*«. "*
♦
\? "
E
No. 97 of Vol. V.]
-.1"
For Amfterdairu
The new faft-failiflf. c<spp«r
jbjr 3L- bottomed SHIP
■MM ADRIAN A,
h K. Fitzpitrick, Maftfr.
BUJLT of live oak and cedar and TO in
tended for z Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or pafiage,
bavins excellent accommodations, apply on
board at WMmxt street wharf, or to
THOS. iff JOHN KETLAND-
K. B. Passengers v,Vi be landed ifl ¥»£*■
land if required.
March 6, 1794. d"
For Norfolk Iff Fredcrteksburgh^
John Earl, Master.
A Haunch good uctfcl, will fail in a f»»
day*. For freight or p ITage, fcpply to tK«
milter on board at Chefijui street wharf, or
JOSEPH ANTWXr y SOX.
March 31.
"For Sale or 'Charter,
ANDROMACHE,
'yt&S&P' (An American bottom)
Jobn Moorty Majfyr.
IS a ftour good veflel, abom two years »M,
bnrthcn 232 ton.-, has only made three voy
ages, a«>« may be ent to Tea at a small ex
pence Sne way fe» Iffin at w«a=rt,
3ijd the terms made K'»«wn bv application to
WHARTON LEWIS.
Mar b -?i. d.tf
Jaft Imported,
In the Ship Apoflo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amtterdam, and now lading
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GiN mfrpes,
A few bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Qvutburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Clefs Ware, t)ii. Tumbler! and Mugs, va
rious Jtz,J s.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, ftptare and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Duicb Great Coats,
A y wmtitj of Junk end Oakum, &e, V<i
FO*. Sits »Y
THOMAS KETLAND, Ju».
The abovc^nvntioneriShip is for &tfle-r*-
(houldapplication be made within a few days ;
otbervuifc she will take freight for /Unjler
dam.
March l, 1794.
WHEREAS an slics fubptrna has rffued
out of the Supreme Court of this Con.
tntinwcfUb, »l ibt lit t of M,ucaket Evahs,
upon a petition prcleued by the faict Mabg>.
11 IT, praying lor 3 Divorce Iroin the bonds ot
Matrintony, entered into with Roe c «t IVjic.
This 11 to give notice to the fatd Robert, that
he be and appeal at thr said Supreme Couri, to
be held at the City of Philadelphia qn Monday
the seventh day of April next, jt the Suie-Hoofe
in the bid City, to answer the matters alleoged
in the bid petition.
Wm. CHAPMAN.
Sheriff of tyucks C* untv.
March 5, ,794.
To Rtbeit toons.
George Bringhurft,
QOACH-MAKER,
1 In Mqlhprry {\rch} between Fourth end fifth
Streets, adjoining the gpifcopal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requjftiqg tiltir future favors, 94 well as
thole of" the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
lhoi test notice, all kinds of pleaftire carriages,
such aseoache;, charints, phselons with and
without crane necks, coachee?, cbaifej, kitto
reens, wmdfor fulkeyjjtcd chaijs, and Uamefs
of every description, in the neatest and newest
fcrhi.m now prevailing in the United States.
And as hehasaquantity of the feeft seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, be has
not the least dogbt but he will be able to jive
fatUfacfionto thole Who please to employ |,iin
Ifehts for sale, several carriages altjioft
ftnimed, such as eoachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel I'pring., a ligl-t phaeton for
*** •• two horses, and *.ftilkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Conuniffioa.
Pbiiwielytriajan. .794, in&th}m
' ' * '■
■»-
« . V-C.
vening adv
; Friday, April 4, 1794.
IMPORTED
In the Jfrig George and Harriot, from
Havre de Grace 9
AND FOR SAI.E BV
Louts Q[mont y
a pratECT
Affortmeot of Hanging Paper,
high enloured and plain.
White fi!k Stocimgf, high drelftd »"»d put
up Poglifli fj(kioiv
The baodfumeft arti&cial flu w « r s aud Fea
thers.
Some Lookiog GloA f lau>< to bo {bid by the
cal'e.
A few hamper; of Ghampaigne wine fix
yean etd.
ALSO,
Art tUgantpartel »f
Bearlkin MuiFs,
And very beautiful s : 'k Clocks, which on
account of the season will Ibid ? au<l at
a long credit'
Lizzm§z
42 pipes Madeira wine,
and a few cafe* of" Claret.
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns.
\a 4 few Days,
Hi will have far sale,
A GfNER4V 4SSPRTNE.NI OF
White and Black Laces,
Leghorn h»ta, f«-,s caisoricks, ela«i in
cases, a quantity of gluts well sort
ed at all fee', and s few pair of ramarkrtbie
LooJciug Glailes flamed, »H arrived at Nor
folk, ■»<> eoining rottr>4-
Vj»rch 4tf
The Admirers of Sacred Music
rc iy intoinM^) } that Oi e 91 luore
Pprtorrraocos frory; the m<)ft approved
Parts of Handel's Works,
Irom the AJeiliali) wiU he given
in (he week preeecißg Easter Sunday, (cum.
many called Pafiion week)
A every ability in the Jufttumeirtal and
Vocl Line Will be eaiied forth "U this oecafi
on, there i» qo doukt, but thUt a J,iber»l P*b
lie Will take the prefeut undertaking under
their proteAior.
N. B- Part of the Promts wiU be appropri
ated to the use of a public charity.
A particular d«fcriptipn of the Place, Se
leftiau,£tc. will be given as soon as the neces
sary arrangements car) be fettled.
March 29, (its
NO RRIS. eOU RT,
Back of the Js'ew L.jivy, between Chefnut
and Walnt i- Streets.
George Rutter,
T> nforms his friends and
Ja. the ptlhlie in general, that be continues
carrying on the bufuiffsof
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PL A.TES,
for doors or wmdow-fbuttersjdont ia pie most
elegant manner, and with djtyatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December Jo, dtf
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality ps the United States.
All commifltons or authprijations tending to
infringe that neutrality, irp revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the Freach
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventqfe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indivisible
( March 6th, 1794, o. s.)
The Mimjter Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH, FAUCHET.
The Editors of newspapers within the
United States, are requefled to reppblifh the
foregoing notice.
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, JAPANN'D
PLATES, &c.
Done in the moll elegant manner, and after
thefirft masters ; likewile,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finiihed at the ftortf ft notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Nprris's Court, haclf of the New library,
between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth streets,
March 4. dtf
AND
PROPOSALS
For Printing bj $übfcriftiqn,
An Original Novel,
In Four Volumes, duodecimo,
Dedicated, by Ptnniffigit, to Mrs. Binghani,
ENTITLED,
Trials of the Human Heart.
By Mrs. RQWSQN,
Of the New Theatre, Pfriladflpliia, Antl"""
of Vi&oria, inquilitor, Charlotte, Fille
ii Chambre, See. &c.
u —r-» If there's a pmr'r above us,
" (Ami that there is, all Nature cries ait>utl
" Tbrq' all her works) he roust delight in
'• virtu*,
• " And that which he delights in, must be
" happy."
" T';a lout, fecur'd in her existence,fmilas
'» At tfee drawn dajger, & <Jei*s its poiot"
CONDITIONS.
I. Tli# work to be printed with a neat type
»n good piper,
IJ, Price to fuhferibers s oar dollars bound,
on -' half to be paid at the time of fubferibing.
111. The (nbfci ibers' names will be prefixed
»s patrons qt the undertaking.
*»* Subscriptions are received by the .Au
thor, the Corner of Seventh and Chefnut
{Ireets, MelTrs. Carey, Rice, and Dobron,
Philadelphia— Mr. Cieen, Annapolis—iMef
fs. Allen, Berry, and S. Campbell, New,
York—Mdfrs. Welt, Thpmas *qd Andrews
B ate, and Larkin, Bolton—Mr. Hal'well,
V.-r.aqnt—MelTrv Rice, and Edwards, Bal
timore—Mr. W. P. Young, CharUdon.
April 2. mw&f3w
TO BE SOLD,
And entered upon the tirft o< May,
The noted called
Jobnfon Hall:
Lyiug in the Mohawk country, ftateofN#w
YqiH» lonperly tb* ffat of $ir Willow Jpho
fon, frven hundred acres of
laud, v/hich is of the very beft.qu*lit,y ; toge
ther A-iih the stock, and farming uienfils. The
buHdings pre large and convenient, and fit for
a gentleman's feat. The payments will be madp
easy, on good fecprity, for further partictriar?
enquire of George Metcalf, Efa, oo the premis
es, of Silas Talbat, Esq. at Philadelphia, of
Samuel Ward and Brothers, in New York, qi
of the (übfcnhtr in Providence.
Jabez 80-wen.
Philid. March 26 m»4ihm
Excellent CLARET,
In and >n cases of oottlcs each.
also,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
Iu pipes, hogQieads and .quarter calks,
FOIL S ALB Br
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. ||i, Sovtb Ftoui (ticei.
Jan. g, 179 4. dtf
FOR SALE,
BY WATHEW CAREY, No. nB,
Maiket-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery,
Deligned to exhibit in a new pqiijt ot view
its effects on morals, indujlry, and (he peace of
focitly. Some tadh and calculations are offered
tp prove (tie Ifbor offreemen to be much more
prtHtuflivt tbin that ot Jlaoes ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the (ruits of their own
labor ; and hcuce the ncctffaiy conclusion, that
flawsry '«inptltft( as well as *njnfl,
P*iCt 2f Cents.
February 15. dtf
The following Certifi
cate of the fpp*Jed thrse per Cept Stock of the
Donieftic Debt of the United Stares ftaudingon
the books of the Treasury of the said United
States, in the names of Donnald and ikirtoo of
London, and figped by Joseph
NQUife, Register of said to vyit :—
Nq. gated 24 h August 1792 for 29,59
dollars and cents v*as tianfmitted from Lon
don io the feip Peter, Paui Hu(fey, mailer,
bnvyid for New Yorjc, and hi# been loft.-*-
The Subscriber intending \o apply tQ {hp Trea
sury qf the United States to have the fame re
newed , defiics all peif<*ns who are interefied in
the said certificate, to make thrir obje&iom
thereto, ;f any tte* b?vr.
Francis Macy.
Philarl. March J7, (J6\»
CCJ" This Gaat/i* Jballbt enlarged, at it
receives einaurag emeut—7iu Subscription
enerenfes daily—Atkjertifmg Favors are
fdicited —Tbefe conßiiute an eJfttiiloJ Item
in dimini/h : n« tb: Dibit fide of ibt Aictw.t.
ER T I
E R.
S
[Whole No. 556.]
Extracts from the Couriers Politique, and
thf Departments.
National Convention and Clob of Jacobins.
A deputation of the fe&ion of Quinze
vingt, invites the society not to ljiten to
the denunciations which are made to it
against Botirdpn de L'Oife.Fabred'Eglan
tine, and Cammille of du Moulins. It
declares that all good citizens will haste to
take their part against intriguers.
This feftion gives great piaifc to Rou
fm and Vincent.
Robespierre fays, «We are not to em,
ploy ourselves here concerning private
quarrels between the members. The pub
lic papers are going to Jhew to all Europe
that these great successes, which ought to
have raised you totheikcnmitof enthusiasm,
have made so little impression on voujthat
you have done nothing but continue the
•uHe debates of thefittings of OSober.
" Pitt in his fright," thought that it
was all over with the abominable league of
kings, that the Jacobins were likely toeon
quer and make good use of their victories,
fcy endavouring to exterminate all tyrants
who have escaped from the vengeance of
the people; but he will have cause to re
joice When he learns, that if there is any
place where the successes of the Republ; ■
not produced any effect, it is in the
very club of the Jacobins.
Citizen Mamien sent details relative to
Bourdeaux, and the dispositions which
reign there ; he was not then fufficiently
acquainted with the circumllances.
The pieces performed in the patriotic
theatres are listened to with eoolnefs.
Couthon in the National Convention, »
" There are now only 30 millions in af
fignats in the national treasury : There
have been burnt ipo millions livres in af
fignats."
Letter fronj Garreau and Moneftier of
Bayone—" The arrangements which we
have made have disquieted our enmy. The
western army is worthy of the Republic."
lierault de Sechelles has been accused
for having had connections with fufpe&jd
men, such as Prolly, Dn Buiffon, and Pa
reyra.
Club of Jacobins A letter from St.
Quentin denounces the furnifhers of the
waggons, and adds, " the roads as far as
Guise are covered with horses who died
for want of food, and it is, in Ihort, im
poflible to get along.
There are new troubles in the depart
ment of Cherburg—the rebellion must be
smothered in its craddle.the effects must be
dreadful—La Vendee is now a ftrikingex
ample.
Convention.—Le Clere who arrived frora
Toulon fays the arsenal is not damaged,
that all the workiug materials have been re
moved to a place of security by a courage,
ous citizen, on whom the nation should
bettow mugh praise.
Le Va(Teur fays so great is the merit of
the men truly born for the happiness of
the people, that they (till serve their coun
try, even after they have ceased to exist.
Marat who well knew Dugomrriier ceased
not to recommend him to the patriots,#:it
was Dugommier who directed the plan of
the attack of Toulon ; therefore it is Ma
rat, who even after his death contributed
to the recapture of Toulon.
Le Clerc attributed these successes to
Robefpi-rre, who so energetically under
took the defence of Barras and Defreron,
basely calumniated,by the tribunal of the
National Convention, by which he pre
served them for the nation.
Jacobin Club.-—The society passed to
the examination of its members. Dubois
Cranee demanded that every person who
wished to be admitted ipto the fpciety
should firft be asked* " What haft thou
done to merit hanging, in cafe a counter
revolution fhouldhappen V'
Many members propofeddifferent means
on this fuhjeft, but they were all put ?fitje,
by the order of the day.
Irpfee, representative of the people*
was wiled upon to undergo his examuia
*(ion, for entrance into tfce society. He
declared Kc was a farmer. ii,
Dufourny commended what Ifore liad vc
done as an example to other formers. A
Collet D'Heibois rofi, and {zrd,— w
That being fellow commilTioner wish Ifore, cc
1 lodged with him in a thatched house that m
was on his far (A. The wife ot Ifore itind- tl
ly received me, and I partook of the bed tl
of this eftimabie wile." P
(The jeiters. who every where inifcon- p
ftrue words, set up a laugh, and applauded tl
Collet.) Collet refused his difcoarfe, and ft
said, " You have put a. meaning on my g
wbrds, which I did not mean to convey, i o
meant to express, that fier bed was com- p
posed of two mattrefles, and (lie gave me r
one of them." 1
Simon announced that the two reports c
of Robespierre, one on the toleration of re- a
ligions, the other on the preservation of 1
the treaties with the allies of France, have d
excited a happy difpolition, so that the g
Swiss arc wholly ditpofed to adopt our go- r
veru merit amongli themfeivca, with the ne- j
ceffary local modiiications- i
Simon also read a memorial of the z
English court to the Helvetic cantons, i
to engage them to break with l'rance.— j
That court invites the Swiss to call to mind f
the former friendlhip and treaties which
have always united France to the thirteen i
Cantons. In the memorial was also read (
— 1 " Call to mind that France is covered i
with the blood of your brethren maflacred i
the lOth of Augufl, for defending Louis <
16th, the friend of the Swiss. Will you ftrll ]
longer hold alliance with robbers and as- i
faiins. Tliey except you from other na- ]
ti()ns —hut this predilection is an injury.— i
The French at prefer.: with to secure all
property. Be doubtful of a nation who ,
has no longer either a God or laws." I
[n lpite of George 3d the Swiss remain I
up'haken in their neutrality. _ >
The Committee of Public Safety said 1
lit the convention, " Will you baffle thema
noevivris of the connter-revolutionilts em
ployed to excite religions quarrels ? Will
you make refpecHd the decree of the lix
teentli of Frimaire, for permitting the quiet
toleration of religion r Then forbid the ope
' ra theatre, and all others to represent the
piece entitled the Fall of Importers, and
the Inauguration of the Temple of f ruth,
together with all other pieces which may
have the fame tendency, to ridicule religi-
ous vrorlhip.
For the Gazsttk of the United States.
MR. Fsnno,
The American people have formed their
just and.equal government, and have hi
therto condu&ed their national interests,
with such prudence, firmnefs and sense of
the blefiings which real liberty confers, as
to he a fair example to the whole world.
The principles which have been cheri(hed,
and the measures generally pursued by
the mass of the people, and those whom
they have entrusted with the management
of their affairs, clearly evince that they are
an enlightened people. They are not very
fit fubje&s therefore, for designing and
ambitious demagogues to practise upon
with success : they understand their prin
ciples too well, and are too firmly persuad
ed of the advantages of a government by
fair and full representation, to barter them
away upon the suggestions of felf-created
centinels of liberty, who attempt to ac
quire an improper influence, by a pom
pous display of wordy patriotism. 1 trust
it is in "vain, that certain turbulent indivi
duals organize themselves into Democrati
cal societies as they are called, act in am
bitious concert, and attempt to usurp an
influence over the public mind, which they
cannot hope to obtain if the people are left
to their own reflections and unbiassed de
cisions with regard to men and measures.
An undifcerning multitude, just emanci
pated from a cruel despotism and aristo
cracy, may require perhaps such' inltitu-
before they are matured in the .prin
ciples of rational liberty ; but they suit
not a people acquainted with those princi
ples from their birth, and by long experi
ence eltablifhed in a predilection for a Re
publican government by representation.
However, as the most unfair means and
themqft forward pretentions are exeicifed
and displayed at present to mislead the
public mihd, it is the duty of those who
feel an attachment ta real liberty and genn
int repullicanifm, to strip off the malk from'
pretended patriots, to avow thair senti
ments freely, and withstand the ufuipa
tions of a combination of men not delega
ted by the people, who pretend to speak
fn their name and assume their rights.
These pemocrate whilst they retail prin
ciples as excUifively theirs, Vrhith are uni»
verfally adopted by the free citizens of
America, arrogantly claim a superiority
which is bv no means allowed, or even ,
compatible with their pretentions to de- 1
mocracy, and insidiously call in queltion
the republiGanifm of those who' differ from
them in certain political measures, and el
pecially with thole, who "have acquired the.
public confidence, and are employed in
those important trulls so which they them
ielves aspire. Hence those repeated char
ges of aristocracy, and repeated complaints
of " the amazing wantof Republican
principles and co;iuu£t of our official cha
racters. Hence all those political affecta
tions that are forming under foreign auspi
ces, in various parts of United States,
and those political machinations which are
ierioufly moved to drfturb that fettled or
der of things in which the virtuous citizens
generally hud the repose and sweet enjoy
ment of liberty, after the toils and drag
gles endured in its edablifhment. It is
not liberty, but faction which organizes
and dire&s such democratic combinations ;
it is not virtue, but felf-intereil which
prompts the ambitions directors of these
fuparnumerary machines of freedom.
fn the General Advertiser of yetterday
morning, a writer who aflumes the ridi
culous and unmeaniug title of an Ameri
can Sans Culottes, pompously asserts what
no freeman denies, that " the government
of a republic, is the government of the
people, and tins government which is to
represent their interests and feelings is to
have no other rule of conduct than the ge
neral will."
refutations of the Democratic
Society of Charleltorj, published also yef
ertlay morning in the fame paper, we
ind the following feiJtiißsatfs stated with
is much warmth as if they were actually
:ontroverte<3 and threatened with arinihila
:ion : " the people of America know, that
rovernment was made only for them, they
inow that all power in the legislative and
;xecutiue j>jrt of government proceeded
from them ; that th y have not parted with
fheir freedom, by entrusting a portion of
power to a few individuals, and a right to
investigate the conduit of < hose whom they
have authorued, &o. This dodtrine 13 all
very true, and all the question is, who are
the people ? Are they a few felf-ereatedv
felf-interefted members of certain poFitical
clubs, or the mass of citizens throughout
the United States, who hare chosen by a
fair and free election,. Representatives to
appear in their behalf, and a£t in their
name? If the latter statement be the truth,
who are the former ? And what must we
think of the candor, the modesty, the
truth of those who declaim against " s
want of republicanism in characters com
poling the highelt offices in the Federal
Government; ariftocratical pride and mis
taken ambition or of those who afTert,
that " it is' discordant to the sentiments
of some of our politicians, that the peoph
ought to regulate the proceedings of go
vernment and that measures in which
the people of America are universally a
greed, meet with opposition from some oi
their Representatives ?
When these men can (hew that a part
is greater than the >vhole, or that a few
individuals combined in party circles thro
the continent, are better entitled to re
gard, as the organs of the people, than the
men elected by that very people, we may
admire their, dexterity, but we ought to
fufpedt their ingegrity. I think they mult
have imbibed the spirit of the SansCulottes
at Paris, mentioned in Moore's Journal,
who said, "The National AfTcmbly ought
o obey our dictates','* (meaning the mob
)f Paiis) " since they are only the Repre
entatives of the people, whereas tve are
he people ourselves." On the contra-
I, and many thousands of my fellow-citi
zens fully agree with the following decla
ration, recorded by Dr. Moore, whict
the President of the National AfTembl]
made to a democrat, who took upon him
felf to ast in behalf of the people ; " Un
doubtedly the people is sovereign, but tlii
Fovereignty is in the whole people, and not
n any separate part, and cannot be exerci
cd, but by the Representatives of the
vhole nation.
A Friend to a Representative
Government.
* Seethe No-breeches-writer in the Ge-
neral Adven'ifer of April 3.
For tie Gazette of
A Hint to the Demo. Societies.
Those Gentlemen will pleale to recollejft
that the good people of this country (whom
they wilh to awe into measures which would
bring on the of all property, and
a dSfolution of every moral obligation,) have
got the example of France before their eyes;
the* knqw that France owes all her diftiac
tions to the too lenient measures pursued by
that class bf citizens wh6, whiHt tlicy yet re
tained fufficient influence and authority to
Item the torrent of wickedness, lpared the
men who had plotted the deltru&ion of thfin
felves and property, in hopes tune might
throw up some change which would open
the eyes of thit hardened let —tne event
proved the fallacy of their hopes ; the unre
lenting villains thirsted for their blood, and u '
under the pretence of treaion, every man ot co
worth and property has fallen there ; wirnels fi<
Lyons, witness Bourdeaux and Marseilles. tr
Ye know that if ye had timely difpoled of pj
j your internal enemies, you had exilted yet; K
l none but the wicked are now found in your
places. They may be fuffered for a feat'on
for the wife ends of Providence, but he will «
in a moment speak them into eternity—all as
nature demands a riddance of. them, and the fh
period is not far distant, when France fliall r y
be tranquil. You who have fallen the un- . J
happy vifti-ns of their infernal rage, (hall
give a profitable example to mankind. A- I
mericzL is upoiiher guardy she will bewure "111 j
time, she will not neglea the critical mo- ai
ment. C
LAW OF THE UNION.
THIRD CONGRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES, a]
AT THE FIRST SESSION, 01
Begun and held at the city of Philadelphia, p
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Monday V i
the second of December,one thousand f:
feve!n hundred and ninety-three. b
An ACT making appropriations for tie
support of the Military EJiabliJbment of the 0
United States, for the year one thousand
seven hundred and ninety four.
T> Eit enaded by the Senate and °
Sec. I. J3 tioufe of Beprefentatiix.s of the n
United States of America, in Cougrefs affem- o
bltd, That for the support of the military f,
eftablifhrAent of the United States, for the
year one thousand seven hundred and hinety t
four ; for repairs and articles directed to be
made and purchased by the Prtr.dent of the £
United States; for invalid peufioners ; for *
fortifying, certain ports and harbours ; f
and for tlie,purc>afe of cannon,, implements f
and (hoti there be appropriated a turn of mo- c
uey not exceeding one m llion, fix hundred a
and twenty nine thousand, nine hundred and j
thirty fix dollars, and one cent ; .hat is to
fay ; For the pay of the legion of the United '
States, three hundred and three thousand, fix *
hundred and eighty four dollars : For sub- c
fiftance, three hundred and twelve thousand i
five hundred and sixty fevsn dollar? and fe- ,
I ventv jive cents : For So. age, thirty one thou- .
sand, fix hundred and thirty two dollars: (
For clothing, one hundred and twelve thou
sand dollars: For equipments for the caval- '
rv, f ven thousand, three hundred and iour- 1
teen dollars, and five cents : For horses for
the cavalry, sixteen thousand dollars: For
bounty to the soldiers, five thousand dollars:
For the hospital department, twenty thousand
dollars: For the ordnance department, fix
thousand seven hundred and fifteen dollars,
and thirty two cents : For defenfive protec
tion of the frontiers, one hundred and thirty
thousand dollars : For the Indian department,
fifty thousand dollars : For the quarter mas
ter s department, one hundred and fifty thou
sand dollars: For contingencies of the war
department, thirty thousand dollars : For re
pairs and articles direaed to be made and
h purchased by the President of the United
i- States, two hundred and two thousand, seven
)f hundred and eighty three dollars, and thirty
iour cents: For invalid pensioners, eighty
thousand, two hundred, and thirty nine dol
lars, and fifty five cents : For fortifying cer
v tain ports and harbours of the United States,
and purchasing the lands neceflary for the
e- ereaion of the fame, seventy fix thousand
ie dollars : For the purchase of cannon, imple
v ments and (hot, ninety fix thousand dollars.
0 Sec. z. And be it further enabled, That
,i the several appropriations herein before
1 made, (hall bf paid and' discharged out of
e8 the funds following, to wit; Firll, the surplus
il, of the sum of fix hundred thousand dollars,
tit reserved by the aa '' making provision for
>b the debt of the United States," and which
e . will accrue during the year one thousand fe
re ven hundred and ninety four : Secondly, the
surplus of revenue and income, beyond the
"7 appropriations heretofore charged thereupon,
;i " to the end of the year one thoaland and se
a- ven hundred and ninety four : And thirdly,
;h the surplus which may remain unexpended,
]y of the monies appropriated for the life of
n _ the war department, in the year one thou
fanp seven hundred and ninety three.
Frederick Augustus Muhlenberg,
IIR Speaker of the House of
ot i Representatives.
ct- John Adams, Vice-President of the
he United States, and President
of the Senate.
Appro ved—March the )
twenty firft, 1794 5
Go. Washington, President of the
re- United States.
An ACT to prohibit the carrying on the
Slave trade from the United States ts any
foreign place or country.
Sec. I. T) Eit enaP.ed by the $eifate and
Jj Houfi of Reprefenlaiives of
the United Statet of America, in Cer.grefs
'tjtss.
'nit so
ajjemhhdi, That no cit:zea or citizens of
the United States, or foreigner, or any
other person coming into, or residing
within the fame, (hall, for himfelf or anv
other Person whatsoever, either as master,
fa£tor or owner, build, lit, equip, load ur
otherwise prepare any (hip or vclTel, with,
in any port or place of the ftid United
States, nor (hall cause any fh'p or vetfel
to fail from any port or place within the
fame, for the purpose of carrying on any
trade or-traffic in slaves, to any foreign
country ; or for the purpose of procuring,
from any foreign kingdom, place or coun
try, the inhabitants of fisch kingdom,
place or country, to be trafported to any
foreign country, port or place whatever,
to be fold or disposed of, as (laves : And
if any (hip orvefTel (hall be so fitted out,
as aforefaid, for the said purposes, or
shall becaufed to fail, so as aforefaid, eve
ry such (hip or vessel, her tackle, furui
ture, apparel and other appurtenances,
(hall be forfeited to the United States ;
and shall be liable to be seized, prosecuted
Ind condemned, in any of the circui
:->urts or di drift eudrt for the diftritft,
vhere the said ship or vefTel may be found
ind seized.
Sec. 2. And (>:■ it further cnaclcd, That
ill and every person, so building, fitting
>ut, equipping, loading, or otlierwiie
>reparing, or fending away, any (hip or
I'fTcl, knowing, or intending, that the
me shall be employed in iuch trade or
:Arfinefs, contrary to the true intent and
neaning of this ast, or any aiding
ar abetting therein, (hail severally forfeit!
ind pay the sum of two thousand dollars,
one moiety thereof, to the use of the Li
nked States, and the other moiety there
of, to {he use of him or her, who (hull sue
for and prr.fecute the fame.
Sec. 3. And be it further evaSel, That
the owner, mailer or factor of each and
every foreign (hip or vefTel, clearing out
for any of the coafls or kingdoms of A
friea, or fufpefted to be intended for the
Have-trade, and the nifjvcion being de
clared to the officer of the customs, by
any citizen, on onth rr affirmation, and
such information being to the fztisfsftiou
of the said officer, fhaU fir ft give bond
with fnfficient sureties, to the Treasurer
of the United States, that ncne of the
natives of Africa, or any other foreign
country or plauct*, ilual! tu: o? bu^rd
the said (hip or veffei, to be tra ifported,
or fold as (laves, in any other foreign port
or place whatever, Wtlhiti nine months
thereafter.
Sec. 4. A die it further enaSed, That
if any citizen or citizens of the United
States shall, contrary to the true intent
and meaning of this ast, take on b.>ard,
receive or transport any such f erf ins, as
above deferibed, in this ast, for the pur
pose of filing them as slaves, as afo efaid,
he or they shall forfeit and pay, for each
and every person, so received on beard,
transported, or fold as aforefaid, the sum
of two hundred dollars, to be recovered
in any court of the United States proper
to try. the fame : the one moiety thereof,
to the use of the United States, and the
othe moiety to the use of such person or
persons, who (liall sue for and prosecute
■ the fame.
Frederick Aug ustusMuhles berg,
Speaker of tlie House of
Representatives.
• vv r -
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United States, and President
of the Senate.
Approved—March the |
twenty-second, 1794. j
Go. Washington, President of the
United States.
■■ f f'lf'lll* 1 "
Congress of the United States.
Houje of Reprefentaiivet
Thuobfervations of Mr. Smith of South-
Carolina, on the palling of the bill for
the naval armament.
Mr. Smith remarked that though it
was not probable any proselytes were to
-be expected at this late period of the bu
siness and after so ample a difcuflion as the
question had received in its different Itages,
yet he coniidercd it neceflary to make a
reply to feme of the various objections
which had been just made to the paffinj*
of the bill. Many of those objections
appeared to him totally inapplicable to
the subject ; thole he thould pas» over in
lilence. If it were the design of the
houte to incur a v»ft 'eKpence in the eita
blifhinent of a navy, merely for the Mie
purposes of vain parade, there would be
mi -*■ ■ \*
force in fbtne-of the objections, but as this
was not the cafe, and as the measure was a
meafui-e not of choice but of netjeffity ex
torted by the prefliire of unavoidable e
vents; he did not Feel their force m any
* refpecL The question was simply whe
' ther our commerce required protection a
rrainft the Algcrine coriairs, and whet her
tiws was the bed mode of protection.
The iirft part of the question was admit
ted on all fides; for himfelf, he had always
considered the frcond equally clear, but
ill the course of the difeuffion,_ various
divEcoltie. had been started againlt the
mode of protection, and various iublti
wtes had btw proposed, as offei ing a i e
medy more prompt, more effectual and
Ms expeafive. He would firft confide*
' the proposed substitutes for a naval araia
mait, and then answer the objections to
; t . The fubiiitirtes were—l. I<> PjJJ r
chafe a peace of the Algerines. 2. To
depend on Portugal breaking her truce
wuh Algiers and (hutting up their crm
z<as within t Lie itreights. 3. To pass
cnramiercial regulations againlt Great Lu
tain. 4. To lubftdize other nations to
Dvutect our commerce. 1 o these ieveral
fobftitutes he might in a. few words objeCt
that the Grit was impracticable, tjielecond
precarious, the third inoperative, and the
ftxurth dithoiioraole. But he would more
in detail evince their futility by a few ob
tervations.
I ft. With .efpeft to the puichafe of a
peace, the hire commuhic-tions mull la
tisfv everv one who had attended to them
t" it ail hope on that score mutt be aban
doned, Wets there was a manifeftatton of
some force or. the part of this country
whichmijht gi.ce.Tcit to pacific negotia
tions. As long as our veflels were so easy
and so tempting a prey to the cupidity of
tho£e rovers, tt would be 111 vain to expect
that they would fell a peace, for any thing
like the price which the governmeftt would
be willing to givft or that a peace, even
if effected, would be of any duration.
If the executive formerly experienced such
dHficnlties when the Algerines had captured
cniv one or two ot our vefle'.s and their ciui*
zers were confined to the Mediterranean by
the Portugese i'qtudron, how much leis
prospeCt was there of success after they had
captured a considerable number of our (hips,
were likely to capture many more and were
zi liberty to cruize in tire Atlantic, even to
O'jr very coasts : An«i that little prospect of
C ~ s fect*fc , w««M'be-«iia*>mfl>ed when the DeyotU.
Algiers lhoirkl ondeiftand that we took 110
. measures to protest our trade, and were afraid
of the expence of a small armament. Even
a peace be purchased, the temptation
to break it would be to great that we ought
not to expe<£t it would be long observed. But
if the Bev knew that we had some naval
ff.~CE.gth, and were resolved to proteCt our
trade, he would nad his account not only in
waking peace with us, but in main tailing it. j
1. To rely on the chance of Portugal
breaking her truce, was putting our com
merce and the liberty of our feamep on a
very precarious footing indeed. It was
irnpoffible to fay how long Portugal might
continue at peace with Algiers ; it had
been remarked that the truce had been ac
complished by the intervention of the Bri
tilh and Spanilh Courts, without the
knowledge or assent of Poitugal, but Mr.
S. was perfuSded the latter part of this
allegation was without foundation ; Por
tugal mud have consented to it, and it was
therefore prob&ble Ihe woiild maintain
peace with Algiers as long as the policy
of the British Court, with whom (he was
cl;».rly conneCtcd, should diCtate.
3. It was proposed to put a Hop to the
depredations of the Algerines by certain
commercial reftriCtiuns aimed at Great
Britain. Admitting, for a moment, the
ultimate efficacy of these reftritlians,
which, like a Panacea, were to cure all
our 1113, the remedy mull be very remote.
These regulations could not pass into alaw
till the feflion clofcd, allowing a moderate
time for their discussion in both houses ;
a dillant period must then be assigned for
their operation in order not to create too
sudden and violent a dillortioh to the
course of trade and to allow a reasonable
time to the merchants to make their ar
rangements ; a certain time must then e
lapse before their effeCt would be felt by
Great Britain, and still further time before
it could be felt, by a kind of re-aCtion,
by Algiers. In the interim the Algerines'
was'd seize our velTels and carry hund
reds of our fellow-citizens into captivity.
4. The lalt substitute was to subsidize
other nations. Besides the national dif
hor.orof depending upon others for that
protection which was in our own power,
Mr. S. said there were several objections to
this projeCt. Either the nations in con
templatiap were at peace with the Regen-
cy of Algiers or they were not: if the
former it was. not to be cxpefted that
they would. relinquijli that peace soY any
iiideinnilioation the United States could
make them. If they were at war they
had fnfficient inducement to check, tlie
depredations of their enemies without our
fublidies. In addition to these objections,
such a protection, would be hazardous, as
it would be at any time in the power of
the nation we should employ, when en
gaged thereto by any power, envious of
our piofperity, to conclude a truce with
Algiers and leave lis at the mercy »f her
' .
Having a navy of our own, we mignt
co-operate to advantage with any of the
powers at pre fen t at war with the Alge
rines but it would be Hiking 1 ' too much to
depend altogether on any of tlism.
(Speech to be continued.)
' '► April 2.
The bill from'the Senate making prov'fion
for the widow and orphan children of Ro
bert Forfyth, Was read a second time and
comr < tted to a committee of the whole houie
on Monday next. , .
Sundry reports on private petitions were
presented and read.
T'ie amendments of the committee ot the
whole to the Foft-Offiee bill were agreed to
by the" house, and further amendments bring
made, it was ordered for a third reading to
morrow. -
The President has ..figged an a£l for eredt
ine and repairing arsenals and. magazines, an
acl for the relief of S. Paranque, and a rc
folve to carry into •effedi the resolution lay
ing an embargo.
; The report of the Secretary at War on
: sixty* petitions was referred to a committee,
* to felea such cases as appear to merit the at
tention of the Legiflalure.
The report on the memorial of General
St. Clair was taken up in committee of tne
whole, and after progrefsthe committee was
discharged, and the bufmefs recommitted to
a feletfl committee.
it was moved, that the President be autho
rized to srrant to citizens of the United States
commifiions of marque and reprifa's agaioit
the regencies of Algiers, Tripoli and Tunis.
Referred to a committee of the whole to
morrow. i
The following motion made by Mr. Clark,
and seconded by Mr. Findley, was laid on
the table for consideration. .
Rejolixd, ' ,
That until the government of Great Bri
tain lhall cause restitution to be made for all
loffcs and damages fufiained by the citizens
of the United States, from armed veflels, or
from any person or persons ailing- under
commifiion or authority of the Britilh King,
contrary to the laws of nations, and ip vio
lation of the rights of neutrality : And a lfo
uutil all the pcrfts now held and detained by
the king of Gre.it Britain, within the territo
ries of "the United States, fliull be fuiTender
ed and given up, all commercial intercourse
between the cit.zens of the United States,
and the fubjefls of the king of Great Britaiii,
so far as the fame refpetts ahicles of the
growth or manufa&ures of Great Britain or
Ireland, shall be prohibited: Provided such
prohibition fnall not extend to veflels or their
cargoes arriving in any of the ports of the
United States before the day of
next. Adjourned.
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 4.
ExtraA of a letter from John Bulkely and
Son of Lilbon, to a merchant in this city,
dated January 25, 1794.
" Regarding the A'igerines, we are ad
vised from Gibraltar, and the ports in the
Streights, that they are all at home, and not
likely to attempt cruizing Huring these rough
1 months, and as this court has not ratified the
treaty, and continue their lquadron in the
: Gut it carries the app arance of their not al
, lowing their cruize to enter the ocean. Our
) Underwriters here offer to insure the ri(k of
captures on American bottoms, coming from
the United States, to the end of next month
1 at 1 1-2 per cent, and the fame on their
" return, with, or without convoy —one is to
> be granted shortly as far as the Canaries, also
r another from Cadiz."
)
; A message was received this day by the
e House of Representatives, from the Presi
dent of the United States, communicating
sundry dispatches from Mr. Pinckney
y our minister at London—and Mr. Hum
e phreys minister at Lilbon—The dispatches
, from Mr. Pinckney relate to, and enclose
s the Britilh Inltru&ions to their Captains
of men of war, letters of marque &e. of
the Bth Janiiary.
e Those from Mr. Humphreys contain
many interesting details relative tp our un
t fortunate countrymen, prisoners in Al
"> g'ers.
o A letter dated Lilbon, 30th January,
from Mr. Humphreys, states, that there
i- is a probability that the truce with Al
gieis on the part of Portugal will not be
renewed, on account of the exhorbitant
demands of the former, the result ot pend
ing negotiations on this business it was
ftippofed, would be known in 15 days trum
the 30th J.'v.rary.
The Court of Portugal has granted .
another convoy to the Ameriean shipping
at Li&on, of which upwards of twenty
fail would be' convoyed on their way tu
the United States, till out of danger from
the Algerines. ' - .
The Preiident's ccmmunicat ion also con
tained a letter from M. Fouchrt, Minilter
of the French Republic, occasioned by the
late report of the Secretary of State relat
ive to ipoliations on the American com
merce by the armed vessels of the Euro
pean powers at war—and an answer of
Mr. Randolph to the fame.—The letters
from Mr. Pinckney, and the Miuilter of
France were ordered to be printed.
% '
Account of the flour Ihippetl-for export
ation at the port of Philadelphia, in the
months cf January, February and March
i ' Barrels of Flour Midls.
Shipped in January 8877
February 6874 lox
March 3»ißi 180
Amount 4793« 381
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April 3.
Extrait of a letter from a ref'pe&able house
at Liibon, to their correfpondeni in this
city, dated January 27, 1794.
1 « Tho' we have lately had both an Eng
lish and Dutch convoy arrive with a good
I deal of wheat, prices have not come down,
nor do we think they will; especially if the
war with France continues, \yhich there is
1 every appearance of. It is ftippofed our mar-
I ket has a supply of grain for about three
I months;—the beft'American wheat conti
nues in it from 560 to 600 reals per alquier—
I and corn from '360 to 420 ; but this lait for
j the present, but little demand, tho' will soon
Ibe in great request; but prices of neither,
J we think, will advance above what we quote,
j Flour continues to be a prohibited article;
I and will only be admitted in cases of great
| necelhty. —The American veflels that are
j now here, government has granted a convoy
I to ; and will fail in 10 or 15 days: and -we
Avail not be surprised to find the, truce with
I -Algtrines not confirmed, and that the
Portuguese squadron again takes its station
I in the Surahs."
I A genuine Copy of a letter from Messrs.
Bird, Savage & Bird, Merchants in '
London; dated London, 11th Jan.
J 17.94, to a gentleman in'this City,
j "Sir,
j " THE alterations are such as mull be
I fatisfa&ory to all parties, and there is now
I no reason to fear a rupture between out
j two countries ; for. though there still re-
I mains an impediment to your ships bring-
I ing the French colonial produce direst to
Europe, as such a voyage would not have
, I been allqwed by the French before the
war, and should only be now to avoid our
Cruisers, it can hardly be complained of,
I if our government impedes it.—The rel-
I triftions not to supply ports actually block
-1 aded, and not to supply the French with
I naval or military Itores are founded on the
I acknowledged law of nations. You are left
1 ot liberty to supply the Islands in all other
I ,refpe£te, which will give you an immense
j trade.—The article relative to the bring
ing in ships loaden with French colonial
produce, the property of French fubjefts,
I is so explicitly worded, that if the captors
fail of proving the property French, they
will be fubjett to cost, damages and demur
rage, which will make them very cauti
-1 ous.
j We are Sir,
I Your humble servants,
BIRD, SAVAGE & BIRD."
*** This letter seems to contradict the
account given in their letter, published a few
I days ago, as to costs, &c. and is this letter
is closed the nth of January, it is probable
the former account was a mistake.
SHIP NEWS.
Kingjlon (Jamaica,) March I.
Thursday night arrived from the grand
I Caynianai, Lieut. Boyne, of his Majes
ty's fliip Convert, with the melancholy
I intelligence, of the loss of that frigate,
j with 'nine vessels of the fleet under her
I convoy, on the north end of that iflaud,
I about 3 o'clock in the morning of Satuv-
I day the Bth tilt, live days after tney left
{ Bluefields.
Captain Martin, of the Britannia, and
five feainen belonging to tiie Co:lvert, pt'-
rifhed iti the eonfulicn, but we have not
heaid of any other lires'being |ojl.
The American sloop Hatlnah, in bal
last, prize to his Majelly's {hip Hound,
,was sent in on Saturday- She was taken
off Cape. Francois, and bound to Tui ks-
Island.
The American schooner Union, prize
to his Majelty's squadron with live itock
and provisions, taken off Tortuga, was sent
in on Monday ;andthe American schooner
Elizabeth, prize to his Majefty'sfhip Her
mione, taken off Cape Nichola Mole with
. lumber.
Alio the Joftph, prize to the schooner
Thomas, taken off Cape Tiburon, with
39 new negroes.
The brig Le Vendeur, prize to hisma
jefty's'fhip Rose, was sent in on Thurfdav;
she was taken in the Mona PafTage, wit'i
three other veflels, aiid mounts 14 guns,
4 and 6 pounders, 8 swivels, and has 105
men on board.
s Prizes sent in
The American sloop Amey, prize to
the Letter of Marque Sallys of N^vv-Pro
vidence. She was from Aux-Cayes, with
a cargo of provisions and gin.
The American brig Sally, prize to the
ship Success arwi Schooner Hawke.
' And the American schooner Polly,
prize to the above -vciTels.
The sloop Phoenix, Capt. Jones, of
Manchioneal, which arrived yefjerday,
brings an account of the iofs of his Majefc
ty'fr schooner Spitfire, lieutenant Rich;
which overset on the 12th inft. at seven
o'clock A. M. off the east end of the ,
island. Four feameh, (the whole sa ved,)
were pieked up by the sloop Saucy Tom,
Captain Edmunfloun. They had been 4
hours in the water,
Jufl: Imported,
In theJhip Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Feterfimrgh in Rujjia, and new landing at
kujjill's ivharf,
HEMP,
BAK IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
RAVENSM)UCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And for sale at the ft- res of the fubicf.ifier in
Walnut street, N'>. ss •
John Donnaldfon.
April 4. riiw w4ott- - f
L-i : . ■ ■
NEW THEATRE.
rim £ vetoing,
Sjpril 4.
•t Will be performed,
A COMIC OPERA, never performed
here, called the
Highland Reel.
(Written by the y [Author of the Poor
' Soldier.)
Liird of Col, Mr. Oreeil
Laird of Raufay, Mr. Warrell
Mr. Gilpin, Mr. Finch
Sandy, Mr. MarfhalJ
Charley, Mr. Francis
Shelty, Mv. Bates
Croudy, Mr. Harwood
Captain Daih, Mr. Moreton
Serjeant Jack, Mr. Darley
Apie, Mr. BlifTett
Benin, Maftsr Warrelt
Maggy, Mrs. Mp.rfhall
Jenny, Mrs. Warrell
Highland Lads and Lafles, Meflrs. Darjev,
jiin. D» Moulin, Let,
Bason, Mrs. Cleve
-1 land, Mrs. De Marque
s Mrs. Bates, Mrs.Finch
Miss. Willems, Mist
Rcrwfon, &c.
To conclude with a New REEL, (Compo
i'ed by Mr. Francis,) by the Characters.
To which will be added,
A Farce, in two Adts, callcd
The Lying Valet.
" Shafp, Mr. Bates
" Gaylefs, Mr. Green
r Justice Guttle, Mr. Francis
e Beau Trippet, Mr. Cleveland
Drunken Cook, Mr. Bliflet
Meliifa, Mrs. Francii
Mrs. Gadabout, Mrs. Bates
Mrs. Ttippet, Mrs. Cleveland
Kitty Pry, (f' r Jl time) Airs. Rowfon
No places can be let in the fide boxes for a
less number than eight, nor any places • re
tamed after the firft a&. .
f- The Doors will be opened at,? o'clock,
y and the perforrtiAnces begin at 6 o'clock pre
e, cilely.
j' 'J he COMIC OPERA,.
v ; The Highland Reel,
Sold icy E- Story, South 4th street,
• .1Ik,
♦
Tift Pm>fits «riftw/nr» publi
cation tfr« for tlfe benefit of the Paqr•
- *'
J'ift pabilihed, printed by R. Aitkc-n and
Sou, and Ibid by ). Cryifiiaok, W. Young
T. Dobfoii) ajid the other Booksellers,
MINUTE S
OF THE I
Preeeedings of the Committee,
Appointed on the 14th September 1 by
the (Citizens of Philadelphia, tlie Nurtiipru
liberties, andthe piftrift of Southward*
to attend to jind alleviate the fiisefi;>£s of
Jhe afHi&ed with ttie Maligoant Fever,pre
valent, in the Citv and its vicinity.
WITH AN APPENDIX,
CONTAINING
A lift of per flirts adm tted into the Hospi
tal at Bufli-hill, (hewing the times of their
aJmiilion, death difehar-ge.
Number of Houfcs, Dsaths, &p. in the
i-eifMpdive streets, alleys, courts in the
c.ty ol Philadelphia, Northern Liberties, and
D*.ftricl of 'South\yark.
A lift of the Intements in the Burial
grounds in the city of Philadelphia, Northern
Liberties, aHd piftrift ps Southward, with a
meteorological account of (he weatbfr.
A (ummary of donations in caih and provi
sions, received from fun ry perfojis and pla
ces, for the uf»of the poor and affii&ed.
April 2. d^w
scheme of a Lottery,
To rci'ife 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, deducting 15 per Cent, from
th? Prizes—tins, Lottery confijls of
, 38,000 Tickets, in <which there are
1 4'J39 Prists and 83,461 Blanks,
fcr\g about one and an half' Blanks to a
Pfizf.
THHe Qireflorj gf iht Sljcicty for eAabiiftmig
X Ufefui having resolved to
cr-e£t LO rTE RIES for Hundred
jTh&u (anb Dollar s, agn eably to an A£t of
tfc? iegitt- »ie ot iljr Sure of New-Jetfay, li-.vc
appointed the following pecfons to
and direct thr drawing of tfie fame, viz. Nicho-
Ij? Law, Rufus King, Herman L« R»y, Jamet
WatH.r., Richard Harrilon, Abijah Hammond,
and Cornelius R? : y, of the sity ol Nrw-Yark —
Thomas Willing, Joseph BaH, Matthew M'Con
ncl and Andrew Bayard, cit (he city of Phila
dflphia —yis E*sellefl(;y Richard Howelli ££q.
Jiliis Boudinot, General El,« LUytqn, Hm.s
Paiker. John Bayard, D Lewis Doirtiara,
Samuel W. Stockton, Joshua M. Wallace, Joseph
BKiomfield, and fclifha iioudinot, of N w-Jer
fry, who offer the followinpSthe-me ps a Lot
tery, and pledge theiiifeivei to the public, that
they W .,U take e.»fr.yi)ff VM n.9c and precaution in
ihtir power to have the Monios paicj hy th«
Managers, from tir?e to time,.as received, into
the Banks at Kew-Vo.k ami. Philadelphia, to
remain sOsf Of the purpofeof paying Priz.t, which
shall be imntrdia'ely difebarged by a check
npon one of the Panics.
. SCHEME;
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollars is 20,000
* W 10,000
. * '' '.?$£ " 1 * 10 ' o^°
5 - ' - 10,060
10,. -a", • 10,000
UMtw..v; «?-•••* .ttfe -O »Mpo
' J| V W.-r 10,000
3°° \ f T • i° ■ »*,ooo
to*>, ,<, * • «*ooo
rtM* — >->> '4'" ' •
3 00 <*
Bte»
12
10
.44>539. W"i. 862,000
Blanks* First drawn number, % x ooo
Laitdrawn number, 9,000
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars cacb is 266,000
The drawing will commence, under the in
fpe&i >n of a Committee of the Superintendents,
to loon as the Tickets are fold,of vyhyjh timely
notice wiW be given.
• The Superintendants have appointed John N
Vummiqg, of Newark, Jacob R. Hardenberg,
of and Jonathan Rhea. o(
Trenton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample security for discharging the
trull reposed in »herT^.
n order 10 secure the punctual payment
«f the Prues, the Superintendants of the Lottery
have d,re£led that the Manager, (hall each enter
into oonds in 4 c,000 dnllars, with four fufficient
securities, to perform their iulliu&ions, the Tub
fiance of which is
r. That whenever either of the Managers
i. n r ,Ve ' kc { * m 01 Th,ce Httndrfd Botlarj,
he mall 1 nundlately place the faine in o«fl oH (he
Banks of Nevv-Yprk or Philadelphia, to the
eiedu ol the Governor of the Society, and such
ot the Superin.endants as Ifve in the city vtwte
(tie monies are placed.tß there until t^ie
,', cr L" drawn > fpt >b* payment of the Prizes.
11. The Managers to take fufficient fepyrity
for any Tickets they may trull, otherwise lo be
♦elponnble fpr them.
111. To keep regular books of Ticfcets fol<j,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
*rl®! °' "h'th (hall be sent, monthly, to the
Ooivetnor of ihe Society. *
Faterfori, January 1, 1794.
On application to either of the abova ge ß t)e.
men, information w«U be given where tickets
may he had.
February 24.
information
Is Requested
By the Editor, of a Mi. William Kiltoo, a
Brick Layer, who went from New-England
and was at Philadelphia l(\ Angufi, ,70}
since whicb time nothing has been heard of
htm—3ve« relief will be afforded to his aged
pirent? and friends, by any intelligence con
ceuiitta hjn—as they arc tearful that be has
fallen In the late general calamity. '
Maich 22.
Philadelphia, IVTarchi, 1794.
.. JUST PUBLISHED,
B/ MATHLW CARE^,
Nq. 11,8, Mffht Jireet,
/"HE FIRST VOLUME QF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography :
OR, A
Geographical, H'tjlorical, and
Commercial Grammar;
An<i prafenl fta.te of* the fevera!
NATIONS OF THE, WORLD.
GONTAip/NC, '
I. Th»! figure;, motions, and distances of
2- A genera! view "t" t ie earth, confitUred
15 a planet; with f_-vcr.:l uK-lyl geographical
(e.iiiitions and problems.
3- The gra'.d divili ins of the globe into
4- The situation and excent of empires,
kingdom;, dates, provinces ard colonies.
5 Their climates, air, fi»il, vegetables,
o(ities, Teas, rivers, bays,capes, promontories,
aud lakes.
6. Th* birtjs and beasts peculiar to each
country.
7. Observations oi( the changes that have
been any where observed upon the face of na
ture since the moll ear|y periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations; thei*
forms ot government, reHgion, laws, reve
nues, taxes, naval and military strength.
9. The genius, manners, customs, and ha
bits of the people.
10. Their language, learning,Srts,
manufactures, and ettf»meF6«.
11. The chief cities, ftru&ures, ruins, and
artificial curiosities
12. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and
distances of principal Philadelphia.
To vikith are added,
1. A QEoqRAtHiCjH, Index, with the names
and places alphabetically arranged.
2. A Table of the Cqins of all nations, and
their value in dollar? and cents.
3- A Chronological Table of remarkable
events, from the creation to the present time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, E/q.
The Aftronomipal Part Corrected by
Dr. Rittenwouje.
To which have been v added,
The late Discoveries of pr. Hjrschell,
and qtlie r eminent Astronomers.
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Co r rcfted, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
The flrft volume oontains twenty-one Maps
and Charts, besides two Altronomical Plates,
viz. „
1. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the worl .
3. Europe. 4. Asia. 5. Africa. 6. South-
Amsrica. 7. Cook's difcaverjes. 8. Coun
ti sound the north Pole. 9. Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway, so. Seve« United Pro
vinces. 11 Austrian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12. Germany. 13. Seat of war
in France. 14. France di vided into depart,
rnen.ts. 15. Switzerland. 16. ItJtly, Sicily,
and Sardinia. 17. Spain and Portugal
18. Turkey in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire
land. 30. Weft-Indies. 2i. Vermont. 22. Ar
miliary sphere. 23. Copernican fyftom-
With the fccorul volume, which is now ii
the press. Will be given the following Maps:
1. Runia in Europe and Ada.
2. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
3§,000
ffl ,000
4- Poland.
5. China.
6, Hindoftan.
■j. United States.
8- British Ameriea.
y- Slate at' Mew-Hiantplbira.
,tx State at Mqijaehufa ,ts,
i;. Stqteof Co.iMiefticut.
12. State of Rhode-Island.
t 3- State of New-York.
j4> State of New-J»r(ey.
15- State df Fenufylvania.
t 6. State of Qaliwufq,
*7. Statfi ps IVJarylwi
18. State of Virginia,
19' State of Kentucky.
23. State of Newth-Caro&Kj.
?.'• Tennessee Govtrnmeijt.
22. State of Soutt*-Qnrolin^ r v
23. Stata of Georgia,
TERMS.
1. This work will be ceraprifed in two' vo
lumes.
2. S.itWccibors fay for th» prefant v«kma w
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing, cents for boards.)
3. They may receive the ftjcreeding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter deUar each, »r elfc, when finilhed, at
tfjft price as the
4. The (übfcnption will be raised on thefirft
day of June 1794, t.O fourteen doltars, ex
clusive of binding.
J. Should anx copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be foM at
fi*te»B dollara, a»d tin price of binding.
6. The names Ojf the fubfcrihers will be pub
lished as patrons of American literature,
arts t and fcienc«s.
It is wholly unneceflary to expatiate on the
advantage,to Amvicnn readers, th»t thisedi
tion polft(Tes l over every imported edition of
any system ofQeography ax tint. Th« addit
tM»»of owfwoftfc fe-waj ftata , procured a.
a very great expcnfe, and from the best ma
terials that are attaiuable, speaks such full
cortviftion on this fubjedt, that it would be
difVefyeft to the reader's understanding to
; suppose it retfuifita to enter into a deta.il of
arguments to prove its. fuperior'Hy. |n no
finiilar work have such maps baeneyer intro
dticed.
The emendations and additions which are
made in this work,are innumerable,and occbj
in every page. The public ast referred to
the preface for a flight (ketch of a few of
thein. ~l i .
The publilher fakes the present oppo: tu
jiity of rptiwuiug his xnoft sincere thinks to
fhofe refp stable charaiS-ers who hive favored
hhn with documents for improving the ma'ps
of fe vera! of the ftatcs. He requests a conti
nuance of their kindness; and hopes that such
public I'pirited citizens, as are poHelled of fi
in lar documents, wjll favor hiji) with their
»ffiftance in perfecting his undertaking.
The extrnordinary encouragement with
which he has been favored, has excited
|n his bread the warjneft sentiments of grati
tude—sentiments which time will not efface,
fie pledges himfelf to the citizens of the
United States, to spare neither pains nor ex
penfe to render the present edition ofGnthrie's
Geography improved, deserving of their pa
tronage. waftf
jnfeK _
.cs, to iWI neither pains ««*..
kenfe to reader the present edition of Guthrie'
Geography improved, deferring of their pa
tronage, ivaftf
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
OF THE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Taken from actual survey, by A. P. Folie,
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
THIS P.an will be engraved on a plate 26
inches Iqujic j and ic will contain an ex
ocl defcripiioi) of all the iquares, streets and
alleys in the City atitjl Liberties. The fttuation
of ihr fevers! public buildings, such as the Staie-
Hoi) e, City-Hall, Scat ut Cojjgrefs, Churches,
Hospital, Lib'raiy and Scmina
rics of Learning—of the several Banks, and ot
the Federal and State Offices, will be ascertained.
The parti which ait built on will be distinguish
ed From those that are not. Thecourfcs ot the
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much the Canal, intended to conned -the
navigation of iticfe two waters, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be accurately
delineated. It will also be ornamented by a
view of the (hipping in the harbor, and an ele
vation of Congress-Hall, and of the other public
buildings that occupy the giound contiguous.
In Ihon, nothing will be omitted to render this
ufeful and desirable work acceptable to an en
lightened public, that is in [he author's power :
and it (hall be compleated with the greatest
polfible dilpatch, as fopu as the generous encou
ragement of fubfcrtbtis (hall insure to the author
such a sum as will be fufficicnt 10 defray cx
pences.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain , n alphabetical lift of
the Subfcribcrs names, and information con
cerning the police, population and present state
of the city.
The price to fubferibeu will be Two Dollars
and one third, t<*be paid at the time of deliver
ing the Plans.
Subscriptions will be gratelully received at
he principal BooJifcHers iu this qitv—and the
jngmal Draft may be seen at B. Davits',
No. 68, Maiket-ftreet, at any time until it 111 all
3e put into the hauds of the Engraver.
Feb m&thif
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE BY
VI. Carey,No. 1 18,Higb-Jirzet,
The PROMPTER;
Iqmmbntart on Common Savings and.
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the bejl sense in the •world.
rHIS little book is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
veil alio all ctalTes of people, merchants, tne
hanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
iork acquired, thai it has patted thro ihrce im
reflions in the eastern ftatej, and many houle
olders deem u f® ufelul as topurckafe a copy
Jr every adult in their families Price as
February 4. <l t ,
J;l J,,
i 1 • ,
■ JAMES LEACH,
RtSPECTIULLY mlouns hit friends .uid
the public, That from the encouragement
he has receded, (mm (evera 1 refpetf able GtmJc-
Bvei), he i» induced once more, to embark in ih«
PAPER would offer ljis ieivi.to
all those Gentlemen, who can p!%ce confidenc
in him; and treasures thole who employ him,
thsu their confidence (hall not be mjfplaced
but it (halt be hia constant endeavor, ro pay the
llri&Lft attention to their best interest, in all ne
g derations whatever. He has taken t|rc Chamber
in StUt.StriH, over Mr. D*vU T»wnfa4, Watch
&ho P—--Wlwtt PUBLIC SECURI-
Tins, of all kjndi, ire bougfrj and lo.d : and
where Commission Bufir«fs B l »U ki»d&, will be
v&m7« on ,, l " CQOab „ le terws " HOUSES and
VESSELS Will be conftaruly expqfed lot faie, on
commraion.
> ,
*»* Calli paid for Salcin, Providence, and
Ponf.nouih BILLS
m. V £\ if ***■ «*■ NtUa&Miir or
W 4 W. &*&■ *
no*— > JMK'»4, ityg.fr
Jufl Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Peterlburg in Russia,
And now landing a» South-flrert Wharf, viz
TTEMP, «i, viz.
n BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN'? DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
ANH FOR SALE BY
March 4,1794.
?/' ? • «.v *'
k* .?* <.. *
mw&frf
John Donnaldfoii,
No. j», WaTniit-ftreet.
diw.itawtf
2
¥ . •!
1 The Public are cautioned to
,C beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills e f
Jhe Bank of the United States, and Tquentj
. Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
„ several of which have appeared in circulation
d within a few days pafl; they are a good ge
■s neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be diflinguifhed by the fallowing
i. MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
h ALL that have appeared bavs the letter F.
j for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
" the gunuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is smaller
than the M. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M would extend con
fideiably above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand closer together than the reft of the bill
The i and fin the word promise are o.ot
parallel, theyinclining much more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the ftr okei
of all the Letters are stronger and the devi e
in the margin particularly ismtich co»i(»r n»d
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
of the counterfeits bear date in l 791 —U'here-
• as the Bank was not in operation till Oeceni
ber, and no five dollar bills were issued in
that year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.
They are primed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the couuterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above (fcferibed ; the engraving is bettei exe
cuted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The line ruled lines through the word 7nr»-
ty) in the body of* the bill, are in number thir
teen in the genuine Ulls, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar B lis as defer ibed a
bove, the. 0 being less than them, and others
following.
There is no stroke to the t in the word Aforth.
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down ta
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and go
ing below th^rn.
The Signature J. Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamp black and
oil, and differs f»oin the other inks used in,
printing the bills and the c-alhicr's denature.
It is fqppofecj these forgeries were committed
in fomc ot the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits that have appeared, have come .from
thence, and two peifoiis have been appiehend
cd npVxfghr.u,TStf fJ fpfcTol» oTf>eTfr£ iKc iiTlftorti
of them.
The reward «f ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Person or >Perfc.n< ih-all
discover and prosecute to conviction the ieveral
offenders of the. iqllowing deienpb os or any
of them, viz.
The peifon or pcrfons, who nunu <i&ured
the paper on which the iitlla are pruned.
1 i»e person or peifons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, ©f (he bills.
Every person who has a£)ed as a pr neipal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter*
the said fejjls. 6 (
THOMAS WILLING* Fr<?fident
of Bink Umt<d
JOHN NIXON, Prefi lent of the
Baok of North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
pe&ive Boards.
Philadelphia, March 28, J794. dtf. 1
Lately Publilhed.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
TNO. 41, Squth Secqno.STB.EET :
HE Hillary of New-Hamplhi™, |, oln [h «
Diicovejy of ihe River P.fcataoin—bv j
rcmiah ttclknnp, D. D. 3 Vols. PriS? in Boards
4 1.2 Dollars. '
The Foriefter, an American Fable, being »
ud to »>> e Hat W oi John Hull the C«Mfew
Free, 75 Cents.
A Dutourfe, intended to commemorate the
Discovery ot America by Chrilt'opher CoWtn
bus; delivered »t the request of the Hidorical
oocieiy in MafTachufetts, October god, , 7Qa
the completion of the Thud
"nee that memorable event. To which are
added, Four Piifertatiom, connected wilh ih*
fubjeil— By the fame author. Price, c 0 Cents
March ty. ""hiijw, '
For Sale by the Subscribers
MUSCOVADO Sugar in hhds.&bbsL
Hyson and Souchong Teas.
Sherry Wines, of superior quality, is pipes
and quarter calks.
Spaljifh Indigo.
Boston Beef, in barrels.
And a small invoice of Muslins.
NALBRO' & JOHN FRAZIER,
No, 164, SoutJi Pfont-ftreet.
Marchß - i'mwA-n-
AN APPRENTICE
Printing Buf,nefs ' Enquire « this
PH.ll/WZLPH~I A :
Priktco by JOHN FENNQ, Na 4,
J»outh Fourth-Street,
' 1