EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 62 of Vol. V.]
PRICE CURRENT. m.Cis. bits. r„.
»•» ttUANHTY.—Dollars ioo Ccnu cjch. Oil, Ditto V T " {e 5°
" —Sweet, bed, m flafks.pr.box 10 5 j
Dirto baskets, 12 bottle* 10
PHILADELPHIA, Teb. 22, 1794* Spermaceti pr. gall. 48
- Train per barrel *0 51
* Dlls.Cts. Dlh.Cts. Whaie 15 33
/\.NCHORS pr.lb. 7 10 Porter pr. callc, 5 33
Alluin, English, pr.cwt. 4 33 l.ondon, pr.doz. v i 60
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 11 American ditto bot.ihcl. 1 81
Ashes, pot, per ton, j Pitch, pr. bbl. 173 2
Pearl, *34 Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 1.5
Arrack pr. gall. 1 33
10 j Lower county 12 I
Brandy, common, 100 r Carolina 10
Coniac *3° IVas, Albany pr. bushel 1
Braziletto.pr. ton. 5 Pepper, pr. lb. 4°
Bricks, pr.M. 4 ' g Pimento 18
Bread, (tip, pr.cwt. 2 ' fcaifin«,.be.fi, pr. kej 7
Ditto, pilot , 4 „ Ditto pr. jar 333
Ditto, ftn»ll water, per * S 3 Dilto , )OX 3 L -j
Beer, American, in bot ties Rj pr . cwt . 3
pr.doz. bottlesincluded, « 71 P ? ?8
Ditto pr. barrel, Rum, Jamaica, pr. gallo» 116
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, »° _
New England >» J4 win Sward 86
1 li 20 24 Barbadoes 87
Merchantable ptne *0 >4 Country, N.E. 6c
Sap, do. '
Mahogany, perfoot 10 Salt petre.pr. cwt. 1433
The above are the ih.illop piices, SallaOas pr. ton 6 8
forthe yard price, add t dol- Shot ditto 140 >4>
lar o 1 ,:cnts per 1000. Steel, German pr.lb. 9
. 2 Englifti,bljftcrcd, pr. cwt. 10
BnmiWe in.oils pr.cwt. » American pr.-ton 11333
li,ef, boston, pe. barrel >° Crowley', pr. faggot .067
Country Ito Snake root pr. lb. 29 42
Frclh, per cwt. d3d 4 Snap, Biown per lb. 6
Butter pr. lb. » whil< . 8
7T'!" k :." s il 3 48 Caltile »i
Candles, Sperm, pr. lb. * 6 Starch ■ 7
ax , ,8 Snuff pr. doi. bot. 4 560
' ! vrl , a * jg Spermaceti, refined, pr. lb. 48
« Mould, tallovr x ° r ' r *
D.pped * 16 Sailcloth,Enghfh,No. i,pr. yard, 40
Chcefe, F.iwltfls, pr. lb. 25 Boston. No. I. ditto 36
Country ™; No. 11. 35
Chocolate ,6 ' Sugar Lump, pr. lb 21
Cinnamon *4° 2 6 " Loal, fmgle refined aa
Clo-es 1 Ditto, double do. 33
Cocoa pr. cwt. 10 ' " . Havannah, white is 14
Coff.-e pr. lb. ,6 Ditto, brown, 10 it
Coal pr. bulhet a 4 3 'l Muscovado. or. cwt. g 12
Copperas pr.cwt. 1b; Spirits Imi pent,lie pr gallon aj
C.<U"'- American, per cwt. 9 >0 3? Salt, Allum pr. bulhel 80
Cocmn 'pr. lb. 2 7 is —Liverpool .00
Currants !°
l)uck.Ru<l>'.i, pr.piece 14 —Lilbon go
Ravens . 11 Shipbuild. W. O. frame! p.ton, 10
Ouich fail dock, ,8 ®° Dilto Live Oak, aa
Feathers pr. lb. 30 Ditto red cedar, per foot 37 45
Fiax ditto 11 12 Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 333 367
Maxfeed pr.hiilh. 80 90 Ditto 2 feet, 650 6
Flour, Superfine pr. barrel 6 6 33 Ditto 3 feet, dreflVd, 13 a S
Common, 56? 6 Maves P.pr pr. rooo 32
Sur.irddlinga.beft J 3 ' W hue Oak hogHiead, *033
_M«),liul'an * i' Red Oak do. 19 5 o
ditto Ayr, 567 '- c °S", n *' 33
__S:.ip-llull pr. cwt. 14° 1 6 ? Barrel 16
FuHU pr- ton, 50 —Heading s 5 33
r . sis, Skims, Otter, best pr. piece 467
Gin, Holland, V .r, cafe, 4 --Minks 440
Do. pr.gall. . 9 Fox, grey 40 80
Glue, pr. cwt. - .< Ditio red 1 80
Ginger, white race, per lb. t- Mar(ins ,
Ditto, common K. ( >,r r , 33 67
Ditto, ground pr. lb. » Bars
Ginseng, Racoons «7 60
Gunpowder, cannon, pr. q.ca , 3 73 4 Mulk-ratj it so
Ditto, line glazed 4 Beaver nr lh 67 1
r ..'.„ Wheat pr. bu(h 100 110 Braver, pr. lb. 07 >33
Re 70 Deei, 111 hair 10 30
Orts 3.5 I"ar,N T . Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 1
Indian corn Caiollna, 32 gall. 2
,g jr | fV 1 * 10 Turpentine pr. bbl. 2
- Bed (helled pr. lb. 7 Tobacco, J. River, best loolb. 4 33
Buckwheat, per bulh. 4° inferior 333
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, Rappahlnnock 3 33
.nerican, pr. ■ ' Coloured Maryland, 333 8
Herring*, P'- bbl - 3 Dark, 2 40
Hides, raw pr.lb. 9 Long-leaf 240
it Vf 1£ " Eaftern-lhore 9 e 73
H„.(head hoops, pr. M. i* Carolina,new > 7 3
Indign, French per lb. » 67 ■ old v 3 33
Carolina t 180 p ca> Hyson pr, lb. 93 128
Irons, fad pr. ton, 133 33 Hyson (km, $3 60
Iroo, Callings pr. cwt. 3 4 Souchong, 50 93
Bar pr.ton, 82 66 Congo, 43 50
P'g 25 Bohea, 33 36
Sheet *73 33 Tallow, refined, per lb. 9
-Nail rods 100 33 Tin pr. box, s 3 33 *3
Jank, pr.cwt. 4 5 Vetdigreafe pr. lb. 60
Lard, hogs pr.lb. Vermillion, do. >33 1
Lead, in pigs pr. cwt. 5 33 5 «7 Varni(h, pet gallon 33 37
in bars 7 Wax, Bees pr.lb. 25 27
white *6 6 ,fia ' e "^ onr '' on S P r *3 3°
foal, pr.lb. W a o , pr. pipe, ,76 «6
30 —-Te.ejift.pr. p....
133 .67 —fJllul Pr " g '"- 'To
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Mola(Te» P T " On London, 8130 days, per £ .ico fterL 466 §
. «oV 463 j
and pi.lb. ,k ° Am fte r d,m, 60 da'y', pr. guilde,. 4 '4'
.i» c< 90 d.;-., 4 o
Oil, » P*' ' g Government bills, drawn at 10 days
Te fight, at 4 %c per guilder.
Ifecfte d # fates
AND
Saturday, February 22, 1794-
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No* 25, Dock-
Street:«—
A few Balcsof RuflTia Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Suuchong TYa, Hyson and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland Giri in Cases,
A Quantity of BiimAonr,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Feb. 20.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths & Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfortnient of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY &CUTLERY,
Which they will dilpole of on the moll rea
sonable terms. Dcvices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and silver
way, done as usual.
December 24.
Philosophical Lectures,
By J. M. RA Y.
FROM Edinburgh, lately from Paris,
teacher of Hebrew, &c. languages, au
thor ot'Comprehenfive View of Philosophical,
Political, and Theological Systems, from the
creation of the world to the present time, &rc.
He will begin this second course of Ledlures
February 27th, at 6 o'clock in the evening, in
the Friends' grammar school room, 4tk street,
and will finifh it in a month.—The idea of i\
was fuggeftcd by some Ladies for the improve
ment of the sex—but it is for both
lexej (of any age above whereby
they will discover a new world in natuie,
concealed from others as a fine country is
from travellers in tht night, and as the light,
and the appearance of nature is from the
blind ; this will be a new scene of enjoyment
and delight, as that of feeing is to one born
blind, and will teach them to acquire the pro
per use of their faculties, as a child does that
of his limbs by learning to walk this will
elevate them to a Philosophical region of sub
lime enjoyments and rational pleasures, as
much superior to the pleasures and amuse
ments of others as a man is to a child in fla
ture, and which will endure the lhock of aJ
verfity, and not forfake them like others, in
affliction and old age ; as the use and end of
all real knowledge k practice and happiness,
this course will tend to promote personal hap
piness, and fit for the duties of society, one
part of it will be on the prefer vation of health
of body and serenity of mind, without which
riches can afford no enjoyment : those whoob
ferved the author's regimen,efcaped the Pesti
lential disease in the house were others died
of it. To begin with an introductory Lec
ture on the great benefits of Phi lo fop by to
human life.
Feb. 19.
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Cojfee-Houfc of this
City :—
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shipf>en-Street, be
tween Third and Fourth-Streets, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmons, which
has lately been greatly improved, and is now
very commodious; where he has turniflied him
felf wilh the best of LIQUORS, and will fur
nifti a TABLE for Parties, with the best provi
sions the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
Ihorteft notice. From his long experience in
this line of business, he flatters himfelf be shall
be able to give fatisfa&ion to all who may plcafe
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 29,1794.
C 3* This Gazette Jhallbe enlarged\ as it
receives encouragement —The Suhfcription
encreafes daily—Advertifmg Favors are
folicited —These conflitute an ejfential Item
in diminijhing the Debit fide of the Account.
As the Editor has repeatedly been
fubjeded to poflage on the Letters of persons %
who have in that -way applied to purchase
the Fount of Long Primer 'which he has
for sale —those who wi/h to buy those types,
are informed that the price is twenty cents
per pound, cafb-—to be paid at their delive
ry—the fount weighs about 250 ft,.
[Whole No. 520.j
PHILADELPHIA, Feb. 22,
In the Supreme CoukT of the Usi-r^
Alexander S. Glass, tsf Appeal from the
Others, appellants, j Circuit court
versus ! for the Dif.
The sloop Betsey and car- s trict of Ma
go, and Pierre Arcade J ryland.
Johaniiene appellee. J
3taw6w
AT a supreme Court of the United
States held at Philadelphia, (the
fame being the present feat of the Nation
al Government,) on Saturday the Bth
day of February in the year of our Lord
one thousand seven hundred aud ninety
four, before the Honorable John Jay,
Esq. Chief Justice, and the Honorable
William Cufliing, James Wilson, John
Blair, and William Paterfon, Efquirej,
AfTociate Justices of the said Supreme
Court, came the parties, as well appel*
lants, as appellee, in the above appeal by
their refpettive advocates ; and after fu!>
hearing of all and Angular, the ma'' tera
and things set forth, and contaiue j; n t j, e
record and minutes of the proceedings, aJ
well of the Circuit Court, f or the Mary
land Diftria, as of t 'h e Diftria Court
; or D# nek in said appeal, and so
lemn argupr ient Q f advocates, be
ing hi"i thereon : the said Supreme Court
<■» \he United States,(fitting and adjourn
ing from day to day) until the twelfth
day of February instant, took the fame
into consideration, and held the fame un
der advisement until the eighteenth day of
February aforefaid.
mw&ftf
At which day the said Court being met
and the advocates aforefaid attending, the
Court proceeded to the publication of their
final sentence or decree, which being read
and filed, is in the words following, to
wit:
This Court being decidedly of opinion
that every Diftria Court in the United
States poflefs all the powers of a Court of
Admiralty, whether considered as an in
stance or as a prize court, and that the plea
of the aforefaid apellce, Pierre Arcade
Johannene to the jurifdiaion of the Dif
tria Court, for the diaria of Maryland,
is altogether inefficient. It is therefore
considered by the Supreme Court afore
faid, and now finally adjudged and de
creed by the fame, that the bid plea be,
and it is hereby over-ruled and difmifled,
and that the decree of the said Diftria
Court of Maryland, founded thereon, be
and the fame is hereby revoked, reversed
and annulled.
And the said Supreme Court, being
further clearly of opinion that the Dif
tria Court of Maryland aforefaid, has
jurifdiaion competent, to enquire and to
decide whether in the prcfent cafe restitu
tion ought to be made to the claimants or
either of them, in whole or in part, that
is, whether such restitution can be made
consistently with the laws of nations, and
the treaties and laws of the United States;
therefore it is ordered and adjudged that
the said Diftria Court of Maryland, do
proceed to determine upon the libel of
the said Alexander S. Glass, and others,
agreeably to law and right, the said plea
to the jurifdiaion of the said Court to
the contrary notwithstanding.
And the said Supreme Court being
further of opinion that no foreign power
can of right, institute or erea any Court
of Judicature, of any kind, within the
Jurifdiaion of the United Slates, but
such only as may be warranted by, and
be in pursuance of treaties—it is there
fore decreed and adjudged, that the Ad
mirelty Jurifdiaion which has been exer
cised in the United States by the Con
sul» of France, not being so warranted ;
is not of right.
It is further ordered by the said Su
preme Court, that this cause be, and it
hereby is remanded to the Diftria Court
for the Maryland Diftria for a final decj
tD States,fion, and tTnit the fevera! p?.rti-g to tike
fame, do each pay their own coits.
to be a true copy frt>m the
R/cfiui* of the Supreitie Court of the
Uviif' ! S'.ates, by
SAMUEL BAYARD, Clerk
Phiiadeljjm, Feb. 19.
cjyfwnjtiox of
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
ti r 7HE BRITISH PACKET.
PAR!
AC-r n l FcOival dvtiicareil to RrniT n m;l
> ruih was ycftcrday celebrated in t!|c
ct-d. t:v ; C ilhcdral of Pari . In ''Ik*
«f th's tiny ch wi>t « mount, ar..i on if
a very phin tcople, the farade of bore
th • following infcnpiiuii :— \la Phiiof >fhic.
1J- fore the £.iie of this <emp'e? were p'ru'ed the
I n * «>' the molt celcbrat&l fmiiofophcr*. i lie
Torch of !"roth was in the fiitfiuiir of the mount
upon *!;«■ -iltai i»i" tffWloii, fprendinjj livhr. 1 he
Convetir'ioY: and ill the coniHtutcJ Au.lioriiies
*{ tiK e< rtmony. ,
wo vc\v* of girls, drefled in white,
cach- wearing a cr«*wn of oak leaves, eroded
K;.>r.» t ie A?" r of Reafun, at the f >uwl
Republican n:. fu ; each of the ir!s iutlinid
iiriore nit: rorcli, and afceiiding the fumijiit «>f
the mouma'-i. J.ib-rty then came out of the
Temple of towards a throne made
of graft, to receive the homage of the Repun
l.ic'-itii of both fcxeji, who fun;; an hyrrn in her
piaifc, extending their arms at tlu faiwe time
towards her. ib-rty delceoded ifcerwards-to
return to rhe Temple, and on re-entering it,
Pu- turned about, caftin;* ji lock cf benevolence'
fcn her frietrds. Wtien (he get in, everyone
e<prcfled wirh c-ithitfiafm the fenfa ions which
the gntfdvf* excited in n.em hy forigs . f joy,
f.r.d they fworo nevcf to ceail* to be faithful to
her.
The J~.e«bins hav? appointed official pleading
f.>r ihe ihoemafcer who concealed.a rat in his
liar, ami who ha* been imprisoned fevts
Hi >». h* 'hi jM'pular focicty o{ \':i!f-nns
pen.t ~x. v ' i ,l "' mlr f+3«rlt 'ot rqit.ili' y. In*
pro; ofiu: r». J ,C: defiM- cti as heing
.1 'o f; d>lc with thur l'.:rv;i:ifs.
3..ur.10n has, N 3 at the Jacobins
eftaMi(hed 'his g'rat pi. "'>pJe—th;»t all rcli
£M.iu? worjhip •$ ( qua] • °ut of Regard 1 to
pr.'ti.'flcCion, it is neccffary ilia'' Should exist.
I : ci ha- ,in cdjifctjuen'.e, prop-i • ? t-!*fmn
t i:r the TilarL s of all the pridh ; \»lis "n *
f<> -.u'Crivt- t' wjfh ?r d<^
au i rpvtcHes, ;h if if were p-dfi-.v ro honour
ti-,c b:.:p!"i:r.e Bciisj mure than by jjood
an •!
» ettcr . Fr"ifi the ftaflern Pyrenees menrion.
that rb'c /liom-irdH have beer, driven bvV in
three at tacit* they made agairtft the redoubts of
V 'leiorjnie. '1 he neus fr:,Tti the Uav of
R-sf. .an i iiie fort de-. Otitis is go*»d. A eartc!
h - i been agreed on het-vecn the Spanifa and
F- '\'l< ( oor'.iilfiirie.s, aKd it was refolveJ. ift.
'i oa'. t e pri loft civ (hottM be exchanged accor
ding to r: e of the '"orvention. ad,
Thai robbers and aflafEns rtiou d be given up
pn b"«h fi'iys. 3d. f hat prisoners should ob
tain liberty m r<tnrn to th ir ivlpeiSlive coun
ties, on »vr.o'e ; but not to fcive until after
. th ,;r exchange.
N'.v?m' er 1 7
Manuel, the .«• of th* C<Hnmon
airy <,f Par?*, and Fx 1.-'.'ptfv of 'he Nsrional
Convention. has been cor.yi&cd of being an
rccorpjilicr in rbe frotfon of Vetion and Ifrif
f )t, and wf.-. executed on th« niorhii>£ of «he
16r14. Ir hir> :vay t*> '.he fcafToid he was very
riu.h the taunts of the populace.
1 (i: Clewed"a roV.fi ifra'-V. (Vpitc <»f firmnefs,
jiid arne r< d.E»>\viih to hjfte'n his der.ih ; for
lie v ou'd Tint wait to ti-d to the machine,
lu pi.'.fsrd his head iv the coVir, ami llrercl ed
i .it ]ii-» neck to fa., i.rate h»> »*xectitiun. wliich
v frenera'ly applaud-."d.
G-.»*'val Rrune who commanded tV.e army
in t-a'y f'vTcrsd the nay, \->/j 3i r wirh
( r wf. » w.i*. on
t5• n ; the* former behaved vith great for
• tr;;d<;, and regained th'c guillotine with a
Thuriof has been pxp.lh d 'h* Js»c«birt Club,
Cha'-ij-f rt. 'he jiluarian, O e friend of Carra,
I.is cu :.?>;»• tl ioat. Genera! Jour Jan ha« let off
a;:ain for hi; army. G'.i'ural i.aiinoi has been
If nt tosh- • Hl> iv<.
|r> hr frfticTM of the Convention of the 13th,
J.C Eon nv.ivtd, fat lU« memory of I a Carre 4
* l>H'ofbr»V;r. wlio wns beheaded in tht year
for h!afnheniin?Chrill and intuiting the
Crucifix, Humid be folenmly rr c.taU jibed, his
ci inxr havi. jr been only a philosophical
nation, and rh.tt his forfunc, which w,b orf.f
c3tcd, Ihiiufd be re/Wcd to liis relations. This
the 1 fiVmbVvTetTrtd.
Hnuch.»rd wroten letter from wrif- 'n, requrf-
firi; ilia' h- v.-ho kill;;! -? Ormr-.ls at Hontl
aj);l 'hrt>"e r'.vuifi'rl 1 -'j'-iry, v.'lm
H"4c .80 jiicccs of cinnon, and reived Dun
kirk «'•'!»- l-im. and his
r;nvnc<'- : l.evt ffoir, however de
dured iivueli&nd to be a coward ; for, infttad
of killbg slu-ei: 'Re-.-cralj nt ' uiu'.fcotte, he
(1 cvi-fiVnr' f?.'und In in jjul behind a hci'ge al
ter i!:r ;r.t v .i>"! he C&livcul:-
011 1 1 JilI'M 1.-11 to -Oj'H- r ofthf Day.
November 18.
Ch~.uir.ct has denounced Madame Mon
tsnfier, in the council general of the cCm
mtme; for having b'jP.t her theatre near
the National Library, in order to fct fire
to the latter. For this purpose she had
teen supplied. with Englifn money, and
50,000 crowns by the late queen.
The council c. dcrtd this th -nrc to be
ftittt,M<<3ta2::.r to be taken into custody
as q fufpc'&ed ptfrfon, which w.is immedi
ate!-.- do:x, and the mr.nns-crs and p-.rt.;rm
cio <;f nil the in Purls, to undr/go
a c.vllfcrutiny wltlrrefpe& to their patri
otism.
On the ioth the council general re
folvcil, That, confidefing the great ex
pence of guarding the prisoners in the
I «s<viple, the convention ihould be petiti
i&cd to transfer the prisoners to the t>rdi
ary prisons, and bring them to trial with-
uu« uciay
Culli, the deputy under sentence of
outlawry, was executed on the 16th.
General was condemned on
the 15 ill, and executed on the 16th.
Genjr.il Launay is committed to the
Abbavt.
T t
Tnt Ja ft return of prisoners is 3,272.
For some clays great uneafinels have
been felt for the town of Dol, which was
menaced by the royalists.. The rumour
is now confirmed, that the inhabitants of
Doi have been obligled to open their
gates to the rebels, after the lols of many
brave republicans.
It has been Itrongly rumoured r or some
days putt, that an attempt was intended
to be mace to rifcue the number of un
haQpy persons in the different prisons. In
consequence of this report, Henriot, the
Commandant, yefterdny ordered the fol
lowing declaration to fcrts polled up in every
ftrcet:
" I beseech my comrades to use their
utmost vigilance round the prisons of la
Force and la Conctergerie. There cxifts
a very hideous plot, the consequences of
which mult be extremely disadvantageous
to society, if we do not prevent it. Let
us watch these asylums; examiae those
who enter and go out:—the gold of Ty
rants paflts through every crevice, and
causes more ravages than whole armies of
Despots."
The day before yesterday, the persons
lately employed in the theatre of Montan
fier, rcprefented to the council general of
the commune, that by (hutting up the
theatre, they were deprived of bread,that
they wei'e ifu?ft of them fathers of fami
lies, arid ready individually, to bring tes
timony that they were good republicans,
and that if the danger of setting fire to
the national library was the only obje&iorf
to fufiering them to perform precautions
might be taken to prevent such an acci
dent.
They were allowed to open the theatre
provifionally,under the dire&ion of a com
mittee of their own body, but not to ex
hibit any thing in the nature of fireworks.
It was also ordered that the watchmen
and firemen, in attendance at the theatre
should be doubled.
On the fame day, a member of the
council announced, that in the house of
Choubert, formerly receivcr-general of the
finances, and in other houses in the sec
tion of Indivifibiiity, he had found 375
marks of gold in ingots, 269 marks of
silver in ingots, 621 marks of silver in
plate, and 1,130,000 livres in coin,which
had been all carried to the mint.
The revolutionary tribunal bas acquit
ted Michonis, and 8 other perfons,charg
ed with having aided the late queen in a
confpiracv against the republic; but proofs
having appeared, that Michonis was aid
ing in the conspiracy, although it could
not be proved that he was wilfully and
knowingly aiding, he was ordered to be
detained as a fufpedled person till peace*
The number of prisoners, by the last
report, is 3,3 15.
From Toulon, we hear, that Spanifli
pride and Englilh bluntnefs, have produc
ed a quarrel; that each party diftrulls
the other, and both the French traitors
who put them in pofleffion of the port.
With vefpeft to the fafety of the repub
lic, we enjoy the molt tranquil confidence
—In every quarter, we have baffled both
oirr external and internal enemies; inmany
we have been victorious. Ourtreafury is
in such a state of wealth as the world ne
ver vitneffed. Our affignats are at par,
and the security for them is immense. Be
frd"S the gold and silver brought from e
verv quarter, the national property, the
property of the emigrants, the property
of the civil lift, form an inexhaustible ca
pital. Such a treasury, the raising of
800,000 youth for the dcfence of the
frontieis, and the ardour of all Frenchmen
in the common cause, ought to convince
the other powers of Europe, that the
French Republic cannot perilh, and that
in spite of all their efforts, we will be
free.
November 20.
General Order
(Signet!)
" HENRIOT."
November 22.
v NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Lett«r read Irom the ci-dgvant Duchels cf Or-
leans.
" Marjtil cj, Ca. 19, Style
" 1 am determined, at this moment, by
means us the reinforcements which have been
made ive, to place all my fortune in the hands
ot the nation. For this long time 1 have sighed
alter liberty ; my heart is pure, as are my ac
tions; and in my captivity I enjoyed the hap
ptneis of heing conscious that I have done no
thing- but for the good of my fellcw-citizen*. I
have fu.filled my duties towards my creditors
and my servants. I am therefore at liberty
to di!f>«fe ©f my fortune The principal a
mouuts to more than eleven millions, and con
ftquentljr theintereft ismore than four hundred
theaf;i;:d livres. I deltine it to the comfort »f
the defenders of their country. A'l the favour
I ask is the liberty of retiring to any part of the
Republic, where 1 may enjoy, in peace, the
fwictftoi liberty, in company with some friends,
whoin patriotism is well known."
This lettef was sent to the Committee of
General Safety.
Roberfpierre announced yeflerday, that Bil
laud Varennes was to make a report t»-day
concerning the means of giving to the Govern
ment the neceflury energy.
BiJlaud Itated, that hitherto the laws had re
mained without vigour ; that unlets they were
rigorously executed, the rising Republic would
soon expire : that anarchy prevails, tharthefe
evil® would increase, and despotism would rife
on tha ruins of liberty. He ftatcd, that the
kings, their external enemies, were a thousand
times left to be feared than ftderalifm ; for the
most dangerous aiiaflin is he who lives in the
sams houfn.
'Jo uUain a remedy for these evils is the ob
je<ft of rhis report, which the Committee of
Public Safety had caused to be presented to the
Convention.
From tbe Paris Gazettes of \ T cvemler jg and 2©.
The Se&ion cf the Armed Mm, having de
sired to know what will be the Kepublican
node of burying the citizens; the Council of
the Commons, resolved, that a civil Conimif
fioner, wearing a red tap, Hull preccde all bu
rials.
A Deputation of women with red caps ap
peared yesterday at the bar of the Commune.
"I iiis new fight in the middle of the Council of
the Commons, excited violent murmurs in the
I ribunes.—The president called them to order.
" And T (cried Chaumette) move for the
civic mention of the condu& of the Tribunes,
who fliew their contempt for abominable wo
men, wjjo desire to appear as men. Is it the part
of women to make motions ? Does it belong
to women to put themselves at the heads of
battalions ?—lf there lived in former times a
Joan d' rc {Maid of Orleans), there then li
ved like wife a Cliarles VII.
" Women are by nature deDined .to take
care of family concerns: to be mothers; to
fwDport and rear their children; Our wives
(hould We at home when we are here If nature
willed that women fhouldbemen, nature would
have given women beards. I move that the
Deputation of women be liot heard."—Adopt
ed.
The women immediately put their red eaps
into their pockets, and withdrew, without giv
ing the lead hint of the caule of their visit to
the Commons.
Chaumette has complained to the Munici
pality, that the women of the town arc now
becoming devotees ; that they continue to ho
nour Jesus Chris) in the churches; and that
the enemies of liberty bribe these women to
ftiare in their trcafonab'e plots.
November 2s.
It was genercily imagined that Madame du
Barry was arrei'cd for the purpose of making
her give an account of her fortune, but
some papers are said to be found in her posses.
fion relative to a plot to destroy the Republic,
together wi h letters from a number ofcmig/antfe
whom flie luprorts. These papers have been
sent to the revolutionary tribunal, and fh« wiil
fliovtly be tried.
December i
T he following Letter appeared in the Cour
ier Univerffil of this day, announcing a great
advantage gained by the Royalif.'s ;—
u Head-Quarters at Caen, November 26.
" O, Citizen Editor, could I but draw a
veil over the bloody a<stion in which near
aoco defender# of the Republic were cut in
pieces by the Rubels!—Sound the alarm in
thy Courier; coll forth all the true friends of
their Country to defend Liberty ; tell them
that an horde of Banditti means to throw them
into chains; it will require 110 snore to revive
their courage !
" The army of the Coast of Erect marched
in three columns agaiuft the Rebels. A pa
nic fcized one of those columns—tonfufion waj
immediately seen throughout the army.
Fougercs has been taken a iecoi:«i time, and
the Rebels advanced to the diftaixe of one
league from Arranchei; but they durst viot en
ter that town, as they knew it to be occupied
by the army under the command of General
fcepher.*'
LONDON, Dec. 3.
La ft week Mr- Thomas Muir and the
Rev. Eyche Palmer, arrived in the river
from Leith, on board a revenue cutter.—
Orders were fentdown for delivering them
into the custody of Duncan Campbell,
the contractor for thehulks at Woolwich;
and on Saturday they were put 011 beard
one of the Hulks. On Sunday a second
order was sent down to separate them,and
they were put into different hulks among
the felons, and ironed.
The ri&ory gained over the rebels of
La Vender, was celebrated at Bayonne
the beginning of this month ; every citi
zen had a red cap on his head, and dined
tt-ith his family in the open street, before
his house, while music played, and patri
otic hymns wtri sung in every quarter.
Admiral Gardner, it is at length afleit
ed with confidence, is to be sent out to the
Ealt-Indics with a squadron of great force.
Captain Bland, who was fwitenced by
the Court of King's Bench for having
embezzeled the King's 11 ores, received
yesterday a part of iii 6 punifhmcnt moll
publicly, for he was whipped on an ele
vated stage in Clerkenwell before a very
numerous set of fpeftators.
Letters from Naples mention, that
there has been an earthquake at Reggio,
in Calabria, by which upwards of 300
persons loft their lives; several houses
were destroyed, and the earth was so
(hocked, that it was difficult to find out
the boundaries of different persons pro
perty.
November 2J.
Extract of a letter from Peterlburgh, Oc
tober 22.
" The Ottoman ambaHador at length
arrived here on Friday lalt, with a brilli
ant and numerous suite ; 14,000 men of
the garrifoil were ranged under arms to
add to the luthe of his public entry. 011
the next day, the 19th, he was admitted
to an audience of Count d'Oltcrman, the
vice-chancellor, and to-morrow cur Au
gust Sovereign will grant the firft audi
ence, which will be public, and accom
panied by all the magnificence which d:f
tipguilhes the Ruffian court on such occa
fion9."
The following is a lift of the French
fleet which Lord Howe chafed 011 the
18th u!t.
La Tourvi!!e,9B g'jns ; La Superbe,74;
I'Amerique, 74; la Julie, 80 ; Sans
PareiUe, 74; Redoubtable 74 ; -Concord
40 ; la Refugie, 40 } Courier, 18 ; Sa:i3
Soucie, 16.
For the G.u z 7te of the United States.
A CARD.
A. B's compliments to the learned
Gracchus. He is thankful for the lumi
nous K.ftrufhons which he has received,
from so able a mailer, in the science of
politics; is considerably ftjuck with the
conceit refpeciing his signature ; —and
hopes that he has now pregrejed far
enough in the Republican Alphabet, to
add C to his title, which every one knows,
stands for Cunning. The address and Ikill
of Gracchns in defending a bad caule,
and his metaphysical niceties, with regard
to the articles, " Sovereignty, Power and
IVill," are extremely edifying ; they an
nounce him to be err.iner.t in his profcf-
Jion, and fit to be the inftruftor of tiie
" ignorant." With such an excellent
guide, A. B. expedls in due time, to
make further improvements, and perhaps
may learn modejly also ; altho' he avers,
that even at present, if he has " made
a boast of his wisdom and a parade of his
knowledge," as Gracchus alTerts he has,
it was unwittingly done.
As A. B. can scarcely believe himfclf
to be " a prodigy of genius," notwith
standing the commendation of the er/t\iunt
Gracchus, he is {till in the dark about
that fame plain bnfinefs of Sovereignty.
He hopes, therefore, for additional infor
mation, with regard to it, if the Nation,
will allow the necefiary leisure to his con
descending inftru&or. He would pre
sume to enquire, if it may be done with
out offence to this fupercilioi:3 gentleman,
whether the sovereign people having veiled
certain fpecificd parts of their sovereign
ty in the President, as their Representa
tive with regard to foreign powers, it
may not be said, that he is, in these instan
ces, a sovereign for the people ; to fpenk
in their name, and a& with their power."
A.B.refpectfully declares,that he docs not,
by this statement. mean to be pert with
his sagacious instructor, nor to controvert
his position, that "Legislation (in which
the President also comes in for a (hare) is
a portion of sovereignty, and the body
which has the legislative power is the so,
vercign" in that refpedfc for the people ;
he only suggests, that " the Representa
tive of the National power," may be ft) -
led a sovereign for the people, ußiier the
limitations which have been nnn-.::tcd, in
the fame sense which Gracchus admit?,
with refpeft to Congress, the Rcpr.Ten
tative of the national will. He pjfo sug
gests the pofTibility of fuppofir {•; bo'.h
these cases, without being; guilty of hi.h
---j treason againii the majesty of the people,
who are acknowledged b v A. o. to be
the source of the title : i ciifputc, and to
ed.—
ity urjmpA« to the cafe of Dir Flaine ; A. B. |
begs leave to observe, that his very want '
of information, with regard to the nature j
of the prosecution ag t niit thct officer } ,
and the doubtful form of queilion in
he proposed that matter, is at lealt
a prtfuijiption in favor of his declaration,
" that he has no connexion with the go- •
veraiiicnt." However, after all the elu- |
cidation which has been given to that
point by Gracchus, A. B. ftiU has Ins
doubts. He wishes to know whether Du
Plaine, was considered as a citizen cf the
United States* or a foteigt* functionary in
the Prelident's proclamation ? Whether
the Attorney prosecuted him, that the
Cra.id Jury ihould revoke his con fular
powers, in cafe of his gV'lt, or for a
quite different purpose ? And, finally,
whether he was " Vice-Consul cf BojLonJ'
as Gracchus affertcd. in his firtt publica
tion ;cr a Vice-Consul of France, a fo
rcign agent, imolently treating with con
tempt the authority of this allied country?
Without a fuller explication of these par
ticulars, the public may conclude, that the
object s or the Jury in their verdict and of
the President in his proclamation, were
wholly diilinit; yet compatible with each
other,' and therefore that the latter was
neither a premature interdiction of the
man, nor an outrage upon the palladium
of freemen, the trial by jury.
A. B. humbly excepts against the tin
qualified insinuation, which the learned
barrifterhas dated as his, with refpeft to
the Juries. When he insinuated a aVfeil
cf information to the laws of nations,
or the rules of procedure, between inde
pendent governments in particurar ii&ua
tions, he by no means denounced thera as
«' ignorant" men.
With regard to the diftinftion, flill
rcaiatained by the subtle Gracctitis, be
tween tile people and government; A. B.
requcfb to learn, whether the ails and de
ciiion of the President and Judiciary of
ficers in the cases of Henfitld & DuPlaine,
might not as well l>e called the voice of
the people, as .he verdict of the Juries,
and the (hont of a feiv choice spirits who
were colled&ed upon the decflfion. Whe
ther the Sheriff or Marihal itnpannelling
a Jury, and the Jury felefted by such of
ficer, have ' a better right to the denomi
nation, " the peojtU," than the supreme
executive of the uniarr, appointed as the
conUifut'on directs ? Ar.d hilly, whether
the culprits proscribed by the government,
were not declared to be guilty by the
in as solemn a sense, as they are laid
to have been declared innocent by the
people, when they v ere acquitted by the
Jury ? All which is submitted for more
mature cosfidcration.
A. B. is concerned, that his declara
tion of independence with regsrd to the
oScers of government, has not been en
tertained with full credit by Gracchus ;
cfjKcially fmce it may induce a suspicion,
to'that candid gentleman's disadvantage,
as if he himfelf were accustomed to tricks
of dunlicitv.
A. B. is certainly entitled to the fame
degree of credit, as Gracchus, who lias
thought fit to declare concerning, himfelf;
" I have, neither have 1 ever had, any ex
pe&alior.s (rem the Government; ctifap
pointmeDt, therefore, cannot be laid to
my charge. lam ecfy in my situation,
aod neither the fniUes nor frowns of Go
vernment fliall draw me flow my uuty."
Virtuous man ! Kow severely firm ! —
Another Cato, to fnpport the honor of
ail abuful Republic! ! it is presumed,
however, that the worthy gentleman, had
forgotten at the time of this noble tfiu
i'.or., that he had within a few fentencts,
preiic-jflv declared, that " ir.cn who make
k.ud declarations in favor of thc'ir own it:-
trgritj and £finitrej}cd«cfi beget suspicion;
for the man of real virtue, NEV E R
make* it a fiibjeit of public declaration."
A. B. disclaims the imputation of hav
ing "dragged" the quondam " Minister
cf Frwce, before the public." That man
officicuCy tbruft himfelf there in the firft
inflaoce. r i"he independent Gracchus had
also exhibited him there, whilst attempt
ing to vindicate his conduct before those,
to trhosi it is at the fame time afTerted,
that he is r..,t refpcnlible : (not even, it is
prrfemed, tiro' he fhouid attempt another
fit- Domir.go £cc:ie cf fire and plunder,
znd hl'-ed and dcvzjlation.) A. B. has
no othmrifc abofed Mr. Genet, than as
he has him err! -in epithets, derived
nrrredir-ely from his proceedings, and as
lie has flatsd the fa£k which are connec
ted wHh tac odium <xcited in the public
•Bind hhn, leaving it to all men to
drats- t!:c nrccSinrv csmclumxis.
To conclude, A. rer t '.efts Gracc»: :>
to be pntient, jand keep his temper, as a ,
man, " easy in his lituaiton" ought ;o do.
(By the Wav, to be easy, in cne's fortune,
in one's ewrteflions f and above all, in one's
conscience, if there be any conscience;
(Gracchus can guess what is meant) to
be thus easy is a bleHed thing.) Since
he has volunteered it against the President
upon whom " he rains vengeance?' (al
most), and in favor of Monf. Genet* wbo
is now covered with " the mantle of invi
olability," as well as with " the mantle
of mourning and lince it mull be eon
fefTed that he is an able it is ex
pected he will retire with his Client from
a country " no longer free," and assist
him before the Revolutionary Tribunal of
France, where the redoubtable Rober
fpierre and his aiTociates will him
an ample field for the display of his ta-
lents.
P. S. A B's card not having been publifofd
v< fterdav, he ex->tsed > Has (Mvcij htm the op
pot mint y o: feeing Mr. Bach* N ap<r
log.y ihis morning, '>»i his notorious fubjcftipti
t«> ilu- vit ws «>l a patty. A prmicr who pre
tends to »e;-u;bl'Canirni at all, and who wonid
not be juftly.tenjybaied a deceiver, ough',
above mnft «■ )irs. to che«ilb the freedom of the
pre'fr. Nobody will believe that a conduct
such the Ldiror of the Gcneial Adveitifer
exhibits, is compatible with the spirit and fcc!-
of a real paoiot. The note in Bache's pa
id this motnitig, betrays fu< h evident marks of
previous concert between Gra ohus and him,
.ib to the manner in winch he should reply to
A. B. that it "betrays a Utile more frvallownefs
in both than would Otherwifc have been fuf
pefled. Some people, in their manoeuvres,
refcmblc tfie Ostrich, who thinks itfclf conceal
ed by hiding its head in a thicket, wh;lll its
n.ikednefs is expoUd to the view ol the world.
S*-u-div, Kb. 22, 1794.
PHILADELPHIA,
FEBRUARY 22.
The Prcjldenf s Birth-Day !
HAIL the Day with patriot glee,
This is Freedom's Jubilee.
This day, being the anniversary of that
aufpieions event the birth of the President
of the United Stiffs, the fame was obfer.
ved here with unusual. demonitrations of
joy. A Federal Salute ushered in the
d-awn, and the bells ofChrift Church rang
peals at intervals through the day. At
noon the Members of both Houses of
Congress—the Heads of Departments—
the Foreign MinilUrs—his brother vete
rans, the Society ef Cincinnati—the Go
vernor, Civil and Military Officers of this
Commonweal'!! —the Reverend Clergy—
the Faculty of the University of Penn
fy'vania—and a great aflemblage of other
Citizens, waited on the President at his
house to pay him their refpefts and cosi-
gratulatibns.
The Light Horse, Artillery, 8: Light
Infantry, which paraded in honor of the
day, were more numerous than on any re
cent occasion—and their truly soldier-like
appearance merits the highett approba
tion.
Repeated federal salutes were fired in
the coiirfe of the day, by the artillery in
Hi<rh (treet.
The field officer! of the militia v.ere
dressed in new and elegant uniforms on
this occalion.
The general joy and hilarity evinced
this day, indicate that the purest republi
can principles, actuate the public mind.
The Prcfident enters into the 63d year
of his age.
This forenoon M. Fauchet, the new
Minister from France was introduced to
the Prelident of the United States, by
Mr. Randolph, Secretary of State.
M. De La Forest is appointed Consul-
General of the United States—and M.
Petrie, formerly Consul for South Caro
lina, is now appointed Consul of Pennsyl
vania—M. Petrie arrived in town yester
day.
OBSERFER—No. 11.
Mr. Fenno,
The Obj'erver attended last evening, the
exhibition of the Dramatist, and the
Flitch or Bacon, at the New Thea
tre.
His opinion of the inftrumentalmufx
is not only confirmed but heightened, by
the performances of lail night ; he docs
not hesitate to pronounce it, in point of
time and delicate harmony, equal to the belt
in the world ; it participated in a judici
ous mar.ner, of Italian foftnefir, and manly
Jlrengtfi, clearness am', energy.
The Observer is happy to congratulate,
his countivmen upon the acquisition of a
set of Payers, totally rcgardnefs of the
unthinking dictates of the Gallery, efpe
cialiy the pertbimersof inll/umental muiic,
that they play pieces of Music and overtures
instead of fucli flirting jigs, as the Gallery,
are sometimes fond of; he supposes the
President's March is referred, to announce
the attendance of that illustrious hero. If
so, their adherence to plan and principle,
is as commendable in that, as other inftan-
ccs.
The Observer hints to the Managers,
that an adoption of the- American cockade,
by the occasional officers on the Stage,
might not be an improper compliment to
this riling people.
The Company of Players, as has been
suggested on a former occasion, is fe!e&ed,
and the parts filled with uncommon judg
ment. To be particular oi> the exhibition
of raft night, would exceed the bounds
the Observer has set to his occasional re
marks : but justice demands a con-.mendr.ti
on of Mr. Chalmers, in the part of Vapid.
And r.s the Observer means, not, "to
damn -with faint praif," he is happy in
rendering a tribute of praise to Mr. Chal
mers, not beyond his just due, when he
declares, the part of Vapid was never filled
better; and in his opinion, the Epilogue,
including compofitior. and action, has ne
ver been exceeded, since the Bntifli Rof
cious, (David Garrick) ceased to adorn
the Stage and improve mankind, by his
unparalleled abilities. Mr.Chaimers is said
to be a yong a&or, the Observer admonifli
es hiin to use caution, or he may loft, in
stead of acquiring feme, which seems so
much within his reach.
Mrs. Francis and Mrs. Shaw, pofiefs
great powers as aftrelfes, the O-bferver
wifr.es to fee them exhibit again, as well
as Mr. Moreton ; they all promise much,
and the Observer thinks will gain, by re
petition, that enviable summit of applause,
so much fought, and so rarely attained.
Mr. Francis, Miss Williams, and Mrs.
De Marque, hit the true point of taste in
the Caledonian Frolic, and Highland Reel
—any more would have been painful, and
any left would have been vnjufl.
Mr. Marshall, Mr. Darley, Mr. Fran
cis, and Miss Broadhurft, in their respec
tive parts in the Flitch of Bacon, have
done, what th« Observer thinks cannot be
exceeded in Europe, and knows cannot be
equalled iiv-America.
Mr. Fenno,
The political Fable in Mr. Bache's paper
is so apropos to the present iituation
of this country, and to the attempts
of the GalTicans, to seduce us by Cajolery
into the war, that I hare transmitted it
for publication, with a few obvious al
terations.
THE HEDGE-HOG AND THE FOX.
A POLITICAL FABLE
Behold Columbia, fortified
With Fieemen brave, and Neptune's tide,
Can every vaunting foe despise,
In /elf-defence her powefs lies j
But fhou'.d (he \vi(h to-interfere
In foreign broils, and domineer,
She may expect a reckoning day
No coffers could the charge defray—
With pointed armour fortified,
The hedge-hog every foe defied ;
While rolled up in a ball he lay,
His enemies were kept at bay j
A Fox that knew all threats were vain,
Addressed him thus in flattering (train
" Arise, great Sir, assert your worth,
Display your armour, sally forth ;
Your presence will the sorest awe,
You'll give the savage nations law."
Tir'd of security and east,
Willing to rule 36 well as plcafe,
The hedge-hog, pompously walk'd out,
When Reynard feiz'd him by the snout,
And soon convinced th' unhappy fool,
He (hould have kept to nature's rule.
Hence let Columbia warning take,
And no Quixotic sallies make,
But recollect, ere 'tis too late,
The hedge-hog's folly and his fatr.
Fro.u ConßtsrovDNTS.
The f:lf-created order of the Cincinna
ti, is censured in Mr. Bache's paper
for celebrating the President's birth-day.
The fclf-created order of Jacobins, or De
mocrats, are vindicated by the fame fac
tion. To club it to carry points at elec
tions, and at all times to bully govern
ment, are not better views nor more friend
ly to liberty and virtue* than those cf the
Cincinnati.
The devotcdnefs of certain newfpapert
:o 3 foreign interellmaybedifcerned clearly
lyenoush to convince any one* There is
an inctiTant labor to bring, about feelings
and events which aic no! American—
which a true American detests. To dis
organize End degrade our own govern
ment, to set the states above it, to set
clubs above it, to set the people against it
as a tyranny, that deals power from them
by cunning, and their money by corrup
tion and fpecufation j to worry the firlt
man in the world, so as to diiguft hira
with the difchargc of the most rcfpeftable
and ufeful duties in the world, in the hope
that he may retire—to abufc and persecute
every truly able and fioneft public officer,
so as to let the government fink into the
puny hands of feeble temporary dupes, or
into these of knaves—in which caie they
would have it to themselves j these are the
obje&s of party —these are the topics
which certain devoted printers dilfeminate*
For the truth of this, the appeal is made
to their readers.
Extract of a letter from MelTrs. George
C. Fox and 1 Sons of Falmouth, to a
house in this city, dated 13th Decem-
ber 1793.
" Bv o.ic of our vefTcls this day from
Lisbon, we have a lilt from our friend
there of the American veffols captured by
the Algerines—viz.
Ship Minerva, Capt. John M'Shane,
Philadelphia, 17 men ;
Brig Jane, Moses Moss, Newburyport
8 men ;
Schooner Dispatch, Wm. Wallace,
Richmond, 7 men ;
Brig Patty, Michael Smith, Newbury
port, 9 men ;
Brig Olive Branch, Vv m. Furnace,
Portsmouth ;
Ship President, Wm. Penrofe, Phila
delphia, 11 men ;
Brig George, James Taylor, Newport
8 men;
Schooner Jay, Samuel Calder, Glou-
cefter;
Ship Hope, J j'wi Burnhair:, N. York
I g men ;
Ship Thomas, Timothy Newman, Bos
ton ;
Capt. Jackson, from Malaga, with fruit-
All captured in October, between Cape
Traflagar and Cap- Pitch-T.
Cj" -Anti-B isotrt, in answer to Cairo,
fiall appear in our next.
NEW THEATRE.
On MONDAY, Feb. 24.
A Tragedy, called
Venice Preferv'd,
Or, * PLOT DISCOVERED.
Duke of Venice, Mr. Finch.
Priuli, Mr. Whitlock.
Bodamar, Mr. Marshal.l.
Pierre, Mr. Fcnnell.
Jaffiei", Mr. Wignell.
Renault, Mr. Green.
Spinora, Mr. Harwood-
Elliot, Mr. Morcton.
Durand, Mr. Warrell.
Officer, Mr. Francis.
Belvidera, Mrs. Whitlock.
AfUr the Tragedy a Pastoral DANCE,
Called the
HIGHLAND FROLIC.
To which will be added, a Farce in two
A&s, called
The Lying Valet.
Sharp, Mr. Bates.
Gargle, Mr. Moreton.
J u (lice Guttle, Mr. Wan-ell
Beau Trippet, Mr. Harwood-
Drunken Cook, Mr. Francis-
Melifia, Mrs. Francis.
Mrs. Gadabout, Mrs-. Bates.
Mrs. Tiippet, Mrs. Rowfon.
Betty Pry, Mrs. Shaw.
Boxes, one doilar —Pitt, three c;uartcr»
of a dollar —and Gallery, bali" a doilar.
Vivai Rfjjuittxa.
For Sale or Charter,.
The Shsp
ANDROMACHE,
( an American bottom )
' John Moore> Master;
Is a stout good vefliS, about two years old,
burthen tons* has only made three voy
ages, and may he sent to f:a at a final! ex
pellee. She may be seen at Vine- lb-ret wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
Wharton c? Lewis.
Tel). 21, 1794. trfJAMES LEACH,
RLSPECTFI'LLY inform* his friends and
the public, Tint from the encouragement
be has »cceivrd, fiom fcveral icfpr&abU Gentle
men, lu* is induced nncc more, ti»omb«uk in 'he
I'API'.R LlNK—and would offer his feivires to
all «b«fe Gentlemen, who ran place confidence
in him ; and lv assures those who employ him,
thai ih« ir confidence Iball not he mi'place<l—
b<U ii (Hall be his towfanr enriravor, ro poy the
f4 r ict (\ attention to their heft interest, in all nc
gori»'inn« wha'evrr. He has taken ih* Chamber,
in Siate-Strret, ov«>r Mr. David Town fend, W.vch
M,ke.N Shop. Whcte PUBLIC SbCURI
TILS», of all k-tids, ar* bonqh'' and fold; >nd
where Com mi (Ron Bufinrfs of all kinds, will he
Iranftdcd on leafonable terms. HOUShS -*nd
VESSELS will be conUatitly expo fed lor file, on
com mi (linn.
* # * Calb paid for Salem, Pioviilence, and
P.;rilmouih BILi S.
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New-York, has any Pujinefi to t ran (all at Fo/lon,
in Paper Negotiations, he will be happy to be em
ployed on count/(ton.
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the nth day of April next,
at the hoiife of John Thomson, in Pertli-
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
THE Lot contains eleven ac»e?, on which is
an oichaid oi graff'i apple tiecs. a well of
excel'u nt water, a large (lone c stern, and a very
commodious liable and < oach-houfc, and a great
quanuy ol the b*ft building (tones in the walls
o! the houfc, which was fotmerly built lor the
rtfi.lence ol the Governovs of Ncw-Ji rlcy. The
fiiUdtion of thia Lot is so well known »or its
healthiness and beautiful profpeft of the Rarsion
river to the weft of the bay. and Sandy-Hook to
the e.ift, thai a further defciiption is unnrceffiry.
The conditions of sale will he, one third ol the
purchafc money to be p:id on the fir ft day of
May next, when a good and fufficient Deed will
be Riven to the puichaf r, by Walter Ru-
Therfurd, Esq. Pirfiiient of the Boaid of
Proprietors ol the Eaftcrn Divifton of Ncw-
J**fey, anrt the remaining two thi-ds fatis?a£lo
nly (ecured in equ<>! annual paymcms.
By order of the Board.
JAMKS PARKER, Rigifter.
Perth-Amboy, February 5, aawani
War Department.
January 3 oth 1794.
INFORMATION is heteby to.ill (he
military invalids of th-,- United Stares,that the
funis to which tlicy arc entitled lor fix months
of their annual petition, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on he sth day of March i794> will be paid on
the laid day by ihc Commiflionc s of the Loans
wit htn the states refp< lively, under the usual re-
guUtiwiis.
Applications of execu'ors and administrators
mull be accompanicd with iegil evidence of
iheir refo stive offices, and 21fn of the lime the
invalids died, whofc petition they may claim.
By coinrivano of the Prtfid nt
of the United States,
H. KNOX,
Sect clary oj IVar.
The printers in the iflpettivc llaics are
requcfted lopwblifh the ah m- hi their newfpa
pt rs lor the fpaceof two mon hs,
January 30
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SAI. E BY
M. Carey, No. 118,High-fireet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sjtings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the bejl sense in the world.
r "|~ , HIS little book is written in a stile altogether
X novel, and is adapted to all capacities, at
well as 10 all dalles of people, merchants, me
chanics ond far inns. Such a reputation has this
w<uk. acquired, that it has pasTed thro three im
prefftons iu Ihe calleru Hates, and many houfe
ho'uie<s deem it so ufelul as to purchase a copy
for every adult in theii families.———Pa 1 c e as.
'February 4. dit
Notice is hereby given,
r "I~ , HAT the fubferiber ha? been duly ap-
X pointed AdminiArafTix on the estate of]
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boftrin, in the county of Suffolk, decejifed, and
has taken upon herfelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law directs—-and all persons in
terested, are deitntl to take notice accord
ingly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
ALL perfonswho have any demands against
ihe Eftatc of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceafcd, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the Subfci iher, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who (land indebted to said Efiate, are
r« qnefted to fetrle with hm mme4iatciyf\ as the
Art of Limitation of Aftinns, which is to take
place on the firft day of December next, will
otherwise render it necelTary for him 10 com
mence fuitsaga.nft them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793*
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are requeued to inlert this in their
refpe&ive newspaper*, and forward their ac
toiints tor the fame, to J. M
NORRIS - COURT,
Back of the New library, between Cliefnut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
tile public 111 general, that he continues
y.nj; on the business of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewii'c, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or windo\v-fliutters,donft in the nioft
elegant manner, and with dii'patch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
rece> vrd. and duty attended to.
December 30, dtf
]uft Imported,
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
Ai>d n »w opening for ale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
sit AO. 118, Market Jirut,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following
NEW Annua] Reg titer for 1792
European Magazine sOl the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of. the Manchcfter society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Difncy's !ile of Dr. Jortin
K'nnjviJle's ancient geography
D'Anoii s of Guy Joli
Memty,a collection of* e flays
Varieof PrulTia's works
Calm obfervei—by Mackintclh
R uflell's ancient and modei n Europe
I-anghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Sauguier and B« illon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels is Spain
Taflo's Jerusalem delivered
Sinellie's translation of Buflbn
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Bulfon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, g vols.
Whi taker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Kzf to polite literature.
I inlay's dtfeription of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present Itate of Hud Ton's Bay
Preftort on inafonry
Lavater on phyfiogunmy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Jolmfow
Necker on executive power
Kisses of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins ofempires
Vaillaint's travel', with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materiaJifm and immaterialifni
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete fanner
Chandon's life of Voltaire
I)e Noil's travels
Franklin's life and works
G-ozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
God win oti political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's sketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse di&ionary
R.everies of fotitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip lid. & IHd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wallis on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruflia,Poland,&c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of' mid
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the niufc es
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's d fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatifc on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's dissertations
London pra&ice ofphyfie
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
d«m
FOR SALE,
By MATHF.W CAREY, No. 118,
Market-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery:
Defined to exhibit in a new point ot view,
its effctts on mora/s t and the peace of
ociety. Some fa£U and calculations are offered
to prove the labor of Jrecmeu to be much more
productive than that ot Jlaves ; that counuick ate
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the mctHaiy conclusion, that
flavsry is impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price 25 Cent*.
February 15
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
TH E Subscriber intending to con fine himfclf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, begs leave toot
frr his Cervices to his triends and others, in the
line oLm Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may depend
upon having it tranCa&ed with the uimoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders fioin Philadelphia, Boston, or any
oilier part oi the United States, will be Jlriftly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
Phi LADtLrHiA, Ff biuary 13, 1794.
PROPOSALS
For piloting by Subscription,
A Work, 10 be entitled,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Pennsylvania State "Trials.
THE want ot fufficient information of the
ftatc trials of Gieai-Britain in the early
periods of that government is now lamented :
Hi herto there hath been buc one trial in the
ftatc of Pennsylvania on impeachment :—ar.d
heiealfo it is to be regretted, that, being neg
lected at the time, the public are now left with
out ftifficicnt information on the fubjett of that
trial, it is however in this -work designed to ref
cucjwhat can be colle&cd theieof from sources
of indifputaple authority, f 0 that the fame lhall
be preserved from oblivion.
Another impeachment and the second is now
depending. An officer is charged by the late
Honfe of Reprcfentatives, who hath for many
years been largely confided in by this state, and
filth Jong b en at the head of the financial de
panmeni of the fame, and it imports the citi
zens to know his condu£t, and thecircum{laflees
which may be brought foiward on his trial.
Ih this work the Editor will be careful to
state the fails, as they may be brought forward,
and to lay all the evidence and papers before
the public.—With this view—
The following Terms are refpeßfully
fulmitted to the Public :
I. The Work shall be printed in o&avo, with a
good type, on fine paper, and delivered to
fubferibers at the refpeftive places where the
subscriptions arc taken in, as soon as the work
shall be compleatcd.
11. As no conjecture can well be made, as to
the length of the present trial, the fir.e of the
volume cannot be ascertained at this time—
But the price (hail not exceed that of fomeof
the latest publications in this city.
111. It will contain all the preliminaries and in
cidental circumstances that may occur during
the trial of John Nicholfon, Esquire, Comp
troller-General of this commonwealth, with
thearguments of counfrl on boih fides,logether
with the articles of impeachment, and the
pleas ahd replications at large, the fevcral le
f 'luiions of the two branches of the state Le
gislature, refpe&ing this impeachment, and
the final decilion of the SENATE refpc&ing
that officer.
To which will be prefixed, as much as can be
collr&ed from authentic documents, of the im
peachment, trial, and acquital of the late Francis
Hopkinfon, Esquire, Judge of the C«urt of
Admiralty for the state of Pennsylvania, during
the laic war, never before pnblifhed.
No money will be required before the deli
very of the book.
Subscriptions will be received by Francis
BaUey, No. 116, High-street; Wrigley and Ber
riman, No. 149, Chefnut-ftreet, and by the dif
ferent hookfeklert in this ciiv; Jacob Bailey,
Lancaster ; Yundt and Patton, Baltimore, and
by the Editor.
EDMUND HOGAN.
N. B. The price will be enhanced to non
fubfcribers. Feb. 18. taw <f
City Commiflioners Office,
January 30, 1794.
JN pursuance of a Relolvc ot the Common
Couucil, Hated the 20th day of January,
*794» f° r dividing the City into five Diftrifts,
by lines drawn East and Weft, whereof each of
the City Commiflioners is to take the fuperin
tmdance of one of tl>e said Diltn&s, and to be
accountable for the cleansing, good order and
teguiaritv of the fame.
The Commiflioners have accordingly made
the following arrangement for the present:
DiJlriQ the \JI. Nathan Boys, to have the
charge of that part of the streets, lanes and alleys
from Odar-ftreet, to the north fide of Spruce
tieet.
Di/lricl the 2d. Hugh Roberts, from the north
fide of Sprucc-ftreet to the norih fide of Walnut
street,
Dijlrifl the 3d. Joseph Claypoolr, from the
north fide of Walnut to the south lide of High
■ftreet.
Dijlrift the 4th. William Moulder, from the
north fide ot High, to the north iide oi Mulberry
street
Difrid the $th. Nicholas Hicks, from the
north fide of Mulbeny, to the north (ide of Vine
street.
Ext' ast from the Mivvfrs,
JOHN MEASE, CM.
N B. The carriage way in Markct-ftreet, is
under thecharge o! the Commiflioners generally,
for the present, the foot-ways on ihr north and
south fides thereof, are ccnoi£tcd with the ad
joining Diftndh rcfpc&ivcK.
Excellent CLARET,
In Nogs.cads and in calcs of tics each,
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine -j
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hoglhcads and quaucr calk«,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
N'n. 111, South Front Urcct.
Jan. s, 1794.
THET ruftees of an Academy,
or any individual wi thing to engage ;>
per,on to fuperi intend the Education of youth,
in the courie of usually adopted iu
Academies, or any branch of bulinefs requ'r
ing similar qualifications, may open a com
munication with a peilon willing to be em
ployed a few years (for a generous compensa
tion) by writing (letters to he post paid) t»
Mr. John Fenno. Philadelphia.
(£3* Printers to the Southward uiou/d pojfibiy
obiige [one of {heir friends, by injerltng theJvegoi**
a few times in their papers.
February 8.
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor.
Jamaica,^
An Ad for giving validity in this IJland to
Probates to be taken, by certain Officers
in the United States of America, of D :eds
to be there executed, and also to Exempli
fications of Wills there proved.
WHEREAS, since the reparation from the
crown of Great-Britain of the late co
lonies, now called the United States of Ame
rica, great inconvcnienccs have arifcn to many
of his Majesty's fubje&s occasionally refilling
in those States, for want of a legal provision
refpeiSling the probates and acknowledgments
of deeds executed in the said States, and in
tended to operate in this island : For remedy
whereof, we, your Majesty's dutiful and loyal
fubjeils, the Lieutenant-Governor, Council,
andAfiembly of this your Majesty's island of
Jamaica, humbly beseech your Majesty that
it may be enabled ; Be it therefore enailed,
and it is hereby enafitd and ordained by the
authority of the fame, That, from and im
mediately after the palling of this act, any
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed
wliatfoever, which (hall be hereafter executed
in any of the United States of America, and
lhall be proved by a fnbfcribing witness, or
acknowledged by the party or parties, before
any of his Majesty's Consuls or Vicc-Conluls
residing in any of those States, or before the
Chief Justice of any of the said States, or be
fore the Chief Justice or any of the Judges of
the Supreme Court of the said United States,
and certified under the seal of any of the said
States, or the seal of the said United States,
(hall be, and the fame is hereby declared to
be, as good and effeiftual in the law as if such
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed,
had been rei'peflively proved or acknowledged
before a Judge of any court of record in this
island ; any law, cuflorr, or usage, to the con
trary notwithstanding : —Provided always,
That in all cases wherein the right or property
of any woman under coverture is intended
to be conveyed, Ihe (hall be examined fejkrate
and apart from her hu/band, by the Judge
who attests the probate, and the said examina
tion lhall be certified in like manner as is prac
tised in Great-Britain or in this Island.
11. And be it further enabled by the autho
rity aforefaid, That the probate of any last
will and testament, taken before any officer
authorized to take probates of wills in any of
the said States, and exemplified under the
seal of the State where such probate lhail have
been taken, shall be, and the fame is hereby
declared to be, as good and effe&ual in the
law, as if such probate had been taken before
the ordinary of this island ; any law, custom,
or usage, to the contrary in any wife notwith
ltanding.
PaJJed the AJJsmbly this z 2th day of
her, 1793.
WILLIAM BLAKE, Speaker.
Tajfed the Council, this \\th November, 1793.
G.ATKINSON, CI. Council.
I confenty this 6th December, 1793.
ADAM WILLIAMSON.
F'.ra copia extur. G. At kin son , Sec.
* The American Printers are requested
to publish this a£ in their several newspapers.
Cj* Terms of Subfiription for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars p:r annum—to he
paid half-yearly. Subferiptions cf perfont
ivho reftde at a diflance from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to Le
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Advertifrments of one square, or lefs 9 :r.-
fertedfour times for One Dollar—onefor
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this lire, arid^Suhjcra
tions t 'will be gratefully received at tht OjjLr
in South Fourthftrsti 9 Jive doors north cf tlr
Indian Queen
PHILADELPHIA /
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No.
South FattrtU-Strecu