Ho. I' V -
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS.
THE TABLET.
NUMBER IX.
u Tht imagination of man is naturally fuhlime, de-
Hghttdwith whatever is remote and extraordinary,
ani running without controul into the jnoft dijiant
part' of [pact and time, in order to avoid the objects,
which cujlom has rendered too familiar to it
/~vF all the weaknefles,to which the human mind
0 is incident,there is not a more extraordinary
one than that blind, implicit reverence/ we are
apt to feel for the characters, the maxims, and the
institutions of antiquity. The love of novelty,
strong as it is, does not overcome our propensity
to tins-kind of admiration. There seems to be
tome unaccountable fafcination, that holds the
mind in fubje&ion, and prevents the clear exer
cise of judgment, while the imagination is tak
ing its flight into the regions of pall ages. We
are so captivated with the splendor and extent of
conquests which hijtory presents to our view ; with
the lustre and elevation of characters it displays ;
with the various and altonilhing revolutions it
records, that our reafonis overwhelmed,and can
not exert that force, which it discovers on other
occasions.
There is scarce a circumstance that looks like
perfection, or even utility of cultivation, in which
ancient can bear any comparison with modern times.
Itmay not be unentertaining,to search for the cause
of oar veneration for antiquity, notwithstanding
it to have 110 reasonable foundation. In
forming our ideas of fame of the ancient nations,
whom we profefs to admire, we compare them
with other cotemporary ones ; whom we have been
accuftomcd t;o reprobate and despise. As molt ot
our opinions, respecting virtue and vice ; prail'e
and blame, are comparative, we sometimes be
llow an extravagance of applause, on a people vi
cious and d«praved, merely because they are not
jo deeply funkin depravity, as other people, with
whom we compare them. This is one reason why
encomiums are to lavishly heaped on characters
and actions, which scarce deserve a place in our
remembrance. Perhaps this admiration is heigh
tened by the profufe compliments, that historians
.have paid to particular periods and nations, at
the expense and disgrace of others. We feel no
motive to discredit their relation of tranfatftions,
orto doubt the propriety of their opinions or con
clusions. We are pleased with indulging refpeCi
and veneration, and that pleasure colts little or
nothing. There is no competition to excite jea
lousy, or alarm avarice.
Another reason that may be afligned for our
admiring the ancient republics in so high a degree,
is, that the different periods of their exiltence
are marked with a vast variety of tragical inci
dents. The human mind is delighted with what
ever is marvellous. This is one of the earlielt
propensities, that discovers itfelf in our nature.
Every man occasionally feels within himfelf a lan
guor andliftlefliiefs of mind ; from which, he takes
a pleasure in being roused. Ke is apt to affix a fa
vorable idea to almolt any cause, which has di
verted him, in those moments of heaviness and
infipiJity. This will generally be the cafe, un
less the incident which enlivens his feelings, is
attended with immediate or personal inconve
nience. With what eagerness, do we read ac
counts of maflacres, treasons, inundations and
earthquakes : When these happen at a distance,
we do not fed so much pain for the miserable fate
ol thole, who are involved in the distress, as we
0 at being roused and llimulated into a
Rigorous Itate of mind. No inference difhon'orable
:° human nature can be drawn from this reason-
J' one of the -sources of gratification,
is always innocent and sometimes ufeful.
1 inconveniences it produces does not counter
balance the advantages. We should however be
on om " guard, in drawing conclusions relative to
or own conduct. Causes, which excite admira
-IQn, u:ive a molt powerful influence, in seducing
j ls into error ot opinion. The reason of man
t ? es I,s balance, while the mind is employed in
1-act of admiring. In tills view of the matter,
lowl proper, that youth lliould not be al
liill' au unreitrained liberty, in reading ancient
as f°l? • lna y acquire opinions and feelings
3cious > as an unbounded indulgence in
ing novels can produce.
ex<^r,' e j^ mar ' ts are only introductory to a more
ter J the l'ubjedt,which lhall hereaf
reflp^ Car ' ' nt^e mean time,the reader will let his
blylT 101 * 3 'he deficiency, Which uiiavoida
- a ppeuedfroin this partial and imperfe.it ellay.
From SATURDAY, May 9, to W E D N E S D AY, May 13, 1759.
of the POLITICAL STATE of
AMERICA.
NUMBER VII.
THE leading features of the Magna Cliarta of
Ameiica, or that mutual compact which now
unites her citizens, by one common bond, are
strongly imprcfied with the genius and character
of the people who formed it, and who will be
fubjecft to its future controul : FREEDOM, or
the MA J ESI y Of 1 HE PEOPLE, is wrote in Ca
pitals upon the face of the Plan, and its tenor and
l'ubltance bespeaks a critical acquaintance with
the rights of mankind in its compilers, with a
sacred regard to the perpetuating thole rights,
unimpaired, to the latest posterity.
fhis beautiful compilat ion originated from the
people, the only pure fountain and source of all
lawful power—nor were they, when called to
form it, under any duress of mind, or undue bias,
but prompted to the execution by principles of
pati iotifm, and with a view to reciprocal advan
tage, having the " Salus Populi" for the pole Star
of their conduct.
Among the particular traits of the System above
attended to, which claim our attention, may be
placed the periodical elections of those, who are
to administer it; as alio the liberal principles up
on which those elections are formed, which,
while they ensure a remedy for a corrupt admi
nistration, serve also as a preventive against the
difeal'e they are calculated to cure, affording a
conltant check to the progress of ill-directed in
tentions, and improper actions—and have the
further good influence of presenting future op
portunities for the enjoyment of the honors of
their country, to those who are found to deserve
them, thereby constantly encouraging a virtuous
emulation among the members of the society,
which operates but faintly, if at all, in those go
vernments, where the adventitious circumfiances
of birth, or fortune, give the only claim to emi
nence and preferment : Many more are the moral
and political advantages, which mull be derived
from this part of our excellent Constitution ; but
as detail is not here my I (hall proceed to
a view of fovne other general principles, which
presage equal benefit :/ Among which, may be
ranked those ltrong guards, against every kind of
monopoly, or exclusive advantages to be granted
to any class of citizens, in preference to another,
arilingfrom a good heart, great abilities, and su
perior merit, is acknowledged to be the only l'up
port of an American Aristocracy.
Freedom of IJjeech, and debates, and an mn
reftrained use of the Press, will operate as pow
erful auxiliaries, in chcrifhing and supporting
the future Liberties jof the country, by their na"
tural tendency to check and fruftrate the ill de
signs of men in power, and who, though unre
strained by the admonitions of confcicnce, that
faithful Monitor over all human actions, will
dread the stigma of a contemning public.
That relief of the mind from religious thral
dom, which has been productive of so many evils
in other countries, and which is so completely
guarded against in America, ltands among the
foremoll of those great charaCteristics, which give
her form of government a preference to any one
extant: Here the infallibility of the Pope is with
humility contradicted, while the magic power of
his foot, thrils with but faint and feeble palpita
tions : Here the kind aid of the civil arm, is 110
longer exerted to destroy, by fire and sword, the
bodies of men, in order to save their fouls : Here
without subscribing to thirty-nine articles, which
thirty-nine times in a day are frequently broken,
a person can be admitted to the privileges and
honors of his country : It is here that true Reli
gion presents her alluring and captivating charms
in resplendent lustre : A recluse and monastic
life, is 110 longer supposed to adorn the votaries
of Cliriftianity : But those actions, which are
prompted by the molt diffufive benevolence, are
esteemed the molt grateful incense to that Deity,
who is benevolence and love.
In America, Religion waves her peaceful ban
ners, courting, by her intrinsic merits, that obe
dience to her service, which any adventitious
power has ever been found inadequate to effect.
AMEIIICANUS.
(To be continued.)
EXTRACT FROM "AMERICAN ESSAYS.*
ON DUELLING.
A BRAVE and virtuous man, " dares do all
that may become a man, who dares do more is
none." A good citizen will ever respeCt his ru
lers, and rev ere the laws, and must therefore be
averse to the committing any act unlawful, or
unjust ; he will blufif at the palpable injuries,
and daring effrontery of the man, who in a ci\ -
zlized state shall aflume the power of judgino*and
determining in his own cause ; he can not admit
thatthelaws of honor,fupercede those of reafoh,
religion and nature ; he can not conceive that
any man has a right to determine at will that ano
ther has offended liim, and infill that the fuppo
led offender shall acknowledge what he know ;»*.<>r '
believes to be falfe, or deliberately consent to h
murdered, or become a murderer ; he fonfiblv
feels that his country, his amiable wife, and
innocent, promiffing infants, are not beneath
a gentleman's notice ; and that he has no right
to rob them of his services, kind offices, support
and protection ; he believes that in Heaven there
is no exclusive privilege for gentlemen ; and
that he cannot plead the laws of modern hopor
before the sacred bar of unerring juflice : But,
O tempora ! O mores ! He feels too sensibly the
force of cruel cultom, and knows not how to
avoid the guilt, without dif'grace ; a most impi -
ous cultom has lanCtified the crime, .and made
the apprehensions of unjuit reproach more dread
ful to the christian, than damnation : Such is the
folly and depravity of this Qiiixotijh age, that a
man dares not be just to himfelf, his family, or
his country,leafl he should incur the odium of be
ing afraid to die, or to shed a little innocent
blood ; and though he should have llain an host
oi: his country's foes in the field of battle, yet
these shall not secure liis fame in the opinion of
the honorable fanatics, should he decline to llain
his name with fafhionable murder ; as there might
probably be some so bafe,and malignant, as to .»i
----fecft to believe, that the hero was more afraid of
death; than of the crime ; and the force ofcui
tom, and the fear of reproach, are now become
so powerful and obligatory, that he mull be more
or less than man, who can avoid faCri;iciiig every
thing precious, estimable, sacred, and truly ho
norable, in compliancc with the foolifh fafcinat
ing phantom called honor : Yet duelling has fqme
times only proved to be a little fclieme, of little
minds, to build a l.ttle fame ; it is often a brazen
Ihield,forged by desperate gam biers,and (harpers,
toprotect their tender names from truth's search
ing painful probe ; apl finely those, whose cha
racters will stand test of public inquisition,
can never with rcafon and propriety, resort to
this slender, doubtful, desperate fupportv it is
therefore devoutly to be wilhed, that no real gen
tleman would be guilty of an act, that not only
tarnishes his name, but renders it fufpecfted of
former taints, by confounding it vith those who
have no other means to lupport their pretentions
to a decent character, or continue their ruinour.
connexions with gentlemen ; and who, but for
this infamous tenure, would be expelled all re
putable society, but are now admitted into all
companies, who by the laws of honor are obliged
to be civil to those impudent, intruding harpi?s,
or to fight them ; and thus are the young, unful
pe<fting, and unwary, often honorably e«tfed of
their fortunes.
As duelling therefore,has evidently no other ten
dency, but to prove raJhnefs, folly, or guilt, it is
certainly a mode ofdecifion, that should be held
in themoft sovereign contempt,by every intrinsic
gentleman : Suppose a desperate game iter should
offer to flake afmn equal to a gentleman's whole
fortune on the throw of a die, would he not be
condemned as a madman, or a fool, who should
lillen to such apropofal! But should the gamelter
choose to put the gentleman's more important
life, at an equal, or perhaps greater hazard, the
laws of honor have decreed,that he shall die a fool,
or survive a felo?i. Such is the precarious tenure
of our lives at this day, that if any nijin is tired
of life, and chooses me for his butcher, or if he
takes a fancy to cut my throat, or blow my brains
out, he fends me a polite card to meet him at a
particular time and place ; I am bound in honor
to attend, and death closes the tragi-comi-farci
cal scene.
And can we, in our sober senses, be drawn into
this difgraceful and deflru<ftive vortex,in pursuit
ot an empty bubble, swelling only with the
found ol honor ? Can the soldier pluck the dear
bought laurels from his brow,and transplant them
on a dunghill ? Can he descend from the hero to the
murderer ? Can he {lain his glory with his bro
ther's blood ? Or, can he lloop to die,like bullies,
gamblers,madmen,boys and fools ? Can aman of
sense, cool, temperate, and dispassionate, resolve
against nature, reason and conviction, to close a
life of uniform virtue, with a crime ? Can he ap
proach Death in the mask of an hypocrite, and
with affected composure, flrive to hide a bleeding
heart ? Can the tender father, andfondhulband,
deliberately draw the cruel dagger, to give the
fatal flab to the future peace of his innocent
family ? Can the Patriot rob his country of an use
PRICE SIX PENCE.ful prop ? Can he (Lire to cancel the mrift sacred
ties of society, and audaciously trample on the
Laws of God, and his Country ? Can any man im
piously presume to ruih unbidden into the presence
of an offended God, by a voluntary acft, in con
fcious violation of Laws, human and divine ? It
must be so It is the epidemic madness of the
age, which no Laws, wisdom, or power, but that
of a Pruftau Monarch, have yet been able radically
to cure. £• C.
FROM THE SAME.
THE LONDON CIT.
LONDON is the world in miniature ! thrice
happy Cockneigh ! who can'lt fafely fee those hor
rid monsters, which erst prowled the dreary de
serts of remotest regions, led captive to thy Tow
er ; there, thou may'ft approach, fearlefs of their
dire fangs, and dreadful rage, and equally ft
cure from the more baneful influence of thole
barbarous climes,which them engendered: There,
dry-lhod, thou may'ft fee trophies of bloody fields,
and all the glittering implements of war, in bril
liant order ranged : There, thou can'lt view a
Crown, decked with the richest spoils of diltant
Ihores :—Thou too once more can'lt boalt a na
tive King ; but here defcrjption fails : Crimes
lose their color when applied to Kings : A King
can do no wrong: MURDER IS ROYAL SPORT :
Great GEORGE the Third !( ajlet theghofts of mur
dered (b) Millions, whose putrid carcases have
Itained pure Ganges' sacred ft ream ; or fed the
Vultures, on the desert plains of the once fertile
Sip a, (peak to thy feeling mind, paternal fraife :
Let RAVAGED AMERICA preserve her monu
mental bones, sacred to Thee, and Kings : Let the
loss of an immense Empire, and the price of King
doms lavished in vain, to obtain a Pepper-Corn,
proclaim thy wisdom : Let the brave and virtuous
surviving foils of victorious, independent Ameri
ca, declare thy Power.
Stupendous London ! where brutes are taught to
act like men, and men like brutes ; where the
learned Pig (c) gives wholesome leflons to the un
lettered Lord; and upbraids the
balhfulSoldier ; andlhewsthe ltall-fed, paniper'd
Git, how hardly earned, and dearly bought, the
bread and laurels of the brave.
Thou too, blelt Cockneigh ! haft a magazine of
wonders ycleped Museum ! There thou may'ft fee
the harmless native coats of beasts, and birds, anil
quondam, noxious, frightful, creeping things, of
multifarious kinds ! rare infedts too ! foffils, and
other strange, and curious things ! and thou ex
ulting, can'lt behold, towering o'er thy lofty
spires, the " cloud-capt" Dome of thy St. Paul's,
as Rome her great St. Peter's: Thy pretty mo
dern Obelifts peep forth—humble epitomes of
the aspiring pyramids of Egypt ! And thou can'lt
boast, at thy Vauxhall, of thy little, curious, gen
tly-murmuring, glittering, tin Cascade ; sweet,
rnodelt emblem, of the roaring, thundering, deaf
ning, cataracts of Niagara, in the savage wilds of
America ; these allay thy temperate thirst, and
thus, without toil, or peril, dost thou poilefs all
that the world affords of rich and rare—pleased
with the flattering, fond idea, that thy Mother's
lap contains them all.
NOTES. '
(a) This piece was written some time before His Britannic Ma
jesty's Phylicur.s declared him in fine ; but years alter the Ameri
cans thought him so.
si) Three millions of poor innocent people were said to be
starved to death in the kingdom of Bengal, by the monopoly o;
Rice, contrived by the servants of the Eait-India company, for th.
purpose of gain : Their bodies flopped the great river i.anges
and others were strewed over the fields and roads of their nativf
country : And yet, at such a time of hoiror and diilrcfs, it tht
farmers failed to bring in their taxes to the Company, they i*:rc
taken without any form of trial, tied fact round the middle, and
suspended from a hook in a post—the circulation being thereby
totally flopped from all communication with the lower parts o!
the body, in the course of a few days they rotted off in that cli
mate, while the remainder of the body dill retained lite !
(c) At some of the Theatres in London, a Hog, called the learn
ed Pig, is introduced on the llage, and required to spell any po
lysyllable propofedby any one of the companj—the letters ol th
alphabet are written in capitals on feperate pieces of paper, anc
thrown promiscuously on the ftage—from these the Hog picks ou
the letters that compose the word, in regular order, and carrit:
ihem in his mouth, one by one, to his mailer.
fti) Dogs are introduced to storm a fort—they are dreflcd in i
military uniform, and scale the walls through a very hot fiie.
FROM THE SAME.
THE FEDERAL SHIP
Is now ready for sea, let us therefore proceed
011 our voyage without further delay, and with
the help of able navigators we may expedt ere
long, to establish a due confidence at home and
abroad, and to reap the rich fruits of an extenfrve
commerce and credit : If we should want to bor
row, there will not be wanting those who will
lend, when there is a fair profpett of being re
paid.
And it is impofiible toafcertain, before out
Clip is afloat, whether lhe will fail exactly upon
an even keel, it is palpably absurd to keep hei
longer in dock, through fear that she may poflibly
have a lift to port, or itar board. We have, alas
loft many of our belt and ablest hands, who for
w ant of employ at home, are gone into foreign
service : The French and Engli/h exult in the
acquisition, and as it strengthens them, and wea
kens us, the policy of nations cannot point out
two stronger motives to jifive them all pollible en
couragement : There are many more who will
loon be obliged to follow them, urged by the fame
diftrefles, unless we can speedily find employment
for them : This may be conlidered not only a
great, but an irreparable loss, as they are iucli
men, as cannot be replaced. Let us therefore
seriously refledt, before it be too lute, that though
our Ship may not be quite so perfect as ihe might
pofliblyhave been conftructecl, yet there appears
no def eats,but what may be mended on the voyage;
but by keeping her too long out of employ, we
may become foexhaufted, and iinpoverifhecl, that
we may at last findourfelves unable to fit her out,
and shall then be driven to the iiard necelfity
either to CHARTER her, or let lierperifli by the
walls.
Tacitus fays : Nihil in difcordiis civilibus fef
" tinatione tutius, übifaflo mag'ts quam confulto op:n
" effet." And again : Nullus cunClutioui tocut ejt in
" eo confilio, quod non poteji laudari nift pera&um."
" Nec cunt att one opus, übi per?iiciofor ft quiet, quarn
" temeritas." E. C.
[The following cannot require an apology for its re-publication.~\
To THE PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
OFT times, when rapture fwellsthe heart,
Expreflive fiJence can impart
More full the joy sublime :
Thus WASHINGTON, my wond'ring mind,
In every grateful ardor jo in'd,
Tho' words were out ot time.
The muse of peaceful lhade,
Gave way to all the gay parade
For transports of her own ;
She felt the tear of pleasure flow,
And gratitude's delightful glow
Was to her bosom known.
Triumphal arches—gratulating song,
And shouts of welcome from the mixed throng,
Thy laurels cannot raise.
We pi aife ourselves ; exalt our name,
And in the scroll of time, we claim
An int'reft in thy bays.
But 'erst on Hudson's whit'ned plain,
Where the blue mists enlhroud the slain,
And Hero's spirits came ;
Anxious to seal thy future fate,
Each on his cloud, in awful state,
Pronounc'd thee good as well as great,
And fill'd thy cup of fame.
While we the favorites of Heaven,
To whom these western climes are given,
And halcyon days await,
May bless oui (elves, and bless our race,
That God by his peculiar grace
Chose thee to rule the state.
Fame as she flies, her trump shall found,
To all the admiring nations round,
And millions yet unborn,
Will read the history of this day,
And as they read will pause—and fay
, Here nature took a turn.
For in the annals of mankind,
Who ever saw a compact bind
An empire's utmost bound ;
Who ever saw ambition stand,
Whuhout the power to raise her hand,
Wnile ONE th* people crown'd.
NtW'Jfcrfey, May 1789.
PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES.
Saturday, May g, 1789.
The bill regulating the collettion of the impost,
was read a second time.
The House then went into a Committee on the
bill, for laying certain duties on goods, wares,
and merchandise.
Mr. Tucker proposed a reduction upon distil
led spirits Jamaica proof, introductory to a ge
neral deduction from the funis annexed to the
fpecified articles in the bill—This was support
ed with great spirit by several Speakers-
High duties, it was contended would operate
unequally and oppreflively—would produce smug
gling and defeat the views of Government by
leflening the revenue—they would contravene
the ideas and expectations formed by the peo
ple, under the administration of the new consti
tution—upon the danger and disagreeable con
sequences of smuggling much was urged—that it
wouldbe extremely,difficult if not impossible topre
vent it to a very great degree,as muftbe obvious to
.hose who contemplated our local conveniences
or it—that to calculate upon the virtue, and pa
diotifm of individuals, when powerful tempta
tions were presented to disregard both, would
be found fallacious.—Moderate duties leflened
he inducements to fraud, would make fmuo-.
gling infamous, and make the collection less ex
ljeniive, and lupercede the neceflity of an unpo
pular, and rigorous system.
In support of the duties as they now stand, it
was equally well observed, that the system hav
ing had three different discussions, it should seem
as if nothing eilentially new or important could
be offered upon the subject.
That the duties proposed had been the result
of much inveftigationof the subject—that it was
hardly probable that a change of sentiments
could take place.— 1 lie duties it was allowed were
high in some instances, compared to what had
been paid by some of the States, but not so high
as had been collected in others, and were in
proportion to those collected in other countries—
L hat it was merely matter of opinion whether
duties Avei'e high or low—that high duties o:i
some articles weie easier collected, than low up
on others —-that it was conformant to the ideas y:d |
wishes of the people—that luxuries Ihould be
taxed high—that notwithllanding it was so eai.
ueftly contended to reduce the impost in gene
al, it would be found that the amount to be
produced upon the fyfteni now under considera
tion, it was 10 be appi ehended would prove in- (
fuflicieMt for the public exigencies.
The question being put 011 the proposition of
Mr. Tucker, it was negatived. 261019.
Monday, May 11, 1789.
A meflage from the Senate, purporting that
they had appointed a committee 10 join with liicif
committee as the Houl'e may appoint, to confer
upon the fubjeift of a title which it may be pro
per to give to the President of the United States
was read—
Upon which Mr. Parker moved, that arefo
lntion Ihould be adopted to tins eftedt—That the
House, could not concur-with the Senate, having
already decided upon the subject unanimously.
Mr. Page supported the motion—he was fully
of opinion, that by the Constitution the Houle
had neither a right to suggest or propose anything
upon the subject: He considered it as anti-repub
lican, and apprehended great evils would refnlt
si 0111 the measure, Ihould Congreft take any steps
in it : He conceived that the real honor and dig
nity of the government, did not consist in, or de
pend upon titles, and that he had had his ieel
ings hurt, when he heard gentlemen addr el's the
members of that House by the stile of "The Hon.
Member He thought that the House had already
fully and explicitly declared its fentinients, inthe (
report of a former committee, and was sorry to,
have the fubjedt again introduced.
Mr. Tucker was in fentimentwith Mr.Page,
but observed further, That he had always been
opposed to the appointment of any committee in
the firft of the business—and was equally averse
from taking it up now: The Constitution was
expressly against giving any titles whatever: The
introduction of them would bring us back to mo
narchy, and would juftify what had been faidup
-011 the Constitution by its enemies.—What coulJ
be the delign of the Senate ? Did General Waft
ington wiJh for a title Did he fight for this !by
no means. —Real dignity coivGfts not in tbefe dis
tinctions : Titles bring equipage, etiquette, pa
rade, &.C. to fuppo t these, liberty mult be l'acr;-
ficed : And from fullainig the character of inde
pendent freemen, wefhall degenerate intolervi
lity—we shall no longer be men—we ltiall depre
ciate into apes—a baseness of imitation. Mr.
Tucker concluded, bywilhing the subject might
be difmifled,
Mr. Trumbull moved for a committee,to er.-
quire into the difference which appeared in the
votes of the two Houfes,upon the report of the join'
committee upon this f übject, as now held out ffl
the meflage from the Senate.
Mr. Bukke was opposed to any further pro
ceedings in the bufiHels, except it was to expref
their entire disapprobation—and to that purpose
he proposed a refolutionagainft the introductioi
of any tide, more especially all imitations of Euro
peanlliles, or titles, whether given to Emperor
Kings, Princes other dignitaries whatever
Mr. Madison was in opinion with gentle®'
opposed to a title—he was not however, for ft®
mary proceedings with the 111 efiage of the Senate
he urged the propriety of a decent and reipeci
ful attention to it upon a variety of principle 1
and then observed—that he could not fee the u 1
or advantage of adopting titles, that it was
dent that they did dot confer power or influence*
many of the poorest and most infignificant Stat'
hadaffumed the most pompous and high fouiW
titles—what greater or more lofty title could
afliuned, than that of " High Mighdnefles
a stile almost bordering upon impiety —what "*
advantages had been deriv ed from it ? Had eveif
functioned the idea ? Titles he considered as«|
constitutional and contrary to the general fen
ment of the people Should it be determine 1 '
adopt them, we must either borrow or enti
tle! ones we should find inapplicable, and 11
would be considered as servile imitations, ®
nev> ones, he feared, would beabfurd and ri®
lous.—The true dignity of a republican
ment, he considered as independent oft l *''
he hoped that gentlemen woi.ldnot difco' ver l
warmth upon the occasion—had no doubt butT
fame unanimity would now be fliown as
upon this question, and he was therefore in *'7
of a committee of conference.
Mr. White was opposed to the appoint®
of a committee of conference, and fuppo' e
best to put a period to any further difcuifion,
informing the Senate, that the House had al rl
dy determined the question; by unaninw
adopting the repoVt of the joint committee «?
this fubjeCt.s h erman fuppqfed there tvould be an
• c'nriety in appointing a committee, unlel's
ihould tiilt rel'cindj their former vote—
X ' K ' ht that to make "the journals appear con
( "this was a previous question.
! f ckson' observed, that although he was
i opposed to titles and diftinOtJons as any
: '.V! ~iaii whatever; he thought however, that
■ as a propriety in appointing a committee
' -conference, that the result being known,
prevent the publication of ridiculous and
' 'a""* contradictions and titles in the news-pa
'.r. which had a tendency to bring the govern
fuer.i into contempt.
v, Madison thought that J Ir. Sherman's
: j f - nor just. he supposed that a commit
• ce'mi'bt be appointed with as much propriety
.-"i.-efent cafe as in any other, and alligned
"\viftvof reasons to p'-ove thatt I .': fubjeec was
o "diicvUHon, and that every dictate of po
licv and found judgment, pointed out the expe
dic' -j paying all poiiibie i efpect and attention
\tc t j lC communications of the Senate.
Mr. Sen £ y exnreffed his mind fully iji oppofi
t'c:i ta a committer, as he coniidered the mea
sure frui:lef-,and occaiioned a loss of time—wifli
edthat Mr. Packer's motion might be adopted,
and ail end put to the bufmefs.
Mr. Clv " er was oppoled to the conferring of
titles, observed, that the moil impotent nations
ail'umed the moil pompous addreiles—that they
were r.i>t indicative of power and influence wai
evi eiitjfi om fads, fcr when the Kings of Eng
land, had or.;/ the title of HIGHNESS, then
j'c.e'S'.tivo was mli- li greater than it had been
lince under that of Molt Sacred Majeilv.—lie
pilfered however, from gentlemen, who l'uppo
fed that the peaple were uverfe fromdiftinCtions.
Jt was evident he laid from a variety of fac'ts,
that they had a powerful predilection for them,
ar.c! rhispropenlu;. tie thought should be counter
acted and checked
Mr. Page obfer\ed, that titles nam rally led
to honors and distinctions not founded always
oil meiit, till In time the Supreme ixecutivc
comes to be confides ed as the fountain of honor.
Inducing a train of coni'equeiices derogatory to
the dignity of a ft ecman.
Mr. Lee moved that the previous question
Ihould be taken in words ta the follow ing effedt!
Whether the House would now proceed to con
sider the fubjedt of the meflage from the Senate,
—this palled in the affirmative.
A variety of motions were then introduced—
and the one from Mr. Trumbull, w as adopted tc
the following effect. '1 hataconnnitteebeappoint
ed to confer with the committee of the Senate,
upon the difference which appears in the votes of
\)ie two Houses, upon the evidence in report
of the joint committee, itpon the question ref
pcifting titles the vote of the Senate; ap
pointing a committee to take up the lame fub
jed upon quite opposite principles.
This "nio.lon being adopted, Mr. Madison,
Mr. Trumbull, M*. Page, Mi'-Sherman, and
Mr. Benson, were appointed.
A meliage from the Senate was then lead, in
forming the House, that ih&y had appointed a
committee confiding of Mr. Few, Mr. Macklay,
and Mr. Strong, to join with a committee of tlic
House, for the purpose ot viewing the appart
ments in the city-hall, and to determine how
they should be appropriated—Mr. Scott, Mr.
White, and Mr. Stcrgis, were appointed.
The House then resolved ltfelf into a commit
tee of the whole, when the impost bill was ta
ken up.—Mr. Gerry proposed, that fix cents on
molafies fliould beftruckout, and two inserted—
This produced a debate, in which Mr. Ames,
and Mr. Ma dison, were the principal speakers,
but the House adjourned without coming to a
vote upon the proportion.
TuEshAY, May lv.
A petition from J didiah Morse, author of
the American Geography, praying the interposition
of government to secure to him his property in
that publication ; also, that the law may extend
to the prevention of curtailing, epitomizing,
or altering that work, or the maps that it con
tains, to the injury.of the author and compiler.
A petition from some of the inhabitants of
New-Jcrfey, in opposition to a former petition
upon the futjeel of the election of that States'
national Representatives, was read.
Committee of elections reported a number of
papers (titles and refer ences to which were read)
as adaii'l Ue evidence in the cafe of the Hon.
Willi ah, Smith, member from South Carolina.
1 he House then took up the Order of the Day,
and proceeded to the choice of a Serjeant at Arms.
The petitions and accompanying certificates from
t ie several candidates were th;h read—and the
ballots being collected, it was found that Mr. —
Whe to n . was chosen.
The report of the cominiftee appointed to con
fer with a committee q( the Senate, refpe<fting
'he (lii-.'jf'al 0 ; ; jn e public papers in the ofiice of
I ie lu;e Continental Secretary was read, by which
appeared, rhaf those papers were removed from
.c 1 ■-<*- office, were now deposited in a room
in the C ity Hall : The committee stlfo reported,
v-w/'i'w/efs would probably think proper,from
the nature and. importance of tliofe papers, to
make some arangement respecting tliem,accepted.
In Committee of the whole.
The Impost Bill was taken up, and the debate
upon the duty of 6 cents anmolafles wasref'umed.
Speeches upon this occasion, were similar to
those which had been made upon the previous
discussion of the subject : Many of the former
ideas in favour of a reduction of the duty, were
amplified, and the substitution of an Excise on
Rum and other spirits distilled in the country,
was contended for—on the fide of the question
the speakers were Mr. Ames, Mr. Gerry and
Mr. Goodhue—their observations were closed
by a proportion, to strike out fix cents and leave
a blank forthe sum to be annexed—The speakers
on the other fide were Mr. Madison, Mr. Fitz
simons and Mr. Sherman—This part of the
question had 'fequal justice done to it, and the
vote on the above proposition being taken, it
pafled in the affirmative.
It was then moved that the blank fliould be
filled with five cents, this after some further de
bate pafled in the affirmative, byavote of 2Jto 23.
A mefluge from the Senate, was at this stage
of the business announced, when the commit
tee rose—The purport of this meflage was, that
the Senate concurred with the House in the ap
pointment of a c6jnmittee, to confer with the
committee of the Senate upon the disagreeing
\ otes of the two Houses on the report of the
joint committee, upon\the fubjetft of titles pro
ne. to be annexed to the President and Vice-
Prefldent—The Speaker having again left the
chair.—The House in corhmittee of the whole
continued the consideration of the impost bill,
when the several articles from molalles to teas
ini'li::ive, were read and accepted in committee
in the bill.—Hyson tea was substituted in lieu of
" fuperipr green tea." Adjourned.
PHILADELPAIA, May 8.
Ext raff of a letter from New-York, May 3.
" I w s extrcmeU anxious to ai rive hen-, in order to be pre
sent at the meeting of the President and the two Houses. That
event, however, did not tyke place till Thursday lad, when
Ins !' i.s"iDF.NT was on.ilifted in the open gallery of the Con
gress House, :n the fight oi many thousand people. The fcenc
w.'s f.lenin and aw'.ul, bey lui dt ter 1 p'.i'>n. It would seem cx
traoi c;; 1. ;ry, that the adminiflration of an oath, a ceremony so ve
ry common and familia , ftiould, in so great a degree, excite the
pub'i eurlofity. But the clrcumitance> oi his fle£lion—'lie im
pieff.on of hh pr.ft fer\ ices—the concourse of fpeftators—tlie de
vout i\'iv r. v with v. l■. hh, repeat.d the ouh —and the revere 11-
rial niana r in which he bowed down and kilTed thefaered vo,
luint—all these eonfpired to render it one of the mod august and
lilt- letting (pedaci.: ever exhibited on this globe. It deemed,from
i. : e number 0} witnelfs, to be a solemn appeal to lleaven and
e?:th at once. Upon the fuj>ie£t of this great and good Man, I
maw pei h?ps. be an t nrhufiaft, but I confef,, tl:at I was under an
iv tul and religious peifualion, that the gracious Ruler of the
imuv 1 ie wis! (v.k-p'; d-»wn at th.it moment v. iih pec uliar compla
> siM y' '< «>n aCr.wtm li to a p «*t ot bis creatuies was so very impor
tant. Under this impression, when the Chancellor pronounced,
m 'v v.. : 1 -1:: 1 ir Miner. " Lono live George Washington,"
my fcmiturtv was wound up to fin h a pitch, that I could dq 110
more than.Wave my hat with the reft, without the power of join
ing in the repeated acclamations which rent the air."
NEW-YORK, MAY i 3.
I all Saturday the M \yor and Membeisol the Corpoi ition of
this City, attended by the proper Officers, waited on The Pr esi
de roi the I ItidSt at es, and presented the following AD
DRIS6S:
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
S I R,
The Mayor, Aldermen and Commonalty of the City of New-
York, be ; leave to oiler you -»ur most refp ctiul and alTeftionatc
■ ongratuiations on your l.ife arrival in this Metropolis, and at the
time time, to exprels the geneialjoyof our fellow cih/ ns, of
every order, on this auspicious event.
In thus prefrnting ourfclves before von, we experience all
emotions which naturally ariie from a hi; 1 veneration for your
eiiaraCier—an t:\altedfenfeof yourfervicts—and a perfect con
viction that a trull, trc mod momentous which could be confer
ed by a lie< pe».pie, h.>a been committed to a citizen, who has given
u 111 (j 1:1 \ oc,!i nr., «i s of hi> po(T< (Tingall the good and great qualities,
rcquifite to its fuccefsful discharge.
W.th peculiar pU afure, Sir, we recall to mind that illuflrious
difpl.:\ ot w;.'dom, virtue, and valor, which difhnguifhed
your military commind. With cv.;ual pleasure we recollect the
exemplary moderation wh'ch marked your ictreat from the head
o! a victorious army to the shade 0} private life. Permit us to
add that we contemplate with pious latitude that unparalelled
coincidence of circumstances which has conftramed you, hy mo.
lives that patriotism could not refill, to re-engage in the arduous
duties of a public Ration.
Long in the habit of revering you as the father of our country,
we rejoice at the happmehof b'-inj; once moie placed under your
plote&ion; we consider the unjnunity which prevailed in your
.ipp'ointment, as a presage that oui national government will be
firmly eftabliftied in the hearts of all the people, and receive
their %jnitcd and zealous support; and we are fully persuaded
that under the diyine favoi, will be productive of
the most cxtonlive bcnc&t| and bicffings, and render the union
respeCtable in peace, as under your auspices, it w»s triumphant
in war.
To our most fervent wishes for your personal happiness, and
for the success of your administration, we should not do justice
to the fentunents of our fellow-citizens, if we did not add the
strongest a flu ranees of their inviolable attachment to you, and of
their earntft disposition to render you all the support which can
flow from the most cordial respeCt, gratitude and confidence.
Signed in behalf of the Corporation, 1
JAMES DUANE, Mayor.
May Q, 1789.
To which the President was pleased to make the following answer
To the Mayor, Aldermen and Commonalty of the City of New-York.
Gentlemen,
The afte&ionate address prefenttd bv the Magistrates, and the
general joy teftified by thq citizens of New-York, on my arri
val in thi< metropolis, have filled my mind with the mingled
emotions of gratitude and fatisfaction.
lit accepting the momentous trust, which has been fpontaqe
oufly committed to me by a free people, it was not enough to
have felt a consciousness of having aCted in conformity to the
dictates of patriotism; it was not enough to have known that I
met the wishes of my fellow-citizens; but it seemed that thefc far
ther pledges were wanttng to overcome the diffidence I lud in
my dwn abilities, and the relu&ance I experienced, at engaging
in such new and arduons affairs.
Unelated by your too favorable appreciation of my pad fervi
ccs, I can only pour forth the effufions of ? grateful heart to
Heaven, if I have been made in any degree an indrument of gobd
to my country* And, although lam far from claiming any me
rit for retiring in the manner I did, from a military command,
to the (hade ot private life; yet I am pleased to find that yotir
candour has done justice to the principles by which I hive been
a&uated on the present occasion. No circumdance, in my con
ception, can be more consolatory to a public hian, especially to
one truly sensible that the purfcft intentions cannot always pre
lerve hi in from error, than a knowledge that his countrymen 2re
disposed to consider the motives for his condu& with that libera
lity, which is reciprocally neceflary for all whb are fubje£t to the
frailties of Jiuman nature.
In this place I cannot avoid exprefling an anxious apprehension,
that the partiality ol my countrymen in my favor hr\s induced
.hem to expert too much from the exertions of an individual.
It is from their co-operation alone, I derive all my expectations
ot fuccefs.—lndeed, the unanimity which has prevailed in some
i'ndances, is a happy presage that our national povernmmt w:!l
be firmly eitablifhed in the hearts of the people, and receive
their united and zealous support.—From the accommodating
spirit which has been displayed in relpeft to the condicution, I
anticipate that the government will, in its operation, be produc
tive- ot the mod extensive utility, by rendering the Union as rc!-
pcftable in peace as it was triumphant in war.
I feel a just sense of your fervent wiflies for my personal hap
piness and the fucccfs of my adminidration. I pray you, gen
tlemen, to accept in return, my cordial thanks for these demon-
II rations of your affe£lion, as well as for the assurances you have
given of the attachment of our fellow-citizens.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
Extratt of a letter from Madras, Sept. 10, 1788.
" The Englifti it is said are a! War with some of TippoSaib's
family ; but the people here are in such perfect slavery and fub
jeftion, that no particular information can be obtained. I saw
large quantities of military {lores and troops embarked from this
place, with the utmod di(patch.
' Three large (hips, filled with troops, failed five days pad ;
but nothing has tranfpued since."
Extracts of letters from Bojlon—April 29, 1789.
" Ycderday there was a considerable seizure of Goods, run in
from Philadelphia, Silks, Calicoes, &c. in bread-casks ; as also a
quantity of Sugars, for (hort entry.
" There will be great vigilance to detefl smuggling, when'the
Federal a6ts are in force—you may depend on it."
May 7, 1789.
" Wehavejud received from New-York, the Speech of our
POLITICAL FATHER, to both Houses of Congress. It con
tains sentiments, which warm every heart, and animate every seri
ous mind.
" I read it to a circle of friends,but could not avoid involuntary
pauses, nor suppress the rising tear, with aspirations to Heaven for
the author.
" There is but one fentimcnt refpe&ing it here UNIVER
SAL APPLAUSE.
4t To the virtuous, which always includes the sentimental part
of the community, it causes sensations too pleasurable and strong,
to Ik tranferibed from the heart—as it seems to insure a blefling
upon the government, and felicity to our country, agreeably to
the woj-ds of inlpiration, " when the righteous arc in authority, the
beopie rejoice.
44 May every legislator, and every officer in the United States,
imitate the sublime example before them, and our Nation will
loon rife to glory." '
Yederday the Company at Th e President's was highly re
fpedablr, and much more numerous than utual.
We hear the State of Connecticut are about presenting every
Member of the New Congress, with cloth fufficient for a suit of
zloaths ; and that it is to be manufactured in that State, and of one
:olour.
In His Britannic Majefly's Packet, Tankerville, came paffen-
Francis Van Berkel, Esq. Resident from their High
Mi s '!itine(les the States General of the United Netherlands, to the
Linked States ; and Mis. Cm; kh, daughter of the Hon. Phihu
Scuyler.
THEATRE.
On Monday evening, The President of the United States,
His Excellency the Viee-Prefident, His Excellency the Governor,
His Excellency theCounr De Moudier, and several other foreign
ers and natives of didin&ion, honored the Theatre with their pre
fenee. There was a mod crouded house, and the ladies who
were numerous made a mod brilliant appearance. The judici
ous choice of performances for the evening, and the proper af
(lijnmentof the parts to suitable charatters, rendered the exhibi
tion in a high degree entertaining.
On the 28th ult. died, at Pittsburgh, in Pennsylvania, Thomas
Hutchins Esq. Geographer-General to the United States ; a gen
tleman, whose abilities, aud moded deportment through life,
gained him the applause and edeem of all who were acquainted
with him.
Mr. Fenno,
AN American Citizen wiflies to know, from your Correfpon
dent> whose remarkis published in your paper oj the qth injl. what Officer
under the American Government, in the Diplomatic, or other line, is en
titled to the Jlyle or title of Excellency. He has read the Conjlitution
with attention—has been a Jlrenuous supporter of it—but the part cl
'uded to by your Correspondent has escaped his notice.
12th May, 1739.
SUBSCRIPTIONS for the « COURIER DE BOSTON," c
new weekly paper, published at Bojlon in the French Language, are re
reived at No. 9, Maiden Lane. [Theutility of apaperintnis almod
urnveiial language need not be hinted to those, who widi to ac
quire the French tongue.]J
ERRATUM.
In " The Tablet," 2d hue, of id paragraph, for <c cultivation"
read civilization. »
THE PRESIDENT'S HOUSEHOLD.
WHEREAS, all Servants and others, employed to procurc
provisions, or supplies, for the Household of The President
of the United St at es, will be furnifhed with monies for those
purposes. Notice is therefore given, That no accounts, for the
payment of which the Public might be considered as refjpon
tible, are to be opened with any of them.
Samuel Fraunces, Steward of the Household.
May 4th, 1789.
ARRIVALS.
At the Port of New-York.
Saturday, Ship Eagle, Colquhain, Glasgow, 10 days.
Brig Indudry, At water, New-Providence. 33 days.
Sunday, PacketTankerville, Bell, Falmouth atid Halifax 56 days.
Ship Bridol, Adamfon, Bridol, 49 days.
Monday, Sloop Mary and Edher, Webb, Charledon, 8 days.
Tucfday, Sloop Hancock, Brown, Rhode-Island, 2 days.
Sloop Rambler, Peterfon, Ditto, 2 days.
Sloop Lucianna, Fipes, Charledon, 6 days.
Sloop Two Fritnds, Hopkins, Eden ton, 9-day#.\_Fot the Tablet) No. Ja lji. column , ojthe Ifl j
From the Columbian Magazine.
M Enquiry into the confijtency of Oaths with Rea
son and Chrijlianity.
IN discussing this question, I shall firft mention
the objections to oaths, which are founded in rea
son ; and, secondly, the objections to them which
are derived froi*i the precepts and fpiiit of the
Christian religion.
1. Oaths produce an idea in the minds of men,
that there are two kinds or degrees of truth ; the
one intended for common, and the other for so
lemn occasions. Now, this idea is directly cal
culated to beget a want of reverence for the sup
posed inferiir kind of truth; hence men are led
to trifle with it in the common affairs of human
life. I grant that some men will tell the truth,
when urged to it by the folcmn formalities of an
oath, who would not otherwise do it: But this
proves the great mifchief of oaths in focicty ; for
as these men are called upon to speak the" truth
999 times in common life, to once they are called
Upon to fwe.-.r to it, we have exactly 999 fulfelioods
to one truth told by them. How extensive, then,
must be the mifchief of this great disproportion
between truth and falfehood; in all the affairs of
human life ! It is wrong to do anything that shall
create an idea of .wo kinds of truth. There is a
scale of fallehoods; but truth has no degrees or
sub-divisions. Like its divine author, if is an eter
nal unchangeable UNIT.
2. The practice of swearing according to hu
man laws, appears to be the cause of all the pro
fane swearing, which is so universal among all
janks of people ; for if there are two modes of
speaking the truth, it is natural lor men to prefer
that mode which the laws of our iountry have en
titled to the firft degree of credibility: hence men
swear, when they wiih to be believed, in common
conversation.
3. Oaths have been multiplied upon so many
trifling occasions that they have ceased, in a great
degree, to operate with any force upon the most
solemn occasions : hence the universal prevalence
of perjury in courts, armies and custom-houses,
all oyer the world. This fa<t is so notorious in
that a law has lately been pafled in that
island, which requires a bond of £. 200, instead
ot an oath, from every Captain that enters his
vtjflel in the custom house, as a security for his
veracity in the manifeft of his cargo, and for the
amount of his duties to the Government.
Reason and scripture (when perfectly under
stood) are never contrary to each other; and re
velation from God can never give a sanction to
that which is so evidently absurd, and unfriendly
to the interests of human society. Let us proceed
then to examine the bible, and here we shall find,
that oaths are as contrary to the precepts and spi
rit of Chrillianity as they are to found reason.
_ Before I mention either the precepts or the spi
rit of the gospel, which militate against oaths, I
fnall firft mention a few of the cases of swearing
Which I find upon record in the new testament.
I shall firft mention the precedents in favour of
this practice, and then the precepts and prece
dents against it.
The firft precedent I shall produec, is taken
from the example of the devil, who addueftes our
Saviour in an oath,- in Mark v. 7. " What have
I to da with thee, Jesus, tliou son of the most
high God ? I adjure thee by CWthat thou torment
me not."
Afecond precedent is taken from the example of
the high prielt, who addrefles our Saviour 'in an
oath, iu Matthew xxvi. 63. "I adjure the; "fays
he, just before he contents to his death, "by the
thing God, that thou tell us whether thou be tlid
Christ the son of God." It has been said that
there was noun propriety in this mode of expres
sion, otherwiie our Saviour would have rebuked
it:, but let it be remembered, that he stood be
fore the tribunal of a high priest, as a prisoner,
and not as a teacher; and hence we find he submits
in, file nee to all the profane infultsthat were offer
ed him.
He moreover accomplished by thisfilence a pro
phesy refpe«ting himfelf, that when he should be
led to judgmehr, he should be " dumb, and open
nor his mouth."
1 cter furnifhes a third example in favour of
swearing. " And again he denied".- (fays Matthew
obap. xxvi. 72.) " with an oath, I know not the
man." It would seem from this account, that a
bare affirmation was so cliaracteriftic of a disciple
of Jesus Christ, that Peter could not use a more
dirett method to convince the maid, who charged
him with being a follower of Jesus of Nazareth
that he was not a Christian, than by having re
courl'e to the Jewilh and pagan practice of taking
an oath. 6
Herod, furnifhes a fourth instance of ftvearing
in Matthew xiv. 7. when he promised to give the
daughter of Herodias whatever she should ask of
him : sue afced for John the baptist's head in a
charger : the King repented of his hasty promise ;
" nevertheless, for the oaths fake, and them
which fat with liini at meat, he commanded it to
be given her." Here it is evident he would have
violated a common prpmiSe. Butif common pro
mises are not held Sacred, and binding, there is
an end of a great portion, of truth in society, and
of all the order and happiness which arise from
it. To Secure constant and universal truth, men
(hould Swear always or not at all.
h. fifth precedent for swearing we find in the xix
of Atfts and 13th verse. " Then certain of the
vagabond Jews, exorcists, took upon them to call
over them which had evil Spirits, the name of the
Lord Jesus, faying, we adjure thee, by JeSus whom
Paul preaclieth. And the man in whom the evil
spirit was, leaped on them, and overcame them;
so that they fled out of the house naked and woun
ded." 1
_ The la ft precedent for swearing that I (hall men
tion, is the one related in Adts xxiii ' 21ft. It con
tains an account of forty men who had bound
themselves, by an oath, not to eat or drink, until
they had killed St. Paul. It would seem that this
banditti knew each other perfectly, and that they
would not a<fl together under the form of a com
mon obligation. The occasion indeed, seems to
require an oath. It was an aflociation to commit
murder, lam disposed to SuSpedt that oaths were
introduced originally to compel men to do things
that wire contrary to justice, or to their confid
ences.
In mentioning the precepts and precedents that
are to be found 111 the new telbament again ft swear
ing, the following striking paflage, taken from
Matthew v. verses 34, 35,' 36, 37, Jhould alone
determine the quellion. Kl Swear not at all, nei
ther by Heaven, for it is God's throne ; nor by
the earth, for it isliisfootftool; nor by Jerusalem,
for it is the city of the great King. Neither fhalt
thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not
make one hair white or black. But let your com
munication be yea, yea; nay, nay ; for whatsoe
ver is more than these, cometh of evil."
I know that these words are said to be levelled
only against profane swearing in common conver
sation ; but this will appear improbable, when
we refleA upon the frequency 2nd number of oaths
which were admitted by the Jewish institutions,
and that the principal part of the discourse of our
Saviour, from whence that paflage is taken, is in
tended to shew the corruptions or imperfections of
those uilhtutions, and the Superiority of the cof
pel dispensation over them.
There is a peculiar meaning in the reason which
is given for the prohibition of swearing in this
precept, viz. that any thing more than a bare af
firmation, cometh of evil. Yes, it came originally
from the universal prevalence of falfehood in So
ciety ; but the Christian religion, by opening
new sources of moral and religious obligation
and by discovering more fully the beauty and re
wards of truth, and deformity and future punish
ment of sals ehood, has rendered the obligation of
oaths wholly unneceflary. They comported with
the feeble dilcoveries of the Jewish, ,and nume
rous corruptions of the Pagan religions ; but they
are unneceflary under that full and clear manifelt
ation ot the divine will which is contained in the
gospel. Cefar's wife should not be fufpetfted—
\Vith how much more propriety should this be said
of the veracity of a Chriflian, than of the chasti
ty 'be wife of a heathen Emperor. Every
tune a Christian Swears, he exposes the purity and
truth of his religion to suspicion. " As for you
Petrach your word is Sufficient," said the Car
dinal Colonna, in an enquiry into the cause of a
riot that happened in his family, while that cele
brated poet was a member of it ; and in which he
exacted an oath from every other member of his
family, not excepting his own brother, the Bi
lhop oi Luna, ihe fame address should be made
to every Christian, when he is called upon to de
clare the truth, " You believe in a future state of
rewards and punishment—you profefs to be the
follower of that Being who has inculcated a re
gard for truth, under the awful consideration of
,1 s omniscience, and who has emphatically styled
TRUTH -' : Tour word > there f° re > »
A Nobleman is permitted, by the laws of Eng
land, to declare the truth upon his honor. The
projeffion of Chnftianity is declaredin scripture to
be an h.gh calling, and Christians are Said to be
prjejis and Kings Stange! that perSons of Such
high rank, should be treated with leSs reSpett than
EnglilhNoblemen; and still , 110 re strange! that
pei Sons pollefiiug theSe august titles should betray
iheir llluftrious birth and dignity, by conforming
to a practice which tawds so much to invalidate the
truth and excellency of their relio-i on
It is very remarkable, that in all the accounts
we have of the of our Saviour with
his diSciples, and of their subsequent intercourse
with each other, there 13 no mention made of a
Angle oath being taken by either of them
Perhaps there never was an event in which the
highest degrees of evidence were more neceflary
than they were to eftabliih the truth of the reSur'
re<fhon of our Saviour, as on the truth of this mi
ncle depended the credibility of the ChriftTan
religion. But an the establishment of the truth
of this great event, no oath is taken, or required
The witnefles of it Simply relate what they Saw'
and are believed by all the dhiiples, Lt/to™',
wl}o Hill remembered too well the prohibition nf
his mailer, fwcar mt at all, to ast for an oath t
remove his unbelief. 0
It is worthy of notice likewise, that no prenof
terous oath ot office is required of the difcil,! "
when they aflume the apoftolie character and are
sent forth to preach the gospel to all nations
How unlike the spirit of the gospel arc thole hu'
man laws, which require oaths of fidelity every
year : and which appear to be founded in t'-e ah
surd idea that men a.e at all times the puurdians
of their own virtue.
There can be no doubr of Chriliians having U l i
formly refufed to take an oath in the firlt ao e s 0 f
the church : nor did they conform to this paean
culloin, till after Chrillianity was corrupted bv a
mixture with many other parts of the paean and
Jewilh religions.
There are two arguments in favour of oaths
which are derived from tiie new testament and
which remain to be refuted—ill. St. Paul uies ft.
veral expreiiions in his epiltles which amount to
oaths, and even declares " an oath to be the end
of ltrife." It was the character of St. Paid that
he became all things to all men. He circiun'cifed
as well as baptised Jews, and proves the truth of
revelation by a quotation from a heathen poet
Oaths were a part of the Jewilh and Pagan insti
tutions—and, like several other ceremonies, for
some time, continued to retain a ilrong hold of
the of the new converts to Christiani
ty. St. James, whowaslefs accommodating to these
prejudices, bears a teftimonr against oaths', nearly
in the fame words, which were before used by his
mailer.
2u. It has been said, that the great Jehovah
frequently 1 wears, both in the old and new testa
ment, and that the angel who is to found the
lall trumpet will ""fwear that time /hall be no
more." Every expression of thi-. kind ihould be
conlidered as an accommodation to Jewilh and Pa
gan customs, in order to render the truths of reve
lation more intelligible and acceptable. The Su-.
preme Being, lor the fame reasons, often afibmes
to liimfell .he violent pallions, and even the fea
tures and lenles ol men : And yet who can suppose
it proper toafcribe either of them to a Bein<r, one
of whose perfections confilfa in his exiiting as a
pure unchangeable spirit.
It oatlis are contrary to reason, and have a per
nicious influence upon morals and the order of so
ciety ; and above all, if they are contrary to the
precepts and spirit of the gospel; it becomes le
giiiators and niinillers of the gospel, to consider
how far they are responsible for all the falfehood,
prolane lwearing and perjury that exill in society.
It is in the power of, legislators to aboliih oaths,
ex P them from our laws ? and it is in the
po\v er ol niinillers ot the gofpel,by their influence
and example, to render truth fofimple andobliga
tory, that human government lhall be aihamed to
a k any other mode of declaring it from chris
tians, than by a bare affirmation.
The Iriends of virtue and freedom have beheld,
with great pleasure a new Conllitution eltabliihed
mthe tinted States,whofe objects are ptace,union,
J''/ will be in the power of the firft
ongre.o that lhall a eft under this Conflitution, to
et l le world an example of enlightened policy,by
laming laws that /hall command obedience,with
out t.ie abhird and improper obligation of oaths.
,-T 1 means they will add the relloration and
e , ' hmentof truth, to the great and valuable
o jets ol the Conllitution that have been men
tioned.
PRICE-CURkRNT.
PHILADELPHIA.
Flour fuperfine, . 37 /s. p T , iarrtl.
common, , . „ 2 / rt r j„
. . %f a do .
Indian Meal, . . ■> do
pftr'h " " * 10 /6. • do.
T ' " - *" 1 5f. a iy/6. do.
I ?TT' - • - i2 j6. do.
- 3 /. , r do.
Bcefl " fh ' - - 2/-/ofa 3 L do.
— Connt'y, . . f J fdo
Mackrcl, . . . ft a r Q do .
Herring . _ *j- f | do
Sh.p-ftuff, . . yfc a9 r t r.Cwt.
C » - - 20 f do
Mufcovada Sugar, a 67/6.°' do.
James-river, . - 30/ a 4 0/ do.
r - - - 3of. a 40/ do.
Rappahannock, - o O C do.
Maryland, col'd, - 4 /r do.
Wcftern Shore, long leaf, a 2 -f do.
taftern Shore, - . 2 of a 2 7 f do.
f n C t Caro !- - - 35/ - 37/4 <*"•
In tenor ditto, - Jr *" do.
Leadinpig s , . . do.
Rve"'' _ - 7/6. pr. bulhel.
Barley, * . " . " # d °"
Indian Corn, . a °' do .
Kl atS r j * 1/8. a if. do.
Haxfeed, . _ V. J da.
- - Ifo. a e/S. do.
r~ Llvc rpool, - . 4/. do.
Kum, Jamaica, _ . As, * ifh pr.galloo,
Windward, . %. /// P V
trench. - - 2/ do.
- -N. England, - . s > 9 . do.
?, r , and y> - - 4 /n. do.
- me, Sherry. . 6r a ,\<i.
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiphn-
Lane, near the Oswego-Market, New-York.
*ODDEqOX