No. XI.
THE TABLE T. No. XI. ,
« There itfcarce any thing more common, than ani
mnjjtu! among parties, that cannot fubjlfl, butty
their agreement."
COME persons, who read my last number, com-
J plain that a few of the strokes were drawn
o hard. Part of the image is said to be too
bold ' and the picture, in some refpe<fts, is railed
bevond the life. If it is meant as a portrait,
where (hall we look for an exact original? If
it is a fancy piece ; why is the figure allowed to
exhibit, what fadts will contradidt i
It mud be confefled, and it is an happy circum
stance, that in the present age, the evils of fac
tion have not run their full length. They have
been controuled by several causes j but they are
capable, when unchecked, of reaching all the
extremes I have described. The present state
offociety, in America,and some parts of Europe,
is unfavorable to the success of head-strong, tur
bulent incendiaries. A few individuals, how
much soever disposed, cannot eafdy blow up a
flame, that will spread over any large district of
country. Most people are so intent upon their
occupations, and so desirous of purluing private
objects in life, that they are averse to disorder
and contention. The mild influences of com
merce have dilfufed a spirit of moderation and
order. As the love of gain is new a very pre
dominant palfion, and as that is befl: gratified in
parific times, it operates as a strong guard a
gainst reft lei's, clamorous men, who a.*e ambi
tious of kindling : actions. This love of money
isnot confined to tlie mercantile profefiion alane.
All denominations of men are more or less under
its influence. Thoie, who are aiming at theac
quifition of property by the regular itepe of ho
ned industry, will only be feeble inllruments in
party rage and aniraofity. There £.re not want
ing characters, at the present day, to throw so
ciety into cont'ufion and quarrels ; but they do not
easily find materials. The great bulk of ma.ll
- are otherwise employed.
Among the individuals, I have observed, who
Jh;id a contentioussspirt,it, no one has combined all
die qualifications, or acconi]Jifbed so extensively
his designs, as Jeaders of parties used to do, in a
more iuipcrfccft aud outrageous state of society.
People iii general, though they may he indivi
dually unconnected, are yet so relatively fitua
ted with refpedt to each other, that an injury
done to any particular jclali of the community,
impedes tie profp.erity of jche reft. The diflen
lions between the landed,- mercantile and manu
facturing iuterelts can never proceed to any de
trimental lengths ; because each party will itftli
feel the evil it is levelling against the other, be
fore it can be pushed to any injurious extreme.
The whole system is so complicated that it mull
Hand or fall together. Dilputcs, between the
different orders of society, are as unnatural, as
thefcditivn between the members of the human
body, wliicii the old Roman fafcde so aptly xepre
fents. -■
In proportion, as the relative interests of men
are examined, will it be found that mutual har
mony aiid prosperity ihould be promoted. Indeec
tbey will iu ,I'orae jueafure promote and regulate
theavfelves. Some jealousy and jarring are fai
from producing a bad effect. The spirit of com
petition is indifpenfible.—ln fame cafe? it uiaj
bear two hard upon cert:-in individuals, and ever
one branch of the community may get an undui
advantage over, others ; but in a general way
the system will take care of itfelf.
The subjeCt is not yet finifned, though I intend
ed dais number should have closed it.
' 1 . .V - u T- - ■ . i .
RATIONAL FINANCIERING.
A LETTER on the Public and Private DEBT o.
AMERICA—The means of facilitating the pay
ment thereof—and converting it into a fourc<
of WEALTH and PROSPERITY for the Uni
ted Stat«».
By Sir John Dalrymple, Bait.
THE Americans owe at present four millions
Serling of debts to British fiibje<Sts ; various plans
have been proposed to effectuate payment —they
all fail in this refpeift, that they suggest no pro
v»»on for putting the Americans in a capacity to
Pay- The chief use of hiitory is to shew men
"what they nr-e to foliotv xmd what to avoid, by
«3vperic«ce of their anceilors, and therefore
übniir the following plan, founded on Mr. Mon
tague's* principles, to the conlideratipii of both
c ountrks. Auieiica js now in a Jiinilar firaation
TV, M note.
e r - Montague,here alluded to,wasChancellor to U»e Exche-
er ' • *€96, «.nd who, with the -nffiftance of Sir Isaac New
fund c^e » e ft'bli(hed the present system of the Britifli
From S A TU R D AY, May 16, to W E D NES D A Y, Mat 20, 1789.
with that of England, during the firft year of
King William's reign, in four refpedts.
lit. She owes an external debt of four millions
to Britifti fubje<fts, in the fame way England
owed five millions to her soldiers and seamen who
were mostly abroad.
2dly. She owes an internal public debt, con
tracted during the war ; England owed a similar
debt, but with this difference, that the Ameri
can debt is small in comparison of what the En
glish debt was.
3dly. America requires annual supplies of tax
es to carry on her government: England requi
red them also ; but with this difference, that the
supplies required by America, atprefent, to car
ry 011 her government, are a trifle, whereas the
deunands of England were great, because there
was a great war to maintain.
Lastly, America has but little coin ; England
at that time had not much, and yet had vast de
mands upon her for to carry on her commerce,
to pay the interest of her debts, to maintain an
expensive civil goTernment, about forty thou
fluid seamen. and-about eighty thousand troops,
and to fu'pfidize foreign Princes. The supposed
di'UoniJ of Americans to their British credi
tors, or rather perhaps their real inability to do
what they wish to do,arif'es from their want of coin,
ur of a substitute tor coin ; for,to expedt them to pay
:i great external and internal debt, and carry on
their government without coin, or a substitute
for coin, that is, to pay without an instrument
of payment, isonevifion; and to expedt Ame
rica with her poverty, to pay the principal sum
of her external and internal debt, when England,
Krauce, and Holland, with all their wealth,
rannot, .i ; . another vision. Kut if the American
States, (with or without the intervention of Bri
tish coinmi/lioiiers, to attend to the interest of
Britiih creditors in the liquidation of their debts)
will apply Mr. Montague's principles and prac
tice to the present condition of their country,
they will find the remedy for the evil, even in
the evil id elf, for the bene at of the Britiih cre
ditors ; and they will fiml. certain good to spring
out of that remedy, for the benefit of America
hsrjfeif. "
Lef-tfee- American States, iu the firft place,
provide a fund of taxes, futficient to pay more
than the interefjt of i heir internal and external
debts, and-fuflicient ajfo to pay either the funis
annually required to carry on their government,
or the interest of a sum borrowed ior carrying
it on, if they have no taxes fufficient to raise an
annual ftipply for that purpose ; but which bor
rowing wjll not be neceflajy, except for a few
years at the beginning, till public credit iball be
eftaLlifhed ; because, after that period, it will
be the fault of America herfelf, if flic does not
pay off debts, inftcad of encreafing them. The
States fliould, in the second place, convert the
above debts, (whether internal or external, or
new borrowings, to carry on for a few years their
government) into public transferable fecuriiies,
and make provision for the exadt application ol
those taxes to Lhe payment of the interest of the
debts, in the fame way that Mr. Montague did.
Lastly. In Older to give currency to tfiefe trans
ferable securities (or, to give them a more sim
ple name, to this paper money,) it should be
received in payment of taxes to the State, and
of borrowings by the State, in the fame way as
was provided for by Mr. Montague.
Oijedion. It raay be objected, that it is unjust
to make the American public pay the debts of
American private persons; that the American
public will be a lefer by the bargain, and there
fore will never agree to it.
Aruiutr. Public bodies, like private persons,
fubruit to hardships, when they are to receive be
nefits from them. The States will agree, if any
way can be fallen upon to make the public a gain
er in the end, and to faveit from lols in the mean
time. Now the way to compais the firft of theft
ends, is, ift, for the American States, in return
for the transferable securities which they give
for the payment of the interest of the debts of
the British creditors, to be put iu the place of
thole creditors, so as to enable the States to reco
ver the debts in America; and 2clly, that these
debts, as fait as recovered, shall be converted
into a fund, to make a solid bottom for a bank
of circulation, like that of England, to be the
property of the American public : and which
hank will gradually extend itfelf, accom
modation of public and private credit, as they
shall extend tliemfelves, because the debts reco
vered will be gradually falling into it.
With regard to ways of faviug the public of
America from loss, or at least from a cOnliderablt
loss, there are many. Some of the debts could
be called in inltantly. Securities for the pay
ment of the interest annually, and of the princi-
pal by instalment, might be taken on the real
eltates of others, or upon the persona! eltates of
them and their friends, when they had no real
eltates. 1 o ease the debtors, and yet to five
benefit to the public, payment of many of tlie
debts might be taken in the produce of the coun
try; for example, in the tobacco ofChelapeake
bay, and the rice of the Caroiinas ; and these
fold to foreign nations, with the II amp of thy
public upon them, to vouch the goodnels of their
quality, would acquire an additional value In
order toobtain the end of ealing the debtor, ana
|ettingbenefit to the slate Hill farther, that pro
duce might be exported upon a premium by the
State, to refpeAable bodies of merchants |in Bri
tain, to be received for the behoof of the B ritifc
proprietors in the American funds. This last is
not difficult to be executed. All the tobacco re
ceived in t ranee and Spain, is consigned to a few
hands ; and the diamonds of the Brazils "o to
one lioufe in Lisbon. But above all, England
might give advantage to American trade, with
out hurting her own, to make up the public loss,
and reward the public honor of America : these
ire arrangements, which could be contrived in.
half a day, by one who has ihewn that he can.
ronducft the lightening of the Ikies, and who, by
contriving these arrangements, would crown the
Tood lie has done to his own, and make up for
lie mifchief he has done to this country. Such
nutual concessions would tend to reconcile the
tumours of men to each other, whose intereib
n spite oftliofe humours mult long be the fame.
The advantages which would redound to Ajneri
:a from adopting fucli views, are the following:
lit. Her empire of dominion, and her empire
)f commerce (for they mult be blind indeed,
*ho <io not fee how immense this lafb empire mu(k
>e, if honor be made its basis) will start froiu
he noblelt of all goals, the goal of public ho
lor, and of national fidelity of charatfler; cir
:umftances which support the public credit of
England, and the private credit of the Spanifli
ration, more than any other. At present the
hips of all countries stand aloof from the coasts
>f America, but they would then press forward
,o reach them. He mail be a bad merchant, ia-
Ifed, who does not fee, that a little character is
vorth a little money.
2dly. America would be fupp}ied with an im
nediate fubftitufe for her want: of coin, juil as
Was by Mr. Montague's scheme, and
his relief, by the vigour which it always gives
:o and trade, would supply America
with coin, just as coin was drawn into England
>y Mr. Montague's scheme. No bank can Hand
without an equivalent security within itfelf, for
he notes it iflues. The debts recovered
ind sent to the bank, would form that security ;
md then the bank, either established at one Ita
ion, or, which would be much better, divided
.nto three or four branches, placed at great fta
:ions of America for the fake of greater conve
nience to bulinefs, would :jive new wings to the
circulation of private credit, and also to public
:redit; for, supported by the State, the bank
would for its own interest support the State. The
:onlequence of the firm eftablifliment of public
iijd private credit, obtained by those operations,
would be, and at no very distant period, that
foreign nations would throw their money into
the public funds of America with as little fear,
is they do hito those of their own country. And
the consequence of that confidence again would
be, that British merchants poflefled of property,
in the public funds of America, would make
payment often in that property, and trade often
upon it ; America would remit her payment al
most always in lier own produce, and carry on
her trade, and take her station high in the rank
of nations, either for defence or offence, on the
money of other countries.
SENTIMENTAL EXTRACT.
TO distinguish men by the difference of their
moral qualities, to espouse one party from a sense
ps just ice, to oppose another even with indigna
ion when excited by iniquity, are the common
indications of probity, and the operations of an
upright, animated and generous spirit. To guard
against unjust partialities, and ill-grounded an- •
tipathies ; to maintain that composure of mind,
which, without impairing its sensibility or ardor,
proceeds in every instance with dilcernment and
penetration, are the marks of a vigorous and cul
tivated spirit. To be able to follow the deflates
of such a spirit, through all the varieties of hu
man life, and with a mind always matter of itfelf,
in prosperity and adversity, and poflefled -of
its abilities when the fubjedts in hazard are life
or.freedom, as much as in treating simple quel'-
tions of interest, are the triumphs of magnankn
i y, and true elevation of mind.
TRICE SIX f'ENCS-EXTRACT FROM « AMERICAN ESSAYS »
A LETTER, addrejjed to the jujl!y celebrated and humane Dr. JOHN
HOWARD, aj Great-Britain, with the
STORY o/'HONEST US and CONSTANTIA,
Worthy SJ R ,
THE pure, liberal, and philanthropic motives, that excited you
to quit your tranquil retreat, and to travel through foreign coun
tries, have jullly diftftiguifiied you, as the Friend, or rather guar
dian-angel of mankind : With a well-grounded confidence you
have bid defiance to every species ot contagion, and calmly con
fronted Death, m every horrid form, to explore the dreary recep
tacles of miserable man, to pour the healing balm of consolation
into his ulcered wounds: You Lave with more than Herculean
labor, patience, and fortitude, devoted your time, and
intercit, to the glorious eaufe ot Humanity : You have traced and
ueploied the infernal paths, that mark the wanton power of ty
rants ; and you have wept over the helpless vitlims of superstition
and oppreflion : You have seen virtue in chains—and vice trium
phant It is your peculiar glory to have paired by gaudy Palaces
with negletfc; and to have fought out the dwellings of diflrefs, with
the g: d-hke purpoles ot coofolaiton and relief : You have soared
above human, and gloriously illustrated iome ot the bright: ft ema
nations of the divine nature ; and, happily tor mankind, you are
still preserved, and once more returned to your native country,
with the greatest, and best rewards,SELF-APPROBATION, and
tliefincereplaudits of a grateful world. And now, mod worthy
Sir! permit an American, to congratulate y*u on your fafe return,
and toprefentyouwith a family picture, taken from real
life in London ; however monllrous, and Ihocking to human
ity, the features may appear, be afiured they belong to your own
country ; where, I have reason to think, from my own observa
tion, and the mod authentic information, you may find an am
ple field for the excrcife of all those virtues, which led you at the
risk of liberty and life, into foreign dungeons : Victims of op
oreflion, and other objects ot Companion, abound in England : In
iome of the abodes of misery in London, you will pollibly find
new Ipecies of oppreflion and torture, unknown in any other coun
try, however abiolute, and such as might almost make AN HAST
INGS blush, for the depravity of mankind.
Bribery, corruption and oppreflion, have been fuffered to take
large flridts in the British dominions; they have contaminated the
ltreams, and it not speedily chccked,will poison the source of that
national Justice, Geucrofity, Humanity, and Liberty, which have
so long been the boast of Britons.
Should your fympathetie he art prompt you to analyze thofc mo
dern engines of cruelty, THE PRIVATE MAD-HOUSES in
London, and its vicinity, let no pretences of the callous keepers,
howevei induce you to pass by those gloomy chambers,
"where the wretched inhabitants are buried from the fight oi
friends, and light of day :«Thol*e INFERNAL CELLS are laid to
be new-invented fubffitutes for the grave; where the wealthy pa
rent, or other relation, is intombed alive, to gratify a ravenous,
hungry heir, who could no longer brook the tardiness of Death.
You, Sir ! who have m. de it the business of your life to leek the
means of doing good, will, I hope, pardon my freedom, iu pre
fumingto dittate, or direst your enquiries, when I allure you,
that I ama&uated solely by thofc humane motives, that influence
and dire& all your actions.
With the highest eftecm, and admiration, of your many figna]
virtues, and exalted character,
I am, with great refpeft,
Worthy Sir,
Your mofl humble, and mod obedient Servant,
.Av AM E R I C A N.
(Story of Honeftus and Cunftantia in our next.J
PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of tht
UNITED STATES.
[Substance of Friday's Debate, on the motion for an
nexing to the Impojl Bill a clause, limiting its du
ration.]
Friday, May ij, 1789.
Mr. Madison observed, that it was incompati
ble with the spirit of the Constitution and tht
principles of republicanism, to pass a revenue law
unlimitted in its duration ; especially when tht
objects for which the income was intended were
not defined, and from the circumltances of tht
Union, appropriations could not be conveniently
made—that it would juit 1 y alarm the apprehen
sions of the people, ihoald Congress pass a law
which might exist perpetually for railing taxes,
fubjeclto the adventitious controul anddirectioi
of future adminiftrations,without
and which might be continued after the ostensi
ble motives for their afieflinent Ihould ceale
That the Houf6 of Representatives was veiled witl
the sole povv er of originally applying to the pock
ets of the people—that on the retaining this
power, inviolate, depended their molt eflentia]
rights—that 011 this account principally, the de
mocratic bi anch of the Legislature confided of
the greater number, chosen for a shorter period
than the otlier, and consequently reverted more
frequently to the mass of the citizens—that if
the:e was 110 limitation fpecified, however op
pressive and unequal the operation of the law,
it might become perpetual, for it would not be
in the power of the representatives to effed; an
alteration, as The Prelident, with one third
of the Senate, at any time might prevent a repeal
or alteration of the acst—this would render the
funds so far independent of the people—and
they might become a convenience in the hands of
some future administration, for the purposes of
oppreflion. That the ad: in its pre fen t form, had
been complained of as imperfecft—that experi
ence alone could afcerrain its intrinsic qualities,
and that experience might forcibly suggest the
liecefiity and importance of alterations, and
amendments—but without this clause it may ne
ver be.in the power of the House to remedy any
defeats—rand the people would be diverted of one
of tiwir deal eft and 1110 ft eilential rights, of
which the House of Representatives were the
only fafe and adequate guardians.
Mr, Am £s in reply, faid —to judge rightly we
mult consider the reasons for the proposed amend
ment with attention.
It is said, the money which the impost will
produce is not appropriated. Are gentlemen a
lraid, that no appropriation will be made, or
that it will be improperly made ? If they are,
it will be a reafonfor delaying the paflage of the
bill ; but will not furniih any for limiting its
duratioji—lf they are not afraid of this, as he
trusted was the cafe, why urge the objection ?
It is said, the act is imperfect : Then let us
revise and amend it : A bill which lhall pass
with acknowledged errors, will be agreat evil in
the period to which it is proposed to xontine it.
A perpetual law is said to be needless, because the
occasion will not last so long. He thought the
public would always have occasion for a revenue,
and thinking of the high duties as he did, he
believed the revenue would fall short ; and if
the act was to last until the money raised by it
should pay the public debt, it might as well be
made perpetual.
But let us attend to substance more than found ;
.Vliat is meant by temporary and perpetual ?
No law is really perpetual : A temporary act is
made pro hac vice, or by way of experiment : If
the act is bad, several years is too long to fufFer
it to last.
Three different periods have been proposed
for its duration : One year—several years, and
until the public debts lhall be paid.
One year may be proper for an experiment ;
but is it no evil to go over this ground again ? Is
itdefirable or l'afe to revive the topics of distinct
interelts, and partial politics once a year ? M ill
it /lot p:otract our felfion and augment our ex
pences ? If it is limited to several years, will it
be pollible to re-loan the foreign debt on the cre
dit of fncli precarious funds ? Other nations have
mortgaged their taxes for their debts. A part
of our foreigndebt muftW provided for ; With
a permanent revenue, it is probable it might be
re-loaned at a reduced interest. The sams ad
vantage might be expected in providing for the
other debts ; could this government secure the
creditor on good ground with a fund which a
tew years might annihilate ? He conlidered the
advantage of credit : It had made Britain povv
ertul ai.drich : A dTpotifm could not have it,
nor could a pure democracy—but awik republican
government ought to have and might have it—
and how ? .An act not limited should be in force
until repealed : The revenues, if pledged,
could not be taken away, but by a positive aCt of
injustice and fraud, to which the two Houses mult
ailent, and the President would have his voice :
It was three to one, therefore, that it would not
happen, and the creditor might trust this govern
ment as fafely as any in the world ; But an ad
which would expire of itfelf afforded less ground
of confidence ; for it was a mere negleifc or omil
fion of an art, for which the tenth part of the ob
jections made against this bill would furnifh a
pretext : The mere disagreement of the houses
would prevent it ; and those who had seen how
difficult it was to procure the afient of this Houle
to the bill, would hot be sanguine that another
should pass at a future period : Had we not fuf
fered from this cause severely already ? It is
alked, shall we part with the power ? If the act
is limited, in fact the power is limited—and it is
the power tofave the public honor and publiek
money that is limited :* We are advised to hold
the purse ftrinjrs carefully, andfo we ought: But
whole money do we hold ? We are told that fo
reigners will seize our Ihips for their debts ; and
if the money is due to them, why should we hold
it ? \V hat honest rcafon can we have for with
holding it > Limiting the aCt will carry distrust
in the face of * —and we (hall be obliged to pay
for that dfltrult, as the act may be repealed or
amended, as experience may direct, there leems
to be no good reason for limiting its existence
He was against all temporary expedients, and
wifbed to make the act commensurate with the
public neceifity, which called for it.
Mr. Page observed, that he thought it incon
sistent, that gentlemen, who had opposed the
bill in every stage of its progress through the
Houle, should now be strenuous for its being per
petual—for his part he had his doubts, as to the
eligibility of some articles, and for that reason,
there ought to be a limitted period to its exist
ence—he was for a fair experiment of the bill
however, as it did not appear that greater har
mony of sentiment was attainable at present—
but if in the operation it should be so unci pernici
ous, he could not conceive the propriety of put
ting it out of the power of the House to correct
the evils it may produce.
Mr. Ames replied, that the amendment mov
ed tor was he believed totally unexpected to al
most every gentlemen in the Houfe—for his part
he had always supposed that the system was to
have been permanent, and commensurate to the
object—upon this principle he had combated
those parts of the bill with some degree of ener
gy which he conceived unfavorable—becaufe he
wilhed to make the bill as faultlefs as possible,
considering its indefinite existence as the natural
result of a desire to make adequate provision for
the public exigencies, and support for the o-o
vcniiiient. a
Adjourned.
Saturday, May j6.
Mr. Seney prel'ented an a<fr of rhe legiflatuit
of rlie State of Maryland, offering to Coiigref
the exclulive jurii'diction of ten miles square, in
any part of that State, for the permanent feat of
the Federal Government.
Mr. Sylvester prel'ented a petition of Do
nald Campbell, praying a reimbursement of
monies expended by him on account of the Uni
ted States, during the late war.
Mr. Ames prefenttd a petition from John
Fen no, soliciting the printing in the Gazette of
the United States, the atfts, relolutions, &c.oftfle
House.
The consideration of Mr. Madison's amend,
mcntto the iinpoftLiil, vas then relumed—it lie.
ing intimated that the yeas and nays would
be called for—an animated debate ensued—m
which the lubftance of yelterday's observations
was recapitulated, and many new sentiments were
kdded. In fnpport of the amendment it was fak;
that the eftabliihment of the public credit de
pended upon a reg alar and permanent fvftemof
lionelt policy, and the virtue of the govern
ment—that we ought not to fnppofe that a future
legislature would be iefs virtuous than the pre
sent—that it was but just to suppose that diere
will always exilt a disposition in the Federal Le
gillature, to do justice ; and if this jhould be the
cafe, public credit will always be titabliflied in
whatever manner funds might be provided, and
that no afligned period or any act without limi
tation, would effect this object without this dis
position.—That it would not be wile to put too
much power in the hands of the Senate, as the
time for which they were eledted, rendered them
almost independent of the people.
It was further observed, that the national debt
was already placed on as (olid principles, as a le
gislative act could ellablifh it—that it was in fait
better founded than that of any other country;
for it had been made part of the national compaJt;
that the general character of a people, and not its
particular legiilative a<fts were the objects of at
tention to foreign creditors—That nothing could
jul'dfy an immutable law, but extraordinary cir
cumltances.—Circumftances which would render
such a law always equally neceflary—that every
act of a perpetual nature, narrowed the power
of the House, and transferred jt to the execu
tive and a minority of the Senate.
On the other hand it was contended, that mere
ly not alligning a limited period to ?.n a«, did
not neceflarily make it perpetual—that in order
to tins an express declaration to that effect, was
requisite—that every a eft must be deficient in pro
portion as it fell fliort of being commensurate to
its object—that the public credit could be efta
blilhed only by providing funds which in all
events, should be fully futneient to answer the
demands of the public creditors—that temporary
fyltems, dependant upon the breath of an Af
fenibly, could not be considered in this point of
light—that this clause would defeat all the salu
tary effetfis designed by the fyftein.—Thatnot
withftanding allusions had been frequently made
to the Briti/li parliamentary proceedings, yet
it was conceived that no precedents of a limited
revenue law could be produced—that it would
be transferring the imbecility of the old confe
deration to the new fyllcm—that if wewilhto
have the evidences of our public debt of any va
lue, it is our duty to eltablifli a permanent ade
quate provifion—thatitwas necedary in this way,
to give evidence of jour disposition and ability to
pay our debts— that foreigners would be fcrnpu
lonfly attentive to our public arts, and draw their
conclusions accordingly—that natives and fo
reigners had Suffered Sufficiently by their confi
dence, and we ought to liippofe that they would
be more cautious for the future—that it could
not rationally be expected that a temporary fyf*
tem would inspire a reSpeift and confidence in the
government, or give it ;he neceflary energy and
coriSequence among the people.
1, he motion was then varied by Mr. Madison,
but after some further observation, the original
amendment was put, and carried in the affirm
ative ; and the yeas and nays entered on the
journals as follow. For the motion,
Mr.Baldwin, Mr. Ben/en. MBland, Mr. Burke, Mr .Carroll,
Mi. lolcii, Mr. Contee, Mr. htzfimons, Mr. Floyd, Mr .Gale, Mr.
Gerry, Mr. Gilmun, Mr. Goodhue, Mr. Griffin, Mr. Grout, Mr.
Hathorn, Mr. HeiJler, Mr. Huntington, Mr. Jarkfon, Mr. Lei,
Mr. Leonard, Mr. Lwcrmcre, Mr. Madison, Mr. Moore, Mr. Muk
ttnburth, Mr. Mr. Parker, Mr. Patridge, Mr. Reriljtllttr,
Mr. Seney, Mr. Scott, Mr. Smith, Maryland, Mr. Smith, South Ca
rolina, Mr. Stufges, Mr. Sykejler, Mr. Tnmbull, Mr. Ttichtr,
Mr. fining, Mr. Wad/worth, Mr. White, Mr. fVyvktop.
. Against the motion,
Mr .Ames, Mr. Boudinot, Mr. Cadwalader, Mr. Clymer, Mr. Law
rence, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Sinnickfon, Mr. Thatcher.
Ayes 41
Noes 8
Majority 33
v . c^au^e f° r liniitation being annexed to the
1 , it was agreed that it should continue and be
in force from the i jth of June next, till the firft
ot June 1 796. The bill then pafled the House,
and was sent to the Senate for their concurrence.
The House agreed to take up the report of the
committee on the memorial of Dr. Ramsay, on
1 iiuriday next.
~ * 1 • Hit horn had leave of abfencc for a few days.Monday, May 18.
The House resolved itfelf into a committee of
1 whole on the second reading of the bill to
regulate the collection of the impost.
The object of this bill being a temporary ar
rangement, applying the revenue systems already
ant ; n t i ie several States to the purpol'es of the
Union—and in tho * e States where no such regu
lations existed, direding the adoption of the laws
of a neighboring State.
Mr.Lawrence, Mr. Huntingden, Mr. Jack
-O„Mr. WHiTii and Mr. Vining, severally ob
"eeted to the bill, as incompetent to the purposes
intended—as radically bad—as creating infur
inountable difficulties, owing to various rates and
modes of impost, and its collection in the several
States _lt would cause an interference with the
".conceived maxims of particular States, by ma
king the laws of one, the rule of conduct for
another— it would fantftion the receiving a depre
ciated paper medium, and other regulations of
some of-the States, which were inconftftent with
the Constitution.
It was therefore moved, that the committee
should rife, and the bill lie on the table —this
motion was Seconded, and carried in the af
firmative.
On motion of Mr. Parker, a committee was
appointed to bring in a Bill for laying a tax on
(laves imported into the United States, prior to
the year 1808.
On motion of Mr. Goodhue, a committee
was appointed to bring in a bill, providing for
the enumeration of the inhabitants of the Uni
ted States, agreeably to the Constitution.
~ The House, agreeably to the order of the day,
Jrefolved itfelf into a committee of the whole, on
the report of the joint committee refpecfting the
rules to be observed by the two Houfei for the
enrollment, attellation, publication and preser
vation of the acts of Congress, and regulating
the mode of presenting addrefles, &c. to The
President of the United S/ates —and having
difculled and amended several paragraphs, the
committee rose, and the Chairman having report
ed progress, the House adjourned.
Tuesday, May 19.
A meflage was read from the Senate, inform
ing that they had appointed Mr. Lee a commit
tee, to join with a committee on the part of the
House, to present to The President, the en
grofled bill, regulating the taking certain oaths.
The House voted a concurrence, and Mr. Parker,
and Mr. Floyd were appointed.
In conimittee of the whole on the State of the
Union, Mr. Trumeuli. in the chair.
Mr. Boudi not, according to .previous notice,
introduced arefolve in which the firlt objedt was
the eftablilhmentof an office of Finance, agree
ably to the Constitution ; the fuperintendance
and direction of which should be committed to
an officer, to be entitled " The Secretary of Fi
nance for the United States."
Mr. Benson proposed a resolve as an amend
ment, that it Jhould firft be determined how ma
ny departments there lhould be, and proposed a
resolution, that there should be three, viz.
The Department of Foreign Affairs,
The Department of the Treasury, and
The War Department —
To these it was proposed by Mr. ViNiNG,tc
addafourtli, viz. The Secretary of the United
States for the Domestic Department.
After some conversation upon the amendment,
Mr. Boodinot withdrew his proposition for the
present, after which Mr. Madison proposed a
resolution, which Mr. Benson consented should
fupercede that introduced by him—it was to this
effect—That to aid the Supreme Executive in
the discharge of his important trust, there should
be three subordinate departments eftablifhed,viz.
The Secretary of the United States for the
Department of Foreign Affairs.
.The Secretary of the United States for the De
partment of the Treasury.
The Secretary of the United States for the
War Department.
rherefpeiftive heads of these departments to
denominated by The President, aijdappoint
ed by him with the advice and consent of the Se
nate, and to be removed by The President
alone— The addition of the Dciusflic Department,
"as again proposed.
The quelfion whether there lhould be three
departments palled unanimously in the affirma
tive.
( 'twas theft proposed to strike out the words
with the advice and consent of the Senate," as
an unnecefiary clause—This was voted in the
affirmative—The last clause " to be removed by
Pr.-fident," occalioned a very long and inte
resting debate which we have not Voom this day
toinfert, but alketch of which shall appear in our
next. It wasthenmoved, that " with the advice
a ' consent of the Senate" should be added after
I? Wor d " President," —in the last clause ;
I ns was negatived, and the vcte being taken 011
tie v, hole as amended, it palled in the affirmative,
second article, viz. " Secretary of the
Med Slates for the "department of the Treafu
r). was the next in order : when it was moved
that the farther consideration of the resolve,
Ihould be postponed—This being seconded the
committee rose, and the Chairman reported pro
gress. / i
The joint committee appointed to determine
upon the fubjeft of news-papers, and to receive
proposals for executing the public printing, re
ported in part to this effect—That it was ex
pedient to diminish the number of papers which
it had been customary to have handed in to the
members of Congrels, and therefore, that eve
ry member be furnifhed with one paper only, at
the public charge, each member to take such pa
per as he may think proper i'his report to
lie on the table. Jdjoumed.
NEW-YORK, MAY 20, 1789.
Monday last the Senate of the United States, with The Vice-
President at their head, went in a body, in carriages, from their
Chamber of Congress, to the House ot The President, where
the Vice-President read and presented to him the following AD
DRESS, in answer to his Speech, delivered to both Houses ol
Congress.
The Address of the Senate to the President of the United States, sin
anj'zver to his Speech to both Houses of Congress.
S I K,
WE,the Senate oftheUnited States, return you our fincerethanks
fur your excellent Speech, delivered to both Houses of Congress ;
congratulate you on the complete organization of the Federal Go
vernment, and felicitateourfelves, and our fellow-citizens, on vour
elevation to the office of President—an office, highly important by
the powers conft'.tutionally annexed to it, and extreme!v honora
ble from the manner in which the appointment is made. The
unanimous luHiage of the elective body in your favor, is peculiar
ly expreffivc ot the gratitude, confidence and affe£tion, of the citi
zens of America, and is the higheil testimonial at once of youi
merit, and of their esteem. We are fcnfible, Sir, that nothing but
the voice ot your fellow citizens, could have called you from a re
treat, cholen with the fondeft piedile&ion, endeared by habit,
and confecrat. d to the repose of declining years ; we rejoice,
and with us, all America, that, in obedience to the call oF our
common country, you have returned once more to public life.
In you all parties confide, in you all interests unite, arid we have
no doubt, that your part services, great as they have been, will
he equalled by your future exertions; and that your prudence and
sagacity as a Statesman will tend to avert the dangers to which we
were exposed, to give liability to the present government, and
digrtity and splendor to that country, which yourlkill and valoi
as a Soldier, so eminently contributed to raise to independence
and empire.
When w;e contemplate the coincidence of circumstances, and
wonderful combination of causes, which gradually prepared the
people ot this country for independence ; when we contemplate
the rife, prog tfs and termination of the late war, which gave
them a name among the nations of the earth, we are with you,
unavoidably led, to acknowledge and adore the great Arbiter ot
the univerf . by whom empires rife and fall. A review of the
mapy signal instances of divine mterpolition in favour of this coun
try claims our most pious gratitude. And permit us, Sir, to ob
fervc, that among the great events which have led to the formati
on and yitabl ihment of a Fed>l U Government, we eltcem youi
acceptance of the office of Picfidtnt as one oi the moil propitious
and impol taut.
In the execution of the trust reposed in us, we (hall endeavour
to puriaj that enlarged and liberal policy, to which your fpecch
so happily directs. We arc conscious t,nat the profpciity of each
State is infep?i ably connefttd with the welfare of all, and that
in promotmg the latter, we (hall effe&ually advance the former.
In full perluaiion of this truth, it (hall be cur invariable aim, to
divelt ourselves of local prejudices and attachments, and to view
the great aiTernblage of communities and interests committed to
our charge with an equal eye. We feel, Sir, the force, and ac
knowledge the niftnefs of the observation, that the foundation of
our national policy should be laid in private morality. If indi
viduals be not influenced by moral principles, it is in vain to look
public virtue; it is, therefore, the duty of Legislators to en
forct, both by precept and example, the utility as well as the ne
ccfTity 0/ aftridf adherence to the rules of distributive justice. We
you to be aflured, that the Senate will at all times chcerfully
co-operate in every measure, which may the Union,
conduce to the happiness, or secure and perpetuate the liberties
of this great Confederated Republic.
We commend you, Sis, to the prote£lion c?f Almighty "God,
•arneftly beseeching him lonj* to preserve a liie so valuable and
iear to the people of the United States and that your admin -
Iration may be prosperous to the nation and glorious to yourfelf.
In Senate, May 16th, 1789.
Signed by order,
JOHN ADAMS, j
To which the President was pleafcd to make the following reply—•
Gent lemen,
I THANK you for your address, in which the most affection
ate fentimcnts are expressed in the most obliging terms. The co
incidence of circumstances which led to this auspicious c rifts, the
confidence reposed in me by my fellow-citizens, and the assistance
I may expe£t from couufels which will be di&ated by an enlar
ged and liberal policy, seem to preface 3 more proiperous lffue to
my administration, than a diffidence of my abilities had taught
me to anticipate. 1 now feelmyfelf inexpreflibly /.appy in a be
lief, that Heaven, which has done lo much tor ourintant nation,
wilLnot withdraw its providential influence belr-re our political
felicity (hall have been completed; and in a conviction that the
Senate will at all times co-operate in every mealure which may
tend to promote the welfare of this Confederated Republic.
Thus fupportcd by a firm trust in the great Arbiter of the uni
verse, aided by the colle&ed wisdom of the Union, and implo
ring the divine benedi£tion on our joint exertions in the lervice of
our country, I readily engage with you in the arduous but plea
fins task of attempting to make a nation happy.
G. WASHINGTON.
It has been observed, that foreigners, who were never in Ame
rica, have been puzzled to localize the several parts of the Union,
and to aflign to each their proper name :—Hence States have been
called Towns—and Towns denominated Provinces, in the foreign
newspapers.—A Corrcfpondent queries—Whether equal confufion
will not take place refpe&ing the term President, which is ap
plied to the Vice-Pieiident when fp-aking of him in his Senator
ial character—and ir.- the fame unqualified manner is also applied
to the Supreme Magistrate of the North-American Empire.
The Patriot of America, must view with the utmost pleaiure,
the rifin* greatness of his country. Glorious indeed ! is the yrof
peft she now presents to view. Industry seems to have taken up
a residence among us, and with vigour to pulh forward the arts
and sciences : manufa&ures flouriih—agriculture thrives, and li
terature prevails in every rank.
In the English House of commons, March 13th, The House,
upon motion for that purpose, went into a committee " to con
sider of the trade between the fubjefts of his Majefly's dominions
and the inhabitants of the termors belonging to the United States
i>f America.
Lxtrafl. of a letter f rom London, dated March 9.
" The friends of your country are very anxious to know the,
operations ol your federal system, in order to be able to oppose
the general opinion that prevails, of your people being iftnpatieni:
under good government, and unwilling to be controuled by legis
lative authority. 0
"The elettionof General Washington to the Presidential
Chair, and the expe£ted choice of Mr. Adams as Vice-President,
will have an auspicious tendency. Europe as well as America,
concur in the praises due t > that great and good man, and are
well convinced, that nothing which can degrade your national
character, or diminish your national confcquence, will ever
meet with his assent.
"Mr. Adams, bv being employed in the diplomatic line in
England and Holland, must. have hod the best opportunities of mak
ing observations on the politics f Europe, as well as 011 the inter
n 1 fyltems of polity and public credit, which have a ggrandized
these nations, and rendt red them foconlpicuous for their resources.
Such knowledge must be of eminent service to you, 111 your ar
rangements of Finance.
" I am happy to observe, that our opinions on the of th •
United States are already elTentially changed—they are 110 longer
treated with that supercilious contempt, which their former m
fufficiency of government, and dilunion of fcntiments, gave too
much reason to juftify.
" Your situation and resources entitle you to hold a high rank
amonit the powers of the world. If your government is well
adminiitered, you will soon feel your consequence."
It is a very general idea, that the wisdom of
America at this important Epoch, will be disco
vered to the greatest advantage, by turning her
attention to those objects, which are obviously
within her Attainment, rather than to fubje&sof
experiment, in the preient ftateof her finances.
The commercial interests of thisGREAT CON
bEDERATED REPUBLIC are many and impor
tant, but complex to the highest degree, especi
ally in their present situation.
Their extention is circumscribed only by the
bounds of this lower creation : Are not the hardy
lons of the Eastern States now exploring the po
lar Regions of the North ? while others, the
" Mighty Hunters" of the Monsters of the Deep,
are compelling those of the South—and the In
dian Seas are ranged fromlile to Isle by enter
prising adventurers, from Georgia to Ns-jj-Hamp-
Jhire.
The Commerce of the several States is complex
—but this complexity does not involve incompa
tibility—our enemies have aflerted it, but their
interest was conne&ed with the currency of the
falfehood : The lie has been so often tc!d, that
it began to afl'ume the semblance of Truth.—•
However, nature having done every thing for us,
in point of climate, foil, and produce, to consti
tute a most perfect dpmeftic Commerce, nothing
remains, but to avail ourselves of these advanta~
ges, to prove that the interelt ofthe Union isONE
The operation of the National Government will
naturally open and expand the views of Ameri
ca : She has yet to learn how extensive are her re
sources—their competency to her wants, and to
all the purposes of refined enjoyment. •
The late War afforded an inadequate opportu
nity for these purpofcs : The repelling the enc
my, a great and powerful enemy, pofl'elling all
the advantages resulting from speaking the fame
language—having connections in all parts of ths
country, and being indefatigable in availing
themselves of these circumstances, to weaken and
divide, required that the whole foice of our ex
ertions fliould be centered to one point : The
discoveries we then tnade vfpeifting our Resour
ces, were incidental; but now. this must be the
great objcc r t of national concern : The Earth
the Sea—the Mountains—the Rivers—theForefts
—the Plains—and Climes of every Sun, invite A
merica to bfc wife—to be great—to be truly inde
pendent, happy, and glorious.
Our profpetfts as a people, turn upon the oper
ation of the New Government : Should its ad
ministration be entered upon with dignity, firm
nefs, a sacred regard to justice, and the rights of
the people, agreeably to the spirit of the consti
tution ; there can be no doubt of its answering
all the great purposes for which government was
instituted—and there can be no doubt of an ac
cordant disposition of the people—for they ful
ly realize, that " peace, liberty and fafety," with
all their attendant bleflSngs, depend upon just
and equal laws, faithfully, ftricftly and impar
tially executed.
The address of the German Lutheran Congre
gation of Philadelphia, affords a striking trail
of that Universal Sentiment of affection'to
wards the father of his country, which pervades
the bosoms of the various inhabitants who com
pose the great volume ps American citizens.
Errata in our last.
In the Jkctch of Thursday's Debate, the paragraph which begi/,,
" To counterbalance, &c." Jhould Jland thus—" To prevent any
discouragement to the Fisheries, ortothc exportation of provifionv,
irom the duty on Salt, it was voted, that a bounty of 5 cejits ea<Jlj„
should be allowed on the following Articles, which may be ex
ported to foreign markets, viz.
On dried Fish, pr. quintal,
Pickled Fish, pr. barrel,
Salted Provilions, pr. barrel.
In the JirJlclafs of Senators—for "John Elmer," read Jonathan
Elmer.
ARRIVALS.
At the Port of New-York.
Monday. Ship Francis, Power, Madeira. 44 days.
Ship Willfdn, M'Evers, Liverpool. 49 days.
Brig Barnard, Cape Francois. 20 days.
Brig Pearl, Pell, Newry, 63 days.
Tuefddy. Brig William, Stephenfon, Londonderry. 45 days.
Sloop Polly & Betfv, Folgier, Cape Francois. 14 d-ry^.INSTRUCTIONS FROM THE TOWN OF NEW
FORT.
To George Hazard, Henry Merchant, George
Champlin, Peleg Clarke, William Tripp, and
George Sears, Efqrs. Reprefentativcs of the To-ton
of Newport to the Hon. Genera/ Ajfembly of the
State oj Rhode-Mand and Providence Planta
tions.
GiNTtEMEN,
IMPRESSED with a sense of the necessity and
ruitice of an immediate compliance with the re
commendations of the Honorable the Congress,
refpecftingthe new form of government for the
United States of America, we cannot forbear
renewing our inftrudions to you on this interest
ing fubjeCt.
We are now arrived at a period, when the
principles which have actuated an opposition to
the calling a state convention in this State, can
not operate.
All the States (this and North-Carolina except
ed) have acceded to the new constitution, and
the latter hath ordered a convention to be called.
—The unanimity which hath prevailed in the
acceding States, in the election of a federal Pre
iident, Vice-President, Senators and Reprefen
tatives, hath fully evinced their approbation of
the prei'ent lyftem of government The new
Congreis is formed, and the new government
will be soon in regular motion, and operate with
suitable energy : The oppofers of it in this State
must therefore be convinced, that their oppofi*
tion to it hath proved and will prove ineffectual.
Let us now advert to some of the ruinous con
fluences which will result from the obflinate con
tinuance of an oppofitign to ameafure which has
been so generally adopted by die United States,
and is now established.
Thij State cannot exist without commerce,
agriculture and manufa<fiures ; these are natural
ly connected, and mult rife and fall together,
however the bad policy of some men may have
endeavoured to disunite them. But can \*e ex
peCl that our trade with the United States will
be continued if we still refufe to unite and har
monize with them, or that *t will be favorably
received by foreign nations ?
Have we not reason rather to conclude, that
we lhall be viewed by both as an impotent re
fractory State, which has forfei.ed all pretences
to a friendly intercourse with them : We lnav
therefore be assured, that our foreign trade must
cease for want of federal protection, and that the
ports of our once filler States will be fliut against us.
The inhabitants of the principal maritime towns
and of this in particular, will then fuffer the se
verest dillrefs : We receive the firft neceflaries of
life, bread and firewood, chiefly from the other
States ; and a large proportion of the inhabitants,
entirely depend for their subsistence, On Com
merce, and must perilh with its deftru<flion. In
this wretched situation, neceifity will oblige them
as the lalt alternative, to apply to the Federal
Government for relief and protection, and it Will
be undoubtedly afforded to them.
Anxious tc avoid the calamities, which threaten
us, and desirous to participate in the
which in the opinion of the WISEST and BEST
MEN in the United States, Svill result from an
adoption of the New Constitution, and at the
fame time, solicitous for the existence, happi
ness, and prol'perity of this State ; We your con
ftituents renew our InstruCtions, and urge you by
every confidcrarion that is dear and valuable, to
continue your strenuous and laudable exertions,
to obtain at the next session of the General Af
lembly, an a(ft fbr calling a Convention in this
State, for the purpose of adopting the Constitu
tion as recommended by the late General Conven
tion at Philadelphia.
Vfjtcd iffiajiimol/ sty.
P. BARKER, Toiuv-Cln^.'
■NATIONAL MEMENTOS.
"P HI L AT) tLPH lA, May 14, 1789.
A torrefpondent remarks, that were the Repre
sentatives in Congress to be continually present
ed With ail emblematic view of theftaples of their
refpecuve States, it might furniih them with
ufctul hints, and direct tlreir .councils to thept-o
motion of manufactures,from the great abundance
of raw materials produced in some States ; and
the extension of agriculture and commerce, from
the valuable produclions of others ; which might
afford a valt export trade, and be aii amazini
iburce of wealth a'fid prosperity.
In the Britilh House of Lords, the member are
i bated on wool Jacks, that the ittipoftattce of the
woolen manufacture, the great staple of Britain,
may be indelibly Jmpiefied on their minds. In
like manner, the Delegates in Coiigrefs might
have their feats wrought with some device, dif
criptive of the ftaplcs of their several Smt'es For
instance.
New-Hanipfliirfc might be represented by a pine
tree.
Maffichnfetts, by it-barrel 'of fi(h.
Rhode-lfland, (when federal) a hamper of
cheele.
Connecticut, an ox.
New-York, a hogshead of flaxfeed.
New-Jersey, a bundle of flax.
Pennsylvania, a bag of wheat.
Delaware, a bag of wool.
Maryland, pig an bar iron.
Virginia, a hogshead of tobacco.
North-Carolina, (when federal) a tafrel of tar.
South-Carolina, a bag of cotton.
Georgia, a barrel of rice.
Our correspondent is far from wifhiiigthe Dele
gates in the general government, to confine their
vi-eAfrs to the local interests of their refpe&ive
States ; on the contrary, he has no objection to
the above articles being represented in one general
device, to be fixed in some conspicuous place,
where Congress might have a constant view of it,
and be continually reminded of the duty they
owe to their country.
The ADDRESS of the Ministers, Church
\Vardens and Vestrymen of the German
Lutheran Congregation, in and near che city of
Philadelphia, to his Excellency GEORGE
WASHINGTON, President of the Uni
ted States.
SIR,
IT is with incxpreffiblc fatisfaiftion, that we,
the Ministers, Church-Wardens and Veltrymen
of the German Lutheran congregation, in and
near the city of Philadelphia, addreft your Excel
lency on the present great occasion. The entire
esteem, the exalted conlideration with which we
view your character, delightfully combine with
the duty we owe to this our country, and the love
we bare to every fellow citizen throughout these
ftatcs, in excitingusto announce the joy we enter
tain in your appointment to the station ofPrefi
dent in Chief.
The affairs of America, in which your Excel
lency bore so illustrious a part from the very
beginning of a moil arduoua.conteft —all along
exhibited more than the symptoms of a great and
general prosperity to be at length compleated.
The moll clouded portions of our time were not
without fume rays of hope ; and numerous oc
currences, through the blessing of Divine Provi
dence were brilliant and eminently fortunate.
The present happy crjfis sheds aluftre on the past
events of our Union, and it feemsto be the presage
of every thing desirable to come. Pleasingly do
we anticipate the blessings of a wife, efficient
government; equal freedom—perfe<ft fafety a
lweet contentment spreading through the whole
land—irreproachable manners with pure religion,
and that lighteoufnefs, which exalteth a nation!
Though as individuals we can be but Very little
known to you, yet as representatives, in some
refpedt, of a numerous people in this city ; and
being so situated as to know well the minds of
our German Brethren nearly through this state ;
we can with some propriety come forward in this
manner It is therefore with afjurance and plea
sure we affirm, that there is no body of people
whatsoever, that can or ever fliall exceed those
with whom we are connected, in affection for
your person, and confidence in your abilities, pa
triotilin and diftiuguifhed goodness. You are the
Man of their bosoms and veneration. On this
ground may we be entitled to some excuse for
what might seen. to be intrusion in the midst of
your numerous weighty engagements. And here
permit us to subjoin, that we shall never cease to
address Throne of Grace, with the fame
warmth and sincerity of heart for your present
and everlasting happiness, as for our own.
The President'* Anfiuer.
To the Ministers, Church-Wardens and
Vestrymen of the German Lutheran Congre
gation in and near Philadelphia.
Gentlemen,
WHILE I request you to accept my thanks for
your kind address, I mull pofefs myfelf highly
gratified by the sentiments of esteem and confide
lMtion contain lin it. Theapprobation my pall
conducft lias re*, "aved from so worthy a body of
citizens as that whose joy for my appointment
you announce, is a proof of the indulgence with
which my future tranfaiftions will be judged by
them.
I could not however avoid apprehending, that
the partiality of my countrymen in favor of the
measures now pursued, had led them to expetft
too much from the prel'ent government ; did not
the feme Providence which has been visible in
every stage of our progress to this interesting crifi.
from a combinatien of circumstances, give us
cause to hope for the accoinpliihment of all our
reaf'onable desires.
7 hus partaking with you in the pleasing anti
cipation of the blessings of a wife and efficient
government ; I flatter myfelf th.-: opportunities
will not be wanting for me tofhowmy djfpofition
to fencourage the domeflic and public virtues of
mduftry, (Economy, patriotism, philanthropy and
that righteoufnefe, which exalteth a nation.
I rtjoice in having so suitable an occasion to
teftify the reciprocity of my esteem forth nume
rous people .whom you represent. From ti. ex
cellent charaAer for diligence, sobriety and virtue
which the Genuaws in general, who are fettled in
America, have ever uiairitaiired ; I cannot fortear
felicitating niyfclf on receiving from so refpec
talila a number of them such ttrong a(l'urance3 of
their affeclion for my person, confidence in ruy
integrity, and'zeal to fcpportme in nsy endeavors
for promoting the welfare of our common country.
. So long as my conduit shall merit the approba
tion of the Wife and the Good, 1 hope to hold
the fame place in your affections, which your
friendly declarations induce me to believe I puf
fed at present ; and ajrsidft all the vlcifiitudes that
may await me in this mutable exiiteitce, I stall
earnestly deiire the continuation of an intereit in
yonr interceflions at the Throne of Grace.
G. WASHINGTON.
OF ThE CELEBRATED SIVLDEJ\'BURO.
The insanity of the Baron Swede nlvtg, rj>
pears evident to every feniible person who win
inveltigate liis works. He fays,that as he v. as fit
ting once at an inn in London, a light appeared
in the room, from which issued a voice whieli
said (it is afiecfting to mention it) " I am God
Almighty, and eat no more," fcc. He fays that
angels conversed with him for about thirty years,
that they told him of the internal or spiritual
fenfc of the Icriptui'es, that they brought, when
ever he pleased, various person* from the grave
to dispute before hint. He fays, that an anoel
brought to him two men out of the mocm, one
upon the back of the other, that they were like
little men, Homuniciones, though only about
three feet high, that they spoke from the Abdo
men, and not from the lungs as we do, ex Abdo
men et non exptilmone, and that they had rough
hoarse voices, which frightened away the foul
spirits in the moon from them. He appears how
ever, to have had virtues, and in his works are
frequent marks of genius. Solitude and study,
perhaps, turned his brain, which will often hao
pen to men of severe application. Dr. Tiffot "in
his Treatise De La Sante des Gens de Lettres,
fays, that the famous Pal'chal conceived an abyss
of fire always at his hand, and that othei-9 from
study and a f'edentaiy life, have fancied that
they had no legs and could not walk, that they
were butter, and have thrown themselves into
wells to be kept cool.
MISCELLANEOUS PARAGRAPHS.
Ki\csfON, (Jamaica) April 8. Monday lift a new pump,
eight inches diameter in the clear of thr fucking pipe, made by
Mr. Howard of this town, blacksmith and founder, was tried in
t.ic pieft nce of the file wardens, and a concourle of Ipcftatois; the
refuit of which was highly to the credit of that mechanic. After
the leveral fire engines had been filled, the fucking pipe of the
largeit was immersed in a tub, into which the f.ump discharged the
water, which it supplied with great ease ; the fucker of the feccmd,
- ing applied to the fame tub, both were fully supplied, together
with an overflow, nearly fufficient for even a third, at times when
the negro who w?s at the pump, exerted himfelf, there beuu but
one 10 trie handle at a time : —Upon the whole the purap gave
general iarista&ion, and is allowed to be the moll complete ever
exhibited in this country.—The new well near the bottom of
C lUrcjvSircet, into which Mr. Howard's pump is put, wascali
culated to contain about 2q 7 cubic feet, or nearly 60 puncheons
ol water, aud was emptied as far as the pump would fuck; (with
in a lew inches of the bottom) in twenty-two minutes.
Richmond, {Virginia) May 7. By an express just arrived
the County Lieutenant of Monongpj a.to the Honorable Exe
cutive o this State, we are informed, " that on the 23d ult. two
parties ol Indians attacked nearly at the fame time two fa rallies 011
JJunker.creck, about 2o'or 25 miles from Morgan's-town, and
killed one man out of one, and the man, his wife and two chil
dred, which was the whole of the other family. The alarm
given to the inhabitants 111 that part ol the country bvth:s mur
der, hath become very fericros, and unlrfs fime speedy afliftance
is given, it is the opinion that Monongalia river (which runs
through Morgan-town) will be the frontier in a short time."
Cionti-TowK, May 7. Wecannotbut congrjtt
"i ' our readers on the prolpeft of Pat wmack becoming {oon
the common channel of convey, n < e for the produce of the fertile
country t rough which it runs. The water carriage is already
0 art ahhfnea, that five waggons are kept for thepurpofeof
conlhmily plymg between Wales' branch, the common landing
and George town. Colonel Dai Ik's boat lall week, brought down
a load of 662 barrels of flour from Shepherds-town, in Virginia,
and paifed Snanandoah and Senec» Falls, with fafetv and ease.
t he expence of carriage is mnfiderably leiTened, from 8/4 and
1 '10 P^ r barrelfroTn Washington—and the boatmen are very
active in folicitmg employ.
» I^u' 1 ** 3 ~'- p " lA > May 15- A gentleman, who haslately visit
ed the country between the Delaware and the Sufquehanna, has
ui.c'i ett , t lat there are Sugar Maple Trees enough in the State ot
ttnnfylvania to make as much lugar as could be consumed in the
«»i c states. This Maple Sugar has been examined in .Philadel
phia, and yields loaves equal inquality to that which is made from*
ne jmce o the W eft-India cane. To freemen, its ought
to be enhanced by the reflection, that it is not stained with the
iweat and blood of Negro slaves.
A correspondent informs us, that a number of houfekeepeis in
is city iave determined not to purchase or use Lamb in their.fa
mi ies. This public spirited resolution coincides with the,recom
en ations of the old Congress, ana the example of the new. M
■n't*l- gram and ve S ct » b '--s are declining in price, the farmer
vvii m 11s profits conliderably increafcd by the preservation of
his lambs, and a careful attention to his Iheep.
_ N r~!rr Do , N ' Ma y ß - AMr - Edward Wcyman, of Charles
, Ut .-Carolina, har., (by advertisement)
or managers of Giafe-Houfes in the United States of America, that
t'i s IS sO/f O / e y ac^ in (he secret art and practice of
p a e-g a s grinding ; rubbing, polifhiug, diamond-cutting, and_
.t.ing , aTid is provided with the complcteil apparatus (out ot
uiopej to carry on the -above branches : All thole who wiih to
cnc°uAmerican manufa&ures, and chufe to correspond on
lS a ! *he Ci sting of plate-»lafs, may receive fur-
ITl" Wlth rc § ard to the manufa&ure, and the many
p. " nt *£ es therefrom, by applying to him, at No. 50*
Church-Street, Cba>lcßon. »
Published by JOHN FENNO, No! 9, Maiden
ant., near the Os wego-Mar'ke t, N e w-Yotr k.