No. VII.
SKETCH of the POLITICAL STATE of
j america _
NUMBER IV.
rf HAT temptation to fraud atid fubte.fuge,
I which the currency of a fluctuating medium
rented had a visible effedt upon the morals of
community, and tended to destroy that recip
rocal confidence, between the individual members
1 vh forms the great prop and cement of all io
is ever productive of vice and immorality, by pre
iudicin' the habits, and corrupting the manners of
Si • perhaps the reafonin- is no further true
than by opening a wider field for exertion, and
<!reater opportunity for the display of the powers
of the mind, the latent feeds of vice are in vibr
ated and the prolific foil which covers them being
loosened, they spring into view i Habits of dilfi
pa- ion naturally arise in armies, and among la. ge
collections of men, which the vigour of military
discipline is sometimes unable to controul ; and
which in a country, whose citizens are alio sol
diers are easily introduced among the great mass
of the people. This was peculiarly the situation
of America ; and that indolence and machvity,
succeeded enterprise and exertion, which bu: ill
become a young country, just emerged f rom a long
and expensive war ; and under the necessity of ob
taining future support by her own indultry, and
without the a rich parent. _ .
Conrnon danger no longer operating to direct
the views, and draw the exertions of her levcral
States to one common centre, a ciLivrciit lcene 10011
opened to our view: The recommendations of
Cougrefs having loft the support of that zeal and
enthusiasm, which had ever given them the force
oflavv, soon fervedonlyto present repeated proofs
of its declining power: The clangor of the trumpet,
and the din of arms, had deprived molt of the
States of an opportunity to form those plans of ci
vil policy, which require mature reflexion, and a
tranquil mind ; and languor and indecilion became
the charaderiftic marks of their future delibera
tions ; and the influence of those eternal rules of
luftice, which do honor to a people, daily became
more faint and-weak, till the opposite principle
in many instances, prevailed, and to do the molt
wrofig became the greatest object of emulation :
For want of that protcct ion and encouragement,
Which is derived from the foftering hand of a good
o-overnment, our citizens were obliged to resort to
the dominions of our late enemies, to pursue those
plans of buiinefs, and obtain that support which
their own country denied them. The blo'od of
tiiofe heroes, who"had fallen martyrs to freedom,
grew pale to the imagination ; and the exprellive
tear of the widow and the orphan, no longer com
municated emotion : The wretch, cripled in the
service of his country, was reproached for com
plaining ; and the foreign and domestic creditor,
Called in vain upon our Gratitude, our Justice and
Humanity- America, blush at the recital!
Our Ca-fars and Catatines watched, with an eager
eye, an opportunity to seize on the liberties of their
country ; and fell anarchy, with all her train of
concomitant evils, began to stalk with gigantic
ltrides over these confederated republics, and they
were alarmed by all those convulsions and agita
tions, which like the fulpliureous fermentations in
the bowels of the earth, frequently threaten adif
ibludort.
Unhappy for America, the toobenevolenta pre
emption upon the disposition of foreign powers,
prevented her feeing fufficiently seasonably, the
effedts of their baneful policy, while too ftronga
reliance on her own virtue—a supposed competi
tion of interelts between the States, and inexperi
ence in the condutft of national affairs, rendered
the eftablilhment of necessary regulations, of a
general nature, impoflible to be effected : While
only reasoning upon the fubjecft, and not till an al
most total decay of trade—want of employment
among her mechanics, and a general poverty of
her citizens, had taken place, could she be prevail
ed upon to adopt those measures, and pursue those
principles, on v'.iich her future prosperity and
happiness evidently relied. AMERICANUS.
(To 6, continued.)
Anecdote «/Crom well.
WHEN Cromwell was in Scotland with his troops,
lie went out one morning to fee the country with
only a few guards : a Scotch soldier, thinking to
make himfelf remarkable by doing some great
deed, fired at him from behind a dyke ; but having
milled his aim, Cromwell's guards were going to
seize andkill him. " Let him alone," said Crom
well (no way difconipoled,) and darting a look at
the fellow—•' You lubberly rascal, if any of my
soldiers had miffed fucha mark, I would have tied
him up to the halberds."
From SATURDAY, May 2, to WEDNESDAY, May 6, 1789;
ON SLAVERY.
EXTRACT FROM "AMERICAN ESSAYS.
EVERY man in the United States, who is tolera
bly acquainted with the hillory of the late war,
cannot be ignorant that many of the citizens ot
the Southern States, whose property principally
consists in Slaves, have greatly and glorioully clii
tinguijhed rhemfelves during the war, in every s.c!t,
quality, and principle, that conllitutes a true Pa
triot : Let not the citizens therefore of the north
ern States prel'ume to cenliirc those deferring pa
triots, or vainly arrogate to themselves superior
virtue,merely because from local,or Ovher adventi
tious circumstances, they have never owned a llave.
And now that those plundered Exiles are return
ed to their ravaged, ancj ruined pofteiTions, and are
gathering the poor scanty leavings of a cruel, ra
pacious enemy, can any man, without a blufb, ex
press a wish, to fee those worthy fellow-citizens
itripped of the poor remains of their once affluent
fortunes, or even talk of the future surrender of
their slender gleanings, without proposing, or ra
ther providing an ample recompence ? As 1 am not
individually interested in favor, or againll Slavery,
farther than I consider it the cause ot my fellow
men—fo not having maturely considered the fub
jecft, I do not conceive myfelf qualified, at present,
to treat upon it so amply as its importance feenls
to require, and/hall therefore only venture a few
cursory observations.
In defence of Slavery, it has incontrovertibly the
faniftion of numerous precedents, as it clearly ap
pears from sacred and profane history, to have
been authorized and pracflifed from the earliell
ages, and by the greatest nations, of which we
have any accurate knowlege : The Egyptians,
Phenicians, • Jews, Babylonians, Persians, Creeks,
and Romans, are recorded to have had large pof
fefiions infiaves : Athens, in the zenith of her glory,
contained only twenty one thousand citizens, and
four hundred thousand slaves * In th j moit tlourifli
ing periods of Rome, there was a still greater pro
portion of Haves, and fame individual citizens of
Rome were said to have poflefled thirty thousand
flaves.\ .
When it is also considered, that the native sub
jects of Africa, as far as we are at present acquaint
ed with the hillory of that country, hold their
lives and property, in general, at theabfolute will
and difpolal of their Princes, or Chiefs, and there
fore may be said to be born slaves. We may rationally
conclude, without supposing any natural inferior
ity, us some have lately fretsnded, can
more easily brook aftate of Slavery, thro any other
nation we are at present acquainted with ; anc j
when we fee, or hear of whole hecatombs facrificed
to the pride, or offered to the manes of some Afri
can Despot, and at the fame time view the situation
of slaves in general in the United States of Ameri
ca, it Would seem, by a fair comparison, that the
state of those Slaves was greatly meliorated by an
exchange of mailers : With these, let us at the
fame time compare the present slate of the poor in
the populous towns and cities of Europe, where
paflengers are continually Ihocked with the light
of thoufauds of wretches, fuperanuated—difeafed
without shelter—without food—without cloaths
without a friend—and without a MAS TER, to
whom they can look up, or on whom they have a
rightful and legal claim for protection and support ;
thus destitute and forlorn, the situation of the Slave
appears comparatively enviable ; for as among rude
and ignorant nations, age is generally more ref
pedted than amongthe more poliflied part ot man
kind, so the old and decrepit slave, on a planta
tion, seldom wants any comforts, which are in the
power of his children (who are rarely fepera
ted from him) or his felloW-flaves to bellow. But
when I review the acftions of that race
of Demi-Gods on earth, the almost adorid citizens
of Rome, I cannot but exclaim, with no small de
gree of indignation, what were they > A race of
Tyrants; of Mailers: Their boasted FREE Go
vernment ! What was it ? A scene of Ihocking,
difgraceful, degrading tyranny, and oppression :
Where even their Mechanics, and Laboiers, weie
denied the common privileges of men, and in many
refpeifts less regarded than the brute creation :
And where the wealthy is said to have fed
the fiflies in his ponds v>ith the jtejh of his slaves :
When I return from contemplating this horrid
scene, and survey the no less pitiable condition ot
the wretched Slaves at this present day, in the Eng
lifh and Dutch colonies, where I behold a petty ty
rant of ah Ovfcrfeer, lording "it over his fellow-crea-
NOTES.
* At'nenaus, lib. 6, cap. 20.
+ Ibid.
t Vedius Pollis—Donat. ad Terentii Phorir.: Ast 2. Scene I.
See oblervations concerning the diftinftion Of ran!; sin tociety. B;
John Miuaf, Esq. page 2cS ; inf.Ctr
lures, with whips oj scorpions, and w:th rods of iron ;
glutting by ttirhs his avarice, cruelty and luff ; "with
every other hateful pajfion, in wanton, vile exafi, upon
those paflive, injured, and defencelefs victims, my
foul recoils at the word SLAVERY ; and while I
pity the ignorant savage tyrants of Africa, I can
not forbear execrating the more enlightened, but
more barbarous tyrants in America. Yet these
men will pretend to own a comrnonFather of all Man- ■
kind, and ihamelefily deny that we are brethren ;
and they have the prefuinptionto affect to believe
that the great ft archer of hearts pays a particular rei
pecito the colour of the Skin. But it mult be allow
ed, that in all focietifes, fubordinanon and fervi.
tude are in some degree neceflary—Thefe natural
ly imply superiority and power : Power therefore
cannot be supposed in itfelf unjust, but only the
abuie of that poTrcr : A f. equent change, or rota
tion of property, occasioned by the introduction
of Commerce into many of the European States, has
greatly checked this wanton exercise, or abuf'e of'
power; and in many of those States, has by de
crees, totally abolished that villanage which exit
ed in the primitive ages. Yet, as in all civilized
Urates, an cxcefs of poverty will be the inevitable
lot of some, it may therefore naturally be expect
ed, that the poor in general will experience a cer
iain degree of dependence, and servility. And
as is not in the power of laws effectually to shield
every individual from every species of oppreiiion,
so it is to be expected that some masters will mal
treat their slaves, and some of the rich will dppreis
the poor ; if the state of the poor may be supposed
in some respects preferable to that of the Aiiican'
Slaves, yet I am of opinion, that in other respects
it mayfometimcs be lei's eligible, unless we ffioula
allow an equal degree of sensibility to mankind
in every state and condition, which opinion I can
not think, .either reason, experience, or common
observation will warrant : Be that as it may, all
Europe evinces, that where there are no Black
men, there mull be white men to do the menial,
and other servile offices requiiite in society ; or in
other words, where there are no black /laves, there
must be white slaves. But as slavery, however con
venient, or even just, may not appear perfectly
compatible with the opinions of Americans, as ad
vocates for certain natural inalienable rights e
qually appertaining to all mankind, so it may b£
presumed, there are few owners of slaves, who
V/ould not freely make a large discount, in order
to exchange that species of property, for such as
would be more consonant to their feelings, anu
principles. But in what manner those slaves when
manumitted, are to be supported, is a matter or
vast importance t6 be previously considered, and
adjuftecl; which will I fear be found to be at
tended with insurmountable difficulties, for how
ever strange it may appear, it is nevertheless true,
as has been proved in various iuftances, thatthere
will be but a small proportion of the whole num
ber of slaves, who will be able to provide for them
selves, and therefore unless retaken into the fame,
or limilar service, and'ftate, will become a griev
ous burthen to the community ; which in addition,
to the present numbers unemployed in America,
and the price that justice will require to be paid to
the owuers for their manumiflion, will be proba
bly more than we iliall speedily be able to oear.
E. C.
Mr. Fenno,
AS many person-: are hot poflefled of any just
ideas of the origin of those enormities, which have
been perpetrated in the East-IndieS by Englilh ad
ventures, the following, taken from an Europeari
publication, may be fatisfattory to some of your
readers, as it has been to E. Z.
7'he Origin end Progress of the British Power and
Oppression in ludia.
DURING the time of the Mogul government,
the Princes of that race, who omitted nothing for
the encouragement of commerce in their .domini
ons bestowed very large privileged and immuni
ties on the English Eaft-Inuia company, exempted
them from feverstl duties to which their natural
born fubjec'ts were liable. The company's duftrtut
or paflport, secured to them this exemption at all
the custom-houses and toll bats of the country.
The company not being able, or not chufing to
make use of their privilege to the full extent to
which it might be carried, i idulged their servants
with a qualified use of their paflport; under which,
and in the name of the company, they carried on
a private trade, either by themselves or in society
with natives ; and thus found a compenfktion fov
the scanty allowances made to them by their mas
ters in England. As the country government was
at that time in the fulnefs of i.s strength, and
this immunity existed by a double connivance,
was naturally kept within tolerable limits.
PRI'CE SIX r EJi CE .But by the revolution in. 1757, the company's
servants obtained a mighty afVendant over the
native Princes of Bengal, who owed their elevation
to the British Arms. The company, which was
new to that kind of power, and not yet thoroughly
apprized of its real character and iituation, conli
deied itfelf still as a trader in the territories of
a foreign potentate, in the profperky of wliofe
country it had neither interest nor duty. The ser
vants, with the fame ideas, followed their fortune
in the channels in which it had hitherto ran, on
ly enlarging them with the enlargement of their
power, tor their firft ideas of profit were not
official; nor were the;r oppreilions those of ordina
ry defpotifin. The firft inftrumeilts of their pow
er were formed Out of evafionsof their ancient fub
jedions. The paflport of the company in {he hands
of its lervants was no longer under any restraint;
and in a very ffiort time their immunity began to
cover all the mercharidifs of the country. Coffiin
Aii khanj tlie fecjoud of the Nabobs whom they
had let up, wasbut id dlfpofed to the iiillruments
or his greatness. He bo:etheyoke of this impe
lious commerce with the utiaoft impatience: he
fsw his f<: l>j"<.ts excluded as aliens from theirown
trade, :vnd the revenues of the Prince overwhelm*
c ! :n '.he rein of the commerce of his dominions.
Finding his reiterated remoriftrances on the extent
and abuse of the paflprrt ineffectual, he had re
cou; fe, to an expedient, which was to
declare his refoluaon at once to annul ail the da
ties 0.1 trade, luting- it equally free to fjibjedts
and to foreigner;.
;H. vefvyas the method of defeating the oppref
fioiis of, monopoly more fycible, more fimplc, or
mo'-e equita'le: no fort of plaufiWe objections
could be mad'*; mul it. was U) vain to' think of evad
ii.'g it. It was therefo •<; met with the confidence
of avowed and determined injufticb. The preli
dency of Calcutta openly denied to the Prince the
power of protecting the trade of his fubjejfts, by
the remiiiion of his cty.ii da ies. It was evident
tha' hi. author!'y dew to its pes-io.l; ni any "re a
foils and motives concurred, and his fall was hast
ened by the odium of the cppreflior.s which he
< xercifed voluntarily, as well as those to which he
was cbliged to fi.bn-.it.
V hen this example was made, TaiTier'Ali Khan,
who had been disposed to make room for the last
a<ftor, was brought from penury and exile to a sta
tion, the terms of which he could not niifunder
ftand. Duiing his life, and in the time of his
children who fitcceeded him, parts cf the terri
torial revenue were aligned to the company; and
the whole, under the name of residency at the
Nabob's court, was brought diretftly or indirciflly,
under the cotitroul of British fubjeifl?. The com
pany's servants, armed with authorities delegated
from the nominal government, or attended with
what was a stronger guard, the fanieof their own
power,, appeared as magistrates in the markets in
winch they dealt as traders. It was impossible for
the natives ;n general to diftingniQi, in the pro
ceedingsof the fame perfons> what was tranfac rt
ed-onthe company's account, from what was done
on their own; and it will ever be so difficult to
draw this line of diftincftion, that, as long as the
company does, directly or indireifi.lv, aim at any
advantage to itfelf in the purcliafeof any commo
dity whatever, so long will it be impracticable to
prevent the servants availing themselves of the
fame privilege.
The servants therefore, for thetnfelves, or for
their employers, monopolized every article of
frade, foreign and donieftic ; not only the raw
merchantable commodities, but the manufactures,,
and not only these, but the neceflaries of life, or
in these countries, habit has confounded
with them; not only silk, cotton, pie.ee goods,
opium, ihltpetre, but hot nnfrequently fait, to
bacto, betel nut and the grain of most ordinary
confiimption. In the name of the country govern
ment they laid on or took off, and at their plea
fare height'med or lowered, all duties upon goods :
tlie whole trade of the country was either destroy
ed, or in fhdckles. The acquisition of the Duan
ne, in 1 765, bringing the Englilh into the imme
diate government of the country,'in its most ef
fential branches, extended and confirmed all the
former means of monopoly.
In the Progress of these ruinous measures,
through all their details, innumerable grievances
were fuffered by the native inhabitants, which
were repiefented in the strongest, that is, their
trite cclotirs, in England. \\ hilft the far great
>r nart of the British in India were in eager pur
suit of the forced and exorbitant gains of trade
carried en bv power, contests naturally arose
ainoJ g the competitors: those who were over
powered by their rivals, became loud in their
coin plaints to the court of directors, and were"
very captd le, from experience, of pointing out
t very mode of abuse.
Am.cdote oySwiFT and Addison.
O'VE evening, duujijr a icte-a-tete r.onverfation between Addifo*
ii.t. Swili, the various char &ers in Scripture •were cam'afled, and
tl.Mt merits and demerits were fully difcuflVd. Swift's favourite,
however, was. Jofepli, while Addi'fon contended strongly for thf|
arivable* Tonathau. The difpulc lasted some time, when the author
of Catoobfervcd, thk it was very fortunate they were alone,.as the
chara&er which he h<-d been prailingfo warmly was the name-lake
cf Swift—while the other, ol which SwKr h?d been folavifh in l is
commendations, the namefnke of Addifor.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
By the Ship Jane, Capt. Hay nes, who arrived here
on Friday Evening, in 49 days from London.
LONDON, February 26.
THE letter which Mr. Pitt received from Kew on Monday
night, vvhich commanded his atterfdance there 011 his M:ijeily, the
following day, was in the King's owrn hand wiHting, and is one of
the firft letters which His has written fmce the happy reco
very from his late dreadful illneis.
We are informed, that when the Ambafladors of Tippo Saltan
were taking leave at the court of Vei failles, they requeftcd to know
wh t mark of friendfhip from their mailer would he fnoft fatisfac
t->ry to the King of France : 011 whieh the King declared, "that
'he liberty of any Englilh officers orfoldiers, who might still be de
tained' prifbtitrs in the Saltan's dominions, and more especially of
-lose who had been priloners with M. Suffrein, would be the
greatest test of regard tor his Majesty." A declaration, which re
il-fif honor upon the throne from which it proceeded, and which
exalts its author above the rank of Kings ! The Prate&or of Hu
manity !
"It was not, we are informed, the intention of the court of France
( • make this inter eft ing requell known, till ; t took a kappy effc£l in
India-: The Indian AmbaffadoVs gave the full public intimation of
thexequeft : M. Suffrein wrote upon the fame fubjefl a very strong
i :ler to Tippo. and orders have been sent to the French governors
m India touie every pottihle influence at the court of Tippo to car
1v a point equally, interesting to humanity, and to the policy of an
enlightened and powerful nation.
The particulars of a negotiation, so creditable to its author, and
which displays so happily the liberal Iroirit of the age, cannot and
ought not to remain long unexplained.
[Ths above article exhibits a,i evidence, among & thou fund, others, that
inly occur, of the encreafmg urbanity, and refinedJenfburty oj the pr J, nit
&■■*£■ —and u vie it extorts a jujl tribute of applause on the MONARCH
OF FRANCE, the generous acknowledgement of the Eng/ijk is highly
coir'ptmtirtkry to their charaSer.~\
Feb. 28. By His Maiefty's command the Physicians* report
to be discontinued from this day.
By pnvate letters from Madras we learn, That Tippo Sultan has
latfcly made on the frontiers of the Carnatic, some military move
ments that indicate a strong defiire to break a peace to which lie
confuted foI*reluctantly.1 *reluctantly. Educated in camps, and accuflomcd liom
his infancy to the dmot war, that turbulent and enterprising Prince
will never cease to employ a<*aiiijl the Englijjb, eVcry engine of forcc
or fraud, till such time he has driven them from the Carnatic, 01
ruined himfrlf in the attempt."
Mj. Hastings' trial is to be re fumed on the 16th of April next.
Tin- Kir?; we are liappy to fay, is recovered. He is now asper
f< <:lly himfelf lis he ever was.at any period of his life. All thai re
miins to be guarded against, is, the poflibility of arelapfe, A gain f]
[ nis, thci c are icafons as well grounded as the bed observations o
phyfi i-uis can pollibly be.
On that observation, His May fly's malady has been held to be
not kn Inf.initv, but a Delirium —and for this reafon—ln Cases o
Infaiiity,'the diiordei is little affc£led by the pulse. The pattern
retains hi£ disorder, be the pulse high or low.
In <*as s of Delirium; the thing is dire£lly the revcrfe : As th<
fever Aecre'afes, the patient recovers his mental faculties.
It has happened exa&ly so to His Majesty. When his pulse wi'
v 126, his malady was at its height. His pul r e now is at 64, and
he i* perfectly recollefled : and it will be a fatisfafl on to the pub
lic to know, that cases of detipum cease with the cause, and scarce
! v ever return. Thr King now fees, and couverfes with pertett
compo.fure, with different people ; and so sensible is he atprefent of
what has pasTed, that he only requests they would not talk to him
00 public atfaiis—" Let me be-quiet for the present." . ,
tVing announces a second campaign against the Turks. The
>aipunyof miners, commanded by Capt. Chatel et, quitted
Piefs some time fmce to go to Gradilka; they are ordered to march
as f-jft as poflible. The next campaign we will be opened
by the siege of Birbir.
The peace of the North, which many have exprefled a hope to
fee eftabliih d, does not leem likely to be fettled without a farther
appeal to arms. Foi although the King of Swelen, on the 25th
uit. declared b Vtfjnd to the Diet of that Kingdom, yet their con
tinuing to arm vigor, and the general unanimity that prevails
between the Ki'ngf and his States, are strong motives to excite our
belief, that war will continueon the part of Sweden.
Nothing could poflibly be more incommode to opposition, than
the recovery of the King, A noble Lord, fuppofmg his appoint
ment to the Lieutenancy of Ireland certain,had bespoke all his live
ries, which were uncommonly ornamented with lace. They were
actually finifhed, and ready to be packed up. The new Favorite's
coach-maker indeed waslefs precipitate in his operations. A fpleh
did carriage, lined with rose—colored satin, was ordered, but coun
ter-ordered before any progress in the work was made.
Theatre, Covent-Garden.
A few minutes before the curtain drew up, on Saturday night,
Dr. Will 1 s took his feat in the King's Box : His green glafles
were on, and he kept them on during the whole Evening. The
moment he wasfeated, the band, as if by previous intimation, struck
up God save the King. And at the end of the play, the a£lors
came on the stage and sung it. And, as Garrick said, all this
for Dr. Wi l i.is.
What a pity Dr. Willis was not sent for, previous to the break
ing out of the American war. Who knows but he might have fa
veo America, as well as an hundred millions of money, and a hun
dred thousand lives.
' HOUSE OF LORDS.
Thursday, March 5, 1789.
Regency Bill.
The Lord Chancellor left the Woolsack, and said, the idea their
Lordships had gone upon in their late adjournments, had arose
from their wishes that his Majesty might have as much time as pos
sible allowed to him for the 1 re-establishment of his health as could
be allowed, consistent with the pressure of public affairs, before
he took any part in the public buiinefs.
Since their last adjournment, his Majesty had found his health so
far re-eftablilhed and confirmed, that he had exprefled his intenti
on of fignifying on Tuesday next, to his parliament, what business
was neceflary to be taken ; he should therefore move their Lord
ships to adjourn to Tuesday next.
Ordered rem. dif.
At five o'clock the House adjourned, till Tuesday next.
HOUSE OF COMMONS.
'Thursday Marc fl 5, 17 89.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer rose and said, from the pre
sent happy state of his Majesty's health, he had the pleasure to in
form the House it wzs probable that they would receive a commu
nication from the King on Tuesday next: he should therefore move
the House to adjourn to Tuesday next. i
The King's (of Great-Britain) personal property amounts to seven
millions Sterling.
Copley is casying on the fiegeof Gibralter, withthofe flowand
regular which cannpt fiail of success. One barge of
Marines, formsa pr'neipal-feature of the work, and isdifpofed with
a dexterity, and a fertility of invention, peculiar to this great master.
March 7.
The commotions in Brabant seem now drawing to a crisis ; for
no doubt can now remain of the Emperor's intention. That he
has fold the country to Fiance appears evident ;/for no power can
be so great a stranger to the intrigues of that cpurt, as to allow it
<o garrison Us fortified towns on the faith of having them restored.
Ws have long intimated a fecrat correspondence which has nf
fed between the courts, oi Vienna and Versailles. The Queen h
been trying every art to give tne Emperor some effe&ual alfttfan/*
and it now seems that the country oi Brabant is to be the price of
it. It only remains to be Jftiown in what manner the Fleming
will refill fach an ufurpatlon.
THe Emperor has presented Prince Potemkin with a far 0 f
the'value ol 1 b0.600 "florins*.
Letters from Wurfaw, do red February 8, fay, that the spirit of
>ppofition between tiie lwo pmjcipal parties wiiich divide that re
public,,_far from diminishing, augments daily; they are nolonr er
content with differing in opin,>>n only, but even proceed to thofc
fctal marks ot diltindion wiiich, without doing the least good, , x
cite divisions, and produce many other evils. The triumphal
party wear red caps with gold ; those of the King's green on fs
with gold lace. The latter use all their endeavours to re-eftablift,
the pi 1 manent council ; and it is altomflnng how they resist the
opposite party, efpeciaily as it seems neither the court of Ruflia nj r
Vienna will luppoit them against the patriotic party, which ad.
pears to be fuppo>ted with the approbation of a powerful poten
tatc, and will no longer hear of a permanent council, but meant,)
form another under the title of "a council of vigilance, which wiil
be of a quite different form, and where his Majtiky will have ve.
ry little jnflunece.
Pera, Dec. 21. This morning we were astonished to hear that
Oczakow had been carried by the aflault of the Ruflians.-— Tnu
news was so little expelled, that moll part of the foreign mini,
ft-rs had sent advices to their courts of the fuge having been raised
PROCEED INGS of CO NCR ESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of tlx
UNITED STATES.
Monday, M.y 4, 1739.
The House met agreeably to adjournment.
A petition from the ihipwrights of the to\?n of
Baltimore was prefentedby Mr. Smith, and beinj
read, was referred to a committee of the whole ot
the state of the Union.
Mr. Madison gave notice, that on the fourth
Monday of the pretest month, he ihould introduce
the fubjeifl of amendments to the Conftiturion,
agreeably to the fifth article of the Conftiturion'
He thought it necelfary thus early to mention the
business, as it was weighty and important, and up
on motion,the time proposed by the gentleman was
ilfigne-d.
Mr. Ames presented three petitions from private
persons, wiiich were ordered to lie 011 the table.
Mr. Goodhue then proposed, that the remain
der of the report of the committee, rel'peotiiig
tonnage, Ihould be taken up.
The firft article was then read, viz. Thatallvef- .
lels belonging to a citizen or citizens of the United
States, Ihould pay a tonnage duty of 6 cents.
Mr. Br. a nd proposed an amendment, whichwas
seconded, viz. That these words Ihould be ad
ded—excepting veflels bound from one port to a
nojher within the United States.
The gentleman observed, that as the article now
flood it was contrary to the express letter and
meaning of the Conftiturion, which provides that
veilels bound to or fioni one State, (hall not be
obliged to enter, clear or pay duties in another.
Mr. LawrenC'. was opposed to the amendment:
He thought that the Conftiturion fully warranted
the laying a tonnage duty—that the article the
gentleman referred to was plain in its meaning,
and ought to be construed only as referring to en
trances and clearances at a third port —coaftingvef;
I els were greatly benefited by light houfes,pilotage,
&c. and it was but reasonable that they Ihould pay
for those advantages.
Mr. Madison was in sentiment with Mr. Law
rence, in his conftrudtion of the meaning of the
clause in the Conftitutioh. The ideas of some
gentlemen upon it, he obferved,were unreasonable
and inconsistent, he conceived, with the Conllitu
tion, and inuft in their opinion totally defeat the
revenue—for if veilels were not obliged to enter
and clear at some port, the whole duties might be
evaded : He thoiught the conftrudlion of the arti
cle simple, and eafyto comprehend.
Mr. Bland replied, that he was not convinced
of the impropriety of his motion—the gentleman's
reasoning, he conceived, went too far —here was
a plain,poffitiVe declaration,and if we were tofup
pofe, that because the Conftiturion gave Congress
neceflary powers, it gave them every power, they
would be absolute at once : The article was defi
nite, he conceived ; but gentlemen have put differ
ent conftru<ftions upon it—it was however well
known, that the Convention in framing this article,
designed to encourage the coasting trade.
Mr. Li vermor e, Mr. Baldwin andMr.CiYME*
coincided in sentiment with Mr. Madison.
Mr. Boudinot observed, that this amendment
would deprive Congress of all power to raise a re
venue : The Conftiturion had veiled such power s
in Congress, and they were sworn to support the
Conftiturion : When these powers were duly
considered, heprefumed, that it would not be con
tended, that they had not this in particular : The
idea of the Convention in the conftruCtionofthe
clause, was to preclude all partiality to any indi
vidual State : It moreover extends, he observed»
to all veflels indifcrimmately, so that theconftruc
tionof the gentleman goes to exempt all from any
obligation to pay duties—Sir,lhall a veflel bound to
Europe not pay tonnage,becaufe she may collet hei
cargo at different porrs upon the continent this
would entirely overset the whole fyftein of r£ '
venue. " ■ '
Mr. Bland replied that the Constitution was expr£ ,s »
that no duty ihould be imposed or paid by one-State on
the articles of another ; Tonnage was a duty ofihis de
scription.~ i: is "prefslydeclarej by the Con
■"r' \ Conerels (hall have power to reguiate trade,
o oblige vessels to enter and clear, t
It'purHe' s this power given r_Caa they be laid to
<L trade in any degree whatever ? .
Sylvester oWerved, that the article was ex-
V .. words could make it, to his appreheniion thete
P ! .« h, another" plainly indicated,, that the duty hau
V „,;d'at'femeone port, to entitle to an exemptio
been p ilu ° f
«rb-ng taken, it palled in the negative,
, Blah d's amendment was loft
The firft artic'.c was then P ut and carried
Thefecond article was alia voted, with this amend
mei.t! tii* iniertion of the word NOW, before owned—
js it ooiv (lands. . r TT
The third article came next in course, viz. Upon a.i
veiTels owned by the fubjeds of power, with whom the
United State J had formed treaties, &c,
Mr Lawrence proposed, and was Seconded, thatthe
#o rds, with whom the United States had formed treaties,
fbould be (buck out ot the report. .
This produced,a debate, which was lupported witn (pi
rit and ingenuity on both (ides .
Mr CAWititCE obfervci, that the present fituauon o!
the united States, fliould lead her to übferve a perfect
teutialuy with relped to all foreign n.t ons whether in
treaty with us or not—that we had not Hupping lufi.ient
to export the produce of the country—confequ:nily, we
null Employ foreign vesselt —nations m treaty could not
fornifto*. and therefore we were under the neceflky to
employ t ,e Briufh, thof« of our allies, and American, to
traniport our produce, or eife it mull periili cm our :
This r.eccffity places us in the power of-fereigie, s, and
rives them every advantage.—Freight will b-.- inhanced
in proportion to the tonnage, so that th'.s difcrimmation
operates as a bounty to foreigners, and a tax upos ourown
prodi.ee: But 1 appeal to ger.tkm. n, (Mr. Lawrence
uid) whether the produce of the country can bear any
addition to its pr:«—with relped to rice and tobacco,
gentlemen from the fouth*ard mull determine—as to the
produce of the eallern and northern States, it was well
known it could not—the eaibrn filheries, it had
plaicly proved were in a declining li ustion already—
This diicrimination will be considered as a retaliating
ra . a i urc . [t is fad tliat no commercial treaties now exitl
between the United States and Spain, Portugal and Great
Britain—we carried on a great trade with those countries;
we might form luch treaties ; but iu;h regulations as
were now propoled, would produce firoilar on their part —
and in thai cafe our condition, bad a» it is, will be changed
forthe worse. As the fith from the eastern States will be
incumbered with duties in Spiin and Portugal.—As the
mejfure refpeded Great Britain, the gentleman thought
it was better to negociate, than to wage a war of regula
tions—it would be better to try this mode at the prelent,
the other would always be in our power— i his diicrimi
nation will have a disagreeable etted—Great Britain is
rich, old and powerful —we now derive advantages,
great and many in our intercourse with thein—their ports
in India were to us, a trade that was considered of
immense importance, and which the influence of that
nation in India could materially affect, either in our favor
or again!)—the gentleman hoped we lhould there
fore adopt negocia.ion before we tried the proposed ex
pedient.
Mr. Madison considered the fubjed is involving a
general question—how far any difcriinination lhould be
made: Gentlemen had oliferved, that our (hipping was
not fufficient, he believed that was the fad at present,
and if we did not want a maritime power, if the United
States did not need a navy, he lhould be for opening our
ports to the who'e world —But it is, Sir, (the gentleman
observed) receffary to provide fcr our security—and
though i\e may be obliged to pay a temporary advance
and make ioroe facrifices to obtain it, yet it would prove
afavingin the end, and may prevent the horrors ot war.
Nothing efTerti'illy different, from wha.t had before
been offered, has been now said, —I (hall therefore refcrve
myfelf to make a motion, that time may be given for
the operation of this duty.
It is evident, that the sentiments of the people are in
favor of a discrimination, evidenced by the separate at
tempts of the refpedive governments, and if in the firft
ast of Ccmgrefs this diftindion (hould be aboiifhed we
(hall certainly disappoint cur constituents. The gentle-
Wan last speaking contends, that we enjoy, advantages
in our connections and trade with Great Britain.
Bat fir, it is evident, that the object of that nation has
been an universal monopoly: felfilh in her commercial
regulations, we derive no benefits from her, but (uch as
are extorted by her attention to her own necellities, and
our peculiar advantages: There was a moment when
Great-Britain would have negociated, but reverting to
tier narrow policy, the want ot power on our part was cb
jefted to. The executive of that country, have th,
power to regulate their commerce as the Hate of things
here may didate, varying their fyliems so as to pro
note their own interell. Ido not fear their retaliating,
they have no new expedients to try: If necelTary, the
people will associate, and it is very certain that since thi
reiources of the country have been explored, and oui
capacity for manufadures ascertained ; an association
a gainlt their manufactory, will now produce a greater
c °nfternation than ever. 1 conceive »c have nothing tt
apprehend: but supposing the word, what grievous wound
can Great-Britain inflict ? Retlridions on the trade to
tne Weft-Indies would soon bring them to reason, the\
full depend for the necessaries of life in those islands,
on this country entirely, in a few years. What do w<
from Great-Britain ? we may make them depend
u P°n us, and (he would very fooa facrifice her pride ra
tlltr than facrifice the eflentials of her trade and manu
fa£lures. Their islands depend upon us for fubfi;lence—
at this moment we hear tne cry of diltrels from one ol
.iem : We have nothing to fear, the fears a:e on their
tide. I have not, time particularly to go inio a compa
nion of the commerce of foreign countries, but our
JIL is now received upon peculiir advantages in
France: cur RICE will soon be admitted accordi ig to
the bell accounts. We Ihould not surely discourage our
dlies at this interesting period ; there are between 80 and
90000 hogiheads of tobacco exported to England, and
out about 16000 are consumed in that kingdom; tiie
relt was re-lhipped by the merchants of Great-Britain,
to all parts of the continent, and the fame may be said
of the principal part of our produce lent to that coun
try. Our ALLIES merit ibme advantages to place
-heir navigation upon snore equal terms : It would be
pleasing fir, if some diflinftion could be made in favour
of Spain and Portugal, but at present, I do not fee how
it can be done. Treaties, however, may soon be form
ed between us and those powers: I rely upon the con
liftency of condud, which will be observed by this house.
Our conllituents are all anxious for some dilcrimination,
and will be disappointed (hould the words in the report b(
llruck out. Ido not contend for a great difference, but
a difference is necessary, politic, and just.
Mr Fitzsimons observed, that Great-Britain takes
-xc'ufively from us, lumber —if 40s. per thousand dut)
was laid, they mull pay it; the fame may be said of
provisions: This was proved by the rife of these arti
cles, and the rife of their freight—the freight was not
in proportion to the tonnage —the rice of Carolina, was
another article not to be produced ellewhere—flaxfeed
and potash also from the ealhvard—6s. Bd. duty on ton
n.ige had been paid in some of the dates, but it did not
enhance freight, the charges fall on the conlumer. He
acknowledged there might be some difficulties on ac
count of Spain and Portugal, but none with Great-Bri
tain, we were their bail cuilomers.
Mr. Wadswuhth was oppofedto alldifcrimination—
vie enjoyed, he observed .great advantages in our trade with
G. Britain : Our flaxfeed, potafti, naval stores and lumber,
were carried there upon equal and better terms than from
other countries, that they were not corfined to our mar
ket for these articles was well known, that to deprive
ourselves of this market would be the greatest ill-policy
as we could find no substitute : it had been acknowledged
th.it the (hipping of the States, was not fufficient to
transport the productions of the country in this situati
on, fl.all we prohibit a competition between the several
maritime powers, for our carrying trade, and luffer our
produce to perish on our own hands? Policy forbids it—
the slate of the union forbids it—and he conceived the
house would be in favour of the motion to Strike out the
clause in the report —several otheT gentlemen spoke
upon the fubjedl ; Mr. Jackson', Mr. Sherman, Mr
Lawrence and Mr. MADisbv, again; but the fub
ltance of the whole debate is contained in the foregoing.
The vote being taken to strike out the words " with
whom the United States have formed treaties." It pal
led in the negative, lb the motion of the Hon. Mr. Law •
re nc e , was lolt.
The House adjourned.
Tuesday, May 5, 1789. ,
Rev. Mr. Linn, the Chaplain of the Hpule officiated
for the firft time.
Mr. Benson presented the report of the committee,
appointed to conlider what title, or whether any other
than what the conftitntion points out, fliould be given tc
the Prelident and other officersofthe national government
—which was that it was not proper to give any other ti
tle, than what the Constitution contains —This report wa:
unanimously accepted.
Mr. Madison, one of the committee appointed tc
answer the Speech of The President, introduced tht
report of that committee, which being read by the Clerk,
it was referred to a committee of the whole Houle—where
being read and amended, was unanimously palled, and
afterwards accepted by the House.
Mr Bland introduced the resolution of the State ol
Virginia, upon the fubjedi of amendments, which aftei
some conversation, was ordered to be entered on the jour
nals of the House, and the original deposited with the
files in the Clerk's office.
That part of the report of the committe of the whole
re:~pe£ting tonnage, was then resumed—upon which Mr
Jackson proposed, that the sum of jo cents on foreigr
tonnage of nations in alliance, should be flruck out, anc
2oinferted. —This produced a long debate, (ketches ol
which (hall appear in ourjiext.—No decision was had
upon the proposition, when the House adjourned.
NEW-YORK, MAY 6.
THE PRESIDENT'] HOUSEHOLD.
WHEREAS, all Servants anil others, employed to procure Pro
v'fiors, or supplies, for the Household of The President of th<
Unit ed States, will be furnifhcd with moniesforthofe purposes,
Notice IJ therefore given, That no Accounts, lor the payment of which
lie Public might be considered as refponable, are to be opened wits
any of them. Samiil Fraunces, Sttaiard of the Household.
May 4th t 1789.
We are happy to inform our readers, in addition to the preced
ing Notification,that weundcrftand The President is determined
ed to puifue that f; fie in of regularity and economy in hit house
hold, which has always marked his public and pi ivate life. As :
oroof of this we learn, That the Steward is obliged, by his article:
of agreement, to exhibit, weekly, a fair statement of the receipts
>nd expenditures of monies by him, for and on account ot 1 hi
President's Household, to such person as The President ma\
appoint to mfpeS the fame ; together with the several bills and re
ceipts of payment for those articles which maybepurchafed byhmi
where such bills and receipts can be obtained And it is l.kewif,
tronelv inculcated upon the Steward, to guard againftany waste o
xtravjgance, that might be committed by the lcrvants ot the family
AMERICAN AtAKUTACtCRE.
The Pa esident of the United States, on the day of his inau
guration, appear id dressed in a cwftete•fuit oj Homespun ClGaths ;
but the Cloth was of so fine a fau.iic, and so handsomely f;-
nished, thai i' Jjas univc rjally nijlakekfor a foreign maaufudurtdfu.-
perjine-Cloth. This fact,the 'Editor fetes, uillTipohgizjC' fp) his not
having mentioned, in /us taji. a £, akich tnjjl.be
ccvfidefcdas not onlyfiaitning tocur Man l fact uk ers farlv.xlarft
but interefling to our Coukirvjiln t n generd/. 4 ..
His Excellency The Vi ce-Pr esmunt, appears alio in a suit ©£» .•"
American Mshufaflure—and fcvtral Members of both Houses aie
by»the Tame token of artcnt on to tie mmuFaCttiring
iatereftof their country.
From this.bright Era, fee Colunwia rift' * '
Her Empire prop'd b, him who > ireh'd the Skies !
Fre dom and hdependence—AßTS, aid Peace,
Shall crown the Scene till fine and Nature ceife.
By accounts from Boston it appears, that the Trad'fke* and Ma
nufaclurers of that metropolis, a. - following the patno.ic example of
Ltic: r b. thrcn of Bultimoie, Philadelphia, and Ncw-Yojk, in oflb
ciating t\?r the promoting of the of the UnioH : They
all are turniftg tneir attention to the Giand Council of the Nrsticn, as
tiie only adequate fourceof relief—thepropof their h pr, and from
vvhofc power alone, such great NATION ALOIiJECTS can receive
competent encouragement, lupport and protection.
Tne Duck Manufacture in Boston, is patroniz-d by gentlemen of _ ■
the firlfc character and fortune in that p'aCe; «nd there is the greatest
lrob:;t)ii'ty, that the ra vi ration of thai State, will in a !. j w years, be -
rafted to every quarter of the globe, by canvas from the American
Booms.
The Manufacturing House CorDitckin Boston, is pleafahtly ri;ua
:ed at the South Weft part of the town.
The building is 180 feet lone; —two stories high—the upr>er part
is improved by the spinners of the chains, or warp of the Duck—
lxtetn young women, and as many gnl* 5 under the directiou of a
steady mairon, are here employed.
In the lower part there are twenty-eight Looms, which can turn
aut two pieces of Duck: of 40 yards each, pr. we<-k.
This Manufa&ure is a very great public benefit, as it employs a
great number of the poor.
Yesterday the Company fit The PRisident's house, was ex
tremely numerous and refpettablc.
The late intimation, that a GREAT PERSONAGE, will riot
expe£t tilits on Sundays, has received the appteufe of all orders of
citizens: The f, rious part of the community feel highly gratified
in this mark of refpe& to what they con ider a DiV 1 N'h IN
JUNCTION —while those, who do not re:i.£ upon the fubjeft
lb solemn a point of view, yet, as good m mbc isof society, th.-y
rejoice in thrctrcumftance as fanttioninj a wife and political mllU
tution.—Happv talent ! of adopting such regulations, as meet the
Ipprobation ot all ciafl< s, and give ollen:e to none.
The-public addreffts pref:nted to "THE PRESIDENT of the
United States, wear a different complexion from o?i
simitar occzfions, heretofore offered to diftinrovih characters : It
has been remarked, that these addrdlt* are replete with the im
preilivt sentiments of the heart, a.id produce corresponding fenfa
t ois in the minds ot every reader.
A National ft ir it d:ftinguifhes and adorns the prcfent age—lt is
difcoveitd ir. , rivate circ. ■>. in village in towns, and cities—lt
11-.ines in the ads and doings of the associated bodies ot mecha
n:cs, farmers, and me i hants, by their emulation, industry, and
rnterprize, by their improvements in arts, agriculture, manufact
ures and patriotic contributions ahd exertions, to pmnv.te plans of
ffc&lic Utility ; but the full force and * ! ory of this SPIRIT bla7es
with meridian lustre in the great national council, wnrre, even lo
cal interns are advocated only upon NATIONAL PRINCI
PLES, and as they may ultimately advance the happiness and prof
pcntyof the Union.
The la ft Post brought us the full number of the COURIER DE
BOSTON, a paper, publilhed at Boston, in the French language,
By M. J. P. D£ Nancrede.
The utility of such a properly conduced and fbpported,
Will be very generally allowed : Theacquifition of the French Lan
guage, is now become an object of importance, and to have the
news, politics, occurrences* See. detailed inthat language, will prove
a medium of acquiring the French tongue, wth the happiest facility.
LHKATUM.
In The President's Speech to both Houfcs of Cor.grefs, publifhtd
In our lasl —lafl col. 3d pige,for " concluded," read included.
PRICES CURRENT.
BOSTON.
New-York Currency.
Wine, Madeira, - - l7 f- a *8/8.
Lisbon, - - 9./4*
Port. - - 9/4>
— Faval, - - - 4/
Rum, Jamaica, - - 4f.
Windward Ifbnd, - 3/«.
Salt, firft Quality, - - 2/8. Bufhela
— — Lisbon, - IJO. Ditto.
Tobacco, James-River, - - per C.
Maryland, -
Sugar, in Grain, - - 72^
Lump, - - - 11^10.
Loaf, - - - ifi.
Brandy, - - 3 a 4-
Biflcct—Ship Bread, - - 26/8 a 3°/.C.
Plank, - 53/4 a *°f'
Butter, - - - Bd.
Coffee, - - 1 _/p.
Cotton, - - 1 ft.
Cocoa, - \o6fß C.
Candles, Tallow, - - Bd.
Spermaceti, - - 3/4-
Flour, Fine, - - 45/4-
2d Quality, - - 37y 4°-
Flaxfeed, - - 6jo Bulhel.
Codfifti, Salted, - - 18f 8. C.
MolafTcs, - - if 7 Gallon.
EXCHANGE
Upon London, Bills 5 per Cent, advance.
ARRIVALS.
At the Port of Neio- York.
Saturday, Brig Hembcre:, Cadiz, 102 days.
Schooner Pilgrim, Robins, Baltimore, 8 days- t
Edward j Smith, Shelburne, 8 days.
Sally, Mann, Edenton, 7 days.
Schooner Esther, Swift, do. 7 days.
Sunday, Schooner Sincerity, White, Baltimore, 8 days.;
Lively, Major, Shelburne # 13 days.
Sloop Brother , Walton, Digby, 13 days.
Monday, Ruth, Smith, St. Croix, 20 days.
Tuesday, Brig Columbia, Brown, St. 18 days.
In future f this Paper will be printed and pub'fhed at No. 9, Mai
dai'Lant) near the Ofixego Market.THE TABLET.
NUMBhR VII.
" One great cause of error, is our taking for granted
that habits are right because they have b:en long ef
tablijhed."
NOTHING exhibits the infi:-tnst\es of human
nature in a more striking) anil at the fame time,
in a more melancholy view, than that one half of
lifeis spent in lamenting the misfortunes, and cor
recting the miltakes of the other. The truth of
tills oblervation, derives a Hill greater force, when
applied to communities. From whatever cause it
happens, it is an evident fait, that legillators in
molt countries and ages, have been so perplexed by
the operation of palt laws,that they either forget,
or have not leisure to make regulations, that lhall
have a better influence in future. By this means,
they are often compelled, to act, like a man em
barrafled with debt : He looks only for immedi
ate lelief, and lays the foundation of far greater
trouble, than that from which he has been e
scaping. It may be well to enquire how tlii3 hap
pens ? The solution of the queltion is not difficult,
it ha* been themisfortune of molt legislators, that
they have framed their measures more according
to their own caprices and abl trait notions of go
vernment, than according to the real circumllsan
ces of the people, who are to obey those laws.
National prejudice isapt to be miltakch for nation*
alinterell. It is commonly fnppofed that laws
and regulations that are illy adapted to the opini
ons, the prejudices and the cultoms of a people,
cxpofe their authors to contempt; and encreafe
rather thart' remove the disorders, for which they
are calculated* The rule of government it is laid,
should never counteract the general opinion of
the nation. Tliefe maxims, though generally
true, should be practised upon with some precauti
on, and adopted under some reftriitions. The
secret plots of a cabal and the noisy clamours of a
faction, are different things from the voice r ' a
whole people. These should not be comprehend
ed in the idea of popular sentiment. The gener
al opinion of the community may often be proper,
at the time it is eltab'lifhed ; but a change of cir
cumstances happens more easily thati a removal of
prejudices. This cause conlluutes one of the molt
arduous tasks of legislation.
As there lhould be a resemblance between na
tional character and national laws, it is apt to be
inferred that in loose diforclerly times, the laws
mult wear a similar complexion. But the princi
ple should not be carried too far. It only incul
cates the impropriety of too fuddently attempting
a public' reformation f.om disorders. The work
mult be progressive and conciliating ; not sudden
and overbearing. Laws of too severe an aspect
will irritate rather than reform. If these remarks
are just and they really appear to ine so, it is re
quilite that the prevailing spirit and manners of a
country should be examined before it can be pro
npunced with certainty, what will be the moltfa
lutary and fuccefsful methods of governing it.
When this knowledge is ascertained, it ffiould be
applied not only with prudence, but with honesty.
It may be raflinefs for men to oppose with violence
the current opinions of the day ; but certainly ii
they believe them erroneous, it is dishonest not to
attempt by suitable means to correct such errors.
It is an unfortunate fact, that men in public of
fice are too apt to find their account in cherishing
popular caprice. There lies a suspicion against
the underltanding or integrity of that adminiltra
tion which cannot carry into effect such measures
as the public welfare requires, without fomenting
a temper ofdifaffectioA, or instigating acts of dif
obedience. " A free and jealous people should
be treated like a coy, capricious girl. If she $oes
not at firlt consent.her humor mnlt be watched ; and
if she is courted with a delicate kind of treatment,
her obltinacy will in time subside."
In my next, the subject shall be illuflrated, by
remarks that are more obvious and definite.
From the FEDERAL GAZETTE.
IN the dillribution of offices in republican go
vernments the followingci rcumftances should be
attended to.
I. Qualification for the office, In knowledge,
integrity and industry.
3. An irreproachable private character.
3. Former fervicesto the fists or country.
4. Family connection. A wife and children are
the belt securities a man can give for his good be
haviour. If a man will not trult a woman with
his happiness, a State should not trust that man
with its liberty or property. Besides a single mrm
by a very little labor may always maintain himfclf.
y. Regard should be had to a man's conduct in
his former line of bitflnefs ; a lazy, careless or dis
honest lawyer, doctor, merchant or mechanic,
Will certainly make a bad public officer.
6. A proper degree of respect should be paid to
a man who has been unfortunate impru
dence) in business. Bankruptcy m America, and
Europe are' different things. Paper money, tender
laws, and funding systems have ruined some of
the belt men in our country ; and had these evils
continued much longer, they would not have left
a man tt> rule over us, or to execute an office, who
had not been the fubjedc of the bankrupt law, or
of the atft o r insolvency,
7. In the tlifttibution of offices, rulers Should
look out for the nioft suitable men to fill them :
Mcdeft men will not apply for them, and impru
dent men do notdeferve them. Perhaps an order
from the President of the United States thijt the
personal applicant for an office should never have
one, might prevent much trouble, idleness and
scurrility. It would moreover favethe feelings of
the fupreine magistrate of the Union, who cannot
serve every body, and therefore must often give
offence. TIMQLEON.
NATIONAL.
From the PENNSYLVANIA PACK ET.
IT appears by the publications of this day, that
the firit objedt that has engaged the attention of
the Representatives in Congress, is the revenue
lyftem, and the collection of duties by impost.
The arrangement of the financial affairs of the
Union involves interest of so conspicuous a charac
ter, that it naturally claims the pre-eminence ;
for on the SucceSsful ifliie of this business depends
the cftablifliment of public credit, and all the train
of benefits, of a public and private nature, that al
ways accompany it.
The intention of this paper is to point out the
similarity of situation in which we are placed, to
that of the British in the reign of William.
The re-coinage of the fnver had occasioned a
great Scarcity of specie—the opposition made by
those who were averse to the revolution generated
political feuds, which were attended with a gene
ral want of confidence in the government ; the
public securities, that had been emitted to those
who had lent money, rendered feivices or furmrti
ed Supplies, had depreciated, insomuch that the
tallies, exchequer bills, &c. had fallen from 40 to
60 per cent, diScount, and all loans to government
were procured 011 exorbitant premiums. In this
alarming crisis, the eloquence and abilites of Mr.
Montague (than Chancellor of the Exchequer) Sav
ed the nation.
lie had acomputation made of the exadt amount
of all the obligations due by government, for
which he procured Specific funds, to be appropri
ated by Parliament for the payment of.the annual
interelt; the surplus, if any, to be formed into a
fund for the extinction of the capital. This grant,
" to Supply deficiencies, and raiSe the public cre
dit," was unanimoujly entered into,by the Commons.
See 8 and 9 William 111. chapt. 20, Section the firft,
which was the principal foundation of the public
credit of Great Britain, and which is worthy the
molt Serious consideration of every member of the
House of Representatives.
See Parliamentary Debates, vol. 3, page 70.
The Tendency of Such was to restore
public credit, and eflablifh it on the molt permanent
and reSpedable footing : Since that period, it ne
ver has begn violated by Great Britain in a single
instance. Indeed, the benefits that were derived
from its Support were the foundation of all her
greatness ; it occasioned immenSe Sums ot money
to flow into that favored country, from all quarters,
which by its continual encreafe and abundance So
lefl'ened its value, that the ministry were enabled
to reduce the interest of the public debts (with
the consent of the creditors) from 6 to y per cent,
in the year 171 7 ; from sto 4 per cent, in the year
1 727 ; from 4 to 3 per cent, in the year 1 750 to
1757 ; by which reductions an annual Saving was
made of £. 1,266,971 sterling.
But belides this advantage, the plenty of money
animated and supported every branch of indultry,
and rendered the taxes a very easy burthen for
the people to bear ; the funded debt, from the fa
cility of its transfer, became a representative of
all alienable property, and thereby aided and en
creaSed the circulating medium. \
From the day that Such a System is adopted and
purSued, we may date the commencement of the
rifmg Splendor of this country.. Every palliative
or plan that may fallfhort of this System, will only
tend to the poltponement of this glorious period.
AGRIC O L A.
HUMANITY.
ExtraCl from the proceedings of the association of Bap
tist Churches, met at Portsmouth-common, in Eng
land, May ij, 1788.
1" AGREED, as an association, thus publicly to
express our deepest abhorrence of the Slave Trade,
and to recommend itearneftly to tlieminifters and
members of our churches, to unite in promoting to
the utmost of their power every Scheme, that is or
may be propoSed, to procure the Abolition oS a
traffic So unjust, inhuman, and disgraceful ; and
the continuance of which tends to counteract and
destroy the operations of the benevolent principles
-md Spirit of our common chriftianity.
" Agreed, that the above Refolutionbe transmit
ted to Granville Sharp, ESq. Chairman of the Com
mittee formed in London for the abolition of the
Slave Trade, together with Five-Guineas asafmall
donation Srom our little fund, for the purposes of
the Said committee, and as a public expression of
our hearty approbation of the generous cause in
which they are engaged."
P L A - N
OF THE
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
A NATIONAL PAPER.
To be publfhed at the seat of the federal
lomprife, as fully as pofjible \ the following ObjeCis, viz. ' '
I. "PEARLY and authenttck Accounts of the PROCEEDING
JL ot LAWS, ACTS, and RESOLUTION
communicated so as to form an HISTORY ojthe TRANSACTION
oj the FEDERAL LEGISLATURE, under the NEW CONSTITUTION
11. Impartial SKETCHts of the Debates of Cojicitiss
111. ESSAYS upon the great fubjedls of Government inenxnl
and the Federal L'egiflature in particular; also upon the
local Rights of the American citizens, as foupdt d upon tht \
deral or State Constitutions; also upon every other
may appear suitable for newspaper difcuQion.
IV. A SE RlteS of PARAGRAPHS, calculated to catchd,
11 li vlnc m ann ers as they rise," and to point the publlcj;
attention to Obiefts that have an important reference to imbi
facial, and publici happiness.
V. The Interests of the United States as connefled with their 'u
terary institutions—rcligioils and moral ObjeQs—l mpravcmcnti in
Science; Arts, EDUCATION and HUMANITY—their f, r:: -
Treaties-, Alliances, Connefiions, See.
VI. Every species of INTELLIGENCE, which may ajefife
.ommercia!; agricultural, manufacturing, or political INTERESTS"
he AMERICAN REPUBLICK.
VII. A CHAIN of DOMF.STICKOCCURRENCES, coMa!
through the Medium of an extensive Correspondence withthtrf
peflive States.
VIII. A SERIES of FOREIGN ARTICLES of INTELU
iGENCE, so connected, as to Jorm a general Idea rj putluk Mam
the eaflern Hemfpherc.
IX. The STATE of the NATIONAL FUNDS; also of tin IN
DIVIDUAL GOVERNMENTS—Courses of Exchange—p®
Curreiu, &c. /
CONDITIONS.
I.
THE Gazette of the L'nited States shall it prittci van,
ame Letter; and on the fame Paper as this publication.
11.
Itfhall be published fiery WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY,
deln cred, as may be dircttcd) to every Subscriber in the city, on thpfc m.
111.
The price to Subscribers (exclufiveofpoftage) will be THREE DOL
LARS tor. annum.
IV.
TheJirJlfemi-annual payment to tl made in three months/r<wiihf
pearance of theJirJl number.
\
SUBSCRIPTIONS
WW be received in all the capital towns upon the Continent; effort*
City-Coffee-Houfe, and at No. 86, William-Street, until tin)
oj May,from which time at No. 9, Maiden-Lane, near the Ofwcjw
Market, New-York.
N. B. By a new Arrangement made in the Stages, Subscribers at a
distance will be duly furniftied with papers.
i'Ostscr 1 pt. A large impre(Jion of every number trill befnirt f/-
so that Subscribers may always be accommodated with comfkteSds-
To the P U B L I C K.
AT this important Crisis, the ideas that fill the
mind, are pregnant with Events of the greatd
magnitude—to llrengthen and complete the UM'
ON of the States—to extend and protest their
COMMERCE, under yet to be form
ed—to explore and arrange the NATIONS
FUND S—to restore and establish the PUBLICS
CREDIT—and ALL under the auspices ofanuii
tried Syftein of Government, will require the EN
ERGIES of the Patriots and Sages of ourCouiiny-
Hcnce the propriety of crtcreaftng theMerlitivisofKiW
ledge and Information.
AMERICA, from this period, begins i new En
in her national existence—"the world is au
before her' ' —The wisdom and folly—the mife';
ajid profpei ity of the EMPIRES, STATES, »
KINGDOMS, which have had their dayupont- :
great Theatre of Time, and are naw no morr,
fiiggeft the moil important Mementos —These,*® 1
the rapid series of Events, in which our ownCo®-
try has been so deeply interested, have taught
enlightened Citizens of the United States, tfc
FREEDOM and GOVERNMENT— LIBERTY®
LAWS, are inseparable.
This Conviction has led to the adoption of ttf
New Conftitittion ; for however various the Sec
tiinents, refpetfting the MERITS of this Svftem,
good men are agreed in the necessity that exilCi
ofan EFFICIENT FEDERAL GOVERNMENT-
A paper, therefore, eftablilhed upon NATION'
AL, INDEPENDENT, and IMPARTIAL PRISf 1 '
PLES—which shall take up the premised Arti c j ei '
upon a competent plan, it is presumed, will <
highly interesting, and meet with publick app ro
bation and patronage. , ,
The Editor of this Publication is determine
leave no avenue of Information unexplored 1
solicits the aflillance of Persons ofleifureand ab '
ties—which, united with his own assiduity, he 3 -
ters liimfelf will render the Gazette of the UM*
States not unworthy general
and is, with due refped:, the publick's humble
vant, 1 JOHN FEN NO.
Ntw-York, 178q. | '
TWO YOUNG SPRIGHTLY LADS -
A RE wanted, as APPRENTICES to the Buimc
of Printing. I
Publiihed by JOHN FENNO, No. 86, Wiii- I '' .
Street, New-York.