No. XIII-
CitrWe are happy to lay before our readers the sentiments
ned in the following No. of the TABLET, on the bulinefs
""smuggling, or defrauding Government of the Revenue—and
''otibt not their meeting the approbation of every friend to the
I'nited States.]
the TABLE T. No. XIII.
« Thtre is no kind of di/bonefty into which good people
'< more eaflly and frequently full, thai.\ thai of de
« landing government of its revenues by J'mug
u'liug, or encouraging smugglers by buying their
** goodi"
When a nation is beginning its political cx
iitence, it has the lame occalion to form
rood habits, as an individual when he is entering
Wo life. It is not only requilite, that suitable
i ws Ihould be enaifted, and enforced v. .th penal
ties; but it will have an admirable effect, if the
people v ill enter into aiibciations and take mea
res among themfelves,for co-operating with the
views of government. By manifesting their zeal
and patnotifm in this way, they may produce a
moral tontrottl over the actions of men, and lead
[hern into a difpontion to obfeive le ; ;al in! ; .cu
tions. * The iuetficacy of aflbciatians will be ur
led as an gument agaiidi '• uian experiment.
But one should not decide toohaftily in this mat
•er. If the execution of ti:c l.nvj re Iked w h tly
on that footing, their operation would be feeble
indeed ; lb on the other hand, where obedience
is expected only by the rigor of penalties, the law
will be evaded, and its objecft defeated. It is of
impoitance that government ihould engage dif
ferent paflions of the human mind,in its service.
tear of pimifhment is one v cry pov, cvful i elh aint
from disobedience. But it will not do alone.—
Men, who pretend that an appeal to the fears of
people is the belt, or the only method of making
them virtuous citizens, mult el; her be igno. anc
of human mature, or take . plcafure in degrading
it. In a free government, and more especially
in its firft organization, no individual will have
real'on to fear the laws, unless the bull: of the
neopie love and regard them. Wlkll a man ca:;
violate a law without any compunction of con
fidence, or injury to his cnaraoter, there is noth
ing more certain, than that lie can elude punifit
ment. If he faveshis character, he prefer'ves his
friends, and does not counteract the wiflies of the
community. There are so many, who are tacitly
his accomplices, that it is difficult to find unbiafs
edteftimony, for fnpporting a pi ofecution.
It will be alledged, that men, who have princi
ple enough to aflociate in favour of collecting the
revenue 1 , will be lioneft enough to oppose smug
gling, without any such allociation. There is
I'ome fallacy, 1 think, in such a fuggellion. Many
people annex the idea of infamy to the dilcoverer
of a fraud, committed 011 the public revenue.
This will prevent many perfous,w ho are difj -.eel
to pay the duties punctually, from complaining
of others, whom they know to be diflionelt in this
reipect. It is evident, that if a n umber of worthy
persons entered into an agreement to discounten
ance (inuggling, the objection of infamy againit
informing, would be removed. If no other rea
son could be aUigned for afibciating again ft smug
glers ; this would be a striking on*, that such a
measure would check confederacies in favour of
Smuggling. The ' principal complaint against
voluntary combinations is, that their force and
;>bfervauce are of short duration. Itis unqueftion
ably true, that they have a temporary effec't, in
favor of the object intended. In the present in
stance ftothing more is required. If the laws can
have a favorable introduction, they will derive
iome energy from that very circumltance. The
power ofhabit is universally felt and acknowledg
ed. It has even a stronger influence,in producing
obedience to the laws, than a fear of puniibment,
where the penalties are tigorous, and exactly in
flicted. Both thefecaufes united give a peculiar
efficacy to government. They will, by their 11a
tural progrels, create that additional tie, that is
mipofed by a sense of duty, and a r to cha
racter. 3 h
Why have mankind. in general discovered a
. onger inclination to defraud the public, than
mdividuals > lc"is probably owing in some degree,
to their being able to do it, with less sting of
j ietice and less loss of reputation. But why
onotthe character and the confcienceof a man
' e< juir e him to be honest to the public, as wellds
0 individuals ?It is,no doubt,becaufe people have
tot ieen accullomed to feel so ftrongan obligation
w.the one cafe, as the other. 'But why do we
P'auically make this diftinc r tion, when there
no . lnL i infic difference ? The most obvious rea
lifel' lat Blen ' n t * le cr ' 11110,1 intercourse of
- e fi ( ' 't greater inconvenience,in countenanc
g tilhonefty ir. pi ivate, than in public tranfac •
From SATURDAY, May 25, to \V EDNES DA Y, May 27, 1789.
tions. This circumftanc® induces a common con-
Tent, in favor of the practice of private justice ;
and fixes a stigma upon the violators of it. It
seems then that common consent, or to give ir
another name, public opinion is.one powel'iul tie,
that holds men to their private duty. The fame
< aufe, did it equally exist in public affairs, would
operate nolefs powerfully, kautft liaveanexill
enee, before it can have an application or an effetft.
Has the public opinion, in times past, been in
favor of rendering to government,what was due
to it? In many inftancesthe reverse has been the
cafe, and people have, without any feelings of
lhame orremorfe, evaded public obligations, l!
goverment has been generally defrauded, the
fa(t itfelf proves, that the common consent ol
mankind was not witheld from it : For had the
public mind been opposed to the fraud, it could
not well have happened, or at any rate,would have
been detected and punished. It requires a con
liderable degree of force to counteract the current
ol'popular fciuiment. Few violators or the rules
of pi ivate honor and justice elcape reproach, it
L hey dopiinidinient.
There is no natural propensity in merchants
0 defraud the publi - of its revenues, anymore
than there is to deceive their cullomers, in the
weight and measure ol' goods. The reason, as
was before suggested, why they are lionelt in one
;al'e and not in the other, is that their reputation,
.hei;* interest and their conscience do not equally
require it, in both cases. One feels a confidence
:hat his 1> inker, though he is not strictly watched,
will render anesact account of the caih committed
to his care. Government woyld have the fame
lecurity, that justice would take pluce in public
a Hairs , if the habits and feelings of the people
were equally favorable to public hoilelty. The
trader durst not impose on his cuftome;-s, if he
wiihed to do so, because he knows he will sustain
1 greater inconvenience, in the loss of custom,
than he gains benefit, by a particular deception.
I once more repeat, that if it would equally hurt
his character to cheat or injure the public, he
would be equally restrained from doing it.
As the influence o* public opinion is known to
be so forcible ; and Cts- the honor and prosperity
of our country require, that the laws and regula
tions fiiould have a good beginning, it is worth
while to bestow some pains,in predifpoling the peo
ple to give their aid and countenance, in carrying
into effect the measures of government. Many
persons pretend that luch a determination alrea
dy exilts. It feeii'S not to be queitioned, even by
any refractory individual, but that a revenue mult
be raised, aijd that it must proceed from imposts
and excises. The current of opinion, it will be
said, is now fufficiently in favor of such a fyltem.
But let us not be deceived. Those, who set their
hearts at reft, in thisftage of the business, are in
a delusion. The public discernment has suggest
ed the eligibility of an impost ; but still the pub
lic temper is not I'ufKciently roused into indigna
tion againll smugglers, and other defrauders.—
Men may be led by reflection to judge with pro
priety of a measure, before they feel a disposition
to exert theinfelves, in favor of its execution. In
some cafes,a change ofprinciplesprecedes acliange
of manners ; and men think of a Aibjedt a great
while, before they art upon it, at all. The firft
difficulty is surmounted. We are in a right way
of thinking ; andit only remains, that we take an
lioneft, spirited way of acting. Let its not only
give the laws a kind reception, but fuffer them,
and even aid them to proceed,with vigor and fuc
cefe.
When the system is ripened into a proper state of
maturity, the temptation to defraud the public
treafuiywill become weaker and weaker. Our
opposition to the collection of impost under the
british government,was occasioned in part, by cir
cumftances resulting from the cafe, and which no
longer have an existence. Men do not transgress
till they are often tempted ; and they will not be
tempted to do wrong, when the balance of mo
tives is in favor of doing l ight. It fliould be a
leading object of legislative care to destroy, 01
rather counteract the temptation to fraud, by en
creasing the causes, that induce men to think, an
honest conduct is the most eligible. In proportion,
as men have been habituated to any vicious prac
tice ; or, as they will derive advantageby indulg
ing the vice,fhould the restraints be multiplied to
prevent it. Before this can well be effected, ii
ihouldbc known,what reasons 01 iginally operated,
in ellabliihing the habit; and whether the fame
causes still continue. For it must be observed,
that we do not always relinquish a practice, pre
cisely when the circumftanc j, that led to it,is re
moved. Our having been accustomed to it, be
comes of itfelf a reason for its continuance. If we
apply these reasonings to our present situation,
wiili reipecc to the collection of the revenue, it
will lead us into the following enquiry. AVliat
causes formerly induced us to connive at frauds
on the public revenue ? Are these causes now in
operation ?—We (hail find they are not wholly
taken away. The itnpoutions were then uncoil
ftitutional. That objection to the payment of the
duties now ceases. But there are established cau
ses, that render the collection of public monies, in
ail situations, a little precarious and difficalt. The
origin of the evil is not to be traced to any natur
al desire in men to cheat the government, merely
for the fake of cheating it. It refultsYrom temp
tations,that are suggested by the practicability and
fafety of the thing. Our desire to gain advanta
ges over the public treasury is not counteracted,
by so many causes, as relt rain us from o vereaching
private p_-rfons. The inclination of people '»>
promote their own interest is the fame,in both ca
ses. From this view of the subjeCt, I hope the re
in arks, that have been offered in support ofaflo
ciations, in the present crifisof affairs, will not be
deemed unintetefting or foreign from the point.
I persuade mylelf also, that a few observations,
that will convey fouiehints to the Legislature ref
peCiing their proceedings, will not have too great
an appearance of presumption.
The penalties, annexed to revenue laws, {hould
be offuch a nature, as will fixadifg. ace upon the
characters, on whom they are inflicted. There is
an aptitude in certain punishments to restrain cer
tain ciimes. Great rigor does not produce the
effect, that is proposed. This is apt to mitigate
the abhorrence against the offence, and foften it
down into pity towards the offender. The human
mind is so conll tuted, that different affeCtions
counteract each other. There is an habitual tem
per of revenge,in laany minds,againft government
for its This can only be controuled byex
citing, in an higher degree, a detestation agtiinlt
crimes. Exceflive fines,long iniprifbnments,&:levere
corporeal punishments, indicate a very depraved
state of society. The laws fnould appeal to the
feelings of men, in such a manner aj> to induce
a sense of lhame, for the coiifequences of the
punishment, no lefsthan a lively fear of endi.ring
the it. This end'may partly be pro
moted by stigmatizing offbudei*, in the stile of
the laws, by .epithets that imply odium and in
famy. Men involuntarily aflociate their ideas ;
and words, that have usually conveyed an op
probious meaning, will continue to make similar
imprellions. I do not entertain a doubt, that
great utility may be derived, from couching the
laws against smuggling, in a contemptuous lan
guage.
The defrauders of the public should likewise
be debarred,from holdingany ofHce, or perform
ingany fervice,that; implied confidence or refpeCl.
Such an exclusion would stamp ideas of indignity
on the public lAind, against tliofe who evade the
payment of duties. If they were prohibited from
serving on jury ; or if their oaths w ere rendered
invalid, it would have great effeCt in restraining
the pra(ftice of smuggling. The receivers of
smuggled goods should have a /hare, in the dis
grace and puniihment. Indeed the whole regu
lations, that relate to the collection of the reve
nue, should carry the marks of legislative disap
probation of every species of collusion. The
contempt of government, exprefled in a pointed
manner, will be more efficacious than its resent
ment.
It would much contribute to excite general de
rision against public dishonesty, if the law should
direCl a Register to be published annually, con
taining the names of all, who had been deteCted
in smuggling, or that any way advised or aided,
in defrauding the revenue. The minds of men are
differently wrought upon; and by diverfifying the
punishment and frowns of government, the feel
ings of molt people will be iuterefted in observing
che laws.
In my next number, the subjeCt fhallbe refum
edai.d placed in another point of view.
EXTRACT FROM " AMERICAN ESSAYS."
On the SUBJECT of COMMERCE.
THE whale and cod fifheries have been long in a
declining state ; they are our natural, principal,
and best liurferies for seamen, and the most cer
tain source and support of our naval strength;
an objeCt of the last importance to all commer
cial countries, and in which the United States are
all equally interefled.
That we could afford to undersell the French
and English at every market, fuppofmg a trade for
our cod-fijh equally fafe and free, cannot be con
troverted. The English consume very little of
their Newfoundland fifh, almost all being carried
from America direCllv jo oilier markets in Eu
rope ; and if, as is generally supposed, there is
110 friendfhip in trade among individuals of the
TRICE SIX PENCE.fame nation, much lcfs can it Le expetfted among
different nations, neceflarily of oppolite interelts,
and naturally jealous of each other's prosperity
and growing greatness ; it is, therefore, clearly
for the interelt of France and England, for poli
tical as well as commercial purpol'es, secretly {o
foment andnourilh, if pollible, an eternal enmity
between the United States of America and the
Barbary Powers, and to /hut us out from all di
rect intercourse and communication with the iin
menfe trade of the Mediterranean ; that they may
check our growth, and continue the carriers of
our fifli, tobacco, wheat, naval Itores, and other
American produce ; these probable difficulties,
or intrigues, will require all our art, addrels and
management effeiftuaJly to counteract. The trade
of the Mediterranean, and of thole countries
bordering thereon, is of vail importance to the
United States, perhaps not inferior to any
object that now prelents; Italy is a vail and fer
tile field for commercial /peculations, luppoled
to con lain at leall twenty millions of inhabitants ;
the French and Eiigliih know by long experience
the lweets of that trade ; and it is probable they
are not ignorant of our abilities to rival them,
and every other nation, not only by carrying our
productions cheaper to every market, but as car
. iers for other nations, if our vetlels could navi
gate with equal l'afety; audit is well known that
one immediate etfect would be the total ruin ol
their Newfoundland filheries and lettlements.
Every man in the leall acquainted with trade,
and of its importance to America, cannot but be
convinced of the innumerable aihantages arili*g
from a permanent uninterrupted neace with ail
the powers on tliofe inhospitable barbary lhores ;
and as some of the molt powerful Princes in Eu
rope do now condelcend, through policy, to pay
an annual tribute to tliofe. nations, it can be
thought 110 disgrace or degrade ion in the United
States of America, in their present infant Hate,
to Hoop to buy their friend/hip, which, though
it jliould colt us dear, yet commercially conii
dered, it can hardly be purchaled too dear ; nor
can this important buhnefs be negociated too
soon, or too secretly. And whde this momentous
object occupies the mind, it is impolfible not to
feel for thediftrefled situation of some of our fel
low citizens now in llavery in Algiers ; their l'uf
ferings, supplications, and past services are loud,
and will, 1 hope, prove irrefiflible calls on the
jullice and humanity of their country.
With innumerable advantages peculiar to our
country, and which may be laid in forne respeCts
to hold all other nations dependent, it is hoped that
our trade will soon be relieved, and that we may
e'er long make a more important and respectable
figure in the commercial world. It is unneces
sary at this time to note all the present produc
tions of the United States, with thofc which
.might be transplanted with ease and advantage,
and made capital articles of export; fufliee it
therefore only to enumerate some of the prin
cipal articles now in our polleiiion for use and
exportation—.Whale-fins and oil, fpermacetl oil
and candles, cod-filh and liver oil, lintfeed and
lintfeed oil, pickled salmon, Iliad, mackrell, her
rings, and other pickled filh, pot and pearl allies,
beef, pork, butter, cheese, tlax, hemp, malts,
timber, and all other kinds of wood or lumber,
with the ulvioft exclusive potfefiion of that invaluable
tree called the live oak, which seems to have
been ordained by Heaven for the sole use of the
American navy, as almolt every attempt to tranf
jplant it to foreign countries Las proved unl'uc
celsful. Tar, pitch, turpentine, rolin, bees and
myrtle wax, tallow, lilk, cotton, Iheeps wool,
hides, Ikins, furrs, grain and pulse of all kinds,
hops, iron, falrpetre, fafiafras, farfaparilla, gin
fang, snake-root, pink ropt, with a great variety
of other roots, abounding in South-Carolina and
Georgia, that poflefs moll allonilhing medicinal
virtues, and which would prove a moll important
and valuable acquilitiou to the Materia JVledica ;
tobacco,, rice, and indigo ; yet with all these
advantages, in almoll all our commercial enter
prises, our present portion is in general little
more than fruitlefs toil, loss, irifult, and contempt.
Hie vivimus ambitiofa
Paupertate onuses. Juv. Sat.
As revenue is the main-spring,. without which
no power 011 earth can put the moll perfect poli
tical machine in motion; so Commerce, situated
and circunillanced as we are, mull be the princi
pal source of revenue ; but it cannot be expected
that our dejetfted commerce can inflantly revive,
or that new projects, however wifely planned,
will immediately be fufficiently productive to
answer all the demands of Government: Ihe
fruits of commerce are neceflarily progreflive,
and while we are waiting on her various opera
tions, it will be both wife and necellary to bear
Juavy b ■ -then; for a Jbort time, and to strain every
lierve, in order to furniih Government with fuf
ficient means to carry into elfecft those prudent
and salutary measures, on which the fuccel's of
our future hopes and prospects mult materially
depend.
And as a llimulus to our immediate and. ltre
nuous exertions, and punctual obedience to the
•, evenue laws, in order that full scope and power
may be given to Government to let every engine
at work; lft every citizen of the United States
consider, that abftratfted from the common bene
fits of a public revenue, which will ultimately be
produced by a well regulated and flouriihing
commerce, there are other blessings flowing there
from, which are neceflarily diffufive, and which
constantly communicate a large portion of their
happy influence and effects to every individual in
the community.—ln great cotnmercialStates, indi
viduals of every rank are continually rifingfrom
obscurity into light, and from small beginnings
frequently become rich, and riches invariably
cariy with them a proportionate degree of influ
ence, which cannot be gained by one, without
taking away, or diminilhing in some degree the
influence of others this continual rotation of
property and influence naturally produces fre
quent rotations of civil oiiicers, or rulers ; the
idle and abl'urd dreams of the divine origin) or
exclusive right of particular names, or families,
to preference, or pre-eminence, -which swayed
the superstitious sons of Greece and Rome, no
longer bias or infatuate mankind ; every man
feels his own individual consequence, and with a
laudable emulation aliens his equal natural rights
and pretcnlions ; detached from the narrow views
and servile ideas of hereditary claims to public
favors or honors; his enlarged mind is more no
bly directed to the aggrandizement of his coun
try ; and he acknowledges no just claim but
merit. Thus Commerce naturally tends to correct
the evils common inStates not commercial, where
particular opulent families often enjoy, for many
fucceflive generations, the exclusive pofleflion of
riches ; and though they do not always inherit
the virtues or abilities by which their anceftoi s
justly acquired pre-eminence, yet they continue
to poflefs exclusively, unjustly, and often by vio
lence, every post of honor, profit and power in
the State, and thereby hold every subordinate
class of their fellow-citizens, or fellow-men, in
a state of absolute dependence and servility—but
where Commerce flourishes, such a state of vassalage
cannot exist; no citizen is necellarily confined to
a particular employer; he is always free to pur
sue his own inclination and interests ; he can
give ample scope to aspiring genius ; and is sure
to reap the jull reward of his labour : Though
he may be a servant, he cannot be a slave ; and
while he obeys the of his country, he may
defy the power, or the tveaknefs of any mailer.
Where Commerce flourishes, arts, agriculture, and
manufactures wili also flourifli; the weak are
protetfted ; genius encouraged ; revenue fuffici
ent j peace preferable, because molt profitable ;
the people quiet, because constantly employed,
and well paid ; war amply equipt, and vigorously
pursued when neceflary; and Government li
berally supported. £. C ;
,(7"o be continued.)
" Saiem, May 19, 1789.
ExtraH of a Utter from t gentleman in Ccngrefs to his friend in Ms
town, May Ij.
" Much will depend on gentlemoi in the comme-cial line, for
fuppomngthe public jnrafures. You justly observe, that au im
post appears almoll the only practicable method of raising monies,
lor the exigences of government. Therefore, if the diitiej are laid'
10 low that they will fall far short of those exigences, in £afe the
whole Ihould be collcfled, how is the deficiency to be fupphed ?
The duties which have been agreed to by the Houfeof Representa
tives, acrord ng to the highest cflimaie that has been made, will
not much exceed two millions of dollars ; and the fuppli, s t/tccf
fary for the current expenses of the year and the annual interefl of
the national debt, will amount to about 2,800,000 dollars. One
great object which the States had 111 view, in inftitutiiig the new
government, wasthe advancementof juftice,and fuppow of publick
cedit : If these objefls are not attained, they will be disappointed.
Ihe duties linpoled will be paid by the consumers ; so that the
tax will not be boine by the merchants ; they will consider the
duties as pai t of the prime cost of the goods, and make their profits
011 that as well as on the pnrchafe money. Nor do I think the
burthen will be very Itnfibly felt by the people—the payment
will be gradual, as they (hall h.ive occasion to consume the goods
The temptations to smuggle will not be so great as heretofore, in
proportion to the amount of the duties : Under the Britilb gove'rn
ment, It was thought a virtue to evatfc payment in this country
uecaufe tin yweretmcopftitutionallynnpofed,by Parliament. The
duties that have been laid under the State governments were un
equal, some, States laying them higher than others, which was an
embarralTmcnt to commcrce—and the monies rail", i were only
for the benefit ot the State where they wcrccollefted—whichoperat
ed inequitably when the goods were consumed in other States •
But now the duties will be equal in all the States ; they will be
laid by the Reprefer.tatives of the people, and be applied for the
bentht ol all, to support the government which they haveeftablifh
ed, and to pay the mtereftof the debtincurred for eftablilhine their
liberties and independence. These connderations, I ti 11ft win
have fufhcicnt weight with every konefll and virtuous citizen to
induce him cheerfully to pay thuduties. Much attention has been
paid to equalize them upon the several articles, fothat the citizens
ot one State, ot. one branch of commerce, may not be burthencd
mote than another. There has been cor,fiderable debate upon
the article of Mohffes ; and it would doubtless have been rated
lower were not so great a proportion of it did,lied into rum As
it aftefls the difhlleries, it is fuppofedthat thatbranch will be nol
ourthened more than other branches, or the proportion between
imported rum and N. England rum be m+ich altered, and what
alteration is made will be in favour of N. E. rum I fupr„,f
the duty on molaffcs confnmed in lubftance should have been about
4 cents per gallon, to make it equal to fait, in propotion to tin
value of each article. But molalTes, tho' a very ufeful article is
not quite lo necelfary as lalt ; fothat if the people reduce the con
fumpt,on of.it one gallon infix, it will not colt them more than il
no duty had been laid 011 it; but if we consider the extra duty
above 4 cents, and leflen the consumption 1 gallon in 18, it will
remedy the evil and not lessen the profit of the importer, for he
will make his advance on the duty as well as on the prime cost
The duties on articles imported from the Britifii W. Indies will
be on.y Jntifh bottoms, and the importer must pay them in the
fitft liiftance, and piqbably must bear a part of them ultimately
I he importation of dutied articles will be from foreign countries'
and conic quently 111 pretty large vessels ; so that the collection may'
be mde easily fecurcd t'ian m small boats and coalling velTilf
EXTRACTS.
[A it mujl excite the attention of Farmers, and Country Trains th
being immediately interejled, and the public good conntfleit uithj!
we publish the following injormation (received ft om a gentleman /„,/
ly retimed from the EaJlindiesJ refpeßtng the falc oj butter fa]
country'.]
From Thomas's Massachusetts Spv, &c.
I. ARCE quantities of Butter, exported from this State to tl, e
Ealhndies were lold as low as 4 coppers pi. lb. owin« to the 1.1
lowing errors, and inattention in putting up that aiticle, viz __ n ,"
working out the buttermilk—putting large quantities of fait | lt '
tween the layers—salting it with coaife daik unsuitable fait— net
soaking the llrong brine before the Buttir is put in b
which rcafon tllii next to the wood is much injured, iome kt»,
made of sappy unfit timber, and butter of different complexion)
put down indiscriminately, which exceedingly injures the appear
ance.
Il is of theutmoft consequence to have our Butter and Beef f fc
periorin quality (as they loon will be m that of Ire
land, otherwise we (hall be deprived of foreign markets, or wh n
exported, mull be fold, as above, to a great lot's. If the'foliowmf
directions be attended to, they will loon establish the reputation
of our Butter, and raifc its value.
Let the Butter be made while the milk or cream remain
the buttermilk entirely worked out; a quantity of clean, white'
fine fait, fufficient to keepitperfeflly sweet, worked into it; pick.'
eel, without any fait between the layers, into kegs that will contain
lix or eight gallons, made ot White oak umber, tree from lap. trht
and full bound ; let the kegs be weil soaked strong brine, ad
then tarred, before the butler is packed ; and endeavor to fiii'ejcli
keg, as near as poflible, with butter of one complexion.
It would be Deit to have all Butter put up at the dairies, foot
after it is churned and prepared for packing; but as a coufideraW:
part is carried in lumps to the country Ihopkeepers, and soon be
comes rancid, if fullered to lay expufed to the air in their (hops
(which is too frequently the cafe)—much therefore depends oa
their attenl ion to pack it immediately, observing the above di
rections, and dcpoliting it afterwards in cool cellars.
AN OLD SIM I LIE (JCAMINLD.
I ■ 1
" THE world has been long amused with a trite and hackoied
companion between the life of man, aid (hat of States; in which
it is pretended that they both proceed in the fame irrevocable
manner ; lrom n.tancy to maturity, iiom maturity to death : A
companion, perhaps as groundlcfs as it is common. Theliumau
body contains, in its very textuie, the feeds of certain diffolmion
That is, though you set aside all tV poflible accidents arifingfrom
intemperance, Ironi the influcnceol the elements, tneclimate,and
every other external and contingent caule, the human frame ufclf,
after a certain pei lod, Would glow into rigid ity; the fluids would
decrease, the solid accumulate, the arteries c/fih, the blood (Wiiatc
and the wheels oflile Hand fti'lL
But in focictics, of whatever kind, there seems no such neceffarv
or eflential tendency to dissolution. The human body iswturtOi
mortal ; the political, only so by accident: Internal difotdersor
dileafes may arise; external violence may attack or overpower:
but ilit- 1c taules, though always to be expe&cd, arc wholly inci
dental : the firft is precifcly of the fame nature as intemperance,
the second as ;he influence oi the external elements, on the hurtua
body. But there appears nothing in the internal conftrutfion of
any Hate, that tends inevitably to dissolution, analogous to thole
causes in the human-frame, which lead to certain death.
i his observation ieems confirmed by hiflory : where you fee
States, which, after being funk in corruption and debility, have
been brought back to the vigor of their firft principles : but you
must have recourse to Fables, for medicated old age, reftoredk>
inlancy or youth."
ON THE USE OF TEA.
I EA appears, from the best experiments, to produce feds
tive effe&s upon the nerves, diminishing their energy, and the
tone of the muicular fibres, and inducing a considerable degree,
both of fenfibihty and irritability, upon the whole system. It
alio piomotes the thinner evacuations very powerfully, and dimi
nishes the flejh and bulk of those who ule it. These effects tend
to impair the strength, and promote the other consequences of it
upon the nervous system above described. Hence the use of Tea
has been found very agreeable to the studious, especially those en
gaged in the compolition ol works ot genius and imagination;
and hence it is emphatically ftiled the poet's friend. But, on the
other hand, I believe that, at least with us, it has had the effeftof
enfeebling and enervating the bodies of our people, and of intro
ducing fevcral difordtrs tliuL avile from laxity and debility ; and
has-been still of worse consequence in making way for the use of
ipirituous liquors, which are olten taken to relieve that depression
which Tea occasions.
' From these effcfls <.f Tea, I cannot but think that it* con
sequences on the whole, have been highly prejudicial. It evi
dently injures the health,and, by the consequences last mentioned,
Lends to coriuptthe morals of the people ; and, in my opinion,
by the effeit it products upon the nerves, contributes to abate
courage vigour, and iteadinefs of mind; circumstances surely
ol themlelv.s fufficient to discredit its use, with those who are
engaged in any lite that requires exertion and refolu-
LlOll. "crhap.s, however, in the hot climates of China and India,
the ule of this liquor may not be so prejudicial as in the colder
ones: It may there tend to abate the weariness occasioned by
heat, and, as a grateful dilutent, promote the thinner evacuations;
which pollibly may, by causing it to pass off quickly, counteract,
111 ome mealurc, its bad effects. But the noxious qualities of th:s
plant are not unknown even in its native countries. The Japanese
are fubjett to the diabetes, and to consumptive disorders, re
iembling the atrophy, from its use; and the Chinese,' it is said,
are lp lenfible ol thele consequences, that they rarely drink green
tea at all, which is the moll remarkable for thele ctfe&s. Per
haps the diminutive stature, and cowardly, and at the fame time
acute and tricking disposition of the Chinese, may be owing, in no
small degree, to the use of this vegetable."
COFfEE. -A SCRAP.
WHEN Coffee was firft introduced among the Arabians, a
crup e arolc among the devout (perhaps from feeling its
Ukg quality] whether it was not lorbidden by the Alchoran,undels
ai ll cle of wine. A council of Mahometan Divines was called
upon the occasion, who luckily decreed for the legality of its ule.
ON THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE FEDERAL TREASURYA
[The Ohfc > nations contained in the fclloruing [peculation relate to Jo
f°u a a as to ] u My thtlr appeal ance in our paper, althoufi
pubhjhedyejfer day in the Daily AdverUjer.]
I believe it may fafely be laid down as a maxim, that in pV
poition as oblcurity and uncertainty prevail in the adminiftraticfl
0 a government, it will be more or less corrupt, weak and defpe
tic : But this observation is more particulaily applicable to the
management of the Finances of a State. To place our reliance, io
airs c this nature, on the lunate probity of any man or body w
men, would certainly argue a want of an accurate knowledge w
e "man character. It is pride, ambition, the dread of the loss
01 reputation, and a variety of other felfilh and interested motives,
w lit 1 impel the far greater part of mankind to a due perform
ce o t icir duty. Nay, thele motives not only deter us from
' oln ® wr ® n g, but they are, in fact, the melt powerful stimuli 1°exertions of every faculty. It is the great principle
the vigoro - must chiet]y depend. It is cvident
f'Sor Safer to place a fing.e man at the head of thi,
( nd indeed, of every other department) than to place it in the
:he possibility of veiling in obfeurity the
cratlon"and true state of the trcafury, I would suggest an 0,-
°P , tloo somewhat on the following plan.
6 a !r the fuperintendantof Finance ihould have no agency what
' i„ the business of receipts and expenditures
Th a t there be a treasurer-general, in the nature fimp.y of a cafli
itr vAlofe business Ihould be confined solely to receipts and cxpen-
A That ail receipts at the treasury be regillered in the luditor's
ffi , ■ from which office also (hould issue all warrants for money.
That the auditor open diftina accountsfor receipts and expen
on the refpt&ive funds, which may have been appropriated
by Congress to diffeicnt purposes. These accounts to be polled
"'/""obvious that by a system of organization, on a plan similar
the'ibove Congress would, at all times, be poifetfed of an exact
knowledge of the real state of the trtalury
The fuperintendant of finance, and indeed, the heads of all the
mat departments, should be admitted to a feat in the house of rc-
Lfentatives, and in the senate ; and to the privilege of delivering
Lr sentiments freely on all matters in debate relative to their fe
„ .departments. A'™-J ark, May a 3.
SKETCH of PROCEEDINGS of COACH ESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESEN I'ATIVES oj the
UNITED ST A 1 ES.
Monday, May 2J, 1789.
This being the day assigned to take up the
fubjetft of Amendments —Mr. Madison observed,
that various realons induced him to pvopofe a
distant. day, when he gave notice that on the
fourth Monday of May he should move for the
House to go into a committee of the whole 011
this business—and as some of the reasons still
existed, he would propose that the
of Amendments, agreeably to the fifth article of
the Constitution, be entered upon this day fort
jiight.
Mr. Goodhue, agreeably to notice given on
Wedn.'fday last, introduced a resolution upon
the I'ubjeCt of compensation proper to be made
to the refpecftive branches of the Legislature—in
which The President,TheVice-Pkesident,
the Senate and House of Representatives, were
I'everally mentioned.
Mr. White proposed The Speaker's name
fliould be inserted.
Mr. Page proposed that the rtfolution fliould
be referred to the consideration of the committee
of the whole House.
The House accordingly voted itfelf into a com
mittee of the whole, 011 the state of the Union.
Mr. Trumbdu in the chair.
Mr. Goodhue's resolution was then read;—
the firft article, vefpec'ting the compensation to
the President, Mr. Lawrance proposed should
be compleated by filling the blank with 1 wenty-
Five Thousand Dollars. This would make the
article read thus:—Resolved, That Twenty-Five
Thousand Dollars per annum, be the compensation
allowed The President, during the time for which
he ij cletted.
Mr. Lawrance observed, that this futn was
not mentioned as the result of any accurate cal
culations, but merely for the conlideration of the
committee,
A variety of observations were made upon this
motion, which turned principally upon this
point—whether the sum to be voted 011 account
of the Prelident, ihould include the allowance
for his Houfhold, Secretaries, &c.—or whether
special provision should be made for the latter
purposes independent of the former.—No deci
sion was made upon tlie subject—when the com
mitte rose.
Mr. Clymer then moved, that a special com
mittee fliould now be appointed by the House,
to take this important bulinefs into considera
tion—which was voted in the affirmative—and a
committee appointed accordingly.
The report of the committee on the Jersey
elections, was then read, and acceded to.
Mr. Wadsworth presented the bill on ton
nage—which was read for the firft time-
Mr. F itzsimons introduced a petition from
the shipwrights of Philadelphia. Adjourned.
Tuesday, May 26.
The bill laying duties on tonnage was reail the
ictond time.
On motion of Mr. White, voted, That this
bill be referred to the committee of the whole—
and made the order of the day for to-morrow.
Mr. Scott gavenotice, that on to morrow he
inould move for leave to bring in a bill, for the
eftablilhing a land office, for the falc of lands in
the western territory.
Mr. Page after some introductory observati
ons, on the ineligibility of- electing committees
Y ballot—moved, that so much of the rule o
the House whichprefcribed that mode, should be
repealed.
Mr. White proposed, that all committees
ftould be appointed by the Speaker, except when
the House might order otherwise.
Mr. Lawrance moved, that a committee fliould
e JJPPointed to determine on a mode.
Mr. Lef. obje&edto the appointment of acom
ji iUec, as there was at that moment no special
> U I ? c^ s b e forethem, he thought the prefenttime
1 m e "- tota ke tlie sense of the House.
J Lawrance withdrew bis motion.
Mr. Smith proposed an amendment to Mr.
White's motion by adding, unlefsfive members
call for a ballot.
Mr. Page was oppofedto all balloting for com
mittees—lie thought the mode highly exception
able, as it might be rendered subservient to the
purposes of intrigue—he hoped (he said) never
to fee another committee chosen in that Houfeby
ballot.
Mr. Burke moved for a postponement of the
motion, which being put, was carried in the af
firmative.
Mr. Smith of South-Carolina, gave notice,
that on to-morrow he should move for a commit
tee to bring in a billon the fubje<ft of bankruptcy.
Mr. Sylvester of the committee, appointed
to confer with a committee of the Senate, on the
fubjecft of news-papers, and for receiving propo
sals for performing the public printing, reported,
by which it is proposed, that the Secretary of the
Senate and the Clerk of the House, should be em
powered to make the neceflary contrad:.
Adjourned.
From papers brought in the fliip Montgomery, Capt. Bunt an,
from LONDON, we have obtained the subsequent
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
Warsaw, Feb, 12. Count Stanislaus Potocki's plan for rais
ing some national cavalry was parted in the sixth fefiion. This
body will he composed of 30,000 men, each company ol 150.
It has been resolved, that the Tartars who inhabit Lithunia shall
be admitted into this corps, as they have .(though Muffelmcn) al
ways behaved like good citizens.
March 4. Letters from Moldavia and Waljachia advise, that
the Turks are allemblirtg on the frontiers in great bodies.
Vienna, Feb, 28. They write'fiom Tnefte, that thccrew of
a vessel arrived there from the Archipelago, informed them, that
a large ftiip, sent by order of the Porte to Napoli, in the Morea,
to piocure corn, had been obliged to quit the coasts of that pe
ninsula, the inhabitants of which had risen on Account of the
great want the y were in of that article themselves. Ofher c ire u al
liances seem to confirm the scarcity of corn felt in many parts of
Turkey; and the Governors of the Archipalago will meet with
the greatest difficulties in executing the orders they have received
relative to furnifhing piovifions for the Ottoman airAies in
Servia and Bosnia.
Paris, March 2. The Dutch demand of us the payment
of 10,000,000 livreslent to the Americans under our guarantee ;
but we have a much larger account against them, which is the ex
pense we were at in prote&ing their poflcflions in India.
Hague, March 17. On the 13th instant the Council of State
pronounced he final sentence against the famous Rhiriezrave of
Salm, and Col. Vanderborch, by which theiy are declared guilty
of hightreafon, and banished forever from the fevtn Provinces
and the confines of the generality, under paiu of death it tound
tin t cm, besides which they are to pay all costs.
Constantinople, A report has been circulated
thele tew days pad, that the Sublime Porte intended to restore
liberty to the Ruffian Ambassador, who languiihes in confinement
i n the seven towers.
London, March 27. The French Ambaflador hasjuft rrce ved
letters from his court, in which their Most Christian Majesties
express their warmest congratulation* upon the recovery of our
Mod (.rar ious Sovereign, and desire that his Excellency will (how
refpe£t and joy upon the ensuing occasion ; and
that the expense may be no objetlof consideration, they have or
dered it to be placed to their Majesties. On this information the
Count de Luzerne waited upon lady Harcourt, and requeued her
ladyship to acquaint their Majesties of the intention of his Court.
DOMESTIC ARTICLES.
Philadelphia, May 23. Yeftcrday Mrs. Washington
arrived here from Moun't-Vernon. This truly refpe£lable per
sonage was met by a number of the principal ladies and gentle*
men of this city (among whom were the President of the State,
and the Speaker of tne General Aflembly) a little beyond Derby.
At Gray's Ferry, fhc partook of an elegant cold collation,and from
thence was escorted to the residence of Mrs. (Robe rt) Mor r is,
in Market-ftrcet, by the troops of light-horse, commanded by
Captains Miles and Bingham. Her avrival, which was about 2
o'clock P. M. was announced by the ringing of bells, and a dis
charge of thirteen guns from the park of artillery, under the di
re&ion of Captain Fisher.
We hear that Mrs. Washington intends to favor her female
friends in this city with her company till Monday morning, when
(he will procecd to join her beloved and justly revertd consort at
the PRESIDENT of the.United States.
NEW-YORK, MAY 27, 1789,
A Correspondent observes, that the dispatch
and harmony, with which the national repre
sentatives adopted the outlines of principles, for
regulating the great executive departments, is a
favourable presage, not only of wisdom and una
nimity in that House, but also of energy and suc
cess in the general adininiftration of the govern
ment.—For it can hardly be doubted, that when
there is a Unipn of sentiment among so many en
lightened and virtuous statesmen, that the mea
fu. es adopted, will in all refpecfts be calculated
to answer the end proposed. The more we consi
der that part of the resolution, that gives the Pre
sident of the United States the sole power of re
moving officers, without the process of impeach
ment, the more reason have we to anticipate ad
vantage from its operation; for setting aside all
expectations from the talents and virtues of the
present supreme magistrate, there is in the natu
ral reason of things, a preference in favour of
that mode of removal.
Another Correspondent observes, tha. thepub
lication of the debates of Congress, has already be
gun todifFufe national ideas ; and that while it fa
miliarizes theminds of the people to the new sys
tem of government,it gradually difleminates prin
ciples of legislative wisdom andintegrity. Great
advantages will be derived from having it in the
power of the rising patriots, and legislators of
our country, to take up a system of practical le
gislation from the beginning, andobferve the re
gular gradations of a young nation growing into
opulence, contentment and power.
Married on Thursday the 14M trj. at SJirew/hiry, in Neui-Jerfey,
the Rev. Jedidiah Uotfe,ofCh*ricJlewn, in MaJfachufeUi, to Miss Brce(c.
iMPkOVEM&NTS IN AGRICULTURE.
On Saturday last, General WASHINGTON went to fee the
curious agricultural improvements and newly-invented farming
utensils at the feat of the Baron POLNITZ, in the neighbourhood
of this city. Among the former is the cultivation of madder,
woad, and feve,r2l kinds of artificial grass* Among the latter are
Winlaw's threihing machine, several ploughs conllru£led for differ
ent purposes and many other instruments of husbandry. The Ba
ron Polnitz made experiments to shew the effects of different
ploughs, some of which he held himfelf, for the lake of giving
more precision in the result. General Washington discovered great
fatisfa&ion in viewing the experiments, particularly of a machine
made by theßaron Polnitz, for ascertaining tfie exact foice which
mufl be applied to a plough, under any circumftanccs, in drawing
it through any kind of foil. The General was alio so well convin
ced of the utility of the Horse-Hoe, for weeding vegetables, &c.
that he has ordered one to be made, upon the principle of the
B iron's,forthe purpose of fending itto Moant-Vernr : ,in Virginia.
The Editor will endeavor to obtain a particular delcription of
the Hor/e-Hoe for a future paper.
The hour of the President's Levee having been altered frcm two
to three o'clock, in order to accomodate official characters, yester
day the company which attended it was uncommonly numerous
and refpe&able.
The LADY of The President ofthe Uni
ted States is expected to arrive in this city,
on Wedneiday or Thursday of this week.
This morning at 5 o'clock, The President
set off in his barge, to meet Mrs. Washington
at Elizabeth-Town Point.
A correspondent, who was present when the
House of Representatives of the United States wa3
in committee of the whole, 011 the l"ubje(ft of a
provision for The President, &c. was pleased i
to find that no ideas could have been more just in
regard to tlitf actual and future circumstances of
the public, as well as to the. prudence and dignity
of the Supreme Magiltrate, than tliofe which were
expressed by the Hon. Mr. Gerry.
The great principles of religion, honor, and
public Ipirit, are the only effectual checks to the
encroachments of arbitrary power—the only
permanent foundation for the perpetuating pub
lic freedom, and happiness : Without thel'e, go
vernment will not receive the steady and manly
support of the people; but torn by fa<stions, re
sulting from the want of honesty, and a proper
sense of the bleifings of liberty under equal laws,
a government of force is the fatal consequence.
First impreflions are generally allowed to be
the strongest.—How important then, that they
should be made and received under the influence
of right principles—-Upon all great public occasi
ons, the attention of the people Ihould be exci
ted by the displays of wisdom, judgment and
an evident concern for their best interests, for
impreflions made when the faculties are 011 the
stretch to learn, to wonder and admire, are
more general and more lasting than those receiv
ed in the common course of events.—The late au
gust fpedtacle in the inauguration of The Pre
sident, followed by an address, which comes fp
feelingly home to the boloin of every American,
have made impreflions which never can be effa
ced—and their happy effects will be realized by
ages yet unborn.
" Fad ions and feuds may overturn a State,"
" Which Un ion renders flourif«ing and gi at."
Want of principle is the common source of
faction —The reigning administration, mayat any
time, denominate the opposition to their mea
sures, a fa«£lion: but the discerning eye of the
public generally makes a just discrimination be
tween their real friends, and unprincipled de
magogues.—lt mult be acknowledged, however,
that when the body of the people become careless
of their freedom and government, and pay 110
attention to either, but as the -words may advance
one party, and depress another, the way is pre
pared for a subversion of the republic; and the
change of a free constitution for any other, in
volves the loss of freedom.
A general application toftudy—an investigati
on of the great principles of legislation—the ge
nius of our national constitution—its relations,
dependencies ; its intimate connexion with those
of the several States—a general idea of the great
commercial ijnereft of the union as a nation—and
a competent knowlege of those of the individual
governments —an acquaintance with history,
the great examples it affords—a love to the max
ims of a generous and upright policy—and
decided patriotism, to inspire a public confi
dence in his administrations—These form some
of the outlines of the character which we trust is
destined to preside over the finances of the Union.
AKtiIVALS.
PHILADELPHIA.
May 22, Ship Pr. Wm. Henry, Codd, Barcelona, 46 days,
Lrig Walker, Clodd, Cadiz, 42 days.
Schooner Tryal, Venneman, St. Thomas. 19 days.
Sloop Adventure, Holmes, Virginia, 5 days.
May 23, Sloop Pomona, Steel, St Croix, 20 days.
May 24, Brig Charlcfton, Garmen, Charleilon, 9 days.
NEW-YORK.
Saturday, Sloop Cynthia, Bowell, St. Bartholomew, 14 days.
Sloop Hawk, Parker, Turks-Island, 14 days.
Sunday, Brig Aurora, Tweed, LiverpooJ, 56 days.
Ship Montgomery, Bunyan, London, 58 days.
Monday, Ship Hollies, Columbus, Cadiz, 53 days.
Tuesday, Schooner N. Y. Packet, Barnard, Bolton, 3 days.
Sloop Rambler, Peterfon, R. IHand, 2 days.
Arrived at Boston, the snow Capt. Burroughs, from the
1 fie of France, in upwards of one hundred days pafTage.
Errata.—ln the story of Honeflus and Conftantia, for " commu
nicate" read commijjerate—and for " the unfeel rfg wound. K
read, the insulting wound.letter.
The RIGHT GOVERNMENT of a COMMON
• WEALTH EXAMINED.
{Continuedfroth our la]}.']
larchamont Nedham lays it down as a funda
mental principle, and an undeniable rule, " that
...e people, that is, Inch as ihall be fucceflivcly
" chosen to represent the people, are the belt
keepers 01 their own liberties, and that for
many reaions : firfl, because they never think
" of ufarping over other men's rights, but mind
" which way to preserve their own."
Our fir ft attention fliould be turned to the pro
polition irfelf, " The people art the belt keepers
" oi their own liberties." But who are the peo
pie ? '• Such as fiiall be fbcceUively chosen to re
" prefcnt them."_ Here is a confufion both of
words and ideas, which, though it may pals with
the generality of readers in a fugitive pamphlet,
or witlj a majority of auditors in a popular ha
rangue, ought, for that very reason, to be as
carefully avoided in politics as it is inphilofophy
or mathematics. If by the people is meant the
whole body of a great nation, it fliould never be
forgotten, that they can never atfl, consult or rea
son together, because they cannot march five
hundred miles, nor spare the'time, nor find a space
so meet; and therefore the propofitio'n, that they
are the bell keepers of their own liberties, is not
true. They are the worlt conceivable ; they arc
no keepeis at all: fh?y can neither aift, judge,
think, or will, as a body politic or corporation.-
If by the people is meant all the inhabitants of
a ftngle city, they are not in a-general afleniljjy,
at all times, the belt keepers of their own liber
ties, norperhaps at any time, ur.lefs you i'epa
rate ii oin them the executive and judicial power,
and temper their authority in legiilation with the
mature councils of tWe oue and the few. If it is
meant by the people, as our author explains him
felf, a representative a'dlmbly, " fueh as shall be
" successively chosen to represent the people,"
they are not Hill the best keepers of the people's
liberties, or their own, if ypu give them all the
power, legislative, executive, an [judicial: they
Would invade the liberties of the people, at lealt
the majority of them would invade the liberties
of the minority, sooner and ofceiier than an ab
solute monarchy, such as that of France, Spain,
or Ruflia, or than a well checked
like Venice, Bern, or Holland. An excellent
writer has laid, somewhat incautioully, that" a
".people wili never oppress themlel vesj or invade
<< their own rights." This compliment, if ap
plied to human nature, or to mankind, or to any
nation or people in being or in memory, is more
than has been merited. If it should be'admitted,
that a people will not unanimously agree to op
press thejnfcvfs, it is as much as is ever, and
more than is always, true. All kinds of experi
ence shew, that greater numbers of individuals
do oppress great lumbers of other individuals;
that pdrtie-; often, if not always, oppress other
parties ; and majorities almost universally mino
rities. All that this observation can mean then,
consistently with any colour of fact, is, that the
people will never unanimously agree to oppress
themselves: but if one parry agrees to oppress
another, or the majority the minority, the peo
pie still opprels tliemfelvcs, for one part of them
opprfcfc another.—" The people never think of
" ufarping over other men's rights." What can
this mekn ? l!>oes it mean that the people never
itn'anitmu'ilv think of usurping over other men's,
rights ? l'liis would be trifling, for there would,
by the supposition, be no other men's rights to
"ttfurp. But if the people never jointly, nor fe
derally, think of usurping the rights of others,
■what occafton can there be for any government at
:rll ? Are there no robberies, burglaries, murders,
adulteries, thefts, norpheats? Is not every crime
an usurpation over other men's rights ? Is not a
great part, I will not fay the greatest part, of
men detected every day in some difpolition or
other, stronger or weaker, moreorlefs, toufurp
over other men's rights ? There are some few,
indeed, whose V/hole lives and conventions (how,
that in every thought, word, and action, they
confcientiouily re fpecl the rights of others : there
lis a larger body still, who, in the general tenor
of thoughts and actions, dil'cover similar
principles and feelings, yet frequently err. If
we fliould extend our candour so far as to own
that the majority of men are generally under the
• dominion of benevolence aud good intentions,
yet it must be confefled that a valt majority fre
quently transgress; and, what is more diretftlv
to the point, not only a majority, butalmoftall,
confine their benevolence to their families, rela
fions, personal friends, parish, village, city,
county, province, and that very few indeed ex
rend it impartially to the whole community,
Now g ant but this truth, and the quqftion is
decided : If a majority are capable of preferring
tneir own private interest, or that of their fami
lies, counties, and part;, to. that.of the nation
fouie provision niuft be made in the
constitution, in favour of justice, to compel all
to rcfpec'i the common right, the public good,
the universal law, jji preference .to all private
and partial considerations.
The proposition of our author then fhouhl be
reversed, and it ihould have been said, that they
mind so much their own, that they never think
enough of others. Suppose a nation, rich and
poor, high and low, ten millions in number, all
afleinbled together; not more than one cr two
millions will have lands, houses, or any personal
property : If we take into the account the women
and children, or even if we leave thein out of the
quefHon, a great majority of every nation is
wholly destitute of property, except a small quan
tify of clothes, and a few trifles of other move
ables. Would Mr. Nedham be rejfponfible that,
if all were to be decided by a vote of the majority,
the eight or nine millions who have no property,
would not think of usurping over the rights of
the one or two millions who have ? Property is
surely a right of mankind as really as liberty.
Perhaps, at firft, prejudice,habit, fhanie, or fear,
principle or religion, would restrain the poor from
attacking the rich, and the idle from usurping on
the industrious ; but the time would not be long
before courage and enterprize would come, and
pretexts be invented by degrees, to countenance
the majority in dividing all he property amono
them, oral least i.i fhaiing it equally with its pre
sent pofiellors. Debts would be abolished firft;
ta\es laid heavy on the rich, and not at all on the
others ; and at lad a downright equal division of
every thing be demanded, and voted. What
would be the confeqnence of this ? The idle, the
vicious, the intemperate, would rush into the
ut iii oft extravagance of debauchery, fell and spend
all theirfljare, and then demand a new division of
tliofe who purchased from them. The moment
the i lea : s admitted into society, that property is
not as sacred as the laws of God, and that there is
not a force of law and public justice to protect it,
anarfhj- and tyranny commence. If " Thou
'• SHALT NOT COVET," and " I Hot? SHALT NOT
" steal." were not commandments of Heaven,
the) must be made inviolable precepts in every
society before it can b? civilized or made free.
If the firft part of the proposition, viz. thai "the
" pc oj : never think of usurping over other
" men's lights,' cannot be admitted, is the se
cond, viz. that " they mind which way to pre
" serve their own," better founded ? There is
in every nation and people under Heaven a large
proportion of persons who take no rational and
prudent precautions to preserve what they have,
much left to acquire more. Indolence is the
natural character of man to such a degree, that
nothing bur the necefljties of hunger, thirst, and
other wants equally pressing, can him
to action, until education is introduced in civi
lized societies, and the strongest motives of ambi
tion to ejccel in arts, trades, and profeflions,
are established in the minds of all men : Until this
emulation is introduced, the lazy savage holds
property in too little eftitnation to
trouble for the preservation or acquisition of ir.
In societies the most cultivated and polished,
vanity, fafliion, and folly, prevail over every
thought of ways to preserve their own: They
seem rather chiefly to study what means of'luxury,
dissipation and extravagance, they can invent to
get rid of it. " Tire cafe is far otlierwife among
" Kings and grandees," fays our author, "as all
" nations in the world have felt to some purpose
that is, in other words, Kings and grandees think
of usurping over other ihen's rights, but do not
mnid w: ich way to" preserve their own. It is
very easy to flatter the deinocratical portion of
society, by making such distinctions between them
and the monarchical and ariftocratical; but flat
tery is as base an artifice, and as pernicious a vice,
when offered to the people; as when given to the
oihers. There is no reason to believe the one much
honefter or wiser than the other ; they are all of
the fame clay, their minds and bodies are alike.
The two latter have more knowledge and sagacity
derived from education, and more advantages for
acqui ing wisdom and virtue. As to usurping
others rights, they are all three equally o- u ilty
when unlimited in power: No wife man wiTl trust
either with an opportunity ; and every judicious
legillator will let all three to watch and controul
each oilier. We may appeal to every page of
hiltory we have hitherto turned over, for woofs
irrefragable, that the people,when they have been
unchecked, have been as unjust, tyrannical, bru
fal.barbarous, and cruel, as any King or Senate
poliefled of uncontronlable power : The majority
has eternally, and without one exception, usurped
over the rights of tlieroinority. '" They naturally
" move," fays Nedham, " within the circle of
" domination, as in their proper centre." When
writerson legislation have recourse to poetry thei.
images may be beautiful, butthey prove nothing
1 his however, has neither the merit of a brilliant
figure, nor of a convincing argument: The popu
lace, the rabble, the canaille, move as naturally
in the circle of domination, whenever they dare,
as the Nobles or a King; nay, although it may
give pain, truth and experience force us to add
that even the middling people, wlien unfcontroul
ed, have moved in the fame circle, and have not
only tyrannized over all above and all below but
the majority among themfelvcs lias tyrannized
over the minority. " Aiid count it no leiis fecn
" rity than wisdom and policy, to brave it ov e .
" rhc people." Declamatory fjourilhes, although
they may fnrnilh a mob with watch-words, afford
no reasonable convitftion to the nnderftanding.
What is meant by braving it > In the liilkory of
Holland you will Tee the people braving it ever
the De Witts and in that of Florence', Siena,
Bologna, Piltoia, and the reft, over many others!
" Csefar, Crailus, and another, made a contract
with each other, that nothing ihould be done
" without the concurrence of all three; Spa it a-,
" tern intert y uequid agerttur in rtpub/ica, quad dij.
" ulti y e tribus." Nedham could not have
felecfted a less fortunate example for his purpose
since there never was a more arrant creature ci'
the people than Carfar ; 110, not even C atilline
Wat Tyler, Maffianello, or Shafe. Th> people
created Csfar on the ruins of the Senate, 2nd oil
purpose to usurp over the rights of others. Ll;
this example, among innumerable others, is \*ry
ajipofite for our purpose. >•
(To be continued-)
MISCELLANEOUS.
[London.'] It is thought that Dr. Wiliis will
not retire from town, as it is expected there may
be great occasion for his abilities for the relief oV
several members of the opposition, whole. heads
are not strong enough to bear the lhock caui'ed
by a late recovery.
of French forces are eXpet'ctd to
march into Flanders, orders having been received
at Bruxelles to prepare barrativs lor them ; they
are to poflefs.tliemielves of
and Nieuport.
The Speaker applied to Sir Joshua to have
his portrait drawn, adorned with the official robes,
but exprefled his fears at the difficulty whiehmult
arise in doing proper justice to the win r-Sir
Joshua replied, "be not alarmed, Mr. Grenville,
for I afl'ure you there is nothing in that!"
Ihe Fate or Genius.—Many a wife head,
and many a worthy heart, are doomed to ache
with the preftiire of human fufferings, living in
misery, and dying in obfeuritv and want, while
the duller worms of mortality fatten on the nar
row ol prosperity, living to tlienifelves alone,
with minds incapable of expanding, and forbid
den by fordid principles to do good and benefit
mankind.—The following short, but ir.elancholly
lift, proves the juftnels of a remark which wounds
sensibility :
Plautus turned a mill '; Terence was a Cave;
Boethius died in a gaol; Paolo Borghere had 14
different trades, yet starved with them all; Taf
fo was often diftrefled for five shillings; Benti
voglio was refufed admilfion into an hospital he
had himfelf erec r ted ; Cervantes died of hunger ;
Camoens ended his days in an alms-lioufe; and
\'angelus left his body to the surgeons, to pay
his debts, as far as it would go !
[ Pittjburgy Penn. May 2. J Died on the 2?th nit.
1 homas Hutchins, Esq. formerly a Captain
in the Britilh army, and late Geographer Ge
neral to the United States. Hisillnefs had been
of i'orae months continuance. It was not such as
to give him great pain, being a gradual failingof
the nerves, and analmoft ihfennble waste of the
constitution. He was in a country where he had
been early known, and to which he had a parti
cular attachment; in the house of his particular
friend, John Ormfbv. He wr^- daily visited dur
ing liis indisposition by thu» this place, and by
gentlemen occasionally resident or palling through
irom different parts of the continent. His fune
ral was attended by a considerable concourse of
people, and the service read at his obfequi'es, by
■ lr. Heckenwelder, a Moravian clergyman, acci
dentally present, and who had long known the
deceased.
His merit is well known; a man greatly ami
able ; and integrity his predominant quality.—
1 Ie gave a proof of this which few have it in their
power to give, viz. relinquifliing his commission,
worth 15001. for the fake of America, his native
country, and lying some time in irons before he
was able to make his efeape from the dungeon in
England.
His map early laid the foundation of American
and his services since his appoint
ment under the United States, have been uriver
fally acknowledged.
He has measured much earth, but a small space
now contains him.
By a gentleman who arrived here a few days ago from S:in
lufky, we are informed, that news was brought there before he
left it, of five paities of Indians, of different tribes, preparingto
<*o to war; it is said they intend for the frontiers of Kentucky
and the Ohio, to watch for beats coming down that river. Th' s
nforrtiation, we hope, will shew the necefTity to tliofe goinj
down the river, of being well prepared, as much danger is un
doubtedly to be apprehended.
(ts Completefeltsfrom the beginning, cf the GAZETTE Of I
[JA IT ED 'il.il ES, may at any time be obtained by thvfe ivhochujito
fu'-f.nlefor that pulslicaiwh, at'he. EdttofsOJicc, No. 9, Mutien-Lar.t.
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maide*"-
Lan i., near tfce Os wecp-Markit, Niw-Yos k.