/ ( - /V -
* /l/ d fU% *.
\ yl I' & f>/~?~/i/> \L AK( i § (s ** *$i f} ■
y 7-^ J y-*?-y t/ i/DL y\y Vi y ,-tVi-^^ ;s
/ s , , , f .*' // / i
No. VIII-
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS.
■ ,cvfTCH of the POLITICAL STATE of
' AMERICA.
NUMBER V.
r) UT once more alarmed by a sense of common
15 danger, the citizens of America were led, in
• te 0 r a fuppofecl competition of interelts, feri
fly to reflect on thole causes, which had reduced
to fuchan unfortunate lituation, and
to leek a remedy for those evils, which were daily
increasing upon her—the neceliity of a due commer
cial fvftem throughout the United States, appeared
to be the prevailing fentiinent, both as intimately
connei f te d with railing a revenue for the support
0 f government, as to give a spring to Agriculture,
Manufactures and Commerce : To effect this pur
pose a special deputation from the several States,
convened at Annapolis in Sept. 1786 ; but upon a
mature investigation of their powers, they were
found to be altogether inadequate, to either the
wprefs or implied object of their million—and it
was by them wifely judged, that a radical cure, ra
ther than a partial remedy, was neceilary to the
futurehappinefs and prosperity of their country,
and in order to effect this laudable plan, they re
commended a General Convention from the States,
at some future period, who, while they were deep
ly imprelled with causes of our national disease,
ihould be inftruifted to provide an efficacious re
medy. Their recommendations were readily com
plied with, as proceeding from the beftof motives,
and the reason of them was already anticipated by
the conviction, in every persons mind, of their ne
celiity— anda Convocation of the firft VV'orthies and
Patriots of America, was held in May, 1 787, at Phi
delpliia—directed to make luch additions to the
system of Confederation, as were neceflary to re
lieve America from those einbarrafsments, which
had resulted from a weak and inefficient form of
government; but upon a candid difcUfrion of the
whole plan of their business, and what was expect
ed from the result of their deliberations, it was
thought to be dangerous to the future liberties of
their country, to veil thole powers which ought to
be vtfted mall governments, to answer the end of
their institution, to one, conftitutedas the existing
Confederation—Congrefs being but a diplomatic
body, and not under those chccks and rcftraints,
which might be madetoarife from apian different
iy conftrwtecl ; and although a delicacy of fenti
mant, arising si 0111 a fear of exceeding the limits
of their commission, produced some objections to
a radical alteration of the confederated system,
yet as the salvation of their country was thought
to depend upon it—they determined to recur to
firft principles, and present, for the approbation, of
their fellow-citizens, such apian of future govern
ment as would answer the great objects of society ;
and p spirit of mutual concefiion and compromise
for the general good prevailing, they happily
unitedin a fyftem,which does honor to their hearts
as men,and their heads as politicians ; nor till grati
tude has 101 l a place in the bosoms of Americans,
can their exertions, to save a decaying land, be for
gotten. In this Syfiem we find the energy of a
good government united with the freedom of the
People, and containing certain great charatteriftics
peculiar toirfelf, and which presage much future
"appmefs to the subjects of its controul—thofe
re s, tr^ s » as a lf° sh e "important objects, which
niut be involved in its administration, will form
lu bjeot of my future numbers.
AMERICAN US.
(To be continued.)
EXTRACT FROM "AMERICAN ESSAYS. '
rh: IM PORTANCE of the PROTESTANT RELI
GION 1 politically considered.
*empora inutantur, ct nos mutainur in illis.
Region "which the citizens of America in
v; rr f r "' P rofcfs > that, for the fake of which our
t>lea<V S f °f e at h ers ''cfigned all the honors, the
I'arics r'c 16 col } l^ orts > and almost all the necef
biin lT° • , w hich many of them enjoyed in a
and ii 1U 6 wol "ld ; and traversed the \ ast
famiU^ 1 .° Us '^ : I'®tic, to trail .'plant themselves and
fwa rVn 1U ? C J Leu rut ' c > uncultivated wilderness,
men k? W -/ va g e beaits, and far more savage
f oai l';' S lhe / e W that Religion which laid the
tiie Rei", 0 ' 1 °r £ new auc l g reat Empire :'t is
Indufl"-v O r 0n °^ lers the moll favourable to
a &d conk ommerce > t,le Arts, Science, freedom,
It i s t j, 4""it temporal Happiness of Mankind :
and best F'° , rel 'gion of tlje greatest, wisest,
"•e Relif,;,., en £ ? world has produced ; and it is
the amhfr l V t lchwe acknowledge GOD to be
■ e ffulclalml f W! J- Purely be admitted as now-
To this Rei; °. our P? lt^cu^ar reverence and refpeift:
el -gton Britain is principally indebted
From W E D N E S D A Y, M„ 6, to Saturday. M.rr-r^r
for that happy and subsequent glori
ous revolution, which were the harbingers of her
present distinguished greatness : To this Religion,
and its worthy profeflbrs, it muftbe acknowledged,
much is due, in bringing about the late gloi ious
American Revolution : lrifpired by this Religion,
our tt uly patriotic Clergy,boldly and zealously Hep
ped forth, and bravely flood our distinguished Sen
tinels to watch, and warn us against approaching
danger : 1 hey wifely saw that our Religious and
c ! liberties were inseparably connected ; and
therefore warmly excited and animated the people,
resolutely to oppose and repel every hostile inva
dei . I hefe are lame of the temporal bleftings flow
ing from our Religion ; and yet many of those
pious Christians, to whom, under God, we owe much
of that fortitude, zeal, perseverance, and inspira
tion, which carried the American Soldiery through
difficulties and dangers, apparently infurmounta
bie, may at this day be ranked among the most
needy and dependent men in the community : This
is an evil greatly to. be deplored ; and urgently
demands every pofiible public and private exertion,
tor the lake of those who have thus generously em
braced a life of certain indigence, for the cause of
1 eligion and mankind—for the lake of their wi
dows and offspring, who are often left in the most
diftrefled circumstances, and for the honor andfe
curity o! that Religion,to which we are largely in
debted for this happy country. The generality of
mankind, are more or less influenced and attracted
by the power and splendor of riches ; and there
are too many of all ranks in every community, who
annex an idea of contempt to the appearance of
poverty : This is too evident to be controverted :
it therefore poverty is often treated with contempt,
and always with neglect, what may we not tear for
that Religion, of which, in this country, poverty
is a distinguishing badge ! The mats of mankind
are ever captivated by external appearances and
fliew—barren minds receive no light from within,
and therefore cannot so easily be informed and
convinced, of the intrinsic worth of true Religion,
as they may be caught and infnared by the tinsel
and trappings of any other ; it is therefore worthy
of consideration, what may be the probable effecfts
of the introduction of otiier religions, and how
far their effects, if in any view dangerous, may be
counteracted, consistent with the juli: and generous
principles of Toleration.
The ignorant and illiterate, constitute a large
majority in all communities—these are awed, their
excefles controled, and their opinions biailed, more
from the exertions of religion, and the visible ref
peeft paid to it by those, whom they deem their su
periors, than from its immediate, fenlible influence
on their own minds : Ic is therefore welt worthy
the attention of those who ailent to the importance
of the PRO f ESTANT RELIGION politically consi
dered, and who conceive that it has had any fharein
producing the temporal blelfings we now enjoy, to
honor it with every polfible diftinguifliing mark of
pre-eminence andrefpe<ft,not lepugnant to the true
tpiritof Toleration ; and liberally to aid our religi
ous h atliers, in the glorious work of fupportingthis
IMPORTANT BULWARK OF OUR CONSTITU
TION ; and in the commemoration of those great
events, conducive to the revolution and indepen
dence of America ; maythe virtue,zeal, and patri
otism of our Clergy, be ever particularly remem
bered ; for it is a truth,as sacred as the idea is seri
ous and alarming, that as our Protestant Clergy
shall fink into contempt or negletft, however unde
served, the learned will decline the profefllon ; and
then adieuto Religion, Morality, and Liberty; and
while in conformity to the benevolent precepts of
true religion, as well as the liberal principles of
our Constitution, Americans hold out religious li
berty to all the various fecTrs, who may be disposed
to become our fellow-citizens, let us not be want
ing in that attention and refpedr, due to the Reli
gion we profefs, left it should be fufpecfted, that
our tolerant spirit, proceeded more from a total in
difference to all religion, than from that liberality
offentiment and god-like Charity, which true re
ligion inculcatesandinfpires,and which it is hoped
will never be dislodged from the generous and be
nevolent breasts of AMERICANS.
E. C.
% « " Baltimore, Arril 21, 1789,
Extratt of a letter from George-Town, to a gentleman in this town, da.
ted April 17, 1789.
" Ycflerday pafltd through this town, on his way to New-York,
his Excellency General Washington, accompanied by the
Hon. Charles Thompson, Esq. feciftary to Congress.—The former
of these personages, goes to fill the feat of President of the United
States of America—the last distinction, which a grateful people
tan bestow, or a life spent with unexampled honor ..and appiaufe,
can deserve.
" To this ilhmrious appointment, he was unanimously called by
the voice of his country. —The annals of history, furr.ifhing no
thing so Angular in its nature, or so eminently glorious. Heroes
and legislators may have enjoyed the confidence of a majority of
their countrymen ; but none but Washington ever unanimou[l\
pleased as the former, or was unanimeujly chosen for the htter.—
Vhilft this very Angular event displays to the world
an empire of.diflimilar climes, products and intereils, liflenin" to
the Innple and enlightened voice of reason ; it on the other hand
exhibits to mankind, a character in its nature so very perfetl tha
tor its improvement, nothing can be added. *
Ftom Alexandria to George-Town, he was attended by
a voluntary comf ;y of private gentlemen—neighbours, friends
and children ot the man, whp had favtd their country and them —
Impelled by gratitude alone, and not moving, servile, at the in
junction of command, they chose this method to manifeft their af
fection for him, without whom, freedom had been nothing but a
name. An attendant corps, collected togetherby such motives,
does more honor to a man, than all the triumphs which Rome ever
beheld ; and the pcrfon so honored, is more lllutlrious, than anv
monarch on the globe. '
" The gentlemen of George-Town, emulons to display the r
patnotifm, and to evince their attachment for the firft charafler in
America, refpeflfully received him at the banks of the Patow
mack, and fct out to afcort him, until they should meet the gen
tlemen from Baltimore. °
" May this virtuous and truly great man, thus in fafety be con
ducted to the place of his deftindtion ; and may Heaven, auspici
ous to his declining years, kindly fmoothe over the thorns of le
gislation— avert from his administration the tumults of popular dif-
C °j — cau^e l ' ie f ame Sun which hath diffufed around the me
ridian of his ljfe so much splendour, finally to go down on his lat
ter end in peace."
Hie Prelident of the United States arrived in this place on his
way to Congress, on Friday afternoon, the 17th inft. with Charles
rhompfon, Esq. and Col. Humphryes. This great man was met
n>me miles from town, by a large body of refpeftable citizens on
horfehack, and conducted, under a discharge of cannon, to Mr.
Grant's tavern, through crowds of admiring fpeftators. At fi;c
o'clock, a committee chosen in consequence of a late notification,
to adjust the preliminaries for his reception, waited upon him with •
an address, which, with his answer, we are happy to be able to
give to the public. A great number of the citizens were present
ed to him, and very graciously received. Having arrived too late
for a public dinner, he'acccpted an invitation to supper, from
which he retired a little after ton o'clock, The next morning he
was in his carriage at half pad five o'efock, when ne left town,"un
der a discharge of cannon, and attended as on his entrance, by a
body of the citizens on horseback. These gentlemen accompani
ed him seven miles, when alighting from his carriage, he would
not permit them to proceed any further; but took leave of them,
after thanking them in an affectionate and obliging manner for
their politeness. We (hall only add on this occasion, that those
who had often seen him before, and those who never had, were
equally anxious to fee him. Such is tilt rare lmpreflion excited
by his uncommon character and virtues.
ADDRESS to the PRESIDENT of the United States of Ame->
rica.
S I R,
WE feel the honor you have this day conferred on the town o£
Baltimore, by favouring it with your presence, infinitely heighten
ed and enhanced by the desirable event which has produced it.
Happy to behold vour elevation, permit us to re-aiTurc you of our
purest love and afre&ion.
In considering the occasion that has once more drawn you from,
the Icenes of domeflic ease and pirivate tranquility, our'thoughts
naturally turn on the situation of our country, previous to the ex
pedient of the late general convention. When you became a mem
ber of that body which framed our new and excellent constitution
you diffipatcd the fears of good men, who dreaded the difuuioj
ol the Hates, and the loss of our liberties in the death of our en
feebled and expiring confederation : And now, fir, by accepting
the high authorities of Preside -t of the United States of America?
you teach us to expect every blessing that can result from the wileft
recommendations to Congress, and the moll prudent and judicious,
exercise of those- authorities ; thus relieving us in the one inllance
from the most gloomy apprehensions, as when, in a different ca
padty, you re-crofted the Delaware; and in the other, opening to
our view the most animating profpefts, as when you captured
Comwalii.v
But it is from the tenor of your own life, and youruniform and
upright political principles and ccndufl, that we derive the fullcft
assurance that our .hopes will be realized. Believing that a faith
ful performance of public engagements is eflcntial to the prosperi
ty of a people, and their implicit reliance on the promises of go
vernment. to its liability, we pleasure your well
known fcntiments on this fubjeft, and have no doubt but the
other branches of Congress will concur with you in placing public
credit on the most solid foundation. We havealfo every reason to
conclude, that under the administration of a Walhimnon, the use
tul and ingenious arts of peace, the agriculture, commerce, and
manufactures of the United States, will be duly favoured and im
proved, as being far more certain sources of national wealth than
the richelt mines, and surer means to promote the felicity of a
people, than the most fuccefsful wars. Thus, fir, we behold a new
era ipringing out ofour independence, and a field displayed where
your talents for governing will not be obfeured by the splendor of
the greatest military exploits. We behold too, an extraordinary
thing in the annals of mankind; a free and enlightened people'
choosing, by a free election, without one difTentino- voice, the latt
cominanderin chief of their armies, to watch over°and guard their
civil rights and privileges.
We sincerely prav that you may long enjoy your present health,
and the citizens ol the United States have frequent opportunities to
leltify their veneration of your virtues, by continuing you through
many fucceflive elections in the firft flat ion of human honored dig
nity In these expressions of our affections and attachment, we
are Icnfible wc do not speak the wishes of a town only, out the
united feelings of a whole people.
In behalf of the citizens of Baltimore, we have the honor to be,
&c. &c. *
James M'Henry, Robert Smith,
Nicholas Rogers, O. H. Williams,
Joshua Barney, Thorowgood Smith,
Paul Bentalau, William Climm,
John Bankson, John Swan.
Isaac Griest,
r&AsswEs by the President of Me United States of Ame-
RICA.
Gentlemen,
THE tokens of regard and affeaion which I have often received
from the citizens of this town, were always acceptable, because
I believed them always fincerc.—Be pleased to receive my best ac
knowledgment for the renewal of them on the present occasion.
If the affectionate partiality of my fellow citizens has prompted
them to afenbe greater effeas to my condua and chafer, than
were justly due, I trust the indulgent fentimeut on their part, will
not produce any presumption on mine.
I cannot now, gentlemen, refill my feelings so much as to with
hold the communication of my ideas refpeaing the aaual situation
of our national affairs. It appears to me that little more than
common sense sad common honesty in the tranfaaions of the com-
PRICE SIX PENCE.jjnity " wrulfl be v. r IT. •y to make u i Vippy nat'.on.
>r it tlx general government, lately adopted, Jhall be arranged
d adminiltered m a manner <>s to acquire the full confidence
the. people, 1 fur rrely believe they will have greater
1 vantages from their natural, moral and political circumstances,
or public felicity, than any other people ever poiT iT( d.
In the contemplation ot those advantages, row soon to be rea
\ /. d, I have rec hciled myfelt tothe facrificeof my wiib
c•, lo far as to enter again upon the ltage of public bt-,—l know
thedrlicate nature of the duties incic ent to the part wmch I am
< illcd to perform, and 1 feel my ncompetence, without the Angu
lar afiiftance of Providence, to them in a fatisia&ory
manner.—But having undertaken the talk, from a sense of duty,
no star of encountcring difficulties, and no dread of losing popu
larity, shall ever deter me from pursuing what I conceive to be
the true intercfts of my country.
Mr. Ken no,
As the fubjecft of the following Observations is
undoubtedly of great importance, you will oblige
your readeis by a re-publication of them : Ihe
performance is taken from that very valuable Mil'
i cllany, the American Mufcuin, publilhed by Mr.
Caxey, at Philadelphia. C. Z.
An ESSAY, on the APPOINTMENT of PUBLIC
OFFICERS.
Hurrbl fufrm'ttcd to allperfons concerned in elefling or appointing them.
THE perfection of government requires that
every public office, iii all the legillative, judicial,
and executive departments, ffiould be filled with
the most suitable and fit persons.
Good government manifeltly depends much
more on the goodness of the men who fill the pub
lic offices, than on the goodness of the form of
government, constitution, or even laws of the ltate;
for the errors of ail thefe,under the administration
of good men,will be mended or made tolerable,ei
ther by the authority of the legislature, or favour
ble conflruction ; but weak and wicked men will
pervert the belt of laws to the purposes of favour
or opprefiion—And one principal thing which
makes one form of government better than ano
ther, is, that there is a greater and a more natu
ral chance of the appointment of suitable men to
public offices in the one than in the other, and
this makes the power of appointment, or right
of election, a right of the highest importance to
the community ; it therefore requires the greatest
wifdoni in human policy, to veil this great autho
rity in fucli persons, as will molt probably exer
cise it with the most discretion and Icaft corrup
tion.
As the appointment of suitable men to public
offices is of the utmost importance to the well be
ing of the state, and consequently implies a most
sacred trust and duty in the eletftors ; it may not
be ajnifs to designate such outlines of character,
as are most eflentially neceflary in a public officer,
and especially when his office is of high rank, and
very weighty concern to the community.
1. Integrity ought to hold the firft place. The
integer vitas fceierifque_ furus of the poet, is of
mighty consequence in every society. A man of
ftriefc honesty and uprightness in his private life
and dealings, is easily known and distinguished
among men. Let this be an eflential part of the
character of the man, for whom you give your
vote, to serve in any public office of trust and im
portance.
2. A good reputation, fee from scandal. A 1
man attainted of scandalous crimes, either by con
vicfHon on record, or by general opinion of his
neighbours,appears with great difadvantage,inthe
sacred feats of public councils of law, justice, or
equity. 1 have heard of ajudge, who was gene
rally supposed to have corrupted his neighbour's
•>vife, and having once a very impudent offender
before him,was severe in his censures of the offence,
and opening the lawbook, read there the descrip
tion of the offence and punishment: the delinquent
laid, wiih a most malignant sneer, he could wifh
liis honor would turn over a few pages more, and
lee what the law said to whoremalters.
3. Religion and sincere piety. I don't think it
of much consequence of \v hatpatricularprofeffion
of religion he may be, whether Episcopalian,
l'refbyterian, Quaker, Lutheran, Calvinilt, Mo
ravian, &c. if he is reputed to be devout, fin
rere, and faithfid to the religion he does prof els.
13ut a loose liver, or an apoltate in religion, I
cannot think fit to be trusted in the state',, because
p. man who is not tr\je to his God, will not proba
bly be fa to his country; for when the highest
possible obligation cannot bind a man, it is not to
be expecfted that he will be governed by lefler and
more subordinate ones : when the grand firft prin
ciple of all true morals is wanting, the practice
r.iuft become too uncertain to be trusted in mat
ters of weight and high moment.
4. Sufficient abilities, adequate to the office
that ii to 1 »efilled. Tlieremuft be acongruity be
tween the business to be done, and the abilities of
the man appointed to do it.
5. Gravity, wisdom, and found judgment. A
grave and wife man gives weight and dignity to
uny department in which lie is employed, inspires
confidence that the business under his direction
will be well managed, and what is more than this,
will really do it well.
6. Decision, cfofe attention, and perfeverence.
Some men are undecided in their judgment, vari
able ill their attention, adt by fits and starts, and
often leave their business half done. It is very
dangerous :o admit men of this disposition into
public offices, where a coincidence of sundry de
partments is often ncceflary, and a failure of one
will foir etiines put a fullftop to all the reft.
7. A great conunand of his pallions. A man
who is known to be a Have to any favourite paflion,
or who is too ltrongly devoted to gaming, the
bottle, or his mistress, is not thought a I'afe person
to trust private buiinefs with, especially buiinefs
of consequence, which requires a watchful dili
gence, discretion, and caution ; much less can luch
a man be fit for a public trust.
8. Public offices ihoyld be filled with men of
steady attendance. There is great complaint of
tardy or totally deficient attendance, especially in
the members of aggregate bodies, such as Con
gress, councils, aflemblies, &c. by which means
the public buiinefs is much and often very injuri
ously retarded.
I hope *ve do not live in an age so degenerate,
as to render the above characters difficult to be
found. The importance of them must be obvi
ous to every person concerned in electing or ap
pointing public officers, and 1 hope will induce
them to make such a choice as shall fatisfy the
high trust reposed in them, and such as shall ef
fqrtually secure the honor and fafety of the state.
Philuddphia. Sift. 1, 1788.
Mr. FtNNO,
THE observations of TiMOLEON, upon the
fubje<st of appointments to office, inferred in your
last, coincide in general, with the fentiinents of
the wife and independent part of the community ;
but his last article is rather too strait-laced : I con
ceive that a man of worth and real abilities, may,
with propriety, let his pret^nfionsbe known, with
out letting down his own character, or wounding
the feelings, or delicacy of those, whose patronage
he solicits.
I go further, and suppose that duty and juflice to
the public, may unite to impel a person of the
greatell modesty, to come forward with a statement
of services, from which a competency of knowledge
has been acquired, to difcliarge the particular trust
applied for.
But if the idea of Tivioleon ffiould be adopted,
the 1110 ft meritorious characters might reft in per
petual obfeurity, while their country fufFered the
loss of their abilities.
Merit,Modefty,and Diffidence,are nearly allied,
and the two lalt have deprived the community of
the firft,two often already—and toadd tothe num
ber, by throwing additional obstacles in its way,
would be cruel, unjust, and impolitic.
While the influence of men in power is solicited
with ardour, and a perfecutiug perseverance by
thole, to whom ignorance gives a brazen front, let
us not deprive the Supreme Executive of a counter
balance to impertinent importunity,by difcourage
ing the applications of worth and abilities.
PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
hi the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES.
Tuesday, May 5, 1789.
Inourlaft we ftat« d, that Mr. Bland had introduced the pro
ceed Tigs of the legislature of Viginia on the fubj*& of Amend
ments —it may not be uniutereftingto state thefubftance of the obser
vations that occurred upon this business. On one hand it was ob
served, that the application of the State of Virginia wasmadewith
a view of obtaining amendments, agreeably to the sth article of the
Conllitution : That although the address of Virginia had b -en trans
mitted to the several Legislatures, but few ofthein had thought pro
per to coincide with that State—That it would be giving the address
due confederation, to refer it to a committee of the whole, to be
taken up at the time afligned for the House to consider amendments,
of which notice had been given yesterday—That the address was
from a refpc&ableState, and' merited an equal compliment at leall,
with othei applications that had already been referred to the coin
mitte—That although this address might (land alone, yet it might
be of weight in the decifiohsof the committee—That it rested on
the basis of its own merits, and could not in the nature of itt opera
tion, if committed, contravene thefpiritof the Confbtution—That
as it was a (landing rule of the Houf , that they should go into a
committee of the whole every day,there appeared to be a propriety
in the commitment.
In reply, it was observed—That although the application was
undoubtedly from the most rcfpettable quarter,yet it appeared to be
more proper, that it fliould lie on the table for the intormation of
the members—that when a fufficient number of similar applications
lhould be made, it might conft'tutionally come before Congress—
That it ought to be treated with due refpefl—but that Congress had
no deliberative voice,with refpeft to calling a Convention, agreeably
to the application—That when two thirds of the States should apply,
they weie bound to call one—That it would not be paying proper
refpeft to Virginia, to commit the application to a body which was
not competent to deliberate or decide upon it—That as the House
had been led to consider the fourth Mond iy of the present month
as the time to go into the confidei ation of amendments,
then would be a proper season to bring forward the application—
That it would be paying proper refped to it, to enter it on the
journals : This was therefore acceded to with the addition, that it
should be put upon the files in the Clerk's Office.
The Houle then resumed the report of the committee upon the
art'ele of tonnage—when
Mr. Jackson moved, that 30 cents on foreign tonnage should
be ft ruck out, and ao cents fubftnuted—He enforced his idea, by ob
serving, that as the main objefct to be etfetted by tonnage, was to
raise a tax to support light-houses and other incidental charges of
commerc , 20 cents per ton, he conceived, would be fußicient for
the purpose.—'The gentleman calculated, that upon the tonnage of
Georgiaonly, this duty would be about/' 400. The tonnage°pro
pofed, was too high and would operate unequally and oppicflively
upon some parts of the Union, more especially the southern States
That at present, when the members of that House were lea reel y
warm in their feats, it becamethem with caution and due de
liberation—th Constitution was in ;ts infancy—'t was well known
that fame Spates were averse from it—amendments were already ap
plied for, and it we mean to con the good disposition of Elates
uot in the Union, w* f:.'»uld ltoove with . Ution. Thi
would materially afft£l the State ot North-Carolina—S Ju'.lj-Carolt.
na and Georgia were situated as North-Carolina, and all infinite]v
worfc than the northern Stats—Not only rice and lumber could
not be exported, but 5000 hogfhads ot tobacco were now lym*
in ware-houses for want of shipping—Georgia w.<> .urcady borne
down by the oppreflion of foreign impositions, and obliged to '. ip
I'cr proauce under every disadvantage-—in thi&humiliating situation,
she looks to this Congress for reliet—fhould [he be u>lapp«>ihted,
she may he sorry for the prompt and dtcotd pait flic iiui nkm in
the second revolution : Ihe southern produce is now at a low ebb—
the specie is leaving the country, and diftrc fa Hares us in the lacc ;
att-.is time to encrcafe our burdens and diflicultics, by uicreafing
the embarrassments on onr produce, our only resource, w;ll be op.
picffive and d'feouraging. —Mr. Jjackfon concluded with faying, thai
he hopedthc motion would obtain.
Mr. Ames replied to Mr. Jackson —he obfevd, that much
had been said about prejudices and jealoulies between the different
States —but for his parr, he conceived, the situation of matters was
upon a more agreeable footing.—Britain had excited and foment
ed those idea*—they had their particular views in so doing—But it
wasver) apparent, that other sentiment* now predominated through
the Union —our interests were mutual, and nature had so arranged
the local circumstances ol the fouthein and noithtrn States, that
commerce and'agriculture were the natural pursuits o! the two
orand divilions of the Union —our intertft* were compatible—we
must be united as a nation, and look with an equal eye to the good
of the whole—a general pervades the Union —;t was evident,
that a greater and more cxtcniive coincidence of opinion oredomi.
nated, than had been conceived of—lt was not expected, that
the general interest would have been so universally acknowledged—
The neceflity and importance of a navy was now allowed on alt
hands —to effect this great and essential objtft, meafurtt must hea
dopted —and those, the most obviously within our power, ihould
claim our earliest attention —the encouragemMit of our commerce is
undoubtedly among the most important articles conducive to this
point.—The nuriing of our navigation indifpenfible —the duty pro
posed has this principally in view, and though a (mail one, it holds
up a necessary and advantageous discrimination between American
and foreign vefft Is.—The \ oice of the continent concurs in this sen
timent, and the prevalence of this and similar ideas ; produced the
present revolution, under the auspices of which we are now delibe
rating. Our navigation is not on a par with foreigners ; enrourage
ment is necessary, and every obfervanon thrown out by the gen
tleman from the southward, in opposition to the duty, proves this
neceflity. The gentleman has said, that 50C0 hogsheads of tobacco
are now laying in the ware-houses at the southward, for want of
shipping to carry them off : What stronger reason for encouraging
and encreafing our fhipping,that provision may be made to transport
our produce to market. And if this is the cafe, are we not at the
mercy of our rivals ? Our Agriculture calls upon us, to make this
provision; and according to the gentleman's own ae count, the du
ty will not prove in any measure so burdensome, as the loss of 5000
hofheadsof tobacco. The ufeful body of (hip-carpenters through
the States are complaining for want ot employ ; they are reduced to
the neceflity,of wot king for Jths of a dollar pr.day,or quit their native
homes, and fcek their bread among the Britilh, in the northern parti
of the continent. Mr. Ames added many other obfervatione, anc
concluded by giving his negative to the motion.
Mr. Burke observed, That the peonle of the Southern States en
tertained friendly difpoiitions towards their brethren at the tafi
ward : He could speak for the inhabitants of South Carolina at Ifalt.
that they took pleasure in their profpenty—that they looked to their,
for future protection, and wished to fee their navigation flourish
This shews, that they are not jealous —but at the fame time he con
ceived, that their profeflions and feelings would not juftify their sub
mitting in silence to the present proposed imposition on tonnage,
which must, in its operation, prove extremely unequal and oppre
five to them : The property of Southern gentlemen, it was \vrl>
known, confilted principally in their produce—this they depended
upon, and if they could not get it to market, the consequences were
obvious, they could neither subsist, nor pay their debts : The oper
ation of this duty will dim nifh the (hipping, already inefficient
The deficiency of the Eastern (hipping, is conceded on all hands—
so that we shall beentirely prevented from exporting our produce:
We wi(h to employ American (hips, in prcfcrcnce to all others;
but as there cannot be a seasonable supply, time must be given, that
the Southern States may not be opprefled, and borne down by the
regulations of Congress in the article of Tonnage.
Mr. Gooduue, Mr. Maddison, and fomeother gentleman, ad
ded fcveral observations in favor of the discrimination proposed, and
to the following effect, That a spirit of union and tranquility was
happily diffufied through the Union in the prefint instance—the fen- 1
ti mnt was uniform, and although a kind of incompatibility had
t»een pointed out, yet the idea was daily subsiding, and in time j
would be done away—that as the country abounded in materials for
(hip building, it was evident that just and proper encouragement
would soon produce an adequate supply—and if in consequence of
new regulat ions, temporary inconveniencies should arif'*, they would
soon crafe, for the high profits of any particular business soon redu
ced it to it* proper level—that however, it was ne>t owing entirely
to the scarcity of American shipping, that foreigners had in a man
ner monopolized the carrying trade from the Southern States, but
the preference they enjoyed might be traced to another cause, a very
ruinous one in the ifTuc, and that was, the credit thefc foreigners gffli
by which means they obtained an exorbitant price for their fupph«>
and they freighte d apparently low—yet the fatt was otherwise : B Jt
to prevent the sudden rife of freight, and the consequences app rr " j
bended* Mr. Maddison proposed, That a given time should el a pie- j
previous to the commencement of a high duty, though a decided 1
discrimination should immediately take place—the gentleman men
tioned |anuary 1, 1791.
Mr. Smith, of South Carolina, observed, That the interest of the
Southern and Eastern States were different, he conceived, in the
present cafe : That so far from laying refti i6lions upon the expor
tation of the Southern produce, by a heavy tonnage, it was more
necessary to give a bounty to encourage that expoitation. Soutn
Carolina was now in a deplorable condition —her domestic debt's
One Million—and (he owes toforeigners iooooo Sterl.—all whic
must be paid in specie : This duty falls on the produce of the coufl- ■
try, on the exportation of which their hopes were founded to pa) J
these debts : The duty, he contended, was out of proportion, & u J
would affect the Southern States, by obliging them to pay aboiiut) J
to the Eastern and Northern, for which they could not receive anv |
compensation : More than half the produce of South-Carolina,
now carried off by the (hips of Great-Britain—this duty must con
fequently enhance the freight unduly, for notwithstanding the Hup. >
ping of all nations had access to toeir ports, immense quantities 0
rice were now laying in the (lores for want of shipping; this >
would further operate to the discouragement of foreigners and It
disadvantage of the Southern States, by preventing their (hipst'
coming out on speculation with cargoes, by which means u PP ~ Ci }
were obtained, and a rivalfhip among the freighters produced, w
in I >me measure influenced the price in favor of the (hippers.
Smith was willing a diftin&ion should &e made, but not a * r S
one, and as the article of tonnage had been urged against the a
tion of the Constitution, it would recur to the wisdom of the rio
whether it would be just and politic, to confirm any of those p
conceived impreflions against the Constitution.
Wednesday, May 6. ,
The bill for laying certain duties on Goods, Wares, and Merc 1
dize, imported into the United States, was read, and referre
Committee of the whole. 0 f
Mr. HeCster a petition from Arthur R ! E j a s.
Pennsylvania, purporting, that by certain calculations, he a !
certained the mode of obtaining the longitude at sea, to a nearer ;
gree of perfection than had before been difeovered —praying ,
countenance of Congress, and that they would secure to hi in t c
clufive right of using and vending his refpe£tive improvements.r Shep."''m tr. - bill, will, amendments from
On mof ° n 0 *''' tl)e nianncr of taking certain oaths, was read,
the Senate, *'!*"' % dopu d by the House
s ,,d the am I cna ; ntro duced the application of the Legislature of
Mr. LaWR , , t i, February last, for calling a Convention to cqnfi
■fJew-Voik, "5 w | uc h being read, was dilpofed of asthe Applica-
Jer Amend™ > ins , entered on the Journals, and ttie ori
t""lfrr ffijl ."the Clerk's otirce.
ginal p^ ct rtfumed thefubjeftot Tonnage,and after some further
T'" h" report of the Committee for laying 30 cents, pr. ton, on
debate, tw w ; t h whom treaties had been lormed, wai
(hcveffc'V 0 P -j- ne House then adjourned.
adopted.
Thursday, May 7.
H of South Carolina, from the Committee appointed to
1' p r 'clident, toknowwhen it would beconvenient for him
vaiton 1 ' Address of tne House, reported, That they had ae
to'cce'r waited on the President, and that he had been pleated to
cprdmgly ( j iat wou [d he convenient to him, and he
mtnlI ° n j ,Ho'the pleal ure of the House to fix the place.
'"tT'Houfe then resolved, that they would present their Address
, nt htPreMen- on Friday, in the room adjoining the Reprefenuuves'
C nation of Mr. Bland, a Committee was appointed to confer
Senate, on the proper mode of prefentmg bills, resolutions,
'jJreffes to the President
"1 H „ u fe then refifmed the fubjeft of Tonnage.
Amotion was made by Mr. Madison, to reduce the tonnage 011
. fl,i ps n ot in alliance with the United States, from 50 to 40
ntspr ton, till the id of January, 1790, and then to be raised to
' s Tn!i motion produced some debate; and on the qur-ftiontoftrike
out the 50, order to make way for Mr. Madison's motion, 11
waine°atived —25 to 20.
A clause wasthen added to the report, which is intended to pre
fnt an y vessels from trading coaf.wif., except those which are
vholly ow" td b V cilizens of the United States.
The report as amended was then agreed a by the House—and j
coirmittee was appointed to bring in a bill.
Adjourned.
Friday, May 8. ,
Vpon the report of a Committee in favor of appointing a S rjr ant
• Arms, and nominations !. :ing called for, Mr. Ames and Mr.
Thachej made some observations in opposition tothe mcafure—
contending, that the officer was fupei-nuiricrary, and the post a mere
' Vli GiRRY, from the Committee appointed to prepar" a bill
orefcribin" the mode of collecting the Revenue, introduced a tem
porary law, which was read, and a hundred , copies ordered to be
printed for the Hoofe.
Mr.S»iiTH,ofSouthCarolina,atthismomentcame in, and inform
ed the House, that The President was ready to receive their addrels.
The House immediately arose, and following the Speaker, attended
The President in the room adjoining, wherrthe following Address
was preltnted by the Speaker, in the name of the House.
The ADDRESS
Ofthtllovsr. of Representatives, to GEORGE
'WASHINGTON, President of the United
States.
SIR,
The representatives of tliepeople of the Unit
ed States, present their congratulations 011 the
event by which your fellow-citizens have attested
the pre-eminence of your merit. You have long
held the firft place in their elteem—you have of
ten received tokens of their attention—you now
poffefsthe only proof thatremained of their gra
titude for your services, of their reverence sot
your wifdont, and of their confidence in youi
•virtues. You enjoy the highell, becaule, the
truest honor, of being the firlt magistrate, by the
unanimous choice of the freeft people 011 the face ol
the earth.
We well know the anxieties with which you
must have obeyed a summons, from therepole re
served for your declining years, into public scenes,
of which you had taken your leave forever—But
the obedience was due to the occasion. It is al
ready applauded by the universal joy, which
welcomes you to your station, and we cannot
doubt that it will be rewarded with all the fatil
faction, vith which an ardent love for your fel
low-citizens must review fuccefsful efforts to pro
mote their happiness.
This anticipation is not juftifted merely by the
past experience of your signal ferviccs. It is par
ticularly suggested by the pious iiuprelfions under
which yoti commence your adininiftration, and
the enlightened maxims by which you mean to
condutft it. 'We feel with you the strongest obli
gations to adore the invisible hand which has led
the American people through so many difficulties,
to cherilh aroiifcious responsibility for the destiny
ot republican liberty, and to seek the only fui e
means of preserving and recommending the pre
cious deposit in a system of legislation, founded
on the principles of an honest policy, and direct
ed by thefpirit of a diffufive patriotism.
The question ariling out of the fifth article of
'ne conflitutioi), will receive all the attention de
manded by its importance, and will, we trust, be
decided under the influence of all the confederati
ons to which you allude.
In forming the pecuniary provisions for the ex
ecutive department, we lhall not lose fight of a
wilh relulting from motives which give it a pecu
ar claim to our regard.—Your resolution in a
moment critical to the liberties of your country,
to renounce all personal emolument, was among
'he many presages of your patriotic services,
w hich have been amply fulfilled, and your scru
pulous adherence now to the law then iinpofecl on
canuot fail to demonstrate the purity,
whilst it encreafes the Inllre of a cliaraifier, w liich
ias so many titles to admiration.'
Such are the fentiinents which we have thought
t to address to you : They flow from our own
e atts,and we verily believe, that among the mil
'? ns „ w ' e " re P re fent, there is not a virtuous citizen
n 0 heart will difovvntliem.
All thatremains is, that we join in your fervent
Supplication tor the bleHiiiajs of Heaven on our
country ; and that we add our own for the choicest
of thole blelfings on the moll beloved of her citi
zens.
"To -which THE PRESIDENT made the fulloviin&
REPLY.
Gentlemen,
YOUR very affectionate Address, produces emo
tions, which i know not how to express : I feel that
my palt endeavors in the service of my country,
are far overpaid by its goodness ; and I fear much
that my future ones may not fulfil your kind anti
cipation. All that I can promise is, that they
will be invariably directed by an honest, and an
urdent zeal. Of this resource my heart allures
me. For all beyond, I rely on the wifddm ;»nd
patriotism of those with whom I am to co-operate,
and a continuance of the blelfings of iteaven on
our beloved country.
G. WASHINGTON.
After this, The Presidfnt retiring, the Mem
bers of the House returned to their leats.
A motion which was laid on the table the 4th
in ft. refpectinga request to the President, that he
would procure an eilimate of exports andim ports,
entries and clearances from the several States in the
Union, for twelve months previous to the fourth
of March last, was taken up, and after l'undry a
mendments, one of which was, appointing a Com
mittee to attend to the business, the motion was
adopted.
After this, the appointment of a Serjeant at
Arms was taken into consideration again—and a
vote for alfigning a time to come to a choice ob
tained—Tuesday next being appointed.
The Order of the day was then called for, and
the House went into a Committee of the whole,
when the second reading of the Bill, ascertaining
the rates of Impost, was attended to.
Dr. Tucker proposed, That the duty on distil
led spirits, Jamaica proof, should be reduced to 6
cents, pr. gallon—this brought on a debate which
lasted till the House adjourned.
NEW-YORK, MAY 9.
OF COMMENCEMENT.
ON Wednesday the 6th inft. was held in St. Paul's Church, the
annual COMMENCEMENT of COLUMBIA COLLEGE.
The Proceedings on this pleasing occasion, were introduced by
Dr. Johnson, (the President) with prayers.
The Candidates for the Degree ot Bachelor of Arts, then perform
ed the parts refpe£tively afligned them, in thefollowingorder : Viz.
James Duane, delivered the Salutatory Oration.
Matthew Mesier, an Ortionon The Passions.
Peter Mesier, on the Rijing Glory of Amertca.
Joh n Bamrr 1 dce, on Happiness.
Willtam Lupton, on she Art of Printing
Joun Van Ness, on Civiliutiov.
John Rem son, on the Progress of Gover nmenr.
Henry Izard, on Eloquwce.
W' l li am Hu rst, on Hiflory.
The Degiee of Bachelor of Arts, was then conferred on the follow
ing young gentlemen, viz.
Messrs James Duane, John Van Ness,
Matthew Mesier, John Rkmsf.n,
Peter Mesier, Henry Izard,
John Bam bridge, Willim Hurst, and
Wi lli am Lupton, John Mason.
The Degree of Mafer of Arts, on
Peter Stcdiford, Abraham Nun,
Philif Livingston, Samuel W. Johnson,
John Basset, Roger Alden.
The Degree of Doctor of Dwinit\\ on the
Rev. Abraham Beach, )
Rev Bsnjam.n Moot, C all of N , w . York .
Rev. William Lynn, C
Rev. John D. Gross, )
The Rev. Jeremi ah Leaming, of Conne&icut, and
The Rev. Jacob R. Hardenbergh, of New-Brunfwick.
After which the Valedictory Oration was delivered by Mr. John
Mason.
Th Performances were received with applause, by a numerous
and rcfpc&able audience.
Doctor Johnson, the President, concluded the whole with an as
!' £honate, pertinent, and elegant Address to the Graduates—and a
fervent Prayer to the source ot all Wildom and Felicity, for their
;uture prosperity and ufefu'nefs in lite.
THE PRESIDENT —His Excellency the Vicc-Prefidcnt—the
Senate, and House of R . preventatives of the United States—
he GOVERNOR and princip.il Officers of this Republic,
lonored by their presence, this highly ufeful and important literary
Inihtution.
The late public commencement in this city,
affords a conspicuous Specimen of the progrefsof
science, and the fine arts, as well as of moral and
political researches. It is an happy presage to the
future character and prosperity of this country, that
its youth, when in pursuit of literary attainments,
do not confine their attention to the dull paths
of mere fcliolaftick study, but acquire some gene
ral and ufeful ideas refpe<fting commerce, policy
and ethics. Under such regulations, may we not
hope to be, fucceflively furnilhed with patriots and
legislators, who will come forth into public life, en -
dowed with such knowledge, and guarded with
such principles, as will render them both the or
nament and fafeguard of our rising republic ?
Men participating of such qualities will be equal
ly remote from wishing a government of bigotry
and despotism, as of llcentioufnefs and anarchy.
The fpeiftatcrs who hear the debates of our na.
tional representatives, are unanimous in their ap.
plaufes of the candor and impartiality which ap_
pear in the deliberations. If the measures adopt.
Ed Ihould fail of giving complete falisfucnon ;o
the virtuous citizens of this nation, it will be no
argument that thelegillatureare not influenced by
the strictest integrity, and the purest patriotif'.i;.
It will only be an evidence, that the taik to be ac
complished, was surrounded with such various and
complicated difficulties, in the adoption of plans,
and had to combat such dive. fity of views and feel
ings throughout the country where they were to
operate, that it would be no left remarkable m
thefirft inltance to ftrik i upon expedients absolute
ly the belt, than to gain the entire approbation
of all clalles of men, over this wide extended
country. We peri'u&de ourselves however, that
wife measures will be pursued, and a very general
acquieflcence in them will prevail among our en
lightened countrymen. They will no doubt je
colleOt, that future legislatures may amend what i-i
found ineligible, and correct any unequal ope;a
tion, that the laws may be supposed to produce
in different parts of the Union : For it is no lei";
requifite,that a spirit of accommodation and juf
tlce lhould charadlerife the bulk of the citizens,
than that it lhouldgovern those who have the ma
nagement of public affairs.
On Tliurfday evening, the subscribers of the
Dancing Aflembly, gave an elegant Ball and En
tertainment. The President of the United
States, was pleased to honor the company with his
prefenci—His Excellency the Vice President—most
of the members of both Houses of Congress—His
Excellency the Governor, and a great many other
dignified public characters : His Excellency Count
de Moustier—His Molt Chriitian Majesty's Am
b'aflador—The Baron Steuben, and other foreign
ers of diftin<ftion, were prefeMt : There was a
numerous and brilliant colleiiiion of ladies, drefl
ed with consummate taste and elegance. The num
ber of persons present, was upwards of three hun
dred, and fatistaiftion, vivacity and delight, beam
ed from every countenance.
Yesterday, THE PRESIDENT received visits
of compliment at his lioufe.
We are informed, that THE PRESIDENT,
His Excellency the Vice President, His
Excellincy the Governor ok this State,
and'many other P rsonages of the> greatejl dis
tinction, will be at the Tmlatre, on Monday
night next.
A correspondent remarks, that it is doubtless
very improper, to give the ''Title of Excellency to
THE PRESIDENT : because it places him, in his
official capacity, upon a level with some public oiii
cers, efpecijilly in the diplomatic Hue, who are to
receive their cominillions from him.
ELOGIUM.
Dr. Franklin has had the happiness of living
to lee science extended under his foftering hand,
from one end of Pennsylvania to the other. What
hath he not done ill the cause of literal ure and
freedom ? Was. he not a principal agent in the
foundation of the firft public school of any note in
the State ? Was he not the principal agent in the
foundation of the firft library in Philadelphia !
What feininary hath not partook of his bouuty ?
Hath he not after a constant exercil'e of his extra
ordinary abilities, at the very eve of life, exhibit
ed a striking proof of the consequences of good
habits, in taking by the hand an infant academy
at Washington, the very extremity ofthe State ?
Did he not some time ago endow it with fifty
pounds? Hath he not within a few days past directed
Mr. Redick, one of the trustees of that school, to
receive from the State the whole afnount of his ac
count for portages during the three yeaKS of his
presidency, and which amounted to avery consider
able sum ? Yes, all these things he hath done.
But to all these things and as much more as would
fill a volume of such things, would be but the
dust of the balance to what this great, this good,
this ornament to human nature,hath done for man.
Thursday arrived the ffrip George from Glasgow.
Papers brought by this veflel, give the following
intelligence, viz.
March 10, The Lords Commiflioners addrefled
both Houses ofthe Britifii Parliament in a speech,
by orders from the King.
At the Cabinet Council, in which this speech was
considered, the King presided.
After the-Council broke up, the King took an
excursion for two hours on horse back.
The standard was hoisted and the guns fired at
t-ie tower, and the city illuminated on'account of
the King's recovery.
His Majesty's firft public appeararjce, will be at
St. Paul's Church, to offer his thanks'to the power,
that has restored him.
Mr. Pitt has been compared to a cocoa-nut,which
has a rough out fide, but much milk at the heart.
Great convulsions in Ireland, on account of the
Lord Lieutenant's not forwarding the address of
the Iridi Parliament to the Prince of Wales.
Several thousand medals, it is said, have been
struck off" by the opposition—the Prince 011 one
fide, and a Crow n on the other—their disappoint
ment on the King's recovery, and consequent cha
grin preventsanyremarkson the indccency of their
conduift.THE TAJjL ET.
NUMBER VIII.
" Truth will ever be unpalatable to those, who deter
mine not to reiluquijb error."
i O deceive fools, and flatter knaves, is a line of
conduct, that the art or the indolence of men may
induce them to adopt. A crafty man may conceal
tle truth from finilter views ; an indolent man
ma} impof'e on himfelf as well as others, becaule
he does not wish the trouble of knowing or com
municating the truth. There lire various pretexts
and various forms, under which a profefled poli
tician pursues his obje<fl; while his real motive of
action is generally kept out of fight. But I know
oi no pretence, that is more commonly or more
plausibly urged by designing men, than that they
dehre to a«ft agreeably to the voice of the people.
It has been acknowleged, that to oppose the public
opinion, when right, is imprudent ; but it has
alio been aliened, that to cherifhit, when -wrong,
*s diflionelt. To afcettain the public opinion,
should be the firft aim of a legiilator ; to coincide
with it, as far as it is well grounded, is good policy ;
but to reform old abuses and to introduce new
lubjecls for public reflection, is a still greater du
ty and a conspicuous honor.
It is often asked by sensible and lioneft men,
whether government should controul the pub
lic opinion, or be controuled by it ? The truth
ib, they have a reciprocal influence upon each o
ther Many people will fay, that the formation
of the new Confhtution was directed, in some de
gree, by public opinion : This polition can hard
ly be admitted. It is w ell known, that while the
general Convention were in fellion, scarce any per
-I'on ventured to predict, what would be the rel'ult
of their deliberations. I mention this circumltance
to prove that there was no definite public opinion'
1 elativeto that object.— When the proceedings of
the Convention were publiibed, they were lather
unexpected by the public mind, than contrary to
it. 1 here was no general sentiment pre-conceived
in the matter The weight of characters, who
com poled the Convention ; tlie peculiar fitusuion
of the country, and fevcral other causes-, have re n
dered the new Conllitutioii generally acceptable.
But upon the supposition, that each article of it
had been previously recommended by town meet
ings, and that it was, literally speaking, framed
by the voice of the people, it would be no f'ufiici
eiii rcafon that its adminiltration should not atft
with wisdom and honefly ; and ltrive to promote
the prosperity, rather than confirm the prejudices
of the community.
The government of every country; when once
in operation, should produce a re-action upon the
public opinion. It should search for it, estimate
it, trace its origin, examine its effects, endeavor
to remove its errors ; but what is of more impor
tance, it should colled; the scattered fenthnents of
the public and form them into proper fhripes ; and
in some instances c.eate opinions and attachments
wholly anew. Ido not barely confine my remarks
of the re-aCtion of government upon the public
mind, to iis speculative principles, but would ex
tend uiy idea to a controul over the prejudices
the habits and the.manners of the people.
Men are or maybe, very much what the govern
ment pleases to make them. There is no fatality
in the cafe, why people cannot be made honed*,
indullrious and pacific ; as well as turbulent, floth
ful and knavilh. These different qualities may
dif'cover themselves, without presupposing any
change or improvement in the heart. ' They may
be the result of good political regulations. We
f.ftenobferve ainnn in some inftantes just and honor
able ; while in other respeCts, his conducft deserves
a revcrfe character. The fame causes, which made
him partially virtuous, had they been extended,
would have made him vikollj fb. Whenever we'
fee a profligate man, we mult conclude, either,
that he was educated in a wrong manner by his
parents and guardians, orthat there was fbmethin a
wrong in the government, under which he lived.
A man is not doomed, by natural necCffity, to be a
inave, any more than he is to be a conjurer I r e
may be taught both, or he may be restrained from
becoming either. We must therefore conclude that
a government falls ihort of perfection, in r-ropor
tion as its citizens are deficientin tliedifplay of a
miable and ufeful qualities. The tafk.ofi lerifla
tor, how much so ever he may have accomplished
is never finifhed, while his inflitutions have failed
of producing a. pretty perfect slate of society
'] his will not be practicable perhaps in a full de
gree, but with proper attempts, considerable im
provements will not be found inattainable.
The visionary projects of the ancient philoso
phers, who supposed they could subdue the paf
■'■ons of men,and render them subservient to rcafon
have beguiled many into a belief,that men always
must be, juifc as they have been. The passions of
men, it is true, can never be cxtinguifhed ; but
they may lie diverted from objects that are hurtful
to those that are beacflcial. No paflion, of the hu
man mind is uneflential to the well beihg offocie
ty ; and that any one is dangerous, h onlv because
it is not properly managed. Nature furnifhes
pafiions, but itis edtuai ion and government that
turn tliciii to mis or that particular object. The
common remark that legislators mufttair mankind
as they find them, does not make it excufeabie
that they ihould have men, as they find them.
From the Massachusetts Magazine.
On CHESTERFIELD'S LETTERS.
If judgment, wit, and knowledge of mankind ;
A polilh'd style, and manners moil refin'd,
Can make a letter, or a man complete,
All thefein Chefterfield united meet :
But if an upright heart, religious truth,
Morals and honor, form the perfect youth,
t rom purer lights catch thou the guiding ray,
And fpurnthe courtier, and his book away.
' MANUFACTURES.
Extraflof a letter from a gentleman in Scotland, to his
Friend in Philadelphia, dated 7,d Nov. I 788.
" \V E have got a mill to go by water, forfpin
ning flax and hemp ; and lam informed, that a
mechanic here, has just invented a Jeanieor hand
mill, that will spin flax or hemp : It can be made
ot any number ot" heads or spindles, from forty to
one hundred : A woman and girl will be able to
spin twenty l'pinell of yarn on it, every week.
Mills to go by water, have 31fo been erected at
Glalgow, Derby, Nottingham, &c. Sfor lpinning
long-wool, commonly called combed--woot. The
cotton-mills, with a little alteration spin short or
uncombed wool. Mills have lately been eredted
in England for grinding, wheat, corn, &c. where
little or no water can be had, to 50 by steam en
gines : there is one of those mills, worked by
steam engines, that drives thirty-two mill
These improvements, would certainly be very
beneficial in a country thinly peopled, and where
wages are high. Models of all new and ul'eful im
provements in hujbandry, if kept at some town in
a central part of the State, where all might have
accels to lee them, might tend to accelerate im
provement in the cultivation of the ground ; this
certainly ought to be done at the expense of the
State. Brewing of malt liquors, will, I think, be
providing the best market for your farmers ; and
pro telling dut-es, on all articles imported from other
countries will enable your manufacturers to pro
ceed, with vigor, spirit and fyccefs : There cannot
be a more certain way of giving encouragement to
agriculture. than by providing, a fure,conftant and
steady marker, for the produce of the earth : And
undoubtedly manufallures at home, in this view, are
a more sure and steady market than any foreign
nation,who may cut of your market with them all
at once. It behoves you,therefore,to Encourage
Manufactures ; and the government ought,cer
tainly,to lay on heavy duties, and to give bounties
upon your home manufactures : But I hope your
new government will rectify all these things."
"NATIONAL MONITOR.
NUMBER nr.
" Common consent, gives currency to many er
rors."
IT has been obfervtd, that a proper sense of the
7hrTZ Ce "f diffufed generally along
the people would prove a mojlpowerful _principle to per
petuatc their freedom and happiness.
The more this idea is revolved in 'the mind, the (Iron
gerw.lt be tat tmpreffion of its truth; a,id the wore ex
tensive its application to the cirCumfiances of human
nature the greater will be the convidion of its compe
tency to produce the moftfalutary effeds uponfbeiety
It ,! a given principle, that the firft Jlep towards the
acq,,,fit,on of any objed, is a feeling sense of its being
neceliary to our happiness : Government has been too
long considered as I he harbinger of human weaknefs,and
depravity rather than the refill of the bejl andm o /t ex
alted reafontng. Hence it is reflected upon, as "a ne
cellary evil/' when in fad, it is part of the divine
economy m the plan of human nature.—" Order is
eav:n s fir]l law. A deviation from this Economy
produces the great complaint of einls in thefyft em of mo
rals and of humanity.—Government then is of divine
origin—the divine government is absolute—is per fed ■
and for this reafon-becattfe it is founded in iL, it 'e
■wtfdom and all its operations are perfedly wife yill
and good : And for this reufon also human fiver
ments never should be absolute ; because the imperfec
tions of our natures render it impofflble, that a perfed
government should ever be founded and adminiftled
by imperfett beings. J
From tins idea las mankind been inspired to devift a
balance ,n Government, or mutual checks ■ by which
■n a gradual way,fuch a degree of predion may be^l
\ i t"' ie Z ,Jlut '°"> a " d that f"<rity in society, for
■whtchgoven-ment was originally intended by Heaven,
nefe o jtrvations may serve in fame degree to impress
he necefay and importance of government upon our
Z/nd7" r «s defig,,, will be
f l a n
G F T H E
GxVZETTE of the UNITED STATE 3
A NATIONAL PAPER.
To be publifked at the seat of the. federal government an d
compri/e, as fully a, pojjible, thefollowing ObjeHs, viz. ' "
I. 'C'ARLY and authentick Accounts of the P."OC£tni\r
-A—i ofCOXGRESS—its I-AW S, ACTS, and RESOLUTION''
communicated Co as to form an HISTORY of the TRAXSACTirivt
of the FEDERAL LEGISLATURI, under the NEW CONSTITUTION
11. UiPAjTiAt Sketches of the Debates of Conc»e ss
111. ESSAYS upon the great fubiefb of Government meeiienl
;nd the federal Legislature in fartUuUr- a!fo upon the MimdJ
tocal Rights ol the ..ierican c iti ujj, as found duponihcFc.
dcral or State Conitituticns; also upou every other Sub'eft
Ina V appear fuitablc for newspaper difcufiion.
I > A SERIES of PARAGRAPHS, calculated to catch th
livinc manners as they rise," and to point the publick
attention to Objefls that have an important reference to dmelri
facial, and publick happiness. '
V . The Interests of the United States as count cied with their li
terary Inilitutions—religious and moral Objefts—lmprovements in
Science, Arts, EDUCATION and HUMANITY—their forei™
Treaties, Alliances, Connections, &c.
VI. Every species of INTELLIGENCE, which may affect t h»
ommeraal, agricultural, manufaßuring, or political INTERESTS of
-he AMERICAN REPUBLiCK.
VII. A CHAIN of DOMESTICK OCCURRENCES, coMcd
through the Medium of an extensive Correspondence with the ret
pcctive States.
VIII. A SERIES of FOREIGN ARTICLES of INTEUI
GENCE, so conneflcd, as to form a general Idea of publick Again i,
the cajtcrn Hcmifphcrc.
IX The STATE of the NATIONAL FUNDS ; also of the IN
DIVIDUAL GOVERNMENTS— Courses of Exchange—P, IM ,
Current, &c.
CONDITIONS.
I.
. "£ Ga zett e of the Uni tid St ate s Jhallbe printed with tk
J- 1 me Letter, and on the fume Paper as this publicat;cn.
11.
_ It Jhallbe pull filed every WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY, ml
e ivered, as may be dirked, to every Subscriber in the city, on thole it\s
111. ,
r li'J"'" Sui f cril " r * (exclusive of pottage) will be THREE DOL
.LAKopr. annum.
IV.
1 ll 'f'J^f rm '-'""iualpayment to be made in three monthsfromthett
pctrance of thejirfl number.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
lV 'ni' " ll the "P' l ' tws upon the Continent-, also at tie
City-Coffee-Houfc, at No. 86, William-Street, and at the
Printing-Office, Ko. g, Maiden-Lane, near the Ofwe ? o-
Markct, New-York.
A. I. Jiy a new Arrangement made in the Stages, Subscribers at a
distance jvill be duly furnifhed with papers.
PO */- S i* 1 V;7~7 A * ar £ e "*P Te ll lon "f ery number nil/ be find cjf—
Jo tiat oubfribers may always be accomnodatcd with complete Sett.
To the PUBLIC K.
AT tliis important Crisis, the ideas that fill the
mind, are pregnant with Events of the greatest
magnitude—to ilrengthen and complete the UNl
rmmrnrT? 1816 ! — to exter, d and protetft their
COMMERCE, under yet to be form
trT~xT 0 ,^ Xp re 3, nd arran g e the NATIONAL
rr> JItJ; t0 I rritore and establish the PUBLICK
•jo /1~~ anc L dLL under the auspices of an un
rDri/o ? Government, will require the EN
r, or the Patriots and Sages of our Country—
Hence the propriety of encreafmg tbeMtdimns of Km*
ledge and Information.
AMERICA, from this period, beoins i new Era
in her national existence— << the world is all
BitoßE her"—The wisdom and folly—the miferv
° f the EMPIRES, STATES, and
KINGDOMS, winch have had their dav upon the
great J heatre of Time, and are now no more,
iuggeft themoft important Mementos—These, with
the rapid series of Events, in which our ownCoun
trj tas en io deeply interested, have taught the
0 iTnnM Citizens of the United States, that
r wc Gov ERNMENT—LIBERTY and
LA\* S, are inseparable.
This ConviAion has led to the adop tion of the
j-.ev Conlhtution ; for however various the Sen
timents, refpedting the MERITS of this Syftein, all
C f°° Vt!4iV>rr- e xf^ reecl 111 the 3lece ffity that exists,
of .in Er 1- ICLENI 1 EDERAL GO VEPJSfMENT.
Al ivrw'Drxm fore ' eftabliihed upon NATION-'
pt £■« v- INDENT, and IMPARTIAL PRINCI
-1 w Inch /hall take up the premised Articles,
upon a comretent p lan, it is presumed, will be
iga y mterefting, and meet with publick appro
bation and patronage.
1 he Editor of this Publication is determined to
of unexploredHe
Ci S-j '. u , a 1 z f nce of Persons of leisure and abili
rillT' rir u ™ ted with disown assiduity, he flat
ters himfelf will render the Gazette of the United
" ot , m r vonh y general encouragement
andis, Vith due respect, the publick's humble fer-
C ' JOHN F E NN 0.
Aeu-Yori, Aprih 5 , i 7 Sq.
A nr, TW ? Y °UNG SPRIGHTLY LADS
A f p ted > as APPRENTICES to the Business
luWhedby JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiden
<NE ' the Oswego-Mjrist,
Nit w-York.