(&02
>'o. X.
,«r F TCH-./'*'POLITICALSTATE 0 f
AIVIERIC A.
NUMBER VIII.
THE arrangement of the great constitutional
powers of Government, viz. the legislative,
• Hicial and executive, into three diftinift and
derate bodies, differently constituted andinde
rndent of each other, torms the belt security
Ciinft encroachments «pon either, or the abule
power appertaining to each, which human
Lenmty has yet devised , as the oppolingimer
etooftlie several branches tend to produce that
' allance and equilibrium between tne whole,
which affords a great palladium to the libeties
of the people, and forms a government of laws in
cortradiftindtion to a government of men. _
In proceeding to examine the present National
Svftem by the criterion just eitablifhed, we ftvall
find as'near a conformity to it, as the circuin
jfamces and relative fituatjon of the governments
priorly exifting,feemed to admit of; though per
haps net so completely conformable, as might
have been Villied: One branch of the Legillature
iscompofedof men chosen directly by the people,
and at Itated periods, which are as near to each
other as is compatible with the real interests of
the people ; for a ihorter period than two years,
would not have afforded futficient time to become
acquainted with those points, in which thel'e in
terests confiited : The proportion of the Repre
sentatives to the people are adequate to the pur
poses of their inltitution, and at the fame time
free from the inconveniencies and indecision pe
culiar to multitudinous fiflemblies ; they (very
properly) hold the purse-strings of the nation,
which it is natural to suppose they will never
unloose, but for the benefit of the people, in which
coiififts their gfeateft security ; as the want ot
money tofupportit must ever bar the progrelsof
any combination, holtile to their l ights ; and as a
further security against opprellive fyltems of tax
ation, we have the oppofinginterelts of thole who
levy them, being thenifelves fubjed: to the bur
then equally with the reft of the conint unity.
We now proceed to some general reflections on
the other branch of the Legiflaturt, which we
find to be cjiofen indirectly by the people, thro
the medium of each particular government, and
intended to support diltincftly, that corporate
power of their c6jift.it uents, which is the eflence
of this confederated Republic, or confederation
of Republics, and which affords the reason ot an
equal representation from all. AVhile this body
is peculiarly calculated topreferve t'hefe .flential
diltinttions, it has a tendency to check the pro
gi'efs'of any party-projects, and to temper that
zeal and palLon in the other branch, which too
often bears fvvay in popular aflemLlies, wl,iilc their
riper years, and more mature judgment, give the
people a right to expecft the most beneficial conse
quences from their cQjuurrent pov cr. The ad
vantages to be derived from their duration in of
fice, for forming treaties, &<;. need 110 comment,
Upon the joint wisdom of the two branches of
the Legillature, will the Judicial power becftab
lilhed to be perfc&ly independent of either, af
ter being thus conflicted, v. hich independence
must aril 5 from the tenure of the yfliccs " duritig
gwilekavior," and such salaries as will give them
eal'e, and prevent the chance of corruption ; and
perhaps in no cafe can abftraift and uncontroled
power, be Ipdgcd with more security to liberty
and the rights of the people—the experience of
several States in the union w ill strongly support
this pofiiion.
We come now to the executive branch of pow
er, the formation of which proves the difficulties
that attended its cftablilhment, and which under
all circnmftances, is thought to be the most eligi
ble that could have been adopted. Tlje objec
tions which now attend it, confiit inthe want of a
proper responsibility in the fit ft Magistrate (ow
"tgto the partition of his powers with the Senate)
which is peculiarly attainable in an elective Ma
gistracy, and affords the most effective security a
gamft the abule of power; while here we alfp
»nd the fame men legiljators and executors of the
laws, which in some cases may prevent their im
partial administration ; bur the present pQfitio.ii
0 '^ e executive, as corix-fponding wfth the ge
neral ideas of those who planned if. may be
( eemedthe njoft expedient; and while tliat gigat
roan fills the executive power of this government,
10 half whole enlcgium the ablest pane-
S}"'! must blush, and against whom the tonjiue
0 ealum_ny has never daved to circulate a wliif-
Justice will have her commanding power, and
j C var ioJs interests of the community be dircct
and guarded by an equal hand, ll'any futu.e
n e 'ii. government lliould be found
"1 CC a T. we invoke the funics of Heaven on the
attempt.
From WEDNESDAY, May 13, to SATURDAY, May 16, 1789.
The great objecfts to be attended to by this go
vernment, as Revenue, Agriculture, Manufactures,
and Commerce future principles of Taxation,
Public Debts, Public Faith, or Credit, uulocated
Land?, Naval and JMilitary Strength, ire. ire. will
be attended to m the form heretofore pursued,
or by a special publication.
AMERICANUS.
STYLE FOR THE PRESIDENT.
[If the following Speculation, taken from the " DAILY AD
VERTISER" of Thursday la it, did not merit a re-publication
.from the importauce of tne fubj'ft it x-efers to, y£t its beau
ties as a Compnfition, would be a luflicient apology for its appear
ance in the (.azetteof the United States; but its eligibility on both
accounts is fl.rik\ng!y apparent.]
To the PRINTER.
S I R,
A committee of Congress are appointed to re
port 011 the style in which the legislature are to
address The President of the United States:
That ibniething in addition to the word Presi
dent is proper, maybe inferred from the practice
of all the most civilized, and the moll
barbarous,"rom the condu'ft of these States, to
wards their own officers, and from the declarati
ons of those who by their lex or station, are pla
ced out of the vortex of politics, and speak on
ly from their feelings : By these the title of Ex
cellency is considered as too little for so dignified
a fubjec r t, and for want of a better term, the
word Highness is substituted. This too is excep
tionable, as conveying no definite meaning; and
as it lias hitherto been applied to the little Prin
ces of Europe, cannot be expreilive of the rank of
the firft magistrate of" a free people. Why ftiould
not the style be commensurate to his station ? If he
is the firft wliy fliould any other ap
pellation be fought in the court calenders of Eu
rope, or the fubliute bombast of the east; GEORGE
WASHINGTON, Supreme Magistrate, and
President of the United States, is surely
not harflier than the various titles aflumed by the
executive powers of other nations; nor will Tour
IWagijlracy, or J'our Supremacy, found worse than
Your Grace, Your Eminence, and Your Highness,
when once the car is famiiiarized to the found.
The ideas thqfe terms convey, are not only bet
ter adapted "to the fubje«ft,*but are infinitely more
elevated, since in this firft application, they will
borrow all the lustre of the man to whom they
aiefolely appropriated, and to every hearer they
will be fynonimous with Bra v ery, Dig nity, Pa
triotism, ViRTtfE, Wisdom, WASHINGTON;
and when the tears of a grateful people shall be
dew the grave oftheir beloved Chief, these titles,
endeared and dignified by their firft wearer, will
reflecfl lustre on his fuccelior. A. L.
" WiLkiincton, May g, 1789.
An ADDRESS of the Dclatcare Society for promoting dotnejlic Manu-
JtUhrcs, tt George Washington, Pre/idcfit-Gcncral oJ,the
United States.
WE the members of the Delaware Socicty for promoting domes
tic manufattui'ts, beg leave to prcfent youT Excellency with our
warpieft congratulations on you>iappointment to the presidency
of the United States.
Dfceply penetrated with the most indelible Sentiments of grati
tude for yoUrfortner inestimable frrvices, we participate the lively,
effufions of joy so univerfaily communicated by your consenting
to accept the high trust to which you have been so honorably
elcfted.
We are sensible that the eftabl fhrnen: of ? £ene»al government,
in which freedom and energy are so happily blended, is an object
of the* highest consequence, and will require the reftnration of that
Confidence in the ad mi niftrat ion of p. . licaffaiis, which the general
opinion of your disinterested virtue, moderation and other eminent
qualities alone can inspire.
As your excellency has been plcafed to rclinquifh the enjoy
ment of a dignified retirement. iid incompliance with the ardent
felicitations of a numerous ar\d grateful people, once more to afford
us the benefit of your sage direction and illustrious example, we
contemplate with pee.uliar fatista&ion the credit and renown our
new govcrnmc nt will acquire, even in d'.ft-int nations, by its com
mencement under the glorious aulp c.s- of your distinguished
ab... ics and celebrated name.
We are conscious of our obligation to Providence
for the preservation of ybur invaluable life to a period so impor
tant, and oXir most fervent withes will be unceasing that your
excellency may lono- preiide in the council of America, with un
interrupted harmony and the superior delight of promoting the
happiness and prosperity of a rising empire.
being fully convinced of your Excellency's indulgent attention
to whatever isdefigned to be of public utility, we flatter ourselves,
the Society who have the honor to present this addrels, having af
tociatcd under an engagement to clothe themfelvcs in complete Suits
of domeflic manufactures, and encourage every branch of the fame
in Ant erica, will meet your Excellency's approbation, and be fa-
Kprabiy confuler d as an additional inlbnceof the federal and pa
triQiic Liniments of the citizens of Delaware.
In behalf oj the Society,
THOMAS MAY, Vice-President.
To the Delaware Society for promoting Domcjlic Manvfaftures.
Gentlemen,
I return you my fmcere thanks for your congratulations and
frood wishes on my appointment to the presidency of the United
State c . f j
Convinced that the happy effefis which may fce~erivcd from
ov: 1 ovrrrimcnt; must depend, in a confideraßle degree, on the
determination of the people to support the person entrusted with
the administration, I fluli rejoice to find that my acceptance :
has met with their approbation.
The promotion of domestic manufa&ures, will, ir. my con
ception, be among the firft confequencCs, which may naturally be
expected to rcfult from an energetic government.—For my fell",
having* equal regard for the prosperity ol the farming, trading,
and maiiufa&uring interests, I will only observe, that 1 cannot
conceive theextenfion of the latter (so far as it m ay afford employ,
ment to a great number of hands which would be otherwise
idle) can be detrimental to the former. On the contrary, the
concurrence of virtuous individuals, and the combination of.
economical societies to rely as much as poflible on the resources.
of our own country, may be produ&ive of great national ad
vantages, by establishing the habits of industry and economy,
The objects, thercfofe, of your institution are, in my opinion,
highly Commendable; ana you will permit me to add, gentle
men, that I propose to demonstrate the sincerity of my opinion,
on this fubjeft, by ths'uniformity of my pra£bc(,' in giving a deci
ded preference to the produce and fabrics of AmertC2, whensoe
ver it may be done without involving unreasonable cxpentts, or
very great inconveniences.
GEORGE WASHINGTON. *.
NATIONAL EXAMPLE.
A correspondent informs us that at the late court held for Ches
ter-county, the grand jury, from principles of patriotism, con
fined themfclves to Federal liquors, so that their expences du
ring the fitting of the court for two days, amounted ojily.to fix.
fhillingg each man ; whereas former grand juries used to
from 18 to 225. 6d.—An example highly worthy o [imitation !
i_
HINTS TO MANUFACTURER S.
THE practice of beginning works on a large and expensive plan
is attended with two verygreatevils. It preve nts prudent people
and people of small flocks, engaging in them. It renders such
works very hazardous adventures, for all new works are liable to
losses from want of experience in the owners and workmen ; and
an error committed in large works may prove fatal to a moderate
cap-tal, which would scarcely be perceived in similar works on a
small plan. In works not well understood, the losses which arise
from doing the business in a less perfett manner on a small scale,
arc small compared with those which attend committing errors in
woiks on a large stale ; and in all new works errors will
In this country where the value of money is high, it is almost im
poflible any profit ihou\A be a compensation for having so
sums out as ■ must be put into the expefelive proje&s. Most new
works have beeu begun too large in this country. If we built a
Slitting Mill, it was made fufficient to flit as much Iron in a weeH
as would fell in half a If we built a Glass Hou&, it was at
the expcnce of thousands, and calculated to cov*r all that part of
the country with glass, which was not covered by the house, Thrf
history of Potash works in New-Eugland ought to be a lesson to
every mannfafluring projector—The firft potash work in this
country is said to have been ere&ed at, or :v?ar what is now called
Belchertown in MaflachufettsT The proprietor began with build
ing an enormous sreat House, somewhat like a large New-England
Meeting-House, this building hefurmlh:d with as many larg~tubs
full bound with strong Iron hoops as could be conveniently placed
round the inside of the house, each tub so high and that a
person might as well clean the Augean stable as clean it out, fre.m
these his ley was to be drawn. In the meqn time people were
employed to cut out and burn the wood of the funoundingforeft*
to supply alhes, which indeed were procured in considerable
quantities, but as is usual in such attempts not proportioned to the
expence. By the time his allies were ready he had built in the
centre of his house, four furnacts, the fires of which were made
to meet at a point in one chimney which was to carry up the
Smoke, with an idea that he could make a more intense heat by
the meeting of the fires of four furnaces than by any single furnace.
The intention was, that the strong ley should be made to run in
small ftreamsfrom the surrounding vats into the place where the
fires of his four furnaces met, which were to form so intense a heat
as to constantly evaporate all the moisture and let the dry salts fall
into a bed or pan which was provided below to receive them.
These furnaces being duly dried and made hot, the fires were urged,
and the ley fuffered to run in small streams to'the place where it
was to be evaporated, but the instant the ley csme into this violent
heat the chimney blew up, and every thing near it fuffered by the
explosion* This taught the proprietor that he must boil his Icy,
and for that purpose he procured pans and went on to make more
potash which wasfent to market, but what with expences altogether
difproportioned to the business, and what with the errors he made
in prosecuting the proje&, the man broke and his potash works
went to ruin.
After this some gentlemen from Scotland set up the works in
SufHeld in Conne&icut, they brought out from Scotland every
utcnfil even to the tubs and erected a work some what in the
Meeting house ftilc', but being men of business and prudence they
continued their works perhaps without great loss, or great profit.
From that time to this theprojefts for making potaih have become
less and less expensive, till now some of the most profitable potash
works we have, were cre&ed at less than twenty dollars expence
exclusive of the Iron Kettles.
Begin manufacturing projects with small works and add what
by experience is found necessary.
LONDON, March 5.
This morning some dispatches were received
from Gibraltar, which were brought over in a
brig arrived at one of the western ports. A few
letters were also brought over, which contain
advices that the Emperor of Morocco is fitting
out his whole naval force; and that provifxon
veflels are failing almost daily for Constantino
ple to the relief of the Turks, who do not find
their supplies out of Asia so regular as formerly.
It is thought that Joseph will overturn the
third estate, or commons of Brabant, which per
sists in refuting him any supplies. The firft
estates have been fummoncd on particular busi
ness, and it is supposed that this is the objedl of
their convocation. This aflembly is fwprn to the
-most fcrypulous silence.
May 9. The King of Sweden has publiflied an
Ordinance, ordering four fact days to be held
during the present year. The critical situation
of affairs has induced his Majesty to judge if ne
ceflary. It concludes with the following words,
defervjng of being handed down to posterity,
rp.i cj: si v r z xci.for their dignity of fcntisnent, and patriotic
worth :
" May a pure and fincerc affection for our coun
try, strengthen tliofe ties of friend/hip, which
bind us to you, and you with one another ! fleet
ing is this fhortjterrellrial andlaborious life; and
with it vanishes that inequality of rank, which
Providence has placed between you and us".
March 10. On Tuesday a molt brilliant illumina
tion was set up at Kewby the command of her Ma
jelly. It was a molt superb pixTture, representing
a figure of Efculapius presenting a medallion ot
the King to Britain, by tliedefire'of Providence,
who was seated on the clouds, accompanied by
boys representing the arts and sciences, &c. the
work of Rebecca.
Among the various demonflrations of joy on
Tuesday evening, nothing more forcibly Ipoke
the loyalty of the subjeCt than the illumination
of the King's bench prison, where each long
mourning captive wip'd the tear of anguish, and
parted with his lull penny to speak his gratitude
to Heaven for the restoration of the King; a
butt of porter was given among the prisoners,
and loyal toalls were cheerfully quaffed, and in
the evening several well executed transparencies
made a pleasing appearance.
St. Paul's Cathedral is certainly to be illumi
nated the evening the King attends it: It will be
done by contraband will coil 2000 guineas.
Exti titl oj a letter j'vo>ll CtOpe/ihagen, R'larch 3.
" An attempt nas been made here to burn the
Ruffian fleet by an incendiary, one Capt. O'Bri
en, from Oftend, whole ship lying amongfl them,
i .lit 111 the ice, ir had been planned to let on fire,
—that a general conflagration might ensue.—
Providentially it has been difcovercd in tinie:
for, if it had succeeded, half the town would
have been blown np by the large quantity of gun
powder on board the Ruffian'men of war. He
had been bribed by a Swedish emiflkry, and was
to have received a reward of 40001. fterlino.
O'Brien is a-rclled, and is to take his trial; but
the villain who planned this horrid plot is un
fortunately escaped."
Yellerday upwards of 250 volumes of Eafl In
dia ti anfictions, 111 manuscript, were brought
from the India house to Weftiniijfter-hall, pre
parative to the commencement of the triai of
Mr. Hastings. Each of these books contains from
1500 to 3000 pages.
Jhe flnve trade, and the tefl atft, are a-rain to
be agitated in the course of this felfion. &
The Herald of yelterday, though it loudly
proclaims the preceding day, that the King was
incapable of holding the scepter, and Hill as bad
as he was in the height of his disorder, has
thought proper to discontinue that REBELLIOUS
theme, and give the lie to its own aflertions.
March ii. That befl and moll difficult of
all titles, a Patriot Minister, may now be fairly
given to Mr. Pitt. Who ever so ablv, or Co no
bly flood forward to rescue a country from des
peration ?
March 12. We are desired to mention, by
way of caution, that the judges have given'it as
their opinion, it is TRKASON to afiert either
orally or in print,that the King's mind is deranged,
or that he is not in a capacity to act as Sovereign
of the Britifii empire.
The Heral was burned 011 Tuesday at New-
Lloyd's and Will's Coffee houses at :he Change,
for the treasonable matter it contained 011 Satur
day lafl ; and the apology on Tuesday needs no
further comment, and they ought to be burned
by Jack Ketch, they speak for themselves. We
could have told[the public,.before they announced
it, that the Printer, tearing the jufl resentment
of government, intended to visit Ireland, and
Saturday's paper was his finale.
March .16. Admiral, Sir Charles Douglafs fell
down dead, in a fit of apoplexy, as he was enter
ing the aflembly-room at Edinburgh, a few days
ftnee. jhe purpose ot his journey to Scotland
was to take leave of his friends previous to his
departure for Halifax flation in America; to
which the Lords of the admiralty had appointed
him.
I he preparations in Prussia proceed with o-reat
alaciity. the Eniprefs is unwilling to flep for
ward and give a positive answer to "the demands
of the Polilh Diet, until lhe is become millrefs of
Bender, and the emperor is in pofleffion of Bel
grade. Every advice seems to allure us, that lhe
is playing a very deep game.
The Ruffians are fending large finns of money
to Constantinople, which they have found by pail
experience to be the moll certain way of feciiriii"-
a favorable }>eace with the Turkish ministry. °
The Spanish, Prussian, and other foreign am
bafladors, who had the honor of an audience with
His Majefly, on Wednesday lad, speak in the most
confirmed manner of his Majefly's happy recove
ry. He tock up the fubjetTt matter of their
last audiences with rite clearest recollection and
diicufled foreign affairs with such precision and
familiality as if he hadnot had the interruption
lVoin illness.
On Tuesday fe'nnight about midnight, or the
next morning about one o'clock, the iiiip London
of Vondon, Capr. Alexander Curling, a lieutc
in his Majefly's navy, from Cfcarlellon,
with rice, tobacco, indigo, and some specie,
was totally loft on the westernmost rocks of Scil
-Iy, and immediately went to pieces. The Capt.
thirteen hands, with Mrs. Riely, a widojv, a
passenger, and a native of Ramfgate, all perifli
ed, Joseph Turtle, carpenter, only saved.
T lie celebrated Marquis de Conflans, died sud
denly 011 Tuesday the 26th ult. while he was
walhing his hands.
Some short time prior to the Emperor's decla
ration against the Turks, the flower of his army,
to the amount of 40,000 men, were reviewed by
His Imperial Majesty, and General Laudaun, near
Vienna.
After the line had been paired with the usual
forms, &c. the troops were divided for a sham
fight; one half commanded by the Emperor, the
other by Gen. Laudaun. The armies had but
just separated, before the old v.eteran Laudaun,
with tiie eyes of Argus, discovered, and secured
the advantage of some high ground from which
he had a perfect view of the Emperor's move
ments : The general instantly gave the command
of this advantageous fpotto an able officer; while
he, with a detachment of his army, filed off, and
took post undercover of a woody hill.
The firing had not continued an hour before
the Emperor, who lay detached from his main
,body, was surrounded by Laudaun's party, when
the old General, riding up to the Emperor, with
much gallantry said, " he could not believe, but
that his Majesty had designed. him the honor of
taking him prisoner upon whichthe Emperor
replied with much good humour—" That the
circuniftance had fully proved that he was but a
young soldier ; buthe had some conljDJation left,
■11 knowing that he was not the only crowned
head, who had bowed to the superior abilities of
the firft General in the world."
Our correspondent at Versailles sent us the
subsequent article, dated Feb. 27, received in
London this monjing: The King is fliut up eve
ry morning to run over the numberless publica
tion which appear ; and 110 doubt he fees with
pleafare, how the French support and refpedt
him. They report him to have made the follow
ing speech : " All things considered, I think the
Liberty of the Press producer more truths than
lies ; and niuft therefore, notM r ithftandingmany
evils, be protecled to favor the good that results
from it."
Her Majesty of France,who through the course
of our Most Gracious Sovereign's late illness, has
sympathised with his royal consort with a feeling
which did honor even to the dignity of her high
station, proposes to give a grand gala at court,
the moment the official accounts arrive there of
his recovery ; all the foreign Ambafladors, with
the principal of the French, and all the English
nobility now residing in Paris, are invited.
PHILADELPHIA, May 13.
WAR IN THE EAST INDIES.
Extract of a letter from Madras, dated Sept. 28.
" Since writing the foregoing, I have to in
form you, that hostilities are once more com
menced between the English and Tippo Saib
(the late Hyder Ally s foil) who, from the time
the Englilh firft fettled upon the coast, to this
day, has been their molt inveterate enemy, hav
ing always declared thein the ravagers of the
country. He isallowed tobe the greateftmilitary
genius of the East, and commands the preateft
army of any of the eastern Princes. During the
late Carnaticwar, the English had every thing to
fear from so formidable an enemy. Hyder hini
lelf coiild command an army of 200,000 men,
while his son at the head of a numerous army
over-run the whole Carnatic, and burst like a
torrent upon their enemies, taking some of the
most capital places. The great pains which
Hyder always took to train his son up to avenge
his country's wrongs, does him honor. That
Prince has always declared his predilection for
the trench. Since our arrival, a detachment has
been sent to the northward, to reinforce the
English in that quarter. A battle since has taken
place, and two battalions of the Company's troops
have been entirely cut off, the English have how
ever, lome advantage 011 their fide, as they have
taKen two of Tippo Saib's forts.
It is to be hoped, fays a correspondent, that the
committee lately appointed to ascertain the debt
o the United States, will not forget to report the
debts of each State to its citizens. These it is
laid, are equal to the whole debt of the United
In the year i3jo, it will probably be as incredi
ble, that the citizens of the United States (with
11 ' P P e ns- "Tf nfe resources for manufac
of aU klnds ) ""Ported their cloathing from
a country 3000 miles distant from them, as it
now is, that some of the inhabitants of Maryland
once imported flour for the use of their tables
from the city ot London. The books of an emi
"aTd Tw T'°f- the last into
a rime rn ' T ™ f tlle Cafe > *
vT 1 • 'w f n . thac State was considerably ad
vanced,,! population and refinement. Europe
ias in her days of barbarism exhibited similar
folly The Swedes once imported
their vegetables from Holland.
PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of tit
UNITED STATES.
Wednesday, May 13, 1789.
Mr. Thatch pr presented a petition from the
merchants of Portland, in the State of Mafia,
chufetts—the prayer of which was, thatthe pro
posed duty 011 m.-.lafles, ihould not be eftablifted
by law.
The House then formed into a committee of
the whole, 011 the import; bill.
China, earthen, ltone ware, looking glailes
and brushes, were added to the lift of enumera
ted articles, at 7 1-2 per cent, ad valorem.
Salt petre was added to the articles exempted
from import;.
Mr. Parker introduced a proportion for a
clause to be added to the bill, by which an im
port: of ten dollars should be aileiled on every
Have imported into the United States.
This occafioneda debate ; in opposition, it Was
said, " that it is a nn>ft unequal and partial tax
and peculiarly opprelfive to some of the fouchern
States, and is so odious that it will not be fub
initted to without grievous complaints it will
be considered as a (lire(ft tax, which considering
the present ideas of the people will be highly
impolitic."
In support of the proposed import: it was ur
ged, " That the predominant sentiment of the
people is in favour of a tax prohibitory of the
importation of slaves. Congress mult juftify this
sentiment, otherwise, it will be considered that
we mean tacitly to countenance the Have trade;
on the principles of policy and humanity, ahea'
vy duty ought to be imposed—this will conduce
to the advantage of thcfe very States that conft
dere their interest so deeply involved in the
question—their prosperity being intimately con
netted with an abolition of slavery The bnfi.
ness is difgraceful and pernicious in a political
and moral view, and tends to diminish the rela
tive strength and importance of those States where
it moll generally obtains."
Mr- 1 ark l r withdrew his motion, in order to
introduce a separate bill providing for this tax.
The article of Hemp it was proposed Ihould be
fti uckout of the lift ; but after some observations
the question being taken, it was loft.
A petition of Jo h n Fi tc h , relative to Steam
Boats, was presented. Adjourhed.
Thursday, May 14.
A mellage from the Senate was received, in
forming the House that they had appointed a
committee to join with a committee on their part,
for the purpose of determining upon the number
ot nev fpapers it will be proper for the members
of both Houl'es to be furnifiled with at the public
expence.
A petition from A. M< Lean,'of the city of
New-York, Printer, was read, offering his fer
% ices to Congress in the line of his profeffion, to
per form any part of the printing business for the
United States.
Petition of Mr. Morse was committed.
Petition of the inhabitants of New-Terfey was
referred to the committee of elections.
Petition of John Fitch was referred to afpe
cial committee.
A memorial from the Distillers of Philadelphia,
upon the iiibjecft of the proposed duties on fo
reign Rmn and Molafles, was read.— It ftatedthat
t ie 1 uty on Molafles was in their opinion too high,
compared with the duty on foreign rum.
In Committee of the whole House,
The Import: Bill was relumed, and having pro
ceeded as far as the clause providing for alraw
back on goods re-shipped, on which the Impost
ia >ten P a ? d > blank refpecfling the time al
lowed was filled with twelve, and the sum to be
retained, from the Impost paid in such cafe, one
pr. cent. 7
To counter-balance the loss of revenue which
would anfe from the drawback on Salt, the three
following articles, exported to foreign States,
were dutied at five cents each.
I? ri i e i d P r - quintal.
Pickled Fish, pr. barrel.
Salted Provisions, do
ProP ° fed r °" c P" tic "" r
tioria'ii^ ADI | S0 - N y° fe ' and ma de some obferva
ooTnrT" / of adopting them, and
that fl' ° Ut -° y t * le ' r P er:n iaoiisconfequences
m t motlon was withdrawn.
to be '-lii!! 1 T*V of , Mar >' land > introduced a clause
for the nil °r e J m P°ft Bill which provided
n K ° f a (Ilrc ount of pr. cent.
Merchant * leS lmp ° fed on Goods > Wares, and
inp- L'l? 17 : e ™P. ortedinAl nerican veffelsbelong-
States to Cltl 2ens, or a citizen of the United
as i'i' T F °PP°'" ed the addition of this clause,
nation W encre r fe shef he wei ght of that difcrimi
which alr.r ( orei & n dipping and Americaii,
ZZfy bo / e Sufficiently heavy on the
ready o-nn conceived that they had al
of «Mr. Sherman, upon the general principle of opposition to
drawbacks, and to prevent a diminution of the Revenue, which he
norehended from the proposition ihould it be adopted, thought
that it would be more eligible to enhance the duties on goods im
ported in foreign vefiels.
Mr Sylvester observed, That as these drawbacks will place
the Treasury of the United Spates in a very aukward and uncertain
i taation, by taking away with one hand what is put in with the
other! he' null be opposed to the measure.
Mr. Lawxince was in favor of the daufe—He pointed out
a number of inllances in which it would prove fahitary—The
(jifcrimination which the State of New-York had made, had pro
ouccd a very sensible encreafe in her (hipping.
Mr. Wadsworth : Port charges, Sir, are against this country
all foreign ports: The American (hipping pays from 50 to 100
pr. cent, more in those ports than foreigners pay in ours : We cer
tainly, iniuftice to our'elves, ought to place this matter more on
a par; and as the proportion befoiethe Houl'e will conduce in some
<!;•>re" to that object, I wi(h it may be adopted.
Mr. [Jlckson : I took it for granted, Sir, that this fubje£l
of adilcrimination 011 tonnage, had been fufficieutly attended to
_[ thought Sir, that the interest of the southern governments,
had been fully burthened to cnceurage the northern navigation.
Sir the (ituation of Great-Britain and America, are quite diffe
rent—That nation, situated oil a little island, has need of all the
encouragement possible to encreafe her navy, and extend her com
mit—How is it in America ?—We Sir, are a nation of farmers,
agriculture is the great support ot this country, on that we rn 11 ft
depend—but Sir, how is it neglecfed !* how is it iacrificed in fa
vour of navigation and manufactures.
Thispropofition Sir, tends to theleflVning of ourrevenue, and
encourages (hip-building at that expence, as this drawback is
taicen dire&ly from it—This, Sir, will operate mod unjustly and
oppressively, for the revenue paid by the southern States, will be
as a bounty to the northern (hipping—What Sir, may we not
expect—a dry tax will come next —this is a moll odious
difcrimination —Our agriculture and produce, are already fuffi
cicntly burthened—a navy is but a secondary consideration in
comparison wi|h agriculture—But admitting it to be of ever so
great importance, it is already fufficicntly encouraged—This will
prevent the Ihipsof foreign nations, from coming to our ports—
we have not fufficient of our own—What is not to be apprehend
ed ? let. gentlemen but consider, how the States Of Georgia,
South and North-Carolina, mud be affe&ed and injured—We are
willing to give a preference to our brethren to the ctfftward : but
for God's fake do not reft the whole of that encouragement on us—
we arc but children yet—do not require that we Ihould run be
fore we can walk.—l call upon the judice of this House, that we
may not have our essential inrereft, the agriculture of the southern
States, totally facrificed—l hope Sir, the proposition will not be
adopted.
Mr. Gerry observed in answer to Mr. Jackson, that
Great-Britain is justly tenacious of her navigation laws ; As
to their salutary and extensive operation, (he owes the flourishing
condition ot her agriculture and commerce—navigation gives a
fpringto agriculture, to indudry and manufactures ; and the most
effe&ual method to promote the encreafe and sale of the southern
produce, is to encourage and extend the American (hipping.
Mr. Bland was opposed to the clause, as it would operate de
monstratively to the lessening of the revenue—which he endeavor
ed to (hew by dating the following indance, as an example, viz.
A velTel of 300 tons will pay —fay 300 Dollars tonnage one
hundred thouland pounds value in gor ds, may be imported in a
(hip• of that burthen—the impoll on (uch a cargo at 5 per cent.
is £.5000 ; a drawback of 10 per cent, on the ium is £'.500
which will prove a very great d< du&ion from the revenue.
Mr. Smith (of Maryland) dated a variety of fa£b, refpefting
the difference of the impoiitions on foreign and American vef
(cls in foreign countries.
Mr.LiVERMORE—I was, Sir,in favor of a discrimination be
tween 01' own (hipping, and that of foreign nations, as a wife
and just encouragement to our own navigation ; but I cannot
content to the proposition betore the House, as it would operate
very unequally against those parts of the Union who arc obliged
to import their goods chiefly in foreign bottoms.
Mr. Lawrence obfeivtd, that notwithdandmg it had been
. ' that the agricultural interest was tacrificcd, yet in his opi
nion, much had been done for its encouragement, as was evident
from recurring to the lift of dutied articles in the bill The
proposed claiHc will encrcaie our navigation, on which depends
"i a great measure the encouragement of agriculture : It will ope
rate to decrease the aggregate amornt of the duties, which gen
tlemen contend aretoo high : It will have a twofold operation, as
» will benefit the merchant,while it encourages the (hip-buildm
branch : Merchants (hould beconfidered as manufacturers—they
are eminently so, as contractors and proprietors in fhipbuildin^.
nelofsof revenue apprehended, is mconfiderable, compared
jvith the great, solid and lading advantages so be derived from
e encreafe of our navigation and feainen.—l am heartily, Sir,
mtavorof the proposed clauff. ,
Mr. Boudinot—As I came, Sir, from an agricultural State,
1 mi not be thought ieafonable, that I Ihould advocate measures
at may contravene the farming iutercft : It has been my opini
on ttom the begining, that tl.e proposed duties are too high,
asthev will operate dirc&ly reverse from the d sign in
impo ing them they will defeat the objedt of revenue, by ho!d
ing out temptations and inducements to fmugghng, which all
e powers of old and rigorous governments could no°t prevent.
rlaf r 8 ! naturall y l"d to the adoption of the proposed
tile, for as the fubjeCl cis revenuearrived to this advanced pe
on aV ? mc P lan that will produce a general and fcvlible dnnmuti
ne duties, will be thought more eligible, than to descend
pa ticular articles ; this proposition is in point.
0 not therefore wish its adoption, meerly as an encourage
in It, ° navl S at, on, although a very eflential point—but as it will
thc r « enue alld promote agriculture and
. IChouldtrotbeirifavoiirof the clause, did it appear to mc that
jt• ave "neqral operation : the general idea is, that the
l a S re to ° —I his sentiment, I find is entertained by the
nm mcrcamile charafurs-I have r.ken pains to acquire the mod
ln,or j mat '°" u P on the fubjeft, and from the whole, am
nue ua( kd, that a dcduCti. 11 will be in favour of the rtve
asl he f n", h 7, n Slates particularly benefited by this clause,
10 n out the strongest inducements to American fhip
and Lin"' . 6 P rodl,ce ' rom foreign countries to those States,
Tl' "\ r£ ' y encrcafe our domellic navigation.
u-Sin. V'l P rc y cnt mu AShng, as it will interest the American*
« ofT, a '" a K c "f it, to be vigilcnt,in deleting brea.h
ie aw ' and thus they will become wat nmen over fo
dedma' 31 fi uard i a n s ol the revenue.—.-The gentleman ad
bo M dih y morc " bfi;l «" f 'ns, and concluded by faying, that he
°PM the proposition would be acceded to.
Mr. s"iij ACKSON ' Mr. Tucker, Mr. Parker, Mr. Seney and
v "te be NtK! t N ' f f ver;, ' 1 y spoke upon the qncftion ; when the
Wank J ng ,i. ?!,' pafi " l ll,e affirmative—qo to 16—The
T ? Wastl *n filled up witl, ,o per cent.
chair c "!' ITnitlee tbrn rofc—and the Sot akpr having refum<*d the
md' !n J CVCr , an ' rrldn ><nt i and insertions of'the bill were
third '' W2S ordc,cd to be engrolfcd for a
commm^ 0 / 50 ''' ''''' eommittee appointed to confer with a
on ,h°T 1! Stnat "' on tbr d fa S r '- e,n 6 t! "- lwo
'heSe a e 'J' "P or,,d ' that Ihe committee of
f'nt JhA n" thrm ' ttla ttiicSenate would for the pre
l^Hobf' C f p K ' under the fame ilvle and title that
Reprcfcntauvcs had .dopud,
MjcumcJ.
Friday, May i£.
Mr. Bland from the committee appointed on the part of the
Houle, to confer with a committee of the Senate, upon devi
ing an arrangement for the patting and completing bills &c.made
a report, which was read.
This report being lengthy and important, it was voted that on
Monday next, the House would rcfolve itfelf into a committee
ot the whole, for the purpose of taking it into consideration—
Upon motion of Mr. Thatcher, it was ordered, that 100 co
pies be printed for the infpe&ion of the members.
A committee consisting of Mr. Sylvester, Mr. Wynkoof
and Mr. Smith, of South-Carolina, was appointed to confer
with the committee of the Senate, upon the fubjeft of news-pa
pers—l he fame committee was also authorised to receive propo
ials trom Printers, for performing the public business in that line
Petitions from John Swain and Francis Childs, and
Samuel and John Loudon, Printers, were read—and refer
red to the above committee—also the petition of A. M'Lean,
read yeilerday. '
from Lieute nant Hinds, of the corps of Invalids,
ot Mjfiacnufetts, was presented by Mr. Partridce.
Another petition from the inhabitants of Ncw-TerfcV, on
'r u" t'i J r lr eletlion of Reprefentativ.s, for the Conerefs
ol the United States, was read, and referred to the committee
ot elections.
Mr. Sherman aflced leave of absence for ten days, which was
granted. '
Mr. Boudinot moved that the House fliould now come to a
vote 1 hat on Tuefdav next, the House would resolve itfelf into
a committee of the whole, to take into consideration the arrange
ment of the Executive Department. Which was done.
Mr. White introduced a resolve of the legislature of the State
ot Virginia, by which a tender is made to Congrefsof ten miles
choose' 3117 Pa " ° f thatState ' which th «y™ay think proper to
The impost bill as engroffedwas then read; but an amendment
being moved and seconded, it was after some debate recommit
ed—The Speaker then left the chair, and the House formed
into a committee of the whole—the amendment provided for
extending the duty on distilled spirits, Jamaica proof, and all
other fpn its imported from any other country whatever.—This
amendment being adopted, the committee rose when the fame
wa« accepted by the House, and the bill was palled to be engrof-
Mr. Madison then introduced a claufeto be added to the bill
providing lor a limitation to the existence of the aft—This brought
on a very interesting debate, which coutinued without coming to
anydecifion, till the adjournment.
NEW-YORK, MAY 16.
Yesterday, agreeably to the Constitution, the Senate of the Uni
ted States was clafled.
The Claffcs were determined by I.ot, and are as follows, viz.
Firjl Clafs —-Jor Two Years.
Tristram Dalton, Georce Read,
Oliver Elsworth, Charles Carroll,
John Elmer, Wi l l i am Grayson,
William Maclay,
Second Oafs —-jor Four Years.
Paine Wincate, Richard Henry Lee,
Caleb Stronc, Pierce Butler,
WilliamPatterson, William Few.
Richard Basset t.
Third Clafs-—for Four Years,
JohnLangdon, r John Henry,
Williams. Johnson, Ralph Izard,
Robert Morris, James Gunn.
The moit adopted on this occafton was as follows :
A Committee of the Senate was chofento divide the whole num
ber into Three Classes.—Three Lots, marked No. 1, No. a, and
No. 3, were put into a Box—a Member from each Class was ap
pointed to draw one of the Lots—and the Lot drawn determined
the Rotation of the Class to which such number belonged.
Yesterday Mr. F. P. Van Berckel had an audience of The
PRESIDENT of the United States of America, in which
he delivered l|il Credentials of Resident from Their High
Mightinesses the States General of the United Ne
therlands, having been introduced by the Hon. John Jay,
Secretary of State for the Department of foreign affairs.
\ efterday the Vice President of the United States, the
Heads of Departments, the Foreign Mintflers, the Judges of the Su
preme (ourt of this State, togetiicr with a numerous Circle of Citi
zens and Foreigners, vifitedTHE PRESIDENT at his House.
Last Thursday evening, His Excellency THE MINISTER of
FRANCE, gave a Ball to THE PRESIDENT of the UNITED
STATES, which was uncommonly elegant, in refpeft both to the
company and the plan of the entertainment. As a compliment
to our alliance with France,there were two sets of Cotillion Dancers
incomplete uniforms ; one set in that ot France, and the other
in Blue and Buff: The ladies were dressed in white, with Ribbands,
Bouquets and Garlands of Flowers, answering tothe uniforms of the
Gentlemen.—THE VICE-PRESIDENT—many Members of the
Senate, and House of Representatives of the United States THE
GOVERNOR of this State—THE GOVERNOR of the Western
Teritory, and other chara&ers of diftin&ion were prcfent.
A PHILOSOPHIC SCRAP.
THE city of New-York, furnifhes a just Epitome of the in
habitants of no inconsiderable part of the globe. It mud be a
grateful idea to a liberal mind, to observe such a variety of people
collect.: d from different nations ; harmonizing in all points that
are essential to the happiness and welfare of the whole. The
spirit of toleration, that has always chara&erifed the citizens of
this State, the various methods taken to render subsistence easy
and certsiri to the honest and indubious, have operated as a pow
erful means to draw to a center, people diverfified in their attach
ments, prejudices and manners.—The eye of the curious, maybe
'ratified by tracing the peculiai ities of those who came from dif
ferent countries, so far as to difllnguifh from what original they
sprang; while the eye of philosophy is delighted in observing
the accommodating spirit, and liberal views, that are gaining an
ascendency over localfeelings and opinions.—Those iharp points
of peculiarity, that have rcnd< red the people of different States
and nations hurtful or disagreeable to each other are wearing off.
At the fame time, they retain a fufficient degree of former at
tachments and customs, to (hew that they have not loft all love or
pride for their native country, or that they wifti to deny from
whence they came.
HINT TO THE IMPORTERS.
A cori efpondent, who obferv ed the cuzens on Sunday last leav
ingthe several churches after service, was extremely sorry to find
the ladies so incommoded by the rain. This inconvcnience was
occasioned by the small size of most of the Umbrellas that are at
present in use. In several instances he observed, that a consider
able part of the hats and bonnets of the ladies were without any
(helter against the rain, as the Umbrellas, from their fmallnefs,
were inefficient to cover them. It is therefore hoped, that the
next importation of umbrellas will be of a larger size. No per
son who is fond of feeing variety and qlegancc of taste, can wilh
to deprive the ladies of so fair an opportunity as they now find
n the extensive dimensions of their hats. But itis greatly to be
feared, uniefs some better expedient is fallen upon to secure them
against rain than the present umbrellas can afford, that they will
be obliged to curtail the one to the size of other.
Mr. Fenno,
The following ODE was written andinfcribed to General Washing
ton, ajkort time after thefurrender of York-Town,
The VISION.
'TWAS in a beauteous verdant shade,
Deck'd by the genius of the glade,
With Nature's fragrant stores ;
Where Fairy Elves light trip'd the green—
Where Silvan Nyffiphs were often seen
To strew the sweetest flowers.
Lethean air from Tertipe's vale,
Wafted an aromatic gale,
And lull'd my foul to reft : *
I saw, or musing feem'd to fee,
The future years of Deftmy, *
That brighten'd all the Weft.
The Muse array'd in heav'nly grace*
Call'd up each a&or in his place
Before my wondering eyes ;
The magic of the Aonian Maid,
The world of Vision wide difplay'd,
And bid the scenes arise.
I saw great Fabius come in state,
I law the British Lion's fate,
The Unicorn's despair;
Conven'd in Secrecy's Divan,
The Chiefs contriv'd the fav'rite plan,
And York-Town clos'd the war.
Nor could the dazzling triumph charm
The friends of faction, or its rage t
. Fierce to divide, to weaken and subvert;
I saw the Imps of Discord rife—
Intrigue, with little arts, surprise,
Delude—alarm—and then the State defcrt.
My foul grew Tick of human things—
I took my Harp, and touch'd the firings,
Full often set to woe;
Conjur'd the gentle Muse to take
,The power of future knowledge back—
No more I wifti'd to know.
Rash Mortalflop ! She cried with zeal,
One fecrct more I mud reveal,
That will renew your prime :
These storms will work thewifh'd for cure*
And put the State in health so pure,
As to resist old Time.
The free born mind will feel the force,
That Justice is the only source
Of Laws concise and clear;
Their native rights, they will relign
To Men, who can those rights define,
And every burthen bear.
The SACRED COMPACT, in a band
Of brothers, shall unite the land,
And Envy's felf be dead ;
The Body one, and one the foul,
Virtue shall animate the whole,
And FABIUS be the head.
Rous'd from the enthusiastic dream^
By the foft murmur of a stream,
That glided thro' the meads,
I tun'd my lyre to themes refin'd,
While Nature's gentle voices join'd,
To ftng the glorious deeds.
When lo ! HIMSELF, the CHIEF rever'd,
In native elegance appear'd,
And all things Cmil'd around,
Adorn'd with every pleasing art,
Enthron'd the Sov'reign of each hearty
I saw the HERO crown'd.
New-Jersey, May 1789.
Mr. Fenno.
IN answer to the decently-expressed interrogation of
in American in yourlaft paper, Your former
.orrefpmaent begs leave to observe, that from Custom or Cou r ti
i y the title of Excellency is given (he believes in all the 'Countries
'I Europe) to Ambassadors; and, therefore, he tuas apbrehenkve
jUt Fo reicners might be induced to consider the PRESIDENT of
he United States, if denominated by the fame appelhtwn, upon a
evelwttha subordinate fublic officer. Your former Cor
espondent neither afTeited, that " any Officer under the Ameri
can Government, in the Diplomatic or in any other Line is
1 entitled to the style or title of Excellency nor is he an Advo
ate Jor titles diflinfl from the defenptive ones conferred by the Con
stitution. But as he conceived it would not be prafticableto
prevent the People of any European Country, where an American
ft.mbaliador (hallrefide, from ftylinghim, as they do all Ambaffa-
Excellency ; the principal objefl was to obviate a
soluble confufion of ideas in Foreigners, who might not be ex
tremely capableof discriminating in regard to the relative pow
ers and functions of Perfoni holding Offices under the Ameucan
-overnment.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
The Gazette of the United States is devoted to
he cause of Truth and the Public Good ; and Speculations wrote
with propriety, candor, and decency, which have that objefl, and the
;eneral Welfare for their basis, will always meet with a ready in
ertion.—Our two Correspondents upon the fubjefl of Titles, came
vithin this description, and their favors merit our thanks.
Future Communications from the person who favored us with
he beautiful Ode inferjed this day, will be gratefully received.
PRICE-CURRENT.
NEW-YORK.
_ . New-York Currency.
Superfine Flour, - - 44 f. per barrel.
Common do. - _ ,~r
Wheat, - - - |f
Country refined Bar-Iron, - 30/. perC. wt.
Do. Bloomery, - - 2 g/
Pig-iron, - _ 9 1'
r-Afh, - - - 44/. per ton.
Pearl-Affi, . - 4 6/
Pimento, . - 1/8. a i_/g. per lb.
Chocolate, - . - nd. a 1 3 d.
Cocoa, . . -70s.
Pork Connecticut, - - j 2 f
Muscovado Sugar, . s of. a 70/ perewt.
Jamaica Spirits, - 4/0. a 4/9. per gallon.
Windward I (land Rum, - %y. a A
Country do. - 2/7.
PUBLIC SECURITIES.
Final Settlements, " - 5f
Indents, - - 2_f~-THE T'A-TS LE T. No. X.
" Faff fort may find a mail horeft, but it field am leaves
him fib." "> ,
[The two following numbers, reletting party disputes, contain
the lubttance ot an epistle adiirelltd to a young friend, who
\vifhed to form rules, that might dire£Ui« condufl in life, viz.j
NO fubjeft, perhaps, can be considered in
more different lights, than that of faction. It
may be declaimed againlt, as the moll monstrous
evil, that ever convulsed or overtitrned States.
It can be proved to the highest degree of demon
stration, to have occalioned more frequently,
the total loss of morals 11 individuals, and to
have produced more calamitous effects in society,
than any other circv.mlinjice that can be named.
On the other hand, we can hardly conceive
how a government can exist, with any vigor or
reputation, without the forcible influence of par
ty spirit. It is one of the main springs of politi
cal motion, wliofe elastic power gives the .noil:
eilential wheels of,the machine, their force and
direction. It has been the prime mover, in ori
ginating some of tlie 11:0 ft celebrated eftabliih
ments, that are at this day admired for their
excellence, or effeemed for their, utility. To
draw a jult comparison between the nfeful and
pernicious conl'equences, that flow from faction
would be impracticable. We should, after the
fairelt investigation, remain at a lofb in fixing
precise limits, so as to determine all the cases
in which the" good or evil preponderated.
My view, in entering upon the fubjeft, is to
mark out such a plan of conduct, as an honest,
judicious individual would be apt to observe re
speCting party dlfpurcs. And here again it will
be difficult to prescribe definite rules, i here ma v,
however, be feme conclulions, tolerably just
and fatisfaCtory. Were a man only to conl'ult
his personal tranquility, and the dignity and in
fluence of his character iii a general view he
would doubtless refrain from taking any part in
the discords and tumults which agitate society.
But there are ltrongreafons that counteract a dis
position to neutrality. Few men are so situated
in life, as not to be greatly dependent on a par
ticular set of connections. It is almoftimpoflible,
therefore, for any man, to ast in every instance,
npon principles of ftrift propriety, independent
of circumflances, that are extriniic from the re
al merits of Ihe queflion. By obfervinga line of
conduct totally just and impartial, he would often,
but not always, fuftai-i a greater incosvtniencej
in losing the good will of his particular friends'
than he would derive benefit, by being character
ized in the general eflimation of mankind, as a
person of moderation and impartiallity. " For
thofe,who continue neutre in any civil diffentions
under the denomination of moderate men, who
keep aloof and wait quietly in order to follow
the fortune of the prevailing fide are gene
rally stigmatized with the oppi obious name of
tim'prvefs, and consequently neither esteemed
nor tiitfted by either party."
In this dilemma, what advi« would be proper
to give a young adventurer, jolt entering a ca
reer of'political lite ? Shall we warn hijn against
taking any part, in tlie diflentions of the times !
No !—>hall we tell him, to declare himfelf a
decided partizan, iu every difpure, that occurs
in public affairs >. No ! It would be .eq.iifTte to
exhibit to his view, the nature of several kinds
of cortroverfies, and fliew him, in a general way,
how far he may fafely venture, and where he
should come to a Hand. In attempt, we
could not, however, fix exact boundaries. Part
of his conduct must be governed by his iudgment
and integrity, in acting,as theo-cafion may make
eligible. For although the extremes, either way,
may be so obviously marked out, as to render
precise directions practicable ; yet as we ap
proach towards that central point, where the
lines of right and wrong meet, we cannot alwavs
determine beforehand, where one will end, and
the other be« in. There is a certain space, where
the lines so run into eadiother, that thc'fhades
of both are blended. We can only observe, that
under a consideration of all circumltaiicefe in
this intermediate traCt, a person may act, 3S his
convenience may direst. if he commits an error,
i: will be f'» immaterial, as will not be very dan'
gerous "or difHdnorable.
>ome cjueftions of so important a nature are
agitated, that the community at large are inter
efced in the dccifton. When the form qf govern
nient is proposed to be altered ■ or when fyflcms
are to be introduced, that afferft every part of a
nation, no person should cor.fider himfelf an in
different speCtator, in the fcerte. It is the ditty
of every man to take" his Tide and make known
his ferinrriehta, He should not ast with duplici
ty, undffr the itlea of beingtlie fiiendof all par
ries. No- fliouid In's conduct be mean and over
bearing towards his "opponents f 0111 a defti e of
populai Jty in that party, which he advocates. IJe
should, in no poifible instance, deny Iris princi
ples ; but i> is neither modest rtrp- udent, in all
fi'tt&tidßS to declare them. In a large company
<<; his antagonists, an unfolicired "declaration of
his sentiments v/ill have no-good cfeft. It will
be more likely to procure enemies thali conver'ts ,
J lis pcportment fliculd be equally civil, as if
they -were all of the fame way of thinking. In
this manner,he avoids the charge of being a time
ferver, promotes the influence of his party ; and
as far as that is right, tjie intercll of his coun
try. Before he has c hoi'en his fide, it must be
prefum ed, he has deliberately weighed the fub
jedt, and that he a efts from aConvicftion of duty ;
or at any rate, that he does not eilentially atft
contrary to it. His confcicnce should bear liim
witness, that he is serving his country as v.xll as
his party.
But if the young adventurer, after the most
mature examination, feels incompetent to deter
mine, which party has the right of die queltion,
liowfliall he govern himfelf.' ohall he follow the
iteps of his moll intimate acquaintance, on whose
advice he can bell rely ; and whole friendship
he most needs ? Perhaps even this will not be al
together attainable, as aflociates, equally dear
to him in private life, have ranged tlienlfelves
on different fides. He is nowin adelicate/ituation.
1 pity hint with all my heart. Those very friends
and allociates, who are taking different parrs,
will, before the <Jifpute is over, become invete
rate enemies. The bands of private friendlhip
pre seldom lufficient to Hand the Ihock of party
hnimofities. The cmbarrafled youth, after all,
will b? obliged to judge for himfelf. To aid his
decisions, in a cafe, where from inexperience or
incapacity, he is at a loss how to determine the
hierits of the qucllion, he Ihould carefully efti-
Snare the characters who are engaged, on the
opposite fides. Wherever he finds the most sub
stantial information, and the greatest weight of
[private reputation, it is a tolerable presumption,
that that party is the bell and will finally prevail.
Men, who have the greatest advantages in gain
ing information, and the strongest inducements
to make an lioneft application of their knowledge,
will, in the general run of affairs, carry their
point and establish their cause. But unfortunate
ly even this resource may fail our youthful in
quirer. It is not impoflible he may find the vir
tuous and sensible so nearly divided, that he may
be utterly at a loss which fide has the bell fup
poit. W hen the ill'ue of the matter is fubjeift to
so much chance and contingence, and truth so
difficult to ascertain, a good man will scarce
know how to proceed. As a general rule howe
ver, I think he had better attach himfelf to one
fide or the other, than to remain in a state of
neutrality.
Having taken a pofwion, it is to be hoped, our
young friend wDI defend it, with honelty and
firmnefs. It should not be required of him to
become a bad man, in order to become a
politician. Has he been accustomed to view cer
tain acrions as mean, vicious or inconliftent ; let
him still view them so. Has he, in times pall,
lelt confidence restraining liini, when he was
tempted to do wrong ; lie need not now throw
oil those rellraluts. Has he formerly considered
veracity, honesty and candor as ufeful or amia
ble ; 1 »ntreat lliat he would not nowneglecTc or
disown them. His personal friends may be fele(fl
ed from either party, and Ihould consist of such
characters as are most refpetftable and worthy,and
as bell accord with his particular humour. There
is an exception to this indulgence, when the
matter in dispute is to be decided by arms. In
such f tuation a person ihould restrain his inter
view v itli those opposed to him, until the con
tell is over. The intercourse of private fiiend
fhipwill iubjecTt him to the odium and fulpicion
of those in concert with him ; and will diminifn
Us zeal and exertions in favor of a cause, which
by his actions, he supposes to be j nil.
If I may be allowed to proceed any further,
in advising him, I would even expostulate with
him, never to place himfelf at the head of a par
ty. it will infallably destroy his happiness,
and blunt all his feelings of natural rectitude.
He will bring every tiling to the llandard of his
party views. No virtue or talents can secure a
man against his ill will and persecution, who is
on the opposite fide. No deformity of character
will difqualify those. who are engaged in his in
te.r.^.L' che y re wrong in every thing else he
wnl infill upon it, they are right, in that in
ltance._ They cease to be knaves or fools, who
fly to him for sanctuary. He acquires an habit of
making declarations, which he does not believe
are true ; and engagements, which lie does not
mean to fulfil.
Notwithstanding I have aliened that, in all
clifputes which concern the public at large, no
man Ihould Hand neuter, yet thfere are often in
ferior or subordinate parties in the community,
which, it may be optional, whether a man joins
or not : If hearts prudently he will seldom enter
with virulence into such contentions; aild if he
arts conjeientioufly,his services will be toocold and
circumspeCt to gain him popularity with any party.
In all unimportant altercations,a benevolent man
will have a view to reconciliation, rather than vic
tory. Perhaps inforne inftances,by takintr a parti
cular fide, and conducting in a mild conciliatory
manner, he may reconcile the difference, and
bnug the parties into a union of ineafures.
Whenever he can do'tliis, it is a most meritorious
action. Many difpvJres are so trivial, that nnlefs
a person Itronglv participates of party spirit, he
car.not feel inie'rpftediii the event. Every rt ..
fob concerned in them, fullains a greater
by the loss of general influence in focietv,
lie gains advantages from the friendlhip of hu
partizans. It may evenbedoubted whether those
who are advocating the fame cauf», do not h> rc '
ality view him with less refped. than if he ] la j
let the matter alone. This is a difficult' point to
decide, and brings the discernment to a critical
ted. 1 know very few persons, noted for partv
contention, that have ever acquired the general
confidence and cftecm of their fellow men. It is
often a very certain method of loiing ufeful ir
fluence. Men, from the bell of principles, may
shun each fide of a controversy ; not fcecaufe
they seek the favor, or fear the censure of either,
but becanfe they despise the actions of both!'
from the whole, this conaJufion may be drawn •
that in any great and general question, no inhs!
bi;ant of the country where it operates should
hide his sentiments or deny his party ; 'in any
low, or dilgraceful cOntest, no perfen of a good
judgaient or a good heart will make himfelf
busy—but in a great variety of disputes, that
come within these extremes, a man must act
from the impulses of the occasion : He will how
ever more fafely err, by joining too few, than
too many paities.
NATIONAL MONITOR No. IV.
" From righteous Laws life's choicdl bleflings comt,"
" Hono* abroad, and Liberty at home."
THE Creator of the Unherfe, whose wtrks jtrt
the effeCl oj perfeCl wisdom, and boundless Igjttvi
ience, has ffamped his own divinity upon the Jlienct
°f government, by inseparably conueCling with it,
every facial and public blejfing.
]f we look back to the times of the groffefi ignorance
and barbarism, we Jhall find that our [pedes have,
always been indebted to the rude ideas of government,
which spring almost spontaneous in the human mini,
for the few enjoyments v 'ich fall to the lot of uniif
tip lined nature.
And though mankind, wild and untutored, discover
only detached and partial fptcimeni of ihe efells of
taws—Tet without rules and orders, even btupagu
cannot ex if}.
In forlorn, solitary, wandering independent fav.i
lies of thewildcrnrfs —you may trace theproortfs ana
influence of government in farming them into lriLs,ar.l
thofe again i,ito a Union of different hards, under oni
particular chief—combining for mutual deftnee, and
the more effectually obtaining those objefls which
require united exertions for their acquisition.
As mankind begin to realize the advantages of go
vernment in the Jurprijing difference, it ere ts be
tween savage and civilized nature, they are natural
ly led to extend their ideas, and look forward to im
provements in this science, with a rational hope of
concurring ejjtfls:
This consequence is congenial to the e terprifng
nature of our species—to this principle, under the in
fluence of that wisdom which cannot err, more than to
any other cause, may be afribed the progress of so
ciety, the improvement and perfection of laws and go
vernment.
That government comprifs, confers and- infurts
all the bJeffuigs of life, has been the prevailing fenti
tnent of all mankind from the earliest accounts of so
ciety.—This hai been evinced by thousands of inciityU
which might be adduced.
As the retreat from every public misfortune—as tbi
reward of every toil, hazard and fnfferivg, to repoft
■on the bosom of their native country, vnder the, avf
pices of good government, has been the ultimate of
jefi of the exertions of patriots, heroes and Jlatefmen.
7 his sentiment has been so utiiverfal, that it no]
be justly fuppofd to be inspired into the human mini
by its creator—lt is an impulse founded on principles,
that are perfeCt in their nature—though perhaps the)
remain to be fully exemplified. Civilized and polifhei
Jociety, owes its exiflence to the transforming power
of government; for it is a given point that habits,fci
ence, and morals are subsequent to laws andfalutar)
regulations.
I revious to the late revolution, the people of Ame
rica were the happiejl on the sacs of the earth,
would have continued so under the benign infiui e "J of
loyalty, and a ficred regard to jufl and eqnat If
had not the power of avarice, and the lust of domi
nation dijlurbed their tranquility and deranged all
their plans of happiness.
The late war, however, with all its horrid trtin
of consequences, were but momentary evils—The le
nient hand of time would have soon obliterated them,
and like Mariners efcapinga Jhip - wreck, contemplating
the profpeCl before us—we Jhould have " smiled 6n
the ruins, and enjoyed theftorm," —but there inert
confluences to be apprehended from the triumph of
independence, which were of a more durable and f<-
tio 7 is nature.•—-Tire wife and discerning forefaw trev'
•and warned' their countrymen-—I mean the univerfa!
relaxation of the principles of government, which W'
a more alarming circumfiance than all the ether ej
if(-Ct> of the war—because mora! evils at'e more difl"'
cult to remove, than natural.—lVe have beer, on tee
verge of ruin, but the force of early prejudices ani
habits here interposed, arid directed our lie pi to the
only retreat from deflruClhn —a firm, a just arul
efficient govc -iimcnt,
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 'oV Maiden
i-ANE, near the Oswego-Market, New-Voik.