p'- -, * < ' ■ ,
v'. V" v "V•■«'■;:'Tf') / ?. - sv^r.v^VV-
Vv )fu, / 5•;...} }%. /"'/ ■■ -"v .1 a?>• V .v* ,• •' =:
/ ' ' ' ' ' v\ / '
No. VI.
ETCH of the POLITICAL STATE of
A AMERICA.
NUMBER 111.
AMONG the causes of a domeftie nature, to
v/hich we can attribute our late unhappy situa
tion may be placed thole ill-judged, impolitic com
mercial connections, and speculations in this coun
try consequent upon, the peace, and none perhaps _
may be esteemed more pernicious to us, than our
large importations of britilh luxuries, while we
were prohibited to pay for them in any staples of
cur country ; and little else than specie, which we
nioft wanted at home, was fullered to be taken in
return : For though the exportation of our To
bacco, in the firft initance, promifedagood freight,
vet this, si oni a variety of causes, was soon found
injurious, and in many instances, deffrudiive to
those who were largely concerned in it—to which
ihe difcoui agement, arifi.ig from the high duties
impofedby the. Britilh goverment, and the exorbi
tant coinmiffions charged by their merchants, may
be ascribed as efficient causes—while the narrow
channel, through which it could be introduced in
to France, has never helii out a fufficient induce
ment to the adventurer. Other evils which we
have expei ienced may be said to have arofc from
too licentious notions of liberty, which the early
policy of the day might have given life to, as it
would not have been prud; .it to inform the people
they we; e contending only so a change of rulers—
but ablolute freedom, without reltiaint, was held
out as the palm of virfkory : Thus the publick at
large were led to Confound the ideas of naturaj
and political, or civil liberty—and by experience
only,could be taught the efiential difference. The
fame policy as above referred to, carried into the
principles of taxation, may be viewed as another
ground of our mist'ortunes, as government with
holding for so long a time, in the early stage of the
war, to raise any revenue by taxes, the communi
ty were led to suppose all future impositions u the
kind -4s not arising from neceflity, and to answer
the exigencies of Government, but as the arbitrary
mandates of their rulers, for their own power and
aggrandizement—and even tliofe who knew it to
be the price of our liberty, were alinoft induced to
Telinquifh -m obje<ft so dear in its purcliafe.
Jhe floods of unfunded paper money, ill'ued as
a fubilkute fortaxat 011, gave every opportunity to
the knavilh andill-mihded part of the community,
to cheat and defraud their neighbours, and all un
der the fandtion of solemn adts of Legi(lat,ive an- 1
thority ; and eventually a greater part of this ideal
money funk worthless in the hands of those who '
were bell able to bear it—and without any profpedt
oPredrefs : But during its currency, many people
deferred\alling for those dues which they knew
no way ofjuftly obtaining ;• but after the channels
of justice were once more opened without any bar
rier, those of this clafj, foiiie froin raotives of re
sentment, and others from real nccefiitv, almoil
nniverfally commenced' their suits for those bal
lances, which were by this time grown more bur
thenfome by an accumulated interest ; and per
haps the effects of those habits upon our future in
tertourfe with each other, which were imprefled
by a long conversance in large sums, may not be
placed among the lead injurious confeqnences from
the use of paper money. I venture to rank them
among the greatest, as fixed habits are not readily
removed, and a certain aflociation of ideas will
frequently remain in the mind after the cause which
produced them has ceased to exifb
A ME RICANUS.
(To be continued-)
COMMERCE.
Further extracts from the " AMERICAN ESSAYS.'
u Z, er Marios cafus, per tot dif.rimina rerum
1 Tendimus." Virc.
MULTIFARIOUS have been the speeches and
pH lications upon the now viftonary schemes of a
'■giunational economy,and ripublicanvirtue. Ariiu
ihg pictures ! But where are the originals ! Pain
\v 1 ® Lro 'pc<il ! Blended—alas—with the diluvian
ec ! only serve to throw a melancholy
a "j 0 ? 1 ?y er a U future profpedts. The opinions,
taints of mankind,are perpetually changing,
ce p l . preclude all rational hopes of fuc
t''e en deavors to apply the molt approved
fenj manners of ancient times to the pre
rnifijS tru , e we are in OUI infant Rate, politically
. ' ei . et i ; but morally .confidertd, we are by no
A ■,? "'fants ; we are beyond that period'of
t i , e :' oci! ity ;we maybe said to be at lead ini
mel' , ,^ e no£ adepts,in airthe arts refine
ces aiii S ' laxuries > exirava .-ancics, ibllids, vi
na _' i ants, oftheolueTt and mofl corrupt mo
lClutS: Rome boafledher CINCINNATI. >,r.nd
From W E D N E«S DAY, April 29, to S A T U R D A Y,
America can boast her CINCINNATI, a society,
chiefly corupofed of military patiiots, who may,
with propiety,'be said to be Joliowers, tho' perhaps
not all scrupulous imitators of their ILLUS'I RIO US
PREDECESSOR.
Agriculture, arts} manufactures, and industry,
are promifuig prefaces of future greatness ; but
if these are not attainable, w itliout a rigid' adl:e:«-
ence to that fhnplicity of manners, which is said to
have charadterifed those great and virtuous patri
ots of Greece and who have been so often
held up as our great exemplers, I fear we may
never expeeffcto fee them flourifli in Ameiica.
When the grteat and important question of na
tional revenue is agitating m the grand councils of
the nation, it will be found neceflary to recur to
every probable source, and to contrive to give all
poflible encouragement and etliciency to each ;
tjiis will naturally lead to the confide! ation of the
importance of a free, well regulated, and extenjivt
commerce, which upon the most accurate and pi o
found investigation, of its various productive in
fluence, and eiletfis, will Jif. oer, what at this day,
chiefly gives vigor, life, and energy'to the liuf
bandman, mechanic, manufacturer, and laborec ;
and from whence modern states principally derive
the neceflary resources for the support of govern
ment la the solemn, national deliberations, up
on this deep, this wide, this inn reaf-arable fubjeJt,
it will probably be found neceflary, with our po
litical, to unite the belt commercial knowledge,
and experience, that can be collected in America.
44 EH lavdatifTirr.us, qui per f? cun&a ridebit
4< fced la-dandus et Is, qui paitt re£la monenti."
Tlieprcfent exhausted state of our public and pri
vate finances, and the consequent want of mefins
to supply the exigencies, and h-.pport the credit
and dignity of government,are universally bruited,
acknowledged, felt and deplored ; 'I lie general
decay of trade may doubtleis be confldered one of
the principal causes, as also of the ruinous migra
tion ofour citizens from the sea ports into the re
mote interior country, and even into the Britijh, and
other foreign dominions.
The French merchants have made several at
tempts to carry on the \\ liaLc (ifliery from Dunkirk,
and although the King cf ; France had furnifhed
them with large funis of miney uponthe very ad
vantageous terms of giving all the profits of, that
trade, to the merchants, with the ufe'of the money
without interest, and l'uftaining a'ltlie loss bf un
fuccefsful voyages, yet tljeirfifhery never fucceed
qj, until Americans, principally from the State of
Maflachufetts, were induced by the very great tr.-
couragement offered by the merchants in Dunkirk,
and the want of employ at home, to enter into
their service, lince which, the French government
has prohibited the free importation of whale oil
from foreign dominions. The English owe also
their fticccfs in the whale fifhery chiefly to Ameri
can".; for notwi:ftanding the iminenfe bounties
p.ud by the Bri;i!h government for its encourage
ment,they could never l'ucceed until they employ
ed Americans, who are also very well paid and
greatly encouraged in their service.
The deflru live influence of a declining com
merce adts like a gangrene, which unless timely
checked will soon fyread over the whole body,and
become incurable : Every lover of his country
will therefore befolicitous to find out foinc speedy
remedy for this alarming evil: There are no poffi
bl; adequate fubjlittftes for th: loss of commerce : Our
firft grand objecfttherefore is its rejlcrat.ort. Ipre
fume notto dictate or direcit, it is a fubjecl that
will require the deepest deliberations and re
fearclics of the wisest and most experienced men
in America fully to comprehend : It probably be
longs to no one man exifting,to poflefs all the qua
lifications requisite to trace the course of American
commerce through ail her numerous, intricate and
yet untroden paths ; and to point out those, and
only those, that fliall lead the United States to fu
ture glory and prosperity. lam sanguine in the
belief of the poifibiiity, that; we may one day be
come a great, commercial, and flourifliingnation ,
but ifin pursuit of the means, we lhould unfor
tunately stumble again on unfunded paper money, or
any fimilaf species offraud,we fliall aff'uredly give
a fatal stab to our .national credit in its infancy,
and blast the success of the best concerted plans :
Palliatives at best at e poor pitiful expedients, and"
never to be applied, but in the most desperate, or
incurable causes. Paper money will invariably ope
rate in the body politic, as fpiritous liquors on the
human body, which often produce a momentary
relief, or giddy joy, the ejfeßs of a delirium,-, but
while they intoxicate the brain, and lull the sen
ses, they prey upon the vitals, and ultimately def
troy the conjlitution : " But while a nation can pre
" fcrve its credit at home, and abroad, there are
" no difficulties to be deemed infurmountaMe."
" Loaded with an enormous deb*; beyond the pof-
Übility of payment, and which would annihilate
the credit of any other nation cn the globe, and
burthen ed v. ith taxes which her commerce alone
enables her to support ; C at Britain,' frcm her
ui uform sacred regard to all her pecuniary "Dbli
gations, and tiar.laCtions, foreign and domeltic ;
and her coritant punduial discharge o.f tke inter
est of all loans ; though juit emerged from along,
expensive, unl'uceefsf ul war, now it and?, commer
cially confuiered, the unrivalled miftveis of the
world : Her revenues are immeuie ; her credit at
home and abroad unbounded ; her funds the great
reservoir of the treasures of the globe ; the bank,
of England' full and runing over ; fhip> openly,
or difguifedly.buKrcally ov :;edby Blitiii l.i'.jedti,,
fwanning aad evidef.tly taking the lead in com
merce of every other nation in all the parts of Eu
ro/ , Aju:, Africa, end even in America ; openly
monopolizing the trade in the few lea ports of Au
flrian Flanders, secretly poiteffing a iarge in
every lucrative branch of the French trade,p:vticu
larly their African trade ; draining Partial and
her Colonies in the east and weft ; leaving Spai.t
but little to boast of all those precious Mexican and
Peruvian liarVcfts drawn from the bowels, or the
bosom of her prolific earth ; profiting greatly in
her commercial intercourse with almost every o
ther nation y and wifely jealous and tenacious cf
the exclusive pofiefiion cf all the benefits arriling
from the trade with her own colonies.
r i lius, the little ijland of Britain, maintains the
right and glory of being considered, and acknow
ledged the great Emporia,,: of the won . . Yet such.
is the prelent state of corruption, diflipation, ex
travagance,and immense expence of that nation in
every department, there are only wanted the
united,well directed exertions of theAmericanStates;
with indrftry, and their v onted activity and «» ■
teprize, soon to lop off many of the iiu.?l valuable
b: anclies of their trade ; it is well known that
" the difference of tliree or four per cent, will
carry the trade of the world." Ei C.
N E W-Y O R K.
PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of tf!e
UNITED STATES.
Tuesday, 28th Apxil, 1739.
DEBATE vpon the IMPOST on MOLASSES
continued.
Mr. Madison, after an exordium, observed, Thi*
duty, it is said, will operate against a beneficial
branch of commerce, carried on with our allies ;
but what was the state offaifts previous to tiie re
volution ! This trade supported itl'clf, notwkh
ftandingthe article ofmolafiis was then fubjeeu to
a duty, and foreign rum was imported duty free :
Now, there is a heavy duty 011 rum, and yet thi9
article, it is contended can not bear a rax—if the
manufacture of rn.ll was in aflourifliing condition,
when it had to combat a duty, and tjie influx cf
foreign spirits, it appears absurd to fa "pole,
that the proposed duty, will annihilate the tiade.
There is a auty upon country rum, through the
States, yet the trade is not deltroyed; and if this
duty is afl'efl'ed on molafles,it is evident from tliefe
fadts that the importation will not be diminished.
It is considered by gent, " men as ane,ceflary article
of life—if this is granted, it must alfobe allowed,
that a great proportion is consumed through the
States—and where mollifies is not used, it is more
than balanced, by Sugar —as that pays a higher
daty.
It has been said, that this duty will be burthen
fome, as it will oblige the merchants to encreafe
their capitals—but this obje<slion applies to other
branches, and must be fubraitted to, or we must
relinquish the idea of a revenue. The complaint
refpedting the fifhermen appears ill feiunded, as no
draw back is now allowed on the duty paid oh rum
confmned by them. The objedlion urged against
the tax on account of smuggling (from the bulk
-•nd weight of this article), cannot be considered
a. irmidable. Mr. Madifou was opposed to the
fubffitute mentioned, anexcifeat the diltill head,
at prefetit.
There was, fte observed, an excise already upon
rum in the States ; but molafies, he believed, was
free—and if a duty was now laid upon the latter,
he had 110 doubt of an encreafe intlie fhle of run}.
Should this article be struck cut of the report,
it would be facrificing the interest of three millions
of people to support the interest of the distillers.
This duty will not bear harder on the eastern
than other exacftions will on the southern States—
he was therefore against a diminution of the fix
cents, or striking out the article.
Mr. Ames observed, that the Constitution under
which this Hpufe was now deliberating was the
result of commercial necelHty—that from the opi
nion he hid formed, and from the evidence hehad received, he had bc?n led to fuppa'fe that the
l'entiments of that houio perfectly corresponded
with the ideas of their conltitueuts, that to revive,
proceift and encourage the commerce, navigation,
agriculture, and manufactures of the Union, were
among the great objects tor which the Conltitaticm
had been adopted.—-Tfie fifliery he observed, Mas
one of the molt important among tliofe objects—
Gentlemen on all hands, realized this truth—Of
all the various branches of buiinefs carried oil in
the United States, none perhaps had filtered more
than the iilherics—lhut out from the Englith ports
entirely,,and admitted into those of our allies up
on severe restrictions, this molt beneficial buiinefs
had rapidly declined—was daily growing worse,
and it loaded with additional burthens would be
totally' deltroyed—this buiinefs employed 26,00 c
tons of flapping,and a great number of the poorer,
though important pare of the community, and was
a nuYfery for seamen, which it had been the poli
cy of the wifelt nations to cherith and encouragi
—these veilels r iade four fairs annually, and took
upon an average upwards of 400,000 quintals ol
fith —the greatelk part of the filh could be fold in
310 other market but the Weft-Indies, and there
molafles was the only return's that could be obtain
ed ; this molafles was consumed in its original ltate
in great quantities by the filhermen. Ihe ex
portation of the fifli employed nearly as much fhip
ing-as was engaged in taking it, several important
inecllanical branches depended upon, and were
inseparably connected with this particular bufi
nels—lf a doubt therefore could be raised upoii
the expediency of adopting a measure, that might
eflentially injure an interest foextenfive, gentle
men could not think of being tenacious of luch a
measure. Mr. Ames thought he could l aifcfuch a
doubt.—The Honorable Gentleman from Viginia
had alked, how it was to be .accounted for, that this
buiinefs (hould be able to support itfelf before the
revolution, when molafles paid a duty and foreign
rum was free ? l o this Mr. Ames replied, that
previous to the war, the br.fme(s was carried 011
tinder a variety of advantage:;, which jt was now
deprived of, that the belt markets were entirely
cut off—Newfoundland, Oucbeck, those great
marts we were excluded from.—He adduced a va
riety of other reasons why the present state of the
buiinefs, would bear no compai iibn with its for
mer situation, and then added, that to other pre
sent embarrafmects, it was to be apprehended, that
we might lhortly be deprived of the only market
left us for the principle part of our fifli—as the
merchants at L'Orient ha ', represented to govern
ment, that it would be for the interest of their co
lonies to diftill their molafles in the 1 (lands, and
that upon the llrength of this idea, diftill houses
were erecting in thole Islands. It had been objected,
that encouraging the manufacture of country rum
■would diminish the revenue by leflening the con
sumption of foreign Ipirits—to this Mr. Ames repli
ed, that he was happy to find that the Hon. Gentle
man from Virginia, upon the use of brandy, fur
niSieda full answer to this objection, and that was,
that although brandy had paid no duty there,
and Jamaica spirits an high one, yet the use of
brandy didnotencreafe, and the importation bore
no proportion to Welt-India spirits—the truth was,
theconfumption of that country rum was not fafhi
onable, and therefore would never be extensive,
it was conlidered as noxious—it was offenfive, and
it was disreputable to use it—much had been said
against the. use of fpiritous liquors—Mr. Ames was
in lentiment with those opposed to their coiifump
tion—but at the present moment,, gentlemen did
not mean to take up the subject in a moral point
of view—revenue was the great object ltow before
them, and as it refpectecl that, he conceived, the
duty on an article which would amount to a pro
hibition, attended with the disagreeable conse
quences pointed out, mull'oe impolitic. Mr. Ames
next proceeded to consider the article of molafles
as a neceflary of life—neceflaries he defined, such
articles as are found faluta'ry, and enter into the
daily and common fnltenance of all ranks, and
more especially of the poorer clafles of citizens—
Some kind of sweetening was universally allowed
to be of thisdefcription—Molafles therefore from
its wholesome qualities, and its cheapnef?;, was used
very extenlively by the people of the New-Eng
land States—it was used not merely as fngar, but
entered into their food in a variety of ways—and
was their only fubltitute for malt in the making of
beer—the articles used in brewing at the south
ward were, exempted from duty, and he conceived
no good reafoti could beafligned, why a difference
fnould be made between the common drink, of one
part of the continent and that of another. This
daty would operate as a very partial tax, in as
much as in addition to it, the eastern States paid
their full proportion upon all other articles.
From tlie»ib:"egoing observations, Mr. Ames con.
eluded, that as the navigation ot the Union, and
jnore especially the eastern fiftieries, would be so
materially affected and injured by this partial duty
—as it was an object of importance to encourage
exrenfive manufactures —as it could not poflibly
enter in the views of the House to tax, heavily tax,
the neceflaries of life—as this duty -as so over
poportioned to the reft of the system—he wasdi
cide llv onpofed to the sum of fix cents per gallon
on molafles—he mentioned one cent, or that it
should be included in 11011 enumerated articles.
Mr. SvLvtsTEk observed, he thought that the
Houie was ripe for a decifion--gentlemen differed
so widely, that he defpuired ol getting better in
formation —he was therefore in favor ot, and
would propose a medium duty to save time.
Mr. Madison ltill advocated the duty, and as
he it a reaionable one, hewiihed that
it mignt now he fixed, as gentlemen mufl ba
l'enlible that variations in the revenue laws would
be facrificing our bell friends—Mr. Madiion obser
ved, that the exports fi-9111 Maflachufetts were not
one third so much as those from Virginia, ami that
consequently her imports were proportionably
greater, and her burthen of taxes enhanced : He
iurther observed, that he considered that the poor
of one state was upon a par with thole of another,
and therefore could not fee the propriety of any
iliitindtion's being made.
Mr. Fitzsimo ns was opposed to any diminution.
The duty, he o'oferved, would not .fall 011 the ma
nufacturer, but on the conf'umer of the article ; and
as more than x oooooogallons of ruin would be expor
ted,6n which a drawback would be allowed,he could
not think the duty would fall so heavy : He obser
ved, that the pref'ent trade was greater than it was
before the war : That there could be no revenue
without taxing neceflaries : The tax on fifhermen
for this article, would not be more than 3*4 th of a
dollar pr. annum ; and he conceived it was local
to oppose it.
Mr. Goodhue observed, That the duty on Mo
lalles had been palled oyer, to give gentlemen time,
who expec'ted information oil tfie fubjedt from their
conflitucnts at the eastward ; but the port on Satur
day had not brought any dispatches on the subject.
He would therefore, he observed, endeavour to
give the House all the information upon the fubjeJi,
at present in his poHefficn : Molafles, Sir, is tlie pro
duction alinoft altogether of the French Weft-India
Islands ; and is purchased chiefly for fifli and lum
ber. she fifh which is exchanged for it, is of so
inferior a quality, by reason of being caught and
cured in the hottest of the season, that none but the
negroes of those illauds can be induced to make use
of it.
We are reftritfled by the French from takin?; any
production in exchange for our commodities from
those lflands but this article, the rum made from
it, and fait. ihe only realbn for allowing us to
vend our fifh there is, to take off their fuperfluous
articles—their policy having prohibited the impor
tation of molafles and rum into the mother country,
left it should interfere with their wines and bran
dies : From these facfts, it is evident, that the
fifhery rests on the molafles bufmels. '1 hey stand
or fall together.
But, Mr. Speaker, molaffcs is a neceflary of life,
when used in lubflance, particularly so to the poor
er class of the people in the eastern States, who
use it irjftead of sugar : the duty of 6 cents is 30
pr. cent, on its value—equal to the duty on ruin
and double to that on fiigar : even luxuries are
not taxed so liigli. Maflachufetts imports 3'oooo«o
of molafles, annually, which at 6 cents
would be.lßoooo dollars ; more than Pennsylvania
pays on rum and sugar together. f his article has
never been rated high by any <jf the states : a plain
proof that the sense of the people is not in fav our
of so exorbitant a duty. We ought to be circum
fpetft in the business before us ; nor givejuft cause
of uneasiness to our constituents ; especially at the
commencement of the Constitution : for though I
would not venture to fay, that Maflachufetts would
not be as quiescent and fubmiflive to every measure
of Congress, as any state in the union, yet I must
fay, t hat they will consider thisduty, or any thine*
near it, as injurious to their trade, fifheries and
manufactures, and contrary to the principles of
justice, or national policy. It has been said, that
Maflachufetts ought not to complain, as the amount
of her imports are not more than one third the a
mount of those in Virginia ; but the gentleman
has brought no evidence to prove it : I can fay,
Sir, and I believe upon good grounds, that flie im
ports quite as much. J his duty is compared to the
duty 011 lboes, and candles ; but Sir, one cargo of
molafles would pay as much at 6 cents duty, as the
whole quantity of" candles probably imported into
Virginia in a year. I beg leave to add one more
observation— it is, that the British Parliament im
posed, at one time, 3 pence fterl. a gallon on mo
lafles—Not one farthing of duty was colletfled
while it continued so high, so odious was it to all
ranks ofpeople; andtheywere compelled to lower
it to 1 penny.—l hope we fliall learn wisdom from
the example.
Mr. G, rry observed, that he was in favor of a
revenue by impost, except on neceflaries, and raw
materials, because on all other articles it may be
considered as a voluntary tax, for the perfbn who
was finally to pay it, had it in his power to avoid
the tax, by not colifuining the articles dutied ; but
it must be admitted, that imports were burt'hen
fome on commerce, as the importer must advance
the duty, and that being usually raised from some
of the dutied articles, would oblige him to force a
sale to alofSi: It must also be admitted,that he would
be subject to bad debts, and that the imports there
on would be his loss. It was therefore neceflary
to be judicious in clioofing the articles, and in de
termining the quantity of import, for it might
otherwise destroy the "ourceof this revenue Ti :
precaution he thought had not been taken in i
tying moiafles : The trade itfelf v.as in Mafia iH
ietts at a low ebb, and could hardly be fupw"
Should a duty of 6 cents pr. gallon be now
a cargo and outfits, of ioool. lawful, which way
procure about 22,000 gallons of moiafles,
pay 3961.. duties, being nearly 40 p .cent', on rt.
capital: In addition ro the premium of infurai,
and iailors wages, which mult always be paid"'
the arrival of the veliel, the merchant must r °'
raise money to pay the impost, which would n-q
]y distress him in the present lcarcity offp ec
infer 011 him a considerable loss, and difcoui "
the trade : and the evil would not terminateherf
for a large quantity of this article was
by the poor of the seaports, who to fublift tl lea
selves and their families, were under the neccfe
of qualifying with it their indian meal, and otlit
articles, not being able to procure flour ormeal
and they uled it with water, and in their beer'
which being generally made of spruce, or hop'
would be otherwise too unpalatable for use.
were no breweries, hefaid, in that part of the cob!
tinent; and this he fconfidered as a misfortune tri
by no means a fufticient reason for thus taxing'&]
poor. If a proposition fliould be made for lavi;-
a duty on the ordinary beer used by the poor of
other States ; or if beef and pork could not be pro!
cured among ourfelvesin fufficient quantities, aji
it fliould be proposed to lay an impost on thole sr.
tides, would not gentlemen, from all quarters, cor,
fider it as oppreiiive—furely they would—and j
mnft be so considered in the present cafe—form,
lafles was a neceflary ingredient of the food at;
drink of the poorest people of fonie of the states ; ■
and the loading this article with so high a duty.
would so raise its price, as to leflen the conftntp.
tion, and thus be an additional difcouragenienni
the trade ; but the evil would be Hill mere em
five. The distillers now purchased mobiles intlr
Ealtern states, free of duty, and an impolt of
cents pr. gallon, would raise it 30 pr. cent, ana
render it neceflary for distillers to have capita;
proporrionably larger, or to manufacture leis run
this circumstance, and the decilion of the HouJe
not to allov- a debenture 011 rum exported, will
leflen the demand of moiafles for diftillirg, ari
prove a further discouragement to the trade: tr.:
it is that rum is injurious to our citizens, but th:
eftablifliment of diltilleries, as well as the impor
tation of rum, has liacl the fandtion of our lav .
and therefore the distillers ai e not charged::
with the evil. If it is neceflary at once to destroy
these manufactories, the proprietors ought injuf
lice to be reimbursed the coil thereof by the pub
lie ; but if the article is still to be in use amongit .
us, Ihould not good policy induce us to give a pre
ferrence to our own manufaifhires ? It iiiuft then
be evident this duty, by discouraging, will great
ly leflen the moiafles trade, and with it the de
mand for fifh, which is exported for thepurchalc
of that article. The fifliery is already diftrefled,
by the rcftricftions and impositions of the nations
who are endeavoring to rival us, and who apply
as a bounty on their own fifli, the duties impoftJ
on ours ; and if the demand fliould ceafefora cor
fiderable part of our fifh, which can only be carried
to the Weft-India markets : This important branch
can no longer be supported : This duty moreover
would take from every filherman, who with lis
family, will consume about 30 gallons of molalfo
a year, about two dollars, which will in efFeift op
erate as a poll tax: Already havepropofitionsbet!
made to some of our merchants in that branch.:
remove to Nova Scotia—and such difcourageme©
would promote the emigration of our fifhermen
The loss of the fifliery would extend itfelf to Un
building, there being at least 27,000 tons offtip
ping employed in taking, and half as much more
in carrying to market that article : The ship-build
ers therefore, and the numerous mechanics depea
dent on Shipping, would be immediately afledij
by this duty ; and it weuld extend itfelt through
the whole lyftem of the eastern
inequality of this duty is evident by comparing'
with the impost on sugar, which is only one fa'
of its value, whil!'; that on molafTes is one thi",
and'fugar is a luxury, wliilft moiafles is not.
the full force of these objections fliould not be
mitted, 110 one can deny, that there will be 8 '
in adopting !the measure proposed: And are"
not hazarding the difafFeiftion of the numerous 0
tizens concerned in the moiafles trade, fifliery, j
tilleries and ihip-building, who warmly advocate 4 -.
and expected benefit from the constitution; E '
the impost proposed will defeat itfelf, surely >'•
never be good policy tolaythe duty fohighj 3s '!
exceed the rilk of linuggling. If the rifle is JP.
cent, and the duty 40 pr. cent, there can be ®
doubt that the merchant wil 1 smuggle the mo a I
more especially as he will confiderhimfe' io Pi'
f ed, and will be compelled to do this, or to S^ e -j;
the trade ; and if we multiply revenue of cers, '^
they eat up the revenue, they will not be a
prevent the measure : It must appear then, t
in lieu of this high duty, we iinpiofes modera
cife 011 rum, or afmall impoft'on
not only avoid the injuries which will others
tend to our commerce,but shall also greatly 1 { -
the revenue itfelf: He therefore moved ti
words "onmoiafles6Cents" ihould be ftnic 0r Several other gentlemen [pake upon both fides of this
L fn 0/t . b,ut our limits will not admit of inffrttng their
/ihe'queftion being taken, the duty was contin
ued at 6 cents. # > , ■
Mr Sherman moved, that card Mire bs added
to the articles exempted from Impost—which was
having proceeded through the re
mainder of the report (except the duty on tonnage,
which was poitponed) appointedMr.CLYME,' ,Mr.
White, and Mr. Baldwin, a committee, to draft
and report a bill.
A resolution of the Senate was then read, pur
porting that they had appointed Mr. Johnston,
Mr Izard,and Mr. Maclav a committee,to deter
wine and report, reflecting the papers in the late
Secretary's office. *1 lie Houl'c concurred, and ap
pointed Mr. Trumbull, Mr. C .rw i ,-D. h, : nci
Mr. Jackson, to join the committee of the Senate.
Wednesday, Atril 29.
A letter from Matthias OgDiH, Esq. of New-
Terfey, addrefled to the Speaker, incloling a peti
tion and remonstrance of a number of citizens of
Ncw-Jerfcy, alledging, that certain irregularities
had prevailed at their late election, and that undue
means has been used to bias the voters ; also com
plaining of the return made by the Governor, was
read, together with the petition, and committed to
the committee of elections.
The House took up the consideration of the re
folutiofl of the Senate for attending divine service,
in St. Paul's church, immediately after the oath is
adininiitered to the President, and concurred there
with. _ , _
A committee was appointed to prepare an efti
mateofthe probable amount of the revenue on
impost, agreeably to the duties lately ag' eed to ;
and to procure an eftirriate of the public debt.
Friday, Maiv i, 17P9.
The Speech of the President, to the two Hcnfes
of Congvefs yesterday, was read, and referred to
a committee of the whole House.
The Houle then resolved itfelf into a committee,
and Mr. Page took the chair.
Mr. Madison then introduced a resolution to
the following effect, viz. ■
Resolved, as the opinion of this committee, that
a feleift committee of the House be appointed, to
prepaie an address to the Piefident, congratulat
ing hiin on his appointment to the office of Pre
sident of thef'e States by the unanimous voice of
his countrymen —expressing the approbation of the
Houle of the liberal and patriotic sentiments, con
tained in his speech, and their concurrence iij e
very plan which he has or may propose, to secure
the liberties, promote the harmony,and advance the
happinefe and prosperity of their country.— I his
resolution being adopted, the committee was dis
solved, and the Speaker resumed the chair—when
the following gentlemen were elected a commit
tee, agreeably to the resolve—Mr. Madison, Mr.
Clymer, Mr. Sh cßmam, Mr. Bi nson, Mr. Gale.
A proposition for the appointment of a com,
mittee, to take into consideration, what compen
sation lhall be made to the President for his fervi
ces, was after some conversation referred to a com
mittee of the whole upon the state of the Union.
Upon motion of Mr. Shfrman, to take up the
order of the day—it was voted to come to the choie
of a Chaplain—the ballots being collected—the
Reverend Mr. Linn was chosen.
Adjourned until Monday.
NEIV.WRK, MAT 2.
On Thursday laft,agreeably to the resolution of
bothHjufes of Congress, the inauguration ofTHE
PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES was so
lemnized.
At nine o'clock, A. M.* the people aflembled in
the several churches,with tl - Clergy of therefpec
tive denominations, to implore the blessing of Hea
ven upon the new govermemt, its favor and pro
tection to the PRESIDENT, and l'uccefs and ac
ceptance to his administration.
About twelve o'clock the procession moved from
the House of the President, in Cherry-Street —
through Queen, Great Dock and Broid Sreets, to
the Federal State House, in the following order :
Col. Lewis,
Attended by two Officers.
Capt. Stakes,
With the Troop of Horse.
Artillery.
Major Van Horns.
Grenadiers, under Capt. Harsin,
German Grenadiers, underCapt. Scri ba.
Major Bickiwi.
The Infantry of the Brigade.
Major Chkystie.
Sheriff.
Committee of the Senate.
•sjajijio ri A o
Committee oftlie Representatives.
Hon. Mr. Jay.
Gen. Knox.
Chancellor Livingston,
Several gentlemen of distinction.
When within a proper distance of the State-lloufe,
the troops formed a line on both fides of the way,
'I HE PRESIDENT palling through, was conducted
into the Senate Chamber, and introduced to both
iloufo of Congress,
Immediately after, accompanied by the two
Houles, he was conducted into the Gallery adjoin
ing the Senate Chamber,and fronting Broad-Street,
where, in the presence of an immense concourse
of citizens, the Oath, prescribed by the Conllitu
tion, was adminifteried to him by the Hon. R. R.
Esq. Chancellor of the State of
New-York.
i lie Chancellor then proclaimed him THE PRE
SIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, wliich'was
followed by the instant discharge of i 3 cannon,
and loud repeated shouts : the President bow
ing to the people, the air again rang with their
acclamations: He then retired with the two Houses
to the Senate Chamber, where he made the follow
ing SPEECH.
TE L LOW-Ct Tl ZENS OF THE SENATE,
anp of the House of Representatives,
AMONG the viciflitudes incident to life, no event could hafve
filltd me with greater anxieties, than that of which the notification
was' transmitted by your order, and received on the 14th day ol
the present month.—On the one hand, I was summoned by my
country, whose voice I can never hear but with veneration and
love, from a retre. which I had chosen with the fondeft predi
lection, and in my flattering hopes, with an immutable decision,
as the asylum of my declining years ; a retreat which was rendered
every day more necefTary as well as more dear to me, by the ad
dition of habit to inclination, and of frequent interruptions in my
heal oh to the gradual waftc committed on it by time. On the
other the magnitude and difficulty of the trust to which the
voice of my country called me, being fufficient to awaken in the
wisest and mod experienced of her citizens, a diftruflful scrutiny
into his qualifications, 'could not but overwhelm with despondence,
one, who, inheriting inferior endowments from nature, and un
praftifed in the duties of civil adminillration, ought to be pecu
liarly conscious of his own deficiencies. In this conflict of emo
tions, all I dare aver, is, that it has been my faithful study to col
lect my duty from ajuft appreciation of every circumstance, by
v. hidi it might be afte&ed. All 1 dare hope, is, that, if in execu
ting this task, I have been too much swayed by a grateful remcm
bran eof former inflances, or bv an affe&ionate sensibility to this
tranfeendant prods of the confidence of my fellow citizens; and
have thence too little consulted my incapacity as well as disincli
nation, for the weighty apd untried cares before me; my error
will be palliated by the motives which misled me, and its confe
rences b& judged by my country, with some share of the parti
ality in which they originated.
Such being the imprefTions under which I have, in obedience to
the public furmnons, repaired to thp present flation ; it would be
peculiarly improper to omit in this firfl official a£i, my fervent
supplications to that Almighty Being who rules over the universe;
prefidcs in the councils of nations, and whose providential
aids can supply every human defett, that hisbencdi&ion may con
secrate to the liberties and happiness of the people of the United
States, a government instituted by themselves for these effeii-al
purposes ; and may enable every instrument employed in its ad
miniflration, to execute with success, the tunftions allotted to his
charge. In tendering this homage to the great author of every
public and private good, I aflurc myfelf that it exprelTes your feq
tiinents not less than my own; nor those of my fellow citizens at
large, less than either. No people can be bound to acknowledge
and adore the invisible hand, which condu6ls the affairs of men
more than the people of the United States. Every flep by which
they have advanced to the character of an independent nation,
seems to have been distinguished by fdme token of providential
agency. And in the important revolution j u st accomplished in the
system of their united government, the tranquil deliberations, and
voluntary consent of so many diftinfl communities, from which
the event has resulted, cannot be compared with the means by
which moll governments have been eflablifhed, without some re
turn of pious gratitude along with an humble anticipation of the
future bleflings which the part; seem to presage. These reflections
arising out of the present cr r is, have forced themselves too firong
ly orypy mind to be fupprefTed. You will join with me, I trust,
in thinking, that there are none under the influence of which, the
proceedings of a new and free government can more auspiciously
commence.
By the article establishing the executive department, it is made
the duty of the President to " recommend to your consideration,
such meafuresas he shall judge neceflary and expedient." The cir
eumftances under which I now meet you,will acquit me fiom enter
ing into that fubjefl, farther than to refer to the great conilitutional
charter under which you arc aflembltd, aud which, in defining
your powers, designates the obje&sto which your attention is to be
given. It will be more confident with those circumstances, and
far more congenial with the feeiings which actuate me, to substitute,
in place of a rccommrndation of particular measure.% the tribute
that is due to the talents, the reClitqde, and the patriotism which
adorn the characters fele£ted to dcvifc and adopt them. In those
honorable qualifications, I behold the surest pledges, that as on one
fide no local prejudices, or attachments—no separate views,no par
ty nnimofities, will mifdircft the comprehensive and equal eye
which ought to watch over this great aftemblage of communities
and interests; so, on the other, that the foundations of our national
policy will belaid in the pure and immutable principles of private
morality; and the pre-eminence of free government, be exempli
fied by all the attributes which can win the affe&ions of its citizens,
and command the refpe£t of the world—l dwell on this profped
with every fatisfaftion which an ardent love of my country can in
spire. Sincc there is no truth more thoroughly eflablifhed, than
that there exists in the oeconotny and course of nature, an indiflo
lub:cunion between virtue and happiness ; between duty and ad
vantage, between genuine maximsof an honest and magnanimous
policy, and the solid rewards of public prosperity and felicity.
Since we ought to be no If fs pcrfuaded that the propitious smiles of
heaven, can never be expected on a nation that disregards the eter
nal rules of order and right, which heaven itfelf has ordained. And
since the prefcrvation of the sacred fire .of liberty, and the destiny
of the republican model of government, are justly considered as
deeply 1 perhaps as finally flaked on the experiment entrufled to the
hands of the American people.
Bcfides the ordinary objetls submitted to your care, it will re
main with your judgment to decide, how far an exercise of the
occasional power delegated by the fifth article of the constitution is
rendered expedient at the present jun&ure by the nature of objec
tions which have been urged against the system, or by the degree
of inquietude which has given birth to them.
Instead of undertaking particular recommendations on this fab
le#, in which I could be guided by no lights derived from official
opportunities, I shall again give way to my entire confidence in
your difcernmpnt andpuifuit of the public good.
•S.WDI}(O ITAI3
For I allure myfelf that wnilAyou carefully avoid very altera
tion which lnjtfht endanger the benefit'* of an united and effective
government, or which ought to await the future leflbn ot expe, -
once ; a reverence for the chara&eriilic rights ot freemen, and a ic
ard for the public harmony, will fufficiently influence your de
• Derations on thequcition how far th former can be more lmpreg
nably fortified, or the latter be fafely and advanta ;eoufly promoted.
To the preceding observations I have one to add, which will he
noil properly addrefled to the house of reprefentatives,it concerns
myfelf, and will therefore be as brief as poflible.
When I was firft honoured wfth a call into the service of my
country, then on the eve of an arduous struggle for its liberties,
!he light in which I contemplated my duty required that I should
renounce every pecuniary compensation. From this resolution I
'.aVe in no instance departed. And being still under the impressions
which produced it, I must decline as inapplicable to myfelf, any
hare personal emoluments, which may be indispensably con
luded in a permanent provifionfor the executive department; and
must accordingly prayi that the pecuniary estimates for the station
id which I am placed, may, during my continuance in it, be li
mited to such actual expenditures as the public good may be thought
o require.
Having thus imparted to you my sentiments, as they have been
rwakened by the occasion which brings us together—l shall take
my present leave ; but not without resorting once more to the benign
parent of the human race, in humble supplication, that since he
ias been pleased tr» favour the American people with opportunities
;or deliberating in perfett tranquility, and dispositions for deciding
vith unparalleled unanimity on a form of government, for the
fe urity of their union, and the advancement of their happiness ;
so his divine blefllng rnay be equally conspicuous in the enlarged
views, the temperate consultations, and the wife'meafure's on which
flhe success of fhis government must depend.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
The President, accompanied by His Excellency the Vice-Pre
sident, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and both Houfs
of Congress, then went to St. Paul's fchapel, where divine service
was performed, by the Right Rev. Dr. Provost. Bilhopofthe
Episcopal Church in this State, and Chaplain to the Senate." *
The religious folemuity being ended, the President was escorted
:o his relidence.
Yesterday morning the President received the compliments
as His Excellency the Vice President, His Excellency the Governor
of this State ; the principal Officers of the different Departments; the
fageign Ministers ; and a great number of other pertons oldiftin£tion.
We are informed, that *r he President hasattigned every Tuei-<
day and Friday, between the hours of two and three, for receiving
visits ; and that visits of compliment orf other days, 'and particularly
on Sundays, will mot be agreeable to him.
It seems to be j. prevailing opinion, that so much of the Pre
side nt's time will be engaged by the various and important buti
nefs, imposed upon him by the Constitution, that he will find him
felf conurained to omit returning visits, of accepting invitations to
Entertainments.
The tranfpapent paintings exhibited in various
parts of the city, on Thursday evening, were c
qual at least, to any thing of the kind ever before
seen in America. <
That displayed before the Fort at the bottom
of Broad-way, did great honor to its inventors
and executors,for the ingenuity of the design, and
goodness of the workmanship ; it was finely light
ed and advantageously foliated : The virtues,
FORTITUDE,* JUS fICE,f and were
judiciously applied ; of the firft, all America has
had the fullelt evidence ; and with refpecft to the
two others, who does notentertaintheinoft pleas
ing anticipations.
* The President. fTheSENATE. J The Representa
tives of the United States.
His Excellency Don Gardoqui's residence next
caught the eye—and fixed it in pleasing contem
plation : The Tout-en-femblc here, formed a molt
brilliant front ; the figures well fancied, I'HE
GRACES, suggested the best ideas ; and the pleas
ing variety ot emblems, flowers, jhrubbcry, arches,
See. and above all the MOVING PICTURES, that
figured in the windows, or as it were in the back
ground, created by fixing the transparencies be
tween the windows,afforded anew—an
and enchanting spectacle.
The residence of his Excellency, Count
Moustier, was illuminated in a stile of novel
elcgance ; the splendid bordering of lamps ronnd
the windows, doors, &c. with the fancy pieces In
each window ; And above all the large deflgns in
front, the allusions, of which we cannot at present
particulaly describe, did great honor to the taste
and sentiment of thfe inventor.
The above two instances of attention to honor
this great and important occasion, so highly inter
esting to our" dear country," evince the friend
fhip, the delicacy and politeness of our illustrious
allies.
The portrait of " THE FATHER OF HIS
COUNTRY" exhibited in Broad-Street, was ex
tremely well executed, and had a fine effeift.
There was an excellent Trafparency, also shewn
at the Theatre, and at the corner, near the Fly-
Market : In fliort, emulation and ingenuity were
alive ; but perhaps were in no instance exhibited
to greater advantage than in the display of the
FireWorks, which, from one novelty to another,
continued for two hours, to surprize, by variety,
taste, and brilliancy.
The illumination of the Federal State House,
was among the most agreeable of the exhibitions
of the evening ; and the ship Carolina formed a
beautiful pyramid qf Stars The evening was
fine —the company e—every one ap
peared to enjoy the scene, and no accident casts
the smallest cloud upon the retrorpedl.
ARRIVALS.
At the Port of New-York.
Wcite flay. Brig Minerva, Bell, 39 days. , ,
Sloop Mary, Daun, St. John's.
Ann, Lvburn, Turks-Island, 15 days.
Friday. Sloop Peggy, Cahoone, Rhode-Island ; 1 day.
Defiance, Drew, Baltimore.
Friendship, Savanna.THE tablet.^
NUMBER VI.
" It ii h no mean! fortune that hi/es the world ; for
this we m.xy appeal ti fever a! nations, who have had
a long Jules as prosperities, wheu they a Bed upon a
ccrtui/i plan ; a,id an uninterupted course of mis for
ruhes t when they cojiducied thc'/ufelves*iipoji another.
There ar ' general c.t.Jnatural or thoral, which
operate in every Jlate ; which raije, fipport or over
turn it."
II is the opinion of many philosophic men,
that'fociery lias nor f'een its belt days. ouch an
idea nut- not be coiili.leretl as the rhapsody of an
e;. rim hail, or the dream of a poet. Ihe fatal de
clentiori ofllatesmay be rationallv accounted for,
without prpluppoling any eilential propenftty, in
individuals or communities,to fall into excellive de
pravity. It l'trikes the view of even 31 careless ob
server, that no age or nation has exhibited a per
fpecimen ol a people, who have combined a
li-11 knowledge of tin? human character, with a
thorough knowledge oi the principles of govern
ment. 111 all periods of the .vo.ld, there has been
an ailoniihing deficiency in one 01 these respects,
and very otten inboth./ Morality hasfeldom bgen
heiil in eltimationas a L.'.uce. Men of genius and
leisure have too much employed their attention,
upon abitradt fciertces, wliich have no influ
ence upon the happinels of foeiety; or inframing
fylienis of re.'.gious delufiori, which are not cal
culated to promote the beit i:i:ereli oi rational be
ings. rheimprovements Oi tlieiaoral faculty have
not kept pace wkh the attainments of the intellec
tual. 1 liis important atquilition fceris to have
beenrefrirved lor the present, orfomt future age.
It will be the result of aitiperior degree of know
-1 cH<*e, bothwitli respect to men and goveiiutient.
The humanfnind seems to be changing us course
of thinking. Legislators know how to manage
mo re dk'd fully tlis vices,the pailions,and the weak
neiles or men. They do not as formerly waits
th ir time in lamenting, in unavailing complaints,
the wan; o. patriotifui s Which, accjrdii: m to the
comi 1011 application of the word, has been one of
the molt terrible scourges, that ever punilhed the
wickednelsi or tormented the peace of society.
V\ hen we lookback to the hillory of nations, the
molt celebrated for this virtue,we Ihould conclude
from their condu<fl, that men were only born to
make each other wretched. We will however
Jhut our eyesagainft these hoi ridfeenesofantiquity;
and anticipate the p niod, when reason and philo
fonhy thail bear for is sway, in the management
or human afFairs. It will tlienbegiu to be known,
rhat the human race were created for loine other
purpofe,thantoperfecuteand devour one another.
Should that happy hour ever arrive, good men
will wish, that for the honor of hinnan nature,
veil might be forever thrown oVor past transac
tions.
" IVarm from tJie heart—and true to all its /ins."
The following ADDRESS was presented to his Ex
cellency Gk.ok.ce Washington, soon after his
departure from Mount-Vernou, 011 his journey to
this city.
To GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States, ire. o 0.
AGAIN your country demands your care
Obedient to its wifhes—unitiri jful of vour own'
ease, we fee you again relinquiliing tji'e bliss of
retirement; and this too, at of life, when
nature itfelf seems to uuthorifj a preference of re
pose.
Not to extol your glory as a soldier : Not to pour
forth.our gratitude for past services : Not to ack
nowledge the juftice__ of the unexampled honor
which has been co.iferred upon you, by the spon
taneous and unanimous luffrage of three millions
of freemen, in your election to the Supreme Ma
giltracy : Not to admire the patjriotifm which di
re As your conduct, do youi: Neighbours and
Friends now addtels you.—Themes less Iplendid,
but more eudeaiihg, impress our minds.—The jfirft
and belt of citizens mult leave us ! Our Aged mult
lose theirOnia lent ! Our Youth their Model ! Our
Agriculture ies Improver! Our Commerce ia Friend!
Our iitf.wi*- Ar a.lemy its Patron ! OurPoortheir Be
nefactor!! And the interior Navigation of the Po
tomac, an event replete with the inoft extensive
Utility, already, by your unremitted-exertions,
brought into partial ufe—itslnftitutor ajid Promo
ter !
Farewell ! —CTo—and make a grateful people
happy—a pecJple, who will be clqnibly grat«foJ,
when they contemplate this recent Ifacrifice for
tiiei" interest.
To that Being, who maketh and umnaketh at
Ills v. ill, we commend you ; and, after the accom
pKih'HeiU of the arduous business to which yon are
called, may He reilbre to us again the beit of
Men, and the molt beloved Fellow Citizen.
111 behalf of the Feople of Alexandria,
■DENNIS RAMS AY, Mayor.
April 16, 178^.
his excellency's answer.
To the MAYOR, CORPORATION, and CITIZENS
of ALEXANDRIA.
Gentlemen',
ALTHOUGH I ought not conceal, yet I cannot
deicribe, the painful emotions which I felt, in
being called upon to determine whether I' would
accept, or refufe, the Presidency of\tlie United
States.
The unanimity in the choice—the opinion oi
my friends communicated foom different parts of
Europe, as well as America—the apparent wish
of thole who were not entirely fatisfied with the
Conflitution in its present form, and an ardent de
sire, on my own part, to be inltrumental in con
ciliating the good "tl ill of my countrymen towards
each other, h;Vve induced an acceptance. Those
who know me best (and you, my fellow-citizens,
are, from your situation, in that number) know
better than any others, my love of retirement is
so great, that no earthly consideration, short of a
conviction of could have prevailed upon me
to i-epart Irom my resolution, " never more to take
any share in transactions of a public nature."
Fqr, at my agp, and in my circumstances, what
possible advantages could I propose to myfelf, from
einb.irking on the tempestuous and uncer
tain ocean of public life ?
I do not feel myfelf under the necessity of mak
ing public declarations, in order to convince you,
Gentlemen, of my attachment to yourselves, and
regard for your interests. The whole tenor of my
life lias been open to your iyfpection : And my past
actions, rather than my prefeiit declarations, mult
be the pledge for my future conduct.
In the mean time, I thank you mod sincerely
foj; the expreliions cf kindness contained in your
valed'.tovy address. It is true, just after having
Lade adieu to my domeltic connections, this tender
proof of your fiiendfhip is but too well calculated
Hill further to awaken my fen Ability, and increase
my regret, at parting from the enjoyments of pri
vate life. ,
A ll tliat now remains for me, is to commit my
felf and you, to the protection of that benificcnt Be
ing, who on a former occasion, hath happily bro't
us together, after a long and diftrefling Separation.
Perhaps the fame gracious Providence will again in
dulge us with the fame heart felt felicity. But
words, my Fellow Citizens, fail me. Unutterable
sensations muit then be left to more exprefiive si
lence, while, from an aching heart, I,bid you all,
my affectionate Friends, and kind Neighbours
farewell ! 6 '
G. WASHINGTON.
NATIONAL MONITOR.
NUMBER 11.
" No incidental events can make a nation little,
while the principles remain, that made it great."'
AS America is just fitting out in her political course
as a nation, it is oj infinite importance to her future
welfare, that her fir ft principles fiould be drawn from
tne pejt fobrceX —that they Jbould bear the 'wiprejjions of
trut. < and right reafon —Thefie are superior guides to all
' ex p cr -ince of ancient times—the force of precedent
and ; ower of example. ,
, r/ "i revolution of America is not the efeCi ofieaufes
that have operand to produce those mighty changes
•< whicr,i have marked the fluctuating periods of other na
tions. Ambition, fraud, and violence—-fuflion, ignor
ance, and accident, have at different intervals, boajled
tne power to overturn one kingdom, and erect and
efi-ablijh another ; but the dismemberment of this IVefi
\ Empire from tne crown of Britain, was the result
of fenthnent —a labor:ous investigation of the principles
oj Liberty, and the Rights of Humanity : Information
audwifdom marked the road—Juflice and fortitude fub
po'-ted our foot-jhps—and the favour of Heaven to our
spirit, enterprise, and bravery, carried us triumph a fitly
through.——-Crowned with Peace, Liberty, and Inde
pendence, fairy land, and Utopian profpeits, cheated
onv *e.tided imaginations, 'till-j/e almojl began to doubt
the eligibility oj our present situation, compared to our
former one.—Happily fir in and our posterity, ere the
Demon of Anarchy had worked up the 'political fillies
oj day to a phrenzy, we werearrefted in our career
to ruin—And now, what are our pro/pelfs ? All that
wifdorn, virtue, and patriotism, car fancy or def.re.
Diner!fied in principles, manners, v'iews.and habit's
bay, do im at this day feel the force ofi any of those
maxims as, a r.ation, which can make a people %reat ? J
think zee. do. If must be acnoiolidged, that a fii'ifi of
the importance of Government, to preserve life, liberty
end propTTty, appears to pervade the mind of the pc pie
t.:ro::gn t!:e Union. This is a proper foundation, upon
Which may be reared the pillars of National Tuftice,
National i appinef», and National Security: This
principle has produced wonderful effeOs already—and
it is the :jl baps on which to ere ft natioul habits
manners and sentiments. A proper idea, ofi the necel
fity and importance of a firm, efficient Government is
the ftrorgefi lamer to licentioufinefis,faClion,
and lojs oj freedom, that Deity itfilf can create : This
to f 'fk for America, which will render he,
durably great and glorious.
C.
P L X A N
Or THE
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES
A NATIONAL PAPER.
To be publiflitd at the seat of the federal government ,1
comprije, asjully as pofjiilt, the following Objects, viz. '
I. ARLY ana- nthenticK Accounts of the PROCEFnivr.
-L< of CONGRESS—'tsi-AWS, ACTS, iindRESOLLI in \n
: •mmuiiicatfd so as to rxji an HISTORY of the TR 4XI it t/,h'
2/ FEDERAL LEGISLATURE, X'AWIO.Y,/j®
11. Impartial Sketches of the Debates of Cono R[ss
IJI. ESSAYS upon the great fubjefls of Government in 6emrl i
nd the Federal Legiflatme in particular; also upon the n ahml , '
focal Rights of the American ci tizens, as found.duppnihti'
dcral or State Constitutions; all > upon every other Sul 'eft w h t I
inay appear suitable for newspaper difcuflion. J
I\ . A SERIES of PARAGRAPHS, calculated to catchtk.
■' LIVING M \NK ER S AS they rise," and to poin.t inc pn'oilct I
ttention to Objects that have an important reference tu dL.kt i
facial, and puhlick happiness. • /W > ,
V. The Intercftsof the Unite d States as connefled with their h
terary Inftltutions—religious and moral Objects —Improvtmtnt, \ 1
Science, Arts, EDUCATION and HUMANITY— their lor™
eatics, Alliances, Connexions, &c.
VI. Every /pedes of INTEL!. ICENCE, which may affect th
••••••• ;<" •'■■■" ■: ' !■'! >, oj /cl lical U\"ItRKTS,|
the AMERICAN REPUBLICK.
VII. A CHAIN of DOMESTICKOCCI'RRENCES,colltfttj
through the Medium of an cxtcnfive with the ret
peftivc Sta:cs. ,
VIII. A SERI FS of FOREIGN ARTICLES of INTELLI
GENCE, so connefttd, as to form a general Idea of tut lick Aim*
jßgaJlcrn Htmifphere.
IX. The STATE of the NATIONAL FUNDS t also of the IV.
DIV I DUAL GOVERNMENTS—-Courfts of Exchange P--
Current, 4c. 6
CONDITIONS.
I.
TIIF. G a ett kof the United St at eb Jhali be printed ai'jJ tf,
fame Letter, and on thejapi: Paper as this publication.
11.
ItJhatlbe pullfhed every WEDNESDAY ard SATURDAY, W
delivered, as may be directed, to every Subscriber in the city, on ttwfeita
111.
The price to Siifcribers (exclusive of postage) uill be THREE DOL
LARSpt. annum.
IV.
7 hefrjlfemi-annualpayment to be made in three months frmthtii.
fief ranee oj the jujl number. J f
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Will he received in aU the capital towns upon the Continent; Mittl/
City-Coffee-Houfe, and at No. 86, William-Street, untillhe ill
Of May,/rem which time at No. 9, Maiden-Lane, near the Otwcto.
Market, New-Y-rk. 6
N. B. By a new Arrangement made in the Stages, Subscribers ati
diilance will be duly furnilhed with papers.
f °"' r R r PT -~ ; targe impreffiem of every number mill he Jlruchif—
so that Subscribers may always be accommodated with complete bell.
To the P U B L I C K.
AT this important Crisis, the idfas that fill the
mind, are pregnant "with Events of the greatest
magnitude—to strengthen and complete the UNI
ON or the States— to extend and protedt their
COMMERCE, under equal Treaties yet to beform
ed—to explore arid arrange the NATIONAL
FU N D S—to restore and establish the PUBLICK
CREDI ] —and ALL under the auspices ofan un
tried System ot Government, will require the EN
ERGIES ct the Patriots and Sages of our Country—
Hence the propriety of encreafmg the Mediums of Knm
ledge and Information. 1
AMERICA, from this period, begins 1 new Era
in her national exillence—"the world is ah
bekore her"—The wisdom and folly—the misery
and prosperity of the EMPIRES. r 7ATES, and
KiNGDOMS, which have had their day tipon the
great rheatre of Time, and are now n# more,
fuggeftthe most important Mementos—Theft, with
the rapid series of Events, in which our ov. n Coun
try has been so deeply interested, have taught the
enlightened Citizens of the United States, that
FRE EDOM and GOVERNMENT—LIBERTY ami
LAWS, aie inseparable.
T nis C onviction has led to the adoption of the
:now Conltitution ; for however various the Sen
timents, refpetfting the MERITS of this System, all
good men are agreed in the neceflity that exists,
ofan'EFFICIENT FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
A paper, therefore, eftabliihed upon NATION
AL, INDEPENDENT, and IMPARTIAL PRINCI
PLES—which fliall take up the premiled Articles,
upon a Competent han, it is pr "fumed, will be
' *'g- *>' interesting, and meet with publick appro
bation and patronage.
S .ie Editor of thjs Publication is determined to
;eave no avenue of Information unexplored:—He v
solicits the assistance of Pevfons ofleifure and abili
ties—which, united with his own alliduity, he Hat
ters himfelf will render the Gazette of the United
States not unworthy general encouragement
and isj with due respect, the publick's humble ier-
JOHN F E NN 0.
X T ew-Yorh, April 1178^.
TWO YOLNO SPRIGHTLY LADS
ARE wanted, as APPRENTICES to the Bufinels
of Printing.
Err attire ?t Ho* 86, Wjlh^rn-Strett.^
Published by"|CH?Oi;NNO, No. 86, Wiu«*' .
Street, New-York.