No. XIV.
THE TABLE T. No. XIV.
« iVhatiiii ures the community,withoutdireClly appear
" ; t u,ohurt any individual, is very little thought
J
\ s the bulk of mankind do not feern to have a
A dii'pofition to rive their ready and effectual
operation in rendering the public revenue pro
ductive and adequate to the objeift for win h it is
instituted, it would lead one to conclude, that 110
1 sblic utility was derived from the revenue ; and
consequently, that men are under no obligations
of juitice for the payment of it. Those, who
draw this inference, will go on to observe, that
the common fenle and apprelienfion of the great
mass of the people can never be opposed to any
measure, that is just and ufeful; and that general
consent is the nioft infallible test, by which to
form our notions of right and wrong. Whatever
is built on the foundation of justice, mull coincide
with the common interests of men, and therefore
will meet with general approbation and fuppoit.
On the other hand, whatever is generally disliked
and opposed, cannot have i:s origin in public
utility, and has 110 just claim upon the property
or Services of men, to promote its operation and
success.
Those, who reason in this manner, have taken
onlyaloofe, fuperficial view of the subject. In
many cases, the common opinions and feelings
of mankind, furnifh a good standard of eflimation,
for the moral merit of iwftions. But we must not
mistake in our application of this principle ; nor
must we fupp' -e, the public opinion t.ally iin
variably, and in all inllances, what it appears to b;.
The affairs of government are complicated, and
he conduct of men, with refpeift to it, has a con
tradiiflory appearance. In the capacity ol indi
viduals, wefeel an aversion to restraint, and a 1 e
l't(ftancein making facrifices. When we aJI, not
merely as individuals, but as members of a com
munity, ii'v' feel a responsibility, in this
character, which accommodates itfelf to the ge
neral welfare. The common reason of the law
makers, while employed in the aci of legiilation,
becomes the tell: of propriety; rather than the ge
neral temper of those, over jvhom the law is to
operate. If the good effecft of the law
isfo obvious, that men in their private intercourse
with each other unavoidably difcem it, they will
acknowledge and applaud the justice of it. But
the benefits of revenue laws are not immediately
perceived by every individual; while the burdens
ate never concealed fromthe view of any one.
Nothing lias been more common, than for al
molt every member of the community to complain
ofcertain grievances, and to eleift representatives,
who participate of that spirit of complaint, for
the express purpose of obtaining relief; and yet
these fame representatives, upon a fair conlider
ation of the subject, have dropped their clamor,
and even laid further impositions upon their con
stituents. This illustrates the idea, that people
in their private capacity do not always perceive
the utility, or allow the justice of a measure ;
merely becaufethey have not been in a situation
to comprehend the reafons,upon which it is found
ed.
When there is a general prevalence of a prac
tice, that will be called unjust or vicious, by those
who view it upon the broad principles of justice
and virtue, it argues that the inutility of such
injustice, or vice, is not obvious and immediate ;
but so remote an;l indirect, as to escape common
observation. This is, mentioned to prove, that
public perception is not neceflarily a 'eft of the
rules of justice. The partial honesty of mankind
is well represented, in a late number of the Ame
rican Mufer.m. 1 will pursue some of the ideas,
that arefuggefted in that publication.
It is diverting to observe the diftindUons, that
some people practically make, with regard to their
moral estimation of actions. Some menarcfcru
poloully honeftin certain points,-while in others,
where there is 110 just ground of difference, they
throw of allreftaints of truth and honesty. They
are countenanced in their narrow fyfteni of mo
rality,by the common consent of their neighbors.
In the course of a journey, some time lince, I
pafied a few hours at the store of a country trader.
While I was there, several of his cuflomers came
N >ith waggon loads of grain. The trader direift
the bags to be emptied into a granary, in a
jart of the store occupied for that purpose. I ob
erved him enquire of each man, the quantity he
fought, and was so well fatisfied with their iti
ortnaiion, as to take the grain off their hands,
Without the trouble of meafuving it. This de
gree of confidence alirtle furpi i fed me,and led me
to aflt whether it was usual to purchase aiticles,
■e y:ng upon the word of the feller with refpetft
othe quantity. The trader afl'm ed me, that he
ft'ldom measured the grain,as it wis brought
From WEDNESDAY, May 2f, to SATURDAY, May 30, 1789.
to his llore ; that in some few instances he had
done it, but that he had not found any attempt
to deceive him. Many of his cuftoiners, he ob
served to me, would highly relent his Icrupling
their word in this matter ; and that it was gener
ally believed,no man in thatneighbourhood would
defraud another in the measure of grain. Soon
after this conversation ended, a man, whose ap
pearance was better than the other farmers, offer
ed to fell the trader an horse. The latter had as
great an inclination to buy, as the other had to
leJl ; but there seemed to be some difficulty infix
ing the value of the horse, and ascertaining his
age and qualities. The feller declared upon his
honor that what he afierted was true ; but the buy
er doubted all his declarations. I took an oppor
tunity of speaking to the trader on the fubjecft,
and told him, that I imagined the person, who was
about felling the horse, did not live in the fame
part of the country with the honelt grain-fellers.
The trader afi'ured me that he lived in the midst
ofthem ; that there was not a better man among
them all ; nor one, whose word he would sooner
take, in any matter that related to weight and
measure. But, replied I, you do not seem to be
lieve any thing he afierts refpedting his horse.—
" True," said he, " it is customary for people to
take all the advantage they can in the sale of an
horse, and to deceive the purchaser as to his age
and properties. The molt honest men in the
world do notfcruple to impose on one another in
this refpedt." From this anecdote I would infer,
that the common feelings andpradiice of men arc
not always a certain criterion oftliejuftice or util
ity of actions. As there are few men, who buy
horses, compared with rhofe who buy grain, the
general convenience and /afety of people do not
require them to make a common caufc of the de
ception, in both instances alike.
Another anecdote, hot lels applicable to the
lubjeel, may be introduced. I was once invited
to pais an evening, at the lioufe of a gentleman,
where there was to be a party at cards. Before
the play commenced, my friend allured me, that
I could depend 011 the utmost fairnefs in the game,
and that cach person woidd pundluaQy pay his
lolles, 011 the spot. 1 found it exadtly as was re
presented. 111 every inftance,where I won money,
it was readily paid ; and I could observe no attempt
or difpofitiontoplay unfairly. At the close ofthe
evening, a gentleman, who had been more unfor
tunate than usual, happened not to be in cash to
square the board. He exprefled great folicittide
to pay his arrears ; and addrefling himfelf to the
company, requested some one would be so oblig
ing as to lend him a few guineas, declaring in the
1110 ft solemn manner, it should be reimbursed early
the next morning. I did not hesitate to advance
the sum requested, being fully persuaded that a
person, who was so anxious to pay a demand, that
accidentally lay against liim by a run of ill luck,
andfo unwilling his honor fliould fuffer by a de
linquency, would be 110 less exadt in difcliarginga
debt; which he had voluntarily contracted t
the confidence and politeness of a stranger. Ihe
event, however, proved otherwise. 111 the morn
ing, as I was getting ready to pursue my journey,
I recollected the money I had lent; and desired
the landlord to inform me, where the borrower
could be found. The landlord, with a pertnefs
he had not before discovered, replied, " Air.
will not be out of his bed tliefe two hours ; have
you any business with him ?"—Nothing more, said
1, than to receive a little cash of him. " If you
wait till you get that," answered the landlord,
•' 1 would advise yon to become an inhabitant of
this place, and fend for your family at once. It
is a chance if you ever get a farthing of the money,
as Mr. never pays any debts, he can avoid."
But, continued I, you niuft be mistaken in this
man, he was very honorable in paying his lofles
at cards. " True," replied the landlord, " for
the rules of the club forbid any man to go away
in debt to the table. If he left any thing unpaid,
lie could no longer be a member ofthe club. Be
lides, he is often fortunate and carries away mo
ney, and when he loses, he can bofrow of some
person who is not acquainted with his character.
Thofc, who attend that gaming club, are honest
with each other, but they pay no regard to justice,
or veracity with any body else, only when they
are in the club room." I was not however dis
couraged by this information from an attempt to
get my money, and after importuning the land
lord tor some time, he permitted a negro boy to
take a note from me to Mr. . The boy liim
fclf so well convinced that his errand was in
vain, that he could not refrain from waggish ca
pers. He soon returned, and informed that Mr.
had told his servants, that he was not to be
seen till twelve o'clock.
I do not mention thel'e anecdotes as lingular 111-
ftanrcs ofthe partial view and practise of men,
in accommodating their ideas of right and wrong
to their particular iituation and convenience.—
Wherever we look, we find repeated and melan
choly confirmations of the • perfection of pre
vailing principles, and the perverfenefs of autho
rized habits. All clubs, or societies, how unim
portant or immoral soever they may be, have cer.
tain rules of honor and equity among themselves.
These are few or many, limited or extensive, in
proportion as the objects are so, which are to be
acconipliflicd by the ailociation. It is to be re
gretted that men, who are greatly attached to any
particular fed; or party, are apt to forget the du
ties they owe the community at large, and confine
their acts of ufefulnefs and their display of vir
tues within narrow limits. " Robbers and Pirates,
it has often been remarked, could not maintain
their pernicious confederacy, did they not eftab
lilh a new distributive justice among themselves,
and recall those laws of equity, which they have
violated with the reft of mankind."
I have been thus diffufive, and thrown the sub
ject into such different ligh.s, that I might make it
fully evident there are various instances in which,
our sentiments of duty are not co-extensive with
the objects of it. There is no cafe, that I have
fpecified, in which our ideas of obligation are more
erroneous and deficient, than those, which relate
to a discharge of the demands, that are laid upon
us by the revenue laws. Our inventive faculty
is artfully displayed in finding excuses to juftify
actions, that are committed through the impulses
of interest or palfion.
If the principles of this discussion are just, they
will impress on the minds of virtuous citizens,
the importance of setting such examples and dif
fufing such maxims, as will convince the bulk of
the people, that their duty and their honor are
concerned in a punctual payment of the public
taxes, in whatever form they are imposed. They
will likewise contribute to convince men at the
helm of affairs, that in to obtain the con
currence of their conllituents, in supporting the
execution of the laws, the public adininiftration
lhould be marked with no a (ft, that is capricious,
oppreflive, or unnecefiary. In addition to causes
of a permanent nature, that induce men to doubs
the utility or the justice of revenue law#, there
are often adventitious circumstances that alienate
the affections of people from the measures of go
vernment. Of this description, are extravagant
or useless appropriations ; injudicious or super
numerary appointments of officers ; neglectful,
dishonest or overbearing conduct in those, who
are scattered through the different branches of the
executive department.
> A SKETCH OF THE POLITICAL STATE OF AMERICA.
[Continued from No. X.]
It is with nations as with individuals, that the
firftfootfteps generally mark their future progress.
This reflection, strongly evinces the neceflny of
commencing our political course, on proper and
wsll etiabliihed principles, and of moulding our
selves into that form, which promises the great
elt future strength and vigour.—There are cer
tain general principles of a moral kind, immuta
ble in their nature, and invariable in their ef
fects : the practice of which will ever tend to the
happiness of a nation wherever and however situ
ated; but in recurring (as is frequently the cafe)
to the practices of other nations, for light and*
information upon the various fubjecfts of go
vernment, and the grounds on which to form
our plans of adininiftration, without adverting to
a proper diftincftion of those circumstances which
form the political character, as local fituation,edu
cation, manners and customs, religious tenets,
ideas of government and national genius, we
maybe often led to a falfe deduction of principles
as applied to our own country.—Roman virtue,
and Athenian republicanifin,have been repeatedly
urged as models highly worthy our imitation ;
wliile,hadwe implicitly adhered to the maxiinsof
the former, a W ashingtoh mull have the
fate of Camillus, because he had saved his country;
and in compliance with the principles of the lat
ter, anADAMS, like Ariftides, mufthave beenba
nifhed for having defervedtoowell of his fellow
citizens: what less than a radical defect in theprin
ciples of those antient governments, could have
led to such great errors in their practices but as
far as these or like errors in antient or ljiodern
governments, can be avoided by a judicious com
parjfon, an illusion to them will be attended with
material benefit; while their virtues may also be fe •
lected with care. America is yet unskilled in those
intrigues of policy, which so warmly engage all
Europe, and many other parts of the world, and
being by nature happily lituated at a distance
from them, itmuft be officioufnefa alone, which
can lead* her into any material concern with
PRICE SIX PENCE.their politki—her own at present demand a mo
nopoly oi iier attention and ingenuity ; but as far
as J lie can make her Commerce with foreign na
tions lublervient u> her interelt, found policy
prompts the connection.
The present government of the United States,
defer vedly pofleHes .111 extenlive ibare of the con
■ulence of the people—it remains now for thole
who are to adihinifter it, to complete that confi
dence, by the purliiit of thoi'e which
lliall tend to eitablifh. the belt iiuerelts of the na
tion, 011 a permanent basis : and here let me in
dulge the wish, that they would divelt themselves
of those local prejudices, and partial or Itate views,
which have already brought this country to the
verge oi'ruin ; and fondly clieriffi national ideas,
and national principles—which will alone les.d
10 the great objects for which they were conlli
tuted.—No one will pretend to deny, that on a
:irm and complete union, the future happinel's
of Ala erica is Appended ; a fear to exercile, in a
foil latitude, the powers veiled in
the general government, may be attended with
unfavorable consequences; ;-nd perhaps it were
better those powers had never been deputed,
than that they Ihould not be exercised when ne
cellary—as the community will be proportiona
lly disappointed, in not realizing those advanta
ges, to obtain which they have expressly delega
ted the beforementioncd authorities, and those
defe<fts which result from the adininiftrition, will
be fuppol'ed to ex ill in the principles of the fyft
ein.—The full iinpreliions are coinmonlv "the
molt pervious and lasting, and if timidity ihoald
charaifterife the early proceedings of the nation
al government, it will be difficult to determine,
at what future period the proper cnevgv and ne
ceilary decilion, appertaining to all good govern
ments,. will commence, and it would evidently
bespeak a diffidence in oUr rulers of the recftitude
and propriety of that inflitutioii, which we have
looKed to as our ark of fafetyj tenacious of
the opportunity ; faction would be likely
to rear its hydra head, and once more hope for a
riotous display of its These are among the
many evils which might ariie to deftroyour pro
mifed happiness at home—but here they do not
end.—Will not our boalled of refpeclability
and importance,with the reft of the world, vanhh ?
and will not foreign nations beyetfearful of en
tering into any negotiations wiih us ; neceflarily
diftruiting our refpr,ifibi!ity, while they find ns
incompetent toonrinternal government? A wish
to disclose the evils which inult result from an
inefficient administration—rather than tlie ex
pectation of feeing them realized, has led to the
foregoing observations. AMERICAN IjS.
— be j> —- —
KXTRACT FROM " AMLRiCAM ESSAYS."
On CfIMMERC E. [Coutiriuiition.]
AN extenlive and flcruriihing Commerce, will
alio, sooner or later, beget colonization, and there
tore naturally induces l'ome observations on that
subject, in which, from its intimate and impor
tant connection with commerce, jhe United States
cannot but consider themselves deeply interested.
The Co/onL-s of federal of the now
European kingdoms, may be fairly allowed at
this day, to be the almost sole support of their
commerce, and the 1110 ft certain, and most fruit
ful, if not the only source, of their riches and
lirength,: Some of then-are so largely indebted
to their foreign dominions, for their present
power, riches, and consequence, that no other
fatisfadtory caiafe, or reason, can be assigned, or
conceived, why they have not long ere now,
become the most infignificaHt p-ovinces of their
more powerful neighbours. The whole amount
of the customs in England, even so late as in the
beginning of the reign of Elizabeth, did not
exceed the sum of 40,0001. per annum, sterling
Germany, France, Spain, and Portugal, supplied
the Englilh with every luxury, and with almost
every neceflary manufacture ; and the Venetians
and Genoese, with Ealt-India goods, at an im
inenfe price ; the legal interest of money was 10
per cent.—and when compared with foine other
.European States, whom they now hold in con
tempt, the English may be said, with refpedt to
niany improvements, to have been at that era
in a state of infancy or barbarity ; but as soon as
rhey became sensible of the importance of Colo
nies, and wifely turned their attention to efta
blilh and encourage them, they began, from that
]«eriod, to emerge from obfeurity, and rapidly to
increase in riches and power, till they rivalled
every nation 011 the globe, in maritime strength.
extent of commerce, and arietv and perfection
of ruamifadhtres; and London is now irtftly con
ihleted, tin world's great v/art; and though some
of the British Colonies owe their origin to the
folly, or frenzy, and were peopled against the
will of the mother country, yet they were no
sooner ellablilhcd, than they became a ccnftant
lource of her riches, and increase of power: If
if ihould be asked, why the Englilh have so soon
: ivalled those nations, who were not only pof
iefled of, but greatly enriched by their Colonies,
before those of the Briti/h were planted; I an-
Iwer—that om probable, ar.d perhaps principal
cause, tliat may be alligned, appears to me tee be
the prevailing religion of that country, -which
circuniitance alone, indisputably gives them
many temporal advantages over thole countries
profeffing tlie Roman Catholic religion,, where
religious duties engross a larger (hare of the peo
ple's time : it lias even been oblerved, by the li
beral profellors of that religion, that frequent
avocations, and holy-days, naturally lead to idle
habits, and an averfioii to labour, very percep
tible in all Roman Catholic countiies. Jn foine
ot" the Cantons of Switzerland, nature has been
rather sparing of her favors to the foil; yet whei e
the inhabitants are principally Calvinilts, it has
been oblerved, that trade, agriculture, and ma
nufactures, flourilh much more than in those that
are chiefly inhabited by Roman Catholics, even
where nature has been far more bountiful. —Vaiious
are the chronological accounts of ancient times
and nations ; and though it is here of 110 great
importance to be very accurate wifih relpect to
dates, yet it may be fairly allowed, that nine
hundred years at least hrye rolled away, since
Scotland was united under one Monarch ; which
long period had produced'no material commer
cial improvements, or incfeale of wealth, or
power, in that covntry, till a few years iince, not
far exceeding half a century, when the Scotch
wifelj oegau to pi ofit of :'ieir union with Eng
land, by a pavticipation in the commerce wiili
the Britiih Colonies : From this memorable epoch,
the increase of their trade and manufactures has
been so aftonilbingly great and rapid, that they
are now become of vail importance to the com
mercial world, and have excited luch a national
spirit of agricultural improvements, that vail
tradts of barren country, which for time imme
morial had remained totally ulelels, being deem
ed incapable of cultivation, have, by the help of
art, indulhy, and increase of wealth, the fruits
of commerce, been- transformed into fruitfulfields-;
and where,
u Far as the eve coti!d r. aeh, no tree was seen
" Earth, eled in ruiret, fewU'd tht lively green."
Villa s, and villages, and Groves, are lpread ; and
roly health, anil jocund plenty reign, where
meagre famine, for ages, held her solitary court,
and leenied to claim a natural and exclusive rigfit.
E. c..
(To be continued.)
i 4
SCANDAL FROM HAY LEY.
Scandal, a restless fiend, who never kuow ,
The balmy blefling ot ar> hour's repose, v
Worn, yetunfatcd with her daily toil,
In hir kale work*T:onfumes thejn id night oil.
O'er fiercer fiends when heavy {lumbers creep,
Wheu wearied avarice and ambition sleep,
Scaadal is vigilant, and keen to ipread
The plagues that.fpring.from her prolific head.
On Truth's fair bails Ihe her falfehood builds,
With tinsel lent indent its furface gilds ;
To nightly labour from their dark abodes
The demons of the groaning press she goads,
And smiles to fee their rapid art fuppiy
'Srn thousand winq* to every infant lie.
SKLThH of tkULEt.DINui, of CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of tht
UNITED STATES.
Wednesday, May 21, 1789.
AGREEABLY to the order of the day,the House
went into a committee of the whole 011 the ton
nage bill.
It was moved by Mr. Thatche r , that the enaift
ing clause, " The Congress of the United States"
(hould be struck out—and "The Senate and House
of Representatives ofthe UnitedStates,in Cono- re fs
aflembled" substituted.—This motion after some
discussion was lolt.
A mellage was received from the Senate, inform
ing, that they had appointed a committee to join
with a committee ofthe House, to determine and
report a mode of receiving meflages from The
President.
A motion was made to insert in the Tonnage
Bill a clause, by which all veflels, not built in the
United States, which may become the property ol
the citizens thereof, shall be fubjedl to an impolt
of 50 cents :—This palled in the affirmative.
Amotion was made to limit the duration of this
bill, which was debated and finally loft.
A clause was added,providing ior its commence
ment the 15th of June, next.
Mr. Fitzsim on s, from the committee appoint
ed to bring in a bill tor the ceL'effion ofthe Reve
nue, reported a d 1 aught, which was read for the
firft time. Adjturued.
Thvrsday, May 28.
Mr. Scott moved, that the House now resolve
itfelf into acommirtee of the whole on the state of
the Union—to take into consideration thefubjetfi
ot the Land Office—when, he oblerved. he fliould
submit certain refblutions to the consideration of
the committee.
Several memWrs observing that this motion
woukl mreiiere-w id* the Order of the day, and
might, initsuif'cuifion, fupej-cede other im<H>u. i
buhnefs immediately before the House the Oi
der of the day was called tor, anil taken up, ev
reading the 'J onnage Bill,with thefevei'alai,,enu
nients and alterations agreed to in committee
tliefe alterations were adopted by the lioufe and
the bill ordered to be engrolled,for a third readiii.
The Houle then resolved itfelf into a committee
oftlie whole, on che motion of Mr. Scott.
Mr. Scot r o'olerved, that the itate of the Fe
deral Treal'ury was such, as made it necellary] that
lomething lhould speedily be done with reined to,
difbofing of the Western Territory: The ltate
of a certain contradtfor averylarge l'ale, through,
the incompleteness of thelurveys, ami odier cau
ses, by which payment had been delayed of a
million of dollars into the public ciiell, while the
interest on so much of the debt was accumulating
was another reason for foine immediate lteps be
ing taken with regard to that property.—Jt was
rendered necellary by the nature of the plans,
which had been adopted in the faies heretofore
made—Thole lands had been difpo'fed of in too
large quantities—to the greatly impeding their
letclement:—This had operated to discourage
great numbers who had moved off, towards trie
VVeftern Waters—Upwards of 7000 fouls, except
relieved by some favorable regulations,-\vliku
lliould prevent the engroiiingfuchiinmenfetr.au
by individuals, would ihordy be 101 l to the Unite;;
States—They will either throw themlelves intu
the Spanilh government, and become their fub
jeiTts—or they will combine,' and give theinfelves.
poflcflion of that territory ( which they are now
willing to purchnle) and defend themlelves in it
agi'inlt the power of the union.
Mr. Scot r further informed the House, that
overtures had been made to tliefe people by other
powers, to his certain knowledge, and great en
couragement proniifed, provided they would put
themlelves under their jurifdidtion : This, he
conceived, would be a very unhappy circumltance
tor the United States : Such enemies in the heart
□f our country, would be more dangerous than
any foreign power :—All these embarrassments,
and difficulties arise from their not being able to
purchase lands in (mall quantities : It never could >
be the intention of Congress, that this Ihould be
the cale : Million acre purchasers are but few—
and the present mode,if adhered to,will be attend
ed with fatal consequences : Congress now has it
in their power to obviate every difficulty: These
people alk their protection: They will, if pro
tected and encouraged, be obedient and loyal fub
jedts—they wiih for a Constitution, Laws, and
Government ; but if negledted, they will be 101 l
to the States.— fhcfe things plainly point out the.
necessity cf a new arrangement, and of eitablifli
ing a Land Qffice in that country —for it will be
impoflible for the people in thole remote regions
to travel agreat diltance to transact their buluiefe-
Scott then read a refolutiontothis effect.
1 hat it is the sense of this committee that an ac
of Congress ought to pass, eltablilhingand regu
lating a LAND OFFICE, forthe sale of vacant and
unappropriated lands in the Western Territory,
1 his was followed by several others, exhibiting
the outlines of a Bili for thepu rpofe.
Mr. Boudinot objedted to the resolve, so far
as it confined the idea to the institution of a Land-
Office—he moved, therefore, that the words
' Land-Office" be struck out—that the committee
might take up the business upon the moll exten
live scale He oblervecl, that limiting tliem to
tins fnnple idea, might interfere with former ar
langements, which it would be extremely diffi
cult to alter the eflablifhiritent also of such an
office, may be rendered entirely fuperfhious, in
as much as the conducting of this bulxnefs, might
with the utinoft propriety come under the cog
nizance of one of the three great departments, al
ready ellabliihed.
Mr. Vining fnpported the idea of a Land-
Office; and adverting to the ob'fervations.which,
had fallen from Mr. Scott, said, that it appeared
to hiin, that the exigencies of the cafe were such
as would admit of no delay : That such an insti
tution was highly necellary—and the only one
that held out a profpecft of seasonable and ade
quate relief.
Mr. Cl. ym e r observed, that the fubjedt before
the committee was very intricate and extensive—
that it would require a very elaborate difcuflion
to i.iiin a competent system— much more so, than
the committee was then prepared to invelligate —
Y e ~ the propriety of taking meafui es to
dupofe ol the lands in finall quantities, as it
would interfere with the sales already made un
lei the ordinances of Congress.—He moved,
therefore, that the committee should rife.—The
motion for riling was seconded.
Mr. Madison obfcrved, that he was not op
posed to the riling of the committee, but rather
m favor of it, that time might be given to ob
tain more accurate information; but as,Mr,
scott had given the committee very important
intelligence, which no doubt refpedted fadts, and
of a very serious import, he fnggelted the pro
pi lety of paying the earliest attention to the bu
linefs.
The committee then rose—and the Speaker res
umed the chair.Itv.ib then inoveii, that a ieledt committee be
jiow appointed, to enquire into the Hate of the
unappropriated lands m the WciLern Territory,
•jnd 10 repoit what Heps are neceflary to betaken
for the sale of those lands.
This motion was opposed upon various grounds :
gome considered it as an expedient to get rid of
ihebulinels; others contended that it entered in
to the decilion of a queltion, as to the sale of the
lands, which the committee were in no meaf'ure
fullkiently informed to determine—The motion
after coniiderable difculfion, was divided, and
ihe latter clayfe, negatived.—A committee was
then appointed agreeably to the firlt part, con
gfting of Mr. Sco rT, Mr. Hunt in gdon, and
JVjr. SHERMAN.
Mr. Heis/Ter introduced a resolve to the fol
lowing eifeift, That every such member of this
present Congress as is not furnilhed with the jour
nals of Ihe late Congi els, upon application to
the keeper of the records, be furiiiflied with a
complete set of i'ucli journals.
Tnis rel'olve was adopted unanimoully
Mr. Sen ey then moved, that the report of the
joint committee upon the I'ubjecft of news-papers,
and printing, which had lain feverul days on the
tabic, lhould be taken up.
This report being read, the firft part which
orovides for supplying every member of Congress
with " one news-paper" at the public expence ;
was objected to—a variety of observations were
made, and the clause finally rejected—the latter
part respecting the public printing, and giving
power to the Clerk of the House, and Secretary
of the Senate, to form the neceflary contract;
was adopted, aud then the House adjourned.
Friday, May 29.
The engrofled bill, imposing a duty on ton
nage, was read the third time—and palled.
Mr.Partridge, from the committee appoint
ed to confer with the Senate, on a proper mode
of receiving bills and meiiages from the Prelident,
reported— fhat until the public offices are efta
blilhed, and proper officers appointed, meflages
or bills may be received by either House, untter
cover, directed to the President of the Senate, or
the Speaker of the Houle of Representatives
This report, with some amendments, was ac
cepted. .
A motion was then made, that the bill regu
lating the collection of the revenue, lhould be
considered in a committee of the whole, 011 Mon
day next. —This palled in the affirmative.
Mr. White introduced an amendment of
the rule of the House, relpeCting the ap
pointment of committees by ballot—lt was pro
posed, that all committees lhould be appointed by
the Speaker, except when the House lhould order
otherwile.
This was objected to by divers members—and
advocated by others :—Several modifications were
prcpoibd, as expedients to get rid of the mode of
balloting, which was considered as tedious, and
occasioning unnecellary loss of time;—but after
some spirited observations 011 both lides the ques
tion, Mr. Wkite's motion, with every qualifi
cation of it, was loft by a large majority—and
the rule of the House remains as it originally
Hood Adjourned until Motiday next.
1 The following Selection ofMISCELLANEOUS
INTELLIGENCE, from European and American
papers, comprises the whole, that our limits will
permit us to insert this clay.]
LAST-ISDIES.
At Delhi, a revolution was effe&ed in September, by the Ro
nilla Confederates, aided by one of their moil daring Chiefs,
Cholan Kadar Cawn, taking advantage of Madajee Scindia's re
miffnefg, in negle&mg to station a proper number of troops round
the city.
The confequencrs were truly terrible to the unfortunate old
lung, whose eyes the inhuman Chief deprived him of, putting
iiv; robes ot royalty at th£ fame time on one of his creatures, Ack
rocd Shaw.
•Sctnd'.a did not long leave the tynnt in poflcflion of Delhi; he
very shortly gained, not only a compleat victory over the Rohillas.
ut pofTcflion of the 11ty< The modern B.ijafcet, Gholan Kadai
wn ! saved himfelf by an rapid flight. v
The Mahvattah Chief, Scindia, in consequence of this riflory,
't is thoiight, v. ill regain his wonted influence in the Upper Pro
vinces, and the miferablc eyelcis Monarch of Delhi once more be
rellortd to his throne and regal power.
Tne young Prince of Delhi, Johander Shaw, lived not to behold
Royal father's miseries; he fell a victim in June, to the
, warmth of the climate, having over-heated himfelf in a piousex
curiion to Chunar.
London, March 31. Government have refo'ved to pursue the
ian , t e ydown iome time fmce, in refpeft to the Governorsot
1C uluclc nt fcttlements in India ; who are to reside only a cer-
T| in f Ti'' l ' lc ame as ' s customary with the Viceroys of Ireland.
10. em of peculation, so long unhappily pursued in that part
,le 6'°" e > by this step alone ? compleatly done away.
WARREN HASTINGS, Esq.
totS -V ° U ent a me 'fage by the Mailers in Chancery,
c . t C mrnons ) 'nfornaing them of their determination to pre
fer w V* tf arrcn Haft ngs,onTucfday the 21ft of April.
it "j ln £ s has treftntcd a mojl ingenious and affctting petition to
fit the A 1 s >P ra )'* a S that his trial may be proceeded in, and
W <d > mtiortany future interritptions.]
h of a-letter from Madrid, February 13.
nunibr-r f 1 °k u ,g 1S the P resent fta * e of the kingdom: The
forccsr °r a ln " a kitants 10 millions and half ; our military
. 'nfantry, 18,360 cavalry, and 10,208
battallif n on 8 ln ? King'shoulhold, exclusive of thirty-three
Pauits r»n °a S-l* 1 ? com Pa nics of invalids, and some com
-1 ichcletts. Our marine forccis arc corhpcied of 72
fliips of tli,; line, »iz. nine of 112, one of no, three of 04.
ot 08 forty-two ot 74, fcvcn of 68, and two 64 guns, w°.th
torty-fix frigates, sixteen zebecks, &c. in all 238 thips of war,
which together carry 8984 guns, and they arc (till building a
arge number, at Cadiz, Carthagena and ferroll. The' revenues
ot the crown amount to 30 millions of piaftr, s.
t accldental oiniiriou of a number in the dray/ing of the late
lriih lottery, is like to be produ&ive of very serious °consequen
ces Ihe number, it appears, was not put into the wheel* The
nrit legal authorities in that kingdom have been consulted, and the
leading opinion amongst them is, that the lottery should be drawn
over again. The confufion attendant on such a measure, it is much
more ealy to imagine than describe.
n Ji k ac kwardnefs otthe present spring, is lik ly to be
productive of the worst conferences to the northern parts of this
ea , fttTn COast Scotland, is at this moment covered
with Inow, and the usual tillage cannot take place for some time ;
a late leed time, always occafrons in that country a late, and from
the ihortnefsoi the fummer,a lcaoty harvelt.
A negociatlon, it is said, has lor foine time past beef! 011 the ta
pis in London, for the exchange of Canada with France, for the
1 Hands of Guadaloupe and Marie Gallante in the Welt-Indies.
arious opinions are tormed refpe£ling the expediency and ad
vantages that may accrue to Great-Britain by this exchange.
INTELLIGENCE FROM ER'AXCE.
I RANSLATED from THE COURI ER J)E LONDRESi
February 25, 1789. THE three orders of the Provinces of
amtonge and Arigoumom, being met in general alfembly, the
c ' r ,>) nobility have unanimously voted to renounce all pecu
niae privilrrjes 111 taxation, and to bear any public expences in
common with the third, rjlate. As to the manner of voting in the
States-General (per or by order) the opinions were divided ;
and it was to iubmit, in this point, to the decilion of his
Majcity.
Ihe following resolution deserves to be noticed *
I iie Nobility ot Houlfillon, duly aflemblcd, considering that
its members are men and citizens before they are Nobles, and being
deiirous to give to their fellow-citizcnSy of the third ejhte, a con
vincing proof ot their dilpohtioni to cement the union between
J or trs have unanimously agreed on the lolemn resolution to
pay, on the principles of a perfect equality, smd each of them in
proportion to their fortune, the imports and general contribu
tions ot the province, without any pecuniary exemption ; re
in- 4l i t0 themfelves <> nl y the sacred rights of property, and those
Jiltindlions which are nccetrary in a monarchy, in order to iup
port the rights and liberties of the people, the'refpeel due to tiie
Sovcieign, and the authority of the laws."
We may form an idea of the principles upon which the States-
Gen. rj of France will ellablifh iheir Hrlt deliberauons, from the
Allowing extract of the public inftruftions, given by the Duke of
Orleans to his Reprefcntatitres.
1. Individual liberty. No manfttall be imprisoned but by the
srdinary course of law. It lhall be death tor any person to arrift,
3r caule to be arretted, any citizen without the interference of Ins
natural judge.
a. The liberty of the p*efs, considered as a p'art of individual
liberty; with such rcfludions, however, as the States-General
lhall think proper.
3. Property fliall be sacred, and no man der rived of jt, even
for the public good, withouf a fudicieni comp ufation.
4. No tax or impoll (hall be levied without the special consent
if the States-General of the nation i the grant of ltlch tax or im
pofl lhall be limited to the time of the next nieeting of the States
lo that, if no such meeting tak.es place, the said tax or impoik
lhall not be continued.
.5. The periodical ineeting'of the States-General to be fixed on
short terms.
6 I lie Ministers (hall be to the Statees in all matters
elntive to the finances, and to the laws of the country.
7. The public debt lhall be coqfolidatcd.
8. The tax (hallfbe laid equally on every citiz'enof the kingdom.
9. Xloimpoll (hall be granted, until all the mealures, relativeto
public and private libtrty, (hall have been agreed upon.
AMERICA.
Baltimore, May 22. The amiable Lady of our beloved
President arrived in tiiisplaceon Tuesday Evenin;,and set out
arly next morning for New-York. She was met at Hammond's
crry by ft veral of our citizens, and received by luch other demon
rat ions of affection and refpeft as her (hort ftav admitted. Fire
works were difchargrd before and after supper. and (he was se
renaded by an excellent band of Music, conduced by gentlemen
)f the town. Wefhall only add, that, like her illuilrioushulband,
(he was cloathcd in the manufaflure of our country, in which her
native goodnefj and patriotism appeared to the greatest advantage.
Philadelphia, May 26. Intelligence being received on
Thursday lafl, by an express appointed foi that purpose, that the
Consort of our illustrious President was on her way from Jlount-
Vernon to New-York, and would breakfaft at Cheltrr next morn
ing—the t,wo city troops of light-dragoons paraded early on Fri
day, and marched to form her escort. His Excellency the Presi
dent ot the State, artd the Hon. the Speaker of the Airembly. at
tended bv anumerous suite of gentlemen 011 hoik back, preceded
the troops—and the whole halting ten miles from the city, wai
ted the approach of this mtich-refperted Personage. While they
paid the compliment ot military honors due to her exalted rank
they offered a (till more grateful tribute of heartfelt regard to the
amiable virtues, which dtftinguilh and adorn her character. The
present occasion recalled the remembrance of those interfiling
scenes, in which, hy her presence, (he contributed to relieve the
cares of our beloved Chief, and to soothe theanxiousmoments of
his military concern—giatitude marked the recolleclion, and every
countenance bespoke the feelings of affeilionatc relpeft.
Seven miles from the city (lie was met by a brilliant company
of ladies,in carnages,who attended her to Gray's Ferry, on Schuyl
kill, where an elegant entertainment of upwards of one hundred
covers was prepared at a few hours notice. The repafl being fi
n 1 thee;, the procellioii was recommenced ; and the corps of artil
lery, being formed on their parade near the city, fainted with a
discharge of 13 cannon—the bells were rung, and a joyous con
courleof citizens welcomed, with affeftSmate (houts, the much
refpe&ed and beloved Mrs. Washington to Philadelphia.
Mrs. [Robert] Morris having met her honored guest at Dar
by (8 miles from town) condufled her to her house in Market-
Street, where, taking leave of her escort, Mrs. Walhington, in the
molt gracious manner, thanked thetroops ft* their polite attention.
Havingfixed her departure for ycllerday morning, the troops
paraded, with an intention to el'rort her to Trenton—His Excel
lency the President of the State, and many gentlemen on horseback
attending, at ten o'clock the proccffion moved from Mrs. Morris's
house, who, in her own carriage, accompanies Mrs. Walhington
to New-York. The weather proving rainy, (he requested that
the troops might retui n ; and they took a refpeflful leave of her a
few miles from the city.
During her short (lay in Philadelphia, the citizens have vied with
each other in deinondrationc of refpeftful attachment to this mod
amiable woman.
ARRIVALS AT BOSTON.
Ship Diarina Folgier, in 40 days from St. Jago. left at Ifleof
May, Capt. Bcntley, of Providence, a brig belonging to Mr. W.
Gray, of Salem, and others.
Capt. Magec, from Salem, arrived at St. Jago, March 15, and
21 (I failed for Canton. Ship Ceres, Sturges, atfived 16th, and
24th failed for Bombay.
NEW-YORK, MAY 30, 1789,
Wednesday arrived in this city from Mo tint
Vernon, Mrs. WASHINGTON, the amiable con
font of Thf. President of the United States.
Mrs. Walhington from Philadelphia vas accom
panied by the Lady of Mr. Robert Morri* At
Elizabethtown point ihe was met by the The
I resident, Mr. Morris, andfeveral other gen
tlemen of diftint r tion, who had gone there for
that purpose.—She was conducted over the bay in
the President's Barge, rowed by 15 eminent pilots,
in a liandfoine white dress ; 011 palling the I>at
Ctry a salute was fired ; and 011 her landing fhe
was welcomed by crowds of citizens, who'had
allembled to teftify their joy 011 this hupeyoccn
fion.
Tiie principal ladies of the city have, w : !h the carlieft attention
and refpeft, paid their devoirs to the amiable consort of our belov
ed Presiuent, \\y. The Lady ot His Excellency the Governor—
Lady Sterling—Lady Mary Warn—Lady Kith Duet—La Marcr.iorfcji
de Brehan—the Ladies of the Molt Hon. Mr. Langdon, ai;d t:ic* %
Most Hon. Mr. Da I ton—the MayoreJ]—Mrs. Lnongjietfof Clu
inont—Mrs. Ctwnc-Uor L : vingJlon—the Miss Livirtgfms—Lad,
Tempic—Madam de la ForeJI —Mrs. Montgbrneriy—Mrs. Knox Mr .
Thornpfon—Mrs, Gerry—Mrs. Edgar—Mrs. M'Comb—Mrs. Lyrtch—
Mrs. lloujion—Mrs. Crf i-Mrs Provojl—t.ic Mil's ■Bayardj, and.
a great number of other refpettablc, chuta&e s.
Although The PuiStDKN r m.kes no formal invitation?, yet
the day after the arrival of Mrs. Washington, the following
diftin»uithed pertonages dined at his house; er fanille. Thtir
Excellencies the Vice-PrefideuS«-the Governor of this State the
Ministers of fiance and Spain—and the Governor of trie W'efteui
Territory—the Hon. Secretary of the United States for foreign
Affairs—the Most Hon. Mr. Langdon, Mr. Wingaic, Mr. Izard,
Mr. few, and Mr. M-n/enhirg, Speaker of the Hon. House of
Rcprelcntatives 01 tne United States.
The President s Levee yesterday, was attended by a very
numerous.and most refpeftible company—The circumtunce of
tlie President's entering the Drawing Room at 3 o'clock, 110:
being universally known, occalioned some inaccurracies as D
the time of attendance.
By a gentleman who arrived a few days since from Boston, w:
are happy to learn, that a favourable disposition prevails towards
the proceedings ot Congress, as far as they had then been commu
nicated. It was a general determination to support the revenue
laws and to difcourucnance every fpecics of fraud or opposition
against the iinpoftfyttem. This resolution which was palled, (a*
tar ascurfofy and repeated conversation in which fentimenu
weie honetfcly exprefied, and tending to the fame point, can be caU
iad a resolution) under the lull expeitation that the impost would
be laid in a just and reasonable manner ; and whatever Ihape it
may wear after pufTmgboth Houses, they will no doubt be a good
dilpofition in its favour, among the grpat body of
people.
Wc arelikewife happyin hearing from the foutliern States, that
the minds of the people are accommodating thcmfelves to the
measures of the new government, and all denominations of citi
zens anticipate better times, as they well know nothing contr.-
l.utes so essentially to make timeigood, as such law's as will cncoe
ragc indullry, reward the etteits ot enterprise and genius, and'
bear tcftimony against the idle, thevicious, and extravagant. The"
good examples are fct, by loine diilinguiftud characters, of
order, ceconomy,- and diligence, will pioduce most beneficial
etfefts.
In tracing the historic page, a thousand years contrast into a
very limited compals—" We mcafure time by ideas"—And to
form some competent idea of the exiftcnce of States and Empires,
we inuft attend to those events which have marked the feveralpe
riods of their existence—a long series of ages have rolled over'he
States and Kingdoms of the Eastern Hemilphere, fmce they were
firft noticed by the pen ot hiftoiy; —but their tranfa&ions, their
improvements in knowledge, wildom, arts and humanity, make
no elevated figure in their annals—a smooth stream of oblivion has
rolled over them, from age to age, except when interrupted by
that touleft of all imputations u"pon human nature, War-—and has
left us little to learn from, or to admire.—But the cafe is far othei
wife with America, every page of the volume of independence
unfolds some thing new, great and glorious—and there is every
icafon to suppose, that conttafted with the dark ages of bigotry
and cnthufiatm, if ideas lengthen the period of life, American's
may realize an antediluvian existence.
Extract of a letter from the State of Rhode-IJland,
* dated May 23, 1789.
'' Ihe enemies of the Federal Government,
triumph more than ever in this State, since the.
bill palled the House of lleprefentatives of Con
greft, for levying a duty on all foreign merchan
dise, exported from this to any other State. As
that bill exempts articles that are the growth and
manufacture of this State, from being fubjec't to
impost, it places the farmers who are generally
antifederaiifts in just such a situation as they have
wished. They now derive all the benefits that
the new government is capable of producing by
encouraging the lale of domestic articles ; while
they are not exposed to any of its inconveniences.
—In addition to this reason, they are exceeding
ly gratified at such a stroke levelled against the
mercantile interest. Thelegiflature of this State
have laid duties iunilar to what Congress impose.
Our merchants therefore pay duties at home in
the firft instance, and afterwards in the State, to
which they export such goods. This operates
peculiarly hard, and will, I fear, be a means of
hindering our inaiority from, consenting to have a
convention called, as they take pleasure in fee
ing the merchants crulhed. They fay they have
greater advantages without entering into the
union, than they could derive by becoming a
member of it, I hope Congress will consider our
situation and put the different dalles of people in
this State in a predicament equally disagreeable,
by Subjecting domestic articles to a fimilarimpofi
tion as they do foreign, that are exported from
this, to any other State. Such a measure would
soon draw our obstinate majority into the views
of honesty, and the United States."
ARRIVALS. MEIV-YORK.
Wednesday. Sloop Jamaica, 33 days.
7hurjday. Ship Bell, Boyd, London, 49 davs.
Friday. Schooner Catharine, Aitken, Halifax, to davs.
Snow Maiia, Walkie, Lcndon, 50 days.LETTER.
fThe RIGHT GOVERNMENT of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
[Continued from our
IT*happens universally, whtn the people in a
body, or by a single representative afiembly, at
empt to exercise all the powers of government,
'hey always create three or four idols, who make
<* bargain with each other fir It, to do nothing
which lhall displease any one : Thele hold this
agreement, until one thinks himlelf able to dif
emban ass himfelf of the other two ; then they
quarrel, and the Itrongelt becomes single tyrant,
cut why is the name of Pompey omitted, who
was the third of this triumvirate? Because it
would have been too unpopular ; it would have
tooeafily confuted his argument, and have turn
ed against himfelf,to have said that this aflociation
was between Pompey, Cnefar, and Crafius, against
Cato, the senate, the constitution, and liberty,
which was thefaift. Can you find a people who
will never be divided in opinion ? who will be al
ways unanimous ! The people of Rome were di
• vided, as all other people ever have been and will
be, into a variety of parties and factions. Pom
pey, Crafius, and Caesar, at the head of differ
ent parties, were jealous of each other: Their
divisions ltrengthened the senate and its friends,
andfurnilheil meansand opportunities of defeating
many of their ambitious designs. Ca:far perceived
it, and paid his court both to Pompey and Crafius,
in order to hinder them from joining the senate
against him. He separately represented the ad
vantage which their enemies derived from their
mifunderHandings, and the ease with which, if
united, they might concert among themfelvesall
arfairs of the republic, gratify every friend, and
disappoint every enemy. ihe other example, of
Augustus, Lepidus,and .Antony, is equally unfor
tunate : Both are demonstrations that the people
did think of usurping others rights, and that tliey
did not mind any way to preserve their own.—
The Senate was now annihilated, many of them
murdered : Augustus, Lepidus, and Antony, were
popular demagogues,who agreed together to fleece
the flock between them,until the molt cunning of
the three destroyed the other two, fleeced the
ftieep alone, and transmitted the Ihears to a line
of tyrants. How can this writer fay then, that,
" while the government remained untouched in
" the people's hands, every particular man lived
" fafe ?" The ilirec't contrary is true. Every
man lived fafe, only while the Senate remained as
a check and balance to the people ; the moment
that contfoul was destroyed, no man was fafe.
While the government remained untouched in the
various orders, the Consuls, Senate, and people,
mutually balancing each other, it might be said,
with some truth, that no man coidd be undone,
unless a true and fatisfadtory reason was rendered
to the world for his deftruiftion ; but as soon as the
Senate was deftrcyed, and the government came
untouched into the people's hands, no man lived
fafe but the Triumvirs and their tools ; any man
might be, and multitudes of the belt men were,
■undone, without rendering any reason to the
world for their deftruiftion, but the will, the fear,
or the revenge of some tyrant. Thele popular
leaders, in our author's own langitage, " laved
" and destroyed, deprefled and advanced, whom
" they plealed, with a wet finger."
• The second argument to prove that the people,
in their fuccefiive single allcmblies, are the J)elt
keepers of their own liberties, is, " because it is
" ever the people's care to fee that authority be
" so constituted, that it fliall be rather a burthen
" than profit to those that undertake it; and be
" qualified with such slender advantages of profit
" or pleasure, that men fliall reap little by the
« enjoyment. The happy confcquence whereof
" is this, that none but honest, generous, and
" public spirits, will then defile to be in autho
" rity, and that only for the common good.
" Hence it was, that in the infancy of the Roman
" liberty there was no canvafling for voices; but
" single and plain-hearted men were called, in
" treated, and in a manner forced with impor
" tunity to the helm of government, in regard of
" that great trouble and pains that followed the
" employment. Thus Cincinnatus was fetched
" out of the field from his plough, and placed,
" much against his will, in the fublimc dignity of
"Dictator: So the noble Camillus, and Fabius,
" and Curius, were, with much ado, drawn from
" the recreation of gardening to the trouble of
" governirg; and the consul year being over,
" they returned with much gladness again to
" their private employment."
The firft question which would arise in the inind
of an intelligent and attentive reader would be,
whether this were bin lefque, and a epublic traves
ty ? But as the principle of this second reason is
very pleasing to a large body of narrow fpii its in
every fociciy, and as it ljasbeen a lopted by some
refpciTtable au;lioriries,without lii£icientconfiie; -
ation, it may be proper to £jjve it a lerious inves
tigation*
Tiie people have, in some countries and seasons,
made their fc;*iecs irk.fir.nc ; and i: i-
willi some ro make authority a burthen, But
what has been the confequencc to the people I
Their service has been delerted, and they have
been betrayed. Those very persons >vho have
flattered the meanness of the stingy, by offering
to fervethem gratis, ana bypurchaling their fuf
frages, have carried the liberties and properties
of their conftirueiits to market, and fold them for
very handsome private profit to the monarchical
and ariftocratical portions offociety : And so long
as the rule of making their lervice a burthen is
pei filled in, so long will the people be served
with the fame kind of address and fidelity, by
hypocritical pretences to disinterested benevo
lence and patriotifin, until their confidence is
gained, their affections secured, and their entliu
iiafm excited, and by knavish bargains and sales
of their cause and intercft afterwards. But al
though there is always among the people a party
who are jultly chargeable with meanness and ava
rice, envy and ingratitude, and this party has
sometimes been a majority, who have literally
made tlie?r service burthemfome, yet this is noi
the general character of the people; a more
universal fault is, too much affection, Confidence,
and gratitude, not to fucli as really serve them,
whether with or against their inclinations, but to
those who flatter their inclinations, and gain theit
hearts. Honest and generous spirits will disdain
to deceive the people; and if the public service
is wilfully rendered burthenfome, they will really
be averse to be in it : but hypocrites enough will
be found, who will pretend to be also loath tc
serve, and feign a reluctant consent for the public
good, while they mean to plunder in every way
they can conceal. There are conjunctures whenji
is the duty of a good citizen to hazard and facrifice
all for his country : but, in ordinary times, it is
equally the duty and interest of the community
not to fufferit. Every wife and free people, like
the Romans, will eflablifh the maxim, to fuffer nc
generous action for the public to go unrewarded,
Can our author be supposed to be lincere, in re
coinmendingit as a principle of policy to any na>
tion to render her service in the army, navy, 01
in council, a burthen, an unpleasant employ
ment to all her citizens I Would he depend upor
finding human spirits enough to fill public offices
who would be fufficiently elevated in patriotifrc
and general benevolence to facrifice their ease
health, time, parents, wives, children, and every
comfort, convenience, and elegance of life, for
the public good Is there any religion or mora
lity that requires this? Which permits the many
to live in affluence and ease, while it obliges i
few to live in misery for their fakes ? The peo
ple are fond of calling public men their ser
vants, and some are not able to conceive them tc
be servants, without making them Have*, and
treating them as planters treat their negroes :—
But, good makers, have a care how you use your
power; you may be tyrants as well as public
officers. It seems, according to our author him
(elf, that honefly and generosity of spirit, and the
pallion for the public good, were not motives
ftronw enough to induce his heroes to defireto be
in public life ; they inuft be called, intreated, and
forced. By single and plain-hearted men, he
means the fame, no doubt, with those described
by the other exprelfions, honest, generous, and
public spirits. Cincinnatus, Camillus, Kabius, and
Cm ius, were men as simple and as generous as
any; and tliefe all, by his own account, had a
strong aversion to public service. Either
these great characters inuft be supposed to have
practii'ed the Ado Epifcopari, to have held up a
fictitious aversion for what they really desired, or
we must allow their reluctance to have been lin
cere. If counterfeit, these examples do not de
serve our imitation ; if sincere, they will never be
followed by men enough to carry 011 the bulineis
of the world. The glory of these Roman cha
racters cannot be obfeured, nor ought the admi
ration of their sublime virtues to be diminished ;
but fucli examples are as rare among ttatefinen,
as Homers andMiltons among poets. A free peo
ple of common sense will not cfepend upon finding
a fufficient number of such characters at any one
time, but less a succession of them for any lor <r
duration, for the support of their liberties. To
make a law, that armies should be led, Senates
counselled, negociations conducted, by none but
fucli characters, would be to decree that the busi
ness of the world should come to a full stand :
And it must have flood as still in those periods of
the Roman liiftory as at this hour ; for such cha
racters were nearly as scarce then as they are now.
The parallels of Lyfander, Pericles, Themiftocles,
and Ccefar, are much easier to find in history,
than those of Camillus, Eabius, and Curius. If
the latter were with much difficulty drawn from
their gardens to government, and returned with
pleasure at iliq end of the conlular year to their
rural amusements; the former are as ardent to
continue in the public service, and if the public
will not legally reward them, they plunder the
public to reward themselves. The father of
1 hemiftocles had more aversion to public life
than Cincinnatus; and, to moderate the propen
lity of his foil, wljo ardently aspired to the highest
offices of the llatc, pointed to the old galliesVol
ling in the docks—" There," fays he, " fee the
' old ftutefmen, worn ent hi the fervke of their
" counwy, thus always neglected whm no loiter
"of ufc !" Yet the ion's ardour not abated
though he was not one of those honest spirits that
aimed only at the public good. Pericles too
though his fortune was small, and the honest
emoluments of his office very moderate, disco
vered no such averlion to the service; on the
contrary, he entered into an emulation in pro
digality with Ciinon, who wus rich, in orde;
equally to dazzle the eyes of the multitude. To
make himfelf the foul of the republic, and wai
ter of the aifec r tions of the populace, to enable
them to attend the public allemblVi and then.,
trical representations for his purposes, he laviflj.
Ed his donations : Yet he was so far from beino
honclt and generous, and aiming solely at the
public good, that he availed himfelf of the riches
of the Hate to supply his extravagance ot ex
pence, and made it an invariable maxim to fa
crifice every thing to his own ambition. When
the public finances were exhaulted, to avoid ac
counting for the public money, he involved his
country in a war with Sparta.
(To be continued.)
Boston, May 20,1789. Agreeably to an order
of the Hon. Secreiary at War, Mr. Joseph Callen
der has just finifhed the Inscription ordered by
Congress to be engraved on the TWO CANNON,
which constituted one moiety of the American Ar
tillery, at the commencement of the late war.
The inscription is finely executed in relievo—as
follows.
The HANCOCK, one—The ADAMS, the other.
Sacred to Liberty.
This one of Four Cannon,
Which coniUtuted the whole train
of Field Artillery
poflefled by the Britijk Colonies of
North ■ America,
at the commencement of the
War,
on the 19th of April, M,DCC,LXXV.
This CANNON
and its fellow,
belonging to a number of citizens of Boston,
were used in many engagements
dui ing the war.
The other two, the property of the
Government of Maflachufetts,
were taken by the enemy.
By order of the United States,
In Congress allembled.
May 19, 1 788.
NATIONAL MONITOR No. VI.
" Government is so far the rcfult of a free choice, as the people
are led to its adoption from sentiment."
IT is a trite, though true obfertation, that 4t good education isthc
M foundation oi all human nappmefs;" Tt,sis so umverfiHy a»-
knowledged in private lje % that the condud of trie enlightened part of
waukwd may be considered as a comment upon the convtciion of its im
portance ; —hence the common observation, that g,;od education is the
beflfortune—hence the extreme fohcitude of parents to Jham ever)
verve, that they may extend the plan oj their children's improvements in
Jcience— that they may enjoy advantages which their fres feel the want
of—hence aJfo the rapid progress that has been made in improving upen
ancient modes of infimtliofr —opening neiv avenue* to knowledge, cud
expanding our views in those walks that had been familiar to us. It
appears Jrom these specimens, that under the auspices oj peace,
Mid good there is every reason to that the great im
portance of education will continually appreciate in the minds of our c;ti*
zens aiidthat in this refped, 44 the w llftemcfs will ere long be made
4to bloflom like the rose Already do we behold Sclcncccourtwg
the funs ef America to the retirements of rural life; Seminaries oj Learn
ing arjing in those retreats, late the haunts of savage men, uld and
untutored as their fellow-tenants of the woods.
Ihis deeply impressed fen fe of tUe importance of education, may, ar.i
doultlefs will, operate mofi powerfully and effeliually, in producing the
necejjary provifonfor common education—as it will come in to aid those
necejjary arrangements, which mufl be made by the fathers, the vuxgf
trates, the ruling powers of villages, towns, and cities, to effect this im
portant objefl.
But this it cannot be supposed, will extend its benign in
fluence so far, as tofupertede the necefhty of Congreflional interference
in a fubjett of so great magnitude, as NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
for a NATIONAL EDUCATION.
This is doubtless a desideratum, that the wife and philanthropic part
of mankind will exult to fee realized—public JcmiMaries, in which na
tional, governmental, and patriotic inflruflion /hall form, the great
outlines of thefflem.
Irom Juch a centre, those rays of knowledge, may diverge in every
pifftble direttion, which will be produHive of the mojl salutary confe
quentes\ for it requires nutuing kiore than a feeling sense of the impor
°f and civil government, founded on a competent un-
Jerfl, ah ding of tKeir principles and iutrinfic excellencies, to engage the
a ffc£tions of the human mind in their fupport\ but the foundation of
m uunerfal attochjzeut to right principles, whether of a public or a
private nature, mufl be lard in youth. C.
Till PRESIDENT'S HOUSEHOLD.
W HEREAS, all Servants and others, employed to procure
prov.Aons, orfupplies, for the Household, of The Pkfsident
o( the Un i tic States, will be furniihed with monies for thole
puipofes. Notice is thorofore given, That no accounts, for the
payment of which the Public might be coniidered as
are to be opei.ed with any of their.
Samuel Frauncss, Steward of the Houfshpld.
Mat 4th, 1789.
BSUBSCRIPTIONS for the 14 COURIER DE BOSTON a
new weekly paper, publijked at Boflon in the trench Language, are re
ceived at A O, 9, Maiden Lane. [The utility-os a paper m this aliTiolt
univei lul language need not be hinted to those, who with to ac-i
quire the French tongue, j *
„S^Srfi'"J itts f rom "« ginning, oj the GAZETTE Of THE
, ' mjy any tlmc be oitjined by those who chuft tc
futjcrioejor that publication, atthe Editor's Office, St. 9, Maidm-Unr
Publi/hed by JOHN t'ENNO, No. 9, Maiden-
I an f, ne»i the Oswego-Ma rksi , KfiW-Yosn.