No.'XII.
TH E TABLE T. No. XII.
r n,k,n once a man is inured to the service of
"Mm 'be will erpe/l to be paid as we// for att.ug
fir, (JJ for "(iing thi diftaUs °f hl C 0"-
t'Tmay seem paradoxical to reproach a man for
I « contentious spirit, while it is acknowledged,
,w focietv cannot be held together, without the
Sos tattion. I will make two remarks, as a <o
tionof this difficulty.—One is, that the chain
„f providential events is so connected, that op
oofite evils mitigate or deflroy the tendency oi
Lh other; while many persons who take :m
agency in them, maybe actuated bj the molt
nialitrnanr motives. The other is, that though
a certain portion of party spirit is eflential yet
it fcotdd b'«? fubjedl to foine bounds and reftne
t;ons • and as there is more probability that it
will be carried to excess, than that it will be an
nihilated, our blaming it as a vtce, or delcribing
it as an inconvenience, may be a circumstance
that will restrain some of its excelles.
In the natural world, we often denominate
phenomina as evil, because their immediate and
visible effects are fo.—lf we could view the whole
scene, those parts that are represented as dark
and horrid, would be found to contribute to the
perfection of the whole. Tempests, tornadoes
and earthquakes, are usually ranked among the
most formidable natural evils. Suchjarrs and
concussions of the elements, however, are cal
culated to redtify disorders, which, by being let
alone, would become more pernicious than their
counteracting causes. Those who are within the
verge of the disaster fuffer an evil, which it was
requisite ftiould take place, to render the gene
ral blessing more complete.
It is my intention to present to the view of my
voung friend a character, which may serve a* A
specimen of one, on whom faction has wrought
its full effedts.—This will be more likely to make
strong impressions, and to put him on his g:ird
agalnft undue exercises of party spirit, than
merely to lay the f'ubjeft before hiin, in remarks
that are general and unapplied. There is a dif
ficulty in accoinplifhing this talk, resulting from
the want of a complete original, by which a
portrait can be formed To remedy this defect,
I have had pa $ve to several of the most dit
tinguilhed parry wranglers, that had fallen with
in my knowledge. By seleCting different quali
fications from different persons, and combining
them into an aggregate, it delineates an image,
not materially incomplete. No individual has
furnifhed a fufiicient lhare in the features of this
character, to claim the right of naming it. Such
a colledtion of qualities, however, fhouid be per
fonified, and for want of a b;tter name, may be
called Hactotius.
It can be of no importance to tell from what
parents he descended. His parentage and educa
tion were such as entitled hiin to the notice and
esteem of his acquaintance. As his natural abi
lities rather exceeded mediocrity, and as his ac
quirements were handfonie, his friends hoped
that he would have been distinguished in alinoft
anyftation of life. He had no vices, but what
proceeded from a warmth and vivacity of spirit,
and which did not indicate a bad heart. There
was reason to believe that age and experience
would correct the few irregularities he had dil
covered. *
Factotius entered into public life with a re
putation sb fair and unblemilhed, that to fay he
wore the image of his Maker, would not impi-
Mifly derogate from the divine attributes. His
degeneracy was solely occasioned by the acciden
tal circumstance of his falling into bad hands.
As he had taken a residence in a different part of
the country from that in which he had been born
and educated, he malt of course form new con
nections. A inifiake in this refpedt laid the
foundation of his future faults and misfortunes.
He unintentionally connected hiinfelf with men,
were warmly engaged in partv animosities.
rrom a temper naturally unguarded and aspiring,
fie was inadvertently allured into a chace, the
courses of which, his fagaciry could neither fore
ee or elude. Though he had given the inoft
attenng iymptoms of a virtuous mind, yet his
principles had never been confirmed by experi
and habit. There : s a critical point of
'nnein the lite of a man, from which the cha
• acter takes its tone. Factotius was exactly
ln period. Had he at that instant formed
£°c • connections, he had never become a bad
""f 11 *1 13^ e ft' n y was unfortunate, and he made
3 atal pitch. In a very little time, he became a
•!| lr "!i 3,1 parnzan in all the difputcs of
", e ?•. i s incredible how lieedlefsly he
cord" '™t° t ' le depth of party rage and dif
or ' e uot proceed through the regular
From WEDNESDAY, May 20, to SATURDAY, May 23, 1789.
gradations from a good to a bad man: his change n
was almost instantaneous. His happiness at once ft
deserted him, and IBs ideas of right and wrong a:
suddenly diflipated.—This may happen, without f<
any original ill intention in those who fall a vie- w
tim to the fury of faction. h
Thrown into a situation, where he was often ai
called upon to oppose what is right and encou- vv
rage what is wrong, Factotius had some con- hi
flict of emotions between former principles, and p
new temptations.—He was however wretked with c
such an inceflant ardour of temper and tumult of t(
paflions, as to put calm reflexion out of his pow- ti
er, and soon became familiarized to the charac- f
ter he had aflinned. The love of. triumph, the h
hatred of opposition, and the enchanting hopes t
of being a diftinguilhed partizan, led him a ca- a
rcer that was no less tormenting to hinil'elf, thau !i
mifchiveous to society. ISO soon were all dif- v
tincftions of virtue and vice broken down and c
levelled, that his old friends and connections, ;i
who did not coincide with his new objeifts and I
party views, fuffered «very thing that could re- I
fult from violated confidence, or from a vindic- r
tive overbearing conduct. His enmities and at- 1
tachments were all converted to party purposes. f
Nor is this all—Factotius not only loft his t
redlitude, but his consistency : He became the f
most capricious, as well as the most abandoned ot 1
men.—ln some cases, he would applaud and imi- a
tate what in others he would avoid and condemn ; t
one while he would reprobate and persecute a v
character, whom afterwards he would take by '
the hand and patronize. Atftions in no material f
refpecft different from what he himfelf prafcfHfed, 1
he would ridicule and detest in his antagoniils. i
In short, there is no vice that can be lashed, and 1
no folly that can be laughed at, which he would t
not represent as praise-worthy and decent in )
those who adhered to his cause.—On the other <
hand, the most worthy actions of his opponents
were stigmatized with opprobious epithets.
But all human affairs have their limits—Fac
totius could not always run such a race. His
enormities were, from the nature of things, re
strained to certain bounds : There was no new
man for him to deceive, no new abl'urdiry for
him to commit.—His fall From the glare and po
pularity of gilded caprice and iniquity, into a
state of infamy and negledt, was so rapid and
unprogreflive, as to form one of the moil extra
ordinary events of his life. He was instantly for
faken. His name, which for a while was only
mentioned with scorn and detestation, was in a
few years so generally forgot, as never to be in
troduced but as a comparison for something ex
tremely odious and deftruiflive. So strong a con
trail between his present and former fortune seems
to have fafisfied all feelings of revenge in his ene
mies. The natural di&ates of humanity strove
to silence further reproaches, and to allow his
name the privilege of oblivion. ,
Such a character, and such a situation, a wife
man will avoid for his own fake ; and a. good man,
for the fake of other people.
EXTRACT FROM " AMERICAN ESSAYS."
STORY o/HONESTUS and CONSTANTIA.
HONESTUS and CONSTANTIA were a
happy pair, a virtuous sympathy allied their
hearts; the facredunion was cemented, by con
stant, kind, reciprocal attentions : Conftantia
• \yas fair and beautiful, as she was good : Her ex -
; ter null charms captivated the rich Corrumpus.—
- Honeftus had embarked in an undertaking that
* required a loan—Corrumpus instantly stepped
forth, and in the pressing moment, offered him
. his purse—the artless Honeftus gratefully accept -
f ed, and most cordially embraced the insidious
i friend :—But here the traitor milled his aim.
Conftantia's virtues bore the stamp of Heaven,
l' and kept pollution at an awful diftance.—Rag
in~ alternately with difappoininent and desire,
, atTength Corrumpus sullenly withdrew ; butftill
;! resolved if potfible, to gratify his mean revenge,
and hellish lull.—The commercial enterprises of
e Honeftus,' terminated unfortunately—Corrum
- pus saw and seized the flattering occasion, to
1: screen his name, and hide the blackness of his
s hellish purpose :He artfully transferred the debt
due from Honeftus, to his petifogging and pan
s der, one of that execrable tribe of canabals in
i London, who live on human prey : This faithful,
v callous tormentor, stripped the poor Honeftus
d bqre ; consigned him to that vile terreftial hell
d a <:aol, there left him naked on a bed of thorns,
e —Who can unfold thy complicated woes, ye
a <r\<: om v tenants of that dark abode ! Who can grasp
>f the wide'fpread miseries ifl'uing from that cruel
e fource—Conftantia, large was thy portion of the
("- bitter cup. In a dark corner of a naked hovel,
ir exnofed to all the rigors of inclemeut winter.
now behold, die lute liappy wife of the once as- .
fluent Honeftus ! Poor, cold, comf. jrtlefs, lick,
and forfuken ! horror and fpeeclilefs agony de
formed that fair face, where all the graces once
where wont to finile ! Two infant daughters hang
ing on herknees, with piercing cries for bread,
and their lolt father, probing inceilantly her
wounded foul; close by her lide in dumb diftrefe,
herhoary fire,fat looking resignation.—ln this de
plorable, defencelefs Hate—the Villain's pre
cious hour!—thefalfeCorruinpus enters, affevfts
to curse the unfeeling monster, who could dis
turb the fair Conftantia's peace ; and with mock
sympathy pretends that he was jult informed of
her distress, and had hastened with all the impa
tient ardor of a friend to offer her piotetfiion
and relief: Still ihe fat dumb, motionless, tranf
fixed ! her eager eyes intent upon her children ;
with well diflembled grief, he next communi
cates the cruel fate of his dear friend Honeftus ;
and said he intended to go immediately to him :
Here Conftantia looked up—and to offer him his
fervice.s—a gleam of hope appeared once more to
rouse her torpid foul, and with a feeble ray re
lumed her eye—a faint fuffufion of an lie&ic hue
slushed on her lifelefs cheek—Sliefeemedto wilh
to finile : Rank with detire, the gloating lecher
saw returning life, and eagerly approached to
seize her hand ; by chaste antipathy, she took the
alarm ; flirunk from the hateful and forbidden
touch, and shook with horror; then ftafed at Hea
ven, and menaced fierce : Her children
screeched in wild affright, not knowing what they
feared, and trembling clung for fafety to their
helpless mother.--The pious father felt the unfeel
ing wound, but now his palsied arms liungnerve
leis, a cumberous useless load; he could no more
than weep,and look again to Heaven.—Struck,but
not foftened at the melting scene', with consci
ous guilt, the sneaking friend retired.
After a long and awful pause, returning reason
seemed again to dawn—the storm that rudely
snook Conftantia's gentle frame, gradually lub
fided intoapenlive, calm, and fettled melancholy;
when with the fofteft voice of melting grief, ihe
thus articulated ; still persecuted by that cruel
spoiler!! thought I had nothing left! Yes,ftill Virtue
thou art mine ! for thee am 1 once more pursu
ed ! if stripped of tliee, Ifliouldbe poor indeed*
Lovely Virtue! with thee, and with my dear Ho
neftus, how happy fliould I ueein the humfcleft
lot! thus blest, rich in content, I yet could tread
some humble vale in sweet security, and bless
all bounteous Heaven, unenvying andunenvied ;
but doomed to live bereft of either ; how bitter
even is my scanty bread ! The keen reflection
ltung her to her foul, andchoaked her utterance.
In a few days, death mercifully closed this
dreadful scene, ami happily released the poor
Conftantia : This stroke i f mercy, so far relieved
the injured, wounded, and world sick Honef
tus, that he was soon removed from his prison
to a mad-house, where in sweet oblivion on
his bed of straw, he dreams himself a King.
Revenge fould ask no more—There yet remain
ed, to satiate luft,with an inceftuons feaft ; —mark
how the monster deliberately prepares the hellilh
banquet!
Corrumpus took the friendlefs orphans, and with
t a more than parent's fondnefs cherished them ;
till with the unripe fruit, his rank, salacious, ap
petite was gorged ; then with a cloyed indifference,
l cold!y cast them to the common herd ; and e'er
they reached their teens, they joined the iftale,
forlorn patrolers of the Strand, who in nodturnal
l orgies seek relief, and know no other joys.
I Such was the fate, of a worthy, virtuous family,
, all for no crime, who had they not been Britons,
. might probably have lived, to have been an orira
s ment to their species, and an honor to their
country.
Blush Britons ! blush ! and boast no more, of
SUBJECTS SACRED RIGHTS
t O ! 'twas an impious theft, to rob decrepit age
1 of it's sole prop !to snatch with sacrilegious hand,
the only cordial that remained to qualify the
f bitter dregs of life ! —To strip the virtuous, fond,
. and faithful wife, of liufband, hope, protection,
0 and support !—lt was A DAMNING DEED, to
s pluck the harmless infants from the brooding
lt wings of their fond, loitering parents ;to blot
_ fair, white-robed innocence, their only boon,
„ with foul, indelible pollution ; then rlirow the
1 violated in the street, there to wander,
1S houlelefs, helpless, hopeless, hungry, diseased,
U abandoned, naked, loft !
S. ■■- ■ " Quis talia fando
" Temperet a lachrymis I**
!p This eclipses all the glory, and annihilates the
el most eflential benefits of the British Constitution,
ie by thus involving misfortunes with crimes, and
1, giving the wealthy villain absolute power over
r, the nrffortunate, and authorizing him, unuer the
PRICE SIX PEN'CC.ianction of law, to gratify every criminal, and
hacetul paflion : It degrades civilization beneath
the nfoft barbarous Hordes.
Roule, and redress your brethren's wrongs, ye
abject, base, degenerate Britons.
1 lie gi.oll s of murdered tlioufands, conjure you,
to break thole hell-forged prison barrs, that (hut
out Iron the innocent, lweet hope, and mercy ; —
tin/ock the infernal doves that impioujly divide whoTti
God tilth joined and hear, O'hear/the Children's
cries !—Come forth, ye injured, pallid lhades of
men ! ye, who have lingered out an age of tor
ment ! lay bare your cruel wounds, and make
your country, and even Th urlow* blush ! your
tragic stories will unfold, that all the mileries
which Priloners fuffer, make but a slender poition
of the pungent woes that Prisons breed.
Ye iliinifters of Hell, who torture Innocence,
and sport with ruin ! Go liquidateyour black ac
counts with Heaven ! There fits ETERNAL JUS-
T ICE, the Balance in his Hand, weighing with
equal scales, DEBTOR AND CREDITOR, our
NAKED MO i J VES ! there, they Hand recorded
by unerring wisdom ! there, the OPPRESSOR
meets the AVENGING GOD ! there, MELTING
MERCY meets it's great REWARD ! and there,
the INJURED ever find REDRESS. E. C.
NOTE.
* The Lord Hi*h Chancellor of Great-Britain, who has i ni
formly opposed every motion tor the relief of diltreffed debtors.
SKETCH of PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
In the, HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED SI ATES.
Tuesday j Del/ate on the Proportion of arranging the
Executive Departments.
Tuesday, May 19, 1789.
Mr. Boudinot, who the business as
mentioned' in our last, made many observations
upon the important fubjetft of finance ; and
adverting to the present state of the funds,
Ihewed the neceflity of appointing an officer, or
Secretary for that department : After the com
mittee had proceeded so far as to adopt the idea
of three departments, agreeably to the resolution
introduced by ,Mr. Madison, the last clause in
the preamble of which, fubjei r ted the head of
each department to removal at the pleasure of
ihe President, this occasioned a debate. It
was urged in objection to the clause, that it was
unconstitutional, for it fubjetfted an officer to lose
his appointment without forfeiting it, or having
any reason alhgned : That giving the power to
The President without controul, rendered
nugatory the article providingfor impeachments :
7 hat it would delegate a dangerous authority to
the fupremc magistrate, and make himabfolute :
Thatit ought to be the fame power that displaces
from, which appoints to, an office : That 110
such power was fpecified in the constitution, on
the contrary the powers of The President be
ing therein defined, without designating that pro
posed, ir was presumed, that this power could
be lodged with fafety only in those hands where
the constitution had placed it, viz. The Presi
dent by and with the advice of the Senate : It
was called a monarchical system, and would
enable The President to effect arbitrarily, a
change of ministry. Many other observations
were made by several gentlemen who spake on
this fide of the question. In answer, it was said,
that the mode of impeachment for crimes, by
the Senate, had special reference to certain offi
cers of government, the Judges : That to sup
pose it extended to all, iridifcriminately, was ab
i'urdthis would oblige the Senate to be always
fitting"; this ob'edtion proved too much—as
even waiters and inferior officers could not be
removed on this principle : 1 he clause it was ur
ged, would create thatjuft responsibility in The
Presidnkt, and all under him, which never
conld be foujidin bodies of men : This respon
sibility \yould be mutual ; The President would
feel responsible for the fidelity of those appointed
by him, and they would feel responsible to him,
and to the public : This refjjonfibility was of the
utm oft importance—it was expe<fled by the people ;
and by concentering in one, this accountability for
the faithful discharge of the duties of the subor
dinate departments, of the executive, it was the
dicftate of reason and experience, that the per
son thus responsible should have the appointment
of the officers, on v.hose conduct the honor and
fafety of the government and the reputation of
The President were fufpendecl.
Wednesday, May 20.
Mr. Goodhue q;ave notice, that on Friday next
he should move for a committee of the whole
Houfeto determine the refpet'tive allowances for
their public services, to be made The President,
Vice President, Senators and Representatives of
the United States.
In committee of the whole, Mr. Trumbull in
the chair, on the fubje«ft of the three great de
partments.
The question on the second article of Mr. Ma
nso»j's resolution re/pectins a " Secretary of
the United St::: es for treasury d -'partinent" occa-
fioned an interesting debate : In opposition to the
idea of giving an individual the abfolutc direction
of the finances, it was observed, that the powers
and duties proposed to be annexed to this appoint
ment, vftre so nuinerous and complicated, that
there was not a mail to be found in the United
States competent to their discharge : That the
danger from corruption and undue influence was
greater from one man in I'o important an ollice,
than if the power was divided equally between a
number, who would be mutual checks to cacli
other ; that it would be unconflitutional,asit would
fupercedein a great yieafure the interference ol
the Senate, who were appointed a council to ad
vile The Prefidentin the execution of the govern
ment —for the creation of u financier, with all
the pomp and powers of office, would be the ella
blifiimentof what might be called a ministry;—
that experience had taught us, that the appoint
ment of such an officer would not meet the ideas ot
the people, and no such officer had been created
in the individual governments.
>hefe ohfervations were followed by amotion,
for an amendment, by striking out " Secretary
for the treasury department," and substituting
a clause, providing for the appointing aboard ol
commissioners.
On the other fide of the subject, it was laid,
that the superiority of an individual, poilefling
competent abilities to conduct this department,
over a number of commissioners was demonttrated,
by the experience of the public ; that there was
a radical deficiency in the very nature of boards
-and commifiioners produ&ive of perpetual ob
ftrucftions in their tranfacftions, deftrudtive of har
mony,and that decision and difpatch,which are the
foul of public business ; that this was confirmed
by a retrospect of the late Financier's energy and
spirit, contrasted with the operation of boards and
committees: Under the dirertion of that man,
public business had been conducted upon enlar
ged principles, and with a simplicity and promp
titude, that had saved our finances from destruc
tion, and given a new face to our afFairs : Immense
savings were made in every department, and or
der reflored where before confufion and distrac
tion prevailed : Under Commifiioners, the finan
ces had been in a state of darkness ; uncertainty
and indecision marked their tranfaiftions : \\ e
have realized perplexity and delays necefl'arily at
tendant on these inefficient fyftenis ; the idea of
responsibility is weakened by them, till it loses its
influence intirely. The question 011 the amend
ment was negatived by a large majority.
It was then moved, that a clause" should be
added, inflituting a board of treasury under the
fuperintendcnce of the financier.
This motion was put and loft.
The question, whether this officer should be
removable by The President, pafled in the affirm
ative.
The third article, providing for the eftablifh
mentof a Secretary of the United States for the
war department, removeable by The President
was alio voted in the affirmative.
Mr. Vining then proposed the addition of a
fourth department: The Secretary of the United
States for the domestic department : He enforced
the proposition by a number of observations, up
on the expediency,importance and absolute neccf
fity of such an cltabiifhment.
1 he creation of this department was objecfted
to for the present ; as the various objects which
it was designed to take up, might come with pro
priety within the departments already voted ; but
if another ihould be found neceflary, it could
be ePablilhed at any time.
The committee rose without coming to a vote
upon the proposition—when the House adjourned.
Thorsdat, May 21.
Ilefolved, that the House now resume the
consideration of the three great departments,
when it was moved, that the words " to aid The
President in the difcliarge of his important trust"
be struck out, which pafled in the affirmative ;
the word " Executive" waS then added aftet the
word subordinate.
Mr. Viking proposed, that thelloufe fliould
then resolve itfelf into a committee of the whole to
take into consideration the expediency of efta
blifliing a fourth department.
The riling of the House to form, into a commit
tee upon this proposition was opposed, and after
fomeconverfationMr. Vining consented to sus
pend his motion.
It was then moved, that a committee should
be appointed to bring in a bill, or bills, pursu
ant to the resolution for inflituting the three su
bordinate executive departments.— Voted in the
affirmative.
•Voted, that this committee consist of eleven
and the ballots being taken, the following gen
tlemen were elected, viz. Mr. ~Alr.
Madison, Mr. Fitzsimons, Mr. Burke' Mr.
G rry, Mr. Benson, Mr. Livermore, Mr!
Wadsworth,Mi\ Cadwallader, Mr. Vining
and Mr. Boudinot.
The committee of elections, to whom were re
ferred the several petitions from the citizens of
New-Jersey, refpcOiing the election in that State
for Reprelentatives in Congress, reported, that
a committee should be appointed, with authority
to hear evidence on the fuljcct of those petitions
that a day lhould be appointed on Wliith this con
mittee should lit for the above purpose ; and that
the Speaker should be rcquelted t:i tranimit"a
copy of this resolution to the Governor of N ew
Jerley, with a request that he would canfs the
lame to be publilhed in the l'everal newlnaiw,,
within that State. K 1
Ihe order of the day was then called for to
take up the memorial of David Ramsay, resett
ing the election of William Smith.
On which Mr. Vining moved to poll pone the
order of the day, and to go into committee for
the purpose of determining,whether a depart
hient for domeitic affairs Jhould be eltablii&ed.
The question on this motion being put was
loft.
The House then proceeded on the petition of
Dr. Ramsay, to examine the vouchers and evi
dence of the facts alledged by both parties, and
having yiade some progress in this examination
—Adjourned.
Friday, May 22.
The House this day resumed die confuleration
of the report of the committee 011 Dr. Ramsay's
petition, respecting Mr. Smith's eleiftion.
Mr. Lawrance proposed, that the report
should be re-coinniitted, and the committee iu
ltructed to report a Hate of facts to the House,
that a more competent idea may be formed pre'
vious to a decision,
Mr. Li vermore objected to a re-commitment;
the fatfls being different, it was probable that
quite different fentiinents would be formed upon
them—He thought that it would be preferable to
have the whole state of the evidence laid before
the House, and considering theml'elves in their
proper character upon this occasion, that of
Judges, they might form an opinion upon the
amount of the various facts, in which diey
might be more uiianimous than upon the plan
proposed by the motion.
Mr. Boudinot was in favour of a re-commit
ment, as he conceived it of the greatelt impor
tance that full jultice lhould be done to the lub
ject, by a very full and complete investigation';
it might save future trouble; it would be
blifhing an important precedent, in which the
greatelt precision should be attended to.
Mr. fhat che K--did not fee the propriety of
the motion—He observed, that to empower a
committee to form a state of facts, on which the
Houie was to found their judgment, would fce
iubftituting the Committee's opinion, upon a
very important fubjecft, instead of that of the
House : The House is the only proper tribunal
in the present cafe, and could not with propriety
trailfinit their powers to any other perlons. The
facts contained in the petition are full and clear ;
they speaK for theml'elves, and are not to be en
larged or curtailed. Can any new facts be ad
duced ? Can a committee investigate any which
the House cannot ? From the difficulty attending
the statement of tliefe facts, owing to the dif
ferent opinions of their importance ; and as the
committee might not bring forward tliofe that
some gentlemen might think the molt eliential,
he thought the motion would involve a very
tedious delay of the business.
Mr. Lawrance observed, that the House is
competent to an investigation of fa«ts, eitherin
itfelf, or by a committee—and so far from'alub
ltirution, or the divesting ourselves of a
power of judging freely, by the adoption of com
mittees, it is the invariable practice of the House
upon almost every occalion—it is done daily—
the question is, which is the belt mode of bring"
ing facts before us ? a committee has obviously
the advantage ; and when a calm and deliberate
investigation has taken place, the result is brought
before the for their determination, which
follows of course and with the greatest propriety.
Upon the plan which some men appear solicitous
to adopt, we shall not get through the bufinefsto
day but the House once in pofleifion of the facfts,
w ill be able to judge
Mr. Madison was opposed to a re-commitment,
as a dilatory meafure—wifnecl the committee had
1 eported a decision, for the consideration cfihe
Houie ; and proposed, that a motion which was
introduced yesterday, by the gentleman from
ork, (Mr. Benson) might now be brought
forward again, as the molt expeditious method of
lningirtg the subject to a cloie : This proposition
was, that the fe\eral fact;, should be read over one
by one, and a decision had upon each.
Mr. Page objected to a re-commitment —he
'opposed every member had made up a judgment
upon the papers which had been read, andthere
lore could fee no qje in adopting the motion.
«lr. Boudinot said, that he tliouglit it of
gieat consequence that the House should go into
aiuinute difcuflion of the subject, in order to haw?
a full entry made upon the journals —that
jultice could not be done without this investiga
tion this should be done either by the House
or a committee—he felt solicitous that Aich
a lecord might now be made of the present cafe,
as might apply iu all future ones; anyways finii
that as this was thefirlt instance of a difpu
tcd election, which had come before the Hovfs,id the fubjcA had been treated wish attention
an , j unn ony, he vvifhedfor the fatisfaCiion of e
a! rV gentleman who thought with him—that a
full and particular ftatemeut might be made of
i f 3 f ts adduced, as alio oftlir reasons on which
the judgment of the House shall be founded.
Mr Vining: I cannot conceive, Sir, what new
fads can be adduced, that should render a re
commitment neceflkry.—The House is already in
of tliofe, set forth in ilie petition, and
[ware conceded to on thepartof Mr. Smith;
from these fac r ts the only question before the
Houie in my opinion is this : Was Mr. Smith, a
citizen at the time of his election, ornoi'! As to
eftabliliiing a precedent, 1 do not think it will
be of any importance : Every election stands up
on lis own merits, and therefore the utility of
tillii.e Ae journals, with a long account of this
bufmefs is not obvious —A limple entry, that the
fact advanced by the petitioner is not supported;
and that Mr. Smith, was eligible to a feat in
ihis House is futKcient.—We are already in pos
session of a competent idea of every faCtthat can
be adduced, and all that remains to the House to
do, is to decide upon them.
Mr. Jackson observed, that although he had
a great regard for the Hon. member, whole elec
tion subjeCt of difcullion—he thought
that too much care and attention could not be
paid to the fubje(ft, and he hoped the House
would not be precipitate in its decision : Volumes
(hefaid) would not be too much, to do jultice to
a point of this importance.—On one lid 6, it is
true, there are the feelings of an individual to
be considered; and on the other, the interelt of
three millions of people. —He hoped the subject
■would be fully difcuiled. It materially affected
the circtimliances of the State, he had the honor
toreprefent; and much, very muchdepended up
on the decision of that House. He was in favour
of the recommitment.
Mr. Carroll, Mr. Thatcher, Mr. Livf.r
more and Mr. Gerry, foverally made fomc
fiiort remarks.
One gentleman having observed, that arecom
mkment, and a full and particular Itatement of
facts, might be productive of further communi
cations from Doctor Ramsay, Mr. Smith role
to enquire, whether DoCtor Ramsay was to be
sent to, to know if he had any reply to make ? if
that was the cafe, he lhould think proper to with
draw his docr.ments'—He then observed, that tlie
bufuiefs of the eligibility of h's election, had
been fully difcufled in Carolina, and the result
v/as, his being cholen by a 11 rge and respeCtable
majority—That Doctor Ramsay, although a re
fidentinthe fame place with liinifelf, had never
intimated a defignto controvert his election, nor
had he ever received the least intimation of it,
till Ids appearance on the floor of the House.
The vote being called for, for the recommit
ment, it palled in the negative by *a large majori
ty-
Mr. Smith then recited a number of fa&s,
relative so his eligibility, with observations—in
proof of these, he read various paflages from the
laws of the State of South-Carolina.—The fifft
fad mentioned was, that in less than one year
after his arrival in his native place, he was eleCt
ed a Member of the General Afl'embly, although
the law requires three years residency ; which
plainly proved that he was considered a,citizen,
though absent: That in nineteen months after,
he was eletfted a Privy Counsellor, though five
years relidence are requisite ; an additional evi
dence of his citizenlhip: That the acft palled in
1778, referred to by L)r. Ramsay, requiring an
oath within a period, which rendered it ijnpof
fible for him 10 take it, being then in Europe,
could not possibly have any reference to liim :
That r.one of his property had been confifcated
while he was abroad : That on the contrary, his
absence had been fandtioned by a law of the State,
allowing their young men to tarry in Europe for
a limited time, to complete their education :
That he had held property in Carolina during
the war which had paid raxes : That no alien
could hold an estate : That he had loaned money
to that State, to carry out lie war: That although
the law required naturalization previous to elec
tion to any office, yet he had been repeatedly
chosen without that previous requisite : That he
was admt-ted to the bar immediately on his arri
val, though four years probation were required.
He observed, that he could have produced many
evidences of his having always considered hiin
«t an American during his relidence in Europe,
•ad he expeCved an event of this nature : He
Jv ould just observe, that he tarried two months
ln "ance, during the war, and was introduced
an American to the Ambafladors, Mr. Frank
~in and Mr. Adams : That in 1 782 he embarked
£>» America, to snare the fate of his Country ;
tbeiM.g shipwrecked, he was necefiitr.ted to
- e r prolecuting the voyage till OClober, 1 783.
*aI °ther particulars were added.
terthis, a variety of motions was introduced,
n many ingenious observations were made by
ieftf " : s n,be \ s > l ,avt icularly some on the fub
-n I°. &c. which we have not time
c if c .—At about half aft*er three o'clock, the
o\ tngvote was determined by yeas and nays,
yiz. Ihat from the jnoft mature conflderation and
investigation of fat'ts, it appears to this House,
that William Smith, member from Sourh-Ca
rolina, had been seven years an inhabitant of the
United Stares, previous to his election.
This pafled in the affirmative.—36 yeas, one
nay.
Adjourned till Monday, 11 o'clock.
The REAL STRENGTH of a NATION.
An O D E.
t: WHAT conftitutcs a State ?
Not high ra.'s'd battlement, or lulour'd mound,
Thick wall or moated gate : *
Not eiiies proud, with fpircs and turrets crown'd :
Not bays, and broad-?rm'd ports,
Where, laughing at th storm, rich navies ride :
Not liarr'd and ipangled courts,
Wherelow-bro.v d baftnefs wafts perfume to pride;
No : —MEN-—high minded MEN,
With pow'i s as far above dull beasts endu'd,
J» forcft, brake, or den,
As bealls excel rold rocks and brambles rude ;
Men, who their DUTIES know,
But knowtheir RIGHTS, and knowing, DARE MAINTAIN;
Prevent the long-aim'd blow,
And nu(h the Tyrant, while they rend the chain.
Thcfc cor.ftitute a State ;
And Sovereign Law, THATS STATE'S COLLECTED WILL,
O'er thrones and King's elate,
Sits emprefJ, crowning good, reprefling ill.
Smit by her sacred frown,
Fell DESPOTISM refign'd hii iron rod ;
And Britain's once-bright crown
Hides his faint rays, and trembles at her nod.
Such is COLUMBIA'S land,
Fairer than e'en Britannia's boaited shore!
He re fßE(.DOMtakes her ftNid,
And bids Americans be slaves no more !
Since all must life relign,
Those sweet rewards, which decorate the brave,
'Tis folly to decline,
And steal inglorious to the silent grave.
NEW-YORK, MAY 23, 1789.
Yesterday the fl.rft A£t pasTed by the Congress of the United
States, prefcnbiir* the form of the oath to be taken by all per
sons holding offices under the Government of the United States,
and ot the individual States, and the manner of admin/itenng
th fame, was prclented to The President, for his signature,
by a committee of both Houses.
YciK rday his Excellency Doq Diego de Gardoqui, he Mini
ftcr ot Spain, gave an elegant entertainment to the Diplomatic
Corps,and olhc lCl.aiafters ot di{lin£tion,at his Hotel in Broad W. y,
Same day arrived in town from Virginia, the Hon.' William
Gkayson, Senator of the United Staus.
Fxtrafl of a htt:r from Dr. Price, dated Hackney,
March 5, 1 70 y.
" A discovery feenis to have been made here,
since Mr. Pi tt came into adininiftration, that the
Lnitfd States are of no use to us.—What a pity
it is this discovery was not made before the com
mencement of the late war, and the shocking
waste of blood and treasure it occasioned ? We
have lately been in a state of great confufion
here, in consequence of the King's insanity ; it
is given out that he is now well, and that he will
reailume the government in a few days ; but
should his recovery be a partial recovery, or
should he relapse, of which there is great dan
ger, party disputes will run higher than ever
among us, and our government may become a
scene of tumult and diflracftion : At the fame
time, the connections into which We have lately
entered with Pruflia, Hefle, and the Stadtholder,
render it alinoft impoflible for us to avoid being
involved in another war, should not peace take
place on the continent next summer; and it is
indeed tome wonderful, that any persons among
us can lock to another continental war so soon
after the lafl, without terror—but amidst this
darkness, I trust in that Providence which orders
every thing for the bell, and often makes cala
mities the 1110 ft dreadful, the causes of the great
ell good.—This observation has been remarkably
verified by the consequences of the American
war. It was this war that gave rife to that spirit
of Liberty, which is now working through
Europe, and that will probably gain For France
a free constitution : And it was this war that has
gained for your country that Independence which
I hope will terminate in a Form of Government
that will be an example to the world. Mr.
Adams has with great ability contributed to this,
by proving, with abundant evidence, the neces
sity of a ieparation of the judicial, executive,
and legislative power—and of a dillribution of
of the legislative power in particular, between
three Independent States—l think it scarcely pos
sible to read his observations on this subjeCt, in
ahfwer to Nedhain and other writers, without
conviction." •
Last Thursday evening was held in the Aflembly
Room, the half yearly exhibitions in elocution by
the young gentlemen in Mr. Campbell's grammar
school, in presence of a crouded and very respec
table aflembly of ladies and gentlemen ; when
those young candidates for fame, delivered many
valuable pieces in prose and verse ; a few of
which were in Latin, and rendered into that lan
guage from the Englifli by the speakers them
selves.
With much applause and fatisfaction the com
pany beheld the very great progress which the
pupils in general have made in the art of delivery ;
while fuvidry of diem have attained to such profici
ency in it as is truly amazing.
; EPITOME OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
By the Sh:p Wilson, Capt. M'Evers,frj)m Liverpool.
| Sweden, Feb. 20.] Another revolution Las been
effected in this Kingdom by its Sovereign : This
was done by seizing the principal Nobility, and
confining them in the Castle of Frederici.Voff ;
The Kingdom by this manoeuvre is deprived of
one of its principal blanches.
[Denmark, Feb. 24.] Great preparations are mak
ing for war—and the campaign will open early.
Seven or eight ships of the line will be ready to
fail as soon as the rivers are clear of ice : Minis
try have feat orders to raise 4000 sailors in NOl -
way.
J he citizens ofGeneva have restored their an
cient Conititution, and have demanded of France,
ardinia, and the Canton of Berne, the Guarantee
of the Republic.
The triple alliance between Holland, Great -
Britain and Pruflia, is in great foi wardnefs.—
Fhe King of Great-Britain's recovery will be ce
lebrated with great joy at the Orange Palace.
At Constantinople there lias been a great infur
reetion, which lasted three days, occasioned by
the ill success of their arms.
[London.J The Imperial Joseph is again
mounted on his military hobby horse. Bri
grades, troops, cannon and warlike stores, are
at present marching and countermarching in
every quarter of Germany. He declares that
he will on no account whatever renew the truces
with the Turks, and is now seriously determined
that no treaty whatever fliall stop his progress
till he arrives at Constantinople, which he is de
termined to level to the ground.
The question now depending between the
Court and the Parliament is not on the Regency ;
but is, Whether the Crown of Ireland be imperial
and independent, or united to and inseparable
from the Crown of England .'
The importation of Bread, Flour, Indian Corn,
Liz'e Stock, into Newfoundland, in Britilh bottoms,
and navigated according to law, is permitted for
seven months, from 30th June next—byf n Order
of the King and Council, dated March t6i
[Paris.] The population of this city and fubjirbs
for the year 1788, is as follows : 20,708 chriftcn
ings ; i9,9J9deaths; J37J"marriages ; 5822 foun
dlings.
[Bruxel/es.~\ The paragraph which aflerted that
the Brabaniers had submitted to the demands
made by the Emperor is falfe :On the contrary
they remain firm and inflexible in thpir resolu
tions not to comply, though from threats, he may
proceed to threats.
The flame of Liberty, which for ages has illu
minated the English Hemisphere, will ere long
burn as bright in this quarter.
The Nobility of France appear inclined to fruft
rate the beneficent views of the Monarch in the
States Convention.
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE.
[Philadelphia, May 20.] The season forfnmmer
goods being now at hand, it is hoped the friends
of American manufactures will not forget the ex
cellent brown and white thread and cotton hosiery
made here, known by the name of Gcrmantown
Stockings. They are cheaper, and much more last
ing than those of any nation in Europe.
The laudable example exhibited last year by
persons of all circumstances, and in all situations,
in wearing the twilled and plain Jeans and Fujlians
made at the Philadelphia Factory, we trust will be
renewed this season. These articles.may now be
constantly procured at the stores of Meflrs. Wood
& Tho'rnly, near the Fountain Inn, Chefnut-ftreet,
of Meflrs. Mendenhall & Cope, in Second street,
opposite Christ-Church, and at the factory in
Market street. Also cotton sheetings, fancy
stripes for waistcoats, coarse linens, &c.
[Hartford, May 18.] Last Thursday the General Election was
held in this city, when the votes of the Freemen being returned,
it appeared, That His Excellency Samu £l Ho nti ngton, Esq.
was appointed and the Hon. OL iv ci Wolcott, Ef<],
Lieutenant-Governor.
His Excellency John Collins iselefted Governor, and the Hon.
Daniel Owen, Esquire, Deputy Governor, of the State of Rhode-
T(1 -A.
£ R R A TU M .
In Mr. Jackson's observations in the Gazette of Saturday last, for
" Dry Tax," p/eaji to,read, Direct Tax.
ARRIVALS.
At the port of Neuo-Ybrk.
Wednejday. Schooner Donald, Lilley, Norfolk. 7 days.
Sloop Ranger, Aftins, Philadelphia. 8 days.
Sloop Hawk, Harvey, St. Croix. 2j days.
Sloop Industry, Dunn, Philadelphia. 5 days.
Sloop New-York Packet, Tinker, Newburn, N. C.
Thurjday. Brig Carolina, Mead, Wilmington, N. C. 8 days.
Brig Two Brothers, Rogers, Port au Priuce. 14 days.
Schooner King George, Benifon, St. Johns. 10 days.
Sloop Brlliant, Smith, Charleston. 7 days.
Sloop Polly and Debby. Dickinfon, Antigua. 21 days.
Sloop Endeavor, Allen, Aux Cays, and Virginia.
Slop Cato, Crocker, Liverpool. 56 days.
Sloop Providence, Lovett, Charleston. 8 days.
Sfoop Charles, White, Norfolk, Virginia. 4 days.
Friday. Schooner Nancy, Randsfoot, Virginia. 5 days.
Schooner Betsy, Strange, Virginia. 5 days.
Schooner Nancy, Gore, Virginia, 10 days.
Schooner Defiance, Gillon, Virginia. 5 days.
Sloop Bounty, Robinson, Virginia. 5 days.
Sloop Good Intent, Painter, Antigua. 17 days.
Sloop Delight, Cockran, Curracoa. 16 days.
Sloop Phoenix, Bartlctt, Wilmington. 8 days.
Sloop Philadelphia Packet, Bailey, Philadelphia.jdaysL E T T E 11.
The RIGHT GOVERNMENT of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
Dt a r Si R,
THE Engliih nation, for their improvements
in the theory of government, lias, at least, more
merit with the human race than any other among
the moderns. The late molt beautiful and liber
al (peculations of many writers, in various parts
of (Europe, are manifeilly derived from Eligliih
sources. Americans too ought for ever to ac
knowledge their obligations to English ws itei s,
or rather hive as good a right to indulge a pride
in the recollection of them as the inhabitants of
the three kingdoms. The original plantation of
our country tvas occasioned, her continual growth
has been promoted, and her present liberties have
been eltablifhed by these generous theories.—
There have been three periods in the liiftory of
England, in which the principles of government
have been anxiously studied, and very valuable
productions published, which at this day, if they
are not wholly forgotten in their native country,
are perhaps more frequently read abroad than at
home.— Jhe firft of these periods was that of the
Reformation, as early as thp writings of Ma
chiavcl himfelf, who is called the great restorer
of the true politics. ■ " The Sliorte Treatise of
" Politicke Power, and of the true Obedience
" which Subjetfts owe to Kyngs and otlie- civil
" Governors, with an Exhortation to all true
" natural Englifhemen, compyled by John Pon
" net, D. D." was printed in Ijj6, and contains
all th«e eflential piinci les of liberty, which were
afterwards dilated on by Sidney and Locke.
This writer is clearly for a mixed government,
in three equiponderant branches, as appears by
these words, p. 7. "In some countreyes tliey
" were content to be governed, and have the
" laws executed, by one king or judge ; in some
" places by many of the best forte ; 111 some places
" by people of the lowest forte; and in some
" places also by the king, nobilitie, andthe,peo
" pie altogether. And these diverse kyndesof
" states, or policies, had their diltin<fte names ;
" as where one ruled, a monarchic ; where many
" of the best, ariftocratie ; and where the mul
" titude, democratic ; and where all together,
" that is a king, the nobilitie, and commons, a
\ ( mixte state; and which men by long contijiu
" ancC have judged to be the best fort of all:
" for where that inixte state was exercised, there
" did the commonwealthe longest continue."—
The second period was the Interregnum, a:id in
deed the whole interval between 1640 and 1660.
In the course of those twenty years, not only
iPonnet and others were reprinted, but Harring
ton, Milton, the Vindicix contra Tyrannas, and
a multitude of others, came upon the stage.—
The third period was the Revolution in 16S8,
which produced Sidney, Locke, Hoadley, Tren
chard Gordon, Plato Redivivus, who is also clear
for three equipollent branches in the mixture,
and others without number. The discourses ol
Sidney were indeed written before, but the fame
causes produced his writings and the Revolution.
Americans should make collections of all these
speculations, to be preserved as the most pre
cious relics of antiquity, both for curiosity and use.
There is one indifpeniible rule to be oblervcd in
the perusal of all of them ; and that is, to con
sider the peiiod in which they were written, the
circumstances 'of the times, and the personal
character as well as the political situation of the
writer. Such a precaution as this deserves par
ticular attention in examining a work, printed
firft in the Mercurius Politicus, a periodical pa
per published in defence of the commonwealth,
and re printed in 1656, by Marchaniont Ned
ham, under the title of " The Excellency of a
" free State, or the right Constitution of a
" Commonwealth." The nation had not only a
numerous nobility and clergy at that time dis
gusted, and a valt body of the other gentlemen,
as well as of the common people, desirous of the
redowtion of the exileu royal family; but many
writers explicitly espoused the cause of simple
monarchy and absolute power: among whom
was Ilobbes, a man, however unhappy in his
temper, or detestable for his principles, equal
in genius and learning to any of his contempo
raries. Cthei s were employed in ridiculing the
doctrine, that laws, and not men, iliould govern.
It was contended, that to fay " that laws do or
" can govern, is to amuse ourselves with a form
" of speech, as when we fay time, or age, 01
" death, does such a thing. That the govern
" ment is not in the law, but in the person whose
" will gives a being to that law. That the per
" fed-ion of monarchy confilts in governing by a
"nobility, weighty enough to keep the people
" under, yet not tall enough, in any particulai
" person, to measure with the Prince, and by a
" moderate army, kept up under the notion of
" guards and garrisons, which may bs fufHcient
" to ftrangleail feditionsiu the cradlc ; by coun
" cils, not such as are co ordinate with the
" Prince, but purely of advice and difpatcli, with
" power only to persuade, not limit the prince's
" will In such a situation, writers on the
lide of liberty thought themfelvcs. obliged to
cor.hder what was then practicable, not stbfhact
edly what was the btiL: they felt the necessity of
leasing the monarchical and arilto.czatical orders
out of their fcliemes of government, because all
the friends of those orders were their tnemies',
and of addrelling themselves' wholly to the de
mon atical party, because they alone were their
friends; at lealt there appears no other hypo
thecs on which to account for the crude concep
tions of Milton and N eel ham. The latter, in his
preface, discovers his apprehensions and feelings
too clearly to be iniftaken, in these woids : " I
" believe none will be offended with this follow
" ing discourse, but those that are enemies to
" public welfare : let such be offended flill ; it
" is not for their fakes that I pnblifh this enfu
" inn treatise; but for your fakes that have been
" noble patriots, fellow foldici s and Jufferers for
" the liberties and si eedoms of your country."
As Mr. Tuj-got's idea of a commonwealth, in
which all authority is to be collected into one
centre, and that centre the nation, is supposed
to be precisely the projpifl of Marchamont Ned
ham, and probably derived from liis book, and
as " The Excellency of a free State" is a valu
able morsel of antiquity, well known in America,
where it has many paitifans, it may be worth
while to examiie it, especially as it contains
every semblance of argument which can po' bly
be u'-ged in favour of the system, as it is not on
ly the popular idea of a republic both in France
and England, but is generally intended by the
words republic, common-wealth and popular slate,
when used bv Etiglifh writers, even those of the
liioft sense, tafle, and learning.
(To be contiuued.)
* See the political pamphlets of that day, written on the fide of
monarchy.
NATIONAL MONITOR No. V7~
" Temporary expedients do but prolong the pub
lick distress."
THE imperfection of human nature is such, that
its inherent resources are inefficient to retrieve the
misfortunes of hfift :—The public dijtreffes brought
upon America by the late war, have been conpdered as
evils necessarily resulting from the derangement oj
our Governments, our habits and pnrfuits—and that
time and experience -will, in the natural course oj
events re ft ore us again to tranquility and happiness.—
It may be prejumed, that this sentiment has had too
much influence upon the public mind; for we have
been supinely waiting fir natural or forne other
caufs, extraneous from our own exertions, to do
that for us, which we Jhould have done for tur
felves.—The woes cf private life are obliterated by
the Lnient hand of 'Time ; but the evils of a Commu
nity, like a flood which deluges a country, tnuft have
the fpeetfy united exertions of a People, to form fame
medium by which tiey may be carried off.
Time, which affords a sovereign Cure for private
adds to the weight of public Calamities ; for while
the difsaji exijts, like a contagion, it spreads from
one part of the community to the other, with encreaf
ing and aggravated force, till it becomes fa un'tver
fal, and acquires such strength, that a new creation
is as practicable, as bringing back a debauched, licen
tious, unprincipled people to the paths of virtue, or
der and government.
It has often been observed, that the hand of Hea
ven was as confpicuotis, in difpoftng the People oj
America to adopt the New System of Government, as
it was in supporting and carrying us through the late
war.—This illumination of mind plainly indi ates,
that those principles which had beer, early imbibed by
our ancejiors—which had been transmitted from fire
to fun, and which led us to Empire and Independence,
though injured and weakened, had not entirely lofi
their force —they have broken out in a blaze of lujlre
highly honorary to our character, leading the States
in Union to adopt the only solid expedient commensu
rate to their exigencies, the New Conftitution —the
righteous administration of this free Government will
pruve a cathclicon for the dlfeafes of the nation. C.
ABORIGINES OTAMERTCA.
THE charatfle: iftical features of the Indians of
America, are, a very final! forehead covered with
• hair from the extremities to the middle of the
eyebrows. They have little black eyes, a thin
nose, small and bending towards the uppei lip.
The countenance broad ; the features coarse ; the
ears large and far from the face ; their hair very
black, lank and coarse. Their limbs small, but
well turned ; the body tali, strait, of a copper co
lor, and well proportioned ; strong and acftive,
but not fitted for much labor. Their faces smooth
and free from beard, owing to a custom among
t hem of pulling it out by the roots. Their coun
tenances, at firit view, appear mild and innocent,
but upon a critical infpetftion, they discover some
thing wild, diftruftful and sullen. They are
iferrous with tlieir bows and arrows ; fond of
adorning themselves with firings of beads and
: shells about their necks, and plates in their ears
i and nolfcs. In summer they go aluioft naked ;
j but in winter they cover themselves with the
;fkins of beasts taken in hunting, which is their
principal employment. They many times torture
their pril'oners in the most fhockitig and cruel
manner ; generally scalp them, and fometiines
'broil and eat them' Marfe's Geography.
MISCELLANEOUS.
EAST-INDIA INTELLIGENCE.
" New-York, MAY, 23, j-fc*
ThefliipChefapeake, from Bengal] John O'Donnel, Esq. owr,-
cr and commander, arrived in Amboy, has brought*a valuable car«o
fcftnfifting of almost every piodu£tion and manufatture of Aha
He has had a very quick paflage, being only tour months, includ
ing five or fix days ft ay at the islands of St. Helena and Afcctu;o>,
from Bengal. By Mr. O'Donnel's arrival, we are favored w><h
the following intelligence :
Th£ Chesapeake was the firft American vefTel allowed to hoiffc
tlie colors of the United States in the celebrated river Gangt> and
to trade there. When Lord Cornwallis the Govcrnoi-Gtrier.!
then at a great distance up the country, was applied to bv iateV
from Calcutta, to know in what manner the Americans were to
be received, hisanfwer was—On the fame footvng with the othtr
nations. This answer being probably conformable to his infrac
tions from Great-Britain, Qvincc the friendly disposition of that
nation in that quarter, for the American ships pay no more atar.y
of the English fettiements of Bengal, Madras and Bombay, which
Mr. O'Donnel visited, than other fore'gneis. It is to be noticed
#lfo, that the fuprcme council of Bengal, have taken off a huvy
duty, called governmental customs, which included cxpor.g
well as imports : This duty all other nations, except the Enoiift
were liable to. This on Madeira Wine was so high as 18 rupas
the calk—and one rupee, or 2[6. fterl. on ali Wines in bottles.
All forts of European Goods—Wines, Spirits, &c. were fellinr
at the different European fettiements in Inuia, considerably under
prime cost, in consequence of the markets being overflo&ed. The
best Madeira wine M ould not net twenty pounds fterl. the pipe.
Capt. Kerby, in the Betsey from Philadelphia, arrived fafe at
Bengal, but in a very leaky condition ; her e-.rgo of Wine, &c,
was unloading. The vessel was to be fold, and not to retur;..
Capt. Randall, in the Jay, was fafe arrived at Batavia, from
Madras. It was supposed flie would winter there, and procttd
early next season to China.
Capt. Metcalfe, in the brig Eleanor, belonging to New-Yo-k,
lying in the river Tigris, was boarded weuuderftand by a number
of Chinese banditti; but by the fpinted conduct of the crew, who
brought a gun, loaded with grape, to bear on them, they werere
pulfed with the loss of some 01 then gang. The Capt. was up at
Canton.
All was profound peace between the country and European
powers in India, when Mr. O'Donnel failed. TheJiitherto reiilefs
and ambitious Tippo, son of the famous Hyder,Ally, andtheKng
lifti, appear heartily sick of wa , and are now fully employed m
reftoringloft credit, and their almost ruined finances, by fvflems
of reform and economy. *
The French at Pondicherrv were preparing a strong armament
to accompany the dethroned Prince of Cochin China, who late
ly v.sited France, and to aflift him in the recovery of his legal and
hereditary kingdom.
We understand, it is very unfafe for American vefTels to goon
thecoaftof Malabar, for fear of the Mahrattas fleets, who with
out diftin&ion capture the ships of all nations with whom they
have no treaty.
ONE SPIRIT ANIMATES THE WHOLE.
A late Boston paper contains the following paragraph. The
conduct of the Prelident of the United States, lays a correfponri
ent, places in so interfiling a point of view his truly illuttnous
chara&er as must endear him more than ever to hi« grawfuland
admiring countrymen —his disinterested refufal of all pecuniary
emoluments—his mild, conciliating language—his ftrongjy
implied opinion in favour of such alterations as shall improve*
and not injure the con ft i tut ion—his truly republican address to
the Senate and House of Repreftntatives—all'prove hira, beyond
controversy, the lame amiable, honcft, and GREAT MAN, the
fame real and unaffected friend to the PEOPLE, he always his
oeen. In being elevated to the firft place in the Union, he d®cs
not forget that he is still a citizen : And the manly style, and tru
ly democratic simplicity with which his firft official communica
tion is introduced, make us think that we heard the great Fabiis
addrefling the people of Rome, after having saved his country.
" Phi ladelphi a, May, 15.
The Speech of The President, upon his acceffidn to the go
vernment of the United States, deserves to be engraved in letter*
of gold. Antiquity h-s handed down to us nothingequal to it
J.he combination of juit and fublune principles, which appeal iu
every part of it, difcoverstne Christian, the patriot, and the Legi*
llator, in the highest degrees. Let vice and infidelity now hide
their heads. They can never, hereafter, beconfidered as faftnon
ab'e paris of a political character in the United States. Our il
luftrious y President, has taught us, from his present elevated
station, that to reverence the DEITY, and topraitife the duties ol
Morality, are the highest policy, as well as wisdom of a nation.
To render the present arduous station of our Prelident tafy to
him, it is the duty of eveiy citizen, to promote peace and order m
our count] y. To be the enemy of the Federal Government notv,
is to be the enemy of the great and good General Washi ngto>.
Arrived at Baltimore, for the purpofe'of the print
ing of cotton and linen cloats ar*d hangings, Mcilrs Col ay,
Chard on and Okinaro. It is uncertain in what place th;i
gentlemen will fix thcmfelves, but, wherever it ihall be, their fuc
ceis is moil eat neftly to be wifhcd, and amounts to a certainty.
I hey have been regularly bred and employed in that business in
the city of Nantz, 111 France, where the air of calico and papj- r
hanging printing is improved beyond any part of Europe. The
importation of printed i nens and cottons into the United States'"
estimated at fixty-five thousand pounds annually, besides which
are very large quantities of hangings made.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
BOSTON.
Loan-OfHce Certificates, 4/7.
Pierce's Final Settlements, 4J).
Indents, 3J 2 -
li.'post Orders, 15/u
Specie Orders, 10f.
(Rr SUBSCRIPTIONS for the « COURIER DE BOSTON," -
nezv weekly paper, publijhcd at Bojion in the 'French Language, are re
ceived at No. 9, Maiden Lane. [ The utility of 1 paper miais aim" l
universal language need n6t be hinted to thole, who wish to ac
quire the French tongue. J _
03* Completefetts from the beginning, oj the GAZETTE OF THE
UN II ED STA'I ES, may at any time be obtained by thoji who chvj( 0
fubjynte for that publication, at the Editors Office, No. 9, Maiden-L ant-
THE \PRESIDENT'S HOUSEHOLD.
WHEREAS, all Servants and others, employed to piocuff
provisions, or lupplies, for the Household of The
of the United S.tates, will be furniihed with monies lor thoK
purposes. Notice is therefore given, That no accounts, for
payment of which the Public might be cor.fidered as relpO"'
fible, are to be opened with any of them.
Samuel Fraunces, Steward of the Hovfcho'
Publifticd by JOIttTFENNO, No. 9, Maide^"
Lane, near the Os wkco-Mar ket, New-York.