PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS P.Y JOHN FENNO, No. 4 r, BROAD-STREET, NcAR THE EXCHANGE. -WW-YOS.::
£No. xo, cf Vol. IT.]
fOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
AN ADDRESS
TO THE CREDITORS OF THE US 7 IT ED STATES,
YOU are entitled to great refpefl*—lf you had not been our best
citizens, you would not have been our creditors, your pat-
Tiotifm made you such. When you performed services or lenc
your property, you nobly despised your immediate pcrfonal in
terests, or rather you looked beyond them. You law that if th
country was loft, you would have nothing to save. Is it in hu
man nature to perform this noble effort but once ? Is it the n tira
effect of felf interest to blind the eyes and to harden the h art ? o
jikc a dark lantern, does it throw a ftroug light upon what is near
while it involve* diftanr obje&s in a deeper thade ? Your patr
otifm has been proved hv your conduct: you are called, and ver*
juftlv, enlightened men ; how then can you be prevailed upon to
wifli that your own debt may be funded and that of the States ri
je&ed ? Their claims are as just as your Qwn. It is your intcrelt
to maintain a refpeft for justice, and to impress it upon the legif
laiure. Will vour own rights be-held inviolablr after tht ir fellov
rights are impaired in the ruin of the State creditors ? If the State*
can pay their own debts you lose nothing by throwing tliem into
the common (lock. If they cannot pay them, arc you neutral
fpeftators of their ruin ? Are you fafe while they fink ? When juf
ticeceafes to be a rule of public conduct, the shame which re
trains will be less, and the Temptation will be greater, which in
cites to destroy the domestic debt. If justice would not protefl
25 millions, will policy spare millions ?
If you regard humanity, the ruin of the State creditors ought to
move you. They will be-involved in dittrefs. The very money
that has been given to you has Idng been given to them ; it ha:>
grown familiar to their touch ; they gave up thr import which
was nearly equal to the pavmcnt of their interest in some of the
"States; 2nd now you aic told that the other funds occupied by the
State?, the last resource of their creditors, are to be d< strayed by
your laws, or greatly impaired bv your imposing on
the articles taxed \iy the States as much duties as they can bear.
If you believe that the duties intended to be imposed by Gongrefs
will be duly collefVrd, the difti ess of the State creditors is equa
ly manifeft and deplorable. As to their dependingon dire# tax
es <it is a mockery of their rights and of their injuries too. They
will not yield muck, nor that Tittle with certnrncy, while the ci
tizens, w any thing ner.r equal to the inter til of the -State debts
should be .levied, would fuffcr the 1710 ft violent opprcflion and be
driven from tlreir fnrms mto the wildcriiefl, while in other States
they would be almost free from burdens which to be just ought
to be equal. But experience has piovd, and thr woild knows
that some of theStstes cannot pay their debts ; you who claim jus
tice, should insist upon impartial justice.
But other motives arc not wanting even if yon-put ofT the poli -
tician and fay, let ns g<*t our due—-and let juftMce l<e <iee-med aic It,
—let the government fall into conlufion—let the country ftiffrr
disgrace and ruin—let t-be brave officer or soldier who has f«ivcd
it, keep his Sra'e paper—it is the proof of hi* merfts and of the
degree ;n which ws country oure cftremed thrni—let him pine
and com pi tun m fee ret—do not mind the pulsations of your own
(ympathy be ijiiickrmd bv the ifYeivfi tern of
widows and oeggaied orphans. Thefie are subjeCts, it is true,
which come home to the fieiit and wound it. Yhey maHce the
bread bitter which vou < at, not only while thev want it, hut
which you will eat want it—For yon ;me to be pro
vided for, not only by leaving them unprov drrd, but -by tak n j
away what they depend i:pin. Thefc are topic* which regard
yon a* men. They Src leifons which the heart teaches iitWf. But
it lelfiflinefs has etKomnMfed it wi'h circles, het OS agree to re
nounce juAice, companion, and Irilen cnily to t l »e dilates of felf
interest. Ought wife am 5 , prude ntccditolrs of the union to wilh
the State creditors to be rxcludi«d from jxroviliou by Congress ?
If tht funding system fo.mueh J cured, has been delayed, has
not tflis been owing to the drb.'te upon the afTu'inption ? IT the
system n fttll in danger m its paffape, i& tot this to be imputed to
the division created by this qucftion ? AJo not many members
think it a meafureof abfolure jufticc—that norualjuoding i* work
than none at all 4 that positive injustice he flone if the reve
nues now occupicd by the Sates should "be i.npaircd ? If the af
'umption was once established, the funding system would be!
fpeediiy cnaficd. Nor do you lose anything in pi int of interest, |
tor it is not propefed to give vou an higher interest without the
atfumption than with it. Will you lu(e aa-y thin* tn point erf
fecuiiry in thccxcctiticn of the system ? the foci of the alTump
f ion allow that it will llrengthcn government ; can you doubt thjt ,
it will the collection of the duties more popular ? The St. t
crcditors will rot iu that cafe futfer by your meant—they have the
'.'me interest with you, they will watch the revenues, nor will
the people approve of frauds which will wrong not only the pub
ic but their own friends and neighbors. It will diftufe common
niter efts and willies into everv corner ; you will have the whof
• nnc.s under one energetic uniform system, and all inaereih ccm
nncd tt» itipport it. If you canuot procure money en> u»h in this
way, \ou would get lefe by the other. Your public officers in
form von that the funds will be fuffi event—nor ctin it be doubted,
at .cast one system would not injure the other. You will no
'hercfore lose by affirming the State debts.
See the oilier fide of Ilie piece, and judge whether you will be
if they fhonld not be assumed.
If the ftntc creditors mult fall at last, they will make a v.go.ous
•I.on ftrfi—they will expert that pro* i lion will he mule by then
"f.es. It it Ihould tiot be made, will thev make the collertiou
■it vo.rr revenue popplar ? Will arts obnoxious by their nature,
i nc. not trlvto enforce because of the extent to which it is necef
my topulh them, furnifh a refourec to you, thatwill be Cafe and
produrtivc? and do you expert this to happen in prooo.tion a.
the cUmors of the injured creditors lhall swell the note of popu
lar difcoment? Rut fuppote the state leg.flatures should, from a
of l"'' 1 "", <'r for any other reasons, . evife their revenue atls,
•od carry them at far as inay lie neceflary to do that justice to their
r reMiors which'hey are no less entitled to than youtfelves, how
iifteft the provision which CongrtTs may make for your
•f in - Which will give way, the state laws, or those ol the United
>uies ' Die ol j> rt of the former will be as laudable, and better
vwnanted Uv iieceifity limn the latter. For no option is left to
the impost is taken away. With the confidence of the
people, with Ihe powcrlul aid ol their creditors, who greatly cx
leed you in numbers and influence, will the state legillatures, be
obliged to recede and annul their laws ; or will they be unable to
roUtt their duties? Will the creditors on the 1 pot watch for
>ou, and exert ilienifclves to swell your revenue to the deUrurti
cn of that of the state, on which they depend ? Or if boil, cam,..
col »eatd, will they uot rather with vour'i to fail, and bytl a
means to t ufure their own? If the dulled articles will no: bear
h du:: «. ha s tr.oft cause to fear a failure ? You or thev ?
SATURDAY, MAY iy, 1790,
If the article will bear both duties, why oppose the assumption'?
for it is plain that if a duty imposed by a (late is productive,
more money would be obtained by extruding it over the union.
If you will regard coufider.uions, equally weighty, tho a littje
moie remote, will you think a provihon permanent and late
which divides the government againll itfelf, which ferments while !
it is forming, vi:h the principle of deftruttion ? 'If a public dcot i
is a principle ot union, here is a debt which divides—withrmt a j
-bt, who caai fay that we fnould have hada government i What ;
was uleful to form is indifpenfiblv necejfary to prelerve it. It '
Aould be fafe to trull your felf interest to mpke its owji terms, »f'
y hi would ast as the permanent good of your whole number if. j
aires. But immediate interest is often preferred to'that which
ill last long, and indjvicuals may not only find indemnity, but
derr-e advantage from measures wb ■ch will ruin the body to
which they belong. Funding the debt on the moil unMelunds, i.
may railc the price ot r, and "keep it up until expenence lias
fhewu that they are not to bt truflrd. Mmy of your number,
who only wi!h to fell out, will have ail opportunity. Butfure-!
I . you, who mean to continue cieditors, ought not to be dup. d
by the artifices oft'nofe who prefer any prefeut pioviftun, how
ever unfound,io a solid arrangement which willeplure the govern
ment and be ensured by it. Are you willing to bring the Hate
and national government's direfily to the conflitt ? Arp you wii
-1 |ig to throw thrft system into confufion on which you place all '
your hoVes? Are you content in mere wantonneCs to raise up e
nemies whose repniiches you cannot bear, whose etf irts you can
not relist ? Is it nothing to you that the government willie made '
weak ? For what do you incur this rilk.? Not for an inereafe of
intrrcli—not for better fecuriiy.
Is there a prudent man among you, who comparing the fund
ing fyltem without the alfumpiiou, with tiie conduct of other na
tions, and judging ol the intercils and pafli<ms rtf the ilate credi
tors, and legislatures, as he will i{ he knows any thin» of humm
nature, will fay, «ravely,anil upon r.<:i)c£tion, tiie revenue willhe
more fafe and prodn&ive, without alfuinption than with it ? J
Will he fay that the it lies may proceed with their duties, and even
exten d them to a full pro ifion tor their debts, and vec the revc-;
nue ol the union will not proverlcficient ? If he w:!l faythat there
■•vill not be a deficiency of one-third,you ought to prize him as a
prnflliet. He will fjive encouragement and keep hop: alive loirg
enough to feil out—but beware of being hindmoll.
Judge then whether the inteieft of your own paper does not re
quire the aflfucption ; you cannot he fate without i'. Patronize
jtiftiee and prattilo magnanimity H'hich will-cost you nothing,
Uutdo you hou:)r, by inlitling (but the pronSxi fhfll cortijii't-'
he»d the kmdied claims of ihe flute or dltofi. They are not
y > ir rivals ; they are unfrieciily lo I,oth, who would divide .you.
1 your whole inHurrce is dirofled lo thit object, you will ren
tier (ervice to yout country, at the time time that you will belli
promote yuur own imrrelt.
Renumber that as the adoption of the.new rorvftiiittiun raifrtl
your hopes, the undmng it in praftite nisy hlal) them. Dtf.i.im
tin- liiiwoulijf *nd riiflt'tiifft fchetrc of invading the funat of state'
cr •riitors, to (mm your own. Likr honcil men, take your fol-i
liwshvthe luwd, unite your exertions in the common caule a'
cau(r worthy of y >ur virtu.' and of your coMltry. lufuccefj will
icward ihe aiir., aiid fevt-theo'tlier. * j
QISCCMJ/tSES ON D AVI LA.
No. IV. concluded fiom our last.
C'eft la le proprc de I'clprit humain.que lcsexemples necorrigent ;
pcrfonnr; lesfottifej, cVc* pcics font peidues pour leurs cufaiis;
il faut Life les ficnncs. |
' I 'HERE is in human nature, it is trne, Cmple !
J- Bcnevo'lcnce—or an aifrrtlou for the good '
ofothers—but alone it is not übalance forthel'eJ- 1
fifh affedtions. Nature then has kindly added
to benevolence, the defireof reputation, in order
to make us good members of society. Speeiemur
agendo expre'les the great principle of activity
for the good of others. Nature has famftioned
the law of felf-prefervation by rewards and pun
i foments. The rewards of felfifh adtivity are
life and health—the punishments of negligence j
and indolence arc want, disease and death! Eath
individual it is true ihauld consider, that nature
has enjoined the fame law on his neighbor, and :
therefore a refpetft for the aiuhori.i y of nature
would oblige him to lefpedt the rights of others ;
as much as his own. But rcafoning as abstruse, I
tho as flmple as this, would not occur to all men. I
The fame nature therefore has impofod another
law, that of promoting the good, as well as ref
petting the rights of mankind, and hasfanclion
ed it by other rewards and punishments. The re
wards in this cafe, in this life, are etteem and ad
miration of others—the ipiinifoments are neglect
and contempt—nor may any one imagine that
these are not as real as the others. The delire of
the eftceni of others is as real a want of nature as
hunger—and the negledt and contempt of the
world as severe a pain, ns the gout or (tone. Jt
foonerand ofrener produces delpair and a detes
tation of exiilence—of equal importance to indi
viduals, to families, and to nations—it is a prin
cipal end of government to regulate this pafli»n,
which in its turn becomesa principal means of go
vernment. It is the only adequate instrument of
order and fuhordinarion in society, and alone
commands effectual obedience to laws, since with
out it neither human reason nor ftandingarmies,
would ever produce tliatgreat effedt. Every per
sonal quality, and every blefling of fortune, is
cherifoed in proportion to its capacity of gratify
ing this universal affection for the efleem, the
sympathy, admiration and congratulations of the
public. Beauty in the face, elegance of figure,
grace of attitude and motion, richcs, honors,
every thing, is weighed in thisfcale, and desired
453
not so much for the pleasure they nfto'd, as th' c
attention they command. As this is a point of
giirnpoi tance, it may be pardpuaule to expa
tiate a little, upon theie particulars
A Jiy are the pei fonal accomplillim en ts of beau
ty, elegan e and .grace, i'ucJi higuclUma
tio:i by mankind > !s it merely for the pieafb-re
which is received from the fight of thefeatti ib-utes?
Ijy no means ; Ihe talle tor delicacies is
not universal—in those who feel the molt lively
sense of them, it is but a flight sensation, and of
Ihori continuance ; those attradiohs'command
tlie noiice and attention of the public— t hey dr-nv
the eyes of fpcdlators -this is the charm that
makes them in evitable, is it for such fading
perfections that an huiband or a wife is choferi i
Alas, it is well known, that a very lhort familiar
ity, totally deltroys alUenfe and attention to such
properties ; and on the contrary, n very little
time and habit destroys all the averiion to wtrlj.
ness ami deformity, wUen unattended with dif
cal'e or ill-temper : Yet beauty and addrels are
courted and admired, very often, more than dis
cretion, wit, ienfe, and many other accompli/h
---i.ients and virtues, oi infinitely inone importance
to the h tppinefs cf private life, as well as to the
utility and ornament of focietv. j s j t f ar
momentous pnrpofc of daijciag and drawing
painting and malic, riding or fencing, that mell
and women are deltined in this life or anv other '
Yet those who have the belt means of education
be-tow more attention and expense on thofe,than
on more fori id acquisitions. Why ! Becaufethey
attratft taore forcibly the attention of the world
and procure a better advancement in life. Not
withltanding al. this, as soon as an eltabliflnnent
in life is made, they are found to ha-ve atjftvered
theii cud, andareJaid ahdeneoJecfted.
Is there any thing in birth, however illuftriotis
or fplepdid, which should make a difference be
tween one man and another i If, f rom a com
mon ancestor, the whole human race is defceneled
they are all of the fame family. How then t ail
they dillinguiihfamilies into tlie more or the lei;
' ancient > What advantageis there in an illtiftra
turn of an hundred or a thoiifand years ? Of wlrac
a>ail are all tlig biftories, pedigrees,.traditions ?
\\ liac foundation lias the w-hole science of cenea
logy and heraldry ? Are theredifferences hi Hre
breeds ofmeu, as theie are in those of horses ?—
11 there are not, those fliences have no founda
tion in reafoii—in -prejudice ther have a verv fc
lid one : All that philosophy can'lay is, that there
is a general prefumption,that a man-has had some
advantages of education if he is of a family of
note. But this advantage mull be derived from
his father and mother chiefly, j.f not wholly-of
what importance is it then, in this view, whether
the family is twenty generations upon record or
only two ? '
The mighty secret lies in this—an illtrftrimis
UCiccnt attracts the noticc of mankind. A single
drop of royal blood, however illegitimately Rati,
tercd, will make any man or women proud or vain
Why ? Because, altho it excites the indignation*
of many, and the envy of more, it ltill attracts
the attention ofthe world. Noble blood, whether
the nobilty be hereditary or eleiitive, and indeed
more in republican governments than inmonar.
chies, leait of all in clefpoti fins, is held in eUinta
tion for the fame reason. It is a name and a lace
that a nation has been interested in, and is in the
habit of refpecfling. Benevolence, sympathy
congratulation, have been so long aflbciated lo
those names in the minds ofthe people, thatthev
are become national habits. National gratitude
descends from the father to the ion, and is often
ltionger to the latter than the former: It is often
excited by remorse, upon reflection on the ingra
titude and injustice with which the former has
been treated. When the names of a certain fam
ily are read in all thegazettes,chronicles, records,
and hi.lories ofa country for five hundred years
they become known, refpedied, and delighted in
by every body. A youth, a child of this extrac
tion, and hearing this name, arrraCis the eyes and
ears of all companies long before it is known or
enqnired, whether he be a wife man, or a fool,
his name is often a greater diftindtion, than a
title, a kar, or a garter. This it is which makes
." ,en P rol 'd, and so many others envious
of llludrious descent. The pride is as irrational
and contemptible as the pride of riches, and no
, A Wl '* e n >an will lament that any other
diltmdhon than that of merit should be made.—
A good wan, will neither be proud nor vain of his
birth ; but will earnestly improve every advan
tage he lias for the public good. A cunning man
* conceal his pride; but will indulge
[V. r HOT.E Xi. H4.]it in secret, the mors effectually, and improve his
advantage to greater profit. But was any man
ever known so wife, or so good, as really to del
pife birth or wealth? Did you ever read of a
man rising to public notice, from obscure begin
ings who was not refle<fted on ? Althowith every
liberal mind, it is an honot- and a proof of merit,
yet it is a disgrace with mankind in general. —
What a load offordid obloquy and envy has every
such man to carry? The contempt that is thrown
upon obscurity of ancestry augments the e3ger
jiefs for theftupid adoration that is paid to its
illustration.
1 his desire ofthe consideration of our fellow
men, and their congratulations in our joys, is not
less invincible, than thedelireof their fyinpathy
in our sorrows. It is a determination of our na
ture, that lies at the foundation of our whole mor
al fyilem in this world, and may be connedied
elfemially with our deltination in a future state.
Why do inen pursue riches ? What is the end of
avarice ? These queftionsmaybeanfwered in
our next.
lOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
TH E ingenious and elegant author of the
Tablet No. CXI. takes notice of the early
decay of our females, and hints that the impro
per dress used by them in the winter season is
one cause of that unfortunate fadl. It would
pleaf'e me to fee another number devoted to
the fubjetft ; but as he willies his hint to be
enlarged upon by others, 1 fear he will not a -
gain favor us with his reflections on this impor
tant head. My love to that amiable part of the
creation from whom my principal happiness is
derived (for I am a family man, ladies) makes
me take up the pen to point out to my fair coun
trywomen the fatal efFedts of adopting fafhions
only calculated for climatcs entirely different
from ours.
I have known a lady confined all day to the
house in winter weather,fcarcely protected from
the cold by handkerchiefs and shawls, yet when
the fun has withdrawn his heat and the coldness
of the air is nearly doubled, she drefles for foine
public place ; the handkerchief and ihawl are
thrown aside, a thin gauze supplies their place,
and the tender creature turns out exposed to an air
■which would make an icelander shiver. What is
the consequence ? A cough, which racks her for
the remainder of the winter—perhaps till death
lhatches her from a joyless existence.
Take warning by the pale shadows who crawl
along our streets—remember, they are the vic
tims of fafhion. I like to fee a well drefled wo
man—l am pleased at feeing beauty solicitous to
please. But I would have the ornaments of win
ter differ from those of summer. I would have
iny countrywomen disdain to copy from any part
of the world.
Would it not move our laughter, or upon a
luppofition of insanity, our pity, to fee a person
in the midit of fuminer wrapped in the furs of
Ruflia ? and is it not equally absurd to fee on a
winter's day, a female array'd in the fafhions of
the south of Fiance ! Let ine conjure ye ladies
of America ! If you would wifli to pleal'e—if you
wish to be capable of being pleased—is you wish
for health, or to be the happy mothers of healthy
children, accommodate yourdrefsto the changes
of our climate : do not for the hope of a mo
mentary admiration bring upon yourselves an
untimely old age, with all its pains, and without
any of its honors.
{We lately inserted an Extract from the speech of Mr.
Burke, in the Britijh House oj Commons. The
following are subsequent observations of other mem
htrs on that occajion.~\
MR. SHERIDAN warmly reprobated the
speech of Mr. Burke, which he said con
tained sentiments direcftly contrary to the princi
ples which he had hitherto profefled. He had
come forward as the advocate of despotism, and
had branded with the most severe epithets the ex
ertions of men struggling for their liberty. What
was that government, he would a(k, the down
fall of which his right honorable friend lament
ed ? It was founded on despotism, difgraceful to
human nature, and which had involved the coun
try in misery and ruin. In that aflembly, which
the right lion, gentleman had thought fit to ftig
matlze as a lawless, ferocious, and sanguinary
democracy, there were many men of very en
lightened minds, and they had already made
great progress in eftablilhing a constitution on the
ruins of that despotic fabric which they had de
moliftied, and which hetrufted would never again
rear its head. He admitted that particular in
stances ofcruelty and outrage had occurred,which
he lamented in common with every man ; and he
was afraid that the well known humanity of his
right hon. friend had, on that account, given
his mind a bias, which had prevented him from
perceiving the jofticeof that cause which gave li
berty and a free constitution to so great a number
of men. He could not help exprefling a consider
able degree of surprise to hear irom his lit. Hon.
LONDON.
Friend that this country had derived 110 advan
tages from the revolution in 1688, further than
a confirmation of antient rights. He had always
understood it in a difFerent point of view ; an
though lie had no objection to date the antiquity
of some of our moll: valuable privileges at a more
remote period, yet he concluded, that our Con
stitution at the Revolution acquired many im
portant and essential improvements, which it had
not beiore enjoyed.
Mr. Burke rose again, and claimed the indul
gence of the house for a few minutes. He ex
pected, lie said, that if the right hon. gentle
man who spoke hilt had not heard him with any
degree of partiality, that he would at least have
dated what had fallen from him with firinnefs and
candor. But he had grossly misrepresented every
argument he had urged. Every man who knew
him knew that he wastheprofefled enemy ofdef
potifm in every shape, whether it was, as he had
dated,the splendid despotism of Lewis XIV. orthe
outrageous democracy of the present govern
ment, which levelled all didinCtions of men.—
There were many persons in this country, he
was afraid, who entertained theories of govern
ment not very confident with the fafety of the
Hate. There were some he believed who were
ready to transfer that anarchy which prevailed in
France to this country, for the purpose of effec
tuating their own designs.
The right hon. gentleman had thought pro
per to accuse him of being the advocate of des
potism, and the libeller of the National Aflem
bly. He denied it. The whole tenor of his life,
he hoped, had proved, that though he was an e
neiny to licentiousness, he was a firm friend to
liberty—But, said Mr. Burke, if the hon. gen
tleman and I are to leparate, he may find the fa
crificeofhis friend more than amply repaid by
the applause of the Clubs.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer warmly compli
mented Mr. Burke on his speech, which he laid
merited the gratitude of his country.
LONDON, March 16,
The National Aflembly have passed a decree,
abolishing all excluiive privileges for fending let
ters or papers by the post ; but in order to sup
port the liberty of the press, the post (hall be ob
liged to carry printed works, which are not
bound, also pamphlets, journals, and advertife
uients, at the 1 ate o( one sol per (heet or half flieet.
The King of Pruflia, in his preparations for
war, is not unmindful of theinterefts of Science.
He has lately purchased the Rolofiian Library,
consisting of 5085 volumes, colletficd at Berlin by
the Reverend M. Roloff.
The King of Hungary set out from Florence on
the iftinftant, on his journey to Vienna, where
he has given orders that he fliould not be received
with any extraordinary pomp.
From France, the accounts are favorable. The
municipality ofParis have agreed to advance nine
millions taking the product of certain convents
for their interest 'and security—thus in a great
tneafure preventing, perhaps, a national bank
ruptcy.
The importation of tallow from America is ra
pidly encreafing, to the consequent decrcafe of
the importation of the fame article from Russia.
The change is particularly advantageous to this
country, as the Americans in return take more
of our manufactures than the Ruffians; the im
portation of American tallow ought therefore to
be encouraged in preference to Ruffian, though
every measure ought in policy to be taken by the
Legislature to decrease the importation of tallow,
by encreafing the consumption of oil, and there
by affording the greatell possible encouragement
to the British whale fifhery.
The Duke'of Tufcany is now in his 43d year,he
married an infanta of Spain, by whom he has if
lue eight sons, and four daughters.
The Emperor of Germany does not enjoy, as
Emperor, a greater revenue than ij,oool. a year
so that if his own hereditary dominions are not
great, the Imperial dignity can be only an in
cumbrance to him.
The fame of the late Mr. Howard, properly
diftinguifhedby the title of " The Philanthropic
Howard," was so well known all over Europe,
that he seldom walked the streets without being
followed by a crowd of people, who paid him a
refpetl little ffiort of adoration.
When the above gentleman set out lad upon
his travels, instead of letters of credit, he carried
with him Bank-Nores ; and though, perhaps, such
a paper currency was never before seen in Cher
fon, where he died, such was the public depen
dence on his veracity, that theytookthem ascafli,
and as such they were circulated all about the
country on the niere credit of his name.
It is much to be regretted, that this amiable
man was taken off in theinidil; of his philanthro
pic investigation of the causes and cure of that
horrible difteinper, the plague. He had pro
posed to pass three years abroad ; to visit Grand
Cairo twice, to go to Constantinople : to those
Northern parts of Africa bounded by the Medi
terranean ; to fee the armies of the Turks, Ruf
fians and Imperialists ; and to publish the result
of his obfervatioris.
454
LONDON, MARCH to.
At the h«ad of every philamhropic institution th*t can reticle
distress, benefit the community, aud iccfaim vice, Hands the
name of the Duke of Leeds. Eiteeuied by all ranks of people,
beloved and rupe&ed by his tenants and his family J we may cru-
Iy.fet his Gtace down as one of the best cliaia&ers now exiilin".
Let the Duke of Bid FORD look here for the true road to popu
larity, lor lie will never find ii in a stud at Newmarket, a Con
tefttd elcftiou for WeftminilUr, or at any Club at Brooks's or
Boodle's.
M. Neckir leaves Paris immediately, and goes firft t6 Spa to
drink the wnns, and after that to his country I'cat, on the Lake
of Geneva, where he will remain till his health is re-eilabliihcd.
The couit of Pruilia has publicly received a minilterfrom ih;
States of Brabant—our eoi'. t has declined doing f<> for ihe preftnt.
In the important bulinefs of the (lave trade, the National A!-
f. nibly ol France have givcu their decision, declaring, that they
do no: mean to intcifere with any species of lummerct carried on
by the Wefl-India Islands, and desiring their colonifls 10 iffcm
bleiogether, and fettle their own affairs as seems most expedient
to tliemfelvr«
PAO Li's F.LLCriON.
A letter was read from the Coriicans, by which it apprfred,
that they had elected the famous Paoli commander in chiefot their
national torccs. So proper a choice was hoaored with the ap
plaufesofthe affemblv.
"JEWISH ANECDOTE.
In a Coffee-Houfe near Leadenhall-ftreet,where
the Prieftlean controversy became the topk of
converlation, an Israelite, whose lur|gs merely
were much too (trong for his antagonist, after
the former had retired, was pluming himfelf up
on his prowess in defeating him, &c. and with an
air of eclat alked another israelite if he had not
served the Philistine right! Molt certainly yon
have, replied he ; and if ever I have an engage
ment with any of them, Ifliould be much obliged
to you for your jaw-bone.
PHILADELPHIA, May n.
A pathetic and elegant tragedy, called the
Widow of Ma la bar, written by Col. Humphreys
late aid dc camp to the Prefidejit of the United
States, was performed on Friday to ajudicious and
brilliant audience, with uncommon :n; rksofapprc
bation, whose repeated plaudits evinced the fatif
fa&ionthey received. The scenery was striking
and pitflurefque, (that of the funeral pile full of
majcjlic horror) and the drelles well chosen : The
performers exerted themselves in a particular
manner ; in short no piece that has appeared in the
western world has been received with louder
bursts of applause, and from the general avidity
exprefied by all ranks of people for its repetiti
on, there can be no doubt but it will be as largely
produtftive of profit to the theatre, as it has been
of fame to its amiable author.
NEW-YORK, SATURDAY, MAY r?.
Wednesday last being the anniversary of the
Sons of St Tammany, orColumbian Orper,
the society walked in proceflion from Bardin's in
Broad-Way, to the new brick Church, -wheie an
oration ""as delivered by brother W. P. Smith ;
and a collection amounting to thirty pounds, was
made fordiftrcfled debtors—after whifch anOde,
conipofed by brother Low, and set to uiufic for
the occasion, was performed.
From church the society marched to brother
Campbell's at Greenwich—where they partook
of an elegant entertainment, to which his Ex
cellency the Governor, the Mayor, and the prin
cipal officers of w he Cincinnati were invited.
After dinner thirteen toasts were given.
The officers of the society, and many of the
members were fuyerbly habited in Indian drefles
—the novelty of their appearance excited uni
versal attention, and the day being fine, thefcene
collected a prodigious concourse of people.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YORK.
Snow Paragon, Nicholfon, Liverpool, 56 days-
Sloop Sally, Howell, GaudalOupe, 20 day*.
To be SOLD,
For CERTIFICATES, Or exchanged for LAND,
TWENTY-Two acres of ground in the City of New-York,
fronting Great George-Street, Bowry Lane, and Greenwich-
Lane. On the premifc# is a brick dwelling house containing ten
rooms; a smaller brick house with four rooms; a house with 1
brick front with two 100 ms : In each house is a Kitchen, and un
der the whole four cellars; a never failing spring is near one of
the kitchens; a frame stable and *a coach-house with ftablci.
From the dwelling house both the North and the East rivers are
plain to the view. Additional improvements have been made
this Spring, the ground has been laid out for pleasure as well ?*
for utility ; it is provided with variety of orchard and other fruit;
part of the land has also been sown with timothy and clover.
1 o be fold for certificates of the national debt, which will be re
ceived at the nominal value. Dollars at Bs. Or for good upland,
even it covered with wood, provided it is situated on the follow
ing 1 ivers, or on creeks as far as navigable,communicating with the
Lme, vi/. At the Potowmac above Alexandria,at James River a
bove Richmond, in South-Carolina, about one hundred milesfrorn
the sea shore, on Santce Edifto or Ponpon river, or on Savannah
river. If not fold at pi ivate fafe before the 15th of May, it will
then on the above terms be disposed of by Public Vendue at the
merchants Coffee-Houfe.—For further particulars enquire of Mi.
Poellnitz on the premises. New-York. April 10, i 79°*
William Taylor,
Has; for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No. 3. Qu E E N-St R EET,
Aflortment of EAST-INDIA GOODS
Amonn which are the following Article! :
BOOK Muslins 8-4 6-4 5-4 || HUMHUMS,
Jackonet do. || Long Cloths,
Hankerchiefs,of various kinds.ll Caflat,
Chintzes, || Seersuckers,
Ginghams, || Bogla pores.
A Variety of handsome painted MUSLINS.
With many other Articles, * ',ich will be fold by the Ptcce »r
Package, low for tafh,
VCONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
WEDNESDAY, MAY 12.
rpHE bill for repealing afterthe last day of next, the duties
1 heretofore laid upon Wines, imported from foreign ports or
places, and laying others in their stead, was read the second tim
and referred to a committee of the whole house on Monday nexi'
The house then proceeded to reconsider such of their amend'
ments propoled to the bill sent from the Senate, entitled •< An
art lor giving effect to the ast therein mentioned, in refoeft to the
State of North-Carolina, and to amend the said ast," as were dis
agreed to by the Senate ; and thereupon the house
RMvid, That a conference be desired with the Senate on the
fubjeel matter or laid amendments; and that Mr. White Mr Steele
Mr. Foster, Mr. Livermore, and Mr. Williamfon, be'appointed
manageis at the laid conference on the part of the house
Agreeable to the order of the day, the house again Kfolved it
fclf into a committee of the whole on the report of the committee
to whom was referred the petition of the merchants and traders of
the town of Portsmouth, in New-Hamplhire. The motion for
striking out the clause which proposes a tonnage of ,00 cents on
foreign bottoms, was put and negatived. A motion was then made
to inCeit 75 cents in lieu of too. This was also negatived. The
committee role and reported progress.
Mr. Benfonfrom the joint committee of both house. appointed
to consider and report their opinion on the question " When ac
cording to the Condition, the terms, for which the President]
yice-PreGdent Senators and Representatives, have been refpeftive
ly chosen, foall be deemed to have commenced" and also to con
sider of and report their opinion on, such other matters as they
(hall conceive to have relation to this queftioti, made a report
which was read, and is at follows.
" That the terms for which the President, Vice-President, Sen
ators and Representatives ot the United States were refpeftively
chosen, did, according to the Constitution, commence on the 4 th
of March, 1789, and lo the Senator, of the firft cljfs, and the Re
presentatives, will not, according to the Constitution, be entitled
b-, virtue of the Tame eleftionby which they hold feats in the pre
sent Congress, to feats ,n the next Congress, which will be a(Tem
af'C^th,? 3 d ° f March > '79>- And further, that whenever a
vacancy (hall happen in the Senate, or House of Representatives,
and an election to fill such vacancy, the person elected will not,
according to the Constitution beentitled by virtue of fucheleftion,
to hold a feat beyond the time, for which the Senator or Repre
tentative, in whole stead such H erfonfhall have been elected, would
if the vacancy had not happened, have been entitled to hold a feat
That it will be advifeablefor Congress to pass a law, or laws
tor determining, agreeable to the provision in the Ift fee ofthesd
art. of the Constitution, the time when theeleftors shall, in the
year which will terminate on the 3 d of March 1701, and so in
every fourth year thereafter, be chosen, and the day on which they
(hall give their vote., for declaring what officer (hall, in cafe of va
cancy, both in the office of President and Vice President, ast as
President ; for affigmng a public office where the lifts mentioned
in the 2 d paragraph of the ift fee. of the id ait. of the Constitu
tion, (hall, in cafe of vacancy in the office of President of the Se
nate, or in his abfencefrom the f, at of government, be in the mean
li. m n usP °f ; a ," d for d ' raflln S lh e mode in which such lifts
Ihall be transmitted. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, MAY 13
Sundry petitions were rr-ad and referred
In committee of the whole on the proportion in the report of
the felecc committe for enhancing the duty of tonnage! on loieijn
bottoms.- Mr. Seney in the clrair,
Mr. Smith (S. C.) moved an amendment to the claule pofl
poning the commencement of the dutytothe firftof January next •
this amendment wa: agreed to.
Mr. Madison after a debate of confutable length, proposed an
amendment to the proportion, by adding after the word> "fo
reign bottoms," these words Belonging lo nations not in com
mercial treaty with the l T nitcd States."
Th i motion wa. oppofcd by Mr, Fitrfimons, Mr. Lawranee,
Mr. Ames, Mr. Sherman and Mr. Wadfworth ; and fuppo.tcd by
Mr. Page and Mr. Willi,mfon ; the quertion being put it was
earned inthe affirmative-Ayes 32, Noes 19. The resolution as
amended, was then agreed to by the committee and (lands
That the tonnage on all foreign built bottoms belonging to na
tion not in commercial treaty with the United States, be raised to
the lum of one dollar per ton. from and after the firft day of la
nuary nexf. 7 J
Thecommittee rose and reported progress.
The report of the committee on the memorial of the officers of
the late navy ol the United Sta e, was read ; this report was in
i? r , J J r T n !' hc P ra > erof lhc Diemorialifts, viz .hat they
Ihould be placed on a similar footing with the officers of the late
allowed five year, pay; ] a .d
on the table. Adjourned.
Amount ojthe duties received on Tonnage frU ijt Stptemher to 1,1 ft
December, 1789.
States. Foreign lon- American
m S e.
469 50
4' B '9 37i
618 8
®<?39 8?4
8 3 5°
11.,587 64
603
4-994 5i
11,210 93^
4. fi 3° 59
2,600 I 7
New-Hamplhire,
Mafiachufetts,
Conne&ieut,
New-York,
Jit w-Jerfey,
Pennlylvauu,
JMaware,
Maryland,
Virginia,
South-Carolina,
Georgia,
$°, 366 72 11,990 5 62,356 77
FRIDAY, MAY 14.
Id committee of the whole honfe on the r. port of the frlcfl com
•mtieerelpetttngin enhanced tonnage on foreign vefTeU.—Mr
fioudinot in thecbair.
Mr. M«i,fon moved in addition to the tcfolution agreed to vef
,v 10 the following words, viz : That from and after the
jr nc * t the tonnage on all such vessels be raised to
j™ ,nJ af ' cr,he day of ntxi no such vdTel
td£iTL 10 e l xp<>rt from ,he United unmanofaftur-
Wide being the gtowth or producc thereof.
" e cc ' rio ° cd 4 debate—but was finally carried in
The second resolution proposed by the felefl committee for an
!3'. n o' 10 Percent on the duties already imposed by law, on
t om places to which American veffela are not
this ' 5 movrd ">"uld be expunged from the report,
<ir mati».' on Tk'* Ddcd hv Mr - P"ker, and carried in theaf-
Th# k' r committee then rose and reported progress,
kv idrfi„° up ,hc refo , ,ut 'on, which was further amended,
y p '°*"S'h« following provlfo, via.
' ll ?* u,l ' ~ r e foli"ion (hall not extend to prohibit vef
"►" on w^l ' c '< permits the importation offilh, and other
I'MiUofil 11 tt"*' g j a J n ' and luml,er veffclt belonging to theci
w«sdom.jF n "i . r* Thc refo '"t'on being thus amended
*"'<>& in aK m r > aTK ' a Committee of three appointed to
AIB IT P ur,u »'" thereto.
that tbc\ h-f? received frotii the Senate informing the House
•d to cL,? a , ptr ttle rc port of the joint committee, appoint
r and report their opinion, when according to the
Total amount
of tonnage.
808 80
8,6841'
>.34° 55i
,o i*3 6 ,64
tonnage.
339 3°
3- 8 5J 60
722 47J
1,496 66j
"4 31
I<s>s 6
123 96
1,728 88£
'.423 3°i
433 84
I*6 65
307 81
13,10 a 70
726 g6
6.722 94
18,634 *4
5.064 43
2,726 82
contl, llUlool tht terras for which the Prefidcnt, Vlc-.P.ef.dcnt
re f P c ™ c 'y chosen, &=. and requcft Vhe S
c . C thc H °" rc ' That they have also pallid a bill for th- en
H^ffTh" 10 ' I,t ," atUrf! hy fcurin; to authors, &. the copy
6 ' '^ p ' r works-J-with amendment,.
tinr.'X committee appointed to take into coolj-ra
Virgin 'Tv ° u P o y ordcred - t0 tl,e officers and foldicrs of "the
repor" North Carolina lines of the la,e armv, brought in a
tTd"T P" f0 "-'", A 'g-rs, was intro-
A r,rL. *P«ker—read and referred to the Secretary of (late
A report °n the petu,on of Thomas Jenkins and Co/was read
Ad "jTw S r< " ,t,n g ,he prayerof said petition
Adjourned till Monday next,
THE TABLET No. CXIV.
" rfa person know tuhat to read, and hou, to read, all his Jludies mil
T turn to /me valuable account."
letter, pubhlhed in the lad number of the Tablet, re
readin/ 0m i mCI fU S I°™ rU ' C> r hat " Would be wdl to observe in
eading. I wilh the writer of that letter had extended his obfer
vat'onsa little further, and given some directions with refpeft to
A H,S rcmirks confined merely V the
eftabliffi ' VCry P e,linent t0 the pomt he meant to
m ° r " tofth L c principal difficulties in felefting authors to read
Mmv « l'Pf City f°f u°° ks thaUret ° b < «" all fub
ed he V r ? PP i "i" "° °" e defervc ' to b(: learn
canfu nfl Wlth '» the bo °ks his native language
an furnifh. This is too commoit an opinion. It induces us nSt
createsVro fT" 7 T'i 10 " Wh ' Ch " 0t entill<d to nnti «. but
r.a a cL?eeof h" V r"" (ct "' S to be no ftand » d *-
education ' " ° w' S ' dcafrd f " m the control of
ved in " ' r" ' S " everthclcfs B rcat precaution to be obfer.
in literary purfuitJ through every period of life
e,v mCn ° f . the llft Contur y could - with some propri
ed It U h '° P " r" ''u b °° k ' that had lhcn b, " m Pubhlh
ed. It is however unreafonablc to expect that a student of ih,
prefentday ffionld prescribe himfelf ! similar talk ?t ° no
rie v'T P l"'" unncccfr "Y- There are now a great va
riety of writer, on the fame fubjeft. If they agree in sentiment
will dT A n u' OCCaf '° n t0 read ,he ™ : a 'ld "f they disagree it'
IJ U the mind to a:tend to all their comradiftons It
would have a good effect if men, who have eftahliffied a hterary
character, would give their fanftion to the best publications in the
tent Ton 7n C > I' ° f fC,CnCe ' ,nd "~" d tb - to general au
tcnt'on In like manner, ,t would not be .mproper to aefi^nate
the most approved pieces both moral and entertain ng By this
means the young Gutlent might dire£l his researches, and not so
often havi» reason to repent hi, loss of time in nfelefs reading
%'X /"i"/. ook wuh tl " s remark; til I have leirntis
that the booh did not defervc to be read.
FROM THE DAILY ADVERTISER.
ELEGIAC ODE,
ON thi DEATH o» D«. FRANKLIH.
(Tunc, " Return earaptur'J hours."
THE faireA flow'rets bring
In all their vernal bloom,
And let the tweets of spring
Adorn great FRANKLIN'S tomb
The patriot's toil is done,
At lenj;h hit labors cease,
Th' unlading crown is won.
His Sun, descends in peace.
The sons of Science grieve, *
1 he patriot heaves a figli
And scarcely will believe
That so much worth can die.
No deathless is that name
Which ages shall admire ;
Ant'. FranklinS fpltnd..'. tau,
Shall but with time expire.
While rap;d fly,
While awful thunders roll,
While meteors gild the flcy,
And dart from pole to pole.
Mankind shall A 11 adinire
When Franklin's name thry hear,
* " Who fnatch'd eeleftialfire,
" And broke the oppreflor's spear.
Through cv'ry future ace
While hift'ry holds a pen,
She'll rank our virtuous Sage
Amongst the firft of men ;
And when ihe counts her sons
Who've earn'd immortal fame,
Shall next to WASHINGTON'S
Record our Fk anklin's name.
May 14.
* Ertpuit Ctrlofa/men, fceptrumjue Tyrannis.
Wc are informed that the followj. f u new pending befo, e the Senate of
the United States.
An ACT to prevent bringing Goods, Wares and
Merchandizes, from the State of Rhode-Illand
and Providence Plantations, into the United I
States and to authorize a demand of Money
from the said State. y
W HE i^ S " " nc " ffa, y t0 'he security of the revenue,
V V .lid other effemial intercfts of the United States, to pr. vide
agamft goods waves and merchandize,, being brought into the
fame through or from the State of Rhode-lOand and Providence
Plantations, so long as that State (hall refufe to assent to the Con!
ltitution and Laws of the United States :
S , l . c : V c . Rt •' ">« S ' d b the Senate and Hnfe of Refirefntathet of
the Vnrtcd'States of Amcrua, ,n Congrcf, .ajemhled, That from and
after the firft day of July next, no goods, wares or merchandizes,
«(the growth or manufacture of whatever place or country, (hall
be broughtinto the United Slates, from the State of Rhode.lfiand
and Providence Plantations, by land or water ; nor (hall any (hp
or veuel belonging to any inhabitant or inhabitants of the (aid
I State, enter any port, harbour, creek, or liver of the United
States, except in cafe of distress ; nor, except in a like cafe, (hall
any (hiporveffel belonging to any inhabitant or inhabitants of
the United Slates, enter any port, harbour, creek or river of the
laid State of Rhoae-Ifland and Providence Plantations ; And all
goods, wares and merchandizes, which Oiall be brought into the -
nited Slates contrary to this Ast, (hall be forfeited, together with
the (hips or vefTels in which the fame (hall be brought, if brought
mby water ;*or together with the carriage, horses and oxen
employed in conveying the fame, if brought in by land. And all
(hips and vessels which (hall enter anv port, harbor, creek or river
of the United States, contrary to this ast, (hall be forfeited, locre
iher with their lading : And all (hips and ve(lcls which. contr?ry
to this Act, (hall enter any poit, harbor, creek or river «.(the said
S:ate ol Rhode-Kland and Providencc Plantations, (hall befoifeit
ed, and (hall be liable to seizure in any port of the United States
at any time within oneyearafter such forfeiture (hall have accrued
And all pcrfons who (hall bring into the United States any goods,
wares or merchandizes, contrary to this Ast, or who (hall be aid
ing therein ; or who, being owners or captains of any (hips orvef
kls, (hall tontraiy 10 this tft, order or navigate the fame into any
455
R. D.
port, haibor, creek or river of the f.iid State of Rhode*lfland .W
orifah.rJ " I ,'' -' rt,i " '° rleit dollars ; and be
£ ' e to,mpnl„„m,„, s not exceeding months.
L„ Kr ; I f A '! die "aßcd, Tnat thc forfeitures accruing
by of h, S ast, (lull l, c recovered in ,he.m ? nner provide,!
tkf Mlfl' fl " f e"ure! ol a similar nature in the Ast to regulate
and v,(rf' 1 ,m P ofcd b on the tonnage of fliips
fhelt; i'c" 4 °" B°o ds t wares and mVrcoandilV, impL-d info
r te V a,ui , lh<lll r bc d ' l ' pofi:d ofinth = manner provi
dedl in the cafe of penalties, fines and forfeitures, in (he said Ast •
And every collector, naval officer, and furvryor, rr other person'
specially appointed byeithcr of them, or aidingand affi/Win the*
andTr f 0 t ' h ; SA u ,fl, !, llhaVe the lik ' P°™ »nd aXri^
ndbeenftled to the indemnification and mode of defence, ex
prefftd or given m the laid Ast to rrgnlaCctheeollcftion of duties
Sec 3. And to the end that the said state of Rhode-Ifiand and
tovidence Plantations, may contribute to thc fupplics ra fed fo
difch.rg.Dg the engagements of the Unite i Stairs entered into ore'
L o r!/V!r„ 7v d^. 0f arCh ' ' 7 ®9' Bt i'JxrtheremacdhthLu
thcr,tyafor(fa,d t the Pref.dent of .hcX'm.ed Su.es be an'l
of Rhode tn aUt J'° r Tp and / e< 3 ULfed <° demand of the said fta.e
of Rhode-Mand and Providence Plantations. dollars
be paid into the Treasury of the United States, „ n or before t£
. ncxt ! which being paid, fluil beciedited tn
the .aid state m account with the United States.
•t c - A * d i c tnafltd, That this Ast fhail continue
in force until a Convention of the state of Rhodc-Iflajid and P,o
vidence Plantations, flull aflenttoand ratify the Conftkution ' J
r4er ,Ce,hCrtof, ° ,ht ° fth < 1 'ed State and no
BQSTON, M*j, 8.
O ! blest Columbia t eveiy tribute raise ;
E'tft the fculptur'd Maible to his piaife—
Ihv youth at equalpraije may boldly aim,
And catch at FRANKLIN „ tomb worth's hallow'd fla.T, :
OM PHILADELPHIA— APRIL 27,
YOU will have heard of the death of our ve-
I I, !i ri - re " d yoU r " dl P art ' c ulars, as
I have heard of his will, which I think are au-
PhuldVlil^ UC t° T T°r Ch f ° r - Soni£ !ors >
Philadelphia, he has left to Mr. Bach e*, for
Hifri! if- o 3ndr ° nie ' a ss manner.
Hb library chiefly to Templ. Fr , vKLiNf, with
s manuscripts and the copy-right to his Life
the farm in Jcrfy, va l ue 30001.—a tracfl of
land, in C:org,a, next to Gen. Waynes, 3000
acies, valuable—-and from jool. to 6001. fterling
of monies at Paris To Mr. Bkk,amin- Fr an k-
Printing-Marerials, & c . valued
at 20601. To his fonJ, fool, to 6001. of thefame
m°ni«, and fonie land in Nova-Scotia, because
in the jui ifdi<fhon of the country he chose ti>
live under*
,nrlr,i c t? P hiladel P h >"> at
mtereft : The income to promote a Socitty of
Arts and Manufactures, for 1 5 years, then to be
applied to the conveyance of water to the citv
which he conceives will then want it, from its
increased size.
To the town of Boflort, ioool.
ToPrefident WASHINGTON, a Cane, with
the Figure of Liberty, merely to pay him a very
nandlome compliment, of leaving Liberty in
charge to him. ' 3
Mr. and Mrs. Bache, the residuary Legatees
to have the income for life, of the remainder of
his fortune, to be divided equally ainongft their
children at their death.
To Judge Hopkinson, his Philosophical Ap
paratus, See. r
His Life to i HI, he has sent to Mr. V—He
has gone no further-though he has left many
Icattei ed t material9. It being observed to a relati
on of the Docfior that it was a great loss to the
world, he observed not so great, as that of the
former period would have been. That contains
his thoughts from which mankind may draw ad
vantage —The latter his actions which the worldL
knews and others may record.
He preserved his intellects, clear and intelli
gent as ever, until a few hours of his death He
a few days before his death, having his maps be
fore him, dictated a Letter to Mr. Jefferso.v
upon the boundaries of the United States, which
I underltand is as perfect as any thine he ever
wrote. b
NOTES*
I Gentleman who married the Doctor's dauehte*
t His Grand lon and Secretary.
f Another Grandson.
5 The Governor of New-Jersey previous to the late war.
BURLINGTON, May u.
•nu 6 fncn . ( j. 3 _°f Science, and the liberal arte,
will be gratified in hearing that we were favored
on SundTay last with : visit from the ingenious Mr.
Fitch, accompanied oy several gentlemen of taste
and knowledge in mechanics, in a Steam-Boat,
conftruifted on an improved plan : From thef«
gentlemen we learn, that they came from Phila
delphia in three hours and a quarter, with a head
wind, the tide in their favor—on their return by
accurate observations, they proceeded down the
river, at the rate of upwards of seven miles an
hour.
Extrafl of a letter from Coopers Town, on Lake Ot
fego, to a gentleman in this city, dated April 8
" We are working away among the sugar here,
and have already colletfed 12 hogflieads.the worst
or which is equal, and some of itfuperior in taste
«°r a,' J and g ~!"' to an y 1 ever fi »w from the
Weft Indies.—The present season for manufac
turing this valuable article, is remarkably back
ward, fothat we are now only beginning."
c , 7 !! f - Ma 1L Di lTcTncTjC Phtladt/phit leaves the Fern-
Stan, a! Aew-York, forty mnutes after Seven every Morning exult
Sunday. Dines at Srunfmick, and'reaches Trenton bejore d/ri *KOTES ON PENNSYLVANIA.
Penn< ? v lvanii-thatof buying and holding lands wells ;lo that when our wood W '»»»""■»<
and houses within this commonwealth, without Jc and ou,
Tfllinnniniini* their alleciunce to the country in I be Ikilfully pursued, tneie can
which thev were horm They can fell or be- finding it in many other places. At p.eient, th
queath the lands, receive the rents, andinfhort, of fh.ps .^'^"XcMie^l^e
have every territorial and pecuniary right, that and the coal 1111. j . t? QO d tleal of coa
o ii'irm-il horn Pennfvlvanian has; but no civil nient to navigation, occation a - ...
riirlus ' they profcfs to owe allegiance to ato be brought to the Philadelphia mai e.. 10
?*£, and relide in. .hi, gr„. »\«»d a „<. and WW «. t« ■ .rcluW
country where they of course have ci j that Pen nfylvania, and ihelnitedot - „
vil rights they'cannot claim them, nor ought n eral, are well faited to all maiiufactorie ,i.
lily so efiret y he n here : since no man can fe?ve are effected by fire, such as
<17 malters If they chafe, at any time after forges, glass-houses, breweries, d.ltilleues, teel
purchase, to come out to this country, andmake works, liniths (hops, pot-alh works, ugai ai.< o
ririjpnv or ifthevchufe to give their J therrefineries, &c. &c.
eft ate to -i child or'otlier peri'on, who will do so, : Ship building is a business In which the port o
ei-her of them may become citizens to all intents Philadelphia exceeds rnofl parts of the world
VnA nurVofc" Thi« indulgence to purchase is Mails, spars, timber and plank, not only irma ou.
Granted for three years from Januaryi 759. own Hate and .he other Hates on the Dei-ware
all lands bought by foreigners beforejan.i 792 may are constantly for lale in our market, but th
be held for on those terms. Whether a right mulberry >f the Chesapeake and the ecr gree
"o make pnrchnfes upon thole terms will be al- or live oak and red cedar of the Carol.,,as and
lowed to foreigners after that time is uncertain, Georgia, are so abundant!} iinpoitcd, that nir
and will entirely depend upon the opinionofour tenths of our veflels are built of them. No j ■
Letiflature, as to the fafety or utility of it. fels are better than tl.efe ; and in p.oof oi
Ufefol knowledge and science have been fa- Englilh writers of rank might be quoted, whe
• 1; p n- Q f attention here. We have an u- have published tor and agamit us. A hveoa tanc
niverfity three colleges, and four or five public cedar ihip of 200 tons, carpenter's mealurement
academfe's befidcs many private academies and can be fitted to take in a cargo sot £14 cui rencj
ffr frhoo'ls ill the city and several of the county per ton ; and there is not apoit in Europe 1.
towns of this state. Considerable grants of monies, which an oak ship can be equally well built am
rent charges and particularly of new lands, have fitted for £20 per ton 111 our money, or £1- llei
been mate by our Legislature, and very liberal ling. This fadmay appear doubtful orextraqi
private fubferiptions have been added at various dinary, but is certainly true ; and it is gi eaily 11
times Though our government and citizens favor of our ship carperUers and other tr.ulelinei
have "always been attentive to the important ob employed in fitting and building ships, as wed
led of ufeful and liberal knowledge, yet an en our merclians and fanners, wW line, efts a.<
r I ifi> ii-d for learning has been manifelt fomuch connected with 11a igjtion.
r die revolution. Rifine from a provincial The dillance of Philadelphia from the sea ha;
111 i-ulenendent fit nation, appears, and very been made übjtftlwi by some, and the doling
'° MralU to have expanded our ideas, and to of our river by the ice, which happens al moll e
„; v en an enhanced value to improvements every winter. Amsterdam, the greatest port 111
have given an enhanced 1 Europe, is inaccessible in the winter. But it is s
Am natural advantages of Pennsylvania. fact, that, notwithitanding tliefe objections, ou.
. p Ih iini t in numerable mill feats ought not to veflels make as many Welt-India voyages a
he. almol conveniently distributed as those of the two other principal (ea ports ol
bv Providence throughout the ltate, and afford the middle fta.es ; and though the nver „ froze,
by Provide IK® t S . of mi „. frQm lhrce tQ mne wecks almo |t eve ry winter,
the meahs of tyery e p yet there are occafioßa i openings, which g.vc
W °d ce and raw materials almolt at the farmers opportunities for fleets of merchantmen to gc
produce a fituatioil 0 f v his country, out and come in. The fine corn and prov, 10,,
•' hinds for farming, ami in the present country, which lies near I hiladclplu.i, enable!
wanting . ingenious mechan- the merchants to load their veflels 111 the winter,
% ' °pverv davand everv where invented, to and the market is regal... ly supplied with flow
ism is eve. y day an X h; k beef lunlb er, (laves, iron, and many othe.
of our principal articles of exportation. Little
ral va ""f n y^Jfl a P K P a r e among the most profi time is therefore 1011, and we ind that our trad,
n auctions of our rich midland and new increases. The crop of 1789, and other export!
table inoduct'ohsot h qbc jkil)l . fron , t , leharv eft of that year to thatof iJ 9 o, it i!
counties, i g V that supposed, will load 120,000 tons of ftipping. W<
h in e ltate the full lized and complete have a very extenhve back country s and manj
ve have tn tl e ltart water . m i)l a „d inachi- large bodies of new land,that mult lend their pro
movements o. wo, k and h into d uce to the Philadelphia marker,are fettling fait
nery, to flivei, 10 ea f , oF , 0 cuts to t ht The population of Pennsylvania, by the lafl
threads or y ' n r sheetings, towelling, accounts taken was 360,000 men, women and
pound, or any eonrfe, g , feut> as fomc havc since elaplcdj
iail cloth, oznab. i fe machinery is cal- it is supposed it will not fall much short of 400,00 c
yarns for em da S®: ' ■ d , P ini.ing when the present enumeration fhallbe completed.
culatedfortherov rP«P 4 ..ng, y Kuropc has paid o(Ffo nmch ol
of combed woo.iinto . machinery of her public debt, since the late general war, as
<0 the movement v at i r -mill for spinning this Uate, notwithltanding the past disorders and
Sir Richard Aikv lig . thfc clhnate o f t his difficulties of the United States, a. ifing from the
yarns of cotton, a fe [hat raw niacc , ial, weakness of our late general government, and
ltate is not fit lor wUh S „ ro fit in every (late the lhocks of an invasive wai-. She has paid ofl
yet cot ton can be lai J pennf lvav}a> an d an a funk a sum equal to her full fliare of the in
•" ° Ur 1* f'nm he "alt and Weft-Indies. tereft and a considerable part of the principal of
imported ho n the . I ., or< j inary capacity her state and federal debts. Yet flic lias laid nc
It is certain th . cll wol ks has e iiher excise or internal duty, but eight pence rurren
of ° n , r J O3 " I ,' , uuufual dejrree, the mechani- cy upon fpirituaus liquors, and haS several milli
ca led for th, »na« »3^ nd » o rthat Providence ons of land yft unfold. . .
cal powes of the■ leofthjs aud our sis. The inhabitants of Pennsylvania arepiincipallj
lias bcitowed \\ j portion of that talent, | the descendants of the English, Irish, and Ger
ter Rates an nn . ■ l iation rcql . ire . Our I mans, with some Scotch, Welch, Swedes, and r
which its natu:r p K^,N fiand unrivalled few Dutch. There are also many of the Irifli and
R IT r. NHOUSE a , u i t hose who know Germans, who emigrated when young or in the
in mechanical ph 7 ,| iiea ((J thcfe two m j dd i e time of life ; and there are a number ol
our country aie ( considerable lilt of each of those two nations now in legislative, ex
£ rtoi namesi w aicJll mechanicians, in a ecutive and judicial Rations among us. It ha!
j>hilon>phic-l a p cver been the policy of our government, before
vni i'-iy of branc es. au(l conv enient arts and since the revolution, and the difpofuion ol
So many 01 unon the plenty flhd cheapness our people, to receive all sober emigrants with
and trade, depend upon the, er 7 of open arms _ and tog ; vc lhein immediately th free
°, •ie ; 1 Tin the revolution, our dependence exercift of their trades and occupations, and of
entirely upon wood fuel, of which, in their religion.
was al molt e J ,J. Aces we have it ill a great Such is the present situation of things in Pen
the molt 150.PI 50 .P J interiorfituations imnienfe nfylvania, which is more or less the fame in fa
abundance, and in all maiit.fatftures has veral other of the American States, viz. New
qua "r'nrdm to urn our attention to coal. Of York, Virginia, the Caroling and Georgia ;
occasioned 1 given us very but though not so in the reft, the principal dif
lh.s 'Jour middle and weltern coun- ference is, that they are so fully peopled, that
great of Wyoming, on the Sufque ' there are no new lands of any value unfold, and
- l ° r ' u "one bed of coal, of the Open-burning farming lands, that are improved, are of course
nnnnah, is _ m ost in ter re heat. At the head dearer than with us. In those States, however,
knl ' an fSchl , v l k in are some considerable bodies, agriculture, commerce, manufa&ures, the fifh
waters o -vreftfcrn branch of Sufquehanr.a eries, and navigation, afford comfortable fui^ilt
.At the he < . w j,ich stretches over ence and ample rewards of profit to the inclullri
is a mo vveftcrlv so as to be found in ous and well disposed, amldlt the blellings of ci-
Xs3Sii&l, M» All.. Vi, ,„d religious 1ib.,,,.
456
Before thii piper is Concluded, it ni?y be tife
ful to recapitulate the various productions and
c-cports of the United States, which are the sure
foundations of a grand scene of agriculture—the
refourccs for an extenlive trade—and the mate
rials for a great variety of ufeful aud elegant
,nanufac»ures. From our new country we have
n variety 01 ikins and furs, and ginseng ; in the
fettled 'parts of the States, rice, indigo, cotton,
(ilk, tobacco, flaxleed, wheat, rye, barley, oats,
spelts, Indian corn, hemp, (lax, wool, iron, lead,
copper, coal, freeftotie, Knieitone, marble, fjl.
t.hur, filtpetre, a great variety of ship timber,
(hip planks, inafts, spars, tar, pitch and turpen
tine, pork, beef, cyder, fith oil, spermaceti,
whalebone, dried fifh, pickled ti(fr, hides, lea
ther, black cattle, (heep, cheete, butter, tallow,
hops, mullard feed, (laves, heading, fliingles,
boards, plank, scantling, square timber, black
walnut, wild cherry and curled maple for cabi
net wares, potafli, p'earl aftes, potters clay, brick
clay, &c. &c. with apples, and all the other
principal fruits, and potatoes, and all the other
principal Vegetables. During the late war con
fideraWe quantities of sea fait were marrfaduied
on our coast, as far north as New-Jersey j and
1 this article will no doubt one day become an ob
ject of attention. It may be fafely affirmed,
that no Euiopcctti uuttOH 'whQtJ'ocvei' unites in its
dominions, even including their distant colctiieSj
such a variety of important and capital produc
tions ; nor can there be anV doubt in the mind
of a candid and serious observer, that such a
country must rife, with common prudence, in
agriculture, manufactures and commerce, af
fording to every induttrions and virtuous citizen
nr:d emigrant the certain means of comfortable
subsistence, and the faireft profpetft of eftablilh
ing a family in life.
New-York City Lottery.
SCHEMF. of ,1 LOTTERY, for tlic purpose of raifuig Stun Thm
find five Hundred I'rm.Js, agrcable to on ACT of the legUbr
:ur;- of the Slate ot Ncw-Yoik, palLd St!i February. 1750.
S C
1 PRI?-F. of
1J
3°
.5°
11Q
180
795 0
iCS(S4 BtaS, I at 40s. «»cb, £-50000
Subject to a deduction of Fijtitn per Cert.
THEoTijcft of tins LOTTERY being to raise apart of the sum
advanced by the corporation for repairing and enlarging the CI
TY HALL, for the accommodation of CONGRESS, which dors
i"o much honor to the Architect. as well as crcdit to the city. The
managers picfuvn'e that ihcir fellow Citizens will cheerh.'\y cOß
cur in pi oinoting the sale of Tickets, especially as the success of
this Lottery will relieve them from a tax, which mull othc wife
be laid to rcimbtufathe corporation.
The above SCHEME is calcnlatcd in a manner very bencficial
to adventurers,there «> >t lieing two blanks to a prize.
The Lottery is intended to commence drawing on the First
Monday in August neXt, or fooftcr if filled, of which timel)
11 tice will be given. A lili of the fortunate numbers will be pub
liHied at the expiration ot the drawing.
Tickets nre to be fold by the fubferibers, who arc appointed
Managers by the Corporation.
Isaac Stoutenbu rch,
Peter T. CurtEnius,
New-York, 6th 1790.
By Order of the Honorable Richard Morris, F.fq. CfoeJ J ijlite cj {he
Stale of New-York.
XTOTICE is hereby given to Lewis M'Donald, of Connc&icut,
i\ an absent debtor, that upon application and due proof made
to the ffcvd chief jnfticc by a creditor of the said Lewis M'Donalo,
pursuant to an.afct of the Leginature of the Ca:d State, entitled,
44 An ast for relief apainft abfcondmg and absent debtors." paf
fk d the 4th April, J786 ; he, the said chics justice, has directed
all the laid Lewis M'Donalds cftate, tyithin this state, 10 bcfeiz
ed, and thatunlef* he shall discharge his debts within twelve
months after the publication of this notice, the fame will be fold
for Ihe payment of his creditors. Dated the 3d May, 179°*
New-York, May 7, 1790. (lw.ay.)
NOTICE is hereby g ven to all the creditors of Phi lip
Denman, now confined in the common gaol ot Newark,
in the county of Essex, That the Honorable Court of Common
Ple3s, in and for said county, have appointed Tuesday the 251b
day of May next, for the creditorsof laid Philip Denman, tomctt
at the Court house in Newark, at nine o'clock of the day aforefaic,
and fhtw raufe to the judge of the said Court if any they have,
why an aflignment of the said insolvent debtors estate should rot
be made, and he discharged according to the ast ot the Legisla
ture of New-Jerftv in such cafe made and provided.
PHILIP DENMAN-
Ntwark i April 14, 1790.
CASH, and a generous price given for Conti
nental, New-Hdinpfhire, Maffachufeits, and Rhodc-lito' 0
securities, of every denomination, by
EBENEZER THAYER, jun. No. 59,
New-Yoik, April 17, 1790.
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59, to No. 187, Water-Street, nf" 1 '
Hy-Market,
WHERE they negociate all kind's of PUBLIC
SECURITIES—BILLj OF EXCHANGE. &c. asufun-
New-York, April 8, 1 / 9~- "tf.
Mofejs Rogers, and Co.
HAVE removed their STORE to the New Building, ew**
of Golden-Hill and Queen-Street, fronting Bulling S»P
titw-Veri. 5, 1790.
H E M E.
£.3000
1000
5 00
2 CO
100
5°
20
lO
4
Auraha*! HERRIMC,
John Pintard
ADVERTISEMENT
£ 306©
icoor
'S. 00
2oot>
3000
i s°°
?AC$
ifknj