PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY 7OHN FFNXn i,
JUHN f * N *o, No. ~, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 11, cf Vol. ll.j
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
THURSDAY, APRIL 22, 1790.
On the Report of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Sherman's motion for ajfutning a part of the
State debts, under cons.deration.
MR. Madison. It is not without much reluct
ance that I tioublethe committee with any
observations on a fubjedl which has been so long
under discussion, and may be thought to be en
tirely exhausted. I must refer for iny apology to
i the uncommon perseverance with which the ad
vocates for an assumption adhere to their obje<sl,
notwithstanding the difficulties which oppol'e it.
On the supposition that the measure in quellion
were ever so eligible, if it could be so modified
as to be acceptable to the general fcnfe of the go
vernment, and of its conllituents at large, every
member ought I thiuk to be (truck with the im
propriety of pressing a matter of such peculiar
importance and delicacy, by a bare majority.
The proposition now under debate is liable to
all the objections to the former one, as well as to
the many others that have been stated agaiult it.
friom the explanation g*iven by the gentleman
from Connecticut, it is evident that this proposi
tion may in the result assume the fliape of the
original one. It may therefore be fairly comba
ted by all tliofe arguments that were brought ci
ther against the original proposition, or against
the very objectionable manner in which the blanks
are proposed to be filled up.
I am not insensible that an afliimptjon H"fc4>e
state debts is under certain afpecfts, a measure hot
unworthy of a favorable attention. If it had nqt
leall plausible recommendations, 1 do rtot
think it could have obtained so refpetftabie a pa
tronage here : lam sure it would not have ori
ginated in the quarter which proposed it. But,
Sir, it is a quellion that must be coniidered and
reconsidered in all its various points of view, and
fljtrmore'u'ius already been inveitigacccl, the
more objections have multiplied, and the more
solid they have appeared. The arguments used
in favor of the measure have been supposed
weighty,but,Sir, I consider them as unsupported.
It has been contended that the state debts are in
their nature d#bts of the United States ; that they
were only from different offices, and have borne
a different denomination, but that in justice they
are the debts of the United States, #nd that the
individual creditors can of right claim payment
ofthe fame from the general government.
I deny the principle, Sir, and I think it is dis
proved by the arguments of the gentlemen them
selves. If the debts of the particular states be
nothing more than the debts of the United States
underanotherdenoinination,andifwe are bound
to provide for them precisely as for the debts of
the United Slates,let gentlemen consider whether
they are not bound to view them in this light
wherever they may be found. If they are debts
of the United States in the hands of individual
citizens, for the fame reason that the other debts
in private hands are debts of the United States,
must they not be debts of the United States also
when in the Treasuries ofthe different states ?
Will gentlemen fay that what are called the
state debts ought to be viewed in that light when
in the hands of citizens, and that this quality
foi fakes them the moment they are received into
® -^ ate Treasury. If they wish to preserve con
iiftency in their reasoning, they must fay, either
that the debts are diflimilar in the hands of pri
vate citizens, or that they are limilar in the hands
of the states.
rhe debts ofrhe particular states cannot in any
point of view be considered as actual debts of the
United States; and the United States arc not
b'lund by any part requisition, or any refoluttons
now existing to afiume them, till the accomus are
fettled and the balances afcerrained. We have
een told, fir, not only that the aflumption of
f ie Hate debts by the United States is a matter of
ught on the part of the states, and a matter of
obligation on the part of the United States, but
ikewife that iris equitable; nay, that it is a
matter of necefiity. -
It has been said that rhe United States are in-
v t with the resources of the particular states,
aii< t i u therefore they are bound to provide for
,r' fHS tlL *°f e states. I think I may fafely
4\ r. 1 'vm u s t ' l ' s queftiou on a qiieftiou of
L ' ' lct ''er the states most urgent in this bu-
Kr e r^ tJIe d from providing for their
y t»;c eftabjiflmien? of the preient confti
WEDNESDAY, MAT i 9, 1790,
tution ? If gentlemen aflbrt that to be the cafe,
I think it is incumbent upon them then to prove
either that the resources which they have eiven,
up would exceed their quota of the federal Tequi
htions or that the use of these resources by the
general government will throw a difproportioned
burthen upon that particular part of thecommu
mty. Let us consider, fir, what is the ratio in
which the states, in their individual capacity,
ought to bear the debts of vie United States, and
what is the ratio in which' :hey will contribute
under the taxes that it is proposed to levy. The
only evidence by which we can guide ourselves
111 this enquiry is a ftatenient from the several
custom houses. I believe indeed, that such a
ftatenient may not be concluftve. I think it is
imperfect ; at the fame time it is the best guide
in our rcach, and probably it will be fuflicient to
illuitrate the present argument—The state of
New-Hampshire, accordingto this statement, will
contribute about one hundredth part of what
will be contributed by the whole. Her ratio of
contribution according to her representation
would be nearly about one twentieth. Here then,
in'fasTt, isafavingof four fifrhs to that state. The
state may then take this saving and apply it to
the purpose of discharging her domestic debt ;
flie is relieved in that proportion, aind therefore
in that proportion she is more able to provide for
her state debt under the new cjnftitution than
under the old one.
i lie state of Connedlicut will contribute about
one thirty-eighth ; her proper quota would be a-
one thirteenth. Here then is a favino- of
two-thirds to the state of Connecticut ; ami in
that proportion is her fuuation better under the
new Conllitution than the oil. Taking theftates
eastward of New-York altogether, that the gen
tlenxen rendered incapable of bearing the
burthen oftheltate debts, l.y the adoption of the
new conftirution ; I fay, take the whole together,
and they will contribute 'bout a sixth only ;
whereas they \vo;?!d b;<\ iad to contribute,
a foui th, ii thisconflitutioi. idnotbeeueftablilh
ed,and they had paid their part of the debt of the
United States In my apprehension, then, fir,
as the payment of the state debts cannot beclaiin
ed as a matter ofright, neither can such payment
be called for 011 die principles of equity, or
what is molt of all urged, ncceflity. But we are
told that policy is alio in favor of the measure.
A gentleman from Mafl'achufetts has said, that
the people of Maflachufetts never would submit
to a rejection of the measure; that it will create
a Ipirit of opposition to the government ; in
short, that it will endanger the union itfelf. I
confefi that thefearc consequences that would be
dreadful to ine, if I could suppose they would
really take place, and that evils of greater mag
nitude wouht not ensue from an adoption of the
measure. It is my opinion, fir, that if the refu
fal to alluine the state debts would produce dan
gerous consequences to the union, from the dis
contents that it is apprehended will grow out of
the measure, much more have we to Fear from an
afl'umption, particularly if hazarded by a small
majority. Sir, it we (ould ascertain the opini
ons of our constituents, individually, I believe we
rtiould find fourfifths of the citizens of the United
States againftthe afl'umption ; I believe we should
find more ; I believe I speak within bounds when
1 fay, that those who would be for an afl'umption
would not amount to one-fifth; this is indeed
probable conjecture only. But on the other hand
let meafk, what evidence have we that there will
be any great disappointment or difcontenlsfrom
a non-afl'umption > The Legislature of the state
of New-Hampshire have lately been in felfion ;
have they asked for this afl'umption ? No; on the
contrary, tho* they have not inftruifted their de
legates to vote against it, it appears that it was
thought of, and that the bulk of the members
disapproved of it. The Legislature of Maflachu
fetts hive been in session; they were apprized
that this matter was under consideration, and yet
there has been no declaration from them, as far
as 1 know, that can induce us to believe they
wish for it; on the contrary, it would appear
from the measures they have taken to provide
for the paymentof theirftate debt, that they had
proceeded on a supposition that an aflumption
would not take place. With refpetfi to several
other states, their Legislatures have also been in
none of them, except South-Cafolina,
have made any declaration on the fubjed:. If
we are to disregard that species of evidence, a"nd
to look back to the expeiftations of the people, I
do not think that there is afingle indication that
457
, this measure was ever thought of by our condim
ents. Sir, I may fafely fay, it was never expected
by the generality of them.
It has been said, too, that policy recommends
the measure. It has been repeated that if the as
sumption does not take place, no part of the re
venues drawn from the union at large will return
to the distant parts of it. Sir, I thought this ar
gument had been set aside fouitiine lince The
very reverie will happen. The Hate debts have
begun already to travel towards the central parts
ot the union, and to such an amount as to make
it probable, that it they are provided for by us
nearly the whole will follow. Should this be
the cafe, I believe such disadvantages will ensue
as will prove the measure very impolitic. Ia
proportion as the whole money contributed in
the way of taxes shall center near the government
or in a particular part of the union, yon increase
the evil ofdifcordant interests and local jealousies
which is already too much felt. Bur, perhaps
tnis is not the worst consequence to be apprehen
-1 concieve that a very great part of the
proper debt of the United States will q;o into the
hands of foreigners, and that wethalfbe heavily
burdened in paying an interest to them which
cannot be expected to remain in the country ; and
in proportion as you increase thedebtof the uni
ted States you will increase this evil.
l am of opinion alf6 that the measure is not
politic, because, if the public debt is a public e
vil, an adainption of the state debts will enor
mously increase, and perhaps, perpetuate i»- It
is my idea, Sir, that the United States and the
ieveral ltates could discharge a debt of eighty
millions, with greater ease and in less time ?lian
the United States alone could do it. I found
my opinion on this consideration, that after the
United States/hall have resorted to every means
oi taxation within their power, there will still re
main resources from which monies mayberaifed
by the ltates Nay I will go farther, and illustrate
the remark by adding, that after a state shall
l ts P ower of taxation to every ob
ject falling under general laws, there would still
remain resources from which further taxes mia-hc
be drawn within subdivisions of it, by the subor
dinate authorities of the state. But lir, when we
consider, that in foine parts of the union there is
an unconquerable aversion to direcltaxes, at least
it laid by the general government; that in other
parts an equal aversion to excises prevails ; how
will the United States, so circumscribed as to the
held of taxation, be able to draw forth such re-
It has been aderted that it would be politic to
afluine the state debts, because it would add
itrength to t;he national government. There is
no man more anxious for the success of the go
vernment than lam, and no one who will join more
heartily in curing its defects ; but I wifli tliefe de
ters to be remedied by additional constitutional
poweis, i t they should be found neceflary This
mJdy y P '° l)er ' Cffed:aa] > and Permanent re-
Several gentlemen, Sir, have gone into another
held of argument in favor of this measure. It
has been said, that theconftitution itfelf requires
the aflumption. One of u.y colleagues has alked
a very proper quell, on,—lf as we have been told
the aflumption originated in the convention why
were not words inferred that would have incor
porated and made the state debts part of the debts
of the United States? Sir, if there was a majority
who disapproved of the measure, certainly ~0 ar
gument can be drawn from this source • if there
was a majority who approved of it, but thought
it inexpedient to make it a part of the constituti
on, they mull have been reitrained by a fear thac
it might produce diffentions and render the fuc
cess ot their plan doubtful. Ido recoiled: that
fiich a measure was proposed, and, if my memory
does not deceive me, the very gentleman who
now appeals to the constitution in support of his
argument, disrelished the measure at that time
and alfigned for a reason, that it would adminis
ter relief perhaps exadlly in proportion as the
ltates had been deficient in making exertions It
has been also remarked that the constitution,
having been established for obtaining perfect jus
tice, it cannot be carried into effect unless full
justice is done on this fubjedl, orin other words,
unless the state debts are assumed. Sir, if we are
to take these words in their full extent, we must
not stop merely with securing justice to the cre
ditors of the government, we Ihould also endea
vour to secure justice to every private creditor
Hi(so
[Whole No. irj.]'whatever. The gentleman fays, that, by the con
ilitution, all debts that existed againftthe United
States at the time of the adoption of the conlti
tution are to be as valid now as they were before
its adoption.
What was the situation of the state debts before
the adoption of the constitution ? Was it under
ltood that they were a part of the debt of the
United States, any further than there might be
found a balance on a final fentlement. Was it
ever supposed that they were to be thrown into
one common inafs, and that the states should be
called on colle<stively to provide for them ? What
would have been thought of such a proposition ?
Would it have been confideredas confident with
equity? Would it have been tho't constitutional ?
1 am persuaded if such a proposition had been
made in the old Congress it never would have
found a second ; and for this reason, that the
debts of the particular states were never con
sidered as the debts of the United States. In
whatever light we view the question, it appears
to me that the arguments urged in support of it,
are themselves unfupportable.
Much has been said of the situation of parti
cular states in cafe these debts should not be as
sumed. Much, indeed, has been said of the dif
trefles and exertions of Maflachufetts ; but if we
are to be governed by enquiries of this fort we
must extend thein to every part of the Union,
and we shall then find that an afl'umption will
give a& much diflatisfadtion and work as muchin
jufticetoamajoiityof the states as a non-ai!ump
tion may disappoint the citizens of Maflachu
fetts. Ido not wish to go into local
but the present fubjedt seems in its nature to make
them in some degree unavoidable. The con
duct of gentlemen on the other fide, at least
renders the talk on this indispensable. What
would be the operation of the measure with re
fpe&to Virginia ? It will not be denied that Vir
ginia facrificed as much during the war, in one
shape or another, and contributed as much to the
common defence of the states as any among them,
certainly as much as Maflachufetts. These are
facts that can in time be proved. Since the peacc,
that state has made great exertions to comply
with the requisitions of Congress : I might fay,
Sir, that (he wasalmoft unequalled in her exerti
ons. Her specie payments into the federal trea
lury since the peace exceed 600,000 dollars, where
as those of Maflachufetts are only bet wee 2 and
300,000 dollars. In indents Maflachufetts has in
deed paid molt, but by no means in such propor
tion as to balance the difference in the specie
payments. The exertions of Virginiato discharge
the debt ihe involved herfelf in by the war, have
also been very great ; she is not behind any of the
states (he is before molt of them ; there can be
no doubt but that she has certainly discharged
more of her debts than,Maflachufetts, and as lit
tle doubt in the opinion of the bed informed, that
whenever a final settlement shall take place chat
state will be found a creditor to the United States.
If, during the war, she has made as great exer
tions, and has fuffered as much as any of the
states ; if she has since the peace paid her full
proportion of the supplies to the federal treasury,
at the fame time exerting herfelf to the utmost
to discharge her state debt, and if finally she will
probably be found to be in advance to the union,
and would therefore if justice could at once be
done, be now entitled to a reimbursement—what
must be said by the citizens of that State, if in
stead of a reimbursement, they are called upon to
make further advances. Sir, I may add here,
that their contributions to the federal treasury,
under the proposed system of revenue will ex
ceed the ratio by which they would contribute,
by taxes laid in proportion to their representa
tion. Ido not wish to extend this investigation
any farther than has been already done ; but
were I to do it, the evidence would be more
ftrikine, that the payments from those parts of
the union that would receive least benefit from
the afl'umption, would be greater than from those
that would receive the immediate benefit of it.
One of my colleagues seems to be of opinion
fhat the measure will be favorable to the interest
of Virginia ; but he seems to me to have ground
ed his opinion on the erroneous supposition, that
the proposed plan will embrace the whole of the
debt as they existed at the close of the war, or
that the state of Virginia will contribute less, on
the plan of deriving revenue from confuinption,
than {he would if derived according to the consti
tutional ratio. I believe, on the contrary, that if
the afl'umption should take place as 01 iginally pro
posed, that there would be a claim 011 Virginia
forfivemilions, whereas ifthereisno aflumption,
her citizens will have to provide for about three
millions only ; and thus, instead of bearing her
proper burden, which is about one seventh, she
would have to bear a burden in the ratio' of one
fifth. He seems to think that his own particular
diftTift would be benefited by this measure ; but
if he be right in his other opinion,that that part of
the state will confumemore than the other parts,
he will find, fir, that instead of relieving his con
stituents, compared with the reft of the state,
that he would still more -moment their bur
thens ; so that it would como to this at last, that
tlie state would have to pay five millions, infi.ea<
of three—and that the particular part ot the
state he represents, instead of paying their P'°"
portion of three millions, would have to pay
more than their proportion ot five. 1 admit,
however, that he isthe most proper judge on that
fubiect. But the citizens of Virginia would not
only be called upon when already in advance, and
to an amount beyond their proper ratio, but in a
mode that is peculiarly obnoxious to the'"— l
mean that of cxcife. Sir, the people ot that itate
are asaverfe to excises asthofeof any other state
can be to direct taxes, and in my own judgment
with far morereafon, where the article excited is
not by some peculiarity free from the common
objections. Excises are unequal with respect to
different parts of the union : They are alio une
qual to various parts of the fame state. I .tis
mode of collection gives arbitary powers to the
collectors, and exposes our citizens to vexatious
fearches —It opens adoor to frauds ana perjuiies
that tend equally to vitiate the morals of the Peo
ple, and to defeat the public revenue. Besides
fir, excises are more expenlive in the collection
than other kinds of t. ixes. The collection ot the
excise in Great Britain costs 10 per cent. That
of her direct taxes is computed at 3 percent, on
ly. 1 will not positively fay that a similar dis
proportion in the expence of collecting would be
incurred in this country ; but in some parts ot it
I am sure that the expence of excises would be
greatest, and on some articles in view, would, it
the collection were made at aLI, exceed the reve
nue obtained from it.
Sir, there has been an argument of another
kindadvanced in support of the aflumption. Gen
tlemen have thought it a matter of consequence
that not only justice lhouhl be done, but that the
condition of the people should be equalized ; that
no invidious companions might be made between
the inhabitants of one state, and those or ano
ther, and that no oppressions or embarraflinents
lhould force the people to emigrate from one
state to another. It would be a comfortable re
flection, if every part of the union could be alii
milated in this instance ; but, fir, I think we have
110 authority to facrifice eflential confederations,
to obtain these advantages. Nor do I know that
we fhouldobtain them by aflumitig the (late dews.
Supposing that measure to be adopted, let us re
flect, wtiac would be thefituation of the different |
parts of the union. 1 do not, at this moment, .
confide'r the queftionas it respects justice, right, 1
or general policy, but in reference merely to the
particular consequence of equalizing the circum
stances of the people. Let us take a view com
paratively, of the people ot the United States.—
Maflachufetts owes a debt of several millions.
The public debt, when you come to analyze it,
at least where it is due to citizens and not to fo
reigners, is a debt from one part of the people to
the other. The government is the collector from
the pockets of the debtors to pay it into the hands
of the creditors. If, fir, the state debts should be
a (fumed, Maflachufetts will then get rid of her
embarrallinents ; but what would be the lituati
on of Virginia ? Besides her public debt, I be
lieve that her citizens owe, one to another, debts
to an amount, equal to the whole public debt of
Maflachufetts, perhaps 1 might fay to the amount
of both the public and private debts of that state.
111 addition to all this, the people of Virginia are
indebted to foreigners to a greater amount than
the whole debt of Maflachufetts. Sir, I firmly be
lieve that though Virginia is less opprefled with
public debt than Maflachufetts, yet when we take
a view of all the difficulties (he labors under, and
weigh them against those of Maflachufetts, it will
be found that Virginia ought to be relieved her
felf instead of being expected to relieve others.
But, supposing all objections of anothci nature to be laid aside,
I freely confcfs that after a more minuteexamimtion into the fub
jefh I am much inclined to doubt whether the aflumption can
poflibly be carried into execution. Difficulties are continually a
rifingiwhcn I survey this question, for which I can find no solu
tion, without departing from every principle by which we ought
to be guided. It never yet has been shewn in what manner a re
medy could be provided for a partial fubfeription. Supoofe the
state creditors were part of them to fubferibe and part torefufe.
Suppose those of one state fubferibe, and those of another should
not. Again, Sir, by what method would you discriminate the
debts that come under the definition, from those that will be ex
cluded by it p Where will you invest this important discretionary
power. I really think th;it great viifficulties will be found betore
this can be effe£tcd. There is another objettion, to which I have
; never heard a fatisfaftory answer, although it has been repeatedly
| urged bv a member from Georgia. There are debts cxifting in
I some of the states that do not bear interest:, that have got into cir
! culation without any title to it, and have been received by the
present holders without any other expc&ation than that in some
reasonable time the principal would be paid. Would it, fir, be
proper 01 iteceffary toconfider these as debts ot the union, bearing
interest, or to provide for the immediate funding of th< m ? Bu:
there is a in my opinion, far more difficult, I mean the pa
per money iflfued to redeem the state debts. The state of North-
Carolina has taken up its certificates with these paper bills. They
are not proposed to be included in the aflumption. They are
clearly excluded by the present motion, yet they are as much a
state debt to be funk by taxes as certificates, and the taxes may as
much interfere with those of other states. Some of the stats, fir,
have not only a (Turned the debts recommended by Congress for
making up the depreciation to the army, but they have gone fur
ther and have made up the depreciation, where it was not recom
mended. Other states have not done this. The debts existing in
some states I take it for granted comprehend these deprecia ion
notes. Would it not be unjust to call on those "states that have not
made this provision for their army that other Hates have done,
would it not be hard to call upon those officers and soldiers who
have not received this additional compensation, to pay it to those
of othei il«tes, who have? J would oot here be under (loci lo ceri
458
fare the ftstcs that made tins compensation, I rather ct>rrtrvic:!i
them for it. It is a proof of their magnanimity and justice t | U(
does them hftnor, but at the fame time this dues not alter the n a ,
tine of thcobjeftion. In some ftatcs, in order to reward the ar<
mv, they have done it by several aids that do not conftitme an,,
part of the state debts. In foine of the flues there are debts ftifi
unliquidated. If you declare that, when liquidated, they (hall
be atfumed, you afford a temptation that has been hitherto rauti.
onQv avoided, that of making the Hates less exatt in the fettle*
men't of their accounts. I do not find that any gentleman lias pro
pofi d, on the contrary most of them seem t > have rcjefted the idea
of making provision at this feflion tor fulfilling the engagements
in cate we ent'r into an aifumption. I think it would be a
powerful and unanfweiable objection against affnming the state
debts at this lime, that we do not fee or are not prepared to dc
cide on the means of provid ing for them. There is not a more
important and fundamental pnnciple in leaiflition, than that the
ways and means ought always to i'«ce the public enga-cmcm*;
that our appropriations fhoold go hand in hand with our prom -
fes. To lay that the United States Should be aufwerahle for twen
ty-five millions of dollars without knowing whether the ways
and means can be provided, and without knowing whether tho'i'e
who arc to succeed iy> will think with us on the fubj ifl, would be
ralh and unjuftifiablc. Sir, in my opinion, it would be hazard
ing the public faith in a manner contrary to every idea of pru
dence. It is very true, fir, that a v :riety ot funds have been pro
posed, yet they are nothing more than mere fuggeftiom, and the/
' I think they are as good as could be expefled in the time, I really
believe that some of them, at least, if they can be carried into exe
cution at all, will disappoint the calculations on which thev are
founded. , . .
I cannot finifh my obfcrvations on tnis lubjctt.fir, without a.-<.
verting to one particular, which I would with gentlemen to attend
to, not so much for our fakes as their own. I would recommend
to them no longer to alTume a pre-eminence over us in the nation
ality of their^mouves; and that they would forbear those freqtrnt
affeitioos, that if the llate debts are not provided for, the fed-rt
debts shall also go unprovided for ; nay, that it the state debts a-?
notaffumed, the Union will be endangered. Sir, lam perfuadei
that if th-gentlemen knew the motives which govern ut, they
would blulh at such intemperate as well as inconliftent langm-..
I am sure that if they knew the emoti-nj with which it is
they would at least lee the inutility of it. I hope, Sit, that who
ever may be thedecifion on this qneftionof aflumptiou.tha; put:-,
otifin and every other noble and generous motive will lead ei;
minority to acquiefee in mealurcs which will tend to cftaM.ih
public credit by a due provision for the public engagements.
Tile committee then role.
NOTICES OF DR. FRJNKL IN.
TTE long lived retired, and as it appeared, for
iTitrotten by the world, because from his fltua
jjon, incapable of being noticed by it—his death
removed this barrier—and it is aitonifliing how
the whole city was inove.l—His funeral was as
crowded as at the entiy of Gen. Wafliingtonw
all seemed as if they had loft a parent, or a friend,
and such indeed he was to more than the
knew. The different Institutions, which con
ceived themselves benefited by him, without
previous concert, appeared to honour his remains.
It appeared that alnioftevery institution was re
pvefented and held him as Founder or Benefac
tor. They call Jots for placcs —The Philosophi
cal Society, got the fiift—The Univerlity, 1 be
lieve, the next—The Printers 3d —the two for
mer yielding to the latter, as hei had beer, a
['.-inter. The Pbilofopliit ai Sociflrv mr'
have appointed Mr. Rittenhoufe, aiid Dr. Smith,
to form an eulogium 011 his memory. Ihe itaie
officers, &c. go in mourning. We were jealous
lelt strangers 'hould b: the firft to honor a clia
racfter to which we were so much indebted—
j Such honors reflect as much light upon those who
bestow, as those who are thus noticed with elteein
and veneration. His general character is too
well known to need any thing to be said—he
was a practical Philofophcr, wliofe doc'trines,
theories, and practice, all had one ultimate
grand view—making mankind better, happier,
and more independent. Every day was marked
yvith some ufeful proje<sl, and the perdidi Diem, I
believe could not have been repeated by him at
any period of his long life—His life was mo.:
governed by reason, than that of any person we
have heard of—and he was an example to others
of what he wiflied them to be. His fortune woJ
the effect of Industry and Savingnefs ; not of A
varice or desire of Wealth, but Ironi a strong
principle of practical economy, as the necellary
part of a good citizen, and a neceflary principle
to make a State thrive.
I remember a circumstance happened one C*®"
ning, when I was at his house—a frefh taper
brought wrapped in paper, the child attempted
to throw the paper 111 the fire, the Doctor fave<»
it, made her cut it into stripes, and put itonthe
mantle piece, observing that it would j
ready to light the taper without wafting ufcW»
paper, which ftie had often done, and made *
leilon of economy the child will never forjffi
nor lhall I. It was his liappy talent to
ftruction frefm every thing. He died, as Wj*
ved, doing good. Beloved wliilft alive, he •'
be canonized now dead, in the hearts of .
who cherilh the memory of ihe benefefS ol ?
mankipd. Some men leave fortunes to J>'°
uses, as a species of compensation for their u®
charitableness whilst living. Few,like N r e .
lin made ufefulnefs, and promoting pup!' ,c *
licity, the great obje<fl of their lives—Num
have, as public men, endeavoured to proffl
publick good ; few, like the Doctor have, '
were, entered into the family, and bype rte
the parts, operated the good of the whole.
sentiments were honoured whilst living, n0
is dead, they will become more honored »
fought after, and I hope be more general'PC
ted. He was buried near hi 9 wife» » H
Church burying-ground, by his defirc-
Hij.l, Mr. Duffield, Judge JaY; and J »
Ho PKiKiON, arp his Executors.LONDON, MARCH 10.
THE Portuguese are faidto have discovered some new minssof
silver, iron, and coal, near St. Übes.
The Grand Signior was to be at Adrinople towards the be
ginning of March,from thence he proceeds on to theGrandArmy.
Lord Stanhope's Ctmrch Reformation Bill, is expefled to
come on in the course of next week. The noble earl would have
introduced this bill earlier 111 the session, but that he was so bufi y
employed in preparing a vessel to fail against Wind and Tide,
for which he has lately got a patent!
A Gentleman was asking a Member of Parliament the othei
day, when Mr. Sheridan proposed bringing forward his motion
UP u"/f"pp"f e he waits for the appearance of the expeQed Cornel
to enlighten the fubjea," replied the Member, for lad year he
totally obfeured it by calculations.' f , . n
The idea of banirtirmnt from Scotland has long been a fubjeS
of ridicule, efpeciallv among our southern neighbours But wh
the affcaion for one's native foil should be less in Scotland
elfewbere, is not eafv to be desisted. In a recent trial in the couri
of Judiciary, this prejudice was ablycombated bya equal-
K conspicuous for his love of literature as his knowledge of th,
laws. The maxim that one's own country is always the bed, >.<
founded in nature and rrafon ; and it is a matter of indifferenc,
whether it is Iceland or Scotland the South ot Enriand or the
South of France, on the banks of the Arno, or on the banks ot the
Titer Senegal. , , . .„ . , .
YET, where to find that haopieit spot below,
Who can direst when all pretend to know ?
The fhudd'ring tenant of the frigid zone
Boldly proclaims that happiest ipot his own,
Extols the treasures of his stormy seas,
And his long night of revelry and ease ;
The naked lavage, panting at the line,
Boads of his golden fandsand palmv wine,
Ba(Vs in the glare, or stems the tepid wave,
And thanks his gods for all the good they gave.
Nor lelsthe patriotVboaft where'er we roam,
His FIRST, BEST COUNTRY, EVER IS, AT HOME.
Goldsmith.
Extrafl of a Utter from Dr. Price, to the Duke of Rochefou
cault.
" Ilacknev, near London, Nov. 9, 1789.
" THE Address to the National AiTemhly, which is annex-
J. Ed to this, having; been proposed by Dr. Price, he hopes
that the Duke of Rochefoucault will not be displeased to learn,
that it was rec.cived with an ardor difficult to be described. by an
AflVmbly compofcd of the Eail of St a NHopE,of the Lord Mayor
• f London, of many Members of the Parliament oi England, and
of more than three hundred perfonsof dillin&ion, aflemblcd up
on the occasion of the anniversary of the English Revolution, in
order to celebrate that event. If the exprefliens of their admira
tion ; if the wilhes of prosperity, which they requeftthe Duke rf
Rochefoucault toprefent. (hould app-ar temerity on th-:r part,
they hope the National Assembly of France w II yet excufc it, as
the effect of an effufion of zeal, in the general ealife of public li
berty, thatno apprehensions ot inconvenience could restrain. Ine
Rcprefentattvcs of the French nation labour for the universe as
■well as for France, the -whole world is intereflhl in their fucccf
Cop y of a letter from the Earl of Stanhope, to the Duke of Rochefoucault
of the 6th November, 1789,
SIR,
IT is with grei->. fatisfaftion I have the honor of conveying to
you two unanimous resolutions of aSocietv eftablilhrd in England,
to celebrate the famous revolution of 1688.—Thcfe motions were
received with the mod marked approbation, and reiterated accla
mations. Shall I venture, on the part of the focictv, to requtft
you to present theft resolutions to the National Artcmbf, of Fiance ?
X !."4'' rme with the ,irr»tr{l rcfpefl and fuicereil
attachment, Sir, your's, &c. (Stgncd)
It was in consequence of those two letters, that the Duke of
Rocliefoucault communicated to the National AfTembly the ad
dress of the revolution Society. See. with pieafurc, bow this dis
tinguished Alember of the National AsT mbly asfweied tliefe two
spirited, liberal, and philosophical En<;lifhcitizcm
Paris, IVrdvcfdtiy, Dec. 5, 1789.
" IT truly belonged to the illustrious apostle of liberty, Dr.
Pa i c t, to propose a motion tend ins; to offer up to that liberty the
molt diftin?uiftied homage—that of national prejudicts. The ad
drefsol felicitation, which the Eai! of Stanhope has done the
Duke ofßochcfoucaultthe honor of transmitting tol-.jm. v.as re
ceived by the National AiTcmbli' with the liveliest applatife. The
Assembly perceived in it the dawn of that beautiful dav, when
two nations, which, in spile of tMkir political divisions, and the <Ji.
verfity of their governments, have always eftec-med cach other,
■will form a close ind intimate connefimn, founded on the fimi-
Jitude of their opinion!, and f.ipportcd by th-ir common cnthu.
fiafm for liberty.—The Affemblv has accordingly charged their
President to write to the Earl of Stanhope.
" The Duke of Rochefoi'.cault, happy to have been fclcfted for
this honorable comroiflion, h-is, with zeal,given an account of it to
the National Assembly, ard h.is made known to it thetitle, which
afocicty, whnfe object is so noble and patriotic, has to the eftcem
of the French nation
" He takes the liberty of requi (ling a copy of the Doflor's
sermons ; every thing that proceeds from his pen is precious.
Doctor Price furi ly fees, with fatisfaftion, the principles of their
common friend, Mr. Turcot, propagated for the happiness of
France, and of the human race.
" The Duke of Rochefoucault has the honor of presenting his
sincere compliments to Mr. Price."
The Xstimsl AflcmMv hiving Jefired that mention (hould be
made, in the letter of the Picfidcnt, to the revolution Society of
England, nf the desire of extinguishing that ancicnt jcaloufy,
which no longer hccomcs nationsfree and enlightened—Upon this
principle it is, that the Archbishop of Aix, President, has writ
ti 11 the following letter to the Earl of Stanhope, President of the
Revolution Society :
" IT is, indeed, my Lord, wot thy of a celebrated Society, and
of a people happy and tree, to theintylvcs in the progress
of public liberty and happineis.
" It is now fomc time since the French nation has felt the influ
ence of its progress in knowledge and in arts. Itdire&cd its Go
vernment by its opinions, long before its opinions influenced its
laws. It pursued, wuh ardour, ufeful truths ; and, shedding eve
ry day trefh lights upon all the parts of its adminillration, it fecm
ed impelled, by one universal motion, to those changes to which
it has been indebted for its conlillency and strength. A King,
whom we may truly call the brft of men, and firft of citizens, en
couraged by his virtues the hopes of the nation ; until an unani
mous concurrence of sentiment has at length eftablilhcd a perma
nent Constitution, founded upon the unalienable righis of men
ai d of citizens.
V It doubtless belongs to our age, in which reason Iceps pace
with liberty, toexiinguifh forever, national jealousy and hatred.
Let not wars, and the other mischievous errors ot government, be
any longer the effects of prejudices, which are the shame ot nati
ons; and may the two most enlightened people of the world teel
it their duty to shew, by their example, that the love ot their
country iscompatible with the fentimcnts of humanity !
'•The National Aficmbly has dilcovercd, in the address of the
Revolution \Soiirty, those principles of universal bencvolence,
March 11
STANHOPE."
which ought to unite, throughout every country of the world, the
real friends of the liberty and happinefsof nations. It has given
:he ftronpeft testimony of the derpeft and mod lively sense of it,
in a solemn resolution, which I am charged to communicate to
'OU."
LISBON, Dec. 30.
On the 16th in ft. the Queen, in taking a walk, perceived some
uniforms with cockades that were not known to her. Her Ma je
lly demanded of what nation they were : and being told tbey were
the crew of a French (hip deftimd for the coalt ot Guinea, (he gave
orders for the prohibition of French National cockades.
—* —
THE TABLET. No. CXV.
The main secret of being sublime, is to Jay great things in a fezu and
plain words."
WORDS, like dress. arc often used to adorn that, which,
without the aid of ornament, would be deemed of lit
le value. We are not more frequently deceived in the worth of
haraOers by decorations of attire, than we are in the importance
of sentiments by cmbellifhments of ftilc. To know the value of
i man or a book, we must strip them of their external glare, and
view them under that simplicity which shews nothing different
From what it really i*. An interesting thought will continue to
be such, horwever fimpl<- may be the expressions that convey it.
Many writers _irr at a fublinte stile, and fappofe they attain it,
by using a redundancy of epithets, and giving an harmonious ca
dence to their periods. Where this falfe notion prevails, people
will only study to make their rompofitions found well. Why
should they be at the pains of deep contemplations, when a flow
ing pompous turn of expreftions will be tnls.en as equivalent ior
fubjime thoughts. But they are in reality very different things.
No magnificence of wordscan give importance to a trivial thought;
nor can any simplicity ofexpreflion deprive a great idea of its in
trinsic excellence.
Shakespear is allowed to cxcel any other author in the force
of his descriptions. But it is well known that he was extremely
cnrelefsin his stile. We are compelled to admire hi rp, though he
wrote like one who did not feck admiration. His conceptions
were naturally bold and lossy, and though his language was often
coarse and vulgar, yet his works will liveTas long as men do. Let
everyone believe, that it is more necessary to study things than
words ; and that to think well is better than to speak smooth.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
MONDAY, MAY 17.
The committee to whom was re-committed the bill to regulate
the trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, having reported
the draft of a new bill, the fame was read the second time, and
referred to the committee of the whole house.
Mr. Huger presented a letter addrefled to the members of the
House from the State of S. Carolina, containing a representation
from the Commiflioncrs of the pilotage of harbors of S. Carolina.
This was read, and referred to the Sec retary of the Treasury.
The report of the Committee on the petition of Thomas Jen
kins, and Co. was read the second time, and the fame committee
was ordered to bring in a bill pursuant to the report.
The report of the joint committee on the difagrecment between
the two houses in the amendments proposed by the houfi* to the
" bill for adapting to the State of N. Carolina the a& therein
mentioned, and for amending said ast" was read. This report
proposes that the house (Viould rccede from those amendment?.
The house agreed to recede from the fir ft ;imendment, and the
dillrift Court for the ftatc of N. Carolina, is now to be held at
Newbern, only. The second amendment was, to provide for the
holding of thi- diftrift Court alternately at Exeterand Portfmout'n,
as in ihe Judiciary bill, it was moved to recede from this amend
ment. This was opposed by Mr. I'ofter and Mr. Gilman, and ad
vocated by Mr. Livermote.
The for receding being put, was loft ; and the house
voted to infifton thrir amendment.
The house then took intoconfideration the amendments propo
sed by the Senate to the bill for the encouiagement of learningand
agreed to the fame.
The report ot thejointcommittee,refpefting theterms forwhich
the President, Vice-PrefiJent, Senators,and Rcprefcntatives of the
United States, have been chofen,&c. and which has been agreed
to by the Senate, was taken into confidcration. The report was
read.
Mr. Seney observed, that this report related to a fubj :6l of very
great importance. It has not been made the order of the day—
He believed gentlemen had not fufficiently attended to it, to be
pacpared for such a difcuflion as its importance demands ; for his
own part he should wish for further time.
Mr. Gerry moved that it ftiould be referred to a committee of
the whole house. This was voted in the affirmative, and made
the order of the day for to-morrow.
The report of the committee on the arrears of pay due to certain
officers and soldiers of the Virginia and N. Carolina lines of the
late armv was read the second time. •
This report occasioned an interesting debate. Some amend
ments were made, and the report finally adopted, and returned
to the Senate for their concurrence. The report as amended is as
follows
Resolved, That the Prrfident of the United Stater be requefled to cause
to be forthwith tranjmiltea to the executives oj the slates of Virginia, N.
Carolina, and S. Carolina, a complete lift of the officers, non-commissioned
officers and privates of the lines of thofeflatis refpc&ively, who are enti
tled to receive arrears of pay duefor Jervicet in the army, in the years
1782 and 1783, annexing the particular sum that is due /T> each individual
with a rcquejl to the executives oj the said Jlates to make known to the
claimants, in the mojl ejfeflual manner, that the said arrears are ready
to be di[charged on proper application.
Resolved, That the President of tht United States be requejled to cause
the Secretary oj the Treasury to take the necejfars fieps for paying, with
in the said slates refpeflively, the money appropriated by Congress, on the
29M day oj Sept. 1789, for the difchar ging the arrears of pay due to
the troops of the lines of the faidjlates reflectively.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Tret fury, in cases where the pay
ment has not been made to the original claimant in per/on, 01 to his repre
sentative, be directed to take order for making the payment to the original
claimant, or tofuch per/on or persons only as Jkall produce a power of
attorney duly attefled by two JvJliccs of the Peace of the county in whuh
such ferfon or persons rejide, authorizing him or them to receive a certain
fpecifed sum.
A motion was made that the lafl paragraph (hould be referred
to a fele£t committee for the purpose of reporting a bill. This
was negatived.
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) moved for the Ayes and Noes on the Reso
lutions, but an adjournment being callcd for, precluded their be
ing called.
TUESDAY, MAY 18
Sundry petitions and memorials were read and referred.
The house then resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole, on
the report of the felett committee refpetting the terms for which
the Prcfident, Vice-Prefidcnt, Senators, and Representatives have
been refpe&ively chosen.
This report o'ccafioned a lrngthy debate, which lasted till the
time of adjournment. It was opposed by Mr. Williamfon, Mr.
Stone, Mr. Bland and Mr. Vining. Mr. Gerry proposed several
amendments, one of which only was adopted, viz. that " Sena
tors and Reprefeutatives" (hould be struck out, and, " Senate and
House of Representatives" inserted in lieu thereof. The report
was advocated by Mr. Benfon, Mr. Lawrance, Mr. Sedgwick, Mr.
Livermore, and Mr. Sherma*.
459
In the oppofiuon it wasfuid,thatthe Conftittltiott W?.Sexplicit irt
declaring that the members of thehoufe should be chosen every 2d
year, plainly implying that they were eletted for two years—that
it was a dangerous precedent for Congress tQ construe the conftitu*
tion ; that if the report is adopted, the State of North-Carolina
will not, in all probability, be reprefentcd in the next Congtels;
as the circumstances of that State do not admit of their airemblies
being conve ned more than once a year—th?t the frflion is com
monly in November, and if a new election fhouid then be order
ed, it will be unconstitutional, as it would be holding two elec
tions in one year, instead of their being biennial. Tnat the r;
port is riot true in fa6>—as North-Carolina was not reprefentcd in
Congress on the 4th March, 1789. It was further observed that
there is no ncceflity for the interfejence of Congress in the busi
ness, as every successive house must be the sole judge of the quali
fication of its members, and the next Congress will determine for
itfelf, let the present Congress pafswh;<t laws they please ; that thtl
report contained «. direst breach of the Constitution, as that ex*
prefsly declares the members (hall be chosen c\cry second year,
whercasthe State of North Carolina, in order to' be reprefentcd,
must hold two elections within one year. It was further (aid that
the Constitution does not explicitly fay any thing aoout a New
Congress; the report was an interference with the rights of clec- 1
ion, and as such would contravene the fentimcnts of the pcop!
In support of the resolution it was urged. th?.t from the con
trariety of opinions which appeared on the fubj?£l, it was abfo
lutcly neceflary that some regulations should be agreed upon, pre
vious to such questions as have now been stated being hrought be
fore Congress—agreeable to the observations now offered in ob
je6fion to the report, there never will be an entire c hange of the
representation—this induces a principle incompatible with thena
ture of a democralical body—it changes it into an aristocracy,
and gives it a perpetuity entirely unknown to any of the States
in the union—it prevents the formation of a new Congress, and a
rotation in the ele&ionsof the people; with rrfpe&toN. Caroi-na,
no physical or natural impofiibility has been pointed outj to fiicw
that that Hate cannotbe reprefentcd in the next Congrefs,and if the
ftatc should be remiss in making seasonable provision in this ! ,refpe£l;
the Constitution invests Congress with powers to do it.—lt was
further said, that if no determination was now made, it may hap
pen. that no new election for that state may take place, and there
fore tofecure its representation, the neccffity of the report is appa
rent, as it is not probable that members chosen for one Congress,
will by virtue of such choice be permitted to take a feat in the next
fucceed : ng Congress. It was said that the term fpecified refers to
Congress as a body, and not to tHe particular members, rhat as
the Constitution by a fair conftruflion contemplates a fucceflion
ofdift:n6t affemblics, it clearly follows that a difTolution must
precede a n w election of such aflemblies, which necessarily invol
ves a ccffation of the political exiftcnce of the members, &c.
Amotion in the midst of the debate, for the committee's ri
sing, was negatived—as was also a motion made by Mr. Wil
liam,on,to ftnkeout the word " Representatives."
The committee then ro.fe, and reported the resolution, with one
amendment only, as above.
The House immediately took the fame into confidcration when
the debate was renewed—but it was agreed to, without turther a
mendmcnt, and referred to a feled: committee, who were dire&-
ed to prepare a bill or bills agreeable thereto. Adjourned.
NEW-YORK, WEDNESDAY, MAY 19.
Since the 12th of March three persons have died
in Charlcllon of the Hydrophobia—a disorder
scarcely known in that state, a few years lince.
A correspondent observes that every public spi
rited attempt to difieminate ufeful knowledge, ill
every branch of science, and to extend beneficial
improvements in agriculture, mechanics, manu
factures is laudable to the highest degree.
On this principle extraordinary productions
should be duly noticcd—as they may suggest bints
of the greatell importance.
The recent publication of Dodlor Sriles, on the
fubjetft of railing (ilk, docs honor to him as a pat
riot—and the efforts of other gentlemen in this
line, mult meet the applause of every friend to
the manufactures of our country.
However divided as to the mode of cjfdirg the ohje .7—the members cf
the I'gijlaturc of the United States appear to be unit erf ally i.uprejfed a .
the importance of eflablifhing the, public credit. It may fairly be
prejumed that the union of the states is mojl firmly eflabliflicd —for you
cannot meet with a person who has attained to the years of common un
derflandirjg, who will not readily ackhowledge that on this union, our
political exiflenceisfufpended—the operation offo universal afentiment,
mufi be paramount to every impediment in the way of our public profpen
ty. Still there remains this one thing needful to be done—and wetrufl
in Heaven it will be soon aecomptifhed, in such way as will bring forth
the top flone of the glorious fabric we have reared with shouting.
" In forming and cementing the union ofthefeflates, a superior Agen
cy hath been vfible. Our reliance oughtflifl to be on that proteding Being
which hath neverforfaken us—that ne will cause our national charac
ter to be permanently ennobled, and the nniort of these states to
become the standard of freedom, faith and g«od government.
The perfeßion of our fiate governments will confifl iti their approxi
mating more and more towards the flandard exhibited in the national go
vernment. Of this the people appear to be fertjible, and are taking mea
sures accordingly, to effett this dcfirable objefl in the fullfl manneu The
eledions to both governments fhouldbe direded to charaHens unequivocal
ly attached to the union of all the parts of this great Empire, to the
whole—those who would ejtablifh the general government upon the depre
ciation, or ruin of the fate governments are equally enemies to both ; and
thole who attempt to sow the feeds of jealousy between them, are, without
all controversy, the greatefl enemies of the people of the United States.
Let the [late governments therefore be dear to the people, and their confli
tutional importance be conJlantl\ heldup to view, as epitomes of that great
model to the whole, from whence we can alone expedto deriveour charac
ter, and conference as a nation.
The public may be aflured that the President
of the United States is recovering from his
indisposition.
ARRIVALS' SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YORK"
Packct Suffrin, Logrand, Bourdcaux, 53 days-
Brig Sally, Post, Cape Francois.
Eliza, Armour, Amsterdam, 60 days.
Recovery, Barnard, Port aii Prince.
Springfield, Gunnell, Tobago, 21 da)S.
Schooner John and James, Mathews, Philadelphia.
Lillev, Heard, St Martin's, 18 days.
Sloop Betsey, Gracie, Wafhiugton, (N. C.) 9 days.
Sally, Carey, Petersburg, Virginia, 7 days.
Union, Watson, Philadelphia, 4 days.
Anon, Phipps, Savanna, 14 days.
& CONTINENTAL i
~ AND J
<S STATE SECURITIES, £
BOUGHT AND SOLD, J
AT NO. 196. WATER-STREET. £
{p3~ >4 generous price will be given for Military Rights of Land
y and Jersey Paper Money. May 4. O
<-■&-> <-S>-5 oiSo OSJ-5 v?-> <-0^DISCOURSES ON LAVILA.
O fureur <le fc Jiftinguer, que ne pouvcz vous point!
I ""HE labour a:id anxiety, the enterprizes, and
-*■ adventures, that arc voluntarily underta
taken in pur(uit of gain, are ouc of all propor
tion to the utility, convenience or pleasure of
riches. A competence to satis fy the wants of na
ture, food ami deaths, a flielter from the seasons,
mid the comforts of a family, may be had for
very little. The daily toil of the million, and
of millions of millions, is adequate to a complete
supply ot these lieceflities and conveniences.
"With such accommodations thus obtained, the,
appetite is keener, the digestion more easy and
perfecft, and repose is more refre(hing, than a
inong the molt abundant fuperfluities and the
rarefl luxuries. For what reason then, are any
mortals averse to the situation of the farmer,
mechanic or laborer ? Why do we temptthefeas,
and encompass the globe ? Why do any men af
front heaven and earth, to accumulate wealth,
■which will forever be useless to them ? Why do
we make an ostentatious display of riches ? Why
lhould any man be proud of his purse, houses,
lands, or gardens? or in better words, why should
the rich man glory in his riches ? What connec
tion can there be, between wealth and pride ?
The answer to all these questions is, because rich
es attraCl the attrition, consideration and congratu
lations of mankind; it is not because the rich have
really more of cafe or pleasure than the poor.
Riches force the opinion on a man that he is the
object of the congratulations of others ; and he
feels that they attract the complaisance of the
public. His senses all inform him that his neigh
bora have a natural difpofitionto harmonize with
all those pleating emotions, and agreeable sensa
tions, which the elegant accommodations around
him are supposed to excite.
His imagination expands, and his heart dilates
at these charming illusions : and his attachment
to his pofleflions increases, as fact as his desire to
accumulate more : notiorthe purposes of bene
ficence or utility, but from the desire of illustra
tion.
Why, on the other hand, should any wan be
aihamed to make known his poverty ? Wliy/hould
those who have been rich, or educated in the
houses of the rich, entertain such an aversion, or
be agitated with such terror,at the prospect of los
ing their property i Or of being reduced to live
at an humbler table ? In a meaner house ? To
walk inilead of riding ? Or to ride without their
accustomed equipage or reiiniie ? Why do we
hear of madness, melancholy and suicides, upon
bankruptcy, loss of (hips, or any other sudden
fall from opulence to indigence, or mediocrity
Alk your reason, what disgrace there can be in
poverty ? What moral fentimewt of approbation,
praise or honor, can there be in a palace ? What
diflionor in a cottage ? What glory in a coacli,
what Ihame in a waggon ? Is not the sense of pro
priety, and the sense of merit as much conne<fl
ed with an empty purse as a full one ? Way not
a man be as estimable, amiable and respectable,
attended by liis faithful dog, as if preceded and
followed by a train of horses and servants > All
these questions nray be very wife; and the stoical
philosophy has her answers ready. But if you
aJk the fame questions cf nature, experience,
and mankind, the answers will be diredlly op
posite to those of Epiftetus, viz. that there is
more refpecftability in the eyes of the greater part
of mankind, in the gaudy trappings of wealth
than there is in genius or learning, wisdom or
virtue.
The poor man's conscience is clear ; yet he is a
fhained. His character is irreproachable, jet he
is negletfted and despised. He feels himfelf out
of the fight of others groping in the dark. Man
kind takenonotice of hi ui: he rambles and wan
ders unheeded. In tlie mid 11 of a croud, at
church, in the market, at a play, at an execution,
or coronation, he is in as much obfeurity, as he
would be in a garret or a cellar. He is not dis
approved, censured or reproached : he is only
not seen. This total inattention is to him, inor.
rifying, painful and cruel. He fufiers a misery
from this consideration, which is fliarpened by
the consciousness that others have no fellow feel
ing with him in this diflrefs. If you follow these
■■erfons however into their scenes of life, you
will find that there isa kind of figure which the
meanest of then! all, endeavors to make ; a kind
of little grandeur and refpeift, which the molt in
fignificant, study and labour to procure, in the
iinall circle of iheir acquaintances. Not only the
poorell mechanic, but the man who lives upon
common charity, nay the common beggars in the
llreets ; and not only those who may be all inno
cent, but even those who have abandoned tliem
felves to common infamy as pirates, highway
men and common thieves, court a set of admirers,
and plume thernlelves on that superiority, which
they have, or fancy they, have, over fomc others.
There muftbe one indeed who is the lad and low
est of the human species. But there is no risque
in aflerting that there is no one, who believes
and will acknowledge himfelf to be the man.
To be wholly overlooked, and to know it, are in
No. V.
tolerable. Instances of this are not uncommon.
When a wretch could no longer attract the notice
of a man, woman or child, he must be refpecfta
ble in the eyes of his dog. " Who will love me
then !" was the pathetic reply of one,who Itarv
ed himfelf to feed his maftiff, to a charitable pas
senger who advised him to killor lell the animal.
In this " who will love me then," there is a key
to the human heart ; to the history of human
life and manners ; and to the rife and fall of Em
pires. To feel ourselves unheeded, chills the
mod pleating hope ; damps the molt fond desire;
checks the molt agreeable wilh ; disappoints the
molt ardent expeiftations of human nature.
Is there in fcienceand letters, a reward for the
labor they require ? Scholars learn thevdead lan
guages of antiquity, as well as the living tongues
of modern nations. Those of the east as well as
the weft.—They puzzle themselves and others
with metaphysics and mathematics. They re
nounce their pleaiures, negletfl their exercises,
and dellroy their health ; for what ? Is curiosity
so strong ? Is the pleafnre that accompanies the
pursuit aud acquisition of knowledge so exquisite ?
IfCrufoe, on his island, had the library of Alex
andria, and a certainty that he Hiould never a
gain fee the face »f man, would he ever op£n a
volume ? Perhaps he might: but it is very pro
bable he would read but little. A feni'e of duty ;
a love of truth ; a desire to alleviate the anxie
ties of ignorance, may, no doubt, have an influ
ence on some minds. But the universal objedi
and idol of men of letters is reputation. It is the
notoriety, she celebration, which constitutes the
charm, which is to compensate the loss of appe
tite and sleep, and foinetimes of riches and ho-
nors
The fame ardent desire of the congratulations of
others in our joys, is the great incentive to the
pursuit of honors. This might be exemplified in
the career of civil and political life. That we
may not be too tedious let us inftancein military
glory. Is it to be supposed that the regular
ltanding armies of Europe, engage in the ser
vice, from pure motives of patriotism ? Are their
officers men of contemplation and devotion, who
expec't their reward in a future life > Is it, from
a fen fe of moral, or religious duty, that they risque
their lives, and reconcile them (elves to wounds?
Inliances of all thele kinds may be
found.—But if any one supposes that all or the
greater part of these heroes, are actuated by
such principles, he will only prove that he is
unacquainted with them. Can their pay becon
fidered as an adequate encouragement ? This
which is no more, than a very simple and mode
rate I'ubfiftence, would never be a temptation to
renounce the chances of fortune in other pur
suits together with the pleasures of domeltic
life, and submit to this molt difficult and dange
rous employment. No, it is the confideratfon
and the chances of laurels, which they acquire by
the service.
The soldier compares himfelf with his fellows,
and contends for promotion to be a Corporal :
the Corporals vie with each other to be Serjeants:
the Serjeants will mount breaches to beEnfigns:
and thus every man in an army is constantly as
piring to be something higher, as every citizen
in the commonwealth is constantly ltrugglingfor
a better rank, that he may draw the observa
tion of more eyes.
The purchase of Mr. Hafting!s Town-house
was not quite io,oool. but the furniture is cosh
ly '» the extreme ; and there are fnits for the
different seasons. The beds prepared for casual
summer visits to the metropolis are of the fineft
book muslin, exquisitely wrought, and lined with
India diaper, dyed of various colours, and of a
peculiarly beautiful texture ; and one set of
chairs in particular, which are of carved ivory
coft3c>ol. each chair, in India. '
DISINTERESTED GENEROSITY.
| HEN Metastasio's circuinftances were
far from affluent, and he was only known at
Vienna, as a writer for the opera, under Apof
toloand Zeno, a person with whom he had con
tracted a great intimacy, left him at his death
150001. lterling. But Metaftalio hearing that
his friend had relations at Bologna, went thither
in search of them ; and having found fucli as he
thought best entitled to these pofleffions, told
them, that though the deceased had bequeathed
to him his whole fortune, he could suppose it to
be 110 otherways than in trust, till hefhould find
out the moftdeferving of his kindred, in order
to divide it equally among them, which he im
mediately did, without the least reserve in his
own favor.
SHAKESPEARE,
To the very many editions of our Immortal
bard, one is in agitation by the Blue-stockinc
Club, which confiits of many of thefirft rate male
and female geniuflbs,tobe entitled, " The Ladies
The plan of this edition is to be a
familiar criticism on the sensibilities, vather than
the language or learning of the author—Some
what in the stile of Addison's critique on Mil
ton to be ufeful to all who have any relilh for
the poet, or moral writer.
460
LONDON.
THE DEBTOR. ( By Sir John Moore.)
CHILDREN of Affluence! hear a poor man's prayer,
O haste, and free me from this dungeon's gloom '
Let not the hand of'comfortlefs dclpair,
Sink my grey hairs with sorrow to the tomb !
Unus'd Companion's tribute to demand,
With clamorous din wake chanty's dull ear,
Wring the How aid from Pity's loitering hand,
Weave the feign'd tale, or drop the ready tear.
Far different thoughts employ'd my early hours,
To views of bliss, to scent s of affluence born,
The hand of Plcafure ftrew'd my path with flowers
And every blefling hail'd my youthful morn.
But ah ! how quick the change ! the morning gleam,
That chear'd my fancy with her magic rjs*,
Fled like the garish pageant of a dream,
And sorrow clos'd the evening of my day.
Such is the lot of human bliss below,
And hope a while the trembling flow'ret rear®,
'Till unforeseen descends the blight of woe,
And withers in an hour the pride of years.
In evil hour, to fpccious wiles a prey,
I truftcd—(whom from faults is always free ?)
And the (hort progress of one fatal day,
Was all the (pace 'twixt wealth and poverty.
Where could I seek for comfort fir for aid ?
To whom the ruins of my state commend ?
Left to'myfelf, abandon'd and betray'd,
Too laie I found the wretched have no friend !
E'en he, amid the reft, the favour'd youth,
Whose vows had met thetendereft warm return,
Forgot his oaths of constancy and truth,
And left my child in solitude to mourn.
Pity in vain ilretch'd forth her feeble hand,
To guard rhe sacred wreaths by Hymen wove,
While pale-eyed Avarice from his fordid stand ,
Scowl'd o'er the ruins of neglecled love.
Though deeply hurt, yet, swayed by decent pride,
She hufh'd her sorrows with becoming art,
And faintly drove, with lickly smiles, to hide
The canker-worm that prey'd upon her heart.
Nor blam'd his cruelty— nor wifli'd to hate
Whom once (he lov'd—but pitied and forgive,
Then unrepining yielded to her fate,
And funk in silent anguish to thegrave.
Children of affluence! hear a poor man's prayer,
O hafle, and free me from this dungeon's gloom
Let not the hand of comfortlefs dclpair,
Sink my grey hairs with sorrow to the tomb !
THE UNITED STATES.
M " I MS but the morning of the world with us,
A And Scirnce yet but (beds her orient rays—
I fee the age, the happy age, roll on—
Bright with the splendours of her mid-day beams"
Tho!e beams of virtue, honor, knowledge, truth,
That fcatter'd thro' long periods, have illuni'd
The happieftdays of Empires, now no more,
S«iall meet, and mingle in one glorious blaze—
And (hew the world to what i'upernal heights
Peace, Laws, and Freedom can exalt mankind !
ADVERTISEMENT.
r> Y order of the honorable John Slofs Hobart Esquire, ooeof
XV the Jufticcs of the Supreme Court of Tud ,1., W
ot New-York. Notice is hereby given to Paul DevrcH, now or
late of Long Island, Esquire, an abfeonding debts'r, and to all
others whom it may concern; that upon application and duT
proof, made to the said Justice, pursuant to an a3 of the kgifla-'
turc, entitled " an ast for relief against abfeonding and abfenc
debtors," pasTed the fourth day of April, 17 86, by a creditor of
the f a ,d Paul Deyrcll, he the said Jufticc has directed all his the
laid Paul Deyreil's Elbtc, real and personal, within this State, to
be leized; and that unless hefliall discharge his debts within three
months after the publication of this notice; all his Eftatertalan4
personal will be fold for the payment and fatisfaftion of hiicre
r«!" L D ? lcd at the c "y of New-York, the twenty-feventhday
of March, m the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred
and n.nety March 3,. , aw3m .
William Taylor,
lias' for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
. N °- 3> Queen-St* eet,
Aflortment of EAST-INDIA GOODS.
„ _Among which are the following Articles:
BOOK Muftins 8-4 6-4 5-4 || HUMHUMS,
Jackonet do. j| Long Cloths,
Hankerchiefs.of various kinds,|| Cadis,
C h "» z «. || Seersuckers,
Ginghams, || fioglapores.
l Variet y of handsome painted MUSLINS.
With many other Articles, which will be fold by the Piece or
Package, low for cash.
A Morning School is opened,
by theSubfcriber, for Young Ladiej, at Harmony Hall, ad-
Joining the Baptills burying ground, in Gold Street. Hours of
atten anceare from 6 till B.—For further particulars, please to en
quire of the Public's Obedient Servant, GAD ELY.
Young Ladies School which has been kept at No.
2 19 Queen-Street, is removed to the above place.
Aeoj-lork, May 8, 1790.
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59, to No. 187, Water-Street, near the
Fly-Market,
WHERE they negociate all kinds ofPUBLICX
EXCHANGE. &c. asufual.
new-York, Aprils, 1790. »tf.
Moses Rogers, and Co.
TTAVE removed their STORE to the New Building, eorocr
£ , Golden-Hill and Queen-Street, fronting Burling Slip.
Ncw-York t May 5t 1790.
and a generous price given for Conti
nental, New-Hamplhire, Massachusetts, and
lccuritics, of every denomination, by
EBENEZER THAYER, jun. No. 59, Watcr-Strc*.
New-Yoi,k, April 17, 1790.
(psf IHE Ma 1 l Diligence for Philadelphia leaves the Ferry
St&irr at Aew-Yo/k, forty minutes after Seven every Morning, exctft
Sunday. Dines at Brunjuiick, and reaches Trenton bejore dork.