|' I iitin'l I■■'--i I'l | V -111 i"', I ''' in rrr ■ no i
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN /CTA'O, No. 4:, BROAD-STREETj NeXr THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 12, if Vol. ll.j
DISCOURSES ONDAVILA.
Such bribe! the rapid Greek, o'er Alia hurl'd ;
For such, the steady Romans (hook the world.
IN a city or a village, little employments and
trifling diftindiions are contended for with e
qua! eagerness, as honors and offices in common
wealths and kingdoms.
What is it that bewitches mankind to marks
and signs ? A ribbon ? A garter ? A star ? A gul
den key ? A Marfhil's ftaff ? Or a white hickory
stick Though there is in such frivolities asthefe
neither profit nor pleasure, nor any thing amia
ble, eftiinable or refpeiftable ; yet experience
teaches us, in every country of the world, they
attratft the attention of mankind more than parts
or learning, virtue or religion. They are there
fore fought with ardor, very often, by men pof
fefled in the most eminent degree, of all the more
solid advantages of birth and fortune, merit and
services, with the best faculties of the head, and
the most engaging recommendations of the heart.
Fame has been divided into three species : glo
ry, which attends the great atflions of lawgivers
and heroes, and the management of the great
commands and firft offices of State : reputation,
which is cherished by every gentleman: and cre
dit, which is supported by merchants and trades
men. But even the division is incomplete, be
cause the desire aiul the objetfl of it, though it
may be conlidered in various lights and under
different modifications, is not confined to gentle
men nor merchants but is common to every hu
man being. There are no men, who arc not am
bitious of diftinguiffiing themselves, and grow
ing conliderable anions those, with whom they
converse. This ambition is natural to the human
Ibul : and as when it receives a happy turn, it is
the fourceof private felicity and public prosper
ity ; and when it errs, produces private u«eafi>
ness, and public calamities, it isthe buftnefsqnd
duty of private prudence, of private and public
education, and of natural policy, to dired: it to
rjffh* obWte. IVt '•««. ir (hould be con
lidered, that to every man who is capable of a wor
thy condutft, the pleasure from the approbation
of worthy men is ex'quifite and inexprelfible.
It is curious to consider the final caules of things,
when the physical are wholly unknown. The in
tellectual and moral qualities, are most within
our power, and undoubtedly the most ellential to
our happiisefs. The perfonalqualitieso'fhealth,
llrength, and agility, are next in importance.—
Yet, the qualities of fortune, such as birth, rich
es, and honors, though a man has less reason to
esteem himfelf for these, than for those of his
mind or body, are, every where acknowledged to
glitter with the blighted lustre, in the eyes of the
world.
As virtue is the only rational /buret, and eter
nal foundation of honor, the wifdoin of nations,
in the titlestliey have established as ttie marks of
order and fubord-ination, has grneritlly given an
intimation, not of perfoital qualities, nor of the
qualities of fortune ; but of lome particular vir
tues, more especially bccoming.mtfij, ill the high
itations they poiiefs. Reverence is attributed to
the Clergy—veneration to Magiftratej-i—honor to
Senators—serenity, clemency, or inildnefs of dif
poiition to Princes. The sovereign authority and
iupreme executive, have commonly titles that de
signate power as well as virtue—as Majesty to
rungs—u'agniSciMiti inoit lion-orcd, and fotei Sign
-Lords, to the go\ernment of Genevan—noble
to the States of Frielland—noble and
mighty* Lords to the States of Gneldcrland—noble
great and venerable Lords to the regency of
Leyden—noble vuid grand Mightihe'Tes to the
States of Holland—noble gfre.'r atid venerable
Lords, the regency of Amfterdam—iioblemighti
nefies, the States of Utrecht—and high mighti
neiles the Stfites-(-eneral.
A death bed, it is said, (hews the eftVptinefs of
titles. '] lint may does it not eqri l a]ly
ihew the futility, of riches, power, liberty and alt
earthly things ? The cloud-capt towers, the gor
geoMs palScesjthe folenin temples, the g»eat gFobd
i'-ltil, appear the bafelcls fabric of a vilioii, and
liie irlVlf a tale, told by an ideot, full of found
and fury, fignifying nothing. Shall it beinfer
red from this, that lame, liberty, property and
life, fliall be always despised aild liegletTted ?
s naH laws and government, which regulate fub
<unary things be negletfted, becaufd they appear
baubles at t"he hour of death '
The wifdoni and virtue c' 11 nations have en
deavored to regulate the pa ni)i for re (pert and
diftimftiou, and to reduce it to some order in fo
cietv, by titles marking the gradations of-magif
N°- , >f
SATURDAY, MAT 22, 1790
tracy, to prevent as far as homan power and po
licy can prevent, collifiotis air»ng the passions of
many purfujug the fame objects, and the rivalries,
animofkies, envy, jealousy and vengeance, which
always result from thejii.
Has there ever been a nation, who und«rftoW
i ;ie human heart, better thar the Romans ! Oi
made a better use of the pa/i, nfor confideratioii
congratulation anddiftinctiov ? They considered,
that as reason is the guide life, the fcnfes, tin
imagination and rhe atfcCti. ~s are the springs ol
adti\%»-. Reason holds the hilm, but pallions art
the gafles : and as the diretfeft road to thefc ii
through the senses, thelang uage offigns was em
ployed by Roman wisdom to excitc the emulatibr
and a&ive virtue of the citizens. Dijlinttions ol
conditions as well as of ages, were made by dif
terence of cloathing. The Laticlave, or largt
flowing Robe, studded with broad spots of purple,
the ancient distinction of their Kings, was, after
the eftabiifhment of the consulate, worn by the
Senators, through the whole period ofthe repub
lie and the Empire. The Tribunes of the peo
ple, were, after their inffjtntion, admitted to wear
the fame venerable signal of fandiity and author
ity. The angufticlave, orthe smaller robe, with
narrower studs of purple, wps the diftinguiihing
habit of Roman Kjiights. The golden ring was
also peculiar to Senators and Knights, an<T was
not permitted to be worn by any other citizens.
The pretext, or long "white robe reaching down
to the aoflea, bordered with purple, which was
worn by the principal u.agifrvates, fucli as Cop
fuls, Prretors, Ceufors and fohietimes on solemn
feftivals, by Senators. The cliairs of ivory ; the
Lienors ; the rods ; the axes; the crowns of gold ;
of ivory ; of flours ; of lierbs ; of laurel branches ;
and of oak-leaves ; the civil and the mural crowns ;
their ovations ; and their triumphs ; everything
in religion, government and common life ftinotig
thePiomans was parade, representation and cere
mony. Every thing was addrefled to the emula
tion of the citizens, and every thfng was calcu
lated to attract 'h« attentiov - to allure the con
sideration and excite the congratulations of the
people ; to attach their hearts to individual citi
zen# acfording to their merit : and to their law
givers, magiflratcs and judges, according totheir
ranks, stations and importance, in the State. Ai.d
this was in the true spirit of republics, in which
form of government there is no oth£r confiflent
method of' preserving order, or procuring fub
rniffion to the laws. To such means as these, or
to force, and a (landing army, recourse fnult be
had, for the giiardianfhip of laws, and the pro
tection of the people. It is universally true, that
in all the republics now remaining in Europe,
there is, as there ever has been a more constant
and anxious attention to such forms and maiks
of diftinOtions, than there is in the monarchies.
The policy of Rome was exhibited in its highest
pel fedion, in the triumph of Paulas Emillius
over I'erfeus. It was a striking exemplification
of congratulation and sympathy, contrasted with
each other. Congratulation with the conqueror :
lympathy with the captive : both suddenly chang
ed into sympathy with the conquerer. The de
(criptioli* of this triumph, is written with a pomp
of language correfpoiulent to its dazzlingmagni
ficence. The representation of the King, and his
children must excite the pity of every reader,
who is not animated with the ferocious fenti men ts
of Roman insolence and pride. Never was there
a more moving lcdbn of the melancholy lot of hu
manity, than the contrasted fortunes of the Ma
cedonian and the Roman. The one diverted of
his crown and throne, led irrchains with his chil
dren, before the chariot of the other, blazing in
gold and purple, to the capitol. Thisinftl'uitHve
leflon is given us by the viilorhimfelfin a speech
to the people. " My triumph, Romans, as if it
" had been in derlfion of all human felicity, has
" been interposed between the funerals of my
" children, and both have been exhibited, as
" fpedtacles, before you. Perseus, who, him
" felf a captive, saw his children led with him in
" captivity, now enjoys them in i'afetv. I, who
" triumphed over him, having ascended the ca
" pitol, from the funeral chariot of one of my
" sons, descended from that capitol, to fee ano
" ther expire. In the house of Paulus none re
" mains but hiinfelf. But youf felicity, Ro
" mans, and the prosperous fortune of the pub
" lie, is aconfolation to me under this deftruc
" tion of my family."
It is easy to fee how such a scene must operate
on the hearts of a nation : how it must aftetlthe
paffiori for diftintfion : and how it must excite
the ardor and virtuous emulation of the citizens.
* 45. 39-
461
PHYSIOGNOMATICAL ANECDOTE.
T REQUIRE nothing of thee, said a father to
1 his innocent f6n, when bidding him farewell,
bu; that thou lhouldft brjng me back this thy couiif
tenance.
All amiable and innocent young lady, who had
been chiefly educated in the country, saw her face
in the glals, as {he pafled i: with a candle in her
hand, returning from evening prayer, and hav
ing jutt laid down her bible. f-ier eyes were ci'.ft
on the ground"wit.h liß.ypr-.v'iblc- moicfty, at the
light of her own image. Siie pailed the win'c.
in town, I'urrotinded by adorers, hurried, away Ly
dilnpation, and plunged in triflihg
Ihe forgot her bible, and her devotion—ln the
spring ihe returned again toilie country, her
chamber, and the table on which her bible lay.
Again fiie had the candle in her hand, and again
saw herfelf in the glass. She turned pale, put
down the candle, retreated to her fofa, and fell
on her ki:res—Oh God ! I no longer know my
face. How am I degraded ! My follies and vani
ties are all written in my countenance, Where
fore have they been negletfted, illegible, till this
inltant ? Oh come and expel, come and utterly
efface them, mild tranquillity, sweet devotion,
and ye gentle cares of benevolent love !■"
CONGRESS
0,1 the ytfy infiant in the Hqufeof Beprefentaihes, vSlien tie hill forfi
valty ahujling the claims oj Baron Stmbcr\ was before {he Houj}, se
veral Members having frevroufly spoken to a motion for Jti;iking c\iz
the JirJi clause of the bill, Mr. Pace made thcjalfowing reply.
S I R,
I AM a earn (I the motion for (hiking out the 2706 dollars, and
lnftgrtinjt 1 5 00 » because it is incompatible with the preceding
of the bill, which slates the sum {2706) as justly due to the
Baron according to the report ot the Secretary of the Treasury ;
;ind bccaufe it is derogatory to the honor and veracity of the mem
bers of the committee of Congiefs, on whose tcftimony the Ba
ron's claim is founded.
Some gentlemen, iir, lay great (tress.on the want of proof, ref
pc&ing wh?t is called the contract with Baron Steuben ; but*fy,
I think we have had all the proof the nature of the cafe will admit
of, and Cor toy part I (hould want no other than Mr. Lee's leitfr
ti» the Baron.
Sir, this illustrious vetefan offered hisfervihes on such gfirerouai
terms and served us so eflentialLy, that I (hall blush for Congrtfsv
fhotild tht ideas of fomegentlemen hqw. prevail. It is unworthy
of Congress, after having f» long enjoyed the benefit of those ser
vices, now to be thus coldly scrutinizing the terms on which he
offered them, and speaking of them aS of little importance I
Weigh them not, fir, with she dollars proposed : they are far be
yond any sum which we can give : .and if the worthy member
Irom North-Carolina (Mr. Bloodworth) who mpyed the motion,
wishes to abandon the principles of the bill, aud inftcad of pay
ing to the Baron the debt there dated as due to him, means to
give him a sum by way of compensation for his services, and has
economy in view, I would advise him to withdraw his motion ;
tor if we depart from the principles'of the bill, they who v9luc
this great man's services as I do, will vote to give him much more
than the bill proposes. If I (hould be at liberty to propofea com
pensation for the facrifices he made by coming to America and
lerving in her war, and to recompense him for his great fcrvicei,
I am sure I (hall propose a much larger sum than has yet been
talked of.
Sir, had the Baron ftipultJed to receivc but two percent on the
afticles under his dire&ion, or I fay on what be saved, lie
would be entitled to much more than is now propof.-d to fc>e given
him. The economy he introduced into the army was the occa
sion of an imtnenfe (aving. Who can fay now what was saved, in
arms, accoutrements and ammunition, and by the reduction of bag
gage and forage ? I have been told that ofHcers, who had leaded a
waggon with their baggage, wrre (bon reduced to a (ingle pack
horse.
Some gentlemen have made light of the diftipbne which has
been attributed to the Baron, and told us of the affairs of Bunker's-
Hill, Trenton, Princeton, and Germantown. It was true these
were brilliant a&ions ; but the mcmberlrom South-Carolina (Mr.
Smith) and the member from Delaware, had replied fully to this
observation. They well observed that, brilliant as those anions
were, valoiii 1 without discipline ij.qfttn vain, and may lead only
to definition —that the commander in chief did wood, rs with
out the Baron, and (they might have added) he was Wonderful iri
refourcrs, and " in him'felf an hoil" : but we (hould not now con.
fider what the commander in chief did before he had the Baron'i
alfiftance, but what he did with his assistance, and what use he
made of his services ; and to this, at far as relates to the Baron, he
has. repeatedly and geneioufly borne ample trftimony.
Sir, the Baron, as Adjutant-General and Director General, was
peculiarly adapted to the purpose of the American arm). Hav
ing served S2 yars in the Pruflian army, wllich Americans had
been taugbt to believe was the belt difcip(iued in the world, his
discipline was more readily embraced, and more confidence *re
posed in it, than would have been the cafe bad almost any other
man, of any other nation, undertaken that great tallc. Thepiaife
now given to the Baron is no disparagement, therefore, to other
officers. The Commander in Chief flood in need of an adjutant
like him, from the peculiar fituatioa of our army, and has acknow
ledged his services ; therefore it does not become us to speak of
them as unimportant.
Sir, the importance of those services would have been displayed
to your view by many officers now in this house, had they not,
from that delicacy peculiar to American officers, who having laid
by the name and dress of foldicrs and mixed with their fellow-ci
tizens in civil life, refrained from appearing to be more know
ing in military matters than the other members of this house : I
fay, were it not for this delicacy, we should have had a full dis
play of the Baron's services. One officer, indeed (Col. Bland)
from the honest warmth of his heart, has not refrained fiomfa\-
ing a few words in support of the Baron's claim. But, fir. I have
alked officers, and some of them now n this house, whether I had
misunderstood or over raied the Baron's claim ? and I have been
constantly told that 1 did not. Though I had not the honor of
being in the army, I was well informed by my correfpoadcms
[Wholf. No. 1 to.]f.er* of many important eneumfaneet; and on enquiring what
were the rffe&s produced by the new Adjutant and Dire&or Ge
neral (the Baron Steuben) I was told that they were visible »n majjy
econonvcal arrangements, in d;fpo(ttions of corps r in manoeuvfrrfg
in marches, in -encampments, and particularly rn morfc fucmt ana
rapid movements and preparations tor ast ion. I was told that
■vhenthe Marquis de la Fayette, with a derachTnent urtcfertHs com
mand, w« in danger M-being euc off on Fris return to the army,
and the Commander in Chief was determined to support that in
valuable office r, the whole army was under arms and ready to
marchmlefs than fifteen nvnuiestrom the timerhefignal wasgiven.
the effrft of thu dif. ipline wu fern »n the marches of our
army ;they pa fled rivers in lots time than the best troops in Europe
could. Those excellent French troops, whic4» served with them
>n the campaign of 1781, were inferior to them in this refpe&—
the superiority of our troops, as to rapidity of movements, was
seen inthe attacks on the t woredoubts of York-Town in Virginia.
Sir, I wiH affirm that, if th<e chufe be stricken out, a larger fnn
flight to be infested. We have been a(ked, what will our officers
»y to this vofe in favor of the Baron ? I will venture to fay, Sir.
•ey will be pleased w;thit; they acknowledge the obligation
they were under to that great man , they view his circumstances
n che fame as that gallant officer does whs is now the Secre
tary and drew the report on which the bill before you is founded,
and which does honor to his heart.
Sir, if aay report defcrae* to to received without fcrstiny, it it
'Jw nae m which your bill it foaadfd. 1 hope, therefore, we
flial/ nm depart from that report, in so material a point as it pro
fofti by the moiiem itttur before you. t wish, indeed, fine rely,
that the worthy member would Withdraw hit motion ; if he will
»01, J aauft vottagaiDft it, and IrlA that a great majority will vote
From the PENNSYLVANIA JOURNAL.
MR. PRINTER,
By infer ting this in your valuable paper, you will
oblige a Debtor.
TO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
I AM the younger of two brqthers, and my
brother inherited all the paternal estate—
1 was obliged to feck my fortune elsewhere.
Accordingly I pushed out in a new country,
and purchased a large tratt of land of the A
borigines, and by my induflry soon acquired
a valuable estate—but I had scarcely began
to enjoy the comforts of it, before my bro
ther claimed it ashis property, and in fine, in
the year 1775, commenced an a&ion against
me with a view to wrest it from me, which
neceflitated me to borrow money on interest,
from time to time, for about eight years, for
so long was it before I recovered judgment
again ft my brother. I promised my creditors,
A. B. and C. to pay them severally or the
" Bearer" the sums hired in about three or
four years, at the rate of 6 pr. cent. pr. ann.
but at the expiration of the time, was unable
to perform my promises without utter ruin
to myfelf—and I must acknowledge that they
were very easy on my promising them to dis
charge the debts as soon as I should be in cir
cumstances to do it. They now fay that per
iod is arrived, and claim my promise, urging
their long patience with me,and some indeed
have prefentedmy notes, to whom they were
not originally given, and plead that they pur
chafcd them, when theoriginal holders would
trust me no longer, through the apprehen
sion that I Ihould soon be a bankrnpt, and that
thefamepromifeismade totheinas " Bearer,"
as to the original pofleffor.
lam in such a perplexity that I scarcely
know what I fayordo—Sometimes lalk them
to re-loan the money, and take one third of
their debt in some fine land, which I have on
the Millifippi, with no incumbrance but a few
tribes of savages, who will easily be induced
to quit if—and promise those who comply,
that I will difchargc my debts to them before
any others, and threaten those who do not,
that I will not pay them a farthing unless I
shall have a furpluflage alter having paid oft
the rc-loaners. Atother times I tell them the
" Bearer" has no right tomore than the note
cost him, and that I will pay the overplus to
the original holder. In fliort I have tried se
veral other plans, andfometimesfayonething
and sometimes another, so that my creditors
thinkl mean to jockey them, and declare they
will bear with me no longer. They fay that
when I was poomy profeflions were lb fair,
that they really thought me honest—but that
now I am able to fatisfy their demands, I dis
cover what 1 am—and that unless I honestly
discharge my debts, according to the face of my
notes, they would not trust ine another penny
to favc me from the gallows, which 1 think is
very ungenerous treatment—forwho,in these
modern times, would not discharge his debts
with as little interest and inconvenience as
poflible ?
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THt UNITED STATES.
PRICE CURRENT
Of the DOMESTIC DEBT of the UNITED
STATES.
T*r Jfmy One Thou find S«rco Hand reel amd ni nit y *.
DEBT coittra&ed immediately by") prl pr.
the Officers of Congrcjt, funded | £. Ct.
on the resources of the Union; the inter- t r, « .
ell ■pa\iquarterly at theNAT losl alßank j '1 **
in Sped:. The price falling on account !
of the clamor* of t-be State creditors. J
Crs" DEBTS ccntredcd iiidfl'tnei by individual Statu
for the fiipfort »Jthe uimt, jnd benefit of the union.
WEW-HAMfSHIRE.
Certificates issued on the recommen-~|
dation of Congress, to the continental |
troops of said State for deprecation of ]> 3/6 ] 17,
pay, and for services done by the Mi- |
litia and supplies furniflied. j
Amount supposed to be 300,000 dol
lars.
So prat) km made for paying the inter efi, but certain portions
»f the debt receivable m payment nf tixes y and a great number of col
rftor< or State Brok.-r* "-telf Jupported Ly the commifiom re
ceived on the Hegociatic*.
MASSACHUSETTS.
Dcbtscontratftedandcertificares grant-7 r . .
cdas aforefaid. iai
Amount upwards of J,000,000 dollars.
C The State uttabfe I: pa. th.e tntereji f.nu the furT'nder of the
to the unrjn; nnd the trediters chin' ' the right oj being put on
1 Jwtmf a itk the holder* of arnlirentaljecurities.
RHODE-ISLAND.
Certificates granted, &c
® '
The amount unknown, fay, 100,000 dollar*
C"T* The Stite out of th' union and devoid cj even principle of
hoWffty, compelling the creditors to receive pa \ merit ojthe principal by in
f}ailment\ in paper money, depreciated to 15 for 1. The creditors pray
r9drcfs from the %merriment of the union upon the plea of jujlice,
'ecauje debts were contra fled on the credit of the Firm ; and altho
they have not the company's fig nature at in the cafe oj continental Jecu
ritrcj, they can bring Jul! proof oj the col rtnerjhip.
CONNECTICUT.
Certificates granted, Sic.
Amount near 2,000,000 dollars.
{P Fhf petyple groirmg undrr the prejfurt ej dirtfl taxes, and
J'ifify «f>plaining of *u undue proportion ojthe National Debt.
NSW-YORK
Certificates granted, tic.
Amount upwards of 1,000,000 dollars.
No interrji pud, their Land-OJjicc almo/l exhayjled, and the
creditors firaiint for a fmrtuipeuon oj the benektt aritng from the
latefunding fijiem.
Certificates granted, See. . 3/6 | 17J
Amountexclufive ofinterefl: near 1,000,000.
Nt fundi but direS tare!, and both the people and their re
prefentJtw<s extremely anxirvs for fneh arrangement i as will tend to
tqualiic the burthens of the different Stales, andflrengthen the union.
PLJCYfYLVANIA.
Certificates granted, Scc.
Amount about 2,000,000 dollars.
The inlerefl jfrfjtfy in arrears and paid in a depredated pa
per <utrency, loth the people avd the creditor, d,[pleased with their mem
en tn (ongrejt in the year 1790. jor not adfocatrng a frrcpofition that
0.8. •• warranted hi the ennftituit*, and h the fonndejl principle. of
haver, and of national poliey ■" and for Joffering them/,(,,< to fc per.
Juadcd '■••ij'V nm in Congrcfi ; that the mea.
Jure wouldle dijjyreealle to theirconjlituent,.
Certificates granted, See. 4 y| 20
Amount supposed to be rjo,ooo dollars.
1 ,le fi'o' ifion con/idfred Precarious, mine to the intereflei
and oppopte views of mrmben in (he ; and the people di/tiofed
'to acqujefce in u-hitever measures maybe deemed conducive to the genr
ral good. °
MARYLAND.
Certificates granted, &c
Amount about Boo,qoo dollars.
frr The people being much attached to the general government and
the welfare of the union, lament exceedingly that their representative i 0/
■'Ayr were governed To much by a mi flake* State policy, as to oppcf,
the bcjl means that could be devijedjor the ejlablr/hment (/national ere-
Debts contra&ed, ic.
Amount about 3,600,000 dollars.
(W Tht alizrns tomplaining that they have to pay so large a tor
twtl ej the continental duties h thtir great ronfiimptinn, and derive no
'""fit from the payment ofinterefl; and difopprovt of ndifcriminatirtt)
tclireen th: tonunental and, i/jte creditors that is so very unfavtrtMe
to the latter.—Their repr,fenta{iits ronimed that their conduff was
totueuhtfiin S ain pnpuldrity, and diftiofed to aCI in future uton va-
Uonttprinciples ; noa, htmimg that public credit cannot be eftMithed
i* any oilier tvv, but by an adejuate prtmfion kr all the debts incur
red h the war. • ,
XORTfVCAROLINA.
Debts contracted, &*. | 7 ,
Amount supposed to be about 2,500,000 dols.
£3* P'i (peculating „« the creditor, 1 n making iihit
eycall a provifionjor the debt, by obliging then to take 4;. in the bound
r. Wr T' V '>°° frr ctM. and the citizens fuHy
J'nJille, whin it is too late, that however well acquaintedfome »/ their fur
**y <"th Phytic, Mathematics, and Natural P/ii.
y T", 'gnorant of the bufinef, of Finance, and
of the true intcrtjls oj the 6tate.
SOUTH-CAROLINA.
Debts contracted, &c.
Amount upwards of, 5,000,000
iii ? , Af ■"ydbgjujl, ce , and the State rendered inca.
paiU, by the iontincnuljundmgjv/lem, to fatisfy their demand,.
Debts contra(fted, &o.
["PPofed to be, 400,000 dollars.
lo'm ,ufh il/t",r"n C ' n " k f °?y P r < lv 'f«">Jor >t< creditors, ncral-
W j r , '"J 1 " P' m,li "courage speculation ■
and ; drtermnti to hup the ieL tnf e , ua !! y j n
ogmvfta confolidalion of the tovermnent "• ' "J-cur.ty
I'm lAUti rniA, May 15, i- g o.
462
NEW-JERSEY.
DELAWARE
VIRGINIA
GEORGIA
" Pultc utility requires that, property Jhould be reguLiteJ/f
general, in^exiileru/es."
HUME has given a particular explication of the ori
gin and nature of juftfce, in the fourth volume
of his efTays. The force and perspicuity with which '
treats these point 3 entitle his remarks to a most attentir
confiderition. His diilioguifhing mind never difcovcr
e«l a stronger degree of illumination, than in the dilcnf
fion of principles" on which justice is founded, an 3 Ey
which it should be regulated.
It mayfeem unaccountable that men fhculd dicer ib
much in their ideas, with refpcct to the rights of pro
perty, when it is considered how much time has elapsed
since focietv began to call itfelf civilized. The two
principal difficulties con fid; firftly,in detennini.-. r wkit
general laws should be fixed to secure property ; aid,
secondly, in making a proper application of those
neral rules to particular cases. The latter of the& if.
ficulties is that which involves people in the most fre
quent doubt and inconvenience. There are manv *>.
stances, in which individuals are exposed to great i»equ.i
lities of advantage by the regular course of eflaWiflted
laws. This cifcumftance creatst an oppofitionti tie
minds even of honed men againA the operation of inflex
ible rules of juflice. It leads people into an encuirv
how that rule can be just, which often placesindividusls,
with refpeft to each other, in so unequal a fituatior..
Why should the law ever authorise one man to make a
bargain with another, unless the benefit to both is ex
actly reciprocal ? Why should a man be protected in the
enjoyment of property which cost him less than he de
mands for it ? Why should not a contract be difTolvcd
when one party gains, or the otherlofes by its fulfilment?
These questions and many others of a like nature will
fuggefl themselves, when we are disposed to set aside fix
ed rules, merely becaufie they bear hard in particular ca
ses. Those who wish to refine away the ordinary max
ims of business may be influenced by motives of human
ity ; but their notions extended over society would pro
duce incredible mifchief.
%d. | i
2/6 I 12}
Regulations refpefting property generally grow cut
of experience. They are seldom fixed and permanent,
till a people have sustained monstrous inconvenience bv
their being loose and uncertain. There is such a de
gree of rigor eflential to the support of a prosperous
(late of society, as does not readily aflimilate with the
natural feelings of men. It requires a course of disci
pline to make a man believe that a rule is obligatory,
for no other reason, than because it is eflablifhed. But
lie may learn the importance of supporting rules, though
they may fubjeft him to peculiar hardships on some par
ticular'occafion. He will soon perceive that the fame
regulations, which prevent his recovering what he has
loft by an hard bargain, afford him security for that part
of his property which remains, and for what he may
hereafter acquire. My ideas on this fubjeft may be lt
luftrated by the following extract from Hume's eflays.
" Cyrus, young and unexperienced, considered only
the individual cafe before him, and reflected on its limit
ed fitnefs and convenience, when he afligned the long
coat to the tall boy, and the Ihort coat to the other of
smaller size. His governorinftrufted himbetter ; while
lie pointed out more enlarged views and consequences,
and informed his pupil of the general, inflexible rules,
neccdary to support general peace and order in society."
Though the principles communicated in this specula
tion are not original or uncommon, they are such how
ever as deserve to be frequently inculcated.
3/9 I
4/6 | 22i
FRANCE.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
March 7.
A NUN RESTORED TO THE WORLD.
j\/TISS Jouet,lateofthe convent in the St. Maude
-L J- at Vincennes, appeared at the bar to return
thanks for the liberty she enjoyed under adecrec
of the AHembly, of returning from the cloyfter
totlie world. With her order Ihe had renounced
her habit, and appeared in the ordinary dress of
liei sex. She addrefled the Afiembly in the fol
lowing terms
4/ | 20
3/9 I * 8
A sentiment no less pl<?nfing to tliofe to whom
ir isexprelled than to those who feel ir, lias brought
me before you this day. It is the sentiment of
heart-felt gratitude.
\ ou behold in me one of those unfortunate
beings, whom injustice or violence, or avarice,or
an indiscreet and blind zeal, had thrown into
bondage, I had almost laid the Grave.
I heir pitiable lot, long forgotten by the
world, has at length found in you, kind protectors
ana intrepid defenders.
1 am one ofthofe who have'felt, in the molt
ively manner, the sweet effetts of your humani
ty ; and therefore am I one of those who molt
cordially bless this Augutt Aflembly.
lien once I am feci), it cannot be imputed
to me that, in availing myfelf of your decree, 1
only followed the impulse of an inconstant and
fickle character, and was influenced by worldly
motives. A body broken by conftam solicitude,
gilts, lear, and above all by the dreadful ills
which a heart feels that has been robbed of its
hoerty : Such are the fad remains of a languish
ing life which I give back to society ; such is the
victim which your wisdom has snatched from
bondage, and restored to life It fliall be found
that 1 employ it in the practice of social virtues,
2/| to
o jo
TH£ TABLET No. CXVf.and in proving that I feel the niofl: inviolable re-
Ipeifl for the con'titution, for the nation, Lhe,Ja\v
and the King : And here 1 swear that I wili be
faithful to them all. What a pleasure do 1 feel
in being able to take this oath in the Sanctuary
of Patnotifm, of Law and of Liberty !
" As the fira proof of my firm resolution fine
ly to fulfil this new engagement, fuffer me to in
form you of the obstacles of every kind which,
in the cloyfters, are thrown in the way of the ex
ecution of your laws. Promises, threats, ter
rors, affronts, snares, nothing is forgot to rivet
the chains which it was your intention to break.
Take such steps as your wisdom fliall point out to
Hop the progress of ineafures f 0 censurable."
To this fpeecli the President made the follow
ing reply :
" The National Afl'embly, whilfl it applauds
,the patriotic devotion of citizens ofbothfexes
and of every rank, feels a particular farisiaftion'
in having reinltated in their natural rights weak
and unfortunate beings, who make so noble and
affedting an use of their liberty."
It is more easy to conceive than to describe
what sensations this address excited throughout
the whole Afl'embly, except indeed in the Abbe
Maury's quarter.
The eloquent Speaker appeared without her
religions dress, and Teemed already to enjoy the
happiness which ever accompanies liberty.
Mademoiselle Jouet retired ainidll the accla
mations of the auditory, which was unufualiy
numerous.
March, i 7.
M. dela Fayette obfervetl on the letter from
M. Vandernoot that however much he refpetfed
the Congress of Brabant, he could not yet per
ceive in them the true representatives of the peo
pie ; he was therefore of opinion, that the As
sembly, after the example of the King, should
not receive the letter addressed to them by the
President of the Congress of Brabant.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
WEDNESDAY, MAY, 9.
"* * * * ▼
OX motion of Mr. V ining the House went i:; r o u
committee of the whole on the bill making
provision for the public debt of the United States
The fecftion in which 600,000 dollars is appro
priated for the services of government Mr.
son moved should be ftruckoiit—lo leave the pro
vision for that objetft at large—lie observed that
the exigencies of government might be fiich as to
require a much larger fuui—in which cafe it
>vould lay at the mercy of the public creditors.
This motion was objected to by Mr. Sedgwick
Mr. Boudmor, Mr. Gerrv, and Mr. Stone—ir was
observed that it ftrOck at the principle of the bill,
•which contemplates a sacred deposit, or appropri
ation for the use of the public creditors that on
Inch an appropriation the public credit and the
hopes of the creditois are suspended, and with
out which, fucli a violation of the public faith
would enfne, that 110 exigencies however great,
would enable government to command those re
fourccs which every country may be neceiiitated
to apply to.
Tins motioii was negatived by a large majority,
rhe fertion which provides chat a' loan flia'll
be made by the Secretary of the Treasury, Mr.
Madi Ton moved fliould be amended by ftrikin-r
out the words" Secretary of the Treasury," and
inferring f that the President oftlie United States"
c a life a loan to be effected, &c. This motion oc
casioned a debate—lt wasfupported by Mr. Ames
and Mr. Gerry—Mr. liland and Mr. Lawrance
were in favor of such a modification, as that the
power fliould devolve oil the President agreeable
to> the conflitution and not by law—]*■>. Smith
l S j Cl ) Mr - Sherman, Mr. Liverniore and Mr.
oeagwjcJi, were in |"avor of the clause as it flood
in the bill.—The motion was carried in the af
iimative—a 1 nrther amendment was made em
powering the President to direct the application
" die loan to the several objects for which it is
to be effected.
A meflhgc was received from the Senate in
torming the honfe, that they difatrree to the
amendment in Med on by,the House to the bill
• £ effect to the a«a therein menrtaned
in refpeoi to rheState of North Carolina, and for
amending alfothat they have flfcd
rC°!i pr ? ,l^! til, g an i n f crcf >urfe after the
of JuTynexr, between the United States,and
»e tate of Rijode-Ifland and Providence Plan
3tious, &c. in v/liich they request I he concurrence
tt l If Hj> u fe—This bill* was read, and then the
nonfe adjourned.
}>p rr' ' rca^* n ? °* t ' , ' s bill, >t wai moved that it should
fan \ ° r ,he <n 'he House ; but it was la dto be unnecef
bv'tl' ' 1 C j Va,l . at *®®* made by the S nate from the copy, printed
'ions tr! :rr^ C , rCVC,V *" cw - Mr. Page made Tome Ihort objec
upftn n 0 \ • * but no other member offered any observations
anv ' L rcce ' Vfc * l * ,c Second reading on Thurfdav, wiihou,
an ) Oppofmon whatever. • 1
THURSDAY, MAY 20.
IT • j the intercourse between the
rT£ S r ateS ' an . d the state of Rhode-Island was
a?. i he J econd £ i ,lie ; and made the order of the
) for Mondav week.
The disagreement of the Senate to the amend.
. . 0!1 h Y the House to the bill so
giving efreot to the act therein mentioned, with
rcipec't to ihe ltate of North-Carolina, was taken
into confideracion-Mr. Live,more moved tha
the lioule /hould# recede—Mr. Gilman opposed
the motion ; lie observed that it would be an im
proper facnfice „f the sentiments of a majority
ot the House, repeated'y declared, to gratify the
~ £. s . of *" '"dividual member of the Senate—
and Mr ' Mr ' Mr - Sene 7, Mr. Burkr
• i y ; werea ga>"ft receding— Mr. Seds:-
w.ck, Mr Smith (S. C.) and Mr . Madison fpnkeTn
favor °f themotion : 11 was observed that to rejedl
the report of the committee of conference, when
'°~" ear c b 5 ,n g unanimous, was to deltroy the u
tilltv ol such committees.
7he motion for receding was negatived—in
consequence of which the bill is 101 l —.
On motion of Mr. Williamfon a committee was
appoin ted to bring in a bill to adapt to the ttate
ot North-Carolina, the judiciary laws oftheUni-
Hi ateS ~ the Quaker nominated Mr. William
lon Mr. Gerry and Mr. Steeletbr this committee
i he i eport of the committee on the petition of
lomas Jenkins and Co. was agreed to; this
de'V 0 " W al to , remic the dl,ties °» certain goods
destroyed by fire on their parage up the North
i!r er ,T a " 3 ordered to be brought in.
Ir burke brought in a report on the memorial of
Nathaniel Twining which was in favor of the
niemonalift, in part
Mr. Steele laid the following motion, in sub.
stance, on the table—That a committee, to con
ot. a ™ e, nber from each (late, be appointed to
euqi'if e into and make report on the proceedings
ot the several states refpecfting the amendments
propoled by Congress at their lart felfion to the con
ltituuon ot the United States ; »lf„ to report what
turiher amendments are necedary—Mr. Steele
added a lew remarks to this moti on which refer
red principally to tliefubjed of elections,refpecft
ing which he said the " feelings of the people
werecremblingly alive."—
Mr. Sedgwick moved that the report of the
felert committee on the memorial of J. Hart and
11. V\ ells refpecfting the old paper money, fliould
be taken into consideration by the committee of
the whole,while on the bill for funding the debt
of the United States—this motion was oly'et r ted
to, but after a short debate was carried in the
affirmative.
The report was read—Mr. Sedgwick then re
newed his motion for annexing to the several de
nominations of certificates proposed by the bill to
be funded, the bills of credit ifl'ued by the au
thonry ol the United States j* £ongrefs a(Tem
bietl. —- I his motion occasioned a lengthy de
bare— u was finally agreed to, after beingainend
eel on motion of Mr. Madison, to read thus
r ose O leallin g certificates] whichfhall be is
sued for the bills of credit iflhed by the authority
of t!>e United Slates in Congress allembled, at the
rate of dollars in those bills for one dollar
in ipecie.
It was then moved to fill up the blank—Mr.
Haitley proposed too—Mr. Scott joo— Mr.Part
ridge 40—f urtherdebate enfuedon the motion
the committee rose without deciding—on morion
of Mr. \ ining, the House adjourned, to meet to
morrow at 10 o'clock.
FRIDAY, MAY 21
The committee appointed for the purpose. brought in a bill pur
iuarit to the report oil the memorial of Thomas Jenkins, and Co.
, Mr. Williamfon reported a bill for adapting to the Stare of N.
■ Carolina, the Judiciary I.aws of the United States. Thcfe hills
had a firftand second Ptading.
In committee of the whole on the funding bill.
Mr. Senev in the chair.
T he blank in the clause added yesterday refpefting the bills of
credit, or paper money, was filled up with " one hundredliv
tSis vote the committee agreed to fund those bills at one hundred
dollars for one dollar in specie.
Mr. Heifter proposed an amendment by'way of proviso, to the
so lowing purport—That this clause fh.ill not be deemed to be a
rule to the commiflioners for fettling the accounts between the
I nitcd Sratcs and individual States—this proviso after a (horr dif
cuflion was negatived.
An amendment proposed by Mr. Boudinot to the clause which
farcifies ■' indents" was agreed to—to the following effect : Pro
vided that the mtereft paid by any of the States on certificate of
c.'ther of the above descriptions and endorfitton the fame! thali
Dot be funded as afirrfaid—but in such cai»r indents of interelt
fliall be 1 fftied from the Treasury of the Uni(e3 States 111 favot of
such States.
In the 4th fcfl-on the Word "twenty" the price of the land
was struck out, and "thirty" infrned.
The committee procreded in the difcuflion as far x the 9th
fiction—tlrey then rose and reoorted progress.
A melTage was received from the Senate, informing, that they
have concurred in the icfolufions of the House refpefting the ar
rears of paydue to officers and foldreis of the Virginia and North-
Carolina lines of the late army—with amendments.
The amendments are to expunge the words, " South-Carolina"
—ar.d to add a prnvifo,for exci ptvng such wairants, or certificates
as have been already ifTued to fa:d officers and soldiers. Laid 011
the table.
Adjourned till Monday loo'clock
RICHMOND, May 13.
Thursday last the Convention of the Clergy
and lay deputies of the Protestant Eftfcopal Church,
met at the capitolinthis city, when a very pathe
tic discourse suitable to the occasion, was deliver
ed by the Rev. Mr. Walke. During their let
ting, they nominated and voted in Jaihes Madi
son, Efq; President of William and Mary, as a
463
for tins state, \vl;o it is expected wiil
ihortly be consecrated.
' PHILADELPHIA, May ij.
Extrafi'tf a 'Setter froin-Cdtiio>i, (Chm*) datsd De-
' tcmi.-r 15, 1759.
VV e have had here this season fourteen fail
bearing American colours ; the schooner from
New-York 13 not vet arrived. The (hip from the
North-Welt coali: of America is arrived with fu s.
e Spaniards have got a fort at Nootka Sound,
0 S u,ls ; belldes a4O gun llii j>, to protect the
trade—They pay great attention to our colour:;;
they have taken four or five fail of Englilh vellels
rioni Macao, and I'uffer oars to pals umiiolefled.'
FOR LHi. GAZETTE OF TIIF. U.KITED STATES.
ADDRESS iO HEALTH.
TTEALTH, ! haft thou fled tjiv favorite ihore ?
Columbia mouriuiluc £uuc,
On return, return once more,
Leave he* - not thy lots to moan.
See her foils laie frelh witti vbuth,
Lolling, languid, seek tbe'bed ;
See her daughters, tam'd for truih,
Droop—tor rol'jr Health ivfled.
But Cure fomc change has laken plate
tden one ftjrting leaves his bed :
Anxtct\ now fills each face—
And they forget that health is fl-d.
An nu ! But each forgets his pain,
Columbia's bejl beloveddroop*,
Oh Health ' return ! Return again ; -
° r oke Columbia Hoops.
Return to him and a!J is wc'l,
Our fifties hang on him alone,
Come and paled.feafe difp 1,
Leave us not his lols to moan.
NEW-YORK, SATURDAY, MAY 22 .
Law,a " c «> Egbert Benson and Kvi,
Why (fays a late writer) are not fomeraea
furcs taken by leg,llatnres to prevent the lives of
(o many perions from being destroyed almost e
nr7r 7 * *5" 'Stance and presumption of
fwarrn 3 " Un<^'Ja,ified prartitioners, who
fwar n ° ver every part of the United States-to
he d.fgrace of a profeffion which has for its ob
jeUthe molt invaluable of bleflings, health and
its attendant comforts.
di,^' dIC | Ule " ,aybe . fufficienr to check many abfur
. » , b " t the force of law to restrain
medical Empiricifin.
" To the cultivators of the earth in the old
countries, the U„ ited Srates upfn the firft afy] °™
wild landT 1 i thOW^l the w " der nef S or
infj2' ft * " 0t be ,he most eli * ible e
11 then fii ft attempts, there is a great number of
Unde -« 1 --on to be purcliafed on easy
terms, ,n all parts of the continent. On these
they may introduce the modern improvements
in husbandry, with such advantage, as to double
and treb'e the value of their purchases in a fcort
rend'ue'ofmr rUUati °" for th =
The American Mufenm informs tllat a single
| state of New-York, withacapifal
fand'n J pounds, has cleared one thou
"< -ri yCar 7 • Inanu <ac!tufe of porafh alone,
his country is already nearly independent
of the whole world, for ironwork, fapi, JH
and Other' * "1 wome "\ t hats, mak liquors
and other articles—and great and rapid proorefs
is niakingin the manufacture oi elafs duck coarTc
/mem, thlhiefall kiids, &&SX&
"he bad ft™, '? T" ' il[Tic " l,ic - <"'""K fro,,,
the bad state of credit under the late confedera
non and wind, continues yet to be felt-not
withftanding the want of competent capitals
fures a 'idthe rivalfhip of foreign maniac'
P roves tha t attempts in manu
facturing establishments, are productive of more
mo°ney! " ° chcr nlode employing
It was the wish of Henry the IV of France that
oncp PCa l! S Is kingdom might dine at least
once a week on poultrv-fhould the revolution in
that country he brought to a favorable iflbe there
pier Chan e P r °{? e . d of a much greater and hap
pier change in their circurnftances. But in the
n.e"mav d" eVCry lnduftrious mechanic and far
in thevveelT ° f the land da >
The late extraordinary demand for the produce
of our country has given an extraordinary fpri„J
to the exertions of the cultivators of the foil—ln
duTe P s rK °, a he Uniced States one half the pro
luce of the last year, has been Town the prefent
fo that under the smiles of providence, there is *
P of the United States becoming the frra
nery of the world. h
The Pref,dent of the United States continues to re
cover his health very rapidly.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW. YORK.
Brig St. Jo2r and St. Joaa, Dwarte, Oporto.
Patty, Mallahy, Au\-Cayes, 26 days.
Carolina. Mead, Wilmington, 8 days
Schooner Willing Maid, Wallace, Cape-Francois, 2 o days
——New York Packet, Barnard, Boston, 4 days '
Sloop Charles, White, Norfolk, 4 days.
Leak. Fowler, Digby, 8 days.
Sally, Clarke, St. John'«, (if. B ) 10 days.
%LONDON, March 2
JOSEPH 11.
* | HE late Emperor was the eldest son of Ma-
A ria Thereia of Austria, eldest daughter and
heirefsof the Emperor Charles VII : and of Fran
cis Duke of Lauraine, and Bar. Francis was,
through the interest of his Consort, head of the
house of Austria, eledfced E»nperor after the death
of Charles VII, Duke of Bavaria ; who wascho-
J'en Emperor through rhe inteieft of France, 011
Dcmife of Charles VI.
Joseph, the eldcft foil of Francis antl Maria
Theref'a, was born on the l 3th of March, 1741,
and crowned King of the Romans, 3d April, 1764.
On the death of his father, the Emperor Francis,
he fuccefeded to the Kmpire in consequence of his
previons election as a king of the Romans. In
1780, he succeeded to the kingdoms of Hungary
and Bohemia, and in general to the whole Au
strian monarchy, on the death of his mother, who
had poHelled those dominions in her own right.
He was twice married, and had one daughter,
who died, before (lie was twelve years old.
He has left many brothers and filters ; his sur
viving brothers are Peter Leopold, now King of
Hungary and Bohemia, &c. who by his Queen,
daughter to the late King of Spain has fifteen
children living.
Another brother is Archduke Maximilian,
Eletftor and Archbilhop of Cologn, who, as a
clergyman, is of course, unmarried.
The third surviving brother is Archduke Fer
dinand, Governor ofthe Milanese, who married
the only daughter and heiress apparent to the
Duke of Modena, by whom he has two sons and
two daughters.
This Prince and his Consort were in England
between three and four years ago
The surviving filters of the Emperor are the
present Dutchcfs of SaxeTefchen, Princess of
Parma, the Queen of the two Sicilies, the Queen
of France, and one unmarried.
Archduke Francis, eldelt foa to the present
King of Hungary, late only Grand Duke of Tnf
cany, was the only one of his father's children
who had married, and by ibe death of the Arch
Dmchefs Elizabeth, his consort, he is left a young
widower.
This young ?rincefs>, who died a few hours be
fore the Emperor, and foou after having been
delivered of her firft child, was neice to the pre
sent Duke of Wivtemberg, and fifrer to the Prin
cess Consort of the Grand Duke of Ruflia.
On Thursday died, the Rev. Dr. Sainuei
Halifax, Lord Bilhop of St. Afapb.
At Toulon, afljort time ago, was launched the
Commerce de Marseilles, a fine ship of 120 guns,
presented to Louis the fixteentb, by the Mer
chants of Marseilles.
Her guns arc all on three decks, none on the
poop or forecaftle ; ami flie is so conftrudied that
her compleat broadside of Oxty guns, can be
brought at the fame time to bear on a iingle ob
j«di ; an advantage deserving the consideration
of those in whom, with us, the department of
conftru&ing men of war lies.
There has lately been discovered, in the neigh
bourhood of Hexham, a curious cave, in a rock,
elev en feet by eight, within, and the roof support
ed by a stone pillar : Farther in the rock is ano
ther apartment, nearly of equal diuienfions.
There is great reafptj to believe this to be the
recels of the uniortnnsflc Margaret, of.
Henry Vltl}, after the battle of Hexham, in 146 a.
Philosophical readpis miglit Ife ainukii by the
following circunjftance. A medjeal gentleman
at Brentford, in digging a we'll some time ago,
■went near 300 sees without finding any water ;
at last, however, some trace of a spring was dis
covered, and on boringfome farther, itaf
cended witli great force, a|}d flowed to the very
top of the weff. It is worthy of being further
remarked, that this water poilcfles a superior de
gree purity and foftnefs, to apy in the neigh
bourhood.
Extra'.7 of 1 letterf\(>m Farit, Fe'o. 2s.
" Last Monday Mr. Didelot made a second ex
periment ofhis liquid for resisting and extinguifli
ing fire. A wooden hut had been eredted in
Luxemburgh gardens, and filled with inflainable
materials. He firft set fire to some calks smeared
over with pitch, and when the flame blazed up
with much violence, he inftanfly put it out by a
lini-le squirt of his aftonifiling liquids Then,
mufUing himfelf up in a cloak, impregnated with
the fame liquid* he palled without injury through
the burning hut, and extinguifljed the fire by
means of a portable engine filled with anti-incen
diary liquid. Some fay it is a preparation of al
-1 tun -water It produces, however, the desired
efietfh Monsieur, tVe King's brother, was among
the fpeiftators.
The Rev. Mr. Davies, who died lately atHere
ford, in the lojth year of his age, never used,
for the last thirty or forty years of his life, any
other exercise than that of flipping hjs feet 011 c
before the oLher, from room to room, and they
never were after 'that time raised up, but to go
down or up itairs. His breakfaft was a hearty
one of hot rolls and butter ; his dinner was a fub
ftanrial one of a variety of dishes, at least during
the carnival of every fummerat Lord Baten.ian s
feat at Shobden Court: at his fappcr he general
ly eat roast meat, and always drunk moderately
of wine. He had neither gout, stone, nor cholic ;
lived beloved by all v ho knew him, and died
without poflefling those disagreeable infirmities
which generally attend age. He was (as inoft
iong livers are) very fliort, not exceeding five leer.
VIENNA.
On tbe 3d of March, arrived at tlie imperial
Palace, in clijs cky, Peter Leopold, our new So
vereign, from Florence. His imperial Majesty
was received by the Great Chamberlain, and all
the late Emperor's Ministers, whom there is the
greatest reason to believe he will in
office, at for a time. After relting here a
few days, the Emperor will go into Hungary,
where }\e will be crowned with all poftible expe
dition. The Foreign Ministers are to have au
diences to-morrow j all the Royal Family now
here dine this day at Court. The hereditary
Prince does not accompany his father, but will
be herein the caurfe of the funimcr. The treaty
with the Ottoman Porte is at a hand. Couriers
continue palling to and from Peterlburgh as be
fore.
Mr Schmidt, Secretary to Mr. Brambilla,
has nnlde a lift of 3]! those who have been sick and
have died in thcAuftrian armies, from the ift of
june, 1 7SB, to the 31 ft of May, 1759 ; according
to which, out of 250,000 men, 172,386 have l>een
sick, and 33,543 which is 7 men out of
36, or rather better than a feventfc part of the
whole army, and above one fifth of the sick. The
inen killed in the engagements, (kirmiflics, sieges,
&c. are not included in this account.
To the MEMORY or Mrs .
CILENT I (bed a trihutary tear
O O'er the cold allies of a much-lov'd friend,
Whofefimple urn, Seraphic Peace (hall bear,
And at whose (hrine the white virtue bend
Ah ! who so chaste, so innocent as thee !
Who could iti durv's sphere so meekly move ?
Or if as fair, from Vanity as free,
So firm in Frirndftiip, and so fond in Love ?
Alas ! if I can thus her loss deplore.
That knew but half the virtues Qie poffeft,
What pang fe\ere His laboring bosom tore,
Who saw her fink, expiring on his breast :
With falling tears, bedew'd, her lovely face:
Imprinted kisses on her icy hand—
What time, what absence, can the scene efface,
What magic voice his rising sighs command ?
Oft would thefufferine angel faintly fmiJe,
When froo* her bosom pain had fore'd a sigh ;
And, would with patient Hope his fears beguile,
To check the tear that trerabl'd in his eye.
Veil'd arc thofc charms, in everlasting night !
And flown tbofe comfort*, he so laic poffeft ;
Her fpotiefs foul has wing'd its gentle flight,
By Seraph* wafted to eterna} reft.
New-York City Lottery.
SCIIEMK of a LOTTERY, for the purpose of raifin<; Seien T'm
find Five Hundred I'oundi, agreable to an ACT of the Legifla.
ture of the Sute of New-Yoik, paffcd Bth February, 1790.
SCHEME.
1
2
3
id
3°
5°
ISO
180
7.95°
1 PRIZE of
3
ID
3°
5°
8346 Prizes, ) . .
166.54 25CCO 1 ickets, at 40*. each, £.50000
Subjcfl to a dedu&ion of Fifteen per Cent.
of this LOTTERY being to raise a part of the sum
advanced by the corporation for repairing and enlarging the CI
TY HALL, for the accommodation of CONGRESS, which docs
so much honor to the ArehiteO, as wel\ as credit to the city. The
managers prefumc that their fellow Citizens -will cheerfully con
cur in promoting the sale of Tickets, especially as the success of
this Lottery will relieve them from a taxj which must othetwife
be bid to reimburse the corporation.
The above SCHEME is calculated in a inanacr very bendicial
to adventurers,there not being two blanks to a prize.
Ihe Lottery is intended to commence drawing on the First
Monday in Aucust next, or f.wner if filled, of which timel)
notice will be given. A lift of the fortunate numbers will be pub
lished at the expiration of the drawing.
Tickets are to be by the fubferibers, who arc appointed
Managers by rfae Corporation.
Isaac Stoi>t e nru n gh, Abraham Herrikc,
Peter T. Cuhtenius, John Pintard.
New-York, 6th 1790.
By Order of the Honoraile Richard Morris, EJj. CtieJ JuJltce oj th<
Stateoj Nni'York.
NOTICE is hereby given to Lewis M'Donald, of Connecticut,
an abfeut debtor, that upon application and due proof made
to the said chieifjuftice by a creditor of the said Lewis M'Donald,
burfuant to an att of the Legillature of the said State, entitled,
" An ast for relief abfeonding and a blent debtors," pas
sed the 4th April, 1786; he, the said chief jufticc, has directed
all the laid Lewis M'Donaldsellate, within this lUve, to be seiz
ed, and tjiat unless be shall discharge his debts within twelve
months after the publication of this notice, the fame will be fold
for the payment of his creditors. Dated the 3d May, 1790.
New-York, May-;, 1790. (»vv.i>.)
James F> Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59, to No. 187, Water-Strcet, near the
Hy-Market,
WHERE they negociate all kinds ofPUBLICK
SECURITIES—BILLS OF EXCHANGE. &c. asuiual.
yiH-Yo'A* A£i 1, 8, 1790. -tf,
464
March 7
/".3000
lboo
500
200
100
5°
20
10
4
£ 3°°°
2 COO
1,500
2COO
3000
2500
?400
1800
31800
EDUCATION.
THE remote fitmtion of Clinton Academy lias prevented
merits of its inltitution from being uthcreii into p-rblic v] ev .
while other Seminaries, not more productive, have received the
well deserved approbation of the public, from iHc jtift.
of the literati, who have conddcendcd to examine them.
not therefore, be amiss to He qu'arnt the uninformed that—-The
ing for this Academy was eredted »n 1784, "v a iivmber hi p- ; .
vat ■ gentlemen in Eail Hampton, on Lon^-IlUnri.
That it was done fpr the purpofc of promoting good
the neighbourhood —and ol extending the ot edacaiu.
so far as application for them fhotfld be made, fir ISc i*B,'
ihis Acad'-my received a charier of mcmpaffcriofi, and
ary 1788. !t was placed on the honorary eftabhthmfnt 0 | ,
branch of the umvcrfity. A confioerable number of voun»
tlemen have begun their clailical fli:dies he r e. end alreadv com
pieted thfm, in different college** a confideijrWe'number c*
now in colJtj**. and many more have fintfhrd a valuable (^| C ,
tion at this feminaty. The deper inents tor mifceHaaeousc<i
tion have been more generally improved. Inthefe, great num
bers have received, some benefit, and more than a few iiavntf
vanced to brilliant acquirement?.
These departments being, tor; he prefen'.committed to the r-..
nagement ot the Sub'criber, he isdeterrrined to recommefr}
to the Public by that good order and proficiency of the
which undeniably declare the merit?, of the Inftiiution. He con'
liders Tuition as aneflential parr of hi*employment; but, to ,
the voluntary attention of his Pupils be deems Kill more importdn
He will teach those who come only to be tiught, and, he wiJl a .
vail himfelf of every poflible advantage to jom \lk mnds of i'hq).
, who are sent ro be made Men, as well as Scholars. He is parties
. larly fenGble of the rierefTuyof good difciplinr.and 1* determine
at all events, to establish and fuppovt it ; but, is equally deter
mined to renounce corporal punilhinents, as an expedient for this
purpose, being.fully convinced that the ingenuous mind isbeftip.
Silenced by perfuifive motives; and that the most refractory h;s
some latent fenfeof honor and propriety.-which called forth
and properly directed, will better regulate the condudthin anv
... 1 .l: 1. _ f ; ..r»
corporal punishment which a Governor can infli&t , (
Kvery branch of common education will be taught iat[U|'
pan menu, with the addition of the French language;
pils will be carried to fuoh degrees of perfe&ion, in W&Ktki
required to learn, ai their time and gmrtirwitf
Particular attention ia given
Scholars, bj the Principal, the Rev. Mr. Bun l, wjtq dtUwjb
formi public prayers in the Academy, and gives evvySSmE
a le&ure in Theology. - ■
The claflkal department, though lately vacated, tytA MM
val of a* eminent Inftrufior, will be (Wonably (<Wpl>tiMl/a
tleman suitably qualified for the place ; unj tbofe »lm »Mlti
claißcal inArudinn, will be Regularly attended to, at ***** fljailrn
of thirty-two (hillings per quarter. ' ''
The price for lull tnuion, at public and private hours, it dn
English Academical department, ia tweaty-fix (hillings ptrtlH.
ter, exclusive of vacation*. There 3re appointed
in a year—each, three weeks, and they arc to coaUDOK*dbfct
week in April, and the fcrft week in Scptcmbet. For tVffT
mon School, viz. fix hours in a day,—only
Each fchohr who writes,pays threepence pel- quartH ftjfifiilj
and one (hilling per Quarter for the use Mboofcr
mifcellancous rir-partnvnts are completely! fortiflMi;
Good boardiug, iaclu&ve of waQtiog, ifc,
eight to ten (hillings per week; so that afcbolar firing MCltllilj
clothed, and birmftitd with Suitable utcnljli for
*rhote cxpences for a year, previd«H»e is abfertt■ dartriglMtfit
lions, may b« defrayed with iweoty-i w»p<aind»|<*tak*tfcfM
twenty-eight, accordingly aa it is cboCri) th*t,l)e
or accommodated. ""
haft Hampton, is well known to be a pleasant part of thr If
lind, and remarkably healthy. The conveyances by wattrw
and from New-York are regular and frequent; a con ft ant inter
course is preferred with various parts of the continent*
rcmoteneis of its situation is m6re than counterbalanced by the
tranquility of the place, and its conveniences for study. The laic
generous notice of the legiflatute of the state, in their valuable do
nation to the Ccminaries of learning, will undoubtedly add much
to the ufefulncfs ot this Academy.
The Subscriber will devote his time, and utmofl attention to
the business of Education here, during the present season, being
With great refpeft,
To the Promoters of Education,
Their moll obedient,
And moil bumble Servant,
WILLIAM PAYNE.
By Permission >
of the Principal. J
E*Jl Hampton, Mty 5, 1790.
OS>l o<p-i ttf-l 1^
§ CONTINENTAL £
§ STATE SECURITIES, 9
q BOUGHT AND SOLO,
y AT NO. 196. WATF R-ST R EET. J
C A generous price u.<ili be given for Military Rights cj Lani *•
J and Jt'fty fafir Money. ° May 4. y
t-CO
William Taylor,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIa GOODS STOKF,
3> Si'ien-Strut,
/ /Y Gene «'al Aflortment of EAST-INDIA GOODS,
Amoni; which are the following Articles:
BOOK Muslins S- 4 6-4 5 - 4 || HUMHUMS,
Jackonet do. || Lon-Cloths,
mnkerchiefs.of various kinds,-'j Gaffa<
I! Secrfuckers,
Gi.ghams, ,| B o. ? l,porr>.
A \ ariety of handsome painted MUSLINS.
With many other Articles, whiih will be fold by the Pi<xr*'
Package, low for cast.
A Morning School is opened,
by the Subscriber, for Young Ladies, at Harmony Hall, ad
joining the Baptills borving ground, in Gold Street. Hou:s ft
attendauceare from 6 till B.—For further particulars plcofe to en
quire of the Public's Obedient Servant, GAD ELY-
*'' '' The } dung Ladiu School which lias been kept at N° -
219 yueen-Strret, is removed to the abo\e place
New-York, May 8, 1790.
Moies Rogers, and Co.
TT AVE removed their STORE to the New Building, corntf
xt °» Golden-Hill and Queen-Street, fronting Burling Slip
new-York, May 5, 1790.
ASH, and a generous price given for Conti*
nrntal, New-HampiWe, Maffachufcitj, and Rhode-Ifli""
iecuritics, of every denomination, by
EBENEZER 'I'HAYLR, j„„. Nc . 59 ,
Ncw-Yoik, April 17, 1790.