PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN fENNO, No. 4 t, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 13, if Vol. 11. j
THE TABLET. No. CXVII
" Laughing is a proof, neither oj wisdom or folly."
THE editor, delirous to pay attention to
the efforts of his young correspondents,
does not scruple to publifli the following eflay,
•which was sent him by Ari stipes. Some alter
ations in theftile might have been made, which,
in the opinion of the editor, would have added
to the elegance of it. But A* every author
chufes to write in his own way, we communicate
ihe fenrinients ot Aristid£s just as lieexpreiled
them.
FOR THE TABLET.
NUMEROUS paflions have residence in the
human breast, and happy for mankind it
•would be if some of the more violent could be
restrained from so often breaking loose.—A very
considerable variety however is inanifelt in their
operations upon individuals. Whether this
arises from a different method of education—
some peculiarity of structure in the internal
and more delicate organs of our frame—or
whether the cause of this difference is to be
fought for in the mental faculties, are questions
I lhall not pretend to determine. Possibly it might
be found tiiat under an accurate investigation
this seemingly great diversity would vanilh, or
at any rate be considerably diminished—and
something similar to what we find in regard
to colours take place ; in which the proper mix
ture of a few original ones, that alinolt boundless
variety is produced.
I (hall not attempt to trace the different pa*".
Hons to their source, and endeavor to discover
thofc few original ones which may exist accord
ing to this lalt hypothesis—-but for the present
ihall confine myfelf to a few ohfervations upon
the risible faculty or pailion for laughter.—ln
this there is something peculiarly extraordinary
and to me unaccountable—because it is excited
by causes directly contrary to each other, viz.
aJSaBi ■ ■-tvaw'SCtToiis -aliicfa arc .r.»J«AIy decent,
and thole which are really contemptible and ex
ceedingly absurd— which perhaps would juftify
an allertion that it is not always indicative of
pleasing sensations—yet in chafing a partner for
thsnuptial bands, or thofeof friendlhip, acheer
ful is preferred to a gloomy countenance—the
reason for which is obvious, they are generally
supposed to communicate some what of the fame
cast to our minds. It is true the opposite paflion
partakes also in some measure of this feeiningly
two fold nature, there being tears of joy as well
as offorrow—ltill there appears tome a manifeft
contrail—as joyous teais are not only less com
mon but also of very short continuance—lading
only while the tenderness of heart is overcome by
an unexpected effulion of fatisfaction, which is
entirely evaporated when the mind is a little
composed, and recollection returns. —In the o
ther cafe peals of laHghterare repeatedly excited
and continued, not only by witty sayings but ac
tions very contemptible—How often do we fee
this palfion raifecl by little calamitous incidents,
such as a fall into a mud puddle, a fright or the
like ?—ls notlthe invention put to its utraoft stretch
in schools to devise tricks which when they succeed
raise the loudest roars ? But what feenis llrange
wecani.ot perceive the least difference in the feel
ings when the laugh is excited, whether it be by
wit or witticifnis, drollery or nonsense.
To admit this might not be relifiied by those
who possess this so much celebrated and frequent
ly desired faculty—if the effects are the fame,
which in u(l be the cafe, allowing the communica
ted latisfaction to be equal, it is reducing the
two characters of wit and drollery pretty nearly
to the fame level, though they are generally es
timated differently.—We find moll people pleased
with a joke, and you may discover many anxiously
treasuring up every little incident which they im
agine will excite merriment in the circle of their
ailociates—lt is surely commendable to pass at
lead part of our hours of recreation in inno
cent mirth, and to take some pair.s to entertain
the company with humorous anecdotes and sal-
Jies of wit, whether of our own invention
■quired from reading or experience. This is men
tioned as one of the circumOances which tended
to endear the company and enhance the conver
sation of our late illustrious and much esteemed
Franklin.
According to the foregoing remarks lie is the
molt defirablecompanion who has the best knack
ol railing a laugh—for I do not conceive that the
tlcfign of the molt facetious extends beyond the
WEDNESDAY, MAX 26, 1790,
acconiplifhment of this, nor do all the repofito
ries ot wit obtain more, if it be conceded that
every laugh produces afimilarity of feeling—and
this may Be boldly aflerted according to one of
the rules of philosophising so fully eflablifhed, by
which we are taught to eicpedl similar eflVdts from
similar caules,ana\indoubtcdly we may with still
more confidence look for it from the fame cause ;
yet however delirous perj -jis may be to excite,
ltill immoderate laugh tei gives a chara<ter for
levity—and the word is applied to ex
press the idea of the conduct of those whose ac
tions are far from being unexceptionable.—When
it isconfidered how frequently we are compelled
contrary to our inclination or rather intention to
laugh we cannot help wondering how we should be
pleased with abf'irdity and uonfenfe ; it mult be
some peculiar oddity which conferring a moment
ary pleasure is not able to encounter a serious re
trofpetfion. ARISTIDES.
On the GOVERNMENT tf our PASSIONS.
J.
SAY, Love, for what fiood end defign'd
Wert thou to mortals given ?
Was it to fix on earth the mind ?
Or raise the heart to Heav'n ?
11.
Deluded oft we (till pursue
Thr fleeting hlifs we fought,
As childrert chafe the bird in view,
That's never to be caught.
111.
O ! who shall teach me to sustain
A more than manly part,
To go thro' |i{>, nor fuffer pain
Nor joy to touch my heart ?
IV.
Tiion, blest inJiiTerence, be my guide,
I court thy gtntle reign ;
Wnen PafHon turns my (lcps
Still call me back again.
V.
Toch.mr To u'c. thro' Beauty'* art,
How oft its frapoinj** hide
A bafc, a lewd, a ireaehcroosfttaaTt.
Wi(h thiXiLnd ills befiuc. \
Nor let mygen'rous fonl give wr/ #
Too much to fcrve my friend* ;
Let reason still control tTieir sway.
And (hew wjre duty ends.
VII.
IF to mv lot a wife fliould hl! g
May Friend (hip be our love .
The pa (lion chat i« transport all
Does leldom lalttng pro e :
VIII.
If lading, 'tis too ?reat for peace,
The pleasure's ft> profufe ;
The heart can never be at ease
Which has too much tr> lose,
IX.
Calm let me eflimate this lifr,
Which I must leave behind,
Nor let tond paflions raise a ftrife,
To discompose my mind.
X.
When Nature calls, may I (leal by,
As rising from a fraft ;
I've had my fill of life, and wlay
Should I dtfturb the reft ?
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA.
The Senate's thanks, the Gazette's pompous tale,
With force refiltkfs, o'er the brave prevail.
This power has praise, that Virtue scarce can warm
Till lame supplies the universal charm.
THE result of the preceeding discourses is,
that avarice and ambition, vanity and pride,
jealousy and envy, hatred and revenge, as well
as the love of knowledge and desire of fame are
very often nothing more than various modificati
ons of that delire of the attention, confederation
and congratulations of otir fellow men, which is
the great spring of social activity. That all men
compare themselves with others ; especially those
with whom they molt frequently converse ; thole,
who, by their employments or amusements, pro
feflions or offices, present themselves molt fre
quently, at the fame time to the view and thoughts
of that public, little or great, to which every
man is known. That emulations and rivalries
naturally, and neceflarily are excited by fucli
comparisons ; that the moll heroic atfions in
war, thefublimeft virtues in peace, and the molt
ufeful industry in agriculture, arts, manufactures
and commerce, proceed from such emulations, on
the one hand, and jealousies, envy, enmity, ha
tred, revenge, quarrels, factions, (editions and
wars, on the other. The final cause of this con
flitution of things is easy to discover. Nature
has ordained it, as a constant incentive to activi
ty and industry, that, to acquirethe attention and
complacency, the approbation and admiration of
their fellows, men might be urged to constant ex*
465
No. VII
ertions of beneficence. By ihis .deftiuarion of
their natures, men of all forts, even those wlio
Rave the lead: of reason, virtue or benevolence,
are chained down to ail inreHaii t servitude to their
fellow. creatures, labouring without intermission
to produce foinething which fliall contribute t<»
the comfort, convenience, pleasure, profit or u*
tility of some or other of the fjiecies, they are
really thus constituted by their own vanity, Have*
to mankind. Slaves, I fay again : for what a
folly is it ? On a felfifh fyftein, what are the
thoughts, pafiions and fentimenrs of mankind to
us ? What is fame ? A fancied life, in others
breath. What is it to us, what ihall be said of
us, after we are dead ? Or in Alia, Africa, of
Europe, while we live ? There is no greater pos
sible or imaginable deluilon : yet the impulse is
irrefiftable. The language of nature to man in
his constitution is this, " I have given yon rea
'' son, conscience, and benevolence : andthere
" by. made you accountable for yeur aiftions,
" and capable of virtue in which you will find
" your highest felicity. But I have not confid
" ed wholly in your laudable improvement of
" these divine gifrs. To them I have fuperadded
" a paflion in your bosoms, foe the notice and
" regard of your fellow mortals, which if you
" pervei fely violate your duty and wholly lie
" gled: the part assigned you, in the system of
" the world and the society of mankind Ihall
" torture you, from the cradle to the grave."
(To be continued.)
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, MAY 10.
On the propaft 'ion to increase the duty of Tonnage, «/;
foreign bottoms.
MR. Smith, £S. C.] moved to strike out the
firft claufcof the report, which propol'edto
raifethe tonnage oil foreign built veflels to a dol
lar per toll, and gave several reasons in fopport
of the motion. Ihe mealure lie considered im
politic becaule it was injurious to theprimary in
terests of the United States, its agriculture, and
unequal in its operation ; because it would be
severely felt by some states, while it would be ad
vantageous to others ; it ought to be viewed ei
ther as a matter of revenue or as a bounty ; if the
former, it should be collected with an impartial
hand from each Hate according to its just propor
tion ; if the latter, it should be paid out of the
1 reafury, and not raised oil particular Hates.
South-Carolina would pay jp,ooo dollars, while
Aiaflachufetts paid only 8000, and Georgia would
pay 14,000 when New-Hampshire paid only 1200.
This was requiring the southern states to mate
too great a facrifice, and was imposing enormous
burthens on them for the exclusive benefit of the
eastern states; it was taxing South-Carolina and
Georgia to give bounties to Maflkchufetts and
New-Hampshire. Maffacliuftets having'fhipping
of her own would export her commodities at the
rate of fix cents per ton, while the southern states
whose produce was of a bulky nature must pay
100 cents : In addition to this advantage, Malla
chufetts would receive the fame freight for her
shipping as would be paid to foreigners, and a-4
this encreafed tonnage would immediately en
creafe the freight, Massachusetts would receive
for her shipping a higher freight than she does
now ; she would therefore derive numerous ad
vantages from the proposition, while some other
states would be exceedingly injured by it. South-
Carolina he said, was obliged to employ foreign,
shipping to carry off"full one half of her,crop ; this
encreafed tonnage would either make her pay an
encreafed freight, or would diminish the quanti
ty of foreign shipping 011 which she depended ;in
the one cale it would operate as a tax on exports,
which was againftthe constitution ; in the other
it would check the exportation of its produce,
and thereby materially affed: the agriculture of
the country which was its principal resource. He
was aware he should be told that this was the wav
to encreafe the American (hipping and to refcu'e
the exporting states from their dependance on
foreigners. Such an event was not likely to take
place without a convulsion ; commerce was not
easily forced from a channel in which it had long
run ; in the attempt those states must fuffer and
they were not at present in a condition to bear
it : Embarrafled with their debts, public and
private, from which 'nothing could extricate
them but a facility of exporting their prodinfti
ons, they were not in a humour to make expe
riments ; this was one of a dangerous nature ;
0
[Whole No. 117.]n was encountering an immediate and certain evil for a remote and
uncertain benefit; The navigating states had already obtained
from CongTefs cor.fiderable favors more than either the manufac
turing or the agricultural states had received; their vessels paid
on y 6 cents while foreigners paid 50 ; even when fold to foreign
ers tney P a 'd only 30 cents ; they had a monopoly of the coasting
tra e and the East India trade, and goods imported in American
ottom- were lent it led to a discount of 10 per rent on the duties.
K ? by natMrC cver y advil >t»gc 'n to'P building ; they could
it i. nC t^lf * UTn * n Europe, they
a all the materials for building and equipping at hand, and yet
1 °n r ,C "° l at ' B^pd but were f° r further benefits ;at
iealt they should wait to learn the etfeft of the laws passed last fefli-
? n s ;• there were no documents to shew whether
\° C k ' ' ncrfa^e dthe American fhippwgor to what amount,
T iev had not been in operation above nine months, and it was an
extraordinary proceeding to double the foreign tonnage without
anyother ground thana petitionfrorrt some merchants inPortfmouth.
~ a , t . cr r ,nt juiry should be made, it should appear that notwith
,.an cv ery thing which Congress had done for securing to the
niud «S ates the carrying trade, our own (hipping had not in
crealedinthe proportion exre£led,it might reasonably be inferred
t at other circumflances thanthofe to which it was attributed ,oc
-08 Aiccefi, and that iucreafing the foreign tonnage
■would not remedy the evil ; if on the other hand it should beafcer
f^3t mca '" urcs feflion had produced the desired
* fct, then anv further rcftri&ions on foreign shipping would be
"nneceffary. Whatever was the result, it would operate against
the proposed increase.
It the fa& however really was as the petition dated, that no ad
accrued to their (hipping from the measures of the
a l< luon. he was impressed with a ftrot»g conviction that their
lipping labored under disabilities not within the power of Con
gre s to remove. It was not improbable that our merchauts in
general, other had not fufficienr capital to engagr (erioufly in the
carrying trade, or were not disposed to encounter the hazard of
t iat species ofcommerce. A merchant at Boston who should pio-
A° (l ° co * lccrnpd * n the carrying trade between Charleflon and
have capitals and connections at both thofc pla
tes : His property being thus divided, would be cxpofed to
greater rifquesthan if it were all at Boston under his immediate
controul : at least he would feel more fatisfa6tion in this crfe, and
any trifling loss might induce him to relinquish such extensive con
cerns, and tocontraft his capital to a ftnaller fphcre : This might
»e one reason why our citizens were cautious of embarking in the
carrying trade; another might be afligned ; some of the exporting
states were accustomed to particular commercial habits adapted to
their local circumstances and their immediate convenience; they
v ere f ci pplied at proper seasons with such commodities as were
imred to their wants, and the nation which fupplicd them, not
ot:ty allowed us an exfenfive credit, but received our produce in
exchange; the vessels which brought the necefTary supplies, were
JCady to take away our produ&ionj, and the merchant who fold
the former would naturally employ his own vessels to export the
latter. Ihe only mode of supplanting these foreign merchants is
to imitate their condufl ; without it, said Mr. Smith it is in vain
to load their shipping with enormous duties; such a step wll on
ly distress us and depreciate our produce,without securing the car
ing tra de to the Eastern Rates. The true policy of the Ulll ed
«■ latps was to encourage its agriculture and facilitate the '■xportdti
on of its produfls—this measure would have a different tendency.
I n ion at home and peace with all the world should be our mot
to, because they would ensure prosperity to this country ; but the
proportion if earned into operation, would occasion diiunion at
home, and might induce a re'aliat on by foreign powers, and in
volve us in hoftililies. The dates which would fuffer by this re
itriftion on foreign (hipping,of which theyftoud so much in need,
would consider it as unjust and calculated to promote the interests
of «»:her flares at their exprnce : In this point of view, he difap
prov<d highly of the measure, for it did not hold out to the dif
ferent ftrrs that equal pr )te£liodto wh'ch by the eonftitution they
wctc entitled. At any rase the "pi>.pofed increase was prematwre
and they had not fuff.cient information to warrant so very enor
mous an addition to the foreign tonnage.
Mr. Sherman observed that the rifolutions had in view two
objects; one to encourage the carrying trade, the other to encou
rag» fh p building. To give due encouragement to the American
carrying trade, he thought it would be expedient to lay the fame
impofnions on foreigners coming into the ports of the United
Star s, as were laid on citizens of the United States going info fo
reign ports. Encouraging the carrying trade, in his opinion,
"would operate as an encouragement to ship building, because
owning American built ships should be an object to foreigners
vvho traded with the United States, since thereby they would mak<
a considerable fuving in the tonnage ; the resolutions proposing
to add no additional tonnage on American built (hips, tho' owned
by foreigners.—He thought that tonnage would not op'raie so un
equally as the gentleman from South-Carolina had imagined.
Should its operation be unfavorable to any particular State for the
present, yet the geneial benefit of it would (oon pervade the whole,
and like water would find its own level.
Mr. Goodhue made some remarks on the importance of the car
rying trade, and said that the decline of that business was owing
to the reftri&ions imposed by foreigners 011 the shipping of the
T uited States. In his opinion, therefore, it was neeeffary to m. et
them in this refpeft upon an equal footing, and place the ship
ping of the United States in the fame situation as then s. Beyond
this he did not wilh to go. Confidenng the ability of our coun
try to build ships, he thought that branch of business ought to be
encouraged, as it was a point that in a very essential manner, con
cerned our neareflinterelfs.
Mr. Williamfon laid, the question was of importance. He did
not think it proper that one part of the community should be
burthened for the ben? fit of the other. Suppose a particular Stare
Jhould pa\ Bor 10, coo dollars a year extraordinary for the pub.
lie good, it would mofl certainly be proper to adopt some me
thod of refunding the lum paid over and above its proportion,an 1
then the burthen would be equalized. With refpett 10 the poli
cy of encoin aging American vessels he viewed the matter in a dil
- light from what the gentleman from Carolina did. Whei
he mentioned the encouragement of American shipping, he con
feffed his ideas did not extend to a navy. He thought that period
flill very remote when wc should be' al le to cortiend with the Eu-
Topean powers on ttie watery element. He hoped, he said, Ame -
ricans would never so far loft fight of their own interest as to bur
then themfelvcs with the expence of a navy ; confidcnng'our (i
---tuation, rathe* let us endeavour to make the mod of the produef
of our country. The farmer who earns his bread by the sweat ol
his brow, if his induftty procures him more than he wants for his
own support, he ought to have markets to go co, and every pofli-
He opportunity thrown in his way of making the mot of his pro
perfy. By permitting foreigners to carry our produce for us m
order to pay for the fine goods they furnifli us, wr have to raise
snore from tne foil by one third than if we carried it ourselves.
The exports from some dates confia of bulky articles; and thV
transportation of lumber to the Wefl-ludu s in foreign bottoms con
fnmes 50 per cent. of the cargo. It is ufuul for a man to fill a vtl
fel lumber, and thr n give on'. half for the carrying of thf
other: so that one half of the property goes out of the count r v
neverto return. In particular, too, with regard to tobacco : Th.
value of a hogftiead was about 25 dollars, the freight to Europe 8
dollars, so that the freight was verv near pr r cent.
He mentioned these particulars,' he faid,to (hew the disadvan
tage of fuffcring foreigners to be the carriers of our produce. Mr
Williamfon then read a statement of the annual exports of North-
Carolina, and the shipping employed in carrying off tfye fame.
When it was confidercd what a prodigious proportion of our pro
duce went irrecoverably into the hands of foreigners by Uicir bc
mgour carriers, it was highly necefTary to take some meafurrs to
counteratt such abuse. And he hoped the citizens of the United
States would one day or other be the foie carriers of their own
produce. For it was to the carrying trade that nations owed their
wealth and consequence, and experience had shewn that he that
carried the produce finally became the"owner of it. The gentle
man from South-CaroMna (Mr. Smilh)had said, that the operation
of the present tonnage ast had either tended to encreafe liie fhip
pmg, or it had not—-if it had increased it, then enough was done ;
if it had not, then the failure was owing to some other cause, and
the raising of the tonnage would not effe& the defircd purpose.—
To this he begged leave to reply, that the tonnage might be com
pared to a great weight; it was either moved or not, if it was
moved and not lifted, then there was only more strength wanted ;
if it was not moved, then it became necefTary to have recourse to
the mechanical powers of pulfies, levers, See.
Mr. Smith then observed, that if gentlemen went upon th
the principle of increafmg the tonnage after they had set it in mo
tion, that they might perhaps go to the length of 2 or 3 dollar-.
T he gentleman had compared it to a weight, when we hid ro: the
lever under it, all we had to do was to lift. But it app-ared to
him that we had no lever under the weight, and that we are striv
ing to raise it without one, end may continue ftnvin<r till w<
break our backs. If a person should taloe a dofc of medicine, he
asked whether it would notl:e pj-oper to wait till he saw whether
it operated or not, before he (hould take another ? The fact was
Congrefshad not time to fee the operation of their measures : But
a few mouths had elapfrd since the tonnage a& had begun to be in
force. The propoftd refolutjohs put him in mind sick mm.
who was informed by his pUyfipan that if he could takehalfa p -n
of medicine every day sos <ir months, that it would r store him
his health. The man then reamed thud : Half a pint a d-iy of this
potion will make me well in fix mom s ; but a pint per day for
three months is equal to half • pint for fix months—Ergo, a pint .1
day for three mouths will cure me J
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTA iV£S.
MONDAY, MAY 24, 1790.
bill for the relief of Thomas Jeilkins,
■L and Co. and the bill foreftablifhing the Ju
dicial Courts of the United States in the State of
North Carolina, were read a third time, and palled
the House. r
The amendments proposed by the Senate to the
resolutions refpefting the arrears ofpnydueto
officers and soldiers of the Virginia and North-
Carolina lines of the late army, were taken into
consideration.
Mr. Lawrance informed the house that the fpe
cillations in this business had nor originated in
New-York—that he had been informed the whole
amount,purcliafed by persons here, is about 2600
dollars—that the speculations in Virginia and
North-Carolina, had taken place previous to the
appropriation, and to a much grater amount —
lie mentioned,thefe fadts, hefaid, to do away the
aspersions which in the course of difcufiing this
business, had been thrown out against this city
He was of opinion, that it would be belt to disa
gree to the amendments, and let the resolution
lie tor turther con.; ration.
Mr. \\ illiani (ori ! Ihe hoped the house would
agree to the allien. rnts, as in cafe of noa-con
currence the refoh ,tis would be loft—and he
was firmly pei luaded that it isnecellary that some
thing (hould be done.
Mr. Blood worth made fomeobfervations in re
ply to Mr. Lawrance.
Mr. Ames observed, that as there appears to be
a contradiction in refpeft to fatfts, and as the ie
folutionhad been opposed on ce tain principles
which had not been controverted, he wished the
amendments ffiould lie for the present, and made
a motion accordingly.
-Mr. Vining opposed the motion.
Mr. Sedgwick supported it.
Ihe vote being taken the motion was loft —
The amendments were then ag.eed to.
In Committee of the whole on the funding bill.
9th Sedtion Under consideration.
This appropriates so much of the revenue from
Inipolt and 1 onnage, as may benecefihry to pay
the interest on the domestic debt of the United
btates, agreeable to the principles of the bill
Ml r ur r 7 obr f rved ' that the provision fo'r the
non-subscribers, by the bill, does not include in
terest as ,n the cafe of fubfc. ibers. He moved an
amendment to make such provision. He observed
that thisclaufe as it now {lands, conveys the idea
of compulsion, to a much gieater degree than
without it—whereas the only difference 'which
has been contemplated is, a priority inpayments.
bM A-? - 7, some S e nt"emen, that the
bill did virtually make this provision.
1 he motion being put, was negatived.
Mr, Boudinot then moved that 'lieclaufeftiould
be made definitely exprefling the word " prin
Pal, agreeable to the sense of the committee
as now declared """itcee
Mr. Sherman moved an amendment to this a
mendment, to providp forifluinga Certificate for
/bribers' "t 1 V"* 1 °f the I 7 9 r, to non fub
were whhdTaw?. n,oU ° nS ' aftCr 3 ft ° rt difcuffion >
Mr. Heifter moved an amendment refpeftina:
he non-fubfcnbing creditors, by which thef
ihouldreceive their interest " fromand" during
n 'f n a ' 17 9 - This was objected to as eftabliih?
r Kr' n -l" ent: for P a y>"g the interest to
them 11 at 6pr cenr - which is giving
them advantages over the fubferibers— where J
Lir;T en,pl ? redb ' the bill r <> fund the de!
vde f° K ° U fubfc| i b er S _the } are to be pro
filed on'th a " m,al & ' * mS Some debate en
nithJd b«!ngp„ t „„
466
Section 12, refpe<fls the appointment of com.
miffioners in the ieversl States.
Mr. Steele moved that the fetftion fiiould be a
mended, by adding the words—to reside at
This motion was loft.
Mr. Williamfon moved, that the clause which
empowers tl*e Secretary of the Treasury to an.
point the reqnifite number ofClerks to each Coin
niiffioner should be struck our This was car
ried in the affirmative.
The committee went through the bill as
| far as the 12th section, and made several finull
amendments. Atthe end of the twelfth fetftion
Mr. Gerry said, he rose to mike a motion, which
was to ini'ert a clause for the assumption of the Stitr
hots. Sir, (said he) when this que ft ion was be.
fore under consideration, a gentleman from Vir
ginia urged a variety of arguments againlt it. but
ai lie did not come forward with his arguments
till near the time of adjournment, there was 110
opportunity <>f replying to them. Sir, his argu
ments appeared to a number of gentlemen to be
unfounded, and to require not only invcftio-jtion
but coiirradUflfortj Since that time the houlehave
called for documents from the Secretaiy of the
T-eafu-y, from the Secretary at War, "and the
Com niffi'Hiers for fettling the public account?.
It is reasonable to fupoofethat the arguments for >
afl nnption would derive new force fro a thefepa
psrfc, if any additional force was wanting. As
far as concerns myfelf, however, I wish not to en
ter into a difcudidn of the individual exertions
of the States, if it C3n possibly be avoided. In mv
! view, every state has obtained an ample share of
! honor, in .he public caofe, wirli which they ou<;ht
! to be fatisfied—nor is it my wish to reflect more
honor on one State than another. This, however
he thought might probably betheeffeciuf an in
vestigation of the papers, although he hoped the
necessity offuoh an investigation would be pre
vented by an acquiescence of the committee in a
motion which he would make, and which was
founded upon principles of conciliation. Should
it be attended with such consequences as these, if
would indeed be a happy circumstance—and in
that expectation he begged leave to submit it to
the confidpration of the committee.
It is not at all iny wish, however, (continued
Mr. Gerry) that the committee should decide
haftilyon my proposition—it shall be moved, and
then lay on the table to afford gentlemen an op
portunity of examining it, and making up their
minds thereupon.
. Gerry then read the following as his inO'
tion :
AND WHEREAS a provifirn for the debts of the refneflivt
e-> by the United States would be greatly conducive to an or
aer y, »o4 efte'im? rrjnjnwnt of A.-roMie fc-nm.
CCS ; would tend to an equal diilribution of BmTVnTTrnoSFtKF
cit'ii-ns of the several dates : would promote more general juftict
>0 it different claires of public creditors ; and would fervetogive
additional (lability to public cicdit: And whereas the said debts
having been essentially contratted in the prosecution of the late
war, ii >s just that such provifiou should be made.
therefore furthtY entitled, That a loan be also propofedto the
amount of the laid debts, and that subscriptions to thefaid loan be
received at the fame time anc* places, bv the fame persons, upon
1 r a^ C lCr,ns ' the fame optionito the fubferibers, as in
refpeit to the loan above proposed, concerning the domestic debt
I, United States, fubie& to the exceptions and qualifications
hereafter declared.
And be U further enaclcJ. Th.it the funis which ftiall be fubferibed
to t it said loan, shall be payable in the principal and intereftof the
certificates, which, prior to the day of lafl, were
k ü byth< ' rcfp?6five states, as acknowledgments or evidences of
e t by them refpeftivelvowing ; and which shall appear by oath,
or in regard to a known Quaker, by affirmation, to have been the
propertv of an individual,or individual s, or body polifc, other
than a state, on the said day of 1-ft. Provided,
at no greater sum shall be received, in the certificates of any
ftatc, than as follows, that is to fey,
In those of New-Hampftnre,
In thofc of Maffachufctts,
In those of Connecticut,
In those of New-York,
Intho'eof New-Jersey,
In those of Pennfylvauia,
In th. fe of Delaware,
In those of Maryland,
Inthofeof Virginia,
Inthufeof North-Carolina,
In those ot South-Carolina.
In those of Georgia,
from" th e'ien' ° k no / L " h ccrt 'ficate shall be received, which
mem 'hereof or from any public record, ,£* or" docu
wv du?L r 3P T r ' ? rcanbc ascertained to have been iffucd for
vices or funnt r J compenl,„on 5 and expenduures for ser
vice, or fuppl.es toward, the prosecution of the late the
I which ih ''\/\ lrt>l ' T '"j"' l "^' lat 'he '"tcreft upon the certificates
the laid lm " pa y mcm of 'he fumsfubferibed towards
: nclufivJv ' i bcc ° m P«*d to the last day of the year ,791.
c Si'™ hl [ ' l tl, V nlmlt u P° n ,hcftock which (hall be
crur nrid'n Th" ' 0an ' a " comme nce Or begin to ac
ter \ 'rlv » C »i.ft day ol the year 1792, and (hallbe payable <]uar
ontLftA'i u C times, and in like manner as the interest
tic Heht '' *° r C T crCf ' by virtue ot the said loan in the domef
on nne th'* A C ""ed States. Provided, always, that the interest
cord in tr (nth °i i re fp e^'ve '""1! which may be fubferibed ac
fnlif ■ ■ ■ C 1 ? 'h rc e options or alternatives upon which
to I , U r' > " onS |' T1 c C „ n,ac ' e 35 aforefaid, (hall commence or begin
H :T'! he firft da V of the /«' '799-
t V n f"' l ier '""fled, that if the whole of the sum allowed to
(lull Ln , ' n th e debt or certificates of any state as aforefaid,
furh ft\ rv, u°i. Cr whin the time for that purpose limited,
," a 11 b = "'"led to receive, and (hall receive from the
much of Ih/r' j r rate n° f . four per "ntum per annum, i)pon so
r t . C f U L m ' 38 not ave keen f° fubferibed, in trust
™In!?! non u 'n s creditors of such (late, to be pa.d in like
t ' 1 , e , lnte 011 ' he flock which may be created by vir
< 3 l Qan » 4 to continue until there (hall be a settlement
ot accGunts between the United States and the individual rtates,
orovT?™l, J n a ' Lnce '^ n appear in f.vor of s U ch state, unnj
provmon shall be made for ihe said balance.But ascertain ftate«h»verefpeftively iflued their own certificates |
in exchange for those of the United States, whereby it might hap
pen that interest might be twice payable on the fame sums.
Be it therefore further evaded, That the payment of interest, whe
ther to ftatcs or to individuals, in refpefl to the debt of any (fate,
by which such exchange (hall have been made, (hall he suspended
until it (hall appear to the fatisfaftion of the that certificates
iflued for that purpose, by such (late have been re-exchanged or
redeemed, or until those which (hall not have been re-exchanged
or redeemed, (hall be furrendcred to the United States.
And be it further enaded, That the faith of the United States be,
and the fame is hereby pledged to make provifion,before the 3d ot
March, 1791, for payment of interell on the amount of the (tock
arising from lubferiptions to the (aid loan, upon the like principle
with the provision herein before expressed, touching the loartto be
made in the said domcftic debt of the United States ; and alio for
the payment of the said four per centum per annum on lo much
of the said debts of the refpeftive dates, as lhall remain unfubfer 1-
bed to the said loan. .
And be it further enacted, That so much of the debt of each (late
as (hall be fubferibed to the said loan, lhall be a chatge against
luch ilate in account with the United brttrs.
And be it further mailed, That the commiflioners to he appointed
as atorefaid, lhall have the lik.e powers and authouties, and lhall
perform the like services and duties in refpeft to the said last men
tioned loan, as in rrfpe£l to the one firlt above propoled, relatively
to the (aid domeilie d bt ot the United States.
Mr. Lee said, he had hoped that the advocates
of this measure would have fuffered the commit
tee to have proceeded in the business before them,
■without interrupting it by attempting to unite
thisfubjetft with another, which has been repea
tedly declared to be different in its conftruftion.
He thought it would have an inauspicious aspect
on the public counsels—would delay, it not en
tirely defeat, an objetft of the greatelt importance,
and on which the public expeiftation is exceeding
]y engaged—lt will revive all those recrimina
tions, and invidious dilliniftions, which have al
ready created so many disagreeable sensations.
He hoped the gentlemen would not urge the con
joining a business which is in its nature so diftinrt.
He therefore moved that the Committee should
rife, and report the bill. He should not, he laid,
object to the bringing in a particular bill upon the
fubjetft : The pi opofed amendment is lengthy
and complex, said i e, it will require a lengthy
difcuflion, and can with more advantage be at
tended to, when taken upas a separate objetft.
Mr. Sherman observed, that the design of this
amendment is to make provillon for a class of ci
tizens equally meritorious with any others in the
United States—should the bill pass without pi o
viding for them, some of the States will be whol
ly unable to do it, and others of them cannot
without burdening the people with very opp'ef.
five taxes—it will be leaving the State creditors in
a totallydeftiture situation. He did not wiih that
the committee should immediately take the pro.
position into confederation —lie was in favor of its
laying on the table, that the committee might
take time to reflect upon i..
M r . madr some oKurvatinnt ltmilar
to those offered by Mr. Sherman.
Mr. Fitzfimons said he was in favor ol the As
sumption, asmuchas any man whatever—-Hill he
thought it belt to finifh the bill now before the
committee, and maketlieallumption theobjetfiof
a particular bill by itfelf. He thought this would
be a saving of time, and that those who ad"ocated
the connecting it with the pre sent bill, would find
that the greatelt difiiculties would attend piole.
cuting it in that connection.
Mr. Ames observed, that as many observations
Jiad been made 011 the propriety of taking up this
subject in connection with the present bill. He
thought it lieceflary that some notice should be
tuken of them.
He observed, that the present opportunity ap
peared to be the only one, of taking up this buli
iiefs—for if the bill now before the committee
Avail be cotnpleated, without including the 'af
faniption, itwill then be objected that the fund
ing fyttem is finifhed; and drawing near the close
of the session, it is very improbable that anything
will be done.
Adverting to the report of the Secretary, he
observed, that it is evident the Secretary considers
the afl'umption as an eliential part of. plan, toi
his part he could form 110 idea of a fy'tem wi. h
nut ic—Gentlemen have been repeatedly callet.
upon to explain their ideas on the ftibjeOt ; they
have not done it; they have not pointed our the
funds they mean to appropriate to their object.
They have not told us what part ofthe funds ap
propriated by the states they mean to invade.
The idea of bringing in a separate bill he conlt
tlered as absurd. It was forming two funding
fjitenis—making two bufinefles out of one and
encreafing the perplexities of each—-rendei :ng
that coni])lex and intricate, which might be Am
plified and made pcrfevftly easy and intelligible.
Mr. Fitzlimons and Mr. Hartley made some ob
servations in reply to Mr. Ames —and objected to
connetfting the aflumption with the present bill.
Mq. Parker after oblerving that if the propo
iiiionnow offered by Mr. Gerry, is added to the
Vill he should be for rejecting it altogether—mo
>cd that the committee should l ife and repoit pio
f,refs. This motion being agreed to, the Committee
rose; but before the chairman could make report,
Mr.Gale moved in the House that he should le_
port particularly how far the committee had P 1 *"
- eed-din the foil]—and that the committee should
be (lifcharged from any further jronfideration o
jbe fame.
Mr. Page seconded this motion : He observed
that the committee had discharged their commis
sion, which was to provide for the public debt—
the lad l'edtion of the bill had no neceflary con
nexion with the preceding parts. He objected
to Mr. Gerry's propositions, as informal, as tend
ing to obftrucft the pall'age of the funding bill, &c.
Seine difcnflion took place refpetfting the pro
priety of inftru&ing the committee in the House,
to report differently from the fenfeofthe motion j
made ill committee—wliich was, that the com
mittee fliould life, report progress, and alk leave
to set again.
Mr. Boudinot, in particular, enlarged on the
impropriety of precluding the advocates of the
adumption from replying to the observations ot
the gentleman trom the southward, who ipoke
the fall on the fubjed—He said the idea of pre.
venting a free and tull difcullion, is not conliil
ent with candor, fair-dealing,_ and the rules of
the House. The debate was continued with ar
dor on both lides. In opposition to the commit,
tee's fitting again, it was said the assumption has
been t\yice rejected- that it has a tendeny to ex
cite heats and animofities—tJjat it will be pro"
trading the public business, at>d in the issue, oc
casion alofs of the funding fyfteni altogether.—
In favor of the committee's fittting again it was
said that the observations of gentlemen, opposed
to the Assumption, had gone out into the world
unanswered, and unreplieJ to —that in conle
quenceofthe very extraordinary and unfounded
aflertions made by a gentleman from Virginia,
papers had been called for, whicli contained
itatements that the advocates for the alfauip ion
uean to make ul'e of; The bujinef/ of assumption
has received a different-determination at. differ
ent times—the friends of the measure may bring
forward such arguments in its support as may con
vince a majority of its propriety and expediency.
Mr. Gale having withdrawn Jiis motion—it was
determined that the committee have leave to set
again. Adjovirned.
TUESDAY, MAY 25
In committee of the whole bonCc on the ruidin ▼ bill.
Mr. Seney in the chair.
Mr. Gerry's proposition for the aflnmpiion of the State debts |
was read—This proposition was advocated by Mr. Sherman, Mr.
fioudinotand Mr. Ames—who severally entered info a full dif
cuflion of the fubje£l of assumption, aud replied particularly to
the observations ot Mr. M difon.
No member lifing immediately after Mr. Ames, and the chair
man being about to put the question, Mr. Sedgwick after premi
sing a few observations r efpr&ing the probability that Come other
g ntlemen would wi(b to cxpreis their minds on the fubjefl—in
order to allow them an opportunity to do it, moved thai the
committee Ihould rife. Mr. moved an amendment to this
motion, by adding that the chairman ihould leport, " that tiie
committee have gone thiough the discussion of the 1 2 firft fcftiors
r»f bill, *nd 'hat tfcrr be any further cons'-
deration thereof.'*—This aintnlmffli oc£.a(toiied coofiderable de
bate—an appeal was made to the chair whether it was in order;
the chairman gave it as his opinion that it was ; an appeal troin
the judgment of the chairman was made to the committee, who
confirmed the declaration— 3a members rising in favor of the af
firmative; some further debate enfucd ou the *dea which had been
fuggefttd of taking up the business of aflumption in a leparate bill
—Mr. Smi h (S. C.) moved an amendment to the amendment pro
p->f-d by Mr. Gale—which was to strike out what relates to dis
charging the committee—this motion the chairman declared was
not in order. —The question being put on Mr Gale's amendment
[ it was carried in the affirmative.
The committee then role, am 1 . ihe chairman reported " that
Irv had Rone through the difcutlion of the twelve full fe&ions of
.Vie hill making provision for the public debt of the United States.'
The question whether the committe (hould be discharged was
prevented from being takrn, by an adjournment's being cal.cd for
— Adjourned till 10 o'clock to-morrow.
TOR THE GA'/.ETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
DR. FRANKLIN
COLUMBIA weep ! Thy ftudiouj sage is dead,
Who taught to turn the Thund. r from thy head ;
The Sage, to wnoin Heav'n gave the envied lor,
To livt* helov'd, *nd ne'er to be forgot ;
Tho oft lerremhT'd, ftil! as often blest,
Foi toils efidur'd that thou in pcace might reft.
Nor (hall the philosophic Sage alone, i
Bltrfs Fb a nk l 1 n's name for light on Science thrown ;
The humble houfewife will hit mein'ry love,
Who cur'd her chimney by hi* ufelul Stove :
Not to the splendid wn his thoughts confia'd ;
All arts are great that benefit mankind.
Hswidc, his deep icfearclies, lift the foul,
And teach weak manajl nature to coutroul :
Nor lefshis Maxims form for lowly life,
The thrifty hnlband, and the fiu ;al wife.
Urth. F,rr, Water, Air, tonfefs'd.tj'rt power—
Nor could Ti me (leal from FaAkKilN one half hour j
But fore'd by Industry, liis tribute brought,
And ftilleach moment for his honor wrought ;
Crown'd him at last with never-fjding tame,
Then foic'd bv Fate—reroov'd him whence he came.
STOCKBRIDGE, May 17, 179°-
THAT Liberty is eflential to happiness, that
without itjLIFE LOSES ITS RELISH, AN D B E G O M E S
insipid the wisdom of thewifemuft impel them
to acknowledge. So mistaken however have been
the true principles of this most inestimable blef
finer that in aiming to obtain it, many have
plunged into a worse (late of slavery than that
from which a fortuitous concurrence of events
(as they conceived) have releafcd them. Per
haps hi'ftory furni/hes not a single instance of a
people, for any length of time continuing to
enjoy the bleilings of freedom, under the admini
ibation of a government composed of but one
467
branch. Experience lias evinced, both In tlie old
and new world, the benefits derived from a go
vernment composed of three branches, with pro
per checks upon each other. -In all govern
ments, diftinctious, in some degree, will exist,
and the idea of perfect equality mult, with
every judicious and candid mind, be viewed as
chinietical, except mankind revert back to a Hate
ofnatuie. Merit claims a diltin&ion ; nor would
any law, which the utmost stretch of human in
genuity could fabricate, prevent popular refpedk
from being paid to characters whole talents and
exertions had promoted in an eminent degree the
public weal, it has been customary in delpetick
governments, however, frequently to eliablifh
diiliniftions upon uo other briis than regal favour,
and these have been very improperly made here
ditary. This has been the cafe in braii-c, the
National Allembly of which are about ly aooliih
all distinctions, orders, and privileges, at one
stroke, (if credit may be given to late foreign
intelligence.) This will be deemed by many
rather too precipitate a stroke at this period of
tlieir affairs, and indeed, unwise at any period ;
for, as we lia\ e before hinted, dlftiniftions ist
always exist in every government. Were the
National Aflemblj of France to abolifii l'uch dis
tinctions among them as are hereditary, and by
degrees go oil to eradicate other evils engendered
by defpotifin, the probability would be in favour
of theii eftablitbing a government calculated to
support and defend the just rights of human na
ture. But, asat this early stage of their progress,
they have seized on the potleiiions and p-operty
of the clergy, (to the amount it is said of 4 00
millions livies) who are a numerous and power
ful body—as ihey have in fadt taken all power
from tlie King, and transferred it to a single as
sembly—as they are about to abolith all orders,
diltinliions and privileges, it is very much to be
doubted whether the fnnihine of peace will long
continue to illumine their hemisphere, notwiih
flanding European accounts mention that aiFairs
at present wear a peaceable al'pedf. Ihe King,
it is evident, makes a virtue of necellity, and his
party is not inconiiderable, though doubtless they
find it inoft wife at present apparently to concur
in sentiment with a majority of the National As
sembly. When this Afi'embly shall rile, we are
of opinion a new scene will open to the v.ew of
the world, very different from that which the body
of the French nation expert. It is lincerely hoped,
however,that this opinion is founded in error,and
that a conllitution of government will yet be
formed to secure the freedom and liappinefs of
France.
NEW-YORK, WEDNESDAY, MAY 26
By European accounts it appears that the courts
of Spain and Portugal are exceedingly solicitous
co prevent the contagion of the French influenza
from fpi eading among their fubjedts. Their ef
forts will however prove fti vain—they may as
well try to exclude the light of the Sun. The
rays of knowledge have pervaded the former of
those kingdoms. The arts and sciences within
a few years have been encouraged in Spain Se
veral valuable publications in history, l;i»s and
philosophy have appeared.—Knowledge to.fetters
the human mind—the sweets of property a. e but
half enjoyed, while in fecuce—thefe reflections are
inseparably connected with every encouragement
that arts and manufactures receives The Clergy
of rhofe countries appear to be the dernier rtfort
ofdefpotifn,but the time is fait approaching when
the meridian splendor of truth & right reason shall
dilfipate the dark mists of error—when those,
long bound in the prison house of blind bigotiy ;
shall spring to " light t liberty, and life.'''
Extra! of a letter frum Liverpool, to* Gentleman in Kingjlon Jamaica..
" Mi. Wilberforce has muttered all his forces for another at
tack on the trade ; they are very fangulne, and go again for a total
abotilion, The Prelbytcrians are in commotion about theteft act.
The miniller will have enough to do this fcflion. I have been
told that if these two points are carried, an attempt will be made
to equalize the Clerg?, and to pluck them a little ; nay, they even
go so far as to fay, there is a wi(h to annihilate the whole bench of
Bishops.
" I cannot-fay whether this be from a spirit of liberty or not,
but there is some deep laid fcherae imi.njH the Prefbyterians.aJTif
ted by their brethren of America, to diifrefs this country, if pos
sible, to the aggrandizement of their own."
The holy flame of liberty is kindling in Britain—it is laughable tn
h'ar british letter writers charging Americans u>itk fomenting dijlrejfes
in their country—they have only to cross the channel for the example
jihich has ajfetiei thfir citizens.
On Saturday lafi happened a very melancholly accident in this city. A
d lughter of Captain Hamilton, in Crown Street, an amiable girl of near
fist/en years of age, went with her brother in her arms fen infant ojtwo
years old) into the fteepte of the New Dutch Church, withtn a f mail di
stance of her father's dwelling koufe. Unfortunately, when /he had
afcendtd as high as the fourth fliry, and inadvertently treading upon
(one toofe boards, they gave way, aud both came to the pavement /lochng
/v bruised, and the girl with part of her scull beaten in. The latter died
inflantly, the infant survived about three quarters of an hour.
We hear it was moved in the Senate of the United States ob Monday
lajl that when Congress adjourn, thty adjourn to the City of Philadelphia.
The President ot the United States is so far recovered that hfc
rode out in his carriage on Mondy last.
ARR.TALS SINCE OUR LAST. —-NEU'-YORK-
Biig Princcfs Ann, Richardlon, Leghorn, 77 days.
Schooner Three Sillers, Marfchalk, Curracoe 21 days.-
Royal Captain, Houston Grenada, 22 days.
Experiment, Coram Port au Prince, 17 days.
Sloop Ranger, Allin.St. Croix, 13 days.
Polly, Dodds, Charleston, 8 days.
Dauphin, Mills, Bsham», 13 days.'DUBLIN, March 18.
YES 1 ERDAY,his Excel], the Earl of Weftmore
land, went in state to the House of Peers,
and gave the Royal aflent to the'following bills,
viz. The great money bill, the mutiny bill, the
hawkers and pedlars bill, the doffee bill, the bill
for the advancement of trade, the malt bill, the
tugar bill, the linen-trade bill, the French trea
ty bill, the stamp duty-bill, the tobacco-trade
bill, the bill to amend the law relative to regis
tering freeholders, and the bill relative to The
guard ianfliip of Roman Catholic children. Kis
Excellency was accompanied in the state carri
age by the Marquis of Waterford, and the Earl of
liroglieda.
The Right Hon. the Speaker of the House of
Commons made the following excellent speech
vefterday at the bar of (he Houfc of Peers, on
prefentiug the bills above mentioned.
" May it pleai'eyour Excellency,
" Every year's experience since 1785 has fliewn
the wisdom of the principle which the Commons
then established, of preventing the accumula
tion of the national debt. Und.T the influence
of that principle, public credit has risen so high
as to admit of an increase to the finking fund by
a confidei able diminution in the interelt of the
public debt. Private credit too has felt its salu
tary effects,and the advanced ftateof both has gi
ven vigour to indultry, and a steady aid to mer
cantile exertions.
" We now fee our commerce extended to a
degree unknown in any former time ; our agri
culture encreafedeven beyond the molt sanguine
expectation, and our linen manufacture risen
largely in its value. Such is the present pro
fperonsfituation of this country ; and we behold
it withmore fatisfatftion, because it has not ari
sen from temporary or accidental circumstances,
but has proceeded in a steady and regular course,
from a wife system uniformly adhered to, from
a confidence of the nation in a continuance of
that system, from the security given to private
property against the violence of outrage, and a
bfcve all, from that content and peaceable fub
miilion to the laws without which no kingdom,
however blefled in tfonftitution, climate, foil, or
fitnation, can be rich, powerful, 01 happy."
LONDON, March 28,
FRENCH COMMERCE.
The Committee of Agriculture and commerce
mi France havepropofed to the National Aflenibly
the following Decree relative to the privileges of
Ute East India Company, which was ordered to be
printed.
The National AlTembiy, considering that the
liberty of the sea is ihe universal tie of nations ;
that lhackles on commerce tend to check genius,
and throw a damp upon industry ; that the system
»f monopoly, while it gives strength to a small
part of the body politic, leaves the greatest part
torpid and inert ; decree as ;
I. The exclulive privileges of commerce to In
dia and china, granted to a company by the Arrets
df Council of the I 4th of April 1 785, and the 27th
of September 1736, are hereby revoked.
11. From henceforth every Citizen of France
ihall have free liberty to trade to India, China,
and all other places, contained in the exclusive
privileges of the company, without the necessity
of any pafiport or pennifiion, provided always the
Ordinances and Ediifts of the Admiralty be at
tended to.
111. All veflels employed in trading to India,
China, and other countries beyond the Cape of
<iood Hftpe, shall, by a pafe, certify their return
at Port L'Orient.
IV. All commodities of the growth of India
.and China lhall be liable to a tax of fire per cent.
ad valorem ; and thofc of the growth of the Illes
of France and Bourbon, to a tax of four per cent.
V. The India Company lhall be exempted from
such tax on all commodities and merchandize ly
ing in the Company's warehonfe at L'Orient ;
and also on those merchandizes imported from
India on the account of the Company.
PROTECTION OF THE MEDITERRANEAN.
Extrafl of a Istttr from Madrid, March 3
" The King our Sovereign, after having iri vain
remonftratetl with the French Councils without
success, has made a resolution to take upon him
felf the preserving the free and independent navi
gation of the Mediterranean seas for the year
iyooatleaft, and has for this purpose ordered,
besides the (hips from Malaga and Barcelona,
four men of war to be equipt immediatly at Car
thagena, which is to compose a third detached
squadron of observation, for proteifting the sea
coast, traders, &c. The deranged state of the
French government has a wonderful eftert in the
cabinet of this country."
ANECDOTE.
In inflrudting the Dauphin to read, the de
claration of the rights of man has lately been
employed. A few days ago the King aiked him,
whether he recolle<fled any thing he had gone
over ? " Yes, (said he,) father, I understand, by
what I have read, that men are equal, and that
every Frenchman is a man aS well as tnyfelf."
This is very true, fiidthe King.—" Then (repli
ed the Dauphin,) how is it that I hear the con
trary ailerted by such and such people," naming
several of the dignified clergy, dukes, counts, &c.
" 1 pri'thee, father, order that in future they
may be taught to read ill the declaration of the
rights of man."
HALIFAX, April 22.
Yesterday the House of Ailembly met accord
ing to their adjournment. His Majesty's Council
sent down the appropriation bill with sundry a
mendments. The House conceiving they had
no right to amend a money bill, threw it under
the table, and proceeded to form a new bill, with
sundry alterations.—which being also fcnt up for
the concurrence of the Council, was soon sent
down with amendments. The House then chose
a committee to confer with a committee of the
Council on the fubjeft, from which corference
it appeared that tile Council were determined
to abide by their amendments of the bill; and the
House appearing equally determined to abide by
their bill without any alteration—the bill ; was
again sent uj»to th._ Council fortheir concurrence.
After some time haii elapsed, his excellency the
Lieutenant Governor came to the Council Cham
ber, and sent a meflage to the House requiring
their attendance. The House accordingly at
tended, and the speaker read and presented to
his excellency the 7th articles of impeachment
against the Justices of his Majesty's Supreme
Court, which the House had framed out of 10 of
the articles of charge that were originally brought
before them.
His Excellency then gave his aflent to all the
bills which had been agreed to by both Houfcs,
except the bill for limiting the duration of the
aflembly to 7 years. The reason afligued by his
Excellency for refufing his aflent to the latter bill
was its being contrary to his initru<stions. After
which his Excellency was pieafed to prorogue the
general Aflembly to the 15th of July next
Previous to the House being called np to the
Council chamber they had made choice of Isaac
Wilkins & Elilha Lawrence Efq's, to go to Eng
land, and alio prepared inftrudlions for them.
Extrafl of a letter from Quebec, Feb. 1790.
" The polls we consider as the key to the fur trade—from which
trade Great-Britain detives'her principal revenuein this province,
though it is not alwavs equally productive.—This objrft is great
ly coveted by the people of the States ; but whenever it ihall fall
into their hands, ihey will be very much difappomtcd torafpi
r't of rivallhip will lead adventurers into such fchemcs if compe
tition, and out bidding of each other, as will eventually ruin the
trade—and as to any advantage it would be to their government,
I can conceive of none.—Our merchants under the ftrifleft regu
lations tliat our government can impose, are often fufferers by their
fpeculatious in this buGnefs. With refpeft to rclioquiihiiV the
p*A>4 fee no fymtom o. t. M
■ r-' u.'.".
PRICE BVHRENT. XEH'-YOXK.
JAMAICA Spirits, 5/3,5/
Antigua Rum, 4 jt). a $_/.
St. Croix, do. 4/4.
Country, do. 3f.
MolafTet, 2/2.
Brandy, 7/.
Geneva, 5/!
Do. in cases, ii§f.
Muscovado Suj;ar, Bos a J if.
Loaf, do. ifs.
Lump, do. i/i£.
Pepper, 2/7 2/9.
Pimento, a ]j 4-
Coffee, 1/3. I^4.
Indigo, (Carolina) 3f a 6f.
Do. French, 18/. 1 of.
Rice. 2sf. 14J.
Superfine Flour, 64 f.
Common do. 58f.
Rye do. 26/! a zSf.
Indian Meal, 18/! 2of.
R ye, ■5/ Pr. bu/h.
Wheat, iif. a 12f.
Corn, (Southern) \f.
Do. (Northern,) $f a 4/g.
Beef, firft quality, 4ft\f.
Pork, firit quality, 80s
Oats, 2/2.
Flax-feed, tjf
Ship bread per cwt. aif24 f.
Country rehned ) 01 .
bar-iron, { 281 " « 3 ol '
Do. bloomerv, 251. a 261.
Swedes do. 451.
RuflTia do. 301.
Pig-iron, 51 \cf a 91.
German Reel, gdf.pcr lb.
Nails American, by cask.7 ',*d m
per. lb. 4d. \
Do. do. do. 6d. i2d.
Do. do. do. Bd. 9£d.
Do. do. do. tod.")
Do. do. do* i2d.f . , 01 ,
Do. do. do. 2 od.r 7 S« aB S«-
Do. do. do, 24d.)
Pot.ash, per ton, 391. & 401.
Pearl ash, 481 a 501.
Becs-wax per lb. 2f.
Mackaiel per barr. 26f. a 3of
Herrings, 18/ 16/
Mahogany, Jamaica, > ,
per foot, J
Dominico, do. gj.
Honduras, do. yd.
Logwood unchipped,pr.;on. 81.
Do. chipped. 141.
2 inch white oak > . _
plank, perm. £ * XO J'
1 inch do. 51.
2 inch white pine plank, 81.
ij inch do. 61. \of.
x inch do. 31. \of
2 inch pitch pine do. 101.
468
MAY s6. Don a»i at Bs.
Do> 22 inch do. i!. (,/.
Do. 18. inch do. jßf
Bull white oak llavi-s, viA
Pipe do. do. g|.
HogAirad do. do. 61. to/.
Do. do. heading, 81.
Irith barrel do. ftavesj 31. 5/
Hoglhead red oak do. «|. «/,
Do. Krcnch do. 51.
Hoglhead hoops, 4!.
Whiteoak square timber >
per square foot, J lo< '-
Rid wood, per ton, 201.
Fullick, sol.
Beaver, per lb. 12f a 16/
Otter per (kin, 9/. 3*/
Grey fox, 4 _/ 7 .
Martin, 4JIO.
Racoon, 3 fe a 7/6.
Mulkrat, 10i. a 14^.
Beaver hats, 64 f.
Caflor do. a%[
Chocolate, 14^.
Cocoa, 70s. a 80/.
Cotton, i/g.
Tar, pr. bar. 12/.
Pitch, 14J,
Turpentine, j8). a to/
Tobacco,Jamet River, 4a. 0 \\d.
Do. York, 4d. a
Do. Rappahanock, id a 3JI/.
Do. Maryland, coloured, $id.
Do. Western-shore, id a 3W.
Lead in pigs, pr cwt. 60/f
Do. 68/
Do. Shot, 68/:
Ked lead, 68/
White do. dry, g!i f
white do. in oil, 5/. , j,r
Salt-petre hams, 7 irf.
Spermaceti candles, 3/
Mould do. nd. a i/
Tallow dipt, 9Xd.
Soap, s d. a Bd.
Castile soap, 91i. a iod.
English cheese, pr. lb. i*d.
Country do. grf. 6d.
Butter, iorf.
Hyson tea, 9/6. a iqT
Sequin do. 6/6.
Bohea do. 2/6.
Ginseng, 2/ a 2/6.
Starch Poland, yd.
Snuff, yJ'j.
Allum fait, water mea- >
sure, pr. bulh. J 36/
Liverpool do. 2/
Madeira vrine, >
pr. pipe, J " 9°'.
Port, 46/.
Lifbop, pr. pal. i.t
Teneriff, 4f ' J
F y»». a/3-
EDUCATION.
! r remote situation of Clinton Academy has prevented tj
X merits of its inilituiion from being ufhcred intp public view*
while other Seminaries, not more productive, have received t} '
well deserved approbation of the public, from tiiejuft
of the literati, who have condelcended to examine tftem. It can*
not therefore, be ami is to acquaint the uninformed that the buil T
ing for this Academy was erected in 1784, by a number oi P V *
vate gentlemen in Kali Hampton, 011 J-on«-IflUnri. '
That it was done for the piirpofe ol promoting good learning
the neighbourhood—and of extending the bleihngs of education*
so far as application for them should be made. In the ye?r - -g.'
this Acadcmy received a charter of incorporation, and in
ary 1788, it was placed on the honorable eftablifhnieru 0 f *
branch of the umverlity. A confidcrable number of younc r *
tlemen have begun their claflical lludies here, and already ea
oleted them, in different colleges; a coofidejable number T"
now in college, and many more have finifhed a valuable
tion at this feininary. The departments for mifcellancou^ rduca*
tion have been more generally improved. In these, great nu
bers have received some benefit, and more than a few have d*
vanced to brilliant acquirements.
These departments being, forihc prefcnt, committed to them,
nagement ot the Sublcriber, he isdetermined to recommend th
to ihe Public by that good order and proficiency ofthc Scho' C ° l
which undeniably declare the merits of the Institution. H ■
( fiders Tuition as an eflfential part of hiseinploymeut; bm tii °°"
the voluntary attention of his Pupils he deems dill tnorc tm'poi/T
He will trach thoie whocome only to be tiught, and, he w U
vail himfelf of every polTible advantage to form the minds of t(i6fr
who are fint to b* made Men, as well as Scholars. He is pirt
larly fcnfible ofthc nfceffity of good discipline.and , s determined'
.at all tvenu, to eftablifti and iupport it; but, ij equally dt n !
mined to renounce corporal puniihments, a*an expedient fonhij
purpose, being fully convinced that the irygenuous mindishrftin
fliienced by jWrfuafive motives; and that the mod refratfnry has
fume latent fenfeof iionorand propriety, which being called forth
and properly direfled, will better regulate the ronduft than any
corporal punilhment which a Governor can infli£l.
Every branch of common education will be taught in tliefe de
partments, with the addition of the French language; and the Pu"
ptls will be carried to such degrees of perftflicm, inwhatthw
are required to learn, as their time and grniut will admit
Particular attention is given tothereligioua improvement ofthe
Scholars, by the Prinr.pal, the Rev. Mr. Bu ef. i., who daily per
forms public prayers in the Academy, and gives every Saturday
a lecture in Theology.
The claflical department, though lately vacated, byther-rao
v of an eminent InfWlor, will be ft*fonablv fuuplied by acre."
tleman fuitubly qualified for the place ; and t'hofe who apply for
cliflicai inftriiftrtin, will be regularly attended to, at the ufoal raw
of thirty-two fiitlhngs per quarter.
The price for full tuition, at public and private hours in the
Eng.ifh Academical department, is twenty-fix fliillin.'s pcrquar
ter, cxclufive of vacations. There are appointed two vacation."
in a year-each, three weeks, and thev are to commence the firft
week in April, and the firft week in September. For the com
mon School, viz. fix hours in a day, -only fourteen fliijlmn.
tach scholar who wntcs.pays threepence per quarter for his ink
and one (lulling per quarter for the use of books with which the
milcellaneous departments are completely furnilh d
Good boarding, inclusive of walhing, & c . may be had from
eight to .ten (hillings per week; so that a scholar being properly
clothed, and furnifhed with Citable utenfUs for his bulincfs- hi»
whole expences for a year, provided he is absent during the vaci
tions, may be defrayed with twenty-two pounds; or from :hitto
twenty-eight, accordingly as it u chosen that he (bould be tauiht
or accommodated. b
tact Hampton, is well known to be a plea£tr» par: oi the If.
laud, and remarkably healthy. The convcyapee' bj wate>«>
.md Ifom Nt w-York <ic ' **■ 1 r — —™— —-
courfc is prefervcd with various parts of the continent, and the
rcmoteneis of its situation i s more than counterbalanced by the
tranquility of the place, and its conveniences for study. The late
generous notice of the legiflatuie of the ftate,in their valuable do
nation to the seminaries of learning, will undoubtedly add much
to the ufcfulnefs of this Academy.
The Subscriber will devote his time, and utmost attention to
the buAncfs of Edui ation here, during the present fcafon, being
With great refpe£t,
To the Promoters of Education,
Their mod obedient,
And moll bumble Servant,
Bv Permlfllon )
of* the Principal. )
Eajl Hampton, 1790.
§ CONTINENTAL §
§ STATE SECURITIES, §
<• bought and sold,
AT NO. 196. VVATER-ST R ERT. \\
r£TA generous price will be given for Military Rights of Land £
J and Jersey Paper Money. May 4. y
ocp-i
William Taylor,
Has for Sa#, it his KAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
A/- * » <T- No " 8 ' Q ulen -ST*IST,
Aflortmentof EAST-INDIA GOODS.
, Anv ,A m ""5 whlch * re the fo »owinjr Articles!
BOOK Muflms 8-4 6.4 5 - 4 (| HUMHUMS,
Jackonctdo. j Lon?ClothS(
Hinkerchiefs.of various kinds,|| Ciflii«
t Seerfurkeu, ' 1
Gmghamt. f Bo ? hp«„,
a vanety «f handsome pointed MUSLINS-
With many other Arricltj, which will be Coldly the
Package, low fcr ca(h.
and a generous price given for Conti
nental, New-Hamgfhire, Massachusetts, and Rltode-Ifla""
■ecurities, of every denomination, by
- T EBENEZER THAYER, jun. No. 50,
New-Yoilc, April ,7, i 79 q. ,J bJ '
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59 ,t0 No. 187, Water-Street, «»<*'
---.-j Fly-Market, ,
WHERE they negociate all kinds ofPUBLICk
SECURITIES— BILLS OF EXCHANGE. &c. asufual.
* ""-York, April 8,1790. if.
„ ar S e 'Mprtjfiou of this paper havttig h"?
H"-, f ram the commencement of the fecund vl '-
M- —Those v>ho incline to become fubfc^ trs
comp] t "*** be furnifhed with th numi' r '
WILLIAM PAYNE.