PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN F£NXO, Ko. 4 x, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK,
INf>. 9, (/Vol. II. J
LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.
PUBLISHED
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT' THE SECOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the city of New York, on Monday the fourth
of January, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
An ACT for the Punishment of certain Crimes
againlt the United States.
BE it enabled by the Senate and House of Reprejentatives of the U
nited States of America in CongieJs ajjembled, That if any person
or person?, owing allegiance to the United States of America, {hall
levy war*againft them, or shall adhere to their enemies, giving
them aid and comfort within the United States orelfcwhere, and
lhall be thereof convi&ed, on confcfTion in open court, or on the
testimony of two witnesses to the fame overt a£l of the treason
whereof he or they shall stand indi&cd, such person or persons
lhall be adjudged guilty ot treason against the United States, and
lhall fuffer death.
And be it enafledj That if any persons or persons, having
knowledge of the commission of any of the treafonsaforefaid lhall
conceal, and not as soon as may be disclose and make known the
fame to the Prcfident of the United States, or some one of the
Judges thereof, or to the Prcfident or Governor of a particular
State, or some one of the judges or jufticcs thereof, such person or
peifons on conviction shall be adjudged guilty of misprison of
treason, and shall be imprifonid not exceeding seven years, and
fined not exceeding one thousand dollars.
And be it enacted, That if any person or persons shall, within any
fort, arsenal, dock-yard, magazine, or in any other place or dif
tri£l ot the folc and cxclufive jurifdi&ion of the
United States, commit the crime of wilful murder, such person
or persons on beirfg thereof convicted shall fuffer death.
And be it aljo enacted, That the court before whom any person
lhall be convi&ed of the crime of murder, for which he or ihe
<hall be to fuffer death, way at their dj/cretipn, add to
the judgment, that the bod) of such offender shall be delivered to
a surgeon for diflc£lion ; and the marshal who is to cause such sen
tence to be executed, shall accordingly deliver the body of such
offender, after execution done, to such surgeon as the court shall
direst, for the purpose aforelaid : Provided, that such surgeon, or
fomc other person by him appointed for the purpose, shall attend
to receivc and takeaway the dead body at the time of the execution
of such offender.
And be ?t Jurther enafled, That if any person or pcrfons (hall, af
ter such execution had, by force rcfcuc or attempt to rescue the
body of such offender out of the custody of the marshal or his of
ficers, during the conveyance of such body to any place for difTcc
tion as aforcfaid ; or shall by force rtfeue or attempt to rescue such
body from the house of any surgeon ; where the fame shall have
been dcpofited in pursuance of this ast •, every person so offending,
shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars, and
an imprifonmcnt not exceeding twelve months.
And be it cnafted, That if any person or pcrfons having know
ledge of the actual commission of the crime of wilful murder or
other felony, upon the high seas, or within any fort, arsenal, dock
yard, magazine, or other place or diftrift of country, under the
lole and cxclufivc jurifdiftion of the United States, (ball conceal,
and not as loon as may be disclose and make known the fame to
some one of the Judges or other persons in civil or military au
thority under the United States, on conviction thereof, such per
son or pcrfons shall be adjudged guilty of jmifprifon of felony,
and shall be imprisoned not exceeding thiee years, and fined not
exceeding five hundred dollars.
And be it enafled, That if any person or persons shall within any
fort, arsenal, dockyard, magazine, or other place or diflrift of
country, under the sole and exclusive jurifdiftion of the United
States, commit the crime of manslaughter, and shall be thereof
convicted, such person or persons shall be imprisoned not exceed
ing three years, and fined not exceeding one thousand dollars.
And be it emEltdx That if any person or persons shall commit
upon the high seas, or in any river, haven, bason or bay, out of
the jurifdiftion of any particular State, murder or robbery, or any
other oiTencc which if committed within the body of a county,
would by the laws of the United States be punishable with death ;
or if any captain or mariner of any ship or other veflel, shall p -
ratically and felonioufly run away with such ship or vefftl, or any
foods or merchandize to the value of fifty dollars, or yield up
such flop or vcffcl voluntarily to any pirate ; or if any fcaman fh. 1!
lay violent hands upon his commander, thereby to hinder and pre
vent his fighting in defence of his ship or goods committed to his
tiuft, or shall make a revolt in the ship—every such offender shall
be deemed, taken and adjudged to be a pirate and felon, and be
ing thereof convicted, shall fuffer death. And the trial of crimes
committed on the high seas, or in any place out of the jurifdiftion
or any particular slate, shall be in the diflrift where the offender is
apprehended, or into which he may firft be brought.
And be it enabled, That if any citizen shall commit any piracy 01
jobbery aforefaid, or any ast of hoflility aga nfl the United States,
or any citizen thereof, upon the high sea, under color of any com.
million from any foreign prince or state, or on pretence of authori
ty fiom any person, such offender shall, notwithflanxling the pre
tence of any such authority, be deemed, adjudged and taken to be
a pirate felon and robber, and on being thereof convicted shall fuf
fer death.
Arid be it rnaHedy That every person who fliall, either upon the
and or Teas, knowingly and wittingly aid and aflift, procure, corn-
Tnanc, coni)(el or advise any person or persons to do or commit
any niuidct or robberv, or other piracy aforefaid, upon the seas,
w uch lnall affect the life of such person. and such person or per.
ons lhall thereupon do or commit any such piracy or robbery,
then all and every such person so as aforclaid aiding, assisting, pro
curing commanding, counselling or ad-ifing the fame, either upon
tic land ur ihe lea, fliall be, and they are hereby declared, deernrd
WEDNESDAY, MAX 12, 1790.
and adjudged to be icceffary tojuch piracies before the raft, and
eveiy such person being thereof bunvi&ed shall fuffer death.
And h< it made J, That after any murder, felony, robbery, or
othet piracy whatsoever aforefaid, ii or fliali be committed by arty
pirate or robber, every person who knowing that such pirate 4r
robber has done or commilttd aiif fiich piracy otrobbery, (hall On
the land or at sea receive, rntenainer conceal any such pirate dr
robber, or receive or take into bik coftody any (hio, »effel, goodi,
or chattel!, which have been by fiiy such piratew r<jjber piratical
ly and felomoufly taken, fhillare
and adjudged to be acceffrry to "£>piracy orVobbtry, after ilfc
(act; and on conviAitui tho»\«^ < 3fc uf 4v» imprifeAird not exceed
"lg tlvcrycan, and Wd im ?
And be it enaSed, That if any toman or other person fltall'com
mit man-slaughter upon the higft 1 seas, or confederate, or attempt
or endeavor to corrupt any eomrtiander, inafter, officer or mari
ner, to yield up or to ru» away with any (hip or veflel, or with
any goods, wares, or merchandize, or tfl turn ■pirate, or to ao
oyer to or confederate with pirates, or in any wife trade wuh arty
pirate knowing him to be fuch.ro (hall r U rni(h such pirate wilhaif)
ammunition,ftores or provisions of any k'iod,or'<hall fit out any vel
fel knowingly and with a defignto trade with or supply or cor
respond wuh any pirate or robber upon the feaj; or if any per
son or persons (hall ways confute, combine, confederate or
correspond with »ny pirate or robber on the seas, knowing him
to be guilty of any such piracy or robbery ; 01 if any featnan Ihidl
confine the master of any (hip or other veflel, or endeavor to make
a revolt in such (hip;—fuch person or persons so oflcnd
'**gi and being thereof convicted, (hall be imprisoned not
exceeding three years, and fined uot exceeding one thousand <
dollars.
And be it enaffed. That if any person or persons, within any of
the places, upon the land under the sole and exclusive jurifdi&ion
of the United States, or upon the high seas, in any veflel belong
ing to the United States, or to any citizen or citizens thereof, on
purpofeand of malice aforethought, (hall unlawfully cut of the ,
ear or ears, or cut out or disable the tongue, put oui an eye, (lit
the nose, cut off the nose or a lip, or cnt off or disable any limb
or member of any person, with intention in so doing to maim or
disfigure such person in any of the manners beforementioned, then
and in every such cafe the person or persons so offending, their
counsellors, aiders and abettors (knowing of and privy to the of
fence aforefaid) (hall on convifiion, be imprisoned not exceeding
seven years, and fined not exceeding one thousand dollars.
And be it enaStd, That if any person or persons (hall falfely make,
alter, forge, 01 counterfeit, or cause orprocart to be falfely made,
altered, lorged, or counterfeited, or willingly a6l or assist in the
falle making, altering, forging, or counterfeiting any certificate,
indent, or other public security of the United Sutes, or (hall ut
ter, put off, 01 oner, or c»ufe to be uttered, put off, or offered in
payment or for sale any such falfe, forged, altered or counterfeited
ceuificates, indent or other public security ,with intention to defraud
any peifon, knowiug the lame to be falfe, alteied, forged, or
counterfeited, uil 'hail lie llicrewf couvi&ed, every such person
lhall lutfer death. * ' '
And be it enafled, That if any person (hall felonioufly deal, take
away, alter, ialfily, or otherwise avoid any record, writ, process,
01 other proceedings in any ol the cruris of the United States, by
means whereof any judgmcut (hall be rever(ed made void, or not
take efleft, or if any pei son lhall acknowledge or procure to be
acknowledged in any of the courts aforefaid, any recognizance,
bail or judgment, in the name or names of any other perlon or
peifoju not privy or consenting to the fame, every such person or
peifons on conviction thereof, (hall be fined not exceeding five
thousand dollars, or be imprisoned not exceeding seven years, and
whipped not exceeding thirty-nine (tripes. Provided neverthelefi.
That this ast shall not extend to the acknowledgement of an*
judgment or judgments by any auornev or attorneys, dulyad'-
mitted for any person or persons against whom any such judg
ment or judgments (hall be had or given.
And be it enaded, That if any person within any of the placet
under the sole and exclusive juriidiflion ol the Unfted States, or
upon the high seas, lhall take and carry away, with an intent to
(leal or purloin the personal goods of another ; or if any person or
persons, having at anytime hereafter the charge 01 custody of any
arms, ordnance, munition, (hot, powder, or habilimenta of war
belonging to the United States, or of any victuals provided for the
victualing of any soldiers, gunners, marines or pioneers, (hall for
any lucre or gain, or wittingly, advisedly, and of purpose to hin
der or impede the service of the United States, embezzle, pur
loin or convey away any of thefaid arms,oidnance,munition, (hot
or powder, habiliments of war, or victuals, that then and in eve
ry of the cases aforefaid, the person or persons id offending, their
counsellors, a : dcrs and abettors of and privy to the of
fences aforefaid) (hall on convi&ion be fined not exceeding the
fourfold value of the property Co (lolen, embezzled or purloined ;
the one moiety to be paid to the owiu r of the goods, or the United
States, as the cafe may be, and the other moiety to the informer
and prosecutor, and be publicly whipped, not exceeding thirty
nine llripcs.
Andbeit further enaSed, Thai if any person or persona within
any part of the jurifdiftionof the United States as aforefaid, lhall
receive or buy any goods or chattels that (hall be felonioufly taken
or ftolcn from any other person, knowing the fame to be ftolea,-
or shall receive, harbor 01 conceal any felons or thieves, know
ing them to be so, he or they being of either of the said offences
legally eonvi&ed, (hall be liable to the like puniQiment* as in the'
cafe of larceny before are prescribed.
And be it enaffed, That if any perlbn (hall willfully and cor
ruptly commit perjury, or shall by any means procure any peifon
t® commit corrupt and wilful perjury, on his or her oath or af
firmation in any suit, controversy, matter or cause depending in
any of the courts of the United States, or in any deposition taken,
pursuant to the laws of the United States, every person (a offend
ing, and being thereof convicted, lhall be imprisoned not exceed
ing three years, and fined not exceeding eight hundred dollan ;
and lhall Band in the pillory for one hour, and be thereafter ren
dered incapable of giving testimony in any of the courts of the U
nitcd States, until such time as the judgment so given against the
said offender shall be reversed.
And be it evaded, That in every presentment or indictment to
be prosecuted against any person for wilful and corrupt perjury, it
lhall be fufficient to set forth the fubfUuce of the offence charged
upon the defendant, and by what court, or before whom the oath
or affirmation was taken (averring such court, or person or per
sons to have a competent authority to administer the fame) toge
ther with the proper averment or averments to falfify the matter
or matters wherein the perjury or perjuries is or are afligned; with
out setting forth the bill, answer, information, indittment, de
claration, or any part of recbrd or proceeding, either inlaw
or equity other than Is aforefaid, and without setting forth the
commiiHon or authority of the court, or person or perfans before
whom the perjury was committed.
449
And be it further entitled, That in every pref.n mcni or indict
ment tor subornation oi perjury, or lorcomipt bargaining or
contracting with others to commit wilful and corrupt perjury, it
shall be fufficient to fct forth the irubluinge of tile offence charged
upon the defendant, without letting forth the bill, answer, infor
mation, indi&ment, declaration, or any pait of any recorrftor pro
c either in law or equity, and without letting forth the
commillion or authority of the court, or pcrfou or pcrfons before
whom the perjury was committed, or was agreed or promised to
be committed.
And be it enafled, Thar if any person shall, di reft ly or indire&ly,
give any sum or funis of money, r>r an* other bribe, pYefent or
re ward, or any profinifc, contract, obligation or feeurity, for ihe
payment or delivery of any money, present or reward, or dny o
ther thing to obtain or procure the opinion, judgment or decree
o. any judge or judges of the United States, in any fuit,controverfy,
matter or cause- depending before him or them, and fhaJJ be there •
oleonvideti, such person or persons so giving, promifins, con
tiacting or securing to be given, paid or deliveied, antr sum or
lums of money, prefeut, reward or other bribt as aforefaid, and
the judge or judges who shall in any wife accept or receive the
;ame, on conVi6tion thereof shall be fined and imprisoned at the
dilcretion of the court ; and shall forever be difqualified to hold
any office of honor, trufl or profit under the United Srate«.
And be it enafrcd, That if any person or persons, shall know
ingly and wilfully obfVru&, :efifl or oppofc any officer of the
l imed States, infervingor attempting to serve or execute any
inefne proccfs, oi warrant, or any rule or Order of any of the
couits of the United States Or any other legal or judicial writ or
process whatsoever, or lhall affauit, beat or wound auy officer, or
oilier person duly authorized, in fei ving or executing any writ,
jnle, order, process or warrant afori said, every person so know
ingly or willfully offending in the premises, lhall, on convi&ion
thereof, be imprisoned not exceeding twelve mouths, and fined,
not exceeding three hundred doll »rs.
And lie it further etiarfed, That if any person or persons, shall bv
orce set at liberty, or rescue any person who shall be fourld guiltv
or tieafon, murder, or any other capital crime, or rescue any per
on couvitled of any of the laid cranes, going to execution, or
uring execution, every person so offending, and being thereof
corded, shall fufter death : And if any person shall by force set
at liberty, or rescue any person who before convi&ion shall (land
committed for any of the capital offences aforefaid ; or if any per
son or pcrfons shall by force let at liberty, or rescue .any person
committed for or convi&ed of any other offence againii the United
Mates, every person so offending, (hall, on convi&ion, be f.- cd.
not exceeding five hnndrcd dollars, and imprisoned not exceed
ing one year.
11ovided always and be it enabled, That no convi&ion or judg
ment for any of the offences aforefaid, shall work corruption of
blood, or any forfeiture of eflate.
Andbeitenaftcd, That if any writ or process shall at any time
hereafter be lucd forth or profecutcd by any person or ptrfons, ia
any of the courts of tlie United States, or in an)' of ti?c courts of a
particular State, or by any judge or juflice therein
whereby the person cf any ambaffddor or other public minister of
any foreign prince or State, authorized and received as fucn hy ti c
rrefident of the United States, or any domestic or domeflic fer
va!?t°^any UC ani^a^JC^oror other public minister, may be ar
retted or imprisoned, or his or their goods or chattels be diilrain
ed, seized or attached, such writ or process shall be deemed and
adjudged to be utterly null and void to all intents, conftruaion
and purposes whatsoever.
And tc it enafled, That in cafe any pcrfon or pcrfon (hall Cue
forth or profccute any such writ or pioccfs, such person or per
iods, and all attornies or solicitors profecutin 4 or foliciungin such
cale, and all officers executing any such writ or process,
thereof convi&ed, ffiall be deemed violaters of the laws of na
tions, and difturbcrs of the public repof.-, and imprifoncd not ex
ceeding three years, and fined at the discretion of the court.
1 rmidcd ntterlhelejs, That 110 citizen or inhabitant of the Uni
ted States, who (hall have contrasted debts prior to his entering
S n'u' C nn f '" y am , bjffjdor or oth " P u blic miniflcr, which
debts (hall be still due and unpaid, shall have, take or r ceive any
U proceeded against by
v 1 tue of this ast, for having arretted or iued any other donicfhc
(ervant of any amhaflador 01 other public minister, unless the
name of such servant be fiift registered in the office of the Secre
h7,l°H A C a " u y t. y. Ch bcC,ctir >' lranfin,ttt d to tile Marffial of
he diftr.a in which Congrels (hall reside, who ffiall upon receipt
thereof affix the fame in some public place in his office, whereto
all persons may resort and take copies w.thont fee or reward.
And it itcnatied That if any person (hallviolate any fafe con
dutl or passport duly obtained and iffucd under the authority
the United States, or shall assault, ftnke, wound, unprifon, or m
to Ihe'ue'f 113 "^ Cr ' r vf^ e Uv offering violence
so. f,n« T ambadador or other public minifter,°fuch per
son so offending, on coiiviftion ffiall be iraprifoned not exceeding
three years, and fined atthe d.fcretion of the court "
A,fill Z h u\*" y pCrl ° n Wh ° """ he a « urc d '"d in
deed of trcafon, ffiall have a copy of the indictment, and a lift
til f r!|-fl witnesses to be produced on the trial for proving
the (aid indictment, mentioning the names and places of abode of
luch witnefles and jurors, delivered unto him at lead three entire
days before he ffiall be tried for the fame; and in other capital of
ences, ffiall have such copy of the in«lidtmcnt and lift of the jury
two entire days at least before the trial: And that every person so
accused and indiaed for any of the crimes aforefaid, ffiaU all "i t
allowed and admitted to make his full defence bycouufel learned
111 the law; and the court before whom such person ffiall be tried
or some judge thereof, ffiall, and they arc hereby authoiifed and
required immediately upon such peiKJn fuck
counlel, not "ceeding two, as such person ffiall dcf.re, to whom
luch counfcl ffiall have freeaccefsat all feafonabie hours; and eve
fL rt, pCrIO " S .f ccu,cd or indicted of the crimes afore
n,al' bc allow eo and admitted in his laid defence to make
any proof that he or they can produce, by lawful witness or wit
mires, and ffiall have the like process of the court where he 01 they
hall be tried, to compel his or their witnesses to appear at his or
their trial, as is usually granted to compel witnesses to appear ou
the prosecution against then.
itfurther enaflcd, That ifany pcrfon or persons be indifl
ed of trealon against the United States, and ffiall stand mute or te
f f° r .i, challen g e peremptorily above the number
of anvih °f i Jl i ry: ° r , a " y P erson ° r P crfons be ind.fted
ol any other of the offences herein before set forth, for which the
piiniffiment is declared to be death, if he or thev ffiall also (land
mute or will not aufwer to the indictment, or challenge peremp
tory above the number of twenty pcrfons of the jury ; the court
111 any of the cases aforefaid, ffiall notwithflanding proceed to the
-rial c.i the peifon or persons so (tanding mute or challenging,
accord,ni'l'7 P not guilty, and render judgmenitherw*
[Whole NO. 113.],Ax&lc itJurthfT e*nßti, That the benefit of clergy tail no*
It used or allowed, upon conviaion of any crime, for which, by
•iny statute of the United States, the pumfhmcnt 14 or shall be de
clared to be death.
Audit >t further trtißed, That no person or persons thall be pro.
Jccuted, tried or punished for trealon or other capital otfence a
jorefjid, will.)] murder or forgery excepted, unless tht indidl
ment lor the fame shall be found by a giand jury,' Within three
years next after the treason or capital sffence aforefaid (hall be
«one or committed ; nor shall any person be profceuted, tried'or
punilhed for any offence not capital, oor for any fine or forfeiture
unocr any penal ftatutr, unless the indictment or information for
«lje fame In .ill be found or instituted wuhift two years front the
time ot committing the offence, or incurring thefine or forfeiture
alofefaid -. Provided, That nothing herein contained ftiall extend
to any person or persons fleeing from justice.
And-te it further enaded, That the manner of inflicting the pu
inlhment of death, ihall be by hanging the person conv>aed by
-»he neck until dead. 1
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
. . Speaker oj the House oj Reprefevtatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the Untied States,
'"d Prejident of the Senate.
Apr*OVED, Anil THI THIRTIETH IJQO
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prekdent of the Unit,d States
rui COPY)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of Stmt.
THE TABLET.
*' TV advantage of study is often loft, by attending 10 too many
points at once."
Mr. Editor,
t AM so well pleased with a letter lately sent
i me by an ingenious correspondent, that I
■wish it may be communicated to the public, as a
number of the TABLET. It is on\a fubjetfl of
importance, and I hope the remarks of my friend
■will meet with approbation, as they appear to be
founded in reason and propriety.
FOR THE TABLET.
" probably know that I was admitted to
-1 the bar of our Courts in April i 781 ; and
certainly know that for a confiderablepart of the
time since, I have given my attention to philology,
.belles Lettres and ancient hiltory. Some part of
the tihie has been spent in travelling, and this
has been the inoft ufeful period of my life. You
know from a multitude of observations, how ma
ny errors in opinion and deep-rooted prejudices
grow up with the most vigorous genius, under
the molt advantageous fyilem of book education;
unless the person has an opportunity oftravelling
abroad. 1 frankly own this was iny cafe ; and 1
was two years abroad, before I could believe o
taer States as wife, as prosperous, and as happy
as my native State.
" I have finifhed my ramblings and set downin
my profeflion, in a place as healthy as North
America affords, on a public road, in a pleasant
fertile country, where commerce is flourifliin<r,
manufactures begin to thrive, and the company
ks as good as I deserve. Here I have reflected up
on the errors of my own education, and endea
vored to devise a better plan ; being rayfelf con
fident that I might have gained all my present
knowledge and learning in half the time, had
my studies and travels been conducted by a man
of experience and juit ideas.
" I have found by experience what my tutors
tfhonld have caught me, that the great error in
■our common method ofinftru<fting youth, is, that
■we permit them to read "without an objeit; that is,
•without 3.fpictfic particular object. We give them
a book to read ; and diretft thein generally to be
mailers of the fubjeA. But the object, in this
cafe, is so general, so indeterminate, as to make
little or no.impression upon the mind of the ftu
;dent. It is not particular enough to arrest his
curiosity ; or rather the indefinite view of the
object renders it iinpoliible for the attention to
be fixed upon any particular point. The person
who reads avolume of Hiftdry, or-Law, with this
.general view, loses three fourths of his labor.
" Toreadtoadvantajje, the whole attention of
a fttident jhould be called to one point at a time.
Let liim be diredted for instance to enquire into
the reformation in the lixteenth century, and at
a future day, to inform liis inftru<ftor, at what
time this great event took place, and what were
the particular political, commercial or other acci
dental circumstances which favored the progress
of it ; by what characters it was effeCied, and as- -j
terwards what were jts corifequences on the po
litical itaie of Europe. Let him then be directed
■what authors to examine, and the more he con
fnhs, provided they are of reputation, the fairer
chance he stands of finding and retaining the
truth. The student then would fix his attention
upon one objeiil ; the faifts as they iliould arise
to view would reft upon the mind and gradually
form a connected ltory, and the prospect of reci
ting the faifts to the inftru<ftor would impress
them uiore deeply on the memory. Thus the
student Ihould take every important era, event
or person by itfelf and enquire into the accounts
■which different writers have given of it; and not
read a book in course, as is done for ainufeinent,
or by persons reviewing their studies.
" If I fliould ever open an office for ftudentsin
Law, I could wifli them to prepare for this libe
ral study, by a year or two year's preparation in
the study of History. The common practice of
keeping them two or three years writing on
No. CXIII.
rJ" j
parchment, I consider, as an impofuionj wnsea
fonable and useless. Tlit forms of process may
as well be learnc in fix months, as in a longer
time ; and a student of law should be fotnething
more than a drudge. If Undents were previously
acquainted with Greek and Latin, 1 fhonld wish
them to read Herodotus, Thucydides and Xen
ophonj in Greek, and Livy, Casfar and Tacitus,
in Latin. The belt orators arid poets among
the ancients are read as clafiical books in our
colleges and schools ; but their historians, which
I deem the inoft valuable, are moltly negledled.
This is one of the modern errors of our public
education. Indeed To imperfectly do mod of our
schools teach the ancient languages, that few
of the ftudenrs can read the Greek and Roman
historians witheafeand advantage. For thisrea
fon, I should diredt them to take the bell compi
lations of ancient history jn Englifli, and diredl
them to attend to such parts of it as illustrate
the policy, manners, arts and literature of the
wife and celebrated republics of antiquity ; for
as to wars, they are the dry bones ofhiftory, and
a hungry man will hardly fatisfy his appetite
by picking them.
" In (hort I could wish that the flndies ofybuth
might be made to approach to pra&ice. A Jludcr\t
of history should read it, like the compiler ; lie
should take a (Ingle point of history, and consult
different jruthorities until he had made himfelf
master of it. A student of Law should read it
like an attorney ; he should take one point and
turn to his authorities for illustration, as if he
were preparing a cause for trial. I have found
this to be the only method in which I can read
to advantage myfelf; and perhaps my experience
may afford ufeful hints to others.
THE HUMANE HOWARD.
[The liberal and philanthropic are the denizens of at! countries—ar.d
from all countries are fntitled tc the tribute ofgratitude. J he benevolent
How a r vt—iohofe exertion« in relieving the prisoner bound in the dun*
" co . r ! arr) Violating the condition ojJervitude—and pouring the wine aitd
oil into the wounds r.ade by dife.ife, are as untvrrja/ly admired, as known
To his memory then are thefollowing lines dedieate'f]
ON HIS DEATH.
HOWARD, thy talk is done, thy mailer calls,
And fummonsthee from Cherson's diftjiit walls.
" Come, well-approved ! My faithful servant come !
No more a wand'rer, seek thy deftin'd home.
Long have I inark'd thee with o'er-rnling eye,
Ana sent admiring angels from on high,
To walk the paths of danger by thyGde,
From death to fbitld thee, and from fnarcs to guide.
MyminifUr of good, I've sped thy wjy,
And Oiot thro dungeon-glooms a leading ray,
To sooth, by thee, with kind unhop'd relief
My creatures loft—and whclin'd in guilt and grief r
I've led thee, ardent, nn thro world'ring climes,
To combat human woes, and human crimis,
Bui 'us enough—thy great fcomniilfion's o'e'r,
I prove thy faith, thy ze.l, thy love no more.
Nor droop, that far from country, kindled, friends,
1 hy hie to duty long devoted, ends ; *
What boots it wheie the high f ward is giv'n.
Or where the foul triumphant fpriim toHeav'n '•
(Majackufdts Cctilinel.)
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTA HVES
THURSDAY, APRIL i.
The profwjititm ftr ajumihg the State debts under (onf, deration.
M Nr?v L VT N ?'K in r,ply l° Mr ' MOOr '' am extremely
K j y 'j Chairman,that anoihrr wo. thy colleague of mint
has rendered it necessary for me to rife in this' debate as I had
flattered myfelt that ray fcntim,ms had bee,, clearly expreflVdand
fully underlW when I (pokeon it the day before yclterday.and
explained to another of my worthy colleague yefterdav I he
owever the house will iidulge Je lor A" ioS { B \ "Z"
ion of this importance, when I seem to beperfonally called Soon
rut"* ™y° vn °P>»»ons, and in the peculiar predicament
ot differing from nine of my colleagues. I shall mnfin,
(elf entirely to anfwerirg the objrftions of the gentleman who
fpokelaft ; he too lias taken notice of what I fa.d refpe&inc the
weight of wealth laying towards (he sea coast of Virginia and the
weight of legislative influence to the weft ward- this he'has n ?
denied ; but lays that the articles of the treaty for the M vl' , r
Britilh debts, contrafled prior to the war ought to have b're n r °
plied With—that the honor of all America wa. conce. neH T"
complying with that orticle-and that therefore the gentleman
could not complain of the western influence in comolvini I
the expre sdefire of Congress, whose bufij."™^ftlfiTor
do°not C th 3' tr "'V' Sir 1 with him so lar"-
I do not complain that mv country patted ani ast for the fulfilment'
eonrJ rea '>' e,,terrd '" to h y the general government ; but. f„ )
conceive that a treaty has two fides to it. and that the ft. nulati
on both (ides ought to be literally TulGlkd. When a claufr w
introduced into that,ft to fnfpen'd the operatln of i mi, T
Brifilh government fhoisld MSI it c .n <beirp.„ t that the
pJiance might (fill go on when this was claimed as a jull.ce due to
hem by the debtors to the Britifl. natfon, who lay in the track Lf
the armies, who inhabited that part of the counhy toward, the
fta coast who had been deprived of their negro--, contrary to
treaty, and who were at the famt time State'creditors forfutl.ii I
njhea the armies ttj the United States. I alk that ,/„
ther this rpafonable propofltion for a suspension of the 'ast um'l
Congress might have time to remonstrate with the Britilh ™
mcnt for their relief, was not violently opp»fed by fh
fluence, who fuffercd none of these inconveniences, or bu a v « J
final) degree or proportion of them ? Sir, th.t gentleman wis
The gentleman acknowledges that the greater part of the ferviees
of the war and of the supplies, were drawn f rom theeaftem d
vifiono that (late; but that the welte.n alway, held themlelves i„"
,h llcd on - In this 1 Ks
flr '. th "' th " e were no citizens in the United States better
affefttd totne American cause than they were ; but lir does hi.
ZttnJ ' 1 haVC si " d ° tthC iu <Wtyof.he burthen
450
Your's sincerely,
M fve>> .V«- c moic fci i tr>\h tkt JUtt could thin pa\ the
en, they were content to receive tor "them wlrat thoy 'couW
Sir, 1 willgivea (hort hiftoryof this bulinefs : 1 own I am for™
to mention it, as it atfedts, in some lon, the credit ot the state to
which I helong ; hut 1 believeit will not befoUnd flu ilar Thcfe
■certificates were to be redeemed in the manner the worthy gentle
man mentions by calculation, in four, )ui or h-. years, I cannot
exa&ly remember which; bu: hv np remained • low; time previ
oits to the *6 urtnoticed or utilunded, bad lallen at low as i/6 in
the pound. This tax, in one or two years. aj,pr< i.ited therato
three or four flii!l.ng«. "Hits ."ipwecvtion was t nitid too burden
some lor those who were.., mail, Ideis; th- tax was.aswella.
my memory feives, leluned; and when at bit it was found that
they wire near.y ewuun,Khed or called in, they were made pays-",
blc in the airtarages ol taxrs iui; Jor several years back,and thus
never rofc, until the last arrears were paid in, to more than four
(hillings in the pound ; and thus was ihe property of those who
furnifticd the armies of the United States reimbursed thetn
Sir, I fprak feelingly on this liibjea : I was one of the fuffer.
ers, my conftituems are almost all fufterers in this mode. Sir
what I fay of myfelf, I wifti not to be understood as influencing
mv conduit on this floor: I fpurn'at the idea, if it (hould be en
tertained. On this floor I hope ] always act on enlarged and sc.
neral principles. ® *
Sir, the gentleman has mentioned what I said of emigrations -
and has aflTerted that, natwithftanding those emigrations, the
number of inhabitants who were to pay taxes in Virginia, had in
crcafed since the war, which he fays on a former occasion I ad
mined to be the cafe. I am sure, fir, I havr seen no document!
to confirm thtj gentleman's aflertion, nor can I conceive that 1 ever
aflenteS to such an one fat the time the fi\ingombe fe»{ of govern
ment was incontcmplation, or at any other time) as it refpefted
Virginia ; hut I verify believe the fact to be otherwise, unless the
gentleman a(Tures me from proper documents.
The gentleman (ays it is the intefeft yt Kentuckyandthe Weft,
em Country to tili'ume the .debt: It this b«- the cafe, fir, ]
much surprized that their rcprefi-ntntive* should be found arguini
so llrongly against what they :.(Tert to be thr iniereft of their con-
Itnuents. But, fir, it docs not become me to point out to them
their duty; I therefore left'* them to afrinthc manner they think
right, not doubting but tliey wt.'l in th» end do the best for their
condiments, as I think lain doing for mine, and for the unionat
large. lam so firmly persuaded of thi,. fir,, that lam willing to
' wh;u liulc r#ptii»i»on 1 may be pnlftfled hf as a politician on
the event, and not knowing the fenfc of my constituents on foim
portain a fobjeit, 1 shall veotuie to. support the opinions I have
Bdvincedl, keeping mv mind open lo convi&ion, and yielding to
• 'ear and unequivocal arguments when they are produced, that
will shew me that I am wrong.
! hope I have thus far exculpated mvfelf from the charge which
I rtii'j to be aimed at me, of having advanced opinions unfound
ed and erroneous.
I fliaii only lake notice of one ohfrrvation, with whichthe gen
tleman concluded : That in all political quetlinns he should be *o.
vemed in his vote by the principles of justice. I hope he will
C.iantablv suppose lam under the fame influence. But fir I
will conclude that justice is due from Congrels to the states, and
to the cnizcns of the Hate : This can onlv be done by eftabliih
ing credit on the brord and ftahle foundation of public faith to
the creditors ot the United States of every denomination.
L Smi T' l v( -) Iht gentleman (Mr. Moore) he said,
had altogether mi ft a ken the law of South-Carolina, he had noti
<efl, and its operation ! That law was intended to create a medi
um ot circulation, by way of loan or mortagage; ioc,oool. were
emitted lor that puipofe, all the specie of the country
exported and the dtir.efisgreatly diftrefTed forthe want of a rac
i r h ' hrn rcad thr P rc - ,n ble of the law and Come
ot the claures, to prove what he had said. Of the above futn not
et an ahnnt6o.oool. circulated in South-Carolina, the re
mainder having found its way into the neighbouring ftatu.
J he gent 1 -man was ecually mifinformed, when heobfcrvedtJiat
axes levied in that state had not been applied to thedilchargc
.laaebtr, brf: iad been oiverted into a different chamie'., Mr.
. mith r-ad a f'atemerit from the report of a committee of finance,
!! imposed from 1784 to 1789 to the 3.
nofr' O•" nv< " 3°°tCOO (f01ii..., annually, for the exprefj pur-
L i! C ,nl ". <f * <>n 'be debt contrasted by the «ar;
All I j e rR 'i l3l , P tnod upwards of a million and a hulfof
>; lars bad . ren funk ol the principal of the debt, by fairs of laod
ehfehar° ' i j'T* - d r< ' orc 3S R rfa ' exertions forthe
to the mlliri® f v u C f""' " V,r S inia - With rei'peft
nrrriati-1 'h A lr g' n ' a having l.een paid in money greatlv de
h/d not ,h< - South.Carolina beer, likewise
ohn Ia ? Had not some of the militia been life
then en, \a . k V 7 tW " the pound ? How
tnnia w • H propriety, that the militia of Vir
lin- ?Th h VT d '° P av '' u debts of those ol South-Cam.
Ant J i"T C ] T r l,m, . nvi| V tJ xed ever since the war?
fuml, y n °' 7 llWw 'th taxation, if the .f-
Ceorr a" l", "K g r" VC u ? haS bf ' C " faid > b V ,hc gentleman from
than theno ,h ur more to the import
on w„uM w" : Wa-no'tha.a Bmngargumcnt why theatfumr..
th '°, th " rc lh ' rs ?11 generally ackno,-
son? djf C ° n l " nt!n,: ' 1 drh,s were chiefly in the hands of per
son dwelling to the northward ol Potowmac j the greatest pro-
Z rL"r t >" r , drh ' S ; "' C r " nt " r >' on the south of
O the r, '' t,,crcforc ,h ; Southern states paid the greatest part
r ,T U V- Wa l' t "? tf r their that the afftimption
back in • aC . '/k 1 . Tne " l ' t ' ,e late creditors wouMdraw
which othcr^fr 1 ° 'u" r In . tcrcfts ' 1 proportion ofthat impiit
g ° alt0 S fth e' into the pocketsof the con
tinental cred tors ? It was undoubtedly an injury to theftatr.
whirh contributed molt to the r! j " j
fnnrrrc f , l »ipoft, to be drained of their re
ted ast P^ P "^"; Whorcr,dr d thole states which contribu-
Secrctarv d' , ° i"" 5 va fi"us articles reported bv the
wy calcul i H " 0t ? PP r y in Ulis fta S e of thc That report
funded w „1, f V 'be bonfe that the state debts could be
of the hunle -h" ol i!' n s "j ta xation; it was in the power
thof which'fh Uk le f ndsw | er s under consideration, to reje3
He could -° U w ° ur m j u riou» f and to fabftitute others,
"d in n/ hOV r CVCr ' in remark that persons intereft
lieved ir, nf! "" 1° rllicw manufacture were to be be
couJd he urid ' 'ft nC J 'k Secretary, who was difmtcreftcd-, nor
which in On, ' 'he mconfiftency of the petition alluded to,
ihem .» d r ar »^ Ct , or . l^at ,e duty would be oppieflive to
nuc ' H' r u that J t WOuld Produce nothing to the reve
a-'iinft whi I '"" ' e was no ooflible objeif of revenue,
'he a mend me r f not complain. As to
bad himfelf 'he member from that state
vention me- nt ' 3rC j w° u ld not undertake to fay the con
carried that m° ?" l? a ' nft thc assumption.but that the words
men, could TT'' n? -, \ h,s mi S ht be true, and yettheamend
fumotion wa. ° ap P[-'' because the house had been told theaf
ment was fr * ""7" fought of ill that state at the time theamend
aTainft .b/ r - U hce " f " d . 'hat a, North-Carolinawa.
be 'efted V, 7u P - l, ° n ' " was a Efficient reafonwhy it (hould not
was rcnicrnKf .a 'l W3 f a i° ext "Ordinary declaration, when it
desirous of it" ' 1 ' >CCn to ' d that South-Carolina being
the inclinatiorT'f "° a Z be adopted, and that
'v'l there Was T ? a ' C d not prevail with Congrcfs. Sure-
Hate was in fa, r reason why it (hould be agreed to if ona
state was <r;' ° 'i L aS ' C " lou ' c ' be rejefled because one
'hmkThat fTn. Thc S «'e<ary, it had been said, seemed ,0
take place • Tlw'YT' Was an event whtch -.vopld not certainly
unauc-ftionaKl I c m , cnt or without an afiumption, wouli
pXy::mtk y stha a t^ dCd WUh aod the "*
fcttlenunt alter the °' n wb'ch can be made to a
>0,-« to pZr n,ch dors ;iot with c<iu,!MONDAY, MAY 10.
' The bill entitled an adl for giving effe& to a
certain art therein mentioned iu rel'pecS: to the
State of North Carolina—and for amending said
a<si, was brought in, engrofled, read the third
time and pafled,
A petition from Thomas Jenkins and Co. mer
hants 111 Hudson, State New-York, was read, sta
ting the loss of* goods by fire while on their pas
sage from New-lforkto Hudson, and praying a
remission of the duties on said goods ; referred to
a committee.
Sundry other petitions and memorials were
presented—read and referred.
On motion of Mr. Parker, the report of the
Secretary at War, on the petition of Dr. Middle
tor, was read. It was then moved that this
report be referred to a feletfl committee—and Mr.
Parker, Mr. Tucker, and Mr. Bloodworth, were
appointed.
Mr. Oilman of the Committee of enrolment,
reported that the Committee had examined four
bills, which had pafl'ed the House, and found
them duly enrolled—the Speaker affixed his sig
nature to the fame.
The bill for adjusting and fettling the claims
of Frederick W. de Steuben, was brought in en
grofled, and read the third time—the gratuity in
land being omitted in the bill, Mr. Smith, (S. C.)
supposing the oiniffion to bean error—moved that
the bill should be re committed, in order to re-in
sert the clause. This motiou after a short
difcuflion was loft.
The blank m thi clause Hating the annuity,
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) moved ftiould be filled up with
2700 dollars.
After fonie debate the ayes and noes were ta>
ken, and the motion was negatived, as follows :
Meflrs. Ames, Bcnfbn, Bland, Cadwallader, Car
rol, Coles, Fitzfmons, Gale, Gerry, Hartley, Heifler,
Huger,, Huntington, Lawrante, Lee, Madison, P.
Muhlenburgh, l'age, Scot, Smith (S. C.J Trumbull,
Tucker, Vining, Wadfmorth, Wynhoop aj.
Meffi s. AJhe, Baldwin, Bloodworth, Boudinot,
Brown, Coulee, Floyd, Fojier, Oilman, Good hue,
Griffin, Grout, Hathom, Livermore, Mathews, Moore,
Parker, Partridge, RenfelJaer, Schureman, Seiiey,
Sherman, Sinnickjon, Smith, ( M.) Steele, Stone, St ur
ges, Sylvefler, White, William/on 30.
A motion was then made to fix the annuity at
2,j00 dollars. This was negatived—Ayes 25
Noes 30.
As was a motion for 2,420 dollars. Aves 2?
Noes 30:.
A motion for 2000 dollars was agreed to Ayes
The bill being Completed—on the question,-
Shall th: bill pafe—it was carried in the afiirnia
tive. The ayes and noes being as follow.
AYES.
Meffi s. Amts, Benfon, Bland, Boudinit, Cadwetl
lader, Carrol, Coles, Cout-e, Fitzjhaons, Gale, Gtr
ry> Griffin, Hartley, Heifler, Huger, Huntington,
Livtrmore, Lee, Lawrancc, Madison, Moore, P. Mtth
lenburg, Page, Parker, Scott, Sherman, Smith, (M.J
Smith, (S.C.J Trumbull, Tucker, Viuing. Wadf
vjorth, Whtt*, Wvikoop.— 34,
Meflrs.. Ajhe, Baldwin, BloodwCrth, Brown,Floyd
Fojier, GHi,:an, Goodhue, Grout, Hathorn, Mathews
} art ridge, Renfeltaer, Schureman, Sctiey, Sylvefler
Siniiickfo,l,Steele, Stone, Sturges, IV: Hi am fori 2r '
The House then re(olved itfelf inro a committee
on that part of the report of a feledt committee
on the petition of the merchants and inhabitants
ot 1 ortfinouth, in New- Hatnpfhire, which relates
to an increase of tonnage 011 foreign fliipping, & c
Some progress was made therein when the com'
nutteerote.
Mr. Loudinot obtained leave of absence for one
eCK - Adjourned.
TUESDAY, MAY 11, 1790.
Iks pcl """ H weu: read and referred.
tan, date 'j la> '' ng dut,cson wines after a cer
m"™ r co '- -
ol ', hC Sec y e ' ar y° f the Tre.ifury pursuant to orders
c n nd f? r ' T an abftiaft of the duties received on Amen
nd foreign tonnage, to 3,ft December last was read.
tee on 'he whole, on the report of thefeleft commit
,y H ) ,£££»* ! he T'J tS and tra dersof Portfmuuth
• ) cipt cting an enhanced duty on tonnage.
motion 10 llrikeom theclanfe which proposed that the duty
lZ h^ t0 " na i e ih ° U,d U r " frd to dollar, occasioned a
Mr't ' t f 1 — alliimatitfe was supported bv Mr Ijekfon
TT a ; ,d M -BLdwo„h Mr '^:
'n favor of the ah I J ' u S '' and Mr " spake
Dorter! nr r coh *nccd duty—but the committee lose and re
ported progress w,thorn taking the question.
troops and'ml? 01 i Se "'" r y at war > with a flatement ofthe
warlas read. dby the durin 6 the late
flatement ofmn Secretary of the Treasury relative to the
ment ofthe revo)utio' >a t y the f veral dates from the commence-
A Meffi .ri» • ", J c ratl^catl on ot the conltitution.
tffeft to t : h- aflVlJf"* ' tl,e J Se " atc w 'th the bill for giving
(»• C.)»dforV^ n m 7 lt ' o, ' £d '. w ' th rcf to the State of
propotVd bv theh T "'*L o *° me l^e amendments
b '"' theSc " atC con curred—to other,
f omede°bl't". f °L r H Cd V ng th f firft amendment, occasioned
"c L thi Honfeadinurned without comma to a dccifion
fHILHDjfc.LfHI.A, 5 May.
as fuS haS i- eci .' declaimed against in all ages,
"five ot virtue, and liberty, Has it not
AYES.
NOES.
NOES
lometimes becn productive of a fpirjt of iaduftrV
and hence become beneficial > D r . Franklin used
°4? T of ' this " His lady once
made a present of a fine cap, to a young woman
of Cape May. The Doctor reproved her for it,
as tending to introduce anvong these simple peo
pt, a talte for fuperfliidus ornaments. As heex
peCted, the fight of the cap kindled a desire in
all the young women who beheld it, to pofll-fs a
lmilar one—The consequence was, that they set
about knitting a quantity of mittens, which were
sent up to Philadelphia for sale, and the money
devoted to the purchase ofcaps. Ever since that
time, a great number of mittens have annually
been brought to this city from Cape May—and a
beneficial trade ha? been the consequence, of what
it was apprehended would be injurious to the
people.
It is with pleasure we inform tlie public, that
tie commendable ipirit of encouraging our own
manufactures is daily spreading thro' these Rates.
W e hear from New-Jersey, that on Saturday, the
24th ult. there was a nioeting, tho' upon short
notice g-lven, at rhe Conrt-Houfe in Burlington,
of a oonfiderable iVumber of the citizens, alfifted
by some of themoft refpeftable and wealthy gen
tlemen from the county, to consider upon a plan
191- eltabhfhing woollen, linen and cotton fabrics
in that place. Daniel Ellis, Elq ; was placed in
the chair ; and, the plan being read, some gene
ral observations and information were given by
MefTrs. Btoomfietd, Jo,,n and Coxe. An liand
fome fubfeription was then made, and a commit
tee appointed to wait upon the Welt-w'ifliers of
American Manufaiftures for their contributions.
Extral7 of a tetter from Stockholm, dated Feb. 2.
" This winter is indeed wonderful. Several
kinds of trees have been in bloom. Anemonies
and other spring flowers were fold about the
meetsoll New-Year's day. At this timeitisdif.
ficult to gather an handful of snow. The season
is very wet; which is unfavorable to the grain
in the ground, by foftering a species of worm,
that has done considerable damage."
BOSTON, May 5.
On Monday, agreeable to law, a Circuit Court
of the United States, for the Maflachuferts dil
trid, was held before Chief Justice Jay, Judcre
Cushing, and Judge Loweu.. After the usual
forms were gone tl) rough,and the Grand fury 1111-
pannelled, a Charge was given them by the Chief-
Jultice —and the Throne of Grace addrefled in
prayer, by the Rev. Dr. Howard.
From Mr. Wraxa u.'s Htfltry of Mount St. Michael,
ntar Ctanvilbu~iu trance.
Al/E pnfled on through several lefler rooms
into a large paflage on one fide of which
the Swiss (Mr. Wraxall's guide) opened a door
and through a narrow entrance, perfectly
he led me by a second door into an apartment or
dungeon—for it rather merited the latter than
the former appellation—in the middle of which
Itood a cage—lt was composed of prodigious
wooden bars ; and the wicket which admitted in
to it was ten or twelve inches in tliicknefs. I
went into th'e inside ; the space it comprised was
about twelve feet square, or fourteen ; and it
might be nearly twenty in height. This was the
abode of many eminent virtims in former ages
whole names and mjferies are now obliterated
and forgotten.
" There was, said my conductor, towards the
latter end of the last century, a certain news
writer in Holland, who bad presumed to print
some very severe andfarcaftic reflections on Ma
dame de Maintenon, and Lewis the Fourteenth.
Some months after, he was induced, by a person
lent expressly for that purpose, to make a tour
into French slanders. I lie inffant he had quit
ted the Dutch teriitories, be was put under ar
rest, and immediately, by his Majesty's express
command, conducted to this place. They shut
him up in this cage. Here he lived upwards of
twenty-three years ; and here he expir
ed—During the long nights of winter, no fire or
candle was allowed him. He was not permitted
to have any book. He saw no human face but
the gaoler, who came once every day to present
him, through a hole in the wicket, his little por
tion of bread and wine. No inflrument was given
him with which he could destroy hiinfelf ; but he
found means, at length, tn draw out a nail from
the wood, with which he cut out or engraved on
the bars of his cage, certain fleurs de' lis, and
armorial bearings,which formed his only employ
ment and recreation.
" It is now fifteen years, said the Swiss, since
a gentleman terminated his days in that cage ; it
was before I came to rcfirle here ; but there is
one instance within my own memory : Monf. de
F aperfonof rank, was conducted here by
command of the late King ; he remained three
yearsfliut up in this cage. 1 fed him myfelfevery
day ; but he was allowed books and candle to
divert his inifery ; at length the Abbot, touched
with his deplorable calamities, requeued and
obtained the royal pardon. He was set free and
is now alive in France.
« The subterranean chambers, added he, in
451
£X FRACT,
this moatn&iri, arc so iWuietWs, thartwl&W
themnotourfelvcs. There are certain dungeon*
called Oubliettes, into which they Were atcul
coined anciently to letdown roalefacftors jmiky"
or very heinous crimes ; they provided then) with
a loaf of bread and a l. ntie of wine • and then
t ley were totally forgottori, and lefrto pc- ifh bv
lungei ill the dark vault of the rock. I*iifs ii»i
nifhment however has not been inflicted by
King in the lalt or present cciiro :*v." '
NEW-YORK, W aONESOA l, MAY tz
Extra, r of a letter from a %-mtlc nan in Rhod-e'-fjl •;/ ;
„J? h " > J' th ' s dated /thru-. 2 9. "
N A<r re .^' !l be 3 ni! j° r ' r y «f An ties in our
New Aflembly, which convenes at Newport nexu
we s. J. Mr - f hnner who succeeds Gov. Collins,
polleiies good natural abilities, and without the
graces of a courtier, hath acquired a considerable
popularity——the appointment was not his wish,
but the result of necessity, it being more oonfon
ant to his views to govern behind the curtain, as
he was free from responsibility if any measures
should prove injurious, and could claim the crHit
of fuclil as were beneficial ; but theanties fearful
tiat a federal character might be in nomination,
brought him forward as rhe mott popular man
or their party.
" Moftof thcountry towns are in muchoppofed
Co the Conflitutipn as ever, being dupes to thj
mifi cprefentatioiis and falfhoods. of their defin
ing leaders. Y\\fi seaports are alt federal. At
the late election of officers in Newport there was
343 proxes for federal characters—but 17 for
Anties—and these r 7 consisted of new fau-le J of
ficeis o. the customs, tide-waiters, with a'paper
money Judge and his sons. Providence, War
ren, and Bristol h id aTo large majorities for the
federal prox. Should not the Conditution be a
doptea by the Convention at their next nieetinp-,
(which 1 very much doubt) necessity will drive
the lea-ports to measures ofa molt serious nature,
measures, which will pave the way for a difmein
bernient of this unhappy Stare."—
The great Burke of the British House of Com.
m°n S ' • exc \ tetl rhe indignation of many by lua
rhillippic agaitiftthe French revolutionilts—but
it mult be determined by the event, whether the
advocates for those checks and balances of power,
which ddtinguifh the Britiih government,are not
at the fame time the most confident friends to the
liberties of the people. Simple democracy has al
ways ended in tyranny.
It is very much to be doubted whether the
plans of the national aflbmbly of France, so far
a-s they contemplate the annihilation of diftincli
ons, orders and privileges,have a tendency to ef
rabhfh a government that will be firm and liable—
and a fluctuating system is liable to innumerable
objections ; forthe people after struggling with a
variety of-tenipoiary evils generally take refuse
111 delpotifm. 0
Inequality of circumstances is the inseparable
attendant of commerce, civilization, and refine
ment—good government therefore is the art of
gnai c 11 tg the 7/tany from the impositions and ty
.?* the fein—and this cannot be done so ef
fect nail v m any way as by lecuring the equal
rights of ALL. & 1
The College.of Physicians of Philadelphia have \
agreed that an eulogium in honor ofthat diltin- \
grimed medical character the late Doctor Cullen
of Edinburg, lhall be delivered by one of their J
members.
An Hechon for DI RECTORS of the BANK u-as held on Mon
/; whe " ,het °l <>W"'S grmlcn.en were chofcn. viz.—l Hoc
i 't'h I'l .T '' "f* a Vice-Prcl-dcnts Wifiiam
sjfl i Z u, HO""' Thmas Randall, (emfort
Mull' s i U n MXonnici, Nicholas Lew, {ohrt
Murray, «r,liiam Edgar, GaUanVerplar.k J
APPOINTMENT.
IISCII Coxt, Esq. AOiftant to the Secretary of the Trcafurv
»!«'William Du*R,Efq. rcfignrd. nctrcaiur),
rJrfTtkiP'rif th f S " P T e Cc " rt ■7" dica «'rt, which had been
Jitt.ng m this city, adjourned previous to winch the Mlrmine judee
ncntsucrepvenagawjlfeveialculprits, viz. William Glover, coined
\U,,I" u / '10 " tcv "' l m fi'-jl Friday in June. IVilliam
each Sebrr'wfc " , ' P, " d 6 ° " jevcrd times, 20
each, Scbre W,11,am,, larceny, ?o lajkes, Edward Alien. connSei
oj breaking ana entering ajl 0 re,t o be imj,r,fon-d three months. Ant'io
ny,.a Negro Man, larceuy, 39 tajhes. IViUiam Swaine, a robbery in.
thepeet,jud s ment rented ta a future diy }
»FUr bong the AnimfaryoJ the Sons of Sr. Tamma-
W|» be celebrated by that Society. Should the wither
Provefavorable, they wt//, ,„ splendid drejfes, walk in Prcce/Jion from
*LON?TAI'I- a f y ,' Br "' Church >" the]i:tis—*here
a LONG TALK n to bt delivered by the Scribe of the Society.
arrivals since Our last.—shw-york
Ship George, Hunter, Glasgow.
Brig auger, Dckay, London.
~ "» Green, St. Croix.
Brothers, Dunlap, Grenada.
Ark, Wediiam, Halifax.
Schooner Adonis, Durham, Sr. Vincents.
a §' c > St. Thomas.
Catherine, Wilifon, Sheiburne.
Sloop Maria, Elliott, Charleston.
Snow Zebulon, Hudson, Liverpool.
— —La Virg« do Corofa Aug. Villamuerte, Cadiz.
Brig Maria, Jenkins, Cape Francois.
Schooner Exchange, W.ll.fon, Charleston.
Friends, Parker, Sheiburne.
T , Sh 'P f^ eral ' ft ' Dale, Canton, four months.
Armenia, Gtfce, and Anthony, of Ne.n-York, were at
Gmtm, and expected toft, l in all January. '
the r " drKk ' a " d J°°P mjkington, with furrs.frm
■ - ' "'J 1 of America, were alja at Canter,.
« Cation *hen the F*
■paDISCOURSES ON D AVIL A.
CV(I la lc proprc del'ifpru l>umain,que les cxemple ne corrigent
pcrlunnc ; les foUitcs des pcius iont pcrducs puur icuri enfans ;
il taut chaquc generation laiL les fienncs.
LET us now attempt a performance of the pro
mile, at the close of our firft number : Men,
in their primitive conditions, however savage,
were undoubtedly gregarious—and they continue
to be social, not only in every stage of civilization,
but in every poliible lunation in which they can
be placed. As nature intended them for society,
ihe has furnilhed them with pullions, appetites,
and propenlities, as well as a variety of faculties,
calculated both for their individual l enjoyment,
and to render them uletul to each other in their
social connexions. There is none among them
more eilential or remarkable, than the pajfion for
dijtinclion. A desire to be observed, considered,
esteemed, praifed,beloved,admired by his fellows,
is one of the earliest, as well as keenest difpofi
tions discovered in the heart of man. If any one
should doubt the existence of this propensity, let
him go and attentively observe the journeymen
and apprentices in the firft workihop, or the oars
men in a cockboat—a family, or a neighborhood
—the inhabitants of an house, or the crew of a
Ihip—a school, or a college—a city, or a village
—a savage, or civilized people—an hospital, or a
church—the bar, or the exchange—a camp, or a
court. Wherever men, women or children are
to be found, whether they be old or young—rich
or poor—high or low—wife or foolilh—ignorant
or learned—every individual is seen to be ftrong
]y aifluated by a desire to be seen, heard, talked
of, approved and respected by the people about
hiin, and within his knowledge. Moral wri
ters have, by immemorial usage, a right to make
a free use of the poets.
The love of praise, howe'er conceal'd by art,
Reigns more or Ids, and glows in every heart ;
The proud to gain it, toils on toils eudure,
The modest (bun it, but to make it sure.
O'er globes and scepters, now on thrones it fwclls,
Now, trims the midnight lamp in college-cells.
'Tis tory, whig—it plots, prays, preaches, pleads,
Harrangues in Senates, fqu ak.s in masquerades ;
It aids the dancer's hiel, the writer's head,
And heaps the plain with mountains ot the dead ;
Nor ends with life; but nods in fable plumes
Adorns our herfe, and flatters on our tombs.
A regard to the sentiments of mankind con
cerning him, and to their dispositions towards
him, every man feels within himfelf ; and if he
has reflected and try'd experiments, he has found,
that no exertion of his reason—no effort of his
will, can wholly divert, hiin of it. In proportion
to our affedlion for the notice of others is our a
version to their neglect : The ftrongerthe desire
of the efteein of the public, the more powerful
the aversion to their disapprobation—the more
exalted the wifli for admiration, the more invin
cible the abhorrence of contempt. Every man
jiot only delires the consideration of others, but
he frequently compares himfelf with others, his
friends or his enemies, and in proportion as he
exults when he perceives that he has more of it,
than they, he feels a keener affliction when he
fees that one or more of them, are more refpecfl
ed than himfelf.
This passion, while it isfiniply a desire to excel
another, by fair indultry in the search of truth,
and the practice of virtue, is properly called
emulation. When it aims at power, as a means of
diftinc r tion, it is ambition. When it is in a situa
tion to suggest the sentiments of fear and appre
hension, that another, who is now inferior, will
become superior, it is denominated jealovfy.—
When it is in a state of mortification, at the Su
periority of another, and desires to bring liini
down to our level, or to depress him below us,
it is properly called envy. When it deceives a
uian into a belief ofjfalfe profeffions of efteein
or admiration, or into a falfe opinion of his im
portance in the judgmentofthe world, it is vanity.
These observations alone would be Sufficient to
shew, that this propensity in all its branches is a
principal source of the virtues and vices, tlie hap
pinefs and misery of human life—and that the
history of mankind is little more than a simple
narration of its operations and effects.
(The coniTi'fiori of No. 4, in our next.)
HISTORY OF PENNSYLVANIA.
(IN CONTINUATION.)
THE manufactures of Pennsylvania have en
creafed exceedingly within a few years, as
well by mailer workmen and journeymen from
abroad, as by the encreafed skill and industry of
our own citizens. Houfliold or family manufac
tures have greatly advanced, and valuable acqui
fitionshave been made of implements and machi
nery to save labour, either imported, or invented
in the United States. The hand machines for
cardingand(ginning cotton, have been introduc
ed by foreigners, and improved upon ; but we
have lately obtained the water mill for {pinning
Cotton and a water mill for flax, which is appli
cable also to spinning hemp and wool. These ma
chines promise us an early eftabliflinient of the
cotton, linen and hempen branches, and niufl: be
of very great service in the woolen branches.
No. IV.
Additional employment for weavers, dyers,
bleachers, and other manufacturers must be the
consequence; Paper mills, gun-powder mills, steel
works, rolling and flitting mills, printing figured,
goods of paper, linen ana cotton, coach-making,
book-printing, and several other branches, are
wonderfully advanced, and every month seems
to extend our old manufactures, or to introduce
new ones.
The advancement of the agriculture of Penn
sylvania is the belt proof that can be given of the
comfort and happiness it affords to its farming,
manufacturing and trading citizens. In the year
1786 our exports of flour were 150,000 barrels
(exclusive of many other articles ;) in 1787 they
were 202,000 barrels ; in 1 788 they were 220,000
barrels ; and in 1 789 they were 369,000 barrels ;
which exceeds any export ever made in the times
of the province or in the limes of the common
wealth. The produ.e of flax is encreafed in a
much greater degree, and that of wool is consi
derably more than it was before the revolution.
A new article is likely to be added to the lift of
our productions, which is a well tasted and whole
some ft/gar,made from the Maple Tree. It has|been
proved by many fair and careful experiments,
that it is 111 the power of a substantial farmer,
that has a family about him, easily to make twelve
hundred weight of this sugar every season, with
out hiring any additional hands, or any ntenfils,
but those that are neceflary for his family and
farm use. The time in which it can be made is
from the middle of February to the end of March,
when farmers in this country have very little to
do, as it is too early to plough or dig. The price
of fngar being lower here than in Europe, this
ariicle may be reckoned at too Mexican dollars
per annum, to every careful and fkilful farmer,
that owns land bearing the sugar maple. Of tliefe
there are some millions of acres in Pennfylania,
and the adjacent states, and at least one or two
millions belonging to this state, for sale, upon
the terms mentioned in the preceding part of
this paper. It jfeems alf'o highly probable that
this valuable tree may be transplanted, and thus
be obtained by almost any farmer in the state,
and that men of property, who will purchase ket
tles and hire hands for the above short period,
may make larger quantities.
I he lituation of religion and religious rights
and liberty in Pennsylvania is a matter, that de
serves the attention of all sober and well disposed
people, who may have thoughts of this country.
This state always afforded an asylum to the per
fected feds of Europe. No church or society
ever was established here, notythes or tenths can
be demanded ; and though some regulations of
the crown of Englaud excluded two churches
from a fliare in our government in the times of
the province, that is now done away with regard
to every religious society whatever, except the
Hebrew church. But at this time a Convention
of special representatives of the citizens of Penn
sylvania have under consideration all the errors,
that have inadvertently crept into our constitu
tion and frame of government, and, in the act
they have published for the examination of the
people, they have rejected the half-way doctrine
of Toleration, and have eftabifhed, upon firm
and perfectly equal ground, all denominations of
religious men. By the provisions of the new
code, a Protestant, a Roman Catholic and a He
brew may elect or be elected to any office in the
state, and puifue any lawful calling, occupation
or profeflion. The constitution of general go
vernment of the United States also guarantees
this inestimable and sacred right, and it is surely
a sacred right ; for it belongs to the Deity to be
worshipped according to the free will and con
sciences of his creatures.
We lay 110 difficulty in the way of any person,
who desires to become a free and equal citizen!
On the day of his landing he may buy a farm, a
lioufe, merchandize, or raw materials ; he may
open a work-shop, a counting-house, an office, or
any other place of lawful business, and pursue his
calling without any hindrance from corporation
rules or monopolizing companies, or the payment
of any sum of money to the public. The right
of electing and being elected (which does not af
fect business 01* his fafety) is not granted till
the expiration of two years, which prudence re
quires.
A Morning School is opened,
by; the Subscriber, for Youkc Ladies, at Harmony Hall ad
joining the BaWifts burying ground, in Gold Street. Horn's of
attendance are from 6 till 8. —For further particulars, please to en
quire of the Public's Obedient Servant, GAD ELY
N. B. The Young Ladies School which has been' kept at No
219 Queen-Street, is removed to the above place.
New-York, May 8, 1790.
Moles Rogers, and Co.
TT AVE removed their STORE to the New Building, corner
w v'°i m Queen-Street, fronting Burling Slip
New-York, May 1790. y
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59, to No. ,87, Water-Street, near the
Fly-Market,
WHERE they negotiate all kinds ofPUBLICK
452
PRICE CURRENT.
Jamaica Spirits, 5/3.5/
Antigua Rum, 4/9. a 5/
it. Croix, do. 4/4.
Country, do. 3/.
MolalTcs, 2/ 2/1.
Brandy, 6/8. <t '6/3.
Geneva, 5/ .
Do. in cases, z%f.
Mliftovado Sugar, 80/. « 72/
Loaf, do. I^3.
Lump, do. i/i|.
Pe PP c r, 3/:
Pimento, tf.aify.
Collcc, 173. 1/4.
Indigo, (Carolina) 3f. a 6/".
Do. Ficnch, ife/. iq/T
Rice, B3J. 24f.
Superfine Flout, <js[
Common do. $Bf.
Rye do. 26J. a 28if.
Indian Meal, 18f. iof.
Rye, 4/9. pr. bush.
Wheat, 11f. a 12J.
Corn, (Southern) \f.
Do. (Northern,) $f. a 4J9.
Beef, firft quality, 48f $of.
Pork, firft quality,
Oats, 2/2.
Flax-feed, (J.
Ship bread per cwt. 21f. 24/ C
Country refined } ,
bar-iron, £ *81. « 301.
Do. bloomery, ajl. a. e6l.
Swedes do. 451.
Ruflia do. 301.
Pig-iron, 81 io/T a 91.
German flee], grf.per lb.
Nails American, by calk. ? 14^
per. lb. 4 d. J
Do. do. do. 6d. 12i.
Do. do. do. Bd. gl 2 d.
Do. do. do. iod.*}
Do. do. do- i2d.f ~ -,i
Do. do. do. 2od.Q Bga.
Do. do. do, iq&.j
Pot ash, per ton, 391. a 401.
Pearl afti, 481 e 501.
Bees-wax per lb. if.
Mackaiel per barr. 26f. « 30f.
Herrings, 18/ i6f.
Mahogany, Jamaica, > ,
per foot, J icd '
Dominico, do. gd.
Honduras, do. -jd.
Logwood unchipped,pr.ton. 81.
Do. chipped. 141.
2 inch white oak > . r
plank, perm. JlO • 10J
-1 inch do. 5 1.
* inch white pine plank, 81.
lj: inch do. 61. 10f.
1 inch do. jl. 1 of.
2 inch pitch pine do. 101.
inch do. 61. 10f.
1 inch do. 41.
Pitch pine scantling, 3 1. 8/
Cyprus 1 feet Ihingles, il. 10f.
John Smith & Peter WeDfdO'vtr,
B SAIL-MAKERS,
EG leave to inform their Friends and the Public ingeoerjl,
that they have commenced business in eopartnerlhip in their
line, undcrthe Firm of SMITH and WENDOVER, in the SliU
, I r " nt Strcct . opposite Van Zandt'i Wharf (near the Cof
tee-Houfc) formerly occupied by Carmex and Smith, and lately
y J°hn Smi th. Thofc Gentlemen who will be pleajed to fa
vor t em with their custom may depend upon having their work
done in the bed manner, and on as (hort notice as can beexpeflid.
New-York, May 1,1790.
To be SOLD,
Or cx char, ge i for LAND,
■ WLNTY-Two acres of groynd in the City of New-York,
X fronting Great George-Street, Bowry-Lanc, and Greenwich-1
' °" lh f, P'«™f« is a brick dwelling house containing to
rooms ; a fmailer br.ck l, ou fe with four rooms; a house with a
brick from with two rooms: In each house is a Kitdwn,and Wi
der the whole tour cellars; a never failing fprine is near one of
F u 1 c stable and a coach-house with stables.
From the dwelling house both the Northland the East rivm arc
plain to the view. Additional be* made
this Spring, the ground has been laid out for pleaiure u well"
" r " u l a Y : " provided with variety of orchard and other fruit;
T s ri j J 3 ' a "° becn f° wn with timothy and clover.
? b , c lold for "rtificates of the national debt, which will be re
ceived at the nominal value, Dollars at Bs. Or for good upland,
even it covcred with wood, provided it is situated on the follow
ngi ivers, or on as far as navigable,communicating with the
h, i) V "r J p p tow,n »c above Alexandria,at James River a
. e f V" 10 ' 111 South-Carolina, about one hundred milesfroi*
a Edi <*° or Ponpon river, or on Savannah
th/ I°' • at P nvate fa 'c before the x s lh of May, itwill
mrrrhl rT C ,! tr ?' be dlf P ofcd b Y Public Vendue at the
p s Coffcc-Houfc.—For further particulars enquire of MK
1 L 7 ' °" the prenufes. New-York April 10, >790-
Bv , r , advertisement.
t or der of the honorable John Slofs Hobart Esquire, oneo!
nl xl J ust , lc " ° f thc Supreme Court of Judicature of the State
1. ' 'Ti °" is heicby given to Paul DevrtlJ,now ot
othfro an abfeonding debtor, and to all
Dmnf W j' m U , ma 7. concern ; that upon application and dut
ture ' pursuant to an ast of the legifla
debtor*"" (T A 1" r rcllcf against abfeonding and absent
| j'n pi , n ourth da y of A P ril » t-86, by a creditor of
fa£ P i n he the said Justice has direacd all his the
br sri j s real and personal, within this State, to
mn ff I r"i unlcfs hc 111311 discharge his debts within three
orrW lhh e P l ,'^ llcatlon of this no,ice I 3,1 hi » E ftatr real aI " ,
j a j e ' O Jd fp r (,l e payment and fatisfaftion of his cre
at the city of New-York, the twenty-seventh day
anH >, rC ' 111 tllc >' car our Lord one thousand leven hundred
andnii'cty. March llw3m .
William Taylor,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORK,
A n i »n- No " 4 ' Bu *linc-SLII>,
Aflortinent of EAST-INDIA GOODS,
Rnr>v whlc '' are the following Articles:
BOOK Muflms 8-4 6-4 5 - 4 || HUMHUMS,
jsckonct do, u LongC i othSi
Hankerchiefs.of various kinds,J Caflas,
PinT'' I Seersuckers,
g iams, | floglaporcs.
variety of handsome painted MUSLIM
XEH'-YORX.
MAI iz. Dollars f),
Do. 22 inch do. i], '(j
Do. 18. inch do. 18/
Butt white oak (laves, >.r
Pipe do. do. yl.
Hogfliead do. do. 61. lof.
Do. do. heading, 81.
Irifli barrel do. (laves, >,!. r r
Hogfliead red oak do. d' //
Do. y.tnch do. 5 1.
hoops, 41.
Whiteoak fquaie timber )
per square foot, C
Red wood, per ton, z I.
Kullick, 101.
Beaver, per lb. nf. t 16/
Ott r per (tin ,jf.
Grey fox, Act.
Martin, 4/10.
Racoon, 3/6*7/6.
Mufkrat, xqd.ai^d.
Beaver hats, 64 /.
Castor do. 48/
Chocolate, \^d.
Cocoa, 70s. a 80/.
Cotton, ljg.
Tar, pr. bar. to/.
Pitch, 14J.
Turpentine, 18/. aiof.
Tobacco, James River,
Do. York, 4d. a 3%d.
I)o. Rappahanock, 'id a 3\d.
Do. Maryland, coloured, fyl.
Do. Weftem-Ihore, 2d a 3\d.
Lead in pigs, pr cwt. 6c/.
Do. bars, 68/T
Do. Shot, C>Bf.
Red lead, 68f.
White do. dry, 9§f.
White do. in oil, 5/. 1 if.
Salt-petre hams, j£d.
Spermaceti candles, 3J.
Mould do. 1 id. a if.
Tallow dipt, g^d.
Soiip, $J. a Bd.
Castile soap, yd. a 10d.
English cheele, pr. lb. 1 jj.
Country do. $d. 6d.
Butter, 10 d.
Hyson tea, 9/6. a lcf.
Sequin do. 6/6.
Bohea do. 2/6.
Ginseng, 2f. a 2/6.
Staich Poland, 7d.
Snuff, tj 3 .
Allum fait, water mea- >
I sure, pr. bulh. 3/g,
Liverpool do. s/.
Madeira wine, ? r , ,
pr. pipe, I 60/. .90/.
Port, 46/.
Lisbon, pr. gal. cj'.
Tenei iff, 4 r
F > a!l . 3/3-
Dutch gun-powder,pr. cwt. 6/.
Nail rods, pr. ton, 34/. 3 8/.
Lintfeed oil, pr. gal. jJ.
W hale do. pr. barrel, r f j as6f.