<S>szeJfe
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 4 i, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 14, if Vol. 11. j
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA.
(ONCWDI D.
The Senate's thanks, the Gazette's pompous tale,
With force resistless, o'er the bnve prevail ;
This power has praise, thai virtue fcarcc can warm
Till fame fupplics the universal charm.
NATURE has taken effectual care of her own
work. She has wrought the pallions into
the texture and efience of the foul—and has not
left it in the power of art to deflroy them. To
regulate and not toeradicate them is the province
of policy. It is ofthehn hell importance to edu
cation, to fife and to society, not only that they
should not be deflroyed, but that they fbould be
gratified, encouraged, and arranged on the lide ot
virtue. To confine ourobfervations at pretent to
that great leading passion of the foul, which has
been so long underourconfideration : What dif
couragement, distress and despair, have not been
occasioned by its difappointnient ? Toconftder
one instance, among many, which happen contin
ually in schools and colleges. Put a supposition
of a pair of twin brothers, who have been nour
ished by the fame nurse, equally cncouraged by
their parents and preceptors, with equal genius,
health and strength, pursuing their lludies with
equal ardor andfuccefs. One, is at length over
taken by some sickness, and in a few days the
other, whoefcapes the influenza is advanced some
pages before liitn. This alone will make the flu
dies of the unfortunate child, when he recovers
his health, difguftfnl. As soon as he loses the
animating hope of pre-eminence, and is cortftrain
ed to acknowledge, & few others of his fourin or
class, his superiors, Ire becomes incapable ofin
duflriousapplication. Even the fear of the ferule
or the rod, will after this be ineffectual. The
terror of punifhnient, by forcing attention, may
compel a child to perform it talk—but can never
infufe that ardor for flucly, which alone can arrive
at great attainments. Emulation really seems to
produce genius, and the tlefire of superiority to
create talents. Either this, or the reverse of it,
must be true ; and genius produces emulation, and
natural talents, the deli re of fuperiority —for they
are always found together, ain't v;iiat and na~ i
ture have united, let no audacious legiflaror pre
fume to put asunder. When the love of glory
jnkindles in the hearty and influences the whole
foul, then, and only then, may we depend on a
rapid progression of the intelle<slual faculties.—
The awful feeling of a mortified emulation, is not
peculiar to childten. In an army> or a navy,
sometimeS the intereftof the service requires, and
oftener perhaps private irit'ereft and partial fa
vor prevail, to promote officers over their super
iors, or seniors. But the conffequence is, that
those officers can never serve again together.—
They must be diflribute<l in different corps, or
sent ondifferentcommands. Nor isthis the worll
effe»t: It alinofl universally happens, that the
fuperceded officer feels his heart broken by his
disgrace. Kis mind is enfeebled by grief, or dis
turbed by resentment—and the instances have
been very rare, of any brilliant a<flion performed
by such an officer. Whatamonument tothilcfaa
facfter of human r.ature is the long lift of yellow
Admirals in the British service !- Consider the
effects of similar difappointnients in civil affairs.
Minillers ofState, are frequently displaced in all
countries—and what is the consequence ? Are
they seen happy in a calm refigtiation to their
fate ? Do they turn their thoughts from their
former employments,to private fludies or business?
.Are the"}' men of pleasant humor, and engaging
conversation ? Arc their hearts at ease ? Or is
their conversation aconflantefFufion of complaints
and murmurs, and their breall the residences of
resentment and indignation, of grief and sorrow,
.of malice and revenge .' Is it common to fee a
«iatl get the-better of his ambition, and despise
the honors he once poflefled—or is lie commonly
employed in projects upon projects, intrigues ast
ter intrigues, and manoeuvres on manoeuvres to
recover them ? So sweet and delightful to the hu
man heart is that complacency and admiration,
which attends public offices, whether they are
conferred by the favor of a Prince, derived from
hereditary descent, or obtained by election
people, that a mind mufl be funk below the feel
"iiffs of humanity, or exalted by religion or phi
lofnphy far above the common character of men,
to be insensible, or to conquer its sensibility. Pre
renfions to such conquests are not uncommon ; but
the fincetity of fitch pretenders is often rendered
fufpiciom, by their conllant conversation and con
duct, and even by their countenances. The peo
ple a; e fq Tenfible of litis, !hat a man in this pre
No. VII
SATURDAY, MAT 29, 1750.
dicainent is always on the rotnpailionate lift, and,
except in cases of great resentment against him for
foine very unpopular principles or behavior, they
arc found to be alwaysftudying fomeother office
for a disappointed man, to coi sole him in liis af
fliction. In short the theory of Education, and
the science ofgovernment nay be reduced to the
fame simple principle, and be all comprehended
in the knowledge of the nnus of activity, con
ducting, controiing and the emulation
and ambition of the citizens.
FROM THE UNITED STATES CHRVSIU.f..
MR. Wheeler,
LOOKING over some F.nglifli Magazines, I was ftrilck with
the following Extra# from a Pjmphht published in the year 1781,
by the Dean of Glouceifccr, entitled *' An Enquiry, what benejth
can arifc, to the Engli/h, the Americans, &c./rm thtgreatefl yulcrits
orfuccejjts in tht prejevt war." The predictions of the coji- '
cerntng our country are so far from being fulfilled, that the very ;
reverse has taken place—America is now united under a firm, !
efficient government, adminiftercd by her xhoiccli Son$ —her in- j
habitants are happy,---Agri ulture, Commctc: and Manufa&ures
are encouraged and encreafing—and in no country in the kno\yp
world are there k'fs enemies to the ejlabljhed Cover nment, or more
warm fupportcrs and friends to it.
A CITIZEN OF THE INITIO STATCJ.
Rehoboth, May 13, 1790.
" A Sto the future grandeur of America, and
n. its being a riling empire, underonehead,
whether republican or monarchical, it is one of
the'idlefl and molt visionary notions, that ever
was conceived even by writers of romance. For
there is nothing in the genius of the people, the
situation of their country, or the nature of their
different climates, which tends to countenance
such a supposition. On, the contrary, every
prognostic that ran be formed from a contem
plation of their mutual antipathies, and claiming
interests, their difference of governments, habi
tudes, and manners, plainly indicate, that the
Americans will have no centre of union among
them, and no common interest to pursue when
the power, and government of England are finally
removed. Moreover, when the interfecflious and
divifiom of their country by great bays ofthefea,
and by vafl- rivers, likes ridgmnf mountain*
and, above all, when those iuimenfe inland regi
ons beyond the back fetilements, which are dill
unexplored, are taken into the account, they
form the highest probability, that the Americans
never can be united into one compact empire, un
der any fpeciesof government whatever. Their
fate seems to be, « Sifunitcd People, till the end of
time. In short, the only probable supposition
can be formed of them at prsfent is this: that
being so very jealous in their tempers, so fufpici
011s and diftruftful of each other, they will be di
vided and subdivided into little commonwealths,
or principalities, according to the above mention
ed natural divisions, or boundaries of their coun
try ; and that all of them in general will be more
intent on profecutihgtheir own internal disputes
and quarrels, than desirous to engage in external
wars and diitant conquests. They will have nei
ther leisure, nor inclination, nor abilities, for
such undertakings."
FOR THE GALETTE, Of STATE*.
ON EMIGRATION.
" A GRICULTURE should be the main objecfl
jfl of inltuftry in such a country as ours.—
Lands, uncultivated, are like gold sleeping in the
mines—it is only culture that makes them valua
ble."—Why then Ihould our citizens spread them
selves over so immense a territory—why ihould
they emigrate to the wilderness, and leave ex
tensive regions behind them, in the neighbour
hood of their friends ; conveniently iituated to
export the produftsoftheir labor, and to acquire
the neceflaries and comforts of life—thofe vari
ous articles they have long been accuftonied to,
and which conllitute the richest ingredients in
the compofttion of animal existence.—" Why
fhouldll thou die before thy time" ? is an old en
quiry.—What is death but a privation of the com.
pany, friendlhip, and conversation of our old ac
quaintance and aflociates ?— Ihe sensations of
an ingenious mind on abandoning his former
lefideuce, to retire beyond the mountains to
pass the remainder of life, are little fliort of
those which rack the foul 011 the near prospect of
nature's diflolution.—Spirit and industry in cul
tivating the numerous tradts of fertile country in
the neighbourhood of the old states, would pre
vent the diflrcfs oC individuals, and fupercede
the neceflity of diitant emigrations for centuries
; to come.—
469
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, MAY 10.
On the proportion to increase the duty of Tonnage, on
foreign bottoms.
MR. JACKSON said, that he was one of the committee on
the petition before the House, hut that by some accident or
other he h.i<i not notice ot their fitting when they concluded on the
icport. He would however tax the numbers with any design,
buc fuppole it to have proceeded from the neglect of the meffcD
gerr
The object of ;he report terminated with him in three points of
view--— It might be coofidered in t{v. light of an addition to the
revenue—lt might be taken m a prohibitory or retaliating law—
5r it Vnight be tfortfidered as an additional encouragement to Ame
ican lhipbijig.
""r r o"
If it was to he considered a* an obje£l to produce revenue, th<
Houfc mould be careful riot to overcharge it, by ovtrcharginj
any article of revenue. It was an old maxim and a very just one
that frequently instead of two and two making four, two and tw<
made but one—This opeiafed with the House the laftfeflion, wher
a higher tonnage was proposed—The revenue on tonnage is it
fatt no other than a revenue on customs. for the freight is adder
to, or dedu&ed from the sale of the article paying that freight;
and the higher this tonnage is made the fewer vessels will entei
your ports, and of course the less will be the revenue coming intc
your treasury.
If it is meant as a prohibitory or retaliating law on other na.
tions,for not permitting your veflels to enter their ports ; si* observ
ed, that it should not have been brought in,in itsjprefent form—Th<
house (hould be manly and open, (hould ast up to the American
chara&er and inform the nations complained of, why it was done.
For what, he aflced, could be expe&ed from a law like the present
regulation, but counter rellridlions and regulations, and on whom
he a{kc4 would ihofe reftri&ions and regulations fall but on our
own ve(tc!s 7 Suppose, however, that it h?s its full effect, and th«»i
a prohibition is the consequence, what is to become of the pio
duce of our Country—ls the hand of industry to be flayed ?Is jt
to be arretted irt the hands of its owners ? \K ill the lumber cutter
reft fatisfied with your telling him that this prohibition is neces
sary for the encouragement of ship-building ? Will not his intci
<-ft compel him to complain, and fir, js not interest in some mea«
sure or other the principle Will he be fatisfied that
hi> intertft (hall be uegletted, and that the interrft of the ship
builder shall be regaided ? Will not the rice and the tobacco
planter hnve likewise reason to complain ?—For fir, if this pro
hibition is to take place, where is your flipping to carry oft the
i surplus of produce ? Sir, it is not in existence, the best situated
state with refpeft to (hipping, employs foreigners. That we had
not fufficient was conceded on all (ides of the House at
the last feflion, and particularly so, by forrie gentlemen of the
greatest abilities and knowledge. He did not know that thofc
gentlemen now would be of different sentiments, he hoped not—
he had no authority » flowfe it, but he would mention the
words of one or two of them to (hew the House what their opin
ions then were. An honorable gentleman near him from Virgi
nia (Mr. Madison) on the tonnage law, last feflion, had declared,
that 46 it was admitted on all hands, that America did not furnifli
(hipping fufficient for the transportation of her own produce,
and the apparent quantity would decrease from what it was re
presented to be, If gentlemen considered that the American veflels
mentioned in the custom-house reports, may clear three, four or
five times a year. This redu&ionof our (hipping serves only to
(hew the indifpenfiblc necessity of applying means to raise it up to
what it ought to be. But in doing this we ought to be careful in
avoiding any sudden or violent effect upon our commerce by the
rife of freight." Another gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
Fitzfimons) at that time had abfolutcly declared u dollar too great:
for the trade to bear—his words were " Then we will not adopt
such a duty as mud deter foreigners from coming amongst us un
til we are in better circumstances. If we lay a duty ot two-thirds
of a dollar per ton on nations in alliance, we cannot propose to
lay less than a dollar on those with whom we have not treaties. A
ship of 200 tons will then have to pay 200 dollars, a vry con
siderable expence, perhaps much more han our trade can Sear."
If then a dollar was too much for the trade to bear the last feflion,
can we have so soon changed our situation for the better," that our
trade will not feel it now—he could notfuppofe it.
Suppose it taken up in the last view he had mentioned as an ad
ditional encouragement to (hip-building. He would a(k what
encouragement was wanting.—He wiftied the house to examine
the relative situation of an American and a foreign ve(Tel. The
latter, if of two hundred tons, and entering our ports three times
a year paid three hundred dollars, whilst an American vessel if (he
entered our ports twenty times a year paid but her fix cents per'
ton, once in a twelve month, which would amount in a veflel of
that burthen to just twelve dollars. He begged the house to view
the immense difference, and then a(k if the payment of three
hundred dollars to twelve was not encouragement fufficient.—.
For his part he was at a loss to account for the application.—Fifty
cents the last year was thought fully fufficient ; one hundred is
fought for this feflion, and he had no doubt but the next another
petition would request two hundred. He could not tell how such
people were to be fatisfied, nor how far the length of such con
sciences would go.—He brliev d they would not be fatisfied with
any thing (hort of a total prohibition, and if they even poflefled
this total prohibition, they would be like the dog in the manger
—they could not eat the hay therafelves, nor would they fuffer
others to eat it. For the (kipping it was manifeft they did not
poflefs, nor was a fufficiency to be obtained in a moment. It was
not this House's declaring that American (hipping only (hould
cany the produce of America, that would produce this shipping
—time alone could effect it—it was granted that America could
build (hips cheaper than any other paitof the world—this ought
to be encouragement fufficient without this tonnage, and no doubt
would operate as such when merchants turned their attention that
way, and which their intcrefts would naturally lead them into.
The fa& was, that the American capitals which formerly were
turned to that branch had been diverted from their course during
the war, and would require time to return into their proper chan
nel, which he had not a doubt would be effected—but time and
time alone could do this. Here he would observe that an honora
ble gentleman from Connecticut (Mr. Sherman) had on a former
occasion argued dire&ly contrary to what he had yesterday de
clared. 1 hat gentleman, when the tonnage was then before the
noufe, had said •• that the policy of laying a high tonnage was at
heft a doubtful point. The regulation, he had observed, was cer
tainly intended as an encouragement to our own shipping, but if
this was not the consequence of the measure it must be an impro»
per one," Surely if it was • doubtful or an improper measure
[Whole No. 118.]the last feflion, it was so now : for the gentleman in his ftatc
ment of the reasons of the committee, had declared, that the com
mittee were not poffefTed of proofs with refpe& to the rcftri£ti
ons of other nations. Sir, (hall we {Tumble on in the dark with
out those proofs ? Shall we burthen a portion of our citizens
without ascertaining the neceflity of our doing so P Let us procure
those proofs—let us have evidence of this encouragement's being
wanting, previous to our.laying this additional weight. But, Sir,
"who has a right to complain on this occasion ; the merchants of
Poitfmouth or the merchants of Savannah ? Let us compare the
grievance of tonnage in the two places. New-Hamp(hire, Sir,
pays of foreign tonnage the amount of 469 dollars and fifty cents ;
a mighty sum indeed ; from thenoife made about it an indifferent
person might suppose it fufficient to fatisfy the national debt.
The state of Georgia, which on a former occasion was supposed
barely capable of defraying the travelling expenccs of their mem
bers, pays of foreign tonnage 2600 dollars 17 cents—a difference
Scarcely to be coinparcd.
A gentleman from North-Carolina, (Mr. Williamfon) had fup
poited the report, but hoped it never would be adopted on the
principles of establishing a navy. Mr. Jackson observed that his
icafons feemcd to be the keeping the carrying trade within our
feives. Sir, it is a doubt with me if the carrying trade is benefi
cial to the United States; if it enriches individuals it certainly does
not the community; writers on trade divide it into three branches,
thehome or coasting trade, which is allowed to be the mod bene
ficial to the nation ; the foreign trade which is next beneficial, and
the carrying trade which is not at all beneficial, unless it be as a
nursery for feamen—dircftly oppofitc to the sentiments of the gen
tleman. The carrying trade is thereforet ery beneficial to coun
tries dependent on their navies—it is said to be particularly so to
Great-Britain : but, fir, is our interest the fame with the intcrefl
of that nation ? Docs our national importance and even our very
security depend as hers does on the strength of her fleets? If inva
ded (hall we look to a navy for protest on ? No, fir, to the agri
cultural interest—to the hardy sons of the Weft—to the Ameri
can yeomanry we (hall appeal and we (ball there find support.
The carrying trade is of no great consequence to us, nor is it to
many other countries; it is taking a produttive capital from the
nation it belongs to, to be employed in the service and carrying
the surplus produce of other countries. The most celebrated wri
ters have declared even in Great-Britain, that the coal trade from
Newcastle to London is the most beneficial that nation is concern
ed in With us, fir, the whole coasting trade is in the hands of
our fellow citizens, where I wrJh it to remain, as I think it high
ly advantageous, and this of itfelf is a very great encouragement
But Sir, if we examine, I believe, on the principle of encour
agement what we have done,it will be found|fufficient. I have in
my hands, Sir, some paragraphs of newspapers (which he read.)
By these, Sir, it appears, that (hip-building is most rapidly ad
vancing—a vessel is now building at Boston of 900 tons, one at
Salem of 1100 and 22 at Philadelphia of upwards of 250 tons
each. What more that branch of mechanics would want, lam at
a loss for—unlefs they with more work than they have hands- to
accompli(h ; for I fancy if it was to be much more increased, they
must fend to other countries for the workmen. It is jnft the fame
with arts and manufactures—they arc every where extending
thcmfelvcs, and no doubt owing to the ample encouragement giv
en last feflion. Shall we then, if we find the encouragement al
ready given fufficient, be still adding to the burthens of the fouth
crn states ? Will not they have a right to fay that they are not at
tended to; because they are not clamorous with petitions, (hall
they be saddled with additional weights? It (hould be remem
bered, that there is not to this day,a fmgle petition for anyone
request from the citizens of the state of Georgia before CongTcfs,
whilst other states have brought before the house a number which
wonld take three fcflions to decide on—because (he wus modest,
was (he to be imposed on ? He hoped her still voice would at least
draw some attention. He believed that the southern states were a
good milch cow to the Union, but he trusted if the Union milked
her, they would not ride her at the fame time—the additional ton
nage appeared to him to be doing this.
He concluded with reminding the gentlemen (Mr. Madison,
Mr. Fitzfimons, Mr. Sherman and Mr. Lawrance)of their former
sentiments, and trusted he (hould not now find them avowing o
pinions contrary to them.
TUESDAY, May 25•
Mr. V 1 n1 n g having voted in the affirmative on the queflion,Whether
Mr. Gale's motion for the Committee* f rijing, and reporting the twelve
feSHons ojthe Funding Bill, in order to their being discharged, as in
our lafl, i oft and obferi>ed. That as the vote he had now given
en might appear in confident with his past condutt on this great
question, it became neccffary that he (hould fay something on the
oecafion. He said he was a warm advocate in favour of the as
sumption of the state debts, agreeable to the plan proposed by the
Secretary of theTreafur) —the whole of that report was valuable ;
he (hould regret losing any part of it—and he had full confidence
that the measure of alfumption would be finally adopted—at pre
sent however lie considered the objett of the bill before the Com
mittee, independent of the bill proposed to be annexed, as of pri
mary consequence to the United States.—He tho't the two objects
might be fiparated ; and he was not willing bv grasping at a lha
dow to lose the substance.—He thought the aflTuinption might be
brought forward with propriety in the form of a resolution—and
he would pledge himfelf do it.—He thought this would comport
with the idea of the Secretary.—
Mr. Sedgwick Jaid that the gentlemen in favor of ihe alfumption were
very unfortunate in not being able to unite in the means oj obtaining an
cbjetl, which they not only approve, but cohfider as necrjfary to the execu
tion of juflice, and important to the welfare and happiness of this coun
try. That a great majority of those who were infavor of the mea
sure, thought it ought to be provided for before the funds /hould be es
tablished which are tofecure the prefcrvation of public credit. That o
tker gentlemen were of opinion that there was no natural counettion, and
that therefore the fubjefls should be separated. That he himfelf was of the
former opinion.
He said it had been often offer ted and to his remembrance never denied,
that the State debts werefo unequal, that in some States it would be found
impracticable to make an adequate provision for them, and at the fame
time for those States to contiibute their equal proportion to the national
treasury. That these circumflances were well known to those men to
zuhom the people would commit the adminijlration of their State govern
ments ; In this fituati-on what meajures would the duty and intciefl of
these men induce them to pursue ? Unqueflionably, without delay, by the
best means lu their power, to adoJ& a fyflem jor the prefcrvation of pub
lic faith. Suchfyflem and that to be adopted by this government could
rot concurrently be earned into execution ; the one or the other mufi fail;
ioth were the measures of governments depending on popular opinion.—
That it ought to be a fubjett oj enquiry therefore, which would mofl pro
bably he the objeCl of popular affettion ; here a knowledge of a few fattr
would be Jufficieni to determine the judgment. He said he/poke only xrf
Mjffachufetts because his knowledge of faEls on this fubjett, did not ex
tend beyond it—that in that State a very great proportion of the national
Je> urities had been alienated, and that at a very low slate of depreciation.
The purchasers of thefefecurities, from principles well known and which
are infeparablefrom the human heart were not the objefls of affectionate
regard ; the fijlem therefore which is to secure this debt cannot itfelf be
popular. On the other hand, the State debt having had the interefl regu
larly paid for some time, and at no time being without any provision
for that purpof, had much the greater part of it remained in the hands
cf the original holders. It was djlributed throughout every part of the
State, and in every village and neighborhood there remained a grateful
recolleflion of the merit of those Jervices which were rendered as the con
federation for the exifling demands againfl the government ; that from a
cool and iiifpa/fionate rejledion on Ihefe faEls, gentlemen would be able
with certainty to preditt,,without a Jpiritof prophccy, the ijfue of a legif
laiive cpzttnjion on this ground between the national aid State govern-
Vtc ».ts.
Mr.Se&uUk fdia that to his mind there wis a'n inexpiuabie miflery
in the condutt ofgentlemen who declared themselves in favor of the af
\fumption, and that they confide red it irrelative to the Jubjett of funding
the debt, and yet declined giving the reasons on which such an opinion was
founded. That he ardently zofhed the gentlemen would condescend to
give the explanation their fijtnds requested ; hitherto they h*id myfleri
oufly declined to do it. He requefled thai they would bepleafd to remem
ber that a very conftderable majority of thoje who are in favor oj the mea-
Jure,fuppofed the debts contracled by the States for the support of the war,
to be the proper debts oj the United States. Jj this was a well founded
opinion thete could not pojjibly exifl a doubt, out they should be added to
the lifl which already contained many different species of fecurities —
that now was certainly the proper time to determine whether that opinion
was jujl or erroneous.
Hefurtherobferved thatthis was the proper t me to determine on this fub
jefl from another very luportant confideratiOn—-if the State debts are af
fumedy alt the sources of revenue without violence or injujhee, will be at
the dijpofa! and under the controul of this government. J hat without the
ajjumptionyJeizing on those u-hich are necessary to fee tire the mtrrejl of the,
State debts, would be in the extreme both violent and unjifl. That a tax.
Jor inflance on spirituous liquors zvas for many reajons proper and would
be in a great degree productive; that notwithflanding should that article,
under the pre lent cncumflances be excised. it would b: putting this govern
on a competition, to which he believed it would be found unequal.
Mr. Sedgwick further observed that the gentleman Jrom Virginia
(Mr. Madison) at a time when he had not the happiness to be prejeut,
at the end of eight weeks debate on this fubjczl, during which time he
had remained only a silent hearer, had come forward in a speech, which
had bet n given to the public, and he was informed with great accuracy—
that by means of dfhargmgy immediately afterwards the committee J torn
the further const deration of the fubjefl % no answer had been given to it ;
that this speech ushjichhe feared was defgned to make an unjair and un
due tmprejfion on the public was a performance in his opinion com
posed of unfounded jacls % monflrous premises and incovcl five deductions ;
that it would well become the magnanimity of the gentleman and tfe par
tiality of his friends to permit a full examination[of his argument that it
might jujlly be determined haw J*r it deserved the char nil er he had im
puted to it.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 26.
Mr. Gilmfen in forced the House that yesterday
the joint committee of both Houses waited on the
Preudent of the Uaited States and presented the
following bills :
An A<ft to prescribe the mode in which the pub
lic records, ami judicial proceedings in each
State, (hall be authenticated so as to take efFetfl in
every other State.
An A<sc to provide for mitigating or remitting
the forfeitures and .penalties accruing tinder tbe
revenue laws in certain cases therein mentioned.
An Act to continue in force an Act parted at the
last feflion of Congress, entitled an Act to regu
late procedes in the Courts of the United States.
An A(ft for the government of the territory of
the United States, South ofthe river Ohio.
A meflage was received from the President of
the United States informing the House that he
had given his aflent to the two firft of the above
A(fts. The other two originated in the Senate.
Mr. Page made a motion which was fecondcd
by Mr. Parker, that the committee ot the whole
be discharged from any further confuleration of
the bill respecting the Stale of Rhode-Island, arid
added the following observations :
Mr.PAG"E. Sir, I rife to move that thecommit
teeof the whole be discharged from confiderin"
the bill refpetting die State of Rhode Island, which
originated in the Senate—and hope that it will
by the house be rejected—for I think, as the Con
vention of that State is to lit in a few days we
should have nothing before Congress which could
tend to influence their choice ofthe Constitution
under which|they are to live. It peculiarly behoves
this House, as Representatives of Republican
States, which have always aflerted their rights to
judge for themielves in all cases which interest
ed them as freemen—which adopted the plan of
government after mature deliberation, unbiafled
by any such motives as the bill alluded to holds
out to Rhode Island 1 I fay it becomes this House
therefore to take care that their filler State now
about to consider of the propriety of adopting the
Constitution, shall be as free to judge for herfelf
as was any ot her State in the Union-Should this
bill pass, ami fliould Rhode-Island adopt the Con
ftitution, (lie will come with so bad a grace into
the Union, that (he mull: be afliained when (he en
ters it, and the independent Stares must blufli
when they receive her—She will be laughed at
by the majorities in the other States, an<?defpi
fed by the minorities—How fir this may tend to
strengthen the Union let those who favor the bill
judge. She would be in the situation of a sol
dier preft into the service, looked upon as un
worthy to be ranged with the volunteers—f u s.
peeled of an inclination to desert, till perhaps
indeed it may become her interest, like his to do
so, and to art vigorouily against those who had
mfulted her.
Surely Sir, it becomes this House to pity the
3fia 'S norant > who know not
the blessings of our New-Government, to forgive
the perverse and wicked who oppose it from base
principles, and to (hew a generous indulgence to
that jeaious, cautious republican Spirit, which in
deed we should clierilh and revere. Let rhk
House manifeftfuch adifpofition, and I will ven-
Rhode
.fland will find it her intereftto unite with States
poflefling fucli magnanimity—her rights /he will
fee can never be violated, and her true interests
never can be neglerted; but Sir, if we (hew that
we are more anxious to com pleat the numbers of
our States than to preserve inviolate the rights
of freemen, and the principles of the late glori
ous revolution if we are more folicious to rfftri A
imuggltng than to extend the benign influence of
our New Constitution, through
I flan d, as well as through the twelve other States,
470
wliat can tliat State expect from a union
States thusdifpofed ? But if v; 6 not only mani.
feftly Ihew thisdifpofmon, but alio a malevolence
resembling that which Great Britain flawed when
(he in her rage to answer her revenge, and ex
tend her despotic power over America, flint up
the port of Boston, hoping to starve into fubniii
fion its virtuous citizens—Must not th«
Islanders, like the Boltonians detest the cruel a r
tempt, resent it, and by their tefentnienr, may
not the consequences be too much like
followed in the cafe alluded to ? May tfcey no
be applauded by true Republicans thr6iigWa' th
world ? May they not be fuppoi ted by the ene
mies of our peace ? "
Sir, they will take advantage of every circui-
Ranee which may afford them an importunity of
gratifying their envy or revenge. There is ~e '.
haps but one nation upon earth, which wilh's '
fee these Stares fiourilh in peace, and it may no
be long before flxe may think that our growing
greatness may interfere with hers. Let us
therefore run the risk of endangering the
and harmony of the United States—Let us i-r
even wound the feelings of a filler State—'etui
not expose ourselves to the charge of inconf te, -
cv, impropriety, raihneis, and cruelty, hue b
us to avoid rhofe charges, discharge the committee
of the whole, take up the bill in the House and
reject it at once—leaving Rhode Island u:\binficil
(by any thing Congrefscan do) to adopt or reject
the Constitution, as they may think proper If
they adopt it the bill will be unne-efiary— !f'-h y
Ihould reje<fi it, then let us leave them on a foot,
ing with foreigners—they are allies at prefrjv
and Should be treated as such. But it is laid o
revenue is in danger. Sir, take my advice an I
you will make it the interest of Rhode Island i»
unirewith us, or at leal! lay her under an highob
ligation not to lmuggle ; but go on with the bii!
ana you force her to smuggle—nay, perhsps rj
be your enemy forever. States in Europe ad
joining each other, (hew us, that this bil
neceflary. It would be thought madness there,
to interdict all commercial intercourse of neigh!
boring States, merely with a view to prevent
i mugglilvg—lt would 1 bel ie% e too be looked upon
as equal to a declaration of war.
Sir I lament that this bill has been committed,
but if it fliould now be taken up and rejected, it
will be doing all that can be done—and will (hew
that as soon as the attention of the House was
turned to it, a proper regard was (hewn fur the
rights of freemen, i his bill is too inconfiftegt
with the character the Representatives of thifr
States ought to lupport—it has too much the ap.
pearance of certain Britirti acts of Parliament,
which our conftituerits have execrated. Surely
Si«> the Representatives ot M:\flachufetts, aiuil
unite with me in opinion, that such a bill AmU
not be committed—The Members of States which
applauded the glorious spirit of that State in op
position to a similar a<£t, who rilked their all in
her support, and thereby acquired liberty and
immortal honor, will, I trust, vote with me—and
surely the States which came late into tlieUnioii (
and such as adopted the Conllitution by a final}
majority, will consider that the cafe of Rlvode.
Island, might have been their own—Surely even
those, if such there be aniongft us, who think that
devoted State to be as Britirti Miniftersfaid Ame
rica was, a nest of miscreants, will allow that it
will be inhuman topunilh the innocent with the
guilty. I think therefore that the bill deserves
not the (auction of this honfe—that it is impoli
tic and unjust—l hopethe committee will be dis
charged, and the bill taken up for a third read
ing, and rejected, time enough, to leave the Con
vention of Rhode-Island free to adopt theCoufti"
tution or reject it as they may pleale.
Let us consider with what indignation the Con
vention of any of the States, which we represent,
if about to fit on such an occasion, would have re
ceived such an A<t of Congress—would they not
have protested against it, as an itifult, and ad
journed without deliberating on the favorireCon
ftitution Is there a man in this house were he
in (uch Convention, who would not agree tofuch
protest and adjournment ? But Sir, Tet us confi
• <lefi S n bill : If it be intended to
induce the State of Rhode Ifl-tnd to come into the
Union, I think I have (hewn that it is badly cal
culated to answer thatjpurpole—and ifintended so
p: event finuggling, I think I have (hewn that it is
more likely to produce that evil, than to prevent it.
.~ Inot ' oll be agreed to, no inconvenience
can arise, but much inifchief may be prevented.
I hope therefore that the House will agree with
me, that the committee of the whole be dischar
ged, and will not leave such a bill hanging over
the heads of the people of Rhode-Hland, which
nui put them into a situation different from that
° any, other State in the Union when they adopt
ed the Constitution—Let it not be said, Sir, I
con jure this House, that the confederated Repub
lics of America have united upon any otherprin.
cip e than that of a free and perfect conviction
of the excellence of their federal plan of govern
ment—Let it not be said that fear had any (hare
in bringing even the fmalleftftate into the Union
Let us not treat a filler (late in the very man
ner we disdained to be treated by Great Britain.Several gentlemen observed on the improprie
ty of the motion, as the bill was made the order
of a future day—next Monday—and Mr. Parker
having withdrawn his second, the motion subsi
ded.
The House took np the report of the commit
tee of the whole, on the funding bill. The firft
queftionwas to discharge the report of the com
mittee from further proceedings on the said bill-
This was agreed to.
The amendments proposed by the committee
to the bill were next taken* into confederation,
and agreed to.—The clause for funding the con
tinental money beingfirft amended, by altering
tlierateof receivingthe fame from 100 dollars of
thefaid money, for one dollar in specie, to 75 for
I. This proposition produced f>me debate, and
was decided by the ayes and noes.
Messrs. Ames, Benfon, Boudinot, Burke, Cadwallader, Fitzfi
nions, Floyd) tofti'r, (.*3> ■*, Gerry, Gilni.in t Goodhiif, Griffin,
Grout, Hathorn, Hu<;er, Huntington, Leonard, Livermorc, Par
tridge, Ranlelhcr, Srhureman, Sedgwick, Sherman, Smith (M
Sllveftcr, Sturgrs.Sumpter, Thatcher, Tucker, Wynkoop.— 31. '
NOES. '
MeiTrs. Aflie, BMdwin, Bloodwonh, Carroll,Coles, Contee Hart
ley, Heifter, Jackson, Lawrencc, Lee, Madifoo, Matthews, Moore
P. Muhlenberg, Pa<;e, S, o', Seney, Sinnickfon, Smith, (S C )
Steele, Stone, Trumbull. Wlute, WlUiamfofi.— 25. '
A further provision was then moved for, that
interest should be computed on the said bills from
the day of
This also caused fomc debate, and was decided
by ayes and noes.
McflVs. Ames, Foster, Gerry, Guman, Goodhu-, Grout, Ha
thorn, llug - r,L!onard, Livermore, Partridge, Sedgwick, Sumpter,
Thatcher, Tucker.—ls.
MeflYs. Afhc, Baldwin, Benfon, Bloodworth, Boudinot, Burke,
Cndwallader, Carroll, Coles, Confer, Kitzfimons, Hoyd, Gale,
Gnfhn, Hartley, Hoßer, Huntington, Jnckfon, Lawrance, Lee
Madifon,Matthews, Moore, Muhlenberg,Page, Parker, Ranl'ellaerl
Schureman, Scot, Senry, Slicrman, Silvcller, Sinntckfon, Smith
(M.) Smith, (S. C.)Steele, Stone, Sturges, Trumbull, White, W.l
liamfon, Wvnkoop. 4;.
THURSDAY, May 27.
A motion was made by Mr. Carroll, that the fe
deral reports froin the Secretary of the Treasury,
the Secretary at War, and the Coinmiflioners for
fettling the accounts between the United States
and individual Hates, ihould be printed. This
motion occasioned a debate ; and on the quellion
to agree to the fame, it was negatived—ayes 27--
noes 29.
In Committee of the whole, on the funding
bill 6
Mr. Heifter moved that so much of the third
section as refperts funding the Indents fliould be
llruck out—this motion was supported by Mr.
Jackson, Mr. Williamfon and Mr. Page—Mr.
Hcilter, gave a statement of certain fa£ts rela-.
tive to the fitnation of Pemilylvania, in regard
to Indent; —and enforced the proprietv of his
motion in a speech of confiierable length The
motion was opposed by Mr. Sherman, °Mr. Fitz
fimons, Mr. Gerry, and Mr. Vining—and on the
quellion being put, it was negatived, 10 or n
members only riling in favor of it.
On motion ofMr.Kritzfinjons, the fertion refpeft
ingthe non-fubferibing creditors was amended by
inserting these words " including the interelt to
the last day of December next."—l he bill was
then ordered to be engrolled for a third reading
011 Monday next.
Mr. Boudinot read a number of resolutions, in
favor of the a (Turn pt ion of the State debts (in
fubltance Mr. Gerry's late propofitiou)— these
were laid on the table.
Mr. Fitzfimons read the following—which was
laid on the table, viz. Resolved, that Cougrefs
will meet and hold their next feflion at Philadel
phia.
A mefl'age was received from the Senate, in
forming that'they have palled " an act providing
the means of intercourse between the United
Statesand foreignnations," with one amendment.
Alio that the President of the United States has
given his aft'ent to the atft to continue in force the
ast to regulate procefles in the Courts of the Uni
ted States—and the a<fl for the government of the
Territory south of the river Ohio.
The above amendment was to strike out the
claules which fpecify the officers to be employed
aoroad, and the salaries to each leave the
application of the sum appropriated by the bill to
the I rcftdent of the United States. On the
fjueltion to agree to this amendment the Ayes
and Noes were demanded, and are as follow :
„ AYES.
icffrs. Ames, Benfon, Cadwallader, Gale, Goodhue, Griffin,
« "'u y ,'c cr ' Hu " tin g r °n. Lawrance, Lee, Parker, Partridge,
imtn, C.J Stone, TrUmbull, Vining, Wynkoop. 18.
NOES.
11 r f" Bloodworth, Boudinot, Brown, Burke, Car-
■ Coles, Contee, Fitzfimoni, Floyd, Foster, Gerry, Oilman,
Hathorne. Hoger, Jackson, Leonard, Livcnnorc,Madifon,
Matthews, P. Muhlrnburg, Moore, Page, Ranlellear, Schurejnan,
Scot, Stney, Sherman, Sylvester, Sinnickfon, Steele,
»"»*«. baicber, Tucker, White, Williamfon, 38.
Mr. Steele's motion on the fubjec't of amend
ments was taken up.
The motion was divided—and the fiift part,
Pe&ing the appointment of a committee to ex
amine and report the decisions of the several
•Stateson the amendments proposed by Congress
to the Condi tut ion of the UnitedStates,was agreed
to, and Mr. Steele, Mr. Moore, and Mr. Contee,
AYES.
AYES.
NOES.
were appointed—The other part, reflecting ad
ditional amendments was negatived.
rJr i" 'f d the fol,ow ing on the table.
Kefolved, by the Senate and House of Reprefen
madTb t C 1/ . tre . aties mac!e . °r which (hall be
made by the United States, be pnbli/hed, and an
nexed to the Laws of the United States.
received the Senate,
that they had pasTed Baron Steuben's bill, with
amendments. The said amendments were laid
on the table. The Senate propose to increase the
annuity fr om 2000 to 2JOO dollars-and to difal
lowthe payment of the 7000 dollars.
Adjourned.
FRIDAY, MAY 28,
mittee th f e ho '" fe - th « vefterday the join, com-
STn fl f " Panted to the Tref,dent of the United
I. '"' P a sor L the encouragement of learm.g by fecurin ff th
off rh° PS j and bo ° ks t0 the au, hors and proprietors
of such eop.es, thcr ei„ m< , ntian ed. P
Alfofcveral resolutions refpe&mg arrears of pay due to officers
and fold,en of the Virg.nia and N. Carolina line, of the late army
ed Thi! I'"' motion of Mr. Gerry, in substance, wasadopu
nlo J rTn 3yeS and n,,e a™ called on a particular
* qUfft '° n ent " ed °°
Mr. Boudinot moved that the refolul.onj refpeaing the as
jumpt.on of, he State debt', which * W on the table yefterrlav
lhmild now be taken into confidcration fiy ,he Houfr,
I his motion was negatived-—25 to 10.
Mr. Gerry then moved that they fliould be taken up on Mon
tion7„ X j l n f, C ,T rn 'T? , the wholf - Mr - P'rkeroppofed this,no.
tion,and alter several observations in oppofitior to the
wh V o^onVh th^U^a^ oU,d bC
Mr Lrr In T Monday inDeccmber next; a longdebate en turd.
Monday for,night"" ' V ' nd M '' LivCrmort »«'
The firft Monday in December, and next MonHay fortnight
werepu, and negated. Next Monday week was finally .greed
oft?; whole'houfe ," e t0 b = «*« «P by the committee
W ! j f P r opoftd by the Senate to the bill for aditift-
J litiifyingilie claims of Frederick William de Steuben
W ffK Fe uV a Goodhue movcd the consideration there.
Mfrd'hM P ° ftp ° ned to the next fcffion - This motion was op.
posed by Mr. Gerry, Mr, Vining, Mr. Smith (S. C.) Mr Page
Mr. Carroll and Mr Livermore, and being put was negat.ved '
Ihc fc " ra ' amendments were agreed to. That which propo-
? fter 8 out the 7000 dollars, to add 5 00 dollars to the
annuity, was on motion of Mr. Thatcher, determined by aves
and noes. AYES
BenfoK, Boudmot. Burke, Cadwallader, Carroll C/v
---nter, Coles, Contee, Fitzfmons, Floyd, Gale, Gerry, Hartley, Heiffer Hu
ger,Huntington lawrance, Lee, Liver more, Moore, Muhlenberg h, Page
%'\'r,Scot, Syhejler, Smith, (5. CjTrmtull, Tucke,, Vming, Wh te
Wynkoop. 32. NOES. S
Me/frs, A/he, Baldwin, Bloodworth, Brown, Ft/ler, Oilman, Good
hue, Griffin, Grout, Hathornt, Jackson, Leonard, Partridge, Ranfel
laer, Schtreman, Seney, Sherm.cn, S'.nnickfon, Snuth, (U.) Steele, Stone
Sturrtu Sumpter, Thatcher, Williamfon. 45. ' '
Hie House took up the report on the memorial of Nathaniel
I wining—and after some debate, agreed to the fame
A message was received from the' Senate, with the bill provid
ing the means of intercourse between the United State, and foreirn
nations, and informing thr House that thrv infill on their amend
mentjto-faid bill- Mr. Smith (S.C.I moved that the house should
recede from the.r d.fagrerraent; this motion was warmly oppo
led and finally determined in the nejative by aves and noes
AYES.
Mejfri Amr<, W, T«i4«, Origin, Hm .
tinpm, Uurnce.Lee, Parker, Paring?, Uith (S. C.) Stone, Trum
bull, hung, Wynkoop. 15.
„*#' A J he ' JSaliu ' iH . RMwtrtk, Barit, Coles, Conlee, Fitzjimms,
F '°yf foftr, Gerry, Gilmaii, Grout. Hirtlev, Harhorne, Huger
fackfon, Leonard, Lwrmore, Mail fori, Matthews, Moore, Page
Ranjeltaer Schuremau, Scot, Seney, SHerman, Sylve/ier, Smnickhn',
,u'!, ' , ' St " r S"' S ""y> Sumpter, Thatcher, Tucker, White,
iVilliLimjon. 37.
The House then voted thit they inGft on their difWreemetn to
the amendment.
A motion was then made to appoint a committee of conference
This was negatived.
Mr. Stone laid the following motion, in fuhftance, on the table
viz. That the committee of the whole h» discharged from attend!
mg to the " bill for repealing the duties on Wines, Teas, Sec and
laying others in their dead," and that said bill be referred to a fe
lcft Committee, who are to be inftrufted to report such duties as
in their judgment may be adequate to the payment of the interest
on the foreign and domestic debt of the United Statet; and for
the fupportof government—without interfering withthc revenues
which may be appropriated by the refpeflive states for paying the
interest on their particular debts, and the fupportof their govern
ments. (Adjourned till Monday, 10 o'clock.j
THE TABLET. No. CXVIII.
" There are fame per forts whose congeniality ofcharader is such, that
they need only to fee each other toJom immediately theJlrideJ} intimacy."
THOSE circumstances in which men resemble each other are
not more numerous or more evident, than those in which they
d ifagree. The poinu of refcmblance are fufEcient to designate the
human race from any other class of beings, arid to give them a
fpecific chara&er. The great outlines of human natiTre are so con
stant and uniform, that we can never mistake them, however they
may be modified by climate or education. But though we ire in
no danger of millaking any part of our Ipecies through a want of
obvious similarity; we are (till liable to strong antipathies, from
various instances of diftimilarity. Some men appear to be like the
reft of their species in very few refpe&s. There is so little con
geniality of ch.)rafter between them and other men, that they can
never form any intimacy or acquaintance. Thiscircumftatvcefim
plydoesnot prove a man to be belter or worse than the general
run of mankind : Itonlyfhews that he hat too strong peculiari
ties to authorize an high degree of intimacy.
Why has one person a great number of intimate aflociates, while
another has few or none? This may happen where both sustain a
reputation equally fair ; and where both are situated equally fa
vorable to cultivate friendlhip. It is becauie one person more
than another finds his character congenial to those with whom he
may chance to be acquainted. Some men can make an intimate
companion of almost any person whom accident may throw in
thyr way. We denominate such very familiar men. They have
tio peculiarities of difpofitiort to make them critical in the choice
of theit aflociates; nor have they anjNfingularities of charackr to
make them disgusting to others. Meiri>f such an easy temper and
accomraodatiiigmanners pass through the world, without ever be
ing ipuch refpeQed, or much hated. But there are persons of a
different (lamp who can find none, with whom they can eafilyaf
fimilate. They are exactly the reverse of what I have just called
familiar men. A refcrved disgust most commonly happens from
a want of congeniality of character. If this is a prevailingquality
in any individual it is an evidence, not that he is a bad or a good
man, bat that the impulses «f his foul do not vibrate m sympathy
with those of other people.
471
NOES.
laws of the'united states.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES :
AT THE SECOND SESSION,
BC oflan" d Jv 1 „ t t , k he TZ "/ NtW YOrk - 0n Monds * the fourth
ot January, onethoufand seven hundred and ninety.
A " kr T .i° P ! ' efcribe the .node In which the
P u Records »and [ndicial Proceedings
i.i each state /hall be authenticated so as u»
take efFe<ft in every other state.
B W V* »/'he Uni
#* AW . That the AOs of th,
r n™ (fi»Hr>e suthenticated by havin£
ind thcreto ; ,h " thc *«"<«»
l ' PIOCCCd 'P " he Courls ° r '"y proved
teft'lion of ,he r? " thcr . C <»'V: th ' n the Unlred Stat « h > "'"- *-
bea Hi Clerk* and the fad „f th- Court annexed, it there
be a leal, together with a certificate of the Iud C r, Chief luftice
or-prefidmg Morale, as the cafe may be, that the said attefb.
nl, , k , Ue T ' a r nd r hC / ,id RcCOrds ani Judicial Proceed-
authenticated as aforefa.d, (hall have such faith and credit
g.vcitothem in every Court within the United States, ai they
have by law or usage m the Courts of the State from whence the
said records are, or (hall be taken.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBURC
muM ._ . "* H ""f e °f faprcfebtativcs
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United Stat"
. . , a »A Prejtient of the Senate.
Approved May twinty-si xth 1700
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Pref dent of the United Su Us .
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
u t0 contin . ue in Force an Ast passed at
the last SelTion of Congress, intitled, " An Atifc
to regulate Procefle? in the Courts of the Uni
ted States."
D E it"taßed hy the Senate andHoufe of Representatives of the United
,Ty '', '■) Am "' CJ tn Congress atembled, That the afi, intitled
An att to regulate process in the court! of the United States "
P>«cd on the twenty-ninth day of September last, (hall be, and
the lame is hereby continued in force, until the end of the next
lemon ot and no longer.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG.
2"'''"f ,/le House of Reprefcntativer.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prfder.t of the United State*.
and PrefiJtnt of the Senate.
Approved, May twenty-sixth i»r*o
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prefdent of the United Ttates,
(irl'i Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
BOSTON, May ai, 1790.
SHIP NEWS.
OaTkurOay laji, the Sh,p s President Wajkington, Opt. Nidc/.10,,
C r P !\ D ° W f'> thz Eajl-tniies. Th f \u.
mar,tf t) "A H'' mi tke faen/!tk and ieautv of the z„orh
NEW-YORK, SATURDAY, MAY 29.
n L T h J e , Sl !'. P Harmony Capt. IVillet is arrived at
Philadelphia from Bengal.—Accounts from the
tall-Indies Stare—there is a most pleafinn; pro
fpetf: of a plentiful harvest in that part of the
world—that Cotton has fold so low as 1 r Tales
in China—that the Englifli/ settlements enjoy a v
profound peace—that the greatest part oftrea
fure on board the Vanfittart one of the Eaft-In
idea company's Ships lately loft, had been re
covered from the wreck—that the ship Durham
Capt. Kepiing ; and another ship were loft in a
gale of wind, foundering in the road—that
Tippoo Sultan to ptmjfh the faults of some of the
tributary Princes had depopulated and laid waste
their conntry from Belipatam to Callicut, an ex
tent of 80 or 90 miles, where the late pofleflors of
its fields and habitations arefeen no more.
The Hon. Peter Sylvester is re-eletfled a
member of the House of Reprefentaiives of the
United States—and the Hon. James Gordon is
chosen to serve in the fame hon. branch of the
next Congress.—
On Tuefdaylaft.died at Jerjcho on Long-Island,
the hon. James Townfend, who was lately elert
ed a member of the House of Representatives of
the United State*.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW.YORK-
Ship William and Robert, Woodhoufe, Bristol, 7 weeks.
Schooner Betsey, Squires, St. Martins, 17 days.
Polly, Todd, St. Thomas, 17>day»-
Polly, Man, Edenton, (N. C.) 5 days.
Sloop Rainbow, Corre, New Providence, 10 days.
Saratoga, Thrasher, Charleston, 14 days.
(£3" The INDEX to the firft volume of the Gazette of the Uni
tr S '^lc,' beginning April > 5 , 1789, .nd ending April 14, 1700.
is ready to be delivered gratis, to those Subscribers who pio
pole to have the numbers bouod.
vy ANTED Immediately, a Man as an Oilier, one that „
V V loberand can be well recommended, will meet with
couragernem, and find steady employment, by applyW to the
Su^ fcr ' b ". ARCHER GIFFORq C
j None but a sober person, and one well reco m ' „ n j.j
need a PP'y- Newark, May 29, , ?
PUBLISHEDLONDON, March 28.
From the French National Gazette.
THE schemes of the Sciota company become
more alarming. More efficacious means
than those proposed by M. Maulu ought to be a
dopted if we would effe<sually rid France of this
iiuifance. If the gentlemen, who have Opened
the office under the ~3iredtion of the Sciota com-
pany,are foreigners,the befl treatment they ought
to expetft is to be ordered to depatt the kingdom
■within eight days, as persons guilty of violating
the laws of nations. If they are Frenchmen they
ought to be brought to trial as fubjedts charged
■with the crime of treason againlt the nation. —
!No pretence whatever can jultit'y a further fuf
ierance. A company avowedly formed to depo
pulate this country, ought not to be allowed two
days existence in France. [Notivithjtaiding the
extreme jealousy of the Pariftam in refpeci io the emi
gration of their countrymen to the United States, it is
thought they might part withfever al thou funds of them
■without cc/ifideratle detriment. That the National
Afewiily view the matter in this light is evident from
the late arrivals of French emigranti in the Pctoiomac.]
The following is translated from a late Paris Daily
Gazette.
It is highly proper and laudable for the United
States of North America to make agriculture and
commerce the foundation of their power ; and it
is possible we may charge theni unjustly when we
lav, we have reason to fufpe<ft that they have no
objection to depopulating France, provided they
could thereby advance their own population —
a measure which would not be permitted even by
nations actually in a ltate of hoftilicy with each
other. Is it then possible to suppose that the A
merican States mean to make so ungrateful a re
turn to France, for the succour (he has afforded
them ?
" An association, however, knowii by the name
of the Sciota company, actually exists in Paris, who
have opened an office in New-Street (RueNeuve)
No. 162. This company have already printed
and published adveriifements, the sole design of
which is to persuade the French to emigrate to
N. America. The offers they hold out are very
tempting—a paflagefree of expence—a fliortand
easy service after their arrival, and lands given
them in return for such service. They have even
the ailurance to fay, " That this is confering a
benefit upon France, considering lier present situa
tion, in dilburthening her of a fuperfluous popu
lation, ac once diltreiiing and dangerous." It is
not probable ihat the French government will con
sent to such emigrations. France has new lands
to cultivate as well as the United States of Ame
rica, and labor enough to employ all her citizens.
How eome» it, then, that such an office as that of
the Sciota Afl'ociation should be allowed in Paris,
and the publication of their pamphlets pexmitted »
ASSOCIATION.
The following articles are said to have been f'gned at
Berlin on the qth of January last by the MinisterS
of the King of Great Britain, the King of Prussia
and their High Mightinesses the States General of tht
United (Dutch) Provinces.
WHEREAS the troubles of the Netherlands are
of a nature to interelt the high contracting par
ties, and which may poflibly call for their inter
ference, the following general articles hive been
provisionally agreed to, which they severally bind
themselves to carry into execution.
Article I. " They will not take any part in those
troubles, unless invited or compelled so to do by
circumstances.
11. " Having an interell in the preservation of
the privileges of the Netherlands, the high con
crafting parties shall invite his imperial Majesty
Co secure them, and fee that the Prullian and Dutch
frontiers be not hereafter diltui bed or alarmed.
111. " Shonld the Netherlands become free and
independent, then the High contracting parties
will take into confidcration the nature of the con
stitution, and deliberate whether they will recog
nize their independence.
IV. " No foreign power ftiall be fuffered to
accede and become a party in this treaty, with
out the consent of the prefept high rt>ntra<3ing
parties. x
V. " Whatever may be the conTequences which
this treaty may produce the high.contracling par
ties will ltand by each other and inake a common
cause of it."
BKLGIC PROVINCES.
The unblefflilhed cliaradler, and pacific prof
fers of Leopold 11. have no imprelfion on tht
Belgic ftanss. In the Memoir which accompa -
liied his lifter, and the Duke of Saxe Tefchen's
letter to the states of Brabant, he unequivocally
reprobated the Emperor's system, promised the
most unlimited redress of grievances, and offered
to accept the soVereignty of the Netherlands un
der limitations and reftriftionfc that would have
rendered it nearly nominal.
These propofuions were, by the states of Bra
bant, on the 6th, referred to the fovcreign Con
grefs of the Belgic Commonwealth, and rejected
on the 9th by that body, without a diviftoii or
debate.
BOSTON.
DR. FRANKLIN'S WILL
THE Selectmen having received from tlie exe
cutors of Dr. Franklin's will extracfts there
from, communicated the laine to the town, at
the adjourned town meeting.
The extracts are lengthy, and contain many of
those judicious and elegant maxims and otferva
tions, for which the Doctor is so jnftly celebra
ted. They contain legacies to the town, the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and his
relations. To the town he has bequeathed i isol.
One hundred pounds of which is to the grammar
schools—the interest of which is to be laid out in
medals, to be given tofuch fcholarsas shall excel
in certain acquirements. The other ten hundred
pounds sterling, the men of the row n of Bcf
ton are to hold in trust, to be let out in luins not
exceeding- f 'xty pounds, nor less than fifteen pounds
llerling, to young worried artizans under the
age of 25 years, who cart procure fufficient recom
mendations forfobriety,and ofhavingperfoimed
the duties required by their indentures, of at lealt
two reputable citizens, who are willing to be sure
ties from them ; at an interest of five per cent.
per annum. The interest and a tenth part of
the principal to be paid annually. Thisfum be
ing thus made an accumulating fund, the Doctor
has provided for the appropriation of its produdt
in 100 years, [when it will amount to 131,0001.
IterlingJ—one hundred thousand p'titids for public
works, and the remaining 3i,0001. to begin a se
cond Fund on the principles of the legacy now
left ; Until another centnry expires, when it will
accumulate to 4,000,000!. —one million of which
the town is to dispose of ; and the other three mil
j lions the state, the Dotftor not wifliing to extend
his views any further. There are many other
particulars, which, as we relate from memory, we
cannot at present give correct to our renders.
Nor can we attempt any part of it in the language
of the deceased. As a corretl copy will undoubt
edly be published—the foregoing Iketch may
i fuffice. ■
PORTSMOUTH April 2S-
A gentleman of Montgomery county, Pennfyl
vanin, took the following piethod lately to pre
ftrve peach trees from being injured by worms
caterpillars, &c. He cleared away the gum that
iliucil out of the tree affe<fled by the worm ; strew
ed a little flour of brimstone round the root, and
covered it with fine mould that it might not blow
away, yet fothat the fun might opiate through
and cause the Ibrimftone to fumigate \Vhich des
troyed the worms, one. pound bf brimllone is
fufficient for near two hu Ired trees. The fame
kind of sulphur he alio found ro be deftrucftive to
caterpillars. In the latter cafe his plan was as
follows : He fplic thfc end of a pole or stick, put
therein a few briinltone matches, set them on fire,
and held the pole under the nest. This destroys
the caterpillars. A pole thus lightened will serVe
for three or four nests.
NKW-YORK, May 22.
A debating society has been lately established
in Wilmington, Delaware. Plans bf this kind
haveheretofore failed infomeofthelargclt iowns
on the continent; we sincerely wi/h this laudable
attempt may be fuccefsfuL It has be£n faidthat
the celebrated Burke, of the Britiih Houle of
Commons, laid the foundation of his political
eminence at a debating society—under the auspi
ces of the late Marquis of Rockingham.
THE EFFUSION OF A GENTLEMAN,
JUST BEFORE HIS GOING TO PRISON, ON SEEING HIS
CHILD ASLEEP.
SOFT Babe! sweet image of a harmless mind !
How <?alm that fteep-which innocence enjoy*!
The smiling chcck thou in thy (lumber wear'ft,
Is Nature's language for 3 gentle heart ;
ft fays all's peace within. It ij thy j
It'ii the blcft privilege of thy tender age
To wake, or deep in peace ; to know no fears,
To dread rto ill, to (mile on friend and foe.
— I —Could gazing cetcli that look or cordial peace,
My ardent eye 1 I'd si* to pluck it thence,
And pbnt it in my breaft.—lnvaitithat thought :
Heavn this blift to finful man denies ;
'Tis Virtue's crown ; and e'n an Angel's wealth.
Sleep on, mild infant; deep, and never know
What thy fond Parent fecis; now feels for thee,
Though tliou feel'ftnovght. May kibd heaven grant
Thou never wake'afftin. llo* sweet to pass
From Earth to Heaven on so Toft a wing!
Those looks would fix a smile on Death's clieek.
1 muftaway ■ rclemlefc L»w com pels j
I'll take thee too ; thou in a cell canst (leej),
And play within '.he Horrors of a goal.
Thy father (leeps rto'more. What then ? I'll watch
Thy (leeplnjg hours; and when thou fniil'd, I'll smile ;
Smtle e'en in misery ; wipe myftreaming eye,
Theri fml'e law forbid me this ?
THy mother in her peaceful tomb is laTd ;
Silent her griefs, which fretted life away ;
At fight of thee her tender heirt would bleed ;
It bled for Others woes ; for thine 'twouPd stream.
Thou know'ft. my God, by thy great pattern taught,
I never turn'd my eye, nor [hut my heart
From any wretch that walk'd this earth in paitiv
When thy rich blefiings on my head were pour'd
Thru led'ft my heart, (idee goodness comes from thee
To leek out m fery in her balhful path,
And did my utmcil everv wound to heal.
Some virtuous mind thou'lt touch :
Then him to my ccll ! my chains he'll break
And light ifr me, an* to this Babe, reflate. ' 5
472
Bethlehem Stages.
THE great number of J.lifies, who from the banks of ihe J), ]-
ware Eaftward,even to Boftoo, are now zt the youn? t *
Academy at Bethlehem, renders fame regular, rnrvenient
cheap mode of conveyance between thattown and New York
cedar v. To accommodate parents who have daughtei s attnjt fU
rilhing Academy, and others who may wilh to visit that pleafi, T
romantic hill, the fubfciibers are now running lta»cs, wtvfh v
cintinue during the summer, between Elizabeth Town Pom:
Bethlehem. At each of these places a fUge will ftait every >; c .".
day and ThuVWay morning at 5 o'clo'k. meet at Coien!i/n,,,
avern the fame evening, exchange passer gcrs, and t 'e utxi rfj
return
Fare of each pafTengec from E>'-abHh Tov»n P>'r: to
hem 3dollars— way palTer.crv 4 d per h.ier ~'
the fame as 2 pairen >er. Packa;;-:, zliid letters will be recentd a.,4
delivered at Mr*. Winant's, White hall, where feats tnay hpsi.
ken—carnage ot a letter 3d— 141b. of b.gjage allowed jo r.i c :,
passenger.
To accomodate those who may wish to take Bethlehem iniarir
route in journeying between the F.afirrn and Sciithrrn (Utrs ~
lla»e will conftamly run betweeti Bethlehem ,and Philadelphia
starting at Bethlehem every Monday morning.
May 10,
New-York City v
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, for the purpose of raifinr San
fund Five Hundred Pound\ agreable to an ACT of :hc be-fu
ture of the State of New-York, puffed Bth February. i;q-.
s c
1 PRIZE of
1
3
1 o
3°
S°
ijo
180
795°
8346 Priies, )
16654 Blanks, J a i ooo Tickcts, »t 40s. each, £ .50000
Subjed to a dedu&ion of Fifteen per Cent.
THEobje& of this LOTTERY being to raise a part oftVT.-n
advanced by the corporation for repairing and enlarging the CI
TY HALL, for the accommodation of CONGRESS, which don
f> much honor to the Architect, ss well as crcdit to thecifv. T/i
---managen pre fume that their fellow Citizens will cheerfully tor
cur in promoting the sale of Ticket?, cfoecplly as the fuccttj d
this Lottery will relieve them from a tax, woith mull other*.fo
be laid to reimfcurfethe corppration.
The above SCH£ME is calculated in a tnannervcry bcacßcial
to adventurers,there not two blanks to a prize.
The Lottery is intended to commencfe drawing on the First
Monday in Aucust next, or sooner if filled, of which timely
notice will be given. A lift of the fortunate numbers will be puh
-11 fheci at the expiration of the drawing.
Tickets are to be fold by the subscribers, who are appointed
Managers by the Corporation.
Isaac Stout enbur ch, Abraham Herrikc,
Pe rer T. Curt 1n 1 us, John Pintard.
New-York, 6thSla"ch i ijgo.
By Order of life Honorable Richard Morris t EJq. Chief Jtflice oj lit
State of Afew-York.
NOTICE is hereby given to LewisM'Donald, of Conncflio;t»
an absent debtor, that upon application and due prooftnndc
to the said chief justice by a creditor of thr said
pursuant to an ast of the Legislature of the said State, entitled,
An ast for relief against absconding and absent debtors," puf
fed the 4th April, 1786 ; he, the said chief justice, has directed
all the said Lewis M'Donalds estate, -Within this state, to be seiz
ed, and that unless he (hall difchtfrge his debts ivitWn twelve
months after the publication of this notice, the fame will be fold
for the payment of his creditors. Dated the 3d May, 179 Q.
New-York, May 7, 1790. ( lw - , yv.
ADVERTISEMENT.
BY order of the honorable John Slofs Hobart Esquire, one of
the Jufticei of the Supreme Court of Judicature of the State
ofNew-York Notice is heieby given to Paul Deyre)l,now or
late of Long Island, Esquire, an absconding debt«r, and to a.l
others whom it may concern; that upon application and due
proof, made to the laid Justice, pursuant to an a£l of the legifo
ture, entitled 11 an ast for relief against absconding and abfert
debtors," palled the fourth day of April, 1786, by a creditor of
the said Paul Deyrell, he the said Justice has directed all his the
said Paul DeyrelPs Estate, real and personal, within this State, to
be seized ; and that unleft he ftiall discharge his debts within three
months after the publication of this notice ; all his Estate real and
personal will be fold for the payment and fatisfa&ion of hije/f*
editors. Dated at the city of New-York, the
of March, in the year of. our Lord one thousand seven hundred
and ninety. March 31. iaw3m.
§ CONTINENTAL §
§ STATES E*C tl RITI ES, §
£ BOUCHT AND SOLD, C
96. WATER-STREET. y
§' $3T A generous price will be given for Military Rights C
and Jersey Paper Money. May 4. 3
AT MO. I
ASH, and a generous price given for Contij
neiital, New-Hampihire, MafTachufeits, and Rhodc-l» alia
lecurities, of every denomination, by
EBENEZER THAYER, jun. No. 59, IVater-StrccU
New-Yoik, April Ij y 1790.
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59, to No. 187, Water-Street, ncartte
El y^Nl^rkct
WHERE they negociate all'kinds ofPUBUCK
SECURITIES— BILLS OF. EXCHANGE. &c. Mutual
Acw-York, Aprils, 1790. -tf.
a r r &° ,m P re ffio* of this paper having btcr-
a UC , f rom commencement of the second vol
pnl 14. Those ivhb incline to become fubfcrih r '
J ram that period, may be JurniJhed with th: ttumii rs
compleat. J
•JT™* v A \ L , D,l,cen «'/«' PhUadtlphi* Ireas the
c' j ' "'*> fifty willies after Sevrn every Morning, ». u :'
•» > 75J u P vT»y?i>«4- 4*, a' reacJitu bfjcrc dcrk>
WILLIAM CRANE.
FREDERICK BELTEL
H E M E.
s' !
{\3OOO
1000
s"°
2 CO
100
go
ao
10
i
£
*C 9p j
>s<b
»o6tt' v'
iB-">
31800
S 0 ? 0 .