{fofiztfit (fffj
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENXO, No. 41, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 8, of Vol. ll.] *
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES ;
AT THE SECOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the city of New York, on Monday the fourth
of January, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
An ACT for regulating the Military Eftabljfhment
of the United States.
BE it enaSled by the Senile and House of Representatives of the Uni
ted States of America in Congress ajfembled, That the commissi
oned officers herein after mentioned, and the number of one thou
sand two hundred and sixteen non-commissioned officers, privates
and musicians, (hall be raised for the service of the United States,
for the period of three years, unless they (hould previously by law
be discharged.
And be it further enaSed, That the non-commissioned officers and
privates aforefaid, (hall, at the time of their inliitmtnts rcfpeaive-
Iv, be able bodied men, not under five feet fix inches in height
■without (hoes, nor under the age of eighteen, nor above the age
of forty-fix years. b
And be it further enacted, That the commissioned officers herein
after mentioned, and the said ron-commissioned officers, privates
and musicians, (hall be formed into one regiment of infantry, to
consist of three batta!lions,and one battallion of artillery. The re
giment of infantry to be composed of one Lieutenant Colonel
Commandant, three Majors, three Adjutants, three Quarter Maf
tcrs, one Paymaster, one Surgeon, two Surgeon's Mates, and twelve
companies, each of which will conlift of one Captain, one Lieute
nant, one Ensign, four Serjeants, four Corporals, sixty-six privates
and two Musicians. The battalion of Artillery (hall be composed
of one Major Commandant, one Adjutant, one Quarter Matter,
one Pay Master, one Surgeon's Mare, and four companies, each of
•which (hall confifl ofoneCaptain, two Lieutenants, four Serjeants,
four Corporals, sixty fix privates and two Musicians. Provided al
ways, that the Adjutants, Quarter Matters, and Pay Mailers (hall
be appointed from the line of fufcalternsof the aforefaid corps cef
...
Ana te it further enafled, That the Prelident of the United States
may from time to time appoint one or two Infpe&ors, as to him
(hall seem meet, to infpeft the said Iroops. who (hall also muster
the fame, and each of whom (hall receive the like pay and <übfilt
ence as a Captain, and be allowed ten dollars per month for for
»g<\
And be it further enafled, That the troops aforefaid (hall receive
for their services, the following enumerated monthly rates of pay,
Lieutenant Colonel Command, int, sixty dollars : 'Major Com
mandant of Artillery, forty five dollars : Majors, fort) dollars :
Captains thirty dollars : Lieutenants, twenty two dollars : En
ligns, eighteen dolln't : Surgeons, thirty dollars : Surgeon's Mates,
twenty tour dollars : Serjeants, five dollai : Corporals,four dol-
Jars : Privates three dollars: feniof Musician, in each battalion
of infantry, and in the battalion of artillery, five dollars : Mu
sicians, three dollars. Provided altvays, that the sums her in after
Ipecified (hall be deduftcd from ihe pay of the nou-commiffioneti
officers, privates and musicians, stipulated as aforefaid, for the pur
poses ot forming a fund for clothing and hospital stores. From
the monthly pay of each Serjeant and senior Musician, there shall
be deducted for uniform clothing, the sum of one dollar and forty
cents, and the farther sum of ten cents for hospital stores; ind
from the monthly pay of each Corporal, for uniform clothing , e
dollar and fifteen cents, and the farther sum often cents for hos
pital stores ; and from the monthly pay of each Private and Mu
lician, for uniform clothing, the sum ot ninety cents, and the far
tner sum of ten cents for hospital stores.
And be it further enafled, That the subalterns who may be ap
pointed to a« as adjutants, shall each receive for the fame, in ad
dition to their regimental pay, ten dollars per month,and quarter
and paV-maften so appointed each five dollars per month.
f a n! 1-1 That the commissioned officers afore
ißid shall receive lor their daily subsistence, the following number
ot rations of provisions, to wit, lieutenant-colonel commandant,
; a ™ a J or > four ; a captain three ; a lieutenant, two ;an ensign,
two ; a surgeon, three ; a surgeon's mate, two, or money in lieu
ereor, at the option of the said officers, at the contra# price at
rr 'P caivel y the rations (hall becomc due.
nd be it further enafled, That the comniiflioned officers herein
atter dcfcribed shall rcccive monthly the following enumerated
ums, loltrad of for age : Lrtutenaitt Colonels Commandanttwelve
oars : major commandant of artillery, majors and surgeon each
ten dollars, furgeon's-mates each fix dollars.
And be it further enafled. That every non-commissioned officer
private and musician, aforefaid shall receive annually the follow
ing articles of uniform clothing : one hat or helmet, one coat, one
rv. tW ° a ' r w ' t)o^en » a,, d two pair of linen overalls, four pair
of fhocs, four (hirts, two pair of socks, one blanket, one stock and
clasp, and one pair of buckles.
And be it further evalled, That every non-commissioned officer,
private and musician aforefaid (hall receive daily the following
rations of provisions, or ttie value thereof : One pound of beef or
three quarteis of a pound of pork, one pound of bread or flour,
half a gill of rum, or brandy, or whilkey, or the value thereof at
the contrast price where the fame (hall became due, and at the
rate of one quart bf fait, two quarts of vinegar, two pounds of soap
and one pound of candles to everv hundred rations.
- nd be it further enafled. That if any commissioned officer, non
!r J"*?* 1 ? nc private or musician aforefaid, (hall be wounded or
a fd while in the line of his duty in public service, he (hall be
P ace on the lift of the invalids of the United States, at such rate
* ' pay, and under such regulations as (hall be dire&ed by the Pre
u ent o the United States for the time being : Provided always,
u * C ratC ° , com P for such wounds or disabilities,
lhall never exceed for the highest disability, half the monthly pay
received by any commissioned officer, at the time of being so
pounded or disabled ; and that the rate of compensation to non
comnjimoned officers privates and musicians, (hall never exceed
SATURDAY, MAT 8, 1790.
Eve: dollar. per month : And provided a/so, That all inferior dis
abilities (hall intitlcthe pcrlo. , so disabled to receive only a sum
in proportion to the highest [..(ability.
And ieitfurther emu! cd, 'i'| . every commiflioned officer, non
commissioned officer, private , ,d muficiao aforefaid, (ball take
and fubfenbe the following oj;h or affirmation, to wit: " I A
*do swear or ath, (as the cafe may be) to bear true
allegiance to the United State oi America, and to serve them ho
neltly and -aithfully against . their enemies or oppofers whom
-I°eVC r; a " a to ° bfcrvc <y the .iders of the Prcfident of the
Lmtcd States of Amend, i ;c orders of the officers appointed
over me, accordi ig to t .• ,t war."
And uit f-j'iis i li, i -at the commiflioned officers, non
commmioned officers, private* and muticians aforefaid, ffiall be
(jo-'crntd by the rules and a> t tlcs of war, which have been eilab
hlhed by the United States in Congress aircmblcd.as far as the fame
may be applicable to the Conltitution of the United States, or by
luch rules and articles as in. v icreatter by hw be established
And be It further enaded, That the "Ast for recogmzmg and
adapting to the Constitution of the United Sta es, the ertablifhment
of the troops raised under the resolves of tht United States in Con
grels aUembled,and for other purpofts therein mentioned," pafled
the twenty-ninth day of Sep: mber, one thousand (even hundred
and eighty-nine, be, and the f.'nie is hereby repealed.
Provided always, That the non-commiflioned officers and pri
vate, continued and engaged under the aforefaid ast of the twen
ty-ninth day of September, one thousand, fiven hundred and
eighty-nine, and who ffiall decline to re-inlift under the ellabliffi
ment made by this ast, ffiall be discharged whenever the Presi
dent of the United States ffiall direst the fame. Providedfurther,
That the whole number oi non-commiilioned officers, privates
and muhcians, in the service of the United States at any one fime,
either by virtue of this ast, or by virtue of the aforefaid ast, patted
the twenty-ninth day of September, one thousand seven hundred
and eighty-nine, ffiall not exceed the number of one thousand two
hundred and sixteen.
And be it further entiled, That for the purpose of aiding the
troops now in service, or to be raised by this ast, in protecting
th-_- inhabitants of the frontiers of the United States, the President
is hereby authorized to call into service from time to time luch
part of the militia of the States refpeftively, as he may ne
cessary for the purposes aforefaid ; and that their pay and fublift
ence while in service, be the i.m; as the pay and subsistence ot the
troops above-mentioned, and they Ihall be fubjeft to the rules and
articles of war
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker oj the House of Representatives.
JOHN' ADAMS, I' ice-Prejident oj the United States.
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approvfd, April the thirtieth 1700
GEORG* WASHINGTON, Pref, dent of the United States.
(True Copv)
THOMA> JEFFERSON, Seer, tan of State.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 1790.
The proportion for ajfuming the Stitc debts under confiJeration.
MR. Hartley. I am.asat present informed,
for the afluitipt ion, but under certain terms,
or diftin&ions ; and in this ltage of the bufinel's I
wilh to explain niyfelf in a few words.
J he thirteen colonies (now states) united in a
common defence, and afierwards declared them
selves independent and sovereign states. Quotal
were fixed for each ft;ur, by different refclutioi.s
of Congress, and which they ought to have paid :
but when, fiom the feats of war, one or more
states may have been obliged to expend more
than such quotas in the common cause, certainly
the other ltares became debtors for so much.
The war was carried on very unequally, rag
ing with mote violence in some parts of the Uni
ted States than in others ; and of course foine
states may have experienced more misery and
diitrels than others, aud have been forced to
greater exertions. South-Carolina has some me
rit : She has incurred a large debt. The inhabi
tants of Pennsylvania have been taxed deep, for
many years, to fink hei ffiare of the national debt :
Nay, the exertions of that state, in the two lafi
years of the war, were so great as to furnifh the
inoft efficient means for the fupportofit. Her
citizens have been fmce diftrefled with taxes: I
wilh, if pofuble, to give them relief.
Quotas, as 1 have laid, were fixed upon the
several states. Those quotas, which were per
haps as just as dny that could be deviled, fhouid
be regarded ; and, where the requisitions were
not complied with, the delinquent states are debt
ors and would be charged. The accounts ffiould
be balanced, and due credit be given to the cre
ditor states ; and a plan such as offered by the
Secretary in his firft report, or some other one,
might be adopted to discharge them gradually.
1 think it prudent and political that both forts
of debts ffiould be afi'umed, they being contracted
in the common cause.
Sir, I said I was for the affiimption, but in the
mode of payment lam for diftin&lons. The
debts of the United States, and for which certi
ficates were given, are debts in ftricft contract:
the debts of the several states are equitable claims,
or, I will fay, just claims, but in found policy
ffioukl be placed in a second degree.
In the administration of property, according
to the Englilh law, diftin&ions are often made
445
f (if (ft
■ "* < h f payment of debts of different kinds : thofr
or uricfb contract are preferred to those of an in
feiior fort, and if there is a deficiency of effeifts
the iofs talis upon the laflr. I trnft there will be
no deficiency here; but let us, for a moment,
fuppole the word. And 1 would observe here,
that for the firil we have complete means in our
power ; for the other, we have the riling great
ncls of America, and perhaps fufTici- iit rcihurces,
but which would peihaps be imprudent or op
premve to call them forth at present.
1 am for the ajfumpiion ; I am for a complete
provision in the former, and for taking eafona
ble Itreps f or the gradual difcha.ge of the latter.
Ithall, however, objetl to some article adopt
ed 111 the committee, as well as to several articles
of means pointed out in both reports, as they
Vs'y operate againl! the manufactures and in
tei efts of the several states, and are contiary to
the genius of rhe people.
Mr. Jackson said it was granted that it was intended there
mould be a general treasury, and that the charges for the common
detcnce lhould be defrayed therefrom. He Jikewife granted that
thole charges of the particular Hates, which had been so incurred,
W f"u °n 2 " w ''h l ' ,e debts of the Continent ; but many
ot the ltate charges were not of that nature, and where they were
he thought the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Williamfon)
had proved to the House yelteiday that they had been transferred.
It was a fact that the individual states had assumed them and made
them their own. Many of the states had provided for them, and
in thole provisions had funk part of those debts.
Some gentlemen had advanced that there was no difference in
the debt, and that it would not be exaggerated by the assumption
propolcd. He begged leave to differ from them, and to suppose,
that an accumulation would take place. If the debt is assumed
he believed if it was contemplated to fuller the unliquidated ac
counts to be brought to a settlement; this has been declared by the
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Sedgwick) who has spoken so
ftrenuotifly in favor of the measure. Can this house be partial and
lay that we will give this privilege to MalTachufetts, and not to
Geoigu . At present the limitation to claims in several of the
itates is expired, and the citizens are contented : But if this as
sumption takes place, and th» door is again opened, is it not (he
duty ol those citizens, who are to be saddled with those debts, to
bring forward their claims; and is it not the intercfts of the re-
J pp ° rt tht ; m ? 11 Wl .» become just and ncceffary
to have all those dormant claims liquidated.
It has been said by several gentlemen, that it will bemorc
Rreh ot "*«• " «sno*
the inconvemence, of individual (fates. He agreed a,to the pow
er, Congress could lay a direst or other tax as Ihc pleas.-d, but the
inconveniences would be much greaterthan if laid by iheind.v d
ual states. To fomeftates an excise would be agreeable •to other
states, not in the habit of excise, it would be the mod difagreeabl*
tax. It will be so in the southern states.whilst in the northern and
of noTl f a '" " preferred. Some states are in th.- habit
poll taxes, which are odious in many others,and we find bythe
SomeonhT thatd,r<,fl taxes would be much complained oft he re.
Someof those papers .congratulate the lar-ucrs that thev will have
no d'reft tax to pay Had not the individual states then better br
answerable for, and pay those debts ? Cannot they lav a tax on
Z W r l eX A re ,S poll tax where that isthe cuf
°ftT 1 n ' ~ e lhcy havc bccn habitual. The di-
If r vcntur< j to affirm would be preferred to the South
ward. If Congress take this business on theinfelves, th:y eannot
r.l nl" : ft V" ? bC un ' io ' m ' ana of one nature. A gene
r.l plan must be taken up, which will be unequal and oppreffivt
An.nference was drawn yesterday on a man in private life
who wou d not pay part of hi, debts, because he knew not the
amount °t the whole of his debts. He would ask what would
be said in pi.vate life of a man whb, to keep his neighbor in fub
teftion would monopolize his debts. This appeared to him to
be similar to the present cafe. Many of the states were averfeto
Congress taking up their debts, and if those states (for there is no
knowing at present whether they are debtors or creditors) should
tall in arrears, they certainly will be attli-merrv
He believed the cafe he had stated would be generally cenfuiedai
deviating from principles which were right in private life He
knew no difference why it should not be so in public life. ' H "rr
? I"' " m^" ng With the a "d debts they had
nothing to do with, becoming aflignces of the state and
It K K lO kn ° w,n S what ,h e union might do at a future clay
j s a d v ancjd on the fubjeft of itnpoft, that consumpti
on depended on numbers : This he did not agree to. The con
sumption a, it struck his mind, depended on habit. Thus for
inftai.ee the Northern states, although possessed of greater numl
bers confirmed less than the Southern, because they were in the
habit of their own manufactures. The Southern ™
nufnftures, and eonfumed chiefly foreign article" °
The consumption cannot be fudged of by the importation at a
ny particular port, as Philadelphia or New York - for in those
parts a great proportion of foreign articles is again (h.pped for o!
ther potts, and some of the southern ports are almost lupplied in
his manner However vast then the revenue which some sfate"
re supposed to contribute, that revenue is paid by the confumine
direftlaxe" Carharder °" the States than
But, fir, suppose, as the gentlemen exprefsthemfelves, there will
be no accumulation, let usexamine how' it is proposed wefoaU
provide for this assumption. Salt is one article l?om which this
mirVth | IWn ' T h,S ' sir ' ha * becn complained of by
man) of the gentlemen who have spoke in favor of the affumZ
ion, and will be very illy relilhed by many of the States.
ther article of revenue has been declared of little value by the gen
hvTh T l C " c °' lna : and although he has been answered
talntv gC TheTr n nM° m S ° uth - Caro,ma > there appears no err
taint} The gentleman from South-Carolma, if the gentlemart
from North-Carolina has erred, has exaggerated too much the
Z'Vu r mc,pal art,cle of r «cnue is that of manu!
faftured tobacco, and by which the Secretay proposes to draw a
large amount of dollars. But, fir if we look
the table, from the manufacturers of that article, I think^a't^hey
hith X P 7 Ve A W / ""J o ot CXpf£l 3 lr <* n it- I have the
nf t hnf r the Secretary's abilities ; but when the opinions
of those who carry on this manufacture, and ought to know are
placed in competition, I must confefs I am led to give mv 'fane!
tion to the latter. Those, however, are the fund® the
P wv,d " i for «bts affumptioß ; and I am led to believe all the
[Whole No. 112.]funds In contemplation are in his report. If then we find the ar
ticles he values will not produce the revenue, is it not better to let
the measure reft until we fee the means toaccomplith it. Ought
■we not to be fatisfied of the provision ? Gentlemen have argued
that we should fund firft, and look, for the means afterwards.
"What, he would ask, would be said of the man who, in private
life, would run thirty or forty thousand pounds in debt, and after
that seek the means of paying It ? Would this fatisfy his creditors ?
Yet this was similar to the present cafe. Sir, let us calculate this
business not from theory, but experience. Let us know the a
mount and the means, and then if I conceive it for the general
interest it ftiall have my fanttion.
The gentleman has enumerated the state collectors, which will
be rcquifite if the states continue the powers of taxation. I would
aik him if CongreCs will not require double that number, two to
one, if they take the power, and an army at their back, if the tax
should be difagrceable. This tax mull be rendered pleafmg to
the people, and notwithstanding the fiat of this house, if the peo
ple fay it will not be so, we lhall find our fiat of little benefit. In
fomc ot the iUtes it will be disagreeable, at any rate, and theyiwill
not fufferthe money to be again taken trom their pockets where
they have already contributed ; Bcfides, let us consider the time
and expence a continental arrangement will make necessary :"take
it in any sense aud it will be found improper.
A gentleman has interpreted the amendment from North-Ca-
Tolina to be, that Congress fliall not compel her to pay twenty
shillings in the pound. This he thought uncharitable, and that
the gentleman (honld have looked to our own body firft—to Con
gress. He would ask it Congress had paid her 20s[in the pound ?
It her soldiers, and other cieditors, had been so honorably dealt
■with ? He was sorry it would not be found the cafe, and North-
Carolina ought therefore to be let alone on this head. For his
part he conttrued the amendment at diametrically opposed to the
. aflumption, and he would leave it to the committee it it was po
licy to adopt the measure even on this single consideration. A
bare majority,if the measure was carried,was all to be expelled,and
hewoulaalk if this bare majority was to fatisfy that state, or it her
citizens would be fatisfied with it. Suppose it carried by this
majority, and they would not submit, v/as it intended to reduce
them to obedience by force ? Was this a language for freemen ?
He supposed not, reconcile them to the measure, bring forward
your funds, shew them they are not to be oppreiled, and you
•will accomplifti the business much eaficr.
With refpeft to a fcttlement, it was the interest of the state he
came from to procure one ; but he despaired of it. He would
\enture to predict, if the assumption took place, a settlement
would never be procured : nay, the Secretary himfelf had not con
templated it in hisieport as an event which would certainly take
place : for he fays, after finding out the mode eventually to be a
dopted, that the second or final tuccefs must depend upon the
firft ; but suppose this settlement, have the arguments of the gen
tlemen anfwercd the objections to the justice of the measure in
taxing the citizens (ot the states which have funk those debts)
twice over? For suppose them continental or state debts, still the
injustice remains : if the former, the citizens have funk their pro
portion of the continental debts, and therefore ought not to be
taxed again : if considered as state debts, as they have been taxed
for their own state debts, they ought not to be taxed for the debts
of other states.
The gentleman last up (Mr. Hartley) has mentioned the quota*
of the different states, and that they should be regarded ; this he
believed would not be the cafe if the assumption took place. The
rule of apportionment, for instance, for Georgia, was at the rate
of one ninetieth of the whole debts; fhc would pay the alfumption
agreeable to the rates of reprcfentation, which would be three
parts of fixty-five of the whole debts. He thought it could not
be injurious to poflpone the assumption at the present day, and
hoped it would not at any rate take place the present session.
Mr. Moore. I rife to answer my colleague (Mr. Bland) He
has mentioned, as one of the reasons which has determined nim
to vote in favor of the assumption, that the reprefentatiou of Vir
ginia in their state legislature is unequal; frprri which circumflance '
he appear* to think it is not prudent to trust them witli making
provilion for the payment of their state debli. He fays the weight
of property is in the eaflern part of the state ; the weight of legis
lative influence is from the weflern. He ycfterday mentioned
an instance in which the weight and inlluenceof the weflein part
of the state had occasioned a great deal of clamour and uneafinefj.
The cafe he mentioned, is the a£l passed in that state authoi ifing
British creditors to sue for and recover the debts contracted pre
vious to the war. Has the ground of complaint been, that the
state has refufed to pay a debt which was contra&ed by indivi
duals ? Or was it because they have complied with the treaty ?
]f cither of those are grievances, they arc such as will not be re
dressed by this house. A compliance with the treaty was fre
quently recommended by Congress before the law passed ; the
present Congress haveconcurrcd in the measure; I believe it inc; is
•with the approbation of every member withinthefc walls; I think
it mult meet with the approbation of every disinterested mind
throughout the continent. Sir, I cannot conhder it as agi ievance.
If the°obfervation of my colleague has any weight, it goes to prove
that the state cannot be fafcly trusted withtjie power of legislation
in iiny cafe, and that the whole power ought to be veiled in
Congress.
Mv colleague has said, that the greater part of the certificates
ire in the hands of citizens in the e.iftern part of the State ; that
heir militia have been oftericr called into iirvice ; they have fur
lilhed provisions in a greater proportion than the wellern : and
re is afraid that the weight and influence of the western part of
he State will prevent their being equitably redeemed. Sir, I be
ieve supplies to the arm) have been turnilhcd by the wellern part
>fthe state, in proportion to their property,; I believe my col
eaeue will not lay that any militU in the Stye have more cheer
ullv served their country ; 1 think they have not been wanting
n patriotism, in zeal or exertions. But I *ill refer him to an
■ft of the legislature of Virginia, that will (how the injufticc of
.dopting the measure ma more forc'blc point of view
The legislature of Virginia patted a law I think, tour or five
rears ago, hying a duty on imports to be paid in certificates.
The importer had the alternative of paying one-fourth or i- s th
»f the sum in fpccie. Every citizen in the state, I believe, conli
dered this as the only mode by which they were ever to be paid ;
rhey never contemplated any other provision for the purposes.
Under the influence of a law of the slate they have fold hem to
the merchants for one fifth of the nominalfum. They will be cal
led on by the propofuion now before us, to pay the entire sum
with interest : This I consider as an injuft.ee to the citizens of e
verypart of the state. 1 hope he will not be ditpofed to encoun
ter those inconveniences from any ill founded apprehensions of the
"'Anofher 1l r U e7fot > h?haTd t ifphyed is that number, of the citi
zens have emigrated from Virginia to Kentucky, N Carolina and
Oeorgia. It would be unjust that the remaining citizen, should
™y the debt, so far as refpeft Kentucky. This reason will equal.
Fy apply to Pennsylvania, North-Carolina, and other states. No
rtore tliin one-third of the citizens of Kentucky are from Virgin,-
Rut fir it is well known that more havecome into than have
removed from Virginia : When the feat of government was un
d™difeuffion,iitw D a S often mentioned that their members were
ronfidcrablv incrrafed : 1 then thought my colleague concurred
i»7he opinion and co. fidered it as ap undeniable truth. Sir, I
need onW refer him to the returns of the militia ; to prove that
The numbers have increased ; and from their tnctealc in number
rhev will pay the debt with more ease.
Mr Chairman, gentlemen think u improper to point out par
ticular inftanccs in which the operation o the proportion will be
„lu ous ; I con lets I am obliged ... o.der to make up my mind
o consider itsconfequences; how fa, states how far individuals
v>U be injured. Gentlemen 1 tlul>k it oi» # ht tf be ounfidcrcd :a
a aitional point of view.
He has said he is not fur prized that the members from the weft
em part Of the date (hould be opposed to the aifumption ot the
ftatc debts. The conclusion intended, I suppose, is, that they are
influenced by the interest of the particular part of the itate. . ir,
if he had considered the situation of that country, he would <'3ll
ly have seen (especially Kentucky) that to aiTume the debts would
be in favor of them. No part of the duties proposed by th. be
cretary will be paid by the citizen*. They will rtel no part ot the
burthen ; N butif they are not aJTumed, they mult pay their propor
tion by a tax.
I suppose they mean that some great, some important national
advantage is 10 be acquired by it ; that it ought to be contempla
ted in this view. In my opinion no expedient will be lo ctfettu
al, towards giving the government permanency as a it net adhe
rence to justice ; nothing will tend so much to secure national ad
vantage or importance. A worthy member from South-Carolina
has enumerated the services rendered by the citizens of that Hate ;
I know, fir, they have rendered important services ; 1 know they
were opprefTed during the war : But they were not the only men
who participated in thofc difficulties. The militia ot North-Ca
rolina and Virginia were also engaged. Two of the inftarices he
mentions proves to my mind, fully the injustice of our alTuming
the state debts : The battle of Kings-mountain and the Cowpens.
The militia of Virginia and North-Carolina were engaged
in both those. Indeed, if lam not altogether wrong informed,
and I think I am not, my information is such as I can rely on, that
of King's Mountain was wholly fought by the militia ot Virginia
and North-Carolina ; at the Cowpens the fame militia composed
the greater part of the troops. The gentleman fays they have en
ver been paid. How were the militia of Virginia paid ? Sir, I re
member drawing the pay, the °.n-pencc per day, for some of j
thofc militia, in Rate paper money* when depreciated 4, 5, or 600 ,
for one. Is it just that the militia from Virginia who have been
thus paid (and I believe they have been generally paid in this
manner) should now be called on to pay (those of South-Carolina
who have not been paid the principal, but have received the inter
est) the full amouut of their claims in fpccie ? I think it would be
glaringly unjust. Sir, although I have confined my obfervatiom
to a companion of those two flat s, I think a similar injustice will
take place in some degree through irll the Hates.
Had this aifumption taken place immediately after the war, it
would have been move just. I believe some of the states, by their
extraordinary exertions, have incurred a debt exceeding their just
proportion ; but there has been as great an inequality in the exer
tions of states to pay those debts. Sir, I have seen a law of South-
Carolina, directing the cmiflion of two 01 three hundred thousand
pounds in paper money, to be loaned to such ot thofc of her citi
zens as would mortgage lands tor the repayment of the principal,
and fix per cent, interest : On their having firft iubmitted their ti
tle papers to examination, and their lands t a fair valuation, they
were entitled to one third of its value in the new emitted money on
mortgage. If lam not' mistaken in this law, oi its operation, and
I think I am not, although I mention it from a very imperii & re
recollettion, the taxes colle£led in that state have not been applied
to the payment of the debts contract d during the war, but have
been diverted into a different channel; they have been applied
to the discharge of this ucw crcated debt; and in the *ear 1791,
the state will receive into hertreafury thefum loaned to her citi
zens, with fix per cent, interest. Sir, my colleague, some time a
go, moved that the certificates which were redeemed, and in the
the pofteflion of the states, {hould be funded in the fame manner
as those in the poifeflion of individuals :—this was rejetted. I
suppose it is not in contemplation with gentlemen to piohibit
states from becoming purchasers hereafter, and funding agreeable
to the proposition now before us. What will be the comparative
f)tuation of the state ot South-Carolina and Virginia ? The one ha
ving paid a confidenble share other debt, is to have no credit.
The other having paid no part, or very little, is to be aided by
the other states in making the payment, whilst (he lodges in her
treasury the amount of five years taxes. This ha* not the appear
ance of jnftice. Sir, I think the present question may be reduced
to this—Shall we suspend or the justice due to two states,
for there are only two who compLin ? Or ihall we do an imme
diate a£t of injustice to others ? Sir, gentlemen appear to be fully
agreed to pay whatever balances mav appear due 011 a final fettle
inent of accounts. Is it not better to delay justice to some states,
when they have every afTurance of redress ? Sir, when I consider
the question in this view, I find no room for hefuating in my
mind. lam Clear for rejttting the proposition.
Mr. Wadsworth. I confefsSir,l almoftbegin todefpairof the
aflumptionof the State debts, and with that I lhall despair of the
national government. As it is thelalhion to hold up to view the
interest of particular States. I shall according to cuftom,offer some
observations refpe&ing the State of Connc&icut. At the beginning
of the war we were out of debt,and our funds were n such a fix
ation, as enabled us to advance 50,000 dollars for the exigencie
of the war ; the paper money ret civcd by that Slate, for this sum
from Congress, did not nctt half that amount. At the c!ofe of
the war, Connedicut owed nearly 4,000,000 of dollars ; Hie has
funk, about half that amount by excile and direct taxes, principal,
ly by the latter ; Hie has no debt but what was incurred by the
war, (except *about 8000 dollars) and what remans to be paid
was for National and State defence. To the officers and soldiers
| of the Continental army, (he lias paid and owes more than two
million of dollars, a sum considerably greater than her present
! debt. When :he Quaiter Master an l CommiiTary General owed
in Connc&icut 640 thonfaud dollars, and had neither money or
credit, the State aiTumed that sum, which is part of the present
debt ; in most other States, these debts were cancelled 'bv a final
settlement of a Continental Commiflioner, and are no othei ways
diftinguiftied from State debts : the State of Connecticut has
long lince had itsaccounts against the union examined, by aCom
miflioner, who rejected every doubtful charge, and yet there re
mains nearly 8,000,000 of dollars ballance,after deducing every
fhilliug the Continent had advanced the State. I confiderthe debt
of the State of Connecticut now due, as a real Continental debt,
of the most meritorious class, nor can I easily pcrfuade royfeif, to
provide funds for the other Continental debts, and leave the citi
zens of ConneCticut to groan under a direCt tax (their only re
fouree) to pay a debt which they do not owe, but as sureties for
the Continent ; we have been fometimestold, when the interest of
a particular State was in question, that if we did not comply with
her wifties, she would throw hetKf into the arms of some foreign
power, I will not fay this of Connecticut, there is no power but
the United States with whom we wilh for connection; no foreign
power is our neighbor ; we are firmly attached to the union, but
a direCt heavy tax for the debts of the union, will be felt as un
just and oppreftive, and may rouse the hardy spirits of the North
ern and Eaftearn freemen to a incompatible with the
peace, fafety and happiness of the general government.
An argument has been drawn against the assumption from pe
titions 'on your table (mr. Chairman); the petition of the To
bacconists has been mentioned in particular : if we are to admit
petitions as arguments against a mcafure, we may as well give up
all idea of laying any tax whatever ; for I believe it will be grant
ed that no tax can be proposed, which may not be petitioned
against.
I beg leave to remind gentlemen, of a petition prefaced the last
feflion from a body of men, who, confidcred in relation to the
community at large,are of ten time* the consequence that the finall
body of Tobacconists are however refpeGahle in themselves, 1
refer to the petition from the Distillers and Importers of molas
ses, their petition was not noticed ; the tax was laid, and is now
coile&ed, the petitioners fee their error and are fatisfied.
The duty on Salt has been mentioned, the duty laid last feflion,
was ohjeftcd to, but Salt was never so low in price, and ifjthe prol
posed duty is laid, it will then be cheaper than it has been on an
average, for seven years past, to my knowledge. Gentlemen have
uoiiteudcd that the menfure is (• importent, that its adoption
-446-
ought to be by the voice of a large majority, a bare majority will
not iatisfy our constituents ; however desirable this may bej pub
lic -bodies arc often most divided upon the most inter eft ing fub
je&s, and if this idea is to prevail, there is an end of the great
principle of a republican government, that the majority is to
govern. On this principle, it a majority should decide against
the aflumption, I should think it my duty patiently to submit to
the determination. We hear much upon the fubjeft of general
duties, that they fall heavieit upbn the Southern Slates ; they uq
not manufadureis, and a great consumption ot luxuries takes
place among the people in those states. Mr. Wadfworth asserted
that the coniumption of luxuries is much greater in the Eastern
and Northern states ; and stated a variety of particulars to prove tiie
alTertion ; he appealed to theSourthcrngentlemen,w ho had trave
led into the middle and Northern states foi its truth.
The report of the Secretary of the Treasury has been faulted ou
account of its calculations; and the article relpi 6ting the Polfc
Office has been mentioned—Mr. Wadfworth read that part
of the report, and observed—Here we have the opiuion of the
Poft-Maiter, and not a calculation of the Secretary. If there a
an error it is only in opinion —and the Secretary is not accounta
ble for it,—The opinion however appears to me to over rate the
proceeds of the depaitrnent upon the present plan—l do not
however conceive that the eftnuate over rates what may be de
rived from this fouice —seven eights of what may be piotjuctd
from the Poft-Oftice is loft by letters being lent by private con
veyance and under franks—under proper regulations I have ne>
doubt but a larger sum than that mentioned by the Pofl-Maftei-
General may be realized. —Mr. Wadfworth concluded by faym?
that in every view of the fubjett the justice and policy of the mtv
fure, 111 making a continental jnovihon for thefc debis is so ap
parent that he could not but hope the affirmative or the
would be adopted.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 5.
The house receded from their amendments to
the bill for the government South of the Ohio
which had been disagreed to by the Senate—they
also agreed to the amendments proposed by the
Senate to the bill for the mitigation or remilfiou
of forfeitures and penalties accruing in certain
cases under the revenue laws.
A meflage was received from the Senate in
forming the house that they have palled a bill
prescribing the mode of authenticating the acts,
records and proceedings of the several States.
The committee appointed for that purpose,
reported a bill for the colle&ionof the addition
al duties 011 Wine, Rum, &c. as proposed by the
late resolutions of the house. The said bill was
rend a firlfc time and laid on the table.
The bill from the Senate, for extending the
judiciary laws of the United States to the State
of North Carolina, was read a second time.
The house resolved itfelf into a committee and
made further progress in the bill for adjusting
and fettling the claims of the Baron Steuben.
On motion of Mr. Smith (S. C.) The Secreta
ry of the Treasury was directed to report the
amount of tonnage duty collected in each of the
States between the firft day of September and
the firft day of January last ; diftinguiihing the
foreign front the domellic tonnage.
THURSDAY, MAY 6.
A very long memorial of Nathaniel T»ini«j.-
was read—praying further com penfation for the
trailfportation of the mail in 1 787.
Mr. Stone of the committee appointed for the
purpose, reported a bill for funding the public
debt of the United States—which bill was read a
firft and second time, and made the order of the
day onWednefday next.—loo copies were order
ed to be printed.
In committee of the whole on the bill for ad
justing and fatisfying the claims of William
Frederick de Steuben.
The clause which proposes an annuity of 2706
dollars during life was further di feu sled—sun
dry amendments werepropofed to the bill—some
of which were withdrawn, and others negatived,
it was at length agreed to in Committee without
alteration. This bill wasoppofed in its progress
by Mr. Williamfon, Mr. Bloodworth, Mr. Steele,
Mr. White, Mr. Boudinot, Mr. Seney, Mr. Sin
nickfon and Mr. Stone—and supported by Mr.
Smith [S. C.] Mr. Lawrence, Mr. Vining, Mr.
Huntington, Mr. Wadfwortli, and Mr. Clymer.
Adjourned.
FRIDAY, MAY 7.
In Committee of the whole on the bill for a
dapting the Judiciary laws of the United States,
to the State of North-Carolina, some amendments
were agreed to, and several clauses added to t'ie
bill ; the Committee then rose and reported the
fame ; the House acceded to these amendments.
Mr. Bland after stating to the House, that in
consequence of obtaining (as is supposed) a sur
reptitious copy from a public office, of the names
ot olficers andfoldiers in the Virginia and North-
Carolina lines, of the late army, to whom arrears
o: pay were ordered to be made by a law passed the
last felfion of Congress, some persons had frau
dulently procured aflignments of pay, for a con
sideration much below their value. He therefore
moved a resolution to prevent the frauds' taking
place ; in the following words viz. Resolved,
that the Secretary at war, be, and he is hereby
directed to cause accurate lifts to be forthwith
publifliea in the News Papers ofthe States of Vir
ginia and North Carolina, of all the officers and
loldiers, who are intitled to receive certain ar
rears °f pay, due to the lines of the army of the
said States, for which money was granted and
appropriated by Congress, at their last session ;
an<i that the payment be made to the said officers
and soldiers, or where dead, to their legal repre
sentatives, under the fame regulations as have
been adopted for the payment of Invalid pensio
ners, in purfuauce of an A<ftpafled at the last fef
I '"*. yrlion of Congress, entitled "an A<fl, providing
" for the payment of the Invalid pensioners of
" the United States," and that 110 claim of any
allignee, under any transfer or power to receive
the fame be admitted, as valid to entitle any per
son to receive any part of the said arrears of pay,
<lue to the officers or soldiers of the said lines,
except as aforefaid.
This motion was committed to Mr. Bland, Mr.
Williamfon and Mr. Burke.
The bill for adjuftingand fatisfying the claims
of the Baron de Steuben, as reported by the Com
mittee of the whole, was taken up by the House.
An amendment tantamount to afubltitute for the
whole bill, was moved by Mr. Boudinot; which
proposed the payment of 7000 dollars, and an
annuity of 1500 dollars during life, ta commence
from the firft of January 1790; a motion was made,
and arried to itrike out 1 joo dollars, to leave
the sum blank.
The motion for linking out the firft part of
the bill, in order to admit this amendment, was
determined by ayes and noes as follows.
Ayes, Meliieurs Alii, Baldwin, Bloodworth,
Boudinot, Brown, Contee, r'loyd, Folter, Gil
roan, Goodhue, Grout, Lrvermore, Moore, Mil
lenberg, Ranlellaer,Schureman, Seney, Sherman,
Sylvester, Sinnickfon, Smith, (M.) Steele, Stone,
Sturges, Thatcher, Tucker, White, Williamfon.
=8.
Noes, Meffieuis, Ames, Benfon, Bland, Burke,
Cadwallader, Carrol, Clymer, Fitzfimons, Gale,
Griffin, Heiiler, Huger, Huntington, Lawrance,
Lee, Madil'on, Page, Scott, Smith (S. C.) Vining,
Wynkoop, 21.
The amendment was put, and agreed to. Sun
dry other amendments conlequent on this took
place. It was then ordered that the biil be en
grofled for a third reading, on monday next.
Report of the Committee, on the petition of
James Price, was read, which was, that he have
leave to withdraw his petition.
The memorial of N. Twining, was referred to
Mr. Lee, Vining and Mr. Burke. Adjourned
till mondaj.
THE TABLET
" Reniovt the excrcfcc/ices of apaation, fajhltn,
party and fufflon, and man wiII oj htwftiffubjidc in
to common jenfe." '
WHEN a person has discretion enough not to
expose his follies, there is 110 fear of his
moving with feme reputation in almolt auv
fpliei eof life. Various motives prompt men to
aff'ume apart, to which their talents are npi well
adapted; and it is net to be wondered at, that so
many waste their abilities while they pursue the
dilates of paflion and caprice. Men do not so
often miscarry from a defe<ft of capacity as from
a misapplication of it. Common sense does not
require any great portion of intelfects. It con
lilts rather in a proper exercise of moderate abi
lities. Brilliant talents are usually connected
with fuchftrong foibles that they prove of little
real value to the portellbr, or to the reft of man
kind.
The greatest men are often fools in certain in
fiances, and at certain times. The violence of
the imagination leads them into abfurdities,while
their reasoning powers arc clear and perfect.
We imagine wrong much more frequently than
we reason wrong. Mr. Locke in his essay on
the human undemanding observes ; " char mad
men do not appear to have loft their faculry of
reasoning ; but havii.g joined together some ideas
very wrongly, they iniftake them for truths, and
err as men who argue right from wrong princi
pies. Thus you ihall fee a dillra<fted man fan
eying hunfelf a King, with a rightinferei.ee re
quire fuitableattendance, refpea and obedience ;
others who have fancied themselves made ofglafs
have used the caution neceflary to preserve their
brittle bodies. . Hence it comes to pass that a
man is very sober, and of a right under
standing in every thing else, may in one parti
cular be as frantic as any in Bedlam."
Common sense, though it is partly a negative
kind of wifdoin, is very efl'ential j n carrying a
man through the world with honor or fafety.
The fineft parts are no security against errors of
judgment or conducfl. In looking into the af
fairs of men, we fee innumerable finftances of
t j ly and imprudence accompanied with eminenr
talents and accompliniineuts. So strange a com
pound is mail, that the fame person may be both
the vvifeft and weakest being in existence.
PARIS \_Francc~\ March 4.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
A DECREE palled for encreafing the pay of
*■ the army. Each private is to receive, from
the ifl: of May next, an addition of 32 dcniers to
Ins present pay. Twelve deniers make a French
sou ; this augmentation amounts therefore, to
(WO sous and an half and one-twentieth per man
per diem.
Saturday March 6. A letter from Mr Nec
°" :he ate of tbe finances was read to the
•.fler.ibjtr. Jhe contents were far from being
No. CXII
agreeable In the firft place, the Members had
the mortification to find that the nation was in
danger of losing a Minilter in whom the genera
confidence was placed, for he informedfheTf
that hemnft f S hea . lt J'V vas so greatly impaired,
that he must soon withdraw himfelf from the fa'
t.gue of public affairs, and go to Bareges, Spa or
some other place to drink the waters? But that
before he quitted his then exalted but painful
E5 h b C v r' hed to ,f Peak f ° me "-nforfJo the
AHembly, by fhewmg that there was Rood ground
for a hope that the finances of the country wou"d
again appear ,n a flourifhing state. Hut left the
hopes of the nation should be too fanguine on
is head, Mr. Necker informed the Artembly
that it was still m a state of diftrefi and embarrass.
ment, which might becbrae critical, if effectual
i efources were not soon discovered.
According to his calculations, the Treasury must
HundreaVfl f-' supply of u P w ards of Two
Hundred Milhons of Lirres (or about 8,750,0001
fterhng) to be enabled to make good al charge
upon n to the end of the year 17J0. g
Mr Ne cker observed, that if things could go
• r th ° Ut * ny violen t ihock, until
rfce beginning of x 791, t h e State would be out of
LONDON, March 22.
<?\[ r r u°f " Ut ' er f rom, ' ! " Hague, March 14.
that fh 6 J received adv ' ce from Bruflels,
of r ?R Pr °r P V t T^ ,, ! ad^ by thcnew Sovereign
° '■ , Ho ; fe | of Auftna for an accommodation
with the Netherlands, has experienced the fame
fate with the letters from Comte Co be nze in
laid proposal having-been rejedted by the Con
irabant°" W " *** roferred b y the States of
NEW-LONDON, April 3 0.
Extract of a Utter from a gentleman in Barbados, to
tc e Pr'nteri oj this paper t March i, 1 7 00.
It is with pleasure 1 obierve the rapid prow
refs now making in manufactures in Tome of the
Scates, which I have learntchiefly from Mr. Carv's
niufeum, but have not received fofull an account
of what is doing in New-England, as I could wiih.
Any information therefore which you may give me
l"h ! kJ * <•' Wlll j C acce P table - particular,
I beg to be informed what kind of oil your wool
combers mix with their ivool. In the Well of
England, a thick kind of olive-oil is used for that
pui pose ; but the Society of Arts in London has
publ.fhed an account of edulcorating rancid train
oil to uch a degree of purity as to render it fit
lor the woollen manufacture. If this, or any
other fifii oil, is ufedin New-England and is
found to answer tliepeiyoft well, it will be of
lingular benefit to the country, because tliemanu
?ra U ' e wool » ant * the filhery will, in that cafe,
awlt and promote each other. But if this should
not be found fit for the purpose, some of the
Southern Stales should immediately begin the
culture of the olive. Mr. JefFerfon fays, in
his notes on Virginia, that every thing hardier
than the olive will thrive in that State, conse
quently the olive itfelf must thrive in the two
Southern States, as it does in the southern parts
'-ance.—-When Mr. Adams reftded as ambaf
laaor in hngland,an account was publi/hed of Mr.
orte s new method of separating the dross from
iron by which he made pig or ballad iron, re
markably tough m a short time. Mr. Adams,
like a true patriot, sent over the account to New
hngland and it was published inCary'smufeum.
You will be plea fed to inform me if any persons,
in the United Stares, have yet availed themselves
of so valuable a discovery. The iron in New-
England, I am told, is very brittle, therefore Mr.
Cortes method of expelling the dross will be
more neceflary there than in Pennsylvania.
NEW-YORK, SATURDAY, MAY 8.
FROM CORRESPONDENTS.
The people of America endured various and
dreadful evils during the contest with Britain
1 hey justly expected that they should be reward
ed by eltablifhing a free government—the people
of Rhode Island made great exertions in the war.
yet at the end of it, what have they obtained ?
Is property fafe i Is it a government by law or
by men > Is liberty enjoyed there—and if enjoy
ed, by whom—by a part, or the whole? When
iJofton a single town was opprelTed in 1774, all
America aliened her cause. If right may be vio
lated and liberty destroyed in apart of the coun
try wirh impunity and without redress, in the
com fe of time and events it may be destroyed
every where.—The diftrefles of Newport and
Providence are truly deplorable.
Rhode-Jfland is divided by parties. Those who
pay the duties are not the favorites of the govern
ment which imposes them, neither is much con
fidence placed in the wife andjuft disposal of the
revenue ; under such real necellities, and with
so many causes of provocation and complaint, it
is not in human nature to pay the duties eheer
.„A g° vei ;ninent so loosely and capriciously
adtniniftered will not be able to prevent Frauds.
With ruin before their eyes, the traders will be
forced upon the practice of smuggling—the State
is favorably situated for ilJicit of
447
paying duties to the national treasury, the citi.
Zens ofthe Uniied States will in facft pay dutieti
to the rhpportof the government ofllhode-Ifland,
°f the are
Ju. goods jniporied into ilia, Stace,
lauds will multiply in proportion tot .eencreaf
ed rate of duties irnpofed by Congress ; because
the pi ont of fmugglmg will incite to praotife
them. It is rather (hameful to remain tnbutaiy
to that State. Their governor in his public let
ter to the President last September, inarmed that
t iey weie taking measures to pay their part of
ic debt. Is it not time toalk if they are ready !
he collection of the national revenue has been
more popular in this country than it ever was in
any other. This does some honor to the goveru-
ZZI VTZ- t0 the P eo P le - It would be a
great evil if this general approbation should be
l!r UVe * ij to gU<l ;t0 ne ß the Sca L e cre
[ d tors; would not gain theirgood will. But mere
ly to do nothing for them is less exceptionable
than to encroach upon the State funds, and 10
leave them without any provision. It would be
absolute injuft.ee, and those who would fuffer or
even apprehend loss uld feel it with impa
tience, and (pare no indoftry to makeothe i3 feel
or them—so much discontent engendered by
funding part of the debt and taking away the
funds from the other ; with so many active cau
festo extend and encreafe it, will probably make
donrTr""ft u°. IJrecarious > a "d the collec-
A° t h -ft turbulent, and generally obnoxious
hat ever was known. Between the two reve
nue systems, trade will be ground between the
upper and nether mill-stone. What the politi
cal tendency of government scrambling againlt
rZTr" 1 « r T*" wiU be ' »is llot difficult
to predict. But the extent of the evils and what
the remedy will be and when it will come, can
not be foretold.
Extral7 of a letter to a gentleman in this city, dated
■April 28.
I umlerftand the President has been indifpofec
lately—-rim is grievous intelligence, but such as
I expected t° hear-,t is extremely difficult for a
P'f°nofthebeftconft,tution, and in the prime
of life to preserve a flow of health with fucli aa
infinity of care and solicitude on their mind
but ui life s advance-and when the conftituuon
begins to feel the /hocks she early received in the
public service if mtenfe application to public bu
flnefi ,s fuperadded at this period, the pillars of life
will be undermined; and this I understand is the
cause of the late indisposition ; foryour city is
doubtedly one of the healthiefl f.tuations in the
United States combining every advantage of
climate, air and water.
A life so precious, should be watched with the
eyes of Argus ; Health so important, /hould be
the vigilance of Angels—Conltant
exercise m the open air, and perpetually diver
fifyifig the scene, are as neceflary as the ciicula
tionof the vital fluid—That habit of application
must be broken thro-or the Hopc of the western
woud will fail.
I ask pardon for a deviation from my proper
line ; but to the prayers of millions, the molt ac
tive attention lhould be added for the preserva
tion of a life which every one Jeels, but no on*
can express the importance of.
MARRIED]—At Portsmouth, (N. H.) by the
u p F ' ?j Ten ' J OBIAS Le *R> Secretary
to the President of the United States ; to Mi&
Polly Long, daughter to the Hon. Pierce
Loiigj tic[, deceased.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. -NEW.YORK.
Brig Fricndfhip, Gardiner, Liverpool, 36 days
Harmony, Shackerly, St. Euftatia.
Swallow, , Dartmouth.
Schooner Patty, Lacy, Shclburne.
Sloop Hancock, B-own, Hhodc-Tfhnd.
IC7* -<f' th " its Subfcriprion
more particularly than any other newspaper its pat
rons 'Mill realize that punlikaLty in payments is ne
cessary to its exifttnce—The receipts of'the fir ft year
to this time have fallen short one third of the aCiual
expends of the publication—so that it remains to be
determined whether a netufpaper can be supported in
the United States, without deluging it with Adver
t'fements. A large imprejjhn from the commence
ment oj the second volume is ft ruck off, to accommo
date thoje fubfcrtbers who may incline to take the
paper from that period.
By Order of the Honorable Richard Morris, Eh. thief Juflice of the
State of New-York.
"VfOTICE is hereby given to Lewis M'Donald, of Connc&icut,
1 if an abTent debtor, that upon application and due proof made
to the said chief iuftice by a creditor orf the said Lewis M'Don Id
pursuant to an act of the Legislature of the said State, entitled'
An ast for relief againil abfeonding and abfeat debtors." pafl
April, 1786 ; he, the said chief justice, has diretted
all the said Lewis M'Donalds cftate, within this ftdttf, to be seiz
ed, and that unless he (hall discharge his debts within twelve
months after the publication of this notice, the fame will be fold
for the payment of his creditors. Dated the 3d May, 1790.
New-York, May 7, 1790.
A Morning School is opened,
by the Subscriber, for Young Ladies, at Harmony Hall, ad
joining the Baptists burying ground, in Gold Street. Hours of
attendance are from 6 till B.—For further particulars, please to en
quire of the Public's Obedient Servant,
GAD ELY.
* ®* Ladies School which has been kept at k T °'
219 Queen-Sireet, is renioved to the above ptace.
Muy 8, 179©.FROM THE PENNSYLVANIA GAZETTE. '
To the Honorable the MEMBERSof the Legis
lature of Pennsylvania, W
(Continued from our lujl.) J
A7O gun ship may lie before the and at I
many of the wharves, which occupy the
whole ealt front of the city for near 2 miles, af
fording every veflel an opportunity of unlading
and lading without the expence of lighterage,
liafts of timber, plank, boards and staves, with
other articles upon them, can be brought down
the Delaware from the county of Montgomery,
in New York, 200 miles above the city, by the
courle of the river. Some money was expended
by the government and landholders in improv
ing the navigation up towards the source, before
the revolution, and there has been a survey late
begun, for the purpose of proceeding in the im
provement of this and the other principal rivers
of Pennsylvania, and for making communica
tions by canals in the improved part, and by
ro» J s in the unimproved part of the State. The
Pem.fylvanians are much inclined to such enter
prizes, having found great benefit from them,
on the completion of til--- present plan, the Stare
will be as conveniently interfered by roads as
any other of its size in the union, which will
greatly facilitate the settlement of its new lands,
A flight view of the map ot Pennsylvania in the
Hon?Mr. Jefferfon's Notes on Virginia, or the
Rev. Mr. Moife's Geography will (hew how fine
ly this State is watered by the Delaware and its
branches, the Schuylkill, the Juniata, the Suf
quebanna and its branches, the Ohio, Allegany,
Younghiogeny, and Monongahela. The Patow
mac and lake Erie also afford profpeifts of con
fiderable benefit from their navigation. Nature
has done much lor Pennsylvania in regard to in
land water carriage, which is strikingly exem
plified by this fa<ft, that although Philadelphia
and lake Erie arediftant from eacn other above
300 miles, there is no doubt but that the rivers
of the State may be so improved, as to reduce the
Jand carriage between them nine tenths. 111 the
fame way the navigation to Pittfburg, after due
improvement, may be uled inflead ot land car
riage for the whole distance, except 23 miles.
By these routes it is clcar, that a large propor
tion of the foreign articles used on the weilern
waters mult be transported, and that their firs,
Ikins, ginseng, hemp, flax, pot-alh, and other
valuable commodities may be brought to 1 hilu
delphia. The Hemp and oak timber for the Ruf
fian navy is transported by navigation
1200 miles, and yet the hemp is (hipped from
that kingdom 011 lower terms than from any other
patt of the known world. Rulfia, long since the
lettlemenc of Pennsylvania by civilized and en
lightened people, was in a Stare of absolute bar
barism, and deflitute of these improvements.
Much therefore is to be expected from the con
tinued exertions of the prudent, indullrious and
sensible inhabitants of Pennsylvania, in the course
of the present century.
A considerable pare of the lands of this State
remain for sale by the public. They are usually
paid for in the funded public debts, which are at
all times to be bought in the market. With all
the charges upon them, to the completion of the
title tbev will cost the purchaser from one fifth
to one third of a Mexican dollar per acre, accord
ing; to the price of flock or the debts, and the
lands he inclines to buy. The ready money is
neceflavy in these cases, because the State does
not fell on credit. Purcliafes however can be al
ways made, partly or wholly on credit, from pri
vate persons, who take mortgages on t.ie lands
they fell to emigrants, and indulge them with a
•very easy credit. In these cases the price is high
er of courfc. The I'ennfylvanians haying no
difnutes with the Indians about boundaries and
all the land? within the State being purcliafed at
a-fair and open treaty, and there being fotne fet
tfements weihvard of Pennfylvama on the new
lands of Congreft, we have little apprehensions
from the Indians any where, and in molt of our
new country there is no danger at aIK
Good lands in the old counties of this State fell
aeneraltv at a certain ftim for a farm, incluuing
The buildings. This, before the war, was, in
most of the. thick fettied counues within a finart
dav's ride of Philadelphia, from four pounds ten
{hillings fteiling, to thirty-fix (hillings per acre,
According to the quality, unlefsin iKuanons very
near the city or some town, or m cases of veiy
valuable buildings, mills, taverns, or situations
tnde. In one or two counties, le
markable for the richness of the lands, they fold
higher, sometimes considerably. larms
be fold for as good prices or good payments
ns could then be obtained, owing to the quanti
ty of new lands for faleby this and several other
Stages and by Congress ; and owing to fevetal
new awl profitable uses for money, that d,d not
S before the revolution. Some poor lands u,
the old counties fell for still lower prices.
The produce, manufactures and exports of
Pennsylvania are very many and various , viz.
wheat, Hour, midlines, fhip-ftuff, bran >
thin-bread, white water biscuit, rye, rye flour,
Indian corn or maize, Indian meal, buckwheat,
buckwheat meal, bar and pig iron, steel, nail rods,
nails, iron hoops, rolled iron tire, gun-powder,
cannon ball, iron cannon, mufquets, (hips, boats,
oars, handspikes, malls, spars, Ihip timber, fliip
blocks, cordage, square timber, scantling, plank,
fcoard, staves, heading, lliingles, wooden hoops,
tanners bark, corn-fans, coopers wares, bricks,
coarse earthen or potters ware, a very little or
dinary flone ware, glue, parchment, shoes, boots,
foal leather, tipper leather, drefled deer ?.nd
Iheep lkins, and gloves and garments thereof, fine
hats, many common, and a few coarse ; thread,
cotton, worded and yarn hosiery, writing, wrap
ping, blotting, Iheathing and hangingpaper, Ita
tionary, playing cards, palleboards, books, wares
of brass, pewter, lead, tin-plate, copper, silver
and gold, clocks and watches, mulical initruments,
fnufF, manufactured tobacco, chocolate, milliard
feed and mustard, flax feed, flaxfeed oyl, flax,
hemp, wool, wool and cotton cards, pickled beet,
pork, shad, herrings, tongues andfturgeon, hams
and other bacon, tallow, hogs lard, butter, cheese,
candles, soap, bees wax, loaf sugar, pot and pearl
allies, rum and other flrong waters, beer, porter,
hops, winter and fuminer barley, oats, spelts, o
liions, potatoes, turnips, cabbages, carrots, pars
nips, red and white clover, timothy, and moll
European vegetables and grades, apples, peaches,
plumbs, pears, apricots, grapes, both native and
imported, and other European fruits, working
and pleasurable carriages, horses, black cattle,
rtieep, hogs, wood for cabinet makers, lime (tone,
coal, frce-ltone and marble.
Some of these productions are fine, some indif
ferent ; some of the manufactures are consider
able, for a young country circumstanced as this
has been, some inconsiderable ; but they are enu
merated, to (how the general nature of the state,
and the various purfoits of the inhabitants. In
addition to thein we may mention, that a lead
mine and two or three fait- springs have been dis
covered in our new country, which will no doubt
be worked, as soon as the demand for these arti
cles to the wellward increases* We ought also to
notice our great forefts lor making pot and pearl
aflies. (To be continued.)
TRANSLATED
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
FROM THE LETDEN GAZETTE
Pubhfhed by Stipkin Luzac.
[A Paper that is considered in Europe as the most
authentic medium of fntelligence—and as fucli
circulates more exrenfively than any other si
milar publication.]
CONTINUED.
B R U SS E"fTS, January, 4.
THE states of Flanders, lonrj since united by bonds of friend
fhip and intereit with the states of Brabant, and animated by
the fame spirit for the prefervatton of their rights and privileges,
have thought that the only mode of attaining their Independence,
and securing their libeity, was by uniting themselves with the
province of Brabant, and concluding a treaty of offenfive and de
fenfive union, under this express condition—that neither party
ever enter into compromise with its former sovereign, but by com-
mon agreement.
The states of Flanders being further willing toteftifv their Gn
rcre frftncKhto towards the states of Brabant, by the moll unequi
vocal acts, agree to the propofitK>n made to them through the
hands of M. Van Eupen, to charge this union into one common
sovereignty of the two states, so that all the power and exercifc of
it may be centered in a Congress, which mall be composed by
deputies named by those parties, according to the article of orga
nization to be agreed on hereafter, on true principle* of ftri£t iuf
tice, and di£Uted for the common good. The intention of the
contra&ing party is, that from henceforward the power of this
I ldvereign alTembly (hall be confined to the sole objedf of common
I defence, to the power of making peace and war, the- fupportof a
1 national militia, and the maieten mce of the ncceftary iortificati
jonsior the defence of the country, to contrast alliances with fo
reign powers, and in short to perform whatever regards the com
imon interests ol the tw.o states, as well as those which may here
after think fit to accede to this union.
The states of Flanders flatter theinfelves that the states of "Brabant
will find in this declaration, 4 lure guarantee fpr the loyal senti
ments they proftfs towards ti»e states of Flanders, and their zeal
jfor the common cause ; and they doubi not but that the states of
( Brabant will shew a like disposition towards them.
To this declaration the states of Brabant have publiftied an an
swer, assenting to the offer on nearly the fame terms as the origi
nal.
The provinces of Malines, Tournay, Namur, Hainault, and all
other provinces formerly belonging to Austria, have acceded to
this ast, and have promifcd the eaily arrival oftheir deputies at
Bruflfels, to enter more fully into the views of the dates of Bra
jbaptand Flanders.
On the laifc ciay of theoldydar the states of Brabant aOetnltftJ at
the hotel de Ville. where they mutually adminiflered to each other
an oath, religvoufly to prefer e the lights, privileges, and consti
tution of the countiy, in prefe'nee of the sovereign council of Bra
bant, who, in like manner took an oath from the hand ol the
states, as representatives of thfc people. A large concoui fe of ci
tizens attended to fee this happy ceremony, and on that night
Ihcre was a general illumination throughout the city.
PO L A N D, December 18.
Pi. A N OF THE NEW CONSTITUTION.
Art. I. Determiners tht rights of fovcrcignty, which b long
to the nation, paUicularJy thit of ele&ing a King.
Art. 11. All landholders (hall have ihc right of giving their
fufFrages in the ele&ion of reprefmtatives.
Art, 111 Fixes the term of each diet to two years at the ex
piration of which they (hall render an account of their conduct to
their constituents.
Art. IV. Requires the unanimous vote of the diet in the for
mation of all furrdam.ntal law?, three-fourths of thevottfs for all
political laws, two-thirds for taxes and imposts, and the iimple
plurality of votes for all civil and criminal laws.
Art.V. A plurality of threo-fiurths of the votes or the diet
(hall be necessary in all questions concerning foreign alliances and
treaties of peace.
Art. VJ. The prcfervation of the laws, and the whole powei
of the executive government, (hall reft with the Kin<- and his
Council the members of which shall be re<ponfitlc to the diet
for their conduct.
-448-
Art. VII. The tribtlnatj of the diet fliall prefcrve tlieir juiifw
diction, but the limits of it shall be more llnCily defined.
Art. VIII. The constitution being eftaiilithed on these prin
ciples, it shall be guaranteed that the confederate diet lhall no lor.
ger exilt, and that all laws agatnft the principles of the above ail
utles, lhall be declared null and void.
These articles, arc to be referred for future confederation.
PARIS, December 31.
The report of the Committee oi Enquiry hai ween pul»ii(h cc i
concerning the conspiracies of the months of May, June, and | u J
last, which is contained in sixty ofctavo pages ; it afTcrts, IU,
there has been a conspiracy against the liberty of the French
nation, the national atlcmbly, and the city of Paris in particula,
Second, that this conspiracy was a crime of treason againlltlienal
tion, or against hii majesty. Third, that the keeper of [lit seals
of Barentin, Count dePuvfegur, Maifhal Broglio, Baron Befcnv,|
and Bertheir intendant of Pari*, have been concerned in this cofi
(■piracy, which they directed. Koui ih, that uothjngcan exculpate
the conspirators in the eye of justice.
Dec. 28. The prefidrnt annonnced to the national aflcfnbly
that the king had fandioned the ■Irfrees re/petting mumipaliie'
and that, which declares the non, Catholics admillible to all civil
and military employments. OnTutfday the twenty-ninth, uuhe
evening, the deliberations 011 the offer of several Geneva citizen of
900,000 livres, as a proof of their attachment, was refufetl. Mr
Volney who spoke before 011 the fubjeft on the twenty-fourth exl
plained his sentiments again with more energy and fulnefs, main
taining " that this offer was made by the heads of a people, whose
" servitude had been gsurantced by the miniftersofFrar.ee in for.
" mer treaties, and that a freenation could not acccpi, the fhamc
ful price of the slavery ol anothtr people." This gift fiyshc, is
owing to a luuJc which ought to profit Je it: It is a return jot lit p,o
tedion, which we have granted the Anjlocrats of Geneva: It is the ex
change for a gauranti, which they wt/h to perpetuate, and which you uii/l
Jhort/y perhaps te calledupon to dejlroy. Mr. Volneya fpecch which
was vigouroully fpported by Count Mirabeau, made a great im
prefiion on the assembly, which not only ordered it to be printed
together with the letters and memorials which he read to verify
hisafTertion. but likewise unanimously decided (M. de Lufignan
only excepted) " that the assembly would not accept the offer of
' the (»en«va contribution,and that the president should communi
" cate this decree to the firft minister of the finances."
New-York City Lottery.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, for the purpofc of raifmg Set en Thou-
Jund five Hundred Founds, agreablc to an AC 1* of the Lec
ture oi the State of New-York, passed Bth February, 1790.°
S C
1 PRIZE of
3
10
3°
5°
120
180
795°
8346 Prizes, ) . ,
1 Blanks, J a s°° o Tickets, at 40;. each, £ .50000
Subjefk to a dedu£lion of Fifteen per Cent.
I HEobjeft oftliis LOTTERY being to raise a part of the sum
nrvuf. . y , thc c " r P ,,ratl <"i for repairing and enlarging theCl
ry HALL, for the accommodation of CONGRESS, whichdocs
so much honor to the Architcft, as well as credit to the city. The
managers presume that their fellow Citizens will cheerfully con
cur in promoting the sale of Tickets, especially as the fuccefi <.f
this Lottery will relieve them from a tax, which mu;l otherwise
be laid to reimburle the corporation.
I he above SCHEME is calculated in a manner very beneficial
to adventurers,there not being two blanks to a prize.
J he Lottery is intended to commence drawing on the First
Monday in August next, or sooner if filled, of which timely
notice will be given. A lilt of the fortunate numbers will be pub
iiihed at theexpiraiion'ot the drawing.
I ickets are to be fold by the fubferibers, who are appointed
Managers by the Corporation.
Isaac Stoutinburch, Abraham Jlerrikc,
.. P £TER T • Cur John Pintard.
A'era-York, 6th March t 1790.
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59 ,t0 No, >87, Watcr-StRXt,
Fly-Market,
WHERE they negociate all kinds ofPUBUCX
SECURITIES— BILLS OfijEXCHANGE. See. n'lifioL. ,
New-) ork, April 8, >790. \ -t£
William Taylor,
Has for Sale, at Wis EAST-INDIA GOODS STOKE,
No. 4, BuftiiNc-SLir,
Aflbrtment of EAST-INDIA GOOD®.
Among which arc the following Article) j
BOOK Muilim 8.4 6-4 5-4. || HUMHUMff,
Jackomt do. jj I.oogClptlw,
Hankcrchicfs.of rarioui kin<3'j,| Caffan,
Chintzes, j Seersucker},
ginghams, J BtoglanorA.
A XT • S* « - _.T» '
A Variety of handsome painted MUSLINS.
With mauy other Articles* which will be fold by the Piece or
_____ Package, low for cash.
John Smith & Peter Wendover,
BSAIL-MAKEIfc,
F.G leave to inforjn their Friends iJd th& Public in senerar,
■ tint they have cfimmencc3 bßfinefs in cobartnerihip >n tncif
liue, under the Firm of SMITH and WEN DOVER, in the Sail-
L.ottin Front Street, opposite Wharf (near the Col
ee- ou e) ormerly occupied by Car me r and Smith, and latciT <•
y john m ith, Those Gentlemen who will be pleated to iU
vor t em with their custom may depend upon havinktheir
ne m t e eft manner, and on as short notice as can bbexpe£led.
New-York, May i, 1790. * j
N advert units!: —*
O T I C E is hereby given to all the creditors of Philip
Denman, nowconhned in the common gaol of Newark,
e county of Essex, That the Honorable Court of Common
A,JM andfor .'*?' id county, have appoinled Tuefdav the sj h
iJh r !J ill* r creditors of laid Philip Denm'an, to meet
2.? n. r !" Ncwark > at n' n e o'clock of the dav aforefaid,
ndlhewcaufeto the judge of the said Cou.t if anv they have,
why an amgiime.il of thefaid infolvem debtors eftat'e (hould not
I,.rT'f m i r discharged according to the aa of the Legisla
ture of New-Jerky in such cafe made and provided.
PHILIP DENMA.V.
Newark, April 14, 17qo .
Moses Rogers, and Co.
TT AVE removed their STORE to the New Building, comet
v ? w n " Hllland Queen-Street) fronting Burling
Nm-\ork,May 5 , , 79 0.
heme.
£.SOOO
1000
s°o
200
j 00
5o
20
10
4
£.3000
2COO
Itsoo.1 t SOO.
2000
3000
2500
2400
1800
31800