PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEXNO, No. 41, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 7, of Vol. 11-j
TRANSLATED
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
fROM TriE LETDEN GAZETTE
Published by Stephen Luzac.
TA Paper that is considered in Europe as the most
authentic medium of Intelligence—and as such
circulates more extensively than any other fi
juilar publication.]
CONTINUED.
COPENHAGEN, 26 Dec. 1789
THE day before yesterday tlie Supreme Tribu
nal, whifh reviied the process of the confpi •
racy to burn the ftriUiaii and Daniili fleets in our
ports, pronounced definitejudgment,by which the
Sieur Benzelllierna is condemned to be beheaded.
His accomplices, O'Brien, and Shields, to public
labor for life. The only hope which at present
remains for the unfortunate Swiss officer, is in the
King's clemency.
ExtraCl of a Utter from Paris, 31 Dec.
The Marquis and Marchioness de Favras were
apprehended on the night of the 24th and 2Jth.
They wereaccufed of letting on foot a plot to af
faflinate M. Neckar, the Marquis de la Fayette,
and M. Bailly, to fill Paris with armed people,
carry off the King, See. On the morning of the
26th, Monfieui the King's brother, had an inter
view with the Marquis and M. ,Bailly—in confe
tjuence of which it is presumed, that he formed
the resolution of addreliing the Commons of Pa
ris in perfon,to refute the odious measures impu
ted to him. He was received by the Represen
tatives and the Saltefies with every mark of ap
plause, and placed in an armed chair on the left
fide of the Mayor.
M. Bailly answered his speech in terms expres
sive of the favorable ideas whichthe Commons ol
Paris entertained of the Brother of a King, who
was the Reflorer of French Liberty, complimented
him on his having shewn himfelf as the firlt citi
zenof the kingdom, byvotingfur the third estate
in thefecond Aflembly of the Notables. He con
cluded with offering him, in the name of the As
sembly, the tribute of refpeCi and acknowledg
ment which were due to his iciuiments—the ho
nor of his presence, and more particularly to the
value hefet on the esteem of Freemen.
M. Bailly's difconrfe was received with the
loudest acclamations, and a cry of No pardon .'No
pardon for tliofe who had accnfed him in so hei
nous a manner, as to aflociate his name with those
guilty people. Monsieur however exprefled his
desires to pursue lenient measures. M and Ma.
dam Favras have been committed prifonei s to the
Abby de St. Germain, as guilty of treason againjl
the nation.
Monsieur not fatisfied with juftifyiii£ linnfeU
before the commons of Paris, conceived the mat
ter of so serious a nature as to induce him to
write a letter to the national Aflembly on the fub
jeft, which was read on Monday 20th December,
afte'rwhich the Duke de Levis, proposed, that
the committe of enquiry of the national Aflembly
" should take immediate measures with those of
the city of Paris, to report as soon as possible
concerning the affairs of M. de Favras, and what
they may discover refperting the injurious libel
•against Monsieur." M. Alexander de Lamets
obl'erved on this motion, " that although Mon
sieur was the firfl citizen of the kingdom, like
other citizens he was fubjeift to the laws, that
the Aflembly ought not to order a particular
search warrant for a libel, in his favor, that this
matter ought to be referred to the proper tribu
nals, that the Chatelet having already taken
up the bulinefs, it ought to reft tlieie. M.
le Chapei.ier, and the Count de Mirabeau
ftmporting the fame principles, the Aflembly de
creed that there v>as no necejfity to deliberate on the
fubjefi.
Previous tothe difcuflion on Monsieur s letter,
the Aflembly after a long and animated debate
decreed, that the federal provincial States and
departments fliould deliver up iill accounts, pa
pers and proceedings relative to the administra
tion of the feveial departments, to the per ion 8
appointed to succeed them by the national Al
fembly.who are to invefligate all accounts for
the last ten years ; excepting tliofe of the trea
surers and receivers deceased, and alio such ac
counts as have been adjudged by the superior
<o Afur which it was decreed without much dif
ficulty " that in those provinces where the mu
nicipal officers poflefs the exercile of juris diction
in civil and litigntcd matters, they (hould continue
provisionally, the fame functions as heretofore,
until the organization of the judicial v powei s.
441
WEDNESDAY, MAT j, 1790
THE BRAVE ENGLISHMAN.
LONDON, FEB. 11.
MR. NESHEM, the young midftiipman, whole
gallantry in saving the life of M. Plan-
TAißE,attlie instant when a savage mob were,
from the fimilitudeof his face and height to those
of a Nobleman of the Aftriflocratic party, hurry
ing him to execution, procured the decree of a
Civic Crown, and a Sword of the uniform of the
National Guard, from the AfTeinbly of the Com
mons of Paris, isdailv expe<ftedin England. Ihe
Prefidert, in tonimß,*>icating the decree to Mr.
Nefhem, addressed him in the following terms :
" roUNG STRANGER,
" You have merited well of.the capital of the
French Empire, in saving a citizen which isilear
to it, at the hazard of your own life ! The Aflem
bly of the Commons wishes to acquit itlelf of the
debt,by prefentingyouwith its acknowledgments.
" After the example of Rome, in the days of
its glory and liberty, it presents you with a Civic
Crown, as the reward of your virtue.
" It arms you with the sword of the National
Guard, to be the future instrument of your cou
rage. Your parents will there read, and not
without interest, the infeription of your generous
atchievement.
" When on your return you shall meet the re
gard of your country—you shall fay, that you
have seen, on the banks of the Seine, a people
brave and long addiifted to frivoli
ty —but who now enjoy with pleasure tlieoccafion
of recompenftng virtue—You will tell them, that
free nations are as brethren—that France and
England owe to each other a reciprocal elteem,
and that the objecfl mod worthy the ambition of
each is—to insure the general happiness of hu
manity 1"
|C7= We have seen French papers which contain
the particulars of the above event—ami we have taken
June pains to aftertain them—as y wh le they teflij)' t0
the intrepidty of the gallant EngHjhman —they are
flrikingty denionflrable »f the gratitude of our allies :
it fee its thai M PlaiHpire had been fcized the
tnobj who, mob-like, were hurrying him to the fatal
lamp-poji for execution, without a hearing —The Na
tional Guards, under the Marquis de laF ay ett e,t vert
marching to his rescue : But the cord was tied round
his neck, and his body almojt fufpindcd in the air ,when
Mr. Nefhem, knowing M. Plantaire's innocence,
rushed through the crowd to prevent the execution : He
was told that herifqued his life in the attempt—to this
he replied, " That he had rather do that, than
an innocent man should fuffer' and immedi
ately with his sword, cut the halter, jufl above AI.
Plantaire's head. Before the mob could again
make it Jafl, M. Plantaire was rescued —and thus
through the bravery oj a jlranger, preserved to his
country, Mafia. Centinel.
CHURCHES.
Londoh, how magnificent —how populous.
London, from the number of its churches, must
be the inoft religious city in the world—yet the
churches of London are seldom full—generally
empty —For, in London, religton is a trade car
ried on by gospel-managers, in golpel-fhops. —
One, two, three, —hundred methodist meeting
houses, in each of which the Preacher goes upon
this text, " lam the way What, is there but
one way to heaven .' O, many ways—in London,
there are as many ways pointed out for a man s
foul, to journey towards heaven, as towards the
opposite point—and each has its Overseers.
You may goto heaven by the uew light, or the
old light; thro the Moravian half-penny hatch— the
Mugeletotiian foot-path—the turn-stiles ofmetho
difm, or a hundred other ways, laid down in the
geography of the different preachers but then
each ofthefe ways has its parallel, that kads to
a different climate.
LEYDEN, [ United Provinces.'] fib. 16.
By letter! from New York, of so late a date as Bth Jan. last, we
are informed, that on that very day, the Congress of the United
State, of America met for the ad time since the adoption of the
New Conftitution,to which even Nonh-Carolina had.lately acce
ded On the solemn occasion, the illuftnous WASHINGTON
opened the feflions by deliver.ng a speech full of congratulations
and exhortations, ab/olutely on the model of those delivered in
Parliament by the King of England, with the following difference
only in the way of dressing.
\ Co-citizens of the Senate,and, oj the House of RefreJentaUves.&c.
id. —Gentlemen of the House of Reprcfintattves, £Sc,
od —Gentlemen of the Senate, and of the House of ReprefentaUves,
" I have directed the proper officers to lay before you the pa
pers and estimates," &c. -
Thu-weobferve, to (hew not only that very little is wanting to
Mi. WASHINGTON to be something like « King; butthatlet
the fiift niagiilratcof any country bear the title that fancy may ap
&us°
propriate to him, the time is at hand when all European govern
ments mud be modelled upon those of old and New-England :
Mankind will hear no more of absolute Monarchy. The King ot
[he French has given up the offenfive motto, God and my
sword ; all the Potentates are aware of the neceflity of following
the wife example : They are only anxious how to meet the wish
of the people with something like good gtace.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31.
The proportion for affami'ig tie State debts under cmfideratiotl.
MR. SMITH (S. C.) replied to Mr. Williamfon, he said he
was not afraid of the assumption business loling ground by
a reconsideration. He was sorry tohear that North-Carolina would
be defrauded of half a million by the measure, but he believed
there was more probability of a fraud being committed, it no as
sumption was jo take place. Part of the gentleman's reasoning,
said Mr. Smith goes more in favor of the meafurs than againd it;
and the remainder of his arguments are not difficult to refute.
The gentleman has observed that it was imprudent to add to
the debt, which was already a large one, by the assumption ; that
the amount of the date debts was uncertain, and that a dooi'was
dill to be opened to encreafe them : It is not adding to a debt,
Mr. Smith said, to acknowledge those we owe, and we have al
ready resolved that Congress owes these debts which have been
improperly called date debts, because they were Incurred for ge
neral purposes ; it is not a wanton a£t, but an honed avowal, that
these debts ought to be paid by the union—their aflual amount is
immaterial if they are due. Has not the house declared they will
fund the domed'ic debt, and is that all liquidated ? There are
eighty millions of continental bills Hill unsettled, a man cannot
refufe paying a just debt because he is notacquainted with the pre
cise amount of all his debts; no door is opened to new claims
from individuals, but only a permifllon to the states to bring for J
ward tbeir claims, this will not encreafe the amount of the (late
debts, for they are already liqui<J«ted by the several states, it will
only affect the final fettlemcnt between the states and the United
States. The fame member has said, that North-Carolina owes
to her citizens a large debt, amounting <o several millions which
she has assumed, and which Congress ought to pay, and he addu
cesthat as an argument against the assumption, when in fa& it is
the strongest reason he could have offered to shew its justice and
propriety; lor it would be the height of injustice to burden that
state with the payment of a large sum which (he does nAt owe ;
but if the measure is wrong, he would vote against it, although it
should be for the intercft of North-Carolina. In this the gentle
man was to be commended ; but the committee of the whole, af
ter fair difcuflion, had declared the measure to be right; if it was
right when that vote was taken, an adventitious circutnflance
could not make it wrong. Suppose North-Carolina had not ac
ceded, then the measure would have been declared a right one by
a decided majority ; its accession cannot make it a wrong one,
especially when it is so obvious that it will befor her mtereft.
We are cautioned against the imprudence of undertaking what
we cannot pay ; but either the state debts are to be paid, or they*
are not. If they are never to be paid, I give up the argument;
iftheyareto be paid, and that is admitted on all fides, then lam
clear it will be moreeafy for Congress to pay them than the dates*
it will require less money to be levied on the people. The resour
ces are the fame, whether they are paid by the one or the other;
but the collection will b« moie simple and economical in the out
cafe than in the other. The only qucftion is, whether these re
fourcei (hall flow into the pockets of the creditors through one
channel or through thirteen. The Secretary of the Treafufy ha»
allured us he has ample funds for the purpose, and others in re- »
serve, without laying a land-tax; his calculations have been ques
tioned, but as he is a responsible officer, who has undoubtedly
contemplated the fubjefl with attention, and whose reputation is
in some measure pledged for the accuracy of his reports, I am in
clined to give credit to them, until I hear them refuted, from
his calculations it is evident, that the state debts may be funded
with the greatest ease by the union, ani with infinitely more ad
vantage to the people in general than by the several dates. To
prove our inability, we have been told, that the inhabitants of
France who reside in Paris, contribute each 64 livres annually,
and those who dwell in the country 19 livres, to the government.
Apply this to the citizcns of the United States, and what will be
ttiercfalC: Suppose 200,000 inhabitants dwelling in towns, pay
ing annually 64 livres, or fourteen dollars, this would furniflith6
sum of 2,800,000 dollars; And suppose 2,800,000 inhabitants re
siding in the country, paying nineteen livres, or three and an
half dollars, this would give 9,800,000 dollars, making together
the aggregate sum of 12,600,000 dollars; but the sum required
for the interest on the debt, including those of the several states
and the civil lift, is only 3,840,000 dollars, leaving a surplus re
venue of 8,760,000 dollars. Thus the instance which the gentle
man cites, to prove the inadequacy of our resources, has a direct
contrary effect, and if applicable contradi&s his own assertions.
It is said that the impost will be inadequate to the purpose, and
is uncertain, and that a poll and land tax, which may be collett
ed with greater certainty, are to be deprecated, because they
would be odious to the people. I adroit that if the state creditors
are excluded from the benefits of the impost, it will be ineffici
ent even to discharge the interest on the continental debt, because
the obftruttions which will be thrown in its way by the state le
gislatures in funding the state debts, and the facility which will
be given to smuggling by the injured state creditors, will conside
rably reduce the avails of the impost which may be laid for that
purpose ; but if the state creditors who are considerably more
numerous than the other class are included in the provision, they
will have an interest in supporting the due colle&ioe of the re
venue, and the general popularity of the impost will ensure its
operation. If the citizens of North-Carolina deprecate a dire&
tax, they will find their advantage in the aflfumption ; for if they
are left to fund their own debts, they must resort to dire6l taxes
they are deprived of the impost althogether ; little or no Revenue
can be drawn from a state cxcifer-they must therefore raise all
their supplies by a direfb tax. One orother of thefeconfequences
must therefore ensue ; either that state must distress her citizens an
nually byimpofmg an enormous direst tax payable in good money,
or she must defraud her creditors by paying them off in a depre
ciated paper. —These are hard alternatives, but they are the in
evitable fconfequencea of a non-aflumption.
The member from that state has said that her citizens, though
numerous, are not wealthy. This is another reason, in my judge
ment, why the aflumption would be advantageous to them ; for
citizens who are not wealthy, contribute less to the revenue by
impost than by direst taxes. A poor man pays as much by a poll
tax as a rice man ; but each individual pays by an impost only in
[Whole No. in.]proportion to his riches. He contends, however; that a direst
lax, though jt would be obnoxious to the people, if coUe&ed by
continental authority, would be acccptable, it" levied by the au
thority of the states. When we advert to the funding fyftcms of
the several slates, we shall find them less beneficial to the people
than is imagined. The mode of issuing certificates for interest,
jnd calling them in by a dircft tax, is injurous both to the credi
tors and to the other citiaens. The creditor is heaviiy taxqd in
order to pay himfelf ; money is taken from him in the fir ft instance
10 pay him the interest on his debt; the poorer part of the com- 4
rt)unity who are Unprovided with these certificates delay purcha
sing them till they are prefled for their taxes, and then they are
iupplicd at an enhanced rate by an accommodating fpcculator, or
a friendly colle&or, who had previously bought them up for the
puipofe; the creditor receives no benefit, the public derive no
.advantage, the citizens are heavily taxed, and the fpcculatois get
all the profit.
The conftar.t fln&uation in their schemes of finance is another
diftrcfling circumstance to the citizens In one feflion those who
have purchased public property for which they are to pay in state
paper, and which it becomcs their interest to depreciate, gain the
ascendancy and carry mealures produ6live of that effect. In the
next, the holders of the state oaper preponderate, and in their
turn procure a system which will appreciate the paper. Thus the
people are embarrassed and diftrelled by these speculations and
contentions.
The numerous tax collectors in the different states is another
cause of expcnce and inconvenience to the citizens. A direst tax
in every state would require, under state regulations,
collc&ors, all of whom mull be paid by the people for their trou
ble. There is another consequence reciting from dire£t taxes of
a very fcrious nature -Individuals pre too apt to neglect making
provision for their taxes in due fcafon; executions are iffaed a
£atnft them,their property is levied upon and they have ultimatrly
to pay poundage and constable fees, which sometimes amount to
inore than the tax itfelf. All these grievances are remove dby re
sorting to the import, and that species of revenue will alone be
nearly competent to provide for the state debts, if aflumed by the
union. Even (hould Congress resort to dircdt taxation 'and lome
members from the fouthcrn states have exprefTed a predilettion
for it) there is no doubt that it would be levied in a mode adapt
ed to the particular habits and convenience of every state ; for by
the constitution it is not required that taxes, like duties and excise
Ihould be uniform; and as each ftete has its particular reprcfenta
tion in this house, it is evident that the accommodation of the dif
ferent parts of the union would be confultcd : It would also be
levied with more economy under one system than under thirteen.
The ceflion which the state of North-Carolina has made to the
United States is said to contain a provision which is opposed to the
aflumption : the provision referred to only relates to the final ad
justment of the accounts between the individual states; for it re
quires that in such adjustment the lands ceded,and the inhabitants
belonging thereto, shall not be estimated in ascertaining the pro
portion of North-Caroliua with the other states in the common
expence occanoned by the war.
An amendment proposed by that state to the constitution has
also been expatiated on, as manifefting her aversion to this mca
fure; it is rather extraordinary that this conftru&ion should be
given to the amendment, when the house have been told that the
idea of an aflumption was never contemplated in that slate; indeed
it was improbable the citizens of that country should endeavor to
guard against a measure, the bare portability of which had never
occurred to them. An attentive examination of that amendment
will prove that it evinces no such intention as has been attributed
to it; as it relates expressly to all the states, it could not have had
North-Carolina exclusively in view, nor was it dcfigned to guard
against any interference with her state paper alone ; As it parti
cularly relates to an interference by Congress or the judiciary, it
an apprehension of some interference by the federal courts,
which eould not be involved in a question of aflumption ; it is
therefore evident that the true interpretation of that amendment
is that the convention of that state were apprchcnfive of some in
terpolation of the judicial courts of the United States, in enforcing
payment of her state Cecurities. That it docs not relate to the
question of aflumption is clear, hecaufe were it calculated to pre
vent an aflumption, it would have said so in explicit terms, and
declared that Congress should not pay her state debts; and because
the genxleman from that state has informed the committee that
they never dreamt of an aff'iinption. North-Carolina, is unwil
ling that Congress should dittate to her how fhc should discharge
her debt, but it does not appear that (he has any objection to Con
gress afluming and paying it themfelvcs.
Admit however the full force of the remark, and it would tend
to restrain Congress from funding even the continental and fo
reign-debt without the a (Tent oftwo thirds of the members pre
sent in both hojjfes; for another amendment from that state re
quires that no navigation law, or law regulating comuicrce should
pass except in the above mode; and the funding fyftcm cannot go
into operation without Inch laws. The gentleman however woirJd
have no obje£lion; he fays, tr the assumption, provided security
could be given that there woul d be a settlement of ihc accounts
of the fcveraJ states, but there is no such proviso in the amend
ment ; if it has in view theailumpuon, it is opposed t<s it under
•auy modification whatfocver. How can he then reconcile his
Jlate to a vote gi\ en in contradiction to their express sentiments,
merely becaufethc buflne.s would be put in a shape which is pa
'iutable to hiinfelt, is no t this another proof that the amendment
did not relate to th "ifiumption ?
Another local objc&ion is started from that state : It is said
that she has i(Tued paper money with winch (he has bought up
an 4 paid ofF certificates, and which paper money she mull lay
taxes to redeem, and if Congress do not alFume lhat paper, as pait
of her debt, she will be under the neceflity of paying taxes to link
it, and at the fame time of contributing her proportion ot reve
nue for the debts of other states, and that this would be defraud
ing her of half a million of dollars, the amount ot the paper to
emitted. If that state has funk a part of her debt, Congress will
have less to aflume on her account in proportion to the sum dis
charged* there will be consequently a tmaller charge against her
in the ultimate settlement, and she will become a creditor state in
the fame proportion; if therefore the has bought in her own cer
tificates under par, or paid them ofF with paper in a depreciated
state, she has bten a gainer by the negotiation, and is ui a better
condition than those states which have not had this advantage :
The revenue she will contribute willte applied as well to the
payment of her own debts as those of other states, which will also
contribute their proportion to the payment of her debts. But no
mcafures, it is said, arc in forwardnefs for the completion of this
settlement. CommitTioners of accounts have been engaged a con
siderable tiny: 111 this business, and are now pursuing it.with the
aflfiftance of a numerous body of clerks, and are in a train of set
tlement. Should other measures be thought requisite to expedite
and ciifure the adjuftinent, Congress may accompany the afTump
tion with a bill making special and effe£lu3l provision for that ob
je&. Noith-Carolina it is laid, is apprehensive least some fecui i
ties of that state which were fraudulently iirued ftiould be funded
by the union, and charged to her account; how will they be charg
ed to her account if there is to be no settlement of the accounts,
and the member from that state <ays he is persuaded there is to be
none ? She will then receive the benefit of those fccuritics,.and the
citizens of the other states will pay her the intcreft on them ; if
they are fold to speculators, at all events Hie or her citizens have
received a consideration for them : But either that state will be
able to deteftthe fraud, or she will not; if (he can discover the
f'iud, so can Congress; they wi*' therelorebe rejected, and there
is no ground of appre'henfion ; it ».he fraud is not liable to dete&i
---o i, their at any rate North-Carolina must pav them; ii*afmuth
therefore as it is for her interest that they should be paid by Con
gress rather than by hcrfelf, this circumstance is rather an argu
ment in Sgvor oi the ail-umption*
THE TABLET
V Not for him felf he fees, or Hear/,
" Artists mud chirfc mufjc, meats."
THE taste of the world is regulated by very
few persons. This may seem the more
strange, as few people approve ot the fafhions
they are compelled to follow. It is not easy to
account for it, that in a land of freedom where
men are leftj in most refpetfts, to pursue what
their inclination didlates, to many persons thould
lead a life totally the reverse ot what they with.
Amanfeems, as it were, to give up his natural in
dependence of temper, the mojnent he begins to
live in falhion. Henever can consult hiscoveni
ence, and not often the particular call ot his fan
cy, in the choice of his food or apparel. The pri
vilege of chofing for one's felf is surrendered by
every one, who would be supposed tathionable.
A man of finilhed taste mult feldoin eat what he
likes, or wear what is convenient for him. As no
great harm results from this kind of felf denial,
in a general way, it is not my intention to com
plain of it. There is however some regard to be
paid to reason and nature, in the regulation of
our diets. Though taste cannot be managed by
any rules which admit of demonstration, there is
nevertheless, in some things, a natural propriety
which ought not to be overlooked.
Forinltance, drefslhould be accommodated to
the season and climate. The laws offafhion can
never control the conllitution of our bodies in
such a manner, that the people of a cold climate
can,without real impropriety,borrow their modes
of drels, from the inhabitants of a warmer one.
French falhions may be, in themselves, superior
to thole of any other nation, but they illy apply
to the lituation of the Northern parts of the Uni
ted Srates. The furrs of Rnffia are much better
adapted to our winters, than the silks of France.
It is not a matter of consequence in point of ex
pence, what country we imitate in our dress, be
cause it we are industrious, we can afford to wear
what we please. But when we conliderhow the
health is affected, it becomes an affair of serious
moment, to whom we look for direction in form
ing our taste. It would discover more reul good
sense to form our own—but as this would be trou
blesome, I do not expect we shall ever be so inde
pendent. Foreigners remark that the ladies of
.America lol'e their bloom, and impair their viva
city at a very early period of life. I am of the
opinion that the irregularity of our climate is the
principal cause of this unfortunare fad:. Perhaps
this is a misfortune againll whi h there is no per
fect remedy. The effctfts of it, however, may be
partly counteracted, and our women may preserve
their health and vivacity much longer than they
do. There isnodoubt, thata warmerdrefs in the
Winter,than is usually worn by our females, would
meliorate their Conllitution, and contribute to
their happineis. These few hjnts, I hope will be
enlarged upon, by fomeperlbn of leisure and re
flection.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF Tift UNITED STATES.
MR. FEX.N'O,
A PARAGRAPH under the New-York head,
published in your Gazette of this day, has
these words, " In this age of refinement, when
even tyrants are taught moderation, and Haves
their rights, I am surprised that the attempt to
repeal the British (religious) Tell Laws, has not
fucceedcd." In the next sentence, it is said that
Mr. Pitt, and by an inference the British Legisla
ture, treats the claim of.an equality of rights as
an extravagant delusion of the mind." And then
the question is alked, "Is there a village in A
merica, where this dodtrine of Mr. Pitt's would
be approved !"
Was the writerto learn thatthereare not only
villages in America where this dodtrine of Mr.
Pitt's would be approved—but that it is a funda
mental principle in the government of Six of the
Twelve United States. I allude to those States
which have clauses in their. Constitutions to the
following effect—That no per/onjhall be eligible to a
feat in the Lcgijlaturc,utile ft he be of the P* oTes ta nt
Religion. Ido not by this remark intend to sup
port the decision of the British parliament, I la
ment it, and hope it may be soon reversed—nor
do I add that a circumstance Jike this is a reproach
upon the 18th century, as your paragraphia has
aflert«d—l know that we approach pei fedion but
by flow degrees.
From the firft settlement of this Continent toler
ation dawned upon the brightened upon
it as the United States withdrew from under the
ihadowof Britain—and theConftitution recently
established marks the meridian splendor of that
luminary. I trust its benign influence will chafe
away the few clouds of prejudice which still reft
upon us—May we, by our example, induce the
world to refpedtrhe equal rights of men and citi
zens—and not declaim against what we daily
practice. VERDO SAT.
442-
No. CXI.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OK REPRESENTAi IVES.
FRIDAY, APRIL 30.
SEVERAL petitions and' memorials tfcre read.
The engrofled bill for the encouragement of
learning by liecuring the copies of maps, charts,
and other writings, to the authors and proprie
tors of such copies during the time therein iiiwii
tioned, palled the house. - - --
On motion, a committee, confiding of .Mr.
Boudinot. Mr. Scott and Mr.Seney, was appoint
ed to bring in a bill to alter one of the places for '
holding thediltridt court in Pennsylvania.
Thebilltoauthorife the Hitting certijicar.es to a
certain defcriprion of officers, was read a fj.-ij.
time
A mellage from the President of the United
Scares, informing the house thac die bill to regu
late the military eltablifhment of the United
Staces has received his aflenc.
Mr. Gerry, Mr. Burke and Mr. White were ap.
pointed a commiccee Co reporc a catalogue ofbooks
for the use of the house.
The house chen resolved icfelf into a committee
of the whole, for prefcribiitg the mode lit which
the a(st, records and judicial proceedings of the
feveraj states fliall beauthenticated, so us to take
effecfc in any other itate.—The bill being gone
through with, the committee role, and thehoud
agreed to chefame, and ordered ic to be engros
sed for achird reading.
The bill making compenfacionto John Ely, was
agreed to, and ordered to be engrofled for at bird
reading.
Mr. Gerry, from the committee appointed for
the purpose, brought in a bill for the adjusting
and finally fettling the accounts of the Baron do
Steuben, which was read thefird time.
A committee of five members was appointed to
conlider of, and report the period frjni which
the President, Vice-Prefidenr, Senators and mem
bers of the House of Representatives arc to date
the commencement ofthe time for which, by the
constitution, they are eletfted to ferv-e, and
to report upon such other matters as may relate
to said bulinefs.
IN SENATE.—FIUDAY APRIL 30,
The Senate proceeded, agreeably to the order
of the day, to consider the motion made yesterday,
viz. That the doors of rhe Senate Chamber (hall
be open when the Senate is fitting in their le
gislative capacity—to the end that such of the ci
tizens of the United States as may chufe to hear
the debates of this lioufe, may have an opportu
nity of so doing and the question being taken
it pafledin the negative
MAY 3. . ;
The bill to .prescribe the niode, }n which the
public a<fts, records, and judicial proceedings<jf
each State fhajl be authenticated, so as to take
efFe<ft in everyot Jjer State—and ,
The bill to allow compensation to Col, Jyftp
Ely. for his attendance as and
to the American prisoners on Lojig-Ifland, Wlffe
read the third time and pafled the house.
The bill to authorise ifl'uing certificates '
certain description of invalid officers was read the
I'econdtime, and ordered to be eugrofled. , ;
The bill for adjusting and fatisfyingthe claims
of the Baron de Steuben, was read the fecondtiiwp
and referred to a committee of the whole to-mor
row.
Mr. Fitzfiinons reported a bill for the
tion and government of the seamen in the Mer
chants fei vice—which was read a firft and fecoiyt
time
Mr. Lee presented a petition from the inhabi
tants of Alexandria, refpedting certain clauses ill
the tonnage aifl—l-ead and referred to the com
mittee on the report of the Secretary of the Trea
sury, relative to the defects in the revenue laws.
On motion oi Mr. Goodhue, the report of the
committee on the petition of the inhabitants of
1 ortlniouth, (N. H.) refperting an enhanced du
ty on foreign tonnage, was read—This report
proposes that an additional duty of one dollar
per ton be laid on foreign bottoms, and 10 per
cent additional inipoft on goods imported from
ports in which American veilels arc not permit
ted to enter. 1 his was referred to a committee
of the Whole ho life ou Friday next.
On motion of Mr. Smith, (S. C.) it was voted,
that the accounts of the Treasurer of the United
States ihould be printed, and annexed to the
Journals of the lioufe.
Mr. Gerry fuggeftecl the propriety of reading
thole reports on petitions, from the heads of de
pal tments, which negative the prayers of such pc.
titions, as well as those in favor of granting theni
—as, he observed, the contrary practice is in facft
c e egnting a very extraordiary power to execu
tive officers—After some debate Mr. Gerry f'ub
mitted the following proportion in substance—
i hat the reports on memorials and petitions
not determined upon in one feflion may be called
up in a subsequent felfion.
On motion of Mr. Smith, (S. C.) that part ofthe President's speech which refpeifts the en
couragement of lcieace and literature was read
He then moved that it should be referred to a ie
lecft committee.
Mr. Stone enquired what part of the Constitu
tion authorised Congress to take any steps in a
business of this kind—for his part he knew of
none. We have already done as much as we can
with propriety—We have encouraged learning,
by giving to authors an exclusive privilege of
vending their works—this is going as far as we
"have power to, by the Conllitution.
Mr. Sherman laid that a proposition to veil
Conerefs with power to establish a National Uni
versity was made in the General Convention but
it was negatived—lt was thought fufficient that
this power should be exercised by the States in
their separate capacicy.
Mr. Page observed, that he was in favor of the
motion. He wi(hed to have the matter deter
mined whether Congress has or has not a risrht
to do any thing for the promotion of science alid
literature—He rather fuppoffed they had luch a
right-but if on inveltigation of the fnbjecft, it
fliall appear they have not, I ftould consider the
circumstance said he, as a very ellbmial defed:
in the Conlhtution—and (hould be for propofine
an amendment-for on the diffufion of know
ledge and literature depend the liberties of this
country and theprefervation of the Conllitution.
I lie House adjourned without a decision on this
motion.
TUESDAY, MAY 4,
A meflage was received from the Senate in
forming the house that they have pailbd a bill for
extending the judicial law of the United States to
the State of North Carolina—alio, that they have
concurred in the vote of the house for the ap
pointment of Committees to consider if any, and
what further rules are neceflary to be adopted in
conducting business between the two houses—also
tO / et{ ™ luc che period at which the appointment
of President, Vice-President, Senator, and Re.
piefentatives of the United States commenced
agreeable to the Conffitution.
The bill to authorise illuing Certificates to a
ceitaindeicnptionof Invalid officers was read the
third time and pafled.
A memorial of Moore, of North Carolina
proprietor of Weft-Point was read, referino- to u
leiolution of thelate Congress for pin chafino-the
property, and praying the prefbnt Congress to
confirm said resolution
In committee of the whole on the hill for ad
julhiig and fatisfying the claims of the Baron
Je bteuben.
Mr. Stone moved that the report of the Secre
•tary of the Trealury on the Baron's memorial
ihould be read-the clerk read the lame. The
committee proceeded in the difcuifioti of the bill.
The clause which proposes an annuity for life
was objected to. Several amendments were pro
poled and 101 l ; a lengthy debate was lupportcd
011 other propositions, but a motion for the com-
Jiuttee s riling prevented a clecifioii.
A meilage was received from the Senate, with
the Ull providng for the government south of the
Olno—the amendments of the house to this bill
were jiot agreed to Adjourned
FROM THE PENNSYLVANIA GAZETTE
ro the Honorable the MEMBERS of the
LATURE ot Pennsylvania,
following NOTES, on the fubjdi of that Govt,
, """'Wi-ilth, arc mojt rtff e(lfully infer,bid, by
r A Citizen ok Pennsylvania.
NJ the prefetit state of the.affairs of the United
States the triie condition of the country is an
. J of , molt uses "» knowledge to the body of
e people of Europe. To give them some jufl
eas of that pare of it, whose affairs are com-
Utted to your charge, is the delign of this pub
cation As you arc annually felec r ted, by the
fee and equal choice of your conltituents, from
k n.afs of the cmzens, on account of your
powledge of their local interests and general
glits, and as you are required, by our conltitu
to be '"habitants of the city or county
M« you reflectively represent, it will appear
to an European reader,that nogrofs de
puon or material uufreprefentation is defiened-
Imposed upon then., in a publication made mi
ll joui eyes, and which the writer has veil
ed to ad die fs to you. That you may be able
f mo.e perfectly to judge of the truth of the
s, anc the justness of the observations, they
H be confined to Pennsylvania. i
i ' liE STATE of PENNSYLVANIA
! 0l)l0n g, of ij6 miles wide from north to
|t*i, dv about 190 miles in length from eaff to
• On the eall of it lies the Delaware river,
F, n g 'r fro 1 11 Well Jersey and New-York ;
F«ie north New-York, and a territory of about
|i 'on and a halt of acres 0.1 lake Erie, which
f l ' ania P'irchafed of Congress ; 011 the
• !n L ' ' iCS ' l^e 011 which it has a con
-111 <•'wont and a good port ; 011 the welfare
Few lauds of Congress, called th, wtjterr, ter
r,' aiH * il part oi Virginia ; on the (ouch lies
P art Virginia, Maryland, and the
State of Delaware. The contents of Pennfyl
a^ C , about 2 9> 00 °,°00 acres, but,
including the lake Erie territory, it exceeds
? IiCS , be r ee " deg y 'and 43 min!
and 42 deg. of north lat. The bay and river of
Ddaware are navigable from the Cea up to the
great falls at Trenton, and have a light-house
buoys and piers, for the direction and fafety of
Ihips. On this river are thjsfmall towns of Ches
ter and Briltol, and the !city of Philadelphia
hC Ca , Pkal r° f CheState ' andthe largest
and nioft populous sea-port and manufacturing
town m the United States. The distance of rliif
!?h w T r ls aboUC 6onllles across the land
the New.Jersey coast, alnd 120 miles by the
Aip channel of the Delawaff,
PITTSBURGH, April i 7.
„ •y. t . he 9ttinftant, fix persons having
crofled the Ohio river, about five miles on this fide
Hollyday s Cove, to the Indian fide, as it is com
monly called, where they were attacked by a par
ty of Indians, and five of them were made pri
loners, the other got as %• as the river and at
tempted to cross, but was pursued by the Indians
who fired at him several times, and it is supposed
killed hi in, as he has not since been heard of.
1 his account may be relied on as authentic,as we
lave it from a gentleman immediately from the
We are lorry to remark, fays a correspondent,
hat the accounts from Kentucky, and thp dan
ger in going down the river, are very alarinW •
t appears evident that the Indians are determin
' on "oftihties, and though they are not seen in
arge bodies, yet the great number offmall par
ies, winch keep continually watching the river
>ank, and cutting off the frontier inhabitants,
)ears an afpeJl which is by no means favorable,
>ut leems rather to threaten the people of Ken
ucky with a very troublesome summer.
It may be well enough to inform those who are
iot well acquainted with this country, and who
nay wiih to remove thereto, that we are perfect -
yfecure from any depredations oftlie Indians,
xtratfi of a letter from a gentleman in Ken
tucky, to his friend in this town dated Febru
aiT r 9> 1 790.
"On the ftrit of December last, the Indian
Y ;l William Brown and Mr. Allifon, 01
heir way from the Miami to Lexington, and or
he third they, fired on a boat, about twelve mile:
i iuu Limeltone, and wounded two men and on<
woman, one man and the woman died at Lime
.one of their wounds ; a few days after this the)
Killed two men on Licking river, and took a
prisoner, and 011 their return from doing thii
nufchief, they attacked a boat below the Scioto
I» It as it had been landed, and killed four men
and took one man and two women prisoners, anc
about four weeks ago, they fired on a boat ant
1 cai,oe al) ove the Scioto, from both fides the ri
ver, and wounded two men in the canoe; 011 the
1 7th inltant, they killed a boy and wounded 1
man fix miles from the Upper Blue Licks. Thi>
information you may depend upon as fatft, and 1
" 1111 it made public, that people coming dowi:
the river may be aware of the danger, and be
prepared accordingly."
PHILADELPHIA, May 3 .
M e aie informed that a Tragedy is getting
up at the Theatre in this city called the Widou
of Malabar, written by a citizen of the Uni
ted States, not more remarkable for his poeti
c.il talents, than liberality of fentiinent; both ol
which are eminently displayed in this elegahi
production, tending to inculcate the noblelt ol
all sentiments, humanity.
ExtiH ofa letter from London, March 2a.
"Robert Sr. Efticmie is .'Men prcfident ol the N'ational AC
femb v; lie succeeded I.'Abbe Monte f,]ieu, one of the ablest m n
Y ||JV <;' Hc ls a protelkant minilter and e monied man, which
aie two lingular circumftanccs in France. He rhanked them tor
the honor, as it was giving the pledge of the principles the Af
lembl) let out upon—but thetimes were overcoming prejudices
rhey wi ite they hope to finilh the eonftitutmn soon. Thei-th
ol July, the aomverfary of (forming the baltib, they are to have a
thanksgiving and proccflion,
" Ihe church lands will, it is supposed, be soon arranged and
oine practic.ll mcalures adopted. Jnftead of 240 millions, the
llatcrelrrvesf r them 8o millions. Two millions livres a War
to be laved by the plan of the army. Taxes are becoming more
cltrcient—Hid a few months will enable them to Bern their gi eat
elt emlurraffmtnts. Ncckar wilhed a council of finance, but the
rccjueft was not granted."
While other nations are at aniinmenfe expence
to cut canals, the numerous rivers of the United
States, penetrating an extraordinary length into
the bosom ofthis extensive continent, are joined
by navigable, though inferior streams, that faci
litate commerce and manufactures, and fertilize
the country in their course. It is remarkable
that 110 river in all the k iugdoms of Europe is na
vigable, by ffaips from the lea, to more than half
the length of theHudfon or the Delaware or a
third of that of the Potowmac.
NEW HAVEN, April 28.
On Tliurfday laftthe Circuit Court for tlie dif
rritft of Connecticut, was opened in this place by
the Hon. John Jay, Chief Jullice of the United
States, the Hon. William Cufhing, Aflociate Judn-e
and the Hon. Richard Law, Diltridt Judge. °
The i'eiTions continued until Saturday, during
which several civil caules were heard, and sundry
-443-
(To be contmued.)
rules and regulations adopted for futitfe proceed
nigs.
The good sense and candor of the Judges has
left an .inpreifion on the minds of tiie ,?eople
lavoiable to this New Inititution.
NEW-YORK, WEDNESDAY, MAY y
Extracts of fuadry LETTERS.
APRIL 22.
Dnhlir" "°r 'r t^ e I' ow 1 er of ' Con g'-ef S to eilablifh
public ciedit fully and complearly_ r |,e General
opinion and wish of the people a?e iiroi,S in £-
| vor of it—and very juftly—for they feellhe ac
cumulation of burthens to originate in a want of
confidence 111 the public engagements—lf r he pre
jenc favorable moment therefore Ihould be ne--
? iV W u° c be / nfwera ble for the confequen
«V- , Vi V h ® R 1 c .P refen wtives of the people think
as highly of this matter as many of their conlli
tuents, they will never lose fight of the object one
moment, till it is accomplices!—the people in this
quarter wait this event with anxious hopes, and
a countenance of folicitudfrreftniblins; the peril
pus days of doubtful war—PubMc credit has becirti
to decline,and private embarrarfments to en ere afe
of "ft'.' ,: "" s h,s " nn s a fl: "=
In the firfir of this feifion of the national legi
flatore after the Present's speech and the Se
cretary s report werepublifhed, founiverfal were
the expectations of the people that public credit
would be lnnnmediately eltablifhed, that there
was Perhaps the most visible and general chance
for the better ever experienced in any countiy—
the public fecunties rose rapidly—land er'eatlv
appreciated—(hiore farms were bought and fold
in two months, than in five years preceding) all
kinds of property seemed to increase in value
money circulated more than it had for manv
£ a "V rOl \ rep ° ritories ' Nvhofe hinges had
not ci eaked for a long period, were emptied of
the.r contents to- the great advantage of trade
which evidently appeared to revive, and give
11 duftry new vigor-the whole country wore a
pleanng and animated countenance. If these
things were the effect of anticipation only—whan
may not the reality of Public Credit be ?
Extraß of a letter from Boflon, April 2 c
Ye'terday the officers of the cultoms attached
1 S ft ' P the Ne P tun e, for running
goods that were not entered, and other breaches
Jf the revenue laws. It is laid more than 10000
dollars duties had been paid on her cargo.
. Unlefi public credit is firmly cltablifhed
the revenue will of coujtfe, many
of our expected BTcffings v'anilli like a dream.
We still hope fonie medium may be thought of
—foine accommodation-that fo.ne tnlivlning
lay may illumine oar political horizon
Should the Excise law of this Commonwealth
be carried into full execution, it will do more in
jurjr to the Revenue of the United Starts than is
atprefent conceived of.
Extract of a letter from Cambridge, MaffachufiUs.
You will fee by the papers that our old goaler
Brapjsh, has taken himfelf off in a fumma™
way—The mode was a little Angular—and tho
not quite original, was very effertual—he fixed
the muzzle of a fowlu.g piece in his mouth, and
with a yard wand pulhed. off the trigger, like aa
old fool. He was 70 years of age—and Death
distant ternfic form could noc have been very
GARDENING,
_ From an Englijh Paper.
Owing to the extraordinary mildness of the
winter the gardens and other lands fnrprifmgly
abound with the kind ofgrubs which in the sum-
Src t0 th u infe<fts ca »ed cock-chaf
fers. 1 hefe grubs are exceedingly voracious de
vouring all forts of grain and puVe, both before
they have germinated, and when in leaf-thev
are equally definitive in the kitchen gardenT
entirely eating thro the items of young planf
clofe to the earth, pease, cabbages
brocoh, cauliflowers, borecole, lettuces, endfve'
&c. In fliort, there is scarcely any vegetable in
fajnily use except: onions, leeks, garlic and /bal
lots, that they will not greedily devour. The
belt way to preferveplants from tliefe deftrutfive
animals, is to firew saw- dull, the coarser the bet!
ter about their Items, the asperities thereof be
ing so ofFenfive to them that they cannot creep
over it Toftrew saw-dust along the drills of
pease soon after they have broke ground, Co as
fliglnly to cover them, is an effectual method to
preserve them from slugs and grubs, andal/o from
being injured by cold or wet.
MARRIED]—On Saturday evening last by the
Rev. Di. Linn, the Hon. Joshua Seney, of Ma
ryland to Miss Fanny Nicholson, daughter
of James Nicholfon, Esq. of this city
Broa 1 ? W~ Y r Morn ' n g, at his house in
Broad-Way, John Foxcroft, Esq. Agent to his
Britannic Majesty's Packets.
Moses Rogers, and Co.
RAVE .-emo'ed .heir STORE to the New Building, corner
V- y 1 M Qiiecn-Street, frdnting Burling Slip
A izu- York, Max 5. 1790. 99ISCOURSES ON DAVILJ.
Augufte veritfc !
C'cfta toi, de montrer aux yeux des nations
Les coapablcs effcts lcurs divisions.
WHEN one family is deprefled, either in a
Monarchy, or in any species of republic,
another ni uft arise. While, in the reign of Fr an-
Cis Ift. they thus humbled the branch of the Boui
llons ; there arose two other powerful families,
who soon obtained the administration of affairs :
The house of Montmorency, and that ot Guise ;
bolh, indeed inferior to the Blood Royal ; but
both illultrious by the l'plendor ot the most an
cient nobility. That of Montmorency produces
Titles, which prove its descent, by an uninter
rupted fuccefiion, from one of the principal Gran
dees who accompanied Pharamovd in his firft
expedition. It has the glory of having been the |
lirft French house which received baptism and the
Christian Faith. The memory of this diftinttion
is preserved in the motto of their arms, Cod help
the firJl Chrijiian Baron ; a splendid testimony both
of the antiquity and religion of their ancestors.
Anne of Montmorency, who united a vast genius,
directed by prudence, to a grave and imposing de
portment —who combined a lingular address to a
patience never to be exliaufted in the intrigues
and affairs of the Court, which change so often
their afpeift, sprung from this stock. His high
qualities merited the confidence of Francis lit.
After having palled thro all the military grada
tions of the State, he was at firft elevated to the
dignity of Grand Master of the King's house hold,
and after the death of the Duke of Bourbon, to
that of Conjlable— in one word he concentered
in his person, the command of armies, and the
principal administration of all the affairs, civil
and political, of the kingdom.
The house of Lorrain, of which that ot Guise
is a branch, derives it ofriginal, from the highest
antiquity. It reckons among its paternal ancef
tors, Godfrey of Bouillon, the famous leader
of the Crusades, who by his valour and piety
conquered the kingdom of Jerusalem ; and by the
female line it traces its descent from a daughter
of Charlemain. Anthony, ot Lorrain, chief of
this rich and powerful family, reigned over his
people, with an absolute authority ; Claud, his
lounger brother, went into France to take pof
fellion of the Dutchy ot Guise, and there recom
mended himfelf by his valour.—After the battle
of Marignan, where he commanded the Ger
man troops, he was taken out from an heap of
dead bodies covered over with blood and wounds;
his cure was thought to be a miracle, and he held
afterwards the firft rank among the greatest cap
tains of France. The houses of Guise and Mont
morency, had rendered services of such impor
tance to the State that it was difficult to deter
mine, which of the two merited the pre-emi
nence In the splendor of their birth and the
extent of their domains, the Guises had the ad
vantage. In the favor of the King, the family
of the Constable was most advanced, and saw lt
felf at the head of affairs. Nature which has es
tablished in the univeile a chain of being, and
universal order, defending from Arch Angels to
microscopic animalcules, has ordained that no
two obiects shall be perfectly alike and no two
creatures perfectly equal. Although among men,
all are fubjec r t by nature to equal la-ws ot morality,
and in society have a right to equal ktwsfyr their
government, yet no two men are perfectly equa
hi oerfon, property, understanding, activity and
virtue—or ever can be made so by any power
less than that which created them ; and when
ever it becomes disputable between two individu
als or families which is the superior, a ferment
ation commences, which disturbs the order of all
things until it is fettled and each one knows his
place in the opinion of the public The quef
tln-i of superiority between the Guises audMont
morencys had theulual effects of such doubts. But
as nothing is less liable than the for tune of cour
tiers, in ill-ordered governments they both expe
rienced reverses, towards the end of the reign ot
Francis the Ift. That jealoufy,which never has
an end because it is always well founded, which
reiens in every government, where every pafhon
and every interest has not its correspondent
counterpoise, actuated the King. The two mi.i
ifters not being fubjeft to any regular plan of
responsibility, were become dangerous rivals of
their master ; their enemies knew how to infin
ite suspicions. The Constable fell into disgrace
for having perfuadecl the King to trust the pro
mi fes of Chari.es the Vtli. and to grant him a
free paflage through France, as he went tochaf
tife the rebellion of Ghent. The Emperor not
kceuinshis engagements, the King and the court
accnfedthe Constable of having failed, either in
prudence or fidelity He vyas obliged to leave
the court and return to private life, to conceal
himfelf fvom the purluits of his enemies. _ The
Duke of Guise was also constrained to quit the
court and give way to the storm, for having in
curred the displeasure of the King, by caufmg
be raised upon the frontiers without his con
tent certain troops, which he sent to the Duke
of Lorrain, his brother at that time ?X war with
the Anahaptifts.
The Conltable, and tne uu« """'V. S |
disgraced, were replaced by two ministers of con
summate experience, indefatigable uiduftry an
acknowledged abilities ; the Admiral D Anne
baut and the Cardinal de Tournon. The me
diocrity of their fortune and extraction, excited
little apprehension, that they would ever arrive,
at that high power, of which the King had rea
son to be jealous, and which he dreaded in the
hands of his fubjetts. This Prince, who under
flood mankind, and was become unquiet and lul
picious since his disgraces, had long resolved to
dismiss from his person, the Conltable and the ]
Duke, notwithstanding the long confidence with
which he had honored them ; believing that he
fliould not be able to govern, according to his
| own mind, while he Ihould have about him two
persons, whose credit and reputation were capa
ble of balancing his will. He dreaded in the
Constable that profound experience and that
lively penetration, from which he could not con
ceal his mod hidden secrets. Every thing was to
him suspicious in the Guises. Their llluftrious
birth, their restless humour, their active genius,
that ardent character to embrace every occahon
to aggrandize themselves, and that ambition ca
pable of forming projedts the n\olt vast and dat
ing. As the judicial courts had no independence,
and there was no regular judicature for impeach
ments, there could be no rational responsibility.
The King could inflict none but arbitrary pun
ifliments ; there was 110 tribunal, but the States
general and their committees, and among thele
the ministers had as many friends as the King.
The ministers therefore thought themselves, and
as the constitution then stood they really were,
so nearly equal to the King in power, that they
might do as they pleased with impunity. 1 hey
presumed too far, and the King was jullly offend
ed : but had 110 remedy, but in the aflailination
or difuiiifitiii of his ministers—he chole the latter ;
though in the sequel we (hall fee many instances
ill flniilar cases, of the former ; in the last years
of his life this monarch, if we may call by that
name a Prince who|was in effect,nothing more than
the fir ft individual in a miserable oligarchy, se
cretly recommended to Prince Henry his son, to
tliftrnft the exceflive power of his fubjecfts, and
especially of the house of Guise, whose elevation
would infallibly disturb the repose of the king
dom. Francis now saw and felt, thatthe house
of Guise was become, as the house of Bourbon
had been before, a dangerous rival of the house
of Valois.
Ambition, disappointed and disgraced by a King,
commonly becomes obsequious to the heir appa
rent, or ostensible facceflqr. In 1547, Henry the
second, the successor of Francis the fiift, disre
garding the advice and example of his father,
difmiiled from his court and service, the Admi
ral and Cardinal, though possessed of the secrets
of the state ; and placed again at the head of af
fairs, the Constable Anne of Montmorency, and
Francis of Lorrain, son of Claud Duke of Guise,
who soon engaged the confidence of the yoGng
King, and regulated every thing at his court.
Their authority was equal: But, as has been once
observed, nature has decreed, that aperfett equa
lity Jhctli uever long exijl between any two mortals.
TWe views, the conduit and the cliara>fiers of
the two iniiiTfters, were unlike in all things.
The Constable advanced in years, was naturally
fond of peace : Formed by a long experience in
th<* art of government, h6 enjoyed an high repu
tation for wisdom, and held the firft place in the
condu<fl of affairs of state. The Duke, in the
flower of his age, captivated by an elevated ge -
nius and sprightly wit, united with arobuftcon
ftitution and a noble figure, the affe&ions of the
King. Henry treated him, almost as his equal;
admitted him to his converfatioiis, his pleasures,
and tliofe exercises of the body which were sui
table to his age and inclination. His affedtion for
the Constable, was rather veneration : His attach
ment to the Duke was familiarity. The conduift
of the two favourites was very different; the one
an enemy of all show, urged with a certain seve
rity, from which age is seldom exempted, tliene
ceflity of economy. He even opposed the profu
fion of the Prince. His austere virtue infpireda
contempt for foreigners, and rendered him lit
tle f'olicitous for the affetflion of the French. The
Duke of Guise affable and popular, gained by his
liberalities and politeness, the hearts of the peo
ple and the soldiers. With a generous warmth,
he protected the unfortunate, and conciliated the
esteem of strangers.
Inclinations and condutS: so opposite, soon pro
duced jealousies, between the two ministers, e
qually beloved of the King. To insinuate them
selves further into the royal graces, and make
themselves matters ofhis favors, they exerted all
their skill, address and efforts. Their emulation
and ambition were stimulated by their nearest re
lations, and private friends. The Constable was
irritated by his NephewGafpard de Coligni, Lord
of Cliatillon, who had succeeded to the Admi
ral D* Annebaut, and who was not less distin
guished for his policy, than eminent for valor.
The Duke of Guise was animated, by the Cardi
nal Charles of Lorrain, his brother, who united
444
the splendor of tlie Roman purple, to a r.ablt
figure, profound erudition and uncommon elo
quence. . . ,
Hence forward the daemon of rivalry, haunted
the twohoufes of Guile and Montmorency : and
fortune did not fail to open a valt caieer, to the
animated emulation of the two competitors.
LONDON, March 15
Wednesday morning early a Courier arrived with the officiaf
account of the death ot the Emperor Joleph 11. wlnch.hipptntrt
at Vienna on the 20th ult. at five in the morning; hewasinUit
40th year of his age, in the 26th year of his reign as Emperor of
the Romans, and the 10th as King of Hungary and Bohemia. jj e
succeeded to the imperial crown on the demise of his father, Fran,
cis, on the 18th of Augufl, 1765; to the hereditary dominions
of the home of Austria on the death of his mother, Maria Thereii,
the 29th of November, 1780. He was twice married, to a Prin
cess of Parma, and a Princess of Bavaria; but having left no iffut,
the hereditary dominions of the House of Austria devohrn on his
brother Peter Leopold JoCeph, Grand Duke oi 1 ufcany.
The National AiTembly, among their other retrenchments, ht tc
cut off 20001. per annum from the salary of their Ambaflador,
in this metropolis; anil that at a time in which, from the mulu
tude of his countrymen that are his constant visitors, he cancer,
tainly ill fuppoit the want of the sum.
MR. HOWARD'I DEATH.
What the friends of humanity, and the ad
mirers of unexampled benevolence have often
and anxiously predicted, has at last occurred
the amiable and virtuous Howard has fallen a
vidtim to his persevering and unrivalled philan
tliropy. The excellent man paid the debt of
nature on the 20th of January, at Clierfon, after
an illness of twelve days.—His disorder wasavio
lent fever caught at the hospital at that place,
where he had been adminiltering medicine to
many poor wretches who languilhed under tk
fame malady.
Thus fell a man who was not only an ornament
to his country but to human nature. 1 lie name
of Howard has long been held high in the annals
of England ; but the philanthropic Howard, has
extended the fame of the Britilh virtue overall
the globe ; and the dreariest nbodes of misery
and disease have echoed with the praises of him,
whose greatelt delight was, " in going about to
DO GOOD."
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE is heieby given to all the creditors of Pmiif
Den MAN, now confined in the common gaol of Newuk,
in the county of EfTex, That the Honorable Court of ComiDM
Picas, in and for said county, have appointed Tucfday the spb
day of May next, for the creditors ot said PhilijrDernntn, tomrct
at the Court house in Newark, at nine o'clock oflhcdiy
and lhewcaufeto the judge of the iaid Court if any |hcy htve,
wliy an aflignment of the said insolvent debtors estate (hoiildn*
be made, and he difchargcd according to the a£l of the Legilt
lure of New-lerlev in such cafe made »nd provided.
PHILIP DENMAN.
Newark, At'ril 14, 1790.
For CERTIFICATES, Or exchanged for LAND,
TWENTY -Two acres of ground in the £ily of New-York
fronting Great George-Street, Bowry-Lane, and Greenwich
Lane. On the premises is a brick dwelling house containingter
rooms; a fmallcr brick house with four rooms; a house with 1
brick front with two rooms : In each house is a Kitchen, and un
der the whole four cellars; a never failing fprine is near one 0
the kitchens; a frame flable and a coach-house with rtablfl
From the dwelling house both the North and the East riveisar
plain to the view. Additional improvements have been mad
this Spring, the ground has been laid out fpr pleasure as wc:!a
for utility ; it is provided with variety of orchard and other truu
part of the land has also been sown with timothy and clover
To be fold for certificates of the national debt, which will Q- r <j
ceived at the nominal value. Dollars at Bs. Or for good Jjn
even il covered with wood, provided it is situated on the ' ol '
ingrivcrs, or on creeks as far as navigable, communicating wit 1
fame, viz. At the Potowinac above Alexandria,at James R' vcr 3
bove Richmond, in South-Carolina, about one hundred miles rol '
the sea (hoic, on Santee Edifto or Ponpon river, or on Savanna
river. If not fold at piivate sale before the 15th of May, it wl
then 011 the above terms be difp<i{ed ot by Public Vendue at t ■
merchants Cotfee-Houfe.—»For further particulars enquire 0
Poellnitz on the premises. April 10,17s 0 '
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59, to No. 187, Water-Street, nearrt
Flv-Market,
WHERE they negotiate all kinds ofPUBLI
SECURITIES—BILLS OF EXCHANGE. See. asufual.
New-York, Aprils, 1790. *tf. _
William Taylor,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No, 4, Burling-Slip, „ (
Aflortment of EAST-INDIAGOC
Amonß which are the following Articles:
BOOK Mufliiis 8-4 6-4 5-4 || HUMHL'MS,
Jackonet do. j| Long Cloths,
Hankerchiefs,of various kinds,j| CafTas,
Chintzes, n Seerfuckei'%
Ginghams, | lioglapores.
A Variety of liandfome painted MUSLIN ■
With many other Articles, which will be fold by the P- cce
Package, low for calh.
John Smith & Peter Wendovei
SAIL-MAKERS,
BEG leave to inform their Friends and the Public in K c
that they have commenced bufmefs in copartnerflnp >»
line, under the Firm of SMITH and WENDOVER, ,n tl l Cf
Loft in Front Street, opposite Van Zaudt's Wharf (*» e311
see-House) formerly Occupicd by Car msr and Smith, » n
by John Smith. Those Gentlemen who will be pica e
vor them with their custom may depend upon having
done in the best manner, and on as fliort notice as can be exp
New-York, May 1,1790.
(13* Subfcribersfor the Gazette of the United- Stiitef ,
nijhed with the numbers complcte } jrm the commencement oj t(J
volatile.
To be SOLD,