[No. no,—Vol. If.]
To the EDITOR ofthe GAZETTEER
Please to insert the following extrail of a letter from
Paris, dated February 2sth, I 790. I pledge my
felf ta you that it is genuine, and that the writer is a
man of condition, and veracity.
AConstant Reader.
" HPHE National Aflembly have made fitch pro-
X grefs in the constitution, that I cannot im
mediately comply with the you make me,
to inform you of all that they have done.—l am
however, collecting those fundamental articles,
which may, with propriety, be termed constitu
tional. But, as these will form aparcel much too
large to fend by the post, I shall embrace the firft
private conveyance that offers to forward thein
to you. At present, I have the fatisfaclion to as.
sure you, that notwithstanding what so many E
ditors of English nevvfpapers funnile, or their cor
respondents affirm to the contrary, the revoluti
on moves on rapidly to completion, and in aright
line. Since my arrival, the Aflembly have been
much occupied in fixing what they have just now
finiffied, the territorial and other divisions ofthe
kingdom. The Municipalities, which are form
ed in every village ofit, are to be the basis ofthe
new order of things. These are comprehended
in the eighty three departments, which are the
wider diltributions of the country. These de
partments are divided into diftrkis, and these
fubdividedinto cantons. The number of repre
sentatives which each of these eighty three de
partments will be entitled to fend to the Nation
al Aflembly, is to be decided by the extent of their
forface, the degree of their population, and the
amount of their contributions. First, each depart
ment is allowed three members for its furface,
and then, its population and contribution bein<?
ascertained, a proportional number of represent
atives in a just ratio to both, is to be fuperadded.
According to these criterions, it has been ellima
ted that the whole number ofthe next National
Aflembly may amount to about icven hundred afld
twenty. All citoyens a!tifs throughout Fiance are
to enjoy the rights of voters. They are defcri
bedtobe—Frenchmen, or such as have become
Frenchmen, who have paid a tax equal to three
days labour, and resided one year in ihe canton
where their votes are given. These voters choose
a certain number of electors, who meet together
in each department, and chool'eits proportion of
members to the National Aflembly. Any citizen
is qualified to be a member who adds to the above
requilites of a voter—that of discharging a dired:
taxaf the value of a tuarc d' argent :—about fifty
four livres.
It is only a few days since the Military Com
mittee made their report ( which lias not yet ob
tained the form of a decree,) concerning the num
ber of which the army ought to confilt, and the
mode of its appointment. The present pay of
the troops it is said will be augmented. The
peace establishment will Hot excced one hundred
and forty thousand men. To these, in time of
war one hundred thousand are to be added. But
arrangements are likewise taking to eitablifh a
well organized militia, who, if they be but to
lerably trained in the use of arms, will probably
compose a body of men formidable indeed on any
emergency, especially for operations of internal
defence. And this for the plained of all poflible
reasons ; —becaufe, under the new constitution,
they will habitually consider thenifelves as the
free defenders of a country, in the government
and welfare of which they reallv and bona fide
participate.
It is not yet known precisely when this Nati
onal Aflembly will rife. Though it is said by
many, that their important work will be concluded
prior to the firft of May. Should this be the cafe,
I will then endeavour to procure for you an ac
curate copy ot the entire conftitiuion. Mean
while you may reft fatisfied, and may likewifeaf
fure our mutual friends in London, that the late
commotions in some of the provinces were foment
ed, and accounts ol what happened much mifre
prefcnted by the oppofers of the present reiorm.
Those tumults have now subsided into tranquilli
ty, and wife uieafures are purluing to prevent or
punifli all future difcurbers of the' public repose.
As to farig, I do allure you, I have seldom seen
it so gay, and never more quiet. In a word, as
have too high an opinion of your benevolence
not to believe that yon, and indeed every -rood
man, mull wiib well ro a cause, which has for its
objeOl h>e happiness ol'three and twenty millions
of people, lo it aftords me fincerc pleafr.rc to tell
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS RV 'IWI- rcu
-13 SAIUKDA\S B\ JOHN FENNO, No. & MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK
LONDON.
SATURDAY, MAY i, 1790.
you, that the French Ftsvolution proceeds better
than you could reasonably expert, and, I had al
molt laid, as well as you ought towifh : For ifli
bei ty be a gem of fuca vast value, that whatever
a community barters for it, still they are great
gainers if they get it, perhaps one ought not to
dehre to fee that which Is intrinsically ineftima
be obtained with facility, a U d at a price too
cheap.
In perusing several of those constitutional de
crees of the AHemhly, ch I shall firft forward,
1 think itmnft strike you with surprize, to remark
how many of them militate with the personal in
rerelts of a majority of the members. I niyfelf
know individuals ps that body, who have mani
feited a zeal for msafures, not only difmterefledly
patriotic, but absolutely repugnant to that fort
of felfifhnel's, Which in ordinary times, and in
common cases, clings most closely to human na
ture. In rheinftances to which I allude, fmifter
and fordid views <"-em to have become dormant
and extinc r tin an a dent pursuit of public prospe
rity ; and different orders of citizens, in their ca
reer for the palm of pre-eminent patriotism, for
getful of private interest and separate aims,
seem to have united in p efering the glory and
happiness of their country, not merely as an ob
ject, but as the sole objeß of their ambition.
Since I came hither, I had frequent opportu
nities to fee and converse with that truly great
young man the Marquis de la Fayette. I did
not think he could be lb popular as 1 find he is.
He is almost idolized by his countrymen. Nor is
this admiration of hint confined to persons of
mean condition. Dining the other day in a
large party, with the Count De E , the Count
began on a warm eulogiuni 'jn the courage, skill,
and virtue, with which, he said, from the com
mencement of the Revolution, the Marquis had
uniformly conducted, as well on common occa
sions as in situations the molt trying and critical.
I alked the Count if he knew how old the Mar
quis de la Fayette was ? V. ith that lively euthu
nafin so natural so the French, he replied,
" were we to calculate his years by his works'
it might beallc rted that he has lived centuries •
—bur, in fart, he is but three and thirty." A
rare instance of character, in which the bloom
ing vivacity of youth has been united to the ripe
wisdom of experience !
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UN/TED STATES.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in London,
to his friend in Ncw-Tork, dated March 20.
" YOU will not fail to remark, when you
peruse the Parliamentary debates of this na
tion, how much the arijlocracy dread the in
fluence of a luccefsful struggle for liberty in
France, or the people of Britain. There seems
to be a complete combination of the Nobility,
Gentry, Clergy, aiid Crown Officers, to decry,
ftifle,or calumniate every meafure,that has been
pursued by the National AlTembly in France.
Hence that bitter Phillippic pronounced by
Mr. Burke, in the debate, concerning the ar
my estimates, which 110 report has ltated in
terms acrid or angry enough todojufticeto the
sentiments he that day delivered, and which
extorted from his great political foe, Mr. Pitt,
such warm eulogium ; and has sim e been follow
ed by the unanimous approbation of all those
who are called the better fort of people. I listen
ed on that occasion with utter aftonilhment,
beingin the gallery of the Commons from the
beginning of the debate to the end of it—as
soon as 1 came to my lodgings I took a minute
from memory of the following paflage of his
Anti-Gallican eloquence."
(Part of Mr. BURKE's Speech.)
" * I "HE French have proved themselves the a-
A blest architects of ruin that ever existed
in the world. In one lununer they have done
their business for us, as rivals, in a way more def
tru&ive than twenty Ramillier, or Blenheims. In
this very fliort space of time they have complete
ly pulled down to the ground their monarchy
their church—their nobility—their laws their
revenue—their army—their navy—their com
merce—their arts—and their manufactures.
They are now lying in a fort of trance—an epi
leptic sit—exposed tothepity orderifion of man
kind, in wild misrule, and ridiculous convulsive
movements—impotent to every purpose but that
of dashing out their brains again it the pavement.
Yet they are so very nnwife as to glory in a revo
lution which is a lhame and disgrace to them.
437
PRICE THKEE DOLLARS. PH. ANN.
They have made their way to the veuy worlt con-
Ititution iu the world, by the dertructr&tfcof their
country. They were in pofi'effion of a good con,
ititution, on the very firlt clay when the States
met 111 separate orders. Had they been either vir
t,uou® ° r ,. wir P» their bulineft then was to iecure
the ltabiljty and independence of the -State ac
cording to those orders under the Monarch on
the throne and afterwards to redrels grievances.
Inftcad ot this, they fiill deltroyed all the balan
ces and counterpoises which serve to fix a State
and give it afteady direction, and then they melt
ed clown the whole into 0.,e incongruous mass ot"
mob and democracy. And when they had done
this with a perhdy moll unexampled and atrocious
they laid the axe to the root of all property, of
all national profpeiit/, by confifcatingthe poffef
lions ot the Church. They next proceeded fyf
teniatically to destroy every hold of authority
civil or religious, on the minds of the people by
making and recording a fort of Institute or di'.elt
of anarchy, called the rights of man, in such
dantic abuse of elementary principles, as would
disgrace the imbecility of school-boys. But the
worst effect of all their proceedings is on their
military—rendering them fit instruments of every
infamous purpose— without even the chance of
any check or controul. Not converting soldiers
into citizens, but into bafsj hireling mutineers
mercenary, fordid deserters, wholly deflitute of
any one honorable principle. Their conduct is
one of the fruits of that anarchic spirit, from the
evils of which even democracy itlclf is received
andcheriihedby those who are molt averse from
.thatform as a cure. This army is not an army
in corps, and with discipline, embodied under the
refpec r table patriot citizens of the State. Noth
ing like it. No, it is the cafe of common soldiers
deferring from their officers, to join the banditti
ot a furious and unbridled populace. It is ade
fertion to a cause, the real object of which is hof
t!llt/' 110l 10 " 0 ferv "ude,but to lociety—levelline all
those institutions—breaking all those connec
tions, natural and civil, that regulate and hold
together communities by one chain and fubordi.
nation—railing soldiers against their officers
servants againlt their masters-tradesmen aeainft
their cuftoniers—artificers against their employ,
ers—tenants against their landlords— curates a
gainst their bishops, and children against their
parents. How would you, Mr. Speaker, and how
would any of you gentlemen like to have your
inanfions pulled down and pillaged—your title
deeds brought out and burnt before your faces—
your persons abused, insulted and destroyed—
and families driven tofeek refuge in every cor
ner of Lurope—and all this without any fault of
yours or any other leafon than this—that you
were torn gentlemen and men of property—and
were fufpeded of a desire to preserve your es
tates and your consideration. Sir, this deser
tion of the French military was to aid the molt
execrable, the most detestable sedition, the ve
ry open profefled abominable principle of which
is an implacable hostility to nobility and gentry
Their lavage war whoop is " a /'Arittocrat"—
and by this senseless bloody cry they animate
one another to rapine and to murder— -while a
betted by ambitious men of another class they
are crufliingall that is virtuous or respectable in
the nation-apd to the utmost of their power,
dishonoring and disgracing every name by which
we formerly knew that there was such a country
m the world as France. In a former century we
were in danger from emulating, or wishing to
emulate their Iplendid despotism. But the op
posite peril now awaits us. Let us ffiudder at our
present danger of being influenced by a people
whose character knows no medium between des
potism and anarchy—no medium between the bie
otry of superstition, and the madness of Atheism.
—Atheism that foul unnatural vice, foe to ali
the dignity and consolation of man—which hav
ing for a long time been embodied into a faction
in rrance, is now accredited and almost avowed
by its votaries. Let us beware of being led thro
an illegitimate admiration of fuccefsful fraud
and outrageous violence to an imitation of the
excefles of an irrational, unprincipled, profcrib
mg, confifcating, plundering, ferocious, bloody
and tyrannical democracy."
MR. HOWARD.
TT is with regret we inform our readers, that
A the benevolent and philanthropic John Howard,
is no more. lie fell a victim to the warmth
ot his benevolence in the service of mankind. He
died at Cherfon on the 20th of January lalt, af
ter an illness of twelve days.
&tfsoCONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31.
The proportion for ajfuming the Jlate debts under consideration.
MR. Williamson, observed, that North-Ca
rolina must be confefledly a fufferer, un
less the accounts of the several ltates within the
union should be fettled. He had said it was his
firm belief that the final settlement of those ac
counts was intentionally delayed.- He also be
lieved that if the aflumption had once taken place,
a settlement would never be effe<fted. He was
not bound to answer so many questions. Why
"were commiflioners appointed ? Why were they
continued ? Why were they allowed clerks fuffi
cient, .with liberal salaries ? There was an ans
wer at hand. All this might be done tofave ap
pearances, until the aflumption was afFecfled—but
he rather fuppofedthatthefchemeof aflumption,
was new, and not coherent with former lyftems.
It questions might stand for arguments, he would
take the liberty, in his turn, of asking, Why are
not the commiflioners furnifhed with a rule for
determining the quotas of the several States ! It
is known that, without such rule, they cannot
possibly fettle the accounts. The neglect of this
provision, and some other concomitant circum
llances, Hand with him for a good cause to fuf
pe<ft that the accounts are to await the final fet
tlemeut. The member from New-York had ob
served that Congress, being in pofleflion of all
the funds, ought in justice to pay all the debts of
the individual States. This position, if well
founded, proves too much : it proves that Con
gress should pay the expence of the civil govern
ment of the States ; but it is not true, as he con
ceives, that Congress have the exclusive benefit
of any fund except the import duty. It is grant
ed that Congrels may impose taxes of excise ; it
may demand twelve cents per gallon for all the
rum that is retailed in the United States, and the
legislature of any State may lay an additional ex
cise of ißd. per gallon on rum. Are gentlemen
afraid that the consumption of rum will be pre.
•vented ? It is strange that gentlemen should of
fer to support this new and exceptionable mea.
lure by allegations that are so ill founded.
Mr. Page. One of my colleagues has taken
pains to convince the house that it was the inter
est of his State for Congress to afl'ume payment
of the State debts, and had concluded that his
colleague differed from him in opinion. I rife to
shew upon what grounds they so differ from him ;
and this I do notbecaufe I suppose I ain the best
qualified to undertake the business, but because,
as I have said but little as yet, and may have been
misunderstood, I wifli, whilst 1 answer my res.
pedlable friend, I may have an opportunity of
ihewingin what light I view the queltion before
the committee.
Sir,my colleague stated that it was the interest of
Virginia that Congress should afl'ume the payment
of the debts, because taxes laid for that purpose
by her legislature bore unequally on the state,
particularly in the middleand eastern parts. But
lir, granting this to be true, it is only a proof that
the weight of legislative influence is against those
parts of the country, and, if so, it is a proof that
a majority of the legislature at least must be a
gainit our flieltering ouvfelves under the gen
eral government, against the exertions of its au_
thority ; That if the present mode of levying tax.
es be agreeable to a majority of the people, the
innovation proposed must bedifagreeable to them ;
and that it is disagreeable even to the holders of
public (ecurities, appears to me to be evident
from the sudden and great fall of state certifi
cates, and the eagerness with which creditors
get rid of them. This is a fatft of which lam well
informed ; they fell 30 or 40 per cent, it is aflirm_
ed, soon after the plan of all'umption was propo.
fed ; and lam afl'ured, by some of the most sensi
ble and best informed gentlemen in Virginia, that
they think the aflumption of the state debts unjust
with refpedi to Virginia, and impolitic.
This, then, I think ought to be a fatisfaclory
answer to my worthy colleague, especially when
I add that the state now pays its debts in its own
way, in its own time, upon very easy terms, and
the creditors are fatisfied, and cannot but be
alarmed at the aflumption proposed by Congref?,
at least at the delay of two years before they can
poflibly tell what their certificates will be worth.
Sir, my friend (Mr. Bland) and other refped:-
ab)e members on his fide of thequeftion, suppose
that policy and justice dl(ftated the resolution be
fore you, but I conceive that policy demands that
we fhonld do nothing which may wound the cre
dit of thea;eueral government and excite the jea
lous fears of its late oppofers and secret enemies ;
and as to justice, that requires that Congreft
should pay the debts of the late Congress, and
sacredly comply with all its own engagements ;
and that state legislatures should pay their debts,
and comply with their engagements ; by doing
this, both the general government and the indi
vidual states establish their credit and follow the
dictates of the soundest policy
As to the debt of America, it is two fold ; one
part was incurred for the general defence, some
times under requifitious of Congress, and some
times by virtuous and voluntary exertions; the
other part was incurred for local purposes, some
times indeed against the common enemy, but
sometimes to fliew the power and spirit of the
state ; perhaps sometimes to lay the foundation
of future grandeur and pre-eminence amonglt
the. states, which, it ought to be remembered,
were separate, sovereign and independent, vieing
with each other and clashing in their interests,
so as to render it neceflkryto abolilh the confede
ration which feebly held them together only a.
gainst a common enemy, and to eftablilh the pre
sent federal government, under which alone pro
vifioncanbe made for payment of such debts as
are nowpropofed to be a (Turned ; butthofe particu
lar debts, further than such as are truly continen"
tal charges and contracted under the late govern"
ment, Congress ought no more to meddle with
than the debts of our allies in Europe. Sir, if
we undertake to pay a debt beyond that which
the late Congress was bound to pay, and a debt
too which is said to be enormous, mult we not
alarm the creditors of the late government ?—
Mull we not weaken the credit of the new go
vernment, and perhaps to such a degree as to
injure the very Hates which suppose they will be
benefited by the afl'umption proposed ? 1 conceive
lir, it would be good policy in Congress to efta
its credit upon the firmed balls : If it should do
this, it may hold forth its protecting hand to the
weaker states, and enable them to flourifh in
agriculture, arts and commerce, foas to be able
to pay all their own debts with honor.
Here, by the bye, 1 will observe that I think
it highly improper in gentlemen, to represent
the State debts as so large as to be beyond their
abilities so pay them ; 1 think this injurious to
the credit of the States, and, I fjope, founded on
a mistake. I, for my part, think there is not a
State in the union which, the foftering
hand of the general government, cannot pay its
debts in a reasonable time ; and sure 1 am, that
the iinpoit, tonnage, and back lands, will abun
dantly fnfßce for the payment of the debts and
supplies of the general government.
It is said that these, and all the resources of
government, being taken away, leave the States
without the means of paying their debts ; but
this is a miltake : for if we rejeifl the resolution
before you, fir, the States will have diretft taxes
in their own hands for this purpose. If, indeed,
the resolution be adopted, I know not what the
States will have left : we lhall then have grasp
ed at all their resources : we lhall prove the
truth of the predictions of the enemies of this
government, and wound the feelings of its
friends, who so often declared that they could
pledge themfelvet that Congress never would lay
direct taxes but in cases of extreme neceflity, and
where the general good evidently requii ed it ;
but in the cafe before us there is no such neces
sity ; on the contrary, itispropofed merely to
afford a partial relief to a few States, to the in
jury of a majority, and perhaps to the deduc
tion of public credit, which may terminate in
the ruin of all.
Thinking, therefore, as I do, fir, oftherel'o
lution before the committee, I /hall vote to re
jertit.
Mr. Bland. I rife to explain myfelf to my honorable col
league over the way (Mr. Page) or I would not now have troubled
the House. That gentleman seems to have rested his arguments
in his opposition to the sentiments I expreflcd yefterdav, on a
(ingle point, and that not the principal one which I made 'use of
but only a collateral one ; nor do I think, he has by any meani
invalidated what I then said even on that point. I could wish
the gentleman had taken the whole of my arguments, and answer
ed them fatisfaftorily to me and the committee, and not have de"
tached them ; he would then have found that I yesterday men"
tioned some fafls not easily to be disproved ; that Virginia had fuf
fered the loss of a very great number of her citizens by emigration
to Kentucky,. Franklin, Georgia, and other places, ofiwhofe as
fiftance in the payment of her State debt (he was totally deprived •
nay, to those of Kentucky, (he had yielded a very expensive prol
teclion, since the war, without receiving any return in taxes •
that in conference of her citizens emigrating, great quantities oi
the lands ot those emigrants were offered for Tale, which witho
thcr cautes, had produced a very great fall in the value of thl
lands held by those who nad not emigrated, and who had now to
pay the debts which were properly the debts of the union, to pav
then own State debt, and the debts which thev owed to British
creditors prior to the war, to those creditors and tlmt vat,on who had
taken from these very people their negroes, laid wide those very
lands, and burnt those towns, from whence they were to derive
the means of paying any thing. It is true I mentioned in a cur
Tory manner, and meant to apply it in its proper place, that the
weight of wealth lay towards the sea coast, and in the track of the
armies ; that there Mo, of course, lay the burthen of war, and the
principal part o those who were creditors of the State for monies
loaned and fupphesfurmfhed.&c. and that the weight of leeilU
twe influence lay towards the mouniains, and beyond them I
called upon the gentleman if this fact had not been ascertained in
the leginature of Virginia, when the fubjeft of the payment of
Britilh debts was agitated in that assembly ; and aflced him if loud
complaints were not uttered from every part of the house from the
lower members above defenbed, nay, even from members fur!
rounding the Honorable gentleman's placeof abode. How much
then mud the State creditors, as I contend thev are i
called, for the bulk of the State debt, dread a similar proceeding*
if the alTumptiondoes not take place, (hould any measure be mol
ved which might effect the credit of the State funds, and efpecTlly
when the fecuntiei, by being transferred, shall get into the hands
of a few persons compared to the whole, or toShofe who now
pofTefs them and who may be obliged to part with them J I
must remind the gentleman that the Bntifh debtors are liabTe to
be rued fortheir debts m the federal court, and that to many to
luin muftenfue A peace was necessary for America at the
time it was made ; few persons, except those who profited by the
war, would have been willing to h«e continued it in our circum
fiances ; those debtors were made a facrifice to the obtaining"^
438
peace; and without they are relieved by the affumpiion of the
continental debt, which was aflumed by the States when the cou
tineht was deficient in resources, their ruin would be complete.
He would candidly hear and argument that could be
urged ; but had yet heard none that, either on a general or a State
principle, had induced him to believe he lh ou lid vote on this great
question otherwise than he had hitherto done ; that he was optu
to convi&ion, but could not change his opinion on flight grouuds.
SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28.
On motion, ordered, That Mr. Carroll, Mi. Ellfworth, Mr.
Morris, Mr. Izard, and Mr Butler, be a committee to confidcr
what provision will be proper for Congress to make 111 the prc
fent feflion refpetting the State of Rhode-Island.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
The House resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole, on
the bill for the remiflion and mitigation of fines, forfeitures and
penalties in certain cases -the fame having been gone through
with, the committee rose, and the House ordered it to be enfeof
fed and read the third time to-morrow.
The bill fer the government of the territory south-east of the
river Ohio, was taken up by the committee of the whole, and
reported without any amendment, but in going through the
House some amendments were made thereto, and was ordered to
be engrofled for a third reading to-morrow.
Mr. Page, from the committee appointed for that purptjfe
brought in a bill to describe the mode in which the ads, records,
and judicial proceedipgs of the several States shall be proved, &c.
—which was read the firft time.
The House then resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole
on the bill to regulatetrade and iutercourfe with the Indian tribes,
and made progress therein.
THURSDAY, APRIL 29.
Mr. Sherman, Mr. Smith (S. C.) and Mr. Vining were appoint
ed a committee to report to the house if any, or what further
rules were neceflary to regulate the proceedings in the house ; and
also to confer with a committee of the Senate refpefting fnrthcc
regulations in conducing bufmefs betweeh the two houses.
Mr. Fitzfimons, Mr. Smith (M.) and Mr. Sturgcs were appoint
ed a committee to bring in a bill for the government and regula
tion oi seamen in the merchants service.
The house then resolved itfclf into a committee of the whole on
the bill fuppleiriLritary to the a£l, entitled, "An ast for eftablifh
mg tne lalaries of the executive officers of government, their af
fillants and clerks." The bill being gone through amend
ed, the committee rose, and the house agreed to the fame. By
this bill the secretary of state is allowed to employ another
clerk at a salary of 800 dollars per annum.
Ihe house Look into consideration the bill for providing the
means of intercom fe with foreign nations, and agreed to the fame
as amended by the committee of the whole on Tuesday last.
The house then rifolved itfclf into a committee of the whole on
the bill •' For the encouragement of learning, by securing the co
pits of maps, charts, and other writings, to the authors and pro
prietors of such copies, during the times therein meutioned."
FRIDAY, APRIL 30,
Sundry petitions and memorials were reac
A committee was appointed to report a catalogue of books /ui.
table to form a library, for the accommodation of both Houfeiof
Congress, and the Executive Officers of Government with ii
elfimate of the cxpencc.
Some reports of committees were read—and then the Hoafc
adjourned till Monday. ,
The firft session oi'the General Aflembly of Vir
ginia, subsequent to the eleiftion o{ the Pr*.
ndent of the United States, not haying bccit
heltl until several months after that -vgpr
ceflarlly delayed an address of congratulation
to rhe President until the winter following;
and the ill health of the Senators from that
State, who were dire<H.ed to present the- ad
dress, having interposed a further delay, uutU
Tuesday the 27th instant, when
The following Address was presented to the pre
sident of the United States, at his houie in
Broadway, by the Senators from the Com-
inoiiwealth of Virginia in the Congress of the
United States.
TO GEORGE WASHINGTON, PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES.
The Address of the General Aflbmbly of the
Commonwealth of Virginia
SIR,
r I ''HE General Aflembly of your native State,
embrace the firft moment in their power to
present the congratulations of your countrymen,
on your election to the Chief Magistracy of a
free and enlightened nation.
In early life you engaged the affections ofyour
fellow-citizens, by the exercise of those social
virtues, which have so eminently marked your
conduct, and acquired their confidence, by the
display of these abilities, which, under Divine
Providence, afterwards saved their liberties, ants
eltabliihed their independence.
1 hat you were a citizen, was never forgotten
by you, whilst a soldier ; and the end of yonr
military command confirmed the profeilions with
which it commenced.
The very toils and dangers through which
r° U .trc V j P a,lecl for our defence, although they
anctified your claim ro retirement, yet by pre
enting an earnest of your worth, created a ti
tle in your fellow-citizens to demand your re
turn to public artion ; yes, Sir, you have been
ca led to your present high station, by the 11 nan
lnious voice of a free people ; you have obeyed
them with a peculiar greatness of mind, dis
daining all scruples which could induce even a
momentary pause, and renouncing that doraeftic
u anqui ity, which alone you claimed as the re
ward of victory.
Devoted as we are to republican government,
we tear not to utter these truths to you, for we
beheve you will feel no emotions from the cor
dial offerings of universal praise, but those which
the purest virtue inspires.
e l , ° ok /° rward w ' ar dent hopes, that the
great chipofer °f events may long continue you
t ie inlti ument of general happiness ; and when
APRIL 28.
kit
into
tned
If
lea
cow
11101
fine
1 bill
He
Un
fyri,
nay, ,
Ulrua
V"
I lu.
»■ ',n of the
' Coi,.
com plcit.
C °ul(t be
the awful moment fliall arrive, in which the ci
tizen, most distinguished for his piety, wisdom,
valour and patriotism, must quit this sublunary
scene, the people of Virginia can be consoled,
only by their firm peri'uafion, that heisfummon
ed to meet that well-earned recompence, which
gratitude itfelf cannot render upon earth.
JOHN PRIDE, Speaker of the Senate.
THOs. MATHEWS, Sp'. Ho. Del.
A Copy, Teste,
Charles Hay, C. H. D.
thls S'ot
opt,
gfounJi
,r "i, M,.
'COl.Cjj.f
thc ptc. I
■TO WHICH ADDRESS THE PRESIDENT WAS PLEASED TO
MAKE THE FOLLOWING ANSWER.
To the General Aflembly of the Commonwealth
" ur «n,j
'Aro.p,
GENTLEMEN,
WITH a due l'enfe of the affectionate term sin
which your addrefsis conceived, I offer my
belt thanks for your congratulations on my electi
on to the Chief Magiltracy of a free and enlight
ened nation.
"ftoftl,
wlc,
>ugh
'dertj,
P"'*
"fWI
he »M»
ia n tribtj
If I have been enabled to make use of whatever
abilities Heaven has been pleased to confer upon
me, with any advantage to our common country,
1 consider it not less owing to the foftering en
couragement I received in early life from the
citizens of the commonwealth in which 1 was
born, than to the persevering support I have lince
experienced frominy fellow-citizens collectively,
in the course of their exertions, which under Di
vine Providence, saved their liberties and esta
blished their independence.
a PPO!tt.
at 'urilifj
>use; n<l
g'onbtt
•PPoiot.
i rtjulj.
However I may have confirmed my profeflions
by my conduct, 1 can claim no merit for having
been involved in the duties of a military com
mand through necelfity, or for having retired to
the state of a private citizen through inclination.
But I may be permitted to avow, that the con
ftruiftion you are pleased to put upon my motives
for returning to public life is peculiarly fatisfac
tory tome ; because I receive from the voice of my
countrymen, the only reward I wilhed for the fa
crifice—a just interpretation of the principles by
which I am conscious, I have been actuated.
'holt a
vholeoi
!'*#•
Accustomed to have my anions viewed through
a favorable medium, by my fellow-citizens in
general, and more especially by those of my na
tive state, I can but poorly coinpenlate for such
indulgence, by the purest emotions of gratitude
demonstrated in an active devotion to that repub
lican government, which is so deservedly the
firll object of their political attachment.
In looking forward to that awful moment,
when I must bid adieu to sublunary scenes, I an
ticipate the conlolation of leaving our country
ilia prosperous condition : And while the curtain
of fcpararion <hall be drawing, my last breath
will, I trust, expire in a prayer for the temporal
and eternal felicity of those, who have not only
endeavored to gild the evening of my days with
unclouded serenity, but extended their desires to
my happiness hereafter in a brighter world.
>kl fau
gulagf
villi a
Vis-
Pre
been
"ne;
i (bat
t ai
aui(
G - WASHINGTON.
Little follies, and petty ueaknelTeSy oj no moment in common life,
nay, when they enter into the characters of men in high Jlations> ob-
Jtrud the happine/s oj a great part oj mankind
TTis paying a great compliment to a person, to fay that in all si-
JL tuations he condu&s with propriety. There are other expref
lions of commendation that may be more flattering, but I know
of none that a reflecting man would prefer to the praise of having
committed few errors, and given little offence. If it is said thae
this kind of approbation may be applied Co a mere negative cha
racter ; I will reply that such a one gains no applause at all; he
only avoids censure. But he who moves in an active sphere of
hfe, and takes a decided part in momentous' concerns of the
community, and at the fame time maintains a pure reputation
ihews that he unites talents with discretion. The applause con
ferred on such a man will be dilated with sincerity and it will
lalt forever. When men loss their influence in society, they are
apt to reproach the world with insincerity or ficklenefs. Such
iufpicions generally are without reason. Every man may retain
influence unless he deserves to lose it. It is very true, that a man
of abilities and integrity may become unpopular; but ifthisfhould
happen,he mult blame himfelf and not the world. An honcft
man, ma> be very indifcreet,and a learned man may be very capri
cious, They cannot expc£l their capriceand indiscretion will fail
n° ity CatC dlfguft ' mercl y bccau fe they have fomc capacity and ho-
irate,
ert»
men,
of >
While the actions of men are confined to a narrow compass,
they may indulge foibles, without doing much injury or meeting
much reproach. The effect of little errors, when circumscribed"
does not engage general attention. But (hould a man carry with him
into public lite any obliquities ot character, however 'small they
may be, they may be attended with peculiar inconvenience A
ltubborn man, for instance, maydefeat the bed plans bv his obsti
nacy, though at the fame time, no one fufpefts he deliberately
a to oppofethe public welfare. He is only tndulgmg a con
mtutional propensity, which in ltfelfis innocent, but from its in
luence may become pernicious. Matters of small consequence in
tnernlelres, may be maae important by the circumstances that at
tend them. Caprice of temper is not deemed a vicious quality,
out it has produced worse effefls iu society than avarice or fraud.
" is not easy to conjecture how great a portion of the evil inci
dents of lite, are occasioned by the little follies and petty weak
s of men who would be thought great and learned.
pre
i ti
re-
nan
;«d
dir.
;n i
;ftie
re-
ent,
■ we
cor
tich.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
0. Fell. 17.
WednefdayM.de Cernon, member of the
committee of conftituiion, reported to the As
embJy a return from the Provinces, of several de-
the
sOt
lie#
of Virginia
THE TABLET
No. CX.
crees, tor fettling the limits of the ieveral dif
tricls, which will form the general decree rela
tive to that branch of the conilitution. He pro
posed to give a particular name to each diftrid
d :ts:r ihe ° id: but ° n noting
M. de Cazales proposed that the Aflembly
ftould appoint the time of their difiblution, and
the election of a new one. This motion, the last
hope of expiring aristocracy, was received with
general disapprobation, and the previous ques
tion eagerly called for.
M. de Mirabeau was surprised that any mem
bei should dare to propose a motion to that As
sembly, which would tend to criminate them
lelves Had they not taken a foleran oath not to
separate till they had finiflied the formation of a
conititution ! and had not that oath been taken
by them, when surrounded with the instruments
or delpotic power !
T , . , • . Thursday, Feb. iB.
is day, after reading the minutes, the Pre
annou"cfd „ a letter from Monsieur Le Due
D Orleans, addressed to the National Aflembly,
which was as follows:
it r London. Feb. is.
Monsieur Le President,
M ''. Hav . in g ob^ ined leave of absence from the
National Aflembly of the 4 th of October last I
have been employed since that time in the accom
plifliment of those objects entrusted to me by his
Majesty, and have directed all my efforts to pro
mote the advantage of the nation, and the glory
ot the King ; but though at a distance from the
lcene of your deliberations, my heart and foul are
present in your august aflembly, of which I es
teem it iny highest honor to be a member—And,
permit me to lay, that I have anxiously attended
to your laborious duties, and have always had the
good fortune to find my own fentiinents exnrefled
in your decrees—l heartily coincide in those fen
uments of love and respect repeatedly offered to
his Majesty who, without any attendants but his
virtues—without any view but a sincere love of
the people, united hiinlelf with the representa
tives of the nation, to strengthen that happy re
generation which will redound to the future elo
ry and honor of France.
It was natural, that on that memorable day
every member of the Aflembly fliall make a pub
lie avowal of the principles of his conduit. The
only conlolation 1 have in not participating in
such important services, is, that I have here been
not wholly useless to my country.
In these circumstances I entreat you to sup
plicate the aflembly on my part, that they would
accept of my formal acceflion to the oath taken
by the members on the 4 th instant.—l do there
fore swear to be faithful to the Nation, the Laws,
and the Kingand to maintain to the utmost of
my power the constitution decreed by theAflem
bly, and ianrtioned by the King.—By which I
enforce, as far as in my power, the decree of
the 4th instant.
" And I am happy to be in perfect nnifon with
hat body in sentiment and principles.
" I am, with refpeJh
M. Le President,
our very humble and obliged servant,
L. P. J. D'OIILEANS.''
Depute a J'Atfeuiblee Nationale.
LONDON, March 16.
• Theex P e<fte d motion in the French Na
tional Aflembly, for the abolition of all titles of
n « T' 33 Duke ' Maquis, Count, &c. in
all Registers, Commissions, Leases, &c. is to be
brought forward this day.-Such is the plealure
of our Oliverian Levellers ! And for the further
advancement of the true Catholic Religion, the
number of Bishops is to be reduced from 140 to 12 !
rhe Swedish Mini fter at Copenhagen has for
mally declared that the terms of peace offered by
the Empress of Ruflia have been rejected toto,
and that the King, his master, was fully deter
mined to pursue the war with the utmost vigour.
r 10111 a gentleman who was present at the ex
ecution of the unfortunate Marquis de Favras we
r j-« *. • before the fatal moment
of diflolution hefpokewith uncommon audibility
and force, and 111 the most dire<ft language accus
ed not only Monf. de St. Priest and the other wit
neiles against him of perjury but his Judges of
corruption and partiality.
If, said he, " those inhuman Tudges had
permitted me, I would have produced such de
monstrative evidence of my perfecft innocence,
that the popujace who fought my life, would have
imbibed an interest in my preservation ; " but,
continued he, " I forgive those falfe Judges, and
Ileave them and their crimes to the mercy of that
omniscient Judge who hears and knows the truth
ofmy declaration."
Upon delivering his purse for his wife into the
hands of his Confeflor, his fortitude for the firft
time railed him—his emotions were strong and
convulsive, and nature burst forth in a profufion
or tears ; from which he did not after entirely re.
cover. This amiable weakness became sympathe
tic, and even the rabble, his most inveterate foes
caught the forrowful infection.
439
NEW-YORK, SATURDAY, MAY i.
I he Bruilh riation is highly to be refpcded fnr it* I.t*
well as .o, the w.fdom of'LLe
taught moderation, and slaves their
am fur P"ftd to find that the attempt to repeal the BrU
tiih 1 eft laws has not succeeded. Mr Pitt's u r
poled to expreis his own fentimenu; ad„ «£ *»,.oritvwSK
voted with him was to the minority a's two to con
fider the sense o. the house, as expreffcd by the vote Amoncr
? krn!° piCS ' ' nflfts U P°" the uec effitv of a national religious ?
Üblilhrnent, and treat, the claim of an 2q„ a litj of
travagant deluGon of the mind. Is "there a vUa« in
t'hen'? A his a u°t r ";° of „ Mr - Piu ' s WMld bc approved ? How is"
cause truth lAh° exploded errors chenihed in Britain, be
arnedSf OV "!° n ' and they are afraid of ,ts being
carried so far as to overturn the Hierarchy ? Or has tlt^^^j'.u.
pation upon the rights of coafcience retarded the proSHKZ
nation towards liberality; while the national charalhSjQ
Wherh mu ! ky. a)moll tve ' y Other ?
| Whether it may be their misfortune that they dare not^^heir
thfdiffenter's "1 d ' f P afcd to rc P eal thc tdt laws,of winch
The delavs nfr r" " ' re P roach u P° n the 1 8th century.
haveformed he jT "a"™ ' CV y tenfurcd • nations
ormed their debts and revenues by degrees—but Ccmsrrels
have to perform both operations at once. The debts are older
wftho r egoVernmCM 7 and thC y havc to P rov ide funds for them
without experience of what they will yield, or how they mav
ficukv r y r P ° W k Where thcre IS| ° milch «al d.f
. " it is natural to expect great doubts—and the p.ocefs of
n-°jV u dlfficult y ma y b<r surmounted is protraded and
embarrassed by the local prepossessions and unfortunate iealoufies
who "• r ThC dC ' aV ° f buGnefs 15 not Int entional Those
w Uexe«,h m 7 r rC " P " (rrd ' whlch ' s pernicious,
will exert themselves to obftruQ us paffage—thev will deem it
better to do nothing than to do wrong. But when th' K re" „b
---involve the b" 0,311 be com P I and which seem to
nvolve the being of the government in the decision, the fubiefts
l!d wh°.n W1 " u e d,min ' fh^d ln num ber and importance-—
1h k m ? lC ! the <P lr K°f controversy will abate ; for the na
n W ll' ' afC da ' ly f ?r rm '" g a " d wUI bc fil ft efablifced
Th' 7a" ' m P" lf V° mca r fur " which will accelerate
ind fromC r ul" °' d '"S"from one another,
nd from Congress will be more and more peieeived to be grouiid
lels; in future the progref. of bufinef. may be found to be as ex
pedi ,°us as will be proper. Few men of sense will believe that
in j mc ' s wanton (y walled, in order to get more pay • though
fnm fl'a may W '° crcatc f0 Vlle a Mpicion. But Without
verfa/ohft T" T\ l novelty of their f.tuation and the uni
come un f which they have to overcome, the public may be
come unreaionably impatient.
APPOINTMENTS.- BY AUTHORITY
George Wray, collector, for the port of Hampton, in Virginia
in the place of Jacob Wrav, rdigned. ' Virginia,
, I( J r o i n I^'f" 1 , loUsh ' furve 'yor, of the port of Swanlborouph, and
diftrift of Wilmington, and Will,am Benfon, surveyor, of the'
Ch cYrot r' I h % d ' ftr ' a ° f Eden i° n ' b ° lh 1:1 th < of
W, U u ; In J Scnatc nominated and approved, April 2 q.
UnYed K yC *"'y "W" ° rde,cd ''><-• Senate P P s t&
United States, that Mr. Strong be added to the committee aD
poimed to consider what prov.fion will be proper for Congress
arrf'h m .h f / r fr? 0 , n ' refpefting the Mite oi Rhode If
lawl, the stead of Mr. Butler, excused at his own desire : his
colleague being on the committee.
(PT_ The Public Creditors wre notified h the Boflon Iniebtndent
Chronic,e, the 22: d ultimo, to meet at the (ofee-Houfe x* that town
U ' U ««* <° Broad
I'RICE CURRENT. NEW-YORK.
1 aMAICA Spirits, 5 r 3 . s /
J Antigua Rum, 4Jg. a s/.
St. Croix, do. 4/4. W
Country, do. 3/.
MolalTci, 2\f. 2fx.
Brandy, 6/6. a 6/3.
Geneva,
Do. in cafcs, 28/T
Muscovado Sugar, 80s. a j2 f.
Loaf, do. 1/3.
Lump, do. 1/14.
Pc pp cr > 31
Pimento, if. a its.
Coffee, if 3. ,fa.
Indigo, (Carolina) ?f. a 6f.
Do. French, ißy^
Rice, 231. 24/
Superfine Flour, 64f.
Common do.
Rye do. 26/ a 28/
Indian Meal, ,8/ 20/
R y*. 479- pr. bufli.
Wfieat, 11f. a 12J.
Corn, (Southern) 4f.
Do. (Northern,) sf-a aCo
Beelr, firft«,ual,{ y ,
Pork, firft quality, 75A
Oats, 1/7. 1 fq.
Flax-feed, 5 f
Ship bread per cwt. 21/ 24/
Country refined ) _.
bar-iron, £2 • d 3°'-
Do. bloomery, 251. a 261.
Swedes do. 451.
Ruflia do. 301.
Pig-iron, 81 icy: a gl.
German steel, grf.per lb.
Nails American, by caflc, ) . . j
per. lb. 4 d. J 4 '
Do. do. do. 6d. 12d.
Do. do. do. Bd. 9\d.
Do. do. do. iod.
Do. do. do- i2d.f . , ,
Do. do. do. 2od>^' /aß i' / -
Do. do. do, 24d.)
Pot alh, per ton, 391. a 401.
Pearl alh, 481 a 501.
Bets-wax per lb. if.
Mackaiel per barr. 26f. a
Herrings, 18/ i6f.
Mahogany, Jamaica, ) ,
per foot, I lod -
Dominico, do. gd.
Honduras, do. 7d.
Logwood unchipped,pr.ton. 81.
Do. chipped. 141.
John Smith & Peter\Vendover
SAIL-MAKERS,
R E ,h ! ITT inf ° rm thc ' r Fnends Public in general
JJ that they have commenced business ,n copartnership m thTir
line, under the Firm of SMITH and WENDOVER in tt, <j "i
L ° f t on Van Zandt's Wharf (near the tmerlv
occupied by Carme r and Smith, and lately by John Smith
Those Gentlemen who will be pleased to favor them wkhlhek
ma y de P etl d upon having their work done in the belt
manner, and on as Ihort notice a; ran be cxpefled.
<dAY ——Dolum at Bj.
Do. 22 inch do. il. 6J.
Do. >8. inch do. 18f,
Butt white oak. ftavet, »«/:
Pipe do. do. gl. ' W
Hogshead do. do. 61. tof.
'Do. do. heading, 81.
Inlh barrel do. ftavcs, 31. $[.
Hoglhead red oak do. tl. t f
Do. French do. 51.
Hogftiead hoops, 41.
Whiteoak square timber ) ,
per square foot, J 1 '
Red wood, per ton, 201.
Fuftick, sol.
Beaver, per lb. 12/416/.
Otter per (km 9/ 3 2 /
Grey fox, aJ7.
Martin, 4/10.
Racoon, 3 f6 aif 6.
Mufkrat, "10d. a 14d.
Beaver hats, 64 f.
Castor do. 48f.
Chocolate, 14^.
Cocoa, 70/ a Bos.
Cotton, Wg.
Tar, pr. bar. 10/.
Pitch, 14J,
Turpentine, 18/ a 20f.
Tobacco, James River, sd. aolJ
Do. York, 4d. a 3 %d.
Do. Rappahanock, 2d a %\d.
Do. Maryland, coloured, cji.
Do. Weftern-lhore, id a 3%d.
Lead in pigs, pr cw t. 6of.
Do. bars, 68/
Do. Shot, 68f.
Red lead, 6Sf.
White do. dry, acs
! White do. in oil, 5 1. 12 r
Salt-petre hams,
Spermaceti candles, *r
Mould do. nd. a if.
Tallow dipt, gU.
Soap. Sd. a Sd.
Castile soap, g4. a
Epglifh cheese, pr. lb. icj.
Country do. s d. 61/.
Butter, 10 d.
Hyson tea, 9/6. a lo r
Sequin do. 6/6.
Bohea do. 2/6.
Ginseng, 2/ a 2/6.
Starch Poland, yd.
Snuff, 2J3.
AUum fait, water mea- >
lure, pr. bush. "J 3/®-TRANSLATED
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
FROM THE LEYDEN GAZETTE.
Publiflied by Stephen Luzac.
[A Paper that isconfidered in Europe asthemoft
authentic medium of Intelligence—and as such
circulates more extensively than any other si
milar publication.]
(CONTI NU ED.)
ExtraCt of a letter from Madrid, 14 Dec. 1789.
OVERNMENT has been very atjentive in
VJ preventing the circulation of any papers
the revolution in France—several how
been introduced into Spain, and some
translated into Spanish. The lnquifition
"which'has relaxed in persecuting herely, now
"watches over the political orthodoxy of the na
tion, and has anathematized a number of their
■works.
About three weeks since an Ordinance was pub
lished hene enjoining all persons (excepting the
Grandees of Spain) who are not fettled ui the
capital, and who cannot produce good reasons for
Haying, to leave Madrid in a fortnight, under
penalty ot a fine of 50 ducats, in cafe of disobe
dience.
Ex tratt of ft letter Jrom Paris, 28 Dec,
Among a number of matters, of consequence to
this capital, but little Co to the world at large,
few have affected M. 13ailly, and excited more
general attention, than a plot which was disco
vered latt Saturday, which was, to put to death
the Ma vo r, and the Ma Rqul sdela Fayette.
1 he committee for searching the city immediate
ly aflembled, and ordered foine perfoni to be ap
prehended—the moll conspicuous is M. Morel,
Administrator of the Royal Lottery of France.
He was arretted on Saturday evening, and after
having been interrogated at the Hotel de Ville,
neither he nor the others were confined. It is
probable that this report, like many others, is
without foundation. M. Favras, anil his wife,
who is said to be a natural daughter of the Prince
An halt, and who were among the number of
the arretted, mentioned in their deposition cer
tain connexions with Monsieur the King's brother.
A report immediately prevailed that this Prince
was at the head of the conspirators. In order to
contradict this report in the moil public manner,
Monsieur came the day before yelterday to the
Aflembly of the Commons of Paris, and made a
fpeecli, in which he set forth his acquaintance with
M. Favras, which had been in his fervke in the
Swift-guards, which he left in the year 177;, from
which time, until lately, he had no communica
tion with him, when he employed him to tranf
a<ft foine money negociations. He spurned at the
idea of jultifying himfelf on this occasion, and
explained his opinions which he openly avowed,
and would always support—and concluded by
fay ing, that the happinels of the King, and of the
people, was the sole object of his thoughts and
willies.
A robbery was committed 011 the Chatelet, be
tween the hours of 10 and 1 r on Sunday evening
the 20th, by ten persons who broke in, knowing
'that it contained a large quantity of money pro
perty and valuable papers,and among other things
jewels of above 200000 livresin value, belong
ing to the eltateof the late Dutchefs of Kingston.
They were discovered whilfl filling their pockets,
three were seized, and the other fe veil made their
escape, four of whom it is said have fiuce been
taken.
The defence which the Parliament of Brittany
is about to nrake at the bar of c lie National Aflem
bly, where it has been cited, iuterefts the public
attention. The parliament pi opofesto jultify its
conducfl on the principle, That " it is out of
their power to dispense with their oaths, which
with the law of the Province prohibits them from
regittering any law that has not been accepted by
the States of Brittanny.
The decree of the National Afiembly, of the
24th declaring Non -Catholics capable of filling; all
employments, civil or military, as well as other
citizens, affords Europe an example, which docs
notexift among people, proudest of their repub
lican liberty Ifthe like (pirit of this truly chris
tian wisdom and charity does not pervade other
enlightened nations, there can be no doubt but
that an equitable toleration, a coiiltirution under
which the rights of men and citizensare duly ap
preciated, a mild climate, Agriculture encoura
ged, and Commerce protected, will reltore to
France that population, that spirit of industry,
and aiflivity-—lll a word, that universal tranquil
ity, which the fatal reign of despotism, under
Lpwis the XlVth. feemcd to have ravifiied from
it forever. Tiie speech of M. Brunet de Latu
tnjE, deputy from the bailiwick of Nerac, which
occalioned the decree, did him great honor.
E'xtratt of a tetter from Petersburg, 11 Dec.
The Empress among other proofs of her esti
mation of the services of Field Marftial Prince
PoTEMKtN, the conqueror of Oczakow, has pre
fe'nted him with a let of brilliants, in the form of
a crown ot l aurel, to wear round his hat, valued
at rooooo roubles. I.t. Col. Subow, who brought
the news of the capture, was piefented with a
fnuiTbox, richly ornamented with diamonds
Maj.Gen. Potoff, who delivered the key of the
fortrefs, has been decorated with the orderof St.
Ann. Prince George DolgorUCKl hasobtain
ed the blue ribbon of St. Andrew. Lt. Gen. Sa-
MoiLoWthe order of St. Alexander, and Major
Gen. Engelharct the order of St. Wolodemir
of the second class.
DISGOURSES ON DAVIIA.
La nature parlc aux cacur* de* Rois, tout comrac a «eux des par*
NATURE speaks the fame language to the
hearts of Princes, as to those of other men.
i —Kings compare themselves with other Kings,
or with fucli of their own subjects, as are nearest
to them : and have the fame sentiments as pri
vate persons, of pride, vanity, jealousy, resent
ment and hatred arising from such comparisons.
Francis Ift. after his afcention to the throne ;
whether he was miffed by an imprudence of
youth, or whether liecoufulted only his own be
neficent disposition—proposed to liimfelf, from
the firft day of his reign, to aggrandize the Prin
ces of the blood, and load them with favors. To
elevate in dignity, those who belonged to the
Royal family by proximity of blood, he believed
to be for his own glory ; having discerned in
Charles tlie head ot the Branch of Bourbon,
all the talents which form the great Captain and
the able Statesman, he gave him the office of
Constable ; and by conferring on him and the
Princes ot that lioufe the molt diftinguilhed em
ployments, he placed them at the head of the
most important affairs of his kingdom. This it
must be confefled was impolitic ; since it is al
ways dangerous for the firft in office or command,
to be over fond or familiar with the second—to
confer too many opportunities of eclipsing his
own glory or of drawing away the attention of
the public ; or to offer too many temptations to
ambition, rivalry or envy.—Accordingly the firft
fire of this zeal abated : and experience having
excited his jealousy, or policy revealed to him the
leafons of the conduct, which his' predeceflors
had liolden ; lie manifefted in the sequel as
much eagerness to lower the Bourbons, as he
had at firft di(covered of afFe<ftion to exalt them.
fortune soon presented an opportunity favora
ble to hisdefign. Louisa of Savoy, his mother,
had commenced a law suit against Charles, for
the Dutchy of Bourbon, in his pofleffion. Judg
es, in those days, were not independent.—The'King
thought that by influencing the decision, in favor
of his mother, and by thus despoiling the House
of Bourbon of the richest portion of their patri
mony, he might accelerate the declension of a
ci edit, tounded in part 011 their inimenfe riches.
-Charles, in the course of the proceedings,
discovered the manoeuvres, which were pradtifed
to his prejudice, by the Chancellor Dutrat, by
order of the King. Ihe indignation, which he
conceived at this injury, and the apprelienfion
of the rcverfe of fortune which threatened him
struck him so forcibly, that, having negociated
secretly with the Emperor, Charles Vth. and
Henry Vlllth. King of England, he conspired
against the State, and even against the person of
the King. His designs were discovered : and
neceintated to fly the kingdom with precipitation
he afterwards bore arms against his fovereigu —
He commanded the Imperial army at the battle
of Pavia, in which after the bloody defeat of the
French army the King surrounded on all fides
by the infantry of the enemy, remained a
pnfoner. The Constable, as a punishment of all
these crimes was declared a rebel : all his estates
were confifcated and united to the dominions of
the crown. He was killed soon after, at the
taking of Rome,; and there remained to the
Bourbons nothing of that grandeur, which had
infpiredfo much umbrage to Kings. Their mif
fortunes did not cease here—Although Charles
was deceased without iffiie and the other Princes
of his House had not favored his revolt, resent
ment in the breast of the King overcame his rea
ion, and the Bourbons were deprived of the fa
vours of the court, and baniffied from the go
vernment. Their personal merit could not fof
ten the hatred attached to their name. This ri
gour it is true, dmyniffied with time, and in pro
portion, as the memory of the past, and the dif
advantageous ideas which the King had conceiv
°l w m ', Were efFaced fr °m his mind. Ne
ftrnSlH., C^ U '° ufl / a PP lied himfelf, to ob
ftriKt all the paflages, by which they might have
1 etui ned to the pofleffion of those dignities and
that power, to which Royal favor ha<f formerly
raised them. These secret dispositions of the
King were perfectly known loCharles ok Ven
dome, now at the head of that House, who by
his moderation, studied to dissipate the suspicions
which were entertained against his family; in
this view he reft,fed, during the imprisonment
of the King, to pretend to the regency, which
belonged to him, of kingwas
set at liberty, Charles (hut himfelf up wiih his
domestics leading a private life, without med
dling in the government of a State, in which he
saw he-was fnfpected. /Ul the other Bonbons
after his example retired, as nuxh ,0 prove
they were innocent of the revoltof the Constable.
440
ticuliers.
as to mark their fubmiilion to the w ill of tj lc
King, even when it was moll difadvantaoeous
them. They avoided everything which could
revive the dillruft against them : and, too open,
lyin disgrace, to think of elevating theinfehes
to those dignities which they thought alone fi|j t
able to their birth, and too haughty to defceiul
to thefmaller places, they renounced all the ho
nors and offices of the court. The fame caufe
produce the fame effects. The late revolution
in France, opened a profpedt to the Royal f am j
ly, not very different from that in ijij. j| ]Q
the merits and injuries of Orleans, may not
Compared to those of a Constable de Bourbon
yet the palfious of a Prince of the blood of the
second order may hereafter be painted by a no .
ther Da vi i. a. Opportunity will generally ex
cite ambition to aspire : And if even an impro
bable cafe Ihonld happen of an exception to this
rule, danger will always be fufpeded and appre
hended, in such circumstances, from fach caufcs
We may soon fee, that a form of government in
which every pallion has an adequate counterpoise
can alone secure the public from the dangersand
mifchiefs, of such rivalries, jealousies, envies and
hatreds.
FASHION. AN EXTRACT.
A DDISONf speaking of the attention paid by
-iV the women of his day, to the ornaments of
their heads and of their feet, supposes them to
be actuated by the old houfe-wif'ry maxim," that
ifyou light the fire at both ends, the middle will
take care of itfelf," but the greater caution of
this age is, it seems, unwilling to trust to the pro
verb ; and equal attention is at present paid to
the center as ro the extremities ofthe fair. The
present idea of beauty as applied to this part of
theleinale, appears to confilt entirely in bulk
hence the Y enus a bellesfeffes of the present tima
is a Venus agraffes fejfes : Whereas, in a few years
hence, female beauty may consist in being as lank
as a greyhound.
New-York City Lottery.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, for the purpofeof raising Sevtt 7»«-
J un * n ' e Hundred Pounds, agreablcto an ACT of the Uciflfc
lure of the Sun: of New-York, patted Bth February, , 79 0
SCHEME.
i PRIZE of £ .3000
1000
s°°
200
100
60
20
10
4
2
3
i°
3°
5°
1 20
ißi
79.5°
24<*_
TBm,
3«8O*
1,346 Piizcs, ) ,
66,54 Blanks, $ 2 S°®°TickeH, it 40;. each, M«
Subjefl to a dedu£lion of Fifteen per Cent.
THEobjcft of this LOTTERY being to raise a part of the rum
TV us i i / cor P oratlon for repairing and enlarging the CI-
It HALL, for the accommodation of CONGRESS, whichdoes
so much honor to the Architea, as well as credit to the city. The
managers prefnme that their fellow Citizens will cheerfully con,
cur in promoting the sale of Tickets, especially as the success of
this Lottery Will relieve them from a tax, which must othe'wife
be laid to rejmourfe the corporatioo.
rhe above SCHEME is calculated in a manner very beocfifiiJ
to adventurers, there not being two blanks to a prize.
he Lottery is intended to commence drawing on the Fust
Monday m August next, or sooner if filled, of whichtiady
notice will be given. A lift of the fortunate numbers willbtpob
liihcd at the expiration of the dr3win<*.
Tickets are to be fold by the fubfmbcrs, who are appoint
Managers by the Corporation.
Isaac Stoutenburch, Ab rah am Her rinc,
»r r"R r. Curteni us, John Pintard.
New- York, 6th M&rcfi t i ygo.
advertisement.
R L ° r , n- hc honorable John Slofs Hobart Esquire, oneof
X-# the Justices of the Supreme Court of Judicature of the State
o New-\ ork. Notice is heieby given to Paul Deyrell,now of
lateoi Long Island, Esquire, an abfeonding debtor, and la all
others whom it may concern; that upon application and
proof, made to the said Justice, pursuant to an ast of the legifla
jilf' Cn V, V, "an for rclief a gainst abfeonding and absent
I t r o 'j , r, p urth da y of A P ril » 1786, by a creditor of
the: raid Pali I Deyrell, he the said Justice has dircfted all his the
laid Paul Deyrell'» ElUte, real and personal, within this State, to
e ei ze , and that unless he (hall discharge his debts within three
months after the publication of this notice; all his Estate real and
perlonal will be fold for the payment and fatisfaftion of hiscrc-
Da'nl St the city of New-York, the twenty-seventh
ot March, in the year of our Lord one thousand leven hun<M
and ninety. March 3 t. iaw3m .
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59 ,t0 No. ,87, Water-Street, ncartbt
arket
WHERE they negociate all'kinds ofPUBLICK
SECURITIES-BILLS OF EXCHANGE. &c. as usuaL
New-York, Aprils, 1790. -tf.
William Taylor,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
» _ No. 4, Bur l 1 nc-Sl Ip,
Aflortment of EAST-INDIA GOOD&
nn/it- .A" 10 "' which are the following Articles :
BOOK Mufluis 8-4 6-4 ,5-4 || HUMHUMS,
Jackonet do. || Long Cloths,
Hankerchiefsjof various kinds,ll Caffas,
|| SeerfJckers,
ng 'J m! ; || Boglapores.
~r.,, r ., ' ariety of handsome painted MUSLINS.
V Ith many other Articles, which will be fold by the Pi« c
Package, low for calh.
• tjoi'
<•#
9*»