tffhpwtmrP*
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN SO, No. 69, MARKET-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREE IS, PHILADELPHI \
[No. 54, of Vol. ll.]
PLAN OF THE
GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES
(A NATIONAL PAPER.)
PublifHcd at the Seat of the National Government,
Computing
ARLY and authentic accounts of the Proceedings ofCohgreft
-I_j »ts Lawj, Acts, and Rejolutions, communicated lo «»s to
form an history of the tranla&'.ons ot the national goveinment.
11. Impartial Sketches oj the Debate* of Congrejs.
111. f-jfays| on the great subjects of Government', also upon the
local and national rights ot the American citizens, as founded up
on the national or state Conftirutions ; and upon every oihcr fub
jeefc, which may appear suitable for newspaper difcuflion.
IV A fries oj Paragraphs t calculated to catch the " living man
ners as they rile," and to point the public attention to obje&s
that have an important reference to domcftic, social and public
happiness.
V. The Interefis of the United States as conncfted with their
literary Institutions ; religious and moral objetts ; improvements
in Science, Arts, Education and Humanity; their foreign
treaties, alliances, connexions, See.
VI. Every species ot Intelligence which may afFect the commer
cial, agricc'iural, manula£luriug, or political mtereifcs of the Ame
rican nation.
VII. A chain of Domeflic Occurrences.
VIII. A f erics o\ foreign ay ticks of Intelligence.
IX. The slate oj the Funds \ Lourfes of Exchange ; Prices Current.
Published every Wednesday and Saturday.
The price to fubferibers, (exclusive of postage) Three Dol
lars per annum.
The fir ft feini-annual payment to be made at the time of fub
f-ribing : The 'econd at the end of the year.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Will be received in all the capital towns upon the Continent ; also at No.
69, Market-Street, between Second and fhird Streets, Philadelphia.
To the PUBLIC
AT this important crisis, the ideas that fill the mind, are preg
nant with events of the greatcft magnitude—to strengthen and
complete the union of the .States—to extend and protect their
commerce—to explore and arrange the national fundi —to restore and
cftablifh the public credit—will require the energies of the patriots
and sages of nui country —Hence the propriety of encreafing the me
diums ojknowledge and information.
AMERICA, from this period begins her national existence—
11 the world is all before her"—the wisdom and fol
ly—the misery and prosperity of the empties, fates, and kingdoms,
which have had their day npon the great theatre of time, and are
now no more, suggest the most important mementos —tnefe, with
the rapid series of events, in which our country has been involved,
have taught the enlightened citizens of the United States, that free
dom and government —liberty and laws, are inseparable.
This conviction led to the adoption of the new constitution ;
for however various the sentiments, refpe&ing the merits of this
fyftcm, all good men are agreed in the necefliry of an efficient fe
deral government.
A paper, therefore, eftabliftied upon national, independent, and
impartial principles—which lhall t3ke up thepremifed articles,upon
a competent plan, it is presumed, will be highly intercfting,
and meet with public approbation and patronage.
The Editor of this publication is determined to leave no avenue
of information unexplored :—He solicits the afliftance oi persons
ofleifure and abilities—which, united with his own alliduity, he
flatters himfelf will render the Gazette of the United States not
unworthy general encouragement and is, with due refpeft,
the public's humble servant, THE EDITOR.
April 15, 1790.
THIS publication commenced with the
present government of the United States :—lts
principal objects are comprised in the above plan ;
they have been thus far attended to, according
to the bed abilities of the Editor—and that they
are deemed interesting, has been evinced by tire
general approbation which the paper has receiv
ed,and the exteniive circulation it has obtained :
It ihall be the aim of the Editor to keep up the
spirit of his plan—every communication condu
cive to that point, will be gratefully received
Freedom, Government, Union and Peace conilitute
thehappinefs of every country —the United States
in a particular manner, have all their present
enjoyments, and future hopes, suspended on the
preservation of these essential pillars of human feli
city : In an ardent wifli to promote these great
objedis, the " Gazette of the United States" ori
ginated—to these it has been—and Ihall be sedu
lously devoted ; and while it continues an impar
tial vehicle to the public of governmental tran
fa<ftions, and interesting information on the molt
important fubjeJts of life, the Editor cannot fail
ef public encouragement.
Agreeable to the original design, the publics
tion is now commenced in Philadelphia, the feat
of g° ver nment for the United States.—The pa
tronage of the citizens of this metropolis is here
by solicited :—Thofe who may wifli to form a
judgment of the work, are refpeiftfully informed
that thefirft volume (from April 1789, to April
1790) maybe infpetfted at the house of the Editor,
No. 69, Market-Street.
The second volume commenced in April last :
The Editor can supply the numbers complete from
that period—which contain the laws of the second
feffionof Cangrefs —and the debates and proceed
ings of the house of Representatives, during four
months of the feflion.
CONDITIONS.
Wednesday, November 5, 1790.
Among the innumerable blelfings derived to
the people of tlie United States from the present
general government, there is none productive
of happier effe&s than that spirit of universal
citizenship which has in a great measure era
dicated party and local dillintftions,and now forms
a great national feature in the American charac
ter. The Editor therefore, with confidence,
takes his station in the capital of the United
States, being fully persuaded, that in proportion
to his merits, he will receive the patronage of the
public. JOHN FENNO.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
EXPERIMENTS 011 the SARAGHTOGA WA
TERS.
From a Communication to Stephen Van Wyck, Esq.
By Samuel L. Mitchell, Esq. M. D. in Republ.
r- I r t/ v
Ebor. LXX i'in ; ire. ire.
" 'T'HE temperature of the surrounding
-I- atmosphere being ar the fifty eighth
degree of Farenheit's scale, the heat of the up
permost Spring was forty nine and an half de
grees ; thatol the lower fifty-one and a half.
Corrojive fublhuatc of Mercury when difl'olved
in the water, underwent mo perceptible altera
tion. As this substance was not decompounded,
it is clear there was no Alkali present in the
Spring, in its aerated (late.
Aerated fixed vegetable Alkali rendered the wa
ter turbid, and a white precipitate foonfell down
in large quantity. A plain indication of earth
didblved in the water.
The kind and quality of this earth was striking
ly shewn by the following experiments. I. Solu
tion of Soap in Alkohol was quickly deconipofed.
2. Acid of Sugar very speedily threw down a co
pious white precipitate. This last was exceed
ingly beautiful, and proved the quantity of Lms
to be remarkably abundant
To determine whether the Vitriolic and Muri
atic acids were contained in the water, the two
ensuing experiments were made. i. A folvtion
of Silver in the Nitrous Acid, became very white
and niilk-like, inllantlyon being added. 2. An
aqueous solution of acetated Lead, was precipitated
immediately after mixture, in the form of a white
powder. Whence it is presumable the water
contains both Glauber's Salt and Sea-Salt, especi
ally since much saline matter is afforded, by eva
poration.
Green Vitriol at firft diflolved readily, but af
terwards onftanding, a yellowilh ochre was de
posited
Lunar Caustic, was instantly decomposed, white
locculi rose plentifully to the top of the water,
ind floated there, forming white striae as they
palled upwards ; within a minute they loft their
whiteness, in a considerable degree, became of
an ash or dove-colour, and funk one after another
to the bottom. The whole liquor then appeared
turpid and somewhat purple.
Lastly, the presence of Iron was proved by
these two experiments. I. Phlogijlicated Alkali
aflumed on mixture, a blue colour. 2. Saturat
ed Tinflure of Galls in Alkohol, acquired fomewliat
of a purple hue. The chalybeate impregnation
is however weak, for the quantity of ferruginous
matter is Anall, and contained in the upperinoft
spring only.
Froin which experiments, and from those for
merly published on the fame fubjecft, it is evident
the Saraghtoga waters contain as principal ingre
dients : 1. acid. 2. Lime. 3. Sea-salt. 4.
Glauber's Salt. 5. Iron.
Much remains to be said on their medicinal
qualities and effects ; but I shall Itop here for the
present, with recommending to the curious,an at
tentive perusal of Sir Forbcru Birgman's truly
fcientific and elaborate Eflay on the Artalyft.f of
Waters, whenever they visit mineral springs."
MR. FEN NO,
WE are sorry to learn that the Whtat hifift
has not yet ceased to be troublesome. COll
- damage has been done already to those
crops which were sowed early ; insomuch that
the farmers in some places have plowed up some
oftheir Wheat-fields and sowed Rye. The liif
cory of this animal is now so well understood,
that it is in the power of Farmers to avoid much
of its mifchief, by committing their feed to the
ground as late in the season as it will poflibly
bear. This willkfiep the infecft asyay until spring;
639
HESSIAN FLY
Ukso
and then if the land be rich and well manured,
vegetation will proceed so fact with the advance
of the warm season that the Wheat will outgrow
it. 1 he-le are matters of great importance, and
ought to be attended to by all friends to the agri
cultural interest. It is much to be feared the Fly
will never wholly leave our country, but remain
a perpetual obstacle to the raising of Wheat.—
But this idea, so far from discouraging, ought
rather to incite us to lome extraordinary exertion
to surmount the difficulty. One of our citizens,*
we are informed, hasfentto some of the Natural
iftsin Europe, specimens of the Heffian-FJy, that
it may be certainly decided whether the species
be new or not ; and whether like damage has
ever happened in that part of the globe from a
limilar cause.
* Dr. Mitchell. As appears by his Epiftola ad Prof. Wal
ker : " Nefcio certe an species nata vel nova fit; hoc tarnen tuie
" pe:fpicacias ct acumini illico patcbit. Plantas triiici foloquam
" vis feraci vigentes, faipe pene necavit hocce diium animal, fa
" pius penitus abfumpfir. Calamitas inde orta ita agricolas affe
" cit, ut qui olim modios centenos vendere foliti funt, vix aut
" ne vix quidem hodie farra in ufum familia: quotidianum me
tere qu-anr. Rus itaque trifte, arva nuda, incol<e egeni. Pau
" pertatis species, pecuna hifce caufis deficicnte, übique appar
" ens. yEre alieno populus, et domi et foras opp eflus."--
Also, from his answer to Monsieur D'Antie, who had writteu
to him from Paris for information about American Infe&s : 41 Je
*' vous fais palTer l'infefte, qui pour plufieurs annees a detruue
" nos moifTons, e'eft une petite mauche, qui met fes oeufs dans
" l'herbe du troment, ct ne demcure jamais dans les graines,
And likewi-fe, from his'communication to the President of the
Roval Society : " Thus by the two-fold operation ot Erojion and
" Prejfuie have our harvrftsbeenmiferably deilroyed for a uumb< r
" of years. You now learn how unfounded were the apprehen
" Hons entertained by government about importing this Infect in
14 the grain. A like feartulnefs prevailed in Canada during the
" winter j;3g, when during a fcarcityofbread.com in the pru
" vince ol Quebec, Lord Dorchester earneftlyenquired, Whe
" ther there was any danger of iutroducing the Infect in the
" Wheat brought from the States of New-York and Vcrmon., to
" which I replied, that mod certainly there wasno danger."
LETTER
From a refpcflablc commercial houfc in L* Orient to a gertfemanin Bojlon,
SIR,
" ' I ""HE cffcft of our late glorious revolution, operating on
JL commcrce as well as politicks, and some material changes
having already taken place inconsequence, we embraccthisas a ia
vourable moment to renew our a/pe&s, and acknowledgments, to
our correspondents at large, when we can have any interellinT
information to give them, as well conceining the general trade
of the kingdom, as what relates to this port in particular, whose
luperior advantages justly entitle it to a preference over others,
from its vicinity to the main ocean, the convenience and fafetv
of its harbour, and the trifling charges vessels are liable to on
entiy, as mentioned in our price current which we annex tor
your information and government.
" The changes we have to announce are,
t: The fuppreftion of our East-India company,
" The abolkion of the freedom of this port, and,
" The emiflion of government notes.
u The firftmet with much oppolition, but was notwithftandi/ig
decrecd ; so that the trade to India is now laid open, to the ge
neral benefit of the nation, and we think the particular advan
tage of this town, which, joining to its other conveniences, that
ot having the proper warehouses and offices completely eftablifli
ed, and the face of that trade already turned towards it must com
mand a preft ranee, and continue the fixed mart for the sale of
East-India goods, which we presume will be more reaTonable in
future than heretofore.
" The abolition of the freedom of this port met with less op
position, as it wasameafure fought for by the inhabitants, who
tound it only fcrved as an encouragement to fmugling, to the pre
judice ofthe fair trader,whofc intercourse with the icftofthe king
dom was rtftrained, as no article that once cams into the town,
could return by land, or be received at any other of our ports,
without paying duties, as though the town were foreign ; and here
wc must observe, left an idea Ihould go abroad to the contrary,
that the taking away this freedom does not prejudice our trade
with America, your resident at our court was consulted on the bu
fmef-, and nothing being altered refpe£ting the treaty of 1787, our
intercourse with you will be carried on asufual, without any in
creafc of duties or charges, the only difference is the goods must
now be as it were bonded.
" The emiflion of government notes, or aflignats as they are
called, was to supply the want of the circulation of specie, which
was cither hoarded up by the monied people, or sent out of the
kingdom from interested motives, to the great prejudice and even
stagnation of trade ; the amount is limited to four hundred mil
lions of livres, and they are so much preferable to bank notes,
that they bear interest at the rate of 3 per ceut. per ann. are equal
ly transferable, being payable to bearer, and are guaranteed by,
and to be paid from, a property of above eight hundred millions,
late belonging to the clergy, and which is now on sale.
" Our illustrious national assembly, to perfect the great work
it has begun, has many other improvements in agitation, one in
particular, to fix a common standard for weights and mealure*,
in which the co-operation of England is fought for ; but these
are the most interesting changes that have as yet taken place;
there is however another in the reftri&ions they laboured under,
being taken off the tanneries ; soap and starch manufattories,
which though, seemingly of little consequence to you, we men
tion, in the hope that it may encreafe our connexions with your
Stales, by opening a new branch of commcrce, in the exportation
of bark, green hides, tallow and kelp, if those articles abound
with you ; it. may also encreafe the conlumption ot filh oil, which,
as well as whale, are at prcfent of very flow demand, owing to
the quantities imported last season, and every port being over
flocked : whale bone is likewise flack from the fame but
pot and pearl aftieson the contrary are in high demarf<s, nor can
we get enough syr the confumntion; tobacco, rice, wheat, flour,
[Whole No. i/; 8.-,
L'Oriext, MAY 15, 1790,and sood ftiip timber arc also good articles here, and wc hope
next season your flax-feed will fell currently, as ciTiys have been
made this year, and the lalt; but youi provihons, pitch, tar, or
turpentine, have not as yet recove.td the dilrepute they tell into
by being badlv made up, very foul, and ihort in weight.
" Alter this detail wmch we hope will not bff unacceptable, it
only remains for us to exprels the ardent w"iHi we form, that m
this new arrangement of things, and from the regulations wnicn
we understand arc taking place in your conftituuon ; the reluit
may insure the freedom and happiness of each, and perfectly la
ment the union of both countries ; in this w> . , and one toi your
profpeiity, we remain truly and lincerfly,
Your obedient humble servants, See.
BRUSSELS, Augull it
THE following letter has been received by the Supreme 8.-igic
Congrefi, from commandant Schipplacken, from Hatltce,
the Bth instant.
Gentlemen, . . |
I have the honor to acquaiut von, that having lelt Liege yclt<- r- ,
day at eleven in the forenoon with a body of 1500 men, we took
the town of Herve about half pail seven in the evening, where wc
found our three pieces of cannon, ch. lis, tents, baggage,
I used all the means in my power to prcvcnt/pslla.jc and ditor
der, but they proved abortivf, owing to the !onj[ reimance made
by the Auftrians,and that of fcvtral thouland peafantsand citizens,
who fired at us from the windows, and behind hedges.
Our loss in killed is not very considerable ; but in wounded a
great many. We have had the misfortune to lose the brave lieu
tenant colonel de Reftairig, who was killed by a musket fn >t about
three-quarters of a league from the :ov. n, fired from the houle o.
a peasant, to which we set fire. What contributed molt to the
cataflrophe of the day was, the inhabitants havingle.t their houks,
the soldiers forccd them to discover those who fired on thewi, and
who, on being found, became objects ol their fury.
I am 8c:.
LONDON, August 31
Letters from the continent advise that the wheat, bailey, and
rice harvests, in the fouthem provinces of Sp.iin and pjitu -al
have proved abundant and were well got in about the 241b of July.
The olives, dates, oranges, lemons n gi«pes> ;md other autumnal
fruits, were in good order, and promise a plentiful crop.—T he
silk harvest, as itis called, in the worm provinces ol A.idalulin,
Mercia, Valencia, and thediftrict ot La Mancha, was rather lhort
owing to the heavy rains that prevailed, with a (IrongS. \V . wind,
during the working months, whereby a prodigious numbei ot
worms perished. The provision, of all kinds were in general
plentiful, and consequently cheap, oais excepted, tor which there
was a very smart demand at moll of the ports on the Mediter-
ranean.
The dutch fleet, which was lately at Spithead, is now anchor
ed in the Texel. This intelligence was broughtto Portlmouth by
a brig which lett Holland a lew days since.
The French, with their usual activity, arc taking the molt ef
fectual means of spreading over Europe the knowledge neci-fory
to inspire their fellow-creatures with a just sense ol their rank.
French books and papers are piofcribed in every delpotic coun
try. N'lmporte! They have manufactured many thousands ol
handkerchiefs, on which they have primed in all European lan
guages, the declaration of the rights of man, and these handker
chiefs they lent to the fair at Frankfort, the great mart ot Ger
many, and to which the chapmen of all countries come. I hey
weie bought up with avidity, and aie already d per ted over Eu
rope.
The National Aflembly of France have emitted a paper medium,
to the amount of 400,000,000 livres, and funded it on the confis
cated property of the clergy.
M. d'Orleans loses by the decree of France, four millions two
hundred thousand livres per annum a sum almost equal to
ioo,oool. iterl.
BOSTON, October 12
Capt. Russel, in the fliip William, from Pe
terlburgh, put into Falmouth, in England, which
place he left the 9th of September, at which time
the press was as violent as ever, four of his men
■were pressed on board of an EngHfli frigate, but
he got them off again. The Captain of the En
glilh frigate informed him that war mult una
voidably take place very soon. It was said that
the English fleet was very poorly manned, they
having been obliged to take the tag rag of crea
tion in order to get their ships at lea.
From the " "journal de Libsrte," of Aug. 29th,
we have extracted the following paragraph :—
PARIS,Augult 29.
THE horizon, as we have always feared, is
still more and more obscured.—Lord Govver,
the Englifli Ambvdludor, dispatched, the day be
fore yelterday, Mr. Shaw, one of the cabinet mes
sengers, with official dispatches for London,
Yelterday morning he sent Mr. Broughton, ano
ther extraordinary meflenger, and 011 the evening
the departure of a third was expecfted. His
Lordship spent all Friday night in preparing dis
patches with his Secretaries. We (hall soon
know, by the result of tliefe dispatches, whether
England has meant all along toquarrel with us ;
For there is certainly nothing in the decree rela
tive to Spain, which can furnWh her with any
reasonable pretence for a quarrel now. We fur
ther add, that no Englishman, who thinks, can
forbear applauding it ; for every independent
nation has, without doubt, the right to watch
overits own welfare and defence.
FEDERAL REPRESENTATIVES.
CONNECTICUT.
Hon. Roger Shtrman, 2969 votes. *Fierpout Ed
■wards, 2239. * James Hillboufe, 203 5. Jonathan
Sturgefs, 1730. Jonathan Trumbull, Esquires, 1720.
[These gentlemen having the highelt number of
votes of the 12 candidates, are chosen. The
highest number of votes for the unfuccefsful can
didates, was for Mr. Reeve, 1672, the lowed, Mr.
Davenport, 786. * New members, vice Hon.
Meflrs. IV adf-morth and Huntington.
RHODE.ISLAND,
Six candidates there at e, viz. Hon. Mr. Bourne,
(the present Reprefcntative) Mefli s. P. Mumford,
Cotn(lock, James Sheldon, Stephen Arnold, and
I'eleg Arnold. The votes in Newport, were, for
Mr. Mumford 80. Mr. Com/lock 1. We have since
heard, that the Hon. Mr* Bourne, i 3 re eleifted.
Accounts from Plymouth, &c. (Mr. Partridge s
dillriA) inform us, tiat there is not a choice or
Federal Representative in that district ; and chat
Sherjafhub Bourn and fhomas Davis, Esquires, an
the highest on the poll.
HARTFORD, Otfober 25-
Last Friday, the circuit court, for the diltrn.
of Connecticut, was opened in this city. "j
chief juttice, in his charge to the^grar id J u, >'' , e
and commented on the law of the Unitec
for defining and punilhing certain crimes. In tne
course of his address, he made maw pointed ie
marks upon the nature of certain offences,and the
duty of the grand jury ; and delivered the whole
with elegant iimplUity and precihon. The coui t
found business fufficient to detain them a part ot
the present week. .
The following gentlemen were admitted attor
neys and councillors : William Judd, John Trum
bull, Thomas T. Seymour, Jonathan Brace, JoJbua
Coil, Sylveller Gilbert, Will,am Mofely Alexander
Wolcetl, Noah Webjler, juti. Enoch Perkins,Ephratm
Root, John Williams, Thomas Chejler, John Smith,
and Samuel Whit tie fey, Esquires.
Elizabeth (Hagcrs) Town,.(M). Oct. 21.
YESTERDAY afternoon, at 2 o'clock, the ap
proach of the President of the United States
was announced in this town, when (to the gieat
honor of the troop) the company of Light Horse,
under the command of Capt. Davis, paraded
splendidly equipped, in a few minutes, and with
the principal gentlemen,met the illustrious ltraii
ger three miles front town, and escorted him to
its environs, where they were met by that beau
tiful and martial like company of infantry, com
manded by Capt. On. He was then conducted
through the main street, (the bells ringing)
amidst the welcome applauses of its grateful in
habitants, to Mr. Bel'.zhoover s Tavern.
In the evening the town was illuminated, bon
fires appeared in all quarters, and every public
deraonftratioM of joy was exhibited 011 the happ'
occasion.
An elegant lupper was prepared by direction,
of which the President and principal inhabitants
partook ; at the close of which a number of toads
were drank, accompanied with a discharge of ar
tillery and a volley of mufquetry to each.
The whole scene ofperfeift plea Cure, good hu
mor, fatisfa&ion, and hilarity terminated before
ten o'clock, in the greatell: order.
This morning at seven o'clock, our renowned
chief bade us an affectionate adieu—and set out
for Williams-port, in order to take his paflage
down that noble river (the American Thames)
which will be proud to waft him home.
The following ADDRESS -was prefentcd.
To THE PRESIDENT oftlie UNITED STATES,
SIR,
WE the inhabitants of Elizabethtown and its
vicinity, being deeply iroprefled with your
illustrious character, and sensibly awake to your
resplendent and innumerable virtues, hail you a
hearty welcome !
We are happy to find, that notwithstanding
your perils, toils, and guardianship, you are itill
able to grant us this firlfr, this greatest of all fa
vors—your prefsnce
We felicitate ourfclves on your exploring our
country—and as you already reignin our hearts,
fowe fhouldthink ourselves doubly blefled, could
we have the honor to be included within your
more especial command and jurifdicftion—within
the grand centre of virtues.
Our beloved Chief ! Be pleased to accept our
most grateful thanks for this honor conferred on
us. And may thedifpofer ofall things lengthen
out your days, so that you may behold with fatis
faiflion, the virtue and prosperity of the people
whom you have made free. And when you come
to close the lalt volume of your illuftriousacftions,
may you be crowned with a crown not made
with liands
WILLIAM LEE,
(In belialf of the whole.
Elizabtthtovin, Gch 20, 1 790.
The President was f leafed to return the following
Aufwer.
To the INHABITANTS ot ELIZABETHTOWN
and its VICINITY
Gentlemen,
THE cordial welcome, which you give me to
Elizabeth Town, and the very flattering ex
preflions of regard, contained in your address,
claim and receive my grateful and sincere ac
knowledgements
~ • O " "
Estimating, as I do, the affediion and efteeni of
my fellosv-citizens, and conscious that my best
pretention to their approbation is founded in an
earned endeavour faith Fully todifcharge the du
ties which have been affigued me, I cannot better
reply to their confidence than by alluring them
that the fame impartiality, which has heretofore
directed, will continue to govern iriy conduift in
the execution of public trulls.
I offer sincere wilhes for your temporal happi
ness and future felicity.
630
THOMAS SPRIGG,
HENIIY SHRYOCK,
G. WASHINGTON
VTHE readers of the Loinmuiu.' dentine
for font time pafl been entertained with the l "f"
thus of a writer, whose Ejfay; are Sl,t!t, f d „ a ,; 0 ~;
Yankee The following judicious U.Je '
on Wit, or " The Arc of Joking, ore e\l>
from the ninth number of that paper. ]
THE ART OK JOKING
NOBODY is affronted at being called a wit >
notwithstanding, an injudicious o
wit is apt to affront others. It is inherent J 1 .*' I'*1'*
man nature to Itrive for admiration ; and iej.
love will often triumph over prudence. 1 lie vanity
of exhibiting fine talents is strongly marked n
moil characters ; but many had rather be com
pliiuented for the pofleilion of wit and humo.y
than for the mote excellent qualifications of wil
dom and virtue. This preposterous and 'i»ac
countable vanity, is the eonftant harbinger oflll
- A pcrfo'n, who is ambitious of being
remarked for brilliant atchievements and ilafhy
feats, will not liefitate, in the warmth of his f.i
vorite, hobby horlical pursuit, to risk the loss of
his bell friend, to gain the frivolous honor ol
[peaking a j'lke. . . ..
Whenever the fe.irch after wit leads us into c.j
feCiation, we become insupportable to the patience
of all companies. A man, conscious he deserves
applause, who paufesjn proper places of his con
versation, to bepraifed, will be frequently dilap
painted in the approbation of men of sense.
Wit is at no time more shocking than when
united with wickedtiefs. This detellable combi*
nation, when it is sent into the world under the
denomination of Jluuder, is oftenfive to delicacy,
and subversive ot morals. If verbal indifci etion
is without palliation, written scandal can surely
have no excuse In the paroxysm of anger, a fai
caftic expreflion may be overlooked by tnole who
consider the imperfection ol our natures, but
he who with deliberation, and premeditated mi
■ lice, wantonly writes and publiflies his friend's
deformities and weaknefles, real or supposed, de
serves less clemency than him who errs through
palfion.
MR. FEN NO,
I HAVE read with great pleasure the article
which has for sometime pall appeared in
Gazette of the United States, under the title of
" Difconrfts on Davila." The History of France,
written by this celebrated Italian, has never fall
en into my hands ; I have, however, seen it men
tioned by several writers of eminence, as a mas
terly performance. The moil: interesting peri
od of the affairs of France, I find, is comprized in
this history—viz. The time of the civil wars oc
casioned by the reformation. It is an old obser
vation, " that we reason best from experience."
Every event that has been hitherto detailed by
the author of the Discourses, confirms the lead'ng
sentiment of the writer, and Ihews how deplora«
ble is the condition of mankind, without that
dernier resort of freedom, a free constituti
on, when underthecontroul of despotism, aristo
cracy, or powerful factious leaders of a party.
The natural, irrefragable truths deducible from
the reflections of this nervous and independent
writer, should inspire the free citizens ofthisrif
ing republic, with the most profound veneration
for, and attachment to the constitution of the
United States, which while it holds out the moil
powerful incitements lo a patriotic line of con
duct, secures the equal rights of all ; and by a
happy adoption of the tripple balance, guards and
protects us from the tyranny of the one the few, or
| th emanj.
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CENT IN EL.
Mr. Rgsse ll ,
You arc rcqucjlcd to publijK the jolio wing in the Cevtincl.
Your , s,£s'c. E. D.
WE the fubferihers feel ourselves in duty bound thus public
ly to acknowledge for ourselves, and in bchalt of the mer
cantile and Maritime imereflof these United Stales, the particular
obligations we and they, in general, arc under to Mr. JOHN"
BROWN CUTTING, a citizen of America now in London, for
his unwearied applications and constant luccefs, in ifFcCtiug the re
leale of all the American Seamen, who were fullering by an in
difcrimin.ite press, whichexifted in all the ports of Great-Britain,
from the month ol Apii 1, until the time of our departure, and we
doubt not that the other mailers ot American ships, will be equal
ly ready to make known the grateful sense we all entcitained of
Mr. Cutting's fritndlhip.
TRISTRAM BARNARD,
EDWARD DAVIS,
CHARLES C. RUSSELL,
23,1789.
From Mr. T. ALLEN's Marine Journal.
Navigators k;ep a good look out.
DUE S.S. W. $W. seven miles dillant front
the S.W. Point of Sand-Key, ofFTurks Iflancl
liesa ledgeof rocks of about two hundred yards
in length, and one hundred in breadth, hitherto
unknown: Upon the fhoaleft part of which ia
but seven feet water—from thence the depth is
irregular, varying greatly every caftof the lead.
Thole rocks are not discoverable by the lead rip
or breaking ot thefea, hence they become more
dangerous and require a good look out, by keep
ing theland bearing, to avoid them by thecourfe
above. Perhaps this account will not at firft be
credited by old navigators ; indeed it is altonifh
ingthat to many hundreds of veflels yearlv pas,
li:)g this pailage, that it fhoukl never have been
RICHARD S. TfBBITTS,
SAMUEL CALDER.
FITZWILLM. SARGEANT*known before. To remove any doubts that may [
arise refjpedting the truth of fhis allertion,! lhall
j alt note, that on the r4th Sept. lad, I law the
Britifii fliip Endymion of 44 guns laying upon
lier beam ends upon thole rocks, bearing N» W.
by W. Sand-Key then bearing N. 1 W. 1 judged
five leagues diltant. 1 run in between the lhip
and the key, where the pallage is late, and oce
an water for five miles between the locks and
the land. The bearings and distance of rhofe
rocks I received from the failing matter of the
fiiip, who has taken an accurate survey of the
lame. The Edvmion It ruck upon those rocks at
half pad Bin the morning, clear weather : She
was from Jamaica bound to Turks-llland with
cannon, commanded by Lieut. Daniel Woodriff
"(the Captain lick in Jamaica) and had 011
board a good pilot. As lives and property of
mariners are dependant in a great measure upon
the knowledge ofreeis and ihoals, I am induced
to give this early publication,flatteringinyfelf it
will soon be confirmed to the fatisfaction of the
doubtful. B. Snovj.
The Tablet No. 149.
" Such causes exijl in the United States es are favor-
able to a prosperous and permanent government."
r T"'HK long conceited quellion, whether men can
J- govern themflves, is now fairly brought to
the celt of an experiment. From present appear
ances, there is goo.«l renlbn to expciit the point
will he so fettled, as to eltablilh the affirmative
of the queltion. Are not the people of the Uni
ted States in the adtual enjoyment of a free, and
energetic Itate of government ? And may they
not, in the molt proper fenfeof expreilions,befaid
to vet n tbewjehes ? What circuniftances can be
di'cerned, that threaten to dimirtilh either the
energy or the freedom of our government ? Is
11 L the ftateof society fucli, as to include the ef
femi Imperials for forming thole civil institu
tions which will continue long, because there can
never exiit areal'on ora motive for altering them ?
It may be well to enquire, what can have indu
ced so many wife legiilators to doubt the practi
cability of a J"elf -governed people.
The two main objections againfl: conceding to
the point in question are ; fiiltly, that the gener
al character of human nature does not authorise
Juch a concession ; and secondly, that the whole
concurrence of hiitorical teftiinony contradi<fts
the idea, that a people will continue to govern
themlelves, in a cool, a reasonable, and eiiicient
manner. I will make no particular remarks upon
the firft of tliefc objections, because the advocates
of it collecfi theirgeneral notions of human nature
from hiitorical facfts,and therefore both objec'tions
do, in reality, form but one
Politicians give an air of certainty to their in
ferences, when they attempt to prove that men
always vittjl be, exaiflly what they always have
beiu. It will be asked, that as no people ever
•wire found, who, properly speaking, did govern
themselves, why may it not be inferred that no
fiich ever uu/l exiftThe fallacy oftbe inference
proceeds from its being extended too far. The
examples that are adducedin support ofthe prin
ciple fhrtuld only be applied to the proof of cases
fmiilar to themselves. A difference in circuni
itances may counteract all the force that is inten
ded to be derived from the comparison. For in
stance, a people who were fnddenly delivered
from a longeltabliflied despotism, and totally ex
onerated from a despot, would neverthelels, by
bad management, soon reduce themselves back to
(despotism. Such an event would authorise an 111 -
ierence, that some other people, exactly so fitua
red, would be in danger of alike dil'alVer. But I
itfurniflies no argument that such a description j
of men, as inhabit the United States, cannot pre
serve themselves from despotism. An ignorant,
servile people cannot govern themselves, because
they have neither knowledge not spirit adequate
to such a pnrpof'e. A turbulent warlike people
will not govern themselves, because their love of
plunder and confufion i* superior to their love of
order and protection. They can neither feel it
to be their interest, nor conceive it to be their
<lnty to encourage mild and equitable institutions.
But it is far otherwise with rel'pecft to a nation,
com po fed of traders, mechanics, and planters, who
have a predilection for their several occupations ;
whose views and competitions generally relate to
private objects of business ; and whose personal
prosperity is perceived to be efientially blended
■with that of the government. When a man, by
lionett industry, has acquired property, _he feels
li solicitude about the protection of it. Why
fiwji should he not be an enemy to faCtion, and to
,/every other cause that really threatens to dissipate
the maxims, and defeat the operations of law and
justice ? The people of the United States will
jiot easily be beguiled into a bad choice of rulers,
because the public opinion is so well informed as
to be competent to decide upo.i the merit of cha
racters ; and it will be found, that the great mass
of individuals know too well what promotes their
own interest and fafety, not to reprobate the idea
of forming alegiflature of weakand wicked men.
Since the new government commenced its ea
reer, it is obvious to the eye of a molt careless 1
obfervcr, that the circumflances as well as the
character cf our inhabitant have meliorated,
l'lie talents discovered in the various executive
departments, and the Confidence which a judici
ous administration has inspired in the public
mind, are conspicuous proofs that an enlightened
people will be bell l'atisfied, when they are belt
governed. It can never be the intereftofone
.branch oftlie community, in a free country, to
delfroy the prosperity of another , nor can the
rich derive such durable advantage over the
poor, by oppreiiive laws, as by thole that are inild
and equitable. When rulers learn that their dig
niiy confiits not in being arbitrary and severe,
they will have 110 motive to aff'ume those attrocious
qualities. When citizens are habituated to the
idea, that their fafety is greater in obeying than
iji opposing the laws, few men will be i'o foolifh
orperverfe, as to join in pernicious combinations
againit the government. (To be continued.)
Philadelphia, Nov. 5.
WAR ONCE MORE!
A letter was received by a gentleman in this city
last Evening, from Alexandria, wh:ch informs that a
vcfp'/ had arrived at Rappahannock, in 22 days from
England, and brought an account that W AR. had been
declared by Great Britain against Spain.
By accounts from the eastward, we learn that
the Spaniih fleet of 36 fail of the line, returned
to the port of Cadiz the 9-th September, after a
cruise of fix weeks.
The lalt European intelligence leaves us in
doubt respecting the affairs of the Brabant Patri
ots —the late convention between Aultria and
Pruflia, bears a inoft inauspicious alpeCt 011 their
affairs.
We have leen some French papers of the month
of August ; they contain in fubltance the articles
which have appeared in the English papers, and
which have been transcribed into the American
Gazettes—some of them contain very bold Itric
tures 011 the trailfa<ftions of the National Aflein
bly ; these are denominatedArilVocratic Gazettes.
The King of Hungary, by his effecting a peace
for his diftrefled dominions, proves hiinfelf to be
both a great and good man. Not great by wading
through seas of blood and scenes of devaluation,
to the accomplishment of some trivial object of
ambition, or to gratify the feliilh feelings of re
feutment and revenge ;but from having through
generous concession and manly negociation, re-
Itored the bleflings of peace to his impoverilhed
and depopulated country.—How are the diftin
guilhed butchers of the human race obscured by
themild lultreof humanity ? Fed. Caz.
" In England,every polhble encouragement has
been given to the woolen manufacture ; in Ire
land, to the linen ; in France, to those of silk, ot
cottons, of woollens, and almoll all others which
can furnilhlabor to her indultrious artizans : ma
ny have not only been patronized, but carried on
at the expence of government: in these ways luc
cefs has been ensured."
Capt. Jones, of the Goliah, who arrived at New-York on
Thursday, palled through a Britilh fleet of 30 fail of the line, 6.
frigates and 4 cutters, on the 4th September, 'Siait bearing N. E.
14 leagues, [landing up Channel : he spoke with one ot the fleet,
and was informed they had not seen the Spaniards. Me after
wards spoke witii a brig from Gibraltar, who allured nun that it
was all peace.
By Capr. Ward, who arrived at Boston the 23d inft. from Mar
tinique, we learn, ihat the commotions which have so long agita
ted that island have produced a melancholly fcenc of human car
nage. Our readers will recoiled; that there arc two implacable
parties in that Island. Count Dainas (the Governor.) the princi
pal planters, the King's troop?, and tree mulattecs, form one
party which is denominated the Royalists ; the other party is
formed of the inhabitants ot Sr. Pierre, and some ot Fort Royal,
who arc called the Revolutionist.*. In a former tumult, the latter
executed f veral mulattoes ; which occasioned the expedition
againflSt. Pierre, commanded by Count Damas, and theVifcount
de POl teves Gienv The ringleaders of the mob who murdered the
mulattoes, were apprehended —some were committed to goal, and
others sent to Fiance.and tranquility wasthere by restored for a time.
Since then the St. Pierre Revolutionijls have demanded of the Go
vernor, that the prisoners in goal mould be liberated, the suits
commenced against those sent to France, stopped, the Mulattoes
disarmed, and Fort Bourbon, put into their possession. fhefe the
1 Governor could not comply with ; but the Revolution Jls found
means to get pblltflion of Fort Bourbon, on which the Governor
and his officers retired to Gourmon, where the Airembly was fit
ting ; and the St. Pierre people fitted out 5 cutters, to prevent fup
plics going to that part of the island. The Governor also took
meafurcs to flop all fupplics for the Revolutionijls in Fort Bourbon 1
I n consequence of which the garnfon were obliged to fend out
large parties to colled fubfiflcnce from the Plantations: One of
these parties, on a marauding expedition, was attacked by the mu
lattoes and negroes (whom the planters had armed so 1* the protec
tion of their property) and bein <; overpowed by numbers, were
obliged to retreat to a cane field—to this the negroes, See. imme
diately fetfire, and as the Revolutionijls issued therefrom, maflacred
ihem without diftindioa to the number ot 784.; with the loss of
only 5 or 6—Capt. Ward had the account ot the numbers killed,
from officers who counted the dead bodies. 1 lie planters have
since folemnlv sworn, never to carrv any more of their produce
to the market of St. Pierre; and the' Count Damas was preparing
for an expedition against that city, which he was determined to
bring to submission, or reduce to afties. In this unhappy situatiOn
was the island, when Capt. Ward left it.
Thomas Chittenton, Esq. is elected governor of
the Hate of Vermont, vice his Excellency Gov.
Robinson.
Of the three National Representatives for the
state of New-Hampfhi re, the Hon, Samuel L:z>er
more only is eledted. Nicholas Oilman and Jere
miah, Smith, Efq'rs. are the two next highest can
didates.
631
Hon. William r Senator oftlie Uni
ted Stales, is elected Governor of" the State of
New Jersey by the Legislature of laid State.
I lie Hon. Oliver Ellfwortl:, is re-elei r ted a Sena
tor of the United States, by the legislature of Con
necticut.
F.xtraß of a letter from New-York, 08. I 790.
I was this day informed that the Secretary o:
the Treasury has negociated a loan in Holland
for nearlytwo millions of dollars pursuant to the
late ad of Congrel's, on advantageous terms.
The negotiation of a loan with the wary Hol
landers, 011 favorable terms, llrongly indicates
that the fundsof the United States are confide:-
ed in Europe as an eligible depotituniof property.
Friday morning lalt, about three o'clock, the
Powder-Mill, near Frankford, belonging to Mr.
Joseph J. Miller, of this city, ble-.v up —There
was about one ton of Powder in the Mill.
Sunday morninglalt, about 4o'clock the Brew-
Houfeot Mr. Hare, in the Northern Liberties of
this city, wasdifcovered to be on fire ; and not*
withstanding the utmolt exertions of the citizens,
the greatest part of it was burnt.
Agriculture and manufactures appear to be ri
finginthe eltimationof the people of the United
States, and with great reason—they form the
furell balls ofindependencc, and eventually prove
the source of the greatelt profit:—Commerce i s
little better than mere (peculation—and very fel.
dom realizes to the adventurer his high-raised
expectations. It has lately been aflerted in the
newspapers of the United States,that one Farmer
in Maryland fold from his laltcrop, twelve thou
sand bushels of Wheat : What commercial fpecu
laiion, on a capital equal to the whole probable
colt of this Wheat, would be equally productive
on the raoft favorable calculation .' -rtnd with res
pect to Manufactures, there can be little doubt
that a large capital can be employed in several
fpeciesofthe coarser kind, to much greater ad
vantage than in al molt any mercantile enterprise.
Duck of all kinds is now manufactured in the
United States—and it li.is been said that coarse
Woolens can be made and fold at a lower rate
than they can be imported.
The security of property is one principal ob
ject of government : Contrail the present situa
tion of the United States, in this particular, with
that immediately preceding the adoption of the
New Constitution, and how striking the differ
ence ! This conscious security, which is indu
ced upon every citizen through the influence of
the government, has diffufed a new face over our
affairs, and has called into operation the dormant
funds of individuals, in fucli manner as to pro
duce an influx of business in every branch, that
has been productive of more solid profit to the
Union at large, than perhaps ten times the a
mount of the expences of the general govern-
me nt
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
Final Settlements 12f. a 12\fi.
Indents "J. a ij'i.
New Loan, 6 pr. Cents -few at Market, about \\J.
LATEST ARRIVALS AT THIS PORT.
Schooner Dolphin, Williams, (M. C.) 10 days.
Minerva, Litchfield, do. 7
Sloop Friendship, Beaks, St. Croix, 24
Richmond, Block, Virginia, 9
Mtllia, Spicer, (N. C ) 10.
gC?' SUBSCRIBERS in the City and State of
New-York—and to the Eajiward as far as Boflon t
will plea f: to pay their arrearages to Mr. P. YVetmore,
at the Pofl-Gffice, New-York—who will also receive
fubferiptions jor the Gazette.
On MONDAY the firfl infl. was publifiled,
By CAREY, STEWAR T, and Co
The American Museum,
For OCTOBER, 1790.
CONTAINING as usual, a variety of original and
imerelting ESSAYS, in prole and verse.
Improvements and Additions to Mr. Bowen's
Exhibition of Wax-Work,
HIS Excellency Benjamin Franklin, Esq. A Philadelph'ian
Beauty. Peace, (an elegant figure) with her Olive Branch.
-Plenty, with wreaths of Flowers, basket of Fruit, See.
(£3T TICKETS, at ov.e quarter dollar, may be had at Mr.
James Bryson's, No. 4, Third, below Market Street ; where the
exhibition is open from 10 o'clock in the Morning, until 9 every Evening.
N. B. MINIATURE and PORTRAIT PAINTING
done at the fame place, on reasonable terms.
)hia, 08. 30, 1790.
Philadell
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,")
Ottober 14, 1790. J
NOTICE is hereby given, That Probofals will be received at
the Office of the Secretary of the Treasury, to the 30th day
of November next, inclusive, for the supply of all Rations which
may be required for the use of the United States, from thenrft day
of januarytothc thirty-6rft day of December 1791, both days in
clusive, at Spfingficld, in the State of Massachusetts, and the Poflof
Weft-Point) in the State of New-York.
The Rations to be supplied, are to consist of the following Arti
cles vi?. One pound of Bread or Flour,
One pound of Beef, or of a pound of Pork,
Half a jill of Rum, Brandy, or Whilky,
One quart of Salt,
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( IOQ ra^ons>
Two pounds of Soap, f
One pound of Candles, }
Separate Proposals may be made for each place, Specifying the
lowcft price pr. ration. -No credit is required.DISCOURSES ON DAVILA
Utitimquc regem, fua multitudo coulalutavcrat,
EACH party expected its own regent. The
ancient usage, and laws often confirmed by
the States, called of right to the function, the
King of Navarre. But what a reverie ? Whatan
appearance r To confide the person of the young
King, and the government of the kingdom to a
Prince fufpecfled of a conspiracy againlt the llate,
detained as a prisoner, and tile accomplice ofa
brother condemned to death !
The Cuifej had governed with fupreine autho
rity under the late King, and attempted the mod
violent meafurcs. By committing to them the
fame power, it was easy to follow the fame plan
ana execute the fame designs. But they were
not of the royal blood: how, commit to them
the tutorage ofa young King, contrary to all the
laws of the monarchy ? What envy, whatjealou
fy, what oppofiiions would they not have to con
tend with, from the nobility and the grandees,
who would be discontented with their power,and
afpireto despoil them of it ?
The States had fonietimes confided the regen
cy to the mothers of Kings, during their minori
ty, and in the present competition of so many
interests and contending faiftions, it was not pru
dent to place in other hands, the life of the King,
and the conservation of the state.—But a woman,
a ftr.anger, without partisans, and without sup
port, could (he maintain her ground again It two
Inch powerful factions, ready to support their
pretentions by the force of arms ? The Guises,
forefeeing what might easily happen, leagued
themselves with the Cardinal de Tournon, the
Duke de Nemours, the Mai (hals de Brtjfac and
Saint Andre > Sippisrc, governor of Orleans, and
many other great Lords, with whose influence
they reinforced their party, to defend their lives
and preserve their power. The King of Navarre,
conceiving happier hopes for the future, united,
more strictly than ever, with the Chatillons, the
Admiral and Cardinal, the Prince de Ptrcien,
Jamac, and many others of their partisans. He
secretly armed his friends, and dispatched couri
er after courier to the Constable. The two par
ties, having thus placed themselves in a posture
of defence, the whole court, and the troops di
vided themselves among thein, and even the de
puties of the States took their party, each one fol
lowing his paflions, his interest, or his principles.
Never did the neceflity of a third mediating
power, or an umpire, appear more plainly than
in this cafe. Had there been a conftituticw in
France, and had that constitution provided,
as it ought to have done, a third party, whose in
terest and duty it ihould have been to do jultice
to the other two, and every individual of each,
there would have been little danger to the peace,
liberty or happinefsof the people : for such an
intermediate authority, by doing justice to all
lides, would have been joined and supported by
the honest and virtuous of all fides, and by this
means would have controuled both parties by the
laws. But in this instance it seemed impoflible
to form a third party. Agitation and terror
reigned every where. It was dreaded every mo
ment that the friends of the King of Navarre,and
those of the Guises would come to blows. All
their measures and devices tended mutually to
destroy each other. Nature itfelf, however,
♦"ithout much aid from any conftitution,produced
an effedl. Although this unbridled ardor of rul
ing, inflamed as it was by private animosities,
hindered not the two parties from rendering pub
lickly their obedience to the King, this submissi
on had no other principle than a jealousy and mu
tual apprehension, that the one party would
snatch fromthe other the firlt place in thegovern
ment. This motive only, and not any refpedt
for a constitution, had made both parties eager
to appear to be the firft to do homage to Charles
the IXth : and on the day of the death of his
brother, he was unaniinoufly recognized as law
ful sovereign. This step tended insensibly to re
eftablilh order and authority. The Queen-mo
ther saw that it would not be fafe to trust the
life of her young children, nor the administrati
on of the state, to either of the parties, one of
which was extremely irritated and embittered,
and the other full of aflurance and haughty prc
tenfions, both well supported and ready to pro
ceed to the last extremities. She desired to con
tinue mistress of her children, and of the govern
ment of the state : She proposed, to this end, to
remain as a mediatrix ; and thought that the two
parties, unable to agree among themselves, and
neither being unable to triumph over the other,
they would both unite in her favor, and aban
don to her, by concert, an authority which the
opposition ofrheir competitors would hinderthem
from obtaining for '.hemfelves. We fee in this
instance that the tripple balance, is so established
by providence in the constitution of nature, that
01 dei, without it, can never be brought out of
anarchy confufion. The laws therefore
ihould eftablifli this equilibrium, as the dicftateof j
nature aud the ordinance of providence. J
{ To bt coitinucd.) I
No. XXIII
EDUCATION.
Extract from the Charge of the Hon. Chief Justice
Pickering, to the Grand Jwy, at the opening of
the Supreme Judicial Court, at Dover, Sept. 14.
THE reason given by So lo n for not providing
a law against parricides, might be ailigned
for not compelling a free ai>d enlightened peo
ple to keep lchooh, namely, that he thought it
iinpoflible any could be guilty of Co unnatural a
barbarity. One would conceive it equally unne
ceflary to make a law requiring a parent to love
his children; for the fame affecftion, duly regu
lated, would prompt hjm to provide for their
inftrudtion ; this is a duty every parent owes to
his offspring—every citizen to his country —and
every man to his God. If a child fliould be
brought up without a common education, it is
more than probable he must drudge through life,
become a servant to all—the dupe and sport
ofthe crafty and designing." Though knowledge
alone, may better the head more than the heart,
yet, without it, the lieart'cannot be good. An
early and good education is the molt probable
mean to preserve a child from the devious paths
of vice, and lead him in those of re&itude—
" Train up a child in the way he fliould go,
and when he is old he will not depart from it."
Having glanced at the natural and moral con
sequences of this cruel negletft, let us for a mo
ment advert to the political. If knowledge and
learning, generally difftifed through a commu
nity, be eflential to the preservation of a free go
vernment, then the want of these, must inevi
tably prove its deftriiiftion. Where ignorance
prevails, tyranny triumphs; for the truth of
which we have the concurrent testimony of an
cient and modern history, confirmed by our own
observation. Can we then neglecft the education
of the rising generation, the hope of our land,
when their and our all, so greatly depends up
on it ? Let us rouse from our fupinenefs, and
emulate each other in promoting the means, and
cherishing the interest of literature ! Did Ame
rica everneed men of learning and knowledge
more than at the present juncture ! Or will the
period shortly arrive, when she will no longer
want such characters to fill the various depart
ments in the national or state government ?
MORAL SENTIMENTS.
VIRTUE is not the JoU qualification, but is a primary qualifi
cation for a good ruler. It is necellary in regard to the pre
sent adnitnillration of government : and it is no less neceirary in
regard to the virtue and happiness of the rising generation. If
we aid and encourage the promotion of a vicious citizen, what
ever talcnu he may pofTcfs, we are guilty of a kind of tieafon a
gainst the State, by committing it into hands, in which it cannot
fafely be trusted ; and we hasten corruption and ruin on those
who are to succeed us, by putting a kind of fanftion on vice and
holding up honor as its motive. As long is a free people bestow
honor with discretion, their government will be upholden in
righteousness, they will be faft-and happy under it, and their chil
dren will receive it pure from their hands. But if their elections
should become corrupt, and their appointments should be made
without regard to virtuous merit, they may fee their freedom ho
vering to depart : she breathes only in a puie atmosphere : a con
taminated air soon expels her. A corrupt and degenerate people
are unworthy of her smiles ; and they will not long enjoy them
IF I were to advise a young mm how he might rife to hon
or, one of my firft lcflTons would be, cultivate a modest
oimnionof yourself. There is not a more despicable charac
ter than an arrogant conceited youth. If you aflTume airs of felt
importance, you may be aflured of univerlal contempt. If in all
companies you engrofsthe conversation, obtrude your own opin
ion on those who are wiser than you, and treat their's with neg
lect; if you make yourfelf the fubjeft of your discourse, and re
peat, with felf-applaufe, what you have laid on I'uch an occasion,
how solidly you once confuted such a man, and how wittilv you
answered another, you uiay be pleafcd with the display as your
talents ; but you will pass with others only for an impertinent
coxcomb. I have heard it remarked of Doaor Franklin, that in
conversation he foldom appeared confident of his Own opinion,
or directly contradi&ed the opinion of any in the company. He
fuggeftcd his sentiments by way of enquiry ; and while he was
capable ot inftrufting, seemed to fuppofc all better informed than
htmlelf. He communicated his thoughts without apparent de
sign. He seemed to aim at his own inlormation.
(American Mercury.)
The late Dr. James Malone's Recife for a cold, which be mo/I
jtrenuoujly recommended.
' 1 a ' ar S e . ,ea " cu P full of linseed, two penny worth of
± It ck liquorice, and a quarter of a pound of fun raisins Put
these into two quarts of foft water, and let it simmer over a flow
fire till u is reduced to one ; then add to it a quarter of a pound
ot brown fugar-eandy powder, a table fpoonful of old rum, and
a table Ipoon full of the best white wine vinegar or lemon juice
Note. The rum and vinegar are best to be added only to the
quantity you are going immediately to take ; for, if it is put into
the whole, it is apt in a little time to grow flat.
Drink half a pint at going to bed, and take a little when the
cough is troublcfome.
This recipe generally cures the word of colds in two or three
days, and if taken in time may be said to be almost an infallible
remedy. It is a moil sovereign and balfamlc cordial for the
jungs, without the opening qualities which endanger frelh colds
ingoingout. It has been known to cure colds that have been al
molf lcttled in consumptions in less than three weeks.
CHARLESTON, (S. C.) Oft. ;8.
G'f CAUTION TO MARINERS.
THE CommiiUoners of Pilotage for the port of Charleston fS
C.)give not.ee, that a Wind Mi/I has lately been crested on the
the point o : Upt-Roman, which, at a distance, has the appearance
of a Light-Houle, and may have the effect to deceive ftraneers an
proachmg thecoaft, In falling in with the IV,ndMill, you muO
not come into less than seven fathoms water.-bringing it to bear
nrf ri l' VOU a re a hre.ftofthe point of Cap e . Roman Ihoal, and
and Ciiarlefton Ligln-lloufe then bears S. W. by W diftauct 12
league*. *
632
LONDON.
PHILADELPHIA, Oft, 30.
Exit ast of a letter from James Stimpfon, Esq. R ujjian Consul, at Gibral
tar, Augujl 30, 1790.
" By thisopportunity, I have thought well to forward a dii
patch for the President of the United States, committed to mv
care, and which I request you to forward. I trail it convsys a«
alTurance of peace towards you with the new Emperor of Moroc
co. Spain is the only nation wilh whom he has hitherto (hewn
any disposition to quarrel. He has demanded Ceuta, which has
been refufed him, and he is making preparations for bcfieging the
garrison ; an undertaking I am fatisfied he is by no means equal
to. An Amballador from Spain has been lying in Tangier iiay
these 16 days, with a very great present for the Emperor, but will
not land until he (hall agree to give up all prctcnlions to Ceuta,
which he has not yet done.
" The Portuguese squadron continues to be flationed here du
ring the summer months, for the purpose of preventing the Al
gerines from palling to the Westward, which we have reason to
believe they do effeflually. I continue firmlv of opinion that
you have but very little chancc of malting peace with Algiers,
during the present Dey's life. His death may, according to the
courle of nature be daily c<pe&ed. Inclosed I fend you a lift of
the 14 furvivir.g Americans at Algiers, on the gth la'ft month, fix
I find died ot the plague in '87 and '88. 1 have taken the liber
ty of writing The Prefidcnt some particulars nil the fubjeft."
" Prisoners names: Ship Dolphin, Cupt. O'Brien, Andrew Mont
gomery, Jacob Jenavier, William Patterfon, Philip Sloap, Peleg Lor
'ig, John Robertfon, James Hall : Schooner Mary, Capt. Stevens,
Alexander Forfytk, JamesCarhart, George Smith, John Gregory, and
James Hermeti."
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Sept. 28, 1 790.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be received atthe
Office ot the Secretary of the Treasury, until the 31ft day
of December next inclufive,for the building of a LIGHT HOUSE,
nearly of the di mentions proposed by the late Commiflioners of
Virginia and Maryland, upon the lot of land on Cape Henry, in
the County ot Princess Ann, and State of Virginia, lately ceded for
that purpose to the United States. It is desired, that the proposals
may leave the election, whether the building above the foundation
ftiall be of brick or ftojie, and as the cost and charges of those ma
terials vary, it is expc&ed, that a correfpondinj difference will be
made in the terms offered.
Ihe foundation of the Light-House is to be of stone, and funk
to the depth of thirteen feet below the water table, over the top of
which the pavement is to be laid. The diameter thereof is to b«
twenty seven /eel fix inches, with a vacancy of about nine feet in
the centre.
1 he diameter ofthe base is to be twenty fix feet, at which place
the thickness of the walls is to be fix feet. The height fro:n the
bottom of the water table to the top of the stone work is to be fc
venty two teet,where the diameter is to befixtcen feet fix inches,and
the thickness of the walls three feet. The form is to be an o&agon,
havtng three windows in the east, and four in the weft. If it be
built of brick, it is to be faced with the glassy. kind, if of stone, it
is to be faced with hewn or hammer-dreHcd stone.
On the top of the stone work is to be a floor of joifls, bedded
therein, planked over and covered with copper, extending about
twofccteiglit inches beyond the wall, thereby forming an eve,
w htch is to be finifhed with a cornicc, the whole having a descent
fiom the centre fufficient to throw off the water.
The lanthorn is to be supported J>y eight posts of wrought Iro»
of three inches square and twenty feet in length, ten feet of which
are to be wrought into the (lone wall on the inner part at each
cornei The diameter of it is to be ten feet, leaving a platform on
the oufide thereof of aboul fix feet in width. All the work above
tjsisto be of iron and copper. The janthotn is to be ten feet
high, having a semicircular roof of five feet more, with iron raft
ers covered with copper. The whole space between the posts sup
porting the lanthorn, is to be occupied by the sashes, which are
to be made of iron, each fafli is to have twenty-eight panes of
glass, twelve by fourteen inches. One of the sashes on the south
welt fide is to be hung with hinges for a door to go out upon the
platt >rm, from the outer part of which to the roof of the lanthorn
is to be a frame of iron covered with a net work of strong brafe
wire, to preserve the glass from injuries by hail and flights of
birds in the night. 5
The rafters of the lanthorn are to be well fattened to an iron
hoop, over which is a copper funnel, through which the smoke
may pais into a large copper ventilator in the form of a man's
head, capable of containing one hundred gallons. This head is to
u C ? VlO be turned by a la r?e vane on the spire above it,
p l. J venting the smoke may always be to the leeward.
Ight dormant ventilators of fix inchcs diameter are to be fixed
in the roof of the lanthorn.
A close stove is to be provided and fixed in the lanthorn, which
n, u° be £ urn,lhed Wlth lamps, each capable of containing fix
quarts, hung in two tiers over each other transversely. There are
to be fix flights of stairs to ascend to the lanthorn, the entrance to
m covcrcd with copper. The building is
of Hghtning 1 ™ tW ° condua °"' to secure ■' from the effects
i»A« ln,e u OU u fe is t0 be built for lhe deeper, twenty feet square,
with lXnfta^er haframCkitChC " ! thCWho!ct °
A vault for the storage and fafe keeping of the oil is to be built
len e r n a ,:? n l Cn,ent u d^ anCe ' ,welve ' eet widc ' a " d 'wentV
whfch'a (hed i f a " covered Wlth earth "r sand, over
ftrnn bebu,l: > and lt,st ° be furnithed with eight
hundfcd C^l| C C 'f SW ! lth C ° VerS ' cach ca P ablc °f containing tlo
door g ons of 011 - The entrance isto be secured by a strong
bc«peaed Urit L forthef,i,hful contra* wiU
r»c expected. Payments on account will be made at crooer ft
fr' ? S diffe lhe b l anC , C ,r" be completion r
or, it a luitable difference should be made in the terms ca(H wiM
be advanced for the purcliafe of materials and provifiom.
II Treasury Department, Sept. 20, 179®.
Tis hereby made known, that the following arrangement hae
sss ssSses s;;:z *•«-
partments, Indents of Interest, and Bi lso g f Old EmT
be receivable indifcriminatelv at the w j T W '"
miflioners of all the States Th* r. . and by 'he Coir,
ted this arrangement for the e fuu ' ,lon . of th « Checks hasdicta
impoliiions by forged or counterfeit CCUnt y °' th = public agamft
have been adopted from tl, f P a P cr > an d which theslaideta
of the bufinefsCerich t t^ t r ? me -r.° n - r,dcr - Mion '° r ' he cxecutl °"
applications from £ Hoi le "o' a « d dir P if
the Treafurv and of tl , P n Certificates ol the Rcgifter of
Army Accounts, and' of ComrrtfT and f C " m " lim " ncr °f
menis above mentioned -1 a ■ goners of the five DepaTt
fury - and if J C made ln the firll infla nce at the Trca
fica.es, and CcfLSlTb,' L ° a " ° ffi « Ce
ment ot Accounts in the refnefi' s 1 10ne ", ° r ' he ad j u(U
ner to the CommifTioncrs oH ' VC ' es ' are like man
were i(T uc d Trans'-.,,. cStatcs m wh ich they
the Proprietors of «: !S VCc r" °* CC