PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, MARKET.STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 55, of vol. ll.] Saturday, November 6, 1790.
Discourses on Davila.
No. XXIJI. — CONTINUED
Utrumque regem, fua muliitudo con!a!u:aven!
/CATHARINE hoped, that by conducting with
ability, the reins of the itatc would return
to her hands. She fir ft thought of making Cure
of the Princes of Lorrain. A negotiation so de
licate and thorny, ought not to be confided to any
but the ablest hands. The Oaeen, after having
cast her eyes on several perlbns, fixed them at
last on the IVfarihal de Saint AnSre, as the man of
the court the molt proper to assure her success.
She sent for him, and after several difcourfes,the
result was, that it would be impoliible to termi
nate the differences of the two parties, without
Cumuli and war, but by relaxing somewhat of
their pretentions, by ceding a part oil both fides,
and making the Queen the nrbitratrix of their
interest. J hat by this plan, the two parries,
without yielding one to the other, would appear,
from refpedt, and for the peace of the public, to
give way to the mother of their King, who lliould
hold the equilibrium between the Gufjs and the
Bourbons,
f lie Queen was a politician refined enough to
pretend ihat flie was indebted for rliis council to
the prudence of the Marftial, rather than that she
had fuggeft:-d it to hiin, which was the I'aCi.
The ,;n •!, jadging without paflion that this
P'"' j vv 1 ;, e very convenient to the slippery
a ioiib nation in which the Guifts Hood,
u: ,'j: ut negotiate with their party. Upon
th> p. opolltion which he made of it to the Duke
and Cai dinal, and which they brought into de]i
beration in an aflembly of their confidents; the
opinion of these, and even of the two brothers,
Weredivided. ihe Duke, who had more cauti
on and moderation than his brother, yielded to
the accommodation, which was to leave him in
possession of the governments and riches which
lie held frpm the liberality of the late Kings.
But the Cardinal more ambitious and mere vio
lent, rejetSed all compromises, and pretended
that they would preserve their power in the
fame degree, as they hadexercifed it under Fran
cis Id. Ihe fentimentof the Duke was approv
ed by the cardinal tie Tournon, the Marshals Brif
fac and Saint A'idrt, and above all by Sipiere, the
advicc of all which perfoiiages had a weight,
which accompanies an high reputation for pru
dence justly acquired. Al! judged it fufficient for
the Guifts to preserve their credit and honors,
and preserve theriifelves for circumstances more
favorable ; and the result they communicated to
the Queen by Saint Andre, and left to her the
choice of means the most proper to treat with
the King of Navarre.
There remained (till a greater obstacle to over
come : roappeafe the facftion of the discontented
Princes : an enterprize which many thought im
possible and chimerical : but the Queen, who
perfectly knew the characters and "lifpofitions
of the perlons with whom she had to treat, did
not delpair of obtaining her end. The King of
Navarre had for his principal confidents, Defcars
Gascon, and Lsoneourt, Biihop of Auxerre. Def
cars had a contracted genius and little experi
ence ; Leonoourt was a designing politician, but
folelyintent upon his own fortune. The Queen
secretly gained Both, by approaching each on his
weak fide. She dazzled Defeats with presents
andamufed him with specious reasonings. And
£he excited in the Biihop of Auxerre, hopes of ec
clesiastical benefices and dignities which he could
not easily obtain by the sole credit of the King of
Navarre. They both promifed,under the pretext
of giving faithful and sincere council to their
mailer, to favor the negotiations which tended to
bring the two parties together, and commit the
regency to the Queen mother.
The Dutchefs of Montpenftcr, carried the firft
proposals of accommodation. Her candor and
franknefs, had gained the confidence of the
Queen : and her taste for the new opinions, had
attached her to the King and Queen of Navarre.
In the progress of things, Carrouges and Lanfac,
Lords of cor.fummate prudence,entered insensibly
into this negotiation. By means of these persons
rheQueen proposed to the Kiag of Navarre three
conditions, i. To let at liberty all who had
been arrested for the conspiracy of Amboife, the
Prince of Condi, Madam dt Roye, and the Vidame
de Cbartres ; and to annul by the Parliament of
Paris, the sentence againlt the Prince. 2. To
create the King of Navarre, lieutenant-general of j
the kingdom, on condition that the Queen had
the t;tle and authority of regent. 3. so obtain
of the King of Spain the reftituion of Navarre.
The confidents of the King of Navarre, exagge
rated to him these advantages ; they represented
to hitu that the name of regent, a title without
reality, was but an empty and Ipecious found,for
which he would be abundantly recouipenfed by
the power and authority, which would be given
him over the provinces ; prerogatives in which
confided the effective governmsnt of the king
dom. That the glory of deliveringthe Prince of
Conde, by the humiliation of his enemies, joined
to the hope of re-establishing forever his lioufe,
in its original splendor, left him no room to he
firate. It is not a time, said thty, to Cornell with
rigor against enemies so powerful. You have to
combat the prejudices, which your enterprizes
against the ltare have excited. Why, upon the
brink of a precipice, do you indulge chimerical
hope£ deputies of the jlatcs. are almojl all, de
voted to the ivilt of the Qjieen and the Guises, whv
have chosen them at their pleasure and gained them to
their irjterefts. If theafFair is left to their decision,
it is to be feared that their partiality, will incline
them to exclude the I'rinces from the govern
ment, and commit it to the Cnifes, which would
infallibly accomplilh the final ruin of the lioufe
of Bourbon :
These reasons shook the refulution of the King
of Navarre, and disposed him to follow these
councils : but he was ltill reitrained by the
Prince at Condi, whose keen refenttnent and de
sire of vengeance, rather than solid reasons, ex
cited to advise the contrary. The Duke de Mont
penjier and the Prince dc la Rhocke-fur-yon, sup
ported those who negotiated an accommodation.
Both were of the lioufe of Bourbon, bat of a branch
more distant from the royal-stock, and had not
meddled in these troubles. (To be continued.)
MR. LKDYAPOX
[The jo 11 owing is extracted from different parts of
the Journal of Mr, Ledyard } who was ferit out from
England by the s/jfo-ciation, for protnoting the disco
very of the interior parts of Africa.]
" A TRAVELLER, who Ihonld, by just compa
risons between things here and in Europe,
tel! his tale ; who, by a mind unbewitched by
antecedent descriptions, too strong, too bold, too
determined, too honest, to be capable of lying,
fliould speak just as he thought, would, no doubt,
be esteemed an arrant fool, and a stupid coxcomb.
—Per example, an Englishman who had never
seen Egypt, would alk me what fort of a woman
anEgyprian was ? If I meant to do the question
as much justice by the answer, as I could in my
way, 1 Ihould ask him to take notice of the fir it
company ofgyplies hefaw behind a hedge in Es
sex ; and I suppose he would be fool enough to
think me a fool.
" August: 14. I left Alexandria at midnight,
with a plcafanr breeze north ; and was at fun-rife
next morning at the mouth of the Nile, which
has a bar offand across it, and foundings as irre
gular as the sea, which is raised upon it by the
contentions of currents and winds.
" The view in failing up the Nile is very con
fined, unless from the top of the mast, or some
other eminence, and then it is an unbounded
plain of excellent land, miserably cultivated, and
yet interspersed with a great number of villages,
both on its banks, and as far along the meadows,
as one can fee in any dire<ftion. The river is al
so filled with boats palling aiid re-pafling ; boats
all of one kind, and navigated in one manner,
nearly also of one lize, the largett carrying ten
or fifteen tons. On board of these boats are seen
onions, water melons, dates, sometimes a horse,
a camel (which lies down in the boat) and ftieep,
goats, dogs, men and women. Towards evening
and morning they liavemufic.
" Whenever we flopped at a village, I used to
walk into it with my condu&or, who, being a
Muflelman, and a descendant from Mahommed,
wore a green turban, and was therefore refpe<S
ed, and I was sure of lafety : but in truth, drefled
as 1 was, in a common Turkifli habit, I Ihould
have walked as fafely without him. I saw 110
propensity among the inhabitants to incivility.
The villages are moll miserable aflemblages of
poor little mud huts, flung very close together
without any kind of order, full ofduft, lice, fleas,
bed bugs, flies, and all the curses of Moles : peo
ple poorly clad,the youth naked—in such respects
629
Hkso
[Whole No. 159.]
they rank infinitely l>elovv any lavages I ever fa\v.
" The common people wear nothing but a shirt
and drawers, and they are always blue. Green
is the royal or holy colour ; none but the defen
dants ot Mahommed, if I am rightly informed,
being permitted to wear it."
PARIS, August 8,
THE mystery made yeftcrday in the National Affcmbly of the
names of the two Members accused by the Chatelet, of hav
ing been concerned in the scenes of violence that palled at Ver
laillcs, the sth and 6th of October, 1790, is ftifHcieritly explained
by the following report of that tribunal, puhlifhed this dav, viz.
Chatelet, August 5 and 6.
" THE Chatelet of Paris has hern fitting thrfe two days part,
to hear the report ot the invelfigation of the affair of the cth and
6th of October talt.
" By judgment without appeal (en dcrnicrrc rrflortc) it has been
ordered, That information ihould continue to be tak.n, and thai
111 the mean time, a pcrfon of the name of Nicholas, (known by
the designation of the man with the long lie»rd) MadonoiiclJe
Tcroine de Mcricourt, a m?n of the name of Atjnaud, a name of
Louise Keine le Due, and a man ol the namcol Ulangey, Ihould be
apprehended.
*1 hat certain persons unknown, (thirteen in number, several
of whom were dressed 11: women's; clothes, and whole delcripttoit
We think, useless to give) be likewifc appieheudcd.
" Asalfo, that M. Louis Poil, d'Orlcaui, and Mirabetu
the elder, deputies of the National Afl'embly, appealing to be lia
ble to be apprehended, copies of the depositions Hull be presented
to the National Alfembly, 111 conformity with the decrees ot the
26th of June, fanCHonrd by the King, that the AfTcmbiy may
take fucb ftcps as it may think proper."
THE mysterious packet was opened on Monday la(l, by the
committee, when, the proofs appearing fiitficiendy iliong, the
two members accused, were immediately taken into custody.
" The young Mirabeau (le Vicompte) is supposed to hdve been
a party, as, on their apprehension, he immediately disappeared.
The objett of this conspiracy, it is said at Paris, was to remove
the King, and that on that occasion, he owed his life to accident.
t; Opinions are however divided, and the Duke and M. Mira
beau aienot without their supporters, who fay that the whole is a
plot of the Marquis de la Fayette ! "
The Viscount Mirabeau is said to have absented himfelf, since
Wednesday last, from Paris, and from his dutiet at the National
AfTembly, without any one's knowing what is bccome of him.
It isfufpe&ed by some that he had favored M. Bonne Parvardin's
cfeape from priion, and hearing of his being taken into
did not chufeiowait the event. The latter gentleman was expect
ed to be brought a prisoner to Paris to night, and from his exam
ination much insight is expe&ed to be got in the supposed project
of a counter-revolution. Some of the public pretend thai thisprd
je£t is not yet given up, and that fiequent councils are held at Aix
la-Chappdlc, by M. de Broglio, and several refugee lieutenant ge
nerals. In the mean time tht examination of d'Hofiei and Petit
Jean ftili continues, but no information can be obtaiued from
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY OF FRANCE.
The patriotic contribution ot Monsieur was this day announ
ced to amount to 500,000 livres, the fourth of his annual income.
The fubfeription of this prince rendered an early homage to the
equalizing ric.-crie of the Aflembly. It was (imply Lou 1 s Stan
islaus Xavier, de France. No vcltige of his diitin&ion
ot Monsieur, or ot his title of Compte de Provence, remained ;
and the fublcription of the next brother 10 the King was not to
be diftmguiQicd from that of the most obfeure citizen. It was
natural to expect so exemplary a tribute to the laws, from this ref
peflable Prince, whose conduct through the whole progvefs of
the revolution has been so unfulpicious and unoffending.
Mr. Neckar's letter was read, in vindication of himfclf from
the charges of M. Camus, relative to the anticipations in favor oF
M. le Compte d' Artois, and Madame de la Mark. He denied pofi.
lively the fubftauce of cither aceulation : what, however, he had
done, was undoubtedly at the command of the sovereign. His
epistle was conceived in terms of strong diflatisfa&ion and <iifguft.
He complains of unjuflifiible dillruft towards a man, who had
ever anxiously laboicd for the prolpcrity of the nation. In no
ticing the calumny calf upon him by an unkown person, relative
% to the concealment of 600 millions of the national treasure, he thus
cxpreffes himfelf : *
" I earneflly requefl that the assembly will fever ely search into the par
ticulars vfthat accusation* and by a speedy examination of my account
d diver me from the aspersions of my enemies. lam the more anxious—
I hop; becomingly so —for such an audit, as it will be the herald of my
abproaching peace, in a retirementfrom the tempers of aflive life, and
the conflart tormznt of continual vigilance. Yes, gentlemen, I will then
depart in the hovefl confidence of integrity and zeal. Certain that my
duty has never been deviated from a moment, Jfhall, with alacrity, fu(-
mit to whatever scrutiny the representatives of the nation may deem ne
cejfary in my particular to make ; not dreading invefligation, where dif
cfofure will be surely honorable, as more clearly evincing to the world
the purity of my purposes, and the difficulties of my office, and how
hardly indeed I have laboured—to be rewarded at length with suspicion
and clamor."
To so much firmnefs and free representation, from a great man,
opprefled by affairs absolutely inextricable, the AHembly were
by no means insensible. The deepest iinpreflion was made upon
the minds of all present, assisted too by the indisposition of the
foverexgn.
LONDON, September 2
Great efforts are to be made, soon after the meeting of the next
parliament, to have the trade to Hudson's Bay thrown open in
discriminately to all the fbbjelU of Great-Britain. It is thought
the Hudson's Bay company, at present consisting of only nine or
ten persons, will be the less anixous to have their exclusive privi
lege continued, as they do not now find their trade with the coun
tries about that bay, so advantageous as before we get poffeflion
of Canada. The company's charter was granted to them in the
year 1670 for an exclusive trade tothofe parts, and ever since they
have kept up a constant annual intercourse, with four large ship*
navigated by 130 seamen. Their several Forts are now gairifon
ed by about 190 or 200 men. They export commodities to thr
valueof i 6,0001. and bring home returns to the value of
which yield to the public revenue 37341. —This commerce, small
JULY 26.
August 1as it is, has afforded immrnfe profits to the corrtpatfy, even
some advantages to Great-Britain in general; finer the commodi
ties wc exchange with the Indians arc ail manufactured in Gre»t-
Britain, and being the very refufc ot the nrjuufa&orie«i would
find no other purchalers but th£ saVage nations'*—On the other
hand, the Jkins and furs imported from Hud fort's Buy arc the bell
America produces, enter largely into ourm<inufa£cures s and afford
us materials for trading with many hat ions of JLurope to great ad -
vantage.
i( Mr. Mears, and his auociates, during his continuance on the
northweflern coasts of Ajnciica, made such obfetvations as inclined
them to believe that notwithftandmg -the opinions of I'o many na
vigators to the contrary, a northwest pa (fa ge through the Continent
of America docs actually exist.—Some publications from theTe
gentlemen on the fiibjcft are rxpe£h-d to appear in a short time.
With all due deference, however, to Mr. Me«ir<, &c, it is a fate
well afcertaiued, that no such palfage exilts to the southward of
the latitude of the 56th dsgrec. If,in rejlity,it exifltsany where,
it /nuft be either through B.iifin's Bay, or by the north of Green
land, in the Weftevn Hemifpbere. As to any paff.ige beyond the
56th degree to the northward* it mult be neccffanly l*o incomm >d
ed with ice nearly the whole year round, as to wholly unfit for the
purposes of navigation and commerce."
Count Wo ron row, the Ruffian Minister at this court, is amor*'
the moftenlightened characters his country has ever produced.
He l ; ves much retired at his Richmond Villa, and emplojs his
leisure hours in the education of his children, and it is the gene
ral opinion of all who know him,:hat they could not find a better
preceptor.
A person of observation who has lately returned to this country
from his travels thiough the dominions of the Eaflern Turks, re
lates that the contents of the Ottoman Library, kept in the Serag
lio, are at length brought to light by the treachery of one of the
pages of the Seraglio, who was prevailed upon to translate clandet
tinely every day, a few lines of the larjje catalogue, till the whole
was com pleated ; and thus we have in polfeflion at last, what the
Turkilh jealousy has so long kept from the world. The merits
and value of this library, however, it appears have been greatlv
over-rated Commentaries, explanations, See. on the Alcoran,
occupy the largest portion. There are also some treatif son juris
prudence, with commentaries and marginal notes. The ■hiltories
arc not numerous, and chiefly conflacd to the Ottom u Empire.
tJnder the h< ad philosophy, arc, the myftericsof nature, the truths
of Plato,, of Pliny, and The learncJ have long
imagined that the loft Decads ofLivy, the whole works of Taoitus,
and the poems of Homer were deposited in Litis libiary—but all
these hopes are as none of these works are to .»e found
in the catalogue -Piintiwg is now carried on to great perfe&ion
in Constantinople, and this alon© will probably in a course of
years, by diffufang knowledge, L*ad toa total ievolution tntlie sen
timents and manners of the Turks The greater number of their
publications confifls of the history and annals of their empire, arid
their wars with other nations, digclted in a regular fei icy—-which
willdoubtlels furnifh ample materials for a more authentic hifto
rj of the Eaflern nations, than any that has yet been commumcatcd
to the public.
There are a number of people who have forne how got it in
their heads, that one obje& of our preparations, and consequently
not the least, is the refloration of the Gallic Monarch. Reports of
this kind are hardly worth a serious refutation. A perfect neu
trality with regard to France, is the avow.d fyllem oi the present
administration.
The gentleman who offered the waterman two-pence for pre
fcrving his wife from a watery grave, has certainly been amply
vindicated by the declaration that the lady was his wife. —Wecan-
not but think the waterman a fool tor expecting more in such a
cafe.
In former times, hunting was the only business of a gentleman.
The practice of blood made him rough and hard-hearted : he led
the life of a dog, or of a savage ; violently a&ive in the field, su
pinely indolent at home. His train of ideas was confined to dogs k
horses, hares, foxes : not a rational idea entered the brain, not a
spark of patriotism, nothing done for the public, his dependents
enslaved and not fed, no hufbjndry, no embeilifliment, loathsome
weeds round his dwelling, aiforder and dirt within. Consider
the present mode of liviug. How delightful the change, from the
hunter to the farmer, from the deflroycr of animals to the feeder
of men.
From the different voyages made to the South Seas, and other
parts, in consequence of the encouragement given by his Majesty,
110 less than twelve hundred new fpi cies of plants have been ad
ded to those formerly known ; and every other department of na
tural history has received large additions.
AfLer alt that has- been- laid in favor ot Lord Dundonald's coal
tar, the demand therefor in the navv does not answer expe&ation.
In the seaman's phrase, it is too lean a coat to be of much service ;
and experience has shown r that, altho laid on in the best manner,
the bottom planks ol a (hip become entirely bare, even in so mo
derate a run as from the EngliOi ch.nnel 10 Barbadoes. The tar
of Carolina is infinitely preferred 111 the Irish ports; and in this
iflind also, we of late give it a preference, for its lloutncfs and du
rability. The importations of this atticlcfrom Norway are daily
on the decline ; and it now comes higher than the American tar
CLUB DES JACOBINS.
A FEW hours after the meeting, which tool
place on the 13th inft between M. Cazales
and M. Barnavk, this last gentleman presented
himfelf to the Club of the Jacobins, of which he
was President at that time, and gave an account
of his duel with that niodefty which so well suits
talents, vjdtory, and high-spirited youth. He
discovered the fatal error he had been brought
into, and the falfe point of honor which had en
gaged him to commit an action contrary to every
principle of morality and of law : He announced
to the members of the club, that he was deter
mined to acknowledge his error before the Na
tional Aflembly, and to solicit a decree to prof,
cribe duelling hereafter.
Mr. Robertspierre, another member of the
club, and of the National Aflembly, celebrated
for his genius and eloquence, spoke on the fame
fubjecl in the following terms:
" Gentlemen,
" I CANNOT refufe to the generofsty of mind, and
jlrength oj reasoning of the hon. gentleman, -who has
just fpqke on a fubjefl so inter ell tug tofociety, thu eu
log turn he defe r-jes. Undoubtedly the National A fern
bly ought, and will pass a decree againfl duelling :
Jt is a barbarous relic of that chivalry which, in other
refpetts, we have so nob'ly abolished. Be not deceived
gentlemen, you have in this cafe avery old prejudice
to fib dice ; it will not be abolijbed by a jimple decree
of the National Afembly, and nothing can foeffe dual
ly destroy it as a threat example.
" While M. Bur nave dtfplays his talents and ex.
erts his eloquence to extirpate for ever the favase and
b*rrid custom of duelling, I propoft to decree "that a
To his Excellency Governor PATERSON,
SIR,
the President, Register, Diredors andaf.
liftants of the city of New-Brunfwick, in
common council convened, beg leave to present
you ourfincere and inoft refpectful congratulati
ons on your appointment to the government of
New-Jersey. Your early and firm attachment to
the cause of liberty, an J your integrity, wisdom
and ability in the several public characters which
you have luftained, added to your well known li
berality of fentiinent, and your benevolence in
the walks df private life, early drew upon you
the eyes of all as thefrcceffbr of our late, worthy
and much refpe<fted Governor. The unanimous
uffiages of the people, have now placed you in
his feat ; and we hope you will believe we freak
the language of our hearts, and of the citizens
of.New-Bruntw.ck, when we allure you, we fee]
the 1110 ft cordial fatisfartion in this choice, and
hail you welcome to that important lfation. The
unanimity which has diftinguilhed itfelf in your
election affords to you the happiest preface of the
support ot your fellow citizens in the execution of
your office, and to us, the most flattering profpecft
of all that happiness which is to be derived from
a free republican government, under a wife and
virtuous admin,ltration. That von may lon
continue in domeflic felicity, to enjoy the con"
fidence of your country, and that iour service.
may be rewarded by their wannest gratitude and
elteem,is our sincere wish.
Paris, August 18.
To which the GOVERNOR made the fo]lowi
_ Answer.
Gentlemen,
I E t LT N y ° U m y, moft grateful acknowledge-
The y °r 'V P e and address
The esteem of the wile and virtuous is a all
P leafl »?> i» the adminifbatio, of Jo
vern.nent eflentially neceflary. Elevated bt fL
unanimous fuffrages of a free npnr.l» t H
tion so ably filled bv our late word v' "'"V
refpeded Governor.' I
eft circumstances of my ] ife , that ,nv cond® n
civic crown J)>all be fyrcfented to that gnat prince, to
to that Chriflian hen and -worthy legifiator, -who has
endured with a coringe and magnanimity beyond ex
ample, and almost aiove belief, the redoubled injuits
vsh'tch those who are er.vious of his glory, and hit uttpar ■
alleltd virtues, have ijfertd him\ • This greatnefi oj
foul, foreign t* the principles and conception oj the ge
nerality of men, merits■ greater encomiums from an
ajfembly oj philofopbtrs and legijlators, than that fe
rocious difpofuion sung into heroism by our bards.
That great mart hits done more for his reputation by
the mild/ieff of his temper, than all his forefathers by
their atchievemtnts. What, indeed, can be greater
in human nature, than to Jee a man rendering him
ft If'ftp trior to insult ?" •
The eloquence of M. Robertfpierre inflaming
the hearts of all the Jacobins, it was echocd una
nimously from every part of the room, " Long
life to M. d'Orleans, who firft among the Bour
bon race has trod on the Gothic prejudices of
chivalry.
To the Editor of the ENGLISH MAGAZINE.
SIR,
ACUS.TOM, which ha» long prevailed, and
seems daily to become more general, has hi
therto been thought too trifling to claim thelafh
of satire; bat; as k has frequently roused my in
dignation and refciitinenc, 1 ihall freely give you
niy real sentiments upon it.
The practice which thus deservedly calls forth
i\y c-enfure, is that of (tanding before the fire,
vith the hinder flaps of the coat indelicately ex
ended by the handily that the pofterioi's may en
oy the whole wannth of the fire. Te4uch an
;xcefs is this faihon arrived, that I havefrequent
y seen a powdered beau utiblufhingly (land for
lalf an hour together, in that indecent position,
it a time when several ladies have been seated
round thefire place,receiving no advantage from
the benign contents of the grate, and having 110-
rhiiig more than a peep at them between the
legs of the strutting hero.
To convince you, Sir, that this habit is acquired
from £afhion or example, I ftjall only obl'erve,
[hat in the height of fuiiimer, when the heat is
almost infuppot table,, if any of these rump cha
fers should happen to be in a room where there
is only a fire place, up go the flaps of the coat in
an instant, and the hero enjoys the extatic ideal
warmth of a grate unillumined. 'Till I had
seen several initances of this kind, I never declar
ed myfelf an inveterate enemy to these hipnion
gers ; fuppollng them prompted to such a prac
tice by a natural frigidity of constitution ; but,
being now convinced that it is considered only as
a faftiionable amuleme'nt, instead of a means of
acquiring warmth neceflary for the exercise of
Che animal fun&ioift, I shall equally hold the
practice and thepfadtifersin derision.
THE ADDRESS
Of the COMMON COUNCIL of thi city of New
Brunswick.
Signed by order of the Common Council.
A.r t> r i J OHN NEILSON. Re-rifter
Ncw-Brunfwici, Nod. i. 1 ' & Cr '
630
the different departments, which I have occupi
ed, has met with the approbation of my fellow
citizens at large, and in particular, of the com
mon CouncilofNew-Brunfwick. This favorable
opinion Ifhall conftautly endeavonr to preserve
It will aid and animate me in the execution of
the important trust committed tomjr charge,and
affords the happieit presage of support, frcftn the
good people of this state.
I wifli you, Gentlemen, all happiness, both ofa
public and private nature, and especially, thac
you may long enjoy the blessings of a free go
vernment, and trail folic the fame inviolate, tw
your polterity. W. PATERSON-
PITTSBURGH, October 23
We learn, that two young Germans or tfie
names of Jacob Laurie and Peter Mitier ) hoth of
good charaifter and-refpectable connections, \uere
in valved in afcufHe ou the evening of the gene
ral election, at Greenfburgh, and after a hard
fought battle, which lasted about half an hour,
the latter of them was unfortunately killed.
They were relations, although strangers to each
other, and it appears that the combat was-fair,
and without anydtgree of personal malice in ei
ther. The father and family of the deceased
are so entirely convinced of the innocent inten
tions of Mr. Laurie, who is now in confinement,
that they are perfectly reconciled to him, which
is a circuinftance thac does them great credit.
We heartily sympathise with them in their af
fliction, and hope that the citizens \»onld be
careful to those quarrels, which have been
too common at public meetings, and frequently
occasion diftreis to individuals, and throw a dis
repute upon the community at large.
P O HT s M O U T H, o£. 20.
Giving rum and wine at funerals has been so -hnuch difcountrn
anced, that there is no (uch thing seen now at pfyncral in the
southern States. In conducting ourselves thus, we certainly fh?.ll
ast agreeable to the fpir'it of chriflianity, although we tacitly dis
avow the do&rineot the heathen philofophcr, wr.o taught,
That when fir (I an infant breathes the vital air ;
Officious friendsJliould u ekome him to care ;
But joy fhou/dlife's concludingfcenc attend,
s4nd zcine be drank, to toajl a parted friend.
INTELLIGENCE-OFFICE,
No. 208, in Maskjt, above 6ih Street, South fide,
WI L L be jiegociated all kinds of PAPER
MONEY and
Public Securities,
BJ SI NESS tranfa<fted in public offices in the
cily, and such Paper-Monty and Cervicites Furnifhcd, as will
make payment at the Land OlHcc equal to Gold and Silver.
MONEY borrowed or loaned, and BILLS,
BONDS, and NOTES of HAND djfcountcd.
HOUSES, farms, Lands, and Lots, bought
and fold, let or Icaied, arid Houses, Rooms, hoarding and Lodg
ing procured for Strangers, or others.
BOOK-KEEPERS, Clerks, SchooJ-Mafters,
Waiters, Nurirs, Seamilrcffcs, Chamber and other Maids, and
thole of other profeffions, who come well recommended, may
hear ol employ ; and Employers be supplied, by applying to '
FRANCIS W HI T E.
Staler in Paper Money 9 and Public Securities.
On MONDAY the fir ft inft. was pubiifkcd>
By CAREY, S T E W ART, and Co
The American Museum,
For OCTOBER, 1790.
CONTENTS.
ORIGINAL ARTICLES. -prose.
A/TETtOROLOGIC AL observations made in Philadelphia,
Augult 1790. Do. made in Philadelphia, Sept. 1700.-
Obierval.ous «n the weather in Augufl i 790. Do. on weather in
Sept. 1790. A character, A letter from Monimia to her friend,
txpons Irom Philadelphia to foreign ports in 176.5. Exports
Iromdo. to do. in 1773. Imports into Philadelphia from foreign
ports in 1773. Remarks 011 capital punishments. Warner Mil
-111 s a ieis to Congrcfs. Sketch of the nature awtl causes of
diseases; poetry.
Address to the Deity.
. SELECTED ARTICLES.— TROSE.
\\ it and Beauty : An allegory. ElTay on contentment in prof
pcr-.tyßefledhons of a rake. The folly ol affectation. Two
cxtraoidinary chara&ers. A maxim. New and curious obfer
pl\T!i 5 I'V'Ti h , lft ° r >'- Number of sea vessels in the port of
Philadelphia Oftobcr ,8, .790. Articles recommended to far
mers On facial virtues. The vhiftle : a true story :by Dr.
ran <. in. A n*ice on the choice ol a hulband. On matrimonial
f] arre s. iort account of Mr. M'Gillivray. General view of
tie tngluh revenue since the conquest. Method of prefervieg the
ralfi ■ aV( ru r ut . tcr - On the tranfitorinefs of life—and on mor
y. Observations on the architecture of America. Remarks
on party dmfion, : by the late Gov. Livingfton. Sketch of the
of vf y 0 ..!l 0U P ln g. Dcfcription of the floating gardens
dr ' Noughts on wit and good humour. Letter from
Moi. ° i r y Francc - Law cafe : Ayers verfusWijkes
j 1 j ° a l,n g beef. Amount of duties and tonnage iri Phila.?
rl U ,Ua ' j r, parativc v ' ew l be principal exports from Phila
couMfof? B '£\ m ? re ' ? nft «rice of the to.ture in Scotland. Ac
man it a 63 Ve ? e 'p n g'"g to Baltimore. Letter rdpe&ing thr
li irhp] 3 » Ur fn° j Wmein America - Geographical description oi
T if- h°«; S r J u^a — or the penitent daughter. Law cafe—"
" w >erverfus Abraham Saunders. Account of ihe mer—
Tt | 14. maxirn * Address ol the house of representatives of the
riioA tatCs l ° president. Cieek treaty. CheroK.ee tfeat y.
aw treaty. Charge of chief justice Jay to the juries on the
eaften. circuit. poetry.
ch nfT,' rvviv bearing of the death of Gov. Livingfton. job,,
n- tr" . ?f T ' g°°d humour. Ode to the memory
Tr»\ y a , rrcn - of wishing. Tlje pious failox.
vciC 3 y on ber birth day. Friend (hip. Extempore
l j CS ? l" CGIn S a b °y amu^n g himfelfwitb blowing a soap bub
th »V 1 u 3 ome * The lily of the vale. Elegiac oda on
e death ol Dr. Franklin. Wal m XXIX paraphrased. Ode to
THc complaint'' " >n * * yOU " S cl;r SV !nin ' ode.
At thePhiladelphia, Nov. 6.
O F F R A N C £
THE collection of duties and taxes in France,
which continues upon the old eltablilhment of
•■defpotifin, becomes difficult and precarious : The
people complain of the anniverfkry feitivals, and
veSued philosophic declamations, while they feel
wot the benefits expected from their emancipa
tion : In many places the arm of the collectors
£ias been Itrengthened by the alfiitance of the
.military
The relief anticipated from the property of
•the clergy is found inadequate to the public ex
igencies, it was I'uppofed that property would
counterbalance—as the ajjignats, or notes funded
011 it, have already depreciated 6 or 7 percent.
011 the 28th Augoft, Ivl. de Gouy, after a speech
of two hours, came forward with a proposal to
pay off in one day, a debt of 100,000,000 llerling
—the creditors to be paid in ajjigiiati—the whole
kingdom to be mortgaged for the security ; this
proposal me: with fomeoppofition, it wasthought
tiiat such an enormous sum of paper money would
be extremely fubjedl to depreciation ; the aflem
bly resolved however to resume the discussion
that day fortnight.
Some paragraphias fay that the National Af
fernbly begin to discover that it is dangerous to
pull down an old house without being provided
with materials to erect a new one ; we rather
think that any existing difficulties in the way of
the French revolution do notarise from the want
of materials ; as every civilized community fur
nifhes those neceflary to conititute a goodconfti
tution ; the proper arrangement is the grand de
iideratum ; till this is made on the ltricft prin
ciples of justice, or a sacred regard to the equal
rights of all—a permanent settlement of a cun
ftitutioit is avain expectation.
Whether the absorption of all the powers of
government in one unwieldy aflembly, uncon
trolled, and without refponAbility, who govern
'by temporary refolvps, and deal out a constitu
tion by peace-meal, docs not naturally generate
infurmounrable obilacles to the completion of
the revolution of francs, time will discover.
There was a time when the clergy and nobili
•ty of France appeared to be zealous in the. cause
of the revolution—fearful jealouiies are enter
tained respecting them at prefenc ; that policy
which would have conciliated their attachment
to the cause of freedom was certainly the mod eli
gible—whether this consisted in stripping them
of their revenues, and levelling their honours
with the dust, mull be left to the telt of expe
rience.
The revolution of France is without compari
son the greatest event in the annals of time ; the
extraordinary steps which have been taken by the
national aflembly are said to be fandlioned by
the peculiar circuinftances in which the kingdom
was placed ; deep-rooted prejudices were to be
eradicated—the throne of despotism was to be
undermined and its very foundations destroyed ;
3nd before the people could be brought to realize
their emancipation—the veil of tyranny molt be
" rent from the top to the bottom"—in doing
this, though the rights of property may for a
time be violated, yet an equal conltitution will
bring order out of this neceflary confulion, and
'eventually secure under the aul'pices of liberty
the happiness of the people ; this at least ap
pears ta be the fentimenc of the national alTeni
bly intheir address to the people of France.
OF GREAT BRITAIN,
Great Britain has put herfelf to. an enormous
expence in equipping >a formidable fleet—and
for what .'—This is an enquiry not easily answer
ed. Can the fulleft acknowledgment on the
■part of Spain of an equal right to trade with the
natives of Nootka Sound., and areftitution oftwo
merchant ihips conipenfate for these expendi
tures ? Surely no. The debt of Great Britain
was thought to be fufficiently great : Mr. Pitt
has always appeared solicitous for its redu<stion ;
his popularity is said be suspended on this fa
vorite point ; but war always adds to the debt
and taxes of a country ; in (hort, the recent con
duct of the Britilh minister is truly enigmatical,
and cannot at present.be folvedby any other fup
podtion than this, that the world has been deceiv
ed in refpedt to the embarrafl'ments of that coun
iry—and that they have such. a surplusage of
-wealth, that fportiug with a few millions will no;
3>e feit by the people.
From the length oftimeconfumed in equipping
*she Britifti navy—and the extreme difficulty found
ran manning i(—the difference between herfitua
vtion wfaeu /evered from America, and what it
;J"ormerly was when united to her, is inoft itrik
£ngly apparent. Should this circumftarlce abate
'theßritirtl spirit of conquest and domination, it
-may conduce much to the tranquility of the hu
man race—one, among many thousands of the
bieifings derived to mankind from the American
revolution.
" It. is Angular indeed, that England, high as
.'it, is in.,cultivation, and which in former times
-ttiwd t-e produce snore cora than was licceflitry for
the home consumption, should have been of late
years under the neceflicy of depending on the
produceof foreign countries for apart of its fup
piy."
Theelder Mirabea-j, lpeakingof the Ameri
can Congress, lays " I cannot but admire, that those
vehom we once ejleetned a rude and barbarous people
hav; already fit an example to the old world in the
intricate feience of government. I »/ay fijely pro
nounce the npref-ntatiues in the American legiflat'ire
to be the firjl body of philosophers who have ever had
it in their power to atfcmble peaceably together in a le
gi/lative capacity, and deliberate upon the rights of
nations and of men. Theioorltl indeed,has been long
enough under the controul of bullies and ruffians. it is
time that men oj fent/ment, learning and benevolence
began to have the fill ay ; these are the lights that must
guide our fpedes to that true dignity, -which their /la
tion in the chain oj created intelligence demands.
The prodigious demand for American produce
the last year iias been produdlive of the greatest
agricultural exertions the pad season :—and our
labors have been crowned with abundant success.
The consequence has been a reduction in» the
prices—but not Jo great wetruft as to operate un
favorably : It would be a great misfortune in
deed, (ho'uld this circumllance slacken our indus
try, or discourage our enterprize.—lt is doubtlef*
the policy of the United States not only to make
our ltores so abundant as out of the excess to be
able to supply the whole world beside ; but also
if potfible to inakeit for the interest of all other
nations to trade with us, by-affording absolutely
the cheapest market.
How various are the fenttments-of mankind up
on the fame fubjetft ! While some have supposed
tliatthe United States might derive a revenue by
a tax on emigration to this country—others pro
pose that a bounty should be paid on the importa
tion of foreign artizans. Whatever may be the
refultof such a proposition, certain it is, that no
country ever afforded such inducements tocuii
grauts,for it may be prettyfafely aflerted,that eve
ry industrious sober mechanic or hufbandmaii, who
oiice fixed his foot on these hofpitablefhores,never
had cause to regret the change of hemispheres.
Whilellie United States more than realize the
anticipations of the friendstothe present: coufti
tution—-not one of the numerous forebodings of
it? enemies, has ever come to pass ; these things
ought to be had in remembrance, for tho compan
ions are odious, they sometimes answer very va
luable pnrpofes.
The present is undoubtedly one of the mod
interelling periods in the hiltory of man : The
world is in labor—and liberty we trust: will ere
long open its eyes on every nation under heaven.
—The human mind, as if inspired with new fa
culties, now penetrates through the thick veil of
error and prejudice, and dares to think for itfelf.
The rights ofourfpecies arejuftly appreciated,
and properly aflerted : Opinions derive 110 longer
afantftity, from the ruil of age, and the cobwebs
of antiquity : America set the glorious example—
and the flame has spread from nation to nation,
till the inolt degraded people now declare the}
will be free.
I he abuie of Terms is an evil that has produ
ced much mifchief among mankind :—Murder, by
being called war, is advocated by many who would
revolt from doing a personal injury Intrigue
and fiiieff: in politics are denominated addrefr
Overreaching in trade is the art of making a bar
gain Flattery is but complaisance and uni
verfal deception, is a complete knowledge of the
•world.
A correfpon dent observes, that as there are no
land-jobbers in the United States, it is foraewhat
surprising that the treaty with the Creek nation
should have been To indecently attacked, as it ap
pears to have been in fomeof the late papers :—
Had the cafe been otherwise—and individuals
or companies conceived themselves injured by
the treaty's contravening their right to millions
of acres fairly purchased, and falerunly ceded by the
whole Creek nation, we might have expe&ed to
hear that The President and Senate of the Uni
ted States, with all the executive officers of go
vernment were jainm'd into the Coinmiifioner's
closet to fabricate this odious treaty ; but, as be
fore observed, no land-jobbers existing in the
United States, the outrageous insult on govern
ment is truly unaccountable.
Another correspondent observes, that on a sup
position that a deep fchenie of land jobbing has
for a long time existed—that in the moment of
inebriation some of the Creek nation have been
induced to put their mark to acts of ceflion, which
when in polfellion of their reason they have de
clared to be null and void, inaimuch as they had
no authority for what they did, their nation not
being privy, or consenting to such deed of ces
sion—in such cafe, to form a treaty that fliall put
it out of the power of the land-jobbers to carry
fire and sword into such territory so ceded, is a
mod abominable, high-hand infringement of
personal right, and a violation of the Constitu
tion—it is an ex po'ft fadlo law—in Ihort, it is
" a Knoxonian plan"—smuggled into "theCoui
mlfllonei-'s closet"—smuggled into the Senate of
631
ilic United States—Anuggled under the fignatune
oi Tiie President—and smuggled into the appro
bation of the people of the United States ! ! !
Extract of a htt:r jront a Gentleman at Alexandria,
to his friend at Baltimore, dated the 29th ult.
" J u st the moment of closing this letter,
liave been informed, by ;i gentleman from tin
Southward, that, yeiterday, jCapt. Moivhray, it
a veflel from England, arrived at Port Royal,
Rappahannock river, after a very ftiort paflage,
(report fays, 22 days) by which veilel there are
the inolt authenticated accounts of a WAR hav
ing absolutely taken place between England and
Spain, and that tire Captain had a<£tully read the
declaration ot war previous to his leaving Eng
land.—How far this may be true, I cannot fay >
but, from several circumllances, lam apt to give
credit to it."
Extract of a letter from Virginia, Ocl. 17 ,to the Editor.
" Crops of tobacco and wheat, as v/ell as corn,
are very abundant; all of which are incomparably
low to what they were last year : Tobacco, best
James-River, may be had for 17s. and 18s.—wheat
pr. bushel. weighing 60 wt. at 4/6. and 5f. —and
all other commodities low in proportion."
It has been said that the methodist church in
the United States consists of 57621 persons ; a
correspondent who remembers the times of Mr.
Wh itfi eld, fays, that a much larger church
could have been collected forty years ago, frpm
the followers of that celebrated itenerant who was
the father of the methodifts.
On the 25th of October last, Mr. William
M'Cloud, fnuff manufacturer and miller of Mr.
Isaac Jones's fnufF-mill, on Brandywine-Creek,
going up the race Jt>ank unfortunately fell into
the Creek and was drowned. He had not been
miffing above 20 minutes before he was found> and
every means which medical Ikill could devise,
used for his recovery, but without success. He
has left a wife and child to bewail his lols.
The Law Lecture willcommencein this city
about the ijth Dec.—[The ds/ign of the plan is it
jurnijh a rational andufejul entertainment to gentle
men of all projejjions—and in particular to ajjifl in
Jarming the legifiator, the mapiflrate, and the lawyer.
At the close ef the whole caurfe, some le[hires and ex
ercises in rhetoric and cempofition are to be given by
Dr. Smith.
A fpccimcn of American worthy the attention of the
curious, is to he Teen at Mr. R. LeflL*s in Market-ftrect. It is a
model of a flour mill, upon a new conftru&ion, contrived by Mr.
Oliver Evans t of Delaware fiate. This machine, without theaflift..
ance of manual labour, fir ft conveys the grain defpofited to be
ground, to tbe upper floor, wbere it is cleaned ; thence it descends
to the hoppfcr, and after being ground in the usual way, the flour
is conveyed to the upper floor, v» here by a simple and ingenious
contrivance, it is spread, cooled, and gradually made to pafsto
the bolting hopper. The whole contrivance does the greatest ho
nor to the inventor, and is likely to be of some precuniary advan
tage to him, as he has obtained from Congress an exciufive right
to the profits of the invention for 14 years. A number of malls
have already been conftru&ed on this plan, which are found to an
swer perfectly in pra&ice. To make inanimate nature thus yield
to the powers of man's inventive faculties, and produce what ma
nual labour would otherwise be obliged to effect, must be of the
greatest advantage to a young country where hands are wanted.
Numbers of those formerly employed in manufa&uring flour, will
now guide the plough, cultivate our vacant lands, and lubour to
encrcafcthe real wealth of the country. (Cch. Adv.)
There will be an Ec li pse of the Sun—vifiblc.
Beginning, at — — -
Greatcft obscuration - —
Ecliptic conjun£tion - -
End - - s
Duration — - — s
Digits eclipsed, about on the Sun's northern limb.
At places northward from Philadelphia this Eclipse will be
larger; and to those southward, ("mallei ; but will not be central
to any part of the Earth.
THE UNITED STATES.
"\T7HILE Discord rends the caftern hemisphere,
* * Peace i with her train of virtues triumphs here;
Beneath her frailes fair fctenct rears her head,
And all the arts their various treasures spread ;
The Ikies benignant (hed their genial pow'r,
And plenty, in a rich profufion, (how'r ;
Our commerce catches every wind that blows :
To earth's remotest shores our produce goes :
Our sacred laws, freedom and justice frame,
And rival nations cclebrate our fame !
Hail happy States ! may fate propitious give,
That long thy sons iB harmony may live :
On Union built, till time dissolve the sphere
Thou free, and great, and glorious (halt appear !
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Deleted 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT
Final Settlement and other Certificates 12.si ii.si.
Indents — 7fi - Ift.
Siate debts — of. 8/2.
LATEST ARRIVALS AT THIS PORT.
Brig Betsey, Pottei, New-York, € days
Mary Ann, Lemon, Liverpool, 59
James, M'Calmont, Oporto
Schooner Favorite, Grath, Grenada, 25
Iqduftry, Peeples, St. Euftatia, 20
Sloop Laurel, Shore, Portsmouth, it
Hope, Acken, Chidcflon, 10.
THIS DAY
>3 fa M/-
if' 7/2-
5/9 6/
H. M.
0 16
1 19 P. M.
1 2ojr
2 22
2 6f THE POWER OF INNOCENCE.
A TRUE STORY.
WHEN firft the nuptial state we prove,
We live the happy life of love :
But when familiar charms no more,
Infpirethe blifsthey gave before ;
Each less delighting, less is loved,
First this,then that, is disapproved ;
Complacence flies, neglect succeeds ;
Neglect, disdain and hatred breeds.
'Twas thus a pair, who long time proved,
The joys to love, and be beloved,
At length fell out for trifling things ;
From trifling, anger mostly springs.—
The wish to please forfook each bread,
Love's throne by basest rage poflefe'd,
Resolved to part—they'd meet no more,
Enough.—The chariot's at the door—
The mansion was my lady's own—
Sir John refolv'd to live in town:
Writings were drawn ; each cause agreed ;
Both vow'd they'd ne'er recall th« deed.
The chariot waits.—Why this delay ?
The sequel shall thecaule display.
One lovely girl this'lady bore,
Dear pledge of joys she tastes no mor« ;
The father's mother's darling, flic,
Now lifp'd and prattled on each knee.—
Sir John, when rising to depart,
Turn'd to the darling of his heart,
And cried with ardour in his eye,
Come Bctfcy, bid Mamma good bye.'
The lady, trembling, anfwer'd " No—
u Go, kiss Papa, my Betfey t go."
<c The child shall live with me," f}ie cried,
** The child (hall chuff, Sir John replied.
Poor Betsey look'd at each by turns ;
And each the starting tear discerns ;
My lady asks with doubt and fear,
11 Will you not live with me, my dear ?"
" Yes," half refolv'd replied the child,
And, half fupprefs'd her tears, (he fmil'd.
Come Betsey," cried Sir John, " you'll go,
" And live with dear Papa, I know.'
" Yes," Betsey cried.— The lady then,'
Addref'd the wondering child again.
" The time to live with both is o'er ;
" This day we part, to meet no more :
a Chufe tnen," —Here grief o'erflow'd her breast,
And tears burflout, too long fupprefs'd.—
The Child, whose tears and chiding join'd,
Supposed Papa, displeased, unkind ;
And tried with all her little (kill,
To soothe his foft relenting will :
,c Do," cried the lifper, " Pappa ! do
" Love dear Mamma ! Mampia loves you !"
Subdued, the source of manly pride,
No more his looks his heart belied ;
The tender transport tore'd its way :
They both confefs'd each other's sway ;
And prompted by the social smart,
Breast rufh'd to b'reaft, and heart to heart;
Each clafp'd their Betsey, o'er and o'er ;
And Tom, drove empty from the door.
Ye that have pafTions for a tear,
Give nature vent, and drop it here.
REMARKS ON THK ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
TT is a point of considerable importance in learning a language,
r t P.°k t . ain a knowledge of the minute diftindions in the
ngnincation of words. There is a difference in the meaning of
truth and veracity which is often overlooked ; for we often hear it
laid that a man is a man of truth and veracity. If these words
mean the fame thn~, they need not be used ai the fame time. T
fate is, truth is of Saxon origin, and comprehends the f nfe of
both the Roman derivatives verity and veracity. Vtrit• ;s a dcclu
ration agreeable tofaft • veracity is the difpojttion of a per/on to f.c k
agreeable to fid. The Romans had two words >o exp ess the ti.'o
ideas ; the Saxons had one word only for both, viz. truth. Wn n
i U / y -> a man is a man of truth, I fay all that is compre
hended in faying, he is a man of truth and veracity ; for in Saxon,
a man of truth, is in Latin derivatives, a man oj verity and veracity.
Thcdiftin&ion between obferveand remark is nearly loft incom
tnon practice. Obfcrve is to fee, and remark, to relatefomething Jeen.
xi- • lVV '° worc^s are confounded, tor it is often said, and the
practice is so general as to render it good Englilh, that I observed
to him instead of I remarked to him. I n\dke this remark to fliew
now natural we lose primitive diftinftions which were reallv ufe
rul.
Cufiorn and habit are also confounded in the fame manner. Cus
tom is a cause of which habit is the effect. Cuflom is a pia£lice con
tinued or often repeated, which produces an effect upon the body or
mind, called habit. Thus late writers, copying the French dans I'
habitude, fay, in the habit of doing a thing. This is a late innova
tion. Habits exist in persons, but how can persons be in their
habits ? To have a habit js correct; to be in the practice of a thing
n. C °ij ' 1/1 the habil is wrong. The French dans I'habitude
Ihould not be rendered in the habit, but in theprattice, for habitude
in trench, answers to both the Englifti words cuflom or ptaflice,
Bnd hahlt - \Amer. Mer.]
Improvements a?id Additions to Mr, Bo wen's
Exhibition of Wax-Work,
HIS Excellency Benjamin Franklin, Esq. A Philadelphian
Beauty. Peace, (an elegant figure) with her Olive Branch.
Plenty, with wreaths of Flowers, basket of Fruit, &c.
TICKETS, at one quarter dollar, may be had at Mr.
Jamcs Bryson's, No. 4, Third, below Market Street', where the
exhibition is open from 10 o'clock in the Morning, until 9 every Evening.
N. B. MINIATURE and PORTRAIT PAINTING
done at the fame place, on reasonable terms.
Philadelphia, Oft. 30, 1790.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, *)
Oiiober 14, 1 790. J
NOTICE is hereby given, That Propofah "will be received at
the Office of the Secretary of the Treasury, to the 30th day
of November next, inclusive, for the fuppiy of all Rations which
may be required for theufe of the United States, from thefirft day
of January to the thirty-Qrft day of December 1791, both days in
elufivc, at Springfield, in the State of Maflfachufetts, and the Poftof
Wefl-Point, in the State of New-York.
The Rations to be fupplicd, are to consist of Arti
cles, viz. One pound of Bread or F lour,
One pound of Beef, or \ of a pound of Pork,
Half a jill of Rum, Brandy, or Whisky,
One quart of Salt, }
Two quarts of Vinegar, (
Two pounds of Soap, ( P r ' 100 rat, " ns '
One pound of Candles, )
Separate Proposals may be made for each place, fpccifying the
foweft price pr. ration. N« credit is required,
Gazette of the United States:
PubliQied at the Seat of the National Government,
Compiling
I. ARLY arid authentic accounts of the Proceedings ofCongrefs
jLi —I is LautSj Afls, and Resolutions, communicated lo as to
form an history of the tranfa&ions of the national government.
11. Impartial Sketches oj the Debates oJCongrefs.
111. tffays on the great fubje&s of Government; also upon the
local and national rights of the American citizens, as founded up
on the national or ltate Constitutions ; and upon every other fub
je&, which may appear fuiuble for newspaper difcufiion.
IV A series of calculated to catch the " living man
ners as they rife," and to point the public attention to objects
that have an important reference to domellic, social and public
happiness.
V. The Interefls of the United States as connected with their
literary Institutions ; religious and moral objects ; improvements
in Science, Arts, Education and Humanity; their foreign
treaties, alliances, connexions, See.
VI. Every species of Intelligence which may affe£l the commer
cial, agriccltural, manufacturing, or political interests of the Ame
rican natioA.
VII. A chain of Domeflic Occurrences.
VIII. A series offoreign articles of Intelligence.
IX. The fate oj the Funds ; Courses of Exchange ; Prices Current.
Publiftied every Wednesday and Saturday.
The price to fubferibers, (exclusive of postage) Three Dol
lars per annum.
The firft semi-annual payment to be made at the time of sub
scribing : The r econd at the end of the year.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Will be received, in all the capital towns upon the Continent ; tilfo at No.
69, Market-Street, between Secortdand Third Streets, Philadelphia.
AT this important crisis, the ideas that fill the mind, are preg
nant with events of the greatcft magnitude—to strengthen and
complete the union of the States—to extend and protedk their
commerce—to explore and arrange the national funds —to restore and
eftabhlh the public credit—will require the energies of the patriots
and sages of our country —flenccthe propriety ofencreafmg the me
diums of knowledge and information.
AMERICA, from this period begins her national exigence —
" THE world is all before jier"—the wifdorn and fol
-I)—the misery and profpsrity of the 4mpi?es, Jlates, and kingdoms,
which have had their day npon the great theatre of time, and are
now no more, suggest the moll important mementos —these, with
the rapid series ol events, in which our country has been involved,
have taught the enlightened citizens of the United States, that free
pom and government—liberty and laws, are inseparable.
1 his convi&ion led to the adoption of the new constitution ;
for however various the sentiments, refpefting the merits of this
system, all good men are agreed jn the nccellity of an efficientfe
deral government.
A paper, therefore, eftatlifhed upon national, independent, and
impartial principles—which Ihall take up thepremifed articles,upon
a competent pl an, it is presumed, will be highly interesting,
and meet with public approbation and patronage.
The Editor of this publication is determined to leave no avenue
©f information unexplored He solicits the a {Ma nee oi' persons
of Jeifure and abilities—which, united with his own assiduity, he
flatters himfclf will render the Gazette of the United States not
unworthy general encouragement and is, with due refpeft,
the public's humble fcivant, ~ THE EDITOR.
April 15, 17QO.
J)
THIS publication commenced with the
present government of the United States:—lts
i principal objects are comprised in the above plan ;
J iliry have been thus far attended to, according
> tr> the bed abilities of the Editor—and that thev
j arc .teemed interesting, has been evinced by the
: genera] approbation which the paper has receiv
! Ed, and the exteniive circulation it hasebtained :
It lhall be the aim of the Editor to keep up the
I spirit of his plan—every communication condu
cive to that point, will be gratefully received
Freedom, Government, Union and Peace constitute
the happiness of every country—the United States
in a particular manner, have all their present
enjoyments, and future hopes, suspended on the
piefervation of these ejftntial pillars of human feli
city: In an ardent wilh to promote these great
1 objetts, the « Gazette of the United States" ori-
I ginated—to these it has been—and shall be fedu.
loufly devoted ; and while it continues an impar.
tial vehicle to the public of governmental tran
sactions, and interesting information on the most
important fubjerts of life, the Editor cannot fail
ef public encouragement.
Agreeable to the original design, the publica
tion is now commenced in Philadelphia, the feat
los government for the United States The pa
tronage of the citizens of this metropolis is here
by solicited :—Thofe who may wifti to form a
judgment of the work, are refpecftfu! ly informed
that the firft volume (from April 1789, to April
1790) maybeinfpe&ed at thehoufeof the Editor
No. 69, Market-Street. '
The second volume commenced in April last •
The Editor can supply the numbers com piece from
that period—which contain the laws of the second
session of Congress—and the debates and proceed
ings of the house of Reprefcntatives, during four
months of thefeflion. 6
Among the innumerable bleflings derived to
the people of the United States from the present
general government, there is none productive of
happier effects than that fpiric of universal
citizenship which has in a great measure era
dicated party and local diftincftions.and now forms
a great national feature in the American charac
ter-—-Jhe Kditory therefore, with confidence
takes his Itation in the capital of the United
States, being fully perluaded, that in proportion
to his merits, he will receive the parronao- e of
the public. JOHN FENNO
Philadelphia, Nov. 3, 179 c.
632
PLAN OF THE
(A NATIONAL PAPER.)
CONDITIONS.
To the PUBLIC.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,\
Sept. 28, 1 790. j
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be received at the
Office ot the Secretary of theTreafury, until the 31ft day
of December next inclusive, fertile building of a LIGHT HOUSE,
nearly of the dimensions proposed by the late Commillioneis of
Virginia and Maryland, upon the lot of land on Cape Henry, in
the County of Princess Ann, and State of Virginia, lately ceded for
that purpofeto the United States. It is desired, that the proposals
may leave the election, whetfer the building above the foundation
ftiill be of brick orltone, and as the colt and charges of those ma
terials vary, it is expe&ed, that a corresponding difference will b«
made in the terms offered.
The foundation of the Light-House is to be of (lone, and funk,
to the depth of thirteen feet below the water table, over the top of
which the pavement is to be laid. The diameter thereof is to "be
twenty seven feet fix inches, with a vacancy of about nine feet in
the centre.
The diameter ofthe base isto be twenty fix feet, at which place
the thicknefa of the walls is to be fix feet. The height from the
bottom of the water table to the top of the {lone work is to be fc--
venty two feet,wherethe diameter is to be sixteen feet fix inches,and
the thickness of the walls three feet. The form is to be an o&agoi
having three windows in the eait, and four in the weft. If it be
built of brick, it is to be faced with the glairy kind, if of itone it
is tobe faced with hewn or hammer-drelied stone.
On the top ofthe stone work is to be a>floor of joists, bedded
therein, planked over and covered with copper, extending about
two feet eight inches beyond ihe wall, thereby forming an eve
which is to be finifhed with a cornice, the whole having a defccnt
from the centre fufficient to throw off the water.
The lanthorn is to be fupportcd by eight polls of wrought Iron
of three inches square and twenty feet in length, ten feet of which
are to be wrought into the stone wall on the inner part at each
corner. The diameter of it is to be ten feet, leaving a platform on*
the oufide thereof of about fix feet in width. All the work above
this is to be of iron and copper. The lanthorn is to be ten feet
high, having a semicircular roof of five feet more, with iron raft
ers covered with copper. The whole space between the ports sup
porting the lanthorn, is to be occupied by the fafties, which are
to be made of iron, each sash is to have twenty-eight panes of
glass, twelve by fourteen inches. One of the fafyeson the fou'.h
weft fide is to be hung with hinges for a dootto go out upon the
platform, from the outer part of which to the roof ol the lanthorn
is to be a frame of iron covered with a net work of strong brass
wire, to preserve theglafs from injuries by hail and flights of
birds in the night,
The ratters of the lanthorn are to be well faftened to an iron
hoop, over which is a copper funnel, through which the smoke
may pass into a large copper ventilator in the form of a man's
head, capable of containing one hundred gallons. This head is to
be lo placed as to be turned by a large vane on the spire above it,
that the hole for venting the smoke may always be to the leeward.
Eight dormant ventilators of fix inches diameter are to be fixed
111 the roof of the lanthorn.
A close stove is to be provide 4 and fixed in the lanthorn, which
is to be furnifhed with eight lamps, each capable of containing fix
quarts, hung in two tiers over each other transversely. There are
to be fix flights of (lairs to afccnd to the lanthorn, the entrance to
which is to be by a door covered with copper. The building is
to be furniftied with two conductors, to fecure't from the effects
of lightning.
A frame house is to be built for the keeper, twenty feet square,
two stories high, with a frame kitchen ; the whole to be finifticd
with lath and plaifter.
A vault for the storage and fafe keeping of the oil is to be built
of stone at a convenient distance, twelve feet wide, and twenty in
length. It is to be arched, and covered with earth or femd, over
which a lned is to be built, and it is to be furnifhed with eight
strong cedar cisterns with covers, each capable of containing two
hundred gallons of oil. The entrance isto be secured by a strong
door.
Good fccurity for the faithful performance of the contrast will
be expc&ed. Payments on account will be made at proper sta
ges of the work, and the balance will be paid on its completion :
or, if a suitable difference ihould be made in theterrm, cash will
be advanced for the purchase of materials and provisions.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,"]
tt- u. t , Sept. 20, 1790- J
I u IS y made known, that the following arrangement lies
J. been adopted towards carrying into execution the Ast, mak
ing piovifion for the debt of the United States, viz.
Loan-Office Certificates, andthofeiffued by the Commiflion
ers for the adjustment of accounts in the fevcral States, will be re
ceivable only at the Treasury and by the refpeftivc Commissioners
ot Loans within the States in which they were refpeftively issued.
The Certificates issued by the Register of theTreafury, by the Vay
Mailer General and Commiflfioner of Army Accounts, bv dif"
CommifTioners for the adjuftraent of the Accounts of the Quarter
Mailer's, Commissary's, Hospital, Cloathfng, and Marine Depari
partments, Indents of Interest, and Bills of Old Emission, wilt
be receivable lndifcriminatelv at the Treasury and bv the Cou
miffioners of all the States, the situation of the Checks has dicta
ted this arrangement for the greater security of the public agamft
impositions by forged or counterfeit paper, and which theslaideta
have been adopted from the fame consideration for the cxccution
ot the business are such, that it will give facility and dispatch, if
applications from the Holders of Certificates of the Register of
a r " ur y and of tt,e Paymofler General, and Commilfioner of
nny Accounts, and of the Commissioners of the five Depart
ments above mentioned, are made in the lirll instance at the Trea
sury ; and if applications from the Holders of Loan Office Certi
icates, and Certificates issued by the Commiflioners for the adjust
ment of Accounts in the refpe£tive Stales, are made in liks man
n>"r to C° m tni{lioners of Loans within the States in which they
were issued. Transfers can afterwards be made to any Office that
tlie Proprietors ofthefe Certificates yiay defu».
TJURSUANT to a Resolve or ast of Congress of the 10th day
X of May, 1780, relative to the dcllruftion of Loan-O.Tice Cer
tihcates by accident ; notice is hereby given to all whom it may
concern, that on the 2d day of January 1780, the house occupied
by the fublcriber in Market-Street, Philadelphia, took fire and
was consumed, in which was lodged a number of Loan-OlSce
certificates as pr. lift below, all which were destroyed by the said
hre -Therefore if any person, hath any objection why the said
Certificates mould not be renewed, agreeable to the resolves of
ongrets, they must make them before the expiration of three
months, trom the date hereof.
Invoice of Loan-Office Certificates dejlroyd in the houfi oj John lhlU T
on the 2d day oj January 1780.
'"»• No - Dol.
March 13. 1 Samuct Cooke, jail. New-York, 601
'673 i ditto. dc. 60a
Dollars, 1200.
In test mony whereof I have signed the prcfent for pub
w v h " li 2 n * HOLKER.
hew-}ork, Jfuly 26tk, 1790.
BC7* SUBSCRIBERS in the City and Stats o
New-Tor/:—and to the Eaflward as far as Boflon*
vi. llplcafe to pay their arrearages to Mr. P. We tm ore,
"r lr New-York—who -jiill also rsteive
JubJeriptions for the Gazette.