PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, MAIfCtT.STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 56', of Vol. ll.] Wednesday, November io, 1790.
The Tablet No. 148.
[The lift number was by mistake put 149 ]
" There is unavoidably a congeniality of charatter
between the tone of government and the jlats oj so
ciety."
IN calculating the force of those reasons which
have a favorable a I'pert upon the freedom
and prosperity of a community, wc lhould firlt
look to the character of the inhabitants, and fix
that as the molt eflential point on which the ques
tion turns. The state of society, more than the
form of government, is to be regarded ineftimat
jngthe chances infavorof public liberty. For,
thoughone political conflitution may have a pre
ference over another, yet none that can be im
agined will render liberty secure, unless there
be a predisposition of other causes to make it so.
In the United States the form of government is
supposed to be as perfect, as can be framed by
any light that can at present be derived from hu
man wisdom ; but our situation would be fur less
eligible than it is, if the duration of our freedom
did not reft 011 a better foundation than words
and stipulations defined 011 parchment. While
it is the personal interest of the great bulk of
the inhabitants to pursue lucli a (yftem of condudt
as will best comport with the views of the go
vernment, there is the ftrougelt pledge, both on
the part of the people and their rulers, that each
will regard the prosperity of the other. Every
class of citizens is, in f'ome measure, a check upon
other clafles ; and every individual of the fame
class isa check upon other individuals. No man
can prosper in his occupation, and to do which is
the main desire of his heart, unless he be honest
and industrious ; and while he is so, the govern
ment can calculate upon him as a fafe and ufeful
citizen. The legislature must be formed of men
who participate of the national character; and
as our inhabitants have fomany motives of a per
sonal nature, to prefer a virtuous life to a vicious
one, we may expedt good men, and of course a
good government. That circuniftance, which
more than any other, promises duration to a go
vernment, is that the citizens feel and acknowlege
their private interest to be connected with that
of the public. This at once removes those sour
ces of di(content and insurrection which flow from
the belief, that the views of the government are
at variance with the interest of individuals.
The final left deviation from rectitude in any
public officer, or a want of abilities to execute his
trust with propriety, can never elude the public
discernment. It is therefore a thing to be always
expected that our public administration will be
able and virtuous. There i 5 little danger that
any person, from intrigue or powerful connec
tions, can long Atftain an dffice which he does
not fill with some degree of reputation to liim
felf, and advantage to the community. Perhaps
fouie worthier man maybe left out of office, but
he who fills it, mult poll'efs fotne (hare of merit.
The body of electors, in this country, are too
numerous to be bribed in any instance, and they
generally have too independent a temper to se
cond the views of vile and mercenary candidates.
The moll that is to be feared from cabal and par
ty influence, is that the very belt men may not
always succeed again It characters of inferior pre
tensions ; but he who does succeed mull be a per
son far removed from the basest of mankind.
Few of those causes, which kept the ancient
republics in such tumult and agitation, exist in
this country. Our notions and regulations ref
pedting property are well known and defined.
The laws are generally approved
■of; and the citizens are apt to view a man as their
«nemy, who avows himfelf an enemy to law and
justice. A defect of knowledge in points refpecl
ing property, and an imperfect system of lavvs,
were the principal causes why the turbulent tem
per of antient times could not be restrained.
There were less cnergetic motives for peace and
tranquility, than for war and confufion, accord
ing to the ideas which the antients had imbibed
of liappinefs and dignity. But a turn of think
ing very different from that prevails among our
citizens. And while they are i'o solicitous to pur
ine their various callings, undisturbed by factions
or wars, it mult be their most ardent desire that
the laws flionld be equal and energetic, and that
their execution fliould, under no pretcnce, be
impeded. f'Te hi continued.)
[The following beautiful, and animated description of
the "Advantages or Commerce," written
by a jttftly celebrated Englifb author, can never be
mad without pleasure.]
ADVANTAGES Of COMMERCE.
THERE it no place in town which I so much
love to frequent as the Royal Exchange.—
It gives me a secret fatisfaction, and in some mea
fuie gratifies my vanity as an Englilhman, to fee
(o rich an assembly of my countrymen and fo
reigners consulting together upon the private
business of mankind, and making this metropolis
a kind of emporium for the whole earth. I mull
confefs, I look upon high change to be a grand
council, in which all considerable nations have
their representatives. Factors, in the trading
world, are what ainbaflidors are in the political
world They negociate afEiirs, conclude treaties,
and maintain a good correspondence between
those wealthy societies of men, that are divided
from one another by seas and oceans, or live on
the different extremities o: a continent. I have
often been pleased to hear disputes adjulted be
tween an inhabitant of Japan and an alderman
of London, or to fee a fubjecft ot the great Mogul
entering into a league with one ot the Czar of
Mufcovj. lain infinitely delighted in mixing
with tliefe several minilters ot commerce, as they
are diltingiiilhed by their different walks and
different languages. Sometimes lam jollied a
mong a body of Armenians ; sometimes I am 101 l
in a crowd of Jews ; and sometimes make one in
a group of Dutchmen. lam a Dane, a Swede,
or Frenchman, at different times ; or rather fan
cy myfelf like the old pbilofopher, who, upon
being alked what countrynMin he was, replied,
That he was a citizen of the world.
This grand scene of business gives me an in
finite variety of solid and fobftantial entertain
ment. As I am a great Jover of mankind, ray
heart naturally overflows with pleaf'ure at the
fight of a prof'perous and happy multitude ; in
somuch, that, at many public solemnities, I can
not forbear expressing my joy with tears. For
this reason, I am wonderfully delighted to fee
such a body of men-thriving in their own private
fortunes, and at the fame time promoting the
public flock ; or, in other words, raising eltates
for their own families, by bringing into their
country whatever is wanting, and carrying out
of it whatever is fuperfluous
Nature feenis to "have taken a particular care
to difleminate her bleflings among the different
regions of the world, with an eye to this mutual
intercourse and traffic among mankind, that the
natives of the several parts of the globe might
have a kind of dependence upon one another,
and be united together bj their common interclls.
Almoll: every degtee producesfomethingpeculiar
to it. The food often grows in one country and
the sauce in another. The fruits of Portugal are
corrected by the products of Barbadocs ; the in
fullon of a China plant sweetened with the pith
of an Indian cane. The Philippine iftands give
a flavour to our European bowls. The single
dress of a woman of quality is often the produtft
of an hundred climates. The muff and the fan
come together from the different ends of the
earth. The scars is sent from the torrid zone,
and the tippet from beneath the pole. The bro
cade petticoat rises out of the minds of Peru, and
the diamond necklace out of the bowels of 111-
doftan. *
If we consider our own country in its natural
profpeifl, without any of the benefits and advan
tages of commerce, what a barren uncomforta
ble spot of earth falls to our (hare ! Natural his
torians tell us, that no fruit grows originally
among us besides hips and haws, acorns and pig
nuts, with other delicacies of the like nature;
that our climate, of itfelf, and without the assist
ance of art, can make no farther advances to
wards a plum than a floe, and carries an apple
to no greater perfection than a crab ; that our
melons, our peaches, our figs, our apricots, and
our cherries, are strangers among us, imported
indifferent ages, and naturalized in our Englilh
gardens; and that they would all degenerate and
fall away into the tralh of our own country, if
they were wholly neglected by the planter, and
left to the mercy of our l'un and foil.
Nor has traffic more enriched our vegetable
world than it has improved the whole face of na
ture among us. Our Ihips are laden with the
harvest of every climate ; our tables are stored
633
[Whole N0.'160.]
witlifpices, and oils, and wines ; our rooms are
filled with pyramids of china, and adorned vvir'i
the workmanlhip of Japan; our morning's draught
comes to us from ilie reraoteft corners of tile
earth ; we repair our bodies by the drugs of
America, and repose onrfelves under Indian ca
nopies. My friend, Sir Ylndren), calls the vine
yard of France, our gaidens ; the spice-islands,
our hot-beds ; the Persians, our silk weavers ;
and the Chinese, our porters. Nature, imleecf,
furnilhes us with the bare neceflaries of life ; ,but
traffic gives us a great variety of what is ufeful,
and at the fame time supplies us with every thing
that is convenient and ornamental. Nor is it the
least part of this our happiness, that, while we
enjoy the remotelt products of the noith ami
south, we are free from those extremities of wea
ther which give thein birth ; that our eyes are
refreihed with the green fields of Britain, at the
fame time that our palates are feafted with, fruits
that rife between the tropics.
For tliefe reasons, there are not more ufeful
members in a commonwealth than merchants.
They knit mankind together in a mutual inter
course of good oflices, dillribute the gifts of na
ture, find work for tlie poor, add wealth to 'the
rich, and magnificence to the great. Our Englilli
merchant converts the tin of his own country in
to gold, and exchanges his wool for rubie:s. The
Mahometans are cloathed in our Britifli manufac
tures, and the inhabitants of the frozen zone
are warmed with the fleeces of our Bleep.
When I have been upon Change, I have often
fancied one of our old kings itanding in person
where he is represented in effigy, and looking
down upon the wealthy concourse of people with
which that place is every day filled. In this cafe,
how would he be surprised to hear all the lan
guages of Europe spoken in this little spot of his
former dominions, and to fee so many private
men, who, in his time, would have been the *af
fals of some powerful baron, negociating, like
princes, for greater funis 'of money than were
formerly to be met with in the royal treasury !
Trade/ without enlarging the British territories,
has given us a kind of additional empire ; it has
multiplied the number of the rich, made our
landed eflates infinitely more valuable than they
were formerly, and added to them an accelfion of
other estates as valuable as the lands tliemfelves
AMERICAN ANTIQUITY
ON the eastern fliore of the Miffifippi, in near 47 degrees north
latitude, end some miles below Lake Peppin, is a level open
plain, on which is an elevation, which, even al a distance, has
the appearance of an entrenchment ; and, upon the flrifreft exam
ination, it appears that it has really been intended for this put
pofe many centuries ago. Notwithstanding it is now covered
with grass, it is plainly to be discovered that it was once a breait
work about foui feet in height, extending the belt part ot a mile,
and fufficiently capacious to cover five thousand men. Its form
is somewhat circular, and its flanks reach to the river. Though
much defaced by time, every angle is diftinguiflaable. and appears
as regular, andfafhioned with as much military skill as if planned
by Vauban himfelf. The ditch though not very visible, yet there
are evident marks of there certainly having been one. From its
situation there can be no doubt that it must have been designed
for a fortification. It fronts the country, and its rear is covered
l>y the river, nor is there any riling ground for a considerable
way that commands it, and only a few draggling oaks are to lie
feci) near it. They who observe this work with a fkilful eye, fee
in it evident traces of very great antiquity ; but it is hard to tell
how it could have been produced in a country that has hitherto,
according to the generally received opinion, been the feat ot war
like untutored Indians alone, whose whole flock of military
knowledge ha&only, till within two centuries amounted to draw
ing the bow, and whose only breast work, even at present, is.the
thicket. It is hoped the time is not far diflant when perlons of
{kill will be enabled by the bounty of the public, to investigate
not only this but many other American antiquities, and by this
means give us some idea of the antient inhabitants, and ft ate ot
regions, that we at present believe to have been from the carl left
period only the habitation of savages.
LONDON, August 28.
Extrali of a letter from Warsaw, Augufi 3.
AMONG the different objedts occupying the diet
latterly, they have decreed the suppression
of Abbeys, of which the revenues, amounting to
500,000 florins, are applied to the invalids and
the hospitals.
" In order to attach the united Greeks of Vol
binia and the Ukraine to the republic, they have
agreed to admit their archbilhop into their se
nate.
For those yet disunited, they reserve them
femfelves to form such resolutions as may make
them cordially co-operate at length. ,
" The ancient yoke of aristocracy fliackling
the people, is about to be broken tore vtfr, and the
heretofore fettered fubjedi, come and
boldly aflert and maintain the dignity and inde
pendence of his being."
oLONDON, Aug. 31.
Tlie States General have admitted the heredi
tary Prince ofOraoge to a feat in the Council of
State, and they have intimated at the fame time,
that if the Stadtholder shall appoint hint a gene
ral in their armies, they will allow 10,000 florins
a year of extra pay.
PARI S, Aug. 16.
M. Dupre has publilhed, " A juftification of the
Duke of New Orleans," but the tide of popular
opinion runs so strongly against the prince, that
it is impolfible to turn it by cool reasoning.——
" Epaininondas, (fays the author, at the conclu
iion of his pamphlet) was condemned by his un
grateful countrymen for having defeated their
enemies ; and Louis Philippe Joseph, Duke of Or.
leans, is condemned for having saved ths em
pire of France."
M. de Cazalet, who fooghta duel with M. Bar
nave., is in a fair way ot recovery.
Since the National Aflembly's decree, which
fupprefles all titulary and borrowed names, with
all the d e s that.can be found in the French fami
lies, the players have refunied their humble ap.
pellations; Laßine, Dugazon, Fleury, and Beau
lieu, are nowcalled Mattduit, Courgaud, Mefnard,
Thierriet, and Brernond. Why should you be
afhatned, gentlemen, to be ealled by your family
.names ? M. Guignard, (St. Priest) Madame Bru
ard (Genles and Sillely) and many other persons
of diftincftion, have set you the example. Were
Moliere and Voltaire alive, they would certainly
lign their letters Ptequelin and Arouet. Let your
condndlin life be blameless, and refle(ftthat Car
rick, Lork&in, Baron, and Brigard never altered
their names.
Avignon has published, in a manifefto, therea
fons For leaving the papal yoke j the pamphlet
«ontains but thirty-two pages, but abounds with
curious anecdotes refperting the adininiftering
jnftice under that ecclesiastical government. Two
men having had some words in a public ilreet,
began to fight; an hontfft fellow passing by, was
lucky to perfnade the antagonilts to de
lilt. The mcorney General, incensed at the loss
of a criminal suit at law, had the mediator arrett
ed, for having interrupted the coitrf; of jujiice :To
obtain his liberty, he was obliged to pay the ex
pences the affray would have produced in court.
For ten crowns, a debtor at Avignon, can obtain
a respite for five years, which vtas a quinquennial
brief; for the fame sum the creditor obtained
another brief, that annulled the respite. The
debtor could procure himfelf, for ten crowns
more, another delay, at a different tribunal ; so
that the debtors and creditors were incefTantly
leedingthe greedy leeches of justice—the former
to pay, the latter never to be paid.
" The general confederacy, fays the author
of afpirited pamphlet, Ibouldbe renewed every
twenty-five years, beginning from the present
one ; and take the place of chose jubilees, not
evangelic, but papal, to which we have too long
submitted. It is no longer the time toamufe and
seduce the people with indulgencies ; the entbu
fiafm of liberty, an attachment to their country,
and the virtues and courage of patriotism inuft
be inculcated to them."
M. I'Abbeßaynal, the celebrated historian, has
been restored, by adecree of the National Aflem
bly, to the rights of a citizen, of which he had
been deprived by an arret of the Parliament of
Paris, in 1781. Lewis the XVlth. notwithstand
ing the arret, had recalled the Abbe about two
years ago. but his religious tenets were always
anobftacle to his being re-instated.
St. GEORGE'S (Grenada) Aug. 20.
The following is the translation of a letter receiv
ed by his excellency general Matheiv, from Don
Jofttpb Maria Chacon, governor of Trinidad.
island of Trinidad, Sept. 4.
MOST EXCELLENT SIR,
I HAVE the pleasure to communicate to your
Excellency that thecuftomof acknowledgingand
declaring, for free, the fugitive slaves from the
other Antilles, in this island, has ceased accord
ing to the directions given me dn the Royal Or
der, which I have received, dined at Aranjuez,
1 7th of May last.
As his Majesty's intention is to flop the flight of
negroes, of that and the other islands who came
to this government to enjoy their freedom, I
thought proper (exclusive of the publication I
ordered the 28th Aaguft last) to acquaint your
Excellency of this circumstance—in order that
being informed in your government that the fu
gitive Haves from thence can have no manner of
protection here, that they may abstain from run
ing away from their tnafters, to whom, such as
henceforward may come here, will be returned,
in cafe they are reclaimed, and the property re
gularly proved.
I wifli for occasions to lliew your Excellency,the
honor of being, most excellent fir,
your attentive and rcfpedtful servant,
Joseph Maria Chacon.
His Excellency Edward Mathew, 7
governor-general «f Grenada. J
Shptsmber 24.
On Sun Jay last a Sp.nHh brig arrived here witli
a cargo of Logwood, .nd ten thousand dollars on
board This is the fiA veflel of that defcr.ption
that has come to an eitry at this port, agreea e
to the late amendmeit in the free-port ac't, y
which it isexpetfted nat the valuable trade wit 1
the Spaniards will be greatly advanced, as it is 110
longer confined to velels ot any particular ur
then.
LA3 O U R
Palma negata macrum, daiata rcdacit opinutn.- Hon
To Jink injhamt, Jrfwell with pride,
As the gay palm is grafted or deny* a. Francis.
THE multitudes thatfupport life by corporal Idiom
and eat their bretd in the five at of their brov)
commonly regard inaClhity as idlsnefs ; and have tit
conception that wearintfr can be contracted in an el
bow-chair, by now and'then peeping into a book am
musing the reft of the day : thefedentary and Jtudious
therefore, raise their ttivy or contempt, as they appeal
either to pojfefs the conveniencies of life by the msri
bounty of fortune, or to fuffer the want of them by re■
fujing to work.
It is, however, certain, that to think, is to labour .
and that-as the body is affeCted by the exercise of tht
mind, the fatigue of tht study is not less than of tht
field or the manufactory.
But the labour oj the mind, though it is equally
rijome with that of the body is not attended with tht
fame advantages. Exercise gives health, vigour, am
cheerfulnefs, found Jleep, and a keen appetite : Tht
effeCts ojfedentary thoughtfalnefs are difsafes that im
bitter and J})ortsn life, interrupted reft, tajlelefs meals
perpetual languor and taufelefs anxiety.
No natural inability to perform manual operations
has been obftrvtd to prtceedfrom d'tjinclination ; tht
rsluCtance, if it cannot le retrieved, may be surmount
ed ; and the artificer then proceeds in his work wit)
as much dexterity and exaCtness, as ij no extraordina
ry effort had been made to begin it : but with refpeC
to the productions of imagination and wit, a mere de■
termination of the will is not fuffic'tent ; there must bi
adifpojition of the mind which no human being can pro
cure, tr the work will have the appearance of a forcec
plan, in the production of which the tnduftry of art ha.
been fubjlitutcd for thevigour of nature.
Nor does this difpofttion always ensure success,
though the want of it never fails to render application
ineffectual, for the who fits down in the morn
ing fired with his subjeCt and teeming with ideas, often
finds at night, that what delighted his imagination of
fends his judgment and that he has loft the day by in
dulging apleafmg dream, in which he joined together a
multitude of splendid images without perceiving their
incongruity. (To be continued.)
From WEBSTER'S DISSERTATIONS on the ENGLISH LAN-
Of MODERN CORRUPTIONS in the ENGLISH
PRONUNCIATION.
I PROCEED now to examine a mode of pronouncing certain
words, which prevails iir England and some parts of America,
and which, as it extends to a vast number of words, and creates a
material difference between orthography and is a
matter of serious consequence.
To attack eftablifhet} customs is always hazardous ; for man
kind, even when they fee and acknowledge their errors, are sel
dom obliged to the man who exposes them, The danger is in
creased, when an opposition is made to the favoiite opinions of
the great ; for men, whose rank and abilities entitje them to par
ticular refpeft, will sooner dismiss their friends than their preju
dices. Under this con vision, my present situation is delicate and
embarrafling : But as some facrifices must often be made to truth ;
and as I am corifcious that a regard to truth only diftatcs what I
wriie, I can sincerely declare, it is my wifli to inform the under-
Handing of eve™ man, without wounding the feelings of an indi
vidual.
The pra&ice to which I allude, is that of pronouncing d, t, and
J preceding u ; which letter, it is said, contains the found of e or y
and oo ; and that ofcourfc tducation must be pronounced edyucation ;
nature, natyure ; and fvperior, fyuperior : From the difficulty ot
pronouncing wjiich, we naturally fall into the found of dzhy tjh,
and yft ; Thus education becomes edzhucation or education ; nature
becomes natfhure or nachure ; and fupcrior becomes/Superior.
How long this pra&ice has prevailed in London, I cannot as
certain. There are a few words, in which it seems to have been
universal from time immemorial ; as pleasure, and the other Words
of that analogy. But I find no reafou to suppose the practice of
pronouncing nature, duty, nachure, juty, prevailed before the period
of Gai rick's reputation on the llage.
On the other hand, the writers on the language have been silent
upon this point, till within a few years ; and Kendrick speaks of
it as a Metropolitan pronunciation, supported by certain mighty Jine
fpeaken*, which implies that the pra&iceis modern,and pioves it
to be local, even in Great Britain. But the prattice has prevailed
at court and on the Itage for fcveral years, and the reputation of a
Garnck, a Sheridan and a Siddons, has given it a very rapid and ex
tensive diffufion in the polite world. As the innovafion is great
and extends to a multitude of words, it is necessary, before we
embrace the practice in its trtmoft latitude, to examine into its
propriety and confequcnces.
The only reasons offered in support of the practice, are, the
Englifti or Saxon found of u, which is said to and euphony,
or the agreeablenefs of the pronunciation.
But permit me to enquire, on what do the advocates of this
prattice ground their affenion, that u had in Saxon the fouud of
eu or yu ? Are there any teftiroonies to support it, among old wri
ters of authority ? In the course of my reading I have discovered
none, nor have I ever fecn one produced or referred to.
Will it be said, that yu is the name of the letter ? But where
did this name originate ? Certainly not in the old Saxon practice,
for the Saxons cxpreffed this found by era, or eo : And I do no't
recoiled a single word of Saxon origin, in which the warmed
sticklers for the pradicc, give a this found, even in the present
age. Kendrick, who has investigated the powers of the English
letters with much more accuracy than even Sheridan himfelf'ob
ferves, that we might with equal propriety, name the other vow
els in the fame manner, and fay, ya, ye, yi, yo, as well asji/f.
* Rhttaical Grammar, f'efixtd to his DiHijnarv, pit- v Lenin
>773- + Rk«. Grm. - 3 3 ' ' * "
634
GUAGE.
t'in union, uft, tec. ha: the found of )U ; but these ire all of
Latin originj and can be i»o proof thai u, bad, in S&xofi, the found
of ew or )v.
The whole argument is founded on amiftake. Uin pure En.
glifli has not the found ot ew ; but a found that approaches n ;
which is defined with great accuracy by the learned Walhs, who
wasoneofthe firft corredl writers upon Englilh Grammir, and
who'fe tieatife is the foundation ot Lowtn's introduction and alt
the bed subsequent compilations^.
This writer defines the Englilh lettet B In these words, " llunc
fonum Extranei tere alfcquenter, si dipthongum lu conentur pro
nunciare; nempe iexile literae 11, vel w preponentes ; [ut in H
panorum ciudad, civitas.] Non tamcn idem eji omnino'fonu;, quumvn,
ad ilium proxime acccdaf, eft enim iu fonus coinpofitus, at Ariglorum
et Gallorum u fonus Gram. Ling. Angl. Si£l.
This is precisely the idea I have ever had of the Englilh u ; a.
ccptthat I cannot allow the found to be perfctlly fiuiple. II »c
attend to the manner in which we begin the found ol u in pite,
abjure, truth, we (hall observe that the tongue is not pressed 10 the
mouth so clofcly as in pronouncing ethe aperture ol the orgins
is not so small; and X presume that grfod speakers, and am confi
dent that mod people, do not prronounce these words jleute, abjeure
tructb. Neither do they pronounce them Jloote,abjoore, trooth ; but
with a found formed by an easy natural aperture of the mouth,
between iu and 00 ; which is the true Englilh found. This found,
however obfenred by affectation in the metropolis of Great-Bri
tain and the capital towns in Amcrica, is still prefcrved by the
body of the people in both countries. There are a million de
fendants of the Saxons in this country who retain the found of a
in ill cases, precisely according to Wallis's definition. Ast any
plain countiyman, vthol'e pronunciation has not been exposed to
corruption by mingling with foreigners, how he pronounces the
letters, t, r,u,th, and he will not found u like eu, nor 00, but will
express the real primitive English u. Nay, if people wiih to make
an accurate trial, let them direst any child of faven years old, who
has had no previous inftru&ion refpe&ing the matter, to pro
nounce the words suit, tumult, due, &c. and they will thus ascertain
the true found of the letter. Children pronounce 11 in the molt
natural manner ; whereas the found of iu requires a considerable
effort, and that of to, a forced position of the lips. Illiterate per
sons therefore pronounce the genuine English u, much bolter than
those who have attempted to (hape their pronunciation according
to the polite modern praSice. As fmgular as this afiertion may
appear, it is literally true. This circumstance alone would be
fufficient to prove that the Saxons never pronounced a like yu, for
the body of a nation, removed fromthe reach of conquest and fear
from a mixture of foreigners, are the fa fed repositories of ancient
cuftom> and general practice 111 speaking.
But another ltrong argument agaihll the modern practice is,
that the pretended dipthone, iu or yu, is heard in fcarccly a fingte
1 word of Saxon origin. Almost all the words in which d, t and f
are converted into other letters, as education, due, virtue,ra\4ure, Ju-
perior.fupreme, See. are derived from the Latin or French ; foihat
the pia&ice itfelf isa proof that the principles on which it is built,
are falfe'. It is pretended that the Englifn or Saxon found of u
requires the pronunciation, edzhucation, natjliure, and yet it is in
troduced aim oft solely into Latin and French words. Such an in
consistency refutesthe reafoningand isa burlefquc on its advocates.
(To be continued-) ,
| His grammar was written in Latin, in the reign of Charles lid.
The work is Co scarce, that I have never been able to find but a Jingle.co
py. The author was one of the jounders of the Royal Society.
§ This found of u, foreigners will nearly obtain, by attempting t*
pronounce the dipthong iu ; tbat is, the narrow i before uor w ; fas in
the Span ifli word exuded, a city.) Yet the found (of u) is not exactly
the fame, altho it approaches very near to it; jor the found of iu is com
pound ; whereas the uof the Evglifh and French is a simple found"
[Lord Anfon, of nautical memory, built a Temple
at his feat iu Staffordshire, dedicated to the Winds :
Dr. Johnson-wrote a Latin Epigram, applicable to
thefubjett : The seven different translations, by as ma
ny different hands,-which follow,if they fbould appear
of the (lrum-kind,flat at both ends, they will at lea/1
furnifh an tnftance of that variety of words which
, may be made use of to convey the fame thought.
EPIGRAM.
GRATUM ANIMUM LAUDO, QUI DEBUIT OMNIA VENTIS,
QUAM BENE VENTORUM, TEMPLUM SURCERE JUHET.
TRANSLATIONS.
No. I.
SINCE to the Winds alone, heow'd the wealthy prize',
I praise the grateful foul that bade this temple rife..
No. 11.
THE grateful Avjon here adores the gales,,
That bore to wealth hisfwelling fails.
No. 111.
FROM profp'rous Winds, fincc profp'rous fortune refe,
This faue is rais'd to every wind that blows.
No. IV.
THIS temple to the Wind, his gratitude has raisM ,
As the Wind gave him a!/, 'tis fit the wind be prais'i},
No. V.
WELL, to the Winds, may he this fane afford,
Whom their propitious breath has made a Lord.
No. VI.
HAIL, thou great foul, whom gratitude bids raifr,
This offering to the Winds, which fwell'd thy prailc.
No. VII.
THE Winds Anfon all, his very food,
And to the \\ inds, this marks his gratitude ;
'Tisan ill Wind indeed that blows no good.
[At a mating of a number of the American commanders of velfefj,
now , n the fort of London, held at the Maryland Coffee-Houfi,in Co,n
hill, on the lid day oj July, 1790 ,for the putfoff of con fulling uion
the measurer that it might he prudent for them to 'adopt, in order % alle
viate the prejent fituatun of /earner. here belonging to the United Staler
oj America, the J allowing resolutions were unanmoujly voted :]
1. 'T'HAT anl American mariner in Great Britain, in beinj
-1 expoied to all the ngor of British press-warrants—in
being liable to the aflaults and outrages of a British press-gang—
an in eing eventually liable to be compelled into a foreign fcr
vice (except each commander of the velTel from which he is thus
forced, can trace him to that very (hip, whither h.c is dragged for
confinement, and will pof,lively (wear that he is a native Si sub
ject of the United States) must be considered in an unfafeaud tru
y a ormuig condition a fituatipn, not only inviting to atempor-
haaarding a total fubvcrAon of his most precious
J, h , at L he c0 "/cqucnces resulting from this unprotected fitua.
, e , ai . Cltlz^ li s» are so irksome to the feelings, and detri
? ° ■C ; lntcr s American mariners and comraandm,
t hr*lr .°^ in 0n l^°^ c present, fine* no minister or consul of
?k lS ° n tnC t ' 10 w hom, under fucli difficulties, they
j r V , V .' mor c propriety resort with complaints—and for re
is xpccnentihat they now have recoutfe to force otherfir per/on of tk4 fame country, de&ring him in their bclialf to
cause thcfc gricvanccs to be made known to the government of the
United States.
3. That the thanks of this meeting be cordially given to John \
Brown Cuttings Esq. for those able and patriotic efforts, which
have already much contributed, and by being continued, may,
in the opinion of this meeting, oill materially contribute to (often
the situation or procure the discharge of many American citizen*,
who have been, or now are, unjustly impieffed as fubje&s of this
kingdom-, and that he be. and hereby is, intreated to continue
those efforts ; and likewile feat he be eajneftly requeftcd, on the
part of this meeting;, to confFy to the government of the United
{States, those tafls, touching the pali and present situation of the
American mariners here, which any ot the American commanders
have communicated or ihall communicate to him tor th:s purpose,
together with such other truths perciueut to the fubjcdl as ho may
otiierwife acquire. (Staved)
J. Swift, Wm. Billings,
James Scott, John Osmon,
Tristram Barnhard, K. S. Tibbf.ts,
John Collet, G-Goosely.
B O S T O 30.
The idea suggested Qtf^^e ars (ince, by some
of the politicians of for an eilablijhment
*nd perpetuation of peace, is said to have
recently been the of attention in the Na
tional Afl'embly of France. With all good men
this mult be an event molt devoutly to be wished—
and altho the present hostile state of Europe ren
dersits confunimation improbable, it is not, ne
vertheless, impracticable. Between the several
civilized nations of the earth, such treaties might
be entered into, as, by precisely fpecifying their
boundaries, and the political and commercial
rights of each, would remove every occalion for
hostilities among themselves—and the fear of
their united chastisement must prevent the less ci
vilized parts of the world, disturbing the tranqui
lity of the other. The attempt is worthy of the
present era. The dawn ot reason is opening ra
pidly on the world—and if so potent, /o illultri
qus, and so generous a nation as France, gives a
lead, it must, we think, be followed.
NEWLONDON, October 29
Extract of a litter from Baffaterre, (Cuadaloupe) to
J . / • ./ • ' - ' «
a %entl:man in this town, dated Sept. 30.
" This morning three Hoops and a brig with
joo troops anil 200 volunteers on board, failed
from this port for MSftinico—they arc to join
the citizen parry against the General of that
island, who is at the head of 10,000 inulattoes anc 1
negroes." ...
From the fame
" 06i, I. Arrived, this morning, a (loop from
Martinico, advising that there has been a general
engagement between the general and the citi
zens—and, that the latterwere routed with the
loss offcven or eight hundred killed !"
We are informed ty a letter from Long-Jfland,
that on the 21 It inft'ant atrived at Sagg-Harbor
the brig Lucy, David Squires, mailer, from the
Cape of Good-Hope with 730 barrels of oil, 8,000
wt. bone, and a quantity ot furr ; the property
of Col. Benjamin Huntington andCapt. Stephen
Howel, of Long-Island.
N E W-Y O R K, November 5.
A Connecticut paper, of the Ift instant notifies all persons con
cerned in the Ohio puichafe to meet at the state-house in the city of
Hartford on the 24th instant, at ten o'clock in the forenoon. The
cause of this notification is said to be foine late accounts rtceived
from Mufkingum, fpecifying, that ccitain regulations have not
Jong since been adopted by thedircftors of the Ohio company,
that will endanger the properties of the non-rcfident proprietors,
unless some ineafrres ar> taken to prevent the confcquenccs.
YORK, O&ober 20.
We hear that the noted Cub Mare, belonging to Mr. Gibfon,
of Harford county, Maryland, [that had taken so many purses, in
the different States] was killed by accident, on the Lancaster race
aourfe, on Thursday last ; the circumstance, as related, is as fol
lows :—Previous to the horses starting for the second heat, two
bovs who had concluded upon a quarter ra.:« across the course,
near the winning post, happening to start nearly at the fame instant
with the horses that run lor the purse, one of their horses run lull
against the mare's h'.nd quarter, by which accident themarehad
her back broke, but her rider providentially received but little in
jury ; the unfortunate boy, to whose imprudence this fad disaster
may be attributed, hai his arm broke, his lefteyetorn out, and his
body much b« - uifed.—The mare never rose after, although Ihe liv
ed some hours.
RICHMOND, OA. 30.
Amount of Tobacco exported fiom the several Warchoufes in
Virginia, between the following periods —taken from the returns
made to the Auditor's and Solicitor's Office. Hogfhcads,
From O&ober 1786, to October 17$7>
From O&ober 1787, to O&ober 1788,
From Ottober 1788, to O&ober 1789,
Philadelphia, Nov. 10.
Accounts from the Weft-Indies inform, that in
J uly and August, there was very blowing weather
in several of the islands—particularly at Jamaica,
Barbado«s, and Antigua : At thefirftifland great
damage was done to the fliipping—and many loft
—the buildings, canes, and plantain walks, have
also fuffered much.
Several ports having arrived from Virginia,
fincethe account was received of the declaration
of war, without bringing any confirmation of that
report, we presume there is some mistake in the
business.
The legislature of the State ofNew-Jerfey has
a bill before it the prcfent session, for the en
couragement of manufactures; this laudable ex
ample will doubtless be followed by the other
States.
Thehon. If ill'taniSmith, Esq. is re-elected mem
ber of the house of representatives of the United
States, for one of the districts of S. Carolina.
General Charles C. Pinckuey, and Doctor David
Ram fay, are elected State Senators under the new
constitution of South Carolina.
Manufactures have heretofore labored under
infnperable difficulties in the United States, for
want of governmental support and encourage
ment : In Europe this has not been the cafe, par
ticularly in Great Britain, where bounties and
protecting duties, give their artizans every polTi
ble chance of success : Government certainly is
bound, on every patriotic principle, to place the
manufactures of the United States onfuch a foot-
ing as tit at thole branches, tvhich maybe advan
tageotifly prosecuted in this country, may not,
thro the fuccefsful rivalfhip of European artists,
be destroyed.
There are many articles which with proper
encouragement may be manufactured to great
advantage in the United States—nor would boun
ties bestowed by the government prove eventu
ally alofs ; as when once eftablilhed these manu
factures, besides being fold at a reduced price,
may become productive sources of revenue, and
in this way refund with interest, the expencein
curred by government in their eftablifliment.
Extratt of a letter from Fawttcville (N.C.) 03. 18.
" Having purchatcd some lands which I intend to cultivate in
this neighborhood, I have had fufficient opportunities to observe
the slovenly mode of farming in these pdtti. Cattle are left to
feed about iu the lanes or commons, in-such careless manner that
one would imagine the North-Carolina farmers studied how to
lose their manure—for certainly it is not po(Tiblc to devifc a more
wafting plan. As to tobacco, it so exhausts ground that this con
federation alone lliould put the patriotic planter out of humour
with that article, tfpeciallv, as it does not, like the grains that
afford the necell'aries, leave a futticiency of manure to restore what
is exhjulted from the foil. Our (JefcQs are not want of instru
ments, or knowledge of theprocefsin agriculture, but a want of
care in the choice and rotation of crops ; and in prcferving from
year to year both the foil and its productions. The idea of lay
ing up for a scarce year has entered into the heads of lew farmers
—like the Il'raelttes, " when they have much they have nothing
over." Other dei'efts arr, want of early mannrmg land, refu
fing to give it reft and neglecting to plough it in the tall and win
ter. lor my part as a farmer, as a good c'tizen, lam determin
ed to govern my future life by the following rules ;
l. To make tUe plough run as couftantly in winter as in sum
mer, and to manure during every winter—to keep debtor and cre
ditor with the fields.
2. To clear the fcnce ground once a year as clcar as the wheal
field.
3. To cut no timber for fuel but that fallen for other uses, or
blown down, by winds, and to cut no young timber when old
can be had.
4. Never to fuffer the team to return from the field without a
load ol fuel. I have observed farmers burning good firewood be
foie the plough, driving their teams home empty, and flopping
the plough next day to cut and haul young green wood from the
sorest. How p >2 this !
5. To borrow as little as possible, and return a loan instantly af
ter use.
6. To purciiafe nothing from the petty trafficker ; and nothing
from the regular merchant without ready cath or produce.
7. Never to contrail with the mechanic until I lhall have firft
obtained the mone} to pay him.
8. Never to "ive a penny to the man on the highway, who has
nothingbnta dram to fell to the traveller. Such wretches ate
foes to farming, they are pests to society.
9. Most religroully to observe the precifc time and place of all
fpectal appointments. [Dutly Adv.]
The eftablilhment of a Law Profefforlhip in the College of
Philadelphia promiles the raoft bencficial efictts. Such an eftab
lilhment has long been wanted. The appointment of Mr. Wilson j
to this profefforlhip must afford fatisfaftion to every pnr. The
extensive law information of this gentleman, added to his profound
political knowledge, will render his lettures advantageous and
interesting, not only to those engaged in the study of law, but
aifo to men of liberal education of cveiy profeflipn. u.
Further progress is daily making in the Geographical know
ledge of our country. An accurate map of the State of PainTyl
vama,it is expected, will soon be pubtilhed by Mr. Reading How
ell. Mr. William Fatham, of Virginia, has ifTued proposals for pub
liftiing by fubfeription, a large map of the louthcrn division of
the United States. The size will be nine feet by seven. It will
comprehend a pirt of New-Jcrfey and Pcnnfylvania, the whole
of Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina
and Ceorgia ; all the weft-rn territory of the United States, be
tween ?9°and 40.0. N. and a part of theSpanifh possessions. From
the extensive information, which Mr. Fatham appears to have col
lcfted, and the character of the gentlemen who recommend, thtre
j is every icafon to txpe£l that this map will be executed with ac
curacy and clegance. [Gen. Adv. ]
A correfpondentobferves, that the excellencies
ofthe new Constitution are daily unfolding them -
selves to the view of every unprejudiced friend of
the United States : Its truly republican princi
ples, which have thrown open the doors to vir
tue and abilities, and made the highest posts in
government acceflible to every man without ex
ception, have proved a powerful ftimulous on the
minds of our citizens to |diffnfe the bleflings of |
knowledge far and wide : In many parts of the
United States, new inltiturions are founded, and
the old ones enlarged : In most of our capital
towns, schools for the acquisition of every branch
of science have been recently eftabiflied,in which
the living and dead languages, mathematics, ge
ography, writing, arithmetic, niulic, drawing,
and polite accoinplifhments, may be acquired.
But amongall the various branches of education,
as no one demands, so none receives greater at
tention than our native language; this is now
taught grammatically, and with the happiest suc
cess ; owing principally to those excellent per
formances on the; fubjetft, which have been pub
lished by several of our own countrymen.
Nor has the mercantile part of the community
only, been attentive to this great fubjeftot educa
tion, seminaries of learning are constantly spring-
60,041
5 8 -544
5 8 » 6 73
635
ing up in the interioi* parts of'the United States ?
so that the rays of science are diffufed ill every
possible direction over the face of our country,
and in this, as well as in several other rcfpecfn,
" the wilderncfs may be said to bloflom like the
rose."
Other great and important effects jnftly as.
cribable to the salutary influence of the new go
vernment alone, may be the fubjeit of future pa
ragraphs.
Honor is often a I'ubftitute tor virtue : Tli ere
are many men, who from a regard to reputation
only, are rellrained from open a«Tts of baseness.
This consideration often influences to a just de-
cifion in great political queitions—even when
personal interelt would lead to a different con
duct : So long as a fair character is the principal
recommendation to public notice, we fliall be fa
vored with the semblance of virtue at least ; but
when a principle of honor lhall cease to operate,
and a contempt for the appearance, as well as the
reality of honelty and rectitude fliall cease to be
infamous, we may bid adieu to the freedom and
happiness of our country.
The revolution in France has produced one very
extraordinary event—and that is, the emigration
ofa large nntnber of clie citizens of that kingdom
to the United States : Among these are fevernl
persons who enjoyed titles of honor and diftinc-
tion, and pofleiled large fortunes in that country.
These emigrants have arrived in different parts
of the continent, at Alexandria, Philadelphia,
and New-York : They have already begun their
settlement at Sciota 111 the Ohio Country—many
of them poflefs great property—and being men
of learning, and abilities, and provided with au
extenlive library, and a philosophical apparatus,
the rigors of their hardy attempt in fettling an
uncultivated wilderness, will be abated, by a va
riety of obje<fls which are seldom connected with
I similar enterprizes.
While the enlightened friends of mankind in
all parts of the earth, are rejoicing in the free
dom and happiness of the United States under
the auspices of the new government, there are
some charadlers of so perverse a complexion, a
mongourfelves, that they will not permit the peo
ple so much as to think they are in an eligible
situation, tho all their senses confirm the obfer-
vation
How truly blefled are the natives of this high,
ly favored country ! where all that dignifies and
ennobles the human mind is the birth-right of
the citizen : A conscious independence of fpiric
designates their early childhood, and gathers
strength with increasing years—and as they ad
vance in lite,liberty refined, and feenred by equal
laws, gives full scope to all the best faculties of
the foul
No feudal fyftrm binds them to the foil ;
No chieftain grasps the profits of their toil {
Secure from cleric and despotic power,
Sweet hope hangs pendant on th' industrious hour.
If yon enquire of a thriving man of bufmefs,
who rises early and sets up late, and denies him
felfall the palfing amusements of life, what it
the ultimate objetfl of all his labor and felt deni
al ? >Ie will perhaps inform you, that his plan
is to arnafs a certain sum, and in the evening ol
life retire from business, to enjoy the fruits of
his indullry on a country feat—vain expecta
tion ; happinelsis always in our reach—or never.
" In our own breasts the happy goddess lies*
" And only gives her favors to the wife."
The truth is, the mind must be fitted to every
situation ; hence the meet- man of business is en
tirely out of his element, when left to silence,
solitude and contemplation.
A man in the city of London, who had accumu
lated a very liandfonie fortune by keeping a cliop
houfe, took it into his head to retire from busi
ness—he bought a neat box in the country, sur
rounded with gardens and the etcetera of rural
scenery ; but he soon found that he had cooked
too many steaks to find amusement in purling
rills and verdant plains.
He accordingly fold his villa, his horses and
carriage—returned to the city—gave a consider
able sum to his tenant to quit the residence he
had left, and resumed his former occupation.—
When employed in broiling a mutton chop over
his kitchen fire, he declared that he had never
been happy since he had exchanged the pleasure
of sweating over the coals for the insupportable
fatigue of aftill country life. ■
A Physician gave a Nobleman the lye—with
oreat mildnefsthe Nobleman said, l'lltake the lye
from him ; but I'll never take physic of him : Hi may
'speak what doth not become him ; I'll not do what ts
unworthy of me "
LATEST ARRIVALS AT THIS PORT.
Schooner Lark, Gardner, Nantucket, 9 days
Brig Margaret, Pomit, Miflifippi, 70.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 13/9 14/ pr. £
3 P r - Ct ' nts 7/'—7/3-
Defered 6 pr. Cents 5J9 6f.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl.and othev Certificates \if\ —12/3.
Indents 7/1 ——7^3.
Siate debts Bf —— 8
or 70 pr. cent,
or 36! do.
30 do,
6ii do.
do.
4 l i do-Discourses on Davila.
No. XXIII.—COSTINUED
Uliumque rcgem, fua roultitudo conljlulavcrat
THE King of Navarre, before he concluded
with the Queen, demanded «if her by the
immediate negotiators, two new conditions. I.
That they should take away from ilie Guises all
the employments they had at court, z. That li
berty of conscience Ihould be given to the Hugo
nots. From the time that Calvin had begun to
preach and to write, the firft feeds ot his doctrines
had been sown in the court of Henry, King of
Navarre, and Margaret of Valois, his consort, fa
ther and mother of rheQuecn Jane ; and as the
minds of these Princes were indisposed to the See
of Rome, which had (tripped them of their states,
under pretext of an excommunication, fulminar
ed by the Pope, Julius the fecon«l,againfl: France,
and its allies ; in the number of whom was the
King of Navarre ; they were easily persuaded of
a doctrine contrary to the authority of the Pope,
and which taught that the censures by which they
had 1 lolt their ttates, were [null. Tiie Calvinifti
cal mini Iters, frequenting the court of these
Princes, there taught their opinions, which had
call so deep roots into the mind of Qneen Jane,
that flie had abandoned the Catholic faith to em
brace Calvinifn. Since her marriage with An
thony of Bourbon, flie perlifted in the fame sen
timents. She had nearly converted her huiband,
by the vehement eloquence of Theodore Beza,
I'eter Martin Vermilty, and other 'miniflers who
retired into Beam, there to preach their opinions
in fiillliberty. The Prince of Condi, tlie admi
ral, and the other chiefs ofthe partyofthe Princes
of the blood, having also embraced Calvinism,
some with sincerity, and others to difgtiife their
political views, under the pretext of religion, the
King of Navarre persisted more constantly than
ever, to declare himfelf prote&or of the Hugo
nots. For this reason, he demanded that they
ihould grant to the Calvinifts liberty of conscience,
as an eflential condition of the treaty, opened
with the Queens This Princess answered that to
deprive the Guises of the dignities they held at
court, would be to go diretftly against the agree
ment which was in negotiation, and the resolu
tion taken to restore the tranquility of the King
dom. That these Lords who were very power
ful, and actually armed, would not endure an af
front so public and outrageous : but that, sup
ported by the Catholics and the majority of the
Hates, they would exert all their forces and ef
forts, to maintain their ground. She prornifed
however to employ, in due time, all lieraddrels,
to v diminifli their credit and power. As to the
liberty of conscience, flic convinced them that it
was a point too delicate, to be granted all at once:
That the Parliaments and even the States, would
not fail to oppose it : Butfheproniifed,in secret,
that in governing with the King of Navarre, lhe
would labor in concert with him, by indirect and
concealed ways, to seize all favorable occasions to
grant to the reformed all the liberty of confci
ence that might be possible. The Queen, yield
ing to the neceflity ofthe conjuncture, gave these
promises, without any intention to observe them :
She therefore delayed the execution of them,
with all her address. In fadl, she knew, or at
least believed, that nothing was more contrary
to the grandeur and interest ofher children,than
totally to depress the Guises, who served, admi
rably well, the pui'pofe of balancing the power
of the Princes of the blood. On the other hand,
the liberty of conscience granted to the Hugo
nots, would have offended the See of Rome, and
the other Catholic Princes, and scattered forever,
as (lie pretended, disorder and diflention in the
kingdom.
The coalition was on the point of conclusion,
when the King of Navarre declared that he
would determine nothing, without the advice
and consent of the Constable, Who had cured all
his gouts, fluxions and rheums, or in other words,
difmifled his pretexts and approached Oileans.
It was therefore neceflary to invent new projects,
to surmount this obstacle, which many imagined
the most difficult of all. The Queen knew to the
bottom, the charaiSer of the Coilllable, and that
nothing flattered hitnmore, than the part ofum
pire or moderator in every thing that palled
ni'ound him. She thought that by reitoring him 1
ihe fupream command of the army, and b/af
furiugliim, that it was from him that (he wished
to hold her own grandeur, and the fafety ofher
childreh ; Ihe would fix him easily in her interest,
nnd detach him equally from both parties. Thus,
with the advice of the King of Navarre, and the
Guises, who were returning to pacific sentiments,
and feemedto fubmitall to her will ; the ordered
the captains of the guards, and the governor of
Orleans to surrender to the Constable, at his en
trance into the city, the command of the armies,'
and to acknowledge him for their chief. These
marks of honor awakened in the breast of Anne
of Montmorency, the ancient sentiments ofdevo-.
tion and fidelity, which had attached him for so
many years to the father and grand-father of the
King. Arriving at Orleans, he turned to the
captains and said, with his ordinary dignity, that
since the King had reltored him his command, f
they might dispense witli guarding his lvlajeity
so exatSly in fill! peace.; and thai without em
ploying the force ol arms, he would man.e <s
nialter rel'peCted tin ough the whole kingdom ant
by all his ("übjedts. Ariived at the palace, where
the Queen loaded him with honors, he rendered,
his homages to the young King, and with tears
in his eyes, conjured him to fear nothing from
the present troubles, for that he and all good
Frenchmen, were ready to iacrifice their lives ioi
the support of his c own. Ihe Queen encoui ag
ed by this difcoui fe, the fir'.t proof ot the fuccels
of her contrivances, entered without delay in
to secret conferrences with the Constable, be
fore that others had time to entertain and to gain
him. She protefled that Ihe expedted every tiling
from him, both for her children and herielf; that
the royal authority and the public good were no longer
Out idle names, Jor two factions embittered againJl
each other, for their mutual dejlrußion ; that lhe
despaired of preserving to her children under
age, a crown envied and attacked by such power
ful ejiemies ; unlefshis fidelity, of which lie had
so long given such fliining proofs, should cause
him to embrace the defence of the young mo
narch, of a kingdom torn with divisions, and ol
all the royal family. These words in the mouth
of a woman, a mother, a Queen in affliction,
made so deep an impreilion on the mind of the
Constable, that he contented to the accommoda
tion ready to be concluded with the King of Na
varre. Flattered with the humiliation of the
Cuifes, and re-eftabliftied in the functions cf the
firft trust in the kingdom, he renounced all in
terests of facftion, and resolved to unite with the
Queen, for the preservation of theftate, in which
he aspired only to reafl'ume the place which he
had merited by his long services.
Concord being thus established, by the authori
ty of the Constable, they ailembled the council :
All the Princes and officers of the crown aflifted
at it ; and the Chancellor having, according to
custom, made the propositions in presence of the
King,jthey concluded unanimoufl'y that the Queen
fliould be declared regent of the kingdom, the
King of Navarre lieutenant-general in the Pro
vinces : the Constable, generalissimo of the ar
mies, the Duke of Cuife, grand-mailer of the
King's houfliold, and the Cardinal de Lorrain,fu
perintendant of the finances.
The Prince of Conds was now discharged from
Prison, and an Arret of the Parliament of Paris,
conceived in honorable terms, discharged him
from all the accusations against liim ; and the
sentence was declaredmill and irregular, as the
work of judges incompetent in the cause of the
Princes of the blood. The Vidame de Chartres,
died of chagrin in the Baftile, before the coaliti
on was finifhed. Thus ended the year 1560.
(To be continued.)
VERSES,
Said to be written and Jung by a Negro-Girl, on her lover wkv was
drowped in her fight.
POOR Or a link on Yakco dear,
Tho' he be gone forever :
For he no dead, he Hill live here * :
And he from her go never.
Like on de fjnd me mark him face,
The wave come roll him over ;
The mark he go, bbt still the place,
*Tis easy to difcovcr !
Me fee, sometime, de tree, de flovyer,
He droop iike Or a surely ;
And den, bye-bye, dere come a fhowcr
He hold him head up purely.
And so sometime me tink me die,
My heart fofickhe grieve me ;
But m a little time mecrv
Good deal, and dat relieve me.
* Herhforw.
Improvements and Additions to Mr. Bo wen's
Exhibition of Wax-Work,
HIS Excellency Benjamin Franklin, Esq. A Philtdclphian
Beauty. Peace, (an elegant figure) with her Olive Brancj.
Plenty, -with wrcathsof Flowers, b3fket of Fruit, &c.
at one quarter dollar, mac he had at Mr.
Jamis Bryson's, No. 4, Third, te/oiv Market Street-, where the
exhibition is open from 1 o o'cloci in th - Morning, until 9 every Event,i r.
N. B. MINIATURE and PORTRAIT PAINTING
done at the fame place, on rcafonable terms.
Philadelphia, Oft. 30, 1790.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,")
Otlobcr 14, 1790. J
NOTICE is hereby Riven, That Protofah will be received at
the Office of the Secretary of the Treasury, to the 30th day
of November next, inclusive, fur the supply of all Rations which
may be required for the use of the United States, from thefirft day
of January to the thirty-firftday of December 1791, both days in
clusive, Springfield, in the State ofMalTachufctts, and the Poftof
IVefl-Point, in the State of New-York,
The Rations to be fupplied,arc to consist of the following Arti
cles, viz. One pound of Bread or Flour,
One pound of Beef, or J of a pound of Pork,
Half a jill of Rum, Brandy, or Whiflty,
One quart of Salt, )
Two quarts of Vinegar, f
Two pounds of Soap, ( P r " 100 ratlons -
One pound of Candles, }
Separate Proposals may he made for each place, fpecifying the
lowed price pr. ration. No credit is required '
636
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, 1
Sept. 28, 1 790. J
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be received atthe
Oihce ot the Secretary of tbe Treasury, until the 3* ft day
ol December next iriclufive, for the building of a LIGHT IiOUSf",
nearly of the dimensions proposed by the late Commissioners of
Virginia anil Maryland, upon the lot ol land on Cape Henry, m
the County ot PrincefsAnn, and State of Virginia, lately ceded for
that purpoie to the United Statrs. gLefired, that the proposals
ny»y leave the election, whetr er the bflHnfc above the foundation
(hall be of brick or Itone, and as the of thole ma
terials vary, it is expected, th3t a will be
made in the terms oiFered.
The foundation of the Light-House is to be of (lone, and funic
to the depth of thirteen feet below the water table, over thestop of
which the pavement is to be laid. The diameter thereof is to be
twenty seven feet fix inches, with a vacancy of about nine feet iir
the centre.
The diameter ofthe base isto be twenty fix feet, at which place
the thickncfs of the walls is to be fix feet. The height from the
bottom of the water table to the top of theftone woik is to be Se
venty two feet,whcrethe is to befixtecn feet fix inches,and
the thickness of the walls The form is to be an oftagor,
having three windows in and four in the weft. If it be
built of brick, it is to oe faced glady kind, if of Hone, it
is tobe faced with hewn or ha tiled stone.
On the top ofthe stone work floor of" joists, bedded
therein, planked over and covered with copper, extending about
two feet eight inches beyond ihe wall, thereby forming an eve,
which is to be finifhed with a cornice,xhe whole having a descent
from the centre fufiicient to throw off the water.
The lanthorn is to be /upported by eight posts of wrought Iron
of three inches square and twenty feet in length, ten feet of which
are to be wrought into the flone wall on the inner part at each
corner. The diameter of it is to be ten feet, leaving a platform on
the oufide thereof of about fix feet in width. All the work, above
this is to be of iron and copper. The lanthorn is to be ten feet
high, having a semicircular roof of five feet more, with iron raft
ers covered with copper. The whole space between the posts sup
porting the lanthorn, is to b~ occupied by the sashes, which are
to be made of iron, each sash is to have twenty-eight panes of
glass, twelve by fourteen inches. One of the sashes on the fout.h
weft fide is to be hung with hinges for a door to go out upon the
platform, from the outer part of which to the roof of the lanthorn
isto be a frame of iron covered with a net work of firing b-rafe
wire, to prefcrve the glass from injuries by hail and fl'.ghts of
birds in the night.
The rafters of the lanthorn are to be well faftencd to an iron
hoop, over which is a copper funnel, through which the smoke
may pass into a large copper ventilator in the form of a man's
head, capable of containing one hundred gallons. This head is to
be so placed as to be turned by a large vane on the spire above if*
that the hole for venting the smoke mfty always be to the leeward.
Eight dormant ventilators of fix inches diameter are to be fixed
in the root of the lanthorn.
A close stove is to be provided fixed in the lanthorn, which
is to be furnrfhed with eight capable of containing fix
quarts, hung in two tiers over each other tranfvcrfcly. There arp,
to be fix flights of flairs to ascend to the lanthorn, the entrance to
which is to be by a door covered with copper. The building is
to be furnifhed with two coududtors, to feeure it from the etfefcU
of lightning.
A frame house is to be built for the keeper, twenty feet fquare>
two ftoiies high, with a frame kitchen ; the whole to be ftnifhed
with lath and plaifter.
A vault for the florage and fafe keeping of the oil is to be built
of flone at a convenient distance, twelve feet wide, and twenty in
length. It is to be arched, and covered with earth m sand, over
which a shed is to be built, and it is to be furnifhed with eight
strong cedar cisterns with covers, each capable of containing two
hundred gallons of oil. The entrance isto be secured by a strong
do*r.
Good security for the faithful performance of the contrast will
be expetted. Payments on account will be made at proper fts
ges of the work, and the balance will be paid on its completion :
<>r, if a suitable difference should be made in the terms, cafli will
be advanced for the purchafeof materials and provisions*
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, 1
Srpt. 20, 1790. J
IT is hereby made known, that the following arrangement has
been adopted towards carrying into execution the Ast, mak
ing provision for the debt of the United States, viz.
Loan-Office Certificates, and thofc issued by the Commiflion
ers for the adjustment of accounts in the several States, will be re
ceivable only at the Treasury and by the refpettive Commiflionets
of Loans within the States in which they were refpeftivcly issued.'
1 he Certificates issued bv the Register of the Treasury, by the Pay
Maftcr General and Commiflioner of Army Accounts, by the
Commiflioners for the adjustment of the Accounts of the Quarter
Mailer's, Commissary's, Hospital, Cloathing, and Marine Depart
partments, Indents of Interest, and Bills of Old Einiffion, will
be receivable indiscriminately at the Treasury and by the Com
miflioners of all the States. The situation of the Checks has dicta
ted this arrangement for the greater security of the public ag.unfl
impositions by forged or counterfeit paper, and which theslimku
have been adopted from the fame confidcration for the execution
of the business are such, that it will give facility and dispatch, if
applications from the Holders of Certificates of the Register of
the Treasury and of tVie Paymaster General, and Com miflioner of
Army Accounts, and of the Commiflioners of the five Depart
ments above mentioned, are made in the firft instance at the Trea
sury ; and if applications from the Holders of' Loan Oflice Certi
ficates, and Certificates issued by the Commiflioners for the adjull
ment Accounts in the refpefrive States, are made in like man
ner to the Commiflioners of Loans within the States in which they
were issued. Transfers can afterwards be made to any Office tfeat
the Proprietors of theCe Certificates mav desire.
INTELLIGENCE-OFFICE,
No. 208, in Market, above 6ih Street, South fide,
WI L L be negociated all kinds of PAPER
MONEY and
Public Securities,
BUSINESS tranfatfted in public offices in the
city, and such Paper-Monev and Certificates furnifhed, as will
make payment at the Land Office equal to Gold and Silver.
MONEY borrowed or loaned, and BILLS,
BONDS, and NOTES of HAND discounted.
HOUSES, farms, Lands, and Lots, bought
and fold, let or leafed, and Honfes, Rooms, Boarding and Lodg
ing procured for Strangers, or others.
BOOK-KEEPERS, Clerks, School-Masters,
alters, N'urfcs, ScatnftrefTes, Chamber and other Maids, and
to eot other profefllons, who conic well recommended, may
near o» employ ; and Employers be supplied, by applying to
FRANCIS WHITE.
Dealer in Papcr Money, and Public Securities.
The prite oj thi< paper is 3 dolls, pr. ar.r.. and 'd.Jnigle numh:,
At the