©aztM
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY 7OliN FENNO, No. 69, MARKET.STREET, BETWEEN SECOXD AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 58, of Vol. ll.] Wedne SDAY, I 7, 1790.
The Tablet. No. 149.
[General fubjeft of the two lalt numbers continued, and further
iliuftrated.]
" Whether lu:.;irx fl.ould be denominated it public
good or evil, depends very much c.u the jituatisi: oj the
people among -whom it prevails
MANY persons, who have the profperityof
their country seriously at heart, seem to
be agitated with a strong degree ofanxiety,at the
approach of that luxurj which flows from a
flourifhing commerce. The men who cherish
this patriotic concern fuffer their imaginations
to pry into future events, and to realize it, with
horror, as a certainty, that when wealth and lux
ury have arrived at an high pitch, the liberties
of their countVy will be overwhelmed and 101 l
forever. If we enquire of one of these defpond
jtig patriots, why he anticipates so melancholy a
cataltrophe, he will gravely tell us that the fpi
jit and even the forms of the anYient republics
fell afacrifice to the eifecfts of overgrown luxury.
When riches become enormous, he will ask, are
not the principles of the people vitiated, and
their fortitude deftroved ; and how easily will
they yield up the precious blelfings of freedom
to the magic delusions of pleasure ? Why then,
he will reply, fliould not opulence and luxury
produce the fame effects in our age and country ;
and why should not our liberties meet a like dis
aster with those of antiquity ? These questions
and many others of similar import croud tlieni
felves upon the inquisitive and anxious patriot,
while his contemplations are turned into the
channel of political speculation. The point up
on which he will most incessantly harp, is that an
tient liberty was extinguilhed by licentious man
ners. This will be his favorite theme ; and this
will sharpen the edge of all his declamation. It
is of no small importance therefore that every
man, who is conversant in public affairs, fliould
pofTefs a fixed, a determinate opinion on these
fubje<fts ; whether antitht Itberty did fall a facrifice
to wealth and luxury ; ar.d ij it did, whether modern
liberty is in danger of a fiviilar fate.
The real source of mistake and delufionin this
matter lies in the difference of charaiiler andcir
cumftanceS, between the present and antient
times. Cases are compared which, in many es
sential refpeifts, are not parallel. And by fall
ing into an error of this (lamp, the whole fubje<ft
takes an improper complexion. A small degreq
of investigation will convince us, that the licen
tious manners of Rome, for example, were so very
different from what now prevail, chat their vices
and misfortunes afford no just criterion, by which
to estimate our own. To illultrate the truth of
this position nothing further is requisite, thaji a
comparative view of the characters, which may
refpeiflively be ascribed to us, and them. Before
I run off these sketches, however, I will offer a few
reflections to the reader, that I inay thus eluci
date the propriety, and explain the purpol'e, of
the examples which may be introduced.
It deserves to be noticed, that it is not the quan
tity of wealth a nation poffefles, so much as their
modes of acquiring it, that lead to the extremes
of pernicious luxury. A fierce, martial people
who make sodden acquisitions of riches, by plun
ders, have no suitable ideas of their use or value.
They a<ft confidently with themselves in squan
dering their money in folly and extravagance ;
and in such a manner aS will moll effectually de
stroy every appearance of virtue and decorum.
From a people thus circumstanced, nothing is to
be expedted, but that their morals and privileges
■will be swept away, beyond the power of reco
very. But how very different a pidture do we be
hold, when we turn our eyes upon the condu<ft
of a nation, which has accumulated wealth by the
flow and regular lteps of commerce and honest
industry ! Such a community will unavoidably
form habits of order and economy, which make
them averse to such a riotous fort of profligacy,
as a plundering army delights in ; and which de
serves to be called by a far worse name than lux
ury. That nation which depends on the industry
and ingenuity of its inhabitants, for its wealth
and importance, adts upon a system that will re
gulate and take care of itfelf. It contains inher
ently those principles which will give it as much
fafety and duration, as can attend the institutions
of man. For it fhonld be remarked, that men
habituated to an induflriousoccupation, learn al
so to be frugal ; and they will of course shun
cr
thatexcefs oflicentioufnefs, which chara<flerifed
the downfall of the amient republics. The weal
thy part of a community, grown rich by arts and
industry, will ailunie foine splendor in their ex
pellees, but it willftill be managed with purity of
taste, and decency of manners. It will be fub
jecfted to such restraints as arc not incompatible
with the of a free and virtuous com
munity. Perhaps tlie arts of elegance and utili
ty, rifingup, as the fruits of industry and enter
prize among apeople, render the (late of society
not only more eligible, but encreafe the proba
bility of preserving the most rational fort of ci
vil liberty. A populous community cannot em
ploy its hands, so fafely, or so beneficially in any
other way, as by diveriifying their labors, in a
griculture, commerce, arts and manufa(ftures.
Hut fiich a distribution of industry will create many
private fortunes, and probably some degree of
public prosperity. This is the stage of affairs,
when the vigilant patriot fees danger approach
ing. Wc will in the next number endeavor to
shew him that his fears and suspicions aflume too
high a tone , and that the character of the peo
ple under the antient republics exposed them to
evils, which we cannot butefcape.
IT is frequent for people to fay, the jatts slated
are true. This is no more than to fay, thefafls
are fails'. Can facts be othervyife than true P The
cxpreflion fliould be tlius varied, the things ltated
are fafls : Or what is told is faß,
The Use of the word interefl for eflate or proper
ty is perhaps peculiar to New-England. We fay
a man of interefl, for a man of estate or property.
I do not find this meaning annexed to the word
in good English writers. In Great Britain a man
of interefl is a man of influence ox respeCtability ; as
one has a great interefl at court. We fay also
with propriety, it is for a viarfs interefl ■, that is,
something is abenefit or advantage to him, either
ill point of property or reputation, and we fay
one man is iriterefled in another's concerns. But
the use of the word for the estate or property it
felf is local and not well established.
It is common to hear tHe phrase bad economy,
instead of want of economy or bad management; and
one enjoy i a bad slate of health. But it would be
difficult to fay how economy can be bad, or how a
person can enjoy indisposition. Economy when
carried to excess takes the name of parsimony or
avarice.
It has been disputed whether we should ufetlie
word contemporary or cotemporary : But a firigle
experiment as to the ease of pronunciation, will
decide for cotemporary in all cases.
Many people miflake in nfingingenious for inge
nuous. It would be well therefore to remark
that ingenious fignifies Jkilfu! in inventing or imita
ting, as an ingenious artifl : But ingenuous means
frank, fncere, open hearted.
Our well meaning and very civil people who
have little education, ufethe third person instead
of the in addrelfing those whom they re
spect: How does the Colonel do ? Howis uncle ?
Does the squire know any thing of the matter ?
This is a very awkward mode of speaking to a
man. How do you do, fir. How do you do, col.
This mode of address should be used to all ranks
of men ; it is equally refpe&ful and more polite.
The use of Miss for Mijlrefs in this country is a
gross impropriety, and occasions an inconveni
ence inconverfation. The word miflrefs [or ma
dam to an old lady] should always be applied to
a married iady, and miss to one who has[never been
married. The application of Miss to a married
woman is very inconvenient, for scarcely a day
pafles without my hearing Miss so used, that I do
not know whether it is meant for the mother or
the daughter. Amer. Mercury.
From WEBSTER'S DISSERTATIONS en the ENGLISH LAN-
Of MODERN CORRUPTIONS in the ENGLISH
PRONUNCIATION.
(CONTINUED.)
I AM sensible that some writers of novels and plays have ridi
culed the common pronunciation of creaiur and nalur, by in
trsduringthefe and similar words into low chara&ers, fptlling
them crcattTy natcr : And the supporters of the court pronunci
ation allcdge, that in the vulgar pra£lice of speaking, the letter e
is founded and not u ; So extremely ignorant are they of the na
ture of founds and the true powers of/the Enghfh letters. The
fd£t is, wearefo far from pronouncing e in the common pr>-
nunciation of natur, creatur, See. that e is always founded like
short «, in the unaccented syllables of over, Jobcr, banter, and
(Tl-e f.ibjett to be ctntinued.)
REMARKS ON THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE
641
GUAGE,
[Whole No. 162-]
other similar words. Nay, most of the vowels, in such syllables,
found like ior u short.* Liar, elder, fa&or afe pronounced !iur y
e/dur, faftur, and this is the true found of ain creator, nature,
rapture, legijlature, 'See.
I would just observe further, that this pretended dipthong in
was formerly ex pre flea by ew and eu, or perhaps by eo, and wa>
considered as different from the found of u. In modern times,
we have, in many woid<, blended the found of u with that of ew t
or rather use them promifcuouflv. It is indifferent, as to the pro
nunciation, whether we write fuel or jewel. And yet in this
word, as also in new, brew, See. we do not hear the found of
cxccpt among the Virginians, who afFefk to pronounce it diftinft
ly, ne-ew, This afFetlation is not of modern date,
fqr Wallis mentions it in his time and reprobates it, " Eu, ew,
eau, fonariter per e clarum et w ; ut in neuter, beauty. Qui
dem tamen accutius efferunt, acfi fcriberentur niew ter,fiew,bieut).
At prior pronunciatro reftior eft."——Gram. Ling. Aug.
Here this author allows these combinations to have the found
of yu or iu ; but disapproves of that refinement which someaasset& t
in giving the e or i short itsdiftinft found.
The true found o! the Eng'ilh u, is neither czv, with the dif
tin£l found of c and co ; nor is it oo ; but it is that found which
every unlettered person utters in pronouncingfolitudc, rude, threw,
and which cannot easily be mistaken. So difficult is it to avoid
the true found of u, that I have never found a nun, even among
the ardent admirers of the stage pronunciation, who does not re
tain the vulgar found, in more than halt the words of this class
which he ules. There is such a propenfny in men to be regular
in the conftru&ton and use of language, that they are often obli
ged, by the customs of the age, to fh uggle against their inclination,
in order to be wrong, and ilill find i: impofiibie to be uniform in
their errors.
The other reason given to vindicate the polite pronunciation, \t
enphony. But 1 must fay, with Kenrick,f I cannot discover the
euphony ; on the contrary, the pronunciation is to me both dis
agreeable and difficult. It is certainly more difficult to pro
nounce two consonants than one. Ch, or, which is the fame
thing, tjhy is a more difficult found than t ; and dzh, or more
difficult than d. Any accurate ear may difeoVer the difference in
a Tingle word, as in natur, vachur. But when two or three words
meet, in which we have either of these compound founds, the
difficulty becomes very obvious ; as the vachural feackurs of indivi
juals. The difficulty is increased, when two of these churs and
jurs occur in the fame word. Who can pronounce these words,
" at this jun&fliur it was cowjeEljhurcd"—or u the ast parted in a
tjhumultjhuous legijlatjhur," without a pause, or an extreme exer
tion of the lungs ? If this is euphony to an Englifti ear, I know
not what founds in language can be difagrceable. To me it is
barbarously havfli and unharmonious.
But luppofing the pronunciation to be relished by ears accus
tomed to it (forcuflom will familiarize anything) will the plea
fuie which individuals experience, balance the ill iffc&s of crea
ting a multitude of irregularities ? Is not the number of anomalies
in our language already fufficient, without an arbitrary addition
of many hundreds ? Is not the difference between our written
and spoken language already fufficiently wide, without changing
the founds of a number of consonants ?
1f we attend to the irregularities which have been long eflablifil
ed in our language, we shall find mod of them in the Saxon
branch. The Roman tongue was almost peife£tly regular, and
perhaps its orthography and pronunciation were perfectly corres
pondent. But it is the peculiar misfortune of the fafhionable
pra&ice of pronouncing d, t, andf before u, that it deftroysthe
analogy and regularity of the Roman branch of our language ; for
those consonants are not changed in many words of Saxon origi
nal. Before this affe&ation prevailed, we could boast of a regu
lar otthography in a large branch of our language ; but now the
only class of words, which had preserved a regular conftru&ion,
arc attacked, and the correspondence between the spelling and
pronunciation, destroyed, by those who ought to have been the
firft to oppose the innovation.
Should this praflice be extended to all words, where d. t and f
precede u, as it must before it can be confident or dcfenfible, it
would introduce mr»rc anomalies into our tongue, than were be
fore established, both in the orthography and conftruttion. What
a perverted taste, and what a lingular ambition must those men
poffels, who, in the day light of civilization and science, and in
the fliort period of an age, can go farther in demolishing the ana
logics of an elegant language, than their unlettered ancestors pro
ceeded in centuries, amidst the accidents of a savage life, and the
frocks of numerous invasions ! (To be continued )
* AJh obfervcs, that u in unaccented, Jhort and infignifUantfollabhs,
the founds of the Jive vowels are nearly coincident. It mujlbe a nice car
that can dijiinguijh the difference of found in the concluding fy liable of
the following words, altar, alter, manor, murmur, satyr." Gram.
Dijf. presto Die. p. 1.
+ For my part I cannot dijcover the euphony ; and tho the contrary
•mode be reprobated, as vulgar, by certain mighty fine Jpeakers, / think
it more conformable to the generalfcheme ofEnglifh pronunciation ; for tho
in ordei to make the word but two syllables, ti and te may be required to
be converted into ch, Q* the i and e into y, when the preceding syllable
is marked with the accute accent as in question, minion, courteous,
and the like ; there seems to be little feajfor,, when the grave accent pre
cedes the t, as in nature, creature, for converting the lintoch ; and
not much more for joining the t to the ftrflfyllable and introducing the y
before theJ'econd, as nat-yure. Why the t when followed by neither i
nor e, is to take the form of ch, I cannot conceive : It is, in my opin
ion, a species of affetlation that should be discountenanced. Kenrick
Rhet. Gram, page 32. Die.
£ Well might Mr. Sheridan ajfert, that " Such indeed is the slate of
our written language, that the darkefl hieroglyphics, or mofl difficult
cyphers which the art of man has hitherto invented, were not better cal
culated to conceal the Jentiments tff those who vfed them y from all who
had not the key, than the slate of our spelling is to conceal the true
pronunciation of our words, from all, except a few well educated
natives. Rhet. Gram. p. 22. Die. But if these well educated natives
would pronounce words as they ought, one half the language at leifl
would be regular. The Latin derivatives are moflly regular to the
educated and uneducated of Amcrica ; and it is to be hoped that the mod
em hieroglyphical ohfeurity will forever be confined to a few well edu
cated natives in Great-Britain.
THE HARVEST
THROUGHOUT the United States, the latter as well as the
former, has rewarded the toil of the bufbarrdman with a rich a
bundancc, both for man and beast. Pomona has not been less
profufeof her favors than Ceres of her's ; and the great plenty
of that federal beverage, Cyder, will, we hope, by rendering the use
of that antifcderal liquid, Rum, less excufeable, make it less conj
mon. ' [Columbian CtntinciJ
IXX TRACT FROM A TO EM WRITTEN IN BALTIMORE.
HOW fwect is raufic lo the (ocial mind,
That narrow, fordid notions cannot blind I
What pleaffng agitations warm ihc foul
That yields delighted to its kind control I
It ev'rynobleft fentinjent infpircs ;
And fans the purest fyinpathetic fires ;
Arrefls the ruthless foi/1 in inad carcer,
And makes th' aflai&n shed cowpaflion's tear :
More wond'rous, true, than melting rocks away,
It sos tens flinty hearts of human clay 1
more melodious voice tor love supplies ;
And breathes his willies in the fofteik sighs.
Music can give a tongue to silent time ;
Can swell his meafurM circles forth fublimc ;
When varied found? in near fucceflion flows,
His progTefs to the mind apparent grows.
While equidiftaut, thiongh another strain«
The former notes return, and turn again ;
Wide and more wide, some lcaiing tones
In corresponding periods without end;
Years following years, and day succeeding day,
Seem, on a narrow scale, to fleet away.
But time, though silent, ft.il! from motion camc
To find existence, being, or a name,
Coeval in their course; and so to run, N
Till fathomlefs duration, all is done.
Time's airy circles leave no trace behind,
Till change apparent prints them on the mind :
Yet, from the (weet viciilirudes of found,
And tuneful cadcncea revolving round ;
The current variations 'come confefs'd,
And time's progreflion is to thought exprefs'd.
FROM THE if ESTER X STAR,
A Newspapir, publiflied at Stockbjidge y (Massachusetts) by Mr.
THE BERKSHIRE SENTIMENTALIST.
THE mutual prejudices, which have subsisted between- nations,
societies and individuals, iurnifh matter for much lpecula
fion to a fcntimental obfeivcr. Such prejudices have prevailed in
different degrees and from a variety of causes ; but ahiftorical sur
vey of mankind, from the earliest ages down to the prelent time {
affords lufficient rcaton to believe, that their molt frequent cause
is a rivallhip for some pre-eminence. Other circuinftanccs may
add fuel to the fire, or fan it into a hotter flame : but a fpririt of
inordinate emulation commonly kindles the firft fpaik.
The jews and Samaritans had no intercourse, because they ref
pe t £bvely claimed the honour of a place, where they believed the
God of Heaven ought to beexclufively worfliippcd. The Athe
nians and Spartans were competitors for fupcrior influence among
the States of Greece. Hence frequent bickerings ensued. FJence
a permanent hatred between the two cities grew to such rancour,
that it at length broke out in the deftiu&ive Peloponnefian war ;
and, : n its progress, alternately deluged both Athens and Sparta
»n blood, the fame truth is exemplified in the hi (lory of the
Commonwealths of Rome and Carthage. Nothing but a national
ambition to gain the ascendency and rule the world gave birth to
the three Punic wars. That paflion, could never be extinguished,
but by the final fubjt&ion of one of the contending nations. The
struggle was maintairied with the utraoft exertions on both fides,
till Carthage funk beneath the weight of the roman arms, and was
so completely annihilated, that her place has hardly been disco
vered by travellers.
Modern Europe likewise has verified this observation in innu
merable instances. The King of Pruflia and the Arch Duke of
Aufliia are the most confidtrable powers in the Germanic Body.
They have for many years been the only potent candidates for an
Imperial eleflion. This accounts for that cordial hatred between
thsm, which by the wars it has occafioncd, has sacked their most
populous cities, ravaged their fineft provinces, and repeatedly fer
lilifed the plains of Silesia with Pruflian and Austrian blood. A
competition for the gJory of holding the balance of power in Eu
rope h>s for ages embittered the English and French towards
cach other. As soon as their children learn to lisp, they are
taught to call their neighbors, on the other fide of the channel,
their enemies. Thus they grow up in the habitual belief that
their enmity is natural. The coufequence is baneful to their hap
pineis. For, without dispute, this deadly antipathy has been the
fccret motive of most, if not all, of theirj many bloody wars. I
grant that their intereftshave fometimcs clashed, and consequently
been productive of animosities. But, where national intcreft
has slain its thoulands, national pride hasflain its tens of thonfands.
If we leave ancient times and foreign nations, and come home
to our age and country, we (hall find the fame principle operating
in the United States, The great division into Northern and South
ern Fa&ions in our general government, is perhaps occasioned less
by any real difference in their interests, or any incompatibility of
claims, than by a fecrc,t ilrugglq soy pre-eminence.
Perhaps thii matter may be more clearly understood, if we at
tend to smaller portions of community, where the whole may be
more easily viewed at once. Turn then to particular states. Ex
amine single towns ; and consider what are the sources of their
diflentioos. They who live in the extremes often envy their more
fortunate townsmen, whefe situation is nearer the centre. The
inhabitants of ■ hill, perhaps and those of a neighboring plain arc
formed inta diftintt parties and regularly trained opto opposition.
The members of one school didrift or one religious foeiety are
hostile to those of another. Such are the diftin&ions, which ex
cite a rivalfhip in almost every town, and year after year diftuib
the harmony of the inhabitants. An interference of rights or
conveniences undoubtedly aggravates these prejudices, which arc
fiift generated by pride and emulation.
A similar opposition, for the fame reasons, divides a State, be
tween the sea coast and country ; or as they are denominated,
the commercial and agricultural interests. Indeed this oppofi
ii/>n between those who live on the sea-coast, and those who are
scattered over the interior parts, is «otconfined to the limits of
any one S'ate in particular. It runs through the Union, from
Maine tOsGc©rgia ; though it is most visible in the Southern States;
because there the coast is chiefly inhabited by the posterity of the
firft Englilh adventurers ; whereas the back countries are princi
pally peopled by recent emigrations from the north. This last
circumstance confirms my afleuioii, that it i» pride rather than in
terest, which forms thcdivifion. We may also fee the fame ope
ration in parts of the Union, v. here more particular and adventi
tious circumstances ponfpire to produce a temporary efFe£l. The
Wtftern counties of Mattachufctts were originally planted by per
haps nearly an equal number of settlers from the old counties of
the Province, and from Conne&icut. And I appeal to those,
whose memories can Teach back to the distance of thirty or forty
yean, to fav if those twoclafles of settlers were not in many towns
cnliftea under the banners of two rival parties. It is true, this
cause of contention is wearing away, and these parties begin to be
swallowed up in other diftin&ions. Yet such a fpi'rit itill con
tinues to operate with all it* force, between the primitive Dutch
and the New-England emigrants in the Nohhcrn and Wcftern
•otintics of New-York.
Xo whatfource, but a kind of rivalfliip, can we trace the preju
dices which every obfervinj; traveller knows are entertained by
Jic «irucoi of one state agjinft their ueighbors la another ? A
MUSIC,
L. Andrews,
No. 1.
differertee in cjuoation, customs and of
granted, may create a diverf.ty of op.n.om, and <evate on« o
fbc human race, in the feale of importance, above t« reff. 1 M
it is the boast of NeW-England, that her )ei J . r
lightened, as well as more virtuous, than the commo y y
other ftatt or nation. Probably itna opinion Here then
For the fame remark is mad* by llrangers
is a reason, tho not a jultitiable one, for that P re j ' ,
the people of these (lite, view the fob, eft. ot . every o.her , par o.
the world. Yet why do the c.tizen.of one Sew-Engand llate 1°
partially prefer their own manners, laws, charaaer, aiP
and fa blindly condemn tnofe ot another a,.c, p
where they differ ; while an ...different judge perhaps wouMelti
mate them, tho not all alike, yet nearly equal ,0 point of m««
Why, I ask, but from a fpirrt of r.vallhip? IV hat, but tuch a
spirit, could produce io much bitterness, as has often prevailed a
mong'different denominations o! ch, .ilians? From the fame e.ufe
the fcvcral profeflions are paflial to themfelvcs, and P re
againfl each other. Every man of observation mull acknowledge
there is a general proleffional emulation; at the lame fme the
individualsof aay one profeffion, being more immed.ate compe
titors for the fame objcfcts,a ? e coi»fequemly aSuaud in a much
higher degree, by an individual rivallhip. _
Rival candidates for the fame office, or rival lover# of the fame
fair one, mav thake hands when they meet, and protels a mutual
esteem; but felfilh. nature impels them, tho agalnft their realun,
and perhaps even contrary to their wtllres, .to indulge a facret pre
judice at heart. Too often their feelings are so impatient ot con
trol, as to spur them on to open refentmer.t,- if not to perlonal
abuse. ,
Examples of rivallhip are endless. Those, which are here ad •
duced, are, I trust, fufficient both to illustrate and prove the sen
timents asserted iu this essay. It is easy to discern how r.valfhip
thus prejudices the human mind ; since felf is the idol, before
which we all, more or less, fall down and worship, and we natur
ally aflociate the idea of felt with that of our property, families,
friends, profeffion, society or nation. To point out the means, by
which the mifchitvous effe£l« ot prejudice may be prevented,
would be a more arduous, but a more ufeful undertaking.
FROM THE IVILkILX'GIUN GAZETTE,
Publilhed at Wilmington, by Frederick Craig and Co,
THOUGHTS on the fubjeA of Ships foundering
at Sea, with directions how to prevent that fa
tal disaster in many cases.
IN reading Dr Franklins's letter* I found he had treated very
i ngenioully on this fubjeft, but I think he did not give asfull
directions as perhaps he would have done, had he been pait cu'ar
iy treating of that fubjeft alone ; and as many never fee said letters
who may perhaps happen on a newfpapcr that (may contain this,
therefore I have thought it not amiss to add some thoughts of my
own to those of Franklin, and offer them to the public. Let us
fiilt consider the principle on which the ship floats on the waier,
which is simply this, that air is lighter than water; thus il you fill
any velTel such as a calk full of air and make it tight, it will float
on the top of the watei, and carry with it a weight exaflly equal
to the difference of the weight of air in the calk, and the fame calk
full of water, deduiling for the weight of the calk itfelf. Thus a
a ship will carry jufl as much weight as the difference between
the weight of the air contained in f«iid (hip below the furface of
the water, and the weight of so much water, deducing the weight
of the ship and ballast. A captain underflanding well this princi
ple, and perceiving his (hip at sea to spring a leak, in a desperate
manner so as to gain fall oh his pumps, fliould, in the hrft place,
flart all his calks full of any liquid, he can get at in the lower
tiers, and fad as they empty, or the water encrcafes so that they
will empty no more, pligh them tight again, and throw overboard
only such things as willot thcmfclvca fink, carefully retaining eve
ry thing that will float on the water, (or they may 3t lafl save the
ship. If the cafe flill fectns desperate, empty every ca(k that can
be made light, and put them in the hold and contrive to force them
under water, and keep them there by props from the deck, this
will flill leflen the prefTurc, and the water will come in flower as
it rises higher in tire hold, and covers more of liie empty calks.
Every wooden thing that can any' way be spared, mull be put in
the hold and forced under water by props not bv weight, for this
would destroy the effect, and even in eafeof great extremity, cut
down the mads asdeutthem small, with everything above, and
force them in the hold, cabin and scuttles, or any where so that
they can be kept under water. The fait provisions, water, &c.
that will be neceffaryto be kept for use, should be firfl of all
brought upon deck, and lad of all be put into the hold or any
where else, so that tky will be immersed in the water and can be
got at for use, lam of the opinion that few Ihips that put to fca
would fink, after every thing being done" as above direfled, al
though half her bottom was beat out. Would it not be well done
if some able hand were to collect all the bclk ohfervations oti this
fubjeft ; and directions how to proceed in desperate cases, and
those directions printed and polled up in fcvcral places in every
ship that puts to ica, that every man on board may know how to
proceed ; this would prevent that consternation and confufion
which takes place m thtfe cases for want of knowledge. Let not
the manner aefpair in such cases, at feeing the water gain very faff
on hispumpv; but colder as the vessel fills the preflure lefrenr,
and the water comcs in flower, and the pumps will discharge it
"luch filler as it will not be so far to boifl as at This
■ s certainly a-lubjeft worthy the attention of the wife and great,
if we consider how much property and many lives are 101 l for
want of such knowledge. If these hints should be the means of
ttirnng a more *ble hand to take up the rubied, and to tile savin*
ot any, it will reward the writer. °
New-Callle county, OQober 16.
FOREIGN ABSTRACT.
PORTSMOUTH, (N. II.) Oftobcr 33.
"pUropean accounts; received by the Charlotte, (in addition to
what we have pui,l.(hed): lUte» That the assassin of Count
Floi ida Blanca, .was publicly .executed at Madrid, an the 18th of
Augutt. by having h.s,,ght hand cut off, and thrnhanged : The
Count made the flrongeft fol.citati<Sn» lt o the King to pardon him,
but without effefl. :--n.at private letters from Paris .iaform, that
the King would not accept of the reflation of M. Ncckar, who
went down to St. Claud on purpose to deliver up his authority.
m'r il"' aPu ° n Sunday n 'g h, .'('he S th Sept.) and pro
ofedl his Majesty, that at any rate he (hould p.efcnt to .he Nati
onal Affembl}, a plan for the liquidation of .he national debt,
without forcingon the public ».( hundred m.Hkns fieri,,, of circu
iting paper, which. the ftock-jobbiug party in the alTembly were
anxious to have iffued.-lhat M. d'Orleans, if he was ever atach
t h , as i attl y is now a warm advocate
tn rim 'b"' ° rts wllI » in ,uturf . be fretted
Mrn lttte , r ,kt command of the National
y J >r n" a ' lt mUCh *'""«> that it i, become
nearly ,mpr>flible to dift.ngu.fh on winch f.de truth a „d ,„ftice
hi' E ° nat,on ° f the Em P=' or i» fixed for the 4 th Octo
ber, M Frankfort, bein 3 .he fame day on which, in the year 1743
the Emperor Francis was crowned. (This ccremony is cxpefted
There C "'M I" P ITi P • P^ndo " r Dn y thin S°f 'be like kind
There will W dilplayed in parade 800 quintals of filvcr plate, the
golden ferviceof 36 crowns, the famous chrvflal cup which coast
near 30,000 flonns, with its foot, formed of a precfou, .«te and
the large diamond, which,fcrvej as a button to the hat, wtii'hin,
60 carats, which was prefervedm thc lrcifury of Florence. They
arc also coining la the mint otV.enna, «•,«» ducwia gomme
642
toCM.cm of tbt r«r*«*i:or.. •<<*» large gold xielal., 6000 fma«
ones rt>oo large lilver medals. 12, 0000 l a middling {vie, and, 5000
fmahones, all to be diftri'puted at Frankfort.) That the Emprels
of Rufiia, exdfperatcd agaiuft the F.Hgliih, has concladcd .1 hally
alliance with Sweden ; m n 'd<r r as it is taid, to hurt tjie former
byaidin.' the Spaniaidk—That from' this pacification with her
most troublesome enemya new league is talked ol to arils between
Ruflia, and Spain and France, as a counterbalance to the tripartita
allian-c between England, Prussia and Holland.—That the King
of Sweden is offended that he was not more powerfully fupportcd
be' the Briti IVI Court in his'critical fnoation at Wyburgh ; and it is
the opinion of politicians, that the honest and brave Swede will
unite with the Northern Heroine in defenfive alterations, &c.—
BOSTON, No*. ■}.
jfttftria and Turkey have fettled a peace—Prttfiu
was the mediator. the head of 100,000
men.] The Emperor gives up to the Grand Seig
nior Oczakow, and that grave of almost million;,,
Belgrade, Bcc.—TheKiug of Prussia, receives from
the Turks, ten millions of dollars for his inter
ference ; but he is to assist Aujlria in bringing
back to their allegiance to the Emperor, the re
volted province of Brabant —on condition that
its real grievances are redrefled.
DOMESTIC ABSTRACT.
It was objected to the Federal Conftitution,dur
ing its rotation was pro
vided in it. The people have, in the last month,
lhewn the objection to be ill founded ; For such
rotations as they have thought proper to make,
have been made in the constitutional manner.
In Pennsylvania, a new Constitution has been ef
tabliflied—and the government uuder it organ
ized. This constitution is said to be the " per
fe&ion of excellence." Prefideric Mifflin is
elected Governor, by an iinttienfe majority.
The IVeftern Pofls, those barriers of the United
States, areftill retained by the British ; and, we
are told, have lately been ftrengtliencd by addi
tional fortifications and troops. That at Niagara,
in particular. The half-pay officers therein have
been put on the full pay eftablifhmment; and there
appears not the final left; profpe&, that Great-Bri
tain will ever peaceably relinquilh those (lrong
holds which nature, ajid treaties made "in tie
name of the most holy and undivided Trinity havjs
given to the United States.
Our fertile country wanted nothing to complete
its liappinefs but an energetic, general govern
ment—that government, praised be heaven, is now
eftabliflied : And the people feeling its beneficial
effects, have exhibited their warm and unequivo
cal attachment thereto, in their late election of
decidedly independent federal men. May their
attachment still continue to strengthen, and in
the language of that celebrated historian, Doctor
Ramsay " May the Almighty Ruler of the Uni
verse, who hat raised Us to independence, and given
us a place among the nations of the earth, make the
American revolution an era in the htflory of the world
remarkable for the progrejji'jc increase oj human hap
pinef.Y."
WORCESTER, November 4
On SatUfrday evening last, the noted Burroughs,
who has been employed by the people of Charl
ton, as a fcboolmafter, nearly all the time lince
he was released from the castle, was committed
to the goal in this town, for attempting a rape
on several of his fcholars.—ls it not time for pa
rents, and others, who have so important a charge
committed to them sfs the education qf children,
to be more careful who they employ as teacheis?
—Can it any longer be thought a matter of tri
fling concern, that the education of those who
are soon to take the lead, both in church and
Hate, and qii whom the future; welfare of our
country eflentially depends, should be entrust
ed to persons of openly abandoned characters ?
NEW-YORK, November 12
Between the ioth instant, and the ioth of De
cember an exchange of the Beacons, boats &c. lla
tioned on the flioals in the bay of Delaware, is to
take place. The order is to be as follows : The lit
exchanged will be the beacon of the cross ledge,
in place of which will be laid a buoy with a liaff
and small black Hag. The next will be the bea
con of the Brandy wine, in place of which will be
laid a buoy and small white flag. The beacon rtf
the brown, being the firft leading mark of the
bay, will remain till the tenth of December, un
less a severe season should c®mpel a speedier re
moval—when removed a plain buoy will be an
chored in its place. The large buoys on the mid
dle, and fourteen feet bank are already exchang
ed and fnialler ones put in their stead. That on
the middle is furnifhed with a ftaff" andcrofs.
AN EXTRACT.
. The inventions of language, of arms, of wri
t'ng, _ printing, and engraving, have been the
principal means of extending the influence of
man, and ot his acquiring the dominion of the
earth. By thefeadts men transmit the improve
ments, the in ventions, and acquisitions ot one age
to another. By these arts the dispositions of
men are fofrened, their manners become more
and more civilized, humanity is gradually ex
tended and refined, and the grofler animosities
yield to external politencfj and decorum, atlcaltrf the feelings themfclves be not blunted. How
Far this progress of science, and the peaceful arts
of life, by the accumulation of ages, may pro
ceed, it is impoflible to determine. But the time
it is to be hoped, is not very remote, when the
fiercer contentions ef nations will cease, when
felfifhnefs and venality, which at present seem
to be inseparable from commercial dates, will
give way to generolity of temper, and upright
uefs of conduct.
ALBANY, Nov. 4,
The legislature of Vermont have resolved to
pay totheitateof New-York,thirt* thousand
dollars, agreeable totrhe ift proposition con
tained in the declaration of the cotniuiflioners of
this state, appointed to dectfre thecoufeat of the
legislature thereof.
The legislature havfc also refblved, that a con
vention be called for taking into consideration
the conftiturion of the United States—the mem
bers to be elected in DebemWr,and the convention
to meet the firft week in January. The legisla
ture have atfjourned, to uieet again on the firft
Thursday in January ; for the purpose (we sup
pose) of chooling senators, and affixing the time
and manner of electing representatives to Con
■grefs.
SALEM, Nov. 2
Tickets in the Marblehead Lotiery
lately met with a rapid sale: Three Thousand
•were fold in Boston in the course of lalt week—
This does not indicate a scarcity of calh.
tiEORGE-T OWN, Nov. 10
We hear that'tlie President of the United States,
lias ordered three plats on different parts of the
Fato-wmack, to be laid out—Nothing certain ref
pe<fting the fixed feat of the Federal Government
has as vet transpired.
/ Antedate oj. General PUTNAM.
( AFTER one of the skirmishes, in which
[he Americans had been fuccefsful, an English
jofticer was lefc moll dangerously wounded on the
Tield of adtion ; arid wlien the vi&orious party
came up, they were embarralled to know how
they lhou4d remove him, in fiich a mangled
Itate, to some town where he might have the al"
fiftance he required
Putnam, who had been bred a carpenter, iin
nediately threw off his regimentals, and having
a hatchet accidentally at hand, cut down several
saplings, which he grooved together, having no
way ot fattening them, and thus made a kind of
cradle, in which the wounded officer was con
veyed with the greatest pofliblc eal'e, to a neigh
bouring town, where he recovered under the
care of a surgeon.
When Putnam heard of his recovery, and that
it was owing to his humane care, without which
he must have bled to death in the removal, he
,said, Tien 1 glory more in having been bred a Car
penter,than 1 Jhould do if 1 had been born a Prince !
Philadelphia, Nov. 17.
We are informed that the following R ESOLUTION has lately fajfed
jn the Aflcmbly of the State of Virginia, by a majority oj feventy-cight,
U> fifty-one—viz.— Resolved, That it is the opinion of this
committor, that so much of the ast of Congrrfs entitled " An ast
making provision for the debt of the United States," as aflumes
the payment of the State debts, is repugnant to the constitution of
the United States, as it goes to the excrcile of a power not cx
pre'fsly granted to the general government.
The State of Vermont has passed an Ast for calling a Conven
tion, to deliberate upon, and agree to, the Conftitntion of the
United States. The members are to be chosen the fiift Tuesday
«f Drcembtr ; and the Convention is to meet on the firil Thursday
of January next, at Bennington.
Monday last the Honorable Henry Knox, Esq. Secretary at
War, and his Lady, arrived in town from New-York.
The Hon. John Buown, Esq. is re-elected member of the
House of Ijleprefentatives of the United States for the Kentucky
ditlrift, Virginia.
' According to the latest advices from England ;
all is going wrong in France :—this may be the
ease, but we have so often been amused by fictiti
ous accounts from the Englilh papers, that pru
dence will certainly suspend a full credence to
the present—but the delays in compleating the
revolution may lead us to fear, that the sentiment
of the.immortal Shakespeare has not been du
ly attended to by the National Afl'embly—viz:
There is a tide in the affairs of men.
Which taken at the flood leads on tofoitime
V Omitted, all the voyage of their life
Is boimd in (hallows, and in miseries.
On such a full fca th' AlTembly were afloat :
And had they took the current when it ferv'd,
liberties had been fccui'd forever.
The late Rcfolution of the AlTt mbly of Virginia, on the fund
ing law, is a fubjeft of speculation to every man who feels inter
ested in the tranquility of the general government, and that of the
United States. This bufincfs wears at least an enigmatical com
plexion ; for while the gentlemen who form the delegation to
Congress from that State, have their condutt in voting lor the
funding fyftein inipliedly approved of» by their constituents, in
being re-clefted, a majority of their Jlate representatives appear in
opposition to the law.
4< 9 Tis time to fhsathetbe f word and stare mankind
From whence come wars and fightings (fays the
inspired penman)— Come they not hcnce, even of
your lulls? Of all the sources of di&ord and
bloodshed in the family of mankind, without
doubt the wqft produ<ftiv« pre the pride, ambi
tion and avarice of individuals • Tlieffe are the
parents'* of'civil feuds and diflentiontf," which del'
troy the peace aud happiness of particular com
munities : The arts of unprincipled demagogues
rendergovernmentodiousand intolerable : Their
oppreifions invite the interposition of foreign na
tions, who never fail to pay themfclves by elta
bliihing a defpotifin of their own, over those they
pretend to succour. The United States have
perhaps more to fear from the pride and machi-
nations of particular 1 characters/than even the
ancient Romans had ; and it is well known, that
among ihefe, the most.horrid civil wars were fo
mented by factions popular men, who finally
overturned the constitution and liberties of tHfP*
country ; but altho vfcry powerful causes of fac
tion may exist in the United States, yet we pos
sess, it is to be hoped, one very effectual antidote
againlt the evil, which no other people ever pof
fefled, in an equal degree, and that is, the uni
versal diffusion of knowledge among our citizens.
This will enable them to discriminate characters ;
and, weighing them in theballanceof reason and
judgment, such conclusions may be drawn, as will
make the public peace, and the tranquility bf the
government, preponderate against the plausible
pretences of thole, who, acftuated by felfidi un
principled motives, would involve our affairs in
confuhon and infamy.
Of the numerous States and Empires of the
world which have preceded the United States—
(the thought is foleoin) not one, whose records
are preserved, wasfo happy asto underltand the
things on which the perpetuity of their peace and
prosperity depended : They had their rife, pro
gress, and decay : Hence it has been argued, that
this is the invariable establishment of nature with
respect to political, as it is with bodies natural.
It remains therefore for the United States to ex-
hibit anew example on the theatre of the globe :
Thereareinnumerablecircumftanoesin onr situa
tion, which render it original ; but whether the
present Conltitution has a principle of immor
tality in it—or whether that principle is yet to
be infufed, remains to be determined.
What a spring to the genius, and inventive fa
culties of the human mind has the new govern
ment proved ! The citizens of the United States
have long since averted and proved their claim
to the appellations of active, brave, and
prizing ! What quarter of the globe has been un
explored by their mariners ! What dangers l*Wfe
been un-encountered ! And what avenues to
wealth and honor have been unexplored ! It re
mained forthe influence ofa national government
to unfold their inventive powers : The number
of original maehines, and inventions, calculated
to to promote the mechanic
arts which have been recently produced are truly
altonifhing : Models of these have been deposit
ed in the Office of the Secretary of State, accounts
of which may be laid before the public in foine
future paper.
In contemplating the present situation of this
country, how pleasing—how delightful are the
ideas that rufli on the philanthropic mind ! —A
inoft happy union cements the States—and every
day adds to the brightness of the chain which
unites tliem : While the true interests of the in-
dividual States are continually unfolding, their
mutual dependence is felt and recognized : Local
prejudices are subsiding, and in a fliort time, if
events are left to their natural operation, one
spirit will pervade and animate the whole, nor
leave a vestige of felfilh state-policy behind, that
shall be incompatible with the general good. The
remembrance of the errors of former years is
nearly loft in that honest and magnanimous po
licy which has distinguished the councils of the
general government : Foreign nations impute
diofe errors to their jult cause—the want of a
constitution ; and at the present moment, bestow
a full tribute of applause on the wisdom which
devised, and the patriotism which adopted the
present energetic, free system of government.—
This is evinced by their returning confidence in
our public faith : They deposit their property
in our funds, and with promptitude fubferibe to
our loans. At the present moment iperhaps no
government-011 earth could avail itfelf of the
wealth of foreign nations with greater facility
than that of the United States—and so long as
we support this government, and retain an hon
orable rank in the estimation of the judicious,
and honest part of mankind, the treasuries of
the globe will be as the bank of this country.
It may therefore be said with justice that the
United States are at length in the poflelfion of
those great objedts for which so much blood and
treasure were expended, peace, liberty, ana
safety : The preservation of these, depends on
the tranquility of the federal government ; nor
is it easy to conceive that so long as this govern
ment is administered on its genuine principles,
any man, or body of men, will be able by secret
cabals, or open hostility, to {hake the attachment
of the people to it: It is not hazarding too much
to fay that the people realize that the govern
ment is a creature of their own ; that it reds on
their fulTrages ; that it has produced a most hap
py alteration in their circutnftances ; and that
643
on its continuance and quiet adininiftratioD, all
their hojits of prosperity dfre. suspended.
Conc/ufion of Gov. Chittenden's J'pach to the Icg 'tjla-
ture cf Vermont, <jii accepting hit appointment.
" Therefore with a firm reliance on receiving
that kind aid and support from the council and
house ot reprefentaiives, that the nature of my
office requires, llhall accept the office to which X
am elected, and am ready to take the qualifica
tions pointed out by the conititution ; and I pray
God to grant me wisdom to conduct agreeable ir>
his will, and then, 1 trust, it will be for the belt
good of his and my people."
The pliilofophers of Europe have long been in
the habit of cotilidering the Americans as an infe
rior order of beings. Even the philosophical
Raynal has exprefled such an idea. The nume
rous improvements in mechanics, agriculture,
philosophy and politics, which have been made
by Americans, are fufficient to refute this positi
on. Every day produces some improvement in
agriculture and the ul'eful arts. Let it be remem
bered, that the great promoter of ele&rical
knowledge was an American. America has lhewn
the world the firft instance of a perfeCl govern
ment, in which perfect liberty and energy are
combined. Even in the fine arts she has proved
the talents of her sons. Some of the firft paint
ers in Europe are natives of this land. Trum
bull has brought the genius of painting inter his
own country. Barlow and" Dwiglit have shewn
that we are capable of aspiring to excellence in
the higher poetry, whilst the author of M'Kingal
boldly rivals even the immortal Butler in lh#
c9mic style. These are mentioned only as ex
amples. Many other* have (hewn great abilities.
B®f«eir merits are well known, not only to
tHeir countrymen, but also foreigners.
(Gen. Advertiser.)
WILLIAM HARD MAN the Smith had three
sons, Tom Ned, and George. George who wasth®
youngeft,h« put apprentice toataylor ■> the two el
der were otlierwfe provided for : He had by
some means the opportunity of fending them to
fchoo! upon a foundation, and afterwards to the
.University. Will thought that this opportunity
|to give his boys good learning, was not to be mif
fed : " Learning,' 1 he said, " wasa portion which
she D-v-1 could not wrong, them of ; and when
had done what he " ought for them, they mull
do for themselves."
As he had not the fame power to proenre them liv
ings, when they had fiuifhed their studies, they
came tO'Eondon. They were both scholars ; but
Tom was a genius, and Ned was, a dunce ; Ned
became uflier in a school at the yearly salary of
twenty ponnds and Tom soon diftinguiflied liim
felfasan author : He wrote many pieces oflgreat
excellence ; but his reward was sometimes with
held by caprice, and sometimes intercepted by
envy. He pafled his time in penury and labour j
and his mind was abftra<fted in the recollection
of lentiment, and perplexed in the arrangement
ofhis ideas and the choice ofexprefl\on.
George in the mean time became a maflerin hi*
trade, kept ten men conftantlyat work upon the
board, drank his beer out of a ftlver tankard and
boasted, that he might be as well topafsin a few
years as many of those for whom he made laced
clothes, and who thought themselves his betters.
Ned wiflied earnestly that he could change stati
ons with George ; but Tom in the pride ofhis heart
disdained them both ; and declared, that he would
rather perifti upon a hulk with cold and' hunger,
than steal through life in obfeurity, and be for
gotten "when he was dead.
PLAN OF THE NEW OPERA-HOUSE LONDON
THE ground plan, two acres ! The entrances to he five ; door#
for departure, seventeen ; the whole building brick,ftone and iron ,
the floors arphed with stone, and the stair cases ftonc ; boxes 208,
6 feet by 8. and 7 feet high ; each box has 1 retiring room behind
it, 12 by 17 feet ; pit, 24. rows, to hold 70operfons ; firft gallery
400, second gallery 300. The fliape of the theatre oval ; 5 floors
of boxes, 41 on each floor; 6th floor is to be the gallery. The
stage measures go feet by 80. Coffee ; room in thrtfc compart
ments, domed,covering a (pace of 112 feet by 32 ; the lupper
room of fame dimensions ; concert-room behind the ftage,an oval,
84 by 42 feet. The efliffiate of the expence, 1.150,000. The
lura paid for the purchase of the Leicester house eftite, where th«
Opeta-Houfe is to be cre£led, was 1.30,000.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
6 pr. Cents 14f. pr. £ .
3 pr. Ccnti 7/2 Iso-
Defcred 6 pr. Cents 5J9 of.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 12/4 —12/6.
Indents ?y*2
State debts 8/2. 8/3.
LATEST ARRIVALS AT THIS PORT.
Brig Susannah, Armstrong,
Schooner Recovery, Miller,
Betfev, Allen,
Sloop Charming-Sally, Lilibridge,
«■ Phenix, Shepherd,
Inriuftry, Briggs,
Brilliant,
■■■■ Union,
LONDON.
FUNDED DEBT,
or 70 pr. cent.
or do.
30 do.
62| do.
36* do.
41* do.
Montego-Bay
Wilmington, (N.C.)
Surrinam
Cape-Fratcois
Vi rginia
R. Ifoni
Waterman
Tayior.Discourses on Davila.
NO. XXIII. — COKTIKtiB.
Uti Unique regem, fua multitudo conialutavcraf.
THE regent ancl the Cohllable, matters of the
person and authority of the King, held the
balance in the middle. The Conitable was in
deed much opposed to Calvinism, and attached
to the Catholic religion ; his af
fection for his nephews, and the love of peace,
induced liini to consent to make use of manage
ment in matters of religion, until the Kingfhould
arrive afhis majority. But to corroborate more
and more;, the authority of the young monarch,
though a minor, those who held the reins of go
vernment thought proper to conducft him to
Reims, where they prelerve with veneration, ths
Phial which a pigeon brought down f> oni heaven,full
of holy id, with which Clovis was anointed and con
secrated.
During the ceremony of consecration, there
arose a new contest concerning precedency, be
tween the Princes of the blood and the Duke of
Cttije. The former j>retende4 that it was due to
their birth. The Duke on his llde demanded it,
as firft peer ofFrance. The council'pf State de
cided it in favor of the Duke of Guise, because the
presence of the peers ofFrance, who are twelve
in number, fixeccleflaftical and fix laical, was
ceflary in this ceremony ; whereas, the Princes
of the blood, who have 110 function to discharge
in it, may dispense with their attendance. This
light fpaik served to inkindle and embitter more
and more, the spirits of all parties. The Admi
ral and Prince of Conde had set every machine in
motion todraw in the Conftableto theirintereft :
They were powerfully seconded by the Marshal
of Montmorenci, his eldest son, who was Itricftly
connected with them. The Constable, always
firm in his resolutions, could not determine to
dishonor his old age, by placing himfelf at the
head of a party, nor by leagueing himfelf with
those whom he thought new enemies of religion.
The Admiral, always fruitful in resources and
expedients, imagined one at this time, calculated
ta bring the Conitable into their views, by ways
more indirect. There was then held at Pontoife,
an aflembly of some deputies of the Provinces, to
deliberate upon the means of acquitting the iin
menfe debts, which the crown had contra>fled in
the last wars. The Marihal of Montmorenci pre
fitled in it. There were also some friends of the
Admiral. He made use of them, to bring upon
the carpet, whatever he thought proper. The
Coiigtiies and the Prince of Condi, there demanded,
by the organ of their confidents, that tlieyfhould
oblige all those who had received benefits orgra
tifications, from the Kings Francis Ift and Henry
lid, to report them to the royal treasury, pre
tending, that a calculation being made, without
inipofing new burthens, they might, extinguish
the greatelt part of the debt, which both within
and without the kingdom, cruflied the state and
individuals.
Those who liacl received the greatest benefac
tions from the late Kings, were tlie Guises, Diana
of Valentijiois, the Marshal Saint Andre, and the
Constable. They were desirous indeed of hum
bling the former : but as to the latter, they meant
only to inspire him with fears and jealouiies, and
to force him to join the party of the Piinces;
that he might not expose liiinfelf to lose the fruit
offo many years of services and toils. The ani
rnofity of faction was so lively, that the Colignics
were not afraid to excite in their uncle those cha
grins, and inquietusles. But this ltep had the
ordinary fortune of deligns too subtle and too re
fined. It produced an efFect directly contrary to
that which was intended. The proposition a
mounted to nothing less, than to take away from
the Constable and the Guises, the greatest part of
their property. Diana, of Valentinois, with
whom boih parties had formed alliances, began
to fecondthe Constable, concerningthis research,
which interested them equally. She concerted
her plan with art, or a kind of prudence, which
is not uncommon in women of her character ; her
aversion for the Queen, and her fears of loftng
all the gains of her trade, made her think that
the true means of her fafety,would be to allure the
Constable into the party of the Catholic religion,
and a closer connection with the Guises. She
launched out into inve<ftives against the Admiral
and the Prince of Conde, whom ihe considered as
the authors of the proposition made at the afiem
bly atPontoife ; Ihe deplored the miferiesof the
state, whose government, in the hands of a child
and a foreign woman, was the instrument of per
nicious councils, to foment the ambition andgra
tify the paflions of certain individuals, to whom
were facrificed the fafety and tranquility of the
kingdom ; into which they introduced, without
lhame, Heresies condemned by the Church, and
against which the late Kings, with just severity,
had employed fire and sword. She added, with
the fame-vivacity, and sincerity, that all France
was aftoniflied and enraged, to fee, that a Mailt
morenci, whose house had been the firft of the
whole nation to embrace Christianity ; that a
man, who for so long a time had filled the firft
office in tlie state, ihonld atprefent allow hu.ifelf
to be faf'cinated by the artifices of a wo;man ,
that, a slave to her caprices, and to the ""P.
information of the King of Navarre, fie co,lfe " e
ed to ali their enterpnzes again!* religion,
reinonftrated to the Con (table, that laving
arms and the power in his hands, he was
penfibly obliged to oppose the dd g
of governm enr, and to watch Itill, as he
so many times before, over the confervanon ofa
tottering throne, and a religion wholly forfaken.
She recalled to his recollection thaf ancient con
dud; which had procured him so much glory, in
oppolino- the aggrandizement of grangers, biie
flared him that he would not fufFer two women,
one all Italian, the other of Navarre, to ruin t »e
principal foundations of the French Monarchy,
that is to fay, religion and piety ; to remember
that the regent was the fame Catharine, whole
conduct he had always censured, and whose cha
racter he detested ; that the Hugonots werethofe
fame feftaries, whom he h'ad so eagerly perfect
ed under Henry lid j that neither the persons
nor the nature of things were changed ;
whole world would believe, that enfeebled by
age, he let himfelf be guided, either by the ambi
tion or caprice of others, since he appeared so
different from what he had been. Such was the
language of Diana, and who so propel" as an har
lot, tp prostitute religion to the purposes of am
"■bition, avarice, and faction. The only wonder
is, that these discourses of the Dutchefs, which
ftie took care frequently to repeat, began to make
an impreflion on the Constable. Sometimes an
indignation against his nephews, sometimes the
apprehensions oflofing his fortune,and sometimes
his hatred against Calvinism, so disposed him to
listen to the Dutchefs, that at length her insinu
ations, together with those of Magdalen of Savoy,
his wife, succeeded to detach him from the party
of the Queen. This Magdalen saw with vexation
the unbounded favors granted to the Goligiiiss,
which ihe wished might he confered on her bro
ther Honore, of Savoy, Marquis of Villars. Thus
her jealonfy negletfied nothing to serve the latter,
and to hurt the nephews of her husband. Diana
also, engaged the Marfhaldc Saint Andre to second
her in this negotiation. The fear of losing his
fortune, the violent hatred which he conceived
against the Colignies, and the plausible pretext of
prefervingtlie Catholic faith, urged him to em
ploy his influence with the Constable in favor of
the Crutfcs ; who, as soon as they were informed
of it, omitted neither artifices, fubmiflions nor in
trigues, to compleat the conquest ; hoping by this
means to re-establish their power, or at least to
recover a great part of it. The Marshal of Mont
morenci was theonly one who could croft this ne
gotiation. But Diana, his wife, having fallen
sick at Chantilly, he was obliged to leave his fa
ther, to attend her. The Guift.<, difembarrafled
of this obftaclt, put tbe last hand to their agree
ment with the Constable, for the preservation of
the Catholic religion and the mutual defence of
their fortunes. (To be continued.)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, *)
Oiiobcr 14, I 790. J
NOTICE is hereby given, That Protofals will be received at
the Office of the Secretary of the Treasury, to the 30th day
of November next, ihclufivc, for the supply of all Rations which
may be required for the use of the United States, from the firft day
of January to the thirty-firll day of December 1791, both days in
clusive, at Springfield, 111 the State of Mafrachufetts, and the Poflof
Well-Point, in the State of New-York.
The Rations to be supplied, are to consist of the following Arti
cles, viz. One pound of Bread or Flour,
One pound of Beef, or of a pound of Pork,
Haifa jill of Rum,-Braudy, orWhifky,
One quart of Salt, }
Two quarts of Vinejrar, (
Two pounds of Soap, > P r " 100 ratlOTls '
One pound of Candles, )
Separate Proposals may be made for each place, fpecifying the
lowest price pr. Tation.——*No crcdit is required.
INTELLIGENCE-OFFICE,
No. 2cß, in Market, above 6th St r eet, South fide,
WILL be negotiated all kinds of PAPER
MONEY and
Public Securities,
BUSINESS tranfadted in public offices in the
city, and fueh Paper-Money and Certificates furniftied, as will
make payment at the Land Office equal to Gold and Silver
MONEY borrowed or loaned, and BILLS
BONDS, and di (counted. '
HOUSES, Farms, Lands, and Lots, bought
and fold, let or leafed, and Honfes, Rooms, Boarding and Lodg
ing procured for Strangers, or others.
BOOK-KEEPERS, Clerks, School-Matters
Waiters, Nurfcs, Seamftrcffes, Chamber and other Maids, and
thole of other ptofeflions, who come well recommended mav
hear of employ ; and Employers be supplied, by applying to '
FRANCIS WHITE.
Deater in Paper Money, and Public Securities.
IC?' SUBSCRIBERS in the City and State of
New-York—and to the Eaflward as far as Bo Von,
willpleafc to pay their arrearages to Mr. P. Wetmorr'
a*the Pop-Office, New-York—who will atfo receive
JubJcriptiOHs Jor the Gazette.
644
At the
Gazette of the United States:
(A NATIONAL PAPER.)
Fublilked at the Seat of the National Government,
C.omptiiing
I, XT' ARLY and authentic accounts of the Proceedings ojCongreft
' iLi—hi Laws, Acts, and Resolutions, communicated so as 10
form an hiftorv of the tranfaaiorfs of the national govemment.
11. Impartial Sketches of the Debates ojCofigrefs.
111. Ejjays oo the great fubje£ls of Government; alio upon the
local and national rights ot the American citizens, as founded up
on the national or stale Constitutions ; and upon every other fub
jefi, which mav appear suitable fop newspaper difculTion.
IV Aferies'cf Paragraphs, calculated to catch the " living man
ners as they rife," and to point the public attention to objefl*
that have an important refeience to domeltic, social and public
happiness. . .
V. The Interejls of the United States as connt&cd with their
literary Inllitutions ; religious and moral objedls ; improvements
in Science, Arts, Education and Humanity; their foreign
treaties, alliances, conncftions, ice.
VI. Every species of Intelligence which may affect the commer
cial, agriccltural, manula&jji ing, or political intcrefts of the Ame
rican nation. *
VII. A chain of DomtfliMtcurrcnccs.
VIII. A leries of foreign mticles of Intelligence.
IX, The flute tj the Funds ; Courses of Exchange ; Prices Current,
Published every Wednesday and Saturday.
The price to subscribers, (cxclufive of postage) Three Dol
lar s per annum.
The firft semi-annual payment to be made at the time of sub
scribing : The r econd at the end of the year.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Win be received in all the capita! towns upon the Continent ; atjo at Ne,
69, Market-Sir cet t between Second and Third Streets, Philadelphia.
AT this important crisis, the ideas that fill th'e mind, arc pfeg
rnnt with events of the greatest magnitude—to lkengthen and
complete the union of the States*—to extend and pioteft jtheir
commerce— to explore and arrange the national funds —to rcftorc and
eilablifh the public credit—-will require the energies of the patriots
and sages of our country —Ihnce the propriety ofencreafing the me
diums vjknowledge and information.
AMERICA, from th;s period begins her natio'nal exiftcnic—
44 the world is all before her"—the wisdom and fol
ly—the misery and prosperity of the empites, Jlates, and
which have had their clay npon the great theatre ol time, and art
now no more, suggest the xnott important mementos —these, witll
the rapid i'eries of cvenis, in which our country has been
have taught the enlightened citizens of the United States, that free\
pom and government —liberty and laws, arc inseparable.
This convi&ion led to the adoption of the new conftiiution ;
for however various the lentiments, refpefting the nzer?//ofthip <
fyftcm, all good men are agreed in the neceflity of an ejjtcientje
deral government.
A paper, therefore, eftabliftisd upon national, independent, and
impartial principles-— which shall take up thepremifed articles,upon
a competent plan, it is prcfumed, will be highly intereliiug,
and meet with public t approbation and patronage.
The Editor of this publication is determined to leave no avenue
of information unexplored : —He solicits the afliflance of persons
of leisure and abilities—which, united with his own afliduity, he
flatters hi id felt will render the Gazette of the United States not
onworthy general fncoura-gement and is, with due rcfpe&,
the public's humble fcrvant, THE EDITOR.
4pr<J 15, 1790.
THIS publication commenced with the
present government of the United States its
principal objecfls are compri fed in the above plan
they have been thus far attended to, according
to the bell abilities of the Editor—and that thc'y
are deemed interesting, has been evinced by the
general approbation which the paper has receiv
ed, and the exteniive circulation it lias obtained :
It ihall be the aim of the Editor to keep up the
spirit of his plan— every communication condu
cive to that point, will be gratefully received.—
Freedom, Government, Union and Peace constitute
the happiness of every country —the United States
in a particular manner, have all their prefentr
enjoyments, and future hopes, suspended on the
preservation of these ejfential pillars of human feli
city : In an ardent wilh to promote these great
objetfls, the " Gazette of the United States" ori
ginated—to these it has been—and shall be sedu
lously devoted ; and while it cotitinues an impar
tial vehicle to the public of governmental tran
fa<ftions, and intereftinginformation on the most
important fubjevfls of life, the Editor cannot fail
of public encouragement.
Agreeable to the original design, the
tion is now commenced in Philadelphia, the feat
of government for the United States.—The pa
tronage of the citizens of this metropolis is here- \
by solicited :—Thofe who may wilh to form a '
judgment of the work, are refpetftfully informed •
that the firft volume (from April 1789, tp April i
1790) may be infpedted at thehoufeof the Editor, J
No. 69, Market-Street. /
The second volume commenced in April last :/
The Editor can supply the numbers complete fronj
that period—which contain the laws of thefeconA
feilion ot Congress—and the debates and proceed
ings of the house of Representatives, during fqur
months of the feflion.
Among the innumerable blessings derired to
the people of the United States from the present
general government, there is none produdlive of*
happier effects than that spirit of universal
citizenship which has in a great measure era
dicated party and local diftindtions,and now forms
a great national feature in the American charac
ter Ihe Editor, therefore, with confidence,
takes his station in the capital of the United
States, being fnlly persuaded, that in proportion
to his merits, he will receive the patronage of
the public. JOHN FENNO.
The pTiU of this tafier is 3 dolls, pr. anii. and $d.Jingtc numbif-
PLAN or THE
CONDITIONS.
To the P U 15 I, I C.