Z/t,
A
<«
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 65, MARKE
[No. 60, of Vol. ll.] Wednesday, November 24, 1790.
Discourses on Davila.
I'tiumque regem, fua multitado conlalulavcrat
THE Prince of Condi and the Admiral, irri
tated to fee fupprefled a party, upon wliofe
Dumber and forces they had founded aJI their
hopes, and not being able to hinder the executi
on of the Edict, which all the parliaments and
1110 ft of the inferior tribunals prefled into execu
tion with great ardor, imagined another expedr-'
ent : it was to engage the ministers of the Hu
gonots to demand a public conferrence, in pre
sence of the King, with the Catholic Prelates, up
on the controverted points. This indirect me
thod appeared to them proper to obtain infenfi
bly, a liberty of conscience. The Cardinal di
Tournon, and several other Catholic Prelates, op
posed this request : they remonstrated that it was
useless to dispute about religion, with people who
were very obstinate, and who perlifted in a doc
trine condemned by the church. That if they
■wilhed to lay open- their reasons, they might ad
dress themselves to the council of Trent. The.
Cardinal of Lorrain was of opinion in favor of
the conference ; whether he flattered himfelt
that he fliould confound the Hugonots, byhisir
refiftable realoning, and convince those whom he
thought seduced, or whether, as those who envi
ed him gave our, by making an ostentatious ex
hibition of his eloquence and erudition, he wilhed
itill further to increafehis reputation and gloiy,
in so celebrated an aflembly : Whatever were
his intentions, it is certain that by not opposing
the demand ofthe Protestants, he draws into his
sentiment the prelates, who yielded to the soli
citations of the King of Navarre. This Prince,
who had long desired to hear a dispute in form,
between the Catholics and Hugonots, to clear up
his own doubts, supported with warmth the de
i'afe condutis to the ministers refugees at Gene
va, and assigned for the place of conference Poify,
a little city, five leagues from Paris.
The King appeared at Poify, with all his court,
accompanied by the Cardinals of* Bourbon, of
Lorrain, of Tournon, of Armagnac, and o iGuife,
who were to aifift at the conference on the part
of the Catholics. Themoft diftinguilhed Bish
ops and Prelates, several Dotfors oftheSorbonne,
and other Theologians of the molt celebrated
universities ofthe kingdom,were present. There
appeared on the fide of the Hugonots, Theodore
Beza, Peter Martyr Vermilly, Francis de Saint Paul,
Jthn Raymond, John Virel, with several others,
who came from Geneva, or Germany. Bezaex
plained his doctrines, with great pomp of elo
quence ; and the Cardinal of Lorrain answered
him, with what he called proofs and authorities,
drawn from the Scriptures and the fathers of the
Church. The council judged proper to with
draw the young King, because the tenderness of
liis age not permitting him to discern the truth,
there was reason to fear, that he might be sur
prized by some dangerous opinion, contrary to
rhe faith. After several debates, the alTenibly
separated without deciding any thing.
The Catholics gained only one advantage :
The King of Navarre was not fatisfied with the
Hugonots, having oblerved some variations of
their minillers in the do<itrines which they main
tained. Some followed literally the sentiments
of Calvin ; others inclined to the dotftrine ofLu
ther ; these adhered to the profeffion of faith of
the Swiss, those to the confeffion of Augfbourg.
Shocked with this inconsistency, as he thought it,
this weak Prince began to be disgusted with the
jievv opinions, and to attach himfelf to the Catho
lic religion. But the Hugonots drew from this
conference all the fruit that they had promised
thcmfelves. As soon as they came out of it, they
boasted highly that they had denionftrated the
truth of their belief, convinced the Catholic doc
tors, confounded the Cardinal of Lorrain, and
obtained of the King permiflion to preach their
dotftrine. In fa<S, of their own private authori
ty, they began to aflemble, wherever they pleas
ed, to hold publickly their sermons, with so great
an affluence of people, and so great a concourse
of nobility, as well as others, that it was no long
er polfible to restrain them.
When the magistrates attempted to hinder
their assemblies, or the Catholics attempted to
chafe them from the churches where they met,
the Hugonots run to arms, and defended them
selves. The two parties attacked each other
No. XXIII.— CONTINUED,
with fury, under the names o Hugouots and Pa
pills. The whole kingdom v sin a flame. The
power of the magistrates 1 c its energy ; the
people were in continual ten afid alarms ; the
collection of the revenues \ : interrupted, and
in the koibin of peace, an in ine and cruel war
was ff*«»ri ro iiA-livdJ. „5,/'e Queen-mother
and the King of N.ivari e, in . cd with these ex
cefles, feeing that the feverit; of-the Editft of Ju
ly, had only increased the if.."orders, convoked
another aflembly of tleputies from all the parlia
ments of the kingdom, to be iformed by them,
of the Hate of each province, nnd to deliberate
upon the molt proper means of re-eftabli/hing
tranquillity. The views of th miniflry changing
continually, as the intereffs of mi •jiers and the pajji
ons of the great varied ; it was aflonijhing, that
after so many measures taken, abandoned, reajfumed,
affairs fhoutd Jlilt remain in greater disorder, and
a more flra?ige confufittl. It was indeed impossible
tbatfuch frequent variations fl.ould reltore good
order, which an equal and uniform condudl could
alone maintain. (To be antinued.)
Erratum in our last : Before the laii word in Davila, insert
the word " both
MR. BOIVDOIN.
Saturday morning last, at oneo'clock, Death, with inexora
ble hand,fummoned to the world at spirits,(to the unspeak
able loft of the public, and his friends], the very much refpeft
ed,and highly revered character, the
Hon. JAMES BOWDOIN, Esq..
Aged 64 years,
and yesterday afternoon, his remains w .rc refpe&fully interred
in his family tomb, iu this town,
ORDER OF PROCESSION.
The Independent Com pan/ of Cadets,
commanded by Col. Bradford, —with arms revers'd, and
Drums muffled.
attended bv n Band p V YlmC'c.
T»»C *u me Inacpendem Companies,
The Officers of the Boston Miiitia,
and of the Militia in the neighboring towns.
The Society of the Cincinnati, and Officers of the late American
The Medical Society.
Governors and Officers «f Harvard-College,
The Ttuftees and Members of the Humane Socicty,
The Council and Members of the American Acadcmy of Arts
and Scienccs. #
The gentlemen Cleigy, of the town of Boston,
and the neighboring towns.
The Physicians to the deceased.
The Rev. Mr. Thacher.
Pall supported by
W Rev. Prefid. Willard,
GO
C-,
&
O
u
Hon. Judge Lowell,
Hon. Mr. Gili.,
Lieut. Governor,
The Relations.
The Deacons and Committee of the Rev. Mr. Thacher's Church,
The High Sheriff of the County,
The Hon. Chief Justice Jay, and the Hon. Judge Cushing,
Foreign Consuls,
The Members of the Hon. Council, in town.
The Members of Congrefs,in town,
The Membeis ol the Hon. Senate, and House of Keprefentatives
in town.
The Secretary and Treasurer of the State,
The S le&inen and Overseers of the town,
The Town-Clerk and Treasurer,
The Marine Society,
The Gentlemen of the Insurance Offices,
FriCnds and Acquaintance.
After the carriage of the deceased, followed his Excellency
The Governor, in his carriage.
And as great a collection of carriages of all kinds, as we ever
recoiled to have seen aflembled on a similar occation.
Captain Johnson's company of Artillery aflcmbled upon the
common, and discharged their pieces during the Proccflion.
The streets were crowded with mourning citizens :
Largely had Gov. Bowdoin shared in the diftinftions of the
world. To the honor of Harvard College, he was educated at
that Seminary of Learning ; and so highly was he diflinguilhcd
for his ablitics, that at a very early age he was eletted a Represen
tative of the town of Boston, in which office he was continued,
until he was ele&ed one of the Council of the then Province of
MalFachuietts Bay, where he served with great reputation, until
negatived by Governors Bernard and Gage, for his decided
and able opposition to British measures. He took a diftinguifh
cd part in the revolution, having been President of the Council of
this State, for a number of years during the war ; was President
of the Convention that formed the State Conffcitution, and since
the levolution, he has been Governor of this Commonwealth.
He died President of the Acadsmy of Arts and Sciences, in this
State ; President of the Humane Society ; Do&or of Laws in the
Universities of Cambridge and Edinburgh ; Fellow of the Royal
Societies of London and Dublin, and of the Society of Arts in
Great Britain.
No trait in his chara&er was perhaps more distinguished, than
his last, his death : Infpircd by religion, and upheld by the father
of mercies, he endured a most painful sickness, with the grcateft
firmnefs and patience; and received the stroke of death, with a
calmness, a resignation, and composure, that marked the truly great
and good man. Thus has died, if not the pride, at Icaft one of
the brightcft ornaments of his country, and of human nature.
649-
STREET, BETWEEN' SECOXD AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
Boston, Nov. 11
Army,
Hon. Mr. Russell,
General Lincoln.
[Whole No. 164.]
It mud afford genera] fatisfaftion to the public at large, when
it is known that the family of the Hon. Mr. Boudoir., deceased,
jet an example worthy el general imitation, in conforming to the
bye-laws of the town, refpefting the wearing ot mourning.
The Hon. Mr. Bottdoin, has, we hear, among other legacies, left
UWJUnc donations to the Uiiivcrfity at Camb.idge ; to the Aca
demy of Arts and Sciences, and to the poor of the Rev. Mr. Tha-
Cher's Church.
ROME, (Italy), August 7.
SOME Frenchmen are arretted almost every
day in this metropolis. The order extends
to every rank, strangers, priests, or hereticks ;
they are immediately conducted to the frontiers,
and wished a good voyage, after being firft strict
ly enjoyned to appear no more in the Pope's do
minions.
BERLIN, (Prussia), August 8
Since thefignature of the articles of pacificati
on, the armies of General Ufedom and Henkel,
have received orders to unite, for the formation
of a body of 60,000 men, under the command of
the Duke of Brunfwick.
That experienced leader marches into Ruflia,
immediately upon the Empress's declaration that
she will not accede to the proposals for peace be
tween her and the Porte.
His Majesty gives up his claim to Dantzick and
Thoine, to demonstrate that the object of his
arming was merely the eflablifhmeiu of peace
and the welfare of humanity, Bucliareft is to be
the feat of negotiation.
M. Beigin goes as ambafiador from Pruflia to
Conltantinople.
LONDON, September 10—14,
PARTICULARS OF THE LATE FIRE, AT MADRID.
This dreadful fire, that has been burning up
wards of ten days, has nearly deflroyed in l'lace
Mayor, one of the handfomefl squares of the ca
pital, and themoft filled with tradefinen's fhnn* ->
- i.Lua par.: '.i, t 14.11 sroiv oi'liouics of an ad
jacent ltreet, upwards of 80 in all, have already
fallen a prey to the flames ; which the public
prayers, many soldiers and workmen, with a
small engine, and several squirts, have not been
able to extinguifli. The firs began at midnight :
forthwith the miraculous image of St. Roch was
uncovered and brought, in procession, to the
square, but the conflagration, notwithstanding
the presence of the Saint, and the fervent pray
ers of the multitude, did not rage with less vio
lence. The holy sacrament succeeded but with
as little success ; the Duke of Medina Celithen
substituted the sacred image of our Saviour, be
longing to the Capuchin's convent in his hotel.
Tliefe i'ucceflive pious efforts lasted more than fix
hours, during which time it was visible the
workmen preferred prayers to exertions. The
Dominicans have been reproached with having
refufed to bring forth our lady of Atocha, a Ma
donna, who never fails of success. The fire, it is
said, was owing to a private gentleman's devoti
on, who kept, night and day, many lighted ta
pers before the shrine of a wonderful image.
Wednesday evening the NewYearwas ushered
in by the Jews, with that foleninity which diftin
guiflies that holiday from all others. The nieu
appeared in their different Synagogues eloatlied
in shrouds ; the women all in white ; which cast
a very awful refle<stion on the ungodly among
them ; for it is presumed, that on that feftival
the almighty fits in judgment for poor sinners ;
and on that account the [ews invoke angels, pa
triarchs, and deceased friends, to intercede for
their iniquities.
After the conquelt of Zettin, the Turks were
conltrained in their flight to abandon a great
number of children ; previous to which they fatt
ened round the necks ofthefe little unfortunates,
a note, on which was written as follows : " May
the God of mercy inspire with pity those int»,
whose hands this innocent child may fall. Praise
and glory to thee, all-merciful God ; Thou haft
formed man for life. Wherefore dost tlioufuffir
thy children to deltroy eath other ?—Ah ! nii
ferable orphans ! Abandoned by the aufhor of
thy existence—God alone sail be thy guide and
thy ptotedtor." ,
Our Northern neighbours punish/with exem
plary severity a crime which is evary day com
mitted in this metropolis with impunity. The
butchers blow up their meat to distend the skin
ny fibres, and give the meat th» appearance of
fatnefs.—Veal, in particular, is every day blown
up with breath ifl'uing from lungs infetfled, per
| haps, with the worit of all difeafcs—but, in fact,the breath of even a person in perfect health, is
well known to be rankpoifon.
The Princes of France are now degraded to
pensioners. Tliisis perhaps as great a stride to
wards despotism as any Monarch of trance atany
one time ever made.
The Maeftres de Camp, who have lately re
volted at Nancy, in Lorrain, in poinc of number
and appearance, form the fineft regiment ot ca-
valryin Europe. , . ,
The sum for which the ,iwo lame ducks wad
dled out of the Alley this week, is said to amount
to near (telling. ,
The situation of the riling States ot America is
rather an alarming one ; —the arrearage of inter
est amounts to I 5.000,000 ot dollars ; (he foreign
and domeltic debts form a total of 67,000,000 ;
but the domestic debt is so far from being accu
rately eftitnated, that it is generally fuppoicd W»
be 100,000,000 ; yet it has been pi opofed to pro
cure more loans by way of experiment.
A letter from Philadelphia has the following
paragraph t " Our trade is rapidly increasing,
and particularly our China trade, which has met
with the utmost success. Two of our China vel
fels have just arrived with valuable cargoes; the
deirfand for Indian goods is very conllderable.
Philadelphia promises fairly to become a pro
vince of the firft mercantile consequence among
the United States; its merchants are the wealthi
est and its inhabitants themoft numerous. Theie
advantages, added to those of their situation, can
not fail to make and maintain them the firlt peo-
ple of America. '
A fadtjhas lately been discovered that mult in
fallibly Hop, in some degree, ttie horrid carnage
of sparrows, ahd lefien the number of those im
portant garden personages, called scare-crows .
A curious observer proves that sparrows are more
ufeful than ieftrudlive ; for a pair of those birds,
during the dme they have their young to feed,
destroy eveiy week 3360 caterpillars. This cal
culation he rounded upon adlual oblervation ; he
discovered tljat the two parents carried to the
neft4o caterpillars in an hour. He then suppo
seS (which is a moderate supposition) that the
iparrow# enter the neit twelve hours each day,
which is a daily consumption of 480 ; this multi
plied by 7, gives 3360 of thole voracious pelts
•destroyed by only two birds.
Not long since a gentleman in Leicestershire
fold a ram for three hundred guineas ! [The
price of a vote.]
TIPFOO S/118, agreeable to accoantt from In
dians busily employed in carrying on offenfive ]
operations against the Britilh fettleiuents in that
quarter. . His inveteracy againftthe Engliih has
always been great. The lad letters from Mad
ras, received in London, mention that vigorous
preparations were making by the Euglifh to op
pose his progress ; or, to tife their expreifion,
" to strike him on the most vital part, with all
their combined force." Tippoc has thrown off
his turban, and swore never again to wear it un
til the Travencore country was subdued.
An alliance matrimonial is on the tapis, be
tween the Heir to the crown of Naples and the
Archduchess Amelia, daughter to the King of
Hungary.
Extratt of a letter from Paris, Sept. 7.
« The manner of doing business in this king
dom isnow such, especially with Foreign Ambaf
fadors,that no absolute certainty of measures can
b» come at. Mirabeau, for the moment, does
every thing ; but it is to be hoped, his power
will not lalt. The doctrine of war is his ; the
liegociation with foreign ministers is direded by
him. The King has no more power than an in
fant. His ministers areinfignificant. Everything
centers in the Aflembly—and there half a dozen
men govern absolutely. Things are coming fact
to a crisis—which mnft end in a civil or foreign
war. Perhaps this devoted country may exper
ience the horrible consequences of both.
" M. Necker was again seized a few days ago
-with a llight return of his complaint, which he
generally feels when any frefli cauf'eof grief ari
ies. Notwithstanding which, he was earnestly
preparing the memorial onthefubjed: of ajfignats*
when a mob,- raised to oppose a vote of thanks to
the Marquis de Bouille, and to the Garde Nation
ale ofMetz under his command, demanded aloud
in the Thuilleries, not only the dismission, but al
fothe heads of the Ministers, and more violently
that of M. de la Tour du Fin, and M. Necker.—
Horse and foot were inftanrly ready to proted:
them ; but the General thought it his duty at the
fame time to insinuate, that he wiihed they would
absent tliemfeTves a few hours.
" Mr. Necker was in his closet. Several of his
friends came out of breath from the Thuilleries,
telling him he had not five minutes to lose, for
the mob were coming. At that moment an Aid
du Camp of M. de la Fayette, came in, faying,
" I beg, Sir, you will not -be alarmed ; I have
600 men with me, and we will all die, before one
* Adignants are a fort of paper money, like hank-hills. Monf.
Mirabeau propotcd to issue to the amount of two millions
in this manner, and when the eflatcs of the Clergy were to be fold
thole aflignats were to be accepted as calh.
hair of head is touched."
longer refilled, and said, « Since it « so, I **
go f for were a single bayonet to be used in in.
cause, I should never be happy.
- The Aid-du-can,p said, That '«
of this lie had brought a coacli—in '
Mrs. Necker, and the Aid du-camp, ia g
themselves, fhey out of the hote ,
ed, to avoid being remarked. It was ~
o'clock in the evening. The a.a-du-camp du eA
ed the coachman thro every street which he*"
to be without danger. Krotn that hour until thr
o'clock in the morning, that v.rtuousMin.fte;
wandered in the dark on the lugh roads, a net a
cross the fields, in a hired coach with twoho.fes
attended by his faithful companion, and theaia
dU " Ac'two o'clock, M. de la Fayette who bueti
the road he had taken, sent another aid-du can M
to him, to inform ' that Paris was perfeitlj
*•<» X "7'
o'clock, and the fame piorning he sent hisrelig
nation to the King, and wrote a letter to the A 1
fC « bI M. de la Tour da Pin, Minister of War, fpeni
also the best part of the night out of his
" I have some idea that this late tumult is, it
part, owing to the planners of the immenfeemil
fion of Affignats, who dread M. Necker s oppo
fnion, and seek this method to force him out.
Authentic particulars ofthe dreadful affair at Nancy,
from M. Bouille's Letters to the National Jjjcmbly,
dated Nancy, Sept. I.
Since my entrance into this city I have not had
a moment to spare, to fend a regular account oi
my conduct, and of the present state of thing!
here. On the 31 it, I aflembled the troops def
tined to the quell the rebellion of the three tre
ginients of Nancy. 1 read to them the. Deere*
of the National Assembly ; and from their man
uer I saw I might depend on their disposition anc
order to execute the decree.
At ten o'clock, on the road from Pont a MouT
Ton to Nancy, I was met by a deputation fromthf
Municipality and tl»e garrison of Nancy. My an
Twer was positive, that the garrison mult quit th<
city, and Meflis. Denoue andMAtstiGNE mull
be set at liberty. 1 continued my inarch, and ai
two o'clock in the afternoon I arrived within t
league and a half.tf the city.
Here I was agaU met by deputies, to whom
repeated the conditions, and added besides, tha
they mutt deliver t# me four of the most culpa
ble of each regiment, whom 1 should fend to th<
National Aflembly. A delay of one hour was de
fired. I granted it : at four o'clock 1 approach
ed the city ; I made my troops halt at 30 yards
from the walls. _
A deputation from the Municipality, and fron
:he King's regiment informed me, that the sol
diers were departing according to my orders,
ran to my advanced guard to prevent an atftion
While the soldiers were going out of the othei
gates, one only was guarded by soldiers fron
each of the three regiments. I marched to th<
gate with my vanguard; I summoned the gat<
:o be surrendered ; I was answered by the dif
charge of cannon and mulketry. The Nationa
Guard returned the fire, burst open the gate
ind it was no longer possible to Hop my men
;hey killed all that encountered them.
When arrived at the Great Square, I form«c
my troops in order of battle. They fired on u
from the windows. I immediately advanced
lirough different streets, to the Arsenal, and thi
juarters of the regiments. Here a furious com
>at commenced —which lasted three hours,
lad not more than 2400 regulars, and 6 or 70c
National Guards ; and we were attacked bj
0,000; for the insurgents were joined by the
ower part of the inhabitants.
At seven o'clock, the Swiss regiment of Chat
:auxvieux, being" part cut to pieces, and part
aken prisoners, the regiment of Meltre-de camp
>eing fled out of the city, the Kings regiment
enttome, that they would surrender. 1 order
lered them to march out of the city to their def.
iiiededquarters.'>ndthenl repaired to the Town
i.oufe-
To-day order is entirely, re-established, and
the citizens are fatisfied. We have loft a great
many men ; I cannot at present exatfly fpecify
the number of the dead, but I believe they a
mount to atleaft three hundred.
Monf. Malf eigne has rejoined the fcarabineers,
who have returned to their duty, and have de
livered up twenty of the ring-leaders ot the in
furre<ftion.
PARISIAN INTELLIGENCE
National Assembly
M. V iellard,from the Commitee ofßeports,
gave an account of some horrid excefies lately
committed in tHe city of Moutaubon. The peo
ple of this city being heated and inflamed by the
seditious writings that have been industriously
dispersed by the clergy and the enemies of liberty,
collected in great bodies, and refilled the Muni
cipal officers in the exercise of their duty, com
mitted the greatett cruelties upon the Proteftanti,
650
and had killed numbers of theft unfortunate
people. Five of the officers of the National guard
were also killed by these wretched fanatics. la
fliort, the city ofMontaubon was one fccne of
blood. The Afl'embly, after some debate on this
fubiedt pafled the following decree : The Na
tional Afl'embly being informed of the troubles
which prevail in tb* city ofMontaubon, and from
a conviction that it is their duty to delay no time
in gaining light into'the horrid excefles that: lav* ,
been there comined, decree, that the President
wait immediately on tbe King, and entreat him
I to take the ncceflary steps for reftpring tranquili
ty to the city, to give orders for all the citizens 1
to wear the national cockade, and that all Pro
testants and others, not of the Catholic faith, be
put under the protection of the laws ; and also
decree that he will inrtantly take the n)oft ex
peditions and efficacious measures that justice
may be done upon those, who, either by negledt
in their several duties, or by seditious combinati
on, have excited and fomented the troubles of ■
that city.
The maflacre of the Protestants at Montaubon
was occasioned by that intolerant rage which the
Clergy of all nations, and of all times, havebeen .
so profligate as to excite in the bafoms of the ig
norant. The Bishop ofMontaubon was wicked
enough to colle<ft the people, and chiefly tbe wo
men and from the churches of his diocese the
female furies, warmed to enthusiasm by the hor
rid dodirlnes of the Priests, and their rage being*
fan<ftionedjby Mafles, were sent forth in all direc
tions, murder and bloodflied, for the
fake of preferviiig their holy religion.
A letter was next read from a great number of
Friars, of the aboliflied Beneditftine Order,
p.laining bitterly of the tyranny of their fuperion, .
in refunng to absolve them of the oaths of super
stition and bigotry ; and another from the Jews
of Paris, craving thedecifion of the Afl'embly on
their fate ; both of whiclj were remitted to the
committee of reports.
The Emperor of Morocco has
against Spain, on which account three regiments
have been embarked at Cadiz to defend the Spa
nifli coasts molt likely to be attacked by these
Barbarians.
No Meflenger has yet arrived from Madrid,
though hourly expe&ed.
The universal conversation this day upon
'Change is in favor of a general peace in Europe.
Numbers of people complain
behaviour of Government upon the occasion,
though, perhaps, it may be wholly unavoidable.
Truth, however, mult come out, soon or late—a
Gazette account of further Negociations may be
at no great distance.
The jiumber of killed and wounded on both
fides, in the late mutiny, at Nancy, is ftr ;ed, in
a private letter, received by yesterday's mail, at
upwards of 1600.
The rapid growth of the salmon may not be
generally known : A gentleman of credit at War
rington, caught one on the 7th Feb. which weigh
ed seven pounds and three quarters : He marked
it on the back, fin and tail, with fciflars, and then
turned it into the river. It was taken on the
17th day of the following month, and then it
weighed seventeen pounds and an half.
ELECTION DINNER,
In the Reign of Queen Elizabeth, Sir Oliver
Wilkie was chosen Member of Parliament for the
city of Briltol ; and, as he was a gentleman ofex
tenfive benevolence, he gave so sumptuous an en
tertainment at his eledlion, that a maiden Auni;
of Sir Oliver gave io,oool. from him and the fa
mily, because (he considered him as too prodigal.
What reason the good old lady had to think so,
will appear from the following bill of fare at
this grand dinner !
Calves Feet Soup at the upper End
At the bottom of the. table, roast Rabbit
At Sir Oliver's right hand, Pewed Cockles
At his left fide, poached Eggsy, iih Hop Topi
Opposite fide, boiled Mushrooms
Middle black Caps
Second Course.
Difli of Fish at the upper end (fried Sprats)
Atthe bottom, Tripe ragoued in its own liquor
NexttoSir Oliver's right hand, Rice Eritters
Opposite, Eggs alamode
Ditto, to the right, Oyflers on Ihells
Left fide, Radiflics
Middle, black Caps as above
Butter allowed for cooking, half lb. o
Salt and Pepper o
Two bottles of Ginger Wine drank at and after dinner o 2 J
Toast and Water v O
Ordered to four waiters in white waistcoats
Bread and fmallßeer, what you please
Received then of Mr. Cuthbert Cowledge,
Steward to Sir Oliver Wilkie, one (hilling and
seven pence half-penny (he deducting a farthing
tor prompt payment) being a full consideration
for Sir Oliver Wilkie's election dinner, and re
ceived, in full, by me, R. K.
LONDON.
Fl RST pOU USE
Ram, at Brijlol, Juvc 4> 15® 3
s. a.
O t
o t
O 1
o
O o
o o|
9 1§
o 15
o oj
o lg
O 1
o
o o£
O I
O o
i 7}EXTRACTS,
SEPARATE wooden types were invented by
Laureutiui Cofltr, at Harleim, in 1430 : Cut me
tal types by Gei>ufleich y or rather by his brother
Gutenberg, afiifted by the liberality of 'John Fuji,
tjr taujliis, at Mentz, in 1444. With these types,
the earliest edition of the bible was printed in
1450. The art of calling types in matrices was
invented by Peter Schoeffer, the fon-inlaw ol
Fanflus, in 14*2. The fir ft edition of Tully's
Offices, printed by Fuji and Schnejfcr, is dated
1465. About that time printing began to spread
itfelf with great rapidity thro theprititjpal cities
KING JAMES the Ift. wrote a Treatise on
the heinous sin of using Tobacco, entitled—
" A counterblafle to Tobacco."—The royal pedant
represents tliofc, who use tobacco, as guilry of
" great vanitie and uncleannefle —of {infill and
(hameful lust and concludes his inventive in
these terms : " It is a custom loathsome to the
eye—hateful to the nofe—harmfull to the brain
—dangerous to the lungs—and in the black (link
ing fume thereof, nearest resembling the horrible
stygian fmoake of the pit that is bottomlelle.
King James's Works, p. 222.
COMMON FAME
Amuses people with what does notconcejn them, and her re
ports are generally void of foundation ; she marries and bunts
numbers, without even their permiflion or knowledge ; raifcs
vast armies and equips mighty fleets without a Tingle iai thing o
expence to the potentate tor whose service they are intended ; hgnts
bloody battles, and leaves thousands slain on the field, who are
nevertheless i'n good health; takes and la} •: in athes, cities and pro
vinces that never existed : All these things, and many ot el's o a
like nature, ftxc is doing continnallv. "If you believe her lhe wi
persuade you that you are entirely ignorant of your own concerns ;
anayour neighbors are by her made acquainted thu y >u ao,and in
tend doing, wtiat you yourfelf never had either intention 01 pow
er to accornplilh this is common fame.
SAVANNA-LA-MAR, Oft. J.
Thurfdaylaft, three female Eboe Slaves belong
ing to Fonchill estate in this parifli, threw them
selves into the sea, determined to put a period to
their existence ; and in afew hours afcer were
discovered floating on the ocean, by some of the
eftatfr's negroesthat had been fi(hing.
Saturday come on an atflion ot defamation,
wherein Mr.- Campbell was the complainant,
and Mr. Sandilande the defendant. It ap
peared the plaintiff was lervant upon the proper
ty, at the rate of 701. pr. ann. the defendant liav.
ing slain, or caused to be (lain,-a bead, the pro
perty of the plaintiff's employer—he was prosecu
ted, and damages awarded : Mr. Campbell being
the-nmttrW evidence.
This irritated the defendant—upon which he
made ufeofvery unwarrantable expressions, on
repeated occasions, and at long intervals of time.
The jury found a verdicfi for the plaintiff of
4001. as a caution to tliofe whose palfions carry
them beyond the bounds of reason—and to luch
of the rich, 3? conceive they can insult with im
punity the poor.
Same day came on a cause, Kingverfus Stupart,
for a default in not failing beforqthe double pre
mium tiJok place, from'which circumstance the
plaintiff could not recover his insurance, and the
veflel was 1011. Thejury ret*rned a verdid: for
- the plaintiff.
S A L E M, November 9.
A General Peace.
In the North of Europe has followed the trea
ty between the Kings of Prussia and Hungary as
■we are informed by Capt. Richard Derby,
■who arrived here on Saturday, in 60 days from
Gottenburg.—The terms of peace were not par
ticularly known at Gottenburg when he caine
away, but a meflage from his Swedifti MajelVy
purported that the) were honorable and fatisfac
tory to him, beyond his expeditions. The trea
ty was concluded in Finland. His Majesty arti
yed at Stockholm about the firft of September.
The troops at Gottenburg were dilbanded. The
merchants were fending off their veflels as usual
in time of peace.
A ihort time before Capt. Derby failed, n Swed
ish jo gun ship, going from Marftrand to Gotten
burg, fprunga leak, and went down very sudden
ly, by which above 400 lives were loft—about 40
only were saved.
BOSTON, Nov. 9.
COW. BOWDOJN.
If native genius, embelliflied with all tke o
£• _ 1' * • - - -
naments of polite learning—if deep researches
into the nature and principles of philosophy, and
of the arts and sciences in general—it a profound
knowledge of government, and the politics of
his country—if the love and tfteem of his fellow
citizens, aud of the Literati of the world, from
an reputation—ilthe prayers of the poor
and needy, to whom he bellowed, with a silent,
but liberal hand—if the tears of his relation and
houftiold—if the ardent wiflies of his particular
friends, and of all who knew him—if in fine, an
unaffeited piety and religion, added to the most
exemplary morality, from earliest youth, could
have emancipated from the grave any character,
this truly dignified one would have never tailed
Death : But "it is appointed for all men once
to di?."
Philadelphia, Nov. 24.
The President of the United States v/as to
leave Mount Vernon, his feat in Virginia, on Mon
day lail, 011 his return to the feat of government.
On Friday last the Hon. John Langdon, Sen
ator of the United States from New Hampfliire,,
with his lady and daughter, arrived here from
Portsmouth.
011 Saturday arrived in town from Virginia,
The Hon. Thomas Jefferson, Secretary of
State; and the Hon. James Madison, one of the
Representatives in Congrefe from that State.
The Hon. Nicholas Gilman, member of the Houfeof Re
prelentatives of the United States, is alio arrived in town from
Ncw-Hamp(hire,via Newport, R. I {laud.
The life of John El wes is comprized in the following fen
teoce, an exemplification oj the power of avarice.
The ensuing feflion of Congress will be highly
interesting to the United States ; Ihe objedls
which will arrest the attention oi the august na
tional legillature, are of the greatest magnitude.
Altho much has been done—yet much remains to
be effe<fted ; but the general approbation with
which the proceedings of government have been
received—the harmony and good understanding
which pervade the States under its auspices—and
the encreafing advantages which the people re
alize from the laws of the Union, will animate
our civil fathers in the prosecution of their
duty—for the highest testimony of public merit,
is the fuecels of public mealures.
Among many other important fubje<fls of legi
slative deliberation and decision, which will pro-
bably come before Congress, are the eftablifliment
of a national mint, and a national bank
of weights and measures —the pofl-office, and pojl
roads—ways and means to pay the jntereft on that
part of the national debt which was,left unprovi
ded for the last fellion —the organization of the mi
litia—\vith a variety of incidental bufinels, inter
esting to particular states, corporations, and in
dividuals,to which the general government alone
can pay a competent attention.
The citizens of New-York are making themoft
spirited and meritorious exertions to eftablilh a
Public Dispensary in that city—and from all ap
pearances there is no doubt but their humane ef
forts will be crowned with deserved success.
Says a correfponden't, one would suppose, from
tlie accounts publiihed of the lands on the Mifli
fippi', and adjacent to the Natchez, that the veri
table spot where the garden as Eden was situated,
lias at length teen difeovereti : A plairt us Co
bacco when cured, raised in that country, will
" -weigh a pound"—and the produce of the land
is " from 100 to 135 buftiels of corn per acre"—
" battalions of cavalry, artillery and infantry"
are raised there, in a tuonth—merely as a dejen
five and protsftionary guard ; but for off en five ope
rations, the men are as the liars for multitude :
Five hundred families" is a mere handful among
the many millions of emigrants that are daily
, flocking to this land of promise I And as to any
dread of Indians, the thousands of fighting men,
which will be on the ground by Christmas, will
set the tawniesa scouting, from the St. Lawrance
to the Miffifippi—nor will a murdering dog of
them Hop, or look back, till they reach the Paci
fic Ocean ! But after all—a wilderness is a
wilderness—-and if in the cultivated parts of the
UnitedStates,it is the lot of the mass of the people
to get their bread by the sweat of their brow, it
will be found that the curse is not diminiflied,
by encountering nature in her mofl; rugged form
—surrounded by the terrors of the fcalping-knife.
" The navigation of the ancient Romans was
chiefly confined to the Mediterranean.' What
an idea does this convey of thedifFerence between
those conquerors of the world, and the infant em
pire ot these riling States. Our navigators have
long been familiar with the polar* regions of the
South, where they have plowed the ocean in search
of the monftersof the deep—and lately they have
thrown a girdle round the globe in exploring the
extremities of the North. Since the peace, our
cvck-boats, compared to. the fliipt of Britain, have
traversed the southern and ealtern feis, and re
turned iu fafety with the rich produtfts of Alia—
so that a voyage to China is now a more common
enterprize, than one to Great-Britain was, forty
years ago.
" There is no real use in riches, except in
the distribution." Many persons poflefs very
large sums in solid coin, which has not been in
circulation for many years : Such gold may as
well be in the bottom of the sea ; it cannot be
called a misfortune therefore, when the prodigal
heirs ofmifers enter on the enjoyment of their
wealth—for this only distributes that, which was
before a cruel monopoly of the bleflings of pro;
vidence.
LATEST ARRIVALS AT THIS PORT.
Brig Nttu-Succefs, Throckmorton, London and Grenada, 13 wteks.
Sloop Harriot, Kir by, Wilmington, (N. C.J 13 days.
luduftry, Sweting. St. Martins, 21.
Schooner Dart, Jirice, Jamaica, 37.
Sally % How!and, Bedford, 12.
651
Postscript.
BY THE MAIL ARRIVED LAST EVENING
ABSTRACT of foreign intelligence.
PHILADELPHIA, A'w. 24.
THE prcCs torfeaincri continues in moll of the British ports;
and uncertainty rests on the -events of Peace or War with
Spain. Accounts from Gibraltar mention fomc recent encroach
ments upon the neutral ground before that fortrefs.
The Duke of Cumberland, brother to the King of England,d ied
the 18th Sept. after a long illness ; he-was in his 47th year; aod
has left no ifiue.
The eilimate of the loss by the late fire at Madrid, is reported
:o be Five Millions Sterling.
The grand fleet under Lord Howe arrived atSpithcad the 14th
September.
The Emperor of Morocco has declared war againfl Spain.
Another meflengerwas hourly expected from Spain ; matters not
being yet fettled.
The number of killed and wounded on both fides in the late
mutiny in France, is stated to he upwards of 1600.
The Empress of Ruflia, exasperated againftthe Englilh, hat con
cluded a hasty alliance with Sweden, in order, it is said, to hurt
the former, by aiding the Spaniards.
A new league is said to be on the tapis between Rufiit, Spain
and France—as a counterbalance to thcalliancc between England,
Pruflia and Holland.
The Austrian army was on its march to Brabant.
The National Guards of France, alarmed by the inflammatory
publicationt which abound in that country, were on their march
to the frontiers of the kingdom, to prevent any inroads of the Aus
trian*; tho it does not appear that Leopold has any design of
interfering in the affairs of France.
The Austrian army, destined to the low countries, amounted to
49.417 men.
Recent accounts from Germany mud afford some very lntereli
ing particulars refpe&ing the coronation and inauguration of the
Emperor ; the state of affairs in the low countries ; the progress
of liberty in Hungary, and in the heart ot the Empire: for the
last accounts from Vienua state that great unealinefs prevailed in
that city on account of the peace made by the King of Prufiia, be
tween Austria and the Turks ; the people appeared hostile to any
coercive measures being adopted against the Brabanters.
Great Britain has guaranteed the duties of the found, to Den
mark : These duties amount to 200,000!. a year.
The affairs of Hungary are in a eritical filiation, and seriously
menace the tranquility of Europe.
The Englifti papers inform of further naval armaments : A larg;e
fleet is ordtrer 1 to be got ready immediately: Its destination is
conjectured to be the Weft-Indies.
Accounts from Martinico in,form, thrt every thing is in confu-
ClOll at that island : Every vessel which arrives from the States
have guards put on board. Guadaloupe is altaoft deserted ; the
men being gone as volunteers to Martinique.
The celebrated Mi. Bruce, whofetravels into Abyflinla have
lately been published, gives an account ot the sources of the Nile,
which never had been before traced by any traveller, nor was the
world in poflcflion of any fatisfa&ory account of its origin. It
may however be observed, that his diicovcries confirm the conjec
tures of some former travellers, who had supposed that the head of
that famous river, like that of most others, terminated in inconsi
derable springs and rivulets.
DOMESTIC ARTICL ES.
RICHMOND, (Virg.) November 17.
ExtraEl from the Journal of the House of Delegates.
Resolved, That it is the opinion ot this committee, 1 hat an act
of the United States, intitled, " An ad making provfion for the
« debt of the United Statesfo far as the fame pledges the taith of
the United States, and appropriates funds for the payment of cer
tain debts $ue by the several states in the union, will in its opera
tion be highly injurious to those states, which have by persevering
and ftrenuousexertions,redeemed a considerable proportion of the
debt incurred by them* dur.ng the late war, and will particulaily
produce great injury to this state ; because a large portion of the
debt then contra&ed by this Commonwealth, having been alieady.
redeemed by the colle&ion of heavy taxes levied on its citizens,and
measures having been taken for the gradual payment of the balance,
so as to afford the most certain profpe&of extinguiftung the whole
at a period notary distant : the Commonwealth will, by the o
peration of the aforefaid ast, be involved for the payment of debit
contrasted by other states, which either have not paid any part
thereof themselves, or have reduced them but in a small proportion
compared with the payments made by this ftate,by means where
of a heavy debt will be intailed on this state, which never can be
extinguiftied by all its efforts, whilst any part ot the debts con.
traded by any state in the American union, and so aliumed lhali
remain unpaid.
N E W-Y OR K, November 20.
Extra!! of a litter from St. Helena (via London) June 24-
" An American Whaler from the South Seas, bound to Phila
delphia, put in here in diftrefson the/jift inft. having met with a
severe gale in tat. 3«- 6. S. Long. S ° . 7 . E. She has been very
fuccefslul, having igo tons of spermaceti oil. On her pailage lhe
fell in with a velfel tromßotany-Bay bound to London,which was
in diftrcfs for want of provisions. The American would have re
lievcd her wants, but found it impoflible, from the extreme bad
ness of the weather, which prevented the poflibility of a boat be
ing hoisted out ; and they soon after parted with her in a violent
gale. They previously learnt, however, that at the time of her
leaving it the settlement at Botany-Bay was almoftin the last stage
of human distress ; that the officers andfoldiers would not do any
kind of duty, their times being out; that the government intend
ed to embark for England the firft opportnnity, and leave the
convifls to their fate, mod of whom (that had been transported
for life) had petitioned to be sent home and hanged, by the iirit
opporiunity, rather than remain in that wretched country, w er
with their utmost endeavors, they had only yet been able to ra fc
2 o acres of wheat, which had been their whole dependence for
some time past, and a fewfith, but not a luffic.ency for every body.
The felons whose times had expired, were very mutinous for go
ing home, and every body was tick of the expedition.
ANNAPOLIS, November 18.
" Died, in this city, early in the morning of the 16th inft. in
the 67th year of hij age, the honorable Daniel of St. Thoma
Teniver, Esquire, a man so well known and distinguished by
his country, that an culogium on kn cliarafter it altogether unne
ceflary.
WILMINGTON, Nov. 20.
The Hon. John Vi ni no is re-elected a member of the Houfc
of Representatives of the United States, for this State.
PRICE CURRINC. —.-PUBLIC SECURITIES.
6 pr. Cents 14/ P r -£- or
3 pr. Cents 7/3 7/4- or 3<S| j°-
Defered 6 pr. Cents 6/3. 33 1
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and othei Certificates ja/6—12/8. 63} do.
Indent, 7/3 7/4- 3<>t j°-
Stale debts 8/2. 8/3. 4»i d «-
FUNDED DEBT=
ODE,
ON THE FOURTH JULY, 1790.
IN the regions of bliss where the majesty reigns,
Ten thousand bright Seraphim (hone,
Wing'd for flight, they all (land, haips of gold in each hand,
When a voice ilfu'd mild from the throne,
11
Ye pow'rs and dominions, bright guardians of realms
Whose sway Europe's ions have revcr'd ;
Eastern monarchs no more, your aid shall implore,
To the Weil all your cares be transler'd.
hi.
That Vine which from Egypt to Canaan I brought,
With an out-ftrctch'd, omnipotent, arm ;
In America's foil, from Britaniu's bleak isle,
Shall flourifh—and brave ev'ry ftorni.
In vain persecution her wheel shall prepare,
The tyrant his scourge litt on high,
The wheel shall be bioke, the scourge and the yoke.
All (hattered in pieces lhall lie.
*To accomplish my pleasure, a hero I'll raise,
Unrival'd in counsel and might;
Like the prophet of old, wife, patient and bold,
Resistless as JoJlma in fight.
VI.
See the plains of Columbia, with banners o'erfpread,
Harks the roar of the battle's begun,
Like a son of the flues, when proud rebels arise,
He drives the dire hurricane on.
VII.
Him terrors, nor treafonsnor dangers shall daunt,
'Till his country from bondage reftor'd ;
Independent and free, all her greatness fhallfee
Due alone to his conquering sword.
VIII.
When the thunder is o'er, and fair pejce fpreais her wing.
The Chief still refulgent (hall beam,
Frefiding at helm, framing lawtlor the reilm,
Id Peace at in War still supreme.
IX.
Then the bright golden age (hall triumphant return,
Mi/lenium's new paradise bloom ;
Wkile from earth's distant end, their high state to attend,
AH nations withtraufport (hall come.
Hail, America, hail ! the glory of lands!
To theefuch high honours are given !
Thy stars still (hall blaze, 'till the moon veil her rays,
And the fun lose his path-way in Heaven.
AN AUTHENTIC STATEMENT OF
AFFAIRS IN FRANCE,
From the \Ji to the 12th of Sept. 1790.
THE great difficulties undei which the National Aflembly la
bours, seem rather to encreafe its energy than to depress its
coyrage. The last, and one of the mod important parts of the
constitution, is completed ; the chambers oj vacation are no more;
they were the last remnants of the parliaments ; they are replaced
by justices of the peace, diftrift and department judges.
The finances being now the immediate objett of national con
cern, a concise statement has been laid before the houte, by Mr.
Montefquioui member of the committee of finance. This is too
important not to intcreft an American reader.
" Mr. Monteftjuiou carries the actual amount of public contri
butions to 497 millions, which however, will not be fufficient tor
the expenditure : this will require an addition c 55 millions.
" He divides the public debt into two parts; the ancient debt
of the kingdom, and the debt lately contracted by the nation.
" t. As to the ancient debt, ifs reimbursement is not due, as
it consists principally in annuities ; therefore provifiou is only to
be made for the payment of these annuities.
" 2. The debt lately contra&cd is of a different nature,becaufe
the capital is immediately to be paid. This debt comprehends
the afTumption of the debt of the clergy, the reimbursement of
all officers of the ancient parliaments and of finance, anticipations,
debt of the king and queen's houdiold, public loans in Holland
and Genoa, and other loans. All these objetts amount to the
sum of 1900 millions.
" To pay the interest of these 1900 millions it would be neces
sary to raise the public revenue from 497 millions to 521, inde
pendent of the deficit of 55 millions above mentioned, and inde
pendent of the annual expence of public worship now payable by
the nation. To provide for this extraordinary debt, the nation
has acquired a fund of 2400 millions in domains and church
lands, which properly applied are more than fufficient to latisfy
its creditors, or rather to pay the expence of this great revolution.
14 The committee submits to the wisdom of the AiTembly three
different ways to complete this payment :
" 1. By certificates bearing an interest. 5 per cent, to be re
ceived in payment for domain and church land.
44 2. By ciffignats upon the said land, bearing no interest.
44 3. By delivering certificates for half the fuin due, and aflig
nats for the other half."
This plan presented towards the end of August, was strongly
supported by Mr. Mirabcau> who insisted upon the immediate
ernillion of aooo millions of aflignats, receivable ir. all payments,
as they a&ually represented the domain and church land. Th»s
measure, said he, would effectually convert the enemies of the
constitution, as by the cmiflion of so large a sum their fortune
would undoubtedly depend on the support of the national decrees.
>—The AiTembly having adjourned this important question to the
17th of September, the public have had time to consider it with
attention. Mr. Mirabeau's opinion has been adopted by the
Chamber of Commerce of Bourdeaux, who addressed the nation
al AiTembly on the fubjeft.—Many adversaries appear on the other
fide, amongst whom Mr. Ncckcr is the most eminent, (hewing,
in a pSrticular memoir to the Aflembly» how much commerce,
agriculture and administration would be injured by this immense
cmiflion of paper-money. Mr. Dupont supports the fame opin
ion in a pamphlet, and the city of Rouen in anaddrefs to the Na
tional AiTembly. The latter propofesthe firft alternative of the
committee as the most eligible, viz. to pay in certificates, bearing
an interest of 5 perccnt.
Mr. Necker's reasons against the emiflion of 2000 millions of af
fignats are indeed strong and weighty ; but it may be asked wha*
right this roinifter had to interfere in the deliberations of the Le
gislature ? Besides, Mr. Necker only disapproves the plan, but he
does not propose a better one. Bourdcaux and Rouen have open
ly declared themselves for and against the emi(lion of afligtiats ; the
public are almost equally divided, and the decision of the AfTem
bly, whofedebatesonthe fubje£t are to begin the 17th,uncertain.
The enormous debt of 1900 millions, incurred by the AfTem
bly, will not appear so exorbitant, when we consider that com
mon juflice required that the nation (hould aflume the debt of the
«lcrgy and royal family, provide lor the (übfiftence of bilhops and
monks, refund the capital formerly paid for judiciary and finance
offices, and make up the lolTes of the royal treasury fuft'ained by
the irregularity of contributions. Wc have seen that the means to
provide for thefeobjetts will be easy, but the mast eligible mode
_ J
must be left to the wifdoro and enquiry of tbe Niuonal Atftui
b, 'fhe moderation and circumfpcdlion of this great
been lately evidenced in the delicate ijueftion o ■■
Avi-non. Mr. Trouchet,making a report on this luDjett, oblcivca
thdt°the Pope bcin« in pofleffion of Avignon fincc: 1348, h
rights were as refpcftable as any rights of property ~ that: the a
tiztrls of a particular diftria had not the faculty of gwg
selves to another power without the coufent o re w
nity to which they belong; that therefore Av.gnon could nobe
accepted bV France, unless all the States of the d collcc
tively consented to .his surrender, and that ever. ... that cafe the
negotiations (hould originate between the A.ng and Pope and
not between the Aflembly of France and the people «f Avignon.
The majority of the Aflembly feemeo to approve this repot t, but
deferred the ultimate dccif.on to another day.
M de U Tour clu. Pin, tninifterof the war department, has in
formed the Aflembly, that altho' the king had not the least fu -
picion with relpeft to the intentions of the King of Hungary, it.)
the great bodies of troops marching towards Brabant tendered it
necessary to quiet the minds of the people on the frontiers, by re
inforcing them with reeiments. This letter was .efcrred
to the military committee. The armaments at Bred, Rocheiott
1 and Toulon, are carried on with ihe greatest dispatch.
According to a decree of the National Aflembly, all parlia
mentary functions of ihf chambers of vacation were to ceale the
■joth of Sept. in the jyjjvinces, and the isth October at Parts.
About that time the juices and a.ttrift judges -wcrc to be
chosen by the fame electors who have the appointment of diftnfl
aflemblies. The fame electors were hkewlfe to cleft bishops and
curates. Thus we have seen, in the course of one year, a com
plete regeneration of an irnraenfe empire ; twelve large provin
ces divided into 85 departments, each department into diftrifts,
each diftria into parishes; a progreflive representation from the
smallest village to the whole empire ; a large body of nobles le
velled with the citizens ; some hundred thousand monks reltored
to the community ; hereditary judges replaced by ele£ted justices;
the road to honor and preferments opened to all ranks, to all reli
gions ; a domineering soldiery taught to obey the civil magistrate.
Whatever may be the defedls of individual members of the Na
tional Aflembly, we are at a loss to find in history a body of men,
who have displayed more courage, more firmnefs, more wisdom,
and who in a shorter fpaceof time have done greater things than
the Aflembly of I ranee.
Candour oblige* us to fay, however, that notwithstanding the
great prefeverance and afliduity of the national Aflembly, the
country is far trom being in a state of tranquillity* The enemies
of liberty are too numerous and too daring not to excite commo
tions, which though diftrefling for the immediate futferers, are far
from being prejudicial to that system which they wish to destroy.
From the beginning of the revolution to this day, every attempt of
the opposite party has been not only unfuccesful but ruinous for
them. While we deploie their blindness, we sincerely wish that
they may not wound the feelings of a patriotic and virtuous King,
b/ their pretended counter-revolution; luch an attempt would
4 *uin foi ever an ancient and yefpeftable nobility, which is still dear
to their country, tho' they are deprived of the empty iound of ti
tles, which like the names of Peter and John, have of late seldom
conveyed a higher opinion of the man to the ear ot a Frenchman.
Families are and will be always refpe&ed, if, by an imprudent ex
ertion, they do not forfeit the affection of their countrymen. We
acknowledge that they may bring on a civil war, a war which must
annihilate tnem, but we deny the practicability of a counter revo
lution. Separate attempts indeed are made in several parts of the
kingdom, but they always terminate in the deftruftion of the ring
leaders. The mod remarkable is the late commotion of Nancy,
where the Swiss regiment of Chateauvieux milled by falfe mfinu
ations, had taken arms against the commander, Marquis de Bouille,
a man distinguished by his conduct in the Weft-Indies,during the
late war. Supported by iome citizens, the rebellious regiment
actually attempted to defend the city against the approaching mi
litia, commanded by M. dc Bouille, who had given previous notice
of his expedition to the National Assembly. The militia having
forced one of the gates, a great slaughter ensued, in which about
300 men were killed on both fides : but M. dc Bouille proving ul
timately vi&orious, the prisoners were committed to a court mar
tial of their countrymen [the Swiss} who condemned every fe
; venth man to be hanged, and 64 of the reft to the galleys. During
the confli&an officer of the Kings regiment, perceiving that the
Swiss intended to fire a cannon on the militia, placed hirnfelf be
fore the mouth of the cannon, devoting himfelftoa gloriousdeath
to save his fellow citizen?. The conduct of Mr. Bouille, was high
ly approved of by the King and Aflembly; but the difafi'efted
party embraced with eagern.fs this opportunity to misrepresent
the conduct of the gene ral and ministers; they inflamed the peo
ple of Paris to such a degree as to render it neceflary for Mr. De
la Fayette to reinforce the guards of the National Aflembly and ot
the Ministers; it was (aid that the militia and the regiment had
been wantonly facrificcd to the fecrel views of M. dc Bouille, who
after having butchered those who were evidently attatched to the
constitution, would find it very easy afterwards to bringon a coun
ter revolution. Afperfionjs of this kind,however,have a momentary
efleft at Paris, and the commotions which they excite have folittle
influence in the Aflembly, that whilst the mob aflailed the house,
they continued the whole day to deliberate coolly on the ceflion
of Avignon. Nothing has yet been able to break the undaunted
spirit of that patriotic body. Smaller commotions of regiments
at Lisle, and in other places, hardly deserve to be mentioned, hav
ing been flopped immediately by the new created power of the
civil inagiftrate : A power which is daily ftrcngthened by the
fruitlefs struggles of a soldiery, unaccustomed to the controulof
civil law.
The King having been at St. Cloud about fix weeks, it can be
110 more aflerted by the enemies of the constitution, that his ac
tions are not free. He continues to co-operate with the National
Afleiubly in the raoft eflential points of their proceedings; for
their decrees can not be executed but under his authority. In his
name M. de Montmorin has informed the Aflembly, that every
necessary measure has been taken to support the family compact with
Spain, and that the Ambaflador at Madrid has received in
ftru6lions to renew thr; trertv under the name of a national compad.
Thus in the earliest pe»)jd of the French regeneration, the future
political connexions ot the kingdom will be defined, and the edi
fice gradually completed in all its parts.
By way of contrail to thefc great concerns of the nation, we
can not forbear mentioning the voluminous memorial lately pre
sented by threle&orof Triers to the States of the German Empire.
He com plains of thedecree, which by rendering the French church
entirely independent of foreign controul, deprives him of his cc
clefiaftical jurifdi&ionover Merit*, Toul, Verdun, Nanci,St. Deiz,
the Dutchy of Lorrain, and part of Luxembourg. His highness
claims the protection and afliftance of the empire against these
dangerous encroachments on his authority. If, in consequence of
his claims, thcjacrcd empire fends into France an army similar to
that which has lately attacked the Liegeois, we (hall remember the
cxpreflion of Mr. Mirabeau : •' We hope that the Germans will
not oblige us to bury some thousands of their soldiers upon our
frontiers."
The Pope continues his ncgociations with refpeft to Avignon,
and from the disposition of the National Aflembly, it is difficult
to fay what will be the result.
The declining health of Mr. Necker has at last induced him to
depart, but being unable to fettle li s accounts he left that bufiuefs
to M. Dufrefney and let out with his lady, about the 9th of Sept.
He was flopped by the militia of Arey, a small town in Champam,
who refufed to let him proceed without leave from the National
Aflembly. Mr. Necker wrote in consequence to the Aflembly,
who, alter some debate, ordered the municipality of Arey to fuf
652
fir him to iepwt. It mull be coufclUd that notw.tl.ftanding the
crea't talents, intcg.ity and perseverance ot this great man, he w is
deficient piudence, by ii.terpofinj his authority in matters that
did not belong to his province. Byfuppouing the rights of the
Nobles againit the ooimou of the Xing » Council, he 101 l the la
vor of the people without acquiring the triendlhip and .good wth
of the nobles, who conltder him as the principal author of the re
volution Too often he pvefumed to give his advice when it was
not ailtcd, and, by his oppofmg the torrent of public opinion, he
injured his health and popularity. Ill* to be wiihed, however,
that Mi Necker, may loon be able to relume his bufiuefs, audio
endear himfclt to ius fellow-citizens by new exertions ot patno-
We cannot better conclude this short statement of the affairs in
France, than by mentioning the new tribute paid to the memory
oi a man, who, as a itatefman, as a ph.lofopher, but particularly as
an American, has for ever gained the applause and esteem of
the French natidn. The Academy lias decreed the highest pre
mium for the next year, on an encomium of Dr.FRANKLiN.
Thus the legiflaiure, the people, and the lanftuary of letter., have
combined to contribute to the iromo'tality of Franklin, bccaufc
joined to all his superior qualifications, he had the particular ad
vantage of being a distinguished citizen of the United States.
FROM THE NEW-YORK DAILY GAZETTE.
OBSERVATIONS, designed for the benefit of
those who barrel PORK ; which being the re
sult of experience, may certainly be depended
on> A Merchant.
IT is well known that Irish provisions have been, and frill are
generally used throughout Europe : The quality is a good re
commendation, and the mode of preserving them contributes, in
no small degree, to their value; yet there is another point in which
they difFer from the fait provisions of almost every other country,
simple in itfelf, yet extremely ufcful, as it saves labor in thediftri
bution, and of course gives it the preference to those who have the
power of approving 01* dilcountenancing it. I mean, that they
are cut in pieces of a proper size to suit a small mets, both of a na
vy or army. If American Pork, of the firft quality (a cask of which
inthisftate, must now weigh 2001b5.) was manuta&ured in the
fame manner, viz. fifty pieces of about four pounds each in
barrel, it would command not only a ready sale at foreign mar
kets, but it vyouVd alio produce a better price ; and as this mode
of curing it can be attended with 110 poflible injury at any market,
it isearneftly recommended to all dealers in Pork, that they will
begin and promote a system which, ifpradlifed, mull tend to their
)wn emolument, and the good of their country.
New-York, 13, Nov. 1790.
John Francis,
Late of N£w-York, refpe&fully informs the public, that he
Commodious Boarding
No. 53. Fourth-Street, one door from Race-Street,
WHERE Gentlemen may be accommodated with
GEKTEEL BOARDING AND LODGING,
By the lleek, Month, or Year, and on the mod moderate terms.
Phila. Nov. 20, 1790 [2aw.3m._J
INTELLIGENCE-OFFICE,
No. 2cß, in Market, above 6th Street, Saith Jidc,
WI L L be negociated all kinds of PAPER
MONEY and
Public Securities,
BUSINESS tranfa&ed in public offices in the
city, and such Paper-Money and Certificates furnifhed, as will
make payment at the Land Office equal to Gold and Silver.
MONEY borrowed or loaned, and BILLS,
BONDS, and NOTES of HAND difcountea.
HOUSES, Farms, Lands, and Lots, bought
and fold, let or leafed, and Houses, Rooms, Boarding and Lodg
ing procured for Strangers, or others.
BOOK-KEEPERS, Clerks, School-Matters,
Waiters, Nurses, SeauiftrefTes, Chamber and other Maids, and
thofc of other profeffions, who come well recommended, may
hear of employ ; and Employers be supplied, bv applying to
FRANCIS WHITE.
Dealer in Paper Money, and Public Securities*
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,!
Otiober 14,1790. J
NOTICE is hereby given, That Profiofa/s -will be received at
the Office of the Secretary of the Treasury, to the 30th day
of November next, inrlufive, for the, fuppiy of all Rations which
may be required for the use of the United States, from tlie firß day
of January to the thirty-iirft day of December 1791, both days in
cluiive, at Springfield, in the State ofMallachufetts, aud the Poftof
Wefl-Point, in the State of New-York.
The Rations to be supplied, are to consist of the following Arti
cles, viz. One pound of Bread or Flour,
One pound ef Beef, or J of a pound of Pork,
Half a jill of Rum, Brandy, or Whisky,
One quart of Salt, }
Two ouarts of Vinegar, f
, cc > pr. 100 rations,
1 wo pounds or Soap, ( r
One pound of Candles, j
Separate Piopofals may be made for each piace, fpecifying tufi
lowest price pr. ration. No credit is required.
Improvements and Additions to Mr. Bowen's
Exhibition of Wax-Work,
HIS Excellency Benjamin Franklin, Esq. A Philadelphian
Beauty. Peace, (an elegant figure) with her Olive Branch.
Plenty, with wreathsof Flowers, baflcet of Fruit, Bcc.
TICKETS, atone quarter dollar, mav be had at M'
James Bkyson's, No. 4, Third, below Market Street ; where the
exhibition is open from 10 o'clock in the Morrfing, until 9 every Evening..
N. B. MINIATURE and PORTRAIT PAINTING
done at the fame place, on rcafonable terms.
Philadelphia, Oft. 30, 1790.
IO" SUBSCRIBERS in the City and State of
New-York—and to the Eajlward as far as B oft on,
will pie ast to pay their arrearages to Mr. P. Wetniore,
at the Pofl-Ojfici, New-York—who will also receive
fubfer'tptions jor the Gazette.
The price of this paper is 3 dolls, pr. an*. and sd. jingle nunicrt
has opeued a
House,
At the