PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, AIARKE T.STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 59, of Vol. ll.]
Discourses on Davila.
No. XXIJI. — CONTINUED
Utiumque regcm, fua mulcitudo conlalutaverat,
THE Queen informed of this union, thought
hejfelf deprived of herfirmeft fuuport, and
dreaded, that the Princes of Lorrain, fupporred
by the credit of the Constable, and difcoutented
with her, might attempt to take from her the re
gency. She thought it necefl'ary therefore, to
connecft herfelf more ftricftly with the King of
Navarre, to counter balance this new party. She
directed all her cares to maintain that equilibri
um, which affined her power and that of her foil.
She entered into all the views of the King of Na
varre, in favor of the Hugonots. Under the pre
text of maintaining peace (luring the minority
of the King, and of conciliating the hearts of the
people, by a reputation of clemency, (he publish
ed new declarations, which enjoined upon all
the parliaments and all the other magistrates of
each province, to molest 110 man on account of
religion ; toreftore the goods, lioufes and poflef
fionsto all thole, who, in times pafled, had been
deprived of them, on suspicion of Heresy. The
parliament of Paris, and some other magistrates
refufed to comply : but the Hugonots, thinking
themselves authorized by the will and orders of
the King, ofthe regent, and the difpolitions of
the council,aflumed to themselves, as they had a
better right to do from God and nature, a liberty
of conscience, and their numbers and forces aug
mented from day to day. This was to fulfil the
views of the Queen, if these religionists had
known how to restrain themselves, within the
bounds of moderation and reason. But as it
commonly happens to people, who fuffer them
selves to be transported by their paflions, and
will not conform to the restraints of authority :
asfoon as they fdt themselves tolerated, protect
ed, and delivered from the fear of puniftimenr,
their resentments of former ill usage arose, they
loft the relpeft due to the magiltrates, and some
times by public aflemblies, and sometimes by in
jurious discourses, or other violent proceedings,
they drew upon themselves the hatred and indig
nation of the Catholicks. Hence arose obstinate
disputes, which throwing the two parties into
quarrels, spread tumult and infurrecftions thro
all the provinces of the kingdom. Thus, con
trary to the intentions of government, and the
expectations of rhe public, the remedy employed
to save the state and maintain peace, became, at
least as our Historian rcprefenK, contagious and
prejudicial: and occasioned precisely those trou
bles and dangers, Which they fought so carcfully
to prevent.
The Guises, we may be sure were not at all
mortified at this turn of affairs. It was precisely
what they wiflied. Encouraged; and fortified by
their union with the Constable, they seized this
occasion to oppose the Queen and the King of
Navarre. The Cardinal of Lorrain, finding the
moment favorable to explain himfelf in council,
without regard to the Queen or the King of Na
varre, who were present : began to speak on the
state of religion, and to represent, with all the
vehemence of his character, that it was to betray
religion, and to dilhonor themselves in the eyes
of the whole earth, to grant, in a most christian
kingdom, liberty of conscience, to innovators al
ready condemned by councils and the voice of
the church. That not fatisfied with difleminat
ing monstrous opinions, with corrupting the ris
ing generation, and imposing on the simplicity
ofthe weak, they blew up the fire of rebellion in
all the provinces of the kingdom. That already
the insolence and outrages of these Heretics, hin
dered the niinifters of the church from celebrat
ing mass, and from appearing in their pulpits,
and left to the magistrates scarce afhadow of au
thority ; thatevery thing was aprey to the sword
and flames, by the imprudence and obstinacy of
those who arrogated to themselves the licence of
believing and teaching at their pleafute ; that
the firft kingdom of Christendom was upon the
point of making a fchifin, of fhakingofFthe yoke
of obedience due to the holy fee, and of aban
doning the Catholic faith, to fatisfy the caprice
of an handful of seditious men. The Cardinal,
enforced these arguments with so much energy,
with that confidence and natural eloquence which
wave liim such an ascendancy, even in the most
problematical opinions, that the protectors of
the Hugonots opposed nothing to him but silence.
The Kingof Navarre and the Queen replied not
Saturday, November 20, 1790.
1 a word, and even the Chancellor appeared amaz
ed and confounded. The counsellors of Itate,
irritated againlt the Hugonots, were of opinion
to aflemble immediately all the Princes and of
ficers of the crown, to the parliament of Paris,
there to treat on this fubjetii, in the presence of
the King, and determine the means of curing
these dilbrders. This aflembly was accordingly
held on the 13th of July, 1561, in parliament.
The King of Navarre dared not alone to make
opposition openly ; this would have been to de
clare himfelf a Calvinift. The Queen indeed, de
sired that the Catholic party Ihould not prevail ;
but she was not the less apprehensive that they
would impute to her the establishment and pro
gress of Heresy. The Cornells in parliament
were however, animated: the partizans of the
Hugonots, forgot motliing to procure them liber
ty of conscience, as the only means proper to ap
pease all troubles, and heal all divisions. Their
efforts were useless. There was some reason for
faying, that liberty of conscience was evidently
opposed to the spirit and authority of the Catho
lic church ; but none at all for pretending that
it was contrary to the fundamental laws of the
kingdom.
It was decided that the Calviniftical preachers
and ministers should fee chafed out ot the king
dom : and that they fliould conform in the pub
lic worship, only to the customs and ceremonies
Authorized by the Roman church. All aflemblies,
of every kind and in everyplace, with arms or
without, except in the Catholic churches, there
to hear divine service, according to their usages,
were forbidden. To grant, however, some miti
gation to the Hugonots, they added in the fame
Edict, that the cognizance of the crime of Here
sy, should be reserved to Bilhops and their grand
Vicars: and if they had recourse to the secular
arm, they could not condemn the guilty, but to
banifament : finally, they gave a general amnes
ty for all disorders committed in times pafled, on
account of religion. A declaration was drawn,
signed by the King, the Queen, and all the Princ
es and lords of parties. (To be continued.)
From WEBSTER'S DISSERTATIONS en the ENGLISH LAN-
Of MODERN CORRUPTIONS in the ENGLISH
PRONUNCIATION.
(CONTINUED.)
BUT it will be replied, Custom is the legijlator 0/ language, and
custom authorizes the practice I am reprobating. A man
can hardly offer a reason, drawn from the principles of analogy
and harmony in a language, but he is instantly lilenced with the
dccifive, jus et norma loquendi *
What then is Custom ? Some writer has already answered this
question ; Custom is the plague of wife men and tne idol of
lools." This was probably said of those quftoms and falhions
which are capricious and varying ; for there are many cuiloms,
founded on propriety, which are perman' nt and conftitu'e laws.
But what kind of custom did Horace delien to lay down as the
standard of speaking ? Was it a local cuft'iin ? Then the neoio of
New-England ; the oncet and twicet of Penniylvania and Mary
land ; and the keind and Jkey of the London theatres, form rules
of speaking. Is it the practice of a court, or a few eminent schol
ars and orators, that he designed to conftitulc a standard ? But
who ffiall determine what body of men forms this uncontrolahle
legiflaturc ? Or who fball reconcile the differences at court ? For
these eminent orators often disagree. There arc numbers of words
in which the moll eminent men differ: Can all be right ? Or
what, in this cafe, is thccuflom which is to be our guide ?
Befidestjiefe difficulties, what right have a few men, however
elevated their station, to change a national pra&ice ? They may
fay, that they consult their own ears, and endeavor to pleale" them
selves. This is their only apology, unless they can prove that
the changes they make are real improvements. But what im
provement is there in changing the founds of three or four letters
into others, and thus multiplying anomalies, and encreaGng the
difficulty of learning a language ? Will not the great body of the
people claim the privilege of adhering to their ancient usages, and
believing their prafticeto be most correct ? They most undoubt
edly will.
If Horace's maxim is ever just, it is only when custom is na
tional ; when the practice of a nation is uniform or general. In
this cafe it becomes the common law of the land, and no one will
dispute its propriety. But has any man a right to deviate from
this pra&ice, and attempt to eftablifb a fingutar mode of his own 2
Have two or three eminent stage players authority to make chang
es at pleafurc, and palm their novelties upon a nation under the
idea of custom? The reader will pardon me for tranferibing here
the opinion of the celebrated Michaelis, one of the most learned
philologers of the present century. "It is not," favs he, " lor a
scholar (o give laws nor prolcribe established expressions : If he
takes so much on himfelf he is ridiculed, and deftrvedlv; it is no
more than a just martificatior. to his ambition, and the penally of
his usurping on the rights of the people. Language is a demo
cratical state, where all the learning in the world docs not war
rant a citizen to supersede a received custom, till he convinced
the whole nation that this custom is a miftike. Scholars are not
so infallible that every thing is to be referred to them. Were
they allowed a dectfory power, the errors of language, I am sure,
instead of diminishing, would be continually increasing. Learned
heads teem with them no ltfs than the vulgar; and thj former
are much more imperious, that we (hould be compelled to defer
to their innovations and implicitly to receive every falfe opinian
1 of theirs."f
645
GUAGE
[Whole No. 165.]
Yrc this right is often assumed by individuals, who dittate to a
nation the rules of Ipeaking, with the fame impcrioulnefs as a ty
rant gives laws to his vaiTals : And, flrange as it may appear, cveu
well bred people and scholars, often surrender their right of pri
vate judgment to these literary governors. The ipfc dixit of u
JohnJon, a Garrick, or a Sheridan, has the force of law ; and to
contraditt it, is rebellion. A(k the moll of our learned men, how
they would pronouncc a word or compose a sentence, and thev
will immediately appeal to some favorite author whose decifiort
is final. Thus distinguished eminence in a writer often becomes
a pafTportfor innumerable errors.
The whole evil originates in a fallacy. It is often supposed
that certain great men are infallible, or that their pradtice confli-
I tutes custom and the rule of propriety. But on the contrary, any
man, however learned, is liable to mistake ; the most learned,
as Michaelis obferves,often teem with errors, and not unfrecpiently
become attached to particular fyflems, and imperious in forcing
them upon the world.| It is not the particular whim of such
men, that constitutes cujlom ; but the common pra&ice of a nation,
which is conformed to their general ideas of propriety. The pro
nunciation of keoiVj keind, drap, juty, natjhur, &c. are neither
right nor wrong, because they are approved or cenfurcd by par
ticular men ; nor because one is local in New-England, another
in the middle States, and the others are supported by »he couit
and stage in London. They are wrong, because they are opposed
to national prattice ; they are wrong, because they are arbitrary
or careless changes of the true founds of our letters ; they are
wrong, because they break in upon the regular conftru£lion of
the language ; they are wrong, because they render the pronunci
ation difficult both for natives and foreigners ; they are wrong,
because they make an invidious diftin£lion between the polite and
common pronunciation, or else oblige a nation to change their ge
neral cultoins, without presenting to their view one national ad
vantage. These arc important, they are permanentconfiderations;
they are superior to the caprices of courts and theatres ; they are
ieafons that are interwoven in the very ftru&ure of the language,
or founded on the common law of the nation ; and they are a liv
ing satire upon the licent : oufnefs of modern fpcakers, who dare to
flight their authority.
But let us examine whether the pra&ice I am censuring is ge
neral or not; for if not, it cannot come within Horace's rule. If
we may believe well informed gentlemen, it is not general even
in Great-Britain. I have been personally informed, and by gen
tlemen of education and abilities, one of whom was particular
in his observation, that it is not general, even among the most
eminent literary charatters in London. It is less frequent in the
interior counties, where the inhabitants still speak as the common
people do in this country. And Kenikk fpcaks of it as an atTc6f
ation in the metropolis which ought to be difcounienanced,
(To be continued.)
* " Quern penes arbitrium ejl, et jus et norma loquendiHorace.
" Nothing" fays Kenrick, " has contributed more to the adul
'ration of Living languages, Man the two extenjive acceptation oj tier
ce's rule in favor oj cujlom. Cujlom is undoubtedly the rule of present
iraflice ; but the r e would be no end in following the variations daily
ntroduced by caprice. Alterations may sometimes be vfejul—maybe ne
ejfary ; but they Jhould be made in a manner conform me to the genius
ind conjirutlion of the language. Modus ejl in rebus. Extremes in
'his, as in all other cases, are hurtful. We ought byno means to shut
Ihe dm ogainfl the improvements of our language ; bat it were well
that fame criterion were efiablifhed to diflinguifh between improvement
and innovation." Rket. Gram, page 6, Ditl.
t See a learned " Dijjertation on the influence of opinions on lan
guage and of language on opinions, which gained the prize of the Pruj
[urn Royal Academy in 1758. By Mr. Michaelis, court counfeJlor i
his Britanic MajeJly, and direßor of the Royal Society ofGouingen
J The vulvar thus by imitation err,
As oft the learn 1 d by beingfngular.
So much they scorn the cioud, that if the throng y
By chance go right, they purpofcly go wrong.
LITERATURE
FLOURISHES in the United States. As one
instance we mention the patronage given to the
American press. Thenew publications multiply
fact. Besides original productions, many tranl
atliintic works have been reprinted. The Bible
in 121110. has lately been published in Philadel
phia by Mr. Young—in which city, and in New-
York, two or three other editions of this valuable
book, are now in|the press—and Mr. Thomas—
(whom an ingenious southern writer has called
the American Bafkcrville, and from whose press
have iflued many large and valuable books) —is
now engaged in printing two editions of the Bible ;
one the large Royal Quarto BIBLE ; the other a
large Folio, with 50 copperplates—A patriotic,
laudable and heavy undertaking, deserving the
patronage and encouragement of every friend to
his country, the sciences, and religion. Mr.
Dobson, of Philadelphia, is also publishing an
" American Edition of the ENCYCLOPEDIA or
Ditfionary of Arts, Sciences, and Miscella
neous Literature."—Two volumes of this
work are already finifhed— it will comprise 16
volumes. (Columbian Centintl.)
HUMANE SOCIETY.
At a wetting of the Truflees of the Humane society,
held at Boston, November ifl, 179 0 '
VOTED,
THAT the thanks of the Truflees of the Hu
mane Society, be returned to Mr. Goffe, for hts
humane and generous cojiduift in receiving the
body of Mr. Z>afM,lately'drowned, v/hen thisadt
of kindness was denied him at his own lodgings ;
and that Mr. Gokfb be presented with the
highest premium which the Conitituuon of the
laid Society will permit them to give.
Jtteft, JOHN AVERY, J«»r t Record Setr'y.
tit&o
Po? EADDRESS
To his Excellency Governor PATEJISOX.
S I R,
AMIDST the numerous addrefles which have been presented
since your laic appointment, the Bar of New-Jersey beg leave
to solicit your attention. As" friends and as brothers we address
you; and if, in this testimonial of refpettand veneration tor your
chara&er, we should depart from the usual stile of congratulation,
we hope the feelings which occasion the departure, will plead our
apology. The profeflion 111 which we labour is of lo dclicate a
nature, that to preserve the chara&erof a gentleman with tellow
pra&itioners and deserve the noble appellation of an honed man
with the reft of mankind, requires a propriety of condutt which
can be claimed by few, but which ought to be aimed at by all.
Perhaps no man ever pra6lifed at the bar, who so fully arrived ai
this desirable point as yourfelf ; and whilst you afford an eminent
example of moral rectitude and enlightened understanding, you re
pel the illiberal idea that ftiicl virtue is incompatible with the
practice of the forum. Since the interest of the state calls the ex
crcife oJ your abilities from the bar, we look forward with plea
lure to that equal diftributicm of justice, which mull be the conse
quence of your judgment and experience, when you preside as
chancellor, of the state. In this point of view, fir, you are not loft
to the profeflion ; and as citizens, we enjoy the profpefl ot every
benefit which can result from an efficient and guarded administra
tion. As no one can better uuderftand the interest? of the com
munity, your own benevolence and the general affe&ion for your
person, will conspire to accomplilh oui political harmony, which
will at once give us weight in the national government, and influ
ence the prosperity of the union. That your constant and fuccefs
ful exertions in your late public character, should meet with the
utmost gratitude this state could display, ought to have been ex
pc&ed—but very few official appointments have, like your own,
combined all ranks of people in one common bond of affection.
Under vour auspices, fir, we are become a band of brothers ;
every whifperof suspicion will be baqifhed : and whilst we, as a
pi oleftion, bid adieu to your Excellency, as the most diltinguifh
ed member of it, wc, at the fame time, embrace you as the ruler
of a free enlightened people. That the cares of office may set
lightly on your brow, is <»ur fmcereft wifti—Be firm ! —lor Hea
ven smiles on conscious re&itude : And long may you live to go
vern our interests and our hearts.
At the reque/l and in behalf of the Bar of New-J erfev
JOSEPH BLOOMFIELD, Attorney-General
November 13, 1790.
GENTLEMEN,
YOUR address affects mc in a most sensible manner : It flows
from the heart : It comes from friends and from brothers :
—I receive it as such ; and asfuch, I feel it. The testimonial you
present in favor of my private profeflion and public character, is
exprelTcd in the most obliging terms. In return, be plea fed to
accept the warm efFufions of a grateful heart : To live in your al
fe£tion and esteem is qiy fervent wish, and (tall be my continual
itudv. To etfeft this desirable end, my cares and efforts {hall be
directed to promote the freedom and happiness of the good peo
ple of this ftatr, to advance our national prosperity ; and to those
numerous and diverfified objects, which result from the admini
stration of a free government, it is the full purpose of my foul to
a£t with firmnefs, uniformity and iec-ifion ; to make general prin
ciples, and not expedients, the constitution and law
of the land, and not the politics of the moment, the rule of my
conduct. While thus I ast, conscious re&itude will smooth the
brow of carc, and adminiftcr consolation and lupport in the most
difficult and trying (late of things.
Candor, liberality of sentiment, and moral re&itude, have, I
well know, been always held in high estimation by the advocates
of this state : These, indeed, are virtues ufeful and ornamental in
every profeflion, and in none more so than that of the law : May
they ever decorate the Bar of New-Jersey ! The profefTors of the
law, have diflinguifhed themselves in behalf of the violated rights
of mankind; have been eminently ufeful in the late revolution,
and in the formation and eftablifhcd of our national government.
In this point of view, they are dear to eveiy friend of freedom ;
and it is not without a degree of profeilional pride, that I behold
that long lift of juridical names, which illumine and adorn the pa
triot roll of America.
In the administration of public affairs, it is a pleating and ani
mating circumstance, that in every measure which will conduce
to the general interell of the state, or of the union at large, the ex
ecutive can confidently rely upon the aid and cordial co-operation
of the gentlemen of the law. But notwithftandiag these encou
raging afTuranccs, it is not without much diffidence and anxiety,
that I enter upon the execution of the important trust committed
to my care. The scene is new—the task is arduous. Alas !—
gentlemen—l fear—that I shall often regret my acceptance of the
honorable officejwhich I now occupy—and wifli—that I had con
tinued with you a fellow-prattitioner at the Bar. There I form
ed my friendfhips—there I pasTed the prime ot my life, and ex
pc£ted to pass the evening of my days : There—l have often seen
and experienced your candour and politeness—your generosity of
i'eutiment and elevation ot foul. Memory will frequently
to my view those social hours, in which we lived as brothers, and
in which we mingled the " feaft of reaion and the flow of foul
—hours, which I shall muse upon with pleasing melancholy ! and
fwceteft luxury of thought !
Go, geinlemen, and be happy— 30. and flill continue to exer
cise those virtues and talents, the display of which has rendered you
conspicuous, and merited the esteem and confidence of vour fellow
citizens :—go, and may you long live an ornament to'the profef
fion in which you labour, ana a blefling to the society in which
you live. WILLIAM PATERSOX.
LONDON, Sept. 2.
IN the year I 762, when success attended the Bri
tifli arms in exery quarter of tine globe, this
country derived near ten millions sterling of spe
cie from the different captures made by the fleet
and army. Such an influx of wealth, invigorated
commerce and encouraged indultry, while it rai
led the fpiric of the nation to a pitch of enthufi
afin, that rendered our men invincible again ft
any superiority of numbers.
Tuesday a meeting of the privy conncil was
held at the cockpit, futnmoned forthepurpofeof
taking into consideration a report of Sir Joseph
Banks, on the general question of admitting
wheat, the produce of the United States of Ame
rica, detained at the ports of Liverpool, &c.
It was not fuflicient for the French to be free,
but they mult l>e forward ; " they would not be
good, but they mud be too good."—Having ob
tained all the liberty a nation (hould wish or want,
they pervert the very fir It powers of it, by the
annihilation of rank and title, to the very ruin
and deftrudlion of honour, the great aflertor of
freedom, and the very thing which emancipated
that kingdom ; for now, since it is uijiverlally al
lowed that
" Order i> Heaven's tirft law ; and llus wJiifcb'd.
Some aip and must be grcatei llu>" the felt , .
Flattery will bow its head to money and to office ;
Placemen and monicd men will bear ail tic «") >
and the great badge of superiority, h 0111' ie * K . e .
forth will not be ingenious merit, but diJatoria ■
power. . . c
Sept. 14. The Spanifti AmbaUador, it is ai
fcrted, is in hourly expeiftation of receiving 1-
patches, wkich were to determine whether he is
to abide longer with us, or bid adieu to acountiy
which, from long residence, and habit of jntima
cy with moit of our nobility and gentiy, lie is
particularly attached to. His excellency lias
been heard more than once to declare to his
friends, during the present dispute, that he
ed lie (hould not be under the painful necelnty
ofleaving them dire<ftly.
The lall letters from Spain contradict the ac
counts of the emperor of Morocco's aflaffination
—though his cruelties and caprices every day
fubjeift hi in to such an accident. He is, however,
represented as a warm friend (if such a man can
be called a friend) to the Englifli, whose cause he
espouses upon every occasion.
Considerable quantities of Amercan pot-ashes
having been condemned by the Aflaymalters,peo
ple Ikilled in that manufacture, have been led to
make several experiments to discover the causes
of its defe&s and impurity. The great evil
which injures the sale, and very much reduces
the value of some of the American pot-ash, ari
ses from foreign matters, such as common fait
and earth, being accidentally or* designedly mix
ed with it. People vending or dealing in this
article may save thenifelves the trouble and dis
grace of fending an adulterated or faulty kind to
market, if they will only Iprevioufly observe the
following method for trying its quality.—Take
some pot-ash and diflolve it in water : Let there
be as much pot-alh as the water will diflolve.
Then plunge a piece of fifver coin, or any thin
plate of silver into the solution. If the pot-alh
contains any inflammable or improper mixtures,
it will change the silver to a dark or black colour,
in the fame manner as if it had been over the
lteani of burning sulphur—is the pot-ash is pure
tiie silver will remain bright.—Upon the experi
ment being made ihould it be discovered to be
bad, the evil can be remedied only by diflolving
the whole quantity in pure water, and boiling it
down, and fluxing it a second time ; or it may
be made into pearl-sflies, by calcination, with
little expence.
An eminent physician, whose name we are not
at liberty to mention, has obliged us with a lift
of Epidemic disorders now raging in England :
among|which are the following.—Sore Throat.
—This, he observes, although apparently infec
tious is peculiar only to certain inhabitants of the
street called Old-Baily, and frequently proves fa
tal to fix or eight at a time, —N. B. It never af
fects the patient but once, and always ends in
fuffocation. Oflate,phyficians have recommend
ed long sea voyages, to persons so bad as to be
in danger of this difteinper—but it is always bet
ter to prevent than to cure—and very ufeful di
rections for prevention may be found by applying
to the Philanthropic Society, or the Sunday schools.
Gaming is a fever, or teveiifhed affection of
the chronickind—very rarely proving/&</« fatal
but if the patient has once caught. it, seldom
leaves him, Ihould he live ever so lono-. The
paroxysms of the distemper resemble thofeof the
ague, that is, are cold and hot fits—the discharge
of yellow matter, leaves the patient very low, and
frequently a delirium conies 011, ending in sud
den death. In some patients he has observed a
11 Umbei of black and red spots, which he considers
as very unfavourable symptoms.—The disorder
is not hereditary, nor communicable without
coming in contacftwith those black and red spots.
It has been known to leave the patient for seve
ral years, and afterwards return. When this is
the cafe, lie observes that it is always fatal, a
mortification enfu'tng. In younger patients av'lor
ttfication properly treated and followed up by bit
ters, has made a cure, but theutmoft care.in this
cafe inuft be taken to prevent a relapse.
DUBLIN, August jr
The fhortnefi of the turns in a finall and ill laid
out-courfe, occasioned accidents to liorfes and
joekies during the races at Athlone. Three of
the joekies lie dangerously 311, and three of the
running |liorfes are incapacitated from ever ap
pearing on the turf in future. From the vast con
course ot people, ni any accidents happened to the
1 peculators, [anionlt whom was a (lay-maker, who
on Tuesday was killed by a horseman having i n
full speed overturned him with such violence
that his ribs were all broke.
On Monday a curious canfe came on to be tried
at Alderman Emerson's police-office : " A Liber
ty weaver fold his Cara Spofa to a friend for a
guinea and a flailing, and marched her home to
the residence of her purchaser. The mornino
following, the lady not liking the attentions of
her new Lord returned to her former lover, and
refufed to ratify his bargin with the purchaser
who in confequence applied to the police-ofßce in
646
in order to re-obtain his parcbafe money.—Abow
200 weavers attended the difciwfion. Several of
the Weavers-square Ciceros harangued on theoc
cafion ; but the plantiffwasnon-fuited.
M O N T E G O-B A Y, Oc't. 2
Our late lieutenant-governor general Clarke,
accompanied by Major M'Mordo, failed from
Portsmouth the 10th of August, in the Thynne
facket-boat, for Quebec, being appointed lieu
tenant-governor ot that province.
The inhabitants of Honduras,haviiigfijrniounL
ed the fear of any prefentdifturbance, have again
employed their negroes in their usual occupation
of falling wood and preparing it formarket.
PITTSBURGH, November 6.
No authentic accounts have yet been received
fro in the troops out on the expedition, but there
are a <neat many different reports through the
country ; these are entirely without foundation,
and mult be the fabrication of some persons who
have little else to do. Asfoon as we receive any
account that may be depended on, we fliall un
doubtedly publifli it for the information of our
readers.
Extrafl of a letter from Andieiu Elicott, Efquirt, ft
his frierid in this loivii, dated Prefqut Jfti, OCluber
ii, 179°-
" I yesterday coinpleated the survey of the
territory annexed to the State of Pennsylvania,
after much difficulty and liardlhip. The land
contained in this survey is generally good, and
from its peculiar fttuation an important object to
the State. The Indians did not appear to be well
disposed towards the execution of our business,
but after a treaty and receiving foine small pre
lents, accompanied with ruin and tobacco, per
mitted us to go on."
RICHMOND, (Virg.) Nov. n.
Thelaft accounts from Kentucky, fay, an ad
vanced party of our troops came up with a num
ber of Indians on the banks of the Ohio, killed ij,
and took 25 prisoners—aster theprifoners were
examined, 15 were found to be white ineu, and
are now iu Fayette jail, Lexington.
Yesterday the general .Afl'embly of this Com
monwealth proceeded to eletft a Senator of the
United States, in the room of the Honorable WIL
LIAM GRAYSON, Esq. deceased, and a majori
ty of votes was found in favor of JAMES MON
ROE, Esq.
BALTIMORE, Nov.- 12
Samuel Sterett, William Pinkncy, JoJhua Seney,
William Vans Murray, Philip Key, and Upton She
re dine, Ei'q'rs. are eledled federal representatives
of the (late of Maryland. '
The Hon. George Dent, Esq. liath been unani*
moujly chof'en Speaker of the House of Delegates,
now fitting, in the General Aflembly of this State,
at Annapolis.
WILMINGTON, Nov. 13
On Monday, the Bth inft. commenced the elec
tion for a representative in Congress from thii
state, when the Hon. John Fining, Esq. was re
eledted in New-Castle and Kent counties, by a
very large majority.
BURLINGTON, November 10.
At a meeting of the Burlington Society, for tht
promotion of Agriculture and DomeJlic Manufactures,
on Saturday the 6tli of November, 1790.
Refilved, That notice be given to the candi
dates tor the premium offered by this society in
their resolution of the 3d day of April last, for
the belt quantity of cheese, not lei's than 300
weight to be made in this country, that a room is
provided at the house of Mr. Alexander M'Cregor,
hatter, next door to the house of Bowes Reed,
Esq. in Burlington, for the reception of fucli
parcels of cheese as may be delivered prior to
the thefirft Saturday in January next, on which
day the premium will be adjudged.
N E W-Y O R K, Nov. 5
We hear from Connecticut that Picrpoint Ed
wards, Esq. who was lately chosen one of the re
presentatives from that fiate inCongrefs, has de
clined serving.
Died 011 Saturday, Mrs. Butler, the amiable and
much refperted consort of the Hon. Pierce Butler,
Esq. senator of the United States from the state of
South Carolina.
Extract of a letter from Briflol, Sep*.
" The famous Herfchell is about to publifli
some new oblervations upon the planetary lyftem.
\\ ith respect to those already made on the moon,
if his glalles have not inifled him, the deductions
will give us a good deal of insight into the real
nature of that planet.—From the information
o. his teleicope, several burningmountains, com
monly called Volcanoes, do there exist ; and if
such an element as fire does there exist ; there
muit be certainly such a fluid as air ro support it;
and from hence we may count upon the reality
of an atmosphere, about our attendant Satellite.
By a peculiar lucid whiteness always plainly diftinguilhable at one or the other of the lunar poles
lie also proves, that like the poles of the earth,
they are alternately covered with snow and ice.
Mr. Herfchell is now waiting anxiously for a to
tal lunar eclipse, in hopes ic will afford him an
opportunity of making some new discoveries, to
improve the planetary knowledge of the eigh
teenth century. Miss Herfchel, lifter to the As
tronomer, has lately written a second letter to the
lioval lociety, on aitronomical fubje<sts, which is
much read and approved of. We have, indeed,
sio woman upon record in this orany other coun
try, who has applied tubes withfuch success, t6
the planetary system, as this Lady."
Extrail of a letter from London, S?pt. 3.
" Under the eye of Mr. Htrfchel, the Universe
eilcreales upon us. He has recently enumerated
forty-jour thoufar.d flars in the space of a tew de
grees ; and, by analogy, there appears to be no
less than feventy-five millions in the visible heavens.
If they fill infinite space, their number mull of
consequence be infinite also. No part of mathe
matical science is more apt to surprize the gener
ality of mankind than the measurement of the re
lative positions and distances of inncceffible objects.
To determine the distance of a Ihip seen on a re
mote pare of the unvaried furface of the ocean—
toafcertain the height of the clouds and meteors
which float in the atmosphere, and to (hew with
certainty, the wonderful dimensions and distan
ces of the fun and other bodies, apparently glid
ing on the fame visible canopy, are among those
problems, which, to the unletter'd, seem beyond
the reach of human art —they are, nevertheless,
truly resolved, by means of inftrumentsconftruc't
edou mathematical principles."
from the prodigious number of Europeans, as
well as not a few American veflels that have long
been in the habit of frequenting the northern
polar seas for the fake of taking whales and other
fish for the production of oil, those animals have
of iate years become comparatively scarce. The
demand for oil, which is indispensable, has now
put many of the adventurous owners of Ihips in
the four eastern states, upon fending their veflels
to the southern extremity of the globe for this
purpofc, where, especially from the fiftieth to the
fixtietli degrees of latitude, whales are from ex
perience known to besides (on the(hores)
/eals, sea lions, and other aquatic animals, that
are capable of yielding this article in a propor
tionate abundance. Several veflels have failed
from the ports of the eastern states, since the be
ginning of Augufton this voyage, molt of which
are expedted to return the latter end of next
summer, or the beginning of autumn.
Monsizu r. Voi ney, the great traveller, and whofc voyage to
the Holy Land and othcr(partsof Asia, has given the world (o much
pleasure in its perusal, is now a member of the I'rcnch National
Ad'embly. Remarkable was his sentiment, when in giving his
opinion on thetgreat question of granting a complete liberty to the
Press in France, under the renovated government, he observed as
follows :—" As in ships (said he) inhabited by a great number of
people where thcie is a constant and fatal tendency to putrefa&i
on, it bccomes absolutely necessary (in order to preserve health)
to fumigate, scrape, sprinkle with vinegar,and convey a conltant
supply of frefh air by every means possible into the interior parts
between and'below the decks ; in like manner in every govern
ment, even the mod free, there is afimilar ftroug tendency of those
at) office towards despotism and tyranny. The libei ty of the press,
is in this cafe the great ventilator, the salutary vinegar, the busy
scraping iron, and th? searching fumigator—it is this that will in
iutuie preserve our political health in particular ; and I will be
bold to fay, that in any kingdom even the mod extensive, wheie
the people can read and write, and there is a press absolutely and
and sacredly free—there the monfterof tyranny cannot enter—the
poisonous fcrpent will not be able to breathe—she mud either
sicken and die, or depart into those realms and regions whose at
jnofphere is more congeuial to her own nature.'*
Philadelphia, Nov. 20.
WE can get no futther intelligence of thcvcflel which lately ar
rived, by report, from England, in 22 days paHagc, at Rappahan
nock. No European news of so recent a date having appeared in
the southern papers, we presume the whole account is a fabrica
tion, to answer, perhaps, some commercial speculation—whether
in paper 01 grain, we will not pretend to fay—or whether we have
any Bulls and Bears in the United Stated, time will disclose.
The following veflels lay in the port of Phila
delphia, on Friday Nov. 12,1790.
jo Ships,
45 Brigs,
25 Schooners,
43 Sloops,
1 Snow.
By the returns of the MILITIA of the slate of
Connecticut, there appearsto be fix brigades, thir
teen Regiments of Infantry, fix of Cavalry, three
companies of Matrofles, and three companies of
State Guards, amounting in the whole to thirty
thoufand effective men, well officered and appoint
ed, and completely armed ; nioft of the regi
ments were reviewed last month, and arc gene
rally in a neat uniform. A degree of emulation
pervades officers and privates to excel in the mi
litary art, that does honor to them as freemen,
and as citizens of a republic, who are determined
io support the conftitntion and government of
the country, without the aid of a Handing army,
or an expensive national militia. It is hoped the
example will extend to the neighbouring llates,
mid through the union, that foreign nations may
have 110 inducement ro attack us, when they find
ws constantly prepaTe4 for war.
The loan which has lately been negociated in
Holland with lb much.facility and dispatch,—the
frequent and ref'pedtful mention which is now
made of this country in foreign prints—the anx
iety which has been (hewn by the Englilh left the
United States should take part with the Spani
ards, in cale a war should break out between the
two powers, and the desire which England ex
prefles to conclude a treaty with us, mark the
change in the sentiments of foreign
nations with regard to us, in the strongest manner.
(General Advertijer.)
A correspondent oblerves, that the emigration
of trench citizens to this country, at this period,
is an event ofa very Angular nature : Atthe mo
ment when the people of France are emerging
from the depths of defpoiil'm, and are averting
their claim to those rights and privileges which
confer real dignity on the human character, a
very considerable number of their fellow citizens
are Seeking an asylum in the wilds of America.
This is the apparent state of the cafe: Buta few
reflections may serve to place it in a different
point of view. These emigrants have discover
ed by their conduct, that they entertain just and
competent ideas of liberty, by electing this land
of freedom as thfir retreat: Here a government
is already eltablifhed, which secures the proper
ty and equal rights of all : They reason on firm
principles, when they aflociate the idea of a bal
lanced government, liketliat ofthe UnitedStaies,
with that of civil liberty ; for life, liberty and
property, are certainly afloat where a despotic
majority bears all before it.
How long this may continue to be the cafe in
France, appeared to these emigrants uncertain—
tor power is intoxicating—and the majority there
have certainly made the niott unbounded use of
theirs, b) poflefling themlelves at a stroke, of the
greatest amount of wealth that ever was confifca
ted to the use of the public. The conafcation of
clie property of the clergy—and the voluntary
contributien of a great proportion of the estates
of individuals to public nfes, may be neceflary—
but are doubtlels considered as very alarming
precedents—for plausible pretexts are never
wanted by uncontrolled power, to make indis
criminate appropriations for the public good—
110 man, or body of men—no profeflion is exempt
—and so long as power can be supported by coii
fifcations, the profped: of a conltitution, which
ilia 11 check the rapacity of the majority, is an il
lusive idea. How far these emigrants are to blame
for quitting the pleasant fields of France, when
the exigencies of their country called for the a
bilitiesand patriotic exertions of all good citizens,
is problematical. Had they feel) a fair prospect
of fettled times, under the auspices of a free go
vernment, it is hardly to be supposed they would
have encountered the perils of the sea, and the
hardlhips of the wilderness, that they might pass
the residue of life in peace, security and freedom.
From hence we may infer, that emigration from
France at this cifis, is an imperfetfl comment on
the French revolution.
The fcveral diftri&s in Maflachufetts in which no of
Federal Representative hath taken place, arc to vote again on Fri
day the 26th inft.
His Excellency John Edgar Howard, is unammoufly rc
elc&ed Governor of the State of Maryland.
Philadelphia sincerely sympathizes with the
town of Bolton, in the loss of her invaluable ci
tizen, thelateGov. Bowdoin. This gentleman's
conduct in private and public life, has long ex
cited the love of his friends, and the admiration
of the molt distant States. His firmnefs cruflied
the rebellion in Maflachufetts in 1787. He pre
fered character to popularity, and the elteem of
wife and good men, to the praise and flattery of
the ignorant and unthinking multitude. Some
men have opposed a iingle tyrant with boldness,
who have afterwards basely crouched to the sol
ly and tyranny of the people ; but Gov. Bowdoin
poflefled the lingular fortitude of opposing a whole
body of hisconftituents when they were acling un
der a fit of temporary madness. May such Go
vernors be immortal in the annals of America !—
(From Mr. Brown's Gazette.)
Died, at Fayetteville, the Hon. Joh?i Stokes, Esq.
Judge of the Dillricfl Couvt for North-Carolina-
Diftricft.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES,
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 14f. pr. £
3 pr. Cents 7/3 ~fy-
Dctcred 6 pr. Cents 6/3,
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Scttl.and other Certificates 12/5 —12/6.
Indents 7/3 7/4-
State debts 8 A. ——8/?.
LAI Ldl AKKIVALb AL I HJH PORT.
Brig Hannah, Marlhal, Gibraltar, 56 days
Sloop Friendftiip, Deal, St. Martins
Polly, Ellwood, Virginia 9.
John Francis,
Late of Niw-York, refpeafully informs the public, that he
has opened a
Commodious Boarding
No. 53, Fourth-Street, one door from Race-Street,
WHERE Gentlemen may be accommodated with
CEKTEEL BOARDING AND LODGING,
By the Week, Month, or Year, and on the most moderate terms.
Phila. Nov. 20, 1790,— —[aaw^m.J
647
or 70 pr. cent,
or 36J do.
33 do >
do.
36J do.
4 1J do.
House,
AS the ladies in general are more affe&ed by the prevalence of
immorality nun men, it often furpiizes me, that they do not
cuiicdvor 10 look thole vices out of countenance among our sex,
which are so frequently fatal to their own tranquility.
l.ouis the XlVth was it.led the o R eat— with how much justice
will appear from the following txtra£l of a letter, written to luni
by the excellent feneton.
" Your people whom you ought love as your children, and
who have hitherto fell so strong an dffettion for you, are dying of
hunger. The cultivation of the country is almost wholly aban
doned ; the towns and villages are depopulated ; every species of
trade is decaycd,and no longer supports those who work in it j com
merce is annihilated.—.You have consequently deflroyed one hait
the real internal flrength of your kingdom, to gain and maintain
litllecontjuefts abroad. Instead of draining money from the im
poverilhed people, it was necelfary to give them alms and food.
The whole kingdom of Fiance is become a great hospital, deso
late and without provisions. The inagiflrates arc degraded, and
the nobility, againfl whom judgements have been obtained, live
only by protections. You are importuned by crouds who de
mand and who murmur.—lt is you, yourfelf, Sire, who have cre
ated all these embarrafTinents ; for the whole kingdom being iu
ined, you haveevery thing in your own hands, and none can live
but by your benefactions. Such, Sire, is this great kingdom, such
is its prosperity, under a King who is every day piinted as the de
light of his people, and who would be so in reality, if the counsels
of fychophants had not poifoncd him."
Rome once mistress of the world, owed her origin to a band of
ruffians, whom (he hafelf would have gibettcd in almoftanv fub
iequeut peiioil of her existence. What were the firft foundefs of
the Bviiifh empire but a moiley colle&ion of abandoned wretches !
And are not the justly tamed Americans their lineal descendants ?
The philosopher, when he contemplates human nature as liable to
degenerate to a level with the brute, may, by turning the picture
again, beaold it emerging from its debasement, and, riftng on the
grades of refinement, claim alliance with the angels of light.
By virtue and indullry the United States hold their claim to
greatness: Laden with our own produce, the Amcncaa flag is the
Olive Branch ot Peace in every feftion of the globe.
That our citizens should be brought up in habits of virtue and
industry is as elTemial to the prosperity of our country, as it is to
families or individuals: Everyman has some part to atl on the
bufyftage of life,and if"anyone negle&s the lot afiigned him, so
ciety is mjuied by the omiflioo, 01 it mufl be remedied by the en
creafed cxcrtionof others.
Postscript.
BY THE MAIL ARRIVED LAST EVENING.
ABSTRACT OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 20.
A Gentleman, who arrived in townyejleriay from
Alexandria, informs ; That a vejfel had arrived there
from Dunkirk, and brought accounts to the firjl of
October—which jlate, that a full accommodation of all
differences had taken place, between Spain and En
gland.
By recent accounts from Holland we are informed, that owing
to the great decline of the Dutch commerce the agio of the bank,
of Amsterdam has fallen to less than one per cent, above par.
The average ol the agio or advancc on bank, money has com
monly been 3 per. cent. 2nd it has frequently been up to 5 per
cent. The price of silver had also greatly risen, dollars were at
53 stivers ; this extraordinary event is accounted for on different
principles, the general idea is, that it originated in the great de
mand for fpecic to Ihip tothe United States.
There can be no doubt of the Spanish fleets' having re
turned into port the 6th Sept. This account has been corrobora
ted from vaiious quarters; consequently the story of an engage
ment, via Charleifon, (S. C.) falls to the ground.
The very formidable preparations made by Great-Britain,
are evidently designed to prevent a war. Peace is perhaps more
necelTary to that country, thaji to any other in Europe: This is the
opinion of Mr. Pi tt, and ofhet - wisest and best men: Spaia
will therefore deliberate a good while before she attacks a power,
in itfelf more than her match, and prepared at all points for the
worst.
France cannot seriously meditate hostilities : According to the
statements made by her patriots in the National Assembly, her fi
nances are in so critical a situation, that extra expenccs at this en
ds, would involve the nation in bankruptcy.
Catharine,deferred by the Empeior,is looking out for new al
lies ; but the account of her entering into an alliance with Sweden,
in order to support the war against the Porte, is hardly credible, if,
as has been reported, Sweden has been in league with the latter.
—Should it, however, turn out to be fact, that Qie considers Gufta
vus no longer as an enemy, it ftiongly indicates that ihe is tired
of, or io much exhausted by the war, that she is determined to fol
low the example of the Emperor of Germany, and make peace
with the Turks.
It is intercfting to trace the different origins of the commotions
which agitate the various parts of Europe.
In France the revolution was preceded by free thinking, li
bertinism and philofophy—before these down topples the whole
hierarchy ; for making a fweepflakes of the property of the cler
gy—that formidable pillar of despotism is Tapped at its founda
tion.
In Germany, on the other hand, only the gradual attempts
of the late Emperor to reform abuses, has kindled a flame of op
position to what is there confidcred as an outrageous attack on the
dearest rights and privileges of the people.
By a London paper of ißih Sept. it appears that Peace was
proclaimed at Stockholm, capital of Sweden, the 31ft August.
The late fire at Madrid burnt ten days.
' The Britilh fleet under Lord Hows had arrived at Spithead,
and the general opinion in London was, that there would be peacc
through Europe.
On Saturday the 6th inft. died at Bollon, aged 64, the Hon.
Jam es Bo wdoi n, Esq. late Governor of the State of Massachu
setts ; President of the American Academy of Arts and Scienccs ;
and of the Massachusetts Humane Society ; Fellow of the Royal So
cieties of London and Dublin ; and 0% the Society of Arts in G.
Britain ; and Doctor ot Laws in the Universities of Cambridge
and Edinburgh. \_An account Sf his funeral folemnitiesJhalL ap
pear in our next.]
Virtue alone boasts immortality /
By death transplanted to congenial climes,
It blooms eternal near the throne of Goo !
BOW DO IN is gone !— Columbia feels the.ft roke
Which took hi in : — When good men die,
The sacred barrier round the public weal
Sustains a breach ——* —
Death may destroy his thousands in an hour,
Nor make the flighted impress on creation :—
Time rolls oblivious o'er the common wave,
And makes the rippling fca soon fraooth again ;
Hut Science, Virtue, Honor. Patiiot-Worth,
Rcmov'd to Heav'n, a chasm leave behind
That Nature'* age will prove too fljort to Jill#
l. XTR ACTS.LORENZO.
.storal ELEGY. From POEMS by John Raknie,
lately publijhed.
YE valleys to which I complain,
Now trac'd with the tear-ftrccming eye,
I know that my sorrows are vain,
Yet love to indulge the fond sigh !
To muse on the days that are flown,
To think dearest Lucy on thefi !
My heart must be cold as thy own,
Ere loft the remembrance can be.
When summer in beauty arfay'd,
Shone here with a fplcndour refined,
In thee all its charms were difplav'd,
In thee all its beauties conjoined.
Thy smile, to its lustre serene,
The glories of Eden reftor'd :
Whose death gave a damp to the scene,
Whose death will be ever doplor'd !
Who rose, the sweet flow'r of delight!
Of Nature's perfe&ion in bloom :
Now loft in the confines of night,
—Conceal'd in the shade of the Tomb \
In whom love and friendfhip I found ;
Heart-piercing reflexion to me !
O Lucy—each object around,
Reminds thy LoßENzaof thee.
The winter now frowns on the year,
And loudly the hurricanes howl,
How lov'd—tor a semblance they bear,
To thetempefts that rage in toy foul!
All nature isfadden v d to woe,
The songsters no longer arc gay ;
Deje&ed they fit on each bough,
And mourn o'er the season's decay :
But nature again shall rejoice ;
.And Spring all her beauties restore ;
The songsters again raise their voice
In melody sweet as before !
The scene that so gloomy appears,
Again (hall its brightness resume :
Yet I Ihall explore it in tears,
Nor raise my fad hopes from the tomb !
The tomb, over which I recline,
That cruelly keeps thee from view,
Dear Lucy, may shortly be mine 1
That profpett is all I pursue.
The sports of the village I wave ;
No longer endearing to me r
O Lucy my foul's in thy grave,*
My withes all center in thee !
* My heart is in the coffin there, with Ccejar;
And I mujlpaufe—till it come back again. Shakespear
AN accurate STATEMENT OF TROOPS (con
tinental and militia) furnifhed by the respec
tive States, during the late war, from I77J> t0
1783, inclusive.
ofzKgeyzssojga:
-T -
ob>"n > ■» 2
>1 "1- 5« 5 S
► - H " 2:
?
(O m Oi thtoW CJCJ K
Co o - «- cr> a>c-» - cr> r -o mco o -
Oi 0">CO OOCo O —CO to CO CO —
»v»ioiccis>o o con l ©
a-> >
to Cn >- ON
Cn »- OO £ o
o O Sj
to Cr. OiCo Ch « O
►"•MwCrtlO »fc» M t- •"•
OO" Jj
to oi 00-u co n coo o -
6*3 o ** >*■ O CO Co ooco Co co -3
»■ ■ , . 1 -vi
M N» to » "- S
to O. ►£- CO
OOCo 00 to " R"
CO Cr. •- Cn »-
M wOICO CO
CT) to to Co Go Cr, ** O C> O J®
Cr. OOCo O 00 ~ Co ~ OO
to <0 o>4* o O O CO
M CO to CO M to Co O ►*
CO to CO OOCO rfk to to Cn to O
OO O »- ►£>• M Oi rf- O OO O
CO CO CO C7> *Nj
S 5
to»co*- tM a
►£>. o cc co ~ " - o rr.
ooO'iwcj "*«> M a
OiOl C.l Oi Co Oi CJ M
"■ ■ ■ — - ' I
O £
CO •>
(9 N» ClCr. rfk «-j £.'
Go Co CTj gj-
M N OC 4* Cl O
-- - * " 11
Mt* CVO to Crt Co CJ "» 30 5 I
rfk Co '*Q W CO '-3 V 1 CT*~-» M -» Oj W S 1
{.o iO '-O 08Oi ®Ow OCO • I
(From the Salem Gazitlc.)
K> ~ 0> N> -J 3
oo >» S-.
o OCO ►£* 10 tn a
O Cn Co
10 ~
<£>
10 to
C> -4
v» Oi to
Oitn »
CTI ~ W
r-s
M W M (0 C 3 »
Oi to *>j co ►*» r?.
M -4 004* K» IO M o a
o. Oi o oo o to o ►*
_.—— — — ~oe —
fe
Cr» Crt 51'
f.K O Ol S'
~ <7> •
M M »* »• M M »». -J 3
M K)IO - CO
O O OO C> 0"> CTY-O CO 00 - «« j* -
o 0010 - corf'
AfmpUuud wjy tuttbod
.ASHES by ca.ana.ton. —-KC_ _ ■n-nitou
equal, if r.ot fupcrior, to that made ,n the „««*»»
way, by leaching the aj^cs.
TT'RECT a pearling oven made in the c °" ,nl ®"
-L form, except vvithtliis difference-undc the
hearth ofthe oven there mult be an aich g
than the hearth, so as to let the chminty ««nd
up behind the oven, and must be w • .
to contain a fmallpot-afh kettle, ot ar S , '.
which must be about three quarters
water, then covered with a lid, or ieat , •
still, tight and secure, with an iron P/P e ** ed "
the centre of the head, or cover, conunumg th o
the hearth ofthe oven, and
about two or three inches of the under fide o. the
arch ofthe oven ; then put into the oven fiom
fix to eight bushels of allies, or a gieaier 01
quantity in proportion to the size or t e oven ,
then kindle the fire in the upper arch, which
will flame all over the alhes, and in time change
thent to a liglnifh color, and when the alhes aie
burnt to a great degree, stir them with an iron
scraper, which will canfe all the common moil
ture to pass off; then kindle your fire 111 the low
er arch until the water boils freely, which will
caufea steam to ascend throughthepipe, that will
produce a damp, which, in combination with the
particles of heat, will cause the alkalies to sweat
out and separate from the earthly parts, which
soon evaporate and pass off, leaving the peat la les
in a ftateof great perfection, as well as quantity.
PHILANTHROPER.
N.B. Leached a/hes produce good pearled ajhes,
yielding amazingly, a?id work much eaficr than otnei
ajhet.
(From the Vermont Gazette.)
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERY.
THE Managers as the STATE LOTTERY, present the Public
With the First Cak of the Majfcchufetts fcmi-tinnual Stale Lot
ten, which will commence drawing in the Reprcfentat'ves' Chamber,
in Boston, on the Seventeenth of Marck next, or sooner, it the
Tickets (hall be disposed of.
SCHEME.,
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
125,000 Dollars, to be paid in the following Prizes, (übjeft 10 a
deduaion of twelve and an half per cent, for the life of the Com
monweaith.
Prizes.
1 of
2
3
6
10
3°
80
9°
100
120
161
200
75 8 5
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
25000.
£3" TICKETS may be had of the fevcral Managers, who will
pay the Prizes on demand —of the TREASURER of the Common
wealth—of JAMES WHITE, at his Book-Store, Franklin's~Hcad t
Court'Streety and at other places as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.l
DAVID COBB,
SAMUEL COOPER, }> Managers.
GEORGE R. MINOT, \
JOHN KNEELAND, J
Bojlon y July 28, 8790.
Otlober 14, 1790. j
NOTICE is hereby given, That Prof)ofals will be received at
the Office of the Secretary of the Treasury, to the 30th day
ofNovember next, inclusive, for the fuppiy of all Rations which
may be required tor the use of the United States, from the firft day
of January to the thirty-Grft day of December 1791, both days in
clusive, at Springfield, in the State of Maflachufetts, and the Poftof
Wejl-Point, in the State of New-York.
The Rations to be supplied, arc toconfift of the following Arti
cles, rir. One pound of Bread or Flour,
One pound of Beef, or j of a pound of Pork,
Half a jill of Rum, Brandy, or Whisky,
One quart of Salt, }
Two quarts of Vinegar, (
Two pounds of SoJp, ( P r " 106 rat,ons '
One pound of Candles, )
Separate Proposals may be made for each place, fpecifying the
lowest price pr. ration. No credit is required.
r>
o
M 81
--J
vj
" I
E'
S 5
a
m ?
-a
S'
INTELLIGENCE-OFFICE,
No. 208, in Market, above 6th Street, South fide,
WI L L be negociated all kinds of PAPER
MONEY and
BUSINESS tranfa<fled in public offices in the
city, and such Paper-Money and Certificates furnilhed, as will
make payment at the Land Office equal to Gold and Silver.
MONEY borrowed or loaned, and BILLS,
BONDS, and NOTES of HAND discounted.
HOUSES, Farms, Lands, and Lots, bought
and fold, let or leafed, and Houses, Rooms, Boarding and Lodg
ing procured for Strangers, or others.
BOOK-KEEPERS, Clerks, School-Masters,
Waiters, Nurses, Seamstresses, Chamber and other Maids, and
thofc of other profeffions, who come well recommended, mav
hear of employ J and Employers be supplied, by apDlyinir to
FRANCIS WHITE.
Dealer in Paper Money, and Public Securities
648
Dollars. Dollars,
10000 !S 10000
3000 6000
2000 6000
1000 6000
500 s coc
200 6000
100 8000
50 45°°
40 4000
30 3600
20 3220
10 200©
8 60680
125000
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, 1
At the
Public Securities,
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,"!
Sept. 28, i 79°- J
\ TOTICE is hereby given, that propofaU wiil be received ai the
nv . l c , ,>l the Trealurv, until the 3*lt civ
.L\ Olßce ot the Secretary of tl»c TrHT fV onsh
of December next inclutive, tor thebuildmg of a LIGH 1 HO^SL,
nearly of the dimenlions prupofed by the late Com,n.iboncs o.
Virginia and Maryland, upon the lot of land on Cape Henry, tu
the County ot Princefi Ann, and State of Virguna, lately ceded to.
hat purpofeto the United Stale,. It is defircd,th.t the propofaU
mayK the election, whet, er the buildtng above the foundation
ihall be of brick, orftone, and as tlic cost and charges o .
terials vary, it is e'xpetted, tint a correfpood.Qj d.lterence wtll be
made in the terms offered. -ao/-' f-ini-
Tlic foundation ot the Light-Houfc is to be of stone, aa.fank.
to the depth of thirteen feet below the wat. r table, over the top-ot
which the pavement i. to be laid. The diameter thereof u to be
twenty seven feet f.x inches, with a vacancy ot about nine feet m
th VhTd,'meter ofthe base isto be twenty fix feet at which place
the thicknef. of the walls i, to be f.x feet The height from the
bottom of the water table to the top of the stone worlt is to be se
venty two teet.wherethediameteristobeftxtecn fee. fix inches,and
the thickness of the walls three feet. The lorn, is to be an ot'Ugon
having three windows in the eart, and four in the weft. If it be
built of brick, it is to DC faced with the glassy kind, it of ftjru, it
istobe faced with hewn or haminer-dreired ttone
On the top ofthe stone work is to be a floor of jo.fts, bedded
therein, planked over and covered with copper, extending about
two feet eight inches beyond the wall, thereby forming an eve,
which is to be finithed with a cornice, the whole having a defcetit
from the centte fufficient to throw off the water.
' The lanthorn is to be supported by eight polls of wrought Iron
of three inches square and twenty feet in length, ten tect of wh.t!.
aietobe wrought into the stone wall on the inner part at each
corner The diameter of it is to be ten tect, leaving a platform on
the ouf.de thereof of about fix feet in width. All the work above
this is to be of iron and copper. The lanthorn is lo be ten feet
hi"h, having a semicircular roof of five feet more, w.th iron raft
er? covered with copper. Thewhole space between the potts fop- '
porting the lanthorn, is to be occupied by the sashes, which are
to be made of iron, each sash is to have twenty-eight panes ot
rUfs, twelve bv fourteen inches. One of the sashes on the Couth
weft fide is to be hung with hinges for a door to go out upon the
p!atf->im, from the outer part of which to the root of the lanthorij
is to be a frame of iron covered with a net work ot strong bras*
wire, to prcferve the glass from injuries by hail and flights of
birds in the night.
The rafters of the lanthorn arc to be well fattened to an iron
hoop, over which is a copper funnel, through which the fmoke
may pass into a Urge copper ventilator in the form of a man s
head, capable of containing one hundred gallons. I his head is to
be so placed as to be turned by a Urge vane on the (pir? above it,
that the hole for venting the fmokc may always be to the leeward.
Eight dormant ventilators of fix inchcs diameter are to be fixed
in the roof ofthe lanthorn.
A close stove is to be provided and fixed in the lanthorn, which
is to be furnifhed with eight lamps, each capablc of containing fix
quarts, hung in two tiers over each other tranfverfcly. 1 here are
to be fix flights ol flairs to ascend to the lanthorn, the entrance to
which is to be by a door covered with copper. 1 lie building
to be furnilhcd with two condu&ors, to iecure it from ihc eifedts
of lightning.
A frame house is to be built for the keeper, twenty feet square,
two stories high, with a frame kitchen ; the whole to be finifhed
with lath and plaifter.
A vault for the lloragc and fafe keeping of the oil isto be built
of (lone at a convenient distance, twelve feet wide, and twenty in
length. It isto be arched, and covered with eartH °r fa<id, over
which a fried is to be built, and it is to be lurniftied with eight
(trong cedar citterns with covers, each capable of containing two
hundred gallons of oil. The entrance isto be secured by a strong
door.
Good security for the faithful performance of the contract will
be expe&ed. Payments on account will be made at proper Ima
ges ol the work, and the balance will be paid on its completion :
or, if a suitable difference should be made in the terms, cafli will
be advanced for the purchase of materials and provisions.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,!
Sept. 29, 1790- J
IT is hereby made known, that the following arrangement hak
been adopted towards carrying into execution the Afi", mak
ing provision for the debt of the United States, viz.
Loan-Office Certificates, andthofe issued by the Commiflion
ers for the adjustment of accounts in the several States, will be re
ceivable only at the Treasury and by the refpe&ive Commiflioncrs
of Loans within the States in which they were refpettively issued.
The Certificates issued by the Regiiler of theTreafury, by the Pay
Matter General and Commiflioner of Army Accounts, by the
CommifTioners for the adjustment of the Accounts of the Quarter
Matter's, Commissary's, Hospital, Cloath'ng, and Marine Dcpart
partments, Indents of Interest, and Bills ot Old Emiflion, will
be receivable indiscriminately at the Treasury and by the Com
miflTioners of all the States. The situation of the Checks has dicta
ted this arrangement for the greater fccurity ot the public against
impositions by forged or counterfeit paper, and which theslaideta
have been adopted from the fame consideration for the execution
of the business are such, that it will give facility and dispatch, if
applications from the Holders of Certificates ot the Register of
the Treasury and of the Paymaster General, and Commiflioner of
Army Accounts, and of the Commiflioners of the five Depart
ments above mentioned, are made in the firtt instance at the Trea
sury ; and if applications from the Holders of Loan Office Certi
ficates, and Certificates issued by the Commiflioners for the adjust
ment ot Accounts in the refpettive States, are made in like man
ner to the Commiflioncrs of Loans within the States in which they
wer« issued. Transfers can afterwards be made to any Office that
the Proprietors of these Certificates may dc&re.
PURSUANT to a Rcfolvc or ast of Congress of the 10th day
of May, 1780, relative to the deftru&ion of Loan-Office Cer
tificates by accident ; notice is hereby given to all whom it may
concern, that on the 2d day of January 1780, the houle occupied
by the fublcriber in Market-Street, Philadelphia, took fire and
was coniumed, in which was lodged a number Loan-Office
certificates as pr. lift below, all which were destroyed by the said
fire : Therefore if any person, hath any objeffcion why the said
Certificates ihould not be renewed, agreeable to the resolves of
Congress. they must make them before the expiration of three
months, from the date hereof.
Invoice »f Loan-Office Certificates dcflroyed in the house of Holkcr
on the 2d day of January 1780,
1778.
March 13.
No.
1636 1 ;
1673 1
Inteftimony whereof I have finned the present for pub
lication. HOLKER.
New-York, July 26th, 1790.
SO" SUBSCRIBERS in the City and State if
New-York—and to the Eaflward as far as BoJ'oh,
will pie afe to pay their arrearages to Mr. P. W etroore,
at the Poft-Offict, New-York—.who will also receive
fuifcriptiansfor the Cazitte.
Samuel Cooke, jun. New-York, 6oq
ditto. do. €go
Dollars, 1200.
Dol'.