(SqzgM
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, MARK,STREET, BETWEEN SWHD AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 6 1, of Vol. ll.] Saturday, November 27, 1790.
lOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE
Whale-fiftiery and Seal-catching
T I has been verified from experience, that
Whales change their places of resort in
confequencc of the continual warfare against
them. At the lirft settlement of this country,
Whales were commonly found 011 these coalts,
and not unfrequently drove aftioie. The Whjt.e
iisHERY, carricd 011 by the Dutch, Engliih, and
our countrymen, in the northern seas, was for
merly very productive ; but of late years, veflels
frequently returned home without the lead suc
cess. The present rout of Whales is alongthe
Brazil coafl ; and they are still tending south
ward, so that there can be little doubt but in a
few years, the Wh a le-t is h ery w ill beprofecu
ted in as high a southern, as it has been in a
northern latitude.
A very serious inconvenience will arise from
this change, which is indeed already experien
ced ; and more particularly when vefl'els are un
fuccefsful, which often happens : Thac is, the
extreme length of the voyage, which occasions
an increase of the expences of outfit. To reme
dy, in an eflential manner, this very serious in
convenience, wjiich may eventually discourage
this valuable branch of fifhery, the following
hints are suggested.
Froin foine lat;e voyages to the Faulkland ifl
ands, which have been fufficiently fuccefsful to
prove the experiment, there can be no doubt but
by connecting the two objects of WHALING and
SEALING, a very profitable voyage would be
made. Should the whaling voyage prove fuccefs
ful, the veflel returns home to a sure and certain
iiiarket. If only partially fuccefsful, or totally
uufuccefsful, let the veflel run to the Falkland-
Islands, and undertake the killing of Seals, which
are to bte found in different parts of those innu
merable inlets and islands. A' knowledge »f
their haunts, norwithltandiuo; the pretenlions to
the contrary, can be readily acquired by a perse
vering search. Seals abound in vast numbers,
and keep together in herds. They arefo harm
less and taine, as to fuffer themselves to be knock
ed down with clubs, the only weapon used in
killing, then). The point is to get between them
and the shore when in a rookery, ag it is phrased,
of i jco Seals, not ten will escape, anda crew of
twelve men will sometimes kill as many, or more,
in one day. The Nantucket and eastern part of
Long-Island Whalemen, will find themselves pe
culiarly adapted for this business, as beingaecuf
toined to live aihore as well as follow the seas—
hunting is familiar to them. Many advantages
are lolt by the inexperience of the crews in this
trade, and the novelty of the business. They are
generally at firll so terrified with the grinning
and howlings of the Seals, as to fuffer a few to
break thro the line which intercepts their com
munication with the sea, which if once accoin
plifhed,it is almost impossible to prevent the whole
herd from escaping. Great resolution and alert
ness is therefore required, and the latter being a
qualification which ordinary seamen are seldom
remarkable for ashore, will prove the superior
advantages of our Eastern Whalemen, in this par
ticular, which is a very eflential one.
Seal-catchitig-has hitherto beenprofecuted mere
]y for the fake of the ilcins. The Hair-Seals are
fervicable for Leather, and will fell at market
from 10 to 12cents, pr. lb. especially the smaller
kind, which are in great estimation for fine shoes.
1 he Fur-Seals are an objeiS of remittance to
Canton, and tho hitherto fold from half to three
quarters of a dollar, pr. Ikin, will, no doubt, up
on a fair experiment of the China-market, bring
niore. The ikin of the Fur-Seal with the Fur on,
vvhen properly drefled, makes exceeding hand
lome Waillcoat-Patterns, and might be introdu
ced for that purpose ; they are of a more durable
nature, and would be very serviceable, especially
to labourers, having all the advantages, without
the inconvenience ofleather.
There another advantage to be derived,
which has hitherto been overlooked, and that is,
the making of Oil from the Seals, which are remar
kably fat and oily. There can be no doubt at all,
but a very conliderable benefit would arise on
this score, and no perfonscan be better qualified
to make the experiment than the Eastern Whale
men. The crew of a veftel will be at very little
expence for provifioiis, except bread, as great
plenty of Hogs ai e to be taken with dogs, and
wild fowl, iuch as Ducks, Geefp, &c. are so abun
dant and tame, as to be knocked down with clubs,
and affoid verj good fultenanre. Their feath
ers may likewise be saved—and afford another
object of profit.
By wintering in these Hands, frequent chances
offer of going out witli boais an-! taking Whales,
which approach very near. L.ilu'wifegreat quan
tities of Oil may be made fious Sea-Lions, and a
large fifli called the Black which are very
plenty, and lb large, as to itlii. -- . two to three
bands each. <
By exploring this hitherto little frequented
pait of the otherad vantages may possibly
be found ; but that fii ifingfrom sealing is alrea
dy proved from actual experiment. Skals like
wise abound on the oppolite shores of Patagonia,
where the trade may be carried on without any
difficulties but what may arile from a coait, as
yet little navigated.
i lie writer of thef? observations has been in
duced to offer them solely from a motive of commu
nicating to his fellow-citizens at large, a branch
of commerce, that protnifes considerable benefit
to the United States, conceivingit to bethedtity
of every person to add, as far as is in his power,
to the common stock of national profit and hap
piness. 1 lie remarks are founded upon an ac
tual knowledge of facSs. The few voyages which
have hitherto been made, have been conducted
with affected secrecy. It is impoflible, however,
to withhold foi any length of time, what is ne
ceflarily imparted to many. To blend the two
voyages ofWHALtNG and Sealing, appears to
be extremely feafible, and likely to produce a sure
success ; and every means that may tend to pro
mote the navigation of the United States, will,
however, humbly represented, be, no doubt, can
didly accepted.
The Tablet No. 150*
[Continuation from ths fact number.]
" Conquejl andplunder bring,uith riches, a train of
pfrniz:-» J" L. £j j tl:i: d"'~' 'f 1 >" the
attending indufiry and compter ot, is femicioui ulfo."
contemplate the caufcs which haveope
-1- rated in the rile, the progress, and the
decline of nations, is a talk which no legislator or
civilian can too often impofeupon himfelf. Tliofe,
who employ their reflections in this wav, willdif
cover foine events, which, nnder certain cy'cum
ftances,have a pernicious influence upon society ;
while others, of a like nature, in a different state
of affairs, produce aferies of the molt important
advantages. For instance, wealth and luxury
may push one nation into sudden deftru<flion,
while they raise another into power and distinc
tion, and contribute to enlarge the circle of ge
neral enjoyment, as well as to secure the continu
ance of rational freedom. I will now submit to
the coaafideration of the reader, a few iketches up
on the situation and character of the Romans,
with a view of ascertaining what occasioned the
rife and downfall of that nation. It shall then
be enquired of him, whether he seriously believes
the affairs of the United States can ever ftouiiih.
or decay, from similar causes.
That the Romans made such a confpictrous fi
gure upon the stage of human affair*, was origi
nally owing to the mere accident of their being
introduced by such a founder as Romulus. Had
any of the neighboring rtates been conducted by
a leader of superior address, and who pofieffed
greater talents for plunder, the name of Rome
had perhaps never reached posterity. To the
single circumstance therefore of his intrigue and
enterprize, mult be alcribed their original afcen
dancy over other nations. After they had once
taken the lead, and begun to spread their con
quests and dominion about the contiguous coun
try, it was alinpft impofljble,tbeir career ihould
be checked. There was no system of combinati
on in the adjacent dates, that could bring their
forces to a<st in such concert, as to make an effec
tual stand against the Roman arms. Their go
vernment was eredled for the sole purpose of war.
Their situation was favorable to this obje<ft. and
no other. The age in which they lived was mar
tial. They were pooV, and of course, habitudes
of simplicity and felf-denial rose naturally from
that poverty. Personal fafety, and the defence
of the slate were so blended, that the idea could
not befeparated. Valor wasalmoft the only qua
lity in repute, because it was almost the only one
that was ufeful. The love of esteem is so strong
a passion", thatmoft men cultivate those qualities
which will gain it This account* for their so
653
%ffSp>o
[Whole No. 165.]
much boasted amor patrice. Their fidelity to go
vernment was no lei's secured by the rigors offu
perftition, than it was incited by a desire of plun
der.
Who does not perceive, in such a fabric, a con
n ant effort,exifting within itfelf, to fall to pieces ?
>uch a people cannot be supposed to keep them
ielves together without perpetual war. If they
have no foreign wars, they probably will have
contentions at home ; and what they call the pe
i iod of peace, is precisely the time, when they
molt harrafs and destroy one another. In
short, they must be gaining conqtiefts over other
nations, or they fall into factions, and precipi
tate themselves at once. The effect of
conquests is wealth and infolencc. Their public
v irtue i efults from nothing but their danger and
their poverty. But the period must arrive, when
their situation will beno'longer hazardous or in
digent. What is the consequence ? Theirfevere
discipline, and rigid maxims, which were a sub
stitute for private virtue, are shaken by fatftion,
and relaxed bypleafure. Riches,pouringin from
conquests, introduce crimes and profligacy, and
thus the spirit, and even the name of civil liber
ty is loft in the general depravity. Is there not
an efl'ential difference between theefFedcof wealth
thus acquired, and that which is the reward of
arts and industry ? Why does a robber or a gam
bler make a wanton use of the property he ac
quires ! Becaul'e, the disposition, which urges
him to afl'ume such a charaifter and condutfl, im
plies luch a want of principle, as renders hini un
fit to hold any of the blessings of life. Wealth
will notprofper in such hands. The cafe is much
the fame with a nation of plunderers, as with a
private robber. Both have hearts too unfeeling
and abandoned to use the gifts of providence with
decency and moderation. Excess and brutality
will mark their actions. They are strangers to
those restraints and refinements, which the ul'eful
employments of civil life create and support ;
and which guard people against those atrocious
crimes, no less than againlt the dangerous ex
tremes of vicki and folly.
It is a maxim that will generally hold good,
that no individual or community will make a pro
per application of wealth, which they have not
honeilly acquired. I will even carry the idea
further and suggest, that wealth is apt to bemif
applied by those who have not been personally
inllrumental in earning it, under circumstances
that required some care and industry. It may il
lustrate the idea toflate a cafe. No person will
presume to fay that the citizens of Philadelphia
do not make a prudent and even a commendable
use of their riches. But if that city lhould fall in
to the hands of an arinyof Tartars, and the pro
perty be divided as plunder among the soldiers,
who does not paint to himfelf the horrid mifchiefs
that would be perpetrated ! Howfuddenly would
the discipline of that army be dissolved ! How
quick would their military ardor be dissipated and
loft ! Each soldier would imagine, the sooner her
squandered his (hare, and the more outrage he
committed with it, the more confidently would
he appear with himfelf, as a barbarian and plun
derer. It ihould not therefore too haitily be in
ferred, that we Ihould experience such deftrutfive
consequences, from the affluence which attends
arts and commerce, as the ancients did, from that
which followed their conquelts. I dwell the more
minutely upon this partof the ftibjecl, and exem
plify it in many different shapes, because there
are many people who really apprehend that the
liberties of this country must be swallowed up, if
we adopt such regulations as will make us a com
mercial, a wealthy, and a splendid nation. To
destroy such suspicions, as far as they are ground
left, not only relieves those who feel from them
painful and ufelefsanxiety, but makes them bet
ter citizens and wiser politicians. Itcannotthen,
be too strongly urged upon all men, who take a
part in public affairs, or who wifli to discern the
effed: of public measures, to obtain a fatisfacftory
solution of the following question ; -whether to
encourage commerce, and the mechanical and liberal
arts be a circuvijlance, unfavorable or not in the long
run, to the freedom and happiness of a community ?
There is a certain point beyond which, it is said,
wealth and refinement cannot be carried without
vitiating the personal qualities of men, and ren
dering them unfit agents to manage and retain
the blessings of civil liberty. In what light such
an opinion Ihould be conlidered, shall be mad*,
the fubje<ft of another pffay.
T» it continual.)PASTIME OF VENUS
Or, The KISS.
INTENT td frame Come new design of bliss,
The wanton Cyprian Queen compos'd a KISS :
An ample portion of Anwroftal Juice
With mystic skill Hie temper'd firft for use
This done, her infant work was well bedew'd
Withchoiceft Nectar ; and o'er all fhc ftiew'd
Part of that Honey % which fly Cupid stole
Much to his cost, and blended with the whole.
Then, that foft scent which from the f'Viet slows
$he mixt with spoils of many a vernal Rose ;
Each gentle Blavdijhment in love we find,
Each graceful winning Gejlure next (he joir.'d ;
And all those Joys that in her Zone abound
Made up the KISS, and the rich labour crown d :
Confid'ring now what beauteous Nymph might prove
Worthy the Gift, and worthy of her love ;
She fixt on Chloe y as her favourite Maid ;
To whom the Goddess sweetly-smiling said :
4t Take this my Fair to perfect ev'ry Grace,
" And on thy Lips the FRAGRANT BLESSING place.
[MR. FENNO,
HAVING seen an exceeding badtranflation of the
enclosed Address, of the Americans at Paris, to the
National Ajfembly, make its appearance in several
vewfpapers, I have sent you an original topy, to pub
lifb in your cxtenfively circulating paper either in
French or Englijh, or both languages if you please,
with views of doing juftics to the fubfertbers of the
Address. American us.]
Boston, 15 Nov. 1790.
ADRE S S E
Pes Citoyens des Etats-unis de l'Ameiique, prononcee devant V
Affemblee nationale,par M. William Harwood Vernon,
dans la feanee de Samedi au foir, le 10 Juillet 179°*
MESSIEURS,
FRapp6s d'admiration, a la vue du development & de In
tention de leurs propres principes dans cet heureux pays, les
citoyens des etats unis de l'Amerique qui fe trouvent a Paris, fol
licitent ardemment la faveur d'approcher du faint autelde la liber
ie, & de temoigner a l'aflemblec nationale cettc vive reconnoif
iance &ce profond refptft que meritent les peres d'un grand peu
ple, Sc Tes bienfaiteurs du genre humain. L'etoile d'occidcnt qu',
des bords eloigites repandoit son eclat, reunit fe* rayons *n ceux du
foleil glorieux qui, " verse des torrens de lumiere" fur l'empire
iranfois, pour eclairer enfm l'univers.
La force de la veritc eft' irresistible, & la celerite de fes progres
•ft au-doHus de tout calculation. Nous avonscru,& nous le fouhai
tions fincerement, que les bienfaits de la liberie feroient un jour
apprecies ; que les nations fortiroient de leur lethargie, & reclam
eroient les droits de I'homme avec une voix que les hommes ne
pourroient pas etouffer ; nous avons cru que le luxe & la paflion
de dominer perdroient leurs charmes illufoires : que ces chcfs, cea
rois, cesdieux de la terre renonceroient aux diftin£tions idolatres
qu'on leur prodiguoit, pour fe confondre avec leurs concitoyens &
le rejouir de leur bonheur ; nous avons cru que la region fe de
pouilleroit de fes terreurs empruntees,'& qu'elle rejetteroit les ar
ines meurtrieres de l'intolerance & du fanatifme, pour prendre le
sceptre de la paix. Ces evenemens s'accellercnt aujourd'hui d'une
iT)aniereetonnante,& nous eprouvons une joieindicible, & jufqu'a
pt efent inconnue, de noustrouverdevant cette venerable aflemblee
de heros de l'humanite, qui, avec tant de fucces, ont combattu
dans le champ de la verite & de la vertu.
Puiilent les douces emotions d'une conscience fatisfaite & lea
henedi&ions d'un peuple heureux & reconnoiflant etre le prix de
vos genereux efforts! Puifle le roi patriote, qui a si noblement fa
f rifie avec vous fur l'autel de la patrie, en partager amplement le
fruit ! Lc monarque, qui, en commenfant facarri£rs a repandufes
bienfaits fur des regions eloignees, etoit bien digne d'echanger 1'
•clat feduifant du pouvoir arbitraire contre l'amour & la gratitude
de fes concitoyens. Dans la Fraoce regencree l'on peut bien I'ap
peller le premier rois des mais dans lelangagede l'univers
il sera le premier roi des hommes.
Nous n'avons plus qu'un vceu a former ; e'eft que vous vouliez
bien, meflieurs, nous accorder l'honneur d'affifter a l'augufte cere
inonie qui doit assurer pour toujours le bonhenr de la France.—
Lorfque les Franfois combattoient& verfoient leur fang avec nous,
sous l'etendard de la liberte, ils nous appiirent a les aimer ; au
jourd'hui que r&abliflement des meines principes nous rapproche
d'avantage & reflerre nos liens, nous ne trouvons plus dans nos
tceurs que les doux fentimens de fieres & de concitoyens. C'eft
au pied de ce memeautel, ou les reprefentans & les foldatscitoyens
d'un vafte and puissant empire, prononceront le ferment de fide
lite a la nation, a la loi, & au roi, que nous jurerons une amitie
eternelleaux oui, a tousles Franpaisfidelesaux principes
que vous avez confacres, car, comme vous, meflieurs, nous cheri
ffons la liberte, comme vous, nous aimons la paix.
Joel Barlow,
Samuel Blackden,
Paul Jones,
James Swan,
Thomas Appleton,
Benjamin Ja r ViS
George HO WELL
Contee,
Anderson,
Harrison,
J. Lewis,
George Washington Greeni,
Williant Ha*wood Vernon.
LONDON, Sept. 21
THE learned Hugo Grotius remarks, that however king
doms or states may be divid«d by particular boundaries, the
£>3 flwild be open for the fifltmg of all nations, as n«# limit can be
fixed to any part of the ocean ; and tho it may walh any ftiore or
eoaft whatever, no dominion should therefore be claimed to the
great liquid element, 01 to its finny inhabitants. Tho this princi
ple may not be acknowledged by Great-Britain, yet the Dutch
are fuffered to fiih off the isles and coasts of Scotland, without im
pediment or interruption—The Spaniards would, however, en
deavour to exclude fche Englifli from fifhing oft the coasts of South
Amcrica, or even those of Patagonia, which approximate to the
Straits of Magellan ; a tra£t of territory they never yet poffcfTed,
and only build their idle hypothesis on the arrogant supposition,
that the whole South Sea or Southern Atlantic belongs to Spain,
because possessed of the empires of Mexico and Peru.
A firft rate farmer who re fides at a small village near Lowth, one
rainy day last week, was obliged to attend his grounds, and com
ing home ringing wet, stripped himfelf and hung his cloaths in
the yard to dry, [the weather afterwards proved fine] but at the
fame time negle&ed to take his purse out of one of his pockets.
In a (hort time, however, the honed clodhoppcr recolledted, he
did not intend to hang forty odd guineas out to dry, therefore,with
' eagle's wings,he flew to the yard,butalas! the purse was gone—After
some deliberation on what steps he should then take, it readily
occurred to his memory to have fcen a tame Mag-pye, which he
kept, exceedingly busy with his breeches, and knowing that it fre
quently visited a neighbouring church, immediately west in fcareh
of it ; when lo ! to his great surprise and
his purse and it, contents fafelydcpof,ted ot. the top o the ip.re
There are now not less than 300,000 ch.ldren educa d .t
day schools in this kingdom ; a tenih of whom, thing
salutary a means, might remain in total ignoiance o , edu
but the vicious, idle pra&iees of the world. I it isiru
cation forms the human mind, instead ofexpen we e p
to Botany-Bay, in future, let us expend the fame money in enco
raging a moral education, in the poorer clafsof yout , an
nals, in time, will become unknown afnonglt us.
In such a sudden and rapid transition from a state o
that of a free people, as has been experienced in France, t a !
circumstances should have occured which we do not approve ,
there should have been some excesses to deplore; rc 6 u 3 lon
toreverfe; some mistakes, which more mature consideration an
further experience may, and probably will, corrett—-is not at a
surprising. The wonder is, that, in a revolution of such immen e
extent and magnitude, there (hould be fn little to blame, an o
much to praise. The defe&s are few and infignificant, t e
spots on the fun, they.are loft in the. general splendour and brig t
nefs of the whole. The merits are numerous and important. In
many of their preceedings, and more especially on the subject o
teligious liberty, the French National AiTembly have set an exam
ple of wisdom and liberality to the Britilh Parliament. Our coun
trymen, we hope, will not fuffer themfelve* to be 'outdone in the
general ftrifeto extend the freedom and promote the happiness o
mankind—the only fitrife and competition worthy of two great
and enlightened nations.
P A R I S, August 29.
It appears from Montesquieu's report on the different parts
of the public debt, th^vthe interest on the funded debt amounts to
167.700,0©® livres, arid that the whole of the unfunded debt, in
dependent of the 400-,000, 000 aflignats emounts to 1,902,540,000
livres. The total mass of interest of the funded and unfunded
debt, amounts to 281,000.000, which ilhakes it neceflary that the
approaching taxes fhouid produce 521,009,000.
M. de Moniefquieu also observed that the national effe&s are
estimated at between two and three thousand millions, from,
which must be deduced 400,000,000, appropriated to the aflig
nats a&uallv in circulation. To avoid exaggeration, the commit
tee of the finances supposed that the surplus of the national effe&s
did not exceed the capital of the unfunded debt. Reasoning from
this hypothesis, by employing these effe&s in the extin&ion of the
public debt, it is demonstrated. that 474,000,000, raised by taxes,
will be fufficient to defray all expenses of every nature.
He proposed, that for the security of the unfunded debt, the
newly acquired national etfe£ls should alone be applied. But the
question remained undecided, whether the equivalent to be given
(Tiould be new aflignats, or in simple acknowledgments. This is
the great problem, which Temains to be determined, and which
the committee of finances were content to pcopofe to the Aflem
bly. without venturing upon it themselves.
M. de Mirabeau affirmed that a new emiflion of aflignats could
alone preserve and consolidate the existence of the constitution.
He then proposed, 1. To discharge the whole of the unfunded
debt—by aflignats bearing no interest. 2. To putupto sale imme
diately, the whole of the national domains ; and that these sales by
auttion fhonld take place in all the diftri&s of the kingdom. 3.
To receive the aflignats in payment, to the exclusion of money,
and all other paper. 4. To burn the aflignats as they ftiall come
in. 5. To order the committee of finances to prefer.t the plan of a
decrce, to give effe& to their system as soon as poflible.
His fpcech was ordered to be printed,—a memorial from the
firft minister of France, was then read, addressed to the Aflfembly.
In this letter M. Necker warmly combats the proposal for a new
emission of aflignats to the amount of near two thousand ; from
this emiflion, said the minister, the greatest disorder will result,
from its destroying the du« balance between paper and specie.
The sale of the national property ordered on the 6th of August;
has been effected ; a further sale is to take place in the beginning
of September to the amount of i,541,745 livres.
The bufiucfs of coinint brass money was again brought before
the AflTembly. They*were informed that aM. Pasquier had dif-
Covered a method to render the metal of bells ductile and mallea
ble, and that there is in France more than two millions of thai
metal, which could not fail to be highly ufeful on the present oc-
..cafion,
A petition was yesterday presented to the National AlTembly
by a committee from the National Guard at Versailles, through
M. Berber, their commandant, refpe&ing the funeral honors due
to those who fell in quelling the infurreftion at Nanci. «Part of
this memorial runs as follows : " They have now sealed with
their blood the oath which they took but a few days before, to
devote their lives to the nation, to the support of the law, and to
the fafety of their King !
To have fought and to have died by their fide would have been
our mod sacred duty—to pay their memory the last tribute of
worth, is now the mod anxious desire of our hearts—and it is our
most ardent wifli to raise to them a monument worthy of them
selves and deeply expielliveof our cfteem !
Let a Pyramid, simple in its ftrutture, but of a majeflic appear
ance, be cre&ed to them atone of the gates of Nanci.
Upon this Pyramid let there be an infeription to this effect—
Here rejl the men who died for their country, soldiers as will as citizens
—! The fecondmonth of thefecond year oj the liberties of France.
Such gentlemen, is the monument we claim for those generous
Frenchmen, whom a sense of their duty swayed upon this occa
sion. Their wives, their children, their parents, of whom they
were the happiness and the stay, are w.itneffes to the tears we now
shed upon their allies—Be it ours by this last a£t of attention to
perpetuate the remembrance of their glory."
Beside the 45 fail of the line, ordered by the National Assem
bly, there are general orders Tent to all the sea ports for an augmen
tation. In the port of L'Orient they arc to furnifti four addition
al ships of ihe line, and one frigate, besides one ftiip of ths line
now on the stocks.
Late accounts from Turkey by way of Venice fay, that as an ac
knowledgment for the powerful diversion made by the King ot
Sweden in their favour, in the war with Ruflia, the Porte has or
dered the public thanks, to be given to the Swedifti EmbafTador ;
and the Kaimacan, in the n?me of the grand Seignor, has made
him a pielent, in gold com, to the value of thirty thousand dollars
and an elegant horse with a most superb suit of furniture. The
Swedifti interpreter has also received 10,000 dollars—and that the
news of the peace between Austria and Sweden had given the
greatest fatisfa&ion at Constantinople.
SHEPHERD's-TOWN, (Maryland) Nov. j
The late visit of our illustrious President, en
courages a hope that the permanent feat of the Fe
deral Government will be fixed opposite to this
town, on tl>r Maryland fiiore, and that one half
of the ten miles fqnare will be located in Virgin
ia. This event, will, however, depend much on
donations from the inhabitants, to defray theex
pences of the Public Buildings, especially as the
President himfelf has informed us, large offers
have been made at other places on the Patowmac.
When we take into our view the amazing ad
vantages held up to the owners of lands and other
permanent property in this valley, the very Hid
den and unexpected increase in its value, we flat
654
SIYTEMBER t2,
ter oiirfelves that generous fabfcriptions will be
offered ; especially as only a finall part will be
fhorily wanted. Our friends in Maryland are
making every possible exertion to effe«S this im
portant purpose ; and as the inhabitants in tho
Virginia part of this valley will be equally bene
fited, they rcquelt our cordial concurrence and
aid,
Subscriptions are taken in Shepherd's-Town, by Co!.
.ihn Morrow, John Keafley, Esq. Capt. Charles
borrow, and Abraham Shepherd, F.fq. In Mar
tinburg, by Mr. Joseph Riddel. In Lharlejioiun by
Mr. William Cooke, and Mr. John Henderfon.
On Shenandoah river, by Mr. Humphrey Keyes. In
Buljkin fettlemcnt by Mr. John Marke.
Very liberal fubfcriptionshave, within a few
days palt, been obtained in this towi%and its vi
cinity, to be appropriated towards ere&ing the
Federal Buildings, provided the feat of govern
ment be located so as to include Shepherd's-Town
within the diftricft.
GEORGETOWN, Nov. 20.
We hear from Alexandria, that Ths Prefidtnt
of the United States, dined, on VVednefday last,
at Mr. Wife's tavern, with a numerous and ref
pecftable company.
BALTIMORE, Nov. 23
Wednesday last arrived here the brig Friend
ship, William Marihall, master, from Jamaica :
011 the 14th of Odlober last, in lat. 24.30, and
long. 85. weft from London, they fell in with the
Spanish brigantine Noftra Senora de la Concep
tion, Don Domingo Bretos, master, from Trux
illo, bound to the island of Trinidad, in great
distress. Capt. Marfliall, at the requeit of the
master of the Conception, sent his boat on board,
and took the master and crew out of her.
The Hoop Smithfield, Capt. Gardner, is arrived
at Bermuda-hundred from Rliode-Ifland.
From the Maryland Journal.
" While, in Philadelphia, we admire the
progrels of manufactures and naval architecture
—it is observed that one matter of importance has
escaped the attention of that sagacious people—
that is the fifhery.
" Where so many mercantile gentlemen, of
great capitals, conversant in flapping, and well
acquainted with the various branches of commerce
live together, they might easily aflociate and es
tablish a fifhing company, without interfering
with their other plans of commerce—it would
contribute to the'encouragement of the fliipbuild
er and manufacturer—lf well conducted,it would
enrich individuals, and ttrengthen the marine
of the nation..
" There was fucli a company in New-York be
fore the revolution.—lt continued only two years
011 account of the times ; and in that short period
they doubled their capital."
NEWPORT, November 11
The following is communicated to us by Capt. Clark, who
arrived yesterday from Martinique : —
Events which happened the town of St. Pierre, Martinique,
since the 23d Sept. the day ot the arrival of the brig South-Caroli
na, Capt. CYar£, from Rhode-Island; the fame day the embargo
took place on all foreign vefTels—this was done by the Council of
the town of St. Pierre; the embargo was kept on until the sth of
this month : in the mean while, and still continues, diflentions
even to a civil war, on both fides, and the town of St. Pieree
threatened with ruin. The paople are divided into two parties,
the General Damas, the planters, the free mulattoes and negroes,
and slaves all armed ; thofc parties are headed by an AfTembly
Colonial, chosen from the planters, the whole are called Arifto
cr3ts : the other party are the people of St. Pierre, and some in
Fort Royal ; the commerce ot St. Pierre forbids any provisions to
pass the other fide; the general and his army are encamped on a
hill called Gros morne, where they are well fortified: the town
of St. Pierre were obliged to fend to Guadaloupe, St. Lucie, and
Marigalante, for a supply of troops, which were granted: this
town we hope is fufficiently guarded and fortified againfl the ene
my, and we expect to remain m this manner of defence until the
conflitution comes out from the National AfTembly of France.
In this critical situation we remain—not tfee lead commerce is car
ried on on either fide. The General and the AfTembly Colonial
have published a decree, by which all Americans and others are
permitted to go into any port in the island with every kind of
provisions, and to carry away any produce they please in return.
The town of St. Pierre and Fort Royal, on their part, have armed
fomefmall vessels to cruise round the island, in order to prevent
any such veflels goinginto any port but this. A battle was fought
between the two parties on the 25th ult. The pa?r*et party
marched out of Fort Royal in number about 1200, the one half
troops the other citizens, they were very badly provided for such
an attack, having neither guides, nor in proper order, they march
ed towards Lamentine, in two columns, the orje commanded by
Col. de ChabrolU, and the other by Mr. Cocquildes Gomicrc, the co
lumn commanded by the Dernier had four field pieces, this co*»
lumn met with every obflacle almost poflible to mention, such as
the roads cut, large trees laid across, and in pafling through a
swamp were attacked by a large body in ambufb, not one to be
ieen : the battledid not last long, for the two commanders per
ceiving they were, or should be betrayed, ordered a retreat,which
they did, but in much disorder, leaving their four field pieces.,
some ammunition, and a day's provision ; the loss of the Aristo
cratic army is 247 coloured and 4 white men, all killed ; and on
the Patriots fide 25, and 28 taken prisoners ; since which each are
on the defenfive : the number of thef Aristocratic army at the time
of cattle was 3000* There are many planters known to be patri
ots, these fuffer greatly by frequent excursions of negroes and mu
■ attoes, who are continually going about in the country plunder
ing and committing horrid a£ts, and it is unfortunate for them
that the Patriot army cannot give them any afTiftance, being oblig
ed to keep in and about St. Pierre and Fort Royal, who are also
in pofTeflion of Fort Bourbon and Fort Louis, thejtwo Forts in that
place, which take a great number of men to guard. At this timt
are come fron Guadaloupe twenty-two deputies, in order to offer
a mediation between the two parties, but little expe&ation of
peace appears at thisday, the 12th of O&ober.BOSTON, Nov. 12.
It is a remarkable fac r t, in favor of the utility
«f moral chararter, in human affairs,that thethree
perfonaees who appear to conduct or sustain, by
their influence and abilities, the government of
three great nations, are all men of fair private
character. It is hardly neceUaryto mention that
thefethree men are WASHINGTON, in the Uni
ted States—FAYETTE in France—and PITT in
Great-Britain.—
Tho fhallon) politicians flill ?/iay branil,
That public character is all in all,
, Tis sals as ga?uejler's oaths—or air—or hell
Who errs in private never can rule well.
Accounts from Rome, llate, that the noted
Caglioftro is perfectly recovered of his lateindif
polition—and that on a report being spread that
lie was to be enlarged,the government immediate
ly planted double guards upon him to prevent
thepoflibility of his escape.
To the splendid luminArtes of the Temple of
Fame, in the elder world, whose radiance hath
lately been extinguished-—we can, with regret,
add three in the new world, whose emanations
were not lels refulgent. With a FRANKLIN,
who in philuj'ophy ,fcicr,ctx\\A Lgijlation, lhone with
peculiar splendor, one lamp went out. With a
LIVINGSTON, whose philosophic, Jcitntific, and
Isgiflat'tve knowledge rendered him also a blaze
of light, the feconcl lamp expired-—and we have
recently seen the extinction of the third !a?np, in
the death of a BOWDOIN, who flione equally
resplendent with the others, in philosophy, in fai
ence, and in legijlation. But are we without con
folatiun ' No—They lhall yet ihine with undi
miniflied lustre in the temples ofimmortality !
N E W-Y O R K, November 22.
Some years ago ; (in the time of the late war) a citizen of Phi-,
ladelphia, well known forhrs (kill in mechanics as well as in nau
tical matters, set up a ship at Kenftngton near Philadelphia upon
three keels. Some subsequent occurrences, however, prevented
the completion of the design ; old prejudices got thebeftcr of right
reason ; and the pcrfon who afterwards purchased the frame'had
two of the keels taken out, and the middle one left, as usual. Pro
jcftoTs and men of curiosity, were much disappointed at the defeat
of the scheme, as it was ex pelted a vessel upon this plan, would
have had unspeakably superior advantages in holding mind, over the
common models. The idea it seems, has since been taken up in
England, and last year a ship was built in that country, called the
Experiment, with two keels ; and has been found more than to
answer the cxpetted purpose. " I failed (fays the Captain, in a
letter to his owner) from Burnt-Island, June 10th, with the wind
at Weft, which on Sunday fhiftedto the North, blowing cxceflive
hard, with a great running sea—hauled up the (hip close by'the
wind—carried a deal of fail on her to keep her to windward
she was then going five or fix miles per hour, and I found, by my
observations, that (he had made good thecourfe, that was fleered,
notwithstanding the great sea that was on her broadside. I made
.the Naze of Norway the 14th, and arrivedat Gottenburgh the 16th
She carries a very weatherly helm."
These keels, it is said, are so fafhioned as (tho* the ship heels
ever so always to keep a perpendicular position to the ho
rizontal line of the Sea, tlie fame as when she {lands upright; so
that it is evident they inuft take such a powerful hold of the water
under the (hip, as to admit of scarcely any leeway; and where
there is no leeway a vessel, from the natural pressure to lee-ward,
"when close hauled, mull of consequence make the greater head
way. Besides other advantages attendant upon a ship's making no
lee-way, the moll confiderable|are Ift. the being able by this means
to keep an exa£t reckoning, which can never be done, in vessels of
a contrary description, and 2dly, the excellent quality of clawing
«ff lec-lhores in hard gales ; for want of which in the common
•ffru&ure of vessels, many lives and cargoesare loft every year.
Philadelphia, Nov. 27.
A paragraphift in the General Advertiser of
Thursday last, reprobates in very forcible terms,
the mode of voting viva voce, in popular electi
ons, as praiftifed in some of the states. This
abuse, fays he, strikes at thevery root of all good
and free government —poisons the very source
from which it flows.
It is impoflible in this manner of voting, that
elections should be free.—A candidate that has
great wealth and influence, on whom the liveli
hood of many may depend, will inevitably awe
all his dependants to support him. Men who
owe to him their employment, or have received
his bribes, dare not openly oppose him. Even a
man's friends, those who are not dependant up
on him, but are only in habits of intimacy, can
not well refufe to support him, left this (hould
interrupt that intercourse that subsists between
the families. Whenevertoo the popular current
runs violently in any particular diretfiion. it is
hardly fafe to bear up against it. Many who
think differently from thegr.eat body of the peo
ple, will be reluiflantly hurried down,the gene
ral stream. Many, rather than come forward
openly to avow their sentiments, will consent to
■wave their privilege of voting.
We fee !<>metimes, affin Baltimore very lately,
that out of several thousand votes, all, except two
or three, are in favor of the fame persons ; tho
the very connections and intimate friends of the
opposite candidates, must have amounted toacoii
fiderable number—and all those who favored
their interest, to many hundreds.
This method of voting will inevitably intro
duce corruption and intrigue into the ele&ions.
This is undoubtedly one cauf'e of the corruption
of elections in Great-Britain ; and in some parts
of the United State*, where this method is adopt
ed, the eleAions resemble those of England,
They are little better than an auction, where the
poll is set up to public sale, and is struck off to
the highest bidder. „ *
The difference between the flaies that make
use of these two methods, is very ltrikin"-, ;lnc l
places their true influence in the ftromrelf light
—In thole Hates where the mode of vofing is bv
ballot, it would be exceedingly indelicate, and
indtfed would be confidercd as great presumption
and effrontery tor a man to come forward and
hold himl'elf up to the public as qualified for the
higher polls of the government, and endeavor to
procure interest. In some parts of the United
States, where they vote viva voce, men, inltead
of being brought forward by the voice of their
country,or their friends,publicly advertise them
selves, openly solicit interest, and ride about the
country to beg and buy all ,;the votes they can
colled:. And to close this indecent scene, the
candidates while the election is going on,are fre
quently seated upon the hustings, exposed to pub
lic view, to tamper with every ele<aor that comes
to vote
Wealth, where eledlions are free, if not at
tended with some degree of ability, is no recom
mendation to a candidate ; but where the viva
voce method is adopted, it is the great, fouietiines
the only requisite,
To these observations a correspondent adds,that
the pra<3ice of keeping an elec'iion open for a
number of days, and sometimes weeks together,
is attended with many objections ; the mode is
vexatious, and unnecellarily expensive to tliepeo
ple. Opens the door to intrigue and cabals, and
is subversive of freedom.
In many of the states the election is held on
the fame day thtoughout the government.
The acconnts of French affairs which have been
recently Jaid before the public, are so vague, so
extravagant, and contraditfory, that it is very dif
ficult to form any definite ideas of their real si
tuation. The English statements of the excelles
which may have taken place, from former exam
ples, we may suppose are exaggerated. On the
other hand, the enthusiastic admirers of the pro
ceedings of the National Aflembly, as is very na
tural, may think too lightly of the uneafinefles
which prevail, and may attempt to diminish the
real magnitude of the outrages committed in the
provinces. The friends of" the French Revolu
tion, and such is every patriot American, mull
however feel alarmed for the cloud which is im
pending at the present moment, in the form of
paper money.
If the proposed emission of Affignats, or Bank
Notes, could be turned, as by a Itroke of magic,
into solid coin, and diffuled over the faee of the
empire, it would depreciate the value of the pre
cious metals in such manner, as nearly to destroy
their use as amedium ; butfuch a flood of paper
money, we know, by fad experience, mull create
confulion, and every evil work.
The late tragical event at Nanci, in France, is
so variously represented, that one cannot deter
mine where the blame ought to be fixed.
There is undoubtedly a disposition very appar
ent to criminate the condod: ofM. de Bouille,
as harboring unfriendly designs refpecfting the
revolution. On the other hand it appears pro
bable, that ere this, funeral hoaors have been de
creed to the memory ofthofe, of his little army,
who fell in the attack at Nanci. On the whole,
the information derived thro the medium of the
proceedings of the National Aflembly, is alone
to be depended on ; for it may be prefumed,that
as the enemies of the Revolution are at this time
very alert, nine out of ten of the « letters from
Paris," in the Engliih papers, are mere fabrica
tions, without any foundation in truth.
While the patriot and the citizen of the world
cannot but admire, as moral theories, the many
humane and fublinie decisions of the National
AiTemblyof France on the Rights of Man, there
is a solemn pause imposed on their admiration in
contemplating the probable iflue of many of their
resolutions, through the natural versatility, and
obftiijacy ,of mankind. The progress of light
and truth is gradual, where prejudice does not
impede their operation ; but habits and falfe
principles often prove an insuperable barrier to
their force and influence, and always require time,
to be removed, previous to the admission of just
and reasonable conceptions.
To this state of things may perhaps be princi
pally attributed the embarraflments which check
in any ineafure, the completion of the French re
volution : Even in America, it required a num
ber of years to prepare the public mind for its
emancipation from the power of Britain.
While the government of the United States is
adminiftred on its true principles, by men who
merit and poflefs the confidence of the people, as
at present, every attempt to interrupt its opera
tions, or weaken the general confidence in our
civil rulers, whether by designing demagogues,
(licklers for independent State Sovereignty, or
interested afl'ociations of individuals 111 uft prove
abortive—fortho particular persons, in a corner
ot the Union, may raise a clamor, declaim against
public measures, and employ the press as the
medium of inflammatory add: elTes—yet there is a
cool judgement, a laudable spirit of deliberative
candor, which diftinguiflies the people of the U>
655
nited States, and leads them impartially to weigh,
and leisurely to decide, upon every fubjeift ftib
initted to public investigation : They also fully
realize, that the expejice of fupportirig govern
ment is a useless burthen, if an appeal mult be
made in the firlt inftbnee to the whole body of
ihe people in all cases of real or supposed griev
ance. Ihe constitution is express in this point,
and it is certainly more decent, as well as more
consonant to the principles of freedom, to brino
every public injury to that tribunal which is com
petent to doing all poflible justice—the le<nfla
ture of the union. &
Internal refourcesconftitute the linews of Inde<
pendence : The United States are making such
rapid progress in manufactures and agriculture,
that in a few years, they will be able not only to
supply their own demands, buttofurnifh a large
excess of a variety of articles for exportation.—
Our coailing-tradeis already supplied with feve
jal species of goods, which are vended principal-'
ly in the southern States, upon terms, that have
eflentially diminished the importation of funilar
tabricks from Great-Britain—the principal arti
cle now referred to, is coarse linen-cloths : The
encouragement for the railing of hemp isfo great,
that it is not perhaps being too fanguine'to
that the time is. not very remote, when foreign
cordage willceafeto be imported : Iron and Duck
are manufaifiured in great quantities, and in the
highest perfection.
The profpedl that is before us in refpeft to the
carrying-trade, is highly flattering : The difficul
ties and prejudices which have heretofore exist
ed, are daily fubfiding-and vanishing : Our re
putation as lhip-builders is eftabliflied—to this
the natural advantages wepoflefs, that enable us
to build and vicflual cheaper than any other coun
try, must very soon give decided preference to
American bottoms, in all parts of the world: Al
ready have we seen (hips ot great burthen sent
out of our ports—the work of our own country
men, so completely, that there was Icarcely an
imported article in their composition, from the
keel, to the capon maintop gallant-mast-head.
MARRIED] —AtNew-Y'irk, by the Rev. Dr. Rodgcrs Mr.
Prosper Wetmore, to Miss Catheitine McEuen.
LATEST ARRIVALS AT THIS PORT.
Shooner Sally, Florancc, Sr. Thomas,
Penelope, Morgan, Tobago,
— Bess, Spencer, Grenada.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 14f pr. £.
3 pr. Cents 7/4- 7/5.
Dcfdcd 6 pr. Cents 6/3.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates izf6 —12/8.
Indents 7/4
State debts 8/4. 8/5.
Postscript..
BY THE MAIL ARRIVED LAST EVENINQ.
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 27.
Arrived at Bojlon the 17th injl. the Ship Dispatch. Capt. D. Lor ino
in 49 days from Liverpool, who brought papers to the 27th of Sept
from which the following intelligence has been extracted.
LONDON, September 25.
A COUNCIL was held yesterday at the Duke of Leed's office,
Whitehall, when Capt. Mac ponald, a gentleman his paflen
ger, and hisfervant, were examined refpe&ing the treatment from,
the Spanifli commodore. This extraordinary circumstance was
di feu fled with the utmost candour and preciiion.
Immediately aftertheirexamination, exprefles were sent to coU
left every one of the hands who had been in the Trelawney Plan
ter, to be brought to town, for the purpose of having them exa
mined.
Orders have been sent to the different men of war to fend to
town any of the hands who were prefled, and are on board of our
navy.
The Council, after clofwgtheir enquiry, immediately appointed
a Charge des Affaiies to the Court of Copenhagen, who was with
uncommon anxiety, dire&ed to take his departure last night, with
out permitting him to adjust any domestic concerns.
By private letters from Paris, we learn, that M. Necker was
to set off for Switzerland on Saturday last.
A report prevails, that on Wednesday last it was publickly an
nounced at Paris, that the Duke of Orleans had declared in fa
vor of the French King,
Ou the fame evening the people of Paris, to the number of
40,000, colle&ed at the gates of the National Aflembly, and be
ing headed (as was supposed) by the Duke of Or leans, attempt
ed to force an entrance, and persisted with all the violence imagin
able for several hours.
At length,about the hour of three o'clock on Thursday morning,
they were all dilperfed bv the National Guards,and we have not
heard of any material miichief having happened. But the whole
city was in the greatest fermentation when these accounts came
away.
RUMORS.
That the late Resolutions of the House of Delegates in Virginia
on the Aflumption, are regretted by the majority that pa fled them.
That the Land Tax of tha. State will probably be tepealed in
the present feflion of their Aflembly, notwithstanding the late re
solutions against the aflumption.
Also that the Allembly of North-Carolina are moving in the bu»
finefs of Aflumption.
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA.
TEAS
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c.
Of the firft Quality—by Retail,
No. 17,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Ma.'kei-Streau,
or 70 pr. cent.
or 37 do.
33 do »
63J do.
37 d °-
42 de.
f Doubtjul.)Discourses on Davila.
NO. XXIII.— CONTINUED.
Utrumque muUitudo coula.utavcrai.
THIS aflembly was liolden at Paris, in the be
ginning of the year 1562. The Queen, ac
cording to her ordinary maxims, employed her
felfin holding the balance between the two par
ties, and to hinderoue from prevailing over the
other, for fear she should be the victim of the
strongest. The greatest part of the magittrates
concurred in her views ; some perluaded that it
■was imDoffible to restrain lo great a multitude,
animated by a furious zeal for religion, and
other* feeing with regret so much blood shed to
no good purpose. They prepared that famous
Editft of January, which granted to the Hugo
nots, the liberty of conscience, and the liberty of
holding their afl'emblies and preaching their ser
mons, upon condition that they should meet with
out arms, without the cities, in the fields> and in
presence of the judges of the places. The pat U
aments and other tribunals opposed, at firlt, the
execution of this Edidl ; but it was finally regis
tered, upon repeated letters of juflion, (Icaled
commands to do a thing which they had refufed
to do) of thfe King and council. 1 his was a thun
derbolt to the chiefs of the Catholic party. To
bring on aerifis, to force all the Catholics to join
them, and to hinder the execution. of the Edict,
the Duke of Guise, the Coiiftable, all the Cardi
nals, except de Tournon, who was lately dead, the
Jvlarihals de Briffac and Saint Andre quitted the
court, to oppose themselves with all their forces
to the Calviniftical party. * So near was liberty
of conscience at that time, toa compleat and final
eftablifhinent in France/ that nothing but this
violent measure could have prevented it; even this
retreat of all the Catholics would not have Suc
ceeded, without another artifice. They fulhci
ently forefaw, that as long as the good intelli
gence subsisted between the Queen-mother and
the King of Navarre, they fliould have no power
to intermeddle in the government of the king
dom, and that all their efforts would be in vain :
they proposed therefore to break it. Convinced
that the Queen-mother would never change her
plan or her conduct, at least until the majority
of her son ; they thought it would be more easy
to gain upon the undemanding of the king of
Navarre. Their recess enabled them to conduct
with more secrecy this negociation, which requir
ed time and address. D'Ejl, legate of the Pope,
and Manriquez ambaflador of Spain, let into the
secret and entrusted with the conduct of it, eau
ly commenced the conferences, by the interposi
tion of the confidents of the King of Navarre.
This weak Prince, had, or pretended to hare, no
longer the fame inclination for the Hugonots,
since the colloquy at Poifly, where he had i emarked
their variations upon the contested points of faith,
and not having found in Theodore Beza, nor in
Peter Martyr, the fame confidence as he thought,
as they affedted when they dogmatized without,
contradictors, he had consulted Doctor Bandotiin,
equally versed in scriptures aod in controversy.
This theologian had decided the King of Navarre,
to re unite himfelf to the faith of the cnurch,
and to adopt neither the profeffion of faith of
theSwifl Protertants, nor the confeffion of Augf
bourg. His acquiescence in the Edict of January
was less from any inclination to the Hugonots,
than from an opinion the consciences ought not
to he restrained, and that toleration was an infal
lible means of extinguishing the troubles of the
kingdom. As soon as his confidents, already dis
posed to serve the Catholic party, had inforihed
the legate and ambaflador, that he was in this
temper, these last failed not to take advantage
of it, to open the negotiation. In order to unite
to motives of conscience, personal advantages and
temporal iuterefts, they proposed to him to di
vorce his Queen Jane, with a dispensation from
the Pope, because she was an Heretic, and to mar
ry Mary, Queen of Scots, the niece of the Guise f,
and widow of Francis lid, a Princess who united
to the charm? of youth and beauty, the actual
pofleffion of a great kingdom. The King of Na
varre, attached to his children, rejected firmly
this propoficion. They then brought upon the
carpet, once more, the exchange of Sardinia, so
often proposed in vain. This was the delicate
point, which touched him th? molt sensibly. His
hopes indeed, were not very strong ; but this
negotiation not having been wholly broken off,
Manriquez, the Spanish ambaflador, by his ordi
nary artifice, renewed it with so much apparent
seriousness, as to re-animate the dcfires and the
confidence of rhe King of Navarre. Not content
with giving him the strongest aflurances of the
good dispositions of the Catholic King, he pro
ceeded fofar as 10 treat of the means of exchange,
and of the quality of the rents and fervices,which
the King of Navarre should render the crown of
Spain, as acknowledgments of its sovereignty.
They debated these clauses and conditions as se
riously, as if they were upon the point of signing
the treaty. The character of the King of Na
varre, and his inclination to embrace always the
1110 ft honorable and plausible measures, favored
the designs of ihe Catholics. (To b; continued.)
fro*l WEBSTER-i DISSERTATIONS on the ENGLISH IAN
GUAGE.
Of MODERN CORRUPTIONS inthe ENGLISH
PRONUNCIATION.
(CONCLUDED.)
BUT whatever may be the practice in England or Ireland, there
are few in America who have embraced it, as it is e *P Ulnc °
in Sheridan'sDiftionary. In the middle and southern Stales, there
aie are a few, and those well bred people, who have gone far in
attempting to imitate the fafhion of the day.* Yet tie ' Y
the people, even in these States, remain as unfalhionable as ever
and the eastern States generally adhere to their ancient cu om
fpcaking, howei/er vulgar it may be thought by their neig 1 tors,
i Suppose custom therefore to De the jus it norma, the rue o cor
reft speaking, and in this country, it is diredly opposed to the
plan now unde/ confederation.
As a nation, we have a verv great interest in oppojing the in
troduction ot any plan of uniformity with the Brui a ngttagc,
even were the plan proposed perfedly unexceptionable 1 his
point will be afterwards difcuHed more particularly; but I would
observe here, that the author who his the most admirers and imi
tators in th'.s country, has been censured in London, where his
charaftens highly esteemed, and that too by men who are con
fefTedly partial to his general plan. In the critical revic.v of
Sheridan's Dictionary, 1781, there are the following exceptions
to his standard. . .
" Neverthelcfs our author must not be farprized if, in a matter,
in its nature so delicate and difficult, as that concerning which
he treats, a doubt (hould here and there arise, in the minds o t e
most candid critics, with regard to the propriety of his determi
nations. For inftanct, we would wish him to rcconfider, whe
ther in the words which begin with super, luch as Juperjtition,
1 supersede, he is right in directing them to be pronounced /hooper.
Whatever might be the cafe in Queen Ann's time, it doth not oc
cur to us, that any one at present, above the lower ranks, tpeaks
these words with the found of Jh ; or that a good reason can be
given, for their being thus founded. Nay their being thus spo
ken is contrary to Mr. Sheridan's own rule ; for he fays that the
letter J always piefeivcs its own proper found at the beginning of
words."
Here we are informed by this gentleman's admirers, that, in
some instances, he has imposed upon the world, as the standard
of purity, a pronunciation which is not heard, except among the
lower ranks gj people, and dire&ly opposed to his own rule. The
reviewers might have extended their remarks to many other in
stances, in which he has deviated from general pradlice and from
every rule of the language. Yet at the voice of this gentleman,
many of the Americans are quitting their former practice, and
running into errors with an eagerness bordering on infatuation.
Cuftoins of the court and stage, it is confeffed, rule without
resistance in monarchies. But what have we to do with the cuf
toins of a foreign nation ? Detached as we are from all the world,
is itnot poflible tocircumfcribe the powerof cujlom, and lay it, i n
some degree, under the influence of propriety ? We are sensible
that in foreign courts, a man's reputation may depend on a gen
teel bow, and ftis fortune may be loft by wearing an unfafhiona
ble coat. But have we advanced to that stage of corruption, that
our highest ambition is to be as particular in fafhions as other na
tions ? In matters merely indifferent, like modes of dress, some
degree of conformity to local ;uftom isncceflary but when this
conformity requires a facrifice of any principle of propriety or
moral re&itude, singularity becomes an honorable testimony of an
independent mind. A man of a great foul would sooner imitate
the virtues of a cottage, than the vices of a court; and would
deem it more honorable to gain one ufeful idea from the humble
laborer, than to copy the vicious pronunciation of a splendid
court, or become an adept in the licentious principles of a Roches
ter and a Littleton.
It will not be disputed that Sheridan anci Scott have very faith
fully published the present pronunciation of the English court and
theatre. But if we may consult the rules of our language and
consider them as of any authority ; if we may rely on the opinions
of Kcnrick and the reviewers; if we may credit the bell inform
ed people who have travelled in Great-Britain, this pra&ice is
modern and local, and considered, by the judicious and impar
tial, even of the Englifti nation, as a gross corruption of the pure
pronunciation.
Such errors and innovations should not be imitated, because
they are found in authors of reputation. The works of such au
thors (hould rather b'econfidered as lights to prevent out falling up
on the rocks of error. There is no moie propriety in our imitating
the practice of the Englilh theatie, because it is dcfcribed by the
celebrated Sheridan, there is in introducing the manners of
Rochejler or the principles of Bolingbroke, because these were emi
nent characters ; or than there is in copying the vices of a Shylock,
a Lovelace, or a Richard 111. because they aie well dcfcribed by
the masterly pens of Shake[pear and Richardson. So far as the cor
re&nefs and propriety of speech are considered as important, it
is of as much confequencc to oppose the introdu&ion of that prac
tice in this country, as it is to resist the corruption of morals,
which ever attends the wealthy and luxurious stage of national re
finements.
Had Sheridan adhered to his own rules and to the principle of
analogy ; had he given the world a confident scheme of pronun
ciation, which would not have had, for its unliable basis, the
fickle pra6lice of a changeable court, he would have, done infinite
service to the language : Men of science, who wish to prefervethe
regular conftru&ion of the language, would have rejoiced to find
such a refpettjfble authority on the fide of propriety ; and the illit
erate copiers of falhion must have reje&ed faults in speaking,
which they could not defend.
The corruption however has taken such deep root in England,
that there is little probability it will ever be eradicated. The
pra&ice must there prevail, and gradually change tha whole struc
ture of the Latin derivatives. Such is the force of custom, in a
nation where all fafliionable people are drawn to a point, that the
current of opinion is irresistible; individuals must tall into the
stream and be borne away by its violence ; except perhaps a few
pliilofophcrs, whose fortitude may enable them to hold their sta
tion, and whose fenfc of propriety may remain, when their pow
er of opposition has cea-fed.
But our detached situation, local and political, gives us the
power, while pride,policy, and a regard for propriety and uni
formity atnongourfelves, ftiould inspire us with a disposition, to
oppose innovations, which have not utility for their object.
We (hall find it difficult to convince Engliftimen that a corrupt
taste prevails in the Britilh nation. Foreigners view the Ameri
cans with a degree of contempt; they langh at our'manners, pi
ty our ignorance, and as far as example and derifioncan go, ob
trude upon us the customs of their native countries. But in bor
rowing from other nations, we ftiould be exceedingly cautious to
separate their virtues from their vices; their ufeful improvements
from their falfe refinements. Stile and taste, in all nations, un
dergo the fame revolutions, the fame progvfis from purity to cor
ruption, as manners and government ; and in England the pro
nunciation ot the language has ftiared the fame fate. The Augus
tan era is past, and whethef the nation perceive and acknowledge
the truth or not, the world, as impartial fpe£lators, observe and
lament the declension of taste and science.
The nation can do little more than read the works Tmd admire
the beauties of the original authors, who have adorned the pre
ceding ages. A few, ambitious of fame, or driven by necessity,
croud their names into the catalogue of writers, by imitating fotne
celebrated model, or by compiling from the produ£lions oi
genius. Nothing marks taore strongly the dcclenfionof genius in
England, than the multitude of plays, farces, novels and other
catchpenny pieces, which fwcll the lift of modem publications
656
an<§ that host of compilers, who, in the Ta»e for felcQi ng beau,
tics and abridging the labor of reading, disfigure the wovks of the*
purest writers in thenation. Cicero did not waste his clients in
barety reading and felefting the beauties of Dcmojlhcnes; and i n
the days of Addifon, the beauties of Milton, Locke and Shahjpear
were to be found only i n their works. But taste is corrupted by
luxury ; utility is forgotten in pleasure ; genius is buried 111 diflj
pation, or prostituted to exalt and to damn contending fa&ions,
and toamufe the idle debauchees that surround a licentious ftagr.fl
These are the reasons why we Ihould not adopt promiscuously
their taste, their opinions, their manners. Customs, habits, and
language, as well as government (hould be national. America
(hould have her own diftinft trom all the world. Such is the po
licy of other nations, and such mull be our policy, before the
States can be either independent or refpe£hble. To copv foreign
manners implicitly, is to revtrfe the order of things, and begin
our political existence with the corruptions and vices which have
marked the declining glories ot other republics.
♦ There are many people, and pet haps the moji of them in the capital
towns, that have learnt a few common place words, such as foichin,
nachur, virchue and half a dozen others, which they repeat on ail oc
casions ; but being ignorant of the extent of the praflice, they are, in
pronouncing mofi words, as vulgar as ever.
+ Itfhould be remarked that the late Preftdent of Pennsylvania, the
Governor tf New-Jersey, and the Preftdent of New-York college, tuho
are diflinguifhed for erudition and accuracy, have not adopted the En
glish pronunciation.
f N o t between different nations, hut in the fame nation. The man
ners and fafhions of each nation should arise sut of their circumjluucei,
their age, their improvements in commerce and agriculture.
$ Sheridan, as an improver of the langnage, flands among the ftrfi
writers of the Britijh nation, anddefervedly. His leflures on elocution
and on readings his treatises on education, and for the mojl part his
rhetorical grammar, are excellent and almofl unexceptionable perform
ances. In these, hi encountered pradice and prejudices, when they
were found repugnant to obvious Titles of propriety. But in this Dic
tionary hefeems to have left his only defenfible ground, propriety, in
pursuit of that phantom, falhion. He deserted his own principles, as
the reviewers observe ; and where he has done this, every rational nun
should defer t his standard.
|| From this description tnufl be excepted some arts which have for
their-ohjeS, the pleasures of sense and imagination ; as muftc and paint
ing-, andfciences which depend on fixed principles, and not opinion, at
mathematics and philosophy. The former flourifk in the lajl fhjes of
national refinement, and the latter are , always proceeding towards per
fection by discoveries and experiment. Criticism afo jliwrifhes in Great-
Britain : Men read and judge accurately, when original writers ceafc
it adorn the sciences. Correß writers precede jvjl critifn.
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERY
THE Managers as the STATE LOTTERY, prcfent the Public,
wich the First C'afs of the AUJfachufetts semi-annual State Lot
tery, which will commence drawingin the Representatives' Chamber*
in Boston, on the Seventeenth of March next, or fdor.cr, if the
Tickets shall be disposed of.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
2j,oC>o Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
125,000 Dollars, to be paid in the following Prizes, lu'ojefl 10 a
deduQion of twelve apian half per ccnt. for the ufc of the Com
monwealth.
Prizes.
1 of
a
3
6
to .
3®
89
90
ISO
12a
161
203
75 8 5
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks,
25000.
TICKETS may be had of the several Managers, who will
pay the Prizes on demand—of the TREASURER of the Common
wealth—of JAMES WHITE, at his Book-Store, Franklin's-Head o
Court-Street, and at other places as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jon.")
DAVID COBB, I
SAMUEL COOPER, Managers.
GEORGE R. MINOT, j
JOHN KNEELAND, J
Bojlon, July 28, 8790.
PURSUANT to a Resolve or ast of Congress of the lothday.
of May, 1780, relative to the dcftru&ion of Loan-Office Cer
tificates by accident ; notice is hereby given to all whom it may
concern, that on the 2d day of January 1780, the house occupied
by the fublcriber in Market-Street, Philadelphia, took fire and
was consumed, in which was lodged a number of Loan-Office
certificates as pr. lift below, all which were destroyed by the said
fire : Therefore if any person, hath any obje£lion why the said
Certificates should not be renewed, agreeable to the resolves of
Congress, they mud make them before the expiration of three
months, from the date hereof.
Invoice of Loan-Office Certificates dejlroyed in the house oj John Holker
the zddiy oj January
! l Samuel Cooke, jun. New-York, 609
J » ditto. du. 6ot
Dollars, 1200.
1778.
March 13.
No.
1636
1C73
In testimony whereof I Lave signed the present for pub
lication. HOLKER.
New-York, Juty 26th, 1790.
John Francis,
Late of New-York, refpe&fully informs the public, that he*
has opened a
Commodious Boarding Houfe r
N°- 53' Fourth-Street, one door from Race-Street,
WHERE Gentlemen may be accommodated with-
CEKTEEL BOARDING AND LODGING,
By the Week, Month, or Year, and on the moil moderate terms.
Phila. Nov. 20, 1790. [2aw.3m.J
rnwa. i\ov. 20, 1790. L 2 aw.3m.J
|C?' SUBSCRIBERS in the City and State of
Nsiu-Tork—and to the Eaflward as far as Bofiony
willpleafz to pay their arrearages to Mr. P. Wetmore>
at the Pofl-Office, New-York—who viill also receivt
fubferiptionsfor the Gazette. >
The price oj this paper is 3 dolls, pr. ann. and $d. [ingle niynbcr
Dollars.
10000 13
3000 are
2000
1000
500
200
100
6&
40
30
29
10
8
Dollarfy
10000
6000
6000
6oos
5 000
6000
800®
4500
4000
3600
3220
200©
60680
j2500#
Dols