PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENXO, No. 69, MARKET-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHI \
[No. 57, of Vol. ll.]
Discourses on Davila.
No. XXII I. — COM TINUED.
Uttumquc rcgem, fua multitudo coriialutaverat,
IN the beginning of the year i 561, the Queen
mother and the King of Navarre difmilied the
States General, lead the Cu'tfei should excite some
fermentation there. The formation of a conlti
tution and the fettlemeut of religion, were never
the real objects for which they had been called.
It appears not that they were even asked to ratify
the regency in the Queen-mother. So loose and
uncertain was the sovereignty of that great nati
on, that a confufed agreement of the chiefs of
two factions,was thought fufficient for its govern
ment, without any forms or legal solemnities.
The liability el the government, and the securi
ty of the lives, liberties and properties of the
people was proportionate tofuch a fyltem. The
court was still agitated with divisions and diflen-
tions
The Cuifes, who had obtained but a small part
of their pretensions ; that is to fay, much in ap
pearance and little in reality ; accustomed to
rule, and very discontented with the government
and with the Queen, who failed to perform the
promises (he had made to them, watched all op
portunities to regain their firft advantages. The
Prince of Conde,more irritated than ever,kept in
view his ancient projects,and burned with an im
placable delire of vengeance. The Colign'tes were
obstinate to proteifltheHugonois. The two parties
labored to gain the Conftable,but he declared that
he would remain neuter,and attach himfelf only to
the King and the Queen. He was confirmed in
this refolutionby the condutftof the King ofNa
varre, who, fatisfied with the present arrange
ment, lived in good intelligence with the regent,
and thought of nothing but peace. The Admi
ral, his brothers, and the Prince of Conde, flatter
ed themselves that the connection of blood would
draw the Constable, ultimately to their party.
The Cttifet, who knew his attachment to the Ca
tholic faith, and his aversion toCalvinifm, which
he had cruelly perlecuted under Henry lid, des
paired not to gain him, under the pretext of de
fending religion, and exterminating the Hugo
nots. The vivacity of the King of Navarre, in
\irging the Queen to accomplish the promises lhe
had made him in favor ot the Hugonots, contri
buted not a little to keep up this fermentation.
This Princess, fatisfied with having ellabliihed a
kind of equilibrium, which secured her power
and that of her children, dreaded to intercept it,
and avoided all occalions of displeasing the King
of Navarre.
She made use of delays and pretexts, in hopes
that the King of Navarre would relax ; but that
Prince,excited and transported beyond the bounds
of his character, by the continued mitigations of
his brother, and the Admiral, and by the urgent
folicitationsofthe Queen his consort, became the
more ardent in demanding what had been pro
niifed liim. The Chancellor De L'Hop'ttal, whe
ther he judged a liberty of conscience neceflary
to the good of the Hate, or whether he had an
inclination to Calvinism, favored, under hand,
the felicitations of the King of Navarre. He re
strained with all his authority, the severity of
the other magistrates, and exhorted the Queen to
be sparing of blood, to leave consciences in tran
quility, and to avoid every thing which might
interrupt a peace, which had colt so much pains
to eftabli(h. Several of those who composed the
council, supported these instances of the King of
Navarre, and protclled that they ought to be
weary of imbruing their hands in the blood of
Frenchmen : and that it was time to put an end
topunilhments, the fear of which forced so many
good fubjetfts to abandon their houses, families
and country. The Hugonots theuifelves, among
whom were many persons of sense and merit, ne
glerted no cares nor means proper to favor their
cause : and sometimes by writing composed with
art, and fkilfully propagated ; fometimesby pe
titions presented in proper seasons ; and fome
tinies by persuasive discourses of their partisans,
endeavored to impress the great in their favor,
by pathetic paintings of the misfortunes with
which they were opprefled. The Queen was, at
length, obliged to give way tothe sentiments and
authority of so many persons. Perhaps Ihe was
convinced of the wisdom of relaxing a severity,
which flie was in no condition to maintain ; and
of abandoning laws, which they could no longer
Saturday, November 15, 1790.
execute whli rigour. She consented- therefore
to an Edict, rendered by the council on the 28th
of January. This Edict enjoined all magistrates
to release all the prisoners arretted, on account
of religion : to Hop all prosecutions commenced
for this cause ; to hinder disputes upon matters
of faith : forbidding individuals to give each
other the odious appellations of Heretics or Pa
pists : finally, to prevent unlawful allemblies,
commotions, (editions, and maintain concord
and peace in all ther departments. Thus, with
the design of putting an end to punithments and
theeffufion of blood, a motive dilated by religi
on and humanity,Calvinifm was,ifnot permitted,
at lealt tolerated, and indirectly authorised.
More lively co.nteftaions were expected con
cerning the promise which reflected the Cuifes.
The King of Navarre, recalling to the Queen the
secret promises which she had made to him, pre
tended, that in his quality of lieutenant-general
of the kingdom, they ought to deliver to him the
keys of the palace which the Duke of Guise kept,
as grand matter of the King's house-hold.
The Queen, in truth, 110 longer doubted the
attachment of the King of Navarre, and of the
Constable ; but the was not ignorant of the in
creating coldness of the Cuifes, and delayed with
all her artifice the moment of offending them.
She wilhed, on one hand, to manage the Hugo
nots, protected by the Admiral and the Prince of
Conde ; and on the other, the Catholicks, united
under the Duke of Guise and the Cardinal of Lor
rain. These two factions,were like two powerful
dikes, under the shelter of which she enjoyed a
calm. By weakening the Catholicks, she was
afraid of putting the Hugonots in a condition to
give her the law. Sometimes by temporizing,
therefore, and sometimes by granting other fa
vors to the King of Navarre, she endeavored to
divert him from this pretention. But the more
she endeavored to make him lose fight of this ob
ject,the more the Princc pursued it with warmth.
Finally, the Queen, thatflie might not cleftroy
the harmony she had taken so much pains to el
tabliih, commanded the captains of the guards,
no longer to carry the keys of the palace to the
grand master of the King's lioufe-hold, but to the
lieutenant-general of the kingdom, to whom this
prerogative belonged of right. This proceeding
irritated the Duke of Cuifc, but infinitely more
the Cardinal of Lorrain, his brother, less because
they considered it as an affront, from which the
regulation of the council of regency would have
screened them, than because they saw clearly,
that with the consent of the Queen, the King of
Navarre aspired to distress and destroy thein.
They knew very well that they were accused of
listening to nothing but their interest and ambi
tion, and feeing themselves no longer able to
prevail in this private quarrel with the Princesof
the blood, who difpofedof all the forces, as well
as ot the royal authority, they diflembled their
resentments, and complained of nothing but the
liberty of conscience, which had been tacitly
granted to the Hugonots, covering thus with the
specious -veil, and the pretext of religion, their
palfions and personal interests. Thus the discords
of the great confounded themselves insensibly
with the differences of religion, and the fa<flions
of the Princes, quilting the name of malcontents
and Guifards, to assume the more imposing titles
ot Catholics and Hugonots, they exerted them
selves with the greater fury, as they disguised it
under the names of Zealand of piety.
THE UN-NATURAL SON
PHILIP THICKNESSE, Esq. late Governor of
Landguard Fort, and author of the celebra
ted travels through France and Spain, and other
fentiinental works of merit, has the misfortune to
have a natural son (in other refpet-ts veryun-na
tural) who affeifts to flight and be alhamed of his
father. This son, who, in the maternal right,
has aflumed the name and title©fGEOßGETou
chet, Baron Audley, and enjoys a very consi
derable estate in England, has, upon all occasions,
manifefted the greatest contempt of his father,
and frequently pafles him in the street, mounted
in his carriage, without paying the least compli
ment or attention to the old gentleman on foot.
Thelaft time Mr. Tkicknejfe returned from Spain,
being, as usual, quite out of cash, and in great
necessity, he applied to the son for relief, which
was peromtorily and brutjflriy refufed. In this
emergency he instantly hired a little ft all in one
637
(To be continued.)
[Whole No. 161.]
of tlie mod public flreets of London, and put up
a sign over the door with a boot and shoe painted
ihereon, and the following words in large gilt
letters : BOOTS AND SHOES MENDED HERE
BY PHILIP THICKNESSE, FATHER TO LORD
AUDLEY. It had not hun£ there twelve hours
before a billet was sent, inclosing a bank note
for a hundred guineas, requesting, that in consi
deration thereof, the lign might be instantly ta
ken down and burnt. A sense offrame will
operate upon the feelings of a bad man -when he is be
come entirely callous to those of nature.
From WEBSTLR's the ENGLISH LAN
GUAGE.
Of MODERN CORRUPTIONS In the ENGLISH
PRONUNCIATION.
(CONTINUED.)
however is but a small part of the inconfiftcucy. In
two other particulars theabfurdity is still more glaring.
i. The modern refiners of our language distinguish two founds
>f u long ; that of yu and oc ; and use both without any regr.rd to
-atin or Saxon derivation. The diftin&ion they make is founded
)n a certdin principle j and yet I question whether one of a th«u
and of them ever attended to if. After most of tfte confonanrs,
■hey give u the dipthongal found of eu ; as in blue, cube, due, mute ;
but after r they almost invariably pronounce it oo ;as rule, truth,
'ue, rude, fruit. Wh) this diftindion ? If they contend for the
Saxon found of u, why do they not preserve that found in true,
rue, truth, which are of Saxon original ; and uniformly give u its
Roman found, which is acknowledged on all hands to have been
00, in all words of Latin original, as rule, mute, cube ? The fate >s»
they mistake the principle on which the diftinttion is made ; and
which is merely accidental, or ariles from the cafe of speaking.
In order to frame many of the confooants, the organs are pla
ced in such a pofuion, that in pa fling from it to the aperture nc
ceflary to articulate the following vowel or dipthong, we iijfcn
fibly fall into the found of te. This in particular the cafe with
thole consonants which are formed near the feat of e ; vir. k and
g. The closing of the organs forms these mutes ; and a very
{mall opening forms the vowel e. In palling from that clofc
comprcflion occasioned by k to the aperture neceflary to
form any vowel, the organs are neceflarily placed in a situation to
pronounce ee. From this single circumstance, have originated the
most barbarous diale&s or Angularities in speaking £ngli(h,
which offend the ear, either in Great-Britain or America.
This is the origin of the New-England kcow, keoward ; and of
the Englilh keube, acknfe, kciud and geuidc.
There is just the fame propriety in one praflice as the other,
and both are equally karmonious.
For similar reasons, the labials, m and p, are followed by e :
In New-England, we hear it in meow, ficowcr, and in cireat-
Britain, in meutc, peurc. With this difference however, that in
New-England, this pronunciation is generally confined to the
more illiterate part of the people, and in Great-Britain it prevails
among those of the firft: rank. But after rwe never hearthe fonnd
of c : It has been before observed, that the most awkward coun
tryman in New-England pronounces round, ground, brown, as cor
re&ly as men of the firft education ; and our faftiionable speak
ers pronounce u after r like 00. The reason is the fame in both
cases : In pronouncing r tbe mouth is neceflarily opened (or rather
the glottis) to a position for articulating a broad full found. So
that the vulgar singularities in this refpe&, and the polite refine
ments of fpe.aking, both proceed from the fame cause ; both pro
ceed from an accidental or careless narrow way ot articulating cer
tain combinations of letters ; both are corruptions of pure En
glilh ; equally disagreeable and indcfenfible. Both may be easily
corrected by taking more pains to open the teeth, and form full
bold founds.
2. But another inconsistency in the modern pra&ice, is the in
troducing an c* before the second found of u as in tun ; or rather
changing the preceding consonant; for in nature, rapture, and
hundreds of other tis changed into tjh ; and yet no per
son pretends that t/, in these words, has a dipthongal found. On
the other hand, Sheridan and his copier Scott, have in thefc and
similar words marked u for its lliort found, which is universally
acknowledged to be simple. I believe no person ever pretended,
that this found of ucontains the found of * or y ; why then should
we be directed to pronounce nature, natyur ? Or what is equally
absurd, natjhur ? On what principle is the t changed into a cam
pound conionant ? If there is any thing in this found of u to war
rant this change, does it not extend to all words where this found
occurs ? Why do not our (landard writers direfl us to fay tjhun for
tun, and tjhumble for tumble ? I can conceive no reafoD which will
warrant the pronunciation in one cafe, that will not apply with
equal force in the other. And I challenge the advocates of the
prattice, to produce a reason for pronouncing natjhur, raptfhur,
captjhur which will not extend to authorize, not only tfhun, tfliurv,
for tun, turn, but also fatjkal {or fatal, and immortjhal for immortal.t
Nay, the latter pronunciation is actually heard among some very
refpe&able imitators of falhion ; and is frequent among the il
literate, in those states where the tjku's are more faftiionable. How
can it be otherwise ? People are led by imitation; and when
those in high life embrace a lingularity, the multitude, whoaie
unacquainted with its principles or extent, will attempt to imitate
the novelty, and probably carry it much farther than was ever in
tended.
When a man of little education hears a refpe&able gentleman
change t into tjh in nature, he will naturally be led to change th(t
fame letter, not only in that word, but -wherever it occurs. This
is already done in a multitude of instances, and the practice if
continued and extended, might eventually change/, in all cases,
into tjh. fTo be continued. J
* Lowth condemns such a phrase as, 11 the introducing an t" and
fays itfhould be, " the introducing of ant.** This is but one instance
of a great number, in which he has rejefled good Englifk. In this fx
tuation, introducing is a participial noun ; it may take an article be-
Jore it, like any other noun, and yet govern an objettive, like any trav-
Jitive verb. This is the idiom of the language : but in mofl cases, the
writer may vfe or omit of, atpleafure.
+ / mujl except that reajon, which is always an invincible argument
with weak people, viz. "It is the practice of fomegreat men." This
common argument, which is unanjwerable, will also prove the propriety
of imitating all the polite and deteflable vices ojthe great, which are now
unknown to the little vulgar ojtfris country.
04$oTHE POWER OF BEAUTY.
They cty'd, no woudcr Inch crlcftt.tl charms,
For nine lung ycari have let the workl m arens ;
What winning.graces ! what inajeftic mei» !
She moves ar'goddefs, and Ihe looks a ijueeir.
Pope's Homer.
MADAM Dacier,-\* ho was perhaps the most
learned and sensible woman that trance
ever produced, has oblerved, that the above
{lands upon record, the greatest compliment ever
paid to beauty ; and thai so long as Homer ihall
be read, it will remain a distinguished monu
ment of the gallantry of heathemfh umes anil
crey hairs. Madam Dacier is perfectly right, if
f-very thing he duly considered ; far Priam, who
was the king of Troy, was, at the time I am
speaking of, a very old man, had most of his lons
killed'in that ever memorable liege, and repeat
edly ran the rifle of loling his own life, and all
the Trojan chiefs and counsellors likewise, who
were equally old with liimfelf, had, like him,
loft many of their fonsand relations in the war ;
and like him too fuffered under all the dangers
and diltrelles of a nine years siege, were, after
all, the very men to pay the above great compli
ment to Helen ; who was ail alien, had been the
sole cause of the war , and without any other sti
pulation than that of giving her up, would have
put an end at once to the war and all its cala
mities. Rather, however, than agree to such a
condition, and part forever with so much beauty,
these gallant old men determined, feeble as they
were, and harrafl'edas they had been not to give
her up, though that might be, as the end it
actually proved to be, the deftru<ftion of Troy
and of themselves ! how justly then may we fay
here, what Dryden has so happily applied else
where. None but the brave deserve the juir.
Phrynne,ihe Venus-formed, judge-bewitching
Phryntte, is another, and if polfible, stronger in
stance of the all powerful influence of beauty;
and proves a position ascurious as.itis important,
that what is spoken to theear, howevereloquent,
is not near so effectually beautiful, as what is
shewn to the eye. This lady was remarkable for
having a face exquisitely beautiful, and a perfou
ofthe molt exatft and perfect symmetry, rnfomuch,
that all the statues of Venus were then made af
ter her njuch admired, but, universally allowed,
matchless model. In consequence, however, of
repeated riots having been raised, and some
lives loft, at her apartments, an attion was
brought agrinft her by order of the court of A
thens, and the great Demoflhcncs that thunder
bolt of eloquence, retained against her. Hype,
rides, who was the second orator of his time, and
Phrynne's particular favourite, immediately 011
hearing of the prosecution, undertook, with a
generolity as prompt as it was noble, to plead her
cause, unfeed, and even unsolicited : And when
the trial came on, he endeavored, by every argu
ment that fuchtranfcendentbeauty|could inspire,
tobringhis fair client off. Finding, however, at
lengthy that notwithstanding all he could fay,
Demo/lhenes, by an impaflioned impetuosity of
declamatory eloquence, alike,irrefiftable with the
■world-overwhelming torrent at the general de
lude, bore down all before him, and that the
court, in consequence thereof, and of the facts
being fully proved, was just going to give judg
ment against her ; Hyperides, effeitually to l'often
the judges without fayingone word more, turned
round to his fair friend, and uncovering her
neck, displayed, at once, one of the fineft bosoms
that eyes ever beheld ! Struck with such amazing
such bewitching beauty, the hoary and hitherto
inflexible judges, who had determined but the mo
ment before, to atft up* to the sanguinary spirit
of their laws, fliew themselves the rigid dispen
ser* of severe justice, and agreeable thereto, pass
upon her the last dreadful lentence, found, in an
instant, all their firmed resolves (hook to the
ground. Won over by such irrefiftable and all
conquering charms, they as with one voice, rose,
declaring, that the ruffian hands of no execution
er fliould ever touch, much less destroy such ini
mitable, such ineffable beauty and loveliness, im
mediately acquitted her, ainidft the air-rending
acclamations of the surrounding multitude, fran
tic for the moment, with repeated bursts of the
most immoderate joy.
So love was beauty (not Mujic) won
the cause. -
* The laws of Athens were so Ihockingly sanguinary as to draw
this fcvcrc sarcasm from one person, that they were written more
with blood than with ink ; another person, alluding to the tra
mer of many of them, whose names is Draco > and which is the
I.atin for a dragon, observed that they were the laws rSther of a
dragon than of a man ; and a third, understanding they punilhed
with death every cvitne, even the smallest, declared, that they
were fitter for the regions of Pandemonium, than a country in
habited by human beings.
f From a London Magazine.)
REMARKS ON FAMILY GOVERNMENT.
THAT great Philolbplier, The Marquis of Bec
caria, has said, with great truth, that good
government is begun in the cradle; that it is in
vain to make laws to punish vice, unless the riling
generation, is trained up in the love of virtue.
The great defect in family government, general
for eat,« If their children ob-
SSS;2|f t severe nceandnge, each
teniae. th I C t;Therefore,
hearinil of their lcrvunts* .
by a very serious man, that he had rather do that
which could not be approved of, three times e
fore others, than once before his children.
The family uneasiness which injures the edu
cation of children, might be avoid*d lay a little
prudence and caution. It is much to be wonder
ed at, that parents do not use more prudence in
this refpeifl, for the promotion of their own com
fort and happiness, it they do not feel a necessity
for it, on the principles of good family govern,
ment. There certainly is no mode of lite, in
which happiness can be so well insured, as in the
nuptial state.
My friend Phiianthropos, lived long in a
finele state : He was no enemy to matrimony :
He met, while young, a series of misfortunes,
which gave him aproperfenfeof himfelf—of the
world—and the enjoyments of life : He knew how
to place a proper estimate upon every thing—
but thought liis circumstances would not admit
of the expence of a family :—His heart was open
and generous : He never turned aside from dis
tress—and when he had nothing else to bestow,
he o-ave a tsar : He was afliduous 111 business
honest in his dealings—and constant in his ft udies.
Then why thould not the world esteem him ?
Philanthrotos had lived beyond the age of
forty, when he became acquainted with Serima,
who had lived but a few years short of the age of
my friend. She had seen uncommon afflictions
in her day : Friends, falfe or unlkilful had mis
led her path of life, and her heart had been
wounded by the arrows which were thrown for
her defence. These trials naturally tended to
foften a heart too perceptible ofwoe,andto turn
her attention from the most exatft and beautiful
form of features, to the cultivation of her mind.
Upon a short acquaintance, their hearts, taught
by adversity, and elevated by pure sentiment,
beat in unison, and became united before they
were aware of their situation : They were soon
married
It is a great mistake in those who suppose that
the pleasures of the married (Vate depend upon
youth. Many years after Phuahthropos and
Serima were married, herefted under the (hade
of his cherry-tree, and wrote the following Son
net, which ftiews his affeistion and happiness.
SONNET.
THE ROSE LATEfDISCOVXR-ED.
44 AS Damon ftroll'd along the mead,
He fpy'd a charming flower;
The Cummer's green was in it* Jade,
And gone the vernal Ihower.
u Sweet child of nature, lovely rose,
Exclaim'd the ravifh'd swain;
Bled be the turf on which it grows,
How blest its native plain !
44 Why did I not in prime of May,
Observe with friendly eye,
Thy charms unfolding to the day.,
Thy rising beauties spy ?
•* Close by thy fide this faithful arm,
Had watch'd thy youthful bloom ;
No scorching heat or beating storm,
Had on thy beauties com«.
44 But now alas ! the weary fun,
His blazing car has driv. o,
'Till half his yearly toil is done,
And now descends the Heavens.
4t Yet still thy fragrance fills the vale,
It reigns unrivall'd there ;
From thee, the winds their health exhale,
From thee their sweetness bear.
41 No cloud malignant on thy head,
Its noil'ome drops (hall spill;
Or noxious vapours on thee (hed
Their damps, thy bloom to chill.
4 ' As summer's heat forfak.es the year,
And winter's froft comcs on ;
Thy fate I'll watch with anxious care,
And live for thee alone."
The example and precepts of Philanthropos
and Serima, ingraft prudence and discretion on
every a&ion of their children, and domestics :
As their offspring rife into life, they are admi
red and beloved by, their neighbors ; and from
thence arises mcxpreifible bappinefs to their pa
rcnts - AMINTOR.
(From the Independent Chronicle.)
DOMINICA, September 10.
Last Sunday arrived here, a small veflel from
Martinique, with upwards of fifty refugees on
board, foine of whom are said to be of the irioft
refpecftable characters and connections in that
island. Their flight has been occasioned by ano •
ther change in the order of things there. This
is said to be the fifth revolution in the government
of that island in thecourfe of a few months.
The Governor Monf. Damas, was confined to
the limits of fort-Royal whcu the veflel came
638
away ; and it is fTnce reported, that he has es
caped to Grenada, from whence he is preparing
for his immediate departure for France ; as is al
so a government brig now in this harbor. All
the government vellels in that island were order,
ed to depart immediately, on the inhabitants get
ting poHeffion of the forts. This new change
has fortunately been effected without that scene
ofblood/lied and niaflacre which that island has
so often experienced since the commencement ofT
the French revolution.
N E W B E R N, Oifl. 21
Letters from Guadaloupe mention, tliat intel
ligence had been received from Martinique which:
mentioned the soldiers having joined, the Inha
bitants; that they had taken pofleffion of Fort-
Royal ; that the general had abfronded ; that
400 men were in puvfuitofhim ; and that the pre
sent diftui bances there exceeded any thing they
had experienced before.
N EW-Y ORK, November y
ExtraH of a letter from a capital planter in South'
Carolina, to a gentleman in New-Tori.
We planted 62 acres : The season in. which a.
part of it was planted, proved unfavorable, where
by we loft about 27 by the grass, which complete,
ly destroyed it ; the remaining 35 were very
good. We prepared for market by the 20th of
Jan. 12000 wt. and there was as much remaining,
to be prepared to make the whole quantity about
32000 wt. fucbat lealt was the opinion of our ma
nager—and he has hitherto been within the mark
in all his accounts of our crops. From this state
you will fee how vastly valuable the article of heinpr
may be made to this country —for after, it is sown,
you lock up your field until it is time to pull.it,
and if sown early, it does not interfere with your
crop at ajl. We, as you may suppose, intend to
continue it."
When the late Mr. Holt (printer) firfl set up a
newspaper in this city, one of his earliest sub
scribers happened to be a person from the vici
nity of Albany, who was rich, but well known
to be of a narrow penurious disposition. At the
end of the firft year the printer sent him the ac
count of the yearly fnbfcription, requesting that
it might be discharged by the firft opportunity.
No answer however came ; and things ran on in
the fame manner for the term of eighteen years,
at the conclusion of which time, Mr. Holt, as may
be well supposed, being out of all patience with
his ciiftomer, had the whole amount made out
and sent to him, adding at the foot thereof, that
if it was not paid, he would discontinue fending
any more newspapers' The subscriber having
read over the account when prefeiited, exclaim
ed with a difdainful sneer, What an ungrateful
man have 1 to do with ! I was one of the very Jirji
that encouraged his paper by subscribing, and this is
the return he makes me ! y
BENNINGTON, (Vermont) o€h 25.
His Excellency Governor ROBINSON's fpcech oa quitting .the
supreme magistracy.
Gentlemen of the Council and House of Representatives,
AT the last annual ele&ion of the officers of this govern"
ment, there was no choice made by the freemen of the Supreme
Magistrate of ihe State ; it was therefore the duty of the Council
and House of Representatives, by their joint ballot, to elect some
person to that office ; it was the pleasure of the two houses to ho
nor me withthe appointment, of which I cheerfully accepted, and
am cortfcious to myfelfthat I have faithfully discharged my duty
in the execution of that trust.
It appears from the present cle&ion, that the freemen hav j
given their futfrages in favor of his Excellency Governor Chit
tenden, I heartily acquiesce in the choice, and (hall, withthe
greatest fatisfa&ion, retire to private life, where I expe£fc to en
joy that peace which naturally results from a consciousness of hav
ing done my duty.
The freemen have an undoubted right, when they fee it for the
benefit of the community, to call forth their citizens from be
hind the curtain of private life, and make them their rulers, and
for the fame reason to dismiss them at pleasure and ele£l others
in theix place, this privilege iseffential to all free, and to repub
lican governments. Asa citizen I trust I (hall ever feel for the
interest of the State : the confidence the freemen have repeatedly,
placed in me ever fvnce the fir ft formation of government,
under additional obligation to promote their true interest.
Fellow-citizens of the legislature I with you the benediction of
heaven in the profecutien of the important business of the preficnt
feflion ; that all your consultations may terminate for the glory of
God and the intertft of the citizens of this State, and that both
those in public and private life may so conduct, in the several
fphereg in which God in his providence (hall call them to ast, as
that, when deathihall close the scene of life, we may each of us
have the fatisfa&ion of a good conscience and meet the approba
tion of our JUDGE.
Answer of the House of Representatives to Governor Rob i n son's
ALTHOUGH the fuffrages of the freemen of Vermont have re
placed his Excellency Governor Chittenden in the chair of govern
ment, for the year ensuing, yet their representatives in general as
sembly are happy in having an opportunity of exprcfling their
entire fatisfaftion with your late administration ; and beg you
to accept their warmest thanks for the Cervices you have rendered
them.
In republics like ours, every citizen has an equal right to be
defied into the firft office of government: Upon this principle,
we flatter ourselves you will feel no regert in retiring from office,
and mixing with your fellow citizens, till they ftiall again call you
up to public view.
In your retirement, we wish you the-full enjoyment of all the
happiness and tranquility which result from domestic life, and a
consciousness of having discharged every duty both as a private
citizen and a chief magistrate with faithfulnefsand integrity.
2 have the honor to be
with great refpeft, your excellency's
inoft obedient humble fervaut,
(by order of house)
GIDEON OLIX, Speaker.
speechPhiladelphia, Nov. 15.
The following RESOLUTION has pajfed the Honfe
(■of Reprtftntatives of th: State of Virginia, novj in
\J4flion. Resolved, That so much of theaift,
entitled an av!t, making provision for the debt of
.-Hie United States, as limits the right of the Uni
ted States ill their redemption ofthe public debt,
is dangerous to the rights, and subversive of the
siuerelt ofthe people, and demands the marked
itlifapprobation of the General Assembly.
A letter from Hifpaniola mentions, There ye arrived here,
from the Ohio country, by the way of the Miilitiopi, near one
<houfand barrels of flour, made in that country. What avenues
of commerce, will yon, Americans, not explore !
On Monday, the ift Nov. the D»ftri& Court of the United States
for Rhodc-Mland Diftrift, was opened in Providence, before the
Hon. Judge Mar chant ; thi re being no business, the Court was ad
journed fine die.
The Hon. Theodore Fojler is a Senator of the United
States, by the Lfgidatureof R iodc-Ifland.
Jonathan J. Hazard and John S. Dexter, Efq'rs. at appointed
Commiflioners by the Legidatureof K hode-1 (land, to fettle the ac
counts of that State with the United States.
Turfday l»ft arrived in town from Bolton, Samuel Ally me
is, £fq. Sccrctary of the Senate of the United States.
Ycllerdav afternoon the Vice President of the United States
*rrrived in this city, from New York. AHo.the Hon. William
Smith, member ofthe Houfc of Representatives of the United
ates, from South Carolina.
The eftablifliment of the federal government
compleated the revolution of America :—Before
this event, it was problematical whether our
emancipation from the sovereignty of Britain,
would prove a curse or a blelling ; but now we
behold the accomplishment of the wi(hes of all
good men, the enlightened patriots and sages of
the world, in the erection of a popular and ener
getic government on the basis of liberty.
Had our dear bought freedom been left to the
feeble protection of that rope of sand the old
confederation, or depended on the Slate govern
ments, wliofe rivalries jealousies and lbvereign
ties would have ptoved a perpetual fourceofani
tnofity, and probably ended in civil wars and
a diflolution of the union ; liberty would have
hovered over the separate States for a time, but
like Noah's dove, findig no reft for the sole of
her foot, she would finally have deserted the
States forever.
As there is 110 civil liappinefs, or security for
perron or property, without government, (a there
is no other fafeguard for liberty, but in the pro
tection of just and equal laws :
An idea however had taken place in the minds
of many of the citizens of the United States pre
vious tothe adoption of the new government, and
is Hill retained by some perrons, that because a
sense of common danger, and the force of good
habits, contracted by a long fubmiflion to rule and
order, before the revolution, had had the effect
of laws in an extraordinary manner during the
war—that therefore the good sense and enlight
ened understanding of the citizens of America,
•would forever preclude the neceflity of a firm and
energetic government :
Experience however, soon taught us the con
trary ; and that, " like causes, will invariably
produce like effects"—perhaps in no future exi
gencies of this country, will its rights and privi
leges be in greater jeopardy, than they were just
before the adoption of the new constitution.
Notwithstanding all that has been said of the
superior light and information which the inhabi
tants of the United States pollefs, it is a fact, that
so far as we have been placed in circumstances
similar to those of other nations, the predominant
patlions of human nature have had, in a degree,
a limilar operation. It is undoubtedly true, that
we really enjoy greater advantages than any of
the nations of the world which have preceded us :
we have, it is equally true, improved these ad
vantages to the belt purposes ; but in no instance,
equal to that of establishing a general govern
ment over the Union. This government is pre
dicated on the principle of the immortal exiltence
of the human pallions. To refine, check and re
gulate these paflions, ought to be the scope, design
and ultimate end of all human lttws, as it certainly
is of the divine. _ #
Every government is liable to internal (hocks
and commotions—free governments more so
haps than others ; this by no means shews the
vnntility of government, any more than the per
nicious quality of light can be argued from its
being offenfive to weak eyes—but it fully evin
ces one important truth, which is, that govern
ment, in order to being fully competent to eve
rf exigence of the public, should poflefs powers
paramount to the influence of ever} individual,
or particular body of men, who may conceive
their interest is connected with subverting the
social compadt, or throwing the community into
confufion.
The United States, so long as they may thus
be denominated with propriety (and we trust
their union will be co eval with time) have the
most pleasing profpeifts before them ; every event
which unfolds itfelf 011 the great theatre of the
old world, however unpropitious to the nations
immediately concerned, is interefling, and af
fords some ufeful leflon to the people of Amcri
daces the revolution of this country in a
more important light, and our truly eligible cir
cumstances in a more conspicuous {ituation.
The recent tranfadions in France may serve
to shew the importance of that political informa
tion which is so generally diffufed in-the United
States—this led us to colled; as to a center the
■mifilim of America, which produced a constitu
tion at once, that is the admiration of the world.
In France they have yet much to do after near
two years deliberation—prejudices to beamufed,
obviated, and by degrees, to destroy—and light
and information to dilfufe among the great body
of the people ; they appear to get their consti
tution by paragraphs and fecftions, and when
completed, it is a moot point whether the peo
ple will be pleased with it or ndr.
In the United States, a greater proportion of
the governed—from judgment and fenriment
are attached to the new constitution, than per
haps ever apptoved of the exiiting government
in any country whatever. This is not attended
to by foine persons, who when rhey get a small
circle to encore their antlfederal fentitaents, con
ceive they have the whole world about them.
The ancient Romans were a warlike people—
and without doubt derived much of that eclat
which historians have so liberally bestowed up
on their character, from a series of brilliant in
cidents which accumulated through a long pe
riod of warlike enterprizes—thofe incidents ta
ken individually in with thelapfe of
time in which they occured, would make but a
solitary appearance in the history of a modern
nation.—The Romans derived their power and
wealth from their conquests s war was their de
light—and plunder the replenifiier of their trea
fury. How much the reverse of this is the true
policyjof the United States ! It is to cultivate peace
among tliemfelves, and with all the world. Peace,
virtue, freedom and government will accelerate
our progress in arts, manufactures and com
merce, in a ratio which eludes all calculation or
comparison ; these will fnrnifh the most solid
materials of national happiness, and will carry
the American States to higher degrees of honor,
power and refpeiftability, and with greater ra
pidity too, than the sword ever carried the- Ro
man Empire.
Peace o'er the States, thy facrrd influence (hed,
May thy bit 11 power strike ev'ry fatlion dead ;
Here fix thy feat—make every heart thy throne !
For happiness, O pcace, is all tlfy own.
It appears by fotnc recent ftritflures in the pa
pers, that certain colleges of the United States,
have grievoully offended by presuming to confer
honorary degrees on foreigners of diltindtion in
the literary world, particularly on some of our
illustrious allies ; Prelidents and principals of
colleges and universities in the United States, be
on your guard—let your D. D's. apdyour L. L.
D's. remain dormant, or the- lash of satire will
fall upon you—for while you may only intend
to diftinguifli by such literary additions the
friends of hnmanity, and the patrons and exem
plars of l'cience, and thus refledi honor on your
own judgment, an aristocracy may spring up, to |
monopolize all the benefits and bleflings of learn
ing.—Alas ! alas ! what will this world come to —
when under the malk of literary honors, that
imp aristocracy is creeping in upon us ? fciencc
retire to thy cloiltered residence ! and prefutne
no more to obtrude thyfelf upon the notice and
refpedk of the world ; for thy honors and rewards
will eventually overturn the liberties of mankind !
All the variety of foil and climate which is
found on the face of the globe is comprised in
the territories of the United States ; nature has
done every thing on her part to render the Uni
ted States more fully competent to supporting an
independent empire, than any other country
whatever ; we enjoy among ourselves every re
source of revenue, convenience, pleasure and
profit; our country is filled with men wliofe ha
bits, manners and constitutions are adapted to
the particular regions they inhabit—our wants
are mutual—and our language being the fame,
an intercourse is thereby facilitated, extensive
beyond example, and advantageous to the high
est degree ; an intercourse that is daily encreaf
ing, and adding strength to the bond of union
which connetfts every part of the Empire—and
notwithstanding the power of prejudice, and the
weakness or wickedness of the partizans of dil
cord, this important truth is daily made more
apparent, that the interests of the several States
are compatible and ivfeparable.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
funded debt.
6 pr. Cents »4/• V- £
3 pr. Cents 7/2 'Ji
Defered 6 pr. Cents 5J9 of-
UNFUNDED DEPT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 12/I—l2/4.
Indents "A' r7/3-
Slate debts Bf. 6/3.
LATEST ARRIVALS AT THIS PORT.
Brig Katy, Hall, Charleston.
Schooner' Hawk, Holland, Newbury-Port.
Alice, Greenman, Providence.
Sloop Mar.cy, Gardner, N. Carolina.
Nancy, Thomson, New-York.
Lively, Hale, Rhode-Hland.
Ppceiiix, Curies, Maryland.
639
or 70 pr. cent,
or 36J do.
30 do*
61$ do.
36' i do.
d °-
Postscript.
i3Y THE MAIL ARRIVED YESTERDAY
PORTSMOUTH, £AVaOA. 30.
T THURSDAY last arrived in this port, the fliip Char lotte,
Capt. Mendum, in 36 days frefcn Biddeford. By the Char*
lotte, we have lcceived papers to the fourteenth of September,
from which we have iele&ed the following :
CONSTANTINOPLE, July 8.
The ratification of the treaty concluded between our court and
Pruflia being not yet arrived, feverai murmurs are ptevalent ; and
notrwithftanaing the alTurances of M. de Cnobbledyrff of the fa
vorable intentions of his master, the of Romeiia,who
signed the treaty, has been deposed, and the governor of
appointed his fuccclTor.
Frequent councils are held, composed of the great officers ot
state ; and the party who favor a general pcacc grow flronger and
ftrouger.
The Plague rather increases in this city and neighbourhood,but
is entirely ceafcd at Smyrna.
MADRID, (Spain) August 20.
Our letters from Tangier* mention with horror the cruelties c*
ercifed by the new Emperor of Morocco upon his fubjetts.
BERLIN, Aug. 31
Wc can fcatcely credit the report of preliminaries of peace hav
ing been signed between Sweden and Ruflia. If they have, it is
certainly without the knowledge of our court. It is no longer
than last week, our Minister Count Blumenthal drew for a million
of dollars on our Treasury, which was paid into one of the prin
cipal banking-houses here, with orders to remit the sum as fooi\
as poflible to Sweden.
LONDON, Sept. 11
The letters received yesterday from persons of the best informa
tion and authority in Paris give us the strongest reason to believe
that a civil infurre&ion is at no great distance. The executive go
vernment has loft its enrrgy—the legislative power is incffe&ual,
from the party difputcs that prevail among the members of it—
and the rabble seem only to watch a favorable moment, to attempt
the lives ol several o( the most diftinguiihed public characters.
Some letters indeed were received yesterday, dated after the
dispatch of the mail, which alTert that a riot had began, and that
the National guards had been reputed, but we have not learnt
the particulars of the affair, tn such a manner as to be able to re
port them correctly. But the fermentation was general.
The cry of the mob is, " cut off the heads of the MimJleri in ge
neral." It is expected that they will all refjgn.
The public mind is much divided on the grand plan of paying
off the debt with paper money. This floating stock amounts to
2 milliards, or go millions sterling.
It is extremely probable that M. Neckar is no longer Minister
of Finances in France. In their deranged state, it will be an ar
duous, talk to reduce them to order. We doubt not there willlbe
many caudidatcs for the office, but to find one of experience and
abilities fit to succeed M. A\ckar, is, perhaps beyond the reach
of the anticipating wisdom of the National AfltmblV.
The prefsftill continues with unabated a&ivity : two additional
tenders have been employed in that fervicc on the River Thames,
since Tuesday last.
Sept. 14. A Placart, or Royal proclamation, has been ilt ied
by the Minister of the home departmeut in Spain, bearing date at
Bucn Reriro, Monday the 9th of August, which forbids under
pain of forfeiting double value, the exportation of wheat,
flour of wheat, barley flour, or meal ot barley, before the firft day
6F December next, when hij Majcfty and Council will be readv to
prescribe the terms On which any exports of those articles will be
permitted for the remainder of the year.
The Government ofMadrashas taken the country of the Carna*
tic again into their own hands; by this, they have refumcd the
immediate collection of the reveUucs of the country, which for
some years past have been invested in the hands of the Nabob of
Arcot.
The torch of discord again threatens the southern provinces of
France. At afederatiou of the National Guards of Languedoc at
Jalles, the Deputies of the Vivarais proposed to march, against the
Protestants of Nifmes, to revenge the cause of their catholic breth*
ren, and at the fame time to take possession of Avignon, where
there are 80 pieces of cannon, and a fortified place. It is suppo
sed that theemiflaries of the aristocratic party are endeavoring to
avail themselves of the fanaticifm of the inhabitants of the South
of France ; and it is feared that in a month or two Nifmes may be
:he victim of their manoeuvres.
TheNothern powers, including Ruflia, Sweden and Denmark,
it is said, formed an alliance—which, with refpeft to England,
Spain, and France, is to be cOtifidered as a revivicationof the arm
ed neutrality.
The intention of this measure is 'to prefervc an unmolested
commcrce for their naval (lores to the Southern States of Europe ?
and prevent America deriving any benefit from this fourcc.
A Counter Revolution in France is daily looked for by tha
Aristocratic party, who now begin to demonstrate their conti-*
dence, by levelling the mod marked contempt and denhon again ft
the National Affcmbly. Our advices further add that the Prince
de Conde has at this time not less than 20,000 men in daily pay,
whom he can muster in the course of twelve hours.
The Lieutenant Sandel, who commanded the Swedish sire-ship,
which occasioned the loss in the Swedish fleet, in the action of
the 3d of July,has been tried by a council of war, and condemn
ed to die. v , • n
A similar fentencehas been likewise pronounced againlt gene
ral dc* Kaullars, accused of having failed in his duty last year, in
retreating precipitately from the enemy; and against Vice-Ad
miral Liljehorn, detained on account of negligence or dilobedi
ence in the naval engagement of last summer ; but the King has
not confirmed these two sentences ; he has been content to dis
miss them fiomthe feivicc, reserving to them their pay, however,
which it is thought the firft will not accept.
We are taught to believe, that the next meflenger from the court
of Madrid will determine the important queition of peace or
war ; and on that depends in a great measure the precise time ot
alfembling the new parliament.
The affair of Nancy is now known to have proceeded from the
many seditious writings, and other means set op foot by the mal
contents of the revolution. More than 400 lives were loft in it.
A revolution in France seems to be an event almost inevitable.
The minds of the people are again in a state of fermentation, and.
ripe for any desperate enterprize. That things will revert into
the old channel, is impoflible ; that they Ihould remain as they
are, is impoOible. Let us hope that from these convulsions a form
of government may arise, mild, firm,effeftive, and permanent.
PLYMOUTH, September 12
On Monday evening lall arrived at Plymouth Sound, Le
rience, French King's brig of 12 guns, Capt. Vannau, from Cher
bourffh, 011 a crui?e of eleven days, having on board a very largi
party of young French Noblemen, on-a Nautical tour, who wl
not permitted to anchor, but ordered to sea again
PORTSMOUTH, OSober 30.
By letters from London, of September 19, received in tins
town, we are informed, that the British FLEET had arrived into
port —but the imprefling of seamen still continued, and every war
like preparation was going on with unabated ailivityjat thft time.labour
Palma negata macrum, doriata reducit opimum. Hor.
Tofink in Jkame, orjwell with pride, ,
As the gay palm is granted or Ueny'd -Irancis.
THE wit is condemned to pass his hours—those hours
■which return no more, in atttmpting that who.
he cannot affeCt, or in colleCliug materials which he af
terwards disc overs to bs unfit for use ; but themechan
ic and the hujbandman know that the work which they
perform will always bear the fame proportion to The
time in which they are employed, and the diligence
which they exert.
Neither is regard of intellectual equally certain
with that of corporal labor : The artificer,for the ma
nufacture which he fiitifhesin a day, receives a certain
sum ; but the wit frequently gains no advantage
from a performance at which.he has toiled many months,
either because the town is not disposed to judge of his
merit, or because he has not suited the popular tajts.
It has been often tbferved, that not the value of a
man's income, but the proportion which it bears to his
expencis, juflly denominates him rich or poor ; and
that it is not so much the manner in which he lives, as
the habit of life he has contracted, which renders htm
happy or wretched. For this reason, the labor of the
mind even when it h adequately rewarded, does not
procure means of happiness in the fame proportion as
that of the body : They that sing at the horn, or whijfle
after the plough, w'tfh not for intellectual entertain
ment !If they have plenty of wholesome food, o
net repine at tht inelegance; of their table, nor are they
less hapby because they are uot treated with ceremon
ious refpeCi, and fervtd with silent celerity. The
scholar is always confdered as becoming a gentleman
by his education ; and the wit as conferring honor up
on his company, however elevated by their rank or
fortune ; they are, therefore, frequently admitted to
scenes of life very different from their own ; they par
take of pleasure which they cannot hope to purchase ;
and many fuperfiuities become necessary, by the grati
fication of wants, which in a lower clafsthey would ne
ver have known-
VIENNA, J lily io.
WEDNESDAY evening last arrived here the
Prince de Hesse Hombourg, Capt. in the re
giment Stein, with the circumstantial relation of
the affair of the 26th of June near Kalafat. Gen.
Clairfait, in order to drive the Turks from the
Lefler Wallachia, had fallen upon them sword in
hand, and after a very obilinate 1 efiftance, in
which they displayed their wouted valor, they
were completely routed, leaving 1 500 men either
killed on the field, or drowned in the Danube.—
The loss on our fide has been comparatively tri
vial-
LONDON, July 29.
The cause. above all others, which has render
ed the navy of Great Britain always superior to
the French, an-d still more superior to the Span
iards is, that the profeflion of the sea has con
stantly, amnngft us, been coniideredas a diftincft
one. The fleets of Spain are generally led by of
ficers pofleifing court interest—who from their
education know something of naval as well as
other tadiics—but who in many instances never
made a voyage in their lives, nor ever saw a fleet
in line of battle.
DUBLIN, August 18
Recruiting parties are as aiTiduous and alert as
ever, notwithstanding the display of the olive
branch which the Englilh and Spanifli declarati
ons have made.
Monday evening' the brig Commerce, of Salem,
in North America, arrived a: Sheep-Bay, near
Sligo, with an aflorted cargo, confilling of otter,
bear, racoon, deer, and many other skins, drefled
in the hair, befidesa large quantity of the choi
cest Canadian furs in packages and boxes,of three
hundred weight each. This vefTel is bound to
Liverpool, on a voyage of speculation—but there
can be 110 doubt of meeting a good market, as
the articles of lading are in great demand, and
inuft turn out very profitable to the adventurers,
who are said to be so connected with the Indian
tribes, as to be able to export a large quantity of
the fame species, excellent in their refpetftive
kinds, in the fuinmerof every year.
CHARLESTON, Odtober 28.
The federal court for South-Carolina cliftriifl,
under the authority of the United States, met at
M'Crady's long room on Monday the 25th inffc.
Present the Hon. John Rutledge and James Ire
dell, Efqrs. allociate justices ot the supreme court
and the Hon. Thomas Bee, Esq. judge of the di
ftrid: court: And after regulating proceedings,
process and pleadings, in laid court, adjourned
to meet at Columbia on the twelfth day of May
next
N E W-B RUNSWICK, Nov. 9 .
On the second inft. theDiftrift Court of New-
Jersey, was held in this place, when on motion,
Robert Boggs, Walter K.Cole and Joseph Sc:iJd:r,
Efq'rs, were admitted as attornies of said court :
>Jo business appearing, the court was adjourned
until the second Tuesday of Feb. next, then to
be holden at Burlington.
NEW-YORK, November 9.
a i. SS
r,"ml"'o!,"!hc"lrft day of January »«*,
compofecl only °fperfons \v ar ,
after be engaged or ' nte,e^.7 hr 'r in the
tuted by Britifli creditors, 01 their ag ,
federal courts against ««»"»«£
the sole object of this F?P of ! tlon 'f ,he several
ial to the welfare of a COMMON CAUSE, that
those who cannot attend personally, may do so
by Qs T Q Q a. 28.
dutch quills.
A correfpopdeut oblcrves, with much fatisfaft.on the encrealc
mg considerable lams of money to foreign parts h' «« l => e -
Vour correspondent would further remark, that he hnds, by
repeated trials, that the quills manufaQured here, area:, well clear
ed from oleaginous substance, contained mthem when new from
that his ou,lis would
appearT S rea J "er advantage, if he would fort them before he put
thL in bundles; and that he would clarify on y•three quills ma
wing. viz. the second, th.rd and feu* ; for all betides are not fit
for use. '—.JjiSm'''' r —
MASSACHUSETTS
HPHE Managers as the STATE LOTTERY, present the Public
X wiih the Fir ft CUt's of the UajfachufiUs fcm-annual Stute Lot
tery, which will commence drawing in the Rcprefentatives Ca/im»cr,
in Boflon, oo the Seventeenth of March next, or porter, it the
Tickets fliall be disposed of.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE
2£>ooo Tickcts, at Five Dollars eaclij arc
125,000 Dollars, to be paid in the following Prizes, tuojeft to a
deduction of twelve and an half per cent, for the use of the Com
monwealth,
Prizes.
x
3
6
10
3°
80
90
100
120
161
200
7 5 8 5
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blank:
25000.
£3* TICKETS may be had of the fevcral Managers, who will
pay the Prices on demand*—of the TREASURER of the Common
wealth—of JAMES WHITE, at his Book-Store, Frankiin's-lhad,
Court-Street, and at other places as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun."|
DAVID COBB, I
SAMUEL COOPER, Managers.
GEORGE R. MINOT, \
JOHN KNEELAND, J
Bojlon, July '2.8, 8790.
PURSUANT to a Resolve or ast of Congress of the 10th day
of May, 1780, relative to the deftru&ion of Loan-Office Cer
tificates by accident ; notice is hereby given to all whom it may
concern, that on the 2d day of January 1780, the house occupied
by the fubferiber in Market-Street, Philadelphia, took, fire and
wasconfumed, in which was lodged a number of Loan-Officc
certificates as pr. lift below, all which were destroyed by the said
fire : Therefore if any person, hath any objetlion why the Taid
Certificates should not be renewed, agreeable to the rcfolves of
Congress, they must make them before the expiration oi three
months, from the date hereof.
Invoice of Loan-Office Certificates deflroyed in the house of John Holker
on the 2d day of January 1780.
1778.
March 13,
No.
1636 1
1673 1
In teftimany whereof I have figncd the present for pub.
lication.
New-York, July 26th, t7go.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
Ottober 14, 1790. J
NOTICE is hereby given, That Profiofals will be received at
the Office of the Secretary ps the Treafurv, to the 30th day
of November next, inclusive, for the supply of all Rations which
may be required for the use of the United States, from the firft day
of January to the thirty-firft day of December 1791, both days in
clusive, at Springfield, in the State of Massachusetts, and the Poftof
Weft-Point, in the State of New-York.
The Rations to be fupplied,are to consist of the following Arti
cles, viz. One pound of Bread or Flour,
One pound of Beef, or of a pound of Pork,
Half a jill of Rum, Brandy, or Whisky,
One quart of Salt, }
Two quarts of Vinegar, f
Two pounds of Soap, P r * 100 ratlons -
One pound of Candles, J
Separate Proposals may be made for each place, fpecifying the
low ell price pr. ration. -No credit is required.
Imprtvcmenti and Additions to Mr. Bo wen's
Exhibition of Wax-Work,
Viz.
HIS Excellency Benjamin Franklin, Esq. A Philadelphia
Beauty. react, (an elegant figure) with her Olive Branch.
Plenty, with wreaths of Flowers, basket of Fruit, &c.
G"' TICKETS, at one quarter dollar, mav be had at Mr
Jam is Bryson'i, Third, below Market Street-, where the
exhibition i < open from to o'clock in the Mominr, until q every F.veninr
N. B. MINIATURE and PORTRAIT PAINTING
done at the fame place, on reasonable terms.
Philadelphia, Oil. 30, 1790.
640
' r 4TE LOTTERT.
Dollars.
10000
3000 a r e
2000
auuo
1000
5° o
2CO
100
5°
40
3°
20
10
8
Samuel Cooke, jun. New-York, 600
ditto. do. 600
Dollars, 1200.
HOLKER.
treasury department,!
Sept. 28, I 790. J
XTOTICE is hereby given, that propoiaisw.il be received ai tW
N Olf.cc ol the Secretary of the Treafurv until,te da,-
of December next include, for the budding of a UGH T hOL S.
nearly of the dimenf.ons proposed by the late Common.,* ; .f
Virginia and Maryland, upon the lot of land on C.pe Henrj, n»
the County of Prineels Ann, and State of Virginia, lately ced.d fu
that purpofeto the United States. It is desired, that the prfcpoUs
may leave theelcftion, whet, er the building above the found, turn
[hall be ol brick or Hone, and as the co.l and charges of those ma
terials vary, it is expected, that a coirelpondinj diffcicnce will he
made in the'terms offered. „ . r .
The foundation of the LighuHoufe is to be of stone, and runt
to the depth of thirteen feet below the water table, ove! 'he lop
which the pavement is to be laid. The diameter thereof is to he
twenty seven feet fix inches, with a vacancy of about nine feet in
The diameter ofthe base isto be twenty fix feet, at which place
the thicknefa of the walls is to be fix feet. Ihe height from t«e
nottom of the water tabic to the top or the stone work is to he sty
ventv two feet,wherethe diameter is to hcfixteen feet h\ inchcs,and
ilie thickness of the walls three feet. The form is to be a., ofbgon,
having three windows in the tall, and four in the weft If it be
built of brick, it is to be faced with the glassy kind, if of ltoue, it
is tobe faced with hewn or hammer-dressed stone.
On the top ofthe stone work is to be a floor of joufs, bedded
therein, planked over and covered with copper, extending about
two feet eight inches beyond the wall, thereby forming an eve,
which isto be finilKd with a cornice, the whole having a dc.ceni
from the centre fufficient to throw off the water.
The lanthorn is to be supported by eight posts ot wrought Iron
of three inches square and twenty feet in length, ten feet ot which
aie to be wrought into the stone wall on the inner part 3 t each
corner. The diameter of it is to be ten feet, leavings platform on*
the oufide thereof of about fix feet in width. All the work above?
this is to be of iron and copper. The lanthotn is to be ten rect
high, having a semicircular roof of five feet more, with iron rak
ers covered with copper. The whole space between the polls sup
porting the lanthorn, is to be occupied by the sashes* which arr
to be made of iron, each sash is to have twenty-eight panes ot
-rlafs, twelve by fourteen inches. One of the sashes on the fouih
weft fide is to be hung with hinges for a door to go out upon the
p!atf<>im, from the outer part of which to the roof of the lanthorn
is to be a frame of iron covered with a net work of strong brass
wire, to prefcrve the gla(s from injuries by hail and flights of
birds in the night.
The rafters of the lanthorn are to be well fattened to an iron,
hoop, ovei which is a copper funnel, through which the smoke
may pass into a large copper ventilator in the form of a man's
head, capable of containing one hundred gallons. 1 his head is to
be so placed as to be turned by a large vane on the spire above it,
that the hole for venting the smoke may always be to the leeward.
Eight dormant ventilators of fix inches diameter are to be fixed.
Dollars,
10000
6000
6000
6coo
s ooz
6000
8000
45°°
4,000
3600
3220
2000
60680
in the roof of the 1 author a.
A close stove is to be provided and fixed in the lanthorn, which
is to be f,urnifhed with eight lamps, each capaKle of containing fix
quarts, hung in two tiers over each other transversely. I here are
to be fix flights of flairs to ascend to the lanthorn, the entrance to
which is to be by a door covered with copper. The building is
to be furnifhed with two condu&ors, to secure it from the ctfe6ls
of lightning.
A frame house is to be built for the keeper, twenty feet square,
two stories high, with a frame kitchen ; the whole to be fimfhed
with lath and plaifle'r.
A vault for the storage and fafe keeping of the oil is to be built
of stone at a convenient distance, twelve feet wide, and twenty in
length. It is to be arched, and covered with earth faud, over
which a (bed is to We built, and it is to be turnifhed with e.ght
(trong cedar cisterns with covers, each capable of containing two
hundred gallons of oil. The entrance isto be fccurcd by a Itrong
door. ■ -v.
Good security for the faithful performance of the contrafl will
be expected. Payments on account will be made at proper sta
ges ot the work, and the balance will be paid on its completion :
or, if a suitable difference fhoukl be made in the terms, cafli wil*
be advanced for the purchase of materials and provisions*
125CC0
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,!
Sept. 20, 1790. J
IT is hereby made known, that the following arrangement has
been adopted towards carrying into execution the A6l, mak
ing provision for the debt of the United States, viz.
Loan-Office Certificates, andthofe iftued by the Commiflion
ers for the adjustment of accounts in the fcvcral States, will beTe
ceivable only at the Treasury and by the refpettive Commiflionera
of Loans within the States in which they were refpeftively illued.
The Certificates issued by the Register of theTreafury, by the Pay
Mailer General and Commiflioncr of Army Accounts, by the
Commiflioners for the adjustment of the Accounts of the Quarter"
Mailer's, Commiflai y's, Hospital, Cloath'ng, and Marine Depart
partments, Indents of Interest, and Bills of Old Emission, will
be receivable mdifcriminately at the Treasury and by the Com
miflioners of all the States. The situation of the Checks has dicta
ted this arrangement for the greater security of the public agatnfi
impositions by forged or counterfeit paper, and which theslaideta
have been adopted from the fame consideration for the execution,
ot the business are such, that it will give facility and dispatch, it
applications from the Holders of Certificates of the Register of
the Treasury and of the Paymaster General, and Commiflioner of
Army Accounts, and of the Commiflioners of the five Depart
ments above mentioned, are made in the firfl instance at the Trea
ftjry ; and if applications from the Holders of Loan Office Certi
ficates, and Certificates issued by the Commiflioners for the adjust
ment of Accounts in the refpeaivc States, ara made in like man
ner to the Commiflioners of Loans within the States in which they
were iflued. Transfers can afterwards be made to any Oific® tkafi
the Proprietors of these Certificates may desire.
Dols.
INTELLIGENCE-OFFICE,
No. 208, in Market, above 6th Street, SouthJide,
WILL be negociated-all kinds of PAPER
MONEY and
BUSINESS tranfa&ed in public offices in the
city, and such Paper-Money and Certificates furnifbcd, as will
make payment at the Land Office equal to Gold and Silver.
MONEY borrowed or loaned, and BILLS,
BONDS, and NOTES of HAND discounted.
HOUSES, Farms, Lands, and Lots, bought
and fold, let or leafed, and Houses, Rooms, Boardiog and Lodg
ing procured for Strangers, or others.
BOOK-KEEPERS, Clerks, School-Matters,
Waiters, Nurses, Seamftrefies, Chamber and other Maids, and
those of other profeflions, who comc well recommended, may
hear of employ ; and Employers be supplied, bv applying to
FRANCIS WHITE.
Dealer in Paper Monty, and Public Securities.
The price of this paper is 3 dolls, pr. avn. and sd. Jingle number.
At the
Public Securities,
4