Vol. I.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Editor ps the Rational Gazette
hiving found his proposals for es
tablishing a paper of that kind attended
with all the fcrccefs he could reasonably
expect, considering the ftiort time that
has elapsed since his first acquainting
the public with his design, takes this
opportunity in his frjjt number, briefly
to remind his subscribers, and others,
of the, plan upon which he originally
intended, and still proposes to proceed.
The National Gazette (ball be pub
lished on the, Monday and Thursday
mornings of every week., in the city of
Philadelphia, and sent to the more dis
tant subscribers by the mod ready and
tegular modes of conveyance. Such
persons, resident in the city of Phila
delphia, as incline to become subscri
bers, {hall be supplied early on the
mornings of publication, at their own
houses. The price will be thru
dollars a year ; the first half yearly
payment to be made in three months
from the time of subscribing, and fu
ture payments every lix months.
The paper (hall contain, among other
interesting particulars, the most im
portant foreign intelligence, collected
not only from the French, and
Dutch newspapers _ (a constant and
puntual supply of which has been
engaged) but also from original com
munications, letters, and other papers
to which the Editor may have an op
portunity of recurring for the molt au
thentic information relative to the af
department for domestic new*
will be rendered «ftompletc and {*-
tisfactory as bf inserting a
judicious detail of such occurrences as
shall appear worthy the notice of the
public. *""* ~
The most respectful attention {hall
be paid to all decent productions of
entertainment in prose or verse that
may be feat for insertion, as well as to
such political essays as have a tendency
to promote the general interests of the
Union. There will also be inserted
during the sessions of Congress, a brief
History of the Debates and Proceedings
of the Supreme Legislature of the Uni
ted States, executed, it is hoped, in
such a manner as to answer the expec
tations and gratify the curiosity of eve
ry reader.
Persons at a distance who may sub
scribe for fifteen papers, and will be
come responsible for the subscription
money, (hall receive with the packet
a fifteenth, gratis.
Subscriptions are received at the Office,
No. High-street ; also at the respective
Bookstores of Mr. Francis Bailey,
and Mr. Thomas Dobson.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF
THE UNITED STATES.
MONDAY, October 24th, 1791.
THIS day, being the day appointed by law
for the meeting of the Second Congress,
under the Constitution of Government of the
United States, the following members of tht
House of Representatives, appeared, produce*
their credentials, and took their feats, vi*.
From New-Hampshire—Nicolas Gilman,
Samuel Livermore, and Jeremiah Smith.
Massachusetts —Fisher Ames, Sheerjashub
Bourse, Elbridge Gerry, Benjamin Goodhue,
George Thatcher, and Artenias Ward.
Rhode-Island —Benjamin Bourne.
Coñecticut- James Hillhouse, J on athan
Siurpe*, Jonathan Trumbull, Jeremiah Wadl
worth, and'Amafa Larned.
New-York —James Gordon, John Lawrance
Peter Silvester, and Thomas Tredwell.
New-Jersey —Elias Boudinot.
P ennsylv ania —Thomas Fitzsimons, Daniel
Heiftct, and Frederick A. Muhlenberg.
Dtlawart — John Vining.
'Fan-land —Jolhui Seney, Samuel Sl "™"
j£L>-]obn Hi own, William Giles
S..muel Griffin. >m« Andre*
M„Cf*, and A! vaodw * !me.
By PHILIP FRENEAU.
MONDAY, October 31, 1791.
North-Catoima—Jbhti Steele, and Hugl
Wyliamfon. ,
South-Carolina— Daniel Huger, Will: a*
Smiib, and Thomas Tuder Tucker.
Georgia—Francis Willis.
And a quorum, conlifling of • majority ol
the whole qumber being prefetit,
Xhe House proceeded by ballot to thechoict
of a Speaker, and upon cxaminia.' (he ballots
> majority of the votes of the whole Houl<
was found In, favour of Mr. Jonathan 1 rum
bull, who was conduced to the chair, fron
whence hi addressed the House, as follows :
1 HND my'fclf unable to express to you tht
Tull sense I have of the diftinguilhrd honoi
have done me in the choicc of youi
Speaker ,
Tin diffidence I feel in my abilities to dif
charge, with propriety, the duties of the chair
is almotl insuperable in my ownmind. But en*
coifraged by the known candor of thishooorablt
body, and depenuing, as I tlunk 1 may confi
dently do, on the kind afEflance of each indi
vidual in it, I fliall enter on its duties, with full
airurances to you, Gentlemen, that I (hall en
deavor to condufl myfelf withthat impartial
it , integrity and afliduity, which become th<
conspicuous (latron in which you have been
pleated to place me.
The House then proceeded to the appoint-
Snt of a Clerk, and upon examining the
lots, an unanimous vote was found in favor
as John Beckley.
The oath to Import the Conftituuon ot me
United States, asfiefcribed by law, was then
•dminiftered by Mr. Livermore to the Speaker,
mdtheu by the Speaker to all Membra
jiefent. The fame oath, together with the
3a:h of office were alio adminiflered by tM
Speaker to the Clerk. t
On motion, Ordered, That the Speaker
point committees, until the House Iball one*
wife determine. , J
A mtfage was received from the Senate, i, '
forming the House that a quorum of the S.
iiate. was affemblcd. . . '
Mr. Smith (S. C.),Mr Lawrance, and Mr
White were appointed a committee, to torn I
MJirrnK'T of the Senate, to wail on the Picu
ient of the United States, to inform Tnmlhil
i quorum of both HoufcS was alTcmbled, and
ready to receive any communications be may
!>e pleased t6 make.
A committee was appointed of five to pre
pare and report rules and orders of proceeding.
loi'cph Wheaton was appointed frrjeant at
irms ; Gilford Dallcy, doo.keeper; and Tho
mas Claxton, assistant dooikeeper.
Mr Smith, (S. C ) from the committee ap
pointed for the purpose, reported, that th<
Kefident was pleased to fay that he woulc
make a communication to both Houlcs o
Congress, to-morrow, at twelve o'clock, in ib<
senate-chamber.
TUESDAY, OBoter «5-
Mr. Clark, Mr. Dayton, and Mr. Kitchcl
rom New-Jcrfey ; and Mr. Jacobs f.otr
Pennsylvania, took their fc»s in the Houtc.
The Rev. Mr. Blair was appointed chap-
A roeffage was received from the Senate,
nforming that they were ready to attend th<
House in reeeivin* the communication Iron:
he President. Whereupon, ■
The Speaker with the members oftheHoute,
preceded by the ferjeant at arms, proceeded tc
he senate-chamber, where the Prelident ad
drcfled both Houfcs ?s follows:
FeUow-citizens of the Senate, and of (hi
House of Reprefcntatives.
I MEET you, upon the preterit oc
ofton, with the feelings, which arc na
turally inspired by a strong tmpreflior
Df the prolperous lituation of our com
mon country, and by a persuasion equal
ly strong, that the labours of the fcftion.
which has just commenced, will, under
the guidance of a spirit, no less pru
dent than patriotic, ifTue in mcalures
conducive to the stability and increase
of national prolperity.
Numerous as arc the providentia
bleflings which demand our gratefu,
acknowledgments; the abundance wit>
which another year has again rcwardec
the industry of the husbandman, is toe
■mportant to escape recolleaion.
Your own observations, in your re
fpeftive situations. will have fatishcc
vou oftheprogrefltve state of agncul
ture, manufactures, commerce and na
vieation : In tracing their cause., yor
will have remarked, with particulai
pleasure, the happy effects of that re
vtv al ol confidence, public as well a:
privtte, to which the constitution ant
laws of the United States have so emi
nently contributed: And you will have
observed, with no lets interest, new anc
deci&ve proofs of the encrealing rc JP u '
tatior and credit of the nation. But
you,neverthelefs, cannot fail to derive
["atisfaftion from the confirmation ol
theft circumstances, which will b« dis
closed in the several official communi
cations that will be made to you in th(
course of your ,
T«ie rapid fubferiptions to the Bank
of the United Stawa, which completed
the I'um allowed to be fubftnbed in a
single day, is imosi the striking and
pleasing evidences which preftnt them
lelves, not only of confidence in the
government, but of reiource in the com
nuj
% interval of your recess, due
ittention has been paid to the execu
tionof the different obje£U which were
Tpeyally provided for by the laws and
refalutions of the last feilion. .
Among the mod important of these
is the defence and security of the Well
:m frontiers. Tp accpmpliih it on
:hemoft humane principles, was apri
nam wish. ■ ,
Accordingly at the fame tune, that
treaties have been provisionally con
cluded, and other proper means used
o attach the wavering, and to confirm
n their friendfhip, the well disposed
ribes of Indians—effectual measures
iav« been adopted to make these of a
noftiie defejiption sensible, that a paci
fication was desired upon terms of mo
de tat ion and justice.
<Th«fe mealures having proved ut»-
fuccefsful, it became necessary to con
v |>ce the refraaory of the power of
thl United States to puhifll their de
pmdatioiis ; offenfive operations have
dStfor*; bccadirc&jd » to be conduc
ed, however, as confidently as poillDltf
with the dictates of humanity. Some
of theft have been crowned with full
success, and others are yet depending.
The expeditions which have been com
pleted, were carried on under the au
thority, and at the expence of the Unit
ed States, by the militia of Kentucky ;
whole enterprise, intrepidjty, and good
conduct, are entitled to peculiar com
mendation. ,
Overtures of pcace are lull cont tnuca
:o the deluded tribes, and considerable
lumbers of ihdividuals belonging to
:liem have lately renounced all further
jppofition, removed from their former
Titrations, and placed themselves under
he immediate p rot eft ion of the United
It is sincerely to be desired, that all
ieed of coertion, in future, may ctafc ;
ind that an intimate intercourse may
Tucceed ; calculated to advance the
liappincfs of the Indians, and to attach
:hem firmly to the United States.
In order to this, it feeir.j necefTiiiy,
That they (hould experience the bene
fits of an impartial dispensation of
Tllat the mode of alienating their knds,
the main source of discontent and
war, (hould be so defined, and regu
lated, as to obviate imposition, and,
as far as may be pra&icable, contro
versy concerning the reality and ex
tent of the alienations which are
made. _ , ,
That commerce with them (hould be
promoted under regulations tending
to secure an equitable deportment
towards them, and that such rational
experiments (hould be made, for im
parting to them the blellings of civil
ization, as may, from time to time,
suit their condition.
That the Executive of the United State:
(hould be enabled to employ th<
means to which the Indians have
been long accustomed, for uniting
their immediate intercfts with th<
preservation of peace;
And—that efficacious provision (houlc
be made for infli&ing adequate pe
nalties upon all those, who, by vio-
Numb. i.
lating their rights, shall infringe the
treaties, and endanger the peace of
the Union. i _
A system corresponding with the
mild principles of religion and philan
thropy towards an unenlightened race
of men, whose happiness materially
depends on the conduct of the United
States, would be as honorable to the
National character, as conformable to
the dictates of found policy. , ,
. . The powers specially vested in mm
by the act, laying certain duties on •
tilled spirits, which respects the £ab
divisions of the districts into surveys,
the Appointment of officers, and the
assignment of compensations, have liko
wilc been carried into effect. In a
natter, in which both material* and
Experience were wanting to guide the
calculation, it will be readily conceiv
ed that there must have been difficulty
in such an adjustment of the rates of
compensation as would conciliate a rem
fonable competency, with a proper re
gard to the limits prescribed by th*
law. It is hoped that the circumspec
tion which has been used will be found
in the result to have secured the last of
the two objects; but it is probable, that
with a view to the fir ft, in fomeisftan
:es a revision of the provision will be
Found adviseable.
The impressions with, which this law
has been received by the community,
have been, upon the whole, fuels as
were to be expected among enlightened
tad well-disposed citizens, from the
propriety ana necessity of the measure.
she novelty, however, of the tax, in
a considerable part of the United States,
and a misconception of some of its pro
visions, have given occasion in parti
cular places to some degree of
tent. But it is satisfactory to knew,
i,m Am Mfmtown yirlrii >Mi {■jirill
Sanations and more just apprehensions
>f the true nature of the law. And I
entertain a full confidence, that it will*
n all, give way to motives which arise
jut of a just sense of duty, and a virtu
jus regard to the public welfare,
If there are any circumstances, in
he law, which consistently with it»
main design, may be so varied as to w
move any well-intentioned objections
hat may happen to exist, it will con
sift with a wife moderation to make the
proper variations. It is desirable, on
ill occasions, to unite with a steady
and firm adherence to constitutional
and necessary acts of government, the
fullest evidence of a disposition, as far
as may be practicable, to consult the
wishes of every part of the community,
md to lay the foundations of the pub
ic administration in the affections of
he people,
Pursuant to the authority contained
in the several acts on that subject—a
disrict of ten miles square, for the per
manent feat of the government Of the
United States, has been fixed, and an
nounced by proclamation ; which dis
trict will comprehend lands en both
ides of the river Potowmac, and the
owns of Alexandria and George
town. A city has also been laid out
agreeably to a plan which will be plac
id before Congress: And as there is a
prospect favored by the rate of sales
which have already taken place, of am
ple funds for carrying on the necessary
public buildings, there is every expec
ation of their due progress.
The completion of the census of the
inhabitants, for which provision was
made by law, has been duly notified
excepting in one instance, in which
the return has been informal; and an
other, in which it has been omitted or
miscarried) and the returns of the offi
cers who were charged with this duty,
which will be laid before you, will give
you the pleasing assurance, that the pre
sent population of the United States
borders on four millions of persons.
It is proper also to inform you, that
a further loan of two millions and axhalf of florins has been completed in
Holland ; the terms of which are fimi
lar to those of the. one la ft announ
ce 1, except as to a small reduction of
charges. Ahothc%, tio terms
fix millions Of fLoriips, had bedn fct or}
foot, under that allured
an immediate-completion
Gentlemen of the Senate.
Visionally concluded with the Chero
kee and Six Nations of Indians, will
be laid before you for your considera
tion and ratification.
Gentleman of the House qf
Representatives,
IN entering upon the discharge or
your Legislative trust. you mud anti
cipate With pleasure,- that many of the
-dilfieulft«s, necessarily incident to the
arrangements of a new government,
'for in 'extinltve country, have been
•happily farmounted by the zealous and
'jjuaicious exertions of your predeces
sors in co-operation with the other
branch of the Legislature. The im-
K riant objects which remain to be ac
xiplifhed, will, I am persuaded, be
conducted upon principles equally
comprehensive, ana equally well cal
xulated tor the advancement of the gc
-acral weal.
The time limited for receiving sub
scriptions to the loans proposed the
making provision for the debt of the
•United States, having expired, state
ments from the proper department,
will, as soon as possible apprise you of
-the exact result. Enough, however,
-is already known to afford an assurance
*hat the views of that act have been
substantially fulfilled. The subscrip
t ion in the domestic debt of the United
States, has embraced by far the great
ex! .-proportion of that debt ; affording
<at'tnc<mmc time, proof of the general
satisfaction of the public creditors with
the system which has been proposed to
their acceptance, and of the spirit of
Accommodation to the convenience of
the government with which they are
actuated. The subscriptions in the
debts of the respective states, as far as
the provisions of the law have permit
ted, may be said to be yet more gene
ral. The part of the debt of the Unit
ed States which remains unsubscribed,
-will naturally engage your further de
liberations.
, It is particularly pleasing to me to
be able to announce to you, that the
revenues which have been establish
ed, promise to be adequate to their
objects, and may be permitted, if no
unforeseen exigency occurs, to super
sede, for the present , the necessity of
any new burthens upon our constitu
ents.
An object which will claim your
early attention, is a provision for the
current service of the ensuing year, to
gether with such ascertained demands
upon the Treasury, as require to be
immediately discharged, and such ca
sualties as may have arilen in the ex
ecution of the public buiinefs, for
which no specific appropriation may
have yet been made ; of all which, a
proper estimate will be laid before you.
Gentlemen of the Senate and
■■■of the House of Representatives,
I (hall content myself with a gene
ral reference to former communica
tions for feveral objects,upon which the
urgency of other affairs has hitherto
postponed any definitive resolution:—
Their importance will recall them to
your attention ; and I trust that the
progress already made in the most ar
duous arrangements of the government
will, afford you leisure to resume them
with advantage.
There are, however, some of them
of which I cannot forbear a more par
ticular mention —These are, the Mili-
Ha—the Post-Office and Poft Roads—
the Mint—Weights and Measures —
a Provision for the sale of the vacant
Lands of the United States.
The first is certainly an object of pri
mary importance, whether viewed in
reference to the national security, to
the satisfaction of the community, or
to the preservation of order. In con
nection with this, the establishment of
-competent magazines and arsenals, and
the fortification of such places as are
peculiarly important and vulnerable
naturally present themselves to con
sideration. The safety of the United
States, under divine protection, ought
to reft on the basis of systematic and lb
-lid arrangements ; exposed as little as
po (libit to the hazards of fortuitous
circumstances.
The importance of the post office,
ana post roads, on a plan inssciently
liberal and comprehensive, as they res
.pest the expedition, safety and facility
of is encreased by the
instrumentality in tiiffcfTing a know- '
ledge of the laws and procèdings of the
government; which, while It contri
butes to the security of the people,
serves also to guard them against the
effects of misrepresentstion and mifcon-.'
ccjjtion. Ihe eftablifhinent of addi
tional cross-posts, especially to some of
the important points in the western and
northern parts of the Union, cannot
fail to be of material utility.
The disorders in the existing currrti- 1
cy, and especially the scarcity of small!.
change, a scarcity so peculiarly distress
ing to the poorer classes, strongly re
commend the carrying into immediate
effeftthe resolution already entered in
to conccrning the eftabliftiment of a
mint. Meafurcs ha\'e been taken pur
luant to that resolution for procuring
some of the most necessary artists, to
gether with the necessary apparatus.
An uniformity in the weights and
meafurcs of the country is among the
important objects submitted to you by
the eonftitution, and if it can be deri
ved from a standard at once invariable
and univcrfal. must be no less honora
ble to the public councils than condu
cive to the public convenience.
A provision for the sale of the vacant
lands of the United States, is particu
larly urged, amongother reasons, by the
important contidcrations, that they are
pledged as a fund for reimbursing the
public debtthat if timely and judi
cioufiy applied they may save the ne
ccfTity of burthening our citizens with
new taxes for the extinguifhmcnt of the
principal ; and that being free to dif
chargc the principal, but in a limited
proportion, no opportunity ought to
be loft for availine the public of its
right.
G. WASHINGTON.
United. States, Otl. 25, >791.
After which tfic Representatives returned
to their chamber, when the addicts was rfcad
by the Clcik.
Qn motion of Mr. Lawrance, Rrjclvcd. Ijhit '
this Houfc will to-morrow rcfolve itlilf into a
committee of the whole to take into confidcra
tion the Prcfident's fpcech.
The Houfc aJjourncd until eleven o'fflck 1
to-morrow.
— I
WEDNESDAY, OElobtr 26.
Mr. Scdgwick from MaflachuTetts ; Mr.
Venable from Virginia ; and Mr. Macon from ,
North-Carolina severally took their feats.
A letter was read from the Treasurer of the ,
United Stales, with a flatement of his accounts
from the ill Ocl. 1790, to 30th June, 1791. ;
A motion was made that the rules of the
former House fliould be adopted pro tempore. <
Some of the new members objected to this, :
l>ecaufe ihey were unacquainted with those t
rules. The rules were then by order read, I
and the motion was agreed to.
A mediae was received from the Piefidcnt 1
of the United States, communicating to the
House sundry atts passed by the k-xtflatures of
diffcrcot ltatcs, and transmitted to liim during
the tecefs of Congress, viz.—An ast of the
State of New-Himpthirf, ceding to the Uuited (
States the fort and lifiht-houlc within that I
Date: an ast of the of Pennsylvania, <
ratifying the firft amendment to the Conftitu- 1
tion of the United State*; and an ast of the '
of North-Carolina, "ranting to the '
United States the use of the jails within that
(late. I
A petition of James Rumfey, by Joseph
Barnes his attorney wa» read, prayina that the
ast for promoting the progress of ufeful arts,
may be rendered mote ellcftual to fccurc in
ventdfs the right to their discoveries. I
The House rcfolved itfelf into a committee
of the whole 011 the President's fpcech ; and
after some debate the following relolution was :
agreed to.
That it is the opinion of this committee,
that a refpeftful address to be presented
by the Houle of Representatives to the Prc
fident of the United States, in answer to his
fpcech to both Houses of Congrcfs, at the com
mcncenvnt of the session, containing assuran
ces that this House will take intoconlideration,
the ratiousand important matters recommend
ed to their attention.
Mr. Madison, Mr. Lawrance, and Mr.
Smith, (S. C.) were »pjn>iiitcd a committee to
piepare an address putluant to the resolution.
A memorial was presented from the diftil
lets in the town of Boston and vicinity, com
pl.iining of the unequal operation of the excise
taw, and fuggefling alterations therein.
A memorial was read from the Sheriff of
Suffolk Countv, Maffachufctts, refpefting pri
foncr» of th? United States.
A fdotation was ado|>ted, dircftmg the
Clerk to cjufc ihrce of the city ntwlpapcis,
•«jhe eloflion of ihe rcfpcflive members, to
biHcft at their lodgings.
JMr. Giles presented a
William Witlock of the town ps Petcrlftrg,
Viriinij, which,)**
of'tle Trralajv. I
The ftlloMng *>er*kcr« wet* ahfoinMi at
9,-vm MdfnA
LlvcrrtlWrc, •Bou»inot, vGerrf, Boftrne, 'iR.T
Hillhoufe, and Steele.
A propofitiprt mTde" by Mr. "Viniflg to ap
point a comnittdc for contested ele&ions, was
-rakm into cwifideniioii, -and debited;-bar
.without eomii|g to a dccifion tUercon.;
The House adjourned.
THURSDAY, Ofi'Jtr iy.
Several petitions, viz. of Charles Gardener (
John Taylor, Abraham Watson, Thomas Hunt,
and Richard Moore, praying compensation for
; services rendered j and a petition of Elliahetli
l M'Clary, widow of 4<ajor WClary, who fell ai
Bunker-Hilf; of Jacob Motte, in behalf of tiro
orphan children, of the late Major Motte; W
Cleland KinlocV, In behalf of the widow oI the
late Major Huger; of Thomas Shnbrick, ut}>e-'
half of two orphan children of the late Capt.
Shubrick ; and of Jofcph Ball, in bahaK of an
orphan of the latfc Major Wife ; Severally pray
ing for the aid and munificence of c ongrefs,
were read and referred to the S ccretafy at War!
to report thereon.
A remoaflrance from a.number of citizens of
the slate of Ncw-Y«rk, complaining of the pen
sion granted to John Ybunglovc, and praying,
an investigation may be made into the circtim
ftanccs on which the fame was grai ted ; also a
counter petition from ?»■ r. Younglove, were se
verally read and referred to tne .Secretary at
War.
Mr. Madison in behalf of the Committee ap
pointed for that purpose, presented the draft of
an address to the Prefidcnt of the Onited ' tates,
in answer to his fpecch ; the said draft having
been twice read, and then debated in a commit
tee of the whole house, wa» agreed to without
amendment.
It was then resolved that »ht speaker, attended
by the lioufc, (hould prcfent the laid address :!
and a committee confiding of three merabca,
was deputed to the Prefidcnt to know when, and
where it would be convenient for him to re
ceive the fame. Ihe committee hating waited
oo the Prefideut, returned with an answer, that it
would be convenient for him to receive the said
address at his house on Friday, at twelve o'cleck.
A petition of Jeremiah Allen, presented to
the house yeftcrday, was referred to i.r. Gerry,
Nfr. Larncd, and Mr. Sterpett.
A petition of Sufennah Fowle, widow of E. S.
Bowie, late a lieutenant in the army of the U.
States, and who died in September 1790, was
presented to the house and read, praying that a«
no prorifion is made for widows of her defaip-.
/ion, (he may be aUoWed such relief as may ap
,pear reasonable. The said petition waa refer
red to a fele& committee.
A petition of Francis and Iliac Chcate, pray
ing for compensation for lufles and injuries furf
tained by rcafon of their captivity by the Indi
ans, was read rnd referred to a committee con
filling of three members.
A petition of R. Weed, praying compensation
£»r supplies furniihed the United states; and a
petition of a number of fettlcrs in the western ter
ritory, between the l.ittlc Miami and Fort
Walking-ton, praying that the title to their lands,
which they derive from the Miami purchase, may
be confirmed and quieted ; were severally read
and referred to the ternary of the Treasury.
A petition fcom a number of public creditors
who loaned money in 17'7 and 1778, praying
an appropriation miy be mad™ for arrears of in
terest due, and for the annual intrreH arising
hereafter, wai read ar.d laid on the table.
A me/sage was received from the President
of the United states by the" ecretary at War,viz.
Ccr.tlcir.cn of ike ScrflTr, ard
Houft of "Rctrrferrtatrvcii
I HAVE fl the Secretary of War to
lay before you, for ycur information, the reports
of Lrigadier General Scott, and Lieutenant Co
lonel Commandant V\. ilklnfon, the officer* who
commanded the two expeditions against the Wa
balh Indians, in the months of une and uguft
; together with the inftrufliona by virtue of
which the said expeditions were undertaken.
V»hea the operations now depending shall be
terminated; the repeats relative thereto (hall also
be laid before you.
G. WASHINGTON.
United States, OA. 17, *79*-
The laid message and papers accompanying
the fame were laid on the table.
A petition of Charles Hately.of 5. C. praying
a reasonable time may be granted iiim to finiib
and exhibit the model of a machine for cleaning
rice i was read and referred to the Secretary of
State, for the information of the Commifiioners
of the l atent Office.
FRIDAY, Cel. 18.
A number of petitions praying for comperfs
tions and pensions, were read and referred to
:he secretary at war.
A petiticn of B. Warren, presented on a for
mer day, wa» now referred to the secretary a'
war*
On motion of Mr. Lawrance, t committee
was appointed to bring in a bill or bills to pro
vide for the regiftrring °f (hip* or le.fcls, to r?
thole employed in the trade anc"
;i/heries, a:>d for other purposes. '1 be jentlr
men appointed were, Mr, Goodhue, Mr. F»r*
and Mr. f«a»ned«
At twelve o'clock, the Speaker, attended by
the members ami the clerk, and preceded by
the fcrjeant at arms, waited on the Prcfidint of
the United States, at his bouse, where th*_
Speaker deliver.d the l\>Jlov|irg acklrtl*, in an
fwerjo t*J>otb Jioufcs at the open-
To kitoiuwß' WASHINGTON,
V*J<dcm:jf lie United Sum.
it the opening
of the ptTenfcfcwn, (he Houie of Rfprefen
*tatiifeiiia>e talcfea ample (hare in the feeling
anfpircd bv the aflual prosperity «i»d <taw<m<m
profpefts of our country : And whilfl, witn
WpiMtriHwris. gjfarrik wikrik f/y
happinels to the true loutce from w/>>ch it
(lows, we behold with an animMbtyt pfcafure,
the decree tfc ctwftituugn.agsl jaws
ui uiiTfimnnitnriMKißcranrMniirn
difpenfipgi). r , | j
It yields ui p»rricular fatlsfeftion to Jam
the hiccifs with wMch ihetHffere nr fmpoif.)! '
meattirw of t%* ;
■at WCii thok fodaaflv provided for It tbe wn
fedioa-astfeofe of preceding date. Tbeltfmy
of «ur wefttrn frtontter, in vfcitb the lhmmd
repofc of so many of our cuiacni *4e
involved, icing pcculirflv loicrcihrv;. jour
comtniimcAUbm on that arc proper-
Uuiiallv grateful to uj. and icfc#
conduct of the'WSlitia. Whofc ftrvicfa.Vffe
called for, irWi honttrabllcoitfirrtfiftWW Wife
efficacy if that prVcieui refborce of Vfrefe
state. And We anxiouflv wtth that the xon-
Icqnencrs of their fuecoMul
wf the oihar proceedings to vduch poa
may ileaveibe United Stem 4me fc
purfuc t|ie. mofl benevolent policy tqwil tfre
unhappy anfl deluded race of people rin
naehbouihood.
The amount of tKc population offhe pniied
Sates, determined by iiieVtums 6'f f&fcdtiftfl,
is a source of the tnoff jjleafing rtffletfiofir,
whether it be viewed tn refatien to oaTnlnkmil
fatcty and relpeftabilijy, or ai a proofdfthat
felicity in the (iturtion of «ur caucfry, which
I favours so unexampled a rapidity ia in
Nor vught any to be iulmiible to tfceaddi
tional motive fugoefted by (ins impojt.uH ivii,
to perpetuate the Free government rfabMted
with a wite adiiiiniflration qflt, tcya portico ps
the earth WdM 'promifet such an iricfeafe d
the number' wWll it to enfdy (fcbfc ttfeffinga
within the limits of the United States. '
We (ball proceed with ill flic tefpc# he to
your pauibnc recomih» ndatiprw, abd with a
deep, fcofc of the trufl committed to ui by our
fellow-citiicns, pa lake into coafidctvlion the
vaiious and important matters falling Vfilhia
the prefept fe'Sion. And in difcufling and de
ciding each, we Qtell feel every difpoGtion,
whittl we afe p&rfdiflg jfre' jXiblic welfare,
which muil be tlie object with all our
contlmienn, to accommodate as fdtli ptiffible,
the means of attaining it to the femirifciiuttrtl
wifljesof every pait of them.
Signttl by order nrrdpi Mhtlftrf the' (f
JONA^HAN^TRUMBULL, Streaker.
Attest. < rr. -,'T
Johk Bsckley, .CJ««k.
»i hi ,ii ii:< >-i-»r »
To Which the Proficient rep&ed niollovts:
CEKTKMCN, \y
THE pit afu re 1 derive from an zfiurance
of your attention tq the objeQa I have secom.
mended to you, is doubled by your concur
rence- in the teflimony I have borne' to tb«
prosperous condition of our pub'ic affairs.
Relying on the of your enHghtencsi
judgments, and your patriotic aid, I '(hallbe
the more encouraged in all my endeavour*lbr
the public weal ( and, particularly, in thbfc
which may be required on my pirt'fot e*e>
curing the salutary jneafurei i anticipate from
your prelent deliberations.
GEORGE WASHINGTON. .
The members then retwacd to their hall,
where the PreCdcnt's reply was read.
A mefface was received from the President
of the United States by Mr. Secretary Lcir,
commonicating a copy of the enumeration of
the inhabitants of rt«e United States, VjrceaMy
to the cenfun taken purftiant to a law o< the
Union : alio, fundrv papers from thr Governor
of Pennfylvania,rerpcfling (everal persons who
have fled from juftiee frorti this state, to the
(late of Virginia. The papers were read, and
a motion laid on the table by Mr. Sedgwick,
tint a committee (hoald be appointed to-whom
the papers refpefting the persons fleoing from
julice, fbould be retciTed, with inftruftions to
report a bill or bills, a general provi
sion in cases of perfuns charged with felony,
treason, or other crimes, who may flee from a
Hate having cognizance thereof, &c.
The schedule of the census was referred to
a committee of the whole House, and'made
the order oflbe day for Monday next.
The other papers referred to in the message
of the President, received yesterday, were then
read, viz. An ast of the Itate of North-Caro
lina, coding a tract of land For the use of the
United States, for the crc£!ion of light4>oufes—
and the reports of the commandeis on the ex
peditions against the Indians.
On motion of Mr. Sedgwick a committer
was appointed to bring in a bill to provide
for the regulation of the pod-office and pof!
roads, confiding of Media. Livermore, Clark.
Steel'*, Bourne, (R.l.)Tharcher.
Mr. Williamfoa'i motion, for a eotnmutf.-
10 l<ri:i~ in a bill to amend the aclfor prom'-w.
in ; i i.- of the ufeful arts, was'adopted,
nvl i In* following gentlemen appointed, Mess.
VVillia: ilon, Hillhoufe, r.nd ScJ^w'ic'*.
AiVnirned to Monday eleven o'clock.YbtfoUovi,,# was commitwattd, by me/a*e, to the House 0 f Rfprtftnlativa on Fn
daylyt, by the Pr.jicLtM df the United. States.
\vl»crledumber ofiPerfons withinthe several Diftr;£h of
theUnitnd State*, *ccwi«iK To«n Ajft " Providing forthe Enumeration of
tft* IrthWxtaait^ofthe United-States," pal Ted March tKc Ift, i 7
D L-ST*. ICTS
J* V'EfcfcONT,
"N* w-"H\n is hj* *,
\ 'fit a'<sa c HVJi'ITS,
RH^'DX-ISLAND,
BTtw-Y,o*n,
TtP. W-Ji *SI Y,
Pennsylvania,
De laware,
NU«vu«II,
f V IJICINIA,
NTBCJiY,
NQKTO'pAJIOI.IKA,
au HA,
Georgia,
1 5''3 6 5l 35,691
.Truly ftaftd (tom the origfrial Returns depofiud in the OfSct of the Secre-
State.
• THOMAS JEFFERSON.
Oaober 84, 1791.
• Thit return W*l not fignedby the MirCul, tat wa» indofed and referred to in a letter writ
ten and figaedrby Moa
For the Na^iotrMh Gazette. |
An account of a titrfon horn a S'tgro, or a |
very dirlM* lit to; who aftenMrds be
came white.
<ty Cit>* LE «HSv. P*A e .
' J HIS person refidcs at Mr.Bfoodf-
A worth.'* it) Somerset county, Ma
ryland, .where 1 saw and can varied
with him, a" few Weeks (inoe. He is
commonly callad James. Certificates
can be had from gentlemen of charac
ter to the following purpose, as'l had
it from them: James was born in Charles
county, Maryland, about the year >741,
of a.black negro mother. His father
was-*.while man, as James fays, and as
all belief*. His birth was at Ignatius
Bowman's, and he fuceeflively belong
ed' folKfftt'd'Mr. 1 Sowman, a William
Bowrrtan, "a Mr. Hancock, Thomas
Ifcrpevctu, Col. William Hopewell,
arid John Blood fworth, where he is
at ptefcMt. He was of a black or very
darkvtolatto colour tiH he was about
15 ye*Tsof age,tvfaen fomc white spots
bnhis (kin, and which have
line* gradually increased; Co that at
this time his (kin is entirely white from
head to foot, excepting a few brown
fpelka, like molca, *nd some blotches
of a dark mulatto colour on his cheek
bones. Concurring in the above par
ticulars, James adds of himfelf, that he
was bom with some whits locks as hair
on Ms head, which Hill remain. That
he had a Child, which is in Charloa
withfuch white spots of
hair on his head.
Itk/alflt wfeH ascertained, by num
ber* with whop* I converged in the
neighborhood of James, that from their
own knowledge, abow fixfeen years
ago, ho hichaomnore white on him than
there is nowwf black. He has a negro
wifcSnd IfcVeral children by her, now
living. Thcfe are all black as negroes
commoply are. But he knows not the
condition of the obild he left in Charles
county f»whether there has commenc
ed irty tfhSnge in the colour of his skin,
as the spots in the hair might promiie.
Jarries is about fifty years old, his
hair Is black, with a few white spots
short and much curled (more like a
mulatto's than a negro's); the white
spots ca his head, and two while spots
of hair on his chin, give him an odd
appearsnpe ;he gave me the following
accoiint 0/ th 6 changes—a portion of
tftc fclick becomes of a rcdaifh brown
IHI*
|c» - v'i.
s S3
ffS-S. v.
>- a
Js-e
ft a'
> a' !?
• >■
1$?
?Sfc
Si*.'?
S N-
aa,4aß
W»'s»
*1,7#
»5,799:
54,403'
78,122
i°5 )j 948 |
1 »43-
5»,339,'
*'*6,1:35.
**057)
77vj06 i
M*o44
£»
24,384
9&, m
ip,019
. £p>6 2 3
»L0,7.<8
'**,7^3
no,()j6
164*04
6 8»9 88
! *3<*o&
40,f.0.i
70,-l*so
46, "70
r '9P«B:'
: 3*1652
;« 1 7T 448
'159.320
; °3> 23 7
( "05,363
1 22,38/!
101.395
215,046
28,922
140,710
25,739
& 8.
a. S-
<->
V *
n?
eg' 3 3
(ft*
H
II
lifl
shi
Igs*
ff&S*
:> <
cotourby degrcfes, and remains so about
fix months, when "it changes furthef
and becomes white—upon this change
the white parts are very tender,, and arc
Ibon burnt by the Tun, even to theif
becoming fore for a while: and after-
Wards the white, which now is nearly
the whole of his (kin, is more tender
*nd more fufceptiblc of injury from the
fun, than it used to be in the black
spots. He added, that the changes of
colour, from black to white, have been
much more rapid of late than formerly.
His Ikln is of a clear wholesome white,
fair, and what would be called, a better
Jkin, than any ps a number of white
people who were prefeni, at dilferent
times when T law him.
c. W. P.
OEbobcr so, 1791.
.Ttrjii and CWifiMi at.hy Ike Prefuiert of
the United Siairi, tilt jtvtnt.tmk day *f Oth -
her, Jeventeen hundred and ninety-one, for re
gialin* it' Materijff and Manner ,f ,h,
Building« and ItHfrwemttoi CM the Lett in rbe
City •/ tfjfiingtct.
I(I.»TpHAT the o«tfr and party-wills of all
J. houses within the (aid city dull br
built of briclc or (tone.
»d. That 111 building! oh the (treats (Jiall be
patshrl thereto, and may be advanced to the
line of the street, or withdrawn therefrom, at
•he pleafute of the improver. But where any
luch building >1 about to be ereflej, neither the
foundation or party-wall Ikall be begun, with
out firlt applying to "the person or ferfont ap
ointrd by the coirHtiiffioner# to foperintenJ the
juildinga within the eity, who Will afc*rtaii>
the lines of the walla to correspond with ihefe
regulations.
3d. The wall of no house to be higher thjn
forty feet To the.roaf, In airy part of the citj j
Dcr fliall any be lower than thirty.fire feet oil
any of the aveaurs.
b4th. That the person or persons appointed by
r. tommiffiooers to fopeiintend the buildings
ay enter on the land of any person, ta set nm
the foundation and regulate the -w»lla ta be built
bnweeaparty and patty, at to the ana
thereof : which footidaiioa (hall bf
(aid equally upon the LnJs of the peribnt be
tween whom such party-walls are to be built.
«tid (bait be ofthe brrsdth and ftlcknefi dctei
mined try foeh person proper ; am) the firlt
builder lhall be reimbursed one moiety of ihel
charge of luoh patfy-wali, or (o much thereof
as th* neat builder liall have occasion to mtfce
ufc of, before such neat bu!]d*rlhall any wavt
4rfe or breelt Into the The charge'or va
lue thereof t*» be ft* by tht person *t perfcns so
appointed by the commifionerj.
sth. At temporary convenieapea will be pro
per/or lodging wo kmen and fecurlng maurials
Ifor building, It it to be underltood that I'vsJt
may be with the epprVbat'too of tt(e
comraiHionert : But they may bo removed or
.iilcon;»autd by the fptcial older of the c jjnmif
fiooarl.
•xs. «
a
•I
Slaves
Total.
i 6
'58
none,
none.
948
a,764
=>,324
1, »-1S3;
3,737
8,887,
103,036
252,627
12,430
100,572
29»*&4
8 5.539
141,885
9 6 .5401
37 ®-.7 8 7J
68,825
2 37.946
340,1 so
184,139
434 >3 73
59-®9 !■
519,728
M 7. fi »o-|
73. 6 //-/
393.75 1
82^548
a 5*
.53#
.6.463
e.#o*
4;6.51
2,762
6037
3»°Qq
8,013
12,866
11.1
4,97;
39*
rr
f
r
«-»
\s,i * t ■
Slaves.
Total.
6h. Th* way into th* (quart* being design,
I ed in a special manner for the common life and
conteiiente of-the occupiers of the refpec}
tive f^uaicij the propter i» the fame it
reserved to the public* so that chert nay be an
immediate interference on any abuse of (he ufi
thereof, by any individual, ,to the of
obftruOion tyf oth«r«. The propfincora K th<
lots adjoining the entrance into the {quarts, in
arching over the entrance, and Axing on gatei
the manner the comtniflionera (hill appr*vei
lhall be entitled to divide the fjpace over the.
arching and build it up with the range of that
linj l^e
7th. No vault* /hall be permitted under the
rtrceti, nor an) cncroachmcnti on the foot-way!
above, by ftepa, ftoope, porches, cellar-doora,
windows, ditches, or leaning-walla , nor Hi all
there be any projection over the street, other;
'than the eavei of the haulai, without the con-j
! sent of the coramiflionera.
Sth. Theife regulations are the terma and'
i conditions under. JLnd upon which conveyances;
'are to be made, accouiing to the deeds in trust,
of the lands within the city,
Qftv ty* GEO. WASHINGTON.;
PHILADELPHIA;
October 31.
Hii Excellency William Pattiioi'»Efq.
is unaAimoufly re-elected Governor of the State
of New-Jersey.
Saturday l»ft John Kiah, Esq. of South
'Carolina, was chosen Cafbier of the Bank
of the United State?.
Lift week arrived in thit city irom London,
tij New York, Mr. H \mm.nd, commissioned
with Certain powers from the Court of Great-
Britain to the United Statea of America.
Mr. Hammond, the Britiih Envcj, has it in
commission to conclude a treaty of commerce be
tween England and thit country. The outlines
6f ttys treaty have been already difcuilcd, and
we learn that some very conliderable commercial
advantages are held out to America as tht balls
Of it, which will in time supplant the greater
part of tlx trade of Russia with England.
The Governor of this state has been pfeafed
to appoint Bcmamij. C ir w, £fq. one of the
Judges, and PreCdent of the high court of Xcrort
1 and Appeala.
Different accounti recently received from the
i Indian Country mention several petty a£ta ol
I huftiiit) committed by fkullcmg parties of the
Indians. Four men have been killed with I* a
few milei of the town ot' Marietta, and-one other
'some miles further down the' Ohio. The, peg
► pie on the Frontiers, however, it it said, are *01
ippreheofive of any considerable attack from
. the lavages, aa the movements of the weilean
army have served aa an effectual check to theic
invasions.
1 The latest accounts front French Hifpaniola
represent that Uland at in a state of the utmost
confufion, froin the infurreQion of the negroes,
alt trade being at a fHnd, the commercial ves
sels detained in port, and the blacks meditating
In attack' sspen Cape Francoil itfelf, which was
it is said, so Jtrongly fortified at Co leaar. the in
habitants under little or no apprehension of any
attempt of that kind succeeding.
Sevecal buildings, confiding of (tables and hay j
lofts bate been consumed in thia capital in the
course of the preceding, wreck. Attempts have '
been made to set others on fire by placing coals 1
thctein, which were, however, happily dis
covered before any material damage waa done. '
A proclamation has since been ilfiied by his Ex- <
tellency the Governor of this Dare, offering a I
reward ot live hundred dollars for the discovery
of any person or persons concerned in these ne
larioaa attempts.
We bear from New-York that on the 14th
loftant, late in the evening, a building in Broad-
Sweet (a starch manufactory) took fire by some
accident, and was entirely consumed By the
kOivity of the Citizens, tbe flames were pre
vented frem spreading any farther.
Extraß of a letttr from Priaeetcn, Ntxu-Jtrfrti
Hatod Ofict.r 14.
" I have read over that part of the French
author, you was so obliging as to lend roe, which "
relates to his nbw THtoir of fjbf tidki.—
Lunar attraClwn has been hitherto received by all
Philofophera as the true and onijr caofe of the i<
periodical swell observed in the main ocean we ,1
call tides. Newton, however, ought in some
degree to be excepted, who candidly fays in his "
Prinapia, that the analogy of the tides to the v
motion of the moon it not so exafi, but that he "
It convinced there it some ether biddtn cause in
nature, which at leal) adits tbe aieon in pro
ducing this remarkable apitearance. That hid
den cause the French Fhilofopher pretends to
have fully discovered, and demoaftratea that
Idea of lunar attraction it falfe and absurd, and
that the pr.acipal,if not the only, caefe of the
tides in the several oceans artfea frem the thaw
ing of the immense circle of polar ice, which it n
pariially and alternately diflolved every year ac- ,i
cording as the fan is on the north or sooth (Ue I;
If the equator. 1 own, laa aim oft a convert
to the Frenchman's Of iniona, and am convinced '
that the major pert of bit arguments will not be '
tafily confuted. If the mooc really eAed upon .'
the lurface of tbe octao'in Che manner we ha*,
been taught to believe, Ihe would undoubtedly
molt attract thohs parts nf (he waters dlreOly
under her I where*., experience everyday teas Is- |
es. ut that the tides, dew by far the (nghrt in >
»be more northern latitudes, while In the "
equatorial parts they are fcarceiy perceptible. I
am glad tn hear the work it now translating in I
Philadelphia, and epnaltt appearance intra In- I
gliflj drelit I fi-certly hope that the peroral
.thereof may at fully gratify and entertaift other
ledgers at it has dune visit fee."
Utitr ii«j i.-tm rarer* re in ten r Crry or Sat unit J
from a Mrrrbant Mew-Tor*, on unrdH i
Jtom TO Air A is at follow t :—
" A veftel it arrived at Boflon, which left
theCtpe the 15th of September, the Captain M
which repeats, that in a formidable attack onthe
negroes,juft before he left it, the whites «.ete de-
(*>tad with rti» Mi «f near fit honored men,
killed and wounded) and that the Brttifli {hips
from Jamaica, in attacking a fort pofi'rffed by
the Ntfiwi ncir the Cape, wara very much da
maged, beat off, and one frigate nearly funk."
■ 11l lllltil I ■
10.
S i a,
'I SEO that yov Will be plc»fe< to make tt pub
licly known'to the drttans of tk United 3t«JCs
that all the American (hipping, carrying Tttyc
r»( Bec. to the porta -«f Gm'r*jj and J'rftj tfe
ftsijeft to feiroreimder an ad of Parliament hi
the reign of Charlea the Second, that they wMf
{Overn themselves accordingly.
I have the honor to-aflure yon that I ato «Mi
the moll perfect refpelt,
-Sir,
Your moll obedient and
mod humble fervent,
JOSHUA JOHNSOK.
Thomas Jir»taseii, Ef<j- .f r
Extrafl of a littir fr»m Nmw-Jtrfo, OR. 17.
" We are in high Jpifits an tte fubjtQ of the
[rand manufactory, the ellaUiffimcnt of which
1 meditated in this Rate. Certain it ft, that in
1 territory like our's (deprived at wetre of the
idvantages of external commerce) agriculture
ind manufactures ought to be tftfe'tnaifl
if our porfirit. The former is pretty Well at
ended to in mofl parts of the ftata j the laltar
hamefully negleded, although , in aiir circ«m.
lances, nearly as-neetfffary as the other tb~ifb«
velfare of the community. Several place* IM
allied of at the feat of the manufactory, tdKiirg
vliich are, Kingston, Spotfsvood, Newark,
ind Brunfwick. Plenty of wood and a large
I ream of never faffirig water are the great drfi
lerata towards supporting an Americas nana.
"aClory j particularly the latter, ai many of th*
•orks (hould be made to go by water to faro rhe
ipenfe of manual labour. In bath these cortvtni
"ncies we at lea4t«?aal any Hate In the anion, and
■nay therefore (if properly fuppnrted in-other
elpett s by the adj acenrfhren) rationally hope for
ruccefi.**
A town meeting it notified in one of the
Boston.papers, to he held on the e6tk inflMM,
when, among other article*, the fabject ef itv-
Uructmg their rsprefeniativea-ao endeavour to
ctte& a repeal of an ait for preventing Then
irical Entertainment*, will he difcufled.
Extra&of a letter from Albany, dated Oft. 20.
" It now appears that axanal is pra&cablc
From Wood Creek to the Mohawk River, for
boat* of ten or twelve tons bifrfhen,
will enable them to penetrate nearly to lie
western extremiti-1 ol this ftatt. All thu may.
>e accompliflied at the moderate expence of
sbout twenty-five hundred pounds. -The dtf
tance between the two waten doea not qutrh
Exceed one mile, and the ground wery level.
The speedy completion of this grand objcS
kill conduce greatly to the future profperwy
bf the city of Albany, and notwithflanding the
|caloufy of our ancient rival at the mouth of
the Hudfbo, we may reafpiubly expeit ktCtx
|o be confldered as a port of no small confe
rence in point ef foreign trade. A pro)e6l«d
deepening of the Overslaughs, by ronning out
piers on each fide, will also contribute to efta
blilh our independency ip Ihe impottatioa at
the productions and manufactures of every
country."
Accounts by the ibtp Delaware, arrived haae
m Saturday from Cbarleftoa, mention the death
1 A Do&orßjor.for many years as eminent {4iy-
Gcian of that place.
City-Hall, PbiUdtlfbit, OR. ji, 1791.
WE the fubferibers, this day appointed kf
the IWkholders of the baak ef the United
States to prelide at tha election of twenty-five
directors tor the bid baak, do hereby certify
that the following gentlemen were dalr eleCted.
James Watson, Joseph BarrMl,
Poilip Livingllon, John Watts,
Ratus King, Joseph Ball,
Nicholas Low, Williaaa Bingham,
Joseph Anthony, Cole si flier,
Heiman Le Roy, Robert Smith, •
Thomas Willing, Archibald, M'Call,
Dr. James M'Clurg, Charles Carroll, C.
Samuel Johnflon, N. C. Charles Pest it,
William Smith, S. C. John id. Nelbm,
Jonarhan Mason, jun. Cabot,
Jeremiah Wadfworth, Fiihar Ames.
John Lawrance,
In witftefs whoteof we have hetV»n*S tK Mil
hands and lcais the day and year 6Bfre#ve
written. , , ~t —
TRISTRAM DALTON, (b.ta>
BAN«K£R,
SAMU£L PCiWEfc, at
At a Meeting bf tha directors of the' bait of
the United StateK—prefbar,
George Cabot,
Tilhn Ames, WUflWtnTNiAMte,
Joaatli. Mason, jun. T*Hes C6)e FlWer,
Joseph Barril, Merman te ; Hbv,
Jeremiah Wadfworth) Jain M. Nefbit't,
Nicholas-Low, Robert frftoitb,
John Wattj, Archibald M'Call,
johb Lrwrince, Charles Peftit,
'RuTus Ktng, Thomaa Willing, j.
Philip Livtiigdoo, Samael Tobnffon,
Joseph Antlfeiny, Wilßani Smith.
Hon. SAMUEt ItmnSTOTJ in die chau.
On a ballot being taken for the choice of -a
President, it »bp*>red that TntJMaii W)L.
LING Wis a'nanlntoufly ehofen.
SAWUrL'JOftRSI ON; CTiaVmart".
. Piuitj. QH. *5, — --■ - ■
At a general mvrting ps the »*fchnMert of
the baak ot the « n lta« State*, held tfttJct«i
H*>», i»' « WedmUay
October »6, 179., in.p«afu«nea ,of natjee gtvan
by the diraOors of th« fsid bank,
Tbdir.i' Willing lf<|. was appointed
man, and Mr. Edward fox, Secretary.On motion as Mr. Duer, of New-York, ft
conded by Mr. Barrill, of Maftachulects,
Refvlvedy that a committee of levca, be ap
pointed to report such bye lawi, ordinances
and regulation* at ft all feera neceflary and con
venient for the government of the corporation,
and that they make fucn report at the next j
meeting.
The members chosen were, Mr. Duer, o/
Ncw-Yoik, Mr. Bingham, of Philadelphia,
Mr. Low, of New-York, Mr. M*Connel, of
Philadelphia, Mr. Smith, of South-Carolina,
Mr. Mason, of Maflachufetti, Mr. Watts,
of New-York.
Rrfolved, That when the said committee are
agreed upon their report, they have the fame |
printed for the use of the Stockholders.
Adjourned to Monday evening next at Cx !
o'clock •
By order of the meeting,
THOMAS WILLING, chairman.
Attest. EowaidFox, Sec'ry.
» •*
Ejvrjft of a letter from dated dug. 20.
«« Notwithstanding whit may be supposed ilia
ardent desire of the Emprelj of Rufiia, it dors
not appear that under her auspices the Rulhan
armies will e»er become cunquerori of Conltan
tinople, as threatened. On the contrary, there
is every profpett of a speedy peace takin/ place
between the Aultrians, Ruffians, and Ottomans.
Tbe hopes of a coupler-revolution in France are
more and moieon tbe decline, and although the
King vf Sardinia is making immense warlike
preparations in favour of supporting the a:ifto
cratic exiles from France, and reftoiing the old
dcfpotic government, the Emperor of Germany
has declined giving them any cA'eAual afiiftancej
It may realonably be concluded therefore, that
the powers of Europe will either not intermeddle
at .11 in the affairs of France, or if they do,
it will be by a negociatiou rather than by violent
measures."
It having been fuggc/lcd to tbe Editor of
tbe National Gaxette that Wednesdays and Sa
turdays are tbe moji frequent days of nnufpsptr
publications in this lApital, be bas on tbst account
varied a little from his original flan, atd changed
tit days of pstblijbing to Monday and Thursday.
Poetical Audkiss to the Public of tbe
Ukitxo States.
THIS age is so fertile of mighty events
That people complain, w.th feme rcafon,
no doubt;
Besides the time 1011, and betides the cxpence,
With reading the papeis they're fairly worn out j
The past is no longer an object of care,
The present consumes all the time they can
/pare— l
Thus rcafons the reader, but dill he reads on,
With his pence and his paper unwilling to part,
He fees the world pa fling, men going and gone,
Some riding In coaches, and some in a cart : (
For a peep at the farce a fubfeription he'll
give 5
Revolutions nut happen—that Printers may
live*
For a (hare of your favor we aim with the reft—
To enliven the scene we'll exert all out fltill ;
What we have to impart xhall be some of the
be ft,
And Multum in Parnro our text*-<lf yon will :
Since we never admitted aclaofe in our Creed
That the greatest employment of life is—
to read.
The King of the French, and the Queen of the
North
At the head of tbe play for the season we find t
From tbe spark that we kindled a flame has
gone forth
To expand thro' the world and enlighten man
kind I '
With a code of new doftiines the aniverfir
rings,
And Thomas il preaching strange feraions to
kings.
Thns launch'd as we are on the ocean of niws,
In hopes that your pleafureour pains will repay,
All boneft endeavours the author will use
To furnifli a feall for the grave and the gay (
At least he'll eflay such a track to pursue
That the world Jhall approve—and bis news
fcall be true.
JV«fa NATIONAL OAZBTTt
The following linat, inferibed under the Bust
of Voltaire, at Pdris, hav. already appeared in
th. General Advertiser. A ParaphrafticalEngliih
traatiation is now added for the more general
faclafa&ion of the reader.
JADIS dans Athenes et Rome
II falloit pour chaque grand ho mm.
Cifeler un marbre nouvcao ■
Ici, I'artift. plus habile
Sous son magique cifean,
A fait revivre en ce motcexo
Sophode, Tacite, et Virgile.
[tiadilatid-]
Athens and Rome in ancient days, we find
For each gieat man a splendid Bull design d»
And, proud feme mark of public praise to give,
Badein the breathing stone their favourites live >
Here, a new genius to our wondering eyes
With magic touch a nobler form supplies (
For, in the image art has copied here
Virgil and Sophocles at once appear,
H=re Tacitus, the chlfTel's art reftoret—
Thus, three great men in one tbe world adores.
It is a glorious sentiment, " That
the people who have resolved to be
free have always been viSorious." The
experience of Switzerland, Holland,
and the United States, vouch for the
fa a.
MEMBERS of the SECOaTD CONGRESS.
„ »
Milmbxxi oftheSxwATi.
Newt-H amp/hire. Delaware.
John Langdon, Richard Baffect,
Pain WtNgate. Oeorge Read.
MafTachufeth. Maryland.
Caleb Strong, Jtfhn Henry,
George Cabott. Charles Carroll.
Rhode-IJland. Virginia.
Theodore Foster, Rich'ard Henry Lee,
joseph Stanton. JaOftet Monroe.
Conrtc&Hht. ' North- Carotin*.
Roger Sherman, Samuel Johnfton,
Oftvtr Benjamin Hawkins.
New-Tork* South-Carolina.
Rufos King, Pierce Butler,
Aaron Burr. Ralph Jxard.
Net* - ferfty. Georgia.
Philemon Dickinl'on, William Few,
John Rutherford. James Gunn.
Pennsylvania. Vermont.
Robert Morrit* ■ «■ ■ ,
Mimihi of the House of Rsrifff HrA-
Tivxa.
New - Hampshire. Delaware.
Samuel Livermore, John Yining.
Nicholas Gilman, Maryland.
Jeremiah Smirh 9 * Jofliua Seney,
Maffacbujatt* Samuel Sterrett, 9
Filher Ames, Upton Sheredinc, 9
Elbridge Gerry, Philip Key,*
Benjamin Goodhue, William Vans Murray*
Theodore Sedgwick, Virginia.
George Thatcher, John Brown,
Artemjs War 4 William B. Giles,
Shearjafhub Bourne. 9 Samuel Gritfin,
Rhode-JJland. Richard Bland Lee,
Benjamin Bourne* James Madison,
Connecticut. Andrew Moore,
J. Trumbull, speaker, John Page,
Jeremiah Wadfworth, Alexander White,
James A. Hillhoufe, 9 Jofiah Parker,
Jonathan Sturgrs, Abraham Venable.*
Amafa Larned.* North-Carolina.
Ntto-Tork, John Baptist Aflie,
John Lawrancr, John Steele,
Egbert Benfon, Hugh Wil'iamfon,
Peter Silvester, William B. Groves, 9
James Gordon, 9 Nathaniel Macon. 9
Thomas Tr»dwell, 9 South-Carolina,
C. C. Schoonmaker. 9 Daniel Huger,
Nexv-Jetjey. William Smith,
Abraham Clark, 9 Thomas Sumpter,
Jonathan Dayton, 9 Thomas T* Tucker,
Elias Bou-iinor, Robert Barnwell 9
Aaron Kitchell. 9 Georgia.
Pennfyl<vania. Abraham Baldwin^
F. A. Muhlenberg, Francis Willis, 9
Thomas Fittfimons, Anthony Wayne.*
Daniel Heifter, Vermont.
Israel Jacobs, 9 Nathaniel Niles, 9
John W. Kittera, 9 ■ Smith. 9
Thomai Hartley, Kentucky comet into tbe
William Findley. 9 union in June, 1792.
Tboft tvitb this 9 mark were not membert of
tbe jirfl Congre/t.
Intelligence received by Capt. Fraicier, trho arriv
ed at Bofion, in 35 days ftnm London.
PARTS.
National Assembly. Sept. v.
A proposed decree was read by M. Beamett,
relative to the presentation of the Ccnftiturional
Chart to the Kfeg, and refpe&ing the liberty
which itia neced'ary to grant to the Monarch, and
the forms and ceremonies which ate to be observ
ed on this occa6on.
Befjre he read bis decree, tbe orator made a
long speech which abounded much lef# with ar
gument and found eloquence, than with high
founding bombast. The nation, (f»y« he) ex
asperated at the risks which you have run, and
(atisfied wich.your condud, awaked like a fove
reign—<he Aretched out her arms and all her
dangers vanished.
He then read, as spokesman for the Commit
rees cf Constitution and Revision, the followinf
articles.
Art. I. " A deputation (hall be appointed to
present the conltitutional adl to the King for
his acceptance.
a. " The King fta!l be requested to give such
orders as he fl»all think necefTary, refpe£king his
guards and the dignity of his person.
3. " If tbe King accede to the wiftes of the
French nation, by accepting the constitution he
Hiall be requested to name the day, and to men
tion the foims to be observed at the time that he
Aall folertinly pronounce in presence of the Na
tional Aflembly, bis acception of Constitutional
Royalty, and his engagement to discharge the
duties attached to it.**
SITTKMIIB 5*
Premutation of tbe Confutation to the King, for
bit acceptance.
The Grand Constitutional Chart is at length
finiihed, and was on Saturday last presented to
the King f who received it with a countenance
in which much outward fatisfadion was depi&ed.
The members met in the hall of the Assembly
at fix o'clock in the evening, but it was half
paft tight before everv thing was ready.
M. Vernier, the President, then intimated,
(hat he had waited on the King, and announced
their intentions, and that his Majesty was read)
to receive them.
On this the depuration moved on towards the
palace of the Thuillertes, between a double row
of national guards, flambeaux preceding, follow
ing, and accompanying them, and martial ma
fic ftrikinj up and continuing during the proces
sion.
[Here follow t a lift of tbe membert empowered
by tbe Afjembly, to present tbe new Confiituttom to
LouitXVl.]
Having arrived at the palace, the deputation
were immediately utbeied into the Grand Coun
: cil-chamber, and introduced to the King, whe
was seated on a throne, surrounded by his Mi I
' nifters, and a great number of other persons of J
» ds£in&ion.
M. Thouret then advanced, tnd fpske at so!
lows 1
" The reprefentidvei of the nation now pre
sent to your Mnjefty the Constitutional AQ,
which consecrates the imprelcriptible right* of
tilr French nation j which gives to the throne
its true dignity, and which organise! the govern,
ment of the empire."
The Kiflg Instantly refilled i
" I now receive the Constitution presented to
me by the National AtTrmbly. I ihall inform
them of my retaliation, aft<r the fhortcft pofliblr
delcy Which the elimination of fach an impor
tant objeO demands.
" 1 am rdfolved to remain in Parla j I lhall
give the necell'ary orders to the Command
General of the natioAiiPatifian troops refpe&ip|
my guards.'*
The deputation haying received th'rf answer,
and M. Thouret having (Iked dnd obtained a
copy of it in Writing, fur the fatisfadion of the
Alfembly, they inffantly returned with the fame
ceremony (hat they had set out.
Yefteriay phe Thuilleriea were opened, all ihr
centinels ported to prevent the entrance of (Iran
gen being removed. 1
A prodigious crovW of eit'tsenr having gome
to the chapdl daring the morning ferViee, on the
entrance of the King and <&een to hear mafi,
! a number of roicea exclaimed, Vive la Nation I
! Vive la Confutation I
HiiMajeOy, who «*»s tikvn unawares', being
unable to hide hia rmunon st this circumlfcnce,
burl) into tears. On' this the audience cried ont,
Vive la Roi! Vive la Liberie! One peifon in
particular pronounVed with a loud and dillind
voice, Vive le Premici Roi Conftitnt'toad dts
Francois !
—
LONDON, Sept. 6.
Declaration of the Emperor; in conjunction
with the Courts of Berlin, London, Mad
rid, Turin, Naples and Peter/burgh.
" The underficned are ordered by
their refpe&ive sovereigns to mafec
known the following :
" That notwithstanding the glaring
force and violence whichboth preced
ed and Succeeded the a&s of consent
drawn from the King of France to the
decrees of the National Assembly, yet
they had with-held their opinions as
to the free will of hi* Christian Maief
ty in the consent above mentioned, but
that the attempt made by that Monarch
to obtain his freedom was an undoubt
ed proof that both his religion and his
will, had been violently forced, and
that the formal arreftine of the King,
Queen, Daaphin and Madame Eliza
beth, occasions grounded anxiety as to
the further views of the oppoftng party.
"That the before named Sovereigns
can no longer forbear cxpre fling their
feelings, and declaring the resolutions
which thev have been induced to take
in the prelent Situation of affairs, and
which the honour of their crowns, the
ties of friendfhip, and the earned wish
for the good order and peace of Eu
rope, require of them, and they have
charged the undersigned Ministers to
declare in theirnames,
" i ft. That they look upon the cause
of the King of France as their own;
that they require that that Prince and
his family be immediately set at liberty,
and free to go where they please, and
to restore to his Majesty that sacred
honour and fubmiflion due from a peo
ple to their Sovereign by all laws of
nature and civil society.
" 2dly, That the Sovereigns will
unite to oppose and revenge any fur
ther attempts against the security of the
persons, or the honor of the King,
Queen, and any of the Royal Family.
"jdly, That they will not acknow
ledge any other constitution as legal in
France but what has the unequivocal
approbation of the kine, given when
he is at full liberty to att as he pleases.
"4thly, Anditnofuch legil con di
lution is fettled, they will jointly use
every means to put an end to that spi
rit of anarchy and confufion so contra
ry to the regularity and good order
which it is the duty of all governments
to cherish and support."
[Signed by the different Mini fieri. J
HARTFORD v Oft. 24.
Last Wednelday, after a full debate,
the House of Representatives repealed
the Certificate Law, passed last May,
by a large majority of votes. The fate
of the bill in the Council was doubt
fill.
Applications are making to the Le
gislature for a purchaft of the Weftem
Lands belonging to the State, so that
the State may now reap some benefit
from them. But it is feared that the
fame mad policy, which has hitherto
prevented the falc of them, will govern
the legislature ; and that under pre
tence of holding them till they rife ia
value, they will be held till the rage
for fpcculation is over, till the monicd
men haV*vcfted their money in other
lands or enterprizes, and then a few
deiigning men will have an Opportu
nity of purthaftng theie lands cheap.
, N E W-Y X) R4L, Oft. .1,
By order of Sir 7okn Tentple, Baroriet,
hit Britanrlic MajeAy's Conftil Gen
eral, throughout the United State*
of America :
INFORMATION it hereby given
For the government of all mailers or
commanders of Britifc/ veffris,• who
may arrive at the porta of the said
United States, that an ast of Parlia
ment of the eleventh and twelfth o{
William the thirci [made perpetual by
he ast of the 9th of George the firftj
■nafts, * that if »nV Mailer of a mer
:hant (hip; lull, during his being a
>road, force any man on {here, or wil
ully leave him behind, in any of hi*
Vlajefty** plantation*,^etfewktrt (ball,
«ing thereof legally convicted, fufcr
hree month* impnib&nfcrft, without
iai> or maiilpriflt."
SHtfutw'i-TowK, "Oft. ii.
A volunteer expedition, under .thd-
Ommand of Brigacuer General Charted
icott, was to reA&zvoua at G4oi-ge-
VoWn (Craig's MtH)«* Thurfdby too
kh day of September 1 ast, with 30 day*
mmfton, it* to go against the
iommon enelhy. Theexpence of this
ixpedition ft not to be defrayed by the
tenerat government, unless fervicea
hould be rendered, which, in the eye
>f Congress, may be thought deserving
>f some compenffttidn.
We learn by some travellers who ar
ived in this tdwn a few days since
ram Wheeling, that the western artrfy
noved from head-quarters at Licking,
>n the fgthinftant, oi\ their way to the
i ndian country, therefore we may flaon-t
yexpeftfome interesting information
rotn that quarter. ■» t
1 * ;i 11 . ''
TO II S6*D, BY
JOHN CAREY,
No. lis, Union-Street,
A COLLECTION OP
Scarce and Valuable
BOOK .8,
much may be day, —tUsa'tUek r'.ij. 1
Aaoaf then an the Wearing t
Ftfit. Honaer, Xenopboa, Plata, Phrtarcb,
iulebiut, Sonmcn, Thaadont, Virgil, HtMt,
.i*y, Tacian, Patercalaa, PUay. Caatoedaa*
ia Lai. Coacord antia Or. Thefaaeoa a car* nil,
liblia Junii * Tremellii, Bible de Mania.
Vella'a Mapi, Scapulae—Phatarini—Marti i—
loffaaHi Lexica, Vaffii Etjaal»|i«ti A»d>
uic. Ecclaf. Britanaita, Ac.
fwrn. Pindar, Cyropcdia, Reatly'i Ha
ter, Terence and Ph*driU, Or id, J»mi),
ifaailloa, Ciccraaia op. om- Cmftr, taaiielaa,
•rial Pollux, Hederici Leakon, VoflU Ari
>ram. Clurerii Geographia, JaftiaiaaCadk.Ac.
Odava 0 infra. Homer, Anacreon, A rift o
lunes, Longinut, Tbeopbrallua, Hcfiod, Pact*
■inorea Gr. liberate!, Pbalaria, Mrim tdilitmt
F Horace, Virgil, Tareaee, «ad Orid, Ti bullae,,
lautui, Lucan, Martial, Claadian, Tal. Ilac
iia, Aufonius, Buchanan, Sailuft, Cartlue,
lorua, Jurtln, Val. Maximut, A. Calllua.
lift. August. Seriptorea, KwfHJb and track
'r**JUrim of Tome of tbe Clatfict, a si«f i« va-
Irty of Oreek and Latin Grraiaiera. at. kt.
fj" Cateloguea may be had ofMeflri. Rice &
to. Bookfelleri, Market. Araet, or of
JOHN CAREY.
oa. 31.
litis day ia Publifhod,
By CHILDS and SWAINE,
In one Volume Octavo ;
Price One Dollar mm J t btf, tb« small Editiaa,
tnd Om DJt+r n<i thrrt jwtrttri tbe large.]
T a a
LAWS of the Ukitid States.
Collated with, and corrected by tbe origlaal Rolls
in the Office of tba Secretary of State.
With a copious INDEX ; or
V complete DIGEST of the LAWS;
(Making 56 pageat) ,
Exeeated by an eminent Law Cbarader.
[*o obtain thia ufetal a«d neeeffair Part ef the
Work complete, bat retarded tbe Pablicatiaa.
Tiii Vehimt cimfrbm tht ABt tf »*» Thtrr
tf tkt fir} Cngrtfi | tjfi, r*t fadrra/
«W lit Trfin tiiiam <*« Unittd
Ustn «aJ Fttif Naii—t—Ttgrtktr aUn Af
ttnH», tit Dtel—mtUn tf Mtft*i
met, mud fwHtiry Ordintmcn mti Mrfiilvti tf C:a-
Ttft nadir tkt ConfrJtratim.
Said ij CUld, and S-mmm, Nt BiM
frter, 'Jitmat Dobfta, Vili CrukAaak, and
ttbtri Campht /, ehi'uJt'.fhia*
ORtltr *5.
Printed bvCHILDSandSWAXNE,
it their Office, No. a«q, High-Sueet,
between Sixth and Seventh-Streets,
Philadelphia.