Vol. I.
A R A T U £>•
NUMBER lIIJ
THE alien t of the king to the confti
tution presented him by the na
tiohal assembly, has completed tin
French revolution. * By this event
which has terminated in the- establish
ment of a free government, the..cffptt
of that body have been crowned witl
success. They have fully accompli fhe<
the object they had in view. Tpthi
Unerring teR of time, the only tribu
rial which-can impartially decide upoi
its merits, the rcTult of their labors i
now submitted.
The magnanimity with which thei
closed their long and brilliant career
mufi have gained the applause of al
parties ■; and by extirpating every-fourct
®f dilcontent, given liability to theis
government. The ast of oblivion and
indemnity, which followed with a kind
cf er.thufiafm the fignatijre of the king,
has cast an additional lustre over their
whole proceedings, and exhibited to
the world the lafk remaining proof, in
jheir power, of their patriotism and
benevolerrce. The mere degradation
of "the characters around the throne,
was not in it felt a consideration worthy
their attention ; the freedom of France
•Was the object ; and h-avtng secured it
to all her citizens ; even thofo who had
(Jifturbed their councils, and embar
rassed their operations, might comc in,
mingle m the crowd, and enjoy theblef
fi n g*
From the. contemplation of this great
event, if v/? cast our eyes on thole,
wherever they relide, who in the pro
prefs, attacked the principles, and en
deavored to prevent its liittels, wtrar
In ast be the refle&ion of the pious and
benevolent ob.ferver! Will pad fervi
ccs, reverend age, or even accumulated
honors rcfcue them frt»m the indigna
tion of an offended people ? In the ca
talogue of those moil distinguished in
the opposition, the public have been
mortified to find the name of Edmund
Burke. For a rapid and elevated style
of elocution, disinterested republican
patriotism, and general philanthropy,
in the British Senate, he has long en
gaged the attention, and held the con
fidence of the moll virtuous throughout
the civilized world. But how do the
principles contained in the book he has
given Lto the public correspond with
that character ? Or how shall we ac
count for such a change of feothnsat ?
Happily for mankind, and to his eter
nal reproach, the success ot tins revo
lution has given him a silent but galling
reply; and whilst its blessings shall be
acknowledged and cherished by a grate
ful posterity, this performance which
would otherwise have been ccnfigned
to oblivion, will be handed down as
an incident to that great event to per
petuate his infamy.
That the plan of government thev
have given to their country, is the molt
eligible that can, or could have been
adopted, will not be contended. But
that it contains within it, tne elements
of a found and excellent constitution.
with the sure means of progressing tc
perfection, may be demonstrated. On
the one hand, we find the rights of tne
people guarded, by wife fundamental
declarations, from encroachment, and
on the other, the king accepting his
cnpwn with all, the authorities depend
* The. king's a flint was not necefiary to esta
blish the revolution ; it was Co only tQ afcer.
tain the fatt, whether he would serve in that 0.-
tice as now modified or not. And in cafe he
had declined, which as a free man he bad a
r i- lit to do, his only claim on the naiion, in ad
«!iiion to his private patrimony, would have
been for fpmc competent fettlcment in land ot
money'. A claim too founded more on their li
berality tlwn juilice. It seems reasonable thai
the habits and manners acquired m their iervice
without his leekingit, fliauld never Sail;
liurthen on himfelf.
By PHILIP FRENEAU.
MONDAY, December 12, 1791.
ant on it, from them.+ The vices of an heredi
tary monarchy corrected by the ftiemjth and
force of a numeious and poweiful representation
ot' the democracy; and that reprelentation
founded on the most equal, just and enlightened
principles. The right ot lupply or contribution
lecured to them. The privileges o the arifte
cracy abrogated, and its,members reduced, if a
reduflion it can be called, inteTt'ne common.oi'dc«
pi other citizens. The clergy reformed and rc
floreJ, in fiwne niealiire, to the primitive pmity
and Cmplicity of the firil fathers' of the chrrftia!
faith. The local municipalities' or province
dissolved, and the whole formed iffl'o one great
nation. So that, altho' this plan may not b<
allowed f,he merit'of p"rfeSion, as a model, ye
it mud be admitted ta be an excellent tfvog tc
commcnce with.
[f we may be permitted to efhmate its forrorit
by the example of other ceflmcie.s, it will b
found, that foVthe -attainment of'a gitfen end
the security of-the liberties of the people, as we!
in the out-line as the interior modification o
its branches, are to be 'discerned the firongef
proofs of political wifdorn. The extent of thi
representation, which will engage the bed)' a
the people, and bring them forwardimreediatclj
in its operation, is well calculated to put thi
government into motion upon found principles
It will give thfc'm an early'knowledge of th-c:
own weightin theTcale ; and feeling it them
selves, a ccttefpor.dcnt irapreffion will be fet>t
sett by their'rcprefeniatives. Had it been thin
and formed as it eventually ivught, fioni the mo
nied inteteft and the funds, the blessings of th<
revolution might have been loft. The door foi
venality artd cfarruptaon would have been laic
wide open, and the influence of the court ioor
felf in the election and vipon the operations o'
the national aflembly. Deriving their appoint
ments from a different source, but little regarc
would have been paid 'to tlte iiiterefis of ther
nominal ronflitucr»s ; and thus every principle
of refponfibihty have been deftioyed, and the
servants of th-'s people become a new inftru
ment of their eppfefiion.
The iontroul df the alone
hands of t fie n'anowal v. ii'i f>e .-o-iri-j ai
ampls reflraint upon the movements of the ex
ecutive. It may plan fchenres of con'pie-ft a
broad and tyranny at home, but whit ft it de
pends on the deliberations of a body, thus or
ganized, for the means of executing them, they
will be late. Even the dissolution of tbfc provin
cial afTemb]ies may pe conlidercd ar, favorable
jo the democratic mtereft. Commanding t
portion of their confidence, eVith a hereditary
monarch on the jlrrone, they might have bcei:
tampered with to the prejudice of the people,
it has left the national affeinkly the sole deposi
tory and offfy guardian of the public rights. Will
not this awaken, on the part of the people, <'
more vigilant attention to iheir conduct, and 2
keener sensibility cf injury ? Will not that body
too be more deeply nnprelfrd with the impor
tance of the'truff reposed in them, and feaiful ol
the their conffi'tuents :
But the abolition of the aiillocracy has torr.
up, as it were, by the roots, an mexhaufnMc
source of public difaflers. Ihe hillory of thai
order in thole countries where it hasexifled, pro
perly developed, in 1 elation to its effect upon
focietv, whether it eterived its origin from
usurpation 01 convention, would prove an ufeful
wotk. It would (hew that molt of thofecala
miiies uliich have scourged 'he different nation;
of the earth, have owed their birth to its pride
and ambition. Its mere existence, as it is found
ed in derogation of the rights of the other cla<Je.'
of focietv, upon different principles and with
different'inte'refts, muff uniheath the fwoid ol
civil difeord. It was worth the hazaid of a re
volution to extirpate the privileges of fhat corps.
The unity of the legiliature by the experience
of America, has been found in many refp'eft."
objetlionable, but more particularly, as it de
prives the subject of a fecend examination by a
different body, and who paitake not of the party
spirit and heat of the former. The demonftra
uon here .has been deemed fatkfaQory, that foi
the attainment of wife legislation, the powei
should be distributed into two branches, and lr
conlequcncc, thole ftatts who had adopted a dif
ferent-principle, have reformed their refpeffive
contusions. 'Tis probable, however, that th:
danger of falling on the English expedien*, o!
hereditary legislators in a house of lords, incli
ned them to decide in favor of one only.
The most exceptionable part of their govern
ment. and which bears he strongest marks o!
compromise and accommodation to ancient pre
judices, is the heirfbip of the crown. But a
+ I' : s a new thing to fee kings talte charters
from th * people. I: has been otherwise for
ereat length of time. Indeed in but few cotin
tries have the people any thing to (hew againil
the tyranny of the crown ; that they have one
which they call their -nat ckzrte , has long been
the be;a(l of the Ertl*"'••
perFecl reform could not nave been exp-"£ted :
eWntbe people were not perhaps prepared for
it : much'has bten done, and tirtfe and experi
ence wifl correH :'s defects.
Upon -a Mirfoiy review, therefore, of the
piinct-ples of the government, it appears -thvu t he
liberties of France have been placed ob a 'fccure
k;lis. A npw political balance has beer) created
between <!ie people and an hereditary
otilv ; iiDd upon luch principles, that it is to be
p'cfarned, inthe operation, thelcaleof the fpr
r-.'ef writ preponderate As soon as this fhjllbe
t bUjftied,. its eff'efts will be felt through every
I'-pattrnent, and five a tone to all its meahires,
No mktifter will be able to preserve his flntior
v.ithoutfbe confidence of the national,illiinbiy.;
rxir in pjeneral will any be appointed who de
no.' eollefs it. Their approbation wii! be tht
high road to prefei merit; and to this, as the only
'iDurce of power, will the candidates for public
f{,»or, of every ran'< and description of irien
:rVirets fhemfelves.' Those degrading an-, 'vhic 1
had formerly recommended them to the throrie
■fill be laid alidc. Ullefslheir claim (hall N
i'imncted on tht balfs of public merit, it will be
rejected. The king will (land alone with litih
:]ior£ jhan the right of nominating to ofhee, thoh
Vlho will be responsible for the ordinary ?dmi
mftration ; and if he does not prcferve the coil
Ij'dcncd of the pe.ople, will, in lornc mcsfure b<
ijeferted. In cafe of variance, there will be nc
:;itermediare branch to fiiield him from dan
jcr ; no ariflocratic corps to gather round anc
him'from their refentm<ent. l.ven fh<
dergy will give the preference, in their prayers
alhe national alfembW.
i As" the friend of humanity, 1 rejoice in thi
iVfnch revolution ; but as the of Ame
nca, the grati.ficarion is gieatly heightened
"Vom a variety of circumOances, I have beei
id so believe] that if their effoi t had failed, tlv
niarfiiry would not have been confine to them
elves alone, but have communicated its def
active influence to the noble fabric we hav
med.
The fate of the two governments has appear
d to be intimately linked together; and thpt o
<mer tfepf mWit-em the other. What these c:j
umftances are, that fljQuld warn every good re
)Ob.hcap to (land ofi h ; .sgjjard,-niay be Jevelone
lereafter. 'Tis a lcflon not now to be taught, (he
n times of the greatest Iplefldaur, the dCepei
iraends have been given to the public Itbertv.
ARATUS.
PHILADELPHIA,
CONGRESS.
HOtISE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, Dec. 7.
The amended bill making appropria
:ions for the support of government so
1792, was twice read, and ordered t(
jc engrofled for a third reading to-mor
row.
Petitions were read from Willian
Leeds and Griffith Rces, praying relie
'or wounds received, &c. in the arm)
iuring the war—Referred to the Secre
tary at War.
A petition from Thomas Geese, pray
ing re-imburfement for duties paid or
damaged teas, imported by him—Re
ferred to the Secretary of the Treafurv
A petition from Elijah Boftwick
praying re-imburlement of costs of fu.it
incurred on account of supplies by hinr
purchased for the army in the time o:
the war —Referred to Mr. Sylvester
Mr. Key, and Mr. Grove.
A petition from Henry Emanuel Lut
terloh, praying his former petitions foi
allowance of pay as colonel in the army,
during the late war, may be re-conlider
ed—Ordered to lie on the table.
According to the order of the day,
the house then resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole (Mr. Smith
(S.C.) in the chair) on the bill for elta
blifhin g the poft-office and post-road;
within the United States.
Mr. Sedgwick moved for an amend
ment in the firft feftion of the bill, and
after lome debate, the question being
taken on the motion, it was negatived.
The speaker having resumed the
chair, Mr. Smith reported progress in
the bill, and asked leave to fit again to
morrow for the further confidcration ol
the fame. Adjourned.
Numb. 13.
Thursday, Dec. 8.
The appropriation bill was read the
:hird time, pafled, and Tent to the Se
nate for their concurrence.
A memorial of Aaron Cook was read,
praying? relief in consideration of a
wound" received in the American service
during the late war, by which he is in
rapacitated from gaining a livelihood by
abor —Referred to the Secretary at
War.
Memorials were read from several So
cieties in the {late? of R'node-Ifland,
Connecticut, Kew-York, Pennsylvania,
Maryland a n< i Virginia, " for promp
ting the abolition of slaVery, for the re
lief of free negroes unlawfully held in
bondage, and far improving the condi
tion of the African race and rel'pec
tivcly praying that the African-trade
nay be totally prohibited to the citizens
sf thqfe United States for the fupplv of
[laves to foreigners ; that foreign imps
letlined for the slave trade may be pro
hibited from fitting in the ports ol the
United States ; and that proper regu
ations may be adopted for the humane
:reatment of imported into the
(lites admitting luch impprutipns-r-Re
ferred to Mr. Be'nfon, Mr. Baldwin,
Mr. Dayton, Mr. Smith (S. C.)and Mr.
Learned.
The petition of Henry Emanuel Lut
crloh, read yeftcrday, together with
:he Secretary at War's report of May
zo. 1790, on a former petition of laid'
Lutterloh, was referred to Mr. Grove,
Mr.' Schoonmaker, and Mr. Bourne, *
R.hode-Ifland.
According to the order of the day,
:he house then resolved itfelf into cora
nittee of the whole, on the further
:oniidcration <Jf the pod-office bill—>
when,' after some time spent therein,
he main pod-road through the United
States was agreed upon as follows : To
to through Wrfc&fiftt, Portland, Portf
noiith, LKc-ter, Newbury-Port, Ipf
with,' Salem,. Boston, V/orcefter,
Springfield, Hartford, Middletown,
Mew-Haven, Stratford, Fairfield, Nor
walk,Stampford, New-York. Newark,
Elizabeth-town, Brunfwiek, Princeton,
r-renton, BridoJ, Philadelphia, Chester,
Wilmington, Elkton, Charleftown,
tiavre-de-Graee, Harford, Baltimore,
Bladenfburg, George-Town, Alexan
iria, Golchefter, Dumfries, Freder
ckfburgh, Bowling-Green, Hanover
"cmrt-Ho-ufe, Richmond, Petersburg,
Halifax', Tarborough, S'.nithfield, Fay
:tteville, New-Bridge, over Drowning-
Cheraw-Court-House, Camden,
statefburg, Columbia, Cambridge, Au
;ufta, Savanna.
The committee then proceeded to
:onfider the crols-pofts, mentioned in
he bill, and aft«r proceeding, therein
or some time, the fpeakcr relumed the
ihair, and Mr. Smitii, chairman of the
:ominittec, reported progref3, and asked
eave to lit again on the bill to-morrow.
Adjourned.
Friday, Dec. g.
A report from the Secretary of State
was laid before the house, on the peti
ion of Samuel Breck, and other pcr
"ons, proprietors of a manufa&ory of
"ail-cloth in the town of Boston, in
which they had requested the grant of
in exclusive right to affix certain marks
:o the fail-cloth of their manufa&ui'e,
which should not, under certain pe
lalties, be adopted or used by any
Dther manufactory. It was proposed in
:he Secretary's report, that a general
regulation, in refpe£t to the apprppria
tion of marks, should be fixed on. The
report was read, and laid on the table
for further consideration.
A message was received from the Se
nate, by Mr. Secretary Otis, return
ing the bill apportioning the repre
sentation of the people of the United
States according to the firft enumera
tion, which had pafled the Senate with
certain amendments, one cf which i:,that the ratio of reprzfeatation be in
creased from thirty to thirty-three thou
land.—The concurrence of the houfc
was requested to the bill with the
amendments.
According to the order of the day.
the houfc in committee of the whole
then proceeded to the further consider
ation of the poft-office bill.—Mr. Muh
lenberg in the chair—After debating a
considerable time on this fubjeft, addi
tional routs of the port; being proposed.
and sundry motions made relative there
to, some of which were agreed to, anc
others rejected, the committee rose, re
ported progress, and desired leave to
lit again. Adjourned till Monday.
LONDON, Sept 30.
The Declaration of the Emperor and
the King of Pruffta, signed at Pilnitz or
the 27th of August, is circulating at Vi
enna ; in conlequence of which, wt
learn, that Leopold and Frederick Wil
liam have undertaken to restore the li
berty of the King, and the splendor oJ
the French Monarchy ; and that for this
purpofethey undertake to ast with mu
tual accord, in employing the forces ne
cessary for this important purpose.—-In
consequence of this refolution,the chan
eery of war have ordered two large Bo
dies of troops to be ready to march at j
moment's notice, one of which is to take
the route of the Austrian Low Coun
tries, and the other to remain on th<
frontiers till further orders.
M. Montmorin, the French Miniftei
for Foreign Affairs, has formally noti
fied to all the foreign courts, the King':
acceptance of the Constitution.
of the foreign courts have yet though
proper to take any public notice of thi:
notification.
There is hardly a kingdom or state or
the continent but prohibits the impu
tation of French newspapers upon the
fevered penalties. Their folly is almoi
equal to that of a certain antient Senate
Herojlratus had burnt the famous temple
of Diana, in order that his name migh
become immortal. The Senate were re
solved to dil'appoint his wish, and paffec
an cdift, that no person under penaltj
of Suffering death, Ihould pronounce the
name of Heroftratus.—The confcquence
is, that the incendiary's name has taker
root in lli(lory, and will never be forgot
Nothing, is a stronger proof of the
general confidence in the {lability of the
outline of the French Constitution
than the prices at which Church anc
Crown lands have fold. Fromthecom
mencement of the sales, the prices have
been from twenty-five to fifty years pur
chase, the average.about thirty ; and ai
present national property cannot be
bought at lets than thirty-three years
purchase. The price may be eitherpaic
immediately or by regular installment;
in the course of eleven years, but with
five per cent, interest on the balance til!
paid.
The Princes of the German empire
have referred the whole of their con
cerns refpefting the affairs of France
and the proceedings of the National As
fembly, to the Emperor, with a promile
to abide by whatever he shall advise ir
that business.
The illiterate race of Ottoman, ene
mics of all learning, now deprived o
valor, the only virtue they ever pof
fefTed, still retain unfortunately, the an
cient feat of learning, called by the
Greeks Bizantium, afterwards Conftan
tinople, and at prelent by the Turks
Iftambole. The situation of this city
for commerce, is beyond all doubt fupe
. rior to any thing of the kind in Europe
if not the whole world. The Chalcido
nians in the early ages of the Greek em
j ire,hadbuilta townon thcoppoiitefids
oftheStreight,whichis muchlefs conve
liient: A colony of Greeks having emi
grated wellward from the interior part:
of the Lefler Alia, to the countiy aboui
the Ilcllefpont, were a long time ir
search of a lpot whereon to erefta com
ineicial city. Enquiry was at length
made of the oracle at Delphos, who gave
for answer—Build your city diretlly oppo
jite to the town of the blind men. Searcf
was a long time made to no purpose foi
a town inhabited by the blind. A
length, it was discovered that the Chal
cidonians were designated by the ora
cle, and this (fays ancient hiflory) gave
rile to the famous Bizantium—At pre
lent, little can befaid for the remains ol
the Grecian race: tyranny has render
ed them degenerate ; an apathy of sou'
rias funk all their genius ; but it is a pi
y the works of their ancestors should
ie buried in a region where they are
lever used. Many of these works mull
indoubtedly exist. The Baron de Tot!
ays, it is universally believed they ex
ft in "1 heffalonica and Constantinople
nolten lead being run into the locks ol
he repositories, to prevent any person
eceiving benefits from these elegant
ompolitions. What an addition would
t be to the glory of the Empress of Ruf
ia, could,(lie negociate for some of those
vorks, and prcfent the public entire
vith the ideas of the mod amiable and
nlightened of mankind—with the com
>lete works of a Polvbius, a Plutarch,
i Menander, an Archilochus, a Simo
lides, a lacitus, a Livy, or a Tully,
M. de Verac, formerly Ambalfadoi
rom France at Soleure, has religned hi:
iffice. ihe King has not yet appointee
ny person to succeed him.
We arc likewise alfured, that M. di
Tallyrand, Ambalfador from France a
Naples, has alio reiigned.
It still continues doubtful, whethe
vl. de Montmorin will or will no
ontinue in the department for foreigi
\ffairs. It is reported that difpatche
lave been sent to M. dc Choifeul Goul
ier, our ambaflador at Constantinople
o induce him, by all possible mean;
o consent to l'ucceed M. de Montmc
in.
Letters hoTi Kiovia, August 22, althc
iiftering from each other in several parti
:ulars, agree in laying, that the deftinati
>n ol a body of 20,000 Ruffians, unde
he command of Marshall de Ratnanzow
till appeared mysterious, that popula
umour had afcribcd to the corps an in
ention to assist a conhderablc number c
J olifh gentlemen, who arc dilfatisfie
.vith the new constitution. This can
efture had been abandoned ; and it i
low thought, that it is the intention c
lielc troops to cross Poland andGerlia
ly, to proceed towards the Rhine. I
s true, it will not be the firft time :h
Ruffians have undertaken a similar trip
is, in 1 747. By such a procedure,
:ontributed not a little to accelerate thi
peace of Aix la Chapelle. The nevs
lowever, does not the less appear ol ;
doubtful complexion.
r=rrrr.
PARIS, Sept. 26.
The King's acceptation of the Con
litution, and his enlargement'thereup
>n, has diffuled a general joy. In th<
■ejoicingson Sunday evening, the great
.•ft decency, politcnefs, and good humo;
jrevailed ; the populace entirely layin;
ifide the ferocity for which they hav<
>een lately diftinguiflied. The Queen
lowever, was afraid of exposing herfel
:o the hoots and hisses to which she ha:
seen some time accustomed ; but, M. d(
la Fayette assured her she would mcse
■vith nothing but applause ; and so 1
proved when the walked out in tin
evening with the King in the garden o
-he palace. 1 his knowledge of the
disposition of the popular mind, and the
ascendency he has over it, has made the
:ommandant-general (Fayette) regretted
jy the Royal family. It is laid, that the
uppreffion of his post was a great deal
swing to his own management. He was
ealous of any one's holding it after
lim, and wished to disappoint the rivals
,vho aspired to fill his place. As he
mitateshismaftcr, Washington, in eve-
T thing, he is going to retire to the ob
curity of the country, until he shall be
railed to the Mayoralty of Paris, as the
>ther was from the shades of Mount
Vernon, to the Presidency of the United
States of America.
Monsieur Bougainville, the famous
:ircumnavigator, is appointed Minister
as the Frcnch A'larine.
So miserable is the present eftablifh
nent ot the loldiery in England, that
)ur countrymen resident in or passing
hrough that country, as well as others
ire accosted by soldiers at every corner,
•ven at the Prince of Wales's gate in
St. James's Park, desiring in a beggarly
one, the assistance of a few half pence.
Soldrers in general, when pinched for
noney, turn thieves, murderers, &c.
ill which actions suppose some kind of
ourage—Begging is vile, miserable, and
hameful in the extreme. The Prince
>f Wales keeps fix hundred horses
why not some of them and relieve
:he foldiery?—Every foreigner travel
ing into England, cannot but pityana
:ion protedled by a sett Of beggars.
FOR the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
D E P E N D E NT TERRITORIES
ARE of two kinds. Firjl—Such as yield to the superior slate at once a mono"
poly of their uieful productions, and a market for its fuperiluities. Thefcj
by exciting and employing industry, might be a source of beneficial riches, if an
unfavorable balance were not created by the charge of keeping such poffefli
ons. Ihe Weft Indies are an example. Second—thole, which, though yielding al
io a monopoly and a market, are principally lucrative, by means of the wealth
which they heap on individuals, who transport and dissipate it within the fupe
lior Irate. This wealth is not only like the former, overbalanced by the cost of
maintaining its sources , but resembles that drawn, not from industry, but from
mines, and is; productive of similar effeas—The Eafl-Indies are an example.
All dependent countries are to the superior slate, not in the relation of chil
dren and parent, according to the common phrase, but in that of (lave and
matter, and have a like influence on character. By rendering the labour of the
one, the property of the other, they cherish pride, luxury, and vanity on one
lidc , on the other, vice and lervility, or hatred and revolt.
7he Situation of the Poor in England, and the Manner in which they live, may be fun
from the following Account.—By Sir J. Sinclair.
Expences and Earnings of 6 Families of Laborers, by the Week and by the Year.
NECESSARIES
Expcncci per Week.
Bread or flour
Yeast and Salt
Bacon or other meat
Tea, lugar, butter
Cheese, (l'eldom any)
Beer (leldom any)
Soap, tlarch, blue
Candles ....
Thread, thrum, worfled
Total
Amount per annum
Earnings p er week.
The man earns at a me
diuni ....
The woman .
i he children
Total
Amount per annum .
1 o the above amount o£
expcnces per annum ,
Ada rent, fuel, clothes,!
lying-in ... j
Total ex^nces per an. 2g 4g"g , 5 025,7 72 , -
loul camtngs per an. |g 2 2 o [23 8 o; 22 2 0 (23 g o
Deficiency of earnings , 7 , 9 "| 570(3 1£ 7,012 9|, IO 8 |~8~
account of the families.
No. 2. A woman" whnfrlf (5 cb '' dren > 'he eldest 8 years of age, youngest an infant.
agt, the next a boy aged lq the " r "ii away and 6 children, tile eldest a boy 16 years o£
No q A man 5;4 °f the children too young to earn any thing.
infant. d ' ' ' aDd 4 ' ma " chlldren . the eldcft under 6 years of age, the youageft an
an infant. ' W " e ' and 3 ma " children, the eldest not quite 5 years old, the youngest
5 " A man ' h ' S Wlfe ' and three y° un g children, the eldest 6 years of age, the youngest an
No. 6. A man, his wtfe and a young children, the eldest 7 years of age, the youngest 4.
r, r ANNUAL EXPENCES /- j
Rent of a cottage and garden, fro,,, il. s s. to 2I as'fav *
ruel, if boutrht, coHs 12s hm . 10 o
1 week cut turf enou>h on the *" a^ Vee s wa g es > because a man can in
:airiage for the a(hes.° n °" l ° ° IVC ear > and 'he farmers give the
; J 2 h ftuu?'L Wea on j a D suit f P fl an " ura > 5'.; wear of a wo ,king'jacket aid ° 8
hatjaudtkei ;s - ; 2 p-°?«°^n gs ,
■coat, 45.; 1 fhift, 3 s. 6d.; 1 pair of ftrnn'n- £ woman's wear of gown and pct
'l"onsi 3"- J handke,chiefs, C L & c as S _^° eS ' *)' ; 1 P alr of dockings, is. 6d. 2
-very year bestow on thetnfelvr? r' "u _ ut as few poor people can
partly made up of parent's old cloth- ums i e [ e u PP let the children's cloathing,
■he whole el!,mated 'J" s aJtt doth «, partly bought at second hand) be included, and
Lying-in, ficknels, and loss of time it,,.™!,' . , • • • 210 o
iad weather, eflimated at '' hunals, and loss of time by extreme
'like, because it is thekaftlum fami!y
ofthi^i P offlot, a r f^ of wheat bread . . . . 0 o ill
ol a week s labor in winter * ® * • .0010
0 "»/4; • ' •
* ' • • . 080
7d toßd. per lb P o^aTd'l'-2 ° Z- Soft fu S ar . I" 2 Ib - at
Poor people reckon cheese ihe r\Z n ■ . I 2'° 8d " P cr lb
,nTomeke out r fbap C ?h t e aK b'" tl * rCld ° m
ey in°No a(hln h' ' C> Un ° r '' Cn lcra * and knead athes in 'o balls with which they make a
oap. In No. 4, thre charge fofb',ead iTconfide R 'hll' for wh 'ch reason 6d is charged for
>y buying a whole hog at once, has f or lhe '' "ft ' han ,n ,he ° ,h "s ; because that family,
he others get who buy by retail; and that ereatTr Y almofldouble lhe quantity of meat, which
11 a f B°farther8 ° farther - quantity of meat, with greens and potatoes,
riom those of Scotland, P< ? or En S la ' ,d llv e »> a very different stile
sy fpinmng only, many women in Seeded 1 ° a '° be v mconfidcrahle indeed ; for
10 3 s 6d per week, iCC " and S a '«. 'aftead of 6d. or even u. at the rate of from as.
No. l.
7 Persons.
| No. B. j
7 Pcrfons. I
I No. 3.
6 Persons.
£. s. d.
, 1
0500 5 0
° ° 3!
Io o 8
o I o |
000
oo o I
OO 2 j
0 0 3
00 3 I
0 7 7!|
'9 17 7 I
£■ s. dj
I
05 5 I
0 0 3l
o1 4 I
O X o I
000
oo o I
o O
OO 3 j
OO 3 1
089
22 15 O
/. i. d}
063
004
008
o1 o !
oo o |
000
00c
003'
oo 3 I
o 8 li |
23 4 9
£• s. d.
080
006
oo o I
'£■ i. d.
farijh
fay
5 0
Oxo
03 o I
£. s. d.
080
006
000
o 8 6j o 9 o
22 2 0 ,'23 8 o
jo 8 6
22 2 o
£ • s. d.
2 3 4 9
600
£. s.- d.
42 O
600
£ - cf.
J 9 17 7
600
No. 4.
5 Persons.
No. 6.
4 Persons.
No. 5 .
,5 Persons.
j£. s. d.
j O 2 6}
' O O 2'
| O I 9
|O I 2
|O O 2
I 0 O 5
|00 3 I
0 0 3
(oo 2 |
| 0 6 11
[180 9 j
\£. s. d.
I
1° 3 9
o o 3
I o I 1 |
OX o I
o o o
oo O I
oo 6 1
0 0 3
00 3 I
078
19 18 8
'£■ s. d.
i
042
|9 0 3
Io 1 o
o o io
'000
o o a
002
003
003
o 6 11
18 o 9
\£. S. d.
084
008
000
'£ ■ d.
080!
■° 1 9
100 o I
'£. s.- d.
080
006
000
I 9 9 0
"3 8 o
o 8 6
22 2 - O
ago
23 8 o
£■ >■ J
-18 o 9
600
£. s. u.
19 18 8
600
£. s el.
1809
6 o .0
25 1 8 8 ,24 o 9
23 8 o ,22 2 OPHILADELPHIA,
December 12.
On Friday the 9th instant, the Governor of this
state met both Houses of the Legillature in th<
Senate Chamber, and communicated his Speech
on the bufiiiefs of the present leliion. Amonj
other obje&s contemplated in the Speech, was
the opening of the navigation of the Sufquehanna
a plan for forming a communication by water
with a few ealy carrying places, from the Ohio ti
the rivers (particularly the Delaware) falling inti
the Atlantic Ocean j and a negociation betweei
the states of Pennsylvania and Maryland fur th
purpose of uniting the navigation of the Delawar
and Chefapeke bays, and thereby opening a nev
avenue from this port to the ocean.
ON the 27th of Augult last a letter was laid be
fore the National Afiembly of Fiance, from th
inhabitants of the illand of Sr. Pierre and Mi que
lon, near Newfoundland, praying /applies of pro
vision.—" It is the lot of these unfortunate peo
pie (fays a French paper) to exist upon barrel
lands, and even there to contend with their neigh
bors, theEnglifh, for a miserable subsistence 01
codfish. Perhaps the best mark of our regard so
them would be to return this* wretched colony t
■old prance."
Ex t raEl of a letter from New-York, Dec. 9.
Nothing new from this place at present, ex
cept a fire, the evening befote ialt, which for fom
time wore a threatening afpedl. It happened ii
John-Srreet, in a building belonging to Mr. Hal
let, a coach-maker, adjacent to the Theatre.—
No sooner was the alaim given that the Tibeatr
nvas itt danger, [which is in fadt the Church o
many people] than people of all ledts and partie
exerted themlelves in an unprecedented manne
for laving the building from ruin. The efforts o
one perion in particular were wonderful, 'win
mounted himfelf on the roof of the Theatre, an<
literally fought with the flames, tor the preierva
tionot this ichooi of morality,"
The war bctwee* the Moors and the Spaniards i
f.„id to be a piece of the most consummate polic<
in the court of Madrid. The minds ot the popu
lace, which, for went of other wen
wholly occupied in deviling meaui fur redreilmj
the grievances under which they laboured, wtl
iivw be d'aeited, and the government be again fuf
tered to enjoy a ftatc, if not entirely tranquil, ire
ac least from mtettine commotions.
A London paper of credit has the following pa
yagraph under the Vienna head of Sept. 10. 44 1 h
measures which the Emperor seems to have take)
with the King of Prussia relative to France appea
daily more serious. If the declaration which wi.
shortly appear at Pans blithe part of those tw
monarchy, & which will be seconded by similar de
cUratioas onthe pari: of fevcral courts of the foutJ
and north oi Europe ftiail be absolutely ineffedtua
and if the negociations in which the winter may b
employed terminate but in ufeiefs conferences,ther
can be no doubt but iceues of deflru&ion and car
nage will take place the ensuing spring. The pre
parations making for that fatal purpose are not 0
the blu£lei:ng kind, but they are not for that reafoi
the ,cfs certain. Many bodies of troops hav
begun their march from different parts of th
Auilrian States towards the Rhine 1 len battalh
ons and as many squadrons have just received order
enjoining them to make all the necefi'ary difpofiti
011s to enable them to follow the fame rout.
' 4 With refpedt to the.,reports circulated, relativ
to the plan of attack , and of the campaign, whicl
tlie allied princes have agreed upon, there is reasoi
to think that all is not authentic ;but exaggeratioi
and error in details do not deitroy the exiitence 0
the design.—Three armies will certainly be affcm
bled, to"ail against France on the fide of Germany
The firft will be assembled near Luxembourg
where 30,000 Auftrians will be joined by all th
PruiTian regiments on the Weliphalia eftabliih
xnent. The second will be alTembled in Bnfgav
to consist of twenty battalions of Hungarians am
Croatians, of ten squadrons of Auftrians, cavalry
and of the double contingents of the cities of Bava
ria, Franconia, Suabia, and the uppeer Rhine
The third will be colle&ed 111 tlie environs o
Worms, and will confitt principally of the troop
at the two circles of Saxony.
About the hour of ten, on Wednesday night lad
the large workihop of Mr. James Hallet, nearl
adjoining the Theatre in John-street (New York
took fire, and was entirely consumed. The Ihe
aire was in great danger ot meeting the fame fate
having caught fire fevcral times; but through th
exertions of the citizens, was ultimately preserved
It is said the building caught fire in the fourtl
story, where a quantity of tow, See, was depofittd
Had it happened in the dead ol the night th
consequences must have been dreadful. \vin<
north-weft.
Extraß cf a Utter J rem CharUjlon, Alev. 16.
11 I received fafe the volume of poems o
Phillis IVhtatley, (a negro woman of Boston
which upon my re-iterated applications, )oi
were at length io obliging as to fend mC *
observe the Publiiher of the work has put him
felfto abundance of trouble to convince tn<
public that the poems are genuine and, indeed
thev evidently require a great deal of apology 0
this kind to prevent a lulpicion of their bc»n£
fadty garbled.—Upon ray firft reading the advei
tifement of those poems in one of the northerr
papers, as written by an African, I expecuc
whenlfhould .be gratified with a pe*ulal, t<
meet with some bold original strokes of n;uur<
such as we might suppose to be produced by <
rude native of a country, which inftcad of poe
try has hitherto furni&ed us with little else thai
;lepTiant's teeth, rnonkies and (laves. —But mv
:xpe£lations are frufliated : inflead of fomethinj
nf ihe original kind, and charaQeriflic of the
Rile of the country Mrs. Wheatley came from,
1 am treated with liule else than some trite flufl
" on the death of George Whitfield," To the
Revd. Mr. Suc/i an one on the decease of hii
wife,"or" Verses to a Student in divinity or
ome of the Dogmas of Fanaticism"—To fa)
:he truth, I fee little more merit in these poems
:han would be incident to any other collection
he work of some person that had been a goor
leal conversant in Watt's lyrics and Pomfret:
poems. Several impieflions, however, havt
>een fold off as I am informed ; not so much ii
sto be supposed for the real merit of the poetr)
is the accidental circuniflance of its being the
>rodu£tion of a fable Ethiopian. You may fenc
m a few dozen to this place, but, by all means
>f that ediiion wherein the sooty Lady is engrav
:d at full length by way of frontifpiece. It wil
lave an excellent efl'e6t in forwarding the sale o
he work."
ExtraEl of a Utter from St. Croix, Nov. l.
" I embrace the present opportunity to infortr
"ou ofa levere hurricane having in a manner laic
vafle the greater part of this Island on the
>f O&ober. —The very day, on which by a rule
>f the Island, our churches return thanks yearly
n cafe no Hurricane has happened duimg th<
ireceding three months—The ravages on tht
101 th fide and towards the weft end are terrible
nd the definition has also extended in no final
legree to the neighbouring Virgin lilands
vloft of the sugar Plantations that had canes ii
nv degree forward, have luffered extremely
ndeven those of a larger growth are twilled an;
orn in such a manner as to be nearly ufelels
ieveral estates that had great profpefcts from th<
nfuing crop, have a certainty at prelent of n®
naking a single hogshead of sugar—Some da
nage is done to the snipping at Baffend ; at th;
• eft end road, numbers were fortunate enougl
3 get to sea, some of which are returned, other
iOt :
From the Lexington ( Kentucky) Gazette.
?opy of a Circular Litter from Brigadier
General Scott, to the different County
Lieutenants in Kentucky.
Lexington, Nov. ii, 1791.
"SIR,
" WE have now received certain in
elligence that the army have been de
eated.—The loss is very great.' —Th'
jarrifon at fort Jefterfon is intercepted
ind many, many brave wounded gal
ant men are now left on the road una
>le to travel and without any provision
>ut the flelh of pack-horses. This cai
equires immediate exertions.—l hav
tppointed a rendezvous of volunteers a
Craig's mill, the 15th inilant, completel;
equipped, with arms, ammunition, am
>0 days provision—l trufl that no exer
ion on your part will bo wanting, whci
he fafety of our country, and the live
>f brave men are in danger. The cir
:umftance requires the greatest dilpatch
ind no friend to his country can now
>e idle.—Believe me with refpeft
'ours.
The volunteers who are not rea
ly by the 15th inft. are to follow as foot
ls possible."
BY sundry gentlemen who are arriv
;d in town since Thursday last, we havi
he melancholy account of the defeat o
he army under General St. Clair.—
They fay the attack, was made by the In
lians, on the 4th instant, at day break
ind continued about four hours.— Iha
ve loft 46 commilTioned officers killed
ind 25 wounded, and about 600 pri
rates, besides pack-horse and bullocl
Irivers, &c. 8 pieces of cannon, ant
ill the baggage.
THE following is a lift of the officer;
aid to be killed and wounded.
killed.
General Butler.
Colonel Oldham.
Majors —Brown, Hart, Clark, anc
"ergulon.
Captains—Bradford, Tipton, Smith
'urdie, Newman, Phelon, Kirkwood
3 eate, 'Price, Sweringan, Cubbs, anc
iutherie. _
Lieutenants —Warren, Spier, Luckins
Vlac-Nickle, "M'Math, Hopper, Ried
Cello, Boyd, andtwo others.
Ensigns —Bealy, Cobbs, Balfh, Brooks
Dhafe,"'Turner, Purdie, and two others
Quarter-Masters— Ward, Reynold anc
Anderfon, Burgess, beside:
Militia officers.
Dodtor Crayfon.
WOUNDED.
Colonels —Gibfon and Dark.
Major Butler.
Captains—Ford, Doyle, Dark, Buch
man, Madison, Trueman, Slough, ant
hree others.
Lieuts. —Dubuts, Price, Gretkous,
Crawford, M'Crea, and twa others.
Ensigns.—Morgan, liines, and foui
others. Doctor Gano.
Total, 44 killed, 26 wounded.
On Saturday last the Indians killec
two men on the Ohio, between Locus
Creek and the mouth of Limestone.
ExtraEt of a letter from a gentleman in Mer
cer county, to a member oj the General AJ
fembly, dated. November 13ik, 1791.
•' The defeat of General St. Clair, or
the 4th inft. cngrolTes all our thoughts
we had 600 men killed and wounded
all the flores ioft, and 7 pieces o
Artillery. This engagement happenec
about 15 miles from the Maume Village
30 from Fort Jefferfon, and 98 from For
Washington. .
"■ General St. Clair, expe&ed ar
attion; the men were drawn up in ordei
of battle, and Itood in their ranks al.
night ; the army were formed into <
nollo w square—the artillery and baggage
n me center—the enemy made tnen
ittack at the dawn of day on all the lines
particularly oil the rear, which wa:
;onipoied of Militia; they were over
powered and gave way, the Indian*
ruihed on ana soon were poffelTedo:
the Artillery, which was retaken in ;
few moments by a company of regulars
with fixed bayonets ; but mod of the
natroffes being killed, no ule was made
it. The adtion continued obstinately
ill g o'clock, when our men gave way
General St. Clair rallied them anc
wrought off the greater part of the wound
:d to Fort Jefferlon, being purluec
ibout 5 miles, where the remains of the
irmy and wounded are cooped up, almoll
larved, living on poor pack-horl'es.
'« The people of the diftrift are pre
paring to go to the relief of Fort Jeifer
"on, and I hope by the 20th, 1000 01
will be at Fort Wafh
ngton, on their way upon this occ'ifi
>n. A number of your acquaintances
vill turn out, in Lincoln, Logan, Shelby
md Ewing—Mercer, Colonel M'Dow
■ll,uind myfelf, with a number of young
eltows.; we (hall carry provisions to the
xarrifon, and bring oif the wounded.'"
By a gentleman who left Kentucky or
.he 15th instant, we learn, that ou;
friend the Mountain leader, was ou
with a party of white men at the time o
:he attack-, and it was feared they havi
fallen a facrifice likewise.
The following is a tranjlaticn from a paper print
cd at Cape-Francois.']
ACCORDING to the accounts takei
in 1789, the total number of (laves, men
women and children, in the ten parish
ss now revolted, was fixty-cight thou
Tand fix hundred and sixty-sour. Fron
:his number, if we dedutt two-third
r or old men, women, children, and in
/alids, there will remain, capable o
ifting offenfively, twenty-two thou
sand, eight hundred and eighty-eight.
There have been killed or woundec
;n our engagements with them, 4000
which will reduce the numberto 18,888
From these again we mull dedu£
4000, who have either returned to thei;
tnafters, ,or are concealed in the wood
for the purpose of giving themfelve
up. The number we have actually t(
:ope with, is 14,888 —and of this num
ier there are at least one-half who wen
forced into the ferviceof the insurgents
without arms, and incapable of makin*
■efiftance in cafe of being attacked.—
3f this 14,888 there are not a fifth par
Puinifhed with muskets or pistols, ant
his fifth parts amounts to 2977. —Thi
whole of this number are fcatterec
through the ten quarters, which give
1400 to every quarter, but the neceffit)
as providing fuflenance renders thei:
parties very unequal.
Of the 68,664 negroes that have re
volted, 30,000 may be deemed 1011, ei
:her by being a&ually killed, or be
:oming wild in mountains to whicl
there is no access. The value of eacl
of these negroes may be eflimated a
2500 livres each, which makes «th<
whole loss in revoltednegrqes, 7500000 c
livres.
The lodes incurred from the deftruc
tion of 172 sugar works, plantation
lioufes, cattle, &c. &c. is reckoned a
111,800,000 livres.
The lolfes in buildings, produce, anr
;he cattle on 936 coffee-plantations, is
-131,400,000 livres.—Villages, cottoi
ind indigo plantations, and cattle
auildings, &c. upon them, are eftimatec
at 6,400,000 livres.
Total 10f5—324,f00 ; 000 livres.
IF Louis the Sixteenth (fays a London paper)
fliould not now make the best of Kings, the fault
mult be his own, as the ctifcipline he has experi.
:nced in his person and family, wiih the thorough
leformatfon in Church and State, must have, in n
great measure, effaced those prejudices with which
every royal mind is but too well furniflied, till in-
Itrudied by the precepts of the law, and the firm
nefs of the people. The methods of governing a
Ipirited, populous, and extensive empire, are so
plainly laid out, that it is next to impoilible that
cither the King or his Minillers can mistake the
road. There are also spiritual advantages secured
to the Monarch j for by being deprived of his own
will in all public atb, he must necessarily avoid
those crimes which a deviation from the rules of
known juflice are perpetually accumulating on the:
cxercile of arbitrary power. The maxim, " that:
the King can do no wrong," is a reality in France
—He whose wings are clipped cannot flv over the
constitution*
A lengthy plan has appeared in one of the late
Bnglifli papers for emancipating the Haves in the
britiih Welt-India islands : the substance of which
s as follows : I. " A royal proclamation to be if.
,ued for every individual planter in those islands,
o stock liis plantation with a proper number of
legroes of both sexes.
2. Two or three years after the iflTuing of this
icr, let a general emancipation take place. Let
:he slaves upon every plantati n be valued,
ind government then the matter* for such Haves
so emancipated. At the lame time let the con
dition of this emancipation be, that the slaves /hall
pay yearly such sum out of their labour, as may
[>e determined by pailiament.
3. The mail 1 shall after the emancipation, fuf
fer all those who were his slaves to remain on the
:ftate, and let them occupy their houses, and the
ground which they formerly did, without paying
any rent so long as they continue to work for the
lame master ; but, if they fliould leave the eltate,
to forfeit to hirn both house and land. Thisme
:h°d w 'll oblige the servant to continue in the mas-
Jtr s employ.
4. It has been advanced, that the emancipation
>f the negroes in the Engliih Weft-Indies would
end to injure certain manufactories at home.—lt
• well known, that there are nearly one hundred
houfand blacks in those islands, and it is equally
lVe 1 k-iown, that the blacks in general are nearly
laked — now, if these people were but moderately
>aid for their labour, is it not to be supposed thac
ley would dress in a very different manner from
A>hat they do at present— then we may fay that
Adhere there is one Shilling now laid out in Englifli
nanufa&ures for the use of the negroes, there
jvould be forty, if the people were free.
5. It has also been said, that if England emanci
3at?s her Haves, other nations will not do it. Nei
:her need she care whether they do or not. When
he slaves are once made free and become citizens
here will be no longer any fear of trusting them
-vith arms. Each ill and will then be adequate to
its own defcnce, and there will be no neceflity, in
.afe of invasion, for fending out white troops to
the Well-Indies, which generally proves their
grave.
If this plan or something of the kind is not
adopted, it is to be feared that the present trou
bles in Hifpaniola will prove only tjie beginning
of sorrows. The period of timefeems to have ar
rived, when America is becoming too ponderous
for European domination. Let us therefore fall in
with the natural current of and by being
the firft nation to recognize the rights of men,
of whatever colour, lay claim to thejfolid glory of
extending a (hare of that freedom beyond the Atla
ntic, which every Briton pretends to conflder as his
Birth-right."
PRICE of STOCK.
Funded Debt.
Six per cents, per £. - - 22/4.
Three per cents, - ..
Deferred fix per cents, - 1 3i4-
Unfunded Debt,
Final settlements, - - 20/.
JnteieiPdue previous to 1788, 22if.
Indents, - _ 12/.
Bankfcriprs, .... ijj dolhjs
Meteorological Ob SERVATIONS.
December 1791.
li. H. Bar. Ther. Wind. Weather.
Monday, 5. 7 g O . , ca lm Cloudy.
__2 9°. 6 34 s. w.Snow.
luefday, 6. 729. 93 1 n.w. Fair.
2 29. 7.5 32 I do. Cloudy
Wednesday, 7. 729. ? ~ n.w. Fair.
2 29- 6 25 do - Cloudy.
1 hurjday, 8. 7 29. 719 n.w. Fan.
2 29. 62 28 do. ditto.
Friday, 9. 7 2 g t 722 n.w. Cloudy.
_2 29. 632 w. Fair.
Saturday, i O . 7 2 g. g25 w. Fair.
229. 8 39 s.w. ditto.
Sunday, 11.7 29. 85 28 calm Fair.
2129. 9 43 n.w. Clouds.
CHARLES BITTERS,
No. 120,
South Market, near Fourth Street,
Has received from New-York, and manufa&ured
BY LOT MERKEL,
A large and General Aflortment of
Muffs Iff Tippets, Trimmings
Edgings,
Great Coats, Caps, Mitts & gloves lined with Fur
which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the 10-.vest Prices,
Od. 4.STATE of NEW-JERSEY.
An ACT to incorporate the Contributors to the So
ciety for ejlablijbing ufeful ir.anufaßures, andfo
the further encouragement of the said Society.
[ Continued from page 4S.]
Sec. 17. And whereas it may be neceflary ,for tin
fceneficial extentron of the aforefaid plan, to cu
canals, and clear and improve the channels of ti
vers, the advantages of which will not be Confine
to the members of the laid society, who ough
therefore to be authorized to receive a reafonabl
toll to defray the expenses of improvements ulti
mately so valuable to the state: Be it enabled
That it /hall be lawful for the directors of th
said society, their engineers, artists and labourers
to enter upon and survey all such land, and )an<
covered with water, as ill all appear to them mofi
pra-fticable and convenient for eiie&ing navigabh
canals, for the purpose of transporting goods,
v. ares, and merchandizes, to and from some ma
nufactory by them established, and alfofuch parts
of such rivers and other waters as they may propose
to open and clear, doing as little damage to the
grounds and enclosures as lhall be pollible j and
thereupon stall certify to the governor of this state
in writing, as well the couifes and distances of any
such canal as they may propose to cut, and of the
part of any such river as they may propose to clear
and open, as the width and probable depth there
of, and lhall transmit with such certificate a
draught or plan of such intended canal, or of the
part of such river so intended to be cleared or
opened: and in like manner (ball certify to the
said governor, from time to time, such alteration
in the intended courfeof such canal as the quality
of the ground or other causes may occasion j
whereupon it /hall be lawful for them, their engi
neers, artiftsand labourers, to en>er upon all such
land, and land covered with water, as lhall be ne
ceflary for efie&ing such navigable canal or ca
nals, or for opening or clearing such river or rivers ;
and to contra# and agree with the owners of an)
lands and tenements for the purchase of so muci
thereof as (hall be neceflary for the purpose of ma
Jcing, digging and perfe&ing such canal or canals
or opening and clearing such river or rivers, an<
of creeling and eftabli/hing ajl the neceflary locks
works and devices, to such navigation belonging
if they can agree with such owner or owners : Bu
in cafe of difa»ref ment, or in cafe the owner there
of lhall be feme covert, under age, non compo
mentis, or out of the state, then it ftiall and ma;
be lawful to and for the said dire&orsto apply ti
two of the Justices of the Supreme Courc of thi
§-atc, wHo, upon such application are hereby au
thorifed and empowered, enjoinpd .and required
to frame and itfue one or more writ or writ?, a
occasion /hail require, in the nature of a writ a.
quod damnum, to be dire&ed to the Sheriff of th
county in which such lands and tenements fhaJ
be, commanding him, that, by the oaths and as
formations of twelve good and lawful men of hi
.fcalliwick, who/hall be indifferent to the parties
lie sHall inquire whether the person or .persons
owning any lands and tenements necetTary to b
tifed by the said directors, or which may be injure
in establishing the said canal or canals, or in open
ing or clearing such river or rivers, .which perfoi
or perfohs /hall be named, and which lands an
ter>ements /hall be defciibed in such writ or writs
will fuffer and sustain, and what damages by rea
son or means of taking any lands, tenements
mill, mill-pond, water, water-course or other rea
hereditament, necc/Tary for the use of any fuel
canal, or for the opening of the navigation of an
such river, and the locks and works thereto be
longing, and to return the fame writ, togethe
with the finding of the said Jury, to the next Su
pre me Court of this state after such finding, and
upon such writ being de ivered to the said Sheriff
lie /hall give aC least twenty days notice in writin:
to al ar<d eVery the owners of the lands and tene
. rn the laid, writ described, or to so man
of them as can be found, or to the agent o
agents cf such owners of the time of execu
ting the fame, and /hall cause to come upoi
the premises, at the time appointed, twelve gooi
and lawful men of his bailiwiclc, who/hall be fe
Jeftcd in such manner as struck Juries ufuall
are, to whom he /hall administer an oath or as
tirmation, that they will diligently inquire con
cerning the matters and things in the said wri
fpecified, snd a true verdidl give according to th
best" of their /kill and judgment, without favou
or partiality ; and thereupon the said UierifF ani
inquest flia'l proceed to view alj and every th
lands a.nd tenements in fucb writ fpecified, an
having considered the quantity of land, and lani
covered with water, mills, buildings or other im
provemente, that /hall be neceflary t* be- vested i
the said.company for the purposes aforefaid, an>
any course then existing, the use whereo
will be neceflary for the purposes aforefaid, the
ihall cairfe the fame to be minutely and exa&J
described by metes and bounds, or other particu
lar descriptions, ?nd /hall value or appraise the in
jury or damages, if any, which theowner or own
ers of the said lands, tenements, mill?, water, wa
ter courses, buildings or improvements, will, ac
cording to their best /kill and judgment, fuftaii
and futfer by means of so much of the said land
and tenements being veiled Ln the said company
or by means of such improvements being destroy
ed or rendered ufclefs or of less value, or by mean:
of the said company being permitted to turn fuel
water Co fill their canal and locks, or by means o
said company being permitted to enlarge any mil
pond, mill-race, or other wateNcourfc, and to uf<
the fame as and for part of such canal and
tion, cr by any other means whatsoever defining
and ascertaining as well ail such lands and tene
mencs, liberties ahd privileges so to be vested ir
thp said company, aj the several funis at which
the said injuries and damages /hal| be so aflcflVd ;
and the said /heriffand Jury /hall make an inqui-
under their hands and seals, diftintflv anc
plainly setting forth all the matters and thing!
afofeiaidj and the/heriff /hall forthwith returr
the fame, together wirh the said writ, to the ofn
cer of the Supreme Court, and at the firft Supreme
Court which /hall be held next after the return ol
any such \yt*,thc Justices of the said Court/hil]
rxaminc the-fame ; znd if the (aid writ {hall ap
pear tohave been duly executed, and the return
thereof be fufficiently certain to afcertai* th<
lands and tenements, .rights, liberties, and privi
leges intended to be vetted in the said company
and the several compensations awarded to the own
ers thereof, then the said Court shall enter judg
mert, that the said company, paying to the fever
ai owners as aforefaia the feverai sums of mone;
in the said inquisition alTe»l"ed, or bringing th»
fame into the said Court over and besides the cost
of such writ, and of executing and returning thi
fame, (hall be intitled to have and to hold to then
and their fuccefTors and ailigns forever, all an.
every the lands, tenements, rights, liberties, am
privileges in the said inquisition described, as fu!
Iv and effectually as if cl»e fame had been grantei
:o them by the refpedtive owners thereof : and i
any return, so to be made, (hall not be fufficientl
rcrtain, for the purpoies aforefaid, the said Cour
(hall award an inqtiifition de novo, aod upon pay
ment or bringing into court al! such monies as b
such judgement (1)all be required to be paid o
brought into Court, all luch lands, tenements
rights, liberties and privileges, shall be fully am
absolutely vested in the laid corporation, whicl
[hall become seized and pofleffed thereof in lik<
manner as the then late owner or owners was o
were seized or po'fiefied thereof. Provided alwavs
That no greater quantity of land shall be in fuel
writ dire&ed to be set out, or /hall be set out b
any such jury, than ihall be futijeient for fuci
:anal and navigation, and to leave on each fid'
sf any canal intended to be cut, or water intende<
to be rendered navigable, a space or distance no
;xceeding two hundred and fifty feet, for the bet
:er maintaining and repairing of such canal am
:he locks, or other works, and buildings which i
(hail be necefTary to erect and maintain, for th
aurpofe of luch canal or other navigable watcr
lS. And be it further enadted by the 2uthorit'
iforefaid, That, wherever such canal (hall crof
any public or private laid out road or highway, q
(hall divide the ground of any person into tw<
parts so as to require a ford or bridge to cross th
lame, the Jury who mall inquire of :he damage
to be fuftamed, in manner herein directed, fhal
Snd and alcertain whether a pafTage across thi
lame lha!! b? admitted and maintained by a ford
sr by a bridge, and, on such finding, the said direc
ors shall cause a ford to be rendered practicable
>r a bridge ft: for the paffag? of carts and Wag
»ons to be built, and forever hereafter maintaine<
ind kept in repair, at ail and every the places f<
iPcertained by the said Jury, at the costa anc
charges of the said company : But nothing here
n contained shall prevent any person from erect
ng and keeping in repair any foot or other bridgi
scrofs the said canal at his own expence, where
:he fame {haril pass through his ground, providet
the fame shall be of such heigh: above the wate
as (hail be usual in the bridges eredtcd by the pom
pany j and provided also, that such foot 6r othe:
bridges, fo~to be eredied fcy the owners of fuel
fa'nrt, shall not interfere with any of the locks
buildings, or other works of the company.
19. And be it further enadted by the authority
aforefaid, That it /hall and may be lawful to ant
for the said diredtors, their engineers, arti£s am
labourers, with carts, waggons, wains, and othe
carriages, with their beads of draft and burthen
and all necessary tools and implements, to ente
upon rhe lands contiguous or nea. to the said trad
of.fuch intended canal or canals, or to such part
if any river or other water, as they may propof
to clear and render fit for navigation, and alf
to take and carry away any stone, gravel, fan
or earthy there being fnoft conveniently situate so
making, repairing, or improving such canal or na
ligation, and the fame 10 use in carrying on th
said work, firft giving notice of their intention t
rhe owners of such lands, and doing as little da
mage thereto as polftole, and repairing any breach
js they may make in the ene'loiures thereof, am
making amends for any damages that ma
oe sustained by the owners of such ground, accor
ling to a reasonable agreement with the owners
f they can agree, or, if they cannot agree, thei
according to an appraisement to be made upon th
>ath or affirmation of three, or, if they disagree
my two indifferent freeholders to be mutually cho
fen j or if the owners negledi or refufe to join ii
:he choice, then according to an appraisement t<
be made upon the oath or affirmation of t welv
|ood and lawful men of the bailiwick, to be sura
moneo, sworn and impannelled, by virtue of a war
r3nt from any one jultice of the supreme court o
he (late > or any one justice of the peace in am
for the county in which such lands may lie, wh<
it the request of the said society or their lawfu
agent, is authorised and required to ifTue his war
ant to the fheriff of the said county, command
ng him, that, by the oaths of twelve good am
awful men of his bailiwick, he make the said ap
)raifement, and return the fame forthwith unde
heir hands and seals to the said justice.
20. And be it further enadted by the authorit
ilorefaid, That it shall and may be lawful to an
or tne said diredtors, so soon as any mill, canal
>r any part thereof fhallbe peifedted, or any rive
hall be rendered navigable in any part where th
arae was not before navigable, to appoint fuel
and so many colleaors of tolls, for the paOage o
boats and vefTels in, through and along the fame
and at such places as they shall think proper; am
that it shall and may be lawful to and for such tol
collector?, and their deputies, to demand of anc
from all per-fons having the charge of all boat:
and vefiels, and rafts of timber, boards, plank 01
scantling, palling through such canal, and the par
of such river rendered navigable, and the lock;
thereto belonging, such tolls and rates, for ever 3
:on weight of the ascertained burden of the fait
boats and veflels, and for every hundred feet cu
bic mea(We of timber, and twelve hundred fee
board measure of boards, plank or fcantlJng in
as tht said dije&ors (hall think proper $ pro
vided, that the whole amount of such tolls ant
rates in one year shall not exceed fifteen percent,
on the sums expended in making and establishing
such canal, or in opening and clearing such river
over and above the expences of maintaining and
repa.ring the Tame, together with the necefTary
works, and of collecting the said tolls and rates.
2r. And, in order to ascertain the tonnage ol
boats ufmg the said canal navigation, and to pre
vent disputes between the supercargoes or ikippers
and colle&crs of-TcJls concerning tlvs ftrre : He ir
Further enabled by the authority afore/aid, Th^ r ,
jpon the requeftof the owner, fkipperor fupercar
»o of such boat or raft, or of the colle&or of the
laid tolls, at any lock, or place upon any such ca#al
or water rendered navigable, it /hall and maybe
lawful for each of them to choose one flcilful per
son to measure and ascertain the number of tons
which the said boat or vefTel is capable of carrying,
and to mark the fame in figures upon the heau and
stern of the laid boat, in colours mixed with oil,
and thai the said boat or velTel so measured and
marked, /hall always be permitted to pass through
Tuch canal or water rendered navigable, and locks,
for the price per ton to which the number of tons
so marked on her shall amount, agreeably to the
rates fixed in the manner aforesaid ; and if the
owner, /kipper or supercargo of such boat or veflel
(hall deciine choosing a person, resident within four
miles ot the place where such toll is payable, to
ascertain the tonnage thereof, then the amount of
such connage /hall be fixed and ascertained by
the person appointed for that purpose by the
said directors, or chosen by the said collector of
tolls for the said company, and the toll /hall be
paid according to luch measurement, before any
boat or veflel /hall be permitted to pals the jock
zr place where luch toll /hall be made payable by
the said ©ompany.
22. And be it further ena&ed by the authorkv
jforefaid, That if any person or performs whojn
foever, shall wilfully and knowingly do any a<ft or
thing whatsoever whereby such canal or naviga
tion, or any lock, gate, engine, machine, or de
vice thereto belonging, /hall be injured or da
maged, he or they so offending, ill aJI forfeit and
pay to the said company, fourfold the costs and
damages so sustained, by means of such known
ind wilful ad, together with costs of suit in thai
behalf expended, to be recovered by adrion ©]
iebtin any court having jurifdi&ion competent tc
the sum due.
23. And be it further enabled by the authority
jforefaid, That the coJJe&ors of toll's duty, ap
pointed and authorised by the said dire&ors, ma\
lop and detain all boats and veflels tiling the said
:anal and navigation, until the owner, /kipper, oi
Tupercargo of the fame, shall pay the tolls so as
afore/aid fixed, or may distrain part of the cargc
herein contained fufficient, by the appraifemen!
)f two credible persons, to fatisfy the fame, which
Jiftrefs shall be kept by the collector of the tolli
.aking the fame tor the space of fjve days, a*}d af
erwards fold by public au&ion, at the mod public
>iace in the neighborhood, to the highest bidder,
n the fame manner and form as goods diftraineo
or rent are by law fold and saleable, rendering th«
urplus, if any there be, after payment of the said
oJts, and the costs of distress and sale, to the own T
:r or owners thereof.
24. And be it further enabled by the authority
jforefaid, That the said directors shall, at the ex
wration of every third year from the date of theii
ncorjxoration, lay before the legifiature of this
*ate an abftradt of rheir accounts touching fuel"
:inals and waters rendered navigable, shewing the
y ole amount of the capital expended in purcha
fl* 1 "* 8 * e '* ates > a "d in digging, ereding and efta
ilruiing the whole of luch canals, locks, arc
works, and in rendering such waters navigable
ind the whole income an J profits arising from thi
aid tolls, for and during the said periods : toge
ther with eXa£ amount of contingent charges o:
uppoitmg, maintaining ami keeping the fame
epair tor the said periods, to the end that th<
:Jear annual profits may be known ; and if at th<
rndof any such period, it /hall appear from fuel
Jbitradt, that the clear profits and income of th<
laid company, as touching the said canals and wa
ers rendered navigable, will bear a dividend c
more than fifteen per centum per annum as abov<
umited, then and in such cafe the said tolls Zhal
be reduced to so much as will reduce the fait
clear profits and inceme to a dividend not exceed
ing the said rate ot fifteen per centum per annum:
and the surplus which may have at any time ac
truedl shall be paid to the order of the legiflatun
3f this ft ate, to be applied in their discretion to th<
Encouragement of literature, arts and science
*ithm this ftatc.
25. And whereas the firl attempts towards the
sflablilhment of manufa£tories by the said fociet\
may be attended with loss, fa as lo impair and di
mmish the capital thereof, and the said society
have prayed that this legillature would authorise
them to raile by lottery certain sums for theii
indemnification agaieft such lolTes ; incomplia„c<
with tne said re,que*, and for the further encour
igement of the laid eftjhliflirrenf, Be it enaflet
j>y the authority aforefaid, That the said fociet,
be, and they are hereby authorised and empow
;re,byoneor more lotteries, to be drawn withi,
® nate ' according to such scheme or schemes
and upon luch terms as the dir»ttors of the fai,
focretv /hall infiitute, publifli and declare, and un
er the man .gernent of such person. as the fai,
irecfors shall tor purpose appoint, to raise
or the benefit of the said society, ~ f utn or sum
lOC exceeding in the whole one hundred thoufan.
.ollars over ana above such charges and expence:
/hall have been incurred in and about the ma
lagement and drawing of the (aid lottery or lot
eries. 3 1
26. And whereas it is deemed important to the
ianfto M^ h ' Unde ; r^i ng aso r efaid, that provi
lon should be made for incorporating, with th<
Went of the inhabitants, such dift.ia not rx
•eeding m content the number of acres contained
■vithin fix miles fcuare, as may become the prin
r I "J l C mtendcd eftjbliihment: Be ii
further enaOed by the authoiitv a/orefaid, Thai
•ny tune after the direflors ofthe said society /ha
avemade choice of a suitable place for the prin
l t , hclr said ■nanuiaifories, and ihal
have certified the fame to tne governor of this
"T S> fl>aU h = lawful <"« th<
said d,rea«s, by advertisement in one or mo ,e
ofthe public gaiettts printed fn this (fate, and al
so by advert,fements afSxed in the mo/l public
and notorious place within such didriif, to gi vt
notice-that it appears to them (Tonducive to th<
interest ot the said society, if agreeable to the in
habitants of the said diftritf, that the said inhabi
unts fliould be and bccome *a body polit c and 0 '
rotate and if within sixty daysX fcVh"!", i
rem t!ie uicrrpori'.io? 5/ r£i ; n
vriting, signed with their names acdieffed and de
ivered to the Governor of this slate, ic giail fce'
leemcd ami taken to be evidence of the afoot
he said inhabitants to be, and tjiey fa all thereup .
in be created and become, a body corporate and
lolitic, in deed, ana-law, by the n2me and tilie
>f the corporation of the town of Paterfon, to
late perpetual foccefiion ; and they and their fac
efibrs /hall st all times be able and capable in
aw to have, hold and enjoy, any lands, tenements
ind hereditaments, goods and c'lartles, of whate
ver kind or quality, and the fame to (ell, grant,
ilien and dispose of; to sue and be sued, implepd
ind be impleaded, in courts of justice or any place
vhatfoever ; to make and use a common feat, and
he lame to alter and renew at pleasure ; ar-.d also
n manner hereafter mentioned, to ordain, efta
ilifh and put in execution, all necefTary and Con
enient bye-laws, ordinances, and regulations:
'rovided the fame are not contrary to the laws
md conifitution of the United States, or of this
late.
2.7. And be it further enaSed bv the authority
forel2id, That It any numfcerofthe said taxable*
nhabitants fnall fignify rheir difi'ent in man nee
forefaid, and if the said lociety fliall controvert:
he fame, being a majority of the said taxable in
iabitsnts of the said diftria, it fliall be lawful for
he Governor of this (fate, upon application made
0 him by the said society in that behalf, to' iffye
1 writ to the flierilfof the county in which the
najor partof such diftrift fliall be, commanding
iim to make, or cairfe to b? made, an enumera ■
:lon of the taxable inhabitants of the said diftrift,
md to return the fame within a certain tirac :i
be exprefled therein, not more than three, nor le£
than one calendar month after the tefle of the
laid writ, and the fame writ to renew in cafe f
default until the said enumeration be dulj
made, and returned ; and if upon I'uch enumera
tion it fliall appear that the number of persons
who have figniSed tjheir dissent are lei's than a ma
jority of the whcie numberof the taxable inha
bitants, then the diffint so fignifisd fliall be v«id
and of no effedl.
[Remainder in our nexr.]
ROBERT SMOCK,
Woollen Draper & Mercer,
Has just received hy the Jhip Pigie, from Londto,
and for jale ar h, j Sure, on toe north eaji corker
oj Market and Third fireets, Phitade.phta,
AN ELEGANT ASSORTMENT OP
SUPERFINE and super broadcloths, in altugft
every colour.
i.rtdies fupej-fine habit cloths,ln the most /p&ion
afcle colours.
Superfine caflimer>, do.
Do. and super elaltic striped cloths.
Milled drabs and hunters cloth:;.
A variety of fancy waiitooating, in fllk, silk xi
cotton, silk molelkin, caflimers printed ami
tamboured, and luperfine flriped Spanilh toili
nets.
Mens black fatrins, florentines, anJ fiik prunellas
of superior quaHtes
Silk, silk and cotton, cotton and worded hose,
anorted.
iattins and mantuas, a beautiful variety.
.uperfine rattincts, with a large colletfion of best
trimmings for cloths, &c. or everv quality.'
V oreens, joans fpinniag, durants and caiiman-
Coes.
3j»irbin?s and camblets, See.
1-8 wide Igperfine Marseilles quilting with bw
dsrs.
b =dquiJts and cutton counterpanes, 9-4
Flanders bedbunts and bedtickings,
A. beautiful variety of chintges and cottons.
An elegant affortmepe of yard wide tu,nit»re
chintzes, in beautiful colours and patters,
With a large vaiietyof furniture c Q it<j n s.
e leteens, velvets, corduroys, thicklcts, fancy
cords, ttockinett, royal ribs, faxtinets, hair
plufliei, fcc. &c.
griped a..dgr«), twiHed and plain Bath coatisj?.
i<ole blankets aflbited.
ROBERT SMOCK has also for Saie, a great
anety ot GOODS of the belt quality in thv-r
everal kinds. He presumes it i. t,
:e more particular in the enumeration, and that
t's lufncient to fay the alTortment is very gene -
»l and exienfive, conlirtin« of almost every arfi
•le in hivlmel of bufinels Being defiroui of giv
ng entire fati e fadtion to rhofe who may be~p!eafed
O lavour him -with rhtir enftom, as well
•s ct meriting a cjotinuajice of thofecuf
"mers, whose favours lie has hitherto exoerien
ed, he flatters himfelf the chcapnejt of hisGoodj
vill be the bert means of effeiting his wiflies.
JUST PUBLISHED,
and for sale by
THOMAS LANG,
* No. 41, Church allev ;
An tftay on
COMMERCE and LUXURY.
fr<lm 'he London edition—Price 1 ffi.
J■ u o{ this W -°T* w iH acknJ-v
---edged by every judicift'us reader. The re-pufcli
n i n ti,is country, at this time, has been
. ifed by fcveral enligbt r,rd patrio.s. Thife
in to promote our national commerce, on the ba- '
_t agnculture and indutlry, a-d fiee from the
' a,l °y ot Imposition and taminj. Thev set a
per va ue on the conveniencies and ornaments
h. ' but det(, l that luxury which is
>f nrrtfl^ °I- 3 7 Vo ' ous tafle, and the mother
r ■ ' g ' C ' ' d,| honefty, poverty, of number
a"4 PUbiiC ViC " ""^fortune*.
6t.e.t.
„ printed by
„ " ILDs and SWAINE,
TUEIS OFrIcE, NO. 239, HIGH-STREXT,
™ <Ali S'XTH-STREIT,
'HILDELrHIA.