Vol. I.
READ IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENT
TATIVES ON THURSDAY LAST.
United States, Nov. the 10th, 1791.
Gentlemen of the Senate and of the Hou.fi
of Representatives,
THE resolution patted at the last ses
sion of Congress, requesting the Presi
dent of the United States to caule an
estimate to be laid before Congress at
their next session, of the Quantity and
situation of the lands not claimed bv the
Indians, nor granted to, nor claimed by
any of the citizens of the United States,
within the territory ceded to the Uni
ted States by theftate of North-Carolina
and within the territory of the Unitcc
States north-weft of the river Ohio, ha:
been referred to the Secretary of State
a copy of whose report on that fubjeft
now lay before 'you, together with the
copy of a letter accompany ing it
G°. WASHINGTON.
Philadelphia, Nov. Bth, 179 1 ■
S!«,
T HAVE now the honor to enclole you a re
pert on the lands of the United Mates, within the
north wefter'.i and foyth-weftern terntor.es, un
claimed either by Indians or by citizens of tac..
order to make the estimate of their quantit;
and situation, as desired by the legislature, it ap
peared necessary, firft to delineate the Indianbouu
Varies which circumscribe those terntones.ana then
to present abatement of all claims of citiztnsw.thi.
the fame * from whence results the reflduary un
Srt whereon any land law the legisla
ture may think proper to pass, may opfirate ini-
T," ,|i ;l telv and without obftru&ion.
I have not presumed to decide on the merits oI
the several claims, nor consequently to inrefti
„te them minutely :-Th„ w.ll only be proper,
when such of them as may be thought doubtful,
J there should be any such, shall be taken up for
fhav" the horior to be, with sentiments of tl"
most perfect refpeit and ataihmi-nt,
&ir,
Your mejl obedient and moj,
humble Jervavt,
TH. JEFFERSON.
The President of the Umied States.
The SECRETARY of STATE, tc
whom was referred by the Pre s i
bent of the United States, tat
Resolution of Congress, requeftins
the President ' to cause an eflirnateto bt
laid before Congress at their next session
of the quantity and situation of the land,
not claimed by the Indians, nor grantee
to, nor claimed by any citizens of the Uni
ted States, within the territory adedto tip
United States, by the State oj North-Caro
lina, and within the territory of the lint
ted States, North-weft of the river Ohio
inakes 'hereon the following
REPORT.
Territory ceded bv the State of North
I Carolina to the United States, by deed bea,
in? date the 25th dav of February 1 .go, is bound
cd'as follows, 10 wit : Beginning in the bound,
arv between Virginia and Noith-Carolma that 1
to fay, in the parallel of latitude 36 1-2 degree:
north from the equator, on the extreme heig
of the Stone mountain, where the said bqunda
or parallel inters it, and running thence alon
the'faid extreme height to the place where W
tauso River breaks through it ; thence a d iec
course to the top of the Yellow Mountain, when
Bnght's Roadcroffes the fame ; thence alongth
ridge of the said mountain between the water, 0
Doe River and the waters of Rock Creek,
the place wh re the road c offes the Imr. Moun
tain ■ from thence along the extreme he.gnt o
said mountain to where No iehucke* River run
through the fame ; thence to the top of the
Bald Mountain ; thence along "t.em
heifcht of the said mountain to the painted rock
on French Broad River ; thence along the high
eft ridge of the said mountain, to the place wher.
it is called the Great Iron or Smoaky Mountain
thence along the extreme height of lb- f
mountain K, .he place where it is called Unak
Mountain, between the Indian towns of Cowe
and Old Chota ; thence along the main rid
the said mountain, to the southern bounds, 0
the said state of North-Carolina, that is ■
to the parallel of latitude 35 degrees north trot
the equator; thence weftwardly along the far
boundary or parallel, to the middle of the rive
By PHILIP FRENEAU.
MONDAY, November 14, 1791.
the said parallel td the beginning : which traf
of country is a degree and a half of lautt'de fron
north to south, anJ about 360 miles, in t ':nra!
from east to wed, as nearlvas may, be eitimatet
from such maps as exist of that countiy.
The Indians havirlg claims within , the Oik
tract of country, are, the Cberokeesand Chicka
i.tws, whose boundaries ;ire fettled by the trea
ties of Hopewell, concluded with the Cherokee
on the 28th day of November, 1785. and wjtl
the Chickafaws, on the loth day of [anna: v
1786, and by the neat•' of Holfton, 'cpncludcc
with the Cherbkees, Ju v ad, 1791 "• ' hefi
treaties acknowledge to the said ihdiajrs .ill th<
lands westward and louthwaid of the following
lines, to wit; be,. mum,', in the boundary be
tween South and North-Carolina, where tin
Souih-Catolma Indin boundary drives to.
lame.; thence north to a point from which a lint
is to be extended to the river Clinch, tiiat i.ial
pafs'the Holfton, at the which divides Bit
waters running into Little Rivei from vhoie : un
ninginto the TannifleeJ (bonce up the rivet
Clinch to Campbell's Line, and alons; the . ne
:othe top of the Cumberland Mountain ; thence
n a direst course towards the Cumberland .'ii
,-er, where the Kentucky road crolfes it, as far
ts the Virginia line,, or p.trajlel aforefaid, o.
3a 1-2 degrees ; thence weftwardly, or eaf]s\ : u
v, as the'eafe (fiall be, along the f.iid line or na
■ailel to the point ihereof, which is eue ho:th
•a(l from another point to be taken on thedivid
ng ridge of Cumberland and Duck -Rivera, .0
lilies from Nalhville ; thence ftuth-<veft to the
lorji t last mentioned, on tlie said dividingridje,
mdalono- the said dividing rid;e north-weftwvd
y, to where it is interfeeted by the laid Virginia
ine, or parallel of 36 1-2 degrees. So thit
here remained to the United States, the right ot
ire-emption of tfie lauds weftwajd and foush
vard of the said lines, and the absolute right io
hose northward thereof, that is to fay; to one
larcel to the east ward, somewhat triangular, com
irehending the counties of Sullivan-and W am
nion, and parts of those of Greene and Haw
tins, running about 150 miles trom eat, to wel,,
>n the Virginia boundary, as us bale, and De
ween 80 and go miles ti om no a!: to loiim,
where broadest f and centauries, a» may be con-,
eflured, without pretending to accuracy, be
ween seven and eight thousand square miles of
ibout five millions of acres : And to one other
jarcel to th'e westward, foriewhat triangular a.-
b, comprehending parts of the counties of Sum
jer, Davidfon, and Tanniffee. the bale *hereo:
txtends about 150 miles alio, from east to well,
jn the fame Virginia line, and it's height, trom
north to south, about 55 miles, and (0 may com
prehend about four thouland fijuare miles, or up
ivards of two and a half millions of acres 01
Withinthefe trianfl.es, however, are tlie fol
lowing claims of citizens, reserved by the seec
afe ffion, and confetjilcntlv forming exceptions
to the rights of the United States.
I. Appropriations by the date of North-C?-
rolirta, for their continental and Rale officers ane
soldiers. . .
11. Grants, and titles to "rants veiled in indi
viduals by the laws of the Hate.
111. Entr.es made in Armstrong s olbce, un
der an ast of that Hate, of 1783, lor the redemp
tion of specie and other certificates.
The claims covered by the Ift relervation are.
1(1. The bounties in land given by the I n■:
late of North-Carolina, to thei continental line
n addition to those given by. Congress ; toe,
,vere to be located within a dittntt bounder
lorthwardly' by the Virginia line, an-
wardly by a line parallel theretb, and 5$ nnlo
Jiflant. Weftwardly, by the Taunillrc, anc
;aftwardlv bv the meridian of the interleftion ol
•he Virginia line, and Cumberland river ;• grant.-
nave accordingly ifford for i,339>49° acres > ir '[
warrants for the fui ther quantity ct 1,5 9>7 ct
r. res, makingtogether 2,789,224 acies. ,
It is to be noted that the fouthweif m an,
foutheaftem angles of this dittrift, C6nfl.tOl.nf
perhaps a fourth or a fifth of the who.e, aie lou.,
us the lin-s eftablilhcd by the treaties cf Hose
well atld Holfton, and cbnfequentlv in a county
wherein the Indian title is acknowledged and
guarantied by the United States. No informa
tion is received oftheexaft proportit.ii of the lo
c uions made within thele a 1.• s.
2d Bounties in land to Evans's battalion,
nifed for (late purposes. Tbeie were toe
taken weft of the Cumberland IWountain. ne
locations are not yet made.
The second reservation covers the following
CI T Lands for the furveyo-general's fees for
l , ym , out the military bounties, to oe located n
the military did,ift. The grants already issued
on this account amount to 30,2'3 acre ..
8 Gran,, to Isaac Shelby, Anthon Bi d.
foe" and Absalom Taium, commilfioners for Jr
in,T out the military bounties; and to > g :
chain carriers, markers, audhwiwrs, who attend
Ed them, already ifiaed to the amount of £5,
932 acres, located in the military diftrift.
3.Entries in Washington county amounting
10 746,3,62 1-2 acres; for 214,5493-4 of which
grants have already llTued. Ot the remaining
531,812,3-4 acres, a conf.derable proportion
were declared void by the laws ol the lt.n.e,>and
were particularly ekcluded from the cover of the
-efervaiion m the deed cfceffion, by this clatife
n it, to v>it, Provided that nothing herein con
aihed (hallextend, or be construed to extend, to
he making good any entry or entries, or any
irant or grants, heretofore declared void, by anv
icf or acls of the General Assembly of this state.
Still it is to be confideied, that many of thele
ierfons have fettled and improved the lands, are
vllling, as is laid to comply with lucli conditions
iS ihall be required of other purchasers, form a
hong barrier on the new frontier, acquired by
he treaty of Hoi Hon, arid are therefore objects
meriting the conlideration of the legiflatuie".
4.. Entries in Sollivan county, amounting to
240,624 acres; for .173.33880 res of which grants
have already iffusd ; pr the remaining entries,
many are certified void, and others understood
:o be lapsed or otherwise voidable under the laws
}f the state.
5. Certain pre-emption rightsgranted to the
?rft ftttleis of Davidfon countv, 0:1 Ciimber
and river, amounting to 309,760 acres.
6. A grant of :00,000 acres to Richard Hen
icrfon and others on Powel'sand Clinch's rivers,
:xtending up Powel's river in a breaalth of not
•fs than 4-miles, and down Clinch's from their
unflion in a breadth not less than 12 miles. A
;reat part of this is within the Indian teriitory.
Among the grants <5f the fla'e now under re
:apitulation, as forming exceptions Out of the
:bfolu:e lights of the United States, irt rrot to
>e reckoned here two grants of 2,000 acres each
o Alexander Martin and David Wilfoii, adja
ent to the lands allotted to the officers and lol
liers ; nor a grant ol 25,000 acres on Duck river
u the late Major General Greene ; because
hey are wholly within the Indian territory, as
ckno-vlcdged by the treaties of Hopewell and
iolftod.
The extent of the third reservation in favour
if entries made in Armstrong's office is not yes
n*iro!y known, not can be t)U the soth-el I
1795, the last day given for perfecting
hem : the sum of certificates, however, which
lad been paid for these warrants into the trea
sury ofthe state, before the 20th day of May
1790, reaches in all probability near to their whole
amount; this was /" 373> 6 49- 6 5> currency of
:hat State, and at the price of/. 10 the hundred
icres eftablilbed by law, {hews that warrants had
fl'ued for 3,736,493 acres; For 1,762,660 of
?hefe, grants have palled, which appear to have
seen located partly in thecoun ies of Greene and
Hawkins, and partly in the country, from ihence
to the Miffifippi as divided into Ealtern, Middle
and Western diftrifts. Almost the whole of
these locations are within the Indian territory—
besides the warrants paid for as before mention
ed it is known that there aie some others out
standing and not paid for : but perhaps these
need not be taken into account, as payment of
them has been de puted on thr ground, that the
lands being within the Indian territory, cannot
now be a livered to the holders of the war
rants.
On a review of all the reservations, after mak
in fiich con "eftural allowance as our information
authorizes, for the proportion of them,which may
be within the Indian boundaries, it appears pro
bable that they cover all the ceded lands suscep
tible of culture, and Ch-ated of the Indian t.tle,
that is to fay, all the habitable parts of the two
triangles beforementioned, excepting only the
lands louth of French Broad, and 3ig Pigeon
Rivets. Thele were part of the tract appropri
ated by-the laws of the state, to the use of the In
dians, whose title being purchased at the late
treaty of Holfton, they are now free to be dif
uofed of by the United States, and are probably
the only lands open to their disposal, within (hi:
southwestern territory, which can excite the at
tention of purchasers. 1 hey are supposed to a
mount to about 300,000 acres, and we are told
ihat 300 families have already set down upor
them without right or license.
The territory of the United States nortnwell
of the Ohio, is bounded on the foufh by that ri
ver, on the east, by Pennsylvania, on the north
and weft, bv the lines which divide the United
States from the dominions of Great Britain and
Sf> Th'e part of this territory occupied by Indians,
is north and well of the following lines, efta
-1 11flaed with the Wiandots, Delawares, Chippa
was and Ottawasby the treaty of Fort M'lntolh,
andi with the Shawanefe, by that of the Great
Miami, to wit; beginning at the mouth of the
t avaho. a, and running up the river to the pou
a -e' between that and the Tufcaroras branch o!
theMutkingum, then down the laid branch to
the Forks, at the crofting place above Fort Law
cace then weltwardly, towaids the pottage ol
Numb. 5
the Big Miami, to the main branch of that river,
then down the.Miaini to theFoikof that river,next
below the old For ,which was taken by th; French
in 1752 ; thence due weft to the river De la
Pante, and iown that river to the VVabafh. So
far the lines are precil'e.ly defined, and the whole
country southward of these lines, and ea'tward ot
the VVabafi. cleared of the claims oi thole Indi
ans, as it is also of those of the Pou iwatinias,
and Sacs, by the treaty of MuOtingum. How
far on the other lide of the Wabalh, the southern
boundary of the Indians has been defined, we
know not. It is only understood in general,that
theirtitle toih lower country, betweenthat river
and (he Illinois, has been formerlv extinguiihed
by the French, while ifi their poileflion. As to
that countiy then, and what lies still Bevond the
Illinois, it would seem expedient that nothing be
done, till a fair afcenainmetit ot boundary can
take place, bv mutual consent, between us and
the Indiansinlereftcd.
The country within the Wabafb, the Indian
line before dcfcribed, the Pennfvlvania line,
and the Ohio, contains, on a loose eflimate, a-
Dout 55,000 square miles, or 35 millions of acres.
During the British government, great numbers
of perfonshad formedthemlelves intocompanies
inder different names, such as the Ohio, the
Wabache, the Illinois, the Mifiifippi, or Van
lalia companies, and had covered, with their
ipplications, a great part of this territory. Some
if them had obtained orders 011 certain conditi
ons, which, having never been fulfilled, their ti
les were never completed by-giants. Others
tfere only in a state of negociation, when the Bii
ifli authoiity was discontinued; Some of these
:laims being already Under a special reference by
irder ofCongrefs, and all of them probably fat
ing, nnderthe operation of the fame principles,
hey will not be itoticed in the present report.
The ■claim's if citizens o be-here ftaied Will be,
1. Those refeived by the state.-. in their deeds
i>f ceflion.
11. Those .which have arisen under the go
'ernmem of the United States themTelves.
Under the firtl had prefentsit'elf the trafl of
:ountrv from the comple ion qf the 4 1 ft degree,
.0 42 deg. 2 mm. of north latitude, and extend
ng from the F.nnfylvania ''tie beforemention
:d, tso miles weihvard.not meirtigQedinthedeed
jf Connecticut, wh le all the .country weft
ivaid thereof, was mentioned to be ceded; a
bout two and a half millions of acrcsof this inajr
perhaps be without the Indian lines beforemen
joned.
2. A rcfervation in the deed of Virginia of
the poiLfTions and titles of the French and Cana
dian inhabitants and other settlers of the Kutkaf
kias, St. Vincents, and the neighbouring villa
ges, who had piofefTed thenifelves citizens of
Virginia, which rights have been fettled by an
afct of the last fefiioii of Congress, intituled "An
ast for framing lands to the inhabitants and set
tlers at Vincennes and the Illinois country in the
territory north weft of the Ohio, and for con
firming them in their pofTeffions." These lands
are in the neighbourhood of the several villa
gers.
g. A rcfervation in the fame deed of a qunn
irv not exceeding 150,000 acies of land for
general George Rogers Clarke, and the officers
ind fo'diers of his reginent who were at he
eduction of Kafkafkias, and St Vincents, to be
iaid off in such place on the north weft fide of
;he Ohio, as ama onty of the officers iboiud
choose. Th 1 chose they Ihou'id be laid off 011
.he river adjacent to the rapids, which ac
cordingly has been dene.
4. A reservation, in the fame deed, of lands
between the Siota and Little M.ami, to make up
to the Virginia troops on continental establish
ment, the quanii'y which the good lands, in their
southern allotment, might fall lhort of the boun
ties given them by the laws of that state. 3y a
statement of the 16th of September 1788, it ap
pears that 724,045 2-3 acres had been fuiveyed
for them on the south eafietn fide of the Ohio;
that 1,395,385 1-3 acres had been furveved oil
the north wefternlide ; that warrants for 649 649
acres mOFe, to be laid off on the fame fide of the
the river, were in the hands of the lurveyor, and
it was supposed there might (till be some few
warrants not yet presented ;so that \his reserv
ation may be (Uited at 2,045,034 1-3 a res, or
perhaps some small matter more.
11. The claims of individual citizens derived
from the United States thenifelves ate the fol
lowing.
1. Those of the continental army, founded on
the resolutions of Congress of September 16,
1776, August 12, and September 30, 17S0, 3nd
fixed by the ordinance of M y 20, 1785. The
resolution of October 22, 1787, and the supple
mentary ordinance of July 9' 1,1
ven ranges of townlhips, beginning at a point on
the Ohio, due north from the weflern termina
tion of a line then lately run, as the southern
boundary of Pennsylvania ;orin a fccOnd tra£t
of a million of acres, bounded eafl, by the y,\\
range of the laid townships, south by the lands ofCutlernnd Sargent; north, by an extenfiono
the northern boundary of the said townships
and going towards the weft so far as to includ<
the above quantity, or, lastly, in a third tract o
country ; beginning at the mouth of the Ohio
and running up the Miftifippi to the river Ai
Vaufe, thence Up the fame till it meets a wef
line from the mOuth of the Little Wabafh
thence along (hat line to the G>eat Wabaih
thence down the fame, and the Ohio, to the be
ginning. The sum total of the 'said militar)
claims is 1,851 800 acres.
2. Thofc of the individuals who made pur
chafi' of land at New-Yoik. within the said fe*
ven ranges of townflnps, according to the refolu
tions of Congress of April '21, 1787, and tbc
fuppiemfniary ordinance of julv 9, 1788, whicl
claimsamount to 150,896 acres.
3. The parchafe of one million affd a half acr<
of land by Cutler and argent, on behalf of certtm
individuals, affociatcd under the name of the ( h ;
Company. 1 his begins where the hio is inter
fe&ed by the 'western boundary of the 7th rangi
ot townships, and runs due north on that bound,,
ry 1306 chains and 25 links; thence due weft t
the western boundary of the 17th range of town
lhips; thence due south to the C hio, and up tha
river to the beginning; the whole area contain
ing , 8 ,760 acrcs of land, whereof 28 ~ 60 acre
confiding of various lots and townships, are referv
ed to the United tates.
4. The pur chafe by the fame Cutler and argen
on behalf also of themselves and others. This begin
at the north-eastern angle of the tradl of their pur
chafe before described, and runs due north to th
northern boundary of the oth township from th
1. hio; thence due weft, to the ioto; thence dov,:
the fame, and up the hio to the fouth-wefteri
angle of the said pur chafe before described, an*
along the western and northern boundaries thereo
to the beginning , the whole area containing 1
90 ,480 acres of land, out of which, however
fiv lots, to wit, Nos. 6, 26, and .1
of every township, of fix miles square, are re
tained by the United State's, and out of the whol
are retained the three townships of Gnadenhut
ten, choenbrun, and alenr: and certain lane!
around them, as will be hereafter mentioned.
5. The purchase of ohn Cltves Symmes, boun
ded on the weft by the Great Miami; on the foutl
by the Ohio; on the east by a line which is to be
gin on the bank of the Ohio, 20 miles from th
mouth of the great fv iami, as measured along th
several courfcs of the Ohio, and to run parallel
with the general course of the said Great Iv iami
and on the north by an east and weft line, so rui
as to include a million of acres in the whole area
whereof five lots, numbered as before mentioned
are reserved out of every townftiip by the Unite<
States.
It is suggested that this purchaser, under colou
of a fir ft and larger proportion to the board o
Treasury, which was never closed, (but pendinj
that proposition) fcld funclry parcels of land, be
tween his eastern boundary before mentioned, an*
the Little i\ iami ; and that the purchasers hav
fettled thereon. If these suggestions prove true
the fettlcrs will, perhaps, be thought to merit th
favor of the legifluture, as purchasers for valuabl<
confederation, ;j aud without notice of the defedl 0
title.
The contrasts for lands, which were at one tim*
under confederation with MefTrs. Flint fetid Park
er, and with Colonel Morgan, were never i' 6Fa
prosecUted as to bring either party under any o'oli
gation. All proceedings thereon were difcontinu
cd at a very early ft: and it is supposed that n<
further views exist with any party, These, there
fore, are not to be enumerated among exiftinj
claims.
6. Three townships were reserved by the ordi
nance of May 20, 17 5 adjacent to Lake Erie, so
refugees from Canada and Nov a Scotia, and so
other pur poles, according to refolutinnsof Congress
made or to be made on chat fubjctfl. , liefe vvouli
of course contain 6 ,120 acres.
7. The fame ordinance of ay 20th,r 785, appro
priated the three towns of Gnadenhutten, Schoen
brun, and Salem, on the Muikingum, for the chril
tian inuians formerly fettled there, or the re
mains of that society, with the grounds round a
bout them, and the quantity of the said circum
jact-nt grounds, for each of the said towns, "wa
determined by the resolution of Congre's of Sep
tember 3d, 1 88, to be so much as, with the piai
of its refpeilive town, ou'd make up 4000 a
cres ; i'o that the three towns and their circumja
cent lands were to amounfto 12,000 acres. Thu
reservation was accordingly made out of the
larger purchase of cutler and Sargent, which
comprehended them. The Indians, however, for
whom the reservation was made, have chosen
to emigrate beyond the limits ef the United
States, so that the lands reserved for them, still
remain to the United States.
On the whole, it appears that the United ' tate«
may rightfully difpoi'e of all the lands between the
Vabafh, the Ohio, Pennsylvania, the forty-firfl
parallel of latitude, and the ndian lines described
in the treaties of the Great Miami, and Fort
iw'.ntofh, with exceptions only of the rights saved
by the deed of cefiion of Virginia, and of all rights
legally derived from the government of the Uni
tes States," and the pait louch of the
Indian lines, to contain as before conjectured a
bout 35 millions of acres, and that the claims ef
citizens before enumerated may am to be
tween thiitfeen and fourteen millions there remaiil
at the difpolal ot the United State:, upwards oj
twenty-one millions of acres, in this north-western
quarter.
And though the want of actual surveys of fomc
parts, and of a general delineation of the whol
on paper, so as to exhibit to the eye the
forms, and relative positions of the rights brfoH
described, may prevent our forming a weil de
fined idea of them at this distance, yet, on the
spot these dithculties exist but in a small degree i
The individuals there employed in the details oj
buying, felling, and locating, pofiefs local in
formationsof the parts which concern them, so*?
to be able to keep clearofeaih others rights; or
fin some inflances a conflict of claims should a
i iie, from any want of certainty in their definiti
an, a local judge will doubtless be provided to de
ide them without delay, at least provilionally
Time, infiead of clearing up these incertainties
will cloud them the more, by the death or remov
al of vvitnelles, the disappearance of lines ant
marks, change of parties, and other casualties,
TH. JEI-FERSOK, Sec'ry of State
Nov. 8, 179 1.
PHILADELPHIA,
November- 14.
CONGRESS,
KOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OI
THE UNITED STATES.
THURSDAY, Nov. 10.
A bill for renewing loft or deftroyec
certificates, was read a second time
and ordered to be committed to a com
mitteeof the whole houfc to-morrow.
Petitions were read from John Hep
ner, Thomas Jenney, Andrew Dover
Elijah Knapp, Jol'eph Kafh, Abrahan
Pyke, Matthias Sadler, and John To
zar, refpeftively praying compenfatioi
for wounds, occ. received in the arm)
of the United States during the late wa:
—referred to the secretary at war.
A meiTage from the President of the
United States was received by Mr. Se
cretary Lear, as follows, j See firft page
The report of the Secretary of State
being read, was referred to the com
rriitree appointed to prepare and brins
n a bill or bills to eftaolifh officcs so:
the purpose of granting lands withir
the territories of the United States.
Upor motion of Mr. Parker, it wa:
ordered, that the Secretary of the Trea
fury report to the House the amount o
the exports from the several diftrift:
within the United States, fefpeftively
also, of duties arising on imports anc
tonnage, from the 2gth of Septembei
1790, to Sept. 30th 1-791.
i J urluant to the order of the day, th<
House again resolved itfelf into a com
mitteeof the whole on the schedule o:
enumeration of the inhabitants of the
United States—Mr. Muhlenberg in the
chair.
Proportion be?ore the committee,
that until the next enumeration, the ra
tio of representation fhd.il be of one
member for every thirty thousand in
habitants.—The immediate motion anc
amendment before the committee, tc
strike out " thirty thousand"—
The motion and amendment beihe
called up—
Mi. Geftftv gave his opinion aga'infl
ftr iking out, and thought »he sentiment:
of the great body of the people oughi
to be well known previous to the a
doption of the amendment. Wher
the constitution was adopted, five state:
were in favor of the ratio last mention
ed. until the representation should be
increased to two hundred ; several othei
states had fignified their opinion thai
the number proposed in the constitu
tion was too i'mall to I'ecure the libertie:
of America.—The American govern
ment being by representation, he ob
lerved, that the House of Representa
tives was the only part of that govern
ment upon which the people had an
immediate check : the less, therefore,
the number consisted of, the less effici
ent would be the controul of the peo
ple over them—The increase of ex
pence had been matter of complaint to
some, but in future, he apprehended,
the time spent in thefeffions would rare
ly or never exceed four months in the
year, which would reftrift the expence
of an increased representation within
very moderate bounds. The citizens
of the United States had expected the
prelent would be the ratio adopted, and
although the House was not pofitivelv
bound by the constitution to give one
member for every thirty thousand, yet
it was expected this would be agreed
to ; and that fixing a representation of
one to forty thouland, would be con
sidered rather an unwarrantable stretch
of power. He observed that eight
states had already adopted the firft ar
ticle of the proposed amendments to
the constitution, and should they make
any alterations from the present ratio,
they might, in consequence of the rati
fication of said amendments by a fuf
ficient number of states. be obliged to
repeal the ast before the close of the
present leffion. When, upon the ra
tio already fettled, the reprefentatien
amount? to one hundred, Congress will
have an undoubted right to fix it there,
until they shy 11 establish lome ratio, by
which the representation and popula
tion shall keep pace with each ether,
till the number of rep re fen tat i ves in
Congress amounts to two hundred.
Mr. Boodisot was for flrikin£ out
" thirty thousand." The increale of
representation, he observed, would
otherwise become so great in a short
O
time as to impede the pVogrefs of busi
ness in the House. He had calculated,
that the ratio of thirty thoul'and would
produce 113 members ; thirty-five thou
sand would give 97 ; and forty thou
sand would produce 81. This last num
ber would be tolerable, if not exceed
ed ; which, however, must inevitably
be the cafe, on taking the next cenlus.
The increase of expence with an increas
ed representation was, in his view, a
serious object—if the number of repre
sentatives was doubled, the expence
would be prodigious, as not only the
amount of actual compensation must be
doubled, but double the time would be
necelTary to do the public business, as
every member had an equal right to de
liver his sentiments, and by this means
protraftthe feflions to an unreasonable
length. He did not fee that the liber
ties of the people required an immense
representation, the power veiled ir
Congress being not proportionate tc
their number. Ihirty-five thousand
he thought, would be the moll eligible
ratio, which would fix the number a
ninety-seven.
Mr. Clarke wasagainftan increafec
representation, as amongfl many othe]
ill consequences, it would increase the
number of public offices. The prefem
ratio he thought fufficiently favorable
uo the libei ties of the people, efpeciallv
when it was considered that the door:
of the house were open to the public,
Mr. Steele feared too numerous;
representation at one to thirty thousand
At the fame time the fractional number:
incident to the ratio of one to 40,00 c
would leave 369,000 people unrepre
lented. 1 hirty-five thousand he though)
the number at present least
obje£lions>, but that if the real voice oi
the- country could be obtained, he be
lieved that even 50.000 would not be toe
high a ratio. He dreaded too numer
ous an assembly, as in that cafe their de
liberations would generally be confufec
£nd tumultuous, which never fails tc
detract from the refpeftability of am
government. With refped to the pro
poled cohflitutional amendments h<
• bferved they had not been ado'ptec
by three-fourths of the slates, and tron
thence concluded thev would be finalh
rejected. Mr. Steele finifhed his obfer
nations by declaring that, as circum-
Itances flood, he would vote for thirty
five thoufahd. 7
Several thergentlemen having fpoki
on this fubjeft, the committee rose
when the House resolved, that, in com
mittce of the whole, it will again taki
the lehedule of enumeration into con
fideration to-morrow.
iVT I ' then < i ,rdered ' u P on motion o
lr. White, that a committee be ap
pointed to prepare and bring in a bil
providing for the settlement of th,
-Vaims of persons Under particular cir
~um (lances, barred by the limitation
leretofore eftablilhcd.
Adjourned till to-morrow.
FRIDAY, Nov. n.
. Mr. John W. Kittera, from Penn
ylvama, appeared and took his feat ir
he Houie.
The moll important business of th<
- louse being in the hands of committees
i motion was made for poflponmg th (
>r a 1 yMonday next.
Adjourned.
SECOND CONGRESS
OP THE
UNITED STATES.
'p t h:ladlh essi ° n ' l u gU " a " d held " th <= city o
the State of Pennfylvanv
on Monday the twenty-fourth ofOdo er on
thousand leven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT granting father time for makin,
return of the Enumeration of the Ivha
J?'" 'ln the D iftn£l of South-Carolina
jJ it enacted, by the Senate and Houf,
ZH,, r j P en tatives of the Unitec
ddtnft of bouth-Carolina tc
complete and make return of thn enu
meration of the inhabitants of the said
diftrift, to the President of the United
States, in the form and manner prescri
bed by the ast, intituled, " An act pro
viding for the enumeration of the inha
bitants of the United States," at any
time on or before the firft day of March
next, any thing in the said act to the
contrary notwithftandin<*.
J O
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of the
House of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United States, and President
of the Senate.
Approved, November the eighth, J791.
G. Washington, President of the
United States.
The firft number of Aratus appeared
in the American Daily Advertiser of
"Wednesday laft—lt is now reprinted,
at the request of the author, in the Na
tional Gazette ; and future numbers
(hall be regularly continued.
For the National Gazette.
ARATUS.
Number I.
THE effort of the people of France
to emancipate themselves from a
tyranny rigorous and of long duration,
has not been the productive source of
controversy to the European world on
ly. The flame it excited there, has been
communicated like an electric {hock
across the Atlantic, nor has the distance
nor the element through which it passed
been able to mitigate its fury. The dif
cuflion which was commenced on that
iubjeft in a neighboring monarchy, by
two men of eminence on the political
theatre, we have seen revived here with
equal ardour, and extended with won
derful rapidity by different dire&ions to
all parts of the United States.
T. he effect which this event produced
in the other hemisphere, if it had not
been too well authenticated to leave a
doubt behind, would otherwise have ex
ceeded the bounds of credibility. It ap
pears to have given the alarm to theo'd
eft and most firmly established monar
chies ; and even those, which but a few
years past, would have bade defiance to
the veteran armies of that ga'lant na
tion, ieem now to tremble for their fafe
ty. As if some contagious malady were
to be caught from the intercourse, all
communication is inhibited, where it
can be aecomplifhed, between their fub
jefts refpeaively, and those of that re
public. The king of Spain, we are told,
has lined his frontier with horsemen
who inceilantly patrole, for that purl
pole, from one extremity of his kingdom
r 1 ? 0th p r -~ The V n § s of England,
Naples, lruilia, and even the pacific
Leopold, are disquieted— and the Pope
is laid to dread more the introdudion of
an accurate account of their Operations
among his lubjefts, than the most blind
ly credulous and weak, of the Europe
an princes, formerly did his bull of ex
communication, or other the severest
ceniures of the church.
But the terror which this wonder
working Ipirit in Franca created, has
not been confined to the antient hemis
phere ; A kindred panic has reached
America. Great mifchief appears to be
apprehended from its widely fpreadin*
influence among the people ; and cham
pions or no common iize have arose to
combat it, by warning their country
its fatal tendency.
11.US, we behold the operations of
e rench, which have been confined
0 t e.r own territory and themselves ;
—operations too, which have onlv
lought some change in their own go
vernment, to make it more instrumental
to the general happiness, and founded
in the mild and benign I'pirit of peace,
aiftuhng over the civilized world, a
mong ceitain ranks of men, a general
1 may. Ihe movements of human
j r ln aII lts various stations, have
and forever will responsive to the
atne principles. A common danger
will unite those whose interests are the
ame. rinces, and those of royal hopes,
whom jealousy, pride, and ambition;
ivou otherwile have arranged in op
position to each other, when the ground
eir relpe&ive elevations is queftion
= /r°r t0 be enemi cs. And as they
poiids the power, and no person will
ooubt their inclination to exert it, ei
er to preserve or-acquire, those upon
w om the intolerant yoke has been pla-"cd. or who wish to ward it off, should
be the more viligant in their behalf.
In tracing on the faithful page of hif
tcry, the deplorable condition into
which that unfortunate, butaccomplifh
ed and gallant nation was plunged f'eve
ral centuries part, and the affli&ions
which have unceafmgly harraffed them
lince under the fcourgc of a rigorous
despotism, the tear of l'ympathy wiJl not
fall from the eye of the philanthropic a
lone. If we extend our observation to
the revolution which has been lately at
chieved. and contemplate its happy ef
fects on the present age, as well as those
which lie in {lore for posterity, the change
mull be considered an important one in
deed. The day on which the tyranny
fell, and the rights of nature lsng fup
preiTed and violated ; the day on which
the King, his ministers, and the proud
est nobles of his court, in common with
the humblest peasant in the field, bowed
under the authority of the law, was an
happy one for France. When the lat
ter, standing alone, and unsupported by
the patronage of friends, might with
fafety fay to the former " whilst I ful
fil my moral obligations, and discharge
my duty to the state, I fear you not:
those paflions heretofore more fiercc and
terrible, than the severest blasts of Hea
ven, and which of late would have
struck me from exillence, for a less of
fence. have now a barrier formed a
gainst them-, which tvill baffle their
icrce : the sentence of my peers miift
pafsupen me, before I can be injured."
Ihis indeed was an important and a
happy day, not for the people of France
only, but for all mankind.
It we look into the interior ofthe sur
rounding monarchies, the most frightful
picture presents itfclf to view. There
despotism still reigns with unabated
vigour. It has deprived man of his
natural and civil rights, and left him
r.aked and exposed to the blow, whene
ver malice or the unprovoked revenge
of those in power choose to inflict it. !t
has made that balm of comfort, which
was kindlv interwoven in the frame of:
his being, by the Author of his Exig
ence, the source of his opprefSon. It
has raised upon his religious faith, upon
his belief in Heaven and a future state
(a coniolation which no eart'hlv tribu-j
nal can give or take away) a long train
of hisrarchal establishments, which
serve only to add to the power ana the
splendour of the court. Preying in
fkort, in every respect, on the best 'in
terests of man, it has done every thing
but exterminate him.
To those who are placed at the head
of nations, in this situation, who have j
every thing to hope from its continu-t
ance, and a long account to render for
past enormities, if they should ever be
called to account, any change that may
pofTibly tend to diflurb their security.
must be alarming. That they should
di(countenance the revolution in France,
misrepresent the mild and lenient mea
sures which led to it, traduce and vilify
the chaiafters of those illustrious patri
ots who have been the principal medis
of its accomplishment, and, in fine, wish
to throw a veil over their whole pro
ceedings, cannot be matter of lurprize.
The light of truth and of reafen mull
not penetrate through the dreary gloom,
which despotism has created, and now
forms its only support, or its millions
are undone.
But the principle upon which the
French revolution was founded, is not a
novel one here. Whoever appeals to
thole solemn acts, which juftified us to
the impartial world, in taking up arms
against Great-Britain, and dismember
ing ouifelves from that monarchy, if lie
views them through an unbiassed me
dium, must recognize it there. In Ame
rica. indeed, the tyranny was in embryo
only, and at a distance—and yet we
conceived ourselves authorised, to ap
ply timely force to prevent its establish
ment. In France it was at the height,
and at home, and they suppressed it. In
both instances, the power which belong
ed to the body of the people, and which
had been, or was about to be wrested
from them, was resumed. It now rests
where it should be, in possession of the
rightful proprietors, ana will be exerci
sed for their advantage. Whoever owns
the principles of one revolution, must
cherish those of the other; and the per
son who draws a distinction between
them, is either blinded by prejudice, or
boldly denies what at the bar of reaion,
he cannot refute. To the people of
f ranee it mull be matter of aftonilh
nent,that a contrary sentiment can exist
lerc; and those patriots who fought
ino. bled,in our service, and who bear
uch honorable testimonials of their no
lle 'md brilliant exertions in the holy
'aufe of freedom, on this fide of the At
antic, although surrounding nations
hould now reprobate their conduct,
nuft calculate with certainty upon our
ountenance and support.
ARATUS.
f~ ELIZABETH-TOWN, Nov. 9.
We hear from Trenton, that a peti
ion has been presented to the legilla
ure, by the fubferibers to the Natfona
Vlarlufaftory, for a charter of incorpo
ration for the jurifdi&ion of territory
lot exceeding 6 miles square ; with the
mvilege of making bye-laws ; they al
o ask an exemption from taxing the
lock of the fubferibers, and a lottery
or three years.
We likewise hear that the Secretary
)f the freafury, Col. Hamilton, was tc
lave been with the legislature lafl
lhurfday to elucidate any thing thai
nay appear abstruse, and obviate feem
ng difficulties, in establishing the Na
tional Manufa&ory
BURLINGTON, Nov. 8.
Extratl of a letter from a gentleman at Fort-ai
Pi.nee, to hisfriend in this city, datedo6l. 13.
"Though you have certainly hearc
jfthe infurredlions in the environs o:
his city, all that has been laid Can hard
y describe the horrid depredations they
rave committed. The loss occafionec
hereby is computed at upwards ol
20 millions sterling, and their progixf:
-s far from being flopped. Our army
las had several engagements with them
md has taken a number of their men.
vith several field-pieceSi You will per
laps be surprised to hear that the Ne
groes are well supplied with fire-arm:
md ammunition, till you are informed
hat every plantation had a number oi
ire-arms for their Own defence, witl
jowder in larg« parcels which wSrt
nade ul'e of occasionally to blqw uj
ocks, &c. These they made themfelve:
nailers of. Many of the planters wen
nurdered ; and those who made theii
:-fcape, were obliged to fly with th<
neatefi precipitation. The greatefl
>art of the inhabitants were obliged tc
ib on guard two hours every night in
he city, and every man to stay two day;
n the week at the camp. It is fuppofec
hat one hundred thousand Ntgroe;
lave revolted in the illand."
philau elphia,
November 14.
On Friday last Mr. Hammond, lately
as-rived in this city from London, wa;
presented to the Prelident of the Unitec
States, as Plenipotentiary from th;
court of Great-Britain.
Col. Henry Lee is elected Govern
or of Virginia by the Legislature of thai
state. The votes were for Col. Lee—B7
Mr. Harvey— 50 ; Gen. Wood—2o.
On lhurfday last arrived here th<
brig 1 heodofia, Capt. Lake, from Capi
r rancois, after a paflage of eighteer
days. When Capt. Lake left the Cape
nothing particular had occurred re
fpecting the negroes in that quarter
who remained in nearly the fame fitua
tion as at the date ol our former advices
The day before Capt. Lake failed, a sri
gate with a number of troops left the
Cape to attack a large body of negroe
at Port Magot.
Some accounts are also said to have
been received by the fame v«#el, pur
porting that the mulattoes in the neigh
borhood of Port au Prince had revolted
and that 1500 of them had taken pof
session of Leogane, with an intent to at
tack Port au Prince. Twenty thoufanc
negroes, in that part of the illand are
also said to have revolted; who are in
camped in a plain, not far from Port at
Prince. Relief was looked for frorr
Europe the latter endof November, bu:
till that should arrive it was not expect
ed that any general check could be giv
en to the ipirit of the revolt ; which
appears the more probable as the ne
groes in French liifpaniola are in pro
portion to the whites as 100 to one.
The [alary of the PrifuUnt of the National Bant
is net fixed at 3,000 dollars, as mentioned in om
of our preceding papers : the Stockholders at c
general meeting altne having that ptwer.
-J
ORDINANCE and BYE LAWS > the Rclu
lotion of the Bank of the United States!
a genera! meeting of the Stockholders o
the Bank of the United States, held a
the City-Hail in Philadelphia, on Monday even
ing, Odtober 31, 1791, agreeably to adjourn
ment—
MR. BINGHAM, from the Committee ap
pointed at the last meeting to report fuel
>ye-Laws, Ordinances, and Regulations, as flial
eem necefTary and convenient for the Govern
nent of the Corporation, made report—and th<
ame being taken into consideration, after debate
the Stockholders agreed to the following Ordi
lance :
SECTION t.
THE Charter of Incorporation granted to th<
of the United States, amonglt othe:
•ghts, privileges and abilities therein conveyed
'avmg impowered the Stockholder at genera
neetings, legally convened, to make, ordain, ef
abbOi and put in execution, such Bye-Laws, Or.
inances and Regulations, as fliall seem necefTar)
nd convenient for the government of the faic
-oiporation : Be it ordained, by the President
)iredofs and Company of the Bank of the Unitec
tates,
SECTION 11.
That the Bank fliall be open for the trdnfa&ior
r bunnefs, everyday in the year (Sundays,Chrift
3as»day,and the fourth of July, excepted) dur
rig such hours as the Board of Directors lhal
eem advifeable.
SECTION 111.
I hat the books and accounts of the Bartk flial
ie kept in Dollars and Cents, and /hall be regu
ariy balanced on the fir ft Mondays in Tanuary am
uiy, in each year , when the half-yearly Divi
■ ends fliall be declared and published in at leaf
our of the public newfpapens.
SECTION IV.
That the Bank, fliall take charge of the Cash o
ill those who chufe to place it there (free of ex.
ence) and fliall keep it fubjeft to their order
a} able at fight j and fliall receive deposits cf in
ots of gold, bars of filvor, wrought plate, or othe
aluable articles of small bulk, in the fam.
nanner, and return them on demand of the de
i^fitor.
SECTION V.
That the Bank fliall receive all specie coins
ccording to the rates and value that have beer
»r fliall hereafter be eftabliflied by Congress.
SECTION VI.
That until offices of discount and deposit flial
ie eftabliflied, there fliall be at ieaft two difcouni
lays in every week, when meetings of the Boarc
•f Directors fliall be afTembled. Discounts flial
>e made at a rate not exceeding Six per Cent, pa
innum, on Notes or Bills of Exchange that have
lot more than iixty days to run, and with at leafl
wo responsible names, and under such modifica
ions, as the Board of Dire&ors, in their difcre
ion, fliall deem fatisfa&ory and expedient.
SECTION VII.
That the President fliall have power to con.
ene the Directors on special occasions, and
vith the approbation of the Board of Directors.
0 affix the leal of the Corporation to all convey
inces or other instruments, and sign the fame ir
jehalf of the Corporation j the said seal fliall al.
vays remain m the cultody and fafe keeping of
be President.
SECTION VIII.
That a Committee of the Board, confifling of ai
east three members to be elected monthly by ballot
hall visit the vaults, in which the cash and othei
ffedts fliall be deposited, at least once in even
nonth, and make an inventory of the fame, t'(
>e compared with the books, in order to afcertair
whether they perfectly agree therewith.
SECTION IX.
That no notes of the Bank fliall be struck 01
igned, or Baak Paper made, but by dire&ion o]
:he Board.
SECTION X.
That in cafe the Board of Directors fliall at a
ly time make a Dividend exceeding the profits oJ
:he Bank, and thereby diminifli the capital Stock,
he Members aflenting thereto, fliall be liable in
heir several individual capacities for the amount
>f the surplus so divided.
SECTION XI.
That the Board of Directors fliall, previous
:o the firft day of December in every >ear, call a
jeneral Meeting of the Stockholders, ro be aftem
jled within three dajs after each annual elec
;ion.
SECTION XII.
That the Board of Directors are hereby em*
lowered to demand and receive from the Commif
lioners appointed to superintend the fubferiptions
;o the capital Stock of the Bank, all Monies which
lave been paid to the said Commiflioners on ac
:ount of the firft Ipecie payment, together with
:he original Book of fubfeription.
SECTION XIII.
That the Board of Dire&ors are hereby au
:horized to ascertain and determine in what man
ner the remaining portions of the capital Stock,
iue on the share lubfcribed,confifting of specie arid
public Debt, fliall be paid and received, and they
ire hereby further authorised and empowered to
eceive into their pofleffion the Certificates of said
public Debt, and demand and receive by their
President, or in such other manner as they fliall
:hink proper, the interest that fhali accrue and be
:omc due upon thefame, and to give ieceipts there
for in behalf of the said Corporation.
SECTION XIV.
That the Board of Diredtors are hereby author
zed and empowered to fix and establish requisite,
fafe and convenient forms for transferring Bank
Stock ; for receiving half yearly dividends j for
:onveying a right to Proxies to represent Stock
lolders at any general Meeting after the second
Monday of January next; for the Certificates of
:apital Stock of the Bank ; for the circulating
ind post Notes of the Bank ; and for the oath or
iffirmation of the Officers of the Baak, previous
o their entering on the execution of their refpec
ive duties.
SECTION XV.
That the Board of Directors are hereby au
horized and empowered to establish a common
fwl > wu!l Citable devices; to sfcertain and mark
out the various duties and employments of tils
Officers, Clerics and Servants of the Bank, and
to direct therti accordingly; as iveli as to deter
mine the am >in t of Securities they ffiall refpec
tiveiv give r'or the faithfu-1 discharge of their du
ties : to assign to the President such additional
fundtio.-is, as are not already designated by law j
and to le-ifiue or renew at their discretion the
Notes in circulation.
SECTION XVI.
That the directors shall have power to make
loans to the government of the United States, or
as any State, to such extent and on such terms asi
they (hall deem expedient, not contrary to law :
provided that a Board confining of not less than
a majority of the whole number 01 Diredtors, (hall
be neccflary to decide in all such caf-s.
'S E C T 1 O N XVII.
That the Board of Directors are hereby author
zed to lease or hire fur a teim not exceeding two
*ears, such suitable buildings as the adminiftra
• ion of the affairs of tne Hank mav require.
SECTION XVIII.
That in cafe it fhail happen that an election of
Direflors (hail not be made at a meeting of the
Stockholders for that purpose on the firfi Monday
3t January n-xt, and on laid day in each fucceed
n£ it shall be lawful for the Stockholders to
idjourn said meeting to any future day within five
Jays from laid firft Monday of January, and aC
laid adjournment to make, complete and finilh
laid election.
SECTION XIX.
That the Boatc ofDire&ors are hereby imppw
ered to form ana eftabliffi all other Rules and' R
egulations that they may.deem necessary for the in
terior management of the Bank.
On motion, Resolved, That it is the sense of
the Stockholders of the Bank of the United StateS,
that the Prcfident and Directors, fhouid turn
their immediate attention to the establishment o'f
Offices of Discount and Deposit at such places in
the United States as the interest ana fafety of the
institution will admit. Attest,
EDWARD FOX, Sec'ry.
PRICE op STOCKS.
Funded Debt.
Six per cents, - 22J to 22
Three per cents, . - - J2 y- 9 .
Deferred fix per cents, - - i^f.
Unfunded Debt.
Final settlements and other cer
"tes, .... ]0 r
Indents, - . . , t/ ' 7-
Bank fubfeription, - 14.1.
For the National Gazette.
ON THE SLEEP OF PLANTS.
(A curious new aifcovery.)
WHEN funs are set, and stars in view,
Not only man to slumber yields ;
But nature grants this blessing too,
To yonder plants in yonder fields.
The summer heats and lengthening days
(To them the fame as toil and care)
Thrice welcome make the evening breeie,
That kindly does their strength repair*
At early dawn, each plant survey,
And fee, revived by nature's hand,
With youthful vigor, frefh and gay,
Their blofl'oms blow, their leaves expand.
Yon garden plant, with weeds o'er-run,
Not void of thought perceives its hour,
And, watchful of the parting fun,
Throughout the night conceals her flawer.
Like us, the slave of cold and heat,
She too enjoys her little span,
With reason something less complete
Than that which makes the boafl of man.
Thus, moulded from one common clav,
A varied life adorns the plain ;
Bv nature fubjeft to decay,
By nature meant to bloom again !
GEORGE MEADE
HAS FOR SALE,
At his Stores on Walnut-Street Wharf,
A FEW pipes of 1 ard e, years old bills of ex
change Madeira WINE, -which be will dif
poje cf by the pipe, hogjhead or quarter cajk.
London market Madeira WINE, j and 6 years
old.
Old Sherry WINE of the frjl quality, by the
hog/head or quarter eafk.
Three and 4 years eld Lijbon WINE, of a Ju
perior quality to what is generally imported, by the
pipe, quarter cajk, or larger quantity.
Choice old Conine BRANDY, by the pipe, tierce,
or larger quantity.
/Ifcm quarter chefs offirfi quality Hyson TEA.. ,
He has jufi received by the Pigsu, Loxicy, mafier,
/•cm London, a few quarter calks of old Madeira
WINE—And
by the brig Mercury, capt. Stevens, from Dub
lin, a few boxes of Irijh LINENS, low prited
and well afjortid : a few bales of Red and White
PL ANNhLS, and Jcme GLUE.
A few boxes cf Spermaceti CANDLES of the
r fi quality, aid But hngton PORIC of prime qua
'ity.
He has afio to difpefe cf a quantity of dreffid
White Oak STAVES. J J J)
He means to keep a cenfiant supply of Firfi dua
lity Maaeira and Lijbon WINES, and whoever
s pleajed to favor him with their cujlom, may be
sffured of being well fcrved.
He will through the Winter ar.i Spring, hui
mdreJJ'ed HANDSPIKES. He i, purchaf.fr
FLAXSEED aud BEES WAX, and will g:vt
'he highejt Price for them.
V. • si few Hampers of excellent London
PORTER and Taunton ALE, jufi received and to
'ie disposed of. ' ,fA MISTAKE RECTIFIED.
By Sin bat, the Sailor,
YOtfß men cf the iand, from the King t<
Jack Ketch,
AH j'>»n in fuppofrng'the Tailor a V;retch ;
That his life is a fcer.e of vexation and woe,
\Vitb aiways too much or too little to do.
Jn the dead' of the night, wher other men sleep,
T-le, starboard and larboafd, his watchefmuft keep
Imprilun'd by Neptune, he lives like a dog 5
To know where he is, must de; end on a log ;
/WlUtt fret in a calm, and must h?.h in a storm 5
]n winter, much to keep himielf warm j
the heat of the iummer he follows h;
trade, . ,
Not a tree, but histop-maft to yield him a lhade
Then add to the lift of a mariner's eviis,
The water corrupted, the bread full of weevils :
Salt.Junk* to be eat, be it better or wotfe,
And often Bull-beef of an Irishman's horle—
Whoever is free, he must fti:l be a slave,
Dejpctic is a/ways the rule on the i v~a r ve :
Not reliih'd on water, your lads of the main
Abhor the republican do&rines of Pain£,
And each, like the Defpct-|- of Prullia, ma;. fr.y,
That his crew has no right—but the Right to ol i
Thus argue the landsmen : but Sinßat we
knows
Things ale not so bad as tfiefe lubbers suppose.
There ne'er was a taP* but afforded some eaie,
Nor employment in life, but had lomething .
pieafe.
]f the sea has its storms, it has also its ca.ms,
A tifhe to sing songs, and a time to sing psalms
Yes give me a vefiel well timber'd and four..
Her bottom well plank'd,a-nd in rigging well found
If her fails are but good, and her oakum iwej.
tight, ,ri
From yon damnable waves I'll extra# some delight
You'll fay, its a prison, (by way of abusing)
But, if Us a prison—'tis of my own choosing
At sea I wouM rather have Neptune my jailor,
Tlran a lubber on (hi re, who drf P :f- s a ljllor.
Do you a!k me what pleasure 1 find on the sea .
Why atfencc/rem land is a pleasure to me
A hamper of porter, and plenty of grog,
A friend, on occasion, to give rfie a J°£'_
A c<><*p that will always some poultry afford,
Some bottles of gin—and no parson oh board —
A crew that are br.fk when it happens to blow,
A compass on deck, and a compass below,
A girl,' with more fenle than the girl a: tbt beai
To read me a novel—or, make up my bed
The man that ha* these, has atreafore in (tore,
That millionspolftfs nM—who liveupon fhcre-
But—if it (hould happen that commerce grew _du
Gr Neptune, grown crusty, ihould batter my hu
Should damage my cargoes, or get me aground,
Or pay me with farihi gi in lead of a poend
Should I always be left in the rear of the race,
And ibis be forever—forever— the cafe.
Why, then—if the honest, plain truth I ma y tc;
I'd clew up my top-fails—and bid him farewell
SIN B A * •
Philadelphia, Oft. 12.
* The Jcafaring term for very old, or lean beef.
Fn hrick id.
BOSTON Nov. 2.
GOOD news! IF TRUE.
[* s * The editor feels some relu&ancc
in communicating the following, left ,t
should not be authentic. He receive*
itfiom a gentleman of this town, whe
received it from a gentleman at Halifax
The editor is happy to announce intel
ligence, but would not willingly be tin
medium of public deception : Aiter fug
feft:Kg his doubts, he lays before tht
public the following :]
Ext rati of a letter from. Halifax, Sept. 24
A new fi<3 of parliament has lateh
palled, which the colkftor is poffellec
of, which admits of a free intercom fe ir
American' bottoms with all the Britift)
Weft-India JJlands —and the colle&o
fays he is alio advised, the fame privi
are to be permitted the American.
here."
By the arrival of the brig Union,Capt
Atkins, in 49 days from Cadiz, we hav<
received information of war havins
been declared by the Spaniards again!
the Moors.
The several American veflels feiiec
in Liverpool, had received their trials
and were cleared.
Capt. Bickford arrived at Salem thi
29th ult. from Cape-Francois, whicl
place he left the 2d. reports that ;ooc
Spaniards had joined the black army
with an intent undoubtedly to add tc
their's that part of the illand of St. Do
iniii§o now poifefled by the French.
Official Accounts from France.
Since our last, Captain Mongo Mac
kay, jun. in the Brig Mermaid, arrivec
•in this port from Havre de Grace, ir
France, which place he left the 10th oi
September. Among the paflengers i:
Captain S. Dunn, of this town, togethei
with Messrs. Parrman, Coolidge anc
Mackay, sons of some of our mod re
fpe&able citizens, who have refidec
some years at an academy in France
and appear by their manners, informj
tion, and understanding, to do ample
iuftice to the persons who have had the
charge of their education in that pt 1 tt
and enlightened country. Capt. Duni:
>.nd these" gentlemen, have travelled
t!trough the greater part of t ranee, aiid
-rave had thebeft opportunities of pro
:uririg. as well from their own particul
ar obiervatiOn. as the conversation o;
others, the most authentic information
:if the present state of that kingdom.
By their atcoifnts, the King had tro"
[igned the COnftitution —though it was
Liniverfally believed he would foor
meet the wishes of his fellow-citizens
hy giving his final fanftion to this cali
brated inftrumfint. It was supposed b\
many, that he would raalie no eflenti.i
objections ; "but give it his full appro
bation, with the reierved right of pai
don in cases of treason 'or rebellion, tt
. jcurp the friends of the monarchy, n
hi old form. fVovn'the evils and penaltie.
to which they nr'iht otherwile be expo
fed. The King was at perfect liberty
having fclefted his guards from the cm
zens'compofitt" the natitmai 61diers
i'rofound tranquility appeared in ever;
part of the kingdom, and,the iilterrup
non, with the rumours of which, w<
havefo often been alarmed, by the Bri
tifh jtapers, have been ei her fabricatec
iltogether, or highly exaggerated, to fa;
'.10 more-, by the aristocratic paity, tc
their own views, and promot
their own interest.
The depreciation of the aflignats, ha
ifeen occasioned in a great measure, a
those gentlemen report, by the want o
a imalf paper currency, to fupplv the
wants of the people. Bu* that precau
ions were t'aktn to remedy this incon
venien'cc, by emitting frnall bills, on pri
vate credit, winch, as far as the experi
ment had been made, proved success
'ul.
It seems that the fears'of a counter re
volution from any real 01 fuppofea ae
;etls in the conftitntn n. had entuei\
ianifhed ; as the aftonifhin? and almof
uiexampled unanimity which prevails
precludes even the hopes of the mal
rontents- from this quarter. 1 here i:
lothing therefore, to resort to, but th<
interference of fove'reign nations, anc
he Germans in ah especial manner, tc
npport the expiring dreams of the aril
ocracy, at this event. But the Germar
rontier is firmly guardedby an immenlt
irmy sustained by the active val anc
rourage of their aiTotiafes, which p: 2
ents the ftr'ongeft barrier againlt an in
•afion.
The French, in fine, have three mini
>ns tff men at arms —well accoutred
;nd fully.determined to riih all in de
ence of their freedom. It was report
:d that distentions had taken p'.-ice be
ween the Marquis de Bouille ant
:ount d'Artois. In conlequence o
vhich, the former of these gcntlemei
lad retired to Sweden.
The national assembly had taken th<
vile precaution to place the heir appa
ent under the care of M. de !a Fayette
eft the future intrigue- of the anfto
ratic party might render it neceftin
o have recourse to a regency, providec
he king ihould choole to abdicate the
< mcdom, and thus forfeit all conftitu
ional pretenlions to the Crown. I
ivas generally imagined that trade anc
nana failures would revive and flouri'h
is loon as the government was establish
rd, by the figmng of the Conftitucion
The elections had gone ih favor of tin
revolutionists, and had lucceeded witi
he least pofiible disturbance.
On the whole, the present state o
France was quiet, and the profpeft o
futurity, brilliant and flattering in .
nigh degree.
It is with peculiar pleasure that th<
:ditor can give the public the prefen;
ccount, which from the known credi
jiiity of the authors of it, appears in
:onteftible.
From the Georgia Gazette, Oft. 13
The light-house on Tybee-Ifland wil
lereaftei be regularly lighted, and the
ollowing directions are given for failing
n, over the bar :
Bring the light-house to bear weft, oi
lot more than W. 1-2 S. or W. 1-2 N.
md calculate the tide, at half past seven,
it full and change.of the moon, to be ful
lea. If little wind, in (landing in, allow
or the tide. The ebb fet'ting to the
southward. over the south breakers, yoi
must steer W.N.W. Asfoonas you fhoa
your water, haul up more to the north
ward; then you must steer W. S. W
with light winds. When you get th;
iight-houfe to bear from S.E. to S. vol
may bring up from three and ail half to five
fathoms at low water, muddy bottom
being within 1 1-2 cables length of the
" j
"hore. ThereVou'ftiay.'ie Tafe v/ith an)
-at an easterly wind. When you get or
h- bar you will have 18 feet at low wa
er. with a hard bottom ; at high water.
n three and an half to four fathoms,
After having paiied the bar yoa wil
have a foft.bottom. Ihe diftarice ion
three fathoms water, coming ove: th;
■ ir, until the wat££ deepens, <
mile. The width of the channel, froit
oreaker-r.c. Ito breaker-heau, half.
mile. Observe when you nr,d you ge
jitirer to the southward or to the noitn
ward of the foregoing directions, anc
have no wind, let go your anchor.
F IT T S B U R G rf, bfl- 29.
Saturday last. the Z2d inft. Geneia
Marmar arrived at this place with h:
ady and luite. —On his debarking, (ha
yingcome up the river.in his ht
was received by a train of artillery, witl
1 dil'charge of sixteen rounds. Thi
;ompliinent was intended the General
not merely as a matter of form on the
reception of an officer of his rank, ba
15 particularly expressive of the fenfi
which the inhabitants of this place en
tttrain of his personal good qualities
ind his conduct while at the head of th<
loop's to the westward.
Our accounts from Fort Wafhingtor
are, that the army had advanced abou
:'o days ago ( 20 miles and had built ;
fort; by this time they are at the Mia
mi towns, where Lead quarters will re
main some time.
CHAMBERSBURG, Nov. 3.
By a gentleman from the weftery coun
:ry, the following is related, which ma)
je depended on : " That on the fir ft o
September, one man was killed by the
Indians at the new settlement of Bellc
prix ; and four men and a boy who were
driving cattle from Clarkfburgh toMuf
kingum, shared the fame fate."
We are also informed, that on Frida\
the 21ft of October, two men were kill
:d and scalped by the Indians, on the
waters of the Kifkaminitas, about twen
ty miles from Greenfburg, in date,
SHEPHERD's-TOWN, Oft. 31.
Art officer of the Wedern army ha<
received authentic accounts from Pod
St. Vincent, dating, that a large numbei
>f Indians havealfembled at the Mauinc
owns—that they drew provisions, &c
it the British pod of Detroit, and thai
tvety encouragement was held out tr
-.he Canadians to join the savages againfl
is.—That the enemy are numerous, bu;
is -"e are and shall continue to be, pre
3 a red lor the expetled interview, 0'
;ourfe nothing will be left undone tc
up the spirit of the army. Num
bers of our men ha ve deserted, previous
o our arrival—a great number are now
lrxler guard—and court-martials lit dai
v on the trials of officers arreded, and
dences of loldie? s—many of the latter
or crimes capital. The Indians have
ately done little more than dealing s
ew horles, and have failed in ievera!
ittempts to kill or take several of oui
mall parties.
Extract of a letter from an officer in th.
wejiern army, tq a gent!-man in this town,
dated Camp, Great Miami, Sept. 19.
Since I wrote you per Col. M'Mul
en, dated at Bourbon county, Aug. 23.
lothing remarkable has occurred ; bul
[ suppose you are anxious to know oui
iroceedings, I shall therefore write you
is often as opportunity serves. On my
■vay from Kentucky, I came by fori
vVafhington, where I arrived the 7th
nftant—found Col. Dalk,who then hac
lie command of the whole army, (Gen
eral St. Clair being absent in Kentucky}
ind had begun his march, and proceed
:d nine miles on his way for this place:
! overtook them the Bth, when the whole
:rmy, including non-commissioned offi
:ers and soldiers, effectives, amounted
is follow : id United States regiment.
;o 1 ; 2d United States regiment, 39
■ihea s battallion from Carolina, 85 ;
father's from Maryland, 182; Patter
on's from Jersey, 155 ; and the Virgi
lia battallion 275 ; total, 1019 effective
lon-commiffioned officers and soldiers ;
•:;clufive of which there were left at
lead quarters about 70, as a garrison.
We continued our march on the morn
ng of the 10th, and arrived here on the
;vening of the lame day, where we have
tontinued since, and where, befidesoui
guards, which mull be numerous, to fc
:ure our horses. cattle, &c. we fend a
..ally fatigue of upwards of 200 men.
who "are' engaged in ercftirlg a fort on
he bank ot the Great Miami, in thedi
eElion of N. 17 deg. W. 23. miles from
"ort Washington.
" We have with us seven pieces of
jrafs cannon part of which will be
it this post, to guard the palTage of the
river, ' We shall continue to ere'tt forts
mti'l the Kentucky militia arrive, a
nounting to 1100 men (who will remain
>ut a short time in service.)
" Yesterday arrived a reinforcement
jf upwards of 300 men, consisting of the
Treated part of the ad United States re
giment, under the command of major
tlart ; also, two battallions of levies,
mder the command of colonel Giblon.
The whole number of the army about
!y 00 —a*id the Kentucky militia, and
they will make near 3000 —a force by
no means equal to our former expecta
tions.. ..
CHARLES BITTERS,
No. 120,
South Market, Hear Fourth Street,
tias received from New-York, and manufaflured
BY LOT MERKEL,
A large and General AfTortment of
Muffs cs 5 Tippets, Trimmings &
Edgings,
Great Coats, Caps, Mitts & gloves lined with Fur;
which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lovveft Prices.
Oct. 4. iawtf
ITO BERT SMOCK,
Woollen Draper & Mercer,
Has just re eivea by the fliit) Pigou, from Lon
don, and for sale at his store, on the north
e..ft corner of Market & Third
"Streets, Philadelphia,
AN ELEGANT ASSORTMENT OF
SUPERFINE and super broadcoths, in aimoft
every colour.
lupe. Hne habit cloths, in the most falhion
able colours.
■> jperfine caffuners, do.
, o. and super elaitic striped clorhs.
Vlilled drabs unJ hunters cloths.
■\ variety ot fancy waiffcoating, in f.!k, silk and
cotton, silk. moleskin, callimers printed and
tamboured, and fuperfine striped Spaniih toili
nets.
Mensbbck fattins, fiorentines, anil fiik prunellas
of superior qualites
■>ilk, fiik and cotton, cotton and wcrfted hose,
aflor e I.
fattins andmantuas, a beautiful varietv.
superfine rattinets, wid* a large collection of belt
trimmings for cloth® «£c. of every quality.
Moreens, joans fpinrnng, durants and caliman
coes.
-laifbines and cambists, See,
wide fuperfine Marl'eilles quilting with bor
ders.
Ma. J cilies beuquilts and cetton counterpanes, 9-4
to 12-4.
Flanders bedbunts and bedfickings.
A. beautiful variety of chintzes and cottons.
An elegant afl.urmem of yard wide furniture
chintzes, in beautiful colours and patterns,
with a large variety ol furniture cottons.
Velveteens, velvets, corauroys, thicksets, fancy
cords, stockinets, royal ribs, fattinets, hair
piufhes, &c. &c.
ar>d t ;ic), twilled and plain Ba s h coating?.
R.ofe blankets affoi tc< : . law f
TO BE SOLD, BY
JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pear-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
Which may befcen everyday, until c o y clock p.m.
Among them are the :
Folio. Homer, Xenophon, Plato, Plutarch,
Eufebius, Sozomen, T'r e idoret, Virgil, Horace,
Livv, Tacitus Paterculus, Pliny, Concordan»
cia Lat. Cmcordantia Gr. Thesaurus Ciceronis,
Biblia Junii & Tremellii, Bible de Martin,
vVelU's MapSj Scapulae—Ph^'vorini—Martinii—
Hoft'manni Lexica, Vofiii Et) mologicon, Anti
quit. Ecclef. Britannicas, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropaedia, Bently's Ho
race, Terence and Pbaedrus, Ovid, Juvenal,
vianilius, Ciceronis op. om . Caesar, Suetonius,
[alius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voflii Ais
Gram. Cluverii Geographia, Justinian Code, &c.
OFtavo ;t infra. Homer, Anacreon, Arifto
hanes, Longinus, 1 heophraftus, Hefiod, Poerae
ini ores Gr. liberates, Phalaris, various editions
t Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus,
Plautus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flac
cus, Aul'onius, Buchanan, Sallufl, Curtius,
I'lorus, Juilin, Val. Maximus, A. Geilius
/ill*. Augult. Scriptorcs, F.nglijh and French
Tranjlations of some of the dallies, a great va
riety ol Greek and Latin Grammars. See. See.
Catalogues may be had of Meflrs. Rice &
Co. Booksellers, Nlarket-ftreet, or of
JOHN CAREY.
Oft. 31.
printed by
C H I L D S and S W A I N E,
AT THEIR OFFICE, NO. Z39, HIGH-STREET,
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA.