Vol. I.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE, j
A Political enquiry into tin bejl means of
improving the Commerce of the
Arncrican States.
[Concluded, frtm our lajl. j
TO whatever quarter we turn our
view, we fliall copftantly find,
that the civilized nations of antiquity
were invariabiv employed in inventing
and perfecting such. arts as were of moL
use to mankind. From a careful inspec
tion into the works or nature, both ani
mals and infeCts have been made to con
tribute to the necessities ot life. Expe
riments made upon the hair of goats,
firft showed the practicability of fabri
cating that ftuff at present known by
the name of Camblet, of which such im
mense quantities are now in common
use ; and the pearl oyftsr has given rife
to almost as extenlive a commerce as the
fabric of fiik.
I am aware of one objection that will
be made to the cultivating of the arts in
their full extent in America. The po
pulation of the dates, it is said, will
loon be so considerable, that it mult
iwallow up all the produce of the home
manufactures, as well as thole of Eng
land-. , . ... •
I allow that the population will in
tittle be immense in the United States.
Such is the extent and happy situation
of this countny, so well is it adapt
ei-to the multiplication of the human
race, both from, the fertility of its foil,
and the nature of its government, that
it is easy to forefee the exigence oi
countlcfs millionfcia that prodigious ex
teut cf territory known t>y thv iraiat oi
the United Sta'tes.
I allow, also, that there will be con
stantly a very brisk demand for every
fnecies of manufacture, that we now fee
carried on in Europe. But, at the fame
time it is evident, that this country
can never fuffer Great-Britain to entei
into a competition with her, in regard
to what is manufactured on this fide tht
water. The enterprize and induflry o
the British nation will, if that is allow
e-i always find means to baffle Amenc
both in her manufactures and commerce
This is a truth that might eahiy b- pro
ved, and a hundred arguments migh
be brought to oppole a contrar
opinion : At present, however, I wil
confine myfelf to the quoting a .ew ai
ouments from an approved author.-
° " The unlimited importation (lays he
of articles from foreign countries, o
the lame kind with those manufacture
in the importing country, is perniciou
to national induitry. Every year a vai
quantity of merchandize is imported in
to France from the Indies, over am
above what the nation consumes. Th
defifnofthis surplus of importation 1
to en l'ure a profit to the nation upoi
re-exporting, and re-felling or In
dia manufactures, which lome othc
commercial nation would not fan ot leiz
inor upon, fliould France dimmish he
imports of this nature merely to th.
quantity wanted within the kingdom.
The fame author observes, in anothe
place—"The commercial treaty con
eluded between England and Portugal
for supplying the latter with woolen
and other Ruffs, does not fail to lmpo
verifli the Portuguese. Unaer colou ;
of th,t tieaty, England has monopoli
zed their trade to such a degree, tha,
their own manufactures, eftabhfhed lr
the kingdom, cannot (land in any fori
of competition with those of Great-Bri
tain. And so immense is the quantity
of British goods consumed in Portugal
that they are not near paid for by a re
turn of the commodities of the country
_so far from that, it is computed tha
they pay a balance yearly to England o.
more than thirty millions,* in gold frorr
Brazil, besides having their national
jnanufa&ures ruined in the baigain.
* £.2.250,000 Penv/ylvania currency.
By PHILIP PRE NEAU
T II U R S D A Y, December I, 1791.
France has experienced fimiiar loffcs.
from her treaty of commerce with Eng
land. The importation of English good:
in a short time ruined several branches
of her manufa&ures ; and it is eviden:
that the few' manufacturing establish
ments at present existing in the Unitci
States will experience a like fate, i
remedies are not Ipeedily provided.
There are still two important conn
derations to be taken into view rtlativ
to improvement in manufa&ures, am
the economy that is necelfaiy to mak
them flourifh.
The firft of these is, the ner.eflity o
appropriating each particular branch o
manufafturc to a number of artists o
different ages, as is the practice at Lon
don, for the fake of favi»g expence ii
hiring of hands. Aconftar.t repetitioi
of the fame work, makes the worknai
more dextrfus and ready than he v/oul
other wife He ; and in many inflance
even children may be beneficially em
oloyed at a small expence. It isfromthi
economy in point of wages to workmen
that the English can alio id to fell tlv
best goods, of different qualities, at ;
cheaoer rate than other nations ; tin
competition of whom, they, by lucl
means, generally destroy.
The other consideration, and whicf
merits the moil particular attentior.
from persons that engage in eftabhili
ments of this nature, is an enquiry inu
tile cost. of workmanship, which oughi
;ver to be in. proportion to the price o
provilions and other necelfaries of lde
From an attention to this general rule
we shall soon perceive that manufac
;ures, in general, can h-rdly be expe£t
to fucccc-i to anv ; !: 1 c
n the neighborhood of the coast, orir.
he several sea-ports of America, where
jrovifions arc dear, and wages, in gc
leral, high. A inanufafturer who efla
jlifhes his works an hundred and twen
y or thirty mil6s in-land, where provi
ions are cheap, will find himfclf inlen
ibly growing rich ; whilst another, whe
ets up his manufacture in a fea-pori
■own, where markets and wages arc
-igh, will in a ihort time experience
;ertain ruin. The reason iseviuentl)
his : the low priccs of food and laooi
"yield so much clear profit, and thus con
.ributeprincipally to make the ettabiiin
merit flourifh.
And hence we may conclude witr
:ertainty, that, to ensure success in en
erprizes of this nature, manufa&orie:
jueht always to be established in thf
nterior parts of the United States, aboul
he heads of navigable rivers, 111 ordei
o facilitate the exportation of their fa
brics. . . .
From all that I have said, it is appa
rent, that the government lies unde:
an urgent necessity to cast a favorabu
»ve upon the growing industry of thi.
country. The possibility of doing some
thing I have fully proved. Surely, then
the general powers of adminiftratior
will not be backward in applying then
most solid support to the fair edifice o
liberty, by encouraging national in
dustry. This is the path to profpen
t y the basis of power —and the mean
to render perpetual the glory of this ex
tensive empire.
Much more might have been laid or
this fubjeft ; and it is the intention o
she author to make some additional rc
marks, when he can do it'with propr.
Etv. If his observations should be tho
ie'ferving of attention, he hopes some
oerfon will take the pains to publift
'hem in the language of the country
in d he will feel peculiar fatisfaOion n
he idea of the probability of his havins
sentiments that may be ot uii
io the public of the United States.
A few Copies of the Report of the Secretary
of State on the JubjeQ oj the Cod and Whal
Fifieries —may be had at the ofce, Ae. 239
High-Jlrcet.
r Tlu fdhzt-iny is trnr.Jlated from a I'rtnc!
Print, Augujl
THE court of Great-Britain seem:
for Fome tune past to have been in fcaicl
jf war as eagerly as the Manchegar
inight was wont to seek adventures
But, does it aid any honor to the cha
-after of the BritiCh name to be perpe
ually seeking to disturb the icpofe o
jtlier- powers ? Is this an age for man
v uld to think of mangling anddeltroyin
;ach other for the fake of imaginary
;launs ; or is it not rather a reproacl
o the enlightened philoiophy of th
rivhteenth century, that a fiflgle ship o
,var iluuis upon tin coforn of the ocean
Was not all their late nnmenfe prepara
ion rather the work of an ambitiou
nmiiter, than the lentiment of the na
,ict. a mimlter, who vainly imagine
hat every court in Europe is bound ti
■bey the mandates issued from his dell
lint, th" day approaches fait whci
IC W r jxes mujt be laid in England. Mr
I'itt ought to meet it with fear and trem
)li .as it is that which mult decid
he. public opinion of his adminiftra
ion ; for it :s by no means a majority 11
he house of commons that will pro
lcuncc the real sentiments of the na
ion. To the honor of the independen
nt rubers of the houle of commons.be 1
kid, that they bv no means.approv
he ministerial fyftsms. No one couh
oi a time fathom the reasons of th
ISgtiftj mimlter taking pait with th
: jns?refs of Brabant in their attempt a
i evolution, at the very time when h
vas railing forces at London and Dub
nto join the Belgic Army.—But i
• ovf appears that by protecting tin
r^fcinti.se revolution, (a revolution ab
tird'in its vCiy tirft principles) the
fter saw a feene of anarchy and confu
ion would result, which mult ultimate!-
lave injured the revolution in trance
i'hc mini Iters of such powers, as wen
eally the fomenters and abettors of th<
nfurrections in Brabant, finding that th<
i ontiers of France were too well guard
<d for the Fleinifh superstition to pene
rate them, pretended to interfere mere
y out of good will, and a humane defi 11
ore-establish order in the Auftriar
L,ow-cour. try dominions. They accord
ngly became mediators between Leo
)old and the Brabanteis *, but can
3 ne imagine that the emperor will hav<
nuch reliance on an interference, found
;d upon principles held forth by the
Britilh Minister ? _
This plan for exciting disorders lr
France having failed, Nootka Souni
ivas the next phantom held up as the oc
-ahon of war ; and the feizureof a con
raband trader was the means of fixt)
ail of the line being equipped. Thi;
plan, however,failed as well as the nrit
\'lr. Pitt then wanted to know whethe;
France woulddillolve her compact witl
Spain, in which cafe, he expected tha
Spain would do the fame by trance, a:
:he revolution of the family compaaha
always been a favorite object with at
Englilh prime minister. The curiofit;
of Mr. Pitt on this matter has colt th.
nation upwards of three millions fter
The eyes of the whole Englilh natioi
are at this moment directed to Mr. Pitt
If he openly attacks the French revolu
tlop he will not be seconded by the ef
forts of the people. An Lnglilhman i.
too proud even of the shadow of liber
ty to aflift in restoring substantial del
potifm. The faa is the nation begin
to fee its true interest, theleaft of whicl
Is, to restore a ministerial defpotn
government in France —but—it is ne
ceflary to reform their own constitution
the firft step towards which will be
that France fliould poflefs a good one.
Mr. Burke has exerted his talents in
favour of the old government, but his
arguments are loft, or attended to only
by those who fubhft upon the abuses oi
le -illation in Britain. In Ihort there is
a total change iu the European fyftero oi
Numb. io.
politics. France has had her share of
war, and wilhes to be no more concern
ed in that difgraceful, diabolical bu i
icfs, the invention of blockheads, who
ind it easier to destroy mankind than
o inttruftthem in the true dignity of
heir Being, and make it apparent to all
hat the God of nature has given enough
'or all, in the world in whxen we are.
placed.
The reprcfentations from the various
jommercial towns in Englan- av e
Deen the true cause of the tardy P roc ®"
iure of the British fleet towards the
Baltic—The whole has,m fact,
jut to be a closet war, and the
gullets which the Empress declared lhe
.vould put in a&ion, if her dominions
were invaded, is perhaps the ultimatum
}f the most weight in the new political
nalance which the English miuilte-.
cems determined to eftablilh.
PHILADELPHIA.
C ONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, November 28.
A bill was read a feeond time for the
elief of David Cook, and committed to
1 committee of the whole fioule to-mor
ovv. —Petitions were then read fiom
>amuel Procter and Samuel Negus, prav
ngcomnenfation for services rendered,
bounds received, Stc-. in the army, dur
ng the war.
A petition of Nicnolas Shultz, pray
ng nin-uSy of lands and other advan
ages promifcel by the late Congress tor
hofc who lliould quit the British fer
ace, in consideration of his having left
hat service, and joined the American
irmy, during the war —Referred to the
Secretary at war.
A petition of Zachariah Dowety,
irayiug payment of an account for wag
;on hire,'on account of the United States
luring the war.—Also a petition of
[ohn Byers praying to be compensated
or his services as a fergeantin the array,
luring the war.—Referred, severally, to
he committee appointe.fi to bring in a
(ill for fettling the claims of persons.
inder particular circumstances, barred
>y previous limitations.
A petition of William Albaugh and
vlargaret Crowell, executors of Henry
3rowell, was read, praying renewal of
oan office certificates, the property of
he testator, destroyed.—Also, a memo
ial of James Sim'pfon, praying re-im
)urfement for sundry services and ex
jences while he was surveyor to the
Jnited States, under a resolution of the
ate Congress—•
Said petition and memorial were re
erred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
A petition of Nathaniel Lucas was
-ead, praying commutation for half pay
is a deranged captain in the late arijiy,
.vhich was ordered to lie on the table.
A petition of Samuel Brcck, and.
jthers, proprietors of the fail cloth ma
nufactory in Boston, praying an exclu
sive privilege of certain marks belongi
ng to their manufa&ory : and that o
hers may be prohibited fiom using
hem, under reasonable penalties. —Re-
ferred to the Secretary of State.
A petition of Joel Phelps, praying
o be placed on the lift of pensioners, in
ronfideration of wounds received ill
:he American service during the war—
Drdered, thereupon, that laid petition,
with the Secretary at War's report to
he la ft session of Congress on the above,
ind other petitions of a similar nature,
ivhofe claims appear to be precluded,
,nly by the reiolves of Congress of
June 11th, 1788, be committed to a
:ommittee of the whole } on the state of
the union.
According to the order of the day,the house in committee of the whole
proceeded to the consideration of th
bill for making conipenfation to \vi
dows, orphans, and invalids, in cer
tain cases-—Mr, Muhlenberg in th
chair.
After some debate on this fubjeft, th
committee i;efe; reported progress, am
asked leave to fit again.
The house then resolved to go agaii
into committee of the whole house 01
the said bill to-morrow.
TiTESbAY, Nov. 29.
A petition of Nicholas Rieb, prayin:
compensation for services, &c. durin:
tlie lale war—and that lie may receivi
the pay due to his son, Peter Rieb,
soldier in the fame corps, taken prison
er by the enemy, and never lince heari
of.
A petition of Jacob Paulus, prayin
to be placed on the lift of penlioners
in coniideration of disability incurrei
in the army : and,
A petition of Thomas Wifhart, pray
ing settlement of his account for service
aS captain in the army, during the war
were referred to the Secretary at Wat
Mr. Livermore, from the committee
reported a bill for the eftablilhment o
the pofb-office and post-roads—Read
fifft and second time, and referred to
committee of the whole house on Mon
day next.
A petition was read from several Cana
dian refugees, praying to be compenfa
ted for fufferings, &c. in the service o
t!?e.United States—Referred to a felei
committee.
According to the order of the dav
the house, in committee of the whole
Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair, proceed
ed to consider the bill for the relief 0
widows, orphans, and invalids, in cer
tain cases.
In debating on this fubjeft, Mi
Fitzfimons expr»fled his doubts of th
propriety of proceeding in the bill be
idre the committee ; and propofedage
neral law to be enacted to fatisfy th
claims of such widows and orphans, a
had not- been provided for by the par
titular states, notwithftandingthe ait o
limitation. He saw no necellity of ex
arnining into every particular cafe in
tended to be provided for by the bill
which lie tßought might be done full a
well by a general law, and therefor
made amotion that the committee Ihoult
rife.
Mr. Hartley thought a general lav
could not provide for every particula
cafe mentioned in the bili—and Mr
Wadfworth conceived, that a genera
law would open too wide a door to ap
plications. He thought it better to fin
ifh with the bill, and make the fevera
individual provisions, than lay the trea
fury department open to endless appli
cations, which would certainly be th<
effect of a general law ; and after all, ii
cafe of the enaftipn of a general law, i
was plain that many special cases in thi
bill would remain wholly unprovidei
for.
Mr. Sedgwick wished justice to bi
done to every individual claimant, bu
thought that house was not the place t(
examine into the minute particulars o
private claims. He exprefled his wifl
that, in the present instance, certaii
principles might be eftablilhed by thi
house, the execution of which fhouk
be left to the treasury officers—Shoulc
this prove ineffectual, the house migh
then, and not till then, undertake thi
examination of private claims.
Mr. Goodhue, thought it would bi
fufficient to declare, that the claims o
widows and orphans should not be as
fefted by the ast of limitation; ant
therefore was in favor of general regu
lations.
Mr. Lawrance and Mr. Hillhoufe
give it as their opinions, that the com
mittee {hould proceed in the bill befon
them.—The leveral claims of the appli
cants had been stated, and their paper:
examined—all that remained, then, wa:
to decide thereupon. The persons thai
had applied for relief, were indigent,
and lay under heavy neceffities—ln re
gard to them, therefore, they wished the
bill should be gone through with, th,at
the persons concerned might know
what they had to expect. As to appli
cation of this kind in future, it might
be prevented by general regulations,
hereafter to be made—if the bill was
pa(Ted into a law, it would establish
precedents equal in their effects to the
operation of a general law, and would
dire£i the public offices in fettling
claims made after palling general regu
lations.
- After some further observations on
this fubjeft, the motion for proceeding
no further in the bill was withdrawn,
and the committee proceeded to the fur
ther consideration thereof.
The report of the Secretary at Wat
on the particular applications was then
read, considered, and decided 011—
when the bill was reported with feverJ
amendments.
A meflage was received from the Se
nate, by Mr. Otis, communicating a
bill palled by that house, entitled, At.
ail concerning Confab and Vice-Cor/uts.
Adjourned.
For the National Gazette.
IN Air. Fenno's paper of the 23d inft
I read a proposal for dividing tht
whole territory of the United States intc
diltrifts of 30,000 inhabitants each, foi
the purpose of a more full reprefentatioi
of the people in Congress.
I will lay nothing of the inconveni
encies and difficulties that muffc atteiK
the execution of such a project in tht
present fluctuating state of populatior
in tms country, which is every day ft
visibly affc&ed both by emigration au<
immigration. I will Yuppole all thef<
objections lurmounted, the member
eletted, leated on the federal floor, anc
juftbreathing after a warm debate, whilt
the clerk of the house of reprefentativft
calls the veas and nays on some impor
tant, national question.—Let us then f««
what effect our amendment will product
in the political balance.
By the repreferttation bill, withoi!
the writer's amendment, the whole
number of representatives will be 112
allowing for South-Carolina 140,00.
iree inhabitants, and 110,000 slaves
which is well known to be pretty neai
the truth, and will give that liate (
membeis. Of those 112, Vermont, N
Hampshire. Maine, Massachusetts, R
Island, and Connecticut, will furnifl
30 ; New-York, New-Jersey, Pennsyl
vania, Delaware and Maryland, 40
and Virginia, Kentucky, N.' Carolina
S. Carolina and Georgia, 42. But b)
the proposed diviiion of the Unitec
States into diftri£ts, the New-Englanc
Hates would furnilh 34 members, the
middle Hates 42 ; and the foutHcn
states 44.
To prove this, we need but look intr
the schedule of the census, in which wi
will find, that New-England (calcu
lating the slaves according to the ratk
prescribed by tlie constitution) contain:
1,007,963 inhabitants ; and will there
fore, after eleftmg 33 members, have ;
surplus of 17,963 inhabitants, who com
ing to vote againfl 12,037 inhabitant
of the state of New-York, will create ;
decided majority, and thus give New
England an additional member,
her number, as already stated, 34. It
calculating the freemen and slaves in th<
other states, after the fame manner, tht
representation will be found as I hav<
apportioned it ; and there will remair
'.n Georgia some thousands of inhabi
Lants n'ho zciU have no vote at all.
Tofhew at one view the increase o
power and conference, which the
New-England states would gain by thi:
rlivilion into diftrifts, and how great ;
diminution the reft of the union'wpulc
luffer. we have only to use a veiv firrt
pic arithmetical process. and reduce tht
different portions of representation tt
fractions with one common denomina
tor. By this it will appear, that, o
840 equal parts, into which we wil
(uppofe the whole power and influenct
of the United States to be divided, tht
portions will be thus differently allottee
by the representation bill, and by tht
amendment above mentioned :
Bill. Amendment
New-England 235 208
Middle States 300 2Q4
Southern States 315 308
- - 840 840
Philadelph. Nov. 29. A.B.
NEW-YORK, Nov. 28.
Friday last being the eighth anniver
fary of the evacuation of thiscity by tht
British troops, was celebrated with un
ulual splendor and rejoicing. The
was ushered in by the firing of cannon'
the regiment of artillery, grenadiers
light-infantry, and light-horse, paraded
and a feu-de-joy was fired.
PHILADELPHIA,
December i.
Extraß of a letter from IJfion, Aug. gi
" In one of the English papers, whit!
I enclose you, you will fee an aexoun
under the London head of English ship:
laden with fifh lately arrived at thi:
port. lam authorised to fay the whol<
is a fiction, not one velfel with new fill
having yet arrived."
By AUTHORITY.
ExtraEl of a Letter from James Maury
Consul of the United States at Liverpool
to the Secretary of State, data
September 14 th, 1 791.
II .ports of Great-Britain are fhu
againfl foreign wheat.
Many of our veflels within mydiftrif
have been under difficulties this year
and although, as yet, they have baen re
leafed (except in three cases not finall;
decidcd on) without any great expence
vet the delay has been extremely inju
rious to, and been very hard on th<
owners. The cauleshave been infor
mality in manifefts, irregularity ir
crews, trading to Guernsey, as before
mentioned, bu| principally excess o
spirits. The Brig Bctfey, Capt. Sake;
of Portsmouth New-Hampshire was re
fufed entry in the Clyde, fix weeks, !oi
the tonnage and where built being 031 i
ted in the naanifcft, and the athda
thereto being made before a justice
the peace inßcad of the Britilh depau,
Consul, although it was afterwards cer
tified by said Deputy Consul.
I submit to you the propriety of mak
ing public these particulars, that firailai
inconveniences may be guarded againfl
in future.
A notice from the Board of Cnjloms to the ColleElo)
ard Comptroller of Liverpool.
Whereas it has been Hated to have
been the pradice for American Ship:
and \ e'.fels to land at Guernsey, cargoe:
of tobacco, the produce of the Umtec
States of America, contrary to the 12th
Charles 2d. chap. 18th.
Wedire&youto make it known tc
all owners and mailers of American vef
iels which may trade to and from you;
pan, tnat two American velfels have
been on that account lately seized there
and that the laid ast which not only pro
dibits the before-mentioned article, bu
•ill other Ipecies of goods the produce o:
America from being imported into th<
alorelaid Island, orthe Illand of
:n foreign ships, will be ftritlly enforc
sd in future.
APPOINTMENT.
The President of the United States has,
ind with the advicc and consent of the Senate
ip pointed RICHARD HARRISON, Efq
[formerly the American Consul at Cadiz) Audi
tor of the Trcafury of the United States.
I.aft Monday, we are informed, the eleftior
01 Directors to the Inlhtution for promoting
American manufaclures was made at Trenton—
[even fiom New-York, and fix of New-jcrley
Ihc situation for this eftabhlhment w s not ye
W upon; but it is conjea U red, the falls o
P.ilfjick Will be th-; spot, as there is, probably
10place on the continent more happily fituaie t
°T r n a 'r7 a " CVer Min S of water
- d . f<lll 0 )' or seventy leet— no apprtben
10ns from frelhes, and within two or thre<
ni.es 01 navigable water Indeed boats, were ;
man lum expended in clearing out the river
, '" d . an , d "nload at the mill, and faftones
f-:'? ' h,i the b " ut y, population, and healthi
1 u th( ' c ° u , ntr y i w hich atjeonfpiie to rende
■his the most eligible iituation in Jersey.
Accounts from Coopsrs town in Otfe»<
-ounty, State of New-York, report the pS
manufa< tory inl tnofe parts t0 be ,n a flounfliins
.ondition. The pearl ash made in the count
uft mentioned, IS a!f= rt ed, t 0 be a more benefi'
1 r ™ ,,,ancc ' t°'he planter, than wheat, asth.
kmand ls great the p, lce high, and the athe
jrocurpd at a cheap rate, from the burring o
imber for the purpose of clearing land;. Th<
climat- is laid to be peculiarly favorable to th.
propagation of fl lcc p, and the wolves, th,
yea. numbers of winch were heretofore a d.f
;^f" CU ' n u Tr'° ,he plantt ' r - are almot
-xtirpau d from thele settlements. Fullii t n „H
ire erected, and home made linen has already be
f f 2,1 ait: s le , ot nn mconfiderable sale am oik
.1 airn.is, (o that it is cxpefted, in two'or threi
• ears none need be brought f, om abroad. Ma
.l" o woolen and hempare also in con
at Cooper's town, which has made;
ap.d progress towards becoming a very confid
-■able manufaftunng and tradmg place. Al
hefe improvements, we may f.y, this new ere
Vort ar h rr"" par ' S ° f the S,a,e of Ncw
a but of four years (landing. Vast cuan
"lies of excellent maple fu S ar are' annually pro
"-CCu .loin t.icfc parts, which, in time, and wit!
* ' • ' ' - \ L
proper attention so the preservation of tile tree.",
may fuperfedethe importation of this necefiary
article from the islands, where it is extorted fron,
the hand of misery arid the unfeeling lash of
avarice and tyranny.
These more remote parts of the date of New-
York have gained much by the American revo
lution, in favor of the people. Formerly this
vast extent of territory was parcelled, out into
manors, lordlhips, and patroon-ibips, [he property
of the well-born, who were making rapid ft riles
towards enslaving an honed and laborious peaian
tiv, in the fame manner as in Germany and some
other countties of Europe. This was ihe cause
u! lo valuable a territory being retaiped so long
in a date of nature; few people, before the revo
lution, having been willing to hold lands under
a Iptcies of tenure, little Ihortof the feudal, and,
therefore, lettled 111 Pctinlylvania and other pro
vinces, where lands could be purchased at an
easy rate, and poflefled in fee.
Upon looking through European hifiory for
a century or two pal), it is really aflomlhin-J to
observe how mankind have fuffered theinfefves
to be led quietly in ccclefiaflical trammels, with
out once conceiving therafelves at liberty to
think agreeably to ihe powers of reason vithin
them. Owing to these flavifli fvdems, the vi
gor of the human mind has been loft, and the
noblefl flights of genius into the regions of science
and wisdom, prevented. Ho w often must everv
readet of biUbry have regretted to fee in some of
the firft w.iters of Europe, a forced fubmiffiori
to the national creed, which checked them in
ihe happiefl attempts of extending found judg
ment and undtrflanding, and probably induced
them to conceal what might have, done' ji6rtor to
ihe caule of truth and humanity. Boileau was
perhaps, one of the rr.ofl elegant writers, un
doubtedly the correflefl critic of the French na
tion; but it is humiliating to observe what pains
he was at to faiisfy ihe clergy, rel'pe&ing one of
bis pieces, and by way of apologizing for some
itttle matters he had advanced, in Ipirit rather
Iree, and of a gayer turn, naming this, and the
ather archbishop, or biTnop, why, on pcruGng
ins manufcupts, had found no fault, nor seen in
them any dogma, contrary to the eflaMifhed re
gion.—Every man, of but very limited reading,
mui) aave diTeemed the iamc circumltances, in
ilmoii numberless mGaoces.
t ExtjaEl of a letter from Lcndon, S.pt. 16.
" The rumours of negro inl'urreflion in foiue.
at the French colonies, have given no small de
cree ofuneafinefs to the National AlTembly; and
the nation ltlelf does not fail to reproach theßri
liih Parliament for having listened to such en
tbufiafls as Clarkfon, and his brethren, who are
ilicklers for Negro emancipation.—Their writers
even go lo far as to liyle Mr. Clarkfon " A Fire
aPi turned loose upon the colonial Negroes for
thc.r flcQruttioa." -Sir William Young; very
:f™rT mly 0 in his speech in Parliament,
, m y '. s '"''cited for an abolition of
he Arncan trade, as far as relates to Great-Bri
tain only, ] would wish at lead to be previously
.onvinced, that while Bntain loies, Africa will
■ Because, as he afterwards as jurtly ob
" reat *®'' ta ' n may abandon her share
jt lllis trade, but cannot abolith it."— In fact
.he general quediori of abolition of the trade for
laves is not before England. Our parliament
s not an alTembly of Delegates fiom France
rom Spain, from Holland, and other powers
low engaged in that base commerce ; it is the
nere of a single nation, whose dere
i6lion of the trade, on their part, cannot any
vavs suppress, but will eventually aggravate the
niieries incident to a fyllem of traffic which eve
y enlightened man mull acknowledge, aad eve
y good man n.uft deplore."
Extra 3 of a Utter from Ifyiris, Sept. .18.
■ , chief Secretary of the order of St. Frgn
< J published an estimate of the number
>f Monks, that went to conflitute tli.s particular
iroer previous to the revolution ; and has fixed
t to three hundred thousand, in Europe. Belides
hele, thei e were four hundred thousand Mendi-
Monks, exclusive of thofewith gifted habits.
Each oftbele drones of society were maintained,
iy the lowed efiimation, at the rate of three
lundied livres a year ; so that according to this
dfimate, which is certainly modeiate, the pub
'r u' uro P an annual tax for the support
if the Mendicanis only, of about one hundred
md twenty millions. A tenth part of these
Vlonkshad fallen to the share of France, and
.onfequently a tenth pait of this enormous ard
uperfluous expence : But, such were the aids
leceffary for the support of deipctifm, —as Mil
on said,
' While, Llack, and grey, with all their trvmpery.''
I he people in this capital regard the abolition
k the Monkish orders as one of the great blef
lngs of the revolution. To keep them from
jaiving, however, they have hitherto received a
ort of indirect maintenance from the sale of the
-ffefts of the high ciergy. Things are now put
jpon such a footing, that, it is computed, in fif
een years France will be entirely rid of these
•ennin ; and one may foretell with, ut a fuper
ratural gift of prophecy, that within thefame pe
iod there will not be 3 country in Europe but
lhall have followed the example of France in
this particular.
Translated ExtraS of a letter from Havre,
[France] Sept. 16.
It is easy to fee that altho' the monarchical
?! of government is likely to be retained in
this country, it will only be the lion without
claws. The burning glass of power will be drawn<o ,ucti a focus, in the person of the head of die
nation, as to warm and comfort, but net to con
sume us, as has heretofore been the cafe.—ln
short, government be what it may the
manners of the people of France are becoming
truly republican. This spirit is even carried to
a length unknown in your country. Several
perlcns in thistownand vicinity who were for
merly cbriftened with three or four names, such
as Jcsn Vaiiaqwcre de Bsnviwnt, &c. & c .
nave made a voluntary lurrendei to the P,lefts
of ali but the firfi and last name, as a facrince to
liDeity and the downfall ofariftocratie pompofuv.
Monks irid Fuars aie wandering about in a
bandance, and have no visible means of livin°
at bv turning teachers and pre
ceptois. The state seems to have served them a
tuck fome-what fim.lar to ih.it of the fox with
mi fleas. He takes a wisp of fliaw in his mouth,
and gradually fettles himfclf to the tip of hisnofe
m a pond of water. The vermin, to lave tliem
leives, huiry fiom all quarters to the straw, when
Reynard leaves thein afloat to provide for their
own iafety.*'
r * •— — .
, Some attempts have been made to propel boats
uy forco of fceam. The power of fleam is
certainly prodigious, and there can be but little
doubt of its anivvcring this desirable objedt, if pro
perly appl-cd. Hitherto the machinery made use
ct has u-'.n complex, occafiouing much fricftion
and wanting frequent repairs : Bcfules, the force
has been applied to give motion to paddies; where
by powei has -always"been Intheiirft
experiments, the force was applied to turning an
axis which carricd a number of paddles as radii.
a. t.izs mode of proceeding, power was loft : For
when the paddle began to a6t on the water, it a«st
ed obliquely; tending but in a small degree tn
propel the boat, but chiefly, only to lighten it. In
tins manner ol operating, the paddle, in the pro
gress of its motion, produced more and more ol
its desired effed, until it acquired a perpendicular
position, at which point only for an inflant, all
irs ,orce a&ed in propelling ; after which, while
emerging, its propelling power decreased, and it.'
action tended more and more to fink the boat
deeper. I o avoid this misapplication of power
a more complex and unweildv machine was con
llrucled, in which the paddles dipped into the wa
ter perpendicularly; when operating, adled alto
gether in propelling, and emerged also in a per
pendicular position. This contrivance had its in
convenience. While the paddle was immergiiij
and emerging, it opposed a considerable fur face t(
the ail ion of the water, and checked the progref
of the boat.
Dr. Franklin, in the year 1785, planned a Cm
pie method of applying fleam to give motion tc
boats. He propolcd, that the fleam ihould ac
immediately upon a piston, which should move ii
a cylinder, perpendicularly fixed in the centre o
the boat. The bottom of this cylinder, conneilec
with a horizontal .cylinder fixed from bow t(
stern, and there communicating with the surround
ing ■water. Two valves in the horizontal cylin
der, on each fide of the perpendicular one, cacf
opening towards the flern. ' When in this fimpl<
machine the piston rose by the force of steam, tin
bow valve would open and the water rush in with
considerable force, fill it, and alio the perpendicu
lar cylinder. The pition would then descend, the
bow valve shut, that nearefl the stern open, and
the body of water rulh through the after part ol
the horizontal cylinder and out, with considera
ble violence, againfl the surrounding fluid, and
consequently propel the boat.
He conceived also, that when the piston as
cended, the boat would acquire a small quantity ol
motion, by water being fucked in at the bow,
These cylinders he proposed should be of a consi
derable diameter, the exa<ft size to be fixed by
experiment ; and fuggefled the propriety of doub
ling the apparatus, the pistons to work alternately.
The simplicity of this contrivance, and the little
friction which it would occasion, are considerable
recommendations t:f it; but a striking objetSlion
to this is a waste of power. The whole force ol
the water rushing out of the stern, would not tend
to propel the boat, as the surrounding fluid would
not oppose an absolute refiflancc to the column of
water ailing on it.
The following is proposed as free from the ob
jections to tiie above contrivances.
Let the steam ast in turning an axis bearing a
number of thin metal vanes, fixed like the vanes
of a windmill in the proper angle, and let these
vanes ail under water at the bow or stern of the
boat, as m.dt convenient. 1 y the rotatory mo
tion of the axis, the vanes would all continually
screw themselves into the water and give motion
to the boat. All the power would here propel the
boat, and the continual a&ion of the vanes give
the advantage of accelerated motion, it might
perhaps be found more convenient to apply the
iorce to two setts of vanes, fixed one on each fide
of the boat: this might, without much complexity,
be done.
An acftual experiment gave rife to this idea.
At the time balloons were in vogue in France,
and all heads were at work in devising means to
give them motion ad libitum, an ingenious mecha
nic, to the bow of a common boat, adapted four
vanes like those of a windmill, but smaller, and
gave motion to them by means of a simple crank.
The boat thus equipped, by the action of the vanes
on the air crofted the Seine in less time than ano
ther crofted the fame river by the means of a
pair of common oars, and returned from the eppo
iite shore to the place from which she started, not
withstanding the force of the current.
By extra(ss of a letter from Aux-Cays, to a
merchant in this city, we learn, that there is'al
mofl a total stagnation of business; that flour was
felling at five dollars, and moil other things in pro
portion. That in consequence of the continuati
on of the disturbances and the loss of revenue by
the deftruilion of so many sugar Plantations, the
duty on sugar was doubled. The writer in order
,to give a fthkinß ,deu <« the diiagi eejblenels of hi
utuarioii, mentions, that he would be willinH t c
put up with any thing, Howevfr difajp-esabk tc
c once fate returned from amongst them. At
forts of produce are very fcarcc and dear.
EUROPEAN INT ELLIG F.NCt
Received by the way oj New-York.
P A R I S, September 15.
i HE ceremony ot the King's acceptation o'
he conftjtution did not produce here all the cf
ect which the courtexpeacd from it. The can
ions ot the dißorent fettions in the place oi
~ouis XV . and Henry IV. it istiue, were fired :
he chimes ot I.a Samartaine were rung, and a!!
he houlrs were illuminated; and all this infuf
icient to trauquilize us entirely. The peopl
ippeared much better fatisfied with the letter ol
he King than they arc with his oath.
There is fcarce'.y room, however, to doubt
hat this event will Toon unite all parties, and en
'rely overthrow the different schemes whid
iave been formed by the enemies of the public
The Queen, the Prince Royal, Madame, the
:ldeft daughter of the King, and Madame Eliza
3eth, were prelent when the king took the oath
hey were seated in a box behind the President.
Sept. 18. Yelferday, for the fiift time lincc
:he journey to Vaiennes, vhe King took ai
liring on horfebaefc. Upon his MajeQy's arri
/al at the draw-bfidge, a va!t concourse of peo
3'e, who had been drawn together by the repoi
)f bis delign to take an airing, and a desire to fei
™, hailed him wiih repeate*aodfincere {bout.
Df Vive Le Re. ! an aftedingjoy was viGhle in hi
:cuntenancc at theft marksof love and attach
ment,
A deputation from the community of Pari
epairedto the Thuilleries. The Mayor win
.vanat its head, addrefTed the following fpecche
o the King and Oueen ;
" SIRE,
" The community presents to your Majeflv
he homage and refpeft of the city of Paris. 1
ays before you the joy and the benedifctievns o
he people. Two veais of labor, of evils, an<
jfftorms are happily terminated by the comple
ion of the conllitution, and by your Majelly'
icceptation of it. Henceforth retling upon th•:
ronftitution, Sire, and governed by immutable
aws, you will promote the public prosperity
When every heart is devoted to you—wber
'oui's is devoted to the -French —who will un
lertake to dillurb that intimate agreement of the
lationand its King ? the moment which attache:
/ou a new to France, and it to you, will secure
.he tranquility of the city of Paris, which has beer
o long agitated. Peace, the goodness, the juflice.
ind the virtues of your Majelly, are our true
riends. You will fix them among us, Sire ;
ind you will be happy in the love of the French,
is the French will be in your welfare.
ANSWER of the KING.
" Tne welfare of the nation will ever be thf
wiih moll dear to my heart. It's true welfare
:a.n only be attained by maintaining public ordei
ind tranquility. You are to avail yourfelfo!
ill the means with which the law invefls you, tc
:oncurwiih me in attaining that end."
MAD A M,
" The community presents 10 vour'Majeflj
he refpe&s of the city ef Paris, in the most me
notable epoch—the joy has been univerlal. Tlx
King has received the benedictions of the peo
>le—you have participated them, I'ndthe cityo
Paris joins ihe expre flion of its IVimments to the
voice of the nation. May these femiments prove
pleating to your Majefly ! —Deign frequency tc
recall them, to the King—
Say, Madame, to the August Prince, broughi
jp for France near your person, that these fenti
inents are Oeltmed for him, and that we will one
lay repay him all the welfare which his tender
rels and his cares shall have thedupon theKingj
ind upon your Myetly."
The Queen antwered, " that {he coincided in
:verv thing with the sentiments of the King;
ind entieated the municipality to allure the citi
:cns of the capital, that the would daily inspire
ler son with them, and that lhe would con
ribute, to the uimott of her power, to the wel
are of the nation."
In the evening, by order of the King, the
rhuilterics and the Champs Elyffes will be ll
uminated.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, Sept. 14,
M. d'Andre reminded the Aflembly, that no
übjeft ought to be taken into consideration when
he King thould be present; and moved that
he President should be invefled wiih all necef
ary authority to prevent any member from ma-
Ling motions in the presence of the King. De
reed.
M. le Chapelier. " I beg the AfTembly to
;rant me a moment's atten:ion, while I give an
ccount of the deputation fer.t yetterday to the
ting.
" We fulfilled your million of prefentingto
lis Majefly the decree you had pat Ted. In pre
enting this dccrce, we cxprctTed to the King the
ileafure which his melfage had excited in the
\lfembly. We said to him,
" Sire, the National Alfembly, on hearing
our Maje'lv's melfage read, often interrupted
he readingby applauses, expreflive of the affec
lon of the French for their King. It experi
:nced the most plealing fen:iments, onobferving
our Majefly express your with for a general
imnelly, which might put a termination to all
difcGid „nd di!l:r.tion. It hastened to pal's a de-
cree, fixi»« ti,c pciiod of the revolution."
" The Kin.-J, fpt'akiiig with an air of I'atisfac
tion, anlwc; cd us as follows :
" I fliail niways consider it as a pleafuie and
1 duty to follow the wifii of the nation, whene
ver it is known. I observe with gratitude, that
National Aftembly has acceded to my wifb.
i hope the decree you piefent me will put an end
>o diicord, that it will unite all parties, and that
.ve (hall be but one. lam informed that the
National Aflembly this morning paffcd a decree
dative to the Cordon Lieu; lam determined to
lay aside that decoration, ancj beg you to commu
nicate my resolution to the Affcmbly."
Queen and the Roval children were zt
he entrance oi the Council chamber, where the
was received. The King said to as,
\ I here is my consort and my children, who par
icipate mv Icntnnents.' Ihe Oncenthen tct.c
or ward and said,
My children and I hasten to express but
)articipation of the sentiments of the King."
i he hall founded with applauses at the close o!
U. le Chapelier's account. The Aficmbly was
lien occupied for some time in bufmefs of little
noment, after which the order of the day re
umed.
Ihe President—" The K.ing is on his wiy tc
he Allembly. I need not remind you of the de
: <>e vs htch prohibits the making of motions while
ie is present. At the time the King {hall tak<
he oath, the Aflfembly ought to be featcd."
M. Malouet—" There is not a {ingle cafe ir
vhiji the nation, affemblcd, has not acknow
edged tHc King for its head. I move, 11 Tha
n token of refpeft to his function, the Aflembh
ha»l continue Handing all Ihe time he is pre
em."
M. d' Andre— ic What has heretofore beet
uracili cd at the opening of the states-genera!
i'nould be observed in this mftance : on tin
sing's entering the hall, the members rose—up
jn the king's speaking, the deputies lat down
rovered."
An officer now announced
The King's Arrival,
Who immediately entered the hall, accorrtpaniec
syail his ininifters, without any other oecoratior
nan the cross oi Sr. Louis. The affembfy ftoo<
«p Ihe king fcated himtelf beside the President
:nd addressed the aflembly in che following word
~ come solemnly to conlecratc my accept?
ion of the conftitufional code. In confequenc*
)f which, Ijtvear - - - - (the members now fa
iovvn) to the nation, and to the la>w y - -to empltr
ill the power with lohhb / am entrafted in main
aining the conjiitution decreed by the national ojfcm
and to cauje the laivs to be executed."
ihe king fat down, and the hall refoundei
vith applauses, after which he proceeded :
May this great and memorable eooch be that
the re eftablifhmenrt of peace and union, and
•ecome the batisof the welfare of the people, anc
<f the' prosperity of the Empire !"
The hall refoonded for fsveral ntirfutes wit!
ippfaofes, and shouts of Vive le Roi !
The President, on his leys—Abuses of lon]
ianding, which had triumphed over the good in
entions of the best of kings, and had unceafmgli
)ravcd the authority of the throne of oppreflei
: ance. [The king remained fitting, and th
president lat doWn.J Depositary of the withes, o
he rights, and on tlie p'owet of the people, tin
national assembly has eftabli/hed, by the deftfuc
iron ot all abuses, the foiid basis of public prof
>erify< Sire, what this afl'embly has decreeJ, th<
national concurrence has ratified. The most com
>lete execution of its decrees in all parts of th<
mpire, attests the general sentiments. It de
anges the weak plans of ihofe whom difconten
t °° lo "g kept blind to their own interefls* 1
no miles to your majesty, that your wishes so
the welfare of the French will no long er be i
/ ain.
The national aflembly has nothing more ti
decree on this ever memorable day, in which yoi
omplete, in its bosom, by the most solemn en
gagement, the acceptation of eonftitutional royalty
it is the attachment of the French—it is thei
:onfidence, who confer upon vou that pure an<
efpeCtable title to the most durable crown in th
iniverfe j and what secures it to you, Sire, is thi
mperi/hable authority of a constitution freely de
reed. It is the in incible force of a people wh<
' el themielves worthy of 1 iberty—iteftablifties th<
lecefiity which so great a nation will always hav«
an hereditary monarchy.
Vv hen your majesty, waiting frofti experiehci
he lights which are about to be spread by thi
>ra£tical result of the confr.tution, promises t<
r.iintain it within, and to defend it from attack
rom without, the nation, truKing both to thejuf
ice of rights, and to the consciousness of its forc<
ind courage, and to the loyalty of your co-opera
ion, can entertain no apprehenlion of alarms froir
l, 'hout, and is about to contiibute, by its tran
iuii confidence, to the speedy fuccels of its inter
'3l government.
What ought to be great in your eyes, Sire,
leartoour hearts, and what will appear with lul.
ic in our history, is the epoch of this enumeia
ion which gives to France, citizens ; to the French,
i country j to you, as king, a new title of grandeui
nd gfory—and to you again, as a man, a new
ource of enjoyment, and new sensations of hap
'inefs,"
Loud plaudits followed.
The king quitted the aflembly in the midst o
houts of Vive le Roi—The in a bodv
jccompanied him to the palace of the Thuilleries
n the midst of acclamations and shouts of joi
rom the people, military music, and repeacei
iifcharges of artillery
LONDON, September 21.
The captuie of Darwar took, place about th
latter end of March. The Mahratta troops dif
pi ayed much gallantry, and were chiefly inftru
ments in fhortcning the duration of the siege.
The fort re fs of Darwar is in the My tore coun
try, on the Bomoay fide j and will by theconveni"
:ncies attached to It, greatly accelerate the to:*4
übjugution of i ippoo and his firing followers.
In tha courle of a fortnight dispatches of a very
m port an: nature may be expected from India,
nairuuch as they will announce either the capture
f or that Lord CorriwiiJJis has
>een pretexted from approaching it by the iet
,JJ 3 ,n °« the rains a"n3 the fuelling of theCavery.
ihoulu theJarter be the cafe, the Concjueft of tha
Ayi-jrz vvj:J cud the company another 'ii.
'£*** which muli accrue to th«
ndian corn party by the Capture of Seringapafarn
anot be otherwise -than imnae&fe ; for, indepenJ •
nc of the revenues of the tyrant, and the quan
ity of (pecie ia that capital, its bein a the great
nipoilumfoi the Trade of the Carnatic wiJl xeniier
t of in s ftimable value.
Thfc Spanish edicts refpefting foreigners have
mdergone repeated modifications—and are no-.*
educed to 2 l-mple oath of fubmififon to the
Ong j and tl* laws during the residence of the
>eifon taking it in Spain.
These modifications will, no doubt, be a fufEci.
Nt protealon in all the great town., but it is t»
><; feared, that 'ri all places where the correlpond
nce with the fedt of government islefs freq-eo:,
oreigners; efpetially p'roteltants, will te exposed
ogreat oppreiilon in consequence of the edidts,
icfore the modification s can be known.
Extract of a letter from the Hague, Sept 29.
" There are no fewer than three loans go.
ng forward- in this country at prcfent; one to
<ufna, at 5 percent, for twelve years 5 one for
-iir.-rjca.at 5 per cent, ror ten years ; and one for
Sweden, at 5 percent, the priccs of all which keep
xry high. A loari is also attempting for the
--rnperor, at a per cent, but the low interest makes
t imagined that it will notfucceed^
" The high price of the Englilh funds has in
luced many Dutth Stockholder* to fell their pro
perty and invert their money in the funds of thia
:ountry, where they get 5 per cent, interest and
iuy in under par ; the profit of this ou
inefs is the greater from the preleuthigh courfc
if exchange in favor of England.
September 22;
The BOUILLIEB.
The king of Sweden ii not contented with tj«
ting the Jsouillies; father and son, into his fer.
ice, but has. caused his acceptance of them to
: thus noticed in the Stockholm Gazette :
" In confluence of the diftinguilhed quaii
.es and military (kill, which the marquis de Bou
lle, formerly general of the army in the service
I France, has long j and but of re
peit to the attachment which he has lately fliewn
o the king and queen of Fiance and to their fa
r.ily, his majesty has tiken the marquis into his
ervice, and has granted him the rank of ljeuten
nr-jrneral, with priority, according to the date
if Ins brevet as a French general. His son count
jouis Joleph de Bouille, former'y lieutenant-co
onel of the Fiench Cavalry, is appointed aide
le-carnp to the king, and|appointment. *'cr both
lave been assigned in the extraordinary lift."
Thus intemperately and uninvited does the
ting of Sweden display hit enmity to the new con
litution of France,
To mark the ingratitude of such conduij, it is
icceflary to (late, that, during "the time when
he crown of France oifourfed the earnings of the
leople, this monarch leceived from them the an
lual salary of 2ffio,oool. To shew its indecency, it
s enough to llate, that he never has been invited,
>r authorised by any complaint from the French
ting, to utter an opinion concerning his (Ttuation.
There is in this a fort of peremptory violence
vhich is seldom confident with jultice, a degree of
letulant resentment which is beneath a great man
pon any occasion. He adopts a Genei al, whom
he existing government of another country de
lated a traitor; and he (hews difrefpefl to a peo
ple, whom he dares not attack, knowing very weH
hat they are attending too seriously to their Own
lappinefs to think of attacking him.
Sept. z6. Hostilities between the Moors and
ipaniards have already begun by an attack made
ly the former on Ceuta, which have turned out
uccefsfully for the Spaniih arms.
The Moors cannonaded the place, and damaged
ome of the works ; but the besieged made ifartii
nd spiked up the cannon of the enemv.
Two frigates ana 14 bomb ketches arrived on
he 23d of August in the Bay of Tangiers, and
jombarded that port from five o'clock in the
norning rill three o'clock in the afternoon. The
vind then changed, and obliged the Spaniards to
etire under Cape Spartel till the firil favorable
hanger
The Moofiih ambaflador has left the Spanifli
ourt j but being accused by his sovereign of par.
lalitv for that nation, and afraid of going home
e still continues in Spain, the government ha
ing given orders for a small daily pension to be
ain rn him for his fubfilfence.
fK i C E~or S~T O C Kb.
Funded Debt 4
Six per cents, - - - - . 21/9,
Three per cents, ... 12/5.
Deferred fix per cents, - 1 3/. to J3/.
Unfunded Debt.
Final fettlcments, - 19/6. to icf.
Indents, - - - _ t ,j 6m
Bank fciipts, - - i 4 q to 143 dollars
JUS fIUBIISHfD,
and for sale by
THOMAS LANG,
No. 21, Church alley j
■An ElTay on
COMMERCE and LUXURY.
le-printed from the London edition—Price 1/6.
The merit of this work will be acknowl
edged by every judicious reader. The re-publi
ation of it in this country, at this time, has been
dvifed by several enlightened patriots. These
vilh to promote our national commerce, on the bi
ts ot agriculture and induliry, and free from the
>afe alloy of itnpofition and gaming. They set a
>ropcr value on the conveniences and ornaments
)f civilised lite ; but detest that luxury which is
:he offspring of a fiivolous taste, and the mother
>f profligacy, diflionefty, poverty, of number
iefs private aid public vices and mitfoitune».
Vov - lS - fit.e.t.For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
The BANISHED MAN.
[The felloiuingis founded upon some ideas of Lord
Bjlingbroke"i y 'written a little before bis sentence
of exile into France.—See his Works. J
SINCE Man may every rfegion claim,
And Nature is, in all, the lame,
And we a part of her wide plan,
Tell me, what makes the Banifti'd Man ?
The favorite spot, that gave us birth,
We fondly call our Mother Earth j
And hence our vain diftin&ions grow,
And man, to man becomes a foe.
That friend/hip to all nations due,
And taught by reason to pursue,
That Jove, which (hould the world combine*
To country, why do we confine ?
The Grecian Sage (old (lories fay)
When queltion'd where his country lay,
Ihfpir'd by heaven, made no reply,
But rais'd his finger to the Iky.
No region has on earth been known
But some, of choice, have made their own—
Your tears are not from reason's source,
If choice can take the path of force.
il Alas ! (you cry) that is not all ! .
44 My former friendships I recall,
€t My honfe, my farm, my days, my nights,
" Scenes vanifh'd now—and past delights."
Distance for absence you miftake —
Here days and nights their circuits make j
Kere nature wa'k3 her beauteous round,
And friendlhip may, perhaps, be founi.
)f times grow dark, or wealth retires,
Let reason check your fond desires—
Miftrs had never gold to spare,
And loss of wealth is lof* of care.
Thus, half unwilling, half refign'd,
Desponding why the generous mind ?—
Think right—nor be the hour delay'd
That flies the fur. to seek the piade.
Tho* injur*d, exil'd, or alone,
Nobly presume the world your own,
Convinc'd that, since the world began,
Death only makes the* Banijhd Man.
ORIGINAL ANECDOTE.
A gentlemen, desirous of exhibiting ftrikinj
proofs of his exuberant imagination and pompou
language, was paying a very lenfible and amiabli
young lady some very far fetch'd compliments
comparing her to the fun in its meridian glory
and himfelf to a dim taper, glimmering faintly be
fide it j forgetting in the mean while, to show com
mon pclitenefs to the lady, by whose fide he fat
%'jiib bis bat cn. Another gentlemen went up ti
him, and while he lifted off his hat, said, " Sir
J willfnuff the candle, that it may burn brighter
EPIGRAM.
WlTHcover'd head, by lovely Anna's fide,
Who pities folly, and who laughs at pride
Pcmpcfo fate, and thought to please the lair
By panegyrics of majestic air,
High founding words, replete with eastern fire
Which fops adopt, and none but fools admire.—
Says he, " Mil's Anna, like Sol's splendid ligh
Your radiant beams dispel the shades of night,
Whilfl I, eclips'd by your refulgent rays,
Like a dim taper, fink within the blaze !"
FLORio,who heard this Oriental chat,
Said, as he lifted off Pompofo's hat,
" Your cafe is hard} to make it some what lighte
I'll fnuft*the candle, that it may burn brighter.
Philadelphia, Nov. 30, 1791*
LONDON.
If it is asked—What is the French Revolutioi
to us?—We answer, It is much.—Much to us a
•men •. Much to us as E-nglilhmen.
As men, we rejoice in the freedom of twenty
five millions of our fcliow men. We rejoice ii
the profpe#, which such a magnificent exampl
opens to the world. We congratulate the Frencl
nation for having laid the axe to the root of ty
ranny, and for eredting government on the facrec
hereditary rights of man.—Rights, whicl
appertain to all, and not to any one more thar
to another. We know of no human authority
superior to that of a whole nation : and we pro
. fefs and proclaim it as our principle, that ever)
nation bas, at all times, an inherent, indefeafibl.
right to constitute and eftabli/h such governmen
for itfelf as best accords with iti uifpofition, in
tereft and happiness.
As we alforejoice, because we ar<
immediately interfiled in the French revolution.
Wi'thout inquiring into the justice, on eithei
fide, of the reproachful charges of intrigue anc
ambition, which the Engliih and French court:
have conftaatly made on each other, we confinc
ourselves to this observation :—That if the couri
,of France only was in fault, and the numerous
wars which have diftreifed both countries are
chargeable to her alone, that court now exists nc
longer j and the cause and the consequence mufl
cease together. The French, therefore, by the
revolution they have made, have conqaered for us
as wellas for themselves } if it be true, that their
court only was in fauJt, and ours never.
On this state of the cafe, the J'rench revolution
concerns us immediately. We are oppressed with
a heavy national debt, a burthen of taxes, and an
expensive administration of Government; beyond
those of any people in the world. We have alfc
a very numerous poor : and we hold, that the
moral obligation of providing for age, helpless in
fancy and poverty, is far superior to that of sup
plying the invented wants of courtly extravagance,
ambition and intrigue.
We believe there is no instance to be produced,
but in England, of seven millions of inhabitants,
which make but little more than one million of
families, paying yearly seventeen millions of taxes.
As it has always been held out by all adminif
tratio/Hj that the restless aiubitiwa of the court of
France rendered this expcnce neccfury to us fat
jur own defence ; we consequently rejoice as mei;
ieeply interefled in the French revolution : foi
;hat court, as we have already (aid, exiits no long
;r ; and consequently the fame enormous exper.ee:
need not continue to us.
Thus rejoicing, as wefinccrely do, both as mei
and Englishmen, as lovers of universal peace ant
freedom, and as friends to our own national prof
ueritv and a redu&ion of our public expences : \v<
:annot but exprels our astonishment, that an;
>art, or any members of our own government
Should reprobate the extinction of that very paw
ir ill France, or wifii to fee it restored, tp whof
nfluence they formerly attributed (whilffc they ap
jeared to lament) the inormous increase of ou
>wn burthens and taxes. What then, are the
"orry that the pretences for new opprellive caxes
»nd the occasion for continuing many old taxes
vill be at an end ?—lf foj and if it is the polic
>f courts and court-government to prefer enemie
o friends, and a system of war to that of peace
is affording more pretences for places', offices
jenfions, revenue and taxation, it is high time so
he people of every nation to look with circum
pe&ion to their own interelts.
Those who pay the expences, and, not those win
Participate in the emoluments arifmg from it, ar
he persons immediately irtterelted in enquiries o
his kind. We are a part of that national body
>n whom this annual expence of seventeen mil
ions falls j and we Consider the present opportu
lity of the French revolution, as a molt happy on.
or lessening the enormous load, under which thi
lation groans. If this be not done, we iliall tnei
lave reason to conclude, that the ery of intrigci
md ambition against ether courts, is na more thai
he common cant of ail couits.
We think it also neceiTary to express our afto
lifhment, that a government desirous of bein;
ailed free, should prefer connexions with themoi
lefpotic and arbitrary powers in Europe. W
enow of none more deserving this description, thai
hose of Turkey and Prtjfiia, and the whole com
>in3tion of German despots.— Separated as w
lappily are by nature from the tumults of the con
inent, we reprobate all systems and intrigue
vhich facrilice (and that too at a great e;:pence
he blefiings of our natural fituatian.-—Such fyf
ems cannot have a national origin.
if we are asked, what government is ?—Wi
lold it to be nothing more than a national ajj'ocia
ion, and we hold that to be the belt, which fe
:ures to every man his rights, and promotes th'
;reateft quantity of happiness with the least ex
>ence.
We live to improve, or we live in vain ; an<
herefore we admit of no maxims of governmen
>r policy, on the mere score of antiquity, or othe
nen's authonty,the old whigs, or the new.
We will exercise the reason with which we ar
;ndued, or we polfefs it unworthily. As reafoi
s given at all times, it is for the purpose of beinj
jfed at all time>.
Among the blefiings which the French revolu
:ion has produced to that nation, v/e enuraerat
:he abolition of the feudal system of injulticu an
:yranny, on the 4th of August, 1789. BeneatJ
[he feudal system all Europe has long groarved
and from it England is not yet free. Game-laws
Borough-tenure?, and tyrannical monopolies,©
numerous kinds still remain amongit us : but re
oicing, as we lincerely do, in the freedom ofothers
:iil we shall happily accomplilh our own, we in
enued to commemorate this prelude to the uni
• er» a 1 extirpation of the feudal system, by meetin
>n the anniversary of that day (the 4th of August
iZ the crown and anchor. From this meeting w
*ere prevented by the interference of certain un
earned and fculking persons with the master of th
.avernj who informed us that on their reprefenta
:10ns he could not receive us.—Let those who liv
ay, or countenance feudal opprefiions, take th
eproach of this ineffectual meanness and coward
ce to themselves. They cannot ftifle the decla
ration of our honest, open, and avowed opinions.
These are our principles, and thele our fenti
nents. They embrace the intercft and nappinei
>f the great body of the nation of which we are
)art. As to riot? and tumults, let thoje anfwe
or them, who by wilful misrepresentations endea
/ored to excite and promote them j or, who feej
o jinn the lenl'e of the nation, and lose the grea
:aufeof public good, in the outrages of a mifin
ormed mob. We take our ground on principle
hat require no fucn riotous aid. We'have 110
hing to apprehend from the poor j for we ar
pleading their cause. And we fear not o
jppreflion j for we have truth on our fide.
We fay, and we repeat it; that the French re
/oluticn opens to the world an opportunity, a
vhich all good cit.rens must rejoice $ that of pro
noting the general happiness of man, and, iruxxe
>ver, offers to this cpuntry, in particular, an op
>ortunity of reducing its enormous taxes.
September 15.
Every arrival brings dismal accounts from th
:onvi£s at Botany-Bay. Every feeling heart muj
>e roused, that our fellow-creatures should, ai'te
>eing transported to such a diltant clime, be fuf
ered to linger oirt a miserable existence, aJrnot
vlthout raiment, and but little food (scarce tej
>unces in twenty-four hours) and that not good—i
ve lhould hop?, that now the experiment has beer
ried, for more than three years, and does not ap
>ear ever likely to anf.ver—that it may be aban
ioned, and some more eligible mode or place be
ixed on, as likely to be of some service to thi;
ountr), and lels expenfue : already there ha«
>een not much liiort of three miJiiorts expended,
ind not the least benefit derived therefrom.
The effeCt produced by the news-papers, is fc
•rodigioufly great, that it ought to be reckfine/i
is one of the molt important among the numerous
aufes, which have brought this country to its
•resent exalted and unrivalled situation. While
he improvements of the public roads and the cre
ition of immense aquedudts, have shortened the
aborious communication of real commerce •
vhile the universal confidence of fictitious com -
nerce, has removed in many cases the neceility <jf
uch weighty communication in pra&ice ; tile
lews-papers have given wings and light to every
hing. The value of all things is known in ail
:laces j private correspondence is shortened, and,
ometimes made fuperfluous j distances are re
noved j doubts are clcaied up, and the fame
knowledge of every bargain, every offer, ever}
wifli isdiffufea with the lame certainty and clear
ness over the whole kingdom, as the petty tranl
adions of a village are made known by the mo
t notonous proclamation of a bell-man. So fai
I their operation extends as to trade and the rea
concerns of life j but when we consider them in
censorial capacity, we lhall be still more astonish
ed at their effett. Iris well known that a cenfo
rial power is only another word for public opinio
it cannot exist without it. When the republi
of Rome ended, the emperors wished to retain tn
cenforfliip, and it was often revived, but alway
without effed. Pqblic opinion w-as corrupted
fliamc had loft its blufli ; no p«rfon feared it j an
shame is the only rial punilhment oi acent'oria
power: so that it is true, though milerably true
that beyond a certain line, jult in proportion a
''such a power is wantsd, its authority is of no et
fedt. With us, however, it is different. Pub
Jicity is the censor of* Great-Britain. r i he cer
tainty that the proceedings of every individual
from the highest to the lowcft, will be immeJi
ately transmitted from one end of Ihe country ii
the other, j from Jobnry Grot's houle to the Ul
tin:a Tku/e, keeps all the inhabitants, with aCo
ercion far frronger than the law, fiom doing an
thing, which they w u uid be aihamed to rea<
themfeives, or afraid that others flrould hear.
It is true that this power /nay be, has been, an<
must be liable at times to conliderable abufc, bu
this abuse has its remedy. The great variety o
the papers havipg separate imerefts and feparat
employers, often by contradicting each other, fe
mutual errors to rights j when thele errors ar
palpable, they beo me of little confeqUence. J
they be of a great and dangerous nature, the lav
is open, and it is now upon, experience, not onl;
open to hear, but ready to punish \*nenever then
is occasion. It is true that such prosecutions an
sometimes but poorfatisf-aftion totbeperfon com
plaining j yet such a defeat is only one among tii.
evils our situation exposes tis to as individuals
which we eadh of us readily hazard the chance of
having a much less (take in that hazard, than wi
have in the general benefit, that reiults to us wtd
certainty, as members of the community, to whof
profperlty these papers contribute so much, an<
could not do 10, but with this abuse as incidenta
to their nature.
It is certainly incumbent upon newspapers so:
their own fake to avoid it as much as possible,
There is enough Jul enough matter tha
is piquaute without it, and real wit never require!
a facrifice from propriety or truth, to propitiate
its divinity. Accordingly we find, that howevei
fomc years ago the licence of the press might b<
Complained of, when its liberty was new j then
are at present but few draw-backs on this heat
from its general utility. Another good confe
rence of the fame tendency, has followed th<
delivery of the newspapers from melTengers ant
secretaries, Perfon3 of better talents, of bettei
education, and of a higher station in life, thai
formerly, are induced to undertake an employ
ment, which by that delivery acquired a frestfoir
and independence that makes it equal to any otljc
department of writing, and renders it a liberal am
honorable, as well a 5 lucrative engagement j from
whence arises a security against its abuse that gain
ground evefy day, and is more operative than tlv
Iftrongeft direction of law j namely, the conductor'
own interest, in preserving the purity of his paper
by facrificing which to the difreputatjon of ano
ther, he in a much more effectual manner, coun
tera&s his own.
PORTSMOUTH, Sept. 12.
An invention is fuccefsfully used in the dock
yard for tarring ropes by the labour of horses in
Head of man, and another is shortly to be intfo.
duced for laying the cables by the fame means
This will be a great injury to the people employe<
in the rope house, but a very conliderable laving
to government.
Mr. Pring, a brufli maker of this place, has al
so discovered a method of preventing the fatal ac
cidents that happen through guns bursting by be
ing honeycomb'd, See. This invention has beer
submitted to and approved of by the matter gener
al of the ordinance, and a board of field officer
of the artillery, and by them ordered in future tc
be used. It is a brufli with springs, conitru&ec
en extremely ingenious mechanical principles, an<
cannot poliibly fail of anlwering the end proposed
COR K, Sept, 13.
Some young gentlemen of this city, who hav<
lately returned from France, give themoft favora.
ble accounts of the peace and tranquility wliid
reigns in the capital and provinces of that fre<
country, aa well as the unanimity of the people ii
favor of the new conftitucion.
KINGSTON, [Jamaica) Sept. 10.
Some milunderltandings are likely to takeplao
between the English and Spaniards, on the coaf
of Honduras, owing to the abTence of the Britifl
fuperintendant„ who some months ago failed so
England, without leaving a deputy to tranfaCi hi
public business. During his absence, arrived i
Spanish commilfarv, who, as stipulated by th<
treaty of 1786, vilits the Britiih limits twice eve
ry year, to lee that the conditions of the treaty ar.
complied with.—-The commiflary not finding an)
person on the pare of Great-Britain to receivi
him, and appoint a commilfary to accompan
him, as the treaty provided, sent to General CJjl'
vez, to acquaint him with the event. While hi
was waiting the answer, in visiting the iflunii:
along the Honduras coatt, he found the Englif]
turtlers fifhing beyond their limits j aU of wiion:
he seized, and detained till further orders. He
has also threatened to cut down all the Eoglift
planrers walk j which may be attended seri
ous consequences—as plantains, withfifli and tur
tie?, constitute the principal food of the inhabit
ants of these coasts.
BOSTON, Nov. 9.
The great ox, so much talked of, raised by Mr.
Rich of Brookfield, was publicly exhibited in
State-street yesterday. He is said to be thela-rgeA
ever raffed in America, and to be equal to any
that Europe can bsaft of. His weight a'. W s;cef
ter was 25201b5.
GEORGE MEADE
HAS FOR SALE,
At .his Stores on Wal nut-Street Wharf,
A FEW pipes of 3 and 4 years old bins cf ex
change Madara WINE, which he 111 il dtf
poje of by the pipe, kegjhead or quarter cajk.
London market Madeira WINE, andCyears old.
Old Sherry WINE of the frjl quality, by the
bog/head or quarter cajk.
Three and 4 years old Lisbon WINE, of a Su
perior quality to what is generally imported, by the
pipe, quarter cajk, or larger quantity.
Choice old Coi.iuc BRANDT, by the pipe, tierce,
or larger quantity,
Ajiw quarter chefs offir ft quality Hyfor. TEA*
He has just received by the Figtu, Loxicy, ma fit
from Lot.don, a few quarter talks of old Madeira
IVINEi-fAnd
by the brig Mercury, capt. Stevens, from Dub
'in, a few boxes of lrifh LINENS, lour trued
rrd we'll aJJ'orted : a feio baits of Red and White
FLANNELS, and Jome GLUE.
A feio boxes of Spermaceti CANDI ES of the
Hrft qualify, and Burlington PC RKfprime quality
He has aljo to difpoje if a quantity c/ dr'jji,
White Oak STAVES,
He means to keep a conflant supply of Firji {Qua
lity Madeira and Lisbon WINES, and -whoever
s pleafcd to favor him with their evftem, may ie
ijj'urtd of being well Jcr<oed.
He iviil through the Winter ar.d Spring f buy
ir.drefjed HANDSPIKES, He is pur chafing
FLAXSEED aud BEES-WAX, and will give
he higheff Price fur them,
N. B. A few Hampers of excellent London
PORTER and Taunton ALE, jufi arrived ar.d
0 be dfpefed cf. tf
CHARLES
No. 120,
Scuth Market, near Fourth Street,
las received from New-York, and manufactured
BY LOT MERKEL,
A large and General Ailcrtment of
Vluffs & Tippets, Trimmings S3 5
Edgings,
Jreat Coats, Caps, Mitts & gloves lined with fur;
which he will fell,
Wholesale arid Retail,
at the lov.'cft Prices.
Odh 4. lawt
TO BE SOLD, "B~
JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pear-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
Which may be seen tvery day, untilso'clock p.m
Among them are the following :
Folio, Homer, Xenophon, Plato, Plutarch,
Eufebius, Sozomen, Theodoret, Virgil, Horace,
Livy, Tacitus, . Paterculus, Piiny, Concordat*
:ia Lat. Concordantia Gr. Thelaurus Ciceronis,
Biblia Junii & Tremellii, BibJe de Martin,
Wells's Maps, Scapulae—Phiivorini—Martini)-—
Hoftmanuj Lexica, Voffii Etymologicon, Ami
}uit. Ecelcf. Britannicae, &c.
Quarto, Pindar, Cyropaedia, Bently's Ho
race, Terence and Phaedrus, Ovid, JuvenaJ,
Manilius, Ciceronis op. om. Ccfar, Suetonius,
Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voiiii Ars
Gram. Cluverii Geographia, Justinian Code, See,
06lavo et infra. Homer, Anacreon, A»ifto
phanes, Theophraftus, Hefiod, Poetae
mi lores Gr. Ifocrates, Phalaris, various edition
f Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibu!ltfs #
Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Plac
es, Aufonius, Buchanan, Salluft, Curtius,
fiorus, Juftin, Val. Maximus, A. Gellius,
Fiift. August. Scriptores, Engiljb and French
Tranjlations cf some of the Claliicj, a great va
riety or Greek and Latin Grammars. See. &c.
{Cj 3 Catalogues may be had of Messrs. Rice &
Co, Bookfeliers, Market-flrcet, or of
oa. 31. JOHN CAREY.
This Day are publijkcd,
sermons,
Hiilorical and Charafteriftical:
By WILLIAM LINN, D. D.
One of the Minijlers cf the Reform :d Pretejlant
Dutch Church, in the city cf New-York.
Sold by T. DOBSON & R. C AMPBELL.
[Price Three Quarters cf a Dollar.]
This day is Published,
By CHILDS and SWAINE,
In one Volume O&avo ;
[Price One Dollar and a half, the fnaail Edition,
and One Dollar and three quarters the large,]
THE
LAWS of the United States.
Collated with, and corrected by the original Rolls
inthe Office of the Secrecary of State.
With a copious INDEX ; or
A complete DIGEST of the LAWS ;
(Making 56 pages:)
Executed by an eminent Law Chara&er.
To obtain this ufeful and neceflary Part of the
Work complete, h*s retarded the Publication.
This Volume cp-rnprix.es the AErs cf the Thre*
SeJJions of the frfl Ccngrefs ; alf§, the Federal
Cunfiitution, and the Treaties between the
States and Foreign Nations --Together with an Ap
pendix, containing the Declaration of Independ
ence, and sundry Ordinances and RefAvis of Con
greis'under the Confederation,
Sold by Childs and Swa'tne, No• 239, High
fireet, Thomas Dobfon, Jfeph and
Robert Campbell, Philadelphia,
O&ober 25.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAINE,
at Thus orncE, no. 139, high-street,
MAX SIXTH-STSIET,
T«IJL A EZLfKIA-