Vol. I. MONDAY, November 21, 1791- Numb. 7
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
POPULATION and EMIGRATION.
BOTH in the vegetable and animai
kingdoms, every species- derives
from nature, a reprodu&ive faculty be
yond the demand for merely keephii
up its.stock : the feed of a fingje plan
is fufficient to multiply it one hundrec
or a thousand fold. The animal oft
spring is never limited to the number o
its parents*. -
This ordinance of nature is calculated
in both instances, for a double purpose
in both, it enlures the life of the fpe
c:es, which, if the generative principl
had not a multiplying energy, would b
reduced in number by every prematur
deftruttion of individuals, and by de
grees would be extinguished altogether
In the vegetable species, the surplus an
fwers, moreover, the eifential purpof*
of luftaining the herbivorous tribes o
animals ; as in the animal, the lurplu
serves the like purpose of fuftcnance t<
the carnivorous tribes. A cropof whea
may be reproduced by one teiuh of it
felf. The remaining nine tenths can b<
(pared for the animals which feed on it
A flock of (heep may be continued by .
certain proportion of itsannuai racrea'c
The residue is the bounty of n uure U
the animals which prey on that ( iccie.s
Man who preys both on the vegetable
and animal species, is himfelf a prey n
neither. He too poifeilesthe reproduc
tive principle far beyona the degree ie
quifne for the b;:re continuance of hi.
species becomes of the furplu:
of human life to which this principle i:
competent ?
It is either, iff. destroyed by »fai»ti
cid:, ::;2:r.or.g the Chine!" and ' x •
monians ; or 2d. it is ftifled or starved
as among other nations whose 1 opuia
tion is commensurate to its food ; or 3d
it is cor.fumedby wars and endemic dis
eases ; or 4th. it oveiflows, by emigrati
on, to places where a surplus of ±ood is
attainable.
What may be the greatest ratio of :n
---creafe of which the human species is
susceptible, is a problem difficult to be
solved ; as well because precise experi
ments have never been made, asbecaule
the result would vary with the circum
stances diltinguilhing different situati
ons. It has been computed that under
the most favorable circumstances pos
sible, a given number would double it
felf in ten years. What has actually
happened in this country is a prOof, that
nature would require for the pYnpole,
a less period than twenty years. We
{hall be Cafe in averaging the surplus at
five per centt.
According to this computation, Great
Britain and Ireland, which contain a
bout ten millions of people, are capable
of producing annually for emigration,
no lei's than five hundred thousand ;
France, whose population amounts to
twenty-five millions, no less than one
million two hundred and fifty thouiand ;
and all Europe, (fating its numbers at
one hundred and fifty millions, no less
than seven and a half millions.
It is not meant that such a surplus
could, under any revolution of circum
* The multij:ly;ng pcicer infome in/lances, ani
mal as well as vegetable, is afonifhmg. Avannu
alplart of two feeds produces ima years, 1,048,576;
and tkei e are plants which bear mere than 40,000
li ds. The roe of a Ccdjtjh is J'atd to contain a
million of eggs ; mites will multiply to a tl oifenc
in a day ; aud there are viviparous flies which pi 0-
auce 2000 at once. See §tiltingjUct and Br ad
ley's philosophical account cj nature.
t Emigrants from Europe, enjoy : ng freedom it,
a climatefmilar totheir ovn,in<reaJe at the rate oj
five per cent a year. Among Africans lufft rmg 01
(in the language of fonie) enjoying fhvery inacti
vate fmilar te their own, human tjehasb - n con
finned in an equal ratio. Under all the mitigati
ons latterly applied in the Bnt.fh W'Jl-Indns. it 1
admitted that an annual decreale oj one per cent
hen taken place. —What a teminent en the As ncai
trade !
Br PHILIP FRENEA U.
stances, suddenly take place : yet no
reason occurs why an annual supply of
human, as well as other anirtal life, to
any amount not exceeding the multi
plying faculty, would rot be producec
in One country, by a regular and com
menfurate demand of another. Nor i:
it meant that if such a redundancy o
population were to happen in any parti
cular country, an influx of it beyond <
certain degree ought to be delired bv ast)
nher, though within that degree, i
ought to be invited by a country great
y deficient in its population. The cal
:ulation may serve, nevertheless, b\
placing an important principle in a flrik
ng view, to prepare the way forthe sol
owing positions and reinanks.
First. Every country, whose popula
ion is full; may annually spare a porti
m of its inhabitants, like a hive of bee:
ts swarm, without any diminution o
is number : nay, a certain portion mull
leceffarily, be either spared, ordeftroy
d, or kept out of exiltencet.
Secondly. It follows, moreover, frou
his multiplying faculty of human na
me, that in a nation, sparing or loiins
noire than its proper surplus, the leve
nuft soon be reflored by the internal re
ources of life.
Thirdly. Emigrations may even a g
herit the population of the country per
ratting them. The commercial nation:
>f Europe, pal ling with emigrants, u
\tnerica, are examples. The article:
ifconfumption demanded from the form
:r, have created employment for an ad
iitional number of man <xrafturers. Thi
jroduce remitted from the latter, in th<
orm of raw materials, has had the sam
:fieft—whilft the imports and export
>f every kind, have multiplied Europe
.n merchants and maiincrsi Wheretin
ettlers have doubled every twenty 01
wenty-five years, as in the Unitei
itates, the encreafe of products and con
umption in the new country, and con
equently of employment and people ir
he old, has had a corresponding. rapi
lity.
Of the people of the United States
learly three millions are of British def
:ent||. The British population has not
vithftanding Increaf'ed within the peri
od of oureftablifhment. It was the opi
lion of the famous fir Jofiah Child, thai
:very man in theßritifh colonies fount
■inployment, and of courl'e, Cubfiften.ce
or four persons at home. According
o this eftirnate, as more than half i
nillion of the adult males in the United
itates equally contribute employment
it this time to British fuhjefts, there
nuft at this time be more tiian two mil
ions of British iubjefts subsisting o:
he fruits of British emigrations. Thi:
efult, however, f'eems to be beyend the
eal proportion. Let us attempt a lei:
/ague calculation.
The value of British imports into the
United States including British ireight
may be ftaied at about fifteen millions o
dollars. Deduct two millions for fo
cign articles coming through Britifl
lands ; there remain thirteen millions
About half ourexpoits, valued at ter
millions of dollars, are remitted to thai
nation. From the nature of the articles
the freight cannot be less than three mil
lions of dollars : or which about on<
fifth § bein-, the share of the Unitec
X The mojl remarkable nftonus ofthc fuaim
f people that have been fpaud tuu/xml dmimjf.in,
he parent Jock, are the colonics und colon: f oj colc
lies among the antunt Greeks. Mile turn, etihuh ua
tjelf a colony, is reportedly Pliny, to hair ejublijh
■dno less than Jciehty colonies, cn the Htllejpent
■he Profionlis. ord the Evxine. Other fails of i
'ike kind are to he found ir, tie Cre:k Ifljlu. tiiwt.
| Irish is meant to he included
This is Jatedas the fad is, not as it outfit,
be. The United Slates are r , >ul : \' cntUxd t\
half tl: freight, if under regul.it,ans rrkctly vc
ciprocai in every chann i oi navigation, the
■ould acquire that share. According to' IjrdSh'f
field, indeed, the i r.-ted States are mill rjf, cimpem
;d ui'ti: ■'■ her ,atwus ; the ton'r.> e r- thi
States, there is to be added to the form
er remainder, two millions four hun
dred thousand. The profit accruing
from the articles as materials or auxili
aries for manufactures, is probably.at
lea $'fifty' per cent, or five millions or
dollirs?. The three sums make twen
ty rrullions four hundred thbufand dol
lars . call them in round numbers twfen
tv millions.—The expence of support
ing a labouring family in Gteat-Britain,
>>s computed by Sir John Sinclair,on fix
families containing thirty-four persons,
averages £ : 12: 10 | sterling, or about
twenty dollars a head. As his families
were! of the poorer class, and the subsist
ence a bare competency, let twenty-five
per cent, be added, making the expence
about twenty five dollars a head, divid
ing" twenty millions by this sum, we
have eight hundred thousand for the
number of British persons whose subsist
ence may be traced to emigration for its
f'out-ce : or allowing eight (hillings ster
ling a week, for the support of a work
in:; man, we have two hundred sixteen
thousand three hundred forty-five of
that class, for the number derived from
the fame source.
This lelfon of fa£t, which merits the
no'ice, of every commercial nation, may
be enforced by a more general view of
tir.- fubjeft.
The present imports of the United
States, adding to the firft cost, &c. one
half the freight as the reasonable (hare
o'.'foreign nations, may beft.rtcd at twen
ty-five millions of dollars. Deducting
five millions on account of Eaft-Iridra
articles, there remain in favour of Eu
rope, twenty millions of dollars. '1 he
fejeign labour incorporated with such
tyj-t of our exports as arc fubje&s or in
fWHSfts - for nianufa&ures, together
with half the export freight, is proba
bly not of less value than fifteen millions
of dollars. The two sums together malic
thirty-five millions of dollars, capable
as lupporting two hundred thirty-three
thousand three hundred thirty-three fa
milies of fix persons in each : or three
hundred feventy-eightthoufand iix hun
dred and five men, living on eight fhil
tings sterling a week.
The share of this benefit, which eacli
nation is to will be determined
jy many circumflances. One that must
lave a certain and material influence,
will be, the taste excited here sos their
refpeclive products and fabrics. This
nftuence has been felt in all its forec
nythe commerce of Great-Britain, as
;he advantage originated hrthe emigra
tions from that country to this ; among
he means of retaining it, will not be
lumbered a restraint on emigrations.
Dther nations, who have to acquire their
hare in bur commerce, are still more
nterefted in aiding their other efforts,
3V permitting, and even promoting em
it/rations to this country, as fact as it
nay be disposed to welcome themw Ihe
pace left bv every ten or twenty thou
f'apd emigrants will be speedily filled by
a surplus of life that would otherwifebe
oft. The twenty thousand in their new
:ountry, calling for the manufacture;
'.radewifh the whole of them, previous to the Ameri
:an Jit&iuticn, having belonged to Biitf J'ubjecis
in the proportion of more than eleven tu ft/is. J>
'.he year iCfio, other nations mened aibut 1-4; »
1700 lejs than 1-6 ■, In 1725 1-19 ; 1750 1-12
n \"]i\,lef than thatproportion. What' the pro
Portion is row, is not krtonn. If fuck has been th
Ijerationoftlitßritifh fravivation '.won other ua
•ions, it is our duty, w thrnt enquiring into thn
icau fence in its mcnepolning tendency, to defem
•-if.ivesago.inJl it, by ail t.ie fair and paden
wans in oui power.
f 77 k rt admitted to hi a verv va-: w. eflmate
The /;> 1" o-ficH cf our ■ rts t 'hick are either ne
:ejjerus j hfe. or httce fame profitable xonneHio\
with tr.J M/a wult It t-retiy «■'"'> cvwpated
T. ~■■ ■' rft> .■?: t L:t pr > j n.s iricr:
difficult t cu'f tel ah . ~ " - d rem
btod 0,11: he proportion of fad ef cUrmf mls as
tre\tfor'tx '">,»> ■ ' r '' "■ ven
h:tei Ji:,-:g : a j :it- oimneicc j '.he L x.tcJ dijl.j
and produ&ions required by their ha
bits, will employ and sustain ten thou
sand persons in their former country,
is a clear addition to its flock. In
twe'bty or twerity-fH'e years, the num
3cr, so employed and added, will be
twenty thousand. And in tne nreau
time, example and information will be
diffufii?g the lame taste among other in
habitants here, and proportionally ex
ending employitidnt and population
:here.
Fourthly. Freedom 6f emigration is
due to the general interests of humani
ty. The fcourfe of emigrations being
tlwayS, from places where living ismoic
difficult, to places where it is less difli
;uit, the happiness of the! emigrant is
promoted by the change : and as a more
mmeroui progeny is another effect of
.lie fame cause, human life is at once
nade a greater blelling, and more indi
viduals are created to partake of it.
The annual expence of fuppoftiftg the
lo'or in England amounts to more than
;ne million and a half (lerling.* The
lumber of persons, subsisting themselves
lot more than lix months in the year, is
romputeu at one million two hundred
;xty eight thousand, and the number of
DCggars at forty eight thousand. In
France', it has been computed that seven
millions of men women and children
ive one with another, on twenty-five
ivres, which is less than live dollars a
Every benevolent reader will'
nake his Own reflections.
Fifthly. It may not be fuperfluous to
idd, that freedom of emigration is fa
vorable to morals, A great proportion
>f the vices which distinguish crouded
from thin fettlemenrs, are known to
nav'e their rife in the facility of illicit
ntercQurfe between the fcxes, on one
band; and the difficulty of maintaining
i family, on the other, l rovide an out
let for the fufplus of population, and
marriages will be increased in propor
tion. Every four or five emigrants will
be the fruit of a legitimate union which
would not otherwise have taken place.
Sixthly. The remarks which have
yeen made, though in many refpectts little
ippliCable to tiie internal lituation of the
United States, maybe of ufeasfar asthey
:end to prevent :*iftaken and narrow
deas 011 an important fubjett. Our
tountry being populated in clific rent de
;rees in different parts of it, removals
rom the more compact to the more Ipare
>r vacant diftri&s are continually, going
orward—Theobje&of thefc removalsii
tvidently to exchange a less easy tor a
noreeafv subsistence. The dictt of them
nufttherefore be to quicken the aggiv
;ate population ofour country. Confid
e-in.'; the progrels made in some fituat;-
nstowards their natural complemeutof
nha-bitants, anH the fertility of others,
.v-hich have made littla or no progrets,
he probable difference in tireir rel'pec
ive rates of increaie is not less than as
hree in the' former to five in the latter.
Irrftead of lamenting then a loss of three
human beings to Connecticut, Rhode-
Ifktnd, or New-Jerfev, the
'lift, will rejoice that J:uc will be gained
;o New-York, Vermont or Kentucky;
ind the patriot will be not less pie-fed
hat two will be added tot'itcitizensejthe
United s.
Philadelphia,"Nov. 19, *791.
* Fr. m : iijizr 1775 ti Eater 1770, was ex
.r. led the turn of £. 1,556,5i;4 •• 6-3 fieriir*.
:,.t AtAer, .»#/. 5. p- t-T-• Tbit <ueUt«-'
f'ol med writer cenjeftvres the annual expencz to be
>,;ar £. 2,c00, 00ofteriing. ]t is to be regretted
'hat the number and expence of the poor in ibc
[' d Stale: ir.ni.l h- t ■, rafted with j-- L j ■ '
P 'The u jit Hive 1 nerns refeurcb, ami c mo*lil
trodure the rrucfi ?« ogium n :ur country.
SENTIMENT.
Great is the beauty and' flatnlity of truth, and
v*t itfeems not abundantly to poiT-is the power
.)!' persuasion.
Good nature is an eflential qjiality in a satirist,
Hid tU tl:" 1 ' 111. t we beautiful 111 tins
!; »• t isvi.i uiile i.u-i this mcuvs tauie
iathor. ' ■'%. it *P li' I L A D E L P H I A.
CONGRESS.
ftOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES..
THURSDAY, November 17.
Cornelius C. Schoonmaker, fron
New-York, and Thomas Hartley fron
Pennsylvania appeared and took thci
feats.
Petitions were read from Lewis An
derfon, Thomas Carhartt, Philip Green
wait, William Loring, and Davu
Welsh, refpeftively praying compenfa
tion, for services rendered, &c. in th<
army of the United States during th'
war.—Referred to the Secretary a
War.
Mr. Gerry, from Massachusetts, an<
Mr. Findley, from Pennsylvania, wer
reported duly elected members of th l
House.
According to the order of the day
the House resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole on the bill " Direftin
the mode in which certain evidence
of the debt of the L T nited States, whicl
have been loft , or destroyed, may be re
ncwed."
A motion was then made by Mi
Sedgwick for striking out the word
loft or, as he thought that in cases o
loft certificates the public ought to b
better secured, than they are in the mod
pointed out in the bill.
Mr. Smith (N.H.) Messrs. Wadfwortli
Hillhoufe, Giles and Barnwell, were al
for striking out, upon the general prin
ciple of impracticability and public in
convenience in renewing loft certifi
cates so as not to iubjcS; the public t
frauds from the holders. The paffin:
a law of renewal, would also (in the opi
nion of Mr. Hillhoufe) be holding fort]
an encouragement to negligence in th
potfeffors of certificates.
Mr. Laurence, tho't the provision
made in the bill were fufficient. Th
publifhingan accurate description of th
loft certificate, he said, would enabl
the officer to discover whether such cer
tificate had been really ilfued ; and i
fufficient security was given to refunc
the money to the United States, in cafi
of recovering the loft certificate, he di<
not fee how the public could fuffer fron
any law providing for a renewal of fuel
a species of paper.
The question was taken oh the moti
on for striking out, and palled in th<
affirmative.
Mr. Muhlenberg reported that twe
other amendments had been made to thi
bill, extending the time for the renew
al and issuing of the certificates ; upoi
which the House proceeded to take th<
feid amendments into consideration, anc
made lome progrefsl therein, when ar
adjournment Was called for, previous t<
taking the question.
Adjourned.
Friday, November 18.
Petitions were laid before the Houfi
from Barney Cox and Oliver Towles
praying compensation for services in th.
army, during the war ; alio a memoria
of Oliver Towles, praying reimburfmen
of expences, incurred on-account of th<
United States, while a priioner, and as
terwards during the war.
A petition of James Groves, cord
wainer, of Philadelphia, praying com
penfation for two years, eight month
and seven days service of an apprentice
enlisted into the continental artillery.—
Also, a petition of John Hafkill, pray
ing re-imburiement of a sum of publii
money, received for the recruiting fer
vice, and loft.
The preceding petitions were all re
ferred to the Secretary at war.
A petition of Philip Bush was read
praying renewal of a certificate, hi
property, accidentally loft or destroyed
A petition of William Franklin, o
New-York (city) praying compenfatior
for a quantity of mahogany, and th<
fails of a vessel, converted to public uf<
during the war.—Referred, severally, tc
the Secretary of the Treasury.
A petition was then read from the
branch pilots of Pennsylvania, New
Jerley, and Delaware, plying in Dela
ware river and bay, praying an increaft
in the rates of pilotage—Referred to the
committee for regulating pilots and pro
viding for the fuperintendance of light
houses, &<:. in the Bays of Delaware
and Chef* peak, and their refpe&ive
rivers.
A petition of James Weeks, prayin:
reimbursement of the amount of a vefl'e
and cargo, his property, scuttled durin
the war, by order of the Pennfylvani;
committee of fafety—Reje&ed.
The committee appointed, reported ;
bill for apportioning the reprefentatior
of the people of the United States, whicl
was twice read, and ordered to be re
fumed on Monday next. [The repre
fentation mentioned in the bill was a
follows: New-Hampshire 4 members
Massachusetts 15, Connecticut 7, Rhode
Island 2, Vermont 2, New-York 11
New-Jersey 5, Pennsylvania 14, Dela
ware l, Maryland 9, Virginia 21, N
Carolina 11, Georgia 2, Kentucky 2
South-Carolina in proportion to the re
turn that shall be made, one for ever
thirty thouland.J
A melTage from the Senate by Mi
Otis:
" Mr. Speaker,
1 am directed by the Senate to brin
to this House a letter received by th
President of the Senate from the Prefi
dent of the Aflembly of the French Cc
lony of-St. Domingo, to the Congress c
the United States."—Which was order
ed to lie on the table.
A letter was then laid before th
House from the Treasurer of the Unite
States, inclosing his indent account c
interejl received and lll'ued by him froi
July l, to September 30. 1791.
The House then resumed the confidei
ation of the amendments reported froi
the committee of the whole'Houfe, t
the bill directing the mode in which th
evidence of the debt of the United State
which have been lojl or dejlroyed shall b
renewed.
Mr. Lee thought there fhouldbe fom
provision made for lofl certificates ; ur
der which denomination, however, h
would include only fucli as should ay
pear upon the strongest evidence to hav
been actually destroyed. The
being thus explicit, would at once b
understood, and no man would be at th
trouble of making useless application
for renewal. He wilhed the wor
dejlroyed to be omitted altogether, an
the word lojl only retained, with a claul
in the bill, that certificates were onl
renewable upon the strongest prefumj:
tive evidence of their having been lo:
[or destroyed.]
M r. S e d c w 1 c k insisted that the Hc*l!
had no right to define what species c
evidence should establish a fact. If the
could do it in this instance. they coul
also in every other, and by that mean
involve the whole legal code in obfci
rity.
Mr. Clarke argued that the condui
of the House in refpe& to the proviiio
contemplated, was unprecedented, es
cept in one instance, when a forme
Congress, during the war, did the fan?
thing. A reason might then iiave bee
given which at present would be abl'ur
to urge. In the time of war, the deval
tations and conflagrations of the enem
destroyed public securities every wher
in the houses of individuals, and to kee
up the spirit of the people it feeme
necefiary fonCongrefs to indulge ther
with renewals of papers thus destroy
ed. Matters being upon a different foot
ing at present, he wilhed to fee no pro
vision made, whatever.
Mr. KitcheLl preferred the won
dejlroyed to the word lofl. He was again'
eftablilhing any general rule in cases o
renewing destroyed certificates, am
rather wished the House to enquire am
form an opinion from the circumstance
of each, individually.
Mr. Gerry was against palling th<
bilLin its present form, as being liabL
in its consequences, to fraud, perjury
ind every species of abuse. In order t<
ilcertain fa£fs, it would be ncoelTary tha
he claimants should have recourse ti
public records. Hence a fraudulen
peculator might discover what certi
kates were loft, and lay plans for reco
/ering them. During the war, man'
public officers had loft certificates, th
imount of which was afterwards allow
:d. It would now be impossible toiden
ify such certificates. Many publi
ecurities were also wantonly deftroyei
>y the enemies of the revolution, in th<
ime of the war, whose value was neve
:nown. It was therefore impossible t(
ell what lengths the bill would go it
nvolving the United States in a new
lebt.
Several other gentlemen having fpok
n on this fubjett, the question was pu;
hat the said bill with the amendmcn
be engrofTed and read the third time-
It palled in the negative.
Mr. Livermore, from the committe
of ele&iojis, made a report on the lette
from the executive of Maryland, rela
tive to the relignation of William Pink
ney, returned a member of the Hpulc :
and a certificate of the election of John
Francis Mercer, in the room of said
Pinkney t which was read—Ordered to
lie on the table.
A memorial was presented from the
commissioned officers of the army of the
United States, stating the inadequacy ol
their pay, subsistence and forage, under
the prelent establishment, and praying
an augmentation—Referred to a felefl
committee.
Mr. Ames made a report from the
committee, to whom was referred the
petition of James Jackson, which was
read and ordered to lie on the table.
A motion being previously madtf, the
committee were discharged from furthei
proceeding on the petition of Jofia:
Clapham; which petition, together wit}
thole of Daniel Robbins and Phinea:
Ware, were referred to the Secretary o
the Treasury.
Mr. Fitzfimons, from the committe<
on the petition of Stephen Zachari
made a report, which was ordered tc
lie on the table.
Otftcr orders of the day were furthe:
postponed till Monday next.
Adjourned.
For tbe National Gazette.
The following Letter is addrefled to thi
Government of the United States
and is entitled,
" A Political Enquiry into the bejl Means o
improving the Commerce of the
American States."
[ Translated for the Naiional Gaxette, from th
original French manuscript of the Author, da
ted Ntiv-L ridnr, May jy, 1791.]
Having taken a view of the envi
able iituation of the America]
States at the present period, and con
fidered in all its branches that free am
virtuous government under which th
people live; a government no less wil
in its principles than the adminiftra
tion of it is honorable to the magiftra
cv, 1 could not help thinking that f
promising an outset tnuft be fucceede*
by ages of peace and felicity in thi
country. —With a view of applying nr
observations to the United States, I hav'
made some reiearch into the histories o
palt tunes, to discover, if possible, thei
methods of improvement, not only ii
the cultivation and production of th
rude materials, which go towards flip
porting the various manufactures in use
but alio in those subordinate arts am
trades, which when fufficiently follow
ed and encouraged here, will be ad
vanced to the highest possible degree o
perfection.
In purluing this fubjea, I shall en
deaVour to explain what is the genera
interest of America, as a nation ; am
shall hkewife take into view the politi
cal iyftems ot leveral thriving nations ii
Europe ; and from hence deduce, in par
ticular, the secret motives and lpring
or action in the Hritijh government.
If we cast our eves but for a momen
on what is tranfafting in Europe, W (
(hall at once fee, that the attention o:
all nations is fixed, more than at
former period, upon the great object:
ot commerce, which are justly conii
dered the true sources of nationa
profpenty and the splendor of crowns
in this convitlion, they would indivi
clually make immense in or
der thereby to be sure of appropriate
certain lolid advantages, which thev arc
lenfible a well-conduced commerce ne
ver fails to procure. The national in
terelt is evermore uppermost in theii
minds and the ardour of patriotifir
ipurs them on to employ every active
power, and all the address possible, tc
bring about purposes founded in the
deepest abylfes of state policy. Some
times every possible scheme is laid tc
render abortive the united interests anc
growing industry of a rival nation ; a
other times, they are unweariedly bem
upon throwing obstacles in the way o
foreign eftabhffiments, for the sole pur
pole of maintaining their own impor
ance and grandeur upon the ryms o
the commerce of their neighbors. Sue!
as always been the policy of Holland
andU'fti 'r the ' r , Baltic Eafl
this y /eft - Indla trad « ; and such, a,
his day, appears to be the policy 01
jreat-Britain, in refpeft to the United
states of America.
We cannot doubt for a single mo
ment, that the court of Great-Britain
To eagle-eyed to whatever concerns its
>wn interest) forefeeing that a ftagna
ion of their commerce will most cer
ainly ensue, from the increasing manu
ra£lures of this country, will conftant
y feel itfelf disposed to facrifice some
>f their less important national inter
■fls, in order to damp the spirit of en
erprize and manufacture, in their ri
/als. If they can only contrive todif
learten and ruin those that firji attempt
nanufaftures in America, by putting
m inferior price upon the rival articles
ent from Britain, they will by degrees
persuade the Americans, that manufac
uring in this country is a hopeless pro
eft, or attended with insurmountable
difficulties. The effect of this perfua
ion will be, that future artisans, fear
ing the fate of their predecessors, will
either leave the country, or employ
'hemfelves in callings of a different na
ture!
This purpose being aceomplifhed,
England may at once consider herfelf
the sole manufacturer for America, and
triumph over every other obstacle, in
the fame manner, as heretofore in Por
tugal, when with all imaginable dexte
rity she possessed herfelf of their com
merce, and a great part of the treasures
Df Brazil, which are to this day conti
nually pouring into London, by a trade
advantageous to England, but ruinous
io the Portuguese. In the fame manner,
1 fay, will England exert her powers of
activity in inundating this country with
her various fabrics, but at the lame time
draining their ready money from tho
United States, who, to fatisfy the con
lequent demands of the British mer
chants, must be, in fact, under the ne
cefiitv of paying the nation a fort of tri
bute. and which, in reality, is now paid
in our being compelled, to purchase the
most common articles of neceflity from
them.
And thus it is, that, with a fingls
dafli of his pen, a British minister can
determine the commercial fate of a na
tion, and render tributary and depend
snt, a people in the bosom of liberty
itfelf. The picture is, indeed, diftreff
tng, but would be much more so, did
lot the Americans possess within them
selves the means effectually to prevent
:he baneful conferences I have hinted
it. I therefore think it of some mpor
ance to dwell a little upon this subject,
'nd, if poflible, withdraw that veil of
darkness which seems to conceal the na
ional interests of the United States
rom themselves.
[To be continued..']
The two following State Papers are trans
lated from the original French, and may
be relied on as authentic.]
The Assembly General of French
St. Domingo to the King.
SIR E,
\/ OUR faithful Subjects of the island
•A- of St. Domingo, beg leave to ap-
Jroach the best of Kings, with the me
an choly narrative of the misfortunes
hey now labour under. The revolt of
aeir ilaves has nearly annihilated the
uture consequence of this invaluable
>art of tiie Empire ; the whole northern
ide ot the illand being at this moment
ittle better than a heap of ruins, and the
>ther two departments, in all probabi
ity, upon the verge of experiencing the
am ? . That foil, which has been
ertilized with the sweat of the unfortu
late planter is now moistened with his
>lood : fucharethe direful confequen
:es of those deftruftive principles which
lave put the instruments of death and
uin into the hands of our slaves.
Being without any effective force to
nake head against the immense number
>1 our enemies, we implored the aflift
mce of the Spaniards, and other insular
leighbours—deaf to our cries, however,
hey have either rested fatisfiedwith the
icience of their own territories, or with
ortifying themselves against the proba
>ility of an event at home, similar to
at, under which we are now fiiffenntr
very extremity ofhuman distress.
It is with the deepest sensations of
>rief that your faithful fubjefts, in this
jait or the Empire, inform your Majef-
V o. their unhappy lituation : but it
ae, at least, a consolation to the wretch,,
ed, to reflect, that they are still the ob-je&sof the companion of their Monarch
that his feeling heart will fympathi'z
with them in their distress, and afFon
the necelfary aid on this trying occa
fion —In this hope, penetrated with th
most profound refpeft, which shall ac
tuate us toour last moments, we remain
The Members of the General A 1
fembly of the French Part of St
Domingo.
PI. de CADUSCH, President,
PONCIGNON, Vice Pre/idcnt.
Petit Defchampeaux, Millet,
Lux etMiailles; Secretaries.
Cape Francais, September
l 3> i 791-9 1 -
The General Assembly of French St.
Domingo,
To the National Assembly of France.
ONE hundred thousand Blacks havi
revolted in the Northern department o
this I Hand. More than two hundrec
Sugar Plantations are totally consumed
the mailers massacred. and only a fevt
females spared, to be carried into a cap
tivity worse than death itfelf.—The ne
groes have already possessed thernfelve;
of the heights, where fire and sword ha:
attended their progress—an immenfi
number of coffee plantations are destroy
ed by the flames, and the few that re
main are every moment menaced wit!
deftru£hon. Such aged persons, wo
men and children as have escaped th<
carnage, have forfook their homes, ant
took refuge on board the vessels in th(
harbour, as their only alfylum in thi:
dreadful extremity of affairs.
Too weak in ourselves to stem tht
torrent of infurreftion, we have beggec
afliftance from the neighbouring islands
should the aid we have petitioned for
arrive in time to prevent our total anni
hilation, the utmost of our present expec
tations will be answered.—The I'ourcc
of our riches and commercial import
ance is gone—the fountain is dried up
for ever.
We shall not intrude upon your pa
tience by endeavoring to develope the
causes of these misfortunes.—Thefcmufl
be fufficientlv obvious to every membei
in your august assembly—We conclude
with faying, that if we must perish, oui
last looks shall be turned towards France,
and our last prayers shall be for her
prosperity.
The Members of the General As
sembly of French St. Domingo—
PI. de CADUSCH, Preftdcnt.
PONCIGNON, Vice-Prefident.
Petit Defchampeaux, Millet,
Lux, et Miailles, Secretaries.
Cape-Francais, Sept. 13, 1791.
BOSTON Nov. 5.
The harved, the latter as well as the former,
has amply rewarded the toil of the husbandman.
The increase of all the bleflings which provi
dence ever bedowed on a people, is beyond all
calculation, in the United States; and the united
voices of lour eadern dates, will, on the 17th
inft. render public homage and thanklgiving
therefor, to the author of every gift.
RICHMOND, (Virginia) Nov. 11.
By a gentleman from Kentucky we are in
formed that the Induns onthe 4th oflafl month,
fired on a party of fix men, who were driving s
parcel o cattle to the Mufkingum settlement;
and killed four, wounded one, and took one pii
foner ; the wounded man escaped, who had ma
ny bullet holes fhotthrough his doaths. Amongfl
the number killed, was a Mr. Nicholas Carpen
ter, who has left a family to bemoan their less.
A few days before the above affair, a man was
killed near the little Hockhockin, and a negrc
boy taken off from the little Kanhawa, who since
efcapcd and got home.
JN the HOUSE OF DELEGATES.
Thurjday, November 3, 179 1 ■
Ordered, That a committee be appointed,
to notify to Henry Lee, Esq. his election to the
chief magidracy of this commonwealth for one
year, from the firft day of December next.
And a committee was appointed of Mr. COl
- Mr. Hopkins, Mr. Sm.th, Mr. Andrews,
Mr. Harrifon, Mr. Braxton, Mr. Wilkinfor
(of Henrico) Mr. Nelson, and Mr. Daniel.
To HENRY LEE, Efq,
ST R ,
WE are appointed by the General Assembly
to notify to you, your elctfion to the office ol
chief magidrate of this commonwealth.
We feel peculiar pleasure in conveying thi:
information to ycu, a plealure resulting as well
from our personal refpeit and regard, as from this
reflection,
Thatwhilft the General Assembly have confu
ted the welfare and dignity of the commonwealth,
in conferring upon you this didinguifhed honor,
they have acknowledged at the fame time and in
the fulled manner the high sense which they en
tertain of vour merit as a soldier and as a citiz e n.
■Mr. Corbin reported from the committee ap
pointed to notify to Henry Lee, Esq. his elec
tion to the chief magistracy of this common
wealth for one year, that the committee had ac
cordingly waited on that gentleman tor that pur
pose, and that he had been pleased to return the
following answer:
OtNTiriiiNi
1 receive with humility and with gratitude the
diflinguifhed honor conferred upon me: to m)
mind invaluable, because it conveys the (frong
eft testimony of the afi'e£Hon and confidence o:
my country.
Present my mofl rcfpe£lful thanks to the Ge
neral AtTembly and allure them of my best en
deavors to promote the common good during m\
admimftration.
Accept, gentlemen, my acknowledgments so;
the obliging manner in which you havecommu
nicated my appointment, and permit me to de
clare that my heart returns with sincerity the fen
timents of personal rtfpeS and regard wits
which you have been pleased to honor me,
PHILADELPHIA,
November 21.
Extracl of a, letter from Hackney, England.
September 2.
" In this country the fplrit of refor
mation is fpreadiilg very impetuously
Nor has Mr. Paine, the renowned au
thor of Common Sense contributed a fmal
portion of fuel to the flame that has beer
k'ndled. His answer to Mr. Burke i:
in all hands i it is read in all circles
it makes converts among all parties
Thousands of copies have been fold ir
Enfland : and I am allured that in Ire-
D 3
land and Scotland the printing prefle!
are too flow in their operations for the
avidity of the people. Mr. Burke raved
in the House of Commons, and had the
mortification tofind that both hisfriends
and the world are deferung him : not
do the King's ministers give any ear tc
his very open advances of good will
and friendfhip. It is rsmarkable that
in his debates he frequently refers tc
Paine's book, and thereby fliews how
much it galls him. But while he is in
dulging his rage, his pride will not
allow him to mention the objefl; of it by
his name. In short his unpitied and
disregarded fury is, perhaps, one of the
surest testimonies of that general revo
lution which is now taking place in the
political partialities and opinions of the
public."
Extraß. of a letter from. Port-au-Prince.
dated 2gtK OElober, received via N. York.
I take pleasure in informing you that
peace was once more malde between the
Whites and Mulattoes, on Saturday last.
the 22d instant: andyefterday 2500 ol
the latter marched with their arms intc
town, and paraded in company with
the former, before the church, when
;he inhabitants, with the officers of each
party, entered the church and sung Te
Deum. How long the peace will last is
uncertain, as a number of the inhabi
tants are not well pleased ; and as to the
terms, I cannot at present inform you.' :
Late advices from France fay, that after the
firfl day of O&ober, 179 1 ) n0 American {hips,
laden with tobacco weicto be admitted to entry
in the French ports, except upon condition ol
coming directly from America with clearance:
for France.
On Thursday last arrived in this city from the
Western Country, Brigadier-General liarmar
with his lady and family ; on a vilit, it is laid, du
ring the winter.
In confluence of several definitive fires thai
have recently happened in New-York, the com
mon council of that city have revised their lay
refpeftmg fires, and among other additiona
clauses, ordained, under panalty of severe fines
that in future no hay orftraw fliall be depofitet
in buildings within the city, other than luch a
are ofbrick or flone, and covered with tile o
slate ; the neglect of such a precaution having
it is thought, been the principal cause of the ma
ny serious losses occasioned by the breaking ou
of fires in that capital.
In the new (hip Delaware buile for Meflrs
Hazlehurft and Co. of this city, an improvemen
is' made in the manner of (leering. The whee
commonly made use of, a£ts upon a rope whicf
communicates motion to the rudder. I his rop<
is liable to wear and break, especially whenmofl
wanted in rough weather ; besides, it, by working
for a short time, stretches and gets flack ; thi:
proves a great inconvenience in bad weather
when the aclion of the rudder is necc(f3ry tt
keep the vessel out of the trough of the sea ; a:
sometimes in this cafe, the wheel must perforir
a considerable revolution before it acts upon tilt
rope and consequently the rudder. I hele in
conveniences are obviated in the new conUrufct
ed rudder on board the America. Ihe whee
moves an axis to which a caff-iron wheel o
much fmallerdimenfions, with cogs is fixed -
■i his cogged wheel consequently revolves wits
the largei one, to which the force is applied, ane
acts in its turn upbn a ftgment of a circle witl
correfpondicg cogs. The segment by mean.
of iron bars as radii, is conire&ed w th the bead
of the rudder to which it communicates the mo
tion it receives.
It is mentioned in a Boston paper of Nov. i,
that in the debate in their legislature on the pro
priety of admitting or rejecting the petition toi
a Theatre, in that capital, Mr. Samuel Adam
role up to speak in opposition to a Theatre, but
could not be heard for the numbers, who by
coughing, fhuffling on the floor, and other vile
practices, prevented a single word of what the
venerable patriot delivered, being heard.
A lubfeription book, is to be Opened in this
city on the firft day of December ensuing, to
raifealum ol money for the purpose of opening
a canal between the waters of and Suf
quehanna riveis, toextend from the Quitapahilla
to Telpuhocken
A writer in a New-York paper of last Wcd
nelday contradicts the account, lately published
ma Philadephia print, of the arrival of the
Countess of Effingham, at the firft mentioned
port.
Extracts of letters from a field-officer in the welt
er n army, to his friend in Annapolis, dated.
Camp, Great-Miami, jft, 20th, and 20th oJ
September.
" his place, (NT. 15) W. of Fort-Washington
about 20 miles, is situated between a small lake
ana the river, by nature a strong and defepfibk
post, which we lhall fortify, and leave a garrifor
of 300 men to protect—Our destination is ther,
to the head waters of this river, and posts are tc
be established as we advance— he army which
is now about 1700 strong, w ill by these means be
very much weakened.
" We shall have a cold campaign, and ever)
probability of hard blows ; as from the best in
formation I can colledt, the Indians are 150 c
strong, and well provided with provisions frorr
the Canadians.
" This country is too valuable to be loft; the
foil rich, luxuriant, and easily reduced into 2
date of cultivation, and nature has here diftribu
ied her blcflings with a bountiful hand. We
are at this time commanded by Col. Darke, but
sxpe<sl daily general Butler to take thf command,
who, we hear, has arrived at Fort alhingtoE
with a reinforcement equal in numbers to our
whole army.
" Lieutenant Davidfon marched four weeks
igo to Corvolt's station, on the Little Miami
where he ft ill has the command. A gallant pro
nifing young officer. Dispatches from him, with
.ll these few days, announce their being well there
" ( ur little army is well formed, and not un
lealthy, though the duty hard.
" Since our arrival in this country we have noi
,oft a man, nor seen an Jndian ; though our fcouti
their vestiges near our encampments daily.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman at Camp
near the Miami, Sept. 18, 1791.
" On the Bth of September, the 2d regt. o
levies arrived at Fort-Wafhiugton, on the gth
hey were joined by the 2d regt. of (landing
iroops, and the 14th the whole moved for the
mcampment abou* 20 miles from the fort, when
:hey arrived on the 17th instant.
" They are now busy in building a garrifor
it this place, have cleared two acres of land, anc
are proceeding rapidly with the work. Youhavt
heard of the success of gen. Scott.—Gen. Wil
kinfon took thirty prisoners, who are now in For
Walhington ; they mean to exchange them foi
prisoners taken by the Indians.
" We expect eleven hundred Kentucky mi
itia here every day.
" By a letter received from Post St. Vincents
we are informed that 1500 warriors are waiting
r op iv at the Miami town, who are regularly (up
plied with provdions from Detroit. Ihe evi
fates seem to have pursued 11s; —may they in fu
:ute be auspicious.
" P.S. Yesterday ensign Cobb was fired upor
!>y the Indians coming up the Miami, but no
hurt."
Extract of a letter from
October 15.
" Whoever has read the ancient history o
:his l!l:\nd, and noted the crucl extirpation of the
ariginal inhabitants, would fuppole, from th<
horrid scenes that liave recently been tranfa£te<
here, that the era of the revenge of the ancien
Caribbs was arrived. Leaving others to accoun
for the present revolt of the Negro barbarians ii
this Illand as they please, I, for my part, fee no
thing more in it than a natural contequence ol
European despotism and monarchical vaniiy
The ambition to extend their pofleflions and au
thority into every region of the globe mud havt
been attended with a desire to fee thofc polfcf
fions peopled and become objects of wealth anc
commercial importance, "lo accomplifli theft
snds it was neceflary that men Ihould be procur
ed, suited by nature to the climate ; and the
fruits of whose labour was to be transferred frorr
:hemfelves to their matters. Hence the origir
of the African Have trade. I cannot, however
notwithstanding ir.y abhorrence of every specie:
as tyranny, bring myfelf to think, with ccrtair
enthuliallical characters in Great Britain, that at
mmediate emancipation of the Weft Indiz
[laves would be a defireable event. The effctt-
Lial prohibition of any further European or A
merican inteicouifewith ihe African coaftsoughi
:o fatisfy the fondeft fiiends of humanity foi
time to come. Men 111 the liiuation of tht
Blacks, mull gradually acquire the habits anc
:duca;i'on of freemen in any country, befort
hay can become uieiul or even innoxious mem
3ers of a cotnmun'ty. Ihe ehablilhment ol li
bertv and a free government in France, cannoi
ong, in the nature of things, be confined to thai
ungdom, but mud rapidly extend through Eu-
"ope ; the confcquence will be, that the lust of
European foreign domination will of itfelf cease,
md it will even become the interest of the infu-t
ar planters and their reformed or independent
governments, that the descendants of the unfor
unate Africans in the Weft Indies, should be
:omefn ; America, in general, will then af
ert her o vn rights, and make known to Europe
hat she is .he bell judge of pursuing such mea
iires as tend to her own peace, emolument and
lonorablc character among the potentates of the
:arth."
ExtraH of a Utter from Ley den, Sept. 20.
" The French King's acceptation of the Con-
Htution, has thrown a univeifal damp upen the
pirits of such anti-revoluiional Frenchmen asre
ide among us, and in our neighbourhood. All
rmanv would have been in motion long be
bre this time, to have restored the old tyranni
cal government, could the pulse of the people
nave been brought to beat in cpncert with the
fifties of the courts; but at present, we as much
the Emperor of China hefe as a counter
evolution in France. The two (exiled) French
princes Artois and Conde, not long lince folicit
:d a loan of three millions of florins at Amfter
lam, but did not fuccced. All they could pro
ure was about 275 thousand livres, for which
he diamonds and jewels of the Conde family
»vere mortgaged, valued at a million, sterling, and
A'hich now lie pawned at a public brokers' for re
demption. The Diet of Ratifbonne have drawn
ip a petition to the Emperor, to perfuadehim, if
poflible to re-inflate certain German Princes in
poffeflion of Alsace ; but the answer, it is laid,
has not yet been received."
PRICE of STOCKS.
Funded Debt.
Six per cents, - - - - 22f.
Three per cents, ... 12/7.
Deferred fix per cents, - - J3/4.
Unfunded Debt•
Final settlements, - - jq/I
Indents, - - - - 11J6»
Bank fubferiptions, - - 145, 146.
Translation of a Hand-Bill printed at Bay-
Qnne.
The SPEECH and OATH of the
KING OF THE FRENCH.
spoken in the National Assembly, on the 14th
September, 1791.
For the Acceptation of the Constitution,
Gentlemen,
I COIVIE here solemnly to confirm the accept •
ance I have given to the constitutional ad.—l
swear to'be faithful to the nation and to the laws,
and to employ all the power which is delegated to
me to the maintaining the constitution decreed by
the constituent national assembly, and causing the
laws to be executed. May this great and memo
rable era, be that of the re establishment of peace
and unity, and become the pledge of the happi
ness of the people, and of the prosperity of the
?mpire.
After the King had fubferibed the oath, the presi
dent made the following answer.
Inveterate abuses which had long triumphed
aver the good intentions of our best kings, and
which would still have continued to defy the au
thority of the throne, kept France under oppref
(ion.
The national assembly, entrusted with the wifh
*s, the rights and the power of the people, has,
by the deftru&ion of all abuf*es, re established the
solid foundations of public prosperity.
Sire, what the national assembly has decreed,
is ratified by the content of the people ; the m«ft
complete execution in all the parts of the empire,
attests the general assent. It defeats the weak
khemes of these whom discontent has to® long
rendered blind to their own interests. It promif
ssto your majesty, that you will no longer wifli
in vain lor the happiness of the French.
The national aflembly has nothing more to wish
for on this ever memorable day, wherein you
consummate in the midst of them, the mod so
lemn engagement—the acceptation of the consti
tutional royalty. It is the attachment of the
French-—it is their confidence which confers upon
yon this pure and refpedtable title to the faireft
:rown in the universe ; and that which fecurcs it
to you, is, fire, the inexhaustible authority of a
:onftitution freely decreed : it is the invincible
strength of a people, who has felt itfelf worthy of
liberty: it is the want of hereditary monarchy
which will always be indifpenfible to such a great
nation.
When your majesty, expe&ing from experi
ence the light it will throw upon the practical re
sults of the constitution, promises to maintain it
within and defend it against enemies from with
out,the nation relying on the justice of their rights,
and on the consciousness of their own strength and
courage, as well as on the earnestness of your co
operation, cannot fee any ground of alarm from
without, and will concur by its quiet confidence
in the quick success of its internal government.
How great to our eye 9, dear to our heart?, and
bow sublime will appear in our history, the era
jf this regeneration, which gives citizens to
France—a country to the French; to you as a
King, a new source of enjoyment and new fenfa
:lolls of happiness.
New-York, Nov. 18. On Wednesday night ,
departed this life, after a tedious and severe lll
nefs, Doctor Charles M'Knight, Profcfforof ana
:omy in Columbia college, and one of the mod
eminent (urgeons of this city—perhaps of these
United States.
In him a numerous family have loft an indul
gent perent. Society at large a ufeful member;
ind the vi&ims of disease, a ready and expeiiea
:ed physician.The DISTREST THEATRE.
[The amujimintt of the Theatre 'were fame timeflnct
■prohibit-: diuitbu: the lirrr.s of th* c'lty of Charles
ton, by an aEI of the, Legjlature of the fate cj
South-Carolina, In obedience to this ast all fuh
fequent Dramatic exhibitibr.s ivere removed to at
obscure bui'ding in the city Liberties, called Har
mony Hall. ThefollowingJlanzas owetbei
origin to 'he above ediEl.]
TJEALTH to the Mule !—and fill tbeglafs
JL JL Heaven grant her soon some better place
Than earthen floor and fabric mean,
Where disappointment ihades the scene
There as I by rumour led,
3 figh'd, and almost wiih'd her dead ;
Her visage ftain'd with many a tear,
No Hallam and no Wignell here !
But what could all their art attain?—
When pointed laws the ft.i,ge retrain
The prudent Mute obedience pays
To sleepy 'squires, that damn all plays.
- ,
Like thieves they hang beyond the town,
They {hove her off—to please the gown j—
Tl)o' Rome and Athens own'd it true,
The itage might m'end our morals too«
See, Mopfus all the evening fits
O'er bottled beer, that drowns his wits ;
Were Plays allow'd, he might at least
Elulh—and no longer a£t the beast.
See, Marcia, now from guardian free,
Retailing scandal o'er her tea :
Might ihe not come, nor danger fear
From Hamlet's sigh, or Juliet's tear.
The worli but aEls tbe Players'" part*—
(So fays the motto of their art)
That world in vice great lengths is gone
That fears to fee its pidlure drawn.
Mere Vulgar a&ors ne'er can please;
The flreets supply enough of these ;
And what can wit or beauty gain
When ileepy duilnefs joins their train ?
A State betrays a homely taftc,
By which the stage is thus difgrac'd,
Where, dreft in all the flowers of speech,
True virtue might her precepts teach.
Let but a dancing bear arrive,
A pig, that counts you four or five—
And Cato, with his moral strain
Shall strive to mend the town in vain.
*Totus Mundus agit Hijiricnem.
By AUTHORITY.
By the PRESIDENT* ofrbi UNI'TED STATE,
of AMERICA.
A PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS a Treaty of.Pence and Friend
Jhip between the United States and th
berckee nation of Indians, ivas made and conclude,
on the second day of the month of July lap 3 ar.,
whereas I have, by and with the advice and conjen
ef the Senate, in<due form ratified the said treaty
Now to the end that the fame be observed and per form
td with good faith on the part of the United States
J have ordered the said treaty to 6e herewith publijh
ed : an<j I do hereby enjoin and require all officer
of the United States, civil and military, and all othe
citizens and inhabitants ther eof, to govern themfelve
according to the said treaty, as they ivili anjioer tht
contrary at their peril.
Given under try band and the seal of the Ur.itei
States, in the city of Philadelphia, thiieleventi
day of November, in the Tear of ow Lort
one tboufand /even hundred and ninety-one, am
in tbe Jixteentb year of the fovereljnry and in
dependence of the United States.
(L. S.) G°. WASHINGTON.
By the President,
TH. JEFFERSON.
George Washington, President of the UniCec
States of America.
To all to whom these Presents shall come, greeting
HERE AS a Treaty of Peace and Friend/hip be
tween the United States of America, and tb>
Cherokee nation of Indians, was made and condudet
on the second day of the month of .July las, by Wil
liam Blount, Governor in and over the territo
ry of the United States Joutb of the river Ohio, anc
Supcrir.tendant of Indian affairs for the South
ern diJlriEi; tvbo was duly autbcnfed thereto, 01
tbe one part; and the Chiefs and Warriors of th.
Cherokee nation, wbcje names are hereunto signed, a
the other part; which treaty is in the form aru
words following :
A Treaty of Peace and Friendihip, made an<
concluded between the Pre/ident of the Unite*
States of America, on the part and behalf o
the said States, and the underligned Chiefs ant
Warriors of the Cherokee NatioiT of Indians
on the part and behalf of the said Nation.
THE parties being defirousof eftablifliing per-
peace and friendfliip between th<
United States and the said Cherokee nation, an(
the citizens and members thereof, and to removi
the causes of war by afcertaioing their limits, anc
making other necessary, just and friendly arrange
ments : The President of the United States, bj
William Blount, Governor of the territory of th<
United States of America south of the river Ohio
and fuperintendant of Indian affairs for the South
ern diftridt, who is velted with full powers for thef<
purposes, by and with the advice and consent o
the Senate of the United States : And the Che
rokee nation by the underligned chiefs and warri
ors representing the said nation, have agtced ti
the following articles, namely ;
Art. r. There stall be perpetual peace and
Viendlhip between all the citizens of the Unitec
States of America, and all the individuals com
>ofjng the whole Cherokee nation of Indians.
Art. 2. The undersigned chiefs and warriors,
"i themselves, and all parts of the Cherokee na
ion, do acknowledge themfelves,and the said Che
okee nation, to be under the protection of the Uni
ed States of America, and of no other fovereigi
vhofoever j and they also.stipulate that the said Che
okee nation will not hold any treaty with anyfo
eign power, individual state, or with individual:
>f any state.
Art. 3. The Cherokee nation lhall delivei
:o the Governor of the territory of the Unilec
States of America, south of the river Ohio, on 01
Defpre the firft day of April next at this place, a 1
;erfons who are now prisoners, capturtd by them
: rom any part of the United States: And' th«
United States (hall on or before the,fame day, and
it the fame place, reftoie co the Cnerokeesj ai!
he prisoners now in captivity; which the citizens
)f the United States havi captured from them.
Art. 4. Thp boundary between the citizens c:
:he United States and the Cherokee nation, rs an
hall be as follow#' i Beginning at the top of th<
Currahee mountain, where the Creek line paflei
t j thence a direst line to Tugelo river j thenc<
jorth e?ft to the mountain, and over thi
ame along the South-Carolina Indian boundary t<
:hc North-Carolina boundary j thence north to i
joint from which a line is to be extended to tht
iver Clinch, that /hall pal's the Holfton at th<
idge which divides the waters running into Litth
Kiver, from those running into the Teneflee;
hence up the river Clinch to Campbell's line, arte
>long the fame to the topof Cumberland mountain :
hence a direct line to the Cumberland river when
he Kentucky road crolTes it,thence down the Cum
>erland river to a point from which a fouth-wefl
ine will strike the ridge which divides the water!
Cumberland from those of Duck river, fortv
niles above Nashville j thence down the said ridg
0 a point from whence a south welt line will ftrik
he mouth of Duck river.
And in Order to preclude for ever all dispute
elative to the said boundary, the fame lhall beaf
ertained, and marked plainly by three person
ippointed on the part of the United States, an«
hree Cherokees on the part of their nation.
And in order to extinguish for ever all claims 0
he Cherokee nation, or any part thereof to an
>f the land lying to the right of the line abovi
lefcribed, beginning as aforefaid at the Currahei
nountain, it is hereby agreed, that in addition t<
he consideration heretofore made forthefaid land
he United States will cause certain valuable good
o be immediately delivered to the undorfigne*
hiefs and warriors, for the use of their nation
md the said United States will also cause the fun
>f one thouland dollars to be paid annually to th<
aid Cherokee nation. And the underfignet
hiefs and warriors, do hereby for themselves a'nc
he whole Cherokee nation, their heirs and de
cendants, tor confidentions above mention
d, releaje, quit claim, rtl\r,qu\(h and cede, all th<
and to the right ot the line delcribed, and begin
ling as aforefaid.
A rt » 5* It is stipulated and agreed, that th<
itizens and inhabitants of the United States, fyal
lave a free and unmolested use of a road ffoir
Nafhington diftria to Mero diltria, and of th<
»avigation of the Teneflee river.
Art. 6. it is agreed on the part of the Chero
tees, that the United States lhall have the folc
,nd exclusive right of regulating their trade.
Art. 7. The United States l'olemnly guarante<
o tne Cherokee nation, all their lands not herebv
eded.
Art.%. If any citizen of the United States.
>r other person not being an Indian, (hall fettle or
iny of the Cherokee's lands, such person (hall for
eit the proteaion of the United States, and tht
-herokees may puniih him or not, as they pieafe.
Art. a. No citizen or inhabitant of the Uni
ed States, (hall attempt to hunt or destroy tht
;ame on the lands of the Cherokees,—not fhal
iny citizen or inhabitant go into the Cherokee
:ountry, without a passport firft obtained from tht
Governor of some one of the United States, or ter
ltorial diftrias, or such other person as the Pre
ident ot the United States may from time tc time
tuthorize to grant the fame.
Art. 10. If any Cherokee Indian or Indians,
>r person residing among them, or who (hall take
efuge in their nation, (hall steal a horse from, or
ommit a robbery or murder, or other capital
.■me, or. any citizens or inhabitants of the United
■sates, the Cherokee nation (hall be bound to de
iver him or them up, to be punished according to
he laws of the United States.
Art. 11. If any citizcn or inhabitant of the
n 1 ted States, or of either o( the territorial dif
nOs of the United States, lhall go into any town,
ettlement or territory belonging to the Chcro
cees, and (hall there commit any crime upon, or
telpafs against the person or property of anv
jeaceable and friendly Indian or Indians, which
f commuted within the jurifdiaion of any State,
r within the jurifdiaion of either of the said dif.
;nas, against a citizen or white inhabitant there
of, would be punishable by the laws of such state
jr diftria, such offender or offenders, (hall be
lubjea to the fame punishment, and lhall be pro
eeded against in the fame manner, as if the of
fence had been committed within the jorililiaforf
t,lc Sta te or diftria to which he or they may be
long, against a citizen or white inhabitant thereof.
sirt. 12. ]n cafe of violence on the persons or
property of individuals of either party—nei
her retaliation or reprisal (hall be committed bj
:.ie other, until fatisfaaion (hall have been de
manded of the party of which the aggressor is, anc
mail have been refufed.
Art. T 3* The Cherokees shall give nqtice tc
the cicize ns of the United States, ofanydefign;
A ch they may know, or fufpeft to be fortaea in
any neighboring tribe or by any petfon whatever
against the peace and interest of the United States,
Art. 14. That the Cherokee nation may b<
led to a greater degree of civilization, and to be
come herdsmen and cultivators, instead of remain
ing in a state of hunters, the United States wil
from time to time furniih gratuitously the said na
tion with ufeful implements of hGfbandry, an<
further to allift the said nation in i'o defuablc
-J
pursuit, and at the fame time to eftabfifh a certaii
mode of communication, the United States wil
lend such, and so many persons to fefide iti fai
nation as they may judge proper, not exceedin
four in number, who ihall quality themfclves t
ast as interpreters.-—These persons shall hav
lands assigned by the Cherokees for
themfelve? and their fucceflors in office—but the
fliall be precluded exercising any kind of traffic
Art* i <j. All animosities for past grievance
shall henceforth cease, and the contracting partie
will carry the foregoing Treaty ihtofull executioi
with all good faith and sincerity.
Art. 16. This Treaty ihall take eflfeft and b
obligatory on the contracting parties, as soon a
:he fame {halt have been ratified by the Prefiden
the United States, with the advice and confen
)f the Senate of the United States.
IN WITNESS of all and every thing herein de
ermined between the United States of America
ind the whole Cherokee nation, the parties hav
lereunto set their hands and seals, at the treat
jround on the bank of the Holfton, near th
nouth of the French Broad, within the Unite
State*, thisfecond day of July, in the year ofou
Lord, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one
Wm. BLOUNT,
Governor in and over the Territory of th
United States of America south of the ri
ver Ohio, and Superintendant of India
Affairs for the fouthein diftridi*
I'huleoah, f or the Boots, L. s
i juollecuttah, -f or hanging Maw, l. s
Occunna, f or the Badger, l. s
Enoleh, -f* or black Fox, L. s
tfontuaka, f or the Northward, L . s
Tekakifka, "f* 2
-iii'tloh, f or Kinpfifher, l. s
Tuckafeh, f or Tarrapin, l. s
Cateh, -f- l. s
Cunnochatutloh, -f- or the Crane, l. <
-auquillehanah, -|* or the Thigh, l. ;
-helqpotteloneh, -j* or yellow Bird, L. s
-1 ickafawtehe, -f- or Cnickafaw killer, l. s
1 ufkegatehe, f or Tufkega killer, l. s
Culfatehe, f Lt £
Tinkfhalene, -f- L# s
iawutteh, f or Slaye catcher, l. s
*ukuah, f
Jofenaleh, -f- L# ,
f or rising Fawn, L. «
Canetetoka, f or standing Turkey, L
ifonewatleh, f or Bear at home, L .
-oagWill.f '
"vunofkefkie, f or John Watts, L . ,
Menetooyah, for bloody Fellow, L " ]
-huquilatague, f or Double-head, j
f or big Acorn, L <
l'oowayelloh, f or bold Hunter, L \ \
Uhle-oonoyehka, + or middle striker, l' ■
•vinnefah, f or Cabin,
Fullotehe, f or two killer, L "
•iooloufke, f or ftopt still, , ' i
•vulfatehe, f [']
f the little Torkey's Son, i'. :
1 alohteike, "f- or Upfetter, L
+ or Otter Lifter,
vefhukaune, f or Hie Reigns, L ." ,
Toonaanailoh, -j~
feefteke, f or common Disturber, r' !
lobin Mc. Clemore,
ikyuka, f £ '
[ohn Thompson, Interpreter.
|ames Cery, Interpreter.
Done in presence of
3an. Smith, Secretary of the Territory ©ft}
United States, South of the River Ohio.
Thomas Kennedy, of Kaintuckey.
'as. Robertfon, of Mero Diftridl.
Claiborne Watkins, of Virginia,
no. M'Whitney, of Georgia.
— Fauche, of Georgia.
Titus Ogden, North-Carolifla.
fohn Chilholm, of Walhington Diftrift.
Robert King.
Thos. Gegg.
Now Know Ye, That I having seen and con
idereH the fa id treaty, do by and with the advic
ind cohfent of the Senate of the United Statei
crept, ratify, and confirm the lame, and every ar
e andclaufe thereof • In testimony whereof,
'ave caused the seal of the United States to b
ereunto affixed, and £g„ed the fame with m
and.
Given in the city of Philadelphia, the eleven
day of November, in the year of our Lord
one thousand seven hundred and ninetj-one
and in the (ixteenth year of the fovereignt
and independence of the United States. '
( L - s 0 G®. WASHINGTON.
By the President,
r H: JEFFERSON.
This day is Publiflied,
By CHILDS and SWAINE,
In one Volume Octavo ;
[ p nce One Dollar and a half, the (mail Edition.
and One Dollar and three quarters the large,]
THE
LAWS of the United States.
Collated with, and by the original Roll:
in rhe Office of the Secretary of State.
"Wfith a copious INDEX ; or'
A complete DIGEST of the LAWS
(Making 56 pages:)
Executed by an eminent Law Character.
To obtain this ufeful and neceffuy Fart of th.
Work complete, has retarded the Publication.
Tkn Volume comprizes the Arts of the Thre
ScJ/ion, of the firfi Congrtf,. „lj 0> thc Fedrra
C.njlnumn and the Tr,a-ie s betnveen the Unite,
States and Foreign Nation,-Tether tvith an At
pendix, containing the Declaration of Indcpend
fee, andjundry Ordinances and Refo'l-ves of Un
grejs under rhe Confederation.
Sold by Childs and S-waine, No. 210, Hirh
Jlrcet, Thomas Doifon Jofrpb Cruk&ank, L
Robert Campbell, Vhuaie phia.
October 25.
ROBERT SMOCK,
Woollen Draper & Mercer,
Has jufi received by the Jhip Pigou, from London,
and for sale at his Store, on the north eafi comer
of Market and Third flrcets, Pbiladtlphij,
AN ELEGANT ASSORTMENT OF
SUPERFINE and super broadcoths, in almost
every colour.
Ladies fuperfine habit cloths, in the most fafhion
able colours.
Superfine caiTimers, do.
Do. and super elastic striped cloths.
Milled drabs and hunters cloths.
A variety of fancy waiftcoating, in silk, silk and
cotton, filjt moleskin, caiTimers printed and
tamboured, and fuperfine striped Spanish toili
nets.
Mens black fattins, florentines, and fllk pfuriell'as
of superior qualites
Silk, silk and cotton, cotton and worsted
aflorted.
Sattins and mantuas, a beautiful variety.
Superfine rattinets, with a large colle&ion of best
trimmings for cloths, &c. of every quality.
Moreens, joans spinning, durants and caliman
coes.
H airbines and camblets, &c.
9-8 wide fuperfine Marseilles quiltrng with bor
ders.
Marseilles bedquilts and cotton counterpanes, 9-4
to 12-4.
Flanders bedbunts and bedtickings.
A beautiful variety of chintzes and cottons.
All elegant aiTortment of yard wide furniture
chi nrzes, in beautiful colours and patterns,
witfe a large variety of furniture cottons.
Velveteens, velvets, corduroys, thicksets, fancy
cords, stockinets, royal ribs, fattinets, hair
plushes, Bcc. 6cc.
Striped andgrev, twilled and plain Bath coatings.
Rose blankets afiorted.
ROBERT SMOCK has also for Sale, a gre -t
Variety of GOODS of the best quality in their
several kinds. He ptefumes it is unnecessary to
be more particular in the enumeration, and that
it is fufficienf to fay the aiTortment is very gene
ral and extensive, confiding of almost every arti
cle in his line of bulinefi.—Being desirous of giv
ing entire fatiira&ion to thofe'who may be pleased
to favour him wrth their custom, as well
as cf meriting a continuance of thofec;f
tomers, whole favours he has hitherto experien
ced, he flatters himfelf the cbcapr.cfs of his Goods
will be the best means of effe&ing his wiflies.
T~O O SOLD, iTv
JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Fear-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
Which may be seen tvery day, until 5 p.m
Among them are the following :
Folio. Homer, Xenophon, Plato, Plutarch,
Eufebius, Sozomen, Theodoret, Virgil, Horace,
Livy, Tacitus, Pattrculus, Pliny, Concordant
tia Lat. Concordantia Gr. Thesaurus Ciceronis,
Biblia Junii & Tremellii, Bible de Martin,
Wells's Maps, Scapulas—P havorini—Martinii—•
Hoft'manni Lexica., Vofiii Etymologiton, Anti
quit. Ecclef. Britannicafe, &c.
i Quarto. Pindar, Cyropaedia, Bently's Ho
race, Terence and Phaedrus, Ovid, Juvenal,
Manilius, Ciceronis op. om. Csefar, Suetonius,
Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Vofiii Ars
Gram. Cluverii Geographia, Justinian Code, &c»
OElavo st'infra. Homer, Anacreon, Arifto
phanea, Lopginus, Theopbraflu s, Hcfiod, Po'etse'
minores Gr. Ifocrates, Phala'ris, 'various editions
of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullusy
Plautus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flac
cus, Aufonius, Buchanan, Salluft, Curtius
Florus, Juftin, Val. Maximus, A. Gellius
Hid. August. Scriptores, Englijh and French
Tranjlations of some of the Clalfics, a g: eat -va
riety of Greek and Latin Grammars. &c. &c.
Catalogues may be had of MeflVs. Rice fe
Co. Bookfeliers, Market-street, or of
Oft. 31. JOHN CAR" V.
G EORG ITU'ETD E
HAS FOR SALE,
At his Stores 01 Walmjt-Street Wharf,
A FEW pipes cf 3 ami 4 years (fid bills / ex
change Madeira WINE, which be nv 'ill tiif
pojeof by the pipe, hogshead or quarter cask.
London n:arket Madeira WIN F, 5 andbyears old.
Old Sherry WINE of the firj} quality, by the
hogshead or quarter cask.
Three ard 4 years old Lisbon WINE, cf a su
perior quality to ivhat is generally imported, by the
pipe, quarter cask, or larger quantity
Choice old Ccni.ic B RANDY, by the pipe, tierce,
or larger quantity.
Aj :<w quarter chefis offirfi quality U.Jon TEA.,
He has / ij} received by the Loxlcy mafier,
fom London, a few quarter casks of old Madeira
WINE—And
By the brig Mercury, capt, Stevens, from Dub
lin, a few boxes of Irifb LINENS, low priced
and well assorted : a few bales of Red and White
FLANNELS, and Jome GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDLES of the
sirs} quality, and But ington PORKofprime quality.
He has also to difpeje cf a quantity of dress d
Whve Oak STAVES.
He means to keep a confront fuppjy of Firfl Qua
lity 'Madeira and Lisbon WINES, and whoever
is pleased to favor him with ihtir cuftjm, may be
■ajfurtd of being well served.
He will through the W'inter a d Spring, buy
undrejj'ed HANDSPIKES. He is purcbafg
FLAXSEED aud BEES WAX, and Will &rve
the higheff Price for then:.
N. B. A few Hampers of excellent London
PORTER and Taunton ALE, jij} arrived cr.d
to be disposed cf. tf
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND SWAIN E,
lAT THEIR OFFICS, j .239, HiGH S'l k#*T,
NEAR SIXTH-8T RIIT,
PHILADELFHiA.