Vol. I.
For the National Gazette,
thoughts
ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF
AMI N T
IN THE UNITED STATES.
By THOMAS PAINE.
THE price of the machinery and the
exoence of labour are reServed tc
the conciufion. I proceed therefore tc
consider the Metals and the means o:
procuring them.
I begin with Copper. —This Met.,
is of too little value and of too much
bulk, to anfvver the purposes of coin ti
any great extent: About ten or twenty
thou'fand dollars worth of copper con
is, 1 believe, as much as can be circu
lated in America.
Copper may be had in America
theaoer than in any other "part ot the
world, and in greater quantities thai;
are neceflary for coining. I his cop
per comes from the vVelt-Indies, it is
the old boilers stills, and other utensils
which being worn out, the Planter:
have no uSe for the old copper. They
have not, as I am informed, the mean;
ofmelting it up, or do not pive them
selves thetrouble to do it, beiides w;ucli
there is a duty of 3d sterling per lb. 011
landing it in England.
Considerable quantities of this cop
per have, since the war, been bought lr
New-York, for 6d. per lb. York cur
rency ; but supposing ten pounds of 11
be bought for one dollar, it will conle
quently follow that ten pound weigh,
of copper is only equal to about on<
ounce weight of Silver ; if therefor,
one dollar worth of copper was to b<
divided into a hundred parts or cents,
each cent wculu be i>hdvs the wcigiii
and size of a silver dollar. Two oppo
site difficulties, therefore, preSent them
selves with refpea to a copper coinage :
the one is, that to give the coins, 01
cents, the intrinsic value they ought to
have by weight, they will be too heavy
and bulky for the use they are intended
for ; the other is, that to make them
light enough to be convenient, they
will not have intrinsic value enough tc
pass, any more than half dollars woulc
pass for dollars.
The proportionate or relative value
of silver to gold, is about 16 to one
that is, 16 ounces of Silver is about the
value of one ounce of gold, but the re
lative value of copper to silver, is frorr
lEOto 140 to 1. which makes them toe
remote to represent each other in the
ihape of coin convenient for the pocket.
Nobody would think of carrying brats
pound weights about him for coin, ye)
he must carry copper in that propor
tion.
The metal convenient for a coin un
der the silver coin, should not dihci
more in its value from silver than filvei
does from gold—and if it differed ftil
less it would be better : but as the rela
tive values now fund, the diifercnce
encreafes where convenience require,
it should dccreafe. Bnt as no such .
metal, which convenience requires, ex
ills naturally, the question is whethei
it will anlwer to produce it by compo
sition.
Of compositions, three methods pre
sent themselves— lft. Mixing silver ane
coppcr in fufion—2d. Plating the cop
per with silver—3d. Plugging the cop
per with silver. But against all thek
there are very capital objeftiono
Wherever there is ct want of fatisitic
tion there must necessarily be a want oi
confidence ; and this must always take
place in all compounded metals. There
1S alio a decrease in the intrinsic va
lue of metals when compounded ; one
Shilling worth of silver compounded
with one Shilling worth of copper, the
compofiticn is not worth two {hillings,
or what the metals were worth ,before
they were compounded, because they
must again be Separated to acquire theii
utmost value. ; nd this only can be done
By PHILIP FRENEAU.
r l HURS DA Y, November 17, 179*-
?.t a refiner's. It is not what the. coin
co'l to make, but what the coin is in
trinfi'cally worth when made ; that o.i
ly can give it currency in all cases.
Plugging copper with lilvei is the leail
detrimental to the intrinsic value of the
metals, because they are the eaueft fepa
rated ; but in all these cases the value oi
the silver put into the composition wil
be so predominant to the value of the
copper, that it will beratherabafe filvei
coin than a copper coin.
As therefore copper presents so man)
mcor.venienccs arising from its grea
bulk, and little value, and so small ar
ohjeft for establishing a mint (for peo
pie have learned the value of coppei
coin too well to take it as thev former!)
did) all the calculations for a mint muf
be made upon silver and gold, and what
ever may done in copper to be coniider
ed only as incidental.
It is i think pretty evident that cop
per has become a coin not from the wan
or scarcity of silver (because the value
of all the copper coin in any nation i:
but a trifle, and never considered ir
the estimation of national property) but
because silver does not admit of beini
divided and sub-divided down into fuel
small pieces as to contain only the value
of-a copper or a cent. It is this onl)
which has induced a recourse to cop
per.
In England, the lowefl silver coin i:
fix-pence, which is equal to twelve cop
pers, and therefore the resource to cop
perS for change, or for the purchase o
small articles under the value of fix
pence is frequently recurring ; but i
in America we were to coin iilver as lovi
as the twentieth part of a dollar, whicl
would be pieefcs of five cents, the occa
lion for coppers would be very mud
diminished, and such pieces would b<
nearly of the size of the French silver fu
lous. I think the policy is in favor o
keeping as much silver coin as we can ir
the country ; and this is one of my mo
tives for excluding copper as much a
pofiible.
Some denomination under the fiv
cent pieces would (till be necelfary—
but as the occasions would be diminish
ed, a small quantity would be fufficient
It is conveniince only that ought to b;
considered with refpeft to copper coin
age, and not money or riches. It wa:
going on this lalt idea instead of the sirs
one that entangled the former Congref
and the several States. They attemptec
to do what no othernation ever though
of doing, and which is impossible to dc
—that of exalting copper into nationa
wealth. Nature .has fixed its boundary
and we must keep to it.
It is therefore something by whict
to divide the five cent silver pieces, tha
appears tome the only thing to be con
fidered with refpeft to a copper coin
age. This maybe done either by coin
ing copper cents of the size and jntrin
sic value they ought to be, which wil
prevent their being counterfeited, 01
depreciated, or to coin or stamp fmal
copper pieces, as a fort of treasury notes
or notes of the mint, of the nominal va
lueofone, two, and three cents, to be
exchanged, if any person chufes to ex
change them, at the treasury or the min
for silver. These will be more durable
,than paper tickets, and capable of beinj;
extende'd over the continent withoui
the danger of wearing out ; and people
will not compare the value of them b)
the metal they contain, but by the ob
ligation to exchange them for silver i:
required. To prevent their fceirfg coun
terfcited they should not be a tendei
for any thing above five Cents, ot
more than five in any one payment .
As they would be merely for the pur
pose of dividing the silver cents by, and
not for the purpose of supplying the
place of silver com in large quantities,
but the mint or the treasury should al
ways exchange them to any amount,
though die amount can never be much
at eny one time.
To give these rotes the opportunity
sfgetting into circulation no fader, nor
in greater quantities than the occalions
r or them require, the mint should not
ilTue them in payment, but have them
in readiness for merchants, fhop-keep
rrs, &e. to fetch away by tale in ex
rhange for silver or gold. This used tc
ae the way the copper coinage at the
:ower of London got into circulation
Every shop-keeper knew where to gc
to get ten or twenty shillings worth.
Congrcfs could fuflain no inconveni
:nce, nor run any risk in exchanging
hose pieces for iilver whenever thev
should be prcfented, because the value
of them in silver would be deposited
whtn they were ,fi rft taken away. The
difference between coining cents of
their full value by weight, which they
nuft have if they are to depend on
:heir own worth for a currency, and
:oif ing coppei notes, whose value is tc
iep<;nd upon their being exchangeable
for Silver at the mint, is, that the firfl
if these methods is more than double
the expcnce of the last, and the conve
nience to the public not so great, not
:he security so good. If twenty thou
sand dollars worth of nominal cents 01
notes were coined, the saving in meta'
and workmanflup would be upwards oi
ine-half, and Congress would have the
nominal value of them realilid in silver
This difference between the two me
thocis is equal to the firft year's expenct
in fcftabliming a mint. To confide]
copper only as change, or as a mediurr
Dy which to divid: the silver coin
md to permit it to comc out no faftei
than it shall be called for, will alway:
prevent inconvenience in the coppei
coinage. The contrast for ioo,coc
of coppsr coinage, is
I believe, ten times more than can b'
circulated, because it will only circu
late as change. Of the profits whicl
the contra&ors calculated upon, I fcn<
you a specimen upon fix hundred weigh
Df copper.
500 wt of Weft-India copper in
utensils, at 8d pi. lb. Yoik, oi
6d lawful money - - £ o i
Melting, Cajting, and plating.
Four hands at calling, r -fC> - £o 100
Qne hand at plating - - 030 >-
50 bufhcls coal - - 0105
Salt - - -010
MolaGes - - - - o to
1 5 1
Coining.
One man dealing and boiling o 26
Four at the cu ting mill 2/6 o 10 o
Fiiteen at flamping do. 1176
2 10 c
Six fi.filings the dollar £1% 5 «
Three English coppers new from the
mint at the tower (Londotr) weigh 1
ounce avoirdupoile—cofifequently lib.
wt. copper coins /8 coppers, and 600
wt.coins 28,800, which at 108 to the
dollar is /~80 00. All these estima
tions are at 6s the dollar. From this
may very easily be calculated the pro
fits which the co'ntra&ors expe&ed to
make upon £ 100,000. The cxpence
of the machinery is to be added, as I
have only Hated the manual expence
and materials.
Quitting this part of the fubjeft, I
come to make some considerations on
the silver coin.
Opportunities for procuring silver
and gold for coining do not present
themselves like those for copper ; but
they undoubtedly would prelent them
selves more frequently if a mint was
established. As every nation puts some
value upon its coin, the coin passes for
more than the metal is worth—if, there
fore, we are charged for the expence
of making Spanifli dollars, we had bet
tar make dollars for ourselves, provided
we can procure the silver in bars. But
until we have a.mint the importation of
silver will continue to be made in coin,
because what can a merchant do with
silver or gold in bars or ingots where
there is no mint.
Numb. 6.
It therefore rests to know whether
silver in bars or gold in ingots, or any
other way not coin, can be procured
cheapcr than in coin, and what the dif
ference is.
The most effe&ual method to acquire
this knowledge and to procure silver in
bars, is to c.'lablifh a mint, and to de
liver to every importer of bars, or other
nerfon, the nett produce in coin which
iiis bars shall produce.
The price of silver in bars at the bul
lion-office in the bank (London) is
t;f i 1-2—the price of silver in new
Mexican dollars is af\ 1 1-2 —the dif
ference is 2d. or the 27th part of a dol •
lur. It is hardly to be supposed that
we pay to the amount of this difference
at the Havannah or clfewhere in re
ceiving dollars instead of silver unma
nufactured into coin—if we do, we pay
ibove four times the price we can ma
lufadture the coin for ourielves, pro
vided we can procure the silver in that
proportion.
Twenty-five men will be able to com
plete 4.000 dollars per day from the
jars. A million of dollars, coin
id within the space of about a year
and a half, at one cent per dollar, will
pay all the exper.ee of labor, and the
cricc of machinery r.eceffiny for such
111 operation, after which the expence
per dollar will diminish, provided the
men are kept employed.
The following is given to me as a tole
rable proportionate ellimate of the ex
pence of coining copper,' silver and
»old, into cents, dollars an d half-joes ;
The labor ot 25 men will
:oin, pet day, about - - 10,000 coppers,
or 4,000 dollars,-
Or 2,803 half-joes.'•
Jsy this it apnears that the expence
of coining copper is aTj'ouf forty times
greater than that of filvei", and about
two hundred times greater than that of
gold. This furnifhes an additional
reason against copper coinage.
It may perhaps bs asked, that if the
importer of silver in bars is to receive
the exacl produce of his bars from the
mint, in coid, where will be the ad
vantage ? I answer, that the advantage
in the firft. inflance will be to the im
porter, becaule he gets more dollars for
his cargo than he would by receiving
dollars at the place of sale, and this is
his inducement to bring in bars. The
advantage in the lecond infl nice, is'to
the whole country, beeaufe it makes a
greater quantity of money than there
would be by importing the filtfer in
coin. If the difference is 1747 th in a
dollar, and bars can be procured in
stead of Spanifii dollars, the increase o!'
silver money in the country would be
as 112 is to 108.
There is another circumstance by
which money would increase in the
country if a mint were ellablifhed,
which is from the old silver plate
which is now sent to England, and it is
not improbable that lome old silver
plate might come from the Well-Indies.
But until there is a mint, we muff re
main ignorant of the refourcesby which
silver and gold are to bs obtained.
The whple apparatus of a mint
can be made in America. The only
thing neceflary to import wil! be a
Imall quantity of caft-fleel, which is
an article not made in America.
The following is a tolerable efli'mate
of the cxpence of as much machinery
as will be fufticient to begin with, as
it can occafionaliy be employed in gold,
silver, and copper,
1 coining null -- 4 'ioDols.
2 cutting mills - - 180
1 plating mill for copper - 270
1 do. for silver - - 180
1 do lor gold - - 180
1 feti of ingots, cad-Heel, fnull
tools, See, -- - B*.°
1500
Coining is a new b'.ifmefsln Americ.-y
rhofe who have j. ro'pofed cdntr?.£is,knew, eirtier of themf; Ives., or from thol*
who were to execute, what they were: doing
hut ihey supposed Congrefh to know nothing o
the mutter. Accident and a turn for mechanic
have thrown me into A knowledge of tiiet
plans, and the profits they expected to make.
Whenever CongVefs goes into this biifmefs i
will be bed to doit on their own account. Th<
experience will cost Something, but it will be
worth obtaining, arid the cheapest way of ob
tinning it. The fa£l is, that the American coin
eis can afford to manufaflure coppers and fenc
them to England cheaper than the English coin
■ : tan fend them to America. In England
copper is about lod or 101-2 sterling, per lb,
but o!d copper from the Wclt-tndies is not hall
that price. When copper coining firlt began in
the New-England dates, a person concerned in
that buliuefs has fmce told me, that he lent hi;
lon to the Well-Indies to fee after copper- —thai
in Ihe polfcition of one person, at Providence,
he found upwards of 53 tons, which was o'fered
him at the rate of for a dollar. When il
is confideied how great the exportation of cop
per utenlils mult annually be from England to
the islands, and that they are a drug after they
arc worn out, and have no market for the old
copper, but in America, it will be easy to ac
count for the plans, schemes and proposed con
tfe is thai have been lately set on foot.
In contemplating the extent of a mint, I
carry my mind a little further than the business
of coining. The introdu&ion of such a machi
nery as coining requires, will fervc to bring for
ward thole kind of arts which are contiefted with
it, such as making buttons of vauous kindi. 1 ht
mint may alio be anAlfayoffice for wrought plate,
which will conliderably contiibute towards de
fraying the expence of the mint, at lead it will
be a convenient appendix to it—and the having
an Alfav office will piomote the manufactory ot
plate in America, and prevent that branch of
hulinefs going to England, which it now does
from the want of that confidence in the puiity
ofthe metal which an A flay office would give.
An AlFav office is much wanted in Philadelphia.
Before the war a bill was biought into the as
sembly to appoint an Aflay matter, but the Gov
ernor refufed palling the bill unless he had the
;:j poiritment ot the person, and the matter
dropt, and has not been lince revived —But it
ought to be connertcd with the mint, as the
jianriard for metals comes properly into that de
partinent. The silversmiths who bring the plate
pay something for the flamp, and the office, as
well for the (elleras the buyerisa veiy neccflary
one.
PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, November 14.
Fetitions were laid before the House
from Thomas Baker, Daniel Forbes, Jo
nathan Guv, Adam Koch, John M. Kin
fey, Thomas Napier, David Henderfon,
Alexander Low, and Isaac Robertfon,
praying compensations for wounds re
ceived, &c. in the army of the United
States, during the late w3r.
A petition of James Jackson, of Geor
gia, complaining of the undue elettion
and return of Anthony Wayne, one of
the Representatives in Congress from
said state, was read, as follows :
To the Hon. the Speaker and Members of the
House of Representatives of the United
States :
The petition of James Jackson, hum
bly sets forth,
THAT at the late election for mem
bers to represent the state of Georgia, in
your Hon. House for the prefcnt Gon
grefs, General Anthony Wayne and
vour Petitioner were candidates for the
Lower or Eastern Diftrift of the said
state : That an improper and undue re
turn has been made toyour House of the
said election : For, that the county elec
tion of Effingham, in favor of the said
Anthony Wayne, was illegal; there be
ing nine votes more than voters at the
fame, and two of the three perlons pre
siding thereat, not qualified magiflrates:
For that the return for the county of
Glynn, in favor ofyour petitioner, was
fupprelTed : For that a falle return was
made to the executive of the state, for
the county of Cambden, exceeding the
numbers of the legal poll, which a
mounted to twenty-five votes, by the
number of sixty-sour votes, all of which
were in favor of the laid Anthony
M'ayne, and added together with the
legal poll, far exceeds the whole number
of male free inhabitants, entitled to vote
therein : and for that an illegal or pre
tended poll was held, after the legal poll
was doled ; and on which illegal poll
the aforefaid falfe return was founded :
and th= legal return, after being duly
certified by the proper officers, was ei
ther suppressed or destroyed.
He therefore pravb your Hon. House
to poftponc any determination on the
"eturn of the laid Anthony Wayne, so
• uch reasonable period, as will enabli
your petitioner to bring forward fuel
proofs reiptcl ng the premises, as thi
nature of his eale may require :
Ana he will pray, &c.
James Jackson.
A petition of Moses Hazen, prayint
the settlement of a claim against the U
nited States, as an officer in the late ar
my.
A message was then received from thi
President by Mr. Secretary Lear, as sol
lows ;
United States, Nov. 11. 1791
Gentlemen of the Senate and of the
HouJ'e of Representatives,
I HA VE received frovi the Governor 0
Virginia, a resolution of ths General A fern
bly of that commonwealth, ratifying the frj
article of the amendments proposed by Con
%refs to the Conflitution oj the United States
a copy of whuh, and oj the letter accompany
ing it, I now liy before you..
Sundry papers relating to the purchase t
Judge Symmes, of the lands on the Grea
Miami, having been communicated to me, .
have thought it proper to lay the fame befor
you, for your information on that fubjeß.
GlO. WASHINGTON.
It was then ordered that the paper
■ elative to the Miami purchase, be re
fcrred to the committee for eflablifhini
offices for granting lands within the ter
ritories of the United States.
A petition of the diftiliers of fpizits ii
the town of Baltimore, -praying 3 re
duftion of duties, and revision of thi
law, laying duties on spirits diftillei
within the United States.—Referred t<
the Secretary of the Treasury.
A petition of Stephen Zacchau, o
Baltimore, praying relief from the pay
ment of additional tonnage and dutie:
on a vessel and cargo, the property o
said Zacchan, which, through mistake
was not registered according to law.—
Referred for examination to a fekt
committee, to report thereon.
A letter from the Secretary of Stats
was laid before the House, with his re
ports on thepetitions of William How
and Charles Colville. These being read
it wasordered thatfaidHow have leave
to withdraw his petition ; and that the
report relative to Colville's petition re
main for further consideration.
A letter and report were then reac
from the board of commi llioners foj
[cttling the accounts between the Unitec
States and individual states.
Several papers were presented by Mr
Parker, refpefting the disposal and fait
of the Marine Hospital in Vriginia.—
Referred for examination to the Secre
Lary of the Treasury.
A petition was laid before the House
from sundry inhabitants of the state o:
New-York holders of bills of crcdii
emitted by Congress in 1780, prayint
provision to be made for redeeming the
principal and ititereft of said bills.
A report of the Secretary at war was
taken up, on a former petition of Rufu:
Hamilton, upon consideration of which
it was resolved, that the prayer of the
petition cannot be granted.
Mr. Livermore, from the committee
of ele&ions, reported, that, the com
mittee having examined their certi
ficates, the following gentlemen are de
clared duly elected members of the
House, viz. Nathaniel Niles and Israel
Smith, from Vermont, Andrew Gregg
ind John W. Kittera, from Penr.fylva
nia, William Barry Grove and John
Baptist Afhe, from N. Carolina, Tho
mas Sumpter and Robert Barnwell from
South-Carolina, and Anthony Wayne
and Abraham Baldwin from Georgia.
According to the order of the day,
the House resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole on the schedule of the
enumeration of the inhabitants of the
United States ; Mr. Muhlenberg in the
:hair.
Mr. Findley and Mr. Giles urged a
/ariety of arguments in favor of a nu
merous representation, and concluded
with declaring for the ratio of one to
:hirty thousand.
Mr. Boudinot was against a very nu
merous representation , and moved't6
flrikei out of the bill the words " thirty
thousand," for the insertion of any
greater number that the House should
tix upon.
The committee rose, reported progress,
and alked leave to fit again.
Tuesday, Nov. 15.
The petition of John Davis was pre
sented and read, praying compensation
for services rendered as surgeon in the
army during the late war. Reforrec
for examination to the Secretary ai
War.
Mr. Sedgwick presented, from th'
rommittee appointed, a bill reipetlini
fugitives from juflicc, and from th
ervice of matters ; which being twic
read, was committed to a committee c
:he whole house on Friday next.
The house again resolved itfelf into
:ommittee of the whole on thefchedul
if enumeration, Mr. Muhlenberg ii
he chair—Motion before the house tha
he ratio of representation Ihould be on
or every thirty thousand inhabitants
.vith an amendment to flrike out th
ivords thirty thousand.
Mr. Page was for having the quel
ion decided by a general convention
ailed for the purpose. He confiderei
i numerous representation as the great
ft security of liberty in a jepublicai
jovernment, and questioned the pro
iriety of the number being reduced
:ven by a convention. He concludei
.vith exprefling his hopes that the a
nendment would be rejected.
Mr. Steele, thought that a numer
>us representation was not always th
riterion of {lability in national coun
ils. He said, there would be littl
langfir of corruption in the house whil
he present pure system of reprefenta
ion continued ; and that the large re
irefentation in the (late legislature
)ught not to be a rule for Congrcfs, a
t evidently precluded the necellity o
heir adopting a similar plan. H<
bought a large ratio the mofl eligible
is a member of a free assembly afway
:onliders himfclf the more refponfcbh
or his condu£l in proportion to thi
lumber that watch over him. This wa
>roved in the representatives of petti
>oroughs in England, who were eve
afier to be tampered with than the re
irefentatives of great cities.
Mr. Clarke, urged several argu
ncnts againfl a very numerou* rep re
entation, and hoped a larger ratii
vould be fixed on than one to thirty thou
and. Improper ele&ions (he oblerved
ire the great causes of any nation lofini
ts liberty ; and if Congress take car*
0 guard againfl abuses of this kind
uch a flep would operate much mon
powerfully againfl corruption than ai
:xorb:tant increase of representation
rie hoped no gentleman would confide
lim as a friend to ariflocracy for oppo
ing the ratio of one to thirty thousand
if, however, he had really caught th
iriftocratical infection, it had been finci
lis admiifion into the house.
Mr. Vining declared himfelf in fa
/ or of the ratio of one to thirty-four thou
and. He thought a trifling" differenc
n the number could not possibly afFe£
he liberties of America ; and as ti
:orruption in that house, he saw n<
jood grounds for laboring under ap
irehenfions of this kind.
Mr. Hillhouse, said there could h
10 danger of corruption, so long as th
right of election remains in the people
1 representation of eighty or one hun
ired members he thought amply fuffici
:nt for the preservation of liberty, an<
hat a larger representation would ra
her embarrass the government, thai
mfwer any valuable purpose.
Several other gentlemen having de
:lared their sentiments on the fubjei
it the ratio, Mr. Muhlenberg reported
hat the committee had come to a refo
ution thereupon, as follows :
Resolved, That the number of re
ireientatives shall, until the next enu
neration, be one for thirty thousand.—
The que ft ion being put, whether fai<
reiolution be agreed to by the house. i
■vas carried in the affirmative—yeas •>-
lays 23. ' i 0
she votes in the affirmative, are
Abraham Baldwin, Egbert Ben foil, Toh-
Brown, William Findley, Thomas Fitz
imons, Elbridge Gerry, William B
James Gordon, Andrew Gre op
Samuel Griffin, Daniel Heifter, Danie
liuger, Israel Jacobs, Aaron Kitchei
John W. Kittera, John Lawrar < e
Amafa Learned, Richard Bland L e
James Madison, Andrew Moore, F
derick Augustus Muhlenberg, Willi
Vans Murray, John Page, jofiah Pu
ker, Joshua Seney, Upton Shcridin,
Ihomas Sumpter, Peter Svlvcfkr. "I ho
mas Tredwell, Thomas Tuder Tu< <
Abraham Venable, Jeremiah v adl
worth, Anthony Wayne, Ait inde
White, and, Francis Willis.
Those who voted in the negativ. ar;
Fisher Ames, John Baptifl A the. Ro
bstt Barnwell, Elias Boudinot, Shear
jafhub Bourne, Benjamin Bourne, A
braham Clarke, Nicholas Gilman, Ben
jamin Goodhue, William Barry Grove,
James Hillhoufe, Samuel Livermore,
Nathaniel Macon, Nathaniel Niles,
Theodore Sedgwick, Jeremiah Smith,
If'rael Smith, William Smith, John
Steele, Jonathan Sturges, George
Thatcher, John Vining, and Artemas
Ward.
Upon which it was ordered, that Mr.
Page, Mr. Murray, and Mr. Macon be
ippointed to bring in a bill pursuant to
he said resolution.
Mr. Baldwin moved for the appoint
nent of a special committee on the pe
ition of General James Jackson ; but
;t being observed that the prayer of the
aid petition extended no farther than
to a fufpenlion of proceeding in conse
quence of the return of Gen. Wayne ;
md that the House had nothing to do
in the bufmefs until the petitioner
:ame forward with proofs—The motion
was withdrawn, and the petition order
:d to lie on the table.
Wednesday, Nov. i 6.
A petition was lead from the mer
;hants and distillers of Salem (M.J pray
ng some alterations in the law of excise
—referred to the Secretary of the Trea
ury.
Petitions were presented from Tho
rns Foulk, Eleazer Healy, and
iieach, praying compensation for ler
/ices rendered in the army during the
ate war—Referred to the secretary at
.var.
A memorial presented by Mr. Brown
rom the free inhabitants of Kentucky,
elative to grievances from the excise
aw, by reaion of their being debarred
'rom navigating on the river Mifliftp
)i, and praying,in consequence thereof,a
ufpenfion of the law, until the naviga
ion of said river is opened.
Referred to thefecretary of the treafu
y for information.
A motion was then made for refer
ing to the secretary of the treasury, the
jetition of certain public creditors who
oaned money from September, 1777,
0 March, 1778. —This motion was ne
gatived ; as also a motion for referring
t to a committee of the whole House
t was then ordered to lie on the table.
Ihe petition of sundry citizens of
S.*ew-York, holders of bills of credit,
:mitted by Congress in 1780, was called
ip ; and on motion referred to the fe
:retary of the treasury.
A motion by Mr. Baldwin, that the
petition of Gen. Jacklon be referred to
1 ipecial committee, to report thereon—■
his was negatived.—lt was then moved
-O be lefcrred to the committee for con
:efted elections—this was agreed to.
Adjourned.
Extraßfrom I. s Argus Patriote.
" Having lived to fee the liberty of the press
111 England, it is with peculiar pleflfure I
can tell you, that I have also lived to fee it re
vive in France. The carcase, indeed, I have
left behind me in England, for worms and in
fers to gnaw upon, and have come to feaft up
an a renovated body, which I here find to be
in every refpeft salutary. While the Conilitu
non ol France has been brought to perfection
in the rigorous school of public calamity, that
ol England is every day becoming more and
more corrupted. France is at this hour a coun
try the molt free of any in the univerfej sncient
prejudices are done away, and defpotihn has in
an agonyof pain yielded her lalt breath. Like
another Peter the hermit (ofmfamous memory)
Burke has been preaching a crusade against
France, and has done, every thing in his power
to excite h s countrymen to extirpate our patri
ot It will not do ; the opinion of England is
fixed upon Mr. Burke's production. The na
tion delpifes it—Even the mintflers are vexed
with it tor its extravagance, and Payne has given
*t lts mortal wound. The world ought to know
however, that s Mr. Burke has received a Pen'
lion, and is a fjvorite at the Btitilh court. Af
tonifl.ing indeed is the Revolution that hastaken
place in that machine called Edmund Burke !—
Only a few yeais have elapsed since he exerted
all his powers and thundered forth in the British
lenate in favor of Wajhington and Liberty. Now
he is devoted to the court of Rome, to the des
potic German Princes, to the French clergy and
to every thing that is hottile to the Rights of
man ! Signed, '
C harles Iheveneau Moranpk,
(Formerly editor of the Courier de I'Europe.)
This Day are puhLiJhed,.
SERMONS,
Historical and Chara&eriftical :
By IVI LLI AM LI .V N, D. D.
■ne of the Minifitrs of the Reformed Protfjlant
Dutch Church. in the city of New-York.
iold by T. DOBSON & R. CAMPBELI.
[Pnce Three Quarters of a Dollar."]PHILADELPHIA,
November 17.
By the late arrivals from Europe w<
learn, that on the 14th of September
died at Weymouth, in England, the
Marquis de la Luzerne, Ambalfadoi
from the court of France. Also,
That a treaty of peace was signed be
tween the Ruffians and Turks, by which
the Emprel's retained the polTeflion oi
the city of Oczakow and the diftritt 01
country of that name : And
That accounts from India, mentior
that the army under Lord Cornwalli;
was fl ill pursuing Tippoo with consider
able success.
We expect shortly to lay before oui
readers authentic accounts of such im
portant matters as have transpired ir
Europe, fmce the date of our latest ad
vices.
Accounts from Jamaica, dated O&ober 1
mention exceeding heavy rains having fallen it
the eaflern parts of that ifiand, about the latte
end of September. ConCderable damage is fait
to have been dorte to the houses, {lores, streets
&c. in and about Kingston, the water havin;
rushed down in immense torrents from the vaf
e-xtent of the Liguanea heights, and carried eve
ry t ing, not of a very substantial nature, befort
it. At St. Jagodfila Vega (Spanilh town) th<
damage was not so configurable. Wc do no
hear of any lives 1011, except three or four ne
groes. Mod of the public were renderec
wholly impalfable for wheel carriages ; and the
rains did not seem to abate till about the 30th o
September.
Since the death of Mr. Wefley, the foundei
of the Methodills, it has been difcovcrea that tht
peneral government of the Methodill focieii*:
had been v fled seven years ago, bv a deed emit,
ted in a British court of Chancery, in one hun.
dred persons, feleiled from the body of iiine
tanl preachers, and who are to choole a Presi
dent and Secretary annually.
The American ship Sampson, Capt. Howell
that failed some time fioce from Boflon, foi
China, arrived at the Isle of France, on the 241!
of Apnl, and was to fail from thencc for Can
ton, 011 the ill of June. The Ihip Walhmuton
Nicholfon, was alto at this time at the lue o
France. The ship Neptune, Earle, failed froti
the llie of France for Madras, on the 2 sth oi
May.
Berlin was in times pad the great resort of phi
lofophy and liberality of sentiment. During tht
reign of Frederic the Great, books that arcackec
antiquated opinions were publilhed and circulat
ed freely, when punted there ; and men whe
were persecuted in their own country, for pre
fuming to think for themselves, were lure ol
an asylum in the dominions of the Piuflian Mon
arch. The cafe at present is totally different
Frederic the third, the latest accounts advile, ha;
madeone Woelner (formerly a
his firft minister of Hate. The firll editl he is
sued, was on the fubjeft of religion, under th(
signature Royal, in which the king is made tc
declare, that he willfvffer every one to think as hi
pleases on religious ojjairs. It is pleasant to re
mark that the infernal inquisitions of Spain ant
Portugal, grant piecilely the fame liberty, wit!
this prohibition understood, however, that nt
person Iball dare to speak or publish thei:
thoughts or opinions, if they vary ever so little
from the eflablilhed creed of the country. Mr
Woelner hasalfoobtained a decree from Frede
11c the third, to oblige every author of a book tt
lubmit his worK to the examination of certaii
persons appointed hv the minidet, previous to it
going to prels. Some Writers at Berlin havi
been bold enough to ridicule and oppose the vil
lainous tendency of the above editts —the confe
quence has been that they have been hariaffed
persecuted, tormented, and impiifoned, througl
the influence of a set of men who dare to cal
themselves the ambaiTadors of the God of Peace
the lights of the world, and the indruflors of th
world, at the moment they are doing ever
thing in their power to keep up deluiion, am
tyrannize over those whom the God of Natui
has made free.
Yeflerday arrived the Sloop Illinois, Capt. Story
frcni Dunkirk, by whom the following importan
intelligence is received.
From the Leyden Gazette, Sept. 20, 1791.
Extract of a letter from Paris, of Tuesday th
1 oj September, at 9 o'clock in the evening,
" We haden to inform vou of the accepta
tion made this day, by the King, of the Condi
tution. i o-morrow will bring us the corr.ple
tion cf this good news, and we forefee nothin;
t ow hut a happy futurity for France, and per
hips for all Europe. At present we (hall onl;
give you a short account of what palled this da
in the National Aflembly.
" The fitting of the 13th began at 10 o'clock
A. M. It had been remarked, that on the pre
fent.ition of the ctmjii tutional acl to the King, hi;
Majesty, and fevaral persons round-him, wen
decorated with the ribbon of the Holv Ghofl
M. Goupli therefore moved that the Conflitution
al committee should immediately give their opi
»ion on the quelhon whe(her the members of tbt
heretofore order of the Holy Ghost should con
tinue to wear its diflinftive badge ? M. Beauzai
aid, that it was ufelels to refer this queflion tc
the committee, since there was no doubt that the
3rder not fubfißing any longer, all its exterioi
badges should likewise be abolished. Mr. Gou
pil proposed, that the ribbon of the Holy Ghofl
should be exclusively reserved to the French
Princes, and M. Languinais that none but the
King and Prince Roval should be allowed tc
year it. M. D <nd e supported this opinion, or
he ground that it was necessary to give an ex
etior mark of diftinftion to the King, as sirs
public functionary, and to the presumptive hei
3ft e crown. The AfTcmbly decreed, that th<
iCing and Prince Royal only, should be allowet
o wear the blue ribbon.
" 7 he AfTembly was proceeding on other bu
*pefs, when the Minifler of Justice entered ir
lis robes of ceremony, and delivered a meffagi
rom the King to the President, who is now M
Thouret. Ihe President read it immediately. I
is all in the King's own hand writing, and th<
:ontents thereof are as follows :
From a Paris paper, entitled Le Courier Extra
ordinaire, ou Le premier arrive, by M. Bu
plain ; of September 14, 1791.
Letter from the King to the AfTembly*
Gentlemen,
I have attentively examined the Conflitution
il Ad: which you have presented to me. Ido ac
:ept it, and will cause it to be executed. Thi
simple declaration might at another time hav
Deen fufficient : but now i am bound to make ih
riotives known ; it is a duty which I owe to th
Nation and to myfelf.
For a long time I had conceived the design 0
ixing the happiness of the people on invariabl
)afes. i truck with several abuses which weaken
:d the springs of government; /truck above a!
with the diiproportion which existed in the fman
rial department, between the receipts and expen
litures, I determined to fubjed all the parts c
government to uniform rules. But sensible tha
could not alone reach this great objed,
iimmoned the nation to my afliftance.
111 the course of the events of the revolutior
ind when you began to issue constitutional decree;
did not wait to give my all'ent to them unt:
he constitution should be completed. 1 favouro
is much as was in my power the establishment c
ts several parts, even before 1 could judge of th
vhole and if, in the course of your operations
liforders came to afflid my mind, I hoped tha
he law would resume its empire and its force
ind that the people would shew it that refpe<s
ind that confidence which alone can insure the*
lappinefs.
I ptrfifted a long while in this expedation, an<
ny resolution did not change until hope forfool
ne. Let every one recoiled the era at which .
eft Paris opinions then, far from uniting in «
:ommon centre, branched o .t into several parries
iiforders and the licentiousness of writings wen
hen at their height; no authority was refpeded
could no longer dil'cerii nor recognize in th<
nidfl of that chaos, the real with of the Frenct
Siation.
• hen had you presented the conftituticn to me
should not have tho't that the interest of the
>eople ought to induce me to accept it. I had bui
me sentiment, but one wiiii—that of keeping ai
distance from all parties, and thus to know, in 2
r ery precise manner, the wish of the nation.
The motives which then direded me, do not
low fubfifk any longer ; you have manifefted youi
vill to maintain order ; you have revised the con
titution, and you have modified some articles of i
vhich appeared to me to be liable to great incon
veniences.
You have fubjeded its revision to legal forms; ii
ine, the wish of the people cannot be any longe;
loubtful to me, 1 have seen them conitantly giv<
heir adhesion to this conflitution which you havi
nade for me . Ido thereiore accept thisconftitu
ion and I engage myfelf to defend it against en •
nies from within and from without ; I fnallcaufi
tto be executed by all the means which it put:
nto my power.
Knowing that it is agreeable to the wishes of 1
rery great majority of the nation, I do declare
hat in adhering thereto, I renounce the con
:urrence which 1 had at fir It claimed in this bu
inefs, and that being the only peri'on who is re
ponfible to the nation only, no other, when >
nake this renunciation, has a right to complain
)f it.
1 should, however, be wanting in regard fox
:iuth, if I did not fay that I have thought 1
pcrceived in some parts of your work, a want oi
:hat energ which is indifpenfible to give all the
leceffary ad*ivity to the laws, and to preserve
:he necessary unity throughout all the parts of a
vast empire; but in this refped, experience alone
has a right to be the judge, and when I fhallhave
bona jide caused the laws (the deposit whereof is
trusted to me) tobe carried into execution, it will
remain for the nation to explain themselves by all
the means which are reserved to them.
But, gentlemen, for the securing of liberty, for
the security of tlie conflitution, for the individual
[ecurity of all Frenchmen, their refpedive and
:ommon interests must be united in the re-esta
blishment of order, and in the relped due to the
taws; all Frenchmen mult combine together,and
now that the conflitution is terminated, we have
no enemies to fear but disorder and anarchy, and
[ will combat those common enemies.
Those whom perfccution has kept at a diflance
ought, in returning to their country, to be sure of
meeting with the protedion of the laws, and in
order to extinguiih all animofitics, and to unite
all the parties which such a revolution must ha*c
produced, let us consent to forget all the pail.
Let the accufationsand prosecutions which have
fpi ur.g from the events of the revolution be ex
tingukhed by a general reconciliation. Could you
fee culprits in those who have shewn an attach
ment to isy pcrfon ? As to thoi'c who by a guilty
orindifcreet zeal have drawn upon them the ri
jour of the laws, 1 feel that I am for their
:he King of all Frenchmen.
(Signed) LOUIS.
September, 13, 1791.
P. S. 1 have thought, gentlemen, that it wai
n the midst of the Representatives of the Nati
>n, and in the very place where the cenfiitutior
vas made, that I ought 10 pronounce my accep
ation in person. In coniequence, I give yot
lotice, 1 ha*, to-morrow at noon 1 {hall repair t<
he Aflembly of the Reprelentatives of ihe Na
ion, (oleinnly to pronounce that acceptation."
Loud plaudits had frequently interrupted thi
fading of this letter ; but when it was finilhed
hey began with redoubled force, and with Ihout
>r Vive le Roi!
Then M. la Favettc rose and fa!d: " Leti
ie permitted tome to join here iny \vi!h to tha
if the King, and to move tbe adopting of hi
entiments. I move, that all perlons accufet
ind arretted by reason of the King's departure
>e set at liberty ; that all criminal profecunon
)e withdiawn ; that the prohibition refpectin;
lalfports, and the law concerning emigrations
H- repealed; and that the conflituiional com
mttee and the committee of criminal jurifpru
lence bring in to-itiorrow a bill conformable t<
nele propositions."
This monon was received with transport
everal members rising to support it.
M. Goupil then moved, that a deputation 0
txty members Ihould immediately be fentto ex
jreis to the King the fatisfa&ion of the Aflem
jly, and inform bim fhat they would be ready ti
'eceive him to-morrow. We mult all go, ex
laimed several members, and immediately th
AfLmbly palfed the following decree:
" 1 he National Aflembly, after reading th
Kini's meflage accepting the conftitutiona! a6l
idODting the lennments which the King has tx
jicffed refpefting the cessation of all profecuti
jrw relating to the events of the revolution, de
Jrees as follows :
lfl. All perlons arrested, or accused on ac
:ount of the King's departure, (hall be imme
irately set at liberty, and all prosecutions lhal
ease with tefpeft to them.
ad. The conflitutional committee and tin
:ommittee of criminal jurilprudence lhall to
■porrow, at the opening of the fitting, bring ii
1 draught of a decree to abolish immediately al
>roceed:ngs relative to the events of the tevo
irtion.
3d. There (hall be likewise brought in ;
Iraughtofa decree to abolilli the use of pad
>orU, as well as every other reftriflion of thi
iberty which the Constitution allures to al
rcnch citizens, of going and coining as wel
vithin as without the kingdom.
4th. A deputation of sixty members shall im
nediately repair to the King, to present to hirr
he above decree.
.HTTER from Mr. Juu&sqk, Secre
tary »f State, to the National As
sembly of France.
Philadelphia, March 8, 1791.
5 IR,
I HAVE it in charge fiom the President ol
he United States of America, to communicatc
o the National Afrembly of Fiance, the pecu
lar sensibility of Congreis to the tribute paid to
lie memory of Ben amin Franklin, by the en
ightened and free Representatives of a great na
ioft, in their decree of the 11th of Jurie 1790.
That the loss of fucli a citizen Ihould be la
nented by us, among whom he lived, whom he
o long and eminently served, and who feel
heir country advanced and honoured by hi;
>inh, life, and labors, was to be expected. Bui
t remained for the National Aflembly of France
0 set the firft example of the Representative 0!
)ne Nation, doing homage by a public a£l to the
jiivate citizen oi another, and, by withdrawing
uftitrary lines of to reduce into one
fiaternity the good and the great, wherever they
1 ive lived or died.
That lhele reparations mav difappearbetween
js 111 all times and circumstances, and that
jmon ot lerftiment, which mingles our sorrows
>nthis occasion, may continue long to cemeni
he friendlhip and tile interests of our two nati
jusisourconftantprayer. Withnooneis itmore
metre than with Ijiin, who, in being charged
with the honour of conveying a public (entiment,
s permitted that of exprelling the homage al
jrofound relpeit and veneration, with which he
», Sir,
Your mod obedient
And mod humble servant,
TH. JEFFERSON.
The Pnjident of the National
AJfembly of France.
REPORT of the Diplomatic Committee of the Na
tional AJfembly oj France.
Or. Nt I.IM KN ,
YOU have been made acquainted with the
entiments of the Americans, and their expref
10ns of grateful refpefland particular good will
owards you
The bonefty and upright moral character of
hat people are to us the bell, pledges of their
incerity and affection.
Our interefls and theirs must in future be
:onfidered the fame; and we are reciprocally
ittached to each other by every tic of duty
Aid regard.
We have alEflcd them in repulflng their ene
ries and vindicating ihemfelvcs into freedom,
in return they have taucht us a jull and humane
■firit of ole ation, to relpeet the obligation of
>aths, to pay obedience to ihc laws—to honor
n nun the dignity of his fpeck-. and even to
Undervalue the brilliancy of genius, whether
iifplayed in legnlatipn or fucce&ful warfare,
when fetin competition with the horrors of fan
quinary contests and brutal violence. They
lave also taught us how to pay a proper regard
to the lives and honors of our fellow creatures,
as well a3 their fortunes; and iaftly, they have
et us the example in a quiet fubmiilion to law
ful authority.
A nation a&uatcd by such ideas can boast of
being more thari the conquerors of a world.
They are at once ouf great example and support.
into their ports and mans of tiadethen, to the
peaceable and hapf>y country they inhabit, should
t be our great ertdeavOr, in preference to all
xhers, to introduce our merchants to inform
hemlelves in the nature of their commerce,
ind imbibe the virtues which alone can caufeit
o flouiifh, that is to fay, economy, fimplicit'y,
aurityof morals, integrity,and honefiy.
From the foregoing confiscations it istbeopi
lion of the committee, that the National Afferfi*
3ly should use every pofTiblemeans to chenlhand
sncourage a reciprocal commercial intercourse
between Francc and America.
Lewis the sixteenth having gained the title bf
Restorer of the Liberties of France, mav with
to less uflice lay claim to that of Benefactor of
he new woild. So far then are you from in
ringing his royal prerogative in being the firftto
notify him of your intentions on this head,
:hat, on the contrary, your views and his
peife£lly coincide, and co-operate in the glori
ous plan which he has so much at heart, to draw
cloferthan ever those ties of connexion which
jriite the French nation to the brave citizens of
the United States of America, whose uniform
and generous spirit of equity, next to the juliice
of their cause, the energy of their exertion, and
:heir invincible courage, was heretofore, as it is
at this day, the only firm support and the fur-eft
pledge of their independence.
Decree of the National AJfembly, yutte 2c1791#
The National Assembly having heard a letter
read from the Minilter of the United States of
Ameiica, that was addrefled to their President,
tigned "Jefferson"; and also another letter
from the Reprefcntatives of the State of Penn
sylvania, dated the Sch of Apiil last, and by them
addrefled to the President of the Assembly, to
gether with the report of their official committee,
Ordered—Thar the two letters above mention
ed be printed and inierted in the Journals of the
feflion.
The President is requeued to answer the letter
from the Representatives of the State of Penn
sylvania, and to inform the Minilter of the Unit
?d States of America, that it is the earned delire
jf the National Afiembly to Strengthen more and
more the ties of friendship and brotherly aff'eftion
kvhich at this day constitute a bond of union be
:ween the two Nations.
Decreed, finally, that the King be prayed to
:aufe to be negociated with the United States, a
new treaty of commerce that may tend to Strength
en those mutual relations of friendship and good
jnderftanding, so highly beneficial to them both.
Signed,
BESSE,Curate of St. Aubin,
Secretary.
RICARD, Dep. de Toulon.
The Number of Sou's ir the Territory of the United
States north-iveJ} oj the river Ohio, in 1790.
In the seven ranges of town Ihips
Ohio Company purchase - 1000
The French settlement opposite Kanhawa
Symmes 1 settlement - - 1300
ClarklVille at the Rapids of Ohio - 60
Vincennes on the OubaShe, inclusive of Ri
ver du Cny Station - - 1000
KaSkafkias - . . ;
Cayhokia - - «
At the Grand Ruifleau, village of St.Phi
lip, and Prairie du Rocheis - 240
428 p
N. B. In the town of Vincennes, upon the
OubaShe, are about 40 American families, and
31 Uaves ; and upon tbc Miflifippi are 40 Ameri
can families and about 73 Slaves, which are in
cluded in the above mentioned estimate.
Upon the SpaniSh fide of the Millilippi, above
the confluence of the Ohio, are
At Genivieve, Lahine, and a small iftw vil
lage (the half of which are blacks) . £50
St. Louis (130 of which are blacks) 720
A small settlement 12 miles weft - 100
A settlement 20 miles up the MifTouri Ri
ver - I5 o
IS2O
[The following lines convey the fubftanceofa
satirical French Epitaph upon Frederick the
fecondy King of Pruflia. The fling principally
lies in glancing at the well known aversion of
that monarch to the female sex j and his hav
ing died without leaving an immediate heir to
the throne.]
HERE rests a King—his mortal journey done \
Through life, a tyrant to his fellow man,
Who bloody wreaths in bloody battles wop,
Nature's worst savage since the world began.
Millions were doom'd beneath his fvvord to die •
No art, no care his blafilrtg breath could Shun
Did he one man for all his waste supply }
No ! —teJJ the world—He never gave ir one !
A few Copies of the Report of the Secretary
f State on theJubjeEl of the CoS and Whale
Fifheries —may be had at the No, 2 00
High-fir ect.For the National Gazette.
The PRUDENT PHILOSOPHER.
[ Gccr- erred iy 'If cor. at <7 >j / ,*( genth r. at tb i
of a certain Jvuthem Court-House
dw r it-g the f'jj. c;; f. ]
WH£N from the dome wh«re lawyers .[poke,
TTued the mingled flame and fmokc,
Iv'crcdla. at her window fate,
Gaziijg towards the Dome of State —
That the laborer many a tear—
That ne'erwould be rebuilt—thrvt's ciear j
And thrice die fjgh'd, and smote her bre.i(l
To fee their Iquire-fliips fi>diftreli : y
To fee in fu,ch a little whiJe
To ashes turn'd so fine a pile !
Meanwhile avoiding pump sno pail,
(For wiiat could one man's help avail ?)
Fearing to hurt his tender hand,
. Should he amongil the vulgar fcand,
Yr he:e buckets fly and engines p?ay>
Where fi.--.ves majf work, and makers may J
Philander to her chamber came,
i hus comforting the tearful dame :
<( Behold (said he) my lady fair
How vain theft mortal buildihgs are !
I ;s in a duel's—madness—all things ihow
To set our hearis on things beiow j
( 1 hank heaven for ail its stores of grace,
Our Treasure's in a fafer place :)
But thus the pride of man iliall bend 5
The gods such fabrics only lend j
Whether contriv'd of brick or ftcne,
They hardly cin be cail'd our o'wh :
V/hf.t time might spare the flame
i o heaven such fabrics are but tovs 3
Lite is a spark from Vulcan stole,
The Indian summer of the foul :
-And we ourselves, with years opprefs'd,
la time, lhiill j)nk among the red.
Ah ! lovely nymph-—no longer figb—
*1 is true the flames are mounting high—
But oh ! — forbear that trickling tear,
For thus the world shall disappear j
And temples of flupendous size,
In empty vapor thus flialJ rife*
"When nature droops her weary wings
To give a fad account 0/things ;
When time has run his idle round,
And you and I are—-under ground.
In such a view, Marcella fair,
How beautiful these blazes are !
From such a view et human things
Philofoph-y her comfort brings,
In (trucking us when mifchiefs come,
Vyhen folks are burnt from house and home }
When public buildings born, or fall,
.To bear it with—no grief at all !"
Kind moralist (the nymph replied)
Your do&rines flial.l not be denied 3
And'tho* you make things mighty clear,
I'm almost vex'd, to fee you here :
A fate like this impends o'er all—
(Even high-heel'd ftioes at length must fall !)
But, whether preach'd in prose or rhyme,
'TkvcuJd better suit another time.
How can wejuftly blame the fire
That gives us so much to admire !
]f people skulk when temples burn,
How can they but to ashes turn-—?
Such fire as this some ivater claims—
These are, indeed, no common flames—
So leave me, Love, to sigh and pout—
You run anel help to put them cut !
[Communicated for Publication. J
Don John Nepomucene de Juesaoa, colone
cf the royal armies, governor and commander if.
chief of the city of St. jfugufiine, and province cj
Eajl-Florida, for bis majefly, &c.
WHEREAS it has been found', that diver? 01
the foreign settlers who have arrived here by v'.r
tue of the royal order granting permifiion to efta.
blifli themselves in this said province, bring witl:
them quantities of dry goods and other merchan
dize, whereby doubts have arose with government
whether such effe&s are their genuine_nroperty. or
not. In order therefore to guard against the de
triments which from such importations may ensue
to the royal revenue, and to the consumption oi
the Spanish merchandize, I had a council con
vened of the ministerS of the royal finance, and
the business having been laid before them, which
had been previously imparted by the cantador of
the royal revenue, it was agreed upop to draw up
these presents, hereby notifying to all and every
foreigner, whose intention it may be to repair to
this province,' and to swear fealty to his majesty
in terms of his royal permiflion, that although
there is no limitation made as to the property
brought with them } the fame muii, however, be
accompanied by such family as they may respec
tively have, and also by proofs taken before the
magistracy of the places of their former residence,
whereby it (halt appear that the goods they io im
port are realiy and bona fide their own, and that no
cither person or persons whatever have any part,
ihare or interest therein, which teflimonial, toge
ther with a manifeft upon oath, of the attides so
imported, are to be presented to this government,
at the time required for their taking the oath of
allegiance. This being the form indifpenfibly
requisite for their admilSon, it must however be
underload, that for the better advancement cf
the province, and in conformity to the spirit cf
his Majesty' s orders, such kttlers must positively
be planters or tradefmea ; but by no means will
nerchants or traders be reccivas ;--e r rherto
n/ant fta;e of the colony, as vet but thinly peo
>lcd, permits only in a final! degree the rxerc '. c .
>f this employment, until the caon:ry ffiali b.
uevioufly improved, and rendered •■productive ty
he arts and labor of the inhabitants. To the enc
hat these presents may come to the knowledge o'.
til concerned, and that none p.rrenaigno
ance this proclamation will be pubT ! r ] .with 3C
uftomed formalities, and fixed bp in the us :.<
ilaces. Authenticated copies of it may also be
nade <>ut for such as define the f: r.e for their par
icular purposes.
Cfven at St. Augustine, in Eail-Florida, th(
20th of June, 1791.
Signed,
Juan Netomucene de Juesada.
Domingo Rodriguez de Leon,
Efcribar.do of the govern ment.
I do hereby certify, that the above is a true
ranfiation from original, done by \vi
excellency's comm 3no.
St. Augustine, Eaft-F!oridn, June 179 1.
Michael Ysnardy, Pub ic Intoprettt.
- 1
PHIL ADELP H I A,
November 17.
At a late court of quarter fefiiorrs, held so n: f
lays ;.-'o at Cariifl 3 in this ftate 3 Thomas Sn: 'b
-refider.t of the circuit, delivered a charge to tlu
: jno jury,- adapted to the acta'iin.—ln the c- - uri -
f fur'Str proceedings, the Prefidcnt declinc:
pceivi; any addrefl'cs from the gentlemen
if the ia-.v, prefect, th2t had the least afpedt to*
vnds o.\t t'.ti hr forms, 1 ufa under [ii: old nvj
larchical government,—" *'iay it plc..fe vour ho
rurs" —and even the term ' 1 honorable court"
\".ie a:ike reprobated ,by the President. If v.\
ufl'efs lofriuent abilities 'said he) and an in
imate t.:id accurate knov. ol the practice—
f we adrn-nilWr the Uws with deciiion, difpatchj
md rigid integrity—ifv.e co- lilt ..nd promote ti \
eal and permanent and social happinef
if our fellow citizens, as far in our power ir
>ur prefer. t Ira ion j the public will refprft u
.vi'bout any fjf/rt.—*But, should v. e d:rpear une
|ua! to our office—Should we betray the want o
rgal abilities, or fiioyld our judgments he led o
nfluenced by ouraife&ions, or paliions, or by a::
erfor.al ol party conliderations, no titles or ap
illations, hovever pompous, could fceure to u
he refpedt of an enlightened people."
ExiraEl of a letter from Richmond, l-'ir \y.
nia, dated Nov. 5.
On Wednesday last, the liouf- o
ielegates proceeded by joint ballot will
he lenate, to the choice of a governo;
jr chief magiftr-ate ot this common
wealth, in the room of Beverley
Randolph, Esq. when a majority w«u
found in favor ot Henry Lee, Esq."
[Mr. Lee's competitors were. Gen
Wood, and Mr. Harvey. The vote:
stood as follows : Gen. \VOOd 50, Mr
Harvey 20, Col. Lee 87—and not a:
dated in our last.]
Previous to the attack of the Negrc
:amp, on the 27th of September last, a:
Gallifaut Plantation, the governmen;
as Hifpaniola, at Cape-Francois, hac
received intimation of the good rlifpo
fition of many of the rebel blacks to re
:urn to their dutv, provided they coulc
ac assured of their lives.—This disposi
tion, which was founded on the cir
cumstance of a parley between a final!
party of the citizens and rebels aboui
the 20th of that month, being made
known to the executive power, induced
aim, as well from principles of huma
-11 ty, as from the interest of the public.
3n the 23d to issue the following
PROCLAMATION,
'hilebert Fram is Rouxel De Blancl.e
lande, Representative of the King at
St. Domingo, to the revolted Ne
groes in the North
The Representative of the King, re
quires you in the name of the French
tation, in the name of that King
,'ou love, and of humanity, to relinquish
our infurreftion, to retire all of you
0 your houses, and to resume your
.vork.
You havea&ed very criminally. The
naftacreof your masters, the burning
heir lands and houses, are atrocious
:rimes. If you attend to your confci
:nces, you will think that heaven ar.d
:arth will be irritated against you ; ycu
vill think that you merit, while living,
1 severe punishment, before that whicu
iwaits you hereafter, if yotf persist in
our wicked intention.
I will declare and promise to you,
lowever, asthe Representative of tie
■Ling, that nothing will be done to yo-j.
f you return to ) our habitations with
he firm resolution, to live peaceably
here, and to submit to your masters.
I engage to those tood Negroes, who
lave been mi fled by deft ininj and wick
:d companions, to give them my pro
eftion, and to procure the pardon of
:heirmafterc, who notwithstanding the
injuries which they liave received,
>.-;ll receive thcra as fathers and b?i-.*-
raftors.
I fv.-cnr to von fnoft foletrmly that 1
vm-I faithfully keep my word to vo
-11 all which I have prornifed, if when
,-.-j u;-,derfland the orders which the
iing gives you through me, you im
mediately fubiTiit.
Tremble, however, unhappy men
f you i . ;in youi hori ible revolt
'/ou will meet no mercy- ——livery wherf
he troops which I now command, am
hose which arrive at St. Domingo
:om the Havannah, from Jamaica, N
England. &c, will exterminate yoi
without pity, as well as the free Ne
•roes av.d who are armed tc
Tiarch against you. 1 herefore choon.
ieath or pardon.
I give you from this time till to-mor
row night to return an answer. You
may fend Negroes to treat with me tc
.vhom I promise fafe conduct ; and foi
ivh-ich I give you my word, \\*tiich is
is sacred as that of the King.
Cape-Francois, Sept. 23, 1791.
Many copies of the above were fenl
o the camp of the rebels—but from the
ircumftances which followed, it i:
irobable the chiefs took care that thf
iroclamation Ihould not be circulatec
n the army: for, after the time set foi
•eceiving the answer from the Negroes
lad expired, a deputation of twelve
Iragoons, among whom were two
attoes, were sent with a commifTion tc
obtain it ; but unfortunately, having
idvanced within thelincs of the enemy
,hcy were set upon and fired at by <
arge party, which seemed to be fen
: or the purpose of coming to terms
Five of the dragoons were killed on
he spot, and two taken prisoners ; th<
remaining five happily escaped. Th<
entiments of the rebels being thus pub
icly acknowledged by this piece o
rruelty, dispositions were made to at
:ack them in their camp, which was ac
nrdingly done on the morning of tin
~ ()th. The success of this assault, whicl
afied one hour and a half, we have be
"ore announced. On the entry of th<
r ftorious army into the camp, the tw<
iragoons above mentioned were foun;
ivith their throats cut, still bleedin;
refh. It is generally thus that theli
uore than favageshave acted with thofi
A'ho have been so ill-fated as to fall in
o their hands—and in this manner tht
.nee flour, filing colonyof St. Domingo
rontinues to bleed by the hands of infa
uated Africans, who have doubtlef
isen led on by emiiTaries, to ast thi;
cene of murder and desolation.
ExtraEl of a Utter from Hartford, Novtm
ber 9.
," Applications are making to our le
;iflature for purchase of the wefteri
ands belonging to Connecticut. A
he rage for speculation in lands is nov
ligh, it would seem moll politic for u
:o take advantage of the public phren
»y, and difpofeof them at once that tin
state may reap the advantage. It i
eared, however, that the fame mad po
icy, which has hitherto prevented th<
ale of these lands, will still govern tin
egiflature; and that under prctcncc o
wlding them till they rife in value
hey will be held till the rage of fpecu
alien is over, till the monied men hav<
rcfted their money in other lands oi
nterpri. es, and then a few defignint
nen will have an opportunity of pur
hafing those lands for little or nothing
ROME, July 29.
It is no impoflible that fuperftitioi:
ivill soon have a downfall in this coun
:ry. As a proof of this, we would men
;on that when the officers of the incjui
ition made a public bon-fire of M. Cal
oftro's iijftruments of sorcery and othei
;oods, the populace did by no mean;
~eem afFected with that horror, that the
lght of heretics and heretical property
■ad heretofore inspired ; so far from it,
hat they burst out into a laugh, when
hey were told, that the jDcc :7and M. de
had had connections together.
L ucy patiently attended this ridiculous
exhibition : but it was thought, that if
VI. Calioftro could have been there per
or,ally to plead his own cause, the in
juifitors would have been handled very
oughly.
The best informed people, hardly
'now what to make of the Pope's con
iuft in regard to France. By not con
enting to a reform, political and religi
>us, some lay he will lose every thing ;
others assert, that, his whole fafety lies
n preventing any innovations of this
: — ■" : -d. c ! ! ipal politi l; a!
his time frcr--. 'to be wavering, and there
.re not a iew-who think that were it not
or the:J-.-rtirtKcy of the Cardinal Bernis,
-.e v/ould before thii time have given his
an&ion to, the" civil coniiitutipa.of the
♦ren'Ch clergy.
CAPE FRANCOIS, (w.Vr 20, i 7 9 - '
iilftimate of Supar Plajrtansns, burned
by the Negroes, wiih the amoiftit of
the Sugars tnat were raited 011 them
annual! v.
Plantations. lbs. Sugar.
Port Margot 8 1.f00.000
Liirjbe "3 . co coo
L'Acul 59 <.600-000
Plaine clu Nerds 23 4,700.000
Petite Anfe 29 6,000.000
Quartier Morin 33 io ; *oo ; oco
Limonade '30 7.' 00.000
Total 165 /0,000.000
The quantity of Coffee Plantations
leftroyed. is not known, but it is conli
lerable.
SAVANNAH, Oil. 17.
We learn from undoubted authority,
hat a refpe&able majority of the voters
>f Cambden 'county have fublcribed a
petition to the ensuing legifiaturc, pro
efting against the: reproachful conduct
)f the magiftrat.es who signed the re
:urn for a member of Corjgrels, at the
for the said county, on the 3d
jf January jaft, who, they declare, aug
mented the nu.nberof votes in favoui
sf one of the candidates to upwards of
live times the statement of the polk;
md entreating the house to pursue such
measures as may appear molt likely to
iffeft a reform, and prevent the like a
xifes in future.
TO TIIF. PTjiillC,
H E Firfl Nuviier of this paper ap
peared, on Monday the of Octo
ber, and will continue to be regularly pub
-lifhed on Monday and Thurfdav mornings.
The price to fubferibirs will be Three
Dollars a year, the frjl half-yearly pay
nent to be made m three months from the
ime of fubferibing j the remainder at the
:nd of the year.
No advertisements are to be admitted ex
'ept to a number not exceeding a page, with
out a fuppkment ; the remaining three pa
res to contain a miscellany of the mast in L
'erefng intelligent, colletled not only from
'he foreign and domeflic nezofpapers, but
ilfo from original communications, Utters
Ind other papers, to which the Editor may
have an opportunity of recurring for the
mofl authentic information relative to the
iff airs of the United States and Europe. It.
iddiiion to the above, will be infected a fum
>nary of the proceedings of the House of Re
brefentatives of the United States ; politics,
boetry,and literary entertainment in general.
In this paper the Editor engages to Jup
port, as far as a netefpaper can wjth pro
priety be supposed to support, the great
principles upon which the American revolu
tion was founded, a faithful adherence tj
which can alone preserve the blessings of liber
ty to this extenjive empire an empire,
in which the grand experiment is now
making, whether or not the afertior. of
certain European philofofhers be true, that
a pure republic can never fubiifL for
any length of time, except in a very
limited extent of territory.
Convinced that a diffemmation of ufeful
knowledge is the mofl effective means to pre
serve alive the spirit of rational liberty, in
every country, no pains will be spared to
make such feleßions, and publish such ef*
fays as shall appear befl adapted to that pur
pose.
Subscriptions for the National Gazette
are received in ' Philadelphia at the Office,
No. 2 39, High-Street—By Mr. Thomas
Dobfon, Bookseller, No. 41, South Second'
Street, and by Mr. Francis Bailey, No.
116. High-Street.
Advertisements, articles of intelligence, &c.
are gratefully received at the Office by the
Editor, P. FRENEAU.
LIVERY aT A B LET
PETER WEBBERS
HAS removed his Stable from Elack-Ihrfc-
Allcy to Drir.Un-Alley, formerly kept by
Mr. Hypel, betwixt \Arcb unt Race-Strcrts in
Second-Street, where he continues to take in
WORSES by the Night, Week, Month or
Y>ar, &c. at the cheapest rate.
Pbua. J .-:!pbu 1, Off. 7.
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND SWAINE,
;at 1 HEIR office, 1:0.239, iiigii-stkeet,
rc/.p. S IXTIT-CTRELT,
r n I 1. A D r I. !'M A.