Vol. I.
Report on Manufactures.
( Continued.)
VJL to the creating, in some inftanccs, a
yew, and securing in ill a more certain and Jieady
Ufnand. for the Jutplui produce of the foil.
THIS is among the most important of the cir
cumtt'ances which have been indicated. It is a
principal mean, t>y which the eftablifliment of ma-;
Jiufadtures contributes to an augmentation of the:
produce or revenue of a country, and has an im
mediate ana due£t relation to the profpeiity of
agriculture.
it is evident, that the exertions of the huf
tandman will be steady or fluctuating, vigorous or
leeble, in proportion to the steadiness or fluctu
ation, adequatenefs, or inadequatenefs of the
markets on which he must depend, for the vent
of the surplus, which may be produced by his
labor j and that such surplus in the ordinary;
course of things Will be greater Or less in the
fame proportion.
For the purpose of this vent, a domestic mar
ket is grt atly to be preferred to a foreign Qne j
because it is in the nature of things, far more to
be relied upon.
It is a primary objeCl of the policy of nations,
to be able to supply themselves• with subsistence
from their own foils jand manufacturing nations,
as far as ctrcumftances permit, endeavor to pro
cure from the fame iource, the raw materials ne
eeflary for their own fabrics. This disposition,
uiged by the spirit of monopoly, is foxnetimes
even carried to an injudicious eXrreme. it seems
not always to be recolleCted,' that nations, who
have neither mines nor manufactures, can only
obtain the manufactured articles of which they
fland in need, by an exchange of the produCts of
their foils ; and that, if thole who can best fur
>l iill them with such articles are unwilling to
give a due course to this exchange, they must of
neceffit) make every polfible effort to manufacture
for themselves j the effeCt of which is that the
manufacturing nations abridge the natural advan
tages of their situation, through an unwillingness
to permit the agricultural countries to enjoy the
advantages of theirs, and facrifice the interests of
-a mutual beneficial intercourse to the vain pro
jcCt of filling every thing and buying every thing.
But it is also a consequence of the policy,
which has been rioted, thac the foreign demand
tpr the produj&a■ x»f countrie« ? \t 9 in
great degree, rather casual and occasional, than
certain or co'.ftavt. To what extent injurious
interruptions or the demand for some of the staple
Commodities of the United States, may have
been experienced, from that cause, must be re
ferred to the judgment of those who are engaged
in carrying on the commerce of the country 3 but
it may be'fafely affirmed, that such inturruptions
are at times very inconveniently felt, and that
cafea not unfrequently occur, in which markets
arc so confined and restriCted, as to render the
demand very unequal to the supply.
independently likewise of the artificial impedi
ments, which are created by the policy in quef
tfon, there are natural causes tending to render 1
the external denrand for the surplus of agricultu
ral nations a precarioos reliance. The differen
ces of seasons, in the countries which aTe the con
sumers, make immense differences in the pro
duce of their own foils, in different years j ana
confcquentiy in the degrees of their neceiiity for
foreign supply Plentiful harvests with them,
cfpecially if similar ones occur at the fame time
in the countries which are the furnifhers, occa
lion of course a glut in the markets of the latter.
Considering bow fact and how much the pro
gress of new settlements in the United States must
encreafe the surplus produce of the foil, and
weighing seriously the tendency of the system,
which prevails among most of the commercial
nations of Europe 5 whatever dependence may
be placed on the force of natural circumstances to
counteract the effcCls of an artificial policy J
there appear strong reafori* to regard the foreign
dema .d for that iurplus as too uncertain a reli
ance, and to desire a fubititute tor it, in an tx
tenfive domestic m*. kct.
To fccure such a market, there is no other
expedient, than to promote manufacturing esta
blishments. Manufacturers who constitute the
most numerous class, after the cultivators of land,
are for that reason the principal consumers of the
surplus of their labor.
This idea of an extensive domestic market for
the surplus produce of the foil is of the firli con
sequence. It is of all things, that which most
effectually conduces to a fiouri/hing state ot agri
culture. If the effect of manufactories should be
V»to detach a portion of the hands, which would
otherwise be engaged in tillage, it might pollibiy
cause a smaller quantity of lands to be under cul
tivation ; but by their tendency to procure a
more certain demand for the surplus producc of
the foil, they would, at the fame time, cause the
Jands which were in cultivation, to be better im
proved and more productive. And while, by
their influence, the condition of each individual
farmer would be meliorated, the total mass of
agricultural production would probably be encreaf
ed. For this must evidently depend as much, if
i»t more, upon the degree of improvement,
than upon the number of acres under culture.
It merits particular observation, that the mul
tiplication of manufactories not only furnilhes a
market for those articles which have been accuf
torocd to be produced in abundance, in a coun
try j but it iikewife crea ei a demand for such a*
THURSDAY, December 29, 1791-
were either unknown or produced in inconsidera
ble quantities* The bowels as well as the furfacc
, of the earth are ransacked for articles which were
before negleCted. Animals, plants and minerals
acquire a otrliry and value, which were before
unexplored.
The foregoing confideratioos seem fuffiertnt to
as general proportions, that it is the
interest of nations to diversify the im:uftrious
pursuits of the individual* whocompofe them—
* That the establishment of manufactures is calcula |
ted not only to encreafe the general frock of ufe
ful and productive labor ; but even to improve
. the state of agriculture in particular ; certainly
to advance the int&refts of those who are engaged
, in it. There are other views, that will be here
after taken of the subjeCt, which, it is conceived,
. will serve to confirm these inferences.
111. Previously to a further difcufTion of the
, objections to the encouragement of manufactures
which have been stated, it will be of use to fee
what can be said in reference to the particular
situation of the United Stares, agairjft the con
clusions appearing to result from what has been
already offered.
It may be observed, and the idea is of no in
confrderable weight, that however true it might
be, that a state, which poflrfling large traCts of
vacant and fertile territory, was at the fame timt
seCluded from foreign commerce, would find its
interelt and the interest of agriculture, in divert
ing a part of its population from tillage to manu
factures j yet it will not follow, that the fame is
true of a state, which having such vacant and
fertile territory, has at the fame time ample op
portunity of procuring from abroad, on good
terms, all the fabrics of which it Hands in need,
for the supply of its inhabitants. The power of
doing this at least ftcures the great advantage of a
divifron of labor, leaving rhc farmer free to pur
ine cxclufively the culture of his land, and ena
bling him to procure with its products the manu
factured supplies requisite either to his wants or
to his enjoyments. And though it should be
trne, that in fettled countries, the diverfification
ofinduftrv is conducive to an encreafe in the pro
ductive powers of labor, and to an augmentation
of revenue and capital ; yet it is scarcely con
ceivable that there can be any thing of so solid
and permanent advantage to an uncultivated and
unpeopled country) as to convert its Waftesioty
cuTtfvated ancT inhabited diftriCts. If the reve
nue, in the mean time, should be lefj, the capi
tal, in the event, mull be greater.
To these observations, the following appears
co be a fatisfaCtory answer—
i. If the system of perfect liberty to industry
and commerce were the prevailing system of na
tions, the arguments which difluade a country
111 the predicament of the United States, frnm
the zealous pursuit of manufactures would douot
lels have great force. It will not be affirmed,
that they might not be permitted, with few ex
ceptions, to lerve as a rtfle of national conduCt.
In suCh a state of things, each country would
have the full ber/efit of its peculiar advantages to
com-penfate lor its deficiencies or difadvant ages.
If one nation were in condition to supply ma nu
faCtured articles on better terms than another,
that Other might find an abundant indemnifica
tion in a fupeiior capacity to furnifh the producc
of the foil. And a free mutually bene
ficial, of the commodities which each was able to
lupply, on the heft terms, might be carried or.
between them, fu'pporting in full vigor the indus
try of each. And though the circuniftances
which have been mentioned, and others which
will be unfolded hereafter, render it probable,
that nations merely agricultural, would not enjoy
the fame degree of opulence, in proportion to
their numbers, as those which united manufac
tures with agriculture *, yet the progreftive im
provement of the lands of the former, might in
the end, atone for an inferior degree of opulence
in the meaTrtime j and in a cafe, in whiciioppo
iice considerations arc pretty equally balanced;
the option ought perhaps always to be, in favor
of leaving industry to its own direction.
But the system, which has been mentioned, is
far from characterizing the general policy of na
tions- The prevalent one has been regulated by
an oppofcte fpi,it. The confeq-uence of it is, that
the United States aTe to a certain extent, in the
situation of a country precluded from foreign
commerce. Thsy can indeed, without difficul
ty, obtain from abroad the ma»ufaChjred sup
plies, of which they are in want j but they ex
perience numerous and very injurious impedi
ments to the emiflion and vent of their own com
modities. Nor is this the cafe irt reference to a
hngle foreign nation only. '1 he regulations of
lsveral countries, with which we have the mo ft
extensive intercourse, throw serious obftroCtions
in the way of the principal staples of the Uniteo
States.
In such a position of things, the United States
cannot exchange with Lurope on equal ierms 5
and the want of reciprocity would render them
the yiCtirn of a system, which should induce them
to confine their views to agriculture, and refrain
from manufactures. A constant and encreafing
necefiitv, on their part, for the commodities of
Europej and only a partial and occasional de
mand for their own, in return, could not but
expose them to a state of impoverishment, com
pared with the opulence to which their political
and natural advantages authorise them to .ifpire.
Remarks of Lhis kind are not made in the fpi
BY PHILIP fR E NEA U.
rit of complaint. *Tis for the narioro, whose re
gulations are alluded ta f to judge for them
fvi\es, whether by aiming at too much, they do
notkie mote tbin they gain "l is for the Uni
[ red Sates' to conftder by what means they can
I rende tbemklves leafl dependent, on tile Combi
natro 1 igfcf or wrong, of foreign policv.
it ;s no fmaH consolation, that already the
rntalVrcs which have embarrafTed our trade,)
hive accelerated internal improvexffents which
upon ihe whole have bettered our affairs.
To nverfifv and extend rhefe improvements, is
the and fafeft method of indemnifying our-
any inconveniencies, which those or
flmiiar measures have a tendency to beget. If
Europe will not take from us the produCts of our
foil-, uson terms confident with our interest, the
remedy is to ContraCt as fact as poißblc
our frcnts of her.
2. The conversion of their waste into cultiva
ted fa;>ds is certainly a point of great moment in
the p -litical calculations of the United States.
But tl t degree in which this may poflilly be re
tarded by the encouragement of manufactories
does not appear to countervail the powerful i'n
duce; icnts to affording that encouragement.
At. übfervaiion made in another place is of a
nature to have great influence ucon this »nftion—
; if it ca.-inot be denied, thac the interests even Of"j
; agriculture may be advanced more by having such
of the lands of a state as are occupied under ,;ood
culciV3ti6n, than by having a greater quantity
occupied under a much inferior cultivation, and
if manufactories, for the reafor.s afligned, must'
be admitted to have a tendency to promote aj
more steady and vigorous cultivation of the lands
occupied, than Would happen without them, it
will £cMow, that they are capable of indemnify
ing a country for a diminution of the progress of
new leuUments j and may feive 10 encreafe both
the capital value and the incoma of its lands,
even tno* ihey should abridge the nunrber of acres
under '.ii£ge.
But it does by no means follow, that the pro
gress o** jicv* settlements would be retarded by the
extenfr nOf manufactures. The defirfc of being
ast ind* penocfit proprietor of land is rounded on
such ft.ong principled in the human breast, that
where ,i?e opportunity of becoming so rs as great
as it \j in :h* United the proportion will
K- ,-il of . .-.v'' 1'... mu-i iori'
lead to jt, iJPho Would be diverted 1 from it towards
manufactures. And it is highh probable, as al
ready intimated, that the acceffibn* of foreigners,
who originally drawn over by manufacturing
views, would afterwards abandon them for agri
cultural, would be more than an equivalent for
those Of our own citizens, who might happen to
be detached from them,
The remaining objections to a particular en
couragement of manufactures in the United
States n6w require to be examined.
One of tbefe turns 011 the proposition, that in
dnftrv, if left to itfelf, will naturally find its
way to the most ufefiil and profitable employ
ment : whence it is inferred, that manufactures,
without the aid of government, will grow up as
foan and as fact, as the natural stale of things
and the interest ofjhe commoniry may reuuire.
Against the solidity at this hypothecs, iri the
fuli latitude of the terms, very cogent reasons
may be offered. These have relaiion to the
Itiong influence of habit and the spirit of imita
tion, -the fear of want of success in untried en
terprises, the intrinsic difficulties incident to firft 1
efiavs towards » competition with those who
have previously attained to perfection in the buii
nefs to be attempted, the bounties, premiums and
other artificial encouragements, with which fo
reign nations second the exertions of their own
citizens in the oranclies, in which they are to be
rivalled.
Experience teaches, that men are often so much
governed by what they are accustomed to fee and
praCtice, that the fimpleit and most obvious im
provements, in the niolt ordinary occupations,
are adopted with hesitation, reluCtance and b)
flow gradations. The fyontaneouy transition to
new pur fa its, in a community long habituated to
difteient ones, may be expected to be attended
with proportionably greater difficulty. When
former occupations ceased to yield a profit ade
quate to the subsistence of their followers, 01
when there was an absolute deficiency of employ
ment in them, owing to the fupe.rabundance of
hands, chanpes would ensue j but these changes
would be likely to be more tardy than might con
sist with the interest either of individuals or of
the society. In many cases they would not hap
pen, while a bare support could be ensured by an
adherence to ancient courses j though a relbit.io
a more profitable employment might be practica
ble. To produce the defvrable changes, as early ab
maybe expedient, may there fore require the in
citement and patronage of government.
The apprehension of failing in new attempts is
perhaps a more serious impediment. There are ;
dispositions apt to be attracted by the mere no
velty of an undertaking j but these are not al
ways those belt calculated to give it success. To
this, it is of importance that the confidence of
cautious, sagacious capitalists, both citizens and
foreigners, ftiould be excited. And to in Ipi re
this description of persons with confidence, it is
essential, that they should be made to fee in an>
projeCt, which is new, and for that reason alone,
if for no other, precarious, the prospeCt of such a
degree of countenance and support from govern
Numb. 18.
■ merit, as may be capable of overcoming the ob
| flecks, infrparable from firit experiments.
I The superiority antecedently enjoyed by na
tions, who have pre-occup'ied and perfected a
branch of indnttrv, con&nu'.es a mote formidable
obftacie, than either of those, which have teen
mentioned, to the ifltrodiuCtiorr of the fame branch
into a country, in whicft it did not before exiit.
To maintain thi recent e (fe'Wifcments of
one countiy and the iong matured eftabliihments
of another country, a competition upon equal
terms, both as to quality and price, ii in most
cases impracticable. Tire difpavity, inthepne,
or in the other, or ill both, must fjcceiTariiy be »b>
Cortfideiable as to fojbid a toece&ful rivahhip,
without the extiaordinary aid and protection (if
government
But the grea'teft obftacie erf all to the fuccefsful
profeeution of a new branch of industry in a coun
try, in which it was beforfc donfifts, aa
far as the irrftances apply, it the bounties, pjemi
ums and other aids which are granted, in a varie
ty of cales } by the nations in which the elrabiiCi
ments tj be imitated are previously introduced,
it is Well k/io\Vn (and particular examples in the
course of this report will bs cited) that certiin na
tions grant bounties on the exportation of particu*
iar commodities, io enable their own Workmen to
undersell and fuppiant all coftipetjcori, in the coun
tries to which those commodities are sent. Hence
the undertakers of a new manufacture have t>*
contend, not only with the natural disadvantage*
of a new undertaking, but with the gratuities ~nd
remunerations which other governments bestow.
To be enabled tQ contend with success, it is evi
dent, £bn the interference and aid of their owrf
government ar« indiTpenfafcle.
Combinations by those engaged in a particular
Branch of business in one country, to rrurtrate the
firft efforts to introduce it into another, by tempo
rary faCrifrees, recompensed perhaps by extraoidi
nary indemnifications of the government of such
countiy, are believed* to have exited, and are nou
to be regarded as detfitute of probability. The
cxitlftnce or alturance of aid from the government
of the country, in which the business is to be in-
may be efieijtial t:y fortify adventurer*
the dread of suCh combinations—to defeat
their effeCts, if formed, and to p.event their being
foimedo -bv dem 01? ft rating that mult in-the
end .........
Whatever ioi m : fere may he for an
that the litdii'ftry of a people, undei 1 the direction
of private i mere ft, wili upon equal terms find ouC
the most beneficial employment for itfeif, there it
none for a reliance, that it wiii firu'ggle against the
force of unequal terms, or will of itfeif surmount
all the adventitious barriers to a fuccefsfdl compe
tition, which may have been ereeither by the'
advantages naturally acquired frc.n practice and
previous pofteilion of the ground, or by those which
may have fpruo-g. from positive regulations and an
artificial policy. This geneial reflection mighe
alone fuffice as an answer to the objection under
examination 3 exclofively of the weighty confeder
ations which have been particularly urged.
The objeCtions t to the purfuic of manufaCVares in
the United State?, ,which next prefert. tnemlfelves
to discuss.on, rcprefent an impraCt'cabiiity of suc
cess, arifiog from three causes—sear city of hands,'
deainefs of labor, want of capital*
The two firft are to' a certain ex
tent real, and, within due limits, ought to be ad
mitted as obffacJes to th 4 fucceis of manufacturing
enterprise in the United States. But there are va
rious confideiations, which lei Ten their force, and
tend to afford an assurance that ihey are not fulfi
qient to prevent th<e advantageous profeeution of
many Very ufeful and extensive manufactories.
With regard to scarcity of hands, the faCi itfeif
must be applied with no imall qualification to cer
tain parts of the United 1 States. There are
dift'riCts, which may be considered as pretty fully
peopled ; and which notwithstanding a continual
drain for distant lettlement, are thickly inter
spersed with flourifhing and encreaftngtowns. If
these distriCts have not already reaehed the point,
at whi-ch the complaint of scarcity of hands Ceases,
they are not remote from it, and are approaching
fact towards it: And having perhaps fewer attrac
tions to agriculture, than some other parts of th*?
union, they exhibit a prcportionably stronger ten
dency towards other fcind3 of industry, Jn these
diftri&s, may be discerned, no inconsiderable ma
turity for manufacturing eftabliihments,
Btit there are eircumil'ances, Which have been
already noticed with another view, that materially
diiriiniih every where the effe& of a scarcity of
hands. These cirCumstances are—the great use
which can be made of women and children 7 on
which point a very pregnant and-' instruCtive fadt
has been mentioned ; the va-ft extenfron given by
late improvements to the employment of machines*
which substituting the agency of fire and water,
has prodigioully lefifened the ntceility sos manual
labor ; the employment of persons ordinarily en
gaged in other occupations, during the seasons, or
hours of leisure ; which, besides giving occasion
to the exertion of a greater quantity of labour by
the fame number of persons, and thereby encreaf
ing the general rtock of labor as has been elsewhere
remarked, may also be taken into the calculation,
as a refourcefor obviating the scarcity of hands—
laflly, the attraction cf foreign emigrants. Who
ever inspeCts with a careful eye, the composition
of our towns, will be made fenGble to what an ex
tent this resource may be relied »pon. Tiaii'
( See Ififl page. JProclamation of Louis XVI. the Patriot
" King of the French."
" Louis,
"By the grace of God, and by the
constitutional law of the state, King
of the French. To. all citizens—
Greeting.
" I have accepted the constitution ;
I will use all my endeavours to maintain
itj and cause it to be executed.
" The revolution is completed. It
is time that the re-eftablilhment of ordet
should give to the constitution the fiip
port which is still more necessary ; it is
time to fix the opinion of Europe on
the destiny of France, and to shew that
the French are worthy to be free.
" But my vigilance and my cares
ought still to be seconded by the con
currence of all the friends of their 1
. Country, and of liberty. It is by sub
mission to the laws ; it is by abjuring the
fpiritof party, and all the passions which
accompany it ;it is"by a: happy union of
sentiments, of wishes, and of endeavours
that the constitution will be confirmed,
and that the nation will enjoy all the
advantages which it secures.
<! Let every idea of intolerance then
be abandoned forever ; let the rash de
sire of independence no longer be con
founded with the love of liberty ; let
those pernicious qualifications, with
which it has been attempted to in
flame the people, be irrevocably ba-
Kifhed ; let religious opinions no longer
be a lourcc of persecution and animosi
ty ; let all who observe the laws be at li
berty to adopt the form of worship to
■which they are attached and let no
party give offence to those who may
follo~w opinions different from their
own, from motives of conscience. But
it is not fufticient to shun tllofe eXcesses
to which you might be carried by a spi
rit of violence ; you mull likewise ful
fil the obligations which are imposed by
the public interest: one of thefirft, one of
the mod elfential, is the payment of the
contributions established by your Re
prefentativesi It is for the observance
of engagements, which national ho
nour has rendered sacred, for the inter
nal tranquility of the states, for its exter
nal security ; it is for the {lability, of the
constitution iffelf, that I remind you of
this indifpenfible duty.
" Citizens, armed for the mainte
lance of ths law, national never
forget that it iStopr6teO: the fafety of
persons and of property, the colle&ion of
public contributions, the circulation of
grain and of provisions, the arms which
you bear have been delivered into your
hands ;it belongs to you to feel that
justice and mutual utility demand, that
between the inhabitants of the fame em
pire, abundance should be applied to
the aid of indigence ; and that it is
the duty of the public force to promote
the advancement of commerce, as the
means of remedying the intemperance
of fe'afons, correcting the inequality of
harvest, uniting together all the parts of
the Kingdom, and establishing a com
munity of the various produ&ions of
their foil and industry.
"And you, whom the people have
chosen to watch over their interests; you .
also, on whom they have conferred the
formidable power of determining on the
property, the honour, and the life of
citizens ; you, whom they have inftitu- '
ted to adjust their differences, members
of the different administrative bodies, 1
judges of tribunals, judges of peace,
X recommend to you to be impreflfed 1
with the importance and dignity of your '
functions ; fulfil them with zeal, with
courage, impartiality ; —labour with me 1
to restore peace and the government of
laws ; and by thus securing the happi- '
nefsof thenation, prepare for the return '
of those whose absence has only proceed
edfrom the fear of disorder and violence. '
" And all you who from different mo- '
tives have quitted your country, your '
King invites you to return to your fel- 1
low-citizens ; he invites you to yield '
to the public wish and the national in
terest. Return with confidence under '
the security of the law ; and this ho- t
nourable return, at the moment when i
the constitution is definitively fettled, 1
■will render more easy and more expe- 1
ditious, the re-establishment of order r
and of tranquility.
" And you, French people, a nation '
illustrious for Co many ages, show your- r
selves magnanimous and genenms at
the r .oment when your liberty is con- \
firir d ; rcfume your happy charaftcr ; t:
Jet your moderation and wisdom levivf c
t among you the fecuvity which the dis
turbances of the revolution banish
ed ; and let your King henceforth enjoy,
: without inquietude, and without moles
; tation, those testimonies of attachment
- and fidelity which can alone secure liis
happiness,
; " Done at Paris, the twenty-eighth,
i of September, i 791.
(Signed) LOUIS:
t (and underneath) "De Lessast."
t _. . _
- The Respectful Petition of the
s Chrijlian Society of Friends called
1 Quakers, dtlivercixbefjre the National
t Afiembly of France, Thursday, 10ih
February, 1791.
s RifpeQabk Ltgifiators,
' ' I 'HE french nation having appoint
r Jl ed you her Legifiators, and your
- heartshavii'ig been dilpofed to enact
: wife laws, our minds have been deep
-1 ly engaged to solicit the extension of
f your jullice and benevolence to the So
s ciety of peaceable Christians to which
• we belong.
- You know that in several states of
Europe and North-America, there are
1 a great number of Christians known by
- the name of Quakers, who profefs to
- fcrve God according to the ancient lim
t plicity of theprimitive Chriftianchurch.
1 Several towns and villages of Langue
- doc contain a number of families at
- tached to this primitive Christianity.
■ Many other families which came from
- America, have fettled at Dunkirk, un
der the auspices of the late govern
> ment. in conl'equence of the invitation
» given to the inhabitants of Nantucket,
for the purpose of extending the French
Fifherics.
These islanders have proved them
; selves worthy of your kindness by their
success ; and the fame motive will in
duce them to continue to deserve it.
Concerns, however, of far greater mo
ment, have this day brought us before
: you.
In an age signal for the encreafe of
knowledge, you have been struck with
this truth, that confcicnce, the immedi
ate relation of man with his Creator,
cannot be fubjeft to the power of-inan :
and this principle of justice hath induc
ed you to decree a general liberty for al l
forms of Worlhip. This is one of the
noblcft decrees of the French legislature.
Ybu have set a gteat example to the
nations which continue to pesfecute for
religion, and sooner or later, we holpe,
they will follow it.
We are come to implore this spirit of
justice, that we may befufFered, without
molestation, to conform to some princi
ples; and to use some fotms, to which
the great family of Friends callid Qua
kers, have been inviolably attached e
verfince their rife.
Great persecutions have been inflict
ed on us, on account of one of these
principles, but to no purpose. Provi-i
dence hath enabled us to furir.ount
them without using violence. We mean
the principle which forbids us to take
arms, and kill men on any pretence ; a
principle consistent with the holy Scrip
tures ; " Render not," said Christ, "e
--vil for evil, but do good to your ene
mies."
Would to Heaven this principle were
univerfallv adopted ! All mankind be
coming one family, would be brethren
united by acts of kindness. Generous
Frenchmen, you are convinced of its '
truth ; you have already begun to re
duce it to practice ; you have decreed '
never to defile your hands with blood in
pursuit of conquest. This meafurc
brings you,—it brings the whole world,
a step towards universal peace. ' You
cannot therefore behold with an un- '
friendly eye men who accelerate it by
their example. They have proved in
Pennsylvania, that vast establishments
may be formed, raised, and supported
without military preparations, and with- {
out shedding human blood. \
We fubmitto your laws, and only de- 1
fire the privilege of being here, as in o- t
ther countries, the brethren of all men ;j 1
never to take up arms against any. Eng- t
land, and the United States of America \
where our brethren are far more nume- a
rous than in France, allow us peaceably c
to follow this great principle of ou'r re- 1
ligion, nor do they esteem us useless
members of the community. a
We have another request to make, 1
which wc hope you will not refufe us, a
because it flows from those principles t
of juiticc to which you do homage, \
-| In our registers of births, marriages,
- and burials, we have preferyed the sim
, plicity of the primitive church. Our
- maxims forbid uieltifs forms, and limit
t us to thole which are neceftary for aicer
s taining the terms of human "life, confid
ently with the good order of society.—
\ We request that our iimplc registers
may be deemed fufficient to legalize our
marriages and births, and authenticate
our deaths, by causing a declaration
; thereof to be made before a magistrate.
t Finally, we request that we may be
{ exempted froreLaii oaths; Christ having
1 expressly forbidden them in these
h -vyords, "You have heard that it. hath
bee.n said by them of oldtirjie, thpiU fhalt
perform thine oaths but 1 fay unto
- you, swear not at all ; but let your yea
t be yea, and your nay, nay."
t Wife legislators, you are persuaded as
- well as we, that an oath is no assurance
f of sincerity ; that it can give no addi
. tional force to the declaration of an ho
i nest man, and doth not deter a perjurer.
You admit that an oath is but a peculiar
f way of making a declaration—as it
; were a peculiar mode of speech. We
f hope therefore you will not refufe to
5 hear us in ours. It is that of our com
- mon Mailer—that of Christ.
We trust that we shall not be suspect
- ed of a wish to evade the great p.urpole
. of the civic oath. We are earnest to
. declare in this place, that we will conti
t nue true to the constitution which you
- have formed ; we cherilh and refpett
- it; and it is our full purpose to follow
i its laws in all their purity; on the o
, ther hand, if our words, if'our eviden
i ces are found to be falfe, we willingly
lubmit to the penalties on falfe witnef
- fes and perjurers.
r Can you, refpe&able legislators, hefi
- fate to grant our rsqueit ? Cast your
- eyes on the hi (lory of our Society, in
- the countries in whish we are establish
: ed. More than a century hath elapsed,
and we have never been found in any
f conspiracy against the government. Our
i temperate rule of life forbids ambition
- and luxury, and the purpose of our
, watchful dilcipline is to preserve us in
: the pra&ice of those manners to which
■ we were led by the exhortations and ex
l ample of our founder.
• We esteem employment a duty en
. joined to all ; and this persuasion ren
: ders us active and mduftrious. In this
■ refp.ect therefore our society may prove
, ufeful to France. By favoring us you
encourage industry. Industry nowfeeks
f those countries where the honeil indus
: trious man will be under no apprehen
■ fions of feeing the produce of a century
of labor fnatchcd away, in an instant, by
the hand of pcrfecution. i
Nowthat France isbccoming the asy
lum of liberty, of equal law and of bro
therly kindness, and adds to these sourc
es of prolperity, perfect liberty forevery
| individual to obey the dictates of his
conscience, in relation to the Almigh
ty what profpe&s of advantage will
arise, to induce our brethren who inha
bit less happy climes, to fettle in France,
a country favoured by nature, as soon
as they learn that you have granted them 1
the famecivil andreligious liberty which
they enjoy in England and the United '
States of America.
Such is the refpc&ful petition we
have new found our hearts disposed -
toprefentto you, for the relief of our
brethren in France, and for the good of
a country which we love. We hope
among your important engagements in
reforming this great'empire, and mul- |
tiplying the sources of its happiness, you
will extend your juftjee and regard to i
us and our children : it willbrmg upon
you the reward of the Amighty, and the
love of virtuous men. '
(
ANSWERof the PRESIDENT. '
Quakers, who have fled from per- t
fecutors and tyrants, cannot but address
with confidence those legidators who i
have, .or the firfl time in made i
the rights-os mankind the basis-os law. t
And France, now reformed. France, in t
the bosom of peace, (which (he will al- f
Ways conlider herfeif bound to revere, i
and which she wishes to all other nati- i
ons) may become another happy Penn- i
fylvania.
" As a system of philanthropy, we (
adopt your principles. They remind c
us, that the origin of every society was 1
a family united by its manners, its affec- i
tions, and its wants ; and deubtlefs those I
would certainly be the most sublime in- ,
, ftitvtiohs, Which- would rerknv the fiu
■ man race, and bring them . back to this
" primitive and virtuous original.
" The examination of your principles
• as a matter of opinion, no longpr con
■ cerns us : we have decided on that Doint.
- There is a kind of property which no
: man would put into the common stock :
- the motions of his foul, the freedom of
; his thought. In this sacred domain,
i man is placed in a hierarchy far above
, the social state. As citizen, he mult
: adopt a form of government :—but, as
; a thinking being, the universe is his
: country. j
i "As principles of religion, your doc
: trines will net be the fubjeft of our de-
I liberation. The relation of every man
i with the Supreme Being, is independ
ent of all political institutions. Be
; tween God and the heart of man, what
; government would dare to interpose !
" As civil maxims, your claims mull
- be fubmitt'ed to the difcuflion of the le
. giflative body. We will examine whe
r ther the forms you oblerve in order to
t ascertain births and marriages, be fuffi
; cient to authenticate those descents
j which the division of property renders
- indifpenlible, independently of good
customs.
" We will consider whether a de
: claratioji, fubjettto the penalties against
) falie witnesses and perjury, be not in
. fact an oath.
j " Worthy citizens, you have already
t taken that civic oath which every man
r deserving of freedom hath thought a
. privilege rat vr than adqty.
You have not taken God to witness,
r but you have appeale.dto your conscien
ces. And is not a pure conscience a
heaven without a cloud ? Is not that
- p art of man a ray of the Divinity p
r " You alio fay, that one of yourre
i ligious tenets forbids you to take up
. arms, or to kill, on any pretence what
(oever. It is certainly a noble philofo
■ phical principle, which thus does a kind
■ of homage to humanity. But consider
well, whether the defence of yourselves,
• and your equals, be not also a religious
duty"? You would then have been over
powered by tyrants ! Since we have
procured liberty for you, and. for our
selves, why fhouid you refufe to pre
serve it ?
" Had your brethren in Pennsylvania
been less remote from the savages,
would they have fuffcred their wives,
their children, their parents, to be mas
sacred rather than refill ? And are not
stupid tyrants, and ferocious conquer*
ors, also lavages ?
•' The aflembly will, in its wifdorn,
consider all your requests. But when
-1 ever I meet a Quaker I shall fay,'
" My brother, if thou haft a right to
be free, thou haft a right to prevent any
one from making thee a Have.
" As thou loveft thy fellow-creature,
fuffer not a tyrant to deilroy him : It
would be killing him thyfclf.
Thou delireft peacc—but. consider
weakness invites war—general" resist
ance would prove an universal peace.
■ u TheAll'embly invites you to flay its
fitting."
To the President, Senate and Hoafc of Re
presentatives of the United States in
Congnfs ajfiwbl d:
The Memorial and Address ox the peo
ple called Quakers,
Refpectfully Jhetveth,
That deeply affe&ed with the great
effufion of human blood, and the {laugh
ter of our fellow men in the late contests
with the Indian natives, we sincerely
lament the miseries anddiftreffes which
these mournful circumstances have pro
duced, and may be yet further encreaf
ed; ii the fame hostile meafurcS are con
tinued.
conceive it to be our duty, and a
mong our rights as citizens, to suggest to
yoifour painful feelings on the fubjeft :
A lerious and deep consideration of its
importance, being among the most in- J
terefting objects that can claim the atten
tion of the guardians of the public wel
fare ; we, therefore ardently dehre, that
under the influence of true wifdorn, you'
may be dire&cd to pursue such pacific
measures as have been heretofore expe
rienced to be salutary and effectual in
securing peace and fnendfhip with the
original owners of this land, whose re
ligious inftruttion and civilization, if
rightly promoted, may fend to this de
finable end ; —believing the blefling of
a righteous God, who mad# of oneblood all nations of men, will be gra
cioullv vouchfafed to those, who, on the
principles of justice and incrty, uf<
their endeavours to prevent the shed
ding of human blood, and to promote
love and peace among men.
Signed in and on behalf of a meetirn
appointed to represent our religious so
ciety in Pennsylvania, Ncw-Jerfey.
Delaware, and parts of Maryland anc
Virginia, held in Philadelphia the 16 th
day of the 12th month, 1791.
Signed ,
SAM. EMLENi
x and forty others,
PHILADELPHIA,
December 29.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, December 26.
The bill for eife&ing a contract be
tween the United States and the (late
of Pennsylvania far the purchase o
lands bordering on Lake Erie, was reac
a third time, palled, and lent to the Se
nate for their concurrence.
Several petitions were read, whicl
being referred tor further consideration
the House then proceeded, in commit
tee of the whole, on the bill for efta
bUttiing the Poft-Office and Pod-Road
within the United States.
After fotne time spent therein, tin
committee rose, reported progress it
the bill, andfeveral amendments, whicl
were read and ordered to lie on the ta
ble.
A letter was then read from the Se
crctary of the Treasury, accompanying
his report on the petition of Catharirti
Greene, relist of the late Major Genera
Nathaniel Greene. To be committee
to a committee of the whole Houie or
Thursday next.
Tuesday, Dec. 27.
A petition of fundrv merchants anc
others of the town of Warren in th<
Hate of Rhode I Hand, was read, prayinj
that a weekly poll may be efhabiiihec
by law from Newport to Boston
through Bristol, Taunton' and Warren
and a pod office in the laid town o
Warren.
The House proceeded to consider th<
amendments reported by the committee
of the whole House, yederdav, to the
bill for edablifhing the pod office anc
poll roads within the United Slates, anc
having made some progress therein, ai
adjournment was called for.
— 1 ■■■■!■
The Bank of the United States, in this city
has resolved that the discounts in future be madi
onTuefdavand Friday, andthat the rotesorbill
otfered for dilcount, be presented at the Bank 01
Monday and Thurfdav.
The inhabitants of Vermontliav« it in con'rm
. piation to ere£t a univtifity in the town ot Bur
iinglon, in thatfiate; and their new acadein;
at Williamftown is to be converted into a Col
The fubfcriplion book for opening the canD
and lock navigation between the rtveis Schuyl
kill and Sufquehanna, by the waters of Tulpe
hoeken, Quitapahilla and Swietara in the couti
tics of Berks and Dauphin,having been kept opei
for fifteen days, agreeable to law, were doled 01
Saturday lad.
Last Saturday, some Gentlemen, with a ver;
accurate inflrument, found the highest part o
Vine-flreet 37 feet 4 inches above the maik o
high water St Vine-flreet wharf; and 38 feet ani
ail half above the tide of that day ; not tuentv-fe
vmfcet, as mentioned in' cur )a(! ; which (lay
the General Advntijer)\%, piobabiy, a random ef
rimate made fifty years ago.
The Brig Philadelphia, Waters, from Charief
ton, is artived at Reedy libnd ; wiih wborr
fame passengers five Indian chiefs, of the Creel
nation, one young man and a woman. Mr. Ca
rey, their Interpreter arrived here on Tuefda;
last, anti the Chiefs yesterday. '1 he brig is de
tained below by the ice, great quantities ol whicl
are floating in the river, but may be expefledtc
disappear in a few days, (hould the present un
commonly mild weather continue.
We hear that Mr. Tho. Pinckney, of South
Carolina, is nominated by the President of theL'ni
ted States Minister Plenipotentiary to the couit o
London ; Mr. Gouverneur Motris Minifler Ple
nipotentiary to the court of France ; and Mr,
William Short resident at the Hague.
On Monday-last, in the House of Rcptefenta
tives of the United States, the Pofi-offce anc
Pofi-Road Bill was reported with amendments :
on considering the 22d. and 23d. feftions of tht
bill, it was agreed, that newlpapers conveyed ir
the mail under cover, fhali be open at one enc
for the purpofc ol intpcftion, and (hall be fubjefl
• to a pollage of one ccnt eath to- arty diaanc
; .lot exceeding one hundicd inrles, and for an
> greater dicta, ce a cent and an half l —that th
_ neivlpapers (hall be carried m fcparate bagsftoi l
s the letters ; and that fiftv per cent on the poftag
(hall be allowed to the deputy. wh
deliver them.
> ,-
Extratt of a Utter from, fort Hamilton, dated M
« iJtinker 10, 1791.
[ " Before this reaches you, the account of' th
i late expedition, with the misfortunes attendan
thereon, will, no doubt, be published inthenewl
papers—or at ieaft partially so.
41 In my Last I mentioned to you an accounto
every day's march, with a a»aft of our route, &c
hut as all my papers and baggage fell into th<
■ hands of the enemy, this is out of my power
The army had advanced within about to miles o
the Aiimce towns (perhaps a shorter thffance)an<
on the morning of the 4th, were attacked by fhi
lavages tfn all fides. The engagement Toon be
came general, and in a few minutes many officer
and men were cut off. The fire of the enem)
was chiefly dire&ed at the officers, who were dif
tinguifhed by their dress. They rCifhed on th<
artillery heedless of their fire, and took two pie
ces in an mflant. They were again retaken bj
our troops ; and whenever the artny charged th-:
. enemy, they were seen to give way, and ad vane*
. again as soon as they began to retreat, doinj
p great execution, both in the retreat and advance.
I They are very dextrous in covering themfelvej
with trees ; many of them however fell, both b\
the infantry and artillery. After ihe army hac
been engaged for near two hours, most of tb<
1 officers being killed or wounded, and the mer
, continuing to fall at every fire, the general order
■ ed the remainder of the army ro charge and
. break through the enemy, which effe&ed- 1 -
. a retreat then took place. The savages puifue*
four or five miles; and in this distance, no doubt
killed many of the wounded and others. Ne*
to the brave officers and men who~£*il, I regie
1 the loss of the artillery : fix or eight pieces fel
1 into their hands* with about four hundred horses
■ ali the baggage, ammunition, and provision of ths
army. This is a fatal ftrokc to the United State:
■ —so much so, thai it will be difficult to eflabhf!
• hereafter what might have been done this cam
. paign with little expence, had proper arrange
ments been made
44 It was so late in the season before the arm)
took the woods, that all the forage was deftroyee
bv the froft; neither cattle or horses could lub
no, which obliged the army to move flow, am
gave the cnemv t.me to collect. Indepcnden
of this, we seldom had more than two, three, 61
tour days' flour on hand at a time: this create*
great uneasiness in the army. On the 31ft Oct,
. a number of the militia deserted and abon
three o'clock on the fame day, the
\yas detached on the road leading to fort AVaft*
ington, and did not again join the army until ano
ther x£Xslau laaeed,-I tiuA>>& it-a f€W4unate cir-
J cumflance that they were detached'; for, had the}
been there, they would only have ierved to. fwel
the numbers of slain, and made the facrifice or
our part greater. Six hundred well choten ri
flemen from the frontiers of Pennsylvania, Ver
mont, and Virginia, would have done more eXe
cution than all our force combined together
t The army mufl now be new modeled; and!
hope it may chiefly confifl of riflemen and wel
appointed ca\ aliv—fuch as 1 have already men
tioned, wh lam sure will not serve far two dol
lnrs per month—what a pitiful efoblifhpient
True, men may be enlifled tor that lum, to maki
up numbers, destroy provisions, and enrich th<
enemy." i
The following is the tronfiulion of a Frenc' fatter
from a gentleman in Baltimore, who hadjvft ar
rived from Portau- Prince, to his friend in tin
cit y> . , .
On the 2»fl Nov. wc were in peace and quiet
ness when the mulattoes applied to the munici
pali ty to give them their privileges agreeabii
i tofeveral articles of the late treaty between them
next day, the 2«d, the cjueflion was taken up b}
the municipality, and a large majority was in fa
vor of granting ihem the privileges demanded
but the minority opposed, and got to their aflift
ance a body of the people of the town, whei
they were thus collected, met one of the fre<
people of colour who they took and immediatelj
executed., Upon the mulattoes hearing this
thev beat the general, and paiaded in a large bod\
with their arms, they marched to the governmen'
yard, the 2d Port au-Prince regiment paradec
and an . £tion began which lasted for a conHdera
! hie time, when the mulattoes set fire to the towr
I in fevetal places, the wind being westerly anc
• high, the flames spread tbiouahout the town witll
a making rapidity, and did notflop until 32 fquarej
at leaf), rhout (even eighths of the city was
flrofed, the inhabitants were in the greatefl con.
fufien, rot knowing where to run or put theii
heads—every thing wa* destroyed, no one being
able to save any thing—the whole of the sugar,
coffee, molasses, provisions, &c. which were in
the stores, were totally de.ftioved, and the imall
part of the town which escaped the flames wai
plundered: the vessel which brought this account,
left Port-au Prince ihe day after the fire, at whicl
time the mulattoes were in poflelfion of a hill jud
behind the town.
The fafety of the whole lfland was confwZerec
to be in great danger, the vessels in the harboi
were unhurt.
LetJers.from fort Wafnington mention, thai
general St. Clair received eight balls through hi:
hat and clothes, during the bloody contefi witl
the Indians on the 4th of lafl month, that In
was the only officer on that was no
killed or wounded in the bitllc, General Butki
fcIJ whilfl he wai converting '.villi Iris fiirgcor
who Hood by him when ihot pierced his fool
as he lay on the ground. This gallant officei
and hero died beloved and lamented by all whe
knew him* He served with uncommon repara
tion daring tfoe late war. He entered the Bri
tifh lines at Saratoga among the foremofl of th<
American troops, and shared with general Mor
gan in all rhe dangers and honors of thecam-aigr
of 1777. In private life he was fnodeil, gentle,
and just. An amiable widow, and several
children, together with an aged father and five
brothers (the lad of whom were all bred to armsj
will long, very long lament in him the loss of the
kirjdeft fr end and tenderell relation.
We cari infojm our friends from thebeO au
thority, that in the late action of the 4th Nov.
under major-general St. Clair, the following gal
lant condu6l 6f ma or Butler, who commanded
one of the bartallTons of levies from this state,
took place—the major having received the wound
which broke his leg, he retired to be drelied, anri
the moment it-was over, gothimfelf upon a horse
and returned to his battalion, and continued with
it until it was Ordered to retire.
£RF(ATUM in M-r. Burke's Appeal from the
m e vV to the old Whig*.—
Infield'of the following passage (New-York
edition t page 79) v.'x. - w They [ the mt- rs of
England j have before-their eyes the example of
a monarch, insulted, degraded, confined, deposed ;
his family dlfperfed, f'cattered, imprisoned ; his
wife insulted to his face like the vikft of the sex,
by the vile# of all populace ; himfelf three times
dragged by these wretches in an infamous tri
umph ; his children torn from him, in violation
of the lirfl right of nature* and given into the tu
ition of the meft desperate and impious of the
leaders of desperate and impious clubs; his reve
nues dilapidated and plundered ; Mis magjferttes
murdered; his clergy prosCribed, pcrfecuted, fa
miflied; his nobility degraded in their rank, un
done in their fortunes, fugitives in their persons ;
his armies corrupted and ruined £ his whole peo
pie impoverished, disunited, dissolved; whilfl
ihrough the bars of his prison, and amidst the
bayonets of his keeper.!, he hears.the tumult of
two conflicting factions, equally wicked and
abandoned, who agree in principles, iri disposi
tions, and in objects, but who tear each other to
pieces about the irioft effe&ual means of obtain
ing their cortimon end; the one contending to
prefervefor a while his name and his person, the
more easily to deflroy the royal authority—ths
other clamoring to cut off the. name, the person,
and the monarchy together, by one sacrilegious
Execution. All this accumulation of calamity,
the grcateft that ever fell upon one man, has fall
en upon his head, because he hast left his virtues
unguardedby caution; because he was not taught
that where power is concerned, he who will con
fer benefits must take iecurity against ingrati
tude'
/RJirAt)—They ~f the pttp e of England] b?ve
before their eyes the example of a people no long
er insulted, degraded and confined by their mo
narch ; their families no longer dispersed, fcatter
£d, imprisoned; their wive* no longer insulted
and -debauched by the vilest instruments of the
vdeft delpotifm ; thcmfe f ves no longer dragged
by the fame wretches in infamous triumph ; treir
cfuldren no longer torn from them, in violation
bf the fir 11 rights of nature, and given into the
military discipline of the dissolute ahd impious
leaders of a difi'olute and impious soldiery ; deir
revenues no longer dilapidated and plundered ;
no longer murdering the inno.
Cent p.nd pfote&ing the guilty; tbefr clergy no
longer proicrib'ing, persecuting and fleecing them ;
an infolert nobility at length degraded from their
usurped rank, limited to their ju.ft fortunes, fugi
tives only from their country's happiness ; thi.it
armies no longer corrupted and turned against
themselves \ the whole body of the people, no
longer enfiaved, defoifed ; whilst
within the. bars of tijc baftile, and the bayonets
of its keeper*, the innocent victim of minifierial
vcngeanceor female caprice,will nevermore await
the result of caurtly factions, equally wicked and
abandoned, who agree in principles, in difpofi
tiont., and in objtdls, but who differ about the
moll effectual means of obtaining their common
end ; the one contending to preserve for a while
his life and his misery, the maze fully to difptay
the triumph of royal authority; the other cla
moring, to cut off the hopes, the delays and the
person, together, by one sacrilegious exeetltion.
All this accumulation of benefit, the greafteft that
ever fell upon one people, has fallen upon the
people of Francej because they no longer left their
Virtues unguarded by caution , because they are hoh
*augiit that, where power is conferred, thofexvhi
'xpetl benefits from it mufi take security againfl in
gratitude.
- — m 111 niwranrgß——■"■ * ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ —
TrcnJlaticns from Paris Papers, to October 12.
PARIS, October 7—12.
The DireSors of the Social-Circle Printing
Press in this city, dnxioits to contribute all in
:heir pov.er to the more general dissemination of
1 hai immortal effort of human reason, the New
Conflitutiqn of France, have lately put to press a
polyglott orgeneial tranfletion thereof into all
he languages of Europe. The typographical
part is to be executed with the molt scrupulous
attention, that it may not in that refpeft dilgrace
the tianflations which will be made under the in-
Ipefticm of a man of acknowledged learning and
merit, andcntrulied by him into the hands ol
such persons as he ilia!l judge properly qualified
in the several languages into which it is 'o be
transferred. Each tranflaticn will be fold fepa
ratdy. The EngliOi will appear this week, and
the others fucceflrvely 6n<fe a fortnight. Thcfe
translations when, bound up into one volume
will, it is hoped, become a claiflic for the study of
different languages.
The following animated sentiments are taken from
the Bijhopof Paris's circular letter, pubhfled on
the 25 oj September—
IC The simple and majeOic edifice of our new
3ov£rnment is now firmly cftablifhcd upon the
uins ol feudal tyranny, odious chicanery, defpo
ic sway, afrd every other species of unrelfrained
Dower that have in all ages crushed the genius
A the French nation. The who eof this confti
ufion di splays to the view of man all that can be
vifhed for to render him happy in a state of fo
:iety, by an equal mixture of morals, politics,
md religion. Let us cherish, then, under the
relation of christians and citizens, this
precious conflitution, which seems to be thr
»ofpel 1 tfelt transferred, for the happiness of
France, to the code of her civil government,
For a long time we were governed .by the Rc
nans; then conquered by the Franks who obi -
jed us to become Christians, afterwa r ds ruled by
imbitiou9 usurpers of the throne—enjoying a
hort interval of happiness under Charlemagne;
rulhed under the fall of this prince's family, and
>owed down under the weight of the feudal fyf
ern ; rising a little Under Louis the I2ith, only
0 fall lower still under h:s luecefTorS, and endure
he (hackles of defpoiifm or aniiocracy, which
ver happened to before the
nemorable era of the present revolution, pof
cflqd a government void of form and order, a
>arbaious mode of legislation, and, in fa£l, no
onfhtution a: all.
1 hanks to the labors of the national aflembly,
has beamed forth f rom the bosom of chaos.
3ur political duties are now so plainly
hat He w 0 runs'ma) read'. FranCe is free ; the
►eopleare the sovereign; the king is only a king
ihile he obeys the constitution. We acknow
ledge no authority superior to the law 1 the king
•nly reigns by the law, and ft is only in the name
it the Jaw that he can exact obedience fiom the
eople. This law is made by the temporary re*
uelentatives of the nation, depositaries of the
cgiilative authority and the mouths of the public
rill of the people."
Th/e COUNTRY PRINTER.
[Continued]
THE OFFICE.
SOURCE of the wifdam of the country round,
Again I turn to that poor lonely filed
Where many an author all hit fame has found,
And wretched proofs by candlc-hght are read,
Invented letters, lift the page to grace,
Colons derang'd, and Commas out of place.
Beneath this roof the Mdfrs-chofetheirhome;—
Sad was'their choice, less bookish ladies fay,
Since from the blcfled hourtheydei n'dto corns
One single cob-web was not biufh'd awav :—
F*jte early had ptonoune'd this building's doom
Ne'er to be plagu'd with boonder, Druth, or
broom.
Here, full in view, the ink-befpsngled press
Give? to the world its children, with a groan,
Some born tohve a month—a day— some less.
Some, why they live at all, not clearly known,
All that art born miiji die—TYft, well knows
that—
The almanack's his longefi-living brat."
Here lie the fypes, in curious order rang'd
Ready alike to imprint your prose or veffe ;
Ready to speak [their order only chang'd]
Creek-Indian Lingo, Dutch, or Highland erse;
1 hefe types have punted £:(k\ne's.Go/pel Treaty
Tom Durfy's songs, and Bunyan's works com
plete.
Bui faded are their charms—their beauty fled !
No more their work your nicer eyes admire ;
Hence, from thisprels no courtly fluff is read
But almanacks and ballads for the Squire,
Dull paragraphs in homely language drefs'd
I hi pedla'r'i bifl, and sermons by request.
Here doom'd the fortune of the press to try
FrOmyear to year poor TYPE his trade pursues—
With anxious care and circumfpe£tive eye
He drefles out his little sheet Of news ;
Now laughing at the world now looking grave,
At oncc the Mule's midwife—and her slave.
[To be continued.]
■ " ' • ■ • -*
JUST PUBLISHED,
and for sale by
THOMAS LANG,
No. st, Church alley ;
An EUay on
COMMERCE and LUXURY.
R.e-printed from the Londan edition—Price 1/6.
The merit of this Work will be acknow
ledged by every judicious reader. The re-pubJi
:ation of it in this country, at this time, has been
advised by several enlightened patriots. These
wish to promote our n-ational commerce, on the ba
sis of agriculture suid.induftry, a*d free frorn the
base alloy of imposition and gaming. They set
proper value on the conveniences and ornaments
of civiHzeo life ; but deleft that luxury which is
the ofTivnng cf a fiivolous taltr, and the mother
of profligacy, dishonesty, poverty, of r jmber
lefs private and public vice* and misfortunes.
Nov. ?.Z.Sfcliibits & iafgejrtop&cion of ingenious and valua
ble workmen, in different arts and trades, who, by
expatriating from Europe, have improved their
r n condition, and added to the induftrjr and
wealth of the United States* It is a natural in
ference from the experience, We ha*e already had,
that as soon as the United States shall present the
countenance of a serious prosecution of manufac
tures, as soon as foreign artists shall be made sen
sible that the state of things here affords a moral
certainty of employment and encouragement, com
petent numbers of European workmen will trans
plant tliemfelves, effectually to ensure the success
of the design. How indeed can it otherwile hap
pen conlidering the various and powerful induce
ments, which the situation of this country offers j
addressing themselves to so many strong pafiions
and feelings, to so many general and particular in
terests i
Jt may be affirmed therefore, in respeCt to hand's
for carrying on manufactures, that we shall in
a great measure trSde upon a foreign stock ; re
serving our own, for the cultivation of our lands,
and the manning of our (hips ; as far as charatter
and circumstances fhail incline. It is not unwor
thy of remark, that the objeCttoh to the success of
manufactures, deduced from thefcartity us hands,
as alike applicable to trade and navigation, and
yet these are perceived to flourifli, without an\
sensible impediment from thatcaufe*
As CO the deamefs of labor (another of the ob
ffacles alledged) this has relation principally to
two circumstances j one that which ha? been just
difcuflVd, or the scarcity of hands j the other, the
greatness of profits.
As far as it is a confequerice of the scarcity of
Jhands, it is mitigated by all the confederations
Which have been adduced as leflening that defici
ency. It is certain too, that the disparity in this
refpeCt., between some of tiie molt manufacturing
£arts of Europe and a large ot the Uni
ted States, is not nearly so great as is commonly
imagined. It is also much less in regard to artifi
cers and manufacturers than in regard to country
laborers; and while a careful comparfon sheWs,
that there is, in this particular, much exaggera
tion ; it is also evident that the effeCt of the degree
of difpariry which does truly exist, is diminished
in proportion to the use which can be made of ma
chinery.
To illustrate this last Idea—Let it be fuppbfed,
that the difference of price, in two countries, of a
given quantity of manual labor lequifite to the fa
brication of a given article is as ten ; and that
some mechanic power »9 introduced into both
countries, wnich performing half the neceflary la
bor, leaves only half to be done by hand, it is evi-
that the difference in the cost us the fabrica
tion of the article in question, in the two coun
triet, as far as it is conneCted with the price of
labor, will be reduced from ten to five, in conse
quence of the introduction of that joweh.
This circiiiftftance is Worthy of the most parti
cular attention. It diminishes immensely one of
the most urged, against the
success of manufactures in the United States.
To procure all such machines as are fcnown in
any part of Europe, can only require a proper pro
vision and due pains. The knowledge of f-veral
of the most important of them is already pofieff d.
The preparation of them here, is in most casts
practicable on nearly equal terms. As far as they
depend on water, lome superiority of advantages
may be claimed, from the uncommon variety and
greater cheapness of fituation9 adapted to miU
feats, with which different parts of the United
States abound.
So far as the dearnefs of labor may be a confe
rence of the greatness of profits in any branch of
business, it is no obftacie to its fuccefi. The
undertaker can afford to pay the price.
There are grounds to conclude that undertakers
of manufactures in this country can at this time
afford to pay higher wages to the workmen they
may employ than are paid to IrmHar workmen in
Europe. The prices of fabrics, in the
markets of the United States, whick will for a long
time regulate the prices of th£ domestic ones, may
be considered as compounded of the following in
gredients. The firft cost of materials, including
the taxes, if any, which are paidupon tnem where
fhey are made ; the expence of grounds, buildings,
machinery and tools; the wages of the persons
employed in the manufactory 5 the profits on the
capital or flock employed 5 the commifiions ol
agents to purchaf; them whe're they are made j
the expence of transportation to the United States,
Including insurance and other incidental charges}
the taies tfr duties, if artj*, and fees of office which
are paid on their exportation j the taxes or duties,
and fees of office which are paid on their impor
tation.
As to the firft of these items, the cost of mate
mis, the advantage, upon the whole", is at piefen 1 .
ortthefideof the United States, and the differ
ence, in their favor, must encreale, in proportion
as a certain and extensive domestic demand shall
induce the proprietors of land to devote more o>
their attention to the production of those materi
als. It ought not to escape observation, in a
comparison on this point, that fomfc of thfe principal
manufacturing countries of Europe are much mor«
depehdent on foreinn supply for the materials ol
their manufactures, than wotild be the Unitec
States, who are capable of fopplying themselves
with a greater abundance, as well as a greater va
riety of the requisite materials.
As to the second item, the expence of grounds,
buildings, machinery and tools, an equality may
at least be alfumed ; since advantages in some par
ticulars will counterbalance temporary difadvanti
ges in others.
As to the third item, or the article of wages,
the comparison certainly turns against the Unitec
States j though as before observed, not in so giea
a degree as is commonly supposed.
The forth item is alike applicable to the foreigr
and to the domestic manufacture. It is indeec
more properly a result than a particular, to bi
compared.
But with respeCt to all the remainingitems, the}
aie alone applicable to the foreign manufacture
and in the ftriCtefl sense extraordinaries ; confti
tuting a fern of extra charge on the foreign fabric
which cannot be estimated at less than from n
to jajfCr CCnt on the cost of «C *t the manufactory
This sum of extra charge may confidently be
regarded as more than a counterpoile tor the rea)
difference in the price 0/ labor j and is a fatisfac
tory proof that manufactures may prosper in defi
ance of it in the United States.
To the geneial allegation, connected with the
circumstances of scarcity of hands and dearnefs ol
labor, that extensive manufactures can only grow
3ut of a redundant or full population, it will b«
fufficient, to answer generally, that the faCt has
seen otherwise.—That the situation alledged tc
>e an efrential condition of success, has not beer
hat of several nations, at periods when they had
ilready attained to maturity iD a variety of manu
factures.
The supposed Want of capital for the prosecution
)f manufactures in the United States, is the mofl
indefinite of the objections which are ulualiy op
j>ofea to it.
It is very difficult to pronounce any thing pre
:ife concerning the real extent of the monied capi
tal of a country, and ft'ill more concerning the pro
jortion which it bears to the objeCts that invite
:he employment of capital. It if not Jess difficult
:b pronounce how fai the effirff of any given quan
:ity of money, as capital, or in other words, as a
medium for circulating the industry and property
>f a nation, may be encreafed by the very circum
tance of the additional motion, which is given to
tby new objeCt6 r>f employment. That effeCl.
ike the momentum of descending bodies, may not
mproperly be represented, as in a compound ratio
:o maj's and velocity, Ii seems pretty certain, that
1 given sum of money, in a situation, in which the
juick Itripuffet of commercial activity were little
elt, would appear inadequate to the circulation of
is great a quantity of industry and property, as in
*ne, in which their full influence was experienced.
Jt is not obvious, why the fame objection might
lot 2s well be made to external commerce as to
manufactures J since it is manifelt that our im
nenfe traCts of land, occupied and unoccupied, are
:ap*ble of giving employment to more capital than
s actually bestowed upon them. It is certain,
hat the United States offer a vast field for the ad
vantageous employment ofcapital, but it does not
"oilow, that there will not be found, in one way or
mother, a fufficient fund, for thefuccefsful prose
:ution of any lpecies of indultry which is likely to
>rove truly beneficial.
The following confederations are of a nature to
emove all inquietude on the score of want of ca
pital.
The introduction of banks, as has been fliewn
>n another octafiob, has a powerful tendency to
'Xtend the aCtive capital of a country. Experi
:nce of the utiiity of these institutions is multiply
ng them in the Uni:ed States. It is probable that
hey will be eftabliihed wherever they can exist
vith advantage; a d wherever they can be fup
>ol ted, if administered with prudence, they will
idd new energies to all pecuniary operations.
The aid ot foreign capital may fafely, and with
:onfiderable latitude be taken Into calculation,
ts instrumentality has been long experienced in
>ur external commerce j and it has begun to be
elt in various other modes. Not only our funds
>ut our agriculture and other internal improve
fients have been animated by it. It has already,
n a few iriftances, extended even to our manufact
ures;
Jt is a well known faCt, that there are parts of
idrope, which have more capital, than profitable
lomeftic objects of employment. Hence, among
•ther proofs, the large loans continually furnifhed
0 fdreign ttates. And it is equally certain that
be capital of other parts may find more profitable
mployment in the Uni'ed States, than at home.
\nd nocwithftanding theie are weighty iaduce
nents to prefer the employment of capital at home,
ven atlefs. profit, to ast investment of it abroad,
hough with greater gain, ye: these inducements
,re over-ruled, either by a deficiency of employ
nent, or by a very material difference in profit.
sotb these causes operate to produce a transfer of
oreign capital to the United States. 'Tis Certain,
hat various objeCts in this country holdout ad-
which are with difficulty to be equalled
ifewhere ; and under the encreafingly favorable
mprefiions, which are entertained of our govern
rent, the attractions will become more and more
trong. These impressions will prove a rich mine
if prosperity to the country, if they are confirmed
tnd strengthened by the progress of our affairs.
\nd to l'ecure this advantage, little more is necef
ary, than to fofter industry, and cultivate oider
nd tranquility, at home and abroad.
It is not impossible, that there may be persons
ifpofed to look with a jealous eye on the intru
uCtton of foreign capital, as if it were an inftiu
pent to deprive our own citizens of the profits of
ur own iridultry : But perhaps there never could
>e a more unreasonable jealousy. Jnttead of be
ng viewed as a rival, it ought to be considered as
molt valuable auxiliary ; conducing t<> put in
notion a greater quantity of productive labor, anO
greater portion of ufeful enterpiife, than could
xift without it. It is at least evident, that in a
ountry situated like the United States, with an
•ifinite fund of resources, yet to be unfolded, eve
y farthing of foreign capital, which is laid out in
nternal ameliorations, arid in industrious eflablifh
ments of a permanent nature, is a precious ac
-Ijlli ti 4
And whatever be the objeCh which originally
ittract foreign capital, when once introduced, *11
nay be directed towards any purpose of beneficia
xertion, which is desired. And to detain ii
.mong-us, there can be no expedient so effectual
is to enlarge the sphere, within which it may b<
lfefully employed : though introduced merelj
-vith views to speculations in the funds, it may as
rerwards be rendered fu-bfervient to the interelb o
agriculture, commerce and manufactures.
But the attraction of foreign capital for the di
reCt purpose of manufactures ought not to bi
deemed a chimerical expectation. There are al
ready examples of it, as remarked in anothe
place. And the examples, if the difpofit.on b<
cultivated, can hardly fail to multiply. Then
are also instances of another kind, which serve u
strengthen th» expectation ; enterprises for im
proving the public communications, by cutting
jnals, opening the obstruCtions in Tivers, an<
eieCting bridges, have received very material an
from the fame foorce.
When tlie mantifaflurir£ capitalist of Europe
lhall advert to the many important advantages,
which have been intimated, in the coutfe ol this
report, he cannot but perceive very powerful in
ducements to a transfer ot himfelt and his capital
to the United Stales. Among the refledhons,
which a molt interefling peculiarity of situation is
calculated to fuggell, it cannot escape his observa
tion, as a circumltance cut moment in the calcula
tion, that the progiefiiVe population and improve
ment of the United States, eiifure a continually
encreafing domeiVic demand fur the fabrics which
he (hall produce, not to be atf'cflcd by any exter
nal casualties or viciliitudes.
But while there are circurnftances fufficiently
llrong to authorise a considerable degree of reli
ance on the aid of foreign capital, towards the at
tainment of the objeif in view, it is fatirfaftory to
have good grounds ot allurance, that there »redo
meftic relouices of themselves adequate to it. It
Happens, that there is a species of capital, attually
existing within the United States, which relieves
from all inquietude on the score ot want of capi
tal—This is the funded debt.—•
The effedl ot a funded debt, as a species of capi
tal, has been noticed upon a tormer occasion ; but
a more particular elucidation ot the point seems to
be required by the ltrefs which is here laid upon
it——l his ihall accordingly be attempted.
Public funds answer the purpole ot capital, from
the eltimation in which they are usually held b*
monied men ; and confequenlly from the cafe and
dil'patch with which they can turned into mo
ney. This capacity oi'prompt convertibility into
money causes a transfer of stock to be in a great
number of cases equivalent to a pa) ment in com—
And where it does not happen to suit tile party
who is to receive, to accept a transfer of ftoclc,
the party who is to pay, is never at a loss to find
elsewhere a purchaferof his llock, who will lumi/ii
him in lieu of it, with the coin of which he itands
in need.
Hence in a found and fettled (fate of the public
unda, a man poiTefied of a sum in them can em
irate any scheme of business, which offers, with as
nuch confidence as if he wete pollelled of an
qual sum in coin:
'1 his operation of public funds, as capital, is too
>bvious to be denied : but it is objected to the
dea of their operating as an augmentation of the
apital of the community, that they feive to occa
ion the JtJiruSim of some other capital to an
qual amount.
The capital which alone they can be supposed
0 dellroy, mud consist of —The annual revenue,
vhich is applied to the payment of interest on
he debt, and to the gradual redemption of the
irincipal— The amount of the coin, which is em
ployed in circulating the funds, or, in oihei
vords, in effefling the different alienations which
hey undergo.
But the following appears to be the true and
iccurateview of this matter —
lft. As to the point of the annual revenue re
juiGtc lot payment of interell and redemption e
1 unci pal.
As a determinate proportion will tend to pef
picuity in the reasoning, let it be luppofed tha'
he annual revenue to be applied, correlpondint
A'ith the modification ol the 6 per cent. Hock o:
he United States, is in the ratio of eight upor
he hundred; that is, in the fiift instance, fixot
iccount of interell, and two on account of prin
ripal.
Thus far it is evident, that the capital deflrtfy
•.<} to the capital created, would bear no greatei
voportion than Bto 100. There would be with
irawn from the total rnafs of other capitals a fun
)f eight dollars to be paid to the public creditor,
while he would be poilcffed ol a turn of one hun
lred dollars, ready to be applied to any purpose
0 be embarked in any enterpiife, which migh
ippear to him eligible —Heie then the augment
itton of capital, or the excefsofthat which is pro
luced, beyond that which is destroyed, is equa
o ninety two dollars.
To this conclusion it may be ob'efled, that the
Um of eight dollars is to be withdrawn annually
jntil the whole hundred is extinguilhed, and i
nay be inferred, that in process of time a capi
al will be destroyed equal to that which is at hrl
treated.
(To be continued.*)
CHARLES BITTERS,
No. 120,
South Marktt y near Fourth Street,
I3as received from New-York, and manufa<flurec
BY LOT MLRKEL,
A large and General Afiortment of
Muffs Tippets, Trimmings £5
Edgings,
Great Coats, Caps, Mitts & gloves lined with Fur
which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lowest Prices.
M. GARDETTE, Dentijl,
Respectfully intorms the public, thai
he hat removed from No. 88 to No. 127
Cneinut, near Fourth ftrect, neaxly opposite tbi
dank of the United States. Dec. 19
1 his Day are publijhed,
SERMONS,
Hiflorical and Chara£teriftica.l :
By WILLIAM LINN, D. D.
One of the Minjiers of the Reformed Prctrjlar.
Dulch Church, in the city of New-York.
Sold by T. DOBSON & R. CAMPBELL
[Price Three Quarters of a Dollar.]
*** A few copies of the REPORT oj
the Secretary of the Treasury, on thefubjec,
of manufactures, may be had at tit
Office, No. 239, High-Street.
GEORGE M'EADi
HAS FOR SALE,
At his Stores on Walnut-Stb eet Wharf,
A FEW pipes of 3 and 4 years old l(Uis of ex
change Madeira WINE, ivhicb he will dij
pofeof by tbe pipe, hegjhead or quarter cnjk.
Loiidon market MadeiraWlNE,s and t years old.
Old Sherry WINE of the frj} quality*, by the
hog/head or quarter Cask.
"Three and 4 years old Lijbon WINE, of a su
perior quality to what is generally imported, by ii.*
pipe, quarter cask, Or larger quantity.
Choice old Coniac £ RANDY, by the pipe > t':er:s,
or larger quantity.
Afeiu. quarter chcjls of frji quality Hyson TEA*
He has jujl received by the Pigsu, Loxley, majier,
f r om London, a few quarter cajis of old Madeira
WINE—And
By the b>ig Mercury, capt. Stevens, from Dub •
lift, a few boxes of Irijh LINENS, Jc&o pr'ued
and well ajjorttd : a few bales of Red dnd Whue
fL ANN ELS, and fame GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDI R$ of the
firjl quality, and Butnngton PORK of prime quality
He has also to difpoje of a quantity c/ drejjld
Whue Oak STAVES.
he means to keep d cohfiant supply of Firjl Qua
lity Madeira and. Lijbon WINES, and whoever
is pieaj'ed to favor tint 'with their cujlom, may be
aJJured of being well served.
he will through the Winter ar d Spring, buy
undrejjed II AN DSP IKES. He is pur chafing
I LAXSEED aud BEES WAX, and will give
she highejt Price for ih* .
N. B. A few liu >ers of excellent London
POR'i ER and Taunton ALE, jujl arrived and
to be disposed of. tf
ROBERT SM O C K,~
Woollen Draper Iff Mercer,
Has jujl received by the Jbip Pigou, from Lor don,
and for Jale at his Store, on toe north erji corner
of Market and Third jlreets, Phiadepbu,
AN ELEGANT ASSORTMENT OF
SUPERFINE and super broadcloths, in almost
every colour.
Ladies fuperfine h3bit cloths,in the most l"a Alie
nable coloarsi
Superfine calfimers, do.
Do. and super elastic ffriocd cloths.
Vlilled drabs and hunters cJoths.
si variety of fancy Waiitcoating, in fjJk, /ilk and
cotton, lilJc ijiolefkin, cafiimers printed and
tarnbouied, and lupcrii.ic ftripcd Spanilh tciJi.-
nets.
Mens black fattins, florentines, an J li.k pruneHaa
ot superior qualices
iilk, lilk and cotton, cotton and worsted liofc,
allorted.
tattlus aad mantuas, a beautiful variety.
superfine rattinet®, with a .large collection of bel>
triirtonipgs tor cloths, &c. of every quality*
Vlcreens, jjaus ipinning, durants and caliman-
Coe3;
HI airlines and camblets, &c.
}-8 wide fupernnc Marseilles quilting with bor
ders.
Vlai leiiles bedquilts and cotton counterpanes, 9-4
to 12-4.
Glanders bedbunts and bedtickings.
\ beaut.sol variety of chintzes and cottons.
elegant afl" rtment of yard wide furniture
chintzes, in beautiful colours and patterns,
with a large va.iety of furniture cottons.
Velveteens, velvets, torouroys, thicksets, fancy
cords, iiockineis, royal ribs, Jattincis, hair
pluflies, See. See.
• triped and grey, twilled and plain Bath coatings.
Sofe blankets kflortec.
ROBERT SMOCK h s also for a great
Variety of GOODS of ine best ouality in tbeir
everal kinds. He presumes it is unnecelfjry to
ie more particular in the enumeration, and that
t 13 futficifcnC to fay the afTurtment is very g£ne
al and extensive, confiding of abuoil (.very arti
le in his line of buiinefs.— Being delirous of giv
ng entire latisfa&ion to those who may be plea fed
o favour him with their cuftoir., a. well
s cf merit ng a continuance of thole cul
omers, whose favours he has hitherto expeiien
ed, he flatters Jnmfelf the chtapnefs of his Good*
k-'ili be the best means 0/efTedting nis willies.
This day is Published
By CHILDS and SWAINE,
In one Volume Octavo ;
Price One Dollar and a half, the lmail Edition,
and One Dollar and three quarters the large, J
THE
LAWS of the United States.
Collated with, and corrected by the original Rolls
in the Office of the Secretary of State.
With a copious INDEX ; or
\ complete DIGEST of the LAWS ;
(Making 56 pages:)
Executed by an eminent Law Charatter.
To obtain this ufeful and necessary Part of the
Work compete, has retarded the Publication.
This Volume compriz.es the A&s of the Three
Scjfions cf the fir ft Congress ; aJfn, the Federal
Conjlitution, and the Tr.ea'ies bnween the Uniteu
States and Foreign Ndtions--Together with an Ap
pendix, containing the Declaration of Indcpevd
*'• ce, andJundry Ordinances and JRefolves of Con
irejs under the Confederation.
Sold by Childs and Sivaine, No High
flreet, 7homas Dobfcn, Joseph Crukfhank, sr.d
Robert Campbell, Philadelphia.
oSober 25.
A feu Copies of the Report of the Secretary
of State on thcfubjcEl of tkeCod and Whali-
Fijheria—may be had at the off.ee, No. 239
High fir eet.
P RINTE D B Y
CHILDS and SWAINF,
AT THEIR OFFICE, yo. 239, HIGH-STRtXT*
KEAR SIXTH-STREET,
f HIJ.ADELPHIA.