Vol. I.
The SECRETARY of the TREASURY,
in Obtdttnce to the Or air of the House oj
Representatives,of the \f,th Day
of January, 17CO, has applied his At
iention, at as early a Period as his otkt\
Duties would permit, to thefuhjeti of Ma
nij factu ses ; and particularly to th
Means of promoting fitch as will tend ti
render the. United States independen
on foreign Nations, for Military am
other essential Supplies j
AND HE THEREUPON' XtSPICTrBLt.I
submits the foilowing
report.
rT"*HE expediency of encouragini
i manufactures in the United States
which was not long since deemed ven
questionable, appears at this time to b<
pretty generally admitted. Thee " bar
raffments which have obftrufted th.
■prosrefs of our external trade, have let
to serious reflections on the necessity o
enlarging the sphere of our domeftn
commerce: the reftriftive regulations
Which in foreign markets abridge the v en
of the encreafing surplus of our agricul
tural produce, lerve to beget an earnel
desire, that a more extensive demant
for that surplus may be created at home
And the complete success which has ie
warded manufa&uring enterpriie, 11
some valuable branches, confpmnj
with the promifmg symptoms which at
tend some less mature essays in others
iuftify a hope, that the obstacles to th
growth of this species of industry are lei
formidable than they were appiehendee
to be ; and that it is not difficult to hnc
in its further extcnflOD, a full inaemni
f cation for any external disadvantages
-which are or may be experienced, a:
■well as an aecelTion of refouices, tavor
able to national independence anc
There' still are, ne"verthele(s,refpe£la
ble patrons of opinions, unfriendly «
the of manufactures.—
The following are, substantially, the ar
. gumcnts by which these opinions ar<
defended : r ,
« In every country (fay thole whe
entertain them) agriculture is the mo.
beneficial and produFftveobpEtoi humar
industry. This pofit'ion, generally, 1:
not universally true, applies with pecu
liar emphasis to the Unued States, 01
account of theirimmenfe tratts of fertih
territory, uninhabited and unimproved
Nothing can afford so advantageous ar
employment for capital and labor a.
the conversion of this extensive wilder
i»efs into cultivated farms. Nothini
equally with this, can contribute to th«
population, strength and real riches o
Ihe country."
" To endeavor, by tne extraordinary
patronage of government, to accelerate
the growth of manufactures, is, in fatt
to endeavor, by force and art, to tran
fer the natural current of industry, fron
a more to a less beneficial channel
Whatever has such a tendency must ne
ceffarily be unwise: Indeed it can hard
lv ever be wife in a government, to at
tempt to give a direction to the mdui
try of its citizens. Ihis, under the
quick-sighted guidance of pwvatts ia
tereft, will, if left to itfelf, mfallib
find its own way to the mod profitable
employment ; and it is by such employ
ment, that the public prosperity will b
mod effectually promoted. lo leave
industry to itfelf, therefore, is, in al
rnoft every cafe, thefoundeft as well as
the simplest policy."
" This policy is not only recommend
ed to the United States, by confederati
ons which affect all nations; U is, in a
manner, dictated to them by the imperi
ous force of a very peculiar situation,
The fmallnefs of their population, com
pared with their territory, the conltant
allurements to emigration from the let
tied to the unsettled parts of the coun
try : the facility with which the lels in
dependent condition of an artisan can be
exchangedfor the more independent con-
By P HIT. t P FR E NEA U.
MONDAY, DEC&meer 26, 1791*
iition of a farmer ; fhcle, and iimiiat
zaufes, conspire to produce, and for a
ength of time must ContinuetOoccafion,
I scarcity of hands tor manufacturing
occupation, and dearnefs of labor genev
illy. To thele disadvantages for the
irofecution of manufa&ures, a dchcien
:y of pecuniary capital being added,
he profpeft of a fuccefeful competition
Afith the marmfafturefs of Europe, must
jc regarded as little less than defpetat-e.
Ex-ten five manufa&uies can only be the
offspring of a redundant, at lead of a
Full population. Till the latter /hall
:hara£terifc the flfuation of this ctfUtl
ry, ' tis vain to hope for the former."
" If, contrary to the natural cOurse of
;hings, an uniealonable and premature
}>rjng can be given to certain fabrics.
iy heavy aiaties, prohibitions, bounties,
jr by other forced expedient?; this will
only be to facrifice the iritereflsof the
rommunity to those of particular dal
es. Besides the mifdire&ion cf labor,
i virtual monopoly will be given to the
merlons employed on luch- fabrics ; and
tn enhancement of price, the inevitable
ronfequence of every monopoly,muft be
lefrayed at the expence of the other
3arts of the society. It is. far preferable,
hat those persons should be enj; :n
:he cultivation of the earth, and that we
Ihould procure, in exchange for its pro
iu£tians,the commodities, with which
Foreigners are able to supply us in great
ii perfection, and upon better teims.
This mode of reasoning is founded
upon facts and principles, which have
certainly relpc&able pretsnfioiis. If i'
had governed the conduct of nations,
more generally than it has done, there ..
room to suppose, that ■: might have car
ried them fa ft or to pvialpsiity anci
great ness, than they have attained r.ythe
purf'iit of maxims too widely oppoute.
Tiowfcver, act ml;
of numerous exceptions, and there ' -
few, if any, of the political "kind, which
do not blend a considerable portion oi
error with the truths they inculcate*
In order to an accurate judgment
how far that which has been jtrfl ftatec
OJiffhttobe deemed liable to a iiinilai
imputation, it is necessary to .-dvert
carefully to the coniidcrations which
ple:id in favour of manufactures, and
which appear to recommendt'ne tpecial
,md positive encouragement of, them in
ccrtain cases, and under certain reafcn
able limitations.
It ought readily to be conceded, that
the cultivation of the earth, as the pri
mary andmoft certain source of nat ion
al supply : as the immediate and chict
source of fubfiftcpce to man: as the prin
cipal source of those materials which
constitute the nutriment of other kinds
3 flabor; as including a (late molt fa
vourable to the freedom and independ
ence of the human mind ; one, perhaps.
!noft conducive to the multiplication oi
:he human species ; has intrinficdly c.
(trong claim to pre-eminence over every other
kind oj indujfry.
But, that it has a title to any thing
Like an exclusive predilection, in anv
-ountry, oughtto be admitted with great
:aution. That it is even more produc
tive than every other branch-os induitry.
requires more evidence than has yet
,een given in support of the position.
That its real interests. precious and im
portant as, without the help of exagger
ation, they truly are, will be advanced,
rather than injured by the due encoui
urement of manufa&ures, may, it is be
lieved, be f'atisfaftorily demonstrated.
And it is also believed, that the expedi
ency of such encouragement, in a gen
ial view, maybe shewn to be recom
mended by the mofl cogent and periua
[ive motives of national policy.
It has been main tained ' ,hal a S'' cul "
ure is, not only, the most productive,
nut the onlyproduftive species o. indui
rv. The reality of this luggcftion, m
cither refpeft, has, however, not been
verified by any accurate detail of fa.ts
i«wi the general argu
ments. which arc c idaccd to prcivc it
r.re rather subtil »«m paradoxical, than
fol»4 or convincing.
which maintain its cjicßifrcc
produ&ive'nefs-are to this -effsft; : —
Labor, tipon the cultivation
n>f land,. produces enough, not only t<.
repiacfi all thenecelTary expences incur
red in the bufirtels. and to. maintain the
periods who are Otnployed in it, but t(
(Toi.i, together with .the ordinary profit
art,the {lock Of capital of the fanner, a
uett surplus, or rtnl f-®r the landlord
!>v proprietor of the foil.- Hut the laboi
z>f artificers does nothing more than re
place the flock which employs them
(or which furnifhes fnaterials, tools and
wageS)' and yield the ordinary profit upon
hat/lock. It yields ftath in g ecjui valcn t
to the rent of Una. Neither-does it add
U? the totalvalue of the, whole
irtiiuai produce of the land and labor of
The country. The additional
sn to those pails of the produce of land,
which are wrought into manufactures,
:'s counterbalanced by the value of thole
Mher parts of that produce, which aic
consumed by the manufacturers. It c&n
therefore only be by laving or parfiineny,
not'by the pofitivcpYoditflivenefs of their
Lahoj, that the classes of artificers can
in airy. degree augment the revenue ex
the foclety.'
jo this it has been answered, > .
i. " That inasmuch as it is acknow
ledged, that manufacturing labor repro -
duces a value equal to that which is
expended or consumed in Carrying it
on. and continues in existence She ori
ginal/lock or capital employed. it ought
an that account alone, to escape being
considered as wholly unproHu&ive :
That though it fhpuld be admitted, its
Pledged, that tiie consumption of the
ps educe of the try the elafL*s r»f af
i ificers or manufacturers, 13 exaflly c
cjual to the value added by their labor to
thg materials upon which it is exerted ;
vet it would not thence follow, that it
added nothing to the revenue of the so
ciety, or to the aggregate value of the
annual produce of its land and lab*6i.
If the consumption for any given period
amounted to a given _/<' m ; and the encreaf
c.i value of the produce manufactured,
in the /jme period, to a like fum> the total
amount of the consumption and produc
tion during that period, would be equal
to-t.he iiwof-trn*, and ponfcquently double
the value of the agricultural produce
on fumed . And though the increment
if value produced by the clafles of ar
tificers should at nb time exceed the
value of the produce of the land consu
med by them, yet there would be at e
very moment, in consequence of their
labor, a greater value of goods in the
market than would exi/l independent
of iti"
2. " That the position, that artificers
can augment the revenue of a society,
only by parsimony, is true in no othei
sense, than in one which is equally ap
plicable to husbandmen or cultivators.
It may be alike affirmed of all these
classes, that the fund acquired by their
labor anddeftined for their support, is
not, in an ordinary way, more ihan e
qual to it. And hence it will follow,
that augmentations of the wealth 01
capital of the community (except in the
instances of some extraordinary dexten
ty or fhill) can only proceed, with re
ined to any of them, from, the savings
of the more thrifty and parsimonious."
3. " That the annual produce of the
land and labor of a country can only be
ertcreafed, in two ways—by some im
provement in the productive powers of
the uleful labor, which actually
within it, or by some encreafe in the
quantity of such labor : That with re
gard to' the fir ft, the labor of artificer?
being capable of greater subdivision
and hmplicity of operation, than that oi
cultivators, it is fufeeptible, in a propor
tionably greater degree, of improvemen!
Numb. 17.
'in its productive powers, whether to be'
derived from an accession of skill, of
from the application of ingenious ma-,
chiiiery : in which particular, therefore
the jabor employed ia the culture of
land can pretend to no advantage over
that engaged in manufactures r That
with regard'td att-augmerrtation of the
quantity of- ufeful labor this, excluding
adventitious eifcumftarices, mufl de
pend eflfentiaHy upon an exicfeaie of ca
pital, which' again mutt depend upon
the savingS made out of the revenues of
those, who furnifh or manage that,
which is at any time employed, whether
in agriculture, or iti fnanufaffcureS"., Or iti
any other way."
But while tlie (tela five prodaftivc/iefs
of agricultural labor has beefr thus deni
ed and refuted, the fuperitfrit'i- of its
produftivenefs has been conceded with
out helitatiori. As this concefliop.
involtes a pflint 6f considerable magni
tude, in relation to maxims of public
I adminirtration, ?he grounds on which it
| lefts ate worthy of a diftin£fc and partic
llar examination.
One of the arguments made use of, in
"upport of the idea maybe pronounced
Krtb quaint and fuperficial : It amounts
o this That irt the productions of the
oil, nature co-operates with man i and
hat the efieftoftheir joint labormuftbe
-reater than thatof the labor o mart altfne.
Tliis, however, isfaif from being a ne
;effary inference. It is very co.ncciv.a
->le, that the labor of man alone laid out
lpon a work, feqairing great (kill and
trt to bring it to perfection, may be more
productive, in value, than the labor of
lature and man Combined-, when direc
cd towards more simple operations and
jbjerts : And when it is recollected to
what an extent the agency of nature, in
be application-os the mechanical pow
■rs, is made auxiliarv to the prosecution
jf manufactures, fn't ♦«§'§« ft ion
ias been noticed, loseS even the appear
ince of plausibility,.
It might alio be observed. with a• con-'
rary view, that th« labor employed in
igricutture fs in a great nieafure period
cal and occasional, depending, on fea
ons, liable to vai'ioVis and long intermif
ions ; while that occupied in many ma
)Ufa&ures i* constant and regular,- ex
ending through the year, embracing,
n some nighf as we'll as day.
tt is also pi'ubablc, that there are among
he cultivators of hnd, more examples
if remifinefsj-than amoiig artificers. he
armcr, from fh'e peculiar fertility of
us land, or fomc other favorable cir
;umftan£e, may frequently obtain a live
ihood, even with a considerable degree
>f eareleffnefs in the made of cultivati
on : but the artisan Can with difficulty
-ffeft the fame .object, without exerting
lim'fclf pretty equally with all those,
vho arc engaged in the fame pursuit.
<\nd if it may likewise be assumed as a
'act, that manufactures open a wid'er
leld to exertions of ingenuity than agfi
-ultufe, if would not be a drained con
ectute, that the labor employed in the
ormer being at once more eonjtant, more
iniform and more ingenious, than that
.vhich is employed in the latter, will be
oundat tfie fame time more productive.
But it is not meant to lay ftreft on ob
"ervations of this nature; they ought on
y to serve as a counterbalance to thoic
jf a frmilar complexion. Circumftanees
o vague and general, as well as so ab-
Iract, can afford little interaction in a
natter of this kind.
Another, and that which seems to be
he principal afgument offered for the
uperior productiveness of agricultural
abor, turns jspon the allegation, that ra
ior employed on manufactures yields
lothing equivalent to the rent of land ,
>r to that he'tt surplus, as it is called,
,\'hich accrues to the proprietor of the
oil. But this diftinftion, important as
t has been deemed, appears rather ver
\al than fiihftantifll.
f Set last page, JPHILADELPHIA.
C O NGR ESS.
HOUSE QF REPRESENTATIVES.
Thursday, December 22.
THE bill was read the second time
for carrying into effect a contrast be
tween the United States and Pennsylva
nia, for purchasing lands on Lake Erie,
and committed to a committee of the
whole House tomorrow.
Petitions were read from Jofiah Wit
ter and Lawrence Furlong, the firft
praying recompence for a wound receiv
ed &c. and the second, fettlemcnt of a
claim against the United States for pi
lotage, during the war.—Referred to
the Secretary at War, and Secretary of
the Treasury.
A memorial was presented from the
several religious societies of Quakers in
Pennsylvania, New-Jersey, Delaware,
Maryland and Virginia, praying that
meafurcs of peace and friendfhip may
be puifued with the Indian tribes ;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
A petition was read from sundry
merchants and others, of the town of
Newport in Rhode-Island, praying the
cftablilhment of a weekly post from
New-Port to Boston, through Bristol,
Warren, and Taunton.—Referred to the
committee for establishing the Poll-office
and Post roads.
Mr. Gerry made a report from the
committee for obtaining annual and re
gular statements of the receipts and ex
penditures oI all public monies, and for
duly examining such statements—Read,
and ordered to lie on the table.
The House then resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole on the bill sent
from the Senate, relative to the election
of a President and Vice-President of the
United States, and declaring the officer
who {hall ast as President, in cafe of va
cancies in the offices both of President
and Vice-Prefident.
After some time spent in debating on
the Bill, the committee rose, and are to
take the fame into consideration again
to-morrow.
Friday, December 23.
A melTage was received from the Pre
sident of the United States by Mr, Se
cretary Lear, notifying his having ap
proved and signed an ast making appro
priations for thefupport of government,
for 1792.
A petition was then read from a num
ber of merchants in Charleston. S. C.
in made with Gr«at-Britain previous to
the Revolution, praying to be relieved
from the payment of certain demands
of their English creditors, on account of
their having been paid in paper curren
cy, during the late war, which depreci
ated in their hands.
The House th«n resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole on the bill for
carrying into effect thecontraft between
the United States and Pennsylvania, re
lative to the purchase of lands adjacent
to Lake Erie—After some time spent
therein, the bill was reported without an
amendment, and ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading.
The House then resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole on the Poll-
Office Bill—the eighth feftion of which
was so amended as to fix the postage
rates as follows :—For a single letter be
tween places not more than 30 miles dis
tant from each other fix cents—from 30
to 60 miles, 8 cents: from 60 to 100
miles, 10 cents; fiom 100 to 150 miles,
12 | cents; from 150 to 200 miles, 15
cents ; from 200 to 250 miles, 17 cents;
from 250 to 350 miles, 20 cents, and 25
cents for any greater distance—This
was agreed to : In regard to the 17th
feftion, it was moved to strike out that
part of it which makes robbery of the
mail, felony; and to infertinfteadthere
of, that the person conviftedof such rob
bery shall pay a sum not exceeding
dollars, and fuffer imprisonment
either during life or for a term of years,
jit the discretion of the court.
The committee then rose and report
ed progress.—Adjourned.
M. GARDETTE, Dtntijl,
Respectfully informs the public, ch»t
he his removed from No. 88 to No. 117,
t'heinut, near Fourth .ftrest, nearly eppofite the
J'ankof th« JJ>
The following Communication Was made to
the Legijlature of this Jiatt on Saturday
lajl.
To the Seriate and House of Repre
sentatives of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
Gentlemen,
IT gives me great fatisfaftion to com
municate to you, a copy of a letter from
the Prehdent of the United States; from
which you will observe, that exertions
are making under the authority of the
Federal Government, to protest effe&u
ally the exposed part of the Frontiers.
THO. MIFFLIN.
Philadelphia, Dec. 24. 1791.
United States, Dec. 23. 1791.
SIR,
I have received your Exccllency'si
letter of yesterday, inclosing a copy of;
a representation to you from the inhabi
tants of Pittsburgh, relatively to their
apprehensions, in consequence of the
late defeat of the troops under Major
General St. Clair.
I can with propriety assure your Ex
cellency, that it is my earned desire,
that all the exposed parts of the Fron
tiers should be as effectually prote&ed,
at the general expence, as the cafe may
require,
I (hall direst the Secretary of War to
confcr with your Excellency upon this
fubjeft, and to inform you of such mea
sures as have been directed, and are in a
train of execution.
I am, with due consideration
Your Excellency's
most obedient fcrvant,
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
To his Excellency the Governor
of Pennsylvania.
PHILADELPHIA,
December 26.
On Wednesday last Richard Henry Lee, Esq.
member of the senate of the United States,
appeared and took his feat in that house.
A committee of their body have been ap
pointed by the legislature of this slate for exa
mining the ground above the city, with a view
to report the most proper place, through -which
the rivers Delaware and Schuylkill may be
united by means of a canal. The committee
were of opinion that such a canal is practicable,
and mentioned a gut a little above Vine-Street,
as the most proper situation near the Delaware,
and a smaller gut on Schuylkill which they thiir:
can be united, without a probability of thfe ca
nal being obllructed by ouarriei of stone.— Upon
the most accurate observation no part of thfc
ground between the Schuylkill and Delaware,
between the two points which appear most eli
gible for the mouths of the canal is more than 1
twenty-seven feet above high-water-mark.
Two messages were delivered from the Govern
or of this state, ori Thursday laft,to the Senate and|
House of state Representatives; one containing a;
representation from the inhabitants of the town°oi'!
Pittiburgh exprefling their apprehensions of an :
invasion by the hostile Indians, the probable increafc I
of the enemy's numbers, and the defencelefs state j
of the Frontiers in that quarter. At present the
inhabitants of Pittsburgh represent themselves to
be without a garrison, arms, or ammunition to de
fend the place, and confcquently incapable of re
filling the Indians, in cafe of an attack. They
therefore request such afliftance as can be imme -
diately afforded them, and that their situation may
be made known to the Federal and State Legiila
ture.
The other message refpeited the reconfiderati -
on and improvement of the law relating to the
confinement and support of debtors in the Jail of
this city. The defe& complained of, arises front
the striking difference observable between the
provision made for Criminal's and confined
In the apartments of the former the operation of
the law, refpe&ing criminals, enables them to live
comfortably and decently. In those of the latter,
there is little else but extreme poverty and wretch
edness—there not being an adequate maintenance
for debtors, provided by law, and the very cir -
omittance of a man's confinement being a Sufficient
presumption that he is no longer in a condition to
maintain himfelf.
A vessel has arrived at Annapolis from Hif
paniola, by which certain intelligence is receiv
ed that the greatest part of the town of Port-au-
Prince was destroyed by fire on the 22d of last
month. —The disagreements of the whites and
mulattoes had revived, and an action ensued, in
which the whites were defeated, and the mulat
toes set fire to the town, seven-eighths of which
are consumed The negroes have become more
mfolent and daring than ever upon the profpett
of making a common cause with the mulattoes,
who are at lead three to one to the whites. —The
out-port of Leguc has been taken from the ne
groes, and therein one of the principal of the
negro chiefs —A velfel had arrived at Cape-
Francois in 26 days from France, bringing an
account of the national aflembly revoking the
decree which put the mulattoes and the whites
upon a footing —The allembly of the island was
debating whether to carry their decree into exe
cution or net—the mere apprefrenfion of their
compliance (herewith' had induced' the mutat
ions, who had received information of the mat
ter, to take up arms, and exert themselves to
prevent its being carried A body
of mulattoes hail enjered a village in the qubr
ter of Fort Dauphin, difaimed the inhabitants,
• and carried otf their arms and ammunition—A
(hip with provilions had arrived from New-
York—but 110 {hips nor troops yet from France,
though hourly looked for.
Between the 27th of Oflober, 1790, and the
24th of October, 1791, the number of paflcn
gers and servants that have arrived at the port of
Philadelphia only, with a view to become i'ettlers
in this country, amounts to two thouland seven
hui.dred and foity-four persons.
Extraß of a letter from Fert-Waflnngton, Nov. 17.
" I arrived here with the army on the Bth
inft. after a severe march of 97 miles from this
place, and about 15 from the Miami village,
where the Indians attacked us about 6 o'clock
on the morning of the 4th. Their fire com
menced on the militia, who were encamped
about 6co yards in front of the main army; and
in less than ten minutes, they, with our picquet
guards, were drove into our camp. The enemy
had polled themlelves all round us during the
night, for they attacked our front and rear near
ly at the fame time, our officers and men falling
fall; the left wing was ordered to charge, which
they did with a great deal of success. This was
followed by the left of the right wing with equal
success ; but the enemy still rallied and attack
ed us with as much violence as ever. The army,
in many places, charged a second time, with
equal success ; the enemy flill attacked us again,
and got possession of a part of our camp for about
five minutes, in which time they fcaiped many
of those who were killed. By this tima our
men became very disorderly, and with difficulty
drove the enemy out of the camp. The officers
could not bring them to any kind of order. In
this action, Gen. St Clair iilued his orders with
a great deal of composure : no man ever beha
ved with more deliberate bravery. He was con
tinually in that part of the lines where there was
mod to be done —encouraging the officers and
men; and, with his pistol cock'd, forced many
soldiers to their duty, who had utterly refufed
any kind of obedience to their officers. About
9 o'clock we were forced to leave the camp,
with all the baggage of the army, a quantity of
ammunition, and eight pieces of artillery, to the
mercy of the enemy."
Another letter of the fame date, fays, " You
have heard of the melancholy defeat of our ar
my. This is dreadful news to the frontiers of
Kentucky. Gen. Scott is now on his way to
Miami, with a thousand men. I think wefhall
do something ! "
" What think you of a tax on newspapers >—
[fays a letter from a Printer in a neighbouring
ftaie]—l with for some regulations, but I should
be unwilling to be made accountable for an
immediate taj;, irinik I am obliged tc give my
■customers credit from seven to twenty years. —
Is it meant to make the Post-masters relponhble
collectors ;—I am not in the secret, but I wiffi
my bread and chcefe may not be materially af
fected by an abridgement of my business."
A letter appears in the late French papers, ad
drelfed " From the French nobility, alfembled
at BrufTels and Coolence, to the Empress of
Russia." —In this addref? every argument is made
use of that could be thought likely to flatter the
vanity of the Empress, and induce her to assist
them in the mad projett ofattemptinga counter
revolution in France. They acknowledge the
empress's goodness in permitting them to reside
in her froien empire (which blessed privilege
it feerr.s, has been granted them) but at The
fame time wifli her majesty to know, that an
exertion of hei power to restore them to the ge
nial climate of France would be much more ac
ceptable—and that they can never think of re
turning to that country upon any other terms
than a renovation of the old government.
There has been lately republifhed in New-
York ;and for sale by Mr. Dobfon in this city)
a Pamphlet of 93 pages ofctavo, written by the
Rt. Hon. Edmund Burke, and intituled "An
appeal from the new to the old Whigs, in con
lequence of some late difcuflions in Parliament
relative to the Refusions on the French Revo
lution." -Thrs pamphlet is, perhaps, one of the
mod cool and riifpaflionate of all ihe Rieht Ho
norable writer's political productions. It may
be considered as an indirect answer to Mr.
Paine s Rights of Man, and though it contains a
lumcient quantity of that vapid fluff and mere
puss-paste so much in use with Mr. Buik-, it
does nevertheiefs also contain arguments urged
with much plausibility in favor of the opmmn
{happily exploded in America and France) that
the great family of mankind come into the world
without any natural rights, a very few individu
als in every nation and tribe excepted who
like Swift's. Strutbrugs, are gifted Jure divm
with certain extra privileges. The pamphlet is
well worth reading, were it only from motives
ot curiouty, to trace this writer through his in
genious sophistry; who has the aflurance to con
clude his pamphlet with asserting, that the pre
tended rights of man, which now make i'uch a
llir in Europe are not the Rights of the People.
Last Wednesday evening lieutenant Denny,
to major-general St. Clair, arrived
with dispatches for the Secretary for the depart-
Novenibel' Fo «-Wafhingion, the 17th
Thegarrifonat Fort-Jefferfon was intended
to be continued, aud was not conceived to be in
any danger : It was well supplied with provi
sions, provided with artillery, and commanded
by Capt. Shailcr of the 3d regiment. Mofi of
the wounded had arrived at Fort-Wafhingtoji
fropi Fort Jefferfon.
l J iamingo, tj>e Chickafaw chief, had return
ed with his warriors, and captain Spaiks, of
Clark's battalion, bringing with them five scalps.
The Kentucky militia, under Gen. Scott and
Wilkinlon, all mounted and furnith ed with 20
days provision, would probably airive at Fort-
Walhington about the middle of November.
It was expected that the difperjied situation of
the Indians would afford a good opportunity for
the militia to make ail important stroke yet this
'winter.
The brave majoi Clark (who covered the re.
treat with some soldiers) supposed to be killed,
had arrived fafe at Fort-Wafliington.
The levies were generally discharged, except
ing those who had er.lifted into the regular fer
vicc.
In a late Charlefion paper (received by way of
New-York) appear under the Augusta head, three
papers relative to Creek Indian boundaries, &c.
viz. A Report of Mr. Middleton, who was sent
with dispatches by Mr. LUicottto Gen. M'Gil
livray at the Creek towns; a talk received by
major Cail at the Rock-Landing; and a 'ctttr ad
drelied to the commiflioners of the United Statei
at the Rock-Landing, for fettling the boundary
between the Indian territory and the United States.
This letter is dated Ufackcts, O&ober 26, lfgi,
and signed, " Gen. Win. A. Bowles, aintiur of
Indian affairs for the Creek nation."
The report contains a brief account of feme
Indian conferences among themselves, rdaiive
to Mr. Ellicott's dispatches; and.cor.fukations,
whether they fiiould adhere to ihe ticatv with
the United States, signed in New York in Au. uft
1790, or accept of the talks offered them bv
Bowles. These consultations, however, were
not decisive, although they terminated in the ex
treme disgust of General M'Gillivray, who fig.
nified his intention of leaving the nation, on ac
count of their listening to Bowles.
The talk received by major Call from the In
dian chiefs and king of the Cuffatahs, breathes
a spirit of peace and a continuance of the present
good underllanding with the people of the United
| States.—The leading idea of Bowles's letter is,
his wish that the boundary-line may be fairly fet
tled, which however he alferts not to be the in-'
tention of the white people, but to make en
croachment upon encroachment on the Indian
territory till they have annihilated the tribes; 10
prevent which, and to fee justice done to them,
he fays he has fix thousand forces on the islands,
and others at command; that the convention wi th
General M'Gillivray was merely a bargain with
an unconnected individual, who was betraying
the Indians and facrificing their lands," &c. &c.
PITTSBURGH, Dec. ,7.
Ihe army of the United States having advan
ced about 99 miles from Fort Wafliington, and a
bout 30 miles from their last Fort. Jefferfon, the
two last days by considerable rapid marches,on the
evening of the 3d of Nov. they came up with and
encamped on the firft or south-west branch of the
Miami of the lakes. The Kentucky militia in
front about 303 yards over the creek on the firft
rising ground, leaving a rich sugar tree bottom
between them and the main army, who were on
pretty high ground on the other fide of the creek,
with a small run and some low marshy ground on
their left.. The Indians for icvcral days before
had been fecn hovering round, apparently watch
ing the motions of our army ; but this night sundry
ffiot were exchanged between them, and our sen
tries, and additional parties sent out to prevent
them from Healing our horses and to make disco
veries ; however nothing very material happened
until after our reveille had beat next morning, be -
tween the dawn and l\inrife,when the Kentucky mi
litia, amounting to about 300, were attacked by a
fliarp fire from the Indians who at the fame time
set up a .moil tremendous yell. The militia broke,
and were almost inflantly through our lines, when
a part oi them were met again by the Indians on
the other fide, who were now advancing on our
encampment from all quarters, and drove back;
our men having been already paraded, were ready
to receive them, and a general engagment imme
diately commenced, which laftcd with great ob
stinacy on both fides about 3 hours—The Indi
ans, in the beginning of the action, paid particular
attention to our officers and artillery men, and be
fore it was half over a great part of them were
killed and wounded. The Indians were very nu
merous, which we found from their incessant hea
vy fire more than from what we could otherwise
discover of them, for they generally fought under
cover, and would frequently advance very dose
under the l'moke of our cannon, and as soon as it
began to fclear away, their fire became very fatal.
On their advances in this manner some of our
battalhons generally charged them where the
ground would permit ; but in these charges they
found fhemfelves flanked and the Indians who had
retreated in front from our bayonets, returned
with redoubled fury when they began to break,
and would frequently follow them into our lines
and tents. At length our men got into universal
confufion, and almost every other man, who were
yet able to keep together, was bleeding with
wounds. The Indians in the mean time were
contracting their circle, and keeping up a constant
fire both with rifles and smooth bored muikets.
A number of arrows were also thrown into our
encampment in the course of the 7 a&ion, but
they did 110 great execution. Finding our men
cxhaufted, and the possibility of cjmquering preclu
ded a retreat back on our own/road (which had
been continued on the Indian -f>ath from about five
miles to the southward of Fort Jefferfon) was
attempted, but did not fueled. We then tried the
south east earner of our tpcampment, opposite toYvhieJithe Indians appeared to be less formidable
—on this dire&ion we were fortunate enough to
break thro'aiid every one made the bed of their
way for fort JeCerl'on.
Several attempts were made to form a rear
guard, but they all proved ineffoftual, for as the
Indians gave us chale and fe.t up their horrid yells,
the greateil part of our men threw down their
arms, luiapfa-cks &c and pulhed a head with all their
might. The Indians followed 4or 5 miles firing
on and tomahawking all that came within their
leach.
TravJlaticnS from French pafitrs, to OH. 12, receiv
ed un TurJday lajl by the Betfry, from Havre de
Grace.
Paris, OH. B.—Many people in this country
complain that the mode of election adopted in
the constitution is attended with too much delay,
and does by no means fufficiently provide againll.
intrigue and corruption. Doubtless a less im
perfect method might be fallen upon ; altho' it
must beconfeffed that con uption always prevails
more or lcls in every elective atfeinbly, from that
of Poland which elects a king, to the fiitipledif
iritl which only eh els a jufticeof the peace. If
there is an elective allembly in the world,- with
out fraud and venality, it is thatof Venice. Their
mode ot election is of a .nature too complex to be
adopted in France, but is neveithelefs worth
mentioning. When a doge is to be rfiofen, all
the noblemen who ate convened in the supreme
council, draw each a little ball out of a box of
ball'., among which aTe mingled thirty gilt ones.
Those who draw the gilded balls then draw lots a
second time, theirnurnberbeing'reduced kj nine j
and these nine electors name forty, who by ano
ther balloting are leduced to twelve. These
a,i,iii> name twentv-five eleftors,whom the chancei
of the lots teduces afterwards to nine. The
operation is not yet ended. These nine once
more choose forty-Five, who are by lot again re
duced to eleven, who in the last placs appoint;
the forty-one electors by whom the doge is im~:
mediately chosen. This is something like the
drawing of a lottery, and is managed with great
rapidity. An cleftion there is never known to
continue more than three or four hours, although:
there are commonly eight or nine hundred
present. At firft fight, one would suppose that
mere chance decided these elections, but the real
effect of this complicated balloting is to place
those in office who have a majority of votes. It
is by such a mode of t lection, (which is praftifed
also at Genoa) that the Venetians prevent the in
trigues of their magillrates to gain an afcendancv
over each other, flifle a spirit of party and fac
tion, and destroy the ambitious proje&j of an
oligarchy.
Clcves, 08. 1. —The French emigrants at Cob
lence, Treves, Brullels, and mod other places in
the empire, and its dependencies, were thunder
struck at the king of France's acceptation of the
constitution. All the consolation or advice we
can afford to them in this place, is, to return tc
their country as expeditioufly as poflible and;
make their peace with the powers that be. They!
do not give the least credit to the accounts ot a
general amnesty, and still reckon upon the empe
ror's assistance in the spring.—Miserable men!
how greatly are they rniftaken—they seem not to
know that the paper called The Courier of the
Lower Rhine is support.-d by the Imperial chain-i
ber of Finance 011 purpose to persuade the nu-;
merous bodies of emigrants in those parts lo re-j
turn to Fiance, and restore themselves to their]
country at any price—That very paper has yel-l
terday asserted from the most unquestionable au
thority, that " neither the emperor noi the cm-;
pire, nor any other foreign power will either|
march their tioops now, ot at any future time,!
vith z view to effe£l a counter revolution ; anu!
that the king of France has atled very wilely 1111
making his peace with a people, of whom it r>i
in his power again to bccome the ido!,mori tha j
ever. If the exiles and emigrants any!
longer depend upon assistance from this ijuaitei,
we have authority (which they have no idea of;
to fay, that bitter repentance will be the conte
quence of their idle hopes."
Brujfels, OS. 2. —The king of Prussia has gi
ven his ultimatum to the fugitive French princes;
*' That the present moment is the only time at
which he could possibly spare any troops to ast
against France. In the spring circumstances
would not allow him to fend a single soldier.'
This declaration was a dead-ftioke to the poor
exiled princes, and the prince of Conde even
shed tears upon the occasion. The circumstances
referred to by the king of Pitiflia, most probably
had relation to the towns of Dantzic and 1 horn,
of which he is determined to poflefs himlelf, the
firft favorable opportunity by forcible means
Letters, however, fiom Russia, Sweden, and Po
land fay, that those powers are determined toop
pofe him with a combination of their foices.
Paris, OH. 9. When the king understood that
the usual ceremonial of salutation between the
national aU'embly and himfelf was to be changed
at his meeting them, he leemed very much af
fcfted.—" I should have thought (said he) tbat
although they have deprived me of all honor, as
an individual, ihey would have manifefted some
legard for the dignity of their firft magistrate,
tTie hereditary reprefentativc of the nation. —
This effufion spread like w.ldfiie; and to such
a height were the paffionsof the populace railed,
that when the grcatcbair offtate was brought into
the alTcmbly's hall, they seemed to worftnp the
very chair. Sirch an excess of enthusiastic ap
plause was reprobated by one of the orators—-but
bis voice was drowned in the uk|
people.— This gave great umbrage to -»*• Gou-j
u
pilleau, one of the members of the second legil
lature, who cued out that the majefiy of the people
wasjacrificed to the majejly of the king.—" If you
daie to express yourfelf again in that manner (said
one ot the officers of the national guard) I will
cut you to pieces—you are a traitor—and, take
notice, that we have bayonets !"—" Yes ! (re
plied the national guard)—we will cut him to
pieces should he infringe the constitution—we
are alio ready to cut that man to pieces, who of
fers him the molt trifling insult, while he is doing
his duty !" M. Goupilleau then exclaimed aloud,
I The temple of the country is become the Jlage of bul
lies and gladiators. The national guard wears a
menacing afpeH they tell us that the word majesty
belongs to the king only—that the people are nothvig
and the king every thing. — The officer was then
called to the bar, and desired to explain. Three
hours were spent in debating on this insult, and
examining witnefles. The officer at length inter
preted his expressions into another meaning j
and the alfembly palled on to the order of day.
Balbaflro, (Spain) Sept. 20. Doflor Joseph
Absilo continues to pradice inoculation for the
iirall pox, in this city, with the most incredible
lucce-fs. Since the month of June last, he has
inoculated in the different cities and towns of Ar
ragoo to the amount of four hundred and eighty
patients* Out of this large number not one has
■jted, and all are perfectly recovered; During the
lame space ot time one hundred and fifty peifons
were attacked by the small-pox in the natural way,
in the fame towns and places where dodf or Abaao
inoculated, out at which number seventeen died,
as has bien certified by the several magillrates of
ihufe places.
IVarfaiv, (Petard) Sept. 25. On the 15th
instant the new conll'tutional diet opened with all
that good. Oilier and dignity befitting the represent
atives of a free nation. The king made a speech
it this Iciliou j having brought into view the gen
eral unanimity ot the nation in accepting the con
stitution an the 3d of May 1791, he concluded a
very rational and truly patrioti9 speech, with the
following remarkaole words : " We have fvvorn
t maintain this conititution—v?e have engaged
under the moll sacred obligations, rather to die
than fuffer the least infringemerit thereof—and in
ipeaking this, 1 am convinced 1 am nothing more
than the echo of the public voice."—This was
returned with fuitab'le warmth o the part of the
people, and ti.en the diet proceeded to business.
Sept. 26.—The minister of France has caused
a foiemn mass to be performed in St. Mary's
church for the happy success of the French revo
lution. The people of this country beheld with
pleasure a religious (olemnity which put them in
mind of their own political regeneration. We
love and admire the French constitution, and, we
may even venture to fay, that it is to this constitu
tion, irJ its early efforts, that we owe our revolu
tion in Poland, which has broke the shackles of
flaveryj and brought us to be acquainted with the
charms and bleffirigs ofliberty.
Paris, 0(1. 10. Letters from Avignon meation
nothing but trouble and disorder in those parts. At
Sorgues, a town near Avignon, hoftiliticshave been
commenced between the parties that divide the
country thereabout?. An officer of the last men
tioned town has been kihed, several others wound
ed, and numberless outrages committed. The in
habitants chemfclves seem bent upon persecuting
each other ; robbery and plunder are pradtiled
with impunity, and no one lies down at night in
lafety.
OElober 11. —M. d'Andre, not long since a
dignified nobleman, and courilellor to the parlia
ment at Aix, lias become a partner in the spice
trade vrith M. M. GinetEi and Charlemagne.
1 heir ftofe, or-.e of the'beft in this capital, is in
Glal House ftreec. This citizen, at all times no
ted for hi* pauiotifm, after having a&cd a clftin-
part in the fifll national legislature, lias
now enrolled hirtif;lf in the national guard, an.,
has adlually twice mounted guard in quality of
grenadier.
M. de Muurtier, ambafl'ador from Frdnceatßer
in, is loon to fucceeo M. de Montmorin in the
department tor foieign al.aiis.
The King's S?eech to the NationAi. As
sembly, on Sept. 30.
Gentlemen,
THE constitution being completed, yoilr la
bors, for the prel'ent, are alio at an end. A pro
longation of the fe.Tion for some time would have
been delirable, that you yourfclves might have
fe::n, while in vour legifiative capacity, in what
manner your other labors would have operated
upon the public mind. But these additional ob
jects-are entered upon, and only wait to be per
fected by those enlightened legifiators, who well
know what the nation stands in need of, from
near three years painful experience. You have
doubtless thought it a matter of great importance
to make as lhortan interval as |>olfible, between
the finilhing the constitution, and the conclusion
of the labors of the constituting bodies, in order
to determine with more precision the difference
that cxifts between the duties of the conilituting
bodies and those of the legiflatures—ln refpeel
to myfelf, having accepted the constitution, which
you have made for the kingdom, 1 lhall employ
ail the power with which it ir.vefts me to ensure
that refpeft and obedience to the laws which is
due to them. I have notified to foreign powers
my acceptance of the constitution, and it /hall be
m> constant study and earnest endeavor to pursue
such mealures as (hall lecure the nation from any
foreign attempts, and to exert all my vigilance
and firmnefs in causing the constitutional laws to
be executed within the kingdom, and to prevent
their being changed or infringed.—As to your
,elves, gentlemen, you, through a long and ardu
oustalk, have manifefted a most indefatigable
zeal for the public welfare—but—you have still
one duty to accomplish When you shall be dif
pe-fed through this vast empire, let it be jour
constant care to inftruft your fellow citizens in
the true spirit of those laws which you have made
forthem —explain those which they may have
mifunderftoQi—purify all beard, & unite all opi
nions by the example which you will set before
them of love to their country, order, and fubmiliion
Co the laws.
Iu returning to yoor several homes, I trust,
gentlemen, that you will transfer my sentiments
to your fellow citizens. TeJl them all that the
king will still be their head, their protfe&or and
their faithful friend ; that it is his interest to be
esteemed by them, and that he cannot be happy
but with them and for them. The hope of con
tributing to their happiness will animate my
courage, and the conviction of having folly secured
it, will at all times be my fweetetk reward.
Signed, LOUIS.
Countersigned, D£lessa&t.
Oft. 12. Certain intelligence is c6mC to hand,
that the French relidents in Spain are preparing
to quit that miserable bigotted country, to avoid
falling a facrifice to tyranny and fanaticifm. Our
information fays, they have relufed to take the
requisite oath of allcgiance, as the taking of it
would blot out their national character. One i
brig.only, at Cadiz, has taken on board one hun- ;
dred and thirty peifons of j eighty
are embarked at Malaga j and more than izoo 1
have quitted Madrid and its vicinity. i
A plaee h«»s hitherto been set apart in the hall <
of the national aflembJv, appropriated to thole J
members of the afFeitibly whole times had expired. |
This privilege appears a c6ntradition to our own i
principles. It is ellential to a free confticution, :
that.' citizens who have been honored with the (
public confidence, when thtir times are expired,
ihould, in every fenle, return to the common ;
mass of the people. It would be absurd that such ;
a privilege fhou'Jd be established in the very hall i
where every other privilege has been abolilhed. j
It appears that this aftair has been managed by I
certain intriguing charaders in the late aflembly, <
who wished, after their political demile, to influ- |
erice the national deliberations j and have even ]
ventured to write billets from their feats anu circu- i
late them among the members. j
> The bilhop of Lucon, in a phrenzy of ec- \
clefiafticaJ rage and despair, has ifi'ued a pastoral i
letter, in which he recommends to the anti-con- i
liitutional clergy of France to continue inftrndfcing t
the faithful as heretofore, and to do all in their t
power to inspire them with a contempt for the f
conforming clergy. He endeavors to make the (
peasantry believe that to attend at a mass laid by c
a conforming priest is a mortal lin, and that chil- j
drert, the offspring of a marriage, the ceremonial t
of which was performed by one of them, are no c
better than bastards j and that burials, baptisms, f
and other ads of religions duty, are no other t
than blafphemics, when under the management of
these iniruders- {
The empreis of Russia has sent M. de Roman- v
zow (lon of the famous marshall of that name) a
with a present of two millions of roubles and c
notes to the exiled French Princes at Coblence.
The poor Princes iniift upon it that M. de Rot
manzow comei to them in quality of Ambaflador, f
—but they are utterly mistaken iwe have the belt t
authority to fay he is inverted with no public cha- a
i adfrer whatsoever, beyond that of a genteei mef- v
fenger. d
While philosophy and liberty are making such
rapid ft rides in France, Germany is every day
Dowr-g her neck more and snore under the yoke
>f feudal tyranny. At Dufi'eldorff an oidinance
:ias been lately published, which would have done
credit to the titled robbers of the fourteenth cen
uiy. Jt ordains that the citizens lhall not enjoy
:he diversion of dancing more than three times
<n year, and that only during the three days
of the carnival. As to the nobility, they are
not put under any reftridtions in this matter, so
that they can have as many bails, routs, dcc. as 1
they think proper* Thishummating dilcrimina
tion has foinccnled the populace, that it would
not he surprizing if they Ihouid give the nobility -
a dance mo:e than to their heart's content.
Philadelphia, Dcc. 26. n
In the debate on Wednelday lalt in the house of
1 representatives, on the 22nd and 23d fe£lions of *
;hre poli-ofSce bill, the following observations Were
mau« with regard to newspapers and their model "
■ of tranfportatiou : -—
It was observed, that although it be the duty of
rhe legislative body to make every neceflary provi- j
lion for the conveyance of information to the dif
ferent parts of the United States, it is as much -
the duty of each individual to pay his quota of the -
expense attending such conveyancc : the newspa
pers are conveyed, not to thole members of the ~
community who are unable to pay for the earri- i
age, but to those who can well afford to bear the
cxptnfe. The necefiity of diffe'minating informa-
tion, was admitted j and aifo that nothing more
ihould be expe&ed than what would barely defray _
the expencc of carriage 5 but in the cafe of news-
papers it waj said, even that expense was not de
frayed j the printers are able to pay for the papers
they receive \ and no exclusive privilege ought to '
be granted to a printer, any more than to another
perf<?n ; when a printer is about to enter into bu
fiaefs, he ought to make his calculations and take 1
into his accountevery circumllance of this nature, c
and make his arrangements accordingly : in the (
interior parts of the country, it is rather disadvan
tageous to the printer, that the newspapers are ex
empt from postage : a small tax on them would
operate as a bounty to the printer; it would be a
kind of monopoly in his favor, whilst he is taxed
onl) for a single paper, and those around him pay
for a number:—but setting this confederation
aside, why Ihould other persons be taxed for the
tranfmifiion of intelligence to the man who can
and oupht to pay for it ? the tax need not be very
great on each paper: but it was hoped, that
when the magnitude of the business was considered,
every printer would not be allowed to fend as ma
ny papers, as he may think proper.* It is impofii
ble to know how great the amount may be : in
those parts, where the mail is carried in waggons,
the evil perhaps may not be so severely felt ; but
wheie it is carried on horseback, it will be impof
fibleto transport weighty packages of newspapers: |
besides, even where waggons are established for the
purpose, it Sometimes becomes neceflaiy to hav .
the mail carried on horseback > and in luch
either the newspapers must be left feehiad, or pri
e vate letters containing In:poitant
n if an obligation be laid o» chc post-rider to carry
both, it will operate as a prohibition to carry either;
, for he cannor poflibly carry the whole : the con
s veyance of commercial intelligence is of much
c greater importance, than the circulation of rews
-1 papers} and yer, in the former cafe, a tax is laidj
2 not Only to pay for the carriage, but even with a
, view to revenue j whereas, in the latter, not even
■ the expense of conveyance was contemplated.
Jt \*>as further observed, that a late dispute, be-
I tween one of the piinters of this city and the post-
had thrown some light on this bu
linefs of the conveyance of newspapers : it appear
ed, that neat fix hundred papers per week were
received by the printers of this City ; and surely so
great a number cannot be neceiTary for the-con
veyancfc of intelligence :—if printers are to receive
papers untaxed from all parts of the union, they
may receive a still greater number * near four
millions of jjewfpapers are yearly printed in the
United States j and the number may probably in
crease in a ihort time, so that it is iiftpoflible to
tarsfee the extent of this bufinefsi
The flee carriage of newspapers (it was fa id,
would give a kind of monopoly to some states, to
live detriment of others t in the state of North-
Carolina, there are but two printers j—and if on
ly halt a cent is to be paid soT the carriage of a
paper from Philadelphia, the inhabitant? of that
ft ate will have their intelligence as cheap from
this place, as from the pre'fs of either of the Nerth-
Caroiiita printers, and earlier befictes.
Considering the prefefri number of newfpapeH
and the probability of its it will belaying
a heavy burthen on the Poft-Officc /or at least on
the horles that carry the mail) to allow all th£
printers to receive the papers free ; and to fubjedt
them to a tax of half a cent, without regard to
idiftan ce j will be encouraging tiie prefles in one
particular place, and cru{hni£ those in the other
parts of the union j for the conlcqueqce, it was
laid, will be, that the people will take the papers
from the greatest distance, beCause they will con
vey the intelligence qnicker. kis of cbnfitierable
importance to the mercantile interest, that there
should be papers in every state, to circulate ,dver
tifements : it is alfo'of great importance to the ci
tizens of e*ery state to have an opportunity of ex
prefling their sentiment? refpe£Hng the
of government! these defnaile objedts Cannot be
obtained without giving an adequate fOpport to all
newspapers alike : to give equal encouragement to
the printers in the different states,' some regard
ought to be paid to the distance to Which the pa
pers are conveyed, and the tax, whatevtr it may
be, proportioned accordingly*
Jt was not however wi/hed that any further tat
Should be laid upon newspapers, than barely what
would be lufficient to defray the expense of pcftagej
and to make the postmaster accountable
on receiving an allowance of at least; fifty per cent.
A ftatetfient was read, by which it appeared,
that one thousand one hundred and forty papers
per week pass through the general poft-office j and
tbat the printers of Philadelphia have lately, iii
a (ingle week, lodged newspapers there, to the
weight of two hundred afcd forty-two pounds avoir
dupois."
*RI C E or STOCK.
funded Debt.
Six per cents, per £. - - 22/6.
7'hree per cents, - - 13/3^.
Deferred fix per cents,, -
Unfunded Debt•
Final fettlemenu, - - 2cjo.
Inteieft due previous to 1788, J2/6-
Jndents, ...» 12/6.
Bank scripts, ... - J46 dollars;
Do. complete {hares payable and deliverable
2d january, 44 per cent advance.
Meteorological Observations,
December 1791.
D. H. Bar. Tktr.Wind. Wcdther.
Mtfidayi 19.729. 9 c.o ! n.w.Rain.
- 2 9* 95 49 do. Cloudy
Tucfday, 20.730. 1 27 n.w .Cloudy*
3°- -5 3 1 do. Fair.
Wednesday, 21.730. 5 2.3 s. e. Fair.
2
Tkurjday> 22.730. 2 27 n.w. Fair.
2 30. 5 27 do. dctto.
Friday, 23.730. 2 31 s.w. Fair.
2 30. 1 32 <io. ditto.
Saturday 3 24.730. 7 20 w. Fair,
2 30. 5 28 N.w .ditto.
Sunday, 25. 85 23 s.w. Fair.
2 ' 2 9* 739 do. ditto.
%* A few copies of the REPORT of
the Secretary of the Treafury y on thefubjeEl
of manufactures, may be had at the
Office, No. 239, High-St/eet.
JUST PUBLISHED,
and for sale by
THOMAS LANG,
No. 21, Church aHey ;
An Essay on
COMMERCE and LUXURY.
Re-printed from the London edition—Price 1/6.
The merit of this work will be acknow
ledged by every judicious reader. The re-publi
cation of it in this country, at this time, has been
advised by feverat enlightened patriots. These
• ifti to promote our national commerce, on the ba
ns of agriculture and industry, and free from the
base alloy of imposition and gaming. They set a
oroper value on the conveniencies and ornaments
f civilized life ; but detest that luxury which is
offspring of a frivolous taste, and the mother
)f profligacy, dishonesty, po rty, of number
-fs private and public vices d misfortunes.
- Nov. 2S. t.e.t.Ttls eaflly difcerfiible, tlut tthat, in the nrfl
instanCe is divided into two parts under the deno
minations of the ordinary prof t of the stock of the
farmer And rent to the landlord, is in the feconc
jnftance united under the general appellation ol
thz ordinary proft on the flock of th- underta
ker ; and tnat this formal or verba! diftributiof
cooititutes the whole difference in the two cafeSi
It seems to have been overlooked, that the lam
is itfelf a stock or capital, advanced or lent by it
owner to the occupier or tenant* and that the ren
he receives is only the ordinary profit of a cer'.aii
flock in land, not managed by the proprieto
himfelf, but by another to whom he lends or let
it, and who, on his part, advances a fecGndca
pital to stock and improve the land, upon whicl
he also receives the usual profit. The rent o
the landlord and the profit of the farmer are there
fore nothing more than the ordinary profits of tiv
capitals belonging to tivo different persons, am
united in the cultivation of a farm : As in th<
other cafe* the surplus which arises upon any ma
nufaCtory, after replacing the expences of carry
ing iton, answers to the ordinary profits of one o
■more capitals engaged in the prosecution of fuci
manufactory. It is said one or more capitals ;be
<?aufe in faCt, the fame thing which is contem
piated in the cafe of the farm, sometimes happen
in that of a manufactory. There is one, whi
furnifhes a part of the capital, or lends a part o
the money, by which it is carried on, and ano
ther, who carries it on, with the addition of hi
own capital. Out of the fu/pJus which remains
after defraying expences,. an interest is paid to th
money lender for the portion of tbe capital fur
niihed by him, which exactly agrees with the ren
paid to the landlord j and the residue of that fur
plus constitutes the profit of the undertaker o
manufacturer, and agrees with what is denomi
futed the ordinary profits on the stock of the far
mer. Both together make the ordinary profit
of two capitals employed in a manufactory j a
in the other cafe the rent of the landlord and thi
revenue of the farmer compose the ordinary pro
fits of two capitals, employed in tbe cultivatioi
of a farm.
The rent therefore accruing to the proprieto
of the land, far from being a criterion of exclufv
produCtiveness, as has been argued, is no criterior
even of superior produCtivenefs. The quefiioj
must (til) be, vrtiether the surplus, after defrayinj
expences, of a given capital, employed in the fur
chafe and improvement of a piece of land, isg/eat
erorlefs, than that of a like capital employed ir
the prosecution of a manufactory j or whether th<
ivbole value produced from a given capital and :
given quantity tf labor, employed in one way, b<
greater or less than the ivbole value produced fron
an equal capital and an equal quantity of labor em
ployed in the other way j or rather, perhaps, whe
ther the business of agriculture or that of manu
factures will yield the greatest produCt, according
to a compound ratio quantity of the capita
and the quantity of labor, which arc employed if
the one or in the other.
The' Solution, of either of theSc queftionsts no
easy ; it involves numerous and complicated de
depending on an accurate knowledge of th«
objeCts to be compared. It is not known that thi
compatifon has ever yet been made upon fufficien
data properly ascertained and anajifed. To bi
able to make it on the present occasion with satis
faCtory precision would demand more previous en
quiry and investigation, than there has been hi
therto either leisure or opportunity to accomplish
Some eflays» however, have beet) made toward!
acquiring the requisite information ; which havi
rather served to throw doubt upon, than to con
firm the hypathefis, under examination. But ii
ought to be acknowledged, that they have beet
too little diverfjfied, and are too inaperfeCt to au
thorise a definitive conclusion either way; leading
rather to probable conjeCture than to cerrtain de
duction. They render it probable, that there ar<
various branches of manufactures, in which a gi
ven capital will yield a gieater total produCt, and <
Considerably greater produCt, than an equal
capital inverted in the pcurchafe and improvement
of lands; and that there are also font* branches, ir
which both the gross and tHe nett produce will ex
ceed that of agricultural industry ; according to <
compound raiio of capital and labor.. But it is or
this last point, that there appears to be the greatefl
room for doubt. It ii far less difficult to infei
generally, that the w/rproduce of capital engagec
in manufacturing enterprises is greater than thai
of capital engaged in agriculture.
The foregoing suggestions are net defigntd to in
culcate an opinion that manufacturing ivduftry i:
wore productive than that of agriculture. Thej
are intended rather to shew that the reverse of thi i
proposition is not ascertained : that the genera
arguments which a/e brought to establish it are no
fatisfaCtory ; and consequently that a fuppofitior
of the superior produCtiveness of tillage ought t<
be no obstacle. td listening to any fubftaotial in
tlucements so the encouragement of manufactures
which may be otherwise perceived to exist, througl
an apprehension, that they may have a tendency
to divert labor from a more to a 'ess profitable em
ployment.
It is extremely probable, that on a full and. ac
curate developement of the mattfcf, on the grounc
of faCtand calculation, it would be discovered tha
there is no material difference .between the aggre
gate produCtiveness of the one, and of the othei
kind of Jnduftty $ and that the propriety of the en
couragements, which may in *iy cafe be propo
sed to be given to either, ought to be determinec
upon considerations irrelative to any comparison
of that nature.
11. But without contending for the fuperloi
produCtiveness of manufacturing industry, it may
conduce to a better judgment of the policy, which
ought to be pursued refpeCtmg its encouragement,
to contemplate the fubjcCt, tinder some additional
aspeCts, tending not only to Confirm the idea, that
this kind of industry has been improperly repre
sented as unproductive in itfelf j but to evince in
addition that the eftabiifhment and diffufion of
manufactures have the effeCt of rendering the to
tal mast of ufeful and productive labor, in a com
munity, greater than it would otherwise be. In
prosecuting this ; fcuffion, it may be necefiary
briefly to resume :nd review some o.f the topics
which have bees :eidy touebfd.
To affirm that the labor of (he h44htifa£turer is
mproJu&ive, because be consumes as much of tht
produce of land as he adds value to the raw mate
•ials which he is not better found
:d, than it would be to affirm, tha* the labor o
he farmer, which furnifhes materials to the ma
lufa&urer, is unprodu&ive, because he consumes ji
■qudi value bf wanufa&ured articles. Each fur
jifhes a certain portion of the produce of his labo
:o the other, and each destroys a correfponden
portion of the prod Oca of the labor of the other
In the mean time the maintainance of two citi
'.ens, instead of one, is going on j the flare ha
wo members instead of one j and they togethe
:onfume twice the value of what is produced fron
:he land.
If instead of a farmer and artificer, there were
armer only, he would be under the neceflity ofde
'oting a part of his labor to the fabrication o
loathing and other articles, which he would pro
ure of the artificer, in the cafe of there being fuel
i person ; and of course he would be able to de
-ate less labor to the cultivation of his farm, an;
vould draw from it a proportionably less producl
The whole quantity of produ&ion, in this state o
hings, in provisions, raw materials and manufac
uies, would certainly not exceed in value thi
imount of what would be produced in provision:
md raw materialsyonly, if there were an artifice:
is well as a farmer.
Again—lf there were both an artificer and ;
armer, the latter would be left at liberty to purfut
•xclufiveiy the cultivation of his farm. A greate:
[uantity of provisions and raw materials would o
ourfe be produced, equal, at lead, as has been al
eady observed, to the whole amount of the provi
ions, raw materials and manufactures, whicl
vould exist on a contrary supposition. The artiii
er, at the fame time, would be going on in th<
>rodu&ion of manufactured commodities ; to ar
imount fufticicnt not only to repay the farmer, ir
hose commodities, for the provisions and mate
ials which were procured from him, but to fur
»ifli the artificer himfelf with a supply of fimiia
ommodities for his own use. Thus then, ther*
vould be two quantities or values in exigence in
tead of one j and the r'evenue and confumptioi
vould be double in one cafe, what it would be ii
he other.
If in place of both these supposition?, there wen
upppfed to bfi two farmers and no artificer, eacl
if whom applied a pa-ft of his labor to the cultur<
»f land, ami another part to the fabrication of ma
iufa£ures ; in this cafe, thfc portion of the lal>oi
if both bestowed upon land would produce the fam<
juantity of provisions and raw materials only, a:
vould be produced by the iatirefum of the laboi
if one applied in the fame manner, and the por
ion of the labor of both bestowed upon manurac
ures, would produce the lame quantities ot ma
lufa&ures only, as would be produced by the in
ire sum of the labor of one applied in the lame
nanner. Hence the produce of the labor of :h(
wo farmers would not be greater than the product
>f the labor of the farmer and artificer 5 ant
lence it icfults, that the labor of the artificer is a
>ofitively produdtive as that of the farmer, and, a
>ofitive]y, augments the revenue, of the society.
The labor of the artificer replaces to the farm
:r that portion ofhis labor with which he provide
he materials of exchange with the artificer, anc
vhich he would otherwise have been compelled t!
ipply to manufa&ures $ and while the artifice
hus enables the farmer to enlarge his stock 0
igricultural industry, a portion of which he pur
hafes for his own use, he also Juppiies himfelf ivitl.
he manufactured articles of which be Jtandt v
;eed. He does still more—-Besides this eqoivalen
vhich he gives for the portion 0/ agricultural laboi
onfumed by him, and this supply of manufa&urei.
omirrodities for his own consumption, he furnith
is itill a surplus, which compensates for the use
f the capital advanced either by himfelf or forne
ther person, for carr>ing on the business. This
9 the ordinary profit of the stock employed in tht
nanufactorv, and is, in every fenfc, as tfft&ivt
n addition to the income of the society as the
ent of land.
The produce of the labor of the artificer confe
[uently, may be regarded as com po fed of ihret
tarts 5 one by which the provisions for his fubfift
ne'e and the materials for his work are purchafec
>f the farmer, one by which he fiipplies himfel
vith manufactured neceflaries, and a third whicl
:onftitutes the profit on the stock employed* Tht
wo last portions seem to have been overlooked ir
he system, which represents manufacturing in
luftry as barren and unprodu&ive.
In the course of the preceding illustrations, thi
>rodu£ts of equal quantities of the labor of the
: armer and artificer have been treated as i
:qual to each other. But this is not to be under-
Vood as intending toaflert any such precise equal
ty. It is merely a manner of expreflion adopted
"or the fake of firaplidty and perspicuity. Whe
ther the value of the produce of the labor of the
farmer be somewhat more or less-, than that of- tht
artificer, is not material to the main scope of the
argument which hitherto has only aimed at fnew
ing that the one, as well as the other, occasions 2
Dofitive augmentation of the total produce and re
venue of the society.
It is now proper to proceed a step further, anc
to enumerate the principal circumstances, frorr
i/vhich it may be inferred—That manufacturing
iftablifhments not only occasion a positive aug
mentation of the produce and revenue of the foci
sty, but that they contribute essentially to render
ing them greater than they could pofTibly be, with.
jut such eftabliftiments. These circumstances are
1. The division of labor.
2. An extertfion of the use of machinery.
3. Additional employment to clafles of tht
community not ordinarily engaged in tht
business.
4. The promoting of emigration from forelgr
countries.
5. The furuifhing greater scope for the diver
fity of talents and dispositions which dif
criminate men from each other#
6. The affording a more ample and variou:
field for enterprise.
7. The creating in some instances a new
and feeuring in all, a more certain anc
steady demand for the surplus produce 0:
the foil.
Each of these circumilafeccs has a confiJerable in-
Huencc upon the total rhals of (r.dufiridus effort in
» community : together, they add to it a degree of
;nergy and effeCt, which are not easily conceived.
Some comments upon each of them, in the ordei
in which they have been stated, may fsrve to ex
plain their importance.
I. As to the divijion of labor.
It has justly been oWrvcd, that there is fcarce
any thing of greater moment in the economy of a
nation, than the proper division of labor. The
separation of occupations causes each to be car
ried to a much greater perfection than it could
pofiibly acquire, if they were blended. Th:s
arises principally from three circumstances.
jft. The greater (kill and dexterity naturally
resulting from a constant and undivided applica
tion to a single ohjeCt. It is evident, that theft
properties must increase, in proportion to th< se
paration and Amplification of objeCts and the
steadiness of the attention devoted to each $ ano
must be less, in proportion to the complication oi
objeCt?, and the number among which the atten
tion is dift r aCted.
zdrf The economy of time, by avoiding the
lofsof it, incident to a frequent transition from
one operation to another of a different nature.
This depends On various circumstances j the tran
sition itfelf, the orderly disposition of the imple
ments, machines and materials employed in the
operation to be relinquished, the preparatory step:
to the comnrencement of a new one, the inter
ruption of the impulse, which the mind of the
workman acquires, from being engaged in a par
ticular operation 5 the distraCtions, hesitation?
and reluCtanCes, which attend the pafTage from
one kind of business to another.
3d. An extension of the use of machinery.—A
man occupied on a single objeCt will have it mori
in his power, and will be mora naturally led tc
exert his imagination in devising methods to fa
cilitate and abridge tabor, than if he were per
plexed by a variety of independent and difliroilai
operations. Besides this, the fabrication of ma
chines, in numerous instances, becoming itfelf ;
distinCt trade, the artist who follows it, ha 9 al
the advantages which have been enumerated, Kv
improvement in his particular art ; anu in botl
ways the invention and application of machinery
are extended.
And from these causes united, the mere fepa
rationOf the occupation of the cultivator, front
that of the artificer, has the effeCt of augment'
ing the produSli<vcpo wers of labor, and with them
the total mass of the produce or revenue of ;
zouatry. In this fiflgle view of the subjeCt, there
Tore, the utility of artificers or manufacturers
towards promoting an increase of productive in
iirftry, ii apparent.
11. As to an extension of the use of machinery
■2 pcir.t ivhich though -partly anticipated, require
to be placed in one or two additional lights.
The employment of machinery forms an iteu
of great importance in the general mass of na
tional incuftry. *Tis an artificial force trough
in aid of the natural force of man ; and, to al
the purposes of labor, is an increase of hands j ai
ucceflicn of itrength, unincumbered 100 by ike ex
pence of maintaining the laborer. May it not there
,ore be fairly inferred, that those occupations
which give grcateft scope to the use of this aux
iliary, contribute most to the general stock of in
riuftrious efFdrt, and, in consequence, to the ge
neral product of industry ?
It shall be taken for granted, and the truth o
:he position referred to observation, that manu
r aCturing pursuits are susceptible in a greater de
jree of the application of machinery, than thofi
>f agriculture. If so, all the difference is joft t<
1 comjnunity, which, instead of manufacturing
or itfelf, procures the fabrics requisite to its sup
>ly from other countries# The substitution 0
oreign for domestic manufactures is a transfer t<
oreign nations of the advantages accruing froa
he employment of machinery, in the modes, ii
which it is capable of being employed, with mol
itility and to the greatest extent.
The. cotton mill invented in England, withii
he last twenty' years, is a signal illustration o
he general proportion, which has been just ad
'anced.. In consequence of it, all the differen
■ rcceiVes for Spinning cotton are performed b;
ncans of machines, which are put in motioi
>y water, and attended chiefly by women ari<
;hildren j and by a smaller number of persons, ii
he whole, than are requisite in the ordinary mod*
>f spinning. And it is an advantage of great mo
r>ent that the operarions of this mill contjnui
vith convenience, during the night, as well a.
hrough the day. The prodigious effeCt of fuel
1 machine iseaiily conceived. To this inventior
s to be attributed eiTentially the immense pro
;reis, w nch has been so suddenly made in Great-
Britain in the various fabrics of cotton.
HI. As to the additional employment of claffe.
f the community, not originally engaged in the par
i:tiler business.
This is not among the least valuable of th<
neans, by which manufacturing institutions con
r.bute to augment the general flock of induftr]
rnd production. In places where those inftitu
ions prevail, besides the persons regularly enga
,fd in them, they afford occasional and extra em
Moyment to industrious individuals and families
f'no are willing to devote the leifore refuftin;
rom the intermitfions of their ordinary pursuit!
0 collateral labors, as a resource for multiply*
ng their acquisitions or their enjoyments. The
tiifbandmao himfelf experiences a new source ol
rofit and support from the increased industry ol
ii«> wife and daughters ; invited and ftimulatec
>y the demands of the neighboring manufactories.
Hefide this advantage of occasional employmem
o clafTes having different occupations, there i:
mother of a nature allied to it and of a fimilai
endency. This i?, the employment of person:
"ho would otherwise be idle (and in many cases f
burthen on the community) either from the biai
temper, habit, infirmity of body, or io me
)ther cauie, indilpofing or difqualifying them foi
he tpijs of the country. It i& worthy of particu
ar remark, that, in general, women and chii
3ren are rendered more ufeful, and the latter more
;arly ufeful, by manufacturing eftablifhmentSj
than they would otherwise be. Of the number
3f persons employed in the cotton manufaaoriei
3f Great-Britain, it is computed that 4-7 nearly
ue women and ciiildcen 5 of whwen the great
>roportion are children, and ma.ty of them of as
ender age.
And thus it appears to be one of she attributes
>f manufa&ures, and one of no small confer
juence, to give occasion to the exertion of a
greater quantity of industry, even by the fame
tumber of persons, where they happen to prevail,
ban would exist, if there were no such eftablifh
nents.
IV. As to the promoting cf emigration from fa
eign countries.
Men reluCtantly quit one course of occupation
nd livelihood for another, unless invited to it by
cry apparent and proximate advantages. Many,
vho would go from one country to another, if
hey had a prospect of continuing, with more be
nefit, the callings to which they have been edu
ated, will often not be tempted to change their
ituat'ron by the hope of doing better in feme other
vay. Manufacturers who, listening to the pow
rrful invitations of a better price tor their fabrics,
>r their labor, of greater cheapness of provisions
ind raw materiafs, of an exemption from the
hies part of the taxes, burthens and rettraints,
vhich they endure in the old world, of greater
>erfonal independence and consequence, under
he operation of a more e<juai government, and nt
vfcat is far more precioos than mere religious It
eration, a perfeCt equality of religious privileges ;
vould probably flock from Europe to the United
>tates to pursue their own trades or profefiions*
f they were once made fe'nfible of the advantages
hey would enjov, and were inspired with an af-.
"urance of encouragement and employment, wi'l,
with difficulty, be induced to transplant them
"elves, with a view to becoming cultivators of
and.
If it be true then, that it Is the inter eft of the
Jnited States to open every pofiible avenue to
rmigration from abroad, it affords a weighty ar
gument for the encouragement cf manufactures ;
vhich, for.the rcafon just aftigned, will lu-ve the
hongeft tendency to multiply the inducements
,o it.
Here is perceived an important resource, not
Dnly for extending the population, and with it
the ufeful and productive labor of the country,
but likewise for the pjofecution of manufactures,,
without deducting from the numberof hands which
might otherwise be drawn to tillage j and even
for the indemnification of agriculture for such as
might happen to be diverted from it. Many,
whom manufacturing views would induce to envi-
Ztate, weuld afterwards yield to the temptation?,
which the particular situation of this country
holds out to agricultural pursuits. And while
r.griculture would in other respeCts derive many
(ignal and unmingled advantages, from ihegrfwth
»f manufactures, it is a problem whether \Z
would gain or lose, as to the article of the number
»f persons employed in carrying it on.
V. As to the fumifhing greater feopefer the di- '
verfity of talents and difpojitions 9 <ivbi:b dijerimi
natt men from each other.
This is a much more powerful mean of augment
ing the fund of national industry than may at Aril
fight appear, it is a just observation, that minds
of the ft rongeft and moll aCtive powers for their
proper objects fall below mediocrity and labor
without effeCt, if confined to uncongenial pur
suits. And it is thence to be inferred, that the
results of human exertion may be immensely in
creased by diverfifying its objects. When all the
different kinds of industry obtain in a communi
ty, each individual can rind his proper element",
and can call into aCtivfty the whole vigor of Jits
nature. And the community is benefited by
the services of its respeCtive members, in th«
manner, in which each can serve it with mod
iffcft.
If there be any thing in a remark often to be
met with, namely, that there is, in thegemusof
the people of ihis country, a peculiar aptitude for
mechanic improvements, it would operate as a
forcible reason forgiving opportunities to the ex
ercising that species of talent, by the propagation
of manufactures.
VI. Ai to the affording a Mere ample ar.d va
rious field for enterprise.
This alio is of greater consequence In the ge
neral scale of national exertion, than might per
haps on a fuperficia) view be supposed, and ha 9
effedts not altogether difiimlar from those of the
circumstance last noticed. To chcrlfh and fii
mulate the activity of the human mind, by mul
tiplying the objeCts of enterprise, is not among
theleaft considerable of the expedients, by which
the. wealth of a nation may.be promoted. Even
things in themselves, not pofitivcly advantageous,
sometimes become so, by their tendency to pro
voke exertion. Every new fc,ene vvnich is open:d
o the busy nature of man tofroufe and exert it
felf, is the addition of a new energy to the ge
neral stock of effort.
The faint of enterprise, ufeful and prolific as it
s, roust necefiarily be contracted cr expanded
n proportion to the simplicity or variety of the
occupations and production*, which are to be
found in a society. It must be Jpfs in a nation of
mere cultivators, than in a nation of cultivator*
and merchants $ less in a nation of cultivators
ind merchants, than in a nation of cultivators,
artificers and merchants.
(To be continued.)
CHARLES BITTERS,
No. I 20,
South Market, near Fourth Street,
rlas received from New-York, ar.d manufafiored
BY LOT MERKEL,
A large and General Assortment of
Muffs Tippets, Trimmings
Edgings,
3reat Coats, Caps, Mitts & gloves linjd with Fur
which he wilt fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lowest Prices.
PRINTED BY
CHILD S AND SWAINE,
vt their orncr, no. 139, high-street.
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
rHJIAJtI LTHIA.