Voi. I.
AUTHENTIC.
(Never before printed.)
COPIES of the LAWS
Parted in the
TERRITORY of the UNITED STATES,
North-weft of the River Ohio,
By the Governor and Justices thereof
Agreeably to the Ordinance of Congress of Jul]
1 3> '7 6 "> and made out from the Original Re
rords in the Office ofthe Secretary for the fai<
Territory.
I
A LAW for Regulating afid EJlablifhini
the Militia in the Territory of tk
UnitedSStats,e s, north-we ft ofthe River Ohio
Passed July 25th, 1738.
ALL male inhabitants between the age of fix
teen and fifty, fhali be liable to, and per
military duty, and be formed into corps i;
the following manner :
Sixty-four rank and file shall form a company
Eight companies shall form a battalion.
Two battalions shall form a regiment.
There (ha)l be appointed to each company, on
captain, one lieutenant, one ensign, four fer
geauts, four corporals, one drummer, and on
Lft.r,
To a battalion there shall be appointed, on
lieutenant-colonel, one major, and one adjutant
To a regiment, one colonel.
The corps shall be divided into senior and ju
A<or ciaffes.
s2t:d whereas, in the infant state of a countr
defence and protection are absolutely eiTentiai—
All male inhabitants of the age of sixteen arm
upwards /hall be armed, equipped and accoutre*
in the following manner :
With a musket and bayonet, or rifle, car
iridge-box and pouch, or powder-horn, and bul
let pouch, with forty rounds of cartridges, or on
jound of powder and four pounds of lead, prim
ing-wire and brush, and fix flints.
And whereas for securing the principles of de
Jtace anu p.to
bled upon certain times, and at certain places
for examining and inspeCting the arms and ac
Coutiements, and for disciplining the men in ;
soldierly manner : And whereas the aflembling 01
the members of community, at fixed periods con
duces to health, civilization and morality, an<
such aflembling without arms, in a newly fettlec
country, may be attended with danger 5 There
fore, the corps shall be paraded at ten o'clock ii
the morning of each firft day ofthe week, armed
equipped and accoutred as aforefaid, in conveni
ent places next adjacent to the place or place
already assigned, or to be assigned for public wor
Hiip. At other times and places the corps fhal
be paraded for muster, exercise, and review, as th<
commander in chief may direCfc. And whereas
in the present state of the territory, it is neceffa
ry that guards be established—The commander ii
chief and the commanding officers of counties
and of fmaUer diftri&s, shall make such detach
ments, for guards and other military duty, as th<
public exigencies may in his or their opinion rs>
quire.
Those who have borne commissions, civil o
military in the service of the United States, 01
either of them, and who have been honorabi
oifcharged therefrom, and all such as have bee;
graduated in colleges or universities shall com
pofc the senior class. Males above the age 0
fifty shall be liable to military duty in cases o
aCiual iavalion only, and then at the direction o
the commander in chief. Officers of civil go
vernment, appointed by Congress, or commilfion
ed by the governor, are exempted from the dutie
aforefaid.
If any male inhabitant shall negleCt or re
fufe to appear at the fixed times and places 0
parade by this law eitablifned, he /hall be fine<
in the turn of twenty-five cents, unless he fhai
render an excu'fe to the fatisfaCiion of the com
manding officer of his corps. If any male a
aforefaid ihall neglect or refufe to appear at fuel
time and place as the commander in chief fhal
specially direCt for muster, review, and exercise
he (hall be fined in the sum of fifty cents, unlef:
cxcufed as aforefaid.
Jf any male, as aforefaid, shall neglect 01
refule to appear upon the order of the commando
in chief, or other officers as aforefaid, for guards
ex other ordinary military duty, or refufe toper
form the fame, lie shall be fined in the sum of one
hundred Ceats—-which offences shall be heard and
determined by the officers of the company tc
which the offender may belong, and upon con
viction, a warrant of distress ihall iflue from the
commander of such company, directed to either
of the sergeants of the fame, requiring hirn to
colieCt the fines aforefaid, and pay the lame into
the treasury of the town, city or county wherein
the convidtion shall have taken place, within
twenty days next after ifTuing such warrant, tor
the fccond and all succeeding offences in the cases
before mentioned, the persons charged with ha
ving committed the fame, shall be heard, tried
and sentenced by courts martial.
]f any male inhabitant as aforefaid, shall ne
By PHI LI P FR ENE AU.
MONDAY, December 19, 1791.
gleft or refufe to appearand perform his duty un
der the orders of the commander in chief, againfi
an enemy invading the ter.itory, or shall refufe,
disobey or neglect the orders given by his officers,
or any of them in time of adiion, he shall be
deemed guilty of cowardice and desertion, aßd b<
heard tried and sentenced by a court martial. Al
officers shall be attentive to the .forming) disci
piining, parading and commanding their refpec
tive corps, and to such otiier duties as shall re
fpe&ively bind them by thiriaw, and by the or
ders from rime to time to be given by the com
mandcr in chief.
If any officer shall be guilty of a breach of thi
law, or in any refpeft violate, or neglect his duty
he lhail be heard, tried and sentenced by a cour
martial.
A court martial shall conftft of, not more thai
thirteen members, nor less than five, whereof on
at least shall have rank, superior to that of a cap
tain*
A court martial shall be appointed by the com
mander in chiefs or the- commanding officers o
a regiment or battalion, but the commander ii
;hief only shall have the power of approving an<
:arryinginto effect sentences of courts martial
thereby the punilhment shall be or ai
officer cashiered.
11.
A LAW for ejiablifbirg General Courts of Qy a i
ter Sessions of the Peace {ar.J therein of tb
Powers of Jingy Ju/iices) and for
County Courts of Common Fleas; (ant
therein of tbe poiver of finale Judges to hear ant
determine uponfmall debts snd contratts;) and alj
a Law for ejlablijl/ir.g tbe Office of Sheriff
and for tbe appointment ofS heriffs.
PASSED AUGUST 23d, 1788.
THERE shall be a Court in each County, ftyle<
th» General Quarter Sefiions of the £eace
lolden ani kept four times in every year iii eacl
:ounty.
That for the County of Waflilngton shall b>
lolden and kept at the city of Marietta upon th:
"econd Tuesdays of March, June, September, an<
December. At>d there shall be a competent nam
ier of Justices of the Peace iti every of the coun
ies y appointed and ccmmiffioned by die Governs
inder the Seal of r the Territory, which Juflices, o
iny three of them, one at least being of the quo
um, shall and may bold the General Sefiions o
he Peace according to law.
Not less than three, not* more than five of th<
aid Juflices, in each county lhall be fpccially na
ned in a general com million for holding the fait
ourts of Quarter Sellions of the Peace.
The Justices or any three of them, one being o
he quorum as aforefaid, may hold Special Sef
ions when, and as often as occasion may require
And the said Justices, and each and every o
hem shall have power and authority, in and outo
effions to take ail manner of recognizances witt
r without surety for good behavior so keep th<
icace, or for appearance at a Superior Judicatory
whether to the Quarter Sefiions, ifout of the tim<
if feflions, or to the General Court of the Terri
ory as the cafe may be, to answer to charges exhi
bited or crimes committed in the view of fuel
uftices, or any of them, and whereof they hav<
iot competent power to hear and determine—Anc
n cafe any person or'perfon# shall refufe to ente
nto recognizance as aforefjid, and to find fureti
vhenthereunto required, it shall and may be law
ul for such Justice or Justices in or out of fef
ions as aforefaid, to commit the person or person
o refufing, to gaol, there to remain until he 0
hey shall comply with the order of such Juftic<
r Justices.
All recognizances for the peace, good behavio
r appearance at th-2 feflions which shall be taker
iy any of the Justice* out of sessions, shall be cer
ified into their laid general feflions of the peaci
obe holden next after the taking thereof.- an<
very recognizance taken in or out of feflions so
ufpicion of any manner of crime not tryable ii
aid court of Quarter Seffioos of the Peace, shall b
icrtified before the general court of the territor;
it their next succeeding term, or before a court o
3yer and Terminer and Gaol Delivery for th l
ounty to be holden next afrerthe taking thereof
vithouc concealing, detaining or embezzling th
ame. And in cafe any person or person s thallfor
eit his or thrir recognizances of the peace, goov
jchavior or appearance, the recognizances so for
"eited with the record of default, or cause of for
eiture shall be feni and certified without delay b;
he Justice or Justices of the Peace, into th:
Quarter Sefiions, if taken out of the Sefiions am
eturnable to the fame ; or into the Ceneral cour;
>f the territory, as the cafe may be, whether taker
n or out of feflions : lhac in either cafe procel!
nay ifTue according to law. All which forfeiture:
hall be levied by the proper officers, and paid tc
:he clerks of the respeCtive courts, to be paid b)
hem into the public trealuries ; that is to *ay, b)
he Clerk of the Quarter Sefiions into the '1 rca
rury of the county —and by the Clerk of the Gen
ial Court into the general Treasury of the terri
'°Onr or mote Justices of the Peace ftail unc
may out of leflioni, he«r and determine
to the course of the common law, petit crimes anc
mildemeanors wherein the punifliment ihail uc bj
fine only, and not exweding three dollars, and u
ifTffs and rax costs—And in cafe any person 01
>erfons lhall rcfufc to obey, fulfil and perforin, th
V licence or sentences given against him or them by
for JuiHce or Jirftices herein* it fliaH and may be
awful for such Justice or Jultices to. commit the
Iciinquent or delinquents to gaol, there to remain
jjitil fentsnce be performed.—-And it /hall be law
ui for such Justice or Justices whenever the crimc
h ill be committed in his or their presence or view,
:a fente»ce as aforefaid, without further examin
it a : And which fines iha!l be by such Jaftice
5r Justices paid to the Cleric of the Court of Quar
r- SeJions, and by him paid into the count]
iieafiity. All warrants ifTued by a Justice, 01
Justices out of Seilions, either for apprehending,
I'ecu-ring or committing to gaol, persons fufpe&ec
or convi&ed of crimes shall be under the hand an<
fcal of such Justice or Justices, and directed to ar
iflicej or officers whose duty it /hall be to executi
Criminal process; and such officer or officers fhal
abey the warrant or warrants ifiued as aforefaid.
1 he Courts of General Quarter Sefiwns of th<
Peace ihall and may hear,, determine arr i fenrenc<
according to the course of the common law, ah
:iwnes and misdemeanors, of whatever nature 01
kind, committed within their refpeciive counties
:he punifliment whereof doth not extend to life,
imb, imprisonment for more than one year, o»
orfeiture of goods and chattels, or lands and tene
nents, to the government of the territory.
And that persons inditted or outlawed in dn«
ouuty, who dwell) remove, or are received intc
mother county, maybe brought to justice, the
aid courts of General Quarter Seilions of the
Peace, fljall and may diredl their writs or precepts
j/ider the leal of the courts, and signed by th«
:)erks refpedtively, to ail or any of the fheriffs, 01
»ther officers empowered by law to execute cfi mi
irfl process in each or any of the counties within
fee territory as the cafe may be, requiring to tak<
w>d bring before said court, such persons indi&ec
>r outlawed as aforefaid. And the said Court ol
garter Seilions shaH and ma/ ilfue fubpeenas
ind other warrants under the seal of the court, arm
!i£ned by the clerlf, into any county or place in th<
arritory for summoning or bringing any person tc
jive evidence in and upon any matter or cause, ex
itninable or tryable before such court, under fuel
>nins and penalties as fubpeenas or warrants of tha
ti+ld are by law granted and awarded. And .
ft:ftice or Justices out of feifions, may in like man
3.n/) inkier Jimilar penalties, grant fubpcsnuu
nd warrants to any place or places withii
heir refpe&ive counties,
[To bt continued.]
LIBERTY of the PRESS.
Translated ExtraEl from M, Robefpierre\
fpt&h in thz National Affcmbly, on th
23d of Augujt 1791.
THE liberty of the Press is the onl)
iffe£tu#l check of arbitrary power, Th<
:onfequcnce\has been, the uniform en
ieavour of all such governments so tc
nterpret this liberty, as finally to ren
ier it a mere nullity. The moment of ;
-evolution is perhaps a time the leaf
"eafonable for difcuiTing the great prin
:ipies upon which the liberty of th€
jrefs is founded, bccaufe at such a tim«
l! 1 parties of men are the fubje&s of th<
ittacks of the prels from one quarter oi
mother, and consequently are too fore
C> reaion deliberately on granting it the
Full extent of liberty it ought to have—
But, let it be the glory of the Nationa
Aflembly of France' to be above preju
dice and to disregard all personal con
federations—this is the example that ha:
t>een set before us by the United State:
America, on the great question of th<
liberty of the prels.—The liberty o
publ'fhing our sentiments is the greai
bulwark of liberty, and can only be li
rfited, even in the smallest degree, b)
iefpoticgovernmcnts.—ls the press fret
when it is prohibited from publifhiiU
:cnfure ana defamation of chara&ers i
[ think you will agree with me that it i:
not—There is no liberty of the pref:
where the author of any piece is liabh
:o arbitrary prosecution—and here ]
will observe, that there is an elfentia
iifference between criminal aUs and th<
fffcnccs of the. press.—Criminal a£lion:
ire of a palpable and sensible nature,
rhey can be proved in conformity tc
:ertain established rules and by infalli-
methods, after which the law can
:ake its course without any mixture oi
arbitrary proceeding. As to mere opi
nions, puolifhed to the world, their me
rits or their criminality must always de
pend upc*u rational principles, justice,
and public intercifc, and often-times up
on- a multitude of peculiarcircum fiances.
which are neceflarily productive of great
uncertainty. The moll particular cir
cumfpeftion, therefore, is necessary in
naking laws to regulate the liberty of
he press» Laws expressly enacted to
ecuts the liberty of the press have al
ways, in the end, proved the infallible
neans of annihilating it. Recollett,
Gentlemen, what has passed under the
ate French government : under pre
enceof public good, writers, especially
political writers, lived a life of perfeeu
iioti and misery from those whose duty
t was to proteO: them. What were the
writings, which, prior to the revoluti
an, were the objects of such marked fe
yerity ?—The very writings which
we at this day admire, and whose au
thors have been thought worthy the ho
mage of the nation. A proof this, that
ime and situation alone determine whe
;her an author fliall be perfccuted or be
;rowned with honour. Only three
,'ears ago the Social Compacl, was con
demned as a treasonable work. John
[ames RoufTeau, the man who did the
noft tp bring about the present revolu
ion—that very John James Roffeau,
.vasby adecreeof the nation, pronounc
:d a traitor, a man of dangerous princi
jles, a seditious pest—-and nothing pre
sented his neck being brought to the
>lock, but the fears the government be
jan to entertain, in the latter part of his
;ime, of the couragc of the patriotic par
:y in France.—But even at this late pe
riod, if despotism had only known her
remaining strength and influence over
he nation, existing by the force of long
labit—Rouflcaus'head would have paid
or the ferviceshe rendered to mankind,
ind he would have addedone to the num
>er of the illuflrious vi&ims whom fa
laticifm, delpotlfm and tyranny have al
ways considered as too dangerous to
heir cause to be fufFered to live. Be
iflured, then, Gentlemen, that nothing
s of a more delicate nature, perhaps no
hing is more impossible, than to make
in equitable law to infli& penalties, for
he opinions which men may publish,
specially on those matters which are
he natural obje&s of human reason,
inowledge and enquiry. What you.
lave done, is all that can be done in this
:afc ; and that is, to consider him as a
criminal, who plainly and explicitly
not by any kind of implication] oifends
igainft the spirit of the law.
Further than this you cannot go with
aut infringing the liberty of the press
in its essential properties and princi
ples.
g—. 1 ,g xju l— mi —
From, a late French. Paper. I
TO those who read history it must be
Fatiguing to observe the odious confe
rences of dijiindion of birth with all
nations who have fuffered such dillinc-*-
rions to prevail among them. We may
however, gratify our risible faculties
when wc cast an eye upon the ridicule
which has attended those diflin&ions.
Hereditary honours have ever been
food for the pen of the satirist, becaufc
:hey are absurd in their very princi
ples.
The eflfcnce of family diftin&ion de
pends upon the feudal law. The mo
ment it falls under the view of the laws
sf equity and nature it is annihilated.
What then shall we think of hereditary
honaurs and titles being put up at sale ?
When we fee a man, composed of the
jafefl materials [provided he has only
tiad low cunning enough to amass a for
:une] purchasing afterwards, as it were
in the market house, the right of be
aming the founder of a noble race, and
anticipating among his defendants,
lords, dukes, and peers !
The best method to restore those per
rons to their senses who are admirers of
titles, and all the nonsense of quality
and nobility, would be to recapitulate
the quarrels of Princes with their legal
defcondants ; the disputes of these with
Numb. 15.the Dukes, and of the. Dukes, again with
the gentry. la «11 thcfc contests, the
truth alwiiys cajne out, that the sceptred
and titled men were the meanest of men ;
not so from nature, but from education
and habits which had left little ot no
thing to their tjwn exertions ; -for f.rQc
greatness is always acquired and irribib
ed in the severe ichool of necessity. In
the mod superstitious nations of the
earth, iittlfe inert, [in reality such] W-ere
always fond of being thought gods, a'nc!
therefore affetted a veil of obicurity tc
conceal their littleness from the vulgar
The moment they quarrelled, the vei,
was withdrawn, and with it their pre
tended divinity.
Lettrs pass from diftinftions ofbirt!
to those of decorations, ribbons, and or
dcrS : and here we are at once fickenec
with the filly apparatus. What poflibl.
idea of honour could be affixed to tht
order of the Holy Ghost. or cf the Staff
when a Madame Deprie created 58 Che
valiers and seven Marfhalls of Franci
in one day?— Who can forbearlaugh
ter when, in reading history, they fei
men, totally ignorant of war, purchafins
titular dignities, with the motto of Btl
lircs virtutis prcemium, when underneatl
fnould in justice, have been writter
Rifuiiiiekeatis, Amici P—But these abuse:
and follies are wearing out with time
men have been for ages in a comparative
ftatc of childhood, and the day is athanc
when they will be universally afhamec
of the toys and baubles befitting th<
ch.ild.ijh age, as thefcietvce of governmen
becomes better understood.
T H I L A DE LP II I A,
C O NCR E S S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednessay, December 14.
Mr. Sedgwick from the committee
to whom was referred certain propofi
tions of amendments to the Conllitutioi
cf the United States, made a report,
The House agreed to the amendment:
rropoled by the Senate, to the bill so.
the relief of David Cook, and f homa;
Campbell.
In committee of the whole, on the
firft amendment proposed by the Senate
to the repreientation bill, which being
lead, is in the words following :
" Strike out the firft fe&ion and sub
ftitute the following.
" Be it enacted by the Senate anc
House of Representatives of the Unitec
States of America in Congress affem
bled, That from and after the third da)
of March one thousand seven hundrec
ninety three, and until Qtherwilt
provided for hy law, the Houle of Ke
prefentatives fhallbe compoled of raem
bers who Ihall have been chosen by the
people of the fcveralfiatts, in the propor
tion of one Rcprefentative lor ever)
thirty-three thousand persons in eacl
slate, computed according to the rul<
prelcribed by the Constitution of th<
IJnited States; that is to fay; Frqm th(
State of New-Hampshire, four inem
bers ; the (late of Maffaclwletts fourteen
the state of Connecticut, seven; the flat,
of Rhode-11l and, two ; the state of Ver
jrioftt, two ; the state of New-York
ten ; the state of New-Jersey, five ; th.
state of Pennsylvania, thirteen; the ftat.
of Delaware, one ; the state of Mary
land, eight ? the ftatc of Virginia, nine
teen; the state of Kentucky, two ; th.
'state of North-Carolina, ten ; and th.
state of Georgia, two members."
A motion was made by Mr, . ining, t<
amend the said amendment by ftrikinj
out from the words " Jevcrd Jlatcs ' tc
the end of the amendment, andinfertm<
in lieu thereof the following :
" In the number following, to wit:
" In the state of New-Hamplhire
five members; the state of Maflachufetts
Jixteen ; the state of Connecticut, eight
the state of Rhode-Island, two ; the
of Vej-mont, three : the state of New
York, eleven ; the state of New-Jeifey
fix : the state of Pennsylvania, fourteen
the state of Delaware, two ; the state o
Maryland, nine ; the state of \ irginia
twenty-one; the state of Kentucky
two; the ftafe of North-Carolina, twelve
and the state of Georgia- two mem
beis."
After some debate the motion v.'a:
difagieed to and the committee r fe anc
reported. Mr. Vining's moti m via:
again brought forward in the Houle
and the question being put it passed ir
the negative.
Yeas—Fifhcr Attes, Egbert Benfon,
Elias Eoudinotj Sheirjaftiub Bourne.
Abraham Clarke, Jonathan Dayton
Elbridge Gerry, Ntciiolas G'ilman, Ben
jafnin Goodhue, James Gordon, Willi
am Barry Grove, Aaron Kitchell, Sa
muel Livermore, Nathaniel Niles, C. C
Schoonmaker, Theodore Sedgwick, Je
remiah Smith, Israel Smith, John Steele
George Thatcher, Thomas Tredwell
John Vining, and Jeremiah Wadl
worth.—Yeas 23.
Nay's.—John Baptist Ashe x Abraharr
Baldwin, Robert Barnwell, Benjamir
Bourne, John Brown, William Find
ley, Thomas Fitzfimons, William B
Giles-, Samuel Griffin, Thomas Hart
ley, James Hillhoufe, Daniel Huger, If
rael Jacobs, Philip Key, John W. Kit
tera, Richard Bland Lee, Nathaniel Ma
con, James Madifoti, Andrew Moore
Freds-rick Augustus Muhlenberg, Wil
liam Vans Murray, John Page, Jolial
Parker, Joshua Seney, Upton Sheridiiu-.
William Smith, Samuel Sterret, Jona
thijn Sturges, Thomas Sumpter, Pet;:
Silvester, Thomas Tuder Tucker, A
braham Venable, Artemas Ward, An
thony Wayne, Alexander White, Hugl
Williamlon, and Francis Willis.—
Nays 37.
And then the main quefhon bem;
put, that the House agree to the amend
ment proposed by the Senate, it paffec
in the negative.
Yeas—Fisher Ames, Robert Barn£
well, Egbert Ben-Ton-, Elias Boudinot
Shearjalhub Bourne, Benjamin Bourne
Abraham Clarke, Jonathan Dayton
Thomas Fitzfimons, Nicholas Gilman
Benjamin Goodhue, James Gordon
Thomas Hartley, James Hillhoufe, Ifra
el Jacobs, Aaron Kitchell, John W
K'ttera, Samuel Livermore, Nathan it
Niles, Theodore Sedgwick, Jeremiad
Smith, Israel Smith, William Smith
Jonathan Sturges, Peter Silveftet
George Thatcher, John Vining, Jeremi
ah Wadfworth and Artemas Ward.—
Yeas 29.
Nays—John Baptist Afhe, Abrahan
Baldwin, John Brown, William Find
ley, Elbridge Gerry, William B. Giles,
Samuel Griffin, William Barry Grove
Daniel Huger, Philip Key, Richarc
Bland Lee, Nathaniel Macon, James
Madison, Andrew Moore, Frcdcricl
Augustus. Muhlenberg, Wjlliam Vaj-j
Murray, John Page, Jofiah Parker
Cornelius C. Schoonmaker, Joshua Sc
ney, Upton Sheridine, John Steele, Sa
muel Sterrett, Thomas Surnpter, Tho
mas Tredwell,-Thomas Tuder Tucker
Abraham Venable, Anthony Wayne
Alexander White, Hugh Williaml'OT
and Francis Willis.—Nays 31.
The other amendment proposed b)
the Senate, which was to alter the wore
Hate into dijlritt, was agreed to by tit<
House.
Thursday, December 15.
The petitions of Elizabeth Marx, anc
as John Hays refpefting loft certificates
were read and referred to the Secretary
as the Treasury. Of Elijah Janes, Amo:
Miner, Wm. M'Elhatten, John Mut
terfpach, and Richard Stack, refpetlim
wounds received, to the Secretary a
war—Of James Dougherty, Philip New
houfe, Conrad Meyer, Conrad Sheyqr
Edward Cavenough, Henry M'Na'ily
John S. Cunitz, Nicholas Shultz, Con
rad Spangenberg, Henry Funk, John
Fulmer and John Moyer, for compenfa
tion for lervices rendered, also to th<
Secretary at War.
The House then went into commiltc;
on the Post office bill.
The question under confiderat'on, t<
strike out the second fe&ion, as sol
lows :
" Be it further ena&cd, That it fhal
be lawful for the post-master general, U
jftabliih such other roads as poll roads
as to him may seem necessary : provided
:hat no such eftablifhinent (hall be mad.
:,r continued, whereby the revenue, an
ting from the gtneral post office, maybe
exceeded And to insert, in lieu there
jf, a clause, making it the duty of the
post niafter general, from time to time
to report to Congress such other roadaa:
post roads, as to him may seem neceffa
' v to be eftablilhed ; together with such
profit and expence, as will, in his opini
on, attend the eftabliftiment of the
fame.
The question being taken on ftrikinsj
out the feftion, was carried ; and. a,''ei
lundry modifications, a clause insert;:;:
in its stead, empowering the post mallei
general, under certain reftriftions, tr.
cause mails to be carried on roads not
particularly designated in theb.ill.
The coirinaittce role and reported pro
gress. .. 4
Amcffage iiom the Senate, informing
the Houle, 'hat they - mfrt o*l then
amendment diiagreed to by the Houle,
to the Reprefcntation Hill.
Friday, December 16.
A melTage from the Prejideat, inform
ing that he has approved and lighed the
adt for the relict of David Cook anc
Thomas Campbell.
Petitions of Robert M'Culloch, pray
ing relief in consideration of wound
received ; and of Joleph Liplong in be
half of the late John Nailer, rclpettm:
pay-, &c. were read and referred to tht
Secretary at War.
The Houle then went into committet
on the post office bill—-lundry amend
ments were propoled, some of them a
dopted, and others dilagrced to—th(
committee proceeded as tar as the 19tl;
fettion of the bill, they then rose, and th.
Houle adjourned till Monday.
—1 — L-.J—— — - -
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft Seflion, begun and held at the city o
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennfylvani;
011 Monday the twenty-fourth of *stober, oik
thoul'and ieven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT for the Relief of David Cook
and Thomas Campsell.
BE it enacted by tkeSE nateuw^Housj
of the Unitec
States of America in Congress assembled
That David Cook, a captain of artil
lery in the late war, and who, beirig fho
through the body at the battle of Mtm
mouth, i§ rendered mcapablc to obtair
his livelihood by labor, fliall be placec
on the pension-lilt of the United States
and (nail be entitled to one third of hi:
monthly pay, as a captain of artillery
Provided, That he return into the trea
hiry-afhce, a fuin equivalent to twe
thirds of his commutation of half pay
being the proportion of his pen lion ti
tjie amount of his commutation.
And be it further enact, m. That Thoma:
Campbell be placedon the penflon-T.lt
and trta't the half pay of a captain of in
fantry be allowed to the laid Thoma:
who has been so injured by
repeated wounds in the feivice of hi;
Country, that he is unable to fuppor
himfelf by labor : Provided, That he
return into the trealurv-oflice a sum
equivalent to the whole of his commu
tation of hall pay.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of tht
House of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-Prejident.cf th.
United States, and Prejiden.
oj the Senate.
Approved, Decemberfixteenth, 1791.
G. Washington, President of the
United States.
] * ALEXANDRIA (VjrginiaJ Dec. 8.
A good deal has been laid in thi:
town refpe&ing the well-born, frj
clefs, high-birth, good family, &c.~
insomuch that several pcrfonsj fond oi
disquisitions of this fort, have been let
to enquire, what is meant by the phrase
good family.?-—it is evident, men have
tadly miltmderftood each other on thi:
lubjeft—One understands the term gooc
to mean rich—another, to mean honesl —
a third, Muflnous —and, a fourth healthy.
It is certainly high time wc came to a
this matter. There
arc not a few families in these part;
or the United States who have import
ed a late edition of Pope's moral eil'ays.
with alterations and amendments. In
the old editions the two following lines
ran thus—
But by your father? worth ifyeurs you rate,
Ojuni me It.ojt only who weregood and great.
in the new caption above mentioned:
these lines are thus altered :
But by your father? worth if yours ym rate,
G unt methife only who had call) and plare.
Our conititution provides againftthe
existence of titles of nobility.' I wish
it had gone a little farther, and prohi
bited the airs of it alio. What harm
would it do to pass a prohibitory law
tending to discourage principles incom
patible with the genius of republi
can government ? The title of it'might
be, An ad to repr.-fs the effervef ence of arif
locratit pride dvdinfulencl. — Suppofinj
also, -we fliould pass another law, en
atb&gj that "no man (hall hold him
felf to. be of a better family than his
grandfather?"—At least, in tracing the
line of genealogy let there be some given
point to retur "to, io that a man in
co.unti.ng up his progenitors, may know
whether he is to ltop at a Duke or a
Tinker. °
for the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
M 0 N E 7.
Observations written pojteri'or to tk'.
circular Address p/ Gon-cuessiuSept.
arid priur to their A3, of March,
1780.]
1.1 has been taken for an axiom in all our rea-
Toniagsbn the fubjett of ffnaflee, that sup
posing the quantify and demand of things vendi
ble in a countiy iq remain the fame, their piice
Vary according to the variation in the quan
;ity of the circulating medium; in other words,
hat the value of money will be regulated By its
quantity. I shall submit to the judgment of the
jublic some considerations which determine mine
o reject the proportion as founded in error.
Should they be deemed not absolutely conclulive,
hey seem at leall to fhe'w that it is liable to too
many excepfioris and relto£tion's to be taken for
panted as a fundamental truth".
If the circulating medium be of universal va
ue as specie, a I'ocal increase or decrease of its
quantity, will not, whilst a communication fub
ills with other countries, produce a correfpond
-snt rife or fall in its value. The reason is obvi
3Us. When a redundancy of universal money
prevails in any one country, the holders of it
snow* their interest too well to watte it in extra
vagant prices, when it w:uld be worth so much
more to them elsewhere. When a deficiency
happens, thole who hold commodities, rather
ban part with them, at an undervalue in one
:ountry, would carry them to another. The va
riation of prices, in these cases, cannot therefore
exceed the expence and insurance of traiifpoita
ion.
Scppofe a country totally unconnected with
Europe, or with any other country, to pofTefs
pecie in the fame proportion to circulating pro
perty that Europe does ; prices there would cor
•efpqnd with, those in Europe. Suppose that
0 much specie weie "thrown into circulation a3
:o make the quantity exceed the proportion of
Europe tenfold, without any change in commo
dities, or in the demand for them : as soon as
uch an augmentation had produced its
prices would rife tenfold ; or which is the fame
hing, money would be depreciated tenfold. In
his (late of things; fuppol'e again, that a free atid
ready communication were opened between this
:ountry and Europe, and that the inhabitants of
the former, were made sensible of the value of
theil- money in the latter; would not its value
among themselves immediately cease to be regu
lated by its quantity, and aflimiiate itfelf to the
foreign value r
Mr. Hume in his discourse 011 the balance of
trade supposes, tf that if four fifths of all the mo
ney in Britain were annihilated in one night, and
:he nation reduced to the fame condition, in this
particular, as in the reigns of the Harrys and
Edwards, that the price df all labour and commo
dities wotlld fink in proportion, and every thincr
be fold as cheap as in those ages : That, '
if aH the money in Britain were multiplied five
fold in one night, a contrary effe6t would follow."
1 his very ingenious writer seems not to have
considered that in the reigns of the Hariys and
Edwards, the state of prices m the circumjacent
nations correfoonded with that of Britain ; where
as in both ot his suppositions, it would be nolefs
ibfcn four filths different. Imagine that such a
difference really existed, and remark the confe
rence . I rade is at present carried on between
Britain and the red of Europe, at a profit of 15
Dr 20 per cent. Were that profit railed to 400
per cent, would not their home market, in cafe
?f such a tall of prices, be so exhausted by ex
portation-—and in cafe of such a rife of prices, be
io overflocked with foreign commodities, as im
mediately to restore the general equilibrium.
Now, to borrow the language of the fame author,
'' the fame causes which would redress the ine
quality were it to happen, mufl forever prevent
t, without lome violent external operation."
1 he situation of a country connected by com
mercial intercourse with other countries, may be
zompared to a fingte town or province whose irt
.ercourfe with other towns and provinces results
om poetical connexion. Will it be pretended
that if the national currency were to be accumu
lated in a (ingle town or province, so as to exceed
its due proportion five or tenfold, a correspond
ent depreciation would ensue, and every thing be
told five or ten times as dear as in a neighboring
town or province ?
If the circulating medium be a municipal one,
as paper currency, still its value does not depend
dl its quantity. It depends on the credit of the
Rate iliuing it, and on the time of its redemption;
and is no otherwise afFeftted by the quantity, than
as the quantity may, be luppofed to endanger orpojl
pone the redemption.
1 hat it depends in part on the credit of the if
(uer, no one will deny. If the credit of the lfluer
therefore be perfe&ly unfufpe&ed, the time of
redemption alone will regulate its value.
1 o lupport what is here advanced, it is fuffici
ent to appeal to- the nature of paper money. It
confmi ot bills or notes of obligation payable in4>e..s to the bearer, either on demand or at a fu
ture day. Of the firft kind is the paper curren C)
of Britain, and hence its equivalence tc specie,
Of the latter kind is the paper currency of the
United States, and hence its inferiority to specie
But if its being ledeemable not on demand bu
at a future day, be the cause of its inferiority
the distance of that day, and net its quantity
ought to be the measure of that inferiority. .
It has been thewn that the valce'of specie doe
not flu&uate according to local fluctuations it
its quantity. Great Britain, in which there i;
such an iinmenfity of circulating paper, (hew;
that the value of paper depends as little on it:
quantity as that of specie, when the paper repre
tents specie payablton demand. Letusfuppofe
that the circulating notes of Great Britain, in
ilead of being payable on demand, were to be
redeemed at a future day, at the end of one yeai
for example, and that no interest was due or
them. If the fame assurance prevailed that at th<
end of the year they would be equivalent to fpe
c-e, as now prevails that thev are every momen
equivalent, would any other effect result frorr
such a change, except that the notes would (uffei
a depreciation equal to one year's interest ? The)
would in that cafe repiefent, not the nomina
sum expieffed on the face of them, but the fun
remaining after a dedu£lion of one year's inter
est. But if when they represent the full nomi
nal sum of specie, their circulation contribute;
eo more to depreciate them, than the circulatior
of the specie itfelf would do ; does it not follow
that it they repiefented a sum of specie less thai
the nominal inlcriptiofi, their circulation ough
to depreciate them no more than fomuch specie
if substituted, would depreciate itfelf ? We ma]
extend the time from one, to five, or to twentj
years , but we shall find no other rule of depre
ciation than the loss of the intermediate interest
What has been here supposed with refpetl tc
Great Britain has actually taken place in the Uni
ted States. Being engaged in a neceflary wai
without Ipecie to defray the expence, or to sup
poit paper emiflions for that purpose redeemable
on demand, and beingat the fame time unable
to borrow, no resource was left, but to emit bill:
ot credit to be redeemed in fu:ure. The infe
ricrity of these bills to specie was therefore inci
dent to the very nature of them. If they hac
been exchangeable on demand for specie, they
would have been equivalent to it: as they weri
not exchangeable 011 demand, they were inferio
to it The degree of theij inferiority must con
fequently be e'.limated by the time of their be
coming exchangeable for specie, that is the tim<
of their redemption. -
To make it liill more palpable that the value o
our currency does not depend on its quantity, lei
us put the cafe, that' Congrcfs had, during the
firft year of the war, emitted five millions of dot
larsto be redeemed at the end of ten years; that
during the second year of the war, they had emit
ted ten millions more, but with due security tha
the whole fifteen millions {hould be redeemcc
in five years ; that, duting the two fucceedinj
years, they had augmented the emissions to one
hundred millions, but from the difcoVerv of some
extraordinary fouices of wealth, had been able
to engage for the redemption of the whole furr
in one year: It is atked, whether the deprecia
tion, under these circumftauces, would have in
created as the quantity of money increafed—o
whether on the contrary, the money would no
have risen in value, at every accession to it
quantity P
[Vo be eiontimied.]
RICHMOND, Dcc. 9.
topyof a Utter from Capt. John Rogers, to his Ex
ccllerccy Htniy Lee, Esq. dated R'oad 12 miles caj
qj New London, Campbell county, Aov. 26.
" On my way from Spanish Americ:
across by land, I passed the Kentuck)
country* where a few days after my at
rival, and three days previous to my de
parture from thence (which was on the
15th instant) we received certain intel
ligence of the defeat of our army undei
the command of general St. Clair. Il
does not appear that the army were ta
ken by surprise, as the centinels fircc
above sixty (hots atjhe enemy before
the atlion came on ; during which time
I Xuppofe.the veterans of the fejreft were
taking their position; as it appears thS)
had completely surrounded the army
and attacked it on all fides at day break
tomahawk in hand against bayonets
They twice surrounded St. Clair's tent
being, (as he generally is) to ill with the
gout, that he could not get out until he
was set on horleback, and then conduct
ed the retreat. The Indians fought the
army five miles on their retreat; anc
were prevented from tomahawking the
General in his tent by the vigilance oi
the troops who defended it. The battle
was fought thirty miles from fort Jeffer
fon, and fifteen miles from the ground
on which Harmar was- defeated. Iht
remains of the arfny are in the above
named fort, and have only twelve dayj
provisionS, the ilefh of pack horses.
Xhe Indians appeared in force around
the fort the next day. St. Clair passed
on himfelf to the next fort about sixty
miles from fort Jefferfon, where it is laid
he is waiting assistance to .relieve the
fort. All the leading charadters in
Kentucky are turning out, and it was
thought that a body of 1500 or 2000
horsemen would go to the relief of the
army. The Mountain Leader, a Chick
afaw, with a part of his nation, and a
part of the Ift regiment, were out on
command, iaid to have been ordered to
lome small town.— I here is no word of
them ; it is generally feared they will be
:ut off, as they could know nothing of
:he defeat of the army. There was a
ccond party Ox the Chiekafaw nation
jnder tne great leader Colbert, on their
way to join our army, but had not reach
id it; they will go on with the relief.
I"nere was only one Indian of that na
:ion in this a&ion, who it is laid killed
ind scalped eleven of the enemy with
lis own hands, and engaging with the
12th, he fell greatly lamented by the
Americans. General Butler was, wound
ed, and carried to his tent to have his
wounds drefTed; an Indian watched
where "he was carried to, then broke
:hrough our men, and tomahawked the
general and the doctor who was drefling
lis wounds, before he was killed by
Dur men. It is thought the whole of the
ofs, including the army and its follow
ers, amounts to 800 persons. The above
appears to be the general account as re
reived in Kentucky by sundry persons
Prom the army, generally corresponding,
md I believe may be relied on."
PHILADELPHIA,
December 19.
ExtraEl of a tetter from a gentleman in Kentucky
to his friend, in this city.
" The news of the defeat of the troops undej
jov. St. t lair by the Indians, so far from difheart
:ning has filled every man in Kentucky with :
liirft for revenge. General Scott has proceeded
oward Fort JcfFcrfori with fifteen hundred moun
:ed militia and rifle men. As these people art
oerfe&ly acquainted with the Indian mode of war
are, and will not be encumbered with artillery
md other firailar apparatus (generally useless ir,
:xpeditions of this kind) we are {till in hopes oJ
Deing in poffeflion of • the Maume.e Towns boforc
winter;''
A letter from Albany received on Saturday b)
i gentleman in this city, mentions, that " moil oJ
:he persons concerned in tlie murder of Mr. Hoge
joome, late Sheriff of Albany county, have beer
ipprehended and thrown into jail. The prifoner c ;.
t is said, appear very unconcerned, and do not re
gard their situation as any way critical or danger
ous. The person that shot the fheriff has made so
ight of the matter as to have entered into the
jonds of wedlock iince his confinement. The la
3y, I am sorry to fay, runs a fair chance of turning
out a hempen widow."
ExlraEl of a letterfrom Boson, Dec. 4.
" If our accounts from the southward are to be
lepended on, the spirit of Canal making is ad
vancing rapidly amongst the people of thole
lates.—A junction between the Hudson and Lake
Z)l\amplain is much talked of—the Delaware and
:he Sufquehanna Rivers, and the two bays of De
,aware and Chefapeke, it is said, will in all proba
bility be loon united. To these may be added the
Canal that is in contemplation between Santee and
Cooper Rivers in South Carolina. It is certain
that for a comparatively small expence the United
States-could open an easy communication by wa
ter from Boston to St. Marys Ri?er in Georgia,
for vessels of seven feet draught, without ever en
tering the main Ocean, except in a very few
places. The advantages of such a navigation, par
ticularly' in time of war are evident. —As to our
felves,the iegiflature of this state has determined
to cut a canal across Cape Cod, irom Buzzards
bay into Barnftable bay. The diflance is not
more than eight ipiles, and the canal is to be ol
such a depth as to float veiTels, of any size under
three fathom draught. The expence is estimated
at one and twenty thousand pounds, this curren
cy ; an expence really not worth mentioning
when put in competition with the perpetual loflej
to the commerce of this fiate alone, in the danger
ous navigation round Cape -od, which by means of
this canal will be entirely avoided.—Another ca
nal is in contemplation from the head of Taunton
river to North river,about miles south of Boston,
which will be of immense advantage particularly
to the trade between Boston and New-York. 1
Two laws have some time since been pafled for
.the diftridl of Maine,(commonwealth of Maflachu
fetts)pointedly severe against a vice, perhaps equal
ly fafhionable, tho' not equally the object of legal
reprehenfiort in situations more southward. One
of those laws ena&s that, " a lift of the names of
all persons reputed Common drunkards, tiplers,
gamesters, and such as mifpend their time and
eftate6 in gambling and tipling houses, fhail be
polled up in the houses and (hops of all tavern-kee -
pers, inn hoklers and rfetailers within that part ol
the country where they rcfide. ' —The other law
Provides that, " common drunkards, such as ne
gled their callings or employments, mifpend what
they earn, and do not provide for themlelves and
their families, shall be lent to the house of cor
rection, or to the goal of the County, where no fuel]
house is ipecially provided.''
Accounts from Cape Francojs are received
(via Baltimore) to the 26th ol November. The
ravages of the negroes were Hill continued with
Unabated fury at that time. The account, how
ever, of Povt au Prince being burnt proves to be
without foundation.
PUBLIC OPINION.
PUBLIC opinion sets bounds to every go
vernment, and is thermal fovereignin every
Free one*.
As there arc cases where the public opinion
miift be obeyrd'by tfie government; so there arc
:.a(es, where not being fixed, it may be influenced
by the government. ThisdiUinction, if kept ir
i/iew, would prevent 01 decide many debates or
he relpect clue fiom the government to the fen
im en is oft he p cop le.
in proportion as government is influenced by
opinion, it mast "be 10, by whatever influence:
opinion. This decides the question concerning
i 'Corijliiutional declaration of Rig/it's, which re
juires an influence on government, by becoming
i part of the public opinion.
1 he larger a countly,, the less easy for its rea
opinion to be alcei iained, and the less difficult tc
je counterfeited; when ascertained or prefu
:ned, the more refpeflable it is in the eyes of in
iividuals.— This is favorable to the authority ol
government. For the fame reason, the more ex
enfive a country, the more infignificant is each
individual in his own eyes. — This may be unfa
vorable to liberty.
Whatever facilitates a general intercourse o!
■entiments, as good roads, domestic commerce
i free prefe, and particularly a circulation of news
lapers through the entire body of the people, anc
Hcprfentatives going from, and returning amonk
very part of t/mi } is equivalent toacontraftiono
crritoiial limits, and is favorable to liberty
vhere these may be too exterifive.
ExtraQ of a Utter from a gentleman in Alexandri
toianother in Baltimore, dated on Friday lajl.
" lam this morning informed, that a gentle
nai is arrived in town from the westward, wh<
)rings accounts of the capture of fort Jefferfot
)y the Indians ; but as 1 have not seen the per
on, 1 cannot fay what credit is due to the report.'
On Friday last the dire&ors of the Nationa
Manufacturing Society, met at Brunfwick ir
Mew-Jersey, when William Duer, Esq. of New
ifork, was chosen governor, and Archibald Mer
:er, Esq. of New-Jersey, deputy, governor. Th<
lire&ors have voted that the fir ft payment fhal
>e made on or before the 13th of January next
ind that to accommodate the fubferibers, the
>ayment may he made either at the bank of New
fork, the bank at Philadelphia, ©r to Mr. Ncl
onor to Colonel Ba)ard, at Brunfwick, in New
[erfey. No place was fixed upon at which th<
mildings Ihould be erected for the manufa&ory
["he dire&ois are to meet again 011 the I,7th c
fanuary.
By letters from Lancafler, we are informed
hat, on the morning of Wednefdav last, a dread
ul lire broke out in that place, which soon com
niinicated to leveral houses, and, from the vio
ence of the wind that prevailed at the time
eemed to threaten tiniverfal deftiu&ion, butwai
it with much difficulty checked, tho 5 no
intil it had destroyed a brew house and a large
lone dwelling house, together with a bain, aii(
>oo bushels of wheat.
English Eajl-Indies.
By Lord Cornwallis's letter from India, datec
kpril 21, 1791 —It appears that the success o
he Britifti forces Under his Lordlhip's commam
n that country, has been very cOnfiderable. The
:apture of Bangalore is represented as having
outnbuted greatly to humble the ambition o
l ippoo Saib, who has been gradually advancing
limlelf to such an extent of power and resource,
is greatly to endanger the polfetlions of the Eng
ilh East-India company in the Carnatic, as wel
is those of his other neighbors. At the dispatch
■tig of Lord Cornwallis's letter, he was preparing
or an attack upon TippoO's capital; which was,
lowever* looked upon as a desperate undertak
ng, and likely to be attended with much difficiil
y and uncertainty of success, and the attempting
>1 which nothing could juftify but the very criti
:al situation of the English company's affairs ir
India.
European Intelligence—By a late arival at Nttu■
York.
VIENNA Oa. 5.
Baron Burler, envoy of th» duke of Werten
>erg, is preparing a house for the reception o;
>rince Potemkin, who is expe&ed here to meei
he emperor on his return the latter end of thi:
nonth.
According to accounts from Bucharest, th<
;rand vizier Hrongly inlifts with prince Repnin
hat excepting the cefiion of the territory betvveei
he Bog and the Dniester, all the remainder o
he pacification Ihould be regulated on the bafij
the peace of Kiarnadgi.
But the Rufiians, on the contrary, infilt or
he following points :
I. That the fortrefs of Choc Vim /hall be demo
ifhed.
11. That Bender and Aklerman fliall be left iii
heir present state, and that the POrce fliafl add
»o new fortiefles.
Hi. That as soon as the Porte fliall once have
ippointed a fubjeti for the principalicy of Mol
lavia, (he ihall not dtpofe him at her own wiJJ
md pleasure ; but that, when accused, he (haii
>e judged by the Divan, in the pretence of a
Ivtiittan confiil.
IV. That the Porte Ihall enlarge, in a gratui
tous manner, al) Ruffian prisoners.
V. That Rulliyi ihall not be obliged to furnifii
he Tufkifii fubje,sU with fait from the fait
rvorks at Kenbum, anlefs it be for ready money.
VI. That the Porte Ihall acknowledge Rufilia
:o have a right of protection over Georgia, Min
3rcSia, lineretre, and also ef all the free nations
of Mount Caucasus who voluntarily submitted tc
'he sceptre of Ruilia.
yll. That Riiffian (hips mounting 36 guns,
flu!! be permitted freely to pass through the cJ.
nal of Constantinople.
VIM. That Rulha (hall, have the liberty of
entertaining conluls in all Tu'rkifli ports, though
none had been there before the breaking out ot
the war.
IX". That the Ruffian merchantmen /hail be
allowed to deposit their $ooos in a private rtore
houfe, even in the Ottoman metropolis.
X. 1 hat rhe Ruffian productions fjiall pay,
in the Ottoman dominions, five per cent, onlv of
the duty of consumption, and uv-o Der cent', of
tranfih, which are to be paid once for all.
The grand vizier perceiving tbefe propofalj
were. Wrote in an imperious rtyte, is said to have
.•claimed, that they resembled the ten com
noandments of A lofts, and that he lhnuM oppose
[hem with ten others on the part of Mahomet.
This is fufficient to make us believe, that the
negotiations are likely to be protraifted.
.JotwithliaAdicg many think a paciisc arrange
•nent with France highly possible, it is certain
hat measures are adopted here which make the
:ontr ai y appear more probable. The chancery of
*at£ and war is bulily employed ; and it caimot
je iaid that the reuil£iion of the army appears to
>e the object of its labors, since it is admitted
hat this partial reduction will change the rnafs
if fcveral corps destined to remain fta\ionary, but
or the present wiH produce but little or no changA
n the total nials or the army. We besides learn
«ith surprize, that orders have been sent to the
Aurtrian recruiting officers c'ifperfed throughout
:he empire, not to be difficult with refpedt to
Ihape, and to eniift nVin beiow the standard
rhefe orders are never i.Tued but during a war
ar on tiie eve of taking up arms.
The dispatches arrived from Bucharest relate
principally to the differences between the Ruffians
ind Turks on the fubiedt of prince Michael Suz.
10. The Ruffians will not acknowledge this new
aofpodar, because, contrary to the tenor of the
irealy of Kainardji, he has been arbitrarily cho
en by the grand leignioi, without the Wallachi
in nation having been consulted. On this fub
efl, prince Poteinkin has caused foaje (Irons- re
nonftrances to be made to the grand vizier ° so
hat theWavwode, who, very well fatisfied'with
:he manner in which he had been treated by the
Au'ftrians, and particularly by general Mitrow.
ky, cxpeiied to make his public entry into Bu
:hareft on the nih September, has been obliged
o relinquiih it. This affair is spoken of as cer
ain and public curiosity is greatly excited to
the ilfue.
Baron Tienck is again at liberty ; but he has
ieen obliged to lign a new proaiife to live quietlv,
o behave loyally, and not to tiavel without al
igning a real'on, nor without having obtained per
n.flion for that pilrpofe.
PARIS. Oaober 19,
The Municipality of Paris has come to a refo
ution to teflify their giatitude to M. la Fa ye tt £
or the services rendered by him to the Capital and
he Empire at large :
lit. By linking a medal in honor of this
'rave Citizen Soldier, the emblems, &c. of
.vhich aie to be fiurniflied by the Academy of in
triptions.
idly. By presenting him with the ftatui of his
friend General Washington, executed by M.
; and
3dl_v By oideiing this Decree to be engraved on
-iic pcdeilal of the Buftof M, la Fayfttx, pre
ented two years lince by the states of America, to
the City of Paris.
LONDON, Oft. 25.
Extrafl of a letter from Paris, 0 c!. 14.
" M. la Fayette retires to his estate, in imita
ion ot General Walhington."
1 he States.General have ordered their ambafa>
lor to congratulate the French King on his accep
ance of the constitution.
i iie Count d' Arcois, and the other illustrious
rencll refugees, are amply provided for by certaiit
oreign powers : even from Paris, sums of money
ire said to be remitted to them.
Ja the new legislature of France the business is
o be tranfaaed, as In the last, by committees,
rhis was determined on Sunday last.
PRICE op STOCK.
Funded Debt.
Six per cents, per £. - - 22/7.
Three per cents, ... 13/3.
Deferred fix per cents, - 13/4.
Vnfunded Debt,
Final settlements, - - 20/6.
Interest due previous to 1788, )zjh.
Indents, - - - - 12/6.
Bank l'cripts, .... i36'doJlars.
Meteorological Obs£ rvatjons.
December 1791.
D. H. Bar. I Tkcr. Wind. Weather.
Monday, 12.729.85 35 calm Rain.
2 29. 635 n. Snow»
Tuesday, 13.7 29. 3 29 s. w. Cloudy.
2 29. 25 33 do. H.zuind
Wednesday, 14. 7 29. 47 28 s. w. fair.
229. 534 w. ditto.
Thurjday, 15.729. 6 27 s. w. Cloudy.
229. 6 38 do. Fair.
Friday, 16. 729. 6285. w. Cloudy.
2 29. 647 do. Fair.
Saturday, 17. 7:30. 1 34 s. w. Fair.
2130. 1 47 do. ditto.
Sunday, 9 37 s. w .Rainy.
2,29. 7 42 do. Fog.
M. GARDETTE, Dentijl^
Respectfully informs the public, that
he has removed from No* $8 to No. 127,
Chel'nut, near Fourth street, neatly eppofite-the
Bank of the United States. Dec. 19.Tin COUNTRY PRINTER.
[Defcripthn cf bis Village.]
BESIDE a stream that never yet ran dry,
There stands a Town, not high advancec
in fame;
Tho' few its buildings, rais'd to please the eye,
Still this proud title it may fairly claim ;
A Tavern (its firft requisite) is there,
A flj j a black^fmitb's foop, a bouse cf prayer*
Nay, more—a little market-house is seen
And iron hooks, where beef was never hung,
Nor pork, nor bacon, poultry fat or kan,
Pigs head, or sausage link, or bollock's tongue :
Look when you will, you iee the vacant bencil
No butcher teated there, no country wench.
Creat aims were his, who firft contriv'd this town
A market he would have—but, humbled now,
Sighing we fee its fabric mouldering down,
That only serves, at night to pen the cow :
And hence, by way of jelling, mat be said
That beef is there, tho 1 never beef that's dead.
A bread the inn—a tree before the door,
A Printing-Office lifts its humble head
Where mailer Type old journals doth explore
For news that is thro' all the village read ;
Who, year from year, (so cruel is his lot)
Js author, prefiman, devil—and what not ?
Fame fays he is an odd and curious wight,
F-nd to diftratfion of this native place
In sense not very dull nor very bright,
Yet fliows some marks of humour in his face
One who can pen an anecdote, complete,
Or plague the parson with the mackled flieet.
Three times a week, by nimble geldings drawn
A fiage arrives } but scarcely deigns to flop,
Ur.lefc the driver, far in liquor gone
Has made some business for the black-smith-shop
Then comes this printer's harvell-time of news,
Welcome alike from Chrirtians, Turks, or Jews
[7o be contiuued.~\
PARIS, oa. 5 .
The manner in which the folemnit)
■of taking the oath to the conftitutior
■was conduced in the assembly made i
very intercfting. It marked the cha
rafter of the aflembly, for, in the fhor
difcuflion on the forms to be observed
there was an enthusiasm, an unanimity
and a patriotism, which afiure to the
nation the fidelity of their new lepre
fentatives, and that there is no likcli
hood of an attack being made on am
one of the glorious principles which ar<
established in France.
This morning the assembly commen
ced by a report which was made by thi
'vice-president, of the result of the de
putation sent to the king. M. Ducafte
laid, that having taken the opinion o
the deputation of what he fliould fay t<
the king, they went up to the palace a
fix o'clock in the evening. They fav
the minister of justice, who told then
that his majesty had appointed the nex:
day at one o'clock to receive the depu
tation. The vice-president stated t(
the minister, that it was of the utmofl
importance to the public affairs of the
empire, that the notice with which the)
were charged should be made knowr
to his majesty without delay, and the)
could not, consistent with their duty tc
the legislative assembly, postpone theii
commillion. The minister of jufticc
represented this to his majesty, whe
was pleased to appoint nine o'clock o
the fame evening to receive the deputa
tion. Accordingly, at nine o'clock,
they went up again, and were received
by his majesty in the council chamber,
when M. Ducaftel made his reverence,
and delivered his commission in the fol
lowing terms
" Sire,
" The national legislative assembly is
finally constituted, and we are appoint
ed a deputation to intimate this to your
majesty."
The king desired to know the names
of the deputation. The vice-president
told him that he had not a lift of their
names, and that in truth he did not
know them all.
His majesty was then pleased to fay
he would come in person to the affem
blv on Friday next. He was sorry he
Could Hot poflibly go there sooner.
This'report being made, the assembly
proceeded to receive the oaths of some
members, who had arrived after the
fitting of the day before.
Friday, OSober7.
This day the king came to the assem
bly, and, with as much'cheerfulnefs as
ever, delivered
A SPEECH,
so well calculated to restore harmony,
liiat it made a most lively impreflion
on their hearts. The acclamations
were as loud and as frequent as before,
and the king was vilibly equally grati
fied by his reception. It was in every
point the fame as on the 30th of Sep
tember. The following are close tranf-
lations of the speeches of the king and
the prelident ;
THE KIN"G's SPEECH.
" Gentlemen,
" ASSEMBLED by virtue of the
constitution to exercise the powers
which it delegates to you, you will un
doubtedly consider as among your firfl
duties, to facilitate the operations oi
government ; to confirm public credit :
to add, if poflible, to the fccurity of en
gagements of the nation ; to (hew thai
liberty and peace are incompatible
and finally, to attach the people to thei)
new laws, by convincing them thai
those laws are for their good.
'"Your experience of the effc£ls o
the new order of things, in the fevera
departments from which you come
will enable you to judge of what ma)
be yet wanting to bring it to perfection
and make it easy for you to devise the
moll proper means of giving the necef
fary force and activity to the adminif
tration.
" For my own part, called by thf
constitution to examine, as firft repre
lentative of the people, and for theii
interest, the laws presented for mj
Tanftion, and charged with causing their
to be executed, it is also my duty tc
propose to you such objects, as I thinl
sught to be taken into confederation ii
;he course of your feflion.
" You will lee the propriety of fix
ing your immediate attention to the
[late of the finances, and you will fe<
:he importance of eftablilhing an equi
librium between the receipt and expen
diture, of accelerating the affeflmenl
and the colle&ion of taxes, of intrbdu
:ing an invariable order into all part:
if this vast administration, and thui
providing at once for the support ol
he Hate, and the relief of the people.
'■ Ihe civil laws will alio demanc
/our care, which you will have to ren
ler conformable to the principles of the
:onftitution. You will also have tc
amplify the mode of proceeding ir
:ourts of law, and render the attain
ment of justice more easy and mors
prompt.
" You will perceive the necessity o:
:ftablilhing a system of national educa
:iotl, and of giving a solid basis to pub
lic credit. You will encourage com
mcrce and industry, the ptogrefs oi
which has so great an influence on the
agriculture and the wealth of the king
dom ; and you will endeavor to make
permanent dispositions for affording
ivork and relief to the indigent.
" I lhall make known my firm deiirc
or the re-eftablilhment of order and
lifcipline in the army ; and I lhall ne
;le£l no means that may contribute tc
eftore confidence among all who com
iofe it, and to put it into a condition
0 secure the defence of the realm. II
he laws in this refpeft are inefficient.
. lhall make known to you the meafurcs
hat seem to me to be proper, and you
vill decide upon them.
■ <1 I shall in the fame manner commu
licate my lentiments refpefcling the na
ry, that important part of the public
orce, destined to protefl trade and the
'olonies.
" We lhall not, I hope, be troubled
vith any attack from abroad. I have
aken, from the moment that I accepted
he constitution, and I still continue tc
ake, the steps that appear to me the
noft proper to fix the'wpinion of for
-ign powers in our favor, and to main
ain with them the good intelligence
:nd harmony that ought to lecure tou<
he continuance of peace. I expcci
he bell effeils from them ; but this ex-
Deflation does not prevent me froir
lurfuing, with activity, those measure:
if precaution which prudencc ought tc
dittate.
{Land, applauses o/" Vive le Roi !]
" Gentlemen, in order that your fm
'ortant labors and your zeal may pro
duce the eftefts expe£led from them
it is necelTary that constant harmony
>nd unalterable confidence fliould reigr
between the legillative body and the
king [Renewed applaufa & acclamations
Ihe enemies of our rcpofe are but->tcc
lludious to disunite us ; the love of oui
country mull therefore rally us, and the
public interest render us infeparablt
[;warm applauses] Thus the public fore
will be exerted without oblWtion, the
administration will not be harraffed b-,
vain alarms, the property and the jeli
!j:on of every man will be equally pro
tected, and no pretext will be left foi
my perion to live at a distance from a
country where the law's are in vigor,
and men's rights rcfpefted.
" It is on this great basis of orde:
that the /lability of the confljtution.
the fucccfs of your labors, the fafety of
:he empire, the source of all kinds oi
3i ofperity mull depend. It is to this.
Gentlemen, that we all ought to turn
jur thoughts in this moment with the
Jtmoft poflible vigor ; and this is the
sbjeft that I recommend the most par
:icularly to your zeal and to your patri
3tifm."
'I he mojl lively tejlimonies of applause zi'cr<
riven to the king on this conduJion.'\
M. Prefiuent spoke as follows :
Sire,
" Your presence in the midst of u;
is a new engagement, which you take
owards the country. It is right thai
we should forget the confounded paw
:rs. A conflitution is established, and
■vith it the liberty of Frenchmen. You
jught to cherish it as a citizen—as kino
,'ou ought to maintain and defend it.—
Lnftead of violating, it ascertains youi
power—lt has given as yaur friend:
ill those who formerly called them
selves only your fubjeds [here a burji oj
ipplauje]—You have reason to be be
oved by Frenchmen—You said so, fire
ome days ago in this temple of the
.ountry, and we have also reason tc
ove you [theplaudits were repeated]—
Ihe constitution has made you the firfl
nonarch in the world. Your love foi
t places your majeily in the rank o:
he mod favored kings, and the welfare
>f the people will make you the m6fl
lappy. May our mutual union make
is speedily feel its happy influence—
Jurify legislation, re-confirm public ere
lit, overthrow anarchy. Such is oui
luty—fuch are our wishes—such are
'ours, fire. Such are our hopes, anc
he benedictions of Frenchmen will be
>ur reward."
The king went out in the fame man
ler that he entered, amidst the mofl
/ehement acclamations of Vive le Roi
md he was accompanied by the fame
ieputation.
On the motion of M. le Croix, the
peeches of the king and prcfident wen
ordered to be printed.
FRANCE.
Tie NatUnal LegiJUtivt sljtmh'y, OA. iz.
The office v( commandant pen. of the nationa
:uard at Paris being now abo!ifli t d, M. «e la Fay.
:tte sent his resignation to the Council General o
he community, in the following letter:
" Gentlemen,
" At the moment when the National Aflembh
us laid down its powers, at the moment when thl
untuons ot its members had ceased, I likewili
l^ ve r^ ac hed tne Period of those engagement
c Iformed, when placed by the consent of th.
■eople at the head of those citizens, who firft de
themselves to the conquelt and prefervatioi
• fre.dcm, I promised to the capita], who ga>,
he auspicious signal, to display aloft the facre!
of the Revolution, which public confi
Icnce had committed to me.
" Now, gentlemen, the constitution has beer
erminated by those who had a right to form it.
ind, after having been sworn to by all the citizens
>y a the lections of the empire, it has been le
; , ly adopted by the whole body of the people, an<
olemnly recognized by the firft Legislative Atfem
>ly ot thele Representatives ; as it had all;
>cen, with equal coolnef; of refle&ion and loyait\
>y tne hereditary representative, whom they
nirufted w-ith the execution of the laws. Thu:
he days of Revolution give place to those of a ,c.
■ular organization, to those of the freedom, of th.
■ lofperity, which it feeures : thus, whilit e.cr,
hmg concurs to the pacification of internal trou
iles, the menaces of the enemies of their countn
ught, at the appearance of public haopinefs, ti
ippear to themselves so much the more foolifn, as,
whatever combination may be formed against the
ights of the people, there is no free foul which
an entertain the bale lentiment of abandoning
tS i and liberty ar.d equality once eit a"
'lilhed in the two hemifphercs, will never becom<
etrograde in their progress.
T0... v o ou till this day, gentlemen, was thi
luty impoiec, both by the lentiments which ha»,
animated my whole life, and the just return o:
- J .>ic,i } our confidence demanded to reftort
mt.re.y, without rclerve, to my country ; all th<
lower and influence which it has conferred for iti
. = len«, during the convulsion : which agitated it
s tne step whicn I now owe to my known fenti.
nents a»d wh.cn completely fatisfies the only fpe-
ICS of aniuition which I f ec |. '
mvmrr'" th ! S d " l-,ra!ion » f my conduit, and 01
my motive?, 1 will m J;t e, gentlemen, some rcflec
t;°ns on ti.e new fituatijn i„ which we are pi cec
Jet U; : CRil ° rier ' which ha, noJconi
.„t 're"-v ' e "- v tfir 'lrofe surrounded with the
i c n of peace, when its enemies, provoking the
- »"a d 3 pfGple ' [ eni;ered -
.xpedled to.mation ot the nationa! guards : their
Ipontaneous organisation, their universal a
l i "Vic force, which re
i h'tt, u r° Per /f ;nati ° n '
re.eat—" In A •' "° W ftel a P'«fure to
dom it is inl 3 "' it!on ma y obtai " *<+
°y Bu t /i, r C ary th f' if 0,0014 -ft fbe
" I wifli gentlemen, he 2 to recar!, How, amldf?
<i many hostile plots, an oitious intrigues, licen~
tious commotions, you have opposed to every per
i'eile combination an unihaken firmnefsj to the
rage of the party, to feduftion of every forf, the
3ure love of your country ; how, in fine, amidst"
he disturbances of twenty-seven months of revo
ution, you have established the danger only in'or
-ler to increase your vigilance and that importance,,
lo far as they might regard or promote freedom.
Without doubt we have had too many disorders to
ament 5 and you know how afßi&ing and deep
jn impredion they have always made upon me j
without doubt we have ourselves errors to correct j
t>ut who is he, who, in recalling not only the
-i and epochs of the revolution, when the public
n cere ft is so much indebted to you, but like wife
:he incessant vigilance, the unbounded facrifice of
portion of the citizens for the Tberty, thefafe
>> the property, the repose of all, in reflecting ef
>ecially on that provisional state, which ceases on
y with respeCt to you, and in which confidence
'Ught ever lo bend to law : who is he, I fay, even
impng those who provoked you, and whom you
lote&ed, who can prefuine to blame the homage
vbich is now due to you from a sincere friend, a
uft and grateful general ?
" Eeware, however, of thinking, gentlemen,
nat every species of aefpotifm is destroyed j and
hat liberty, because it is now constituted and che
»lhed among us, h already fufficiently eftabliflied:
t will never be so, if from one end of the empire
o the other any thing be permitted which the
aw prohibits 5 if the free conveyance of persons,
)f provisions, or of money experienced any inter
•upiion j if those who are amenable to justice be
)rote&ed contrary to law $ if the people, negati
ng their most precious dut), and their most Jacred
iebt, be not eager to concur in ele&ions, and ex
*Ct in the payment of public contributions ; if
irbitrary oppofitior, the fruit of disorder or of uif
ruff, obftruG the legal exercise of lawful authori
ty : if political opinions, or personal sentiments ;
f, particularly, the sacred u*e of the liberty of
■he people ever be employed as a pretext for vio
lence ; if intolerance of religious opinion, cover
ing itfelf under the garb of i know not what patrt
otifm, presumed to admit the idea of a domineer
ing belief, or of a belief proscribed ; if the house
of every citizen ceased to become for him an asy
lum more invioiable than the molt impregnable
fortrefs; if, in fine, all Frenchmen no longer re
garded themselves as guarantees for the support of
the civil liberty as well as their political liberty,
and for the religious execution of law j and if the
voice of the Magistrate, who spoke in his own
name, had not a force always superior to that of
millions of armed men.
" May a'l the diflinilions, all the blefiings of
liberty, by consolidating more and more the hap
piness ofr our country, suitably rccompenfe the
seal of all the National guards of the empire arm
ed in the fame cause, unitedltn the fame senti
ments ; and may I here be allowed to express to
them a gratitude, an attachment without bounds,
as were those testimonies of their confidence and
fnendfhip which I enjoyed during the revolution !
" Gentlemen, in ceasing to command you, a:
this painful instant of our separation, my heart,
penetrated with the most profound sensibility, feels
more than ever the immense obligations by which
I am attached to you. Receive the wiflies of your
most tender friend for the common prosperity, for
the individual happiness ot every one of you : and
may his remembrance always present to your
minds, and particularly mingle itfelf with that
oath, which unites us all, to live free, or to
die. (Signed)
" La FAYETTE."
CHARLES BITTERS, '
No. 120,
South Market, near Fourth Street,
Has received from New-York, and manufactured
BY LOT MERXEIj
A large and General AiTortment of
Muffs Tippets, Trimmings Ess
Edgings,
Great Coats, Caps, Mitts & gloves lined with Fur
which h; will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lowcft Prices,
o<2. 4.
JUST PUBLISHED,
and for lale by
THOMAS LANG,
No. 21, Church alley ;
An ElTay on
COMMERCE and LUXURY.
from the London edition ifQ,
The merit of this work will be acknow
ledged by every judicious reader. The re-publi
catmn of it in this country, at this time, has been
by several enlightened patriots. These
wifli to promote our national commerce, on the ba
ds of agriculture and industry, ard f:ee from the
base alloy of imposition and gaming. They set a
proper value on the conveniences and ornaments
of civilized life ; but detelt that luxury which is
the offspring of a fiivolous taste, and the mother
of profligacy, diflionefty, poverty, of number
's private and public vices and misfortunes.
Nov - bt.e.t.
This Day are publijked,
SERMONS,
Historical and Charaaeriftical:
By WILLIAM LJN N, D. D.
Jne of the Minijlers of the Reformed Protejlant
Dutch Church, in the city of New-York.
sold by T. DOBSON & R. CAMPBELL.
[Price Three Quarters of a Dollar.']
PRINTED BY
c H I L D S AND S \V A I N E,
AT THEIR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIG H-S TRE IT»
HEAR SIXTH-STRIETj
rHItADZLfHIA.