Voi. I.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
A Political enquiry into the bcjl weans oj
improving the Commerce oj the
American States.
[Continuedfrom our lajl.j
[In this part oj his addrjs, the author proves jrov,
the experience oj kijlory, that government cvght, lr
every proper means, to exert its endeavors to pro
cure Jrom Europe and <ljc where, perjbns jkilkd ii
the ujejul arts, in order to manujatlwe the rau
materials produced, or capable oj'being produced,
in this country. ]
IN order to prevent the fruits of oui
agricultural and commercial indus
try from centering wholly in the hands
of ft rangers, it is abfoluteTy necessary
for the United States to preserVe a uni
ty of interests among themfclves ; the
firft object of which union of inter
ests should be, the putting it out bf the
power of any body of men, an individu
al, or a foreigner, to thwart Tucii mea
sures as should be taken to promote the
national commercial advantages in view:
and to plate things on such a footing,
that the plans and machinations of fo
reigners Jhould rather be made to co
operate in the success of those beneficial
defigns.—ln a word, every step taken
by government ought to be ditlated bv
the idea of the national interest at large,
*»hich ought to be considered as the
central point of all their operations.
This principle being established, I
would go on to observe, that the greal
aim of every wife adminiftratien ought
to be to protest, and give a dire&ion tc
national mduftry in its infancy ; ana
even to make considerable facfifices, il
necelfary, to ensure success to all thai
class of people engaged in the produ&ion
of raw raau:ri*U, arid the proi'ecation ti
those arts, which are considered among
the ujejul in every country.—To delay
time in proving so evident a principle
as the preceding, would be absurd ; be
eaufe there is no example in history, oJ
its having ever been controverted.
This leading idea in our mercantih
system, naturally ipduces an enquiry
into the moll proper means of encou
raging the cultivation of those arti
cles which afford the means of manu
factures and arts, and are the common
cause of their rlouriihing in any part ol
the world.
Manufactures are, in themselves, oi
little confequente without the aid of the
arts ; deprived of which they are nevei
known to succeed to any considerable
degree. For the encouragement o
them, all wife governments have evei
found it their interest toeftablifh school.
for drawing, engraving, painting anc
c.icmiftry, that by the alliftance ot theft
their arlifts might be enabled to ad
vance their fabrics to the utmost de
gree of perfection. These arts only, i
well followed, are of inestimable valut
to the nations that encourage them, b 5
exempting them from a tribute, which
(previous to their making them thei:
own)theypaid to their neighbours, ir
the purchafeof their merchandize.
From this Ipirit of enquiry and irr
itation, it has happened, that i'evera
European nations can at this day manu
fatturepaintedorprintedmuflins,lawns
ea'lhros*. and even paper hangings
: Mty and finenefs to thole tha:
dia; and have therefore
selves from a species o
formerly paid to In
""ISAry.
have ever re
' he.ir national
sis of theii
National
: s pur-
T reat
•t\*
' U R SPA Y y November 24, 1791
attempting to discover the means bv
W , Icn le intelligent legislators
ana patriots of former times were ena
bled to do such immense lervicesto their
country m promoting their fabrics and
inventions, did not history step m to
our afiiftance.— To history, then, anci
ent, and modern, let ty recur for inform
ation ; there we {hail fee detailed at
full length the various particulars, a
knowledge of which is necelfa-ry for pro
moting the public weah
In all the wife governments of anti
quity we may constantly observe an ar
dent desire and emulation to encourage
the growth of the liberal arts.
Uiemiftry, encouraged by the bounties
0 f P v ereigns, set men upon exploring
the bowels of the earth and bringing to
light the secrets of the mineral world.
1( was this encouragement alfb that de
'/eloped the nature of plants and •vege
ables and blended their various colours
n such a manner as to contribute to
he pleasures and luxuries of life. The
rompofition called glass, the artificial
Known by the na ne of porcelain,
ind that beautiful gloss called varnish,
ill owe their origin to the encourage
ment which enlightened miniffers have
ifforded to men of oblervation and re-
Itttion. he nature of indigo, faffron,
ind a multiplicity of other precious
plants, hasbeen inveflighted for the pur
poses oi beauty and variety in colou v s,
ind the culture of them has been n
:ouraged in every country, where chc
:limate has fuffered them to prow.
All the arts and sciences keep an edual
3ace with each other ; arid afford a reci
arocal aid. In the department of legif
ation we seen Lycurgus an J Solon,
two of the ftioit celebrated lawg'yersof
iealcuily travelling the whole
A'Orld over, with a view to make new
iifcovgries in science, improve theirown
lnderftandings, and diffufe the know
ledge they had acquired when they re
turned to their own countries, in eit.i
jlilhing the arts, and rendering their
fellow-citizens independent in the pof
effion of them.—We find talents and
ibilities every where encouraged by the
riends of mankind, and directed to pro
per pursuits. In modern history, with
what an ardor do we fee human indiiftry
waited to the highest pitch ; and how
-apid has been the progreffio'n of know
cage in all enlightened governments !
Peter the Great in Ruflia, Ferdinand in
Pruflia, Lewis the Great in I'ranee, a
niiltitude of German potentates, and,
:o mention no more, all rhe patriotic and
wife Kings of Great-Britain, have ever
:!'-clared themselves the friends and pa
trons of arts and sciences ; and hence it
is, that at this day we fee their respec
tive governments the molt flourishing
and happy in Europe.
Not a few of the(e illuflrious person
ages travelled Europe over to acquire
the requisite knowledge for the establish
ment of every species of manufadture,
and to induce, by their munificence, fo
reign artists and manufacturers to fettle
in their territories, and engage in then
various fabrics. Thus it was that Pe
ter, czar of Ruflia, brought his murine tc
perfe&ion—and Jofcph the fecund, a
great number of manufa&ures before
unknown in his dominions. Henry the
fourth of France entertained precifefy
the fame views: he did not indeed gc
abroad for this purpose in person, but he
employed l'everal of his fubje&s in tra
velling for the fame benevolent en-'. In
his reign, the art of tanning luuiicr was
learcely known in France—but this ex
cellent monarch did noi think it beiow
his rov.il dignity to lead one of his raon
ablt 'anners into Hungary, to difrovei
the fee ret of their method of tanning
The corfequence was, that in a v.ri
short fp»c .* of time France w'*.oi!v
emoted hei- If from a t• ihutc which iLc
had before annually paid to for*ei-n in
'jfti v, by having been under i!.e ni
tty erf purchafir v, Hungarian ioaliif.r.
By PHILIP FRENEAU.
And thus it has been, that by fove
eigns incurring fomc little expence in
he way of experiments of the above
tFtte- greateit national advantage:
have been found to result. Both Sull)
mdjMontefquieu, during their refpec
tivc administrations, were mvariabh
Dt nt upon using every pofii'ble means t:
make France the feat of the arts. Tht
grea# Colbert followed exactly in th.ei
Heps by eftablHhing certain regulations
which, at the fame time, perfected th<
art of dying, and brought into difreput<
tho - dyes of inferior quality whicl
fraud and ignorance had introduced
I'. 'iad the discernment to know, tha
:h? firft requiiite in every manufaftur
s the goodness of the work, and thai
without a principle of fair dealing anc
>uefty, every species of commerce de
;endent upon the manuta&ures of ;
must fali so the ground.—But
iOt Contented with advancing thus far
ie encouraged manufactures in ge
neral by bellowing premiums propor
ionedto the merits of themanufatlu*ers
Lf we attend to hiflorical information
ve fliall like wife fee that the fame poli
cy was observed by the Empress Man:
I herefa, of Aullria, whole liberalit)
vas luch, as even to bellow large for
unes upon thousands of artists whe
ver? willing to come and set up then
nanufadlories in Germany.
A similar mode of proceeding has in
imes pall proved the ial vation of France.
Ihe time has been when (he purchased
rom her neighbours to the amount ol
nore than fifty millions * yearly, onl\
n the two articles of broadcloths anc
ilk.-i-But no sooner did the French ap
;ly ritpmfelves to the planting of whiu
nulbexry. trees, feeding silk-worms, anci
TTcfci-ving their w'ool, than they lisanu
aftured to the amount of the fame Turn
■verand above their home consumption,
\ similar change took placein the article
'f l»ce, in their trade with the countries
>f Flanders and Brabant.
t rom these {ketches of information, ii
s ealy. to fee, that a nation can, whene
ver it pleases, free itfeif from the tribute
.vhich it may have been accustomed tc
jay to thefuperior induilry of its neigh
)ours—By encouraging and prote&ing
ileful e£lai?iifhments they may do still
nore, and even advance lo far as to turn
he balance of trade in their favour.
In the whole history of commerce,
lothing is more worthy of admit ui
>n than its progress in Ireland. After 2
edious fuccellion of civil wars, that
:ountry, ravaged, and op
jrefftd, was left a mere delart, the peo
ple difcouvaged and their refouice:
uined. In this situation of things, ;hc
Farl of Eflfex, then Governor of Ireland
oon saw the necellity of re-animating
he drooping fpints of the inhabitants
;nd directing such of them as had ef
t aped from wounds and (laughter, to tht
pursuits of induilry. Lord Eifex, noi
wholly relying upon his own judgmem
111 lo momentous an affair as a genera
reforrqation of the Irish government
confuted the famous Sir William Tern
pie, a very able politician, who Iketchec
out a' plan, which has been attendee
with unexampled fuccel's.—lt would b(
tedious at present to detail the whole o
Sir William's plan atfulliength; fuffici
ent be it to oblerve, that he recommend
ed a ccnfccntious integrity as the baiis up
which the ftru&ure of foreign cor,;
tnerce ought to be built, and withoui
v/hic-.), it cannot poliibly hope ,0 a;; rati
confidence. he, r.cxt. adv : fed Loic
EllpX to encourage the breeding 0! catt'ic
and sheep, and to be particularly atten
tive to the railing of the raw materials
in general suited to the country, whirl'
he regarded as the foul of commerce
. r . tor which there would alwavs be i
maud; as well as for their linens, a
fixed and regular markets. In order tc
e*ft.t« enrdauon. he proposed honour:
and v-orilidcrabte premiums tothofe wh<
* i>7tj J > 000 £- PennfyUmnucurrency.
should bring to market, against a fpecifi
, l ; me , one or two pieces of linen, or
doth of the firft quality. This eave
ilie to the Irish manufactures—lntercc
is the gr id motivfcof action in nun,"and
the multitude are eve/ most open to its
imprelfions..— it was, further, the ad
vice of Sir William, to have an inflec
tion for every fort of merchandize dei
tined to go abroad, in order to prevent
fraudulent prattices, which never fail
to injure the cOmmcrcial credit of a na
tion.
By following such advice Ireland Toon
re-eltablifhed her commerce. Such is
the influence of genius and ability uoon
the prolperityof dates !
But, on the other hand, it may be
asked, whether similar plans v/ould ba
practicable in an infant country, separ
ated by an immense ocean fromEurorie
deftitute of suitable funds, and labour
ing under every discouragement that
European jealouly and European policy
can throw in its way?
To this it may be angered, that the
eitablifhment of a lottery in every state
would in a little time produce a fund
fully adequate to the great object in
view. There is every reason to believe,
ihat, lit a country as famous for its pa
triotic chata&er as America, eve,-- citi
zen, being convinced of the utility of
such an inflitution, would willingly
rilque a trifle of money and thereby
contribute to the welfare of the commu
nity by promoting a lottery which should
have for its object, limply, industry and
exteniion of commerce.
But supposing thcfe funds already
provided, and 11.11 no njaTmta&uies in
the country ; would it not be so much
gfclels money?—l answer, by no meads;
or there might be a thonfand ways m-
Itantly found out to employ it for the
>ooa of the public. Why not, in i.iis cafe,
to tow the example of Henry the fourth
tv 10 lent throughout Europe in search
r , 0 workmen, to inftruft his
3wn fubjefts in France ?—Why might
lot the profits of these funds be employ
id in defraying the expences of persons
ent on similar errands ? Money thus
employed, infteadof being thrown away
.eedlefsly, would soon gratify us with
i full djfeovery of all those secrets of art
which are so carefully retained in fo
reign countries. Or the money might
De well app,:ed in paying the paffagc9
}f a certain number r>f tradesmen from
K. la rope, whom the hope of reward, and
* more eligible fit uat ion in America
«nn. above al!, the enjoy; icnt of liberty'
ivould induce to come ainoncft as 1
It was precisely by such Hep's that
formerly procured manufactur
es rrora Italy, where the various fill*
fabrics nad previously been carried to
the utmofl degree of perfection.
But it would be wafting time to go
iOout proving that steps of thls kir , d
would belt promote our national Pros
perity m the United States. By en ecu--
a ? d Inductr V, there
would be she highest probability of our
turning, m a short time, the balance of
trade in our favor ; as is now the cafe with
thole nations who have followed the
propoled plan.
There is a remarkable inlUnce in the
hl< ™,7 of ,. the re, S n of the Emprels Ma
ria i herefa, of the national advantages
accruing from the patronage of sove
reigns, m reg-.rd to arts and manufac
tUrnS" J hlS , W ' Jc Pr * ncel * knew very
we.l, that the character of a iov -i< 1
being once well established 5> encour*
Wing genius and induftiy, would soon
craw plenty of people of ulcnts ih-.r the
k»ngdom, who might O 1 " ufrfully em
ployeci:—A stranger made, his a'pear,
ance one day at Tournay, a town'under
the Efuprels's dominion Flanders,
and offered his Cervices to {he govern
ing powers of the place, accompanied
with certificates of his skill and cani
ty. in the manufacture Cf china' «uid
L*clti ware ; articics in Wiuui that part
Numb. 8.of Flaiideri. I:utl. tycvei Iteeri able to fuc-
Ti.~ llri.iger was favorably re
ceived, iupplied wifli a fitm oat of the
tresfurv to begin his work ; and
jrom this acciclsntul- circumstance has
proceeded one Vf the most conliderable
manufactories in Europe, and which at
ireferit, in the town «f Tournay alone,
iuppoUs u awards of two hundred' fami
. !i€s. " * 1 J
The diftillauon of the juniper-berry,
) an article in which the lov/
countries tnd Holland have so great a
trade, owes its origin and success to a
circuliiit.ar.ce of nearly the fame nature,
and from the fame kind of ddcernrnent
in the sovereigns of thole countries.
The United States produce a iurplus
of rye more than Sufficient for the con
sumption of America in this liquor ; and
might ever, supply all the islands in the
Weft-Indies therewith—What inex
hauftibie resources, then, does America
poifeis, which .hough yet in embrio, a
wile government will not fail to draw
forth for the'putpofes of national pros
perity, whenever it determines to tread
in the steps of the iagaeious legislators
of other countries, that have gone be
torc us. [Tj be continued.]
PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES;
Mokoay, November 21.
A petition of Jason Wate, was read,
praying the commutation of half pay,
as a -major in the army of the United
States, during the late war.—Preferred
to the Secretary at War.
Mr. Wadswokth from the commit
tee appointed, laid a hill before the
Houle, more effectually to provide for
the national defence, by efta'olifhmg an
uniform militia throughout the United
states. —Read twice, and committed to a
committee of the whole House on Mon
day next;
The House then proceeded to cOnsi
der the report ps the committee to whom
was referred the petition of James Jack
ion, relative to an undue ele&ion and
r.turn of Anthony Wayne, one of the
members from the state of Georgia—
Committed to a committee of the whole
iloufe on Thursday.
On motion of Jvlr. Murray, the re
port of the committee of elections was
called up, to whom was referred the let
ter from the executive of the state oi
Maryland, with the resignation of Wil
liam Pinkney, and a certificate of the
ele£l:on of John F. Mercer, in his room.
It was obierved on this occasion, that
two questions occurred, Whether a per
icn appointed to represent his state in
fongiefs, has the power of resignation :
the other, whether that appointment can
be resigned to the executive of a state
go', eminent, and whether the executive
\,e aphorized to accept the resignation.
llfue a writ for a new ele£tion P
After some further debate on this fub
je£t, it was ordered that the said report
be committed to a committee of the
whole Houle to-morrow.
A motion was mads and seconded that
the petition of James Weeks, read on
Friday iaft, ' praying compeniation for a
yellel, his property, funk in the Dela
ware, in the time of the late war, by or
der of the committee of fafety) be refer
red for confideration—lt paifed in the
negative, and
Resolved, That the petition be re
jected.
Petitions were read from John Hig
by,and John E.Moore, refpeftively pray
ing the renewal of certain loan-office
certificates, the property of the petition
ers, which have been loft or deftroved—
Referred to the Secretary of the Trea
fury.
A committee was ordered to be ap
pointed to prepare and bring in a bill foi
cxtt- 'ing the time limited for the fet
llemen.. he accounts of the Unitec
ttau-s. wit te individual states—the
committe ip_ linted, Mr. Dayton, Mr
Griffir :id r. Hartley.
-loaf' ccording to the order oi
1... iv, re/' ed itlelf into a committee
of thv; whol .ioufe, on the bill appor
tior ;ng the -prefentatian of the people
of the Uni U States, according to the
£rlt enumi —Mr. Muhlenberg in
the chair.
Several notions were made for adopt
ing the ratioi of one representative tc
;h\ ty-four and thirty-five thcufand in
hibiUnls—which were rejcct'ia.
ral amendments were propo'.'id and de
sated , after which the S;:><-.t.kcr return
id the chair, <-nci Mr. Muni-nb.-rg re
ported progrcis ixi the bill, and diked
cave to fit again,
Tb£ House then resolved to take th-:
sill into consideration again to-morrow.
Adjourned,
Tuesday, November 22.
The petitions of David Morris and
Jacob Levan, were read, praying coin
jenfation for supplies furnifksd or fer
nccu rendered lu the army, durin*yti:(j
A'ar.
Also, a petition of Alpheus Moore, in
jehalf of nimfelf and WiHhm Moore,
>rphan of the late major Wi Hard Moore;
md Mark Lincoln and Elizabeth his
vise, late widow of the said Willard
Vloore, praying that the half pay of the
:ommillion polfelTed by the dcceufed,
vho was slain in the service of the Unx
ed States, may be extended to them.—
iioth these petitions were referred to the
secretary at War.
The petitions of John M'Gowan, and
Reuben Murray, were read* refpectfvely
>raying to be reimburled tor lundry ex
>enditures in the service of the United
states, during the war.
Also, the petitions of Daniel Scher
nerhorn and John Clang, refpeftively
jrayirig the renewal of certain loan
jffice or final fettiement certificates, the
jroperty ol- the petitioners, accidentally
leftftryed.—ThePe several petitions re
efred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
A petition of Henry Wagner, was
ead, praying relief, in consideration ol
l wound received in the tervice of the
Jnited States during the war—Older
id to lie on the table.
A memorial of the committee of the
counties of Washington, Westmorland
'ayette, and Alleghany, in the state o
'ennfylvania, was read, Hating their oh
eftions to an ast pafled at the last fefSon
rnpoling a ( duty on spirits distilled with
n the United States, and praying a re
>eal.—Referred to the Secretary of the.
Treasury.
Mr. Laurance from the committee.
>resented a bill making appropriation:
or the support of government for the
rear 1792— read a firft and second lime
ind Committed to a committee of the
whole House to be taken into coniidera
ion on Wednefduy the 30th inftan't.
A remonstrance of the people callec
Quakers, in the state of North-Caroli
1a was read, stating their objections tc
:ertain parts of the militia bill, now de
sending—Referred to the committee
)f the whole House on the militia bill.
A petition of William W. Smith
":.s administrator of Gilbert Tennent
ind of Joseph Eaker, were read pfayin;
:ompenfation for services rendered as
urgeons in the general Hofpitalof the
Jnited States, during the war.
Ordered to lie on the table.
The Speaker then laid before the
louse a letter from the Secretary ol
hate, accompanying his report on the
)etition of Jacob Ifaacks—
Read, and ordered to lie on the table.
According to the order of the day,
he House then resolved itfelf into a
ommittee of the whole HouTe on the
eport of the Committee of elections, tc
vhom was referred the letter from the
xecutive of the state of Maryland, con
ainingthe reiignation of William Pink
ley, and also a certificate of the election
>f*John F. Mercer, in Mr. Pinkney's
00m.
On this fubjeft Mr. Seney took
>ccafion to observe, that he did not re
:o!left any instance, except the present.
)f objections being started to the fupply
ng of vacancics occafipned by relLn'i
ion—neither could he fee why there
hould be any difficulty in admitting
Vlr. Mercer, without further" delay O'r
lebate—and could not but hope that
he executive oPMarylind wera fuffici
mtlv inftrufted in the Conltitution of
he United States, to have taken proper
leps on this occafcon. Mr. Mercer had
>een duly elec'i :<4—-the committee had
eportcd him so, and he expressed his
vilhes that the report might be adopted.
Mr. Giles was of opinion, that the
efignation of any member did not cre
ite a vacancy in the Representative
>ranch of the government. So far from
t, that he thought, in this cafe, a refig
;ation could only be made to the powei
hat had conferred the appointment
hat it was the duty of the executive
.ouncil of the state, not to declare a va
cancy, but limply to ifTue writs to sup
oly luch vacancy, when declared. He
rnought the Houfc alone lud the nghi
to determine on the and h
was transferred .to tiie execu
tive, the whole power relpe£Lng the
judging of vacancies, was
wuit it. He conlidcred the report oi
' e committee as improper, hoped it
'./Quid be rejected, and wilhed to fee the
principle eitabliihed by the Houle.
Scleral other gentlemen having spo
ken on this fubjeft, it was resolved thai
the lio'ule will again to-morrow resolve
itielf into a committee of the whole
ffoufe, on the said report.
The House according to the order oi
he day, again resolved ltfclt into a com
nittee of the whole House, on the bil
ipportioning the representation of the
People of the United States, according
0 the fir ft enumeration.
After some debate the Speaker re
Limed the chair, report being previous
y made, that the committee had conli
iered and made amendments to the bill—
The ccmfideration of which amendment!
/vas postponed till to-morrow.
Adjourned.
A R A T U S.
NUMBER 11.
THE present mud be considered an impor
taut crisis in the affairs of mankind, anc
be friends, of republican government (houlc
.vatch over it with the utmott anxiety and care
The Itorm 13 up which will either dissipate th<
:louds, that have long darkened the politica
horizon, or envelope it with the thick shades o
night forever, and although some circumllance:
lave taken place that tend to brighten and de
:orate the profpetf, yet the ultimate event i:
mcertain. While fuc'n danger impends o'er hi
ountry, the-patriot of every clime Ihould marl
is vibrations and pursue its ccurle, until it hat
:xpended its noxious influence, or finally taket
1 tavorable direction.
The revolution in America and France has,"i
s ti ue, opened to them a more lplendid prolpet
;han ever dawned upon their ardent hopes a
any former acra. The subversion of the tyran
ny, and eflablilhment of free governments ii
both countries; by the authority and under thi
direction of the people, are events that particu
larly figpalize the ptefent day. But great am
wondeiful as this revolution has been, it fliouli
not inlpire them with a millaken confidence
Neither the pall nc*r the present condition of fa
ciety will authorize an internhflion of their ef
:orts. If they raft their eyes on the map of thi
iob:. and trace the hillory of thofc regions i.
ts different quarters, that have acknowledged ai
obedience to civil authority, upon the record o
the rnoll faithful annalills, from the time o
Herodotus and Thucydides to the present day
:!iey will find, that by far its greater portion
hath been always yielded as a theatre, whereoi
■he raoft rigorous and intolerant despotism hat!
d.lplayed its wanton cruelties. Even the fat;
A those few circles, that have been occafionalh
gathered under the banner of a free government
nas been calculated rather to encreafe than mi
igate the gloom. Altho' they contain in thei
catterea story, whatever is interelling of th;
ormer tranfattions of men, and furnilh the onl\
irilliant epochs in human affairs; yet their fleet
ng and tranlitoiy passage, and the internal con
/ulfions which tore them in fundtr whilst they
aded, have tended in some meafuie to tarnili
:heir fame and difcouragc future efforts. Thcii
ortune has left a melancholy imprefiion on the
minds of many, and which has hitherto fhieldec
ielpotifm with a wall of impregnable strength
hat their administration could neither be fate
i-irabie, nor harmonious. This dark cloud c.
:rror which has so long environed the eaith, mull
x dispelled, or the light of truth and reafonwil:
be extinguished forever.
Monarchy has always had, and always wil'
nave charms, extremely fafcinating to a grea
part of mankind. Beside those who wear the
Jiadem, or that numerous train who enjoy it:
;avour, there is filll a more numerous one, wh<
are ted by hope, and piomife themselves foone
or later a fmiie from the throne. Even del'
potiiin has leldom raged to an height, fufficien
to lorm patriots in the court. They aregener
illy the growth of another foil. But where tht
Umininration has assumed a moie inoderati
:one, and mingled in its course to the iowerclaf
ies of tociety, a portion of fafety, for it mud no
be dignified with the name of freedom, it ha:
ieldom been lhaken. The pomp, the pride, ant
external fbtw of grandeur, which attach them
lelves to this kind of government, and arc thi
iuie indication of those weak passions whichari
llways reltrained, whilst the owners ac knowledge
idependenceon the general eUimation of
and as certainly break forth when they confide
:hem(elves elevated it t both captivate an
iwe many. It is a truth which cannot be con
troverted, for it is supported by indelible charac
ters written on the hearts of men, and daily ej
amplified by their conduct, that in a (ound devc
lopement of the various causes which contubut
to the iupport ot those governments, that ar
founded on the ruin of the public liberty, th
inert mechanic force which nerves the arm o
ihe Prince, rauft not be considered as that whicl
is solely influential. In the attempt, therefore
to maintain the ground already acquired, -ox nr
generally to subvert the reigning tyrannies, and
establish free government in their stead, the fo»-
micteble array oi armies is not the only danger 10
3e encountered: t!ie deep-rooted interests of
many, and inveterate prejudices of others, mud
>e at.acked and vanquished, before they can hope
for success.
It must be attributed to the propitious direction
>f Providence, that the comparative merits of the
different kinds of government have been submitted
:o the consideration of mankind in aii enlightened
ige. Many of those prejudices which had long
;yrannizedover the faculties of the human mind,
when diverted of their falfe garb, and exposed,
jy the pen of the philosopher, to the sober life of
Lhe reflecting, have already fled before the manly
force of reason, like the morning mifl at the pre-
Fence of the radiant fun. 'Tis to be hoped, there
fore, that, in a question of such high importance
:o their lasting welfare, the mere force of preju
dice will not be able long to blind their under
[landing or pervert their judgment.
By the revolution in America and France, and
particularly the former, a fair experiment will be
made : the problem which hath been heretofore
so much dil'cuffed, and refpeiting which l'o great
£ contrariety of sentiment hath prevailed, whe
ther mankind are capable of felf government, or
whether a body must be organized withoat, ele
vated above, irrefpon6ble to, and holcTing a per
petual scourge over them for that p.;pofe, will
receive a fair and fatisfa<£tcry solution. nto their
hands that great mass of power, which, by long
Lifurpation had been confid-. j red thv bjrt£-n>ht and
property of kings, has been I y them is
has been modified, distributed, aiui put in mo*
:ion ; and to the permanent interests, the wifdoni
ind the virtue Cf society, will the lblemn Appeal
:>e made.
Those who have been called to make thisexpe
itnent occupy an interesting theatre. Its.fate 1 will
teach an important lelfon, which wiH be felt for
iges to come and upon it the eyes of all nations
ire fixed with anxious solicitude for the event.
If by the ftabi'.y of their condud, they fliall be
ible to sustain the character and dignity of u the
government of the people," and demon Urate to the
world, that whilst it discards the evil incident to
others, it hath retained all their most ufeful pro
perties, they will have gained a boon which has
been contended for hitherto in vain. They will
■xhibit toother nations an example worthy imi
tation. But those circumstances which promise
[uccefs, make it of the last importance that they
[hould succeed ; for if the prize fHouid be now
wrested from them, the effort will never be made
again. The cause of liberty will be abandoned,
and man' ind, in future, themselves in
under the dominion of a tyrant, and endea
vor, by a blind obedience to his mandates, to mo
derate the rigor of oppression.
To the people of merica, the claim of the pre
sent age and posterity must operate with peculiar
lorce; with them the effort commenced whidj
promises to be produ&ive of such important be
nefits to society. At their Ihrine, the etherial
sre was caught, wliich has already diffufed its
light into the remotest regions. Authors of a
rc v olut;en, and which like a
firft cause upon the proudeil and most enlightened
nations of the earth, they owe it to Hi >1 who
jave them comfort in the day of their distress—
:hey owe it to themselves and to the cause of hu
nanity, to cherish the principle upon which they
ivfted,—And deservedly degraded would they be
n the common estimation of the world, if, after
laving roused their fellow men in other countries,
:o this noble exertion, whilst the confiidi way at
:he height, and the profpeqtof a brilliant atchiev
nent within their leach, they should, by a neglect
>f their duty, or an abandonment of their princi
ples, be the fisft to yield the ground which had
>een with such difficulty acquired.
ARATUS.
PARIS, September 12.
Affairs of the Cclonics. '
The fitting of the National Assembly of the sth
n the evening, was one of the most tumultuous of
he present session.—The affairs of the colonies,
,itd the decree of the 15th of May: lit favour of
he people of colour, (Mulattoes) gave rife to the
umult. The two opposite parties were more vio
ent than ever. The debate was opened by the
eading of an address of the city of Brest, very dif
erent from that by which the citizens of Nantz
lefired the repeal of the decree in question, by a
ormal prediction of the total loss of the colonies,
f the Affemblv should not determine to take that
fcep. That petition read at the fitting of the sth
>f Auguft,was referred to the colonial committee.
That of Brcft on the contrary, demands the exe
rtion of the decree of the 15th, of May, and vio
ently charges the committee. Meflieqrs Alexan
ler Lameth and Barnave have answered thefs
harges with great force, and have not concealed
hat the AiTembly would be at last compelled .0
epeal its decree. M. Roberfpiere, giving a loose
o his violent temper, openly declared the two
ibove named members to be trai r.rs to the' r
ry, and he prayed a day to be nppoir*
he truth of his charge, formally ar
lave with having employed th
neai;s to prevent the e&ccution
olonics. M. B<iiii^,%
enge., and iikewife re
he difcuftion of the r
ucceeded this ch ''
;>ut an end to t 1
iaffed on to '
without ta l
The d
7tb, K'
uad
he
vved a new report be ordered on the fiibjcQ
to be made in ten da\s, which wis decreed.
A thick Vv j il U.ll seems to cloud this fubjefl
and pre' -, at us as yet from forming a judgtrrn
on the t;ac!tion. The whole commercial inter
eft appessi io with tor the repeal of this hurriain
decree. As to the nesvs winch come daily fion
the colonies, they all contradict each <stber, am
each bears the ftampof the fpirii of pn.ty whicl
dilated it. It appears, however, that here is
large majority again!! the adoption of the con
U'Ocd dec ree.
F H ILADELPHI A,
November 24.
E;::ra3 of a letter from a jfentlemati in Charlejlcn
to his friend in t.iu city, dated Nov. 4.
" It has been oblerved by leve.-al foreigners
rtiat, cor.Gderiti;; the immense benefits which lb
French rev luiion promises to the human race
that grand event has palled hi America with lei
cfht, less fympathyot joy, than could have b-er
leafonably expectcd from a people, who but fe
ven years before, had almost by dint of mere en
thufiaftic bravery, emancipated themselves f>on
the chains prepared for them by the parent (late
—In answer to this observation, it might be said
that the American war was of so tcdio s a du
ration, and such perpetual difappointmsms we/
the effetl of their struggles, r at the enthuftafn
of the people naturally fubflded, with the returi
of peace, into a cold and phlegmatic iridi tier
ence. During the interval, too, from the clofeo
the late American war to the last fuccefsful drug
gles of the friends of free government in France
characters were not wanting in this country wh<
exerted such abilities as they possessed, in endea
voridß to persuade the people that the principle:
for v Inch they had so recently fought and bled
were nugatory —and that the right of ena£imj
lawi and governing themselves. lay not with iht
multitude of any nation, but with certain favor
ites of heaven, certain political magicians, tc
whom that sift was imparted (1 suppose) by form
supernatural means. The eftablifLment of £
free government in France, has thiOwn a damp
uoon ihc advocates of such dotfnnei. The po
litical regeneration of twenty-five millions ol
men, as is the cafe in France, is an event thai
must forever abafil the patrons of a baneful a.if
locracy in America. The pure doctrines of re
rubticanifm, and an equality of rights mult and
will prevail; without which roan is but a rep
tile, and liberty but a name; and if a monarchi
cal form ol government be retained in f 1 ranee,
it 1 only because the lages of that countiy have
forefecn, ihat a reformation of abuTes (to work
a valuable effeil) inuft always be gradualm the
manner as the errors of the church o>
Rome were in times past reformed, and the au
thority of the Pope lhaken off by the Princes ol
Europe, not by trampling the creed of the pon
tilf under foot in a sudden fit of paflion, but by
advancing the means of knowletfee among then
fuk-jefcis, winch bas left the Holy Father an
obieft of contempt to every body but his cardi
nals, the officers oftheinquilition, and the devout
old women of his diocese."
I — —•
On Sunday evening last, as three gentlemen,
of this city, were returning from Germantawn,
they were Hopped on the road about one mile
and an half from town by two robbers, armed
with curlaffes, who demanded their money,
clothes, and watches. Owing to some sudden
alarm, however, and some hesitation in comply
ing with their request, the fellows ran off without
accomplishing their purpdle.
We are informed a machine has lately been
invented a: New-Haven, in the Hate of Connec
ticut, to go by water, which takes wool or cotton in
thtir ranrftate; and withoutany, or very trifling
manual labor, car s, spins, and weaves to great
perfection. This machine (out informant fays)
is so invented as to raise water from a pond 01
lake fufficient to keep all its parts in conflant mo
tion. _ , .
A meeting of the inhabitants ot the town ol
Ba limore was adverrifed to beheld on the l6'.h
instant, in order to detetmine on the propriety
and expediency of applying to the General Al
f. mbly of Maryland, now in fcflioa, for an a£t to
incorporate that town.
The General AfTembly of Vermont has passed
a law, laying a tax of one half-penny per acre on
all the lands in that state, for the purpose of rail
ing the sum of ihiriy thousand dollars, to dis
charge the demand of the state of New-Yor*
upon them.
Accounts from the windward Islands mention
a severe gale to have been felt in those parts 1-
boutthe 2,5 th of Oflober, its principal direflion
front the north-weft to the south-west, which as
being diretlly opposite to the uniform Iwell oc
casioned by the general eaftem trade wind, loon
raised the- fe» to such a height as to force many
veflelson Ihore, particularly at St. Kitts, St. Eu
ftitia, St. Thomas and St. Martins. Some ot
thele are wholly loft, others in a way of being
got off again.
A letter from the Island of Dominica, states
thai there aie no less than four hundred (laves 111
bat illand, the property of individuals in Sotuh
:aroima, who were brought off at evacua
ion. lt We are much lurprized (adds the letter,
bat no demand has been made by the
•Qveiumeot of the United Slates tor their ueb
,'rfry, as we reckon ourselves bound by the treaty
of peace to reftorefuch propeity."
By the brig Sally and Polly, arrived on Monday
from Ptirt-au Prince, which place the left otl the
ajth ult. we learn that a treaty had been conclud-
Ed between the vhiics and ir., dittoes in that pari
of St. Domingo ; in confequcnce or which, ijoc
perfoas of colour were embodied to in re
ducing the blacks.
The following, aridrefs from the General Affem
bly of St. Domingo, was read in the Houl
of Reprcfentatives of the United States, 01
Monday last.
To the Honorable the Congress of the United
States.
Gentle j.i en,
IN our letter of the 24th of lad August, voi
received inforinaiion of the misfortunes, whit]
had befallen the northern part of this flourifmn;
colony. Our whole force, though very limited
has been levelled against the ravagers, who ar
U in'g it waste ; and we have (o far accomplish
ed our ends, as, if not to effect their total reduc
tion, at leal! to check the evil in its progress
T hat unhappy catastrophe forced the Genera
Assembly of the French part of St. Domingo ti
embrace every means of fafety, indtfpenfable 11
fimilarcates, and rendered neceffaty by the ur
gency of 1 ncumftances; in conlequence o
which, the (hipping in general, and, among tin
relt, the veflels belonging to vour nation, haVi
experienced some little delay in their departure
But, desirous of maintaining that peace and har
aioii)', that i"ubG(t between France (of which wc
ccinftitute a part) and your Hates—desirous aifc
of tefiif,'ing, as far as in their power, their grate
ful acknosvledgmtnt of the generous fetvices
offered and rendered to the colony, bv the bravt
fubjtcl- of the United States—the General As
fembly, in conceit with the King's reprefenta
tive, have, in the firft place, lefafide the Droi
d'Aubaine, in favor of such as might fall victim
to their own /.eal and course. The Aflembl'
would have wished to abohfh it forever, and t<
extend the exemption to the Americans in gene
ral; but this object being a conrtitutional point
they intend to jpplv for it to the mother caun
try ; and we have nota doubt, that fhs will ea
gerly gratify our wifhe-.
In the next place, having taken intoconftdera
tion the obllacles, experienced by Mr. Silvanu
Bourne, your consul in this colony, to the regif
try of his credentials —obftaclei, which -were oc
cafioned by certain formal defefcts—the Genera
Assembly huftened to remove Uieui, and to givt
orders that the fa ; .d credentials Ihould be regit
tered.
Finally, under the cOlttant influence of tliofi
principles of justice and equity, which ceinen
the union between the two allied nations, ant
delirous of corresponding with the views o
France, who will ever hold dear that memora
ble epoch, when (he saw permanent security giv
en to the unlimited freedom of a nation, (hatha
furnilhedher with the florious example, for thi
recovery of her own rights to long mifunder
flood—The General Assembly have, in favor o
the Americans, hastened to take off the eir,
which the unfortunate fttuation of zi
fails had obliged them to lay on all vessels with
oui dilLnction.
But in vain would the colony have recovers
her former tranquility* if the me&ns of applying
afpeedy remedy to the evil were not to be cm
ployed. The General Assembly have therefor,
determined to fend to your body two new com
miflioners, Melfrs. Deßeauvots and Payan, wh
are provided with letters from the Assembly am
the King's representative.
The General Assembly do not entertain
doubt, that you will, together with a favorabl
reception to them, give your assent to the requi
fitiens which they ar- etrfpowered to make 0
i'OU, the success of which will undoubtedly ex
tend its influence to the commerce, which th
fubieftsof the United States carry on with tin
colonv.
With this pleafmg hope, we contemplate thei
departure, and direfcf them to the representative
of a generous nation, the friend and ally ofFranc
fince'the year 178 a, the period when (he full;
recovered her liberty.
I have the honor to be,
Gentlemen,
Your moll obedient humble servant,
J. PONCIGNON, President
Cape Francais, October 13, 179 1.
Extract from the KEG J&'TL R of the Genera
Assembly of French St- D^vungo.
[Translation.]
OSlober 10, 1791-
A petition has been presented to the Afiembi
by Capt. Kullichy, matter of the American bri
Susanna, acquainting them that " not bei-n
able to find a market for lvis cargo in this port
it is already in a perishing condition, awt mur
be completely ruined, if kept longer on bout
He therefore requests leave to depart from thi
port, or, if he mi# be detained, that his carg
may be purchalcd at the expence of the colony.
in proceeding on the petition, a member pro
posed a decree, that when any American capfai
(hall not have found a sale for his cargo in th
port within fifteen days alter bis arrival,
reasonable price, (which price ihall be fixed b
the Afiembly) it flwll be lavvlul tor b>rti to «j.
the port, and proceed to any other in the co!o.
lie dial! fee fit.
A poflponement of this motion was ttiea met
tioned, but the AJfrmbly declared, that 1: was in
piopcr to defer the confideratiun of the oiciion.
Another member pu ofed,that trie gov; r.mer:t
a! embargo ihould inftantfy be taken cis all Ame
(ican vef'ls, detained under that order.
The Alfembly taking into confutes '.on
om the calamities this island >abo. ,
notbi-nj; more clian an a& °f pr - ■ -
them to extend the embargo, even to th? >nc: oi.o
if foreign yefleli J yet notwithstanding .
ivifii to ( .av all poflible regard to the rights of tia
rions, »n< therefore determine to continue (bit
:i>;afure as ljjprta tiinc as :itCyiu-ai.ices s*il r-':ini.<
Considering, moreover, that the sooner the fo
reign treifels ill ail have difpoltd or their caigoes,
ti s loftier they will be enabled to return to their
r?/pe£tive countries, and bring out »utuie fuppiies
for ths subsistence of the coluny,
Deere cd, That the embargo laiJ upon foreign
vc.Tds be imrneoiately taken off, and tu«t it fhJI
b - lawfui for them to proceed to such ports in the
Co pay as to them lhaJl seem bell.
I ins Alfembly enjoins the Prefidcnt to acquaint
tie Lieutenant Governor General of the illand
wich the above decree, for his approbation, and
tm notify the fame to the Provincial A»fembl:es,
pro- iiionally appointed, of the northern, welternj
in) louthern departments, with aji injunction
upon the latter to make the decree known to the
M jn»cjpalities add other bodies poiitic oi thei;
i'tfyecVive diiltiiii.
Dowji .-.t the SclTions of the General Affcmb'j
the day, month, and vear above
(Signedj ' PONCIGNON, Prejident.
JOUETTE, Vice-Prejident*
Cheron, Vie], Eerauilt,
Goulc, Secretaries.
[ And a little lciver~\
Signed and approved by
BLANCHELANDE.
Head in the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES
on Tuffdav iatl.
The Szcr stary ivkom was refer
red, by the 11 ouse of
the "United States, the petition,of Jacob Ifaacks
<&f Newport, in Rhode-JjJand, has examined in!'
the truth and importance of the allegations tberev
Jet forth y and makes thereon the following
REPORT.
THE petitioner sets forth, that, by variou:
experimeats, with considerable labor anc
;%pence, he hat' discovered a method of convertinj
faU-water into frefh, in the proportion of ?> pint:
aut of 10, bv a process To simple that it may bi
performed on board of veileis at sea by the com-
Bio.i on caboufe Wit'n small alterby ihi
I'ame fire, and in the fame time, which is uiec
for cooking the Ihip's provisions ; and offers tt
:.nvey to the government of the United States 1
faithful account of his art, or secret, to be ufec
by or wkhin the United States, on their giving t(
nm a reward suitable to the importance of the dif
:overy. and, in the opinion of government, ade.
juate to his expences, and the time he has devo
:sd to the bringing it into eft'ed.
In order to al'certain the merit of the petition
er's discovery, it becomes necefl'ary to examine
:he advances a-ready made in the art of convert
ng fait-water into frem.
Lord Bacon* to whom the world is indebted so;
he firft germs of so many branches us science, hat
>bferved, that, with a heat lufficient for diitilia
ion* fait will not rife in vapour, and that fair
vater distilled, is ftefli. And it would seem thai
ill mankind might have observed, that the eartl
s supplied with frefh-water chiefly by exhalation
r rom the sea, which is in fact an inienlibie aiftil
ation effected by the heat of the fun. Yet this,
:hough the moil obvious, was not the firft idea ir
be eflays for converting salt-water into freih. FiL
:ration was tried in vain, and congelation coulc
>e related tQ only in the coldest regions am
-afons. in all the earlier trials by diftilJation
"ome mixture was thought necetfary to aid thi
>peration by a partial precipitation of the fait
ind other foreign matters contained in sea-water
3f this kind were the methods of Sir Richar<
Hawkins, in the 16th century, of Glauber, Hau
on and Lifter, in the 17th, ana of Haies, Ap
>leby, Butler, Chapman, Hoffman and Dove, ix
;hc iSth : nor was there any thing in these me
hods worthy noting on the present occasion, ex
ept the very simple still contrived extempore b
Dapt. Chapman, and made from such material
is are to be found on board every ihip, great 0
"mall. This was a common pot with a woodej
id of the usual form, in the centcr of which
was bored to receive perpendicularly a fhor
vooden tube, made with an inch and half auger
vhich perpendicular tube received at it's top, an<
it an acute angle, another tube of wood aifo
vhich descended till it joined a third, of pewter
nadeby rolling up a difh,and palling it obliquel
hrough a caflc of cold water. With this fimpl
nachme he obtained two quarts of frefh-water ai
iour, and observed, that the of fuel vvouli
it. Ver\ trifling, if the still was contrived to flam
)n the tire along with the fbip's boiler.
In 1762, Dr. Lind propoiing to make expeji
ilents of several diltertnt mixtures,* firft diftillei
ain-water, which he supposed would be the purelV
ijid then sea-water, without any mixture, whicl
le expelled would be the least pure, in order t<
irrange between these two supposed extremes th
of merit of the fevera! ingredients he mean
0 trv. Ie To his great surprise," as he confefies
he sea -water wjthouc any mixture, wa
is pure as the rain-water. He pursued the dil
:overy and eftabiiflied the fad, that a pure am
rotable freih-water ma) be obtained from falt-wa
:er by iimplc diftiliation without the aid of an
for fining or precipitating it's foreigi
contents. In 1767, he proposed an extempore ilill
vhich, in fa&, was Chapman's, only lubftitutin
1 gun-barrel instead of Chapman's pewter tube
ind the hand-pump of the fiiip to be cut in tw
>bliquely, and joined at an acute angl.'j
mread of Chapman's wooden tubes bored ex
)refs>, or, imHad of th* wooden lid up,,gh
:übe, he propoiea a tea-kettie (without i; i lii
:>t handle.) to be turned bottom upwards ove, th
iouth of the pot, by way of ftill-hea?, and
»:übe heading from the spout to a ;un
3 irrel gaffing through a cafic of water, the who!
uted with etjuai pans of chalk and meal moiftenei
fait- .vater.
Whfe this apparatus of a pot, tea- kcrtle an'
-.lii-bairel, the Dolphin, a2O gun iliip, in he
. .v . .(»und the world, in 1768, from 56 gallon
•a -atrr 7 nd w.lth 91b. of wood and 691b. 0
.• coa«, rnafi f 42 gallons of good frefhwater at tlx
i..*iO; zjU.'ii ai hour. The Doifetfhire, 'r
. ; from Cibriltar to Mahon, in 1769;
1., _.c ic quui .-ol water in 4 hour's vith lolb
fvvood: And the Slambal, in 1773, between
liomb-iy and Bengal, with a han<* pump,
barn I and a pof, c f 6 gallon of sea-water made
10 quarts of frefh water in 3 hours.
In 1771* Dr. l-«Un, putting together Lind *
idea of diftillin# wwiLhovt a mixture, Chapman i
ftifTj and Dt. Frinxl'n'S method of cooling by
evaporation, obtained a premium of 50001. from
the Britiih paii'arnenc, He wet his tube con
.'luntly with a mop infteadof palling, it through 4
calk of >/3ter ; He enlarged its bore alio in order
to jjive a freer parage to the vapour, and thereby
encreale its quantit) by leltening the refinance o:
prefiure on the evaporating furface: this la'*
Improvement v/a« his own 1 and it donbtlefvcontri
buted to the »uccefs of his models 5 and we may
fuppofc the enlargement of the tube ro be ufefui to
that point at which the central parts of the vapour,
pafiing through it, would begin to escape conden
sation' Lord Mulgrave uied his method in his
voyage towards the North Pole in 1773, making
from 34 to qfr gallons of freihwater a day, without
any great addition of fuel, as he lays,
M. de Bougainville in his voyage round the
world, uled, very fuccefafully, a ftiil which he 1
beeii contrived in 1763, by Poyffonier, lo as to
guard against the W3ter being thrown over from
the boiler irjto the pipe by the agitation of tl.a
Ih p- In this.one singularity was, that the fur
nace or fire box was in the midale of the boiler,
so that the wafer Surrounded'it in Con'tafr. Tim
still, however, was expensive and occupied nuuh
room.
Such were the advances already made in the art
of obtaining frefti from fait water, when Mr.
Ifaacks, the pdtitionT, fuggerted his diScovery.
As the merit of this could be ascertained by
experiment only, the Secretary of State asked the
favor of Mr. Rittenhoufe, President of the Ame
rican Philosophical Society, of Dt. Wiftar, pro
feflbr of chemistry in the college of Philadelphia,,
and Dr. Hutchinfon, profelfor of chemistry in
the university of Pen jfylvania, to be prefer Cat
the experiments. Mr. Ifaacks 6xed the pot cf a
small caboufe, with a tin cap and strait tube of
tin pasting obliquely through a calk of cold water 5
he made use of a mixture, the compohtioa of
which he did not explain, and from 24 pints of
Tea water, taken up about 3 miles our of the
Capes of Delaware at flood tide, he distilled 22
pints of freih water, in 4 hours, with 2olb. of
seasoned pine, which was a little wetted by hav
ing lain in the rain.
In a 2d experiment of the 21ft of March, per
formed in a furnace and five gallon ftiil at th«
college, from 32 pints of sea water he drew 31
pints of fre/h water in 7 h. 24 min. with slib.5 lib.
of hickory which had been cut about fix months.
in Order to decide whether Mr. Ifaacks's mixture
contributed in any and what degree to the success
of the operation, it was thought proper to repeat
his dxperirrTfcnc under the fame circumstances
exactly, except the omifiion of the mixture. Ac
cordingly on the next day the fame quantity ot* sea
water was put into the fame still, the lame furnace
was used, and fuel from the lame pa.cel. It yield
ed, as his had done, 31 pints.of freih water in n
min. more of time and with lolb less of wood.
On the 24th of March Mr. Ifaacks performed
a3d experiment. For this, a common iron pot
of gallons was fixed, in brick, work, and the
flue from the hearth wound once round the poc
fpiially, and then parted off up a chimney. Th«
can was of tin, and a strait tin tube of about two
inches diameter, passing obliquely through a bar
rel of water, Served infteard of a worm. From 16
pints of Cca water he drew off 15 pints of frefli
wafer in 2 h. 55 min. with 31b. of dry hickory and
Sib. of seasoned pine. This experiment was also
repeated the next day, with the fame apparatus
and fuel from the lame parcel, but without the
mixture. Sixteen pints, of sea water yielded in
like manner 15 pints of freih, in 1 min. more of
time and with naif a pound less of wootl* On the
whole, it was evident that Mr. Ifaaeks'a mixrure
produced no advantage, either in the procels or
result of the distillation.
Theaiftilled water in ail these instances was
found on experiment to be as pure as the best
pump water of the city. Its taste indeed was not
as agreeable, but it was not such as ro produce
any oifguft. In fa&, we dr-inJc in common life,
in many places, and under many circumstances,
md almoit always at sea, a worse tasted, and pru
sably a less wholeiome water.
The obtaining frelh from saltwater, forages was
onfidered as an important desideratum for the us&
if navigators. The procels for doing this by
iraple distillation is so efficacious, the ere#ing an
xtempore ftiil with luch utenltTs as are found on
voard of every lhip is lo practicable, as to autho
ize the aflertion, that this desideratum is fatisfied.
o a very ufefui degree. But though this has been
Lone for upwards of 30 years, though Its realitv
las been eftablifhcd by the aCiual experience of
everal veifeis which have hadiecouife to it, yec
leither the fa£k nor the process i» known to the
nafsof seamen, to whom it would be the iru-ft ofe
ulf and for whom it was principally wanted.
The Secretary of State is therefoie of opinion,
hat lincethe fubjeel has now been brought under
►bfervation, it ihould be made the occasion of
lifleminating its knowledge generally and effec
ually among th- feafaring citizrns of the United
ita r es. The following is one of the many mc
;hods which might be proposed fordoing this. Lec
he clearance lor every velTel. failing from the
>orts of the United States, be printed on a papei,
»n the back whereof frail be a printed account
t the el'fays which have been made for ob.ainii *
relh from fait water, mentioning ihortly tho:e
vhich have been unfuccefsful, and more ful y
hose which have succeeded ; defcrib'ng tne me
:hods which have been found to answer for con.
trudling extempore ftllls of fucfi' jin pigments t
»re generally on board of e«\ry ve.fljel, with ai,.
:ommcndation, in all cases wheie they'ftall' na\e
>ccafion to to this expedient for obcaining
vater, to publifli the result of their crial in fom*
Jitette on their return to the United S ( iiea, or
:o communicate it for publication to th • orlke cf
;he Secretary ».f State, in order that otocra mas,
hftheir success, be encouraged to hmi'^r
[rials', and pe banefitted byany impro'vemencs ( .
new idca3 which may occur to them :a
TII : JEFFERSON.
Pbilade'pbioy Novemtir 17 r. 1.FOR THE NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Lines facied to the Memory of
FOPLING FLUTTER,
[Unfortunately drowned in a l&ll-pond, about a
•week before his intended marriage, April) 1787.]
LOST in the suds, the rouge upon his cheek,
And matted in the Wave his hair so fl<;ek,
His India vert, and coif of bottle-green,
No more at church or play-house shall be seen j
fao more shall ladies that complexion praise $
No more the buckle shine, the button blaze !
How will Belinda, when this neWs ihe hears,
Mourn her Adonis in a sea of tears ;
Drown'd in a pool, and scarce a fathom deep,
(A shallow grave) how will Belinda weep 1
,e Had this but hap'd (the pensive maiden cries)
Far on the Atlantic main, where billows rife,
And stormy gales the foundering vefiel chaCe,
1 might have borne it with a better face :
Bur, to be droWn'd where only cat-fiih play,
Or llippery eels purfufe their grovelling way,
Where ihepherd Damon scours his lousy goats,
And truant school-boys fail their baby-boats.—
This breaks my heart! this prompts the heavy
sigh—
Was ever wretched girl so plagu'd as J,
Condemn'd topafs three days in grief and pain,
Go, Jacky, go—dear boy—and haul the seine."
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Resolved, That tbe following Acts and Rejtlu
tiors be pubhjbedfor the information of the Stock
holders of tbe Bank of tbe United States, and
fuchperfons as may have to tranfaft bufmefs with
the Bank.
rpHAT the Bank shall be opened on every «*ay
j| (Sundays, Chrillmas-day, an.i the fourth of
July, excepted) at nine o'clock in the morning,
and so remain four o'clock in the afternoon.
That ailcounts for the prtfent, and until alter
ed by a quarterly or special meet'ng of the Board
of Directors convened for that purpose, shall be
made at the rate of fix per cent, per annum \ and
that all bills or notes offered for discount, (hall be
delivered into the Bank on Monoay or Wednes
day, and laid before the Dire&ors, together with
a liate of the funds of the Bank every Tuesday
anc Thursday, on which days the discount shall
be fettled, and shall be made known on the next
succeeding days*
That discounts /hall be made for the present
and aitered by a quarterly or special meeting
of the board of Directors convened for that pur
pose, upon personal security only with at leait fwe
refyonfible names, for a term not exceeding sixty
days, and that three days of grace be allowed on
ail. bills or notes pa) able to the Bank, and that the
discount be taken fox the fame.
That bills or notes left with the Bank shall be
presented for acceptance, and the money colle&ed
or demanded, free of expence : Provided never
theless, that incaf# of non-payment and protest,
the charge of protest lhall Ife paid by the person
lodging the bill or note.
That payments made at the Bank shall be ex
amined at the time, and no error suggested after
ward (hall be corre&ed.
That the payment of the portion of the capital
stock, consisting of specie, which will be due on
the several shares fubferibed on the firft Monday
of January next, be made at the Bank—but that
the portion confuting of public debt, which will
be due on the several shares fubferibed, on the
lirft Monday of January next, may be made at the
option of the Stockholders, by transferring the
fame to the President, Directors) and Company oi
the Bank of the United States, at any time on or
before the firft Monday of January next, eithc.
upon the books of any of the or upon
the books of any of the Comrniiiioners of Loam
for any of the United States.
That the form of the power for voting by proxy
at any election, be :
Know all men by these presents,
That of do hereby appoim
to be fubftitu;e and proxy so;
and in name and behalf, to voti
at any e'e&ion of a Director or Dire<slois of tlv
Bank of the United States, as fully as
might or could were perlona4ly present,
in wnefs whereof, have hereunto fe
hand ana seal, this day of
in tiie year
Sealed and delivered 7
in the presence or }
That the fori* of lire power for voting by prox
refVe&ing the ena&ing, repealing or amendinj
Bye-Laws, Ordinances and Regulations, be :
Know all men by these present';
That of do hereby appoint
iubftitute or proxy, to represent at all meet
ings of the Stockholders of the Bank of the Unit
ed StJtes, and in and behalf to toe
refge&ing the ena&ing, repealing or amendin,
such Bye-Laws, Ordinances, or Regulations, a
may be deemed necessary and convenient for tb
government of the laid Bank#
In witnefi whereof, have hereunto fe
hand and seal, this day o
in the year
Sealed and delivered 7
in the presence of y
That the form of the power for felling, atfign
ing and transferring Bank Stock, be :
Know all men by these presents
That of do hereby conftitut
and a point of true and iawiul ar
tornev, for and in nam- and.behp.l% to fell
assign and tranofer unto any person or persons, th,
whole or any part of share unr<
belonging in the capital or joint stock
of the "President, Directors and Company of th;
B«nk of the United Stares, and for that pupofe t
make and execute all necefiary a&sof alignment;
and transfer, and furthermore, one or more per
sons under rofubftitute with like full power,
]n witness whereof, have hereunto k
hand and seal, this day of i/
the year
Scaled and delivered 7
in the presence of y
That the form of tlie power to receive Divi
iends be—
Know all men by These prf.ss
Thar of do hereby Constitute an<
ippoint lawful attorney for a-nd ii
name and behalf, to receive and give receipt
or all dividends now due, or which ma\ grov
'Je on ihare to belonging, ii
he capital or joint stock of the President, Direc
ors and Company of the Bank of the Unites
>ta.tes.
Jn witness whereof, have hereunto ft*
hand and feai, this day of ii
he year
»oaled and delivered 7
in the presence of 3
That the bank fhal; receive and day '.11 fpeci
oins, according to the rates and vaiue ha? l
een ot (hall hereafter be eltabl bv
That the lawful poHVllion of a £mtscar£ for ;
hare in the Blink of the V nitcd States, j/Tjc j b
he p&rfons appointed to receive iubfcriptions to th<
aid Bank, and accompanied by an alJignmen
hereof, shall be deemed a fufficient authority to
he transfer at the Bank of iuch ihare to the per
on to whom the fame ihall have been thus afiigned,
That the delivery to THOMAS WILLING
of the Bank of the United States, of i
ertificate of public debt, bearing an annual inte
eft of fix per cent, and upon the book;
f a loan-office in any of the states, accompanies
/ith a power of attorney, authciir.log the faic
: HOM A 9 WILLING, or his fubfHtute, tc
ransfer to the President, Diie&ors and Company
f the Bank of the United States, the whgl.: oj
he part of the stock exprefi'ed in such certificate
ball for so much as may be thus transferred, be
eemed a payment pursuant to the charter of the
aid Bank, and on the account of the firft and fe
ond payment in the public debt, which will be
ome due upon Bank shares on the Jirft Mondas
n January next, provided that rbe delivery of rhe
aid certificate and power of attorney be made tc
he said THOMAS WILLING, on or beforfc the
aid firft Monday in January ; and that fat:-;"a&o
---y evidence be given to the of t:-e faic
lank, of the completion of luch fransf<rs 015 01
efore the 6r;t Monday in March nfrxt.
That the Bank receive transfers as any of the
üblic debt in trust for such persons as rosy rc
uire the fame.
That in all cases when thfereunto required, that
be Bank accept powers of attorney for receivifte
iterefts due, or to grow due upon any of the pub
c debt, and hold the fame at the order of the pro
rietor, free of charge.
Resolved, That it will be expedient to eib'oliii
ffices of Discount and Depofitin the feveraf cities
f Charleftoii and New-York, and towns of Bal
imore and Boston, as soon as may be after the
trft Monday of January next, upon the following
lan.
Art* t. The Dir<3orsof the of the Uni
ed .States shall appoint a 1 umber of Directors no
than nine for each department, a majority 01
rhnm /hall constitute a boarti.
Art. 2. The Dire&ors for each "department
ball choose one of their number for Pre/idem.
Art. 3. The Direttors of the Bank of the Uni.
'd States ihall appoint the Calhiers of depart
nents. #
Art. 4. 1 he Dire£lors of .departments QiaJ ap
oint their refpedtive Tellers, Clerks and Servants;
nd the securities by them given, shall be approv
d by the Directors of the Bank of the Unitec
itates.
Art. §. The Dire&ors of department ihall bf
nnuaily appointed, but not moie jhan three
ourths of whom, exclusive of the President, ihall
>e eligible for the next succeeding year.
Art. 6. The compensation to the President,
Tellers, Clerks and Servants of departments, fhali
•e eftabr ; fhed by the Dire&ors ot the Bank of the
Jnited States.
Art, -j. The manner of keeping, dating and
endering the accounts of the departments/ fhaJ,
ie prescribed by the Directors of the Bank of ihe
Jnited States, and the observance of the rule? cf
ablifhed ihalkbe enforceu by the Directors of the
Jank of the United State-, to whom accounts of
lepartments shall be rendered.
Art. 8. That part of the capital stock of the
3ank which consists of the public debt of the
Jnited States, shall not be divided, but the de
triments ihall dilcount upon such pa:l of the
'pecie capital 6f the said Dank as the Directors
shall apportion r* iheiTijwich f'uqti part of tj* \je.
ftofits as fhall'be lodged with them from time tc
time, as the Directors of departments (hall judge
fafe and expeJ^nt.
Art. 9. All notes ifTued at the departments
ihall be figntd and countersigned by the President
and Cashier of the-Bank of the United States—
shall be made payable at the refpeftive depart
ments from which they are ifl'ued, and ihall be
delivered to the of the department, whe
shall give duplicate receipts for the fame, uie 0;
which is to be lodged with the PreUdtnt <s*-th<
Bank of the United States, and the other wit}:
the President of the department.
Art. 10. All notes which ihall have bec©m<
unfit for circulation, shall be cancelled by the Pre
sident and Directors of departments, and imme
diately thereafter transmitted to the Dire&ors o
the Bank of the United States, who ihall caufi
the said departments to be credited for the fame.
Art. 10. The refpe&ive departments shall
once in every week, make out and transmit to th<
Directors of the Bank of the United Stotes, j
dirtirft abftraft of the state of theii funds—
which abftraO ihall afceitain the of tli<
debts and creaits of the oepartment, the amoun
of notes iff» ed by the detriment ajuJ tbe j
in circulation, the amotsnt of cafi; on
and fhal!' kewife diftiuguifli in the account of Cail
on hand, how much thereof is in specie, and hov
much in the leveral kinds of Bank notes.
Art. iz. That the Continuance of the fait
feveial departments ihall be at the pleasure of th<
Dire<stors of the Bank of the United Stare&«v-bu
none of the foregoing regulations ihall be reXfind
ed, unless at a meeting of a majority of the whoji
number of the Diretlors, ai ter a noticc given €o
that purpose at a preceding meeting.
By order of the Board of Dire&orsy
THOMAS WiLLING, PrefidtjK.
Cour.terfgrrdi John Caihier.
FRANKFORT, August 9.
A Papnphlet in the German language is circu
lated through the empire, and read with avidity
entitled,
A CRUSADE AGAINST THE FRANKS }
Or, a Patriotic Speech to be delivered in th
German Diet, Germany) the second year 0
Liberty.
The following Is an Extract .
" Is it true, Princes/ that the thirst of Frencl
Mood inJuces you to extinguiih the flames of wa
in the eflftj ih order to light them up in the wrj
of Europe. In what refpeft have the French pa
tion offended you ?
" The French have ceased to think that vir
tues, taJents and knowledge, descend from fire ti
iop, Jike robes of ceremony. With them the me
(it oi' ancestors is no avail to cover prejudices, vi
ces, and infignificance : the nobility of head am
heart has destroyed that of birth.
" The French have ceased to think that it wa
neceflary, in order to please God, to support, at ;
great expence, arid in luxury, lazv drones of all co
lours to make long prayers. They have brough
back the monk? and priests, and the bi/hops 1
the primitive purity, and limplicity of christianity
"•The French have thought that it was bette
to put a flop to disputes by reconciliation, thai
to foment division by endless litigations betwee,
citizens : they have established judges of peace.
u Without the revolution France must hav
been a bankrupt j and thousands, too credulous
reduced to beggary. The French are now just t
their engagements—they pay their debts.
" Whilst despotism occupied the throne c
France, all who were contiguous to that power ha
reason to dread its neignborhood. An eternj
peace is now a fundamental law of that powerft
empire.
" Princes, from wha-t treaty do you derive
ightof difturbirig France. She guarantied indee
he German constitution by the peace of Wefl
shalia j but the despotism of the kings of Franc
•vas never guarantied. Why would you draw th
sword f Ii it for Louis XYI ? He does not de
mand your afliftance. He has himfelf sworn £h
French constitution, and declared himfelf, in th
fyesof the nation and of Europe, your friend am
aroteCtor.
" The nation ftiJl less has called for you ; an<
tnougfe you had the absurd right of interfering ij
i:s internal afiairs, you have not that of attempt
mg to convert it at the expence of our money
and of our blood, If their constitution is good
t will fubhft in ipite of you—in fpitc of us. i
it is defective, time and experience will produo
.he neceilary reforms. Twice in one centup
iwed' n has changed its constitution j this chang<
has not cost its neighbors one drop of blood.
" What difference does it make to the neigh
bors of France, whether it has one legillator, 01
CWfhve hundred 5 whether the nation i* governe<
by miflieffes, by mini Iters and the r creatures, o
t>v the deputies of the people j whether the Gal
lic prielis are tat or lean ? Will the German com
merce be injured if the prince of Conde is callec
limply M. Conde ?
4t But, exciaim the French ariftocrates, our
aufc is the common cause of kings This terri
ble revolution is an eledlric (hock, which will pui
-•very thing in motion. The example of tht
French will not want imitators. Other nations
will learn from them to tread under foot royaJ
rnajefty. The herel'y of the French, like their
Millions and caprices, will infect all Europe.
" Fhus Ipeak thofepretended friends of kings:
but what they in reality regret —what they wi/h to
restore, is not so much the interest of royalty as
:hat of ariltocracy ; it is not the king whom they
tfifh to re-eltablifli j it is their their
rrofles,. their ribbons, their titles. They regret
hat they are no longer viziers at the court, Pachas
n the provinces, farmery general, in order to de.
/our the treasury j parliaments, in order to eredt
hemfelves into the preceptors of kings, ana
iroudly engross the title of fathers of thtir coun
ty i prelates, in order to lvvim in opulence, and
nuulge in vice, See. &c. all regret that they are no
onger able to gratify their private resentments
vith leitres de cachet, thar rhey ave no longer
»b;e to fatten on the substance oi the state? whilst
niJliona ol families are left to oppreliion ana ncg
jary.
" Germans ! iar from the Frencn ;e
---i'oiutionj you ought to thank heayeti for having
>roductd It.
" When France was uridzr the ycke of an ab
iolute prince, what did you not suiTer ! which ol
ais neighbours did not experience the etlc&s of his
ury and ambition ? Since Charles Viii. Italy,
&pain, Germany, and the low countries, have in
urn been ravaged by French despotism. Did not
Lewis XIV. cover the Palatinate with ruins and
i fnes i who brought Holland to the brink of mi 1 ,
"ho filled Spain ana Italy with coniternacion. aou
kho would have made Germany a province of
France, if the viftr.ry of Hockfted had rot fto-t ;hi
:areer 01 his conquers ? Such was the condudt 01
a despot. Such iti 11 would be his condu&, if he
rould at his pleasure dispose of the population and
mduftry of the French nation. Sucii is the con
dud to which the revolution has now for ever cf
leciuaily put a ltop. A hundred years since wc
inourd have celebrated such a revolurion by bon
fires and solemn thanks to the Almighty j hov;
(hould we have exalted Pvlirabeau and his col
leagues, as ;ingelb deicended from heaven to the
luccour of humanity :—and now, Germans, woui
you again put into the hands of a deJpotio povier
tul, the ftvoid stained with the blood of jour fatheji
and your brothers, and point it «ncw againit youi
chHfireft ♦ and all thisyoU Would do, nor for Lew
is XVI. who doe; not demand it, but in order to
plesle lome arifiocrates, who regard as nothing the
tepofe of neighbouring state:, and the haptonel
of their fellow-citizens.
L O N D O N, Sept. 10.
Our Mlniflers insisted upon riie indifpenfablc
necenity of the Rufiians rel; Ocz •
and, to convince the Empress they we e mrV,'
equipped, as all the world kn u s , a hnr fleet -
kat ft.e w,s so ofcft r.atc t., .efift ,h„ si
mode of argument, they, our iforefaia
Mini Hat, now fay thej w,il te:i the Malmaicuas
it would not Jo ; —that they rruft, therefore,
peace with her on the tetms (he has dittated, for
that really no better conditions could be obtained.
They will, no doubt, utge as a proof how highly
we value an alliance with the riefcendanti of the
Prophet, our having spent a million of money-
It would be very provoking; if this unchristian
people applied the old adage to us—" Fools and
their money, &c."
I am told we are not to have any additions)
taxes :—But do you think, Mr. Editor, that if
atir great calculator, the Premier, could hit upon
another, what he calls productive, efficient 01-jeifl
jf taxation, his fingers would not itch ? When
be produced his budget to pay off the Spa/iifh ar.
mament, we were told the expences would be liqui
fated by the additional taxes within four years j and
I remember verv well, he previouflv told us there
vas a furblus of revenne, teyond paying the annii
il million of the national debt :—What then did
le mean by an additional permanent tax on bills
>no receipts ? 1 don't recollect that he hinted at
iny relref to the poor by this heavy tax on com
merce, and, by his own account, as a permanent
■He, f'uperfluous ?—But, perhaps, his great mind
"ill deign to ct/nliaer the poor in the article of
mall beer, for they certainly contribute more than
hey can well bear to lupoly him and his friendj
■vith burgundy Surely Mr. Editor, you don't
imagine our Minlfters to be so highly gifted, that
hey forefaw they should have occasion for an odd
million for a flourifh this year at Portsmouth and
Plymouth, or for another next spring, and so on,
id libitum, to maintain the dignity of Great Bri.
.ain at h ime and abroad. Jn my opinion, the
public will begin to have a little forefight, as well
as Minifleis. i fear the former will be too late
:onvinced of their Credulity, and the latter of hav.
ng to much impoled upon a generoa!>,, nnfufpeft
ng people.—Both parties may profit, it tiiey take
i timely hint.
The National AlTembly of France havepafled a
iecree prohibiting all clauses in wills, (commonly
heeffefl of parentile caprice,) by which fathers
iifinherit the children, if they marry fucli and fach
3erfons.-—This is one of the ideas of the late cele
brated Mirabeau, who abfoliit'ely denied that, up
m the principles of nature and reason, a dead man
:ould have any wi.'l. A d«ao man ( said he) is a
ion-entity, and the moment the breath leaves the
>ody it is absurd that Irs will ihould be any Jongef
n force, so as to bind the living, where the prin
ciples of natural equity are infringed, or where the
Jequefts are not conformable to the laws of nature,
■qual heirfliip, and the laws of a well regulated
community.
GEORGE MEA I)1T
has for sale,
At his Stores on Walnut-Street Wharf,
AF EPs- pi-ies of 3and 4 years old bins of ex
change Madeira tVINE, which he ivill dif
)ofe of by the pipe, hogfocad or quarter cajk*
London market Madeira WINE, 5 and 6years old.
Old Sherry JVJNE of the frfi quality, by the
ocgfhead or quarter lojk.
Three and 4 years old Vtjbon WINE, of a fu
>erior quality to <wbat is generally imported, by the
quarter cctfk, or larger quantity
Choice old Comae BRANDT, by the pipe, tierce,
tr larger quantity.
A few quarter chefls of Jirji quality HyfonTEA.
, Hl has juji received by the Ptgeu, Lax Icy, mafier,
ram London, a few quarter cajks of old Madeira
VINE—And
By the brig Mercury, capt. Stevens, from Dub
in, a few boxes of Irish LINENS, low trued
<nd wei.l assorted : a few bales of Re i and White
r LANNtiLS, andJome GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDI F,S of the
irjt quality, and Burlington PORKofprirr.e quality.
rLoaYsTAvM' ' J " qU """ y "
He means to keep a conflant supply of Firfl Sua.
y Madeira and Lifßon WINES, and 4hoover '
spleafed to favor bm with their cuficn:, may be
tjfured of oeing vve/l served.
he will through the Winter ar.d Spring, b u \>
[i re MJ !AbiDSPIKES - H < » pucoa.'l
t,lA D aui e£ES WAX > h *
he highejl Price for them.
onlVifii 'f excellent Lordn
ORTER and Taunton ALE, jejf arrived a,d
o be dtfpefed of.
~CHARLES BITTERS,
No. 120,
South Market, near Fourth Street,
"las received irom New-York, and manufa&ured
BY LOT MERXEL,
A large and General Assortment of
VTuffs iff Tippets, Trimmings &
Edgings,
j*eat Coats, Caps, Mitts & gloves lined with Fur;
which he will fell,
Whoiefale and Retail,
at the lowcft Prices.
° a - 4- lawtf
LIVE ry stable.
PETER WEBBERS
HA> 1 cinoved his Suble from Black- Horse-
AlUy to Drinkers-All if, formerly kept by
l !r- Hypel, betwixt Arch and Race-Streets in
>c:cmd-Street, where he continues to take in
JORSES by the Night, Vv'eek, Mon.h or
» < <*y, Ssc. ar rht chcapeft rate*
Philadelphia, Oft. 7.
A few Copies of the Report of the Secretary
'f on the Jabjeß of the Cod and Whale
F"ijheries—may be had at the office, No. 239,
h'igh-ftreet.
PRINTED BY
c H I L D S AND SWAINE,
*T THEIR OFFICE, NO. 239, HICH-ST Il f,
S JXTH-3TR.E fc T>
'HItAOXLPHIA.