Vol. I,
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
No. I.
ON the establishment of the federal
government, it was reasonably ex
peCted by the free citizens of America
that they would find that protection tc
their general and individual interests
tvnicii it is the duty of government tc
render : Nor did any man suppose that
immediately upon its organization, oni
of the fir ft Sits of the adminiftratior
thereof would be to enforce the obliga
t:ons of a treaty mutually obligatory up
on the contracting parties, and which
having been lhamefully and avowedl\
infra&ed by one party, could no longe
be deemed binding on the other. 1
will be seen, that I allude to the cogni
2ance which the federal courts have ta
lien, and the decision they are about t<
give on the subjeCt of British debts, ir
the event of which, as I conceive, th<
dignity, peace, and fafety of the go
vernment greatly depends: And altho
those courts, ftcm the terms and man
ner of their institution, Cannot avpic
to meet the question, whenever it i:
brought before them, yet surely a noto
rious public infraction of the treatv or
the part of Great-Britain, and that too,
in the instance of with-holdmg public
and private property, should have in
duced such a proceeding on the part of
the present government, for obtaining
indemnity for this infraction, as would
have kept equal progress with the
claims of British creditors in our courts
of law, or, in cafe of refufal or delay
of such indemnity, a like refufal or ful
pienfion of the recovery of Briti£h debts.
It may perhaps be alledged, that the
ligation of the government hitherto,
and the dubious terms of the constitu
tion, as to the competent power for de
claring an infraction of the treaty; on
the part of Great-Britain, have delay
ed such a proceeding : it may be lb; but
surely a farther delay for this cause
Vill argue a disinclination, and not a
power to demand and obtain justice.
The power to make the declaration I
have mentioned, certainly exilts; nor
is it to be supposed that a longer delay
will be patiently acquiesced in ; for al
ready in one state (and that an impor
tant one) is the public mind awakened,
the public voice exerted, and the mea
i'ureof equaljultice and full protection
demanded, on behalf of its abused and
injured citizens. Perhaps the patient
fuftering of this people hitherto, may
be misconstrued by some into an admil
lion of the truth of that common bul
iniftaken suggestion, that the payment
of the private debts, due from the indi
viduals of one country to those of thf
other, has no relation to that infraCtior
of the treaty on the part of Great-Bri
tain, which is complained of. Ii
cannot, however, be forgotten, thai
this suggestion has been fully and pub
licly refuted by the conduCt and decla
ration of both the contracting parties :
by the former Congrels in the mftruc
tioas to their ministers at the court ol
London, which produced so long, te
dious, and ineffectual a negociation on
the subjeCt, on theii part ; and by the
court of London, in the well-known
animadversions made by the marquis ol
Carmarthaen, on the existing laws of
the several states respeCting the recove
ry of British debts, and in which it
was ultinfately avowed, that the impe
diments to a recovery, which those laws
had created, and the well-known im
becility of Congress under the powers
of the then existing government, to en
force the execution of the treaty on
their part, were a fufficient juftification
to Great-Britain for with-holding a
compliance on its part. The recol
leCtion of these facts, therefore, will
be fufficient to juftify the conduCt
of the state to which I have alluded,
which demands that the policy of the
Britilh court Ihould be retorted upon
By PHILIP FREN EA U.
1 HURSDAY, December 8, 1791.
them, by with-holding a compliance
with the treaty on our part, so far as
refpefts the recovery of BritiQi debts,
until adequate reparation be made for
with-holdjng the western posts, and for
the value of the slaves carried off ; and
it is aimoft fuperfluous to add, that
th is example of the British, in holding
fact a security for our performance,
should be followed by us in holdinq
fact this only security for a performance
on theirs, until in the course of future
negociation the dispute is accommoda
ted to mutual Perhaps no
reasonable obje£iion can be offered tc
tais mode of proceeding, so proper tc
vindicate the violate 4 rights and
honor of an independent nation, unless
it be a blind adherence to certain fafh
ionable and courtly maxims of the day,
by which it is endeavored to be incul
cated, " that peace, and a good under-
Handing with Great-Britain, inuft be
arcferved at any price; that by pursuing
his policy alone can the infant system
)f our government take root andftabili
:y ; and that America ought, imper
ceptibly, to grow to greatness, like the
rees of herwilderneifes, in the midst of
lilence and retreat."—Maxims, repug
nant to the essential interests and pros
perity of our country, which do not ap
ply to her relative situation and cir
cumstances, and which, in the opinion
jf the great body of the yeomanry of
America, flow from the influence of
that partial system of things, wherein
the advantage of the marly is made sub
servient to the emolument and aggran
dizement of the few; a system already
x>o well understood, to admit the ag
gravation of that farther injury to the
-ights of the people, which, an adhe
rence to those maxims in thepreffcnt
nftance, might produce.
Americanus*
December 7, 1791.
Extrafy from Umfrevjlle's " Prtfcnt
Jlatc of Hudsons-Bay."
(A late Work.)
THERE is not, perhaps, any joint
trade or monopoly existing, that
is carried on in a manner more unoftcn-
Latious, or what is meant by the vulgar
termfnug, than that which is in the
bands of the Hudson's Bay Compa
ny. The commodities in which they
rade, are procured in so sterile and
r i igid a climate, and by so few agents,
:hat there is no scope for that eager
competition for subordinate emoluments
which the more genial and exteniive
erritories of the East hold out to needy
idventurers.
Twenty years ago the governor of
York-Fort, which was the company's
principal establishment in the Bay, an
nually sent home at Icaft thirty thou
sand skins, and maintained no more
than twenty-five men, at very low wa
?es ; at present that place has upwards
of one hundred men at it, who have in
creased salaries, and it fends home no
more than twenty thousand skins, upon
an average, from itfelf and four subor
dinate settlements ; and these are pro
cured at an expence, which a few years
back would have been looked upon as
next to an annihilation of their com
mercial existence.
It is an incontrovertible faft,*that
since the Frcnch have evacuated Cana
da, the fur trade from the inland parts
of Hudson's Bay, has been carried on
to a greater extent than ever it was be
fore ; for the company, who till then
confined themselves to the sea-shore.
knew nothing of the numerous nation:
inland; and these again knew as little
of them : that the company, notwith
standing they had obliged themfelvc:
by their charter to explore the whol<
of their territories, confined themfelve:
within a small circle. They consequent
ly did not exert their influence to pro
cure peltries, or to augment the con
[dmption 6f British manufa&ures, by
iny other methods than through the
channel of a very few Indians, compa
ratively speaking. These Indians, how
iver, brought down enough to enrich
n few individuals, whose interest it was
to prevent too great an influx of furs,
which would not only lower the price
market, but probably open the eyes
as an injured commercial people. In
:be days I am alluding to, the port ol
V >rk-Fort was surrounded with nations
as Irldians entirely unknown to the tra
ilers of the company ; and they woulc
sEve remained in the fame state of ig
norance to this day, had they not beer
t .vakened from their reveries by the un
urmountable perseverance of a few Ca
ladian merchants, who found their
xit, through obstacles and impediment!
it tended with more danger and perfon
(l hazard than a voyage to Japan.
Since that time their affairs have un
dergone a material change in these parts,
The Canada merchants annually fend
nto the interior country, for the Indian
rade, about forty large canoes of about
our tons burthen each, a confiderabk
jart of which goods are conveyed tc
hose Indians who used to fend theii
urs down to the Hudson's Bay, by the
ndian carriers, which did not amounl
o half the quantity at present procured.
>o that by this interference of the Ca
ladian traders, it is evident that many
nore peltries are procured and import -
:d into England, and a greater quanti
y of its manufa&ures consumed than
leretofore. And when it is further
tonfidered, that these goods are of a
/cry inferior quality, which perhaps
.ould hardly find a sale elsewhere, thn
ixtenfion of the trade will appear an
>bje& not very inconftderable.
By the prosecution of this commerct
roin Canada, the Hudson's Bay com
'any found themselves eiftftually fup
)lanted on the sea-shore, the natives be
ngfupplied inland with every conve
liency for war and domeflic uses. Thi:
nduced the company, in the year 1773
o begin their inland voyages, so thai
he Canadians from Canada, and th(
Europeans from Hudson's Bay, met to
;ether, not at all to the ulterior advant
tge of the natives, wh6 by this mean:
>ecame degenerated and debauched
hroughtheexceiliveufeof spirituous li
juors, imported by these rivals in com
nerce.
PARIS, Sept. 8.
I T may be agreeable to some of -ou:
eaders to be informed of the proje&s
A'ifhes, whims, and dreams, of the gen
lemon [French anti-reVolutionifts] be
,'ondthe Rhine. For this purpose, w<
will make a few extratts from intercept
:d letters really written from Worms
Joblefice, Brussels, Mons, Ath, &c. &c
o their good friends of the clergy, th<
lobility, and the old government. The)
ire as follow :
" The coalition of sovereigns armec
: or thefupport of the interests, and foi
he restoration of the rights of royalty
is definitively agreed upon.—
she means of executing their refolu
tions have been concerted between th<
iingsof Spain, England, Prussia, Swe
ien, Sardinia, the emperor, the Germar
:le£lors, the German princes, the Dutcl
ftadtholder, and the exiled French prill
:es and chiefs."
" Twenty thousand Pruflians are upor
the march ; whose apparent deftmatior
is for Liege—The Austrian troops ar<
coming in from all quarters to the can
tons and to the frontiers—The king oi
Sweden is on his march with thirt)
thousand men—he is to be generaliflimc
»f the army,—Five hundred chariots
laden with ammunition and weapons oi
war, are arrived at Luxembourg—Fif
teen thousand life-guards men have mel
at Worms and Coblence ; also one
thousand gentlemen from Aitvergne
Numb. 12.
ivith their horses, baggage nnd accou
rements ; also two hundred Limoufins
tre marching from the fame plai e—The
Bretons are coming in from Jersey—
The British fleet is divided into two
quadrons, the one to rendezvous at
3 lymouth, the other at Portsmouth—
I'he Spanish fleet is in complete readi
iefs—The preparations in Savoy goon
re.ry slowly, but are very considerable."
" Orders are given to invade Franca
:arly in September—in the mean time
in English squadron will block up the
rarbour of Brest; another will form a
unction with a Spanish fqriadron, and
jrocced to French St. Domingo to open
he ports of that island."—'• As no re
iftancecanbe made to such a union of
llrength, the army will be able to pene
rate into the heart of the kingdom
(vithout linking a (troke. The firft
tep will be to dil'arm all soldiers that
jretend to be citizens, and all citizens
hat pretend to be loldiers."
" it may be expetied that the united
forces will getpolfeflion of Paris about
:he 4th of OtloDer—The king wiil then
je re-instated on his throne, with all
:hofe prerogatives which support his au
;uft title; except that (ome small depend
:nce shall be retained upon the counsels
if the princes, his brothers, and the
irince of Conde."
" The national aflembly (hall be dif
olved—its members, abient or present,
hall receive ientence of perpetual im
irilomnent—thole among them who
were of the noblejje shall be degraded—•
uchof them, without titles, as were in
eality attached to the old government
hall be ennobled—The bifliops and cu
ates that fubfo ibed the ne\y conftjtjj
ion are to be Ihut up in their colleges.
The faithful clergy to be re-instated in
heir places, with a benefice—The par
iament to be restored with some irtodi
ications, and purged of all weak or
uifaithful members."
" To give liability to this renovated
nonarchy in France, and to extend the
idvantages of this form of government,
he power of the nation shall be exerted
o destroy all the republics exifting—lt
nightbepropofed, however, condition
illy, to retain the republics of Swit
:erland and Venice. As to Holland,
t would fecm belt to erect it into a
kingdom for the husband of the prin
:els of Orange—With the addition of
he Austrian Netherlands Holland
would make a pretty kingdom enough,
irabant. with a few of the neighbor
ing margraviates, might be given to the
ting of Prussia, in exchange for Silesia.
This would make a kingdom for the
luke of Yftrk, the king of Prussia's fon
n-law.
The Milanese, the States of Genoa,
ind the small republics of Italy, might
ie thrown into one kingdom, under the
name of the kingdom of Liguria. The
(land of Corsica should be re-annexed
:o the kingdom of Sardinia. The French
part of St. Domingo to be restored to
Spain by the assistance of fleets and the
white colonists—These fame fleets might
ifterwards go and take pollcflion of the
LJnited States of America, which, when
formed into a kingdom, would be very
acceptable to one of the sons of the king
as Great-Britain."—
The means of executing all these pro
jects would no doubt correspond with
the convenience of the arrangements.
[Gazette Univcrfclle.~\
LONDON, Sept. e6.
WE cannot agree with Mr. Paine
in considering this country as destitute
of a constitution. A constitution we
cettainly have, and excellent in theory,
but what do we behold in its prattice ?
Corruption and undue influence ap
pearing in a thousand horrid forms
Political honesty made a jest of by men
in office ; two thirds of the people ex
cluded from any (hare in the choice oftpVcfeiUativcs ; and general election,
i nftead of being an *xertion of the na
t ional virtue,, a fignai. for the introduc
tion of bribery, perjury, drunkennels,
riot, and every vice that can taint the
morals of the people. The long dura
tion of parliaments is matter, too, of se
rious complaint; but.unlcfs the manner
of eiefting be amended, the frequency
of ele&ions would only be to curse the
nation with a more frequent repetition
of the mod horrid and flagitious prac
tices. These things, and many more
that might be mentioned, must undergc
a reformation, if we would avoid the
very lowest depth of public degeneracy,
and its unavoidable consequenceS, im
pending ruin and deftrufclion;
It requires no uncommon degree o(
forefight tp perceivc that the revolution
now accomplished in France will force
us into a leform, from motives of the
rnoft cogent and convincing kind, anei
which will come home to the feelings
of every individual, namely, thole o!
interest—the interest, not of a few, but
of all. The I'"ranch have the honed)
and courage to call into actual exercise
those excellent principles, which oui
conflitution docs, indeed, present to u:
in theory, but of which our domeftie
politics, as long as it continues, will
prevent the praflice. They have ex
tended the right of election to its ut
most poflible limits—their representa
tives are to fit no longer than two year:
—they have endeavored to check am
bition in its career, and to cut up ever)
species of undue influence by the root!
have cancelled all inviduoui
diftintlions on account of religion ; anc
there scarcely can exist a doubt thai
they will, in a very short time, annihi
late that enormous load of debt ir
which the pride and extravagance o
former kings and minifteis had invol
ved them.
Let us carrv our view forward tc
what will probably be the comparativ<
situation of France and England in the
course of a few years. — The formej
eased of her taxes, enabling her mer
chants and manufacturers to carry th<
produce of their industry and ingenui
ty to every foreign market on thi
cheaneft terms —holding sacred th<
rights of conscience as well as property
— .1.: nitting to the privileges ot citizen
all men of ail nations and religions—
opening her fofteiing bosom as a nur
fery for genius, and a refuge from even
species ot oppreflidn. In a word, hold
ing ou every poflible inducement tc
the p<- pie of other countries to com:
and participate in the bjeffings of peace
and plenty —l.berty and virtue.
Shall we contrail the atlual fituatioi
of England with that of France—W<
cannot —the pift' ie is 'oo gloomy t<
be realized—we too must have a revo
lution, not in the principles but in the
practice of our conflitution. —Althougl
we shall be the firftto feel the beneficia
effects of the reform in France, the;
will not be confined to this couatrv
Connected as the world now is, by tin
ties of commercial intercourle, the;
may be considered as one society, ant
united in one univerlal interest, so tha
whatever promotes the benefit of a par
■will n.ce(Tardy extend to the whole
and the mcafures which one nat ion find
by experience to be conducive to it
welfare, will of course be adopted b;
the reft. What a pleasing profpec
here opens upon the mind Go on ge
nerous and enlightened peoples, and i
your new charter of government fhouU
in any instance be found erroneous, yoi
have abiHty and wisdom to correct the
crrof. N&tvrtil en'iviics ! detestable *dca
Natural neighbors ought to be natura
friends—With you may we fpeedil;
associate for preserving the peace anc
freedom of all mankind; and may one
nation and another be continually ad
ded to the compact, and create a vortej
of love and concord, which shall attrac
and involve all God's rational off
spring !
Sept. 26. Strange as it may seem, Mr
Burke's book against the revolution ir
France is likely to operate confiderabl)
in favor of IVurrcn Hastings, late go
vernor of Bengal, now under impeach
ment for mal-conduft in India A gen
tleman who has passed about twe
years in Franc :, and is just returnee
from that country, having read Mi.
Burke's book at his return, declarec
that matters were so exaggerate* anc
rnifreprefonted in it, that he must to,
the future '.lUte conliderably of his foi
ner wonted confidencc in what Mr.
Burke had, forrie time iince, so forcibfy
jrged relpefting the unparalleled enor
mities perpetrated by Mr. Haftmgs in
;he East-Indies. Another gentleman,
whi> was present when this observation
was made, said, that from a long reii
dence in Ihdia, to his knowledge, all
that Mr. Burke had brought forward in
parti anient, in the impeachment of Mr.
Mailings, was so heightened and over
charged, that he could not help fufpedt
ing, that the " Refleftionson the Revo
lution in France" must appear to com
petent judges to be no better than a po
litical romance.
EUROPEAN STATE OF POLITICS.
The emperor and the king of Prussia
ire said to have met about something,
3ut no one can clearly tell what ; they
■nay, or may not have conversed con
cerning France ; but whatever they
may intend, it is to be trusted that lit
tle mifchief to the cause of liberty, in
an age like the present, can enlue,
againfl the energy of an unanimous peo
ple, which as advocates for a difFerent
form of government from that which they
lately experienced, the French nation
certainly are—for if ablolute monarchs
be permitted to suggest by what form 2
neighboring kingdom fha.ll be govern
sd, little in favor of the people can be
expected. Imperfect as the new con
(litution at present may be, the people
sf France have now fufficient materials
with which to workout their own hap
piness, without the interference of fur
routiding nations ; and we will hope
there is too much virtue in Europe, tc
luffer such an officious affiftauce.
The PAPAL STATES of ITALY
Have lately difcovcrd flrong symptom:
sf discontent; and the mifchicf of it is
bis holiness has no power to oppose
against any advances that may be made
upon his ancient prerogatives, but the
artillery of anathema, which of late
years has been discovered to be very
barmlefs in its effects.
POLAND
Has yet met with no interruption
in its happy revolution : the new wheels
which have been inserted into the ma
chinery of its constitution, have been
put in motion, and found to work well
and harmoniously with the whole.—
Neighboring despotism a fie th to frown,
jut its frowns are despised ; though
much remains at some future time to be
done for the Poles. The people at large
are certainly much happier circum
stanced than they were, and the nobili
ty not less so. Comparative liberty ha:
aeen given, without licentiousness hav
ing been encouraged.
RUSSIA
Has begun to fulfil her terms witl
the Porte, and the peace, at length, eftta
:>lifhedbetween these violent toes, pro
tnifes to be one of some continuation.
TURKEY
Having temporally disengaged itfel
from its unfuccefsful conflict in Europe
tinds its Aiiatic poffellions in a greai
Ferment ; but having now leisure tc
mend to them, it is not supposed frorr
the sanguinary mode in which the coyri
if Conflantinople proceeds in cases ol
-ebellion, that any loss of territory on
hat quarter will be the consequence.
PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, Decembers-
Petitions were read from Joseph Bird
Ebenezer Brooks, BurrGiibert, and Jo
nathan Houghton, refpeftively praying
compcnfation for wounas received oi
injuries sustained, during the late war.
A petition of Sarah Parker, of MafTa
chufctts, praying relief for the support
as herfelf and a large family of children:
being the widow and orphans of lieute
nant colonel Moses Parker, wounded in
the battle of Charleftown, in June 1775.
and afterwards died of his wounds in
Boston jail.—The above were all re
ferred to the Secretary at War.
A memorial was read from the dis
tillers of spirits in New-Port, Rhode-
Island, complaining of the operatior
sf an ast palfed at the last leffion oi
Congress, imposing a duty on fpir.it:
distilled within the United States, anc
praying a revision and amendment ol
;he said law—Referred to the Secreta
ry of the Treasury.
A petition from John D. Msrcier,
ate a Canadian relident, praying com
pensation for lolfes sustained in conle
quence of his adherence to the Ameri
can cause, during the war.—Reteriec
to the committee tp wljom was referred
:he petitions of certain Canadian relu
?ees on a similar occasion.
According to the order of the day, the
-louse then teiolved itfelt into a commit
tee of the whole on the bill making ap
propriations for the support of govern
ment for the year 1792, Mr. Muhlen
3erg in the chair—after some time (pent
n considering the bill, Mr. Muhlenberg
eported the fame with amendments,
which were twice read, agreed to, and
he bill with tire amendments re-commit
:ed to Mr. Laurance, Mr. Baldwin, and
Vlr. Afhe.
The before the* House
1 letter from the Secretary of the Trca
ury, accompanying his report on the
"übjeft of manufactures, made in obe
dience to an order of the House, of Ja
mary 15, 1790 —Read and ordered to
ie on the table.
The Speaker likewise laid before the
House a letter from the Treasurer o!
he United States, with his account ol
-cceipts and expenditures 6f public mo
ley from July ill to September 30, 1791
—Read and ordered to lie on the table.
Adjourned.
Tuesday, Dec. 6.
Petitions of John Wilson, of Benja
nin Keefe, and of Samuel Gibbs, were
ead, praying compenlation for lervices,
See. rendered in the late war—The firfl
-eferred to the Secretary of the Trea
sury, the two latter to the Secretary al
War.
Mr. Benfon called up the motion
which he had laid on the table yefter
iay ; and after some debate, the fol
owing resolution was agreed to.
Resolved, That Mr. Benfon, Mr.
jerry, and Mr. Smith (S. C.) be ap
pointed a committee on the part of this
louse, jointly with such committee as
hall be appointed on the part of the
Senate, to consider and report to Con
gress the manner for car
ving into effett the resolution of the
Jnited States in Congress aHembled ol
he 7th of August, 1783, directing that
an equestrian statue of General Wafh
ngton should be erected.
Ordered, That the clerk of the houfc
lo acquaint the Senate therewith.
The three following motions beint
everally made and seconded, to wit :
First—That a committee be appoint
"d to examine and report upon the ftat<
)f the treasury department; and thai
uch committee be appointed on th{
econd Monday after the meeting 01
Congress in every fellion.
Second—That it shall be the duty ol
he Secretary of the Treasury to report
o this house, on the third Monday oi
:very annual fellion of Congress, a re
;ular statement and account of the re
xipts and expenditures of all public
noney for the preceding year, as far as
he Idme can be then aicertained, and
s soon thereafter as circumstances will
>ermit, of luch receipts and expendi
ures as cannot be fpecitied in the firft
latement.
Third—That within the month of
January in each year, if Congress shall
>e then in fellion, or if not then in
effion, within the fir ft v/eek of each fuc
eeaing fellion, the Secretary of the
freafury shall lay before the House of
leprefentatives an accurate statement
>f receipts and expenditures down to
he laftday of the month of December
immediately preceding, including the
aid day, in which statement shall be
liltinguifhed the expenditures which
all under each head of appropriation,
nd shall be (hewn the lums, if any,
remain unexpended of such ap
iropriations. And that a committee
>e thereupon forthwith appointed to
examine the said statement and re
>ort concerning the fame to the house,
nd that this be conlidered as a ftand
ng order.
Ordered, That the said motions be
eferred to Mr. Gerry, Mr. Dayton,
ind Mr. Barnwell ; that they do ex
tmine the matter thereof, and report the
ame, with their opinion thereupon, to
he house.
Agreeable to the order of the da)
he house resolved itfelf into a cemmittes
;>f .she whole on the bill for, establishing
:he . poft-office and post-roads within
the United States, and after some time
[pent thereon, the committee rose, and
dked leave to fit again to-morrow.
Mr. Laurance, from the committee
to whom was recommitted the bill ma
king appropriations for the support of
government for the year 1792, reported
in amendatory bill, which was read the
firft time. Adjourned.
PHILADELPHIA,
December 8.
Extraß of a letter from Ncw-Jerfry, Dec. 5.
" Too much cannot be said in favour of that po
icy which is beginingto turn the attention of this
Tiate towards manufactures. We ihall not only,
jy an adherence to this principle, add to the
wealth of new Jcrfey, but shall work a reform in
he morals of a very great part of our citizens.
Poverty is generally attended with a propenfityto
vicious practices, but if we t2ke away the cause of
■rice there can be little doubt that the ufuaieffe<3»
will of them fclves soon cease. A life of industry
s generally a life of virtue, but so great a propor
ion of the foil of Jersey is barren and unthrifty
hat even induilry is but partially rewarded; and
t is well know n the greater of the nett pro
luce of our labour has ever centered in New York
ind Pennsylvania, as having no foreign trade of
)ur own. It therefore becomes rhe duty of those
:wo opulent fitter Hates to take us by the hand, in
he infancy of our great undertaking, and as they
lave ever rendered abortive all our attempts to bs
:ome a mercantile people, now is the time ibrthem
:o exert their influence in constituting us a manu
a&uring people. No situation can be better
:Ulated by nature for this purpose than NeW-Jer
ey. The distances from any spot whatever within
he state to the several landings are short, and w»
ibound in rivers, which, tho' not navigable at pre
~ent, may at a moderate expcnce be cleared of ob«»
Iru&ions, so as to convey the produce of our ma
iufa<slories to the commercial cities of other states,
without the expence incident to land carnage.
The inhabitants are naturally hardy and laborious,
ind when they find themselves relieved from pay
ng a considerable part of the taxes of New- , ork
md Pennsylvania, and have some mode of turning
he product of their inauftry to account, in lieu of
:ommerce, there can be little doubt but they will
exhibit a more refpe&able figure than ever in the
jreat family of the United States. Perhaps there
ire few parts of the world that can equal New
ferfey in the quality of its iron-ore; and the quan
ities of this mineral are absolutely inexhaustible.
mmenfe parcels of it are fold every day to New
ingland people at about half a dollar per ton; the
>ur chafe being made with hollow ware, nails,
pades, axes &c which are provioufly wrought out
>f this very ore. This is a proof of the necefiity of
tftiftftihTrig more iron works amotigH'us : one
rreat ftcp to which would be the encouragement
)f canal navigation thro'the State. Perhaps it is a
ruth little known that a few thousand* pounds
would open a navigation for boats of 5 tons
)urthen from the Delaware, near Trenton, to
Brunfwick, ©n the Raritan.'
A veflel arrived a few davs ago in Hampton
road, Virginia, from Lisbon, which place Ihe
left the latter end of September, and biings ac
counts that all {hips bound to Lisbon, having pas
sengers on board, if the bill of health does not
defciibe them, and what bufinels they have come
on, the ship will be refufed entry, and mud lay
quarentine, and afterwards undergo an examina
tion—And that there will be one of the worst
vintages in Portugal this season thai erer was
known, owing to the great drought, there having
been no rain for upwards of fix months, and the
warmest summer ever remembered by people ot
in old age.
ExtraSl of a Utter from Nantz, September 8.
44 I fend you a final! packet of newspapers by
which you will fee among other things, th t the
:omplete establishment of the new French gov
'rnmertt will be attended with a reform of the
Catholic,church in Italy, or, in other words with
in entire loss of what little influence the preju
dices of people had left it ; so that the Holy Fa
ther has a profpett of retaining only hisfpiritual*
without those more pleasing temporal emo
uments, for polfeffing of which the other branch
bufintf has always been made the pretext. •
Ihe present Pope Pius the sixth is in a very auk
ward situation. His fubjefts lee plainly that bis
politics are ruinous, the church is in a tottering
condition, and his prerogatives every day m ° re
ind more abridged : and our accounts lav, that
he people in Rome are beginning to recollect
he antient prophecy, that undei the Popes of the
ur-name of Sextus, [the sixth] the city ihoultf
ilways fuffer some unfortunate revoluti n,
Simper fib Sextis perdita Roma suit.
A remarkable paper was some time ago pa -
d upon the statue of Pafquin in the center o
iorne, of which the following is a translation -
HOLY FATHER,
In your late lying edict, styled the Royal Ma
lifefto, you have the effrontery to call thole per
ons traitors, who have dared to abet the cau e o
he friends of liberty. How can you clear your
elf of this charge ?—You would not have pl
umed to excommunicate the French nation ia
K>u % not vainly imagined that they woul oon
iC laid prostrate at your feet, in chains but it is
:o no purpose that superstition and P er jj?!7 aiT
brought in to the aid of tyranny. Theeoi ce o
iberty is established on a sure foundation, anthe SfForts 6f fluves Can avail nothing wall:
of adamant.—Father of the faithful,'why do vou
contpire ar.ainfi your children-repent speedily
Of this mortal iin —go to the country where lib
erty has. taken deep root, and thus address the
J.ench nation, whom you have basely wrong
ed—" 1 come not to renew my claim of forma
usurpations, nor to preach againJl religious tolerati
on ' rather come to bejlcw mybenedißion upon t/ia■
Evangelical Conjlitution, the fi.Jl principle of whid
is, that mankind are brethren—i tramfle the Tri
ple Dwdm under my feet with contempt and indig
nation—l do acknowledge my Kingdom not to he oj
i/us world, and 1 promise henceforward tofiew my
felf tke true Vicar of the God of peace and good
ness." —Pope Pius the sixth, by making and ad
hering to this declaration, you will be one of the
; reatefl of men —but, remember, an opposite
condu£l will make you the lafl of the Roman Pon
tiffs !"
, The General Afiembly of the state of Connec
ticut, at their late teflion, held on the second
TUurfday of G&ober at „New-Haven, palled' an
adt for securing equal right* and privileges to chri
ilians of every denomination, within their jurif
oidlVon. In this ast, religious liberty is so fai
extended, that any petfon, a member of the com
monwealth, and actually belonging to any church
or religioys society within the fame, wishing to
leave such society and become a member of lorne
other, ihjll be at liberty so to do, with an exemp
tion from being taxed for the future support of the
foeietv he may have left. Ail separating churches
©r societies are al'owed, by the fame att, to exer
xife the ufira) powers tor ttie lupport of miniilers,
ere£l,ng And repairing buildings, and ether mat
ter*, as occasion may require.
[The following Epigram was written under the
EqueHrun statue of Louis XV. at Paris j
where the figures ot juOice, piudence, foiti
tude, and oher virtues, were reprefentcd at
the foo: of the pedestal.]
0 belie fiatue I 0 beau pedejlal!
La Virtue a pud, et La Vicc a c/ieval!
[Paraphrase on the Foregoing.]
Hail charming fiatue, form'd with art divine!
And hail, thou work, this pedestal as fine !
How aptly here the carvei's art displays
The path that Louis takes to me:it praile —
High 011 the stately horse is Baseness (hown,
While trampled under foot—the Virtues groan !
On the present fiate of Religion in Scotland.
[From " French letters, dedicated to the
National Affemoly."^
TILL within these few years.- the inhabitants
of ail the Towns, except during the hours of pub
lic worthip, kept themielves elolely pent up in
fhtir chambers, and by indolence, (lander and
prayer, fan&itied. as they ijna ; mil, that sac red
day, Sunday. Except while walking to church,
a itiilnels pervaded the streets, like the dead ot
the night: at times interrupted, and rendered
more solemn by the linging ol bells and the sing
ing ot psalms
The articles of faith at present prevailing in
Scotland were drawn up and eOabiifhed in the
midtl of a civil wai, during a period of grols
fcmaticif.n and barbarity ; they are, by v confe
rence, firongly marked with ablurdity. Their
dottunes, of aMbhue decrees, and of arbitrary
election of si 1 :rs ; of their conversion by the
ijrjcfifhbN impa) grace ; of the neceflity of
human a'-iiom , of the trinity and -fat:sfa£tion j
are - ert ■ , the grohefts insults on the under
liandiiii. A these were, what they never will
be, made a luie ot a£tion, they would com
pletely. Icvl I all ditiindion between virtue and
vice, and op.n a do r to the greatest piofligacy.
Where the clergy deal in pr«found myQeries
and p-each abfuiditv, the people mufl always be
; and ic-noiance is a poweiful ingredi
ent in faiiaiieifii).
A branch of ecclefiaOical power usurped by
P; iefis, the moO dan?'* ous ever eftabiithtd a
mong men, is, I»• [>p»1, (or the lionour of Scot
land, grea.tly limtedm ihat kingdom, that is, the
power oi ol the orthodox) of opinions,
and of condemning and puinftnrig herely. This
)sol<i cxjcroaclua .ni on the prerogative ot omnil
. ciencc, has, beyond all companion, produced
rnore mi&hiei and mitery to man than the mofl
wickcd ol all his invenuons. It has dilgraceH a
religion of peace, by rendering it a lource of con
tention ; it has dtftroyed /he bleilings ot free
dom, by rendennt; realcn ltlelf a curie, ana in
every chriflian coun'jy u has led men to imbrue
their hands 111 each otliei's blood. The abuiej
ajid cruelties to .which this dangerous power has
been applied, will be read and contemplatec
with horror, as long as the world endure :
fp uniformly pernicious have been its etfetts, that
according to the {late in which this single powei
is left, a nation is either prosperous and happy
01 slavish and miserable.
It is ftiange, that in Great-Britain, the favorite
reficjence offcienceand liberty, the lame tolemr
farce, in defence of fytlems, which heretotore
disgraced the declining cause Paganilm, (houlc
continue to be acted at the dole ol the eighteentt
century. '1 he prcudices of the people are thf
demagogue's lupport, <jud their applauie is the
grois nu ; riment by which his vanity is fed.
By the jurifdittion of the Scots clergy over the
<2o£lrioes of their brethren, the best ot men are
-brought under the power of the worst. By per
.petuating the errors of a barbarous system, l
men of education and good fcnle are
with the jt\igton of their country. It will al
ways be as difficult for the human mind to sep
arate true religion from theunfeemly garb the i!
made to wear, as to diftinguiih a venerable char
after under a ludicrous drefc. In Scotland,
t.iere.ore, men of education and good ferife be
gin, almoH wholly, (o abaridon public woifhip,
which enthuiiafm has rendered ridiculous ; and
to defpiic thole doctrines, the ablurdity of which
has {hocked their understandings. To luppofe
that a man of enquiry in Scotland pays any re
gairl to revelation, will hardly be deemed a
Compliment. Jo presume that he believes the
orthodox opinions of the ft litter clergy will It
received as the greatell infiilt to his underhand
nig. Many individuals of this class, therefore,
launch into the dark and joylcfs depths of athc
li'n , a system, the principles of which are toe
wild and uncertain to prove an adequate luppori
ot virtue. But the generality of the men oi
fortune,, poflefiing little thought, and less erudi
tion, content themlelves with indulging an un
retrained licence ot behaviour : they ridicule the
lyftems of their country, without fubflituting ir
fheii room any sober rules for. the direction o!
life. In a word, the etlabhfhed faith of the
Scots church is as finccrcly delpifed among tht
higher ranks, as among the interior orders it i:
implicitly received. The coi^lequencesof those
extremes are pernicious to both. The one claf:
flies from religion with disgust ; the other del"
ailei molality as urmecellaiy. The errors o!
Doth arile from the lame cauie, an obftinaie ad
lerence of the fanatical clergy to the dogmas o'
in antiquated creed, which does not enforce tfr«
obligations ot virtde r nor accommodate itfel/ tc
he rational ideas of an enlightened age.
There has been lately publifned from the Pref
)f C'hilds and Swaine, in New York, a volume o
sermons, by the Rev. Dr WILLIAM LINN
Mae of the miniiters of the Reformed Dutch Church
n that city. One peculiar excellence obfervabh
n thole lermons, is, their being of such a com
>lcxion as to suit the ideas of every denominatior
)f Christians ; the author having carefully avoid
:d those controverted points in divinity, the dif
:uflion of which might indeed have proved accep
able to the furious zealot, but would by nb mean:
lave suited the taste of the cool and dii'paffionatt
notaries of real religion ; a defcriptipn of men
vhich. to the honour of the present age be il
"aid, are rapidly gaining ground in the world
The author takes for the iubjedl of every fermor
he more Unking features of some chara&er ir
acred history, worthy of imitation, and from
hence deduces iuch practical observations and ad
rice, as at once meliorate the heart and improve
he understanding. The language of these fer
110ns is iimple and easy ; and altho' the work it
lot unprecedented in refpedt of plan, it will noi
>n that account be the less acceptable to all per
"oiis of taste and discernment, that may afford it 2
eading.—Thefe f. rmons are for sale, in this city
>y Mr. Dobfon, Second-ltreet, and at No. 23c
Htigh ilreet.
The Senate and Mouse of Representatives o;
his State met at the State Houfc in this city or
Tuesday laifc.
The Assumption of the State Debts, (fays a
paper of the 2d inllant) was amOngfl
he wisest meaiures of the late Congrefsj ever
hose who formerly thought it an exceptionable
i£t now approve of it, hecaufe they have leer
he good cor.lequences flowing from it, and they
low j .n with its former advocates in lamenting
hat the opposition made to it was the cause oi
ts being let 1 incomplete.. Had the sum been
iflTumed which was originally reported by the
Secretary of the Treafuiy, as the amount of the
lebts of the several Hates, nothing more tliwr
uftice would have been done, and some time
.vould have been saved to the present Congress
,vho will undoubtedly be disposed to follow the
iberal and just example of their predecelfors
tnd complea: that, which peculiar circumttance;
eft unfini(lied on a former occasion.
" A new whim (fays an extract of a lettci
iom PrufTia, 111 a French paper) has leizedou:
fCing. He has made a catechism for all hi:
übje&s, and compels them all, even the olficei:
)f the army, to go regularly to church to heai
crmons. Corpoial puniihrnem is by law in
litied upon any perion who fball twice, lucctl
ively, punt goiug to chuich. Would to heavei
hat all kings may.he, in like manner, lllumina
ed with the spirit of religious perfecution —Re-
solutions would foonfollow every where."
A late French paper has the following para
jraph ;—Marfeilics,rvU'. irlt 25. <k Ihe Bui
>f the author ot the hijiory oj th: Two bidic.
Abbe Raynal) haJ for fo.ne years beer
lung up in the hall where thcjrtends to the con
flituticn held theii meetings. .It was a piece o
rcfpetl which they thought due to genius anc
Dhilofophy.—But no sooner were they informec
3fthe Abbe's " Address to the National As
fembly" and its ariftocratical tendency, than the)
ordered it to be taken down, with some marki
jf contempt, and carrried to the hospital of St.
Lazarus, where idiots and madmen are kepi
ronfined. To add the more to the solemnity ol
Ihe removal of the Bust, it was carried in the
fame covered cart in which are uluall)
;onveyed to the holpital.
[ The following paragraphs appeared in L c Patri
ote Francois, a newspaper oj Sept. 8, printu
at Paris.]
44 Late advices from the continent ot INortr
America fay, thatJugar, made fiom the juice ol
ihe maple tree (with w inch that continent
is like to fupenede entirely the use ot that article
imported from the islands. A gentleman of the
•ditor's acquaintance has received a loaf of the
m iple sugar from Philadelphia, in every refpefl
equal to that prgduced ffom die tugar cane, and
unpollible to be diflinguifiied one from the other
There are, we are told, ft vera I refpeftable <raa
ker houles in London, that confine themfeivf
wholly to this lort of sugar; and there is eve
ry. reason to hope, ti t in a few years Ellropi
will no longer !;e under u necefiity or ufi'.ig tiu
Ipecies of the commodity above mentioned, whic!
■s extorted from the blood and Iweat of mifera
bit Haves."
A prejudice has hitherto prevailed, on t!ii
ide ol the Atlanti , that the hfe of man is of
horter duration in America than in Europe
Jut the natives of the firft mentioned count 1 ,
to wear the marks of age at tliiily, am
;hat the proportion of those that die in their in
Fancy is much larger than in Europe — Al! thefi
volitions are found to be falfe; on the contrary
it has been recently discovered from careful ob
fervations, and an infpe<Sion into the molt accti
rate bids of mortality, that human life is of Ion,;
■r duration in America, and less expoled to tin
illaults of disease, thafi in Europe. —The tabic
of longevity ought to be the universal touchfiom
sf Governments. Thcfe are the unerring scale b'
■vhich we may compute the degrees of vice o
• inue, the perfection or the degradation of th
luman race.—ln applying this principle to tb
l/bited States, we may fee the realdn why life i
longer there than clfewhere. To the natural ad
vantages of their foil and climate, they add th
jlelfings of liberty to a degree unknown in thi
)1J world, and in this liberty is foCirid the grea
pr.nciple of health.—(t is proved beyond contra
iiftion, from a great number of accounts in ou
jofleflio'n, that in the eaflern Rates of Ameiica
indeven in those of the middle parts, one perfoi
jut ot every ten ihat are boi n, reaches the age o
:ightyyears; whereas at Breflaw, in Germany
he healthiest spot in Europe, and mod likes
rom us climate and situation to be favorable n
ong life, ic has been proved from numherlef
Afervations, that not more than one person ii
Jiirty reaches the age of eighty.
1 ill very lately, the American* of the Unitci
states have been reproached in this country so
vantof national fidelity in dilcharging their pub
ic debt owing to France. We have now in ou
lands the molt complete and authentic tables o
he genera! debt of the United States; and i
vould not he im proper to inform the financiers o
mrope, and such as speculate in the Americai
unds, that the aggregate of the debt of the Unitei
itatcs, conf/itutes no more than the yearly tnterej
j the national debt paid in England or France, Ii
act, since the reparation of the United Staies from
ingland, they have prospered beyond belief
t heir exports are increased almoll one third;
nanufaftories are every where established, am
)id fair to llourilh, ecjual to any in Europe. —
Mew slates are forming in the immense regior
reyond the Alleghany, called the empire ofth,
vjl. In the nature of things, this empire mul!
oon become powerful; and there, some Peter
e hermit, will, in time, preach up new cru
ades to unfetter the enslaved nations of Mexict
iqd Peru!
To form a just idea of the importance of thi
American empire, we, in France, mull transfe
jurfelves beyond the age in which our lot is call
(nthe imdll of their rude forefls we may thei
urvey not, perhaps, towns and cities at even
lep we take, bat beautiful farms and rural fct
letnents, from New-Hampshire to Quito, ii
Peru. We will image to ourfelyes happiness
he attendant of industry ; beauty, the poffeflioi
ofthefjir daughters of nature; liberty andgoof
morals making laws and government almoll tin
neceflary ; and the bleflings of toleration in tht
place of a bloody inquisition—we may there, b)
anticipation, on lome joyous feflive day, behoic
Peruvians, Mexicans, the free Americans, an<
the French emigrants to America, meeting toi;e
mcr, embracing each other like brethren, curfin:
the memory of tyrants, and extolling the reign o
Liberty, which mullgradually reflore every thin;
in this world to its former universal harmony—
But the Peruvian and Mexican mines, and tht
Haves therein— what will be their fate in theit
days of futuiity —We anlwer, the mines wil
be fliut r the Haves will be the brethren of thei
mailers, having firfl made themselves worthy tt
be'Juch, bv acquiring their knowledge and thei
cultoms and habits of life—But (you will
how will the world do without that gold whicl
avarice has in all ages found so neceflary ?—Wt
answer, that the precious rrittals, even at this day ar
of very little value, vnlejs they are dug out of th
bowels of the earth by the hands of fettered Jlaves -
a people really fiee will never want the men
fizjis of wealth to facilitate the exchange of mer
chandize. Gold has everferved the purpoles o
despotism and tyranny, rather than of virtue am
libeity ; and liberty can at any time find ou
agents of commerce of a less dangerous nature
as a lubflitute for gold and silver.
The Speculates of the present day hardly im
agine that two revolutions are at this moment pre
paiing in the new world, which lhall totally
change both the ideas and commerce of the old
A channel of communication will be opened be
twixt twoiinmenfe ocea. s [at the Iflhmus of
Darien] and the mines of Peru will be abandon
ed—a number of other (lupendous events will
moll certainly follow, from the enterprizing
character of the people and prevalent opinions
in America. —Reader, would you wilh to know
the cause of them ? —Read, then, the following
passage out of Trijlram Shandy, and be convinc
ed : —" Nature, like a kind mother, has Jhewn thf
fame good will to all her offspring. In dijlnbut
ng her favoursfhe has been Jo extremely solicitous
for equality of condition, that Jhe has placed alrtoji
all the world, in iff peel to abilities, on the fame foot
ing. We may here and there indeed, meet with m-
Jlances of J'uperior genius but tajte the world at |
targe, Into every rank of men, and yen tuil'
find impartially jcattered among them, good Jenfe,
found underJiariding, nnrt a JuJJiciency of natural
knowledge to guide them P'ight in whatever ,re
lates to their domejlic felicity, or the rights of man.
With us, ind'xd, in England> the cafe is different—
we are either very high or very low, —we are either
great gemujes or deplorable dunces—and with us,
extremes Are always much more common than a medi
um— From hence we may argue that the gener
al prosperity ofa nation isoniy found in a medi
ocrity or condition.—Slavery and tyranny are at
an mmenfe difance when knowledge is diffcminatt f
alike to al. Detpoutm can never steal in upon
any -nation while Jo many eyes are open to watcK
her most fee ret steps, and where the principles
di indepc ndence and equal liberty come inro the
world with every man that i* born. What is it
that has placed the whole world under the yofcrc
sf defpoiifm, bur thole two extremes of which
Sterne speaks ? —Men of Superior genius and
dj-lcernment, who commonly make an ignorant
multitude their tools, and, with ari floe rati c inso
lence, crush that part of a nation who arc the
molt ufeful to the community ! —ln America, the
European mode of clafling the several ranks of a
nation is unknown—They allow neither ofgieaf
men among them, nor men of genius, nor anf
ocrats, nor populace—and this is what is to b**
lnderftood by a PURE REPUBLIC."
The Editor bill been favoured n itb Lonutn Pa
peri to toe ycib Sept. — c fbe moji material intel
ligence from tbem is tbe fcllciving r—
PARIS, Sept. 26.
On Friday the Mayor of Puns received the foll
owing Tetter :
" Sir,
" 1 he King, touched with the inaiks of af
friVon (hewn to htm by the inhabitants us the ca
pital, and defrous of affording a new occalioiv
■or the display of .oe public joy, his Majesty has
ordered me to intorm you, that on Sunday nexc
lie wil caule the Thuiiieries and the Champs-Lli •
'- es to bj iluminated. His Majeity recommends
-o you t. take the neceflary rncafures for main
taining peace and lafetj.
(Signed) << Delessart,
ATiniJler for the Home, Department."
The Municipality accordingly forbid, as usu
al, on such occasions, the appearance of any car
riages in the streets and squares near the Thuiiie
ries, and the Champs-Eli Ices.
In the evening all the world repaired to the
rhuillexies anil the Champs-Elifees, which were
noli fancifully and superbly illuminated, and the
light concluded with the retirement of a delight.
:d and exulting populace to their several houses.
T+ie fame day the Mayor received the following
ettec from the King :
" Sir,
" I was desirous of maiking the epoch of the
:ompletion of the confticutiun, by a public fefti
»al j but the Qu-en ai:d I are, at the lame time,
attentive to the intern! of the poor, which Dial!
never be abl'ent from our hearts. We have desti
ned the futn of 50,000 livres for their reiief ; and
I thought it my duty to charge you with the dif
tribucion of this sum among the levrial fe&ions,
n propoition to their neceflities. I am persuaded,
[hat you wilfexerute this million in a manner the
most agreeable to my intentions.
(Signed) "Louis."
All these popular aits of the King and Queen
are received with infinite fitisfaftion, because
tliey are {uppofed to be voluntary ; and, nor.
■vitbrtanding the republican spirit, which to a cer
tain degree pervades not only Palis but all the
jreat towns in the kingdom, it is Hill in the pow
:r of their Majellies, and with very little trouble
ro themtelves, to secure the acclamations and the
alcllings of the people whenever they appear in
tiublic. But if they fliould attempt* any thing
• hat may (hew their profclTed adherence to the
new confutation to have been merely aflumed for
he purpose of deluliqn, the situation of the
meane.t lubjeft in the kingdom will be enviable,
-ompared with theirs.
It is currently reported here, and very confi
ntly believed, that the King, since his accep
tance of the constitution, lefufei) to receive a
packet addrefled to him by his brothers, or to
rear any verbal explanation of the conten-.s from
:h' beaier ; to whom he laid, that he could hold
jo coirefpondencc with the Princes till their re
u> 11 to Paris.
M. ae Segur, who was lately appointed ambafla
ior to Rome, will, it is said, proceed to England
:o replace M. de la Luzerne, deceased.
Every thing, is as peaceable and quiet here as
i nothing had happened ; trade is taking its ufu
sl conrfe, arid we have not the least suspicion of
any ot the powers of Europe attempting to disturb
>ur domestic tranquility. We lhal), however, be
>repared for defending ourselves, but we lhall trea;
iny attacks as tliofe of an assassin who endeavors
to disturb individual repose.
r l he Choice ofa new Marine Minister was not
declared or known yesterday.
Conformable to the decree of the National Af
"embly, two preachers yesterday informed the
Municipality of Paris, that they had formed con
tradts to enter into wedlock immediately.
LONDON, Sept 30.
So great are the advantages secured to this
;ountry by the free navigation of the Dniester,
which our late armament was equipped toefta
blifli, that the imports of naval stores from that
river only have amounted, since the cor.clufion of
the negotiation w'uh Russia, to the enormous lum
of 0,000,0001.
The Duke of York's marriage was celebrated
yesterday at Berlin. Political formalities would
have deferred it for some months, but these obfta
clej the impatience and address of a lover found
means to remove.
M. La Fayette is to succeed M. Bouille in the
command of the troops in the departments of the
Meurthe and the Moselle.The DEBTOR'S SOLILOQUY.
ALLUR'd by trust, from ihop to shop I ran,
Gaz'd at the windows deck'd with gaudy gea
Muslins, and lawns, and laces ; papers, books,
And cloths, the fineft from Britannia*s looms
Too tempting to the eye !—Much did I talk
"With that thrice happy wight, who constant stand
Musing behind the counter—-all his aim
To catch the pence of lady or of squire.
Mod things I bought, but alwaysfigh'd for more
I bought, indeed—but not one ounce of wit :
IVlark that, and mark it down to my confufion-
O credit, credit, what a cheat art thou ! ■
J paid no calh———'twas noted for a crime
By that recording hand, which waste-boo,
keeps.
Nor that alone; but cruelly transfers
To Journal, Ledger—and the Lord knows what.
Away I went ; my buyings fafely ftow'd,
"Whether on negro's head, or dray—no matter—
Soft pafs'd the joyous months that interven'd,
While yet the busy hours ran sweetly on,
While yet no 'prentice boys approach'd my door
With lectures short, but serious as the grave,
Preaching up mournful truths from beardless chir
But pay-day came at 1 art—and with it bro'
.Unnumber'd plagues and cares, ana doubts, an
fear?,
And grunts, and growls, and grumblings withoi
end,
And quirks, and quibbles, lies and fubterfuges,
Eillets and nates with compliments cut snort ;
A) e—fuch as scarcely faidyour bumbleJervant!
Whene'e I valk'd thefheets, I found no reft-
And would have met (horn'd, tail'd, an
hoof'd,)
"Old Satan's leif, than fae'd one creditor'
The knocker had no interval of pause,
And e\ery man that came, came with a dun,
And" fancy looks, and ftilf impertinence,
And heavy lowering brow, that fpc-ke no good !
What could I muTe .•'—l bundled up my duds,
Pull'd-to the door, that stood upojl a jar,
Beneath the threihold laid the landlord's key,
And at the hour when ghosts are said to walk
Mfcrth'd -fF, and left even Mofler Snip unpaid !
Blame me, ye men of cold philosophy,
That fear not flieriffs, con.'Ubles, or writs i ■
£l>me me who will—l relish not a jail,
And, be my trotters in what plight they may,
(Even tbo' my galiey -gcjkins were unfoal'd)
Still ft i.ld they bear me from rhole dull retreats
Whers want of spirit keeps the prisoner fact,
And wretches pine, and harpies turn theJtey.
Philadelphia, December 6, 1791-
STATE of NEW-JERSEY.
An ACT to incorporate the Contributors to the So
aery for ejlablijhing ujeful manufactures, andfo
the further encouragement of the said Society.
WHEREAS it is represented to this legiila
ture. that a fubfeription has been madi
for the purpose of introducing and ellablilhing use
ful manufa&ures, to an -mount which already ex
ceeds two hundred thousand dollars ; and where
as the State of New-Jersey having been deemet
by the contributors tne most suitable for carrying
the fame into effect, the aid of the legislature hai
been requeued, »n promotion of the views of thi
f.VI con ribufors; and whereas it appears to thii
]~ .e, tLat the granting of such aid will b<
con vt r o the public interest : Therefore,
led. 1 Be it enacted by the council and Ge/i
erai A/Tcmbly of this State, and it is hereby en
a&ed by the author t}' of the fame, That al
those persons who have already fubferibed, anc
who, - ng to the terms hereafter mentionec
lhal! ful r : u<s for the purpose of eftabliftiing s
c .;.y for carrying on the business of manu
factures in this stare, their fucceflors and alligns;
jfliali be and are hereby incorporated by the nami
of The Society lor ufeful manufac
tures," and by the fame name they aud their fuc
cefiori and afiigns, are hereby confiituted a bodj
politic and corporate in lav#, and fliall be able and
capable to acquire, purehafe, receive, have, hold
and enjoy, any. lands, tenements, hereditaments
gbods and chattels, of what kind or quality foe
ver, to an amount in value not exceeding four mil
lion of dollars, and the fame, or any part thereof,
to fell, grant, demise, alien and dispose of; alfi
to sue, orbefued, implead, and be impleaded, ir
courts of justice, or any other place whatever, t<
make and use a commoD feai, and the fame to al
ter and renew ac their pleasure, and also to ordain
and put in execution, such bye-laws, or
dniances, and regulations, as {hall seem necefl'an
and convenient for the government of the fair
corporation, provided the feme are not contrary t<
tfce laws and constitution of the United States, o
of this state.
And be it ena&ed by the authority aforefaid
That the original or capital stock of the said foci
etv or company fha 1 not exceed the sum of oni
million of dollars, to be employed in manufa&ur
ing or making all such commodities or articles a:
lhall not be prohibited by law, and to that end ir
purchasing such lands,' tenements, and heredita
and erecting thereupon such buildings, ant
digging and eftablifliing such canals, and doin|
fuch'ciher matters and things as fliall be needfu
for carrying on z manufactory or manufactories 0;
the said commodities or articles.
3. And be it further enabled by the authority
aforefaid. That the said corporation (hall noi
deal, nor trade, except in such articles as itfelfihal
ma lufaCture and the materials thereof, and ir
such articles as fliall be really and truly received ii
pa.mentor exchange therefor.
4 And, the more effectually to encourage ft
ufeful and beneficial an eftablilhment j Be it fur
ther enabled by the authority aforefaid, That al
the lands, tenements, hereditaments, goods ant
chatties, to the said society belonging, shall b<
and th£y aYe hereby declared to be free, and ex
empt .from all taxes, charges, and impoiition
whatsoever, under the authority of this state
whether for state or county uses ©r for any othei
afe whatfocver, Provided always, That the
exemption fhail not be construed to extend to th<
private or separate property ol any member of th<
laid corporation in h.s or her individual capacity
and as touching the lands, tenements, ani hsredi
caments of the laid society, (hall continue in lore
for the term of TEN YEARS only, after whics
term it (hall be lawful to lay such taxes for the us
of the (late upon the said lands, tenements, an;
hereaitaments, as ill all be laid upon other lands, te
nements, and hereditaments of like value, natur
or description j Provided neverthelels, that, ii
cafe the said taxes (hall be laid by way of afiel
ment, it fliall be according to a certain rate pe
cent, to be prescribed in the law laying such tax
es of the true and absolute value of the ianJs, te
nements, or hereditaments whereupon the sam
(hall be laid or aiTeiied, and (hall notextend diredl
ly or indiredly to the monies, goods or chattle
whether in polTeifion or action, or to.the profit
real or luppofed of the laiafociety.
5. And be it further enacled by the authorit
aforefaid, That all artificers or manufacturers
in the immediate of the said fjc.ety, (ha;
be free and exempt from all poll and capitatio
taxes, and taxes on their refpedltve faculties o
occupations, and from all taxes in the nature c
general afTeflments, upon their perlons, faculties 0
occupations : Provided that this (hall not be con
ftrued to exempt their property of whatfover kin
from taxes of a ipecific and definite nature, pe
quantity or per article, or according to a certai
rate per centum of the true and absolute valu
thereof.
6. And be it further enabled by the authorit
aforefaid, That the original or capital (loci
aforefaid, (hail consist of ten thousand (hares, eac
lhare being one hundred dollars 3 and that an
jerfon, co-partnerlhip or body politic, may lub
i'cribe for such number of (hares in the (lock c
he fa id company which yet remain to be sub
bribed, as he, (he or they (hall chink fit, unt
ih?. whole number of (hares fubfcriSed lhall a
nount to five hundred thousand dollar.-, after whit
it (hall be in the diftretion of the diretlorsto permi
;x not further fubferiptions, from time to tims
mdin such proportions as lhall seem to them ex
>edient, not exceeding in the whole, the laid fui
>f one million of dollars. And it (hall be lawlt
"or fubferiptions to the said (lock to be continue
n the fame manner, and under the fame dire&icn
is they have been heretofore conduced, until th
ay herein after named for the firll ele&ion 0
iredtors, after which it shall be the province 0
he said directors to regulate the manner of re
eiving further fubferiptions. And in cafe i
liould happen that the fubferiptions which ma
ie made after the palling of this a<2*. togethe
kith those made prior thereto, (liould exceed th
um, which in the judgment of the. said director
bould be fuiiicient in the (irlt instance to confti
ute the (lock of the said society, not being lei
han five hundred thousand dollars, it (hail b
awful for the said dire<slors to make a proporti
nal reduction from the number of (hares which
fter the parting of this ad, fliall have been sub
cribed by any person, co-partnerlhip, or body po
itic, so as to reduce the total amount of the sum
übferibed, to the sum by them deemed fufikien
s aforefaid, not being lels than five hund;e<
houfand dollars ; all-which, fubferiptions, mad'
rior to the laid firft election of directors, lhall b
ayable, one half in the funded fix per cent (loci
f the United States, or in three per cent (lock a
he rate of two dollars of such (lock for one, anc
he other hatl in what is commonly cailed defer
ed flock, or at the option of tlie party fubferi uin.'
uch fubferiptions may be paid for in fpecit
omputing the said fix per cent (lock at par, am
he said deferred (lock according to the prefen
alue thereof at the time of payment, which vaiui
Kail be determined by a calculation founded upw
rate of interell of fix cent per annum, durinj
he period for which the payment of intereil upoi
he said deferred (lock is lulpended j and the pay
nents for such fubferiptions as (hall be made prii l
o the full of dire&ors (hall be matfe ii
our equal parts, that is to fay, the finl within 4*
lays after the period of such firft election, the fe
ond within fix calendar months after the time 0
he firft, the third within fix calendar months as
er the time of the second, and the fourth withii
ix calendar months after the time of the thin
jayment. And such fubferiptions as (Hall be ma,'
liter the said firft election of directors, (hail b
>ayable according to such regulations as (hall hav
ieen previoufiy prescribed by the directors of th
iclety for the time being' : Provided that nothin;
leiein contained (hall prevent any fubferibin,
arty from paying, with consent of the said direc
:ors, the whole amount of his, her or their sub
cription at one payment.
7. And be it further enabled by the authorit
aforefaid, That so much of the capital flock of th
said company as may con fid of public debt, ihal
;-e placed on the books of th 3 treasury of the Uni
ted States, in the name of the said corporation
except so much thereof as may be converted inr
Hock of the Banfc of the United States 3 and tha
t (hall be lawful for the directors thereof to invei
any monies which may be received on account o
:he said capital (lock in the. purchase of such debt
»nd lrkewife to inVest both the said debt and th
nonies in (rock of the bank of the United Stares
n the name of the laid corporation j and that ii
:ither cafe the said drre€lors, on the recjueft. o
my (lock-holder, (hall grant to him a licence t
nfpedl and examine the amount of (lock whici
nay at any time (land in the name ol the fpi
:orpo ation, either on the books of the Treafur
f the United States, or on the books of the B*n]
>f the United States.
8. And be it further ena&ed, That there flial
je a yearly dividend for the firft five years imme
iiately ensuing the last day of December next, an
henceforth a half-yearly dividend, of so much o
:he profits of the said society, as to the diredior
thereof ftiali leem expedient.
9. And be it further enafled by the authorit
>forefaid, That the flock of the said focietv ma
•e invefled, secured, affiled, and transferred, ac
:urding to such rules as fliall be instituted in tha
behalf by its laws and ordinances.
ID. And be it further enabled by the authorit;
aforefaid, That there (hall be holde. an eleftior
ji dircflors cf the said corporation on the las
Monday of this present month of November, at
Trenton, in this state, which election (hall begin
between the hours of twelve and two in the after
noon of the fame day, and may be continued by
adjournment from day to day tor three days,
counting the firft as one, and may be conducted
under the fuperintendance of any three persons
whom the stockholders then arid there convened
mav, by a majority of voices, nominate for that
purpose: and there shall be holden on the fir ft
Monday in Odtober next ensuing, the said
time of the said firft election, and on the firft
Monday of each succeeding Odtober, an elc&ion
for diredtors of the laid society, at such place a.
ihail have been previously appointed tor that pur
pose by some law or ordinance of the laid lociety j
and the directors chosen ac one eledtion, shall b<
capable of serving by virtue thereof until anothet
election shall have been had j and cach stockhold
er shall be entitled to one vote in person, -or b\
attorney for each lhare he or (he may hold, bui
neither the United States, nor any date whicl:
may become a futferiber, shall be entitled to more
than one hundred votes.
ii. And be it further enacted by the authorit)
aforefaid, That at every such election thirteen di
rectors lhall be chosen by ballot, and the
so chosen lhall at the firft meeting after their elec
tion, not less than a majority of the whole num
ber being present, elect from among themfehve;
one person to be governor, and another to be deput)
governor : That any five of the directors, the go
vernor or deputy-governor being one, Hi all con
stitute a board for the tranfadtion of business, ex
cept as hereafter excepted j—but if it lhall at an;
time happen, that chere are two different or fepa
rate meetings of five or more directors each, bu
in neither of such meetings a majority of thi
whole, and the governor be present at the one, am
the deputy-governor at the other, that (hall b<
be deemed the legal board at which the governo
fhail be present; and that if it (hall happen, tha
the governor and deputy-governor are both absent
seven oi the said directors (hall constitute a boar<
for the purpose aforefaid : That no diredior fhal
receive any emolument on account of his officc
unless the fame lhall have been allowed b-y tin
itcckholdei's a; a general meeting j but the dircc
tors may appoint such officers, and afiign fuel
compenlations as they lhall think fit, not lef
than a majority of the whole number of director
being present when the fame /hall be done.
i 2. And be it further enadtcd by the authotit'
aforefaid, That there (hall be a stated meeting o
the directors of the said society at the place whicl
shall have been chosen and designated as the prin
cipal feat of the manufactories to be carried on b'
the said society on the firft Tuesday in the month
of January, April, July and Odtober, annually
but the governor, or in hrs absence or inabiliY
the deputy-governor, or in cafe of their refufal
any three directors may from time to time, b<
writing from under his or their hands, diredted t<
Lhe other directors, and left at their refpediiv*
places of abode, at least fourteen days prior to thi
time of meeting, or, by advertisement printed it
ane public Gazette of this state, and in one of thi
[>übiic Gazettes printed in the cities of Philadel
jhia and New-York refpecti velv, thirty days prio
•o the time of meeting, convene special meeting
)f the directors for the tranfadtion of business, an.
:he directors at such stated or special meeting:
lhall have power to make all by-laws, ordinances
utes and regulations, requisite for conducting tin
jH'airf. of the corporation, and to tranfadt fuel
ither business as may be nccefjary torching th<
"ame. Provided that no by-law lhall be made 01
ikercJ, nor any new manufadhry undertaken b\
iny bo3r4 of diredors, at which less than a majo'
ity of the whole number lhall be pr sent. Ana
provided further, That the stockholders lawfully
:onvened, at any general meeting, rnav alter oi
ibolifh any by-laws, rules or regulations, which
nay have been made by the director, and maj
nake and establish such by-laws, rules and regula
ions as to them lhall fVem meet y and that nc
>v-law, rule or regulation, which may have
>een abolished by the stockholders at_any genera
neeting, can bere-eftabiifhed by the diredtors; anc
urther, that no by-law, rule or regulation, whicl:
r,ay have been ordained by the laid itockholders
u a general meeting, can be altered or repeaiet.
)y the directors.
13. And be it further enadted by the authority
iforefaid, That any board of diredtors lhall hav<
>ower to call a general meeting or the stockholders
thirty days previous notice thereof in threi
public gazettes, one printed in this state, and on<
n each of the cities of Philadelphia and New
ark refpedtively ; and that each stockholder, be
ng present at any general meeting in person, o
>y attorney, shall be entitled ill ail questions am
:afes wharfoever, to one vote for each (hare fuel
tockholder may hold.
14. And be it further enadted by the authorit'
iforefaid, That every treafurcr or rafhier of th
"aid corporation shall, before nc enters on the du
ies of his office, give fufficicnt security, to the fa
isfadlion of the diredtors, in a sum not less thai
wenty thoufand^lollars.
15% And be it further enadted by the authorit
iforefaid, That at every annual meeting of th
tockholders, for the purpiefe of choosing diredtors
he diredtors shall lay before them a general ftat
)f the affairs of the company, exnibiting th
imount of its stock, debts and credits, the differ
-nt kinds of manufadlures carried on, the numbe
A persons employed in each, and their refpedtivi
:ompenfations, and an account of the profit ant
ofs. And that the stockholders mav, if the'
;hink fit, at any general meeting, eledt by ballo
sny five of their number tor the purpose of exa
fining into the state of the affairs of the said com
pany, who shall have a right of access and exa
mination to and of all the books of the said com
?any j and the said persons, or a majority o
nem, may, at any time, call a general meetinj
:^ie giving the like notice as i
iDove diredted to be given by a board of diredfor
r or the like purpose. And that the United States
?r any state which shall fubferibe for not less thai
;ne hundred shares, may appoint a commiflioner
ft'ho ihall nave a right at all times to infpedt th<
proceedings of the corporation, and the state of it
art airs, but without any authority to control: arc
tuck coramiffioner flull have the like right of ac
:efs and examination as is herein before aligned
:o the five persons who may be appointed by th<f
(tockholders.
16. 'And be it farther enabled by the authority
aforefaid, That the said corporation may be dis
solved at a general meeting specially summoned
for that purpose, provided at least three-fourthi
in value of the ftockholuers (hall be present, or re
jrefent or reprefcntod therein j and upon luch
liflolution, the directors for the tittle being, and
:he furvivoTs, and survivor of them, shall be ipj*
faElo trustees for fettling all the affairs of the said
:orporation, disposing of itseffedls, recover!ng and
saying its debts, and dividing the surplus among
the stockholders in proportion to t'nejr refpeitive
interest in the stock, unless the stockholders, at
luch general meeting, shall appoint other perlons,
no: less than nine nor more than thirteen in num
ber for such purpose, in which cafe the persons so
appointed, and the furvivoi s and survivor of them,
shall be trustees and trustee for the purpose afore
faid.
[To' be continued.]
GEORGE MEADE
HAS FOR SALE,
At his Stores on Walnut-Street Wharf,
A FEW pipes of 3 and 4 years old bids of ex
change Madeira WINE, which be il iU dif
pcjeof by the pipe, hogjhead or quarter cajk,
London market and-byears old,
Old Sherry WINE of the frjl quality, by the
hogfjead or quarter cajk.
Three and 4. years old Lijbon WINE, of a su
perior quality to <what is generally imported, by the
p;pe, quarter cajk, or larger quantity
Choice old Coniac BRANDY, by the pipe, tierce >
or larger quantity.
A few quarter chefs of firjl quality H son TE A.
He has juJ} received by the Pigtu, Loxley, mafer %
ft om London, a fen/ quarter cajks of old Madeira
WINE—And
by the brig Mercury, capt, Stevens, from Dub
lin, a few boxes of lrijh LINENS, lew priced
and well ajforted : a few bales of Red and White
FLANNELS, and J owe GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDIES of the
firjl quality, and Burlington PORKof prirr.e quality
He has also to difpoje of a quantity cj drcJJ'ed
White Oak STAVES,
He means to keep a conflant supply of Firjl Qua
lity Madeira and Lijbon WINES, and whoever
is pleased to favor him with their cujlom, may be
afjured of being well served.
He will, through the Winter ar.d Spring, buy
undressed HANDSP IKES. He is purchofinr
FLAXSEED aud BEES-WAX, and will give
the highejl Price for then:.
N. B. A few Hampers cf excellent London
PORTER and Taunton ALE, juJ} arrived and
to be difpojed cf, tf
CHARLES BITTERS,
No. 120,
South Market, near Fourth Street,
Has received from New-York, and manufa&ured
BY LOT MERKEL,
A large and General Assortment of
Muffs & Tippets, Trimmings &
Edgings,
3reat Coats, Caps, Mitts & gloves lined with Fur t
which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lowelt Prices.
OS. 4. iawt
JUST PUBLISHED,
and for (ale by
THOMAS LANG,
No. 21, Church alley ;
An Eilay on
COMMERCE and LUXURY.
R.e-printed from the London edition—Price IfSm
(O* The merit of this work will be acknow
ledges by every judicious reader. The re-publi
:ation ot it in this country, at this time, has been
advised by several enlighrened patriots. These
tyifti to promote our national commerce, on the ba
fts of agriculture and inuuftry, and free from the
base alloy of iinpofition and gaming. They set a
proper value on the conveniences and ornaments
as civilized life j but deceit that luxury which is
:he offspring of a fiivolous taile, and the mother
afprofligac), dishonesty, poverty, of number
efs private and public vices and micfortunes.
Nov. 28, Ct.e.t.
This day is Published
By CHILDS and SWAINE,
In one Volume Gftavo ;
[Price One Dollar and a half, the fma.il Edition,
and One Dollar and three quarters the large, J
THE
LAWS of the United States.
Collated with, and corredej by the' original Rolls
in the Office of the Secretary of State.
With a copious INDEX ; or
A complete DIGEST of the LAWS
(Making 56 pages :)
Executed by an eminent Law Character.
To obtain this ufeful and rieccffary Part of the
Work complete, has retarded the Publication.
This Volume comprizes the Acts of the Three
SeJJions of the firft Congress ; alfn, the Federal
Conjlitution, and the Trea'ies between the United
States and Foreign Nations--Together with an Ap
pendix, containing the Declaration of Independ
ence, and sundry Ordinances and Refolvet of Con
gress under the Confederation.
Sold by Childs and Siuaine, No. 239, High-
Jlreet, Thomas Dobfon, Joseph Crukjhank, and
Robert Campbell, Fhi/ade'phia.
OElober 25.
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIG H-S T R K£T;
near sixth-street,
PHIL DELPHIA*