Vol. I.
For the NATIONAL GAZE i IV.
SOME PARTICULARS
relative to the
• OlLj SITUATION, PRODUCTIONS, t-Ji
OF
KENTUCKY;
Extruded from the Manuscript Journal of a Gen
dentin not lortgfmce returned ftWi tkoje parts.
THE fiver Ohio is, beyond all com
petition, the moil beautiful in th<
Universe, whether we consider it so
it's meandering course, through an im
nlenfe region of forefts, for its clean ant
elegant banks, which afford innumer.i
ble delightful fituatioiis for cities, vil
and improved farms, or for thou
many other advantages, which trul\ en
title it to the name originally given i:
by the French of La Edit Riviere. Af
ter passing a distance of five hundred
miles upon those waters, I arrived at
Limestone, which is the general landing
place for people coming by water from
the United States. The defcriptiom
hitherto given of Kentuckey have gen
erally been thought extravagant ; but as
nobody has come forward in contradic
tion to the common reports, v/e natur
ally conclude a country must be very
extraordinary, which every body unites
in extolling.
Influenced by this idea, I approached
this earthly elylium, (as I supposed it)
upon which Nature has been thought to
bestow her inofl peculiar favors, and
the seasons have been laid to Imile with
out interruption. The fir ft appearance
of Limestone, however, will be found
diflatisfa&ory to everyone that lands
from up the River. A number of houl
es situated on a loftv and uneven bank,
apparently at the foot of a very high
lull, (which, on account of a bend in
the river is not seen till you come with
in two miles of it) gives the stranger
notice of his approach to Limestone.
As you arrive you are mortified at find
ing the creek on which the town (lands
(so very conspicuous in the fmallell
maps) nothing better than a mere gut,
which may nearly be leaped over. In
this harbour are seen a few Kentuckey
boats, generally laying near the mouth,
many of which have been broken up to
form those draggling houses which are
perceived on the bank—The people ot
this place never fail to inform you that
this is the fag end of Kentuckey, and as
you are willing to consider it such with
them, for want of comfortable accom
modation, you are glad to get away from
it as fact as polfible. ,
However, as the quality or the (and
is the oreat object to emigrants, every
one must be pleased with the foil, and
was that the only thing requrfite to
make a country valuable or pleating,
Kentuckey would be the moll so ini tne
world, as the land is no where excelled.
After you are got fairly into Kentuc
key the foil assumes a black appe;arance
rich and light in substance, and (hould
vou visit the country in the spring, you
will be surprised at finding no leaves un
der the trees. The reason is,the ground
is so rich and damp, that they always 10
and disappear with the winter, except
where the foil is evidently poor, foi
that country. It then bears tne appear
ance of the better fort of land m 1 enn
fylvania and jersey, tho' differing wide
ly in fuMance, there being no land tc
be met with in the foil ofKKentuck y.
There is a fpeciesof flat, orfplit LiTir:-
stone that pervades all the country, a\
ins at unequal depths. In tne ric 1 an
black-looking loil, it lays near theTur
face, and in general the nearer the ftonc
lays to the furface the richer the iand i.
found to be. At the fame time the (torn
does not, as I cxpffted, impede, tm
growth of the trees, as they grow e\ ei>
where to an amazing height, cx ep n
the fait licks, where the influence 01 thf
By PHILIP FRE NEAU.
MONDAY, November 7, 1791
saline particles fcems to check thei:
growth,
Among the many accounts that ha\"
been given of Kentuckey, none of then
have done justice to the timber. OaV
and locust on the flat lands are commoi
at five feet diameter. Poplars growin;
on the beach lands arefo common at fiv<
and fix feet through, as hardly to be no
ticed—The beech grows to the thick
r.efs of four and five feet, and both o
the last mentioned to the height of on',
hundred and twenty to one hundred anc
thirty feet. Thef?, and the advantage
of pasture in the woods, conftitutc tht
great excellence of Kentuckey ; the dif
advantages will, I fear; nearly counter
balance the luxuriance of the foil.
The stories told of the abuadance o
gi'afs in the woods ard in many instance.'
t rae. You frequently find beds of cfo
Ver to the horle's knees, sometimes !
species of rush-grass commonly callee
wild rye, from "the fimilanty of it's
stalk to the rye so called among us ; m
other places we meet with large tract:
of wild cane, very much eftsemed by
the wild and tame cattle, it continuing
in verdure all the winter. I here is
also a lpecies ofvinecalled the pea vine,
from its producing a small pod, resem
bling that of the garden pea, of which
both horses and cattle are extremely
fond. These are scattered generally
through the country, according to the
different foils, but are not to be met with
universally. The woods, however, as-
Ford abundance of food tor cattle, and
:n consequence of this abundance the
seople pay very little attention to mak
nf and improving pasture lands. -
nilk from this food is thin, and botn
hat and the butter retain a strong take
>!' weeds. In hot weather their milk
vill turn four in two or three hours af
er milking; but, as the custom of the
rountry is to eat four milk, this dilad
,'antage is not much regretted.
It is generally the practice with the
ventuckians to turn out their horses
vith the cattle, and a man is frequently
wo or three days hunting for a hone ne
wants only for half an hour I hen
rattle have been, and are of ncccfiity ex
)ofecl during the winter to subsist in the
,voods, but theconleq.ucr.ce is, thatma
iy of them die, and all luffer extremely;
he common opinion being not we:l
ounded, that the climate is more favor
ible than in the middle States, w.ncn
s fufficiently evident from the winters
icre frequently proving as cold as m
r'ennfylvania or Jersey : with tnis uir
crence, that the changes are more: luu
ien, and the effects more severely telt.
The houses in Kentuckey, iomc tew
n the towns excepted, arc fcarcelycie
erving of the name; which we fhal
nave the less room to admire at, wher
we recollect the short interval ti-.at ha:
jlapfed fincethe firft icttlement ot t.ic
:ountry. ~ ,
A temporary hut is at firft erected,
.eaftasopen as a New-Lngland coin
-rib ; yet in thole miserable habitation
are seen Ladies neatly dressed, who arc
is yet, obliged to relide (herein for wan
:,{■ better houses. The Taverns arc gen
-". ally wretched, unlcls one or two h
;he Capital town, Lexington; and you a-i.
charged extravagantly for the w-'.r!
fare ; should a man go to Kentuckey
who could cat neithtr milk nor bacon
his cafe would be pitiable; bijt I uo no
mean to reflea, on the contrary I an
willing to allow that the buildings o
every kind are improving as ta.t j» tn<
circumstances of the country wih per
ml The convenience of a spring of wate,
thefiriL and chief conlidcranon ir
choosing afpot for a houie ; and as .k
roads in general are laul out upon ..u
higher grounds, the country, to a tra
veller appears still to be unmhabu,u :
SendkF/ran-ot foliury -ooj pre.
venting the agreeable view ot
settlements. but upon a general muft«:r
r!-ix-j the scene is wholly chang.a.
ire then surprized at the number of in
habitants that emerge from the forefts
co pra&ife in the art military.
The great boast of a K,enluckcy-maii
•, the quantity of corn that the land wil!
rulfe upon an acre ; of which, one hun
dred and seven bufnels is the greatefl
quantity that I could find afcertamed to
have been produced. This, in the fall,
fells for fix pence a buOiel. Ihe com
mon produce of the foil is from fifty to
eighty bufnels an acre, in a favorable
season. This upon an average, is about
three times the quantity we can raise 011
ar. acre :n the old slates ; gram of this
kind mull therefore always be low in
Kentuckey, probably lower than at
prelent, when the country comes to be
more opened.
Hitherto there has not been much
nore grain ruifcdthan has Deenconfum
:d by the inhabitants ; and the persons
;migrating there, together with the trade
'own the river, may afford ,1 tine prof
>e& in theory, to but will
lever turn out of any lolid advantage to
he public of this fettlemcnt : The dif
iculty in returning up the river mull
emier the voyage terrible. To make
lead a gain ft the It ream muft'oedone by
lint of severe labor and mam strength,
rnd would require exertions which no
nan would eve!r wish to make a second
ime, who was not urged by the induce
nent of gaming a speedy fortune
hereby.
In palling through the country dur
ni the fummel- season your attention is
lways drawn to the drynefs of the
reeks and runs. A little water is infome
ilaces, seen standing among the flat
tones, but so warm with the iun that
attle will scarcely drink it. We feel
iuA at the fight of a large and beautiful
ountry, that will forever labour under
he inconvenience of a want offerings
nd running water, at lead, five months
n the year. The lightness of the foil,
n wet weather, soon makes' the roads
inpleafant for travelling, which arc as
oon dried again in fair weather. Ihe
am finks presently below the furface,
he brooks which were just now flow
ig with water, are in a few hours dry,
nd seized as it were with a general
hirst.
At present horse mills grind a great
art of the corn and wheal of the coun
ry, altho' a comparatively imall part
f the latter is used by the inhabitants,
rho generally give the preference to
ndian meal baked in a pot, or before
ic fire.
All strangers, upon their arrival here,
mdergo a purgation, which is thought
a proceed from the limestone quality
mparted to the vi ater from the nature
,{ the foil. Gnats and flies are very
roublelome, particularly in the fall, at
vhich season they become a perfect tor
ncnt both to man and bead.
Log houses mult be expc&ed to be
net with everywhere, boards being a
~e r y scarce article for want of saw mills;
>ut the materials will in time afford
jeautiful habitations, walnut and wild
herry being common articles of build
n A Lawyer in travelling through Ken
.uckey might well exclaim in the lan
guage of V irgil,
Qua regio in tcrris nojlri non plena labcrris
For of law there is enough, claims for
land interfering continually, and light:
so laid one upon another, that scarcely
any body knows who is fafe. Ihe em
igration tothispart of the continent has
been amazing, and this is the best placc
in the world for people to remove U
with large families, where they wil
find Providence fufficiently bountiful
or. if the view of the Emigrant fhoulc
be'to render himfelf and his pofterii)
here is the country tha
will luit his vifhe —at the fame time
let him underftuid that if he does no
Sring a fortune with him, he w,il hue
he mud at firii live low and work hard
Numb. 3.
It will require a long time to introduce
luxuries into the region called Keutuc
key, in any great plenty. But if the Em
igrant should be an enthusiast (as many
are who comc to fettle here) and looks
forward to the complete settlement of
this territory, he will think it the land
jf promise. and point it out to his chil
dren to be the spot for the millenium of
the world, where the farce of titular
dignity and the parade of courts fhali
lever be exhibited ; where monarchy
[hall never intrude to trample upon the
rights of man ; but a pure and equal re
jublican form of government fhail gra
dually introduce the practice of those
virtues, which are consonant to the true
rature of our i'pecies.
The Buffaloes have entirely quitted
he cultivated parts of Kentuckey, and
he Deer have become scarce ; of wild
urkies however, there are an abundance
learly as tame as those bred in the yard.
•Yom their being extremely poor in the
ummer they remain unmolel.ed : in the
virtter they grow very fat, and are rec
koned delicious food: of other birds
here is no great variety.
No land appears better adapted to t" '
rulture of tobacco than that of Ken'
tey, and it is now become one of ' "
taples. At present there are bi'
>rchards, but as the country ope
.vill find it their interefl to plat
The flour I have seen mad- >
jeneratty black, andnot lb good s , -
>e expe&ed. Poflibly it may be .
ault of the mills, or it may pro<
iom the richness of the ground, tho' ,
nuft be confeffed the grain itielf looks
/veil. As to money, it is scarcely a me
lium ofcommerccj except with fliopand
a vein keepers. Every thing has two
inccs, the trade and cajh price. What
alh there is, soon becomes collected in
hefhops,andreturns for goods; imports
elling from one to two hundred per
■ent more than the Philadelphia price ;
lotwithllanding which, every one dref
es gay, and except about the houses,
/on find the appearance of industry and
deanlinefs. The general mode of fct
ling, with a new Emigrant, is to build
i little log hut—-he then lets about gird
ing, or killing the trees, and wjren that
s done, puYs in his corn without delay,
should he, after all this, not feel at home,
ior relish his situation, or admire his
:>rofpe£ts, his only consolation will be
if it can be called a consolation) that.
o the family of a poor man, women and
hildren, it is a dreadful, I may fay, almojt
in impossible thing to return.
Philadelphia Nov. 5, 1791.
Extract frovi the Proceedings of the Gene
ral Assembly of St. Domingo, Sept. 28.
Translated for the National Gazette.J
TIIE secretary of the committee ol re
ports has reported the calc of Mr,
Bourne, and prcfented to the assembly
he draft of a decree, which has been
idopted, in the following terms :
" Mr. Silvanus Bourne, who has
; ,cen appointed by the President of the
United States of America consul for the
•aid dates at St. Domingo, having met
ivith some difficulties from the Colon;-
il tribunals in refpeft to his admission
as consul; and being in confcquence
thereof upon the point of returning to
his countrv —the provifionary adminis
trative alTeinbly for the northern de
partment of this colony having notified
their.dcfire to the general assembly that
Mr. Bourne should be invited 10 ic
main at the Cape and exert if" the du
ties of his confulflrip, the general
lembly has referred the further consi -
deration of this matter to the committee
of the constitution.
Sept. 2n.
Decreed proviftonally. inat .1. .v.Aa
nas Bourne be invited to remain in this
colony ; and in confcqucni c ot his com
pliant e with this invitation, that t.ie
jrelident of the allembly lhall put his"• (•■juatur to Mr. Bourne's letters, that
he may proviiionally exccutc the duties
of coniul for the United States of Ame
rica in the three ports) of St. Domingo,
called the portsof entry, and n'ot elie
where.
Decreed, farther, that copies of Mr.
Bourne's letters, and other writing", by
hiin produced to the general assembly.
lhall be deposited in the public office of
records, to be occalionally referred to ;
and that the articles agreed upon at
Versailles the 14th of November, 1788,
between M. M. de Montmorin and Mr.
Jeffcrl'on shall be printed, arid published
in all such places as shall appear neces
sary and proper, for the fake of general
information : and,' lastly, that Mr.
Bourne be requefled to apply to the ad
miralty of the three ports of entry in
St. DomingO, to caule his commilfion
and other powers to be registered in the
offices of their court.
Translations from Gazette Natiokale
and other French papers, printed at Pa
ris, Aug. 26, 31.
CONSTANTINOPLE, July 24.
Intelligence of a very difagreeablc
nature is received from Mecca, the
cor.sequences of which will in all pro
bability prove fatal to the Ottoman
power in Aha ; an Arabian tribe, con
lifting of near fifty thousand men have
polfelied themselves of Mecca, pillaged
the treasures, and deposed the Sheriff,
whose place is filled by one of his
Chiefs. The caravan which travels
every year to this city, carrying with it
a vail number of pilgrims of the Mus
sulman faith, has (topped in Syria, not
daring to pursue their journey any far
ther. This event has occasioned many
conferences in the Divan, but any de
cilivc step is deferred till further par
ticulars are received.
II A C U E, August 17.
The Princcfs of Orange is preparing
to set out on a journey to Brunlwick
and Berlin, with a view to encourage
the enemies of the French revolution,
and engage them, if poflible, to fall up
on Alsace and Lorraine. As a prepa
ratory step they have inserted in the
public prints the articles of the treaty
of Westphalia, which are there pre
tended to have been infringed by the
Decrees of the National Assembly. Se
cret advice has likewise been sent to
France from thisquarter, imploring the
King not to accept thenewconftitution,
or at least to delay the acceptance of it
as long as possible, with a promise of
speedy relief from hisprefent disagreea
ble fituatian ; to effect this purpose no
money will be spared ; but as to the
Prince of Orange himfelf, he is quite
phlegmatic on the occaiion, anddoes not
seem to espouse the cause of the arifto
cratical party, with that warmth they
expected. Some of these poor gentle
men waited on him the other day, on
purpose to pay their court he received
them with a deal of ceremony, and, in a
very formal manner, addressed them as
follows : —" I am truly grieved, gentle
men, for your unfortunate situation, ant
profpecls ; I, too, in my time have had fac
tions, perplexities, and popular injuflice ti
contend with, but I defy the world to Jaj
the fault was mine." With these word:
he wished them well, and left them, un
der pretence of more urgent buiinefs.
W A R S A W, August 14.
The Sultan of the Turks is so il
pleased with the conditions of peace
offered by the Emprefs,that he has now
for a l'econd time applied to the cour
ef Spain, that by their means and in
. terference, he may obtain better terms
The discontents of hisownfubjefts will
however, compel him to accede to the
peace that is offered. News is just re
ceived here that the confcquenccsof the
battle of Maczin were much more fata
than the defeat itfelf. Afterthe Granc
Vizir had retreated to Hetfova, ant
from thence to Schiumla, he was vcrj
near being cut to pieces by his owi
troops, and only made his escape by <
very precipitate flight. The whol<
Turkish army was dispersed, and in thi
greatest eonfufion, the Arnautes havin:
fallen upon the Jariifarics and put ,
greater number to the sword than ha<
fallen in the battle.
AIX-la-CHAPELLE, Aug. 20.
The continual going and coming-os
couriers has given rife to a suspicion
that certain sovereigns have femething
el's in view, than merely making apeace
for the Turks, lince that m ly he consi
dered as good as accomplished. The
French exiles are penuading themselves
that Francs is the principal objett of all
these movements, and that the relpec
tive sovereigns have it much at heart to
reinstate Louis XVlth in all his prero
gatives, to restore the French Nobleflo
to all their privileges, and the clergy to
theireftatcs !
Extract of a letter from Pont Beauvoifin.
Augujl 18.
" Havinghadoccaiiontotravel through
Savoy, I lit down a moment to give you
fame particulars of" my journey. The
lelf-exiled Frenc.h in Savoy are hut few
in number : few as they are, however,
thev are not without their little army,
encamped near Lake Bourget. Their
uniform is blue with scarlet lining, but
tons with thrcejleurs de lis, and a white
cockade. This army consists of near
:; .sty men, well paid and fed. The Ge
i?ral I saw on the parade ; they call
rim M. de BuiTy.—Here arealfoa great
lumber of fugitive priests, who leem
. ery poor and defhitute. The late Arch
lifhop pafled along here several days
igo; infome of the villages he was com
plimented as he went through, but the
own of Coujlans absolutely refufed tc
pay him any refpeft whatever,andevef
ied up the clappers of the bells.—Si,
'.ranjit gloria mundi !"
N AN C I, Ausutl 2;.
' O <J *
We have daily accounts of the Ger
-nan troops on the frontiers and atLux
:mbourg, deserting from their garrisons
ind pafling into France with their arms
md baggage, which they dilpole of at a
i/ery low price. It is even said, that
hey desert in whole platoons and de
achments, and to such a degree, we are
dlured, that after changing his regi
nents five or fix times, the German Ge
reral has been obliged to retire from the
rontier with all his remaining trotips,
.0 prevent a total desertion.
A letter from Longioy informs, that a
lumber of the inhabitants had formed a
lefign to seize upon the perl'on of M.
Liouille and carry him into France : un
fortunately the plot was discovered, and
hey were making preparations to hang
he conspirators when these accounts
:ame away.
AUGUST, 26.
Intelligence isjuit come in, that the
_>erman troops at Luxembourg, toge
her with the inhabitants, have risen in
1 body to prevent the execution of the
entente upon the persons that attempt
d to seize M. de Bouille and deliver him
lp to the vengeance of France. There
las also been a serious infurreftion in
irabant, in* which the refugees from
• ranee have fuffered not a little. M. M.
-iourcy, in particular has just arrived
lere, with his carriage, full of company,
vho thought they were snugly lodged
n the Brabantine territories, till such
imes as the old government of France
hould be restored.
A N N E C Y, Aug. 20.
They write from Thoucn, near An
necy, that a young man who was ling
ing the song, fa ira, in the night time
through the (beets, was arrested by the
guard, and taken to prison. Next day
the citizens rose, broke open the prison,
and carried him in triumph to all the
public places in the city, making him
ling <;a ira to his heart's content, in spite
of the garrison. The intendant, how
ever, and the arillocrats of the town
kept themselves carefully concealed all
tins time, till a large body of troops
which they had sent for, came in fight.
Unfortunately the citizens, to the num
ber of 4000, were unarmed, and inca
pable oi defence. Twenty-four of tha
principal of them had the good luck to
eicape to Geneva. Melfcnger after mcf
lengcr was sent to have them delivered
tip, but the friends of humanity had
them carried over the lake and conduc
ed into the French territories. This
day the Senate condemned four others
ol the ringleaders to be broken alive.
These four vitlims to ariftocratical re
fentmem, are a phylician, a surgeon, a
lawyer, and a private gentleman. For
ty other citizens of note coscerncd in ■
this affair have b<;en fcrit to the gallics
for life, and a reward of one thousand
1 ivies is offered for apprehending every
fugitive.
MADRID, August 10.
Three foreign vessels have recent ty
unladen their cargoes at a port near
Oran, confifti'ng of all kinds of warlike
ftoresj without the Spanish squadron,
which Was CruifTng before the place, be
ing able to prevent it. The hege of
Oran is going on as usual. The new
Dcy of AlgierSj who it was thought en
tertained sentiments favorable to Spain,
has at length shown quite a contrary dif
pofttion, and we have reason to fear,
will follow the maxirss of his prede
ceflor.
Letters from Naples, dated July 30.
mention a torrent of Lava having tor
lomedays proceeded from Vetuvius, on
:hat fide of the mountain adjacent the
:o:tft of Refini. It flows in great abun
dance, and had already begun to inun
date the cultivated fields.
AUGUST 15.
News is just come in that the Bey of
Mascara, yielding to the instances of
:he Dey of Algiers, has raised the siege
:>f Oran, and departed with his whole
army.
PARIS, August 31.
Much time has been spent in devifmg
neaus to prevent the exportation of
pecie from France.—Nothing is more
:afy ; let us stamp upon our goki and
ilver coins, the words, " Freedom or
Death" and there is 110 danger that our
icighbors will admit such money to cir
culate amongst them. But, it may be
:>bje£led, " they will melt it up." Chy
nifts will tell us, however, that, there is
i method of so alloying metals, as to ren
ier the fufion of them deftruttive to
he intrinsic value. We must then, of
leceffity, prattife this ait and our ene
nies will loon be wjearyof an operation
>y which more is to be loft than gained.
The French plan of Defence, in cafe they are
attacked by a junction of European Pow
ers.
1. Never to surrender thcmfelves up
ilive to an enemy.
2. Not to give quarter to any foreign
loftile officer whatever, be his rank
A'hat it may, from the corporal to the
general, inclusive, if taken with arms in
heir hands.
3-. Still less (hall quarter be given to
my Frenchman, who shall be found in
irms against his country.
4. 1 o treat in a friendly manner eve
-y foreign foldicr, who shall be so un
"ortunate as to be compelled, by con
tract of military discipline, to obey
he order of his officer ; it being con
rary to the disposition of a generous
people to reckon any person their ene
nies, except those who shall have the
:ommand in this work of murder, and
ivho would, if possible, perpetuate the
lavery of the human race. With a
aithful adherence to the above rules,
he French will continue free and in
vincible, tno' all the tyrants of the world
liould enter into a combination auainft
:hem !
Prefeniment of the French Conflitution to
Louis XVI.
September 3.
. On Thursday the ift inft. the new Conflitu
fin"ll /"fl j 7 ds u P refemad 'O the King, as
finally digeftt d, for his acceptance. The whole
vas read to hnn except that part on the manner
>f convoking national assemblies of revision.—
h-'aff W f S I* 1 "' ' 3aC ' i 10 , ' le Comrn i'tee ef
he assembly of the nation, on which the fubtecl
vas relumed next day, when it was propoled
Z Mows mmiUeC ' the ariiClCS shoUld f,and
V 1h h "J." 0 " 3 ] mbly declares, that the
lation nas the indefeahble right to change its
.onttmitton: and nevertheless, considering that
jv the "° f ,hC , natio " notto bu!
md bv P °T ° Ut lhc con ft»"tion,
nlt lf f nS Weinafter mentioned, thi
whkh /x„ rEl,ngtheCOnm,U,lo, ' al artides - of
-"JSs tet"r"Jf
have .he ie B ,flwur «. b.wever, shall n0
the power ,0 expels a with for evilion.
but Sfcr^ ln0:c i
in examining if there't |C "' 0 "'
-'Hon the thud -
rates on the invitation shall , V
in .he difcutTion during ihe Kvo firlt k c
the second year of thj IcfliorT W ° ntbs ° f !
" The fourth legiflaturc fiiall be a revifino
legiflatjre ; Shall be composed of 249 members
more than the ordinary legislatures— rhefe 249
members (hall withdraw aher the labor of revi
lion, and shall not participate on obje&s of lega
tion. The revising body fliall ta<e an oath not
to employ themselves but on the obje&s 011 which
the three preceding legislatures fliall have called
for the revision.
" The decree by which the legislature fliall
demand the revuion of a eonftituiion article,
fliall not be submitted to the fanition of the lunu.'*
The propolitions, after some debate, were
adopted.
After some debate, relative to inserting in the
confutation, the right of granting pardons, as the
king's prerogative, it was moved by M. Lingui
nais, as follows:
" The National Aflembly declares, that the
conflitution is formed, and that it cannot be
changed."
Tne inolion was put and carried unammoufly.
Not one member role in ojjpofition on the right
hand. Ihe burst of applaule which followed
from every part of the assembly, teftified the
triumph of patriotilm. The acclamations con
tinued lor levetal minutes. It was~precifely
half pad twelve, at noon: and thus, (11 two ySpts,
three months, and filteen days, .4 new CoriliUu
ifon has rilen out ot the ruins of the old.monar
chy, the corruptions of which forced an enlight
ened people 10 begin from the foundatiyrv J It
would be impei tinent in me to detain our read
ers with oblervaiHjns ol my own. Prelent the
conflitution to them entire, and demand if it does
not at lealtpromife to I'tcure to the people of
France the blelfnigs of a pure government, cheap
ly adminiflered.—At the intereflmg moment of
this motion palling into the affirmative, all par
ties seemed to unite. Feuillans and Jacobins
joined 111 equal expressions oi tiiumph. The
one party happy that they touched the end of
the glorious labours which have employed them
lo incefiaiitly, and fubjefcled thetn 10 luch various
calumnies, foreign and domeflic, surrounded as
they wete with dangers, alarms, and calamities
ot every kind. The other party, to all thele,
had the additional motive of joy, that thev were
now fafe a o amik further modification, for, irrita
ble and jealous, they dreaded that every mo
ment was pregnant with changes. —The sur
rounding public were elevated bcyo.-d powers
oi description, lor they saw the glorious labor
accompliihed, under the progress of which they
had luifered luch inquietudes and agitation, and
had now the double prolpeitof liberty and peace.
_ Dandr e then role and moved, that the
Conltnution of France be presented to the Kin*
by a deputation of sixty members, on this day"
the fccond of September.—The President then
went to the Thuilleries, and took the Kino's
plealure at what tm e he would receive the depu
tation.—He fixed it for nine, .n the evening.
About three quarters after eight the proceifion fat
out, and upon their arrival at the palace M.
Ihouret who was the orator, presented the
grand ast to his Majefly, with these words
•' Sire, '
' Ihe National Aflembly has charged us to
present to your Majefly, for your acceptance,
the Gonftitutional A£t, which confeerates the
imprelcr.pt,ble rights of the French people;
which .egenerates the government, and afcer
tams the true dignity of the throne."
The King read his anlwer from a paper
" Gentlemen,
" I (hall examine the Confthmfon which the
national aflembly has charged you to present to
wuh i known to you my resolution,
with the shortest delay pofl.ble, which the ex
amination of at> object so important will permit
lam determined to remain in Paris 1 fl, a l[
give to the commandant general of the national
guard of Paris, the orders which I ftull think
iccellary for the service of my guard."
He read this with an open countenance and
an an of fat,station, and gave the paper to M
" "" «"""
The deputation moved back in the fame order
8- ' h , e Aflcmoly, where M. Thouret read the
rngs answer. to the members, who had re
mained there during the important interval.
BALTIMORE, November 1.
Extra El of a letter from a gentleman at Kantz, to
his friend m this town, dated Sept. 10
'• We learn with concern, by Captains
veflels from your fide of the water, the
erroneous reports made you of the fttu
ation of this country. We can allure
yon that we are in the mod perfect tran
quility, and that commerce was never
more flourifhing or better protected."
SHEPHERDS-TOWN, Oa.
Late advices from the weilward slate.
t.;at the grand army under General St.
Clair, alter having marched 25 miles,
halted and ereaed a fort without
htion. 1 hat it was the intention of the
General to continue the chain of forts
fu 2 5 milesd iftance, until his arrival It
icMaumec towns, provided the ground
will admit of them That at their arrival
"S^ S r if 'n ° f V 2OO mCn Was £o bc
. i«at the army had been
joined by i ; 0 o Kentucky militia, which
a body of upwards of 8000 •
and that the Court Martial held on Cc
|* era - •'-ar.Tiar, had acquitted him with
honor.CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 01
THE UNITED STATES.
THU RSDAY, November 3.
Mr. ohn Page and Mr. Richard
Bland . :e,both from Virginia, appear
ed and took their feats.
Read a third time, the bill, deferring
for a further period the return qf the
enumeration of the Inhabitants of the
Diftrift of South-Carolina.
Upon motion to fill up the blank wiil
March the firfl, 1792, the question wa:
taken upon the motion, and carried ir
the affirmative. The question upon pas
sing the bill was also carried, when the
fame was sent to the Senate for theii
concurrence.
The fevcral petitions of Peter Bellev.', Samp
son Brown, Henry Crane, Thomas Ditfon
Thurflon Hillard, H innah Holbrook, late widov
of Alexander Borghen, decess'd, William Hort
in behalf of the children of Lieut. John Bulb
deceas'd, Henry Lebo, Patrick Lemmon, Joht
I,ether, and Deborah Patrick, widow of the last
Capt. William Patrick, deceas'd, were read, rel
petlively, praying compensation for wounds re
ceived, injuries sustained, or services rendered it
the American army, during the late war.
Also, two petitions of John Manlcy, late ;
Captain in the navy of the United States, pray
ingto be allowed competition for certain ar
rears of pay, and also his proportion oi the prizi
money for lundry captures, which he made ii
the late war.—Referred to the secretary at war
The petitions of Phineas Ware and Danie
Robbins were ptefented to the house and read
refpcQively praying the renewal of certain loai.
office or final fculeinent certificates, confumei
by fire.
A petition of William How, of Shrewsbury
Malfachufetts, praying that as he became ai
American citizen at the commencement of the
late war with Great-Britain, entered into th<
service of the United States, and has continue*
to be a citizen thereof since that time, he may b<
relieved againlt the operation of certain proce'ed
ings of a court of ljw in Nova-Scotia, contrary
to the provisions contained in the fourth articlf
of the treaty of peace between the United State
and Great-Britain.—Refei red to the secretary 0
slate.
A peti'ion from Golu.nus Eikelens was pre
fented to the house, and read, praying tha
the report of the secretary of the treafurv, mad<
to the last feßion of Congress in opposition to .
claim exhibited by the petitioner, may be re
eoalidcred and his claim allowed.
A petition from Ebenezer Prout, praying tc
be allowed the balance of his account againfl the
United States, as clerk to the afliftant commiffa
ry of prisoners at Rutland, during the late war
Referred, refpeftively, to the fecietary of the
treasury.
A petition from Abraham Hunt, praying tc
be allowed five years half pay as a Captain :n the
full MafTachufetts regiment, during the late war
Upon motion, the prclentment of said pctitior
to the secretary at war, was negatived.
A petition of David Cook, late a Captain ir
the third regiment of artillery, of the state 0!
Malfachufetts, was presented, and read, praying
that the consideration of the report of the fecre
tary at war, at the lass Icflion, on a claim of tb.
petitioner, may be refunied, and his fatd clam
allowed—Referred to the committee "formak
ing compensation to widows, oiphans, and inva
hus in certain cases."
MefTrs. Giles, Clark and Livermore
were appointed a committee (in confc
quenceof Mr. Giles's motion of yester
day) to examine, and report their opi
nion if) the House on so much of the
meflage and communications from the
Prefidcnt to both Houses on the 17th ol
January last, as relates to the bounty
lands granted to the late officers and
soldiers of the State of Virginia, and all
other papers relative thereto.
Upon motion of Mr. Sedgwick, a
committee was appointed to bring in a
bill, fpecifying the mode of renewal in
cases where persons holding evidence;
ofthedebtof the United States, may
have had them loft or ueftroyed.
Mr. Dayton's motion of yesterday
was then taken up, that the Commis
sioners for fettling accounts between the
United States and individual States re
port to the Iloufe the progress they have
made in such settlement, uad the time
in which it maybe expected they will
conclude this bulir.efs. lhe motion wa:
agreed to.
The Committee to whom was refer
red the petition of Francis and Ifaat
Choat, on Ihurfday last, made a re
port, which was read and ordered to lie
on the table.
The House, pursuant to the order 0 !
the day, resolved itfelr into a committer
of the whole, on the Cc 'Jus returned—
Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair. —The
motion before the House, one Reprefcn
utive for thirty thousand to be the
ratio.
Upon mot'on of Mr. Sedgwick tha
the ratio bs increased in the proportior
of one Member to every 34,000 per
Sons.
It was wifhcd by Mr. Clarke that thi:
Hibjeft might be confidcred with th<
greatest deliberation, as complaints hac
already anfen among the people of toe
numerous a representation : hetherefore
moved for Striking out the words thirty
thousand from the original resolution
and inlerting Jcrty thousand in theii
Head.
Mr. Williamfon, feared the conSe
quenccs of any additional burthens foi
the support of government, which he
thought was already Sufficiently expen
live. The ratios that had been menti
oned were from thirty to forty thou
sand ; in cafe those were disagreed to.
he should propose the medium of 35,00 c
Inhabitants to one Representative.
Mr. Lawrance, wasagainft the motion
for Striking out, and infilled that the
general sense of America was for " thir
ty thousand," and that a rcafonablc ad
dition to the number of Representatives
would be productive of no ill conse
quences to the public ; at all events,
the number ought to be so considerable
as to embrace the opinions and secure
the confidence of the people at large.
A narrow ceconomy in this rctpett die
not prevail in chooling the number oi
Representatives for the State Legilla
tures, why then Should the Houle ol
Representatives, for all America, be a
lone reStridtcd to a parsimonious repre
fentation, the objects of whose delibera
tions were at all times by far more im
portant ?—He concludcd, by hoping
that a bufmefs qr such confsquencc
wouldnotbehurriedthrough the House
Upon motion, it was then carried, thai
tha House will again resolve itfelf intc
a Committee of the whole on the Sche
dule, containing the Census of the In
habitants of the United States.
Ordered, that the report of the Attor
ney General, on matters relative to the
adminiltration of Jullice under the au
thorityofthe United States, as require
to be remedied, together with certair
propositions of amendments to the con
llitution of the United States, whict
were offered on the third of March last
and deferred for consideration to th(
present session, be committed to a com
mittee of the whole Houle to-morrow.
FRIDAY, Nov. 4.
Egbert Benfon, a member fiom New-York
attended and took his leat.
The Speakei laid before the house a letter fron
the secretary at war, accompanying his reportsor
the Several petitions of John Younglove, pray
ing the continuance of his penSion ; of lundr]
inhabitants of the counties oi Albany and Wall]
ington, tn the frate of New-York ; and of Joh
Torrey, adrmmflrator of the late Major Jofep
Torrey, which were read, and ordeied to lie 0
the table.
Several petitions were read, from officers an
1 Soldiers in the late army and navy of the Unite
i States, during the late war, prayingcomptnfatio
■ for wounds received, injuries fuftaii*d,or Service
■ rendered.
Also, a petition of Chiitlian Coon, Senior, u
: Frederick county, Maiyland, praying compen
Sation Sor three horSes, the property ol the pen
tioncr, which were impielfed and died in th
Service of the United States, during the late wai
AlSo a petition of Hannah R'.chardfon, lat
widow of Lieut. Wadleigh Noyes, who died 11
; ihe service of the United States; and of Jofep!
Richardson and John OSgoort, guardians of th'
children of Said deceas'd, praying that the allow
ance granted to the widows and orphans of thoS
who died in the service of the Uniied States, dur
in<r the late war, may be extended to than.—
1 Said petitions were referred to the secretary a
1 war *
A petition of David Meade Randolph, ex
1 ecutor of Richard Randolph, deceased, was pre
5 fentcd to the Houle and read, praying to rcceivi
' payment for a quantity of flour, f'upplied lor tin
use of the army, dunng the late v/ar, by the
, tellator. Referred to the Secretary of the Trca-
The House then proceeded to consider the re
port of the committee, 10 whom wis refei red the
petition of Jeremiah Allen, flientf of ihe county
' of Suffolk, Mulfacfiufetts, reSpefling a prifonei
? committed under the authority of the United
States.
s After Some debate thereon, the petition and
report were referred to the committee of the
- whole House on the reviSion of the Judiciary
C _ The' House proceeded to conSider the report
of the committee to whom was referred the
petition-o£ Susannah I owle. ,
Referred to ihe committee of the whole Houle
f on the (late of the Union.
c The House then took up the report ol th:
- committee to whom was referred the petitions ol
c Francis and iSiac Choat ; which, being read a<
-1 follow, That in tIK opinion ot the committee.
he prayer of the f.iid petitions Cannot he granted,
was, on the question put thereupon, agreed to by
he House.
A petition of Charles Colvill, of the city ol
Philadelphia, was read, praying to be paid the
mount ot hi ransom from (lavery among the
A.lgerines, together with his expences in travel
ing from Algiers to Scotland, and from thence
o America; as also that measures may be taken
or procuring; the ransom or relief from llavery
)t Captains Obrien and Stevens, with their re
peElive crews, being citizens of the United
States, and now in (lavery at Algiers.
Mr. Fitzfimons moved a refotution, that a
:ommittee be appointed to bring in a bill to re
gulate pilots, and to provide for the fuperintend
nice ot light houses, beacons, buoys, and public
)iers, throughout the United States; which wa<
eid and ordered to lie on the table.
The order of the day for ihe house to resolve
tfelf into a committee of tTte whole house or
he Ichedule of enumeration 01 the inhabitant;
the United States, was further postponed until
Thuriday next. [Adjourned till Monday.]
PHILADELPHIA,
November 7.
On the 11th July lad, the Prcfidcnt of the
Jnited States formally recognized the appoint
ments of
Richard Codman, Esq. Vite-Conful of Por
:ugal for the date of Malfachufetts ; of
John Abrams, Esq. Vice-Consul of Portugal
or the date of New-York ; of
James Barry, Esq. Vice-Consul of Portugal
or the dates of Maryland and Virginia ; and ol
Francis James Verenocke, Vice-Consul oi
Portugal for the date of South-Carolina : And
on the ££th of October that of
Joseph Ravaia, Esq. Consul-General fiarn
Senoa, for the city ol Philadelphia, &c.
The lad letters from Algiers mention that the
ransoms demanded by the Dey, lor the Ameri
can piiloners detained there, amount to thirty
r our tboufand, fcven hundred and ninety two
dollars.
On the 24th of OOober upwards of fevcnty
ail of velkls left the port of Bolton, bound to
different parts of Ada, Europe, and America.
We learn from a New-York Paper, that up
wards of two millions of acres of land dill u -
nain unappropriated in the northern parts of
hat date, and ate now to be dilpoled ot by the
Cojnmiflioners of the land office of said date.
Accounts from New-York mention, that ar
Sngliih frigate had arrived at the Hook from ja
liaica, with the Countcfs of Eflingham on board
who it is said had come for the benefit ol hei
health.
It is mentioned in a Baltimore paper of the if
nil. that on the Sunday preceding, between th<
lours of ten and twelve, A. tV. ninety-five fai
){ tjifferent kinds of veflels palfed the fort point
30ur:d to Baltimore, a considerable number o
them from sea. Nothing can be a stronger proo
the thriving situation of this town ; which ha
;very prr'pefi of becoming in a ihort time one o
:he firft marts of commerce in the United States.
By the Brig Hetty, Capt. Davis, f torn Cape
Francois, we are informed, that a confiderabt
number of French families have removed J run Hi
Ipanicla to Jamaica, in order to avoid the fury o
the Negro insurgents. Their houfeJlaves, at thei
firjl arrival, having from their converjakon, giv
en rife toJome fufpicicns of treasonable intentions
has been the cav/e for limiting the number Jar eac,
family, order of government.
The loss offuch a number of Sugar Fflates (fay
a Jamaica paper) in St. Domingo, viujt cccajun
ctmfiderable advance in the price of Sugars. Tim.
while the Jamaica planters were kept in fear by ac
counts of the East-India manufactured Sugars, an
the growing importance of the Maple Sugar 0
Ami ica, in one moment has that betji <Jfefled whic,
no hmnanforejight could pafjrbly have dif over ed.
A Utter was a_few days ago received by a gen
tlemamn New-York from his corrtf band* nt in th
if!and of Jerfey,mentioning thai "it is the prevail
ing opinion there, that the American veffcls whic
had been Jcizedu port their arrival at Guernsey an
Jersey with car goes of tobacco, under an alt oj Pat
luvmnt in the reign oj Charles the second, will I
released, and measures taken to secure indemmfco
tiom to the concerned.
We learn that the Directors of the Bank of th
United States have completed the appointment c
their officers, and fixed their salaries as follows.
Dollars.
Thomas Willing, President 3000
ohn Kean, Calhier 2700
George Simpfon, ift Teller ijoo
Gulian WEvers 2d do. 1000
William Lawrence, ill Book keeper, 1000
'ohn Rudd, ?ddo. i'oo
Philip Enk, it Discount clerk - J0
Edward Stow, jun. ad do. 600
Guftavus l.ifberg, Runner, 600
Price of Stocks at New-York,
Last Friday noon.
Bank Stock, from 146 *0 147
Six ptr cents, ai*:- nd.
Three per cents. Us.
Deferred debt. 13s. 3 1 2d.
Several Pieces and. Exhraßs.f Letters, pre
•ared ferr this day's paper, ace unaviidab!y poji
toned-till our ne.\t.
TO THE I'URLIC.
""pi-IE Firjl Number of t'li' pnp'r ap
-1 peareJ on Monday 'th> 3yl of OcL<-
'>er, aud mtlconiinu: to be regularly pu'o
'ijh-lon Monday and Tkurfday morn-rigs.
The price to subscribers will be Three
Dollars a year, 'the frjl half-yearly pay
ment to be made in three months, from the
time of subscribing ; the remainder at the
end of the year.
No advertifemenls are to be admitted ex
cept to a number not exceeding a page, with
out a supplement ; the remaining three pa
ges to contain a miscellany of the mo ft in
terefling intelligence, collcEled not only from
the foreign end domeflic newspapers, but
also from original communications, letters
and other papers, to which the Editor may
have an opportunity of recurring for the
most authentic information relative to the
affairs cf the United States and Europe. In
addition to the above, will be inserted a sum
mary of th' proceedings of the House of Re
presentativec of the United States ; politics,
poetry,and literary entertainment in general.
In this paper the Editor engages to Jup
port, as far as a newspaper can with pro
priety be supposed to support, the great
principles upon which the American revolu
tion was founded, a faithful adheren.ee to
which can alone preserve the blessings of liber
ty to this extenfve -empire an empire,
in which the grand experiment is now
making, whether or 'not the assertion of
certain European philosophers be true, that
a pure republic can never subsist for
any letngth Of time, except in a very
limited extent of territory.,
Convinced that a dijfemination cf ufeful
knowledge is the most effective means to pre
serve alive the spirit of rational liberty, in
every country, no pains will be spared to
make such feleßions, and publish such es
says as fhaU appear befl adapted to that pur
pose.
Subscriptions for the National Gazette
are received in Philadelphia at the Office,
No. 230, High-Street—By Mr. Thomas
Dobfon, Bookseller, No. 41, South Second-
Street, and by Mr. Francis Bailey, No.
116, Hiih-Strcet.
Advertisements, articles of intelligence, &c.
are grdtefully received at the Office by the
Editor, P. FRENEAU.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Lines written on a paper of TOBACCO.
THIS Indian weed that once did grow
On fair Virginia's fertile plain
Fiovn whence it came, again may go
To pleal'e forne happier swain :
Of all the plants that Nature yield?,
This, lead belov'd, ftiall shun my helds.
In evil hour 1 firft elfay'd
To chew this vile, forbidden leaf
When half afham'd, and half afraid,
I touch'd and tailed to iny grief:
Ah me ! the more I was forbid
1 The more I wifh'd to take a quid.
But when I fmoak'd, in thought profound,
And rare'd the fpiralcircle hi^h,
My heart grew lick, my head turn'd round—
And what can all this mean ?—faid I—
Tobacco, surely, wasdt fign'd
To poison and deflrov mankind !
Unhappy they, whdm choice, or fate
Inclines to prize this bitter weed !
Perpetual source of female hate —
On which no be all, but man, will feed —
That chills my heart, and turns my head
And fends me reeling home—to bed.
ROBERT SMOCK,
Woollen Draper f Mercer,
Has just received by the (hip Pigou, from Lon*.
don, and for sale at his (lore, on the north
west corner of Market & Third
Streets, Philadelphia,
AN ELEGANT ASSORTMENT OF
SUPERFINE and fupcr broadcloths, in almost
every colour.
Ladies fuperfine habit cloths, in the most fa-
Ihionable colours.
Superfine caflimers, do.
Do. and super elastic striped cloths. '
Milled drabs and hunters cloths.
A variety of fancy waiftcoating, in silk, silk and
cotton, silk moleskin, cainmers printed and tam
boured, and fuperfftie llriped Spanifli toilenets.
Mens black fattins, florentines, and silk prunellas
of superior qualities.
Silk, silk and cotton, cotton and worsted hose,
aflbrted.
Sattins and mantuas, a beautiful variety.
Superfine rattinets, with a large collection of bell
trimmings for cloths, &c. of every quality.
Moreens, joans (pinning, durants and calimancoes.
Hairbincs aud camblets, &c.
9-8 wide fuperfine Marleilles quilting with bor
ders.
Marfeiilfs bcdquilu and cotton counterpanes, g 4
to iz 4.
Flanders bedbunts antl bedtickings.
A beautiful variety of chintzes and cottons.
An elegant assortment of yard wide furniture
chintzes, in beautiful colours and patterns, with
a large variety of furniture cottons.
Velveteens, velvets, corduroys* thicksets, fancy
cords, flockinets, royal ribs, fattincts, hair plufli
es, &c.
Striped and grey, twilled and plain Bath coat
ing*.
Rcfe blankets afTcrted. iawtfAUTHENTIC.
[Communicated for Publication.]
LIST offitch Good's, is by viitite of the Orthmnz
dated April 19?/!, 1789, the fttk Art. are grant
vd by the Royal Weft-India, Guinea, Excbt
quer, and General Cuftom-Chainber, to be iih
ported in St. Croix, from foreign American placc
paying the DutyJlipuLattd inJaid Ordinance 'vj
5 per cent, on absolute necrjfary, 10 per cent, a
necessary, and 25 per cent, onfuperfluous or lej.
necefjary goods.
A. Percent. Per cent
APPLES, 5 Corn great, and Gui~
Alexander Wood, 5 vea tlittO, - 5
Aquavit#, ar.d other Corn meal, - 5'
dijiilled Liqours, 25. Com mills andwbteh, io-
Anchovies, - 25. C bee fa - io.
Apothecary Wares, 10. Chairs t> ; ! forts, 25 <
Almonds, - 25. Cioath preff'es all
Affcs, - 5. Jorts, - 25
B. Citrons prefervefd, 25.
Boats and Yawls, 10. D.
Boat Hooks, •• 10. Ducks, - 5
Bananas and Plan. Doors w'ttb glazed
tains, - 5. sashes, - 25.
bar ley Grout or peeled Ditto with cases, 25.
Barley, - 10* Drippirgflones, - 10.
Beams cf Oak, Pitch Deer, - 5-
Pine, j.Ti/ White Deer bacon, - 25-
Pin?, - 5* Djing 10cod, - 5*
Booksprinted arcfree, E.
Beans j Horse Be-ar.S Eels falttd And fmo
exceptedy - 5. k'ed, - $■
Buck IVheat and Elephants Teeth, 5'
Buck Wbiat Grout, 10. p,
bow Sticks, - 5. f ir ewood, - 10 :
Boards of Oak, Pitch f rc nch brandy, 25.
P'ins, cW buckets, - 10-
Pine, - 5. jr 7 y£ dryedand salted,
Brazil Weed, . 5. herrings excepted, 5«
Biscuit »f all-forts, 10. plafks) - 2 5-
Bulls, - 5* Flounders dried and
Bull Bows, - 5. - 5.
Bureaus of all fort: of Hitches, - 10.
wood, - 2.5. Yujlic Wood) - S'
Lowfprits, - 10. jr jrtf fane, - 10.
Butts empty and worm Floor irg tiles, - 5.
- 5* Fowls. - 5'
But paves, - 5* Flour, wheat and
Bottles, - 25. - io,
Beef all forts salted fjjj, pickled, (bcr
and fmodked - 10. rings excepted,) - 5«
Brass furniture for Q,
all Jbrts of movca- Geneva, - 2 5-
bles, - 25. Geese alive, - 5 -
Bricks, , 10. £,<•/>
Beadf.eads of mahog- smoked, • 10 -
any and other wood, 25. Glasses wine and beer ,7 5.
Blocks (fhipy) - 10. winddws, rca-
Butter, - 10. d: made, - *$•
C. Gregory wood, - 5'
CrooJj /or jffif/tt, of Gridirons, - 10.
irow, - 5* Grout, Jago excepted, 10.
Cucumbers pickled, 25. Garden Jceds - 5«
ConfeElionary of all Garden he,bs, 5<
forts, - 25. Goats, - 5'
Cotton, - 5. Gypsum or phfier of
Corn grout, - TO. - 25.
Cocoa «a/j, - 5. Ginger, - 5«
Cocoa, - 5« Grave fiones, - 25.
Campechy wood or Glass panes, - 25.
log wood, - 5. H.
Cedar boards,planks, Heading for bog foe ads 5
beams, and pofls, $- Hams of bacon, ic<
Cedar furnitute, - IJand-fpikes, - :c,
Cemer.t, - 10. Hoes and bills - H
Chocolate European, 25* Hammocks • ic
Chocolate American > io* Horses from N. &S.
- 10. America - 1
Cochin:al, - 5. Horses, Englijh 1<
Cy/cr, - 25. Horse beans - It
Crucibles, - 25. - 10
CW fi(h salted or Horned cattle, - 5
dried, - 5. Hides tanned or dry, 5
Cc*/ founds, - 5. Houfeframes, - 5
Carpets, - 25. House furnitures, 25
Copper old, - JO. Hogfhiads empty, 5
Copper new wrought, Horse radish, - 5
as flills, flill beads, Herrings Jmoked, 5
worms, Jugar boil- Herrings salted, 10.
J /<?<! kettles, Hogs, - 5
lamps, funnels, Ju- Hogs lard, - 10
gar ladles, J'cum- wood, - 5
jflevj rivets, 10. I
Cabbage, all forts, in- Ink powder, - 10
eluding cocoa and Jeijis t - 5
mountain cabbage, Iron hoops & rivets, 10
yWyft pickled 5. /row hinges fiaples jo
Coffee, - 5« /row Z>oo£j, - ic
Caive:, - 5* //'0« tacbes and fur-
Canoes, - 10. for sugar, 5
Couches, - 25. /row window bars, 1
Capers, - 25. Indigo, - 5
Charts are free, Iron work of all forts
Chariots, for wind mills, and
Cbaifes, pofl, cattle mills, by whole
Chafes for a fngle fcts or feparate,fuch
borfe, as gudgeons, cabou-
Carriage harnesses, fes, cases, wedges,
Axle trees, brasses £? JietlJleps i<
Boxes, L
Wheels, Lead pipes, - 10
Shafts, Logwood, - 5
4 Tops, and bar- Lemons, - 5
ness furniture, 25 Lime bvilding, and
Cash:, empty, wirb or ft one ditto, - 10
without iron hoops, 5. Live flock of all forts, 5
Carts and barnefs, 10. Limes pickled, 25
Caf/avi meal, - $. Limes and lime juice, 5
CafJ'avi baking irons, 5. Lignumvita wood, 5
Cafjavi graters, - §. Linseed oil, io,
Caffavi bags, - 5. Liquors of all forts, 25.
Cbefts of ad forts, 25. Locuflra, - 5.
Clap boards, - 5. Looking glafjes with
Clip ffb, - 5- "WithoutJconces, 25.
Cocoa nuts, fee cocoa, M
Currants, - ?5- Medicines, . 10.
M/W, *// forts,
cr myrtle 9 - 10. 6n * Qt^tr bard
P., cent. Per cent,
ivoij ufiful for Sieves of brijs or iron
buildings, - 5. . jirt, - lf
Muflcal irftumcnti ',I.ng.es, - 5
alt fit si, - j 5 . Siipt o-.'.m, -
Mass are free. Sbbiii mas, taomeils
Mab'ngdny plank, ard -5
beans and p'-ft* 5' I'Jdter, 25
Machrnet, - 5- " 2 5
Mancbir.tal wood, 5. Spermaceti candles,
Manbadin fib, 5- W w/ > ' 10
-if«M Cr.'t, 10. Staves ef a I forts, 5
HTarble and ir.arble Stock fijb, ' 5
- 25 brown <a clayed 5
Majis, - 5" Sugar pots, - 5
Mast hoops, - ic. Sugar pads, - i<-
Mahogany and cedar Sugar cans wti,J eve
furniture of all ry at,tele belong
fins, - 15- r5 ,i ""' - 10
kolaffes, - 5• St;£3rtubs, - ic
mies, - 5- sI, PP" s > - 2 $
Mule J add! a ar.d
cmjti - rc. Tubs loafiinv, Lf ma-
Muflard feed, 5. %<"y " ter
/wr* of 'wooJ, 25
IVa.Vj, - 10. Tails fall forts, 2;
Q Trunks of all forts, 25.
1W - «5. Tocls ftr bakers,
\:rs Sri wood for Esther!,
making ditto, . 5. Coopers,
Granges, - 5- PridKrr,
Irrbn and organ Glaziers,
pipes, - if. Gold fnitbs,
Vine oil, - ic. Pewtercs,
Dak beams, pldnk {'$ Paintets,
boards, -
Jai furniture, 25. 1, ,v' ■ ,
(laves, white & Black Juntos,
red, - 5 Zf 1
"tats, - - 10 Shoemakers,
)at great and meal, IC* Joiners,
>»««, - s. S.otte cuttr'S,
Men, - 25. *"<"<*
Ja* pitch pine, and Carpenters, 5
white pine /pars All l.Ss not accounted
ar.d rafters, 5. necrfjhry for thea-
T,I train, - JO. mentioned
p trades, -
- 10. Turk,is, - 5
Bert iei, - 5. Tripe failed, - 10
J lanks of oak & pine, 5. Trust hoops, - J
"itch, - 10. Torr ye, • 5
"idgeons, -5- Tal'litO, • 1°
"oris failed and fmotred Tannins,
in barrels, - 10. Tie roof, - 5
a itebpine boards, Turpentine, - ID
plank, spars, raft- Tar, - 10
ers and laths, 5. 'Tobacco from America, 5
°htttons, - 25- ■£>'»» from Europe,
Pewter folder, 10. all forts, - 25
'car/ ijr ey, - 10. Tongues, - **>
Pumps and pump
breaks, - 5- Vinegar, - to
Potatoes, - 5*
fW jack, - 5- Water jars, - 10
Perler, ' - 25. /form tubs, - 5
Vrunello, - 25- White pine boards,
I'iUures, - 25- planks, spars, and
Plate glUfs, - 25- rafters, - 5'
Pr.'fry, - 'O' fVbed harrows* ao,
?rui,:s, - 25. Writing defis, 2;
Pickaxes, - 10. Windfcrand other
R chairs, - 1 5
Royfn, - 10. Wooden Lowls, ladles,
'lice, - 5- platters, tubs, dijb
?»m, - 5- cs,fpoons,&c.
'lum hogjbeads, 5. Wall nuts, - 5
Raijins, - 25. Wjser pots, - 1°
Rye four, - 15. Water j'pouts of Wood IC,
S Water pails, - 10
?weet meats. Set Window fa/h frames, 25.
confeßionary. Wine of all forts from
Smoked sprats, 5. foreign American
Sheep, - 5. places, viz.
Spy glasses, - 25 French wine,
Salmon, fulted and Madeira ditto,
fmoaked, - 5. Malaga ditto,
Ditto bellies, 5. Red and Spanijhdo,
Sconcee, - 25. Mahafer ditto,
S pbas, - Pert ditto,
Haufages, pickled atid Portugal ditto,
smoked,' - 10. Rhcr.fi ditto, 25,
ihamo'ts and Turky Wine d'.re&iy from
leather, - 25. Madeira in Dan-
Salt, . 5. ifh vessels, - 5.
Sandflor.e, - 25. ll'ax, - 10,
Ditto from Bermuda, 5. Wax candles, 25
Shads, - '5. Y
Sprats, - 5. Yokes for oxen, 5
Segars. Ste tobaco. Turns, - 5,
Stiffs, American, 5.
At the above mentioned goods is to be observed
that for the goods paid 5 per cent duties an.
as far they do not concern the ordinance date*
April 19th, 1779, t ' le -^ rt: ma y u K ar
cotton be given in half payment.
The Government of the Danish American
islands, July, 17S0.
CONTRABAND GOODS,
Which must not be imported into the Danif.
Weft-India Islands, from neighbouring Iflanus
are :
ANCHORS for veflels, Chalk,
Arrack, Curled hair,
Bru/hes all forts, Cartridge boxes,
Bells, Cordage of all forts,
Baskets all forts, Cinnabar,
Brass cocks, East-India goods of a!
Brafspots, forts,
Brass wire, Earthen ware, all forts
Blue, Feathers,
Beer all forts, porter ex- Flag stones,
cepted, Gun and pistol flints,
Beds, Gun powder.
Brooms of hair, Glew,
Calves skins dressed, Horse saddles, horf
Cables, trappings an J furni
Cotton manufadfcure all ture.
forts, H ats, all forts.
China goods all forts, Hair Jievei;,
China ware ail forts, Iron chains and collar
Copper new, excepting for Negroes,
plantation utensils, and Iron scale beams, am
tea kettles, chains,
C/oth fine or coarse, Iran po:s,
Iron pan?, pewter*
Iron in bars, P-- 11 tra P J *
Knives and forks, Sh«fdf lead,
Lampblack., Surgeons instruments,
Locks of all forts, Stone ware,
Linen of all forts, Sago, ,
Lanterns glass, horn and Soap green and white,
tin, Soap wath bulls,
Leather and (kins tan- Sail duck,
ned or drcfTed, Sail twine,
Mulkets with or without Sails tor wind mills,
bayonets, Silk ftoff, all forts,
Marrsfl'es, Spaniih brown,
Tvluilard ground, Smiths coals,
Nesro clotfting, Smoothing irons,
Deri yeilow, Starch,
Prufiian blue paint, Steel wires,
Pig lead, Tin wares of all forts,
Paints in oil or powder'd Tin water spouts.
all forts, Varnish,
Paper of all foits, viz. Veidegris,
Concept, Velvet of all forts,
Cartridge, Umbrellas,
Pointing, Weapons of all forts,
Writing, Writing books,
'ainted paper for rooms, Woolen goods of a
ipes of pewter and tin, forts, »
">uills, White lead.
lum cans, of wood and
-.afWy the goods, which ate not fpe-.ifie
in the above Tarif, or do not serVe sos hom
feipping goods to Europe, be deemed concra
band.
iVVich hereby is made known to all and every
that they fiiall not undfcr a pretext of the Grdi
fiance of April 19th, 17704 order goods from th
neighbouring lftands, which afterwards woul
be refuted entrance at the cuftom-houfts j al
so that neither owners nor captains of the ill
ands proper veflels shall hereafter dare to brin;
contraband goods under the pretext that the
shall be exported to Foreign places, as it fhal
not excuse them chat the contraband goods ii
the manifeft are entered for exportation.
The Government over the Dan if!
American IJlands, July, 1780
Tor the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
LOG TOWN TAVERN.
The following was composed fame yean ago at t
Jma.ll Inn, filuated in a remote and defa>
part of Carolina. A very incorreEl copy hav
ing appeared in a" Northern Newfpaber, th
subsequent Stanzas are now pubUjjicd as writ
ten by the Author.']
rHROUGH sandy waftesand floods of rail
To this dtje&ed placf 1 came,
Where fwarihy.nymphs in tatter'd gowns
From pine-knots light their evening flame.
Where barren oaks in close array,
With mournful melody, condole,
Where no gay fabric meets the eye,
Nor painted board, nor barbers pole.
Thou town of Logs ! —fo juttly call'd
In ttee who hal'.s at evening's close
Not dreams from Jove, but hotts of fleas
Slnll join, to sweeten his repose.
Since here I pae'd on weary steed,
Ah ! blame rne not, should I repine
That sprightly girl, nor social bed,
Nor jovial glass, this night is mine.
The Landlord, goug'd in either eye
Here drains his bottle to the dregs,
Or borrows Susan's pipe, while (lie
Prepares the bacon, and the eggs.
JAMAICA, that mfpires the foul
In these abodes no time has seen
To dart its genial influence round,
To kindle wit, and kill the spleen.
The squire of this disheartening inn
AtFords to none the generous bowl,
Displays no BACCHUS on the sign,
To warm the heart and cheer the foul.
To cider drawn from tilted cask
While some their fond attention paid,
He griev'd to fee the empty fla{k,
Its iubftance gone, it's strength decay'd.
A wandering hag, in dismal notes
Screech'd out a iong, to ease my grief;
Two boors their dull adventures told,
A shepherd each, and each a thief.
Dame judice here in rigour reigns,
All have on all the griping paw ;
Whoe'er with them a bargain makes,
Scheme as he will, it ends in law.
With scraps of songs and smutty words,
Each lodger here adorns the walls—
The wanton muse no pencil gives,
The coal her mean idea scrawls.
In murmuring dreams no chryflal wave
To cheer I he wretched hamlet flows,
But frowning to the distant bog
Susanna, with the pitcher, goes.
At dusk of eve, the tardy treat
Was plac'd on ol knotty pine ;
Each gaping, gax'd to fee me eat,
While round me lay the fnonng swine.
Unblefl be Ihe, whose heavy hand
Before me plac'd that mouldy pent ; *
May Ihe ne'er meet the joyous kiss,
Condemn'd to fret and ileep alone.—
1 he horfc, that bore me on my vvav
Around him call a rueful eye,
He looK'd—and saw no manger near,
And hung his head, and feem'd to sigh.
* A compofitim cj Mian meal r.rd u.-Lcr tak
ed brfore the Jire
At fturr.p of pine, For want of flail,
All night beneath adripping tyee,
Not fed with oats, but fill'd wi'.h wind,
And hulks, and blades, alone flood he,
Difcourag'd at so vile a treat,
Yet pleas'd to fee the early dawn
In hade we left this dismal place
Nor ftay'd to drink their dear YOPPON. J
May never weary pilgrim here,
Unlets for penance he's equipt,
Bo fore'd to pals his tedious night,
Or, doom'd to deep where I have flcpt.
J AJhrub leaf frequently used in fcntie parts of
Carolina, as a jubjiitute for tea.
Gentlemen who have fubfeription pipers in
their hands, for the National Gazettee, arc re
quested to fend on the names and address of thofc
persons who have fubferibed, with all possible
dispatch, to the Editor, at No. 7.3y, High-Street.
T~y
CHARLES BITTERS,
No. 120,
South Market, near Fourth Street,
Has received from New-York, and marmfetfturtd
BY LOT MERKEL,
A large and General Afibrtrcent of
Muffs ts? Tippets, Trimmings
Edgings,
Great Coats, Caps, Mitts & gloves lined with Fur;
which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lowelt Prices.
Oil. 4. lawtf
LIVERY STABLE?
PETER WEBBERS
HAS removed his Stable from Black-Horse-
Alley Co Drinker s-Alley, formerly kept by
Hr. Hydel, betwixt Arch and Jtacc-Streets in
Second-Strut, where he continues to take in
iORSES bv the Night, Week, Month or
JTear, &c. at the cbeapeft rate.
Philadelphia, Otl. 7. 4c
TO BE SOLD, BY
JOHN CAREY,
No. 112, Unian-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
Which may bef;en everyday, until r.M.
Among them are the following :
Folio. Homer, Xenophon, Plato, Plutarch,
Eufebius, Sozomen, Theodoret, Virgil, Horace,
Livy, Tacitus, Paterculus, Pliny, Concordan»
tia Lat. Concordantia Gr. Thefauros Cieeronis,
Biblia Juriti & Tiemellii, Bible de Martin,
Wells's Maps, Scapulje—Phavorini—Martinii—
Hoffmanni Lexica, Voflii Etyniologicon, Anti
juit. Ecclef. Britannicse, &c.
%«">• Pindar, Cyropadia, Bentrly's Ho
ace, Terence and PhtEdrus, Ovid, Juvenal,
Vlanilius, Cieeronis op. om. Csefar, Suetonius,
fulius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voflii Ars
3ram. Cluverii Geographia, Justinian Code, &c.
Octavo et infra. Homer, Anacreon, Arifto-
Theophraftus, Hefiod, PoetJe
ninores Gr. Ifocrates, Phalaris, various editions
f Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibulius,
Piautus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flac
- us, Aufonius, Buchanan, Salluft, Curtius,
Florus, Jufttn, Val. Maximus, A. Gellius,
Hilt. August. Scriptores, Englijh and French
Tranjlations of forne of the dallies, a great va
riety of Greek and Latin Grammars. &c. &c.
[Cs= Catalogues may be had of Messrs. Rice &
Co. Booklellers, Market-street, or of
JOHN CAREY.
oa. 3,.
This day is Published,
By CHILDS and SWAINE,
In one Volume Octavo ;
[Price One Dollar and a half, the small Edition,
and One Dollar and three quarters the large, j
THE
LAWS of the United States.
Collated with, and correfled by the original Rolls
in the Office of the Seoecary of State.
With a copious INDEX ; or
A complete DIGEST of the LAWS ;
( Making 56 pages :)
Executed by an eminent Law Character.
To obtain this ufet'ul and necelfary Hart of the
Work complete, has retarded the Publication.
This Volume comprizes the ABs of the Three
SeJJ-.onsof tbefrfi C>»gr,f, ; th.■ Federal
Unjlnution, and the Trea-ies bet-ween the United
-rates and Foreign Nations-Together with an Ap
pendix, contain,,,g the Declaration of Independ
ence, andfundry Ordinances ar.d Refohes of Con
enjs under the Confederation.
Chads and Stoaine, No. 230, Hivbi
beet, Thomas Dobjon, Jafrfb Crukjbank, and
Robert Campbell, Vbilade.pbia.
October 25.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAINE,
1 ThEI K 2"' ICE, KO. 239,
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA.