Vol. I.
On the PLEASURES of IGNORANCE,
[Tranfktsd from a late Fren'ch Author. |
T : F we conflder things aright, we shall
JL find that ignorance (s an inexhausti
ble source of pleasure. Let us not, howe
ver. ccmitder ignorance and error as on.c
raid the fame thing, as almost all mo
; alifts have aofte. Ignorance is the off
Saving of nature, and rnoft frequently ;
bis fling to man. Error, on the contra
r>», is too often the concomitant of ou
vim (ciences, and is always attendei
with misfortune.
To this the politicians of the prefen
day, who are lo fond of descanting oi
the enlightened age we live in, whet
contrasted with the barbarous ones tha
have preceded, would reply, What
was it not ignorance that so lately car
r.ed fire and sword through Europe
ilnd shed the blood of its inhabitants so.
she fake ol religious difpufes anddiffei
ence of opinion in such matters ?—•
kniwer, No —Ignorance lay inactive al
this time. It was error that gave birtl
to all these enormities —the errors o
people who ware fare they were in th<
j:ght, and boaited of their fuperioi
ligtit then, with the fame arrogance lha
■we do at this day, and the prejudices o
■whole education had taught them tha
lellon so familiar to Europeans, tha
nature has marie then: the f.rjl people or
the face of the globe.
How many evils might ignoranci
have concealed from us, which ever l
man myft; encounter in his paiiage thro
life, without the possibility of avoidinj
them ; such as the infidelity of friends
the vicillitudes of fortune, iiander, an.
the hour of death ; the prospect o
which is terrible to the boldest of men
The knowledge of these evils alone a
our re!llh for life, aad mcreo
less embitters every enjoyment.—How
are the real bleffibgs of hie heightened
alio, by ignorance. Ihe illusions o
love and Ihendfhip, the cheering pre!
pests of hope, and even the gratifies
lions that the Icier.ces prormfe to th<
enquiring mind, all take their colour
ing from ignorance. The fcienccs an
only charming when we enter upon tn<
ftueiy of thein. and when the mind 1
full of ignorance : as the twilight a
dav, or that part of it wherein
da'rknefs ..re equally mingled is, lead fa
tisuing to the eye,and excites ourgreal
elt admiration, after we have been fa
tinned with the full glare or day. Bui
it exilb only for a moment, and is diili
pated together with our ignorance.-
Young people in general are muct
plealed with studying the elements o
geometry, but old men never ; a ven
Few excepted, who by dint of fuper.o,
genius have been able to make a lene:
of new dilcoveries.
tor one pleasure that knowledge
gives us, and which isdeftroyed in the
;i ignorance prelents us with a thou
?nd which are much more flattering
lo the mmd. You demonstrate to me
that the fun is an immoveable globe ol
hie whole attraction joined to the cen
trifugal power inherent in the planets
I'rociuceJ their circular motion arounc
hsm. Is not the idea of thofc per.oiu
t.iually sublime, who iuppofe the fun
to be nothing more than a chariot oi
L co..du6ctlty Apclloyrhey .rc .
lcafl gratified with the idea that they
are in the immediate view of a Deity,
who U-.vels daily round the earth encir
cled bv rays of fire.—Science has di
ven Diana out of her nocturnal chariot
—She has bamlhed the Hamadryad,
f oia their ancient forefts, and chafed
the woodland nymphs from the foun
tains. Ignorance called in the gods to
partake of her joys, her sorrows, hei
inarriar e-beds and her tombs. Science
fcS nothing ... «» M
She hub left man to the mercy 01 man,
and ha.s placed him upon tne earth, -
Ilfs'ioout- ignorance thai ihe Dchy
ha, communicated the most profound
By PHILIP F RENE AU.
THURSDAY, December 15, i 79 r -
of his and the mod ftuptnd
ous of his works. The night gives us
a more enlarged idea of infinity than
the day. In the day time we fee only
one fun ; whereas, in the night we fee
Lhoufands. He has left us in ignorance
whether these stars be funs or not, or
whether the plahets in our vicinity are
really flocked with inhabitants and arc
L'ne abodes of intellectual life, and it is
from analogy only that we derive t"c
idea. Theplanet Cvbele, * discovered
in our days by the German Ilerfchell.
has run its career at the extremity ol
uur fvftem ever fir.ee its creation, wiui
out our progenitors having the lead
knowledge of it.—From whence comfi
these prodigious comets, which tra
verse such immense spaces of the uni
verse—What is this milky way which
seems to firm a line of divihon in the
heavens—What are those two black
clouds which remain fixed neai the
Antartic pole, adjacent to the conftei
! ation of the croiiers—ls it true that
there are stars which generate daikrrc.-s.
as was the belief of the ancients. Alt
there (paces in the ur.iverfe to win..-
Sight never yet came ?—ln the d*>
time, the fun difcoversto my view, ap
parently, a terrestrial infinity ; and ir
the night a cciefual infinity—lgnotanec
has covered all these enquiries with .he
mantle of mvftery, and may IcienCe ne
ver unveil them to the human view,
* Called by the Englilh, Georgium Sidu
(George's Star) after the name of their king.
[ Tlx foUHme : i trarflaled fmm the fu n>c frcnc.
Author, written suM after tic clip 1
the American war.]
" IT appears to me that forr.e h„'pp<
Revolution will Coon take plac u
France. But let it come when it will
it will be indebted to learning for it
prqgrefs. Science, indeed, is b\ 111
means lucrative to her votaries 11
France ; and yet {he maintains an impcr
ceptible dominion overthe governnren
itfelf.—Her influence, in some fbape o
other extends over the whole globe
The maxims of Confucius arc the lap
port of the various governments of Aha
and in Europe it was the poetry ot Ui
pheus that firft reduced men lrom a bar
barous to a civilized state. Ihe gem
us of Homer gave rife both to religio;
and legislation in Greece. It was thi.
that animated Alexander, and led hin
to the con que ft of Asia. Science, too
had a wonderful inlluence upon the an
tient Romans, who were proud ol recur
rins* to the intellectual treatuics c. an
tiquity as a foundation for their legifia
tive policy. .
In after times, this fame light o
knowledge illumined the fore lis o; Gau
and Germany. The lavages that mha
bited them would have been happy hat
they been free ; but it was their fate n
common with the reft of mankind to b.
governed by arbitrary tyrants ; and i
was the policy of these tyrants to keq
their fubiefts in a state of civil and reli
,ious barbarism, by holding up phar.
Toms to their view, and terrific image,
as the world to come, which beam,
the more dreadful as the natural objett:
r>f human hope became those ot tertoi
open the eyes of mankind, infouu
decree, at this fad period,arofe two me.
of Utters, Rabelai s and Michael C ervan
tes one in France and the otnel
Spain, whofeunited efforts, tho in a dif
ferent way, gave a Wow, the one to i
power of the Monks, which.thasne
ver since recovered ; and the other, tc
.he fp.rit of Chivalry, which was a.
hat time carried to a ridiculous an.
o'f.hcfe " books, J-
Ml P ,i» S l.i ns l.kccl„l<lt»,.ndfc(re | -
■d themselves to be reformed—'Telema
hus next appeared, and this book in
luced men to begin to reflect on the na
ural harmony and order of things in
he world. A grand revolution in po
itics was the consequence. Bothfov
■.reigns and iubje&s now betook tn^ m ~
elves to encouraging and pra&mng
he ufeful arts, commerce, agriculture,
md, above all,, cultivating rational opi
nions in regard to the deity. 1 i^1 s
nortal work comprehends in itlelf the
ine imagination of Homer and the wn
lom of the political and relig ous max
ms-of Confucius, the Chinele philolo
pher. It was instantly tranllated mtc
ill the languagesof Europe. It was not
inly in France that it was admired—
here were many other provinces an.l
sarts of Europe where it was then and
las ever since been one of the firii books
iut into the hands of children. When
he Er.glifh army entered the province
,f Carnbray, with the allied army, the
>{&cers used every argument with Mon
ieur Fenelon, the author, (who lived
here in a fort of bamfhment, remote
rom the court) td honour their camp
vith his presence, and partake of a mi
liary feaft. Buthis modesty would not
uffer him to'comply with their request ;
md he kept himfelf concealed for fear
)f further importunity. I will add one
•irciimftahce, which is greatly to the
,onour of this prelate. He was the on
y man living of whom Louis the i4 la
,vas jealous.—He had reason to be so—
or whillt he was making himfelf fear
>d and admired by his armies, his viC
ories his court entertainments, his
leets,' and the fplcndour of his designs,
""enelon enjoyed all that the other
,van ted: and was adored by mankind
>nly so' having wutte.-i a book !
FRANCE, Sept. 15-"*s- ,
Tranjtations from the Lcydcn Gazette and other
French Papers.]
IT ha* been observable from the tr
ior of the proceedings of the national
alfembly, that they have uniformly
piirfued vtith the mofc Icrupulous rigoi
that system which appertains t'o-titles,
decorations and what ever elle relate:
to the old Frenchchivalry and whicl
Montesquieu regarded as the great in
citement to honor in monarchies, bu'
which the new legators have thrown
yehind the curtain in favor of then
cheme for constitutional equality —:
his principle should succeed, so as t(
become general fn Europe, the pro
-.able effect will be, that the more uie
ful virtues will take place of the briili
jnt and the fplendid —we fha'.l, m ou
new transformation, shake oft trie 'an
d" w'im>s of the butterfly but Ihali at
{'lithe others of a more homely thougf
stronger texture, for the advancemen
of the general happiness of man, anc
exalting the dignity of the fpeeies tc
heights°hitherto unknown.
An opulent native of Franc? was of
his travels through Greece last Julv
when he heard the news of the deat.
of the celebrated Mirabcau, by a Mai ten
Tartane. The indisposition of oneofhi:
companions had induced him toma.u
I'ome ftav in the ancient city of Athen:
now called Hetines) where they had toi
lome time employed themlelves in vitit
ine the Pireum, and making oblerva
'ions upon the remains of antiquity
hereabouts. The tower of Demoh
acnes, which is yet (landing, and af
fords Ihelter in the lower itory to -
jrotherhood of Capuchin friars, gave
hem the idea of eredtinj upon this im
mortal clalTic ground a monument of
he fame kind to the memory of Miu
3eau. Having gathered up some bro
ken pieccs from the ruins of the fem
ale of Jupiter Olympus, they railed
1 fort of mutilated pillar, leveral feet
in height, on thetop of which they pla
ced a large cockade with the.e woids
inferibed thereof, —To the memory of Ml-
N U MB. 14.
rabc'au, the Demojthenes of France. Mr.
Melcombe, one ol fellow travellers, b,
added below, Bcnijoil i'homme qui rejpec
cra ces purres.
The national assembly nave vouch
.sfed to recommend io mothers and to
wives the inculcating the new consti -
tutional principles upon the minds of
their children. But let us look into
his matter : Have they made a single
aw which permits the female part of the
community to act or think like free a-
The children they bring into the
world they, by law, have no property in.
The husband, if he is a spendthrift,
may even fell his wife, if he pleases, for
any thing the national assembly has
lone to prevent him. The man, in
raft, is sole possessor of the goods of
he family ; he can do almost whatever
ie pleases ; and although there is an end
to despotic power in the person of the
king, it is not yet abolished in respect to
he power of the husband over the wile,
jut is left like the toothings on a rough
wall, to disgrace the beauty of an edi
sice, in all other respects highly finished
md beautiful to the eye.
In the present momentary (lumber of
he arts a public spirited company
if ast ids have rou fed from the general
lethargy, and are preparing a work
which will remain a lading monument
of the national genius of France. Eigh
teen capital sculptors have united their
abilities to croft this great work, a mo
ld of which maybe seen at the Feuillans.
This monument will be in the figure of
1 column and may be called truly trium
phal, since the (lory of all the different
viftories of liberty over tyrants and ty
ranny at different periods of time are to
be represented upon nine reliefs, which
will separate the column into as many
horizontaT zones. The statue of Liber
ty is to appear on the summit. Allego
rical figures, in relief, relating to the
French constitution will decorate the
base, with the statutes of the four philo
sophers who may be considered as the
anthors of the liberties of France.—
The column is to be two hundred and
sixty six feet high.
The National Assembly, being defi
rous of establishing a uniformity of
weights and measures in the kingdom
of France, have ordered the Academy
as Sciences to make the necessary prepa
rations for this purpose. In confe
rence of this order, the commissioners
appointed by the Academy are proceed
ing as expeditiously as possible to accom
plish this great object. Their operati
ons, however,- will be attended with
considerable expcnce ; some having esti
mated it in gross, at ieveral millions,
liutthecommiflioncrs' estimate is only
300,000 livres {£. 22,500 Pennsylvania
currency). The length of time necefia
ry for completing the operations has
likewise been much exaggerated—but
the Commifficners have given it as their
opinion, that two years will be fuffici
cnt. Great numbers of labourers are
already engaged, and numbers of peo
ple are soon to set out on long journies
;n consequence of the nature of the de
ugn ; which is, in the firft place, to mea
ure a quadrant of the meridianbetween
L> unk i 1 k and Barcelona, and from thence
-Seduce iuch observations and expert
ments as will tend to establish a deter
minate, invariable unit or firft simple
iUndai u of measure.
It is commonly said that money is the
sinews of war. Waris much talkedof
by several European nations, but let us
:onfider a moment whether theypoffefs
the means of re-commencing any wars
very speedily. —As to Rufiia, (he isomer
head and ears in debt, without credit,
ar>d her paper felling at a loss of 26 per
cent. The King of Sweden is in a situ
ation not much better. In his last war
with Ruffu, it is well known that his
kingdom, at best thinly peopled, facri
ficed at leaftoue hundred thousand taen.Ko onecanbe ignorant of theenormou:
debts of Lng.and. The principal trea
, Ur n S r° ' c ° untl 7 in from th<
-halt-Indies, where Tippoo Saib, it-i:
thought, will finally prove too might]
for them. Should thisfecond Alexandei
the great fueled in his splendid defier
of driving the British out of India, lh<
-ban India company will become bank
rupt. It can be proved that a threi
years maritime war would drain th<
Treasury of London to the laftfarthin<r
and if a revolutional spirit should feiz<
the people, universal confufion woulc
be the lflue in that Island. The finance:
or ilol.and are in but a poor conditi
on. Ihe main sources, that formerly
rendered this republic so flourifhing
are now dryed up ; and their Eaft-Indi;
company is in a forlorn condition. A 1
their misfortunes arise from the failurt
oftheir revolution. In refpea to Pruf
fia, her finances are yet in tolerable gooc
order, thanks to the ceconomy of the
Late King ; but his maxims and pruden
tial rules of government are too mucl
neglected by his successor. There ar<
in his treasury about 90 millions of ri>
dollars, out of which the present state o
his affairs will oblige him to expenc
eighteen millions in less than two year:
to come ; and one more year of wa:
would prodigiously rcducethe capital.—
Ihe 1 souse ot Austria muffc exert th(
ftriftcft ceconomy to put its finances ir
any thing of a respectable situation, th<
war with the Turks and intestine revo
lutions having a good deal exhauftec
tneir treasury. 1 hey have re-conquer
ed the Belgic provinces, it is true
but the vast military force they are O'
bliged to keep up in those provinces
consumes, not only the three million:
annual tax paid by them, but also agrea:
deal more in addition thereto. The pur
fes of mod of the German Princes an
empty liach individual among then
counts too much upon his rank as ;
great sovereign to think of ceconomy ir
their expenditures—Upon the whole
a European league of powers againf
France may be coniidercd as a vifionar)
project, contrived by persons who art
ignorant of the real character of the
French Nation, and who would wish ti
compound with us for the enjoyment o
certain privileges, and at the fame tim<
perfuadc us to interweave in our
Ccnftitution the feeds of feudal ty
ranny.
LEGISLATURE of PENNSYLVANIA.
The Address of the Senate to THO
MAS MItFLIN, Governor of th
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Sir,
WE are happy in the information tha
the measures pursued by the late general aj
fembly have contributed, to the welfare 0
tnis fate ; and the fatisfaElion arising frov
a confeioufnefs of having endeavored"to per
form their duty, is the mof grateful reccm
pence those concerned in public affairs car
receive for their labors.
Amid.fl the various important fibjefls con
tained in your address, we dwell with plea
sure on your communications relative t,
roads and canals, and the confeqv.ent pro
babdity of an easy and fife communication
between the mof dijlant parts 0} the fate
incfnuch as the undertaking of works of fuel
extent and public utility affords an incon
trovertible eiidence of the wealth of the fate
the patriotism of its citizens, and the 'effica
cy of its government. To the completion. 0)
these great objeEls we look forward with a de
gree of folicitudeproportioned to their influ
ence on the public prosperity.
Ine consideration of the fubjeßs recom
mended to the notice of the legfature myoui
address will engage our early attention ; am
wejhad efeem ourflves peculiarly happy
if the result of our deliberations fkall me a
the approbation of our conflituents, anc,
■contribute to the happmtfs of our country.
Il'e cannot refrain, on this occafon, frov
txprefing ourfenfe of the advantages, whia
have been derived from the diligent and pa
triotic discharge of the duties of the execu
tive ; we ajjure you, fr, that no exertion.
shall be wanting on our part to enableyoi
to discharge I,'ie. confilutional functions 0
your importantflation with deliberation am
dignity,
By order of the Senate,
RICHARD PETERS, Speaker.
Tuesday, Dec. 13, J791.
A few Copies of the Report of the Secretary
of State ore the fubjed of the Cod and WhaL
Fifheries —may be had at the office, No. 230,
High-free!,
PHILADELPHIA.
Dscember 15.
CONGRESS.
house of representatives.
, Monday, Dec. 12.
A report was read from the Secretary
of the 1 reafury on the memorial o
George Webb.
1 etitions of sundry inhabitants o
Northumberland county } in Pcnnfylva
nia, were read, praying a repeal-os tha
part of the excise ast that refpefts th<
duty on spirits diftitied from the pro
duce of the United States—Referred tc
the Secretary of the Treasury.
A petition of Thomas Smith wa
read, praying settlement of a clain
again it the L'nited States for fervicc
during the war—Referred to the Se
cretary at war.
A petition of Gilbert Dcnch was read
praying reimbursement of monies paic
by him during the war, for transport
ing military flores on account of the
United States—Referred to the Secre
tary of the 1 reafury.
A petition of Charles Hately, of S
Carolina, was read, praying an exclu
hv e prior right of patent in a machine o:
his invention for cleaning rice—Refer
red to the Secretary of State.
A message was received from th<
President of the United States, by Mr
Lear, Kis Secretary, relative to th<
Western Expedition against thehoftih
Indians, under Gen. St. Clair.
The papers referred to in the meffag
>vere read,and ordered to lie on the table
I he house then proceeded to confide:
he amendments proposed by the Se
late to the bill for apportioning the re
orefentation of the people of the Uni
ed States according to the firft enume
ration.
Some progress being made in confi
lering the amendments, the house ad
ourned before any queltion was taker
hereon.
Tuesday, Dec. 13.
Petitions of Qbadiah Gore, adminif
.iatoi of the estate of Lieut. limoth\
i'iercc, decealed, and of William Wim
praying compenl'ation for services per
formed, were read and referred to the
Secretary at War.
A petition of John Frederick Ame
-ung, proprietor of the glass manufac
ory at New-Bremen, in the state o
Maryland, was presented to the house
md read, praying the patronage o
Mongrel's to his undertaking, and tha'
government will aflift him with a loai
jf money, or other means to further the
ame.
A memorial of James Wilson anr'
others, in behalf of tlie land companies
jf the Illinois and Oubache, was pre
ented to the house and read, prayins
0 be permitted to exhibit the titles o
he companies to certain western lands
leretofore purchased by the said com
sanies under the fanftion of lawful au
hority ; and also to make certain pro
jofals for a reafona'ble compromise be
ween them and the United States.
The laid memorial was referred tc
Vlsff. Livermore, Fitzfimons & Clarke
A message in writing was receivec
rora the President of the United States.
))• Mr. Lear, his Secretary, as follows;
United States, Dec. 13, ,
Gentlemen of the Senate, and.
of the House of Representatives.
1 PLACE before you the plan of a Cih
hat has been laid out within the diflritl c
■ wutes [quart, win h was fixed upon foi
he p • morient feat of the government op th<
Jnited States.
G. WASHINGTON
A message from the Senate was deli
■•ered by Mr. Secretary Otis, givinc
nformation, that they had palled (with
•ertain amendments) a bill, lent to the;::
rom the house, " for the relief of D,
and T. Campbell," and request
ing the concurrence of the house in the
uid amendments.
1 he house then resolved itfelf into s
1 ommittee of the whole, and proceeded
o the consideration of the amendment;
propoled by the Senate to the reprefen
ationbill ; and after some debate,^dila-
Jieed to the firft, by which it was pro
moted to alter the ratio of representation
—and agreed to the other, which is
nerely a verbal alteration.
Ihe committee having risen, and
nade their report, the house adjourned.
The following mefTage from the President wa.<
on Monday presented by his Secretary Mr,
Lear, to both Iloufes ol the Legiilature of the.
United' States. y 1 v
United States, Dec. 12. 1791.
jentlemmof tkc Striate and Houjc of Ript jenta
tives :
11" is with great concern that I communicatc
Jo you the information received from Major
general St. Clair, of the misfortune that has be
alien the troops under his command.
Although the national loss is conliderable, ac
'ording to the scale of the event, yet it may b;
'epaired without great difficulty, excepting as •<
he brave men who have fallen on the cccafion
:nd who are a fubjecl of public as well as privati
egret.
A further communication will fhortlv be mad;
1 a " luch matters as (hall be neceflaiy toenabit
he Legifiature to judge of the future measure:
vfaich it may be proper to pursue.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
Fort-Wajhingtm, Oclober 6, 1791.
SIR,
T Have now the fatisfaflion to inform you tha
1 the army moved from fort Hamilton, the
''me I have given to the fort on the Miami, 01
he 4th at eight in the morning, under the com
nand of General Butler. The order of niarcl
>»d encampment I had regulated before, and or
he third returned to this place to get up the mi
ma i hey marched yesterday, and confifl o
Jut about three hundred men, as you will fee b\
•ie encioledabdraet of the mutter. I have rea
on to believe, however, that at lead an equa
lumber will be up here by the loth, and I hav<
orders for their following us. The month
y return Ibould have accompanied this letter, bu
t was not ready when I left camp, and has' no
Deen forwarded since. 1 have hitherto found i
mpoffible to reduce the officers command™
:orps to punctuality with refped to their returns
jut they are mending. Oui numbers, after de
fueling the garrisons of this place and fort Ha
m ton, are about twothoufand, exclulive of th<
J' 1 Ir "" ' a '' Hnd them fufficient; anr
hould ihe reft of the militia come on, it wil
nake the matter pretty certain. But the feafor
s now so far advanced, that 1 fear the inrerme
l )o '. ts ' whlch w O"ld indeed have been hioh
,y aec ; f,ar y. >t Will be impoflible to eflabbfh :°i,
bat, however, 1 mull be governed by circum
lanfcs, of which I will take care that you fhal
>e apprized in due time. Should the enemt
:ome to meet us, which feenjs to be'expefled
1 ° e difcomfited, there will be no difficulties
)ut it they expett us.it the Miami villages th,
iiilinefs will wear another face, and the interme
• iate polls become mote cffential.
I am this moment setting out for the army
a ,lcn hope to overtake to-morrow evening
ind will wnte to you as loon after as may be. "
V\ Ith great regard and refpefl,
1 have the honor to be,
Sir, your very humble servant
ARTHUR St. CLAIR.
The Honorable
Major-General KNOX,
Secretary of War.
Camp, 81 miles advanced n/firt Wajkinatcn,
Nov. 1, 1701.
SIR. /y
SINCE I had the honot to write to you on tht
-Mtt in..ant, nothing very material has happened
>nd indeed I am so unwell (and have been so Fo,
ome time past) that I could ill detail it, if it hac
Happened —not that that (pace ofiime has bcei
entirely barren of incidents; but as few of then
lave been of the agreeable kind, I yoi
0 accept n fort of journal account of them, whicl
will be the cafjeit lor n-,j.
On the sad, the indilpofilion that had hun
about me for some tip.:-:. sometimes appearing a'
1 bilious cholic, and lometimes as a iheumati.
il-ima, to my great l.tisfaflion chanced 10 ;
sCut 111 the left arm and hand, leaving tha brcaf
and homaeh perfeflly relieved, and the couT
whitn had been exce l!,ve, entirely gone. Thi
..ay v r. IJljs, with fixtyjmlitiafrom Kentucky
fl™.r % my ' a j d ' )rou o ht up a quantity o
i tn r,!'r ln " we "' «aken in the
in r 1) ~° 1 and one for (hoot
„ anoi.ie, lohiier and threatening to kill an of.
h-r v: tc oan cd upon the -rand parade, tht
Ive hTd ' ]r " An ° Ut " Since the arm,
have halted, the country round this and a heat
lor tuteen m;l« hi., been well examined : ftis;
cou.itn which had we arrived a month foone
hev ZZ v. i ' :meS '' I£nLllT iberoi animals
they would have been all fat now. 24 th Na
med the fort JrJfnJon v it l le s in lat. 40. A N
and . irchcd, the fame Ind,an pathlervingn
~oodT Ul 1 m:le3 ' and encamped o.
good ground and an excellent pofition-a m ule
a , out, and a very large praire, which would a
ns. proper season afford forage for a thou fane
V'a k" left ' So 1,1 lh ' s 'lav that I hac
much difficulty ,n keeping with the army. 25th
Very hard rains last nigh,-obliged to halt lo
On account of provilion ; for though the sol
of provtlions arriving, they canno
hear.to march in advance and take no,,- a l on ,
;w.hin-m. Received a letter from Mr. Hod-one'
by c cpicls ; 1 3000 wt . flour wjn jrmf
: , 26ni - A paity of militia sent to rccor-oi
" Wl 'h uve Indians, ar.d fuffered "he '
•o ihp though th. tr fingers: dieir can" aitT
-harmed by colonel Dr- ' c to-' 'v. --il,, Gave
-.rders for enfiftiag the levies, with the coidition
)c serving out their tune in their prefentcorps.
\amingo arrived in ihe camp with his wairiors:
was so unwell, could only fee him and bid him
elcome, but entered on no business. Contider
ble diffatisfatlion among the levies about
heir enliflments. 28th, Some clothing Tent for
ofort Waflnngton for the recruits arrived, was
.egun to be distributed, and will have a good ef
ecl; but the enhfiing the levies does not meet
vith the encouragement that might have been
•xpeQed : it is not openly complained of by the
;!iicers, but it is certainly privately by fonie of
ugh rank, and the meufure of tempting them
viih warm cloathing condemned; Mr Hodg
!on writes me that he is fending forward a qual
ity of woolen overalls and socks by General
Butler's orders. I have ordered them to be He
lofited at fort Jefferfon. Some few Indians
bout us, probably those the militia fell in with
: day or two ago. Two of the levies were fir-d
ipon about three miles off, ore killed : two of
he nulma l.kew.fe, one of them got in, and the
.ther milling, supposed to be taken, iqih, Fy~
mingo and his people, accompanied by ca'ptnin
>par,;s and .our good riflemen, gone on a fcotlt
hey do notpropole tp return under ten days Uri
els they fooncr succeed in taking pnloners'and
ca ps 30th, Ihe army moved about nine
) clock, and with much difficulty , rl ! e f ev . ca
rules, having left a considerable part of the tetits
>y the way ; the provision made by the quart tr
naller sot that purpole was not adequate—thdee
jays flour illued to ihe men to aid the borfestljat
:arned it to his arrangements; the Indian ro id
■ :ll with us—the courfc this day N. sc. VV.
J lfl, 1 ills morning about sixty of the militia dt
erted—it w>as at hrll repoited that half of the n
"d gone 08, and that their design was to plu, 1-
-er the convoys which were upon the road—d:>-
acl-.ed the fill! regiment inpurfuitof them, witli
Jidcrs to major Hamtramck to lend a fufficicnt
j Be , nham whenever he met v.-i;!t
11m, and follow them about tweniv-five milc-i
)elow fort Jefferfon, or until he met ihe fecondi
onvoy, and then return and jAin ihe army. Ben
ram arrived laft.mght, and to-day Nov .'iff, thei
umy is halted tog.ve the road-cuttars'an epoet
in,yu. getting lome distance a-head, and that;
i might write to you-I am this day confiden
tly recovered, and hope that it will turn out what
• at hrlt expefled it would be, a friendly fit of :
he gout come to relieve me from every other
:omplaint
Yeflerday I was favored with yours of the 28.b
md 29th September, [ have enclosed my coin
nunications with the old and new contraflow
ind their an wers— My orders for the polls to
hem are not yet definite, but they will be very
oon, in the mean time I expect they are both at
vork.
With great refpeft I have the honor to be,
Sir, your mod obedient servant,
ARTHUR St CLAIR.
The Honorable
Major-General KNOX,
Secretary of War.
Fort JVaJhington, Nov. 9, 1791.
S 1 Rj '
afternoon the remains of the
irrny under my command got back to this place,
md have now the painful talk to give you an
iccount of as warm and unfortunate an afiion as
ilmolt any that has been fought, in which every
orps was engaged and worfled, except the firfl
cgiment—that had been detached upon a fer
"ce I had the honor to inform you of in my Jaft
HI patch, and had not joined me.
On the third lnflant the army had reached a creek
bout twelve yard, wide, running to the fouth
vard of weft, which 1 believe to have been ihe
iver St. Mary, that empties itfelf into the Miami
the lake; arrived at the Miami village, about
t 0 clock yi the afternoon, having marched near
1 miles, and were immediately encamped unon
1 very commanding piece of ground in two lines
"laying the above mentioned creek in front The
Ight wing com poled of Butler's, Clark's and
. atterlon s battalions, commanded by maior-gen
'fa fo ™ cd th e firfl line, and the'left
<v.ng consisting of Bedinger's and Gai.her's bau
a 10ns, and the second regiment commanded by
leutenant-colonel Daike, formed the second line
A'Uh an interval between them of about seventy
ru ■7 n h > W3S a " ,!,e S rourlcJ w o»ld allow
t lie light flank was pretty well secured by the
-reek, a deep bank and Faulkner's corps; foms
1 CaV ? I,V a , nd thcir P'quets covered .he left
lank. Ihe militia were ih.own oyer the crock
■ ldv j a . ri «-<l about one quarter of a mile and en
■ampedinthe lame order. There were a f-w
Indians who appeared on the opposite fide of tb~
• reek but fled with the utmofl precipitation on
j . advani:c , of t!,e mill Ha. At this place, which
1 judged to be about fifteen miles from the Mi
inn village, I had determined to throw up a flight
K'ori;, the plah of which was concerted that ever
ng with major Fergufon, wherein to have depo
ned the men's knapsacks, and every thin, elle
hat was not of absolute necelfitv, and to"have
noved on to attack the enemy as 'soon as the lirft
•egtment was come up ; but they did not ner
mt me to execute either- for on the 4 th, about
a f?r' e sunrise, and when ihe men
been n J"I difmiffcd from the paiade Tor it
"as a conflant practice to have them all under
irms a considerable time before day-light) an at
ack was made upon the militia-thofe gave way
n a very little time, and ruflied into camp through
najor Butler's battalion, which, together with
art of Clarke's, they threw into considerable
ionl Jt a u u W r lCll i nolwiti iftanding the exer
■ons of boih those officers, was never altonether
cmeaied the Indians following close at their
leels. Ihe fire, however, of the fiiU lineChecked ihem, but almost instantly a very hea
vy attack began upon that line, and in a few mi
nutes it was extended to the second like wife—the
great weight of it was dire&ed against the centrt
of each, where the artillery was placcd, and frorc
which the men were repeatedly driven with
great Daughter. Finding no great effect from ou
fire, and confufion beginning to spread from th<
great number of men who were falling in al
quarters it became neccffary to try what could be
done by the bayonet. Lieutenant Colonel Darl
was accordingly ordered to make a charge wit!
part of the second line, and to turn the left flanl
of the enemy—this was executed with great fpi
nt—the Indians infiantly gave way, and were dri
ven back three or four hundred yards; but so
want of a- fufficient number of riflemen to purfut
this advantage, they soon returned, and the troop
were obliged to give back in their turn —At thi
moment they had entered our camp bv the lef
flank, having pushed back the troops that wer<
polled there. Another charge was made here b]
the lecond regiment, Butler's and Clarke's bat
talions, with equal effect, and, it was repeate<
several times, and always with success; in all o
them many men were loft, and particularly tin
officers, which with fo'raw troops, was a loss al
together irremediable.—ln that just spoke of
iuflde by the 2nd regiment, and Butler's battal
lion major Butler was dangero.ufly wounded, am
every officer of the 2nd regiment {fell, excep
three, one of whom, Mr. Grcaton, was (hot thro
the body. Our artillery being now lilenced, an<
all the officers killed, except Capt. Ford, wh<
was very badly wounded, and more than half o
the army fallen, being cut off from the road, 1
became ncceffary to attempt the regaining it, ant
to make a retreat, if pofiible.—To this purpof
the remains of the army were formed, as well a
circumstances would admit, towards the right o
the encampment, from which by the way of thi
«nd line, another charge was made upon the ene
my, as if with the design to turn their right flank
but, in fact to gain the road, —This was effe&ed
and, as soon as it was open, the militia tool
along it, followed by the troops, major Clarke
with his battalion, covering the rear. The re
treat, in these circnmfiances, was, you may b<
sure, a very precipitate one—it was, in fa£, ;
flight—The camp and the artillery were aban
doned : but thai was unavoidable, for not an horl<
was lefialive, to have drawn it off, had it other
wife been practicable. But the molt difgracefu
part of the bufinefsis, that the greater part of th<
men threw away their arms and accoutrements
even after the pui suit, (which continued abou
four miles) had ceased. I found the road strew
ed with them for many miles, but was not able t<
remedy it; for having had all my horses killed
and being mounted upon one that could not b<
pricked out of a walk, I could not get for wan
myfelf; and the orders I sent forward, either t<
halt the front, or to prevent the men from parting
with their arms, were unattended to.
The route continued quite to fort Jefferfon
twenty-nine miles, which was reached a little as
ter sun-setting.
The a&ion began about half an hour befor<
fun-rife, and the retreat was attempted at half ar
hour after uine o'clock.
1 have not yet been able to get returns of the
killed and wounded : but major-general Butler
lieutenant-colonel Oldham of the militia; majoi
Fergufon, major Heart, and major Clarke, art
among the former. Colonel Sargent, my adju
tant-general,heutenaut-colonel Dark, lieutenant
rolone! Gibfon, major Butler, and the Vifcoun
Malartie, who feived me as an aid-cte-camp, an
among the latter, and a great number of captain:
and subalterns in both.
I have now, Sir, finifhed my melancholy tale—
a tale, that will be felt sensibly by every one tha
has sympathy for private distress, or for publii
misfortune. I have nothing, . v ir, to lay to th<
charge of the troops but their want of dilcipline
which, from the short time they had been in fer
vice, it was impossible they should have acquired
and which rendered it verry dillicult, when thei
were thrown into confufion, to reduce them agaii
to order, and is one reason why the loss has fallei
so heavy upon the officers, who did every thing ii
their power to effc6t it ; neither were my owi
etertions wanting, but worn down with illness, ant
fulTering under a painful disease ; unable either t<
mount, or dismount an horse, without assistance
they were not so great as they otherwise would
and perhaps, ought to have been.—We weri
overpowered by numbers; but it is no more thai
justice to observe, that though composed of so mair
different species of troops, the utmoil harmon]
prevailed thro the whole army during the cam
paign.
At fort Jefferfon, I found the firft regiment
which had returned from the service they had beei
sent upon without either overtaking the deserter
or meeting the convoys of provision. I am not cer
tain, Sir, whether 1 ought to cvnfider the abfenc<
of this regiment from the field of a&ion as for
tfinate, or otherwise—l incline to think it wa
fortunate; for I very much doubt whether hat
it been in the a&ion, the fortune of the day ha<
been turned : and if it had not, the triumph o
the enemy would have'been m«re complete, an<
the country would have been deftkute ever
means of defence.
Taking a view of the situation of our brokei
troops at Fort Jefferfon, and that there was no pro
visions in the Fort, I called upon the field officers
viz, Lieutenant Colonel Dark, Major
Major Zeigler, and Major Gaither, together wit!
the Adjutant-General for their advice, what woulc
be proper further to bedone, and it was their unani
mous opinion, that the addition of the ft regiment,
unbroken as it was, did not put the army on fc
refpe&able a footing as it was in the morning, be
cause a great part of it was now unarmed —that it
had been then found unequal to the enemy; and
fhotild they come on, which was probable, would
be found so again—That the troops could not be
thrown into the Fort, both because it was so fmail
and that there were no provisions in it—That
provisions were known to be upon the road at the
distance of one, or at most two marches,--Thai
therefore it would be proper to move, without lofi
time to meet the provisions, when the nter
might have the sooner an opportunity of some re
frefhment, and that a proper detathment migln
be sent back with it to have it fafely deposited ir
the Fort. This advice was accepted, and the ar
my put in motion again at 10 o' clock and mar
ched a]l uight, and the succeeding day met with ;
quanti ty of flour ; part of it was distributed im
mediately ; part taken back to supply the army or
the* march to Fort Hamilton, and the remain
der, about fifty horse loads, sent forward to Fori
Jeffcrfcn ; the next day a drove of cattle was mei
with for the fame place, and I have information
that both got in : The wounded who had been lefi
at that place, were ordered to be brought here by
the retnrn herfes.
1 have said, Sir, in'a former part of this letter
that we were overpowered by numbers : of that,
however, I have no other evidence but the weighi
of the fire, which was always a mod deadly one
arid generally delivered from the ground, few o!
the enemy (hewing themselves on foot, except
when they were charged ; and that in a few mi
nutes our whole camp, which extended above
three hundred and fifty yards in length, was entire
ly surrounded and attacked on all quarters.
The loss, Sir, the public has sustained by the sal
of so many officers, particularly general Butler anc
major Fergufon, cannot be too much regretted
but it is a circumstance that will alleviate the mis
fortune in some measure, that til of them fell mod
gallantly, doing their duty. I have had verj
particular obligations to many of them, as well a
to the survivors, but to none more than to colone
Sargent —He has discharged the various duties o:
his office with zeal, with exaitnefs and with in
telligence, and on all occasions afforded me even
assistance in his power, which 1 have also experi
-need from my aid-de-camp, lieutenaut Denny
md the Viscount Malartie, who served with m
in the station as a volunteer.
With every sentiment of refpedl and regard
I have the honor to be, fir,
Your moll obedient servant,
ARTHUR St. CLAIR
The Honorable
Major-General KNOX,
Secretary of War.
■ P. S. Some orders that had been given to co
lonel Oldham over night, and which were o:
much conlequence, were not executed ; anc
foine very material intelligence was communica
:ed by captain Slough to general Butler, in the
course of the night before the action, which wai
never imparted to me, nor did 1 hear of it until
after my arrival here.
Lijl of the killed and wounded Officers in the baltli
of the Ath November, 17q 1.
KILLED.
Major-General.— Richard Butler.
Lieut.-Colonel.—Oldham, Kentucky militia.
Majors. —Fergufon, Clark, and Hart.
Captains. —Bradford, Phelon,Kirkwood, Price
Van Swearingen, Tipton, Smith, Purdy, Piatt,
Suthne, Cribbs, and Newman.
Lieutenants.—Spear,Warren,Boyd, M'Math
Burgess Kelfo, Read, Little, Hopper, anc
Lickens.
Enligns.—Cobb, Balch, Chace, Turner, Wil
"on, Biooks, Beatty, and Purdy.
Oearter-Mafters. —Reynolds, and Ward.
Adjutant. —Anderfon.
Dottor. — Graflon.
WOUNDED.
Lieutenant-Colonels. —Gibfon, Darke, anc
Sargent, adju ant-general.
Major. —Butler.
Captains.—Doyle, Truman, Ford, Buchan
len, Darke, and Slough.
Lieutenants.— Greaton, Davidfon, De Butts :
Price, Morgan, M'Creary, Lyfle, &'lhompfon.
Ensign.—Bines.
Adjutants. —Whifller, and Crawford.
The Viscount Malartie, who aftedasa volun
:eer aid-de-camp.
[The above Lift v.-as forwarded by quarter
nailer Hodgdon, at Fort Walhington, to the Se
:retary of War.]
In several of the Eastern papers, received by
rue-lday's pnft, appears a circumstantial account
,f the t'ranfa&ions that p,iffed at the Sandwich
Islands betwejn the natives and the crew of the
inow Elinora, Capt. Medcalfe, ot New-York,
n January 1790. The fublfance of the whole nar
atn e is com prized in riie tollowing paragraph.
In the latter end of January J79°» r he Elinora
inchored in one of the iiays of Mowhee, !at. 19.
on. 168 E. and trade was cftabliihed with the
latives for such produce as the Jflani| afforded.
During the (lay of the Snow in this bay, the cut
ler was one night stolen from the stern, together
.vith the boat keeper who was on board. It was
loon after discovered that the cutter had been ta
ken to pieces by the lflanders, and the boat keep
•r offered ud as a facrifke to the gods of the lii
and, only his thigh bones being afterwards brought
m board, which Capt- Medcalf threw into the
lea and resolved upon taking e*emplary ven
geance the firft opportunity.—Soon afrer,the trade,
.vhich had been interrupted for foine days, re
lomm.nced. Two hundred and twelve canoes
:ame along fide [another account fays 170 or 180]
tilled with men, women, and children of ail
ages, imagining that no ill was intended them.
Capt. Medcalf now f,aw a fair opportunity of
making the natives pay severely for the death of
Ihe boat keeper. In this view he ordered all his
<*uns to be loaded with muiket balls, lav
tfrafef nails &c and to be discharged at the fame
in ftant into the canoes. This dreadful order, not
withstanding the remonstrances of several ot hi:
officers, was obsveJ, snd many hundreds of peo
ple torn to pieces—The Snow soon after failed frorr.
the I Hand, and in fix weeks after a fchoonei ar
rived there belonging to Capt. MedcaJf, the crew
of which were murde»ed by the natives,' as men
tioned in one of our former papers.
ExtraEl of a Utter fom Cape-Francois, dated No
vember 3.
I t( ~x be day before yejlerday in the morning, ive
took tbe Camp of Lim'be. lr- r e kihed the general
Jar,not and took tbe king Jean Louis and queer.,
alive, as also tbe curate of the parifo, that ivas at
the head of tie blacks. ' They are all in goal, a?;d
their jate will be Joon determined. We have lofi
J'cven men, and wounded.
" Matters now b gein to take a better turn ; the
blacks are flawing, and so much discouraged that
ive hope row to Jce an end to this melancholy af
fair. On that Jame day ive re/cued 31 tvbite wo
men that bad been for tivo months paji chained
'■with the blacks 5 tbey were really the pißure of
death ivben tbey landed
FOR the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
MUCH has been said in Congress on the sub
jeCt of the enumeration, and to be sure if
cue pun) and direCt expreflions of the constitution
on this lubjeCt are to be departed from, it would
be well to confiderfor what reason or in pursuit of
what principle it is to be done—Let it be remem
bered that the Federal Government is founded on
a folemo compact of sovereign and independent
states, and in its formation is laid by the conven
tion that framed it to be, " the result of a spirit
*' of amity, and of that mutual deference and
if concejpon which the peculiarity of our political
" iituation rendered indifpenfible."—Let it also be
remembered that this concefiicn is manifefted on
he one hand by the large states in admitting an
equal representation in the Senate, and on the
other hand by thelmall states in admitting a re
prelentation in the House of Representatives ac
cording to the refpeElive numbers of each state,
provided (as a farther security to the small States)
that each state should have at least one Represen
tative. In the election of a President too, it is
observable that the states rejpeElively have a fixed
degree of influence, according to the refpeCiive
numbers of Senators and Representatives to which
they are rejpe&'rvely entitled j nor is this a matter
within the discretion of Congress, .but must result
from the operation of thaft ratio mentioned in the
constitution which forms the principle of repre
fentntion to which the states respeCtively and in
dividually are entitled.—No plausible, specious,
and I will add insidious pretexts of equality, will
juftlfy such a flagrant violation of the constituti
onal rights of states.—But in order to ftiew the
insidious nature of such pretexts and how far
equality is in truth regarded, I subjoin a statement
of the three states of New-Hampshire, Ma/Tachu
letts, and Connecticut, /hewing their relpeCtive
fcederal numbers, the number of members to '
which each of the said states is entitled according
to the ratio of onf for 30,000, and a quotient
therefrom shewing the number of people repre
sented by each member according to the said ap
portionment, and conrrafting therewith a like
statement for the three states of Rhode-lfiand,
Kentuckey ana Georgia, from which contrast it '
will be seen whether equality is in truth desired,
or the incereft of lmall states regarded in the much (
contended for amendments to the original bill '
which pafied the House of Representatives.
Members. Fed. Numbers• 1
N. Hampfliire 4)141,322(35,455") Quotient, I
I Shewing the (
MafTachufetts 15)475,327(31,835 J number of peo t
\ pie r eprejented (
Connecticut 7)236,84i(33,834 ;by each mem- <
\ber according
R. Ifiand 2) 68,447(34,223 I to the appor- I
J tionment of I
Kentucky 2) 68,705(34,352 I on*for thirty I
j thousand• 1
Georgia z) 70,843(35,421J
Accor<Jingto the original bill the reprefentatlon
of the above states will be in the ratio of the res
peCtive quotients.—Two of the fir ft three stand '
already better represented than the last three—and
New-Hampfliire within a very small fj aCtion,as well 1
represented. In order to equalize, you are to '
increase the representation of those best 1
ed, whilst the others are to have no^hacreafe.—ln C
other words, you arc to produce equality by in
creasing the difference—and this to the prejudice
of three small states, whose interest is contended '
for. ;
PLAIN TRUTH.
BALTIMORE, Dec. 9. \
Captain Chalkcr, of the Schooner St. Margaret, .
arrived here from St. Augustine, but last from Ha- [
vanna, informs, that the Britifli are supplying the c
Indians, between East and Weft-Florida, with
arms, cloathing, and materials for war, by means a
of a forced trade, from New-Providence (one of r
the Bahama I He^) through the dominions of Spain, r
under the direction and management of the cele- j
brated general Bowles, who arrived, some time r
since, at Nevy-Providence, from London, with a [
large quantity of arms, ammunition, and cloath- j
ing, accompanied by fix Indian chiefs 5 that the t
Governor of St. Augustine being madi acquaint
ed with the design of general Bowles,' had dispatch- ,
ed three Guarda-Coaftas to cruise on different
parts of the coalt of East-Florida, to intercept ;
him, seize his efFeCts, and fruftrate his plan : That t
on the 22nd of August, Capt. Chalker, on his pas
sage irom St. Augustine to Havanna, in (
42, in 12 fathom water, on the coast of Florida,
spoke Capr. La Crofi>, in a (loop belonging to
New-Providence, who informed him, that hp had
landed general Bowles, and a number of pafTen
gers, at Nad'au, fourteen miles to the fouthwardjof ,
St. Mary's river.
ELIZABETH-TOWN, Dec. 7.
The directors of the t( Society for establishing
Ufeful Manufactures," will meet at Ne'.v-Brunf
wick on Friday next, for the purpose of chufing a
Governor and for conduct
ing the bwfinefs of said society.
The fulfcrif tlons to the Manufactory filled w'tfi
such rapidity, that at the firft meeting of the fub
(cribers at Trenton to chufe Direflors, there ap
peared to be one thousand (hares subscribed for
more than the plan embraced. The Yorkers are
the principal Stockholders in this ufeful Lnditu
:ion ; and, with pleasure we mention, in ths
whole business have acfled with the utmoj liberal
ly towards the subscribers of this (late.
BERLIN, Sept. 14.
Since the ariival of a courier from London, the
lay fixed for the nuptials of his Royal High
lels the Duke of York, is the 29th of this month,
when that ceremony will take place very privaielv.
On the ifi of October, when the marriage of the
hereditary Prince of Orange with Princess Wil
iflmina will be celebrated, the general reioicingg
viil begin, which will lad fourteen days, and con
itt ol every kind ofentertainmentcfthe mod bril
iant kind j the splendor of which will be much
ncreafed by the presence of the Princess of Orange,
he Prince and Princess of Brunfwick, the Duke
>f Weimar, both Dukes of Mecklenburgh, Stre
jtz and Schwetin, the two Englilh Princes from
and other persons of diftin£lion. It is
.hought that the Count d'Artois and several other
French gentlemen will be here at that time.
National AJfembly of France, Srft. 25.
M. Duportail, the Minister at war, gave an ac
:ountof the situation of the armv, and the pl»-
:es of strength on the frontiers. 'The result of his
leta.l was, that from Bergue to Befort, all the
Fortified places were in an excellent (late -of de
fence. Thofeon the frontiers of Savoy, and to
wards the Pyrenees, although not equally provided
(or defence, were in no danger of attack. The
snows coveiing the mountains which separate
France in that quarter from the neighbouring
kingdoms, render any invasion during the winter
mpracHcable, and, in the mean time, every pof
ib;e exertion was making to recruit the troops and
:omplete the fortifications of the garrisons. Of
:he National Guards ordered by the Afrembly for
[he delence of the frontiers, more than sixty bat
:alions were already marched, or ready to march,
0 the,r "fpe<2ive places of deflation. Several
-lad been detained for want of pay, a difficulty
which had been lately removed by the National
Alfembly. Partial disorders dill subsided in some
>f the regiments, but the soldiers in general had
aegun tofubmit themselves to drift military dif
:i|>line; and the completion of the Constitution,
ind its acceptance by the King, would do every
hing that was wanted for the restoration of or
ler. In the course of eight months, the Condi
ution of the army had been totally changed.
1 he nomination of Colonels and Lieutenant
colonels, in the room of those who had been re
noved, or who had resigned, was already com
peted, that of the lubaltern officers was proceed
ing on with all poflible dispatch ; all the officers
if artillery and engineers were appointed : and
here could be no doubt but that the army would
oon be in a date to resist any attack from abroad,
md to be"the firmed support of the Constitution
ind the Ja\vs at home.
To these afiertion 5 of M. Duportail, M. Bouil
e, one of the commilTbners sent into the depart
nent of the north, added others, not less favora
ile to the fubal terns and soldiers of a great number
if regiments. This report, and the memorial of
he Minister, excited great applause, and it was
greed that both (hould be printed
It was represented to M. Duportail, that it was
leceffary that during the year no leave of absence
hould be granted, because all, or almost all the
ifficers being new, it was mod important that
hey (hould learn their duty, and /hould, belide,
omplete, by their presence, the re-eftablilhment
it dilcipline in the military corps.
The Minider obferveii, that on the present
übjetl he had anticipated the wishes of the Af
embly, and that he had addreflid a circular letter
o all the regiments of the armv, announcing
hat leave of absence would not be granted,
LONDON, Sept. 30.
The Ca2ette having at length announced, with
ill possible brevity, his mollChridian Majesty's ta
:ing the oath prescribed by the new Constitution,
ve may now consider official communication with
he Court of France as again opened, and look to
he Gazett; as the authentic record of official
ranfa&ions as usual*
Certain dates have prohibited the introduction
if French Newspapers into their dominions, witli
view to prevent the diflemination of principles
f liberty, as if they could dop the progress of
ight by prohibiting the use of fpcdiacles.
The spirit of emigration is spreading so fad in
he Highlands of Scotland, that whole didrifls
nove oli' together ; and such is the wisdom of the
iroprietors of land, that the only eft'edt produced
y the lofsof half their tenants, is an endeavor to
ouble rents of the other half.
When the news of the King's escape was heard
t Rome, public rejoicings were immediately
nade, which for splendour and magnificence have
lever been equalled in that city, excepting only
iy those in 1573 on accountof the tidings of the
nafiacre of St. Bartholomew. The fame spirit:
eems to have governed at both those rejoicings 1
n one cafe a city giving itfelf up to the mod ex
ravagant joy, and the miniders of the God of
ieace dating to return him thanks for the mafia
re of a vast number of innocent people, who were
elirered up to the vengeance of tyrants and the
lorrors of civil warj and in the other, exprefiing
heir gratitude to heaven for the prolongation of
lefpotifm and national fiavery,—The news of
he King's arred was for a long time not believed,
jut when it could no longer be doubted an agony
.f grief seized every heart, particularly the ecclefi
idicle tribe ; who nevertheless did not despair.
rhis party are dill in hopes of some favorable
:vent—All cr nothing, is their motto ; a redituti
an of the church lands and benefices, or everlaft
ng warfare, temporal power to the clergy or a
jloody v. ar against the human race. The Ro
niffi nobility, appaiently attached to the cause of
:he clergy, seem to partake of their chagrin : but
11 reality are scheming how to turn to their own
advantage that entire revolution which it is cer
aiu Europe mud foor. experienc;.For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
the DRUNKARD'S APOLOGY.
\tVrtiten at an Entertainment on Governor's Ijlard
near New-York. J
YOO blame the blulhes on my nose,
And yet admire the blushing rose )
On Celia's cheek the bloom you prize
And yet on mine that bloom despise.
The wcrid of spirits you admir?j
To which all boly men aspire j
Vet me with curses you requite
Bccaule in spirits ] delight.
Whene'er I fall, and crack my crown (
You blame me much for falling down-
Yet to some god that you adore
You, too, fall proflrate on the floor.
You call me f>o! for drinking hard,
And yet old Hudson you regard
Who fills his jug from yonder bay
And drinks his guts full every day.
STATE of NEW-JERSEY.
■An ACT to incorporate the Contributors to the So
ciety for efiahifbing ufefui rr.aitufaEhirct, ant!fo
tie further encouragement of the said Society.
[Concluded from page 52.J
Sec. 28. And be it further enaftec
by the authority aforefaid. That for th<
well ordering of the affairs of the fait
corporation, there shall be a Mayor
Recorder, twelve Aldermen, and twelvs
assistants, and town clerk, who shall b.
appointed by the council and genera
Assembly of this state, in joint meeting
and commiflioned by the Governor o
this state, and in the fame manner asth<
judges and justices of the peace, anc
clerks of the inferior courts of commoi
pleas and quarter sessions of the peaci
throughout the fhate are appointed anc
commillioned, and be in like manne
amenable to the council and genera
Assembly ; and all other officers anc
ministers of the said town, whole ap
pointments are not herein otherwif
provided for and pretcribed, fliall hi
chofei: by the inhabitants of the laic
town at their annual town meetings
which shall be held at the fame tim<
that the annual town meetings in tin
other townships in the county shall b;
the law be held ; that the flherift anc
coroner being elected by the laid inha
bitants freeholders within the said town
and commiflionedby the said Governor
upon a certificate of their ele&ion, fig
nified by the Mayor or Recorder, whl
any three or more of the Aldermen, am
being so commifiioned, shall or may con
tinue in office one year thereafter, an<
shall be vested with all the power an<
authority during said year, and entitlei
to all the privileges refpe&ively \vithii
the said town, and fubjeft to all the pe
nalties for neglect of duty which th
fheriffs and coroners in the levera
• counties within this state are veftfei
J- with, entitled or fubjeft to, in like cafe
and circumflances, arid shall be fubje£
to further penalties for neglect of duty
as he or they may be fubjefted to by th
bye-laws made and passed by the corpo
ration of the said town, and shall givi
security for the due performance of thei
lefpeftive offices in like manner; am
the afleffors, collectors and overseers o
the poor, so chosen as aforefaid, shall b
vested with all the powers and authori
ties, and entitled to all the privilege
within the said town refpeftively, anc
• be fubjedt to all the penalties for negled
of duty which the like officers in th
several townships of this state are veffee
with, entitled or fubjeft to, in like cafe
and circumstances 5 and alio that tin
said Mayor, Recorder, Aldermen anc
Assistants, in Common Council affcm
bled, shall and may from time to timi
elect, nominate and appoint conftablc
and such other subordinate officers o
the town aforefaid, not herein named
as they or the greater number of them
the Mayor or Recorder bsingone, fhal
think necessary, for the better ordering
and governing the laid town ; which of
ficers so appointed shall continue in of
sice until others shall be appointed tc
succeed them, and be sworn or affirmec
into office. Provided always, that thi
several officers appointed purluant tc
the directions of this ast, before the>
severally take upon ihem the executior
of their refpeftive offices, lhall take o:
fubferibe the oath cr affirmation of alle
giance to this state, and alio take th<
tjath or affirmation of office.
29. And be it further rria&ed by tin
authority aforefaid, That the laid towi
clerk, who shall be called clerk of th
fowri of Pate.fori, and his successors for
ever, shall ast and do all tilings within
the town aforefaid, which any town
clcrk of and in any borough or town
corporate by virtue of his office can 01
ought to do : That the clerk of the said
tow , for the time being, shall alio be
clerk of the said court of common pleas,
to be held as aforefaid, and alio clerk
of the peace, and of the fcilions of the
ceace, for and in the said town, and all
and singular those things which to the
office and offices of such clerk do and
(hall appertain to do, execute and per
form, and a!fo {hall and may require,
demand, take, accept, hold, keep anc
enjoy, all fees, pcrquifites and profit:
which to any clerk of the peace and ses
sions of the peace, or to any clcrk of an-y
court of common pleas in any count;,
of this Rate do or ought to belong : Thai
the said town clerk, and his successors.
clerk as aforefaid, upon their appoint
ment, shall take the oath or affirmation
of allegiance to the ffate, and also the
usual and legal oath or affirmation of of
fice, before the Mayor or Recorder oi
the laid town, for thetivne being, cithei
oi whom is hereby authorised to quali
fy into office as aforefaid such clerk oi
the said town : That the said clerk foi
the time being, shall be and hereby is
authorised and empowered to adminif
ter the oath or affirmation of allegiance
aforefaid and alio the usual and lega
oaths or affirmation of office to the May
or, Recorder, Aldermen, Assistants, she
riff, coroner, and all, and every othei
officer and minister, who shall be ap
pointed or elected to serve in and foi
the said town ; but in cafe the ft Id clerl
Pnall be absent, dead or removed, th<
said Mayor, or Recorder shall and ma)
administer the oaths or affirmations a
forefaid, to all such officers when dul)
elected or appointed, and report the
fame to thjj f.iid clerk, or his iucceffor
to be enrolled.
30. And be it enacted by the authori
ty aforefaid, That in cafe of vacancy ir
:he office of Mayor, and Recorder, b)
death, resignation or removal, or other
wife during the recefsof the legislature
hat in such cafe, the governor of thi:
Sate, for the time being, is hereby an
horifed to supply such vacancies, anc
:ommiflion them accordingly which fait
:ommiffions fhail continue in force til
he legislature of this state, at a join
neeting shall appoint perfonsto fill fait
office, and the laid person or persons ft
ippointed be duly commiffiQ»ed anc
qualified to execute the fame.
31. And be it further ena&ed by th<
authority aforefaid, That it shall and ma'
:ie lawful for the said Mayor, Recorder
Aldermen, and Assistants, to m&ke fuel
ay-laws, ordinances, rules and recuilati
011s, not inconsistent with the laws an<
cor.ftitution of the United States, or o
this State, as to them shall appear necef
faiy and beneficial to the good govern
mcnt of the said diffritt, and tf)elame ti
put in execution, revoke, alter, am
make new, asoccaiion shall require, an<
to impefe such fines and amercement
upon persons tranfgrefling fucfj by-laws
rules and ordinances, as lhall appear ti
them reasonable, to be levied by diftrel
and sale of the goods of the party of
fending, by warrant, under the hand ant
seal of the said Mayor or Recorder, o
bv such other warrant orprocefs as ffial
have beeti prescribed by the laws or or
dinances oi the laid corporation, to b
recovered by action, for the ul'e of thi
inhabitants of the said district ; and, up
on the lubmiffion of the said tin
laid Mayor, Recorder, Aldermen ant
AHiftafitS, shall have power's to mitigati
or release such fines and amercements
Provided always, That no less than ;
ma jority oi the whole ni*nber of the iaic
officers, of whom the Mayor or Record
er to be one, shall be competent to con
flitute a legal board or meeting for th<
purpose oi making oraltering any by-lav
or ordinance, or of appropriating any o
the monies of the said corporation; anc
rhat not leis than seven, of Vvhom tht
Mayor or Recorder to be one, shall b<
competent to form a board for any othe:
purpose.
52. And be it further ena£ted by th<
authority aforefaid, That the said may
or, recorder, aldeirr.cn, and affiflants
for the time being, shall fever ally anc
refpeftively have all the powers anc
authorities of justices of the peace, anc
shall have full power and authority tf
enquire of, hear, try and determine,
agreeably to the laws and constitution
oi this state, all larcenies, forgeries.
perjuries, afiaults ana batteries,- riots,
routs, and unlawful assemblies, and all
other offences which may or shall he
committed within the said diftrift which
Would otherwise be cognizable in the
court of general quarter sessions of the
peace of the county or counties where
in such di ft rift is situated ; and to pun
ish all perlons so convicted, agreeably
to the laws of this state ; and alio to en
quire of, hear try, and determine, all
offences committed in the said diftrift,
against any of the by-laws, rules and
ordinances, made, ordained and esta
blished in pursuance of this ast ; and to
punish such offenders as by the said by
laws, rules and ordinances, (hall be di
rected ; and also to impose and levy
fines, on jury-men and others, accord
ing to law , to award prcess, make re
cognizances, and commit to prison, as
occasion may require, without being ac
countable to the state for any fines or
amercements to be imposed for the said
offences, except such as arc, or Dial! by
law be. made payable into the treasury
of this state for offences against the
he state ; and that they, in their said
court of quarter leilions, shall have the
Tole, only and exclusive right and power
■ o license all and every inn-keeper, ta
vern-keeper, and retailer of fpiritous
liquors, inhabiting within said town,
as to them shall seem convenient, and
from them, and every of them, so as to
be lieenfed, to require and take recog
nizance, agreeable to the laws of this
state ; and every other licenle for such
purpose, within, the said town, granted
by any other court, (hall be and is here
by declared to be null and void ; and
generally, to do all such matters and
things as any court of general quarter
Ie lb oris of the peace of and for any
county within this state, .may or can
lawfully do within such county : and
ior the purposes aforesaid the said may
or, recorder, aldermen and affrftants, or
any seven of them, of whom the mayoror
recorder to be one, shall have full power
and authority, to hold and keep a court oi
record within the said diftrift four time;
in each year, by the style and title of the
court of quarter sessions of the peace ol
he town of Jpaterfon forenquiring. hear
ing, trying and determining the pleas
inci matters aforefaid; and doing al
such matters and things as in pursuance
of this ast thail be cognizable in the said
court ; which court shall have power
to adjourn from day to day, and to hole
Ipeciai lefiions when to the (aidmayor
recorder, aldermen and assistants shall
appear necessary ; and all proceedings
in the said court maybe removed b\
writs of error, certiorari, or other writs
in the like manner as the proceeding:
in any court of general quarter session:
ol the peace of any county in this state
are by law removable.
33. And be it further enacted by the
authority aforefaid, That the said may
or, recorder, aldermen and affiftauts, 01
any ieven of them, ejf whom the mayoi
or recorder to be one, shall also have
full power and authority to hold ant
keep, on the firft Monday 10 every ca
lendar month, and the fame, if need be
to aeijourn from day to day for the tern
of four days, counting the firft as one
one other court of record, by the ftil<
and title oi the court of common plea;
of the- town of r'aterfon, with puwei
:o hoiti pleas of ail inch civil actions
[uits and controverlies as are ccgniza
o'e in the several county courts witiiir
-his state, to imnmon and'impanriel ju
ries in the laid atuonsor iuits, 10 >:ivc
judgment therein, and to carry iacii
udgments into execution, in as full an;,
ample a manner, and by all such way:
and means as any court ot commor
pleas within this state may eir can do
and the proceedings in the said coun
shall be as nearly as may be the fame
ivith thole of the several courts of com
mon pleas within this state, and may be
removed by habeas corpus, writ of er
ror, or other writ, in like manner as the
proceedings in any such court of com
mon pleas are by law removable.
34. And be it further enacted by the
authority aforefaid, lhat tne laid court
of common *plcas of the town of Pater
ton shall havea leal, with such device
as shall appear to the said court proper,
and all writs, issuing thereout, shall be
ander the said seal, and teftcd in the
rame of the mayor or recorder of ttK
aid corporation.
35. And be it further enaftcd by the
authority aforefaid, That the jufticesof
he court of general quart-er lefiions of
lie peade, of tme count)' or counties in
n which l it!; tl.Uriel is lituated, or any
if them, shall not have power or jurif
liftion within the laid- didrift, exceot
0 compel th<? attendance of wittieffes.
36. And be it further enabled by the
mthority aforefaid, That all artificers
md manufacturers within the said dif
rift, in the immediate service of the
aid lociety, lijall be exempt from all
nilitary duty, except in cales of actual
nvalion. 01 imminent danger. Provi
led always, that the clerk of the said
own of Paterioh shall keep a book, in
vhich he shall ertter the name of all the
1 rtificers and manufacturers in the im
nediate service of the said lociety, at
he direction of the fajd court of gene
al quarter (ellions of the peace, in and
or the said town, and that 110 person
hall be exempt from any taxes wh'at
:ver, or from militia duty, except ins
lame lliall be entered in the said book
is aforefaid.
37. And be it further enacted by
he authority aforefaid, That thisSKt
hall in all things be construed in ttiff
uoft favorable manner for the said rr~
pective. corporations nor shall any
lon-ufer of tha privileges hereby to tne
aid corporations respectively granted,
rcate any* lorfeituie of thfe lame ; and
lotwit' tlaiidmg the members of the
aid respective corporations fliouki fail
o meet, and hold their elections as is
lereby fpeciftcd, the laid elections may
>e afterwards holden, and madeinfuch
nanner as shall have been prelcribed
>y the laws and ordinances of the laid
elpective corporations, and theofficers
or the time being shall continue to hold
ind exercise their office until others
nail be duly elected to fucced them at
ome subsequent meeting.
38. And be it further enacted by
he authority aforefaid, That this act
hall be deemed and taken to lie a pub
ic act, ana as such to be taken notice
?f by all persons and courts of justice
■vhajfoever within this state.
Pa!fed at 1 renton, Nov. 22, 1701.
GEORGE MEA D E
HAS FOR SrtLE,
At his Scores on V/almji -Stieet Wkart,
AJLIr yipes 0/ 3 and 4years old bins oj ex
change Madeira WINE, -which he -wih a>J
ocje oj by thefpe, logjhead or quarter east.
Ly: u h Made# aV/lN bycars old.
Old Steriy Wj/\nj the fft quality, bj the
bog/head or quarter cafe.
i Lree and 4 years old Li/bon WINE, of a fit
berior qua.ity to what is gen-tal-y imported, b, the
pipe, quarter ccfk, or larger quantity
Choice fl/d turiji' /j RAND7~j by the pipe, tierce 1
'>r larger quant.ty.
Ajeiv quatter chejls offir J} quality livfon T'E A.
lleha jujl received by tbtPtgou, Loxlcy, mafier,
Low,*, a fitv quarter calks of old Maieu <
WINK ir.d
>'y lie big Afc-eury, enpt. Stevens, fh?-r Dub
a few boxes of liijh LIM.NS, low prind
«//<"■'" ; «J*»> »»>'» of Rt 1 ar.d White
r LAN Nr. LS, and Jorne CLUE-
A few boxes of spermaceti CANDIES of the
I'rji quality, and.Qut.mgtm?OßK<fprime jua/ity
lie bus alfoto difprje cf a quantity cj th j ■
White Oak S'FAVE. .
lie in .ir.s to k-ep a cor.Rant futply of T'irjl <%*,i
vy Muuetra and Lijbcn Wii\ .jo, ana ivhor-j.
;s ytiafed to favor him tvttk their eujiom, may it
ajjit, f beirg well fcn c.i.
He 111 t through ihe Winter a d Spring, buy
undrijftd l-islh'jJb rJKLS. hie is punha/irtr
' L /iX«S Eb.D aud BEh S JVAX, and tc <ll give
he bivhtj: Price for taewu
A'. />. A jt: w liampcri cf excellent London
PORO R and Taunioti ALE, just arrived ar.u
to be dtjpojidtcf» tj
This oiy • s PublifKed
By CHILDS and SWAINE,
In one Cttavo ;
;Fr ee Oh.c Dollar and a buj\ i.lit t'ttia'A Edition,
aru. 6/-c Dollar and three quarters the iar^e,j
THE
LAWSt of the United States.
Oaliiiv ci with, and corrected by tne original Roiis
in rhe Office of Secrecar .cf State.
With a copious INDEX ; or
A complete DIGEST of the LAWS ;
( Making 56 pa-e.:)
Exccc.eJ by an eminent Lew )
To obtain tiiis uieiul tnd ©ecejfjry Part or the
Work wb'iiplcte, has the Publication.
This Volume <cttifriz.es tke Acls of the Three
iof the fir ft Cor griff • a jj the Federal
i',n, und the Trttt'ies between the Vr.ited
State, and Foreign /Vations - Tvge:.i*r uicb an At -
pendix, ccvtainmg the DeeJa'utun of Ittdepcrd
ence, and jundry Ordinances and Refelves oj Cic-
p. relet the Confederation.
Sod by CLilds and Swainr, No- 239, Fligb
filcct, Ibomas Dohjon, Jofepb Crukfhank, and
Robert Carppl'e.ly l'hi-adepbxa. .
(J&hler 25.
PkINTED BY
GUILDS ano S W A I N E,
AT TH£ 1 R OF /1C £, NO. 239, HIGH-f TRFf T,
NEAR -IXTH-STKEET,
F .'IJL ACt Ll'KIA#