Vol. I.
For the National Gazette.
Theintereflof the Northern and South
ern States forever ivfep arable,
IT seems to have been the design ol
nature in her formation and distribu
tion of that part of North America,
known by the name of the United States
that a mutual dependence ffiould take
place between the northern and south
ern inhabitants. The New-Englanc
states, naturally narrow, and their land;
ill general not very fertile or productive
will ever be under the necessity of keep
inga vast number of their people on the
watry element ; of this number the fiin
cries will occupy a conliderable ffi arc
The exportation of the manufacture:
and commodities of those four states will
engage another part ; but a large furplut
muftin a short time, I may even fay,
would be absolutely out of employ at
this instant, were it not for the carrying
trade of the southern states, by which 1
would be understood the states from
Maryland to Georgia, both inclusive.
An intimate union, founded upon the
broad basis of the carrying trade, may
continue durable as time, and the pre
sent constitution of things. That it will
ever be the interest of the southern states
to become their own carriers, does not
appear. Necessity alone obliges men
to live upon the ocean, and so little docs
that necessity exist in the Carohnas, that
there is at this time not more than one
or two masters of vessels belonging to
America, who are natives of thole states,
and absolutely no common ieamen.
Where mutual interest is the cement
of the people, an empire bids fair to be
lasting and haopy. Where there are
iealoufies and nvalfhips the tie of an
cient friendffiip soon becomes feeble,
and ambition presently finds means to
establish small independencies, ruinous
to the people, and finally rendering
them contemptible to larger and better
consolidated governments.
To strengthen the habits of lnter "
eourfe and connexion between the
northern and southern extremities ot
the American government, nothing leems
to be more wanting than a capital htuat
ed in the centre, which ffiall be the great
resort and emporium of the world, tc
which the inhabitants of the immenle
western regions shall find an easy acceis.
where the N.England-man, the Georgi
an or the Carolinian ffiall conhdertheni
fel'ves alike at home ; where the pro
duaions of all will be in demand ; and
which ffiall be the grand mart of Euro
pean and Asiatic commerce. Nov. 8.
Thoughts on the Theory of Government
as applicable to the new C'onilitution of France.
[Tranjlatcd from le Logographe, Journal Na
tional, Aug. EiS.]
THE constitution of France holds
forth to the nation, Liberty, Pro
perty, and, lastly, Security .-—And these
iritftimable blessings are still further se
cured to us by the spirit of that system
upoji which the constitution is founded.
There has been much dispute on the
nature of the government, which the
constitution has given us. It is monar
chical (fay some) —It is, in reality, re
publican, fay others. They, who have
no idea but of these two species of go
vernment, pretend that it is mixed, 01
partakes equally cf the republican and
monarchical forms.—But, in reality,
the government which i' ranee is now
upon the point of eftabliffiing, appear;
rather to participate equally oi three
modes of domination: and, in fa£t.
t here are but three original elementary
kinds of government in the world :
The.manarckical, the abuie of which
leads to defpotiim —
The ariflorratical,, the abufc of which
i;nds to oligarchy* or when the variou;
powers of government are in the hand;
of a few : and, lastly, the democratic
■'orm of government, the abuse of whicl
is called anarchy.
By PHILIP FRENEAU.
T HURSDAY, November 10, 1791.
If we examine accurately, we shall
find, throughout the world, that the
above three kinds of domination (viz.
supreme power in the hands of one man,
of many, or of all) are, in pra&ice, either
wholly separate, or jumbled together.
But abuses inevitably grow into them
all, when there is not a certain fpecific
principle to qualify them ; or when
the mere blending of them into one mass
is considered as a fufficient check to
the abuses of each, simply considered.
The great problem, then, to be resol
ved, is, whether, in creating a consti
tution, it be possible so to combine and
melt down the three simple modes of
government, that from the whole there
(hall result a perfect harmonious sys
tem ; as from the assemblage of certain
original founds, proceeds a har
mony, in mufifc.
This is precisely what our lcgiflators
have done : they have divided and fub
dividcd the sovereign power really re
siding in the people ; but yet in such a
manner, as to leave it complete in prac- j
tice.
It is a truth, generally known, that a
single agent is requisite for a prompt'
execution of the laws ; and that the|
laws themselves (to be good and faluta- !
ry) should be the result of thedifcuf-j
fions and reflections of a small number
of enlightened men ; the choice of
which men will be the more or less va
luable in proportion as it arises from
the votes of a greater or smaller number
of citizens, who shall have freely con
curred in the appointments.
Upon these principles, we shall fee
every department of public business de
legated to him who is most equal to its
duties. It will lie upon the whole bo
!dy of the people to clioofe their legit
! lators ; the legislators will constitute
the national assembly of France (elected
by the public voice) which will form
exattly that kind of elective aristocracy,
proposed by Rousseau, and which he
held up as the most perfett system of
government —Added to these, is an he
reditary throne, occupied by a special
agent, the supreme head of the nation,
who holding the reins of regal power
i under the responsibility of his ministers,
■ j will ensure the most rapid and perfett
; execution of the laws of the empire.
1! Such a system of government leaves
- 1 nothing further in expectation. It is
-1 able in itfelf completely to maintain the
1 ! legislative and executive branches in a
_ I perfett equilibrium. This alone em
braces that assemblage of various pow
ers, the aggregate of which is nothing
else than nationalfovereignty fat in aßion.
> It mull not be imagined, that previ
ous to the formation of any body of
!- people into a state of society, or before
the constitution of that society was
s finally established, that every individu
al poffeffed within himfelf some small
e share of that sovereignty or plenitude
- of power, which the great locial bodies
n are wont to exercise. Such a species
I. of sovereignty does not simply conlift
e in the right of governing one's felf, it
e likewise includes the right of governing
r- others. Now, this last right, previous
e- to the casual formation of society, be
e longed to no one. The species of fo
>- vereignty that is founded in the social
>r compact, cannot be coniidercd a fepa
d rate, particular right ; or a private
\f, possession of individuals ; on the con
w crary, it is general property, indiviiible
rs and'common, no part of which did ex
;e ift before the existence of society itfelf,
±, and which the people associated cannot
ry claim or exercise, but in common.
From an inattention to these ideas,
:h it has frequently happened, that a small
number of individuals, are frequently
;h {tiled in their petitions, members oj tht
us sovereign ; and that others have wiflied
ds I to annihilate the unity of a vionarchua.
:ic ! head in the constitution, in order thai
ch I the two othei powers might pcif>_ti.l\
[balanceeach other.
The mifunderltanding of these princi
ples has been one great cause of various
governments, eretted, in appearance, on
the most solid foundations, falling into
confufion and ruin.
Unfortunately, they neglected to es
tablish this power of supremacy, in one
person, as a part of their constitution,
and infringed that great law of nature,
which has ordained that the three
branches of government fhouldexift to
gether, to make a complete whole.
Wherever this omiflion has been fuffer
cd, it has been the conllant effort of the
people to restore it; and if England has
preserved a more perfett constitution
than other nations, it is because she has
espoused at all times this great element
ary principle of government.
Let us never admit any alterations, if
we can pollibly prevent them, into this
firftadtof our renovated government [the
onjiitutional code] which is founded upon
lie will of twenty-five millions of peo
ple. Let this precious treasure be tranf-
Tiitted from generation to generation in
all its purity, and may it descend, with
the bleflings of the people to bur latest
Tofterity ! They will have rcafon to ho
nor the memory of those men of genius
md Knowledge, who have established
he rights of a great nation, upon the
no ft benevolent laws, and who by their
wisdom and moderation have prevent
sd that effufion of human blood, which
i blind, stupid love of country has hi
therto encouraged among the different
nations of the world.
Signed, Louis Lefebure,
Member of the Council General
of the diftrift of Paris.
Paris, Auguft2B, 1791.
To our Sub/criters.
[ Tht ccnjiitutional code, above referred to, shall
V tuKjhed. m this paper, as foor. as authentic at
•cwtis arrive of its acceptance by the King, j
CONOR ESS.
\ 1 ■ 1 »
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF
THE UNITED STATES.
MONDAY, Nov. 7.
Several other members appeared and
took their feats, viz. William Findley,
from Pennsylvania ; John Baptist Afhe,
from NOl th-Carolina ; and Abraham
Baldwin, from Georgia.
The fpcaker laid before the house a
etter from the secretary of the treasury,
,vith an.estimate of certain sums necel
ary to be appropriated for various ob
etts therein i'pccified, including the fer-
the year 1792. —Read, and re
ferred to Mr. Lawrance, Mr. Baldwin,
ind Mr. Afhe.
A message was then received from the
senate, as follows:
Mr. Speaker —The senate have pasTed
he bill, intituled, " An ast granting fur
ther time for making return of the enu
meration of the inhabitants in dil
rift of South-Carolina," with several
intendments, to which they desire the
incurrence of the house.
The house having proceeded to con
sider the said amendments proposed,
concurred with the senate therein. v
Mr. Bourne, of Maffaehufetts, and
Mr. Smith, of Vermont, were appoint
ed a committee for inrolled bills, on the
part of the house.
On tke part of the senate, Mr. Ruth
;rford was appointed one of the said
zomimttee.
The house then proceeded to confidei
he report of the secretary at war, on
:he petition of John Torrey, when, after
Come debate, it was ordered that the laid
petition and report be committed to a
committee of the v, hole house to-mor
row.
The reports of the secretary at war
the petitions of John Younojove, anc
if the inhabitants of A loan;, Wanting
ton, and Saratoga.co'-'.nt;e .'ftateoi New
York) were called up, and the fcl'ow
ing refoli tio:r moved thereupon—Tna
Numb. 4.
the prayer of the petition of said inha-
Ditants (in oppofuion to the petition of
John Younglove) for the repeal of so
much of the ast of Congress, relative to
granting pensions to disabled officers
ind soldiers, as grants a penfioti to John
Younglove, cannot be complied with.—
On motion, the further consideration of
"aid petition was poflponed.
The speaker laid before the house, a
report from the commissioners appoint
;d by the a£t making provision for the
redu&ionof the public debt, Hating the
imount of the purchases which have
seen made thereof; which was read,
ind ordered to lie on the table.
The house proceeded to consider the?
report of the fecretafy at war on the pe
ition of Joseph Tucker, Thomas Hollis
Condv, Robert Williams, and Samuel
.\rmflrong, (agents appointed by the
date of MafTachufetts to the several re
giments to which they belonged) made
:o the l'econd fedion of the firfl Con
gress ; whereupon the following resolu
tion was taken, " That so much of the
aid report as is contained in the words
Following be agreed to : " That the cafe
is so circuinftanced that the petitioners
cannot obtain any further allowances,
unlets the legillature of MafTachufetts
should think proper to grant the fame."
Adjourned.
TUESDAY, November 8.
Another member, Andrew Gregg,
from Pennsylvania, appeared and took
his feat.
A petition of James Muckelroy, was
read, praying to receive certain arrears
of pay due to him for services, while a
oldier in the army of the United States,
during the late war,
Mr. Sheerjafhub Bourne, from the
joint committee of enrolment, reported,
that the bill for granting further time
for returning the South-Carolina census
had been examined by the committee,
and the fame had been found to be truly
Enrolled; upon which the bill was iigned
by the Speaker, and then sent to the
President, from whom a message was
afterwards received, notifying the House
h hat he had approved and signed the
Tame.
A petition of Jofias Clapham was
read, praying the renewal of certain
oan office certificates and indents, the
aroperty of the petitioner, which were
leflroyed by fire. -Referred to the
rortimittee fordire&ingthe mode for re
newing loft or destroyed debts of the
United States.
A petition of John Sinklcr, praying
to be allowed to fund certain certificates
as indents, being the duplicates of cer
tain original certificates of indents, the
property of the petitioner, deflroyed by
ire.
The house, according to the order of
:he day, resolved itfelf into a commit
:ce of the whole, on the report of the
Tecretary at war, on the petition of John
Torrey, laying claim, as adminiflrator,
to the half-pay compensation of Joseph
l'orrey, formerly an officer in the fer
v ice of the United States, who died witft
>Lit leaving a widow or children ; the
Secretary having reported that he is not
entitled thereto.—Mr. Muhlenberg in
he chair.
After some debate, the queflion was
akenon agreeing to the secretary's re
port, and palled in the affirmative. The
Lommittee then rofeand reported, which
report was adopted by the house.—Re
solved, that the secretary's report be a
jrced to, and that therefore the prayer
of the petition cannot be granted.
[Adjourned.]
WEDNESDAY, November 9.
William Vans Murray from Mary
land, and Thomas Suaapter from South-
Caiolina, appeared and took their feats.
I The Speaker laid before the - House a
| letter from the governor of Maryland,
1 inclosing an appointment of John FrancisMerier a* riprefcntative iri Congi\*fs
in the room of Wiilianj Pinkney, whe
has religned that appointment.—Refer
red to the ftandjfag committee of ciec
tions.
The petitions of JofepJh Stout, anc
Charles Croxall, were read, praying
tompenfation for services rendered ir
the army of the United States, during
the lat; war.—RefeVred to the Secretary
at War.
Mr. Sedgwick made a mStion, tha
the committee who were appointed t<
bring m a biil directing the mode ir
which the evidences of the debt of th<
United States which have been loft o
ikilroyed may be received, be difchaig
ed from conhd. ring so much thereof a
relates to loft certificates—The queftioi
being thereon, was negatived.
Mr. White moved, that a committei
be appointed to bring in a bill to pro
A ide tor the settlement of unliquidate*
claims against the United States.
Motion laid on the table.
Mr. Sedgwick from the committei
appointed for the parpofe, reported ;
bill directing the mode in which thi
evidences of the debt of the Unitec
Slates, which havebeen loft or destroy
ed, may be renewed ; which was reac
the ftrft time.
Ordered, That the committee of th
whole houle be discharged from th*
iurtherconfiderationoi the amendment
to the confutation proposed the thin
of March last, and tiiat the sam
be referred to Mr. Sedgwick, Mr. Hill
house, Mr. Benfon, Mr. Boudmot, Mr
Smith (S. C.) and Mr. Steele.
Mr. Vining, Mr. Boudinot, Mr. Giles
Mr. Lawrance, and Mr. Gerry wer
appointed a committee toprepare a bil
to eftablifli" a uniform system of bank
ruptcy throughout the United States.
Mr. Fitzlimons, Mr. Lee, and Mr
Shci edine, were appointed a committer
to bring ,s a bill to regulate pilots anc
provide for the luperintendence of th<
light-houses, and the beacons, buoys
and public piers, in the bay and rive;
of Delaware, and the bay of Chefapeak
witli the rivers emptying into the fame
The Haufe proceeded to the farthei
confide ration of the report of the Secre
tary at War on the petition of Johr
Younglove, whereupon, resolved, tha
the prayer of the petition of sundry in
habitants of the counties of Albany anc
Washington, in the state of New-York
lor a repeal of so much of the ast o:
Congress, entitled, " An ast for the re
lief of di fabled soldiers and seamen, late
ly in the service of the United States
and of certain other persons," as relate:
to the per.iion of John Younglove, can
not be granted.
Ihe orders of the day were furthei
poisoned till to-morrow.
Adjourned.
[ The following ideas on Ret üblican Govern
merits are translated from a late Frenci
paper J]
It is only by flow degrees that empire:
advance to maturity; whereas, theii
fall is sudden and precipitate. For feai
of something like this being the lot oi
I'ranee, let us turn a deaf ear to thoft
innovators, who in opposition to the
decrees of the National* AlTembly, art
continually preaching up to i;s the su
perior excellence of republican govern
ment..
If France lay inclosed in *a valley
surrounded by lofty and impalfabk
mountains, and accessible only by one
entrance, so as to have but one spot o:
territory to defend ; in that cafe, per
haps, a republican form might be the
most luitable to her circumstances ; bul
other means are necefi'ary to goverr
twenty-five millions of men, in a coun
try every where open .to the incursion:
offtrangers, and comprising within it
felf every ipecies of corruption. A
country habituated to luxury, 'where
wealth is unequally divided, is verv
different from one where the equality
of the citizens is founded upon the
equality of fortunes.
England and Ireland might become
republics witho it experiencing the fame
dangers as we should, because, notwith
standing the Unequal participation ol
property among the inhabitants of these
countries, they do not lie exposed, like
trance, to foreign invafiQn and sudden
eruptions. The people, too, having
preferred and enjoyed their liberties
for a long time, have acquired such a
hubit oi good order, that the conftilu
tions of boththfife islands might afTume
a republican form, without any consi
derable shock, from such a revolution,
In fatl, the Englilh and Iriill house oi
commons-have to this day preserved the
republican spirit, notwithstanding thcii
supposed tendency to aristocracy.
It is not the lame with France, fh<
having made a sudden transition fron
the most rigorous oppression to the rnof
absolute freedom, without any interme
diate marked gradations to prepare th<
French for imbibing' a true repuWicai
spirit.
PARIS, August 30.
The meeting of the English Parlia
ment is prorogued to the third of No
vember. The King, in the Court Ga
zette of the has revoked the ordei
offering a bounty for volunteer feamer
in the fleet ; which was to have beeH ir
forcetill August 3 1 It. but was renderec
void on the 20th ; the day the revoca
tion was published.
It is much doubted whether the pa
cific intentions of the Britilh Court an
sincere ; not in regard to the -Ruffian:
(for there is an end to that business) bu
towards some neighbours that the Bri
tifh Ministry view with rather an un
friendly eye. Every thing, in Ihort
announces, hostile attempts upon theii
old natural enemy on thisjWe of the chan
nd\ of whose present apparent weaknef
the Minister wishes to take advantage
There are suspicions that the fleet wil
r.ot be entirely laid up, but kept ii
forne fort of readiness, in cafe of fom<
favourable event, to reap the fruits o
court intrigue that have been carryiiii
on some time with a deal of art as wel
aspaiience. Ever since the nation ha
been acquainted with the result of th<
negociations withßuffia, all the minis
terial papers are constantly trumpeting
into the ears of the public, the diftrerf
ed situation of France. The Oracle
in particular, after having laid a quan
turn fijicit of incense under the nofi
of Mr. Pitt, by formally returning hin
thanks for restoring the peace of Eu
rope, and flopping short, with a daft
of his pen, the Ruffian army that wen
marching to lay Constantinople in ashes
gravely remarks, that " the period i
now arrived, for the powers of Europi
to form a union against France." Tin
London Gazette is a little more modefi—
That paper hints to us, that the fleet
instead of laying still, might as well b<
employed " in redrtffaig the affairs o
France." In fact, the generality o
their pamphlets and public papers mak<
the lame apologies for the convcntior
of Petei fburg, and contain nearly th(
fame insinuations against this country
The few opposition papers that ate ftii
in reprobate severely th(
measures of Mr. Pitt, but at the faint
time very feebly plead the cause of th<
Frenoh nation. We observe, with pain
that the Englilh in general, cannot for
get the American revolution ; the re
membrance of vi hich keeps alive a fe
cret hatred against the French ; as ii
that revolution, which has proved oi
luch immense benefit to mankind, anc
foglorious to the Americans themselves
did not originate in the Court of St
James s and from a corrupted majority
in the British House of Commons, ra
ther than from any intrigues of the
Court of Versailles. The French Mi
niftcrs, under the old government, it ii
well known, acted independent of anc
even in defpiteof the will of the peo
pie ; and if they assisted the Americans
it was, perhaps, because they could no
forget the speeches of the implacabli
Farl of C hatham, with whom the Delen
da Carthago was always a favorite sen
timent when applicable to the annihila
tion of France.
LONDON, September 4.
Every true Engliftiman ought to def
pile the coudua of the Oxford gradu
ates, in their fulfomc piece of adulatior
lent to Mr. Burke, for his endeavorins
to lupport church government at a time
when the ill effects of ft are ablbluteh
become proverbial. Gentlemen of edu
cation, and who pretend to be the Light
"f the world, ought not to appear in vin
dication of the plurality of livings anc
tliereby starving the poor curates, whe
are the chief laborers. If this is the
part they mean to ast, they can hardh
be coniiaered farthing candles. If o ui
church policy is such, that the ftatt
IYOUI tu mble to pieces by the least al
deration of it, let us hear the tncfis de
fended by argument manfully, and noi
fkuik behind the stale and degradec
term, innovation. Ihe glor:ous re
formation which has been effected ir.
:his kingdom, would have never exiftec
in Britain had our reformers been al
iiurkitesj or had they boggled at the
word innovation. The time, however
it least in other countries, seems to bt
approaching, when justice and e<juit\
muff take place of intrigue and elefyor
influence.
In relation to the above, the following
letter from Temelwaer (a town of Hun
gary on the Turkish frontier) may b(
worth notice, elpecially as it seems tt
include the idea that, enlightened as we
suppose ourfclves in England, a rude ant
barbarous people mull still throw furthe
tight to enable us to comply with th<
dictates of common honesty and com
mon justice. " The Corigrefs aflemblec
here (fays the letter) among fnanyothei
rfefel institutions worthy the adoption
)f all civilised nations, have decreed.
:hat an equalization of the revenues o
the church fliall take place, and that the
biiliops shall be obliged to pay a certain
proportion of their wealth, towards the
decent maintenance of the inferior cler
gy, who have hitherto performed the
duties of then profeffion in penury anc
rags, while the lazy, the indolent; anc
rapacious prelates, their superiors, have
been wallowing in luxury."
Until lately, it was the glory of the
Engliih nation to defend itfelf, and on
ly ast offenfively, when injured or in
lulted: our recent conduct of a contra
ry nature, in relpeft to Ruflia, it is te
be feared, has alienated the hearts oi
that nation from us. During two cen
turies our trade, with Ruflia has been an
abject of peeuliar national solicitude.
but by the proceedings of the season just
past, it would seem that the miniftet* nc
longer thinks the Ruffian trade an ob
ject worth preserving. By his ftrangc
perversion of ideas we are transferrins
the trade of Ruflia into the hands o
the French, and that of Thome anc
Dantzic into the hands of the Pruffiar
despot. As to hostilities with Ruflia.
the profpeft of any thing of that kind
is now over ; but, as every rational 01
considerate man expected, we have tc
encounter a mortal arming bill ofcharg
ss.—No-matter ! John Bull will chear
y P aw n his last shirt, to receive
from the newspapers the gratifying in
telhgence of a formidable fleet puttina
to lea to dilplay his power—he little
cares to whom, or for what.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
the orator op the woods.
K A Wk S JL ran 8 era( H> wi,h surprize,
X r Wastes ,he fla:tin g year
Where Indian forefls round him rife
Ami only ruflics come to hear
" Hit cafe is hard (they lesm to fay)
oucn talents in so poor a way !"
To those that courts and titles plcafe
How dismal is his lot, '
&SPnd the hills, beneath some trees.-
lo liVe'and be forgot
. 1.1 dull retreats where Nature binds
Her mals oi clay to vulgar minds.
While you lament his barren trade,
lell me—ln yonder vale
Why grows that flower beneath the shade
cio tecble and so pale ?—
Why was lie not in gardens plac'd
io blulh, and please the man of taste ?
so lonely wilds, those flowers so fair
No curious step allure,
And chance, not choice, has plac'd them there
bull charming, though obfeute,
Where heedless of such Tweets, so nigh,
1 lie lazy hind goes loitering by.
Philadelphia, Nov. 8
POUGHKEEPSIE, Nov. 3 .
A few weeks ago, as some persons were dig
n'nm' C ' 3 fwam P on 'he Wall-Kill
n Ulfler county, they came aeroft a bed oflar«
'b bones They were found fix feet unde,
|round, and at the bottom of the flrata of marie
some of the largest of the nbs were accidentally
hem On t e / P '° n the firft
he pofleffion of a genTmant ST'town™
he Ur oSd f r r o 1 f nC ,i: S^r 1 v e e ng,h i;
>ne oftheßrft nb bones of the Sal'lca"*
a>»sthat gC r"! 30 \ h ° bce " on spot
>Y the flad- <*her ribs which wn 3 broken
>X the Ipade, was one foot longer than this
This information we communicate as of unques
tionable authenticity. Bones of the fame mar
vellous size have been frequently found in va
rious parts of North-America, and of Siberia in
Asia, and are uloallv afc'ribed to the Mammoth,
a fiupcndous animal whose race must have pe
rifned iulome remote period of the world, and
ivho has left only thole relics of his existence,
buried deep in the earth, to excite our far prifc
and admiration,
UTON MODERN NOVELS.
\_From a late London Review.]
WHEN a manufa&ure has been
carried on long enough for the
workmen to obtain a general proficien
cy, the uniformity of the fluffs will,
render it difficult to decide on the pre
ference of one piece beyond another.
From a reason analogous to this, it is,
-hat altho' the greater part of modern
novels may exhibit nothing to shock
sur feelings, neither do they attract
my particular attention, either as to
materials or execution.
Two of the earliest fabricators of this
pecies of goods, the modern novel,
were Daniel de Foe, and Elizabeth
Haywood ; the success of Pamela may
be said to have brought it into fafhion ;
and the progress has not been less rapict
than the extentipn of the use of tea. to
which a novel is almofl as general an
attendant, as the bread and butter,
While we are on this fubjegt, it is
ilfo to be noted, that nothing is more
:ommon than to find hair powder lodg
:d between the leaves of a novel
which evinces the corresponding at
tention paid to the inside as well as to
:o outside of a modern head. When an
art becomes general, then is the time
for the invention of engines to facilitate
-he operations, as in the cotton manu
facture. Swift's machine for the com
polition of books, like njofl other firft
attempts, has not been found to arifwer.
It was reserved for us to publish a
Icheme for the easy multiplication of
novels, cheap in its execution, and
ceitain in its operation, so long as not
only our presses but those of Germany
and France, will furnilh raw materials
to work up ; and before they can fail
we may hope to import ample supplies
from Amenta, Here, then, we diftn
tereitecLy offer it pro bono publico ; and
expect the thanks of the whole body o£
frizeurs for our afliftance towards re-
Vln ß them f rom a multitude of impa
tient exclamations, and profane oaths.
Receipt for Vamping up Novels.
Go to Middle Row, Holborn, where,
lince mankind have discovered that
their own hair is fufficiently capable of
distortion, the fellers of old
wigs have given place to the dealers in
cait off books? there, on the bulks,
from among the classes of a groat or fix
pence per volume, buy an old forgotten
novel, the older the better: give new
names to the personages and places, re
form the dates, moderntze such circum
(tances as may happen to be antiquated,
and, if necelfdry, touch up the ffyle a
little with a few of those cant words
and phrases that may be in faihion at the
ime. All this maybe done with a pen,
in , th f c v mar S m °f the printed book, with
\ l t , ro r ub f e of tranferibing the
whole unless it ,s to be carried to a
Jookieller for Tale, for then you mud
how a manufenpt. I„ either cafe it
nay be sent to the printer ; for printers,,
ike surgeons and lawyers, are bound
okeep the secrets of their employers.
1 o a pubhfher there are many advan
ces attending this mode of proceed
ing ; and the laving of copy money is
o be reckoned as the chief. A novel of
wo or three volumes, that could not be
purchaicd under four or five guineas
-nay be thus new vamped from an old
ane by acompofitor who dabbles a little
with his pen for perhaps half a eui
iea; and if the alterations be fkillfully
performed they will confound the judZ
tient so that neither author nor book
eller knowing his own book again a
rofecut'on for copy-right need lot be
pprehended. Ihe most that even a
- U r th , a g ° od memory could fay,
ould be, that there is nothing new in
"el'v P \ r £ T have ex P reffad our-
Ives so a hundred times, novels are
h ° r ri . nS forth as f act as ever ! We are
- e oie not without suspicions that
s our cheme has beea anticipated,
and isah-eady m practice ; for as far ai
ll °n can reach, the characters,"
tuations, plots and catastrophes, are,
J V£ry fcw exceptions, still thePHILADELPHIA,
November io.
On the second i.idant, at a meeting of the
Directors of>the Bank of the Uniied States, the
following Gentlemen were appointed a Com
mittee to prepare and report a plan sot offices
of discount, viz. William Smith (S. C.) Jo
nathan Malon, of Madachufetts, William Bing
h?. ; Jeremiah Wadfworth,
Co.,..ecticut, and James Watson of New-
York,
The moll recent advices f -om Cape-Francois
mention that the Droit D'Aubaine (Kings alien
duty upon foreigners) has been abolilhed by the
AtTembly General of the Idand, upon a repre
sentation from the American merchants.
The fame accounts fay that immense quanti
ties of flour from this Continent are flored at
the Cape for winch there had been very little
demand several weeks pad. Price current from
four and an half to five and one quarter dollars
per barrel for the bed fuperfine.
A summary of other material intelligence by
the lad arrival from the Cape, to OMobc r 6, is
as follows : The two Negro Camps of Dagoult
and Gallifat are taken, without any loss—The
Cane Army, confiding of Whites and free M«-
lattoes, were p'epanng to attack I.'Acul and
Li'nbe —and a detachment setting out to Ge
naives, to prevent any luither infurreflions in
the neighbourhood of St. Marks. —No troops
had arrived to the afli dance of the government,
from any quarter,—and the Engliflilhips of war
from Jamaica were unable to etfe&.any thing.
Several circumdances bad concurred to prove,
that the Spaniards of Cuba, and Spanilh Hif
panioia were at ihe bottom of the infurreffion,
and had furnilhed the Negroes with considerable
quantities of cannon, powder and other military
{tores.—ln the Camp of Gallifat, after the cap
ture, were lound many valuable edefts, provi
sions, fix pieces of cannon, and a number of pa
pers proving that the Spaniards had hitherto
fupphed the Negroes with the means ofhodihty.
In general, when the lad velfels left the Cape,
matters were putting on a more favorable afpetl
than heretofore, the revolted Negroes having
begun to fall fholt of provisions and Stores, and
either furrenderirfg to the Whites or retreating
into inaccessible monriTains. After the General
AiJcmbly had certain pioo r s of an intercourle
between the Negioes and Spaniards, an embargo
was laid upon all th ■ Spanish vellels in the ports
of French Hifpmiola to prevent, as much as pos
sible, their supplying the Negroes with any mote
{lores.
Exiraft of a letter from St. Mary's River (Geor
gia), OB obex 10.
" Since peace has beefi re-edabli{hed with
the Creek Indians, this pait of the date of Geor
gia, has begun to Houiith incredibly. Wealthy
men at a d; (lance now find it their intercd to
purchase lands in this quarter, which are for the
mod part excellent, and lying in one of the mod
delightful climates of the known world. We have
already made some progress in building a town
about fix leagues up the river St. Mary's, which
from the natural advantages of that river and a
variety of other circumdances, bids fair in time
to be a flourifhing and important, capital at the
extiemitv of the United States. Having spent
two vearshere, I can fay from my own experi
ence that the funmers are neither so hot nor the
winters'fo colci as in Carolina; there is at all
times a genial tetliperature in the air, and, ex
cept in the neighbourhood of sunken marlh lands
th-' country s as healthy as any part to the north
ward From the number of veflels that are eve
ry dav paffins and i °padin ;our bar, we begin to
anticipate an xtei.five commercial intercourse
with the world : large from this port; and par
ticularly as we have a vail extent of territory to.
the wed and north-wed, capable of the
eutivation ; an inanity of rich swamps proper
for rice, and theupland at present covered with
timber of the larged growth in America.
We learn from a late London paper that Pe
ter Pindar, Efqnire (the J£nglilh Aridophanes)
has in a number ol odes jointly attacked Mr.
Paine, on his '* Rights of Man"—and a sett of
people, whom he calls " Briufh Democrates"
for-celebrating the downfall of French delpot
ifm, on the 14th o! July.—" This Pindar [fay
the Reviewersj mud certainly be an unreafonabie
man. He woula monopolize the Kings of the
earth, and appropriate them lolely to his own
ule and emolument —but why, Mr. Pindar, not
let a brother fatitid, or a democratic politician
have a mouthiui of royalty with you why
churhlhly co; si..< Mr. Pame, and all the merry
fellows wild : et to laugh dowr, and drink down
despotism at ie crown and anchor, to old Nick,
for havm > jeiadven'ure, the fame high flavour,
fade and rr lid) for-Joup royal with yourfelf? —
Why thus abuse poor' Mr. Paine and other Spe
culators on refcjnna'.iot), for. having the alfurance
to make free wiih Kiir ; s. crowns, and scepters —
In truth, Peter, you seem in a fearful padion,
but tho' we have always been forced to laugh
with you in your formei odfs, we cannot parti
cipate in the ill humour with which these latter
abound."
Extract cfa letter from London, Sept. 1.
" Notw-.tlidandinc the Emprels of Rudia has
been generally ranked amen: the over ambitious
and tyrannical potentates of the eattb, then- are
dill fomc traits iri her charatter, which discover
an attachment to the liberties , and happinefsof
mankind. Upon an idea luggeded by the late
Dr. Franklin, a quedion is now agitated at the
RuflianCcuit, that iu their future maritime
VKuiare the commercial snips even of avowee j
enemies (not laden with warlike (lores), {hall
not be mole (ted on the high sea» or elsewhere
by the Ruffian public or private (hips of war that
may be fitted out to cruise against the said ene
my. 1 bis seems to be putting matters upon an
equitable footing. If We examine the hi (lory of
mankind, we (hall fee, that in all ages war has
been the work of kings and nobles, and that
the multitude of every community have ever
been pitted against each other, to support the ho
nour and (uppofed interest of the monarch and
hj*circ!e ; which interest has uniformly been,
that mankindjhouldbc atvariance almojlperpetual
ly, to prevent them from looking into the Rights of
Man■ If the above plan of the Emprels (houid
(übftantially and universally be carried into effect,
national quarrels will in future be decided as it
were, bv single combat of the parties immediately
concerned and their adherents, without involving
the peaceable tradesman, the adventurous mer-
induftiious planter, or the enter»prifing
sailor ; all which clafTes, confiiruting the bulk of
a nation, are generally averse to war, if left to
themselves, and would gladly live at peace,
were it not for the worthless dregs of our. J pedes.,
who be;ng frequently placed at the head of af
fairs, have filled the world with ruin and car
nage."
5- " b
§ S e
•a.ei s= 1 g
i.s I
r* s g * ;
s* x? Sh >
2 <
H 2 $
Si, •*!>>) Co tfc. iu<*o 2 *§
3 §- fit 11 I | 1 1, »
< s s „ s 3 a °
I—) ft r\ ft Cj-Crq X H"
3 > 3
1 »r s i
a J 5 " J 5 " _ ft Q
r> sj C/
3 co 5. H
f O ® G
c-«. C»V >s_ r*-
1 *
o s. " S- <£
S» 5."" — 8
?> «o
CO CO _
> j- O o
§ 33 " ' ~ »■
2 •- U3CO o ">
S tnto^)^^-3.c-,g > ,
-j * v,s,v>v* c/v . 5: "■»
►- O - o*i I- cc • a -J
to - vO (CIO 000 r vc "
CO ►£». to N CO H CC cS?
r 5 " 00 CO O CTICr. £ r 5
k£» U&. - 000 U__ —
■ TT - ► N S
-4 CO
r r J* S° r S 1 ~ M £r ?> ' g §
~Q\ Cj 4S. (0 u- Cj J- CO •' • £ 55
to w OC'sD COCO OO a tj
►- «-. 0
| OV
CJi to C" 1 <T>Cri W w Co ST
Q% - OQVKQ ~ CO • — 04
' Q-, •— >-» |C«_ rv
n M H to o> r
w O to o «-v co co - crij- — c> 7T> 2
ff! M o Oi M cw o
hn M
CO to o CO OOCn CO *vj to —. ft- Jj,
I r+ <5>
w K-
Z: O 00CO _•_ r-O
v , a.
2 M to to kft c
CO OVO OO en CX3CO ft 5^3
O J - vP vT J 3O S° ?- n S*
.0: s
Qv, "<1 Osco <0 lOM CIOC Kv. s , a
i.NW m»lO - Cl-M _ 2- g
r* ' * •••••••
r . "<i co (?) o mco co rr 'a
o >-* cc to to o ? ">
W - - ~ f-i Ns *>1
- <sO y a
VD O vo O CO 0C- O
O 'i O Ui o Oi "tc Y' S •
cr O co o oocn uu Co q> a S. '
CO 0-. o to o o CO tftssb
' ••••• ' -«. » ,-. r\
q Co CO CO O>co 10 £
. oc -i~- co m \o m 00 to v_ r" • r
The following was laid before theHoufe
of Representatives on Monday last, by
the Secretary of the Treasury.
Trcafury Department, November \th, 1791.
S 1 R ' r • u
I HAVE the honor to tranlmit herewith a
Report to the House of Representatives, ac
companying certain estimates ot (urns necellary
to be appropriated for various objefls therein
lpecified, including the service of the year 1792.
1 have the honor to be,
With great relpett, SIR,
Your moil obedient,
And humble servant,
ALEXANDER HAMILTON.
The Honorable Jonathan Trumbull, Ffquire,
Speaker of the Hcuje of Representatives.
The SECRETARY of the TREASURY
Refpeelfuh y Reports to the
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES
The ESTIMATES
Herewith tranlmitted, No. 1, 2, 3, 4-
THE firfl relating to the civil lift,
or the expenditure for the sup
port of government during the
year 1762 (including incidental
and contingent expences of the Dols. Cts.
several departments and offices)
amounting to - - 3 2 3)6j&' 5 l
The fecor.d relating to certain li
quidated claims upon t e trea
sury ; to certain deficiencies in
former eflimates for the current
service, and to, a provifiorv in
aid of the fund heretofore ap-
propriated for the pavn'ent of
certain officers of the courts, ju
rors, witneifes, &c. 197,119. 49
The third relating to the depart
ment of war, (hewing the dated
expenditure of that department
for the year 1792. - 357.73 1 - 61
The amount of a years pensions
to invalids, - - 87,463. 60§
Pay and fubfiftance to fitndry of
ficers for which no appropriation
has yet been made, 10,490. 36
Arrearages due upon Indian af
fairs for the year 1791, and the
sum supposed to be neceflary for
the year 1792, 39,424.71
Expenccs incurred for the defen
five protection of the frontiers
for the year 1790, and 1791,
and for which no appropriation
has yet been made, 37»339« 4^
Amounting together to Dollars 1,058,222. Bi|
As appears by No. 4, which containsa fumrnaryof
the three preceding ones : exhibiting in one
view the total sum as above dated, for which
an appropriation is requisite.
The funds out of which the said appropriation
may be made, are, firft, the sum of fix hundred
thousand dollars reserved annually out of the du
ties on imports and tonnage, by the ast making
provision for the debt of the United States, for
the support of the government thereof: And se
condly, such furplusasfhall have accrued to the
end of the present vea-, upon the revenues here
tofore established, over and above the sums ne
ceflary for the payment of, interest on the pub
lic debt during the fame year, and for the fatisfy
ing of other prior appropriations.
Judging from the returns heretofore received
at the treasury, there is good ground to conclude
that, that surplus, together with '.he above menti
oned sum of fix hundred thousand dollars, will
be adequate to the object.
All which is humbly submitted.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Treasury.
General EJlimate for the Services of the
ensuing Year.
CIVIL LIST.
Doi. Cts. Dol. Cts.
For compensation to the
president, vice-presi
dent, chief justice and
ail'oci ate judges, 51,500
Ditto to the diftridt
judges, - - 21,300
Members of the senate,
house of representa
tives and their officers 129,730
Treasury department, 60,300
Department of state, 6,300
Department of war, 9,600
Btoard of commiflioners 13,100
Government of the
western territory, it,ooo
Grant to baron Stuben, 2,500
Pensions granted by the
late government, 2,767. 73
Incidental and contin
gent expences of the
civil liftcftablifhments 20,555. 83
—: 3-8,653 56
EXTR AORDIN ARIES.
For discharging certain
liquidated claims
on the United States, 117,625.70
To making gcod defi
ciencies in the civil
lift establishment, 49,043, 79
Clerks ofcourts, jurors,
witnefiVs, &c. - - 5,000
Maintenance of light
houses and repairs, 16,000
Keeping prisoners - 4,000
Arranging the public
securities, - . 2,450
Purchafe.of hydrome
ters, - - 1,000
Building and equipping
ten cutters, - - 2,000
-197,119, 49
WAR DEPARTMENT.
Stated annual expen
ces, - - - 357,731.61
Annual allowance to
invalids, - - 87,463. 6o|
For former deficient
appropriations, - 47,829. 84
Indian d partment, 39,424. 71
532,449.76!
Dollars, 1,058,222. Bi|
Treasury Department,
Reg]icr*s Nov. 4, 1791.
JOSEPH NOURSE, Register.
APPOINTMENTS.
The President of the United States has appointed,
by and with the advice and confentof the Se
nate, the following persons .
Thomas Johnson, of Maryland, one of the
afTociate juflicesof the supreme court, vice John
Rutledge, resigned.
William Lewis, diftrift judge of Pennsylvania,
vice Francis Hopkinfon, deceased.
William Rawle, attorney for the United
States in the Pennsylvania diflrift, vice William
Lewis appointed a judge.
Matthew Clarkfon, marshal of the New-York
diftrift, vice William Smith, appointed super
visor of said dillnc.t.
lohn Brooks, marshal of the Massachusetts
diflrift, vice Jonathan Jack on, apooiiit<<linfpec
tor of one of the surveys within (aid diflrift.
David Meade Randolph, maifh il of the Vir
ginia dillrift, vice Edward Carnngton, appoint
ed supervisor of said diflrift.
Alexander Campbell, attorney for the United
States in the Virginia drftrift, vice William Nel
fon,jun. resigned.
Oliver Wolrot, jun. comptroller of the trea
sury, vice Nicholas Eveleigh, deceased,
Timothy Pickering, pofl-mafler-general, vice
Samuel Ofgood, resigned.
Isaac Holmes, colleflorof the port of Charles
ton, in South-Carolina, vice George Abbot Hall,
deceased.
Jofiah Murdaugh, surveyor of the port of
Hertford, in North-Carolina, vice JoQiua Skin
ner, jun. son of William, deceased.
Andrew Barret to be supervisor of the dif
trift of Delaware, vice Henry Latimer, who has
resigned his appointment.
INFANTRY.
Firjl Regiment.
Promoted—William Kersey, Captain; vice
M'Curdy, resigned; Robert Thompson, Lieu
tenant; vice Kersey, promoted; Jacob Mcl
cher, Lieutenant ; vice Seayres, resigned.
Appointed—William H. Harrifon. Ensign ;
vice Thompson, promoted ; Hafting's Mark,
Ensign ; vice Heth, promoted ; John Van Hoe
len Hu'yck; Enlign ; vice Melcher, promoted.
Second Regiment.
Appointed—James Wilkinfon, Lieut. Col.
Commander; vice Doughty, declined.
Promoted Samuel Newman, Captain, vitfe
Pray, declined ; Thomas Hughes, Captain, vice
Sayles, declined; Jonathan'Hafkell, Captain,
vice Freeman, declined ; Martin Brimmer So
bier, Lieutenant, vice Newman appointed Cap
tain; John Heth, Lieutenant, vice Richard, de
clined; Cornelius Liman, Lieutenant, vice Hig
ginfon, declined; Jofiah Dickinfon, Lieutenant,
vice Huger, declined ; Edward Miller, Lieute
nant, vice Sherman, resigned.
Appointed—John Tillinghafl, Ensign, vice
George Tillinghaft, declined; Daniel Tilton,
jun. Ensign, vice Gilman, declined ; Samuel
Andrews, Ensign, vice Pierce, declined ; John
Bird, Ensign, vice Dickinfon, appointed Lieute
nant ; .John Sullivan, lun. vice Ed
waids, resigned ; John Elliot, Surgeon, vice Eu
ftis, declined.
ARTILLERY.
Appointed—Staats Morris, Lieutenant, vice
Ernest, resigned.
Mr. Cox, of Boflon, has concluded his con
trast with the corporation of Derry, refpefling
the bridge he has confined at that place. As
ler allowing the whole of Mr. Cox's charges*
the corporarion presented him with one hun->
dred pounds flerling, as a mark oftheir approba
tion. The citizens of Derry have voted Mr.
Coxa gold modal, value fifty guineas, with a
peifpe&ive view of that city on one fide, and the
following infeription on the other.—
To Lemuel Cox, of Boflon, in America, the
builder of the bridge of Londonderry, (a work
for magnitude of design, and simplicity of con
firuftion, unparalleled in the ealtern world) the
gentlemen of Derry, in token of their value for
his abilities, have presented this model, July 22,
1791. In addition to the foregoing, afilverum,
of the value of sixty pounds sterling, is intended
as a present to Mr. Cox from the cloth merchants
of Londonderry.
Accounts from Eofton fay, that violent exer
tions are making in that town for the toleration
of a Theatre. These are oppofe'd with equal vio
lence by mod of the clergy and rigid religionists
of the state, who have caught the alarm from
some hints lately thrown out by the lovers of the
drama, that " the stage might be made a school
of morality." Thcfe good gentlemen (the clergy)
on the contrary, l'ceni to have determined, that
morality {hall be taught in no school but their
own.
Several hints have been fuggeflcd in the Bos
ton prints, that Congress should, in the present
fefiion, pass alato, compelling the oamers of vejfds
to have their firflfats of fails made of American
duck, before the vejfcl shall be regijlercd.— To this
it has been objected, that in a country, like ours
perfectly free, where every man is liberty to
believe what he pleases, to wear what cloth he
pleafeson his back, and mokkifons or shoes ofi
his feet, as he fees bed ; it is, no more than
reasonable to allow hiin the lame liberty of
furnifliing his ship with canvass of his own
choosing.
Price of Stocks at New-York,
I,aft Friday noon.
Bank Stock, from 137 to 138 1-2
Six per cents. 225. 3 r-sd.
Three per cents. 12s. cd, toils. 11.
Deferred debt. 12s. lid.
Oentlemen who have fubfeription papers in
their hands, for the National Gazettee, are re»
quested to fend on the names and address of those
persons who have fubferibed, with all poflible
dispatch, to the Jiditor, at No. High-Street.
This Day are published,
SERMONS,
Iliftorical and Char&fteriftical :
By WILLIAM LINN, D. D,
One of the Minijlers of tbe Reformed Prolefant
Dutch Church, ui the city of New-York.
Sold by T. DOBSON, & R. CAMPBELL,
[Price Three Quarters of a Dollar. ]
THESE Sermons make a haitdfome vohtire
in twelves, printed with a new type, and on good
paper.REPORT
Of the Committee appointed, at a meeting, of th
Stockholders of the Bank of the United States
Held at Philadelphia the 26th ult. to prepat
Bye-ieinvsy Ordinances and Regulations, for th
government of theJaid ißank*
THE charter of incorporation granted to th
Bank of the United States, amongst othi
rights, privileges and abilities therein conveyed
having empowered the Preftdenr, Dirc&ors an.
Company of the said Bank to make, ordain, eft a
blifh and put in execution, such bye-'laws, or'di
nances and regulations, as lhail ieem neceti'ary an
convenient for the government of the laid Cor
poration : Be it ordained by the Prelideiit, Di
redtor6, and Company of the Bank oi the Unite
States,
Se&ion 1. That the Bank shall be open for th
trarrfc&ion of bufinels, every day in the yea
(Sundays, Christmas-day and the fourth t>f Jul
excepted) during such hours as the board of direc
tors shall deem advifeable.
See. 2. The books and accounts of the Ban]
shall be kept in dollars and cents, and shall b
regularly balanced on the firft Mondays in Januar
and July., in each year 5 when the half yearly di
vldends shaH be declared and publiflied in at leal
four of the public newspapers. '
Sec. 3. That the Bank shall take charge of th
cash of all those who chufe to place it there (fre
of eXpence) and shall keep it fubje£t to their or
der, payable at fight j and fliall receive depefits o
ingots of gold, bars of lilver, wrought plate, o
other valuable articles oMmali bulk, i:i the fain
manner, and return thCm on demand of the depe
fitor.
Sec. 4. That the Bank shall receive and pa
all specie coins, according to the rates and valu
that have been or shall hereafter, be eftabliflie
by Congress.
Sec. 5. That until offices of discount and de
posit are established, there shall be at leail two dii
count days in every week, when a meeting of th
board of Directors fliall be aiVembled. Discount
fliall be made at such 1 ate (not less than 5 pei
nor more than € jrer cent, per ann») as the boan
of DiredtVrs fliall deem proper, on notes or bills o
exchange that have not more th«in ii.tty days t(
jun, and with such securities, and under iuch mo
difications, as the Koa*id*o'f Diredtors, in thei
difcrttion lhall deem fatisfadtory aiui expedient.
Sec. 6. That the President fliall have power t<
convene .tlje .directors op igecial ©ccalions, an(
with the approbation oi tfie boafrd oi Diredtois
to affix the leal of the corporation to all convey,
anecs or other instruments, and lign the fame i«
behalf of the Corporation. The laid seal shall al
ways remain in the cuitody and fafe-keeping o
the President.
Sec. 7. That a committee of the board, con
Tiding of at lealt three members to be elede<
monthly by ballot, fliall visit the vaults, in whic!
the cafli arU other effects fliall be deposited, a
least ouce in every month, and make an inven
torv of the lame, to be compared with the books
in order to ascertain whether they perfectly agre
therewith.
Sec. S. That no notes of the bank shall b
struck or finned, or b<mk paper made, but by di
region of the board.
Sec. 9. That in cafe the board of Direftoi
shall at any time make a greater dividend tha
the prc-fits of the bank will juftify, and thereby di
minitfi the capital flock, the members alTentin
thereto shall.be liable-in their several individu:
capacities for the amount of the surplus so divided
See. 10. That the board of Directors shall, pre
viousto the hrii day of December in every yeai
cali a general meeting of the Stockholders to b
aiVembled, within three days after each annus
election.
Sec. 11. That the board of Direflors are here
by irnpowered to demand and receive from th
appointed to superintend the sub
criptions to the capital stock of the bank, all mo
niea which have been paid to the said commission
ers on account of the fir it specie payment.
Sec. 12. That the board of Diredlois are here
by authorized to ascertain and determine in wha
manner the remaining portions of the capita
itock, d je on the shares fubferibed, conllfting c
specie jnd public debt, fliall be paid and
Sec. 13. That the board of Direttorsare her«
by authorized andimpowered to lix and eftabliJ
requisite, fafe and convenient forms for transfer
ring bank ftock—for receiving half-yearly divi
dends—for conveying a right to proxies to reprc
/ent ftockholders—for the certificates of capitJ
stock of the bank—for the circulating and po
notes of the bank—and for the oath or affirmati
on of th'c officers of the bank, previous to thei
entering on the execution of their itipe&ive du
ties*
Sec. 14. That the board of Dire<£lors are here
by authorized and impowered to eftablith a com
mon seal, with iuitable devices—to afccrtaln an
mark out the Various duties and employments 0
the officers, clerks and servants of the bank: an>
to direct them >gccordingty,—as well as to deter
mine the amount of feourities, they shall refpec
tively give for the faittiTul difcharj,e of their du
t le3 • —to alfign to the President such additions
functions, as are not already defoliated by law
arid to re-iflue or renew at ihf.ii aifcretion, th
notes in circulation.
Sec. 15. That the directors fliall have powe
to make loans to tiie government of the Unitei
States, or of any state, to such extent and on fuel
terms, as they fliall deem expedient,—provide*
that a board c-yifilting of not fiefs than a majority
of the whole number of Directors, shall be necef
lary to decide in all such cales.
Sec. 16. That the board of Directors are here
by authorised to purchaje a lot of ground, and tc
ercdl thereon suitable building, with every neces
sary accommodation for fafetv and convenience
which the adminiiiration of the alrair&of the ba«l<
may require.
Sec. 17. That the boaid of dire<ftors are here
by empower «o form aiid eltablifh rulee
ana regulation* that they may deem necciJary foi
the iateiipr management oi the bant*.
MR. Frenzau.
The folhiv'wg ar.imated ccmptfition on Man, h'th
prcduFfidv of a young Gentleman, Hallat
Alexander Moore, ivho aied in Ja'niuin
1785. before the cofnp etion cf his fcventeentl
year. Your injerting it in your Nationa I Gazette
ufill much oblige
Tour very humblt fcrv't.
JOHN CARET.
nil mortalibus arduum est. —Hor.
WILL nought th' attempts of daring Mai
restrain ?
Nof the black profpeft of the awful dcep }
Nor the red lightning wing'd with storm,
Nor the wild winds that sweep,
And horribly deform
The whiten'd boiling of the boift'rous main!
In a frail plank fee him confide
When not a star affords it's ray,
And take a needle for his guide
Thro' the vait ocean's pathless way.
He, bolder still, the warring furface leaves j
Intruding, visits Nereus' wide domain,
Views the fta-monfters pearly caves,
Realm s ne v er difturb'd by noisy waves
And breaks the solemn silence of his reign.
But chief o'er earth, he holds refirtlefs sway :
Haughty mountains quit the skies,
Humble vallies tow'ring rife,
Head long rivers change their course,
Cataracts resign their force
And the firm texture of the rock gives way.
Lo ! ev'n he violates her parent bread,
From her dark bowels tears the ore,
Awakes the mifchief from it's reft,
Brings out the murd'rous aliments of death,
And ah ! too prodigal oi breath !
Teaches the mimic thunder how to raa*r !
Still air remains : he fees the feather'd brood
Cleave its foft bofofn with their easy vving,
Hang in the gales, or sport, or seek their food)
Or up to Heav'n on rapid pinions spring.
From low hung earth his views arise j
In his proud flight sighs to go
"o visit clearer skies
And leave the region of the storms below.
See, fee his busy mind
Already has combin'd
The powerful acid and the steel *
They war, they toil,
Whirl, foam, fermenting boil
And the whole rage of fierce contention feel.
View from their ftrife the vapour flee,
t's silken prison the light gaz difterid,
The globe impatient to get free
>elf-balanc'd, buoyant, leave th'admiring croud:
Triumphantly ascend
bear his car majestic thro' the clouds.
rhus, wondrous creature, thy all-grasping pow'
The fubjeft elements obey,
But o er thyfelf impends the gloomy hour
From which no force, no artj can favej
Thy glories muif decay,
Melt, melt away,
And blasted vanish at the dreary grave !
* Alluding to the method of procuring infam
mable air from chymical mixtures. for the purfiof
of filling balloons.
From Townfend's Journey through Spain.
Defcrrption of Don Antonio Ulloa the Pbilofcphi,
liijlorian of South America.
I FOUND him perfectly the philosopher, fenfi
ble and well informed, lively in his conversation
tree and easy in his manners. Having observe«
at his do'or two soldiers mounting guard, I expert
ed some pride of appearance, but I met with no
thing like it. This great man, diminutive ii
stature, remarkably thin and bowed down wftl
clad like a peasant, and surrounded by hi
numerous family of children, with the youngest
about two years old, playing on his knee, was fit
ting to receive mo.nmg visitors, in a room, th<
aimenfions and furniture of which, fora few mo
ments, diverted my attention from himfelf, tht
chief objedt of veneration. The room was twent\
feet long by fourteen wide, and less than eight fee:
high. In this I saw difyerfed confufedly, chairs
tables, trunks, boxes, books, and papers, a bed, ;
piefs, umbrellas, clothes, carpenter's tools, ma
thematical instruments, a barometer, a clock,
guns, pldlures, looking-glafles, foflils, mineral:
ana ihells, his kettle, bason, broken jugs, Amer
can antiquities, money, and a curious mummy
from the Canary island?, or at least its trunk
with the head and arms ; for having been the
common play-thing of his children, they
amused themselves with drawing its teeth anc
breaking off its limbs.
4 Among the extraneous foffils,.he /hewed me ;
variety of lea (hells, colledted by himfelfnear the
summits of the mountains in 'America
fume on the furface, but many bedded in tht
lime-stone rock. When I went to take my leav<
of him on quitting Cadiz, he presented me wit!
the Natural Hiftorv of Sjuth-America, a WQrJ<
highly dclerving to be tranfiated.*
LONDON, September 9.
Ycfterday the MefTengT in waiting was sent of
from the Secretary of State's office Whitehall
with letters to the King at Weymouth.
The declaration of the French King, to the
Deputation from the National Afi'embly whop*e
k nte-l the Constitutional A6l, " that he will jig
quit Paris," maybe confideieJ as a declaration
that he will accept the whole as offered to hin
without an) kind or qualification, but perhaps ar
expreliion of his hopes that if rhere be any
improper in it, the means which the Nationa
Afi'embly has provided, will be fuftcicnt to cor
1 eft the impropriety.
On the 3d of January the Nabob of Arcot re
reived a pistol lhot horn an unknown hand, which
carried off one of his fingers, and made its way
hrough his arm. His Son-in-law was (ho.,
hroygh the body. These alarming ciretim(lances
happened daring a review, and are indifputabl
•wing to the army being kept fhamefully in ar
ears.
THE ARMAMENT.
We have fliewn from authentic documents,
that the minister, after putting the country to the
?xpence of an armament, gave up every point for
A'hich that armament was equipped, and engaged
to propose to the Forte the very fame terms of
peace the Empress h?xJ propcfed, before he had
3ut a single Ihip in conjmifllon.
It remains only to be (hewn, that as the nego
:iation went on, his character became equally
cnown to both parties : and, that it ne had pof
lelfed any thing like the information which a
Vlinifter ought to polfefs, he might hfeve favcd
Timfeif the disgrace of fubmitring to propose
terms of peace to the Porte, which the Porte was
ready to accept without deigning to consult him.
That the preliminaries of peace between Rufiia
ind the Porte were fignea before the result ot thp
legociations at Peter (burgh could pollibJy be
known except from a proper estimate of trie im
secility of Mr. Pitt, will appear from the fol
owing.
of a letter frtm Prince Repnin to Prince
Gallitz,in, dated Auguji 1, 1791.
tf I have the honOr to inform your Excellency,;
hat on the 31ft July preliminary articles were |
"jgned and exchanged between me and the Grand
Vizier at Galatz, precisely on the conditions that
lave been conftantlv declared by your Court, viz.
That the Dniester /hail be the boundary of the
wo Empires.
il And to give time for the refpeftive Pleni
potentiaries to arrange a definitive Treaty between
he two Empires, an Armistice of eight months is
igreed upon between the two Armies."
N. B. The d.ite of the last memorial, at Pe
erlburg, is July 27.
St. EUSTA'I IUS, o&. 14 .
We 31 e informed that by a late order from
• pain, the Governor of Porco Rico has been ar
ffted and cast into prison ; a complaint from the
nerchantsof his haying engioflVd the whole trade
o that lfland is the supposed cause.
1 -| 1
PORTLAND, October 21.
In the (Brittfh) Literary Magazine for Aug-uft
ast, is given an elegant head of Mr. Paine, au.
hor ot the <4 Rights of Man" together with anec
otes ot him, and an account of his political wri
irtgf*.
BOSTON. O&ober 28.
TONTINE FOREVER,
The value ot" Ihares in this does not depend «p
----n puffing, nor upon long speeches, maJe bv pre
ent adventurers. If a ihare be worth id'mere
han the coll ot it, we (hall have new Tontines.
Bank Scrip this could not have been said with
■q»al certainty ; though it is highly probable that
'Iter matters are properly fixed, we'fliall have a
lew fubfeription for 24,000 fliares.
Pla-ufible icifonscan be given by plaufib'e men,
viihing such a measure, and you may reft allured,
hat ere long, we (hall have another rage of Bank
>crip. The last was wotfe to the country than a
leluge of all the Western Lands would have been.
But be that as it may, Tontines may be set up
n ever> state, and in every town, and the shares
:an never be worth more than they cost, and ifthev
ire worth fomucb, what could have been the mo
tives of the projectors of it ? was the great objrft
:o have a Tontine Piefident, and a Tontine Vice-
President, and Tontine Direflors, &c. If care is
not taken, we (hall be tontined out of our money
and our liberties. How does all Europe laugh at
Preftdents of little companies, and the paltry po
licy of making this western world, full of' K real
men !
'Tisjuft like voting, that every cent (haft pas'
for a guinea.
By all these new plans, which promise gain
.vithout labour, we are sapping the foundation ol
national dilfgence, and are making men too greal
;o be ufeful.
Now, if it be true, that this Tontine is such a
)leffing, do let it be demonstrated openly. Thi'
nftitution must be a curiofitv, which will m'aki
>ne-dollar worth two, at the instant of touching s
treat heap I address myfelf to men who havf
10 1 yet caught the Tontine Fever.
A SALEM TONTINE,
We are told, is now in contemplation, and wil
probably be opened in the course of a week, on .
)lan, it is said, that the benefit of it may be en
eyed in one's lifetime.
The public mind in anxious fufperree upon the
ate of the glorious Constitution of France, which
vas presented to the king for his acceptance ot
efufal, on the fifth day of September hit, the
Printers of public papers ought to be exceedingly
:autious, how they miireprefent facfts, lelative ti
hat important fubjedt.
It has been aflerted in several uapers, That
vhen Mr. Carnrs (the American Consul a:
left France, the king had not accepted the
-onftitution; thereb) holding up an idea, unfa
vourable to its acceptance. ] n our paper it has
>een asserted, that Mr. Carr.es left France the
lOihot Sept. and the Constitution was not then
iccepted by rhe king. These incautious r epr --
entations glvc a h ad lmpreflialn „„ d)c minds q)
hole Americans, who feci and fvmparhiz": with
h«ir patriot brethren in France. And thev aic
''■judicious, becaule the truth or" the cafe m'iirb'
d f obtained. The fart is , Mr .
Id from xh, Loire, the 16th of September, —h,
C" Nant* about the isth, of that
t requires three or four days to obtain iMelrf
;ence from P ar i», so that a'lNvhich can be Lid",'
he news relative to that momentous obj: f, '
That on the 8.» or loth of Se, , mber, so, .t.,'.
I ter the Constitution was prefrnrrd to the
iccording to the acctunt bv Mr. " n-, -i
ung ha 4 not deel .red hi; \ c v
;amll i.h c Conltituiicn.
ALBANY, OdVober 27.
Five men and a boy have been apprehended
and committed to Clavarack goal, charged with
having teen of the party who killed the (heriff of
Columbia, as mentioned in our i alt- One of them
vhen committed had lb me of the paint on his
lands and face, with which he had been dif
juiled.
The person who (hot the /heriff had fled out of
he state, with two of the principal accomplices.
\ reward of one hundred pounds, we are told, is
>tf"ered for his apprehension, and fifty pour for
:ach of the others*
In our Gazette of February 7th last, we noted
ome irregularity in the ele&ion of Federal Seni
ors by the General Assembly of the ilate of Ver
nont, in 1790 : The gentlcraen who Were then
eturned to fill that important office, [not wi
ng to trouble the National Senate with a lcruti
ly of the business] Ijme time since fignifted their
lefire that the legidature lhould come to another
hoice—which having been accepted by that hun
irable body, a new eleilion was held, and the
ame gentlemen again returned, to wit, Moses
(.obinfon, and Stephen Rot Bradley, Efquites<
NORWICH, Oflober, 27.
On the 13th inft. Mr. Samuel Walker, of
Srooklyn killed a hog 15 months and 10 days u!i,
fhich weighed 444.1b, after it was drelfed.
A few days since the tranftt ot' some pl.inet arec
he fun was vory dikernable. It is remarkable
hat the phenomenon has not been noticed by our
lironomical characters, although they always
Take a material point of remarking every thing
fthe kind, which comes within tneir calcu-
JtioDS.
GOSfcIEN, Nov. 1
A report, some time current here, has been re
ared vaiioufly : the following, however, we are
nclined to believe is neatly the truth, viz. That
n or about the firft of 00. ber, the mills ot the
■lonorable Cornelius C. Schoonmaker, Esq. at
ihawangunck, were set on fire and consumed, for
vhich he censured several perlor.i—that a ihort
•me after, as a person wa's palling an unfrequent
d road, in the neighbourhood, he fell in with a
nan in a thicket of woods, armed with a mujket,
vho enquired ot him where Mr. Schoonmaker was,
>n being answered that he did not kn..w,
laffed each other—the unarmed person had nut'
proceeded far, before he began to reflect til at the
ituation and appearance ot the man, were myile
ious—ln ftioit, he was impressed with an idea
hat some fatal proceedings were in agitation.
Under these apprehensions, he concealed his
horse, with an intention to return, and place him
feif in a situation where he might watch the ac
:lons ot the suspicious character ; he accordingly
advanced to an uncommon thick gr UU p of laurels,
vhere be might lay concealed ; on penetrating
he cluster, he found a giave newly deg—long,
tnd very deep—in consequence of this, he made a
ecret retreat and had the man apprehended, whq,
tie are informed, has since confefled th.,t he
>urnt the mills and was, at the time he was le
ered laying in wait to execute his desperate in
entions of murdering Mr. Schoonmaker and de
lofiting his body in the grave mentioned.
TO BE SOLD, BY
JOHN CAREY,
No. 112, Union-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
books,
Which may be seen everyday, until p . m. '
Among them are the following :
Folio, Homer, Plato, Plutarch,
Euiebius, Sozomcn, Thccdoiet, Virgil,
Livy, Tacitus Paterculus, Pliny, Conccjdan*
tia Lat. Concord antia Gr. Thesaurus Ciceronis,
Biblia Junii & Tremeltii, Bible de Martin,
Wells's Maps, Scapulx—Phavorini—Martinii—
Hofmanni Lexica, Vofiii Eumologicon, Aijii
quit. Ecclel. Britannicse, See.
Pindar, Cyropsdia, BentK's . Ho
race, Terence and Ovid, Juvenal,
Wmlius, Ciceronis op. ~m . Cart'ar, .Suetonius,
Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Vofiii Ars
Gram. Cluvei ii Geographia, Juflinian Cods, &c.'
oamu ?r irfra. Homer, Anacreon, Arifto
phane;, Longmus, Theophraflm, Hefiod, Pott*
mtnores Gr. liberates, Phalaris, various edition
if Horace, Virgi;, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus
Piautus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Vai. Flac
cus, Aufoilius, Buchanan, Salluft, Curtiua.
Florus, Jultin, Val. A. Genius'
Hist. August. Scriptures, F.ng/ifi W }rtncb
Tra r Jlartons ol some of the Clalfics, a greet -va-'
nety o; Grecic and Latin Grammars. 6ic. &c.
S3? Catalogues may be had of Mellrs. Rice &
Booksellers, Market.street, or of
OA Johncarey.
Oct. 31.
LIVER Y ST ABLE.
H PETER WEBBERS
AS removed h.s-Stable from Black-Horse.
/* > ta Auty, formerly kept by
t u rehial **"•*»»> i»
horses b ; to M uke in
if... .. I '^6" £ , '"ek, Month er
' ' fhe»(ie® rate.
-y; 4t
PRINTED gr
CHI EDS and SWAINE
M 'Hvm ~F let, KO. 2 59 , H.CH-ST a iftx,
I tAR UXTH-6TRIST,
VNILAfiiL FliU.