Vol. I.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF
THE UNITED STATES.
MONDAY, OElobcr 31.
Nathaniel niles and ifraei
Smith, from Vermont : Upton
Sheredine, from Maryland; William
Barry Grove, from North-Carolina ;
and Robert Barnewell, from South-Ca
rolina, appeared and took their feats.
Several petitions were read, viz. iMom
lames Beers, Leonard Walter, Ma'ga
ret Flour, Isaac Richards, Jedidiah
Brown, William Haburn, John fox,
and Elizabeth Eafton, praying compen
sation for wounds received and services
tendered in the army of the United
States, during the late war.—Said pe
titions were severally referred to the be
cretary at War.
A petition from Richard Blackledge,
praying compensation for a quantity ot
leather, furnilhed in the late war ; which
was referred to the Secretaiy o tav.
Treasury.
A memorial from Joseph Ceracchi. an
Italian Sculptor, proposing to execute
on a certain del'ign, and conditions, a
monument to perpetuate American li
berty and independence.
According to the order of the day,
the' House rcfolved itfelf into a com
mittee of the whole on the schedule or
enumeration of the inhabitants ot the
United States.—ln debating upon this
fubjeft,
Mr. Lawrance observed, that the ra
tio of representation andfome provision
refpefttng S. Carolina were the princi
pal obje&s in view. He meant to pro
pose a resolution relative to the repre
sentation, after which he thought the
committee might defer the further con
sideration of this fubjeft for some days,
that gentlemen might have time to make
up their minds upon the hufitiefs. He
then moved, that till the next census be
taken, one member should continue to
be the rcprefentative of thirty thousand
inhabitants.
Mr. Livermore thought that the de
termination of their constituents ought
to be previously known on the amend
ment to the conflitution, proposing that
the representation of one for every thir
ty thousand do continue until the num
ber of Representatives shall amount to
one hundred. The people's agreeing
to that amendment would oppose the
motion before the House. If the peo
ple rejected the amendment, he fliould
oppose so large a representation as one
for every thirty thousand.
Several other gentlemen having spok
en on the fubjeft,
Mr. Sedgwick, after reading to the
House a calculation he had made, {latins
the number by which eacn slate won c
be represented, according to the several
ratios of representation, obierved, that
the general sense of the people seemed
to be that the number of representa
tives (hould be one hundred until m
creafed by the ratio of one to forty thou
sand. He thought the ratio of 33 or
04.000 more conformable to public opi
nion than anv other number ; but that
011 this fubje£t the House had nothing
whereon to found their conclusions ;
for his own part he wished the Hou.c
of Representatives always to coniiit ol
about one hundred members.
Mr.Livermore was for the ratio of on(
to forty thousand. The Houle woulc
then consist of about eighty members.
This v.-ould give less occasion for com
plaints of expence, and the public, ir
his id'*s. would be equally well served
He v/iftied the House, if they fettled an)
ratio might adopt that of one to 40,000
By PHI LIP /FRENEA IT.
THURSDAY, November 3, I 79 1 -
Mr. White, said that the general
•oice of the people was for an increalcd
eprefentation at certain dated periods.
3ne to thirty thousand feerned to be the
general idea. The amendment propof
*d might not always give one to thirty
:houfand, but it would secure an m
;reafc of the representation as the po
pulation of the country increased. lie
concluded with wishing the Houie
would not immediately decide on the
fubjeft.
Mr. Dayton wifbed the motion to lay
over till tomorrow for further conlidei
atioh. He thought the general fcnti
ment to be in favour of thirty thouland,
but as a medium between the oppolite
opinions, he moved an amendment foi
thirty-five thousand.
Mr. Seney was against any hasty de
cisions, especially when the Houie was
so thin of members as at present. Upon
i motion of his to that purpose, the
:ommittee rose, reported progress, and
ifked leave to fit again.
Mr. Smith (S. CTJ wished that the
late of South-Carolina might be allow
;d a longer time to make a return o
heir cenlus, the enumeration being not
yret completed, but would be io in a
"hort time. He therefore made a motion
;o this effect which was ordered to lie
Dn the table.
Mr. Sedgwick, Mr. Bourne (M.) and
Mr. White were appointed acommittee
o prepare find bring in a bill or bills pro
viding the means by which persons
:harged in any state with treason,
iv or other crime, who flee from justice,
foall, on the demand of the executive
iuthority of the state, from which '•hey
led, be delivered up, to be removed tc
;he state having jurifdi&ionof the crime;
ilfo providingthe mode by which apei
ion held to ferviceor labour in one State
under the laws thereof, escaping into a
nother, fliall be delivered up, on claim
of the party to whom such service or la
bour may be due.
Mr. Ames, Mr. Dayton, Mr. Brown
Mr. Fitzfimons, and Mr. iuckcr wcr<
appointed a committee to report a regu
lar and uniform mode of proceeding n
cases of contested Eledions of Member
of the House.
Upon motion of Mr. Sedgwick a com
mittee was appointed to bring in a bi
providing compensation for widows
orphans, and invalids in certain tales—
The committee, Mr. Wadfworth, Mi
Smith (S. C.) and Mr. Silvester.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) having moved tc
proceed on the President s Ipeech, Mi.
Lawrance proposed the defemng 1 ier ~-
0 f till to-morrow, that the Houienught
be acquainted with the proceedings o.
the Senate on that lubject.
Upon motion of Mr. Smith, the ques
tion was taken and carried, that tlu
whole house be discharged from farthei
proceeding on the Prefidenfs ipcech
and that to-morrow be 01 , l
consideration of the iame. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, Nov. 1.
Two other members appeared anc
took their feats, viz. Jofiah Parker, from
Virginia, and Anthony Wayne, iron:
Georgia.
A mefiage in writing was then receiv
ed from the President of the Ututec
States, by Mr. Secretary Lear, as fol
lows —
United States, Nov. 1, 1791
Gentlemen of the Senate and of the House
of Rcprejcntatives,
I received yesterday from the judge
of the diftrift of South-Carolina a lcttei
inclofmg the presentment, of the gran
iury to him, and ftatmgthe causes whicl
C prevented the return of the ccnfu:
from that diftria, copies of which an
now laid before you.
G. WASHINGTON.
Another mcfTage was received fron
the President, viz.
United States, Oft. 31, 1791.
Gentlemen of the Senate and of the
House of Representatives.
I fend you herewith the arrangemcnl
which has been made by me, pursuant
to the ast, entitled, "An ast repealing.
after the last day of June next, the au
ti°s heretofore laid upon djftilled fpi
-11 ts imported from abroad, and in?,
others in their (lead ; and also upon spi
rits distilled within the United States,
and for appropriating the fame,' in re
s pest to the sub-divisions of the several
diftrifts, createdby the said ast into sur
veys of infpeftion, the appointment of
officers for the fame, and the afiignment
of compensations.
G. WASHINGTON.
Mr. Muhlenberg, from the committee
appointed to prepare and report luch
Handing rules and orders of proceeding
as arc necdTary to be observed in the
House, made a report, which was read
and ordered to lis on the table.
Mr. Smith, (S. C.J called up his mo
tion of yesterday for appointing a com
mittee to bring in a bill granting longer
time for the return of the South-Caroli
na census; upon which the question was
taken up, and a committee appointed
accordingly, consisting of Mr. Smith,
(S. C.) Mr. Boudinot, and Mr. Venablej
whofoon after reported a bill for the
above purpose, which having gory?
through a fir ft and second reading was
referred to a committee of the whole
to-morrow.
Petitions were presented to the house
from Levi Farnfworth, Luey Bond 'wi
dow of the late Col. M* illiam Bond, de
ceased) & John Torrey refpefti vely pray
ing the liquidation and .payment of
claims againftthe United States for mi
litary Cervices rendered during the late
war .—Referred to the Secretary at
War, who is inftrti&ed to examine the
fame, and report thereupon to the house.
Upon motion of Mr. B. Bourne, it
was ordered that the Secretary of the
Treasury be directed to report to the
house the amount of the fubfeription;
to the loans proposed by the act making
provihon for the public debt, as well
in the debts of the refpcftive states, a?
in the domcftic debt of the United
States, and of the parts which remain
unfubferibt*!, together with such mea
furesasarej in his opinion, expedient
to be taken qin the fubjeft.
The house then, according to the or
derofthe day, proceeded to confidci
the speech of the Prcfielent of the Uni
ted States, which beingread,
It was ordered that so much of the
said speech as relates to the eftablifh
mcntofa militia, magazines, arlcnals,
and fortifications, be referree. to Mr.
Wadfworth. Mr. Dayton, Mr. Giles.
Mr. Ward, Mr. Gordon, Mr. Wayne,
and Mr. Steele, with inftruftions tc
bring in a bill, or bills, providing sot
the fame.
Mr. White moved for the appoint
ment of a committee, to report a bill foi
the establishment of a land-office.—Mr
Williamfon, Mr. White, and Mr. Bou
dinot, were cholen a committee.
Mr. Lawrance moved for the appoint
ment of a committee, to report a bill foi
the regulation of the trade and inter
course with the Indian tribes—com
mitted to Mr. White, Mr. Lawrance.
and Mr. Steele.
It was then ordered, that the Secreta
ry of the Treasury, be directed to re
port to the House, such information a:
he may have obtained, refpefting an;,
difficulties which may have occui red ir
the execution of the ast, " repealing, af
ter the la ft day of June next, the dunes
heretofore laid upon distilled fpmts im
ported from abroad, and laying other.
Numb. 2.
n their stead ; and also upon spirits dif
illed within the United States, and for
appropriating the fame together with
lis opinion thereupon. Adjourned.
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 2.
A petition of John Torrey was read,
praying to be reimbursed a sum ot
noney which he had been compelled to
pay for waggonage on account of the
United States.
Ordered to lie on the tabic.
A petition of Robert Conyngham,
praying compensation for services ren
dered in the navy of the United States,
in the late war.
Ordered to lie on the table.
The several petitions of John Cooper,
Roleert Crooke, Robert Hodge, Os
wald KelTelbaugh, and Abraham Levi,
refpe&ivcly praying compensations for
wounds received or services rendered
n the army or navy of the United
States during the late war. Referred to
;he Secretary at War.
Petitions of Robert Aitken and Tho
mas Bradford, printers, praying to be
employed in the public printing bufincfs
of the United States.
Ordered to lie on the table.
Petition of Nicholas F. Weftfall,
praying compensation for services ren
dered in the American army, in the
late war.
Ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Dayton moved the following re
"olution :
That the Secretary of the Treasury be
iirctted to report to this house whether
my, and what alterations, in favor of
he spirits which shall be distilled from
irticles of the growth or produce of the
United States, or from foreign auiclcs
within the fame, can, in his opinion,
ae made in the ast for laying duties upon
spirits di(tilled within the Unued States,
:onfiftently with its main dclign, and
with the maintenance of the public faith.
Ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Giles called the attention of the
House to a meflage from the Prcfident
of the United States, containing a ra
prelentation from the officers and sol
diers of the Virginia line on conti
nental eftabliihment refpefting bounty
lands, &c. The papers accompanying
laid meflage being read, Mr. Giles mov
that the fame be referred to a select
committee, to report their opinion
upon, which motion was ordered to lie
on the table.
Mr. Giles moved a rcfoliition in fu'b
ftance, that the Secretary at War be in
structed to lay before the House a (late
ment of all balances of pay which ap
pear by the books in his office to be
due to the officers and soldiers. Order
ed to lie on the table.
Mr. Vining moved a rcfolution, that
a committee be appointed to prepare
and bring in a bill to eitablifh an uni
form system of bankruptcy throughout
the United States, which was read and
ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Dayton moved a rcfolution, that
the board of commiflioners for fettling
the accounts between the United States
and individual states, be directed to re
port what progress they have made, and
what profpeft of the bufmefs being
finally completed. Ordered to lie on
the table.
Pursuant to the order of the day, the
house rejolved itfelf into a committee
of the whole, to take into ccnfideration
the bill grafting further time formakng
returns of the enumeration of tne inha
bitants in the district ot S. Carolina ;
after lome time the committee role, and
reported the bill with sundry amend
ments, some were agreed to, and others
rejected, and the bill was then ordered
to be engrofled.
A meflage wa? received from the Se
nate, informing that the petition ofthe difti!!ers of Ne\v-York, praying for
alterations in theexciic act, had been
read in the Senate, and by them direct
ed to be sent to the houf'e.
On motion of Mr. Goodhue, order
ed that the petitions of the distillers of
Boston and New-York be referred to
the Secretary of the Treafiiry for in
formation. Adjourned.
LONDON, Sept. 6.
The l'pirit of the Navigation ast has
for lome time past been completely de
feated, by the having become
the general carriers of all our tranf-at
lantic commerce. Congress have, for
nearly twelve months past enacted an
additional port duty, amounting to near
Jool. Sterling upon the entrance of any
Britilh {hip freighted with British mer
chandize. Notwithstanding this, Amer
ican vellels still continue to pay nothing
more on their arrival in England than the
common alien duty; which is so trifling,
that our ports are now full of their {hip
ping, who get freighted immediately,
while English Ihips usually employed in
that trade, lay useless in the docks with
brooms at their mast-heads denoting
them only for sale. Surely some imme
diate measure will be adopted by Gov
ernment, to give at least an equal share
of the carrying trade to our own velfels.
and not to fuffer the whole thus to fall
into the hands of our revolted colonists,
to the manifeft injury and degradation
of the British marine.
SAVANNAH, Ottober 6.
The Augusta Chronicle of the 24th
ult. mentions, that his excellency the
governor has been pleased to appointthe
hon. Nathan Brownfon, Esq. and gene
rals Twiggs and Clarke, commissioners
to attend the running of the temporary
line between this state and the Creek na
tion.
Mr. Ellicott (lately arrived from the
Northward) and the commissioners, we
are informed, have gone from Augusta
to perform the abovementioned bufmefs.
CHARLESTON, (5. C.) Ofloter 1.
We are informed, that the hon. Isaac
Holmes, Efq, Lieut. Governor of this
State, has been appointed Collector of
the enftoms for the diftrift of South-
Carolina, in the room of George Abbot
Hall, Esq. deceased.
SALE M, Oflober 25.
Last week, Capt. Barker arrived
here from Nantz, which port he left the
i3thof September. Burrill Carnes,
Esq. Contulfrom the United States for
the port of Nantz, came palfenger with
him.
When Capt. Barker left Nantz, the
people wereexpefting with pleal'ure the
royal acception of the Constitution,
which ast they would consider as com
pleting the revolution, and establishing
their political happiness. The King's
refufal of it would be considered as the
signal for an attempt at a counter-revo
lution.
Tranjlaiions from the papers brought by
Capt. Barker.
Brandenburgh, Aug. 16. Accord
ing to general opinion, confirmed in eve
ry quarter, we doubt not an intended al
liance between Aujiria and Prvjfia.
Hague Aug. 15. We are full of
conjectures, when we fee the House of
Aujiria and the King of Prujfia in confi
dence, so contrary to the face of affairs.
Madrid, Aug. 18. M. Count de
Laify, Commandant in Catalonia, has
ordered the Consul of France, residing
at Barcelona, to leave Spain. A de
tachment of Grenadiers conducted him
to the Frontiers of Franee. This French
Patriot is accuf'ed of imprudent propo
lals against the Spanish Government,
and of having spoken favorably of the
French Revolution.
BOSTON, Oa. 25.
A correspondent hopes that Congress
■will in their prel'ent session, compcl the
owners of every ship or veflel, to make
the firft suit of fails of American duck.
This would cffeftually answer the pur
pose of letting up and profccuting the
manufacture of that ufeful and exten
sive article, and be the means of saving
to this country many thcufand pounds
yearly.
BALTIMORE, OSober at
Extracl of a letter from Charge-Town, da
ted. the -lift Instant.
The public Sale of Lot's in the Fed
eral City, ended on W'edpeiday even
ing ; but the private files dill continue,
and probably will all the week. In the
whole, there have been, at lead, twelve
hundred lots "fold.—The average of the
public sales, is something upwards of
£. 100, for a lot of 40 feet front and 130
or 140 deep.—The sales made by indivi
duals, I fuipeft, were at a lower rate.—
Indeed they have fold, in many parts of
the City, and the public sales were con
lined to that part which lies betwee-n
the Prelidcnt's Square and Georgetown,
which it is imagined, will be firft im
proved, being so convenient to the pre
sent Seat of trade.—tell your Friend
, that it is not yet too late to
make good Speculations ; but that', if he
means to do any thing to the purpofc,
he mull not delay it too long."
OBSERVATIONS ON THE PROSPECTS OF
AMERICA.
{-From a late Connecticut paper. J
PUBLIC inealures, and the proceed
ings of government, are open to the in
fpedion of its citizens, and subject to
their animadversion. Enough appear in
every place to censure, and point out
the deicfts and imperfections incident
to our policy ; but few to show its ex
cellencies : the Citizen undertakes this
pleasing talk, and wishes for the candid
attention of the public, while he takes
a view of the happiness and advantages
hisfellow-citizensofthe (late now enjoy,
and the means of continuing and im
proving them. The firft thing which
itrikes the mind of an attentive obser
ver of the preient situation of Connec
ticut, is her connexion with the general
government. That government is every
day acquiring firmnefs and (lability,
Though the habits, tempers and inter
ests of the various parts of the empire
are so different, that in speculation we
should pronounce it impoflible for the
members of the general government to
unite in any public mealures; yfet ex
perience has shewn that mutual conde-
Icenlion will surmount tliefe obstacles,
and enable the conductors of this great
political machine to proceed in such a
manner as to give general fatisfaction.
Our remote situation from other na
tions promises long peace ; they will
not be fond of contending with ap em
pire so fall eucreafing, so firmly eftab
liflied, and having such powerful re
lources at command. The causes which
create war among European powers, do
not here exist ; and we have'nothing to
fear to disturb the public tranquility,
unlcfs it be the petty depredations of the
Indians on our frontiers, which a small
exertion of the military power will easi
ly quell.
The general government being of our
own appointment, the members of it
being responsible to the people, and their
conduct eXposed to public censure, they
have every inducement to conduct with
integrity ; so that if we ast wifely in the
choice of our officers, we have little to
fear from internal oppression. While
the citizens of Connecticut view them
selves as a refpe&ablepart of so flourifh
ing an empire the profpeft appears pe
culiarly pleasing ; equally pleasing is it
also to view our owndomeftic situation,
policy and government.
By emigration from abroad, and po
pulation at home, our empire encreafes
with a rapidity that astonishes European
calculators, and which will soon fill the
extensive regions of the weft. By a ju
dicious management of ourrefources,our
revenue hath already become respec
table, and placed public credit on a per
manent bahs. So that those who are in
tcrefted in the public funds, consider
their property as reftingon a firm foun
dation. The lale of the western lands,
and duties wifely laid onluch articles of
foreign goods as we do not need, and as
ought to bear a high price, will proba
bly be fufficient to discharge the public
demands, and pay the price of our in
dependence, without burthening the
people with direst taxes. A government
with iuch resources and revenues firmly
established, becomes refpeftable abroad.
Foreign nations fear her power, and co
vet her alliance. Her flag which dis
plays itfelf in every commercial port, is
universally honored.
PHILADELPHIA,
, November, 3. ■
COMMUNICATION
Of the President of the United States tQ the
Hcrufe of Reprefentativcs on Tuesday lad—
Sec Ji*ft.page of this paper,
ARRANGEMENT made by the Pre
fdent of the United States, with refpeel
to the f ibdivifions of the Jeveral dijtriEls
thereof into surveys, the appointment of
officers, and the affignvient of compenfa
t.ions, pursuant to the aEI of Congress
pa/fed the 3d day of March, 1791, en
titled, " An aEI repealing, after the lajl
day of- June next, the duties heretofore
I'.hd upon distilled spirits imported from
abroad, and laying others in their flead ;
and also upon spirits diftUled within the
States, and for appropriating the fame.
N£W-H A MPSHIRE forms one survey of in
fpe&icjn. The duties of infpettor are per
formed by the supervisor. To this office
Jolhua Wentworth has been appointed. His
compensation is a salary of five hundred
dollars, and a commiflion of one half per
centum,
MASSACHUSETTS forms three surveys of in
ipe&ion. No. i consists of the province of
Main $ No. 2 of the counties of EfTex, Mid
dleiex, Worcester, Hamplhire, and Berk
shire J No. 3 of the relidue of the state.
Nathaniel Gorham has been appointed su
pervisor. His compensation is a salary of
eight hundred dollars, and a commission of
one hair per cent. The supervisor performs
the duties of infpeftdr of survey No. 1.
Jonathan Jackson has been appointed in.
fpettor of survey No. 2, and Leonard Jarvis
for survey No. 3. The compensation to
each of these infpe&ors is a salary of five
hundred dollars and a commiflion of one half
per cent.
RHODE-ISLAND, forms one survey* The du
ties of infpeiftor are performed by the super
visor. John S. Dexter has been appointed
to this office, with an allowance of a salary
of five hundred dollars, and a commission of
one half per cent.
CONNECTICUT forms one survey. The du
ties 0i infpedtor are performed bv the foper
vifor, who is John GHeller. His compensa
tion is a salary of fix hundred'dollars, and a
commission of one half per cent.
VERMONT forms One survey j of which the
supervisor performs the duties of infpe&or.
Noah Smith has been appointed to this of
fice. His allowance is a salary of four hun
dred dollars, and a commission of one half
per cent.
NEW-YORK forms one survey, of which the
supervisor a&s as infpeftor. William S.
Sftiith has been appointed to this office, with
a faiary of eigbt hundred dollars, and a com
mifiion of one half percent.
NEW-JERSEY forms one survey. The super
visor performs the duties of infpedtur. To
this office Aaron Dunham has been appoint
ed. His compensation is a salary of four
hundred dollars, and a commission of one
half per cent.
PENNSYLVANIA forms four surveys. No. j
conlifts of the city and county of Philadel
phia, and the counties of Bucks and Mont
gomery. No. 2 of the counties of Berks
Northampton, Luzerne, and Northumber
land j No. 3 of the counties of Delaware
Chester, Lancaster, York, Dauphin, Cum
berland, Franklin, Miffiin, and Huntington •
No. 4 of the counties of Bedford, Wettmare
land, Washington, and Allegany. The su
pervisor for the cfiflrift, George Clymer, acts
as infpeftor of survey No. 1. His compen
sation is a salary of one thousand doliars, and
a commillion oj one half per cent. James
Collins has been appointed infpedtor of fur -
vey No. 2, Edward Hand of survey No. 7
and John Neville of survey No. 4, The
allowance to each of these infpedors is a
salary of four hundred and fifty doifars, and
a commission of one per cent.
DELAWARE forms one survey, of which th
fupervifor acts as infpeftor. His compen
sation IS a lalary of four hundred dollars.'and
a commiflion of one per cent. Henry Lati
mer, who was appointed supervisor has'reiicn
ed his office.
MARYLAND forms two surveys. No. i com
prehends the counties of St. Mary's, Somer
set CaWert -Queen Anne's Caroline, Kent,
Charles, 1 albot, Doicheiter, Baltimore, Ann
Arundel, Worcester,_ Harford, Cacil, and
Prince George'i. No. 2 consists of the coun
ties of Montgomery, Washington, Frederick,
and Allegany. The supervisor of the 3if-
J. ' G «° r 6 e Gale, officiates as' infpedor of
lunrey, No. 1. His compensation is a salary
of seven hundred dollars, and a commiflion
of one per cent. Philip Thomas has been
appointed inlpeftor of survey No. 2, with a
salary of tour hundred and fifty dollars, and
a commiflion of one per cent
VIRGINIA has been divided into seven surveys
o mfpedtion. No. 1 consists of the counties
mberland '
eftmo.eland, King George, Caroline, Han
over, Hennco, Ch'aiieS City, James City,
Warwick, Elizabeth City, Y o ,k, Glouccllc'r
Matthews, Middlesex, Eflex, Kins and'
Q.ueen King William, and New Kent,
No. 2 of the counties of Stafford, P,i n( >
W'lliam, Fairfax, Loudoun, Fauquier, Cul
rpper, Albemarle, 1. 0 „i,i anASpo .
™ of the co„nri.,„f G Jch -
and. Fluvanna, Amherft, BeJiord, s tan k
Patrick, Pittlylvania, HahtiT
Cnarlotte, Mecklenburg,Lunenbn, g, Notto'
Am ',' a > Ilt
•»gha ra , Prince Edward, and Caiobe,! :
4- of the counties of P ; inc,n Aan '
Che(Verfie!d, Nd:folk ( Isle of Wight, S
Surry, Prince George, Dinwiddie, B
wick, Greencfville, Southampton, 1 Najice
mond, Accomacfc, and Northampton ; No. -
ot the cour.riesof Frederick, Berkley, Himp.
ftire, Hardy, Monongalia, Ohio, Harrifon,
Randblph, Pendleton, Auguia, Rocking
ham, aMj Shanatidoali ; No. 6 or'the coun
ties of Rockbridge, ; Botetourt, Montgomery,
Wythe, WafDington, Ruflel, Greenbriar,
and Kanhawa j No. 7 confifU of the dif
tridt of Kentucky. Edward Carfington has
been appointed supervisor, with la faiarv of
onethoufand dollars, and a commiflion of
one per centum. Ragfdale has been
appointed infpeclor of lurvev No. 1 • Ed
ward Stevens of No. a ; Mayo Carrington
ot No. 3 j Thomas Newton of No. 4 • Ed
ward Smith of No. 5 j Ja nri Brackenridge
ot No. 6 ; and Tnomas Ma>ffia!l'of No. 7.
The compensation to these officers are to each
a salary offour hundred and fifty dollars, and
a commMTioh of one percent*
NOP. 1 H-CAROLINA forms five furvcys. No. 1
consists of the counties of Wilmington, On
flow, New-Hanover, Brunfvvick, Bladen,
Duplin, Anion, Richmond, Moore, Cum
berland, Robertfon, and Sampson r No. 2 of
the count.es of Carpet, Hyde,' Beaufort,
,Craden, Jones, Dobbs, Johnson and
Wayne j No. 3 of the courrtries of K.urri
tuck, Cambden, Pafquotank, Perquimans,
Chowan, Gates, Hartford, and Tyrrell :
No. 4 of the counties of Northampton, Mar
tin, Halifax, Nafh, Edgeromb, Warren,
Franklin, CatVefT, Orange, Rudolph
Grandville, Wake, and Chatham ; No. e
ot the counties of Mecklenburg, Montgo
mery, Roai, Iredel, Surry, Stokes, Rockinf-
J n lfo ' d ' Linco 'n. Rutherford, Burke,
and Wilkes. William Polk has been ap
pointed supervisor, and a salary of seven hun
dred dollars and a commiflion of one per
cent, have been assigned him as a compen
sation. James Read has been appointed
Infpeftor of survey No. , , John Daves of
Benbur y of No. 3 ; John
hitaker, of No. 4 j and Joseph M'Dowel
the.elder of No 5. The compensation to
the infpeilors, of Surveys No. 1, 2 and .
are to each a commiflion of two per centum :
tbefe infpedtors being alio officers of ths
customs. A salary of four hundred and sis.
\ 001 a:s and a commiflion of one per cent,
have been assigned as a compensation to the
dvef, ' iUrVCyS No- 4' and 5 '<%<:-
SOUTH CAROLINA forms three furvevs—
Berl'l' Co "£? S rt.° f the counties of Colleton,
mew rh Y 2 , ° ton ' Bartholo-
F, ha '''' lon ' G«nvilJe, Hilton, Lin-
v U J- V ' Winto ». Orange, and
ifburgh ; No. 2 of the counties of Win
rn«o^cn>' b ft S , h ' V b,;rty> Kin B ft °« Par
don Cl* » Marlborough, Claren
land r c°?!' Krrfhaw, Rich.
Fairfield, Chester and York, No. ,
of the counties of Eogefield, Abberville,
Newbury Laurens, Union, Spartanburg,
Greeiiv.He and Pendleton. Tin duties of
Z n T N ° r ' 3re Permed by
the fupemfcr, Daniel Stevens, to whom a
salary ot lever, 'hundred dollars and a com
million or one per cent have been assigned as
a compenfition. Benjamin Cudworth has
been appoirned infpedtor of survey No. 2
and Silvan, s WMker of No. 3. he com!
penfation assigned to the infpedlor of survey
No. z is a iferv df thtee hundred dollar,
and a comm.ffion of two per centum ; to the
infpeaor of survey No. 3 a faiarv of four
hundred and fifty dollars and a commission of
one per cent.
G *°lZ l i f ° r r one l Ur «y- The supervisor,
J 11 Matthewij, officiates'ss infpeftor. The
compensation assigned him is a salary of five
hundred dollars and a commiflion of one
pel cent.
The commiflion in each cafe is computed up
on the nett produdtof the duties on spirits dittii
t JU u- to whom
bv ded 5 l prod,j(} is determined
all ore us the co 171 penfa tion
all preceding charges.
With regard to tbe ports the following arrange,
ments have benn m,ue. At the ports®, t which
here are both a colleiW and a surveyor, the lat
l a col^ n n aFi ";" ,t L d *P 'nfpeftor : where there
50 V h ' S b ' :e ' l a PPointed, and
linte T r '" r,e, ° r °. a }r he a? -
n rt r ' Ine r° 9at neither collector
nor lurveyor resides, have been placed under the
r K o V h , CCO " eaororfu r vev °r °f the dif
elon?' aS tbe °" eor thc °ther
ne nfp e &or of the revenue for the port where
herehaes. The duties of these
confined tofpmts imported from abroad ; and aj
hey bear an analogy to those which they have
b::L a ffigtd? cdto ~' no^f-
, r , h „ e dircfled by the ,Sth feclion of the
law to be appointed by the supervisors have been
denominated collectors of the revenue. Tl fe
number has been of necessity left to the discretion
of the supervisor. with these wn ,r,' ; • Uon
-l.at they ffiould be in all
per execution ot the bul.nefs would pcrmi P /1
that, in regard to the colleflion of the t»,\
Hills, one tor each cotinty would f u ffi cs • buc'-his
regulation necefja.ily varies, as the Dill.
or less dispersed. Where tC* V'* mor =
duties on fpirft. dimiied m s° n e P. 'hi
and of four per centum on iT" 1 for ;'^ m " erials .
ties ariling of the du "
materials, whether ~e r »11 tro '' 11 domc(l 'c
This difference was didta d" h" 'h-"'"-
nature of the business J C
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Treasury Department,
Offofcer 31ft, , 79 i. \V'onday lad at twelve o'clock, tKe Vice T Pfe
fid-: .it, attended by the Senate, repaired to th<
irelidents houfc, and presented him with the
Following address :
S I R,
THE senate of the United States have receiv
td with the highest fatisfailion, the aflurances o
public prol'perity contained in your speech to botl
houses : 'the multiplied blefiings of Previdenci
have not escaped our notice, nor failed to excu';
our gratitude.
The benefits which flow from the reftoratior
of public and private confidence, are confpicuou
and important, and the pleasure with which wt
contemplate them, is heightened by your furthei
afiurance of those further communications whicl
shall confirm their existence and indicate their
source.
Whilst we rejoice in the success of those mili
tary operations which have been directed againfl
the heftile Indians, we lament with you the ne-
Ceffity that ha 3 produced them,,and we partici
pate the hope, that the present profped of a ge ■
neral peace, on terms of moderation and justice.
may be wrought into complete and permanent
e-ffetft, and that the measures of government may
equally embrace the security of our frontiers, and
the general interests of humanity ; our solicitude
to obtain, will insure our zealous attention to, an
object so warmly espoused by the principles oi
benevolence, and so highly interesting- to the ho
nor and welfare of the nation.
The several fubje&s which you have particu
larly recommended, and those which remain of
former fefiionj, will engage our early considera
tion ; we are encouraged to prolecute them with
alacrity and fleadinefs, by the belief that they
will interest no paflion, but that for the general
welftwe, by aflurance of concert, and by view of
t-hofe arduous and important arrangements which
have been already accomplilhed.
We observe, fir, the constancy and activity of
your zeal for the public good. The example
will animate our efforts to promote the happiness
of Our country.
Signed by order and in behalf of the Senate.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United
States, and President of the Senate.
The PRESIDENT'S Reply.
Gentlemen,
THIS manifeftation of your zeal for the.honor
and happiness of our country, derives its lull va
lue from the lhare which your deliberations have
already had in promoting both.
I thank you for the favorable sentiments with
which you view the part I have borne in the ar
duous talk committed to the government of the
United States ; and desire you to be allured-that
all my zeal will continue to second those further
efforts for the public, good which are insured
by the spirit in which you are entering on the
present feflion.
G. WASHINGTON.
Tuesday last, Joseph Ravarra, Esq. wasintio
duced to the President, by the Secretary of
State as Conful-Generai in the United States
from the republic of Genoa.
The account in our last, conveyed in an ex
tra?! of a letter from New-Yoik, relative to a
defeat of the whites by the negroes on the 25th
of September, proves to be without foundation.
We are informed by letters, &c. from Cape-
Francois, dated O&ober 7, that the exercit'e of
the Droit d'.Aubaine&i\\ continues to be suspended
in St. Domingo, and it is expected well be en
tirely annihilated at the receipt of the next dis
patches from the National AfTembly of old
France.
Letters from Cape-Francois by the Hety,
Capt. Cloufer, arrived here on Monday lad ;
mention an engagement with the blacks in
which, after a bioody co'iteft the negroes were
defeated and driven out of their entrenchments
with the loss of a great number killed and
wounded. The foutb fide and weft end of the
island are tolerably quiet, and although the ne
groes had risen in the neighborhood of Port-au-
Prince, thty had, when the last accounts left the
island, attempted nothing injurious further than
threatening the whites that if certain ptivilegei
were not granted them they would follow the
example of the other insurgents. —In short, the
once flourithing colony of St. Domingo (Vein 1
to be in a diftrelfed Gtuation, and little hopes oi
peace and lately being rellored until more foices
arrive in the ill-ind.
Extracl of a letter from Cape-Francois, datci
Ottobcr 4.
" According to the representation made to the
General AfTemWv on September 29, no lef
than two hundred sugar plantations are deflroy
ed on the north fide of the island. T lie devas
tations of the Cafeyrs in the northern and west
ern parts still continue, and the number ol >e
volted Haves are eflnnaled at lead at one hun
dred thousand. The Englilh at Jamaica have
sent us Come affillance of Shipping and sailors,
which seem not to have it 111 their power to fc
any clung effe&ual towards quelling the revoii.
The Jamaica Bine Mountain negroes are lookec
for in a few days, tome fay five or lix regiments,
whose modes of fighting it is thought will an
swer better in the mountain;, than thole prac
ticed by the whites. A Britiih ftiip oi war o
fifty guns and a sri/ate arc arrived at Port-au-
Prince with arms andammunition, burno troops,
which alone mthe present exigency could be o
any service. We have every real'on to luppole
that this infurreQionwi'l have a conciution linn
lar to a former one in Jamaica; " ie negroes
retiring into rnacceflible mountains, "where they
will bid defiance, and in the end lorce us to de
clarethem independent to prevent their inva
sions and robberies."
A pian IS agitated in 'Providence, ;R. I
r P e edy tflablilhment of a Sail, Duck
and J wine Manufactory in that place. A num
ber of public-<pirited gentlemen arc at the heac
ot this undertaking, who have undertaken tc
lupport the pian to the utmost of their ability
1 his advantageous and very nccelfary branch ol
null as Is is proposed to be carried on by rift;
P ilons, m equal shares ; or any perl'on may
lave liberty to take any number of'(hares, 110
exceeding ten, Co as to fill up the said fifiy
hares in cai: the fame number of individual
üblcubers do not offer.
The Governor of the Gate of New-York ha
lined a Proclamation, offering a reward for ap
irchendiag the persons who inhumanly murder
: ' t-fnehus Ho; 3 eboom, Iheri'f of Columbia
ounty.
Exlraß ofa Utter from Portugal, Aug. i 3.
" We have jufl received information here,
that it is thought may be depended on, that thcii
High Mightiness the States General of the
United Netherlands have prohibited the impor
tation of tea by into their territones.
As to other matters, the Spanish decree, refpeft
ng ft rangers, is exprelfed in lo vague a manner,
31 rather is left foopen to conttiuition, that it is
aid already to have received three diffeient in
:crpretations from the Spaniih Mini ftry. There
lave arrived here within these few days, several
:oreign mechanics, who leem to be very anxious
ind are making every enquiry for information,
elative to the probability of their succeeding
with their fabacs in the United Stttes of Ame
rica. I will jull aiid, tor the information of
merchants and others, that upon threfliing out
he harvest, in Portugal, the crop appears to be
nuch finaller than was imagined to have beer
rom the appearance of the straw ; conl'equently
he demand for wheat and corn from Ameiica
vill be augmented. In some parts of Spain
ind France, the harvest has alio turned out very
nditferently."
Ext rati of a letter from London, Sept. 6.
" The people have beeii very much diflWif
ied with the neediefsexpence and distress lately
;iven to trade, :n which even the American
hipping have had their {hare, as the n.cn on
>oard them have been taken from mere wanton
leis, by the press-gangs. Within the lali month
t has, it leems, been difcovcred by some officer
n the service of the revenue, that all American
-eifels transporting merchandizes to the iflandsof
juernley and Jerfcy, arc, under an ast ot
Charles the Second's reign, fabjeft to seizure,
nd in conlequence of which, two vessels, after
laving delivered theii cargo of vobacco there,
nd proceeded to Liverpool, have been anrefted;
>ne other has since been arretted on her arrival
t Gtiernfey, and notwithUanding it has been
hewn that, the parties were ignorant of such an
ft, and that they were innocent in offending
he law, yet from the unfriendly report of the
ominiflioners of the custom's, it is apprehended
hey will be condemned. Other dniicuhies, it
i-tuid, save been ftatcd by the officers of the
ufloms, such as some of the American vessels
lot being navigated by two thirds Amencar
>orn fubjefts, and others, that the manifellol
beir cargoes has not been conformable to an afcj
if parliament. One (hip lay seized at Liver
>ool on account ot the former, and another ai
ireenock on account of the latter."
[.From a late French Paper.
The retainers to monarchical government tel
is that, " in order to prevent being governed by c
yrant there ought to be a king : That there is left
o be apprehended from a power eflabltjhed ant
'united by law, than from authority usurped by c
hies who acknowledges no other contioul than hi
)wn will and inclination." But have we any rea
son to fear the poflibi lity of an usurper ?—No—
I'he dillribution of the kingdom into depart
ments is amply fufEcrent to check all ambitiou;
dcligns of this r.ature ; and that which mishi
lave been called an imprudent confidence be
ore this uleful arrangement took place is now
lbfoltuely free from all danger upon that (core,
rhe extent of France, which is a cireumftanc c
avorable to republican government, does not
cave us room to apprehend that the mere inugi
)f royalty set up in the capital, oan ever beqomc
he tvrant of the nation.
Diftinftion of powers, founded not only upor
aw, but upon a real discrimination ot public
employments is another barrier against tyranny.
The military, the marine, the department ot fv
lance, legislation and courts of jutlice are all dif
:ributed amongst men,whofeeducation,aud habit
ire essentially different —rail thole powers muti
)e destroyed, corrupted, or inu(i even havt
rhanged their very natures, before any one pow
:r, diftinft from or included in thele, can ufpiit
tyranny.
The liberty of the press, the universal use' crl
;eading, and the mulvitude of public papers ant
KeUes are fufficientto preserve the nation frorr
my danger of this kind, lo every man thai
bas read with attention the hiftoiy of the ufur
pation of Cromwell in England, it is evident
[hat one lingle gazette, freely circulating-tin tha
at that time, would have effectually nr
relied the progress of tyranny- it is equally evi
dent that if the people of England had been u
the practice of reading other books than the hi
ble, this political and religious hypocrite wouk
have been umnatked in his outlet, and his Icheme;
rendered abortive. All popular tyrants hay
ever acted under a masque ; the liberty ol la
pre Is tears off this masque, and the moment tlr.
real is fceo, there is nothing more to tear
Let us not then create a real evil to avoid a
imaginary danger.
ExtraEl of a letter from London, Sept. 6.
The Englifti commerce is now arrived at a moi
enviable height, contrary to what might hav
been expe<sled from the falie direction the nation
al spirit has at all times been accustomed to re
ceive from government, ihe public spirit cf it
citizens has ever been the support of this country
and enabled it to surmount every ofoftacle anc
despise every calamity. It was that spirit which
supported them through the fatal American war
and which at this moment supports them undei
a load of taxes, at Icaft three times as great as th<
nation ought, in justice, to pay. Eut it is not fc
easy, as formerly, for an Englifli minister tc
controul the public opinion. Time has been
when the governing party had only tofet up j
phantom, and the people would fight. They an
now fei fible of their past errors, and it must bi
Tome diredfc, pointed, and positive provocatior
From France that will lead them into the fnart
aid by the court. Notwithstanding all our re
ources and induftrv, a new war must decided!)
'uiu us. The miniilry well know that the on))
ncans left them to destroy what little liberty re
mains in England is to prevent its eftabliftimem
n France, although they do not undertake
o avow their defi£,rt in open day.— In fa<ft, the)
lave not been able to fali upon -any means to ren
ter popular a quarrel with a nation that is de
ermined to mind its own business. The people
England look with anxiety for a government
-eallyfree, and are hot disposed to war again ft ;
lation, who have thrown off their shackles, mere
yto support the cause of despotism. •he fear o;
he people not agreeing to a war with France ha<
orced Mr. Pitt to change his plans, and purchaft
Burke's abilities to calumniate the French revolu
ion; but the flanders of this venal Have have b)
io means produced the effedt the minister had ir
riew. Tne high tone in which he has accuftom
:d himfeif to address foreign powers, will nc
onger do. It has failed with the Empress ol
; and he mull quit her. Intrigue is .hi;
ast resource in order to set the German princes
ipon France and let loose upon her a herd oi
hieves and plunderers, who he weakly believes
trill-be able to injure her : but this plan has been
iifcovered, and the vigilance of France is re
loubled."
Particulars relative to the Difturbttn:es ir
French Hifpaniola.
[Translated from the printed proceedings of the
General AfTembly of the lilar.d, received or
Monday last by the bjigHetlv, Capt.CJou.fer.
CAPE-FRANCOIS, Oft. $.
Subjlance of the injirutlionsfrom the General As
Jembly of the French part of Hifparacla, to then
Covin tJj'toners to the National AJJ p, nbly of France.
The Coinmiflioners being arrived in France,
ftiali immediately repair to the National Aflem
blv at Paris, from whence, after having conferred
with the commercial deputies from this capital,
t'aey shall write to the eighty-three department?
nnd to the different chambers of commerce, tc
prevail upon them by the most preiiing argu
ments, to concur with them in thedemands they
lhall make from the National AfTembly ; which
(li.ill be —rft, To fend forward without delay
the decrees relative to the colonies in the Weft-
Indies, which are not officially known in thofc
parts. 2d. They shall solicit the National Af
iembly to fend the mod prompt fuccojr to (he
relief, or the inhabitants of French Hifpaniola,
to taflilt in extinguiihmg the revolt of the blacks,
as well as to. afford the means of executing the
national decrees, anil re-ellabli filing order in the
colonies. 3d. .They are authoriled to demand
from the nation and commercial bodies of .France,
the sums necelfary for re-establishing the agri
culture of the Island, as well as a large supply
of piovifions, which are become absolutely ne
celfirv, by the depredations of the insurgents.
in addition to the above, the aftiftance of the
Mother Country is -requelted, to repair,
i much as poflible, the various -other losses the
I colony has sustained and to exert her power in:
I put ting an end to the ravages of the insurgents
! (ince there is no probability of any effeftua
! fpectly affiftan.ee from any other quarter.
I The President of the General AfTembly o 1
the Island, having given the colonial letter tc
the English Prime Minifies, a reading, has or
uered its insertion in the journal. The letter i:
as follows :
" Cape-Francois, Sept. 26, 1791.
"We fhallfor hear Jroublingy ou, Sir, with th
,nelancholy narrative of our misfortunes. By th
return of the Daphne and the Alert your Eticelltti
cy will receive a detail cf the r.icfl dfajlrcus events
St, Domingo is al this rnfiant a prey to the devaj
lotions of jire and being in a great me a
fure pver-rutL by the revolted Negro:s t must probably
in a very short time be con fleered the grave of its in
habitants, and covered with the ashes cf it* building
and plantations.
" From the beginning of theft attempts and out
rages we made it a point to ask ajlijlance from ou
neighbours. —The English alone have exerted thern
[dves in our favour, and fhand with us the fiant
means they ihniifelvcs artwafkrs of to yreferve thei
pojfejjiom from being expo fed to an evil which ;
like to become univer/al, by the r,:Uhads Certaiti ph
lantlirophiftshave fallen >. r ,u to pwpagati thei
opinions
41 The ficcour afforded us by the F.nglifh has, m
indted, proved infixficient to remedy our misfor
tunes, but their aaivity 9 good ivill> and gejicrcftjy
has \/ sratad conjidtrably to cur relief Alt ho'
fitnk in the alyfs of chfpair and ziretehedmfs, GraU
jsa fcr.tment which will Jliil be itppe » mcji in
rz '.ry Creouanheart: Be pltafed then, Sir, to receive
in J prejent to your King, our au^ioiole^gmnt cf
the we shall ever remain under to Evgl- j.d
w'lefe genernjity, a'-fir a tied from all narrovj pdicy
•±n~d private c&nf derations, hasfent a force to us
to snatch from the wdftingfames then mains of an
7lard, the immtnjity of tul'fe productions has !,i
---herto Lcjt France without a rival in the commerce
/ the Wjl-Indies." We are, &c.
The Members of the General AfTem
bly of Representatives ior the liland
of St. Domingo."
The Genera] AfTembly resolved on the 29th
if September, for the relief of such of the in
labitants as have had their plantations and
wildings burnt, lhat a commifllor.er be dilpatch
:d to the island cf Jamaica, there to negociate
i loan of 180, cool, fterhng, or 725,000 dollars,
>n condition that re-imburfement lhall be made
n four equal yearly payments, the fird to take
>lace 011 May firfl, J 794, either in dollats, arti
les of commerce, or drafts upon old France.
1 he rate of intered to be agreed upon by coin
nillioners deputed by the AfTembly, and the
oaners of the money in Jamaica.
A mot/on W3s made on the fame day in the
general AffembJy, to prelent a memorial to
.ord Effingham, Governor of Jamaica, requed
"g h'm, il) concurrence with the AfTembly, to
"nd to the aflifiance of this island some com
•inies of the Blue Mountain negroes, as the
< ft qualified troops to put an end to tUe re
eilion of the slaves in Hifpaniola.
FRANCE.
Augufl 2,5 —30, 1701.
Tranflaled from L'Argus Patriotk,
a French paper of ejlimation, printed at
Paris.^
The dilaffetted of every denomination, who
lave fled out of this kingdom into foreign coun
ties, are endeavouring to propagate an idea that
['"ranee is to all intents, ruined ; in particular,
hat the people of Paris are in such abject dit
refs as to be ir. want of the mod common n;-
effaries of life, and that every prudent man
las given up the revolution as a defperr.te at
empt. These reports, which perfeflly ccord
vith the wishes of tnod of the European ( ourts,
re carefully circulated, in order to damp the
pints of such nations as would be the moll
ikely to follow the example of Fiance in throv -
ng off the Shackles of defpotifin. It ma\ in
leed be a;H'"rted, in drift truth, that the p inci
lal bufine'fs of certain couits at this lime is to
ilify the National Assembly, and that p rt of
he French nation who have taken up arms to
lefend their liberty.
It is remarkable that the Parisians have goined
n solidity what they have lofl in frivolity. 0 The
pitit of the people increases daily, and i-i raom
if a contemptible fpecics of vanity, the French
ave assumed a noble pride of foul, and a more
ban Roman love of their country. A rcvolu
lon has, in fait, taken place in manners and
norals, as well as in government, and the
harafter of the Parisians, in particular, is entire
j changed. Talents and learning are encou
aged, and though the capital of France mav
icretofore have boafled a more brillant and gay
ppearance than at present, we can fafely fay
hat it never at any time contained so many
appy people.
Augufl 25,
The fcarcitv of money flill continues, and
everal flock-jobbers, that might be named, if
eceflary, have got into the pia£lice of exchartg
ng specie for national notes upon a ccrtain dif
ount on the notes. Nothing can be a flronger
iroof of the return of our citizens to good order,
han the tranquility in which these wretches
arry on their infamous traffic.
Notwithllanding the number of refugees from
r rance is very great, and a very great part of that
lumber completely ruined, as' well as liable to
rial for treason, fhoukfthey return > yet we may
enture to aferm that the greatefl part of them
re neither ruined, nor liable to a legal proccfs.
iven the traitors and parricides would inflanrly
eturn to their country were they alTnred that the
roubles were at an end, and that the new laws
lould be faithfully observed that have been
laded under the fanftion of the gicfent govern
nent.
Augud 30.
Among all the writers who have openly de
lared themselves for the fyflem of anarchy,
:alled republican government, in Fiance, there
ire but two whose opinions seem to have made
iny coriliderable number of proselytes. These
ire, Mr. Thomas Payne, and Monf. Condorcet.
The fird of these is a flranger ; >he other has
litherto supported the character of an honefl
nan, at the fame time he is a weak man, and
laving spent the bed pan of his life in writing
jantgyricS, "and wrangling about the (qtfaringof
he circle, he now pops out of his garret, and
n an jinllant preteijds to refeive a political
problem, which has puzzled the wifefl men of
ill ages.
It is computed that upwards of two hundred
roufand per lions have fled out of France, on ac
ount of the troubles, who have not only drawn
icir incomes out of circulation, but have
ranr.fc 1 ted their moveable property into foreign
ountiks. More than iwo hundred thousand
ithers having IoQ and forfeited their re
nain in the kingdom, in a mofl deplorable date
>f poverty.
Upwards of twenty thousand perfor.s have
his year celebrated the era of the Frcnch Revo
ution in London alone. It mud be remcinber
:d (hat lad .ye-dr the nnrober did not exe ed
leyen hundred. At Dublin also the apned
Volunteers have joyfully commemorated this
great event ; and there has riot been a fiugle
town or city in England, of confequcnccj but
what has honored the day thai gave birth to the
liberties oMranee.Five regiments ofHorfeare flationed in t-he
neighborhood ot London. Mr. Pitt has caught
the anti-federal fever, and is afraid of its be
coming inflammatory— if he has recourse to
blccdiii ', his difeife will, doubtless, prove mor
tal.
Extrali of a later from London, dated Sept. 6.
" Several of the Birmingham rioters are un
der sentence of death, though it is thought few
*or none will becxecuted. Poor Doctor Pricft
ley'slofs is irreparable. Thislawlels misguided
crew waged war, not only against the Doctor,
but against ilk* arts and sciences, morality, reli
gion, and polite literature. His collection of
books was one of the bed in Europe, and con
tained not a few of which another copy does not
exist in the world. The philosopher teems sen
sibly atfecicd at the loss, but behaves tolerably
well under his misfortune. An old triend hav
ing paid him a visit some days alter the not, to
condole with hini, and, if poflibic, admimOcr
consolation ; the Doctor coolly observed—" I
Ihould have read my hooks to little purpose il
they had not taught me to bear the loss olthem
with indifference."
The following is tranjlzted,from th: original
decree of the National Assembly oj Franct
for abolijhing the Droit d Aubaine.
Augufl b, 1790.
Mr. Barrere, in the name of the Com
mittee of Domains, onthc motion of Mr
MarfanneFonjulianne ; You huvecharg
ed your committee of domains to ojjt 1
their opinion on the fuppreflion of thi
Droit d'Aubaine. The droit (duty
originated at that period when there ex
ifted no intercourle between nations
it belonged to the king, the treasury
the nation, who succeeded to the pro
pertyofthe foreigner, not naturalized
on the event of his death, or of the na
turalized foreigner who died intestate
and of the French citizen, who on leav
ing France, had abandoned his country
Conlidering this duty in its relation tc
the constitution and present laws, it:
fate fcems to be already determined
According to the report of the trealury
the sums anting from this duty are no
great, scarcely amounting to forty thou
lund livres. The committee has enjoin
ed it upon me to offer the followins
draft of a decree for your approbation.
" The National Assembly, having at
tended to the report of the committee o
Domains, and considering that th
Droit de Aubaine is contrary to those fra
ternal principles of affection, whicl
ought to unite all men, be their coun
try or government what it may; conii
ucring further, that this law was efta
blifhedin the most barbarous ages, the'
are of opinion it ought to be abolifhei
in every country whose constitution i
founded upon the rights of men and ci
tizenfhip, and that France, being nov
free, ought to open her bosom to th
whole woi Id, ana invite them to enjo'
under -her mild and benevolent govern
ment, the lacred and inalienable right
of mankind—lt is decreed therefore a
follows :
l; That the Droit de Aubaine and th
right of draw-backs upon property fhal
be forever abolished: and, secondly, ths
all procedures, suits, and enquiries
which maybe founded upon thole right:
or either of them, are forever extin
guifhed and of no effect.
The draft of this decree was thei
adopted unanimously and without de
bate.
Price oj Stocks at New-York.
Bank Stock from 153 to 156
Six per cents - 22/2 1-2
Genuine copy of the introduction to a toaf
proposed by Dr. Price, on IVednefday t/
1 4th of July, at the feajl
thefrft Anniversary of the Revolution 1
France.
Gentlemen,
THE fubjeftof the toast I am goin:
to propose to you, appears to me ver
impoi.ant. In consequence of five war;
in which we have been involved linc<
the Revolution in 1688, the kingdom i
now bending under a heavy load o
debts and incumbrances, which rende
it incapable of meeting another wa
without the utmost danger. For cer
tainly there is a limit, beyond which i
we go in adding to our debts ruin rnufl
follow ; and one more war may bring u:
to that limit.
A long period of peace, therefore
to give us time for the redemption oi
our debts, is necessary to our lecurity,
and perhaps, even to our existence.
In France there is a dilpofition to unite
itfelf to us, by an alliance for maintain
ng and perpetuating peace. Such ai
il fiance would be an union between thi
wo fir ft kingdoms in the world, foi
;he noblest purpose. It would be ar
L-lfe& worthy of that union ofpihlofo
phy to politics, which diftinguiflies th<
present cera of the world. It migh
lave Britain. It would bless the world
md complete the hopes of all the friend
>f human liberty and happiness. 1 cat
ay, from very relpeftable authority
:hat there has been a delign formed ii
the National Afl'embly of France, t<
make a proposal of luch an alliance tc
this country.
£i 0 heavenly philanthropies ! well di
'■ you deserve the admiration not only o
'your own country, bat of all countries
■ You have already determinect to renounce
"for ever, all views of conquefl, and all of
; fenfive wars. Tins is an inflance o
1 wisdom and attention to human rvju
• which has no example. But you will d
' more. You will invite Great-Britain t
' join you in this determination, and to en
' ter into a compatt with you for promotin,
: peace on earth and good will amon;
' men."
Gentlemen,
Such are the fruits of that gloriou
evolution which we arc this day cele
nating, Itpromifes a new and bette
irder in human affairs. The passion
A Kings and their Ministers have toi
jften and too long involved nations i)
he calamities of war. But now (thank
othe National APfembly of France) th
ixe is laid to the root of this caul'e o
uiman misery ; and the intrigues o
:ourts are likely to lole their power o
imbroiling the world.
In this kingdom we have been ufei
0 speak of the people of France as ou
natural enemies ; and, however absurd
is well as ungenerous and wicked fuci
anguage was, it admitted of some ex
:ufe while they confided only of a mo
larch andhis slaves. But now, with
piritthat astonishes mankind, and thj
nakes tyrants tremble, they havebrok
heir yoke, they have aflerted thei
rights, and made themselves as free a
mrfelves. In doing this, we have bee:
in example to them. They are no\
jecome an example to us ; and we hav
rcafon to expect, that they will fooi
:rown their glorious work by callin
ipon us to meet them (not as formerly, i
he fields of blood, at the command o
1 despot) but on the lacred ground o
iberty, to embrace us as brethren, t<
exchange vows with us of eternal ami
:y, and to fettle the terms of a confcde
ration for extending the blelfings o
peace and liberty through the world
Thus united, the two kingdoms will b
omnipotent. They will soon draw inti
heir confederation Ho li. a n n, and othe
rountrics on this lide the globe, am
:he United States of America on tlv
ither ; and, when alarms of war come.'
:hey will be able to lay to contendin:
rations, peace, and there will b.
peace.
I have therefore thought, that i
■vould be worthy of this reipectabl
ompany on this moil animating anc
oyous occasion, to express its wilhe
jf success to the proposal I have men
ioned, by drinking the following toast
An alliance between FRANCE an<
SREAT-BRITAIN, for perpetuatin:
icace, and making the world happy.
GALLIPOLIS.
The settlers of Gallipolis are in greet
'topes of succeeding in making wine,—not o
■xotic grapes, but by cultivating the wild A
merican grape. A singular circumftanc
vave rife to thtfe hopes. In the Ohio, im
mediately opposite to Gallipolis, is a sand
[/land remarkable for the goodness oj the wiL
Jrape, produced on it. They are juicy, th
fhin.rn.uch thinner and floneJmaller than th
grapes of the fame kind in the other parts o
the country. This difference is attributed (
the effects of the ice in winter, which, zoh:n
the river rises, sweeps over the island ani
trims the vines. This coarse dressing, tho
it happens in an unfavorable fcafon of th,
year, together with the exposed situation c
the island to the direct rays of the fun, i.
conceived to be the re of on of the fuperioritj
°t the grapes in this fmallfpot. Very pa
latabk wine has already been made of thef
grapes, and when the hint is improved upon,
and a regular course of culturebefiowed upoi,
our native vine (which is the determinatioi,
of our settlers to attempt J Scioto wine, whi
knows, may perhaps, one day supplant tht
Madeira on our tables.
-J
lines
?rcaponed by 'he putting a Dog on Jhore a
the IJland of Sapola, for theft. 1788.
SINCE nature taught you, Tray, to be a thie
blame have you for working at your trade
What if you flole a handsome round of beef
rheft, in your code of laws, no crime was made
The ten commandments you have never rea;
-lor did it ever enter in your head ;
But art and nature, careful to conceal,
DifcloPd not even the eighth-Thcujhalt notjleat
Then to the green wood, Caitiff, hide away
['here take your chance to live—for trutl
must fay
We have no right, for theft, to hang up Troy
1 W
BOSTON, October 25.
Yesterday failed from this port, with <
: :iir zoind, the copper-bottomed ship Marga
'it, James Magee, F.fq. commander, on <
joyagc to the north-weft coafl of America
It is the intention of this enterprifng navi
•Tutor to proceed much farther north, tha,
■my of his predecessors have ever attempted
The ship is amply Jurnifhed with every ar
ticle necejfary for so long and dangerous ,
voyage, and a literary gentleman, Air
liowel, of Boflon, has taken passage 0.
board, with a view to make such ob/erva
tions on the various ceafls and seas the
Ihall visit, as will tend to throw light 0.
the geography of America.
At the Boston Duck Manufa&ury
can be produced duck equal, if not fu
perior, to any imported, and the dc
mands for it arc greater than can readi
ly be complied with.
ALBANY, 0a.24.
Saturday lafl Cornelius Hogeboom, Efr.
fherijf of the county of Columbia, accompa
nied by two other gentlemen, went to tlx
(ale offome property, legally advertised, 0
Nobletown, and not finding his deputy
whom he had expected, he adjourned the fa<
to a future day, and having mounted A,
horse on his return, had not proceeded fft
yards from the hoitfe, when a number t
armed men flarted up from among the buff,
es, and, at the second discharge of the,
mujkets, the fkerifffell a victim to the mea
revenge of a cowardly set of affaffms.
WINCHESTER, Oaober 22.
A pcrfon arrived here on
lad from Kentucky, who informs, tha
he started from the Crab-Orchards ii
company with several other persons
that, as they paired through she wilder
ness, they dilcovered two human bo
dies, which had been killed and scalp
cd by some Indians; and that he an!
his companions ltopped and buriei
them.
Another party, who recently camc ii
through the wilderncls, were attackci
by a {mall number of Indians ; but the
all escaped, saving one women, who fc!
into the hands of the lavages. She
however, was fortunate enough to lib
crate herfelf afterwards, in the follow
ing manner.—The night after she wa
taken, the Indians made a large fire
and placcd her between themselves am
it ; they then fell asleep, and, apparent
ly, the woman did the fame; but. watch
ingher opportunity, she stole away fron
them unpcrceived, and wandered in th
woods until she came tq a run of watei
whole course she kept for a confiden:
ble number of miles, and at length ar
rived fafe in a settlement of white in
habitants.
This day is Published,
By CHILDS and SWAINE,
In one Volume Octavo ;
[Price On? Dollar and a half, the /"mail Edition
and One Dollar and three quarters the larg;-.j
THE
LAWS of the United States.
Collated witll, and corrected by the original Roll
in the Otfice of the Secierarv of State.
With a copious INDEX ; or
A complete DIGEST of the LAWS
(Making 56 pages :)
Executed by an eminent Law Charaftcr.
To obtain this ufetul and necefl'arv Part of thi
Work compi. re, has .etarded the Publication.
"This Volume (cn-priz.es the Ads cf the Thie,
SeJjions of the fir ft Covgrf, . th , ledfra
Ccrjhtumn, and the Treuurs between the Vnitea
States and Foreign Nations-.Together with an dp
pend,x, containing the Decla-ation of Injepend
ence, and fundrj Ordinances and Revives c • Cm
grejs under the Confederation.
Sold hy Childs and Swaint, No 2-q Hi,-1,
fireet, Tho,r.as Qobfon, Jcfiph
Robert Campbell, I'hiUde'pkia.
OElober 25.
TO THE PUBLIC,
THE Editor of the National Gazette
having found his proposals for ef
ablifhing a paperof that kind attended
,vith all the iuccefs he could reasonably
;xpeft, considering the short time that
ias elapsed since his firft acqvfeinting
he public with his design, takes the
jpportunity briefly to remind his lub
cribers, and others, of the plan upon
.vhich he originally intended, and still
jropofes to proceed.
The National Gazette shall be pub
ifhed "tin the Monday and Tkurfday
nornings of every week, in the city of
Philadelphia, and lent to the more dif
:ant fubferibers by the most ready and
egular modes of conveyance. Such
aerfons, relident in the city of Phila
lelphia, as incline to become fublcri
jers, shall be supplied early on the
nornings of publication, at their own
louses. The price will be three
dollars a year ; the firft half yearly
jayment to be made in three months
rom the time of fubfcribmg, and fu
ure payments every fix months.
The paper shall contain, among other
nterefting particulars, the most im
jortant foreign intelligence, collected
lot only from the British, French, and
Dutch newspapers (a constant and
junftual fupplv of which has been
:ngaged) but also from original com
nunications, letters, and other papers
:o which the Editor may have an op
portunity of recurring for the most au
thentic information relative to the af
fairs of Europe.
The department for domestic news
ivill be rendered as complete and fa
isfactory as possible, by inserting a
udicious detail of such occurrences as
hall appear worthy the notice of the
sublic.
The most refpeftful attention shall
je paid to all decent produttions of
jntertainment in prose or verse that
nay be sent for insertion, as well js to
such political essays as have a tendency
;o promote the general interests of the
Union. There will also be inserted
(luring the fellions of Co'ngrefs, a brief
History of the Debates and Proceedings
of the Supreme Legislature of the Uni
ted States, executed, it is hoped, in
such a manner as to answer the expec
tations and gratify the curiosity of eve
ry reader.
Persons at a distance who may sub
scribe for fifteen papers, and will be
come responsible for the fubfeription
money, lhall receive with the packet
a sixteenth, gratis.
Subscriptions are received at the Office,
No. 239, High-flreet ; also at therejpeilivt
Bookjlores of Mr. Francis Bailey,
and Mr. Thomas Dobson.
TO BE SOLD, BY
JOHN CARE Y,
No. iiz, Union-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
books,
vVhich may be seen tvery day, until 50* clock p.m.
Among them are the following :
Folio. Homer, Xenophon, Plato, Plutarch,
Eufebius, Sozomen, Theodoret, Virgil, Horace,
Livy, Tacitus, Patercuius, Pliny, Concordan*
tia Lat. Concord antia Gr. Thesaurus Ciceronis,
Biblia Junii & Tremellii, Bible de Martin,
Wells's Maps, Scapula; — Phavorini—Martinii—-
Boftmanni Lexica, Vofiii Etymologicon, AaU
quit. Ecclel. Britannicae, &c.
Sluano. Pindar, Cyropsedia, Bently's Ho
race, Terence and Pl-.adrus, Ovid, Juvenal,
Mamlius, Ciceronis op. om. Cafar, Suetonius,
Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voflii Ars
Cram. Cluverii Geographia, Jullinian Code, &c.
oaa-va ;t infra. Homer, Anacreon, Arifto
rh.,nes, Longinus, Theophraftus, Helind,
m.nores Gr. Ifocrates, Phalaris, various edition
"/Horace, Vugi], Terence, and Ovid, Tibuilu s ,
Fiautus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Vat. Flac
cus, Aufonius, Buchanan, Salluft, Curtius,
Flor Ul| j Ult , n> v ,|. Maximu?) Ccl| . uS)
H 0. August. Scriptures, Englijb and French.
Tianjlattcns ot ( ome of t|)e ciafiics, a „ t at
'"ty of Greek and Latin Grammars. &c. &c.
K?"Catalogue, may be had of MeflVs. Rice J:
-0. Bookleilers,- Market-flre -t, or of
nA JOHN CAREY.
Oct. 31.
PRINTED BY
GUILDS and S W A I N E
lT THE,R ""ICE, NO. 239, HI Oil -STRUT,
near sixth-street,
-Philadelphia.