Vol. I.
AVTHE N T I C.
(N'ever before piinted.)
COPIES or the LAWS
Palled id the
TERRITORY of the UNITED STATES,
North-weft of the River Oh 10,
By the Governor and Jufticcs thereof
Agreeably to the Ordinance of Congress of Jul;
13, 17* , and made out from the Original Re
cords tn the Office of the Secretary for the fair
Territory.
11.
' A LAW for tfl abl't/hingG eneral Courts of Qu*r.
ter Sessions of the Peace ( ard therein of th
Putiftrt of flnge JujActi) and for eftabh/hin;
County Courts of Common Pl*as 5 (an<
tbert'm of the poivcr of ftnglt Judges to hear an,
determine uponJtnall debts andcontrails j) and alj
a for ejiabljhing the Ojjie't of Sheriff
aid for the appointment of Si> f I! r > k s.
PASSED AUGUST 17 8
[Continued frdrcr our last.]
County Courts of Common Pleas.
A NUMBER of suitable persons no
exceeding five nor lcfs than three fhal
be appointed in each county, and com
iniflioned by the Governor under th<
seal of the Territory to hold and keep ;
Court of Record, to be styled the coun
ty court of common pleas ; which court:
{hall be holden at two fixed periods ir
every year, and in each county refpedt
ively, at the places where the genera
courts of quarter feflions of the peaci
shall be kept.
That for the county of Wafhingtoi
shall be holden upon the. third Tuelday
of March, and firft Tuesdays of Scptem
ber.
The judges so appointed and Com
iniflioned, or a majority cf them fhal
hold pleas of allizes, fcire facias,, repl.e
vins, and hear and determine all lnannei
of picas, aflions, suits and causes of ;
civil nature, real, personal and mixec
according to the constitution and law:
of the territory.
The said court (hall, and are hereby
empowered to grant under their seal ant
signed by the clerk, replevins, writs o
partition, writs of view, and all othe
writs and process upon picas and action
cognizable therein as the cafe may re
quire.
The court fliall and may iflue fubpnc
nas under their seal, and signed by thei
clerk for the lame purposes, in the man
ner and under fitnitar penalties, as th<
courts of general quarter feflions of th<
peace are empowered to iflue the fame
And for the more speedy recovery o
small debts and demands contraftet
within the Territory, it shall and ma;,
be lawful for one or more of the Judge:
of the court of common pleas in theii
refpe&ive counties to hear and deter
mine all debts and demands contradfec
as aforefaid whether upon bond, bill
note, book account or aflumpfit in fat
cr law, wherein the sum demanded fhal
not exceed five dollars. And iucf
Judge or Judges shall iflue exccutior
nnder his or their hands and seals di
retted to the Sheriff or other proper of
ficer for executing the judgment fc
given, returnable in thirty days hotr
the tefl thereof.
SHERIFFS.
There shall be appointed and commit
fioned by the Governor in each count)
of the Territory a fheriff who shall tak<
the oaths of allegiance to the Unitec
States, and of office, and fliall give bone
with two fufficient sureties in the penal
sum of four tboufand dollars ior the
faithful discharge of the duties of hi:
office.
The duties of each Sheriff shall be, tc
keep the peace, by causing all offender;
against law, in his view, to enter intc
recognizances, with sureties for keep
ing the peace, and appearing at the next
general quarter feflions in the lame
county, and to commit in cafe of refu
fal; and which recognizances ft all by
THURSDAY, D ECEMBER 22, 179 I•
the said Sheriff be returned and certified
before the said quarter sessions. It fhal!
ilfo be his duty to quell and fuppref"
ill affrays, routs, riots and infurrefti
)ns ; and for which end, he (hall and is
hereby empowered to call to his aid.
:he power of the county. He shall pur
lue apprehend and commit to gaol al
felons and Traitors; he shall execute
ill warrants, writs and other proccf
which by law shall appertain to the du
:ies of his office, and Which shall be di
rested to h:m by legal authority.
He shall duly attend upon all court
of record at their refpeftive termsor fef
fions in his county.
111.
A Law cjlabiifiing a Court of Probate, paj
fed Augajl 30, 1788.
r ~T , here shall be appointed one Judg<
X of probate in each county whoi<
duty it shall be to take the proof of lal
wills and testaments ; and to grant let
crs testamentary and letters of admini
Flration, and to do and perform ever)
natter and thing that doth or by law
nay appertain to the probate office, ex
:epting the rendering definitive fentenci
ind final decrees.
The Judge shall hold four sessions ii
:ach and every year, and may adjourr
rotntime totiitie, ofiappoint a fpecral lei
ions, and at such place in the county as h<
nay deem expedient, whenever the cir
:umffances of the people may require it
l'hc sessions for the county of Waffling
on shall be holden at the city of Man
:;ta upon the firft Monday ot January
April, Augull and Octobcr annually. Ir
ill cases wherein it fhaii be necefiary U
render a definitive sentence, or to rende
-1 final decrec, and upon a point contefh
kL the J udgejhaU call to lijs.jiiail.ujcc
wo of the Justices of the court of com
non pleas of the fame county ; who, to
Tether with the Judge shall conffitut;
he court of probate; a majority of whorr
hall have power to render final fenten
:es anu decrees in ail matters cogniza
ffc before said court, provided howeve:
hat from every definitive sentence ant
rom every final decrec, rendered by thi
:ourt there may be an appeal to the gen
;ral court of the territory, the appellani
giving bond with two fufficient furetic:
o prosecute Fiis appeal with cffefcl
which appeal fhali be entered upon thi
i'econd day of term of the court appeal
:d to and next holden for the county ii
which the appeal, was taken.
The [udge previously to his entering
upon the duties of his office shall b<
['worn before the Governor to a true ant
faithful dilcharg'e thereof.
The Judge shall record last wills anc
tcftaments, and make entries of the gran
ling of letters teflamentarv, and letter:
of administration, he shall receive, pu
an file, and carefully prel'erve all bonds
inventories, accounts and document
necessary to be perpetuated in his office
All bonds that by this law are, or b)
law shall be directed to be given in the
court of probate, or probate office, fhal
be made to the Judge, and ff.ijl be ir
truss to and for the ufc of all perfoti;
concerned or having interest therein
and the benefit thereof shall be cxten
ded from time to time, to and for tin
relief of the injured.
The Judge ihall deliver a certified co
py of any bond taken by him as afore
laid to any person interested, and re
quelling the fame, and he shall also pro
ciijce the original bond in court upor.
any trial that shall be had for the breach
of the conditions thereof whenever re
quired by luch court and upon rcfufal
or delay herein the Judge shall forfeit
and pay to the injured treble damages,
And there shall be appointed a clerk
of said court of probates who shall be
sworn to a faithful discharge of the du
ties of his office, before he enters intc
the execution thereof; and the clerk
fhal! record all leniences and" decrees of
By PHILIP FREN FA U.
the court of probate, and make entries
and records of all matters proper to be
entered and recorded in his office. ,
[ To be continued:]
. ions from French Papers.']
Napi.es, August, 26.
The French AmbafTador at this court
is upon the point of his departure. A
few days ago he received a circular let
ter from M. Montmorin, tending to juf
tifv to the court of Naples the conduct
of the National Assembly toward the
King of Ffance.- This letter was com
municated'to M. Acton, who expressed
his pointed di(approbation of its con
tents, and wiflied M. Montmorin to be
informed that " the whole French Na
tion was held in execration in the two
Kingdoms of Naples and Sicily both on
account of their behaviour toward a
lovereign of the family of the Bourbons,
and their unremitted endeavours, by
means of emUfaries and infairvous wri
tings, to promote revolt and sedition in
other Kingdoms and flatcs."—M. Ac
ton added, that the French ConfuTs Se
cretary at Palermo had been convi&ed
Of making treasonable proportions to
the citizens of that place; and that in
qonfequencc tl\ereof, he had given or
ders to irnprifon and punish him in 2
manner the most exemplary.
E ruff els, $ept. 20. The French Emi
grants here were struck with astonish
ment when they heard the news of the
King's acceptance of the constitution
The letters, however, of Monsieur, anc
M. d Artois to the King of France then
brother, have a little revived theii
drooping spirits. Thcfe letters are en
dori'ed by Leopold 2d. the King o
and thejprinces of the family o
We ncJviTagaih hear ofnorhirn
but vengeance, malfacres and counte:
revolutions.—lf the .King acts the par
lie ought to do, he will no doub„t writi
to them to renounce their odious pro
je&sand to quit a strange country, when
want of bulinefs, debts anddefpair alTai
them on every fide.
A project is let on foot in Brabant
which will doubtless meet with mani
opponents ; to annihilate that hereditarj
representation, which has for a lons
time saddled us with lots and fanatic
for governors ; and to divide the pro
vince into counties, each of which Uial
chOose its own representatives : The
laws to originate with the Princc, whicl
having been agreed to by the ftatesi
{hall be acknowledged by ti;e fover
eign council of Brabant.
French Colonies in the Uejl-Indies.
The colonies considered in themlelves
have a feparatcintereftand government
Their relation to the parent countr)
is the foundation of their relative gov
ernment. Laws refpeSing their fepar
ate concerns ought to be made by them
fclvcs ; tliofe of their national concerns
by the nation. This is the Engliih mode
of governing their colonies. Internal
lVj-they are governed by colonial alfem
blies, externally by the laws of parlia
ment. It appears to us, in France, thai
the power of the King of England o;
naming persons to the polts of govern
ment in the Weft-Indies, and thereb",
having an upper house at his command,
is the most efle&ual means of retaining
the colonies under his power. But the
prerogative of the King of France in
this refpeft is not so great as that of the
King of England. The interior admin
istration of the government of the colo
nies is wholly given up to themlelves,
and consequently the officers of their
government are appointed from among
theinfelves. Our Legillature by having
no actual power over the colonies pof
felfes no longer the means of retaining
them. Our legislative supremacy over
them is only conditional, that is, as long
as we make laws to suit them so lon*
will they obey us—colonial goi-ernment
Numb. 16.
is mqrslv artificial. 11 dees not exifl: in
nature, and therefore can only be sup
ported bv opinion. Prejudice and opi
nion only secures the obedience of the
Mulattoes in St. Domingo, and not phy
sical means. If the prejudice of opinion
be done away, the colonies are loft to us
forever. It is, indeed, an oppreflive
kindof government, but it has added ma
ny millions to the population of 1' ranee.
It is even a barbarous mode of govern
ment. but violent or hasty meaiurcs to
diffblve it would be attended with con
lequences Hill more barbarous. F0 fe
tain our colonies, we mufl give them
iiTuranee that we will never interfere
in their internal Legifiation, and re
solve not lo do any thing to abate the
understanding that has hitherto
[übiifred between thdm andus.
Sketch of d fyjtkm of colonial g—'.rninen!,
pr-cfenled to the national hjjemtty by M-.
Bar nave, Sept. 24.
Article }. The national afTembly fiiaU
:iave the exclulive right of making laws
for !he colonies, with the fanftion ol
he King, as far as refpe&s their external
jovernnicnt. That is to fay ; the aflem
}ly shall make laws to regulate the com
mercial connexions of the colonies with
the mother country, and to support the
fame in providing for the fccurity of the
trjtde by having the decilive right of
pumfhing all infringements theieupon ,
also, to guarantee the execution of the
engagements.betwixt themerchants and
the inhabitants of the colonies ; and se
condly, the National AfTembly is to
enact such laws as may be thought ne
ceflary to the defence of the colonies .
l'uch as-relate to the military ; the dec
laration of war, the administration of
general government, and the marine.
° Article 2. The coloniahiffemblies (liall
have the right to petition and remon
firale oh all those fubjefcU :WR Hicfe
shall only be considered as simple petiti
ons, and not provihonary regulations
excepting oniv upofi extraordinary an*i
temporary occasions relative to the im
portation of provisions, and other lup
plies, when laws enacted by the colonial
affembljes and approved by the governor
(hall be allowed to operate as the di&ates
of necessity.
Article 3. Such laws as relate to the
situation of persons not a£tuallv iree,
and the political condition of Mulattoes
and free Negroes, as well as the regula
tions for the execution of those laws,
shall be made by the colonial alTemblies,
and fliall be executed provisionally,
with the fanftion of the governors-os
the colonics, to be approved by the
King, without any previous decree op
erating as an obllacle to the full excr
cife of the right conferred by theprefent
article upon the colonial aflemblies.
Article 4. In regard to the formalities
Df the execution of such laws as relate to
he internal government of the colonies,
and which have no relation to the con
dition of the persons designated in the
oreepding article ; they fliall be detcr
'ninedby thefupr'eme legislature, as well
is other matters relative to the organi
sation of the colonies, so soon as the co
onial aflemblies shall be properly au
horized to explain upon their particu
ar constitution.
Copy of a letter from Rome, Sept. 24.
The holy father has of late been very
11. Bleeding, purging, and abstinence
: rom the duties of his high office have
it length, however, set him upon his
egs again. His physicians attribute his
complaint to the vexations he has re
:ently experienced on account of the in
terests of religion in France. He is,
no doubt, chagrined that his menaces
cannot be executed, as he expe&ed.
Early in September his spiritual thun
derbolts were to have been discharged
upon the reformed clergy of France
and upon the constitution ; the Nation
al AfTembly were to be by that time ex
communicated and the whose Kingdomdeclared TcTiifrnatic.—Thefe days of
wrath are, however, poflponed ; and no
longer ago than yeflerday his holiness
declared in full council, that "he meant
to pursue a fyflem of moderation, in re
gard to the affairs of France, as well as
patience and christian charity and
that he " would not proceed to the moll
rigorous mothods of executing his ven
geance till all the milder means of per
luafion had failed."—This was as much
as to fay that his anti-revolutional pro
je£ls relpe£ling France are deferred to a
future day. It has been remarked, that
the thunders of the Vatican never roar,
unless there is a certainty of their being
re-echoed and fupportedby the canons
of the iccular powers.
PHILADELPHIA.
C O NGR ESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, December 19.
THE several petitions of John Cur
ley, Eliphalet Downer, William John
lion, William M'Coy, Barnabas Mur
phy, George P. Ransom, Samuel Wall.
James Wilson and Thomas Williams,
for compeniation for services rendcrcc
&c. were read and referred to the Se
cretary at War ; as was also the pctitiof
of Thaddeus Williams for relief in con
sideration of a wound received.
The petition of Richard Lloyd foi
services as late agent to General Hazen's
regiment, was referred to a committee
of three ; and the petition of Lugwig
Kuhn, for the fettlemerit of an account,
was referred to the Secretary of the
Treasury.
The House then proceeded to consid
er the melTage lent from the Senate or
Thursday last, notifying that they infill
ed to their amendment to the Represen
tation Bill.—The said amendment beinj
read,
Amotion was made by Mr. Benfon
that the House recede from their difa
greement to the amendment ; it paffee
in the negative.
Yeas.—Fisher Ames, Egbert Benfon
Elias Boudinot, Shearjaffiub Bourne
Benjamin Bourne, Abraham Clarke
Jonathan Dayton, Thomas Fitzfimons
Nicholas Gilman, Benjamin Goodhue
james Gordon, Andrew Gregg, Thoma:
Hartley, JamesHillhoufe, Israel Jacobs
John W. Kittera, Amafa Learned, Sa
muel Livermore, Nathaniel Niles, The
■ odoreSedgwick, Jeremiah Smith, Ifrae
Smith, Jonathan Sturges, Peter Sylvef
ter, George Thatcher, Jeremiah Wads
worth, and Artemas Ward.—Yeas 27.
Nays.—John Baptill Alhe, Abraharr
Baldwin, Robert Barnwell, John Brown
William Findley, Elbridge Gerry, Wil
liam B. Giles, Samuel Griffin, Williarr
Barry Grove, Daniel Huger, Philip
Key. John Laurance, Richard Blanc
Lee, Nathaniel Macon, James Madison.
Andrew Moore, Frederick Auguftui
Muhlenberg, William Vans Murray.
John Page, Jofiah Parker,-Cornelius C.
Schoonmaker, Joshua Seney, William
Smith, John Steele, Samuel Sterrett
Thomas Sumpter, Thomas Tredwell.
Thomas Tuder Tucker, Abraham Ve
nable, Anthony Wayne, Alexandei
White, Hugh Williamfon, and Francis
Willis. —Nays 33.
A motion was then made, that the
House adhere to their disagreement ; il
was resolved in the affirmative.
Yeas.—John Baptill Afhe, Abraham
Baldwin, Robert Barnwell, John Brown
William Findley, Elbridge Gerry, Wil
liam B. Giles, Sainuel Griffin. Williarr
Barry Grove, Daniel Huger, Philip Key,
John Laurance, R.ichard Bland Lee
Nathaniel Macon, James Madison, An
drew Moore, Frederick Augustus Muh
lenberg, William Vans Murray, John
Page, Jofiah Parker. Cornelius C
Schoonmaker, Joshua Seney, William
Smith, Samuel Sterrett, Thomas Sump
ter, Thomas Tredwell, Thomas Tudei
Tucker, Abraham Venable, Anthony
Wayne, Alexander White, Hugh Willi
amfon, and Francis Willis.—Yeas 32.
Nays—Fisher Ames, Egbert Benfon,
Elias Boudinot, Shearjalhub Bourne
Benjamin Bourne, Abraham Clarke
Jonathan Dayton, Thomas Fitzfimons,
Nicholas Gilman, Benjamin Goodhue.
Tames Gordon, Andrew Gregg, Thoma:
Hartley, James Hillhoufe, Ilrael Jacobs.
John W. Kittera, Amafa Learned, Sa
muel Livermore, Nathaniel Niles, The
odore Sedgwick, Jeremiah Smith, Israel
Smith, Jonathan Sturgcs, Peter Sylvef
:er, George Thatcher, Jeremiah Wadt
worthand Artemas Ward.—Nays 27.
A message from the Senate informing
that they have pafled the Appropriation
Bill with sundry amendments, to which
thev desire the concurrence of the
House.
Tuesday, December 20.
A message from the President, was de
livered by Mr. Secretary Lear, who laic
before the House a copy of a letter from
the governor of the slate of Pennfylva
ilia, accompanied with sundry docu
ments relative to a contrast for the pur
chafe of a tract of land bordering or
lake Erie, together with a report of the
Secretary of State, which is as follows
The Secretary of State, to whom was
refeired, by the President of the Unite.c
States, a letter from the Governor ol
Pennsylvania, with the documents there
in mentioned, on the fubjecl of certain
lands on lake Erie, having had the fame
ander confederation, thereupon reports
That Congress, by their resolution ol
June 6, 1788, directed the Geographer
general of the United States, to afcer
ain the quantity of land belonging tc
:he United States between Pennsylvania
ind lake Erie, and authorize a sale
:hereof.
That a sale was" accordingly made tc
the commonwealth of Pennsylvania. |
That Congress, by their Resolution of
September 4, 1788, relinquished to the
aid Commonwealth all their right to the
government and jurildiftion of the faic
raft ol land ; but the right of foil was
lot transferred by the resolution.
That a futvey of the (aid tradl has
jeen since made, and the amount of the
surchafc money been fettled betweer
:he Comptrollers of the United State;
md of the said Commonwealth; and thai
the Governor of Pennsylvania declare:
n the laid letter to the President of the
United States, that he is ready to close
he tranfaftion in behalf of the said Com
-nonwealth.
That there is no person at present au
horized by law, to convey to the faic
Commonwealth the right of foil in the
"aid tract of land.
And the Secretary of State is therefore
}f opinion, that the said letter and docu
nents should be laid before the Legilla
ure of the United States, to make fuel
jrovilion by law, for conveying th<
aid right of foil as they in their wifdon
hall think fit.
TH. JEFFERSON.
Dec. 19, 1791,
The above papers and report were re
erred to a feleft committee, with in
Iruftions to prepare a bill making pro
/ifion for carrying the said contrast in
o effect.
A inefTage from the Senate, was de
ivered by Mr. Secretary Otis, inform
ng that they " adhered." to their sirs
imendment to the Representation Bill
The bill is, of course,
The House having confidereel th<
tmendments, propofedby Senate, to the
Appropriation Bill, and concurred ir
hem all,
Relolved itfclf into a committeeof the
vhole (Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair
ind proceeded to the further confidera
ion of the Poll-Office Bill.
After some debate on the fubjeft ol
franking letters the committee rose, and
eported progress. Adjourned.
W EDNESDAY, Dec. 21.
Sundry petitions were read for com
aenfations, &c. and referred to thi
Secretary of Treasury and Secretary
as War.
Mr. Madison from the committei
ippointed, reported a -bill refpefting ;
contrast between the United States ane
Pennsylvania.
The house went into committee or
the poll-office bill, and made furthe;
progress therein. Adjourned.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
M 0 N E Y.
Observations written poflerior to th
circular Address ofCouGßZssinSept
1779, and prior to their Act of March
1780.]
[Concluded.]
IT has indeed happened, that a progreflivi
depreciation of our currency has accompa
died its growing quantity ; and to this is proba
aly owing in a great measure the prevalence oi
hedoftrine hereoppofed. When the fa£l how
:vcr is explained, it will be found to coincide
perfectly with what h.:s beer. said. Every or.?
mud have taken notice that, in ol
Ccrrtgrefs, no prccife time ha>; been (iLpulated
for their redemption, nor any fpecific provision
made for that purpose. A general promile en
tit ling the bearer to so many dollars of metal as
the paper bills exprels, has been the o.ily balls
of their credit. Every one therefore has been
left to his own conjectures as to the time the re
demption would be fulfilled ; and as every ad
dition made to the quantity in circulation,
wou'.d naturally be supposed to remove to a pro
portionally greater dillance the redemption ol
the whole mass, it could not happen otherwise
than that every additional emifTion would be fol
lowed by a fuitber depreciation.
In like manner has the effefct of a difiruft of
public credit, the other source of depreciation,
been erroneously imputed to the quantity ot
money. The circumfiances under which our
early emissions were made, could not but Itrong
ly concur, with the futurity of their redemption,
to debate their value. The lituation of the Uni
ted States referable;) that of an individual enga
ged in an expensive undertaking, carried on, for
want of calh, with bonds and notes secured on
an efiate to which his title was disputed; and
who had besides, a combination of enemies em
ploying every artifice to disparage that security.
A train of sinister events, during the early stages
of the war likewise contributed to increase the
diftrufl of the public ability to fulfil their engage
ments. Before the depreciation anting from
this cause was removed by the luccefs of our
arms, and our alliance with France, it had
drawn so large a quantity into circulation, that
the quantity itfelf soon after begat a diftrul of
j the public difpcfition to fulfil their engagements;
I as well as new doubts, in timid minds, concern
ing the ilTue of the contest. From that period,
( this cause of depreciation has been inceflant
;ly operating. It has lirft conduced to fwcll
the amount of necelfary emissions, aikl from
that very amount has derived new force and ef
| ficacy to itfelf. Thus, a furthet dilcredit of our
j money has neceflanly followed the augmenta
tion of us quantity ; but everv one uiutl perceive,
' that it has not been the eSett of the quantity,
| considered in itfelf, but coiiGdered as an omen
ol public bankruptcy.*
I Whether the money of a country, then, be
1 gold and fiiver, or paper currency, it appears
that its value is not regulated by its quantity. II
it be the former, its value depends on the gene
ral proportion of .gold and fiiver, to circulating
j property thioughout all countries having free
I inter communication. If the latter, it depend
on the credit of the state issuing it, and the time
at which it is to become equal to gold and fiiver.
Every circumllance which has been found to
* As the depreciation of our money has been aj
' cubed to a wrong cause, so, it may be remarked,
have Jf eels ban ascribed to the depreciation, which
rejul tjiom other causes. Momy is the instrument by
which men's wants are J'upplied, and many who
pojjcfs it will part with it fur that purpose, who
; would not grutfy the/if Ives a theexpeiicc of then
| vijibt property. Many also may acquire it, who
j have no visible property. By ncreaflng thequan
, tity oj money therefore, you both increase th. i.eans
°JJh ndtn g, a "4Jhmulate the dfire toflperid; and
J the objects drjired do not inc cafe in proportion,
thar price mujl rife from the influence of the great
er demand for them. Should the objects in demand
\ happen, at the fame juncture, as n the United
States, to become farcer, their prices mujt rift in a
double proportion.
It is by this influence of an augmentation of mo
ney on demand, that we ought to account for tha
proportional level of momy, in all countries, which
Mr. Hue attributes to its direct influencconprices.
When an augmentation of the national . oin takes
place, :t may be supposed either, 1. not to aug
ment demand at all; or, 2. toaugi entit so errada
; ally that a proportional increase of induflry will
Juppiythe objects of it ; or, 3. to augment it Jo
rapidly that the donvfuc market may prove inade
quate, whiljl the tafle for dfiinciion natural to
1 wealth, injpires, at the Jam time, a preference for
I foreign luxuries. The f. si cafe c nflldom
Here it to happen, no change in prices, nor any ej
jlux ofmomy, wouldenfue ;. unlfs indeed, itJhould
be employe:!, or leaned abroad. The fuperflucus
portion wot Id ' cither hoarded or turned into plate.
Thefcond caf can ccair onlywhere the augmenta
tion of money advances with a very flow and equa
ble pace', and would be attended neither with a
rtf of pnees, nor with afupejluity of money. The
thu dis the only cafe, in which the plenty 'of money
would 00 upon it to overflow into other countries.
The infujju uncy oj the heme market to fatisfy the
demand would be [applied from fich countries as
might afford the avtichs in demand-, and the money
would thus be di aim deff, till that and the demand
excited by it, fhouldJail to a proper level, and
i balance be thereby rejlored between exports and im
ports.
1 The printipw. cn which Mr, Hume's theory, and
that oj A cntj'quieu's before turn, isfcunded, is rna
"'ffl'y erroneous. He conflders the money in every
country as the icprejentative of the whole circula
te"'' property and induflry in the country-, and
th nee concludes, that every variation in its quan
tity mujl increase or lejfen the portion which repre
flnts thejame portion if property and labor. The
error lies in supposing, that because money fervesto
measure the value of all things, it reprefnts and
is equal in value to all things. The circulating
property in every country, accoi ding to its market
rate, ,ar exceeds the amount of its money. At
Athens oxen, at Rome sheep, were once ujed as a
meajure of the value of other things, h will hard
ly befuppofed, they were threfore equal m value to
all other things.
accurate ike depfeciation of our currency na
turally reiolves itfelf into these general princi
ples. The spirit of monopoly hath affected it
in no other way than by creating an artificial
feat city of commodities wanted for public use,
the conlequence of which has been an increafc
oftheir price, and of the neceffarv emissions.
Now it is thisincreafe of emissions which has been
(hewn to lengthen the supposed period of their
redemption, and to foller suspicions of public
credit. Monopolies destroy the natural relation
between money and commodities ; but it is by
raising the value of the latter, not by debasing
that of the former. Had our money been gold
or filter, the fame prevalence of monopoly
would have had the fame effect on puces and
expenditures; but these would not have had the
fame effefcl on the value of money.
The depreciation of our money has been
charged on mifconduft in the purchasing de
partments : but this mifconducl must have ooe
rated in the fame manner as the spirit of mono
poly. By u.mcceffarily raising the price of ar
ticles required for public use, it has lwelled the
amount of neceffaiy emilfions, on which has
depended the general opinion concerning the
time and the probability of their redemption.
The lame remaik may be applied to the defi
ciency of imported commodities. The deficien
cy of these commodities has raised the price of
them ; the rife of theii price has increased the
emissions for purchasing them ; and with the
increale of emiilions, have incrcafed suspicions
concerning their redemption. j
Those who consider the quantity of monev as '
the criterion of its value, compute the intrinsic
depreciation of our currency by dividing the
whole mass by the supposed necefTary medium
of circulation. Thus iuppofing the medium ne
ceffaiy for the United States to be 30,000,000
dollars, and the circulating emilfions to be
200,000,000 the intrinsic difference between
paper ar.d Ipecie will be nearly as 7 for 1. If
its value depends 011 the time of its redemption,
as hath been above maintained, the real differ
ence will be found to be considerably less. Sup
pose the period nectffaty for its redemption to
be )8 years, as seems to be undeiftood by Con
grels; 100 doll.us of paper 18 years hence will
be equal tn value to 100 dollais of specie ; for at
the end of that term, 100 dollars of specie may
be demanded for them. They muff consequent
ly at this time be equal to as much specie as,
with compound interefl, will amount, in that
number of years, to 100 dollars. If the inter
est of money be rated at 5 per cent, this present
lum of Ipecie'will be about 41 t-2 dollars. Ad
mit, ho -vever the use of money to be worth 6
per cent, about 35 dollars will then amount in
18 years to 100. 35 dollars of specie therefore
is at this time equal to 100 of paper ; that is, the
man who would exchange his specie for paper
at thisdifcount, and lock it in his de(k for 18
years, would get 6 per cent, for his money. The
proportion of>oo to 35 is less than 3toi. The
intrinsic depreciation of our money therefore,
according to this rule of computation, is less than
3 to 1 ; mftead of 7 to 1, according to the rule
espoused in the circular address, or of 30 or 40
to I, according to its currency in the market.
1 shall conclude with observing, that if the
preceding principles and reasoning be just, the
plan on which our domestic loans have been ob
tained, must have operated in a manner direfily
contrary to what was intended. A loan-office
certificate differs in nothing from a common bill
of credit, except in its higher denomination, and
in the iniereft allowed or. it; and the interest is
allowed, merely as a compensation to the lender,
for exchanging a number of small bills, which
being easily transferable, are mod convenient,
tor a single one lo laigc as not to be transferable
in ordinaiy tianfadions. As the certificates,
however, do circulate in many of the more con
lideiable tianfaflions, it may jufily be tmeftion
ed, even on the supposition that the value of mo
ney depended on us quantity, whether the ad
vantage to the public from the exchange, would
juftify the terms of it. But difmifling this con
(ideration, I ask whether Rich loans do in ary
shape, lessen the public debt, and thereby ren
der the difchargc of it less suspected or less re
mote ? Do they give any new affuiance that a
paper dollar will be one dav equal to a filvcr dol
lar, or do they shorten the distance of that day ?
Far from it : Ihe certificates conflitute a part of
the public debt no less than the bills of credit
exchanged for them, and equal chim to
redemption within the general peiiod ; nay, are
to be paid of! long before the expiration of that
period, with bills of crcdit, which will thus re
turn into the geneiai mass, to be redeemed alon™"
with it. Were these bills, therefore, not to be
taki n out of circulation at all, by means of the
certificates, not only the expence of offices for
exchanging, re-exchanging, and annually paying
the interest, would be avoided ; but the whole
sum of interest would be saved, which must mike
a formidable addition to the public emissions
protratl the period of their redemption, and prol
portionally increalc their depreciation. No ex.
pedient could perhaps have been oevifed more
piepolleious and unlucky. In order to relieve
public crcdit finking under the weight of an
enormous debt, we invent new expen litures. In
order to raise the value of our money, which de
pends on the time of its redemption, we have
recourse to a measure which removes its redemp
tion to a more distant day. Instead of paying off
the capital to the public creditors, we give them
an enormous interest to change the name of the*
bit of paper which expresses the sum due to
'hem; and think it a piece of dexterity 111
finance, by emitting lean-office certificates, to elude
the neceflity of emitting b.IU of credit.PHI L.A Delphi A,
December 22.
The Virginia Gazette, of the ,4th inft. men
tions a meeting ot sundry merchants of that Hate
at Petcrlburg on the ift'and 3d of Dec. inft. tc
consider on the expediency ofedablilhin'ga State
B.mk. At the lecond meeting they came tc
the following refolut on, " That it be recom
mended to the citizens of this commonwealth,
in general, and to the mercantile towns in par
ticular, that they meet by their reprefentativcs
in the city of Richmond on the firft day'ofMay
next, to consider the piopriuy of an application
to the general assembly for the e ;abliihment of
a (late bank.".
On Tuefdav laftthe bank ofthe United States
commenced bufrnefsin this city, when (it is (aid)
dtlcounts were made to a large amount. The
I'pt cie deposited in the bank of the United States,
by pnvate pcrfons, amounted lad week to near
ly one-half of the fpecic capital of the bank.
We hear from Brunfwick, (New-Jersey) that
on the ljth inllant, the valuable mills upon
Milillone river, belonging to Archibald Mercer,
E(cj. deputy governor of the manufacturing com
pany of Ncw-Jerfey, took fire and were totally
consumed, with property therein to the value ol
about five thousand pounds in flour, wheat, and
other fpccics of grain. The lire is laid to have
been communicated from an iron fire-Hove which
was ulcd in levere weather to prevent the ice
from clogging the wheels.
Most of the late French papers teem with ac
counts (e trafled from foreign letters and
of projects, preparations, aimaments, marches anc
counter marches, tending to induce a belief thai
a counter-revolution in Fiance will beattemptec
early in the fprtng by the united powers of Ruf
fia, Sweden, Germany, Switzei land, Sardinia, ths
Pupal territory, Great-Britain, &c. Two confi
derations, however, among.several others, feeti
to mark thc-le accounts as not worth transferrin;
into Amencan papers. The one is, the final ac
ceptance ot the conftnution by the King o
Fiance ; and secondly, the Etnpeior Leopold II
having direfled hire forts at Ollend to acknow
ledge the new (lag of the French nation, by re
turninglhe fa!u:< s fired under that flag. Add to this
that the idea ot a countc-revolution, at present
is-ablurd, as a war toreHore defpotif governmen
ill France would be a war without an object, thi
monarch having voluntarily declared himfelf <
f.nr.ere convert to rcuolvtiond/ principles.
1. \ tract-from a AW-J urk paper of the 14 th infant
" i he claims ot the loyaliftshaving
appeared cnoimoufly great to the British parlia
ment, and objected to on that account in the
hotile of Commons, a Mr. Ar.fley was fern
ovt r to America to examine into the claims o
fucfi loyaliftsas were supposed to have exaggera
ted their lodes—When Anfley arrived, th<
rbimaws entertained him' with dinners and will
dances; inflated him with nonsense, and gavt
him fair words indead of money. The confe
quence was, that he returned to England wit!
a very favorable repoit upon their claims, auc
scon alter his arrival the commiflioners of claim.
showed him three thousand oi.e hundred aud sis
ty pounds fleihng for his fervices!—Of th(
claims of the loyalills, in general, little need now
he (aid more than that there arc gentlemen, whe
can make it appear evidently clear, that up
wards oi seven hundred thousand pounds (leriint
has been claimed from England by the royal re
fugecs, more than the claimants weie ever worth
in the (late of New-Yoik only-"
There is the highest probability that the report!
relative to the capturc of l ort Jefferfon, are un
founded,
it is most probable, that General Scott, wit!
the Kentucky militia, way repair to the said port
and bring off the wounded left there; andasitap
f ears too far advanced to be supported, the garri
son may probably be withdrawn.
The public may be allured there are ground;
whereon to estimate the enemy who encountered
Gen. St. Clair's army, at about three thoufanc
warriors. It is said, that upwards of eleven hun
dred warriors of the Cttawas and Chippawas
who inhabit the waters of lake Superior, Micha
gan and Huron, came to the affillance of the Mi
ami Indians. This number, combined with th<
Miami Indians, the Powtewattimas, Wyandots
Telawares, and upper Wabafh Indians, would ful
ly amount to the number above mentioned.
It is said that the Miami Indians, at the head o
whom are the remnants of their towns burnt b]
General Harmar, in C 61. i ;00, sent messages to tin
most distant nations of Indians, as well to the south
ward as to the westward, for afiiftance. Althougl
it does not appear they received any afiiftance fron
the south ward, as a4l those powerful tribes, amount
ing to about fifteen thousand warriors, are at peace
and have treaties with the United states ; yet tht
hostile Indians were but two fuccelsful in theii
negociations westward.
It is further said, that some of the nation of the
£ues would have been in the a<stion, had not theii
distance prevented. This nation are very nume
rous, and inhabit the conntry upon the upper parts
of the JVifiifippi, and mostly to the westward
thereof.
It is also said, that neither the famous Mohawk
hief,Capt Joseph Brant, or any of the fix nati
ons, joined the Jviiami Indians. Captain Brant was
at Niagara the beginning of November, several
hundred miles from the place of adtion.
\_From a correfpondent.~\
IT has been observed that most of the wheal
imported from Virginia this year has been found
infected with ,heJ7y. This circumftanee has giv
en rife to the following refleaior.s, which you wil
please to wfert in your Nat.mal Gazette. Two o
three years after the commencement of the lat
warm America, this inftd began its ravages 01
the wheat fields of this country, particularly in th
°' Maryland and Delaware, to such a de
gree as to render the grain nearly useless, so tha
during.the latter years of the war, wheat becam
very scarce. But we know of no material damaui
oeing done since, till the present year.—The Cauf
of the fly being so generally in the wheat at th.
p-riod alluded to, during the war, mud have beti
>wing to the crops being kept in the country for ;
whole year fucCceding the harvest, there not bein f
i iufficient vent for them at that time to foreigi
:ountries—but the cause of their being in the Vir
Jima wheat this year originates from the very higf
price that wheat rose to in the spring 1790.' The
extraordinary price of wheat at that time inaucet
lie farmer to let it (land in stack till late in th.
pring of . 7QI. Hence it happens that the few o
his infe<st which are generated every year, beint
iy this means sheltered from the winters froft, an
:arned out into the fields in the ftraiv, and t'her,
lepofite their eggs—lf the wheat in Virginia b.
tept in stack as late the spring ensuing as it wa
ast spring, and the straw not burnt, or as effeflu
lily destroyed some other way, we may expei
heir next crop to be totally ruined, and the fl<
:xtend its ravages into Maryland.
It is a matter of great consequence to the inter
jfts of this country that in cafe of low price
:he farmer should have it in his power to keci
jack one or more crops for better markets. Bu
this can be done with much left waste am
greater {afety to the grain, by having it threthe.
DUt and depofitedin granaries ratherthankeeping 1
over in the stack.—The fly has, as yet, done ver
little damage farther north than the state of Dela
ware. If therefore the states of Virginia, Mary
land, and Delaware would fall upon some plan t
compel their farmers to threlh out their wheat e
very year, in Virginia by the firft of February, an.
111 Maryland and Delaware by the firft of March
and then immediately either use or destroy th.
straw, it is conceived there never would be an
danger from this deftru&ive infeeft.
Ihe diie£tors of the focicty for promctim
ufeful manufaflorics in New-Jersey, have order
ed the firtt payment to be made on'or before th.
r 3. tn ps January next. The said directors havi
tlf'o given notice that they will receive proposal
n writing from sny bodies corporate, township
3r individuals in the said slate, who may be de
[irous of securing the emoluments which will re
lull from this establishment. The applicant
mull particularly fpecify the following points :
"1 he advantage of water, for the purpose o
erecting mills and other hydraulic machines, ne
.euary lor the etla hlhmcnt of a cotton manu
factory on an extensive I'cale. This flatemen
s to be accomp nied with an actual survey, shew
ng the courle of the waters, the different levels
icd the nature and position of the adjoininf
lands. Ihe advantages ot fuel, not only so.
present but for future use ; in this statement i
!o be detailed the quantity and price of wood
:oal or tuif, within the piopoled dillri£t, ant
he refoitrces which may be calculated on fortht
rontinuance of a very extenlive supply for a fe
ries of years. The ad'vantagesof lubfiflence; thr
[latement is to shew the average price of wheat
:orn, rye, beef, mutton, pork and other pnnci
pal articles of piovihon, and the means to be re
lied on in future, for a conllant supply on rea
.onable teims, toa populous town.
Ihe advantages of population ; this state
ment is to detail with accuracy, not only th<
number ol inhabitants within the proposed dif
;ii£t, but of the countiv furroundiiig it for »ht
[pace at lealt of thiity miles.
Ihe advantage of building materials, to de
rail the present price of oak and pine timber,
boards, plank, (hingles, brick, stone, lime, &c.
and the resources which may be relied on for J
series of years, for a plentiful supply of thoft
irticles at reasonable rates.
The advantages ol intercourse with the prin
cipal commercial towns. In thisftatement to be
'hewn, the diltance of the proposed diftrift, to
he following places ; the city of New-York,
he city of Philadelphia, the citv of New-Brunf
,vick, the city o Am boy, the city ofßurlington,
rrenton, Elizabeth-Town, Newark; together
with the price of transportation, by land and bv
water, 10 the refpeflive places above mentioned.
Ihe advantages to be held up to the society
or employing wiihin the proposed didrift, an
ifiive capital of One Mill on of Dollars. In
his statement the applicants to fpecifv in parti
:ular, what quantity of land, or land covered
wthwater, they will be willing to give or fell to
he company, and 011 what conditions as to price
ind time of payment; with fu h other circum
lances as may induce a preference to their re
peftive proposals.
The society have fixed on the feventeemh of
fanuary next, to meet at the city of New-Brunf
vick, in orderto determine finally on the prin
ipal feat of their manufactories.
Further accounis fiom Kentucky to the 2°d.
November, state, that the whole number of the
rmy in the Weftetn expedition were twelve
lundred only—That Major Hamtramck with
.bout 4CO men was about go or 35 miles on
heir march to join the army— That upon hear
ng two firings of the cannon early in the morn
ng, he marched on 6 miles beyond Fort Jef
erfon, when he met some of the retreatingtroops
ind immediately joining them, turned about, and
withihe foremoft entered Fort Jefferfon, instead
if throwing him felt in the rear, and giving aid to
the wounded ; he has been since arretted by or
der of Col. Dark ; That soon after the ad ion
commenced, tlie army was furrotinded and wedg
ed in by the Indians, and did not cover more
than one and a half acres of ground, which ac
counts for the heavy daughter ; That v. 01. Darke,
with his command of regular troops, forced
through the enemy, and opened a retreat to th<
reft of the army.
We arc informed that a deputation from th<
Creek Nation of Indians, embarked on board th<
brig Philadelphia, Capt. Waters, at Charleston, or
he ift December, and are daily expe&ed here.
A dctatchment of recruits, under command o
Lapt. Cafs, belonging to the second regiment, arii
red on Thursday in this city, from New-Hamp
-hire and Rhode- Hand.
Extra EI of a letter from Marietta* of Sept. 14,
1 791. reieivcd by a Gmiieman ir Bojions
Our pjclen 1 : situation is diltrefling, as we hav
10 troops left here to guard us. Twenty-fix o
:hc inhabitants have enlifled for two months
:omma ruled .b) Capi. Joseph Prince.
Capt; Newman, and Enflgn Balch havegon<
down the river with a conliderabJe number c
troups, and more art expelled loon.
i tie re have been two persons killed by the In
dians here lately i a Capt. Rogers, and old Mr
at the mouth of Duck Creek ; and a lon o
Mr. Convers, taken prisoner at Wolf Creek. Alfc
°, re R ; !, y killed at BeJivi-lle, and his lon taken—
tort Karmerjs dernolifhed, and nothing left bu
one blockhouse.
being cooped up so thick, has made it some
what sickly bete 5 at Bell Pre and Wolf Creel
they a e huddled together much as we are, bu
have been more unfortunate in the loss of tnei
cattle. ihe Indians jiave killed and drove of
about 20 head from these places, and have killec
iome with arrows which were found in them—th<
arrows were pointed with tin, and very cuiioufli
made. A scout followed aud overtook them, kil
led one, and we luppofe wounded another, cut of
the dead man's head, and brought it in trium
phantly on a pole."
CAPE FRANCOIS, Nov. 2.
[Translated from a handbill printed at the Cape.
A pvopofition was made on the sth of Odober
that thole persons whole property had not been de
ftroj.ed by the negroes fliould contribute to the ne
ceillt-ies of luch as had been ruined in confequenc
of the revolt, and had taken refuge at the Cape
naked and destitute of every thing.—On the othe
hand, the Cape it (elf is in such a critical lltuation
that the inhabitants have been, in general, so
iome time past deprived of the means of providinj
the neceft'aries of life for themselves j and provi'
lions are every day becoming dearer and scarcer, a
:he existing troubles discourage foreign veffelsfron
:oming any longer to our ports.
It would Item equitable, then, that the inhabi
"ants of the south and weft departments of tin
Hand, together with such of them in the northeri
Jepartment whole property has been preserved, wil
/oluntarily announce their intentions of contiibu
ing to the relief of such of their fellow-citizens a
have been ruined. Should they avow this to .bi
HVeTr intention, the most eligible mode of raifirl]
he benefa&ion (after colle&ing a sum for the im
mediate relief of the fuffer|rs) will be the fixinj
jpon a certain proportion o/the annual income o
:\;ery planter, for that purpose, to be diitributet
among the fufferers for a number of years.
Should this proportion be fixed at ten per cent
jpon the whole produce of the uninjured property
t will raile fifteen millions yearly for the use o
he ruined planters, supposing the prices of pro
luce to be as eftiinated in the annexed table. Bui
he annual reiiefwiJJin reality be much mori
onliderable, as it is evident rhe former price o;
ugar will now be doubled in conference of th<
avages.
Tke sum total of rhe articles exported from thi
:olony in 1759, is as follows :
-laved Sugar, 47,516,5311b. 'valued 33,261,57
3rain Sugar, 93,573,30° - - 42,107,90;
.0 flee, - - 76,835,219 - - 76,83 5,2 1 <
.otton, - - 7,004,274 - - 11,907,26
- - 758,628 - - 7,586,28*
-acao, Hides, Molalfes. and Taffia, 50,00 c
Total value, livres, 171,748,33-
The Kind's Grant-duty, upon which at four pe
ent. was
The burnt quai;er of the island contained 172
1 g r plantations, 936 coffee ditto, 12 cctron ditto,
iid 14 indigo plantations, the value of whoft
ea ly produce was about thirty miilions of livres
\hich reduces the value of the exports from thi;
Hand in 1789, to 14;,748,333 livres.
So that the te-a per cent from this sum wil
'ield from fourteen to fifteen millions of livres
early, for the relief of the adlual fufferers, with
out mentioning the accidental increase of price ir
lland produce, which circumstances have occa
lorted since that time.
By pursuing such a plan as the foregoing, the
inr.ual growth of the produce of one part of the
rolonv, will loon repair the damages that the ne
;ro revolt has occasioned in the other.
(Signed) Le FEVRE,
Deputy of the Cape.
November 3. Me.n actuated solely by the love oj
Libitty in any revolt will always manifeft in theii
iiitions some tokens of the generous principle up
>n which the revolt is founded. This has not
jc-en the cafe with the Negroes in this unfortu
iate Island. They have a&ed on all occasions
.vith the raoft relentless barbarity—no refpeft has
been paid to sex, and even the tender age of inno
;ence has fullered the lingering pangs of death
and torture under the hands of thefc inhuman
miscreants. The Negro chiefs, the moment they
were inverted with commifiiorii by the frantic
multitude, aflumed the fierce and despotic mode
of military command that is customary on the
Guinea coast in Afiica. They have not con
tented themselves only with mutilating their white
prisoners [in a manner t;oo horrid to relate] be-
■ ire the mortal ftrck: wat jHes, tut even cut < fit
hp heads of rheir own blnck adherents, f ' tlu:
mod trifling faults that can be imagiticd.— A
mjil notorious villain of the negro party, natned
JeanriOt, who had efcapcd, from prison three )" 'rs
jgo, and fied into the mountains, aftcd a mitaWlv
ait ih this revolt : he had conf.antly rid in his
nailers coach during these troubles, and the other
lay cut the throat of his negro coachman, lor
diking his leave to fieep a little, after .1 forenoon's
: :de.—-Whenever any of the negro chiefs under
b:m returned with ill.success in their engagements
•vith the whites, it has been his constant pra£lici:
"0 put them to death without mercy. Such plan
:ari.in negroes as were detailed amongst these
■vjetches against their will, and have made their
Icape, have declared their present condition envi
ibte in cor:ipa:ifcn to that under the negro gov
ernment.— May the terrible history of this revolt,
\ hen published, ferveas a lesion to certain phi -
anthropills in the neighbouring Island;, who, in
'ilfeminating their vilionary principles, have
urm d loose upon us a hod of barbarians, whose
varfare is inaifcriminate (laughter.
*•* ,
TranJlationsfrom French Papers.
Gourdes, Sept. 20. On the 16th instant,
Durfuit, late commandant of the Nation
guards for tlje department of Gironde, was arref!-
d in his houfa by a detachment of the guards, L
>rder of the municipality, and carried ro the con)
rton prison, and his papers put under the cufcouy
t the leal. The lame day the municipalitv iffu
■d a decree to the following etre£l : " The muni
ipa iry b-.ing informed that men's veils are manu
. £tu red i n this city, vai legated with flowei s-de-lis,
Ind on which art imprinted the arms of the Or
nan empire, with the motto—Long lint the King!
Long ,1 -ve tic Queen ! —and being alio informed
hat these vefh are worn as a mark of difcrimina
ion, and as a (ignal for the enemies of the conffi
ution to know each other by, upon a proper occa
inn—Deit tßereforeordained, that the mayor and
liters belonging to the municipality, after having
nade inquiry into, and fatisfied tht-mfefves in re''
tard to the truth of this matter, do make report
o the attorney-general : and that all persons be,
n future, flridily forbidden to wear waiffcoats or
• efts, ot the above description, under pain of being
irofecuted as enemies of the public peace."
The motives that induced Louis XVI. to ac
:ept the constitutional code are of such a nature as
lot to le v e the lealt pretext fur the confederated
>oweis to attack the revojutionids in France. '
1 he King of Prufiia has been besieged, in a
nanncr, by the emifl'aries of Pitt, the Eng-lilh mi
nder, as well as those of the Princcfs of Orange,
vho does not consider herfelf fafe in her ufurpa
ion, unless 3 counter-revolution lakes pjace. But
he Stadtholdtr himfelfvveH knows that the Era*
ieror-would be the principal agent in such an at
empt, and.that if it (hould succeed Leopold would
vcquire the fame influence in France, that the
vingof Piuflia now has in Holland. Ho (Leo
;old) is extremely avaricious; he hates loth cler
ty and nobility, and without a certainty of success,
lever would have ventured upon any expedition
igainft This certainty could only have
irifen from the interior circumstances and yenersl
irfpontron of the nation, The King is still reprr.
ented as wifliing to make his escape from tin
cingdom, could he elude the vigilance of the af
embly—but those who propagate such an opinion
ire the very persons that, previous to his firrt ef
ape, had soured his mind and imbittered his peace,
>y alarming him with imaginary terrors, a.id i:'i
act making him a prisoner for fear of treaibns
hat did not exist in the minds of the pvple.
The articles (ketching the outlines of colonial
jovernment, as proposed to the Affrmbly by M,
harnave, on the 24th September, have been de
rtcJ, only with the following amendment in the
hird article : " The laws relative to (laves, and
■ lie political situation of mulattoes and free ne
groes, as well as the regulations relative to the ex
ecution of such laws, (h all be made bv the colonial
; ind, with the approbation of rhe fev
;ral governors of the colonies, shall be executed
tircvificnally, duting one year for the American
colonies, and two years for the colonies in Alia :
mmediately after their parting in the colonies they
ire to be fern home, for the fanftionof the Kin?-
hcir execution in the mean time not to be impe
ded, or the power granted to the assemblies, in
ringed, by any prior decree whatever.
The Holy office of the inquisition at Rome hat
T'lifhcd the trial of M. Oflavius Capelli, whom
hey call the ApoJiU cf unbelief. He has been
ironounced worthy of extreme punifliment, and is
.onfequentJy delivered up to the secular power.
At any Other time than the present hewould have
ieen treated with less severity, but it has bee:,
nought proper to make him a severe example,
>nd exert the utmost rigour of the law, when im
)iety dares to attack the rights of the Holy fee.
People are waiting in anxious expeflation for th
dutodafe [bon-fire] which the Holy Father il
ireparing, in order to execute the fenrence of the
hnce holyinquificion. It would seem odd thlt
here (hould be such a thing as a secular arm, or
emporal power, at Rome, where the government
s wholly ecclesiastic, did we notconfider that there
>y is meant the Lay.Magistrates, the Sbirri and
Jack ketches, to whom the Church, like a ten
ler mother, delivers over all those of her refrafto
y children that (he has not cruelty enough to
nurder with her own hands.
Another tribunal, not less odious than the of
ice of the inquisition, is ertablifted at Venice
inder the authority of which an execution has ta
cen place that has (buck people with horror. A
nan was hanged during the night time at the co
"mn of St. Mark, and exposed to public view
lext morninp, wrapped up in canvas, with this
abel—lt K thus that the Republic rewards Free
Majons. This unfortunate viflim of Aristocratic
Darbarity was the Marquis Vivaldi, well known
or the secret correspondence he had held with the
amousCagliollro. Is it possible there can still
be a country in the world where the people are i e .
noranttbat a Judge who pafl'es sentence, and exe
cutes it in secrecy is no better than an affafiin ?The COUNTRY PRINTER.
[i ContinuedJ
ALL Is not Truth ('tis said) that travellers teii—
So much the better for this man of' news :
For hence, the country round that know him well,
"Will, if he prints feme lies, his lies excuse.
Earthquakes, and battles, shipwrecks, myriads
(lain—
If falfe or true —alike to him are gain.
But if this motley tribe fay nothing new,
Then many a lazy, longing look is call
To watch the weary poll-boy travelling through,
On horse's rump, his budget buckled fad ;
With letters fafe in leathern prifoß pent
And, wet from press, full many a packet sent.
Not Argus with his fifty pair of eyes
Look'd foarper for his prey than hone ft Type
Explores each package, of alluring size,
Prepared to seize them with a nimble gripe
Did not the post-boy watch his goods, and swear
That village Type shall only have his (hare.
A!k you what matter fills his various page ?
A mere farrago 'tis of mingled things;
What'er is done on madam Terra's fiage
He to the knowledge of his townsmen brings :
One while, he tells of Monarchs run away ;
And now, of witches downed in Buzzard's bay.
Some miracles he makes, and some he steals ;
Half nature's works are giants in his eyes :
Much, very much, in wonderment he deals,—
New-Hampfliire apples grown to pompkin size,
Pompkins almost as large as country inns
And ladies bearing, each, —three lovely twins !
He, births and deaths with cold indifference views;
A paragraph from him is all they claim :
And here the rural 'fquirc, amongst the news
Sees the fair record of his father's fame ;
All that was good, minutely brought to light,
All that was ill, —conceal'd from vulgar !
[To be continued.]
PARIS, oa. 19.
Letter from the Minijier of the llon e Department,
to the Department ofLcrrent, of Lei re and Cher,
lndre and Loire, and Mayenne and Loire.
Cflober 12.
<e The King is informed, gentlemen, that thf
free circulation of grain continues to experiepcf
great difficulties. The tranfpoitations on tm
Loire particularly are exposed ro many obftacler,
The situation of the inhabitants of several depart
ments is thus aft'edted by obfracles, which, by in
creasing their inquietude, at the fame time occa
sion the high price of the I'm all quantity of prov'.
fions which remains in their pofl'eflion. His Mn
jelly cannot fee without concern the catalogue o
evils which may be the consequence of these ob
stacles, and has ordered me to write to you, in th<
moll urgent manner, to put a Hop to them. There
are few circumstances, gentlemen, by which yoi
will be better able to'diftinguilh your zeal, anc
render yourselves more ufeful ; for it is in voui
power, by protecting the free paiTage of grain, tc
iecure the subsistence of a part of the inhabitant!
of the kingdom. It is in your power to prevent
the disorders to which they may abandon them
selves, if they are left longer in uncertainty, with
regard to the succour which is intended lor them.
Jc is in your power to relieve yourselves of all res
ponsibility for these disorders, and to bid defiance
to censure, by employing all the means which the
law has put within your reach, effectually to se
cure the free circulation. It is even the intcreft
of t'nofe under your administration to favor if, and
it will be easy for you to render them sensible ol
this truth, by fliowing them that they would be
the vidtims of their own example, when their
wants should make them feel in their turn in
difpenfabje necefiity for the freedom of circulation.
" The King, in accepting the constitution, pro
mised to cause it to be observed. The King ha-,
promised to cause the laws to be executed : but ii l
forming this engagement, gentlemen, the Kin*
reckoned with, confidence on your zeal, on your
courage, on your firmnefs; the King efpeciall)
confided in that sentiment of honor, which indu
ces free men to ihow themselves worthy of the ho
norable choice which has diftinguilhed them
amongst their fellow-citizens, by calling them tc
fundi ion s which command zeal and attachment.
It is by you alone that the King can cause the
laws to be executed ; you are eftabliflied by the
constitution to a& according to the orders which
he gives you, and when he has transmitted them
to you, his funaion is fulfilled, and your dut)
Commence 1 ;. . , . .
•< The King fees with furpnfe that the princi
ples, which the National Afi'emblv has so offer
inculcated on the free circulation of grain, are ftil
disregarded ; and that the attention, which hi!
Majelly has always paid to make them public anc
recommend the observance of them, has not beer
more fuccefsfi*!. He renewed it by his proclama
tion of the 27th of last month. It is your parr
gentlemen, to endeavor to enlighten the peopU
with refpcdl to the evils which mud result frum fc
formal a difobediencc to the law. Inform then
how criminal they will render themselves, by per
illing to oppose the free paiTage of transportations
by your department, aswell as on the course of the
Loire : inform them, that you alio will be crimi
nal, if you longer employ an indulgence, which ha!
hitherto been found ineffectual, and enable m«
quickly to give an account to the King of the ex
ecution of the orders, which I transmit to you b)
his dire&ion.
The Minifler of the Home Department.
(Signed) " De Lessart.'
Letter of the King to the Commandants of the Ports,
" Paris, OElobcr 13.
" I AM informed, gentlemen, that emigra
tions every day increase in the body of the marine,
and can no longer delay to express to you the live
ly concern which I feel from this circumstance.
How can it happen, that the officers of a bo
dv, whole glory has always been so dear tome,
avjJ who hare at all times afforded me the most fig-
,ai proofs of the** attachment and of their zea
or the fervicc ot the slate, should allow them-
V'ves to be inifled so far as to fight of what
hey owe to their country, what they owe t o m>
ffe&ions, what they owe to themselves ?
*' This measure of extremity would have ap
ieared less furpri.zing foir.e months since, when
narchy. leemed to be at its height, and when it:
ieriod could not be ascertained.
" But now, that the greatest and molt pru
ent part of the nation are desirous of the relirr
f order and of fubmi Hi on to the laws, can it d<
oillble that generous and faithful marines (houh
ntertain a thought offeparating themselves iron
heir king ?
4< AfTure thofc brave officers, whom I esteem
I'hom I love, and who have merited it, that hono
nd their country I'ummon them. AflTure them
hat their return, which I desire above every thing
no in which I will recognize all good Frenchmen
ill my true friends, will restore them forever al
liy affedtion.
" It can no longer be difTembled that the ftrid
nd peaceable execution of the confiitution ss nov
he most certain method of appreciating ils ad
antages, and uifcovering what may be wanting tc
ts improvement.
What then is your uuty to all? To remair
aithful at vour poftr j to co-operate with me wit!
ilacrity and loyalty, in order to secure the cxecu
ion of the laws which the na'ion thinks mu(
:cnftitute its happiness j to give incessantly nev
iroofs of your attachment ro your country, ant
)f your zeal for its service.
iC It is thus that your fathers became illuftri
jus, and that you aifo have diftinguilhed your
elves ; such are the examples which you ought t<
eavc to your children, the remembrance of which
;ever to be extinguiftied, will constitute yourglory
" It is your king who demands of you to re
riain inviolably attached to the duties which yoi
lave always so well discharged j you would havi
cgarded it as a crime to refill his orders : you can
jot refufe to comply with his entreaties.
li I will not mention to you the dangers, t'n
jifagreeable consequences, which a contrary con
iudl might produce, ] will not foppofe that any o
/ou can forget that he is a Frenchman.
<£ I charge you, gentlemen, to addreis, on m;
?art, a copy of this letter, to all the officers be
raging to your department, and particularly t<
hole who may have quitted it.
(Signed) LOUIS.
And underneath) De Bertsand.
Proclamation cjthe King rejpeFting Emigrants*
October 14, T79"1«
THE king, informed that a great number o
Frenchmen quit th?:r country, and retire int.
"oreign lands, has not been able to fee, wlthou
he most lively concern, so considerable an cmi
rration ; and though the law allows all French
nen free departure from the kingdom, the king
vhofe paternal tenJernefs watches incefiantly to
;he general intereil, and for the interests of a!
ndividuals, is bound to inform those who re
nove from their country, of their true duty, an*
)f the cause of regret which they prepare for them
lives. If any of them were milled by the idc;
hat they afford the king a proof of their attach
ncnt, let them be undeceived, and underftam
hat the king will legard as his true, his oni;
riends, thole who ccvoperate with liin to main
ain and crtfcrce refpetl to the laws, to eftablhl
rder and peace in the kingdom, and con firry
very species of prosperity for which nature leeto;
o have destined it.
When the king accepted the confiitution, i.<
/ifhed to terminate civil discord, to rc-eftabl.fi
he authority of the laws, and likewise to fecuic
II the rights of liberty and property. He ough
o flatter himfelf, that all Frenchmen would le
ond his design ; "yet, at this very period, rir.i
rations seemed to multiply ; a number of citi
ens abandon their country and their king, anc
ire going to carry to neighboring nations thc 1 <
iches which the wants of their fellow citizens dc
nand $ thus, while the king endeavors to reftori
ranquility, and the happiness, which is its con
equence, it is then that they think that the;
lught to abandon him, and refufe hirn the aid
vhich he has a right to expert from all.
The king is not ignorant that several citizens
specially proprietors, have quitted their country
in'y because they have not found in the authori
y of the laws the protedlion which was due r:
hem ; his heart has lamented these disorders
>ut ought nothing to be allowed to circumstances :
-las not the king himfelf had causes of vexation i
\nd when he forgets them, to attend cniy to ti.'.
ommon happiness, has not he a right to cxpfell
hat they fliould follow his example ? How car
he empire of the laws be eftablifiied, if rll rh<
itizens do not co-operate with the head of :'><
late ? How can a stable and permanent <■; ' r I:
iftablifhed, and tranquility be reflored, if by ;
incere coincidence every individual does not con
ribute to terminate the general inquietude £—
hlow, in fine, shall the common interest fuperfedt
he interest ot individuals, if instead of exlin
;uilhing the spirit of party, every individual per
lfts in his own opinion, and prefers to go intr;
rxile rather than yield to the common opinion ?
What virtuous sentiment, what found intereil
an then produce these emigrations ! The l. iii;
>f party, which has occasioned all our
unes, is calculated only to prolong them.—
r renchmen, who have abandoned your country,
eturn into its bosom ; there is the pofi of honor.
>ecaufe true honor consists in serving our country,
and defending the law . Come to afford then
:'nat support, which is due from all good citizen* ;
lhey, in ie urn, will restore you all ti.'. 1 tianouiii
t) and happiness which you seek in vain in a so
reign land.
Return then, and let the heart of your kim
cease to be diftradted between thole sentiment:
which belong equally to all, and the duties 01
royalty which are principally attached ro thoit
who obey the law. All ought to follow him.
whilst he labors for the happiness of the people.
The king demands this re-union, in order tc
support his efforts, in order ro form the most deai
confolationj he demands it for the happli sO
of all 5 think of the distress which «-.n opp«-!i:«
conduit will occasion to youc king j Jet it be vt
-J
lome weight w'rti ycvJ, ' y £f -.:e h<m that as?];*-
:ion which to him would be themoft painful of all.
Done at Paris in the council of liate,
the 14th of Oiober, 179 r •
(Signed) LOUiS.
(Anil underneath) De Lessart.
Letter of the King to the Genera! Officers and Com
manders of the ejiablijhed Tfoops, adduced to
each Commander oj u Corps.
Paris, Oft. 14.
IN accepting, fir, the constitution, 1 promise
to maintain it wfahin, and defend »t against the
enemies from without the kingdom. I his »o
lemn adi, on my parr, ought to banith from youi
roind every kind ot uncertainty. Jt determine*,
at the fame time, in the clear«it and mo ft prcciit
manner, the rule of your duty, an i the motive
jf your fidelity. My intention is, that you
fliould announce to the trodps under your com
mand, that my determination, which 1 think ei
(ential to the happiftcfs of Frenchmen, 13 as in
variable as is my love for them.
The lav# and the king now blended together,
the enemy of the law becomes the enemy of the
king. Under wha ever pretence disobedience and
want of difvipline may now be coloured, 1 de
clare, that J fliall regard every attempt, every in
fringement of the law, as a crime ag«inft the na
:ion and against my person.
There may, perhaps, have been a time when
officers, by an attachment to my perion, doubifu,
if my real sentiments, might have thought ii
heir duty to hefltate on the obligations whicl
teemed to militate against their ii;:t engagement:
—but after all that I have done, this ertoi
ought no longer to subsist.
I cannot consider those as sincerely dfvoted t<
me, who abandon 'heir country in the rnomen
A'lien it requires their best lervices. Thole onlj
are lincerely attached to me, who follow th<
'"a me steps as mylelf—who remain firm to thci
post—who, far from defpairin.g ot the publn
lafety, confederate themselves with me in fcfied\
ing it, and are resolved to attach thcmlelves infe
:arably to the fate of the empire.
Tell, therefore all those who are under you
uders, both officers and soldiers, that the hap
jinels of their country depends on their union
heir mutual confidence, their entire fubmillioi
:o the Jaws, 2ni their active zeal to enforce thei
execution, The country requires this harmony
vhich constitutes its efficacy and power. Th
disorders, and the prefeiit circumstances
jiving to these virtues of the warrior, durinj
>eace, an inestimable value j to them wUI be du
:very kind of diftindlion, reward, and teftimon;
;f public acknowledgement.
(Signed J LOUIS,
f Countefigned) Dupoßtail.
FRANKFORT, 00. 6.
The reftilt of the conferences at Pilnitz appear;
it length to have tranlpired. it is reported thai
:he emperor was desirous that the repayment ol
he expences he should incur by attacking France
hould befecured by a mortgage upon Alsace and
Lorraine, which he wasto in depofir. It is
•ven pretended tit at the French Princes, had con
ented to this, fliamefnl condition; but the ac
ceptation of Louis XVI. which by diredl infinua
:ion was endeavored to Le prevented, changed
he face of affairs. The following are the arti
:!es which were iigned by tlie emperor and jjie
cing of Prufiia at the above meeting :
1. 1 he two high contracting parties fliall mu
ually affili each other, in cafe of aggreilSon, with
;c,coo men, and even with the whole of their
military torccs, fliould the attacked party require
t.
2. For the maintenance and exadl observance
)f the fulfi fine treaties between the German em
r.re and Trance, the two monarchs (hall con
ointly take those measures which fliall appear
r.oft proper: they fhali likewise concert toge
her the representations to be made to that pow
r on the fubjeft of th? claims of the injured
ninces ; and if negotiations do not produce all
he wiflied-for success, they fliall invite all the
:ircies of the empire to arm, and will themselves
et the example of procuring just ice by force*
3. The two high contracting parties fr/al] fet
:le with the court of Peterlburgh the most ad
vantageous measures to be pursued, to secure the
ucceliion to the throne of Poland in favor of the
"ioufe of the eledtor of Saxony.
4. They reserve to themielves the power of
•xchar ging part of their pre*ent or future poflef
i:ns, provided the laws of the German empire
je not thereby anyways infringed.
5. They content from the present time reci
procally to reduce their military state, as soon at
heir present connexions with foreign powers!
hall permit them to do so..
6. The king ot Pruflia promises and engages
tot to refufe his vote in favor of the archduk'
>ancis when the eledtion for a king of the R
"nans lhall take place, and never to oppose the
:rtabliihnr,ent of any of the other archdukes,
7. Mis imperial majeftv promises to employ
lis good offices with the court of Petetfburgh and
lie diet ot Puiand to induce them no longer to
ippofe the cession ol the towns of Dantzic and
» norne to Prufiia j in return to which, his Prul
hn majesty will ncgledt nothing to obtain from
he court ot London and the slates-general of the
Jniied Provinces, the modifications desired bv
iie court ot \ jenna, at rh? convention of the
-lague, relative to the Austrian Low Countries.
VIENNA, Oa. 5.
Prince Kaunitz has caused to be made known
0 the members of the diplomatic corps, that the
police having to watch a prodigious number oi
ore-gners, with whom it is impoflible for it to be
icquainted, it became indispensably neceflary that
?ach of these foreigners fliould be provided with a
-ert'.ljaate f:ern tne art'.baiiador, envoy, refldent,
Y agent of the court co which he belongs. Ail
;ho(e who fliall be unprovided with these' ccrr:fi
:ates, if they be not othcrwife well known, ffiail
be cor.fidered as persons without honest means ol
iu!>fiiic::ce, ar.d of confeq i: er.c-j expefed to all the
.nconveniencics to whish fvf;:cion 3 charaflrrs
nable.
GEORGE MEADE
HAS FOR SALE,
At his Storps on Wai.nut-Street Wharf,'•
AI EW pipes cf 3 and 4 years old bins of ex -
change Madeira WINE, <wbicb he it-ill dip
bofeof by the pipe, bogfbead or quarter cafk>
London market Madeira WIN F., 5 and 6years old;
Old Sbeny WJNE of the firft quality, by the
bogjbead or quarter tajk•
Three and 4 years old Lisbon WINE, of a fu
fjrfor quality to what is generally imported, by the
bipe, quarter eajk, or larger quantity
Choice eld Cotiiac BRANDT, by the pipe, tierce,
or larger quantity.
Afew quarter cbefts offirft quality Hyfct; TEA.
//* has j 11ft received by the Pigau, Lox Icy, mafter 9
f>om London, a few quarter calks cf old Madeira
WINE-And
By the brig Mercury, capt. Stevens, from Dub
-lin, <2 few boxes of Irijh LINENS, /tw priced
wd ivell ajjorted : a few bales cf Re I and White
FL ANNELS, avdjome GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDI ES cf the
f 'rft quality, and But Hvgtor. PORK f prime quality
He has also to difpeje cf a quantity cf dreJjcA
White Oak STAVES.
He means to keep a eonftant supply of First Gra
tify Madeira ai d Lisbon WINES, and whoever
m p leafed to favor him with their euftom, may be
iJJureeLcf being well served.
He wit through the Winter ar.d Spring, buy
undrefjed HANDSPIKES, lie is pur chafing
FLAXSEED aud BEES WAX, and will give
the bigheft Price for them.
N. B. A few Hampers cf excellent London 1
PORTER and launton ALE, just arrived and •
to be dfpofed cf. tf
~R OBE R T SMO CK,
Woollen Draper & Mercer,
Has just received by the fbip Pigou, from London,
and for sale at his Store, on the north east corner
cf Market and Third ftrects, Philadelphia,
AN ELEGANT ASSORTMENT OF
SUPERFINE and super broadcloths, in almost
every colour.
Ladies fu per fine habit cloths, in the mod fafhion
able colours.
Superfine caifimers, do.
Do. an£ super elastic flriped cloths.
Milled drabs and hunters cloths*
A variety of saucy waiftcoating, in silk, silk and.
cotton, fiik moiefK.ii), caflimers printed and
tamboured, and fuperfine striped Spanish toili
nets.
Mens black fattins. fiorentines, and silk prunellas
of superior qualites
Silk, silk and cotton, cotton and worfled hose,
afiorted.
Sattins andmantuas, a beautiful variety.
Superfine ratrinets, with a large colU&ion of bed
trimmings for cloths, See. of every quality.
Moreens, joans spinning, durants and caliman
coes.
Hairbines and camblets, &c.
9-S wide fuperfine MarleiHes quilting with bor
ders.
Marseilles bedquilts and cotton counterpanes, 9-4.
to 12-4.
Flanders bed bunts and bedtickings.
A beautiful variety of chintzes and cottons.
An elegant aflortment of yard wide furniturfc
chintzes, in beautiful colours and patterns,
with a large variety of furniture coitons.
Velveteens, velvets, corauroyj, thicksets, fancy
cords, fiockinets, royal ribs, fattinets, hair
plushes, &c. &c.
Striped and grey, twilled and plain BatH coatings.
Rose blankets aflorted.
ROBERT SMOCK has also for Sale, a great
Variety of GOODS of the best: quality in their
several kinds, lie prcfumes it is unnecefiarv to
be more particular in the enumeration, and that
it is fufficient to fay the afTortment is very gene
ral and exlenfive, confiding of almost every arti
cle in his line of business.—Being desirous of giv
ing entire fatisfadtion to those who may be plcafed
to favour him with their custom, as well
as cf meriting a continuance of those cuf
comers, whose favours he has hitherto experien
ced, he flatters himfelf the cbeapnefs of his Goods
will be the best means of efletti-ng his wilhes.
This day is PuWifhed
By CHILDS and SWAINE,
J '
In one Volume Octavo ;
Price One Dollar and a half, the small Edition,
ajid One Dollar and three quarters the large,]
T H i:
LAWS of the United States.
Collated with, and corrected by the original Rolls
in the Ofiice of the Secretary of State.
With a copions INDEX ; *or
A complete DIGEST of the LAWS ;
(Making 56 pages :)
Executed by an eminent Law Char3&er.
To obtain this ufeful and necessary Part of the
Work complete, has retarded the Publication.
This Volume comprizes the AEts cf the Three
Sejfions of the firft Congress j also, the Federal
Conftituticn, and the Trea'ixs between the United
Srates and Foreign Nations--Together with an Ap~
pendix, containing the Declare ion of lr. depend
ence, and sundry Ordinances and Resolves oj Con
%rejs under the Confederation.
Sold by Child 3 and Swaine, No- 2.39, High- 1
/Ireet, Thomas Dob/on, Jcjif,h Crukfhank, und
Robert Campbell, Philadelphia.
oSober 25.
A Jew Copies of the Report of the Secretary
of State on the fuhjed of thcCod end IVhale-
Fijheries—may be had at the office, No. 239
High-jtreet.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS AND SWAIN E,
AT THFJR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIGH .STRtET S
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA.