Vol. I.
From, Wood/all's (LondonJ Regijler.
On MONUMENTS,
Notwithstanding the num
ber of extraordinary men the French
Revolution has produced to the world,
the name of great is thought to convey
an idea too extensive to be allowed tc
more than one man, and what ought tc
be understood by the word great is ad
mirably defined by one of the Frencl
orators. It is also very much to be ad
mired, that previous to the revcrlutior
two men only were allowed the nami
of great ; thenecelTary consequence wil
be that great men, being confiderec
as they really are, very few in number
that august title will never be difputec
by their impartial cotemporaries, and i
still more disinterested posterity.
It was the opinion of Swift, that ;
nation does not give birth to moic thar
one truly great man in less than io<
years. I have the honor to think th<
lame ; and for a definition of the wore
great in its proper extensive meaning
I prefer the French orator to whom i
have already alluded.
If we allow one great man to be pro
duced in an hundred years by every ci
vilized nation upon earth, the numbe;
to be handed to a remote posterity wil
be quite fufficient to latisfy human va
nity and pride.
It may be enquired what I mean by ;
great man. I am lure my idea of ,
great man is, when his works are di
rested to the benefit of mankind, in th<
perfedlion of any human art or fcienci
irom which the prcient or future age
must derive eternal benefit ; and legiila
tors come most particularly within thi
meaning. No one can deny the autho
of the French Revolution to be a mar
of this <\<fcriptio,p. i i]Ol is al
lowed by that nation itfelf to be Mira
beau. The latest posterity must b<
benefited by the bleflings of liberty
For he has the honor to be the cause o;
the next generation being born Free
which otherwise would have beer
slaves. A greater honor cannot in m)
opinion be conferred on human nature
The French verv modestly allow the ho
nor of this blessed freedom to one man
notwithstanding his numerous coadju
tors, and this very wifely, that tli<
word great should not be confounded
which it is in this country, by bestow
ing it on such prodigious numbers, anc
for such very moderate degrees of me
rit. By thus multiplying great men
vanity countera&s its own efforts, anc
we cease to have any great men. Whet
posterity surveys the monuments i.r
Westminster Abbey, and finds them in
numerable, they must, if they take i
upon credit of monumental teftimqny
suppose that their ancestors were al
great men, without exception. But i
they go about to enquire for the work
of their illustrious ancestors, they w:l
be told that their performances, aswel
as themselves, being of a pcrifhable na
ture, have been long since buried in ob
livion, as would the monuments, bu
for the hardness anddurability ofa mar
ble. Great men's works arc not of ;
perishable nature :
" Fini/k'd writings theft and tint defy,
" The only monvmcnti zv/iich cannot die.'"
But such are not the productions of th<
fiftieth part of our monumental ancef
tors. How a man would be laughed a
if he took the name from a monumen
in the Abbey, or elsewhere, and ther
went to enquire for those ftupendou:
performances for which he was sup
posed to have that honor conferred
or rather, how would he ftarewher
informed his works were so trifling, tha
they scarcely survived the mournins
at his funeral. But these are not th<
eirors of the nation—they are theabfurd
itiesof a fewinterefted individuals, wh(
contribute to such empty foppery fron
the opinion they have of themselves
It is, as the poet fays, "a compliment that
By PHILIP FRENEAU.
MONDAY, Deci iMBER 5, 1791.
vanity pays to felf-love," in the conceii
hat they, pofleffing a similarity ol
parts, will have the fame honor con
erred*
But such a numerous aflfembly ol
;reat men levels all diftinftions ; anc 1
)0 fieri ty having feleited two or three
vorthies from the numerous groupe.
:onfigns the reft to that oblivion they
nerit, and they become all little men.
In this absurd manner hath the Ab
tty been disfigured, and now the fame
v anity lays siege to St. Paul's, that oui
iolly should be recorded in every part oJ
he metropolis.
Extraßcd from MARITIME OBSERVATIONS
Written in 1785, by Dr. Franklin.
HO \V much more "commendable
would it be, if we could give up
ihe few minutes gratification afforded
pnee or twice a day by the taste offugat
in our tea, rather than encourage the
:ruelties cxercifed in producing it. An
:minerit French moralist fays, that when
he considers the wars we excite in Afri
:a. to obtain slaves ; the numbers ne
clFarily slain in those wars ; the many
prisoners who perish at lea by sickness.
sad provisions, foul air, &c. &c. in the
traniportation, and how nany after
wards die, from the hardships of flave
ly, he cannot, look on a piece of fugai
without conceiv ing it stained withfpots
of human blood. Had he added the
consideration of the wars we make tc
take and re-take the sugar-lands from
one another, and the fleets and armies
that pcrifh m those expeditions, he
might have seen his sugar, not merely
spotted, but thoroughly dyed fear lei in
(train. It is their wars that make the
maritime powers of Europe, the inha
bitants of London and Paris, pay dear
er for sugar than those erf" Vienna, z
thousand miles from the sea; becaufc
their sugar cods not only the price they
pay for it by the pound, but all they
pay in taxes to maintain the fleets anc'
irrnies that fight for it !
PARIS, Sept. 21.
The Municipality, as the firft efforl
to aid their fellow citizens in deriving
thegreateft poflible advantage from the
new Constitution, have proposed the
following cjueftions :
1. What are the best means, within
the power of the Municipality, of exci
tineih Paris the efforts of industry. and
O ... '
encouraging in it the establishment oi
manufactures of all kinds ?
2. What are the belt means, within
the power of the municipality of pro
curing for the capital ail the advantages
which it may hope from general com
merce with refpe£t to its lituation, the
lumber and chara&er of its inhabitants,
it connexion with the departments ol
:he kingdom and with foreign nations.
For each of the two best answers, on
hefe questions, to be sent in before the
firft of February, they offer a gold me
lal of 600 livres value, and for each ol
the four next a gold medal of 200 livrcs
value.
LONDON, Sept. 18.
Ten of the repiclentatives of Paris for
the next Wiflature were chosen whrn
the last ac 'unts came away. The
whole numbei is twenty-four, and the
cleftors go on at the rate of one per day.
In other parts of the kingdom the
cleftions being less contested, proceed
with greater dispatch.
In iome instances the whole repre
sentatives of a department have been
slefted in one day.
The establishment of Justices of Peace
by the new Constitution is univcrfally
approved. As an instance, M. Riviere,
elected a justice in the diftritt of Bour
dcaux, in the course of three months
from the time of entering on his office,
had three hundred and twelve cases
brought before him. Of these he de-
cided three hundred and seven, one wa;
terminated by calling in two arbitrators
and only four came before the tribunal
as the diftrift.
The French emigrants are said to be
r p'.it into two parties. The one at the
lead of which is Conde, wishes to re
tore the old government. The other,
it the head of which is Bouillie, is foi
i modification of the new constitution,
I .'le parties hold no intercourse.
The plan of the latter party is said tc
je a pacific lyftem ; to prevent a nati
jral bankruptcy; to declare the afTignat;
part of the public debt ; to convoke the
>tates General in the ancient form :
einftate the clergy, with a proviso sot
eimburfing the holders of allignats :
he sales of church lands to be confirm
ed or annulled, as shall be thought ex-
Jedient, and if annulled, the purchasers
obe indemnified in ten years 4 to fe
jueftrate vacant benefices ; to reducc
;reat benefices ; to disarm the country
neople ; to reform the religious orders ;
0 abolish all diftin.;:ons refpe&ing eli
gibility to public offices ; to re-eftablifb
lie nobility, without pecuniary privi
eges ; and to make the States General
permanent till a perfedt consolidation.
Mr. Fawkner's ftavo&the continent
iviii be much longer than was expected.
isle will not only infpeft the treaty with
he Porte, but, it is thought, negociate
1 commercial treaty with Ruflia, upon
iberal terms to both countries. This
:rcaty was in agitation some years ago
Dut (ufpendedon accountofthe late war
it i» now undergoing some new modifi
cations, which the fucceflion of events
makes neceflary.
Prince John, the African Prince, is ar
rived here from Sierra Leona. His bu
finffs to this country appears chiefly tc
■ie Tfifpetting the llavc iraiic. He ha;
met with a very cordial reception ir
this city, and particularly among the
gentlemen who wifii for the abolitior
of /he (lave trade.
National Assembly of Francr,
September 15.
Mi Target, who had in his poflef
fion the King's letter of acceptance
moved, that it, as well as the Conftitu
tional code should be deposited in th(
archives of the allembly—Decreed.
M. Goupil moved, that as the confti
tution was now finifhed, it should be
published over the Empire with all pof
lible solemnity.
M. Ragnauld seconded the motion
with an amendment, that, after pro
claiming it in each municipality, T
Deum should be sung, and that this ce
remony should be followed with fefti
vals and public rejoicings,
M. Duport moved, that the publica
tiori of the constitution should be ac
iccompanied by a release of prisoners o
a certain description.
These proposals were adopted—the
[ast with lome modification.
In the German papers is the follow
ing letter from the Czarina to the Kins
as Sweden :
" Your Majesty may reft allured, tha
my sentiments agree with yours refpeft
ing the unfortunate Louis XVI. anc
that I sincerely lament his fate as wel
as your Majesty. I hope that our la
mentations will not be fruitlefs, and thai
we shall ma.iifeft the lively interefl
which we feel for him. The resolution
which you have made in his favour i<
worthy of your courage and of youi
magnanimity, and worthy of the fuc
ceflor of the great Guftavus. For the
fake of peace I have made some impor
tant facrifices ; and I should be willing
to make much greater, in bringing ef
fcftually to bear your glorious under
taking. I shall consider the day on
which I hear that Louis has recovered
his authority and his prerogatives, and
has forgotten his enemies, as the happi
est of my life."*
PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, Nov. 30.
A bill from the Senate, cntituled.
" An ast concerning eonfuls and vice
confuls, was read a firft second time,
and committed to a committee of tha
whole on Tuesday next.
The speaker then laid before the house
a letter from the attorney-general," re
lative to his report on the judicial sys
tem of the ynited States ; which having
been read, it was ordered thereuoon,
that so much of the order of the 9th inft.
as direftsthc attorney-general to report
to this house such further information
as he may be in poffelfon of, relative to
:he operation of the judicial system, be
iifcharged—it was also ordered, that
he committee for laid report be dip
charged, and that it be referred to Mr.
Sedgwick, Mr. Ilillhoufe, Mr. L aw
rancc, Mr. Boudinot, Mr. Kittera, Mr.
Murray, and Mr. Madison.
A petition was read from Jonathan
Haynes, for relief in consideration of a
wound received in the American ser
vice during the late war—Referred to
the Secretary at War.
Mr. Goodhue, from the committee,
prsfented a bill relative to the regifter
mg of Vessels—which being read a firft:
ind second time, was committed to a
committee of the whole, on Tuefdav
next.
Two memorials from the distillers of
rum and geneva, in the town of Provi
dence, were read, praying further revi
sion of the ast, p&Uv:<l at ihc lail leflion,
imposing duties on spirits distilled with
in the United States—Referred to the
Secretary of the Treasury.
The house then proceeded to consi
der the amendments from the commit
tee, reported yesterday, to the bill for
making compensation to widows, Or
phans, and invalids, in certain cases—
which amendments being read and de
bated on, the bill was ordered to be read
the third time to-morrow.
A message was received from the Se
nate, by Mr. Otis, acquainting the
house, that the Senate had pa (fed a bill,
sntitled, " An ast relative to the elec
:ion of a President and Vice-Prefidcnt
of the United States, and declaring the
officer who shall ast as President in cafe
of vacancies in the offices both of Presi
dent and Vice-Prefident"—to which
they desired the concurrence of the
house. Adjourned.
Thursday, December 1,
The bill making compensation to wi
dows, orphans, and invalids, in certain
cases, was read a third time, palled the
house, and sent to the Senate for their
concurrence.
The bill sent from the Senate, rela
tive to the election of a President and
Vice-President of the United States, in
cafe of vacancies, was read the firft time.
A letter was read from the Secretary
at War, inclosing his report on the pe
tition of Thomas Campbell—which was
ordered to lie on the table.
According to the order of the day,
the house resolved itfelf into com
mittee of the whole on the bill for the
relief of David Cook—Mr. Muhlen
oerg in the chair—who, after some
ime spent on the bill, reported the
fame without amendment—An amend
ment was afterwards introduced by the
house, making provision for captain
William Campbell—the bill was then
ordered to be engroflcd for a third read
ing to-morrow.
A committee was then ordered to be
appointed to prepare and bring in a
bill to explain and amend the acts which
relate to the seven years half-pay pro-
Numb, i i.mifed to the widows and orphans of of
ficers who died in the service of the Uni
ted States, and of persons who are, or have
been entitled to pensions as invalids.
Mr. Livermore, from New-Hamp
shire, laid before the lloufe a represent
ation from the legislature of that state,
relative to sundry of their citizens, in
valid soldiers of the late army, whole
claims have been barred by acts of limi
tation—Read, and referred to the com
mittee last appointed.
Petitions were then read from Mat
thias Arbrufter, Thomas Lewis, John
Satterwhite, and Christopher Schrcmer,
praying compensation for l'ervices ren
dered, &c. in the army, daring the war
—Alio, a petition of sundry seamen,
who served in the navy of the United
States, during the war, praying to re
ceive certain arrears of pay, from
which they have been hitherto exclu
ded by the operation of thea&sof limit
ation. Referred to the Secretary at War.
A petition of Peter Hcifter was
read, praying to receive from the Uni
ted States the amount of an oiiginal
certificate, itfued in the state of South-
Carolina, in the name of Ezekiel Mal
phus, for his services as corporal and
iergcant in the army, during the war,
and for which the petitioner paid a va
luable consideration to the executors of
laid Malphus—Referred to the Secreta
ry of the Treasury. Adjourned.
Friday, Dec. 2.
An engrofled bill for the relief of Da
vid Cook was read the third time, and
palled, under the title of, " An ast foi
the relief of David Cook and Thomas
Campbell.
A bill, refpefting the " cleftion of :
Prefidcnt and Vice-President of the
United States, and declaring the offrcei
who shall ast as President, in cafe o!
vacancies in the offices both of Presi
dent and Vice-President," wasreadth;
second time, and referred to a commit
tee of the whole on Wednesday next.
The petitien of Nathaniel Lucas
which had been ordered to lie on th<
table,was referred to the Secretary a
War.
A memorial and petition of the Soci
ety of United Brethren for propagatins
the gospel among the- Heathen, weri
read, praying, that the rcfolve of Con
nrefs of the third of September, 1788
making a grant of certain lands for th<
benefiTof the said society, may be com
firmed, and warrants issued to iurve)
the fame—Referred to the committee
appointed to bring in a bill to eftablift
offices for granting vacant lands withir
the limits of the United States.
According to the order of the day.
the house, in committee of the whole,
Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair, took intc
consideration the bill making appro
priations for the support of governmem
tor the year 1792.
After iome debate on the appropria
tion bill, the committee rose, reportec
progrels therein, and asked leave to fn
again. It was then refolvcd, that the
further consideration of said bill be post
poned till Monday next.
A member from MafTachufetts laic
before the house a representation from the
general court of that state, refpefting
the cases of sundry of their citizens, in
valid soldiers in the late army, whose
claims for pay have been barred by the
acts of limitation —Referred to the com
mittee appointed to bring in a bill tc
explain and amend the atts relative tc
the seven years half-pay promised tc
widows and orphans of officers, wlic
died in the United States' service, and
of persons who were entitled to pen
sions as invalids.
On motion of Mr. Laurance, order
ed, that the treasurer's accounts of the
receipts and expenditures of public mo
nies, laid before this house, be publilh
ed ;' and that 300 copies be printed.
Mr. Gerry made a motion to this
effect. that on the third monday of eve
ry anr.u?l session of Congress, it fhali
be the duty of every officer, entruftec
with the application of public monies
to lay before this house a particular ac
count of the items of such expenditures
&c. which motion was read and laid or
the t^ble.
Mr. Fitzftmons moved a rclolutioi
to this effect, that a committee be ap
pointed to examine and report upor
the state of the treasury department
and that such committee be annually ap
pointed on the second Monday of ever)
feffion —ordered to lie on the tabli.
Adjourned to Moad»y, JI 0 clock.
[ Travjlations frcn: French Papers.]
DIJON (Fiance) Sept. 6.
The following address was prefehted.
a few days ago, to the citizens of Lau
sanne, in Switzerland, by the society
of Friends to the Conjlitution, rcfiding is
Dijon.—
Brethren and Friends,
" WHILE the French frontiers ir
general seem inimical to the rising ge
nius of liberty in our country, it is wit}
no small falisfa&io-n that we learn yoi
participate with us in the joy refultinj
from the progress daily and rapid!)
making, in emancipating the nati-cr
from the fangs of despotism. Indeed,
we had long fufpe&ed that you hac
French hearts concealed in Swiss bo
ibms. You now lay them open to pub
lie view by the intercftyou take in om
glorious revolution. As for the exilce.
aristocrats and retainers to delpotilm
they are too contemptible either ioi
your or our notice. It is true, tfye\
have fetters ready to manacle us, ant
they are prepared by every base' art tc
reitorc the jcebtn that has departed fron
Judah —but it is too late—Let them ad
var.ee, and they will be convinced wha
a free people is capable of. But wha
has France to fear ? To the south w:
lave the Pyrennean mountains, whicl
form an eternal barrier, inaccessible tc
he armies of tyrants—To the nor'.!
ind weft we have the ocean, whof<
waves are our everlasting bulwark—ot
jr.e iidc only are we weak—and then
:he manly hearts of freemen shall pre
vent the inroads of (laves and despots.
Your hearts and ours, brave citizen:
if Lausanne, are united by the most fa
:red ties—Receive then our profellion
sf regard, gratitude, and fraternal" at
achment—May we not hope, that th;
ime is approaching, when we, in pn
;urn, may congratulate you On you:
Aiccefs in elTeftinga revolution in Swit
'.e.riand similar to ours ? Is it not true
that a cruel aristocracy is at this mo
r.ent.grinding you to powder, and in
"ulting you with the idea of liberty a
:he moment th..t she is riveting he
rhains about your bodies—Feel butt!i>
inclination to crush this monster, ant
, ou {hall find, in reality, that the FTencl
tre your friends and brethren."
To this thefur/y Republican, Baron Erlach, Bail
ly of Maujanu'c, r< t »/u' l/ie JQ/toU Wg ahjirtT.\
To the Municipality of JSijon* .
Gentlemen,
HEREWITH I have the honor t<
nclole to you a paper, entituled, " Ai
ddrefs to the citizens of Lausanne, bj
lie society of Friends to the Conftitu
ion, residing in Dijon." My superior;
iave commanded me to forward thi:
ddrefs to you, without delay, no
loubting, but you will pointedly mani
eft your indignation against an effuiior
ending to sow the feeds of difcore
imongft the people of Lausanne, ant
xcite infurrc£tions through Switzer
and at large.
But, if, contrary to our hopes ahe
vifhes, you forbear to puniflr the au
horsoffuch inflammatory papers as the
nclofed and thereby tacitly approve then
niidious attempts, in such cafe, I have
irders to inform you, that in future eve
y inhabitant of Dijon, presuming ;t
ome within the Swiss bounds, will be
rcated as a rebel and a traitor.
I have the honor to be, &c.
Le Baron D'Erlach.
The Municipality ti toting the Bonn's litter wit/
ncglett, the Fnends to the Conjlitution replied a.
follows. ]
To the Bailly of Lausanne.
I T is easy to fee, moriiieur Bailly
hat ever since the king was arreftedot:
lis flight from the kingdom, the joy ol
he citizens of Laulanne on that occa
ion, was by no means agreeable to you
:nd some of your brethren, in authority
It is perfectly natural, however, that
10th the senate of Berne and yourfelf
hould be chagrined at such an event
tnd this confirms us in an opinion we
iave for some time entertained, thai
he greater part of the European fove
eigns and ruling powers confidcr the
French Revolution in a very differenl
?oint of view from their fubje£ts. Thh
onfideration, nevertheless, makes u:
no re than ever in love with it.
Tell your masters, monsieur Bailly
hat the people of France acknowledge
10 masters. * The government and the
people are fynor.imous terms, and afi
in ccr.ceit for the ciUblilhir.ent, anc
—I
srefervation of liberty, vvhofe reign,
■hey hope, will prove perpetual.
When, instead of replying to the
Friends of the Constitution,' you ad-
Jreffed the municipality of Dijon, we
fuppole the idea did not occur to you,
:hat the municipality is "chosen by the
fuffrages of the people, and that they
would of consequence take part with
the people, rather than blame thein lor
rongratulating their neighbours on the
revolution in France.
Presume not, therefore, in future, to
write to our municipality to punish us
r or congratulating our lriends in Lau
sanne. It is miierable policy in you,
00, to advise them to fall upon mea
ures to prevent our addrefles in future.
Do you imagine that the wretched
Mercenaries, lu: king on the frontiers of
•'rancc, will be able to impede the pro
;rel"s of reason and free government P—
iou muftt not conlidsr us as fufpiopus
harafters when we pay you a viht.—
tVe are too well known here to be ful
;cftcd—Come over the French line,
nonlieurßailly, and deign to look at us
—We are amply provided with every
icceffary, and you ihall be well received.
'lake care how you interrupt the
;ood understanding which ought forc
;er to subsist between the Republic of
ierne and ourselves. The French, it
S true, do not wish for war ; neither
lo they fear it. They can, 'if occasion
equires, ast in a new charatter, that of
jhilofophers militant. With one hand
hey can level tyrants in the dult, and
with the other they can illume the
minds of nations—This mode of war-
Fare is indeed, new ; but we believe,
will eventually prove too hard for the
aid European tactics.—l'offibly, yoi
may not know that among a people whe
have taken, the monarchical power intc
: heir own hands, the citizens confidei
themselves upon a level with all power:
whatever; we are therefore with affec
tion truly fraternal,
Monsieur Bailly,
Your friends and humble lervants.
The Members of the Society of Friend:
of the Constitution at Dijon.
% {Signed) Pressevoe, Prcfident.
Viardot and Bernard, Secretaries.
Dijon, 19 Aug. 1791.
(The third year of French Liberty.)
PARIS, September 6.
The Bourdeaux chamber of commerce has im
portunatelv demanded ihe recall of the decree
granting liberty and equal privileges with th
whiles to the Mulattoes in St. Domingo. Thi
is diie£tly contrary to the opinion of the citizen
of Bourdeaux, who in their petition on this sub
jest, voluntarily offered to embark in quality 0
loldiers, to compell the coloniUs to comply will
the decree of Mav 15th. The municipality am
friends of the conllitution wished to prevent th
letting out of the messenger that had been en
gaged to carry the addreTs of the chamber c
commerce to the National Aifembly ; but th
mercantile and nav;il bodies urged Ins departure
considering, no doubt, that the commercial inter
efts had at lead as good aright to petition, as thi
club conftitutionifts.
An Addrefsfrom the Merchants and Captains of th
Port of Havre dt Grace, to the National AJftm
bly of France.
GENTLEMEN,
Since the publication of your d°creeof Ma;
15, the merchants andcaptains of this port trad
ing to the French colonies in the Wefi-lndies, o
who have connexions there, have not failed con
llantly to represent to you the impossibility o
your new mode of colonial government beinj
carried into execution.— We arc sorry to fai
that the clamours of malevolence, ignorance, o
intrigue have ftifled our just complaints. Con
vinced in our own minds of the lumous conle
quencesof this decree, we have therefore beei
. end rained to lament in filcnce the inefficacy o
our address.
Happy (hould we find ourselves, to be de
ceived in our apprehensions of ill, but, alas
what we foreboded has really come to pass.
Inthetownof Cape-Francais, and in all thi
northern parts ofSt. Domingo, upon the firft in
tt'llLence of this ill judged decree, rage and in
dignation took possession of the minds of thi
white inhabitants ; party quarrels and difference
of opinion iofiantly ceased, aid all were unitcc
in the co'.nm .n cause —they tmiverfally agrcec
to facrifice their lives a thouland times, and be
buried in the ruins of their unfortunate country,
rather than remain passive fpettators of their in
dividual defltuftion.
We give you, Gentlemen, anexaftcopy ofthe
expressions we have received of ihe feelings ol
the inhabitants—do not suppose, then, that the
difcontentj of the colonifls will be confined tc
empty exclamations and vain menaces.
We tremble when we tell you, that a motior
has been made in the General Aflcmbly to hoifl
the Englilh flag, in the island of St. Domingo—
and the motion was highly applauded.
In this, their season of terror and calamity, the
treasuries of the ifiand are flint, commerce is in
•crtupted, payments are at an end, every citizen
las become a soldier, and preparations are every
where made for vigorous warfare.
At the Cape, the batteries of fort Picolet have
iccn manned to repulse those who fhull be so har
iy as to come there with their doctrines of Na
lipnal liberty and philanthropy—doilrines,atonce
(oductive of blood and of cruelty.
The citizens, the governmental bodies, the re
gular troops ; all have but one mind ; one loal :
hey are ready to curse the connexions that ally
hem to France; and in the moments ol defpera
:ion, loudly exclaim, that the parent country is
he mother of cruelties.
And thus it is, gentlemen, that by giving way
;o refined notices and impracticable systems, the
lation is upon the point of losing forever no in
:onftdeiable number of its moll faithful citizens.
The event will bt, that we lhall be compelled
o conquer our own colonies, and cut the throats
if our brethren through a national predile&ion for
•■.rtapbf/ual idea;. Need we mention, that the
efentment of a powerful body of citizens must
peedily be wreaked upon fom: of the French fea
lortswho are advocates of this falfe philanthropy;
the emancipation of the Negroes and Mulattoes
nth: Weil Indies] but, if they are real philan
hropifts, why do they refufe to pay their debts to
he planters, and fend back the vessels that have
leen so long waiting for returns!
Enlightened as you are by calamitous experi
ence, suspend, v/e befceeh you, the execution of
his your impolitic decree, relative to liberating the
jeople of colour. Bo patient—do not precipitate
natters of this kind, till the minds of men are be
onie more ripe for receiving the lessons of philo
ophy, than they are at present.
We would fain hope that France will not, (like
he Spaniards of the fifteenth century) carry fire
md sword into the peaceable islands of the Indies,
lierely to eftablilh fantafticalopinions --Her laws
will one day govern the universe, but their wif
iom only will cause them to be univerfaily adopt
:d,--not a propensity to violence.
Signed by two hundred and seventy citizens
of Havre, merchants and mariners.
Havre, Augufl 26, 1791.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
CONSOLIDATION.
MUCH has leen faic], and not without rea
son, against a consolidation of the States
nto one government. Omitting lesser objeflions,
wo consequences would probably flow front furli
r change in our political system, which juflify
he cautrons used againll it. Fi'jl, it would be
mpoflible to avoid the dilemma, of either relin
juilhing the present energy and responsibility of
1 Jingle executive magiflrate, for feme plural fub
[litute, which by dividing so great a trust might
eflon the danger of it ; or differing so great an ac
-umulation of poweis in the hands of tat offi
:er, as might by degrees transform him into a
monarch. The incompetency of one Legifla
ure to regulate all the various objefls belonging
0 the local governments, would evidently force
1 transfer of many of them to the executive de
partment; whilst the encreafing splendour and
umber of its prerogatives supplied by this source,
night prove excitements to ambition too power
cl for a sober execution of the eleflive plan,
md consequently strengthen the pretexts for an
hereditary designation of the magiflrate. Second,
,vere the date governments abolished, the fame
"pace of country that would pioduce an undue
growth of the executive power, would prevent
hat ccntroul on the Legislative body, which is
.ffential toafaithful discharge of its trull, neither
he voice nor the sense of ten or twenty millions
jf people, spread through so many latitudes as are
omprehended within the United States, could
•vet be combined or called into effect, if depriv
d of ihofe local organs, through which boih can
iow be conveyed. In such a (late of things, the
mpoffibility of afling together, might be fuc
xedtd by the incflxacy of partial expreflions o£
he public mind, and this a; length, by a univer
sal fllejice and insensibility, leaving the whole
government 10 thai JtlJdireEltd courje, which, it
null be owned, is the natural propensity of
:very government.
But if a consolidation of the dates into on
lovernment be an event so juflly to be avoided,
it is not lcls to be delired, on the other hand, that
1 consolidation (liould pievail in their interefis
ind affetlions ; and this too, as it fortunately hap
pens, forihe very reasons, among others, which
Lie agamd a governmental consolidation. For, in
:he fnft place, in proportion as uniformity is
found to prevail in the interelU and fentimenis
ufthe several dates, will be the practicability ct
iccommodating Legijlative regulations to them,
ind thereby of withholding new and dangerous
prerogatives from the executive. Again, thegrea'-
r the mutual confidence and affetlion of ad
larts of the Union, the more likely they will be
o concur amicably, or to differ with moderation,
n the ele£live designation of the chief magiflrate ;
and by such examples, to guard and adorn the vi
al principle of our republican confiituuon.
Ladly, the lefsthe supposed difference of inter
;fls, and the greater the concord and confidence
ihroughout the great body of the people, the
more readily mud they sympathize with each
other, the mpte seasonably can they interpcf: acommon mariifeflation cf their fentimcnts, the
itiore certainly will they take the alarm at ufur.
pation or oppression, and the more effe&ually
will they covjo/idateihtir defence of ihe public
liberty.
Here theh is a proper objc& presented, both tc
those who are mod jealously attached to the sepa
rate authority rcferved to the states, and to thofc
who may be more inclined to contemplate the peo
ple of America in the light of one nation, .Let
the former continue to watch against every en
croachment, which might lead to a gradual cbn
folidation cf the states into one government. Let
the latter employ their utmost zeal, by eradicating
local prejudices and mistaken rivalftiips, to confol"
iclate the affairs of the states into one harmonious
interest ; and let it be the patriotic study of all, to
maintain the various authorities established by our
complicated fyflem, each in its refpe&ive condi
tional fphcre; and to erecfb over the whole, one
paramount Empire of reason, benevolence and
brotherly affedion.
Philadelphia, Dec. 3.
PHILADELPHIA,
December 5.
By the brig Betsey, Capt. RmTel, which arrived
at this port on Friday last in nineteen days fron:
Cape Francois, we are informed that no materia
change had taken place, at the time he left it
from the accounts received by former arrivals
The Negroes were proceeding as usual in ravaging
the Island, and burning and destroying the fugai
plantations, and no proipe<3 to the whites of either
accommodation or conquest, unleis backed by a
considerable number of troops from abroad, ol
which there was 110 appearance when the above
vtflel left the Cape, although many a wjihful look
was thrown out for their arrival.—The report
was not authenticated, of the Spaniards having gi
ven the Negroes affillance, as intimated in some
former advicev : The infurresion rather appear
ed to have been the effect of long premeditation,
the florcs of gunpowder, &c. being collected im
perceptibly, before any suspicions of infurre&ion
were entertained, —American produce was low ;
fuperfine flour about thirty-two {hillings this cur
rency per barrel, and pork gl. 15s. per barrel—
cadi scarce, and the produce of the island high, in
conference of the fcarcity.—lt was cxpected
that exportation would entirely cease in a short
time, the sugar works being almost universally at
a {land for waht of labourers.
I .ate accounts from the country about the Mi
ami and Muflcingum rivers, mention exceeding
heavy rains to have fallen in thofc parts from the
middle of September, to October, such as have
not been known since the settlement of that part
us the United States.
F.xtracl of a letterfrom Pitjburgh November 18.
" Having returned some time since from the
town of Marietta, I mufl own to vOu, that while
there, 1 participated fully in the surprize, with
v.hich all travellers are flruck at the view of the
lemains of those immense fragments of Indian
antiquity, that are still seen at the junflion of the
JVlufkingum and Ohio rivers. From the vari
ous relations I had formerly heard of these rem
nanls of antiquity, 1 had been willing to persuade
myfelf that they were only the sports of nature,
and that imagination might have formed mole
hills into pyramids and walls fifty or sixty feel
high. Ido allure you my opinion was wholly
changed upon my late survey, and I am now
convinced from a view of the Mufkingum works,
and accounts of othcis farther weft, that nations
mull once have existed in these interior parts ol
America almost as superior to those we call the
aboriginal Indians, in the art of war, as we are ai
the present day superior to the fame people, sup
posing them deftiiute of fire arms, and confined
10 their bows and darts.
" From any thing that I could fee, these grand
remnants of the labours of the ancients of this
country may be of thiee or four thousand years
{landing. Certain it is, the present Indians can
give no rational account, of the authors of such
works, but evidently deviate into fable, whene
ver they pretend to talk on the fubjeft.—As to
ourselves, we alio are only of yejterday, and know
nothing.—We may rationally luppole, however,
that the revolutions in the history of man on this
continent, must bear some analogy to what we
know has been the cafe in Europe and Aft.i.
At certain periods of time the northern nations,
of the old world, being more robust, hardy, en
terprizing and bold, as well as urged on by the
powerful incentive of poverty, have always over
run those to the southward, and having incor
porated themselves with the vanquilhed, at
length become as effeminate arid cowardly as the
others, and then been conqueied again in their
turn by northern invaders.
" But at the period referred to in America,
when these works were raised, a total extirpation
of the civilized must have taken place ; valour
and {kill must have been overpowered by num
ters, and the Hyperborean barbarians, like an
iirefiftable torrent must have carried all before
them. The numerous tombs that are seen in
the remains of this ancient fortrefs at the Muf
kingum confluence with the Ohio, may not im
probably contain the bones of those, who, while
by their superior {kill in fortification they repel
led the enemy from their town, yet at length
fell victims to hunger and want of supplies ol
food, from which they were cut off by their in
vaders —Never could a better place have beer
chosen for defence than this, even supposing th<
besieged without artillery; and it is not natura
ofuppofe that a nation, merely barbarous, erra
:ic, and without the ufeof iron, could have raif
-d such prodigious ftruttures as these, the granc
limenfions of which are as follow—a bread worl
ibout fifty feet in height, and increasing gradu
tily in thickhef> to the bale, where it is fifty yard
n diameter. This breastwork is near two hun
J red and fifty yards in circumferrence. I fhal
letail some other curious particulars, relative tc
hefe works, in a future letter."
'lutkenlic Intelligence cf frejh Dijlurftances amoni
the Creek Indians.
The public have been informed, by r.umerou
)aragraphs extracted from the London papers
hat a Mr. Bowles arrived in England from Ame
ica, in the coiirfeof the year 1790, with fevera
Indians belonging to some of the southern tribe
—That the said Bowles, and Indians, had receiv
:d countenance and fuppcrt, to a certain degree
m.d that they failed from England, during th
ourfe of the last summer, enriched with pre
ents, for the Bahama IflandS.
It now appears, that the said Bowles, after ai
iving at the Bahamas, failed for India River, f
ailed, lying on East Florida, and thence pro
ceded to that part of the Creek country inhn
:ited by the Seminclies, where he arrived in th
month of September last.
That at the time of his arrival, the Creeks! wer
preparing to execute the treaty, made betwee
:hem and the United States, at New-York, ii
&ugufti79o. They had chosen the Chiefs ti
ittend at the Rock-Landing 011 the firft of Oc
icber, the lime slated for running the boundar
ines mentioned in the treaty —The White Bin
ring of the Cufitahs being of this commiflion.
Bowles's appearance however at that crifis-*
he prefects he brought with and his boh
tfTertions, caufcd great agitations and hefitatioi
imong the ignorant part, and of course amonj
he mass of the Creeks.
Although it appears that a considerable por
ion of the upper Creeks, and indeed all the rel
>edable Chiefs, were for running the line, not
vithftanding the delusions of Bowles, it is pre
umed that he is an impofior —But, he pretends
4 he has powers from the Biitifhr government t<
:onclude a treaty with the Creeks —The basis o
vhich (ball be a revocation, on their part, of th<
reaty with the United States, and a guarantee o
ill their lands "
He has fpiead reports, that he has three {hip:
oaded with goods, arms and ammunition, ant
:annon —that if the Creeks will permit him, h<
vill efrablifh a fort, and trading houses, atwhicl
he Creeks (hall be supplied with goods of al
ons, upon better terms than ever they have been
ind that he had fix thousand men, in the islands
eady to support him.
That he would wiite to Georgia, and preven
he lines being run, and he accordingly has writ
en to the Commissioners, who were waiting a
he Rock-Landing, expe£Vmg the Creek Chiefs
vhich letter is dated at " Ufachees, O&ober 26
.791," and signed, " General Wm. A. Bowles
lire£ior of alFairs for Creek nation." In thi
etter, and in his general declarations, he asserts
hat Alexander M'Gillivrav has deceived the In
lians in the treaty made at New-York; but, tha
le is willing to form a treaty with the Unite<
itates in behalf of the Creek nation, and declare
hat the former treaty (ball not be executed.
The Indians, diflracied by his arts, have en
reated the United States to wait until tin
pring, before the boundary ihall be marked, ani
f Bowles, whom they style the u lying captain,'
hall then turn out an impoilor, they will attenc
tnd run the boundary lines without further dif
iculty.
It appears that Ivlr. M'Gillivray has faithfully
tdheredtothcintei cllsof the United States, warm
y recommending that the line fbould be run a
he time appointed, and that Bowles's falfchood
hould be entirely dilregarded —Indeed, his 1m
>ortance, and lite, probably depend on Bowie:
>eing driven out of the nation.
A considerable detachment of the troops ol
he United States, and Mr. Elicott the surveyor
ind three refpefciable Commissioners from tht
late of Georgia, were afTembled punctually a
he Rock-Landing, 011 the Oconee, the firtt o
October, and they waited lor the Creek chief:
tntil the beginning of November, when the)
lifpaired of the business being effedted this season
AN idea, firft, we believe, (fay the Londot
nonthly reviewers,) suggested by DoOor Frank
in, and since improved upon by the miniilers 0
he Empress of Ruflia, is like to become mattei
»f considerable investigation in this country
hat, as mercantile intercourse is the basis cl
wealth to modern nations, that therefore in time
»f war, the arms of the belligerent powers fhoulc
>e dire&ed againfl their proper object, the of
ending state, and the property of individual:
onfidered as sacred, particularly in cases of na
ral captures—What is light in morals is ofter
vfong in politics; which, considering things ir
he outline, and mankind in the aggregate can
lot flop at small improprieties, nor private inju
res, where a public end is in view. War is fly
ed by some, a neccfTary evil; perhaps it
iave been better exprefled, an unavoidable evil;
or, there being no tribunal before one
late can arraign another, each snatches up it;
irms, force decides right, and this is the law ol
ftture by which the claims of na ions are deter
nined. In such contests, individuals are noi
nuch the better for being spared by the enemy j
'or, if refpeft be paid by an enemy to private
jroperty, while the slate is reduced to extremity,
t will drain its fubjeds for supplies, as long a!
hey can furnifh any : So that the quefiion is re
duced to this alternative, whether we shall dif
tress a people in the RrO mOnnce, or ?t fcond
land—Politics and morals will unite in deciding,
:ha'. if a people arc to be diilrefffcd, the quickeil
modes of distress, will put the fpecijieft end to a
war; for popular clamours tend to pcace : It
war is,a jaeceffaiy evil, and to be dircfted
igainft the ruling power ol a Hate, princes fliould
decide their quarrels by the judicial combat, or
3y duel. If tile live; ofcfubje&s are surrendered
up to slaughter till t he weaker date can raise no
more, is it lets than mockery to fay, kill the peo
ple c.s fall as you can, but Ipare their property !
Fb? diftin£tion betweem armed and unarmed is
lolt in the reflexion, that the commercial class
support and animate the military class. It has
been observed, that were the seizing of mercan
tile vcflels in time of war, universally abolished,
it would make no alteration as *o the compara
tive flrength of the contending powers; and it
would place them on an equal footing with such
as might 1 appen to be at peace. At present, the
Utter enrich themfelvts at their expence : they
snatch their trade out of their hands: they sup
ply them at a high price with thole very articles,
with which, if their trade were fieej they might
at a much cheaper rate iup'ply ihemfelvcs, to the
pjotra&ion of hostilities, and greater deftrufction
ps lives.—To leave an enemy's fubje£ta in cafe
and security is to preserve the sinews of war ia
fu"H vigO-, and at the fame time to restrain their
exertions. It is found, in the inflance of gun
powder, that to accelerate the intention of hos
tilities, is to render war less deflru&ive, and to
save lives; but, to drag on a dilatory war, cramp
ed by discriminations, like law-suits, would oper
ate inversely. War is too flagrant a violation
of all social obligations, to submit to moral re
flations ; but if ever the politics of Europe, 01
the law of nations should be so far improved by
general consent, as that national dilpiites could
be referred to national arbitration, and the
flrength of the whole be applied to enforce sub
mission, all necessity for vain efforts to regulate
violence by critical diftiu&ions, would happily
vanifli.
IT has long been matter of complaint, that the
large proportion of low, moifl, and drowned
lands in the Delaware (late has been produ£live
Dt several diseases, which in a great rtieafure have
baffled thv pOwcr of medicine, and proved pecu
liaily fatal to infants and childrert under seven
3r eight years of age. The medical society in
Delaware, taking into consideration the periodi
cal yearly havock made by distempers incideni
to the situation and foil of that slate, hasfketched
the outlines of a plan for invefligating the nature
of such diseases, and, if poflible, counteracting
their effe&s, upon the principles of reason anc
philosophy. Toaccomplifh this interefling de
ligO, they consider no plan so likely to succeed,
as ihe establishment of a fund to defray the ex
pence of Prizc-dijfotations, both at home and
from abroad, in the invelhgation of the nature
and cure of thefc complaints. —In difcuflingthis
question, however, they premise, that no atten
tion will be paid to doctrjnes founded on mere
hypothetical reasoning; facls and experiments
being the only ground, on which they can con
sent to draw conclufions—lt will be required,
too, in those who (hall contend for the annual
pike cn this fubjeft, that the morbid cau£e be
analyzed— that its precise origin, conflitution and
qualities be ascertained ; as well as its mode ol
introduction, and operation on the human lyf
lem. Upon this plan it may be hoped that some
power, deduced from the substance or juices of
ihe vegetable creation, will be discovered, tc
:ountera& the baneful effe&s of solar heat upoi:
iiftmid putrefaction. The dominion of man
3ver matter is inconteflible, and.although Naturs
unwillingly discloses her arcana, yet through ar
dour and ingenuity of experiment, she is conti
nually fuffering her mysteries to cfcape.
The fubfeription book for opening the canal
and luck navigation between the Schuylkill and
Susquehanna livers, was opened at the flate-houic
in s this» city on ThyrfJay last. Upwards oi fiv«
hundred ihares were fubicribcd for on the fame
day. It may be projer to observe on this occa
'ion, that no country in the world has ad
vantages with America, m general, for improving
Lhc natural inland navigation by canals. The Eu
ropeans have had to contend with obilacles incom
parably greater in this reipedt, than any we art
acquainted with for forming a junction betweer
:he m'oft considerable bays and rivers of the United
Stares; as an instance, we will copy a (ketch ol
:J:at iununfe work, in Fiance, called the canal ol
Langueduc :
The (anal of Languedoc is the most stupendous
work of art in Europe.-— The projedt originatec
tmong the Roman's who abandoned it as imprac
licaoie. Monf. Riquet- the enterprize in
1666, and completed it in 1600, surmounting eve
y obitacle in a broken uneven country, carrying
lit works over an-d through mountains, and ever
emoving rivers, which lay in his way, by aque-
Ju&s. Where the canal is carried through
mountains it is curigufly arched over with fret
tone. Decending towards t/ie ocean there are 15
ocks, and towards the Mediterranean 45, as wet
as 47 aquedu&s and 8 bridges. Near Beziers there
ire 10 locks which have a pretty effed down a de
cent of 936 feet, and 66 feet from the level above.
This amazing work cost upwards of 2 million:
of crowns, half of which was paid by the king
[t communicates to the Mediterranean with th<
Bay of Biscay, palling by Bourdeaux & Montpe
ier, being upwards of 150 miles in length, an.
;>f the utmost utility especially in time of war, a:
liars carrying 60 tons burthen keep up a fafe anc
an easy inland water communication.
Our advices from the vveftward, (fays a Win
:hcfter paper of Nov. 19) are up to the 26th ult.
l hey state that the main army had advanced 62
niles from fort Washington ; that General St.
CUii's principal oljcdt appeared bs the efta
bli&liig rtror.j Fori? In the Indian country, to
jvcr awe fucli of the neighboring tribes as may be
inclined'to hollility ; that the General's force acid
ralents ate so refpe'fctable; that ic may be justly ex
pelled, he will effiOtially aofwer the public ex
peditions—that it is rather improbable, the hof
ti !e Indians will meet ill fucb numbers, as to occa
lion any serious concert j that, on the contrary, it
s probable, th»t as he carries ihe olive-branch in
)ne band, and the sword in the other, that the
campaign will eOalilifn i firnri peace with the un
fortunate hatives of America.
At a meeting of the Subscribers to the Nation
al Manufactory on Monday iaft at Trenton, the
following gentlemen were chosen Dire&ors :
Thomas Lowrey, George Lewis,
John Bajatdi Btnjimin Walker,
LJifha Boudinot, John Dewhurft,
Archibald Mercer, Nicholas Low,
Moore Fur man* Royal Flint,
John Neilfon, Alexander M'Comb.
William Duer>
'The following paragraphs appeared in a late French
paper (Gazette Univerfelle)
R O M E* August 15.
On Thursday last, after dinner, his Holineft
the Pope paid a vific to the convent of Domini
cans. He was received at the gate by the princi
pal of that order, and his chief officers. _ He then
kneeleil down and prayed before the high altar,
after which he looked at the body of St. Domi
nique, the founder of the Dominicans. Having
("pent some time with these brave defenders of the
church, he returned to the QuitinaL —France is
the perpetual fubjedt of conversation in Rome :
all eyes,' all ears, are turned towards that king
dom, and not a moment pafles without hopes of
hearing of a counter-revolution being eftedted.
Such zealous adherents to the French National
Aflemblv, as reside here, are every rainuts disap
pearing, for fear of arrert, so that the only French
men now to be seen in the Greets are some Bishops
and titled r.obkjfe without money, who are waiting
a change of affairs in their favour. In Naples the
French anti-revolutionists are very numerous—the
ladies particularly so—who publish their principles
by large neck-handkerchiefs, stamped with a va
riety of ariftocratical symbols, such as lillies,
crowns, and sceptres."
The Couht de Merci Argenteau, (fay a Brus
sels p3per) has proceeded on his journey to Eng
land. The French refugees will have it that his
errand is to persuade the King of Britain to exert
himfelf in favor of a couhter-revolution in France.
It is the folly of these people to imagine that the
whole world is to be turned upside down to gratify
their whimsical fancies. The truth of the matter
is, the Counts* business in England is to vifitthe
principal manufactories, and become acquainted
with the various ufeful arts cultivated in that
country.
ATHy (Auflrian Netherlands) Aug. 25.
The life that the French exiles lead here is
much of a piece with that at Brufiels, Or in their
garrisons. The greater part of them are really
objedts of pity. Mcft of them have no othrer bed
than. Xxroe flieaires. at\ ftxaw thrown into a cellar,
and not a few of them are reduced to the neceflit.y
of eating ammunition bread. Although this kind
of life has some resemblance to the military, ic
does not seem to agree with their stomachs j—
They have loft all confidence in their leaders, and
the far greater part are destitute of arms, altho*
they have long promifej to them.
The bl/hop of Sorrento (a city eighteen miles
south of Naples) has just publiflied a book, in
which he proves, that the Rornifh priests, like
those of the Greek church, ought to be re-inftat-«
ed in the natural privilege of marrying, and that
the celibacy of the Roman priesthood is the work
of state policy. A married priest (fays he) would
be mod likely to conlid er his own temporal inter
ests and those of his fellow citizens, as having (omer
jflinity—a conlideration that ever had great
weight with the Popes, who, in former ages, had
the vanity to aspire after universal monarchy.
Meteorological Observations.
November 1791.
D. 11. Bar. Ther. Wind, Weather
Monday, 28. 7 30. 033 s. w. Cloudy.
2 29. 9 45 do. Rain.
Tut/day, 29.730. 1 36 N.w. fair.,
2 30. 75 46 do. ditto.
Wtdnefday, 30. 7 30. 15 31 n. e. Fair.
2 30. 1 47 do. liazy.
Thursday, 7 29. 849 e. Cloudy,
Dec. 1. 229. 5 63 s. e. Rain.
Friday, 2. 729.65 43 s. w. Fair.
2 29. 8 40 w.s.w ditto.
Saturday, 3. 730.35 27 w. Fair.
2 3 0, 437 n.w. ditto.
Sunday, 4. 7 30. 426 n.w. Fair.
2 : 30. 338 do. Cloudy.
PRICE or STOCK.
Funded Debt*
Six per cents, per JT. - . 22/. to
Three per cents, ... 12/6 to 12/8
Deferred fix per cents, - iij\ to jih.
Unfunded Debt.
Final settlements, - . i 9 y6. t0 20/.
Indents, - - . - * ji/6.
Bank fciipts, - - - . 144 dollar s
This Day are publijhed,
SERMONS,
Historical and Charafteriflical:
By WILLIAM LINN, D. D.
One of the Minijlers of the Reformed Protejlani
Dutch Church, in the city of New-York.
Sold by T. DOBSON 6? R. CAMPBELL,
[Price Three Quarter* of * Dollar.JI'er the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
MODERN DEVOTION.
TO church I went
With good intent,
To bear Sangrado preach and pray j
But objefls there
Black, brown, and fair,
Turn'd eyes and heart a different way.
Miss Patty's fan,
Miss Moliy's man
"With powder'd hair and dimpled check,
Miss Delia's eyes,
That once made prize
Of FopLng, with his hair so fleck.
Embroidered gowns,
And play-house tunes
Eftrang'd all hearts from heav'n too wide :
1 felt most odd,
This house of God
Should all be flutter, pomp, and pride.
Now, pray be wife,
No prayei j will rife
To heaven—where hearts are not sincere :
No chdrc'n was made
"For Cupid's trade,
Then why these arts of ogling here ?
Since time dratfs nigh
When you and I
At church mull claim the sexton's care J
Leave piide at home
Whene'er you come
To pay to Heaven your offerings—there.
PRAGUE, September 3.
In the midst of general joy, a circum
stance has taken place from religious
prejudices, which has considerably al
layed it. In the city of Prague there is
a great number of Jews who principal
ly inhabit that part called the Little
Side. As in the reign of the Emperor
Joseph 11. they obtained the privileges
of citizens, and as the principles of tol
eration openly profeffed by Leopold 11.
did not permit them to entertain the
least uneasiness on the fubjeft, they felt
themselves inclined to ast like the other
citizens, to prove their attachment to
our Sovereign, who is likewise theirs ;
in consequence of which, they armed
and formed themselves into companies,
for the purpose of parading like the o
ther Corporations, on the entrance of
their Imperial Majeftics, The Catho
lics would not fuffer it. Both parties
were irritated, and the quarrel rose to
such a height that they fired on each
other. On each fide there were some
killed and wounded. The interpolition
of the garrison became nerpflary, which
was attended with much success. The
wife precaution was adopted, ofjfhutting
up the Little Side, and thereby cutting
off, for the moment, all communication
between that quarter and the other part
of the city. It is hoped that the fer
ment will subside ; there is, however,
but too much reason to fear for the con
sequences.
LONDON, September 15.
The Emperor of Germany and the
Empress of Russia, beginning to feel the
havock made in their finances, arc both
soliciting loans, the former at four per
cent, the latter at five per cent.
The debt of the Empress is immense,
as besides what {he owes to foreign nati
ons, there is hardly a merchant of any
eminence in her own dominions to
whom Ilie is not a debtor; her resources,
however are great, and her mind seems
to be equal to all her contingencies.
The above loans, with the American
loan, have drawn from this country
within these three weeks, near a mil
lion sterling ; yet such is the flourifhing
condition of our commerce, and the
great influx of wealth from all Europe,
that notwithstanding the above sum,
with the expence of the late armament
before us, the stocks have scarcely fal
len one "half percent.
The report of the day is, that the
Courts of Berlin and Vienna are on the
point of concluding an alliance offenlive
and defenfive, by which they engage to
guarantee one another's dominions : to
thisalliance.it is fa; 4 that the courts of
Russia and Stockholm, will likewise ac
cede.
By the Registers of Cadiz andLifbon,
the importation of gold and silver from
South America,upon an average, is five
millions annually. Of this above a mil
lion is brought every yearinto England,
in return for the manufactures sent to
Spain and Portugal, independent of raw
materials, wine, fruit, fait &c. obtained
from these countries. Thus it happens,
from the superior industry of the Bri
tish manufacturers, and the spirit of en
tcrprife among the merchants, that the
nines of Mexico, Peru, and Brazil, pro
duce more solid advantages to this coun
ty, than they do to the Spaniards and
Portuguele.
Sept. ?.o.j Letters received witnir
these tew days from Cadiz dcfcribe the
situation of the people there, and in moll
3ther parts of Spain, as perfettly uneaf)
md difatisfied. Th'e recent rigorou:
mcafures taken to repress the progref:
jf the French principles have general
y encreafed, and, in some in/lances
:reated popular difcontcnts. French
politics are the general topic, and when
:ver they are difcufled, the conduct oi
he National Alfembly is talked of with
rapture and admiration. From the gen
eral temper of thepublic mind, it fhoulc
"eem as if the people waited only for;
Favorable conjuncture ofcircumflance;
-O imitate the conduCt they admire,
The government in Spain never verv
[frong, is now, from its apprehension:
ind embarraiTments, less able than evei
-O conduct itfelf with proper ftrenotl"
and caution, and every day evinces it;
folly by some absurd measure, d-jfignet
0 prevent, but really fitted to execute
public difcontcnt.
Sept. 21. The French National As-
Temblv may be cxpc&ed to give place ir
a few days to the firft Legislature. One
hundred and fifty of the new Reprefen
:atives were arrived in Paris about ter
iays ago, and the number required ii
constitute a Legislative Assembly is tht e.
hundred and seventy-three.
1 he great majority of the new mem
Ders are :ncn of the fame defcriptior
ind of the fame sentiments with thofc
■vho form the majority in the Nationa
They will therefore be gov
-rned by the fame maxims, and purfu<
he fame course, with but few of tin
iifficulties to embarrass them which op
jofed their predccell'ors at every Hep.
The meeting of the Parliament is-iix
:d for an early day in November.
Sept. 22. In framing a conflitutionfo
1 people, their circumtlances ought no
3nlv to be considered, but also, 'the ex
orclfcd wishes that their circumstance
iiftatc. In regard to the Canadians
■ye ought not to forget, that whateye
he oid French Colonists might think
.vhen the lad Canada a£t was palled
hey mull now be betteracquainted \rit)
he principlcsoftheßritifh eonftitution
is well as more attentive to the niea
urec purfurd in the parent «auf<)ry
.vhich has risen to a distinguished ran!
n the present annals of liberty ; tha
he reft are British fubjccts ; aqd lha
joth are in the neighbourhood of th
republican United States of America.
-ounttr Declaration of the Emperor o
Morocco.
MuLinr Alicir, Emperor of Morocco
&c.
I MAKE known to all my vaCTal
in general, that from this day, 1 dectan
war by sea and land, againfl the Chrii
tian Spaniards my enemies, who an
hurtful to our holy law : my inten
'ion being in the mean time, to get pof
leflion of the place of Medin:;, v. r.ici
:hey call Ceuta, which they havi
usurped from my dominions. I orde
ill my faithful fubjeCl, to take up arms
ind to exert tneir valorous eiiort& a
;ainft their enemies. I grant to al
hose who undertake this enterprise,
:very thing they find in the place,'.ex
:cpt the artillery and war {lores, \vi|id
I reserve for my own iervice.-
I command likewise, and order a Ra
nazan, to the end thai ou; great pro
jhet, who is revered in his vail and in
:omparable temple of Mecca, may ac
:ord his protection to all those yhc
ake up arms against the Christians, oui
:nemies. Signed, &c.
MULEY ALICIR.
Result of the conference at
Pi ln ixz.
The following Paper is printed on thi
continent, with an address to the peo
pie, congratulating them on the nca
profpeft of their being freed fron
their chains of flavcry by it, whicl
they call the death warrant of'tln
two Sovereigns themselves.
Convention between his Majejiy the Emperor
and his Prussian Majejiy.
His Majcflv the Emperor, and hi:
klajefly the King of Pruflia, having
leard the wishes and representations o:
tfonfieur (the French King's brother
ind the Count d'Artois, do jointly de
dare, that they look upon the actual fi
xation of his Majefly the King ofFranct
is an objed of common concern to all
the Sovereigns of Europe. They hope
that this*concern will, doubtlels, be ac
knowledged by all the powers, frorr
whom aflifiance is required ; and that
in consequence, they will not rcfufeem
ploying, in conjun&ion with their fait
Majeflies, the mod efficacious means
relative to their forces, in order to ena
ble the King of France to consolidate
in the moflperfeft liberty, the basis o
a monarchical government, suitable t<
the rights of Sovereigns, and the wel
fare ot the French nation—Then, an<
in this cafe, their said Majesties th
Emperor and King of Pruflia are deter
mined to ast speedily, with mutual con
cord, and with neccflary forces, to ob
tain the proposed end in common.
Meanwhile they will give to thei
troops necessary orders that they may b
ready for putting themfelvcs in a flat<
for a&ivity.
Pilnitz, thfj 27th of August, 1 -
T>:.e Convention between bit Imperial Alajejry an,
the Ottoman Porte, for regulating their frontier:,
i HE Imperial Court, and the Ottoman Parte
at thi happy- period of a concluded peace, bein,
dehrous ot giving one another ciuntial proofs o
their friendship, of prevent ng every thing that i
progreis of time might diiturbthe perfect harmo
ny 0, the extended frontiers of their domin: • <
and of confirming, for their mutual advantage
the only alterations which they ever /hall pern.,
to be made in the articles of the whole detinitiv
treaty ot peace, concluded this day, August 4
I 79 1 * at Szillovia, have by means ps their pleni
potenfiary ministers, (being, on the parr of th
impeirial royal court, fcaron Philip Van Herbe.r
I<.ath-Keal, adtual counsellor of the court of h.
imperial Apostolic Majeiry, and Count Franci
Efternazy Van GalanVhy, his adtual Chamberlain
Lord or Trottis, and hereditary Lord of the cour:
tv of Forchtenftein ; and, on the part of the Otto
man Porte, the Reis Effendi or Minister of Fo
reign Affairs, Berri Abdulah EfFendi, the Order
Kadifii or Chief Jufticc of the Ottoman armies
Irmet Ihraliim Bey, and the Roufnamedsji, o
Comptroller-General of the Finances, Duri Ma
homed Eli'endi), agreed upon the following arti
lies, viz.
1. Whereas, a negotiation was opened befor
the war, concerning the claims of the lmperia
court on the tradts or land ot the Bannat of Temef
war, in possession of the Porte, and concernin
the oiltridts situated on the left fide of the rive
Unna; the sublime parties, confiderin.j on th
one part, the defers of the former demarcation o
frontiers in those tradts of land, and being willing
on the other part, to procure, in an invariabt
manner, and lor a general advantage, the fina
arrangement made and fpecified in the fecom
and tmrd article of this Convention 5 by whicj
.'ettlement they do totally and definitively, an<
by mutual consent, terminate all the causes o
claims, which make the object of said negotia
tion. %
2. In consequence of this, the Ottoman Porti
grants, that tbe borough and territory of Old Or
lowa, as far as the Czerna, shall remain in thi
pode in on and the sovereignty of the Imperial Roy
al Court, in such manner that the river Czerna
on that fide, shall for ever constitute the demar
cations of frontiers of the Austrian Monarchy, 01
this express condition, however, that the fail
Imperial Royal Court is never to fortify either th
former borough of Orfowa, or any part of tl)e ter
ritory ceded by the Ottoman Porte in virtue 0
this present article ; And as to the little valle
the fort of the Island of Orfowa, expreffei
by " the frontiers'* in the fifth article of the trea
:y of peace of Belgrade, this fiiall forever, in th
flricteti acceptation, remain neuter between th
:wo dominions j that is to fay, its sovereignty flial
appertain neither to the one nor to the other, an
:he contradting parties engage to let the said val
ev lay perfectly waste, without ever permitting
hat any body ibould build upon it, inhabit th
fame, or exercise hufbandrv thereon.
3. Concerning the diftridt on the left fide of th
river Unna, the two contracting parties hav
ijrrced, that the frontiers of both empires, fhal
or the future, and for ever, be regulated in tlv
ollowing manner, viz. The new line of fepara
:i.m (drawn with red ink on the map annexed ti
:his convention) is to begin in the tradts of lam
>n the right shore of the river Glina, (at the do
jointed out on said map) and is to continue alonj
'• river, leaving Czartin and its diftridt under thi
1 nperial Royal dominions : it is to extend alonj
:he territory of the Turkish fort Sturlifli or Stur
itz, (marked on the map with yellow) in fuel
■nanner that this fort and its territory, as far a;
1 cannon bal will reach, are to remain in th'
>ofl"eifion of the Turkish empire j whence thi
sne is to continue in a straight diredtion toward
,he Coronna, in order to follow the stream of tha
iver upward, as far as, and incluhve of, Drefnick
vhich, together with its territory, is to remaii
jnder the Imperial Royal jurifdidtion. Moreo
/er \ a,c * ne ' s to exten d °ver the mounts Smo-
I'anitz, and the place called Tichiewo, continue
»!ong the high mountains, at whole bottom i:
ituated the place Lapaz (marked yellow in tin
Jnttp) and continue as far as the Unna, the fpao
>fan hour's walking above Vacup ; (marked yel
low) from whence this line upwards, on the Jef
|hore of the Unna, is to follow as far as its wefterr
ources (marked with a red dot) in order to termi
iate at the present triple demarcation or fron
tiers, by the ftraiteft way pointed out by the ex
ent of the high mountains, leaving thus Stre
litza Turi under the Turkish dominion. Th<
Imperial Royal Court engages never to cause tc
3e repaired, or built, any fortreftes whatever, on
ier any denomination, or for any cause whatfoc
'er, in the whole extent (without diftindtion) o
he diftridt which the Porte, by this article, doe:
:ede to the fame.
. 4- The Imperial Royal Court, in order to an
wer, on i v s part, the amicable dispositions fhewr
by the Porte in the final fettJetfient of the fron
tiers, as well in relation to the borough and terri
tory of Old Orfowa as concerning the High Unna,
as has been agreed by the 2d and 3d articles of
this convention, and in order to confirm and con
solidate the happy peace concluded between the
two Empires, declares, in the njnft folenan man
ner, that it acknowledges as definitive the present
regulation of the frontiers, and engages not
claim, for the future, any other than the abuvc
limited frontiers.
The Imperial Royal Court, willing to lbew
:ts latisfacVion ac this legulation of frontiers, en
gages to return to the Porte, all fortreHes, cables,
and fortifications, taken from the Turks, in tie
Jiate in ivhieb they are at present, and without de
posing any ot the repairs or new works which
have been made upon them fincc their capture j
renouncirg, for this pur pole, the clause concern
ing the levelling, as fpecified in the end of article
6th of the definitive treaty.
6. The Imperial Royal Court, disposed to ful
fil the deli res of rhe Porte, of speedily being put
in pofleflion of all the conquests, readily co-oper
ates, in order to abridge the periods in article 6th
of said treat), deflined for the evacuations; and,
in ccrjuntfion with the Porte, fixes that the pe
riods (hall be reckoner from the day of the signing
ot the treaty, and net from the exchange of the
uifications, viz. thirty days from this day till the
evacuation, ceffton, arri restoration of WalUthia*
oiid the other five diftri&s of Moldavia, and fixtv
days'from the lame epoch for all the other con
queftc.
Both parties moreover engage to perform the ex
change of the ratification of the treaty of peace,
•r far theft, uithin a fortnight, indeed of forty
•ays, as mentioned in article 14th of the defini
tive treaty.
7. I h ratifications of this feparatc convention
are to bt- <!; . ~\ ud feparacely, and exchanged on
the fame u. v .1 jr f the treaty of peace.
Done a>. Sziltovia, 4th August, 1791.
[Signed]
Baron Van Herbert Rath-Keal, and
Count Francis EJierbaxy Van Galantha•
Copy of a Clause or Postscript aided to the origi
nal 1 reatv of Peace between Austria and the
Porte, underneath the fig-natures of the Minis
ters of the 3bove powers.
" We, Plenipotentiaries of his Mijefty the
King of Pruilia, and his Majesty the King of
Great-r»ritain, and of their High MightineUVs the
States Geneial of the United Provinces, liaving
aififted as Mediators in the worlt of this peace, de
clare, that the above Treaty of Peace between the
Imperial and Royal Court, and the Sublime Ot
toman Porte, with all theclaufes, conditions, and
stipulations which it contains, has been concluded
by* the mediation of their Majesties the King of
Prufiia and of Great-Britain, and of their High
Mightinesses the States General of the United
Province?.
In testimony of which, we have signed the ore
fent with our names, and set thereto the feai 9?
3ur arms.
Done at Sziftova, the 4th of Aug. 1791.
(l. s.) Jerome Marquis de Luecbejiniy
(L. s.) Robert Murray Keith >
(l. s») R» de liaeften*
ROBERT S MOC K,
Woollen Draper & Mercer,
Hasjvji received by the Jhip figou, from
and for Jale at hi s Store y on the north eajl corner
of Market and ' Third Jirects, Phi adelfhia,
AN ELEGANT ASSORTMENT OF
SUPERFINE and fupcr broadcoths, in almost
every colour.
Ladies fuperfine habit cloths,in the molt fafhion
able colours.
Superfine caflimers, do.
Do. and super eljftic (biped cloths.
Milled drabs and hunters cloths.
A variety of fancy waiftcoating, i n silk, silk and
cotton, silk moleikin, callimers priiited and
tamboured, and luperfine fliiped Spanilh toili
nets.
Mens black fattins, florentines, and silk prunellas
of luperior qualites
>ilk, silk and cotton, cotton and worsted hose,
aflorted.
iattins and mantuas, a beautiful variety.
> uperfine rattinets, with a large colJedion of best
trimmings for cloths, &c. of everv quality.
Vloreens, joans spinning, durants and caliman
coes.
and camblets, See,
)-8 wide fuperfine Marseilles quilting with bor
ders.
Vlarfeilles bedquilts and cotton counterpanes, 9-4.
to 12-4.
Flanders bedbunts and bedtickings.
A. beautiful variety of chintzes and cottons.
All elegant assortment of yard wide furniture
chintzes, in beautiful colours and patterns,
with a large variety of furniture cottons.
Velveteens, velvets, corauroyj, thicksets, fancy
cords, stockinets, royal ribs, fattinets, hair
pluihes, &c. &c.
striped and grey, twilled and plain Bath coatings,
ilofe blankets assorted.
ROBERT SMOCK has also for Sale, a great
of GOODS of the best quality in their
everal kinds. He presumes it is unneceftary to
more particular in the enumeration, and that
t is fufficient to fay the assortment is very gene
al and extensive, consisting of alrnoft every arti
cle in his line of business.—Being desirous of giv
ng entire fatisfa&ion to those who may be pleased
o favour him with their custom, as well
»s of meriting a continuance of those cuf
omers, whose favours he has hitherto experien
:ed, he flatters himfelf the cheapness of his Goods
viil be the best means of effecting his wilbes.
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S and S W A I N E,
AT THEIR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIGH-STRUT,
NEAR SIXTH-STREET*
PHIL DEL PHIA.