C7J yyf k > f-y f V y @
Vol. I.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
A Political enquiry into the heft means cj
improving the Commerce cj the
American States.
[Continuedfrom our lajl.}
THERE are two claffcs of people in
this country, who, I forelee, will
have very little rclifh for the opinions
1 havQ been endeavoring to establish.
in the preceding pait of my addrcis,
Theieare, Jirji, prejudiced people, whe
•will never quit the;,eld track, be it evei
so inconvenient; and,Jecondly. intere'hed
persons, who will naturally raise ob
j eft ions to whatever seems to interfere
with their favorite schemes.
The southern slates (fay foftie) are toe
warm; and those to the north and
north-eafl, too cold, for the breeding
a tuHiCiency of sheep to supply a large
woolen rnanufaftory in America.
In answer to this objection, 1 observe,
that the southern provinces of Spain
are exposed to a ft:ll greater cxcefs of
heat than those of the United States of
America, and yet support iminenlc ma
nufactures of woolen, for the purposes
of commerce. The northern parts of
Germany are extremely cold in whiter,
and yet they likewiie exccl in the ma
nufacture and exportation of woolens.
Thefc are truths so well known in the
commerc'ai world, that I fuppole nobo
dy will dii'putc them.
It would be worth while to remark,
in refpeft to the qualities of wool, thai
in the north as well as the south of Eu
rope, there are a particular breed o!
sheep, whose wool is finer, longer, anc
bearing a greater refeinblance to silk
than that of any other fort. It is ob
ferv-cd, too,that difference of chntote an*
the many varieties of paflurage are pro
duftive of three lorts of wool, the bell
the indifferent, and the worst. Thcf(
three varieties may be considered a:
the principal fupportof the cloth mar.u
factories, and are, we may fay, the gold
en fleece for any nation, that knows how
to"turn to the bed advantage the re/our
ces which a well directed induftry'put
into their hands.
Wool is the better in quality for thi
fleece not being fho-rri too early in tin
season. The ancient laws of the king
dom of France fixed the time of fhee;;
{hearing to the tenth of June. It is re
markahle that the fleeces shorn aboi;
this time yield at leaf!; about one-fourtl
more from the loom, than those take;
later, and better prefcrvc that natura
hlky gloss, which is very imperfeftl)
imitated by the use of gums. Ano
iher advantage in shearing sheep abou
this time, arises, from the fleece be
ing then arrived to aftateol maturity
\vhich makes the cloth more fufceptibi;
of the ayes and fliffening.
It has cost every manufacturing na
tion in Europe abundance of trouble tc
hriog their woolen fabrics to the neces
sary degree of perfection. Even Swe
den, notwithHanding the rigour of hei
climate in winter, has succeeded no)
only in her endeavors to propagate the
breed of Englilh sheep, but alio in im
proving the aborigr.al flock, by intro
ducing rams from abroad. If there be
only moderate care taken to protest
these animals from the severity of ilorms,
and keep them under flicker during
winter (as is the calc in Sweden) in or
der to prevent the rain from breeding a
rot in the wcol, there is no danger but
•that it will always be excellent in its
quality.
It may be objected that a flrift nation
al attention to the propagation of sheep
would divert too many people from the
duties of agriculture, insomuch as even
to injure, ultimately, the progrels of
the woolen manufacture itfelf. I an
swer, that one man, with two dogs, is
at all times fufficient to feed and over
see fix hundred Iheep, capable of pro
ducing to the value of £ .6co a year in
By PHILIP FREN EA U
MONDAY, November 28, 179 1
wool, he fides manure proper for fertil
izing the ground. This quantity of
wcol wrought into fine broadcloths,
would, with proper management fur
nifh a circulation of more than £.'~cco
in trade, and give fubfifttence to a mul
titude of people in the towns, who
might at all times he kept buly, while
tho/e in the country might be profitably
employed in the winter, when agricul
tural labors arc fulpended.
If iueh methods were adopted, there
would be no danger of the lands iußer
ing for want of cultivators ; so far frui:
it, that these are the very means to in
crcaie the number of husbandmen, a-nr
confcquently the quantity of land ii
tillage. It might be oblerved
that mountains and heights inaccefub!;
to the plough, are the rnoflt proper foi
the support of sheep. Certain it is, tha
these animals arc. much .fonder of the
sallturage on eletfirtcd situations, thai:
he contrary ; since here they breathe ;
tlear wholfome air, which contribute:
lot a little to their growth and the fine
less of their wool. The Pyrennear
nountams, the Alps, and the mole rug
;ed parts of Switzerland, are every
where covered with ilocks of sheep.
vhofe flceccs 1 apply the manufactories
ind enrich a country naturally churhih
ind barren. It is clear, then, from
hsle mftanccs, that the raifmg of sheep
tan neither injure the public, nor be
jrejudicial to agriculture. On thecon
raiy, a woolen manufacture, well efta
jhlhed, would bean inexhauftiblefourcc
)f wealth, a fund constantly increasing,
md flowing from the hand of industry
0 circulate through the country at
arge, and serving as the ground-work
or the efitabiiflunent of an extensive
tommfrce.
Per lons inclined to raise difficulties,
md thro w obfltacles in the way of this
;lan, may poffibiy objcCt, that the po
pulation of America is too mconfidera
t>le for pro, cits of this kind at pre fen t :
hat our flax, our silk, our wool arc toe
trifling m quantity to build such
ichcines upqn, &c. A thousand instan
ces, however, prove the contrary to
-hefe alfcrtiojis. Geneva and Liecc
were much more scant of people, in
proportion to their extent, than the
United states, when industry and the.
patronage of government caused the:i
infant manufactures to begin to prosper.
A imall town, or village, that lets idell
in earnelt about any manufacture, i:
equally capable with the urged of ad
vancing i. to the utmost poiLble degree
of perfection. Whoever has travelled
through Europe, will fublcribe to the
truth of my observation, where an in
finite number of very conliderable efta
blifhme;.:s in i;,anuiaCtures are carried
t>n in villages.
In regard to the growing of flax, al
though there are vail quantities of this
article railed, it is certain, t/iat a great
er demand from the manufactories wouie
at once a e.eale the quantity, a-, \vu:
the cafe a lew years ago in Pi u ilia. Te
[peak cai.d.dly, the culture of flax doc:
not appear to be properly attended to in
ill parts of the United States. The lane
tor this purpose ought to be of the vei)
Deft kinel ; the clod should be brokci
fine, ar.d the ground as well preparer
with dung. &c. as you would a spot so:
1 garden. The flax-feed may then b<
own as thick as you wfould fo»v grass
eed in a meadow ; but when it is auou'
ix inches high, it should be carefully
weeded, without which, grals and othei
/egetable substances would be apt tc
mpede the. growth. In the Aufttriar
Low Countries, they often lecure then
lax by {ticking it ; that is to fay. the
>ranehes or fuckers are tied to little
lakes, about a foot high, to keep i
rom falling down, or lodging, and con
equently losing much of its good quali
y. Inthismanner, too, they lecure then
lax in Flanders and Zealand, when
.t grows to the greatest perfection, anc
f.-rnilfccs for lace, cambric
and othsr.finc texture®, trom its bcirit
irery long and of * fine fibre. There i;
llfo another fort, perhaps, little knowr
n America, railed the Averlajiing Sibcri
in flax: 'l'r.is species of flax (like thi
ugar cane) grows ieverai years frorc
he fame root, always springing up a
lew, as soon as the old stalk is cutoff
Naturalists have observed that there are
n common, from thirty to forty (talks
n this kind of flax, growing out fron
he fame root. Experience has proved
hat the general qualities of this plant
or manufadlure, are fully equal to thoi"
jF the belt flax of o:hcr kinds more gene
rally known in Europe. The only de
etl is, that its fibres cannot be fpui
nto the finefl fort of thread—but then
n e abundance of uses for which acoarl
:r {(Cxture is equally valuable with tin
t,'i?r ; mankind ftaoding in need no
>niy of fuperfine linens, but, much
nore generally, of thole that are coari,
.rid flout.
Ihe cultivation of Siberian flax
hould be a national object, then, 11
America ; for this plain reason, tha
he annual expence, in the commor
.vay, of preparing and lowing thf
jround would be saved, except at lone
r.tcrvals of time ; it being onlv neceffa
y to sow it once, and it will yield the
noft abundant crops for a great numbci
)f years.
Rawfilk may be justly reckoned one
if the principal materials for a national
nanufacture. With regard to this com
modity, however, there are people
tmongll us not ashamed to alfert, that it
.annot be produced, in any considera
te quantities, in cold countries. The
"xampie of Pruflia, where mduftry is
day making unrivalled progress,
is amply fufficient todeftroy a prejudice,
which nas indeed antiquity on its fide,
but has been ruinous to this branch of
irt. Ever since the king encouraged
the planting of mulberry-trees, Pruiiia
has railed lilk enough to lupply her
whole national manufactures in that ar
iicle. liut it mull be remarked here,
.hat it was not merely the good wishes
xf the court that established this noble
manufacture in Pruflia ; it was in its
nfancv alfiduoully encouraged, and di
rected by laws and regulations favora
ble to those employed in the nurture of
ilk-worms, as well as to the
urers of the fjl-k. In tracing the pro
:edureofthe Pruflian govenimont, re
ative to the silk manufactory, wefnall
uniformly find that the Prulfian mo
narch was deeply impreiTcd with the
importance and utility of such eflablilh
ments, to the welfare of his nation. In
:he next place, to prevent the exporta-
Dt raw silk from his dominions, he if
iued a mandate in 1749, in which his
übjects were forbidden, under pain of
i'evere penalties, to lell an\> of their raw
ilk to foreigners, or to export any the
.call quantity out of the kingdom, upon
my pretence whatever ; but to carry it
to the national manufactories, where
they would find a ready market for it,
there to be wrought up into the various
fluffs for home use, as well as exporta
tion. The leverity of this law was ex
tended even to velvets made abroad, thf
wearingof which was prohibited by an
edict which decreed, that all foreign vel
vets found in the kingdom that fhoulc
Jie proved to be of foreign manufacture
should be torn to pieces and burnt b)
the hands of the common executioner
by 'he fame edict, the Pruflian taylor:
were forbidden to make up any suit o:
imported velvet. This was done
pointedly, with a view to exclude tin
productions of the neighboring silk ma
nufactories of other nations ; anditwa
no uncommon thing for the monarcl
himfelf to refufe an audience to an'
person, be his quality what it might
who was clothed in a suit of any foreigi
manufacture whatever.
But it is not Pru-tfia alone, among the
northern powers of Europe, that has
found the good effects of a cariful at
tention to the culture of the white mul
berry-tree ; very lately all the other ci
vilized dates, itill further north, have
ftrenuouflv endeavored to free them
felvesfrom a dependence upon the more
louthern nations, for the article of fiik.
The fevcral circles of the German em
pire, as well as Denmark, have at pre
lent an abundance of the fpeciesof mul
berry trees above mentioned, which
they cultivate to the greatest degree of
perfection,
Thcfe examples must convince every
body of the fallacioufnefs of the idea,
tiiat the eftablifhinent of fiik. manufac
tories is only practicable in warm coun
tries. In F ranee there is not, at this
day, a single province which has not a
considerable number of thelemoft valu
able trees v and not a few of the principal
oads through the kingdom are planted
with them for many hundreds of miles
n length, on each fide, lie fides all
his, the government has taken care
mulberry nurseries should be continu
ally in growth, to supply, gratis, every
person that {liould think proper to plant
;hem on his lands.
[ Thc remainder of t/us tranjlaticn in cur rxxt.]
PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES*
Wednesday, Nov. 23.
A report was read from the Secretary
it War, on the petitions of the legal
eprefentadves of William Bond, Wad
teigh Noyes, Charles Motte, Barnard
Elliott, Samuel Wife, Benjamin Hu
*er, John Bush, and Richard Shubrick,
i ffic;ers slain in the fervicc of the Uni
ted States during the late war.
Roferred to the committee for making
compensations to widows, orphans,
Lnvalids.
Petitions were read from Peter liuber
and James Pettigrcw, praying the re
newal of certificates loft or eleftroyed.
Referred to the Secretary of the Trea
sury.
Petitions from John Blake and Mi
chael Rapp, praying compensation for
advances and fupptiu;, during the war.
A petition from Paul Weyandt, of
Pennl'ylvania, praying receipt of the
pay due to his fori, lieutenant Jacob
Weyandt, who died in the United
States' fervicc during the war.
A petition from Juliana ShuLz and
Philip Zeiber, executors of Georg-;
Shulz, deceased, far allowance of the
rent of a tenement, the property of said
Shulz, anpropriated for the use of the
medical department during the war.
Ordered, leveraily, to lie on the table.
A memorial was read from the people
called Quakers, in Virginia, Hating
their objections to certain parts of the
militia bill, now depending. Referred
to the committee of the whole houle on.
said bill.
The house then proceeded to the con
sideration of the amendments reported
vefterday by the committee of the whole
houle to the " bill apportioning the re
prelentation of the people of the' Un
ited States, according to the firft enume
ration." Thefirft of which amendments
was, in lubftance, that from March 3d,
1793, the House of Representatives
should be chosen by the people, in the
proportion of one repreientative for
every thirty thou fan d persons ; viz.
4 from New-Hampshire ; 15 from Maf
lachuletts ; 7 from Connecticut; 2 from
Rhode-Island ; 2 from Vermont; 11
from New-York ; 5 from New-Jersey ;
14 from Pennsylvania; 1 from Dela
ware ; 9 from Maryland ; 21 from Vir
ginia ; 2 from Kentucky ; 11 from N.
Carolina; and 2 from Georgia.
Numb. o.A motion was macjs to insert thirty
hur thouiand, inllead of i/urty ihovfj.ni
—The question being put on this mo
t:on, it passed in the negative. Yeas
21. Nays 38 —The yeas and nays beinj
demanded, thole who Voted in the as
firmative arc as follow : Fisher Ames
ohn B. Afne, Robert Barnwell, Elia
j'.oudinot, Sliearjafhub Bourne, Benja
liiin Bourne, Jonathan Dayton, Nicho
las Gilinrtii. Benjamin Goodhue, Jame
Hillhoufe, Aaron Kitchell, Samuel Li
verrrrbre, Nathaniel Nilcs, Theodor
Sedgwick, Jeremiah Smith, Ifrae
Smith, William Smith, John Steele
Jonathan Sturges, George Thatcher
and Artemas Ward.
Those who voted in the negativie are
Abraham Baldwin, Egbert Benlor.
John Brown, William Findley, El
bridge Gerry, William B. Giles, fame
Gordon, Andrew Gregg, Samuel Grif
fin, William Barry Grove, Thoma
Hartley, Daniel Meifter, Daniel Huger
Israel Jacobs, John W. Kittera, Join
Lawrance, Amafa Learned, Richan
B. Lee, Nathaniel Macon, James Ma
difon, Andrew Moore, F. A. Muiilen
berg, William Vans Murray, Johi
Page, Jofiah Parker, Cornelius C
Schoonmaker, Joshua Seney, Uptoi
Sheridine, Thomas Sumpter, Peter Sil
veftcr, Thomas Tredwell, Thomas T
Tucker. Abraham Venable, Jeremia!
Wadfworth, Anthony Wavne, Alex
ander White, Hugh Williamfon, am
Francis Willis.
The second amendment was, that up
on the return of the census of the inha
bitants of South-Carolina, the Prefiden
of the United States shall notify the ex
ccutive of said Rate of the number o
representatives therein to be elcfted
according to the proportion aforefaic
of one representative for every thirty
thoufandinhabitants; whichbeing read
was agreed to, and ordered to be en
grafted, and read the third timeto-mor
row.
According to the order of the day, th<
house resolved itfclf into a committee o
the whole on the report of the commit
-tee of ele&ions, relative to Mr. Pink
oey's resignation, and Mr; Mercer's cer
tificate of eletlion in his room, from th<
executive of the state of Maryland.
A great deal of debate took place, re
lative, f-rjt, to any legal obligation Mr
Pinkney might be supposed to lie unde
to the acceptance of his appointment t(
a feat in the house of representatives
and, •secondly, in relpeft to the conftitu
tionality of Mr. Mercer's election.
In the opinion of several speakers
Mr. Pinkney was -not bound by th<
words of the constitution to accept hi.
appointment; that any obligation or
that score could only be remotely dedu
ced by implication, and that unless th(
right of resignation had been denied ex
prefsly in the constitution, Mr. Pink
ney was independent of any compulfior
of this kind. He had infringed upor
no contrati ; and tho' it was in'thi
power of the house to inflict a penalty
on such occasions, no rule for that pur
pose had as yet been eftablifhcd; anc
therefore Mr. Pinkney had been lef
perfectly at his liberty in this matter
co att as he pleafert. Mr. f iirkney'
cafe appeared to them to be plain an<
simple ; they could fee no inconvenien
cies likely to arise from accepting hi
resignation, and hoped the report of th<
committee would be adopted.
After some time spent in further de
bating on this fubjeft, the chairman o
the committee reported jin amendment
which report and amendment wen
twice read, and agreed to by the houle
and are as follow :
" It appears that at an election heli
for the state of Maryland on the iirl
day of O&ober, 1790, William Pink
ney was duly elected a reprefentativ
for that state, to serve in the lioufe- o
Representatives of the United States.
" That the certificate of his electioi
lias been duly transmitted by the execu
tive thereof, and heretofore so reportec
by your committee.
" That, by letter dated the twenty
sixth of September, 1791, directed to th<
governor and council of that state
William Pinkney refigiied that ap
pointtnent; and that, in confequenci
of such resignation, the executive ilfue<
a writ for an election, to supply the va
cancv thereby occasioned, and have cer
tified that John Francis Mercer was du
ly electpd, by virtue of that writ, ir
pursuance of the law of the state of Ma
ryland in that cafe provided,
" Resolved, That it is the opinion of
his committee, that John Francis Mer
:er is entitled to take a feat in this
louse, as one of the representatives for
he state of Maryland, in the room of
William Pinkney."
Adjourned.
Thursday, Nov. 24.
The petition of Jacob Brandt was
read, praying relief in confideiation of
1 wound received in the American navy
during the war.
A petition of Catharine Schreinrna
ker, praying to receive certain arrears
if pay and depreciation which were
due toher latehufband, Francis Scrhein
maker, ferjeant-major in the late army.
A petition of Margaret Sweyer, pray
ing reimbursement for advances made
3y her husband, Henry Allis, deceai'ed,
late a captain in the army) on account
of the United States ; and also praying
that the half-pay of the deceai'ed may
ae extended to her, and the orphan
:hildren of laid Allis.
Tile above petitions were, severally,
referred to the Secretary at War.
A petition of Beverl\r,Winilow and
Joseph Hawkins, was read, praying
reimbursement for advances made and
supplies furnifhed to the convention
troops and guards at the barracks at Al
bemarle, in Virginia, in the late war;
A petition of William Arnold, pray
ing renewal of a loan-office certificate,
his property, destroyed by fire.
Referred, feveraily, to the Secretary
as the Treasury, for report.
A petition of Hendrick Doyer. gene
va distiller, in New-York, praying that
the ast for laying a duty on difiilled spi
rits may be 10 modified and amended,
that the duty on geneva iirspoited from
abroad, may be augmented; and the
duty on the said article, difiilled within
the United States, reduced.—Referred
io the Secretary of the Treasury, for his
information.
Mr. Dayton, from the committee, pre
(cntcd a bill to extend the time limited
ior the fettling the accounts of the Uni
ted States, w-th the particular dates—
Read a full and lecond~ time, and com
mitted to a committee of the whole e;i
Tuesday next.
Mr. White, from the committee, pre
fer, ted a bill to regulate trade an;i mtcr
courle with the Indian tribes—read .rfirfi
and second time, and committ *d to z
committee of the whole Hcufe on Mon
day next.
The engrossed bill, apportioning the
representation of the people of the Uni
ted States, according to the firfl enu
meration, (of one representative to ih.irt ■,
thousand inhabitants) was read the third
time; and 011 the question being put.
it was carrried in the affirmative :—
Yeas 43 —Nays 12.
Ordered that the Clerk carry the said
bill to the Senate for their concurrence.
According to the order of the dav, the
Houlethen resolved itlelfinto a ccmmit
:ee of the whole, on the committee's re
port relative to James Jackson's peti
tion, complaining of the undue election
md return of Anthony Wayne, from
Georgia. Mr. Muhlenberg in the
Chair.
Before any of the resolutions was ta
ken into con fide ration,
Mr. Wayne rose, and observed, thai
about eleven months were now elapsed,
lince the election, which is at pre fen 1
called in question, had taken place
that the House was already upwards ol
four weeks in feilion ; —that the peti
:ioner must surely have had time fuffici
?nt to come forward, at the firft meeting
as the Houle, to support the charge's
contained in his petition ; —that it could
hardly be imagined, the want of time
prevented him from advancing —no !
it was rather to be fuppoled, that he was
kept back by the want of evidence, tc
substantiate those charges; andperhap;
ay the expectation of procuring a ma
jority in the lcgillature of Georgia, to
countenance his claims :—thefe were
Fasts, which, he believed, were not un
•mown tofome gentlemen in tke
—the fame arts, the fame practices, tht
lame manoeuvres, which had procured a
irefentment from the grand jury, again!]
.he election inqueflion, and even against
"ome of the acts of the general Govern
nent, might perhaps be expected to pre
vail at length with the legislative body,
1 he news-papers (he observed) have
eemed, on this occasion, with teffimo
nes and affidavits, procured during fe
deral months pa ft ;—as to the taannw,
n which they h been obtained,. tiiat.
ne fair!. was a subject of investigation foi
i future day :—fome of them were un
ier the signatures of perfens, -who hat
never read-, nor were capabi; of reading
;hem he felt for the situation of fomi
as those individuals, as they were al
ready presented for perjury on that oc
:afion.
He declared that he entertained no
:hc most dillant delire to procraftinati
in enquiry into the merits of the elec
:ion :—but he mull observe, that it coulc
not but be obvious to every gentlemai
on the floor, that no other country ii
the world would countenance the modi
in which Mr. Jackson had proceeded
by the publication of ex-part: evidence
on a lubje6t, that was to come under th<
of the House.
He concluded by declaring his unwil
lingnefs to treipafs on the time of thi
committeehe would therefcrecnly be;
leave to recapitulate, that eleven month
were elapied, lince the election tool
place ; and that the petitioner had, eve
iince, been induftrioufiy employed ii
procuring evidence :—if the committer
Should be disposed to indulge the gen
tleman with further time for that pur
pole, he would not, for his part, maki
the Imalleft objection to granting hin
that indulgence : should they think pro
per to adopt the report now under con
lideration, which seemed to contem
plate and even to invite the advances o
that gentleman, he would have no ob
jeftion to meet liini upon that ground
or upon any other, provided it were ho
norable ground.
ihe Speaker then resumed the chair
and Mr. Muhlenberg reported, that th
committee had taken the report into con
lideration, and made progress therein.
Resolved, That the House will again
to-morrow, take the report into confi
deration. Adjourned.
Friday, Nov. 25.
Mr. Philip Key, a new membe
from Maryland, appeared and took hi
feat.
Mr. Vadfworth. from the committee
presented a bill lor making compenfa
tion to widows, orphans, and invalids
in certain cases.
Xc.'d a firft and second time, and com
mitted to a committee of the whol
House on Mondav next.
Mr. Wadfworth, from the commit
tee for compenfatiotis for invalids, &c
presented a' bill for the relief of Davii
Cooke.
A petition of William Dolby wa
read, praying relief in consideration o
a wound received, in the United States
iervice, during the war.
Also a pel it ion of Alice Weir, lati
reljft of lieutenant Samuel Kenny, de
ccafcd, praying to receive the pay dui
to her laid husband, who died in capti
vity with the enemy, during the war.
A memorial of John Elfiot and Ab
r.cr Prior, praying farther cornpenfatioi
for their iervices, as lurgeons-mates ii
the late army of the United States.
Referred severally to the Secretary a
V» ar, to report thereon.
According to the order of the day
the Koule, in comraiuie of the whale
resumed the consideration of the repor
of the leleft committee, on the contest
ed election of Anthony Wayne, froti
Georgia. 7 '
After some debate on this fubjeft, th<
committee roie, and reported amend
ments to the laid report, which wen
read, and, in part, agreed to.
Ine report being further amended
and the question put thereupon, wa:
agreed to, as follows :
Resolved, That the firft Monday c
r eoruary next be assigned for the tfia
of the articles alledged in the said peti
tion again ft the said return.
Rdolved, i hat the evidence, which
may be offered on the part of the peti
tioner, lhall confined to the proof o:
trie articles of charge exhibited in the
laid petition, against the validity of the
return of the laid election.
Resolved, 1 hat on the trial, the de
potion of a witrnefs (hall be received
which lhall have been taken more thar
twenty-fiv. days prior to the day aIW
ed for the trial, before any juftice°oi
judge of the courts of the United States
or before any chancellor, justice or judge
ot a iupreme or superior court, mayor
or chief magistrate of a city, or judge oi
a county court, or court of cornmor
Pleas of any of the United States, nol
cing of counsel or attorney to eithel
;I-,e said Anthony Wayr.e or the peti
tioner : Provided, That a notification
from the magistrate, before whom the
deposition is to be taken, to the adverie
part}-, to be present at the taking the
lame, and to put interrogatories, if he
think fit, shall have been firft made out
and served on the adverie party, or his
attorney specially authorised for the pur
pose, as either may be nearest, if either
is within one hundred miles of the place
of such caption, allowing time for their
attendance, after notified, not less than
at the rate of one day, Sundays exelu
five, for every twenty miles travel. And
;very person deposing shall be carefully
examined and cautioned, and sworn or
affirmed to teftify the whole truth, and
shall iuHcribe the testimony by him or
her given, after the fame shall be re
duced to writing, which shall be done
only by the magistrate taking the de
polition, or by the deponent in his pre
lence. And the depositions so taken,
together with a certificate of the notice,
if any, given to the adverse party, or his
attorney, lhail be sealed up'by the fa:d
magistrate and directed to the Speaker.
Provided nevertheless, that no ex-parte
depofiticn (hall be used on the tr-al of
the said petition, which shall have been
taken at any time before the 26th day
of December next. Provided also, That
evidence takenin any other mannerthan
is herein before diretted, and not ob
jected to by the parties, may, with the
approbation of the House, be produced
on the trial.
The several orders of the day were
further postponed until Monday next.
Adjourned.
PARIS, Sept. 9.
Lass night count L:chtenftein arrived here
t;om Vienna, charged with dispatches from the
emperor, and, as it is believed, with the impor
tant relult of the interviews which have been
held there 011 the fubjecl. of France. While the
puolic are daily agitated with alarming notices of
armies marching, magazines forming, and trea
ties made 10 counteract the revolution, the intel
ligent politician oblerves, that a more prudent
policy governs the councils of Germany, and that,
profiting by the lelfon of France, the emperor
and the king of Pruffis have determined to take
the only means of avoiding the ,mtrodu6lion of
the French disease, namely, that of reducing
tiieir enormous armies, and by a thorough eco
nomy in all tiie departments of ityeir expcuce,
to eale the burthens of the people, and turn them
to objects of indultry and manufacture. It is
la:d, that the reduction of their armies is to be
cained to 100,000 men each, and 10 much the
yoKe under which the empite groans is to be
lightened. Ali this is to be set down to the
credit of the French revolution.
LONDON, September, to.
EXCULPATION tjtke CHURCH.
As an idea has pretty generally prevailed,
tnat lome ot theclergy ol the church of En land
have been buly in fomenting that fpjrit which
■ias brose out into !uch illegal violences again'.t
Or. PnrJlUy, and his dilfennng Friends, we aie
happy to find it completely obviated by the fol
lowing Acldrefs, which breathes a fpiril of liber
ality and good sense that is truly edifvin<* We
rejo.ee, that the clergy have taken lo proper a
lep, and hope, that however appearances may
lave fa\OLiied the idea or their having exulted iq
Llie .ate events, they will now be entirely excul
pateu by the candour of a difcercing public.
Address, vot yetJirnrd., from the Bijl.ofsand Clergy
cj the Chunk of England to the Rev. Dr.
Pnetlley.
WHEN outrages againfl the public peace have
been committed, which bear the Qrongeß pre
emptive marks of having been fomented by a
particular body of men, it becomes all of that bo
dy who polfefs the sentiments of moderation and
ulltce to enter their protefl against such outra
ges, and to disclaim the authors and abettors of
hem We, therefore, the minillers of ihe Gos
pel of peace, think it our duty to express our
regret caufeof thechurch
if England has been made the pretext for di!—
uibing the peace of lociety, violating the pro
perty, and endangering the lives of individuals
ind disgracing our country in the eyes of all Eu
lope. We have to lament, that there still ex ; lts
o much of the Ipirit of bigotry, and that our pt
3us labours have failed of enlightning the peo
ple in so material a point. Wuhjegard to your
elf, Sir, we cannot be insensible to the enmuy
i'ou bear againll our hierarchy, ar.d we shall be
4 10 you silenced by your answerers, but
A 'C would not have you burnt by the n;ob. We
)we >°u no a£fe£tion, but we conceive we have
10 "ght to do you injury. We enjoy too much
mnelves from the favour and proteflion of the
aw, to wish to throw down its fences ; and we
l j e 'enfible that when our own houses are of
, als it would be bad policy in us to begin
peaking of windows. We beg you to believe
hat, as most of us have fludied at the Univetfity,
tve are able to unclei Hand a F. guie of fpeecb, andcari di£linguifh bef.wcn real and metaphorical
gunpowder ; that we do not t'niiik hard words
piopeily anlwcedi bv throwing Pones, or argu
ments conluted-by pulimJ down !«xiles. We
uie of opinion, t hat a p.-n is a lawful, and a blud
• eon an unlawful weapon; and that as pamphlets
however severe, break no bones, they arc unfairly
retaliated by a (bower of brickbats. We cannot
help fufpecling there is an abfnrdity in a man','
fheving his zeal for the Constitution, by break
ing the King's peace, nor can we think that any
projefi of mending the laws is quite lo dangeroui
as the open violation ot them. Moreover we
tonfider ourselves as connected with you by the
collateral studies of our profellion, and thouj-J
\ve cannot join wilh you as a theoiogian, we rtf
pe£t you as a philo'opher. We fmcerely la
ment the lofsthe learned world has Curtained b\
the deurutlion of your labours,and the inlliu
mcnts of your future labours, and we feel Ihatm
and indignation at the thought, that while othe
nations are improving in science and liberality
this country will be bianded wilh the reproac:
of fanaticifm worthy only of barbarous ages anc
nations. As churchmen we cannot but diflikt
you, but as men, we sympathize with yo.i—a
scholars, we venerate you —as chriflians, we ad
mite the rneeknefs with which you have exprel
fed yourfelf on so trying an occasion—and a.
F.nglilhmen we regret, that after having doni
honour to you, we fhmild be called upon to tor
give yourcountry. We aie sensible that no
thing can bring lo great an odium upon your op
ponents as the late proceedings ; and we do no
love you well enough to wilh you the crown o
martyrdom. With regard to our own interefls
we car.desire nothing better than to keep thing
quiet, and are sensible, that the agnation of th
public mind, would '.n the end be less fonriida
ble to you than to ouiftlves.
Signed, &c.
Sept. 22. An American schooner, command
ed by Capt. Metcalf, which made a futcefsfu
voyage to China, called at the Sandwich ifiand
in November lad, on her return home— thi
crew were lurpri'ed bv the natives, and ever;
cne murdered.
Spain has involved hcrfelf in a war with Mo
rocco, at a time when all her vigilance require
to be exercised at horn-, to prevent a univerfa
spirit of difcoutcnt from breakingout inio attioi
in her own provinces. The late editls dirr&ec
agatnil the French inhabitants of Spain hav<
(and little elfc cculd be anticipated) set the na
lives to enquire what this liberty is which pro
vokes Such a spirit of petfecution ; but the advo
cates for freedom in Spam have a flubboin toe ti
contend with in the clergy, who arc a mud
more powerful body than ever they were ii
France ; moreover, the French being expellei
the kingdom, they have 110 philofopnical lead
ers to urge them on; the Spanish people o
weight and consequence being at present by ni
means remarkable for that liberal manner o
thinking which has long difiingtufhed their Gal
lie neighbours.
Five vessels have failed this feafor. from feve
lal parts of the Highlands of Scotland, wit!
emigrants for America. Such is thefpinto
emigration from thole pans, that there is ever;
prclpetl of a general depopulation of the High
lauds in a few years.
Information has been received over-land fron
the Eafi-lndies, of the capture of the importan
for tie Is of Barwar by the Britilh troops. Thi
event took place the lattet end ol March lafl
Darwar is in the Mysore country, on the fide o
the peninsula next to Bombay.
On the 14th inft. the king of the French wen
in form, atcompanied by his ministers, and too!
the nectffary oath, to maintain ihenewconlli
tution, before the national assembly. Thiswa
done in the presence of an immense multitud<
of fpeftators, and the ceremony was accompani
ed by a general dilchargeof the auillery belong
ing to the national guilds. The king did no
appear with his blue ribbon ; giving as a rcafon
that " he did not wilh to be difiinguifhed b;
any external mark of dignity from the reft of thi
citizens."
The empress has issued orders for clifbandin;
the major pait of herAfiatic forces, and for lend
ing them home. Each man, cxclufive of hi
pay, is to have a certain quantity of agricultura
implements, by which means, it is hoped, tha
the, at present, barren deserts of Siberia, will bi
cultivated on the return of the peafantiy, wh<
have been 111 fomc degree civilized, by vifitinj
the more weflern and southern climes.
The king of Pruflia has concluded a commer
cia! treaty betv.Y<*n Pruflia and the United' State
of America, aiK. M. Pilafke, a refpeftable mer
chant at Philadelphia, is appointed his maiefly'
conlul general. It is said that he is to propoli
a treaty of alliance between the two countries
lo that the Pruflian manufaflures may be im
ported into America under great advantages.
Nothing could be more dexterous than the ar
by which La Fayeite fcized the moment of thi
assembly's joy at the royal acceptance, to pro
cure fiom tiiem an amnefiy. 1 his was availinj
himfelfof a veiy favorable circuinflance. An\
delay, indeed, from the tumultous clamou/s o
the. Enragees, might have proved fatal to tha
wife and magnanimous mealure. It remains to
be ascertained, whether the haughty spirit o
the princes and nobles of France will fuffer then:
to .-e enter their country as pardoned criminals
The French king's speech does no little hor.oi
to its author : besides the good stile and gooc
sense which pervade it, there is an apology foi
the ting's late elopement, intermixed with pe
culiar fkiil and effe£l.
The acceptation of the new conflitution by
the Jcing of France mud certainly be regarded ai
in ft ne measure definitive, and, depriving
others of a pretext for inierfer. nee, itie aiteirn
uve was either that he should acct'pi upon ill
terins there granted hi;n, or ahrticate the throne
The ast of oblivion, just now palled ii
France, in favor of the refugees, wa certninl
ditbted by a wife and good policy. It will ten
to foften the animofily of parties, and reconcil
i'ne minus of those who are vet averle to the re
volution.
When the king of Fr ;nce refufed to wear th
decoration of St. Esprit, notwithstanding th
previous permiflion of the national alien,biy, h
laid, " That he could not decide in regard tt
the prince royal, who was a minor; hilt h
doubted not but that the eldest lon of a km:; o
Fiance would endeavor to dillip3ui!h himfel
by the virtues of his heart, rather than any bsu
hies about his person."
Numbers of Fr nch families are preparing t<
quit London, in consequence of the adjultmen
ol the French confli'Ution.
While there are so many decayed boroughs
and while so many members are originally re
turned, and afterwards contiouled by a few rid
and powerful individuals, either in or out of ad
minillration, it is impofiible not to believe, tin
a large portion of the reptefentatives are kvaye:
by motives of separate private interePts. Hen t
a miniljer, unlels he be very obnoxious, o-. foim
prudent as to attempt something extremely 01
grant, can at all times commind a majority, 01
almoll every quefhon; by which re -'is ihol<
who, as deputies of the people, are intended :<
(it in judgment on the conduct of the executive
magistrate, and to direst his operations by thei
supreme and unbiassed legillntive authority, fervi
onlv, in fact, to give a his foverei;;i
will and pleasure. The late lord Chatham fore
told, that the rotten boroughs could not oui-liv>
the piefent century ; and froni prelent appear
ances, there is no doubt but the prophecy wil
be fulfilled; and that the modern system of re
venue, and the enormous load of debt unde
which the country labours, will be the gieat or
gan to effect its completion.
P II I LA DELPHI A,
November 28.
The latcft accounts from the western army ar<
dated ( .Sober 15, and inform that they had buil
two forts; one, twenty-five miles from Fort
aihington, and the other about fifty miles fur
thcr on ; and that the army was proceeding t<
the place pitched upon for the next fort, t he;
had not been troubled with the Indians, furthe
than their stealing a conftderable number ot pacl
horses. Early in > (Sober, Piomingp, a grea
Chickefaw chief passed through Lexington, it
Kentucky, with twenty warriors of his nation, ti
join our army, on the wetteni expedition.
Advices from Point-Petre, in Gaudaloupc
mention some difturhances in that place 011 o
about the 20th of September, on account of thi
report of certain decrees having been palled b;
the national alfembly of France.
Extraß of a letter from Princeton, Ncv. 25.
It was formerly oblerved, 111 drawing the com
parilon between the Enghfhand French nations
with refpeft to literary proilufctions, that
" The weighty bullion of one British line,
Diawn to French wire, would through who!
pages Ihtne."
At prelent, however, the literary character 0
these two nations, seems to have undergone a tola
change: The Englilhman is light, flowery, ani
declamatory ; the Frenchman is lound, laboriou
and convincing. What may be the caufeof th
declenfiori of able writers in England, I will no
pretend to fay; but in France, it is evident to me
1 hat the gradual advances towards liberty, and th'
change of government from defpotilm to a mo
naichy extremely limited, has done every thing
Formerly, it was dangerous for a Frenchman u
employ his pen upon the great political topick
which have since been Itarted ; the confequenc
was, that he degenerated into a mere writer o
anecdotes, v-rfes to the ladies, and other fnvu
lons productions of the kind. —I should be forr
10 suppose, that the decay of good writing i
England, is a fore-runner of the decay of liberty
although it must be confefi'cd, that, like th
clouds of Magellan in the South seas, one is rare
ly fcen above the political horizon unattended b
1 he other.
Extraß of a letter from Liverpool, Sept. 8,
" You enquire what are the piolpetis of emi
■;ration to America fiom these welleru parts 0
this kingdom ? I might answer, very confidera
ble, had the ufful clafsol people the a ilityoS re
moving. Old attachments, too, are not easy t<
be shaken off, tho' it be only to a naked rock,
barren heath, or the summit of a bleak mountain
We despise a hog for being, to all appearancc
contented with a muddy five, and yet I do affur
you the Lords of the creation, in millions of in
fiances, do so far conform to circumstances as t
enjoy apparent happiness in situations very littl
belter. Ignorance is another cause operating t.
prevent men from changing the mod abjefct an
wretched ways of life, for others, infinitely mor
comfortable, that, with a little exertion, woui
be in their power to attain. Such is the deplc
rable ignoiance exifiing in thele parts of th
kingdom, that I do allure you, there aie man
tboufands of persons here who with regard to A
merica, are in the full persuasion that even i
Ph ladelphia—the learned, the philosophical
the commercial Philadelphia, and that contains 11
her bosom the only independent legi/lation of tin
wefiern world—that the people ot thatbrillian
city never go to bed at night but under the tern
fying apprehension of being tomahawked o
scalped by thq Indian Savages before morning !
fj -J
A loiter Lulv received fu> v. Chut I*-*on
S. C.J mentions, that the rice ciops oi the pre
ier.l lea lon. are muck larger than were ever be
lore known in Cuolina. 'I lie irnmenle annual
ncreafe in the production of this uteful article,
so much in # demand ail over Luiopc, may hi
D;vm< to the following caulcs 10. Ihe grow
ing uie oF machines for beating out the rice; and.
Cecordh y the introduction of ploughs in the roon
Oi has —hv thele two improvements) a lurolus oi
negroes can he (pated lor preparing the rich
Iwamp lands for uce fields, who were heretofore
employed in heating out the nce by hand, or bj
Lediouily tuningup the landswith the hot. Ano
ther cause may be, (contrary to what is obfei vet'
nf the Weil-indies) that \>y good and human*
the number ol blacks arc found to incrfcaft
inOead of ; so that, while this con
tinues vo be the cafe, there can.be no realon so
engaging in the African trade to keep the ok
flock as has ever been the praßice in tIK
islands.
From the geheral tenor of the last turopear
papers, the new French government is now nni
ircrfally looked upon as ESTABLISHED. 'J hi;
-pinion is upon the following fadls
' No appearance of raising troops in Germany"
ar elsewhere, for the purpose ol invading the fron
;iers of France—The French refugees inconfider
il)le in number, unarmed, deflituce of resources
irid universally defpilcd by the people among
whom they have taken refuge The only often.
fible enemy on the frontiers of France are aboui
three thousand refugees, and theft en, un
armed, and unacquainted with the practice o
arms, if they had them : but their declarations
i heir manileitoes and particularly a letter to thi
king (lately published) plainly dilcover they an
tor restoring the abfolutc power of the monarch
Cringing servility to the court, insolence and op
prefiibn ovpr the people, are the ancient princi
pies of their order which they still adhere to
and one need only to read their present produc
tion# to be convinced, that the exiflence of this
corps and that of a free constitution is incompati
ble, which would not have been the cafe, hac
this body pofleffed the least spirit of independence,
Thii party is now in despair ; its thiCis havt
undeavored sco keep up their hopes by various lali<
reports ; troops have been said to be on their marcl
from Germany for these two months pall ; th<
Ruffian fleet as, according to them, failing wit!
:roops for Oftend ; a body of Cossacks was ol
its march; the king of Sweden was gone tt
fetch his Myrmidons ; the ritifh fleet proposed ar
invalion, &c. &c. To the machinations of thef<
wretches (fit only for treasons, stratagems, anc
(polls, or for perpetrating in darknefsfuch horric
scenes as the maiTacre of ' t. Bartholomew, &c.
are opposed the manly efforts of twenty-five mil
lions of freemen, who have trampled defpotifn
under foot, and are too enlightened ever to per
tuit her refurre&ion in France.
The extravagant flu&uations in the marke
price of bank scrip, (lays a New-York paper) 1
clearly imputable to the lndireft practices ot thofc
of the original fubferibers, who only (übfcribec
with a view to carry their fublcriptions to mar
ket,for it was evidently the interest of thele, t(
parry the market price as high as they could, anc
having fold at this high price, to combine so
a redu&ion thereof, (but for obvious reasons no
}uite so low as would be the probable real value
that they might repurchase, and then play a fe
:ond game by an artificial rife, and ultimately
cave their dupes to make the best of a coinmo
Jity, for which their folly or their avarice had in
iHrcd them to give a pi ice greatly beyond it:
-eal worth. —
On the second of November arrived a
Charleston, the brig Hope, Capt. Suter, fron
Newry, with 120 who it is said, hav<
:ome to fettle in the moie interior parts of South
Carolina.
To jOSI AH HARMAR, Esq.
Brigadier-General in the service of the Unite<
States, and Lieut. Colonel Commandant of th<
firft United States Regiment.
Sir,
THE officers of the firft regiment beg leave tc
;xprefs the warmth of their attachment to youi
3erfon, and that perfect fatisfa&ion which the)
iave severally experienced under your command
United as they have always been in sentiment:
)f affe&ion and friendffiip towards you, it is witl
extreme regret they are informed of your inten
aon to quit the army, if, fir, upon this interest
ng occasion your ofticers might presume their ad
ice —or would you attend to the refpe&ful so
icitatiens of men anxious for your welfare —
:hey might yet hope for your continuance in th<
rvice. Bat, whatever may "be your final deter
nmation, that honor and happiness may atten<
i ou, is amongst their firft and most ardent wishes
We have the honor to be,
With perfedt esteem and refpe&,
Sir, your very humble servants.
[Signed by twenty-fix officers of the firft Uni
:ed States' Regiment.]
To the Officers of the firjl Untied States Regiment
Gentlemen,
V(,UR very affe&ionatc address of this morn
ing, claims my warmest acknowledgments.
If 1 have been so fortunate, during my com
r.and, as to give fatisfa&ion to my officers, be
lieve me, it has been reciprocal.
I fiucerely thank you, gentlemen, for your ex
pressions of affe&ion and friendfbip towards me
•nd of the obliging part you appear to take in m)
future welfare. When 1 tell you that I (hall
continue to remember you, my companions, with
.motions of friendffiip and affc&ion, and thatm)
best Vrflfhes for your liappinefs through life, '.'an
)nly.ceafe to eiill with myfeif, I beg you to re
:eivc it as the genuine effullon ol my r.'.Ut.
1 have the honor to be,
With [lie mofl affectionate regard.
Gentlemen,
Your molt obedient fervanr,
J. H A R M A R, B. G.
Fort-Washing!on, Augutl 1 , 1791.
It is aflVrted in a late French paper, that the
Ahbe Ravnal was not the rralauthoi of thewoik
rmitled, " The llijlotycf the F.Urcpiati Ffltiblifh
wunts in the Eaji ahd H'rJl-hrdtts." —h is ih.ro
held up as the uuited production of several celr- "
brated pari iotic chaiafters who have Gntc ap
peared in the French national a (Terribly.—At the
fii ft publication of this work in Fmncc, the pe
riod had not yet arrived when freedom of Ipert
or of the press, was tolerated. The confe
rence w;fs, that the Abbe found himfelf under
ihe necefiitv of flying from the kingdom, in or
der to avoid the fury of the clergy and titled no
bility, who were alike intercued in keeping the
nation ignorant of the principles of liberty, lo
ably maintained in that celebrated performance,
md -which they law, mull soon {hake the foun
dations of atillocracy, piieflcraft, and delpoiilm,
f fullered to be published, and disseminated thio'
;he kingdom.—What seems, in some meafuie,
:o confirm the truth of the above idea, with re
pe£l to the Abbe Raynal being only the often
rhle author of this work, is, the infignificant part
be has ailed during the revolution in France ; ill
which, indirect oppolition to the manly pnnci
piesinculcated in his reputed woik, he look part
with the concealed enemi'sof his country, and
Droved himfeLf, by the subsequent effulions ot Ins
Den, the whining advocate of ar/Jlocracy.
Meteorological Observations.
November 1791.
D. H. Bat. Ther. Wind. Weather.
Monday, 21.730. 1 36 n.e .Cloudy.
2 29. Q 55 s. w. Ruin,
luejday, 22. 7 29. 9 3 n.w. Cloudy.
2 30. 047 do. Fair,
'i'ednrfday, 23. 7 30. 1 33 w. [Fair.
2 3°- 1 53 s - w •\ditto.
Ihurjday, 24. 7 go. o 37 n. E.lCloudy.
2 29. 85 55 s. E.ldiitO.
Friday, 25. 7 29. 45 49 w.i Cloudy.
2 29. 541 do. !ditto.
Saturday, 26. 7)30. o 31 k.w.{Cloudy.
2 j3°- o 37 do. Fair.
Sunday, 27. 7'30. 15 25 N.w. Fair.
2 ; 3Q. 3 47 s. w. ditto.
%* The readers of the National Gazette
nay rely on the accuracy of the above obftr
:iations-~Mr. Rittenhouse having been
r :0 obliging, at the editor's request, tofumifi
'his valuable articlefor every Monday's paper.
Intelligence is received from Cape-Francois till
:be 3d inft. at which time every thing wore the
"ame gluomy afpe£l, with refpedt to the Negro in
"urreCtion, as heretofore. The infurnenis liad
loft no ground, aud in every (kirmiih and enga«<-
Ticnt with ihe whites, ailed like men derermmed
0 die or carry their point—of becoming indepen
dent pofTeliors ot" the Il'and. A veii'el had arri
ic th* Cape about the 28th of October from Old
~rance, which brought an account of an em
...kation that was to. take place there, on the
i2ch of O&ober, of tour tboufand troops, und,*r
:ount Dillon, for French Hifpaniola, in order t:>
oin the illar.d forces, and, it pofiible, reduce the
■evolters. On the 3d inft, flour was four and an
ulf dollars per barrel at the Cape, and pork ac
en.
Another account (N*>v. 2) of the moll recent
proceeding? in the illand, is as follows :
Three camps in the territory of Lioibe are ta
: n—Yefleiday we took the Camp Alquier, with
lie lass of" fix volunteers wounded and one killed.
>Ve kil.led 150 negroes ?nd wounded-a gieat nunj
.eii. The insurgents are now coming in daily, and
1 greatnumber ot' white women prisoners among the
Negroes have been by their means brought off, &
ent to the Cape. There is profpedt of a per
r.ar.ent accommodation with the mulattoes, upon
iur graniing them the enjoyment of the ptivileges of
he decree of the 15th of May, which places their
reedorn upon an equal footing with that of the
vhites.
PRICE or STOCKS.
Funded Debt.
Si* per cents, - - - - - 21/10.
Three per cents, ... 12/4.
Deferred fix per cents, - jif. to i^Jz.
Unfunded Debt.
Final settlements, - 19/6. to 2cf.
Indents, - - lj/6.
Eank fcriprs, - - 140 to 14.3 dollars
JUST PUBLISHED,
and tor Pale by
THOMAS LANG,
No. 31, Church alley ;
An Essay on
COMMERCE and LUXURY.
le-printea from the London ediiion—Price 1/6.
(C/" The merit of this work will be acknow
edgea by every judicious reader. The re-publi
ation of it in this country, at this time, has been
Jvifed by feveial enlightened patriots. Tbefe
tifh to promote our national commerce, on the ba
is of agriculture and industry, aid free from the
>afe alloy of imposition and gaming. They set n
iroper value on the conveniences and ornaments
f civilized life ; but detest that luxury which is
be offspring of a frivolous tafle, and the mother
f profligacy, difhonefly, poverty, of number
efs private and public vices and mitfortuoes.
Nov. 28. 6t.e.t.Written on the Hills of tie Neversink, nrcr
Sar.dy-Hcok, yuly t 1791.
THESE heights, the pride of all the coast,
What happy Genius plann'd,
Aspiring o'er the diflant wave,
That finks the neighboring land !
These hills, forfolitude defign'd,
This bold and broken shore j
These haunts, impervious to the wind,
Tp 11 oaks, that to the temped bend,
Hilf Druid, I adore !
The lapse of time and change of lords,
Beholds you fti'l the fame;
You favv the angry Briton come,
You favv his blasted fame.
"With towering crest, you firft are doomed,
The news of Land to tell;
To him that comes, frefli joys impart,
To him that goes,'a heavy heart,
The lover's long farewell.
In early days, and vanifh'd year?,
To rougher toils refign'd,
You favv me rove in search of care,
And leave true bliss behind :
Ycu saw me rig the barque so trim,
To trace a tirefeme road ;
By viintry leas, and tempers c'nac'd
You favv me o'er the ocean ha:ie,
A comfortlefs abode !
Your fnaded springs of azure blu?,
Vv nat luxuiy to tip j
As from the mountain's bread thev (low
To moisten Celiacs lip !
In rude retirements herd the deer,
Where forjfts round them rile,
Dark groves (their tops in ether lo!l)
"VVhicbj haunted dill bv Hctddv's good,
The trembling rustic flies.
Proud heights ! with pain so often seen
J qui: your view no more j
And fee, unmov'd, the palling faji,
Tenacious of the /bore : —
Let those, who pant for wealth or fame,
Pursue the watry road 5
Soft sleep and eafe—-bleil days and nights,
And health, attend these favorite heights,
Retirement's blefl abode.
Sine AT.
TO THE PUBLIC.
A Lover of ufeful knowledge,in [London, havin
some time ago offered, as a donation to th
American Philosophical Society, held at Philadel
phia for promoting ufeful knowledge, the sum of tw.
hundred guineas, to be by them veiled in a fecur
and permanent fund, to the end that the interei
ariftng therefrom should be annually disposed of ii
premiums, to be adjudged by the society, to th
author of the bed discovery, or moll ufeful inven
tion, relating to navigation, albonomy or na
tural philosophy (mere natural hiitory only ex
cepted) ; and the society having accepted of th
above donation, hereby publish the conditions pre
scribed by the donor, and agreed to by the focie
ty upon which the fairi annual premiums will b
awarded.
id. The Candidate (hall fend his discovery
invention or improvment, addrefled to the prefi
dent or one of the vice-presidents of the society
-f- free of podage or other charges ; and shall dif
tinguifli his performance by some motto, devic
or Signature, and fubferibed with the real nan:
and place of reftdcnce of the author.
2. Persons of any nation, ledl or denominati
on whatever, shall be admitted as candidates so
this premium.
3. No discovery, invention or improvemen
shall be entitled to this premium which hath beei
already publilhed, or for which the author hath bee:
publicly rewarded elsewhere.
4. The candidate shall communicate his disco
very, invention or improvement either in the En
glilh, French, German or Latin languages.
5. All such communications shall be public!
read, or exhibited to the society, at foine date,
meeting, not less one month previous to th
day of adjudication, and shall at all times be opei
to the infpettion of such members as shall defir
it. But no member shall carry home with hin
the communication, description, or model excep
the officer to whom it shall be intruded : nor fha!
such officer part with the fame out of his Cudody
without a special order of the society for that pur
pose.
6. • The society having previously referred th
feverai communications," liom candidates for tli
premium then depending, to the Consideration o
the tweive counsellors and other officers of the so
ciety. and having received their report thereon
fhali, at one of their dated meetings in the montl
of December, annually, afFer the expiration of thi
current year (of the time 2nd place, together witl
the particular occation of which meeting, due no
tice shall be previously given, by public advertise
ment) proceed to the final adjudication of the fai<
premium j and after due corrfid era tion had, a voti
iljall firft betaken on this quedion, viz. •* whe
ther any of the communications then under in
J*Jt£ron be ' worrhy of the proposed premium
•" If this quedion fha!! be determined in the ne
gative, the whole bufinds fhrflr be deferred til
another year : but if in the affirmative, the focie
ty /hall then proceed to determine by ballot, giv
en by the members at large, the discovery, inven
tion or improvement mud ufeful and worthy j anc
that discovery, invention, or improvement, whicl
shaH be found to have a majority of concurrin|
•f At present, David Rittenho-ufc, Esq. is pre
sident of the focicty.
The Rev. Dr. John Lvving, 1
The Rev. Dr. William Smuth, > V. Pi,
And Thomas Jkffebsok/ Esq. j
name of the author announced as the person enti
tled to the fa'.d premium.
7. No member of the foci'ety who i« a candidal'
for the premium then depending, or who hath no
previously declared to the society, either by won
or writing, that he has considered and weighed, ac
cording to the heft of his judgment, thecompara
tive merits of the several claims then under con
fideration, (hall fit in judgment or give his voteii
awarding the said premium.
8. A full account of the crowned fubj?& ilia!
be publifhcd by the society as soon as may be, at
ter the adjudication, either in a separate publico,
tion, or in the next fuccecding volume of thei
tranfa&ions, or in both.
9. The performances shall remaii
under confiueration, andtheir authors be consider
ed as candidates for the premium, for J\n>e year:
next fuccecding the tirns of their prefentmem, e*
oept such performances as their authors may, ir
the mean time, think fit to withdraw. And tin
society (hail, annually, publish an abftradt of th<
cities, oljeft or fubiett matter of the communica
tions 10 under consideration 3 such only excepted
as the iociety shall think not worthy of public no
rice.
10. The letters containing the names of au
thors wiiofe performances shall be rejected, oi
ivh'ch shall be found unfuccefsful after a trial 01
five Ncars, shall bj burnt before the society, with
:>ut breaking the seals.
11. In cafe there should be a failure, in an)
j'ear, of any communication worthy of the propo
sed premium, there will then be two premiums tv
De awarded in the next year. But no accumula
ion of premiums shall entitle an author to mort
:han one premium for any one discovery, inven
•on or impre.^ment.
The premiums shall confi.l of an oval plate 0:
•' lid standard gold, of the value cf ten guineas
J7l one fide theieof shall be neatly engraved a fhor 1
-«atin motto, suited to the occasion, together witl;
hefe words, "Thepremium cf of London
fiMfied in the year 1786. And cn the other fiu»
)t the plate shall be engraved these words, Aionrr
\i Lj the A. P. S, to for Lis djcover1
f A. D. *
Prcjidcr.t.
And ri.e seal ot the society shall be annexed t(
he laid golden plate, by a ribbon palling through
i small hole near the lower edge thereof.
Republished by order of the society, at Phila
delphia, ths 7th day of O&ober, 1791.
JAMES HUTCHINSON,
ROBERT PATTERSON, /
SAMUEL MAG AW, ( SccVys.
JON A. WILLIAMS, J
rotes J.n its favour ilia 11 be fuccefsrul j and then :
and not till then, the sealed letter, accompanying
:he crowned performance, /hall be opened, and ih<
[Thtfoj.civing Political Strictures and
Ammadvcrfions are collected, and t> ut;jla:cd from
French papers, to Augujl 31/?.]
£7^AR be it from the "enlightened people c
jL Franceto eftablifii afty general principle
tcnuing to keep those persons at a oiHa:ice v.
villi lo become French citizens, or that ti.e;
(hould caftan e\e or jealous iufpicion
community ot ftrangcrs that do aftuaily refid.
amoifg us. Such a procedure would efi'tciuall*
deprive us ot the knowledge and afiiitance ot* «
great number ot men of ability, who altho' no!
born upon our foil, may nevcrthelefs be consid
ered as an acquisition to the nation.
1 here are, however, and mull be fame excepti
ons, that appear necellary to be made in regard to
that class of strangers who aie busied in inttituting
what they are pleased to call patriotic societies,
ar locietiet in which our national affairs are nude
the iubjeft of debate. These are found to be pro-
Juftive of intrigues, and from the contrary inter'
-fts and views of the members, they seem to bode
10 good to the eftabliihiiient of a rational libeity in
France.
Ihe time is at hand, when the people of an\
country whatever, that come to I ranee, (hall be
considered as Frenchmen, and enjoy every privi
lege. 1 his is the broad balls we go upon i this it
.vhat the enlightened philosophy of the age has
taught us that we owe to mankind and to our
lelves. But for the present, let us be upon our
suard. No one can tflame us for keeping a (hicl
;ye upon certain ehaiacfers, who having no vili,-
oie interest in coming among us, are jet {„ ' v „,
officious in rendering us then fervkee :
tl Tnneo DuUdos, ct aona jcrcntes."
II If we confidcr England and her citizensin
i colledlive view, we (hall find, that it is to thei,
public (pint alone the nation is indebted for all
the (upeiior advantages it enjoj;. We (hali ;,if<
perceive that these advantages, for the n.oft p.,ri,
ariiefiom caulesexternal and artificial. Wh?t an
•xample, then, is Grcat-ijriuin for France ! A
:o;intry that contains uii her relourccs within Lcr
elf, and who furpfefl'es ait her neighbours in the
(larural means of rendering lie, ft-lx bapnv ! When
:ver France ihall have brought her.agriculture to a
:ertain oegree of prrt°e£tion, and given that ener
gy to her manufaehiies, cf which a free naliun is
apabl#> ihe will fiod.herfelf n-earlj without taxes,
ind in a litoation to ensure her own tranquility,
vitiiout a dependance upon her neighbour.
M concluding the peace in 1763, England ow
d .event; millions sterling more than when the
var in 1756. This-peace was, apparently
nemo 3 glorious for England that ever Ihe fuel
nade, because (he diflated the terms, and forced
ranee, Spain, ar.d_ the Emperor to accede tjierc
•>. _ In addition to this
eta!ncd her poireffions in India, infilled upvn the
cl'ion of Canada, and a pleaded several IGands in
he Wefr-Indies to her former polFertions in those
'arts. The peace that succeeded this war, so def
iflrous to France, was as glorious to England—
>ut notwithfranding all this glory, and the eclat
_>f conquest, the consequence of their very fuccef
wouH have been fatal to England, had it nor
:een for the public spirit of the nation, which sur
mounted all dtffjcuities.
Rechoning, then, that the war preceding this
afrmentioned peace c-oft the nation seventy mil
:ens/tetling, this more than tw* and an
half millions t ; -nr.ja! of England, in
order to'keep down the i .Here it of the war debt.
1 he foreign pollciiioiis they in ihe war,
paid a very tri/img part or ihele raxes, arid ever
what they did p*y, was tnrougti trie in duett me
dium of commerce. As to Ireland, it never con
tributed any thing, and it was impolfiale to gel
any thing worth mentioning from Scotland. '1 lie
taxes, however, must be paid.— it wj- then thai
chey opened a m<ne, which was found to be ar
abundant Source ot wealth, that is to favj their ma
nufacture: . 1 hele have enabled them to ex ten c
their trade, and the extcn/ion of their trade iinc<
the year has enabled them to bear up againil
every calamity and conquer every difficulty—
Since that period the national debt has increafcc
one hundred and eighteen millions, iierling, anc
yet they ft.il find means to lay such impolitic
on See. as wiiJ pay the interest.
Ilx. In tne lucceedmg twenty-eight vears, Bri
tain was railed to a pitch of greatneis, whici
would be wholly incredible to those who had no
been eye-witnesses of the faS. it is true, the vef
fel of liate fuuered many feveie bulTettings durini
that long interval, but the public i'pirit of the na
tion always brought her faie into port, notwich
(landing the unikilfulneis or the pilots j and th
Ume, we will venture to predict, will h<
the cafe, if the nation is not again caught napping
as in the American war.—ln the fa"r a l 1783 i
required every exertion of the people to preven
the total difi'olution of the empire ; but it is re
markable, that public diiirefs in England has a
ail times Kept an even pace with individual prof
perity : while the people were enriching them
(elves, the molt exorbitant ambition and childill
projects of .the mini'iry swallowed up all the re
source* which national industry had called inti
. being.
But (till the public spirit of the nation was ne
ver abated by public misfortune. While the mi
1 niftry were contesting the point with America
whether Ihe iliould be taxed again!t their con .'en
or roc, trie nation tindi g its commerce greatl
diminished, turne'd its attention 10 interior objects
, They fell upon new modes of agriculture, to render
| der their lands more productive than formerly
and extended the art of manufacturing by ma
chines to an unprecedented degree of perfection
ihe mini(iry loft America, but the public fpiri
pation saved England. Bv falling upoi
means to double the produ&ion of the foil, ant
I exporting ten times the forrrer quantity of fom<
Important commercial articles, they atieaft dou
hied their yearly revenue.
However ambitious a nation may be, and how
ever arrogant it? ministers, they well know that i
h impofiiule lcr them to finiSer pur
p ~'c, unlcfs they can lirft deceive the people. Th
deception of ihe people was the great point will
I lie Eriiiih miniOtrs during the whole Americai
war. They exerted themselves tj inspire the na
. ':on with that vain itfve of glory, that for so ma
| ny ayes, has ra:>Je more nations than one, ilave
, to the lci cmeS or those who governed them. Th
| j cfentmcnt of the nation was to be roused, and a
! a m ans to kindle this refentmenr, they vieie per
j loaded that their in'ere.ls and glory were equal!
I concerned in the lnctefs of the American war
j ihe ?nt:-igi:cs c.f ministerial agents, the avaric.
of and money-Anders, and above all, thi
j prevailing hope that the Americans, in the end
iwou.d be com pel led to pay a share of the heav
• taxes, of which they were held up as the oftenfi
j bie caule, enabled the miniitry to keep up the po
pekr ae|t»(ion, and drain from the nation l'ubli
dies fu.Ticient for the carrying on a seven \ear
war.
IV. The repeated ill success of the Britilh arm
in the American war, only served ta add energy ti
the national fpiiit. From jear to year they an
ncipated better luck, while the Americans wer
impctcepnbly Healing their necks from under th
Criti/h joke; and aithough every year added a fe
vere burthen or new taxes to the old lift, the
were paid without a murmur, the nation bein;
prepofl'elled with an idea, that the American
would again become one people with them. No
even the revolt of the German Haves, that wer
sent to extintjuiih the liberties of America, fight
ing under the British iiandard, could eradicat
this falfe opinion. This event, as well as man
others of a fatal nature, were for a time conceale
from the people j bit it would not do j the mat
ter soon leaked our : peace was importunately de
manded j the heads of the ministry were calle
f >r j the confluence was, that the miniilry' aban
Joned tlieir piojc&s, and, if thev kept thei
heads, i: was only btcaufe their fucceiTors, think
ing they tierfij'citfes might probably be one day i
the lame predicament, had a fellow-feeling so
tiic.r brethren, end took their meaiures accord
inulv.
i v jcc v\as concluded in with the com fort
abli#. reflect in n English, that the war ha
cost tnem neai one hundred millions of pound
erling j and that America had become a fre
and independent republic. The new. miniltr
■ad the ability to lee, that the Americans wer
II a ires to old culfoms. and habits, and l»ad imbibe
r.ie prejudices us ihe Engliih too deeply .for thei:
to, be caftiy rootrii out: upon whicli they console
tne nation, hy teliing them, that * 4 lfAmeric
was 101 lto t.ie ciowji u. Britain, ihe was not so t
the treasury of London." This idea was In flan: 1
catched at } the merchants began a commeici.,
intercourse with the American itates, and alrhoug;
oiinjfleiial policy has hitherto prevented the for
matity c.f a (hidt commercial treaty, yet their in
rercourfe is every i.ay increasing, and the connex
ion no h'fs valid, than if it aid exist.
France is nor by any means upon the fame foot
in; With theUni.H States. But the complei
annihilation ot <Sfj.a tvt power, will be the onl
means to uifure a lolid foundation for iomethin
•t ne are now upon tbe pO ; Dt ofcfta
binning a free coves nment, although it must b
centered, tne pnacipks upon which this free so
vtrnnrenc is founded, are different from the p,i Bc i
plesct Amciiu, A oiimembennent or the Frenc
Pmpire, in the person of the King is look
ed tor by m .,n> de%.un, people among us, an
our neighbours are ..uxious to fee it edited : but
acanatun, v.edo byno means poflefs that kin,
of puU.e Ipmi, which could withstand such a fud
den rtvolmuH, »;id sot be ruined.
V . \» ..at could' Mr. Faint have meant by en
deavouring to persuade us that we have no con
cern or connexion with monarchy ?—As long ,;s
our departments are united by a common tie and
j common i,ire reft; as long as their attention is
reitriftcd to objetls of adminiifration only, lo
will the Constitution, which we now, with"
out blafpheniy, cull tile real monarch, be the cen
tral point o/ our ftrengrh ; and if in addition to
this, tiie executive power be faithfully administer
ed, the ofiicers ot which are tefponlible for their
conduct, the constitution mud: continue forever in
all its original purity.
VI. By declaring the monarchy hereditaiy, we
have fecuied the empire from the intrigues and
plots of deligning men, who, if they could, would
fell Franco to foreign powers that hate us, fear us,
and are jealous «l our natural advantages—Tnia
puint fnlures our liberty and prcvents-delootifmf.om
creeping into our .government. What has be
come of Poland, with her elective monarch ?—
Mas file not been the sport of neighbours, who
have divided her best territories among thrru
With such an example before our eves, and ac the
moment when Poland is reiloring an herediiar*
monarchy, how is it poflible that any true Iriend
to this country, would administer the potion of
deatn, in holding up to us elediive monarc.iy or
republicanil'm > In cafe of adopting the latter,
there would be, in reality,, eighty three republics
in trance } the hopeful fruits of their infernal po
licy,
Suppoling America surrounded by ambitious
neighbours j and luppofing Rhoae-lfland, who lo
obllinateJy refufed her acceflion to the union—
to have elkiteu a separation inttead of being re
united to the other ltates : By this time we fiiould
have lee a the dillintt iovereignties of Kentuckey,
Vermont, and Rhode-llland, in the feverai bo
soms ot which would have appeared a set of tur
bulent demagogues, or a tyrannical aristocracy,
which would have already begun the difi'olution of
the American empire.—And indeed to fpealc
plainly, we can fee nothing that will support their
present government upon a solid foundation, ex
cept the manners and habits ot the people j and
this only upon a supposition cf uninterrupted pa
cidcation.
VII. The political morals of Louis XVI.
have been wholly founded upon u-hat his cour-'
tiers called the Old Tefiainent of France, meaning
the antient despotic government. it will be hap-
Py nim, ir he wilj adopc the AVw Ttflumci.c,
given hiui oy the people, as the only rule 01 work
ing out his political lalvation, and will conudijr
it as his best title to royalty, and not heiitate 10
|'ut lis name to it, without further delay. His
individual happiness is linked with that or" France;
and he will find his new authority worth far more
than that which he has let—it will not, indeea,
be an omnipotence, which, as having no rational
limits, may be called in queition at every step he
takes. Louis the fifteenth, the constitutional
Louis, will now be every thing that he to
<e, since it is certain, that without tne law his
Superior, he is nothing.
ROBERT SMO GK,
Woollen Draper 'Id' Mcrccr,
lias jt'jt received by the Jhijj Pigou, frcin London,
and for jale at his Store, on tbe north enfi corner
of Market and Third fir ecu, I'Li adt ft,a,
AN r.LEGANT ASSORTMENT OF
SUPERIINE and super broadcoths, in alruoft
every colour.
Ladies fuperfine habit cloths,in the mo!t,fafhion
able colours.
Superfine cafiimers, do.
Do. and super elastic striped cloths.
Milled drabs and hunters cloths.
A variety of fancy waist coating, in f,ik, frlk and
cotton, fiik moiefkin, calTimers | routed and
tamboured, and iuperfiae ftrjped Spani/h taih
nets.
Mens black fattins, florcntines, anJ fj.k p.unel.'as
cf superior qualites
Silk, silk and cotton, cotton and woifted hose,
aflorted.
Sattins and mantuas, a beautiful variety.
Superfine rattinets, with a large collection of best
trimmings for cloths, £:c. of every quality,
i.ioreens, joans Jurants and caliman
coes.
Haifbint; andcamblets, &c.
9-8 wide luperiine Marseilles quilting with bor
dsrs.
Marseilles bedquilts and catton counterpanes, 9-4
to 32-4.
Inlanders beJbunts and bedtickings.
A beautiful variety 0/ chintzes and cottons.
An elegant ah ltment of yard wide furniture
chintzes, in beautiful colours and patterns,
with a large variety of furniture cottons.
Velveteens, velvets, corauroyj, thickfcts, fancy
coros, flockincts, royal riht., fattinets, hair
plushes, See, Seem
StripcJ a/wi grey, twilled and pl/in Bath coatings.
Rose LUiikets aii^rtec.
ROBERT SMOCK has also for Sale, a great
Variety of GOODS of the belt quality in vhe:r
J-veral kinds. He presumes it is Ainacce<r>ry to
be more particular in the cnumeratiuii, and that
it is luflicien: to lay the afl'ortment i.s very gene
ral ami cxtrnfive, coniifting of abnoft every arti
cle in his line of bufinrfs.—Being tiefuQUS of giv
ing entire fati&fadtion tothofe who may be please
to favour him with their custom, as v, '»
as c f meriting a continuance of tho: :ui
tomers, whole favours he has hkherto er f .Sli
ced, he flatters himfeli tbt xhcapnejs of h.3 GiAids
will be die best means of etfe&iftg his w»'he .
A few Copies cf the Report of th: Secret r-n'
of State on the fubjeß, of the Cod and Whale
Fijheries— may be had at the office. No, -39,
High-Jtreet.
printed by
CHILDS and SWAIN E,
AT THEIR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIGH-STHi £ T »
MAR SIXTH-STREET,
1 PHILADELPHIA.