Vol. I.
AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the fir ft Sefiion, begun and held at the city ol
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennfylvani?
on Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thousand leven hundred and ninety-ore.
An ACT concerning certain Fisheries 0)
the United States, and for the Regulation
and Government of the Fijhermen employ
ed therein.
BE i tenac ted by the Sznatean d K o us i
of the Unitec
States of America, in Congress ajjembled,
That the allowance now made upon the
exportation of dried fifh of the fifheries
of the United States, in lieu of a draw
back of the duties paid on the fait used
in perferving the fame, shall cease on all
dried fifh exported after the tenth day
of June next, and as a commutation and
equivalent therefor, there shall be after
wards paid on the lad day of Decem
ber annually, to the owner of every ves
sel or his agent, by the colLe&or of the
diftrift where such vessel may belong,
that shall be qualified agreeably to law.
for carrying on the bank and other cod
fifheries, and that shall actually have
been employed therein at sea tor the
term of four months at the lead, of the
fifhing season, next preceding whicl:
season is accounted to be from the lafl
day of February to the lafl day of No
vember in every year, for each and eve
ry ton of such vessel's burthen accord
ing ail".i.<:fatcincnt-ast:ccnfcd 0;
enrolled, if of twenty tons and not ex
ceeding thirty tons, one and an hall
dollars and if above thirty tons, two anc
an half dollars of which allowance afore
faid, three eighth parts shall accrue anc
belong to the owner of such fifhing ves
sel, and the other five eights thereof
shall be divided by him, his agent 01
lawful representative, to and among the
several fifnermen who shall have b?er
employed in such vessel during the lea
son aforefaid, or a part thereof, as the
cafe may be, in such proportions as the
fifh they shall refpetlively have taker
may bear to the whole quantity of fifh
taken on board such vessel during such
season: Provided, That the allowance
aforefaid on any one vessel, for one lea
fon, shall not exceed one hundred anc
seventy dollars.
And be it further enaEled, That on the
last day of December annually, as afore
said, there shall also be paid to the own
er of every fifhing boat or vessel of more
than five tons, and less than twent)
tons, or to his agent or lawful represen
tative, by the collector of the diftrifl
where such boat or vessel may belong
the sum of one dollar upon every tor
admeasurement of such boat or vessel
which allowance shall be accounted foi
as part of the proceeds of the fares o:
said boat or vessel, and shall according
ly be so divided among all persons inter
efted therein : Provided however, Thai
this allowance shall be made only tc
such boats or vessels as shall have actu
ally been employed at lea in the cod
fifhery, for the term of four months al
the least, of the preceeding season :
And provided also, That such boat or ves
sel shall have landed in the course ol
said preceding season, a quantity of fifh
not less than twelve quintals for every
ton of her admeasurement ; the said
quantity of fifh to be ascertained when
dried and cured fit for exportation, and
according to the weight thereof, as the
fame shall weigh at the time of delivery
when actually fold ; which account of
the weight, with the original adjustment
and fettlementof the fare or fares among
the owners and fifhermen, together with
a written account of the length, breadth
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhed Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
THURSDAY, February 23, 1792.
nnd depth of said boat or veflel, and the
time the has aftuallv been employed in
:he fifhery in the preceeding season, shall
in all cases be produced and sworn or
affirmed to, before the said collector of
the diftrift in order to entitle the own
er, his agent or lawful representative, to
receive the allowance aforefaid. And
if at any time within one year after pay
ment of such allowance, it shall appear
that any fraud or deceit has been prac
tised in obtaining the fame, the boat or
velfel upon which such allowance shall
have been paid, if found within the dif
trift aforefaid, shall be forfeited ; other
wise the owner or owners having prac
tised such fraud or deceit, shall forfeit
and pay one hundred dollars ; to be su
ed for, recovered and appropriated in
like manner as forfeitures and penalties
are to be sued for, recovered and appro
priated for any breach of an ast, enti
tled, " An ast to provide more effectu
ally for the collection of the duties im
posed by law on goods, wares and mer
chandize imported into the United
States, and on the tonnage of ships or
veflels."
And be it farther enaSled, That the
owner or owners of every fifhing veflel
of twenty tons and upwards, his or their
agent or lawful representative, shall
previous to receiving the allowance
which is provided for in this ast, pro
duce to the collector who is authorized
to pay the fame, the original agreement
or agreements which may have been
made with the fifhermcn employed on
board such velfel, as is herein before re
quired, and also a certificate to be by
him or them fubferibed, therein menti
oning the particular days on which such
failed ar\d r«turn^4
voyages or fares, flie may have made in
the preceeding fifhing season, to the
truth of which they lhall swear or af
firm before the collector aforefaid.
And be it further enaEied, That no ship
or veflel of twenty tons or upwards,
employed as aforefaid, shall be entitled
to the allowance granted by this ast,
unless the skipper or mailer thereof
shall, before he proceeds on any fifhing
voyage, make an agreement in writing
or in print, with every fifherman em
ployed therein, excepting only any ap
prentice or servant of hitnl'elfor owner
and in addition to such terms of ship
ment as may be agreed on, shall in fuel
agreement express whether the fame i;
:o continue for one voyage or for the
fifhing season, and shall also exprefi
that the fifh or the proceeds of such
fifhing voyage or voyages which may
appertain to the fifhermen, shall be di
vided among them in proportion to the
quantities or number of said fill:
they may refpeftively have caught
which agreement shall be endorsed 01
counterfigncd by the owner of such fifh
ing veflel, or his agent : And if any fifh
erman having engaged himfelf for a voy
age or for the fifhing season, in any fifh
ing veflel, and signed an agreemen
therefor as aforefaid, shall thereaftei
and while such agreement remains ir
force and to be performed, desert or ab
lent himfelf from such veflel, withou
leave of the mailer or skipper thereof
or of the owner or his agent, such de
ferter shall be liable to the fame penal
ties as deserting seamen or mariners arc
fubjeft to in the merchants service, anc
may in the like manner, and upon th(
like complaint and proof, be appre
hended and detained : and all colts o:
process and commitment, if paid by the
master or owner, shall be deducted ou
□f the share of fifh, or proceeds of any
fifhing voyage to which such defertei
had or shall become entitled. And an)
fifherman, having engaged himfelf a:
aforefaid, who shall during such fifhing
voyage, refufe or ncgleft his proper du
ty on board the fifhing veflel, being
thereto ordered or required by the mas
ter or Ikipper thereof, or shall otherwise
resist his jufl commands, in ihe hind
ranee or detriment of such voyage, be
fide being answerable for all damage:
ariling thereby, shall forfeit to the use
as the owner of such vessel, his share oi
'.he allowance, which shall be paid up
sn such voyage as is herein granted.
And be it further tnacled, That where
an agreement or contrast shall be fc
nark'and signed, for a fifhing voyage 01
Tor the fifhing season, and any filh which
nay have been caught on board such
veffc'. during the fame, shall be deliver
:d tc-the owner or to his agent, for cure,
and (hall be fold by laid owner or agent,
[uch velfcl shall for the term of fix
months after such sale, be liable and
answerable for the skipper's and every
Dther fifherman's share of such fifh, and
may be proceeded again (I in the fame
form, and to the fame effect, as any
sther vessel is by law liable, and may be
proceeded against for the wages of sea
men or mariners in the merchant's fer
fice. And upon such process for the
value of a share or shares of the pro
:eeds of fifh delivered and fold as afore
said, it shall be incumbent on the own
:r or his agent, to produce a just ac
:ouii£ of the sales and division of such
Fish according to such agreement or con
tact, otherwise the said vessel shall be
infwerable upon such process for whai
may be the highest value of the share o:
["hares demanded. But in all cases, the
owner of such vessel or his agent, ap
pea ing to anfwerto such process, may
offe:' thereupon his account of genera
lupp'ies made for such fifhing voyage
and of other supplies therefor made, t<
either of the demandants, and shall bi
aUwedto produce evidence thereof ii
ani '/er to their demands respectively
x fhs'l renderer! nrioi
such process, for the rclpective balances
which upon such an enquiry shall ap
pear : Provided always, That when pro
cess fliall be issued against any vessel lia
ble as aforefaid, if the owner thereof o:
his agent will give bond to each fifher
man in whole favor such process fhal
be inflitutcd, with fufficient security, t<
the fatisfaction of two justices of th<
peace, one of whom fliall be named b)
such owner or agent, and the other b)
the fifherman or fifhermen purfuins
such process ; or if either party shall re
fufe, then the juflice firft appointed fhal
name his associate, with condition to an
fwer and pay whatever sum shall be re
covered by him or them on such pro
cess, there shall be an immediate dif
charge of such vessel : Provided, Tha
nothing herein contained shall preven
any fifherman from having his action a
common law, for his share or shares o
fifh, or the proceeds thereof as afore
said.
And be it further enacied, That th<
drawback heretofore allowed on the ex
portation of foreign dried and picklec
fifh, and other foreign salted provisions
be and the fame is hereby repealed.
And be it further enabled, That the mo
nies which shall remain in consequence
of the abolition of the allowance on the
exportation of the dried fifh of the
United States, and of the drawback or
foreign dried and pickled fifh, and othei
foreign salted provisions, be, and the
fame are hereby appropriated to the
payment of the allowances granted by
this act, and in cafe the monies so ap
propriated shall be inadequate, the
deficiency shall be supplied out of any
monies which from time to time fhaf
be in thetreafury of the United States,
and not otherwise appropriated.
And be it further enacted, That any
person who shall declare falfely in any
oath or affirmation required by this
act, being duly convicted thereof
in any court of the United States,
having jurisdiction of such offence,
shall fuffer the fame penalties as are
provided for falfe swearing or affirm
ing, by the act before-mentioned, and to
be in like manner sued for, recovered
and appropriated.
Numb. 34:
And be it further enabled, That this ast
shall continue and be in force for the
erm of (even years, and from thence to
he end of the next felTion of Congress,
ind no longer.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of the
House of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President of tin
United States, and President
of the Senate.
Approved, February fxteentk, 1792.
G. Washington, President of the
United States.
Tranjlatior. of an Original Slate Paper recently
reamedfrom Cape Francois. J
of tile National Civil Deputies to the
Persons assembled at Crax-des-Bouquets. *
Cape Francois, Dec. at. 179 1.
WE returned an answer to the letter
-vhich was handed to us by M. M. Malef
:ot and Ruette : it is dated the Bth inft.
ind is written in the name of the members
if the military administrative council, and
he deputies from the several parishes of
iie western department, assembled" at
-roix-des-Bou ,uets. We replied, in like
iianner, to the paper received by the post,
entitled, " the address of the people of
:olour of the western department," dated
:he fame day and at the fame place. —These
lieces contain ift. a brief account ofthe vari
ous disastrous events which have taken place
trom the commencement of the revolution
to the date of your letter. 2d. The de
mand of ccrtain political rights in favour
of the mulattoes, founded on the declara
tion of the rights of man and citizenihip, as
well as upon the edicts of March 8. and
Ottober 12, 1790, and May 15, and Sept.
24, 1791. 3d. Your for conclud
ing your pretended treaty of peace of the
2311. of October lift, which you hold up to
us as the only means of saving the colony ;
and which opinion you fuppoi t by repre
senting to 11s the tranquil state of the west
ern and southern diftrifts, while the north
ern is convulsed by a general infurreftion.
And lastly, these dispatches express the de
lire you entertain of feeing us with you at
Croix-des-Bouquets.
We Jhould be unworthy of the character
with which we are iuvefted, if we did not,
in the firtt place, acknowledge our refpeft
for thole principles, which " permit you
not to doubt, that the prosperity of the co
lony is inseparable from the individual hap
piness of those who compose it." We do
not doubt that these principles, cultivated
under legal forms, and in the calm of peace,
might in the end induce the white people
at St. Domingo to grant to the mulattoes
all that could be reasonably expected ; and
to convince the latter that it is not less
their interest, than it becomes them on
principles of gratitude, to yield, in their
turn, to the whites of the colony, the pri
vileges they ought to enjoy.
Wefhouldbe fearful of offending you,
it we entertained theleaft doubt of the pu
rity of your motives. But we should be
:ray your confidence in us, in concealing
From you how very culpable we hold you,
n relisting the voice of reason. Listen to
as, then, with sincerity, divert yourselves
as all partiality, forget your own personal
injuries, and by your obedience to the
Law, put us in a situation to join our medi-
Ition to yours, in procuring for the mulat
toes the immunities which, in justice, they
aught to poilefs.
We will now take into consideration the
:ontents of the letter and address. First—
The title afi'umed by the signers of the let
ter can only exist in a state of disorder aud
inarchy, and which you cannot avail your
lelves of much longer unless you avow
yourselves to be in open rebellion. Indeed,
is it poflible that there can legally exist an
irmy of lourteen confederated parishes, to
compel the reft to submit to them ? Altho'
this army were conflitutionally appointed,
could it deliberate upon and form refolu
t 011s ? Could its administrative council be
employed otherwise than in the interior re
gulations of the army ? would it be not on
ly independent of the king':, representative,
•Sfr Persons [supposed to be chiefly retainers to the
irijlocrataalfattion in Francej who had incorpo
rated themselves with an army of Mulattoes to de
mand the repeal of the a£l of the National AJfem
bly disallowing the Mulattoes of St. Domingo
•.qualprivileges with the whites of that colony.hut even dictate orders to hi in ? would they
mate an ill use of theirJtrength at the pre
sent moment in demanding that [belides the
formation of primary ever}
coniututional principle should be violated
in hefe atiemblies, either by overt .ruing
the fyltem of colonial laws for freemen, to
in.t.tute new ones ; or by revoking irrevo
cable deputations, and annihilating the acl-
Uiimitrative bodies ?—Such, however, will
be the ruinous consequences of your con
federation, notwitliftanding the purity 01
your principles. They are the
of the nation and of the king, who now ad
dref you, and would be sorry you did not
repose in them the confidence that is due.
Secoud.y, We (hall not spend time in re
cap tulating facts which have taken place
in tins lfland since the revolution. Let us
baauh forever from our remembrance tlic
fuipictons, feuds, vengeance, proi'criptions,
murders, conflagrations and enormities ol
every species. In a national convulsion,
like ours, who can reiift a torrent, and
liow small is the number of irreproachable
characters in comparison of thofg who have
been active in evil, and frequently l"o upon
a misunderstanding of things—mull ail be
puniined indiscriminately ; the mis-led
equally with the wicked and designing ? —
and are these diilinguuhable 111 the general
coiifu ion of events, appearances, public
rumour , and prejudices of parties ? let
us refpett tne citizen who has never loft
ii"ht of the moral andpolitical duties ; but
let u once more reciprocally pardon each
otiier for tnofe injurious proceed,ngs which
it was not in our power to prevent, any
more than if we had both been under the
dcl.num of a fever. Let us imitate the
IsaLKm.il, Atfembly and the king. He has
immortalized the era of his reign in accept
ing the constitution, and iiguiug an ad of
general amnpftv.
[To be continued.J
PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, lebruary 20.
A mefiiage was delivered by Mr. Secre
tary Lear, informi ig the House that the
President of the United States had this day
approved and signed an ast to eltabiifh the
Pol-otfice and Poit-roads within the United
States.
Mr. VVilliamfon presented a memorial
from sundry inhabitants of the Itate of
No-th-Carolina, who were engaged in
ctiuinerce previous to chelate revolution,
complaining of the grievances enta led on
them by the tender-laws in the firft in
stance. and their being since obliged to pay
their tranf-atlantic creditors in specie.—
Referred (in like manner, as a similar me
morial from South-Carolina) to a commit
tee of the whole House 011 the (late of the
Union.
The House then resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole, on the Represen
tation Bill ; —Mr Livermore in the chair.
A motion was made by Mr. Seney, to
ft ', ce out the third and fourth lections, in
which provision is made for the ratio and
apportionment o representation, upon the
next census, whi.his intended to be made
in the year 1797.
The que tion being thereon taken, and
having palled 111 the negative
Mot.oris were severally made, for filling
up the blank or the ratio, with 40.000, —
35,000 —and 33,000 ; —thefe hav
ing all failed, the ratio of one to thirty
thousand fame which has already been
fe 'led for the next apportionment) was
ag. eed to ; — \ eas, 2" ; Inays, 20 or 21.
Tne committee then rose ; and having
reported the bill with the amendments,
The House immediately proceeded to
take the lame into coniideration.
The amendments to the firitfection were
agreed to, —the ratio of one to thirty thcu
/and, for the next apportionment,—the
number of Representatives as follows, —
N. Hamplhire, 4 ; Maflachufetts, 15 ; Ver
mont, 2 ; Rhode-Island, 2 ; Connecticut,
7 ; N. York, n ; N. jersey, 5; Pennsyl
vania, 14 ; Delaware, 1 ; Maryland, 9 ;
Virginia, 21 ; Kentucky, 2 j N. Caroli
na 11 ; Georgia, 2.
A motion, made by Mr. Dayton, to
strike out the second lection, which pro
vides for a second enumeration, before the
expiration of the term iiinaed by the con
fticution, patted in the negative ;
leas, 23 ; iNavs, 26.
■i EAs —Meiirs. Barnwell, Boudinot, S.
Bourne. B. Bourne, Clarke. Dayton, <>il
man, .oodhue, Hillhoufe, Key, Kitcheil,
Learned, Livermore, Mies, Schoonma
ker. seney, I bm.th, Sturges, Silveiter,
1. txher, Tredweil, Tucker, White—^3.
Is ays— Messrs Alhe, Baldwin, Brown,
F ndley, Fitzlimons, Gregg, L rittin, Urove,
Harciey, Huger, Kittera. Laurance, Ma
con. Madison, Moore, Muhlenberg, Mur
ray, Parker, W. Smith, Steele, Sterrett,
Sump.er, V enable. Vi ang, Wayne, Wil
lis. —so.
The question was then taken, on agree
i ig witn ttie committee, in filling up the
blanks for the time of the next enumerati
on, with " the firft Monday of January ir
the year 1796 —and pafied in the affirma
tive. •»
Other amendments being agreed to,
Mr. Seney renewed his motion, for strik
ing out the third and fourth section; on
which, the question being taken, pafied is
the negative ; Yeas, 25 ; Nays; lb.
YEAs—Meffrs. Barnwell, Boudinot, S.
Bourne, B. Bourne, Clarke, Dayton, Gil
man, Goodhue, Gregg, Hillhoufe, Jacob;.
Key, Kitchell, Livermore, Moore, Niles,
Page, Schoomnaker, Seney, J. Smith, I.
Smith, Sturges, Silvester, Thatcher, Tuck
er—25
Nays—Messrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Benfon.
Brown, Findley, Fitzfimons, Griffin, Grove.
Hartley. H'uger, Kittsra,- Laurance, Ma
con, Madison, Muhlenberg, Murray, Park
er, W. Smith, Sterret, 7 Sumpter, Tred
well. Venable, Vining, Wayne, White
Willis—26
The question was now taken on agree
ing with the committee in filling up tht
blank in the third feition, with thirty (Afujant
as the ratio of representation after the fe
cond census, —and pafied in the affirma
tive ; —Yeas, 29 ; —NaySf 22.
Yeas —Mefirs. Afhe, Baldwin, Benfon
Brown, Findley, Fitzfimons,Griffin, Hartley
Hnger, Key, Laurance, Macon, Madison.
Muhlenberg, Murray, Page, Parker
Schooumaker, Seney, Sterrett, Sumpter
Silvester, Tredweli, Tucker, Venable
Vining, Wayne, White, Willis— 29.
Nays—Meflrs. Barnwell, Boudinot, S
Bourne, B. Bourne, Clarke, Dayton, Gil
man, Goodhue, Greg£, Hillhoufe, Jacobs
Kitchell. Kittera, Learned, Livermore
Moore, Niles, J. Smith, I.Smith, W.Smith
Sturges, Thatcher—22.
After further amendments, the bill wa
ordered to be engroiled for a third read
ing.
The House again resolved itfelf into ;
conftnittee of the whole, on the " bil: pro
viding for the settlement of the claims o
persons, under particular circumstances
barred by the limitations heretofore efca
blilhed and having gone through thi
fame, and reported it with amendments
which the House immediately proceeded t(
consider.
A motion, made to recommit the bill
was (uper.eded by a motion for adjourn
ment, which wa- carried.
Previous to adjournment, Mr. Liver
more laid 011 the the following relo
lution ;
" Whereas the late Major General N
Greene, 011 the Bth day of April, 1783, tin
more effettualiy to proci re rat.oil: and flip
plies for the l'outbern army of the
3tntebee lie bound <t> i'uretv tor joiu
Ban!:- and Co. to Kewcomen and Collet
merchants, in Charleston, for the paymen
of f. 8-43 : 1 j : 6 sterling money, bein;
the condition of the said bond; —ant
whereas, on the Ift of May 17 86, the ba
lance of principal and interest of said bont
being[. 8688 : 6 sterling, wa. paid by th<
said eneral Greene ; —therefore,
" Resolved, That the United States wil
indemnify the estate of the said Gen
Greene for the said sum lait mentioned
and the interest thereofProvtled tht
executors of the said General Greene thai
account for alum, being about £■ 2,00 c
;be the fame more or less) recovered o;
[ohn Service, : one of the partners of tht
said Banks and Co. to be in part of tht
indemnification aforefaid; and alio llial
make over, for the life of the United States
nil mortgages, bonds, covenants.a d othe;
rounter-fecurities whatsoever, now due
which were obtained by the said < enera
Greene in his life-time, from the ft
Ranks and Co. on account of his be.ns
surety for him as aforefaid, to .be sued i'ol
111 the name of the said executors, for tht
use of the United States ; and that a com
nittee be appointed to bring in a bill. t<
;nable the officers of the treasury to earn
:his resolution into effect."
Tuesday, Feb. 21.
A message from the Senate, by Mr. Se
cretarv Otis, informing the House that thi
Senate have agreed to all the amendment
proposed by the House to the bill reiativ.
to the election of a President and vice Pre
fident of the United States, See. except th<
last, to which they disagree.
This amendment was to strike out the
)th feftion, and to substitute a clause whicl
provides that the double vacancy in tht
office of President and vice- President, ilia!
be filled by the Secretary of state for tht
time being.
The Secretary also informed the House
that the Senate have chosen a committee
cor.fifting of Mr. Sherman, Mr. Langdoi
and Mr. Strong, to confer with such com
mittee as the House may fee proper to ap
point, respecting the bufinel's neceflary t<
be ailed upon previous to a recess, whicl
they propose should commence the ili
Tuesday in April next.
The representation bill was brought ir
engrolfed, the blanks filled up, and tht
bill palled"-—ayes 34, noes 16.
The House took the message from tli.
Senate into consideration, and concurreci
with them in the appointment of a com
mittee to confer refpeiling a recess, ant.
tbofe Meflrs. Goodhue, Wadfworth, Laa
rance, Sterrett and White on their part.
Tin? d (agreement of the Senate to the
last amendment 6f the House to the above
bill, was taken into corifidefation,
It was moved to recede from this amend
ment • This morion revived the former
difciifliou of this fubje£l. The quellion be
ing put, the motion to recede was carried
in the affirmative— ayes 31, noqs 24.
The House proceeded in the considera
tion o+" the amendments to the bill provi
ding for the lettlernent of the claims of
certain persons, under particular circum
stances, barred by the limitations hereto
fore eftabiifhed.
Other amendments were made, and the
bill ordered to be engrofied for a third
reading.
In committee of the whole on the militia
bill. Mr. W. Smith in the chair.
The firft feftion being read—a motion to
amend it, by linking out part, and intro
ducing a substitute was made. This mo
tion was negatived. The committee
made further progress, and then role ai;d
reported, and the Koufe adjourned.
PHILADELPHIA.
February 23, 1792.
Three candidates 'fays a New-York paper of
the 15th inft.) are held forth tor the honorary
and lucrative office of Governor, viz. his excel
lency George Clint fn, Esq. the Hon. John Jay ;
and the Hon. Aaron Burr.
The bill for incorporating a hank (fays the
fame paper) will in a day or two engage the at
tention of our legiflatire. The expediency ot
this measure w 11 appear fiom the following
confideraiions : —10. The infufficiency of the
capital ot the prelVnt bank—2d. The dangers
attending a monopoly of this hufinefs, and, 3d.
The neceifiiy of some establishment which may
check the increasing influence of the general
government, and its ricioachments upon that ol
the Oate.—The capital ot the New-York bank
consists of 950,000 dollars : ©n this capital there
was divined, tor the lufl halt year, seven pei
cent, and a much larger one is contemplated
for (he next. Allowing, then, for expences and
the undivided fuiplus of the last half year, the
bank will, this yeai, make at lead 21 per cent.
Di(counts mufl of course, have been made tc
an am unt three times exceeding tha f of their
capital ; and yet it is well known that many
and good notes have been uniformly refufed,
and their inability alledged as the sole reason for
fucft reje£lions.
Accounts from London inform, that Mr. Cox.
of Boston, w'ho fomc ime. since built and com-
r l ' .1 . r . ..... >. riv, lias
:ontra£ied to take down the celebrated London
monument, erected between the years 1671 and
1677, to commemorate the great fire of Lon
Jon, in j666. It is said Mr. Cox is to have for
ins leivice, ten thouland pounds flnhng. For
Tiany years past, this column has been a terror
o the cuiz'T.sof London, as by some f.iilure in
he conftiuclion, one hundied f?et, 01 more, of
he upper part leans verv much and threatens
$reat deilruciion by its fail, being two hundred
ind two feet in height. The operation of tak
ng down this val) pile is considered very ha
jardous, and ads quale only to the enterpiizing
ibihtics ot M . Cox.
A fubfeription is filled for a bank at Sa
lem, 111 Maliachufett , ibe cap tai of which
is to be fifty thouland dollars It is added,
that a petition for an ao. of incorporation
will Ihortly be presented to the legislature
of that Hate.
The emigrations from the New-England
Rate , (faysau A.bany paper) to the weitern
part- of ISew-York are truly aftonilhing;
and what is worthy of particular remark,
tnefe emigrants appear all in tolerable cir
cumstances ; and molt of them go to fettle a
new ai.d xertue country, with every article
of necell iry household furniture, farming
utenuls, ltock, £>. c.
The Indians fettled at Brothertown, in
Herkemer county, we are toid, have lent a
petition to tl«e legislature of the slate of
New- V 01k, praying to be put on the foot
ing of free white citizens, except that they
do not wish the privilege of felling their
lands. They ltate as reasons for being ad
mitted as free citizens, that they have been
educated in the modes of civilized life. and
that they profefs the christian religion : ma
ay of the Indians fettled at Brothertown
can read and write, and some of them
ipeak the Englilh language with no '.mail
degree of grammatical pi operty. [_Alb.Gaz. j
'' As rivers run toward the sea (, fays Aris
totle in his treatile 011 government, lb doe
e\ery government naturally verge towards
tyranny. —Do the members or any govern
mental body ast juitly and uprightly r The)
nave done their duty , they have answered
t ne end of their creation, and are entitleci
lo our eiteem. 'I he public, too, ha made
-iiem an honorable, a geiierou . compenla
-1 on for their labours. Lxcellive pi aile ofgo
> eminent, the 1 e.-ore, fetm at fuperfiu
-011s; and, trom the general experience 01
ime, may bt pronounced pernicious, and
ought always to be fuipeft.d. Prail'c i from
aeir nature; are o.uydue where btnerito
■ e con. er. Ed by a i'upei or 0.1 an in; t. or ,
-hat is, where an act ox c/totcc is implied. i^ul,
with ?eg?rd to the tranfarcions of govern
ments, every individual elected to a partici
pation in tliat honor, can have no choice in
theprocefs ofgbor' and evil—he is inviola
bly bound to ti:e former, and the moment
!ie tranfgrefl'r s that' Gicred obligation, he
jecoijiei a tyrant."
Great enoorniums are bestowed ili France
3ii the ln:irqu;s de la Fayette .for the truly
loble and clifiiKe efted part he has acted in
:he conrfe of the French revo'ution In his
;xertlons for securing the liberties of A.ne
ica and France, it is laid, he has red - .ed
m estate yielding two hundred thoufaad li
tres a year income, to the trifling Ann of
>0,000 livre;, annual revenue sc»
[terling). He has retired to. a paternal
?ftate at Auve' gne, a pleasant and fertile
territory of France, having fuitained-an ir
reproachable character in all his public con
duct, having never countenanced in any in-
Itance the corruptions that have b«*n prac
tised. Ke has refufed all national recom
penl'e, in any ihape whatever, for his 10.3g
and meritorious services, and when it was
jropofed to njake a (ettlemeut upon hi., two
daughters, worthy the magnificence of the
French nation, he rejected the proportion
with afpirit of independence truly tharac
ceriflic of a great man.
The following compichenfive, and yet no
:lefeftive, account of the origin of the nonblc
it Avignon, 111 France, is extraQed fioui a
Leydeii Gazette, recently -received.—" On the
17th of October, a mob of seditious pcrfons,
nfligated by the priefis, affiinbled at the church
)( the Cordeliers, in Avignon, abour ten o'clock
in the noiririg, unknown to the proviftonaiy
aaminiOrarors oi the community. 1 his mob
tvas aflemhled unde{ pretence of a miracle
wrought I v the image oi the Virgin Mary,
which h id (hert teais on account of the lnluits
(fered by the Revoluticnifls to the cause of re
ligion. The niob betan by ringing the be!! :o
rtlaini the people. Finding they h,<d received
a fufficient acceflion of flrength, 11"y went to
look for tfie fecretarv of the community, M.
Lecnver whomihey drugged 10 the<h,inch r.nd
inaflacred at the foot of the high altar, after hav
g taken awav his commiHion, his watch, his
money, and his buckles. This done, thev dii
jcifed themfclves through the city, Come film
ing the gates, and others Ipiking up the can
ion on the ramparts. The government foi the.
lational aflcmbly then ordered an alarm to be
ieat, x proclaimed martial law, advancing at the
ametime towards the mutinous party wiin two
pieces of aitillerv, at ihe head of the armed citi
zens. The mutim ers then fled ; tho'not with
3ut some fc. ng taken and lent to prison. The
lext day was (pent without any thing decisive
jeingdone The Jgth, however, was a day of
dood and carnage. The dea'.h of the unfortu
lale Lecuver animated his fiiends with a tbirft
or revenge, particularly his (on, a lad 18 years
jld, whole jroans betrayed the agonies of his
leait hut yet was one among the toremofl to
even ;e his father's death. The fight of this
ad inflamed every breast, and defiruction was
nflanlly pronounced againll the miscreants who
lad committed the murder.—ln a moment they
an to the pnlons, burfl open the doors, and fa
lificed wiibout mercy all who flood in their
■vay. The misfoitune was, that in this inaifcri
minate flaug: ter, the proper diilinflion could
not be marie between the extreme guilty and the
lets guilty, between the base executioners of the
annuel fin of the clergy, and the party patriotic ;
it leaf! thole who called themfclves lueh."
Several letters, received this wee'.; from
he northward, mention the intense cy!d
.hat ha universally prevailed in Vermont,
the more northern parts of the state of
New-York, and along the borders of Ca
;ada. almost uniformly iince the middle of
January ; in Which parts it is said the mer
:ury in Farenheits thermometer had fre
[uently fallen as low as 30 degrees below
p. —In the fame parallels, 011 the sea coafl:
:he cold has not been so extreme, tlie le
gerity or the froft having been there miti
gated by strong eallerly gales, which do
not for the molt part reach more than iix
y, ftventy, or at mofl one hundred miles
nlaud. — Reportslay, that in South Caroli
na and. Georgia, even down to St. 3<;ary's
rutr, ponds and dial low rivers have been
rc 'en £0 as to bear the heavielt men with
lafety.
On the prrjait Jlatc of the Rivers.
WHILE hid fiom day, the wandering Le-
KEIGH weeps
Deep on his bed the gentle SCHUYLKILL.
creeps;
While ruthan Hudson takes a long repose
The frozen Delaware wraps his bieaftin
Itiows :
His .\ave, that bore the pile of mighty freight
Now wafts the new-foim'd sailor on the fiiait:
here once the pilot Ipread the shivering fail
Or haul'd his bowlines, to embrace the gale,
T1 ere, now ht walks, repining at his lot,
Nor cares a faithing if it blows, or not. —
flert, where whole fleets, lafe moor'd at anchor
lay
Now jcrfe) nymphs and gentle ladies dray ;
Vv heie lofty (hips with streamers cut a da{h
1 hey it.ow then ribbons, and the gay calalh;
borne, by themlelves, some convoy'd by a beau,
Ail Wdnaei hcedlcfs ofihe gulph below,
•votd or frar,on bridge thev float,
And Icoi n the aid of Charon, and his boat■Ye Herday was celebrated, in this city,
the birth-day of the PRESIDI" TsT of
the Uwr kd States; (when he entered
his C ift year) With every delllonftr'atlon oi
joy suitable to tile occafton. —At eleven
i/clock, the volunteer corps cf artillery,
cavalry and infantry paraded at the ftate
honfe. and took orders for the firing and
exercises of the day. At irlf part two, the
officers of the militia battallious t>f the city,
the northern liberties, ana southern diftritts
of Philadelphia assembled at the fame
place, together with the members of the
Pe-nfylvania state society of the Cincinnati,
from whence they went in pr ocelli on to the
house of the President of the United States.
'A variety of salutes were fired, and the
day concluded with every mark ofharmony,
good order, and utid.lfembled joy. In the
evening was exhibited an elegant display of
fire-works.
The comniilHoners some-time since ap
po:nted by the Governor of this state to
view the several roads leading from Lan
caster to Philadelphia, have reported that a
road may be made between those two pla
ces in afrraiter direction, and over a more
level country than any of the roads now in
use ; but, thatfrom the great quantitim of
heavy produce trani'ported this way, an ar
tificial road will be necefl'ary, bedded with
scone and gravel—the expence of which,
however, being beyond the present ability of
the state, it hasfbeen thoughtadvifable that a
company be formed and incorporated witl;
pov. era to raise a fufficient capital by fub
icriptiou to effect the work, and fix gates or
turnpikes, and demand toll for the use of
the road —arefolution was submitted, ac
cordingly, for the appointment of a com
mittee 10 bring in a bill to incorporate a
company for the purpose, &c.
Lxtraß. of a letter from Port-au Prince, to a gen
t.cman in New York, dated Jan. 10, 1792.
"Sincemy lad, by Capt. Moms, informing
you of the deftiu£tion of the bell part of thn
town, nothing worthy of remark has tranlpired ;
the aiiflot >atic party, with a few inulattocs and
free negroes, aie (1,11 at Sr. Croix des Bouquets,
where tliev have hoifled the white flag, and lay,
they despise the national llupes. They alio pie
fume to lay, that the island belongs to the pio
prietois here, and that no na.ion whatever has it
in then power to confiitme laws to govern them
—There is not more than two thouland of rhem
nil together. This town is well lornfiid and
guarded, io that we are under no apprchenfious
ot 1 hen being able toenki it. Troops aie d.ii
lv expected fiom France : what will be the con
ference on their arnval 1 cannot determine.—
If they Ihould not offer pardon to thole whe
w ill return to their places of abode, pofiibly the
plains may be let 011 fire. — Certainly there art
numbets who cannot expt£t a pardon, the only
way of such wiii De, to tlcape; and it is veiy
piobable numbers of them will emigrate to tht
United States."
[The following feerr.s to convey so clear and_cir
cumllantial an account of the unfortunate en
gagement with the united Indian foices, 01
the 4th of November lad, that we have judg
ed proper to inlert it entire. It is copied from
the Dumfries Gazette, of the l6th inft. as ai:
extratf of a letter from an officer who fervtd
in the expedition.]
" ON the morning of the 4th of November,
just as the men had been difmifled from parade,
a rapid attack was made upon our advance,
which was eompofed of militia, and had the
evening before been thrown over a fniall rivei
which ran along our front; they ran into camp it:
the most confufed manner, without making any
attempt to check the enemy. By the dilorderly
retreat of these cowaidly rascals, our hrll lint
was thrown into confution ; but the aiertnels ol
the officers soon remedied this daugerous event,
bv forming the men again in pioper order,
which were m iingle file, each man four feri
apart. The Indians ascended theb,mk»in our
fiont almost at the fame time with the militia,
but were checked by til? fi>e of the artillery and
Capt- Brocks'camp guard, which were polled
on thebank of the creek infiont of the centre ol
our camp. At this time fell the brave Col.
Oldham in attempting to rally the broken mili
tia. They theneiivided and ran in multitude:
round cur flanks thiough the woods, and in lomt
jr.eafute exposed to the fire of our from line a;
they passed along it. In a few minutes •::: were
completely luriounded, and the lite beeanie hoi
and general upon all quarters, but particularly
where the ai tillery was polled, which you will
fee by the draft I inclose. A charge with bayo
nets took place by the fid regiment, Gatiher's
battalion nd the left picket, which had by this
time got in and formed 011 the lefiot the fid re
giment, led 011 by Col. Dai ke in the moll gailani
manner. Such of the enemy as were opposed
to this line, fled at the approach of the bayonet,
and by fcatteiing presented no object to our
roeu; it would then become necelfary to return
to our camp and to adill the fiifl line which
were still warmly'engaged and out-flanked by the
enemy, whose fire, from under cover, was al
ways certain, and generally definitive. The
Indians followed us in turn, killing and wound
ing many of us. Another chaige was made by
the front line, but with as little effect as the
fiifl ; in thischargea pai ty of the enemyentered
by the flanks and scalped a number of our of
ficers and privat; s who lay wounded inthe tents.
They had polLfTion of our cannon, but a smart
charge by a party with bayonets difpolftlfed
them and drove them from the camp. AH the
artilieiy officers, excepting Lieut. Spear, with
mod of the matrofles were either killed 01
wounded, and the artillery ot couife fileticcd
Lieuts. Spear, Sedam andSel.umberg, of the sits
regiment, and another o&icer of he Vn ;ini;
levies, got together a few men, and let the ar
tillery again a roaring; but not being able, wit!
everv exertion in their power, to colle't as ma
ny men together as would work the pieces, am
Lieut. Spear being killed, they were again to
tally silenced, the Indians charging up to
very mouths with their tomahawks. The battl
had now raged for three hours with greet (laugh
ter on our lide, and Gen. Butler and the prea;
eft part of the officers, with fix hundred men la;
dead or. the field, and near four hundred wound
ed. It then -became necciTary to think of a re
treat, the men were all in a conFused huddle ii
one (lank of the encampment, and paid no kin<
of attention to the repeated orders oi " chargi
the load." Capt. Henry Catbeny, of the Ma
ryland battalion, with great prefencc of nnnd
mentioned, annex the words "go home" t(
charge the road, and I will engage for itshavirr
the desired effefl. Col. Darke, who had tnadt
several attempts to lead them on, m one of wind
he was wounded in the thigh, ctied out, '• Le
us, my brave fellow , charge the road and g<
home." They infiamly, with fixed bayonets
and trailed arms, broke through the Indian
like a torrent, who were very numerous in thi
quarter, foi the purpose, I suppose, ofcutting u
off from the road. We gained it, however
with le!.; difficulty and lols than I expeQed.—
The enemy followed us lour miles and then re
turned to our camp, the plunder of which en
grossed, I (uppole, their attention, and favei
the (cottered remains of our aimy. The chie
part of their fury on the retreat fell upon thi
poor women and children, who could no; k^n]
pace with the fugitives. Near fifty fell a facri
lrce to the savages. A little after fun-letting wi
got to Fort-Jefferlon, and at ten o'clock the ami
mght began our feccndretieat to Fort-Hamilton
75 milts from the place of attion. It is unne
ci liary lor me to give you a lilt of the . nled ant
wounded, as the public prints must long befon
this have informed you of their names and num
bets. lam not competent to jitdgeof the gene
ral conduct of the commander in chief, I meat
rclpeti ng the place of encampment, march
exertions, attack, &c. Were my opitnon unfa
vorablc, 1 do not think it would be jufhfiable 11
one ol mv rank, behdes it would be cruel t(
adainfuL to misloitune. 1 can with truth affei
this much, that he was cool, brave, and delibe
rate, t'loughout the whole of the attion and re
ticat. His unfortunate defeat will, no doubt
draw on him the cenlure, and I suppose, abuf
of thole who probably are not many of then
judges of thebufinefs. For my part, t cannoi
ihniK the public had a right toexpe£l any brilli
ant atiion from 1370ragged,half-fiozen troops
hastily colletted from ihe dregs of the people, am
immediately carried into the fiJd, without mucl
discipline, tolighi three, or probably lour thou
land warriors, in hesltb and vigor—However
they have done this, they have cut a good wag
gon-road near one hundred miles long, throu j
she enemy's country, and have built two forts
and covered the gam toning of these by the elta
blilhed tioops ; so that if they have not sough
well, st muli be allowed that they have wo;k
well. Before a refpettable army can be pu
into the field, the ellabhlhnpcnt mud be alteied
the pay of foldiets inuft bearfome pioportion n
that ol labourers, and the pay o( ofhccis be luc!
as will induce fulfill men to enter into fe.ivic
of their country, without injuring their privati
affairs, or be under the paintul neceflitvof beggm:
their lubfilfance throughout the alliance of 80
milc3. Ihe loldiers must alfobe regularly pan
and not dilcharged at the expiration of their in
liftmcirt, without leceivmg one farthing of thei
hard earnings,
" 1 hope to have the pleasure of feting youii
a few day s, till when I am, &c."
Tranfiations from the Leydcn, and othe
French papers —Nov. 2b —Dec. 2.
Lubeck, Nov. 24. — The ek&or of Saxony'
having been so dilatory in accepting the he
reditary throne of Poland can be no othe
way accounted for, than by a due con.'id el
ation of the present temper of the court o
Russia. Theemprefs is opposed to the in
novations in the constitution of Poland
which took place in May iaft, and it i:' as
ferted that (he has confanted to a plan of 1
partition of the government, in which (hi
is seconded by and connected with Swedes
in bringing it about. The affairs of Polaiu
are a great objeifl in the treaty of allianci
concluded between these two norther,
court.;; one of the articles of which re
lates to the support of the ancient Po::; 1
constitution, eipecially the right of chocfin;
a king at every vacation of the throne. I
ts certain, that the elefl-or ofSaxony hasde
manded the explanation of several article
of the new constitution—and that for feai
of Come secret league against her liberties
Poland is folicitmg the support of the cour
of Vienna. M. Woyna, the Polilh miniftei
at that court has notified the changes tha
the king and the republic have thought pro
per to make in their constitution, and a
the fame time has solicited that monarcf
not to luffer any foreign power to interfere
in the arrangements that are found-necella
ry for the piofperity of Poland, norprevenl
the elector of Saxony from freoiy acceptin;.
a throne offered him by a free and inde
pendent nation.—To all this the court o:
Vienna has yet given no anlwer; from
whence we infer that it cannot be done
with propriety, till a conference has been
had with other courts in alliance with the
court of Vienna. In the present delicate
situation or various powers with refpeft to
RuiTia, the detth of prince Potemkin. i? a i
event that gives rife to virions coniecture'
whether the Ruffian cabinet will adhere to
their ancient fv(Vein or form new
coniietyons. It is well known there dhi
not t -:i{l the belt u.ide ".landing between
Ruffi •- a-id the court of Berlin, and that the
recent intcrventioi. of the latter id favor oi
the Porte, v.-.swell • - i',h occalioning a rup
ture betvsen then. Very recently, whet
the news wr- received at Berlin of Princj
Poteink.n's dt > :h. tha count BiflTdipißvfer
der, who f.jcceideJ well in negdeiatina
matters fcr the emperor in Italy, set oil
with a fee. t coniinilfionifor Petersburg.
Lryden Nw. 30. —11jlVonderful how the
report of t.ie king oi France's escape coulc
rai:: the least credit with people of com
trion uiiderft: 'ding. Situated as the French
ogoiiaixh no-- is. it is next to impossible
that he faouhl ast so weakly as to meditate
: second efc.ipe from his kingdom —Ternport
laiL'ytur, not et mbtamur cum illts—the times are
;£<• iged, and he has changed also. Such a
step as abandoning his throne at this time
ivotild be an everlasting blot in his charac
ter, and forever destroy that confidence,
which his conduct since his signing the con
futation, has merited. Neither is there
any motive exilting that could induce hin:
tofuchallep. The appointment of Mr.
Peth'.on to the mayoralty of Paris, howe
ver difagreeabie it may be supposed to the
court, was not an event offuiiicient magni
tude to cause so desperate a resolution. Ii
is evident, then, that the whole story origi
nated with the two corporals, who had tht
afl'uranceto Ihut up the royal family at nine
o'clock in their chambers. Being ques
tioned, since their imprisonment, as to
the receipt of this order, they declared
upon oath, they had received information
that the king was preparing to make his e/cape
!t would be well if the affair comd be tr?.
ted to its origin ; and if it could, we (houlc
ioubtlefs find it to be a manoeui re of one
>r the other o the contending parties for
particular purpoies.
Dec. I.—The non-juring priests seem de
termined, with the aid of the enemies o!
the constitution, whether in or out of the
kingdom, to occaiion trouble and perplexi
ty i 1 every department of France. It is a
quettion, however, whether the fevera
laws enaftcd againlt them by the nations
afl'einbly will not do more harm than good
It were to be wilhed that the greater pari
of the exilHng representatives of thenatior
wi uirdlefs expose their iiank to the eneniie
of the constitution, and not make it appa
rent that they are the enemies of religion
as well as all its appendages.—We cannot
011 this occasion, but recollect the violen
speeches of M. Ifnard, member from Mar
I c-dies, againlt the clergy, speeches whicl
brought upon him the reproach of Atheism
even front a constitutional priest, one of the
members of the assembly.—At the session o:
Nov 12, a member proposed that the verj
word clergy fliould hereafter be abolilhed
which occalicned a bitter reply from a bi-
Ihep newly elected, in which he was sup
ported by every ecclesiastic in the assembLy
i. 00 many oi the present members seem tt
iiave adopted the ideas of the club of Jaco
bin. , v. no now seem to govern the taste ol
Paris, and are rather disposed to tear
op 1 the wounds made by the revo
uo.n, than to dole them by mild anc
hsaling applications.
Dec. 2. —Among the various impediments
to the complete ai,d general adoption of the
new comtitution, not the lealt seems to be
the re-uniting of Avignon and the Comta,
I 'maijlin to the dominiolls of Franee. I f the
decrees of the aHembly relative to the Ger
man poflellions in Alsace and Lorraine,
have no: already efieited that purpose, it is
certain that the violent revullion of these
two territorie from the popilh demesne:
will conliderabiy increase the prejudice;
that already operate among the Furopear
powers againlt the French revolution.
I he pope has addrtfied all the powers o;
nu. ope on the injiiftice of this decree o:
the allembly . in which he accuses them oi
tnconkftency and injustice, and allests his
claim in the Itile of an helpiefs old man who
cannot revenge his own wrongs, and there
fore humbly implores the assistance ol
others.
The address is in fubfiance as follows :
" By their decree of the 14th of Septem
ber lalt, the national aflembly in pretend
ing to incorporate the city of Avignon and
the Con, at- V enaillin with the French mo
narchy, evidently betray a determination to
difpoli'els the hoiy father of property of
which he is the lawful and only mafier.
i he decree above referred to is no less un
juii than lalfe, is evidently designed to im
poie upon the world, and directly contra
dicts the allertions of those perfidious mo
vers oi who, after the moll solemn
proteii ations, that they Jot ever renounced ai
ideas of con t utjl, have impudently dared to
authorize a mod criminal and arbitrary
uiurpation of foreign territory.
" In the Ihort space of eighteen month
they have four times attempted, under va
rjoiis pretexts, to incorporate with France,
these two provinces, rightfully appertaining
to the holy Tee. At o-ne time they tried to
invalidate the pope's title; at another time
they brougl't forward Tome pretended com
plaints of the inhabitants, as if they wished
to become Frei'chmen.—Again, they de
bated whether these provinces might not
be demanded ds iiiti ral parts of France ;
and they were not ashamed on afl these
occasions to have recotirfe to the meanelt
fophidry and impodure to support designs,
all tending to the completion of this aban
doned projeft —'" Notw ithdandingthe imi
verfal uneaiinefsdccafioned by these insidiouS
deps, and notwithdunding the wicked ac
tivity of a party, spurred on by hatred ma
lignity, and premeditated spite againd the
holy fee, the evidence of truth prevailed :
this daring attempt became universally odi
ous —the indignation of the public was ex
cited, and at lad judice triumphed. On the
24th of May, a decree was ptiblifhed which
disavowed every intention of the incorpo
ration above mentioned.
" AH the plans of the cabal for seizing
the sovereignty of these didrifts from the
pope were fruftrated by thi decree ; ar.d
his holiness began to entertain hopes that
there would be no further occasion of com
plaint on this head — The decree, however
of Sept. 14. has again baffled all his hopes'
and he cannot possibly reconcile this renew
al of the claim on the part of France, with
the former proteliations of the alTembly,
which disavowed a'l claim to the territo
ries in quedion. —It is with adonifl merit
his holiness observes, that the pretended
right of France to these territorie ■ i- found
ed on a pretense of the free tuifh of the citizens
to be incorporated, as a fart of that kn:gdm.
" The date >f these claims i "as recent
as thev are unfounded. Difcuflions on this
fubjeel were nt d held in r 89, a id although
the claim Of I' ranee was supported in the
assembly by every argument that the mod
malicious ingenuity could dev : fe, it was
notwith't?r.dingreeled. was
his holiness of the just ce of his cla'm, that
he never had an 'dea even of employing a
counsel at their bar, incompetent as it was
to rescind his right of sovereignty —a fove
reigiity, depending only vpon God himfelf eda
bliihed upon tides the mod sacred, and se
cured by apolfeffion of more than five cen
turies, that has been recognized by all the
powers of ' urope. confirmed by the tribu
nal of France, and at all times refpetted
and protected by the augud predecef ors of
the present monarch of France.— " If Lou
is 14. ind Louis 15, when they podeffed
themselves of these provinces, at different
periods, never formally claimed them as
an appendage of the crown, and never at
tempted to incorporate them with France ;
and if, in afterwards redoring them to the
holy fee, they made no reservation, it is
certainly very easy to form a proper judg
ment of the validity of the present claims:
111 fliort, the impartial world will judge
whether the present afl'umed right can be
put on a footing with the authenticity of
ancient records, all which concur in veding
the incontedible sovereignty of these claims
in the holy fee," &c. [The remainder lia3
not come to hand;]
PRICE of STOCKS.
Si* per cents, per £. _
Three per cents, . „ 14/6.
Deferred si* per cents, . 14/10
Final Settlements . 12 f.
Indents, - 14J6
Stock i«2 Shares 96 pr. ct. prern.
TWENTY DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN away in Augud 1790 from the sub
scriber, living in Queen Ann's coun
ty, eadern shore of Maryland, a country
born Negro woman, called GRACI . bhe
is about middle aged, very low of dature,
round face, remarkable small feet, for a
negro, and has lod several of her fore-teeth.
The lapse of time since she has abfeonded
renders it unneceiiary to describe her
doathing. She is artful and talkative, and
I make no doubt has passed for a free wo
man, and got into Pennlylvania or Dela
ware dates. The above reward lhall be
pa.d to any person securing said negro, and
jiving information thereor to her mader,
and reasonable charges if brought home.
EDWARD HARRIS.
Feb. 23- 8w iaw.
H O W E L L's
SMALL MAP of PENNSYLVANIA,
May be had of Mr. Bailey, and Mr. Crvhjhank
Printers, in Market-street; or of the author in
NT. Fifth-fiieet, No. 88, who has the said maps
palled on canvass, cut, folded andcafed for pock
et carriage.
Philadelphia Jan. 30. 1792-
A few Copies of the REPORT of
the Secretary of the Treasury, of the
6th injl. on the PUBLIC DEBT,
may be had at this Office.LEGISLATURE of the UNITED STATES
House of ftipßisEnTATivts.
Friday, Feb. 3.
Delates on the Fificry Bill—on the motion to Jlrikt
out the JirJi session.
(Concluded.)
Mr. Ame9 observed, that one essential defe£t,
in the former law refpe&ing the drawback of thi
duty on fait, is the delay---the duty being pair
Letore the filherman goes out on his fiuiinj
voyage, and the drawback not being payable un
til fix months after the exportation of the filh
a circumstance which proves a heavy difaavan
tage to men of small capitals; that, of. the mo
Hey, which is drawn from the trealury to pfa;
those drawbacks, one part is an a&ual loss to go
vernmeht, whilst another part never reaches thi
iilhermen at ail ; that it is very doubtful, wile
ther the filherman receives a higher price for hi:
ififh, in conlideration of the drawback, than h
would if no such allowance were made 5 that
even though, in process of time, this might b<
the cafe, yet if the benefit be not loon felt, i
will in the end prove ineffectual, as the filhermei
will in the mean time fink under the unequa
competition with foreigners ; that the annua
product of the fiiheries, previous to the late war
was a million of dollars ; and that, if
rations be now fuffered to supplant us in this bu
finefs, which is an inexhaustible mine of nation
al wealth, we lose not only the income, but air
the capital itfelfj the filhing towns being bu i 1
1 naked rocks and barren sands, which, tliougl
now, by the hand of industry, cdorned with hou
l'es, and stores, and wharves, and docks, &c
must soon fee all these improvements go to ruii
and decay, unless supported by the filh in g trade
as the ordinary course of commerce is not lufßci
ent to support them : that it w'.uld be foolifh ii
the extreme to cast away the advantages whici
Nature herfelf has put into our hands ; that no
thing more is alked for the fifnermen, than bare
ly to receive back their own property with whicl
they have entrusted the government, and to h
placed on the fame footing with every other per
son in the United States, whore-exports import
ed commodities ; that it is the duty of govern
ment to support and protect her citizens in what
ever quarter the danger threatens—-it on the fron
tier, to fend armies-—if on sea, to lend fleets so
their defence ; that in theprefent cafe, the fi/h
ery may be supported without any expence to go
vernment ; that the lailors employed in thi:
branch, being Heeled with toil and hardlhip, na
turalized to the boisterous element, and hardy as
the very bears that stalk around them on tlx
floating fields of ice, whilst anchored off the bank
of Newfoundland are much more ufeful tc
their country in time of war, than any other clafi
of fearnen 5 for, being entirely out of bulinefs a«
soon as a war is commenced — finding no Ihelte:
on the filhing banks—having no property to lose
and hoping to enrich themselves at the expenc<
of our adversaries, they annoy the enemy, withou:
being themselves exposed to annoyance ; that, ir
cafe of a maritime war, the sailors employed ir
the fiiheries, could readily man a hundred fail 01
privateers, that would sweep the ocean, and fpreac
devaluation and dismay among our enemies. The
prodigious number of Britiih prizes, taken by
those adventurers during the late war, afford fuf
ficient proofs of what they are capable of doing
in the service of their country : As an instance
of their spirited exertions, he mentioned the suc
cess of one of their privateers, of only 16 guns and
150 men, that captured, in a single cruise, twenty
of the enemy's veflels, with 100 guns, and 40c
men -and observed, that even to this day, the
Britiih merchants feel the ruinous effedtsof that
kind of predatory war.
Mr. Ames now entered into a calculation,
tending to Ihew, from the quantity of filh ex
ported, the quantity of fait expended on that filh,
sndthe amount of the drawbacks allowed on the
exportation, that the government loses considera
bly on the one hand, and the filhermen still
more on the other.
After a variety of other remarks, he concluded
by observing, that the filhery, however important
to the ftace of Mafl'achufetts, is equally so to
every other state in the union j that it is not the
interest of particular Hates, but the national inter
est that is at stake j that in our competition with
foreign nations, we are fighting them with such
superior arms and with such superior strength as
rnuft finally ensure us a due reward for all our
struggles.
Mr. Madison. In the conflict I feel between
my disposition, on one hand, to afford every con
stitutional encouragement to the fiiheries, and
my dislike, on the other, of the coniequences ap
prehended from foms clauses in the bill, I lhould
have forborne to enter into this difcullion, if 1
had not found, that, over and above such argu
ments as appear to be natural and pertinent to
the fubjedt, others have been introduced, which
aie, in my judgment, contrary to the true mean
ing, and even strike at the charadteriftic princi
ples of the exiftingconftitution. Let me premise,
however, to the remarks which I (hall briefly of-
Jer, on the do&rine maintained by these gentle
men, that I make a material diftin&ion in the
present. cafe, between an allowance as a mere
commutation and modification of a drawback,
and an allowance in the nature of a real and po
sitive bounty. I make a diftin&ion also, as a
fubjeft of fair consideration at least, between a
bounty granted under the particular terms in the
constitution, " a power to regulate trade," and
one granted under the indefinite terms which
have been cited as authority on this occasion.
I think, however, that the term ' bounty' is in
every point of view improper as it is here applied,
not only because it may be offensive to some, and,
in the opinion of others, carries a dangerous im
plication, but also because it does not express the
true intention of the bill as avowed and advoca
ted by its patrons themselves. For if, in the al
lowance, nothing more is proposed, than a mere
reimbursement of a sum advanced, it is only pay
ing a debt ; and when we pay a debt, we ought
not to claim the merit of granting a bounty.
it is supposed tiy f ,me gentleman, that Con
gress have authority not only to grant bounties
in the sense here used, merely as a commutation
for drawbacks, but even to grant them under a
power by virtue of which they may do any thing
which they may think, conducive to the * general
welfare.* This, fir, in rriy mind, raises the im
portant and fundamental question, whether the
general terms which have been cited, are to be
considered as a fort of caption or general descrip
tion of the fpecified powers, and as having no
further meaning, and giving no further power,
than what is found in that fpecification, or as au
ab(tract and indefinite delegation of power ex
lending to all cases whatever ; to all such at
east as will admit the application of money,
which is giving as much latitude as any govern
ment could well desire.
I,.fir, have always conceived --I Believe those
vho proposed the constitution conceived- -it is
till more fully known, and more material to ob
erve, that thole who ratified the constitution con
reived, that this is not an indefinite government,
jeriving its powers from the general terms prefix
ed to the fpecified powers j but a limited govern
ment tied down to the fpecified powers, which
:xplain and define the general terms.
The gentlemen who contend tor a contrary
jodtrine, are surely not aware of the conferences
vhich flow from it, and which they must either
admit, or give up their dodtrine.
it will follow, in the firft place, that if the
terms be taken in the broad fenle rhey maintain,
the particular powers, afterwards so carefully and
distinctly enumerated, would be without meaning,
and must go for nothing. It would be absurd to
"ay, fir ft, that Congress may do what they please ;
and then, that they may do this or that particular
;hing. After giving Cong re fs power to raise mo
ney and apply it to all purposes which they may
pronounce neceflary to the general welfare, it
vould be absurd, to fay the lead, to fuperadd a
sower to raise armies, to provide fleets, &c. In
fadt, the meaning of the general terms in question
must either be fought in the subsequent enumera
tion which limits and details them, or they con
vert the government from one limited as hitherto
supposed, to the enumerated powers, into a go
vernment without any limits at all.
It id to be recolledted, that the terms " com
mon defence and general welfare," as here uied,
ire not novel terms firft introduced into this con-
Vitution. They are terms familiar in their con
trudtion, and well known to the people of Ame
■ica. They are repeatedly found in the old ar
;iclei of confederation, where, although they are
"ufceptibie of as great latitude as can be given
hem by the context here, it was never fuppoled
>r pretended that they conveyed any such power
is is now afiigned to them. On the contrary, it
vas always considered as clear and certain, that
he old Congress was limited to the enumerated
)Owers j and that the enumeration limited and
:xplained the general terms. I afkthe gentlemen
hemfelves, whether it was ever supposed or fuf
)edted, th|t the old Congress could give away the
money of the states in bounties to encouiage agri
'.ulture, or for any other purpose they pleaied. If
"uch a power had been pofTefied by that body, it
vould have been much leJs impotent, or h,»ve
>orne a very different charadier from that univer
"ally ascribed to it.
The novel idea now annexed to those terms,
ind never before entertained by the mends or
memies of the government, will have a f'urthei
:onfequence which cannot have been tak<tn into
he view of the gentlemen. Their conftrudtion
vould not only give Congress the complete legi/la
:ive power I have stated $ it would do more $ it
vould supersede all the reftridtions understood at
>resent to lie on their power with refpedt to a ju
liciarv. It would put it in the power of Con
gress to establish courts throughout the United
states, with cognizance of suits between citizen
and citizen, and in all cases whatsoever. This,
fir, seems to be demonstrable : For if the cLufe
in question really authorises Congress to do what
ever they think fit, provided it be for the genera
welfare, of which they are to judge, and money
can be applied to it, Congress must have powei
to create and support a judiciary eftabliihmentj
with a jurifdidtion extending to all cases, favora
ble, in their opinion, to the general welfare, in
the fame manner as they have power to pas«
laws and apply money providing in any other waj
for the general welfare. I lhall be reminded,
perhaps, that, according to the terms of the con
stitution, the judicial power is to extend to cer
tain cases only, not to all cases. But this cir
cumstance can have no effedt in the argument, il
being presupposed by the gentlemen, that the Ipe
cification of certain objedts does not limit the im
port of the general terms. Taking these tcrnn
as an abftradt and indefinite grant of power, they
comprise all the objedts of legislative regulation,
as well such as fall under the judiciary article in
the constitution, as those falling immediately 'un
der the legislative article ; and if the partial enu
meration of ofejedls in the legislative article does
not, as these gentlemen contend, limit the gene
ral power, neither will it be limited by the partial
enumeration of objedts in the judiciary article.
There are consequences, fir, still more exten
sive which, as they follow clearly from the doc
trine combated, must either be admitted, or the
dodtrine must be given up. If Congress can ap
ply money indefinitely to the general welfare, and
are the sole and supreme judges of the general
welfare, they may take the care of religion into
their own hands j fcthey may establish teachers in
every state, county, and parish, and pay them out
of the public treasury j they may take into theii
own hands the education of children, eftabli/hiwg
in like manner schools throughout the union $
they may alTume the provision for the poor ; the)
may undertake the regulation of all roads, other
than post roads : in ihort, every thing, from the
highest objedt of state legislation, down to the
most minute objedt of police, would be thrown
under the power of Congress ; for every objedt 1
have mentioned would admit the application of
money, and might be called, if Congress pJeafed,
provisions for the general welfare.
The language held in various difcufilons of this
House, is a proof that the dodtrine in question
was never entertained by this body. Arguments,
wherever the fubjedt would permit, have constant
y been drawn from the peculiar nature of this go.
vernment as limited to certain enumerated powers,
mflead of extending, like other governments to all
cases not particularly excepted. In a very late
instance, 1 mean the debate on the representation
bill, it mult be remembered that an argumen'
much used, particularly by gentlemen from Mal
fachufetts against the ratio of one for 30,000, was
chat this government was unlike the state govern
ment, which had an indefinite variety of objech
within their power, that it had a imall number 0/
jbjefts only to attend to, and therefore that a
mailer number of representatives would be fuffi
:ient to administer ir.
Arguments have been advanced, to (hew, thai
because, in the regulation of trade, indirect anc
eventual encouragement is given to manuJaliures.
therefore Congress have power to give money ir
lired bounties, or to grant it in any other waj
that would answer the lame purpose. But furelv,
[ir, there is a great and obvious difference, which
it cannot be necefiary to enlarge upon j a dut)
aid on imported implements of husbandry, would
n its operation be an indirect tax on exported pro
luce : but will any one fay that by virtue of 2
Jiere power to lay duties on imports, Congress
night go diredily to the produce or implements ol
igriculture, or to the articles exported ? It is true,
luties on exports are cxprefsly prohibited ; but il
here were no article forbidding them, a power di
ettly to tax exports could never be deduced from
1 power to tax imports, although such a power
night indirectly and incidentally afteft exports.
Jn short, fir, without going further into the
übjed, which I should not have here touched on
it all, but for the reasons already mentioned, J
'enture to declare it as my opinion, that were the
>ower of Congress to be eftablilhed in the latitude
:ontended for, it would subvert the very founda
tion, and transmute the very nature of the limited
government eftabliflied by the people of America:
ind what inferences might be drawn or what con
sequences ensue from such a step, it is incumbent
>n us all well to consider.
With refpeft to the aueftion before the House
: or striking out the clause, it is immaterial whe
:her it be struck out, or so amended as to reft on
he avowed principle of a commutation for the
Jrawback, but as a clause has been drawn up by
)ne of my colleagues in order to be substituted.
[ (hall concur in a vote for striking out, reserving
o mvfelf a freedom to be governed in my final
mte by the modification which may prevail.
[Thequeftion was still further debated, and fe
deral other gentlemen rose in opposition and de
"ence. But we will here take leave of thefubjeft,
ind of the fifhery bill altogether our readers
laving been already apprized, that the motion,
: or striking out the fe&ion, was finally negatived,
—that the word " bounty" was, every where
:hroughout the bill, changed for " allowance"—
and that the bill is patted into a law, having beer
approved and signed by the President of the Uni
:ed States, on the 16th in'Jant.]
Mr. Frenf.AU)
Your republifhing the following, from the In
dependent Gazetter, will oblige one of your sub-
Icribers. A FARMER.
AS long as the States of America continue uni
ted under the present form of government
the people will have to lament the want of i
bill of rights, which would clearly and unequivo
cally dittase to the legislature its duty, aad to th<
people their rights.
It is said that the principle which pervade? th<
constitution of the United States, is, that the fu
preme power resides in the people, and that thi
constitution itfelf opens with a recognition of thi
principle—that it is a conpaft enteied into b;
freemen, to support and protetl the rights of eacl
other ; and therefore there is no occasion for ade
rlaration of rights to be prefixed to the form o
government—that the people by whom it was or
dained and established, retain all powers not ex
prefsly given up, and that the citizcns of the Uni
red States may always fay, " We reserve the righ
to do what we please."
In a small virtuous commonwealth , where thi
Offices of the government would be esteemed honor
able, but not lucrative, and where every citizei
would not only be eligible to a feat in the legilla
ture, but which, by a ftridl rotation, he would bi
obliged occafionallv, to occupy ; under a pure de
mocracy of this kind, a declaration of the right
of the people might not be abfoluteiy necejfary
But a government of the extent and in the ntua
tion of the United States, being destitute of a clea:
explicit declaration of the rights of the people, thi
honor of serving the state, and of being uleful t<
its citizens, will give place to the most ford it
views of private emolument, and laws which flioult
be made to promote the general welfare, will b»
perverted to serve the ambition and avarice o
the few. AmbafTadorlhips, and places of profii
evil) be created for the ivcll-born. Palaces will b«
:re&ed, and we (hall be told that it is for the ho.
iio'r of government that all its officers and their de
pendants should be supported in a style of oftenta
:ion, parade and luxury, however opprefiive and
injurious to their fellow-citizens. Two parties
will exist, the one enjoying every comfort of life
without labor 5 the other langui(hing in penury,
submitting to every insult and injury. And th<
people, unprote&ed by an explicit declaration oi
their rights, ambitious men will, by artifice and
sophistry, explain away every principle of the go
vernment, in order to render it subservient to theii
own private purposes.
No people ever experienced a more complete de
ftru&ion of their liberties by the encroachments
of government than the French. Few people wit
netted a court of greater pomp, parade and ex
pense. To preserve their country for the future
from such calamities, that wife and enlightened
people thought it necefiary to adopt a declaration
of the rights of man, as the basis on which theii
new constitution was to stand. The declarator)
rxordium which prefaces the declaration, meriti
attention.
Declaration of the Rights of Man and of Citizens•
By the National Afjembly of France,
(t The representatives of the people of France 3
formed into a national afiembly, confidcring thai
•;norance, neele£r or contempt of human rights,
are the fule causes of public misfortunes and cor
ruptions of government, have resolved to set forth,
in a fclemn these natural, imprescrip
tible and unalienable rights : That this declara
tion being constantly present to the minds o*
the members of the body foci aI, they may be ever
kept attentive to their rights and duties $ that the
acts of the legislative and executive powers of go
vernment, being capable of being every momt-nc
compared with the end of political inftitutioOf,
may be more refpedted ; and also that the future
claims of the citizens, being dire&ed by simple
and inconteftible principles, may also tend to the
maintenance of the constitution, and the genera!
happiness : for these reasons the national allembljr
doth recognise and declare, in the presence of the
supreme Being, and with the hope of his blefiing
and favor, the following sacred rights of men and
of citizens :
1. 44 Men are born and always continue free,
and equal in refpeft of their rights. Civil dif
tin&ions, therefore, can be founded only on pub
lic utility*
2. 44 The end of all political aflociations is the
preservation of the natural and imprescriptible
rights of man, and these rights are liberty, pro
perty, security, and refinance of opprefiion.
3. 44 The nation is elfcntially the source of all
fov?reignty, nor can any individual, or any body
of Ufen, be entitled to any authority which is not
expressly derived from it.
4. <4 Political liberty consists in the power of
doing whatever does not injure another. The
sxercife of the natural righls of every man has
no other limits than those which are necefiary to
fecureto every other man, the free exercise of the
fame rights, and these limits are determinable on
ly by the law.
5. 44 The law ought to prohibit only anions
hurtful to society. What is not prohibited by
:he law should not be hindered $ nor should any
one be compelled to that which the law does noc
require."
That highly enlightened people have prefixed
a bill of rights to their form of government, not
as being applicable to their own situation alone,
aut as constituting the foundation of every just
government.
Had the conftltution of the United States a
foundation equally firm and equitable, we fhoufd
dot at this day witness the laws of the Union
Gained with, ift. Mercantile regulations, impo
litic in themselves, and highly injurious to the
agricultural interests of our country.
2. With funding fvftems, by which the proper
ty arid rights of poor but meritorious citizens are
facrificed to wealthy gamesters and speculators.
3. With the establishment of banks, authori
ng a few men to create a fi&itious money, by
jvhich they may acquire rapid fortunes without
industry.
4. With excise laws, which violate the tranqui
lity of domestic retirement, and which prevents
the farmer from enjoying the fruits ot his care
and industry.
However ambitious men may disguise the fun
damental principles of civil society, by the arts of
low cunning and sophistry, vet the social
i.xongft freemen, eftablilhes such an equality,
that every citizen lays himfelf under the fame
obligations, and ought all to enjoy the fame privi
leges. Thus from the very nature of this com
pact, every a£t of the government {hould be equal
ly favorable to all the citizens without diftinc
t'lon ; it {hould know the whole body of the na
tion, but distinguish none of the individuals who
compose it : What then is a legal government ?
It is not an agreement made between a superior
and an inferior, but a convention between a whole
bodv with each of its members, which convention
is a lawful one, because founded on the rights ot
man ; it is equitable because it is common to all ;
it is ufeful because it can have no other objedt than
the general good ; and it is solid and durable be
cause secured by the voice of the people.
Such a government will protcft and defend,
with its whole force, the person and property of
every one of its members, and every individual
citizen, by uniting himfelf to the whole, will, ne
vertheless, be obedient only to himfelf, and wiil
remain fully at liberty to every thing but injury.
The intention for which a man refignsany por
tion of his natural sovereignty over his own ac
tions is, that he may be protected from the abuse
of the fame dominion in other men. No greater
facrifice is therefore neceflary than is prelcribed
bv this objed. Nothing can be more fallacious
than to pretend that we are precluded in the social
Hate from any appeal, to natural rights. 1 hey
remain in the'ir full vigor, if we except that fmali
portion of them which men facrifice for protection
against each other. Whenever a government as
sumes more power than this object rigorously pre
scribes, it becomes an usurpation supported by so
phistry ; a despotism varnished by illusion.
If life be a bounty from Heaven, we reje£t the
nfrj)left part of the gift if we tamely surrender our
natural and unalienable rights, without which the
condition of human nature is not only miserable
but contemptible. To preserve them inviolate,
free citizens (hould always be armed with force
and constancy, and should repeat every day the
faying of the virtuous Palatine—'Alalo pcriculofam
hbei tatcm quam quietum fervitium.
This Day are publiflied,
SERMONS,
Historical and Chara&eriftical :
By WILLIAM LINN, D. D.
One »f the Minijlcrs of the Reformed. Prctejlant
Dutch Church, in the city of New-York.
Sold by T. DOBSON, R. CAMPBELL, &
M. CAREY.
[Price Three Quarters of a Dollar.]
PRINTED EY
CHILDS AND S W A I N E,
AT TH£IR OFFICE, NO. 239* HIGH-STRF. ETj
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA.