Vol. I.
Fir the NATIONAL GAZETTZ.
(Sidney continued)
On the Injujlice ef the EXCISE LAV/
and the Secretary's REPORT.
BUT there remains one argument in
favor of the excise on whiskey,
which, if it be true, will go farto silence
all objections; that is, that the manufac
* turers can incorporate the excise with
the price, and conlequently the cOnTu
rner pays for it. Upon this argument
the Secretary debates freely, and dwells
with plealuri ; and weic it not a mere
theoretical question. 1 have so mucn
i sfpeft for his character, that I would
not publicly attempt to refute it : but
when it is made the foundation Oi a
claim upon a fourth or a fifth part cf <i
citizen's earning, it aHumes the nature
of proving an account : justice requires
that delicacy fiiould be laid aside, and
the truth of the testimony examined
without reserve. What then is the tel
timony offered, to Congress ? It is the
alfertion of the Secretary, th.it, prcvi
©us to the laying a duty on whiskey, th:
price of the liquor was 38 cents; bui
that since that time it has risen to ,56
cents. This is a rife of ten cents in the
price, in lieu of 9 ccnts per gallon oi
excise, or as he states, of 6 cents, when
the excise is paid on the capacity of the
{till. The calculation here offered i;
remarkably exa£t, and makes the distil
ler a moderate gainer by the excilc,
llow fortunate it is that the fyflcm ha<
agreed so well in pradtice with the the
cry of the closet ! It would seem to gra
duate in every point just as a fond pro
jector would wish ; but alas ! no politi
cal alchymift was ever more wanting ir
oneefl'ential ingredient, I mean, truth
to support his position. I ask, in whai
distilleries, and in whatttumberof hogs
heads, has whiskey been fold at that price
for cafli ? who were the fellers, anc
who the buyers ? Does the Secre
tary state fafls that arepublicly known
as the market prices of the produce o
the foil always are ? or was he cxamin
ed upon oath, and called upon to state
the circumstances which juftifyhis opi
nion ? No, no ! But, on the contrary
when the matter came before Congrci:
it was proved by the members who hac
a personal knowledge of the fact, anc
(noke under an oath of office, that the
common market price could not be gen
• rally even since the excise
lavv was 111 operation, at more thar
33 1-3 cents. In support of the lame
argument it is averted in the report
{page 16) that it appears, that paying the
rate annexed to the capacity of the still
and using great diligence, the duty maj
in fact be reduced to 6 cents per gallon
and in page 19, it is said, that the dut)
cn the capacity of the still was foundec
upon a computation, that four month:
in the year was the usual period ol
country distillation. With refpett tc
the truth of thefc statements, as the)
have been already fully refuted on the
floor of Congress, I fliall make no re
marks, and none are certainly necessary
to be used to those who are competent
judges ; but least these representations
ihould not have their full effect, an esti
mate was produced in Congress as from
him, stating that a still was capable ol
protiucing, in the ordinary course of
business, about fix times as many gal
lonsof fpiritsin the year, as the mod
experienceddiftiller, who was a mem
ber of the House, declared he ever could
obtain, with the cxercifc of the greatest
induftty and skill, in a situation too,
which admitted of the stills being em
ployed during the whole year. To
what a length of deception does the de
sire of accomplishing a favorite fchcme,
tho* calculated to oppress and disgust a
particular interest, fonjetimes carry the
human mind ! The plea of ignorance
or mifmformation cannot be allowed as
an apology, If the minister was igno
By P. FR E NE A U : Publljked Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
rant of the business, he should have beer
(ilent ; if he wanted information, he
.hould have fought it from those who
ooffelled it. But a perion may be mif
aken, or imposed upon, with .the pur
?ft intentions ; he may even do injustice
without a criminal design ; and, there
ore, if there were no partiality appa
ent in the conduct of the Secretary, we
night receive such acknowledgments as
ome extenuation. This, however, will
ikewife fail, when we observe how he
las acted with respect to rum and gene
/a. The rum is manufactured from
mported molaiTes in the great towns,
jut chiefly in the eastward capitals; and
t appears, that the manufacture of ge
leva is confined, in a great measure, tc
ome particular parts of the country.
Neither of these manufactures are con
ducted by farmers, but by large capital-
Its upon commcrcial principles ; nor
lave I any kind of objection to this, or
ivifh to discourage its progress ; yet I
do not wish to give those manufactures
i bounty, which shall operate as a dif
:ouragement and opprefTion to the ma
nufacture of whiskey. But by looking
aver the report one cannot avoid re
marking, with what a friendly hand ge
neva is treated ; us comparative value
is exactly calculated ; the prejudice a
jainft it, in favor of foreign geneva, is
lamented, and the common restrictions
varied, to enable the manufacturer to
defeat that prejudice, by impoling it 0:1
:he purchaf'er as a foreign spirit, and a
special protection given to the secrecy
as the art. Did not the Secretary know
[hat the prejudices are infinitely ftrong
?r against whiskey than geneva ? and
that many distillers of whiskey have al
io their secrets P But no Ipecial provi
sion, no sympathy for that dcfpii'ed li
quor can have place in the fyftern ! no.
lo far from participating in minifteria)
patronage and indulgence, 12 ccnts art
addedto itspricc, as I have already slat
ed, in order to prevent Cor.grefs from
doing it justice according to its value.
In the report (page 9) the Secretary
lays that whiskey has a double advan
tage by the last law, in consequence ol
the increafcd duty on foreign and home
made rum; but this I deny, except mere
ly as it relpects the domestic consump
tion of whiskey. Whilst. the reporl
was preparing, home-made rum was ai
5/3 P er g a ll° n > in this city ;it is now al
the price of SJ; and is not only trans
ported to the different states, but to fo
reign countries, in large quantities. But
when the Secretary added more than a
fifth to the price of whiskey, he was si
lent as to the price of, and demand foi
this kind of rum ; and since 1 stated the
difference between the price of rum and
whiskey, in a former paper, the aver
age price of the latter was fettled, in the
House of Representatives, to be 2/6 ; ft
that the true difference of excise ought
to be one half ; whereas, the Secretary 's
report makes the ditierencc of cxcifc tc
be only one fifth.
Here then I conclude, that there is
not, where whiskey is a necelfary manu
facture of the farm, as much money re
ceived for it, in general, as would dif
chargc the excise ; that much more of it
might be made than would be fuflicient
tofupply the cxifting demand ; that, ol
courle, it is not in the power of the
farmer to incorporate the tax with the
price, so as to make the conlumer pay
it ; and that while it remains in this state
of discouragement, instead of the excise
being the mod equal of all taxes, as th:
Secretary alferts, it is the most uneqnal.
and the most injurious to ineluftry, ol
any tax that could be devised. The tax
upon molaffcs, which some offer as an
argument, will not apply to the cafe.
The county road and poor taxes, which
arc charged upon the farmer, and to be
relieved from the of which,
some of the Frontier people have rcf
pectfully applied to the last general as
sembly of Pcnnfylvania, (even when
MONDAY, May 21, 1792.
there is no state tax) may as well be ap
plied in favor of whiskey. I think,
likewise, that it may be fairly inferred,
:hat if 100,000 people, in the western
Darts of Pennlylvania, could find a de
nand for it, they would diftill as much
whiskey, if they had peace, as would
Droduce £. 84,000 in excise ; and if that
s true, what would the western parts ol
ill the states, who cannot bring theii
;rain to market, produce ? Or, rather,
what might the increased population tc
he westward, in twenty of peace,
aroduce ? Certainly an amount which
it would be unrealonable to ask, and
which the people would not submit to
pay.
Having arrived at this stage of my dis
quisitions, I may be fairly allowed to
ilfert, that the Secretary of the Trea
"ury thro' the whole of his report upon
the petitions, for a repeal or mitigation
sf the excise upon spirits, made froiri
tiome produce, so far from considering
:he fubjedt on public ground, treats it
is a personal affair ; and thus, instead
jf proposing any relief to the petition
srs, as the dilinterefted minister of the
government, he alTumes the charaftet
}f a defendant against their popular
:omplaints, and for the purpose of sup
porting his system, wages a zealous wai
igainft whiskey distilleries. Every state
ment is calculated, all the sophistry oi
nis reasoning is displayed, merely tc
prove that spirits made from home pro
iuce ought exclusively ta be taxed
and the fervor of his imagination, ha:
sclipfed, or extinguished, in this at
tempt, all regard to the interest of the
laborious hufoandinan. and every fcru
pittas to the authenticity of the inform
ation on which his data are founded.—
For the manly candor, and the impar
tial dignity of the Secretary's charatter
were substituted the groveling cunnint
of a pettifogger ; and Congrels was ad
drelTed with all that littleness of quib
ble, that distortion of facts, and tha
chicanery of profeftional management
with which every jury is assailed, anc
to which the best juries are obliged l<
submit. Various instances of this prac
tice might be given, b:fidesthofe upor
which 1 have animadverted ; and th<
appearance of a fulutary inftaace of fa
vor, in proposing to lower the exciii
upon whiskey from 9 to 8 centsper gal
lon, will hardly amount to an excep
tion. This was a feint evidently to in
troduce a diminution of the tax upor
the molasses distilleries ; and for whicl
purpose, the impost upon imported fpi
rits was alio to be railed. 1 hat impof
was, indeed, high enough already foi
the purposes of the revenue, iince
at the rate which it now bears, lef
will be imported ; but I do not com
plain of the alteration, nor envy th<
home made rum the preference ; pro
vided the produce of our own foil, anc
the domestic manufactures of our fami
lies, which are notyet in fufficientefteen
to interfere in the market with eithe:
species of rum, were equally cherifhec
and protedted.
From the refpeft which I fincerel)
feel for the Secretary's character, and
the opinion which I entertain of th(
eminence of his abilities and industry, 1
undertook the examination of his report,
with great reluctance and hesitation
but being convinced that it was calcu
lated to perl„adc the legiilature intc
the adoption of measures highly op
prefiive to a very considerable and de
serving number of pebple, as fully en
titled to favour and encouragement as
any other denomination of the citizens
of the union ; and perceiving that a
great majority of the members of Con
gress themselves were unacquainted
with the business, neither knowing the
price, nor the quality of the manufac
ture, the interests of which they were
invited to facrifice, at the very time
that they were granting cffc&ual encou
ragement to every other species of hh
Numb. 59.
nufacture I conceived it to be my
duty to communicate that portion of
information which I poifeffed ; and to
prefer, at every hazard of official ic
lentment, the act of doing justice to
the interests of the people, (from which
mull flow the honor and/lability of the
government) to a tame ac<juiefcence in
unauthorised assertions, or a lcrvile
complaisance to the reputation and dig
nity of a public officer. The man who
makes an unjust speculation on his
neighbour, or facilitates its being done
by others, is deservedly stigmatized and
shunned ; but far less is the turpitudeof
his conduct, than the guilt of that man,
who employs the power of an influen
tial station, to induce the legiflaturo to
speculate upon, or to oppress, one part
of the community, in order to cafe or
enrich another.
It may, however, be objected that
;his performance, being anonymous I
im not responsible for the truth of
the facts, which it states, and that it
places the Secretary in a disagreeable
predicament, because it would be in
=onfiftent with his dignity to reply to
animadversions that are offered under a
fictitious signature. But with respect to
the facts, let it be remembered that I
have appealed in almost every instance
to those authorities, which people, who
doubt, may examine for themselves ;
and with respect to the situation of the
Secretary, we may presume that he is
no ftianger to anonymous writing ; but
at all events, we know that he has a fuffi
eient numberof satellites or subordinate
agents, who will nothefitate to lend their
names forthofeufes inwhicheither from
policy or shame, he is loth to employ his
own. For instance ; there was recent
ly published an address to the people in
:he western counties, in favour of the
excise law, under the signature of John
Nevil, infpedor. It appeared in a pam
phlet ; it was also inserted in the Pitts
burgh Gazette, and several of the news
papers of this city ; and it was not only
calculated to juftify the excise, but to
traduce the character of the people to
whom it was addressed. But at the
firft appearance every person who knew"
the man, who lent his name, were sure
that the signature was as fictitious, as is
the signature of Sidney to this per
formance, and when, the Secretary's
report was publiflicd, no one who com
pared the two efl'ays could fail of being
convinced that they were dictated by
the fame author. I will leave a copy
of the address, bearing the exciseman's
signature with the printer, for the curi
ous, to compare with the report. I
conceive, therefore, I have as forcible
a right to publiOi truth under the bor
rowed name of a dead, patriot, as any
other man can have to circulate sophis
try, under the borrowed signature of a
living inspector.
When I began my ftricturcs on the
report, I suggested a poffibil'ty that the
Secretary's information might be de
fective, that his impartiality might not
be perfect, and that his principles might
not strictly correspond with the genius
of the Federal government, in the very
constitution of which, the republican
forms of the Hate governments are fo
leinnly guaranteed. That the firft of
thele fulpicions was well founded, is
not only evident by the facts I have ftat
cd, but by the testimony of every mem
ber of Congress, who profeffed tounder
ftand the subject, and took part in the
debates which it occasioned. The se
cond supposition is also evident from
an examination into the relative fitua
uon and prices of country-made rum
and whiskey, where they both arc made
in large quantities, and both are ex
cised.
How far his systems correspond with
the genius of the government must ap
pear by comparing those systems, with
the principles of the government, aa4
(See last page JTV the Editor of the National Gazette.
Sir,
r : - fccond part of Patne's Rights of Man,
X so seasonably imported at the present
juncture, will, it is to be hoped, put a tem
porary flop to the invectives of some inge
nious writers, whose publications are o;-
calionally cited in vout paperi They \vill
now have a fubjecf on which to employ
. the-.r ingenuity; : though I will venture
to predict that their ingenuity will be
employed to very little purpo,e ; a single
stroke from the giant arm of a Paine be
ing more than ftifficient to difcomfit a
whole legion of such pigmy opponents.
Left, however, the firlt edition, which is
just completed in this city, iliould be
bought up before they can procure co
pies (which, comidering the l'uperior me
rit of the work, is highly probable) I re
<;ueft you will present them with the fol
lowing extracts taken from it by your
conftaut reader, A. B.
Philadelphia, May 19, 1792.
"IT would be an ast of despotism, or
what in England is called arbitrary power,
to ni:i,.e a law to prohibit inhejligating the
principles, good or bad, 011 which any
other law is founded." "
'■ It a law be bad, it is one thing to op
pose the practice of it; but it is quite a dif
ferent thing to expose its errors ; to reason
on its defects, and to shew cause, why it
Jhould he repealed, or why another ought to
be fubftituced in its place."
" It is lor the good of nations, and not
for the emolument or aggrandizement of particu
lar individuals, that government ought to be
eftabl!:hed, and that mankind are"at the ex
pense of supporting it. The defeats of eve
ry government, mult be open to difcuflion ;
and it is a duty, which every man owes to so
ciety, to paint then cut. When those defect-,
and the mean of remedying them are ge
nerally seen by a nation, that nation will
reform it government.—Those fubjofts, a
of investigation, are always before
a country r.; a matter of right, and cannot
without invading the general rights of that
country, be made subjects for prosecution."
" Great part of that order, which reigns
among mankind, is not the 'Jfecl of government.
It has its origin in the principles offociety,
lud the natural conffitution of man. It
existed prior to government, and would ex
ifr, it the formality of goverument was
aboblhed.—Society performs for itfelf
every thing which is afenhed to govern
ment."
"In England, the improvements in agri
culture, ufeful arts, manufactures, and
commerce, have been made in opposition
to the genius of its government. It is from
the enterprise and indultry of the individu
al and uieir numerous afTociations,in which
government is ne.ther pillow nor bolster,
that ihefe improvements have proceeded.
No man thought about the government,
when lie wa; planning or executing those
thing- —Three or four very filly minrjleiial
n<wjpapers are continually otfending againlt
tii ' ipu-i of national improvement, by af
cnbing it to a minijler. They may, with as much
truth, alcnbe this book to a minilfer ! ! 1"
STRICTURES,
on the Report of a
COMMITTEE of CONGRESS,
ON THE
WESTERN EXPEDITION.
IN my rot tication to the public of the 15th inft.
I promi fed to expole lome uilpable errors in
the report of the committee of Congtefs on the
late western expedition, in order that a proper
judgment might be formed of this legislative
mode of ii furtigation. But previous to my en
teiing on the fubjeft, it is proper to oblerve, that
1 was never diredily or indirectly, called upon b\
•he committee to furnift any explanations, or to
obviate any of rhe charges or con
tamed in this report ; that the firft notice I had
of it, was in Mi. Childs's paper of the 12th init.
and that unfufpeS?:rg, unheard and unprotected, 1
have been stretched on the rack of public invelti
gation, as an objeCi delerving popular refentmeut.
I'Ut :houghi from circumstances arising from mil"
si tiune and indif:retion, (not guilt) my perfun
has been imprisoned, my mind prefervea in full
vigour, its n 1 ive freedom and indrpenaence j noi
am !>c lfo abased, as tam;!y to crouch under tin
l »lh of injury, whilll I am fupportcd by rhe con
fooufnefs not only of innocencc, but of merit, in
those particulars which are made the fubjetft ol
accusation.
1 fliall now proceed to a confederation of fom<
of the points which the committee roundly aller
as fa£ts j rtffervfnjg to a future occallon, such evi.
dence observations, as 1 ihall judge necefiar ,
for a full refutation of every part of the report oi
the committee so fur as it relates to my conduct
as Contractor for the army.
In order to prove m inattention to the fulfil,
ment of the duties of mv station, it is afl-rted—
That cn the qtb of May, 1791, Mr. Smith ol
Carl:lie, one of my agents, had not received an\
monies frc m me ; That on the %tb of May, 179 1.
Mr. Kcan, 3norher commifi'aiy, wa> in the (arm
iitu3l ic n ; and that even To late as theqth cfjunt
of th"° lame .ear. general Nevill, my principal a
gent-aCjPittfbur-h (which was the place of general
rendezvous and depolit) had like wife received nc
V'-or.'ici,
These ? fTVrtions I aver to be groundless ; and in
proof, I refer.to "he following copies of receipts,
tlie oi:g ; na.s of wiiich are deposited with Mr. La
ban r>»-onfoii, at No. 57, in Maiden-lane, for
rnerly one or" my agents under the contract, for
jj)fj ;.<flion ol t;,jfe who may wi/Ii explicit fatisfac
(ion on this head*
No. J.
Received, Carlifie zd sipr if) of colone
William Duer, l>y the hands ofcoldtocl Georgt
Gibfon,five hundred dollars, on' account of pro
viiijns to be tmnifhed by me to the army of the
United States.
Signed, TAMES. SMITH.
500 Dolls.
No. 11,
Received, Philadelphia, April 19tb 9 J791, o:
William Duer, Icj. three hun.ired dollars, in pofl
notes, which J promise to deliver to Mr. Jame;
Smith, near Carlifie, taking duplicate receipt!
Efctrefor.
Signed, HIPPOLITE MALARTIC.
N. B. The rece pc of this funj is acknowledg
ed in Mr. Smith's account.
No. HI.
Received, Jbril 13tb, 1791. of colonel Willi
am Duer, tour hundred and leven dollars and lor
ty-eight ninetieths, on recount offupplies for tin
troops railing at Wincheft'er in Virginia.
Signed, JOHN KEAN.
No. IV.
13th April, 1791, Received of William Duer
:wo thouland dollars, to be applied in purchafinj
supplies for the troops on the Western frontiers
and lor which 1 promise to account.
Signed JOHN NEVJLL.
2000 dolls.
Exclusive of the above sums, I paid many o
Mr. NevilPs drafts, p evious to the time a
which the committee irated he had received n
Tioney as will appear oy his accounr, depofitei
With Mr. ftronfon, and made large advances t
everal other persons, for supplies, to be furni/h
•J at Pittiburg, and other places ; the proofs o
Mich aie'too voluminous to be inlerted in thi
jublication.
Here I might reft the defence on tnefe points
)ut the following proofs of a more decisive nature
Tom No, 5, to 9, prove how much I had at hear
in honorable fulfilment of my contract j and tha
ne meafwres which 1 took for this purpole, wer
lot only fuccefsful, but acknowledged by publi
locunvnts, lodged in the war-office, which th
oinnriittee might have leen, if an impartial invef
igation had been the objett of their researches.
No. V,
Inftru&ions to Mr. La-ban Bronfon:
Sir,
The confidence 1 have, from pa ft experience ii
our a&ivity, and tegard for my interelt, has in
luced me to appoint you my principal agent so
nanaging all purchases on my account in th
veftern country, nut only on account of the con
radt, but on account of the French emigrants.
In managing the former, you will act accordin
0 your own dilcrecion, and lor niy be;t interest
n the latter, you will from time to time, goveri
'ourfclf by such special inftructior.s as you fhal
eceive from me;
Your principal and immediate attention mul
)e devoted to lupplving all the polls under th:
:ontra& f©r the space of four months and procu
"ing a complete lupply of (alted provisions, for th
Tionths ol May and June next, preferring porl
1 you can obtain it. 1 o enable you to commend
pour operations, you have herewith in Philadel
jhia Wank bills, fifteen hundred dollars, and a let
:er ofcrcd t on my agent Mr. Joseph Hardy, a
Philadelphia, dire&ingto pay your drafts 011 him
irawn at not less than ten days fight, for fii'teei
lundred dollars. You have likewiie an order 01
Vlr. Israel Ludlow, directing him to pay int<
(our hands what monies he may have undilpofed o
if my last remittance, and all that he Jhali receivi
rom the French emigrants, who are under a con
ention to pay me lor provilions supplied tiiem
With these relources, and that of the merchandiz
n the care of Mr. Swan (and who must difpol
)1 tliem under your directions solely) 1 have n
loubt you will be able to execute the objects en
rusted to you. If lurther means are necefTary
nform me instantly, and you /hall have them.
Immediately on your arrival at ftuftaloe o
'ort Pitr, you will give notice to Gen. Harma;
>1 your commission, the profpe&s you have, an<
he measures you propose adopting j and you wil
it the fame time transmit to me the fame intelli
;ence.
From the funds entrusted to Mr. M'Farland
>revious to his death, and those ia the hands o
»ir. Fowler, I am persuaded confhlerable fupplie
null have been procured. Obtain as soon as pof
ible, for mc, a state of all purchases or contratt
nade on my account and of the deliveries in con
equence, fpecifying the special nature of the de
'verier, and the ports at which they have bcei
eceived. I his you will obtain through Mr. If
.»el Ludlow, who is appointed to superintend al
he ilTues, and whose province it will be to vifi
• e respective posts. Although from Captain Mill
etter to me it is most probable that a fufficien
upply has gone to Poll Vincennes, yet it will b<
ieceft,»ry to ascertain this circumstance wirh pre
ifioji, and to lupply any deficiency in such mod
is you may think nioft advisable.
In Jhort, fir, in executing the business entrust
d to you, you will consider yourfelf unfettere<
>y any other confederations than a regard to m
n re re ft 'ivh'icb is inseparable from an honorable fu I
q . Intent of my contracl : and you will use every ex
rtion to retrieve any loss of credit, or reputa
ion which I may have fuffered from the fate o
Vlr. from the scandalous infinua
'Ons ol such jcrfons as wilh my contrast to fail
As the season of the year renders the execu
:ion of the office you have undertaken, extreme
y fatiguing, and dctaches you from the priva'i
>urfuits you had in contfmplation, I will allov
rou lor two months fervicc which you have pro
filed to devote to me one hundred dollars pe;
nonth, exclusive of your reasonable travelling
iharges, and before the eypiration cf that time
vill think of a proper character to succeed you,
Jfou have herewith a special commission for th
jurpofes mentioned in those inftrudtions, whicl
'Ou will communicate when circumstances ma;
ender recelfary, and a general letter of credit t<
Vli. Wills at Ouffaloe, who, I doubt not wil
jive you any aid in executing the trust reposed ii
sou.
I am, &c» yours with esteem,
__ _ ■ y r Wm, "DUER.
Mr. Lab an Bronfon•
border that Tome parts of this fetter may be
rnoie rlearly undcr/tooJ. it is necefTary to mention
that it was written in confequencc of a former
, agent s ludden death and the efteit which it was
luppofed it mijht have on the fupplies.of the ar
my at a very critical period, the Ohio river was
frozen that year much earlier thaT usual ; a frnall
part of the necessary fuppiies had been sent down
previous to that event, and a clamorous represent
ation had been made to the heads of the Treasury
and War department, of my utter inability to sup
ply the contradh
From what quarter, and with what views these
representations were made—l stall probably have
occalion to (hew at a future period.
•1"10 J 3 !4D 'OOVJLS NHOf (M°o)
•yiTxng *U3Q *aOH sI IX
> 'IIA3N NHOf (P3iß|s)
. "i6ii 'Ss 'Sinqfntj
001 I saioq £z I Z I gzgg I S6U | z6 L | tjSit: | zl '|e;ox
loozS oSt> 'qSjnq
JB3U puß ae pajsAjjap
aq oj /Cpsaj puß pajßi{Din t |
00S ooS 'psja/wpp aq oj Xpeai
J9AU aip
z- 1 9?gi ogt' 9s£t 4 3|33i0 jy
ooi saxoq £z zLoi S9ll z6 L 0001 ' •q3jnqjui c j
S3[puß3 <Jbo§ .(>ujqAV Jrio li uodccj >jjoj
s Puno < j spunoj sup(.Bf) 'f-fgfl ' s 9l * sc n 7 M S
•Sjnqjjjjj jßau pun jb f i6Li 'qjfz 'pußq uo SNOISI J° ujnja-^
'IA *°M
N.B. This return was transmitted to the War
Office, and from that department to me.
KT ~ „ r -JOtfEjjuoo -bja -nana. wvmi M o X
, I! O I ■ 16i i 'gr a |n f" 'S-inqfiu j
O) J'JSJ pcsq S*g-AJOSM» pus «])(,; JJOJ je pueq oo s|))F3 jssq |0 praq 3io-Xjti 3 .«j pus <oiq D sqj u,v,op sSeycd juqj uo sdoojj sq) 01 'ojis (j 3 aij <'ujq3sr
-IV 3 q) dn su.ptis s,uoue H P« 'j,, d jjoj 'j, 33J3 '« ri) n a ; E sdoojj S qi oj piny, u3j q S cq jrq.« ~o ..Mjnp*;, s , SAO q',>
_____ | o6r | z-i ib [ ooz6 ,' ofri | oqv | 0I | 39°' I I B£'l8 £ 'l 'pi Ei[ uo |ejox
•P3:C(J SE X|JtJU si inq'UMoO,, A !t? « 5 JV | I I I | ooi. | | oot I cos I 69 I T j ~
-JI3 JOU S| 30|Ej)r. a JB Xjnucnb sqx 2-Sjnqjnid JV I 061 I I 1 S+ | 0016 | of-i J 091 ] 91 | 89Z | 1 | 69 j
'CI N V H N O
■P""" 1 i"-, ' f I £6 1 | 7-1 | z 1 rSi; | 6tS 1 | <•-£ 9;oo | 10S [ EtitlgqEil *Lqz I zt S '6£ I L\ l*-,t<,zzt\ Si
j S ;I 1-1 1 i-i -i>z oi v-t 55x09 10S S6t bgo 1 iLfb n o_n it
•uojuojg P uc ' pucH °J,W *q P»-.uoj | 6 S 6 £Sg, 66+1 z S s j 6g6 ii£S£ fr- t g.Co6 |
j sojpußQ J SU<V||EB JO Jno|j Jno|j
lr?sui A 3[rs dros jo 4 0 J0 -tq| | -sjqq -Sq, I . s . q
— ' ' u o ||F o -yq'T siqg * s ! t iß 'J 3;5 3
' ,6il " l ' l ' pUE4 UO A3 i luEnb *V JO, J pun it) 0d 5 4J CJ Ju ,_, ' AW>JV >-V "J SNOISIAOtfd J ° *
*lIA -"N
. » .VIII.
I.eturn or piov.u.y.'o on hand the twelfth day
)f December, 170 x—at Fore Waihingron.
400 biirreis or flour
30,000 lbs, fait beef.
100 gallons of whiskey
21 boxes soap
10 bushels fair.
Jflued a: this placc per day, 600 rations.
Copy. Signed ED WD EVAN'S.
No. IX.
Extract of a letter from Francis M?ntgcs, EIV
infpedor of the troops of the United States, to
the Secretary of War, dated ForX-Waihington,
June 2d, 1701.
" The present c<tntra&or has the feve
.l! poll- with good ard tokolefomeprovijions $ and
'I eat quantities of pr'cvifion is on band."
True Extradt.
Copy JOHN STACG,j un . Chief Clerk.
N. B. This extract was transmitted to me
from the war-office.
From the above documents the following fails
are clearly eftablifoed :
ift. That as early as the 25th of May, there
was collefled at Pittsburgh, (exclusive of other
articles of fapply 2395 barrels of flour, and 8628
gallons of whilkey, which Is equal to 469,420
complete rations of flour, and 552,192 complete
rations of whilkey ; whereas the amount,of ra
tions required for the troops whilst on the expedi
tion, did not exceed, by General St. Clair's re- '
quifition, 360,000 rations.
2. That previous to the 28tb day of July,
.here had been forwarded to the army (exclusive
of all the subordinate polls being in the mean time
victualled) 2674 barrels and 1366 kegs, or half
barrels of flour, and 9271 gallons of whiskey,
equal to 657,972 complex rations of flour, ai.d
593>344 complete rations of whiskey.
3d. That from the fird of January 1791, at
the time my contrail commenced, to the 2d of
June following, before any of the supplies above
itatcd could have arrived at the armv, all the
pods under the contrail had not only'been fup
olied with good and tvholcfome prouijions, but that
great quantities of provijions -u-ere on band.
4h. That after the return of the army from
expedition, and only nineteen days previous to
the expiration of my contrail, which was on the
31ft day of December lad, 400 barrel, of flour,
"id 30,000 lbs of beef were on hand at head
quarters, for a garrison ot 600 men; which is
equal to 133 days supply of flour, and 50 of meat,
it is unneccllary to mention my supplies of beef,
oecaufe the reporters acknowledges plentifulJup
f'y of meat : this article being fumiihed from
Kentucky, is not included in the Pittlbure re
turns.
here remain two other charges which re
quire some notice.
One, That there was a total failure in .the
lupply of horles, which occasioned the com
mander in chief to direil a purchase of betwixt
ox and (even hundred, for which he ordered my
agent to draw bills on me, ar.d of which I refufed
payment. This.charge, so far as it refpeils my
iailuie, is..,as void of foundation as the others \
But, at present, 1 lhall content myfelf with ob
(crvi ng—
ift. That previous to the order iflued by Gen.
St. Clair, Mr. Wilkins, an .agent specially em-
I toyed Jar this purpose, W3S purchasing the num
ber ol horses which was judged neceflary for the
expedition, when I undertook the supply ; and
that this circumstance was publicly known in
camp.
2.1. That ] have made aitual payment many
inonths lir.ee, for all the horses purchased by
tills gentleman, agreeably to my contrail with
him—and
l.allly—That the loss of horses, and any in
terruption in the regular supply of flour, is not
imputable to the causes dated by the commit
,er * • but t0 some of a very different nature, and
lor which I am_ not responsible; and that pro
bably this want of flour existed principally on
the retreat, after the viilors had got pofl'effion
of all the provisions If the-limita of a news
paper would admit of my introducing the whole
celtimony neceflary to f'upport these points, in
that rnconteftable manner which it is in my
power to do, other obvious considerations redrain
me from.it at this time. I recollect on this oc
casion, an- observation made by Dr. Franklin to
Mr. Mortis (when fuperintenda:,t of the finances)
on a controvcrfy ab. ut money, with the count
f Vergerines, in which, after dating the count's
objeilions, the Doflor Ihrewdly observes, that he
could have easily refuted all he had laid, but that
t he had got the better of the argument, he
ihould have got nothing e/fe 1 (hall conclude this
bead with that the truth of this cba-ge
mav easily be jud t el of, by the accuracy of the
'tier parts of the Report of the committee on those
points where the means of official evidence, in
diieil oppofuion to what th y have dated, were
within their reach. As to the lad point con.
cerning the due bills ifl'ued by my agent, and
which is the only remaining one which deserves
•<ny omment, J (hall be but fliort.
'i he report dates as an article of the contrail,
" that the officers had an eledlion of drawing
the whole of the rations, to which their rank
entitled them, or of receiving the contrail price
of them in cafli. &c. &c. &c. This is no: f0.....
1 here is net a Jingle article of this kind, or a fin.
lie exp'cjfon in my contrail, which can be tortu
red to imply f-jch an engagement—ln proof of
this, my original contrail is left with Mr. Rron.
foil for the peruf.il of those who wist t o be fa
tisfied as to the truth of this bold affection. In
deed such an obligation would be too absurd for
any contraitor to fubjed himfelf to ; for if this
eleflion was to be in the officers of the atmy, as
the con traitor could not know when their fancy
or wants might lead them to prefer one to another
he would be under the necessity of double ad
vances for the fame objeit ; one for the officers
rations, the other of eafo to pay for them, if
not demanded, and what would be flill worse,
he would not only run the risque of having the
undrawn rations on his hands, but if he paid for
them at the contrail price, have according to an
old laying, his labor for bis pains. All that has
ever been ufgsl in this cafe has been for the of-Actrs *fl4 contractor to Egres : which has gcr.e
rall v been done by allowing*! n cash, rot the cpr.tra£i
pri.e, but what the ration was eflimated to cojl ai
the place where the officers were entitled to re
ceive it j this order originated in an intention tr
m-ke me pay to the officers what they had in
right to exact j as will appear by the following
extract of my agent's letter to me on this lubjec:
dated September 26th, 1791.
* l< General St. ClSir has ordered the quarter
matter of the different battalions to include al
the ration® allowed tiie officers in their returns
and directed the commifiaries to illue due bill:
tor he rations not draw , which it is expeccet
will be paid by you. I should be glad yoi
would give me your directions on this head,
and let me know ar what rate they are to be paid ;
for I dont think you ought to fettle them at the
contract price j tha eh no clause in the contraEl iha,
can oblige you to do it
Such are ihe charges and insinuations made a
gainst me by the committee ; and such the evi
dence I oftvr to invalidate them—-If it be 4(ke<
how Congress catne to direct a publication of thi:
nature, tending to criminate individuals withou
.knowing in what manner the charges againll then
had been substantiated, i reply that the repor l
was in the la(l day of the fefilon
when many members were a blent, and the ima
gination ot the few present so much on the win<
homewards, as to prevent the exercise of that coo
reflexion which in general marks the proceeding
cf that refpediabie body. " Thus wretches hang
that jurymen may dine.'* As to the motives o
the reporters, they appear fufficierltj'y obvious. .
jrefums they thoughc it confident with policy
and even with eftabliihed precedent, that on thi
occasion fame victim mould be marked out as ai
• bject of popular lefenttnent. It would not do t<
charge Congress as the author of the calamity
becaul'e they are foul birds 'which bewray tbei
4ivn nests.
It would not do to charge the President (at leaj
Jireflly) because his unremitted attention in exe
cuting wkh the most scrupulous as wel
as ability, every part of his executive functions
and a conviction of this on the public mind pre
eludes all hopes of success from such an attempt
It would not do to charge general St. Clair j firft
because a formercommictee of Congress had mad;
a very sorry figure in i'uch an attack ; and fe
copdly, because he was present to vindicate him
felf Who then so prouer to attack at myfelf
none Firit, because I was a contractor j an.
contractors, from cuilom immemorial, alway
t ear the blame of loft battles j Secondly, b-cauf
my misfoi tunes had fubje&ed me to popular pre
judices, and of course it was no great crime t<
charge me with an additional burthen ; And la«
iy, because I was absent, and of course not capa
ble of defending myfelf.
In these points of view (if I may be permittei
to use a little jocularly a grave observation of th
committee, and perhaps with as much propriet'
at leaft-as they do) their orde- of march appear
to have been judicious and i&eir ground of a£l'ui\
well Cbofen.
Wm. DUER, late
for the Weflern Army.
New-York j 17th May, 1702.
P. S. The Printers in the frveral dates wlv
re-print the report of the committee, will fron
jk sense of jultice accompany it with these ftric
tures. W m . DUER.
From the St JamesJs Chronicle.
PAY N E.
IN the second part. of the rights of man
Payne rep its and maintains his for
nier aflertio % that Burke is a peniloner,
a mean, hyp critical pensioner, under ;
borrowed name. This assertion, whicl
stands uncontradicted, cannot fail to ope
rate powerfully 011 the public judgment
in the cafe of a man who Hands forward a
their spotless champion 111 a public prose
cutiort.
Though wisdom may reie<ft many o
Payne's maxims, and even folly laugh a
his vanity, yet the impartiality of criticifn
must Approve many of his observations
as strongly thought, and powerfully expref
fed. In speaking of the landed interest, h<
fays, it is the only interest that needs n<
partial protection. Every individual i
interefredin it. It is the onty one so
which the common prayer of mankind i
put up. When the vallies laugh and sing
it is not the farmer only, but all creatio;
that rejoices. Why then does Mr. Burki
talk of the house of peers as the pillar o
the landed interest? Were that pillar t<
fink into the earth, the fame landed proper
ty would continue, and the fame piough
ing, sowing, reaping would go on. Th
ariftocracy are not the farmers who worl
the land, and raise the produce ; but an
the mere consumers of the rent; and whei
compared with the active world, are thi
drones, a seraglio of males, who neithe
collect the horsey nor form the hive, but ex
iff only lor Iszy enjoyment. Mr. Burke
in hisfirfl efiay, called aristocracy the Co
rnithian capital of poiifhed society ; to
wards completing the figure, he has nov
added the pillar ; but iiili the base is want
Jiig 5 and whenever a nation chooses to a.?
the Sdm on, not blind, but bold, down o*c
rii a g ol1 > the Lords and tii<
Phililtines.
He has but one observation on religion
because, he fays, " What is called the pre
sent rniniitry, are desirous of making it s
political machine to prevent the nation
trom turning its attention to fubiefts of Go
vernment. It is as if they were to fa-, look
that way, or any way but this. I will con-
Ciiide this work with slating in what light
religion appears to n:e. If we fuppofc a
large family of child;' 'in; who on anyparti-l
cuiar day, or .particular circumstance, made
it a custom to prefers to their parent, some
token of their affection and gratitude ; each
of them would present a dliferent offering,
and moll probably in a different manner.
Some would pay their congratulations in
themes of verse or prose, some by little de
vices, as their genius dictated, or according;
to what they thought would please : and
perhaps the lead of all, not able to do any
of those things, would ramble into the gar
den or the field, and gather wiiat it thought
the prettied flower it could find, though
perhaps it might be but a simple weed.—
i he parent wquld be more gratified with
such a variety, than if the wholv of them
had ailed on a concerted plan, and each had
made exactly the fame offering. This would
have the cold appearance of contrivance,
or the harsh one of controul. But of all
unwelcome tilings, nothing could more
afflict the parent than to know, that the
whole of them had afterwards gotten by
the ears, boys and girls, fighting, Scratch
ing, reviling and abusing each other, about
which was the bed or the worst present."
In his pamphlet, Mr. Payne has been
(paring on the two fubjefts of law and reli
gion. The defect is supplied by Mr. Bar
low, 111 his advice to the privileged orders.
In that work, the latter gentleman endea
vours to prove three things—i. That the
church, as commonly and properly under
wood, has nothing to do with religion—
2. That the church is founded on a lie. —3.
1 hat no kind of rational liberty is confid
ent with any kind of church.
As to the law, the fame gentleman en
fe'avours to prove, by a minute and accu
rate comparison, that the formalities, de
lays and expenfivenefs of the English juris
prudence, are unnecessary, burthenioine,
and grievous ; since the fame ends are ob
tained in America with one hundredth
part of the trouble and expence. He shows
clearly how, by regulations founded on
experience and common sense, the Ameri-
from being the mod law ridden peo
ple in tiie world, have delivered theni
eives from their opprefl'ors, and reduced
the number of lawyers, including all des
criptions, to the moderate proportion of
one in five thousand.
PHILADELPHIA.
May 21, 1792.
ExtraQ of a Utterfrom a gentleman of the frjl in
formation at Lisbon, to his correspondent in this
city, dated March 18.
" After certain -intelligence had been re
ceived at Gibraltar that Muley Yazed had
defeated hi ; brother's army on the 12 th of
lad month, about the end of the fame month
the unexpected news arrived there of his
having died on the 16th, in confeqtie'iice of
his wounds; as likewise the death 0/ his
antagonid, Muley I (hem, who is reported
by some to have been killed in the battle ;
and by others, to have died also of the
wounds he received in Lnttle. What is as
serted to be less doubtful is, that' Muley
Iflamahas afluallv been proclaimed em
peror at Tangier. He is also asserted to be a
much more unexceptionable character than
the two brothers who have fallen, and more
likely to cultivate peace, upon reasonable
terms, with all nations. —The fame letter
mentions the 23d instant as the day agreed
upon for the delivering up of Oran to the
regency of Algiers."
Extras of another letter from the fame gentleman,
dated Lisbon, March 25.
" The ameliorations in the queen's
health are great. fooftor Willis found
that the physicians had treated her cafe in
a very improper manner. It seems proba
ble, that, if the fame treatment had been
continued a little longer, she mutt have di
ed. At present Dr. Willis entertains
hopes of her total recovery. Yesterday Ihc
was much better than (lie has been at any
other time since his arrival, and entirely in
her right mind-I am jud informed that the
Emperor of Germany is dead. This news
was brought by a courier from Madrid to
the Spanish charge des affaires here."
This day the vefTels outward bound from
this port are to complete their rendezvous
and to proceed to sea under the direction of
Captain Lawler, who is to lead the way
with the ship of the larged draught of wa
ter.
Captain John Foder Williams, of one of
the Maflachufetts revenue cutter?, has com
municated to the Bodon Marine Society,
the refill t of teveral experiments;, made bv
him during a late cruise, in didilling frefii
water from fait. —His apparatus appears
to have been no other than what is com
monly found on board merchant veffe's and
coaders, such as an iron pot, with a ti;t
crane and a cooler, and* a mufquet barrel to
be fixed to the crane—lll one of these ex
periments twenty-fevea quarts of fait wa
ter were put into an iron pot, which yield
ed in seven hours twenty-two quarts of
good frefii water—one quart oflees was left
in the pot, and four loft by evaporation.
We hear from Bodon, that the county of
'fork, in the Province of Main, after fully
iriveftigating the subject of a reparation be
ween Maine and Maffachnfcccs, have de
termined tlic uuellion'm the nc<vi:he. Otil
of fixteeil towns it that county, tfati onb
were for, and thirteen again!! it.
Tlie infeription upon the co flcr stone o.<
the foundation for the President's Houli
in this city as given in our last was (excep
in 'übftance) erroneous. A true cop/, ta
ken from the (tone, as it lay in the Stone-
Cutter's (hop, is as follows • —This corner f one
of the Iloufe to accommodate the President of th
United i tales, was laid, May 10, 1792; iuhe,
Pemfylvania was happily out cf debt, Thomas Mij
flin then Governor of tlie State.
On the 38th of February last:, Coun
Florida Bla-.ica was removed from his em
ployment as prime minister of Spain; fnc
:eeded by Count D'Aranda. The fam<
lay an edict was pnblifhed, by which th<
uperintendency over all the departments o
:hegovernment is vested .in the council o
Hate, of which his Catholic "vlajefty has de
:lared himfeif President, and the Coun
D'Aranda Senior Member.
Gen. W Hliam Bowles, who has excite<
Co much attention for a year or two part
both in Europe and America, is no w a pri
loner in the Moro castle at the Havanna
Three Cherokee Indians (his companions
are i.i the fame lituation. It is thought th.
depredations he has committed on the Spa
nifli settlements will cost him his life.—On
accounts add that this invtterate enemy t(
the United States was with the indians ii
the action near the Miami towns on the4t!
of November last.
When the Queen of France heard of he
brother, the Emperor of Germany's death
fheexclaim'd "If my misfortunes wen not be
foe at their height, ikeir meufure would now b
filled. ' Your kings and queens of the pre
lent age seem to be mere theatrical charac
ters, whose misfortunes are for the mof
part imaginary—Because they can no longe
tyrannize over nation-;, & confidermankinc
as inherited property, a great out cry i:
made forfooth, and they lick over theii
supposed wounds with as pitiful a yell as ;
puppy that has been kicked !
We are informed by late F.nglifli paper:
that there have been conliderable distur
bances, infurrecVions and tumults in and a
bout the city of Berlin, in Prussia, both a
mong the citizens and military, in all whicl
the soldiers took part with the citizens.—
The discontents among the Pruiiian troop
were so great, that the King, tho'ever ft
inimically inclined towards France, itwa:
thought would not be able to act offenfivel;
for iome time to come—The occasion o
discontent among his troops is, the mifera
ble pittance of pay they receive, the refufa
to admit delerving privates to the rank o:
officer:, and their difgraceful fubjeftion t<
the discipline of the ferjeants' whips anc
canes, which they are determined no long
er to fubinit to.—[N. B. It is not thref
years since these men believed themfelve
to be mere machines.]
The fiiper-annuated Royalist, the Em
press of Ruflia, has (in one of her late ftat<
papers) pledged herfelf to oppfe all revolu
tions that way occur in favour of the liberties of tk
people of any European nation. Whether her na
na-ion will concur in such raft deiigns i:
somewhat problematical, as they can ex
p.'ft no vilible advantage from theimmenfe
expenditure of blood and treasure that fuel
oxpedit.ons will certainly require.
The King of Sardinia has long been ta
king the molt rigorous precautions to pre
vent the eii'ufions of the French, press froir
circulating in his dominions—the Printer;
at Stockholm (Sweden) have also been pro
hibited by an order from their fovereigi
from pnblilhing or republifhing any thinj:
on the fubjefl of the French Revolution—
So true is it, that tyrants 111 all countries
dread no.hingfo much as the liberty of the
press.
It is intimated by a European correspond
ent that Doctor Willis's abilities in curing
madness are not universal : for instance,
I'.e is no more than a common man in cur
ing the rabies canina ( or, bite of a mad-dog)
what he particularly excels in relieving is,
the rabies monarchica, (or, royal insanity)
It would be well for the general principles
of honest republicanism if his fkdl was a?
defective in the last mentioned species of
cure as in the former.
There are many intimations in the lately
received English and other newspapers, that
the emperor of Germany was taken off by
poison ; the strongest proof of which stems
o have been the sudden bursting of his bo
civ, which (fay our accounts) is the peculiar
efleft of strong poison—The late Emperor
Jofephthe second was strongly fufpe£ted to
have been taken off by fiinilar unfair mean,
—ooth these monarch:; if many concurring
accounts are to relied on, were amiable
philosophical chara£lers, friends to man
kind, and promoters of the happiness of
their fubjefts ; a consideration that must
raile the sigh of regret, even in the breasts
of those who execrate royalty of every de
nomination. '* In the circle of a crown keeps
Death his court-, and there the Antichfits mocking
at pomp— 'till with a little pin he bores his caflle
walls—and farewell, king."
We have the pleasure to communicate fw
the public, that letters have been received,
at the war-office from Major Hanitramck,
commanding at Post Vincennes on the rive?
Wabafh, dated 30th of March last, stating
that he had made a pacific agreement with
the Wea and Eel river Indians, and expect
ed that the Pyankefhas would immediately
become parties thereto—These tribes, with
their subdivisions of villages, embrace a
considerable part of the Wabafh Indians,
who have hitherto been hortile.
It would appear, from the information
of the chiefs of the fYid tribes, that the
Ivckapoos of che Wea have removed 10 the
Illinois river—but that if they (hoi,ld re
turn to their former situation, the Wea and
I.el river Indians have stipulated, that the
aid Kickapoos fljall become parties to the
agreement made with Major Hamtramck ;
or, that they themselves will drive them out
of the country.
THEATRE.
IT has frequently been the misfortune
of theatrical exhibitions to be ranked a
mongfl the frivolous and dissipated amuse
ments cultivated and patronized by the
great, 111 despotic or aristocratic govern
ments, where the people are amused by the
policy of the rulers to prevent them front
looking into the rights of man. A discrim
ination ought, however, in jjultice to be
made between theatrical exhibitions and
others of a meaner or really mifch'evous
nature. A virtuous people will always in
sure a chaste theatre, and no manager
would dare to permitloofe or indecent dra
matic performances on the American liage,
if he had reafou to think his aud ence were
:lifinclined to be entertained with produc
tions of that fort. —No good reason can be
afligned why the theatre in America may
not be made the tutrefs of the-ini/der virtu s
if the hearty and a school of rcpub'ican virtu•
fqual, if nt fuperior to that wirchw a ; re
orted to at Athens in the pureli age of her
republic. Thefirft duty of tli - itage ought
o be, to inculcate honelty, patriotil'm, mo
lality, and good" will to mankind, iuftead
of that savage heroism of reftlefo tyrants ;
or tacitly praising the bloody .action of arif
:ocratic demagogues, whose merit has been
Tiade to depend on the nations they have
extirpated, or the miseries they have -occa
ioned to the peaceable and virtuous part of
:he human race. May 19.
European accounts as late as March 27, not
under our foreign heads, may be comprised in
he following abflrafl, which is from Britilh pa
pers.—A spirit of civil war is predominant thro*
a great part of France, particularly the louthern
parts of that kingdom. Paris is also said to be
in a dangerous (late of fermentation from the
different leavens of royalty, ariflqeraty and re
publicanism, operating on the fame rtiafs.—The
empress of Ruflfia has officially informed the
:ourt of London of her determination to have
a fleet in the Baltic the ensuing fumtper, to ast
n conjunction with that of Sweden—Their ol>-
eft supposed to be the fettingafide the r.ev/ con
flitution of Poland.—The Spanish agent had not
yet made the flipulated reflitution of 40,000!,
r or the Briiilh vessels captured at Nootka-Sound,
11 consequence of an additional demand bv the
owners of the supposed profits that would'have
iccrucd by the trade to China during the fime of
ts suspension. Various conjectures were form
ed as to the cause of the emperor's death ; some
attribute it o poison, others to an inflammation
n the jungs and bowels—lmmediately on the
mperor's decease, his son Francis took the reins
of government in the Auflrian monarchy—and
the military at Vienna took the oaths to the em
peror's cldelifon two days after his fathet's death
— Great commotions exifled in Flanders, and
mmenfe quantities of every kind of military
(lores weie daily arriving -at Namur. Aries.
Carpentras, and Avignon, were in a (late of
open revolt against the new government in France
—and the insurgents had impiifoned or exiled
lie revolution party. M. Dumoufiier was ap
pointed French minifler for foreign affairs, and
M. La Code minifler of the marine. The new
king of Hungary had refuft d to take any share
in the diflurbancej of France, and the part that
would be taken by the emperor's fucccffor was
altogether uncertain.
Accounts recently received from Sweden
11a Scotland) mention the deflruflion of
one fourth part of the city of Gottenburg
by fire, 0:1 or about the firft of March. The
computed loss is said to be immense.
On the 23d of March a laud express ar
rived at the India House in London, said
to bring intelligence that Lord Corn wall is
had taken Seringapatam by storm, on the
15th of last November—the loss' oiftbe fide
of the Knglifh said also to be 400 Europeans
and /Oco natives—that Geti. Meadows was
killed and Lord CortrwalKs wound^tf —the 1
news (it was said) gained so much' y-e< ■:
that India flock rose two per cent, it")
quence thereof.
The Prince Royal of Denmark ha- pub
lifted a decree, by which the (lave trade, is
to cease, and be foreyer abolifhca anions, hj
Uibjefts after the year 1803.tfie opinions, that prcr-iIleJ 3r. the time of ifs
'formation and adoption.
V/hen the vcftiturt of extensive internal pow
ers in the federal legislature, gave a genera) alarm
to the people of the United Stales, the beifc advo
cates lor its adoption, and fucii as were mod ac
tive in its formation, declared that those powers
tvould not be exercised, except in the last rcfort,
and that particularly, the powers of levying in
tern::! excises could only be practicable, when
every other resource failed, and when prelfirig dan
ger would, by producing conviction of the necef-
Iky of the mcafure, insure its success. Even the
most: fcrupuJous and jealous criticifers upon the
government, considered the exercise of this power
as wholly impracticable, at lealt until the go
vernment was supported by the subordinate
branches of the executive and judiciary eftablilh
xnents, so multiplied, and so spread, as to answer
all the purposes of a completely consolidated go
vernment. It was known, that with tht exten
iive country we inhabited, aud the intelligent
and enterprizing spirit which the people pofl'efled,
the general government could only be supported
by pubiic confidence j and that a force which
would be competent to dragoon the citizens into
a fulunifiion to measures that they thought op-
could not be procured or maintained.
J: was thought, like wife, that whilst the states
continued to enjoy the forms, and to exercise the
powers of republican government, according to
the federal guarantee, their courts and officers
would bring the salutary protection of government
home to the most remote and indigent situations
of life, and attach the feelings and interests of
the people to the support of their authority and
its legitimate exercise j whereas the inferior
functions of the general government, however
widely dispersed, would only be employed in sup
porting the execution of laws, the constant lan
guage of which would be, Give ! give ! It is
true, that rhere were men who lliil retained a
jealousy, that the veftiture of the federal power
might instigate some enterprizing spirits, when
elevated to influential Uations, to gratify the ap
petites of their personal ambition or to enforce
the necelTity of a more arbitrary government (to
*vhich such dispositions are fatally prone) by a
premature exercise of an odious, but flattering ju
rifJi&ion.
The vigilant and anxious considered the fede
ral power, but particularly that branch of it
which authorised the imposition of an excise,
to be an idol of jealousy, that in the hands of a
projecting minister, might be abuied for the
very purpose of creating that crisis in the govern
ment, which it was preserved in store, as the
means of preventing or supporting. Hencc arose
the difficulty which attended the adoption of the
constitution, and' the qualified ratifications which
many of the states made in favor of amendments.
Eut I ask, did the most penetrating patriot in
the United States, believe it to be pofiible, that
in almost the firft exertions of the new formed
government, any one man, or any combined jun
to, could have had the confidence to attempt, or
the address to dccomplifh a plan which created a
Jieceftity for the exercise of this most obnoxious
of II powers ? and that, in order to create and
aggrandize an independent and all absorbing fifcal
dominion, in the hands of the principal of the
revenue department, such a plan flaould receive
the sanCtion of the legislative body, to which, ex
clusively, the fortunes of the people were commit
ted ? But such has been the result of the intrigues
of the intereftea and ambitious few, combined
againtt the generous and unsuspicious many.
It may, perhaps, be said, that this is specious
declamation : let the fads furnilh th* criterion
to decide the terms upon which the confederated
Hates originally fixed the principles for making
requisitions, which were, that at the end of the
war, a final settlement should be made between
the states individually and the union, and that all
advances for carrying oji the war beyond the lums
.required from the respeCtive states, should bear
an interest of fix per cent, per annum from the
period of making them, until the time the ba
lances were discharged, Upon this condition,
the requfitions were paid ; and upon this condi
tion the respeCtive states contracted and liquidated
debts in iheir separate characters ; such as the
militia and depreciation claims ; for which ac
cording to their circuroftances, the appropriated
■efiicient funds.. In contemplation also of a final
-jfettlementN with the union, and to relieve their
immediate citizens, many of the states redeemed
a great amount of the domestic debt of the union.
-Several of them had paid In their quota of the in
terest facilities j and the delinquent states, per
ceiving that the general government made nc
provision for their exoneration or efca-pe from the
■charge, wcie taking eiTeCiual measures to colleCl
their proportions, so that the whole amount woult
certainly, by this operation alone, have reached
at an early period the public treasury. 1 hus thei
the original contract itood 4 and the federal con
ftitution, so jar from interfering, has expreflj
confirmed it, in the condition, ajrd on the term;
cf its creation. Commifiioners had been ap
pointed with competent powers, were aCtuall;
making progress in the final fettlmcnt of ac
counts j and the respeCtive claims upon the unioi
-were directed to be exhibited against a limitei
day. In this situation of things, the pubiic min<
was naturally led to taxpeCl that upon a final fettle
ment some states would eventually be creditors
and others debtors, according to the state of thei;
compliance with requisitions, or the degree of thei;
voluntary cxettlons is the general caufe-. Fron
the great number of the states, that fappofe<
they had advanced more than their just proportion
there vva* ground to expeCt that the balances ir
favor "of ;hq creditor states would have been bu
art.all j and t certainly for the extinguilhing o
these) it was the duty of the general governmcn
to pro'v'fje. While th*. public expeditions, anc
the weiring claims, as far as they respeCted ftatc
tie bis and facilities, of interest, were entirely di
xeCted to this view of the subjeCt, a number o:
p.ublic creditors applied for relief, by a memorial
ct the fir ft feifion of the firft Corrgrefs ; but a:
organizing the necefTary departments-, &c. una
voidably consumed that fefiion, the petition of tin
public c-teiirors could not be cfcen difcuftcd 5 Uao
to flifw that it •aws not Jly overlooked* th<
mcinoi ial was it'ci red tu the iie-vly created Se
cretary of the treasury. As the creditors »-]
the refpe£tive ftatfcs, or the holder& of
could not, either upon the tooting of the original
contradt, or any exiiting law, demand rei;e. from
Congress, they did not come forward to ask it by
petition j and the truth is, that in many itatesj
fufneient provision was already made for luch oi
thole claims as rema ned undilcharged. Henc«
it appears that the debt# of this defcriplisn, wers
uot referred to the letre'.ary of ciie trealury.
But, as Aaron tinew a number of jewels, of
various forms and quality into the fire, and be
hold ! there came out a cal.% which the people
worshipped ; so Congress threw the public debt
into the fecretarv's political furnace (without de
lining its compofiiion, without prescribing its
lhape, and without pointing out the lources by
which it Should be nourished) and lo : there came
dut, not indeed a iimple calf, but an image of gi
ltature, bearing a metaphorical refcmbla»ce
;o that, which the despot c retted in the plain of
Dura, whole head was ot goM, whole body was
>f brass, and whofc feet was a compound of iron
tnd clay j and oppreHion (prefervi-ng the analo
gy) was prepared for those, who did not fall down
>efore it. Yet, has not this demon, complica
ed of fix per cent. three per cent, and deferred,
i fufficient range of dominion o'er all that the
Atlantic ushers to our (hores—a fufficient num
>er of votaries, in the rank holt of Ipeculators—
>ut he mult riot too, on the hard earned fub
tance of the tiller of the earth, arid make the
liftant cottager his slave ! Blulh, ye, who bask
tnd fatten in his tem; !e !---tremble, ye, who
niniiUr to the cravings of his inordinate appetite !
SIDNEY.
VIENNA, March 4.
The disorder which deprived us of the Emperor
>o me jit inltant, was an inflammation of the
ungs, or rather of all the inteltines. Ever since
lis return from his coronation at Prague, lie had
lad a flight diarrhcea, of which he took littl» no
ice. Those peiTons to whom he mentioned this
ittie indisposition, adviled him to conlult his phy
icians j but unaccult'omed to medicine, he con
tinued his ulual course, not sparing himfelf even
it table, and atted as it he felt no inconvenience.
About three in the morning of the 28th,pains in
he abdomen induced the royal patient to apply to
ihyfic to get rid of the flux and cold with which
le found himfetf at the fame time attacked : but
t was not till near fix that he sent to his phjfi
:ian, M. Laguefiers, who, finding the fever high,
:nd the abdomen distended, judged it necefiary to
et blood ; which not relieving the emperor, he
gain repeated it three times. Ihe night cf the
,Bth he was very unquiet. The physicians, in
onfultation, approved of what had beendone,
s the symptoms of a pleurily had manifested
hemfelves.
His majeity having been relieved during the
light of the 29th, his situation was thought to be
etter } all the court was in that perflation on
he morning of the lit of March. i hey were
niitaken ; and even the firlt physicians were de
eived, and negledted farther remedy until it was
00 late. Even so late as twelve o'clock on that
lay, one of them declared, that without the in
ervention of some unforefeen accident, the em
•eror was out of danger. On this aflertion, eve
y one retired j even the archduke Francis, who
fll this period had not quitted his father's bed.
Just before three, the empress entering the
:hamber, found herhufband quiet, but a few mo
nents afterwards he made forne efforts to reach j
he immediately called for afliftance j in fatt, the
mperor did vomit, and during the effort expired
n the arms of his wife, in the absence of every
ither alfiftant.
The news of the decease of Leopold was no
boner spread through the city, than all the inha
bitants were in coniternation, not being apprized
>f the illness of his Imperial majesty.
Immediately on the decease of the late emperor,
lis august son, K.ing Francis I. took the reins of
government in the Aultrian Monarchy, and gene
rally preserved all the officers of Hate and the court
in their places, both in the capital and the pro
vinces, so that ail the miniltersof the adminiftra
lion will continue their services as in the time
as Leopold II-
Fur.eral of Leopold the Second.—March 7.
On Fiiday the 2d instant the body was removed
into one of the apartments of state, where several
priests attended praying all day and night - ; Next
evening ic was opened in the presence of the Impe
rial physicians and embalmed. The heart was
put into a silver urn, and the entrails into a brass
kettle.
On Sunday at half an hour after two the Aulic
Parson consecrated the body, and it was carried
to the Aulic church, preceded by some Auguftin
and Capuchin Friars.
The valet de chambre of the deceased carried
the kettle with the entrails, and another the gob-
Jet with the heart, both covercd with black taffety.
The body was in an open coffin, dreft in a black
robe laced, the head was covered with a hat adorn
ed with blue imperial feathers, and the body de
corated with all the oiders of it was
guarded by pages with lighted torches, and the
life guards with their swords drawn, followed by
the firft chamberlain. When it arrived at the
Aulic church, which was hung over all in black
with imperial efcuicheons, the body was again
consecrated, and placed on the Lit de parade in the
middle of the church, having on each fide velvet
cufliiona with the imperial crown, sceptre orb,
called the Apple of the empire, the imperial
house (frown ,the Hungarian and Bohemian crowns ;
the Arch duke's hat, the collars of the golden
lleece and St. Stephen's, the military orders ol
Maria The re fa, hat, sword, cane and gloves, ali
guarded by the gtiaioes nobles. Mattes were rea i
■ill noon, -at which the foreign mini iters, privy
Lounfellars, and the nobility of both iexes attend
ed. Morning and evening the Milerere was
by the court band.
The public who had liberty to pass through tc
fee the body, were told bv an exempt on patting,
u Das is dcr Krisse'r"—that is the emperor.
On Monday at oae o'clock in the afternoon, the
u/ — 1
( heart, a fair be:.cofifeedited iigaln, was taken uu
by the two elJeit valets de cliambre, two other
eJc£i cba:r.b;jrlains, and <1 detachment of
German and Hungarian life guards and removed
(othe Augurtin church, received by the priois and
rne monks of the monaitery, ajid placed in ihe
vaults.
immediately after Lhc entrails being eorifecra
ted anew, with che fame attendants as the heart,
were removed by the biihop, the chapter, and the
clergy, carried down to the vaults, and deposited
with the usual forms and prayers.
On the 6th, at fix in the afternoon, the funeral
prcceiTion went out of the church, and after ha
ving crofied the hospital, proceeded to the Capu
chin church, in the following ;
1. Detachment of cavalry.
2. Officers of the Hofpitfel.
3. The clergy, according to their rank with
burning torches in their hands.
4. The curates of the city and fubuibs.
5. The magistrates of ditto.
6. The States of Austria.
7. The members of the Aulic Council of the
emuiie.
8. The Councillors of the court and law, Indif
criminatelv, all drelTed in mourning cloaks.
9. The household officers of the court.
Before ever the above reached the church of the
Capu.hins, his present Majesty, her Majesty the
Queen, his royal highness the Archduke I'alatine,
arrived on Sunday from Sudor) (the Arch
duke Joseph, the superior officers of the Court*
the Knights of the golden Fleece, the Grand Croix
Commanders and Knights of th'e order of Maria
Theresa, and, St. Stephen, the Pri*y Counsellors,
and the Chamberlains, the Exterior Court, the
Ladies, Rettor of the Uraiferfity, and the Metro
politanCbapter, had all'embled to meet the proces
sion in the church.
All the way from the Jofephus square to the
church, pitched lamps were placed, and a line of
infantry on each fide.
A battalion of infantry, and a detachment of
cavalry were under arms on the New-market.
At seven o'clock the body was taken off the
bier by the valets de chambre : the coffin was then
shut, and the benediction performed by the court
chaplain, affiled by the master of ceremonies,
and the other chaplains, in presence of the
carrying lighted torches, and attended by the life
guards, lord Chamberlain, marter of the horse,
and three captains of the guards—it was put into
a mourning coach, glazed all round, and drawn by
fix horses. The procefiion then crolTed Jofephus
square to the Capuchin church in the rullowing
order, viz.
1, A detachment of cavalry.
2, Two lingle horse coaches.
3, Coaches and pair with the valet de cham
bres, and yeoman harbingers.
4, A coach and fix with lord Chamberlain and
the master of the horse.
5, The running footman and valei de corps in
mourning.
6, The mourning coach with the body, sup
ported by cushions. On each fide of the coach
doer two footmen of the court, and £t their
and left, pages with lighted torches.
7, The archers and lifeguard on foot.
8, The guards Hongroiie, Nobles a Cheval,
with drawn swords.
9, Kettle drums and trumpets, muffled.
jo, A company of grenadiers and a detach
ment of cavalry, closed the rear.
This evening, the wakes commenced in the
church of the AuguflinFiiars, which continue tiil
to-morrow- evening.
The firft was performed by the cardinal arch
biihop.
The feccnd is to be performed by another, and
the third by the coadjutory, afßlied by fevera.
other prelates.
The obsequies will then beheld, at which th<
nobility of both l'excs will attend three days ir
deep mourning.
The Capuchin church was prepared for the funeral,
'neral, 2s follows :
In the middle the bier was fix feet high, with j
black velvet canopy over it, fringed with gold* anc
c adorned with the Imperial eagle at each corner.
Round the coffin was placed the regalia befon
" mentioned, with the field marihalPs hat
£ sword, and scars the eight steps of the biei
there were three hundred and seventy-two filvei
candlellicks, and at the corner silver pyramids
with seventy-two wax tapers each.
' The whole church was hung in black, wit!
I eighty candelabres divided by coats of arms, anc
" forty-five lustres.
s The High altar was covered with a rich em
s broidered cloth, having the imperial coat of arm
trimmed round with mourning, and one t'noulam
c seven hundred lights round ir.
The mourning commenced the sixth, and is or
II aered to be continued fix months.
a 1
1- JuJl imported in the Jhip Molly, Captain Pitt
Jrcni Lijbon —
k A few Pipes and Quarter Casks of
LISBON WINE,
,s Far superior in quality to what is genet ally impor
i» ted; and a few Eales if the very Ufl CORKS,
iv To be Sold by
GEORGE MEA DE,
14 Who has also ferf ale, Choiee three andfive years 01,
n Bill of Exchange Madeira Wine,
jßv the PipJ. or Quarter Cash,
LONDON MARKET MADEIRA WIN I
j'] five years old by the pipe, orfquaitr Caik,
s, Choice old Sherry WINE by the quartercail
n Mess BEEF ofa superior quality and Inch as i:
>f fit for an East India Voyage put up in
" this city.
d Choice full quality BEEF do.
> Do Second do.
BOSTON BEEF equal to any from thai
° country.
0 Burlington Pork of the fir ft quality,
arid one hundred and fourteen hhds of
FI.AX SEED,&c.&c.
e May 16 a*, w. lm.
¥OK ft ill S T (5 U
&K TIIE s;ii?
Birmingham Packer,
ijl|gg|j§ LEESON SIMMONS, Matter 5
.1 remji KdbJe fall (ailer, her cargo is all ready";
neveitbelefs to accommodate thole who may be
difpoled to put freight on board, it will be taken
in. She will fail in a few days. The owners
are determined that the ship fliall leave Briflol
wilh the firft fall fliips. 1
For freight or pa/Tag- apply to the Captain ola
board ly.ng at Walnut street Wharf, or
GEORGE MEADE,
fhofe who have goods on board are earnestly
rcquelled to enter them, takeout their pormiti
and give the neceflary direction* to their porter
to attend the ship. May 16. 2aw
Wafhinglon, in the Territory of Columbia.
A Pi" EMI U M
OF joo dollars, or a medal of that value,
at the option of the party, will be giv
sn by the Commissioners of the Federal
Buildings to the person who, before the
Sfteenthday of July next, shall produce to
:hem the most approved plan, if adopted by
:hem, for a Prelident's house to be erected
m this city. The lite of the building, if
:be artist will attend to it, will of courle
nfluence the afpeft and outline of his plan,
indit's defoliation will point out to him
:he number, size, and diflributiqn of the
apartments. It will be a recommendation
jf any plan, if the central p, rt of it may be
detached and erected for the present, with
:he appearance of a complete whole, and
je capable of admitting the additional parts,
n future, if they shall be wanting. Draw
ngs will be expected of the ground plats,
jlevations of each front, and
hrough the building in f'uch direflions as
nay be neceflary to explain the internal
frufture ; and an ellimate of the cubic feet
if brickwork, composing the whole mass of
he walls. The Commissioners.
March 14.
IVaJkington, in the Territory of Columbia.
APRE M I U M
OF a lot in this City to be designated by
impartial judges and 500 dollars; or a
nedal of that value, at the option of the
>arty, will be given by the Commissioners
>f the Federal Buildings, to the person,
•vho, before the fifteenth day of July 1792,
hall produce to them the most approved
>ian, if adopted by them, for a Capitol to
>e erected in this city, and 250 dollars, or
1 medal for the plan deemed next in merit
o the one they shall adopt. The building
obe of brick, and to contain the following
ipartments, to wit. _ „ ~ „
V conference room 7 l '® cient to
\ room for the Re- i accommodate
prefentatives ■ J 3°° persons
V lobby or antichamber to the latter. '
1 Senate room of iaco square feet
area.
Vll antichamber or lobby to the I act. _
2 rooms of 600 square feet area, each, for
ommittee rooms and clerks offices, to be
tf half the elevation of the former. Drawi
ngs will be expe£led of the ground plats,
flevations of each front, and feftions
hrough the building in such directions as
nay be neceflary to explain the internal
trutture, and an estimate of the cubic feet
>f brickwork compoling the whole mass of
:he walls. The Commissioners.
March 14.
T O TH E PUBLIC.
Subscriber has it in contemplation Coon t»
1 decline bis present bufinefs —and having on
land a cenfiaerable quantity of juperfine second and
lajlic cloths, together tuitb a variety of other arti
les in his ioaVt Prepofeito fe'l-their. at the follcwir.z
educsd prices- V 1 Z>
Befl Superfine navy bluz 345,
Ditto. ditto. Scarlet 365.
Common colours fuperflm 32 s.
Elafi.c fripes 0?.
London buff and white caff-iners 1 cjo.
Dit.Oy coloured do, 1 $s.
Yorlfcire do. do• 1
Striped toilertets J4*»
Rattinets 3s.
Striped Nankeens 3.A*
A variety of ivaificoatfbapes proportionably h<w 9
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London beflfilk hefe, from 22f6 to 245.
c fbe above goods have been moflly imported from
ne of the- sirs} Mercantile houses in London, and
Ire of an equal quality to ary imported into Arr.eri
a ; they iv'u'l be fjld per piece or smaller quantity
«'l tnay befi ja l: itepurchafers } ly th' publics ntojf
\utoble fcrvant, JOHN SHEPHERD.
No. 3 South Fourtk-ftreet.
Any yerfon aifpofed to purchase the whole
as the above stock, may a!fo have on rcafonable
terms his present dwelling house, together with
the store, a more eligible fituacion tor bufinefa ia
ths tailor's line is not to be found in this city.
The advantage of this business being so well ella
biiftied by the proprietor wiii be very great, and
from well known fadVa, needs no comment
A lease of fix jears may be had ot the house.
May 14, * tf.
P.RINTED BY
C II I L D S AND SWAIN E,
AT THEIR OFFICE, NO. 209, KIG H-S"T Rt Ef
4* CAR FIFTH-STREET,
f^UADEirH^
o
??*
&??
2-3
<T> o
< 3
s' o
? cr
n>