Vol. I.
AUTHENTIC.
(Never before printed.)
COPIES of the LAWS
Faffed in the
TERRITORY of the UNITED STATES
North-weft of the River Ohio,
By the Governor and Justices thereof,
, Agreeably to the Ordinance of Congress o:
July 13. I*B7, and made out from th<
Original Records in the Office of the Se
cretary for the said Territory.
XI.
An ACT to prohibit the giving or felling in.
toxicating liquors to Indians residing in
or coming into the territory of the Um
ted States, north zuefl of the river Ohio
and for preventing foreigners from tra
ding with Indians therein—pajftd Jul)
19, 1790.
WHEREAS many abuses dangerous
to the lives, peace and property of th<
good people of this territory, and de
rogatory to the dignity of the Unitec
States, have arisen by reason of trader!
and other persons furnifhing fpirituou:
and other intoxicating liquors to the
Indians, inhabiting or coming into the
said territory ; for remedy whereof.
BE itena&ed, that if from and after
the firft day of January next, any
trader or other person whomfocver, re
siding in, coming into, or pafling
through the said territory of the United
States, north-weft of the river Ohio, or
any part thereof, shall presume to fur-
Xlifh. vend, fell,-or give, us flldll *Aircft
or procure to be furnifhed, vended, fold,
or given, upon any account whatever
to any Indian or Indians, or nations or
tribe of Indians, being within the terri
tory aforefaid, any rum, brandy, whis
ky or other intoxicating liquor or drink,
he or she so offending, shall forfeit and
pay for every quart of such liquor, or
drink so furnifhed, the sum of five dol
lars, and for any quantity furnifhed at
one time less than a quart, the sum of
four dollars ; one moiety of each and
every of the several penalties shall go to
the party informing on conviction of
the offender, and the other moiety there
of to the use of the said territory.
And be it further enatled, That if
any person not a fubjeft or citizen of
the United States, or of this territory, or
who owes or piofeffes to owe allegi
ance to any foreign potentate, power,
state, or colony, lhall after the said firft
day of January next, be found within
this territory, buying from, distributing
among, or felling, or giving, to any of
the Indians or nations or tribes of Indi
ans inhabiting the fame, any manner of
goods, wares or merchandize, or other
articlesof commerce, barter or exchange,
he or she so transgressing shall forfeit to
the use of this territory, all his or her
goods and chattels personal, and fuffer
in any of the counties of the said terri
tory imprisonment without bail or
mainprize for a term not exceeding
eighteen months nor less than fix
months ; and if any person being a citi
zen of the United States, or resident
within this territory, shall after the said
firft day of January, go to, reside in, or
ade with Indians at or near any of
\heir towns, settlements or habitations,
lying within the said territory, without
a licence for that purpose firft duly ob
tained, he or she shall forfeit and pay to
the use of this territory the sum of five
hundred dollars: Provided always, That
nothing herein contained shall betaken
or construed to impair or weaken the
powers and authority that now are, or
at any time hereafter may be vested in
the governor and commander in chief,
or other person, as fuperintendant of In
dian affairs,or commifTioner plenipoten
tiary for treating with Indian nations.
By P. FRENEAU: Pnblijhed Mo ndays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
THURSDAY, March i, 1792.
XII.
An ACT prohibiting th;fale of spirituous
and other intoxicating Liquors, tofol
diers in the service of the United States,
being within ten miles of any military
pofl within the territory of the Unitea
States, north-weft of the River Ohio, ana
to prevent the felling or pawning of arms,
ammunition, cloathing and accoutrements.
Passed July 26, 1790.
BE it enacted, That if any person be
ing within ten miles of any en
campment, post, fort, or garrison, 01
hospital for the convalcfcents thereof
now or hereafter to be formed, establish
ed, or erected within this territory, and
occupied* garrisoned or possessed by re
gular troops in the service of the Unit
ed States, or of this territory, shall give,
lell, exchange, or furnifh, or cause, 01
procure to be given, fold, exchanged,
or furnifhed, to any non-commissioned
officer or private soldier (knowing him
to be luch) serving in, or belongihg to
any encampment, post, fort, garrison, or
hospital as aforelaid, any spirituous or
other intoxicating liquor or drink, be
:he quantity more or less, without an
arder in writing previously obtained
From a commillioned officer serving
ivith the fame troops, he or she so of
fending shall on conviction forfeit and
pay to the use of the party firft inform
nS> ( or to 'h e u se of the county where
in the offence is committed if the profe
:ution be at the luit and on behalf of the
United States) the sum of two dollar!
for every gill of such liquor or drink
so furniffied without an order as afore
laid, to be recovered before any two jus
tices of the peace f.ir t:h--wj-rc-r-e
---in the offence shall be committed, ir
cafe the aggregate sum so to be forfeitec
do not exceed twenty dollars, or ii
otherwise by action of debt or inform'
ation in any court of record : Providec
always, Hiatnothing herein before con
tained, (hall be construed to restrain the
Surgeon or Surgeon's mate, having the
care of the convalescents in any fuel
hospital or hofpitals,from procuring foi
the use thereof, any liquor or drink he
may deem needful.
And be it further enacted, That i:
any person shall presume to bargain for
purchase, or receive in pledge, or as «
gift, or cause, or procure to be bargain
ed for, purchased, or received in pledge
or as a gift, on any pretence whatever
all or any part of the public arms, am
munition, cloathing or accoutrement!
pertaining to any non-commissioned of
ficer or private soldier in the service
aforefaid (knowing him to be such) he
or she so oftending, shall on conviction
forfeit and pay for the firft offence, tre
ble the value of the article so purchaf
ed or received, the fame to be recoverec
with costs by action of debt orinforma
tion in any court of record, one half tc
the informer, and the other half to the
United States, or the whole to the Unitec
States, where prosecution shall be fill]
instituted on the public behalf alone
and for every repetition of the like of
fence by the fame person, he or she fc
offending again, shall forfeit and pay ir
like manner treble the value of the ar
ticles purchased or received as afore
laid, together with costs, and shall more
over fuffer imprisonment for a term no!
exceeding one month.
This ast shall commence and be in
force from the firft day of January next
ensuing.
NEWARK, Feb. 22.
Our frontier inhabitants do not pos
sess a foot of land, nor have they at
tempted to take possession of any, but
what has been purchased, with a valua
ble consideration, and ratified by the
most solemn treaties. The value of fix
thousand pounds was paid at one pay
ment forthe Kentucky lands, and at that
time the Indians were perfectly fatistied,
and remained so till persuaded to join
the Britilh, the last war. All the land;
over the Ohio River that have been Ibid
by Congress, were afligiled to them by
the moftfolemn contra&s by the Indians,
and they fufferec! our people to fettle
them in p.'ace, were constantly with
them eve-y day, trading, and fully satis
fled with ' the compensations they hac
received; Governor St. Clair; Judge
Symmes, and the other officers in the
said territory, were determined to sup
port the treaties of the United State:
with the Indians ; but what was the
event ? The Indians paid no regard tc
the laws, Hole their horses, and Wher
complaint was made, their Chiefs said
they could not help it, refufed to punish
the thieves, or even restore the horses.
These complaints only exasperated them,
they murdered several of our traders
and privately took their property, which
obliged the inhabitants to forbid them
:oming to trade ; "the consequence was,
they immediately fell upon the defence
less frontier inhabitants and butchered
them without mercy or discrimination.
It would be full as reasonable to as
sert, that the A.ngels and Devils are in
the fame situation, as to fay " the In
dians are in the fame situation with rcf
pett to us that we were in with refpett to
Great-Britain at the commencement of
the late coHtinental war." Were we
fighting for property we had fold for a
valuable consideration and conveyed by
lolemn treaty? Or was Great-Bi itain
only defending herfelf against a cruel
and mjrcilefs foe, who, unprovoked,
had wantonly in the most barbarous
manner butchered her fubjefts without
jiici rininatiorrr
To give an idea of the present fitua
:ion of our friends in the western coun
:ry, I will publish an extract of a letter,
atel y wrote by a perfonin that country.
" I expect the Indians will be very
troublesome in the spring and summer,
unless Congress should take the matter
up more feriouily, and not fend a hand
ful of men to be destroyed, and have no
other effect than to exasperate them, & if
poflible, make them more inveterate.
If Congress do not fend a powerful army
against them, they will break up all our
I'ettlements over the Ohio river ; for as
soon as the leaves put out, they will be
concealed near our improvements & will
kill so many of our people going to their
work, as will discourage the reft to that
degree, as to drive them all to the Ken
tucky country. I think every person
that has any feeling, must be lenlibleof
the neceflity of vigorous measures, upon
hearing the cruel tortures that are in
flitted upon those unhappy persons that
fall into their hands.— l hink how ma
ny in the course of two years have been
obliged to stand fpettators of their hus
band, wife or children, tortured to death
in the most lingering manner that savage
barbarity could invent—dragged to their
towns, at this moment in slavery, treated
in the most cruel manner, liable, when
ever the barbarous monsters get in a
frolic, to be tortured to death, to grati
fy their vindi&ive and insatiable pafli
ons. The Indians are determined upon
war. When a meflage was sent tc
them last year to purl'uade them tc
peace, they led out one of the prison
ers they had taken and burnt him tc
death, in the most cruel manner, in pre
sence of the meflenger. The subject is
too affe&ing to dwell upon"
My countrymen, be not deceived—
you may be allured the Indians are de
termined upon war, and if you remove
from the western country, they will sol-
Ipw you over the mountains and butcher
the wives and children of those on the
frontier ; for nothing but neceflity will
bring them to a sense of their duty.
Too much time and money has been
spent in fruitleis negociations to bring
them to peace—more than would be just
to give has been ordered, and the alter
native left us is to give up eur frontier
Numb. 36.
inhabitants to their mercy, or fend an
army Sufficient tt> support the war in
their own country, and chastise them
for the unprovoked attack they made
on us the lift war, after receiving our
prefentsand making the moil solemn
assurances of remaining peaceable, and
for the cruel unjust war they are at pre
lent waging against us.
Thefollowing is a table of sixty-eight prin
cipal Towns and Cities of France, placed.
according to their rank, with the number
of Inhabitants in each.
Paris, 680,000 Montauban 20,000
Lyons, 160,000 Douya, 19,500
MarseilleS, 90,000 Valenciennes, 19,500
Bourdcaux, 84,000 Abbeville 19,000
Rouen, 72,000 Havre de Grace, 18,000
Lille, 67,000 Poitiers, VISOO
i/erfailles, 60,000 Sedan, 17,500
Mantz, 58,000 St. Malo, 17,500
Toulouse, 56,000 Dieppe, 17,000
Mimes, 50,000 P u y> 17,000
Jtrafbourg, 46,000 Luneville 16,500
Amiens, 43,500 Moulins, 16,500
\ltiz, 40,000 L'Orien r j 16,500
Drleans, 39,500 Rochefort, 16,000
R.ennes, 35,500 Rochelle 16,000
S'anci, 34,000 Carcaflbnne 15,500
Troyes, 32,500 Perpignan 15,200
32,000 Cambiay 15,000
vlontpelier, 32,000 Riom, 14,800
Brest, 31,000 Nevers, 14,000
Elheiins, 31,000 Alenzon, 13,500
\ngers, 30,000 Mans, 13,500
Toulon, 28,000 Angouleme, 13,000
Dunkirk, 27,000 Colmar 12,500
it. Eticnne, 27,000 Blois 12,000
Jefaacon, 25,500 Chalons lur Sa
one, 12,000
Bourges, 25,000 Bayonne, 11,000
Srenoble, Bar-le-duc *p,Boo
iVix, 24,000 Sr. 10,500
Clermont, 24,000 Cahois 10,000
Limoges, 22,000 Macon, 9,000
Tours, si, 600 Pau, 9,000
Arras, 21,500 Auch, 7,500
Dijon 20,300 SoiiTons, 7,500
[The preceding lift; is extratted from
M. Necker's work upon the finances of
France, in which he gives a short des
cription of the several provinces of
that kingdom. When one coniiders
the means of information which that
jreat minister possessed, and his known
accuracy, l'uch an account muftbe deem
:d very curious and authentic.J
*
On a suitabLe provision for,theCi.£RGY»
[From a late London paper.]
THE firft political movement of this
aody of men, was the alfuming an ex
ternal fanftity of manners, and efta
slifhing a prepoffeflion on the mind-i of
-heir fellow men of something facr'edbc*
ng annexed to their persons and char
ters ; and to heighten an.d improve
this reverence, they pretended frequent
*nd familiar intercourse with the Dei
ty, and that at their intercession he
would grant every petition they prefer
red to him ; and finally, they inculcated
the principle that the supreme Being,
by his partial and peculiar providence,
perpetually interfered in the tranfa&i
ons of individuals, and that thff'r daily
interposition on the behalf of ii ers
was elTentially neceftary to foften an
deprecate his wrath and vengeance.
Thus by flow, but sure degrees, they
reached the lummit of their views, and
got undet their absolute controul, not
only the consciences, but the persons
and property of the bulk of the people,
and retain that dominion until this
hour over ninety-nine hundred parts of
the world j and thus, only, can be ac
counted for this universal infatuation
operating on the contrition, fears, and
appreheafions of the multitude, by the
crafty insinuations of this malignant
tribe ; who,,by the impious tenet of the
constant interference of the deity in the
tranfattions of mankind, precluded the
firft gift of their creator, free agency;
thereby making their God the author
of, or conniver at, all evil. But they
flopped not here ; for ambition, power,anil avarice, know no bounds : in procef
of time they impioully alfuitiei! the prero
gatives and attribntes of the deity; they
made themselves to be worfliipped and
adored ; they poflefled themselves ot tem
poralities and principalities, and trod on the
necks of kings ; and, by the Subordinate
agencyrof their brethren, they sowed dif
fention, religious and civil, throughout eve
ry land, where they obtained a footing-
Upon a retrofpett view of the history ot all
nations, we Ihall find them, either openly
or covertly, the active promoters of perfe
ctions, blood and {laughter, rebellions and
murders.
The foregoing portrait, although mors
immediately applied to the chriitian clerg)
of former times, yet is also jtlftly applicable
to the fame class in every nation of the
GJobe.
It was aptly said, by a very competen!
judge of human nature, that, pritjls of all re
ligions are the fame. Their power, tlieir in
fluence, their consequence, and depredati
ons have ever been obtained under the in
sidious malk of some religious fyfteirt 01
other ; the mockery, the fallacy, the impi
ety of all, will be obvious to every unpreju
diced mind, that strictly scrutinizes their
internal ancl external tenets and principles
therefore, it is full time the malk fhouid bt
taken oft", and mankind released from tin
leading strings of such religious nurses, ant
restored to his native freedom, which ha
been (hackled for so many ages in fuperlti
tious bondage.
We willi not the abolition of the church
es, the priesthood, or religious worihip
our aim is, to fee them all reduced to fuel
aftandard as may do" honour to the over
ruling power, and be confident with rea
son, true,piety, and propriety. It is true
the extenlive arm of Sacerdotal power am
influence lias in these latter times beei
Shortened, and rendered ieSs mischievous
but it is Hill too long, and it behoves ever;
christian government to cut it off.
Itisnotour intention to fend the priest
hood a grazing, but only to reduce them t(
a refpeiiable level. The abject slavery anc
dependence of the subaltern clergy, ha
long been a reproach to the church and le
gillature of every christian government;
but if our plan takes place, there (hall noi
be a ragged curate in his majesty's domini
ons at lealt. As proportions are now be
come the mode ot address on all occasions,
we ihail here adopt it.
Proportion lit. It is humbiy propoSed
that the dignified clergy, under every de
nomination, be divelted of all rank, prece
dence, and title in the llate and church ;
laving and excepting that of Doilor in Di
vinity only, which every member of the
church ihall indifcriininately enjoy on the
fame refpe&able and rational level.
2d. That aperiod be put to the long mis
chievous, illegal, and irreligious practice ol
mixing temporalities with Spiritualities ;
and that all endowments of whatfoevei
kind, annexed to cathedrals, churches,
chapels, and colleges be Sequeltrated, re
stored, and appropriated to the relief of exi
gences of the Itace, and heavy burdens oi
the people.
3d. That the forms of ordination, Sub
scription, and degrees, be wholly abolilhed
as ufelefs —and, to the full, as farcical a;
the noli epijcofari ; and that the king, as su
preme head of the church, (hall, by himfelf.
or by delegation to his ministers of state,
occaiionally ordain and present men ol
found and tried morals and understanding.
to the belt of their knowledge and inform
ation ; profound learning and knowledge
in the dead languages being absolutely non
elfent'ials.
4th. That a considerable reduction flial
Vie made in the number of churches, anc
every c hurch be independent, and but one
incumbent to each chureh ; and in cafe oi
sickness or inability,his place Ihall be Suppli
ed by the incumbent of the next adjoining
pariih, on proper notice given of the necef
lary variation of the hour, for the com
mencement of the lervice.
sth. That a stipend of five hundred
pounds per innum, exempt from all taxes,
office fees, and deductions whatsoever, be
eitabljlhed for every married incumbent,
and three hundred for every one unmarri
ed, in lieu of all tythes, surplice fees, ant
other perquiiites, with a decent and com
i.iodious parsonage house, handsomely fur
nilhed at all points, in the vicinity of the
church, the whole to be kept in repair bj
the government; the stipend to be paic
from the treasury half yearly, the firft hall
year in advance upon their induction ; as
those stipends are more than equal to land
ed estates of eight and five hundred [sound 1
per annum, it cannot but be deemed a res
pectable provilion. Whether the exigen
ces of the state can admit of this ample pro
vision, the legislature alone are the compe
tent judges.
6th. Th;it the reduced dignitaries, ir
compensation for their losses in temporali
ties, Ihall have the preference 011 the new
presentations taking place, and next to
them the Doctors of Divinity of the present
eltablilhment; but as our plan only propos
es one incumbent for cach church, the Su
pernumeraries in orders, which overflow
the land, must not be left to itarve : there
fore, we propose an annuity of one hun-
drtd pounds ft -11 be i'clled upon them for
their live? ; and as many of them wilKdrop
off annually, the state \\ ill soon be reltjafet!
from that burden.
7th. That the Doctors fliall still retain the
lonorary titles, insignia, and
if there are any] of being chaplains to hit
uajeity and the nobility.
Observations on the Western Ter
ritory and the Indian War ;
In a Letter to a Friend.
[ From the American ApUlo.~\ .
Dear Sir,
THE late publication of the Secretary of the
War Department, ptofelfes to give an
iccount of the causes of the preilcnt war, and
is it comes from authority, it eieferves to be treat
id with refpett ; but you will allow me to uft
he freedom ot' an American citizen in remark
ng on some parts of it ; and perhaps what 1
originally intended to lay to you on the sub eft
nav be conveyed in the form of remarks ir
his pioduftion as well as in any form whatever
After mentioning the treaties held with the
ndians in the yeais 1784, 1785 and 1786, the
Secretary tells us, that " certain turbulent anc
nalignant characters, residing among some oi
he northern and weilern tribes, excited com
plaints and uneasiness againjl thojt treatieslr
1 subsequent paragraph he lays, thdt " the go
vernment of the United States had been carefu
ind attentive to obviate the dilfatisfaclion whicl
nad been excited, and to eftablilh us claim tc
he lands relinquifhed,on the principle of eqmt
j/j/epuichafe," and this purchase was made will
;6,000 dollars. Afterwards he fays, "it doc.
lot appear that the present war has been occa
sioned by any dilpute relatively to the buundane
illablilhed by tbe laid treaties." On thole paf
ages 1 would remark,
1. That I have no doubt the Congress ant
heir commitfioners, who framed those treaties
ifted honorably and uprightly according to thei
deas of propriety.
2. There are certain difficulties attending
jurchafes made of the Indians, which have fre
jue.ntly occurred on other limilar occasions;
uch as these—To know when a tribe is full',
ind fairly represented at a treaty ; whether tha
ribe has an exclulive right to the tra£i of coun
ty which they adume to Cede. To make ar
idequate compenlatioi: for the land purchased
ind to know whether that compenlution bt
iquitablv divided amoug those who have a iigh
.0 it. Whether any of these difficulties exit
n regard to these treaties, may be a proper sub
eft of enquiry.
But, 3. Supposing none of them to exifl.
there is one principle on which these treaties
.vere grounded, on our part, which may, with
:he greatell probability, be supposed to have
excited dilfatisfaftion" among the Indians,
ind which no purchase money may have beer
-ble to remove. This principle is that of Sove
reignly. If you will look into the treaties ol
itanwix, M'lntofhand Miami, you will fee the
prominent features of it.
In that of 1784, with the Six Nations, the
word itfelf does not a&ually appear, but yot
will find the language to be " The United State'
?ive peace to the Six Nations and receive then
nto their protection." Inthatof 1785, with the
Wianefots, &c. the language rises a little high
er ; " The Indians acknowledge themselves anc
their tribes to be under the proteflion of the
United States, and of no other Sovereign whatso
ever." In the next treaty, made in 1786, with
the Shawanefe, the language rises into the super
lative degtce, they " acknowledge tbe United
States to be the file and absolute Sovereign of aL
the territory ceded to them by a treaty of peace
made between them and the king of Great Bri
tain."
In conformity to this idea, the lands beyond s
certain boundary are said to be " allotted to the
Indians for hunting ground," and certain tra£ls
within the said hunting ground are lL referved tc
the United States," for forts and trading places;
and the Indians are made to "relinquish all ti
tle or pretence? of title," to the lands on this fide
of the boundary.
From the language used in these treaties, does
It not appear, that the commissioners of the
United States luppofed themselves to represent
the sole and absolute Sovereigns, of the whole
territory comprehended between the Atlantic,
the Milfifippi and the Lakes ; that when they
gave peace to the Indians, fhey had a right tc
rrferve what lands they pleased to themselves, and
allot what lands they pleased to the Indians ?
Now, however fond we may be of the idea
of Sovereignty over the tribes, and over the lands
of thelndrans, and however just a title to it we may
suppose is derived to us from the treaty of peace
made with the king of Great-Biitain, yet we
mult remember that the Indians themselves treat
this idea with contempt; and consider them
selves as absolute proprietors of the country, and
as an independent people ; and if absolute pro
ptiety and independence are not the foul and
e(Fence of sovereignty, 1 know not what is.—
Those natioi.s which have not entered into such
treaties with us mull, according to their own
ideas of independence, despise those who have.
And can we wonder that they refufe our invi
tations to treat of peace, and that the Miami war
rior Ihould " drop the belt off his shoulder," as
Mr. Knox tells us, when such a proposal was
made P since they know, that in signing a treaty
with us they mufl acknowledge our sovereignty
and relinquish their bwn independence by ac
cepting of our proteflion 5 Though we may
tflefl to call those characters " turbulent anc
malignant," who have excited complaints againf
these tieaties ; yet they rr.av pofiubly be revered
among them, as ihe Sons of Liberty were once
among us, though at the fame time they were
loaded with us liarfli and opprobious epithets,
by the friends of British uluipation.
A gentleman of a refpeftable character, whe
is intimately acquainted with the Indians of the
Six Nations, told me, not long since, that th<
western tribes reason on the fubjeft in the famt
manner that Pym and Hambden reasoned againf
the ship money in the time of Charles 1. ant
that we reasoned against the claims of Butain tc
draw our money away by taxes. " What (fa\
they) do you think that the king of Englanc
by making a line in the air with his finger car
give away our land to whom he pleases ? No
our forefathers came out of this earth * man)
hundred years before the king of England's fub
jtfts ever set foot upon it. If you want lane
we will give it you. We always gave it whet
you asked it, and there is enough for us and foi
you ; but you have already more than you car
cultivate. It is not the value of the land that wt
contend foi, but the principle on which you
claim it; if we admit that, we give up our rigl
to the whole." Ought we not to refpefl th<
Indians for holding sentiments so similar to ou
own '
1 will conclude this letter with an extras
from a work of governor Pownal. entitled " tin
Administration of the Colonies." ltisthefenti
ments of an honest man, well acquainted witl
the much injured savages of America, and ma;
with as great propriety be addrelfed to usasi
was to the British government at the lime whei
it was written. ,
"To do justice to our faith and honor, b;
treating the Indians according to the real spin
of our alliances with them ; to do juflice 10 then
in their lands ; to give up that idle, ufelrl
claim of dominion over them, are points aMo
lutely necellury to be adopted into our politics
unleis we have ferioully taken the resolution tt
force our way by war. Until thele points art
adopttd, we {hall never have peace. And it dc
ferves mature deliberation how we engage to set
tleAmeiicaby war.
" While these poor tribes of hunters remain
it will be our own fault if they do not remain it
harmony with us. They are continually wear
ing away, and as they dimimlh or retire, the)
:ede their landsto us in peace; which we thu
in time, as fall as we can really want them, ma;
possess in right and jullice, untainted with thi
impeachment of having gained them by mur
der." Adieu. POLYBIUS. _
* Th: notion which the Indians rfnve imbibed re
fpeßing the origin of the human race, is, that thi
areio out of the foil like trees, and that in a courj,
f time, they were loofenedfrom the earth, and ac
lHired a power of motion on its furface.
PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, Feb. 24 —[Continued']
After the doors were opened, a petitior
of sundry merchants of Philadelphia, tra
ding to India and China, was read, pray
ing the protection and encouragement ol
the general government, either by prohi
biting foreigners from interfering in the
trade, or making a greater diftinftion that
now exists, between the duties impofec
upon goods imported into the United State
immediately from Asia, and those broughi
by the way of Europe—Referred to ;
committee of the whole on the State of tht
Union.
The house then resolved Itfelf into e
committee of the whole, on the refolutiot
refpe&ing the indemnification of Gen.
Greene's estate.
After some debate, the resolution being
amended, was agreed to—yeas, 25, —nays,
22. —The resolution, amended, stands a;
follows :
4 Resolved, that the United States fliall
indemnify the estate of the said Gen Greent
for the said sum last mentioned, and the
interest thereof, or for J'uch sum, as (upon dut
invefigation, by the officers of the treasury, of thi
tranfaElion letween Johu Banks & Co■ and Mejf/s,
Kewcomen £? Collet, in which General Greene was
Cecurity for said Banks & Co.) it fliall appear, thai
neither Gen. Greene, nor his executors, shall have
any payment or compensation for : —Provided
the executors of the said General Greene,
fliall account for a sum, being about/. 2,00 c
(be the fame more or less) recovered oi
John Ferrie, one of the partners of said
Banks and C.o. to be in part of the indem
nification aforefaid; and also fliall make
over, for the use of the United States,
all mortgages, bonds, covenants, or other
counter securities whatsoever, now due.
which were obtained by the said Gen.
Greene in his life time, from the faic
Banks and Co. on account of his being
surety for them as aforefaid, to be sued lot
in the name of the said executors, for the
use of the United States."
The committee havingrifen, and repor
ted the resolution, as amended, —
The house adjourned.
Saturday, Feb. 25.
The House proceeded to the considera
tion of the amendments, proposed by the
Senate, to the bill making further aud
more-effectual provision for the defenfive
projection of the frontiers of the United
States ; —whereupon the galleries were
cleared.
Monday, Feb. 27.
Petitions were read from Jacob Clemens,
Adam Hill, and Stephen Porter, praying
compensations for supplies furniihed, &c.
—from Joseph Kittredge, KbenezerW hi tre
mor e and Martha Whittemore, praying re
newal of certificates —a petition of Joseph
Whipple, collector of Portland diftrift,
praying augmentation of salary—A petition
of Henry Howell Williams, praying com
pensation for injuries fuftaiti'd in the late war
—referred to the Secretary of theTreafury.
Also a petition of Moses onng, praying
payment of a balance of falary—referred to
a private committee. —a petition of Abi
gail Leavenworth, -widow, praying allow
ance of the depreciation upon her late hul
band's half pay ; —which was ordered to lie
on the table.
Mr. S. Bourne, from the committee on
enrolled bills, presented to Mr. Speaker the
" bill relative to the election of a President
and Vice-President of the United States,
and declaring the officer, who lhall ast as
President, in cafe of vacancies in the offices
both of President and Vice-Prefident."
Mr. Speaker signed the fame ; and the com
mittee, before the House adjourned, wait
ed 011 the President of the United States,
and presented it to him, for his approba
tion.
A motion, some days since laid on the ta
ble, by Mr. Gerry, for the appointment of
a committee to bring in a bill for the re
duction of the rates of portage 011 new fpa
pers, was honorably mentioned, and recall
ed to the remembrance of the House, by
Mr. Murray, but was not called up, to be
acted upon.
The order of the day being called for, on
General Jackson's petition, reflecting the
Georgia election,
Mr. Wayne moved a resolution to the
following effect:
•• Refblved, That the time for reading
the evidences and documents on the peti
tion of James Jackson. refpefting the vali
dity of the election for a member to repre
sent the Lower Diftrift of the state of Ge
orgia, in the Congress of the United States,
and those of the fitting member, be post
poned until the Monday in March
next; to the end that the whole of the tes
timonies may come fully before the House,
in order for a free and full investigation of
the merits of that election."
Mr. Speaker laid before the HouSe a let
ter from General Jai.kfoi>, Rating that tip
was waiting at the bar of the House, and
prepared to enter into proof of the"allega
tions set forth in his former petition.
On motion, that the petitioner Ihould be
admitted to be heard in perien, or by coun
sel, —The question being taken, and passing
in the affirmative,
General Jackson having a feat affignedto
lim within the bar, arose, and addreifed the
House in a short speech, which he conclu-
Jed with a declaration, that he was now
sally prepared, and hoped the business
[night come to an immediate trial.
After a debate of some length, the fol
lowing resolution was agreed to —Yeas 36,
—Nays, not counted.
" Kefolved, That the trial of the con
:efted election of Anthony Wayne, return
ed as a member of this House, elected with
n the state of Georgia, be postponed until
:hefecond Monday of March next."
During the course of the debate, an ho
lorable gentleman having said, that the pe
titioner •' consented" to a poftponeinent, —
General Jackson set him right, byinform
ng him and the House, that he " fubmitttdj
lot " consented..' 1 ' 1
Immediately after the passing of the above
-efolution,
Mr. Baldwin moved for leave to lay or,
he table (to be used in such manner as tht
House might think proper) certain paper:
•elative to the election, which the governoi
if Georgia, had, by the direction ot the le
riflature of that commonwealth, tranfmit
:ed to him, to be laid before the House.
Those papers were certified, under the fig
;ature of the governor, and the seal of the
fate.
Objections were made to receiving tht
lapers. .
One gentleman hoped they would not bt
•eceived.
Another thought it improper to produc
hem before the day of trial, and oppofei
their being laid on the table.
A third, besides opposing their accept
ince, talked of moving a resolution,
' That any decision of a state legislature
rending to decide the validity of the elec
:ion of a member of that House, is a viola
:ionand invasion of the rights of the House,
4nd, in order to fliew the sense of the Horn
m the fubjeft, he would, if Mr. Baldwi
in his motion for leave to prefen
the papers, move for calling the yeas t an
nays on the question.
After a debate of three quarters of a
hour, on the fubjeft of receiving the pa
pers,
Mr. Baldwin withdrew them, 'till th
day of trial.Mr. Laurance, from the committee, to
whom were referred two petitions from
merchants of New-York and Philadelphia, ,
refpe&ing the duties on tea, reported a re
foiution, to empower the proper officers to
grant a longer time for the payment of the
duties.
The copies of the Laws of the Western
Territory were referred to the committee
who have under conlideration the petition
of George Turner. —Adjourned.
Tuesday, Feb. 28.
A meflage was received from the Senate,
informing the House that they recede from
some of their amendments to the bill ma
king further and more effectual proviiion
for the defence of the frontiers, disagreed to
by the House, and infifton others.
A memorial was read from the inhabi
tants of Chester county, (Pennsylvania) in
favor of the excile law— and praying it may
not be repealed. This was ligned by fifty
persons.
Mr. Murray presented an address from
J. Churchman ; praying, for reasons set
forth, a lpeedy decilion on his memorial
prefeiued some weeks since, and report
ed on by a feleft committee.
The House took into consideration the
meflage from the Senate —on which it was
ordered that the galleries should be {hut.
The doors being opened, the House went
into committee ot the whole on the militia
bill—Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair.
The committee finiihed the discussion of
the firft section of the bill; the second sec
tion which deiignates the exemptions be
ing read ; Mr. bumpter moved tnat the se
veral descriptions therein mentioned Ihould
be {truck out.
This motion was debated without com
ing to a deciiioajiU a motion was made for
the committee to rife ; the committee ac
cordingly rose. &»
The House, off motion of Mr. William
fon, took up the report of the committee
on the memorial of John Churchman ; the
report being read —a motion for an adjourn
ment was made and carried.
PHILADELPHIA.
March 1, 1792.
The Senate and House of Representatives
of the State of South Carolina, have con
curred in resolving that " the South Caro
lina delegates in Congress be requeued to
exprefsinbothHoufesofCongrefs the pro
priety of their alfuming the whole of the
public debt of South Carolina, incurred in
the prosecution of the late war.'
There being every appearance of a gene
ral aflumption of the residue of the state
debts at this feflion of Congress, the public
are advised not to fell their state certificates
at the present prices, as there mud be a
considerable appreciation of them in a
jhort time [A'. York D.Adv. J
' It is a fa£t pretty well ascertained (fays
a N. York paper) that the realJpecie in the
state does not exceed twelve hundred
thousand dollars ; of which scarcely one
million falls to the share of the city.—lt
is hard to tell, then from whence the pat
rons of the new bank expect to procure
specie, as abafis whereon to erect their
fabric.'
The family of Penn, have constituted the
honorable Thomas M Kean, and Edmund Phy-
Jici, Esq. of Pennsylvania, their attorneys
in fa£t, to fell and dispose of all the property
of said family in the state of Delaware.
The two gentlemen above mentioned, in
consequence of this appointment, have no
tified thePrefident of Delaware of the fame,
and offered to that state the right of pre
emption.
A memorial has been presented to thele
giflature of this state by Mr. James Logan,
praying that the library bequeathed to the
public by his father, the late Dr. Logan,
may be annexed to the Philadelphia public
library.—The Loganian Library is said to
contain alarge|proportionof the best medical
and anatomical authors, besides the classics,
and a vast variety of the best chosen authors
upon agricultural and other fubjefts; to the
amount of several thousand volumes.
A lot has been contra&ed for by the a -
gents of the governor of this state, for the
purpose of erecting thereon the Presi
dent's House. The lot pitched upon, is
•n High (or Market) street, the corner of
Ninth street. Several plans of the house
have been recently submitted to the legisla
ture for their consideration ; and in order
to raise a sum, in addition to what has al
ready been raised, to complete it in" a pro
per stile of elegance, a tax is proposed upon
pleasure carriages.
Very late accounts from Kent I (land
(Chefapeke) fay, that the palfage from
thence to Annapolis over the bay. was en
tirely obstructed by vast quantities of float
ing ice. A {hip, laden with fait, was drift
ing up and down the channel in a most peri
lous situation ; and having some time be
fore grounded on a {hoal, the crew had
been obliged to throw upwards of four
hundred bulhels overboard, to set her afloat
again.
On the 1 Ithand 15th of January last, the ]
Legislature of the State of North Carolina <
palled two resolutions, instructing their Se- i
nators in the Senate of the United States ;
"to uie their conllant and unremitted 1
exertions until they efi'efl having the doors 1
of the Senate of the United States kept 1
open, that the people may have access to
hear the debates of the Senate, when in its 1
legislative, or judicial capacity.
The representatives of the state of Geor
gia have exhibited a second additional ar
ticle of impeachment against Henry Of
borne, Esq. late chief justice of that state,
and one of the judges of the superior court.
The charge in this article is, his ifluing an
arbitrary and illegal warrant to take a citi
zen of the state, with some moveable pro
perty, before one of the justices of the coun
ty of Chatham. —In answer to all which,
Mr. Ofborne declares himfelf not intention
ally guilty of having committed any crime
against the laws of the state, and that in is
suing the said warrant he acted up to the
best of his knowledge for the public weal.
Authentic accounts are received of the
death of Col.Gibson, and ofCapt.Darke.
of wounds received in the engagement with
the united Indian forces, on the 4th of No
vember last. Col. Gibfon died at fort Jef
ferfon on the 10th of December, and Capt.
Darke at the fame place the 25th of Janua
ary.—Si qua, in ea, gloria.—Jama manet.
The Continental Stock in the treasury of
the State of New-York on the 31ft of De
cember last, stood as follows—of fix per
cents 898,847 dollars—three per cents
680,681 dols.-7o cents—deferred, 520,668
dols 66 cents.— On which there was inter
est due, Jan. ift 1793, seventy one thousand
and seven dollars, two cents. —fix per
cents will produce an annual interest,
commencing the ift of Jan. 1792, of thirty
five thousand two hundred and forty eight
dollars, twenty eight cents ; the three per
cents, from ditto, will produce twenty
thousand five hundred and seventy one dol
lars, ninety seven cents ; and the deferred
flock will produce an annual interest,
from Jan ift 1801, of forty four thousand
nine hundred and eighty eight dollars, se
venty two Cents.
The latest advices from St, Domingo are
still fraught with disastrous incidents.
Early in January, the mulattoes (in re
venge for the capture of one of their ar
med cutters with 25 men on board, who
were put to death) maflacred all the whites
then in their power, or that they could get
hold of for some time after. About the
middle of the fame mouth they surprized
Port Piemont, .on the Tiherooa ftiore,
and put eighty white men, women, and
children to death.—The whole of" the
southern diftrift of the island is now in the
hands of the mulattoes, the town of Aux
Cayes and Jacqjiemel excepted, the for
mer of which places is strongly fortified,
with a caEfo about two miles advanced.
A frigate had arrived at the cape, from
France, with 150 soldiers on board, and
accounts that the firft division of the army
destined for the Cape had embarked previ
ous to her departure. This division con
fided of 2 500 men, part of the ißcco that
were decreed by the national aflembly
(others fay only 6000) —
On January 21, detachments of the ne
gro army approached so near the town of
Cape Francois, as to be fired upon from
the batteries—The prices of all Weft
India produce exceflively high, flour from
five to dollars a barrel, dull sale.
We hear from Boston that a new edition
of the AMERICAN GEOGRAPHY, is
now preparing for the press by the Rev.
Jedidiah Morse. The author justly observes,
in his proposals for printing this work, that
no system of American Geography, hitherto
published on the other fide of the Atlantic
by foreigners, is to be implicitly relied on
for information. As an instance of this, he
quotes two egregious errors by European
Geography-mongers ; one of them, who
published his system in 1789, very gravely
informs his readers that " the state of Ver
mont is a vast country, situated eastward of
New-Hampshire ; south of Maflachufetts,
and weft of New-York."—The other, w as
an error imbibed by the celebrated Lord
North, from some such faulty system as that
just mentioned ; his lordfliip having observ
ed in the debate on the Boston Portbill, and
• the bill to remove the board of customs
from the town of Boston, that the mer
chandize would now be landed at Marble
head, in the province of Salem," &c.— The
work now proposed, (fays Mr. Morse) is
designed to remedy the inconveniencies in
cident to most European systems of Geogra
phy, (where they treat of America) by com
prising in one sizeable volume a full and ac
curate description of the American States,
which wilt constitute thefrjlpart. The
second part will comprise an account of the
other three parts of the globe, collected
from the molt Authentic materials.
In a late English paper, the produce of
the British Welt-Indiaiflands, n the arti
cle of sugar, is rated as follows. Jamaica,
90,300 hhds. Barbadoes 2j,000, St. Kitts
25,000, Antigua 23,000, Grenada, 30,000,
Montferat 5500, Nevis 3000, St. Vincent
6000, Dominica, 3000, Tortola 2000, mak
ing in the whole 212,800 hhds.—Angtiilla,
and some other small English islands, make
some sugar, but none for exportation. In
different islands the hogshead differs consi
derably, it being frequently igccwt. grofsin
Jamaica, j\nd often-times not more than a
thousand or twelve hundred wt. in the isl
ands to windward.
Much is said in the London prints of the,
projected new settlement at Sierra Leona,
in Africa, notwithstanding the unhealthi
nefs offthe place, where it is certain, even
the American descendants of African blacks
can scarcely exist, for the insalubrity of the
air. Discerning people have surmised the
whole to be a fclieme to rid the kingdom of
a vast number of fuperfiuous free blacks,
who are considered as a nuisance by the
whites. Another plan is projected for erect
ing a sugar colony on the banks of the river
Gambia, in Africa, for which the fanftion
of the parliament is to be requeftedat their
next fedion.
The fame papers speak with much regret
of the continual emigrations of the English,
I rifh, and Scotch tradesmen and mechan
ics to this country. To prevent this ufe
ful class of men from reaping that due re
turn for their labours in a foreign land,
which their native foil has denied them, the
1110 ft severe laws have been enacted, mak
ing every person who is found any way con
cerned in persuading them away, liable to
a punishment little short of total loss of for
tune, and imprisonment for life. This be
ing the cafe in Britain, it is certainly the
duty of the public of the United States to
throw every encouragement in the way of
those patriotic societies which have been
instituted for the purpose of making the Ac
tuation of emigrants of this kind easy, upon
their arrival, and to put them forward in
their respective occupations.
At Newark, in New-Jersey, an academy
is to be erected in May ensuing, for the in
ftruftion of youth in the English, French,
Latin, and Greek languages, and arts and
sciences. The building is to be sixty feet
in front, and thirty feet in depth, and three
stories high ; the third story to be reserved
for the use of a brotherhood of Free Ma
sons.
The Brig Pratt, belonging to Wilming
ton (D.) put into New-York on Saturday
last from Cape Francois. She brings ac
counts that on the 21ft of January the
blacks took a fort of ten guns near the
Cape, from whence they turned the guns
upon the town and cannonaded it. That a
fireing of mufquetry and artillery was kept
Up die whole Of that night, when, in the
inori.-itKj, the fort was retaken, with a few
prisoners.—The evening the blacks captu
red the fort, they pushed on to the hospital,
a large building containing near two hun
dred lick sailors, every one of whom they
put to death.
Ccnaje view of tie prefmt /late ofjeveral European
powers.
" From the whole tenor of intelligence
it appears, that the two great prepondera
ting powers of Germany will not give up
I theirprefent pacific plan, for any of those
uncertain profpefts that an invasion of
France in the spring, might seem to pro
mise. What adds strength to this opinion
is, the philosophical character of the Fmpe
ror, his extreme caution, and his unwilling -
ness to abandon great objects to the uncer
tain events of war. As to the king of Prus
sia, not a single movement of his has indica
ted any thing hostile, being entirely taker
Up from year to year with amusements and
harmless reviews at Potfdam—ln refpeft to
the German princes, a coalition amongll
them can scarcely be expe&ed, conlidering
the unsettled principles that have always
influenced them, and their being obliged to
obey whatever impulse is given their coun
sels by the king of Pruflia and the emperor;
their united efforts, therefore, can only be
matter of contempt to such a power as
France. Where then shall we look for re
bels to the rights of man ? Perhaps it may
be said, in Sweden and Russia. The lofty
anddefpotic character of the king of Swe
den is well known—and we also know that
he has 12,000 of his belt troops aflembled in
one of his southern provinces, which he
dares not to march out of his kingdom for
fear of intestine insurrections. —As to the
heroine of the north, who fills the world
with the history of her devastations, her de
signs are beyond all doubt favorable to the
restoration ofdefpotifm; and the present
made to the French princes, it is said, was
only a prelude to a present of 18,000 men,
13 ships of the line, and a small fleet of fri
gates —to be sent to conquer 24 millions of
men, who have sworn to exist only under a
free government!—As to the Island so
celebrated, the refidenceof philosophy
and the sciences, the classic land of liberty,
(as Mirabeau termed her) were she only to
make the attempt to restore the reign of
slavery in France, a volcano would burst
from her bosom to scorch into cinders the
vile affertors of a tyrant's claim! —It is
scarcely worth while to mention the Can
tons of Switzerland, Who are entirely occu
pied in preserving their own independence.
The king of Sardinia, has too many fears
for his own fafety, to think of stirring out
of the narrow circle of his own dominions.
11 is reasonable to think, therefore, that he
will neither attack, nor aflift in attackirg.
As to Spain, it would seem, from her various
efforts, that all her cares are confined to
herfelf—Governed, in a manner, by clerical
tiypocrify, lhe esteems the introdutftion of
liberty the fame thing as civil war. It may
ae therefore expected that the will remain
entirely occupied in protefting v and enforc
ing the policy that keeps mankind Jlrangers to
'heir own rights, audintere/ls. [Gaz.Univ.~j
PRICE or STOCKS.
Six per cents, per £. - 24/6.
Three per cents, - . I^/4.
Deferred fix per cents, . 14J10.
Final Settlements . /;
Jndtnts, ... 14 j.
Bank Stock 1 2 Shares 104 per cent advance.
LOTS AND LANDS FOR SALE.
THE Subscriber wi/hes to fell sundry Lots and
Houses in the town of Alexandria, in good
situations for bujinefs } fme of them are unimpro
ved. Also Jevtrul trails of Land in the counties
if Fairfax and Loudoun ; the Fairfax lands are
fiom one and a baf to four miles from Alexandria ;
rbe Loudoun lands 45 to 50 miles. A credit -will
br given for a confiderabli part of the value if re
quired by the purcbafer ; and as noperfon -will buy
Without -viewing the property, a description is ur
necefj'ary, / will aljo fell Jeveral trails of land
on the ■weflern waters, in the inhabited part of the
country, containing from 300 to 2000 acres each.
Those tar.ds will be fold low, either on long credit,
or for money, as may heft suit the purchaser. I
have also a trail of SCO acres of low land in Acco
mack county, on the Eaflern of Virginia ;
about ;o acres of which are cleared, on the waters
of Mafj'ango R ivcr, navigable for boats through the
land. The land is of an excellent quality, and hea
vily timbered, with White-Oak and Pine, and lies
within 4 miles of a landing that a vrjjel of 9 to 10
feet water can load at, Mr. Walter Bayne, who
lives near the land, millpew it to any who may
incline to pur chafe.
JOSJJH WATSON.
Alexandria, Feb. 20 1792.
6/1 a iv*
H O W E L L's t
LARGE MAP of PENNSYLVANIA.
THIS work is engraved in the mofl elegant fiyte,
and will be ready for delivery in the Spring.
It is 63 inches long and 36 inches wide, and for the
mofl part very full of work (except forge small places
of which materials were not to be had) and was
wholly compiled from ailual surveys, acquired at
great expence of money, and more than four years la
bour, and from its manifefipublic utility, the Legis
lature has been pteafed to grant the proprietor ihe
[urn of three hundred pounds.
This map exhibits the County and Township Di
visions, and those of the Surveyors Dijlri&s intht
New-Purchase, Donation and Depreciation Lands -
the waters, portages, and the Canal mountains and
valleys, rcads 9 towns,
He thanks the Public for their very liberal fub
cription, and informs them that it will not be closed
before the middle of April next. He fells his small
maps, on canvajs, folded and cas'd for pocket car.
nage., at ilf6, and plain at 8/4.
READING HOWELL.
North fifihftreet, No. Si—March 1.
, Djlnfl of Pcnnfylvania, to wit:
T> £ it remembered, That on the fourteenth
XJ day of February, in the sixteenth year
ot the independence of the United States
-Z l, H ' BrAc kenridge, of
the said diffrut, hath deposited in this of
ce, the title of a Book, the right whereof
tlie claims as author, in the words follow
ing, to wit: Modern Chivalry, contain
mgtheadventures of Captain John Farrago,
and Teague O'Reg An, his servant :
volume firft-By H. H. Brackneridge.
Quicquid agunt homines, nofri, farrago Libelli.—
Juvenal In conformity to the ast of
the Congress of the United States, entitled,
k An att for the encouragement of learn
lng, by securing the copies of maps, charts,
a ? r !° ' *; 0 t^le authors and proprietors
of iuch copies, during the times therein
mentioned.
Samuel Caldwell, Clerk of the
DiJlriß. of Pennsylvania.
JuJl publiJhed, and to be fold by the Printer,
J. M'C U L L O C H,
No, 1. N. Third-street,
and at mojl of the Book-fores in this city,
MODERN CHIVALRY:
CONTAINING THE
ADVENTURES
Captain JOHN FARRAGO,
TEAGUE O'REGAN
HIS SERVANT.
VOLUME I.
By H. H. BRACKENRIDGE.
Quicquid agunt homines, nojlri, farrago libelli.
Juvenal.
A few Copies of the REPORT of
the Secretary of the Treasury, of the
6th inji. on the PUBLIC DEBT,
may be had at this Office.To the Yeomanry of the United States.
HAPPY for mankind, the present enquiry in
the pbilo fophical world is not the mechan
ilm of the universe, or the composition of its
elements, but the principles of civil society. The
prodigious advantages which Fiance has already
derived from these enquiries, and the alterations
which are daily taking place in other parts of Eu
rope in favor of the rights of man, ihould have
fame influence on the measures of the general go
vernment of the United States ; which are tend
ing in an alarming degree to undermine the liber
ties of our country ; to itrip the farmer, the
mechanic, the manufacturer, and the ufeful
laborer, of all influence and of all importance ;
to consign them to contempt, or at belt, to the
fad privilege of murmuring without redress.
The world has been fufticiently flooded with
the blood of its inhabitants—and free citizens un
der the sanCtion of law have been too often
reduced to misery and wretchedivefs.
In this enlightened age let American rulers
beware how they proceed.—Whatever may be the
opinion of those characters living upon the spoils
of their fellow citizens, or balking in the sun
shine of court-favor, they will find a spirit of re
finance in the people which will not submit to
be opprefled, and a fund of good sense which
cannot be deceived by the arts ot falfe reasoning
or falfe patriotism.
Governments are tranquil when they are adapt
ed to the ideas and lights of the age : But when
ever their regulations become unfuitabJe to the
ideas of the times, and contrary co the opinion
of the people, the rulers /hould look into their
conduCt, and remove every reason of complaint.
All attempts to support unjust measures in this
country, where the people as yet, have so much
power, are absurd, and must ultimately be un
fuccefsful: juftica will finally take place in spite
of all effoits to suppress it.
The fame spirit of arbitrary power which du
ring the last year violated the rights of the great
body of yeomanry by an Excije Laio, now propo
ses to interfere in the occupations of the mecha
nic and manufacturer. A government may waste
the public money ill erecting palaces, statues,
&c. the evil is but temporary, but when it ajfumei
principles injurious to the rights of tht people t and
by arbitrary laws interferes in the occupations oi
its citizens, liberty is but a name. The theory
of such a government is falfehood and mockery j
the practice is oppreflion.
It may be thought improper at this early period
to offer any observations on the justice or wisdom
of the Report of the Secretary of the Treasury on
manufactures. 1c is true we might have waited
for the deliberations and conclusion of Congress
on the fubjeCt. But Congress having adopted a
new method of legislating, by referring the molt
important business of the country to the different
Secretaries, and adopting their reports, experience
juftifies a belief, that the principles of this report
will also be adopted, and will come forward
under the sanCtion of the legislature in the
form of a law. The Sectetary and his friends
in New-York have already prepared the way,
by procuring one of the most unjust: and ar
bitrary laws to be enaCted by the commonwealth
of New-Jersey, that ever difgraccd the govern
ment of a free people ; a law granting to a few
wealthy men the cxclufive jurisdiCtion of fix miles
square; and a variety of unconstitutional privileges,
highly injurious to the citizens of that state. This
Jaw merits your attention, not as a pattern of
justice, but to convince you how dangerous it is
for a free people to place their whole political
fafety on the conduCt of any set of legislators,
when surrounded by artful and designing men. Is
it reasonable, is it just, that a numerous class oi
citizens, whose knowledge in mechanics and ma
nufactures, not less neceflary for the support oi
their families, than ufeful to their country,
should be facrificed to a wealthy few, who have no
other objeCt in view than to add to their ill-gotten
and enormous wealth.
Such being the nature of this corporation, can
it be doubted whether it violates the spirit of all
just: laws? Whether it subverts the principles ol
that equality of which freemen ought to be fa
jealous ? Whether it eftabliihes a class of citizens
with distinCt interests from their fellow citizens ?
Will it not by foitering an inequality of
prove the destruCtion of the equality of rights
and tend firongly to an aristocracy ?
There are two kinds of inequality, the one
personal—that of talent and virtue, the source oi
whatever is excellent and admirable in fociety---
The other that of fortune, which mult exist, be
cause property alone can stimulate to labor ; and
labor, if it were not neceflary to the existence ;
would be indifpenfible to the happiness of man :
But though it be neceflary, yet in its excess it is
the great malady of civil society. The accumu
lation of that power which is conferred by wealth
in the hands of the few is the perpetual fuurce ol
oppreflion and negleCt to the mass of mankind.
The power of the wealthy is farther concentrated
by their tendency to combination, from which,
number, dispersion, indigence, and ignorance,
equally preclude the poor. The wealthy arc
formed into bodies by their profeflions, their dif
ferent degrees of opulence, caHed ranks, theii
knowledge and their small numbers They ne
ceflarily in all countries administer government j
for they alone have /kill and leisure for its
funCti*>ns. Thus circumstanced, nothing can be
more evident than their inevitable preponderance
in the political scale. Ibe preference of partial tc
general inter ejis, is however the great eft of all pub
lic evils. It should, therefore, have been the
objeCt of all laws to repress this malady ; but it
has been their perpetual tendency to aggravate it.
Not content with the inevitable inequality of for
tune, they have fuperadded to it honorary and
political diftinCtions. Not content with the ine
vitable tendency of the wealthy to combine, they
have embodied them in clafles. They have forti
fied these conspiracies against the general interest,
which they ought to have refitted, though they
could not difaim. Laws, it is said, cannot equal
ize men—No---But ought they for that reason
to„aggravate the inequality which they cannot
cure ? Laws cannot inspire unmixed patriotism j
but ought they for that reason to foment that
corporation fpirii wh'ch is its most fatal enemy ?
All p otVihonal combinations, said Mr. Buike,
in one of his late fpeches in Parliament, are dan
gerous in afreeftate. Arguing on the fame prin
ciple, the national assembly of France have pro
ceeded further : They have conceived that the
laws ought to crcatc no inequality or combina
rion, to recognize all onlyincheir capacities as
citizens, and to offer no alTiftance to the natural
preponderance of partial over general inrerelts.
It is not the diitinftions of titles which conftU
cute an aristocracy : it is the principle of partial
afl'ociation. The American aristocrats have fail
edin their attempt to eftjbliih titles cf diftindtions
by law; yet the deftrudtive principles ot ariltocra
cy are too prevalent amongst us, and ought to be
watched with the molt jealous eve.
A FARMER.
From the INDEPENDENT GAZETTEER.
[lnferted by defire.J
Mr. Oswald,
At a fiated meeting of the Germantoivn Society for
promoting domejtic Manufactures t the fo'uo'iving
paper ivas delivered by the Prefident 9 and di
rected to be publijbed.
Centlemen,
AT the last meeting of the society a resolution
was adopted, recommending to the mem
bers to procure the best information respeCting
rhe raising of Bees $ the society being of opinion
chat the profit and advantages to be derived from
this source ofdoroeftic riches merited fo»e at
tention.
It is a received opinion that the bee provides
itfdf with wax and honey from the flowers of
plants, therefore the number of bees whkh may
be kept to advantage in a neighborhood, must de
ipend on the quantum of pasture afforded by , the
surrounding fields. Whenever a particular dis
triCt: of country becomes overstocked, the bees
fuffer, and the quantity of wax and honey col
lected does not recompence the farmer for his at
tention. The ancients were so fenfibJe of this,
that Columella informs us, that as few places are
fp happily situated as to afford plenty of pasture,
it was the 2dvice of Celfus, that after the ver
nal pastures are consumed, the bees should be
transported to places abounding with autumnal
flowers, as was praCtised by conveying the ,b£es
I from Achaia to Attica j and alio in Sicily,
where they were brought to Hybla from the other
parts of the island. Maillet, in his curious des
cription of Egypt, relates that one of their moll
admirable contrivances, is their fending their
bees annually into distant countries, in order to
procure them j afture at a time when they could
not find any at home, and afterwards bringing
them back, like shepherds who travel with their
flocks, and make them feed as they go. The hives
are placed in a boat prepared for the purpose :
After they have remained some days at their Jar
theft station, and are supposed to have gathered
all the wax and honey they could find in the fields
within two or three leagues around, their con
ductors convey them in the fame boats two or
three leagues lower down the river. The author
of the Natural History of Bees gives the Allowing
account of what is praCTlfed in this way in France :
M. Proutau, fays he, keeps a great number of
hives j his situation is one of those in which
flowers are very soon scarce, and where few or
none are seen after the corn is ripened. He then
fends his bees into Beauce, or the Gatinois. This
is a journey of twenty miles ; the hives are pla
ced on a cart, and removed with great care.
As it is more than probable that the members
of this society will not think it proper to remove
their hives in order to procure palture for their
bees, it is necefiary that the number of hives kept
should be in proportion to the pasture afforded by
the neighborhood $ a little experience and obser
vation would soon ascertain this point J when
every neighbor confining himfelf to his propor
tion, the raising of bees might be carried on tc
the advantage of all.
I have conversed with several elderly men whe
have been attentive to bees for forty or fifty years.
They fay the raising of bees is not attended with
the success of former years j and that is owing tc
the want of pasture for these valuable infe£ts.
Straw hives are preferable to any other habita
tions, hecaufe the straw is not as liable to be
heated by the rays of the fun 5 and is a better
lecurity against the cold than any kind cf wood.
The form and fafhion of the common straw hive
is fufiiciently known, but they are often made
too high for their width. The best size is such
as would hold about fix gallons. Whoever makes
use of straw hives should at all times have them
well secured from the inclemency of the weather,
by means of a substantial straw cap j which nol
only preserves the bees from wet, than which no
thing is more injurious, but also preserves the
hive in a more equal temperature, during the se
verity of summer heats and winter colds.
A variety of opinions have been entertained
respeCting the situation and form of an apiary $
experience has pointed out the most simple plan
to be the best. It is now generally allowed, that
the best situation for a hive of bees, is on a stool,
raised about two feet from the ground, and placed
not exadtly level, but a little slanting, that rhe
water which falls on the stool may not incom
mode the bees. If the straw cap is properly form
ed ic will extend over the edges of the stool and
prevent any such injury.
The latter end of August, or the beginning ol
September, the combs are fulleft of honey. This
points out the proper season for taking it. The
old way is to killthe bees—buc many methods have
been recommended for taking the honey without
destroying the infeCt. 1 attempted this new plan,
and injured my stock of bees. Mr. George Shoe
maker and Mr. Lukin9, who have had great ex
perience in raising of bees, met with no better
success both these gentlemen prefer the old me
thod of destroying them. There can be no great
purpose answered in preserving the bees when their
food is taken away 5 for in these circumftances,they
frequently require more care and attention ithan
the .farmer can bestow to preserve them frorrj pe
rishing. The practice of killing the bees when
)ou take their wax and honey, is not so cruel as it
»av appear on the firft view co persons- of great
humanity. The life of che bee's natural!, but
Jiort, and with the Lj managecnent they mult
pass but an i ncomfortible waiter after they
robbed their ( irovr -n.
We have not it neccffary to take no
tice of the natural hitiory, or the economy of the
bee. We may just obfftrve, that the hive is a
2'chool, to which numbers of people ought to be
sent—prudence, industry, benevolence, public fpi
ritednefs, economy, neatnel's and temperance, are
all visible among the bees. These little animals
are all actuated by a social spirit, which fornix
them into a body politic, intimately united, ana
perfectly happy. They all labour for the general
advantage ; having no partial interest, no felfifn
diftindtion to support, they are happy because the
concurrence of their several labours inevitably
produces abundance, which contributes to the
riches of each individual—Let us compare human
societies to this, and they will appear altogether
rrionftrous. Neceliity, reason and philoiophy,
have eftablilhed them for the commendable purpo
fas of mutual aid and benefits } but a spirit of
felfifhnefs deltroys all ; and one half of mankino
to load themselves with fuperfluities, leave the
other destitute of common neceflaries.
ExtraEl of an original letter, written from theinju
iar Weft-Indies*
tc Perhaps there is no in nature more
beautiful than a Planter's country-leal in the Wef
t iilands, where the several improvements and
ornamental appendages have been directed by a
man of taste. The trees and shrubs of the tropi
cal climates have a peculiar afpedl for beauty,
contributing at firft glance to excite thole roman
tic ideas of philosophical solitude and rural feli
city, which a native of the more nojthern parts cf
the world has imbibed from fidiion only. — I was
not long since, invited to a sugar plantation to
pass the night and part of the succeeding day.
The importunity of the owner, and his affedted
anticipation of the pleasure that could not fail to
attend the excursion, was my principal motive for
accepting the invitation.
In approaching to what I had been led to sup
pose a terrestrial paradise, my fatisfadtion was con
siderably abated, on the way, by the negro boy
who had been sent with the horse for my accom
modation. It is almost universally the custom in
these iilands for the attendant to follow the horse
on foot. Jf )ou travel too fa ft for him to keep on
an even pace with you, (which he is obliged to do
at his peril) he twirls a wisp of the horlie's tail
about his fore finger, and by this means is, as it
were, in 'addition to his own exertions, towed
along by the horse, some times at the rate of ten
miles an hour.
Before reaching the mansion house, I patted
through a small village of negroes belongingto the
plantation—not a cheerful look could I observe
amongst the wretched inhabitants, except from
some naked children who had not yet come to a
fenfeof the misery of their condition. —The im
perial buildings (as I may call them) were small,
but neat, convenient, and numerous, surrounded
by and intermingled with a vast number of beauti
ful trees and rtitubt, foma ihem of ihe aroma
tic kind, which, with the profpeft of distant hills,
vallies, plains covered with sugar canes two thirds
grown, and beyond ail, the immense and orbicular
ocean, formed alcenewhich for rural beauty and
magnificence, could not, 1 am certain, be exceed
ed in either of the Indies.
Every thing on a Weil-India plantation wears
the severe afpedi of delpotifm. Thfc tyranny, that
originates with the master proceeds through every
grade of the black domestics, and each becomes a
tyrant in his tura to those over whom chance or
merit gives him a momentary direction. All in
authority go constantly armed with a whip, which
is applied on the moll trifling occasions with an
unfeeling heart and hand.—Do the young ladies
wish to have a sociable family dance, and a petit
use ?—The negro fiddler, commonly a tall young
tellow, perhaps nineteen or twenty years of age, is
called in. He makes some blunder in playing a
march—a severe whipping about the naked iegs is
the sure consequence, as well as .being obliged to
undergo the mortification of returning thanks in
form to the master and mistress of the house for
every stroke infiidted. This is common to all the
Englifli lilands.—l was awaked soon after day
light, in the morning, by the cries of the molt
pungent and agonizing distress, which continued
something more than a quarter of an hour. Up
on enquiry, after rising, 1 found these cries pro
ceeded from about a dozen slaves, who had some
time before ran away, were afterwards appre
hended, put in the dungeon, fed on little else than
water and a scant allowance of potatoes, and had
been sentenced to receive, each, thirty la/hes every
morning for a week. About an hour after, I had
the misfortune to fee these objects j they were
chained together by the neck, employed in carry
ing stones and lime to a new building, appeared
horribly mangled, starved, and naked—their legs
swollen to an enormous size, from a failure of the
dodfcor in extracting the Guinea worm ; their feet
devoured with an infedt called a chiggcr j and, in
fadl, altogether constituting a growpe of human
wretchedness beyond any thing ic was ever my lot
to behold before.
A negro-man was soon after brought to the
house, who had been caught in one of the cane
fields cutting a cane. He confefled the fadfr,
but allured the planter, his master, it was solely
committed to gratify the gnawings of an empty
stomach, the overseer having that m®rning refufed
him his allowance, because he came five minutes
too late. —He was ordered twenty-five la/hes, well
laid on, to warn him how to transgress in future
with a view to alleviate the cravings of hunger.
In northern countries the crack of a whip, even
from a horse driver, is not always accompanied
with the idea of a stroke infilled at the fame
time, on the animal substance. Here, however,
except at the morning alarm, you may be sure it is
| the token of anguish, hear it when you will ;
which is frequently to the distance of three miles
—and once I recoiled*, diftindtty to have heard a
cart-whipping from St. Kirts to St. Euftatia, over
a channel near three leagues wide.
Not to mention several other difagreeab'.e inci
dents of the fame kind as those above, which are
eorrftar.f.'.y faking place on a Weft-India sugar
i iirm, a Itranger v. no c ides in these illands will
fin.i thiii. fiageJa ,s .ts constant as the day*
and may be called the creature or the whole year"
round. Jt is thought iuperfluous to address t-he
realon pr underftanamgs of ignorant barbarians;
and the owner ot this beautiful plantation assured
me, that it hz were to relax but a single week of
his uiual severe discipline, if he were only to seem
the man of /ympathy or pity ; if the Haves were
not made to feel the mod excruciating torments
upon the flighted infringement of his laws, he
and his family would not reft a (ingle night with
out the mod serious danger of having their throat*
cut j or if this did not actually happen, their
be wafted, ruined and embezzled
by their unprincipled domestics.
" It io, replied 1, may heaven deliver me from
ever owning a sugar plantation on this fide the
tropic ! If this fatal sweet wuji be had, let us ra
ther retire to the tore lis of the north, where it is
extra&ed from the sugar maple by the hands of
freedom and innocence. We may there pofiefs
this luxury without a crime ; without steeling the
heart against every feeling of nature and metamor
phosing man into a monlter."
The peculiar.mifcry attending such a rural life
as that I have be.en describing is not a little affect
ing to a foieigner, and all iuch as have not become
unfeeling despots from habits of custom, The
[hades and charming profpe&s of the iilands bring
to mind the innocence of the firft men of the earth,
contrasted with the view of avarice, cruelty, and
tortures every moment inflidted on unfortunate
victims, in addition to poverty, llavcry, and the
severest of all labour.
I returned on a flow walk to the sea port, with
the horse and negro boy, who had before attended
me. Upon alighting, he afiured me I was the
firft man he had ever known, who had been fa
merciful as not to oblige him to follow the horse,
if noton a gallop, at leati on a brisk fix mile trot! '*
— — — .»
Authentic Prb es Current at Philadelphia.
[Dollar ecjual to 100 Cents.]
ASHES Pot per ton 90 Dols. to 100
Ashes pearl 137 — — 140
Bacon flitches, per lb. 6 1-2 cents
Bacon shoulders — — 6 do.
Bees wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27
Brandy. Coniac pr gl. 1 dol. 50 c.
Brandy, common, 1 dol. 26 c.
Butter, in kegs, per lb. 10 c. to 12
Coals, per pufhel, 20 c. to 22
Coffee, per lb. 18 c.
Cotton, per lb. 26 c. to 37
Flax feed, per bufliel, 85 c. to 90
Flour, super fine, per barrel, 5 dols. 13 c.
Common, 4 dols. 74c.
Burr middlings, best, per brl. 4 Juis j 3 c.
Meal Indian 2 dols. 67 c.
Rye 3 dols.
Ship ftuff, per cwt, 1 dol. to 1 dol. 33 c,
Gin, Holland, per cafe, 4 dols.
Ginseng, per lb. 20 c. to 24
Grain, barley, per bufliel, 60 c. to 63
———— best ftielled, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per buihel, 40 c.
Indian com, 40 c. 44, Oats 26 c. pr. buflj.
Rye 5c c. to 54, Wheat 90 to 93, pr. do.
Hams, perlb. 8 c. t« 9
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dol?. to 146 67 c.
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9 c. to 11
Indigo, Carolina, per lb. 40 c. to 1 dol.
Iron, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
Castings, per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nail-rods per ton 96 dols.
Pig, per ton, 24 dols. to 26 dols. 67 c.
Sheet, per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
Lard, hogs, per lb. 9 c. to 10
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
In pigs, 5 dols. 33 c. to 5 dols. 67 c.
Red, ——6 dols. 40 c. to o dols. 67 c.
White, 10 dols. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Myrtle wax per lb. iS c.
Molafles, per gal. 46 c. to 50
Pitch, per barrel, 1 dol. 73 c. to 2 dols.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 11 dols
Lower County, do. 10 dots.
Carolina, do. 9 dols.
Rice, per 100 lb. 2 dols. 67 c.
Rosin, per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 dols. 67 c.
Rum, Antigua, per gallon, 90 c.
Barbadoes, do. do. 77 c.
New-Engiand, &c. 59 c.
Jamaica, 1 do). 12 c.
Windward lfland, 80 to 83 c.
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
Sugar, Havanna, white, per lb. 17 to 18 c.
Brown, per lb. 16 c.
Muscovado, per cwt. 14 dols. to 16 dols.
Lump, per lb. 22 c.
Loaf, Angle refined, 25 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 30 c.
Tallow, refined, per lb. 9 c.
Tar, New-Jersey, 24 gal. to the brl. 1 dol.
Carolina, 32 gal. 1 dol. 33 c. to 1 dol. 67 c.
Tea, Hylon, per !b. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
Hyson /kin, 53 c. to 67
Soufhong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 34 c. to 36
Tobacco, James River, best. per cwt. 3 dols. 60 c«
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 2 dols. 67 c. to 3 dols.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 2 dols. 50 c. to 3 dols.
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl, 33 c. to 8 dl'
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leal, 2 dols. 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dols. 23 c.
Carolina, new, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dols.
Carolina, old, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dels.
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. 67 c. to 2 dols.
Wine, Madeira, per pipe, 106 dl. 67 c. to 200 dl.
Lisbon, 96 dols. to 10c
Teneriffe, per gal. 51 c. to 60 >
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND SWAINE,
AT THE JR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIGH-STREET)
JJEAR SIXTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA.