Vol. I.
rfrom «fe(Lond.)Mo*Ni!»GCHßoNiCLfe.]
L 1
1
UNIVERSAL militarydefpotifiri is, j
beyond all doubt, the system to be ,
enforced and propagated by the con! men- .
tal powers combined agaiiift France. From (
hence one would be led to enquire in what ■
manner this oniverfal military despotism |
will injure the feveial orders of society, ;
the in'terefts of inferior princes, and the
persons and families of dcfpots themselves ;
With regard to aristocracy, in Turkey |
<( there is none of it fubfilting as to fami- j
lies, it being the policy of that govern- ]
ment to interrupt fucceffion3. In Ruffis, ,
the great by birth are difcountenairced, and
live for the mod pait discontented at Mof.
cow ; while new men, foreigners, and
favourites, find their way at court. In
Spain, the grandees are not permitted to
quit the court or capital ; or else when
they wish to travel, even within Spain it
felf, they are obliged to give an account
of their motions ; and new men are daily
iUrting up to supplant them in court fa
vour. Even in France, they were all
lately obliged by a fort of etiquette, which
was the result of a court system, to serve
in the r.rmy, at the fame time that the
allurements of a polished and enlightened
capital were fufficient of themfeves to in
jure their residence in the neighbourhood*
of the coutt. I need not fay more a? to
the aristocracy.—Next come the clergy,
whose dignitaries even in France, were
looked at with a jealous eye, when they
pretended to re fide at their poll of duty in
the provinces. In Ruflu, it was the boall
of Czar Pete? to have reduced his clergy
to much moic fubmifiite terms than
Louis XIV had done. In the dominions
of.- i« Audrinn family, notwithdandiiig
the pretertde! devout charadter of the late
eivipre's, the clergy are plundered, and
rendered daily more and more impotent,
by ever)' branch of her descendants in
their different dominions ; and the pope
has experienced repeated insults or litiga
tions from them all. The decline not
only of religious credulity, but even of
religious f.tith, daily weakens the support
of the clergy; and their riches are
a perpetual temptation to needy princes,
ot source of discontent to the fu'ojedt ; and
that part of these riches therefore which
is tenable, will be assumed by the despot ;
and that part which is unpopular, will be
surrendered to the people, to soothe them
in some moment of difTatisfadtion ; and be
replaced probably in some inadequate man
ner, orelle end in the clergy being t thrown
upon the people for voluntary contributions.
As to the pow/ers and privileges of the
hierarchy, we know from the cases of
Henry Vlfl. of England, and Czar Peter,
how fafhionable it will seem to despots, to
be declared the supreme heads of their re
fpedtive churches; and fuppoling that
they (hould be inclined to contemplate
the clergy, rather as a source of support,
than of hoftiiity, it is still natural that
they should think of making this order at
once obedient and (economical; for which
the method is perfedtly simple, and free
from the objedtions fuggelled by Mr.
.Hume. I mean, by reducing the whole
clerical efti.blifhment to its gospel limpli
•city, and appointing all the members of it;
giving them a previous bigotted and eti
llaved education, rendering the chiefs of
it few, and utterly dependent, piofcribing
ill novelties, nuking its ceremonies paya
ble out erf civil funds, and obliging civil
and military personages to give such a
character of ostentation to religion, as it is
thought necefiary it should receive. So
much for the clergy —Next comes the
ftnate, compounded in part of the pre
ceding orders. Civil power we have lup
pofed extindt, for inter arma ItgesJtlent, of
what use then is the senate ? To do good,
it it inadequate ; ar.d when there is no
public, it cannot even expedt the pay given
to mercenaries, focthe evils it might other
*i£t fandtian, as ih intermediate body.
By P. FRENEAUi Publijhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum .
SATURDAY, O&ober 20, 1792.
To fee the extremity of the evil, let it be i
remafiibered that Caligula made his horse ;
into a consul; and that Didius after hav- (
ing bought the Roman Purple, which was I
openly put to auction by the pretorian
guards, went strait to the senate to tell i
them in express wdrds, that they Wanted 1
an emperor, and lie was the man to an- i
fwer their purpose ; and Charles XII. of i
fjweden, when he was wandering aboat i
Germany and Poland, wafting the forces l
arid treasures of his people, and Embroiling :
their intereil, sent word to his senate, that i
if they refufed obedience to his orders*
he would fend back his boot to govern I
them —As to the third eftatc, it Wants its <
name, when the second is extingnifhed. <
B lit evert in its more expanded (hape, of i
private citizens, what is it but the mere !
fubilratum of power ; beings who are to I
labour, but not to enjoy ; who are to fuf- <
fer not to complain, and who arc to
contribute without receiving any other i
protection for it, than is suggested by ca- i
price, or commanded by intefeft. S ife I
neither in property rfor in person ; denied
the power of locomotion for their own
purposes, but forced to abandon their
homes and families for the obi cits of pow
cr ; dragged even into wars against their
inclinations, there to provoke the revenge
of an enemy, or to confirm their own fla
very and that of other nations ( their pro
perty and their labour pressed into the
service of the despot or his fnbalterns,
whenever it suits their purposes ; no utte
ranee allowed to any of their wrongs, each
ta*n being too wife to fpeakopenly,ana yet
afraid of his neighbour in private ; these
and a thousand limilar circumltances, are
so ordinary in despotic countries, as scarce
ly to excite notice : but madmen indeed
are those, who ate content to let such a lot
become their own.—Trade, commerce,
agriculture, and the arts, cannot exist
« • •
where capita), laws, activity and know
ledge are wanting. We might as well
expedt the vegetable and animal world to
exist without the vivifying power of the
fun.—Belides, tyranny never will, allow
that long continuance of tranquility and
confidence, and that identity of laws,
which are necelury for the flow procefles
of induflry, and that fifcerhood in it, with
out which there is little of it which can
prosper. Arts of amusement, such ar.
intiflc, and watch making, which lad was
the occupation of the grave Charles the
Fifth ; or else the military profefTion,
while attention to it is found neceflary ;
together with ceitain eftabliftiments of a
public nature, which though profufely or
unfkilfiilly conducted, yet will be sure of
protedtion, because in the hands of him
who is trtader of everything, may to a
certain degree floitriftl j and botany, che
midry, and mathematics may retain a ha
zardous existence, because they may be
cultivated without lending any spring and
extension to the human mind, and there
fore without causing umbrage ; but ac
cident alone can lead us to expedt any
great enlargement of tiiis catalogue of
objedts beyond mere articles of necessity.
—The effedt of an inroad upou the laws is
too easily comprehended to require much
illnflration ; yet even here I (hall observe,
that from the judicial and legislative
branches retting in the fame hands, in the
cafe of defpotii'm, the adminidratisn of
justice must neceflarily require much in
; liability; the violence and caprice of the
despot will add to this evil ; and ilill more
I his favouritifm and the venality of his fnb
i altern». Courts of law in these situations
i only afford a more cxpenfive mode of ar
• riving at injujlice, and have the finglc ad ,
? vantage of bringing suits to some iltue.
Be it observed, however, that under these
circnm(lances foreniic talents have little
f chance of making progress, unless under
, the wing of favour ; and that the profef
> fional pay of the lawyer 15 here small, and
1 hi* consideration in his country trifling,
. compared with what is known in England,
. whwe the law has been the foundatioa of
many noble and wealthy families, as well
as of the molt fplertdid deputations : 'some
of our very barriitets, for example, having
been kuowh in many parts of Europe.
We now come to two critical bodies, hii
nifters and the army. In England we
have seen a miilifter capable of holding his
sovereign at bay ; and one of the common
modes of attaining apoft in administration
is, by becoming important in opposition ;
the career to high offices also is open to
all j and to be eje&ed from ministry is no
dilgtace, but nay even produce honor.
How different is this from despotic coun
tries, where minilters live by the . breath
of a tyrant ; where death, banlfhment, or
difgracc, mark a reverse of fortune ; where
it is commonly an etiquette, never to rein
date the fallen ; and where they afe often
treated with such contempt in the con
cerns of their office, that the late king of
Prufiia is affirmed once to have said to his
njinilters, Canaille, arranged <v>>us. No'
%ate opens a road to power ; and to I
of alarming the public on public to
pics, would be instant death. In this (late
of things these is nothing to expedt but
from prostitution, from bribery, and from
intrigue ; and the difpenfor of offices and
power, is commonly a mistress in male
courts, a paramour in female ones, and
pimps, panders, domeflics, flatterers and
intriguers in all of them.—Lastly, we are
to speak of the army ; for the army at
lead, as the instrument of all, will be
thought an order in. the date, not only
sure of protedtion, but of solid encourage
ment. By no means. The common sol
dier is no where more opprelled, than in
despotic dates ; for to give room, sos to
keep up many troops, he is poorly paid;
and to supply the want of inclination, he
tfc made a mere machine, and the moving
power of which is his fear. In all armies
too, there is the diftindtion of body guards
or pretorian bands on the one fide, and
the marching regiments or troops of the
line on the other. The former may be
carefTed, and the latter neglected : Trie
foimer are near the source of court favors,
hold the sovereign in their hands, and are
the commencers of revolutions ; but the
iatter are considered as little more than
ordinary fubjedts ; and when any part of
them are discontented, the reft are made
to oppose them ; which, in a vast army,
is perfedtly eaiy. Who can deny too.
that favourites proceed by a rapid progrels
to principal commands, in defiance of vet e
ran pretensions; and that civil suspicions
and punilhments are eaiily extended to mi
litary persons. Besides, who is there likely
to rebel from civic feelings in adefpotiear
iny, made up by policy from vagrants and
banditti, from foreign or from lavage ma
terials, and where every thing is kept as
much infnlated and d'.feonneited a3 possi
ble, unless where any of the parties poffeis
kindrted principles and interells witli the
despot ? In ihort, a great army i 3 easily
kept under by civil and military laws, aed
a few executioners. What then is to be
the new privilege, or consolation of the
fiulviier oe officer, who in addition to his
military duty is employed to wring taxes
from the poor, to inforce the rigours of
punilhraent, to adt peihaps againlt his
friends or his native province, and to take
up his quarters in abjedt or deserted coun
tries?— Thus we have gone through the
principal orders of focietv, as situated un
der the blasting Operation of a wide spread
ing despotism. Let the m;n who be
friends it, go and live in Turkey and Mo
rocco, as places congenial to his loul.
Let us, in this part of Europe at least,
lift againfl it not only our faces, but our;
fwo'ds,"
In refpedt to the coalition of powers a
gainst France, and the natuial rights of
man, it may be compared to Aaron's rod,
which will fwaliow up the forces of every
other power. This mifchief will happen,
without care, before the world fufpedts
it 5 and no care is fufficient, but that of
demanding an immediate celLition of the
Numb. 102.
Concert of princes ; for if the concert
proceeds, and attains its object, despotism,
unknown (I will do the parties the ju/lice
to suppose) to the wishes of the original
a&ors, will rapidly produce its effects.
Scruples will not long delay the horrid tra
gedy, which however may pass to be acted
in its last fccnes into new and other hands.
But causes will always accomplish their
consequences ; and despotism having al
ways the fame materials to work upon in
those niliffg and rtiled, will generate those
consequences, with a celerity of which I
(hall give but two instances. The firft
is that of Alexander, who was in many
refpefts the boafl of antiquity, but who
inflantly after the fuccefsful contest which
his fathtr and' himfelf had had with the
free nations of Greece and Thrace, tho'
he had Philip for his father, Arillot'le for
his tutor, a ci ilized world which he much
admired for his judges ; though he had
peculiar magnanimity, talents, and love of
science, yet in the course of conquering
the world, killed "his friend in drink, burn
ed a city to arr.ufe a (trumpet, and sighed
when his cruel and fantaltic powe- wa3
checked for want of ohj .'fts. The second
example is drawn from Rome, where, af
ter the calm in htlman affairs produced by
Augulluß, none could have fufpefted a
sudden reverse ; yet, in what quick fuc
eeflion did four monllefs appear, rivglljng
and furpalfirrg each other in wickednrfa
and mifchief, and tormenting not.only fo
reign nations and their fnbjedt*, but carry
ing (laughter into the bofotn cf their Own
families ? Soon indeed was it fouud, thaS
Julia, MelTalina, and Eauftina (hewed that
women in a scene of unbounded licenfs
could be as execrable as men ; and (till
farther to prove that levity and cruelty
were cafily "to be affocisted -in the fame
breast, the lame characters which either
formed the wiih that Rome might have
but one neck, or were ready to execute
the full purport of it. fought to play the
part of buffoons and gladiators upon the
(tagc before their subjects, as the great ob
ject of the r ambition.
In one word, (I address myfelf to the
friends of liberty and virtue) beware. You
are in no common times. Powerful princes,
instead of attacking each other for booty,
have began upon the fyitem of attacking
you. Unite on your fide, for it is a corr.r
mon cause It is in vain to think when
this new mifchief is once under way, that
you can fay to it, go thus jar anil no farther.
The parties are poffclTed of this peciftiar
advantage, that they no't only can product
large forces, but they keep large forces
luayt on foot, and therefore are ready to
a£t at a moment's warning, in ord'tr to se
cure their objects. After their fyllem has
obtained a ceitaiti progress, they will b«
hurried on in it, and become unable to
!lop themfclves. And do not flatter your
i'elves that it will ever be retrograde, parti
cularly on account of the apparent 'civili
zation of mankind. We who are to be
devoured indeed are civilized ; but remem
ber that those who are to devour us were
yelWr&iv only Tartars and Cossacks, and
other savage clans ; and that although a
few of their leaders - have that oujlide por
lifh, which you fee is consistent with stony
hearts : yet that when thefo leaders die,
or become corrupted, theJlamina of their
people are fucli, as.fit thctu for supporting
any projeS oj any nature.
« ■ ""**
LOVES of the PLANTS.
AVERY curious system of the rela
tive (economy of plants, was some
years since publiflicd by Sir Charles Uup
ui'us, of Sweden, who may justly be styled
the author of the sexual iyftem of botany.
His system has (ince been improved orl
and embtllifhed by Mr. Darwin, of Great-
Britain, who has publithed a poetical work
on tie fubjeft, adorned with moll elegant
engravings. His Leading idea is that one
plant of each natural order was createdin the beginning, and that the intermar
riages ofthefc produced one plant of every
genus or family, and that the intermarri
ages of these gcneric or family plant.',
produced all the fpccies ; and lalHy, that
the intermarriages of the individuals of
the species produced the varieties. The
idea of this whole fyltem is wholly ration
al ; but contidered ouly as a work of fan
cy, Mr. Darwin's poem is exquisitely
beautiful and entertaining. The follow
ing is his description of the Mimosa, or
fenlitive plant.
Weak with nice sense, the chaste Mimosa (lands
Frein each rude touch withdraws her timid hands;
Oft as light clouds o'erpafs the summer glade,
Aiarm'd, (he trembles at the moving (hade,
And feels, alive through all her tender form
The whifper'd murmurs of the gathering storm,
Shuts her fwect eye lids to approaching night,
And bails with frelhen d charms the riling light.
V-tiPd with gay decency and modest pride,
Slow to the Mosque (he moves, an eallern bride ,
There herfoft vows unceasing love record,
Queen of the bright Sera'lio of her lord-
So finks, or ri(es with the changeful hour
The liquid silver in the glafly tower !
Oct. 18.
" 11 n
FOREIGN NEWS:
T. O N D O N, Aug. 14 —20.
A temperate reform in church and state
is now called for, almost univerlally, by
men of literature and faience. Efta'blidi
nients, well adapted to an age ofbarbarifm,
ought to be reviewed in an age of civiliza
tion, and rendered compatible with the
progrellive improvement of the christian
world.
The creed of Athanajius, with the conco
mitant anathemas, can hardly now be pro
nounced from the pulpit by any learned di
vine ; nor is it confident with the genius
of our holy religion, to condemn whole
tribes of mankind to all eternity, because
they differ from others in some points of
metaphysics. Yet superstition still adheres
to liturgies and solecism to creeds-, nor have
the penal laws, refpe&ing religion, hither
to ceased to disgrace the statute book of
England, though brought under the review
of the legislature, by a statesman, of the
firft rank of abilities in the Britifli Se
nate.
Such absurdities, however, cannot be
long maintained ; and a propensity to re
form is likely to originate within the bo
som of the eilablifhed church. Mr. Stock
dale, in addreliing his d:ocefan, has descri
bed genius, literature, and science, as al
moll invincible obftruftious to ecclesiastical
preferment. Nor does he exhaust his elo
quence in general declamation, but has fpe
cified individuals, under episcopal patron
age, whom we fhallnot presume to describe.
M. B. perhaps, may come forward as their
counlel, but the brother of Alderman Curtis
is not mentioned in the lift. The dignita
ries of the church ought, surely, to be pa
trons of learning, detectors of superstition,
not its advocates, and the propagators of
moral truth. But the doctrines of real re
ligion, by being incorporated with supersti
tion, have too often been exposed to deri
sion. Preserve them in their genuine puri
ty. and they uitift infallibly command ref
pecl. A reform then in the church, if con
duced with propriety, would tend as effec
tually to adorn eccleliaftics, and to confer
true dignity on them as prelates,as a reform
in the itate would redound to the honor of
the people at large, and exalt the dignity of
the superior orders. Happy, said Plato, will
tie people be, when their rulers are pbi
lofophers. That a:ra seems now to have
commenced in both heniifperee; and in
the progress of civilization, the prediction of
Plato will be realized in the government of
nations.
In an American paper, which lately came
to hand, we find the following paragraph :
Nezvhampjluie, Keene, March 22.
"A singular fact— We hear from Enfield,
in the upper part of this county, that as
t.vo men were eroding a pond in pursuit of
a moose-deer, one of them being thirsty,
aid perce ving a hole which had been cut
through the ice by some fifhermen, he
stooped down to drink, but being poflcded j
of a long red nose, a fidi ftippofed he had !
some bait, and made bold to (nap at it, when
t te man suddenly throwing his head back,
drew out a trout, which weighed three '
pounds four ounces !"
Since the dilcovery of the circulation of the
blood there has not been arii:coveryequal to
this—nothing which will tend more to fa
cilitate the art of angling, and render the
implements of fid'.ery so cheap. Immedi
ately 011 reading this account a gentleman
Went to the New-I'oi k coft'ee-Jioufe, and
enquired if any perfotis had very larely ar
rivtd from America. He found several,
who confirmed the truth of this fail, by pro
ducing other liewfpapers, into which ,1 nad
been copied. The evidence was now com
plete, a id he immediately fat down to im
prove upon the dillor v. The leading
fact here eitabliftied is, that " red noses area
$ooH and fufficient iaitfor trout. 1 ' We will not
ltop here to d.Here on uie Jnoofe-huniiiig,
which probably is a diversion peculiar to
Enfield, in New-Hamplhire, as hunting the
lleeple is in some provinces in England, not
to (peak of chafing butterflies and empe
ror's ot Morocco—but will proceed to ob
lerve upon the fa£t itfelf, that if due en
couragement is given to the breed of red
noses, catching trout will soon be as easy
as taking fnuft". To ascertain the fa£t, how
ever, by experiment, which, now and then,
is a pretty certain way of proving farts, the
gentleman went down to his country feat
in Surry, where he has an excellent fifh
pond. Oil his arrival he called together
liis tenants and servants, that he might find
■a proper person, that is, a person with a
proper nose, long and red, as described in
the New-Hamplhire account. With some
difficulty he discovered a nose of the proper
dimenlions, namely, three inches and an half
long, and at the broadefl part, one inch and
three quarters. A better nose could not
be conceived as to length, but it wanted
redness. He was I'utprized at this, because
the fellow who owned the nose, had often
been brought before him, as a justice of
peace, for getting drunk and romping with
the maids. His servant, however, whis
pered him, " your honour will please to re
member that you took away the fpirit-li
ccnce from the public house lait year.''
This accounted for the matter at once. He
took the feiiow into the house, and fending
to town for a lix gallon keg of true Britifil
spirits, he pretended to make this fellow
keeper of it. The scheme answered, for
in less than a month he had reason to think
his nose a fufficient temptation to any trout
in the kingdom. He then took him to the
pond, and inftrufted him how to proceed.
He lay for an hour with his nose about half
an inch in the water, but nothing came.
1 he gentleman encouraged him, however,
to perlevere, and to his utter joy, a trout of
the precise weight, described in the printed
account from New-England, in an uaguar
ded moment, (educed by acrimfon concu
piscence, made a bile at the fellow's nose ;
who throwing his head back, as he had been
taught, produced the fifh, The fact was
so plain that the gentleman made him re
peat the experiment, and it was always at
tended with equal success.
Algiers.—The conditions prescribed by
the Dey, and accepted by Mr. Schulde
brand, t'he Swedish consul, are as follow :
1. To pay immediately to the Dey the
sum of jo,ooo Algerine sequins, and pro
portional sums to the great officers of
state.
2. Sweden engages to furnifh the Dey
with 24 pieces of cannon, 24 pounders.
3. Sweden engages to pay annually the
sum of 120,000 sequins in money, or the
value in ammunition, to be determined by
the choice of the Dey.
4. If the regency of Algiers fl.ould be in
want of veflels, Sweden undertakes to pro.
cure. The price of freight to be regulated
by the Dey.
j. Every two years the consul (hall dis
tribute among the court a present of dia
monds, watches, gold fluffs, and woollen
cloths, instead of the money which was
formerly distributed at the fame period.
Amjlerdam, Aug. 17. —The wrent events in
France have thrown all the men of dilrretion
in ihe United Provinces into confufion. At Am
llerdam and Rotterdam it is much feared that
fcvcral private fottunes aie totally facrificed,
and that France will gradually find hcrfclf more
and more unable to fulhl her pccuniaty en
gagements with foreigners. As yet, however,
ihe funds have not fullered.
M. dc Maulde, minifler of France having
wilhed to depart on the iC th of Augtifl, for bis
ordinary, with the grand penlioner, was induced
to Ihut up his doors, on its being lignified that
he was no longer recognized, as a minillcr, (ir.ee
the lufpenfion of the king of France. It is
thought that the fame conduct will be followed
by all the other powers, and that that kingdom
will thus have no minifler acknowledged on any
fide. It :s further fa'id, that the (hip builders
in Holland are preparing in hade all the ved'els
of war. It is a qucdion whether a fleet (hall put
to sea, and as the Enghfh mir.ifter is frequently
I'een in conference with the (late members o(
the republic, it is concluded that Great-Britain
will likewise trice a part in the attack of France
for the ellabliffitnent of the throne.
T
Asto the ariniesof PrulTiaand Aufliia, their
generals become very ur.eafy on the fubjett ot
desertion. They fear that a great part of the
soldiers will join the French, when the aflion
fiiall be about to commence. It is certain, that
if the armies of I'ruffia and Austria (hall experi
ence great desertions, it will not be poflible for
the Sovereigns to foim others.
Theccur- of Orange is always at Breda—The
young piinceflt s employ their time in the entei
tainmenis of the theatre ; but their mother, the
eonfort of the fladtholder, holdsan aQive corres
pondence with the principal cabinets of Eu
rope. The couit will reiurn to the Hague on
the27th of August.
[Extracts from French papers.]
Metz, Aug. 10.—A11 incident lately took
plate on the Irontiers which cannot fail to
let French bravery in a itriking point oi
view. A peasant having been taken pri
soner by a party of Hulan., \va> conducted
to their colonel, who, -a 'nor a he came
into his preler.ee, cicm*..- . ti v.iiat was his
opinion of the war, snd whether he thought
favourably of the French ? The rustic look
ing at him with a stern countenance, a Iked
in his turn, if he might be allowed to speak
his mind with freedom ? Yes, (replied the
colonel) fay whatever yon have a mind—
1 wi(h to know then (said the countryman)
Whether you intend to inarch to Paris ? " Certainly,
anlvvered the colonel, but all in good time,
friendln cafe you attempt it, said the other,
your mafias mujl raifs two hundred thousand jrefh
recruits every month, and even then they wilt hove
10 support a twenty years war, upon the / Irength cj
a treasury that is already well nigh exhaujled—
bef.des, they will have seven mountains to march o
vtr, each of which is the next thing to inaccejfible.
The colonel, with some surprize, asked
what mountains these could be ? Mountains!
said the fellow ; why, they are mountains that
will be raised of the carcases of three millions of pa
triotic Frenchmen, who haveJworn to prefer death
toflavery ! The officer, in an agony of rage,
drew hisfwovd and menaced to cut oft" the
countryman's head—He then cried out —
You promised to hear me patiently ; I have spoken
the truth, and nothing but the truth—fiTike then,
and welcome! These words, dilplaving an
unexpected dignity of foul, entirely disarm
ed the colonel of all further resentment.
Who immediately wrote him a discharge,
and sent him home to his friends and fa
mily.
Madrid, Aug. %—A new maritime expedi
dition has been lately set on foot. The
vefTels are abundantly supplied with provi
sions, able seamen, and experienced of
ficers ; the fleet consists of eight hrigantines,
destined to be absent fix years on a voyage
of Science the result of which, if they are
foe■•efsfnl, cannot otherwise than be highly
conducive to the advancement of the nautical
art, geography, agronomy, natural history,
and the knowledge of the globe we inhabit.
This squadron undertakes four separate
expeditions, whose object is nearly the
fame, to determine with all pofiible pre
cision that immense length ofcoaft which
bounds the Spanifli Empire in all parts of
the globe. This object however, is not
the sole one : from their observations is to
be compiled a maritime Atlas, cleared of
all that multiplicity of errors which dis
grace the works of the ablest navigators of
former times ; they are enjoined to make
exact charts of all seas, i (lands, continents,
&c. that shall be in their several routs,
during the conrfe of their immense voy
age. The ardour of these our modern Ar
gonauts is redoubled by the news lately re
ceived of the squadron under the command
of Don Alexander Rlalafpina. This officer,
after traversing the Vast Ocean that bounds
the northern coalts of the western fide of
America, and surveying those coafls with
all poflible exarfnefs, returned by the fame
rout, and anchored in the port of Acapnl
co, on the Mexican ocean. There lie caus
ed two light vessels to be built, with which
lie undertook to fail northward again, coal
ing the American shore?, with a view 10
decide the^ famous question, whether there
existed a communication between the At
lantic and Pacific oceans The re
peated attempts of the English 011 the
leafteru fide of North America, together
with the efforts of the celebrated Cooke in
his last voyage 011 the wefterll, had the f-ine
object in view. After his death captain
. lerke, King, &c. attempted it; the Ruf
fians and Spaniards had also made a multi
plicity of voyages for the fame purpose ;
from all of which it was inco'ntefliblv pro
ved that noftich communication existed by ;
any gulph or inlet into the com nent from
the main ocean, as was formerly believed,
to be the cafe. But it still remains doubt
ful, whether ihtre may not be inch a pallage
by some river which discharges itfelf into
the western ocean from the northern con- '
tinent of America, communicating with ihe
northern Atlantic through Baffin's,or rather
Hudson's bay, which extends much the
fartheftinto the continent. These two Imall
vefieis may be supposed tobs now 011 their
discoveries ; and to prevent any failure, no
navigable river on the whole northern coast
is to be left unexplored, to the head of na
vigation, and even every branch is to be ex
amined with the most fcrupulotiscare. The
solution ot this grand question is in every
respect worthy of the Spanish nation, pof
feflingfuch prodigious tracts of colony a.-, they
clo in America. It is also hoped that every
enlightened nation, whose interests are the
fame with ours, will aid us in such an ex
renfive undertaking. The crews of the ves
sels destined for these long voyage, are in
the best health ; and during three years,
that mod of them have been at fca 011 dif
ferent expeditions, not afingie man has di
ed of the scurvy, which is so frequently fa
tal in voyages to the remote weflern re
gions. The officers ofevery grade have re
ceived signal marks offavourfrom the king,
presents, pensions, and honours in abun
dance. It is now fincerety hoped that Spain
will at length deviate'from that line of
policy, (lo long obft ived by her) not to tub
hfh the dijcoveries made in her nautical exfeciitiens
and that voyages undertaken upon so pm
lofophical a plan may not fail of their de
served uccefs ; but may add some valuable
pages to the boooic of human science and
ihe knowledge already attained. At an)
rate, it is to be hoped that the lot cf theft
navigators w ill be more fortunate than that
of M. de la Pejroufe.
P A st i s, jtify 3®.
i he latefefiion of li e American Congrefe,
at Philadelphia,affords/atter for a variety of
interefiing refieflions. f torn the accounts we
have received of their proceedings, no (mail
part of their time has been taken up in fixing
a new mode of repiefentation, according to the
Lift census of the inhabitants of (he United States.
1 he plan proposed on this occasion would
have been adopted by the House of Reprefenta
tiies, but the Senate proposed an amendment
favourable to the lntereils ot a majority of their
body, and contrary ro the letter as well as to
the fpnitof the conftittitiotl. Ihe firmnefs
with which theyperfifted in the amendment, fi
nally obliged the H. of Rcprefent : itives to adopt
-t, and the bill, thus amended, was ordered t»
be passed intoa law, when the President thought
proper !o refufe giving it his atfent. This was
the tirft time the fupieine magiflrate of theUni.
ted States had madeufc of the prerogative gran
ted him by the conilituiion. His condu£t in
this inliance was very generally approved, as the
: bill, thus amended, was, bevond ail doubt, ex
tremely odious to the people in general. The
House of Reprelentatives immediately ordered
another bill to be drawn up, which having re
ceived the ailentol the Senate, was functioned by
the President. By this law the number of re
prelentatives in the next Congress is rated at one
member for every thirty three thoufaiid inhabi
tants, which from the tariff of enumeration will
fix the number to one hundred and five mem
beis. rite spirit that governs the two houses
was fully mnnifeflcd of Tate on occasion of a bill
for the Driking a national coin. The Senate
had determined, that besides the amis of the
United States, the coin ihould be imprelied ,
with the President's head, wi'h hisnam® inferibed
ai d the date of his piefideney. This para
graph of the bill w:>s warmly attacked in the
House of Reprelentatives. The mofl popu
lar members dcclaied, that it was the design of
the Senate to bimg the people gradually and in
fenfibiy under a monarchical government ; and
! piopofed to fublhtute, inflead of the head, a si
.' jjure. emblematical oflibettv: the head ofthcPre
-11 dent on me com they confidercd as a dangerous
precedent, in regard io the futuic firfi magistrates
. of ihe commonwealth. The amendment they
proposed was accordingly adopted by a majoiity
. ot one ihiid of the house. The senate howe
ver, perfiflcd in their fiifl resolution ; the bill was
■ sent back again by the House of Representatives,
j and at length their amendment adopted by the
; Senate.— 1 his temper of the House of Repre
' inanifefiecl itlelf in a similar manner
| in ar. almofl unanimous resolve on the 4th of
Apiil. The public were much agitated at the
defeat of the American army on the Ohio: A
member ro!e and demanded that an executive
enquiry thorild be made into the causes ofthcdefcaU
1 his motion was rejcCted by a great majority,
and one was adopted mOead thereof, to appoint
I a Committee to pur:iu: the enquiry: This was
j the firfl time that iuch a right, flipulated by the
' conllitution for the Hbiife of Reprelentatives,
i was exercift d thereby.—lt'is observable, from
■an impartial view of American Congrefiional
proceedings, that as the Representative chamber
,of their legiflatute becomes more and more de
( mcciatic, the Senate is fortifying itfelf in cer
tain principles, which the very impeifefi analo
-1 gv between its organization and that of ihe Brit
llh house 01 lords has rendered them fond of
adopting. iNO.'wiihilanding the repeated remon
; llrances of an enlightened public, and the urgent
j rtquifitions of the no'; important Dates in the
j union, they fectn fully determined not to ad
| nut ihe public to attend at their deliberations,
and 10 keep them as private as ever. Such an
; unpopular peiieverance gives us, i:i France, a
hij,h Kiea ofihe fun nels of, the*ffenate, but nou
rilher, in secret, among their conffiiuent?, a spirit
i of ditgiift— which adds ni w ffrength to the House
of Representatives; and in times of tempefl and
j trouble, it luchthere fiit'iild be, will no doubt
I terminate fatally for the S; nators. The condtift
I of ihe Ameiican Senate, in these various circum
! fiances of things, cannot then but afford cause
for profound reflexion on this fide of the Atlantic.
In iheir conduct worn ay fee how strong is the.
tendency in mankind to abuse their delegated
poweis—we mav even fee how far dange'ious
the inihtution o! these two houses is to the cause
of liberty; particu'ailyin a country where (he
seemed to have fixed herfelf upon' a basis that
would defy the ravages of time and be proof to
the machinations of intrigue-.; where the natural
equality of man would not be obfeured by fan
taflieal diflinftions of birth, or others of a like
kind, which altnolt every where separate man
Trom man : and where, in one word, the organi
lation of both houles ihould havebeen combined
with every precaution that human ingenuity
could devile, to fbun ihe dangers and prcfcrve
ihe advantages of a republican iyftemof legislati
on. What an example is this i and how much
is it to be willed that this lesson may tend to set
those men a thinking who live in a country
where inveterate prejudice has formed debasing
diflinttions between tellow citizens. If ibu
Ipirit be not checked, the two American bodies
ot !egil:a:ion will inevitably be transformed in
-0 an upper houle ot privileged characters, and a
lower one ot iubfidtal auxiliaries.
[Gazette ie France.
It is with great p!-tft;re we obfervr
:hat nleful knowledge is exten
ding it.elf gracTnully over the universe."
till) observation we apply to a propofiti
u lately made to the American Congref':,
io eltablilii a uniformity of weights and
meafiires throughout the United States.
1 hey are proceeding upon an idea ex
.ctlv liinilar 10 what has been broached inF.-ance, andth.'' of wluch is only
deferred, to a more proper opportunity.
| Gaztitt de France. ]
Aug- 16 —M. Charles Lameth, who is
arretted at Biuntiue, in Normandiy, his
brother Alexander Barnave, and ail the Mi
liifters of the ill of November, were im
peached l\ft night in the Afiembly. By the
ministers of the i!t of November are meant
Du Port, du Tertre, Duportail, Montnio
rin, See.
The king has already spent in advance
two years of the civil lift. Bankers fen!
him the money on the security of the public
grant.
It appeared that the court party were a
ware of the designs intended to be execut
ed by the Jacob':. i faflion, on the night be
tween the 9th and 10th, and were counter
plotting to defeat their intentions.
The queen and prince royal accompaniee
the king in the review of the troops on the
morning of the 10th, M. de Vromani ii
was proved, was at the head of the plot.
He had affiiret! himfelf of ico chosen men.
who could each answer for five, who agait
could each answer lor ten, M. Dochat
ciet (not Achilles; was appointed comman
der, and they name as men who were tc
serve under him, M. Puyfegcr, the old Ma
rechal de M li'ly, M. M. de Poix, D A'.fry,
father and fun, Milforr, D' Offonville
Tourzel, Cham >cencv, Clermont Totmer
re, Pout L' Abbe, D' Aertirgcry, de Brige
Fleurien, Sa'vere, Adrien Duport, S:c
They were all ordered to be in the Tliuil
leries on the famous night, between tht
ninth and tenrh, and a connterfign was gi
ven to the leaders.
The following order was given on the
morning of the 10th.
" The colonel of the 29th division of th<
Gendarmerie, w>H attack the column (o
the citizens) in the rear. He will divick
them in ail pofiible directions—and thei
charge them. The fir ft cannon (hot vvil
be fired in the ThuiiSenes. The batt.fioi
of the Natoire will join the attack. Tlk
colonel of the 59th division -Will concer:
measures with the commandant of that bat
talion."
. ■. —.. ....»«.
GEORGETOWN, pa. 13. '■
The public sale of lots "::j the city 0
WafhingDoi. commenced lafl Monday am
ended on Thnrfday. Tlie sale weiint' -v
Hand, turned ont hrgfdy fatisfaoiory to ;'i<
commiflionefs,and alLthoie itiim -diatelf i 1
terefled.in the prog: et's of the city; t
made by single !o" , <vc are informed, ave
raged ninety 1 me odd pounds 'those i
square-;, nearly feventy-tive pounds so:
each lot. Several private companies havi
made offers to the coniniiilioners for man;
hundred lots each, and on terms to cvinc.
their cunfkk-iice in-the-ropid growth of til:
city ; but whether any o these offers havi
been, or will be accepted, we have not bee.
able to learn. It is urged by some, that i'
would be better policy and more likely tc
afford that fatisfa&ion and justice due tc
the citizens of.ever,y.part of the union, wht
all have a common interest in this the't
metropolis, for the cominiilioners them
selves to eltsblilh winces for the sale of loir
in the different large towns in America, let
the accommodation of fncii as cannot con
veniently attend the puolic fides -here, ra
ther than fuffer it to be done by private in
dividuals; on the other hand it is itrongl)
contended, that it ought Co be the objec;
of the commifiiofters to intereit largely a
many powerful ind'victuals as pofiible, ir
the different Hates, in the fate of the city
a: the ms t likely means to infnre i" im
mediate r.ic —An arguii'sn: in which there
would have been real weight, if the folemi:
aS of gov eminent, a. liable as the govern
ment Itfelf, liiid not piactei the city in the
very centre of the United State : , on the
head navigation of one of the finelt river
in the world, affording with the many infe
rior rivers which dilchit - ge their rich-."- intr
it, an inland navigation now nearly com
plete, of at lead <co mile:, through coun
tries as fertile as.any in America ■, the pro
duce of whicii, even in the ihort period oi
two year--, null be brought to thi c'-y for
exportation— advantages certainly futf'.ci
ent. v ithout other aid, to insure to it ev,e
ry thing its warmed: friends can will) it.
The corner-done of: 'ieprclideiu's ;,o»K
is to belaid this day at 12 o'clock, and the
greater pari of the marerials being already
on the (pot ; this edifice will be finiflied a.
expeditionfiy as the requisite aueution tc
the security of the walls, in a building ol
fnch magnitude, \\ ill permit.
Fir the National Gazette.
" FACTS SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS
IT isa_/ac7, that the more immediate objefl of
the people in veiling the Fedeial Govern
ment with adequate powers, was the rescue of
cur trade ftom its foreign trammels.
It is a fcR, that those powers have produced
ro measures apparently designed oraflualiy ten
ding to that object.
It is a faEl, that the unrcual reflriflions of the
nation that reaps the greatefl harvell from our
trade, aie Hill in vigorous operation.
Itis.a Jafl, that tbe rxrfuftve regulations in
her [Gre at Britain's! Well-India trade, fidl tii
mmj-h over our obfrquisus oour.cils.
It is a Jail, that the navigation-laws of an
allied nation, who commenced in the kindest
difpofiiions towards this country, have been nar
rowed into a mod injurious fyilem, in conle
qucnce of the impolitic mealures adopted, o
the politic measures omitted, by Congrels.
It is a fact) that no compensating change for
the bette' is seen in agieater recipiocity and
freedom of our trade elsewhere.
It is a faEl, in our interior oecotlomy, that it
is a declared cp<tiicn> that kt the pref«nt debt (a
mounting to levenly millions, and suppOrted by
i 111 polls and excises) is a naliovolbltjjing."
It is a fa£l< that the principal meaiures of tile
government have been planned, under the influ
ence of that malign opinion.
It is afaEl y that iminenfe wealth has been ac
cumulated into few hands; and that public
m esfurrs have favoured that accumulation.
It is a fafi, that public money appropri
ated to the linking oi the debt, has been laid out,
lot so as mo(l to link the debt, but so as to fuc
:our gamblers in the funds, who bad made from
>oo to Bco percent on theircnpitals.
It is a ja£l> that the bank lazuhzs given a boutv
:y oifour or f.t/g millions of dollars to men, ir
?reac part, of the fame. description.
It is zjaflf that a-fhare ot this bounty wen 1
mtiiediaLely into the pockets of the very men,
noO aSiive and forward in granting it.
Th"fe. Mr. jFrtneau, thef" are killing faßsf—
lot calumniating nnfreprefentations, nor darl<
tirmifes, nor presumptive ciicumliances- —the)
ire FACTS, TeVere, ihibbbrq, notorious rafts.
■ bey speak, louder than wo»ds, <• baleful fatali
y of foine (ort on the foreign policy of she nati
)aal It riflature. They speak an alarming ef
ort within towards a monic-d aiitlocracy, and a
government by artifice and influence. They
peak toev-ry part of the union—to the north,
md to the south, to the east, and to the weli—
othe towns, and to the country. They speak
o every citizen who feels for the dignity of his
ountiy, the rapublicanifm oi the constitution,
he purity of the government, the freedom of
lofteiitv, the happineisand rights ofman.
CAMILLUS.
Plulad. 061. lS th. 1792-
PHILADELPHIA.
October 20.
We hear from Newark (N. J.) that on
Friday the 12th inftanc. Nicholas Low. Elq.
•v.is chosen governor of the national tnanu
-afttiring society ; and that John Bayard,
• '.fq. was chosen deputy governor of the
aid society.
"ATreafnrv P.iper, as remarkable for
the fugacitv as for the novelty of its difcci
. eries, has discovered that a national debt is
a tratrmal ben Jit, and that the taxes imposed
to pay the inrerelt, bearing equally upon all,
year in reality upon none. What may noc a
iead of filth acumen discover, if it but
meet with proper treafnry encourage
ment 1"
A Virginia paper mentions ati etftraor
linary inilaneepf longevity in aperfon now
iving in Prince Kdvvard county, 111 that
!late. Mis name is John Hollow:", who
was born iii the year 16:6, confeqliehtly
now 12? years of age. He i? laid to enjoy
jrood health and fpiritp, and a remarkably
cheerful temper. IT-mode of living ha
nothing lingular in it. eXccpt that hi
often drinks freely of spirit* and is very
fond of sweets particularly honey. He
lately loft a wife, near one hundred years
of age, whom l:o married, a widow. In his
leventietli } ear, u.iptho' child!ef before,
bore him a son within one year after their
marriage. Old fur. Holloway cau now,
without fat'gne, walk twelve miles a day,
and from all appearance may yet fir IVve
ra i years bid flejiance to the fey the of time.
The hon. Jcl.x Steele, one of the Repre
sentatives in Congress from tiie flat' oi
North-Carolina has declined serving, it' re
elected, in the next reprrfentation.
The fiuiation of France (fays a Bolton
print) furmfhes an excellent lellon for this
country. Though the high monarchical
and ariftocratkal men are endeavouring to
undervalue a republican government, yet
the diftrelles ofl-r,ance evidently (how that
this is the moil substantial system to secure
peace and tranquility to a nation. Meii op
poft d to the republican principles, draw
their conclulkxM from the prefem fttate ol
that country; but we fiionld consider that
the high meafnrei pursued by the king and
nobles under their former government,
drove the people to their present Kate of
defperatio:). The lellon fur the Americans
is, to support their conftjtutibn, by adhe
ring to its fundamental principle.', and
choose such rulers as will attend so far to
the interelts of their con'tituenis, as not to
lay burdenfonic taxes 011 them for the pur
pole of maintaining tbt'r public officers in
opulence, and paying them unreasonable
compensations.
The following paragraph appears in the
Bolton Apollo oftlr? j'2th isiiitanc. ''By Cap,
Aigre who is arrived at Kennebeck in
thirty days from Liverpool, we are ;i.;«rm
ed, tint accounts hat! Leen received from
France, just prior to hi- fa'-ling, that the
king of the French wa beheacV d."
We feel for the fit l .' ition of our country
(fays a letter from S. Carolina) in finding
our frontiers infiiltcd and our citizens mur
dered by a savage b-mditti, whole existence
would at oncc be annihilated, were rot oil!
bands, in a manner tied from acting again!]
them with tile necessary vigour. Twelve
hundred men, under the molt experienced
officers would inftanriy inarch into the
midlf of their territory, and lay all waste,
were the proper authority once received
for the purpose."
[ExtraSs cj Utters from S'ew-Jerfcy 061. Igti.'
" Oii tiie ioth of May last the wife o.
Mr. Griggs, of Mjddlefex county, New-
Jersey, was delivered <f 3 children ; two
iemaies and a male—l have seen them and
think they are as fine children as I have ge
nerally observed of the fume age. when
only one at a birth
" Died, on Wednesday the 3d Inft. Wil
liam Burnet, Esq. of Middlesex county.
Xew-Jerfey, a bachelor, upwards of 80
years of age. who hath left an eilate, as is
g■ -lerally believed, of more than thirty
tlioufand pounds—he died intestate, and had
not any person nearly related to hiin in this
country and probably not in Europe, as the
whole family removed together to Ameri
ca, being originally from Scotland.
" Notwithstanding the above circumffanc
es, he hath lived penurioufly in a very re
tired manner for a number of years, was
very much conversant in pecuniary af
fairs, and loaned out money the very week
he died ; he will be considerably miffed in
the adjacent parts as he frequently put out
money to persons in abject distress ; and was
not devo'»;l of trtie companion, but iiirened
ro and ailiiled those in real distress, which
is not very frequently tiie cafe with per
sons similarly circumstanced—yet he had
frequently fufta'med losses by his kindness,
notwithstanding which he did not become
callous and fteeied against human wretch
edness."
On the Bth of October arrived at New-
York, in 22 days from Aux-Cayes, the
(loop Friencfhip, capt. Reeves, by whom
we arc informed, that «,fiairs are at present
in a liate of tranquility. The whites were
under the neceftity of giving freedom to 2
chiefs and 8:0 negroes without the town,
and to 200 negroes within, but would not
give them the coffee land they demanded.
A chief, with about 200 negroes would
not accept freedom without land, and
have retired to the mountains. The plan
ters were to take poffdflon of what settle
ments remained undeftroyed the day the
Friendship failed.
On the 1 ith inft the Honfe of Re pre,
Icntatives of Virginia unanimously relolran
to intrust the delegates from that cotfi
monwealth to the Senate of the Unitfcd
States, to life their interest and excrtions\o
have the doors of that honorable body
jpened to the citizens of the Union.
A letter from Calvett county, Mary
land, mentions " immense damage to have
been done to the tobacco and other pro
duce in that county and St. Mary's,
the beginning of October instant ; nea;
Line tliird of the tobacco in Anne Arundlc
county is e'eftroyed. There never was fc
gloomy a profpeft for the planters. Great
damage is aliodone by the premature frofli
in Montgomery county, and general!;,
aver the Hate."
Dr. Rair.fay ha 1 ; publifhecl propofais, ir
England, for a History of the Americar
Revolution. Cent.'
ExtraS of a letter from an jEngl'tfn gtntlemat\
at the Hague, dnte jum 5.
" In making a tour of tome weeks thro
that part of the Ptuffian territory whiff
is contiguous to the frontiers of the Re
public, I have had r.ll opportunity to jtic'g(
jf the sentiments of the people, and tht
[pint which at present prevails 111 thi
:ountry.
•' The French conftituticn is in genera
regarded With a favourable eye at C'eves
it Wc/cl, at Creveld, &c. nor are the in
Habitants at pains to conceal their partiality
At the very raoment that a regiment o
KjuTars entered, as was fnid, for the arnn
ijf Brabant, was paflfnp through Creveld
I was affurcd at a Table de H' t:, of mor<
than 20 covers, that these preparation;
were merely for the fake of form ; thai
they would producc nothing, and that tht
king of Pru(fia would take care not to fa
crifice his own fu bjtfis for the gratifica
tionof Austria, who, in cafe of fucctf
would alone profit by the advantages c
the war.
We are favoured by a correfpcndent wit!:
the following totals of retuens of vot( s foi
reprefentath f s in Congress iVorn al' the
counties-in T'ernfy'vania, excepting A'W
hany, Miftiß, and Hunting oa.—Findiev
292(3, MuMenbeig 25345, Irwine 25149.
Hartley 21295, Heiltcr 25515. Kittera
*3308, Muhlenberg Armftiong
15395, Scott 15970,5- itzSmcms 166■'5,Mont
gomery 14895, Sitgreaves 14882, Gregg
14650, Smiley 140-?., Wynkoop 14412, Bar
clay 1 2333, Sergeant 13084, Bingham 18278,
Tliomfvn 1.2085.
* # * The far. ry the Editor of tin's paper
receives asTrr:illa:or for the Department of
State, being a perpetual theme of animad
ve;lion to fever?! Wri'ers so the Gazette
of the United States, who are endeavour
ing to inculcate an opinion that it is a
pension ; to prevent mifapprchenfions on
the fubje&, it may be proper to explain
what the duty of this translator is, for the
rccompenfe of 250 dollars a year.
His duty is to render a fair transition
of all letters of a public nature, state pa
pers, reports, and other documents trans
mitted in foreign languages to the Secreta
ry of State, and which, in the judgment
of the Secretary, are necessary to be trans
lated. If translation! (hould be
required from the German, Swcdifh, Spa
nish, or any other language of which the
dated tranilator may not have a compe
tent knowledge, or be wholly ignorant, it
is expected that he (hould procure a tranf
ation of such papers at his own expense,
uid, if necefiary, he mult have tiie tranf-
examined and aitefted.
When the public are informed that the
".bove services are required of lh« clerk of
'oreign languages in the department of
late, it may be left to every candid person
:o decide whether it isprobable that a falarv
of 250 dollars a year, on such term?, can
be supposed to influence the Editor in the
publication of the National Gazette The
National Gazette is supported, and only
supported, by upwards of thirteen hundred
fubfcriptior.s from honest and independent
citizens of the United States, through
every part of the Union—the end and
tendency of tliis paptr is to countenance
the great revolutiona! principles of Ame
rica—principles that the Editor will ad
here to and support, independent of all
infill'nee, in every pofftble circumftnnce
and situation, and for the diflemination of
which, or any abuse of which, he considers
aimfelf refponfibie to the public, to whose
republican intereils be is forever devoted.
The Editor of the National Gazette*
/ NEW-YORK, OSober 13.
i.Xtrattof a letter from a gentleman in
Philadelphia, to his correfpondcnt in
New-York.
" Doctor Barton wii! deliver a course
}f lectures on the Materia Medica this
winter, which he intends to eoimcft with
Botany, and at the fame time ;:dd such
.ollateral information as will render it not
only agreeable, entertaining and exten
iive!y ufefui, but totaliy different from tiis
insipid, dry, and harsh maimer, in which it
is at preftnt taught.
The Undents of medicine who resort
:o Philadelphia, and attend the prefeitt
piofefTor of the Materia Medica, in ex
pectation of becoming acquainted with
Lhe virtues of tiie indigenous plants of
our country are generally disappointed,
»nd may, like a Scotch flui'ent at Edin
burgh. who having paid the profeflor,
uid lefi the university as ignorant as he
"me there, excl.rm, " the De'il take him;
lie is got more from me than ever I got
r totn him."
" Botany is too much neglected by the
pvaftitioners, as well as by the ftudsnts of
phyflc, hence the many egregious blunders
which dcfcrvediy expofc them to the ridi
-ire of tiie votaries of this beautiful sci
ence.
" I have heard of a phyficitn and a
profefTor too, who allied in public < omp?.-
liy, to what class in Botany the Heflian
ily belongs ; and I have read of another
who wrote a learned differfatioa on the
virtues of the plant called Piffellou Bar
badenfi.;, parbadoes tar
" If we mean to avoid such fhameful
ar.d difgraceful blunders, let us cultivate
Botany. If we do not mean to enter in
to the depths of the science, let us imbibe
a tincture of it. Let us remember the
millions of acres of land in our own coun
try, which as yet have never been marked
by the ieet of the Botanifl. Let us turn
our eyes to the vveftern country, and think
ot the variety of medicinal plants, which
bloom on the bar.ksof the M nongnhela,
the Aiicgany, the Ohio, the Miami, an<i
t ie Wabafh. and then ailc ourieives, i»
Botany a useless Science ?
" Such oi the fltulc ts of medicine as
mean to attend the lectori s on the Materia
Medica, • I find it to their advantage to
attend Dr. Barton^-Tobe fare llw-Doc
tor is not s proftffor, but let the levers of
Icience remember two thing s—that science
is better than a diploma, and that thtCowl
dees not tr;vke tie Monk."
VA statement of Jome Objections to the AdmWiJlrs
ticn of the Federal Government.
(From tie Gametic (f the United
[Continued tium our last and concluded. J
favc the riter» in the Gazette ol tht
United Stares, the trouble of mifunder
fta tiding me, I wlli in the moil explicit mannej
explain what I jo, and what 1 do not object to, ii
rnc funding ly ft em ; I wiU begin with the nega
tive part of my declaration because chat will re
quire the f ewe ft words.
jft. 1 do not object to the payment of the just
public debts, and in a manner fully adequate tc
the contract, merit or Baiter, out of which the
debts originally grew.
2d. i da not objeCt to the mode of raising the
public revenue by an imp >ft on imported goods.
1 only wiih that the import: might be confined tc
imported luxuries, or luch articles as are mofth
used by the rich, and that the confuinptions ol
the poor may be free of burden as far as may wc.
be, contiftent with the ends and uses of the tax.—
Indeed 1 don't know but 1 claim that mode of re
venue as my original thought or invention, whicl
1 publiihed and explained in my sixth efiay on frci
trade and finance in 1753, long before any parti'
cular mode of general revenue was difculTed, 0
even proposed in Congress, which ever came to mj
knowledge.
3d. 1 do not ©bjeCt to the institution of banks
but think the bank of the United States an in
fringement of the publicfaith plighted to the ban!
of North America, and an ungrateful retributioi
for tke great merit and exertions of that bank tc
the salvation of our country in the time ol it
greatcft danger and distress.
4th. I now come to the positive part of my ob
jedtions to the funding system. I objeCt to th«
*11 ode of tailing a revenue by an excise on tithe:
the produce or manufactures of the country—thi
excifc on home uiftilieries includes bothj the labo
is that of our own people, and the raw material
are all, except foreign moiailes, the produce of thi
country ; I,object to this duty, ift, because thi
nature of its collection requires an authority in th<
excise officer to enter the domains ot every indivi
dual, infpedt his private business and concerns
and even frarch his mod retired apavtments, bee
rooms and clcfets—and ad, becaule the colleCtior
is not only thus irritating, but is alio very expen
sive ; I am told that the collection of the prefeni
excise coits about 12 per cent, besides all tin
wrangles about it, which are in themselves ever
expeniive as well as pernicious; 3d, because the
duty is alrn'oft wholly paid by the poor, efpec;all>
by tie frontier people who are a ufelul set of men,
help co people, cultivate and defend the country,
but from their fiiuation neceflarily have a hardet
lot than the more interior inhabitants, and 1 think
it cruel to begrudge them a little whisky of their
own distilling to comfort their hearts under all
their trials and hardfhi|»s # or to diminish their en
joyment by adding expence and other odious cir
cumitstiTCes thereto. 15ut my greatest objection is
more to the difpcf.il of the money, when it is col
lected, than to the existing mode of aflefling 01
collecting it—the money when colleCted from the
labors ot the people, is given by the funding iyf
tern, not to" the men who criminally earned it, no
to the men to whom th t public faith was plighted
over and over again, not to men who contribut
ing theirJulflanceand fer vices, saved cur country,
laved us all in the time ©f deepeit d'ftrefs—but by
this fatal system a title is given and payments ac
tually made of an immense treasure—the dear
earnings of the forementioned patriots, not to them,
I fay, but to a parcel of speculators who never
earned a fliilling of it, or paid any adequate com•
penfation for it, or even set up any kind of title
to it, grounded either on their merit, earnings, Jer
vices, or any purchaie for valuable confederations
paid, but they cla » and receive it under a most
extravagant coriiru&ion off an old rule of law,
firaincd, - ndJit etched tar beyond every reason on
which the lav/ ever was and is now grounded.
The following is a plain statement of the faCts
which I rffer in the face ol all the world, and
challenge all your writers, and every body else to
deny or controvert them if they can.
lit. The public faith was pl ghted in most so
lemn manner to the original public creditor* toi
the payment of such supplies and services as the)
rendered to the public.
2d, In th« fettlementof their accounts the bal
lances due to them were adjusted, ascertained anc
recorded in the public books, where they ftant
open to infpedtion at this day.
3d, When their lefpective ballances becamc
due, they were no otherwifa paid than by depre
ciated certificates, worth at theircurrent exchange
about 2/6 in the pound, which ought to be debited
to their accounts, and the remaining ballances
■paid in good money ; for public bills or papei
credit are ever to be valued at their exchange, anc
jio more, and all nations uegociate them in thai
Way alone.
But, 4th, The funding system plights the pub*
lie faith for the payment of the whole origina
debt, to the holders of the certificates, most ol
which have been fold far a trifle by the origina,
holders, and are now found in the hands of pur.
chafers, who never earned the money or paid any
adequate confiderarion for it, but are entitled b)
this system to receive it all.
This, beiides injustice, ingratitude, and viola
tion of public faith plighted to the real creditors,
involves mifchicfs and brings on consequences ve
ry hurtful to the prosperity of the nation.
1. Payment to the real original creditors would
have been an a? 1 ofjuflice, and some reparation tc
many worthy citizen*, who have long luffered by
the public deficiency—would have animated theii
indujlry, and in very many inltances delivered
them from aCtual dependence for a support either
on abjefi servitude, or the charity of their neigh
bors } —whereas payment of the fame monies to
the (peculators, raifesafew men to sudden wealth,
which thev never earned, and which, as they arc
tjot qualified by habit or education to enjoy pro
perly, does them more harm thangood.
This, as far as it goes, accumulates the mone)
cf the country in a few ufeleis hands, and at the
fame time lessens that diffufive circulation which
wotfld animate the industry and increase the wealth
and happiness of the people in general through
the nation.
2* As Congress fat at New-York when the
funding system was yader dilcuflion, the specula-
Tors there and in the vicinity frjlcotcbcd the fc
cret of that magical logic—which was to tuu
>/6 into 20f. and diligently improved the precio 5
moment, and sent off large orders to the iouuiei' 1
itates tor buying immenle quantities of certifi
cates, tor the trifle which was then their current
value j and when they brought them to the north
ward, the funding fyitem made them all payable
:o the holders tliere—to that the northern peopl*
will receive all the caill tor them, whiM the bur-
Jen of raiting the money will press equally haid
on the fouthcrn as on the northern states.
This, in etfedt, will make the fjuthern ftatesin
a manner tributary to the people »t the northern
tales in a large turn of annual inter eft 5 and a:
nis must continue as long as the system lasts, 1'
uetomcs a serious matter, b.'g with consequence!
hurtful enough both to the unionoc to ihe loutheri
people, and obvious enough to render a prophetica
Jctail unnecefiary here.
3. As cur 6 per Cents and other funds are fei
at an higher interest than can be obtained for mo
ney loaned in Europe* Very gfeat purchase:
have been made by Europeans in onr tunds, anc
ihey have remitted vast turns ot money for thai
purpose, which has made money, and conlequ*nt
iy luxury, extremely plenty with us at present—
and this blejfedplenty of money is by some people
with great doubt aftigned as one of the bltjj'ed ef.
feCis of the funding fydem 5 that it is a njtura
ejjefi of that system, 1 readily admit j but as u
ilie blejj'cdnefs of it, we thall be better able tojudg;
a little while hence, when our country comes to b<
drained of its cath in vast sums, which must b;
lent cut of it [never to telu'n) to pay the year!]
ntereft of the immenle remittances which wi
now receive, together with that of our public so
reign loans*
This country has never yet experienced a drau
!>f its cath by exportation of it abroad, without ie
:eiving remittances of value either previous o
subsequent to the fending it away. Importation
}f goods from abroad, have sometimes exceede<
the refouices of the country, and madecath some
•vhat lcarce. But the tinal loss did not all re(
an the country—much afit fell on the foreigi
merchants, by the bankiuptcy ot their coriel
jondents here. We cannot yet well judge hov
jreat the blejj'ednefs of these efFe&s may be, but .
lave had one taste of them, which has quite cloy
:J my appetite, since which I hive not had a will
or a repetition of the bleliing. One thing w
enow by experience, that when sterling bills rit
ibove 75 per cent, it will be the interest, and 0
;ourfe the practice of people who have remittan
:cs to make to Europe, to fend away cath rathe
han bills, in which cafe the real money will go ou
if the country perhaps fafter than it now comes in
11 tine, if these fa&s and observations are tru
md well founded, they deserve the feriou attenti
mof every man.—lf otherwise, any man wh>
vill disprove them, will give me sincere pleature
ind relieve me from many painful anxious feel
ngs. ] f any one desires my true name, he fha!
iave it j I am not ashamed of it—but I believe
im fufficiently known by my old signature,"
A Citizen of Pbilade/phid•
Pi ices Current at Philadelphia.
[Dollars equal to 100 cent:.]
ASHES Pot per ton 90 Dols. to joo d.
Athes Pearl 137 — — 140.
iacon flitches per lb. 7 cents.
3acon ("boulders— 6 do.
>ces wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27•
..randy, Coniac, pergl. 1 dol. 20 c
jrandy, common, 1 dol.
Gutter, in kegs, per lb. 9 c. to 10.
eef, Boston, per barrel 7<i to Bd.
-—Country ditto 6d to 7J.
Joals, per bulliel, 20 c. to 22
Joffee, per lb. lS to 19 c.
Cotton, per lb. 26 c. to 40
uheefe, country, per lb. 8c to 10c.
Englith 1 yc.
Jiiocolate, per lb* 17c to 18c.
Jodfith, per cwt. 3d. 50c.
Cordage, American, per C*t. 7<l 67c. t0
Duck, Englilh No. j. per yd. 23c.
1 cent less for every number
■' ■ Kuril a, per bolt i id- 33c.
Dutch lail duck, lSd. to 20d.
Sail cloth, Boston No. 1. per yd. 30c.
Kiaxfeed, por bull). 75 t0 C *
Flax, per lb. ii to 12 c.
b'lour, fuperfine, per barrel, s<iol.
Common, 4 dols. W7 c.
Burr middlings, belt, perbrl. 4d.
Meal Indian 2 dols. 52 c.
Rye 2 dols. 40 c.
Ship ftuff, per cwt, So c. to t dol.
Gin, Holland, per cafe, 4 dols. 67 c.
Ginseng per lb. 20 c- to 24
Grain, barley, per buthel, 73 to See.
. — belt the lied, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per buthel, 40 c.
Jndiancorn, 50 c. Oats 35 c. pr. bufli.
Rye 47c, Wheat 93c.
Herrings, per barrel 3d.
Hoops, hogthcad, per M. Js<l.
——— Barrels, 7i to Bd.
Hams, per lb. 8 c. te 9
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67c.
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9 c. to 11
Indigo, Carolina, per lb. 1 dol. to 1 dol. 10 c.
Iron, bar, per ton, S2 dols. 67 c.
per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nail-rods per ton 96 dols.
P.g, per ton, 24 dols. to 26 dols. 67 c.
Sheet, per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
Leather, foal, per lb. 14c. to 17c. 20c.
Logwood per ton 24^.
Lard, hogs, per lb. 9 c. to 10
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
In pigs, — — 5 dols. 33 c. to 5 dols. 67 c.
Red, —. —- 6 dols. 40 c. to o dols. 67 c.
White, ——10 dols. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Mackerel, best, per bbl. Bd.
Madder, best, per lb. ifcc. to 20c.
Myrtle wax per lb. )6c*
Molaties, per gal. 44 c. to 50
iNails, Bd. iod. i2d and 20d. per lb. 10c.
Nutmegs, per lb. 7 to 8 dollars
Oil, Linseed, per gallon, 65 to 67 c.
■■ — Olive, S7C.
—————percale 2d. 50c.
— Sweet best in batkets, 12 bot. SJ.5 J.
- -30 flafks, in boxes lad 50c.
Spermaceti, per gal. 4%c.
Train to 27c.
Wink, 22c. to 24c.
Pepper, per )b. 30c*
Pimen;o, —— iS c. to 20c.
Porter per cask, 33c.
Porter, London, per dozen, 1 dol. 60 c«
American, do. j d. 4 c. to 1 d. 60 c»
Pitch, per barrel, idol. 73 c. to 2 dols.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, udoisto 11 d 33c
Lower County, do. 10 dots.
Carolina, do. 9 doli.
Raisins, Mufcatel'.a, per box 3d.
— --Jar do. per jar 2d. 50c*
-Sun do. per keg 9^.
Rice, per 112 lb. 2 dols. 50 c. to 2 dol. 67 c.
Rosin, per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 d 015.67 c.
Rum, Antigua, per gal'on, 1 dol.
Barbadoes, do. do. 33 c.
New-England, &c. 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. 7c.
Windward island, 86c.
Salmon, per bb'. 6d. 50c. to7d*
Scantling, heart, pei M. 23d. 33c.
'-Sap, Bd. to 8d 67c.
Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 2d. 33c. to 2d 67c.
2 feet, $d 33c. to 6
— 3 feet, drefied, 13d. to 13d.
alt, (Alluin) per bulh el, 24 to 27 c.
Cadiz,' 23 to 24 c.
Lisbon, ■ 25 to 27 c.
Liverpool, - 29 c.
Skins, Deer, in hair, per lb. 20 to 30 c.
Red, dittoi 26 to 33 c.
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
Sugar, Havanna, white, per lb. 17 to 18 c.
Brown, per lb. 11 to izc.
Muscovado, per cwt. 13 d. to 13 d.
Lump, per lb. 24 c.
Loaf, single refined, 26 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 c.
Tallow, refined, per lb. 9 c.
Tin, per box 13d. 33c. to 67c.
Tar, New-Jersey, 24 gal. to the brl. I dol.
Carolina, 32 gal. 1 dol. 33 c. to 1 dol. 67 c.
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. 67 c. to 2 dols*
Tea, Hyson, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
Hyson skin, 53 c. to 67
Soufhong, 50c. 1093
Congo, 43 c.to 50
Bohea, 31 c. to 33
Tobacco, James River, best. pet cwt. 3 dols. 60
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 3 dols. 33c.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 3 dols. 33 e.
C oloured Maryland, 5 33 to S d
D ark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, 2 dols. 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dols. 23 c.
Carolina, old, 3 dols. 33 c
Carolina, new, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 d >!»•
Wine, Madeira, per pipe, 176 dl. to 226 di. 67c.
Lisbon, 120 to 126
Teneriffe, per gal. 63.
Fayal, ; 5 2
Port, per pipe, 113dol. 33 c.
Sherry, per gal. 90 c. to id. 20c.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS,
OElsber, 1792.
D. H. Bar. ' Thcr. Wind. Wcath.
• Vednefday, 10. * 29.8' 47 jW.N.w Fair.
2 29.85 73 jW. do.
Yhurfday, u. 7 29.8$ 49 S. W. Fair.
c 29. 8 75 do. do.
Friday, 12. 7 29. 6. 60 S. £. Cloudy.
2 29. 4 69 do. Ram-
Saturday, 13. 7 29. 4 55 S.W. Rain.
2 29. 6 70 S.W. ftazty.
Sunday, 14. 7 29.82 50 W. Fair.
• 29.84 73 S.W. do.
Monday, 15. 7 29. 7 63 S.W. Rain.
)Bober 2 29. 62] 67 do. Cloudy k
fuefday, 16. 7 29.951 50 I S.W. Fair.
2 29.941 63 I W. do.
THOSE gentlemen that yet remain pofleffed
of fuofcription papers of Howell's large
Map, are hereby notified (as well also the public
Irj general) th*t no fubferiptions will be received
r>r accepted after the date hereof, and that they
be pleased to transmit the said papers to the sub-
Uriber as soon as fafe opportunity fnall serve. as
:he Maps which are now received will be deliver
ed at his own house in North Fifth-ftreet, Phila
delphia, READING HOWELL.
Oft. 15. 3t
TAKE NOTICE.
WHF.REASa mulatto mannamed LUKE,
the property of the fubf'cribcr living in
\ccomack county, Virginia, ran away from
lim on the firft day of September last, and was
aken up and committed to the gaol of Newcaf
le county, in the State of Delaware, on the 14th
lav of September, where he rertiain'd until the
Ith of this instant, OQofoer, when a Mr. Jones,
iho said he lived in Frederick Town, in the
ounty of Cecil, in Maryland, appeared andpeo
luced a Benjamin Fcrgufon, who made oath
hat he suspected the said slave to be a freeman,
lamed John Wright, who had failed with the
aid Fcrgufon in a schooner belonging to the said
)ones, and had committed a burglary on bo3td
nfherinjuly last, in consequence of which the
raid (lave was delivered by order of tliie lion.
David Finney, a supreme judge of the said fljte
;>f Delaware, to the said Jones, to take his trial
For the said supposed offence. As lam fully
:onvinced from the description of the said
(lave, given to me by the gaoler, that he is my
property, and that the laid Fergufonhas millaken
iiitn for Wright, I do hereby diretl the said Mr.
Jonts, and Fergufen, to return the iaid {lave to
the place from whence they took him, and to
inform me thereof, stherwife 1 shall proceed
according to law.
JOHN CROPPER. Jtin.
o£l. 16th. 2a.w.jw.
Manufactured and for Sale,
At No. li, Ntrth Sixth -Jlrect,
Fafliionuble Round Top and Fiat
B U T T O N S,
Warranted superior to any imported of
equal price.
Country Store-keepers supplied eicher in
small or large quantities. By
S. PO S T & Co.
N.B. Conklhel Buttons, Buckles, &c.
Oct. 17. cawtf
New-Tori and Philadelphia
STAGES,
AND
Bordenton, Burlington, and Trenton or
Lamberton
PACKETS.
THE proprietors of the New York and Phi
ladelphia Land and Water Scages, beg leave
to mention, that for the better accommodation of
:he passengers, they have removed their different
packet boats from their former stand, at the
Crooked Billet Wharf, to the wharf or dock im
mediately next below Ardh-ftieet j from whence
a convenient packet boat starts for New-York,
as usual', on every Sunday, Tuesday, Weanefday
and Thursday, and returns on every Tuefdav,
Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The pafiage to
be made either by the way of Bordenton or Bur
lington j eaoh place taken alternately.
Fare for patf'engers from Philadelphia to New-
York - - - 15s.
For goods do. do. per cwf. 6s.
Van Emburgh and M'Kean,
David Williamfon,
Proprietors c.f the line of New York and Pbiladtl•
pbia Jlagfi* by the rout of Bordenten*
Jacob Myers,
Amox Hutchin,
Nicholas Schenck,
Proprietors of the line of New Turk and Philadel
pbia stages% by tbt rout of Burlington.
Bordenton, Oft* 1.
For freight or pali'age apply to the matters ot»
board, or to
M'Kean and Van Emburgh;
Who have for faie at their store on faivl wharf,
imm?iitiH«i¥ next below Arch-street,
Ok Madeira, 1 Muscovado, 1
Teneriffe, and >WiniS. Loaf, and VSvgaHS
Mountain j Lump J
Jamaica Spirits, Molafles,
Antigua, 1 Coffee,
Montferat & >Rvm« Chocolate,
Newbury J Bohea Tea,
Rochetle Branay Burlington Pork,
in pipes, cases ar.d Hams,
demijohns, Floury
Gin in pipes and cases, Bar Iron, &c. ccc. &c.
Orders for Grain, Staves, Bills of Scantling, or
other Lumber, punctually attended to.
(£7* For freight or pafTage to Lamberton or
Trenton, apply at f<*id wharf to Thomas Afli
moore, William Douglafa, Joho Afhmoore of
Alexander Douglaft, (Mailers on board) or
above, to M'Kean & Van Emburgh.
Philadelphia, Odiober 6, 1792.
Terres a Vendre
Dans un fat's bxen peuple',—
S AVOIR, foixante cinq milie, irois cens, foix
ante et quatorze Acres y en une leal-* piece r
dans le canton le mieux peuple de la Caroline Me
ridi®sale, le Diftiid cle Ninety-Six, Ces terres
font fituees dans une contree agreable, et
ou les tlevres font inconnuesj a environ vijigt lieues
de Colombie, la Cupitale, et contigues ala v 1 He
de Cambiidge, ou il y a College, et Cour fupeTi"
eure. A environ douze Jieues, iJ y a bonne navi
gation jet il eft tres probable, que dans quelque
terns on rendra navigable Je Grand Saiude, riviere
qui arrofe les terres memes. Elles font agreab!e~
ment diverfifiees He coteaux et vallons charman*
propres ala culture du tabac, du coton, du maVt
et du petit grain 5 et dont une proportiv>n confider
ab!e fe peut aifement convertir en prairies fertiles,
il n'eft - peut-etre gueres pofiible de rencontrer une
pareille piece de terre a vendre dans auCun autre
desEtats Ur.is \ rt pour les conditions de l'achatj,
on les rendra trtis commodes.
S'informer a I'imprimerie de la Gazette Na
tionale. Sept. 5.
LANDS for SALE,
TN a well frilled Country. SIXTY-FIVE
_ THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
Seventy, four acres of land, in one
body, in the most populous part of the iVace of
Souih-Carolina, in ilrediftiift ofNinety-fix—lt
is fituat«d in a fine healthy c'lrai at",free from fever
& ague,about lixty miles from Columbia, the feat
of government. The land is contiguous to the
town of Cambridge, where are a luminary for the
inftru£lion of youth, and a superior law court. It
is at prelent within about thirty-five miles of good
navigation, w'uh a probability of having the river,
called the Great Saiuaa, that /tows along one fide
of the land, made navigable. The land is beautr
fully diverfi&td into swells and vales, and is per
fectly well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
corion, Indian core, and ftnall grain j a great
proportion of it may be made meadow ground-
Thee is nor, perhaps, such a body of land, focir
cumftanced, for tale in any other of the U; States.
The terms of paymentlwill be maue convenient to
the purchaser or pur«h&fc<b. Apply to the Printer.
Augull 29. lawtf
, ,"
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and SWA IN E,
AT THEIR OFFICE NO. 20$, KTG fl-STR SET,
Jf CA K FIFTH-STRUT,
FJU LAS E L PJII At