[Numb. 2 of Vol. II."}
[In our last, w.tit of room obliged us to
give a Kry brief (ketc'i of the late im
portant intelligence from France : For
the better fatisfa&ion of our readers we
in this day's paper convey them those
interesting advices more in detail coileft
ed from foreign pipers.]
THE Duke of Brunfwick, with very
little oppoTition, hns trade himfelf
master of Longwi. a ilrong place, well
provided according to some accounts, with
men, ammunition and provisions ; but ac
cording to others containing but a few
hundred troops.
The firft give it a garrison of 2636
men, who fall into the hands of the duke,
with 38 pieces of cannon, See- i£c. 415,000
wt. of ptnvder, and other ammunition in
propottion.
The general bombarded it for a (ho> t
time, it furrt-ndered, and the firing was
immediately commanded to cease.
The duke after the capture of thii
placc advanced towards Verdun, and fum
monedthe parrifon to surrender about th«
30th of August.
The summons is in the name of their
Imperial and Prufiian majeflies, and in it
the inhabitants are threatened with mili
tary execution if they dd not surrender,
and return to their allegiance. In cafe oi
compliancc they are prom;fed the protec
tion of the king of Prussia and the empe
ror.
A council of war was called to anfwei
the summons, and it was determined U
hold out to the last moment.
Upon the receipt of this intelligence in
Paris, on the 2d of September, the com
mifiioners of the community aflembled and
pafied a doctee to the following effect,
which was approved by the national affem
; *•
That the barriers te (hut, all lwfes.be
fcized for military ferviC-. all ftifpefted per
ions be disarm.'d, and all citizens dirtdted
to hold themselves in readiness to marcli
at the firft notice. The decree also invitee
them to meet at the Champ dc Mars, thai
60,000 men might be immediately raised
for the service of the country
Alarm guns \»ere fired, the barriers
shut, the Toe (in was founded, and the ge
neral alarm beaten. The Champ de Mar;
was presently filled, and the enrolment wai
proceeding rapidly.
At this time intelligence reachcd the
capital, that a body of 4000 French, de
tached by Dumourier to the afilftance o:
Verdun, had been defeated, and obligee
to retreat. The populace fufpedted trea
chery ; their rage rose to its greateO
height.
ll was suggested by some am'ong their
at imprudent for so powerful a body a:
60,000 men to quit the metropolis, leaving
the great number of suspicious persons
with which every placc oT confinement
overflowed, and the barbarous propofa
was made to put them all to death.
The people fiew to the convent of ths
Carmelites, and massacred about 13c
/ priests, who vere confined there, among
whom was the cardinal de Rouchefou
cald, formerly archbishop of Rouen.
i'rom this they hurried to the Abbaye,
where all those confined were put to death,
to the number of f orae hundreds. Among
the vidtims of the fury of the people.
Madame Tarvante, See. with
M. Montmorin, the ex-minister, and M,
13'Affry, were particularly mentioned.
The afiembly sent commiffionefs to pro
thefe persons, but without avail. Bui
two prfons confined in the Abbaye efca
ped, viz M. Sicc&rd, ths master of the
academy far inftrudting the deaf and the
dumb, who was saved by the interference
of a member of the national afTembly, ant
an old nian, whose grey hairs commanded
refceft.
From the pr sons the mob proceeded tc
♦he houses of fufpedted persons, and where
ever letters were found breathing a coun.
ter revolution spirit, the writers orowaers
met immediate death.
By P. FRENEAU: Publifked Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Qollars per annum *
S A T U R D A Y, November 3, 1792.
Great quantities of arms are said 'o hate
been found in these searches intended for
the emigrants and which were diftribured
among thafe who had inliiled in the mor
ning.
Couriers were sent oft to all the de
partments to spread the alarm.
Gn the 3d of September 20 priefU.
anbtious to elcape, presented themfeWes at
che barfierS but without passports; they wert
fufpeftedby the mob and loft their lives.
Some accounts Hate the slain on the 2c
and third as high -as 7000, and the mod
moderate at 4000*
tumult cohtinucd with violence un
til about twelve o'clock on the 3d of Sept.
The National Assembly, the public o!H
ces, treasury, during these difturbaaces
remained unviolated.
The temple, the present oi
the king, and queen, wu undisturbed, and
by order of the municipality doubly
guarded.
O
Our kft accounts mention the capture
of Verdun.
No other iwuption into France has beer
made beftdes that by the Duke of Brunf
wick. Landau and Saar Louis, support
ed by the army of M. Biron, keep' thf
Prince in awe, and Durnouriei
covers the North ; 10,000 men from Bi
ron's army have joined Killerman, arte
15,000 are to follow the Duke of Brunf
wick.
Owing to the imprudent Conduct of the
students of two Irish colleges established
at Fan's, the buildings tvere demolished or
the 2d, but the students favtd themfeives
by a timely flight.
The following offieer* are mentioned as
captureii with La Fayette* A. Lamethj
3e Launois, V. Maubourgh, C- Mau
bonrg, Lacoffloe, MefFae an J SoHherar,
two Romeuf,, Gouvion, B. de Peiz, their
f r-ants and 40 hotfes. They came fiom
Bouillon, fays the account, on pretence 01
reconnoitring, and were taken by the ad
vanced posts of Rochefort, August the
19th. No mention is made at his recap
ure ; that account may therefore be con
lidered as totally unfounded*
The national assembly have deputed
some of their members to encourage by
their example the workmen employed in
fortifying the metropolis.
Several persons convicted as counter
revohitionifts were executed at the placr
du Carousel the latter end of August.
The commiflioners appointed to infpei*
he civil lift and (late of the finance:, re
ported to the Assembly on the 22d 1!
llgufl, that the public treasury contaiued
a considerable sum, which, toge'hef vri'.L
che money lound iitfthe palace, whs di
rested to be lodged in the national bank,
About this time the commons arretted
the Venetian arabaffador and his suite, hi;
his passport being informal. He was in -
terrogated and his papers searched. No
thing was found to create suspicion.
This ambaflador, and his attendants,
arrived in England with Earl Gower jvft
before the lad vefTels failed.
The commons have presented the ee
brated Henrys Mazeres Latude, who
impiifoned 40 years by virtue of a lettre tie
< atcHet, with.the hand of the ftattte of
Louis XV, who signed the order for his
confinement
The Mslrchionrfs de Bouille and the
Duchess de Noailles escaped with difficul
ty from France and arrived in London, as
did also General Narboane.
M. La Fayette set out on the 30th
August from BrufTels for Luxembourg, b"'
order of the duke of Brunfwiek.
On the 28th of August some petition
ers appeared at the bar of the afTemJ .v,
with a St. Roche and his dog in filv r.
They complained of his fupinenefs in the
present emergency, and proposed to ren
der him us ful by converting him into
crowns. Applauded—the faint was fen;
to the mint.
The assembly fixed 21 at the limits of
minority.
A letter was received from the amhafia
dor to the Helvetic diet, Hating, that the
Swiss were highly ir.ctfnfod at the pro
ceeding* of the roth of August. The di
plomatic comm»tte« were directed to ex
amine whether of not the ambassador
fbould be ordered to come away, after de
daring the determination of France to
maintain her treaties with the Swiss.
Part of the garrtfo •. <j-f Lor.givi com
plained to the assembly of the treachery oi
their officers.
A decree puffed fequeftring the pof
(Vflions of the Auilrian clergy in France.
On the 31ft of August M. Belair, the
chief engineer for fortifying Paris, gave ir
'lis p'ari, of which the following arc tn<
outlines :
His entrenchfnents will commence jull
ibove St. Dennis, and stretch away tc
Nogent upon Maine. This will take in
ihe heights of Monmartre and Belleville
H" '-.-quire* 800 cannon. Nov the mi lit: rj
;ommittee can promise him atprefent only
boo ; the plan is therefore to leize all tlic
bronze ornaments and statues to fuppl-y
:he deficiency. From the palace of Ver
failles he takes off the lead for bullets and
:he iron for balls. In the neighbouring
•riilages the implements for fortifying are
o be fabricated—Paris can supply 30,000.
rhe Delvera who are now employed upon
:ne canal at Bourgogne, are to be brought
;o work at the •'ntrenchmenta.
Luckner is reinstated by the executive
:ouncil as generalissimo of the three fron
tier armies. Kellerman refufed the com
mand, and affirmed that if he served at all
t mull be under his old friend the mar
ital.
The assembly wdre informed, that dc
National guards with one piece of cannorv,
bad dispersed the rebels assembled in the
department of Vendre, after killing 15
and taking 24 Another affemblaj'e Was
also dispersed, by the fame guard, affiiled
oy the gendarmerie uilder M. BoiffarJ,
ifter killing 150 of the revolters and cap
turing 70. Among the killed several re
rra&ory priests were-found. Honorable
mention was made.
."Decreed, that the effe&s of ail those
:onvi<Sted of having been concerned in
xmnter-revolution plans, be confiscated.
Decreed, that marriage being only a
:tvil contrail, it may, like all other civil
:ontra£ls, be dissolved ; and confequentfy,
:hat divorces be allowed in France.
Mr. Septeuil, firft valet de chambre tc
:he king, was arrrfted about the lad ol
August or firft of September. The secret
"egifters of the eivil lift were found in his
poffeffiou, and receipts for large fumi
ranfmitted to M. d'Artois, Monsieur,
and, it is fa id, M. La Fayette and Bou
illc. The last is said to have received nc
less than 5.000,800 livres.
The assembly have confirmed the pro
vincial police of Paris, which was organ
ized on the xoth of August, and dellroys
the municipality.
On the 27th of August the Jacobir
club (00k the following oath ; " I promifc
vefore God and my country, that, where
ever I may be placed, I will exert my
whole force to pHrge the earth from the
pest of royalty."
The national assembly decreed on the
29th, that all foreigners, except those
who were members of the Jacobin club,
should lie detained as hoftagts, and in cafe
their nations declared war, to expose their
own countrymen to the firft fire. The
foreigners excepted, it is said, it was de
creed to fend into the enemies armies &i
deserters, to debauch, if possible, their
countrymen.
The provifionary executive of France
have expressed " their extreme regret at
the determination of the Britilh court, ir
recalling earl Gower, whom they alwavs
esteemed as the organ of the ncble and
generous sentiments of his nation towards
France, in her present fitnation. But in
deed, that regret (fay they) is, in forr.€
nveafurc, allayed, by his agaia affurip-g usj
f Total No. 106.]
that Great-Britain is io oofervt the strict
est neutrality, with regard to the internal
arrangements of the affairs of Prance. The
conncil observe that this determination is a
mcafure wifely rcfiefted upon, riling from
a principle to which the natioa
owe their present glory and prafperity :
" The wife refle&ion of a people who
firft shewed Europe the necessity of subjuga
ting kings themselves to the obedience cf
the law. In this awful and important
moment, they confide in (he jit (lice and
wifdorti of the British cabinet) ;nd depend
upon the declaration, when the national
contention is about to take place, which,
they doubt no', will fix ail parties in the
great cause of liberty and equality."
ProteftofM. La Fayette and the officers
who accompanied him, against the feist
ute of their persons on the neutral ter«
ritory —
The underwritten French citizens, sos»
ccd by an irrefifiable cortcorm.cc of cx
ihe glory of protediing, as they have hi.
:herto done, the liberty of their country,
lnable any longer to oppose the violations
of tli« constitution which the national will
iad established therein, declare, " That
hey cannot be considered as military ene
nies, since they have given up their pods
n the French army j and still left, as part
>f those of their countrynen wlmfe inte
•efts, lentiments and opinions, abfoiu ely
ippofiteto their's, have engaged them to
eague themselves with the powers at war
vith I'ranee : but as strangers, who clsmn
i free paflage, which the rights of nations
ecure to them, and which they only wiftt
0 make use of, to repair as speedily s pof
tble to a territory, the government of
vhich is not in an a&ual Hate of hcjftility
igainfi; thei- country."
This declaration, dated at Rochefort,
he 19th of Auguli, and ftgned by M. la
rayette and the officers who accompanied
iim, is considered as fufficient to deflroy
he calumny of those who describe that
general, and the officers attached to him,
enemies to their country, by carrying
>n a feciet eorrefpondence with he emi
grants and the powers who countenance
:nd support the emigration.
The duke of Briinfwickj now so much
1 topic of conversation, is in hi 57th
rear, which he will complete on the 9th of
D&obfr, if none of the mariy dangers
o which lie is exposed, prevents him. He
vas married to the lifter of his Britannic
najifty in the ye ir J764, when lie had an
nterview with the late earl of Chatham.
Great Spprehenftons are entertained
n France of hoftilitie?'being about to be
lommenced by the Spaniards.
We have received intelligence that the
<ing has given orders for purch. Hug all
he draw that can be fi*tnd between Bar*
;elona and Figueras, wh ch announces th?t
;argp bodies of cavalry must be on the
Frontiers. We are'infornied also from Ma*
laga, that orden have been sent to the in
habitants of Catalonia, to give an account
of the carts, carripgee, horie mules, &c.
which they can furnifh. Thirty-nine fail
of ships are lying teady in the harbourof
Barcelona, and a report is spread here that
their destination is to attack Marfeiiles,
CollioUres, or Antibes. It is exp»£led
that they will be joined by seventeen fail
from Portugal, and that they will immedi
ately proceed t-o sea, Wider the command
of MefTrs. Crillon Mahon, Vandreud, ard
A bcrt de Riorr.i.
The number of people who have been
killed is not yet known with any kind of
certainty, ter bcfides the prifiners,, many
wbo had fallen under the f'.'.fpicion of the
populace, were taken from thei-r own
houses and butchered in the flreets.
Madame de la Fayette had a very narrow
escape from being arrested. A courier
was sent t* several of the sea-ports to flop
her. She failed from Havre de Grace
only three hours before he arrived. Su«
is gone to Holland.TVL Bacliam, condemned on Monday to
have his head cutoff, was executed yelter
day morning.
The mayor has just publiflied a note,
intimating, that as lie must neceflarily de
vote as much of his time as possible to the
execution of plans for the public fafety, he
has for some time suspended giving audi
cnces.
Volunteers (till continue marching every
two or three hours, in bodies, for the fron
tiers ; and thoufanus of men, women, and
children are busily engaged at this moment
in digging entrenchments round Paris.
To counteract the plans of the duke of
Brunfwick, on his progress to Paris, it
has been proposed,
1. ''To arm all the French on this
fide Loire.
2. " To seize the high posts which
command the road through which the
Pruflians are to pass, to harrafs them in
front, flank, and rear.
3. " To burn every thing on theirroute
two days before their arrival, and to open
every where general asylums for the inha
bitants of the country who (hall be forced
to facrifice their dwellings, &c.
4. '* To order all the interior armies to
march and meet within twenty leagues of
Paris, so that when the Prussians advance,
they may be furroundedor. every fide, if not
to engage them in regular battle, at leaff
to harrafs them every where, in their fo
raging, their detached polls, their convoys,
and their patroles.
5. " To prevent the aristocrats from
joining the emigrant army, and for that
purpose to decree, that in every place they
fiiali e disarmed and detained in their
houses, with a guard at their post, or the
guard-house, if these gentlemen are a little
numerous
6. " In the mean time to encreafe the
armies fufficiently to enter Brabant, at
tack the Aullrians on the frontiers, and
attempt Coblentz, Treves, and Mayence."
Paris, Sep. 4.
The council general of the commons haj
published a resolution dire£fing the execution
of the decree for the deportation of the noujur
ing prietis.
A regifteris to be opened in each of the 4S
feflions, in which every priell, who refufes tc
take the oaths required by law, is to enter the
name and the place to which he wilhes to re
tire. A paflport is then to be delivered to
him, aniifhe has no money of his own, three
livres for every ten leagues he has to travel.
The infirm, and those of 60 years of age, are to
befenttothe Maifon de Port Royal. Such
of them as shall be found :n Paris eight days
•flter the publication of this order, to be impri
soned for ten years.
The measure of [hatting the gates of Paris,
onthe 2dinft. was taken .n pursuance of the
following decree of the community of Paris:
" To arms, citizens, to arms, The enemy
is at our gates.
" The procureur of the community having
announced the prefting dangers of the countiy,
the treasons with which we are menaced, and
the deifitute Rate of the town of Verdun, now
besieged by the enemy, who will probably in
eight days be mailers of it,
"The council-generaldecrees,
1." The barriers shall be immediately clo
sed.
2. " All horses fit to serve those who repaii
to the frontiers (hall be immediately seized.
3. " All the citizens shall hold themselves
ready to march upon the firft signal,
4. " AH citizens, who on account of their
age and infirmities, cannot march, shall depo
lit their arms with their fetlions, for the use
of those who fly to the frontiers.
5. "All fufpefled perlons, or thofeiwho,
fToin cowardice, shall refufe to march, ihail be
inllantly dilarmed.
6. "Twenty-four coramiffioners {hall go
immediately to the armies, to announce to
them this resolution, and shall traverse the
neighbouring departments, inviting the citizens
to unite themselves with their brothers of Paris,
and march together to the enemy.
7. " The military committee ihall be perma
nent ; it shall meet at the Commons House,
ill the hall formerly that of thequeen.
8. " The alarm guns shall be inllantly fired
and the general (hall be beat in all the fetlions,
to announce to the citizens the dangers of the
country. '
9. " The ntitienal aflembly and the provi
sional executive power shall be informed of
this decree.
10. " The members of the council general
Ihall repair immediately to their refpeclive
citizens ; shall announce the purposes of the
present decree ; (hall paint with energy to their
fellow citizens, the ardent danger of the coun
try, the Ireafons with which we are environed
or menaced ; they (hall represent with force,
that liberty is threatened, And the French terri
tory inva d; and (hewing that our letu nto
the mod ignominous (livery is the object Of our
enemies,they shall urge our dutv of burving
ourfeives in the ruins of our country, ana ofj
delivering up our cities only when they (hall be
heaps of cinders.
(Signed) HUGUENIN, President.
TALL I EN. Secretary Reg'rfler."
[The following communication was made
to Earl Gower (late English ambassador at
Paris) by his court, and from him to the
French ininifter for foreign affairs :J
My Lord,
IN Lurd Grenville's obfence, I have re
ceived and laid before the king, your last
dispatches.
His majesty has been very deeply afflitted
in receiving the information of the extent
and the deplorable confeijuences of the
troubles which have happened in Paris ; a
well on account of his personal attachment
to their raoft Christian Majesties, and the
interest that he has always taken in their
welfare, as for the earned: defirehe has for
the tranquility and profperitv of a kingdom
with which he is on terms of friendfiiip.
As it appears, in the present {fate of af
fairs, the exercise of the executive power
has been withdrawn from his mod: Christian
Majesty, the credentials which have hither
to been made use of by your excellency,
CAN NO LONGER BE VALID. His
majesty is therefore of opinion, that you
ought not to remain any longer in Paris, as
well on this account, as becatife this step
appears to him the molt comforrnabie to
the principles of neutrality which he has
hitherto observed. His majeftv's plcafure
therefore is, that you should quit that city,
and return to England, as soon as you lh«!i
have been able to procure the neceflary
passports for that purpose.
In all the conversations that you may
have occasion to hold, before your depar
ture, you will take care to express yourfelf
conformable to the sentiments herein conv
municateCi to you, and you will take espe
cial care not to neglect any opportunity e
declaring, that at the fame time his.majesty
means to observe the principles of neutra-,
lity, in every- thing which regards the ar
rangement Of the internal government of
France. He does not conceive that he de
parts from these principles in manifefting,
by every poflible means in his power, his
solicitude for the personal situation of their
most Christian Majesties, and the royal fa
mily. He mofl: earnestly hopes, that his
wishes in that refpe£t will not be deceived ;
that the royal family will be preserved from
every act of violence ; the commiffioti of
which would not fail to excite sentiments
of universal indignation throughout all Eu-
HENRY DUNDAS.
Aug. 17, 1792.
Answer to the above by the French mini
fter for foreign affairs :
The nuderfigned, ininifter for foreign af
fairs, has loft no titlrfe in con-imunicating to
the provisional executive council, the letter
communicated to him by his excellency
Earl Gower, ambassador extraordinary
from his Britannic rnajefty.
The council has seen, with regret that
the British cabinet has Vefolved to recall an
ambassador, whose presence attested the fa
vorable disposition of a free and generous
nation, and who has never been the organ
but of friendly expreflions and ofbenevo
lent sentiments. If any thing can abate
this regret, it is the renewed aflinance of
neutrality made 011 the part of England to
the French nation.
This assurance ffeems to be the result of
an intention wifely considered and formal
ly exprelfed by his Britannic majesty, not to
meddle with the interior arrangements of the affairs
if France. We are not surprised at such a
declaration made by an enlightened and
high fpiriled nation, who have been the
firit to acknow ledge and establish the prin
ciple of national sovereignty ; who, by fub
ftitnting the empire of the laws,*he expres
sed will of all, to tile arbitrary caprices of
a few individuals, have been the firft to
furnifli the example of fnbjefting kings
themfeives to this salutary yoke ; and who,
finally, have not thought too dearly pur
chased, by long convullions, and violent
ftonns, that liberty, which has been pro
ductive of so much glory and prosperity.
This principle of the unalienable sove
reignty of the people is going to be display
ed, in a striking manner, in the national
convention, the convocation of which has
been decreed by the legislative body, and
which will, 110 doubt, fix all parties and all
interests. The French nation has good
grounds to hope that the British cabinet
will not. at this decisive moment, depart
from that juflice, moderation and impar
tiality, which it has hitherto manifefted.
Full of this confidence, which rests on
facts, the underligned renews to his excel
lency Earl Gower, in the name of the pro
visional executive council, the assurance
which he has had the honor to give him,
viva voce, that whatever relates to the com
merce between the two nations, and all af
fairs in general, shall be carried on, oil the
part of the French government, with the
fame jnftice and fidelity. The council flat
ter themfeives that there will be a full re
ciprocity on the part of the British govern
ment. and that nothing will interrupt the
goud understanding which subsists between
the two nations.
The minister for foreign affair?,
LEBRUN.
Brvjfcls, Aug. 24. M. la Fayette was
taken in the following manner On the
19th, at ten in the evening, a patrole con
filling offeven men, belonging to the ad
vanced polls qfißochefort, in Ardennes, : in
the Bifhoprick ofLeige, where M. Har
noncourt Commands, met with a number
of French officers, followed by about 20
domeftjes. They were 011 the point of
being fired at by the piquCt guard, but
• instantly one the quitted his
company, and was conducted to M. Har
noncourt.
" This gentleman was M. Bureau de
Pnfy, officer of engineers. He declared,
that his friends and himfelf were French
emigrants going to Holland. M. Harnon
i court asked him, Irow it happened, that
they were not going to join the princes?
M. Bureau answered, that, differing in
opinion from them, they preferred going
to Holland. M. Harnoncoiirt told hiin,
that they niuft be treated as prisoners of
war. Not one of the whole < ompany
objected to giving his parole, except M.
Uexander de Lameth, who began a fine
speech on the rights of nations, and said
that they were arretted in a neutral coun
try. They were then in the principali
ty of Leige. M- Harnoncourt answered,
that the French had faeen so extremely cle
ver in confounding all kinds of rights,
and the rights of nations in particular, that
it was no wonder ifmiflakes ihould be the
consequence- M. de Lameth threatened
to write to M. de Mercy. M. Harnon
court was not intimidated ; and those
gentlemen are now fafe in Namur, where
they are to remain until the duke of
Briiiifwick decides on their fate. They
have declared, that the army which they
have quitted is encamped behind la Chiere,
between Jdouzon and Sterat. It is fa d
that M- la Fayette had attempted to found
the dispositions of his soldiers, and finding
that they had resolved to fhoet him, and
. being desirous himfelf of living a little
longer, he took the firft opportunity to
pafsinto an enemies country.
From the BrvJJls Gazette.
Advices are received, that the Prussian
array has taken poffeflion of the fortrefs of
Rodemacherin near the Moselle, between
I hionville and Luxemburg, in Lorraine.
Alicmanda, and that part of the g3rrifon
was pat to the fworci. It is also asserted,
tliat thr; French and Prufiians have verv
bloody tkirmifhes aimolt every day. The
latter have directed a body of their troops
to advance opposite to Chim:iy, from
whence they seem to hreateu ihat part of
our frontiers with fr.'queiit incurfiojis.
l o counteract these deiign-, lirong de
tachments o. infantry and cavalry have
been detached from the camp at Motr,
principally chalieurs and Hulans, to protest,
our territory in that quarter.
Late nevus from Evgltfh ■and Ir'ijh papers
LONDON, Sep. 1.
By the foreign mails, arrived yeflerday
morning, the probability of a rupture be
tween the Turks and Atiftrians increases
daily ; a body of 12.000 Turks, with a Pa
cha at their head, having lately approach
ed Chockzim, & demanded the evacuation
of the place ; but *on being informed by
the governor that he could not agree to
f his demand without a special order fpom
Vienna, the Turkish commander was
contented with encamping in the neigh
bourhood, where he waits the issue. The
Adrians in that quarter, in tile mean
time, have received confiderabie rein
forcement?.
Sept. 3. —By the accotmts "that, could be
collected of the fiate of France when earl
Gower left it, the people were flying to
arms in all quarters and directions. This
naturally occasioned delays in the towns
through which his lordship and his retinue
palled. They declare themfelve's deter
mined, to a man, to perish, or drive the
deTpots from their territories.
The killed in Paris, on the 10th of Ati
guft, we are now assured, were nearly
12,000, of whom more than Bc6o were of
the people. The Swiss, it seems, were
nearly all drunk ; and one of their firft in
ducements to fire was the discharge of some
juufkets from the windows of the Thuille
ries, by persons in their uniforms, but who
were not Swiss. Believing their corps en
gaged, they then fired immediately, before
they had hesitated.
Advices from BrufTels. of 09th Au%uft,
(late, that the duke of Brunfwick,'inliead
of walling any more time in carrying on
sieges, will march directly towards Paris
with his ?rmy, which now consists of
ty thousand men, while those of the prince
Hohenloe and count- He Clairfayt will be
left, by way of check on the forfrefles be
hind, and to amuse the different bodie
which defend the frontiers of Fiance.
The allied armies have only to take Thi-
Onville, Sedan, and Montnicdi ; and then
there will 1 e no fortrefs oh that fide to pre
sent an obstacle to their march into the
heart of France.
Upon the captur? of Sierk, pear Thion
ville, the king of PriifTia 1 ! two sons went
immediately to the cuftom-botiO, and sei
zed the njoney theft ! They ordered that
the revenues fhou.'d in .future be paid to
the king their father 1
Another of the afle.v; s of M. Theodore
Dillon has been beheaded at Lifie.
American Intelligence.
Delegations are gone from all the tribes
of the fix nations,incltulftjg theXtockbridge
Indians, to attend the treaty held by the
western Indians, whose place of rendezvous
is at the rapids of Miami, within about
thirty miles of Detroit; and if poffib'e to
purfua.de those lioifile tribes to a treaty of
peace with the United States. The Bii
tifh residing at the western forts, advise
the Indians to listen to a treaty of pence :
their traders not being able to obtain fur
on account of the general spirit of war a
mong the savages, encourage the meaPnre.
A motion has been obtained by thefefriend
ly delegations to remove the council from
the Miami to Mulkingum, i:i order to
the cotumifiioners of congress a better op
portunity to, open a treaty of peace with
the hcxftile tribes.
The governor of the State of Penn
sylvania has by prori inflation, given no
tice that the following persons are du
ly elected to serve in the-houfe of rcpre-T
Pentatives of the United States, for Penn
sylvania, for two years, tt>« comfcii-fiie
from the fourth dav of March next, viz.'
William Find ley. F. A. rvFuhlcntHirg, Da
niel Heiller, William Irvine, j. W.
tera, T. Hartley, P. Mublenburg,iT. F.t--
simons, Andrew Gregg, James Armflroeg,
William Montgomery, John Smilie, and
Thomas Scott,
KNOX VI L L , O"rober 10.
It is an undoubted truth, Miratige as it
may appear) that the Baron T>. Cnrriondo
let. governor of LouiPama, and governor
O'Neal, of Penfaeols, have opened the
(tores of the King of Sp-in. in WVR Flori
da, to the Creek and Cherokee.', and deli
vered them arms.and arfstnnnition-in abun
dance, advifcg :r.:tl Primulating them to r.o
t© war again!l the frontier inhabitants of
the United State-', and that qtm.kly ; that
now of jjever was the tin .r,-.vhiie the U. S.
were engaged with the northerh tribes.
On the 30th of September, r.baiit mid
night, John Bucchr.nnn's lfation. four rmies
Pouth of Naflvv'ille. (at Xvbic't P. j miry fami
lies had collected, and 'ifteen' gilninen) was
attacked by a party of Creeks and lower
Cherokee?, fnpppfed to cor.liii of three or
tour hundred.—Their approach, was Ptif
peffced by the miming of cattle'that had ta
ke.) fright at them, and upon crimination.,
they were found rapidly advancing within
ten yards of the gate, and from this place
and distance they received the fir!" tire from
the man who discovered them I fofia K'lio
ry.) They inwtiediarel" ret::.- ii.rr,
and continued a very heavy a d conftartt
firing upon the fation, ffelo.:: houses sur
rounded with a Hockule) Por an hour, and
were repulsed with eonfitjerable loPs. with
out injuring man, woman, or child, i:i the
station.
During the whole time of the attack the
I Indians were never , !M:>re diflai.t th in tea
yards from the block hottPe. and often in
large numbers close round the lower wails,
attempting to pv.t f -so it. One amended
the roof with a torch, v. !iere he w- . or,
and falling to the grannd renewed his at
tempts to fire the bottom logs, and ■«. as k:L
----j led. The Indians heed 30 balls th cvv'i a
| port kols of the overj' tt - hh • ' ;ed
irt the itotVf in the circumference of a hat,
and those Pricking in the wall , on the-out
lide'are innumerable.
Upon viewing.the -70:1 nd next morning,
it appeared, that the fellow wiio was Pilot
from the roaf, was a Curokee hay. breed,
of the Running Water, i :ov n bv the
whites by the c'.mc f Tom Tamea.ke's
Pre]) foil, o.'a French won; :n by an
Indian; and there ws; t.r a blood, and
signs that many dead had be--a dm: gcJ off,
and'litter,; had "been made, to carrw tue
wounded to their hemes, whjch they had
left a mile from the station. Near the
block house were found, Peveral fveords,
hatchietvp'p«s, kettles, and bu« 12 - of dif
ferent Indian articles; one of the f vords
was a fine Spariifh blade, aJKl'richly mount
ed in the Spainfli fafhion. In the morning
previous to the -* Ick.J9nath.au Gee, and
—Clayton were ft lit out es Ppies, and 011
the ground, among other articles left by
thelndians, were found a handkerchief and
a mocafon, known" one to belong to Gee,
and the other to Clayton, it is fuppoPed they
are killed.
Undoubted advices have been received
that as early as the • Sth of September, as
many as five hundred Creeks pafied the
Tenneflee, at the lower Cherokee towns,
and below, on their way, as thiy declared,
to make war on Cumberland, and that they
were joined by ab >ih one hundred Chero
' sees of those town . —7"his rnurt have been
the party that attackrd'Buchanan's flation.
Dreadful havoc w : s expccfed, but it is now
hoped, that the check they have received,
will induce titem to return without ma
king further attempts upon that settle
ment.
On the 3d ir.ftarit,Black's hloci; house, on
the head of Crc,d Creek, (a branch of
Li: tie R;-. ei jat " i -.ch there was Per {rant's
'.command, of trpt. Crawford's r- -npany,
was attai'Kby f. ;■ ife, ae.i. ; an hour
and a: ;■«. 111 tie .-j b ... .y oflixiian.% commanded by a Cherokee of Will's
luw.i, called the Tail, a brother of the
Bench, and TiJofeteike, cwififhug of three
other Cherokees, and live Creeks.
James Pall was killed, in the house, and
Morf? and Robert Sharp, at a fire
on tl>e out fide, and John Shanktand
Wour.ded : tj'ree holies were killed, and
seven taken off,
These are the fruits of the advice of
Baron D'Corrondolt and governor O'Neal;
and it is due to Mr. Panton, their chief iu
ftrument, to add, he has well a£fed his
part.
Extracl frcii a letter ■ I tiie Kentuckey Gazette, da
ted U Sober 10. '
" Official fay, that the five low
er towns of the Cherokee* have declared
war, and that three hundred Cherokees,
arid orre hundred Creek Indians, Were to
march the -th infianr, a|»ainft fume part of
this territory ; that it is uncertain on what
quarter the stroke will fall, but it is expect
ed the dejign is formed agaipft Cumber
land. The war appears inevitable. How
ihall we avert the impendingftorni, protest
the i inocent, and reltore a bleeding coun
try to peace ? Will mill ions of dollars, laid
I out in presents, a'nd given to the enemy,
obtain the object P I answer no. It has
long been infilled on, that the friendlliip of
I'Hians can be purchaftd. , I deny the opi
nion to be founded oil reason ; and experi
ence has taught us othcrwife. I have resi
ded on the frontiers for twenty years pall,
and claim fonie knowledge of Indiail af
fairs ; and if permitted to judge from ex
perience, rear is the best and only allurance
ot the friendfhip of an Indian. The idea
ol forming treaties a :d purcliating peace of
the Cherokee Indians, is as abftird to me as
th: fabulous ftorv or the goat treating with
the wolf, for the lecurity of her kids, and
I blulh to think that the policy of the In
dians has so far exceeded that of the en
lightened nation in which I live ; but it
may, be that the great \\ i.tlom 6f our conucils
mavhave beer, employed on obje£ts more
inters iling. I (hall not pretend to fav that
the citizens of Philadelphia have no regard
for the inhabitants weft of the Apalachian
mountains, but t know that things at a dis
tance are often viewed a indifferent, and
muil think that it would be difficult to make
a citizen of the wei'cern country believe
that if Philadelphia was attacked by an ene
my that was'known to be as faithlef as the
Cherokee Indians, that the inhabitants of
that city would think it any protection to
them to give such an enemy guns, cloathes,
and ammunition. The Indians boast that
we bad rather give them our property, than
defend it by our arms; and that by ma
king war against us, they can at any time
they please, bring on a treaty and obtain
prelents and . peace. And it is also laid,
that great debates have lately been had a
niong the Cherokee Indians, which would
be the ■moic advantageous to them, the
stealing of horses or taking women and
children prisoners, and that th? latter seem
ed by the moll able politicians among them,
to be most approved of, from the very high
prices which some of our citizens gave for
their friends who were lately captured at
Cumberland. lam told that the Hanging
Maw, Little TU'i'.ey, and the upper tewns
pretend that they are for peace, and .that
ibme credit is given to theirpromifes. The
Little Turkey is an Indian, and I well re
member the conduct of the Hanging Maw
in the year 1786, when Keanna and his par
ty decoyed hnd murdered Read and Bishop.
That very fellow, when I marched into
one of their town's, and demanded the mur
derers, informed me that Keanna and all
his party had run off to the northward In>
dians, and that he would deliver them up if
ever any of them came into his towns. A
tew hours after this promise was made by
the Hanging Maw, Keanna, by an unex
pected event, through the good conduit of
Majors Lee and M'Farfand, fell into our
Vandj, and was fortunately Ihot through
the head by Col. Outlaw. Thisinult prove
how little Mr. Hanging Maw is to be de
pended on. Last year John Watts was our
beloved confident. We n6\v learn, that he
is commander of the army that is marching
against us. Will experience never teach
men wisdom ? The idea of half war half
peace, was a novelty until the year 1776;
then introduced by the Cherokee. , and ever
since fuffered to be carried 011 by that peo
ple, which I pronounce to be the word of
wars that ever had an exiltence, and (hews
a want of policy in the nation that fuffers it
to be carried on against them, and is the
most advantageous to those who carry it
on.
The Indians, as a nation, must be ac
countable for the depredations committed
by theiP* people, or every idea of benefit
from a treaty is defeated. The effect ot
half.war half peace amounts to this 5 the
infirm, aged, and fucli as the Indians call
inufh-men. resort to the upper towns,
where they are fuffered to remain in peace
to make provil'ons for their army ; serve as
a barrier between us and them, and give
them every neceflbry intelligence they wish
to receive, to such as are in arms against
us.
We must have peace ; the horrors of war
are too painful any longer to be endured ;
by giving presents, we enrich our enemy
and teach them to fceliev* we are afraid of
them ; and I do no: scruple to fay, that the
best way to obrain a firm and lrtfting peace,
is to make a Aidde'n, iiKliferirmnate, well
direited attack on our enemies—l mean the
Cherokee Indians. If we attack the upper
towns they will find that we are determi
ned 110 longer to (land by as idle fpeftators,
and fee our dearest friends and nearest re
lations murdered, scalped, taken captives,
burnt, ,and butchered by the barbaroii;
hands of unprovoked and unrelenting sava
ges. By making the attack on them, we
lhall save our friends; tbe/'will recall their
army to defend their own, by which we
may evade the stroke intended againfl
Cumberland, and evince to the world, that
we have judgment to difcero, and power tc
pttnifh offences ; I mean that the Unites!
States lias this judgment and power ; but I
iear that even a ciifcretionary power is not
lodged with the firft officer of this govern
ment, to punilh tiie Indians for the crimes
they commit ngainft the law of nature and
nations, or I am confident he would think
the present a proper time to exefcife that
power."
[Circumflantial account of the ariftocratit
forces from Martinico, taking the French
transports out of the road of St. Kitts.
Bajjctcrre, Oct. 4. —A squadron of French
transports, consisting of 10 or ir, with a
bout 2200 national troops on board, escort
ed by a frigate, lately arrived at Marti
ri que, but were not fuffered to land, be
ing ordered away immediately. A part of
them put into Montferrat, and three came
here for water and proviiions, being in great
diflrefs for botii—They have neither mo
ney or credit. They sent to Guadaloupe,
but were refuted any kind of affiitnnce, and
forbid, 0:1 pain of death, coming there.
Thole at Montferrat, with the commo
dore, have (ince failed, but where they are
gone, we have not been able to learn. Yef
terdr.y a French 40 gun ship, and another
frigate anchored in Old Road, and ordered
the three transports away immediately,
with directions to qtlit these seas. The
President fetit an officer on board, to inform
the Captain, that they were then under the
protection of the Britifli— He a;:fwereci,
that if they were Under the protection of
the devil he would have them. He, how
ever, fainted the officer (Lieut. Hay, of
the artillery) both 011 going and coining,
with four guns. In this Situation matters
remained till this morning, when the offi
cers of both parties were to meet the Pre
sent, and fubniit the whole to his deci
iion.
Since writing the above, we are inform
ed, from undoubted authority, that the
commodore of the French frigate is MAL-
V O, the fame that threatened last war to
take the Proserpine, Capt. Byron, and ac
tually failed from 'Statia for that purpose,
: v ut was in the end taken himfelf by Capt.
Byron off Montferrat ; he is a native of
Guadaloupe. He lent an insolent letter to
Mr. Efdaiie, our President, last night,
threatening to carry off the transports, and
if the national troops were not delivered up,
that when he got the fbip; to sea he would
land his tro»ps with field pieces and put
h-ma 11 to death. He said that a counter
revolution took place in France 011 the 3d
us September, and that he ablolutely mult
have the traitors now landed at Old Road,
[They all landed last night, in number a
jout ijcoj —THe former part of his threat
lie has already put into execution, as he is
cow Handing to windward with ali the
flips.
But whether he means to execute the
latter, time is to determine. The com
mander of the troops declared, that rather
than be given up to the frigate, he would
kill himfejf, knowing well the consequen
ces, ihonld he fall into their hands : The
tri'gates are manned with a panel-os free
booters of all defcripuons, picked up as vo
lunteers in Martinique and Guadaloupe.
8 o'clock, Thursday evening. Vi e are
|uit informed, that in confeqv.ence of ano
:her msflage lent off by l ent Hay, M. Mai
yo has brought to under Brimstone hill,
ind. is to come on shore to-morrow, to
flew by what authority he took these
Ihips away.
His excellency General Woodlcv has gi
■en orders to fuppiy the French troops
lere with proviiions, &c.
r _Dttached rejicQtons from a correfpondenl~\
1. A fpeculatiiig spirit, if prevalent, is
always dangerous in any country, and
more particularly so when it infects the
government itfelf. In that -cafe the peo
ple and their interests are at the mercy of
those wbofe situation and information en
ables them to take undue advantages of
unsuspecting ignorance. 11 is in this view
of things that in the charter of the bank of
England there is an article, orclaufe, ex
pressly prohibiting members of parliament
from being national-bank-dire£!ors, but
which teems to have been carefully omit
ted in a certain tranfeript on this fide the
water.
2. With force efcaraffers every matter relat
ing 10 government mud be rendered myfleri
ous ; as it on purpose to bewilder the enqui
rer, and the more he reads the more to perplex
him. This is something like the gloiious un
certainty of the law, which has been the ftipport
oMhbularids in all ages who must have turned
to some less lucrative employments had the rode
of legislation been disgraced withplatz cxpfjficn
and the open Simplicity of hone P. y and com
mon ft nfe.
3. Oracles in ancicnt times, beir.£ intended
to deceive, were always uttered in dart; lan
guage To as to require interpretation. With
the I'iiTi'- iprit, the light of financial
calculation, in modem times,is onlv imparted to
a few, who t ho' perhaps natura lv short-sighted
animals, yet thro* a glais (not feeing darkly)
have h en enabled by ike eJjcßs of extended vi
s nto fallen on the jtift dues of the army, on
the hitle boon that was the property of the wi
dow & the orphan of him that fell in the defarts
of Saratoga,or perished in the inhospitable waste:
o« Carolina.—lt is matter of comfort however,
that th< te leeches will in due time fall off froir
the body .ha: I.as long nourished them bey one
th'-ir just, proportion. At present, finding
f he!Jil'■ vc.i tier eßcd and dragged into public
view, it is no worrier they endeavour to allevi
ate the of awakened confrience by pub-
Itfbing and difTemmatmg scurrilous pamphlets,
which the v-.ry midwife, that ushers them intc
njiftence is ashamed to own -pamphlet;
l fcrawl'd fz the y ecli(fe, and fluff d with, curse.
dark" agair.il the old and tried friends of thi:
•otintry ; but whom the grateful recollectior
W the people will support again!! calumny, im
poflure, and the envenomed refenrment of dif
appomted ambition and grovelling avarice.
" The darts that envious dunces aim
Can never hurt an honest fame j
If in yourfelf but smooth and round
They glance aside without a wound.
—
PHILADELPHIA.
November 3.
The following gentlemen areele&cd re
presentatives of the slate of New-Jersey tc
the Congrifjof tfye United States.—.Lam
bert Cadv, allader, John Beatty, Elian
Boudinot, Jonathan Dayton, and Abraharr
Clarke.
Since the reinforcements from France
-.ave arrived in Hilpaniola, the negroes in
liany parts have returned to their duty.
Their treatment, it is said, is much altered
or the better. They have now (what
hey should have had before) a good al
owance of beef and pork every day, and
ire cloathed with frocks and trowfers in
lead of going naked.—lt is sincerely
wiffied that the discipline of the cart-whip
night be aboliflied ; a mode of punishment
00 cruel for infliction upon any species of
mimatioti whatever.
Accounts are received, by express, from
he weftw.ird, that nine hundred Indians
ad attacked a fort near Cumberland ri
rer, but that they were repulsed with great
laughter.
Wednesday last arrived the ship Pigou,
:apt Loxley, which failed from London
:he ift of September, and detained in
he channel 15 days, by contiary winds—
he came into our Capes lall Monday.
By t'lis vtiTel we learn that there have
>een, this fe?fon, very plentiful crops in
England i there are Hill in the granaries
arge quantities of old wheat.
A paflenger in this ship had been in
Paris a Ihort time before the Pigou failed ;
ie is of opinion, that :he intelligencere
reived in America from France, has been
t-ery generally erroneous—and that French
affairs do not, by any means, appear un
favourable to the friends of freedom.
Capt. Gk'och, of the schooner Abigal,
of Boftciv, is arrived here from Malaga,after
a pafifage days. When capt. Gooch
was : t G 'brr.ltar, on the 29th of Septem
ber last, he was informed by a refpe&able
merchant, Mr. Anderfon, that he had
that day received several letters from
France, containing very interesting intel
ligence—that the combined armies had
been engaged in a general action with
me of the French armies ; the enemy
confiitcd of ;• 0,000 men ; the number of
French was not mentioned. The flatigh
ter on both fides was very great, anil the
battle .terminated in favour of the patriots
—for the enemy was forced to retreat, and
the French kept the field. It was said
the enemy expected to be reinforced by a
jundlion with the Ruffian troops. It was
;ilfo mentioned, that the king of Spain
was raising troops, stid intended to fend
an army of 60,000 men to join the concert
or. princes. The Ruffians and Turks
have closed the articles of a peace. The
king and queen of Frrnce were llill in
prison. No further intelligence of the
marquis tic ia Fayette. "The alternative
adopted bythis virtuous soldier was dread
ful to his filings. He mr.fl either have
defended himfelf by force, and ruined his
country, or he mull have become a facri
fice to the Pzople, whom he at firfl served
with the mo*: faithfula&ivity, and has since
effended error only; for Fayette is
certainly an honest patriot ; taut his pre
ftnt attachment to royalty is not of a cor«
nipt nature. Ke has been deceived by
those, wliofe excessive and improper ex
::ltation, gate them power over almoil
every person within their reach, when
they chose to condcfcend."
" A gentleman who was lately in Paris,
and had an opportunity of observing t v .e
proceedings of the National AfFembly,
informs us, that he never fawbufinefs li>
quickly dispatched by any public body ;
and, fays our correfponcent, the truth is,
that comparatively speaking, there is m>
difference of opinion annongft the Frencii
Patriots."
We are happy if] beingiable to infornx
the public, that the Cannl intended to u
nite the waters of Sufquehanna and
Schuylkill, was begun on Friday Jaft,
on the [crown level of the middle
ground, between the Tulpehocken ami
Quitapahilla : and that the canal for uni
ting the waters of the Schuylkill and De
laware, was begun on Tuesday last, near
Norrifton Mill.
Extradl of a letter from Virginia.
" It feetns to be the aimoft unanimous
with of the people of our state, to have a
change in the Vice Prefidencyof the Uni-»
ted States. Several candidates have been
named, but Governor Clinton appears to
us to be tiie only one who would unite
the republican interest, and there can be
little doubt of his el etion, provided no o
ther candidate is offered to divide the in
terest."
A correspondent, who has lately mat!e
a tour through molt of the diflridls of this
state informs, that a change in the above
office also appears defireablc to the people
of this state, and that they unanimously
speak of Governor Clinton as the man.
From South Carolina we have similar ac
counts, as appears from the following pa
ragraph, which we are requested to re
publifh :'j
" Camden (S. C.) The approaching
■lection of Prcfident and Vice-Prefidenr.
begins to occupy the public attention—
with refpett to the firft there csn be no
Jivifion, and if we can get the better of
a little slate pride, and a prepofieflion in
lavor of some one of our own Dons, I be
lieve that diltinguifhed patriot, Governor
Clinton, will also haw the unanimous voice
as the electors of this state."
It is mentioned in the Knoxville Ga
zette, that " the principal chiefs of the
Cherokee Indians (except five of the lower
:owns) have given notice that the five
lower towns are for war, and every other
part of the nation for peace with the
United States."
Extrafc of a letter from an officer in the
United States army, at Fort Jcflerfon,
to his friend in N. York, dated Sep
tember ii, 1792.
"As for peace, it is entirely out
of thequeftion : the savages are determin
ed for war.
" To give you an idea of this place
read some Fairy Tate -, a crucl gian s
cattle, in the midst of an aimoft impenetra
ble sorest, surrounded by moats, fwarnps,
&c. See. secluded from all the reft of man
kind, and you have the picture complete.
As for malic, we have at night the most
enchanting concert of wolves, bears,
panthers, &c. imaginable. At this instant
there is one of the latter (or some devil
of an Indian, who can imitate them all)
howling round the garrison, a note fuffici
cnt to strike terror to the heart of man.
Th.ere are very few nights that we are not
tinder arms, being alarmed by our fentinelt
firing on the enemy. Who, we know, have
two or three spies constantly about us.
We dare not go beyendthe gates : how.
ever, thank God, we want neither pro
visions, water, ammunition, nor men.
" From every circumstance, there ii
not the smallest doubt of the next cam
paign's being a bloody one."
FIVE DOLLARS REWARD.
RUNAWAY from tfie fubferiber "n Phila
delphia the 1 sth of September a negro man,
named CUFF. He is about 23 years of age,
$ teel 6 inches high, has a remarkable walk,
3c bad on,a red & yellow ftripedbutton jacket. Rut
fia lheeting shirt and trowfers of the fame duff" a
pa'iT of shoes and an old round hat Whoever will
Bee up the said negro—and bring him to Mr,
Andrew St reefy* Market ftteet. or secure him so
that I get him, (hat» have the above reward and
all reaionafcle expences.
HERMAN r-ROOCK.
3*. iavv«lb unJtnorvn Correfpondeitt
A Monsieur Philipe Freneau, Ed-iteur dc la &a
sstte Nationale.
je vois tss ecrits, plus je lis fa gazette j
Plusje me fens faifi d'&ne flame fecrette
Q*>e m'infpire ieur vcrite :
Qu' nos nes nouveaux noment temerite
Surtout quand elle enfante one ardeur incHfcrette
A certains reflexions
De leur risible noblefle,
Qu*ils veufent etablir der'-f /peculations
Pour trained des longs jours dans, la vile moHeffe.
Apres qu'ils ont raVi, commc font les bourdons
Ce fuc deiicieux travaille par I'abeille.
Puis pCmr nous en conter de toutes les fascns
•En dlfcours empoules, et rnaufladffs chanfoncj
Que dechirent trOp mon oreille :
Pour que daiis certains temr, et certaines faifons
•Jc furve les confeils qu'a Silt'ius tu done $
Sans poavoir eiiter que das demangeaifous,
tye forcerit plume en main, et que je Pabandone
Aux afßigeants effets, qu'un jeurie ambitieux,
In dejiit du'bon feps, de la terre et des cieux 5
"Vient de nous iropofer, par le plus vil outrage :
Mais dont Torage
Doit'tomber fur les § nes—et derm
dieux
Dts-que la verite, parlera Ton larcgage.
Ah ! je crains'voir ces terns, ou'les Araericains
Vont etre par Vinfame ]| Gabelle f
Forces agioteurs, maquereaux et putains j
Vils courtifarits .... laquais et copifti
fide ire
•De ce monflre de law, que l'enfer en courrou:
Vomit fur !a terre Galli'que
It doat i'imbeciHe Amerique
Ne fuc parer, les redoutables coups.
Peut on fouffrir eniin, qu*au temple de memoir-e
Cet etre ambitieux cfe fe presenter ?
"lVlais quand rhiftoire
Nous inflruira* qu'on en fut le chaffer
j\ coup-de-pVeda au cu, pour le precipiter
An fond ae Tonde noire
Ce sera chose a reciter,
Pour doner aux rr.Ort'els un auffi just exemdle,
Que dans ce temple
Aucu'un port fes par, et n'ofe s*y montrer
Sans que par la vertu, I'on y puiiTe percer*
* Nobles Americains. f Speculation eft en
tendu en Amerique par le mot agiotage, qui ef
derive du verbe latin dgo t agir, etre actit. J>
voudrais le definir par, faire coup de gr:(Te. \
Voyez, poems by P. Freneau, Tome '2d. page 38
To Sylvius,*on the folly sis writing poetry, § L'Au
teur fait trois degres Metres auxiliaires qui on
concouru etfoutierinent de toutleur pouvoir le de
laftreux et national pillage. I. Lesfiens font tou
ces meprtfables courears des campagnes, qui (1
fout mis dans une mediocre Situation aux depart
des ignorants, de ia veuve, et de t orphelin. ?.•
Bien—nts, b*nt~nali t well born, deja remarques
font les fectaires de M. Jean Adams: riches
pauses, orgeuilleirx, prcfomprueux, grands agio
reurs, n'importe de qu'cl etat, ils fe croyent d une
caste plus fine q>»e celle de leurs concitoyens. 3
Dctlii-dicux font ies Alten*es corroropues, ou, h
/najorite des deux chambfes. Ils fe croyent for
tis de la cuifle de Jupiter leurs noras feron
marques avec de Tencre puif<e dans le Styx par dei
»;i:rivains impartiaux. Ce teTme n'eil pas eloigne
|| Gabelle, ou excise fe! : une aes plus odi
eules taxes qu'on impose fur des peuples, commi
le font toutes les' indire&es. La*w ou Laivs \
l'auteur du Mifiifipl foes U malheureufe regence,
Son nom£ft en horreurer. France, malgre, que U
regent, des dues'et seigneurs, agioteurs
fpecuUteurs, et 11ur verWHSe'ail*Hialre foutinief
fent fes procedes'ihf¥^ts o
" T-"• -
Some particulars rciativ* to' the interior parts oj
America [by Mr. lmlay s formerly of Ntw-Jer
fty. Continued from No. 104.]
THE frequent turnings in the Miflifippi pro
duce in every bend eddy water, which wit!
the advantage the wind affords (which blowing th<
greater pare of the year from the south-west, anc
directly up the windings of the river, which, by rea
son of the vacancy between the banks and lifinj
foroft: on either f»ie, afford a channel for the cur
rent of the air) )sSufficient with fails, keeping ai
much as possible in the eddy water, to carry a boa
50 miles a day up the ft ream.
To account for those winds philofophicalli
be extremely easy } but, as it is a circum
llance notorious from the testimony of voy3gers ir
the Mifiifippi and Ohio, the test of ex
perience will be prefeired to any philosophical di(-
quifition upon the fubjeft.
Should this navigation prove too tedious, anc
no improvements appear likely to be made in it
the importing into the country may be faciiitatec
by another channef, from the Gulph cf Mexico
up the Mobile, which is a lazy current j from the
principal branch of which there is but a fliort pas
sage to a branch of the Tenefi'ee, when you wil
have the advantage or the stream quite into th<
Ohio. I have enumerated th-is circumftanc<
tnerely for the fake of information, for I have not
the smallest doubt of the eligibility of the naviga
tion of the Mifiifippi, which is proved from the
experiments which are daily making.
The distance from Pittfburg to the Mufkingum
js 173 miles 5 to the Little Kanhaway 17851 c
the Great Kanhaway 285 ; to Great Sandy 342 ;
♦o the Sciota 3905 the Limestone 500 5 to the
Little Miami 510 j to Licking creek 524 5 to th<
Oreat Miami 550 ; to the Great-bone creek
582 ; to the Kentucky 626 ; to the Rapiers 703 j
to Salt river 723 jto Green river 922 5 to tfce
"Wabafh 1019 jto Cumberland river 1113 ;to the
Teneffee 1F26; to the Mifiilippi 1183 ; from
thence to New Orleans is about 1200.
It is about 230 miles from the mouth of the
Ohio up the Miflifippi to the mouth of the Mifou
yi, and about 20 from thence to Illinois* which is
navigable for batteaux to its source* From
thence there rs a portage only of 2 miles to Chick
ago, whkh is elfo navigable for batteaux to its
entrance into lake Michegan, which Is a distance
©f 16 miles. This lake affords communication
with the liver St. Lawrence through Lake
faffing Niagara by a portage of 2 miles, Tm
Jake Erie and Michega* are na?lgalle for vessel?
drawing 6 and 7 feet water. This is one of th<
routes by which the exchange of commodities be
tween the northern and fovthern parts of this em
pire will be facilitated.
In continuing the plan of intercourfc, it will be
found extremely easy to pass through lake Onta
rio to Wood creek, up Wood creek, and by a por
Uge of about 3 miles you arrive at a creek., waicn
in 3 miles more brings you to Fort Edward upon
[he Mohawk river, Ifrhich is a branch cf Huri
fon's river. There are federal carrying place?
between that and Its junction with Hudson ; bui
very little labour would remove them, and I hav«
no doubt but the state of Hew-Yorlt will be judi
cious enough to set early about it. It is certaii
that they have ordered surveys to be rr.ade, am
plans are forming for the removal of those ob
ftruttions. It has been long in embryo wit!
them. 11 was ir>»po-iiible a plan of so much utili
ty could escape that f;age and penetrating politici
an General Schuyler, whose vail estate lies mod!;
in that part of America.
There are also portages Into the waters of lak<
Erie from the Wabafh, Great Miami, Mufkin
gum, and AUeganv, from 2 to 16 miles. Ihi
portage between the Ohio and Potowmac will b(
about 20 miles when the in the Mo
nongahala and Cheat rivers aie removed, whid
will form the firft object of the gentlemen ofVir
yfinia when they have completed the canals cn tin
Potowmac.
The obftruftiotts to'the na-vigstion of the Grea
Kanhaway are of such magnitude, that it will re
quire a work of'ages to remove them 5 but if ever
that should be done, there will be an easy com
municatidn between that and James river, anc
likewise with the Roanoke, which runs through
But this is an event too re
mote to deserve any confederation at present.
A! 1 the rivers in this country of 60 yards vidt
and upwards, are navigable almost to sourc
es for flat-»bottomed boats during their floods, anc
for batteaux the greater part of the year, tin
great Kanhaway and little excepted. Th<
Tenafee has a considerable fall where it pasTe:
through Cumberland mountain, there muf
be a portage also. From thence it is rtavigabjk
quite to Holiton.
The rapids of Ohio "I have defcribeo in 2 for.
mer lettei. They are no obftru&ion in vas
ter to boats going down the river, and indeed bat
teaux may pa& aimoft at any t;me. 1 here ar<
two small rapids in the Wabafh between i .s mout}
and St. Vincent's, but they are no impediment tc
navigation, except at timer, of lew w.: ter. Ihi
Kafkafkia, is a small river which runs into tht
Miffifippi below the Illinois, and is navigable ;
r onfiderable way above the Plains 5 the Mifiifip.
pi is navigable to St. Anthony's Falls, without a
ny obflruftion. Carver dtferibes i: as navigabli
above them as far as he travelled. We have tc<
little knowledge of the Mifouvi to form any de
.ided opinion of the extent of its navigation. I
is however certain, that it is a more .power fu
than the Miffifippi, and in entering tha
river, it triumphantly rushes across, and its turbi<
.vatcrs, unmixed, seem to difdaina conne£tior
■vith the clearer current of the other. An eaf
:cmnaunication again opens by Je«»« fiorn th
Torthern Jakes to the head branches of the river
•vhich run into Hudson's bay into the Ar&ic re
pons—and from the sources of the Mifouri int>
:he Great South Sea. Thus in the centre of th
:-arth, governing by the laws of reason and hu
nanity we seem calculated to become at once th
emporium and prote&ors of the world.
Before I finifli this letter, I (hull just erite* in
:<*> forne of the minutiie of the difttnee and tim
>f descending down the Ohio, which will serve so.
in account of all the other rivers. Mr. Jcfferfoi
Tasftated that " the inundations of the Ohio be
;in about the laftof March, and subside in July
Frequent rains in the latter end of th'
jutumn produce floods in the Ohio., and it i
*n uncommon season when one of those flood
ioes not happen before Christmas 'if there i
nuch frofty weather in the upper part? of thi
:ountry, its waters generally remain low unti
:h.-y begin to thaw. But, if the ri>er is not fro
ten over (which is not very there i
ilways water fufficient for boats of any size frorr
November until May ; when the waters general
y begin to-fubfide 5 a-nd by the middle of Jun<
n moil seasons they are too low frr boats abovi
r orty tofcs, and thsfe mufi fce flat bottomed. Thi
froft seldom continues so long as the middle o
February, and immediately upon its breaking th<
river is flooded } this flood may in a degree sub
side, but for no length of time 5 and it is froir
:hat period until May'that the boats generally
:ome down the river. The distance of defcend
ng is in proportion to the height of the water ;
but the average Jiftance is about eighty miles ir
: wen ty-four hours, and from sixty to one hun
ired'are the extremes; so that the mea:n time o:
joing in a flat-bottomed boat from Pittfburg tc
he Rapids, is between eight and nine-day-8, an:
jbcmt twenty cays more to New-Orleans : whici:
will make a pafiage from Pittiburg to that pla c <
• early a month. The inundations cf the Miflj
-1 ppi commence something later than those of the
Ohio j but it 13 very certain they begin in March,
ind subside in July. This i-s the most propei
rime to ascend the river, as you avoid the flioals.
lave finer weather, but above all, when the watei
s high, you have stronger eddies ; and with tak
ng the advantages, and with dexterous watermen]
you may proceed fifty miles * day which will
bring you back to the rapids of the Ohio in fort)
days, making a large allowance for contingencies.
1 rtiall take leave of you for th * piefent, with
observing, that the fmaiier rivers ftd'.e no stated
period to govern their inundations j but are fub
je€t to be Hooded by all heavy r*'ws, -which is 2
great advantage to the country, as it arrurds the
inhabitants frequent opportunitks of fending
their produce to the several markets upen tht
large rivers.
Three handsome Editions of the Law j
s/ the United States for [ah at this offiu
(No. 209 MarketJireet) in folio and 08a
vo, eithmr full or half bound—N.3. Tht
Laws of the lajl SeJJion, in oflavo only, nay
ic had separate, price three eighths of a dtller,
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS
OEhber, 1792.
D. // But. Ther. Wind. IVeath.
Tuesday, 23, 7 30. 45 32 N.N.E. Fair.
2 30. 42 55 do. do.
Wtdnejday, 24. y 30. 37 37 Calm Fair.
30.25 64 s.s.w. do.
Thurjday, 25. 7 30. 1 52 ! W. Fair.
2 30. 1 70 N. W. do.
Friday, 26. 7 h 30. i 46 Calm Fair.
2 30. 17 71 S.W. do.
Saturday, 27. 7 30.20 46 N. Fair.
2 30.25 68 E. do.
Sunday, 28. 7 30.12 49 Calm Haze.
s 30. o 66 S.W Fair.
Monday, 29. 7 29.92 52 Calm Fog.
2 30. o 66 N. E. cloudy
F O R S A L E,
A good MILL SEAT,
And an excellent Itand for a country ftorc,
Situate on Mtilftone~Creek, about feu en miles fro n,
Hide's Town or Cranberry, en the %reat l oad
hading from Hide's Toivn to Monmouth
court-bouse, in New -JerJey.
THE'RZ are one hundred and sixty-seven acrei
and an half of good land rn the above men
tioned tradt ; a new mill thereon 28 by 40 feet
just built-j an excellent ttream of water ; th<
mill enjoys a head of water between 6 3nd *;
feet j has a pair of stones, and water fuftcien
to drive 4 pair ; about 25 acres of excellent mea
dow,'and about 20 acres more'to be made witi
great convenience 5 two good frame dwelliDj
houses thereon, built about 4 years since, wits
kitchens to both 5 a barn and stables j excellen
water close to the door, and including about 2<
acres of excellent wood land. For terms appl;
lojofeph 'J our nee on the -premHes, or at M'iCea)
*T\& Van Emburgh"s (lore on their wharf immedi
ately next below Arc-h-ftreet, to
ROBERT M«KEAK :
Whp has for Sale,
■Five Grants of Land in Franklin county, ii
the Jlate of 1000 acres each ;
Situate on Bioad River, and taken up 28c!
June last. One grant in the fame courity an<
ltate, of one thousand acres, dated 25th May
1790. One of two hundred and eighty-seven a
cres and an half, in the>fame county and ft ate, da
ted 23d April, 1789, and on Trail Creek ; am
one grant of two hundred and eighty-seven acre
and an half, in the fame county and state, on th
Occonse River.
Philad. OdV. 31. e. w.
New-Tori and Philadelphia
STAGES,
A N D
Bordenton, Burlington, and Trenton 01
Lamberton
PACKETS.
THE proprietors of the New-York and Phi
ladelphia Land and Water Stages, begleav*
to mention, that for the better accommodation o
the paflengers, they have removed their differeri
packct boats from their former stand, at thi
Crooked Billet Wharf, to the wharf or dock im
mediately next below Arch-ftieet ; from whenci
a convenient packet boat starts for New-York
as irfual, on every Sunday, Tuesday, Wednefda;
and Thurfdav, and returns on every Tuesday
Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The pafiage t<
be made either by the way of Bordenton or Bur
lington-; eaah place taken alternately.
Fare for pafi'engers from Philadelphia to New
York - - 15s.
For goods do., do. per cwt. 6s.
ods Van Emburgh and M'Kean,
David Williamfon,
Proprietors of the line of New York and Pbiladel
pbia ftQges, by the rout of Bordenton.
Jacob Myers,
Amos Hutchin,
Nicholas Schenck,
Proprietors of the line of New York and Pbiladel
pbia stages-, by the rout of Burlington.
Bordenton, Oft* 1.
For freight or pafl'age apply to the matters or
board, or to
M'Kean and Van Emburgh;
Who have for sale at their store on laid wharf,
immediately next below Arch-street,
Ole Madeira, 1 Muscovado, 1
Teneriffe, and >Wines. Loaf, and >Svgar:
Mountain j Lump j
Jamaica Spirits, Molafles,
Antigua, 1 Coffee,
Montferat & >Rcm. Chocolate,
Newbury J Bohea Tea,
Rochelle Brandy Burlington Pork,
in pipes, cases and Hams,
demijohns, Flour,
Gin in pipes and cases, Bar Iron, &c. &c. Scz,
©rders for Grain, Staves, Bills of Scantling, oj
other Lumber, punctually attended to.
For freight or pafTage to Lamberton 01
Trenton, apply at said wharf to Thomas Afh
moore, William Dougkfs, John Afhmoore 0;
Alexander Douglafs, (Matters on board) or a:
above, to M'Kean 8c Van Emburgh.
Philadelphia, October 6, 1792.
Manufa&ured and for Sale,
At No. ii, North
Fafliionable Round Top and Flat
BUTTONS,
Warranted superior to any imported ol
equal price.
Country Store-keepers supplied either ir,
fmaU or large quantifies, By
S: POST & Co.
N.B. Conklhel Buttons, Buckles, &c.
Oct. 17. sawtf
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. Oswald,
( Pi tlx Eleven Pence)
FIVE LETTERS,
addressed to the
Yeomanry of the United States:
CONTAINING some Observations on the
S:heme of Wm. Duer Ejq. and Mr Secreta#
ry Hamilton, to establish National Manufafture9 ,
by a FARMER, This pamphlet, so highly in
teresting at this period, may be had at th£ follow
ing places ; at Mr. Oswald's Printing-Office, No
156, Market-street 5 at No. 209, Market-street;
at Mr. Dobfon's, 41, South Second-street j at
Mr. Crukftianks, 91, Market-street j at Mr,
Aitken's, 22, Market-street j and at Mr. Youag's
S. W. corner of Chefnut and Second-streets.
Aueuft 21.
New-Jersey Confiscated Lands.
WHEREAS the firft purchaler did not
comply with the conditions of sale ;
this is to give notice that the following tradt of
land, containing fifty acres and thirty nine hun
dredths, ftridt measure situated in Hardifton town
(hip, near the road that leads from Elijah Coi
lards, deceased, to Paulinfkill, late the prooem
of Oliver De Lancey, will be fold at public vendue.
The sale to begin .on Wedncfday the 28th day
of November next, at 2 o'clock in the afternoon
at Sufiex courthouse ; and befidcs cjfti, the sol- I
lowing state obligations will be received in pav
ment, to wit,—Officers and soldiers notes given
for the depreciation of their pay— notes given Z9
the militia of this Hate for thsu*rrearages 0 f their
pay—certificates liquidated by Silas Condift— and
given by the Trea-furer of this ftzte to per
sons who had demands against the confifcated
estates of New-Jersey.
JOSEPH GASTON,
Agent for Sufiex county.
Oft. 24, 3792* 4w.jaw.
Terres a Vendre
Darts an pais bien pevple,—
S AVOIR, foixante cinq mille, trois cens, fo:x
ante et ouatorze Acre*, en une feale piece,
dans le canton le mieux peuple de la Caroline Me
ndionale, leDiftiiftde Ninety-Six, Ces terres
font fituees dans une contrcc aj>reable, et falubre,
ou les fievres font inconnues j a environ vingt lieues
wColombie, la Capitale, et contigues ala ville
de Cambridge, 6u il y a College, et Cour fuperi
eure. A environ douze lieues, ily a bonne navi
gation;; et il eft tres probable, que dans quelque
temson rendra navigable le Grand Saiude, riviere
qui arrofe les terres fnemes. Zlles font agreab!e~
ment diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons charman
propres a la culture du tabac, du coton, du maig
et du petit grain jet dor.t one proportion consider
able fe peut aifement convertir en prairies fertiles*
il n'eft peut-etre gueres pd'flibie dfc rencontrer une
pareilie piece de terre a vendre dans aucun autre
des Etats Unis jet pour les conditions de Tachat,
on les rendra tres commodcs.'
S'informer a i'impiimerie de la Gazette Na
tional. Sept. 5.
LANDS for. SALE,
TN a well fettled Countrv. SIXTY-FIVE
1 THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY-FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in one
body, in the most populous part of the state of
South-Carolina, in theditrrift ofNinety-fix---It
is situated in a fine healthy climaf,free from fever
ic ague,about lixty miles from Columbia, the feat
ot government. The land is contiguous to the
town of Cambridge, where are a feminarv for the
inftruftion of youth, and a superior law court. It
is at present within about thirty-five miles of good
navigation, with a probability of having the river,
called the Great Saluda, that flows along one fide
of the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
fully diverfified into swells snd vales, and is per
fectly well calculated for thn culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and fmalJ grain ; a great
proportion of it may be Trade meadow ground.
There is not, perhaps, such a body of land, so cii
cumftanced, for sale in any other of the U . States.
The terms of payment will be made convenient ta
the purchaser or purchafeis. Apply to the Printer.
August 29. jawtf
TAKE N OTIC E."'
mulatto man named LUKE,
VV the property of the fubferiber living in
Accomack county, Virginia, ran away from
him on the firit day of September last, and was
taken up and committed to the gaol of Newcas
tle county, in the State of Delaware, on the 14th.
day of September, where he remain'd until the
4th of this instant, Oclobe-, when a Mr. Jones,
who fa:d he lived in Frederick Town, in the
county of Cecil, in Maryland, appeared and pro
duced a Benjamin Fergufon, who made oath
that he fufpetied the said flare to be a freeman,
named John Wright,-who had failed with the
said Fergufon in a schooner belongingto the fold
Jones, and had committed a burglary on board
of her in July lad, in consequence ®f which the
said slave was delivered by order of the hon.
David Finney, a supreme judge of the said state
ofDelaware, to the said Jones, to take his trial
for the said supposed offence. As lam fully
convinced from the description of the said
slave, given to me by the gaoler, that he is my
property, and that the said Fergufon has rniftaken
him for Wright, I do hereby direct the said Mr.
Jones, and Fergufon, to return the said (lave to
the plaqe from whence they took him, and to
inform me thereof, otherwise 1 shall proceed
according to lav,-.
JOHN CROPPER, Jan.
Oft- 16th. *792. 2a.w>3w.
PR I M T F T> TtV
CHILDS and SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE N0.*209, HIGH«STK££T,
WEAR FIFTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA*