Vol. I.
FOR the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
RULES
For chan~iny a limited Republican Govern
ment into an unlimited hereditary one.
I. TTT being neceff.iry, in order to effect
X * >e char>g. .to get rid of constitu
tional shackles, and popular prejudices, ail
ofiible rnenns and occaiions are to be
liiv ' f-' both these purposes
11. Nothing being more likely to pre- •
pare the vulgar mind for aristocratical
ranks and hereditary powers, than titles
endeavor in the offset of the governmen, to
confer these oil its moil dignified officers.
If the principal magiflrate should happen
to be particularly venerable in the eyes of
people, take advantage of that fortu
nate circumstance in setting the example.
111. Should the attempt fail, thro' his
republican aversion to it, or from the dan
ger of alarming the people, do not aban
don the enterprize altogether, but lay up
the proportion in record Time may gain
it respect, and it will be there always rea
dy cot and dried for any favourable con- ;
juncture that may offer.
IV. In drawing all bills, resolutions,
and reports, keep constantly in view that
the limitations in the constitution are ul
timately to be explained away. Prece
dents arid phrases may thus be shuffled in,
without being adver ed to by candid or
weak people, of which good use may af
terwards be made.
V. As the novelty and bustle of inaug
urating the governrn lit will for some time
keep the public mind in a heedless and
unsettled (ta f e let the Prtfs, during this
period be busy i > propagating the doc
+ r |oo. . ( ::J, r.cy. For
this purpose it wid be particularly useful to
confound a mobbifh democracy with a re
prefenlawe republic, that by exhibiting
all the turbulent examples and enormities
of the former, an odium may be thrown
on the char cter f the latter Review
all the civil contcfts, convuUions, fictions,
broils, iquabbles, bickerings, .lack eyes
and bloody noses of ai eient middle, and
modern ages, caricatti e them into the
moll frightful forms and colours that can
be imagined, and unfold one scene of the
horrible tragedy after another, 'till the
people be made, if pofiible, to tremble at
their own fliadows —Let the discourses on—
then contrail with these pi&ures < f terror
the quiet of hereditary fucceffiori, the re
verence claimed by birth and nobility,
and the fafcinating influence of (lars, and
ribbands, and garters ; cautiously suppres
sing all the bloody tragedies and unceas
ing oppreffijtii, which fonn the history of
this fpecits of government. No pains
should be spared in this Dait of the under
taking. for the greatell will be wanted, it
being extremely difficult, especially when
a people have been tao -lit to .eafon and
feel their rights- to "ouv nee them that a
king who is alway ei.uiyto the peo
pie, and a nobility who are peril ps fli'l
moie so, wiiltek- v -e. <er care of the peo
ple than the people will take of them
selves.
VI. But the grand nojlrum will be a
public debt, provided enough of it can
be got, and it be medicated with the pro
per ingredients. If by good fortune a
debt be ready at nand, the mod is to be
made o r it. Stretch it and swell it to
the utmoll the items will bear. Allow as
many extra claims as decency will permit.
Assume all the debts of your neighbours:
In a word, get as much debt as can be
raked and scraped together, and when you
have got all you can "advertize" for
'more, and have the debt made as big at
pojfible. being accomplished,
the next will be to make it as perpetual as
pcjfibl*-, and the next t > that, to get it into
r.s feiv bands as pofftbls. The more cf
feilually to bring this about, modify the
debt, complicate it, divide it, Subdivide it,
XubtraCt it, pollpouc it, let there be one
By P. FRENEAU: Webnesdays, { Saturdays, at Dollars per annum.
W E D N E S D A Y, July 4, 179 2
third of two thirds, and two thirds of one
hird, and two thirds of two thirds; iet
there be three per cents, and four per
cents, and iix per cents, and present fix
per cents, and future fix per cents. Tl
be b ie', let the whole be such a mydery
that a few only can understand it ; andle;
ail poffi'ilc opportunities and informations
rail in the way of these few, to clinch thei
advantages over the many.
VII ft mult not be forgotten that the
members of the legislative body are to have
a deep (lake in the game. Thi3 is an es
sential point, and happily is attended with
no difficulty. A (uffic : ent number, pro
perly disposed, can alternately legislate
and speculate, and Speculate and legislate,
and buy and fell, and fell and buy, until a
due portion of the property of their con
ftituents has pasTed into their hands to
give them an inter -fl againd their condi
tuents, and to ensure the part they are to
act. All this however mud be carried on
under cover of the closest secrecy ; and it
is particularly lucky that dealings in p?-
per admit of more fecrecythan any other.
Should a discovery take place, the whole
plan may be blown up.
VIII. The ways in which agreat debt,
so conltituted and applied, will contribute
to the ultimate end in view, are both nu
merous and obvious. I. The favour',!:
few, thus possessed of it, whether within
or without the government, will fel the
(launched fealty to it, and will gothrough
thick and thin to iupport it in all its op
preffions and usurpations. 2. Their mo
ney wi 1 give them confequtncc and influ
ence, even among those who have been
tricked out of it. 3. They will be the
readied materials that can be found for an
hereditarv aritho? l *?—ic order, v/her.ever
matters are ripe for one. 4. A great debt
will require great taxes, great taxes many
taxgatherers & other officers: & all officers
are auxiliaries of power. 5. Heavy taxes
may produce discontents ; these may
threaten relidance ; and in proportion to
this danger will be the pretencc for a
/latiding army to repel it. 6. A (landing
army in its turn will increase the moral
force of the government by means of its
appointments, and give it physical force
by means of the sword ; thus doubly for
warding the main object.
rro Is continued in our ti:xt.~\
Philad. June 30.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE
Mr. Frf.neau,
AS a fubferiber and well-wither to the
National Gazette, I take the liber
ty of advising you again it employing much
of your paper in replying to the court
paragraphs, which appear in the Gazette
of the United States. There needs no
second Daniel to interpret for that paper.
A paragraph in favour of the exdfe can
easily be traced to a gentleman who holds
a pod under that -virtuous system in Balti
'T-.ore. The eulogiums on the frme fyl
tern, in the Pittfbnrgh Gazette, bespeak
their author in every line ; the e flays in
favour of perpetual debt flow from the
brokers and their friends—the diigud
fuladulatory incense is applied to the a'i
miniflration, not to the conflituticn ; for
these are different thin s, rs times go.
To prevent abuses of novver, and filcnt
encroachments upon the liberties of the
people, I would recommend that societies
(hould be formed in every county of the
United States upon similar plans with the
following, which I have extracted from a
London publication, and now fend for in
fsrtion in your paper,
Outline of the Society, lately formed in Lon
don for the dfcujjton of Political Know
ledge. called
"THE FRIENDS CF THE PEOPLE.
Declaration. " Considering that ignor
ance, forgetfulnefs, or contempt of the
rights of men, are the l<;!e caufce < s pub-
lie grievances, and the corruption of gov
ernments ; this society formed for the pur
pose of inveltigating and aflerting those
rights, and of uniting cur eft irts, with
3th js of our fellow citiz:ns, for correct
ing national abuses, and restraining unne
ccf*-;ry and exorbitant taxation, do hereby
declo.; s.
I ft. That the great end of civil fo
eie.y is general hsppinefs.
2:'. That no form of government is
gocaany further than it (ecures that ob
ject.
•5.1. That all civil and political authori
ty is derived from the people
4th That equal adlive citizenship, is
the unalienable right of all men —minors,
cru '.inais, and insane perfors excepted
ith. That the exercise of that right in
appointing an adequate representative
government, is the wisest device of hu
man policy, and the only security of nati
onal freedom.
" We do also further declare, that we
arc wearied with the infignificant and tin
meaning names of whig and tory, and of
min'iterial and opposition paities.
1 Too often deceived, as we have been,
'"■y both, we can no longer imp icitiy con
'"•de in ei her, We vjill think for onr
felves ; we will study our own rights ; and
■ve leave to the inns and outs, all that
idle quibb'e of debate which serves no
other purpose than to confufe the nation,
and to hold it alternately the prey of court
and party intrigues.
'• We have beheld corruption generat
ed upon corruption, under the auspices of
eveiy administration, from whence wc
have a right to infer, that some radical
deft£t exists in the fyllem of government,
nf p JJ AJJJ
the united efforts of the nation.
" We have seen taxes multiplied upon
taxes, for purposes unknown to us, at the
mere will and pleasure of the party that
was in power : and we have seen Parlia
ment refufe to know the cause for which
such tnxes were voted. Thus held in the
dark by every part in the government ;
our money t ken from us without
afligning a caule, and ourselves continually
deceived in the lffue, we have learned
from experience, the neceflity of examin
ing our own rights, and attending to our
own interest.
" We arc told that we have a conflitu
tion ; if it permits thele abuses, it is ei
ther not a gooc'. one, or good only in part,
and defective in its principles, construc
tion and effects. The continual applause
that is bejlo-wed upon it by pi act men and
benfioncrs, govlrnmcnt contractors, court ex
bettants, and the hired Editors of pros
tituted Ne \ s Papers . has jyftb exci
!e.: 01:" jufpicion, either of its excellence, or its
■:.ij!cnce itmaybeg;-od for them, and
not for us ; as we are no longer to be a
mused with a name or a phantom, we will
apply our enquiries to the fadt.
" We contemplate with pleasure the
progress which this nation, and mankind
in gene, al, are now making in the hither
to myfteriou; feience of government. We
lee a spirit of cajin rational enquiry ari
iing and diffufing itfelf among all orders of
people, of a nature totally different from
the tumultuous malevolence of party, and
the artful policy of llatelmen.
" We are desirous, therefore, of unit
ing with several societies already formed
in various parts of the nation, the promot
ing-an enquiry into, and asserting the na
tural and civil rights of the people.
" We call upon our fellow citi
zens OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS, TO INSTI
TUTE similar Societies, for the
samp, great purpose, and we recom
mend a general corrcfponaence with each
other, and with the society for conftitn
tional information at London, as the best
meats of cementing the common union,
and 9 c!ire£t!ng with greater energy, our
un el efforts to the fame common ob
je,^"
Numb. 71.
THE Marquis tie la F.-.yttU,it is gene
rally believed, together with all the friends
of the French revolution, exerted their
utmost endeavours to nx the 4th of July
(the well known anniversary of American
Independence; for ratifying the constitu
tion of France. It happened; however,
that it was impossible to bring the great
work to a focus sooner than the 14th of
the fame month, a day which has been
and will ever be memorable and celebrated
over Europe. Surely it ought not to be
less noticed in the United States. The
people of America will certainly make
some preparations for celebrating that
day : indeed, it is the next in our ca
lendar to the anniversary of our own
emancipation from arbitrary power and
oppression.
If societies were formed for instructing
the people in their natural and political
rights, the 14th day of July would be ;\
n-ood time for annual meetings of those
Societies, and they would wall deserve the
fame title of that established in London,
'•THE FRIENDS OF THE PEOPLE." By
such measures as these we wouid always
be safe from the encroachments of any
administration whatsoever.
W. T.
FOREIGN NEW?.
LONDON, May 4.
The prince of Hesse Cassel, whose ar
my is said lately to have astonished his
highnefs, by pre fuming to make a demand
of war pay, when likely to De employed in
hostilities, is one of the mod arbitrary
princes of Germany. His dominions are
only ;cc n,; !c-in breadth, but f;. vc'! -
pled, as to enable him to raise 10,000
men without detaching either artificers,
or those employed in agriculture, from
their respective avocations. This prince
was, till a short time since, in the receipt
of a considerable subsidy for troops hired
to Great Britain. Ere long it is proba
ble, a traffic, so ignominious to the dealer
and those who serve, will experience an al
ternation in favour of those wretched peo
ple, who have hitherto submitted to the
intolerable yoke of an unnatural, and, in
this instance, base surrender of their rights
and dignity.
The last letters from Paris advise, that
translations of the constitutional code of
France have been made and published at
the public expence, in the Italian, Spa
nish, and German languages, and are
bought up with the greatest avidity by the
foreigners in that city; this is the revenge
taken by the French nation, on the de!
pots who formed the preposterous project
of oversetting the constitution that has re
llored, or rather established their free
dom.
Berlin, April 20.—Such preparation
are now making, as plainly indica- e tli:;
part of our troops will be on the march
All the smiths, wheelwrights, & people
employed on similar occasions, work night
and day. The order was renewed yes
terday, which prohibits the admission of
my foreigners who have been in the French
service. The officers have orders to mak
the flri&ett enquiries to prevent faftici:,
people from mixing with our troops.
Vienna, April 15th. A body of
troops, under the command of Gen. Wal
lis, is marching into Lower Austria,
attended by 21 field pieces, 6 pounders
two 12 pounders, and two mortars ; 24.
battalions of infantry, and 14 divisions t:
cavalry, in all 4c, 830 men and attended
by 84 pie 's of artillery, fix pounderj,
and 12 mortars, are oil the route for the
Netherlands.
Paris, April 25. The French grand
army has received positive orders to march
in several divifior.s to different posts on the
frontiers ; precautions have been taken
that all the troops may be ready ct the
fame time to the ; thefir ft military operations of France are to be
directed again ft the ele&orates of Treves
and Mayence, under the Marquis de la Fay
ette. Melancholy accounts from Nifmes,
and other interior parts of France, of the
wanton deftrttflion of property by a band of
ruiSai , supposed tobe attached to and in
fligated by the popi!h party. —M. Semon
ville, minister for foreign affairs to the court
of Turin, had been arrefled on his way
thither by order of the king of Sardinia It
seems M. Semonville is disagreeable to that
court 0:1 account of his Jacobin principles,
and another ambaftador is formally demand
ed in his stead.
The Secretary cf the Legation, howe
ver, has received express orders to remon
flrate on this fubjeft to the court of Sardi
nia, and, lit. To infill on the revocation of
the orders given by the Sardinian govern
ment for the arreltation of M. de Semon
v.lle. 2d. To demand an explanation
within 24 hours. 3d. To go to M. de Se
monville, and to present him to his Sardi
nian Majesty. 4th. If the court of Turin
should not observe the laws of good neigh
bourhood, M. Semonville is to withdraw
himfelffrom Turin and to accompany the
French Minifies to Genoa.
Coblcntz, April 19. Yefterdaya mefTen
o;er arrived from, M.Dumourier,the French
Minister, with dispatches to our elector,
requiring him to give an immediate and ca
tegorical answer to thequeftion, " Whe
ther the elector does not acknowledge the
present conflitution as the true and only
conftitutior, of France, or not ?" This ques
tion isafked with a threat, that if the elec
tor does not acknowledge the present con
flitution of France, that the nation will
oblige him to do it. The fame meflage was
sent to Mentz ; and in consequence, couri
ers have been foht to two great powers.
Ley den, Api il xi. Tiie Stadthoider party
here are much displeased with the Englifii
court, for refuting to inform them whe
ther they mean to take any part in the con
stitutional disputes or not. The old patri
otic party are ready for a revolution ; their
manifefto is ready drawn ; they have mo
ney banked, and their correfpondcnce with
the patriots of Brabant is avowed ; and yet
with the knowledge of all this no llep is ta
ken againfl them. The government trem
bles, and contents itfelf with impotent re
monflrances. A general amnesty has been
published. The prerogatives of the Stadt
liokler have been voluntarily diminished.
Orange cockades, shoe-strings, and all ex
terior marks of party on both fides have been
prohibited ; but nothing has availed to re
concile the difcoatented party to the court.
A small anecdote will ffaew to what height
party spirit runs. It is the custom for the
niinifters to pray for the Stadthoider and
his family. —The inhabitants of Heufden,
as often as the minister began his prayer,
fnewed their difTatisfa&ion by coughing,
fpittinjr, blowing the nose, and scraping with
their feet, so that a word of the prayer could
not be heard in the church, however it
might ascend to heaven. The regency pub
lished an edict, forbidding all coughing,
spitting, and blowing o± nofesduring divine
Service. The citizens were peaceable, but
from that day the churches have been de
serted.
Stockholm, April 6. Orders have been at
last sent to Helfingbourg not to flop travel
lers in future, and to fuffer all those who
have been Hopped to proceed on their way;
their number amounts to upwards of sixty.
April 20. Notwithftandingthedifcontent
Which reigned among one part of the na
tion at the conciufion of the diet of Gefle.
the attempt on the person of the king has
contributed more to reconcile those with
the rosal authority, who were adverse toit,
than to forward the views of the conspira
tors. Of this the young king and the re
gent have received a proof, by a deputation
which waited on them the day before yes
terday, to allure those princes of the loyal
ty and attachment of the four orders of the
diftr'£t of Stockholm, and to teftify their
grief at the event which had plunged Swe
den in sorrow, &c. This deputation ha
ving at its head Mr. Ugglas, as governor or
chief of the diftrifl, was coaipofed. of nine
deputies of the nobility, four of the clergy,
five of the citizens, and seven of the order
ofpeafants. Among the firft were some
noblemen who were the chief opponents of
the court; the nine deputies were Count
de Brake, Count A. Lcwenhaupt: the firft
jrentleman of the chamber, Fabeau Wrede;
the Baron Charles de Geer : the Chamber
lain, Lieut. Gen. Maurice Kingfporre ; the
Gentleman of the Court. Lejonmark ; the
Vice-President, Stierngranat: the Counsel
lor of the Mines, Febure; and the countel
lor of the Chamber, Lagerkeim.
Aukarftrom has been found guilty and
sentence of death will probably be pafled
on him in the cor.rfe of the week.
London, May w A letter from an Fngnili
gentleman at Peterfburgh, gives a very cu
rious account of the present slate of thft
court. The muftler of the king of Sweden
made a iirong impreffton on the empress;
but it gave such an alarm to the Arch-duke,
as was perceptible to every one. He talk
ed publicly of plans being formed to carry
him off; and in a ronverlation with her ma
iefty, he fpolJfe in the raoft unnieaftired
"terra", deporting himfelf, fays the letter,
" neither as a son, nor as a fubjeft." The
health of the Empress is not merely on the
decline. There is evidently a thorough
breakup of her conftitutiou. Her death,
though in will make no change in the abject
condition of the people, will be the ifira of
a material change i 1 the empire, for it is
iikely to be divided.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
EXCISE LAW.
y7* QUAL liberty is the great boast of the
Hi citizens of Pennsylvania, but it is not
exemplified in the operation ot two laws
now existing withiii this commonwealth —
The one prohibiting the irrational and
cruel amusement of horfe-racing —The
other restricting the indultrious farmer
from making the belt advantage of proper
ty acquired by his own industry. As the
tirft interferes with theplcafures ot our apes
of Bi itii'h nobility, we fee it violated wiih
impunity : But the farmer ever complain
ing of the injury and insult of ail odiousEx
cife Law, he is at once stigmatized as an
enemy to government, who ought to be
punilhed for not submitting quietly to the
laws of his country. —Thele diftinftions
and partialities among citizens cannot long
continue.
Since the glorious and honorable peace
of 1783, artifice and deception has effected
one revolution in favour of the few —Ano-
ther revolution mult and will be brought
about in favor of the people.
June 30. BRUTUS.
For the National Gazette.
BANK.
AS the public disposition to examine the
constitutionality of the bank is evident
ly increasing, and recent attempts have been
made by the interested, to throw dust into
peoples' eyes, on this fubjeft ; it be
proper to fuperadd to the many folic! objec
tion; which have been enforced against it,
the following very serious ones, which I
have several times heard in conversation,
and have not yet seen in print. If I have
rightly comprehended them, they stand
thus :
1. Congress make the bank. The bank,
by the authority of Congress can create of
fices and affix salaries, payable too in part out
of monies of the United States. Every member
of Congress can make himfelf a member oi
the bank ; many have done so. As mem
bers of the bank, members of Congress can
vote for directors ; they can be voted for,
and can vote for themlelves to be directors:
some members of Congress are directors.
As direitors, they can receive salaries ; as
itockholders they can vote salaries to them
felvcs as directors, salaries in like mannei
payable in par tout of the monies of the UmtcdStates.
They can, as directors, vote for the crea
tion of offices ; they can vote for the ap
pointment and increase of salaries, iu\\ pay
able in part out of the money of the United States :
they can vote for officers to enjoy these
emoluments ; they can be voted, and cat
vote for themselves, to fill the offices, and
to enjoy the emoluments. —Such is the
Constitution of the bank—Now for the
Constitution of the United States. —"No
senator or representative {hall, during the
time for which he was elected, be appoint
ed to any civil office under the authority of
the United States, which fhail have been
created, or the emoluments whereof (hall
have been increased during such time, and
no person holding any office under the United
States, ihall be a member of either house
during his continuance in office." Let the
reader consult the spirit and reason of this
reftri&ion, and then the inference may be
left to himfelf.
2. Two millions of the bank-flock is the
money of the United States. As far as this
goes, the offices and salaries for the ma
nagement of it may be conlidered as ftriftly
offices and salaries of the United States :
as much so as those of a commifiioner of
loans or a receiver of taxes. If the stock
and income of the bank belonged wholly to
the United States, the cafe would be difem
barrafled, and the unconflitutionality felf
evident.
3. The Constitution of the United States
is founded on the efiential principle ps na
tural right and political liberty, that those
who are members of a society, and to be
bound by its laws and acts, Ihould have a
voice in its laws and aits. The public is
made a member of the bank. It is bound
by the laws and acts of the bank. Yet what
is allowed in all cases to every freeman is
denied, in this cafe, to the whole body of
freemen. They are all bound by laws,
ordinances, and regulations, in which they
have had no voice, to which they never
give their consent by themselves or their
proxies.
4. It is a principle of the Constitution, a
principle sacred in it (elf, that taxation and
representation go together. Those who
contribute money {hould have a vote in the
management of the common stock. Every
other 'stockholder in the bank, including bo
dies politic and corporate, has rotes in a
certain ratio to his contribution. The peo
ple of the union who are taxed to the
amount of one fourth of the whole contri
bution, are not represented by a {ingle Ivote.
But it was not convenient nor prudent to
allow the public a right ot repreient: tion.
Is it convenient or prudent to trample c.
the eli'ential principles of the Constitution
But the Britiih government lias no vote
in the bank of England.—Xsither has it any
Hock Co enti:!i it to a vote. If we are for
»ver* measure to look for a model in a fo
-eign monarchy, why violate republican
jrinciples, where the model itfelf does not ?
Why make the things we copy inconsistent
with themselves, as well as with our Gon
[titution ?
Account fiated between the United. States, and the
Bank.
The Bank, Dr. Dols.
To 60 per cent, value added to
Boco,ooo flock - - 4,800,c00
Debits to be hereafter liquidated,
To contingent advantages from em
ptying the public treasury into the
bank when run upon
To do. —do. from t rant ast ing the
public debt -
To do.—do- from agency in bills of
exchange for foreign inu-reft
To do. —do. from influence on mo.
ney measures of Congress through
agency of diredlor-membars of
Congress -
To do.—do. from influence on
state measures by branches ofdif
count and depolit
To loss to the United States from
the banilhment or excluiion of—
millions of specie
The Bank, Cr.
3y privilege granted to the Secre
tary of the Treasury to infpeil
its books - - coo,ooo
Sy abatement of 1 per cent, inter
est, fay for one year on 523,000
dollars - 5,230
5,230
Balance due - - 4,794.77°
[Errors excepted] 4,800,000
July 2, 1792.
Extraßs from the Quebec Gazette.
Quebec, May, 24. Despotic governments
ire only upheld by the care they take to
liaintain a tyrannical inequality among
:heir fubjefts ; and by force and cunning
preventing the greater number, which
:hey difdainfully term populace, from ac
quiring that knowledge, which would free
:hemfrom blind credulity and mental fla
/ery —And the political reason why such
governments do ib, is, because an ignorant
jeople are alwaysinfenfible to perfonalfub
eftion, and fuller themselves to be plun
dered without refidance ; wherefore a
people who, like the Canadians, have ac
quired the liberty to think and ast for their
awn welfare, ought to inform themselves
in every thing, in order to preserve that
liberty* and to reap the fruits of it, so es
sential to the happiness of mankind.
Monday last, a boat going from Quebec
ro Orleans, being overloaded and the wind
blowing hard, overset and funk, and ten
persons out of twelve were unfortunately
drowned. Among the number was the
much esteemed Mr.Hubert, rector of Que
bec.—On this occasion an old seaman gives
:he following advice to pilots and others,
who conduit undecked boats.—" 1. Re
duce the size of your fails. I have gene
rally remarked that they are greatly dif
jroportioned in this refpeft to the size of
, our veflels. 2. By no means ballast your
noats with stone, iron, or such like matter.
Always keep on board, and which you
nay flow away under your benches, a
ronvenient number of caiks of 20 gallons
;ach, so as when filled with water, to ena
ble your boat to be ftiff and carry fail.—
vVitli this precaution, if a sudden flaw of
.vind should upset the boat, file will float
,vith the casks, and the persons 011 board
nay save their lives; and even one such
:a(k will be fuflicient to save the life of a
nan. If the ballafl be of stone, the con
equence is, that when overturned, flie
liuft go down with all on board. 4. Ano
her advantage arises from water-cask bal
lafl, which is, that when you are becalm
ed, you can discharge the water from the
:aiks overboard, and have a light veflel to
row: whereas if you carry itrme ballast,
nndare long becalmed, and vviihtohavea
light veflel for conveniency of rowing,
you by throwing it overboard rer.der
the boat unfit for carrying fail when a
frefh breeze springs lip, and by this
means are unable to reach the shore. 5.
Always keep a funnel 011 board for filling
your empty caiks. C. Your boat, when
water ballasted, fails much more lively,
especially in rough water, than when bal
lasted with stone."
A citizen of this province has difcover
cd a method of refining maple sugar in
[nth a manner r.scotto drier from the belt
Weft-India sugar imported from England,
as well for its lade a; its whiteness. He
is willing publicly or privately to submit
proofs of his operation to the government.
He flatters hiuifelf .that, the object will be
taken into confederation, from which he
hopes for legal recompence.
PUBLIC OPINION IN FRANCE
A judicious view, from concurrent ac
counts founded on liu-I-;, wiil belt er.aMe
an impartial obfcrver to judge rightly of
the present iituation, and future event of
t'.ie French Revolution. —Let us, in the
firft place, calt a contemplative view on
the fittfatiou of mindi ill France. We may
diftingnifii five clafes of citizens of differ
ent sentiments. In one are all the invete
rate enemies of the revolution, a'l there
bels driven from Coblentz, srd all the fa
natical priests, enemies to liberty and the
profperity of man. This insane band have
faith in the return of despotism, of the re
eftablifliment of the clergy,' and of the par
liaments ; but their chiefs who acknow
ledge that the total return of the ancient
system is importable, are ambitions only of
the re-eftabiiftiment of the ncllefse and tie
adoption of a conftitnticn nearly confcrm
able to that of England.—Doubtkfs the
emigrated princes do not think of re-efla
blilhingthe parliaments, whose pride and
power they always dreaded, any more
than the order of the clergy, a set of men
who had hardly the virtue of hypocrisy,
and who had for ages lorded it over the
nobl'ffe, and whose ill-gotten treasures are
become neceflarv to all parties to restore
the finances and pay the expenses of the
war. A second class who, contraftec! with
the firft, is composed of citizens, who
would have a government, in every
fpeft, republican; but they are very final®
in number. They do not form a party;
ill they can do is to frame vows. There
is a third class who alone compose two
thirds of the citizens of the kingdom ; it is
thai of the zealous patriots, true friends
of liberty and equality. Their sentiments
are upon a level with the revolution, and
they will support it at the risque of their
lives ; but it is to be confefled that there
are some among them troublesome,
lant and intolerant. A fourth class is x\wT
of the citizens of moderate character and
probity. Their number is great, their in
tentions are pure, and they are for the
ccnftitution, but their principal wiih is
tranquility. Weak and timid, the very
appearance of trouble alarms them : the
enemies of the country avail themselves
of their pusillanimous fears to separate
them from the zealous patriots : they in
cefTantly present to their view theabyfs of
anarchy half open ; they tell them that
[here exists a republican faction who wish
to overturn France, and thatagainft them
:he good citizens ought to unite. These
weak and credulous men are the dupes of
"uch perfidious insinuations. They look
lpon the best citizens as factious, and from
:heirlove of goodnefsand peace unite with
hose who only wear the mask of modera
:ion. The last class is the molt dangerous
jf all: it is composed of a great number
,vho lose by the revolution : but more ef
entially of an infinite number of great pro
srietors of lands, of rich merchants, in
ine, of men opulent and proud who cannot
~uffer an equality, who regret the defiruc
:ion of a nobility to which they aspired;
who finding themselves advantageoudy
placed in the amphitheatre of social fitua
:ions, do not like having their feats remo
ved ; who detefl: the new constitution,
:he mother of equality, but would have
Dne to render sacred the aflumed rights of
iriftocracy. This is the true iitur.tion of
minds in France.
Society for ejlablijhing ufeful Manufactures.
AT a meeting of the directors of the society for
establishing ufeful mar.ufa&ures, held at New-
Ark, on Friday the eighteenth day of May,
1792, at which time was palled the following
SUPPLEMENT to an ordinance, entitled " An
ordinance for securing the pun&ual payment of
the monies due on the fubferiptions to the soci
ety for eftablilhing ufeful manufactures. **
WHEREAS by the third fe&ion of the ordi
nance, entitled " An ordinance for fecur
ng the punctual payment of the monies due on
:he fubferiptions to the society for eftablifliing
ifeful manufactures," it is ordained, that if any
"übfciiber or his afligns, (hall negleCY to pay the
econd. third or fourth payment of his, her or their
■efpeCtive fubferiptions for the space of three days
ifcer the expiration of the time limited by the
aw of incorporation for the said payments chat is
o fay, the second payment, on the thirteenth day
;f July. 1792 : that then and in that cafe, all and
:very fliare or shares, of such person or petfons so
legleCting to make such payments as afurefaid,
and the monies by them previously paid, shall be
hifeited, and forever thereafter veiled in the said
iireCtors and their hiccelTors for the common be
leflt of the said f ciety.
And whereas circumstances render it inexpedi
ent to exact full payment of the second inlialment
in the faiu thirteenth day of July next, or within
:hrce days thereafter.
Be it therefore ordained, by the deputy Gover
nor and directors of the society for ciiablifhing
afeful manufacture?, that if the said second pay
ment shall be made in manner following, that is
to fay, one equal third part thereof, on or befote
:he thirteenth day of August next, qne other e
]ual third part the reef on or before the thirteenth
Jay of September next, and one other equal third
part thereof, on or before the thirteenth day of
O&ober next, with lawful interefl computed there
in from tile lYui ti irt-.enthday of July next, that
then and in such cafe, the said penalty men ioned
in the said legion, lhn'l not be exaCted, any thin;,
in the laid ordinance to the contrary notwithlland-,_
i"g>
A. MERCER, Deputy Governor.
XxtraCi from the Minutes,
JAMES CRIFFITHS, Clk.
-K- * -X- Three handsome Edit'ons of the Laws of
the United Statesforfale at this office (No 209 Mar
het Street)in,'ct'ioand Octavo, either full or half
bound.—N. B The Laws of the lajl Scjjion, in Oc
tavo only, may be had JcpAratc, pr.ee three eights/!
of a dollar.PHILADELPHIA.
July 4, [792.
The Bank of the United States has noti
fied the stock-holders that the following
dividend, from the commencement of the
inltitution to July ift. will be paid after
the 10th inft.—For each share completed
in the month of March, 12 dollars ; tor do.
in the month of April, to dollars 6; cents;
for do. in the month of May, 9 dollars 33
cents ; for each half share, 8 dollars.
Considerable damage was done by a par
ty of Indians at and round the town of
Frankfort, in Kentucky, about the middle
of May. They were pursued over the
Ohio by a party of volunteers, who found
the savages too strong to be attacked, and
returned without doing any thing.
The foundation of an academy is now
laying in the town of Newark, N. Jersey.
This building, itisfaid, will, when fini(hed,
be at least equal to any edilice for this pur
pose in America.
Captain M'Donald, of the (hip Trelaw
itey Planter, who experienced such degra
ding and inhuman treatment from die cap
tain of a Spani P.i man of war in August 1790,
on his paflage from Jamaica to England, has
had the fatisfa&'on to receive official infor
mation, that lince his return to Spain a
court martial has been held over the Spanifli
captain, by order of the court of Spain, and
that he wasfentenced to imprisonment, and
then to be difmifl'ed the service.
Some misunderstandings have taken place
at the' Cape of Good Hope between a Bri
tish and American captain, on account of a
seaman taken from the latter, by the British
captain ; notwithstanding he was certified
to be an American. It is fa : d the Ameri
can veflels have recently been deprived of
many of their seamen under various arbitra
ry pretences in that port.
We hear that the distilling business is in
so flourifhing a way of late, that for the
want of a fufficient quantity of new cop
per, the smiths are making use of old cop
per kettles for stills. [Caz. U. S.]
A complete abolition of the African (lave
trade seems an article in a fair way of be
ing universally assented to by the maritime
nations of Europe; and may bejuftlycon
fidered as one of the benign effeils of that
philanthropic philosophy, v. liofe fun is rifin"
npon mankind. It may be observed, how
ever, that fanaticifm has been for some
time pait attempting to alfume to itfelf the
honour due to philosophy, and would ar
rogate {from the heated exertions of a mo
ment) what has resulted in this refpeit,
from an enlightened reason, gradually cul
tivated and propagated by the few, who for
a century or two pall, have dared to think
for tiienifelves, in spite of persecution and
the fhafts of bigotted malevolence.
A dead man was lately discovered in Lan
caster county, lying in the woods, almofi
pu trifled. In his pockets were found three
silver dollars and a quarter. His flioe and
knee buckles (of lilver) were marked S.I.
The question has been carried in the Bri
tifli House of Commons, that the Africar
slave trade, in British bottoms, fliall cease
afterjanuary ift, 1796.
A London paper announces the death oi
lord Sandwich, 011 or about the last of
April.
Part of a uianifefto appears in the Lon
don prints, addrefled from the people ol
the Belgic States and those of Liege, united,
to all the people? of the earth. — They com
plain much of the tyranny and oppression;
of the house of Auflria ; the crimes, extor
tions, and cruelty of the prcfent Prince Bi
fliop of Liege, and conclude with aflertinp
their determination to throw off all allegi
ance to the House of Austria ; and decla
ring the Prince Bishop a perjured traitor,
the author of every tile blacked crime : for
reparation of which they swear to purfuc
him and his abettors, until justice fhull have
been done for their crimes.
It is mentioned infome European letters
that the French emigrant princes have hac
annonnced to them the fpeedv afliftance of
twenty thousand Ruffians and Tartars, who
were to embark as foun as thefeafon would
admit —Ruffians and Tartars have longfer
ved as a scarecrow to the cause of liberty —
something of this may be recollected in the
time of the American war—" Drink my
tea, boys, and write 0:1 my stamped paper,
(laid John Bull) or I have a Ruffian bear in
the woods that will come and swallow you
up like plumb-puddings."
A debate took place in the English House
of Commons on the 30th of April, relative
to a parliamentary reform. Mefi'rs. Grey,
\ Pitt, F0.,-, and Bulk' were the principal
fpeakerson this occafton. In the course of
the debate Mr. Paine and his pamphlets on
the Rights of Man were brought into view.
Mr. Fox coniidered them as not tending to
a reform,!but to a total .alteration of the
British government & constitution, and that
" Mr. Paine's production was a libel 011 the
government." Mr. Burke pronounced
paine's pamphlet " a libel of the molt infa
mous kind againlt the British constitution, and
that the clubs and fociettel who recom
mended it to be read by the people, were
\lvj avowed enemies o( tile constitution," &c.
It isfoinewHatfurpriling that both Fox and
Burke iliould be ignorant that Mr. Paine is
their countryman, and only a citizen of
America. Fox expressly calls him a na
tive of America; and Burke flyles him " a
stranger (which in one fen(e is true) who
knows just enough of all countries to con
fufe anddiftract all, without being of the
least use 10 any.'' Mr.Fox calls the Rights
of Man a libel; "but it will be remember
ed that truth itfelf may be a libel in Eng
land."
La(l week, failed in a vefll 1 from this port for
England, Mr. Thomas Pinchney, Minsfter Ple
nipotentiary from the United States to the court
of Great Britain.
On Sunday afternoon last a violent squall
sf wind from W.N. W. and N.W. did con
iderable damage in this city and port. Se
veral fqtiare rigged vessels were driven from
:heir moorings at the wharves, but were
i'ortuftately secured from injury by anchor
ng in the stream, except an English brig,
tvjbich grounded on the bar opposite the
ower part of the town, and the (hip Juno,
lately from Havre de Grace, which Coon af
:er breaking fro:n her moorings overset,
and drifting along the island, got aground
ibout a mile below the town, where (he now
lays on her beam ends, and is supposed to
liave loft moll of her spars and rigging.
Several small craft and boats were also
nuch damaged, but we are happy to hear
:hat no lives were loft, altho' the gale Iwas
. ery severe, and came on so suddenly that
t was almort impollible toefcape its fury.
In the city some chimnies and parts of
jrick walls were blown down ; the roof of
l store below the Bird-in-Hand wharf was
•emoved several inches from its place and
arge limbs torn from many trees in different
jarts of the town.
" It is said to be in agitation, immediate
y on the arrival of official accounts of open
loflilities between the patriots of France
md their enemies, to set on foot a plan for
•ailing a body of American volunteers, to
:mbark as soon as poflible for France. The
dea was not suggested from a doubt that
:he French freemen are not able to cope
ivith their flavifli enemies; or that they
.vanted any thing to stimulate them toglo
"ious conquest ; but merely to evince the
gratitude of Americans ; and once more to
ilingie their blood with those of their allies,
n defence of the rights of human nature,
should the idea be carried into elfeft, there
s not a doubt that the government of the
Jnited States, and the individualftates, will
liake ample provision for the support and
ranfportation of these patriot volunteers,
rile legislature of Mailaciiufetts now in
"ellion, would do themselves immortal ho
lour by being the fit ft to provide, on theii
>art, in cafe the project fncceedcd, for those
.vho would go from this state."
\Bofon Centincl.
The Salem Gazette contains a length)
latement of a conversation and corref
>ondence between Capt. SlMs, of the fliif
'•'ame, of Philadelphia, bound to India, and
Japt. Bligtii, of liis Britannic majesty':
hip Providence, of 20 guns, at Table-Bay, or
:he coajl of Africa, '111 December laft.—lll this
latement Capt. Sims complains of the ill
:reatnient he fuffered from Capt. Bligth.
n secreting and protesting one of hisfea
Tien, who had entered at Philadelphia, and
:alcen the oath of allegiance to the Unitec
states', and had sworn that he was a citizen
:hereof—but who, expecting punifhmenl
or being drunk and abtifing his captain,
lad fought an asylum on board the Provi
lence, on pretence that he was a BritiJ),
übject. Though Capt. Sims' cor.duct was
;enteel and manly—although he produced
:o Capt. B. the dath the fellow had taker
md fubferibed—proved that he was conii
lerably in debt to the ship—and that his
letention would weaken and distress the
hip's crew—yet Capt. B. not only refufed
lelivering him up, but sent his lieut. or
joard the Fame, and, in the absence of the
:aptnin, plundered it of the fellow's chefl
—and ftolc two fiver tablefpcons ; and during
:he time threatened to cut the Fame':
Halt, by the board, if certain pretended
.'.'ages were not paid the feanian—the iient.
at the fame time endeavoring to entice the
seamen to quit the Fame and enter or
Joard the Providence. Capt. Bligth's con
duct iw this tranfaftion appears to be high
landed and uugentlemanhke — and it is ho-
Jed the affair will meet with early atten
■oll from the Supreme Executive of the Un:tei
'i'ates —as Capt. Crowinjhield t who brought
:he above accounts, informs, that Capt.
Smith, of this town, fuffered (imilar treat
ment at the Cape of Good-Hope—and a;
:he conlul of the United States, at Liver
)ool, has complained to the Secretary oi
itate of like conduct at that port.
\_BcJlcn Cent.
The following is the speech of M. Dti
mourier, the French miniller of war, deli
vered at the Jacobine Club, just after hi.
appointment:
*' All my time and attention will hence
forth be devoted to fulfil the will of the na
tion, and the object of the choice of a con
stitutional king. I (hall carry on foreign
negociation with the vigour that becomes
a nation ; and they dial! (hortly produce a
lasting peace, or adccilive war, If the lac
ter i; the issue, [ (hall lay dawn my pen.
andjoin the <:rmy to triumph or die free
vvitli my brothers.
The weight of the duty I have underta
ken is immense ; aflift me with your ad
vice. Communicate tome here, and thro ;
die channel of the public prints, truths,
even severe truths ; but do not readily cre
dit those who (hall attempt to misrepresent
my intentions."
That (o much corrupt (peculation and avari
cious jobbing diould have polluted die infant
charatler of our government is a circumdance
truly mortifying to its real fleady republican
friends. The conduct of those whose integrity
and fidelity have yielded to the allurements of
diflionorable gain, is the more unpardonable anc
odious, when compared with the purity, thedif
interef?cdnefs, and the magnanimity of the ex
ample at the head of the government. Much i:
yet to be hoped fiom the continuance of that il
luflrious example, with the greater reason, as ii
is now enforced by the awakened attention of ;
virtuous and enlightened people, who will noi
fail to didinguifh between the government an<
its abuses, and in lopping off rotten branche:
will (pare the found ones, and dill more care
fully the tree itfelf.
That letters from gentlemen in England dioulc
recommend hereditary monarchy, hereditary
Prelidency, &c. is not wonderful, cor.fiderine
the long-rooted prejudices of that people in fa
vor of lineal regal fucceflion. —If, however, in
flead of England vie read Bojlon, the proposition
will appear a little extravagant,— Vet such doc
trines are propagated, and it is asserted with the
greatest confidence, that " a full magidratc,
whether (lyled king, emperor, or president,
lliould be hereditary to prevent the horrid con
teds that mud be the attendants of renewed elec
tions."— If care be taken to preserve free am 1
uninfluenced cleftions, why fiiould we rcfle£l fc
much upon the good sense gf the people of Ame
rica, or their representatives, as to suppose a Pre.
lident of the United States may not be chosen in
as much peace and quiet as the governor of any
one date ? Render a fird magidrate once heredi
tary, and the experience of hidory (hows that an
order of nobility is a natural consequence,—and
after these an order ofpeafantry, or slaves.
In the gud on Sunday afternoon lad, one ol
the ferry boats of this city was overset within
three hundred yards of the Jerfeylhore. There
were on board nine persons, five men and wo
men, and four small children. Captain Scott,
of Mafluchufetts, who was one of them, by hi:
L-xertions brought them all fafe on (horc: sirs
one of the children, and afterwards fuccedivcly
he others, who in the mean time, with difficult)
had saved themselves from drowning by hanging
io the boat, which supported them, tho' full o
water A boy was illowiu'li by tlx.' ovcr(cttin~
of another boat, which is the only life 101 l tha
we have) et heard of.
'■ The Indians (fays a letter from Knoxville.
of June 2d) are dill troublesome : they attack
ed Judge Campbell on his way from court; then
were four others in his company but all escaped
Two boys have been recently killed about 1:
miles from this place, and a man fired at by foui
Indians, who however was not hurt.—The go
vernor of this territory has been in their towns.
A numerous representation of the chiefs anc
warriors from the lower towns on Cbickamoggr
attended : they now (hew signs of a desire foi
peace,"
A northern paper contradicts the ac
count ill our last of Judge Powell, of Ca
nada, being prisoner at Quebec on a cliargc
of treason. The whole ltory is laid to be ;
fiction.
Captain Daniel Slays, who a few years fi net
made luch havoc in Madachul'ctts, is now con.
fined in prison, in Worceder, for debt. It is in
:imatcd in a Bodon paper, that the general go
vernment is under 110 small obligation to thi.
man for its adoption, advancement, and popu
arity.—This, no doubt, is to be underflood as :
r me qua non :
Of parson, thus, forprcaclungfam'd
Thefextoti reafon'dwell,
Who jujl/y half the merit claimed
EccauJ'e he rang the hell!
A paragraph in a French paper make
mention that the refractory non-juring cler
5'/ 111 France had been arretted by order o.
che government and transported to Italy
the original hot-bed offuperftition and ini
poilure.
Great complaints are ma 'e by the peoplt
of Martinico of a number of negroes biin;
stolen from that island, and carried oft'in ;
I'chooner from Boston, called the Dolphin
Nathaniel Hickman, mailer, and Samue
Skinner, owner, who was with the veliei
and is represented as the infligator and per
petrator of the theft. Information has beer
given of the crime to the tribunal of the ad
miralty at Fort Royal. The American:
are not a little reflected on by the French,
for such unprincipled conduct in one oi
their nation.
French papers are come to hand, from
Cape Francois,till the nth of June. No
material event had then taken place. The
infu'rgents, however, it was ("aid, bad taken
a solemn oath to extirpate the whites by
every means poflible, and a(Tume the sove
reignty of the island.
The Ottoman government, altho, releas
ed from a war with Austria and Ruliia, i
far from being at peace within itfelf. Ma
ny Tachas of distant provinces have revolt
cd. particularly Thnv.r Khar, who By tfitf.
last accounts was marching with an im
mense army to attack Bagdat; several Egyp
tian Beys have alia revolted from the au
thority of the Sultan, ar.d are laying wade
the country. [Lend. Pafer. ]
The master, mate, ftipercargo and fou 1 "
Teamen of the schooner Dolphin, of Boston,
have been committed to the gaol of Savan
nah, Georgia, for kidnapping negroes at
Martinico and felling them at Savannah.
When political reformation is in the hands of
men of desperate fottune and chara&er, the
date may be given over as in a desperate situa
tion. The conversation of the Coffee-houfe
daily convinces us of the truth of Swift's obfer
ration, that in times of party a bee is not a lufer
animal than a blockhead. The life of republican
jovernments is, uninfluenced and pure elections.
None but absolute freeholders, who poflefs an
ibfolute free fee limplc, should vote in these
personal contcfls of ambition, where the prize
is so great. It is better and fafer to disfranchize
Un thousand influenced tenants, than fx a perma
nent and heieditaiy balance of infuence. If this
nfluence becomes fixed in government, thefirft
afiicers will become as hereditary as they were
n Fiance, and the scattered interefls of the (outli
will not be able to combine, or prevail over the
:onfoL'\dated arifocracy of the north. In vain will
aur government be called a free one. if the de
pendent creatures of the landed interest can
avcrpowei the independent free-holders of the
outh. We hope loor. to fee agitated in the
egillative councils the republican doctrine of
ree cleftions. This question
,vill be the tell of republicanism, and if the
"outhern freeholders cannot prevail, we do not
lefitatc to pronounce a separation expedient and
leccllary to the salvation of the fouthcrn intcr
:ft. [N.Yoik Journal]
rhefol'owing addref to the National A[fembly of
France, unanimously agreed to by the Legiflalure
of Virginia, is extractedfrom their Journals of
'79' ■
" WE, the reprcfentativcs of the people of
Virginia, long sympathising with the National
fVffcmbly of France, in their glorious flrugglefor
iberty, avail ourselves of the carlicft opportunity
oprefent, with all the sincerity of fraternal af
eftion, our warmest congratulation on the ef
ablifhmer.t of your new Constitution—a conlli
lution in which every mafculiac feature is por
rayed that could strongly mark it as the legiti
mate offspring of liberty. Indeed from fuchan
illustrious band of patriots and philosophers, we
anticipated nothing less, prelerving as you have
ior.e, with undiminifhed puiity through so many
lucccflive ages, that noble fpiiitofyour ancestors,
which often bade defiance to the antierst con
querors of the world.
" It is impoflible for a nation, in the full en
joyment of liberty, to look with an eye of indif-
Icrence on the fhuggles of another to piocure it.
Upon general principles of philamhropy then we
Felt an anxious solicitude for ihe fuccefsful
ifluc of your labors. But when we carry our
minds back, and review the eventful hillory of
our own country, we arc impelled bv the ftvong
eft additional motives of friendfnip and gratitude,
lo with the National Affcmbly of
Francc.
" We venerate the wisdom that fuggeffed —
we admire the boldness that commenced—we
lpplaud the manly firmnefs that puilued —
we are pleased with the humanity and politic
forbearance that ensured—and we love the virtue
hat atchicved the enterptife. Long may you
:njoy the inestimable blessing which tliis'com
bination of enviable attributes has fecurcd to you,
ind may your example be imiiated, not only by
he reft of Europe, but bv everv enllavcd nation
jpon the face of the globe—til! defpl'tifm, with
ili us host of enemies to human habpinefs and
mprovement, is entirely chafed away."
METROROWGICAL OBSERVATIONS,
June, 1792.
D. II.)\ Bar. 1 '-7 mi, IVtalk.
Monday, 18. 6] 30. 7 67 W• Fair.
21 30. 1} 87 5, W. do.
Tuesday, 19, 6 go. 2 68 S. W Fair.
s 30. 2 87
VedneJ'day, 20. (; 30. 1 69 w.s.v Fair
2 20. 05 8.5 do. do.
Thursday, 21. 6 2;. 8 7 4 IN.NE. Cttudy.
2 2.7. 8 8? do. Rein
Friday,. 22, 6 29. 75 70 N. E. Fair.
2 29. 7&1 8j do.
Saturday, 23. 6 29. ■ 72 Clouds.
2 29. 6j 72 N. Bain.
Sunday, 24. 6 30. 5 67 j N-E. Fair.
e 30. iJ 78 Js.s.E. do.
Monday, 25. < 30. ij 63 Calm. Ra:r..
2 30. 15 72 do. Cloudy.
Tuesday, 26. t 30. 1; • <j8 j.n.S Fair.
I 3°- 'S 1 f 1 Vt ■ do.
Wedncfday, 27. 6 30. 1 67 W. tar-
2 3°. 1 8.1 S. W. do.
Thursday, e3. t 30. o ; o N.W. Fear.
2 50. o 86 3. W. do.
Friday, eg. 6 29. c 74 3. W'. F. ir.
_ 2 ->' £2 d<>. j do.
Sattuday, 30. ( 29. 9 72 n.\V.'>Wj.
2 29. f do- | do.
July I. 6 29. <; 76 S. W. Fair.
2 29. ' qi W. Cloudy.
Monday, 2. ( S5 75 U.' il.iz,y.
- 9 • Fair.
Tuesday, 3. 61 30. 6,5 IlafnT"
21 3°- K 73 Fair.INDEPENDENCE.
REmov'd from Europe's feuds, a hateful scene
( Thank heaven, such waftcs of ocean roli
between)
Wuere tyrant kings in bloody schemes combine,
And each forebojes in tears ) Manis no longer v.me\
Glad we recal the day that bade us firlt
Spurn at their power, and shun their wars accurst j
Pitied and gaff'd no more for England's ulory
Nor made the tag-rag-bob-tail of their story.
Something still wrong in every system lurks.
Something imperfect haunts a!) human works
Wars mult oe hatch'd unthinking men to fleece,
Or we, this day t had been in perfect peace,
Witn douole oolts our Janus temple Ihut,
Nor terror reign'd through each back-woodsman s
hut,
No rattling drums aflaiTd the peasants ear
Nor Indian )elis Jifturb'd our (ad frontier,
Norgallant chiefs*, 'gainst Indian hosts combin'd
Sicap'd from the trap —to leave their tails behind.
Peace to all feuds ! —and come the happier day
When ReafoD»3 fun {ball light us on our way j
When erring man (hall all his RIGH I S retrieve }
No delpots rule them, and no priests deceive j
'Till liicn Columbia !—watch each stretch of
power
Nor ll.ep too soundly at the sleeping hour,
B flattery won, ana lull'd by soothing (trains
S ilenus took his nap—and wak'd in chai..s—
In a loft dream of smooth delusion led
Unthinking Gallia bow'd lier diooping head
To tyrant's yokes—and met such bruises there
As now mud talc? three agss to repair.
Then keep the patha of dear-bought freedon
clear
Nor slavish systems, grant admittance here—
July 3.
Curious Matrimorial advertisement.
\Advert\finifor wives has btcome a common thing
in the E:\glijh N-.wspapen : The following ad
'uertifmert seems, boiue'Ucr, to Le a rtfitiemcv,
upon all that bad prcvioitf.y appeared]
fjTtO such Ladies as are di veiled of the prejudi
i ces of the times, maid* or widows, of luit
abie years, snot exceeding forty); the very hum
bie address of a gentleman, (whether a widower 01
a bachelor can be of no conlequence), refpeftabl)
connected in life, free from bad habits and de
formity, clear of incumbrances and tnoroughly ac
quainted with the world as it goes, whole age i:
from 35 to 45, and wh fe fortune will certain!)
be found between 300 and 90® per annum. Thui
much by way of preface to the female world a
large ; now for the woman among you 1 couli
'.villi to be mine for life j in perl «n genteeily torm (
and of a moderate fiz :, her voice melodious, hei
hair may be ot any colour, and her complexior
brown or fair, out her teeth rauft be found, if noi
white and regular ; iri manners pleasing if not en
gaging j of a focir. 1 domeft i c dilpofition, in con
versation easy, but not witty, but let her be rathei
the coquette than the ptuoe, and in dress neat
if not elegant. With regard to the polite accom
plishments, music ii ueiervedlv held in the highel'
tftimation, for music hath charms to every ear
it is therefore expefled that (lie can play well
either on the harp, harpficord or piano-forte. If.
wid iw, her having any children would be an ob
jedtion, however well provided for, still more ob
jetlionable would maid or widow be who had ca
prici&ufly cast off her faithful admirer. Blefl'e.
as 1 am, no less with the means than the fpiri: o
independence, and aefpifing the idle prejudices o
the tim '.s, i am convinced that the parties uniting
by fucii a mode as is now offered, may be as hap
py as by a formal intrcd j&iou, and the dull, ltu
pid, tort ored state o f many years courtlhip. J
know all the obje&ions that can be made againf
it, but they can only be applicable to felfifh, ava
ricious, dcfpicable characters, irr.poftors ot boti
fcxe<. The lady's connexions in the ftritfef
sense. thoaJd be tiuly refpetlabl--:, and (hi mull
hayc been trained to such economy that she can
make 300 a year serve us and appear refpe&abie
to our neighbours ; and this economy fh uid br
manifrfted, were she even poffefling a fortune of
her own, whith is not so much infilled upon, as an
elegant form, a pleasing animated countenance,
meiodious voice, a mind well cultivated, a ref
pcdlable rank in facietv musical talents and a tem
per capable of inendfhip and love.
By luch management there will be no dread o
the want of the comforts of life, it thrice tin
means can hereafter be mustered ; nor will then
be any doubt on my part if such a lady is discover
ed, regarding our future felicity. In order t(
prevent improper applications, and that none ma\
be offended nor di lappointed, be it known 2c re
membered, that no farther information touching
the author of this address will be given until fuc.^
HEAL COMMUNICATIONS are received bv him a;
may be deemed fully fatisfa&orv, and thac then
mav be no trifling on this occalion, neither rank
nor' fortune, nor any other consideration whatever,
shall tempt him to alter his Ihe.se
communications must be from principals anc
from them only, in tneir own hand writing, with
real names and addteiles, they will not otherwifc
be considered in a serious light ; and if they dc
not live within the metropolis nor within twent)
miles of it, a reference to fame persons of respec
tability in town will be expected j no impropei
ule flia 11 be made of it. By these means, offici
ous negotiators and curious impeitinents may per
plex themselves in vain.
These conditions arc with the utmofr deference
fubmitied to the consideration of w men of liberal
feptiments, capable ot judging and ailing for them
selves, and who entertain fame opinion on the
fubieft, which I endeavour to maintain. If any
fucli fiiould happily glance i>n tins address, it
pofiible that the want of fortitude may be a bar to
many a worthy woman <orrelponding with thi
clefcription, yet not less amiable in my eyes fhal!
they seem, who may adventure to,- repose the ne
cefTary confiiJence in the author s integritj'. Trust
not the secret on any account to a third perfoa j
it is not a point either of us flioulo ever afient to
Should you be blelTed with a property of any im
portance vour relatives may be like mine, ana
both yours and mine had rather we wouid remain
as we are, for if you get a huftandyou may have
children, and uh'.ues can preach patience until
you are grown too old to have a chance lor either,
which 1 may be bold to fay is the cafe with many
a charming woman in this kingdom.
Whatever you may think fit to communicate,
(hall, in a word, be held sacred ; your letters lhail
be returned in due season, and an early oppoitu
nity embraced to latisfy your mind that you have
Co deal with a man of real honour. However ac
curately in I'everal refpe&.s the description con
tained in this addrels may be answered by many,
(hould it appear to its author that the utmost at
tention has not been paid to the lady s education,
both with regard to her morals as well as to hei
accomplishments, every application from such per
rons would be held unnoticed, for mod afTuredly
he has long known the world too well to be du
ped, and as this is a business of the greatest im
portance in life, he will be the more cautioufl)
guarded against the advances of unworthy cha
racters.
Letters for a period of twelve days from tnc
date hereof, will be received if direfled (pod-paid]
to P. G. D. to be left at No. 14. Bridges-flreet,
Govent Garden, London.
P. S. No letters will be answered unless they
are ftri&ly conformable to the conditions hereir
pro poled j and it is requeued that due attention
will be paid t» this poftfeript.
London, January 14, 179 2,
On the Inequality of the human condition.
What does one dog owe to another, and one
horse to another horse ? Nothing. No anima
■ epends on its fellow ; but man, partaking oi
that (park of divinity called reason, what advan
tage accrues to him from this ? To be a (lave
almod every were throughout the earth !—Wen
his earth what it apparently (hould be, that is.
did man every wete meet with an easy, certain
and late subsistence, and a climate suitable to hi:
nature, it is manifeftly impolfible that one mar
• uld have endaved another. When this earth
shall everv were produce salubrious fruits: wher
the air, which (hould contribute to our life, lhal
or bring us sickness and death j when man (ha!
land in need of no other lodging and bed thar
hat of the deer and roe-buck : then the Turk
ill and Asiatic tyrants will have no other domef
:ics than their children, and thele will have fc
much natural affedtion as to aflift them in thcii
old age.
in this so natural (late, which all quadrupeds,
birds, and reptiles enjoy, man would be happy as
they j dominion would be a chimera, an absurdi
ty, which no one would think of j tor who would
make a bustle to get servants without any want
of their service ?
Should any individual, of a tyrannical disposi
tion and extraordinary strength, take it into hi:
head to make a (lave of his weaker neighbour.
t!~»e thing would be impracticable ; the party op*
preflVd would be a hundred leagues out of the op
prefi'or*s rfach before he had taken his mealures
Thus a freedom from wants would necefiarily
make all men equal. It is the diflrefs annexec
to our fppcies which fubjtdls one man to ano
ther j not that inequality is a real misfortune ;
the grievance lies in dependence. What fignifiei
one man being (liled his highness, another his ho
liness ?—but to serve either is difagieeable. A nu
merous family has fuccefsfully cultivated a good
foil, whilst two small neighbouring families can
not bring their flubborn ground to produce any
thing. The two poor families mull either become
servants to the opulent family, or extirpate it j
this is fell"" evident : one of the two indigent fa
milies, for a subsistence, goes and offers its labou:
to the rich ; the other goes to difpolTefs it by
force of arms, and is beaten. The former is the
origin ofdomeftics and labourers, and from the
latter (lavery is derived.
In our calamitous globe, it is impofiible that
men, living together in society, should not be
uivided into two classes, one the rich, who com
m.nd, the other, the poor, who serve or obey:
Thele two are subdivided into a thousand, and
thele thousands have their farther subdivisions
and gradations.
AH the opprefied are nor abfolutelv unhappy :
moll of them being born m a servile (late, conti
nual labour preserves them from too sensible ;
feeling of their situation j but whenever the
feel it, wars are the consequence, as at Romi
between the Plebeian and Patrician parties
likewise those of the pcafants in Germany, E»g
land, and France. All these wars terminate,
soon or late, in the fubjeftion of the people, be
cause the great have money, and money does eve
ry thing within a (late : I fay within a slate } to
between nation 2nd nation it is otherwise. J
nation which handles iron bell, will ever b
too (Irong for that which with its abundance o
gold, is deficient in (kill and courage.
Everv man is born with no small propensity t<
power, riches, and pleasure \ and h.is naturally ;
delight in indolence j consequently every man i
tor having the money, wives, or daughters o
Dthersj would fubjeft them all to his humour:
and do no work, or at lead what only pleafei
himfelf. We may fee that for men with fuchdif
pofitions to be equal is as impolfible as that tw<
jreachers, or two profefi'ors of divinity, fliouh
lot be jealous of one another.
Mankind, in the present date, cannot subsist
jnlefs an infinity of ufeful men have the misfor
tune of being without any poflefiion whatever;
for, to be fure> no man in easy cireumdances wil
plough your grounds \ and if you are in want oI
a pair of (hoes, you mud find some other hand
than a sergeant at law or a jujge advocate, to
make them for you. Thus inequality is, at the
fame time, both the mod natural and the most
chimerical thing in the world.
Men being excelTive in every thing where they
can be so, this inequality has been carried toe
tar, in several governments it is a (landing max
im that a citizen is not allowed to quit the coun
try where he happened to be born : the import
of such a law is visibly this ; the country is so bat
2ud w p-overnedy that lue forbid a»y u bat
rver to go out, Ttaft every hedy should liani
? f ._ A good government will att more wifely,
it will create in its jubje&s a delight to remain, in
foreigners a desire of coming thither.
Every man lias a right believe himfelf nr.ru
rally equal toother men ; but it doe? not from
thence follow, that a Gavoinai's cr.-L wiay ©roer
his eminence to dress his dinner. The cook, in
deed, may fay, "I am as much a man as my mas
ter ; like him 1 cried at my birth, and he wwl
die in the fame agonies, and amidst the lame
ceremonies as I; the animal funaions are ahke
in both. K the Turks make themfclves inai
tcrsof Rome, and I then come to ue a
cardinal, and my matter reduced to turn cook,
I will take him into my fervice."—Th;rc is»no
thing in this soliloquy but what »s rational ana
jult j yet till the grand Icignior makes h.mle I
matter of Rome, the cook is to do his duty, eIU
there is an end of human society.-As ro hiir
who is neither cook to a Cardinal, nor holds an\
Gate employment, a*d who has no connexion en
dependence, but who is chagrined at being ever)
where received either with an air cf protector
or contempt, who plainly perceives that so man)
Lords, Dukes and Esquires have neither mor<
learning, more genius, nor more virtue thar
himfelf, and to whom it is a torment to be some'
times in their antichamber j what would yoi
have him do ?—■ Take himfelf *way.
f V*haire\
JUST IMPORTED,
From London, Dublin, and Scotland,
A largt and general ajfortmcnt of
BOOKS,
For sale by ROBERT CAMPBELL, No. 54:
South Second-Street.
VINER'S general abridgement of law anc
equity, alphabetically digested under pro
per titles with notes and references to the whole :
4 volumes are received. Price to fubferibers t\
dollars per vo). neatly bound.
* # * This work, will be comprised in 24 roya
odlavo vols. Bor more ot which will be pubiiihed
every year until completed.
Lord Raymond, Douglafs, Vefey, Cowper,
Strange, Crooke, Ambier, Salkeld, Peere Wil
liams, Durnford and Eali, Dallas, Comyn>, Bur
rows, Kelyng's and Aitkin's Reports in octavo—
Hargrave and Butler's Coke upon Littleton,
London and Dublin editions.—Comvn's digest of
the laws, 5 vols. Dodtor and Student, or dialogues
between a Doctor of Divinity anda Student in
the laws of England——F.unomus or dialogues
concerning the iaws and constitutions of England.
Fosters crown law-—Leach's crown law —Gil-
bert's practice in common pleas Hinds ana
Harrifons pradtice in chancery—New law gram
mar— Mallory's entries, 2 volf. — Newman's
conveyancing, 6 vols. — Williams's do. 2 do.—
[iighmore 011 bail—Hatfels precedents in the
houle of commons—Powel on contra&s- -Do.
on powers—Reeves's history of the Engiifh law-
New system of pleading—Sheppard's touch
ftone—Kyd on A wards—Richardson's common
pleas—Travels of Anacharfis the younger, in
Greece, during the middle of the 4th century be
fore :he christian era, 7 vols, with elegant maps.
Cowper's tranfljtion of Homer, 2 vols.---Gilies's
hi (lory of Greece, 3 vols.---Gibbon's Roman hif
tcry, 12 vols. ■ • —do. do. complete in 6 vols.---
Ruftels history of modern Europe, 5 vols.
Humes's history of England, 8 vols. —Rollins's
ancient history 8 vols. 8 vo. fame book 10 vols
12 mo Bofwell's life of Dr. Samuel Johnson,
ivith an elegant head — King of Pruffi»'s works
1 3 vols.- - Bruces travels, 6 vols.--Elegant extracts
Kofe, verse, and epistles—Domestic divinity by
K.nox—Mofheim's eccleliaftical history, 6 vols.—
joame Jenyn's works, 2 vols. Tower's lite of
Frederick the 3d. late King of Pruflia, 2 vo's.—
>hakefpeare's dramatic works complete in one
»01. Spallanzani's difl'ertations, reiative to
he natural history of animal* and vegetables, 2
/ols. The European and literary magazines
or the last 6 months of 179 1 - -The universal
ind gentleman's do. for do. Lately pubiiihed
Smellies philosophy of natural history, price 2
iollars, neatly bound.
N.B. Country storekeepers may be fuppliec
it the above place with family, common, anc
pocket Bibles, Tedaments, Spelling-books,
Watts's Pt'alms, Hymns, Playing Cards t Quills,
Wafers, Sealing-Wax, Writing-Paper, Blank-
Books, &c. &c. on the lowed terras. law
HOWELL's LARGE
MAP of PENNSYLVANIA.
THIS work is engraved in the molt elegant
fly It-, and will be ready for delivery earl)
this summer. It is 63 inches long and 36 in
ches wide, and for the mod part very full <ji
work (except some small places of which mate
iidls were not to he had) and was wholly com
piled from actual furvevs, acquired at great ex
pence of money, and more than four yea:t
labour, and from its manifeft public utility,
ihe Legiflatute has been pleased to grant the
jroprietot the fumof three hundred pounds.
This map exhibits the County and Towntliif
DiviGons, .ind those of the Surveyors D;ftntts
nthe New-Purchase, Donation and Deprecia
ion Lands; the waters, portages, and the Ca
nal, mountains and valleys, roads, towns, &c.
He thanks the Public for their very libera!
"übfeription, and informs them that it is yetkepl
open. He fells his SMALL MAPS, on car
lafs, folded and cas'd for pocket carriage, at
1016. and plain at 8/4.
READING HOWELL
A'o. 88, North Fifth-Jlrcet.
June 11. taw. 6w.
TEN POUNDS REWARD.
BROKE goal 2t .Monmouth court-house on
Sunday evening, the 10th ind. a Negro
Man, named SAM, fomecimes calls himfelf
Geor;e j is of a yellow complexion, high checl:
bones, large white eyes, *nd impuaent look, ;
said negro is about five feet ten inches high, had
on and took with him when he went away, a
Ihetting ihirt ;nd trawlers, cznalirigs frock, and
an old felt hat. Whoever will deliver said run
away to his maCer, or lodge him in any goal, so
that his master may have him again, fliall be
entitled to the above reward to be paid by me
ELISHA JEWEL.
Freehold, Monmouth county, June 22, 1792.
1. a. w^t
TO THE PUBLIC.
TiHE Sub(cr:ber has it in cor.tcrrplation Join is
decline bis pre/cut business— *nd having on
hard a ccnfiderable quantity of Juperfne ftccnd and
tlafiic cloths, together with a ■variety of other arti
cles in his iuay, propofei to fell them at the followmz
reduced prices- VIZ.
Beji Superfine r.avy blue 34*>
Ditto, ditto. Scarlet 5 6s -
Common colours fuperfne 3 2! -
Elafiic Jiripes 9®-
London buff and -white esjjtmers 15/5-
Ditto, coloured. do. ' 5 J *
York/hire do. do.
Striped toilenets 1 4 i *
Rattinets 3 s *
Striped Nankeens 3/4*
A 'variety of waificoatjhapes proportionally low,
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London beji silk hose, from 22/6 to 24^
The above goods have been mofily imported from
•me of the firft Mercantile bouses in London, and
are of an equal quality to any imported into Amen
-a; tbey will he fold per piece or jmallcr quantity
3 j may best suit thepurcbajers ; by th>publics mofl
humblefcrvant, JOHN RD.
No. 3 South Fourth-fir eet.
Any person disposed to purchase the whole
jf the above stock, may also have on reasonable
ern)9 his present dwelling house, together with
he it ore, a more eligible situation for business in
he tailor's Jine is not to be found in this city.
The advantage of this business being so well efta
>li(hed by the proprietor will be very great, and
"rom well known ta&s, needs no comment,
A lease of fix years may be had of the house.
May 14, 2™. '/•
This day is puklifhed,
\nd to be fold at No. 54, S. Second-street
By ROBERT CAMPBELL,
And BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147. Market-rtreet,
\_Price tenJhillmgs, neitly bound]
The New Art of Cookery,
According to the present practice ;
icing a complete Guide to all Housekeepers,
on a plan entirely new—
Confuting of thirty,eight Chapters.
—Containing —
PROPER d'.ie&ions for marketing, and truf
iing of poultry ; The making soups and
troths ; Drefling all forts of fiih ; Sauces tor eve
j occasion ; Boiling and roasting j Baking, broil
ng and frying ; Stews and halhes ; Made dishes
if every fort j Ragous and fricafees ; Directions
or drefling all forts of roots and vegetables; All
oitsof aumlets and eggs; Puddings, pies, tarts,
cc; Pancakes and fritters; Cheesecakes & Cuft
rds; Blancmange, jellies, and fvllabubs ; Dirsc
ions for the sick ; Preserving, syrups, and con
erves ; Drying and candying; All forts of cakes;
-logs puddings, sausages, &c ; little
old dishes; The art of carving ; Collarine, fat
ing, and foufmg ; Pickling ; To keep garden
egttablcs, &c ; Made Wines; Cordial Waters,
irewing; Englith ana French bread, See.
By RICHARD BRIGGS Many years Cook
it the Globe-Tavern, Fleet-ftreer, the vvhite-Harc
favern, Holborn, and no.v a: the Temple C ''ftec
loufe, London.
\'EW-YORK & PHILADELPHIA ST A G
Via Bordentown & Burlington,
And SHREWSBURY & PHiLADE!.-PHI A
STAGE,
Via. Bordentown.
THE proprietors of the New-York & Phila
delphia land and water Stages beg leave to
mention, that for the better accommodation of
aaflengers, they have thought proper to remove
:he different packet boats from their former
Hand at the Crooked Billet wharf, to the wharf
ir dock immediately next below Arcb-Stt eet, trom
whence, on the firfi day of July next, and after
:uards, a convenient packet-boat will start tor
New-York, as usual, on every Sunday, Tuesday,
Wednesday and Tburfday, and return on every
Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, The
pafiage to be made either by the .way of Borden
town or Burlington, each place to be taken al
ternately. Fare for Passengers from Philadel
phia to New-York 15s. — For Goods pr cwt. 6s
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
DAVID WILLIAMSON,
Proprietors of the line of New-York and Phi
ladelphia Stages, by the route of Bordentown.
JACOB MYERS,
AMOS HUTCHIN,
NICHOLAS SCHENK,
Proprietors of the line of N. York arid Phila
delphia Stages, by the route of Burlington.
The Shrewfbttry Stage will leave Philadelphia
in the months of julv and September, on every
Sunday and Wednesday, and return on every
Tuesday and Friday . In the month of August,
it will leave Philadelphia on every Sunday and
Thursday, and return on every Tuesday and Sa
turday.
VAN EMBURGH Sc M'KEAN,
DANIEL LOT,
Proprietors of the Shrewsbury and Philad. Stage.
Bordentown, June 25, 1792.
For freight or paliage apply to the matters on
board, or to M'KEAN &V. EMijURGH,
at their stores on laid wharf, immediately next
below Arch-street.
Philadelphia, June 27.
For freight or pafiage to Lamberton or Tren
ton, also apply as above. law 11
%* For saLe at this Office, Sermons: by
the Rev'd Dr. William Linn, of N. York.
Price 5/7 1-2.
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND S W A I N E,
AT THEIR OFFICE, NO. 209, HIGH- STREET
NEAR FIFTH-STREET,
FHILAD3LPHIA.