[Numb. 13 of Vol. ll.] W E D N E S D A Y, December 12, 1792.
From the Gazette of the United States.
IT was my intention to have closed with
my lafl paper, the discussion of Mr.
JefFerfcm's conduit in the particulars which
have been suggested; but the lingular
complexion of the l ilt number of a series
of papers originating in the American
Daily Advertiser, obliges me to relume it
As if bold affertlr.n were capable of
impofingany t in<g for truth, an attempt
is made, in the paper alluded to, to im
press the following opinions, lit, That
the extract which was given of Mr. Jeffei
foii's letter on the fubjedt of a proportion
for the transfer of the French debt, is
" falfe," ' deceptive," and " mutilated."
These are the epithets in different paffa
ges applied to it 1. That Mr. Jeffcrfon
was the mere vehicle, or to ule the prc
cife terms, " only the vehick; of communi
cation to Congress." 3d. That he"dis
countenanced" the proposition. 4. That
the " only" proposition which he made
to Congrcfs, was to borrow the money in
discharge the debt.
To give colour to these assertions, I
am called upon to produce the entire pa
ragraph from which the extract has been
made, and it is suggested, that the wliole
was depof'.ted in the quarter, from whenci
tie extradt is believed to have been taken.
I pledge my veracity that t is sugges
tion is unfounded ; as is another ; that the
information which has been communic ted
by ,me is derived from the opportunities
of official fituat on. I affirm unequivo
cally, that I obtained through different
channels a full knowledge of the transac
tion in February, 1 757 ; being in no pub
lic station whatever ; that I then saw the
extract, which has been published, and
which was at that time taken from the
original letter, and has been fincc prc-ferVed,
in the molt auth< ntic form. That I then
a'fo received information equally authen
tic of the general substance of the lttter,
33 relating to the matter in quell on, and
cf all other particulars concerning it,
which have heretofore been ftatrd, and
wiiich have been preserved, in a manner,
that admits no doubt of their accuracy or
genuinenels«
For this, 1 again appeal to (he letter
itfelf, 011 the files of the department of 1
Hate, where alone as far as I am informed,
its entire contents are depolited, and which
I entertain no doubt will confirm not on
ly the truth of the extradt which has
been given, but the jultnefs of the repre
sentation of the contents of the letter in
all other refpefts
Cojifidering the extradt as genuine,
which undoubtedly it is, it fperks for it
felf ; and unequivocally alfifies the sug
gestion that Mr. Jefferfosi was " only the
•vehicle" of communication to Congress. 1
It imports, without the possibility of eva- I
fion, advice to accede to the proposition -
which was made to the Dutch company. <
on the difnonorable ground of their being 1
danger, that the public payments -would i
rot be.punßual, and of its being in that 1
cafe expedient to transfer the disco tents, \
which would arise trom the want of punc- I
tuality, from the court of Fiance, to the 1
brvajls of a prin tt company : It therefore i
clearly makes tiim more than the mere I
vehicle of communication : the patron 1
and adviser of the meafnie upon the con- I
djtiou which has been dated. It as clear- 1
ly refutes the altonifhing assertion, that he 1
« discountenanced" the propoiition ; 1
whatever fubterfuge may be brought to j
colour it ; and it equally deflroys the
other allegation, that the only propofiti- j
on which Mr. Jefferfon made to Congress, 1
was to borrow the money in Holland to 1
discharge the debt. 1
It has been admitted, that there was 1
another proposition, in the fame letter, !
of that import; but it is denied under I
the appeal which has been made, that it 1
in ar.y manner derogates from the advice I
contained in the cxtratl. It is under- ;
By P. FRENEAU: Publifhcd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
!. Ilcjod to have been offered, as an alterna
tive ; in cafe the proportion of the Dutc
h company lhould not be approve —A
another mode which might be adopted
h to effect the payment to Fiance,
r It will be remarked by an attentive rea
s der, that while an artful attempt is made to
n bring into question the genilinenefs of *he
extract, a diYctt denial of its genuineness is
f not hazarded— R-ecotirfe is had to cqui
t vocal implications It is said to be "falfe
_ and deceptive," not in terms, but "upon a
c found conlirtidtion;"tha: " the contents of
. the letter, even m the exfraßpubbfhed, have
, been [hamefuUy misrepresented" not that
. tlie extract is itffclf a forgery; but that
> "otlierparts of the letter absolutely necefla
ry for the full Comprehension of it, are
. kept back."—The jargon of afTertirig, th '
. a literal extract from a paper is " falfe
and deceptive, upo • a found conJlritSion,"
is a proof of the embarrassment of ;he
commentator. Whoever willexdmine the
. extract will perceive, that as to the ptir
, pose, to which it has been applied, it is
an entire thing. The fentime it reproba
ed is there complete, and can be affedted
by nothing co lateral. The inferences
resulting from it can only be rep lied by
edablifhing that the extradl is in tarns
falfe This I believe will not be pretended.
It is '•s little true (in the sense in which
it is evidently meant to be underflood)
that the propoiition for the transfer of
the debt has been imposed upon Mr. Jef
terlon as his own, as it is that he d.fcoun
tenanced it. It ha 9 been acknowledged,
that the offer was firft made by the Dutch
company ; and has only been maintained
that Mr fefferfon ad»ifed its acceptance
on principles contrary to good morals;
a position which can never be overthrown
without introducing a new system of e
thics. In this sense too, and with the dis
approbation, which belonged to it, was
it niderftood by those to whom the ad
vice was addre(Ted, ; to the honor of the
public councils of the day.
It is ftU'gcll- d that the ar.imadverfions
up n Mr. Jefferfon's conduit, in these
papers, proceed from " private revenge "
This ftippoks some private injury real or
imagined. Ihe affertor must be not a lit
tle embarr.uTed to iupport the probability
cf such a cjufe. It is affirmed that none
such exiiis. Private revenge therefore
cannot be the (limulus. Let fadls speak
the true motives.
CATULLUS.
Vindication of Mr. Jkfferscn.
NUMBER V.
[/Continued from No. 10S 3
HAVI - G concluded in my art, the
reply to tie several allega ions brought
forward againll Mr. Jeffer'on,- by a
writer 11 ider the signatures of An Ameri
can and Catuliur, and placed each upon i
the gr; und on which it merged to (land, i
fubmiiting it refpedtfully to his country
men to determine, as well upon 'he pro- I
priety of his conduct in the particulars ;
suggested, aT on that of the author 11 I
troubling him and them with the fubjedS. i
I had likewi>« hoped that th's disagreea
ble bufinenf was at an end. lam happy, i
however, to observe, that the revival has l
been upon so limited a Icale, as to preclude
the apprehension of its being proiradted i
to any great extent. I (hall certainly j
contribute al! in my power tf> bring it to >
a close. !
The charge of a-ny impropriety ok the I
part of Jeffcrfon, in the letter refer
red to, relative to ihe p opofed transfer
of the French debt, seems to be abandon- 1
ed or but weakly infilled on, admitting
the statement given by that writer to i
have been corredt. And indeed it Would i
have been difficult longer to have fuftafa :
ed with a judiciousand well-informed pub- '
lie, any plausible argument upon that i
ground, after it was eitablifhed, that the '
French court and Dutch company were
rqu=T y anx ous fort'ne contract, and had
folic'ted out approbation of it. For fure
-1 ly, in such an event, we had a rigtv, and
without the finallell breach of morality or
delicacy, to weigh arid determine which of
> th si parties it would bed suit us to have
: for creditors 5 and how could we exeicif:
; such right without taking into view the
comparative merit of the parties, with e
-1 very pcffible tontiriger.ee that n ig'i t
t in the mo!t reftiote degree, tend to a(Fefl
r the payment of the debt ?
Th -' ijie obje& of this last publication,
under the f:gnature of Catullus, seems to
be, to vindicate the author from the
• charge of having mifreprefentrd the con
tents of Mr. JefFerfon's letter, and the a
lmfe of the duties of an official (lation,
in publishing any thing relative to it.—
Plow far he hasfucceeded in this attempt,
I (hall now proceed to examine.
I shall not trouble the reader with any
comment upon the ingenious criticism on
nty la.l statement. The variance will be
more e fily utideri'lood by reciting again
the contents of the paragraph in qnelti
oti, and comparing these with the llate
mcnt repeatedly given by that wiiter.
The ne rer we approach the source, the
nearer we fiiall be to the truth : sophistry i
may envelope v/itli darkness, but will ne- 1
ver illustrate a fubje«ft: The following,
then, I affirm, to be the cantent's of that |
paragraph. I
It states that in 1786, it being known i
the French court were diltreffed for mo- 1
ney, a 1 ompany of Dutch merchants had (
offa'ed tjypurciiafe of them the American t
ciebt* of tw«.n y four of Hvres, » ;
for the sum of twenty, and that their }
embarraflmcnts inclined them to accept of i
the proposal : That however a dslay was f
occasioned, on the part of the French c
court, by the ap'prfi'henfion it might JefTen £
our credit in Europe, and be disagreeable e
to Congress; whereupon he had been 0
consulted by the agent of the company
and to whom he had replied, that he was t
fidither authorised to approve or difap- i
prove of the tranfaftion. Having ftatcd f
the proposition as above, he obierves fur v
ther upon it, in its relation to his count
try, that if the.re bea danger our payments f
may not be pun&ual, it might be better t
that the difcoritents which would then a I
rife, C ould be transferred from a court, n
of whose good will we have so much need, t
to the brealtsof a private company. But f
that it had occurred to him, we migh ii
find occasion to do what would be gfste c
fu\ to that court, and eftabliffi With them t
a confidence in our honor : That ouf ere t
dit w.sgoo iin Holland ; might it not b r.
poffibli then to borrow there, the four _c
and twenty millions due to France, and
pay them the whole debt at once ? This f<
would save them from any Joss on orir t
account J with some further ©Lfervattons t
urging the propriety of this latter mea p
sure. v
Thatthe fubjeft maybe irpliiitlybefore
the public, I repeat again, that the above si
are the genuine contents of Mr. JefFerfon's C)
letter ori that head, and are Contained hi fl
one entire paragraph ouly That the ar a
rangement of the idea is the fame, and ti
that fn fubllance n< thin'g has been added n
to or takeri from it. i:
The import of tn£ a"bove appears to 1
me to be so dear and explicit, that every c
person muil unite in the fame conHrufti- li
ort. That the tnnfadtion, for instance, fl
had taken place between the parties be- t
fore any mention was made of it to Mr ii
Jefferfon : and that in communicating p
it to Congress, he only made known to t
that body, the defirc, both of the com pa- p
ny aftd the Freffch court; and was, o. p
co.urf?, only the vehicle of coirsrr.Unicati- : g
cn. That the opinion which he gave, e
arose out of the proposition, was in fur- 0
therance of their views, and that, in fact, t;
no decision could be formed on it, either ii
by :hc Gopsrcfs or hirnfelf, without a t
[ Total No. 117.]
e companion of the pa-ties as credito s to
d the United States. But that the propofi
:• lion which he made (for this was th it of
d the company) was to borrow the money
r in Holland, arid pay off the whole debt
f at once 5 and that he ciifliked that of the
e company or at lead preferred this, or
e would not have proposed it I (hall now
; subjoin the flatenient given by Catullus.
The following single fcntence has been
1 piibliflied by him, not only as a literal
1 tr nfc ipt, but as containing whatever was
t). ceflary to explain Mr. Jefferfon's fenti
, rnents on that head. , " If there is a
) danger of th- public payments net being
: punctual, / fubm'tt whether it may not be
better that the discontents which would
thfn arise, iliould be transferred from a
c urt, of whose good offi e£ we have fa
much netd, to the breads of a private
company." Soir.e concessions. have it i*
true, been h terly made, thou h reluc
tantly ; but Et is It ill infixed on, that they"
do not alter the conitruflidn conte .ded
for, nor very the impart of this single ex
trail ; and for its liberal conformity to the
otiginal, hi has pledged hi: met-acity.
The variance, then, betw. cn us. con.
fills in his fupprcfflon of the other parts o£
the paragraph, relating to '.he arne ft:b
jedt,-and which fliould be seen, to enable
the reader to comprehend its true import.
It consists, likewifc, in the alteration of a.
part of the ferttence itfelf, by the interpo
lation of words, which do not belong to
it. The passage in the letter referred to
reads precisely as I have ftat-ed it above.
Catullus has altered it by the insertion of
the following words, / Julmit whether it
aw.-'-.' ■st t better bf which the im
port of that sentence, and especially when
landing alone, has been varied. If there
fore the statement which I have given, is
correfl, it follows that Catullus has been
guilty of mifreprefentauon, an«) that the
e.\tra£i fumifhed by him, is jalfe, deceptive,
atid mutilated.
Whether the author of these pieces has
been guilty of thebr ach of offi. lal duties,
in the publication of anything relative to
Mr. Jefferfon's letter, I know not. A.
variety of reasons, of but little importance
to the ptiblicj and which 'tis not necessary
for me to recotffrt'. have crea ed a belief,
that they proceed from Mr. Hamilton.
If so; it will be difficult for him to re
move the imputation Thepertifal of theex
trad in 1787, when out of office, and the
fafe preservation of it fincc, will not jullify
its publication by the present aftirg Se
cretary of the Treasury ; nor does it au
thorize a belief, if he is the author, that
the official document in hie poff (lion, has
not b< eft resorted to since. Will it be
.contended that the conduit of the ofrcer
ft tlit heiid t>f that department, fliould be
fcanr-.ed in this instance, by the dunes of
the station he held five ot ten years pad ?
Or, in other words, that the office im
poses on him fro partita st obligations, and
which he is bound to regard ?
Considering this attack upon Mr. Jef">
ferfon in the commencement, as an attack
Opofl principles : knowing that the con
ftifHng interests of parties were, at work,
and th.it the one which v.'asfu pest.d, with,
too much reason, to be attached to mo
narchy, would endeavour, as an obstacle
in its way, to undermine not only him,
nit other republican chara&criri the
confidence of t'eir countrymen; and be
lieving, as well from the dutiesofhisofficial
Ration as his known delicacy in observing
thern, he would disregard it, I thought it
in some measure a duty I owed to those
principles of equality which I venerate, to
take up thefubjeft,and place it on its pro
per ground. So far, then, as any im
putation has been taifed, a distin
guished and patriot citizen. I have furnifh
edtherep.y, and I prefilme. fnewn not
only his innocence of any impropriety ire
the a legations suggested, but likewise lhe
impurity of the motives \yhi ;h difUted
the attack.It only, injustice to the
Strtlfwrof the papers under the signature
t>f An American, and Catullus, to fettle
the fa£t, whether he has been guilty of
nifreprefentation, and the breach of an
official duty, in the instance alledged, and
I have every poflible disposition to con
cur, on my part, in those arrangement?
which may be recefiary to dispel every
doubt on tha't fubjeft. The truth nay
be ascertained, by a recurrence to the de
posits in either of the departments, o!
Htate, or the Treasury. If Mr. Hamil
ton is not the author, and will announce
it, I fliall corfider the fubjeft as unworthy
of further notice : if it is neither denied
nor owned, but the altercation continued
without any proof being produced —for
none has yet been — I (hall lmewife con
sider it beneath my attention ; but if he
is the author, and will allow it, my name
fliall likewise be submitted, that joint mea
sures may then be taken, whereby the
truth ma'v be placed in a clear, authentic
point of view, before the public.
For the National Gazette^
Forerunners of Monarchy and Aristo
CRACY in the United States.
lit THE titles of Excellency, Honor
able, and Efquiie—all of which are of mo
narchical origin, and are absurd in a repub
lie.
zd Levees! ——
3d. Keepig the b'irth days of thefervanh
of the public—Mr. Paine fays, very justly ;
that it is dangerous for a people to believe
that any one man, or set of men, are necef
fary to the fafety or happiness of a coun
try, and keeping the birth days of indivi
duals has a tendency to create such an opi
nion. The 4lit ofjuly being thebirth day o!
the Americans into a world of freedom ar.c
independence, is the only day that fhouY
be consecrated to feftivity and gratitude ir
the United States
4th Efl iblifhing a ceremonial diHance be
tween the officers of the government andthepeo
pie It is to make the creature greater thar
the creator—lt is to repeat the crime anc
folly of idolatry—lt is an inversion of si
order, for in a republic, officers of govern
ment are the political servants of the peo
t A " ! "r''
verfal civility, and in no instance to awfu.
and (Sflant respect.
eth. Parade of every kind tn the officers oj
government, such as pompous carriages.
' splendid feafts, and tawdry gowns, i heit
baubles are an insult to the undemanding
of a free people- They suppose them tc
be children, and that they are to be_ go
verned by their senses and imaginations,
and not by their reason.
6th. I.coking up to heads of departments,
and praiftng cr blaming them for the gooa
cr evil things which sow from the govern
nent We learnt this language frum
Great-Britain, where minilters only are
responsible for the tranfad.ons of the
who'e goTernment, and very justly, for the
government in point of representation is
created chiefly by the m.mftrjr ; but the
reverse is the cafe in the United States
The three branches of Congress are cho
sen by the people, and they alone should an
swer to the people for all the foJy and
corruption that may be supposed to exist
' in the administration of the government
The heads of departments, ly the: confu
tation of theU.States.are not the ministers,
but the Secretaries of the Prefideot.
7 th. High salaries to the officers of govern
ment. These are necessary in monarchi
cal and ariftocratical governments; where
men mud be bribed by dinners and presents
,0 do their du-y ; but in a republic such
txpences are unnecefTary. Ibe custom of
entertaining should be reversed in a ree
country. By this means rulers will know
the minds and wills of their mailers, for
men speak more freely at their own tables
than at the tables of perfoas whom they,
absurdly, suppose to be their superiors —
Above all things it is highly monarchical
and ariftocratical for the officers of go
vernment to spend their salaries only in
feafting one another. It draws a danger
ousline between the rulers and the ruled
of a free country—lt institutes at once a
privileged order of men, An office cre
ates no change in the mind or body of a
man—and the moment he separates himfelf
from his condiments by a faftidious dis
tance, he ould be displaced.
' Bth. I f-igacy in the officers of govern
ment-, wh ether it maivfeits itfelf infwearing,
drunkenness, debauchery, or a want of juf
tke ia "the payment of debts. Theft are
ill tvv/al and noble vices, and fl.ould never
be tolerated in the rulers of a republic —
" We must rot imagine* fays Montef
quieti, ti.?t criminal attions only r.re def
rrufiiv-of virtue; it is deftrcycd F.lfo, by
omfions, by fiegleiJs, by cl certain coolness in
the love of our country, by bad examples, aim
by the feeds of corruption,"
9th /In opinion that tie care of the fait
fh'-ultlbe the txclufive bvfmefs of the officers
of the government. It was the influence o'f
this op rion which produced so many pub
lications in the years 1775, which
reflected upon the mechanics for med'ing
with politics. It is the fame opinion
which iiac led forr-.e ariflocrats to raise a
hue and cry parsons and doctors
when they point out public abtffes, as il
thev wers no' as much interested in public
order r.r.d public liappinefs as any other
class cf citizens. It is well enough in
England to run down the rights oi
man, because the author of those in
imitable pamphl'ts was aflay-makcr; but
in the United States all filch profcription
of certain clafles of citizens, or occupa
tions, fhotild be avoided ; for liberty «ii
never be fafe or durable in a republic'til
every citizen thinks it as much Ins duty t f
take care of the state as to take care <'•
his family, and until an indifference tr
any public question fha.ll be conllderec
as a public offence.
10th. An irredeemable debt. " his is he
reditary monarchy in another shape, I
creates an influence in the executive par
of government, which will soon render i'
an overmatch for the legislative. It is the
vrorft species of king's evil. It is the dil
grace andcurfe of republican governments
It is to be hoped the citizens of the Unitec
States will guard their infant republic frcn
all the forerunners of monarchy, whicl
have been mentioned. Liberty like chafti
ty has its outposts. Where delicacy anc
modesty are surrendered without a drug
gle, the conquest of virtue becomes easy
In like manner when the mind become;
familiar with the trappings of royalty anc
aristocracy, the tranfnion to'monarchy anc
tyranny is inevitable. May heaven teacl
us wisdom, and grant us republican princi
pies and manners, as well as republican go
vernmenls !
MIRABEAU.
Dec. sth, 1792.
For the National Gazette.
[Continued from our last.]
WE have too long been amused and mis
led by names. The improper use ol
words, or the artful misapplication oi
names and epithets, it is very evident, ha;
had a great and dangerous influence upor
the politics of this country. Has not eve
ry abufeof language, that can be thought
of, been constantly practiced for a long
time, to give the people falfe ideas, both
of the government, and of its adminiflra
tors ? Have not confolidationalifb beer
currently passed upon them as federals
aristocrats called the best of men ; thead
vocatesfor monarchy ftiled the only friend;
to good government ; republicans, dubbec
enemies to 1 berty and the constitution ;
and Clinton, a friend to mobs ?
111 ihort, the new constitution has intro
duced such a Babel-like confulion into ou.
language, that I fear it will be long, per
haps too long, before the people will be a
ble to come to a right understanding oi
men andmeafures, of characters and prin
ciples—a matter of such infiniteimportancc
in an elective government. I wish fouie
ingenious hand, would furntlh the public
with a short dictionary of those word;.,
which, like many of' the political leader:
of our country, have changed their mean
ing liuce the year 1776- The language oi
that tane was plain and honest—it was dic
tated by "common sense"; and differed so
eii'cntially from that of the present day,
that there is great reason to fc if our
rapid pi ogress in refinements does not meet
with a speedy check, the language oi Com
mon Sense will be totally discarded in out
country, and the Rights of Man coulider
ed as chimerical.
After these general observations, I fliall
proceed to make a few upon the produc
tion of Mr. Otsego.
He fays " the Jackalls of Monocracy arc
endeavoring by calumny to hunt down the
character of Mr. Adams." Upon this I
would observe, that having perused moil
of these mobocratical writers, I do not
recollect to have seen any thing thrown
out by them against Mr. Adams's charac
terful what they have produced chaptei
and verse for, out of his own works, and
if a man's own works calumniate his cha
racter, who must we coniider as the author
of the calumny ?
As to the res t of the paragraph, it wants
110 other a.nfvver but an explanation offome
of the terms made use of in it, in order
to make it intelligible, and conliiteut with
truth anc! Mr. Adams's principles; wlncu
explanations I ihall give in parentheses as I
"Because, lay . he, they look upon
the re-election of this officer (Mr. Adams)
as the triumph of Order (an order of no
bility) and Good Government (hereditary
monarchy) over Anarchy (a representative
government without an hereti.tary he?d,
and Dil'orner (a government. without the
necelfary check ot the order of nobility
before mentioned)* for they know (he ha:
toidthemfoin his own writings) that his
principles (of government by king, lords,
and commons) promote the former, and
are incompatible with the latter. 1 hey
eagerly wilh the election of his Competito;
(Governor Clinton) which will be the tn
umph of Antifederalifm (repnblicanifm.
suppOrted by all the friends of a federal
government, as opposed to a consolidation
and Anarchy (the government of the peo
ple by their representatives, without an he
reditary head) over Union (a government
in the hands of one or monarchy, or else
a consolidation by which the ltate go
vernments fliould be totally absorbed in the
general ONE) and tranquility (a liate of
total 'indifference in the people lor, and
neglect of their rights and happiness, an.'
a quiet, tame and flavilh fnbmillion to the
abl'olute tyranny and domination of the
few, a ionfummation devoutly wilhedfor)
for they know his principles (they appeal
in the journals of the old Congress, which
contain the amendments proposed by the
flare of New-York iigned by himleif a-
President, and I promise not to charge Mr.
Otfcgo with calumniating the character oi
our candidate, if he fhoukl think it neces
sary to re-publish them in the newspapers)
are and have been long opposed to the pre
sent federal constitution."
Here it may be neceflary to observe,
that altho' Governor Clinton had objec
tions to the constitution, they were such
as were supported by the sense of a great
body, I believe I may fay, of a great ma
jority of the citizens of the United States:
And that many of these objections were
well founded, hath been acknowledged by
two thirds of both houses of Congress in
proposing amendments to remove them ;
but I much doubt Whether 1 Mr. Otfego
could obtain the concurrence of one tenth
of the people of these United States, or ot
more than one third of the two houles of
Congress, with the principles of a govern
ment by king, lords, and commons.
It appears therefore that Governor
Clinton's oppolition to the adoption of the
constitution, was founded upon approved
principles; and I alTert, without fear or
contradiction, that it was fair, open, man
ly and honorable, and supported (as I am
well informed) bv the unanimous sense oj
his immediate conilituents, almoxt without
a lingle dissentient, and of at least two
thirds of the citizens of the state, over
which he has so long had the honor to pre
lide.
(To be continued.)
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
AS a Treatise, we are told, is shortly '<
appear in vindication of Monarchical
Federalism, and exhibiting to view th
comparative merit of Mr. A 's and
Gov. C 's political creeds, it is re
commended to th.> author to extend hi:
plan to a difcuflion of the following ques
tions :
First —'Why is Mr. A. who has fairh
published in print his opinions for monar
chy, so severely handled by our republicai
z.e<llots, whilst others are spared, who art
well known to hold the fame principle!
nid views, tho' they are careful to deal
them out less open-haudedly ?
Secondly—ls it generous or friendly ir
these wary pursuers of the fame objeci
with Mr. A. to leave him in the brunt ol
ill the lhafts of republican malice, and tc
skulk themselves into the rear of the buii
'.cfs : thus, like certain brotherhoods whe
hall be nameless, because it is not meant
:o degrade by the comparison, keeping the
lonefteft but molt unguarded member oi
:he corps between themselves and a cer
tain wooden machine, which fliall likewiu
jc nameless for the fame reason.
FAIR PLAY.
December 11.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
PARIS, Sept. 17.
One of the mod material objeits of le
gislative bufmefs has been, to make a fur
ther progress in the decrees concerning
divorces. Several articles are palled very
consolatory to those wretched spouses who
have been unfortunate enough to ally
themselves witil brutes or vixens. If ei
ther party, after trial, is difl'atislied with
the temper of their mate, there is now an
easy and certain mode of proceeding to ob
tain a dissolution of the marriage con
tract.
Commissioners, appointed by the Nation
al Convention to give an account of the
state of the national treasury, and of the
extraordinary bank, have delivered at the
bar the following ftatenients :—
Receipt of the N. T. from the ift oi
Jan. 1792, to the 22d of September—
9'5,725,695 livres.
Expenditure during the fame tl;r.e—
865,526,764.
Remaining in the national treasury—
50,148.895 livres.
The commiilioners proved, that this sum
a£tually existed in the treasury in different
eifefts. of which the gold and silver a
mounted to 11,892,608 livres, and there
were valid engagements for the delivery of
those metals, pt the different mints, to the
amount of thirteen millions more.
The receipt of the extraordinary bank
to the prel'ent time had amounted to
2,632,583,166 livres.
The expence to 2,604,752,125 livres.
Remaining in the bank, 28,752,125 li
vres.
The receipt of the revenues and capitals
of the national effects, 623,290,808 livres.
The total of affignats so received, which
had been burned, 617,000,000 livres.
There remained in affignats which would
be burned the next day. 6,298,808 livres.
The trenches round Paris are making a
very rapid progress, though we think there
will be scarce any occalion to make use of
them, at least before next summer- One
of our patriots has, indeed, taken effectual
means to frighten hisPruffian majesty from
any further hostile delign : he has deposi
ted with the aflembly twenty-five livres,
to be paid to any man that will bring one
of the king's ears, and promised twenty
five Louis d'ors for his whole head.
" Ever_ precaution is now taking to
prevent a repetition of outrages, similar to
those which took place on the 10th of Au
gust and 2d of September: the feftions
have formed a general confederation a
mong theinfelves, and each citizen makes
liimfeff responsible for the lof-, and proper
ty of his neighbour ; from the manner in
which this is arranged, together v ith the
patro!es who watch over its execution, the
tranquility of the city is not likely again
to be disturbed, and the seditious are cer
tain of being apprehended, before anymif
ihievous deiigns can be earned into ef
teft.
" RoufTeau has asserted, that a revolu
tion is gained at too high a price, if it costs
the loss of one citizen. This axiom is
tontemptible, because it induces abj«£t
rubniiflion to the vilest defpotifrn, Liberty
nay, however, be purchased at too dear a
"ate, w hen honor and justice are made the
acrifice. The general abhorrence of the
ate massacres, are the cleared proofs that
30th the national honor and justice remain
.inimpeached, iince every exertion v. as
nade by the constituted powers to hinder
lie violation of either. Every friend to
Tcedom must lament, that its traitors
hould fuffer any other punlfhrnent than
:hofe inflicted by the law, which has, or
might to have fufficiently avenging pow
;rs, whilst tyrants only are left to aflufiina
;ions an J proscription.
" Let those who heap undistinguished m
amy on the nation for this ast, if they are
willing to believe it the act of the nation,
reflect, that since the revolution of
th'Hif.uxls have fallen in. defence of those
jrincipies which the treasons of the court
lave now made the principles of any man
ivho has any attachment to liberty. Let
iiim recollect on the one fide, the mafia
:res at Nant'z, Nifmes, Montauban, Avig
ton, Carpentras, and the Champ deMars,
where the purest blood was spilt byt.ie
:ourt and the aristocracy ; whilst, previous
to this event, only one man had bcea con
temned, a-{f very few had fciffered from
lie rage of the people.
"It fliould be remembered a'.fo, that
with the concurrence, nay, with even the
invitation of this court and the aristocracy
it home, one hundred and thirty thousand
Prussians, Auftrians, Ruffians, and emi
grants, had entered France ; that the Dur.e
as Brunlwick had threatened death to the
lighted rciiftance, and his followers had
;iven serious specimens of the modes in
vvhich they would infliit it, by cutting oft
;he noses and ears of the men, and nailing
lie lart to their heads ; and belicles the or
iiilary and allowed cruelties to women,
uttina; off their breasts, and murdering
.he infants, &c. That this army was on its
nurch to the capital, and had already ta
cen the only two forts that lay direct.y on
ts way ; that at this moment, the exulta
tion of "the aristocracy in Paris became as
unbounded, as its discovery at this time
was imprudent, that to repel those inva
ders, not only the federates who were 111
Paris, but considerable detachments of ci
tizens were preparing to march, leaving to
the mercy of internal foes the fate of their
wives and children ; under these repeated
provocations, and influenced by fears which
appeared so well founded, it is not to oe
wondered at that so little reliftance was
made at firft, to those whose resolution had
been fixed for some days to make so terri
ble an example, and in punishing the guilty
now, furnifh motives to others not again
to provoke so dreadful a vengeance.
"As the folly of the French aristocracy
is equal to every thing, except its coward
ice, I should not be surprized, if by re
maining here, when they have the liberty
of going into any other part of the king
dom where they are unknown, they fliould
again tempt or provoke another infurrec
tlon. The vigilance of the police, it is to
be hoped, will prevent any more such out
rages ; which, whilst they are lamented
by every good man, are equally Subjects ortriumph, though on different grounds; tc
the abettors of tyranny -and its too feroci
ous oppofers. From tie bulletin of the
Afl'embly you will have observed, that the
a£hial forces of the enemy and the French
bear no proportion. Wtiilft the greatest
exertions are malting on the part of the
latter, the proppers of the Duke 01 Brtitif
wick are checked for the present. The
treafo.i or cowardice of Longwy and Ver
dun, does not appear to be general. The
little garrison of Thionville, has ltood the
attack with firmnefs. You may put eve
ry th.ng 1,1 Thionville, fays the comman
der, to hre and (word ; you may accumu
late horrors of every kind, but you car
neither burn the ramparts, nor frighten
me, or t.iofe I command, into cowardice.
It is deemed eiienti.il, that this place anc
Metz be ta ;en, before the combined ar
mies proceed to Paris; before that hap
pens, ij:ds hundred s of thousands wiil be
4 collected; and whatever contempt we
may affect for u'ldifciplined troops, I fa\v
enough on the io:h of August, to persuade
me that this contempt is unfounded. The
rage for eulifting is so great, that the Af
feinbly will be obliged to pass decrees tc
regulate, if not to prohibit it for the pre
sent. The southern departments are
fending Up thousands daily, for the anima
tion is uaiverfal. Contrast this with the
intprefs of England, and if British arms, bj
the means of men thus forced into servi
ces, have been in general fuccefsful, whai
may we not expert from the present tem
per of the French ? The combined armie:
are called immense machines, but there i:
p.period when men cease to be those ma
chines. That period happened to the
French army in July 1789, and it may nol
be far diltant from them."
Luxembourg, Sept 25. —This city has
become the perfect asylum of death; a
day does not pass in which carriages, load
ed with dead bodies, are not brought in ;
and if reports may be credited, Thionville
ha; not cofl the enemy less than 3000 men.
The blockade of Montmedi is Itill conti
nued by General Clairfait. The king ot
are ordered to buy up pro
viiions at any price whatever; but not
withstanding this; the confuiilption of so
many numerous bodies cannot fail of pro
ducing a speedy and inevitable scarcity.
Frank'ort, Sept. 24. —A clfcu'ilftance
has occurred here, which has occalio leu
much alarm. On application from the
Prince of Conde, a person of the name ol
I'Eveqite, who is by profeflian a dentilt.
and is eflablilhed at Strasbourg, has been
apprehended in consequence of a discovery
having been made that he was engaged to
afla.Hnate the king of Pruilia.
This person has been employed profef
fiotally, in the family of the Duke of
Wurtemburg, and attended the Dutchefs
in her late virit to the princess Ferdinand
of Pru li i. After he was taken into cus
tody, he confeffed the truth of the charge
—an.t added, that he had already received
fifty thousand livres, ia part of the reward
which had b;en promised him for the per
petration jf tius horrid crime.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, December 10.
The bill for promoting -the progress of
the ufeful arts, was read ta'ice, aad re
ferred to a committee of the whole on
next Monday.
A petition of Isaac Potts was read, pray
ing compensation for loss of property, du
ring the war, occupied in the fervicc of
the United States, was read and laid on
the table.
A letter was received from the Secreta
ry of War, iiitloiing the copy of a letter
froir;the Governor of Georgia, with vari
ous communications relative to Indian ai
fairz. The heads of these pap<. ra were a:
follow—rit, A proclamation from his ex
cellency Edward Telfair, Ifq to the in
habitants of that Hate, prohib ting them al
their peril to commit any holfifities against
the Cherokee nation. 2d, A talk to tae
said tribe, and, 3d, The copy of a letter to
major Gaither, direffing him to guard the
western frontier of the ft ate"- with what
troops he could raile, to prevent any iu
curnons from the Cherckees, and likewise
to (top any incurlion into their couatry,
and complaining of some outrages latelj
committed by the iahab tahts of Georgia,
who burnt a town and kdied four Indi
ans—laid on the table.
Mr. \V. Smith, from the committee ap
pointed, brought in a bill toeftabiifli an u
niform fyOem of bankruptcy throughout
the United States—read tw ice, and refer
red to a coinmittee of the whole house or
the f? cond Monday of January, 1 "93.
Other proceedings being of a private na
ture, the doors were Ihut.
PHILADELPHIA.
December 12.
On Sunday last arrived here, in the (hip
Ceres, Capt. Marfn. from Hamuurgh, Mr.
Bianchard, the celebrated aeronaut, with
his aeroitatic apparatus. The Ceres ha
ving failed from Hamburgh on the fii'ft ol
October, brings-nothing new.
We hear from Ne\v-Ycrk, that the
Electors for Preiident and Vice-President
have unSflimoully voted ibr George Waih
ingtun,Preiident,andGeorgeClinton, Vice-
President. In the Hates of Maryland, De
laware, and Connecticut, the electors have
been unanimous in favor of ueorge Waih
mgton and John Adams.
On Friday the -ih instant the Governor
met both hotifes of the Legislature of this
commonwealth, and delivered his speech;
and on Saturday a committee were ap
pointed to prepare an answer.
We hear from New-Jersey that the E
lectors for Preiident and Vice-President in
that ltate were unanimous for George
Walking ton, Preiident, and John Adams,
Vice-President—The Electors, for Penn
sylvania, that met at Harrifburgh, were
Unanimous in the fame choice for Preii
dent ; and for Vice-President, except one.
No fair appeal) fays a correspondent, has
yet been made to the public -on the com
parative merits of Mr. Adams and Mr.
Clinton, as candidates and competitors for
the chair of the \ ice presidency ; the for
mer being in pofleilion of the office, would
necelTarily occur to theelefitorsfor re-elec
tion unlets a review of his public conduct
aud principles, or the superior claim of a
competitor, lhould furniih caufefor his re
moval ; the latter has been so lately
brought forward, and the reasons for pre
ferring him ft) recently stated, that it win
not be matter of fnrprize if the public
mind destitute, as it in a great tneafure is,
of that information which a more timely
and full inveiligation of public characters
would afford, should for the present acqui
esce in the re appointment of Mr. Adams/
Equivocal however, as such a re-appoint
rnent is, of the actual opinion of the peo
ple, it is highly prefuinable that without a
rdinquifhment of some of his political he
relies, the time is not remote, when that
gentleman may experience in a removal
from ollice, less indifference 011 the part
of the public than has beeii inaaifefted on
the present election.
Another correspondent remarks, that
n proof of the indifference of thepeoplea.
:o the election of a vice-president, theelec
:ors of Pennsylvania were chosen -by le!'»
;han 4000 votes, whereas in the choice of
•eprefeatatives to Congress by the fame
t.ite, upwards of 4.0,000 votes were give i
;ntire counties omitting altogether to vote
"o? electors.
Bank profits (fays a late writer) are
Snormous, and whilftintiie web of fifcal
oiurivartce the public are made to pay the
extraordinary sum of 50,000 dollars, an
nually, for tne expence of clerks fox the
"ole purpose of making transfers of funi
ted itock, to accommodate the gentlemen
Speculators, would it not be proper for
Congress to impose a tax 0:1 transfers at
lea'ft equal to the expence of making them,
and alfofuch a tax 011 bank Itock as would
better equalize and accomodate its present
immoderate profits to the public necessity
aad convenience.
The molt recent intelligence from France
is highly favourable to the friends of repub
licanism and liberty. Some particulars
we are en ibie.l to state as follows :—The
camp'-marihal Omoran had nearly driven
the despotic forces from his part of the
French frontier—A niifuuderilanding of a
Serious nature had happened betxyeen the
duke of Brunfwickand the king of Pruflia;
their forces were reduced tp the inoft
mortifying extremity, their provilions be
ing absolutely exhauited, and their fufte
nauce very little more than the horfesthat
died of famine and fatigue—M. Dumou
rier's army was 70,000 Itrong (effective
men) including 12000 cavalry—the en
emy on the frontiers of Brabant had
been repulsed, and St. Aiuand and the
camp of Maulde retaken—ln Lon
don, upon a ful'picion that the court
were inclined to join the league again!!
France, bills had been palled up every
where inscribed, "Peace with France, 01
a revolution in London." Lisle and Thi
oaville were ltiil bdieged, but no proba
bility of eithei' being taken ; the forniei
availed by 31,000 Auftrians : on the ill o]
October 6000 women and children wert
sent out of the town. The enemy hac
thrown into Lisle 500,000 wt. of balls,
from 9 batteries of 6 guns each, carrying
bails from 15 to 33 lbs—in return, tin
garrilon had discharged upon them 57,00 c
cannon balls ; having only loft 130 men.
and about 100 houses burnt. On the
night of the 2d of October the French fount
means to throw into Lisle 6ooofrelh troops.
A declaration of war from the whole Ger
man empire, with the addition of Spain.
a-as hourly expected when these accouuts
came away—the Frufiian army was in the
inoft critical situation, had but 3 days pro
vilion, and it was thought could not avoir
being cut to pieces by the determined
troops of France.
On the 4th of November, eight envoys
from the Cherokee nation (three, of their
head warriors)arrived atKnoxville. The
particular object of their journey was tc
hold a talk with the Governorof the South
western territory, to allure him of the pa
cific disposition of their nation, and to re
.jiicft t'ie liberty of hunting without beina
tnolefted.—Ou the 10th, they were dif
niiifed on their return home. Two regi
ments marched from Knoxville the day be
fore to guard the frontier?, and to build
forts dnd stations between the Papo ford
and the jun&ion of the Cliiich and ennef
fee rivers. The Indians of the fottth
weftern country seem very much divided
in refpeclto making peace with the United
States ; and while a " diplomatic" party
are making a friendly talk in one neigh
borhood, nothing is more common than for
a second gang to be dealing horfesor miir*
dering the inhabitants in another. On tile
12th, a party of fifteen Cherokee Indians
attacked a home seven miles from Knox
ville. They beat in the windows with
tomahawks, and presented two rifles, but
before they could take light, Mr. Byram
! and Mr. Jeffefies, the only men in the
house, fired at the two indians who appear
ed at the window, kiiled one, and mortal
ly wounded the other, upon which the In
dian party fled. A number of women and
children were in the house, who by this
means escaped the tomahawks of savages.
We hear that about a half a mile of the
Delaware and Schuylkill canal is dug,and
the work Hill going oil as fall as the ad
vanced state of the feafun will petmit.—
Accounts from Sufquehanna canal menti
on some disturbances to have happened
therein conequence of the workmen be
ginning to dig on the property of landlords
in the track of the canal.
Extractof a letter from a Member of Con.
grefs, dated Philadelphia, 19th Novem
ber 179-2, to his friend in Martjnfburg.
" We have (pent much time examining
the communications from the executive,
refpectiyg tranfaitions during the recess ;
thele c r.lunuuications are voluminous, and
cannot be detailed in a letter, but the opi
nion which I have formed, as the result of
the investigation is, that the negotiations of
lail: summer, and our former treaties with
the Indian tribes, have confirmed in their
attachment to the United States, and dis
posed to peace (the influence of rival pow
ers notwithstanding) a majority of the
Creeks, Cherokees, Chocktaws and Chick
afaws, —to this is owing the failure of the
intended expedition against the Cumber
land settlement. The W'abaih and Illinois
Indians have likewile agreed to treat, and
sixteen of their warriors are 011 their way
to this place, which will have a gopd ef
fect, if the Miami ond other weltern In
dians can be subdued : I fay subdued, be
cause I believe there is 110 alternative, al
though endeavors to obtain peace will pro
bably be continued through the wis ter ;
but if they (hould continue their hoffilitie.
fuccefsfully, the other tribes cannot, and
>erhap.i will not with to restrain their
ydur.g men from plunder ; they wiii con
feoueatly keep our trontiers in a ftateof
alarm and distress, and by provoking re
taliation on the part of our people, render
the war general.
" I will give another opinion. which is
founded on concurrent advice from Eu
rope and the southern states of America :
it is this—that there will be a great de
mand for corn-during the present year, it
will therefore he imprudent for our far
mers to fell their wheat at low rates—the
great abundance of their crops notwith
standing.
Extra£t of a letter from an American gen
tleman in Dunkirk, to his friendin New
Bedford, dated'O&obcr the st.il, reeeiv
per the brig Mary.
"As so pubhc matters, some things are
too horrible to relate, particularly the
dreadful mafTacrs in Paris. The abomi
uable inftrumeilt.that set this ou foot, is 2
member of the national convention ; and
I am rejoiced to find thatalmoft the whole
alterably are difguiled at his being one oi
their body : great severity has been pour
ed out upon him there, and many call for
a decree of accusation against him ; but
others I apprehend, fearing it will make
too great a buttle, have put it by tor the
present. The desolations of war approach
us ! Lisle is beiic-ged by 31,c00 Aaltrians.
It is a strong city, 48 miles from this : in
flill weather, the report of their cannot
are heard here. It is supposed, if 11c
treachery takes place, to be able to wifh
ftand a liege of many months, opposed t<
an army of (og.goo men. The moll
horrid part of this siege is out of the com
mon line of war. The Auftriarts oblige
the neighbouring peufantsto work or. did.
trenches and fortifications, erecting in the
front arid most exposed part of the army,
where many of the poor creatures are
killed by their o-Wn friends and fellow
subjects. On '.he ht of the second, ( oct
frelh troops were thrown into the towu ;
and in two days many more will be in it:
neighbourhood.
" All the lire engines are sent off froir
this toWii for that city, to afiift in extin
guishing the fire kindled by the red hoi
balls. It is daily expected that Spain ant
all Germany will declare war again!:
France. The diet of Ratifbon is suppo
sed to have coucludtd 011 this measure
Ruilia is marching her forces from Po
land.
'• Switzerland, it is feared, w ill be add
ed to the number 011 account of the lat>
inhuman niafifacre of a great siumber o
their officers; and France has declared i*
gainll the king of Sardinia, ar.d has march
ed ah army into his dominions' His ar
my has tied before them, and many of the
to vns have opened their gates, and deiired
»o be under the French government; but
as they have declared against "War for
CTdnqueft, they propose only fettirg the
people free from th'eir king, and for them
selves to form a republic, or any other go
vernment, except a monarchy they may
ch&ofe. The answer of the municipality
of Lisle, to the duke Albert of Saxony,
when summOned to surrender the town,
delerves to be preserved—'• We, have
fwdrri a few hours ago, to remain faith
ful to the republic; to defend with all
our force and powers, freedom and E
quality, or to die at our polls—\\ e are
not perjurers."— Spartans could not havrf
answered better."
[ From the journals of a dtbalingfuciely.~\
" Wars have in all ages oeen exceeding
convenient things for governments, whe
ther monarchical or ariltocratic ; and if,
.'i revolving the page 3 of history we ob
- rve horteltr repubiicanifm sometimes at
loggerheads with iurrounding enemies, we
hail generally find it to be a constrained
reiiftance to oppressions and over-bearing
V'irir of the former two. Under any ra
:ional plan of government, mankind would
rarely br never be at war, were it not for
the intrigues of deiiguing characters, the
L - iiiuilrious few," Mho to gratify avarice
or ambition, or both have 111 ail ;.g.es had
the address to set nations together by the
ears It is remarkable that in Furore war
hasahvJiys been one of the eartitft conse
quences of monarchy, as if it had beeit
said by the fates, "Let there be war"—
" and there was war " There is ion e
thing tranfeendentiy '' exalted" and fub
linie in this fentenct, but whether the mo
ney and blood war commonly costs is not
more than adequate to any of the fti'Mime
advantages to be obtained from it—muff
eive us paul'e-—may at lead admit of a
doubt. Monarihv men and arift'ccrat3
have ever supposed a war-office as ne>.e£-
iary an appendage to a well regulated go
vernment, as a band-box is thought to bes
among the female world) to the furniture
of a travelling lady. Eut having grown no
to the age and discretion of 11, en, it ::
rime, brethren, that we put aw ay chiidilh
things. As we came not into the world
armed cap-a-pee, or with horns, hoofs, or
lobiter-claws, tullts, spurs, orfakon-ta
lons. so neither Ought nations or i idividu
als to allow themlches to be pitud
gaffed Sgairifl each other, thro' the artifi
ces of royal knaves, ariltocratic nabobs, or
their wicked coimfeiior for their own
profit or amufetlient. or to gratify the ex
travagance of the pampered vcrn n that
balk in the funthineof corrupted courts."
To the Editur of tbt Nat ion a t GAznjtr.
Mr. F« jMACj
THE fia:c of Kintitck he ',rtsr encreajed lh6
rutnbtr of the emblematic Oars, and afforded an op*
Oct [unity of arru' t.g [bem in a ne'ii t >m —l J< rtl
I jcu the fclLning !> ,Jie ott the jobjeSt. The Njtion-i
il Motto, 'which I lO'.flj to include, •will be a J'ujji*
ient apology for ivriting in LaiiK.
Yourj t is"f• A, B*
Philad. Dee. ic<
* *
* * 4
** * *
******
; ' Barbara Pyramidum ft,eat rriracu'et Metrpblsf*
Heu male fervili ir.armcra ftriifta rr.ar.u !
Libera Jam; i uptis.-Atlantias ora, catenis,
JaiTtatopus Phario marmore nobilius.
Sariique Columbiadx, fa&i raonumenta parintt-ij
Vulgaremlpetr.ur.t fumcre riiateriam :
VlagnAiiimi'calwm fcandunt } perittiraque faxa
Qaod vincat, celfa de Jovis arte petunt.
Audax inde cohors ilellis E Plunbui Vnutn
Ardus Pyramidos tollit ad aftra eaput.
Ergo, Terr.pus edax, qtiarr.via dur.fl",rr.a fcvir
Saxa domas murfu, nil ibi jflris habes.
Dumque polo folitis cognata nitoiibi.s ardifit
Sidera, fulgebit Pyramis ilia fnis.
n 111 ha.— fH Will - ■*— ■■i.JPOi — l iW . .
Sctfi ivll le pub/i/b<.d
v re System of
ohort- c/^dncl,
tljtd by Mr* LU)dy in taking dentin ibt Dcbatis cf
Cohere, —
A SYSTEM Co eai>, that any iTiah, of 6rdir,a
ry ctyidty, may clt-yrly tomprvhepd il ui
hair a-n hour, and <oo» pf&ioe ir, in its Culled
extent, without any further rnfti adiOJ , thaft whac
v*ifl Conve- ed in a revv pages,—(he whohe
being corfiprrifd m e gbtten JivfU r i>hraßeri % with
oi/t any of thofeptryiexing, arDittaiy remarks, witbf
wh«ch the learners or other fyltea»s are obliged to'
burden thei/ memory, and embauaia their prac
tice.
Price, to Subscribers, Or.e Dollar
Sublcribers, a Dollar and bait.
Sublcripuons jeceivtd by Mefixs. Rice, Book-'
fellers, Market-rtre«t, and by
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear ftreef.
Half a Doliar io be paid at ihe lime of
fubicribirg.Conc/ufion of Air. Ames's Speech (from
No. 115J refpeSing a reference to the
Secret ■ry of the Treasury, on the redui.ion
of the Public Debt.
THE expediency of this quertion of re
ferri r>g to the Secretary, which is brought
into dispute involves in it many othdr
which will admit of none. In fraining
the plan of,a linking fund, is the officer ai
the he'd of our finances to have any agen
cy ? If it be said he is not, then, it may be
demanded —why is an idle officer and an
tifelefs office kept up ? Thefenfe of man
kind as ".vdl as the practice of
feeuis to shew that where there are finan
ces there should be a financier ; that he
Ihould ppfiefs at leaf! common talents, anc
more than common induitry in the appli
cation of them to his duty.
This is not a point to be proved now for
the first time. The law of the old Con
gress and their practice were conformable
to this motion. We hear very often oi
the people being oppofWl' to these refer
ences. So far as I have been iaformed the
opposition id a novelty. The law elabliih
ing the treasury department, puffed by a
great majority, and that exprefs'v makes il
the duty of th? Seer ;tary to prepare and
report plans of finance: Scarce a whisper
of objection was then heard in the house,
i and not one, I believe in the country.
Our own practice of referring has paffec
unrefilled till of late. Gentlemen now
(typ >fed to this res rence, have contender
openly and >. w; .-i-ly for references, ii:
one ;:-ftance, repo'leiii rightly, to the
Attorney-General to revise a plan of the
judicial department, and on another to re
quire the Secretary of State to report Or
the .ilea.la for improving our trade and na-
T,i<> ition. T'tefe objects partake as muci
of legillatiorc, and are as incommunicable
as the fnhj?:~t n iifcu'iion. The for!net
votes and arguments of the gentlemen op
posed to {he present reference, afford some
proof of its fitnels as well as conliitution
alvty.
The intrinsic reasonableness of this prac
tice is not less than its authority fro n law
a-id precedent, and what is more, the pre
cedent of it; oppofers.
Private afFairs prosper bv (kill, economy,
and industry, in the manage aent if them.
The finances of a nation, though infinite
Ij more important, require nothing more
than economy upon a great scale. Let
the monied affairs of a country be made
every body's bufinefi, and nobody will lo
it :—Would you have them prosper, let
them be confided to one man, w ho, how
ever, (hall be under the ftr'A contrml o!
the law, and rigidly refponfibie for his do
ings. That man, if he loves an hme!t re
putation as much as a man of common
sense and feelin > may be expected to do,
■will make the public bufinels his own, he
willjjut hi« character at rilk—his time an< !
all his talents will be devoted to the pub'
lie. Such will be his dispositions—'now
what will be his opportunities to render
fervfee ? He will have at one view be
fore him the whole arrangements of fi
nance—the imports and exports, the re
ceipt9 and expendi aires, the operation ol
the laws, the obllacles that impede the
collection, and the means of improving it :
the frauds committe 1 or attempted on the
revenue, and the checks to guard it—the
well-founded objections against the law,
and the prejudices which time or concilia
tory conduit may efface, the appropria
tions of the revenue—the places where and
terms on which loani may be obtained,
as well as the of foreign trade ; the
regulations of foreign nations, and perhaps
it may be added, la fubordif/atfon to the
chief magilt rate, the state of treaties and
neg>.ciationj. It will be seen that the
ordinary discharge of his duty, as well as
that which will oblige him fometinries to
conflict againll prejudices, and sometime;
againlt fraud, will render the details of
finance familiar to him, and will almolt
force him to adapt plans for reducing this
great mass into fyllem and order.
Is it to be denied that, in consequence,
he will possess some means of information
which this house or a committee mud ac
qttire only by How and laborious investiga
tion ? In pursuing it the time might fail,
and the materials get confufed. Yet, al
lowing it effe£ted, they have gained no
more than it is his duty to furnilh on the
order of this house, and this is what we
are contending for. If we nail for it and
he is not able to give it, we fliall thus ex
pose his incapacity or negligence. The
public opinion, thus enlightened, will soon
displace the officer, and a fitter man will
fiicceed him In this way, the people will
exercise an effective controul over their
fervant9.
Be the information given by the officer
what it may, ' - sources from which his
inferences are dmwn, bis fails and reafen-
ings arc publicly exposed. Thr-y are equal
ly in pofTeffion of every me.Tijer, w'n > is
thus placed on an equal, and on the bell
footing to attack or defend the report
iiS much cannot he laid of the report
of a felevSt committee or a committee of
the whole.
It has been intimated, that in framing
a report the Secretary would be liable to
mifinformations to some local or otucr at
tachments, This is pofiiUe, tor he is a
man—but will the Committee be free from
it ? The Secretary is answerable for his
conduit to the nat:on, and certainly he is
not more fubjeck to local partialities than
members are to their refpe£tive diltrifls.
Ihe advantage of impartiality in the fir'i
concoction of a report seems to be evident
ly in favor of a reference.
ft has been faia on the other fide, infor
mation may be wanted, it is true, from the
Secretary, but Irt the houfc firft make pro
gress in the bulinefs, and then receive it
bv a committee advising with the Secre
tary. If this may be done, what becomes
of the constitutional wifficulties and all we
have heard of the transfer of our delibe
rative power ?
But, if we are to have the official in
formation, why (hould we let out without
it ? why /hould it not be given openly, so
as to put all the members on an equality,
and before prepofTeffioris are formed with
regard to plans, which might m ike a J„te
report from the treasury appear to come
m aid of one party or another ? Would the
llvle of declamation be less vehement a
gainlt the fecretcommunications o 1 afecre
tarywith the committee, than againfl a re
port ma.le in the face of day, an 1 fubjeft
to the criricif.n not only of this house,
out o! an enlightened nation ?
It is not to my present design ta all< for
svhat pirpofe of argument or of candour
it i« so often insinuated that the queflion
reallv is, w!, 'her this house shall legidate
r>r whether it hall transfer the power of
laws to the Secretary of the I'teifury.
With all this o'neial information, pre"
foully before us, are we less qualified, or
votl lifpofed ta deliberate ? It would be
: uravagant to affirm, that in proportion
is our means of information are made
complete, we are worse situated to lep'f
ate ; and as to the fpiric of enquiry, I do
nt remembe- that the reports of the fe
rretary have biunted it. From the man
tier in which they have been difcufled
heretofore, those gentlemen will con.idein
t he aftiirance C venture to give them, that
:hey will be thoroughly lifted. They have
net always nafTed unaltered, and never
ivithout passing through the fire of a de
bate.
We may repeat it, therefore, What Co
lour is there for faying that the secretary
legislates ? neither my memory nor my
understanding can discern any. lam
well aware, that no topic is better calcu
lated to make popular impressions ; but I
cannot persuade myfelf, that the people
will charge us with negledl or violation of
duty, for putting ourselves into a situation
to discharge it in the best and mod cir
cumfpeft manner.
There is another ground of obje-Sion
which is urged against the reference : it is
said, it gives undue influence to the trea
sury The reasonings of the secretary,
which accompany his reports, are alledged
to excite an influence which cannot be
refilled. There are two forts of influ
ence; one, which arises from weight of
reason, and the intrinsic merit of a prop
lition ; the other, personal influence. As
to the former, it is hard to conceive of the
influence of reasoning, which cannot be
analysed and made c pable of ex ast esti
mation by the reasoning faculties of those
to whom it is submitted ; and that efli
rnation, be it what it may, ought to ob
tain. No one can with to fee it under
rated.
But we are told, by the oppofers of a
reference, that it is incredible that one
man, be his official opportunities what the'-
may, (hould pofTefs more information than
the members of this house, collected from
every diftrift of the country. Then I an
swer, with inferior information, it would be
impossible his reasoning should over-power
and confound the superior information of
the house. The members w llbe in the less
danger from this officer, if,™ we are tol^,
he is mifinformed by correspondents, ano
has repeatedly discovered, on fubjefts of
revenue and finance, a princely ignorance,
1 his we ate told, however, bv gentlemen
who urge the danger of inde
pendence and our faculties of difcernmeut,
as foo:: 23 vrs fuffer a report, with its rea
fonmsrs, to be made to the house.
If it be pcrfonal influence, independent
ly of reason and evidence, which is ap
prehended by gentlemen opp-)fed to the
sference, for whom do they apprehend
it i 1 for themselves, or for us who advocat
.he motion r Surely if they do not feel
we do not fear it ; we know how to re-
Ipeft their independence of spirit; they
would disdain an imputation of the fort :
their candor will permit us to f-ty, if it be
a n :;fibonrly concern they feel for us,
there is no occasion for it.
On the whole, if we regard the const -
tution, we find not the leafl colour for
bringing it into que.ton on this debate :
the law and usage of the old Congref?
corresponded with this motion. Our own
trenfury law expressly makes it the duty
of the fecretaiy, to prepare and report
plans; and fhal! the prafti eof one branch
run counter to that which is mine the
course of his duty by the law of the land ?
It would be an uncommon and very irre
gular mode of repealing a law. The ad
vantages of this practice of referring,, are
manifelt and great: more information is
obtained, and more order, intelligence and
fyltem a e preserved in the administration
of the fir?:rices. The old Congress and
the several Hates* have exhibit-- •! expenlive
an., deplorable proofs of the evils incident
to the want of order, as well as to the
number of fyiteiHS of finance and finan
cters. With this ma's of evi lence before
our eyes, it cannot be believed that we
(hall take any step which will tend to in
troduce difjrdei and inefficiency into our
llnances.
In the course of the fpiech the following oi-
Jertations were made :
Those who are opposed to receiving
plans from the secretary, mention the fir 11
impost ai\ as a fuccefsful intiance of pro
ceeding wi'hout the alu(lance of the trea
f iry. To this it is r plied, that there is
ho analogy between that cife and this in
debate. Then the treasury law had not
paiTedj and if that department had been
then organized, it Could not have given
the kind of information which is ne .'elfary
at present. The receipts, expenditures
and appropiiations, all our fyflcms and all
our experience have occurred fiuce that
t'.me. We had, in forming the import,
smooth ground to pass over, and the aid
o f ail the local knowledge and local feel
ings of a reprefentat ve body : yet it will
not be said that the success of the pro
ceeding affords much encouragement tc
adopt a fiinilar course on this occasion.
We began that act in April; and tho' we
were losing revenue every day, we did not
compleat it till near Augult : the embar
raffment was not less than the delay ; the
want of accurate information produced
errors and ren'lions, and inceflant flruj;-
gles ; and parts of the ast were repealed,
it i 3 well known, soon after its passage.
t«h»iimh,» ~ ■■ iii i ■■am in ■■linn I
Bank of th 6 United States.
Philadelphia, Not/. 20th, 1792^
rHE stockholders of the bank of the
United States are hereby informed,
:hat according to the statute of incorpora
.ion, a general ele&ion for twenty-five Di
rectors will be held at the bank of the
United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
an Monday the feverrth day of January
next, at ten o'clock in the forenoon.
And ptirfuaat to the eleventh fe£tion of
:he bye-laws the stockholders cf the said
aank are hereby notified to assemble in ge
neral meeting, at the fame place, ou
riiurfday the eighth day of January next,
at five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the Prelidentand Directors..
JOHN KEAN, Cathier.
t. J.
TO BE SOLD,
BY pnblic sale, on Friday the 4th of De
cember next, at three o'clock P.M. at the
'louse of Malkel Mills in Roads town, Well-
Jersey, Cumberland county, a house and lot of
;round, late the property of Ananias Sayre, de
eafed, containing about nine acres situated at a
Mace lenown by the name of Sayre's cross-roads,
v'eft-Jerfey, Cumberland county.- It is in a ve
! healthy, plentiful part of the country, and
Ctuated at the lorth weft corner
if said cross roads. It is particularly well fair
ed tor a (lore, or a tradesman of any description.
•lore need not be said in the place
js it is prefurned any person wanting to purchalc
vould firil lee the premises. Terms of pay
nent to be made known at the time and pla'ct
>f tale—The tale to be made by
LEONARD SAYRE.
Executor to the estate of Ananias Sayre deceased.
Nov. 28. 1792,
For fak, at the printing ojjice, a few copies
of thefirfl vclume of the National Gazetie.
geography,
Mathew Carey.
Refpe£lfu!ly iubmita to the Citizens of the U.i«*
ted States, rhe follo-viog
PROPOSALS
For publishing ey subscription!
An AMERICAN EDITION of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED.
tf "which tbefe are the terms :
I. TT (Kail be publilhed in 48 weekly number 3,
i each containing three Iheets, or twenty
'our pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed
■vith new types on fine paper.
11. la the course of the work will be deli
vered about thirty large maps, of the fame (ize
•s th >fe in the European editions viz. most of
hem Iheet rftaps on pod paper.
£3" Befidei the maps in the Britijh editions,
his iuork -will contain maps of as many of the
Unit'd States as can be readily procured, executfd
h. 'h best engravers in the United States.
ill. Th - price of each number will be a quar.
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery.— [Cj'No ad
vance required.
IV. The work will be put to press as soon as
ioo topics are lubfcribed for.
V. Subscribers who disapprove of the
work, ®n the publication cf the three firft num
bers, are to be at liberty to return them, and
ihall have their money repaid.
VI The fuofcribers' names /hall be prefixed as
matrons of the undertaking.
Perhaps there is no science more entertaining
and ufeful than geography. It reveals the dif
overies of travellers—the remarkable curiofitiri
• I a.l countiies, in nature and art—the fituaci
in of provinces, cities, towns villages, rivrti,
and mount a;ns—in fine, the hiftorv, manners,
. u lonis, la vs, forces, revenues, and government
jf (11 ter en t nations.
It is an old obfeitatioa, that " there is not a
fun dr daughter of Adam, but has foine concern
'"'th geography," anil th'at a knowledge of t:-.;g
Icience is indiipenlable towards the (ludv of his»
Cory with auvantage or fititfadioo. Indeed a
inan unacquainted with it, cannot discourse or*
t.i- nm*.;t c .mmon newspaper topic of the cay
without betra . ing his ignorance.
So much for geography generally. With res.
pe£t to the prefeut plan, let it fuifice to reVnark,
thatGuthrie's Geography has been long acknow.
to be the best in the English language;
however, the account of America in it has, from
obvious reafons,,been very erroneous and defec
tive. The errors of former editions will be cor
ic_;cd, and the defedls fjpplied, by gentlemen of
aoilities, who have engaged to superintend this
undeitaking, and to avail themselves of all the
information that can be procured, to render it
the 1.1 'it complete edition extant.
The Printer earneltly solicits the fjpport of
his tellow citizens throughout the United States :
ar.J as no drpolit is required, and every fubfoi
ber will be at liberty to withdraw his name, jf,
an trial, he /hould disapprove of the work, he
hopes the friends of science, and of American arts
-* ; - nt ano ?a£tu les wil I checrfully and early pat-
this ufeful work, the greatest and most
expeocve, probably, ever yet attempted inAme
r:ca, in the typographical line, the Encyclopadi*
excepted.
Phila. Nov. sth. 1794,
Terres a Vendre
Dans un pais Lien pcuplci—
SA\ OIR, fuixante cinq m>Ue, trois cens, foix*
ante et quatorzc Acres, en une i'eals pieces
dans )e canton le mieux people de la Caroline Me.
ridioaalt, leDiftii&de Ninety Six. Ces terre3
f>nt firuees dans une contree agreable, et falubre,
ou les lievres font inconnuesj a environ vingt lieues
de Colombie, la Capitate, et continues a(a vilie
de Cambiiage, eu il y a Colleger et Cour (upcrU
cure. A environ douze lieues, iJy a bonne navi
ga'ion jet il eft tres probable, que dans queloue
on r ndra navigable le Grand Saiude, rivi'ero
qui arrofe les terres memes. El les lout agriable
rncnt diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons char-nan*
propres a ia culture du tabac, du coton, du mais#
et du petit grain ;et dont une proportion confide.- I
able fe peat aifement convertir en prairies
il n eft peuc-etre gueres poflib'le de renconcrerune-
Jareille piece de terre a vendre dans aucun ajtre
des Erats Unis; et pour ies conditions de I'acU at
on les rendra tres commodes.
S informer a i'imprimerie de la Gazette Na
- nale « Sept.
LANDS for SALE,
TN a well f-ttled Country. SIXTY FIVE
* THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
IEVENTY FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in one
>ody, in the mo# populous part of the state of
iouth-Carolina, in the diftrifl of —It
s lituated in a line healthy climat",free from fever
k ague,about lixty miles from Columbia, the feat
>f government. The land is contiguous to tiie
own of Cambridge, where ar€ a seminary for the
nftruftion of youth, and a Tuperior law court, it
s at present within about thirty-five miles of good
navigation, with a probability of having the river,
al.ed the Great Saluda, that flows along one fide
)f the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
ully diveifified into swells and vaies, and is per
eLtiy well calculated for the culture of tobacco,,
.otton, Indian corn, and small grain j a great
)«oportion of it may be made meadow ground#
ihe;e is not, perhaps, such a body of land, focii
umfUnced, for sale in any other of the U . States.
1 he terms of payment v.ill bp made convenient &o
he purchaler or purchafeis* Apply to the Priuterrf
,awtf
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and SWA IN E s
AT TBlUornci NOl 209, HIGX-STREIT
HEAR FIFTH-STREET^
*HIIABIiPKJA«