Vol. I.
FOREIGN NEWS.
Speech of M. Pethion, Mayor of Pans, aI
t the bar of th: National Affembiyy
France, on ioc 3 d of Aug
<l t! e country is in danger,
VV all her children ought to cling
dose to her, an J ne-.er was the country n.
so imminent a danger as at tlm
We are sent here Ly the commons ol 1 avis
We bring into the fanftuary of the laws
the sentiments of the inhabitants ol an irn
nienfe city. Full of r-ipeft towards the
reprefentative6 of the nation, relying mly
on their patriotic courage, they do not
despair of the public fafety ; but it h their
opinion that, in order to cure radically the
disorders of France, they mult be attacked
at the root, and th; t not a moment is to
be loft It is with {.rief that they, through
my organs, denounce to you the head oj
the executive pover. It is not to be doubted
that the peoule have great cause to be in
censed against him, but the language of in
dignation ill becomes men who have the
power in their own hands. Forced by
Louit XVI, to aceufe him before you ami
before all France, we (hall accuse him
without making use of hitter expressions,
but we (hall not spare him. It is so lon
ger time to make use of that long-tried
forbearance which well becomes a gener
ous people, but encourages kings to be
' euilty of p""jury. The noblest paffijns
iiuft give way, when the falvarion of the
ilate is at stake.
We wil' not del neate the whole conduit
of Louis XVI, from the full days of tli
revolution. We will not remind you of
his sanguinary piojefts againll the city of
! his piej.!
1 bles and the priests—os the aveifioii which
he has mar.ifefted towards the bulk of tht
p eo plc—of the Constituent Aflsmbly be
ing insulted by Valets de la Cour, invest
ed by armed men, wandering about in a
; voyal town, and finding noafy-um, except
j in a Five's Court. We will not remind
you of his oaths so repeatedly broken, nor
' of his renewed protestations so repeatedly
falfified by his adions, until his trea
1 cherous flightopened the eyes ev;n ofthofe
citizens the molt blinded by the c ithufiafm
' of slavery. We wi'l not recall all tha: is
passed over by the generous pardon of the
people ; but there is a difference between
pardon and oblivion. It would be in vain
to drive to forget all his crimes. With
them the historic page will be polluted.
Posterity will remember them.
It is our duty briefly to recall to your
minds the acts of beneficence shewn by the
people towards Louis XVI and the ingra
titude of that prince. How many reaf ns
were there for fettinghim afidea' the mo
' ment that the people regained the fove
reignty ! The remembrance of an impe
rious and deftrr.ftive dynalty among whom
is found one king for twenty tyrants ; th
hereditary despotism encre;:fmg with each
Teign the miseries of the people ; the ' V
lie finances entirely ruined by Louis XV >,
and his two immediate predecessors ! trea
ties the most infamous polluting tl.i na
tional honour ; the eternal -enemies o
France become its allies and its mailers
these constituted the claims of Louis XVI,
to the constitutional sceptre !
The nation, faithful to its character, has
preferred generosity to prudence. 1 lit
defpotof a land of ilaveiy, is become tl
king of a free people. After having a -
tempted to quit France in order to reign
at Coblcntz, he has been replaced on the
throne against. the sense of the nation,
which ought to ha\e been consulted.
Innumerable favours have followed th s
grand ast of generosity. During the lat
ter period of the constituent alTembly we
iiave seen the rights of the people weaken
led, and the royal power proportionably
'strengthened. The fnft public FonSion
i noire is become the hereditary reprefenta
' tive of the people. A military household
has been eftahlifhed to encreaie the fplen-
By p. FRENEAU: Publijhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Thr.le Dollars per annum
WEDNESDA Y, October 3, 1792.
"... •,, 1 iie, an 1 hi? legal authority
his been Supported by a civil lift which has
.i; oi •» i ii.)n those which he has
himl elf been willing to assign to it.
We have too soon seen the generou;
t .ft> ei: >. ; i m ii.- use of as weapons
jt. Th° sower delegated to Louis
XVI, for ihe inaintenar.ee of liberty ha;
armed iv.elf to overthrow it. Le' u» c.sft
cv.r eye <-n the interior puts of the em
•'ire. S"me perverse minifies have bten
'.'ft.-,] i< ive «vay to the irr-.-iiilahle con-
V' nftl.'e -laiion : they are regretted
I y Louis XVI. Their successors warn
-■ , iii and the k'ng of tlie dangers
with' which .he nation is threatened, they
r'e f.rn.d out of 'heir places, for having
c;!:played their civifm The royal invio
labiiny, and the perpetual flu&uation of
inin fters, daily einde the re 1 ponfibility oi
the agents of the executive power.
A set of con/pirating guards are eaQiiered
i , appearance, but they (lill exist ; tuey
urc: Hit' paid by Louis XVI, and they an.
empl.'Vtd in sowing dilrord, and h. '.ten
ing civil war R'ltlcfs pri'Jls, abusing the
p.-.wrr which they have over timid confci
ences, arm children againfl their parrn's,
and 'end away from the land or liberty
soldiers provided with arms, to se r ve undet
the banner of fl^very : theie enemies o
the people are protected by appealin ■ to
the people, and they are authoiiled by
Louis, to conspire againfl tiie nation. D>-
*eflors of departments forming a coalition,
da-e to dfclare themfelv s arbitrators be
tween the national ailembly and toe king.
They form a kind of upper cnamber, di-
Iperfed over the empire. Some of them
"ven usurp a legislative authonty, an*.,
hrough p.ofound ignoranc, while they
.Ltfoia m agaioil xspuiiiieans, they ai.» a'
naking France a federate republic. It is
n the "name of the king that they light the
orch of civil war, and the king has not
lifowned, with indignation, 200 stupid
jr criminal anwinijlrotors to whom the lie
aas been given by the imfflenfe majority
if the adminijlered from one end of France
,o the oth r.
Externally, host le armies are preparing
:.» i lvade our territories. '1 wo deipu s
Dublifh again ft the French nation a mani
etto, a- infolen' at it is abfutd. Freneli
jariicides, led by the brothers, by the re
ations, by the allies of the king, are pre
hg to tier .he bol'om of their country
o pieccs.
Already does the enemy on the fron
iers oppose executioners to our warriors-
Hie national foveceign:y is oucra. Ed with
inpunity on account of Louis XVI It
s to avenge Louis XVI, that the execia
ale house of A u I'm a adds this new chap
er to the hist "y of its cruelties. It is to
svenge L 'Uit XVI. that tyr-mts have a
iopted the wish of C ligula, that the heads
f all the citizens of France might be cut off
it on- p.-'ike.
The flattering promises of a minister
•lave led us to declare war, and we 4 have
-•-un it without a complement of arms,
~-d >hi ; 'iute of every thin, necessary to
atry it op.
In vain does Belgium invite us to het
i\n hofom Pervtrfe orders aamp the
v' air of our foldicrs. Our firll Hep ; intf
hose fine provinces have been m rk
l.y c.-i.fl grations; and the incendiary
itniains in the camp among Frenchmen
A", the decrees issued by the Nationa
Aflemhly for the reinforcement of oui
.roors, are annulled by a refufal to fane
th.i, ihem, or by peifidious delays Ihe
enemy is rapidly advancing, while the ar
mies of equality are commanded by pa
ti ieians, while our generals quit their posts
in face of the enemy, fuffer their armies
to deliberate, report to tic legifla'.ure the
sentiments of the soldiers which they
have no right to give, and calumniate
that f;tc pet.pl- whom it is their duty to
defend.
The head of the executive power is the
the firft link of the revolutionary chain.
He fecm# to have a jhare in the plots of
Piinitz, by delaying so long tom:>ke them
known. His name is the lienal t i dilcord
between the people and their ma. itlrates,
between the soldiers and their generais.
He haß feparaten I.is intereflsfrom thcfeol
the nation. We also separata ours si m
hig. So far from having opposed bimfili
by any formal a&, to our external and in
ter mil • nemie •, hi-c »n<li!'3 is a i jrmal aro
perpetual ast of difobedienee to the con
liitui >011. So long as we (hall have 'u<-h
; kit 1 bcrty cannot be fllalJ IhcJ, aiid
ive are resolved to be free.
F om a remaining grain of indulgence,
its wish we could have desired only the
ulp n icn of Louis XVI, so long aB the
t. untry shall be itl tlanger ; but in this
ve ate opposed by the constitution.—
Louis XVI is perpetually quoting the eon
lit«;ioh; we, in our turn, will appeal to
, and we demand a defcree declaring that
ie has so feited <his crown,
TV.is grand measure once adopte I—as1 —as
t seems very doubtful that the nation
hould place confidence in the present
lyna'.ty- we demand that minitier:, per
sonally refponfible,and appointed by the
M itional Ailembly, but out of its bosom,
iccording to th<? c'*nftitutional law, anc
lamed with a loud voice, by the scrutiny
>f freemen, afTume provilionally tha exe
•utive poorer ; until the will of the peo
ile, our and your fpvereign, dial! be legal
v known in.a national convention, so soon
U the fafctv of the Hate will allow it
In the mean time, let our enemies coir.e
From whei.ee this? will, aflemblc beyond
the frontiers—Let cowards nd perjured
met;, abandon the land of liberty ; let three
I mil ired thousand (laves advance, they
wiß have tooppofe ten mii-lions of free
ing, equ .llv ready far death or vjftory—
fighting to preserve equality, their pa
ternal houfe,J then wives, their children,
■nd their oid men. Let each of us be
! Idiux bv turns, and if we must l.ave 'lit
glory of dying for our country, let each o!
us, before his la ft breath, immortalite hin
f If by the death of some slave or lome ty
rant."
For the National Gazette.
TI'ERE is a description of people,
more or less abounding in every date,
who view the Coiiftitution of the Unite'. 1
St-Us tJ'tmi.'h such a peculiar medium o!
vifun as :o discover not a particle of fp.;'
or biemifh in the whole maifs, it b i:it:
wit); tl-em in every refpfft lotus teres ntqw.
roiundus.—-'I his be well enough
and no one would blame them for fix" ■j:
the! opinion from the information of theii
Iptculwn, were it not that they manifrft I
'e 1 eimined resolution that . very one (lia.
ice in the fame manner, although perhaps
not looking through the fame glass with
thensfelves.
in some dates a man is not reckoned a
good patriot, or at all gifted with civil or
thodoxy, nntrft, previous to receiving any
pull J appointment, he submits to the ob
ligation of ar. 1 g 10113 tell ; as much as to
fiy, Think in all refpefts as we do, even
in the molt indifferent matters, or we will
not be bound to suppose that you are ca
pable or worthy of discharging the duties
of any branch of the magistracy—The
puny efforts of certain scheming gentle
mvn, to depreciate the character of the
N'tion, I Gazette, becai.fe it does not in
every column tfold up to the people abfo
luve perfection in the meafurcs of govern
ment, as "Well as in the government itfelf
puts one in mind of a paflage in Nicholas
Klimius's Subterranean Journey, to the so!
lowing tffeft :
" The name of the next countryl vifitec
(fays he) i» Mardni. The inhahiianti
are all of the fame bodily fiiape, and onh
rliffer in the make and number of theii
eyes. Some have oblong eyes ; fomt
square ; some narrow ; lome wide ; fonu
rre born wish, two, others with three,
others with four. Of all these uibes th;
Numb. 97.
mod numerous, and consequently the moil
powerful, is that of the Kav'ri, or ob
long-eyed ; to v hom all chjetta appear
ohiong Out of this tribe are clu fen the
Governors of the Republic, the Senators,
and the Piefis. Only these fit at the
helm, and a iniit none from any other tribe
to public offices, but such as (hall confi fs,
and confirm their conitffion with , n > . th,
tnat a certain piftur , dedica cd to the
fun, and place? *n the moll confpicu us
part of the tempk, api-? rs to their, ai
well as to the Nag't, I, to be oblong 'I ills
sacred pifturc is -he principal o'> j. ft of the
Mardakan worftiip.. The ir.ott confeien
tious citizens, who are unwilling ti in
cur the guilt of peijury, are excluded
from every public honour; and txpofed
to perpetual insult! and perfecuticn In
vain do they proteil, that 11 ty on' ot
help believing the evidence of their .ye
fight { their complaints are disregarded,
and the defect of nature imputed to mere
malice and contumacy,
" The form of the oath, which ail who
ue for offices ar.d honours, are bound to
übferibe, is this :
I A. B. /wear, that the fscrcd pifiiire of
be fun appears to me to be obiortg ; and I hereby
)romife. toperfevcre in tie jame pinion to the.
iftgajp of my lije.
" After the oath they become candi
lates for employments, and are elected
nto the tribe of the Nagiri.
" The day after n.y arrival, while I
,vas walking at try leisure in the market
place, 1 iaw an old man dragged to the
vhipping-poft, surrounded with a numer
nis cioud of citizens, who abused him.
(vith the utmost virulence. I enquired what
,vas the matttfr, and was told, that he was
i vile heretic, who had openly taught th t
he piftuie oT the fun w;:S fqtnre, .nt hat}
jbilinately pei filled in that peftihfnt opin
on, after repeated admouitioi s.
" Upon this I resolved to go myf If to'
he temple of the fun, and try whether my
:yes were orthodox. Wnen I found that
0 my eye fight too the picture ajpearid
1 peifeft fqture : I candidly menciomd
he circumitance to my h> i(, who was la
ely advanced to the cdilefhip ofihe lty.
He'heard my words with a deep lit'H, -nd
airly owned, that he sslfo [ought the
jiciure square, but d red not to discover
lis sentiments, :or te'jr the rcigr.inyj
jarty Qiould brtn him i to trot' c, ~"i
ieprie him of his oSice,
" I therefore quitted the ci f v in fix-nce
'nd tremhl n, , kit I -
"ult of my eyes with lite l.dso: my fer $
jr be* branded with the odious title l of hft e
:ic and be fauiihed with il rnce. : 'l
"ast no institution* ever fecnieu to me •
more hortid, more barbar>us !•«* h■' •
yt'rcnnj. and I in»:tgbtii •' e K st
i government, where the only oad to
honours and emoluments lay through hy
procrify and peijun.''
LONDON, Aug. 7.
Circumflantial account of'.he cttaokof the
Auftrians upon the French
Rationed at Orchict.
"A nobleman, belonging to the French
emigrant party, in the A uftriau Nether
lan is, and who was then at Ltfi-. gave the
A uftriau general private ir.teh'g" cc '*■' out
a for»night aeo, that the fiench t.:.d hut
4 O men, ant' these of*, he na'ioi-.a!; vr.rds,
at Orchies. The general upon thi.--- lent a
detachment of between two and th ee
thoiifu d men to make them prtfoners ; but
the French perceiving them coming, drew
up, and ported themselves with two pieces
of cannon in a gentleman's gan .n that
commanded the read On the fir!' fire
'hey killed, at report fays, 64. Auftriar.s,
On the second one of their cannon burit.
rhey kept up, however, a severe fire witk
their muiketry and the one piece of can*
non they had left, till their am munition
was entirely gone, when they made an
honourable and £:fe retreat, Of iksFrench four were killed, on tin's occasion,
and iotir of the villagers aflafiinated by
the Außrians on tJieir entrance inti> Or
chies. On the Autlrian fide tKe molt
favorable accounts make 460 1011. This
loss however wjis so great', that when the
general, by the returns given him, after
their return 10 Tournay, fawthe number
or killed, wounded n'iid miffrng, he declared
it could not be, such Eli havoc could e«er
have been made by 400 men ; and threw
out inlinustions as if the officers had be
trnyed the men. These inlinuationt were
conveyed in lime to the foidiers, who three
'or four days ago rose in a tumultuous man
ner, wnd fvfcore they would not be led any
more like (beep to the (laughter for other
people. Soon after this they proceeded
to rioting, and laid hold of iix emigrants,
whom they conducted to the gallows. Of
these they hi.ng five. The fixih was cut
down alaioll on tlie moment of fufpcnlion,
I J persons present, who attempted to rea
son with the foldierson their conduct. The
calm however was only temporary, and
when the teropell broke out again, the
general ordered the gates to be (hut, and
they have continued so to this day What
has been going on within the walls of
Tournay, since the time of its being lock
ed up, nobody here knows. But before
they wet e locked up a p rfon got out of
the town, who conveyed the above news
to a gentleman at St Qmei's, among o
thers, the <father of a young piieft, who
was cut down from the gallows, as related
above. The above si uation of tilings
may be very favorable to the affairs of
France ; for it is a proof that the German
soldiers begin to think for themselves, and it
is perhaps the firft inllance of their op
poling their own officer?.
The Declaration of the Duke of IJrunf
wick, is attributed in a great measure
to the per. of Calonne. It certainly
possesses all the fury of that paflionate de
claimed and is a masterpiece of bombast
and gasconade. There is nothing occur
red iince the French revolution, that has
fcrved more to cement the French nation
in the general «use than this injudicious
publication.
Bniffils, Aag. 3, —The evacuation of Bavay.
ond-roifing the camp c: Malplaquet, were not
effected without a very {erious aflion, which took
place fn the ni'The Auflrians had two
captain* ot'grenadiers, a Hungarian captain, two
flrii lieutenants, in all 15 officers killed.
On the fir It at night 32 wagons came into
this town loaded with sick and wounded men ;
SO.more waggons are expe6fed this day, The
French have foraged over the whole province
of Luxemburg!], and flopped all communication
between the fortreUotlhat name and the Pays
lias. They have seized a quantity of provisions
and ammunition which they found 111 ihe Ab
bey of SamtHubert, at Ballogne, and at Allons.
Leyden, Aug. 2 —Mr. Schroter, of Lilienthal,
has lent an account to the Royal Academy at
Gottengen, of some important dilcoverics he
has mad£ relative to the planet' Venus by'the
help of his Herl'chel's telefcofje. He has not
only found his conjeQures respecting the height
of the mountains in that planet confirmed, one
of them being according to his calculation five
geographical milrs and fix tenths high, but has
also determined the time of its revolution on its
axis. This he has alcertained, 'torn the perio
dical changes in the form of its horns, particular
ly thefouihern one, to be 23 bouts, 20 mil).
59 fee. 4 half fees.
Copy of a utter fom M. I\ou.i.da(rd July to, t" 9c,
TO JAMES MACKINTOSH, ESQ.
" Our friends complain that I have not
convened the Stewards of Jaft year to re
new the celebration of the 14th of July.
Circumftancex have changed—the motives
of my conduit remain the fame. If you
approve my reasons, your authority will
have weight with others.
" When the-wild publication of Mr.
Burke was proclaimed the creed of all
who frequent a court, or trade in politics,
and when violence was threatened to all
•who presumed to think the deftruftion of
despotism in France a bleHing to mankind,
to refute his reafbning", and, like men, to
avow our fentiinents by affs of public cele
bration, was the duty of the friends of
freedom. All Ktteinpt is now made by our
adversaries to'gtve a different direction to
the public mind. That the reasoning on
:which the French Revolutio.i has been ju
ltified is theoretically true, fluids now uni
versally admitted. But an alarm is excited
of these truths being pulhed to an £xtSme;
•which in praftice,they fay, would subvert th<?
order of society. The cry of danger to tile
Constitution is now railed by the traders in
politics, as the cry of danger to the church
was in the beginning of this century, by thd
traders in religion, and the enemies-os free
dom hope again to confound th? reason of
the people by their palfipns. Proclamations,
Addrefles, Encampments, have no other
-obje£l. Let us be careful not to aid the
arts of »ur adversaries, and these follies
will confute themselves, Let the public
mind be cairn, and die people mitl! soon
discover, tliat laws eaafted by common
'conlent, and dire£ted to the ennunon be
nefit of a whole? coiuinuiiity, nuift command
the H.olt obcdience, ajud that obedi
ence to laws, gives peace and order to so
ciety. Our adversaries reason, as if the
principals of social order had no ixiflence
but in the brtfalis-of mercenary fokiiers,
and ot thole public plunderers, who hare
the direction of this force. \ et, who can
fail so observe, that the one party, from
the Royal conspirators at Piluitz, to the
loweli agent in the Birmingham riots, uni
formly appeal to force, the others to reason?
Who then are the friendsof peace. ?
" Many are alarmed for the common
cause of human kind, now Inflamed by the
French nation. 1 ain confident whatever
the immediate events may be, they will fi
nally triumph. This infamous attempt,
by fire and sword, to prelcribe how a peo
ple (hall govern themselves, this outrage
on humanity, will awaken ail indignant
feeling in mankind, too powerful for the
mechanical force of all the governments
in Europe. Its Monarchs are formidable
in prefetlt power. can inflict much
evil —but the evils they inflict will multi
ply the friends of France in every corner
of Europe , and the ultimate event will be
the dellruftion of Monarchy. If the friends
of Monarchy and of the Ariftocracv rn this
country were wife, they would endeavour
toarreit the of royal desolation
ttbroad ; and at borne, by a temperate but
fnicere reform of acknowledged abuses,
exhibit thele powers under the endearing
aspect of pro.eefors to the common rights
ps mankind. -They ouglit to reflect how
fniall i-s the uumber of tiiofe who fatten oa
tiie public spoil, compared with those who
Tuftsin the weight of oppreflive taxes —that
the fraud cannot long be concealed under
the vain and empty torms of nominal re
presentatives of the people, who ate real
peiifioiiers of a court —that the molt uncul
tivated ihind mnft comprehend his own
immediate interest in correfHiig a system,
of which the dircfl and indirect corruption
demands in time of peace, at leofl [wo
millions of unnecefl'ary annual taxation,
[.betides generating a principle «f public
profufion, progrefiively incieafing, which
lias already ac.iimulated two hundred and
forty millions of debt, and threatens bank
ruptcy to the country- In my judgment
the event is inevitable. Whether it (ball ap
proach with the mildness of peaceful reform,
or the fury of fubverlion, mult depend on
the choice of the ariUocracy —whether
vrili ele£t to be the leader", or arrange
themfelvesagainft tiie people. Those who
think ivith u% onght to conciliate, not in
flame, and to take from our adver'irAes
even the pretext for tumtdt. Under ' bit
inijircffion have I acted ng,
as far as lam concerned, from the mer
cenary tools of power, the occasion ofpre
'teiided alarm, by a celebration as unnectf
'fary to the cause, as it Is free from rational
■objection to an intelligent or candid mind.
As I fhatl be fenne days in the country,! wish
you to communicate my apology to our
friends."
It is faitl, a general dlflatisfaftion pre
vailtartiolig the A'lll'trrian troops in' Fla
nders ; that 111a.iy deferaers had come over to
the French, and that it requires (he duty
of one half of the soldiery to guard the
other from deiertion.
The Kin;', of Poland has declared the re
public so be iti ftiUi a slate of defence, as
the enemy may find it very difficult to di
fttirb. Meanwhile the Poles may mingle,
with patriotic ardour, the comfortable
hope, that their hoary perfircntor wilt soon
be dragged off that stage of exifterfce,
which, for the lins of Europe and Asia file
has been permitted to drench with human
blood so long.
CHARLESTON, Sept. 6.
At a meeting-os tbe inhabitants of Port-
Royal lfland, affembkd in the town of
Beaufort, in order to corifi.lir the fub
flance of certain refolutioi.s us the in
habitants of Charkfton, tratifmitted to
them in a lettei from Col. Jacob Read,
as chairman of the commitiee of the ci
izms affembkd at Charleftoti.
Rtfolved uranimoufly,
THAT whilst we conlldcr it as incon
fident with the principles of the conltitu«
tion of the United States, and the rights
of our filler Hates, to enter into any gene
ral agreement of non-importation,by which
they are immediately affefled—we at the
lame time consider tfeadmiflion of Haves,
or other persons convi&ed of crimes, into
this Hate, as being highly impolitic and
dangerous to the citizens thereof. And
we are informed from' authority, that per?
sons from some of our filler Hates, regard
lefsof that spirit of amity and friendly at
tention that ought to unite us to each
other, have tranfportcd some of the.motl
dangerous of this description amongll us ;
and as a difcriminauon between those
transported or sent for sale, is at present
impossible; We, finding our
fclvcs unproteifled by any law of tlu'a state
froVn tlic fatal consequences which may
attend this unwarrantable procedure—
Rtfoivetl, That until the next meeting
of the legislature of this state, and for
twenty days after flic adjournment of the
fame, we the fubferibers bind ourselves,
and pledge our sacred honor each to the
other, not to purchase, fell, possess or em
ploy any slave brought into this state ; and
to have no intercourse with any person
v. ,o rtiall tvilfully ast in opposition to this
resolution.
Refehed, That eveiy captain or com
mander of any veffe'. coming into this port,
who fnall have on board his veflel any
slave, transported from another state, on
account of any offence therein committed,
or sent for sale, ftial! be furniflud with a
copy of these rcfolutions.
Resolved, That a committeepf five per
sons be appointed for carrying fully into
execution the purport of these rcfolutions;
and that general John Birnwell, majors
Robert Barnwell and William Haz.atd
Wigg, Messieurs John Verdier and Ro
bert Porteous, be the said committee.
PHILADELPHIA.
October 3.
F.xlraß (f a letter from Pittflurg.
" From present appearances we have no
reason to expect even a temporary peace
with the hostile Indians. From the rno/t
authentic information we can hear, and
from various corroborating reports and
communications, we have every ground to
conclude, that they Iwve deliberately, .and
by tie voice of.cpnncil, maflacred those
men who bore to tiiL l the flags of pe->ce.
This barbarous violation of the laws of alt
nations, savage as well as civiliztd, can
admit of no mitigation ; and the national
character and honor of America Stands
bound to punish, with the mull exemplary
Severity arms can infiift, thirfavage infiilt.
They feeni to be pofTeflid of the molt im
placable Spirit of ferocity, and ridicule the
idea of a peace or treaty. They kuigh at
the foily, as they term it, of tho '.lags
who committed t-hemfeWes j and , urthea)
to death, to Shew, at once, their cwiicript
and resolution.
\TravJlations from the Leyden Gazetteofthelatrjl
dates.']
View of the political fauation of fevcral
European powers, Thretpett to t'rifitee.
IT was forefeen from the very com
mcncemenr of the French revolution, that
! it would excite numerous anil powerful e
| nrfnies against that nation. Inter:.ally,
i those whose interelts were injured bv the
j change in the government, and confeqtient
)v their paflioos and prejudices inflamed.
Externally, the enemies of the devolution
were those delpotic princes, who were a
larmcd for their- arbitrary power, or wil
ling to profit by the intestine divisions aiki
j parties through the kingdom, were deter
; mined to make the most of them fC-r their
| own emolument. At the'commencement'
of the revolution the univerfa! state of
| thing' feetucd to favor it. RnfTia.was em -
j barraffed with- a double warfare against
Sweden and Turkey. Austria was ex
hausted by three brilliant but ruinous cam
paigns ; conquering barren defarts in the j
east merely to restore them again, and se
riously engaged in the weft in reconquer
ing her revolted provinces ; and" menaced
more or less with popular infurreftions in
the different parts of her extensive domini
ons. Pruflia, whose intrigueshad in a great
measure contributed thus to embarra's her
rival, was only watching ail opportunity 10
declare herfelf openlVi to give the last fatal
Wound to the AuStrian power. England
and Spain upon the Mimt of declaring war
on account of lomc fl((Jkched factories on
the other fide pi the grebe, and merely to
fuppor.t a petty mercantile interest—All
Europe, iu short, was more or less at vari- :
ance with itfelf, either from the ambition
of its' leading powers, or from the general
discontent ot the people, in whom the ex
ample of the French hud awakened an idea
of their own Strength and power. But the
views of the several powers are now, in a
great measure, changed—the paflions of re
gal powers have assumed another charac
ter : we must therefore make new calcula
tions from the relations that actually exiSt.
It ought not to be concealed, that there
exists in every court of Europe, almost
without exception, a spirit direfily and
pointedly inimical to thoie principles' of li
berty that form the bafts of the French con
stitution. But we must look farther for
the cause of their enmity to the revolutiqn
than mere Speculative opinion. The house
of Auftna, faithfully adhering to her plans
of hereditary ambition, has viewed the
troubles of France as likely to contribute
to'her own aggrandizement ; and having
gained so far upon the court of Prtiffia as
to prevaii upon it to change its former po
licy of real intefeft. She proposes to assume
to herfelf. the advantages that may arise
irutu discord aud party ipiric iu France, —
Although the infraction of the treaty of
1756 ought to have more weight than mere
ly French principles In alienating the court
of Vienna, it appears that the present war
against France is not viewed with a favor
able eye by that power. The court of Ber
lin seems to take a decided part agaiuft
France, altho' Frederick can only be re
garded as the ally of the king of Hungary
and Bohemia. T his dc tided spirit, howe
ver, is not the general spirit of Prutfia, any
more than of the llatefmen and the old ge
nerals who were formed in the fcho«>l of the
great Frederick.. This monstrous alliance
between Pruflia and Austria, which threa
tens the independence of the Germanic
body, cannot be lading, even tho' founded
upon a partizan treaty, and Prulfia were
sure of feeing France once more her natu
ral ally. The difpolitions of the electors
ot Treves and Mayence are 110 less decided
against Fiance than the others. Nothing
has induced them to temporize with France
but the dread of feeing Iter armies in their
territories. lift We ele&orates the French
emigrants have conflantly found an asylum
and protection ; so that France has a right
to consider them as artnally her enemies.
It would be almost fuperfiuous to be very
particular in refpeft to the designs and
views of the Germanic, body; ia general,
they are by no means favorable to France,
and wher. they are, are watched with such
a jealous eye by the majority, as to render
their friendfhip inelfethnl. The neutrali
ty of the Emj.ire is therefore a thing not to
be relied oil'; for, among such of the prin
ces as embrace th; t fyttem, there are leve
rs] who will view matters in a diii'erertt
light, when they fee their fiates guarantied
by the arms of Prussia Stui Aultria. Their
contingent, however, will not be formidable,
both from their slowness in colleftlng their
j troops, and the charter they alWayS fftf
! tain, whenraifed. It is probable therefore
that the contingent of the princes will be
optional, •" money or troops ; the former
of which will be the readied ren- idior). Af
ter the ceremony of the coronation of the
emperor, it may be expected he will pub
liih a decla' ation, urging the Emptre to . ar ;
which decoration will effectually c*;plaipt
to the French the real intentions of the fe—
veral German courts, Th.e empress of Ruf».
fia has not beharcd towards France witht
that treacherous difJimuJatioH, and duplici-•
ty of sentiment. that for>a lontf Mile atfirOt
kept them in the dark rMpcfting the ret* I
deligns of the courts of Vienna an.! fJ rlin .
She from the beginnir .h -.hired herfeif th«r
er.emy of their revolty/tor- and the protrc—
trefsofthe emigrants. S'e was a priuci •
pal agent in the concert ot poy/ers r at a. 1
early period broke oft id! communlcatjo. 4
with the French,governnieuß, and \yas thej
IlUl'Ll) to mt sa l Sir?' "coiiveiition"air
Pilnitz. Her alliance with the late king or
Sweden seems to h tve had ivfSther object;
than to form a general combination against
France; her pecuniary ftv.voyrs given to
the emigrants ; the honor (he did the emi
grant princes in fending ministers to their
court at Coblenc.e ; her rigorous edicts a
gainst the French that were fettled in Rnf
lia, when fufpefted of attachment to the
national cause ; all these particulars seem
to point out Catharine the 2d as the impla
cable enemy of France and her liberties.
Her condufl has been uniform on tjiis princi
ple,but managed with some secrecy till such
time as (heTaw Prussia firmly linked in with |
Atilrria, and ready to engage the'Frencli on,
the banks of the Rhine." The Rnfiian-po-1
licy then was developed, and it began to be
perceived that as France was too remote
for the empress of Rnflia to hope to Ihare in
her spoils, Poland bccanie a more intereft
iug object. The invasion of that republic
by the whole Ruffian force, the inactivity
in fitting out fleets of war from the Ruffian
ports, and the neglect shewn to the illuttni
ous French emigrants at the court of Pe
| teriburgh, lead one to believe that all the
: empreis had m view was to deceive the
court of Berlin in regard to her real de
ligns, and that Poland and not France was
from the beginning the object of her plans.
From the very latest advices received from
Peterfburgh, the French emigrants have no
thing more to hope for from that quarter ;
and their envoys, who were.there negoci
ating for squadrons and land forces, have
only been able to obtain one frigate, and
that one was equipped solely to rid Russia of
their company and folititatiohs—The death
of Gnftavus 3d seems to have changed th®
politics of the court of Sweden. The re
gent never approved of his brother's view*
and projeas ; and it is eaty to fee that he
will not fulfil his inconsiderate engage
ments. He dares not however rafhly'cou
tradift the opinions of the emprr fs of Rus
sia ; and it »ill require his btfl political a
biliiies to rid himfelf from The obligatory
claofes of a formal recent treaty. ThU it
the reason that the court of Sweden has n®":
yet relumed its official correspondence with
the French court, nor acknowledged the
new constitution. But the vrtft attentipn
that is shown to the French charge des affair a
at Stockholm, and the free admiflion of the
Frcnch national flag into all the Swed! fli
ports, together with their dilgracing tjie
two miniflers who were oppor j to Franci;
the total want of naval or military
tions, are (trong arguments that the neu
trality of Sweden may be depended on •—»
As to Denmark, it has been lie 1- sole poliiy
for a long tiuis to reman a quiet fyeetativof the quarrels that agFtated th? reft of En
rope. This moderate conduit ensures her
peace and prosperity. The present Da.uifh
imtiifter is a man of too much underftand
j ;g to abandon the pacific system of his
country. The rnoft exaif neutrality may
therefore be countcd on from Nth is power,
since its justice, interest, and long c-Kpen
ence of the part are equally concerned
therein—Sardinia has long ni "Vfefted her
-1 elf hoftilely inclined toward) Franc?. The
conrtant asylum she affords the emigrant
princes, the interest (he takes in rheirper
fonal concerns, her refufal to. receive the
French minifler, the preparations Ihe is ma
king so far beyond her ability, the camp of
lo,coo Anfhians that is to be formed after
harvest at the port of Torto ia. and her ac
ceflio.u to the Vienna and Berlin alliance,
are all proofs that France ought ftriclly to
" -watch the motions:; of this poWe-.
\Tobe continued. ]
Nothing shows in a {Ironjifer light the
rooted inveteracy of thelndianthan their
putting to death every flag, tit„t has been
hardy enough to approach them. Captain
Snake, a chief belonging to tiie Minifee
(friendly) tribe, was sent sometime fiucc
tvith a uieffage to the hostile nations but
Was killed at one of the Delaware towns,
the moment he made his business known.
\Ve are conflantlv amufrd with the moH con
tradictory account- fio -;. different parts of F'ift
relative to the actual (late of that
iflancT. Some letters represent matters as,,
upon the whole, growing ; others,
that the negroes continue maiterj of the
open country, and their ravages little, Wat
all, abated. Wlimi the lafl veflels came
away, t fleet of men of war tvas looked
for, with Cf. or seven thousand land forces
to quell the insurrection.
The following gentlemen have been re
commended by a number of the stock
holders.in the New-Jersey mmufnftunng
society, as properperl'ons for Dikector.s :
Nicholas Cruger, Cornelius Kay, James
Wati'on, Ab iah Hammond Nicholas Low,
Benjamin Walker, John Bayard, James
Parker, Herman Le Rov, Samuel Ogden,
Joliah Hornblower, Elilha Boudinot. °
On Wednesday the 26rh ult. was Held
the annual commencement at Nassau
Hall, in Princeton, New-Jersey. The
following exercises were delivered at the
church to a numerous assembly convened
on the occasion. — r A salutatory oration in
latin, by Alexander While, of Virginia. 2. An
oration on poetry, by John C. Otto, .of New-
JeiTev. 3 An oration on Mathematics»
by Charles Harris, of North-Carolina. 4. A
. dispute on the utility of war to mankind,
IkJn preference to _g
perpetUHl peace : '' efpondent, Jopptt K.
Milnor, of Nevv-Jerfev ; opponent, Robert
Herriot o ; South-Carolina ; replicator.
Georrre Bibb, of Virginia, t. A humorous
oratior. on the marks of genius. In
C Maxwell, of New-Jersey. 6. A d.fpure j'
W.rether the ancient ea!h-rncnflom of di- ,
Vidiug the people into different clafl'es, and '
confining ch'ldren to the profeffion of their '
fathers, be preferable to the tmiverfal free- '
dom of enrerprife that prevails in Europe : '
refpoudent. G'orge IV. Morton, of New- Yor ;
opponent. James Ruan of St Croix; repli
cator, t'enjamin Hcdgdon. of Pennsylvania. 1
•7. An euloj; um on Columbus, by George '
Willing, of Pennfvk'ania 8. An oration
on sympathy. by Edmund J Ice, of Virginia. 1
9. An English salutatory oraiipn, by Peter I
Carle, of Georgia. io. An oration on So
ciety, by George W. Burnet, o f New-Jersey. •
it, A dispute, Is not the belief of a re
vealed religion eflential to the ortler and
exigence of society? refpondeflt, John J
Sayrs. of New-Jersey ; opponent, Jefcph Al- '
txander, of N>l tli-Caroiina , replicator, '
Henry of New-Jersey. 12 An ora- I
tion 011 the happy deliverance of Europe '
from the tyranny of superstition. 13. -\n (
oration, on the condition of an old bache- '
lor lately married, nj. Adifpuce, Ts .there t
any evidence from the radical resemblance *
of the languages of different nation', that I
mankind have fpru-p frdln one source : '
respondent, Wlliam Sloane, of New- Jersey, 1
opponent, Jaco6 Ford, of New- Jerfev ; re- J
plicitor, Lewis Pmtard, of N*?w- ferfey *
15. A dispute, Is the emancipation of'(laves, 1
Withoutpreparing them by a proper educa- '
tion to be good citizens, confident with '
humanity and found policy ; refpontlent,
A?rholos Bayard, of New-Jersey j opponent,
William Ho/ache, of New-York. 16. An 1
oration on the progress of freedom in the' c
European slates, by ]chn Ryerfs, of New- ;l
ork.—The degree of Bachelor of Art' 1
was then conferred on the above named
young gentlemen and ten others. The de- a
gree of A, M. was likewise confetTed on
federal gentlemen : vittors on competitions- 11
declared : and the exercises then concluded '
with the valedictory oration, delivered by '
Jefeph Reed, of Pennlylvania. a
Extra£l of a letter from a gentleman in Nafli- t
ville, dated July 16. t
" On the 26th of June,' Zeiglet's flation, r
vuhin two nules of Bledfoe's Lick, was attack- t.
Ed by a party of Indians, firft in the afternoon
and again by night, in which five peifons were £
killed, one burned in the station, four wounded, [
thieeefcaped unhutt, and thii teen msde pttfon- 1
ers, the latter mqftly helpless women and inno- °
epn{ children c
1- '' Tl'is trthe boHed stroke ever made by In
■ r ciians iri this quarter, and has spread a more ge
)i n:'ra! alarm than has heretofore been felt. The
[_ inhabitants bctjtn to complain loudly that thc^
are negl-r&ed, and even altnoll to despair ol
v 'he protection of government; but Governor
Blount, lince his arrival, has qrdered thiee bun
_ dred mi itia into a&ual feivice, undertbecom
J mand of ma jor Sharpe, an old, experienced eon
_ tmental oflicer, for the protection of the south
:• WrOem ftonricrs, ported at proper diflances, 111
tj well built blook-houfesand llockade forts, which
. iiai in a great tneaiure relieved andfiienced their
e tears and complaints : Those pofls will, I hope
- be kept up while the.danijdt exills, if not aug
f nv.'ntci]; (ofhat in my opinion the people of this
r diftiifl will be in a better situation th in they have
. heretofore experienced. During this summer
■ , on the frontien, while one manwoiked another
0 was obliged to keep centry. •
" A large reprelentation of the Chtekafa\\>s
and Choflaws are, here, weil disposed towards
the LfnttedStates,and it is expetled the Governor
» v. ill fhottly conclude his conference with thein
~ A party of Cbeiokee.s, arc also here, whoac
-1 coinpamcd the boats with the Indian goods down
, the Tennf flee, from Chauntiga to the mouth ol
, Bear Ctet k, by whom we learn the passage thio'
. the Mulde. Shoals was not found lo difhcuit as
r was apprehended. Thefc Cher-oke&sgive infor
mation. that a large party of Creeks had passed
the Feneffee on then way to this country to
. take hair ,/ncl Ileal hoifes ; as yet thev have tak
en no hair, although thev daily sue 011 parties as
- they are paiiing thiough the fetilemenis, but
taken about feventecn ho; fes since the Gover
noi'l arrival.
" By this lavage ar.d faithlefs tribe, upwards
■ ofleventy people have been killed, wounded,
. and taken prifo:tc« since their treaty at Ww-
York, entered into by Mr. M'Gilliviay.
; "It is here believed from a vanety of con
current circumOarices, that M-Gilltvray him fell
has deserted the interefH of the United States,
and attached himfelf to the Spanifti interest. It
is beyond all doubt, he is gone to a conference
with the Spaniards at Pcnfacola, accompanied by
,1 large party of his warriors, confiding of about
three hundred. j'anton, the great Indian tra
der, of Pcnfacola lias been engaged by the Spa
niards 10 bring about th'.s meeting of the Creeks,
and hath alio hecn among the Cherokecs to
' bring them into the meafurc, and hath applied
■ o the Little f'uikev to obtain leave for the
Spaniards+o eftaalifl) gafiifons on the Tcnelfee,
and one even as high up the fame as the mouth
of of ar Creek.
" John Watts, a Cherokee chief, with a few
otheis, have attended at that treaty for purpose.v
which are yet unknown. No doubt he has paid ;
well for Watti as he has been before atuched
to (he United States."
London accounts are received at New-
York, till the 24th of August. According '
■ Trr'tfre.TT'fhi - kirrjoi Fr:rnc? was cfethronerf |
—the royal faintlv dOriged to flee for fafety ,
to the i.at>onara!!iml>iy— that. In forcibly (
dethroning the motta.-th, the guards witli
ttood the people,till rnoft of them [the j
guard*! were cut tifF, after having killed
ipii ard:, ol' one thousand of the peopie—
that the Marquts de la Fayette wasdifpla* "
ced ; and that the Jacobins had offered a
reward for his head, and the heads of fume ,
other leading men.
Oil the Bth of August Mr Pinckney, the t
American ntinifier, had his firft audience of' i
the kiifg 'of Great Britain, whefl he deliver* i
ed Jiis credentials. He was introduced by I
Dtmdas, one of the principal Secreta- I
ries of State, aid by Mr. Cotter ell, de- j
pucy mailer of the ceremonies.
\
Short view of thi rrjpetiive power, refoarces, &c
----of the principalpowers combined ageiir.Jl Poland i
and fiance. 1
Rujjia is an empire as lingular in its pre- 1
sent it..te as it was in its commencement. I
It exhibits tiie piffure of North America in <'
Europe, or an old country and a new conn- \
try combined into one. Its population 1
(owing to e.ify of fubCftence render- '
ing marriages early and frequent) augrneu- 1
ting one fifth in every twenty years, in de- 1
fiance of public and private despotism ; its '
partial luxury, in the midst 3
of wildernesses ; cabinet at the £
h.ead of a ftmi barbarous nation; its firm, r.
yet docile people; it's peafautrv awed bv
" heir-matters, yet brave v. Iven soldiers'; 1
from ftime of its eontrafled circumstances,
and, together with the followmg particu
lars, render Russia infinitely formidable.-
V\ ith thirty millions of people, thus rapidly I
ai d progrefTively increafing v fl\e is placed I
invulnerable, in the north-eallern corner c
of Europe, out of the reach of all maritime 1
approaches, though herfelf poffefling a con- }
nderable navy for offeidlve pUrpofes. She, ;
ha- al.o myriads of disciplined troops, apd 1
a peculiar force in light troops for keeping 1.
|'u-> we large extents of couniry; and al-' y
rnoft all her troop; combat With the advan
tage of certain religious prejudices, which
ielfen the terrors of death, and are peculi- }
arly hardy and capable of fatigue. Her .1
empire is vast indeed in its'extent, but her c
roops, her iailors, and her stores, move 1
through it with incred ble celerity, owing f
io the water communications, and to the i
abundanae of horses belonging to her pea- a
fantry, which admit of conveyances by poll, a
either in waggons, or else in fledges upon c
the snow, both for iter forces and for wjir- t
like stores. At the end of her lafl war but c
one, (he remitted taxes ; and at,the end of f
the war jull concluded, Ihe has not aug- t
tuented them. She loses fubjectj war, c
but replaces rhem by those whom the ran
jjii'fhej, or by the excels of the number
c barn from her own people over thole
/ which die ; Hie increases, therefore, both
I in war unci in peace ; and it is this fileut
r or this furtive increale of men, accompani
ed at th* f ame time with au augmentation
o. cultivation, of arts, and of Wf ,Uth. which
unnoticed by the reft of* .Europe, enables
her, upon every struggle, to appear with
i renewed ajid accumulated ftreiljjth. Laft
i .y, she iljii ts the whole northern frontier
r of Aha, Ihe pofTeffes the means of attack
: ing its rich weflern flank completely from
north to (outh ; add is not without access
■ to its eastern flank, and to the rich miqes
: of Western America; but above all, in
r consequence of Having the means of inva
ding the Indian poflt fiions from the north,
facilitated by the help of water carriage
i 011 great lakes and descending rivers, a .
i well as by having a probable opportunity by
the aid of Austria, of commanding the two
navigations of the Red S?a and Perlian
Gulph, (he seems to drawclofe to the mo
ment of obtaining poiTefGon of the commu
nroation between western and eai'tern nati
ons, which in all ages at the world has uni
formly a <1 iignaliy aggrandized thole who
have heltj it. In one wprd, Ihe is become
the m >de-;-ij northern hive, pouring forth,
lot difotderly. but Hiarfhally and obed ent
warm -, increasing yearly in their numbers
,by land and by sea, all recognizing a com
in )ii phief. v.liofe watchful eye; turn a
'ike to the east and to the weft, looking for
opportunities of plunder, either in, compa
ny or alone, while she renders barbarians
her immediate instruments, and the rich
her certain virtims.
Auftnaisthe power next in order. With
fewer vacant lands, and thinly scattered settle
ments, than Rufli.i, she has ueverthelefs in her
eafternlerritoues ihe means, by better manage
ment of greatly augmenting the people, now ai
mounting to twenty millions,, and Ihll lucreafirig.
All that she ma/ reccive in the way of acccflion
of territory or of people, will enhance this ad- j.
vantage. \s to the m:litaty difpoQtiont of this (
power, they arc well known, her family con- .
nexions, as far as she can depend upon them, J
are considerable, and her influence over every:
thing mrmfcWo die quarter of the Mediterrane-, ,
an, will soon become confpicuouj, when athag ,
in concert with Kufiiaand Pruilia.
Laltly then we come to Prulßa, pofTcfCng ,
near twelve millions of people ; —A factious
Hate, it is true, and requiring the continuance of .*
the lame good management, which brought it \
gradually forwards to its prt-feni comparative
prolpeiity, as well as devoid of internal means
(like those of Ru id AuftiiaJ for multiply- < t
ing her people ; but vet-poflefling an nnmenlc j
.11 my, wrv.cl) irs late king T in confequcnce of;ip- j
tiW -e-f roeehsni-es ta&ic*,- i
has brought igheft pitch of known pev- t
ie£tion. time it has nothing to j £
fear from 1:1 debts, irs raxes, its nobles, its cler j j
«V, troih afiemblies of Hates, from an expoiedrrr
{fate ot commerce, from its frontiers, or from j £
any c ait ft* whatever but i"s follies and dangerou* p
Had the p; eferit Monarch of Prul- \\
] :ia consult; ;) the works of his fagatious pretlecef- t
for, he would have found hints enough to alarm t
him retpet4.no the power and situation of Ruflia; ('
au,d up«*'» proper enquiry, he would have known a
that the iiate of Poland also had made a deep
imp v-fli.on upon his mind ; ffnee not only from
feat of Kufl;<i and Auflria f hut m order to make
lome at one men# to humanity and Jo character,
he wished to give to the remains of Polanci lath
a con Miration, as fliould (ecure its independence
a.> a bafiier f and form a cotnpevjation lor. its
wrongs
Such are the three potentates already comi- f
guous by situation so as to be able to give each
other ei-ectual lupport and pro.te£tion, who arc r
now compared together in military union upon
principles of conquefl, as is demonJtrated. by the
/aledtvtiion of Poland, and by the present com- (
promile it. (Common sense (hews 1
what is 01 may b;' in their power, and human na- -
ture {hews what tint power will prompt them to.
It therefore becomes neeeffary 10 know what "
means there are ro oppole i% in the retnaiopu
Icattered fragments of j urope, fiiouldPolaSn L
and France, as before mrutioned either be incur '
porated into tkeir JyJlcm, be difabUd, or be rendered \
neutral.
FOR the NATIONAL GAZETTE
Mr. FiIEXEAU, .
1 mt.if}*be the desperation of the
V \ AriHocraticjunto, wh- n they endeavor to
Ittpport their expiriao; with rumours of
letters, that were never written, and scraps of
convei 1..u0n, that, when spoken, were combined
with other matter, which, truly related, w oijld 1
ynrld a very different complexion ! For (liame,
Major ! If you have no opportunity of employ
ing yourfelf more profitably, at lead, ast more
inhocetal) : \ our friend inay «»ffift in making
you a lawyer, but, believe me, he can never make .
you a politician. 1
t ire Sir, really citizens of a free country ? \
If ro, every man ha ; a tight to think, speak, and ]
act for tnmfelf; being refponfrbl'e for the ahiife
oi that 'ight. But, it would appear from foih. J
late pjoccedings, that whatever the theoretic?!
frame of our conflitution may declare, no man »
tn Pennfylvama has a right to think, speak, or '
att, but in favour of certain prefenbed mcafurcs 1
and cha»aaers and of the privilege
of Ipcech action is deemed to commence the
moment rhat any thing is said or done, which C
di.pieafcs the Major, and his friend thecoun- n
tellor • William, -Jie nabob, or RobeTt, the rof- °
f r * Tom Pvine think of this t
order ©* things! In Gicatßjita n, a monarchy,
• | revered for its antiquity, though reprobated for
r its corruption. Common Senfi dares to write against
e | the government, the niihilters, Scthefovereign;
1 tiay,»proclam3tian,ifTued in mob convenientJiafon,
t ilild witii all the patade of royalty.,he can with
- impunity, arraign as a libel while a freeman of
i Pennsylvania is prohibited from thin km* of as
' fairs of State, and mud acquiesce, with fervili
-• complacency, in whatever ineafuresthe felf-cre
i ated nobles of the land fhtll impose. If Paine
- took the proclamation in fomuch dudgeon, what
r would lit have thought of the ever-memorable
circular letter, Ggned by the nine diftatgrs, com
-1 to proceed to the eleaion of a so-.
» vernor, with Conge i(elite, fpecifying the ob
jefct of our choice : and if he treats with such
1 ?' m « th^ Pr D efC , m " a,c 'H 8 representation
m the Brttilh Parliament, what would be his
• commentary on a view of the representation of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania at the
Board of Conferrees 1 The measure, so' extrava
gant and so arrogant, would, perhaps, draw his
attention horn the ,persons who were convened :
out let us who have reifure and patience to con
.ider both, invoke Common Sen/e (1 mean the
Common iien/e that governed our feelings and our
conduit from theyear 1775 to the year ,-golm
exp l .,,', the magic by whjch William Lewis and
Robert ,iln, .have been conjured 'nto d: legates
''t'om the city of Philadelphia." Common
Seal declines the talk, and refers us to FaSl/cn
for an answer.
But we are told by Pome of the scribblers
ot the day, that the citizens ought not to
meddle with matters, that relate to the
federal government. Leave them it is
echoed from the Major to the Broker bave
them to the President and the officers oftho
union. I agree, lir, that we ought to give
into ( xfar the things that are Cafar's ■ that
we ought to leave t.oCongref; theconfHtu
tional authority of making the laws of the
union, and to thePrefident'the'uninterrupt
power «i executing them : but. I Hope
we are not yet ripe to admit, that the bu-
Itnefs of managing elections, and choofintr
our representatives, can be performed by
I any autnonty, but that of the people. It
, leetu , indeed, peculiarly indelicate and im
| proper, for any officer of the United States
|to intermeddle upon the occasion ; and
whde mius are retailed for the admonition
of our ttate officers, it may not be amis to
remind those of the federal eftablM iment
how unbecoming it would be, to foment
parties, and to influence elc-aions for the
purpose of etJluring approbation to their
political p.ojeft;, and permanency to their
[Oiijcial appointments.
, I lie difpoiition to defame an opponent,
whole arguments cannot be refuted is the
e\ idence ol a low and rancorous mind It
Has. united, but one mTchievou- efleft (for
til other i eipech.it carricx its own antidote \
t.J.it <»; provoking a retort. Now, -.ir,
t.toug'i l would not willingly depreci e
t ie thai n it;r of any man, I feel too ftrong
!y the ejpirt du corps, not to take up :-, e
gauntlet:, when it is wantonly thrown ; and,
therefore, I am preparing "fetches of tli«
primary planets, in the arrftocratical hem
.sphere, and their fwellites, which, <b*.n
the plan ol Mirabrau's " gallery of por
traits, ' or, " the jockey club," I'will p. e
feut, in a Jew da , fur the information and
amusement of the lectori of Pennsylvania.
1 am, Mr. Freneau,
i our obeo.cut fervarit.
oa 2 _ __ Z.
Atiu-l'ork and Philadelphia
STAG E S,
Via 80/denton and Burlington.
THE proprietors of "the .\ew y or k ar , k pj,j_
lade] phi a Land ard Water Stages, be c liavg
>0 mention, that tor the better accommodation of
:ne pal.enters, tnev I,'ave removed ihe! r u.ft'; rent
picket boat; hrm their former (land, at the
CrooK-d Billet Wharf, to the wharf or dotk im
mediately next befoW Arch"-«,eet ; from whence
a convenient packet boat (farts lor New.y„,k
as ujuul, on ever, Sunday, Tuesday, Wednesday
"rk r a,ld returns on every Tuefdav,
ihurnlay, Fridiy and Saturday. The io
be made either by the „ ay 0 f fiordenton or Bur
.ington ; ea.-)h place taken alternately.
J- are for palierigert from Philadelphia to New-
York
For goods do. do _ p'er rwr. ' fil'.
Van Etnljtirgh and M'Kean,
David Williamfon,
Proprietors of ,b, hue Yo, k and FbUaJeh ,
pita /«£«, by tit .out oj Bardcniou.
Jacob Myers,
/ mo.s Hutchin,
Nicholas Schcnck,
Prcpri.-for, ;/Arw T.rk end Plilad^
pl,cf,aga, by tbi rear c/JSurt.r.g,^.
Bordcnion, x .
For tie,ghi or pafiage apply to the matters on
ooarJ, or to
'^ ean ani 3 Van Emburnh;
V/ho have for sale at their Irore on (vi,U wharf,
immediately next below Arch-street,
Oe Madeira, T Wufcovadc, 1
1 eneritte, and i.W,»rs. Loaf, and
lDon,Jln J Lump \
Jamaica Spi,ii s , Molafles,
1 Colfee,
fVlontlerat, Si 5-Rwm. Chocolate,
Newbury j Bohea Tea,
Rochclle Branoy Bm lingtnn Pork,
in pipes, cafci. and Hams,
demijohns, Flour,
Gin in pipes and cases, Bar Iron, *c. &c. See,
Orders for Crain, Staves, Bills ef Sf witling, ot
Lumber, pdnftually attendtd to.
For freight or pafl"„ f e to Lambetton or Tttn»
ton : alio, apply as above.
1792,Ssr-r ■"S r cr; jj
?*;/£■ Pi'NNSYLVAHIA PLANTER.
ATTACH'D to Urnls. th»t ne'tr dcceiv'd bf;
hope?,
This their come and eo 5
His autumn*! toil return* in lummer's crops,
Whjre iinr»j> d Dream? to cool >t» hkrbage Mow :
-■\nd if fame cares intrude upon his* mind,
They are such cares as heaven tor man deiign'd.
He to no pompous dome comes, cap in hand,
Where new-jaade-fquires affedfc the courtly smile,
Nor whcie AlcAndT, iniu'V nib foreign band,
Extols tbt rule of in tweliing Ityle,
With tongue that babbled, When it fliouid have
hufli'd,
A head that never thouglw—a face that never
bluih'd.
He on no party lianas his hopes or fears,
Nor leeks the vote that hafenels mult procure 5
No stall fed Mammon, for /lis gold reveres,
No splendid Oilers from his ibelts allure —
While /ho'veri delcend, and firm their beams
display,
The lime to him, if Congress go or stay.
"Where wandering brooks from mountain sources
roll,
He f«*rks at noon the waters of the (hade .
Drinks deep—and fears no poiion in the bowl,
Thai Nature for her happiest children made,
And fiom whose clcar and gently palling wave,
All drink alike—the mdfter and the Have.
The scheming ilatcfman shuns his homely door, —
Who, on the miferie&of his country led,
Ne'er glanc'd his eye from that base pitfer'd
To view the sword, fu-fpended by a thread,
Nor that hanJ-wiitiag, grav'd upon the waH
Thar tells him—but in vain—the sword aiufl
fall.
He ne'er was made a holiday machine,
Wheeled bere and there bjr in liver)
clad ;
Nor dreads the sons of Inflation keen,
Hard hearted laws, and penalties mod fad ;
In humble hope his little fields were (own,
A trifle in your eye—but all foil own.
Sept- 29.
Necu-York, Sept. 26, 1792.
Mr. Frsneau,
THE interests of learning in Columbia College
New-York, are fappofed to have fdfTeied mucl
t>v the late constrained departure of one ot it!
profelTbrs, in the following elegant lit.
tie poem under the fictitious name of Eupb-ator
Without entering into the merits of the cafe, o,
pronouncing any judgment on the fairnefs of th<
dtcifion of the Trurtees, you will oblige a correl
p indent by rnfeiting the inclosed reflections, if
your National Gazette, penned on this occafioi
(it is supposed) by (Jneofthe higher Students o
Columbia College. G. C».
COLUMBIA'S HALL.
A SONG—-Tune, Uirks of Invermay.
WHEN here, Philander, firfl I came,
By Hudson's fair, Riajeftic ttream;
.Wr dre'midlt diltiiimg clallic Iwcets,
Fate, feem'd to fix the mules feats.
Blefs'd fciencc, nuis'd her sons in peace,.
Euphranor led the muse ol Greece.
Fair fame, obey' 4 Industry's call :
And gladness fill'd Columbia's Hall.
But ah ! what mournful, dire reverfe t
Pcmand» my youthful, humble verse !
Euphranor, now, his post religns:
The muse retires—and dullncft reigns.
Alas! who's that, his place supplies ?
The Attic genius, ask* and flies !
J fee the flight 1 my spirits fall .•
Ana sadness fills Columbia's Hall.
Those happy hours, return no more,
That fraught our minds with ancient lora.
We labot hard—but waste our time.
We seek in vain the true sublime.
No critic hand, our views to lead,
Our mind* with learning's dainties feed.
No illuitraror, at our call,
But darkness fills Columbia's Hall.
Demosthenes, no hand to wield,
And Homer's beauties, lye conceal'd.
The Roman glow—*hc Attic Ult,
Can now, no more our mind? exalt.
We feel a thirtt, we cao't assuage.
We've none to clear Longinus' page.
We seek, but mi ft those treasures all,
• And Taste, 16 fled Columbia's Hall.
The torch no more Eufbranor holds t
Norclafiic beauties now unfolds :
Nor learning's treasures pure, imparts
In co.pi,ous Areams, to grateful hearts.
No more the youth of genius sings.
The muses drop their languid wings.
Grim, rueful, threatning omen?, all,
6 Surround and fill Columbia's Hall.
[THE following plan for eftabl Ihing a colleg
for old Maids was published at Dublin, in Ireland
in the yfiar 1790, It may at once amuse the cu
jtjous and afford a hint to the benevolent on thi
iide of the Atlantic to attempt something upon i
similar idea.]
I "FORMED for society, solitary fcclufion is ne
1 vrr the objt& of our voluntary cho : ce, whili
unbiased reason is permuted to regulate our cOn
<lust. Ascetics, it is true, may be found in al
a«eß, tut tney have always been cither drivei
from the ballots of men, by rlie angry voice c
offended conscience, or seduced by the flatrerin,
fpait of cnthufiafm* Besides, poor dependant b< •
lngs as we are, we require the mutual aid of eat!"
other. How deplorable then is the condition ol
anof-D ua\u 1 Stripped, perhaps, by death ol
relatives, and frfcudtot iisi
yontfc, (lie pines in folrtuda a pr*y to infirmity*|
or bending beneath the weight of yeais, she 'its,
cheerless, the iditary tenant of an humble habi
tation. No lisping babe gambols at her knee ,
no smiling friend appears to pour balm on her la
cerated mind. Denied the plealurei of focieiy,
incapable, it may be, of employing her need.e,
and unused to habusof ftudv, tuns pa (lea her witn
a tardy ltep. And when death advances to her
relief, his string is sharpened by the refl<*£\ion,
that her eyes will not be closed, nor her limbs de
cently laid, by the hand of friendfhip or conian
guinity.
1 h's p'.&ure is not less faithful ihan it is me
lancholy. To relieve the mUeriei it exhibits, is
the objetl of these pages.
To remedv the evil which -I now deplore, 1 have
revolved (everjl plans in my mind j bui the Only
one, which, on mature deliberation, has appear
ed to ra~-eligible, is the initiating,
A COLLEGE TO* OLD MA IPS
of moderate fortunes \ thus forming them into a
lifter hood, and fuppljing them with all the com*
I >rtn and advantages of society. this plan
should hastily be deemed Utopian, i mdft beg the
attention «f the reader, wiiile i endeavour to iiiow
iis/eafibility,—-provided parliament wilt allord
its aid.
Let a fund for this purpose lie raised by means
of a capitation tax on the females ot every family
in the kingdom, above the rank, of pcaiants and
working artificer*. The money thus collected, to
be pavtl> employed in purchasing a certain quan
ity of ground in eachol* the four provinces, in a
lituation to which natyre has been prodigal of her
charms, and in the vicinity of a market-town.
Mere let a spacious building be eredted, with -a
cloister, chapel, refectory, dormitory, and all the
fuitdble ofiices, according to a plan that will ad
mit of occasional additions in harmony with the
whole.
The legislature having thus performed its part 3
let the ladies who lhall avail themselves of its
bounty, contribute to the iupport of the inllitu
:ion J cach lady linking irretrievably in the gen
eral lund, at leaf! two hundred pounds of her for
tune.
[To be continued. ]
VT AT E paper.
Letter of the Helvetic Copgrefs to the king of the
French, datedjune ii, 1792*
Sir,
«• THE neceftity of preserving our preciou;
country in these critical times, with the fame eou
rage and firmnefs as o-ur ancestors, who, repolinj
in God, founded our republic, under the protec
tion and visible afhiiance of the Almighty, ha:
engaged ail of us, the Cantons and allied ftatcsj
1 maturely to weign, and t<» deliberate by oui de
puties allemtoled at Frawenfcld tor that purpose or
the met! proper means ot prelei ving the tranquil
ity and peace of our country, and averting tht
daggers anting to it from abroad.
** In conlequance of thele mature deliberations,
1 we have the honour of addrcllinj to your roya
1 majesty the prefer:: letter, with ihe refpt£t which
r we owe you. Following the example our a »*
ceftors, we have taken the firtiflflfaf unanimous re
folutiun to observe with Jideli'rTjfln our -fide, th«
mod entire and ftridt neutrality towards the greai
powers artuaily engaged in war, and to tuppoil
the lame by an armed force, as circunilUncei
thill require j for which end we are already for
tifying our frontiers, to put 1)1 em in as tecure a
state as poflible.
" At the fame time we prefumt to conceive
■hopes, that the -Principalities de Neulchatel anj
Vallingin, the republic of Geneva, the V*l di
Munfter (Montreal Grandval) .1* well as th«
other slates of the Bithop de Bale-, who are al
moieorlefs intimately connected with tome o
our co-estates, will be as usual, included in th<
neutrality, and refpe&ed 00 that account as a
every former period. In confcqucnce we earned!;
denrand of your majesty to ifl'ue your orders toi
(he troops which are in the territory of Hortentru;
to be withdrawn, in order that the cantedtrap
territories may b- more fafe, and nvay not li3v
reason to fear an invasion on the partot the billjj
grrent poweis.
4< After this formal and fulemn declaration o
neutrality, we hope, from the generality of ytru
roval maje'fy, that you will, upon urgent demand
give ordcis that your troops and armies may no
let foot upon the Helvetic territories, that the
may not occupy any poll, that they may not mak
any incursion or traierfe the eountry* tak
the liberty of as before, that >ou will loot
' iJTuethe agreeable declaration, which we hope t<
obtain likewise from ins apostolic majetlv, thi
king of Hungary and Bohemia, in confequencc 0
the demand which *c have made this day. VVi
will employ all the means in our 1 p «wer to ast an<
cbferve with fidelity all that is required by a full]
loyal, and ftrV£t neutrality.
We i regard this gracious declaration which wt
expett from your tuajefty, as a new proof of you
goo»inefs and benev.olence towards all the confed'
eration. We b g ju would continue to pref'-rvi
the fame oifpolitions, and pray that the
may maintain the prefperily of your lacrrd ,person
cind of the ro)al family, and conduct all events so
ihe general good.
u Your majesty's most attached and zealou
iervants, burgomasters, magistrates, and council!
of the thirteen Cantons and United States 0/ Swit
zerlandi
*<■ Given and sealed in common with the seal o
, r Zurich, the 11 th of June, 1790.
J ' SOCIETY FOR ESTABLISHING
USEFUL MANUFACTURES.
YO'I ICE il hereby given to the Stockholder
o.f the SocicJy for eltablilhing uleful manu
c " uclures, that the annual cleitiun for Diredlois o
le the fai,: i ciccy will be helJ at the Courthouleir
1 New-Ark in the county of tile* on the firft Mon
Jay in Ottobcr next, between the hour* oftwelv
and two in the afternoon of the fame day.
of 4. MERCER, Deputy Governor.
'* New-Ark J'jly, 17th 1792.
h For fait at this Office,, Sermons b)
the Riv'd i)r. William Linn, of N. York
jr Price 4/7 i-*«
BOOKS,
Printed and fold by
MATHEW CARE Y,
No. ii 8, Market-Street i Philadelphia.
t. American Museum, from its commencement
in January 1787, to June 1792, w eleven volume
Price, ncatiy bound ana lefttied, Seventeen doll at
end tb*ee fifths*
This work which is n*w Co'dußed on an im
proved pian, containing tveiifl pieces publifbedfo
and again/} the proceedings oj government, will b
fiund to contain at leafi as great a variety of p-'l
tic a•, agricultural) m.Jmijcellane-jus efj'ays, as an
ever publijhed in Americas Perhaps in no one wor
are jo many valuable documents refprSfing the hjl'j
ry of this country y toilet! Ed together. His excel
ler.cy the President of the United States, has de
clared of it, that " a more ufeful literary plan
J has never been undertaken in America, nor one
| mure deserving of public encouragement." Ibt
\fubjcnption is two dollars and a half per annum.
Gentlemen in the countty who wifb to be Juppiiea
with this work, are rnjurjud to live ccmmijji.n tt
friends in the city to jubjeribe jor and receive it.
?■. Smithes letter* to married womeu, on nw/in'g
and the management of' i/.>; Jren. "Wr r e< -Imm
theft letters to theperufal of tbofe to whom they a
particularly add»tjj*d%' Monthly Review. l r ol.
Page jc 1. Price bund Jive eighths of a dollar.
Duncan's elements of logic* tbtee fourths of ,
dol.ar•
4. Beauties of Fielding, 50 cents.
5. beauties of filair> 50 cents,
(j. Ladies' l'ocket Library—containing :—Aiij
Morels F-(Jays \ Gregory's Legacy ; Lady Pen
ning ton's advic-e ; Alarchionejs of Lambert'* ad
vice j Swift's letter to a newly matried ; ady
Mrs. Chapcne on command of temper j More sfa
b!cs for the ladles Price fc/6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Price a doi
lar and a quarter.
7, Elemehis of Mo.al Science, by James Beat
tie, 1.1.d. prOfefjor of moral pbVojcphy and log;
in tht Ala rife hal College, Aberdeen — Price tbrt
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Critual Re
viewers (voU 69. p. Jjj ■: 11 Wi Lave fee
nothing on theft fubjetis mere plait) more perfpicu
us, or more genera ly uftful
9. Beauties of fifths of a
dollar.
10. Blair's Sermons,-- Price two dollars.
11. Neckar y » Treatije On the importance of reli
gious opinions. Price jour fifths of a dollar.
12 Examination of the objervations of I. r »rd She/
field on American 'Commerce• Price, on very fir
; paper, five eighths of a dollar.
13. The Conjlitutioxs of the Jevcral United Statei
> with the federal ConflUution, &c. Price ft)
1 eighths if a dollar.
14 M'Fingal, Price -thru -eighths of a dollar•!
1 15. American Jest Hook y three jijibs of ,
dollar,
10. Garden of the Soul, half a dollar.
17. The Doauy Tranjlation of the vulgate Bi
, bit, in quarto. Price, e ega fitly bound and lettered
I 50/2 —plain, fix dollars
-1 Said arev has for fait, a Urge effort ment t
■ bo9ks, jburttfean as well u 4j J) ltr r i can catfion:
which be will dispose of stJLlbf mofi reajonabie term.
: Country gentlemen, who favor him with commands
t may depend upon beirg J' pplied iff the mofi fatisfac
c tory v\anner, A ibtral allowance to such as pur
s chafe quantities for public libraries, or to fell again
May 17. 6m.la.w.
j .
FOR SALE,
ABOUT ioc,coo acres of Land, lying nes
Whitewown, in the Hate of New-Yoik., o
I the fcorth fide of the Mohawk river, adjoinin
Nobleborough, and will be fold either in parce
or together, as may suit the purchaser*.
N. 15. The above trad of land ii of the fir
quality in the state, chiefly timbered with t>eac
* and maple, well watered, and contains many mi
feats. The peculiar advantages of this trad, fi r u
\ ated within a few miles of Whiceftown (whit
contains upwards of five thousand
with an easy anu convenient water carriage t
* Schenc&ady,/Albany, and New-York, make it a
objcdl for any pcrfons inclined to fettle it, and ren
der it an exlreinelv advantageous puVcnafc fa
d pcrfons inclincc ic realize their money in land c
an encreafing value. The whole tract or any pai
of ir, will be fold very low for cash, o r for par
/ ca/h, and the remaining paymcnts at dillant peii
•>ds. Enquire at No. 219 Queen-street, near th
Fl -market New-York.
II ;
0 July 19.
ic
U
'e Society for yijeful AJanufactures»
1 is liSfcf given to the holders 0
» xNI floik inthe/aid focr'ety, that the followin
arrangement has been made by the Deputy Go
e vernor and Dire&ors thereof, by a resolution 0
ir the eighteenth day of May, 1792.
1_ Thefccond iiirtalment foi the payment of fliare
e in the (lock of this society, may be made in th
'•* fallowing manner, viz.
The amount of the said second instalment, be
n ing 20 13-100 dollars each (hate, may be paiil i;
three pa> ments, oil condition that tbe lawful in
JS rereft of 7 per cent, per annum, be calculate
' s and paid with each proportionate part of the fai
c " payment, that is to fay, on or before the thir
teenth day of August next, the sum of 6 71-100
01 with the addition of 12 cents, being the interel
of one month on 20 13-100 dollars—on or be
Zm tore the 13th of September next, the sum of
ii-100 dollars, with the addition of S cents, be
ng the interest for one month on 1 3 42-100 dol
ars—and on or before the 13th of Odober next
r ~ the: sum of 6 71-100 dollars, with the addition 0
u 4 cents, being the interest on the fame for on
0 month. The said payments are to be made at th
11 following places, viz. In the city 0/ Philadelphia
n at the bank of the United States—at Ncw-Brun(
v< wick, in Neiv-J«rfcy, to John Bayard, or Joh
Neilfon, Efqrs—and in the city of New-York, a
the bank of Nevf-York, oj either of the fai
places, which may be most convenient to th
" ilock holders.
y By order of the Jlreftion,
-k JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerk.
I' *4.
Torres a Vendre
Dans un fill's bun f> tuple t —
S AVOIR, foixante cinq mille, trois cens, fo?x
ante et quatorze Acres, en une .fesle piece*
dans le canton le mieux peuplo de la Caroline Me
ridiowale, leDiftii&de Ninety-Six. Ces tcrres
font lituees dans une contree agreable, ct I'alubrr,
ou les fievres forvt inconnuesi a environ vingt lieuca
de Colombie, la Capitale, ct continues ala
de Cambiidge, ou i 1 y a College, et Cour luperi
eure. A environ dobze lieue?, il y a bonne-navi
gation jet il efb tres piobable, que dans quelque
terns on rcndra navigahle le Grand Salude, riviere
qui arrofe les terres racmcs. Elles font agreable
ment diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons charmans,
! propres a ia culture du tabac, du coton, tfu mats,
et du petit grain ; et dont une proportion confider
ible le pent ailement convei tir en prairies fertiles.
II n*eft peut-etre gucres poflible de rencontrer une
areille piece ce terre a vendre dans aucun autre
Jes Etats Unis 5 et pour les conditions de Tachat,
on les rendra tres commodes.
in former a rimpiimerie de la Gazette Na
rionale. Sept. 5.
LANDS for SALE,
TN a well fettled Country. SIXTY-FIVE
1 THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY-FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in one
in the 'iooll popui. da part rtf tin- ft Me 0i
South-Carolina, in thediftrift of Ninery-f:x---It
is situated in a fine healthy climat*,free from fever
& ague,about flxty miles from Columbia, the feat
'»f govei ntni'nt, 'I he land is contiguous to the?
■ own of Cambridge, where* are a leminary for the
initrudlion of youth, and a superior law court.
is at prelrnt within ab'ut thirty-five miles of good
navigation, wi»h a probability of having the river,
called the Great Saluoa, that fl<ws along one fid*
jr the'land. made navigable. '1 iir i;t:*d is beauti
fully diveilifi?d into fwdU and vaies, anC is per
fe6ll y well calculated for the culture tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn., and finall grainy a *:caC
proportion at it may be made n.l dow groflnd.
Their is not, perhaps, such a hod, of land, foicii
cum(lanced, for sale in any other or the U ; States.
The terms of payment will be made convenient td
the purchaler or purch-feik. Apply to the Pi inter.
Augurt'2j, jawtr
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. Oswald,
( Price Eleven Pence)]
FIVE LETTERS,
addrefll-d to tlie
Yeomanry of the United States:
CONTAiNiNG Tome Observations on the
Scheme of Gover.jor Duer and Mr Secreta
v Ham:., t, to eliablifh National Manufa&ures ,
< a VARMER. This pamphlet, so highly in
teresting at this period, may be.had at rhe follow
ing places : at Mr. Oswald's Printing Office, No
156, Marlcet-rtreet 5 at No. 20$, Market- ftreetj. ,
--At M>- j >' 1
Mr. Cruklhankr, 91, Maikct-rtrcct; at Mr,
Aitkcn's, 22, Market-Greet; arftl at Mr.
S. W. corner of Chefnut and Second-llrdeu.
August 21.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for f;ile by the Printer,
John M'Culloch, at No, i . North Third
r Street, and by 1110 ft of the Book
sellers in this cijy,
(Price 3/9)
MODERN CHIVALRY:
t Containing the
Adventures of Capt.JohnFarragp,
and
Teague O'Regan,
, his Servant.
V O I„U ME 11.
f By H. H. BIIACKENRIDGK.
t
' Quuquid agunt Homines no/Ii i, Farrago libclli.
I Juvena
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale at the Printing-Office,
No. uo), Market-Street^
and at Thomas Dabfon's Book-Storcitt
f Second-Street,
» Price Three- Eighths of a Dollar,
lf ADVICE
TO THE
; PRIVILEGED ORDERS,
in tile
- SEVERAL STATES of EUROPE,
II Refnlting from the'neceility and pro
~ priety of a General Revolution in
d the Principle of Governinenc.
, *
By Joel Bahlow, Er.juire.
11 —
George Town t June 2, 1792.
A NUMBER ot LOTS in every nttfttnori
jr\_ which may bedefired in the city of Wafh
•nuionj will be offered for sale, by the Commif
' lioners on Monday the Sch day of next#
" One fourth part of the purchase money to b«
paid down, the refidne in rh. ee etjual annual pay
nients, with yearly interelt 00 tin* v\ h »lc princir
| pal unpaid. JOHN M. GANTi,
July 25. Clerk to the Comnii.Tioner#.
i
PRINTEDBY
IC CHILDS and S W A I N E,
AT TUIIKOFFICB N0.209, H IC.*-S,T K&£ T|
MAR FIFTH-STREET,
JHHAftlLl'lllAi