Vol. I.
On the third reading of the Hill for the fur
ther increase of the duties on Imports.
"ft, /f R. BALDWIN exprefled his dif
iVl approbation of the Bill now on
its uaflage. The extraordinary Servi
ces of the year, he wasfenfible called 101
additional provisions, as all the piefent
revenues were already mortgaged : but
he did not feel himfelf exposed to the
imputation of oppofmg this plan of tne
Secretary of the Treasury, without di
recting his mind to fotne other provisi
on. The proposed expedition is in its
nature a temporary fcrvice, and lequncs
but temporary supplies. It was agreed
on all hands, and was even a part of the
bill under consideration, that the mo
nies neceflary for this bufmels must in
the firft instance be railed on loan ; and
the only question left is, whether the
whole sum shall be now immediately
provided for by increasing the impost
as proposed in this bill ; or whethcl
shall be considered as included in the
other loans which the House was about
to authorize for other purposes, provisi
on for the discharge of which rauft be
made as fact as poflible.
The objections to the bill which seem
ed to have weight on the minds ol
other gentlemen, and to his were abso
lutely insurmountable, were derived
principally from the following sources.
That it was an unlimited and perpe
tual revenue law, that informed and di
rected as his mind then was, he nevei
should give his vote for mortgaging to
perpetuity the revenues of posterity.
That the revenue provided ought in
all cases to be only commenfurateto the
objeCt. Military service was in its na
ture a temporary object, and by the con
ftituiion could not be made the iubjcCt
of an appropriation for more than two
years.
As to the observations, that it was a
good thing always to have money on
hand; that there might be deficiencies un
der the funding law, and that it was ne
ceflary to increafethe taxes forthepur
poie of encouraging manufactures, he
thought them not closely conneCted
•with the Indian war. If they had been
yaftly neceflary in themselves they
would probably have been thought of
before. They'had been fully difcufled
in the last Congress, and it was suppos
ed had been amply provided for, by
the permanent systems which had been
Bailed on those fubjeCts.
Another ground of objcCtion was,
that it would come very unexpected on
the country.
He called on the House to recolleCt
the progress of this business. at the firft
fefiion a revenue law was passed which
was then called enormous, an unwar
rantable extreme of taxation, forebod
ing the word; of consequences. He had
not forgot.the pafiionate exclamations
of gentlemen on that occasion, neither
had he negleCted to compare it with
their conduCt since that time.—At the
second fefiion the duties were raised ir
jjrofs one quarter of their former a
rnount. —The third fefiion was made
memorable.by the passage of the excise
law : and now at this fourth fefiion the
House is called upon to increase the
former duties in different proportion:
from twenty to a hundred per cent
This fold he, looks like travelling with
large and rapid strides down to thai
common vortex of oppreflion which ir.
so many countries before has devoured
the people. The painful view was in
deed for a Ihort time interrupted at the
opening as thisTeflion by the public af
furanex: in the President's speech, which
is considered as the highest government
al declaration; " that the produCt of the
former revenue laws appeared to be fuf
ficient, and that no new taxes need be
devised." But now foiefooth the bay
onet is tp convince us that the funding
system wants further revenues to sup
port it, that it. is neceflary to raise the
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhcd Mondays and Thursdays, at Ihrke Dollars per annum.
THURSDAY, April 26, 1792
duties in order to encourage commerce
and promote manufa&ures, —and that
thefc taxes too, mull be made perpe
tual.
He ob r ervcd further, that it seemed
;o be generally understood that there
must be a provision of further revenues
11 ill at the next session. The loans
which the President is empowered to
make, will require that the interest
should be provided for, and perhaps if
the doctrine that a public debt is a pub
lic blessing, should by that time be a lit
tle more generally exploded, it may be
thought necessary, instead of looking
out more debts to afifume, to make lome
provision for finking the small part of
the funded debt which is permitted by
the funding law to be discharged. Asa
new revenue law must probably be pro
vided early in the fall session, even it
this bill should pas i, he thought it much
befttobe contented with the monies tak
en on loan for this summer, and let the
whole fubjeft lie over to the next fefii
on. Such a rapid succession of import,
laws taking place as is now proposed,
with but little more than a months
warning, must defeat all the calculations
of the merchants, and make their heavy
burdens still more heavy by entangling
them in their business, and depriving
them of the ule of thole arrangements
which they might make, if the laws
were ftcady. The merchants and the
reft of the people will consider their
representatives as contriving how to
perplex and entrap them, rather than
as deliberating for their common inter
ests and happiness.
If there should be any real deficiency
in the revenues devoted to the funding
system, as is now for the firft time pre
tended, it will then come vouched by
official documents, and the house will
know on what grounds they legiflatc,
To talk ofraifing money because it may
be wanted, and it is a good thing tc
have money on hand, is a burlesque on
legislation. If the prote&ing duties,
and encouragement to manufactures,
which had been before thought fuffici
ent, were proved by experience to be
inadequate, it would doubtless appeal
by the complaints of the parties them
selves, none of which had yet come tc
his knowledge. Such unalked boon:
to some, wrought up to be perpetual
burdens onothers, appeared to him both
unwise and unfafe.
- . ■?9>SZSamum*mmm *
For the NATIONALGAZETTE.
Mr. FreneAu,
IN the public prints, we find a Mem
ber of Congress complaining that he
had been " often interrupted" in his
speech. I suppose it was not the audi
ence that interrupted him, as I do not
find any order was given for clearing
the gallery. I was there, whin a mo
tion was made to have the citizens turn
ed out of doors, for applauding General
Jackson ; and I well remember, some
Honorable member displayed no small de
gree of warmth on the occahon. But
if it was a violation of the freedom oi
debate, to applaud (without interruptingj
a gentleman who was not a member,
how much greater the violation, to in
terrupt gentlemen who are members !
Order ought no doubt, to be kept in the
gallery ; but much more so within thi
bar, where it is of fomuch greater con
sequence to the welfare of the union,
as, without order, all freedom of debati
is at end; and the minority, however
refpe£table, may at any time be brow
beaten, muzzled "like dumb bcafts, and
ridden in silence by.a triumphant majo
rity, who will have no more to do.
than to call them every moment to ordei
when not out of order, —rife to explain,
when no explanation is necessary,
call again and again to the chair, tc
state the question, —call on the clerk
to read papers, rules, orders, or any
thing that will but anlwcr the lauuablc
purpose of deranging the ideas of tin
Handing member, and diverting the at
tcntion of the Houie from his argu
ments. Such 4ifliom>roU: 'man cttvrcs may
have their effeftinthe corrupt assem
blies of the old world : hut it is devout
ly to be wished, that ihey may never be
countenanced in the hen, ral-l:' House o!
R : epl'el'entativcS of the United Stafcs i>!
America. ORDER.
April 23.
authentic.
seconiTcongress
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft Seflion .begun and held " the city ol
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania,
on Monday the twenty-fourth of O&ober, one
thoul'and leven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT for altering the times of holding
the Circuit Courts, in certain diftricls oj
the United States, and for other purpojes.
BE it enabled by the Senate and House oj
Representatives of the United States cj
America, in Congress assembled, That
rrem and after the palling of this ast the
c ircuit courts in the diftrifts of :\orth
Carolina and Georgia shall be held as
follows to wit : in the diftrift of North
Carolina on the firft day of June and
the thirtieth day of November at
at Ncwbern in the present and each fuc
eceding year. And all writs anci re
cognizances returnable and suits and
other proceedings that were continued
to the chcuit court for the diftrift oi
North Carolina on the eighteenth day
of June next (hall now be returned and
held continued to the fame court on the
firft dayof June next. In the diftrift
of Georgia on the twenty fifth day ol
April at Savannah and on the eighth day
of November at Augusta in the present
and each succeeding year except wher
any of those days happen on a Sun
day in which cafe the court shall be
held on the Monday following.
And. be it further enaßed, lhat the fef
fions of the circuit courts in the eafterr
circuit shall in the prelent and ever}
succeeding year commence at the time:
following, that is to fay, in New-Yorl
diftrift on the fifth day of April and the
fifth day of September. In Conncfticu!
diftrift on the twenty fifth day of Apri
and the twenty fifth day of September
In Maifachufetts diftrift on thctwelft!*
day of May and the twelfth day o:
October. In New-Hampshire diftrifl
on the twenty fourth day of May anc
the twenty fourth day of October and in
Rhode-lfland diftrift on the seventh day
of June and the seventh day of No
vember except when any of thole day:
(hall happen on a Sunday and then the
fe(fions shall commence on the next day
following. And the felfions of the cir
cuit court shall be held 111 the diftrift o(
Virginia at the city of Richmond only.
In New Harr.pfhire diftrift
mouth and Exeter alternately, begin
ning at the firft. In Maffachule-tts dif
trift at Boston. In Rhode-lfland dif
trift at New-Port and Providence alter
nately beginning at the firft. In Con
necticut diftrift at Hartford and New
lleaven alternately, beginning at. the
last. And in New-York district at the
cityof New-York only.
And be it enabled, That at each session
of the supreme court of the united
States or as soon after as may be, the
judges of the supreme court attending
at such session shall in writing {uofcrib
ed with their names (which writing
shall be lodged with the clerk of the
fe.preme court and fafely kept in hi;
office ) assign to the laid judges respec
tively the circuits which they are tc
attend at the ensuing (effions of the cir
cuit courts ; which adignment shall be
made in no such manner that no judge
unless by his own consent fnall have al
Numb. 52.
signed to him any circuit which he hath
already attended until the fame hath
been afterwards attended byeveiy other
of the laid /judges. Provided always,
That if the public service or the con
venience of the judges shall at any time,
in their opinion, require a different ar
rangement, the fame rtiay take place
with the fcohfent of any four of the
irdees of the supreme court.
And be it further enabled, 'I li at the di f
trjft court for the diftrift of Maine,
which, by the ail, intituled " An ait to
eftablilh the judicial courts of the Unit
ed States," is holden on the firft lue -
day of June, annually, atPortlaT»d,fhai.,
from and after the pafling of this act, he
holden on the third Tuesday of Jane
annually, any thing in the ast afore (aid
to the contrary notwithftandmg : and
all writs and recognizances returnable,
andfuits and Other proceedings, t-.at
were continued to the diftrift rourt (or
the didrift of Maine on the firlt i uci
day of June next, (hall now be returna
ble and held continued to the lame
court, on the third Tuesday of June
next. , n
And be it further enaSled, That the (rat
ed diftrift courts for the diftrift of
North-Carolina, (hall in future, be held
at the towns of Newbern, Wilmington
andEdentonin rotation, beginning at
Newbern, as the said court now stands
adjourned. .
(ONATIIAN TRUMBTfI-l-, Speaker oj the
Iloufc of Representatives.
John Adams, face- Prftdent ej the
United States, and Prejtcknt
of the Senate
Approved, April thirteenth, 1792.
G, Washington, Prefdent the
United States.
An ACT for apportioning Representative*
among tltrfever'al States, according to the
firft' enumeration-
BE it cnaEled by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United Slates
of America in Congrif; affcmbied, J hat
trom and after the third day of March
one thousand (even hundred and nine
tv-three, the House of Reptelentatives
{hall be composed of members elect
ed agreeably to a ratio of one mem
ber for every thirty-three thousand
persons in each state, computed ac
cording to the rule prescribed by the
conftitStion ; that is to fay : Within
the (late of New-Hampshire, four :
within the (late of MalTachufetts ; four
teen : within the slate of Vermont,
two ; within the slate of Rhode-Illanu,
two : within the state of Conncfticut,
(even; within the (late of New-1 01k,
ten; within the state of New-Jersey,
five; within the state of Fennfylvania,
thirteen : within the state of Delaware,
one ; within the state of Maryland,
eight: within the state of Virginia,
nineteen ; within the state of Kentucky
two ; within the state of North-Caroli
na, ten ; within the state of Soutii-Ca
i olina, fix ; and within the (tats o.
two members.
Jonathan Tkumsuh. Speaker of the
House of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United States, and Prefdent
of the Senate.
Approved, April fourteenth, 1792.
G. Washington, Prefdent of the
United States.
MACKINTOSHES DEFENCE.
This day is pubiifiied, bv William Your.r?, Book
seller, No. s*, Second-street, the corner of
Chcfrut-ftreer, pr : c<- i-3d» of a d >ilar in boarcs ?
A DEFENCE
OF THE
French Revolution.
And its ENGLISH ADMIRERS, againfl the ac
cusations of the Ri«ht Honorable Edmnnd Burkr,
including some fbifmres on the late f r»duclian of
Monf. Dr. Caloni
By JAMES MACKINTOSH.
JJ. P.—Ditto with the French Constitution, as
accepted by the King, 13th September 1791.
Price in hoards 3-4:;' - dfi> <r.
A»til 13. J f 'CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
SATirKDAY, April 21.
The memorial of lundry merchants of the
city -of New-York, rclpeaing bankrupt laws,
was referred to a feleft committee.
An engrossed bill for railing a further sum ol
money for the proteflion of the frontiers, wa:
read a third time, the blanks were filled up, anc
the bill palled, yeas 37 ; nays 20.
McfT. Ames, Bajnwell, Benlon
Bondinot, S. Bourne, B. Bourne, Brown.
Clatke, Findley, Fitzfimons, Gerry, Gilman.
Goodhue, Gordon, Han fr, Hillhoufe, Huger,
Key, Kitehell, Kittera, Laurance, Learned Li'
vermore, Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray, Niles.
W. Smith, Steele, Sterret, Sturges, Sylvcfter.
Thatcher, Viiving, Wadfworth, Ward, White
NAYS Melf. Alhe, Baldwin, Giles,
Grove, Macon, Madilon, Mercer, Page, Par
ker, Scbponmaker, Siney,Shcredine, J. Smith.
1. Smith, Sumpter, Tredwell, Tucker, Vena
tlr, Williamfon, Willis.
A nieffage from the President of the Unitec
States, was delivered by Mr. Secretary Lear,
together with the following letter, from th<
judges of the circuit couit.
Sir,
TO you it officially belongs to " take car
that the lazjs" of the United States '' be faithful
ly executed." Before you, therefore, we think 11
our duty to lay the sentiments, which, on a late
painful occasion, governed us, with regaid toar
ast palTecl by the legislature of the union.
J he people of the United States have vefl£c
in Congrels all Ugijlatwe powers " granted ir
the conilitution —
1 bey have veiled in one supreme court, and
in luck infcuor courts as the Congress shall efta-
Willi, " tilt judicial power of the United States.
It is wo thy of remark, that, in Congress,
the u/fo/elegiilative power 0. the United States
is not Veiled : an important part of that powei
was exercised by the people themselves, when
they " ordained and eltabltlhed the conflitution."
•' This conflitution" is " the supreme law of
the land." —This lupreme law " all judicial of
ficers of the United States ate bound, by oath or
affirmation, to lupport."
It is. a "principle important to freedom, that
in government, the judicial ffiould be diftinfl
fiom, and independent of the legislative depart
ment. To this important principle the people
of the United States in forming their conilitu
tion, have manifefied the highell regard.
They have placed their judicial power, not in
Congress, but in " courts " They have ordained
that the "judges" of those courts (hall hold
their offices " during good behavior;" and that
" during their continuance in office, their fab
rics (ball not be eiiminifhed."
Congress have lately palled an act. "to re
gulate (among other things) the claims of inva
lid penlions."
Upon due confederation, we have been una
nimoully of opinion, that, under this act, the
ci.-cuit court, held for the Pennsylvania dillritt,
could not proceed : —
1. Because the business, diretled by this act.
is not of a judicial nature : —it forms no part o!
the power veiled, by the conilitution, 111 the
courts of the United States: the ciicuit cour
mud ccmf-quently have proceeded without con
(htutional authority,
2. Beeaufe, if, upon that business, the cour
had proceeded, iis judgments (for its opinion:
are its judgments) might, under the fame afct
have been reviled and controuled by the legis
lature, and by an officer in the executive de
partment, —such revision androntroul we deem
cd radically inconliftent with the independent
of that judicial power which is veiled in th<
courts ; and conf<.quently with that importan
principle, which is so Urielly observed by thi
conftitu'.ion of the United States,
These, fir, are the teafons of our conduct.—
Be assured, that, though it became ncceH'ary, i
was far from being pleasant. To be obliged ti
art contrary either to the obvious direfliems o
Congress, or to a conflitutional principle, ii
our judgment, equally obvious, excited feeling
in us. which we hope never to experience again
We have the honor to be, with the moi.°per
fi-ft confederation and refpeS, fir,
Your mod obedient and verv humble servants
r JAMES WILSON,
(Signed) 3 |OHN BLAIR,
I RICHARD PETERS.
The President of the United States.
Philadelphia, 18th April 1792.
Mr. Vining laid on the table a rcfolution tha
Congress {hould adjourn on the 4th of May, ti
meet again on the firll Monday of .
Ml . Williamfon from a feleft committee, re
potted a bill for the sale of the unappropriate<
lands in the territory north-well ol the Ohio
which was read a firll time.
A motion, made on Wednesday lad by Mr
Gerry, being called up, and in part agreed to
a committee was, puifuant thereto, appointed
to enquire.into the Hate of the recruiting lervice
and to report.
Mr. Boudinot moved.
1 hat a joint committee of both houses be di
reeled to wait on the President of the Unitee
States, to request he will recommend to tht
people of thele states a day of public humiliatiot
and prayer, to be observed by supplicating the
Almighty, for the lafety, peace and welfare oi
the union.
Mr. J. Smith reported,'that the committee ol
enrollment had prelented to the President foi
his approbation, the bill authorizing the grant
and conveyance of certain lands to the Ohio
company of alfociates.
Monday, April 23.
Mr. Dayton asked leave to present a bill to
authorile a grant of certain lands to J. C. Sym
mes ; but this being declaied to be contrary to
rule, he moved for the appointment of a com
mittee, and a committee was accordingly ap
pointed, to bring in a bill to that effect.
A bill for the lale of unappropriated lands, in
rhe territory N. W. of the Ohio, was read a
(econd time, and ordered for commitment.
A melfage was delivered by Mr. Secretary
Otis, notifying the House, that the Senate hac
palfed a '• bill to compensate the fervicesof the
late Col. George Giblon," in which they defirc
the concurrence of the House that they hac
palled the bill to indemnify the estate of the
late Gen. G eene," with amendments, in whicl
they alio desired the concurrence of the House :
and that they infilled 011 their amendments to the
militia bill—[the two additional leilions, veiling
the Prelident with a dilcretionary power to cal
forth the militia, and eflablithing their pa>
whenever called out. J
Pursuant 10 the order of the day, the House
resolved itfelfintoa committee of the whole---
;Mr. W. Smith in the chair)---and took up foi
conlideration a bill, to provide for calling forth
the militia, when neceffarv, to execute the laws
.ot the union, to suppress infurretlions, and re
pel invulions ; and after lome time spent there
in, role, reportea progress, and had leave to I'll
again.
Mr. Hartley having given notice, that ht
had a report ol a ferret nature to make, the gal
leries were ordered to be cleared.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
On the Secretary's Report on the Excise.
(Continued from our lad.)
THE Secretary observes, that " this is
one ot those cases in which names have
an improper influence, and in which certain
prepolfeffions exclude a due attention to
tails," but the rev, ■fe of his remark is the
truth. By some unaccountable infatuation,
the promoters of the law seemed to
suppose, that they were legislating for the
dark ages, when the human mind, unac
quainted wtth the refinements of financiers,
might have been eaftly deceived by names
without examining principles : Under this
infatuation the odious name of Excise was
not exprefled in the law ; and when it was
tecognized by its features, the Secretary
who framed it, its friends on the floor of
Congress-, some of the judges on the" bench,
Bfc. &c. all pledged theinlelves, that it was
no Excise law. But I wi!h to be informed,
who were deceived by the influence of the
new afitimed names ? If any, they were
those few per!ons only who, pleased wis);
the titles of supervisor, inspector, &c. when
substantiated by a union with handsome sa
laries flowing from sources independent of
the precarious revenue which they were
deflgned to colled, some ot this order may
have been deluded ; but, a; to the people,
they Hill call such officers indifcriminateiy
what they really are, excisemen, not even
excepting the honorable gentleman who
pledged tiimfelf to the public, that the citi
zens were pleased with the law, without
understanding it. Did the Secretary, when
employed in originating the system, and
Congress when they gave it a lanftion, re
lief!: that they were legislating for a petjple
who within twenty years past, could dis
cern the introduction of tyranny and op
prefiion, and even an excise v rapped up in
the specious garb of ? common contribu
tion, and presented under the mild indorfe
meut of a three-penny ditty on tea : a peo
ple who revolted against that innovation,
certainly not for thj magnitude of the du
ty, but from a wife anticipation of the hor
rid train for which it was calculated to
open the way; if this refka-on did occur,
the minister and legislature must have con
cluded that the patriots of America had ra
pidly loft their discernment, and changed
their principles. I acknowledge, in con
formity with the Secretary's statement, that
the people ot the United States have firong
prepofleflions against an excise upon home
produce, but that these prepofTeffions pre
vent a due attention to the fails, I wholly
der.y. It will be conceded, that at the pe
riod to which I had alluded, it was a mat
ter of jult fear and apprehension that an ex
cise on home produce would be introduced
und.T the right claimed by parliament to
tax the colonies.
In the language in which the Congress of
1775 addrefl'ed the inhabitants of Canada,
speaking or the excise, they emphatically
declare it to be the horror of all free states
and the mod odious of all taxes. Where
it has been attempted in the several states
to which my knowledge extends, it has ei
ther been wholly defeated by the paople,
as in New-Jersey, or it has remained an im
practicable and unproductive monument of
the folly of enacting laws in opposition to
the public mind, as in Pennsylvania. In
the latter state indeed there were many
circumstances in its favour ; an imposition
of a limilar nature had been introduced un
der the proprietary eftabliihment, the peo
ple were in the habit of paying large direst
taxes on their land and flock, and from va
rious circumstances in accomplilhing the
revolution, their government had more
thaitajuft proportion of the public- credi
tors to support during the recent imbecility
of the confederation. In this fituacion of
affairs an excise law was enaCted, and the
proceeds of the tax were soon appropriated
to pay the interest of a favored debt, viz.
the depreciation to original holders exclu
lively. But all the'e favorable circumstan
ces could never make the excise upon spirits
prepared from home produce either ref
peftable or productive.
The unconstitutional and difcretienary
powers that were veiled in the officers,
only served to disgrace the government;
for being inefficient as to its'objeft, they
were soon annulled, and the whole system
as it respeCted home produce, though it no
minally remained forfome years locked up
under the special, was triumphantly repeal
ed as soon as that appropriation could be
otherwise supplied ; it ill however I mult
:ontend that although the people of the
United States have strong prepossessions
igainft the excise oil the produce of their
farms and labours, that does not prevent
Jut greatly stimulates their attention to
act; ref'peiting it. In a dictionary of the
English tongue, hich has long been in the
righell esteem, they are taught from their
youth to define an excise as the molt hate
ful tax. They are a people who by reading
lave more generally acquired a knowledge
rf the history of the European nations,
:han is pofleflsd by persons of the fame class
snd station in Europe itfelf. By enjoying
:he advantages, and pofleffir.g the indepen"
ience peculiar to habits of freedom, they
lavealfo become more jealous of every po
itical arrangement that has the appearance
sf being inimical to liberty, and they have
ong known that internal excises, under
whatever form of government they origin
ite, are not merely the means of oppreilion
jut the badges of llavery. Not oniy their
prepofieilions, therefore, but their princi
ples are in opposition to any thing of the
tind ; and their attention is particularly
employed to watch, and examine, and dif
:ern its firft appearance, and molt disguised
ipproach. Changing its nam,", or dress,
■vill but defeat and di.honor those who at
:empt the hnpofition : for though it bepre
ented with an angel's form, soon will the
:loven foot of the demon be discovered and
letefted. Were thel'eprepoffeffionsagainft
in excise less substantially grounded, a wife
egifiature, or a judicious financier, would
till treat them with respect. Even in the
noit despotic governments of the darkest
iges, there have been some prejudices so
ieeply rooted, that the moll abl'olute ty
'ant could not eradicate or subdue them.
-Mexaflder, himfelf; the conqueror of the
,vorld, though he overcome the Perlian
irms, and rilled all their treasures, was
ibliged in a considerable degree, tofubmit to
he prepolielfions of the vanquilhed, to wear
heir drels, and patronize their customs.
Let us now, however, transfer our atten
ion to the fubjefl as it affects the morality
>i the citizens, which is the second charge,
md againlt which the Secretary of tile
i realury stands forth as the advocate of
he excise. Perhaps, if lie had not beenthe
>riginal contriver, he would not have been
he volunteering advocate : I fay volun
:eering ; for, 1 do not find that the House
ipplied to him for arguments or apologies
a hen the petitions-were referred: and if
le had been as disinterested in reality, as in
prudence, at lead, he ought to have appear
ed his arguments would have been of a
nore honefl stamp.
He informs us (page 5) that oaths—" are
lot peculiar to the act in queltion, that they
ire a common appendage of revenue laws,
md are among the ulual guards of those
aws, as they are of public and private
•ights in courts of juflice, they conflantly
jeeur in jury trials to which the citizens of
:he United States are so much and so juft
y attached,"&c. How could the fecre
:ary conceive the idea of comparing the
jath required of the diltiller to ascertain
he quantity of spirits which he has daily
liftilled, and drank, or otherwise disposed
>f, with the oath of a disinterested juror,
Ending him with a religious obligation to
decide jultly in relation to the truth of a
act which it is highly probably he would
io, tho' no oath were administered.
ItTo eminent a character as the secretary
fiad not Hooped to make the companion in
bis apology for the excise law ; I should
have bluihed to examine it : for the folly
and weakness of the supposed analogy mult
be evident, I think, to the molt fuperficial
observer.
Jurors are returned by the fheriff from
the body of the county; they are felefted
out of the molt independent and disinterest
ed characters ; and before they fit down to
decide upon a cause, they are subjeCt to be
challenged by the parties. Thus purged,
they might be fafely trufled without an
oath; but the oath is added to give the
greatest pollible confidence. Their duty fs
to decide upon the cafe according to the
testimony legally before them, and every
man, from the dictates of his own consci
ence, will decide in favour of truth and
jultice, where he has no interest to induce
him to do otherwise.—But how different is
this from the fitiiation of the diftillerof the
produce of his :>nn ! He believes the ex
cise with which he is charged to be imjnft ;
he is obliged, not only to keep an account
of the quantity of spirits which he diftilli
daily, butalfo of the manner of difpoiing of
it, whether it js drank by himfelf and his
family, or by his neighbours. He is in ef-.
fetl required to furnifh testimony againfl
himfelf to his own loss. Now, I afi
would any judicature admit the oath of a
person fofituated as legal testimony ? Sure
ly not. If a person is interested he cannot
be admitted as a witness, if he is ever so
remotely fufpefted of being interested, he
miiit purge himfelf of that suspicion before
his evidence can be received, and after all
this it is still taken with great doubt and
caution. Where then exifrs the analogy be
tween a man in the predicament of a di'lil
ler, and the obligation imposed on an im
partial juror, whose verdi£t can never a:-
sect his own person or property ? It is cer
tainly more properly similar to a party be
ing entrusted to try his own cause. a cafe
which is not even fuppofable ever to be per
mitted.
Another example produced by the-Secre
tary and other advocates of the excise is
more plausible ; I mean tiie oaths by which
the collection of the import is guarded.
No article subject to duty on the importa
tion can be brought into the country, but
the master of the vellel mult, in the firfi
place, report it upon oath, and before it
can be landed, the owner or coulignee,
mult, also enter it upon oath, producing an
invoice of the arcicles, its coft,&c.—the
oath of the captain is rather considered as
official than as the oath of the party, arid
the oaths of bo:h captain and owner, as
well as the invoice, can be examined and
checked by examining the bales, the price
of the goods may be nearly as well known
as the price of whisky, where it is to be
1 worn to; and a faife oath resetting it
could be as ealily checked by the know
ledge of the common rate of such' goods,
here then are efficient means of detecting
h all'efwearing ; and consequently there can
ue 110 great inducement to the practice :
ror who would venture to take a falfe oath,
v> hen he was apprised that examining the
bales, or looking into other invoices,
might convict and condemn him not only
:o infamy, but punishment. But what poffi
bie check can even the ingenuity of the
iecretary devise, to discover the quantity
of spirits which a man has drunk, or secret
ly disposed-os ? Besides, the captains who
import goods, subject to imports, and the
owner, or consignee who, have to swear,
are few in number compared with the
farmers who dirtill during a few weeks, or
months in the year : perhaps, there are
more ftiils, in onelmall county, than there
are importers of foreign goods in the molt
-ommercial state in the union—and cer
tainly the more general a snare becomes to
the morals of the people, it is the more dan
gerous and pernicious.
With refpeft to iaipofu, if commerce is at all
ocontnbute towards the revenue, it mull be
taken at the port of entrv, for, should the
goods be once landed and dtfperfed, they could
r.ot afterwards be afcenained: No number of
officers, or quantity of swearing, could secure
the revenue. He that could secrete bell, and
swear with the greatell solicitude, would be the
gainer ; and Icrupuloufly honest men would be
obliged to abandon commerce. J u (l in such a
lituation is the diOining of spirits from home
produce: it is conduaed by numbeilefs prafli—
doners, and very rarely is found in towns and
villages ; the more remote any place is from the
haunts of commerce, if farming is once introdu
ced, the greater the number of Hi Is will be found.
In this liruation the honest citizen will either re
hnquilh the distillery oroppofe the law ; the bu
finels then talis of course into the hands of men
of relaxed morals, and fordid dispositions, and
when luch people can in this way'obtain a pre
mium for perjury, inflances of the crime will na
turally multiply, and while the secrecy with
which it is committed ensures impunity, the
universality will not only protea it from odium,
but ciown it eventually with a kind of popular
applause.
Let Ihe distilleries be conduaed by the most
depraved part of the community, and let the
excisemen be lele£led from the dregs of the peo
ple, as those at lead of the lovveft order mull ne
ceflanly be, and what security remains for the
collection of the revenue, or what consolation
can government eajoy for the loss of that puritv
of morals and manners in the people, which af
ford in every country the best aflurance in every
emergency of patriotilm and public ipirit. If
he psiiicipal defignof government was only to
promote that kind of happiness which confilts in
the protection of property, much of its dignity
would be loft. I o place men in that situation
in which knowledge will be increased, virtue
cnerdhed, and the all-important interests that
are conneaed with immortality be most effettu
ally promoted, is the great end of the infiituticn
ot organized society. Everything indeed that
has a tendency to render the conscience callous
by the habits of vice, mufl injure those moral
ties which are eflenual to the support of rational
government : ior, certainly, wherever the ma
jority of society lhall be broughtby th'eircrimes
to wijh that they may have no account to give
o heir moral conduß, to the God*>f the fpi
nts of all flefh, a very easy transition establishes
pclitive belief, thai they will not have that fc-rious account to render. In fiich a state of mir.d,
what security can arise from an oath ? Whai
confideuce can there be among!! men, and whai
foundation for the exigence of government it
felf? It is worth remarking that if rational mo
rality is undermined in the United States, fu
perfiition and prieft-craft can furnifli no fuccc
danaum.
I ask then, should the infernal demons e
reft another Pandemonium, and all the cun
ning of the dark conclave of hell to be exerted
10 accompliili the total depiavity of a nation,
whether a more etfeftual method could be sug
gested toaccomp-lifh their design, than to hold
out rewards to periurv ! and does not the pre
sent excise law operate precisely the fame thing ?
Its language unequivocally declares to all farm
ers who keep stills, if you are honed, and swear
the tfuth, you malt pay a third or a .'ourth of
the value of every gallon of spirits that you
difiill ; butifyou swear falfcly, there is no me
thod in the nature of the thing to detest you, and
you Hull save that amount of your property. —
But I dwell too long upon Is cleai a cafe. It
is well known, that in countries where oaths
have been too freely used, they are little regard
ed. Many here can tell, that in Biitain, where
every boasted check and summary power is in
troduced, you may pass the inlpeftion of goods
in a very easy manner for a paltry half-crown ;
and a bowl or two of punch procures an escape
from paying many a pound of excise.
Preserve us heaven (if our rulers do not choose
to do it) from perjured excise-men, aud from per
jured distillers I
However ufeful commerce is to a nation, we
know that it has not been friendly to ftri<ft mo
raiity ; avarice is its principal spring and calcula
tion, the medium through which it is exercised.
Although therefore many of our most refpefiable
characters are engaged in commercial pursuits
yet it is almost impoflible to guard againlt the chi
canery.the smuggling and the l'windling tricks
which it has introduced into society ; and of which
the ruin of numerous families every commer
cial city are constant and fatal manifeftatlons.
It is among the class of society, who live the lift
of nature bv the cultivation of the foil, that we
are to expedt virtue in its greatest purity . (hal!
the avarice and ambition of financiers be permit
ted to sow the feeds of depravity around theii
dwellings ? alas ! are there not ways enough foi
government to polfefs itfelf of a fufficicnt portior
o. the property of so patriotic a»d discerning a
people, without increasing their vices I No serious
person will efteemthefe apprehenfio nsh imerical
they are deducible from the most solid principles,
and fully supported by experience and the know
ledge of mankind; although the people of the
United States, have not prior to the present ex
cile law, encouraged so ensnaring a pra&ice, yel
it is not wholly without example. When heavy
taxes were introduced in the course of the lad war
and when high ideas of equality in taxation as
well as representation prevailed ; a great propor
tion of the plantations in Pennsylvania not heins
patented, records of the surveyor were not ir
poiTellion of the officers of taxation; and then
was a well founded apprehension that people ii
returning their land to the affeflors did not givi
free information : The legislature therefore di
reded the return to be made upon oath ; thougl
this method produced larger returns thau former
ly, yet there were strong presumption of perjury
or at lead equivocation, and in the general opi
nion, the praibce was considered as a dangerou
snare, many conscientious people refufed to l'wear
not withDanding that the penalty was a double lax
and that those persons made the moil fcrupuiouih
honefl return, and the law was repealed afte
two years standing, with common consent. Th
la!- of those years caih was returned upo:
oath, but the small amount of that article tha
was returned, is a proof of the small fecurit
arifing from obliging people to tax themfelve
upon oath where the property can be secreted
which is the cafe in a great degree with whitkf
as well as money. Such instances of the weaknef
of virtue in opposition to private interest, are ti
be lamented; but inares calculated to promoti
them ought not to be encreafed.
SIDNEY.
BALTIMORE, April 17.
Extratt of a letter from a gentleman at Havre-de-
Grace (mouth of Sufquehannah) to his Jriend ii
this town, dated on Friday lajl.
",1 ' lave t ' le pleafureto inform you, thai
a vessel has jull arrived at my wharf here
from the Standing-Stone, ninety miles uj
the Juniata river, and two hundred and tei
miles up the Sufquehannah, with upward:
of one hundred barrels of fuperiine flour,
She is bound round to Baltimore, and I hope
your merchants will be so generous anc
public spirited (not to fay politic) as to give
every encouragement in their power to the
spirited adventurers on board, as they are
the firft and indeed only persons who ever
carried down this river, a cargo of such
produce, to seek a market. If our canal
wa6 finifhed, what might we not expect
from the industrious enterprising people
■who own and cultivate the luxuriant foil
on and near this long extended branching
river I Would it not prove advantageous
to some of your gentlemen, who are fond
01 Speculating in script of all kinds, to make
some attempts effectually to open the river
Sufquehannah.
'** The Report of the Secretary of tht
o#c{ Ury ° n tIK Aa >j° r J ale at thii
PHILADELPHIA.
April 26, 1792.
We learn from good authority, tba l
Bowles, who heretofore occasioned so mucl
mifchief in the Creek nation, in opposing
M'Gillivrav and the commiffisners from ex
tending the line between the state of Geor
jia and that nation, is in confinement or
board a Spanish man of war at Havannah.
from whence he is to be conveyed to Ma-
Jrid, to fuffer for robbing some stores wftli
-111 the Spanish territory, for which Gover
lor Guioci has lodged a formal complaint
igainft him to his Catholic Majesty.
On Friday arrived at New-York from
?ort-au-Prince, the Brig Julia, Capt. Bai
y, with nine passengers, and the day be
'ore, the Brig Silas and Sally, Capt. Clap,
,viih five passengers ; both of these vessels
eft Port-au-Prince on the night of the
ft instant.
It is said, that the pallengers who have
:ome in the above vessels, are chiefly rich
planters from that distressed place, to seek
in asylum in this country.
A gentlemen who arrived in one of these
.'eflels informs, that the illand is still in the
Litmoft consternation ; that the commissary
rom Fiance, has gone to the Cape, having
had no power over, or influence upon the
rebellious multitude ; that' the troops
(about 800) are under no command, hav
ing broke and dismissed all their officers ;
:hat several (kirmifhes took place in the
ast week in March, at Croix de Bouquet,
3y soldiers and citizens, against the negroes,
n which many fell. On the whole, that
:he island is in the mod undefcribable mif
;ry : the town of Port-au-Prince being fur
-ounded by the enemy, with little or no
means of defence—hourly expecting anat
:ack from without.
A person in Rhode-ljland has invented an
Air-gun, which can be discharged, to do ex
ecution, 20 times, each time it is loaded.—
\s nothing is chcaper, and easier to be tranf
Ported, than the ammunition for the above
nieces ; and asfaving much expense, they re
.omraend themselves strongly to the Secre
ary at War, to be used in the approaching
;ampaign againil the Indians.
Last Tuesday the Vice President of the
Jnited States, left this town, for his feat
11 Braintree, Massachusetts, where it is
aid he will pass the summer.
Owing to a long and severe fit of sickness
he senses of the Queen of Portugal have
)cen so fenlibly affected, that her personal
idminiftratiort of affairs is transferred to
ler firft miuifter, Prince Jole de Siabra de
La.
Barque Neptune arrived here, from Cal
cutta, brings intelligence down to the 21ft
sf Novembar last. The forces of the En
;lifh and their Allies, it appears by these
iccounts, are again in motion—Seringapa
:ani still the object of their efforts. The
iftatic papers represent Tippoo as a mon
ger ox cruelty, and give numerous inftanc
:s of his barbarity to prisoners. His force
it Seringapatam is represented as consider
ably weakened by conlfitutional desertions,
and reduced to no more than 40,000 effect
ive He is giving every attention to
render his capital impregnable.
Infallibility in religious matters has prov
ed the ruin of the Popedom. Hence let
our high-fliers take a seasonable hint, and
beware, lef\ political infallibility prove a mill
at l ' le ne-k of that government.
\\ hich they are so anxious to buoy up. If
instead of acknowledging, and correcting
their errors, they with inquisitorial
brand andperfecute, as a political heretic, e
very man, who with republican freedom,
canvalles their measures, in conversation or
in print—they will only disgust the citizen;
or America against a government that i
thus defpo tic ally fuppurted by the tyranny
oj the pen, which is equally galling to free
men as the tyranny of the fwprd.
ExtraH of a letter from a gentleman in Havana
to his Corrfpondent in Baltimore, dated March
23, I 79 2 -
' Since the order from the Governor, for
all foreign vessels to depart the port in eight
days, two French vessels arrived, with
(laves, but were ordered away : One of
them immediately put to fea,'the other,
being in distress, was towed into port,
her slaves put on board an old hulk, with
orders to repair, take her Haves on board
again, and proceed to sea. It is generally
supposed no more will be admitted."
ExtraSfrom private letters received by a gentleman
in Baltimore.
u FortJVa//iingion t Feb. 10, 1792.
_ "Nothing very material has occurred
fiuce my last. In coni'equence of dispatches,
received on Saturday last, from the War-
Office, the major part of the small force at
this place are ordered to be in readiness to
march at the shortest notice—General Wil
kinfon has requested a reinforoement of 60
riflemen from the nearest settlement—Vo
lunteers will appear on the firft summons in
his name ; his popularity is great, as well
with the military as with the militia He
is beloved by citizens and soldiers.—Not-
withftpndjmg the object of the meditated
expedition is perfectly secret. Wilkinfon
has only to put on his hunting-shirt, fliew
his tomahawk, and cry "War-Hocks" and
'he militia are ready, to a man."
'■'■Danville, Ma ch 17, 1792.
"Mr. T S , who had contracted
to deliver a quantity of Provisions at port
St. Vincennes, went from the rapids the 9th
u!t. his boats contained 100 hogs, 40bu r hels
of fait, and fomehorfes, which he landed at
the mouth of Pigeon-Creek,above the mouth
of theWabafh, and proceeded by land. The
second night after lie went onlhore, the In
dians fired 0:1 his party, a few drovers, and
took ail his hogs, horses, and fait.
" A boat belonging to Elliot and Wil
liams, with provilions for Pod St. Vincen
nes, was obftrufled in tha Wabafh by the
Ice : about 80 Indians appeared 011 the
(hore, some of whom went on board the
boat, and demanded a barrel of whisky,
which the boat's crew, dared not refute
them ; when they had drank it out, they
went for more, offering no violence to the
svhitemen, but said they would hsve as
much whiskey as they wanted, that "Con
rrefs would pay," and upon that score,
cook off fix barrels, without doing any
Jther injury"
Extraß of a letter from Lancajler, April 13.
" The Sufquehanna still continues re
narkably high. Two boats are now at
Wright's ferry, from above the Biglflaud.
They came down the Conewago falls with
;reat fafety, one loaded with 200 barrels of
dour, the other 1200 bulhels of wheat. 11
■ ley flioidd be disappointed in a market at
Wright's Ferry, they mean to proceed tc
Havredegrafs. A number of your Lancaf
er mentis intend to-morrow, to fee
:he two arrivals. The improvement of
:iur inland navigation is a lubje-t in which
the landed intei eft of this country is mate
ially interefled."
A Baltimore paper mentions that Mr
Kryder had arrived there from Standing
>toiie, 011 Juniata, with one hundred am
ou'r barrels of flour, having performed thi
voyage in five days. I >is flour pad''.
01- iuperfine, and was fold immediately
it the highefl: price, for cash—the rr.er
:hants presented Mr. Kryder with on;
luadred and four dollars, as a premium fji
:lie rifle he ran, with his two lons, in at
empting the navigation of the Sufquehan
iah, heretofore thought to be impractica
ble for boats of burden.
Extraß of a letter from Major George M' Cully
dated 14M April, 1792.
" I have the pleasure to inform you
jjhat Dunwoodie's waggons arrived here o;
Monday the 10th, in the evening. Oi
Wednesday I had Captain Smith's compa
ay mustered, armed and equipped ; and 01
Thursday they commenced their march t(
rake post at Big Beaver and Yellow creeks
We want but five privates to compleat tin
whole corps under my command, &c.
" It is reported that one woman has beei
killed within the bounds of Wafliingtoi
county ; but I have not official accounts o
Lhis from Capt. Paul, who commands it
that neighborhood : on the contrary, 1 hat
a letter from him, dated the firft of April
which lie fays, that 110 discoveries of In
dians have been made, and that all is well
" To-morrow Major Irwine and myfel
let out to view the lines, and muster Capt
Paul's and Capt. Guthrie's companies."
TravfUtionfrcm the Ltyden Gazette.
Extraß of a letterfrom Paris, Jan. 20.
" Good fenle as well as experience joir
to prove, that a certain firmnefs of conduc
tempered with prudence, when maaifeftec
in the proceedings of great national bodies
rather than in individuals, is the falvatior
of a country. There can be n<> doubt bin
that France will regulate her conduct b)
this principle, and will triumph as much b;,
moderation as by courage over those obsta
cles which seem to oppose the advancement
of the new constitution on every fide. The
National Affemb'y having now aflumed that
authoritative tone that becomes the repre
sentatives of a great nation, with regarc
to the hostile projects in Germany ; and
the executive power being employed ir
measures of circumspection, founded on en
lightened policy, which could not be ex
petted in so ample a manner from a numer
ous assembly, whose deliberations are in the
face of the public, we are happy in obser
ving that fucli a fj>irit in the government has
already produced the happieil effects on the
German princes bordering on the Rhine,
particularly the elector of Treves. —The
court of Vienna, too, acting in concert with
them, with equity and prudence, gives 11-
rooin to hope thatnotwithftanding the pre
sent appearances of war, Europe will re
main in peace, and that the French revolu
tion will have a favorable effect upon every
nation that is wife enough to hate despo
tism without patronizing licentiousness."
*** The following corrections are made
by the author.—ln Sidney (in our lalt)
:d par. line 44, for the lajl, read 'several' :
3c par. fill the blank with 30,000,000 : 2d
col. line to, for two years, read two or
three years.
war department.
Appointments and Promotions in the Army of the
United States,
Rank. Names. Residence.
AP?OINTF:I>.
Major-Gen. Anthony Wayne, of Georgia
vice Arthur St. Clair,
resigned April 7, 1792.
Brigadiers Gen. Daniel Morgan, Virginia
Marinus Willet, New-York
John Brooks, Maflachufetts
James Wiikinfon, Kentucky
Adjutant-Gen. Winthrop Sargent, W.Territo.
Q. Master-Gen. James O'Hara, Pcnnfylvania
Deputy ditto, Joh{i Belli, Kentucky
Fuji Regiment of Infantry.
P R "MOT t D.
Major. Erkurics Bcatty, viceZeigler, resigned.
captains Wm. Peters, vice Strono, promt ted.
Jicob Kingfljury, viceSmiili, ditto.
Ebenez. Denny, vice Afheton, ditto.
Thos. Martin, vice Rudolph ditto.
Thos. Pafleur, vice Beatty, ditto.
Mark M'Pherfon, v. Trueman, ditto.
Lieuts. James Clay, vice Kingfkury, ditto.
Daniel Britt, vice Denny, ditto.
H. Armstrong, v. Thompson, resigned
Bart. Shoinberg, v. Martin, promoted
Bernard Gaines, v. Pasteur, ditto.
John Wade, v. M'Pherfon, ditto.
Second Regiment of Infantry.
PROMOTED. 1
Vlajors. David Strong, vice Heart, killed.
John Smith, vice Trefcott, resigned.
Jofcph Aiheton, vice Burnham, ditto.
Captains. Bezaleel Howe, v. Kiikwood, killed.
Dciniel Bradley, vice Phelon, ditto.
John Piatt, vice Newman, ditto.
Licutens. John 1 tllinghad, v. Howe, promoted
Daniel Tilton,jun. v. Bradley, ditto.
Samuel Andrews, v. Piatt, ' ditto.
John Bird, vice Warren, killed.
Micah M'Donough, v. Heaih, piomo.
Znfigns to fill the vacancies in the firjl and second
Regiments.
AFP INT£D.
Lnfigns. Andrew M'Clary, New-Ham pfti're.
Samuel Drake, Conneflicut.
Dankl BifTell, ditto.
Andiew Marfchalk, New-Jersey.
William Marts, ditto.
Lewis Bond, ditto.
John Low rev, ditto.
Robert Hlinter, ditto.
Peter Shoemaker, Pennsylvania.
William Marcus Mills, ditto.
Jacob Kreemer, ditto.
John Michael, ditto.
Felix ditto.
Samuel B. Turner, Mary'and.
John Whiftlcr, ditto.
Isaac Younghulband Virginia.
Henry Montfort, Georgia.
William Temple Paine, ,'ate of N?C.
Six Majors of Infantry.
APHOIN ftl),
Vlajors. Thomas Butler, Pennlylvnnia.
Henry Gather Maryland.
John Clarke, Pcnnfylvania.
Henry Bedinger Virginia.
Alexander Truemao, Maryland,
promoted from Capt. in Ift Reo-.
William M'Mahon, Virginia.
Surgeons and Surgeons Mates.
>urgeons. Richard Allifdo,. promoted from the
ill Reg. to be the Surgeon on the
General Staff.
John Scott, promoted from Surgeon's
Mate.
John F. Carmichael, ditto.
Nathan Howard, ditto.
AfPOIKTIn.
Surgeon's
Mates. Charles Brown, Pernfylvania.
James Woodhoufe, ditto-
Jofcph Philips, New-Jeifey.
William M Crofkev, Pennsylvania.
Frederick Dalcho, ' Maryland.
James Mease, Pennfy 1 vania.
Theoplilus Elmer New-Jersey.
For garrisons on the wrfern andfovthervfrontiers,
and extra Jervices.
Surgeon's
Mates. William A. M< Crea, Delaware.
1 homas fiutchins, Pennsylvania.
John Scllman, Maryland
George Balfour, Virginia.
James Clayton, Delaware.
Thomas Farley, Maflachufetts.
■ —
Meteorological Observations.
April, 1792.
... , R ar - Tier. Wind. [IVcath
Monday, 16. 7 30. o 44 N .W.)C/oudy.
a 3°- 1 r,5 S. E. Ilaiy.
Cuefday, 17 . ; j 2g . 8 CahnT Cloudy:
2 [ 2 9- 8 68 SW. Showry
Vednefday, :8. 7 2g . 8 49
2 2 9- 9 N.E do.
Thursday, 19. 7 3°. 1 N , E>
1 1 do. do.
Friday, so, 7 30. 0 4& J~-
? 3o- o 46 do. Cloudy.
Saturday, «. 7 g oj , 4 , ~~
~ 3° 0 43 <!»• Cloud;,.
Sunday, 32. 7 2q . g 4Q |~nX \cuK
2 29. 9 51 J do. j do.Mr. Baldwin's SPEECH in the House of Re
presentatives, on the General jQJfumption of the
Residue of the State Debts•
MR. Baldwin said, he was not in the fitua
tionjuft complained of, the reprefenta
tiveof A state, the whole of whose debt had been
before assumed, and therefore interested in op
posing any further aiTumption. He was from a
it ate, che half of whose debt was not before al
fumed, and they were not consoled by obferving 3
that four-fifths was aiTumed for their next neigh
bour, neither was it a solitary instance of treat
ment, such as had not been expe&ed from thai
House ; he did not indulge the habit of com
plaining, but he felt it to be his duty to remem
ber them } and the people, from which he came,
could not easily forget them. He was however
of opinion that thele evils would not be corrected
by a general afTumption, on principles so ungo
vernable as were contained in the proportion now
under consideration, and that it would administer
injury rather than relief*
Each ftatc had been made debtor for the sum
afiumed, and as the general board of commilfion
ers, for fettling all accounts between the United
States and individual states, had reported thai
the whole would be finiflied in a little more than
a year from this time, he was of opinion, it
would give much more effectual relief to the
states Which had been injured in tint apportion
ment of the former afTumption, and upon princi
ples much less injurious than the general and pro
miscuous aflamption, which would be the effect
of the prsfent proposition.
As the subjeCt was not new before the house,
his opinion upon it in general had been oftcr
exprdi'ed. Events had much confirmed his for
mer opinions on the fubjedt, and he was more
than ever convinced of its pernicious tUe&s.
This government, said he, is not calculated tc
bear a heavy burden, it is put to its worst use
when it is put to that use, it lhews the gvvern
xnent to the greatest disadvantage. The genera
national powers, the want of which was so muJ:
complained of before the inftnution ol it, appear
from the experiment, to. be more easy and ma.
nageable than was expected. When confiaere;
as a great society, initituted by fovercigniies r.
cut off the causes of war among themselves, anc
to deliberate on general national concerns which
could be no otherwise provided for, it i 3 an ex
periment honorable to human nature, and is a;
use foil an extent of the fecial principle, as the in
ititution of society over individuals, for the sup
ply .of their wants, and to prevent individua
daughter and carnage. Its friends have
great reason to promile themselves success to th<
experiment, if there can be a due moderation ir
administering it, in confining it to those objeCti
for which it was alone intended. But if any on;
supposes that this government may be made t(
answer the purpol'es, and be put to the fame use
as common governments, and be adminiftere<
upon the fame principles, it gives reason to be
lieve that he is either wicked in his intentions, o
that his mind has never comprehended the lub
jeCt. General questions of boundary, of war aa<
peace, regulation of commerce, a moderate am
general impost for the immediate support of thi
government, might be decided in a manner tha
would reflect honor on the government, and t(
the fatisfa&ion of the people. But accumulati
an enormous public debt, and let this govern
ment be called to the odious talk of applying t<
the individual citizens for a heavy tax, and yoi
will then fee the struCture of the government v
the greatest pofiible disadvantage j it is better suit
ed to any thing than to that j it ought to be direct
ed to such a use with the most extreme and cau
tious reluctance. Probably it will be found, ii
the nature of things, impoflible that it ihould b<
well adjusted to such a use. To raise a
tax, there ought to be a great similarity in thi
circumstances of the persons on whom it is tc
operate, if the burden i? not equal, it mult be ir.
fofne parts cruelly oppretfive. The firfl; obje&,
in attempting a heavy tax is, to be sure that it
feould be equal ; otherwise some will be crouded
to their destruCtion, while others are exulting in
prosperity, and feel no burden at all. There is
such a dilfimilarity in the interests and circum
stances of the extensive country over which this
government is to operate, that it will be scarcely
pofiible to adjust heavy burdens to any tolerable
equality. The whole current of experience in
society forbids the expectation. Even some ol
the states had found their limits too large to pre
lerve the necefi'ary equality in their own revenue
systems. And to suppose that this government
ihould be able to bear burdens in the fame pro
portion to its ftze, without intolerable opprefiionj
is founded neither in good sense nor experience.
This view of the subjeCt supposes the most ho
nest disposition in endeavoring to make the bur
dens as equal as pofiible, But an important viev
of the subjeCt, which ought to be taken on thi:
occaflon, is that there is much less security for ar
honelty of disposition in laying the burdens. Thi
circumstances of the persons who make the laws
and of those on whom they are to operate, ough
to be closely connected, and thoroughly in th<
view of each other 5 the moment they get so fai
dissevered as not to be known and felt by eacl
other, security against oppreflion is gone. In thi:
government there can be but a mere shadow o:
representation, in many instances, not more thar
one for a hundred miles square, they, for a greai
part of the year ire entirely detached from theii
constituents, so that they who are acquaintec
with their circumstances at home, cannot be in
timately acquainted with their conduct, so as tc
judge of the motives by which they are governed
and they who are witnefTes of their conduCt ir
the government, do not know their circumftan
«es at home ; so that men may feel themselves ai
greater liberty to indulge improper paflions, thar
they would if both their circusnftances and theii
conduct were uuder the immediate notice of theii
constituents, and thus the motives by which they
weie governed on every occasion easily explained.
On the general national subjeCts, which are theii
more immediate province, there would be left
danger from this cause, as they would present
fewer objects for individual passions. But in the
collection and management of Vast revenues and
their neeeffary concomitants, there are the itrong
c'.t lures to improper conduit. 'i he love of
power and property are two fierce paflions of
nature, which, if they can be indulged without
any loss of reputation, or even without the fear
of detection, will be sure, in all countries, to
make havoc of the happiness and rights of men.
He did not pretend that i: was pollible altoge
ther to avoid this source of danger, the govern
ment cannot be carried on without resources,
they had been provided to a pietty large extent
on its firft commencement, by general regulations,
which appeared to have been tolerably fatisfaCtory
to the community*
They agreed with him in the general ob
servations which he had made, mult allow that
they were iubflantial reasons against the propor
tion on the table, and that thole debts ought to
be lefc upon the dates, rather than be allumed
by the present government.
Mr. Baldwin said, the general assumption not
only reconciled very ill to the nature of the go
vernment, as he had fliewn, but it also reconciled
us ill to the circumstances of the country $ it was,
m its very nature, designed to draw off business
and property from the different states, and unite
them in one great vortex at the centcr. This is
an evil which appears to have been most cautious
ly guarded againltin every part of the constitution.
How many checks and guards lhew themlelves in
every part, to keep up the equality ot ltates, to
prevent the combination of strong interells in gi
ving special advantages, and that there should be
no preference for the increaie of the ports of one
(late over those of another ? No one can look o
ver the principles of the union, without feeing this
to be the great and Unking feature of the whole
Hates possessing equal powers, feeling and being
Itrongly attached to their own advantages, and,
like individuals in forming a society, giving them
up with reluctance, and only such as appeared
indifpenlible to the prote&ion of the left.
The present objeCt seems to be to con/lruCt a
huge gigantic organization, at the center, which
fhail collect all the vital fluids to strengthen and
enlarge those parts without any means of propel
ling a circulation in return, to keep up the prin
ciples of life in the extremes of the body. The
very figure is monstrous. A state centre and a
late organization, which it is the avowed inten
:ention of the present system to reduce, and as far
is pofiible do away, is neeeffary to preserve the
)rinciples of life in them. The collection of a
evenue in the states, and the circulation of it
among their people, is not only neceflary to their
ifealth, but it is neeeffary to their exiitence j and
hey who avow their opposition to it are seeking
:heir deftruCtion. The inltance which had been
mentioned of a distant (late paying more than half
I million of dollars in a year, which had been lent
>n to the general trealury, without scarcely any
all on the government to receive any part of it
n return, (truck him very forcibly—and the more
orcibly, as the fame impression had been made
ipon him from his own itate. One of their
jorts, he said, would probably this year pay into
he treasury, forty thousand dollars, arid except
he accidental circumstance of there being at this
ime some companies of the federal troops in that
late, who might receive their pay there, he knew
10 caule which could have prevented the actual
ending of almost the whole of that sum in specie
0 this place, which if it were to take place evefy j
-ear, and increased in the manner as is now pro
lofed, would soon drain them of all the medium
fv which business is to be tranfaCfced.
The circulating medium in society, has been
tptly ftiltd the oil of the machine which lubri
ates all its motions} adopt a system which {hall
hus entirely prevent the lupply of it, and the mo-
Sons cannot be easy; when the solid parts are left
o grind against eaoh other, it is not to be ex
leCted that the machine fliould long remain cocl. 1
Mr. Baldwin then proceeded to take a view of
he fubjedt on the grounds which the gentlemen
n favor of the proportion had themselves taken j
hat the general assumption mult intend either ta
king up all the debts of the fiates, whatever may
lave been the cause for which they were contract
d, or there mult be some process to distinguish
hose that were contracted for the purpose of car
ving on the war.
He could not suppose that any person could be
erious in maintaining that all the debts of the
lates contracted for the lupport of their gover
lors or Hate legislatures, or for any other (tate
:urpofes, ought to be assumed by the United
>tates. It had been the universal principle, from
he firft contracting of the debts, that a diftinc
ion ought to be made between what was con
:raCted for the purpose of carrying on the war, and
■vhat was not. He then reviewed the fvftems of
;he old Congress on that subjeCt, and fhtwed how
:hey had at the time ail'umcd the claims of the
Li ate s as the expences were incurred, and passed
particular resolutions for their liquidation, put
ting them on interell upon the general funds,
which was then calLd funding them.
Congress was continually extending their af
lumption fey particular resolutions, founded on the
nature of' each particular cafe, and by the agency
of commissioners, inverted with chancery powers,
to enter molt summarily into all the equitable
considerations attending the particular applica
tions, for several years after the close of the war,
till they supposed they had aflumed nearly all that
ought to be afiumed, some few cases they had
left undetermined as the Penc'ofcot expedi
tion, &c. That there might not be left the least
colour for any comprint on the part of the dates,
that Congress was reluCtant in affumicg any debts
which had been contracted for carrying on the
war, in the year 1786 they appointed a general
board of commissioners, with ample powers to as
sume all debts which might be still remaining,
which upon the principles of equity and consci
ence, they might think ought to be assumed. It
will be seen by the journal, that this passed una
nimouflv, and appeared to give universal fatisfac
tion, carrying the principle as far as it ought to
be carried. The whole of this process has been
founded on the universal impression, that a dif
dnCtion ought to be made between the debts in
curred" for the purpolVs of carrying on the war,
and <?ebts contiacVed merely for irate purposes.
There has been imaienfv labour for these ten or
tw;lve years past, at an expenfc not much ih«r
of a million'of dollars, in liquidating and dil
tinguifhing the proper debt of the United State:
The Houie had been officially informed, that th
business was now near a close, and that the whol
would be tiniihed in a short time. Can any one
he asked, after all this, be hardy enough to inten.
that the United States should be plunged unae
the promiscuous debts of the Hates, regardless o
all diftin&ion ?
He was sensible that the proportion under de
bate profefl'ed to regard the principle, and con
tained a proviso that no state certificates fhoulc
be afTumed, which on the face of them sppeare.
to have been iftued for any other purpose tha;
carrying on the war.
But it was in vain that it contained the princi.
pie, if it was accompanied with no mode of car
rying it into effedt. From that cause he luppo
fed, there was some reason to fufpeft the finceri
ty of the intention.—-He believed there could no
be devised a mode for carrying the principle i«t<
effect more summary and compleat, than tha
which was now in operation, and so near its close :
under the general board of commiflloners.
They had power and evidence to distinguish th«
proper debts, they would strike the balance in fa
vor of states who were adlually in advance, am
then no one could objedt to afVuming it.
He was thus particular on this p art > becaufi
some gentlemen had taken the liberty to place it,
in some refpedfcs, in an unfair view. The forme;
alTumption had not been contended fur as neceiia
ry to the final attainmentof justice, there was n<
doubt of a complete attainment of justice, o<
striking the balance of ths accounts under the iy I -
tem which has been defcri'oed. But some o* the
states complained of the present preflure of thei
enormous debts, and in confidence ot a larte ba
lance appearing in their favor, begged a part pay
ment in advance to be received on account to
their immediate relief. On these grounds only
had the former alTumption taken place. It wa
presumed that enough was left in arrears to Se
cure an adherence to an impartial settlement
which might correct any mistakes in such a ran
dom afi'umption. In this view, the argumen
which produced the former ail'umption, lols* it
force on the present occaliou, it will be diflicul
to conceive that the little fra&ion of debt left 01
the dates is a burden so much more enormou:
than the whole war, that it cannot be supported ;
few months, till there is a settlement of the ac
counts. If the alfumption should, in anyinftanccj
be made to exceed the amount of the claims, it
will be produ&iVe of great discontent and embar
raliment, when it approaches near the balance 01
the claim, it is foregoing the security for the float
settlement of accounts—as this general fettlemen
of the accounts had been continually regarded
during the whole of ihe war, as the minds of the
citizens had been reconciled to quotas and reqoi
litions made on very 11 i-ght information, merel\
by being led to expedl justice from that event, and
as it was the basis on which alone o*r proceeding
since could be explained,—he thought there fliouk;
be some care, not to make it the iniereft of an*
to wiih that it should be relinquished.
Sentiments of a Republican.
A CERTAIN prince once asked one of
his ministers, how he should counteract the
ideas of liberty which he had observed to
prevail among his fubjefts in certain parts
of his dominions. 'Force them, (said the
minister) to rebel, and thus punish them by
ronfifcating the very means they will have
of supporting a struggle for liberty." The
advice was followed, and with the wished
for success. Lewis XlVth alked Cardinal
Richiieu, how he should annihilate the re
mains of liberty which Hill existed in the
kingdom of France. 'Fill your kingdom
(said the Cardinal) with places of public
amusement, and by these means divert the
people from thinking or talking upon the
aJFairs of government." The efficacy of
this measure in completing the defpotifn
of the late French government, is too wei
known to be mentioned.
From the present signs of the declining
state of liberty in our country, it woul<
seem as if some demon, unfriendly to hu
man happinefs,had whispered in the ear
of the iirft Congress that aflembled unde
the present government, that the moftfpee
dy and effectual method of destroying til
liberties of the United States, was to efta
blifh and perpetuate among them a nations
debt.
Innumerable have been the evils intrc
educed by the funded debt of the Unite'
States. But the most alarming one is, i
has produced so much inequality in point o
property among our citizens, as to endan
ger the fafety of our government. Th
most barefaced efforts have been m<ide t<
substitute, in the room of our equal repub
lie, a baneful monarchy in our country
and it is too evident these efforts original
with those states, and with those individu
als, who are moil interested in the funding
system. Examine the newspapers and the
journals of Congress, and you will find thai
the propositions for titles, for an equestri
an statue, for keeping birth days, and foi
emitting royal coin, all come from thoft
two quarters. The propositions are as de
grading to the President of the United Statet
as they are dangerous and insulting to the
people, for they are calculated v to reduce
him to a level with the titled and royal ban
ditti of Europe, who govern their fubjech
by fraud or violence.
If our wealthy speculators, in and oal
of Congress, cannot enjoy their immenft
eitates, without creating among us a pow
er that shall hereafter ennoble them, lei
them tranfportthemfelves across the ocea>
and balk in the Iplendor of courts, birth
day ali'emblies, and royal pictures and fta
Lues in some old and csrrupted cotmtry.
Let the United States disgorge such beaits
of plunder and prey ; and let them do
more, let them immediately devise ways
and means for the payment of every far
thing of the national debt. It is a mill-
Itone about the neck of our country. It is
;ven worse than a calamity that induces
"uffocation and death. It is a monster,
rom whose foetid bowels proceed mo
larchy, ariflocracy, and slavery.
Wajhington, in the Territory of Columbia-
A PREMIUM
OF 500 dollars, or a medal of that value,
at the option ot the party, will be giv
;n by the Commissioners of the Federal
buildings to the person who, before the
ifteenth day of July next, shall produce to
hem the most approved plan, if adopted by
hem, for a Preiident's house to be erected
n this city. Thp site of the building, if
he artist will attend to it, will of course
ilfluence the aspect and outline of h'.splan,
tnd it's destination will point out to him
he number, size, and distribution of the
ipartments. It will be a recommendation
>fany plan, if the central part of it may be
letached and erected for the present, with
he appearance of a complete whole, and
>e capable of admitting the additional parts,
n future, if they (hall be wanting. Draw
ngs will be expected of the ground plats,
•levations of each front, and feftions
hrough the building in such directions as
nay be necelFary to explain the internal
trufture ; and an estimate of the cubic feet
)f brickwork, compoling the whole mass of
he walls. The Commissioners.
March 14, 1792.
Wajhington, in the Territory of Columbia.
A PiEMIUM
OF a lot in this City to be designated by
impartial judges and 500 dollars ; or a
nedal of that value, at the option of the
>arty, will be given by the Commissioners
if the Federal Buildings, to the person,
vho, before the fifteenth day of July 1792,
hall produce to them the ipoft approved
■lan, if adopted by them, for a Capitol to
ie erected in this city, and 250 dollars, or
1 medal for the plan deemed next in merit
o the one they ihall adopt. The building
o be of brick, and to contain the following
ipartments, to wit. „ „ . _
\ conference room I Sufficient to n
\ room for the Re- • accommodate
prefentatives \ 3°°, P ersons
1 J each. v
\ lobby or antichamber to the latter. *
\ Senate room of 1200 square feet
area.
\n antichamber or lobby to the last. J
2 rooms of 600 square feet area, each, for
:ommittee rooms and clerks offices, to be
>f half tiie elevation of the former. Draw
ngs will be expected of the ground plats,
levations of each front, and feftions
hrough the building in such directions as
nay be necellary to explain the internal
jructure, and an estimate of the cubic feet
f brickwork composing the whole mass of
Jie walls. The Commissioners.
March 14, 1792
r> AN away on JVednefday night laft> a Negro
Man, about twenty-three yean old j bad on a
\ght colouredfijort c-oat : took with him a pair of
:nt her breeches and a pair of green ftuff do. a bea
icr hat half wcm y narrow brim and deep crown $
pair of boots $ firiped cotton and Jtik Jlockings-- -
>e is Jlim made— and writes a legible hand---
'as, lam informed, procured a pas and certificate
f his being a free man. It is probable he will
ndewor to get on board some •vefj'tl, either at this
>lace or New-York. He has a small fcarr under
is chin occasioned by cutting out a wen. I will
ive Forty Doi.a'S reward to any person who wr>
'eliver hint to r/.e c.t this place, and pay all reafor ?-
•le expences,
ANDREIV MOORE.
No, 118 Spruce-Street,
yipril 23.
CHESTER TOWN BALTIMORE
STAGES.
THE Eaftern-ihoie Stages, by way of Ciiefcer
town to Baltimore, start regularly from
nines Thompson's, Indian Fourth-street,
Philadelphia, every Monday, Wednesday andFri
lay mornings, precisely at 7 o'clock, and on :h
---ame mornings, at four o'clock, from Mr.Grant*>
n Baltimore. The cultivation of the country, \
:nd goodness of the roads, together with the at
ention that lhail 'o° rv.id by the proprietors, wiii,
t is hoped, be a lutiicicnt inducement for a pr?-
erence being given to this route.
JAMES THOMPSON,
ROBERT HODGSON,
N. B. Light Wagons for hire by James
fhompfon, at the Indian Queen.
March 30. law.
The Printing-Office of the National Ga
:cttc is removed, from No. 239, to 209, High (or
Market) Street, above fifth Street*
PRINTED BY
CHILD'S AND SWAINE,
AT OFFICE, NO. 2C9, ' HIGH-STREET
NEAR SIXTH-STREEt,
PHILADELPHIA.
i? n
« 3 .
n 2
& s
O* o
? tr
<T>