Vol. I.
For the National Cazette.
No. VI.
HAVING in your p:ip«r of Vfjy 3d
mentioned Dr, Logan'* rotation of
crops, it may be proper to observe that
altho' the general principles of that rota
tion are agreeable to the new and moll ap
pmved mode o! English husbandry ; yet
the particulars of it mull always be liable
to alteration according to the Puliation or
foil of the farm. The quantity of flax and
potatoes proposed to be railed will tin
doubt appear iinproper to many gentle
men in Virginia who hitherto have been
too commonly fupplicd with linen from
Europe, and who have confined their cul
tivation of potatoes to the garden merely
for the table. In ground weil manured
I have found both crops profitable and
highly ufeful. It may be regarded as a
difgracc to this agricultural country that
we do not cultivate a fuflicient quantity
of flax to supply the whole consumption
of linen within the United States. With
regard to potatoes, their introduction on
the farm is one of the greatell improve
ments of modern husbandry. For several
years I have made potatoes the principle
food for cattle, hoffei, fliecp, hogs and
poultry, for the two latter they should be
boiled ; for the former they should be
washed clean, cut small, and mixed with a
finall quantity of indian meal and cut draw
Oxen and sheep will fatten more in one
wc-ik on this food, than with turnips in
two.
The means of giving and perpetuating
a fertility to the foil, without the aid of
any mlnure eacept what can be created
on the farm, conflitutes one great objedl
in a rotation of crops. I have made a
variety of experiments 011 this fubj -ft, and
have considered it well. lam of opini
on,
ift. That no rotation of crops be
pursued which will not exhaust th- foil,
without the periodical application of ma
nure either immediately plowed into the
ground or by the pafluring of cattle.
idly. To give one impovirilhed acre a
full drcfling will require a quantity of ma
nure nearly equilto the value of the land.
jdly. No rotation of crops can be pur
sued that will enable a farmer to procure
from the (lock and produce of the farm a
greater quantity of manure than will an
nually fully drefa more than one ninth part
of his farm.
/ftldy. That a nine years rotation of
cross connected with the bed barn yard
management will forever support a farm
within itf'elf in the liigheft degree of cul
tivation.
I have been pointed in my remaiks
refpefting manure becaufi the gentlemen
in Virginia are too inattentive to this im
portant article of good husbandry.
Some fpeculltive men have ventured an
opinion that manure was not necessary <111
a farm. Tull and his followers maintain
that the complete pulverizing of the earth
by the plough &harrow is ail that is requi
site for perfetting the growth and vigor of
plants. Tull was himfelf perfunded and en
<lcavoured to purfuadc others that this
alone would fuflice, without the aid of ma
nure! which be contended could only
fcra i" divide tkc foil tad rendei it friibli.
Experience, the furell guide in all human
affairs, affords us the moll convincing dc
monllrations to the contrary of this opini
on. But altho' we cannot adopt Tull'*
principles of cultivation to the extent of
his own ideas : yet it mull be allowed
that Mr. Ttlll's exertions to support a fa
vorite lyftem have been of infinite service
to agriculture, as they have tended to
convince farmers of the prodigious advan
tages to lie derived from deep ploughing,
4 j'ood harrowing, and putting the ground
in a good tilth before lowing.
Tlic Philadelphia lociety for promoting
agriculture have lately Uni ted a new idea
refpefting the poflibility of ground being
rendered forever productive without ma-
By P. FREN EA U : Puklijhcd Wkdnejdays and Saturdays, at Tuirtij Dollars pey annum.
WEDNESDAY, August i, 1792.
nure. In the Ift publication of premi
ums offered by t 1 e fjciety, it is oblcrved
that "the rotation of crops has b- tn
found in England conjlantly to improve the
{jit i■ /of exhau/ling it." I with the
i.iMi'lf --.en in Virginia not to be mtflsd by
this va/ue affcrtion of the society ; and
whilll they a:'e building ) irge barm to
contain tli ir crops, that they would not
neglect good liable yard* to collect and
prefervc wi.'.nuic. Tl.. ..cited advocates
of the rot iti "i fyilem in lin{land only on
lend that a nmrle of crops in which clo
vei- is iuttodiKcd may be pursued with
greater advantage to the farmer than to
fuller his fields to continue two or three
years covered with weeds, which was the
plan of con Inking tlieir farms previous
to the in trod it tiott of clover. Agreeably
to the new fyllem of agiitulture it is evi
lent that the bell rotation of crops con
lifts of the greatell niimber of valuuble
:rops procured by one full manuring.
The Philadelphia agricultural lociety
iffcr a premium of two hundred dollars
for the heft experiment of a five years
eourfe of crops conducted upon principles
which have been prac.ifed in England.
A five years rotation of crdps may be
purlued with advantage on a few acres in
the neighbourhood o> a large city, from
whence any quantity of manure could be
procured. In this iituation a eourfe of
crops could not take place that would be
more productive and valuable, than that
mentioned in l)r. .Logan's 13th experi
ment; potatoes, barley elover,clover,wheat.
I'he four lirlt particularly calculated foi
the vicinity of a populous town ; the last,
valuable in any lituation—but 1 do know
Irom a variety of experiments made to af
cvrtairi this point, that alive years rota
tion will not afford the (aimer a fuffieient
v iriety of crops ; and what is of greater
importance on a wellcondudled farm that
no crops, even connected with the beftucco
nomy of procuring employing the manure,
will furnifh a futßeient quantity to dress
one fifth part of the farm annually—lt is
with the bell management that the pro
duce of u farm will annually aff.ird a fuf
licieticy of manure for a ninth pa t of it.
Lord Kaimcs in his valuable publication
on agriculture observes that no branch of
hulbandry requires more Ikill and sagacity
than a proper lotation of crops. He divides
plants into cttlmiferous and leguminous
hut does not pretend to fay t'i it ether en
riches llie foil: the former lea'.es the foil
hard and bound, whilll? the latter tends to
mellow and open it, therefore it becomes
nccei'.ary that alternate crop'', culmiferoim
and leguminous, Inoutd form the rotation
Nor are there many foils that will [land
food even with this favorable rotation tin
left relieved from time to time by ptijlur\»\<
1 few ye.irs. A rotation of crops tor nine
years coti'd not be carried on to advantage
without paflure ; but on anextenlive farm
pallure will be found as necclfary in a
rotation as any crop ofgmin.
s/ !<' ARM ER.
PHILADELPHIA.
[It was observed in our last that, from
the gcneial tenor of the toalls drank in
different parts of the United States, the
genuine fpiril ot republicanism was ra
pidly revivin", in this country, and that
the cause of France was becoming the
cause of every free American. As a cor
roborating proof of wlwt was alTerted,
we iubjoiu the following account of the
commemoration of the I'OUHTEICNTH
of July, at Carflile, in Pcnnfylvania j
Saturday latl being the anniversary of
the ever memorable French Revolution,
the day was commemorated by a refpt-dla
ble number of the citizens of this borough
and its vicinity, friends totbc grand event.
Iu the afternoon they aMetnbled at Mi.
Gibfon's farm, on a beautiful lawn near
the margin of Letart Spiing. where, tin
dcr a pleating Ih.ulc, alter tpenuing ton;e
time iu friendly fclli.ity, they pai'.ouls. of a
cold collation provided for the occasion—
On this delightful spot, (rclenihliug tint
on which Liberty might be prcfunied to
have fir It erc£ted a banner) tlic company
formed h larg cir Ic, aud bavin,; invited
tlie truly venerable Mr. Robert Gibfon
to the chair, tiic following toattu were
drank, accompanied with three cheers
and inllrnmental inufic.
1 The 14th of July 1789 and 1790.
2 Thtf king of the French.
3. she French nmion—may it ever re
tain virtue to improve its excellent conlti
.iilicn, and valor to defend it from foreign
anu domellic foe*.
4. l'he President of the United States
£9 cheers
J. Ihe Governor and Ctate of Pennsyl
vania.
6. Tile members the French Nation
nl Affcmbly— may they enjoy the felicity
of feeing their country happy and flou
riming under the operation of a free con
dilution and equil laws.
7. the focietie# all over the world,
whofc object in to obtain Uuiverfal Liber
»7«
8. The memories of the illullrious
champions of Frcnch aud American Lib
erty.
9. Thomas Paine, James Maekintofii,
anrt all writers in defence of liberty and
the rights of Man.
!o May the Empire of K ngs, Frielli
and Nobles fall before the Empire of rca
fon, freedom, aud found philjfophy,
11. The liberty of the press—may it
ever be free to difleminnte knowledge, aud
mankind be free to imbibe it.
<12. May the Patriotic zeal which over
tin ew the Haltile, animate all the nati
on! of the earth.
ij. t he elevation of virtue mid know
ledge to the firft magillracy of every na
tion, inltcad of the unfounded pretentions
of hereditary right.
14. The armies of France—may they
be infpircd with true patriotilm, valour
aud difciuline, to overthrow the foes of
freedom
15. May the war againll France be the
lali elfort of tottering monarchy againlt
Freedom and the Rights of Man.
16. Miy those Senators who (hut their
noon againlt their conltituen's find their
rewatd by being excluded fron the confi
dence of the people.
17. The house of Representatives of
the United States — may they ev<r consult
the interelt< of their constituents.
it). The emancipation of Ireland from
the venal influence of an EngliAi Govern,
uiei'.t, aud from the oupreffion of a cor
rupt parliament.
[9 cheers.
19. Therifingj generation and the glo
rious profpeila of succeeding ages.
20. The fair sex all over the world •
21. Peace on earth and good will to
ull men.
After which the celebrated song, viz.
"O'er the vine cover'd lulls and gay
region* of Frailer," &c. was lung by a
number of excellent voiecs, accompanied
by inltrumental music.
The company difpsrfed with the ut
molt harmony and good order, fully con
vinced that the annual celebration of this
great event, would have a tendency to the
prumotioii of u general freedom.
Extradts from Gazette dc trance, Gir/ettc
Univer/elle, and other French news-pu
pern, to the middle of May.
Pari 1, April 25. A translation intc
Fiencll is now pubhfheil, by M. l'uiflon,
us Dr. Robertfon's tjjtfU4l rtjttff<htl 1 ut•
1 lie knowledge the antic lit 1 had if India,
und the commercial inUrcouife \»rtn thai
part of the world, before the difeovery ol
1 lie | all.igi - i>y the (.'ape ol I
It is beautilully printi d, and cinnpri/.ed in
utie vd! 11111 > i;i •; \(> p.i'■■, with 1 \- > 1 ■ ■ 1 ;;'
folding map* ol the eOUiltiie'j IipOII which
it treat*.
Numb. yq.
The National Aflembly had no sooner
decreed the free cultivation of tobacco
through the kingdom of Fiance, than the
royal agricultural society not only pub
lKhed and distributed gratia a treatile up
on the method of railing tobacco, but par
ticularly enjoined two of the members,
Meflieurs Lefebore and Parmentier, to un
dertake the railing of different species of
the plant, frbm feeds of the bell quality of
each. During the luit year they have
been coullantly diffeminatlng thefc differ
ent kinds through the kingdom j and the
ijuantity of feed gathered lall season, gives
them an opportunity to disseminate it mii
verfally the prqfcnt year. The fcvernl fpe
eies of the tobacco plant cultivated by
thefc Gentlemen, are the following,
t. The Little Frederic, 2. the Virginian,
3 the tarvelciif; 4. the /IJjliaii ; and, 5.
:he Fhmdrijn,
May 2. Two conventional treaties arc
:omrnunicated this diiy from the minister
}fforeign affairs to the All' mhlv, and are
lecreed ; the one with prince Lovvtiuf
heim, the other with the reigning prince
jf Sahn Halm. These two treaties, when
ratified by the National Assembly, will
crve as an answer to all the boll of Hau
lers with which certain powers have affedt
td to Itigniati/.e a great nation, who luve
/indicated theml'elves into freedom, and
Arho wish 10 oppose their enemies with no
jthcr weapons than icafoti and juliice.—~
i'he court of Vienna to irritate againtt ug
tie whole Oerir.anic body, is ince'l'antly
iounding in the ears ol the German
;>rincei, that after the French have rob
led them of their rights, their intention is
to deprive them of tie just indemnificati
ons i hey demand. The National Affem-
Jy have it in their power to prove to all
Europe, and particularly to the court of
Vienna, their character for equity and jul
tiie , and that court ought to be cOnviuc
rd that regenerated France is worthy of
'icrelleem and alliance ; and that one day
jr another (and it is probable the period is
not far off) (he will again be, as Ihe has
rver been, the support and Hay of Ger
manic liberty agatnll its pretended friends,
who weie always, in reality, its tnoft de
termined enemies ; who only excite Ger
many to war, in order tDexhauft her trea*
Fure, and who in fecking an indemniliea
l ion for an odious war, are endeavouring
to dil'inember the empire.—France cm,
with the ltri&dt truth, declare to all parts
of the German empire, that her declaration
of war was only meant againlt Auftriu, and
that it is her wish to be at peace with all
the powers cf Eutope, particularly the
members of the Germanic body, who
from their foliation and common inteiciU
ought to remain forever our friends.
May 3. The Hieur de Doiffy, who is
treasurer <.f the charity lociety for the
parpofe of delivering Irom pnfon llich
persons as have been lun:; h Id in confine*
men: fur debts due to nurles for attending
their wiveu, the month through, while iu
child-bed, has given in his account of the
charitable donations that have been pre
sented at the Chatelet, for the three lad
Sundays. Oil these three days a fufftci
eiicy of donations I.as been received to
free from the gloomy mclofiire of a prison
one hundred and twenty Jix heads of fami
lies. The amount of the debts of these
unfortunate men for nurse-services to their
wives was, H 17 hvrcs, 4 foils, (J deniers—
[£. 623 Pennfyivania money ; not
quite 51. a piece against each debtor.
Civittj Vcthiu, Apiil 27.—"Religion,
at Rome feiins to have but a fmnll tffei't
in reforming the hearts and moral* of man
kind. The vilelt murdeis are nlinoll
every day committed in that metropolis,
and yet capital punishments are the rarclt
thing iu the world i that the pi icfthood
may retain an influence and weight* the
baleil ol mankind are supported in their
nefarious attcmps & aitn.d crimen, piovid
ed a church ran be found to receive them
before thty are anefted by the officer of
julliev*. For fom: time pall 'diltrclUnjjjaewahas lately ariived frcm Orvietto(4s
miles north of Rome.) The people ot
that town, taking in dudgeon certain
mandates of the bi:hop and governor,
gathered into bodies during the night,
and ran through the flreets, with laurel
branches in their handr, crying out,
liberty ! liberty ! — These movements
(similar to whkh have also taken plate in
other towns of the papal territory during
the present spring) have forced the go
vernment to redouble its vigilance for the
maintenance of good order and public
tranquility Strangers, in particular, are
watched more than at any former period,
cfpecially those who reiide in Rome —
Yelterday two men of thel'rench nation were
taken up, and several others, supposed ini
mical, would have (hared the fame fate,
if they had not made a timely escape.—
The Herculean talk has been lately enter'
ed upon of clearing Rome of mendicant
aliens, the 'noil of them having become
immense. The eyes of the government
have been some time open up;;:i the incon
veniencies resulting from so hideous a po
pulation. Heretofore, it was almost as
bad as atheism, to fay, that it was the du
ty of the government to rid itfelf of this
leprosy. The prejudices of millaken cha
rity, countenanced by a multiplicity of
religious orders that found their interetl
therein, have, till lately, opposed a reform
in this particular. This, however, will
be one of the good consequences of the
present horrible revolution in France, the
very memory of which o::r government
would, if possible, efface from the annals
of mankind, if overturned."
May 4, Tho' Ihe patriotic French so
far refpedt the memory of the late Empe
ror Leopold as not to declaim against 'it,
yet they are not the less sensible of the
dangerous policy of his conduit, The
whole tenor of that policy, while emperor,
was a plain proof that it was his intention
to modify the French conftitut'on ; and that
under this view, he projected a concert of
powers. To Iteer clear of opposition, he
had persuaded himfelf that only a faction
exillecl in France, equally hostile to the
king and the constitution, and whose ma
chinations prevented the return of the
emigrants — 1 he king of Hungary f;ems
infatuated with the fame delusive system,
and is bent upon fomenting divisions a
mongst the French and meddling with
their in'.ernal trouble?, without crfcover
ing a difpofrtion to attack the ruling in
clination of (he public. Like his father,
he attributes entirely to the Jacobins, the
enthuiiailic love of liberty, the attach
ment to equal rights, and the determina
tion that they fh. ll not be infringed. But
he ought to have known that the real pat
riots 01 1' ranee are those who disapprove
of the measures of the high flying Jacobins
and }tt confederate with them so far as
their aim is simply to uphold the confli
tution. All the French p-friots, under
this or whatever denomination, are persua
ded that the worll confequcnces are to be
feared from the ariltocrats, a faction that
would never have exilted if Leopold, in di
rect opposition to treaties with France,
had not encouraged and protested them,
and fuffered them to be formed into armed
bodies throughout the empire. In fliort,
the plan of Leopold was, and that of his
fuceefTor is, 110 other than to perpetuate
the troubles in France, to eredl the nati
on into two parties, to annihilate one by
means of the other, and thus at length de
stroy both and re-ellablifh despotism. h
is even not improbable that the views of
certain powers extend so far (as formerly
in Poland) to make a partition of our
kingdom, and fubjeft it to ail the horrid
circumflances of that once ddlrefled couu ■
try.
May 15. A few days ago a man presen
ted himfelf at the bar of t'.e National
AfTembly, who announced himfelf to be
from the back woods of North America.
He ffud he had heard of the French re
volution, had taken a decided part therein,
and had been at the pains and expense of r.
voyage to Europe, with a view, firft, to
enrich France, and finally the whole world
by communicating a discovery of which
he himfelf was the author. ' The good
man next informed the Affem! ly that his
composition was such as would at once
bleach and walh clothes, take out any kind
of spots, and in every refpeft serve as a
fublhtute for soap. He offered his secret
to the nation, and assured the afiembly,
upon his honour, that, if adopted univer
sally through the nation, there would be a
yearly saving of at least eighty millions of
hvrea—The back woods man was delired
to accept the honours of t>e fefuon.
Porthe National Gazette.
Mr Freneau,
a patriotic member made
y that memorable and never to-be
forgotten Motion in the House of Repre
fentatives of the United States, for ren
dering jnftije to the war-worn soldier, and
to tile wi.iows and orphans of th,.fe who
had fought the battles and spilt then
blood in the defence of America, it bro't
upon htm the clamorous reproaches an 1
virulent invective of a party, who bein ;
previously iritereltcd, had predetermined
to enrich themfelvcs at the facrifice of
juflice and the belt interests of their coun
try.—Hence, at the adoption of the pre
sent oppreflive and iniquitous funding sys
tem, the jult djfcrimination proposed to be
made by that enlightened ilatefman, be
tween original holders and ihe purchafersof
the evidencesofthe public debt, wis repro
bated as unjnft, arbitrary and wicked,
subversive of public credit, and derogato
ry to the public inferelt. Amidfl the
noisy clamours and the mock patriotism
of an intereiled set, who with vemorfe
ief; avidity Itood rea'iy prepared to vote
to themselves twenty fhiilings of the pub
lie money-, for every 2/6 which they pof
fefled of the public debt, there were a few
who attempted to juflify such a barefaced
proceeding, by declaiming in the Socratie
itvle of reasoning, and, secure in their ma
jority, triumphaiitly demanding, IViov/ere
the friends of and supported
its credit i Who held their confidence in
the government, when none others did :
Who aflilled the poor creditors of the go
vernment in their neceflities and in
(iiort, as the conclulive argument, What
complaints will purchasers make ?
It happened that a friend of mine, who
was present on the occaiion, undertook to
paraphrase the dogmatical reasoning of
those declaimers, in a manner so forcibly
|ull, and pointedly true, that conceiving
it to be a fair exposition of the principles
of the funding system, and as such to me
rit preservation, I committed it to writ
ing at the time, and now fend you a copy
For publication in your ufeful gazette.
" What complaints will purchasers
make'"
They may fay—
We were the friends of your government,
and have supported its credit.
We had confidence in your govern
ment, for vve have rated its credit at 2/6
in the pound.
V/e have afiifted your poor creditors in
their neceflities, for we have 3fked of
them only 700 per cent, premium on the
:apital we advanced them on your credit,
;r.d 4.',' per cent, annual interell.
Ye are knaves—for you refufe us this
nodirate. profit,
\ e are knaves—for ye allow us only
:he pitiful compensation of 300 per cent.
.>ll our capital, and 2a. per cent, interell.
are knaves — for you had no more
audable motive, than barely that of put
.ing something into the pockets of men
rom whom you had a full discharge :
Or men, whom you had only robbed of
I 7/6 in the pound :
Of men, who had only served you 7 or
1 years, without pay or interelt allowed :
Oi men, who were able to bear all the
tardfhips of iicknefs, inclemency of fea
-0113, wounds, iicknefs, imprisonment,
.luelty of enemies, want of every comfort,
indei which thousands perished an 1
therefore may now easily bear that of rob
oery.
Yeaie knaves—for vc have difappoint
-d our reasonable expectations, to fatisfy
-heumeafonable wilhes of thofemifcreants.
BELISARrUS.
July 30th, 1792.
F° r the National Gazette.
On the . pjioin'ment of Conferees and Cor
relpoiidents for the forming a Ticket fox-
Members of Congress, &c.
By H. H. BiiAcKENniDOE.
IT is the happiness of a free govern
ment that every one may speak his mind ;
winch if he die! not do, he might forget foine
times, that he had the privilege, t'indinu
a public question agitated at this time, J
ihah fay what I think, if for 110 other rea
-1011, at leait to (how that I do think, ails!
have an opinion 011 the fubjeft : it is that oi
the appointment ol' < .onferees and Corres
pondents, lor the forming a Ticket foi
members of Congress, c.
I o such appointment 1 am oppo.cd ; be
ca.ue at no city, town, diltrift, or village
meeting, on a partial or Ihortuotice, which
mult be thecale, by persons ailimiina an au
thority to call a meeting, where 110 fyltem has
oeca previouhy laid dowu, or cau be balt.l>
adopted,to fectire a fair appointment, a few
tuimiituoul!) attending, forward and noil'y
men JWranguirig, the chairman propo'ing,
or Tome one bringing forward a ticket,
v, hi ch tile balk do not chnfe, on principle ot
delicacy, to oppose ; I fayatnofuch meet
ing, and all town or diltrict meetings will
be Inc.';, can an appointment take place
which will justly represent the people. Or
even if the whole of the citizens Ihotikl as
semble, a thing not to be expected, and
ballots fairly taken, so that those appointed
were really the choice of the town or dif
trift, i.s it certain that the choice of tlr fc
at tiie conference, would be the choice
which the people would otherwise have
made ; because the persons that go for
ward will have attachments and resent
ments, interelts and partialities, hopes and
fears, which those at home know nothing
of, but which will be fully exercised when
they come to form a ticket, and it will be
easy for them when they come back, to
frame an apology for the choice made if not
agreeable, by faying they were the only namn
that would go down with the conferees of other dif
t"Bs- The fact is, that envy or jealoufv of
equal or superior abilities will unavoidably
operate at any fucli conference to preclude
men of merit. Such a conference may be
justly styled a junto or cabal; and I never
iound truth, honour, juffice, or generosity
with fucli yet. It is the circumstance that
makes men ait and be what they are, and it is
a good request " lead us not into tempta
tion, but deliver us from evil." I judge
from my own feelings, and know thaewere
I at a conference at this moment there are
thole v\ hom I would oppose. just because 1
do not like them ; they have injured or in
sulted me and I hate them, though the peo
ple that sent me know nothing of it, and
have no fnfpicion but that I would make
the fame choice that they themselves would
make. If all men would speak the truth,they
would fay that the cafe with them would
be the fame. The people therefore at the
town or diftrici meeting, put themselves
in the power of the paffious of the conferees
and do injullice to thof. persons whom they
would otherwise have ciiofen.
A ticket, once pit up is wot easily taken down ;
and therejore the act ot the conferees will
unavoidably have an influence,tho' itdeferv
ed to have none; becaule though the citizens
might never have thought of proposing yet
tiiey may be unwilling to oppose the name;
brought forward ; and (he bare annuncia
tion is an advantage which the names in the
ticket have in their favor ; so that it may
be hopelel . to oppose, and to bring forward
others in the face of this advantage.
I he appointment of conferees,therefore,
becomes, onihefe principles, an invafioii ot
the right of the citizens at large to think,
judge and act for themselves in the firft in
ltance. It is a fraud by one neighbour on
another, the choice being brought forward
by a machinery of chu!ing,in which one may
acquiefceand another not. Leave it to every
ni.in to frame iiis ticket, or be immediately
inltrufted by others how todoit; but let it
be his own ast, and there is no deception,
or injustice.
But more especially the appointment of
conferees becomes amnvajion of the rights oj
tlwfe who are or may be candidates, being a fore
ltaHiiig of the publicchoice ; a preoccupy
ing the minds of tiie people, and not leav
t6e broad balis of a general and
unbiafled vote.
I l.iall be a.,.cd tnen, by what means, oil
the prelent principle of Hate election, (liall
the electois in the different diltrifts fix up
on names for the purpose of a ticket.
I iiey may chufe for themselves with rc
fpea to a member or two from their owj;
quarter ; but how for members for othei
quarters of the lfate ? The method is na
tural, lunple, and eaiy. There are ga
zettes in tiiis city ; there is a gazette in'al
molt every town or village through tilt
Hate. Let any mail who otters his fervict
to the public, announce his name in theft
as is done every day in Virginia, Maryland
and other places; or let some one win
knows his abilities and inclination, an
nounce it for him ; and of those announcec
let the people take their choice.
u A \. t0 COl °i"efpondents, I have the fame
objection to such committees as to those o
conferees. It is not always that tliev
judge well with whom to correspond ; el
penally when the distance is conliderable.
I havefeen papers in the weltem countrj
adcli effed to persons and mvfelf a
mom the reft, some of which allociates 1
ui.ddined, knowing them to have just aboui
as much mtereft m our politics as a brindlei
cow, and no more. 1 could not conceive
how m the name of God they had evei
heard of them ; audi mention this to (hew
how little even the molt intelligent men ar
a cliltance kliow whom to consult, and on
whom to depend for influence or informa
tion ; the fact is, they are in the power of
persons who may have a temporary life and
come forward in affairs, and have relation;
or lupporters, that have consequence with
them, but with no one else.
In the bulinefs of elections it is my wifb,
that uie light or knowledge with relbeft tc:
men and characters may lliine naturally and
.[I a h and though like the fun, it may be
cloud«l or obfeured in places by ,liade of
trees or accident of wind and weather !
yet the chance is much more in favour of
heH of IC | ' m , lr ° m f ny adventitious
• 1 . , ' Cll: " s by which mathemati
to Steeple £ f, e luu '.
rays, or direct them where the* are not.
Were it, in nature, to be left to them, we
lhould noc have an equal fun, and taking
then padions into view, some would have
all day, and others all night. I would
Uarcely trufl David Riltenhoufe himfelf
with such a' glafi, though the best man in
the United States; but I would rather leave
ii to the fun, who, as far as I can recollect,
has for several thousand years past, given
heat to all alike, and the plant in the wil
derness has an opportunity of growing as
well as that in the gardens of the bota
nilts.
I feel myfelf interested on tills question ;
not that I have any object atprefent of be
ing a member of Congress, or elector of
l>i efidents ; but the day may come when I
may ; and I would not vviih rnyfelf pre
cluded by any system that may be now
adopted, and become the custom, which I
do not think will he favourable to me or
any one who thinks more of the public
opinion than of that of particular persons.
July 30.
Fot the Natiojjai. Gazette.
HOWEVER mankind may be diftin
guilhed by colour, nations, or manners, all
are regarded by the friends of the people
as brethren, as the children of one great
parent, and all equally entitled to the sove
reign rights of man. It is 110 wonder, then,
Mat thole unfeeling mercenary wretches,
who wifli in indolence to enjoy the profits
of other mens' labour, should be irritated at
every attempt 10 inform the minds of the
people. 'But a has appeared in the
world which will lead man to the funda
mental principles of the Christian religion,
i>t doing unto other men as we with others
Lo do unto us, and to love our brother as
ourfelf. The world has been too loiit
kept in the dark by the myiteries of reli gioii
and of government. It is time to recur to
irll principles. Whist the friends of man
kind arc engaged in bringing about this re
.ormatioi: by diiluling a spirit of rational
enquiry, they limit expert all the a'jufe
,vhich a tottering interejl can invent. The fame
nfoltnt language agamft the real whi<rs of
America now fills the pages of the court ga
zette of the United States as appeared in
.he gazette of St. /aw«<luringour arduous
truggle for liberty ; the fame fulfoni
:omniendation of every measure of go
vernment. A short time will discover the
oundation of both. Where are we to look
or tLe ad\ antages which the people have
;ained by the consolidation of the Hate go
. ernments ? Is it to the prosperous fitua
.ion oi our mechanics and manufacturers,
•vho on account oi severe duties on £Ult,
ea, sugar, and other neceifaries of life,
lave been under the necessity of railing
:heirwork* in order to support their fanc
ies. Is it to the merchant, whole business
s bable to be deranged and his calculations
1 ulh ated by the opinion of a Secretary to
lie I reafury ? —Is it to our commerce,
nore than ever embarrafli-d with vexatious
■egulations ? Or, is it to the great body
>f yeomanry, prevented from felling the
jroduce of their farms to foreigners, and
laving an excise man placed in every quar
er of the country, like an overfeeron a ne
r.ro plantation, to prevent the farmer from
naking use oi cne produce of his own labor ?
I he blefled advantages of the government
alone to be found among speculators who
ire living on the fpoilsof an injured and in
tilted people, and among a few needy citi
zens, who enjoy the profits of lucrative
offices. BRUTUS.
* Since the operation of the general govern
nent, several branches of the mechanics andma.
lufa&urcrs, and even the pilots have combined to
aife their wages on their employers.
July 30, 1792.
To the Editor of the National Gazette.
I OBSERVE in your paper of the 21ft
nit. an elliniate favourable to Mr. Jay
in the fGi n; of an extract of a letter from
Slew-York) which is palpably falfe. The
a£l is that it all the votes had been counted,
jovernor Clinton would have had a great
er majority tlr.m he now has, and iflt had
lot been for the corrupt prartices in Otfego,
le \\ ould have prevailed by upwards of 600
'otes, notwithstanding the I2oovaflal votes
u the manor of Renfellaer, and the flagrant
ibules which prevailed in other parts of the
rate. If your readers have any curiolity
to fee this opinion vindicated, I beg leave to
refer them to a piece iigned Veritas, in the
New-1 ork Journal of the 25th instant,
where' they may fee an attempt to support
ihe following estimate.
Mr. Clinton's lofles.
in Richmond and Orange - oo#
In Ontario, Tioga and Clinton - 210
Majority by which he succeeded 10S
618
Mr. Jay's lolfes in Otfego , 4 0 9
In Weftcheller, Renfellaer and Ulster 50
Subftrart 4,50
from 618
r <-.!• . Remn ' ns a majority, 16$
tor, Clinton if all the votes had been count
ed.
vt VERITAS.
" ew ork, 27th July, 173?.SNOW-HILL, Worcrjlcr county, Eap rn i/tore
oj Maryland, July. 20, 1791.
O N the 4th instant, being the fifteenth
anniversary of American Independence, the
iRANKLIN SOCIETY* of this place
met at the court-house at 9 o'clock, A. M.
to celebrate the return of that auspicious
day. 7he society, on this occalion, anxi
ous to promote that spirit of friendlhip and
general intercourse so necessary to locial
happiness, and afluated by a laudable de-
Ijre of communicating that glow of entlui
fiafm,that ardor for liberty,& inspiring those
sentiments of benevolence towards each
other and gratitude to the Divine Beinc.
so congenial to a happy and free people
impell'd by these philanthropic motives,
they departed from their usual privacy, ant
emblematic of the expansion of their feel
ings ou this happy day, opened their door:
to the mass of their fellow citizens.
A refpe&able audience having aflembled
the president announced the intention oj
the meeting, in a fiiort address suitable tt
the occasion, and read the declaration of In
'ependence, and the afl accompanying it
which William Whittington, K("]uire, ;
member of the society, arote and delivered
a very learned, judicious, and patriotic
oration.
The focictv then having proceeded tt
the discussion of a political question, whicf
beingdebated and dec ded agreeably to the
regulations of the institution, the audienci
were addressed in an animated valeditlor)
oration, l>y Mr. John Dcnnifs, another mem
ber of the society.
The society then adjourned at 4 o'clocl;
p. M. to dine, and spend the evening at Mr.
Smith's tavern, where the spirit of friend
(hip, facial mirth, and good humour, so Je
fibly depiited in each countenance, unitec
to heighten the joys of this happy meeting,
After dinner the following toasts were
drank, succeeded by the discharge of car.-
noil after each refpeftively.
1. THE DAY. Maythe memory ofii
be cherished in the bosom of every true
American, and transmitted with applaufc
to the latest pofferity.
2. The President of the United States
May the mild lullre of his declining fui
prove no less glorious than the effulgent*
or his rising, or the tranfceudaiit fplendoi
of his meridian greatness.
3. The Governor and State of Maryland
4. The Congress of the United States
may all party and local views, inconfiften
with the good of our common countrv, bi
forever banilhed from that august aflembiy
5■ The memory of our illustrious coup
tryman, Benjamin Franklin : while we revert
his name, may we emulate his character.
6. The Vice-Prelidcnt of the Unitec
States.
7. The agriculture of the United States :
as it is the njoft ufeful, may it be alway:
considered as the moll honorable occupa
tion.
8. The manufactures of the Unitec
States: may the workshops of America ri
val and excel those of Europe. "
9. The commerce of the United States :
may its extended operations connect 11:
with every part of the habitable globe.
10. The arts and sciences of tjie Unitec
States: may the general influence of liber
ty eftablifli and perpetuate their empire ir
this happy land.
11. The memory of those heroes, whe
sealed with their blood the glorious cause
of liberty.
12. The freedom of elections: may eve
ry freeman have difcermnent enough tc
judge of the merits of legislative candi
date:, ; and spirit enough to relent any at
tempt to influence his free and unbiafl'eci
vote.
13. The heads of departments : inaj
they approve themselves worthy of tilt
confidence repofctl in them by their coun
trymen.
14.. Our firft and bed friend and ally,
the French nation : m?y thefabrick whicf 1
they have reared to Freedom defy their
enemies, and extend its influence through
out the world.
15. Peace and happiness to all the world.
•This Institution originated with a few re
fye*slable citizens of this Village, who from fre
Experience found that in social.and virtu
ous intercourse, the mo ft laudable objc&s were
pursued, and that mutual aid contributed much
to pcrfc&ion in all arts and science*. Contem
tlatinjr and anticipating these advantages, u
was appointed to draw up fucli rules
and regulations as might be necessary to the
good order and interest of this inilitution j and
agreed io take the name of the " Franklin Socie
ty," in honorable memory, and as a tcftimony oj
the grateful refpevi they entertained for the late
venerable American patriot, philosopher, and po
litician, Dodlor BENJAMIN FRANKLIN, and
as a short memento of their aflbciation, adopted
the lollowing motto," Difce et Fac." A.D. 1789.
George Totun, June 2, 1792.
A NUMBER *>t LOTS in every fixation
wl ich may bedefircd in the city of Wash
ington, will be offered for sale, by the Commis
sioners on Monday the Bth day of October next.
One fourth part of the purchase «>oney to be
paid down, the residue in three equal annual pay
ments, with yearly interest on th« whole princi
pal unpaid. JOHN M. GANTT,
•July 25. Clerk tQ the Commiflioners.
PHILADELPHIA,
August 1792.
Information is received, by way of letter, from
Marietta, th.it the Indians have not been trouble
lome in or near that neighbourhood, during the
late spring, and part of the fuuimer season, ex
cept in one or two instances. It is fid that a
council of the savages was in feflion the latter
end ol June, at the Tawwa river, to the number
of 4000 members, for the purpule of regulating
then future proceedings. Two {lags had been
lent 111 to them by Gen. Wilkinfbn, to found
their dispositions.
Two vellels are arrived at Bollon from Cadiz,
which bring European accounts to the 11th of
June. " Preparations for war were making in
Spain, and a general war in Europe was expect
ed. I was alio laid the Spaniards would a£t
against the French. A report was current at
Cadiz, that a battle had h;en fought between the
trench on the One fide, and Prufiian and German
troops 6n the other, in which 14 or 15,000 of
the ircnch were fiain." I'rom other informa
tion. to the 7th of June, fiom places much near
er the luppoled Icenc of a6lion than Cadiz,
there is the bell reason to believe that t'-e above
could have been only the exaggerated rumours
of the tepulfe at Tournay and Mons.
Letters and public papers from CharleHon, to
July 19, lay nothing of the uncommon dilcafcs
that have been reported to prevail in that city
but that 011 the contrary it continued health) as
ulunl at that time of the year.
The gtneial aflembly of the (late of Rhode-
I{land are called by a Ipecial wairant lioin the
governor,to meet,at Newport, the second Wed
ncfilay in Augull inllant.
On the 14th of July, in the City-Hall at
Charleston, a discourse was delivered by Mr.
I.uby to a large number of gentlemen who had
allembled to celebrate the anniverfaty of the
French revolution. It is remarkable, that the
whole of this difcourle, except three or four
and twenty of the iiift lines, is to be found in
Boulanger's Origine duDfpotifmc,printed at Am
flerdain, 1776.
The,following paragraph is from a New-
Hampshire paper, of July 15. "A large
number of the electors of the upper coun
ties of this state are determined upon their
choice of representatives in Congrels. Con
ceiving that the following gentlemen, from
their known abilities and integrity, are ca
pable of doing high honour to the Hate, we
folicitall dalles of our brother freemen, to
unite in giving them their fuffrages—viz.—
the Hon. James Sheafc, ALirf Fojler, John Shel
burne, and William Page, Efquires.—lt is fol
ly for us to be duped any longer by the ar
tifice of a number of people who reside in
the lower counties of this state. The idea
they have long held up of the county of
Cheshire, See. being destitute of a man pof
fefllng abilities adequate to those which
■iught to accompany a Congreflional Mem
ber into that honourable lioufe, is, in every
respect, FALSE. And, to convince the
world thereof, the last mentioned gentle
mrffi is intended for our choice —whom, we
doubt not, when chosen, will demonstrate
not only the falfity of the idea, but alio the
BASENESS of its intended ejfe&s."
A Vermont paper, printed at Windsor
in that state relates, that " the wife of
Mr. Alhbel Webb, of the town of Bradford
was, on the 12th of July delivered of a
child the 1110 ft Angular ai:d extraordinary
of any, perhaps ever known 111 tlii; part of
the world. It had two <liltin£t head:, four
arms, one body, and four legs. The child
was Hill-born, and the mother is in a fa.
vourable (ituation as to her health."
The Rev. S.union Occtim, a noted In
dian preacher at Stockbridge, near Oneida
in the llate of New-York, diedon or about
the 14th of July. In the woods while search
ing for timber, in company with a friend.
He had been previouflv ill, but was tempt,
ed to make this c.tciirfion upon a supposi
tion that he was getting better. He was
buried on the 15th. His funeral lermon
was preached by the Indian mitlionary,
K irkland, frem Matt. 24, verse 44. Up
wards ofthrep hundred Indians, from dif.
rerent tribes, attended his funeral.
The Rev. Mr. Thayer, of BoHon, has
declined any further controversy with the
eastern Sachem, J. f<ar(Hner,Kfi|. unless in
future he, Gardiner, fubferibes what he
writes with his real name. Mr. Thayer
alferts that Mr. Gardiner disbelieves all
miracles: "but (queries he) is there not
something miraculous in his being ltruck
with the palsy in his right-hand, at the very
time he was writing all his blasphemies a
gainst God and his faints? —If he will be
lieve, perhaps he may be made whole."
Extra'l of a Utter from the city of IVa/fiingtCii,
dated.the 22d July 1792.
" The commiflioners attended on the Presi
dent the 16th inflant. About 26 plans tor the
Capitol and President's houte were presented—
viz.—from Malfachufetts, New-York, Peilnfyl
vania, Maryland, Virginia and South-Carolina.
Several of the artills were prelent. A prefer
ence was given to a plan of :..0 President's house
made out by Mr. James Hoben, of Charleston,
South-Carolina. Theie were others of consi
derable merit. The house will be about 170 by
90 or 100 feet. Thi outside walls piohably of
lice Hone. Mr. Hohen brought refpefta
ble recommendations of hi* character and expe
rience, had a tegular education in the fludy of
architecture, and poirdfes honorable tcftimonials
of his success in some competitions of (kill in that
line. He is employed by the commdfioncrs to
superintend the execution of bis plan, and such
other matters as may be placed under him.
The work for the foundation of the Prefident'i
house was entered 0.1 the next day, and the ne
celiary materials arc collcfted and collecting at
the spot.
No choice was made out of the plans for a
Capitol. It is expetted this will take place in
next mouth."
" On Thursday last (July 26) fays a New-
Vork paper) Capt. M'Oougalt arrived at
this port, in 36 days from Havre-de-Grace.
We can learn but few particulars by this
vefTel—l courier, however, had arrived
from theßrabantine country, five days be
ford (he failed, vi.'.. on the 20th June, who
informed, that no action had happened
lincethofeofMons and Valenciennes ; that
the armies were not far from each other ;
the anny in general were deploring the de
lulion which occalioned Dillon's fate, and
that discipline was an object much fought
after,and delired by the patriotic loldiery. "
11 is the artfulpolicy of certain designing
chara&ers (jSys a correspondent) to propa
gate an opinion, that the great body of the
people may at this time lie resolved into 0.
clatles, the federal (an immense majority)
and the anti-ftderel, a trifling number of fac
tious and difconteiued persons. The fe
deral'(according to them) are those "who
indiscriminately approve of every measure
of government, as imftiaculate and iuft, and
are fully fatisfied with the prcfent iituatior
of things. The anti-federal are those whe
disapprove of fjute of its measures, ant
thereby, and therefore, are plotting the over
throw of the government, and ought to be
discouraged from publifiiirig their sedition:
opinions." This is taking matters upon 1
wrong ground. The people are, in fact
only republican and anti-republican. The re
publicans are those who conlider the agn
-jdtural interest and the equal rights of mar
as the only true and solid natural basis of tlx
government of the U. States, and are tor ex
prelling themselves freely with regard to fuel
aits or proceedings of government as appeal
to them partial or unjust, and endeavoring
areform. The anti-republicans (few it i:
to be hoped in number) are those win
would support the government upon ar
irtificial balls, upon the influence of exor
bitant wealth, upon speculation, upon ma
nufactures, and upon any interest, excep
the agricultural. It is amazing, with eve
ry discouragement from the conftitntion
how rapidly the monied influence has beet;
gaining ground for several years palt—tc
uch a tiegree, and such have been its ma
loeuvres, that were it not for the abolifh
inent of entails, and two or three other
tlifqualifying circumstances, there is little
doubt, that within ten years it would efta
jlidi itfelf into a powerful hereditary aris
tocracy, if not something worse- If Ame
rican liberty is durable, it muff be the vir
tues and vigilance of the yeomanry, in op
jolltion to pampered Croesus's, that will
ireferve the sacred flame.
On Sunday last (fays the Salem paper ol
July 24) Capt. Jonathan Lambert arrived
liere from the Cape of Good Hope. The
British frigate jfcolus, which failed from
Calcutta about the 20th of February with
lifpatehes from England, touched at the
Cape about the 20th of April. The ac
rounts by this frigate were, that Lord
Cornwallis's army liad taken several of the
jut pods of Seringapatam, Tippoo Saib'j
rapital; that the arnly svas in high spirits,
ind that there was not the least doubt that
Jeririgapatam would soon fall ; but that it
lad not been taken when the frigate failed.
Tippoo, under this apprehenlion, had with
irawn himfelf, with many of hit principal
>eople, and much treasure, from the place
.0 oue of liis hilt forts.
At a large meeting of the citizens of the
icy of Philadelphia, held at the ltate-houfe,
in Monday the 30th day of July, 1792,
purfuantto notice given in the nevvfpapers,
I he Honorable THOMAS M'KKaN, Esq.
(ihief Justice, in the Chair ;
After reading over and amending the
minutes of a former meeting, they resolv
ed, That a committee of correspondence,
confiding of seven, be appointed to collefl
information of the sense of the people in
different parts of the state, refpeftiilg the
characters proper to be nominated a
Members of Congress, and Ele&ors of
President and Vice-Preiident, and to sub
mit the fame to the consideration and
choice of the Citizens at a general meet
ing---which was carried in tiie affirmative.
And the Honorable Thomas M'Kean, Rfq.
Dr. James Hutchinfon, Alexander I. Dal
las, the Honorable James Wilfo.n, John
Barclay, Hilary Baker, and Jared Inger-
I'ol, Esquires, were accordingly appointed.
In our last and present number is adver
tised for sale Mr. Barlow's " Advice to the
Privileged Order ,in the several States ol
Europe," &c. The following character of
this book, from the New-York Daily Ad
vertiser, precludes the necessity of our fay
ing any thing on the merits of a work,
which requires only to be read to be uni
verfall v clleemed.
" Barlow's publication, entitled, " Ad
vice to the privileged orders in the several Jlates oj
Europe," will make a conspicuous figure
among the molt celebrated performances 0
flic present, or perhaps any other age. It
exhibits' that generous glow of feniibility
towards the human race, which must warm
and invigorate tlis feelings of every reader.
wW has any pretentions to a fufceptiMc
heart With relpeit to the beauties ot'
this work, they Itrike the eye forcibly at
every turn. Its defects, fliould there be
any, will almost elude discovery ; because,
like the spots on the fun, they are over
whelmed by the effulgence with which they
are surrounded.
Viewed as a philosophic treatise, this
work embraces thole ideas which the molt
pe.rfeib reason must approve. It elevates
the mind above those prejudices which are.
the effect of a falfe education ; and illus
trates an important truth, that the vice»
and miseries, which overspread the earth,
are not to be ascribed to the inherent pro
pensities of human nature, lo much as to
faults and ticfectS in those artificial institu
tions, which have existed under an unna
tural and perverse ltate of society. Re
store man to the proper destiny of his na
ture, and it will annihilate the fuurces from
which have flowed those crimes and mis
fortunes, which hitherto have been deem
ed inseparable froni human beings. Na
ture has bee,n perverted in inoft of the so
cieties that were ever formed. When
ever we behold an individual or a nation,
committing evil, and prefled by adversity,
\vc iliould look for the cause among the
faults of education or government. These
points are fully illustrated in the pamphlet
under contemplation.
In examining this work as a piece of fine
composition, we find an energy and ele
gance that cannot be surpassed, nor too
much admired. The ityle, it lrmft be con
fefled, is bold and figurative ; but-jheim i
gery is so natural and well chosen, that we
are charmed, in every inltance, where the
exprellion rises above simplicity. In short,
we here find the ardour of eloquence unit
ed with the precilion of philosophy. This
forms a blend that makes the performance
at once fafcinating and inftruftive.
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Fkeneau,
IT is insinuated in the " National Ga
zette" ot last Saturday, that " by under
mining another who was in possession of
t!ie employ," the fubferiber obtained the
work which he has executed for the Go
vernment. —This can refer only to prfnt
ing the Journals of the Senate of the United
States. With some persons it may be
fufricient for me to fay, the charge is
wholly unfounded. Those who wills for
further fatisfaition, by calling on me, may
be convinced that the insinuation is foine
thing more than a simple untruth.
With refpeft to the principles and senti
ments propagated by the Gazette of the
United States, the Editor of thai paper is
willing to abide by the general opin on of
the public—That public, whose essential
rcpuUicun\nteve{\ he hasfeduloufly attempt
ed to promote for twenty years palt— arcl
to which he is now under additional and
more forcible obligations of attachment;
having as much at ltake, as an individual,
as the average of his fellow citizens, the
freedom and happiness of a numerous fa
mily of children.
JOHN FENNO.
Philad. July 30, 1792.
METRORO I.OGK.AL OBSERVATIONS,
ULY, 1702.
D. //, Bar. Ther. Wind. Wrath.
Wcdmfday, 25. Q 30. o 61 N. W. fair '
9 SO. i 73 do. Cloudy.
Thursday, 26. ( 30. 2 61 N. " j fair.
5 30. 25 82 do. 1 do.
Friday,. 27. ( 30. 2 65 S. W. fair.
2 ,10. 15 83 do- Cloudy.
Saturday, 28. 6 30. 05 70 N. E. Cloudy.
2 30. 1 73 do. Rain.
'lunday, 29. 6 30. o 64 N. f.. Rain.
2 30. 04 68 do, [ do.
Monday, 30. 6 30. 0 <■•'< N. Cloudy.
2 30. 0 71 N, Mifiy.
Tucfday, 31. 6 ;o. o 64 j.s.w fair.~~
_ 2 29.95- 82 do. I do/
Uniety Jv tjiablijbing uj.J'ul Manujatmrn,
NOTICE is hereby given to the holders of
Sock in the ftid society, that the following
irrangernent has been made by the Deputy Go
■ crnoi and Directors thereof, by a resolution of
he eighteenth day of May, 1792.
The second instalment sol the payment of fharci
n the flock of this society, may be made in the
followiug manner, vii.
The amount of the said fecord inflalment, be
ing ao 13-100 dollars each (hare, may be paid in
:hree payments, on condition that tbe lawful in
terell of 7 per cent, per annum, be calculated
and paid with each proportionate part of the said
payment, that is to fay, on or before the thir
ttentli day of August next, the sum of 6 71-100,
with the addition of 12 cents, being the interest
of one month on 20 13-100 dollars—on or be
fore the 13th of September next, the sum of 6
71-103 (1 illars, with the addition of 8 cents, be
ing tile interest for one month on 13 42-100 dol
lars—and on or befote the 13th of October next,
h: sum o 6 71-100 dollars, with the addition of
4 tents, being the interest on the fume for one
munth. The said payments are to be made at the
In] o-ving places, viz. In the city of Philadelphia,
at the bank of the United States—at Ntw-Bruuf
wick, in Netv.Jerl'ey, to John Bayard, or J.jhn
Veillon, Efqts—and in the city of New-Yoric, ac
he bank ot New-Yoik, or either of the said
'laces, which may be molt convenient to the
[bock holders.
By otdcr of the direction,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerk,
July 24. vs.AUTHENTIC.
t SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
. UNITED STATES.
At trie firft Seflion,begun and held at the city ol
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania,
on Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT fubplementary to the Atl making Pro
vision for the Debt of the United States.
BE it enabled by the Senate and Hovfe of Re
prefentativts of the United States of America,
in Conorfs aj/emblcd, That the term for receiving
on loan that part of the domeitic debt ol the
United States, which hath not been fubferibed
pursuant to the terms proposed in the ast, inti
tuleJ, l< An ast making pro.si si on for the debt ol
the United States,"/hall be, and it is hereby ex
tended, on the fame terms, as in and by the said
ast is provided, to the firft day of March next j
and b )okk for receiving such farther fubferiptions,
ill all be opened at the treasury of the United
States, and by the commillioners of loans, in each
of the laid states, on the firft day of June next,
which fliall continue open until the said firft da)
of March next inclofively ; for which porpofe, the
laid commissioners, refptftivdy, are hcipby invert
ed with the like powers, and required to perform
the like duties, as in and by tlli faia act is di
iefted.
And be it further en iflcd, That such of the
creditors of the United States, as have not fub
feribed and (hall not luofcribe to the said loan,
ihail nevertheless receive a rate per centum on the
amount of so much of their refpeftive demands,
as well for interest as principal, as, on or before
the filft day of March, (hail be ieg'ftered, con
formably to the directions of the faia ast, as (hal!
be equal to the interert payable to the iublcribin*;
creditors, which lhall be payable at the famo
times and places, and by the fame peifons, as in
and by the laid ast is directed.
And be it further enattcd, That the term for
receiving upon Joan that part of the debts ol the
refpeftive states, which hath not been lubferibed
pursuant to the terms proposed lit the ast afore
faid, fliall be, and it is hereby enlarged on the
lame terms, as in and by the said ast is piovidedj
until the firft day of March one thouland seven
hundred and ninety three inclufivcly ; tor which
purpose, books (hall be opened at the treasury ol
the Unitei States, and by the commifiioneis ol
loans in each of the said states, on the rirft day of
June next, which fliall continue open until the
firft day of March, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-three inclufivcly ; lor which purpoles
the said comm'liioners are heteby inverted with
the like powers, and required to perform the like
duties, as, in and by the said ast, is directed.
P rcvided al-ways, and be it further enacted., I hat
the commifiioner of loans for North-Carolina
/hall not be allowed to receive any certificate il
fued by Patrick Travers, commifiioner of Cum
berland county, or by the commifiioners of army
accounts at Warrenton.
And whereas the United States are indebted to
certain foreign officers, on account of pay and Cer
vices during the late war, the interest whereof,
pursuant to the certificates granted to the said of
ficers by virtue of a refolulion of the United
Slates in Congrtfs afl'cmbled, is payable at the
house of Grand, banker, at
Paris, and it is expedient to discharge the fame j
Le it therefore enaftcdy That the President of the
United Statts be, and he hereby is authorized to
cause to be the principal and interert of
the said debt, out of any of the monies, which
have been or fliall be obtained on loan, in virtue
of the ast aforcfaid, and which (hall not benecef
fary ultimately to fulfil the purpofesfor which the
said monies are, in and by the said ast, authoriz
ed to be borrowed.
And be it further enaficd, That the President
of the Senate, the Chief Tuitice, the Secretary ol
State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the At
torney General, for the time being, lhall be corn
miflioners, who, or any three of whom, a:e here
by authorized, with the approbation of the Presi
dent of the United States, to purchase the debt of
the United States, at its market price, if not ex
ceeding the par or true value thereof ; for which
puichafe the interest on so much of the public
debt, as has already been, or may hereafter be
purchased for the United States, or as (hall be paid
into the treasury, and so much of the monies ap
propriated for the payment of the interest on the
foreign and domestic debt, as fliall exceed what
may be fufiicient for the payment of such interert
to the creditors of the United States, (hall be and
aiC heteby appropriated. And it fliall be thedu
ty of the said commi/lioners to lender to the legif
lature, within two months after the commence
ment of the firft fellion thereof in every year, a
full and precise account of all such put chafes
made, and public debt redeemed, in pursuance ol
this act.
And whereas it is expedient to ertablifh a fund
for the gradual reduction of the public debt - t £i
it further enafied, That the interest on so mucl;
of'the debt of the United States, as has been 01
lhall be purchased or redeemed for or by the Unit
ed States, or as (hall be paid into the treafurj
thereof in fatisfaftion of any debt or demand, and
the surplus of any sum or sums appropriated sot
the payment of the interest upon the said debt,
which lhall remain after paying such interertj
fliall be, and hereby arc appropriated and pledg
ed fifmly and inviolably for and to the purchase
and redemption of the said debt, to be applied
under the direction of the President of the Senate,
the Chief Justice, the Secretary of State, the Se
cretary of the Treasury and rue Attorney Gen
eral for the time being, or any three of them,
with the approbation of the President of the Unit
ed States, for the time beingin manner following,
that is to fay : First, to the purchase of the sever
al species of stock conllituting the debt of the
United States, at their refpeftive market prices,
not exceeding the par or true value thereof, and,
as nearly as may be, in equal proportions, until
the annual amount of the laid funds, together
with any other provisions which may be made by
law, lhall be equal to two per ccntum of (he
Ahc/.e amount of the outstanding funded stock
be a i Wig a present interest of fix per centnm :
Thenceforth, Secondly, to the redemption of the
laid la ft mentiortcd llock, according to the right
;ur that purpose reserved to the United Stales,
until the whole amount thereof fliall have been
redeemed : And laltly, after such redemption, to
;he puichafe, at it* market price, of any other
h.( k confiUing of the debt of the United States,
khich may then remain unredeemed : and such
parchafe, as far as the fund fliall at any time
;xtend, (hall be made within thirty days next af
:er each day, on which a quarterly payment of in
ereft on the debt of the United States, fliall be
:ome due, and fliall be made by a known agentj
:o be named by the said commifiioners.
And be it further enathd, That all future pur
jhafes of public debt on account of the United
States, shall be made at the lowed price, at which
he fame can be obtained by open purchase, or b)
ecemng felled propolals, to be opened in the pre
ence of the commifiioners, or persons authurizec
»y them to make purchales, and the peifons mak
ng such propolals.
And be Itfuribc enafied, That quarter yearlj
iccounts of the application of the laid fund ftul
>e rendered for settlement, as other public ac
ounts, accompanied with returns of the sums oi
he said debt, which fliall have been from time tc
ime purchased or redeemed ; and full and exad
(♦port of the proceedings of the laid commiflion
rs, including a llatement of the disbursements :
vhich fliall have bceu made, and of the fumi
vhich fliall have been purchased or redeemed UO'
ler their direction, and fpecifying dates, prices,
larties, and places, fliall be laid before Congress,
vithin the firft fourteen days of each fefiion which
nay ensue the present, dining the execution oJ
he laid trust.
Approved by the Pr es i dent, May 3th, 1792
dn ACT t» compenjate the feryices of the late Co.
louei George Cibfon.
gE it enacted by the Senate and lloufe of Rrprc
fentatmes of the United States of Atncrica t i/.
Congress That there be allowed and paij
o the cxreutors or administrators of che late
oloncl George Gibfon or to their attorney or at
omics legally appointed and authorized to receivc
he fame for the use and benefit of his heirs, the
um of one thousand dollars for extraordinary fcr
rices by him lendered to the United States dur
ng the year one thousand seven hundred and fe
renty-fix.
Approved by the President, May Sth, 1792.
RESOLVED, by the Senate and Houje of Re
prrfentatives of the United States of America,
n Congrejs ajjembled, That the Secretary of the
trtafuiy cause to be provided, for the use of the
everal collectors in the United States, printed
leatances, on the back wherof fliall be a printed
iccount of the methods, which have been found tc
tnfwcr for obtaining frcfli, from falc water, and
>f conftruiting extempore stills, of such implc
•fnts, -as are generally on board of every velfelj
with a xecommendation, in all cases, where the\
hall have occasion to retort to this expedient foi
jbtaining water, to publish the result of their tri
ll in some gazette, on their return to the United
kites, or to communicate it for publication, tc
he ofhee of the Secretary of State, in order thai
>thers may, by their fucccfs, be encouraged :c
nakc flmilar trials, ana be benefited by any im
irovements or new ideas, which may occur tc
hem irt practice.
Approved by the President, May Sth, 1792"
[The foregoing concludes all the Laws pajjed ai
he lafi Jeffior. of Ccngrrfs*]
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale at the Printing-Office,
No. 201, Market-Street,
ind at Thomas Dobfon's Book-Store ir
Second-Street,
Price Three-Eighths of a Dollar,
ADVICE
TO THE
PRIVILEGED ORDERS,
in the
SEVERAL STATES of EUROPE,
Resulting from the necefllty and pro
priety of a General Revolution in
the Principle of Government,
By Joel Barlow, Esquire.
JUST PUBLISHED, ~~
And for sale by the Printer,
f:)HN M'Culloch, at No, i. North Third-
S:reet, and by molt of the Book-
Sellers in this city,
(Price 3/9)
MODERN CHIVALRY:
Containing the
Adventures of Capt. John Farrago.
and
Teague O'Regan,
his Servant.
VOLUME 11.
By H. H. BRACKENRIDGE.
Quicijuid agur.l Homines, nojlri, Farrago libtlli.
Juvenal.
TO BE LET,
A DWELLING HOUSE, containing
three rooms, with a kitchen,
and garret, in North Sixth-llreet. To be
let lor live months, upon very reasonable
terms, and when that time is expired may
be had from the landlord.—Apply to Mr.
Bafcher ot No. 96, North. Eteventh-ftreet.
J« ! y 25, 3 t,
To be publijhcd by Subscription,
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Old ConypvcJ,), ■
From their firfl Meeting in September i 774j
to their final diflolutioii in March 1789,
COMPRISING at full length, every impor
tant resolution, order, address, declaration,
&c. contained in the thirteen volumes of their
journals —a concise summary of the less interest
ing parts, —an alphabetical lift of appointments,
promotions and resignations—-a collective viewin
the public expenditures, &c. &c. —ih« whole in
tenev'd to serve as a tatista&ory substitute tor the
original journals, which are now out of print, and
of which the entire lubftance, un incumbered with
official formalities and repetitions, will here be
given in about one fourth of their present bulk,
accompanied with one complete general Index
To which will be added, a copious and valuable
collection of original
ilfdate £Baji
from the Records and Files of Congress,
Contain ing (either verbatim,or in abftraft,
as the cales may severally require) such interest
ing pieces referred to in the journals, as may with
propriety be permitted to be made public, viz.
Letters from the different officers employed in
the public lervice during the late war—intercept
ed letters of the enemy—communications from
governors, state legillatures, conventions, and
committees—difpatchcs from agents and com
millioners—inftruftions —- reports of committees
of Congress 5 and various other authentic docu
ments, tending to throw a light on the important
events, to which America owa her present inde
pendence. .
In the course of the work, will be introduced,
in their proper places, such parts of the
oarnaid }
as no logger require secrecy.
As foou as 500 copies are fubferibed for, the
work will be put to press, to be delivered to sub
scribers, in numbers of 304 o&avo pages each, at
One Dol la r, in blue boards. The Sub•
fcriptlon money will not be required for the firfl
Ijfafmber, until the publication is begun \ and
on the delivery of each number, half a dollar will
be expected in advance for the succeeding one.
To non-fubferibers, the price will be railed.
Subscriptions will be received by the prin
cipal booklellers throughout the Union, and by
lie Editor.* JOHN CAREY. '
No. 24, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
TO THE PUBLIC,
THE Subscriber has it in contemplation soon
to decline his present business—and having on
tUfld a considerable quantity of fuperfine second
ana elastic cloths, together with a variety of other
articles in his way, proposes to fell them at the
following reduced pees, VIZ.
Belt Superfine navy blue 34^.
Ditto, ditto. Scarlet 36/,
Common colours luperfine 32/.
Elastic stripes 9/.
London buff and white caflimers ic/6.
Ditto, coloured do. 1 $f.
Yorkshire do. do. 13/6.
Striped toilenets 34f.
Rattinets y'.
Striped Nankeens : 3/4.
A variety otwailicoat shapes proportionably low
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London best silk hose, from 22/6 to 24/.
The above goods have been mostly imported frorr
one of the firft mercantile houles in London, anc
are of an equal quality oany imported intoArne
tica j they will be fold per piece or smaller quantity
as may best luit the purchasers , by the publics
most humble servant, JOHN SHEPHERD.
person diipofed to purchase the wholi
)f the above stock, may also have on realonable
:erms his present dwelling house together with
:he store, a more eligible lituation for business in
:he tailor's line is not to be found in this city.
The advantage of this business being so well efta-
by the proprietor will bs very grat, ani
fom well known fads, needs no comment.
A lease of fix years may be had of the house.
May i4 t aaw.tf.
PROPOSALS
For Printing by Subscription,
PUBLIC REPORTS
from T H I
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMETS
OF THE
Government of the United States
CONGRESS,
.ommenang with the present Government, and end
with the clofc of the Srfjion of May 1792.
1 HIS work is intended to be printed in on;
/olumc o£lavo, eflimated to contain between five
ind fix hundred and will be delivered tc
fubferibers in boards at One Dollar and a half.
A complete collection of the Reports into a
:or.venient and portable volume has been fug
defied to the publilliers by several Members o
Congress and other gentlemen, and they are now
determined to proceed 011 with the work, provi
ded a competent number of fubl'cribcft appeal
;o patronize the undertaking.
Subscriptions are received by CHILDS anc
SWAINK, the publilliers, No. 209, Market
street, Philadelphia, and by the principal Book
fellers in the United States. May 2.1.
*,* Three handfomt Editions vfthe Law.
of the United s tales for /'ale at this office
(No. 209 Market flreet) in folio and otla
- I>o. either full or half bound—N.B. Tht
La-.us of the laji SeJJion, in o9avo only, may
be hadfeparote, price tbre: eighths of a dollar.
BOOKS,
Printed and fcld by
MATHEW CAREY,
No. üB, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
i I. American Museum, from its commencement
in January 1787, to December 1791, in ten i/ols.
Price, neatly bound and lettered, fix teen dollars.
This work, Hi bub ii now conducted on an im
proved plan, containing tie Left pieces publifhedfor
and aga'tnH the proceedings of government, will be
found to contain at leaji as great a variety of poli
tical, agricultural, andmijcellaneous rjjays, as any
ever publijhed in America, Perhaps in no one work
art so many valuable documents refpcEling the bifio
ry of this country , collected together. His excel
lency the Prejident of the United States, has de
clared of it, that ii a more ufeful literary plan
has never been undertaken in America, nor one
nore deserving of public encouragement. ** The
fubfeription is two dollars and a half per anmm.
Gentlemen in the country who wif'? to be supplied
with this work, are requeficd to give commij/ion to
friends in the city to fubjcribe jor and receive it.
2. Ladies* Pocket Library— containing :—Mifs
More's Efj'ays \ Gregory's Legacy ; Lady Pen
nington's advice ; Marchioness of Lambert's ad
vice 5 Swift's letter to a newly married lady j
Mrs. Cbapcne on command of temper j More"s fa
bles for the ladies Price 6/6.
3. Smith's History of New- York, from its fir!
settlement to the year 1732. To which is
a dejeription of the country, with a Jhort account
of the inhabitants, their religious and political flatc,
and the constitution of the courts of jujlice—Price
a dollar and a quarter.
4. Element* of Moral Scicnce, by James Beat
iie, 1.1.d. profefjor of moralpbilojopby and logic
n the Marijcbal College, Aberdeen—Price three
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Crit'ual Re
viewers (vol. 69. p. 628) Jay : " V/e have Jecn
nothing on thrfe fubjefls more plain, more perfpicu
us, or more genera ly ufeful
5. Beauties of Poetry, Britijh and American,
containing [elf El productions cf the moj} eminent Bri
tijh and American poets, Price four fifths of a dol.
b. Blair'* Sermons, containing the whole of the
three volumes of the British edition, in two. Price
two dollars.
7. Neckar's Treatise on the importance of reli
gious opinions. Price four fifths of a dollar.
3. Examination of ibe objervations of Lord Shef
field's on American Commerce. Price t on very fine
paper y five eighths cf a dollar.
9. The Conjlitutions of the Jeveral United States,
wtth the federal Confiitution, ©V. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
10 M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition in
12 mo. Price three eighths of a dollar %
11. American Jelt Book, in two parts, with
two very neat engravings. Price bound, three
fifths of a dollar.
12. Garden of the Soul, by Bifloop Cha\enor*
Price, bound plain, ba 'f a dollar, in calf and let
tred three quarters of a dollar, plain H -2dol t
13. Toe Douay Tranjlation of the vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto. Price, elegantly bound and lettered,
' 50/2---plain, fix dollars.
Said Carey has for sale, a large assortment of
books, European as well as American editions,
which he will dispose of on the moj} reasonable terms,
Country gentlemen, who favor him with commands,
may depend upon being Jupplied in the mofi fatisfac
tory manner. A liberal allowance to ftnh as pur
chase quantities for public libraries, or to fell again.
May 17. 6m. la.w.
NEW-YORK & ! Hi L ADELPHI A STAGES
Via Bor dent on and Burlington,
And SHREWSBURY & PHILADELPHIA
STACK,
V\a Lordtnto 1.
THE proprietors of the New-York and Phi
ladelphia land and water Stages beg leave to
mention, that for the better accommodation of
) patfengers, they have thought proper to remove
I the different packet boats from their former stand,
. at the Crooked Billet wharf, to the wharf or dock
/ immediately next below Arch-street, from whence,
s on the firft day of July next, and afterward*, a
convenient packet-boar will ltart for New-York,
; as usual, on every Sunday, Tucfday, V/ednefday
; and laur.'day, and return on every Tuesday,
■, Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The pafTage to
i be m u de either by the way of Bordenton or Bur
. lington,each place to be taken alternately. Fare
. for paflengers from Philadelphia to New-York
15s.— For Goods pr. cwt. 6.
VAN EMBURGH Sc M'KEAN,
DAVID WiLLi AMSON,
Proprietors of the line of Ntw-Yoik and Phi
ladelphia Stages, by ;hc route of Buidentoa.
JAC Oii MYERS,
AMOS HUTCHIN,
NICHOLAS SCHEN'K,
Proprietors of the line of N. York and Phila
delphia Stages, by thj route of Burlington.
1 he ShrewiWy Stage will leave Philadelphia
in the months of July and SeptemUr, on every
Sunday and Wcdnefdjy, and return on every
1 uefday and Friday. J n the moath of Augult',
it will leive Philadelphia on every Sunday and;
riiurfday, and return on every Tuesday and Sa
curday.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
Daniel lot,
• Proprietor- cf the Shrewibury and Philad. Stage, m
Bordentcwn, 'June 25, 1792.
J lor freight or pafTage apply to ;hc matters on
ocard, or to M'KEAN & VAN EMBURGH,
* at their store on laid wharf, immediately next be
low Arch-Street j by whom orders for the purchaf§
oj all kinds of grain, fiaves, or other country pro*
y ciuce, are punctually art ended to.
For freight or paffrga to Lamberton or Tren
r ton, alto apply as above. Jaw c
Philadelphia, June 27.
d * —
*** F'or fait at this Office, Sermons by
the Rev'd Dr. William Linn, of N. York
Price 5/7 1-2.
5 ' ' ■■
C PRINTED BY
- CHIiDS and S W A I N E,
■\ AT THEIR OFFICE NO. 209, HIGH-STKEJLT
;j ;.iiAR FIFTH-streit,
PMJt ADIJLfHIA#