Vol. I.
READ IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ON MONDAY LAST.
Treasury Department, January 23, 1792.
.IjiHAVE the honor to fend herewith a Report, pursuant to the order
of the House of Representatives of the 19 th injiant, and to be with perfect
respect, Sir, , ,
Your mo ft obedient and humble ftrvdTit,
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
The Speaker of the House of Rcprefentatives.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to the order ©f the House of Rc
prefentatives of the lqth inft. refpeftfully makes the following
r REPORT.
AT the close of the year 1790, there was a considerable furpius of revenue
bevond the objects of expenditure which had required a provihon to thai
period ; 'which furpius, by an ast of the 12th of August, in that year, was appro
priated to the reduction of the public debt.
The statement (A) herewith submitted, will shew, in one view, all the iums,
which according to the establishments heretofore made, and corresponding ap
propriations, have required and will require to be defrayed, from the beginning
of the year 1 791, to the end of the year 1792, amounting together to ieven mil
lions and eighty-two thousand one hundred and ninety-seven dollars, anu le
venty-four cents. in.rti.i- -..u
The statement (B) will alio (hew, in one view, the net produtt of all the pub
lic revenues for the fame period, according to the best calculation and estimate
■which can now be formed of it, amounting to seven millions and twenty-nine
thousand seven hundred and fifty-five dollars, and twenty-fix cents.
The statement (C) exhibits a summary of the total annual expenditure of the
United States, in conformity to existing establishments, amounting to three mil
lions fix hundred and eighty-eight thousand and forty-three dollars, fifty cents.
The statement (B) includes a view of the probable produtt during the yeai
1792, of the exiftingirevenues of the United Statas, amounting to three million.
feveu hundred thousand dollars. .
From these statements will result substantially the information which is deli
red by the House of Rcprefentatives, as far as it is now in the power ot the Se
eretary to give it.
One or two matters however, may be proper to be aaded, with a view to grea t
er accuracy. , .
There are certain instances, in which the efhmates for appropriations have
exceeded and will exceed the (ums actually expended. Hence,, the apparent
cess of the expenditure as exhibited in the statement (A) beyond the produtt o
the revenue, as shewn in the statement (B) will probably not be fountl real. Bu
the amount of these furplufles, or over-estimates, is not stated, because it is not
and in some cases, cannot now be ascertained, and it is likely to be very conh
derable ; and because also if it should do more than counter-balance the excel
alluded to, it will be fafeft tofct off the furpius against those contingent demand;
which from time to time occur.
No deduction has been made from the annual interest, on account of the eleb
purchased. This has proceeded from a supposition that it will be deemed expe
client by the legislature, to appropriate inviolably the interest of any part of thi
debt which shall be at any time extinguifhe?d, towards the exunttioa of the re
mainder. This point will be more particulariyfubmitted in a report on thi
fubjeft of the public debt.
All which is humbly submitted.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, Secretary of the Treasury.
Treafu-ry Department, Jan. 23d, 1 792.
"W
STATEMENT of EXPENDITURES, made and to be made, pursuant to appropri
ations heretofore made, in conjormity to the exijiing ejtabtifliinents «/ the United States
from the beginning of tkeyear 1791 to the end of the year 1792, viz. Dots. Cts
AMOUNT of monies appropriated by an attof the 1 ith of Febru
ary, 179 1 ; making appropriations for the support of government
during the year 1791, and for other purposes, . 740,53261
Sum appropriated by an ast of the 3d of March, 1791, towards ef
feftmg a recognition of the treaty with the emperor of Morocco, 20,000
Sum appropriated by an a£l of the fame date, for railing another re
giment, and making a further provision for the protection of the
Irontiers, ... . 312,686 2c
Amount of monies appropriated by an ast of the 23d of Dcccmbcr
laftpaft, making provision, among other things, for the support
of government, for the year 1792, . . 1,059,22 a 8:
Sum to be advanced pursuant to the ast making provision for defray
in<nhe intercourse between the United States and foreign nations, 40,000
13
2,172,141 6l
Amount of one year's interest on the public debt, fo
reign and domestic, during the year 1791,* 2,060,861 40
Amount of one year's interest on the public debt, fo
reign 2nd domestic (including that of the .relpec
tive ftatcs assumed) during the year 1792, 2,849,194 73
4:9 1 0J056 1J
Total expenditures to the end of the year 1792, Dollars 7.082,197 74
Treasury Department, Jdnuary 23, 1792.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, Secretary rf the Treasury.
(B)
ESTIMATE of the nett product of the PUBLIC REVENUES, during the year.
1791 and 1792.
Import Duties for 179 1. Dots. Cts.
QUARTER ending the 31ft March f 314,881 11
Quarter ending the 30th of June . . (A) ■<[ 1 >345>3°3 4<;
Quarter ending the 30th of September . . 919,570 66
Quarter endisg the 31ft of December . (B) 6oo ; ooo
By PHILIP FRENEAU
THURSDAY, January 26, 179 s -
Total nett products for 1791, of imports - • f 3,179,755
Duties on homemade fpirits,'from the Ift of July to the <
December L S; °
Total nett revenue, 1791 * • 3,3 2 9>755 2^
Duties on imports for the year 1792, estimated at (D) 3,300,000
Dutieson homemade l'pirits for the fame year, eltima-
tcdat ' • v ; !!!_!!_ 3 . 700;000
Total of nett revenue for the years 1791 and 1792, Dollars 26
NOTES.
(A 1 The produce of these three quarters may be considered as aicertained.—
Tho «eh returns have not been received from all the ports for the entire period ;
yet so many have been received (including the principal ports) as to have ad
mitted of a calculation with regard to the reft, not liable to materia error. Ihe
produco for the year 1790, has lerved as a guide, in refpeft to the ports from
ivhich returns have not been received. ... , . . ,
(.%) The sum here stated, is altogether upon eft.mate : the time which has
■lapsed fincc the end of the quarter not admitting of the proper documents. It
-xcecds the produce of the fame quarter, for the preceding year, fifty-five thou
arid seven hundred and seventy-three dollars and nineteen cents If the ratio of
noreafe of anv preceding quarter, during the year 1791, had been app .ed to
his quarter, the lum would have been considerably greater, hut it is believed,
hat this would not furnilh a just rule It is understood that the importations
tor the last quarter of 1790, were much mcreafed to avoid the additional dut.es
ivhich were to take place on the firft day of the year 1791. And tho ,gh the
idditional duty on dift.lled spirits, might at firft view be expected to add to the
product for the quarter in quest.on, yet it is far from certain that this was the
■ffect of it. Extraordinary exertions were made to import distilled spirits prior
: o July, when the additional duty took effect, which may be supposed to have
ieflened the quantity afterwards-fo as to leave it a qucftion whether this arti
cle was more or less productive in that quarter, than in the fame quarter of the
former year. Making allowance for these circumstances it does not appear pro
3able, that the last quarter of 1791, will exceed the last quarter of 1790, in so
.freat a proportion, as any of the preceding corresponding quarters
(CI This sum is materially Ihort of the originally estimated product, but from
•he returns hitherto received, it does not appear likely to be greater This is
DW.ne partly taa decreased dift.llation of (pints f.om foreign materials in con
of a sudden rife in the price of molasses, and partly to the obstacles
which have retarded the complete exccut.ono. the law.
(D~| The sum here estimated, cannot, in the nature of the thing, be accurate.
It nc udesacompromife of opposite considerations First, it contemplates an
additional sum for the additional duty on imported spirits, which will be ful y
operative during the present year. Secondly, it contemplates the poffibdity
that the disturbances in Hifpaniola may tend to diminifti the supply of leveral
articles which are objects of considerable duties, and may proport.onab y dim,-
mlh the revenue. Hence about one-third of the prooable encreafe of the du
ties on spirits is added to the produce of the year 179! and the aggregate is ta
ken as the produce of the year 1792, abating two-thirds of that encreale as an
Equivalent for other deficiencies. . .
V) The fame disturbances in Hifpaniola may be expected to dimmish the
product of the duties on homemade spirits, by considerably reducing the iupply
as molasses ; which added to the obstacles already alluded to (and which u wil
require yet some time completely to surmount) cannot fail to render the real
product ofthefedut.es, in the course of the present year, materially less than
P he estimated product. Accordingly an abatement of about one-third is made in
the present eftiinate.
1 rtc.Ja.ry Depa.,ls JiR. HAMILTON, Secretary of the, Trea.Jv.ry.
TcT
ESTIMATE of ANNUAL EXPENDITURE, on the ground of -exifing ejla-
J blijhments, viz. Dots. Cents.
FOR the support of the civil establishments of government, in
eluding 40,000 dollars for foreign ahairs, • • 3 , 53 o
Stated expenditure of the War Department, including 25,000 dol
lars for Indian affairs, , • * 3 q"' 7 § 1 r'
Pensions to Invalids, . <V>4 fe 3 °o
838,848 77
Interest on the public debt, foreign and domestic, including the
amount of the state debts assumed, . • • 2 )°49,'94 73
Total annual expenditure, . • • Dollars 3,688,033 50
Treasury department, January 23, 1 79 2 - ™
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, Secretary of the Treasury.
] UTHENTICk so offending, lhall be deemed guilty of
' (Never before printed.) manslaughter and upon conviction
atttc thereof, lhall be punilhed as at the
COPIEb OF THE LA Wo common law hath heretofore been u fed
Passed in the an( j accustomed : Provided neverthe-
TERRITORY of the UNITED STATES, lefs# that if
any person in the just and
North-weft of the River Oh 10, necessary defence of his own life, or the
By the Governor and Justices thereoj, an y o ther person, (hall kill or
Agreeably to the Ordinance of Congress of July fl a y another person attempting to rob
13, 1787, and made out from the Original Re- or murt Jer in the field or highway or to
cords in the Office of the Secretary for the said into a dwelling house, if he can-
Territory. not w i t h fafety to himfelf, otherwrfe
A LAW refpccting Crimes and purajh- fclon Qr a{Mant Qr bring hi;n
ments. Faffed September, t. \ t . t Q justice he lliall be holden guiltless.
(Continued.) ARSON .
MANSLAUGHTER. If any person or persons, shall wil-
IF any person (hall wilful- fully and maliciously burn or cause to
ly kill or flay another person without be burnt, or lhall be wilfully and mali
malice aforethought, he, fhej or they, cioufly aiding and af&ftiag in burning
Numb. 26.any dwelling house or other building
thereunto adjoining lie flic or they lo
offending fliall he deemed guilty of ar
fbn, and upon conviction thereof fliall
be whipped not exceeding thirty nine
stripes, put in.the pillory and there be
continued not exceeding the space of
two hours; confined in gaol not exceed
ing the Ipace of three years, and forfeit
all his, her or their estate real and pcr
fonal to this territory ; out of which
estate if lufficicnt fliall be paid to the
party injured his full damages : And
in cafe death should ensue from such
burning, the offender or offenders upon
conviction thereof fliall fuffer the pains
of death.
BURGLARY.
If any person or perlons shall in the
nightfealonbreak open and enter any
dwelling house. shop, store or vclfel in
•which any person or pcrfons dwell or
reside with a view and intention of
stealing and purloining therefrom, he,
she or they so offending fliall be deemed
guilty of burglary, and upon conviction
thereof shall be whipped not exceeding
thirty nine stripes and find sureties for
good behaviour for a term not exceed
ing three years, and upon default of
sureties fliall be committed to gaol for
a term not exceeding three years, or
until fentcnce be performed.
If the person or persons so breaking
and entering any dwelling house, i'nop,
store or veflel as aforefaid, fliall actually
ileal and purloin therefrom, he Ihe or
they so offending upon conviction
thereof shall moreover be fined in tre
ble the value of the articles stolen, one
third of such fine to be to the territory,
and the other two thirds to the party
injured. If the perlon or pcrfons so
breaking and entering any dwelling
house, shop, (lore or veifel as aforefaid
fliall commit, or attempt to commit any
pcrfonal abuse, force or violence, or
shall be so armed with any dangerous
■weapon or weapons as clearly to indi
cate a violent intention, he, she, or they
io offending upon conviction thereof
shall moreover forfeit all his her or
their estate, real and personal to this
territory, out of which the party inju
red shall be recompensed as aforefaid,
and the offender fliall alio be committed
to any gaol in the territory for a term
not exceeding forty years.
And if the death of any innocent per
foti should ensue from the breaking and
entering any dwelling house, shop, store
or veflel as aforefaid in any of the in
stances aforefaid, the person or persons
lo breaking and entering shall be deem
ed guilty of wilful murder ; and all
perlons aiding and assisting in breaking
and entering any dwelling ho'ule, shop
store or vessel as aforefaid, or in any of
the crimes consequent thereupon, as
before pointed out, shall be deemed
principals.
ROBBERY.
If any person or perlons fliall unlaw
fully and forcibly take from the per
lon of another in the field or highway
any money, goods or chattels, he she ot
they so offending shall be deemed guil
ty of robbery and upon conviction
thereof shall fuffer as in the firft
instance of burglary.
Whoever fliall commit such robbery
■with pcrfonal abuse or violence, or be
armed at the time with any danger
ous weapon or weapons so as clcarlv
to indicate an intention of violence, he
she or they so offending, upon convicti
on thereof shall moreover fuffer as in
tile second instance of burglary.
And in cafe any person or persons
robbing or attempting to rob 'as afore
faid, shall kill or flay any person 01
pfcrfons defending him her or them
selves, or others, or bis, her, or their
property against such robber 01
robbers, or person or pcrfons attempt
ing to rob, or in pursuing and endea
vouring to apprehend and secure such
person or persons so robbing or attempt
ing to rob, he, she or they to offending
shall be deemed guilty of wilful murder.
.And all aiders and abettors in any rob
bery as aforefaid, and in any of the
crimes consequent thereupon as before
pointed out, shall be deemed principals
[To be continued.)
This day is Publifh'eH
and for sale by
THOMAS LANG,
No. 91, Church alley, i
An Essay on
COMMERCE and LUXURY.
Kc.-printed from the London edition*—Pike Ift.
I. O N D O' N, Nov.*4.
Report of the Committee of the Revom -
tion Society, Kov. 4, 1791.
(rent!, men,
DIRECT FD bvthe constitution o!
this focicty, your committee have
now the honor of reporting to you theii
proceedings since the lad anniversary
Your committee have diligently at
tended to the interest of the society
founded, in their opinion, on the prin
ciples cis irresistible truth. They haw
formed fub-committecs, in order to fa
cilitate, and prepare for publication
the valuable corrclpondence fubfiftint
between this society and the natioi
which has made io glorious an exertior
in favor of the unalienable rights o
man.
Your committee would have rejoiccc
to pr:!cnt that correspondence to yoi
this day, but the arrangement of it re
quires too much time. Your committee
however, come forward with exultatior
to congratulate you on the complctior
of the laborsof the late virtuous nation
al assembly of France ; and will here
briefly recite the names of thofc pa
triotic societies, both in that countn
and our own, who have honored thi:
society with their correspondence.
Since the last report, those of Franc<
arc as follows :
The adembly of commons of Paris
the societies at Auxerrc, Arras, Bi eft
Bordeaux, Bayonne, Clermont, Se
rand, Cognac, Grenoble, llieres, Hav
re, Langon, Lificux, Limoges, Mar
feilles, Marrenes, Nifmes, Paris (Youni
Friends) Rouen, Saintes, St. Servan
Thouloufe (Young Friends) Tours, Vcr
failles, Valencc.
Those in England are :
Cambridge, Manchester, Norwich
and Taunton.
All the letters from France exprefsir
the strongest manner, " affedtion for th<
English, and enthuliafm for liberty."—
The following extratts from three o
them, "will give lome idea of the bold
manly, and amiable sentiments whicl
run through the whole.
From Marfeilles—"Engliflimen, yoi
are our elders, in the character of pa
triots. We have admired you for ;
century—for a century have wc enviec
vouf happiness. Weighed down b\
the fetters of despotism, our lctharg)
was but as a ileep. The hour of our )i
berty is come, To-day we arc men
We are worthy of you.
Englishmen! Frenchmen ! Friends t(
the revolution and to the liberty of na
tions ! let us be emulous in exertin;
the efforts of reason and genius, to eita
blifh over the whole furface of the ha
bitable globe, the imprelcriptible right:
of man, and the rights of the legitimat<
lovereigns of the people."
From Brcft—" The alfociation of free
nations becomes the dread of tyrants
and the signal of their inevitable fall
Your principles and ours propagatf
themfelvcs—This sacred fire, in lpite o
the obstacles opposed to it filenth
spreads, and will produce, from pole tt
pole an explofton as terrible, as fata
to tyrants. Already our neighbour:
strive against defpotifm—lf thev ari
not already ripe for liberty, at least the\
feel the weight of their chains, and tha
is the firft step towards it—The happi
ness which is preparing for us will give
them ne\y energy ; and if we ma-\
trust to our presentiments and our wish
es, all Europe will soon become brethren.—
No, gentlemen !—Free Frenchmen in
longer fear that generous Englifhmci
arc endeavoring to destroy the gloriou:
work of our constitution. You know
too well, brave Islanders ! the inclti
mable value of liberty, and your inter
ests are now bccom: common with oui
own. .There are none but slaves whe
will engage in the conspiracies of def
pots —>anct what will avail the effort:
of that senseless herd against men
whole motto is-—to live free or die.
From the iociety of Young Friends al
Paris—" Mayan amiable philanthropy
the triumph of that philosophy, oi
which you are the worthy apostles, suc
ceed to the painful sensation of faftiou:
enmity, with the true cause of whicl
the people of neither country were cvei
acquainted. And may our two nations,
united by a kind disposition to love
each other, and by that liberty which
ai last is common to us both, present
to the whole world an impenetrable
phalanx, against which the combined
efforts of all the despots on earth will be
exerted in vain. Gentlemen, you have
been tailed 1v a new name—<■" The •.
"tyqf Revo! .lions"—You will not dil
ewn it; for you will .never ti
dcfirc them till revolutions shall be uu
necellary ; until freedom and happi
ness, the common right of all men, flial
be in the po lie Hi on of all."
Your committee alio corigratulat:
you on the revolution in Poland ; (>r
the progrels which that country ha;
made towards general libcrtv.
Gentlemen, your committee rccol
lefted, with a peculiar degree of latis
faction. that this lbciety flood fingh
forward, firm and unshaken, as friend
to the liberties of mankind, at a timi
when the glorious llruggle in Franci
leemed doubtful even to its belt anc
bravelt alferters.—ln that importan
moment, you became a bright exampli
to the reft of your countrymen, b}
unanimously adopting a morion of con
gratulation to that truly illu/trious as
I'embly, in the infancy and peril of the.ii
labors.—But while we rejoice in thi:
pleasing retrofpeft, we cannot but verj
ienfibly feel the irreparable lols whict
this lociety, this country, and th(
world have fuffercd by the death of the
late Dr. Price, to whole worth no lan
guage can do fufheient justice. lit
was, indeed the Apostle of liberty
whole name will be recorded in the
hearts of mankind, when not a trace o
the existence of his calumniators lhal
remain.
Gentlemen, your committee loo!
back with triumph to the glorious ex
crtions in the year 1688. 'Ihe princi
ples then recognized and eflablifhed art
yours. They are the principles upor
which you now ast, on which, and a:
friends to your country, and mankind
you will continue to ast, till politica
knowledge and the love of liberty, ih a 1
be so general, that the prostitution ol
the public press to the united purpose:
and corrupting wealth of the word mei:
in this country and the wretched fugi
tives from France, shall be no longei
able to excite the ignorant fury ol 1
misguided mob againfl the belt,'or ra
ther the only friends of their rights anc
happiness.
PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, Jan. 23.
A petition was read, from Patriol
Collins, praying compensation for fer
vices in the army, during the war
referred to the Secretary at War.—
Also, a petition from Abraham Supplee
praying oompenlation for lupplies fur
nifhed by himfelf and brother, to tin
army, during the war. Referred to th<
Secretary of the Treasury.
A meifage was received from the Pre
fident of the United States, by Mr
Lear, his Secretarv, notifying that thi
I'refident did this day approve and figi
an ast for extending the time limited so
lettling the accounts of the Unitec
States with the individual flatcs—/
written message was alio delivered b)
Mr. Lear, from the President, as sol
lows :
United States, Jan. 23. 1792.
Gentlemen of the Senate and o
the Houle of Representatives.
Having received from the Governo
of Virginia a letter incloling a refolutior
of the general aflembly of that state, anc
a report of a committee of the Houle o:
Delegates, reipefting certain lands lo
cated by the officers and soldiers of the
Virginia line under the laws of that
state, and fincc ceded by the Chickafaw
Indians. I lav lome copies of the
lame before you, together with a report
of the Secretarv of State 011 this fuhjeft.
G. WASHINGTON
The President's letter and the papers
accompanvinsj the fame, were referred
to the committee-appointed on the third
day of November last, to examine on
the matter therein contained.
A letter was laid before the House
from the Comptroller of the Trcafurv,
covering an account of extra expenccs
incurred by the late commiffionersfor
treating of peace with the Creek Indi
ans, which was read and ordered to lie
on the table.
The House then, in committee of the
whole, refumcd the confederation of the
report c.fthc Secretary of the TreafuVv
on the petition of C atharine Greene,
widow of the l;»te major-generalGrecne.
A motion i-.avingbeen made to indemni
fy the cftatc of the late major-general
Greene lor ccrtain con rafts by him en
tered into lor obtaining supplies for tlie
use of the army under his command.—
After iome debate on this fubjeft, the
Ljuellion lor indemnification was taken
and 'oft. and upon motion it was order
ed that the committee be discharged
from further proceeding on the laid re
port
Mr. liourne then laid on the ta
llica rcfolution, for referring tlie Secre
tary's report together with Mrs.
Greene's, petition, and tlie vouchers ac
companying it, to a feleft committee,
with inftruftion to enquire into the
f.ifts which rendered it necelTary for
general Greene to become security to
Banks and Co. and the nature, circum
stances, and amount of the original
debt, and the obligations entered into
)v general Greene tor payment thereof;
with an account of the monies or colla
teral security received by the obligees,
ar by general Greene in his life time,
3r his representatives since his death, in
part thereof ; and the eventual loss
which his estate will luftain in confe
rence of the said securities ; and af;er
-xamijiing all the circumstances, and
I'uch further evidence as may be offered
relative to the tranluftion, to report
iheir opinion thereon to the House.
I he Speaker laid befoie- the House a
letter from the Secretary of the Trek fu
ry, covering his report, and sundry
statements refpefting the finances of the
United States, made pursuant to an or
der of the House on Thursday last.—
Read and ordered to lie on the table.
Upon motion, it was ordered.that the
-eport of the Secretary of the Trcalury
>n manuladtures be committed to a coin
nitteeofthe whole Houle on Monday
next.
The House proceeded to consider the
eport ol the leleft committee on the
nettage from the President refpefting a
ettcr from the Attorney-General—
which being agreed to, a committee was
ippointed to briug in a bill in confoi
mitv to the fame.
Tuesday, Jan. 24.
Several petitions were read, prayini
:ompenfations for services rendered,&c
which were referred to the Secretary of
he Treasury, feleft committees, &c.
A bill was reported from the com
mittee appointed, relative to tlie office
as the Attorney-General of the United
States: which was read twice, and re
ferred to a committee of the whole
House on Friday next.
The House then, in committee of the
whole, took into consideration the re
port ot a leleft committee refpefting an
apportionment of the reprefentalion a
mong the people of the several dates.—
Ihe report is as follows: " Resolved,
1 hat it is the opinion of this commit
tee, that a bill ought to be prepared for
apportioning reprefentativcs among the
several Hates according to the firft enu
meration ; and making provision for a
leeond enumeration, and for an appor
tionment of reprefentativcs thereon, to
compose the House of Representatives
after the third day of March, 1797."
1 he . following amendment was pro
polcd to the report : " And that no
greater ratio be reported than thirty
thousand inhabitants for every repre
lentative."—which resolution and a
mendment were, after some debate, a
jreed to, and the committee reported
tccordingly.
A motion was then made, by Mr
Dayton, to amend the report of the
:ommittee of the whole by striking out
ill that followed the words " firft enu
meration"—upon which the question
being taken, it palted in the negative—
yeas 22, nays 36.
Ihe question was next taken on.
striking out the amendment, relative
to the ratio of representation, which
palfed in the affirmative ; yeas 33. nays
26.
A committee was then appointed to
bring in a bill in conformity to the
report, as amended.
Ihe House took into conficeration
the amendments proposed by the com
mittee of the whole House to the bill
relpecting claims to half pay and inva
lid penlions, to which several amend
ments being made, the House adjourned
without having gone through the bill.PI r 1 uURGI. January y.
Extract of a Utter from a prrfon ot F^rt
Franklin to his corrrfpondent in this [dace.
dated December, 29. 1791
" I arrived at this place after a disa
greeable and fatiguing journey of fix
davs. Immediately after rriy arrival
Vve received very alarming news from
the Cornplanter, that the western Indi
ans were coming to cut off both him and
us—the event of this, Cod only knows.
By accounts from Indians we hear that
800 Canadians were in the action a
itainfl our people the 4th of November
lafl, and that 100 Indians were killed,
and 400 wounded at that time.
Fori ll'afhington, Nov. 27, J 79 J.
My dear Sir,
I have the pleasure to make for you,
agreeably to your desire, the following
cxtract from general orders, and am,
your humble and obedient servant.
W. SARGEANT.
Major Hamtramck,
Head, Quarters. Fort IVafhin/rton, Nov. 27.
1791. GJficer of the day, iSc.
At the Ceneral Court Martial, wherco'
Major Clark is Prefidcnt.
Major Hamtramck, commandant ol
the lfl United States Regiment, was tri
ed upon the following charges exhibit
ed against him by Lieut. Colonel Darke
of the Levies.
Unofßcer and unfoldierly behaviout
in fhamefullv retreating from or for fear
of the enemy on the /th instant : Also.
for scandalous behaviour in endeavour
ing to prevent a guard from going with
provif.ons to relieve Fort Jefferfon.
The court arc of opinion that the
charges exhibited against Major Ham
tramck are not supported. and do acquit
him with honor, which the General ap
proves, and directs that he may be im
mediately released from arrest and hole
himfelf in readiness for command foi
Vincenncs.
The court martial isdiflolved,
WINTHROP SARGEANT,
Adjutant General.
E O S T O N, Januatv 11.
CFthe Corps Diplomatique, in Portugal, noil'
fuppott a more elegant style than Col. HUM
PHREYS, the Rtjidfnt from the United States —
and in his attention to his countrymen none cat
exceed him. All his domeflics are Americans—
}iis (late-coach was made at Philadelphia, and i
drawn by four beautiful American horses. Hi
Excellency, we understand, is (hortly to be mar
ried to an accompli ed young lady, of l.ijbon—
polTWfrd of an immense fortune. •' The fair rewari
the brave."
N EW-YORK, Jan. 21.
At a meeting of a numbcf of Merchants aric
Traders of the city of New York, at Corre's Ho
tel on Thursday, January ig, 1-9", for the pur
pofc of deliberating on the propriety of forming i
NEW BANK in the laid city.
Mr. ISAAC CI-ASON, in the chair.
The following plan was resolved on to be sub
initted to the public :
That a Batik be eflablilhed by the name ari<
flile of the President, Direiflors and Company o
the MERCHANTS BANK of New York.
That the capital {lock of said Bank, lhall no
exceed one million of dollars, dividfcd into twenty
five hundred (hares of 400 dollars each.
That one hundred (hare? be relerved for Tub
fcription by this (late, provided the lcgi(latur<
cause it to be made within fifteen months fron
the firtl day o! February next, but in cafe fuel
fubfeription (hall not be made within the time li
mited, the .Stockholders may make such difpofiti
on of (aid (hares as they (hall think fit.
That no person, Copartnerftiip or body politit
(ball fubferibe for more than ten (hares for tht
space o( five days, from the time of opening tht
liiblcription, atter which time any number o
(hares may be fubferibed for, not exceeding
twenty.
That the firft payment to be made, (hall be twe
hundred dollars for each (hare, the other payment
to complete a (hare to be made in such mannei
and proportion as the DiretSors (hall require, giv
ingthe Stockholders at lead twenty days notice.
That in order to give greater (lability to till!
institution.no transfer or afiignment ot (lock (hatl
be made for the space of twelve calendar month:
from the date of fubfeription, except in cases ol
detah ©r insolvency.
That as focn as twelve hundred (hares are fub
feribed, a meeting (hall be called of the fubferi
bers, when a committee (hall be appbinted tc
frame a constitution for the Bank. ,
That a genera! meeting of the merchants and
traders is requellcd at Corre's Hotel on Saturday
even rg the 21ft infl. at 6 o'clock, to determine
on the propriety of the foregoing plan.
_Januar> 13.
At a meeting ol the supporters to the eflablifli
ment of a Merchants Bank, at Corre's Hotel, on
Saturday evening tall,
Mr. lfaac Clafon inthe chair,
A motion was made ;yid carried unanimously,
tp appoint ivcommi'tee to wait on the committees
at the State and Nbllitn Banks, to fignily the in
tention of this Bank. That it is their will) to
■o '»'• ro-c of die other Banks, in a
petition to the Legislature tor eflablifhmetat.
])un"ff the absence of the committer, Mr.
Gl 'ion vacated the chair, and on their return to
report. Mr. Jacob Mullet was called on to filj
ihe chair, when the committee repotted as fol
lows:
That the committee of the Sta'e and Million
TVmks app.oved a consolidation of tne iutercfls
of all parties to effect the eflabhfhment of ano
ther Sank (so much required) in this cifv, and
for that purpose redommendtd.them to petiiion
ihe legislature for the fame as they were about to
tlo, praying the legislature to pass a law for such
purpose, under such reft rifclions as they in their
wisdom H»a 11 judge fit.
PHILADELPHIA,
JANLf AR V 26, 1792.
The following APPOINTMENTS are by
tuthorirv. William Carmichael and William
Short, efquircs, are appointed Commiflioners on
he pars of the United States, for negociating a
reaty.or convention relative toth? navigation of
be Miffilippi, with such commiffiopers as are or
nay be authorized thereto by his Catholic majesty.
We hear from New-York, Mat a Tontine
[Doffee-Houfe is proposed to f>e eflablilned in
hat city. The committee appointed to fuperin
end thebufiijefs of the inftituVion have given
notice, that thev will pay a premium of ten gui
leiis to the person who (ball deliver in, before
ihe 20th day of February ensuing, the best plan
(or the bu Iding tbev propose to have ereaed,
ind a premium of five guineas for the second
>cft plan. The edifice is to be four (lories high,
ind to occupy a space of fifty feet by seventy,
ieing the corner of Wall and Water-Streets.
A coal-mine has been difcoveied on the Le
ieigh in the county of Northampton, state of
Pennlylvania. The coal yet found is small, but
here is every reason to believe that by searching
leeper it will be found larger; the quality is good,
if this natural advantage is improved it will be a
prodigious resource to this city, and cheapen the
Irticle of fuel, which now from the labor of tranf
wtation bears a high price, 'i he Leheigh is a
branch of the Delaware. Ihe T renton falls be
ng rendered navigable, the transportation of coal
roni this mine will be cheap and easy.
The managers, and other officers of the Penn
"ylvania holprtal in this city, have petitioned the
egiflature of this Hate for pecuniary aid to com
jlrte the said hospital 011 its original plan, and
enable them to make it as extenfivelv ufeful as
he nature of Inch an inflitution demands. —It
my be proper to add that the defion of the be
levQlent founders of this hofpiial (in 1752) 'has
aeen io sully.answered, notwithstanding various
ralumuous interruptions, as to have been the
atife ol admitting (til! May 1791) eight thou
aud two hnndied and seventy-nine sick and indi
gent persons. out of which one thousand one
lundred and four have died in the hospital, and
lve thousand two hundred ani fifty-nine, have
jeen discharged cured.
It appears from London papers that Lord Dor
:hc(hr, (better known in the United States undei
he appellation ol Sir Guy Caileton) late gover
roi ot Canada, aid not leave that province with
heenrire good withes of the people. About the
ime of lirs departure, a number of the citizens ol
Quebec were convened under pretence of pub
ic business, but, in fa el, to draw up a compli
nentary addtvls to the governor, and wish him
1 good voyage. Several of the persons prefeiH,
previous to piefenting as address, proposed a dif
udion of the governors merits and his title tt
iny return of thanks. This, however, was op
50!. d, and the queHion being taken for an ad
kefs or not, it was cariied by a bare majority
I'he opposition was principally ifiade by the mer
inutile bodv, who in their reafo.is f®r dissent
:omplarn of many abuses under his Ixjrdftiip':
dminiOraiion, pai ticularly his having kept up ;
ine ot (iiihncfion between the Englilh and Ca
ladian fiench, and his almost total neglect of tin
nercantile interests of the province. The ad-
Irefs, it is said, was moflly signed by placemen
jenfioners, expeflants, and hangers on from £ng
and, ' who hat'e little er no interest in the gen
■ral ptofperity of the province."
We are informed that at 4 o'clock on Monda)
norning the mercury in a very accurate thermo
fieter , Farenheit s scale ; in this city flood at fivf
legrees below o.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in Augujlc
county, Virginia, to t!ie editor, Jan. 7.
" The firfl dawn of a spirit of improvemeni
n this part of the country, is a proposition thai
las been recently made to eflabliilr a society for
he improvement of agriculture. Certain it is,
[hat there is abundance of room among us in
hefe parts for improvements of that nature-
Could we become polfeffed of the plan of the
organization of the Pennsylvania agricultural fo
-iety, and a brief account of the impiovements 01
Jifcoveries that have been made in consequence
hereof, it would be of immense advantage to uj
n our proposed undertaking. Please to make
enquiry on this fubjeft, and if vou transmit me
my information of this kind you will be entitled
10 the thanks of, &c."
Extra!! of a Utter from Pittfiurg,jfan. 18,
" It is one of the happy consequences of un
civilized warfare, that a lavage enemy cannot,
r or want of supplies, repeat the flioke they have
once given, or take advantage of victories which
ortuine may have thrown in their way.' Had
hey found themselves in a Halation to take
the full advantage of tleir I.. fc f/.croG, \v*c !:avc
every reason 10 think tb;>t this port imift have
been abandoned beto»e the 'prelent tune. At
present our apprchenfions begin a In tie to abate,
tho'we are not yet entirely free from fears of
'an attack, as the hostile Indians have, no doubt,
circumfiantial accounts of our defencelefs state.
At present the WeOern Territory lies, in a
manner, defofate, and what people are left, ex
tirmelv difneartened—Governing, there, I do
assure you, is by by no means au eligible thing,
and may be compared to the whimfict-l govern
ment of Sane ho m the iiland of Barrataria, no
thing but alarm and disorder—or, in the fenti
tr.ent addressed to Gen. Oglethorpe upon the
flift fettkment of Georgia, it is
" Like Death, foreign
O'er silent fubjefls and a desert plain.*'
11 Prudence seems to deteimine that the Ohio
mould be our boundary for some time to come ;
at least, if we go beyond that, let the fettleis
have an army stationed at different strong pofls
to defend them, and into which they oc
:afionalJy retreat."
Ex'rdß of a litter from N. York. jar>. 24.
" From the large quantities of Ice that have
)een brought ihto'this city for the fortnight lad
?aft, one would be inclined to fufpett it was
Tieant for an article of commerce next summer,
f not of (peculation 1 . Numerous and mighty
ire the advantages ps COnsolidation ; and it is to be
iopcd those who fpeculatein the icy funds, may
lot be altogether disappointed in their views."
Fxtraft of a Utter from BojtoflJan. 15.
A gentleman who arrived in fOwrt last even
ng from Portland, informed rtie, that just be
"01 e he set out fiom that place, a vefTel arrived
here from the Weft-ladies ; the captain
>f which spoke, within a few days fail ofHifpa
liola', a French squadron, a fi.ip of the line and
hree frigates, which had on board count Dillon,
ind seven thoufard troops, destined for Cape
Francois, to quell the infurrcdion of the ne
groes." [U. S. Gaz.
Extract of a letter from Barcelona. Oft. 8,
1791, to arefpeftcible horife in this city.
" Our last to you was under the 17th of
yuft ult. and being (ince deprived of any of your
cfteemcd favors, we have only to acquaint you
sf the present state of our grain market. Wheat
from abroad will be in demand until our next
:rop, and your best quality will command R. V.
n. 52 per quarter on board, equal to 19s. 6d.
Pennsylvania currency, for two Winchefler
bushels.
" But as there has been a plentiful crop in
Great-Britain, and permifTion granted there for
exportation of graiq, which together with the
general peace etfe&ed in the North, that will
facilitate the remittances of considerable quan
tities of that article from the Baltic ; and will,
together with the supplies from America, 110
doubt, occasion a considerable fall in f his mar
ket. This advice is for your government.
<l Since our said last advices, our wines and
brandies have advanced 40 per cent, owing to
nur vintage not having produced more than one
half the quantity of last year, and that the de
mands from all parts are very great."
At a meeting of the governor and dirctlors of the
Society, for the cftablifhing vfeful manufatlures
held at. the city of Neuj-Brvnfwick, the soth Jan.
1792. The following refoluticns lucre entered
in to :
ill. RESOLVED, That the rivers Delaware,
[laritan and Pafaick afford eligible pofifions
"or fixing the principal feat of the town and ma
lufadorics of the society.
2d. Resolved, That fix members be chosen
>y ballot, who, with the concurrence of the go
vernor, fliall be authorized to fix the position of
he principal feat of the manufaflures of this fo
:ietv, and to enter into and conclude such con
rafts and engagements, either for the purchase of
ands or for other purposes, relative to this sub
eQ, as they shall find mod conducive to the in
ereft of the society, keeping in view the neceftity
)f obtaining a quantity of lands not interfered
,vith private poilefTions, fufficient for the efta
>lifhment of the town and factories of the society.
3d. That the fai'.h of this society he pledged
or fulfilling the engagements entered into, in
>ehalf of the society, in pursuance of theforego
ng resolutions.
The board proceeded to ballot for the com
mittee, and the ballots being taken the following
gentlemen were chosen, viz.
Alexander M'Cotnb, Thomas Lowry,
John Dewhurft, Benjamin Walker,
Archibald Mercer, Elifha Boudinot.
A. true extract from the minutes.
ELISHA BOUDINOT, Sec ry pro tempore.
Tr&iijlations from the Ley den Goxotte y Otio
ber 28.
PARIS, Otfobcr 21.
So riegle&ful have the criminal courts of justice
Wpcn during the ear!v stages of the Revolution,
ind such hosts of thieves ani pilferers have been
Jttra&ed to this capital by the profpeft of nation
il anarchy, fhat all our jails are crowded with in
rredible numbers of those abandorted characters.
>0 long ago as last January the courts were behind
in no less than twelve hundred criminal pro
:efles- Most of those are now finifhed, but, in
he mean time, others have accumulated in a vast
abundance.
BrusSkls, OCTo. 24. A new schism is ga
hering ftreneth between the Imperial government
and the state* of Brabant. The latter obstinately
refufe to recognrze the sovereign council of Bra
bant on their present eftablifliment. On the 17th
of (his montli t;6uJc® oC SY'aT»j>rif, tlie £<r;H«
ror's Regent in tfte iow countries caulVd fencenfe
of contumacy ro be pronounced tl<e Bia
banrcrs, with a rettof; ecV to eftaiT) resolution*
palfed/by them in May laflt, rn which they call the
Em;ero.\> juris t\\cn iv-rttirrh* illegal. TKe
iJ-ukt, with the accult'mid iimality, tore the
relolutions in pieces, the day before yelterday, in
the council chart)brr, a mid ft the shouts
ind of a great nun- ber of persons affrm
3led on the occalim.
OEiober 25. On the iSlh, fenfrnce was execut
ed upon thole persons who traiimnufl v funendered
the Citidel of in 179 c. Major Gen
-ral de Gavaux and his Col. Solare?,.
du Lami, and others were condemned to
ie nangvd j but having previously made their ef
:ape, the Sieur Gavaux v\as executed in Effigy,
ind Labels containing the names of the others
A/ere nailed to the gallows. Captain Sack, ©t the
irtilferv, was carried to the place ol cxecution, de
graded of his commifli'on, declared infamous, e-ar
ied to the f'ortrels in iions, and condemned to
our years close impril'onrofcnt. Others have be*n
juniihed in proportion to rheir criminality.
From, the CorirteEliciit €oufant<
Saints Hints on a very feriaas Subj.c£l.
THE Indian war is very unpopular. Why ?
S.iv the friends of (he war, because it has
Jeen vnfuccefsful. No, this is not the reason. It
s becaule, ill luccels has called the attention of
People to theJ'vbjctt.
What excule have we for waging war with the
indians? Why this: tlie savage fellows make
"ar on our fiontier settlements, and kill and
calp the whites. Then eflablifii foits and gar
ifons on the Ohio, and a fufficient number of
:hofcn light troops to fcotir the borders of the
iVers, and keep the drawling Indiansat a dif
ance. Cahnot this be done ? But this is all that
:an be done. We mull make peace with them
>r kill tliem—But we can do neitTier. It lies
,vilh them to fay whether they make peace or
lot; and in order to kill them, we mull firfl catth
hem. We mud set traps for them, or put fait
m their tails.
But why fend large bodies of menafter Indians;
ind let them know a year before hand what rs
obe done ? Why fend cannon into the woods
lfter Indians ? The Indians learn war from us,
A'hy not we learn of them ? Why not fight them
n their own way, with frflall parties, in the
xiflies, by surprize, when a handful are to be
ound alone ? Why alarm them, and give thetn
ime tocolleft wan iors from Lake Superior ?
But is the land where we go in quest of Indians,
>urs ? Is the Indian title extinguilhed, bonafde,
n good conscience P If not, what right have we
m the ground? But the Indians will not keep
heir own limits—they trespass and murder our
>eople on their own ground. Then contrail
>ur frontiers as much as polfible—fend force
nough to defend them—and if our people trcf
lafs on Indian property, let them be scalped.—
Jut we want to makeJale of the wejlern lands to
hik our debts. Wedonot. We do not want a
oot of land. We have more vacant land, with
n fafe limits, than will be fettled these thirty
'ears : and if theie was not a savage on this fide
he Midifippi, Congress would do wrong to o
>en a Land-Ofiice for the sale of the lands in
:ontioverfy.
Let Pennsylvania, New-York, and Kentucky
>e firft fettled—well peopled—and die land far
her weft will be valuable. The population in
hose Hates is iapid—a few years will fee a body
>f men in the neighborhood of these felds of blood
vhich will be able to cope with all the Indianson
his fide the Mifi.Gppi; and when that force is
iear> the Indians will recede gradually and leave
he land or fell it willingly, without bloodshed.
Let otfenfive operations cease. They are calcu
atrd lor land jobbers merely—they are fatally
uinons, without a public object.
But if money mull be expended to kill Indi
ins, offer to the whites and friendly Indians a
arge bounty upon Indian scalps; five, nay ten
lollars a scalp. We (hall soon fee that country
lear of savages. Start not at this propolal, as
liftionorablc. It is not diflionorable. If war
null be ciriiedon, by us, it is the mofi proper
vay of doing it, for it is the Indian way —and tlie
aws of war urge for retaliation. It is fiiocking,
t is monllrous to fend solid columns of men into
he woods, to (land as marks to be (hot at by an
ncmy in the grass. Offer bounties for scalps, and
irompt the avaiice of men, in a war <vhere no
;lory is to be obtained. Until the mode of war
s changed, our men do not fight on equal terms.
Besides, a different mode of war will be less
■xpenfive. Have we money to throw aw<v ?It
hould be ccmfidered, that while our public ex-
Jefiditures are encreafing, our reverues are fati
ng. The duties on spirits have diminished thr.
:onfumption in this part of the country to a mod
obvious degree ; while the diflurbances in the
[flands check the importation, so that the revenue
rull in all probability fall far fliort of calculati
>n. —How then is the Indian War to be fupport
:d ? Perhaps—by hiring soldiers for—one dollar
1 month.—All which is humbly submitted 10
vifer heads.
PRICE or STOCK.
Funded Debt.
Six per cents, - 45/7.
Three per cents, - - IV/4*
Deferred lix per cents, -- - - 15./7.
Unfunded Debt,
Final settlements, - 21/6.
Indents due previous to 17SS, \*(.
Six per aents, p. &d. in April 16/5.
Bank Stock 1 z Shares 112, per
cent, advance.
—' at sixty days - 1I4.«—115
—at four months, - 121.
Full Dtares at four months 7a.PALEMON to LAVINIAf.
AMIDST chefe shades, and heart depreflin c
glooms
Vu*t comfort (hall I give—what can I fay !
Come here, and fit with me—let s talk, ot tombs,
For this, Lavinia, is a cloudy day.
Say, do I wake ?—or are my woes a dream 5
Jt l"o—diead vision ! waft me far away ;
Remove me quick from this Acy glancing dream
That glides, unconscious, to the Indian bay.
Alcander !—ah—what tears for thee must flow—
"What doom awaits the wretch that murder'd thee.
May never flower in his curs'd garden blow,
May never fruit adorn his hated tiee !
May that fine spark, which Nature lent to man,
Reason ! be thou extinguifh'd in his brain,
Sudden his doom, contradted be his span,
Ne'er to exist, or rife from dust again.
May no kind genius save his step from harms,
"Where'er he fails, may tempeijs rend the sea }
.May never maiden yield to him her charins,
Nor prattling infant hang upon his knee !
The pensive priest accoftsme with a sigh ;
"With movement flow, in fable robes he came ;
But why so lad, philosopher,—ah, why,
Since from the tomb alone—all bliss we claim ?
Retire, retire from this disastrous fliore ;
Dark is the fun when woes like these dismay—
1 quit my groves, and view with joy »o more,
The fragrant orange, and the fiowret gay I
f Occafcned by a melancholy event mentioned it
the bijiory of Louijiana, 0' Reilty , governor of tlx
Spanijh territories in tbofe parts, discovering a num
ber of citizens engaged in a con/piracy to deliver u/
the province to the French, invited forty of then
to dinner j 'who having dined, ivere mjiantly order
ed tp he banged in fight of tbe ivhoie to wn of Neiv-
Orleans. 'The above lines are founded on this tragi
cal event, and may be JuppoJcd to have been ivrittet
by a ptrfen nearly connehed in family and friend(hif
ivitk one of the unfortunate Jufferers. G. D.
?hc Protejl of the Princs of the House of B'urbon
agairji the Acceptance of tbe Constitution.
" IT is in vain that an unfortunate monarch
always captive, though free in appearance, ha:
conlented to the ruin of his faithful fubje&s— tt
the ruin of tlie monarchy—by accepting a pretend
ed constitution of the empire j it is in vain tha
he has signed his own degradation j this fari&ioi
which ihe king has jiiven in fafl to a monftrou:
code, is really no fanftion in right. And who cai
be persuaded of the legality of such an assent
while every thing proclaims the contrary ?
" Can a prince, left alone amidst ufurpcrs, sur
rounded with the wrecks ot his own throne, en
com patted by fears and menaces, beset by intrigue
have freedom of choice; is not every consent null
« Freedom consists in being able tochufe with
out danger, and without fear j it cannot exist with
out this condition, and conlent is null, when re
"fufal would hazard the fafety and property of hin
who gives it. If the king had refufed to accep
the constitution, he would have been deprived o
the crown j so had the usurping aflembly decreed
And in rejecting with disdain a degraded crown
and presented by a seditious aflembly, was the kin i
master of the choice of his asylum r and would h
not have exposed his person, and all that was * ''
more dear to him, to outrage, and his laithtu
fubjefts to proscription, to murder, and to confla
£r " without doubt, had Lou'n XVI. entertaine
the hope of dying at least with glory, it hu blow
could 'have saved France, the mheritor of h
virtues .f Henry IV. would have d.splayed h,
courage. Forced to obtain his inheritance b
conquest, he would, like him, have been the vitto
ana the father of his fubjetfs , and, like him
would have compelled them to become happy, bu
what can courage do without support . enr )\ 31
an army ; while' Louis, alone, betrayed, abandon
ed, captive in the hands of his enemies, vuthou
auxiliaries, forced even to regret the happy ob cu
rity of the mcaneft of his fubjefts, in the midst o
an importunate crowd, who served rather to be
IWe than defend him, found not eve,, one fr.en
to (hare his furrows, and wipe away his tears.
The king then could form no other deter
mination than that which he adopted, withou
hazarding the loss of his crown, and perhaps o
his life. His degradation, and even his dca.h
would have been an useless lacrifice to honour ; I
would have caused France long and truitlefs re
Diorfe, but could not have saved it.
« The king then was not free ; his fanflion i
therefore null and in this cafe to disobey illufor
orders, is to give the strongest V d most courageou
proof of obedience and fidelity; it .. to lerve th
ical monarch, it is to serve God and our «un"y
---» Scarcely could this pretended alTent be credit
ed, if the king had proclaimed it aro.d<this (ami
jy, surrounded with his ancient and faithlul fer
vants, with all his military houihold, in fine, wit.
all the splendor of his forme, power. 1 hen th,
xcval aflent, though the occasion of so much ruin
would nevertheless havebeen recognizee as jult, a
lead reputed free; then we might have condemne,
the.error Of the prince, but (hould not have wep
ever his chains; then the fa ft would have been in
conteftible, we could only have d'<"P uteil th = n 6 l '
» In fact, even if the king had enjoyea tul
pofl'effion of his liberty, would he have hacl th,
light to fanftion laws contrary to the tundam.nta
laws of the kingdom ? Could he, Irom a miftaker
generosity, and in the expedition of a'
calm, havefacrificed, along with h.mfelt, his fa
milv, his successors, the true haps inefs of the peo
pie, generations present and to come ' Could h,
£ ive a valid approbation to the pretended constitu
tion, which has occasioned so many misfortunes i
Pofleflor for life of the throne which he receiver
from his ancestors, could the king, in alienatin t
his primordial rights, destroy the constitutive bafn
on which it is founded ? B-irn defender of the re
]ißion of the state, could he consent to what tend!
to its ruin, and abandon its ministers to wretched
ness and disgrace ? bound to admmifte.r juft.ee to
his fubjefts, could Ue tcnaunce the funaion, cl-
fential'y royal, of ciufing it to be admi n»fteied by
tribunals loyally constituted, and of lupei intending
himfelf the administration ? Protedtorot the rights
of all the orders, and ot the pofiellions of individu
a s j could he fandtion the invaii.m of the one,
and the violacionof the other ? Father of his ped
ple, could he abandon them to dilorder and anar
chy ? In line, could he highly approve o! what
realon and juttice condemn, and eternize the mif
fortunes of France ?
* 4 And what is this Constitution, which they
pretend to give us, except a m >nfter deltiudtiveof
laws human and oivine j a worK ol offence and in
iquity : null, from the vice of the convocation of
the members of the aliembly, styling ihenrifeives
conrtitutivc ; null from the combination of the
deliberating body, a combination lubverfive of the
fir It balls of the itate, the dittindfcion of orders ;
null from the principles which it ertablillies, lince
they overturn the throne and the altar, and tend
to replunge men into barbarism by appearing to
bring them back to Nature j null from its confe
rences, dreadful consequences, of which experi
ence already presents a too faithful catalogue in
the dHorder of the finances, in the scarcity of mo
ney, in the stagnation of commerce, in the want
of discipline amongthe troops, in the inactivity ot
the tribunals, the lilence of the laws, the tyranny
of the fadtious, and the oppreflion of the rich; in
one word, the triumph of licentiousness over true
liberty ?
" lc would be useless to accumulate reasoning;
truth is too linking ; and fadts already speak lb
loudly, that the consequence cannot be denied,
without a species of felf-deception. The king
then had no right to landtion such a constitution,
of which his fandtion, already null by the defedt
of freedom, is null likewise by the defedt of right.
Ah ! when vidtorious over the Gauls the
firft Franks afl'embled in the Champ-de-Mars,
raised Pharamond on the (hield j when their war
like voices exclaimed—" Reign oyer us, and let
your descendants reign over our children," —they
were far from foreleeing, that at the end of four
teen ages a generation would come, whose madnels
woulo destroy the work of wisdom and of valour !
When Philip the Fair, reviving the rights of the
people, that had been disregarded under indolent
monarchs, summoned to the states general the de
puties or"the third estate, and placed them along
cvith the peers of his realm, he did not fulpect
that one day this ungrateful order would overturn
the two others, would deck ambitious tribunes
with the fpoi'ls of Supreme power, and leave only
the phantom of a king on the throne of Charle
magne.
44 No, it shall not be so : no, the French mo
narchy fhailnot perith* And lince motives which
it is impoflible for us to perceive, but which car
originate only from the violence and conftrainl
which, by being disguised, are only more cruel,
force Louis XVI. to lubferibe an acceptance which
bis heart rejedts, which his own interest and thai
>f" his people condemn, and which his duly as
;xprcfsly prohibits :
" We proieft in the face of the whole world
and in the mo'.t lolemn manner, againlt this illu
sive adt, and all that may follow from it. Wt
iiave /hewn that it is null of itfelf, null by deftdl
A liberty, null from the radical vice of all tn<
operations of the usurping afiembiy, which no
being an afiembiy of the states general, is nothing,
We are Supported by the rights of the whole na
tion, in rejedting decrees diametrically oppolite t(
tlieir willies, exprefied by the unanimous t-enor o
inftrudtions to their reprefentacives ; and we difa-
VUW, on bchaif of the nation, thole treacherou:
mandatories, who, in violating their orders, anc
departing from the miflion entrusted to them 5
caafed to be its representatives. We will maintaii
what is evident, that having adted contrary to theii
title, they have adted without power, and wha
they could not legally do, cannot be validly ac
cepted.
" We protest for the king, and in his name
against what can only bear its faile imprefiion
His voice being ftifled by oppreflion, we will b.
its necefiary organs ; and we exprels his real len
timents as they exiftin the oath of his acceifion t<
the throne, as they have appeared in the action
of his whole life, as they have been displayed in th<
declaration which he made at the firft moment tha
he believed himfelf free. He neither can no:
ought to have any other, and his will exists only
in those adts where it breathes freely.
" We protest for the people, who, in their de
lirium, cannot perceive how deftrudtive this phan
tom of a new constitution, which is made to daz
zle their eyes, and before which they are vainly
made to swear, must become to them. W'her.
these people, neither knowing their lawful chief,
nor their dearest interests, fuffer themfeives to be
misguided to their deftrudtion j when blinded by
decitful promiles, they lee not thole who cxcite
them to'deftroy the pledges of their own fecun
ty, the fupportersof their repose, the principles ol
their subsistence, and all the ties of their civil as
sociation j it becomes necefiary to claim for then;
the re-eltablifliment of all thele ; it becomes ne<
cefiary to lave them from their own frenzy.
" We protest for the religion of our fathers,
which is attacked in its dogmas and worfliip, a;
well as its ministers j and in order to Supply the
monarch's want ot power at prelent to discharge
in his own perlon his duties as eldest son ot the
church, we afiume in his name the defence of its
rights j we oppose those invasions of its property
which tend to degrade it ; we rife with indigna
tion against adts which menace the kingdom with
the horrors of schism ; and we loudly proteSs our
unalterable attachment to the ecclesiastical rules
admitted in the dates, the obfervaace ol which he
has sworn to maintAi.
We protest for the fundamental maxims ol
the monarchy, from which the king is not per
mitted to depart ; which the nation itfelf has de
clared to be inviolable ; and which would be to
tally revelled by the decrees which abolilh royal
ty itfelf; by ' fupprefiing all the intermediate
ranks; by those which deprive monarchy of the
fundtions most efiential to monarchical govern
ment.
44 In fine, we protest in the presence of the Su
preme Being, and in the name of eternal justice,
for all orders of the state, and lor all Frenchmen.
44 This protest, signed along with us by all the
princes of tke blood who arc c cane died with ir 5 *
is common to all the house of Bourb..*, on wh- ffl
cnrir eventual rights to the crown nnjioic ftn> if
IV of" defending the august depolit.
fSi-'neuJ LoniS'Stanislaus-Xavar 9
Charles-Philip pe t
L. Joseph de Lourbon,
Louis-lienri Jos. de Bourbon,
L. A. H. de Bourbon."
Coblentz, Otfober S, 1791.
From the American Daily Advertiser.
C A I U S, No. li.
[For Ca lus No. 1. See cur paper of the iCthirf
IT was the advice or I'.ic celebrated Mirabeat
to the people of America, 44 that if they wilh
ed to preserve their liberties, they fhouid avoid
European fvftems of finance, and above all, never
to fund their public debt A caution, which,
it fhouid leem, that observer had col
lected from the,-deepeft reflection on human ar
r.iirs, since the hiltory of every nation, on which
the experiment has been made, fully proves, that
a funded debt never vet decreased, but, on the
contrary, alwavs accumulated, and this accumu
lation was in exadt ratio to the oppreiVi >n of the
people and to the degree in which the government
receded from the principles of fieedom, and ad
vanced towards tyranny and despotism. If it be
refledted too, according to the axiom of Publius.
u that the exigencies of a nation are at ail timet,
equal to its resources," the conlequences before
stated must be admitted as inevitable, an-J the 1)<-
tem of funding may be regarded as the true fcciet
for rendering public debt (not public credit) im
mortal "f". As a source cf corruption, too, its
consequences are wot leis apparent : a lundeii
debt necelTarily begets a monied interest, difiinci
from the great body of the people, and whilst ei
ther the ordinary or extraordinary exigences of the
nations, place the prolpedt of a redemption of the
principal of the debt as a remote contingency, the
fu' port of its artificial credit must be maintained,
and those capitalists or holders thereof, who,
from this diftindt monied interest of the commu
nity, never fail to afiociate and interweave thei 1
principles with those of the body politic, whole
demand on the people for new resources will be
always in proportion to its sympathy with the mo
nied interelt, which has been so I
t:d by the fame Publius, 4 the foul of a nation.
But the expence of the United States is unequi
vocal to the truth of my poficionsj and 110 inge
nious sophistry in the elaborate tres»t:fes of th<
financial minilter, —no exaggerated and fallacious
ideas that the recent revolution in the public cre
dit of the nation, is the efted of the present fvl
tems of finance, can destroy the force of thole
plain and stubborn fads, which prove that the
funding fyliem has already produced confluence!
the most pernicious and alarming, kittle
can be entertained, that the public faith mighi
have been equaliv prcferved by pursuing the plair
and honest policy of discharging the principal o
the public debt, as far and as fact as the adtua
and encreafing resources of the country woulc
permit, and by the punctual payment of the annu
al interest, leaving it to the free discretion of th«
biennial legislature, to apply those resources fronr
tifne to time, according to the real circumstance
and ability of the nation, without a recurrence t<
intricate and complex fyitems, founded on princi
ples wholly irrelative to the filuation, feelings 01
interest of the people, and from which it has re
lulted tha r . the present public debt has been real
ized, and I may add, perpetuated to an immenif
amount, far beyond thejuft and reasonable expec
tations of the public j has been mojeover uevi
modelled, and by the aexterous contrivance of fil
cal operations, made to change hands from th<
poffeflion of the honest and industrious citizen, tc
that of the deligning, artful speculator, to whoa
it is now secured as a species of real inheritance
by its quality of irredeemability and a mortgagi
for years of the belt funds of the nation.—
Lefsisittobe doubted that the great influx o
money, and with it the riling credit of our coun
try for the last three years, has been principal!;
occasioned by those necefiities of the Europeai
nations, which produced a great encreafed de
mand for our produce, ano by the operation o
the impost, tonnage and excise laws of Congrels
which brought into the coffers of the general gov
ernment, the whole commercial revenue of tiv
United States. On the other hand, the banefu
spirit of speculation created by the funding fyltem
which has so lhamefully contaminated the moral
of the people, and is now infufing its fubile poifoi
into the fountains of government, producing .
dereliction of the fir ft principles of the conftitu
tion, and the substitution of maxims as novel a.
they are repugnant and hostile to the liberties 01
the people, is a truth too ierious to be concealed oj
denied.
Be warned, therefore, my countrymen ; and le
your attention be turned ere it be too late to pre
vent the farther progrejs of the measures to whicl
I have pointed in my late and present addiels
F.xpedi fiiortly upon the true Machiavelian prin
ciples of the minister, to fee a proportion for ad
ding to the present debt of the union by way o
farther afjumption, ten or fifteen million of dollar,
more, which, if permitted, will immoveably t»
the millstone of public debt around your necks
and perpetuate opprefiion to your remote!* genera
tions. Be not deceived •. examine and decide 101
you rfelves : let not the voice of faction on the on<
hand, nor the intererted suggestions of men, min
isterial sycophants on the other mislead you,
Motives are Deft known to those that feel them
mine will be judged of in the result : falfe pro
feflions belong only to a bad caule. Alike inimi
cal to the views of party or of faction, it is onl;
for the preservation of the republican principle
of government on which the constitution is pil
lared, that 1 am anxious j and so long as these an
in danger of fubverlion from the infiduous polic;
of any ministerial tneafures, so long will my en
deavours be pointed to warn my countrymen theie
of; and by freely exposing the principles and ef
fedt of such measures, contribute my mite of in
formation to the public mind. In this view, ano
ther occasion will be taken to ihew, not only tha
a systematic attack is commenced against thi
very existence of republican principles amongst us
by measures which go to convcrt the body of Con-
giwTs i»v o placemen and pensioners, and resolve a.,
power ii»c> their mere discretion, but moreover tliic
,ae tiiect of luch an airack if fuccefsful, will be
r<> eivct a deteltable arifiocracy or monarchy on trie
rums of ie.»ubljcanilm and the independence of
our ecuntry. C A 1 U S.
•J* S e Kec r etary Hamilton's report to Congrel*
o • fundirg the public debt, page 19 in which he
discovers tne lecret lor rendering fublic credit ixn
mortal.
— 1 ■* - ■■■' ■ ■■■ * - ■ -til
From a late London Paper,
REVOLUTION.
They who affelt to praise the revolution in Po
land, while they declaim againlt the revolution 112
F ance, furnifh one of the ilrongeft arguments ti»
the ad vocates of reform in this, and every other
country.
The abuses, corruptions, or radical defers of
any government may be reformed, without tu
mult or violation of private property, if firmly and
honestly attempted by those who arc entrurted
with the administration of it, before they become
too grievous for the people to bear.
Such was the reform of the government of Po
land j and such is the reform which every lioneit
man would recommend.
Ifthe abuses of any government arc fuffered to
accumulate till they become intolerable—if thole
who are entrusted with the adminiltration appear
anxious to perpetuate, instead of correcting them,
the people wiil sooner or later refill, and take the
buiinefs of reform into their own hands j and the
inevitab'e consequences will be a hidden and vio
lent diflolution of the old system, much public dis
order, and much private injury, before another
can be eflabl shed.
Such was the levolution in France, and fuck
were its neceflaiy conferences.
All, therefore, who deprecate such consequences,
instead of exclaiming againlt innovation, and cling
ing fait to exirting abuses, ought to unite with
firmnefs and moderation in tne temperate and
timely reform of whatever is deie&ive, and a vigi
lant attention to preserve what is lound in their
present form of government $ fur nothing can be
more certain, than that the decay of the parts will
bring on the diflolution of the whole, and that
grievances unredielfed will beget reliltance.
ROBERT SMOCK,
Woollen Draper <5 Mercer,
Has just received by the fh'ip Pigou, from
and for Jale at bis Store, on the north eoji cornsr
of Market and Third Jireets, Phi ade>pbia,
AN ELEGANT ASSORTMENT OF
SUPERFINE and super in almost
every colour.
Ladies fuperfine habit cloths, in the most fafhion
able colours.
Superfine callimers, do.
Do. and super elastic ftrlped cloths.
Milled drabs and hunters cloths.
A variety of fancy waiftcoating, in f<lk, /ilk and
cotton, silk moleskin, callimers printed and
tamboured, and fuperfine striped Spanifli toili
nets.
Mens black fattins, florentines, anJ silk prunellas
of superior quaiites
Silk, silk and cotton, cotton and worsted hose,
afiorted.
Sattins andmantuas, a beautiful variety.
bupertine rattinets, with a large collection ofbeft»
trimmings for cloths, &c. of every quality.
Moreens, joans spinning, durants and caiurian
coes.
Hairbines and camblcts, See.
)-S wide fuperline Marseilles quilting with bor
ders.
Marseilles bedquilts and cotton counterpanes, 9-4
to 12-4.
Flanders bedbunts and bedtickings.
A beautiful variety of chintzes and cottons.
An elegant aflbrtment of yard wide furniture
chintzes, in beautiful colours and patterns,
with a large variety of furniture cottons.
Velveteens, velvets, corduroys, thicksets, fancy
cords, llockinets, royal ribs, fattinets, hair
plushes, &c. &c.
Striped and grey, twilled and plain Bath coatings.
Rose blankets aflorted.
ROBERT SMOCK has also for Sale, a great
Variety of GOODS of the belt quality in their
leveral kinds. He presumes it is unnccefiary to
:>e more particular in the enumeration, and that
t is fufficient to fay the aflbrtment is very gene
al and exlenfjve, confuting of almost every arti
:le in his line of business. —Being desirous of giv
ng entire fatifcfa&ion to those who may be pleated
o favour him with their custom, as well
is ct meriting a continuance of those cuf
omers, whose favours he has hitherto cxperien
ed, he flatters himfelf the cheapness of his Good*
A'ill be the best means of effecting his wiflies.
WANTED immediately, a JOUR'
NEYMAN BOOK-BINDER,
ogo to Lancajier. Enquire of Francis
3ailey, printer, No. 116, High-Street.
This Day are publijhed,
SERMONS,
Historical and Chara&eriftical :
By WILLIAM LINN, D. D.
~)ne of the Minijlers of the Reformed Prottflant
Dutch Church, in the city of.Nezo-Yorh.
>old by T. DOBSON, R. CAMPBELL, 3
M. CAREY.
[Price Three Quarters of a Dollar.']
printed by
CHILDS and SWAINE,
iT THEIR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIG H-ST* EE T»
lAR SIxTH-STREST,
THILADELfHIA«