Vol. I.
Treasury Department, March 16, 179 3 -
THE Secretary of the Treasury, purfuam
to a Resolution of the House of Represen
tatives of the Bth infant, directing thi
said Secretary to report to the House hi.
opinion of the bejl mode of raising the ad
ditional'/applies requifitefor the enfuhv
year, refpeEtfully submits the following
report.
THE sum which is estimated to be
necessary for carrying into effeel
the purposes of the act for making fui
ther and more effectual provision foi
the protection of the frontiers of the
United States beyond the provifior
made by the act making appropriation:
for the support of government for the
year 1792 is,
Dollars 675,950.8
The returns which have been receiv
ed at the Treasury subsequent to the
' Secretary's report of the 23d of Janua
ry lad, among which are thole of fomc
principal ports, afford iatisfactory
ground of assurance, that the quartet
ending the last of December was confi
derabiy more productive than it was
supposed likely to prove; authoiizing
a reliance that the revenues to the end
of the year >791 will yield a surplus of
150.000 dollars —which may be applied
in part of the sum of 675,950 dollars
and eight cents above Rated to be ne
cessary.
Provision remains to be made for the
residue of this sum, namely, 5 2 5>95 c
Dollars and 8 cents.
Three expedients occur to the optior
of the government for providing thi:
sum.
One, to dispose of the intercfl, tc
which the United Mates are cmnled ir
the Bank of the United States. This
at the present market price of Bank
stock, would yield a clear gain to the
government much more than adequate
to the sum required.
Another, to borrow the money upor
an eftabiifhment of funds, either mercl)
commensurate with the interest to be
paid, or affording a surplus which wil
difchargc the principal by inftallmcnt:
within a short term.
The third is to raise the amount b)
taxes.
The fir ft of these three expedient!
appears to the Secretary altogethei
unadvifeable.
Firfl. —It is his present opinion, thai
it will be found, in various respects.
permanently the interest of the Unitec
States to retain the interest to which
they are entitled in the Bank. But
Secondly —If this opinion should not
be well founded, it would be improvi
dent to dispose of it at the present junc
ture since upon a comprehensive view
of the subject, it can hardly admit of a
doubt, that its future value, at a period
net very distant, will be confielerably
greater than its prefent —while the go
vernment will enjoy the benefit 01
whatever dividends shall be declared
in the interval. And
Thirdly—Whether it shall be deemed
proper to retain or dispose of this inte
reft| the mofl ufeful application of the
proceeds will be as a fund for extin
guishing the public debt. A neccihty
of applying it to any different object, if
it should be found to exist, would be
matter of fcrious regret.
The second expedient would, in the
judgment of the Secretary, be prefera
ble to the firft.
For this the following reason, if there
were no other, is presumed to be con
clusive :—namely, that the probable in
crease of the value of the flock may it
felf be estimated as a considerable, if
not a fufficient fund, for the repayment
of the sum which might be borrowed.
If the measure of a loan should be
thought eligible, it is submitted as most
adviieable to accompany it with a pro
vision, fufficient not only to pay the in
terest, but to discharge the principal
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhed. Mondays cin Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
THURSDAY, March 22, 1792.
within a short period. This will, a:
least, mitigate the inconvenience of ma
king an addition to the public debt.
But the result of" mature reflefition is,
in the mind of the Secretary, a strong
"onviftion, that the lad of the three ex
pedients, which have been mentioned,
is to be preferred to either of the other
two.
Nothing can more interest the nati
onal credit and prosperity, than a con
stant and systematic attention to hus
band all the means previously potTeffed
for cxtinguifhing the present debt, and
to avoid, as much as pofiible, the in
curring of any new debt.
Necessity alone therefore can juftify
the application of anv of the public
property, other than the annual reve
nues, to the current service, or the
xmporary and casual exigences or the
:ountry —or the contra&ing of an ad
ditional debt, by loans, to provide for
hose exigences.
Great emergencies indeed might exist
n which loans would be indifpenfible.
3ut the occasions which will juftify
hem mull be truly of that description.
The present is not of luch a nature.
The sum to be provided is not of mag
nitude enough to furnifli the plea of
necessity.
Taxes are never welcome to a com
munity. They feldoin fail to excite
uneasy sensations more or less extensive;
hence a too strong propensity, in the
governments of nations, to anticipate
and mortgage the resources of posterity,
rather than encounter the inconvcni
ences of a present increase of taxes.
But this polity, when not di&ated
by very peculiar circumstances, is of
rtrtr worst kxnd. Its obvious tendency
is, by enhancing the permanent bur
dens of the people, to produce lasting
distress, and its natural issue is in nati
onal bankruptcy.
It will be happy, if the councils of
this country, fanitioned by the voice of
an enlightened community, shall be a
ble to pursue a different course.
Yielding to this impression, the Se
cretary proceeds to state for the consid
eration of the House the objects, which
have occurred to him as moll proper to
be refortcd to, for railing the requi'ite
sum by taxes.
From the mod careful view, which
he is able to take of all the circum
stances, that at the present juncture na
turally enter into confederation, he is
led to conclude, that the most eligible
mode, in which the ncceffary provision
can at this time be made, is by some ad
ditional duties on imported articles.
This conclusion is made with reluc
tance, for reasons which were noticed
upon a former occalion, and from the
reflection, that frequent and unexpected
alterations in the rates of duties, on the
objects of trade, by inducing uncertain
ty in mercantile speculations and calcu
lations, are really injurious to com
merce and hurtful to the interests of
those who carry it on.
The stability of the duties to be paid
by the merchants, is in faftof more con
sequence to them than their quantum ;
if within reasonable bounds.
It were therefore much to have been
wished, that so early a resort to new de
mands on that class of citizens could
have been avoided, and especially that
they could have been deferred, until a
general tariff could have been mature
ly digested, upon principles which
might, with propriety render it ellenti
ally stationary.
But while there arc these motives to
regret, there are others of a consoling
tendency ; some of which indicate, that
an augmentation of duties, at the pre
sent jun&ure, may have the effect of
lessening some public evils, arid produc
ing some public benefits.
It is a pleasing fact, if the informa
tion of the Secretary be not very erro
neous—that the improved state of the
credit oT this country enables our mer
chants to procure the supplies, which
thty import from abroad, upon much
mere cheap, and advantageous terms
thrn heretofore ; a eircumftance which
mwl alleviate to them the pressure of
so ewhat higher rates i f duty ; and
mi. contribute at the -fame time to re
cc ;i!e them to burthens, which being
coi.rie&ed with an efficacious difr'i; i
of'she duty-os the government, are ci
a nature to give solidity and permanen
cy to the advantages they enjoy undei
it.
It is certain, also, that a spirit of ma
nrfaEluring prevails at this time, in e
greater degree, than it has done at an)
antecedent period: and as far as an in
crejfc of duties {hall tend to second aric
aid this spirit, they will serve to pro
mi :e elfentially the induftr-y, the
Wu .ith, the strength, the independence
and the fubflantial prosperity of the
country.
The returns for a year, ending with
tht. 30th of September last, an abftra£l
of which is in preparation to be com
municated to the Legillature, evince :
incrqafed importation, during thai
year, greater far than can be rcterrec
to > naturally increafmg demand, frorr
Lh l ? progress of population, and an
nouncc a probability of a more thar
proportional increase of consumption
tl'ere being 110 appearance of an extra
ordinary abundance of goods in th<
m rket. If happily an extension of th(
di ties shall operate as a restraint upon
exccffive consumption, it will be a la
In ai-y mean of preserving the commu
n; y from future embarraffinent, publi<
ai 1 private." Bits if this fhoulel not be
ifc, Caic, 1 l is at prudcr.t in go
vernment, to extract from it the refour
ces necelfary for current exigences, ra
ther than poftponc the burthen to a pe
tiod, when that very circumflance ma)
cause it to be more grievously felt.
These different considerations unite
with others, which will fuggefl them
selves, to induce, in the prelcnt state o
things, a preference of taxes on import
ed articles to any other mode of raisins
the sum required.
It is therefore refpcftfully submitted
That the exifling duties on the arti
cles hereafter enumerated, be repealed
and that in place of them the following
be laid viz.
WINES. Cents
Madeira of quality of London
particular, - per gallon, 5<
Ditto London market per ditto
Other Madeira wine per ditto 4c
Sherry - per ditto 3;
St. Lucar - per ditto 3c
Lisbon - - per ditto 2;
Oporto - - per ditto 2;
Teneriffe and Faya'il per ditto £e
All
centum ad valorem.
SPIRITS.
Thofediftillcd wholly
or chiefly from
grain
Of the firft class of
proof per ditto eS
Of the second per ditto 2c
Of the third ditto per ditto 31
Of the fourth ditto per ditto 3/
Of the fifth ditto per ditto 4c
Of the sixth ditto per ditto 5c
OTHER DISTILLED SPIRITS.
Of the second class of
proof and under per gallon, 24
Of the third ditto per ditto 27
Of the fourth ditto per ditto 31
Of the fifth ditto per ditto 37
Of the sixth ditto per ditto 45
Eeer, ale and porter per gallon "
Steel - - per cwt. icc
Nails - - per lb. 2
Cocoa - - per ditto 2
Chocolate - per ditto 2
Playing-cards per pack £5
Shoes and flippers of
silk 20
Numb. 42.
Shoes and flippers of stained or Cents
coloured leather (other than
black) for men and women 10
Ditto ditto for children - 7
All other shoes and flippers
(for men and women) clogs
and golofhoes 10
All other shoes and flippers for
children 7
ARTICLES AD VALOREM.
China wares
Looking glass, window and other
glass, and all manufactures of -a
glass, black (]uart bottles ex- -1
ceptcd S
Muskets £■
Piltols \ |
Swords, cutlafles, hangers, and os»
ther fire and fide arms
Starch
Hair powder °
Wafers 3
Lilue J '
3aft, flit and rolled iron, and gen-~
erally all manufa&urcs of iron,
steel, tin, pewter, copper, brass,
or of which eitherof these metals
is the article of chief value (not*
beingotherwife particularly enu
merated)
Cabinet wares
Leather tanned and tawed, and all
manufactures of leather, or of
which leather is the article of
chief value (not being otherwise
particularly enumerated)
Medicinal drugs, c xcept those com
monly used in dying
Flats, caps, and bonnets of every
fort
Sloves and mittens i
Mork ; ngs„ , I . ©
Millenary ready made ""g
Artificial flowers, feathers and o-
ther ornaments forwomens' head g
dresses
Fans r cL
Dolls, dressed and undressed <
rp
Toys -
Buttons of every kind
Carpets and carpeting, mats and 3
floor cloths
Sail cloth
Sheathing and cartridge paper
All powders, pastes, balls, balsams,
ointments, oils, waters, waflies,
tin&ures, elfences, liquors or o
ther preparation or composition,
commonly called fweet-fcenls, 0-
dours, perfumes, or ccfmctics
All dentifrice, powders, tindures,
preparations or compositions
whatfoeyer for the teeth or gums
Printed books, cxcept those speci
ally imported for a college, aca
demy or other public or incor
porated seminary of learning or
institution, which shall be whol
ly exempted from duty
The foregoing duties to be perma
nently established, and to be appropri
ated iri thefirft place to the payment of
the interest of the public debt; in the
second, lo such other grants and appro
priations as have been heretofore made;
and in the third, to the purposes of the
ast for making further and more effectu
al provision for the protection of the
frontiers of the United States.
An addition of two and an half per
rent.[ad valorem, to be made to the dutv
miall goods heretofore rated at five per
centum ad valorem.
This addition to be temporary, and
iccordingly to be so established as that
it shall net continue longer, than till
he present Indian war shall terminate,
ind the expences of carrying it on shall
lave been defrayed, which v/ill of
ourfe include the reimburfemcnt of
my sums, that may have been borrowed
jy way of anticipation of the product o£
:he duties.
It is raprefented that the present du
ty on fait operates unequally from ths
::onfiderable difference in weight ia
[See hjl page-)PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Saturday, March 17.
Mr. Speaker laid before the House a report
from the Secretary of the Treasury, on the pe
nt cn ot the trudees of Wilmington college,
and a report from the attorney-general, on the
petition of A. Jacklon —which were read and
ordered to lie on the table—as also another from
the Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to
a resolution, parted on the Bth inllant, diretting
him to report to the house the Ways and Means,
by which, in his opinion, the additional funis
necelfary for the public service, ought to be
railed.
A motion, laid on the table by Mr. William
fon, on the 6th inl). being called up and agreed
to, a committee was pursuant thereto appointed,
to bring in a bill to amend the impoll law, so fai
as to permit the landing of lalt at certain ware
houles belonging to the filheries, and to providi
■for an allowance of a drawback of the duties 01
fait uled on provisions exported.
The House then took up for consideration th
amendments propoftd by the Senate to the re
presentation bill.
The firft amendment, by which the Senate
propose, without any fixed ratio applicable tc
the respective number of inhabitants in each o
the feveralilales, to incrcafe.the reprefentatioi
from 112 members (the ritm'iber fettled by thi
house, at the ratio of one for every thntv thou
sand) to 120, by the addiiion of one member t(
each of the following dates, viz. N. Hampshire
Malfachufetts, Vermont, Connecticut, N. Jer
sey, Delaware, N. Carolina, and S. Carolina
was productive of a warm debate, in which ;
•hlfoiution of the government was talked of a
an event in no very diltant perfpeftive, in cafi
the House iliould, in compliance with the view
of the Senate, adopt a mode of apportionment
so arbitrary, and so direfctly t nding to dedro;
the individuality of the Hates, and to fwallov
them all up ill a general consolidation.
The quedion being finally taken on concur'
ring with the Senate, pafl'ed in the negative-
Yeas 30— Kays 31. —
YEAS— Mell. Asnes, Benfon, Boudinot, S
Bourne, B. Bourne, Clarke, Fitzfimons, Gerry
Gilman, Goodhue, Gordon, Hartly, Jacobs
Kitchell, Kittera, Laurance, Learned, Livermort
Niles, Schoonmaker, Sedgwick, J. Smith, I
Smith, Steele, Sylveiler, Thatcher, Tredwell
Vining, Wadfwoith, Ward.
NAYS.—MeII. Alhe, Baldwin, Barnwell
Brown, Findley, Giles, Gregg, Giiffi , Groves
Heider, Hillhoufe, Huger, Key, Lee, Macon
Madison, Mercer, Moore, Muhlenberg, Page,
Parker, Seney, W. Smith, Sterret, Stuiges
Sumpter, 1 ucker, Venable, White, Wiiliamfon
Willis.
The other amendments being also disagreed t<
—Mr. W. Smith moved for the appointmen
of a committee, to confer with (uch committei
as the Senate might appoint, to consider laic
amendments. The motion being agreed to
MelT. Madison, Findley, Baldwin, Hillhoufe
and W. Smith, were appointed for that purpose
A motion was laid on the table for the ap
pointment of a committee, to bring in a bill, tc
confirm the award ot the referrees between the
United States and Comfort Sands and others.
Monday, March 19.
Among a variety of private petitions, whicl
were pa tented and read, was one from Capt
John M'Pherfon, letting forth, that he has di 1
covered an infallible method ot alcertaining th<
longitude to a degree of precision far beyond Mr
Churchman's preter.fions; and requeding Con-
for the purpose of enabling him to provi
Ins theory by experiments, will fend him out
in the character of a gentleman, on a voyage tc
France, with proper recommendations to theii
good ally the king of the Fiench —Ordered tc
he on the table.
The petition of Cornelius Cooper, of New-
York, praying for a repeal of so much of tht
impost law, as relates to bridles, and the impo
fiiionof an additional duty on the iinportat.or
cf trunks and brulhes—was referred to the com
mittee of the whole house on the report from
the Secretary of the Treasury on manufactures.
A message from the President of the United
States was delivered by Mr. Secretary Lear, no
tifying the Houle, that he had this day appro
ved and signed, "An ast declaring the confenl
of Congrels to a certain act of the (late of Mary
land, and to continue for a longer time, an afl
declaring the allent of Congress to certain a£ts ol
the fh;tc-s of Maryland, Georgia, and Rhode-
Idand and Providence Plantations," as far as the
lame rel'pects the dates of Georgia and Rhode
lfiand and Providence Plantations.
A medage from the Senate, was delivered by
Mr. Secretary Otis, notifying that they had
agreed to the proposed conference on the fubjefl
of the disagreeing amendments of both houses,
to the reprelentative bill, and had, on their part,
appointed managers; also, that they infided on
luw, Mid had receded from others of their
xmendmeiifs (o t\ie bill for the relief of certain
widows, orphans, invalids, and other per lons
and also that they had paired a bill for the erec
tion-os a light-house on Moutauk-Point in the
ifjte o \ :w-Yoik, to which they rcquefted the
concurrence of the House.
Mr. Otis delivered a second message, notify
ing that the Senate had, with amendments, patf
cd a bill (tent to theai fioui the House) pro-
L
/iding forthe settlement oftht claims of person:
mder particular ciicumftances, barred by tb(
imitations heretofore eftabli(lied.
The o'derof the day of the Georgia eleflicr
jeing called for,
Mr. W. Smith withdrew the motion he hac
made oil Friday lad, for transmitting to the ex
cutive of Georgia a copy of the resolution re
setting Gen. Wayne's eleflion and in liei
ihereof, ptopofed one to the following effefl:
" Resolved, That the feat of Anthony Wayne,
is a member of this house is, and the fame 1;
tereby declared to be vacant. —Ordered that the
Speaker do transmit a copy of the preceding re
flation, and of this order, to the executive ol
he ft ite of Georgia, to the end, that the said
xecutive may ifiue writs of eleflion to fill the
aid vacancy."
Mr. Giles (with the consent of Mr. Smith,
vho waved his motion for the purpose) moved
he following resolution :—
" Resolved that the petitioner, James Jack
on, is entitled to a feat in this Hou e, as a mem
>er for the lower diftrifl of the Hate of Georgia ;
tnd that the right ot petitioning against the elec
ion of the said J. jackfon, be reserved to all
jerlons, at anytime during the term for which
le was clefled."
A lengthy debate took place, refpefling the
ight of the Houle to pronounce a decision oil
3-en. Jackson's eleflion ; —and how far the ille
gality of one part of an eleflion may operate to
he invalidation of the whole.
Without taking the question, the Iloufe ad
ourned.
Tuesday, March 20.
A bill received yesterday from the Senate,
or the ereflion of a light-house on Montauk-
Point, in the (late of New-York, was twice read,
referred to a committee of the whole, and mad?
.he order ol the day for to-morrow.
The amendments, proposed by the Senate to
he bill providing for the settlement of the claims
)f persons under particular circumstances, barred
jy the limitations heretofore established—were
igreed to, as were also their amendments to the
aill for the relief of certain widows, orphans, in
valids, and other persons.
A message from the President of the United
States was delivered by Mr. Secretary Lear,
Hating a deficiency of officers in the military, ol
:he rank of Brigadier-General, and fuggefliuo
:he propriety of making proviiion for an encreafe
of the number.
The order of the day, on the Georgia elec
tion, being called for, the following motion
was taken up:
" Resolved, that the petitioner, J. Jackson, i:
entitled to a feat in this House ; and that thi
right of petitioning against the eleflion of faic
J. Jackson, be reserved to all persons, at an)
time, during the term for which he may lave
beenelefled.
The fubjefl was debated until a late hour
when the House, without coming to a decision.
adjourned.
[From the Pittjburg Gazette of the \cthinjl.~]
On the INDIAN RIGHT of SOIL.
ByPHILO BrACKENRIDGE.
ON what is it founded ? Having had a foo
firft on the continent ?—Then one Indiar
might claim the whole—spend his winter in the
torrid zone —his summer in one or other of the
frigid, and spring and fall in the temperate. —
That would be unreasonable. Will two In
dians have this right ? There mull be more
than that. Two tribes? It would be too much
to take up the whole continent with two tribes
How many must there be to give the right ? Jufl
as many as there are. If there were one less,
wouldthey have the right? Yes. Two less ? Yes,
How many might there be less, and the right
exist ? I cannot tell —nor no one else. There
must be some fixed principle on which all right
depends. Under the great law of nature, it is
a right to as much as is neceflaiy for oat fub
fiftencc. By pasturage or hunting? No; by
agriculture. Because in this way of life moil
can subsist at the fame time.
But men by the municipal laws of society
hold more than an equal quantity. What has
this to do with the great out-wheel of natural
law, which gives the earth to man in common.
The municipal law binds as citizens; the law ol
nations as focicties ; but the law of nature a;
men. Say, as the number of inhabitants upor
the earth is to its extent, so the right of each in
dividual to his share. God gives a man no more
when he dies than space to lie down upon, and
bow, more in life than to enjoy real'onably ?
Let the appeal be made to him. Great Spirit ;
fays the Indian, here is a white man that wants
some of my land. How much have you ? Ten
miles square. The tenth of that may serve.—
To hunt upon ? No; but to plant corn, raise
hogs, and live like a man. But did "not you
Jive me all this ? I have given none of you
more than another. There is the earth, and the
dividing of a sea or river makes no partition. It
is true 1 do not permit the inhabitants of Jupiter
ar other planets to come down to your earth ;
ijut have placed a law of nature hinder it.
But on the fame planet, I know nothing of what
is called the right of the natives, beyond at mod
a right of preference to choose their ground, or
;o hold that which they already cultivate.
Will the United States permit emigrants to
fettle on the lands weft of the Ohio within their
boundaries? Not without purchasing. Why?
Becaule they have been at an expence in com
bating the falfe claim of ilia savages, aud ought
o_bs paid for it.
■ For tie NATIONAL GAZETTE.
BRUTUS, No. 111.
On the FUNDING SYSTEM.
WITH regard to the second enumera
ted evil arising from the fundinj
system, to wit, Its tendency to combim
the monied interest : Let'us advert to th<
national bank, one of its spurious offsprings
and we (hall perceive that it was intende(
by its author to combine the monied inter
eft, particularly the public creditors, int<
one body, to ast in concert and ensure luc
cess to the fifcal arrangements of the Trea
fury department; while its enormous capi
tal, its materials, and the various branche
which in time may spread from it, conspire
to prove that it is well calculated to an wei
the ends of its institution—and to convince
the oblerving, that it is a part of the farm
systematic pian of which the funding fyften
is the ground work, that has been formec
with so much pains, to iucreafe the influ
ence of the treasury, and the energy of the
government. Already we have seen feat;
in both brancjies of the legislature filled b)
the flockholders and directors of this pow
erful company ; already, also, we have seer
lucrative offices filled by members of thai
very legislature by which they were crea
sed ! And will it Itill be said there is no dan
ger fiom ministerial ichemes, when we noi
only fee taat they have a tendency to raif<
up partizans, by substituting motives of pri
vate interest in the room of public good :
but even to steal their influence into the
House of Representatives, the lacred repo
sitory of all the rights and prerogatives o:
the people.
- As under the funding system we have
seen an imaginary capital, of fifty millioi
dollars raift-d upon the mortgaged resource:
of the country, and thrown into the pos
session of wealthy speculators ; so by thi:
banking system, we have seen these public
creditors, erefled into a body politic, witl
exclusive privileges : nothing is now
wanting but to fee this assumed powei
of incorporating extended from public
creditors, to manufacturers and mer
chants, properly backed with the other as
sumed powers ofbeftowing bounties & ex
emptions ; and the deiires of the moll bittei
enemies to thelutle remaining importance
of the.state governments, will be compleat
ly gratified : for they will fee a consolida
ted energetic government supported by pub
lie creditors, speculators, members of these
several companies, and others receiving
bounties and exemptions, riling upon the
ruins of our free republics: they will alft
fee the people of the United States, whe
have hitherto been governed by maxims ant
principles laid down in their several confti
tutions, and bills of rights ;• and by mea
sures originating from the people anc
founded on their interelts; ruled by a com
plicated system of government, made up o:
delegated and conftruftive powers, un
guarded by a bill of rights, and by scheme
not originating from the people, but fron
the numerous partizans, enjoying bounties
and belonging to these respective compa
nies. Thus an alliance will be formed, be
tween the government, and these wealth;
public creditors and companies, of its owi
creating, cemented by reciprocal advanta
ges ; these receiving favours frcm the go
vernment, and the government, in return
their united support, in all it; abuses : ai
alliance which will derive all its advantage
from the wrongs of the people, and, like
the ancient alliance of church and state, de
rive its strength and wealth, by oppreflinj
the weak and the poor. These are not vi
sionary fi_ars, but apprehensions, juftifiec
by the fame effects produced from the fame
causes in other countries ; particularly ir
England, from whence all these schemes are
imported : jtiftified also by the conduct oi
the late ever memorable national allembly
who while they were yet l'marting urdei
their former opprefiions, and while the)
were recognizing the rights of the people
declared in their bill of rights '■ There i:
no longer for any individual or any part ol
the nation, any privilege or exception tc
the common right of all frenchmen ; there
is no longer wardenfhips or corporations oi
profeflions, arts, or crafts."
Wheal the importance of this incorpora
ting power is conlidered, and that the con
stitution is totally silent 011 the fuojeft 5 anc
when we are conlidering the extensive man
ner in which it was exercised at the crea
tion of the national bank ; the mind is agair
instinctively carried back to that period of
time, when the government ifluing fron:
the recess, in which it was framed, sudden
ly called the attentian of the people to con
lider it, and is led to compare the profef
lions of certain exalted characters at thai
time with their pra£tice since. And here
without alluding perfoually to any indivi
dual, let it be remembered, that in anfwei
to every objection made to the vague ternr
111 which it was couched, and to the wanl
of a bill of rights, the reiterated anfwei
was. Ko powers can be exercised but theft
expressly granted, because they remain
with the rel'peftive states. Yet in the short
space of two years, in the very firft legisla
ture, and while their hackneyed arguments
to fucb fortiibk were still vibra
ting on our ears, these men came forward
in contradiction to their own avowed sen
timents, and the terms of the constitution,
and exercised the aflumed power of crea
ting banks and incorporating public credi
tors. Should the people by inattention
"eem to sanction the conduct of men whose
t>rofeffions to obtain one end, so flagrantly
:ontraditt their practice to obtain another,
the great tie which connects the people to
the representative body will be broken ; and
representation, which has been justly conii
tiered as the best security and foundation of
liberty, will be rendered nugatory.
BRUTUS.
Philadelphia, March 19, 1792.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
FASHION.
AN humble address has been lately pre
sented to the Prince of Wales £>y the
suckle manufacturers of Bir
mingham, WalTal, Wolverhampton, and
their environs, dating that the BUCKLE
TRADE gives employment to more than
r WENT If THOUSAND persons, num
bers of whom, in consequence of the pre
''aiiingfalhion of SHOESTRINGS & SLIP
PERS, are at present without employ, al
tnoft destitute of bread, and exposed to the
lorrors of want at the most inclement fea
on; that to the manufactures of BUC
KLES and BUTTONS, Birmingham owej
ts important figure on the map of England;
thftit is to no purpose to address FASHION
lierfelf, she being void of feeling and deaf
to argument, but fortunately accustomed
to listen to his voice, and to obey his com
mands : and finally, imploring his Royal
Highness to conlider the deplorable condi
tion of their trade, which is in danger of
being ruined by the mutability of fajhion, and
to give tUat direction to 'the public tajle,
which will insure the lasting gratitude of
the petitioners.
Several important reflections are suggest
ed by this address.
I. The molt precarious of all occupations
which give bread to the industrious, are
those depending on mere fafliion, which ge
nerally changes so suddenly, and often so
considerably, as to throw whole bodies of
people out of employment.
11. Of all occupations those are the least
deiirable in a free state, which produce the
most servile dependence of one class of citi
zens on another class. This dependence
must increase as the mutuality of wants is di
minished. Where the wants on one fide
are the absolute neceflaries; and on the
other are neither absolute neceflaries, nor
result from the habitual ceconomy of life,
but are the mere caprices of fancy, the evil
is in its extreme ; or if not,
111. The extremity oY the evil must be
in the cafe before us, where the absolute
necessaries depend on the caprices of fancy,
and the caprice of a single fancy directs the
fafhion of the community. Here the de
pendence finks to the lovveft point of servi
lity. We fee a proof of it in the spirit of
the address. Twenty thousand persons are to
get or go without their bread, as a wanton
youth, may fancy to wear his flioes with or
without straps, or to faften his straps with
firings or with buckles. Can any des
potism be more cruel than a situation, in
which the existence of thousands depends
on one will, and that w ill on the molt flight
and fickle of all motives, a mere whim of
the imagination.
IV. What a contrast is here to the inde
pendent situation and manly sentiments of
American citizens, who live on their own
foil, or whose labour is necessary to its cul
tivation, or who were occupied in supplying
wants, which being founded in solid utility,
in comfortable accommodation, or in fet
tled habits, produce a reciprocity of de
pendence, at once ensuring subsistence, and
inspiring a dignified sense of social rights.
V. The condition of those who receive
employment and bread from the precarious
(ource of fafhion and fuperfluity, is a lelfon
to nations, as well as to individuals. In
proportion as a nation consists of that des
cription of citizens, and depends on exter
nal commerce, it is dependent on the con
sumption and caprice of other nations. If
the laws of propriety did not forbid, the
manufacturers of Birmingham, Waflal, and
Wolverhampton, had as real an interest in
supplicating the arbiters of fafhion in Ame
rica, as the patron they have addrefled.
The dependence in the cafe of nations is
even greater than among individuals of the
fame nation for besides the mutability offa
fhion which is the fame in both, the mutability
of policy is another source of danger in the
former. March 20.
From the Delaware Gazette, of the
17 th inft.
IT must afford great pleasure to the friends
of American manufactures, to fee ths
rapid improvements which have, within
these few years, been made in machinery,
within the United States ; and too much
praise cannot be given to those individuals,
who, notwithstanding the numerous obsta
cles which present themselves against new
inventions, in a young country by steady per
feverence, complete valuable machines.At the head of this lift, ftancls a Citizen
of the Delaware state, Mr. Oliver Evans ;
this excellent mechanic, did in the time of
the late war, invent and complete a ma
chine for forming card teeth, which makes
1500 complete teeth in ofie minute, and
with great accuracy. As Mr. Evans had
not capital fufficient to set up an extensive
card factory ; and as he did not wifii that
his invention lliould benefit individuals on
ly, he applied to some of the leading mem
bers in the alfembly of the State of Pennsyl
vania, and proposed establishing, in that
State, under the patronage of the Legisla
ture, a card and wire factory, which would
draw the wire, and when it was fine enough,
make it into teeth for the cards in leis time
and trouble, with his machine, than to wind
the wire in the usual hanks, and lay it a
side. They however did not think pro
per to give him any encouragement, and
he Ibid the secret to individuals.
The principles of this machine are now
in use in the United States, and the
proprietors of it are enabled to excel Eu
rope in the manufactory of cards.
When we conlkler the state of this coun
- try, the innumerable quantity of never fail
* ing streams with which it is iupplied, it must
be obvious, that by a proper attention to
labourfavirig machines we may obviate the
great objection made to manufacturing in
this country, the high price of labour.
Who could have thought ten years ago,
that it was poflible to construct a mill, that
after the wheat was emptied from the deck
of a shallop, or the tail of a waggon, into a
spout, it ffiould immediately ascend to the
upper floor, and from thence to pafi
through all the cleaning machines into the
hopper for f rinding, and as fact as ground
to ascend again to the meal loft, and
there be spread, cooled, and gathered a
gaiu into the bolting hopper, aYid bolted,
and that part which requires to be bolted
to pals from one (ide of the house to the o
ther, in a horizontal direction, and there
ascend again, and a quantity of bran be
completely mixed with it, and the whole
bolted over, and all this without the assis
tance of manual labour ? Such a mill,
ten years ago, would have been ranked
with the perpetual motion, or philosophers
stone, as the dreams of a viliojiary projec
tor ; but we have lived to fee it conltruct
ed ; and are at a loss which molt to admire,
the extent of the improvement, or the lim
pllcity, and if I may so express myfelf, the
Harmony with which it is applied.
From a certificate publillied lately in the
Delaware Gazette, iigned by Meflrs. Shall
crofs and Stroud, it appears that four men
will do all the bUinefs of two mills, with
the alliltance of Mr. Evans's machinery,
with as mucheafe as four men did the bu
siness of one mill without it, thereby sa
ving one half the labour. Now if we fup
pole 2000 mills in the United States, and
by this machinery 2 men are saved in each
mill, there will be a saving of the labour of
4000 men, at 200. dollars a year each, will
be -too,ooo dollars laved. We are happy
to learn that Mr. Evans is now likely to
reap the fruits of his labour ; upwards of
100 mills have adopted his improvements,
and they are daily mcrealing in public elti
mation.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
FROM what has been seen in the public
prints, it appears that a diverlity oj
sentiment has taken place between the twt
Houses of the national legislature, respect
ing the mode of apportioning Representa
tives among the several states. * As that
branch forms the democratic feature in
the government, and is that alone in which
the equality of reprerentation is attempted,
a controversy could not have commenced
upon a fubjeit of greater importance to the
public. Certain it is there is none upon
which, for a variety of reasons, an in u'rj
would be so deeply felt, or loudly com
plained of in the different quarters of the
union.' Tis therefore to be hoped it will be
soon amicably adjusted, and in such manner
as to preserve the true spirit and meaning
of the constitution.
The ground' upon which this disagree
ment has taken place, so far as the bill and
amendment furnilh any evidence, is, whe
ther the representation (hall be formed, by
some given ratio upon the population ot
each state, or that of the United States.
The House of Representatives contend for
the former and the Senate the latter plan.
It wiil be readily perceived, that the two
1 modes vary radically, as must likewise the
principles upon which they are founded. A
short iiluftration will, however, denion
ftrate this more fully.
rhat of the House of Representatives
takes the people of each state, as a separate
mats, and divides them by the ratio agreed
on, 30,000 for instance, and for every
complete sum of mch ratio as they shall res
pectively contain, gives a member : And
for the deficiency or fraction that may take
place in any state, after counting to them
the number of Representatives they become
thus entitled, however great it may be,
makes no provision. Being less than the
ratio which regulates by a common mea
sure, the representation in every state, no
right can accrue on it j & to accommodate,
a every inflance, however near it might
ipproach, would subvert the rule itfelf.
. po:i this plan, what the number of repre
sentatives may be, mult be eventual; and
iependant not only on the ratio, but the
r.nountof the fractions in thefeveral Hates:
or if each should contain a fraction ol
: 9>cco, or any higher given sum less thar
;o,cco; there being 15 Hates, the repre
entation would be reduced by 14 member:
ess than the fame population would admit
>f, under a different arrangement.
That contended for by the Senate applies
:he ratio to the aggregate populrtion, 01
■vhole numbers of all the Hates, dividing thai
copulation by such ratio. This will almoll
nvariably give a greater number ofrepre
sentatives than it wyuld do if applied to
:hat of the Hates ; for it will not happei;
jnce in a thousand inllances that the num
bers of each Hate would be such as to ad
nit an equal apportionment of thole mem
bers by tne fame ratio among all the Hates,
rhefmallelt poilible variation might form
1 difference, and the higher the fraction the
greater would it be. It amounts atprefent
:o eight, and might have been 14.
Having gained the number of Reprefen
:atives by tnisjprocefs, it remains in the next
nliance to find their conHituents. How
[hall this be accomplished ? The molt obvi
ous course would be, by laying oil the uni
on into as many diltricts, eacn containing
30,000. This would admit of only one
tiaft.on, which might be equalized on the
whole. But it wnl be readily perceived,
this is impollible, as one fcalfof a diftricl
might be in one Hate and the other in ano
ther ; which is exprefily forbidden by the
whole spirit of the cjiiititution. In ihort.
it mult be obvious, upon the slightest ob
servation, that no pian can be executec
without regarding them as Hates, as an>
[hat might be formed on a different princi
ple, would conftautly interfere with their
respective boundaries.
Nor can they be diflributed by the fame
ratio applied to the population of the indi
vidual ttates, for this, as has been alread)
observed, will almolt invariably leave a reli
iuum of members, to be difpof'ed of on tome
sther principle. How lhati these be appor
tioned ? Among thole liates having the liigh
-H fractions ? or for the purpose of regula
ting the ratio of reprefemauon within the
Itates refpeitively r The former will be the
claim of the larger, and the latter of tlit
linailer Hates; and who ihail decide be
tween them ? Will not this open wide the
door for negotiation,barter, and favoritifm,
which might tarnilh the fame, and deltroj
all confidence in the public councils ?
Thus we find the molt invincible obsta
cles oppose themselves to the execution of
either mode. 'f is the chara£ter of the ag
gregate principle to consider the people oi
America as a confoiidated mass, excluding
in that inflance the idea of their Hate capa
cities. In that character therefore, should
the apportionment be made on them. lot
it wasabfurd to lay, that they were entitled
to an interelt in one capacity, which thej
mult receive in another, that as a confoii
dated people they had a right to a particu
lar reprelentation which could only be ex
tended to them as Hates. To this mode,
however, an linuperable barrier has bee
oppol'ed. Resort to the Hate lcale has beet
found equally impracticable, :orin adopt
ing the aggregate plan, the mult be
abandoned. They never can be inltru
mental to each other, being in every re
spect incompatible. But the members mull
be apportioned by some mode or other —
under this neceiiity, as it is presumed, the
amendment or the Senate has adopted the
latter, giving the reliduary members tc
those Itates having the highest fractions.—
A future Congress might purl'ue some other,
taking 2 Hill more (pacious field for tli 1 -
cretion, or in other terms, partiality tc
range on.
The above contains a Ihort %nalyfis of
the two plans, in their respective princi
ples, operation, and eilect. It rtmains
to_. examine which been sanctioned by
the conflitution 01 the United States.
LUCIUS.
March 2i.
LONDON Jan. 23—Feb. 2.
Military preparations are Hill going on
with a considerable degree of activity in
owed en anel Rufiia as also at Vienna:
notwithfianding the Emperor does not
Teem inclined to favour the French Emi
grants.
T he French national aflembly have laid
an embargo upon ail veflels in the port of
Dunkirk, in consequence of which all the
English veflels failed upon the firfl notice
of such embargo.
On the 4-th of August Tippoo Saib attack
ed the town andfortrefs of Coimbator, but
was obliged to withdraw. He soon after
attacked a party of the Mahratas, in alli
ance with the hnglilh, and defeated them
liaving killed and taken upwards of seven
thousand men.
'1 he Swallow packet is arrived from In
dia, and brings news down to September
Bth. Lord Cornwallis had after immense
loss and fatigue returned to Bangalore,
pv. here, when the Swallow came away, Ti-
poo Saibhac! not yet rr.olefl.ed lum. A de
tachment of the British army had tai-.en
the fort of Rycattah. General Abercrom
bie had retreated to Tellicherry; and the
Mahrattas continued faithful to the Britiih
interest.
On the 16th of January the National As
sembly ofFrance decreed, that Louis Stani
slas Xavier, Prince ofFrance, had forfeit
ed his right to the fowereignty.
The East India company has sent out
400,6001. specie to Madras, for continuing
the war in India-—
A splendid embafly is preparing frcm
this country to the .emperor of China. '] he
court of East India directors have voted 20,000 1.
for this purpoie ; and his majesty, it is said, is to
add something handsome to make the embafly
the more refpe£lable. Lord Macartney has the
offer of the embafly.
PHILADELPHIA.
March 22,' 1792.
On Tuesday lalt died, at his lodgings in
this city, Peter Jaquette, a Sachem
ot the Oneida Nation,. who arrived here a
few days iince with several other Chiefs of
the.Six Nations, on bulinefs with government.
His body was interred yefierday afternoon in
one of the church yards in this city, with the
honors of war ; being attended to the grave by
the field officers, and officers of battalions, of
artillery, cavalry, and infantry of the city and
liberties, ai:d avail concourse of citizens.
On the 1 7th inft, arrived at New-York the
ilup Britannia, Capt. Martin, ill 32 days from
Greenock. This ship biings London news as
late as the 6th of February ; for the molt mate
rial of which lee our London head.
" We are (fays the New-Brunfwick Gazette)
in a great measure deprived of all newspaper in
telligence. A bag of papexs has been known to
remain in a poll-office between the two cities
of Ncw-Yoikand Philadelphia, for several days
—the realon why ? Becaule the mail-coach had
not room for them. Papers lent from eitherof
the above cities leldom come to hand with us
till lour or live days after they are primed."
From a Corrcfpcndcnt.
IN the freeft countries there are among
different clafl'es of citizens, degrees of attach
ment to republican government on one fide,
and of averlion to monarchy on another.
Even in the United States the remark is ve
rified in the deliberations of public bodies,
in the diflertations of theprels, and in the
language of promifcttous conversations.
Whatever may be the cause, the fact can
not be disputed.
This difference of sentiment among us
betrays itfelf in no way more distinctly than
in the comments on public measures, which
may aflett the relative importance eltablilh
ed by the constitution between the federal
government and the state governments. It
is natural for one class of politicians to con
template a degradation of the latter v\ ith
out much alarm, because its tendency tc
monarchy excites little aversion. It is 11 t
less natural for another class to be alarmed
it a spirit ofufurpation in the former, be
caule they dread its fatal influence 011 the
republicanism to which they are attached.
" A FRIEND TO THE UNION," 11
monarchical in his biafs, must be expe£ted tc
jxprefs himfelf on these subjects in a lan
guage very different from what is used by t
Kepublican friend to the union.
If such an one wishes, however, to b:
thought a friend to truth, as well as to the
union, he Ihould not !o grossly forget it
to alfert " that Congress is not even accufec
Jt having exceeded its powers."
If he wishes to be thought a friend to liber
ly1 he should not blend with the jinwarranta
Me refufal of Hate legiflatu.es to take tht
prelcribed oath, the exercise of their unquej
'to able right, as constituents of the federa
Senate, to express their sentiments on fub
;ects of federal legislation.
Ifhewilhesto be thought a man of pru
dnce he ought not to refer the Unitec
States to the example of France in breaking
down the provincial governments and confol
'dating the whole nation into one body
" The enlightened citizens of this country
the great body of whom are unqufionabl
republican, will recollect that France contain,
about one hundred millions of acres only, will
not more than twenty-Jive millions of people,
whilst the United aiutes contain about fn
hundred millions of acres, with a capacity
for more than an hundred millions of people,
and they will reflect in the midst of their
ioy over the French revolution, that if
France, as a confolidatedgovernment is under
the nece'iity of retaining a King at the an
nual charge of more than four millions of dol
lars, as well as at the peril of the liberty
they have gained ; the United States under
a consolidated system, mult soon be obliged tc
receive an hereditary government at perhaps a
Kill greater expence, and with the certain
loss of the liberty they havepurchaled with
lo much precious treasure, and liill more
precious blood.
Extra& of a letter from St. George's (Bermuda)
dated February 2,
" A proportion was made some time
lince for erecting a light houfeon the North
Rock, thrseleagues northward »f the main
land of these iflar.ds, in lat. 32. 25. The
project is practicable, and would be ex
tremely advantageous to the European ar.d
American trade 111 general. Of late the
delign seems to have dropped, perhaps from
some of those narrow motives which always
I'acrifice public good to private emolument.
We are much in the (ituation of an Inn
holder on a rough road ; the more carriages
that break down, the better for him, as he
is sure to be the gainer."
A copy of Itlter from the American ■ / of
Arts and Sciertccs.
Cambridge, March sth, 1-92.
Sir,
YOUR late communications were pre
sented to the American Academv of
Arts and Sciences the 29th ultimo. and 1
im directed to return you the thanks of the
Academy for the farce. With regard to
the truth of your theory, and the proba
jility of determining longitude from the
variation of the needle, the Academy can at
>resent express no sentiment. But I have
ihe pleasure to assure you that the society
s pleased with your application of the
mbjeft, and highly approves your very
laudable delign of improving magnetic
ibfervations. Convinced of the impor
tance of ascertaining with accuracy the
magnetic variations in different parts of
:he globe, the Academy wishes you success
in your proposed voyage, and that it may
contribute towards perfecting a discovery
highly ufeful to mankind. With senti
ments of due refpeCt.
I am Sir,
Your obedient humble servant
ELIPHALET PEARSON,
Corresponding Secretary.
John Churchman, Esq.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Six per cents, per £. - 2c/9,
Three per cents, - . j 2 J.
Deferred fix per cents, - 12 6.
Final £e:tlenicnti - if/.
Indents - - J</9-
Bank Hock 1-2 (hares, 70 —per cent, advance.
Washington, tn the Territory of Columbia.
A PRE M 1 U M
OF 500 dollars, or a medal of that value,
at the option of the party, will be giv
en by the Commissioners of the Federal
buildings to the perlon who, before the
fifteenth day of July next, (hall produce to
them the inoft approved plan, if adapted by
them, for a Preiident'o house to be ereCtcd
in this city. The site of the building, if
the artist will attend to it, will of course
influence the afpeft and outline of his pirn,
and it's deltination will point out to him
the number, size, ard diitribution of the
It will be a recommendation
ot any plan, if the central part of it may be
detached and erected for the present, with
the appearance of a complete whole, and
be capable of admitting the additional parts,
in future, if they (hall be wanting. Draw
ings will be expected of the ground plats
elevations of each front, and sections
through the building in such directions as
may be necefiary to explain the interna!
itruclure ; and an eft;mate of the cubic feet
ot brickwork, compoling the whole mass of
the walls. 7 he Commissioners.
Wlslington, in tit Territory of Columbia
APRE M I U M
OF a lot in this City to be defisnated by
impartial judges and 500 dollars ; or a
medal ot that value, at the option of the
party, will be given by the Commiflionels
ot the Federal Buildings, to the peifon
who, before the fifteenth day of July
(hall produce to them the molt approved
plan, if adopted by them, for a Caoitol to
be erected in this city, and 250 dollars, or
a medal for the plan deemed next in merit
to the one they lnall adopt. The buildiii
to be of bi ick, ano to contain thefollowi* l -'
apartments, to wit. ' 0
A conference room 1 Sufficient to"~) jy
A room for the Re- L accomi nodate o g
prefentatives f 3°° persons 3
J each. s •
A lobby or antichamber to the latter, r 0-3
A Senate room of 12C0 square feet Z'~
area. V; -=
An antichamber or lobby to the lad. "o
12 rooms of Coo square feet area, each, for
committee rooms and clerks offices, to be
of half the elevation of the former. Draw
ings wili be expected of the ground plats
elevations of each front, and sections
through the building in such directions a;
may be neceilary to explain the interna l
ItruCture, and an estimate of the cubic fee"
of brickwork compoling the whole mnl of
the walls. The Commissioners". '
This Day are published,
SERMON S,
Historical and Charafteriftical :
By WII.LIAM LIN N, D. D.
Sold by T. DOBSON", R. CAMPBELL &
M.CAREY.
[Price Thrtt Quartets if a Dellar.']proportion to quantity f>f different kinds of fait,
a bushel weighing from about 56 to upwa: ds of 80
wt. It would have an equalizing effeCt if the
bufliel were defined by weight ; and if 56 pounds
were taken as the danaard, a valuable acceflion
to the revenue would refulr.
This regulation is therefore submitted as a re
fourcc upon the present occasion. The rate ol
duty to remain as it is.
It will be a reasonable accommodation to trade,
if it is made-a p.irt of this arrangement, to ex
tend the credit for the duty on fait to a longej
term. It is an article which from the circum
itances of its importation, frequently lies on hand
for a confider'able time j and in relation to the
fisheries, is usually lold upon a credit of fevcra
months.
Some remarks may be proper in regard to tht
proposed duties.
Those on spirits and wines may appear high,
They are doubtless considerable. But there ait
precedents ellewhereof much higher duties on th«
fame articles. And it is ceitainly in every view
judifiable to make a free use of them for the pur
poles of revenue.
Wines, generally speaking, are the luxury 0!
clafles of the community who can aft'ord to pay 1
conliderable duty upon them.
It has appeared advifeable to adhere to the ides
of a fpecific duty per quantity on all the specie:
of wines in most common conlumption in th<
country, and those mod susceptible of precift
designation, as affording greated certainty to the
revenue.-—And to adopc a general ad valorem rate
for other kinds, proportioned to the fpecific dutie;
—This rate is 40 per cent.
The didinCtion has proceeded from the difficul
ty of a precise enumeration of all rhe other kind:
of wine, which are and may be imported, and 0
such an adjustment of fpecific rates, as will bca;
some reasonable proportion to the value of the ar
tide.— The present lowed rate of duty on wine
amounts to 200 and 300 per cent, on the valu<
of certain kinds ; which may be considered a
equivalent to a prohibition.
While therefore ideas of proportion will be bet
ter consulted than heretofore, by the proposed ar
rangement, it is probable, that the revenue wil
be benefited, rather than injured, by a reduCtioi
of the duties on low priced wines.
The coniiderations which render ardent spirit
a proper object of high duties, have been repeat
ediy dwelt upon.—lt may be added, that it is ;
familiar and a jud remark, that the peculiarly lov
price of ardent spirits in this country is a grea
source of intemperance.
To bring the price of the article more nearl
to a level with the price of it in other market
by an increase of duty, while it will contribute t<
the advancement of the revenue, cannot but prov<
in other respeCts a public benefit. The rates pro
posed will be dill moderate compared with exam
ples in other countries j and the article is of 2
nature to enable the importer, without difficulty
to transfer the duty to the consumer.
A discrimination is fuggeded in respeCt to dutie:
on/pints didilled from grain. To this, there have
been two inducements—One, that the
3n the duty is conformable to the difference be
tween the cod c*f the grain spirits usually impor
ted, and that of Wed-lndia rum.—Another, tha
it is in a particular manner the intered of thi
United States to favor the didillation of its owi
grain, in competition with foreign spirits fron
the fame material.—ln the second division of spi
rits, the fird class of proof is dropped, because none
of it comes from the Wed-lndies 5 and because
any other spirits usually imported, which may be
of so low a proof are higher priced, even than fomc
of the higher proofs of Wed-lndia spirits.—The
dropping of that class of proof therefore in thi:
cafe is favorable to the revenue, and favorable tc
equality.
Several of the other fpecific duties which an
proposed, befidcs the inducements to them as item;
of revenue, are drongly recommended by confeder
ations which have been dated in the report of the
Secretary on the subject of manufactures. The
fame report dates inducements to a 15 per cent,
duty on some of the articles, which are mentioned }
as proper to be comprized under that rate.
With regard to China and Glals, there are two
weighty reasons for a comparatively high duty up -
on them. The use of them is very limited, ex
cept by the wealthier classes. And both their buik
and liability to damage in Cranfpoication are great
securities againd evasions of the revenue. It will
however merit confederation, whether, for the ac
commodation of importers, a longer term of cre
dit ought not to be allowed on these articles.
A duty of two cents per pound on cocoa is less
In proportion to value, than the present duty on
coffee.—As an extensive article of consumption,
it is a productive one of revenue.
The duty on playing cards can give rife to no
cjuedion except as to the practicability of a fate
colledion. In order to this it will be proper to
iuperadd certain precautions, which will readily
occur in regulating the details of a "bill for the pur
pose.—A similar attention will be requisite in re
gard to the duties on wines. The employment of
marks and certificates may advantageously be ex
tended to this article.
The rate of ten per centum ad valorem it is ho
ped will not be deemed immoderate in relatioa to
the articles to which it is proposed to apply it.—
It is difficult to assign rules for what ought to be
considered as a jud dandard.—-But after the bed
consideration, which the Secretary has been able
to bedow upon it, he cannot discover, that any
real inconvenience is likely permanently to result
from the extension of that rate to the cases propo
- fed.
The addition of 2 1-2 per cent to the duty on
the mass of articles now rated at 5, will conditute
2n important, though not an excelfive augmenta
tion.— Nevertheless, it is proposed, that it shall be
only temporary—and there is reasonable ground of
expectation, that the cause for having recouife to
it will not be of very long continuance.
It will not have escaped the observation of the
House, that the duties which were fuggefled in
the Secretary's report, on that subjeCt, as encou
ragements to manufactures, are for the mod part
included among the ©bjeCts of this report.
It may tend to avoid future embarraflment, if
such abolitions and drawbacks, as /hall be deem
:d expedient, with a view to promoting manufac
tures, (hall accompany the establishment and ap
!*ropriation of whatever further duties may be laid,
for the object in contemplation.
And it may be found convenient to qualify the
Impropriation of the surplus which is to be appli
id to thac obje&, so as to let in such other appro
bations during the feflion as occurrences may
uggeft.
An estimate of the additional revenue which
nay be expe&ed from the proposed duties is fub
oincd.
It will occur to the House, that the credit sl
owed for the dutits will require an anticipation of
heir product by a temporary loan, for which pro
/ilion in the law will be requj/ite.
All lohlch is humbly submitted*
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the \Treajury.
ESTIMATE of probable additional Revenue
from the proposed Duties.
Madeira Wine, 300,000 gallons average
incieafe 12 cents per gallon, - 36,000
Dther Wines 700,000 gallons, average
increase 3 cents per gallon, •< 21,000
Distilled Spirits 3,600,000 gallons, ave
rage increase, allowing for proposed de
duction from the duties on domestic
spirits, 2 cents, - 72,000
Salt, from the equalizing regulation pro
posed, will probably yield 1-6 more, or
2 cents per buihel on 2,000,000 buih
els, - 40,00 c
Malt liquors, 200,000 gallons, at 2 1 2
cents, - _ SjOOC
tfails and Spikes, i,800,0001b. at 1 cent, jß,ooc
Oocoa, - Boo,ooolb. at 1 cent, B*ooc
Playing cards, - 20,000, at 15 cents, 3>occ
Other enumerated artiticles ad valorem,
at 15 per cent. - lo,ooc
Increaled duty on articles rated perma
nently at 10 per cent ad valorem,com
puted at two millions of dollars in va
lue at 3 per cent. - - 60,00 c
Temporary addition of 2 1-2 per cent on
the articles now rated at 5, computed
on 10,000,000 of dollar*, - 250,00 c
Dollars, S 2 3fs oc
REMARKABLE ANTIQUITIES in interior
America.
[Frew the tnanufcript of a late Traveller.]
BESIDES thole ruins in the Illinois and Wa
>afii countries, which have been often mention
d, there are others no less remarkable many
lundreds of miles farther weft, and particularly
n the country about the great falls of the Milii
ippi. As we approach these falls, commonly
ailed St. Anthony's, we frequently meet with
>yramida of earth, from thirty to seventy, and
ven eighty feet in height. These are, most pro
>ably, the tombs of the ancient kings and chief
ains of this of America, though there are
>thcrs which I am inclined to believe were ere&ed
n consequence of some signal victory, and, pcf
ibly, to cover the bones and carcalfes of the slain.
in digging horizontally into several of these pyra
nids, a little above the base, we generally found
1 stratum of white fubtfance, something like moist
ime, and glutinous withal, extending in all pro
jability several yards within, or perhaps nearly
he whole length of the diametrical line. I had
veiy reason to believe this consolidated chalky
"übftance to be the remains of skeletons buried 3
>erhaps two hundred centuries ago, and convert
ed by time and the operation of the elements into
heir present state.
Many tokens remain, on both fides of the Mif
ifippi, of that country being in ancient ages as
veil cultivated and as thickly inhabited as the
ountry on the Danube or the Jlhinej which
ully proves that the literati have been too hasty
n denominating America a neiv ivorldy or an
►riginal present to the Europeans from the hands
»f rude nature.
A copper mine was opened some years' since,
arther down the Millilippi, and, to the great
urprize of the laborers, a large colle&ion of mi
ling tools were found several fathoms below the
uperficies of the earth. Another person, in dig
ingfor a well, discovered a furnace of brick-work
ive fathoms below the present furface j and in
his fOrnace were found a quantity of coals and
ire-brands, which, for aught we know, might
»ave been kindled in the days of Moses or Ly
urgus.
Not long since, at a spot on the shore of the
Dhio, where the bank had been wafted by the
indermining of the water, a stone dropped out, of
he hardest kind of black marble, about seven
»ounds in weight, having twelve equal furfaces,
■ach furface. being mathematically equilateral and
equiangular five sided figures ; —this does not ap
)ear to be a lufus r.atura,', but a work of exqui
ite art, the offspring of human ingenuity. Near
he falls of the MifTifippi, there is a fait spring In
he bed of the river, which has been enclofcd
vith stone work of unknown antiquity, to keep
jut the frefh water. In times of frefhes, howe
?er, the river overflows the stone work and mix
:s with the brine, so that it does not afford fait
0 the savages hereabouts till the river is conlider
ibly fallen.
In several places, circular fortifications have
>een discovered in the fame country : these are
:onftantly endofed with deep ditches, and fenced
vith a breast-work. — From these, and many
ither fimiiar remains of antiquity, one would be
nclined to think the world much older than it
las been commonly imagined. Aristotle affirmed
it to be eternal j and no arguments have ever
been brought to confute him. Several tribes on
the western fide of the great river abovementioned
Jate their national exiftencefor more than twenty
thousand moons back> and the Indians of the east
ern world go immensely farther into the depths of
time, tho' both relate many events of these d:f
tant periods that are evidently mixed with f*bk.
March 17, 1792.
AUTHENTIC.
Schedule of the whole Number of Inhabitants within the Diflrift
OF KENTUCKY.
Names of the Counties and Towns
within the dijtrid ajorefaid.
Fayette County
Nelson
Woodford
Bourbon
Mercer
Lincoln
Jcfferfon
Madison
Mason
Lexington, in Fayette County
Washington, in Mason County
Beards Town, in Nelson Count]
Louisville, in Jefferfon County
Danville, in Mercer County
The whole amount,
SAMUEL M'DOWELL, Jun.
Marjhal for the Kentucky Di/lricl.
LONDON Jan. 10. scandalous prostitution of religion in Italy mull
Britifli goods are at this time finding a sale ii. Toon work its ruin ; they thought it mod prudent
ituations "remote and little thought of, where therefore, to retire behind the curtain, and, by
hey are recommendedby their quality and cheap- prate/ling against the more glaring aits of reli-ious
less. Col. Bentham, an English officer of dif- phrenzy or folly, (Kill keep up, by their fucceffbrs,
inguilhed character, in the Ruffian lervice, who a dominion o\er the minds of men by an app-ar
:ommands a regimen: flationed on the confines of ance of mortification, fanitifisd reserve, ana im
iiberia, was fon.e months ago on an excursion penetrable mystery.
imong the Kirgis Tartars, a race of people who Paris, Dec. 25.—While some consider the
iwell in tents, and inhabit the vast country to Frcnch conrtitutional code a model of perfeflion in
he north of Indoftan. From this gentleman wt ihe political line, others decry it as being full of
earn, that the Kirgis Tartars are clad in oui faults an 4 imperfe&ions. Perhaps neither ofthefe
VJanchefter velvets; their upper garment is a parties have considered, that every legislator, since
iind of mantle or cloak of this material. The the beginning of the world, has found it
:hiefs wear crimson, the common people general- necessary to accommodate his system to the habits,
y black. The Tartars are circuitoufly furnilhed the education, and even the prejudices of the
with Gritiih goods by the Ruffians, who tranfporl people, if he meant to eftablilh it upon a sure
them down the river Volga, to Aftracan, from foundation. It is by gradual advances only that
whence they cross the Caspian sea, and traverft mankind will ever advance to any thing like per
the continent of Alia, where they are dilpofed of 'edtion in their legal fvftems, and he who attempt!
in barter among the Tartarian tribes to the con it upon any other plan, will always be held a vi
fines of the great wail that bounds the empire of fionary in politics.—Prejudice and education have
China. taught the populace of every nation to admire its
The enormous price of sugar has given rife to own constitution. It ,is the fate of ours to be
a report that application is to be made to tht constantly compared, and where it deviates, to be
East-India company to enquire whether sugar blamed. The republican, Payne, wiflied us to
could not be imported from the Eaft-lndies. Wt copy the American code and form of government
have been informed by gentlemen well acquaintcc —He tlid not adverc co the difference of the two
with tile fubjeft, that the sugar cane can be cul- nations tor whom a system was to be formed—the
tivated in the East-Indies to any extent with halt one, as it were, being the innocent children of na
the labor, and at less than one fourth of the ex ture ; the other rendered, corrupt and vicious by
pence, of a Weft-India plantation, and that with- the tyranny and oppression of fourteen or fifteen
out employing a fingie slave. centuries.
Trarjlations from French paters. D 'P icl °f to wit :
TJ E it remembered, That on the fourteenth
Paris, Dee. s—The king lately ordered a co- . 0 f February, in the sixteenth year
medy, called The Govevncjs, to be played at the Qf th hldependence of the United States
national theatre. His choice was the more re- of Americ £ H . H . BrAckENIUDGE, of
maikable, as this piece affords little or no alJufion , T» i_ .u j r j • -i • c
to the times. The following verse was, however. ' he diftnft, hath deposited in this of
greatly applauded by the audience—Je ne veux the title of a book, the right \\hereot
d*efclave 9 &je ne *ueux pas Petre.—l will neitht, claims as author, in the words follovv
be a slave myielf, nor have (laves for my fubjetts ing, to wit : MODERN CHIVALRY, contain-
December B.—Thofe who are born under th mg the adventures of Captain Jo UN FARRAGO,
new constitution of France will have reason to con- and TeAGUE O'RegAN, his servant ;
gratulate thAnfelves on their happy lot, and vene- volume firft—By 11. H. BRACKENRIDGE.
rate the memory of those men who have brough Quicqiiid agunt homines, nopi, farrago Libelli.—
it into action. Liberty had retired beyond the j uve nal.— In conformity to the act of
ocean, h,>d hid heifelf in savage wastes, and a the Congress of the United States, entitled,
mongft the fobtudes of inaccessible mountains. Lt An ast for the encouragement of learn
vn t , ue of the n2t,on > cincen " a *f d n '? } hs ing, by securing the copies of maps, charts,
immortal a.wmbi.,., has re-eftabl.fl.ed he, J 7 b F &nd
upon her throne. Let us henceforward consul; . , . . 1
the BOOK or nature, and every link of th. of ' llch c <f leS > durin S the timeS therem
chain of feodal tyranny (hall be broken. Tlv mentioned.
study of this truly sacred book (hall lead us to the SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
pure and adoration of the Deity— Dijlri£t of Pcnnfylvania.
Commerce lhall now be made free, as well as agri-
culture, industry, and thought itfelf. The exer- TE NP 0 UND SREW AR D.
tions or the nrlt aiiemblies of the nation have been —, T , , » . r
so mighty, that their successors may almost fay, T? AN away, a Negro lad about seventeen
what was said of Philip by his son Alexander, tbey old, who left the fu tCliber
have Ifft us nothing to conquer. —They will, howe-,fometime ill Augllit lait. lie goes by the
ver, be the guardians of the constitution j the pa- name of ; IS of a yellowilll colour,
trons of public good order, and will forever banish and about five feet high. He is supposed
the monster anarchy. Jn whatever nation a re-Jto have gone to the Delaware (late. Any
volt is made against slavery, this great truth, dif- person bringing the said negro to the fub
covered by philolophy will instantly apply, that fcriber, (hall be entitled to the above re
thz Jlrengtb of tyrants entirely lits in the patiencejward ; and any person giving such infor
of the people. (mation as will enable the owner to reco-
Extradl of a letter from Rome, Nov. 30.— iVer him aga j n lhall be entitled to one half
<< His holiness the pope hai found Ins aboye ' f which will be paid by
lo embarralled in dimculty, and the profpedts of THOMAS Mil ES
the church are so beclouded, that his anxiety on -p ,
this occasion has not a little affe&ed his health. e » J /9 2 * 5 ' 1 a,w
Nothing seems to have disturbed him more than . " " "
the revolt of the Cardinal Loinenie, which is an This day IS Fubllfhed
event unprecedented in history, and seems to omen and for falc by
evil to the cause of religion. Recently his holl- THOMAS LAN G,
ness delivered a discourse to the Consistory, full of 2 1, Church alley ;
pathos, and expatiating largely upon the melan- A n on
choly Hate of the church, and the daily declension A/TT7"D TTTirTTT?V
of her influence and authority.—There are some t-UMiVIi!.KL.JL ana LUAUIVI.
here, who do not scruple to fay publicly, that the Re .p, inted from the London edition-Price ,/6-
corruptions and deceptions of the church ought not
! to be longer enduied, and that the religious traf- —
sic, long prattifed here, is scandalous. — Others
pretend that the reformation which took place two', PRINTED B\
hundred years ago, ought to have been imitated long' CHI LD S AND SWA I N F-j
since In Italy. Certain reformers, (fay they) were at their office, no. 239* high-street
no better men than the generality of Popes and NEAR sixth-stb iet,
Caidinals, but weic so cunning as to f<*e that the Philadelphia.
JJ,. 5.:
> & 5. s m 3R.S
«■* 25- V-> £j £- se SN|
•>, ic § §:• o!'
* <» Si >• 11 3
£ ' s'S.g.
s s, 1 =.-" ■"
f i;s. I
S, s
•' cr Sr S- ?>
«- S- «' e
- >. c.
3241 3878 6738 30 368917576
24,56 2746 4644 34 121911099
1767 1929 3267 27 2220 9210
1645 2035 3249 908 7837
1411 1515 2691 7 1317 6941
1375 1441 2630 8 1094 6548
1008 ' 997 16S0 4 876 4565
1231 1421 2383 737 5772
431 676 952 208 2267
276 203 290 2 63 834
163 05 183 21 462
52 49 85 1 29 216
49 44 79 1 27 200
49 28 51 22 150
1 5 1 54 17057 28922 114 ■243°173 6 77