Vol. I.
Read in the the House of Reprefcnta
tives on the 6th instant.
IN obedience to the Orders of the House o)
Representatives of the firfl and fe
cord days of November lafl, the Jirji di
reeling the Secretary of the Treasury 11
report to the Hcmfefuch information as h
may have obtained, refpeEling any dijfi
culties which may have occurred in tht ex
ccvtion of the ad " repealing, after th<
laftdayof June next, the duties here
tofore laid upon aiftilled spirits im
ported from abroad, and laying other
in their stead ; and also upon spirit
distilled within the United States,
and for appropriating the fame," to
gether with his opinion thereupon ; these
cond directing him to report to the HouJ
whether any and what alterations in fa
ior of the spirits which fha.ll be diflillei
from articles of the growth or produce
the United States, or from foreign art.i
cles, within the fame, can, in his opinion
be made in the act for laying duties upoi
spirits dijlilled within the United States
confidently with its main design, ani
with the maintenance of the public faith .
the said Secretary rejpectfully Jubmits tk
following
REPORT.
FROM the several petitions and me
morials which have been referrec
to the" Secretary, as well as from vari
ous representations which have beer
made to him, it appears that objection:
have arisen in different quarters againf
the above mentioned a£l ; which hav<
in some instances embarrassed it's exe
cution, and inspired a delire of its be
inff repealed, in others have induced 1
wish that alterations may be made ir
some of its provisions.
Th?fe o'oje&ions have reference to ;
fuppoled tendency of the a£t: lft, Tt
contravene the principles of liberty
2dly, To injure morals : 3dly, to oppref
by heavy and excessive penalties : 4thly
To injure industry and interfere wit!
the business of di ft illing.
As to the supposed tendency of th(
a£l to contravene the principles of lib
erty, the discussions of the fubjeft whicl
have had place in and out of the Legif
lature, supersede the necessity of mori
than a few brief general observations.
It is presumed that a revision of th<
point cannot in this refpeft weaken th<
convittion which originally didtatec
the law.
There can surely be nothing in th(
nature of an internal duty on a confuma
ble commodity more incompatible wit!
liberty, than in that of an external du
ty on a like commodity. A doftrini
which aflerts, that all duties of the for
merkind (usually denominated excises
are inconftftent with the genius of a fre<
government, is too violent and too lit
tie reconcileable with the neceflities o
society to be true. It would tend t(
deprive the government of what is ir
most countries a principal source of re
venue, and by narrowing the diftribu
ticn of taxes, would serve to oppref
particular kinds of industry. It woulc
throw in the firft instance an undu(
proportion of the public burthen on th<
merchant and on the landholder.
This is one of those cases in whicl
names have an improper influence, anc
in which certain prepoffeflions excludc
a due attention to facts.
Accordingly the law under consider
ation is complained of though free frorr
the features, which have served in o
ther cases to render laws on the lame
fubjeft exceptionable. And though the
differences have been pointed out, they
have not only been overlooked, but the
very things, which have been studious
ly avoided in the formation of the law,
are charged upon it, and that too from
quarters where its operation would
from circumstances have worn the least
appearance of them.
It has been heretofore noticed, that
lie chief circumstances, which in cer
By P. FRENEAU: Publijkcd Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum,.
THURSDAY, March 15, 1792.
tain excise-laws have given occasion to
the charge of their being unfriendly tc
liberty, are not to be found in the act.
which is the fubjeft of this report ;
namely: lft, A summary and diicreti
onaryjurifdiftion in the excise officer;
contrary to the course of the common
law, and in abridgment of the right oi
trial by jury : and 2ndly, A genera
power in the fame officers to search am
infpeft indiscriminately all the houses anc
buildings of the pcrfons engaged in thf
business to which the tax relates.
As to the firft particular, there is no
thing in the ast even to give colour tc
a charge of the kind against it, and ac
cordingly it has not been brought
But as to the second, a very differen.
■power has been mistaken for it, and th<
ast is complained of as conferring thai
very power of indiscriminate search anc
infpeftion.
The fact nevertheless is otherwise
An officer, under the ast in question
can infpeft or search no house or buil
ding, or even apartment of any house 01
building which has not been previoujl)
'.ntered and marked by the poffeifor as <
place ul'ed fordiftilling or keeping spi
rits.
And even the power so qualified is
only applicable to distilleries from fo
reign materials, and in cities, towns and
villages from domestic materials ; thai
is, only in cases in which the law con
templates that the business is carriec
on upon such a scale as efFectually tc
separate the dijlillery from the dwelling
ot the distiller. The distilleries feat
tered over the country, which forir
much the greatest part of the whole
are in no degree fubjeft to difcretionar)
inspection and search.
The true principle of the objection
which may be raised to a general difcre
tionary power of inspection and fearcl
is, that the domicilor dwelling of a citizer
ought to be free from vexatious inqui
fition, and intrusion.
This principle cannot apply to a
cafe in which it is put in his own powei
to leparate the place of his business frorr
the place of his habitation, and b)
designating the former by visible public
marks, to avoid all intermeddling with
the latter.
A diftillerv seldom forms a part o:
the dwelling of its proprietor, and ever
where it does, it depends on him Jo di
rect and limit the power of visiting anc
icareh, by marking out the particulai
apartments which are so employed.
But the requisition upon the diftillei
to set marks on the building or apart
ments which he makes use of in his bu
siness, is one of the topics of complainl
against the law. Such marks are re
presented as a dishonorable badge,
And thus a regulation, designed as much
to conform with the feelings of the citi
zen, as forthe security of the revenue,
is converted into matter ofobjection.
It is not easy to conceive what maxim
of liberty is violated, by requiring per
sons, who carry on particular trades,
which are made contributory to the
revenue, to designate by public marks
the places in which they are carried on.
There can certainly be nothing more
harmlefsor less inconvenient, than such
a regulation. The thing itfelf is fre
quently done.by persons of various call
ings for the information of customers ;
and why it should become a hardship
or grievance, if required for a public
purpose, can with difficulty be ima
gined.
The supposed tendency of the act to
injure morals seems to have relation to
the oaths, which are in a variety of ca
ses required, and which are liable to the
objection, that they give occasion to
perjuries.
The necessity of requiiing oaths, is
whenever it occurs, matter of regret.
It is certainly defireable to avoid them
as often and as far as possible. But it is
more easy to desire than to find a sub
flitute. The requiring of them is not
peculiar to the act in question. They
are a common appendage of revenue laws,
and are among the usual guards of thoft
laws, as they are of public and private
rights in courts of justice. They coti
ftant.yoccur injury trials,to which the
citiz' ns of the United States arc so much
& fo\ .lily attached. The fame objection
in different degrees lies against them in
both cases. Yet it is not perceivable
how they can be dispensed with in ei
ther.
It is remarkable that both the kinds o'
security to the revenue, which are tc
be fouftd in the act, the oaths of parties
and theinfpection of officers, are ob
jected to. If the)'are both to be aban
dorfed, it is not easy to imagine wha:
fecunty there can be for any lpecies oi
revenue, which is to be collected froir
articles of consumption.
If precautions of this nature are in
consistent with liberty, and immoral, a;
:here are very few indirect taxes, which
can be collected without them, the
consequence mull be, that the entire oi
almost entire weight of the public bur
thens mull, in the firft instance, fall up
-3n ,fixed and visible property, house.'
md lands, a consequence which woulc
be found in experiment productive oi
great injustice and inequality, and ru
inous to agriculture.
It has been suggested by fomc distil
lers, that both the topics of complaint,
which have been mentioned, might be
obviated by a fixed rate of duty, adjuft
sd according to a ratio compoundec
of the capacity of each fhill, and the
tin!*- er and capacities of the cistern;
employed with it ; but this and ever)
limilar method are objected to by othei
diftillcrs,as tending to great inequality
irifing from unequal supplies of the
material at different times and at dif
ferent places, from the different me
thods of distillation practised by differ
snt distillers, and from the different de
grees of activity in the business whicf
arise from capitals more or less ade
quate.
The result of an examination of thi:
point appears to be, that every fuel
mode in cases in wh-ieh the business i:
carried on upon an extensive scale.
would necelfarily be attended wits
considerable inequalities ; and upon the
whole would be less latisfactory thar
the plan which has been adopted.
It is proved by the fulleft informati
on, that, in regard to distilleries, whicl
are rated in the law, according to the
capacity ofeach still, the alternative o
paying according to the quantity actual
[y distilled is viewed in many parts o:
the United States as essential to the e
quitable operation of the duty. And il
is evident that such an alternative
could not be allowed, but upon the
condition of the party rendering upon
jath an account of the quantity of spi
rits distilled by him ; without entirely
defeating the duty.
As to the charge that the penalties of
the ast are fevcre and oppreflive, it is
made in such general terms, and so abso
lutely without the fpecification of a sin
gle particular, that it is difficult to ima
gine where it points.
The Secretary however has carefully
reviewed the provisions of the ast in
this refpeft, and he is not able to disco
ver any foundation for the charge.
The penalties it inflicts are in their
nature the fame with those which are
common in revenue laws, and in their
degree comparatively moderate.
Pecuniary fines from fifty to five hun
dred dollars, and forfeiture of the arti
cle in refpeft to which there has been
a failure to comply with the law,
are the severest penalties inflicted
upon delinquent parties, except in a ve
ry few cases : In two, a forfeiture of the
value of the article is added to that oi
the article itfelf, and in some others a
forfeiture cf the {hip or vessel, and of
Numb. 40.
:he waggon or other inflrument of con
veyance, assistant in a breach of the law,
is likewise involved.
Penalties like these for wilful and
fraudulent breaches of an important
aw, cannot truly be deemed either un
jfual or exccflive. They are less than
hose which secure the laws of import,
jnd as moderate as can promise fecuri
:y to any object of revenue, which is
. apable of being evaded.
There appears to be but one provifi
-3n in the law which admits of a quefti
3n, whether the penalty prescribed may
not partake of severity. It is that
which inflicts the pains of perjury on
jny person who shall be convicted of
' wilfully taking a falfe oath or affirm
ition in any of the cases in which oaths
ar affirmations are required by the act."
Precedents in relation to thisparticu
,ar vary. In many of them the penal
:ies are less severe, than for perjury in
:ourts of juflice ; in others they are the
ame. The latter are generally of the
ateft date, and seem to have been the
result of experience.
The United States have in other caf
?s purlued the fame principle as in the
law in question ; and the practice is
certainly founded on strong reasons.
lft. The additional security which it
jives to the revenue cannot be doubted.
Many who would risk pecuniary for
feitures and penalties, would not en
counter the more difgraceful punish
ment annexed to perjury.
2. There seems to be no solid dif
tinftion between one falfe oath in vio
lation of law and right, and another
!alle oath in violation of law and right.
A diflitrciioh i.i the puiiifi.ra;nts of dif
ferent fpeciesof falfe swearing is calcu
lated to beget falfe opinions concerning
the sanctity of an oath ; and by counte
nancing an impression that a violation
of it is less heinous in the cases in which
it is lels punished, it tends to impair in
the mind that scrupulous veneration for
the obligation of an oath which ought
always to prevail, and not only to facili
tate a breach of it in cases which the
laws have marked with less odium, but
to prepare the mind for committing the
drime in other cases.
So far is the law under consideration
from being chargeable with particular
severity, that there are to be found in it
marks of more than common attention
to prevent its operating severely or op
pressively.
The 43d section of the act contains a
special provifior. (and one which it is
believed is not to be found in any law
enacted in this country prior to the pre
sent constitution of the United States)
by which forfeitures and penalties in
curred without an intention of fraud or
wilful negligence may be mitigated or
remitted.
This mild and equitable provision is
an effectual guard against fuffering, or
inconvenience in consequence of undc
figned transgressions of the law.
The 38th section contains a provision
in favor of persons, who though iijno
cent may accidentally fuffer by fei
£ures of their property (as in the execu
tion of the revenue laws sometimes una
voidably happens) which is perhaps en
tirely peculiar to the law under consid
eration. Where there has even been a
;probable cause of seizure, fufficient to ac
quit an officer, the jury are to assess
whatever damages may have accrued,
from any injury to the article seized,
with an allowance for the detention of
it at the rate of fix per centum per an
num of the value, which damages are to
be paid out of the public treasury.
There are other provisions of the act
which mark the scrupulous attention of
the government, to protect the parties
concerned from inconvenience and in
jury, and which conspire to vindicate
the law from imputations of severity or
oppression.
fSec laji page.)PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Saturday, March 10.
An engrossed •* bill declaring the confeni
of Congress to a certain act of the Hate o:
Maryland, and to continue for a longei
time, an act declaring the afifent of Con
grefs to certain acts of the slates of Mary
land, Georgia, and Rhode-Illand and Pro
vidence plantations, so far as the fame res
pects the fliatfis of Georgia, and Rhode-
Island antl Providence plantations, —wa:
read" a third time, palled, and sent to th(
Senate for their concurrence.
A petition of Isaac Ledyard was present
ed and read, praying compensation for ler
vices in the Military Holpital of the Uni
ted States, during the late war Refer
red to the Secretary at War for examinati
on and report.
The House proceeded to the confeder
ation of the meflage received from the Pre
sident of the United States on Monday last,
with the translation of the letter from tlje
King of France, announcing to the Unitec
States, his acceptance of the new Confti
tution ; whereupon,
The following resolution was moved,
viz.
•' Resolved, that this House hath receiv
ed, witlvfentiments of high fatisfaction, the
notification of the King of the French
of his acceptance of the conftituuon pre
fented to him in the name of the nation : -
and that the President of the United State
be requeued in his anfvver to the laid no
tification, to express the sincere participa
tion of the house, in the intereits of the
French nation, on this great and impor
taut evetit; and their wilh, that the wis
dom and magnanimity displayed in tne for
mation and acceptance or the conlti
tution, may be rewarded by the mod per
fe£t attainment of its object, the perma
nent happiness offo great a people."
A motion, made for the commitment o:
this resolution, pafled in the negative ;-
yeas, 17 ; nays, 35.
A debate of considerable length, and o
a very interesting nature, then took place
on the adoption of the resolution; aftei
which a division of the qneftion being cal
'ed for, the House agreed to the firlt part
a; far the words "important event" inclusive
yeas, 50 ; nays, 2.
The question was then taken on tin
remaining part of the resolution, and alk
palled in the affirmative; —yeas,36 ; nays, 16
A committee of live members was ap
pointed, to wait on the Pretident of th<
united States with the said resolution.
The following resolution was propofee
and agreed to, viz.
•• That in the cafe of the contefled eleftioi
o;i the petition o fJam esJ ac kfon ,c ompl ai ni nj
of an undue election and return of Anthon;
Wayne, one of the members returned t<
Terve in this House for the ilate of Georgia
the fitting member have leave to bebeare
by counsel, at the bar of this House 01
Monday next."
Monday, March 12.
This being the day appointed by the or
der of the 2 ',th of February for the tri
al of the contelted election of a member t(
represent the state of Georgia,
General Jackson, the petitioner, on tin
one hand, and Mr. Lewis, as Counsel so
the fitting member Gen. Anthony Wayne
on the other, had places aliigned to then
v ithin the bar.
General Jackson's petition being read
together with the reiolutions, which thi
H wife had entered into on the subject,
Mr. Lewis rose, and requelted the tria
might be further postponed till Wednefda;
fe'nnight, that certain additional evidenci
might come forward from Georgia.
General jackson opposed the poflpone
ment, ailedging that futticient time hae
been allowed.
After a considerable time spent in debat
ing the quettion'of postponement, it was a
length negatived by a large majority; i<
members only rising in the affirmative.
The House then proceeded to the hear
ing of the evidence.
General Jackson proceeded to exhibi
and read his proofs in support of the alle
gations of his petition, as far as respects tht
frrft article of charge therein contained : h«
also entered into a pretty long detail of f'att
refpefting the election in one of the coun
ties of the diftritt ; and having concludee
his statement of that part of the bufinels
the House adjourned.
Tuesday, March 13.
A meflage was received from the Senate
by Mr. Secretary Otis, with the represen
tation bill—pafied the Senate with amend
ments.
The House proceeded in the trial of the
contelted election for the low er diftrift ol
Georgia.
Mr. Jackson continued the detail of hi
evidence —and exhibited a statement of the
transactions at the election in Camden coun
ty, &c. Considerable debate took place a
mcing the members, refoecting the admif
fibility of fevera! articles of evidence offer
ed by the petitioner—some of which were
admitted, others not admitted ; Mr. lark
ion conceded his allegations aiic! eofri
ments, with offering as evidence the im
peachment of Judge, Ofbopie, &c. by the
senate of Georgia ; this was ob]efted to by
Mr. Wayne's counsel, and a debate enluing
among the members, an adjournment took
place without a cfecifion.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
BRUTUS, No. I.
On the FUNDING S VST EM.
WHEN a people by laudable exertions,
have raifcd themselves from infigni
ficance and foreign dependence, to national
importance and civil l.berty ; when in a de
liberative manner,unexampled in the hillory
of nations, they have framed a government
to promote the general welfare, and tc
tranlmit the blessings of liberty to the4ateft
posterity, is it not to be regretted bjreve
ry lover of his country, that this govern
ment, instead of attaining the great obieib
it profeffes, of becoming the inflrument oi
happhiefs to the people at large, and of re
ward to the meritorious, fiiould by a bat
idminiltratlon, be perverted from these no
ble purposes, to serve the few, to encou
■age the undeserving speculator, and to un
dername those republican principles whicl
lave been lo lately and arduonfly obtained,
md which have hitherto been coniidered a;
the birth-right of every American., Thai
this is a true ltatement of tlie political state
afo tir country, is a deplorable truth whici
.he following strictures are meant, to illus
trate, and to (how with due deference tc
:hofe who are so fond of bellowing indiscri
minate praises on the measures of govern
ment, that a system of finance has- ifiuec
from the Treasury of the United States,
and has given rife to scenes of fpeculatioi
calculated to aggrandize the few and the
wealthy, by oppressing the great body of the
people, to transfer the belt resources of the
country for ever into the hand of fpecula
:ors, and to fix a burthen on the people o:
the United States and their posterity, which
:ime, instead of dimimlhing, will serve tc
strengthen and encreafe : that in the very
nfancy of our government a more compli
cated funding fvltem than the people o!
England are oppre-fied by, with unlimited
mpoft and excise laws pledged for its i'up
sort, and copied from Britifn Itatate bao::..
lave been palmed on the people of the U ai
red States without reserve or limitation :
:hat the most valuable resources of the
country have been all mortgaged, and fwal
owed up in future payments, and that ir
coufequence of all these e i!s, we now ex
hibit to the world the fad fpetiacle, of e
youthful body, loaded with the infirmitie:
ncident to age, and are actually fufTerinp
r roin the depredations of a few Indians, anc
lave not the means of defence unless we
-efort to loans, and by continuing the bane
"ul fyfterti of anticipation we have began,
■ncreafe those burthens which experience
jroves are already too great.
Such are the fad eifefts of that bafiefu
unding system-, which our rulers have a -
lopted ; afyitem as unjust in its operatioi:
in individuals, as it has been ruinous in it;
-■fleets on the public : for whether we coll
ider the lolfes sustained by the farmer anc
:he soldier, who advanced their persons anc
property in defence of their country ; anc
the immense profits made on those los
es by greedy fpecuiators; or take a more
jxtenlive view, and contemplate the greai
national evils it has involved us in, we are
equally led to deprecate its injuitice and
mpolicy.
Among the numerous evils which are in
volved in this fyllem, for like Pandora's box
.t is pregnant with every mifchief, are the
following:—!. It has given an additional
weight to the general government, particu
larly the treasury department, never con
templated by its framers, by throwing the
enormous sum of fifty million dollars, intc
the hands of the wealthy, and has actacjheci
them to all its measures, by motives of pri
vate interest.
2. It has combined this great monied in
terest, and has made it formidable by mtans
of a bank monopoly spread into variou
branches ; which is justly coniidered as one
of the spurious offsprings of this fyltem.
3. By means of unlimited import and ex
cise laws, two other of its offsprings, it has
anticipated the belt resources of the coun
try, and swallowed them all up in future
payments.
4. Because the certificates are generally
got into the hands of wealthy foreign
and domestic fpecuiators, it has transferred
the public wealth into their poflefiion, and
has given them a fee (iraple in the resources
of the country ; while the industrious me
chanic, the laborious farmer, and general
ly the poorer class of people, who are with
out the sphere of speculation, are all made
tributary to the latest posterity to these high
ly favored classes.
5. As these descriptions of men either
live in a foreign land or within the purlieu;
of the Treasury, almost the whole of the
United States, like Roman provinces, will
-ventuaiiy become Vi\bi:t::ry to the of
;ov eminent, aiul one or two
:o\vns, t'Jitl the continual drain:. - the'?, will
"offer, instead of circulating like, bleed in
:he aniniil boeiv to the extremities, and
"erv'rn; to invigorate the whole fyflem, will
;i:hcr be dissipated in luxury and lrcen
tioufuefs at the feat of government, or be
exported to foreign countries for the life of
foreign stock-holder:.
6. By holding out temptations and giving
opportunities, to make enormous profits
without the exertions ofinduftry; it has
drawn people from their habits of produc
tive labour, and has diverted those capitals
which used to be employed in commerce to
the purpose of speculation; while the ini
menfe profits it has afforded, has thrown
such enormous fortunes into the hands of a
few individuals, as are altogether inconsist
ent with a republican government. To il
lustrate some of these positions, shall be the
obje£t of one 01 two future numbers.
BRUTUS.
Philadelphia, March 14, 1792.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
No. 111.
Mr. FreneAlT,
SHOULD the yeomanry of Virginia ef
tablifh agricultural societies in the sev
eral counties of that state, the meeting
might be held and the libraries prefervec
at the different court houles. To ensure
luccefs to such institutions, they should be
gin with a few, after which every farmei
in the cou'itry qualified to be a member
should be admitted ; and to ensure an at
tention to business, that it might be regu
larly tranfafled at every stated meeting o:
the society, five members should be a quo
rum to do business. A committee of cor
respondence might be appointed by eacl
society whose business should be to col
lect and preserve agricultural observation:
or experiments communicated by member:
or others : and at the end of every yeai
publish such of them as the society fhoulc
chink worthy of the attention of the pub
lic. §uch annual communications from e
very part of the Hate* would form a mof:
1 aluable acquisition tss the agricultural in
terest.
Agriculture, like other fcierrces, cannot
je improved by accident or trifling exerti
3n?, few pursuits so much require an unin
:errupted application, and a elofer attenti
on to experiments. It is far from beinj
irrived at that perfeftjon of which it is ea
:>able ; and its being thus retarded in it:
orogrefs, is more owing to the oppression o:
governments than to any other cause.
Sloniieur Poivre lays, that in his travel:
hrough Europe, Africa, and Asia, the na
:ure of the government of every country
hat he viflted was to be diftinguiihed by
he situation of its agriculture. Um,er the
iefpociihi of many kingdoms 111 the east he
bund the fineft foils in the world desolate
ind the people beyond comparison mifera
de and wretched. —'I he agriculture of
: ranee has been ruined by the ambition, the
jrutality and tyranny cf its kings. —'That
)f England will certainly meet with a fimi
ar fate, no: by tlie avowed power of a;i
ibfoiute monarchy, butoy the injidiaus da
ant of financial regulat viis, wilich are carried
:o such an enormous extent, that one lul:
lalfofthe produce of the labour of the
armer is absorbed by the government tin
ier the several names ol taxes, church rates,
>001 rates, stamps, duties, excises, &c.
Whilst the Gongrefs of the United State;
ire implicitly pursuing this wretched anc
jppreflive policy of tiie British cabinet; ii
s proper that the yeomanry of America
hould be attentive to their critical situation
We already witness a severe tonnage dutj
m foreign veflels, by which the intcreff: c:
:he farmers is facrificed to tiie merchants,
:heir agents —a duty 011 fait to nearly it:
ralue which opprefies the farmer more
lian any other citizen, hecaufe he is not on
y obliged to supply his family ant! servant:
Juring the whole year with l'alted provifi
3ns, but also to gi\ e a great quantity to hi:
:att;e to preserve them in health—a lex
:ile law which readers the houi'e of a citi
zen 110 iouger iacred and which prevents
he farm:r from enjoying the just fruits oi
lis induilry.
Com.dering these measures as highly ini
mical to the agiricultur-l interest ; every
bciety instituted lor the support of thai
ntereii lhould ailb be regarded as a poiiti
:al society, as far as concerns the in.medi
ite and eliential rights of the farmer. Tc
preserve a knowledge of such rights, every
-ounty library should be rorniined with
few of the most approved publications on
jolitical and civil society, and the rights ol
nan. Since the glorious revolution ir
r ranee, the queflion which has engagec
:lie attention of philofopliers and rcaijiatcs
iien, has not been what will promote the
grandeur of a monarchy, or the power and
iitiuence of an aristocracy ; but what will
:ontribute to the happiness of the people.
A 1' AR M E R.
March 9.
A few Copies of tbe REPORT oj
'be Secretary of the Treasury, of the
6th inji. on the PUBLIC DEBT,
may be had at this Office.
PARIS, I ec. 16.
WKwi'i the king appealed irunc i-tiorul alTera
i>ly, to announce the mealuies he had puifued
loi the purpole of difpeiling the French emi
grants alletnbled in forne of the German eletto
iates, he was teeeivcd in a manner much mote
agreeable to his feelings than when he tall ap
peared in the fame pijcc. The president was
not seated whilst his majefly was prcfeiit, neither
did he addiels him in the flyle oi an equal, inuci»
lef.s of an inferior, as was the cafe on the foi
mer occasion. He flood all the time, and un
covered, as did-all the membeis ;lo that this
visit to the alfcmbly was not attended with an/
mortifying circumtlance to the king.
The fpecch which his majefly made, was as
follows :
" Gentlemen,
"1 HAVE taken your mefijge of the 29th
of lalt month into mature consideration. In a
cafe that involves the honor of the French peo
ple, and the fafety of the empire, I thought .t
my duty to be myfelf the bearer of my amwer.
The nation cannot but applaud these communi
cations between its ele£ted and its hereditary re-'
prelentative.
" You have invited me to take decisive mea
sures, in order to effedl a ceflation of thole ex
ternal assemblages which keep up a hateful dis
quietude and fermentation in the bo l oin of Fran cc
—which render an opprelEve augmentation 0 f
expence neeeUarv—and expo'e liberty to gr Pat _
er danger than an open and declared war. y ou
desire me to cause declarations to be made to
the neighboring princes, who contrary to the
rules of good mighborhood, and the principles
of the law of nations, protefcl these aflemblages;
that the nation can 110 longer fuffer this want of
refpeft, and these sources o,- hollility. Finallv,
ybu have given me to underfland, that one ge
neral emotion is felt by the nation, and that the
cry of the French is for WAR, in pre.erence
to a ruinous and degrading patiepce.
" Gentlemen, I have long thought that our
circumstances required great circumspection in
our measures ; that having scarcely yet weather
ed the agitations and the storms of a revolution,
and the firlj eflavs of an infant constitution, no
means ought to be neglected that could prelcrve
France from the incalculable evils of war ; these
means I have alwa.s employed. On the one
hand, I have done every thing to recal the
French emigrants to the bofomof their country,
and induce them to fubmh to the new laws
which a great majority of the nation has adopt
ed ; on the other, I have employed amicable
intimations—l have caused foimal and precise
requisitions to be made, to divert the neighbor
ing piinces fiom giving them a fupportcalcula
ted to flatter their hopes and cncourage then) in
their rash design.
" The ecipercr has done all that was to bo ex
pected from a faitnful ally, by forbidding and
difpeifing all assemblages within his dates. °
" My ffieafurcsat the courts of other princes,
have riot been equally fuccefsful. Unaccom
modating anlwers have been given to my requi
sitions.
c< i befe unjufl refulals call for resolutions of
another kind. Ihe nation has manifefted its
wifiies. You have collected them—you have
weighed the consequences— you have exprefied
them to me by your mefl'age. Gentlemen, you
have not anticipated me. As the representa
tive of the people, I felt the people's injuries;
and I am now to inform yoti of the resolution I
have taken to pursue reparation.
'' 1 have cauled a declaration to be made to
Lhe ele£tor of Treves, that if, before the 15th
day of January, he do not put a flop within his
Hates to all collecting of troops, and all hoflile
dispositions on the part of the French, who have
taken refuge-in them, I (hall no longer conlider
him but as the enemy of France. 1 {hall caufc
liinilar declarations to be made to all who favor
aflemblages contrary to the tranquility of the
kingdom ; and by feeuring to foreigners all the
proteflion whicn they ought to ex >ett Irom our
laws, 1 shall have a tight 10 demand afpeedy
and complete repaiation of all the injuries which
Frenchmen may have received.
" I have written to the emperor to engage
him to continue his good offices, and if necefla
ry to exert his authority as head of the empire
to avert the evils which the obstinacy of certain,
members of the Germanic body, if longer per
filled in, cannot tail to occasion—Much may
undoubtedly be expe£led from his interpofltion,
lupported by the powerful influence of his ex
ample ; but I am, at the fame time, making the
most proper military anangements to render
thele declarations rtfpcfted.
"And if they shall not be attended to, then,
gentlemen, it will only remain forme to pro
pole warj war, which a people who has so
lemnly renounced conquefl never makes with- *
out necessity; but which a nation, happy and'
free, knows how to undertake, when its own
fafety, or when honor commands.
" hut in courageouily abandoning ourselves t»
this resolution, lit us haflen to employ the only
means that can afluie its success. Turn your
attention, gentlemen, to the state of the finan
ces—confhm the national credit—watch over
the public fortune. Let your deliberations, al
ways governed by conflitutional principles, take
a grand, high spirited and authoritative course,
the only one that befits the legillators of a great
empiie. Let the conflituted powers refpefl
themselves, in order to be refpetted; let them
give mutual aid inflead of mutual impediment;
and finally, let it appear that they are dillinft,
but not enemies. It is time to Ihew to foreign
nations that the French people, their reprefenta
uves, and their king arc but one." It'is to this union, and also, let us never
forget it, to the respeCt we pay to the govern
ment of other states, that the fafety, the confe
deration, and the glo.y of the empire are attach
ed.
" For me, gentlemen, it would be in vain to
endeavor to surround with disgusts the exercile
of the authoiity which is conlidrd to me. In I
the face of all France I declare that noibing j
shall weary my perseverance, or relax my efforts. ;
It shall not be owing to me that the lav/ does not
become the proteHion of the citizen, and the !
terror of the disturber. 1 shall faithfully pre
serve the.depoiit of the constitution, and no
confidcration shall determine me to fuffer it to j
e infringed, (
" If men, who wifn only for disorder and j
trouble, take occasion fiom this firmntfs, to ca
lumniate mv inientions, 1 will not sloop to re
pel by words the injurious suspicions they may |
chufe to circulate. Those who watch the pro- (
grefs of government with an attentive, but un-j
prejudiced eye, must fee that I never depart |
from the conflitutiorra! line, and that I feel pro- j
soundly how glorious it is to be the king of a free'
people." _ I
This conclusion was followed by long conti-!
r.ued fhou'.s of Bravo ! Long live the King of j
the French ! |
The President immediately made the follow-t
ing reply to the king : j
" SIRE, _ j
" The National Assembly will take into
confiderati®n the proportions which you
have just made to it, and will by message,
communicate to you the refnlt of its delib
erations."
The President was laid under the neces
sity of being thus concise, by an order of
the Aflembly; for the king having sent a
note to apprise tue President of his inten
tion to appear in the Assembly, M. Lacroix
moved, that it was not known to what sub
jeCt his Majesty was going to direct their
attention, it would be improper that the
President should fay any thing which might
be coiiftrued to pledge the Aflembly to any
measure upon which it should not have pre
viously had time to deliberate. He then
read the words in which the President af
terwards addrefled the King ; and moved,
that the Prelident fnould be directed to a
dopt them, as his answer to the King's
speech.
After his Majesty had left the house, the
President resigned the chair to a member
who had filled it before, and retired for the
purpose of drawing up an address to the
King, in the name of the Aflembly. When
he returned, he read it to the house. The
firftfentence produced a long debate —It
was as follows :
" Sire,
The National Assembly comes to relieve
itfelf from the weight of that silence, which
the desire of rendering the expressions of its
sentiments more striking, and more lasting,
had condemned it to observe."
M. Conthon said this sentence seemed to
imply, that the Assembly was forrv it had
not departed from the respect which was at
all times due to the King.
After some time spent in debating, it was
rcfo'.ved, that the whole of this sentence
Ihou'id be omitted.
Other parts of the address underwent
difenffion ; and at last it was reduced to the
following form:
" Sire,
" By the language which your Majesty
has held, the National Assembly, witli trans
port, recognizes the King 01 the French.
Those cordial and mutual communications
which are the wish, and wilt prove the
fafety of the empire, have made it feel
more th?n ever the value of a good under
standing between the legislative and t ie ex
ecutive powers. The Aflembly will at
tend, with its whole strength, to the deci
sive measures which you have communica
ted to it : and fliould the order of events at
length make it necessary that they fliould
take effect, the National Aflembly promises
you a silore ample harvest of glory, than ever
was reaped by any of your ancestors. It
promises to hold out to Europe the novel
fight of what a great people, whose every
hand is seconded by every heart, and who
oarneftly wifhingfor only peace and justice,
will, by themselves, and for themselves,
meet their enemies in the field, can do,
when their exertions are called forth by in
sult andoutrrge.
" Powerful interests, and sweet enjoy
ments await you, From the Rhine to the
Pyrenees, from the Alps to the Ocean, all
will be under the eye of a good king, and
•fe.ured bv a rampart of men equally free
and faithful.
Tliefe, Sire, are your family—they are
your friends who have never deserted you.
Al! the representatives of the people, all
true Frenchmen, have sworn to devote
their lives in defence of the national digni
ty, of the conftittmon, which they are
bound by their cath to maintain, oi the
King, whose throne stands upon the unsha
ken bafts of that constitution."
That we might not interrupt what rela
ted to the King's speech, and to the address
in reply to it, we reserved for this place an
account of what the minister of war said to
the Aflembly after his Majesty's departure.
He said, that the King's firft wish was for
peace ; that all his negociations had peace
fiar their objeCls, but that he had not in the
mean time neglected to pr.t hrmfelf in a
condition to be prepared for war, if it
should be forced upon him. He observed.
that the king had sworn to maintain the
con(lit;ition, and would therefore avail him
felf of every means for defending it.—He
informed the Aflembly that his Majesty had
Igiven hiin orders to assemble 150,000 men
:on the frontiers in the tourfe of a month;
[and he was of opinion, that the collecting
of so pre at and formidable a force in so
jlhort a time, would not be impossible ; and
'therefore he flattered himfelf that he should
be fnccefsful in the enterprize. He laid it
I would be necessary to deftrov that spirit
despondency, which would represent
[France as borne down and dejected when
1 ihe had to defend her liberty against a coali
■ tion of some few despots ; as if she was no
: longer that fame France,which, When fight
ing for the glory of one man, had nobly
j withstood the moll powerful confederacies.
, He said he was well aware there would
! nor be wanting persons who would fay that
' even among the king's mijiifters there
J were some who were enemies to the niea
| lures which his majesty had just proposed :
i but he trusted this spirit of distrust would
j not find its way into the National Assem
bly. He said he was going to set out for
'• the frontiers, that he might be able to judge
1 111 person of the state of the fortifications and
!of the army ; and endeavour to make the
officers and soldiers mutually place confi
dence in each other to the former he
wouid fay, tliat treachery was a crime for
which men of rank were not to be suspected;
to the latter he would fay, that the officers
were bound by their oath, and by their ho
nor, to defend the constitution established
by the revolution, and that the fafety of
the empire must ultimately depend upon
the discipline of the army. The national
guards, he observed, who hadfaved France,
would not fail to defend her, and wanted
nothing but experience to make them the
bulwark of the nation, in his, absence
the minister of the home department, he
said, would transaCt the business of the war
office; and he took upon himfelf therefpon
flbility for every act which this minister
should do in the Wat l Department.
Three armies were thought necessary, and
were to be put under the command of
Generals Rochambeau, Luckuer, and La
Fayette, three officers, in whose patriotism
and abilities the nation has the most un
bounded confidence : the king wishes that
the laws for the organizing the army had
left it in his power to raise each of the
two former to the rank of Majhal of France ;
and as the fafety of the empire ought to be
considered as the fuprfime law, so he trust
ed that the Kational Aflembly would be
glad to fee that eminent military dignity
beftowedupon two fuchmen as Generals
Rochambeau and Luckner.
An encreafe in the public expenditure
would be a necessary consequence of the
measures already taken, but France would
notftanA higgling when its liberty was at
stake : and the ptblic creditors have less
reason to be alarmed at an increase of ex
pence for such an object, than at the con
tinuance of alarms and difhirbance ', which
would perpetuate the reign of anarchy, de
stroy credit, and thus cause what remained
of specie in circulation to disappear. The
signal for war, he said would be the signal
for the return of public order.
He observed that, in the immense and
perhaps bold undertaking in which he was
about to embark, he mignt have omitted to
communicate to theAf.embly minute details
but he certainly had stated all the great
measures which he meant to carry into ex
ecution. He concluded by exprefling his
hopes, that the facrifice which the king
had made to the public of the dearest af
fections of his heart, would more strong
ly attach to his majesty's person all thole
who, like himfelf, had indiffolubly connect
ed their deitiny with the liberty of France.
Mavifejlo of the Emperor agoirjl France.
Prince Kauuitz Reitberg, to the French ambas
sador at Vienna.
OJjicc cf the Chancellor of the Court and. State.
Prince Kaunitz Reitberg, the chancellor of the
court and state, having prefentcd to the emperor
the official communication made by the French
ambsffador,'of an ostensible dispatch from Mr.
de LcfTart, dated the 14th of Nov. last, he has
been anthorifed to express, in return to the said
ambafiadur, an answer to the laid dispatch, with
that entire freedom which his imperial majesty
thinks it his duty to observe on all objects rela
tive to the important crisis in which the kingdom
of France is.
The chancellor has, in consequence, the honor
to communicate on his fide, that the eledlor of
Treves, has also sent to the emperor a note, which
the minister of France was charged to present
him at Coblentz ; as likewise the answer which
the ele&or gave to said note ; that this prince at
the fame time, had made known to his imperial
majesty, that he had adopted, refpe&ing the af
fcmblage and arming of the French refugees and
emigrants, with regard to the furnifhing them
with arms and warlike ammunition, the fame
principles and regulations as had been put in force
in the Austrian Low Countries.
But that discontent began to spread between
his fukjedls and those in the environs ; that the
tranquility of his frontiers and states were likely
to be troubled by incursions and violence, not
withftauding those yife meafuve*, that the
eledlor claimed tfie afßftance of the emperor, rn
the event realized his fears.
That the emperor is perfectly tranquil on the
justice and moderate intentions of the Most
Chrifiian King, and not lei's convinced of the
,2.1 eat interest which the French government hag
Uj preventing foreign sovereign princes from be
ing provoked to a<£t against them by force of arms
- —but daily experience shews, that there does not
appear principles of {lability and moderation
cn cugh in France, in the fuhordination of her
powers, and elpeciallv in the provinces and
nicipalities, to prevent the apprehtnfion that the
force of arms must be exercifcd in ipite of the
king's intentions, and in spite of the dangers of
i the conferences.
His Imperial Majefly, necelfiialed as well by
his friendship for the Ele£ior of Treves as by the
conlideration he owes to theinierefls in Germany
as a co-eflate, and to his own interest as a neigh
bour, has enjoined Marlhal de Bender, Cotn
imandant-General of the troops in the Pays Bas,
jto march to the States of his Electoral Highness
jfpeedyand efficacious succours, should he be at
tacked with hofUle inicurfions, or even imminent
ly mcnaced -with such.
The Emperor is too fineerely attached to his
j Chrifiian Majesty ; and takes too great a .part in
j the well being of France, and the general iepofe
i not to dcliie ardently the prevention of this ex,-
(tremity, and the infallible conferences which it
J will produce, as well on the pajt of the Chief
! and the States of the German empire, as of other
j lovereigns, who have united in concert to main
j tam the ptiblic tranquility, and for the fafetv and
I honour of crowns : and it is in consequence o(
this latter that the Chancellor Prince Kauriitz is
! ordered to be open and unreserved to the Am
j baflador of France, to whom he has the honour
j of repeating his afl'urances of having the moll
distinguished consideration.
Vienna, December 21,1701.
(A tiue Copy) JDe Less Art.
Paris, January 2, 1792.
PHILADELPHIA.
March 15, 1792.
Yesterday arrived in this city about
fifty Indians, from the fix nations, intended
to ast in concert with the American army
against the Hostile Indians.
The latter end of January a fleet of fif
teen veflels failed from Halifax [N. S. ]
hound to Sierra Leona in Africa, having
onboard 1200 free blacks, that have cho
sen to emigrate to Africa.
The bill for reducing the portage on
newspapers still lies over, but it may yet
be pafled this session, it being a very short
one, involving no conftitutioual principle ;
and as every gentleman in the House may
be supposed to have longfince made up hi'
mind on the subject, the yeas and nays may,
without any debate, decide its fate it
less time, than is usually spent in reading
a;:d referring a private'petition. \_A.D.Ad._
The President of the United States, bj
j and with the advice and consent of the Se
tiate.has appointed the following gentle
; men, officers of the twelve companies o)
jRu le-Men, to be raised agreeable to ar
act pafied the sth inftsnt, for the more ef
! fact ual defence of the frontiers.
Pennsylvania.
! Captains.—Edward Butler, of Allegany;
John Guthrie, Weftmoreland; Richard
j Sparks, Allegany ; Wm. Faulkner, Wafh
j ington; Uriah Springer, Fayette; John
j Cook, Northumberland.
Lieutenants,— William Smith, Washington;
John Climmings, Weftmoreland; Samuel
! Vance, Fayette ; Nathaniel Hufton, Wash
ington ; William Steedman, Northumber
land ; Daniel T, Jennifer, Allegany.
Enfigvs—Robert I'urdy, Mifflin ; John
Kelto, Dauphin ; Robert Lee, Northum
berland ; John Steele, Cumberland ; Da
vid Hall, Weftmoreland; Reason Beall,
Washington.
Virginia.
Captains—Benjamin Biggs, of Ohio; John
Crawford, Ohio ; Thomas Lewis, Bote
tourt ; William Lewis, Wythe; Hugh
Caperton, Greenbriar ; James Stevenfcn,
Berkeley.
Lieutenants—James Glenn, Berkeley ; Ro
bert Craig, Rufl'el ; Wm. Clark, Louisville,
Kentucky ; John Boyer, Boutetourt; Ben
jamin Lockwood, Ohio ; Benjamin Stro
ther, Culpepper.
Enjigns—Patrick Shirkey, Botetourt>
ArchibaldGray,Greenbriar; StephenTrigg>
Kentucky; James Hawkins, Botetourt j
Baker Davidfon, Bath ; Hugh Brady,Ohio.
European News to Jan. 10.
Paris, Jan. j.—M. de Choifeul GoufHer
is named ambassador to the court of Lon
don, and M. de Mouftier to Constantinople.
M. St. Croix, ambassador from the king of
France to the elector of Triers (Circle of
the Lower Rhine) arrived at Coblentz, the
place of his destination, on the Ift instant.
M. la Fayette is arrived at Metz (a city
of Germany about 180 miles east of Paris,
Ifubjeft to France) where he was received
with every mark of patriotic distinction.
Indeed, his whole journey was a kind of
ovation, for,wherever he passed, whether
by day or by night, he found the national
guards drawn out to do him honor.—They
who wish to find (omethhlg to blame in
every thing, represent the national allem
-I'iy's not having included him in the decree
for conferring the rank of marlhatl on M.
Luckner ;mc! M. Rochambeau, as an ast of
ingratitude. . They forget that the decree
vvsa palled cn the express recommendation
of. tii« king; that Al. la Fayette is too
young an a.iicer to be included in such a re
commendation, and that for the alTeinbly
to have gone beyond the recommendation,
would have been an infringement of the
royal prerogative.
If the German Hates comply with the
king's requisition (declaring as enemies all
German powers that should countenance or
iffilt the French princes after the 15th of
January ) France will then have no pretext
tor hostilities. If they do not, (be cannot
retract either with honor or with fafety.
The petty dates will not expose themselves
:o the refentmei.t of France, without pofi
:ive afl'urauces of support from the empe
ror, and if he be resolved to support the
;mi,grants, concessions will serve only to
confirm his relolution.
Tranflatedfrom a French Paper.
Genoa, Du. 20. Mr. de Semonville, mi
lifler of Fiaijee at-this court, conducts himlelf
in such a manner here as to have gained univer-
I .jl love and esteem tor the French nation. Be
fore hia arrival we had the moll horrid account
of the man and his principles ; and for a confi
cierable time the principal members of our go
vernment were peflered with anonymous letters,
mentioning him to be employed in fomenting
die moll odious and filly dcGgns to our disad
vantage. Tliefe libels have been discovered to
be the work of certain French emigraitsin Italy
—but they have made no impression, and Mr.
de Semonville is universally elleemed for his
talents and wifdom.—lf those people bad any
knowlrdge of our government and of the temper
of the Genoese, they would be convinced that
nothing is so absurd as to attempt a revolution in
our republic. We are, it is hoc, governed by
an ariltocracy, but it is reflricled to the exercijeof
political rights only. It is inverted with no other
privileges whatever. The members of the aris
tocracy receive no wages for their labour in ad
ministering government, and all lucrative pla
ces are occupied by citizens of the second rank.
Amongst us every peifon enjoys his civil rights
in their plenitude. When the Genoese expel
led the Aullrians from this republic, without the
content of then noblelfe, they might have sti
pulated for the right of governing themselves ;
Dut, being wholly occupied in commerce and
ihe arts ot induflry, they thought it not woitit
their while to alfume the exercise of their poli
tical ligbis, the du;ie» of which would have been
over-burdensome to them. They therefore left
them in the hands of the ariflocratic body, who
have always exercised their authority with juflice
and moderation. We do not aifert that out
government is perfetl; but its imperfections are
of little consequence, and are submitted to with
out murmuring, becjufe we have no middle
class, or body of tiers clat, between the noblelfe
and the great body of the people.—lt would
feein that a fufficient diftintlion hr.s not been
made between a legal or confitutional arijfocracy,
and an anjlocracy oj influence. The foimer, as
that of Genoa, governs by fixed laws, and is re
sponsible to the people for any arbfirary or un
jufl use it makes of its authority j the latter,
like that which lately oppressed France, governs
(if we may so speak) by light of conquest. Such
apower invades the rights of all, devours all,
opprclfes and tyrannizes over the people, but al
ways under the name of the prince, who alone
is made refponCble for the abuse of power. We
have heard several of the emigrated French no
blemen compare themselves to perfonsofthe
lame rank among the Genoefe —But what have
hey ever done for the people ?—They were
wholly occupied in (hating the public plunder.
Here, 011 the contrary, every step we take we
>e a monument of the patiiotifm of the Geno
:fe nobility —No city in the world possesses so
>rcat a number of public buildings, and these
ire all of their erecting. An immense number
if public works are now in hand, all of which
lave originated with the nobility, and confer
eal honor upon those generous citizens, who
wish rather to enrich their country, than (hare
ler spoils."
""" » wan-——
t|t In our lajl {page 1) the ASlofN. JerJey to
'atify certain amendments to the ccmflitution of the
'Jnited States, should have been dated Nov. 20,
1789, in flead of Aug. 3, 1790.
V Mr. PALMER defircs ike Public to take
totice, that at halfpafl ten o'clock, A.M. cn Sun
lay next he will deliver a Discourse at the Long
cam in Church-Alley, againjl the divinity of Jcfus
'hnjl.
%* A few' Copies of the Report of the
Secretary of the Treasury on the Au for
laying Duties on Spirits, &c, for fate at
this OJice.
PRICE of STOCKS.
Six per cents, per £. - 22/, 1-2.
Three per cents, - - 12/61-4.
Deferred fix per cents, - 13J4.
Final Settlements - 19f.
Indents - -
Bank ftxk i > fharej, 73—per sent, advanceThe fttppofed tendency of the a& to injure in
eultry, and interfere with the business of distil
ling, is endeavored to be supported by some gene
ral and some special reasons j both having rela
tion to the effeCt of the duty upon the manufac
ture*
Those of the firft kind affirm generally, that
duties on home manulaCiurcs are impolitic, be
cause they tend to discourage them j that they
ate particularly fo } when they are laid on articles
manufactured from the produce of the country,
because they have then the additional effeCt of in
juring agriculture \ that it is rhe general policy
of nations to proteCt and promote their own ma
nufaCtutes 5 efjecialiy those which are wrought
out of domestic materials j that the law in quel
tion interferes with this policy.
Observations of this kind admit of an easy an
swer. Duties on manufactures tend to
them or not, According to the circuruftances un
der which they are laid, and are impolitic or not,
according to the fame circumstances. When 2
manufacture is in its infancy, it is impolitic ti
tax it i because the tax would be both unproduc
tive, and would add to the difficulties, which na
turally impede the firft attempts to eltabliflr .1
new manufacture; so as to endanger its success.
But when a manufacture (as in the cafe of dil
tilled spirits of the United States) is arrived at
maturity, it is as fit an article of Taxation as an)
other. No good reason can be assigned, why tkc:
consumer of a domestic commodity should not
contribute fbmething to the public revenue, when
the consumer of a foreign commodity contributes
to it largely. And as a general rule it is not t.
be disputed, that duties on articles of con
sumption are p?tid by the consumers.
To the manufacture itfelf the duty is no inju
ry, if an equal duty be laid on the rival foreign
article. And when a greater duty is laid upon the
Jatter than upon the former, as in the prelent in
stance, the difference is a bounty on the domestic
article, and operates as an encouragement of the
manufacture. The manufacturer can afford tc
fell his fabric the cheaper, in proportion to rhat
difference, and is so far enabled to undersell and
fupp'.ant the dealer in the foreign article.
The principle of the objection would tend tc
confine all taxes to imported articles, and would
deprive the government of which are
indifpenfible to a due provifionfor the public fafe
tv and welfare ; contrary to the plain intention
of the constitution, which gives express power to
employ thole resources when necessary j a power
which is found in all governments, and is efl'ential
to their efficiency, and even to their exigence.
Duties on articles of internal production and
manufacture form in every country the principal
sources of revenue. Those on Imported articles
can only be carried to a certain extent, without
defeating their objeCt; by operating either as pro
hibitions, or as bounties upon smuggling. They
are moreover in some degree temporary ; for as
the growth of manufactures diminiflies the quan
tum of duty on imports, the public revenue, ceas
ing to arise from that lource, mutt be derived
from articles which the national industry has sub
stituted for those previously imported. If the go
vernment cannot then resort to internal means
for the additional supplies, which the exigencies
ef every nation call for, it will be unable to
form its duty or even to preserve its existence.
The community mud be unprotected, and the fa
cial compaCt be dilTolved.
For the fame reasons, that a duty ought not tc
be laid on an article manufactured out of the pro
duce of the country (which is the point mod infill
ed upon) it ought not to be laid upon the produce
itfelf, nor consequently upon the land, which i<
the instrument of that produce j because taxes
are laid upon land as the fund out of which the
income of the proprietor is drawn, or, in otnei
words, on account of its produce. There oughl
therefore, on the principle of the objection, to be
neither taxes on land nor on the produce of land,
nor on articles manufactured from that produce,
And if a nation ihould be in a condition to sup
ply itfelf, with its own manufactures, there coulc
then be very little or no revenue, of course ther<
must be a want of the essential means of national
justice and national security.
Politions like these, however well meant bj
those who urge them, refute themselves, because
they tend to the difiolution of government, b)
rendering it incapable of providing for the objeCt!
for which it was instituted.
However true the allegation that it Is and
ought to be the prevailing policy of nations tc
cherish their own manufactures, it is equally true
that nations in general lay duties for the purpose
of revenue on their own manufactures ; and it is
obvious to a demonstration that it may be done
without injury to them. The mod fuccefsful na
tions in manufactures have drawn the largest re
venues from the most ufefulof them. It merits
particular attention, that ardent spirits are an ar
ticle, which has been generally deemed and made
use of, as one of the fitted objeCts of revenue, and
to an extent in other countries, which bears no
comparison with what has been done in the United
States.
The special reasons alluded to are of different
kinds.—
I. It is said, that the aCI in question by laying
a smaller additional duty on foreign spirits, than
the duty on home-made spirits, has a tendency to
discourage the manufacture of the latter.
This objection merits consideration, and as far
as it may appear to have foundation, ought to be
•bviated.
The point however seems not to have been
viewed in all respeCts in a correCt light.
Before the present constitution of the United
States began to operate, the regulations- of the
different states, respeCting distilled spirits were ve
ry difiimilar. In some of them duties were laid
on foreign spirts only, in others, on domestic as
well as foreign. The absolute duty in the former
instances, and the difference of duty in the latter,
was upon an average, considerably less than the
present difference in the duties on foreign and
home-made spirits. If to this be added the effeCt
of the uniform operation of the existing duties
throughout the United States, it is easy to infer
that the frtuation of our own distilleries is in the
main much better, as far as they are affected by
he laws, than it was previous to ibe pa (Ting of"
my att of the United States upon the fubjed
riiey have therefore upon the whole gained m a te
la 11 v under the system which has been pursued by
he national government.
The firft law of the United States on this head
aid a duty of no more than eight cents per gallon
>n those of Jamaica proof. The second encreafed
he duty on foieign spirits Jto twelve cents pergal
an of the lowest proof, and by certain gradations
o fifteen cents per gallon of Jamaica proof. The
alt ad places the duty at twenty cents per gallon
if the lowest proof, and extends it b) the like gra
lationsi to twenty-five cents per gallon of Jamaica
iroof, laying also a duty of eleven cents per gal
on on home made spirits difttlled from foreign
naterials of the lowest proof, with a like gradual
xtenfion to fifteen cents per gallon of Jamaica
jroof; and a duty of nine cents per gallon on
iome made spirits diftilied from domestic materi
-11 s of the lowest proof, with the like gradual ex
ention to thirteen cents per gallon of Jamaica
>roof.
If the transition had been immediate from the
irft to the iaft law, it could not have failed to have
>een confiJered as a change in favor of our own
liftilJerie?, as far as the race of duty is concerned.
The mean duty on foreign spirits by the firit law
vas nine cent?, by the last the mean extra duty
>n foreign spirits is in fad about eleven cents, a
t regards spirits diftiiled from foreign materials,
ind about thirteen, as it regards spirits di(rilled
"rom domeJHc materials. In making this compu
ation it is to be adverted to, that the four firft
legrees of proof mentioned in the law correspond
vith the different kinds of spirits usually import
id, while the generality of those made in the Uni
:ed States are of the lowest class of proof.
Spirits from domestic materials derived a dou
>le advantage from the last law, that is, from the
ncreafed rate of duty on foreign imported spirits,
and from a higher rate of duty on home-made fpi
its of foreign materials.
But the intervention of the second law has fer
fed to produce in some places a different i/npreflion
if the bufmefs, than would have happened with
>ut it. By a considerable addition to the duties
>n foreign spirits, without laying any thing or
hose of home manufacture, it has served to give
o the last law the appearance of taking away z
>art of che advantages previously fecureu to the
lomeftic distilleries. It seems to have been over
ooked, that the second ad ought in reality to be
reviewed only as an intermediate step to the ar
rangement finally contemplate 4 by the legiftature:
md that as part of a system, it has upon the whole
jperated in favor of the national distilleries. ihe
:hing to be considered is the substantial existing
iirference in favor of the home manufacture, as
:he law now stands.
The advantage, indeed, to the diflillation of
spirits from the produce of the country arising from
:Jje difference between the duties on >pirit& uittilleu
from foreign and those diftilied fr m domestic rna
;erials, is exclusively the werk of the ia(t ad, and
is an advantage which has not been properly ap
preciated by those diftiliers of spirits from home
produce, who have complained of the law, a*
hurtful to their rranufadure.
Causes entirely foreign to the law itfelf have al
so afiifted in producing misapprehension. Tht
approximation of the price of home-made fpiriti
to that of foreign fpirit3, which has of late taker
place, and which is attributed to the operation o,
the ad in question is in a great degree owing to tht
circumstances, which have tended to raise tb<
price of molasses in the Weft-india market, anc
to an extra impo:tation of foreign spirits prioi
to the firft of July last, to avoid the payment o
the additional duty which then took place.
1c is stated in the petition from Salem, that pre
vious to the last adt, the price of domestic to fo
reign spirits was as 1/9 to of the money 0
Mafifachufetts, per gallon, and that since that ad
it has become as 3/3 to 4/2.
It is evident that a rile from 1/9 to 3/3 per gal
lon, which would be equal to 20 cents, is not to bt
attributed wholly to a duty of eleven cents. Jn
deed if there were a concurrence of no other cause
the inference would be very different from that in
tended to be drawn from the fad, for it would e
vince a profit gained to the diliiiier of more thai
eighty per cent on the duty.
It is however meant to be understood, that thl:
approximation of prices occasions a greater impor
tation and consumption of foreign, and a less con
sumption of domestic spirits than formerly. Hovi
far this may or may not be the cafe, the Secreta
ry is not now able to fay with precision $ but nc
uds have come under his notice officially, vfhicl;
serve to authenticate the suggestion. And it mud
be considered, as possible, that representations o
this kind, are rather the effed of apprehenfior
than of experience. It would even be not unna
tural, that a considerable enhancement of the pri
ces of the foreign article should have led to
greater consumption of the domestic article, as th<
cheapest of the two, though dearer itfelf than for
merly.
But while there is ground to believe that th<
suggestions which have been made on this poir
are in many refpeds inaccurate and mifconceivec
there are known circumstances, which seem t(
render advifeable, some greater difference betweer
the duties on foreign and on home-made spirits,
These circumstances have been noticed in the re
port of the Secretary on the fubjed of manufac
tures, and an alteration has been proposed by lay
ing two cents in addition upon imported spirits ol
the lowest proof, with a proportional increase on
the higher proofs, and by deduding one cent from
the duty on the lowest proof of home made spirits,
with a proportional diminution in lefped to the
higher proofs.
This alteration would bring the proportion 01
the duties nearly to the standard, which the peti
tioner Hendrick Doyer, who appears likely to be
well informed on the fubjed, represents as the pro
per one to enable the diflillation of geneva to b;
carried on with the fame advantage as before tht
pafling of the ad. He observes that the duty or
home-made geneva being 9 cents, the additiona
duty on foreign ought to have been 12 cents. B>
the alteration proposed, the proportion will be a;
10 to 8 which is little different to that of 12 to 9,
It is worthy of remark, that the famepetitionej
Hates, that previous to the pafling of t!,e oj
which he complains, hr. 44 could Jell his geneva
16 1-4 per cent, under the price of Holland gene
va, but that he cannot dost at present, and in iu
ture, lower than 14 per cent." If, lie all
ilatrs, the quaiity of his geneva be equal to thai
Df Holland, and if his meaning be as it appears tc
bp, that he can now afford to lell his geneva lower
by 14 per cent, than the geneva of Holland, it will
follow that the ina;jufadure of that article is in s
very thriving trainj even under the present rateoi
duties. For a cifference of 14 per cent* in the
(>r3ce is capable of giving a decided piefeience tc
the sale of tiic domestic arcicle.
11. it is obje&ed that the duty, by being laid in
the firft inlfance upon the diltiller, inffead of the
:onfumcr, makes a larger capital neceflary to car
ry on the bufinefsj and in this countrv, where ca
pitals are not large, puts the national diltillers un
jer disadvantages.
But this inconvenience, as far as it has founda
tion, in the state of things, is efi'entially obviated
by the credits given. Where the duty is payable
upon the quantity distilled, a credit is allowed,
which cannot be less than fix, and may extend to
line months. Where the duty is charged on the
:apacity of the still, it is payable half yearly. Suff
icient time is therefore atlowed to raise the duty
; rom the sale of the article, which fupcrfedes the
iccefiity of a greater capital. It is well known,
:hat the article is one ufuaiiy fold for cafii, or at
liort credit. Ifthefe oblervations are not applica
>le to diltilleries in the interior country, the fame
nay be said in a great degree of the objection it
elf. The courf'e of the business in that quarter,
•enders a considerable capital less neceflary than
;lfewhere« The produce of the distiller's own
arm, or of the neighbouring farms, brought to be
liltilled upon /hares or compcnlations in the arti
:le itfelf, constitute the chief business of the dif
:iHeries in the remote parts of the country. In
:he comparatively few instances, in which they
may be prosecuted as a regular business, upon a
arge fcale,,by force of capital, the oblervations
which have been made will fubffantially apply.
The collection of the duty from the diftiJler has,
an the other hand, several advantages. It con
rributes to equalitj, by charging the article in the
Srft stage of its progress, which diffufes the duty
imong all ciaffes alike. It the better secures the
:olle£tion of the revenue, by confining the respon
sibility to a smaller number of ptifons, and fim
lifying the procels. And it avoids the necessity
as to great a number of officers as would be re
quired in a more diffufe fyftein of colle&ion, ope
4tlng immediately upon purchalers and confu
uers. Besides, that the latter plan would tranf
r, whatever inconveniencies may be incident to
lie collection, from a smaller to a greater number
>f pcrfons.
111. It is alledged that the infpe&ion of the
>fiicers is injurious to the business of diftillmg, by
aving open its secrets or myfferies.
Dstieient diliiilers there is no doubt, pra&ife,
n certain respects, different methods in the course
)f their bufinels, and have different degrees of
kill. But it may well be doubted whether in a
lulinefs so old and so much diffufeJ as that of the
liftillation of spirits, there are at this day secrets
>f consequence to tne pollefTors.
There will at leaff be so hazard in tak : ng ir
or granted, that none such exist in regard to the
iiftiilation of rum from mola(Te» or fugai,
>r of the f irits from grain usually called whif-
Icey, or of branuies from the fruits of this
:ountry. The cases in which the allegations are
made w:th molt colour, apply to geneva, and pcf
»aps to certain cordials.
It is probable, that the course of the business
"night and would always be such, as in fadt to in
volve no inconvenience on this fcote. But as the
:ontrary is affirmed, and as it isdcfirable to obvi-
Ke complaint as far as it can be done, consistent-
V with essential piinciples and objedts, it may not
E>e upadvifeabJe to attempt a remedy.
It is to be prefumrd, that if any secrets exist,
hev relate to a primary process, particularly the
-nixture of the ingredients j this, it is fuppofeable 3
:annot take a greater time each day, than twe
hours. If therefore, the officers of inlpe&ion
vere enjoined to forbear their vifirs to the part ol
he diftiliery commonly made use of for such pro
:efs, during a space not exceeding two iv urs each
lay to be notified by the difti'ler, there is ground
o conclude that it would obviate the objedtion.
(The remainder in our next.)
. . *
aw ay cn JVednefday night lafl y a Negri
*■ Alan, about twenty-three year:' old ; bad on <5
ight coloured jhort coat : tock with bim a pair oj
'eatber breeches and a pair of green Jit/ff do. a bea
ver bat half worn, narrow brim and deep crown j
t fair of boots ; Jlriped cotton and Jilk flocking:—
be is Jl'tm made—reads and writes a legible bar.d—
bah / informed, procured a pejs and a ccrtif
cateof his being a free man. It is probable be will
tndeavor to get on board some vejjel, either at this
blacc or New-York. He. has a jmall Jore under his
chin-, occajivned by cutting out a wen. I will give.
Ten Dollars reward for fecufing bim\ if in this city,
Twenty Dollars if taken in Ntw-Y*>rk, fir any other
place of the fame dijiance, and pay all rtafr.nuble ex-
Itences•
ANDREW MOORE,
Spruce -Jlreety No. ili.
Philadelphia, March 9, 1792.*
TEN POUNDS REWARD.
RAN away, a Negro lacl about seventeen
years old, who left the fubferiber
sometime in August last. He goes by the
name of Leven ; is of a yellowifti colour,
ind about five feet high. He is supposed
:o have gone to the Delaware state. Any
person bringing the said negro to the fub
criber, (hall be entitled to the above re
ward ; and any person giving such infor
mation as will enable the owner to reco
ver him again, shall be entitled to one hali
the above sum, which will be paid by
Thomas Miles.
Feb, 14, 1792. St. 1 a.w
Authentic Prices Current at Pkiladelphit.
[Dollar equal to 100 Cents.]
ASHES Poc per ton 90 Dols. to ico
A flies pearl 137 — — 14a
Bacon flitches, per lb. 6 1-2 cents
Bacon {houlders 6 do.
Bees wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27
Brandy, Coniac pr gl. 3 dol. 50 c.
Brandy, common, 1 do!# 26 c.
Butter, in kegs, per lb. 10 c. to il
Coals, per bushel, 20 c. to 22
Cofr.'e, per lb. 17 c.
Cotton, per lb. 26 c. to 37
FJax feed, per bulhel, 85 c. to 90
Flour, super fine, per barrel, 5 dols. 13 c.
Common, ■ ■ 4 dols. 74c.
Burr middlings, best, perbrl. 4 dols 13 c.
Meal Indian 2 dols. 67 c.
Rye 3 dols.
Snip fluff, per cwt, 1 dol. to 1 dol. 33 c.
jin, Holland, per cast, 4 dols.
jinl'eng, per lb. 20 c. to 24
jrain, barley, per bushel, 60 c. to 63
best Hulled, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per buftiel, 40 c.
Indian corn, 40 c. 44, Oats 26 c. pr. bufli.
Rye 50 c. to 54, Wheat 90 to 93, pr. do.
Hpms, per lb. 8 c. t® 9
biemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67c.
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9 c. to 11
Indigo, Carolina, per lb. 40 c. to 1 dol.
iron, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
Castings, per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nail-rods per ton 96 dols.
Pig, per ton, 24 dols. to 26 dols. 67 c.
Sheet, per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
Lard, hogs, per lb. 9 c. to 10
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
In pigs, 5 dols. 33 c. to 5 dols. 67 r.
Red, 6 dols. 40 c. to O dols. 67 c.
White, 10 dols. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Vlvrtle wax per lb. 18 c.
Violates, per gal. 46 c. to 50
Pitch, per barrel, j dol. 73 c. to 2 dols,
(irk, Burlington, per barrel, 11 dols
Lower County, do. 10 dols.
Carolina, do. 9 dols.
H.ice, per too lb. 2 dols. 67 c.
per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 dols. 67 c*
R.um, Antigua, per gallon, 90 c.
Barbadoes, do. do. 77 c.
New-England, &c. 59 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. J2 c.
Windward Jfland, 80 to 83 c.
snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
Sugar, Havanira, white, per lb. 16 to 17 c.
Brown, per lb. 1 <; c.
Muscovado, per cwt. 13 dols. to 15 dols.
Lump, per lb, 20 c.
Loaf, single refiaed, 23 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 33 c.
Tallow, refined, per lb. 9 c.
Tar, New-Jexley, 24 gal. to the brl. 1 dol.
Carolina, 32 gal. 1 dol. 33 c. to 1 dol. 67 c.
Tea, Hyson, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
H>fon skin, 53 c. to 67
Sou/hong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 34 c. to 36
Tobacco, James River, best. per cwt. 3 dols. 60 c.
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 2 dols. 67 c. to 3 dols.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 2 dols. 50 c. to 3 dols.
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl. 33 c. to 8 dl.
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, 2 dols. 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dols. 23 c.
Carolina, new, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dols.
Carolina, old, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dole.
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. 67 c. to 2 dols.
Wine, Madeira, per pipe, 106 dl. 67 c. to 2CO dl.
Lisbon, 96 dols. to icc
Teneriffe, per gal. 51 c. to 60
Fayal, » —44 c. 49
Port, per pipe, 106 dols. 67 c. to 120 dols
Ditto, in bottles, per doz. 4 dols.
Claret, ditto, ditto. 4 dols. 6C.
Champaign, ditto, do. 8 dols.
Sherry, per gal. 90 c. to 1 dol. 20.
DiJlriEl of Pennfylvanla, to wit :
BE it remembered, That on the fourteenth
day of February, in the fifteenth year
of the independence of the United States
of America, H. H. BrAckenridoe, of
the said diftrift, hath deposited in this of
fice, the title of a Book, the righ: whereof
the claims as author, in the words follow
ing, to wit: Modern Chivalry, contain
ing the adventures of Captain John Farrago,
2nd TeAgue O'Reoan, his servant ;
volume firft-r-By H. H. BrAckenridge.
Ouicquid agunt homines, nojlri* farrago Libel Li.—
Juvenal. In conformity to the ast of
:he Congress of the United States, entitled,
c An a<ft for the encouragement of learn
ng, by securing the copies of maps, charts,
and books, to the authors and proprietors
rffu'ch copies, during the times therein
mentioned.
Samuel Caldwell, Clerk of tks
DiJlriß of Pennsylvania.
This Day are publifhcd,
SERMONS,
Hiflorical and Charatteriftical :
By WILLIAM LINN, D. D.
Sold by T. DOBSON, R. CAMPBELL, &
M. CAREY.
[ Price Three Quarters of a Dollar.]
PRINTED BY
CHILDS AND SWAIN E,
THIIR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIGH-S TRE IT»
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA"