[Numb. 4of Vol. ll.]
Resolutions of the Legislature of the Bntijh
Jfland of Antigua, relative to the prohi
lition of the African Slave Trade :■ a
greed to on the 16th of September, 1792 i
Weiinse t them at large, as speaking
the general language of the Bntijh Ijland<
on this important fubjeti.
RESOLVED, That on the firft efta
blifhment of the sugar colonies, the
African Have trade was found to be efien
tially necefiary to the fettling and culti
vating them, and was accordingly fane
tioned by ast of Parliament ; and that 1!
liath been lince repeatedly confirmed b)
fubkquent ftstutes.and may be conliderec
as a part of the original charter or com
pad, between the mother country and ths
colonies.
Resolved, That it is the indifputabl
right of every Britirti fubjefl, to obtair
at all times the highest polfible price so:
any article of commerce or manufacture
not being a necessary of life, and that n<
attempt hath heretofore bet.-, .. .- n u
be made to restrain the price, or to pre
vent the fubjeft from felling at the horn,
market to any purchaser, whether so
home nfe or exportation, at such p ice a:
he could obtain ; except in the cafe o
wool, which being the staple commodit)
of England, is prohibited to be exportec
in its raw ft ite, and in that of grain, wher
there is so little in the market as to en
danger the lives of the people by furthei
exportation.
Resolved, That the measure at present
pursued by Great-Britain, with a view t.
the enacting of laws to suppress the fiave
trade, on the faith of which so many thou
iands of his majefly's fubjea_s have ven
tured their lives and fortunes in these dif
tant and iuhofpitable climates, and tc
take from us at a fixed price our fngar in
their markets, while they allow us nc
other European markets to resort to, i;
tinconftitutional and highly opprefTive.
and tends to a direct violation of tlu
original compact, and to alienate the as
sections of tile colonies from the parent
Resolved, That we have the fulleft con
fidence in thewifdom and justice of thole
branches of the legislature of Great-Bri
tain which have not yet declared them
selves on the fubjeft, that they, rtcolleft
ing the sacred principles on which the
glorious revolution in 1688 was eltablifti
cd, by which the illustrious house ol
Brunfwick was called to the throne, wil
jefift all a'tempts that may be made tc
take advantage of the weakness of the
colonies as to any pofiible erffeeftuul reiift
ance, ;<nd will (hew that justice and equit)
towards us, which we are unable to en
force, by rejtfting any bill or bills, whicl
in the moments'of popular delusion anc
puritanical phrenzy may be brought for
ward, fubverfire of the constitution an
known legal rights of the colonies-
Resolved, That if the above measure!
fliould, contrary to our hopes and expec
tations, be patted into laws, we shall have
to lament, that the system of colonial go
vernment which not many years ago di
vided the Bntith empire, after an enor
mous expenditure of blood and treafuie,
is to be renewed with regard to us, who,
from our divided and insular fitu**tions,
have nothing left, but to fuffer with pa
tience whatever the ttrong hand of relent
less power may inflict upon us ; and that
while we ptetend to boast of the title of
Englilhmen, we have nothing remaining
of the glorious diftinftion which former
ly attended that name.
Resolved, That it is expedient that an
address be presented to his majesty, and
to the lords spiritual and temporal in par
liament assembled, humbly dating in what
manner the interests of the sugar colonies
have been lately prejudiced, praying re
tJrefs from such grievances, and particu
larly deprecating the palling of any law
for the abolition of the Have trade.
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum ,
SATURDAY, November 10, 1792.
Sketch of the Proceedings at Paris, on tht
memorable \cth of Augufl, X/9 2 *
THE decree of the Bth, which acquit
ted La Fayette, had excited public indig
nation ; and the general discontent was
carried to its height on the morrow, by
the tardiness of the national assembly in
examining the question tor deposing the
king, at a time when there was not a mo
ment to lose, and in negle&ing to fit dur
ing the night. Ihe fermentation increaf
;d every inliant in the most alarming man
ner. Petion had declare 1 to the assem
bly, that he could answer for the tranqui
lity of the city only till midnight* Be-
Wes it was publicly known, that a plan
u .ad been formed to found the alarm at that
lour, and to repair to the royal palace,
• hich, by an inlidious proclamation, and
additional hostile precautions, had been
nore than ever fufpefted : for the proces
'crbal, inltituted to enquire into the king's
•onduft, had not added to public confi
tence. The municipality had published
his enquiry, but refufed to answer tor
:onfequences. It was kfiown that the
:oi:rt had thrown open its doors, at the
i equTition of the magillrates, meerly to
:oncejl its flight; and thts flight the peo
j'e on Friday were determined to prevent.
The palace was found full of trunks and
reparations for travelling.
The alarm bell was rung, and the
Irums ben at midnight in various fec
ions, and principally in the Fauxbourgi
saint Antoine and Saint-Merceau. The
nen of Bretagny and Marseilles fit ft made
heir appearance, but were not long with
jut companions. Many of the citizens
■an to arms, and to the guard houses,
vh le others repaired to the common hall,
yliere the council-general was assembled.
pet ion was absent. Fhe intidious Louis
lad sent for him to the palace, to provide,
is lie said, for the public fafety. But the
nayor did not return, and his absence
:aufed uneasiness which the municipal of
jeers found it difficult to calm. Many left
:his place and went to the national assem
bly, where various members, awakened
:>y the alarm bell, already were fitting,
ind meffenger3 were dispatched to the re
nainder. "Petion not having yet left the
palace, and a fufficient number of mem
bers being present, a decree was obtained
:o oblige the palace to release its prey.
The mayor at length appeared, and was
;ondufted to the common hall. The
ireets were yet calm and almost defertedj
:xcept by feve.al strong patioles of pike
men and mufketeera. A falfe patrole ol
more than thirty men, commanded by one
Carle* was difcovcred and furroiinaed.
Eight of the soldiers and their chief were
put to the fvvord, and their heads the next
momino" were borne about on the ends oi
pikes. Their bodies lav, during the mor
row, in the Place Vendome, where they
hadfillen.
Another falfe patrole, 2 or 300 strong,
with a cannon, kept in the neighborhood
of the French theatre all night ; this was
to hare joined a detachment of the batta
lion of Henry IV. on the Pont neut, and
to have marched and slaughtered Petion,
and the men of Marseilles, encamped on
the Pont St. Michael. The afling Sec
tions decreed that the Mayor ot Pans
(hould remain in the Council-hall, with a
guard of 400 citizens, who should be
rcfponfible for the life and liberty of this
worthy magistrate.
While these firm and prudent mealures
were taking, armed citizens of every ciaf;
assembled in small detachments, and ar
ranged themselves; for their commanders
were not present. The iufurreftion be
came universal ; battalions were formed,
pi eceded by their cannon. The battalion
of Henry IV. appeared defiroas to quit
the common cause, and went so far as to
point a part of their artillery on the Rue
Dauphine, and the quarters of the men
of Marseilles ; and so great were the in
t ere lis that occupied thv people, that they
were scarcely noticed. The Place du Ca
ronfel already was filled, where the men of
Mat fellies firft arrived, marching through
the R.ue Saint Honore.
The court did not think proper to wait
till the citizens were all assembled. Louii
XVI, whom we no longer can call the
1 King of the French, was not gone to bed.
The evening before many carriages had
been remarked in the palace yard, and the
night had apparently been palled in plan
ning some mode of defence, or rather oi
retreat Petion had been detained from
his poll as long as pofliblej so much Wa:
hi", influence over the citizens dreaded.
The grenadiers and chafleurs had beer
commanded to guard the palace. At fix
in the morning Louis XVI. descended in
to the court of the princes to harrangue
the grenadiers, who bore him triumphant
ly back to his apartment, crying, vive It
roi, but deserted their poll two hours as
terwards on the arrival of the people oi
the Fauxbourgs. The gunners paflee
over with their cannon to the fide of the
patriots.
Mean while a certain number of new
crown pieces and a quantity of excellenl
wine were diltr buted among the Swiss
among whom there was a little fear o:
aefertion. The guard was tripled ; the
king reviewed it in person, and was f-ttif
fied. But the 20th of June was not yel
forgotten, and the court determined noi
to wait the arrival of the people. Ihe
king and his Medicis, their children, witl
the prude Elizabeth, and Lamballe, cross
ed the gardens of the Thuilleries, wh'cl
were trien shut, in their way to the nati
ona! escorted by the nationa
guard and aii the Swiss all crying vive It
roi. Wiien they had fafely conveyed theii
mailer tnd miftrefsto the senate* the Swiss
returned to their polls ; but many of the
national volunteer;;, the grenadier except
;d, did not long continue at theirs, being
affended at a trifling incident whicl
aught not to be pafled over in silence
t is too important, and proves* beyonc
iifpute, that the court, on its part, hac
i grand design, and was determined "tc
let all on the hazard of the die." Pie
nous to the arrival of the men of Mar
Teilles, and the Fauxbourgs at ihe Caroti
"el, a large body of citizens had peaceabl)
knocked at the gate of the Court of th<
iiinces, which had been barred up the
evening preceding. The Swiss demandee
>vhat they wanted — " To enter"—" Yoi
null not enter (replied the Swiss) unti
j-ou will promise to cry vivek roi, ant
.hen we will give you iabres." Phis at
rocious fad {peaks for itfelf.
Meanwhile the alarm bell, which kepi
•inging, the heads of ihe men decapita
:ed, borne through the llreets, all Paris ir
irms, and the presence of the covvardl)
and perfidious king, who came to throw
limfelf on the mercy of the national as
fembly, together with the firm carriage
jf the tribunes, inspired so much awe
among the members, that they haflil}
passed u decree, moved by M. Vergniaud,
Tor the suspension of the monarch. It
was rumoured on the terrace of the Feuil
[ans, at that time full of people, that the
king had been deposed : but this was
falfe, he was only l'ufpended. He might
be said tobeprefen? at the deliberation ol
this decree, which was foci over, being
placed with his family in box of the
news writers, not beinsj permitted to re
main at the bar, and ilill leis by the fide
of the President. But the people were
too merciful to ask any thing more, thai
that he should be dethroned. The firing
of cannon was heard at this moment
There was likewise an universal clapping
of hands, which, said they, is the rejoic
ing of the public at the decree which hai
been palfed.
The*y were soon undeceived by the fighl
of a man wounded, r.nd the cry of " '1 c
arms! To arms ! W care betrayed ! The
Swiss fire upon the citizens ! They have
[Total No. 108.]
alrtady mowed down a hundred of the
men of Marseilles !"
It was but too true. About half pad
ten, all Paris m'ght be said to be aflem
bled in the Carouftl and the adjacent pla
ces, the men of Marseilles in front, whoi
demanded that the doors of the Cour de 3
Princer. (hould be opened. This was im
mediately done ; they entered, .and ad
vanced eight in rank : the Swiss welcom
ed them, ranged them length ways in feye*
ral files, and evert cartridges were g:Ven
them in token of friendfhip. They con
tinued to advance, followed by the batta«
lion of cordeliers. When they were with
in ten paces of the palace, a rolling fire
to the right and left, and even across the
palace yard, wan made upon them, fol
lowed by a discharge of cannon, masked
and loaded witli chain (hot. Near two
hundred men fell en this perfidious and
unexpe&ed attack. Their comrades re
tired in gcod order without disbanding,
being fnftained by the Bretons i the fird
did not cease, to which they alone were
exposed for more than an hour j the Pa
risian battalions not being provided with
more than three rounds of powder and
ball. The Swiss kept up as inceffanC
aring from their barracks, where they
:oncealed themselves after the grand dif
:harge, that they might load their guns
!rt fafety, being but little incommoded by
the volunteers. At the fame time they
Ired on the people from every window of
:hepavilion de flore, and from the grand
gallery on the quai. Many citizens, efpe
iially women and thi'dren, could only
ivoid the balls by dropping from the pa
apets into the river. At the fame time
hey fired on the garden fjJe, the city fide
>f the palace, and from the roofs and rent
loles, It appeared a3 if the was
to reatt the massacre of St. Blrtho
omew i though in reality the Joth of
A.uguft 1792, was more dreadful thai
:he 25th of August 1572 ; and Louis
XVI. was a very different monster from
Charles IX. for Charles, with a
jufs, standing on a balconeyof the Loii
?re, while he ftiot his fubje&s, exposed
limfelf to repi ifals ; but Louis, having
|iven money and liquor to the SwiG, re
/iewed them* and ordered them and hi»
inightsof the dagger, bravely to afidfiii
nate the people from the windows of his
lalaces, and then, not less cowardly than
perfidious, frent to seek fafety under the
arotedtion of the national alfembly, and
ntreated an asylum among the repufent
itives of the nation he had consigned to
[laughter. A crime like his is unknown
to the hiltory of ages. At length, the
men ol Marseilles and the Bretons, were
not alone exposed to the concealed artil
tery of the Swiss.—The Cavalry of the:
national gendarmes, participating the glo
ry of the day, which had otherwise been
much more bloody for the patriots, has
tened, without hefitationj to attack the
barracks, and set them on fire; Forty
Itorfe and five and twenty men were left
dead. A trumpeter of 12 years old had
his horse killed under him, and with the
utmost coolness cut the strap's, took off hi*
portmanteau, and went and placed hin'i
felf in the ranks of the infantry. We are
lorry that we do not know the name of
this heroic boy- The 'pikemen perfectly
seconded the gendarmes, braved the artil
lery* and were highly ui'eful, mingled with
the mufketteers.
The Swjfs were driven froin their bar
racks by the fire, end fled toward the pa
lace. The troops of Marseilles, Brefl, and
Paris fired on them as they appeared —
Could it be believed ? Atn'on-j them were
found many of the rational guards, : .n
their uniform ! Bat the traitors did not
escape their jaft rewr.rd, The confulion
at firft occasioned some unfortunate mis
takes. The Swiss had cannon ; l*ut ours,
perfe&ly well served by the men of Mar
seilles, swept away the enemy. The car
£\£V remainder-, ft: lajlpage }Answer to the puces in the Gazette of the
Lnited States (Jignecl Ab American)
containing certain charges agai/ijt
the Secretary of State.
[Continued from our paper of Oft. 13.]
A DISREGARD for the public credit,
or to use terms more correspondent
with the idea of the writer, a desire to ex
tirpate it, is the remaining article, in the
Jift of charges which have been brought
Jorward by The American against Mr. Jeffer
fon. In the notice I firft took of these al
legations, this had escaped me. It {hall,
however, now receive the attention to
which it is entitled.
To support this charge, a paragraph sta
ted to be an extract from one of his letters
to tiie former Congress, containing some
communication relative to a propofeel
transfer of the French debt, to a company
of Dutch merchants, has been submitted to
the public view. Upon this (ingle docu
ment it has been relied, and upon this of
course must the demonllration depend.
The extract in queltion has been re
prefenied to be as follows : "If there is a
danger of the public payments not being
punctual, I lubmit whether it may not be
beler that the discontents whicti would
then arise. Ihould be transferred from a
court of whole good offices we have so
much need, to the breasts of a private
company." By this Mr. Jetferfon is exhi
bited, it not as the author of this propor
tion, yet as submitting it singly* to their
consideration, and prelling its adoption by
Congress. And from the manner of the
publication, and his comments on it, the
honor and credit of the writer become
pledged, ndt only for its truth and accu
racy, but likewise for its impartiality, jn
presenting before the public, a still and
candid llatement of whatever was neces
sary to enable them to form ajuft eftiinate
of its merit.
To exculpate him from this difnonorable
imputation, even the extract furnilhed,
falfe and deceptive as it is, upon a found
uonftruchon, would have been fufficient.
1 ue sole question it involves is, whether
the Congress would consent that the French
court, lhoulcl allign the debt we owed
them, to a company of private merchants;
whether they would agree, bd pay the lat
ter at the fame time, and under the fame
conditions, precisely the famefum we ow
ed the former. If Mr. Jefferfon had ad
vocated this idea, wherein does the turpi
tude consist? Debts between individuals
have this property, and alignments of them
are daily supported in the court's of law
and equity. Fhofe from the public to in
dividuals likewise have it : indeed the
greater part, perhaps by this time the
whole, of the American debt has under
gone this process. Upon what principle
then refufe it to that due to France ? Does
morality diftinguilh between the cases ? Or
were the claims of that magnanimous na
tion, for past advartces t and at a period of
great diftrefsj less to be regarded ? or
those, who were id profit by the transac
tion, less the favorites of our government
than others who have iince infelted its feat
and preyed upon iildividuals ?
But the vindication of Mr. JciFcrlbn a -
gainst this charge does not relt oil the a
bove principle. The contents of his let
ter, even in the extract publiliied, have
been fhamefully mifreprcfented ; other
parts, absolutely neceifary for the full
comprphenfion of it, fuppreired ; and the
proportion which he discountenanced, im
posed on him as his own. I have lately
i'een an extract, in polfeffion of a gentle
man, who was at that time a member of
the Congress, and whose authenticity can
not be queflioned, which verifies what I
have here advanced. The only propor
tion which he made to Congress, was to
borrow the money in Holland, and dis
charge the French debt. This alone was
Ins wiftl. With refpeci to the project of
the transfer he was only the vehicle of com
munication, and at the particular request
of the agent of the company; hazarding
transiently only, in presenting it to the view
of that body, an idea which occurred, and
which must have occurred to any other
person, that it might be better to have for
creditors, those from whom no friendly of
fices had been received, than a powerful
nation who had already conferred, and
from whom we might hereafter have oc
caiion to solicit, the molt important servi
ces.
Air. je'lerfort never fought to injure
x ranee ; that court and the whole nation
would exculpate him from the charge.
And the imputation of intending any de
ception on the mercantile company, is e
qually falfe and groundless. By them the
cotltraft Was solicited of France ; and for
the deoofit of twenty millions of livres,
they were to have become entitled to
twenty-four, making thereby a clear gain
of four njillipm, with the high rate of in
terelt stipulated by the loan. Our assent
* This writer in answer to a very fenf
ble and well written piece under the fir
nature of Aristides has confefled t
the firft statement made by him with so
much confidence, was inaccurate ; but e
ve 1 here hr: still states it in a point of view
waxch Juftifies the remark I have made.
was only desired for its copfummation. Is
it to be preiuir.ed that this company were
ignorant of the actual state of the debt or
of our ability to pay it ? and was it in Inch
event his duty to interfere, ia derogation
of the character of his country, to "warn
them of the danger of our probable fail
ure ?
The person who published the mutila
ted extract, poffelles, I presume, the true
one. The whole was depolited in the quar
ter from whence it is" believed to have
been taken. I now therefore call upon
him to produce the entire paragraph in hi:
defence. In contempt of official duties, a>
heretofore Puggelted and not denied, the
A» e -. ,ecrec y has keen torn from it.
Whatever detriment, if any, could be sus
tained si om the expolure of a confidential
paper, has been already rendered. It on
ly remains by the publication of the truth,
to fix the stigma on him who deserves it.
Let this likewile proceed from the fame
party notably diltinguifhed, in grati
fication of private reveilge, for the perni
cious example or" a gross violation of the
duties of a public trust, and a glaring out
rage on the delicacy of a foreign corrpf
pondence.
The vifioriary danger which threatefc;
in the minds of ibme men, the public cre
dit, has iong been a theme for copious de
clamation. An enquiry into ariv pronofi
>-ion, sanctioned by a certain party, howe
ver unconnected with it, has been repre
teilted as Peeking its deftruftion ; and those
1 °,i Co " < J uft ?» tho ' "therwife pre-emi
nently difhnguiflied for their talents, theii
patrtotifin, their public and private vir
tues as having this object solely in view.
Much labour and ingenuity have also beer
bellowed in an effort to impress the pub
ic ci editors with a belief that on the ii.e
cefs of this enterprising faction, in all it:
ntaiui es, their fafety depends. Can theie
l ou s bewilder the public mind, and di -
vert ;t from the true object of enquiry ?
f Lan , an y person who difpaffionatelv con
templates the obvious tendency ofmea
iUies, with the known and avowed urin
!! Ce Wh ° ef P o " re them, doubt
n"f, whlch the y are intended
o be made subservient, far surpasses the
loueft ooundary of a strict fulfillment of
the public faith !
Refleßions on French affair?: from a Peri:
paper, j
r. It is evident that France would hav;
been this moment in a state of perfect peace
had it not been for the intrigues of the roya
family and the aristocratic faction. And.
ther cause of our unfettlert state is the num.
berlefs contradictory claules in the nationa
constitution, and the fatal error of leavim
the executive power in the hands of a fa
mily and of a court, sworn enemies of the
nation, and of liberty. The influence o]
so ancient a race as the Bourbons cotdc
not be otherwise than confutable. Ii
our firft eHorts the hereditary quality o:
the crown ought to have been done away
n least we should have looked for refpdn
nihility in him that wore it, and Should noi
have entrusted the direction of a war a
ptnftthe Ho life of Austria to a nian v.host
uitereft lay m feeing that House victorious
v' have no longer any eftablifhec
religious worlhjp ; why then are we ftil
tioub ed wit.i high-church bells and priefti
exclusively fidaried ? Let all church bell:
in fciit to tne national foundaries—bells
which only serve to diflurb and harrafsoui
repose ; and let the statues of those de
ceased tyrants, that still teem to tbreater
us with despotism.be Tent after them. Lei
us deltroy every such vellige of (layer,
and idolatry, which now only serve to re
ni.nd lis of the days of ignorance and ft.
perfhtton. In their stead, let us set up tht
images ot Roiifleau, Franklin, and othei
worthies, of the present, as well as part a
ges, who roused mankind to a fenfeof theii
liberty and rights. Instead of those load:
of tram and lmpofture that have
palmeu upon us for sense and reason, lei
us attend to the immortal writings of fuel
men, and become truly wife. But, of the
Kiolatrous bronze of bells and statues lei
lis cast cannon of a monstrous calibre t<
vomit death and perdition upon the ene
mies of the people.
The prevailing patriotic clubsin Eng
land have already rendered a molt impo?-
W VI Th° th<? r f. v ' Ving ]ibertiei
x lance. The neutrality declared by the
kmg of England, in regard to France, mult
not oe in.puted to the abilities of our am
aliadors ; ih 1 lets to the benevolence or
liberahty of the British court :we are. in
t.ebted for tills neutrality to the flrmucfvof
he Lnglifh popular-societies, who h:'ve
■ orced the government to listen to reason.
ku, „ W r S lm P o(iible f °r the national
mbl> to form the people into any thin
like complete union whilst the king, and
ais paity, were fomentinxr divi
lions. Had the king openly and publicly
contravened the constitution, the aflemblv
would have known how to oppose him ■
but as long as he affected to adhere to it in
every point and yet was secretly under
"'-'"o.'t, tney were at a lei's how to ast
otherwise than by taking the will of the
people lor their guide, h all theft Uhs
' I-X was anew hauweJlat'the Lo/lum. J-ie ha'
*<- length thrown off the masque, but too
suddenly. Led altray by inordinate am-
bition, he wished to become dire&'or-geiie'
ral to the assembly. His audacity has -ru
ined.him. At tho time Cromwell begur
to give leflons, and to speak in a domineer
ing stile to the Englilh parliament, he was
surrounded with an army who were whol
ly devoted to his service, and had gained
him many victories. Such wreathes had
not yet encircled the brows of M. de i;i
layette ; nor could he reasonably prefumc
that his soldiers would ever turn their arm;
against the conquerors of the Baflille !
5- Some well meaning people lie under
a great mistake when they l'uppofe that 0111
internal revolution Ihotild nGceflarUy maj ;
a change in-our external connection. .. n
is true, that if we were a poor, pitiful, or
contemptible nation, there would' be fomt
reason for our a flung Jjermiflion of oiu
neighbours to become free. Geneva dare;
not meddle with her own conflitution
without leave from the powers that sur
round her. has France to do, il
united, with the opinions of tiu* reft of
hurope: When ence the part:; of this great
mass have formed themselves into such a
coherence, as to be directed to one great
object, farewell to all appreheniions fron
the combined powers.
6. Spain is not"by any means entitled tc
be ranked among the great powers of F.u
tope. Ihe weakness of her government
and marine, and her contemptible lane
force, render tifeleCs the immense resour
ces of riches and strength rriat nature ha;
given her. Her exceflive apprehenjion:
from Our revolution seem to have made 'iei
a itranger to all that has paired, at least til
(he got a little glimpse of what We wen
about, through the adminiflratioii of th<
countd'Aranda. Thisminifterfeemsto havi
comprehended the true interelh of Spain
them. Although by m
means a friend to our revolution, he is ne
verthelefs a friend to France, and, as such
W 'i './. no doubt, preserve Spain our allv
and ir poflible, rake such advantage of the
e ) l ent ' fs t0 make it turn to the bell inter
elts or his country.
7- The _ fyflem preached up In Mr.
Pame, while in France, was plain down
right i epublicanifm. Finding his doctrine:
unpopular he retired to England, and il
was "not til! the latter end of June 179 a.
that his politics, aided by the kindred Ja
cobin tenets, began to take etfeft. A po
pular fyflem of government, it was though:
would raise the nation above itfelf, ani
change the deepest rooted prejudices inti
republican Virtues ; altho' others alferted
and perhaps with some juflice, that the re
demption of France arid the renovated li
berty of mankind in that quarter, woulc
work the total eonfttfion of Europe. The
prevailing party, however were thorouehh
persuaded that the days of universal liber-
C L w ®r. e at hand, when every nation would
"i- e V n S lant * rom his fieep, to lhake
oft their (hackles— -when there would be
110 more Occasion for armies, navies, kings,
nob.es, priests, nor oyer-grown rich men,
throughout this continent. Every Boot
man mull wish the approach of this peri
od, but the present age can only behold it
in remote perfpeftive.
8. Defpotijm was never so much puz
zled at any former period, to know how tc
ast, than at the beginning of our revolu
. . , boJdnels and novelty of 0111
principles imitated them aim oft to mad
ness ; and it was chiefly owing to the oa
cihc character of Leopold that the violent
tho secret resolutions of the electors, anc
ome other princes, did not immediately
uirlt out into desperate action. A. ques
tion might here arise, Could France polli
bly have, vindicated herfelf into libern
without War ? or could any fyflem but
war have gone further than merelv to re
form, and not totally change the old so
vernment r The Jacobin revolutiOnijf:
K'Ught not : and it was theiropinion thai
despotism could die no other than a san
guinary death. Hence the war, that was
declared by the influence of that pre* ail
ing party, who for a conliderabie time
were monarchies in principle, and retain
ers to royalty, but at length became re
publicans when they found that rovaln
had parted with every sentiment of honor
and nothing _iefs was plotting than to ri-.et
die chains Oi despotism on the nation, with
ten times more strength than before.
foreign intelligence"
PARIS, Aug. 28.—Sep. 2.
No duty isfodangerous aad difficult to the
municipal officers, as the guardof the royal
family, efpec.ally the filter of Louis ,uh.
) bis little prude is a diinon of the most in
u edible mobility—She runs up and down an
hundred times a day, between her own a
panment and that of her sister in law.
nly the most exact and minute watchful
nefs can - prevent the many little plot,, oi
[lire of m,ly ' even in present
' sos negation, are capable. There is
.no fort of artifice or contrivance, to which
Elizabeth and Maria do not descend. to cor
' , ce ' ve t , he "- guards. These should
be often changed. , The little fiftbr especi
ally ogle, with infinite art; the man mod
hacknjtd in the little policies of woman
may be taken on the second day. Her
black lynx eyes, which are also by no means
inc,.ftererH, ledd thoughts and Df-v- 'r .r e
into the foul of a..'/ man.
As to Maria Antoinette, the queen,
conducts herfelf in a manner more suitable
to hei- age and the loss ot' her charms.
Her mode is to interefl the beholder by the
appearance of a woman resigned to misfor
tune. When her women were taken aivay,
others chosen by the municipality were of
fered her. She replied, affecting the hero
ine, " I lhall perform my houlliold duties
myfell—Only let me have a tapestry-man,
to ihew me how to set out my bed."
Her husband in a moment ill humor,
occasioned by the preparations for making
afofle round the tower, forgot himfelffo
far a to bellow some very angry epithets
upon his Antoinette, who fainted away
upon a couch. In short, ihe a£ted in such
a way as might have won any perlon who
did not know, that a very few days before,
this woman of delicacy advised gun-pow
der to be put into the brandy given to the
Swiss, that they might exert themselveS
the better against the people and the na
tional guard.
On the day .ifter the domefbics were re
moved, M. Manual announced, that they
were in a state of arrest. Some tears
were filed. Dinner, however, was imme
diately atterw ards autioiiiiced, and then
ail was well again- The t\v o filters af
ter wards proceeded in the arrangement
of the apparel and linen, and ordered the
beds to be removed, which were become
useless by the abf'ence of their domeltics.
The uphollterer employed in this business,
was inceflantly watched by the officer of
the guards. Antoinette, with an air of
much tenderness, ail ed, if it was not pof
lible to procure her filler a bed somewhat
more commodious than her own. This
demand was obeyed.
It is curious to know what fort of a
partment Elizabeth now Occupies. It is
an old kitchen upon the third floor; her
toilette is placed upon a wafting stone, on
the 'ide of the stove ; her bed was made
of girthes, with two fnrall matrafles; ancl
all ihe furniture cOnfilts of an old buffet,
filled with coarse earthen ware.
The new tenant complained not a little
of this to the municipal officer, who was
at that time busied in preparing the apart
ments of -her filler. Antoinette allied for
white curtains, which could not be given
her immediately ; when they were pro
cured, ihe loaded the Officer with thanks,
and praised his humanity to the utmost.
He was aware of w hat was intended by
this, and made his feport of it.
1 hefe circiimftances are not to be im
puted to any negligence or severity of the
municipality, 'i hey were Owing only to
the haste, wit-h which this family was re
moved from the f euillans, where their
court encreafed daily, and extended its
contagion even to feme members of the
legislative body.
Now and then Louis, dittates to his
daughter some paflages in tragedies; but
the child is chiefly attached to its mother
and aunt. The municipal officers upon
duty at the temple, are directed : to keep
the mod afliduous watch upon all the
words and actions of, he lioftaged-fainily ;
they are to watch that no fignor note pas-
Tes between them and their guards ; and
to examine every thing which is brought,
provisions, small furniture and tovs. °At
each meal, they taffe, in the presence of
the family, all the provisions, left any at
tempt fl.ould be made to poison them, with
the view of charging it upon the mu
nicipality. The king always wears his
word.
A person who had not been an eye wit
nels, could not have conceived it possible
t, there could have been found men so
prodigal of life, as rhore who firft entered
ihe garden ot the Thuiileries on the me
morable tenth of August. After breaking
the gates with their cannon, exposed to
. ollmg hre from the windows, without a
|iy protection on their parts, they advan
• ed, entered the palace, stormed -the stair
" and forced the Swift guards to give
a ll a /' , c " ea,li ~ ul laughter—about
100 firft tied, but w ere met at the Place
Uuis 15, and there fell under the pikes and
bayonets of the citizens. If amidst scenes
o dreadful, one could have ventured to
mile, it would have been to fee dirty fel
lows covered with dust and biood repo
sing them.elves on ii!k fofas and embroi
led beds, and to hear the pleasantries
which their new and unexpected situation
drew fr om them while some were car
others of 7 lable , eftetts to the assembly,
ther., of the popuiace were guarding the
ell an £l whoever was detected in pilfer
ing the nat.onal property, was treated w fth
aslittle ceremony as the Swiss soldiers.
['ro ie ;U n t e w °i d . eath had ceased ' u w ; ' s
11 Ipr* V- V: 111 tlle g arden of the Thu
i I w'id V was now filled with women
Inu children, Purveying with anxiety the
vifiims, dying and dead, some looking for
a huffiand brother, or' father,
their heads to recognize them, alt<=nate''y
ejoiung for. or lamenting their fate One
woman was vuy assiduous in finding her
lora - cnc cor p se
chat tho' ;'r dlfa PP<>i n ted, she observed,
. ? r, rt was ijot what she foupht, yet it
as the bedv of a good citizen. The trreat
difference oetwe-n ,1= j • • s ,
P r' ,-£° fe of the l^tcr
Th'S probahlv^ 4 r (h f ma y and despair.
in., pi obably arefs from the differentmoJ.es of death. Tire citizens fell by bul
lets, and the Swiss by pikes, sabres, and
other weapons, which indicted more pain
ful and dreadful wounds.
It is remarkable that after all the pre
parations made by the court ; after cor
rupting the Swi'.s guards, and filling the
' palace with thofc caval ers, whole f\>ords
j (according to Mr. Burke) were to leaf
from their fcabba'ds, to avenge a look of in
( fult towards a queen of France, that they
' Jhouid be so loft to alVflfe of honor, so ut
, terly forgetful of their obligations and their
duty as to fuher a rabbit, a swinish multi
tude, to drive them tikefheep before them.
Unhappily, the poor foidiers ivere left the
victims of the rage of tile people These
noble cavaliers, w hen they found the mul
titude fomtwhat in earneil, after exhort
■ing the Swiss to hold out to the lalt, stole
away through different parts of the palace,
particularly through the long gallery of the
Louvre,, v hich no person guaided, and fa-
I ved theitifelves by fiight°long before the
palace was taken.
A "young woman of the name of La
come was, among the ranks of the patriots
whoboldly ftonngd the palace of the Thu
illeries, amidst the havoc made by the fire
of the Swiss guards.
In one place she laved 70 Swiss foidiers
from immediate 'laughter, and collecting a
chosen baud of Federifts, ihe put herfelf at
their head, and placing these men in the
centre, protected them through crouds ol
people who cried out for their blood, -which
tney said ought to be 1' ed, to revenge the
death of the brave patriots Whom these
Swiss had flam.
But this truly fiallant Amazon declared,
thattliofe who jhouid attack these disarm
ed pi ifoners must lirlt take her life ; nor
did (lie quit them till she • had conveyed
them to prison, and thus secured them from
every other vengeance, save that of the
law. »
The Federifts* of the S3 departments,
who had witnessed both her bravery in the
attack, and her humanity after vi£tory.
bellowed upon her a civic eroivn, as the
reward ot her virtues. She appeared, on
Saturday lalt at the bar of the national ai
fembly. and presented this crown to the
President, as homage paid to the patriot
ism of the iegiflature.
She was invited to lit within the bar ;
and honorable mention of her and her of
fering was made in the journals.
CONGRESS. •
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, NOV. 7.
Mr. ft-ele moved that the report of the
fcommittee, at the close of the last ifeflion,
011 the causes of the failure' of the late
expedition under Gen. St. Clair, be taken
up. The report was accordingly referred
to a committee of the whole, and made
the order of the day for next Wednes
day.
A fbatemeut of public accounts was
communicated- by the Treaftirer of the
L nited States, which was ordered to be
printed.
Mefirs. Goodhue, FitzfimOris, and Par
ker were appointed a committee to bring
in a b.il for regil+ering vefiels, and regu
lating thole employed in the coaftins'trade
and hlheries.
A memorial wasread frorrt Jefephßarns,
attorney in fact for L). 'Rumfey, praying
for a more effectual patent fyltem than that
now eftablilhed, and securing to authors
and inventors the exclusive right to' their
works and inventions.
. flf? °f the day. The House resolved
ltfelt into a committee of the whole, to
ta.:e into con.lderation the Prelident's
opeech to both Houses.
On motion, Resolved that an addrefsbe
prepared in answer to the Present's
opeech. to alliire himt.'-.at the House would
taKeinto consideration the matters fubmit
-1 . t .°.them. Mefirs. Madison, Benfon,
and Murray were appointed a committee
to draw up the Stldrefs.
A mefi'age was received from the Prefi
< ent or the United States, containing 1 ft.
A communication from the Secretary of
>-tate enclosing an account of the applica
tion ot the fund appropriated to tpreign
purposes, 2. A letter from the justices of
the iupreme court, inclofmg a memorial to
Cong: cf:, respecting the inconveniencies to
which they are subjected by the operation
Cl judiciary law of tiie Unit.e;!. States,
3- A letter from the judges of the diltrict
court ot North-Carolina, ft a ting objections
to tjic act palled the last session, providing
-or the settlement of claims of orphans and
widows barred by the limitations before
established ; and also to regulate the claims
0/ mvaiid pensioners. The remaining ar
'u- Was ™ a confidential nature, upon
.iich the galleries were shut.
Thursday, Nov. 81
A report was brought in-011 the petition
frcm the merchants of Charleflon, stating
r ' J be v. 111 i ounded, and propoling t\\ o
1 efol'jtions, 1. that a bill be brought in to
regulate fees in the admiralty courts of the
nited States j and 2. that the obnoxious
clause in the ast for the regulation o:'fea
men, be repealed, and another fuMHt'uted
The report was ordered to lie on the ta-
ble ; as were also several petitions for
compensations, &c.
A letter was read from the Secretary of
war, announcing that Gen. Putnam had
on the 27th of September, couch:Jed i.
treaty of peace with several tribes of In
dians, on the Wabaih and Il!ino:« fivers ;
and also, that he had forwarded a mefl'age
to the. other hostile tribes, to persuade then:
to peace. With this letter was communi
cated the meilage of Gen. Putnam to the
leveral tribes.
The report of the Secretary of the Trea
lury relative to loft certificates wa% on
motion of Mr. Lee, referred to a com
mittee of the whole house on Monday the
igth inft.
1 he petition of Joseph Barnes was re
ferred to a felett cbmmitte?, to report
thereon: on motion of Mr. Smith, S. C.
chat part of the President's speech relative
Co the judiciary was also referred to a fe
lecl committee.
A memorial was read, from W. and J.
mmis, of Philadelphia, praying releaie from
rhe;r bonds for duties payable in New
: orl: on the cargo of a iliip from Cadiz
chat had been compelled to put into that
jort by hard weather, and was after™ ani
cotally loft on the coall of Jerfev, in co
:::ing round to Philadelphia, the port of
k .er destination.
A committee was appointed to report a
>ill to regulate pilots, and provide for the
up. i-iiite-kience of light-houses, b'eafons.
u:oys, c:c.—further communication:, bo
ng of a private nature, the galleries were
.leared.
PHILADELPHIA,
November. 10.
The governor of the state of Maryland
has, by proclamation, notified the follow
ing perions as duly elected representative":
of that if ate in the third Congress of the
United States, viz. George xJeiit, Johr
F. Mercer, Uriah Forreft, Thomas Sprig.
Samuel Smith, Gabriel Ch-riftie, Williarr
Hindman, and William Vans Murray.
Esquires.
The Jegiflature of New-Jersey have ap
pointed Frederick Fretihghuyfm, Esq. a sena
tor in tne Congress of the United States
from the 4th ot March next: And the fol
lowing gentlemen electors of the Prelidenl
and Vice-Prelident of the United States-
Thomas Henderfon, Richard Stockton,
Jolieph Bloomfield, Franklin Davenport.
Aaron D. Woodruff, John V an Cleve, anc
Samuel Dick.
According to a-letter from Louisville.
:n Kentuckey (dated Ocfober 14) tkatrea
cy was opened on the 24th of September
*t Poit \ incennes with seven nations ol
Indians, viz. The Lelrivers, Weachteon.
thankiihaws, Potawathems, Kickapoos,
K iika.lkias,andMufquetoes. The treaty was
concluded on the 27th of the fame month,
i hel'e nations have buried the hatchet,
and are now entirely broke oil' from the
league of the war nations." It is added,
chat the principal chiefs of these nations,
16 in number, are now on their way to
chis city. '
The town of Fayefteville, in North-
Carolina, fuifered a very conliderable loss
jy fire 011 the evening of the 23d of Octo
ber. About 40 tenantable dwelling hou
es and stores were consumed, in spite oi
every exertion, and 28 buildings of other
lefcriptions. Ihe whole loss in buikiing
.s said to amount to 30,0001.---110 ellunate
s yet formed of the loss in goods ami
aouihold furniture, but thought to be con
lderably less than that in buildings.
The troops at and about Pitt/burgh are
shortly to move into winterquarters. The
place fixed on lor this purpole is said to be
□11 the Ohio river; near Log's Town, where
ihe soldiers are to erect huts, to iheltet
chemfeives during the ensuing winter.
ExtraM of a letter from Holland.
'• You have already been informed that
our government has prohibited the impor
tation of tea, coming from your ports,
iuid now has laid an additional duty of one
per cent, on all American imports, and ar
half per cent 011 exports for your conti
nent. This measure has been taken tc
counterbalance the prohibition lately made
on your fide, of Holland gin in cases ;
which article was one of the few we were
able to furnifii you with, in return foi
your cargoes of tobacco, rice, &c. As.
by this innovation, your trade is to fuffei
much more than ours, your rulers m;iy, oj
course, be convinced of the truth of thai
French adage, " Qui trop embralic, ma!
etreint."
Learn this short lei Ton from the Dutch,
That " they lofc ail whogicjt too mmi."
t.xtrad ps a ht>crfrom Mr Cathalan, vice-couft,
uj tlr b'niltd States, at Mat]edits, to the Secre
tary of State, dated Marseilles, 24th Augvfi,
179,2.
" I Omer to your coniidcrai':on a very
interefring matter, explained in full in
.1 men oitc* which I have pit ln.ued to
the municipality of Marseilles, of which
I fenj you here enclofcd a copy*, da
the ii.it. x'l the subject of wheat
and fiour, co which I beg leave to refer
yon. \'/e are in the greatest apprehenlion
of bging in great need of these, 10 hecefi'a
ry commodities-, and of feeing prices gra
dually rile from £si a j 4 per charge oi
18.290 Marfeiltes weight (Hour the fame
price per barrel) which they would now
obtain re; dy money, on the wharf, to/.(;
before next month of December, and £ 7c
before March, on the actual course ot fo
reign exchange and specie, riling again til
next crop in July next.
This memoire was so well received b;
the municipality, that they have determi
to write a letter to General Georgt
\* aHii'igton, President of the United State:
ot America, dated this day, which I hav(
the plea fare of fending you here enclosed
begging you, Sir, to present to hiin, in th«
name ot the town, of Marseilles. I hope
that the American merchants 011 his invi
tarion will contribute a"!) iit their power ti
apply this town abundantly.
i ou may allure them thai brandies wil
eat moderate terms, about/".45 ajf.4'
>er gross of 901b. English, they wil
nake an ;»dvant: geotis remittance. Foi
my part ill the consulate line, as well as 11
.lie commercial one, they may rely 011 al
ny endeavours to render their voyage an<
ulventures as beneficial as potlible.
J obacco on the contrary abounds now
md cannot obtain here £".54 mark weight
10 put-chafers.
I shall depart for Bordeaux in two hour
o fee conlul Fenwick ; when arrived, 1
hall have the honor of addrelling you anc
end.nga copy oi this and the municipalitj
letter. I am, &c.
(Sighed) -
STEPHEN CATHALAN, 3 tin."
* '/hisJhaitappear in'our next.
To the Piefident of the United States oj
America.
MajiiUcs, 24th Attgufl, 1702,
the 4th year oj liberty.
SIR,
FREE nations are always in alliance,
md are alike interefled in atfording mutu
-11 aid and atliftance to each other. A com
-11011 interest has already iinited the inha
bitants of the American States to the inter
ims of regenerated France. Their three
oloured flags are unfurled upon every sea.
proclaiming that the free Americans and
French are brethren. The name of Wa 1,11-
ngton is as much rewred here as at Phi
adelphia. Ir is to Wafliington that we
tddrefs ourselves in order to convey the
entiments of our fellow-citizens to a na
ion for whom he has done and fuffercd sb
nuch.
Commerce is one of the firft ties in the
raternity of mankind, and engaged as we
ire lu the definitive trade of war, which
infortunatelv has become necessary in or
ler to eftablilh the cause of liberty, free
itizens ought nevertheless to leave nopof
ible means untried to extend their com
riercial intercOtlrfe, and ensure the means
)f fubliftence.
The time will arrive, and doubtless it is
iot far ofF, when the genius of liberty, ha
ving eroded the ocean, and hovered over
Vance, \vill kindle over the whole eartl:
hat (acred (ire which now animates oui
jreaits. The demons of discord will ther
ie chained up forever, the sword will be
■endered useless, and the great bond of na
tions will be confidence and brotherly af
fection.
We have, therefore, to propose to 0:11
American brethren to form more extensive
•ominercial connexions with us than here
ofore. Above all, we present to theii
.'iew an object of fpeculatio'n, which, whil<
t lupplies our wants, offers emoluments ti
he adventurer by 110 means contemptible
1 lie article of provisions, for which Wf
lave contracted, carmo't be supplied during
hi present year, on account of the indif
erent crops, which are-disproportionate t<.
:he quantities that MarfeilJes annually lay
jp either for the life of her own citizens
for the southern cli ft riffs of France, or so:
I part of Spam and Italy.
_ Such being our fituati'on, we have peti
tioned the national aflembly to grant a pre
mium of fifty foils per quintal, (marl
weight) of grain that shall be importer
roni -abroad into the southern diih i£ts o
r'rauce : and we iiave reason to believe
hat our patriotic legislators will compl;
ivith our reoneft.
But this is -:ot the 6nly step we v. ill taki
n favor of our American brethren. W<
Aiil petition the executive council that th;
American flag be protected by the Frencl
:ruifing of war ; and we have eve
■yreafon .ro believe that our fbMcitation:
I I this fub'ect wil! not be fruirlef..
Exert your influence then, Sir, to en
v'i'.i °ur .-iinerkan bec-thven ro expert u
the fr.perfliiitv of their crops, i-eplca
i'.d to imorm tiiem that in exchange so;
t'icir produce they will be fupplie-1 in olt
,:ort with oil., and win-?s. j>cU! - .iJur ae
-1 :ck„ and cOniinoditie-- which rr.av li.it
their market. Inform them. Sir, that the
citizens of e.i arieille.-:, will do e% ery thing
in their power to encourage the Air.eriean
trade, and that in this inflaiue in particn
la. they v.'ll aaa..(U - a conjpiiar.ce with
their wifiies as a proof of the fraternal
fiiendfliip that exiUs between the two na
tions.
It is worthy of your character, Sir, to*
chenlh f'uch Sentiments, the diliernination
ot which will constitute the happiness of •
your nation. You have toiled lor the li
berty of your country, and by meriting th£
universal fefteem of" all nations, ypu have
gained that, in particular, of the Mayor,
Municipal officer?, and public Attorney for
the community of Marlcillej.
(Signed)
MAURRAILLE, Mayor.
[Here follow aifo the ilgnatures of the
other officers of the municipality of Mar
seilles.}
The following is a complete liji of the pxefent Con
gress of the Un.ted States.
GEORGE. WASHINGTON, President,,
John Adams, Vice-Prelldent. Senators—
From New-Hampshire, John Langdon,
Paine Wingate. Maflachufetts, George
Cabot, Caleb Strong. Rhode-Island, The
odore Fofler, Joseph Stanton. Connefti-'
cat, Oliver Elfvvorthj Roger Sherman.
Vermont, Stephen R. Bradley, Moses Po
binfon. New-York, Aaron Burr, Rufus
King. New-Jersey, Philemon Dickinfori,
John Rutherford. Pennsylvania, Robert
Morris. Delaware, Richard Bafi'ett,
George Read. Maryland, Charles Car
roll, John Henry, v irginia, James Mon
roe > John Taylor. Kentnckey, Johii
Brown, John Edwards. North-Carolina,
Benjamin Hawkins, Samuel Johnfton.
South-Carolina, Pierce Butler, Ralph Izard,
Georgia, William Few, Gnnn —
Rcprejentatives • New-Hampfliire, Nicholas
Gilinan, Samuel Livermore, Jeremiah
Smith. Maflachufetts, Fisher Ames, Shear
jafnub Bourne, Elbridge Gerry, Benjamin
Goodhue, George Leonard, Theodore
Sedgwick, Gebrge Thatcher, Artemas
Ward. Rhode-Island, Benjamin Bourne;
Connecticut, James Hillhoufe, Air.afa
Learned, Jonathan Sturges, Jonathan
Trumbull (Speaker), Jeremiah Wadf
worth. Vermont, Nathaniel Niles, Jfraet
Smith. New-Yo'rk, Egbertßenfon, James
Gordon, John .Lawrence, Cornelius C.
Schoonm'aker, Peter Sylvester, Thomas
Treadwell. New-Jersey, Flias fioudiriot,
Abraham Clark, Jonathan Dayton, Aaron
kitchell. Pennsylvania. William Findley,
Thomas Fitzlimons, Andrew Gregg, Tho
mas Hartley, Daniel Heilter, Israel Jacobs,
John Wilkes Kittera, Frederic Augustus
Muhlenberg. . Delaware, John Vifiing,
Maryland, Philip Key, John F. Mercer,
William Vans Murray, Joshua Seney, Up
ton Shercittne, Samuel Sterrett. Virginia,
William B. Giles, Samuel Griffin, Richard
Bland Lee,JamesMadifon, Andrew Moore,
.John Page, Jofiah Parker, Abraham Vene
ble, Alexander White. Kenttfokey, Chris
topher Greeniip, Alexander t>. Orr. N-
Carolina, John Baptill Alhe, William Bar
iy Grove, Nathaniel Macon, John Steele,
Hugh Williamfon. South-Carolina. Ro
bert Barnwell, Daniel Huger, William
Smith, Thomas Sumter, Thomas Tuder
Tucker. Georgia, Abraham Baldwin/
John Milledge, Francis Willis.
KID, and Co.
PERFUMERS, &c.
Have just imported in the P 1 G O U, and "other
late arrivals from Europe, and now open for
Sale, at their store, No. 222, in Market above
Sixth-street,
A antral ajf<)rtmert of the foUcivxn?
GOODS, viz.
LADIES* and Gentlemens* japaned drefljng
cases complete, of ail forts
Ge iilemenj)' (having cases, povvder bags, boxes
and powder puffs of ail forts
Tortoi{hell, ivory, and horn combes, of all kinds
To«rh brufiles, dragon roots and tooth powder
All kinds of the best cloaths brushes
Ladies' Aiders for the hair
Best Windsor soap, all kinds of wash balls
Powder malks and court-plaifter
Silk purses and gloves tops
All kinds of raifors, warranted
Pocket, pen, and sporting knives
Sciflors of ail kinds
Pinchiug, curling and spring irons
A general aiTortmeut of poc&et.books, ladies'
thre2d-cafes and etwes
Best Engliih, Cheshire, and Gjoucefter cheeses
Wix, wax candles, and sealing-wax
Mefl'age cards of all kinds
All kinds of'hair powder
Engliih, French, and other pomatums
rambotiied, Caflimier and mu/linec £waiftcoaC
pal ferns.
Ar elegant ajjertmerit of
Ready made Milinary,
Consisting 01 full dress, Caps, Hats, ana B or.net s.
Fine chip hats
Black an'i coloured beaver hats, best quality
An affortnient of the moll fafhioriabie riDbons
And beads for trimmings and other ornaments.
hive /ikeieifs reec:vt4 a f'c/b [vpp.s of
MILK Of roses:
They Btg leave to inform the ladies, that they
continue to make all kinds of ornamental falje'
hair upon an entire new method, and of so lithe
aiiUedly a conftrudlion, that they look better than
when a lady is drefled by the rr.oft txuelt hair
dresser.
An aftortment of elegant cut Steel Watch
Chain», Seals, Watch Keys, 3cc. Aitli a var.ety o{
other goodr, too tedious to tLuit",crate.
November ic. 4 V.-. 2IW .f CdntimitJfrom thef.rjl page of tins paptr.~\
rpe became horrible within ti palace,
where the cowards that had ts'caped, join
ed with the valets of the court, who were
likewise armed, and prepared to sustain a
combat, which they did not imagine
would have become so serious. The «efti
bule, the grand Hair cafe, the chapel, the
anti-chambers, the galleries, the hall of
the throne, and the council chamber, at
once broke in upon by the people, were
all tarnished with blood of the Swiss and
the king's valets; they were known by
their liveries, and guilty, as they were, of
the word of treachery, were treated with
out pity. ThejuHice of the people dis
played itfelf in all its horror. Every a
partment was searched for the discovery
of traitors. An Abbe, preceptor to the
son of Louis XVI. had concealed eight
in his apartment,at the bottom of a large
press, of which he had the keys, When
they came to feaich his chamber, his
embarrassed air betrayed him, ai>d Ik:
and they were immolated by the too
vindictive people. Noi" could the Abbe
Bouillon escape, nor Clermont Tonoere,
who was overtaken in the Rue de Seves-
Saint-Germain. The choice spirit of
the arillocrates ; he to whom the queen,
that she might reward him for having
ir.ade her laugh at the expence of the
patriots, had given a peufion of twenty
five thousand livres per annum from the
civil lift, with the addition of a handsome
wife-, Suleau, in the uniform of a nation
al grenadier, was difeovered, and put to
death, as he was watching round the pa
lace. The evening before, he had vaun
ted, that the king might depend on ten
thousand men, capable of putting all the
Parilians to the rout.
Generosity had been 101 l on the callous
hearts of courtiers >with them examples
of terror only can prevail. These the
people gave : they granted no quarter to
the inmates of the palace. The Swiss,
and others, who had fled to the roof,
were hurled headlong down. Some were
caught in the out houses and some in the
kitchens, where all were put to death ;
accomplices as they were of their maftsr,
and estranged from their country. The
tery cellars were searched, where thousands
of torches were found, apparently collect
ed for the conflagration of Paris, when
another Nero should give the signal.
Nor did they flop here ; the fugitives in
red were pursued over the garden, into
the Elyfian fields, on the terrace, into the
wood, and through the gardens of the
prince. Nor were the Swiss porters, who
opened the gates for the maflacre of the
men of Marseilles, spared : the sanguinary
ast did but too deeply merit punishment
Sixty Slvifs were tried by a martial law,
and executed before the common hall.
The people went to the house of the
Sieur d'Affry,but that courtly Swiss made
his escape through the back door of the
hotel to the national guards, who with
great difficulty coudn&ed him fafe to the
abbey, where he is imprisoned.
Let us leave the palace for a moment
for the garden of the Infanta, which was
intrepidly scaled by the battalion of St.
Germain l'Auxerrois.—Never was great
er ardour beheld. The king's friends,
stationed in that part of the Louvre where
the war minister keeps his offices, fired
upon the people. These savages in black
were polled there to make a divcrfion,
and gain merit in the eyes of Antoinette
and her king. The Swiss of Courbevoie
appeared at the end of the Champs Ely
fees,where they were shewn an order from
the king to lay down their arms They
obeyed and returned, having had a view
of many of their breathless comrades.
The people divided the spoil of the
dead, but not by way of clothing them
selves ; the fans culottes wou'd have no
thing more than each a remnant, as a
proof of their victory over the armed va
lets of the monarch. They dii'played the
fame moderation, or rather the fame ge
nerosity, relative to the rich effects with
which the palace was filled. Men, with
scarcely a coat to cover them, brought
purses, filled with gold and silver coin,
without opening them ; the queen's
jewels, the plate both of the chapel and
iHe palace, a hat full of Louis d'Ors, af
fignats and letters, and laid them all be
fore the national aflemhiy Others seized
en the treasury of the Swiss, and brought
it triumphantly to the fame place, while
emigrant officers have carried oft with
them their regimental chests.
Much of the furniture and mod of the
elaiTes were broken. The wine was not
fparcd, Jut the mo!t trifling theft was no
sooner discovered than punished. One
thief taken in the fact was executed in
the place. A hundred other thieves
during that day and eight, and the mor
row, were executed.
What a fpeftacle was Paris, and espe
cially the place of action, on the evening
of the loth of Augult ! Labour and
trade were interrupted, the workfhep and
the cotinter deserted. Amid apparent
disorder, there was a strong mxture of
harmony, fraternity, sensibility, venge
ance, gentrofity and barbarity !
Every street was io arms,yet nooutrage
commit ted in the streets. But, alas ! the
citizens were grievously and too often af
ftifted at the light of patriots dying or
wounded, borne home by their comradcs,
and followed by their weeping family. E
very eye, every step was dire&ed to the pa
lace which sent forth volumes of smoke.
The Carouzel appeared to be a vafl binn
ing furnace. In order to enter the palace it
was necessary to cross two of its wings,
which were reeking in their embers, and
to trample either on burning beams or on
bodies net yet cold. The court of the
princes was but an other afpett of the
fame picture ; it presented the facade of
the palace battered from top to bottom
by the national cannon, some of which Hill
seemed to threaten the too long abode of
royal vice. Here too the dead lay
strewed. But how describe the vestibule,
the Hair cafe, the chapel, and the apart
ments ? It was horror not to be ex ceeded.
Yet even this horror might be endured,
by recolledting who had been their inhabi
tants. The walls and floors were stained
with blood, covered with broken weapons,
and the limbs of men, mingled with torn
garments, royal robes, velvets worked in
gold with fleurde lis, furniture broken,
fluttered vases, bottles distributed to the
mercenary executioners of the despot, and
dead bodies at every step ! The palace
gate leading to the terrace was obftru&ed
by heaps of dead, almost naked, and as if
still biting the dust, their hands grasped
in rage to have fallen by the sword of the
people. Every alley of that noble garden,
the admiration of foreigners, and the pride
of nature and of art, pie'fented nothing
but more dead and more ; forac under the
trees, some extended beneath the statues,
and others strewed over with grass and the
flowers of the garden ; and,to give the lad
touch to this fearful scene, the wooden
barracks of the Swiss all on fire, and the 1
flames lighting those who were loading
numerous carriages brought to take away
the dead from the place de Louis XV.
By the fide of this scene ofhorror fat
Louis XVI. the author ofallthefe lament
able tragedies, at a well replenished table
in the room of one of the committees of
the national aflembly, eating and drinking
as usual, in company of his silent and
enraged wife j (lie biting her lips at not
having been better seconded in dreadful
crimes and deplorable guilt.
No part of the palace of the Thuille
ries washurt.fave where the cannon struck,
and which can be repaired; but the bar
racks which surrounded it, and which
ipoiled its appearance, were consigned to
flames, and are levelled with the ground.
It is most likely that it will be consigned
in future to a hall for the aflembly, bu
reaus for the natioual business, and apart
ments for the miniller and Prefidcnt of
the republic.
Prices Current at Philadelphia.
[Dollars equal to 100 cents.J
ASHES Pot per ton 90 Dols. to 100 d
Aflies Pearl 137 — —140.
Bacon flitches per lb. 7 cents.
Bacon (houlders — 6 do.
Bees wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27.
Brandy, Coniac, pergl. 1 doi. 11c
Brandy, common, goc.
Butter, in kegs, per lb. 11 £. to 12.
Beef, Boston, per barrel 7d to Sd.
... — Country ditto 6d to 7d.
Coals, per bu/hel, 20 c. to 22
Coffee, per lb. 17 10 18 c.
Cotton, per lb. 27 c. to 37
Chetfe, country, per lb. 8c to 10c.
fcfcnglifh 19c.
Chocolate, per Id* 17c to iSc.
Codfifh, per cwt. 3d. 50c.
Cordage, American, per cwt. 7d 67c. to Bd.
Duck, English No- r. per yd. 28c.
1 cent less for ever) number
— Rufiia, per bolt ud. 33c.
Dutch fail duck, ißd. tc 2od.
SaiJ cloth, Bolton No. I.,per yd. 30c.
Flax feed, por buih. 90c* to idol.
Flax, per lb. 11 #to 12 c.
Flour, fuperfine, per barrel, 4<3. 93c.
Common, 4 dols. 67 c.
Burr middlings, best, per brl. 4d.
Meal Indian 3 dols.
Rye 3 dols.-
Ship ftutf, £-cr cwt, 80 c. to j dol.
Gin, Holland, per cafe, 4 dob. 33 c.
Ginseng per lb. 20 c. to 24
Grain, barley, per bushel, 73 to 80c.
—— — best shelled, per lb. 3c.
Buck-wheat, per bushel, 40 c.
Indian corn, 51 c. Oats 35 c. pr. bush.
Rye 44c, Wheat 91c.
Herrings, per barrel 3d.
Hoops, hogfluad, per M. 15<3«
■ ■ Barrel, 7<i toßd.
Hams, per lb. 10c. II t®
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dob. to 146 67c.
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9 c. to i t
Indigo, Carolina, per lb. 1 dol, to 1 dol. 10 c.
irofl, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
Cartings, per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nail-rods per ton 96 dols.
Pig, per ton, 24 dols. to 26 dob. 6f c.
Sheet, per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
Leather, foal, per lb. 14c. so 17c. 20cJ
Logwood per ton 3od.
Lard, hogs, per lb. 10c. to JI
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
In pigs, — — 5 dols. 33 c. to 5 dob* 67 cJ
Red, —— 6 dols. 40 c. to 0 dols. 67 c.
White, — 10 dols. to 10 dols. 67 c»
Mackerel, best, per bbi. Bd.
Madder, best, per lb. 16c. to 20c.
Myrtle wax per lb. 16 c.
Molaftes, per gal. 50 c. to 54
Nails, Bd. iod. J2d and 20d. per lb. ioc<
Nutmegs, per lb. B.C*—'-Bd. 67c*
Oil, Linseed, per gallon, 65 to 67 c.
— Oiive, 87c.
per cafe 2d. 50c.
Sweet best in balkcts, 12 bot. 564
—————30 flafks, in boxes iod 50c.
—Spermaceti, per gal. 48c.
|?>■ Train 24c. to 27c.
—■ Whale, 22c. to 24c.
Pepper, per lb. 38c*
Pimento, ■ j9c.
Porter per ca/k, 56. 33c.
Porter, London, per dozen, 1 dol. 60 c«
American, do. j d. 4 c. to 1 d. 60 c«
Pitch, per barrel, idol. 73 c. to 2 dols.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, I idols to II d 33 c
Lower County, do. jo dols.
Carolina, do. 9 dols.
Rjtffins, Mufcatella, per box 3d.
■Hr>w»ffiar do. per-jar 2d. 50c.
-Sun do. per keg gd.
Rice, per 112 lb. 2 dols. 50 c. to 2 dol. 67 c.
RjjMn, per barrel, 2 dolls. 78 c.
Rum, Antigua, per gallon, J dol.
Barbadoes, do. do. 83 c.
New-England, &c. 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. 7c.
Windward Jland, &6c.
Salmon, per bbl. 6d. 50c. t0 7d.
Scantling, heart, pei M. 23d. 33c.
Sap, Bd. to 8d 67c.
Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 2d. 33c. to ad 67c.
2 feet, £d 33c. to 6
3 feet, drefied, 13d. to 13d.
Salt, (Allurp) per bushel, 24 to 27 c.
Cadiz, 23 to 24 c.
Lilbon, ————— 25 to 27 c.
Liverpool, ——— 29 c.
Skins, Deer, in hair, per lb. 20 $0 30 c.
Red, ditto, ■■ 26.t0 33 c.
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
Sugar, Havanna, white, per lb. 17 to 18 c.
Brown, per lb. 11 to izc.
Mulcovado, per c wt. 13 d. to 1 5 d.
Lump, per,lb. 24 c.
Loaf, single refined, 26 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 c.
Tallow, refined, per lb. 9 c.
Tin, per box 13d. 33c. to 67c.
Tar, New-Jer(ey, 24 gal. to the brl. 1 do).
Carolina, 32 gal. 1 dol. 33 c. to 1 dol. 67
Turpentine, per barrel, l dol. 67 c. to 2 dob,
s"ea, H)fon, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
Hjfon /kin, 53 c. to 67
Sou/hong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 31 c. to 33
Tobacco, James River, t>eft. per cwt. 3 dob. 60
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 3 dob. 33c.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 3 dob. 33 c.
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl. 33 c. to, 8 i
Dark, 2 dob. 40 c.
Long leaf, 2 dob. 4 0 c>
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dob. 23 c.
Carolina, old, 3 dob. 33 c
Carolina, new, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dob.
ATine, Madeira, per pipe, 176 dl. to 226 dl. 67c.
Lilbon, —— 120 to 126
TenerifFe, per gal. 63.
Fayal, ■ 52
Port, per pipe, 113dol* 33 c.
Sherry, per gal. 90 c. to id. 20c.
NOTICE.
THIS is to foiwarn all masters of vefTels an<i
others, at their peril, not to take a certain
mulatto Boy, named Lewis Boget, formerly of
Cayenne, out of this city, he being lawfully bound
§nd apprenticed to me, untill 16th Nov. 1793}
as I have reason to fufpeft he is endeavouring to
leave this city. JAMES ROBLR TSON*
New-York, OCtober 9. tf
Manufactured and for Sale,
At No. 11, North Sixth -Jlrert,
Fafliionable Ronnd Top and Flat
BUTTONS,
Warranted superior to any imported of
equal price.
Country Store-keepers fuppUed either in
finall or large quantities, By
S. POST & Co.
N.B. Conkfhel Buttons. Buckles, &c.
o£t. 17. sawtf
GEOGRAPHY.
Mathew Carey.
Refpe&fully submits to the Citizens of the Uni
ted States, the following
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION?
An AMERICAN EDITION of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED.
of which tbefe are the terms :
I. TT shall be publi/hed in 48 weekly numbers#
X each containing three iheets, or twenty
four pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed
with new typss on fine paper.
ll* In the course of the work will be deli
vered about thirty large maps, of the fame lize
as those in the European editions viz. most of
them sheet maps on post paper.
Besides the maps in the Britijh editions»
this work will contain maps cf as many of the
United States as can be readily procured, executed
by the beji engravers in the United States•
111. The price of each number will be a qaa»-
ter dollar, to r be paid on delivery.— ad
vance required.
IV. The work will be put to press as soon as
700 copies are lubferibed for.
V. Subscribers who disapprove of the
work, ©n the publication cf the tr.ree num
bers, are to be at liberty to return them, and
(hall have their money repaid*
VI The fubferibers' names ihall be prefixed as
patrons of the undertaking.
Perhaps there is no science more entertaining
and ufefu! than geography. It reveals the dis
coveries of travellers—the remarkable curiosities
of all countri;s, in nature and art—the filuaii
0n of provinces, cities, towns villages, livers,
and mountains—in fine, the history, manners#
customs, laws, forces, revenues, and government
of different nations.
It is an old observation, that '• there is not a
son or daughter of Adam, but has some concern
with geography," and that a knowledge of this
feienefc is indifpen'fable towards the study of his
tory with advantage or fatista&ion. Indeed a
man unacquainted with it, cannot discourse on
the most common newspaper topic of the day
without betra>ing his ignorance;
So much for geography generally. With ref
pe& to the present plan, let it fuffice to remark*-
that Guthrie's Geography has been long acknow
ledged to be the best in the Englifti language;
however, the account of America in it has, from
obvious reasons, been very erroneous and defec
tive. The errors of former editions will be cor
rected, and the defers f applied j by gentlemen of
abilities, who have engaged to superintend tfiis
undertaking, and to avail themfelyes of all the
information that can be procured, to render it
the most complete edition extant.
The Printer earnestly solicits- the support of
his fellow citizens throughout the United States :
and as no deposit is required, and every fubferi-'
ber will be at liberty to withdraw his name, if,
on trial, he should disapprove of the work, he
hopes the friends of science, and of American arts
and manufa&ures, will cheerfully and early pat
ronize this ufefu I work, the greatest and molt
expensive, probably, ever yet attempted in Ame
rica, in the typograpical line, tile Encyclopaedia
excepted.
Phila. Nov. 9th. 1792. lawtf.
FOR SALE,
A good MILL SEAT,
And an excellent 4and for a country (lore,
Situate on Millstone-Creek, about ftven miles frqm.
Hide's Town or Cr/2i}berry, en the %reat roafl
leading from Hide's Town to Monmsutb
court-house, in JVew-JerJey,
THERE are one hundred and fixty-fev.en acres
and an half of good land in the above men
tioned tradt j a new mill thereon 28 by 40 feet,
ju ft built j an exaellent stream of water; the
mill enjoys a head of wat?r between 6 and 7
feet ; has 2 pair of stones, and water fufficient
to drive 4 pair ; about 25 acres of excellent mea
dow, and about 20 acres more to be maJe with
great convenience ; two good frame dwelling
houses thereon, built about 4 yeais since, with
kitchens to both j a barn and stables ; excellent
water close to the door, and including about 25
acres of excellent wood land. For terms apply
to Jofepb Jeurtfee on -he premises, or at M i Kean
and Van Emburgb's store on their wharf immedi
ately next below Arch-ftieet, to
ROBERT M'KEAN :
Who has for Sale,
Five Grants of Land in Franklin county, in
the flat e of Georgia, of 1000 acres each ;
Situate on Broad River, anu taken up 28th
June last. One grant in the fame county and
state, of one tboufand acres, daced 25th May,
1790. One of two hundred and eighty-feyen a
cres and an half, in the fame county and state, da
ted 23d April, 1789, and on Trail Creek ; and
one grant of two hundred and cighty-feven acres
and an half, in the fame county and state, on the
Occonee River.
Pniiad. Oft. 31. 4t e. w.
Threehandfome Editions of the Laws
of the United States for [ale at this office
(No. 209 Market flreet) m folio and o&a~
vo, either full or half bound—N*B. The
Laws of the lajl Session, in octavo only, may
be hadfe}arate, price three eighths of a dollar 9
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S AND SWAINS
AT THEIR OFFICE N0.209, HIGH -STREET
NEAR FIFTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA*