Vol. I.
LONDON, June io.
state trial of
WARREN HASTINGS, Esquire.
Wednesday, June 6.
FOUR witneffesop.behalf of the defend
ant were examined by Mr. Raftings'
counsel, andcrofs examined by Mr. Burke
Lord Hawke. and Lord Towtifon.—
When they had fmifhed, Mr. Hastings
earnestly intreated their lordships atten
tion for a few minutes ; and as the mat
ter' he had to state appeared to 'him ex
tremely important he begged to address
them from his notes, which the lords rea
dily agreeing to, he spoke as follows:
" I have already upon former occasions
ventured to state to your lordships, the
hardships which I have sustained by the
unexampled length of this tryal, even in
the more early periods of it, I mean not
now to repeat them, nor will it be necef
fary to shew to your locdfhips how much
they mult be all aggravated by their sub
sequent extcnfion. I merely allude to
them for the puipofc, and for that only,
of bespeaking; your pardou for the liberty
I now take in praying your lordships to
allow me as much time as you can afford
during your fefiion, to hear the temainder
of my defence. I (hould not anxiously
prtfs this upon your lordfiiips, were I not
assured that your lordships have no longer
any call for your attention to matters of
great importance, if any matter can ex
ceed in its importance the course of a ctj
minal trial protra&ed to such a length of
years as mine has been.
•'For my defence on the article now
in evidence before your kr< (1 j.s,
my counsel will difire only to call two
more witnesses, fele£ted froc.i the fuvviyors
of a much larger number, whom we for
bear to call, from refpe£t of your lord
fiiips time, and a consideration of the
uncertainty of my life or theirs enduring
to the end of a more complete refutation
of the charge which the commons have
preferred against me. The examination
in chief of tlvefe witnesses (for I cannot
limit the time of the cross examination,
n6r answer for that which may be loft by
interruptions) will not take up trie compafis
of two, or at most three hours.
"Two more articles will then remain.
On one only will it be necessary to call
any parole evidence ; and for that onlv,
three witneffeß ; one, a gentleman of very
infirm health, who was fettled with his fa
ther in the South of France, but came to
England in the firft year of thi6 long trial,
and has remained here till this time, in
yearly expeflation of giving his evidence
at your lordships bar. Among the gen
tlemen whom I hope to be allowed to pro
duce in evidence to the article now under
examination, there is one, who having gi
ven his attendance through a conliderable
part nf the firft year, when it became evi
dent that he could not be called till the
next year informed me that his means of
fubfifter.ee, though not his paticnce. were
exhausted ; and requested me to dispense
with his evidence, that he might return
to his service in India. I without hefita
tion cheerfully consented That gentleman
accordingly went to India, served with
credit two campaigns under Lord Corn
wallis, is again returned to England, and
again in attendance to live his evidence
in my defence Your lordships will not
be fuiprifed if I should feel a more than
common anxiety to lose a witness whom
I have recovered in so singular a manner
from so many obftaeles whicli threatened
to deprive me of the benefit of his tcfliino
ny, nor to lose so impieflive a memorial
of the extraordinary character of this
impeachment:
" It is hard, with so near a profpedt of
a close, to fee it vanish into darkness; and
another year, or perhaps other years, if I
By IV FR E 'NEAU: Publijhtd Wednesday's and Saturdays, at T ijree Dollars per annum.
SAT U R i, Augufl: 18, 1792.
Iroi'.ld live to fee them, (MillSed for the
continuation of this trial.*
" L,tt me befeccfi your lordlhips to re
collidt, that more than five years are al
ready pall since I firft appeared at your
.ordfi.ips bar, and I am sure, that if any
one of tl.c noble lords wlio were then liv
ing, and fivv me there, had becu to:d (ii
ImmVn wisdom, which is the result of ex
perience, could have fuggelled fueh a con
c 'uJion) that more than five years mult
pals ere 1 could obtain a judgment, he
would have pronounced il the
course of nature to expcdl it, and have rc
fented the fuppolition, as an unmerited
reflexion on the jullice and dignity of
this great kingdom.
" In the firll year, which was the year
1788, the court which your lordlhip3 now
compose, fat 35 days, generally assembling
at twelve o'clock, iomet:mes earlier, and
fitting until five, and occasionally later.
I his year your lordlhips have fct, within
a week of the fame period of time, only
lixttcn days, and Wave seldom been able to
open the court much carlkr than two o'
clock. I Ihonld be as ungrateful as un
re.ifonab'.e, if I could insinuate that these
delay* \veie in any refpeft imputable to
your lordlhips ; neither is it my wish to
impute blame to any : it ik the effect, not
the cause, of which I may complain.
" Yet, my lords,if I might be allowed to
expostulate with those, whose zeal ani
mating them to exertions and to a perfe
vcrance, of which, ev. 11 in that body there
le few examples, brought me to the
situation in which I now Hand ; I miiilit
now plead, and surely without offence,
that the rights and interelts of ■ the peo
pie of this kingdom, and the honour of
its crown, which were the great induce
ment stated by the commons of Great-
Britain for calling together its highelt
court of judicature to tit in trial upon me,
are at lealt concerned in their using the
fame exertions to promote the c. ur'e of
that trial, and to bring it to an issue.
" My refpeft forbids me to fay more on
the fubjett, norlhou'd I have said so much,
but to make it evident to your lordlhips,
that whatever causes of del: y have occur
red, or tnay in future occur, in the course
ofthisttial, if it can he (uppofed that I
would wi.linglv be ir.ftrumental to my
wrong, neither have been nor I .ill be in
any w?y imputable to me. In proof of this
I have alluded to, but need not fpecify,
the many conllitutional, and even person
al means, to which I have had recourfc, to
accelerate the progiefs of the trial, ai:d
remove every obftrudiion to it.
" That I might not again urge a re
quell to your lordlhips, which it might
not be in your lordlhips powers to grant,
1 have been profited bv the error which I
have been told I committed in the peti
tion which I lalt year presented to your
lordlhips, and have addressed an humble
petition to his majelty, praying that he
would be gracioully plcafed to permit
your lordlhips to continue to fit. till the
close of the trial.
"I rely with a perfect confidence on h:.?
maji dy'3 gracious difpofuion to grant my
prayer, and in that cafe, I do assure your
lordlhips that every possible nuanf. Il;all be
used by me, and by the gentlemen whom
you have given me for my rounfel to bring
my defence to a speedy conclusion.
" If, which 1 relmftantly luppofr, it
fliall be deemed unreafonablc, or torcaufes
which cannot fall within the scope cf my
limited comprehenliori, improper, 1 do
moll humbly and carnedly entreat your
lordlhips, in that cafe, that you w ill afford
me as many days as may be nedeffary to
bring the present article to a close, and to
allow my counlel to sum up the evidence
while it is yet recent in your lordlhips re
collection."
After 1 his address their lordlhips ad
journed to the house of lords.
AUTHENTIC PARTICULARS
i-'.ciatrvc to the tojs of the Pandora Frigate,
Captain Edwards-
ON the 17th of November 1790, hu
M.,jelly's frig ale Pandora, failed from En
gi.md in quell of the pirates w : io had for.
ciliiy fci/cd his majelty's florelhip, ttu
ljniity, commanded by lieutenant Bligh.
ana Btter reirelhing at Terierifle and Rii
jai.tiro, they proceeded towards the Pa
oiftc Ocean.
On the 23d of March tl.ey arrived al
Otaheite, wiitre, ;:f;er foine difficulty, thej
secured 14 out of 16 of the pi rates thin
had betn left
there by the Bounty, (th<
other two having been murdered, eitlu'i
among thefelves or by the natives) as al
lo a 1 mall schooner they had built witl
the ai!ill anc e of the' natives,with an in tat
tiou to carry them to India. They hai
really failed, but meeting with bad we'sf
thcr, and difagreeirtg among tbcmlelve:
concerning the abilities of the person the)
had appointed to command her, had re
turned to Otaheite fomc time before tin
Pandora's arrival.
The Bounty kft Otaheite with Chris
tian, the chief, and eight others of 'lie pi
rates, some time in September, 1789, as
tcr dividing the arir.s, and other fmal
(lores equally with the above mentions
pirates ; and although the Pandora, crnif
ed three or 4 months in thole fcas, and ex
arained a great number of idands (fevera
of which were new difcoveri(s) they couk
not get the leaPi inti either of the
Bouniy, r.r the remaining pirates.
From journals kept by pirates on board
:h« Bounty, it appears that after forcing
!ie&teuant Bligh, I.is officers and men ou!
of ihe ship they vent to Torranioc, ar
island in those seas, discovered by Captain
Cooke, were they proposed to fettle ; bul
having dellrcyeJ the bread fruit and othet
plants that were on board the Bounty,
and finding themfrlves in want of many
other neceflaries to complete their fchemc
tiny returned to Otaheite to get such ar
ticles as they were in need o( On theii
arrival, tiiey told the natives that they
had met with Capt. Cooke at an island
where he intended to make a settlement,
and had left the bread-fruit and othei
plants with him ; a'fo lieutenant Bligh,
and the other abfenteea, to aflift in the
biilinefs they had in hand ; and that cap
tain Cooke, had appointed Cbriflian com
mander of the Bounty, and had sent them
to Otaheite lor more bread-fruit, phnts,
hogs, fowls, &c.
The natives, overjoyed to hear that
captain Cooke had fettled so near them,
in a (liort time ftipplied them vv.th 30c
hogs, a bull, a cow, and a great quantity
of poultry, and other articles ; alio witl
some of the natives of both lexes ; am
with which they returned to Torbanitr.
On their arrival, they landed their docJi
on lmall Islands near the mouth of thi
harbour lightened the Ihip, and liaulee
her rippo'ite to the place which they pro
posed to fortify. After making some pro
grelb with their fortification they difagreec
among themfelyes ; ar.d having frequenl
fl< 11mifhes with the natives, which wert
generally oecafioiied by their depredations
and other violences, the woik on the fori
ceased ; and Chriflian, finding he had en
trelyloft his authority among them, pro
posed that they flionld coufult together,
and w hat was belt to be done ;
and that lie would put into execution, the
resolution that was lupponedby the great
eft number of votes. After long coiiful
tat ions among themfelyes, it was at kft
agreed to rclinquifh the plan of fettling at
Torbanice, and to return to Otaheite,
and that those that chose to day there
might, and others that ihofe to ilay by
I the ship, might go where they thouglit
proper. They accordingly proceeded tfi
Otalicile, and fcparaied as before menti
oned.
Captain Edwards, having given up a!:
Numb. 84.
hopes of finding the remaining piratea
was returning home by Endeavourrtraits
where tile Pandora was Unfortunately loft
on the reef of New South Wales ( on the
29th of Augull 1791, in Int. 23 South.
Ninety-nine of the people were faedby
the boats ; thirty four were lo'l with the
(hip, among whom were four ot the pi
rates. They went with boats a small
illand about three miles from tlicr wreck,
jphere they landed the few articles of pro
vision, &c. they had saved, and immedi
ately returned 1 11 search of the people that
were miffing, but had not the good for
tune to find any of them.
livery b .dy was now bufi'y employed
fitting the boats for their intended paffige
to li;nor, which occupied them two
d|ys, during which time they sent a boat
to the wreck ; the only article they got
Lorn Jicr was, the main-top gallant-malt
(being nearly even with the water edge)
and the light niitg conductor, which prov
ed very ufeful on the account cf the fear,
city of mails.
On 1 tie 31ft of August, having com
pleted the boats, they launched them and
embarked, having been on the following
ftllowance ofprovifions and water lince the
li>fs of the ship to her arrival at Timor:
i'o each tnan, two ounces of bread, two
small glafles of water, and one i f wine, the
three being nearly equ.-.l to half a pint ;
halt an ounce of e fie nee of malt, and half
30 ounce of portable soup.
Alter a passage of three days, they
ouched at Prince of Wales's ifiands, in
he (traits, and filled eveiy v.flel they had
hat woulj hold water, which barely a
nounted to a gallon for each man ; after
*hich they proceeded through Endeavour*
straits, to Timor, where all the boats ar
•ived between the 16th and 18th of Sco
: ember, without having 101 l a man, a'l
hojigh the allowance of water and provi
sions was so very small, and they were
crowded into four boatr, viz. two small
.•utters, the long boat, and pinnzce. They
tiad unfortunately parted company with
the schooner they took from the pirates
(which Captain Edwards had armed and
fttted as a tender) off the Navigators ill
and. They arrived with the fchoonerat
jamoran, in the ifi.ind of J;ivi, nearly
the lame time Capt. Edwards did ue Ti
mor, after enduring great hardfliips
want of provisions and water.
On their tu Wval at Compile, the capi
ulof' the Dutch fettli.iients at Timor,
hey were treat; -i with the greatest huma
tity and attention, by Governor Wanjon,
md the other gentlemen of the place.
There they found 8 men, a woman and
two children, that had made their escape
from Botany Bays in an open fix-oared '
: utter.
These villains imposed on Governor
Wanjon, by pretending to have been cast
ivvay on the coalt of New Holland, in a
:ranfport bound to B itany Bay ; but' in a
hort lime having given the fettkment
lome specimen of their former
ind in a dispute among themselves called
:ach other couvidt, Governor Warjon ex
imined them, and finding the Itory of
their being call away a falfhood, confined
them until the 6th ot Oftobcr, when he
delivered them to capt. Edwards, who had
aken a passage with his (hip's company,
jn board of a Dutch fiiip bound to Bata
ina, where they waited lor a p-lf.ge to
England
'1 he beginning of last December, capt.
Edwardshad agreed to fend 20 of his peo
ple home in each of the company's fliips
that failed firfi. for Europe, and an officer
with them ;to go with the la It divifiou
tiimfelf, and to take the provisions with
nim.
Capt. Hunter, of his majeflv's trip Si.
ri 11s, lastly 101 lon Norfolk liland, failed
from Batavia about the widd;e 0* the tall
G6io'oer, for England, with bis (hip*,
company, on board of a Dutch (hip that '
had been at Botany Bay with piovifiujuand which was purchafcd by Governor
Philips on account of government, for
that purpole.
The iatelt accounts from Russia speak
very little of war. There have been level
al attempts made to poison the Empress,
it was supposed by the tools of a French
fadtion iu the kingdom. In confluence
of thefc atrocious attempts, an order of
Hate has been issued for appiehending
those concerned in the plot, of whom, it
was reported nine or ten had been seized.
It isalfo said, that a Royal Editt had
been issued, mak ng it death for any
Fienchman to be found within the Rui
fian bounds after a limited time.
WELCH INDIANS.
[From an English Paper]
MUCH has been said of Welch Ind?
ans in America ; and there is scarcely :
We'chman who does not believe that ttii:
extensive continent was discovered by
his great anceilor, Owen Madoc, in th<
year of Chriit 1170, or 322 years befori
the a. rival of Columbus.
The tribes now thought to have de
fcended from Wclchmen, left in Americ;
by Owen Mado;, are known by the Indiai
name of PaJoucas, or Welch Indians, called
by some, the White Indians, whofecoun
try is (ituated far wtftward of the Miffifip
pi. — That the Indian natives of Americ:
have for many years pad emigrated fron
the eallward to the wellward is a knowt
fuft. That the ribes abovementioned,whc
speak the Welch tongue, may have dom
the fame, is much within the order of pro
bability, and that the White or Welcl
Indians now reside at or near the banks o
the river Missouri, is scarcely to be doubt
ed, every traveller having confirmed thi
fadl. They are denominated by the French
the white-bearded Indians; and are fait
to be really white. They pofftfs thirty
two villages, or towns ; are exceedingl]
civilized, and vailly attached to certaii
religious ceremonies, Their situation i:
about toco miles from the Illinois.
A gentleman has lately arrived from tin
American I tdi.in country, who had re
mained foine time among the Padooc;
tribes. He was introduced to the chief o:
the principal tribe, and was received witl
much solemnity, owing to his being o
•white complexion. He was treated witl
much frier.dfhip and hospitality, was call
ed the Angel of God, and every day hac
his hands and feet washed by order of th<
chieftain, who appeared much advanced ii
years, his hair being long and perse % 1;
white He further informs, that the pco
pic chiefly fubfiit by the produce of thi
chace ; that the inlt> ununts they use or
the occasion arc generally bows and ar
rows ; that the further he advanced fron
the frontiers, the different tribes he paflcc
through were the more civilized ; tha:
he supposed the r< afon to be (which I an
afraid is the cafe) ow ng to the continua
encroachments mnde on their land by rh<
white p?opl- in those parts contiguous tc
them. The late tranfaftions on the bad
frontiers of the United States of America
it is probable, are owing to the fame cir
cumftance.
It maybe necessary to remark, that tin
distance from the mouth of the Miflifipp
to the entrance of the MifTouri into it, i:
about i;oo miles, that the navigation o
the Miliilippi, upwards, is tedious and dif
ficult, owing to the current continually
running the fame way, by which means thi
veflels employed on the occasion feldorc
make that distance inLfsthan three months
A light boat, well manned, however, migh
go from New-Orleans to the Miffouris it
fix weeks : and from Kentuckey, on th<
Ohio, in less than three weeks ; whereas
on their return, the fame distance is madi
in a few days ; that the country bordering
on those rivers is extremely fertile ; thai
in very severe winters they are fubjett tc
froft, which is generally of short duration
that every article for the use of man grow:
almost spontaneously ; that large number:
of buffaloes are taken, the hides and tal
low of those animals, as well as deer /kins,
beaver, &c. are carried down the Miflifipp!
to New-Orleans, from whence they are ex
ported to different parts of Europe ; that
all forts of timber and naval llores are tc
be had in abundance ; that during the late
war, had the ministers, or the public fer
vants of the crown of this country, had it:
real interest at heart, they would, in pre
ference of the business of St. Euftatis hav<
taken poffefiion of New-Orleans, the key
of tlie Miffifippi, and by that meafuie have
opened the navigation of that river, whicli
in the hands of the entcrprifing and mer
cantile genius of the Britiih nation, would
be opening a mine of wealth which would
have lillea the channels of commerce ofthis
country.
It would also have tended to another
grand object, it would have afforded i n
alylum to the American Loyalilli (with
whom we have evercifferedin political opi
nion) were they inclined really to relieve
them, inltead ot fending them to the bar
ren rocks of Nova Scotia, where they tine
it difficult to raise a common sized cabbage,
and where it is deemed a wonder to fee c
field of 12 acres abound with grass fix
inches long ; in this it will be a pleafurt
to me to be controverted.
The Revolution in France certainly
comes recommended to us unuerone efpe£l
which renders it at fiill view extremely in
viting : it is the work of argument a;u ra
tional conviflion, and not of the lword
The ultima ratio regum had nothing to dt
with it. It was ar. operation defigned.foi
the benefit of the people, it originated in
:he people, and was conducted by the peo
It had therefore a legitimate origin;
& this circumilance entitles it to our feriouc
contemplation, on two accounts : becaulc
ihere is something venerable in the idea,
jnd because other nations in limilar cir
jumltances, w.ll certainly be disposed tc
imitate it.
S_ Whatever reason may be given for tlx
fatit, all those who have been witnefles o
,vhit are called mobs in France (..uringthi
revolution) will join in opinion, that the)
were by no means to be compared witl
English mobs, in point of indifcriminatt
ferocity and private plunder. A populai
:om motion in Paris v as uniformly diredet!
;o a certain well explained objeit; from
which -it never was kuown to deviate
Whether this objedl were to hang a man.
:o arrest the king, to intimidate the court,
ar to break the furniture of a hotel, all o
ther persons and all other property, that
Fell in the way of the mob, were perfedtly
Lfe.
The truth is, those collections were
composed of honed and induitrious people,
who had nothing in view but the public
Ejood They b lieved that the cauf- ol
their country required an execution ofju
flice more prompt than could be cxpedted
from any eltabliihed tribunal. Besides, the)
were in the criiis of a revolution, when they
were sensible, that rhe crimes of their ene
mies would remain unpuniflied, for want oi
a known rule by which they cou'd bt
judged. Though a violation oi ighl, is nol
always a violation of taw ; yet, in theii
opinion, occasions might exill, when il
would be dangerous to let it pass with im
punity.
It is indeed to be hoped, that, whene
ver mobs in other countries fliall be ani
mated by the fame cause, they will con
duct themselves with the fame dignity :
and this lingular phenomenon will be founc
not altogether attributable to nations
character.
The Austrian and Prussian troops, ac
cording to good information, will not b(
ab'.e to commence their ofTeniive operation!
according to the plan concerted,before the
middle of July. This delay is occalioned
by the precautions judged necessary with
regard to the regiments who have been foi
any length of time cantoncJ in the Low
Countries, and who are to be removed into
the interior parts of the Austrian domini
ons, and replaced by Hungarians and
Croats.
'1 he Empress of Russia has contributed
largely to the expences of the war ; tht
court of Vienna has no complaint to makt
upon this head. It is probable, however,
that Catharine the second has turned hei
eyes to Poland, and that looking to an
other partition, she may not behold with
out pleasure the armies ot Austria and
Prussia exhausted and thinned by a war,
in which her finances can alone be affected,
and from the success of which Pne will im
mediately derive as much profit, security,
anil glory as the molt active of the allies.
The ele£tor of Bavaria has repeated to
M. D'Afiiny, Minifler Plenipotentiary oJ
France to that court, in the most pofitivc
terms, his invariable resolution to preserve
the fyftcm of perfedt neutrality.
Five more of the conspirators again!!
the late King of Sweden have received
judgment, viz. Horn and Ribbing arc
to have their right hands cut off, and
to be beheaded. Hartmansdorff, Lil
jehorn, and Von Engerflrom, to be be
headed. Major-general Pechlen, who is
generally imagined to* be tlie foul of*the
plot, has taken liis measures with io much
caution, that the counsel for the proLcu
tion has not hitheito been able to adduce
legal evidence againil him fufficietit to con
vi£t him. He is seventy five old,
during the grearell part of which trme he
has been concerncd in every scheme of re
volution, of which the Swedish hvftory
produces so many instances.
The French have Rationed between
Beachy Head and Dunkirk two frigates
and an ajmed brigantine, intended to in
tercept fume Imperial East Indiamen now
on the of failing fiom Oftend These
vefTels captured 011 Wednesday morning, a
dogger, bearingt Dutch colours, and said
to be equippea by the Dutch Eatl-
India company at Middleburgh. The of
ficers and crew were, however, chiefly
Flemilli ; the lading was found to have
come fiom Offend : and the captain of the
little French squadron, fufpefting impo
sition, sent one of his frigates with the vef
fel into Dunkirk, where they are now ar
rived. The name cf the dogger is tlu
Triton, Conraed Cornelifs, master.
On Thursday lafl palled through Bir
mingham, on her way to London, to take
(hipping for Botany Bay, Mary Haddock
1:1 active late, only 16 years old, who wa:
capitally convicted at the last Stafford aflize:
ior horse-stealing, under the name of Jame:
Barrow, which sentence is mitigated to ;
seven years transportation. During hei
wearing a male attire, previous to her trial,
she behaved with the ftriiSeft propriety, ant
there was not the least suspicion of her sex.
The two constables who apprehended her,
vaunted nota little of th.'ir prowess infecur
fagjo flout and dangerous afellow.
For the National Gazette.
Mr. I rencau,
THE enemies of genuine republicanism
whole fentimeuts and conduit but little
entitle them to the honorable name of ci
tizens, are constantly buzzing in our ears
the prodigious advantages we have gainec
by being emancipated from the tyranny o:
the British government; and yet these met
hive ever since the confutation of the
Hates been ufmg every effort to introduce
a.i excise, stamps, and the most oppreflive
parts of that government ; by which means
they hope and expect to cheat the people of
their rights as men, and to throw the whole
weight and power of the government oi
the United States into the hands of the
few. Ihe friends ol" the people in Eng
land. in their address W the nation, of April
last, declared that " the instruments oi
power are not so open and avowed as they
formerly were, and therefore the less liable
to jealous and invidious reflections ; but
they are not the weaker upon that account.
111 short, our national debt and taxes'have
in their natural consequences thrown fuel:
a weight of power into the executive scale
of government, as we cannot think was in
tended by our patriot ancestors who glo
riously struggled for the abolition of the
then formidable parts of the prerogative
and by an unaccountable want of forefigh:
eltablilhed this system in the r stead."
Previously to the American revolution,
we had to contend against the open ani,
avowed despotism of the Britifli cabinet.
Since the establishment of the general go
vernment, the fame ruinous system of Bri
tifii politics, alluded to in the above quota
tion, has been introduced amongst us, and
which, if neglefled by the independent
freemen of America till such time as the
machinations of deep design have effected
the scheme of eflablifhing a mercenary ar
my and a full system of corruption, the peo
ple will and mull re-assume their liberties
by a second revolution. CATO.
FOl the National Gazette.
EXCISE
OBSERVING the notifications of the
Excise Officers stuck up in every quarter of
the United States, puts me in mind of the
conduct of a negro in one of the Well-In
dia islands. His master, a mere tyrant,
could not get a white man fufficiently-fevere
for an overseer ; and knowing that too fre
quently a man is morose and cruel to his
fellow-creatures, in proportion to the low
nefs of /lis origin, determined lv;n to make a
negro Cuffee his overseer ; the poor fellow
not being able to change his colour, by
which he might be diftinguiflied from the
herd offlaves, and having no coat to the but
ton-hole of which lie could fnfpencl an eagle,
a cross, or some other token of his exalted
station and superior blood,he bethought lihn
felf and placed over the door of his cabbin
the following notification. Dis be de house
afOherJeer Cuffee ; no vile negro eat any ting on
de plantation, wulout Oberfeer give leave !
The yeomanry of the United States are
reduced to the lituation of slaves un Weft-
India ellates, constituting nine tenths of
the inhabitants, as they flare not make life
oftheirown industry without being fubjefl
to heavy penalties upon the information of
a pimping exciseman, placed in every quar
ter of the country to watch the private ac
tions of the free citizens- O tempora, O
mores !
Philad, Aug. 15. H- B.
PHILADELPHIA.
August 18, 1792.
It is curious enough to observe in what
different points of view the most celebrated
characters have been reprelented at differ
ent times and by different defcribers.—Ot
this we have a ftrikinginftance in the la~e
Lord Chatham, father to the present Prime
Milliner of Great-Britain, whose abilities
and merit have been drawn by the able
pens of Lord Chefterfield and Mr. Burke.
The former tells us, that " the private life
of tfiis great man, was stained by no vices,
nor sullied by any meanness.— All his fenti
men'ts \vere liberal and elevated. His ru
ling paOv'on was an unbounded ambition,
which wi>en supported by great abilities,
and crowns. 1 by great success, make what
the world call. l "a great man." He had
manners and a(J<' re f s > — was 3m , ''vely
and agreeable companion in social life ; and
had fiich a verfatiiu y of wit, that he could
it to all forts of com crfation. rie
me young into Parliament, a»(l upoO that
great theatre soon equaled the oldest anJ
the ablest aflors. His eioquencS was of
every kind, and he excelled in the arguirisn
tative a.i well as declamatory way. 111 that
alfembly, where the public good is so much
talked of, and private interest lingly pur
fned, he set out vvitli acting the patriot ;
and performed that part so nobly, that lie
was adopti d by the public as their chief,
and only unAtfpeCted champion."
Let us now heaj the words of Mr. Burke
—" For a wit'c man, (fays he) hefeemedto
be governed too much by general maxims,
which led him into measures greatly mis
chievous to himfelf, and perhaps fatal to
his coiTntry : i;.ieafures, the effects of which
are perhaps forever incurable. He made
an adminillration so chequered and speck
led ; he put together a picce of joinery so
crossly inden ted and whiinfically dovetail
ed ; a cabinet so variously inl-aid; fr.ch a
piece of diverlified mosaic ; fuc'.i a tefula
ted pavement without cement : here a bit
of black ftone.ar.d there a bit of white : pa
triots and courtier's ; king's friendf and re
publicans ; wlrgs and tories; treacherous
friends ana' open enemies ; that it was in
deed a very curious fiiow, but utterly unfafe
to touch, and unfecure to stand on.
It so happened that person had a single
office divide d between them, who had ne
ver spoken to each other in their Hves ; un
til they found themselves, they knew not
how, pigging together, heads and points, in
the fame \".ruck.le-bed. When he had exe
cuted his plan, he had not an inch of ground
to stand on : — when he had accompliflied
his scheme of administration, lie was no
longer amin.'fter. —When his face was hid
but for a moi;, °nt, his whole system was oil
a wide sea, will, out a chart or compass ; —
and his particul;:.' friends, deprived of his
guiding influence, were whirled about, the
sport of every guff, and eaiily driven into
any port."
However opj]o!ite Jhefe representations
may be, we find in each fufficient to indicate
an extraordinary character; —but we like
wise discover how impoflible it is to please
all men ; when even the greatest abilities
will not always enfnre applause; or the
greatest virtue, approbation."
\_BcifaJl Paper. J
ItEVIEW of POLITICS.
The eastern hemisphere, while we are
quietly enjoying the blessings of peace and
good government, presents to the specula
tive a busy and intereftiligfeene.
A general conflict between Liberty and
Defpotifm,cannot but draw the attention,&
interest the feelings of freemen. When we
fee the lons of freedom in France and Po
land boldly averting their rights, we are re
minded or what we were, and our wiflies
are with them.
The combination of Defpo.ts against
France and her Conftitut'on, appeared at
its onset more formidable than it now is.
Prussia had taken a decisive part against
her ; but now is withdrawing her forces,
and turning her attention to the hoitile
motions of RufTia against Poland.
Jt is the most generally received opinion,
that Russia would have joined in the cause
o» Princes against France, but for her in
tentions on Poland. And her views against
this regenerated kingdom were pot difclo
led until Pruflia began to engage in the con
flict against France.
Pruilia, however, jealous of Ruflia's in
tentions, appears desirous of preventing
her aggrandizement ; or, perhaps, wishes
to afl'ert her claim to part of the territory of
Poland,fliould the ruin of that monarchical
republic be effected.
Be their intentions what they may, the
Poles have tasted of the fountain of liberty
---the invigorating draught will give them
courage, and the justice of their c a life
strength to repel,itis, hoped,their oppreflors.
Ihe manifefto of Catharine against the
renovated empire, is marked with tyranny
inevery line—-{lightly veiled by an appear
ance of candour, founded on pretences
jcarcely plaulible in a despot's eye, cover
ing motives of the bal'eft kind ; perhaps,
upon the whole, forming the darkest trait
in this woman's character, and it is to be
hoped the last attempt of her bouadlefs am
bition.Poland has-been 6f late active in prep3~
r.ng foi defence ; but is in point of strength
unequal to the contest. She has all to how
from the interference of Prullia, which rho
intniically inclined, yet may, by oppolino
the views of Russia, produce a timely re
llef 5 and also from the death of the Em -
prel's, which would undoubtedly be the
cause of great changes in her empire.
Aulfria with her whole force prefles on
France, who with the energy of freedom
will resist the blow, and it fortunate enough
lo make an impreflion upon the Austrian
;.\rms or territory, will carry, not death and
dc'fti uftion, but liberty and prosperity to the
c en'tre of the tyrant's dominions.
Since the beginning of the French revo
lution, the nation has (hewn marks of un
exampled patriotism and an ardent love of
liberty ; they begin to be distinguished for
order a "ad fyitem, which united to the firft
will produce energy.
1 he pr ogress of La Fayette into the Au
strian territory and his success against Na
mur Mons, and Charleroy are much doubt
ed these a,'-counts want confirmation;
but the glorious retreat of Gouvion is a
proof ol the discipline and courage of the
troops under tli.it general.
The experience Luckncr acquired under
one of the firft generals this age has pro
duced, gives us all to hope from his exer
tions in the camp and in the field.
Upon the whole, though the Austrian
f.roops may boast of superior discipline ;
yet this is their only advantage. The lols
ot* soldiers with tuem will be irreparable ;
buC doei a French citizen fall in the ranks,
two will step forward to fill his place.
Pecuniary resources with the French will
be found inexhaustible. Compare the cof
fers (if adefpot, filled by the collettion of
execrated taxes, with the sums daily pour
ed on the altar of liberty, by the hand of
patriot ism, and the contributions collected
from a people who themselves.ix their pro
portion,
Spain will probably take no fide in the
contest. England has declared he neutra
lity ; Sard.ilia may aflilt with her good .vill,
her means in men and money are not
g'leat.
_h spirit of reformation has gone abroad— '
Englishmen call for a more equal reprefen
tatioti' in the popular branch of their legis
lature, but wealth seems to outweigh num
bers.
Irifhme.') complain, and the Weft-India
colonies pretend that it is absurd to be go
verned by laws made three thousand miles
from them, by men they don't know, and
con ceit they have a rigiit to fell the produce
of tlAeir indnftry to whom they please, and I
at the" highest prices they can get.
They' begin to entertain an opinion that
it is hard to itarve when plenty is at their
door. It/ short they u t the part of undu
tifi.U children, dislike the commands of their
mother country, and are ungrateful and
unnatural enough to prefer their prosperi
ty to that of their common parent. Call
ing an eye to the happiness enjoyed by their
elder brothers thov appear desirous of be
ing conl. dered as of age,and wish to be per
mitted til fhift for themselves.
Extra6loj r a letter from Bermuda, July 25.
" About three weeks fini e a very distress
ing accident took place on the reef at the
south-west point of thefr islands. A large
brig of near four hundred tons burthen,
bound from the Weft-Indies to Marseilles,
in France, fuppofi/ig themselves near two
days fail to the wefhvard, and fleering due
east. rail foul of the reef in the night. Un
tunately for a number of the ptilfengers,
these rocks rife like steeples, almost per
pendicular out of the ocean, and afford a
vefTel no chance after (lie once strikes. The
brig, however, which ran 011 one of them
about midn ght, lodged herfelffor above an
hour on one of the ledges, after which (he
backed off, and went instantly down in blue
ocean water. Want of prelence of mind
to quit her in due time, and the dreadful
suction file inufth ive made, ingoing down,
was the cause o' several peoples loling their
lives. The following persons periflied : —
the captain, the second mate, two feainen,
two French ladies with each a young child
at the breast, a paflenger and his negro, in
all ten fouls. About twenty, or better, got
fafe to the main land in the long-boat, with
nothing but shirt and trowfers. Talk has
been in time part of ei-efting a large light
house 011 some part of these islands, and on
•in eminence, to prevent fucli diftrefling ac
cidents. lam convinced, however, it will
always be mere talk, if the commercial na
tions do not unite in a fund for the purpose,
it being a matter that concerns their general
advantage, more than ours particularly, as
the Bermuda vell'els rarely carry fail in the
night, when within two or three degrees
of the island by their longitude reckoning.
These iflai ds fair wiih many a grove are crovn'd,
With cedars tall, gay hills, and lovely vales ;
Bnt fatal rocks oneveiyfide are found,
Fatal to biui, that, unfufpe&ing, fails.
When verging 011 the height of thirty-two,
And cad or weft you guide the daring prow,
Theu fear by night the dangers of this fliorc,
Nature's wild garden.placed in Jixty-Jour—
Here many a pilot Ins lash couile bemoans,
» ad many a lofty {hip has laid hci bones."
By several late arrivals from the Englifl
windward islands we have learnt, tha
there is the greatest uiieafinefs between tilt
merchants and planters of those islands
i efpeCting the regulations which have lateh
taken place in England on sugars. Ade-
I'utation from ail the windward and lee
ward islands were to meet on the 24th ol
July, at Dominica for the purpose of takin -
juto cunfideration the above as well as the
jfave-trade bufiiiefs, and to petition par
lamenton the fnbjtfCt. In St. Kitts they
liad already come to a determination nol
to pay the king's duty of 4 1-3 per cent,
on rum, in consequence of which aCtion
are entered into against the defaulters.—
In Jamaica, it is said, this four and an half
per cent, duty is the occasion of clamour
equrlly violent against government.
T he commotions in Martinico have en
tirely fublided, since the arrival of the Af
lembly's decree in favour of the Mulat
toes. The difcontentedbanditti, who were
friends to neither whites, mulattoes, or
negroes, are said to have fled from the
islands, to the number of near a thousand.
1 he subsequent resolutions have been a
grced to by the council and allembly of tht
iflaod of St. Vincents:
" First, They feel it particularly incum
bent upon fhem, in the prel'ent critical state
of affairs, to iniift upon their right to in
ternal legislation in all matters relating tc
the internal government of the colony.
" Secondly, They conlkler these islands
intitled to a full recompence from Great-
Britain for whatever lolles they may filftair
in tonfequence of either a gradual or total
abolition of the slave trade.
" Thirdly, They feel themselves at all
times entitled to effectual protection iron
the mother country, and they conceive ii
essentially neceffary,that the protection now
alloi ded to them Should be encreafed, inaf
niuch as the internal security of the colo
nies are greatly endangered by the questions
agitated in the parliament of Great-Bri
tain.
• I' Fourthl y> They consider themselves
juftihed in expressing, in the molt unequi
vocal terms, their altonifhment and indig
nation at the unconstitutional and oppref
live measures adopted by the British parlia
ment, for reducing the price of British su
gars at the British market, far below the
yrice the sugars of the foreign islands are
likciy to obtain at all the other Kuropean
markets : and for the further purposes of
clogging and reltriCting a trade, hitherto
iupported and encouraged by repeated aCts
of" parliamtnt."
[From George-Town (Potowmack) Aug. 3.
On Saturday the 4th instant the Corner-
Stor.e, on the western butment of the Fe
deral-Bridge (being the second corner (tone
of the fame) was laid in due form, by Uri
ah Foreit, hfq. Mayor of this town, in pre
lence ot the aldermen, the recorder, and
common councilmen, attended by a nume
rous concourse of respeCtable inhabitants of
this place, who aflembled on this occasion.
After the ceremony was over, the company
returned to Mr. Suter's Fountain-Inn,
where a handsome entertainment was gi
ven by the Mayor to the workmen and
others, concerned in ereaing the bridge.
A correspondent observes, that it mufl
afford a general Satisfaction to every well
wilher of the profperityof the city of Wash
ington, to be afl'ured that the public works,
now carrying on in this place, are condufled
with spirit & enterprise,Sc at the fame time,
with that due regard to economy, which is
So absolutely necessary in all extensive pub
lic undertakings, where a country is but in
its infancy. The Federal-Bridge, which
will exceed, when finifhed, for strength
and elegance, any thing of the kind here
tofore attempted in this country, will
be completed in a few weeks—and it is
confidently expected, that against the day
in October next, which is advertised for the
sale of Lots in the city, the Superintendant
of the Prelident's houle will have all matters
in readiness. for laying the corner-stone of
the fame (the Third in the Federal City)
which will afford the gentlemen concerned
in the fnperintendence of the Federal
Buildings,and those who arethe Proprietors
of lands-ill ti'je city, an opportunity of dis
playing their in the brilliancy of a
third ProcefEon, a."jd of exhibiting their li
berality,'in an entertainment suitable to the
occafion---which may be a further induce
ment to Purchasers ; and thereby benefit
themselves as well as contribute to the ho
nour and future pro(perity of the City of
W afliington.
Lately died in Charleston, South-Caroli
na, Col. Robkrt Heriot, a gentle
man of resectable connections and charac
ter in that Hate. He has left behind him a
large, and amiable family, to whom his loss
is irreparable. Col. Heriot had been
dining with several gentlemen at George
lown, (S.C.) and upon some disturbance
happening in the fltrcet, they stepped out,
to the number of sixteen or Seventeen, up
on a projecting gallery of a second ftorv,
Which being rotten, unfortunately gave way
and brought them all to the ground, not
one of<hem escaping broken bones, or se
vere bruises. Col. Heriot had one of
his legs broke, and the foot of the other leg
badly cut, which mortified in a few days
and carried him off.
About four weeks since, the famous In
dian partisan known by the name of Capt.
Bluejacket, was at Detroit, with about two
thousand men, waiting for the American
troops to come out into the woods, ii
was believed at Montreal, that in cafe the
Americans do not go out, the Indians Will
be divided into fmail parties to harrafs the
frontiers.
Comparing several circumdances, there
teems to be no solid foundation for the va
rious rumours we have had of several at
tempts of the French kiug to escape frou
his capital.
A weftsrn paper informs that five hun
rlreel warriors of the Cherokee nation, witl
:iieir squaws, horses, &c. had gone int(
Kentuckey and joined the white inhabit
nits, with an intention of taking apart ii
:he ensuing campaign.
John Brown, and John Edwards
Sfquires, are chofeii to represent the ftat<
jf Kentuckey in the Senate of the Unitet
states.
The propofeJ canal between the Dela
ivare and the Schuylkill is ordered to b>
faked out, and ihe work commenced with
>uc delay. The water is to be taken fron
:he Schuylkill at tiie mouth of Stoney
Jreek, to lead from thence to tiienortheri
bounds of this city. The fall, when ii
eaches the Delaware, will be about fiftj
"eet.
On the second instant, the Methodifb aflb
nation at Lynn, in Maflachufetts, confiftinj
if eight ministers, began their conference
\ favourable account was given in by tin
(hop, of the increase of the church mem
3ers of that society in the southern (late;
ind western territory ; but the account he
;ave of a real work of grace among tile
leople of those parts, was more pleating
:han all betid-s. They continued tranfait
ng bufmefs till the Monday following, ir
A hich time were preached eight ferinons.
This is their firft conference in the Hate oi
Vlaflachufetts.
T.xtraß. of a letter from Georgia, Aufiujl ;.
*' Reports are p. evailing here that Col.
Pew hasdeclined the nexteleifion, a;mem
)er for the Senate of the United States,
md that Gen. Jackson would probably fuc
ked him."
On Monday, the 6th of this instant,
;he supreme court of the United States
net, when all the judges were present.
The attorney-general of the United States
rave notice, that he should move the Court
jn Wednesday foliowim , for a mandamus
:o the circuit-court of Pennsylvania, com
Handing them to proceed on the petition oi
William Hogburne. a claimant of a pen
ion, in which they had rel'ufed to proceed,
from a supposed nullity of the penlion-law.
The motion was accordingly begun on
Wednesday ; when after some prefatory
remarks, the attorney-general was alked
from the bench whether he conceived it to
be an official right to otfer such a motion,
as he had intimated it to be. He anfvvered,
that he did conceive it to be an official
right. Upon which several observations
were made, and the debate continued from
day to day until Saturday lalt. The opi
nions of the judges being then taken, they
were equally divided.
In consequence of this division, it was
improper for the attorney-general to move
the fubjeft officially. He then appeared as
counsel for the invalids ; and the motion,
after being accompanied with the reasons,
which inftuened him to believe that the
inferior court had erred, was poltponed for
a final decision until the next court.
The important queltion "whether a
(late can be sued," is alio set for the firft
day of the next term.
Letters from France mention, that great
numbers of patriotic ntw-married Indies
have waited on the National Aflembly, and
took a formal oath to be true to the nation
and '.faithful to their hulbands while absent
on the frontiers in defence of their coun
try. They have alio, according to their
ability, presented pecuniary offerings for
carrying on the war. —The alfembly's hall
re-echoed with applauses.
On the ?th instant, arrived at Carlisle be
tween two and three hundred troops, un
der the command of Capt. Mills, on then
way to the weft ward.
Samu-l Stcrrett, Efauire, representative in
Congrel's, has manifefted his wishes not to
be re-elefled. Col. Samuel Smith, has offered
himfelf a candidate in his stead.
The beginning of the present month, 14
Indian warriors, belonging to the Catawba
nation, arrived at Richmond. It isfaid the
design of their visit is to offer their services
to the United States in the warfare against
the hostile tribes.
A ship is arrived at Charleston, South-
Carolina, from Ireland, with upwards of
three hundred and fifty settlers from that
country.
Lord Howe is appointed Vice-Admiral of
England, in the room of Lord Rodney, de
ceased.
A decrce has been reported in the Na
tional Aflembly of France, authorizing the
executive power to treat with the United
States of America, for provilions to the
nmount of four millions of livres, to be de
livered at St. Domingo.
On Thursday morning the corple of a
female, said to have been murdered, wa*
found in one of the docks near Kenfino--
ton< The coroners inquest and several
perfoiis of refpeclability of both sexes have
viewed the body, and given their opinion,
that violent attempts of the most atrocious
nature had been made oil the young wo
man, and that Ihe had at length been mur
dered and thrown into the mud. Some
circumlbances have led to adifcovery of the
perpetrators of this horrid crime, and we
are glad tu inform our readers, that before
this account appears in print, it is more
than probable, the villain or villains are
secured.
To the FreEmen of the United States, and
particularly to the Citizens of Pennjylva
nia%
IT is one of the grand principles in the
republican creed, That every citizen has the
inestimable right to publifli his sentiments
without reserve, on any political, religious,
or speculative fubjeft, regardless of the place
of his birth or present situation ; he has an
individual right as a citizen of the United
States, to investigate the local policy of any
[late, as it is a link in the grand chain of the
Union ; he has also an inherent privilege
to impeach the refractory disposition that
may appear in the inhabitants of any ltate,
md particularly thofeof Pennsylvania, who
llile themselves " the well born This
unbounded thirst for power and diftinaion,
Simulates them on to urcomplifli their de
igns through the medium of a political fi
lelle. All tiiofe who are uninfluenced by
the poison of party or prejudice, that will
look difpallionately through the rif ht end
jf the republican perfpeftive, may difrover
to an exartnefs, the baseness of their in
trigues, and that their ultimate design is to
)ring about a revihon of the federal con.
titution, & thereby, in an eminent degree,
;ain tiiat ascendency which they have been
timing at.
The present quefiion which so much agi
tates the mind . of the citizens of Pennl'vl
/ania, refpecling the mode of appointing
:andidates for the federal representation,
s, I conceive, an important one,---one that
■very free mind ought to feel interestd in.
Whether the mode by conferees, or that
jy committee of correspondence, be adopt
ed, matters not, for their principles art, I
tonce.ve, the fame; both poisonous to an
;quable and fair representation : There is
11 the firft place only a partial transfer of
the liberty of their fuffrages, from the ag
gregate mass of electors, to the delegated
:ew,fti . d conferees or committee ofcorref
jondence, who conferring with similar bo
.l.es through the state, agree on thirteen
jerfons ; in this cafe the minority indircft
y get the power into their own hand, by'
jeing united in opinion, and gaining time of
the majority, for the day of election haflen
ng, prevents the majority who would wish
o think lor themselves, of fixing upon a
.icket, therefore dividing their intenellt
throws the balance of power into the hands
t>f the designing few.
Secondly. JThis method is obje&ionable
jpon anotlier principle ; that is, eonfin
ng the number nominated, to thirteen, if
.hey were to limit it at four times that
number, this part of the method would not
t>e be so inimical to the rights of the people,
therefore the propriety of Mr. Mirabcau's
plan, a writer in the National Gazette, mult
obvious to every good man.
1 here are certain charaflers rather of a
doubtful gender, who are notorious for
-heir want, both of private and public vir.
■ue ; many of whom being hatched into ex
lience here by their sycophantic address,
tome forward with all the confidence of a
true patriot who has lent his aid in the
time of difficulty to eflablifh the standard
jt Liberty, and endeavor to inflame the minds
>- the people, with their declamatory and
Tph.flical arguments, composed of meta
phors not fufheiently gilded to conceal witii
n the poison with which they themselves
ire tinctured. • Have a care ye Votaries
if Liberty, left these incendiaries, these poli
tical plagues, Ihould, under the cloak of
tMtrioril'm, tiirufl the poigliard to the vitals
t>f the federal constitution, and fapthe foun
dation of the corner-stone upon which our
political liappinefs rests.
A PLEBEIAN.
Aug. 16.
Mr. FrEnEau,
A small mistake wa? made in the ticket
which I offered you for publication • By
re-publifliing it as follows, you will confer
a favour on MIRABIi.AU.
William Findley,
Frederick A. Muhlenberg,
Thomas Fitzlimons,
Daniel Heifter,
William Bingham,
William M'Clay,
William Irvine, of Cumberland,
Thomas Hartley,
Peter Muhlenberg,
Jame- Rofs, ot Wellington,
John W. Kittera,
Thomas Scott,
John Arndt, Jun.
The different printers will be so obliging
as to make the above correction.
*»• The Piece signed JANUS, came t<>
hand too late for thisdays> publication,would be a oefirable thing for the public t°
be mformeo,on the general frnfe ol the people o 1
the ltate of New- Vork relative to their late Elec
tion of Governor : The following resolves, pafTec
ou the 4th ii.ftant at a meeting as the freehold
ers of the town of in the Manor oi
will afford an idea of the opinions pre
valent in that part.]
THIS meeting, taking into serious confidera
tJon the violent ineafures purluing by a cer
tain party in this Hate, to obtain red re Is of a lup
pufvd grievance, do unanimoully adopt the fol
ic wing resolves, viz.
Rel !ved, 'i hat,-by the conflitution of this
{lite, the legislature have a to pielcribe th<
mode ot condudiing and determining elections foi
Govei nor, Lieutenant Guvern«r v i nd Senators;
and that a majority of the late canvafling com
mittee were conflitutionally empowered ultimate
ly to determine upon tha votes taken at the lat<
eieflion for said officers, and that their decilior
is conclusively bending upon the good people 01
this Hate.
Resolved, That there is no reason whatever t(
fufped the majority of said committee of corrup
tion or partiality in rejecting the votes of Otjego
Clinton, or Tioga, but that, considering the pub
lie Continence ciiey have I'o long enjoyed j the lo-
Icmn ties under which thev aCted, and the caution
a.id delil>. ration with which they proceeded, then
is pood ground to believe, and ic is the unanimoui
opinion ot this meeting, that they decided upon
those votes conlcientroully, and agreeably to the
belief their judgment, and tha: the realons, af
h/.ned by them for such ejection, arc I'ufficient tc
iarisfy every col lide ale and candid person, thai
the* queltion was neither hastily, partially, or cur
rupllv deti rmined.
Rciolved, That we think it an incumbent du
lv on every good citizen to support his Excellency
George Clinton, r.<as Governor, and the Hon
orable Pierre Van Coctlandt as Lieutenant Gov
ernor of this ltate, fur the three years 3
they having been, by a majority of the late can-
Yaffing committee, conftitutionall,, and in due
form of law, declared to be lelpectively chosen to
laid orfices.
Resolved, Thar, in our opinion, there was less
caule for rejecting the votes of Cornwall and Caf
tleton, than thole of Oifcgo, Clinton, or Tioga,
but that, the canvaftcrs having a right to reject
them, and having, no doubt, adted conscientiously
in so doing, it is the duty ol the citizens of this
state to acquicfce in their decSfion j and that, in
our opinion, there was less danger in purluing the
strict letter of the law, than m allowing them
selves any latitude in the conltru&ion of it.
Resolved t That, the canvafl'ers having unani
moully rejcCled eight towns for omilliun Merely
formal, it appears, that they thought themfeives
bouno to adhere to the strict letter of the electi
on law, and that, therefore, they could not, with
out manifeft partiality, and deviating irom prin
ciples unanimoully eflabliihed, agree to count the
votes of OtfcgOf Clinton, and Tioga : We there
fore, consider, that the conduct of the minority,
who voted for estimating tae ballots of those coun
ties, justly subjeCts them to the suspicion of parti
ality, in as much as this very minority had picvi
oufly determined, for very trifling informalities,
'to rfjett the votes of several towns, where there
was no room to fufpe& fraud or unfairnefs*
Revived, That the protelt of the minority is
evidently partial, in excepting to the ele&ion ot
John Livingfton, as a Senator for the eastern dif
trJ<St, and uot excepting to that of John Frey, as
a lenator for the wellern distriCt : The realons
aliigncd by them equally ilrong in both
cajes.
Relolvedj That, the law having prescribed a
puni/hment for corrupt or partial conduit in the
canvalfers, there is no necellity of applying to the
legifialUiC ior redrcls on the present occasion i
and it is our unanimous opinion, that no opposi
tion can be made to the decision of the canvalTers,
or any attempe to reverie the fame, without dan
ger of lubveriing the government j that such op
position is unprecedented, although former can
vafl'ers have, in fume instances, destroyed those
votes that were rejected on the late tanvals .• That
such opposition produces a want of confidence in
government, and, if countenanced by rcfpedable
characters, may terminate in rdiftance to the de
crees of the iupremc federal court, anJ other ju
dicial tribunals.
.And whereas it has been aflerted in public
prints and private convention, that rbe inhabi
tants of tiiis town were, at the late eledlion,under
improper influence, and thac the infpe&ors per
mitted pertum 10 vote who were not qualifi d :
Relolved, That thole alfcrttons are not founded
in fait, and thac the fabricators of them meet
the indignation of every luver of truth ; that there
are noc ltf> than four hundred eic&urs in this
town qualified to vote for Governor, Lieutenant
Governor and Senators, and that the inlpeftors of
the late ele&ion held in town, faithfully dis
charged their duty as such.
Relolved, Tint we will lend ev-ry aid in our
power to cur fellow citizens in other parts of this
state, to preserve the peace and tranquility of the
community, and to maintain inviolate the govern
ment and laws thereof.
By order of the Meeting
Wm. ROCKEFELLER, Chairmau
-- I »im fSKSarZ-X"F£BKarsm,% I I
From the VIRGINIA GAZETTE.
I THINK ic my duty to inform the community
that early in the ensuing feflion of Atl'embly,
1 mall make a motion to recommend to the citi
zens ol tui» commonwealth, that a convention be
called, for the purposes of eftablilhing a system of
government more congenial ro repuolican princi
ples than that by which we are now governed;
Among many objects which ought to be con
templated, this mealure is principally dictated b>
the opinion, that equality and liberality of repre
fenutinn, are the fundamental pillars of liberty—
that the right to be represented, is the natural
and unalienable privilege of every citizen who du
ly contributes to the support of government—and
chat the conlt'CtttiOn of this ltate, if we have one
at all, is very repugnant to both.
Two objections will be advanced—firft, the ex
pencu ol Ure convention—>fecondiy, the danger 01 j
relaxing the finffws of government .• To w'ni'ii 1
obierve, that the expcnce wili bear no comparison
to the inestimable advantages of a tree aad equal
ly represented government j and that no man of
common nnderftanding, or knowledge of the tem
pers and wiflies of our citizens, can be seriously ap
prehensive, that they from whom the goverum»n<
springs, by whom it is supported, and to whom it
belongs, will, in the neceffaty exercise of the na
tural and imprescriptible privileges, seditiously at
tempt to do any thing, the evil of which wili ulti
mately devolve on themselves.
No government can Jong be free exccpt one by
Reprelentation, and every step which a govern
ment falls fliort of equality, it recedes from liber
ty. Neither this, nor the prefenC inequality ot
representation, can be denied.
It will be said, that the necessity of this change,
does not now exilt, because have under
their controul, all the great objedts of leg'flatim.
l o this it may be answered, that Congress have
eltablifhed an excite, ouions even in monarchiea.
countries—-the) have imposed duties too enor
mous for a free people to bear—rhey have esta
blished an army, when there is not the profpedi
of an enemy againll whom the army is to oper
ate—-they have relhidied the free circulation of
newfpa, erf, by a mealuie unprecedented, and ex
tremely obnoxious—and if we are ro conclude, in
future, from the part-, I fear that we lhall be leo
on to experience the favorite ?nd diabolical max
im, that the exigencies of government iiiould be
always equal to her refourcts. If so, and tbi
principle shall be tAe basis of ftederal legillatiun,
we may expedt that armies and navies will in
crease upon us, as fa ft as wc have the ability to
pay their expences—nor will it be material whe
ther we pay £. 10. per annum, by puichaling
turn at 7/6. instead of 4/6. per gallon—naih at
125• inrtead of ioj. per M. or pay the mo.iey di
redtly to the Collector or Lxcifeman.
Taxes throughout the world beget armies—and
armies rc-produce taxes.—Armies, whatever the
pretext for railing them, have either been the di
redi oppreflors, or tools of opprelfive power, in
every age and ciime : And although I do not fear
that the prelent American auny, for many ol
whom I have a high perlonal refpedt, can be thus
used, bectfufe of their own sentiments, I fear foi
future times : I dillike the principle—l difl ke
thecxpente : —I know that a regular army is not
calculated for an Indian war—that wehave not ano
-1 her often five enemy if we seek one—and that one
fourth, or less than a fourth, of the present mili
tary expence, would keep peace with our favagt
neighbours.
Such sentiments, under fucli circumstances, in
duce me to think that we not to delay the
internal regulation ot our government.
HENRY BANKS.
Richmond, August 6, J792.
■.wgara.mi-Mn.Mi 1 ■ ,
Prices Current at Philadelphia.
[Dollars equal to 100 cents.]
ASHES Pot per ton 90 Doh. to 100
Aflies Pearl 13*7 — — 14.0.
Hacon flitches per lb. 7 cents.
Bacon (boulders — 6 do.
Bees wax, per lb. 25 cenrs to 27.
Brandy, Coniac, pergl. 1 dol. 20 c, to 1 d. 33 c*
Brandy, common, 1 dol. 26 c.
ttutter, in kegs, per lb. 9 c. to 10.
Coals, per bu/hel, 20 c. to 22
Coffee, per lb. 18 to 19 c.
Cotton, per lb. 26 c. to 40
Flax, per lb. 11 to 12 c.
FJour, lupei fine, per barrel, 4 Dol. 80 C.
Common, ■ 4 doh. 47 c.
Burr middlings, bed, perbrl. 70
Ivieal Indian 2 dols. 52 c.
K\ e 2 dols. 40 c.
Siiip ftuft", per cwt, So c. to 1 dol.
Gin, Holla , per cult-, 4 doh. 67 c.
Ginseng per ib. 2., c <0 24
Grain, barley, per buihel, 90 c.
—— best /hilled, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per buihel, 40 c.
Indian corn, 44 c. Oats 26 c. pr. bush,
Kvc 54, Wheal 93 to 95 c.
Hams, per lb. 8 c. t» o
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67 c.
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, p er lb. 9c. to 11
Indigo, Carolina, per lb. 60 c. to 1 dol.
Iron, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c*
Naii-rou, per t>.n 96 dols.
Pv7> per ton, 24 dols. to 26 doh. 67 c.
Sheet, per ton, 173 doh 33 c.
Lard, htgs, per lb. 9 c. to 10
Lead, in bus, per cwt. 7 dols.
In pigs, —• — 5 dols. 33 c. to 5 doh. 67 c.
hei.j — 5 doh. 40 c. to 0 dols. 67 c.
Whiie, ——10 doh. to 10 dols, 67 c.
Myrtle wax per lb. iSc.
Molaltes, per gal. 44 c. to 50
Nutmegs, per lb. 7 to 8 dollars
0.1, Lmieed, per gallon, 65 to 67 f,
Pepper, per lb. 37.
Pimento, 16 c.
Porter, London, per dozen, 1 dol. 60 c.
I American, do. 1 d. 4 c. to 1 d. 60 c.
Pitch, per barrel, 1 dol. 73 c. to 2 dols.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 11 doh to II d 33c.
Lower County, do. 10 doh.
Carolina, do. 9 doh.
Rice, per 100 lb. 2 dols. 50 c. to 2 dol. 67 c.
Rutin, per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 d0h.67 c.
Rum, Antigua, per gallon, 1 dol.
Barbadoes, do. do. 87 c.
New-England, &c. 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. j8 c. to id. 22 c.
Windward Island, 93c. to id.
1 Salt, (A'lum) per bushel, 24 to 27 c»
Cadiz, 23 to 24 c.
Lilbon, ————— 25 to 27 c.
Liverpool, ■■ ■ 29 c.
Skins, Deer, in hair, per lb. 20 to 30 c.
Red, ditto, 26 to 33 c.
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
1 Sugar, Havanna, white, per lb. 17 to 18 c.
Brown, per lb. 15 c.
Muscovado, per cwt. 13 d. to 13 d. 33 c.
Lump, per lb. 24 c.
Loaf, single refined, 26 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 c.
Tallow, xefincd, per lb. 9 c.
Tar, New-Jersey, 24 gal. ro the brl. 1 dol.
Carolina, 32 gal. 1 dol. 33 c. to 1 dol. 67 c.
Tea, H>fon, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
H)fon skin, 53 c. to 67
Sou/hong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 30 c. to 33
Tobacco, James River, best. per cwt. 3 dols. 60
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Interior, 2 dols. 67 c. to 3 dols.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 2 dols. 50 c. to 3 dol
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl, 33 c. to 8 d
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, 2 dols. 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dols. 23 c.
Carolina, new, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dols.
Carolina, old, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 d<>l
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. 67 c. to 2 dols.
Wine, Madeira, per pipe, 106 dl. 67 c. to 200 dl.
Lilbon, 120 to 126
TenerifFe, per gal. 63.
Fayal, ■ 52
Port, per pipe, no ]o 124.
Sherry, per gal. qo c. to id. 20c.
FOR SALE,
AIjOUT 100,000 acres of Land, lying near
Whiteftown, in the tfate of New-York, on
he north fide of the Mohawk river, adjoining
Sobleborough, and will be iold either in parcels
>r together, as may suit the purchaser*.
N. B. The above tract of land is of the firft
jOality in the slate, chiefly timbered with beach
ind maple, well watered, and contains many mill
cafs. The peculiar advantages of this tracV, fitu
ited within a few miles of Whiteftown (which
:ontains upwards of five thousand iuhabitants)
vith an easy and convenient water carriage to
>chenedtady, Albany, and New-York, make it an
tbjett for any per funs inclined to iettleit, and ren
ler it an extremely advantageous puichafe for
pirfons inclined to realize their money in land ot
4<j encreafing value. The whole trad or any part
*T it, will be fold very low for calh, or for paic
;a/h, and the remaining payments at distant j-eii
>f!9# Enquire at No. 229 ftreeti near the
; 1,-market.
July 19.
BOOKS,
Printed ar.d fold by
MATHEW CARE Y,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia
-1 Amuican Mulcum, from its (wnmtnccmtnl
n "January 1787, to December 1791, in ten voh.
i•>:, e, neatly bound and letter edj sixteen dollars.
This work, which is now conducted on an im
proved plan, containing the befi pieces publijhcdfor
2nd againf} the proceedings of government, will be
found to contain at Icajl as great a -variety of poli
tical, agricultural, ar.dmijcellaneous essays, as any
ever pub'iifhed in America. Perhaps in no one work
<*reJo many valuable documents rej petting the hifio
ry of this country, eolletted together. His excel-
Uncy the President of the United Statcs y Las de
dared of it, that it a more ufeful literary plan
hi - never been undertaken in Ameiiia, nor one
mre deserving of public encouragement. ** The
fubfeription is two dollars and a half per annum.
Centlenen in the country who wish to be supplied
with this work, are requcfied to give commjjion to
friends in the city t9 JubJcribe for and rcceive it.
2. Ladies' Pockef Library— containing :—Mifs
More s F.fj'ays ; Gregory's Legacy j Lady Pen
nington's advice j Marchioness of Lambcrt\ ad
vice j Swift's letter to a newly married lady ;
Mrs. Chapcne on command of temper j Mores fa
bles for the ladies Price 6/6.
3. Smith's History of New- York, from its fir) 7
fett/ement to the year 1732. To which is annexed,
a dcfcription of the country, with a fijort account
f the inhabitants, their religious and political Jlatc.
and the confihution of the courts of juJJ'ue—Price
2 dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
ie, 1.1.d. profejjor of moral phiiofepby and logic
hi the Marifc hal College, Aberdeen—Price three
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Critical Re
viewers (vol. 69. p. 628) fay : "We have seen
nothing on tbefe fubjefis more plain, more pcrfpicu
!«j, or more genera ly ufeful.''
5. Beauties of Poetry, BritiJJ) ar.d American,
cntainingfeleßproduttior.s cf the mofi eminent Bri
ij'h and American poets. Pr.ce four fifths of a dol.
6 Blair'vS Scrmens, containing the whole of the
bree volumes of the Bntifi edition, in two. Price
'wo dollars.
7. Neckar*s Treatise on the importance nf reli
gious opinions. Price four fifths of a dollar.
Examination of the objervations oj Lord Shef
fwtd's on American Commerce. Price, on very fine
paper, fi-ve eighths of a dollar.
9. 'I be Confutations of the several United States,
with the federal Conjiitution, Cjc. Price five
'.gb'hs of a dollar.
10 M'Fingal, an epic poem, a ncto edition in
12mo. Price three cigrths of a do'lir.
if. American Jett Book, in (wo parts, with
■wo very „cat engravings. Price bound, three
Hfths of a dollar.
12. Garden of tne Srrnl, by Bishop Chalen,r-
I rice, bound plain, ha f a dol'ar, in calf and let
'red three quarters of a dollar, plain 1 -2dol.
1 3. Tie Douay 1 ranjlation of the vulgate Bi
\U, in quarto. Price, eiegantly Oound and lettered,
50/2 —plain, fix dollars.
Said Carey has for sale, a large affirtment oj
bc->,ks, European at 7all as Ameri an editions,
wh.cb he will difpofc of on the mofl reafonakie terms,
country gentlemen, who favor h,m with commands.
m.iy depend upon being J applied in the mofifatisfac
'■■ry manner, si iberal allowance to fucb as pur
. huje quantities for public libraries, or to fell ryain.
6m. la. w.
George Town, June 2, 1792.
ANUMDER of LOTS in every fituatioi
Which may bedefinru in the city of Wa'h
ngtou, will be offered lor sale, by the Com.nif
doners on Monday the Blh day of October next,
One fourth part of the purchase money to be
pa.d down, the rertdue in three c„na! annual pay
mems, w.th yearly ir.fereft on the whole princi
pal unpaid. JOHN M. GANTT
July 25. Clcik to the Comsiiiflbners.
To be pullijheil by Subscription,
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Old Uon/^ej?4 }
From their firft Meeting in September 1774,
to their final dissolution in March 1789,
COMPRISING at full length, every impor
tant resolution, order, address, declaration,,
&c. contained in the thirteen volumes of thevr
journals—a concise summary of the less interrA
'ng parts,—an alphabetical Jilt of appointments,
promotions and relignations—a collective vie.win
the public expenditures, &c. &c the who'e in
tenJed to serve as a fatisfadtory substitute for the
original journals, which are now out of print, and
of which the entire fubllance, un incumoc red with
official formalities and repetitions, will here be
given in about one fourth of their prefju h u lk,
accompanied with one complete general Index: --
To which will be added, a copious a.jJ valuable
collection of original
jSa/itw,
from the Records and Files of Co»*refj,
Containing (either verb .t iftl(or f„ nl n
as the cases may leverally re.juire) such in'eiclt
mg piece. rcfeiredto in the journals, as may witU
propriety be permitted to be made public, vi z
Letters from the different officer, emph.ved i„
tne public fervicc during the late war-intercept
ed letters of the enemj—communications from
Governors, date legiiiaturcs, conventions, ani
committees—difpatchel from agents and conj.
miffioners—inftrutlions — rcpotts of committees
ol Congress j and various other authentic docu
ments, tending to throw a light on the important
events, to winch America owes her prcfent iiiue
pendence. ■
Jn the cou:fe of the work, will be introduced
in their proper places, such parts of-he.
zJecret 3
as no longer require secrecy.
As soon as 500 copies are fubfenued for, the
work wiil be put to press, to be delivered to fub
cribers in numbers of 304 oflavo pages each, at
Ni eDOIL AB, In blue boards. The Sub
fcnfKon mwywi/l ,1,, be required for the tint
Number, until the publication is begun • a ,w
on the delivery of each number, half, dollar will
eexpedted in advance for th'e fucceedi!" 0l *
lo non.fubfcnbers, the price will be raised
■ S " esc, J I " ,on s will be received by t), e " Drin
-ipal booksellers throughout the Union, and br
he Editor.' , OHN - c^R a E n " b *
Ao - Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale at the Printing-Office
No. 20), Market-Street,
ind at Thomas Dobfon's Book-Stoveim
Second-Street,
Price Three- Eighths of a Dollar #
ADVICE
TO THE
PRIVILEGED ORDERS
in the
SEVERAL STATES or EUROPE
Resulting from the necellity and pro- '
priety of a General Revolution In
the Principle of Government.
By Jo k l Barlow, Efi;uire.
TO THE PUELIC.
r T , 'iE Subfcriherlusitin contemplation foo»
J. to decline tiis present business — ln d having on
hand a cor.si Jer.ble quantity ot fuperfine second
anil elaltic cloths, together with a va lietv of other
articles in his way, proposes to fell them at th
rolJowin redu<"cH pees, VIZ.
Belt Superfine navy blue ' ~r
Ditto, ditto. Scarlet t%f
Common colours luperfine
Eladic flripes J
London huff Jn d white caffimera
Ditto, coloured do. ~r
Yorklhlrc do. do . V
Striped toilcnets , r
Rattinets y.'
Sniped Nankeens : V*
A variety ofwa, , oat (hapes proportionally low
ancy buttons and trimmings do
London bell lilk hose, from 12/ '« t ,
■<nl : 5 , been
or ie n,ft mercantile houles in L oidun „nd
ri r c." ch«vwin'L??j'i ty o,ny imporud
IS m '„ kpfl f 1 " l' er p |ei -cor frualler quantity
noTh m r P"rch.rr„ ,bv b , ; /
mofthurnl.le fervan:, JOHN SHEPHERD.
per!on dilpofed to purchale tne whole
1 h re.son.Hi
? .n. r e ' ine houfc together With
rhe taiWs * '*' firuat,on for business in
he tai.or s lire „ not to be found
tmJl'T* of l! '> bufinefs bdn * r » ™» « :
eli/hed by the proprietor will be verv grat, an 4
,om we,l kn„w, ; tj£ts> necds „„ com J,^
May il """ bC had 01 lJ " : lloufc
2aw.tf,
'*.* Three handfotre Editions of the Laws
of the United '■'tates for /'ale at this cjlce
(No. 209 Marketfireet) in folio andoßa
•vo, either fu!l or half bound—N. B. The
Law, of the !„Jl ScJJion, in oflavo only, may
be hadjej. urate, price three eighths if a dollar,
PRINTED BY
CHILD 3 AND SWAINE,
AT THEIR OF K ICE NO. *09, 111 OH. R££ T '
frEAR FIFTH-STREET,
niILADEIPMIA,