Vol. I.
On the ADDITIONAL DUTIES on
IMPORTS.
THERE never existed a period in
which the problematical position,
-that the limited faculties of the human
mind are incapable of attending to ma
ny important objects at once, was moic
■%iterally verified, than at the present
ira. The electioneering discussions.
with which the public papers are con
tinually filled, afford a evidence
that local politics fuperiecie in compa
rative importance, confederations of <-
federal nature. With a diipaffionau
mind,coolly speculating on remote con
fequcnces, the contingencies of a mo
ment, and the success of partial views,
must appear objects of inferior magni
tude, when placed in competition with
mealurcs which are to affeth the union
and however oppreflive in operation
to be perpetuated. Would it not e*.
vince a more lir.cere attachment to the
true principles of equal liberty, if, in
stead of directing our whole attentior
to the choice of state officers, we view
ed with a jealous eye, and endeavourec
to arreftthe lilent, the gradual, the pro
greflive accumulation of burdens which
the general government is irnpoiing on
our commerce ?
The Secretary of the Treasury, in e
late report to Congress, on the fubjefi
of ways and means, propoled to augment
the present rates of duty, by such addi
tions as must inevitably tend to opprcls
the mercantile, and with it every othei
class of interests in the country. Thai
the present system of impost is preffec
beyond its natural bounds, mult be ob
vious to eveiy perl'on engaged in com
merce -.—that it far exceeds any com
mercial impositions by the (hates, previ
ous to the ratification of the federal
constitution, is indubitable : —-but the
riecefiities of government, the probabi
lity that general commercial regulati
ons pervading the confederacy, would
have a favourable influence ; and a per
suasion that no additional duties woulc
beimpofed, operated to reconcile the
public mind to the increase of publie
burdens. How this expe6lation is re
alized the proposed augmentation abun
dantly (hews.
Whether a possibility exists of ex
tending the present high rates of dut)
to the degree contemplated by the Se
cretary, without danger to the revenue,
is a queftien which merits the l'eriou:
attention of Congress. To ensure obe
dience, the temptations for evading
laws should not be rendered too strong,
When duties are moderate there can be
little incentive to rilque the loss of im
ported property ; when exorbitant, the
reverfeisevidently true. Fromfufpicion!
of illicit practices in this particular, foi
which our extended and indented sea
coast is peculiarly favourable, gov
ernment has conceivcd it adviieable tc
employ a number of cutters thele, al
tho' expensive, must of neceflity be in
adequate to the object, when the mo
tives to smuggling are great. To mul
tiply the number would be enhancing
Uie expencc, with very little addition
•> security. It would moreover exlii
' bit the odious appearance of tyranny
firft to load the citizens with intolerable
burdens, and then, under the fan&ior
of law, to harrafs them into submission
Conciliation is necessary in our present
federal circumstances. Measures cal
culated to embitter the minds of an in
fluential class of citizens, can have nc
favorable effect on the {lability of gov
ernment. Oppression is at all times de
tellable ; but when those who have
been the principal agents in ere&ing a
power intended to connect, pervade,
and improve the mass of political hap
piness, become the firft. or only vi&ims
of its rapacity, the refle&ion is more
exasperating, and may eventually ter
minate in dangerous cxceffes.
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhed. Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum
M O N D A Y, June 18, 1792.
Spain, by a rapacious spirit of mono
ooly, and from a determination to ren
der her American possessions as produc
tive as possible, has so injudiciously ex
panded the fyfiemofher revenue laws,
and create d such a multiplicity of offi
cers to guard and ensure its collection.
:hat in (lead of promoting, the deprelfc;
her rcfources. A living writer of great
merit and erudition, who has made the
;olicy of that country a particular ob
r£t of refcarch, gives the following fatts
as the rcfult of his enquiries :
" The commercial regulations of
Spain, with refpeft to her colonies, art
100 rigid and fyflcmatical to bt: carried
into complete execution. The legifla
.ure that loads trade with impositions
:oo heavy, or fetters it by reftriftions
;oo severe, defeats its own intention ;
and is only multiplying the induce
ments to violate its statutes, and propof
,ng an high premium to encourage illi
cit traffic. The Spaniards,both in Eu
rope and America, being circumscribed
in their natural intercourse by the jea
;oufv of the crown, or opprelTed by its
;xattions, have their invention continu
ally on the stretch how to elude its e
li6l;s. The vigilance and ingenuity ol
private interest discover means of el
cfting this, which public wisdom can
lot forclee, nor public authority pre
sent. This spirit counteracting that oi
he laws, pervades the commerce of
Spain with America in all its branches:
ind from the highest departments in
Government descends to the lowest.
The very officers employed to check
:ontraband trade are often employed as
nftrumentsin carrying it on ; and the
boards instituted to reftram and punish
t, are the channels through which it
lows. The king is fuppoled, by the
noft intelligent Spanish writers to be
defrauded by various artifices, of more
;han one half of the revenue which he
sught to receive from America ; and as
ongasitisthe intereflof to many per
"ons to screen those artifices from de
letion, the knowledge of them will ne
/er reach the throne." Robertfons's
Hist. Amer. vol. 3d page 351.
An opinion has been embraced by a
ew theorists, and urged with all the ar-
Jor of conviction, that however greal
he duty on imported articles may be.
t cannot operate partially, because the
:onfnmer eventually pays it, and tlie
nerchant experiences no more of the
yurden than his natural {hare on the
;orninodities used in his own family —
This reasoning has, indeed, the fpeciou:
emblance of truth to support it, but un
fortunately, like many other points 01
tbflract l'peculation, it is contradictec
3y the practice of every day. It is.
ruth too notorious to be denied by an)
nan acquainted with the Europeai
rade—a truth to which every merchant
rom his experimental knowledge wil
-eadily fubferibe, that in the ultimati
idjuftment of his profits, it is idle to at
:empt calculating on a higher advance
han was generally and cafily obtainec
ariorto the Revolution ; if so, the dut)
s a facrifice which he cannot recover
In the Federalist, a performance afcrib
•d to Mr. Hamilton, we find this poin
admitted and explained with great abil
ity andprecifion .*
" Suppose the federal power of taxa
tion were to be confineei to duties or
imports, it is evident, that the govern
ment, for want of being able to com
mand other resources, would frequent
ly be tempted to extend these duties tc
an injutious excess. There are persons
who imagine that this can never be the
cafe ; since the higher they are,themorc
it is alledged they will tend to discour
age an extravagant consumption, tc
produce a favourable balance of trade,
and to promote domeflic manufactures
Hut all extremes are pernicious in vari
ous ways. Exorbitant duties on im
ported articles serve to beget a general
spirit cf smuggling, which is alway;
prejudicial to the fair trader, and even
tually to the revenue itlelf: they tend
to render other dalles of the communi
ty tributary in an improper degree to
the manufa&uring dalles, to whom they
give a premature monopoly of the mar
kets : they lometimes force industry out
of its more natural channels into others
in which it flows with lels advantage, —
and in the lafl place, they oppreis the
merchant who is often obliged to pay
the n himlelf without any retribution
from the consumer. When the demand
is equal to the quantity of goods at mar
ket, the consumer generally pays the
duty ; but when the markets happen to
be overstocked, a great proportion falls
upon the merchant, and sometimes not
only exhausts his profits, but breaks in
upon his capital. It is not always pof
(ible to raifc the price of a commodity
in exact proportion to every additional
irriDofition laid upon it.. The merchant,
Specially in a country of small commer
;ial capital, is often under the necel
!ity o! keeping prices down in order to
i more expeditious sale." —Vide Fedc
:raliit No. 35. —Page 212, of vol. I.
That the Secretary has either chang
ed his opinion within a very limited pe
riod, or finds himfelf inclined or impel
led to accommodate his ientiments tc
the capricious suggestions of fancy, will
appear from comparing his I ast repori
on the mod eligible mode of Supplying
the treasury, with another presented tc
ihc congreflional House of P-eprefenta
iveson the 17th of December, 1790, ir
which we find the following judiciou:
abfervations :
" It need fcarccly be observed, thai
the duties on the great mass of importec
irticles, have reached a point, which il
would not be expedient to exceed
There is fatisfaftory evidence that the)
annot be extended further withou
:ontravening the sense of the body o!
merchants; and though it is not to b(
jdmitted as a general rule, that this cir
ttumftance ought to conclude against thf
expediency of a public mealure ; yet
when due regard is had to the difpofi
ion which that enlightened class of ci
izens has manifefted towards the na
ional government —to the alacrity witl
which they have hitherto fcconded it:
jperations—to the accommodating tem
jer with which they look lorward tc
hose additional impolit ion son theobjeft
>f trade, which arc to commence witl
he enl'uing year ; and to the greatness o
he innovation which, in this particular
las already taken place in the forme
of things; there will be perceivec
0 exist the inoft solid rcai'ons again!
ightly passing the bounds which coin
;ide with their imprellions of what i
eafonable and proper. It would be
in every view, inaulpicious to give oc
cafion lor a luppofition, that trade aloru
is destined to feel tlie immediate weigh
jf the hand of government, in every new
emergency of the treasury.
" Admitting the general position
.hat the consumer pays the duty ; yet i
will not follow that trade may not b<
jffentiaily dillrefl'cd and injured by car
rying duties on importation to a heigh
which is difproportioned to the mercan
:ilc capital of a country. It may no
anly be the cause of diverting too large
1 share of it from the exigencies of buli
ness ; but as the requisite advances tc
atisfy the duties will, in many, if not n
noft cases, precede the receipts froir
the sale of the articles on which they arc
aid, the consequence will often be fa
rifices which the merchant cannot as
ford to make.
1; Appearances do not juftify such ar
:ftimate of the extent of the mercantile
capital of the United States, as to encou
rage material accumulations on the al
1 eady considerable rates of the duties cr
the mass of foreign importation.
" It is presumable, that a dill furthei
augmentation would have an influence
the reverie of favourable to the public
Numb. 67.
credit. The operation would be apt to
be regarded as artificial, as destitute of
solidity, as prel'enting a numerical in
crease ; but involving an attual diminu
tion of revenue. The diftrufl of the ef
ficacy of the present provision might al
io be accompanied with a doubt of a bet
er substitute hereafter.' The infer
:nce would not be unnatural that a de
left of other means, or an inability to
rommand them, could alone have given
jirth to so unpromising an effo: t to drav/
ill from one iotirce.
" A diverfification of the nature of
the funds is desirable on other accounts.
It is clear that less dependence can be
placed on one fpeciesot funds (and that
oo liable to the vicissitudes of the con
inuance or interruption of foreign in
:ercourfe) than upon a variety of differ
ent funds formed by the union of inter
lal with external objects.
" The inference, from thefc various
ind important confederations fcems to
le, that to attempt to extract from du
:ies on imported articles, the sum necef
ary to a complete proviiion for the pub
ic debt, would probably be both decep
;ive and pernicious; incompatible with
he interests not less of revenue than of
rommerce ; that resources of a differ
ent kind must of neceflity be explored ;
ind that the felc&ion of the most fit ob
e£ts is the only thing which ought to
accupy enquiry.
" Besides the establishment of supple
mentary funds, it is requilite to the sup
port of the public credit, that those efta
alifhed should stand upon a footing
which will give all reasonable alTurancc
as their effe&ual collection."
The conclusion reluElantly admitted by
the Secretary, that of all possible expe
dients for encreafing the revenue, a re
tort to additional duties is the most el
igible, seems to be founded partly on.
the fallacious hypothelis, that foreign
commodities are importedon much more
" advantageous terms than heretofore"
—hence he infers " a circumflance
which must alleviate the prelTurc of
fome-what higher rates of duty, and
must contribute at the fame time to re
concile importers to burdens, which be
ing connected with an efficacious dis
charge of the duly of government, are
of a nature to give solidity and perma
nency to the advantage they enjoy un
der it."
Translations from the Leyden Gazette,
to March 30.
Stockholm, March 13. —M.deßou-
ille, son to the general of that name,
who arrived at Geflle from Coblenta,
during the session of the states, is pre
paring to rejoin the French princes. Ihe
king was the firft to set the example of
recognizing, in them, a sovereign pow
:r, and giving them countenance.
The speedy departure of a Ruffian
fleet for the coasts of France, perhaps
for the Mediterranean, is no longer a se
cret ; altho' we do not pretend to form
ill the conje£lures that we might, rela
tive to a concert between Sweden
Russia.
Brussels, March 25. —On the Bth
instant we received the difagreeablo
news of the death of Leopold lid.—Til
confcquence of this, all the true friends
of their country in the Belgic provinces
are in tears. Prudence and moderation,
united, were the charafteriftics of his
reign \ and the fimilanty of his piinci
plcs to the national character of the Bel
gic provinces, promised a calm of foma
duration after the storms we have expe
rienced.
Paris, March 19. —Various contra
dictory accounts have from time to time
come to hand relative to the disturban
ces at Aries, Avignon, Carpentras, Aix,
and other places about the mouth of the
Rhone. It is remarkable that a certain
peculiar enthusiasm prevails in all the
f'outla of France for the principles of the
riencedRevolution, and on the otlier liana an
opposition equally violent, which can
not but produce a civil war—l he corn
mifiionershavc been able to do nothing,
and every thing fecms returning to its
original state of nature, tlie lli'ongelt
party giving law to the weaker, and the
democrats marching under arms to re
duce the above named cities. From 7
to 8000 Marfeillans, besides the nation
al guardsat Nil'mes, &e. with 18 pieces
of artillery, are determined to destroy e
veryremaining hope of theiradverfaries.
Two deputies from the department ot
the Mouths of the Rhone, have been pre
fenced to the ailembly—they report that the
inhabitants of Aries, Apt, and Avignon have
fuffered extremely from the anti-revolu
tioni'.ts, who, under the direJlion 01 tiie
priests, have torn up the pavements, de
stroyed the cannon, and even fired upon the
national guard.—Others, however, fay that
tiiefeoutrages are more owing to the patri
otic chibs an-l theconftitutioiiulprielb than
any other cause.
In co He raence of the representations o',
thef-deputies, a quei'tion arose in the ai'-
fembly, whether the counter-revolution
ists at Aries, See. fhn'l be difarmed —upon
which the new minister of war informed
tne aifembly that he had taken measures to
difpr.tch into the southern provinces several
battallions of troops of the line and nation
al volunteer?, and amply fufficient to re
prefsthefe disturbances.
In the session of the aflembly, on the 17th
of March, the following observations were
addressed to them by M. Lobjoie on the
fubjeft of diplomatic agents, resident abroad
at foreign courts. —" Under such a consti
tution as that of regenerated France, it is
thought ulelefs, by forne, to support any
m;.'lifters whatever at foreign courts —It
were to be wished that all nations, united
by t'.ie fame fp'rit, might alike embrace
peace and jufiice — but it is to be cenfidered
that great political bodies have no affec
tions exceot those that concern them indi
vidually,and 'till philosophy (hall so far have
perfected iocial order as to make sovereign?
equ :1 participaters therein, I believe it is
the interest even of regenerated France, to
have an eftabliihiaent of foreign agents. It
is my opinion, notwithstanding, that there
is no neceff.ty for that herd of diplomatic
officers, authorized by fovereigus at some
courts, wiio can nei:h'r <lo good nor harm
—It is high time a reform took place in the
organisation of the old diplomatic system,
eipeci ally in regard to titles, which only
occaficn jealoudes among the agents of the
public at other courts. At one place there is
an ambaflador, at another an envoy, here
are ministers, there a charge-des-affaires ;
in some places we have relidents, in others
consuls, &c.—all different names to fignify
the fame thing.—lnfteadofall this variety,
let us defigmte our foreign ministers under
onelmple name,fuch a; Legal-, orMJJenger
o c France.—The Romans, whom we need
not be afbamed to imitate, no otherwise
distinguished those who were the mere par
five organs of their supreme will—Bur how
is this new plan of uniformity to be made
general through Europe ? The answer is
easy—Let us difpatcb only men with the
title of Legates, to other powers, and juftas
they treat the simple character ofthefe per
sons, so let 11s treat their ambafladors, and
others under high founding appellations.--
When we have only one rank of diploma
tic servants, there will naturally arise but
one diftinftion, that of virtue and ability
i 1 the execution of the duties of office.---
Real talents will by this means be brought
forth, and the diplomatic honors no longer
diur,raced by ridiculous vanity and felf-co 1-
ceit,"&c. This address was ordered to be
p inted and feat in to the diplomatic com
mittee.
March 34. It'is remarkable that the late
vacant places in the ministry, for domrjlic
impojts and jujlice, are all fiiled from the Ja
cobins club ; and it is a fact that this far
famed c'ub has given to the king all the
confidential ministry he at preterit has.
March 2;. Yesterday a hand-bill was
seen palled up at all the corners of the
streets, containing about a dozen ques
tions of the following tenor—" Are they
Jacobins who are running after the emolu
ments of the civil lift ? —Are they Jacobins
that fabricate falfe aflign its ?—ls the em
peror's partv in France fnpported by the
Jacobins ?—To all this was one general
answer, certainly, not It may be ques
tioned, however, whether the Jacobins,
by encouraging licentiousness and disobedi
ence to the laws, have not done more to
wards adiffolution of the present govern
ment, and relapsing it into defpoiifm, than
all the efforts of the emigrants and the aris
tocrats put together.
Brufcts, March 25. The death of the
emperor, Leopold ad. is matter of grief to
all true friends of their country. Pr udence
and msderation united, characterized his
reign, and the conformity of his principles
to the national chat-after of the Belgic pro
vinces, seemed to promise a long calm, af
ter the severe storm with which we have
been buffeted.
Uyitn, March 39. England has lately
I oft two famous men, the ornament an.
support of the arts —these are Sir J. Rey
nolds, and Mr. Robert Adams, fellow oj
tbs royal focietv, archite-t to tiie kaig, aad
member of parliament.
LONDON, April 15. 26.
Fifteen hundred Pruiliaus are ordered tc
quit the Duchy of Magdebourgh for the
banks oi tile Rhine, wnere already ther
are 10,006 stationed.
Eight hundred Artillery hor."e are arri
ved at Berlin, a certain murk of immediate
War. A like number belonging to the
Emperor are in motion, and 7000 Auftriaii
011 the 3 1 it ult. took the route of Uavaria.
In tile Low countries the Cantonment:
are upo:i the increase hourly, yet the emi
grations are terrible.
The elector of Mayence, the Biflicp o:
Spire, anil the French Princes are extreme
lv well (atisiied with the late determinatioi
of the hig :er powers.
1 ne cabinet of Berlin i s reported to havi
regularly communicated to Vienna all the
proportions of M. Segur 011 the part o
France ; and it is laid that thole Court
were thereby oniy further convinced <1
the positive dan: er of the royal person thu
in the hands oi: his Jacobine perfecuteics.
_ The king of England has it in contempla
tion to reiign the electorate of 1:1 :over t<
the Dake ot York. This, with the reve
nr.es ot Ofnaburg, and his annuity fron
Parliament, would enable him to keep ;
more splendid court than many of hisneidi
bours.
'The last accounts from the colony of N
South Wales are ot a dreadful nature
1 he whole settlement were put upon Ihor
allowance 011 account of the extreme fear
city oi: provilions, and tile crops railing a
Port-Jackson were of the molt unfavora
ble kind—the molt promising not likely t(
yield three buihels for one l'own • and ii
many parts even the feed was not expectee
to be returned. 111 fliort, the project o
the whole settlement was deplorable in tin
extreme.
1 he speculations on the fubjectof a con
tinental war are now at an end. The die
is certainly cast, and it is to be determinec
by force, "the lal't reasoning of kings,'' how
far the league offovereigns will be able t(
subdue the new energies and the new con
llitution of France.
Mr. Dundas yesterday received difpat
ches iiom Lord Gower, mentioning tha
the king had gone down on Friday l'a:t te
the Aflembly, lor the purpole of recom
mending to that body an immediate de
claration of war againit the king of Hun
gary. The crowds, it wasftated, which wer>
aflembled to catch the firlt tidings of thi
momentous decision, were so nreat as te
impede the paflage of the fovereigu to the
Allemoiy, and tue orelinarv courier cani;
away on Friday evening without intelli
gence of the iinal determination.
The intelligence received by govern
ment atsleven o'clock lait evening, wentnc
farther than this introductory statement
But from an express receiveel yellerday e
vening by a Frencii merchant of the firlt c
minence in the city, we are enabled to state
in addition, that the king of the French re
commended to the Aflembly to make ar
immediate declaration of war in confe
quenceof the answers which he had recei
ved from tha court of Vienna, from which
conjoined with foirie holtile movements,
it was apparent that the King of Hungarj
waited but for a favourable opportunity te
make war 011 France.
The king left lhe alterably, and aftei
Come debate it was decreed on the fame
evening—that war fliouid be immediately
declared 1
The formal declaration of hostilities wa 1
expected to take place on Saturday mor
ning. _
While it might be supposed, that undei
the circuraltances of aitual war, in vvhicl
the French are now engaged, they wouk
be glad to unite the abifties of their bell
generals, and those who have been the
warmest friends to the revolution,we fine
th? greateit degradation call on M. De i.
Fayette that a rabble could invent. H; 1
bull, which was erected at the expense o:
the nation, tor his fuppofeel services to ii
1:1 the beginning of the revolution, has beev
torn down by the mob, and ignominicufl)
dragged through the streets of Paris.
CubUnlz. Every countenance here i
brightened by the late intelligence fron
Vienna. An attack upon France is conli
:lered as certain, and the arrival of the
Prince of NalTau is all that is waitedfor. How
far the forces of the Emigrants are to be
co-operant with the Austrian troops tl)e\
are yet ignorant ; the German force upoi:
the frontiers is now become a very migluy
army.
THE Jubfcriber beg! lave to acquaint bis
friends and the public in general, that bt
bus removed from Pennington to tout noted taverr,
md ferry pand obbofite to Eajlon, on tbe jcrfr,
fide of the Delaware, He has provided .jimftlJ
zvitb a good end fafefet of ferry-craft:, and pur
tiojes keeping tie btft entertainment for mar. and
borje. E V c'y attention pall be paid to ger.tltmtr.
travellers and others by tbe public's vit.fl obedient
md very humb e fcrvant,
THOMAS HULL MAN.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
EXCISE LA IV.
HphV, spirited conduct of fomegood old
A whig; of 1775,1 a deitroying the no
tification of the exciseman in Germantown
as a dfgraceful badge ofjlavery may convince
our ruiers that a free people will not be
anmfed by finauc'al palliatives. It ha;
been justly observed by an eminent author,
that power vegetates with more vigor af
ter gentle primings, A {lender reform a
lnufes and lull? the people, the populai
enthusiasm fubtide , a;id the moment of ef
fcftual redress is irretrievably loft. IVhttev:,
is good ought to be pu J':i>d at the time it 1 attaina
blc.—The voice of the people is contemned uith im
punity when dictated by that lethargy int<
which nations are lulled by the tranqui
course of their ordinary affairs. The ar
dor of redress perifhe'. in ail impoten
ilruggle with those who are inter fled in perpetua
ting abufc. — The fiat? of a nation lulled int<
complacent servitude by petty conccjjions i
far more hopeless than that of thoi'e win
groan under the molt galling yoke of fervi
tude. Itisfaidthat in England a mecha
nic and a mantifafturer pays no taxes ; i
is true, that a direct tax is no: taken, bu
an inlidious fyltem of indirect taxation b
means of duties, excises, and rtamps upoi
every article necessary for the support o
a family. The government lilches from th;
poorlaborer above seven pounds annually
which amounts to one half of the produc
of his labour, and occasions a majorit;
of that class to linger in a miserable irate o
opprefiive labour, and to end their com
lortlefs days in a poor house, supported b;
public cuarity. The government of th<
United States in all things wifliing to imi
tate the corrupt principles of the court o
Great-Britain, has commenced the dif
graceful career by an excise law, and du
ring the last session of Congress attemptec
a Jlamp duty on cards, with a fanctified pre
tence to discourage gambling !
June 14.
.-.'.u..-
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Enemies to the Government!
WE 3re often told, that the enemies o!
government alone complain of it:
meifnres, and that those enctnus a eforeigne s
The legiilature of Virginia remonftratec
against the Afiumption : that of Pennsylva
nia reprobated the Excise : a grand jury ir
Georgia presented it, a; a public grievance;
the journals of Congress abound with peti
t.ons and remonllrances against it, si on:
towns, cities, and whole diftrifls : a respec
table minority in Congress (the {ingle vol:
of Gen. fackfon might havej frequently made
it a majority) have repro alcd every one of die
liieafures that are complained of; and ii
Pennsylvania had been represented in :1k
Senate, many of those meafnres, which
were carried only by the editing voice u.
the Vice-PreGdent, would periiaps nevei
have been adopted. Foreigners then are nol
the only complainants, nor are the com
plainants few in number.
Suppofmg however, —an impofiibility—
that ail the complaints, which have appear
ed in print in every part of the union, were
the productions of a single obfeure indivi
dual what then ? may not an individu
al venture to express sentiments fant'tionec
by the refpeflable authorities above quoted;
Does that, which is truth in the mouths 01
the many, cease to be truth, when repeatec
by one ? Does the obfeurity of the writer
cad an obfeurity over the truth ? mult lis
be mounted on the coffers of the Treasury.
the counters of the National Bank, or ;
Speculator's strong- box, before he can ch
tain a hearing ? or if born in a foreign coun
try, mult he be re-born in America, before
he can dare to (peak? Is this republican
ism ? Is this the equality of rights held forth
to foreigners, to invite them to come anc
fettle here ? Are they to be silent hewers oi
wood and drawers of water, not perm::-
ted to open their mouths in defence of thou
rights ? ,When,on reading the Federal Co::-
ftitution in their native land, they four.c
the faith of the United States pledged foi
its observance, when, depending or
that faith, they came to fettle in America,
have they not a right to expect, that pro
mires so fo'emnly plighted, liiali be as relig'i
onfly performed.'' Has this been the
cafe:' Has not aim cjl a majority of both hou
ses of Congress often declared the contra
ry ? Does a decided majority alone make
iny nieafure constitutional and juli ? If so,
what are we to think of the Keprefentati
on Bill? A majority of both I'oufes palled
ana, which they maintained to be constitu
tional : a majority of the fame pc 'cms palled
mother upon a quite different principle,
ivhich I hope they think constitutional too.
Were they both constitutional? 11111 ft 1101
:he one or the other have been a violation
'f the constitution ? And if a majority of bctl
'iovfes havefanEitoned a violation of the conjlitvticr
n one inltance, why may tliey not do it
11 anv other ? and whenever they do, has
lot every individual in the union a right to
:enfure them for violating the faith of the
United States fofolemnly pledged toeverv
dtizen, whether a native or
A FOREIGNER ?
Philadelphia, June )£th.
P II I L A DELPHI A.
June 18, 1793.
Letters from England fay, that the French
declaration of war has given the greatest
atisfaftion to all ranks°of citiz-ns ; anil
J.ds fair to reconcile ail differences and en
able the ijition to direfl: its united force
igainll their common object.
, The ground has been lately visited, by
tne Prelideht and managers of the* Sufque
hanna Navigation, that is marked for the
Quitapahilla caual. This canal will units
tae ScM-jlkil and Suf-juehanna atadiflance
no 1 , exceeding four miles and thirty one
Ki/ery thing is fa:d to be in for
u ardnels for beginning the work.
O t the nth inft. the election for govern
or was determined in the city of New
\ ork ; when George Clinton was de
cla i'd governor, and Pierre. Fun Cortlai
lieutenant-governor of the Hate, by am#
jority of the canvaifers. 7
jhe marquis de la Fayette ic beco - ~ *
considerably obnoxious to the municipality
or Paiis, \t ho have deliberated 011 remov
ing his bull from the Hotel de Viile. The
conduct of the municipality is, however
reprobated by the national guards, and Se
veral sections of Paris.
It is said the queen of Portugal, under
the dire&ion ol Oocior Willis, i-. raoiciiy
recovering from her ft ate of iufanity. *
The present circumflances of continental
Europe render (it is said) the situation 01
Great Britain peculiarly critical at thi
time, and theminifter, it was feared, might
be forced in oa war directly contrary tc
his own opinion. "The English funds
have already felt a very conliderable de
pression, and threaten to'be Hill lower un
til the impending cloud difpeifes."
Letters from Red-Stone mention that great
numbers of people, who had resorted there
with a view of going down the Ohio tc
Kentucky this spring, have been unable tc
put their design in execution, on account of
the danger from Indian depredations.—
Mofl ot these are consequently in great dis
tress, scattered about Red-Stone, having
expended their little all. Two boats onl}
had attempted to go down the river ; boti
of which were taken, and the people ei
ther killed or made priioners by the fava
ges. Several murders have been commit
ted along the Ohio by the Indians ; and the
frontier inhabitants, it is said, are gene*
rally removing to garrisons for their imme
diate fafety.
The patriotic French song of Cairn
has becoinj extremely falluonable in
London. At Drury-Lane theatre it was
importunately demanded by pit and ga'.le
y, inllead of GoilJ'ave Great George. The vox
's were for the latter. Themuficiansfeign
ed to be unacquainted with the French
tune, and so it palled over. This boid anc
animating song may be considered as tilt
funeral dirge of tyrants.
All ecclesiastical drefies are abolished.in
France by a decree of the aflembly ; th<
ame decree annihilates all religious cor
porations, fnch as the Sorbonne, See. &c.
fhis is adeath-ftroke to fanaticifm, which
under certain di/gu:p:s- has always impofec
upon the undefignnig part of mankind.
According to letters from Bourdeaux.
three hundred thousand men have volun
tarily inlified in France, upon finding there
was a deficiency of little more than co,occ
in the line of the army. A million of men,
it is said, are preparing to follow theit
example, if found necefl'ary It is men
tioned in London paper.-, that so dread
ful has been the plague in Egypt that three
hundred thousand lioufes have been depo
pulated, and shut up by the order of the go
vernment. "What is very extraordinary
this awful visitation, which carried offnear,
iv half a million of people, lasted but three
Jays."
The present disturbances in Sweden,
we are told, cannot properly be afcri
jed to any sentiment of Liberty in the
lation. On the contrary, it is only the
iruggle of one tyranny against anoth <t
The nobles formerlyexercifed an unlimited
appreflive power, which was overturned bj
the king (lately fallen a victim to the air
run of Ingelltroom) who took it into his
Jwil hands : and altho'the finances of the
:ountry had been involved by his schemes of
imbit!on,to which he was stimulated by
.he old French government, yet the peo
ple have enjoyed more privileges under
liim, and therefore preferred his despotism
to that of the nobles.
On the 25th of April Mr. Dundas's mo
tion that "The English African slave trade
Ihould cease on the firfl of January, 1
was negatived in the British house of Com
mons by amajority of 49, out cf 267 that
voted.
There is a similarity of conduct (fays a
London paper) in the despotic combinations
on the continent, and the government of thh
country, which cannot escape the notice of
the discerning. Austria, Prsffia, and Swe-Dei *p;var desirous of provo'-.ing France
firft to declare hostilities : and the late af
fair in the East-Indies between an Englilh
and French frigate, would induce cue to
believe that Eng'a;id wished i ranee to be
gin a war.
Extrafl of a Utter from Germantown, June 16.
'• ince the eltablifhment of the society
in this place,, for promoting domeflic ma
nufactures, considerable progress has been
made in the linncn and v. oollen
es • and a great emulation has been
created to make use of American ar
ticles of cioathing. The society is now
turning its attention tothe culture offilk.
At the 1 ast meeting of the society, the
President distributed a quantity of the
ergs of the iilk worm,and it is expelled that
an'attention to this fubjeft will in a few
years contribute to the prosperity of our
village O.ie member of the society has
sown twenty bnihels oi li>xiced this year,
the produce of which will be manuiaclnred
in tne neighbourhood."
I: omen , well to the cause of freedom,
that the Coa.it Florida Bianca's party in
Spain are rapidly on the decliie. H 1 bro
ther, governor of the, count - of the Indies
is also d (graced, banilhrd into an obf. are
corner of La Mancha, a id deprived or' all
hi • pension . By the Jail account-, the Abbe
d'heral, agent for the French Prinze; at
Ma lrid, was also on the point of leaving
Spain, the popular current turning fall a
g'ainit him and the cause of the emigrants,
gcc. —Mr Guardoqui is now-appointed go
vernor of the council of the indies.
We were told by several of the Delegate.
in our Hate convention, at the i.me the* ) e
deral government was adopted, that COll
- "dare not under that governmnt,in
fringe the liberty ( f the 1-rei : that it was a
power inherent in the people, and could not
be exercised by the governm.nt : that such
an ast on th.» part of government, would
irritate the nation : that all powers not giv
en up, are reserved : that tne freedom oi
the press is one of the great btilwark o* li
berty, and can never be retrained but by
despotic government:'. : that the free circu
lation of period cal publications, as the only
means th. ough which thepeopie can be in
formed ot tiie proceed ; g- of their luleis,
would be carefully attend; -i to. How Kir
these af'ertio.i are verified, by the tax on
newfpapeiv.u hich operate; in some measure
to prohibi the wire illation oi the in, nv. ds not
the aid of sophistry redetermine : but .t is
hoped that the fupportert of ft. unparall -s d
a measure, have it not in view ro irntale tne
nation. 0 ' r §- P a p er - J
The following prophecy of St. Patrick
(alias Patrick Henry) taken from the debates
of our date convention, may be very aptly
applied to our prefe.lt iituation : —".When
op'prellioii; take place, our Representative.,
may tell u-, we contended for your interek.
but we could not carry our point, because
the Representatives from Mafi'achufetts,
Isew Hatnpihire, Connecticut, See. were
again!! us." {Virginia Paper. )
An Independent V, hig is thus described
by Mr. Gordon, and the character is wor
thy of attentive confederation at this peri
od.—" He scorns all implicit faith in the
State as well a in the church- The authori
ty of names is nothing to li'.m ; he judges
all men by their actions and behaviour, and
hates a knave of his own party, as much as
he defp.fes a fool of another. He consents
not that any man or body of men fliall co
what they please : he claims a right of ex
amining all public measure.,, and if they de
serve it" ofcen.uring them. As lie never
saw much power pollelied without some a
bufe,he takes upon h,ill to watch thole that
have it, and to acquit or expo.e them ac
cordingly as they apply it to the good of
theirc'nutry,or to anfvver their o v vn crook
ed purposes."
Some persons cannot read aproduftion*
tven in a n ufpafer, without a wiih to know
fomethii'g or the author : such as. whe
ther he be a foreigner, or honif-boru, or
well-born— its he a dark-complexioned man
or a white man —a tall or a snort man ?
A man of property, or a no-piopertv-mnn r
No pains are spared by Jome to deveiope
these important points, while arguments
remain unanswered. May not such inqui
sitive persons be justly Ityled curious imper
tinents ; and would they not do well to
adopt the good old motto—mind your own
buftnfs ?
The opprefiive inequality of the Excise Law
has been loudly and jultiy complained ot :
but those, who uttered the complaint , iiave
been (ligmatized as '■'enemies to the government,'
and branded wiih every odious name, that
interejled ingenuity could devise. The friends
of tnat law mult however prepare to en
counter a much more numerous holt of new
and unexpected opponents. Let them
therefore iharpen their pens, dip theto deep
in "all, and write in the bitterest (train ot
virulence againit that powerful confedera
cy, who feeling their wrath and indignation
roused at the deitruftion of the southern
and western orchards by an eofern cxcifc
have sworn the deitruftion of all the apple
trees in New-England, and aie ahead)
carrying their threats into execution ; since
the papers from Mafi'achufetts dolefully
complain, that they [Me canker-norms] "arc
naking dreadful ravages among the apple
trees in that (fate and liie State ot Coiiuec
f..ut."
Some person in a pcper of la ft week af
fects to lpeak very contcmptiblv of News
papers. To futhit might be recommend
ed, to treat in future, with a little more
refpefl, a species of publication to which
the independence, freedom, and govern
ment of the Unite .I States is under no ('mall
obligations. If zvj iters, however, are for.d
of undervaluing neujpapers, what pity th: i
/'/inters (hould be lo very (illy as to join in i
cry, and abnl'e the means oj their daily It ted !
From the language of several Bolton pi
pers, the Indian war is far from beipo
pular in Maii'achul'etts —There are tew
liere (fay they) who do not execrate the
injustice & delpife the impolicy, that have
bunged a young country into bloocUhed,
i igrace and milery, to procure a w;ld and
lUtauC territory ; while the At/antic State:,
;re not half inhabited, and Millions oi
icres therein are darkened by the lofty fo
"eft, and groaning for hands to cultivate
he fertile foil."
The national assembly of France hav<
>egun the abolition of corporations, as un
v.vorable to liberty. In this view itsch?r
er has been taken from the university o;
?aris. " The history of this univeriity
Tav ; the Leyden Caz.) is farcical enough,
t i:rll alfumed the ridiculous title of tid
/l daughter of the kings of France ; while the
ui poration ilyled ihemfelves Eldejlfons of
he church. It was no difficult matter to
o'lvince the assembly that it is high lime
0 clip the wings of an institution, whole
node of government and principles did by
10 means accord with the ideas of liberty
itid universal tolerance that diftinguiih
he new conuitution. For the preient,
lowevsr, the plan of education is not to
ie changed; although this will undergo a
;reat reformation, in a (liort time, and the
cier.ce of men and things be. adopted inite;
if antiquated languages, unintelligible the
iries, and fenfeiefs iyftems, which it has
litherto been the lot of youth to (trug
,le with —a plan wifely adopted by defpo
nin, which has too often amused mankind
litherto with the (hadow of knowledge
nftead of the fubitance."
There leems not to have been at any pe
iod such a general unicn of lientimeiit a
;ainft the. African (lave trade, as at preient
ippears in Great Britain, scarcely a town
>r village in the whole island but has pet
itioned for the abolition of this unjufttraf
ic—the petition from wa. iigned
>y upwards of 20,000 people — from ;v\au
lielter by more than io,ooo, and from
fork about 23,000, and others, it is laid,
n equal proportions.
The evils arising from lotteries in En
gland, are beginning to claim the legiHa
lve conlideration ol that country. To i nch
1 height has this legal mode oi gambling
idvauced among them, that in conlequence
hereof thousands of individuals have ren
lered thenifelves incapable of paying their
axes, during the lall year.
" A lottery is a taxation
Upon all thfe fools in creation
And heaven beprais'd,
'l is ealily rais'd,
Credulity's always in fafiiion :
For lolly's a fund
W.ll never loose ground
While fools are so rife in the nation. "
MANUFACTURES,
IT has never been a quel Lion whether
nanuiaftures be beneficial to a country
,vhere they flourilh ; and yet to judge from
he laboured reasonings to eltabiiih th:
joint, it wou'd be ftppoftd that a pro
hibition or difcouragenient of this branch
if indullry among us had been contended
for. It is but fair to admit that the dnfer
;nce of opinion turns on the question, " In
what decree manufactures ought to be
forced, or left free in their grow tiiand,
as some think, 011 the question alio, " how
far manufacturing eftablilhmenu ought tc
be made political enginesTo a candid mind
it would seem that there are some, who.e
deas on the fub_e£t, generally, do not ktej:
|.ace with the progress of circumllanii...
111 this country, favorable to manufactures.
On the other hand, from the extreme zeal
and over-done arguments of the partisans
o/power, it is too much to be fufpefted
that femething more is in view than the fubhc in
let'Jl. —They are not so blind as not to fee
(though they may think others are) that
under the pretext of nurturing manufac
tures, a new field may be opened for fa
vouruifm, influence, and monopolies. But
what is 1110 ft of all to be dreaded in this free
country is, that if manufactures get too
much under the hand of power, it will soon
be proclaimed from the house-tops, what
i already zvhifptredin c.rners, that this or that
branch is ripe for theexcij. :nan, and that tiie ta
w ill be the more jult, as the government
has been at the expense of maturing the
lu bje it of it. There is such a p.-openfity to
abules in taxation and money matter
that a free people, whilst they give the
lirmeft support to order and good govern
ment, will ever keep in mind, that a rca
jonable jealcufy is a republican virtue ; nor will
.hey ever be reproached for exercifiilg thi
i in ue, e.-:ce;>c !>y such as are open or secret
-»ic liiie ;of aie liberty which thai alone cm;
Kti'erve.
[I'rcma Country Corrrf, ond/nt ]
1 do not tccollcit lo Lave read any thing wr.t
en latterly in favor of pciiodic.tl publ cations,
pointing cut their general utility, . nd the berie
!:t people like us, livirw remote liom the featol
.'ovriiimcnt, would receive fiom a conflantand
cgular perulal of newspapers. Perhaps some
nay think ihut their utility is so generally
iudcl!sbliU)<-d that it would ou!> he impertinence
wid folly to fay any thing to induce a more gen
ial perulal: but the cafe is lotfo; and why
liould it be thought folly when there are, in fact,
hree fourths ct my neighbours who are (liame
u!ly ignorant ot the procee dings of Congtels and
>ther pubhe mutters, julf as it they were no mo':-
ntcielli d in their proceedings than il they were
live, and bondltnen ;ort at their atts did no
norc concern them that) those ol the Polifli diet,
>1 the divan at Gonhahtinople. For my own
>3rt I receive three different papers weekly, and
hough my plantation is not laiger than mofl of
ny neighbours, 1 conlider the expence as lulling
fiicn the reflexion occuts to me how intimately
.cquaimedl ant with the feniiments, the ptinci
>les, and conduit of the different members that
onihtute our ederal government; and though
hcv are now dil'perled over the diffetent dates,
et 1 am not the iefs acquainted with their politi
al creed, and can very jullly conclude whether
nv fellow citizens to the eaflward or Southward
re faithful republicans, by the vittue, the phi
anthropy,and icpublicanilm of their represent i
ives So well had I become acquainted with the
jolitical chaiafcter and conduct of our lederal le
;illators, that, previous to the decifto . on that
mcllion, I named every member, individually,
vho voted the admtflion of general Jack
on, and thole that were in lavor ol it. —I could,
n hke manner, have mentioned the names ol the
m.jority who carried the tirll representation bill,
s v/ell as the names of the virtuous minority :
,nd when the equitable and immoital Wafhing
on icturt.ed it with his objections I could have
iained over the memorable twenty-seven, who
oted for its palling the Houle in contraditlion
0 the Priftdcnt's judgement and the Sundament
-1 principles of republicaniftn. I hive alio in
lr:et remembrance the members who have uni
oivnlv tupported the Kxctfe Law and the Fund
tig S , ll'.an. Not am 1 wholly ignorant of the
noceedinrs of ihe Senate, thanks be to the wor
hy few tbere who gave us the names of those
. nth, men who voted againfl having their doors
iperied. Bui 1 could not find a certain name
n that day's proceedings; which greatly I urpii
tcd me, from the confidence the ma ority of
his (late has long placed in him. I wilh his po
iiical lun may not have palled its meiidian on
hat day.
Wlienever I read a fpccch of a member of
Uongrefs in Support of republicaniftn and the
•quitable lights of man, relpect lor and admi
ationof his principles cS dually rivets his name
jn my memorj' —Others there are wiiofe prin
ipies are taken on trust from their friends ; —
principles which, in lafcl, they never pofleded ;
or, when on the floor of Congtefs, such per
sons have too frequently proved thcmfelves ar
ant arilloctats— but Congress is the grand po
ltical touch-stone which tries every man's ptiii
:inlcs therein.
In regard to government, many newspapers
mav juflly be laid to be the friendly monitoisof
he public by acquainting the in with the puiity
3i baseness of the metal. Certain it is, fonie
who have pafl'cd for good, well meaning men,
have in a great mealuic been changed after fit
ting fume months with a certain honorable body.
Ha'.ce, some of our country dottors are incli
ned lo fuppol'e the Federal Dome may be Some
what infittious —Pity that feme of your more
learned physicians in Philadelphia would not
lake the cale into serious confidcration, and give
us their opinion. As the membeisare nowdif
petfed over the country, it is polfible a i infec
lion may be communicated by some of them,
and before we aie i.ware, the disorder rendered
epidemical.
Cumberland County, May 31 •
A curious FaSl.
" Inthetimeof Julius Cafar, the Da
nube tiled to freeze, and armies marched
over it on the ice : but, for centuries pad,
no ice has been made in that river."
[Gen. Adv.]
Ov : d goes a little farther, and tells us,
that the lea itfelf, at the mouth of the Da
nube, used to freeze : nor does he relate
this in one of his sportive poetic mood-., but
in serious, sober fadnef, and attempting to
philosophize on the causes cf this phoeno
menon so new to a native of Italy. See
Triftia, Lib. 3. Eleg. 10. V. ji. 81c. See.
Another Curious Fa&.
At the firlf discovery of the northern con
tinent of America few or 110 cod-filh were
found to the southward of the banks of
Newfoundland and Sable island. About
25 or 30 years ago they were firft dilco
vered off Sandy-Hook, in the vicinity of
New-York. It has been observed that
ever fmce that time they have gradually be
come more and more plenty on the fiihing
grounds olf the Neverlink, in 6, 7, and 8 fa
thoms water, and perhaps e jually so many
miles farther eastward. The present fea
t'on has afforded an abundance, hitherto un
known iu that part. Within tliefe few
rear - they begin to be found off and about
the Cap.: of Delaware-B: y,tho' ifc compa
ratively small quantities—and, it is raid,
two or three have been caught )?ft year
about Chingotcague lhoalr inlat. 38. on the
:oaft of Maryland. From tiiefe fails it
ivculd feeni that the Cod-filh is gradually
srogre:: iip; Couth ward, and in time, may,
jerliaps, be caught along the v. hole extent
jf coall belonging to tie United States. It
observed by coallirg ve! lls that Mack
irel are in the fame manner,advancing more
:o the foutlmard than formerly.—We may
(include from hence that the Banks of
Newfoundland are the original habitation
>f the Cod-fifli, from whence, on account
>f their prodigious increase, they are ar
mally pushing out colonies in every direc
ion,where fu'lenancecanpoffibly be found.
.An infinite variety of reports and hear
aysare circulated in the lale foreign pa
>ers relative to the union of powers on the
ontinent againfl: the French revolution,
imong tliefeit is mentioned as a certainty
hat Russia has acceded to the designs of
he German potentates, by becoming a
m mberofthe alliance. Pruilia and Auf
ria are to adopt thefame Cyllem of mea
ures in refpett ro each other, and an im
nenCe combined army was determined up
in, to act the cru'aders against French L:-
.erty. By the best accounts, however, little
>r none of that enthusiasm is to be found a
nong the Coldiery that is commonly a fore
unner of victory. "They are in their hearts
riends tothetaufe of France, and it was
xpefted would desert in valt numbers
he moment they found an opportunity io
o do."
By recent information from Kentuckey,
he'lndians continue to kill people 011 the
rentiers of that country. The m< 'anger
Col. Harding) w ho was lent to the Miamee
owns to peifuacle the Indians to treat,
vas fired upon by them*, and was obl.geil
0 return without ccompliihing the objett
f his million. Three of his attendants
vcre killed.
In Poland they have lately adopted a fa
'itary regulation, not to allow then dead
1 future to be buried within tlr_> walls en
owns, or in churches, where the smell
roceeding from the bodies might either be
i:enlive, or injurious to health ; but to
ave their burying places enclosed at a dil
ance from towns, and in the open air,
'.'here no bad eftefts can pofiibly arise to
he living. \_Lond- paper. ]
The carker worm is making great la
ages among the apple-trees in some parts
>f Mafiachufetts and Connccl'rcut.
Who would have thought (fays a X.Y. pa*
>er)that the tii'eOs of the late misfortunes
if many of out citizens would havebeeufo
ittle felt in general,as they are at present ?
'■carcely any traces of the difalters, except
11 the Cpeculating line, which happened
bine time ago, are now to be seen in the
ommercial fphcre. Trade of every kind
>egins to be carried 011 ag 11 with spirit and
"ucceCs.—The repreCentations which have
ieen made of the situation of New-\ ork,
n consequence of the late speculative fai
ures ,have been very much exaggerated and
allified. The (hock at the time was severe
mt of fliort continuance. Credit is again
ev ived —and prosperity once more approa
:lies in light.
Some nfifunderftandings prevail in New
ifork relative to the late elefl;on of go
ernor and lieut. governor. The great
pieftion is, whether the votes returned
rom Otfego county, he legal or illegal —
The latter was adjudged by a majority of
lie canvaflers, and is remonstrated against
jy the friends of Mr. Jay.
On Saturday laitdied, in this city, Major
"ulleiton. Secretary to the Cincinnati
>f theftate of Pennsylvania.
PRICE or STOCKS.
6 Percents . . • 22f.
3 Per cents . 13f;
Deferred . . . '37?.
Indents .... 1 if
Final Sett. . . • *8/6
1-2 Share Bank U. S. 65 per cent adv.
Whole Shares ditto 17 do. do.
Meteorological Observations.
June, 1792.
D. Hi Bar. Thtr.Wind. W'eatk.
Monday, 11. 6 29. 9 52 N. E Ham.
£1 29. 9 58 do. do.
Tuesday, 12. 6 30. o 56 NE. Fair.
s 30.01 (q do. do;
Wedncfday, 13. 6 30. 1 54 N.N.E. Clcudy.
s 30. 2 70 E. Fair.
Thurjday, 14. 6 30. 1 53 E. M'Jly,
2 30. 1 74 do. Fair.
Friday,. 15, 6 30. o 6i S. E- Fair.
2 30. 1 80 do. do.
Saturday, ib. 6 30. o; Ci S. W. Fair.
2 30. Cr 80 W. Fair,
Sur.uej, 17. 6 30. 02 67 I Cairn. Mijiy.
e 30,0 0 89 jS. W. Fair,AUTHENTIC#
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft Seflion, begun and held at the city ol
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania
on Monday the twenty-fourth of O&ober, one
thousand ieven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT for regulating Proceff'es in the Courts oj
theXJnitcd States, and providing ctmpet:fut iens jet
the Officers of the [aid Courts, and tor Juron
and IVitneJJes.
BE it enaEied by the Senate and House of Re
prejentatives of the United States of America
in Congrejs aJJ'emblcd, That all writs and proccfle*
ifTuing from the supreme or a circuit court, foal;
bear test of the chief jufticc of the fupremecourl
or (if that office shall be vacant) of the a lToci at«
justice nextin precedtncej and all writs and procelfc
es iflu'ng from adiftridt court, shall bear test of tht
judge of such Qourt (or if that office shall be va
cant) of the cleik thereof, which laid writs and
proceflVs (hall be under the leal of the court frotr:
whence they ifTue, and signed by the clerk there
of. The seals shall be provided at the expense oi
the United Siates.
And be it further enabled, That the forms o
writs, executions and other process, except then
Tile and the forms and modes ot' proceeding ir
suits in those of common law shall be the fame a:
are now used in the said couits refpedVively ir
pursuance of the adt entitled, " An act to regu
late process in the courts of the United States,'
in thofc of equity and in those of admiralty ant
maritime jurifditfion according to;the principles
rules and usages which belong to courts of
and to courts ot admiralty itl, edli vely, as contra
distinguished from courts of common law j exeep
JO far as may have b-en provided for by the ad
tocftablifh t'nejudicial courts of the United States
fubjeft however to luch alterations and addition;
as the said courts rcfpe£tively lhull in their difcre
tion deem expedient, or to such regulations as thi
supreme court of the Unitea States shall thint
proper from time to time by rule to prescribe t(
any circu t or diftridt court concerning the fame
Provided, That on judgments in any of the cafe
aforefaid where different kinds of executions an
jlfuable in succession, a capias ad jatisf aciendun
being one, the plaintiff shall have his election t<
take out a capias ad Jathfaciendum in the firil in
itance.
And be it further enacled, That from and afte
the passing of this adt, the fees and compenfition
to the several officers and other persons hercratte
mentioned, shall be as follows ; that is to fa , (<
the mai fhals of the several difhidU of the Unitei
States, forthe service of any writ, warrant, at
tachment or process in chancery, on cach perfoi
named in the fame, two dollars : for his trave
out in serving each writ, warrant, attachment o
process aforefaid cents per mile, to be com
puted from the place of service to tlie court wher
the writ or process shall be returned j and if m< r
persons than one are named therein, the tray
111 all be computed from the court to the place o
service which is mod remote, adding therero th
extra travel necelVary to fcrve it on the other :
Provided, That the fee for travel wheie there i
one person named in luch writ, warrant, attach
ment or procels, fhail in no cafe exceed seven dol
Jars, and when there are more than one, the fe>
for extra travel shall not exceed one dollar abovi
/even dollars for each person. For each bai
bond, fifty cents : for felling goods and velle!
condemned, and receiving and paying th© mone l
three per cent : for every commitment or dif
charge of a piifoner, fifty cents . For lummonin;
witnefles, where he does it, each thirty cents
lor summoning a grand or petit jury, each thre
dollars : Psovided, That in those states wher
jurors by the laws of the Hate are drawn by con
itables or other officers of corporate towns o
places by lot, the marfhais fnall receive for th
use of such conflables or officers the fees allowei
for summoning juries : For attending the fu
preme, circuit or diftridt courts five dollars pe
day, and at the rate of ten cents per mile for hi
expenses and time in travelling from the place o
his abode to either of the said courts . For levy
ing an execution, and for all other services no
herein enumerated, such fees or compensation
as are allowed in the supreme court of the ftati
where the services lhall be rendered : T« tht
clerk of the supreme court of the United States
ten dollars per day for his attendance in court
and for his other services in difeharging the du
ties of his office, double the fees of the clerk o
the supreme court of that state in which the su
preme court of the United States shall be holden
To the clerk of thediftridl and circuit courts
fees in each state refpedtively as are allowed ir
the supreme courts of the fame ; and five dollar
per day for his attendance on any circuit or dif
tridt court, and at the rate of ten cents per mill
jor his expenses and time in travelling from tin
place of his abode to cither of the said courts
And in cafe any clerk of a court of the Unitet
States Hi ail in discharging the duties of his office
perform any kind of fcrvice which is not perform
id by the clerks of thecourtsof the state, and to
which the laws of the state make no allowance,
the court in which luch service shall be renderec
mav allow a rcafonable compensation therefor.—
To each grand and petit juror fifty cents per daj
for attending in court, and for travelling at tht
rate of hve cents per every mile from their respec
tive places of abode to the pla<-.c where the couri
is held, and the like allowance for returning
To witnesses summoned in any of the courts o!
the United States the fame compensations ir
each state refpedVively as are allowed in the su
preme courts of the fame : To the attorney ol
the United States for the diftridt, such fees in
cach state refpe&ivelv as are allowed in the fu
pveine courts of the fame, and also the like
compensation for travelling as is above allowed to
the cLrk of the diftridl and circuit courts.
And be it further cnatted, That the marshal
lhall have the custody of all vefTcls and goods
failed by any officer of the revenue, and shall be
illowed such compenfat! n therefor as the cour
may reasonable : And there lhall be pa:d tc
ihc marflial the amount of the expence for fuel
andles, and other reasonable contingencies thai
may accure in holding the courts within his dii
tridt, and providing tin- books necefiary ro recorc
ihe proceedings thereof : and suchaamour,n r , ai
also the compensations aforelaid to the grand anc
petit jurors,—To the witnefies summoned on thi
part of the United States, to the clerk of the fu
preme court for his attendance, —to the clerks o
the diftridfc and circuit courts for their travelling
nl attendance, —to the attorney of the diltrid
for travelling to court —io the marflial for his at
tendance at court; for summoning grand an<
petit jurors and witnesses in behalf of any prii n
er to be tried for a capital offence j for the main
tenance of pritoners confined in jail for any cri
minal offence, and for the commitment or dil
charge of such prisoner,— and also the legal lee
of the cierk, attorney and marflial, in crimina
prosecutions, fliall be included in the account o
the marfiial ; and the fame having been examin
ed and certified by the court or one of the judge
as it in which the service shall have been rendered
fliall be parted in the usual manner at and th
amount thereof paid our of the trealuiy of th
United States, to the marflial, and by him ihai
be paid over to the perlons entitled to the fame
and the marflial fliall be allowed two and an hal
per ccnt on the amount by him lo paid over to b
charged in his future account.
And be it further enabled, That in every pr
fccution for any fine or forfeiture incurreu unde
any statutes of the United States, it judgment i
rendered againit the defendant he fliall be
:o the payment of colts—and on every convidtio
for any other offence not capital tile court ma
in their discretion award that the defendant ilia
pay the costs of prosecution—And if any inform
er or plaintiff on a penal (tatute to whole lenefi
the plaintiff or any part thereof if recovered i
direiied by law to accrue shall dil'continue hi
suit or prosecution or fliall be non suit in th
fame, or if upon trial a verdidfc fiiail pass f«*r th
defendant, the court fliall award to the d-'fendan
his costs, unless such informer or plaintiff be a
officer of the United States specially authorized r
commence such prosecution, and the court bufon
whom the adtion or information shall be tried
fliall at the trial in open court, certify upon re
cord, that there was reasonable cause lor com
mencing the fame, in which cafe no colts fliall b
adjudged to the defendant.
Ami be it further enattedy That the fees an
compensations to tr.e several officers and person
herein before mentioned, other than those whicl
are above dired»t d to be paid out of the treafur
of the United Srates, lhall be recovered in tik
manner as the fees of the officers of the liates re
fpedlively for like frvices are recovered.
And be it fw thcr enaeicdy That if any office
herein before mentioned, or his deputy, fliall b
reason or colour of his ©ffice wilfully ard cor
ruptly demand and receive any greater fees thai
cnole allowed by this adt, he fliall on convidli i
hereof in any court of the United Scates, forfei
and pay a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars
or be imprisoned not exceeding fix months, at th
lifcretion of the court before whom the convic
tion fliall be.
And be it further evaflfd, That the adt pafle
at the lalt leffion of Congress, entitled, " A
adt to continue in force for a limited time, a
adt passed at the ftrft feffionof Congress, entitled
" An adt to regulate processes in the courts of th
United States j" and alio another adt passed a
the last session of Congress entitled, ({ An adt pro
vicl ng compensations for the officers of the judi
cial courts of the United States and for juror
and witnesses and for other puipofes," be and th
fame are hereby repealed.
And be it further enafted t T\\3it it fliall be thedut
of tne clerk of the fuprcme court of the Unites
States, forthwith to transmit to the clerk of th
several circuit courts the form of a writ of error
to be approved by any two of the judges of the fu
preme court, and it shall be lawful for the clerk
of the said circuit courts to issue writs of error a
greeably to such forms, as nearly as the cafe ma
admit, under the leal cf the laid circuit courts
returnable to the supreme court, in the fame man
ner as the clerk of the supreme court may iffu
such writs, in purluance of the adt, intituled "A
adt to eftabliih the judicial courts of the Unite
States."
And be it further enzfted, That it fliall an
may be lawful for the clerks of the diftridt an
circuit courts, in the absence or in cafe of th
disability of the judges, to take recognizancs o
special bail, dc bene e]J'c t in any adtion dependin
in either of the laid courts, and alio the affida
vits of all surveyors relative to their reports, an
to administer oaths to all perlons identifying pa
pers found on board of vessels or eliewhere, to b
used on trials in admiraltv causes..
And be it further enattedj That in all suits an
adtions in any diltridt court of the United Scates
in which it lhall appeal tlrat the judge of fuel
courtis, any ways, concerned in intereit, or ha
been of counsel for either party, it lhall be the du
tv of such judge on application of either party, t
cause the fadt to be entered on the minutes of th
court, and alio to order an authenticated copy there
of, with all the proceedings in such luit or action
to bz foithwith certified to the next circuit cour
of the diltridt, which circuit court fliall, thereup
>n, cognizance thereof, in the I ke manner
as if it had been oiiginally commenced in tha
court, and fliall proceed to hear and determin th
fame accordingly.
And be it further enabled, That all the rccord
and proceedings of the court of appeals heretofor
appointed, previous to the adoption of the prcfen
constitution, fliall be depolitcd in the office of th.
clerk of the fuprcme court of the United States
who is hereby authorized and directed to give co
pies of all such records and proceedings to any per
lon requiiing and pa)ingfor the lame, in iik..
manner, as copies of the records and other pro
ceedings of the said court are by law diredted tr
be given : which copies fliall have like faith anc
:redit, as all other proceedings of the said court,
Approved by the Prjssjdsnt, May Ith, 1792.
JUST IMPORTED,
From London, Dublin, and Scotland,
A Lars', and ezntral affortmcnt of
B O O K s,
For falc by ROBERT CAMPBELL, No. 547
South Second-Street.
VINER'S general abridgement of law and
equity, alphabetically digested under pro
per titles with notes and references to the whole ;
4 volumes are received. Price to fubfcribcrs 4
dollars per vol. neatly bound.
*#* This work will be comptifed in 24 royal
octavo vols. 8 or more of wh:ch will be published
every year until completed.
Lord Raymond, Douglafs, Vefey, Cowoer,
Strange, Crooke, Ambler, Salkeld, Petre Wil
liams, Durnford and Eaff, Dallas, Comyn r , Bur
rows, Kelyng's and Aitkin's Reports in odlavo—
Hargrave and Butler's Coke upon Littleton,
London and Dublin editions.—Comyn's dgelf ol
the Jaws, 5 vols. Dodtor and Student, or dialogues
between a Dodtor of Divinity and a Student in
the laws of England t.unomus or dialogue;
concerning the laws and constitutions of England.
Fosters crown law———Leach's crown law Gil
bert's practice in common pleas Hinds ami
Harrilons pradtice in chancery—New law gram
mar---Tvlallory's entries, 2 vols Newman's
conveyancing, 6 vols.---W illiams s do. 2 do.
Highmorc 011 bail- — Hatfeli precedents in the
houle of commons—Powel on contrails- -Do.
on powers---Reeves's hiilory of the Englifii law-
New fyltem of pleading---Sheppaid's touch
ftone—Kvd on Awards—Richardson's commor
picas—Travels of Anachaills the younger, ir
Greece, during the middle of tnc 4th century be
fore the chriltim era, 7 vols, with elegant maps.
Cowper's translation of Homer, 2 vols. — Gilles'i
history 01" Greece, 3 vols.---Gibbon's Roman his
tory, 12 vclj. do. do. complete in 6 vols.---
Ruflels history of modern Europe, 5 vols.
Humes's hiltory of England, 8 vols.—Rollins'
ancient history 8 vols. 8 vo. fame book 10 vol:
12 mo Bofwell's life of Dr. Samuel Johnson
with an elegant head—King ol Prutlia's worki
j 3 vols.-- Bruces travels, 6 vols.--Elegant extradii
prose, verse, and epistles—Domestic divinity bj
Knox—Mofli-im's eccleliaftical history, 6 vols.—
Soarne Jenyn's works, 2 vols. Tower's life 01
Frederick the 3d. late King of Prufiia, 2 vols.---
Shakefpeaie's dramatic works complete in on<
vol. Spallanzani's diflertations, relative tc
the natural history of animalj and vegetable*, 5
vols. The European and literary magazine:
for the last 6 months of 1791 The univerfa!
and gentleman's d>. for do. Lately publifliec
Smellies philosophy of natural hi:tory, price 2
dollars, neatly bound.
N B. Country storekeepers may be fuppliec
at the above place with family, common, am
pocket Bibles, Teilaments, Spelling-books,
Watts's Psalms, Hvmns, Playing C;ards l Qu;l!s
Wafers, Sc-aling-Wax, Wiiting-Paper, Blank-
Books, &c. &c.onthe lowcft terms. law
HOWELL's LARGE
MAP of PENNSYLVANIA.
THIS woik is engraved in the mod elegant
flyle, and will be ready for delivery earl)
this summer. It is 63 inches long and 36 in
ches wide, and for the moll part very full ol
work (except some small places of which mate
rials were not to be had) and was wholly corn -
piled from a6lual surveys, acquired at great ex
pence of money, and more than four ycat;
labour, and from its manifeft public utility,
the Legislature has been plealed to grant the
proprietor the sum of three hundred pounds
This map exhibits the Counfy and Townfhif
Divisions, and thofc of the Surveyors DiOri£ls
in the New-Purchase, Donation and Deprecia
tion Lands ; the waters, portages, and the Ca
nal, mountains and valleys, roads, towns, &c.
He thanks the Public for their very libera
fubfeription, and informs them that it is yet kepi
open. He fells his SMALL MAPS, on can
vass, folded and cas'd lor pocket cairiage, ai
10f6, and plain at 8/4.
READING KOWFLLs
No, 83, Njrth Fifth Jfrett.
June 11. law. 6w.
Philadelphia and Shrevvflniry
STAG E,
By the route of Bordentown.
THE fubferibers inform the public, that frorc
and after the third day of June next, (ant
to continue during fummei fcafon) a boa: f'cti
of! from the Cro »ked-Lillet wharf, in Philadel
phia, on Sundays and Thursdays in the month!
of June and August : and on Sundays and Wcd
neldays in the months of July and September, and
proceeds to Bjrdentown.
The next morning comfortable carriages run
from Bordentown and Kdington, in Shiewfljury 5
then meet, and exchange pafTengers at the half
way-houie, known by the name of the Burnt Ta
vern, and return the fame day to Bordentown and
Edington, aforementioned : And on the days fol
lowing the boat f.*ts out from Bordentown to Phi
ladelphia.
The proprietors flatter thcmfclvcs this plan will
particularly accommodate thofc who do not wish
to be troubled with their own horses and carriagca;
and will at the fame time afford them an agreea
ble variety, and make the journey more ealy than
travelling the whole diftante by land.
The Fare from Philadelphia to
Edington, for Pafl'engers, - £.0 18 9
Goods per cwt. - 6
Way pa/lengers and way goods, in proportion.
The public's most obedient, humble servants
JOHN VAN EMBURGH,
DANIEL LOTT.
May 2i(l> I 79 2 - iaw.tf.
*»* Tor fait at this Office., Sermons by
the Rcv'd. Dr. William Linn, of N. York.
Price 5/7 1-2,
TO THK PUBL IC.
T'KE Subjcriber has it in contemplation scon r¥
decline bis prfjent bujincj*—,vmi wiling on
hand a conftderab/e quantity ofjuperjine feccnd and
elafiic cloths y together ivith a • variety oj other arti
cits in his uuay i prop(jeitoJcl rf. em at tkc folL
rei'UC^dprices- VI Z.
Lejl Superfine navy blue 34*,
Ditto, ditto. Scarlet 365.
Common colours juperjine 3 2s.
ElafiicJiripe: 9s.
L'.ndon buff and ivi lie eajfmet s 15Jo.
Dit:r. y coloured do* 15
Torkfoire do. do. 3 3/6 •
Striped toilenets *4*'
Rattinets 3s.
Striped Nankeens 3/4*
A 'variety of ivaijlcoatjbapes proportionally luivp
J ancy buttons and trrr r.do.
Lot.don btjlJilk boje y from 2?jf> to ?./[s.
Ike above goods have been mofily imported from
one of th<• JirJl Mercantile houjes in London, at d
are of an equal quality to any imported into Antr'tj
ca\ they will be fold per piece or J trailer quantity
as may beji juir the purchajers ; by th' publics tncj}
humbleJtrvantf JOHN SHt.f HERD*
No. 3 South Fourth-fireet.
Any person difpufed to purchase the whole
of the above frock, may also have on reifon.;b!e
terms his present dwelling house, together with
heftore, a moie eligible i.tu-ation tor business in
the tailor's line is not to be found in this city.
The advantage of this bufmels being so well elta
bliflied bv the proprietor will be very great, and
from well known fa£ts, needs no com«ment,
A lease of fix jears may be had of the house.
May 14, 2div. tf.
PROPOSALS
For Printing by Subscription,
PUBLIC VE PORTS
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
OF THE
Government oj th United States
CONGRESS,
Commencing with the present Government, and end
ing with the cloje oj the SeJJion oj May 1792.
THIS work is intended to be printed in one
volume o&avo, eftimatedto contain between five
and fix hundred pages, and will be delivered to
fubferibers in boards at One Dollar and a half.
A complete colle&ion of the Reports into a
convenient and portable volume has been lug
gefled to the publishers by several Members of
Congress and other gentlemen, and they are now
determined to proceed 011 with the work, provi
ded a competent number of fublcribers appear
to patronize the undertaking.
Subscriptions are received by CHILDS and
SWAINE, the pub(i(hers, No- 209, Market
!Ircct, Philadelphia, and by the principal Book.-
tellers in the United States.
May 24.
TIIJS DAT ARE PUBLISHED,
[In O&avo —Price 2/9.
the
LAWS of the United States,
Paired at the
First Scflion oj the Second Congress.
PUBLISHED BY AUTHOR ITT.
To which are added the Ratifications of the
Amendments to the Conflitution, by the several
I ratifying States; the Armillice between the Uni
ted States and Great-Britain ; and the Treaty of
Peace and Friendship with the Cherokees, which,
with those in the other ofctavo volume completes
all the exiting treaties.
j Philadelphia, printed by CHILDS 6? SWAINE,
I Printers oj the Laws oj the Unit d States, and
1 jold by them, at their office, No. 209, Market'
Street ; aljo by the principal Bookjellcrs in the
| city.
* # * The Laws are sewed in blue paper, and
arc intended to be bound up with those of the
next feflion, so as to make one volume, com
prising all the Laws palled by the Second Con
gress, when a complete Index will be added tor
both feflions.
The LAWS of the
Three Seflionsof the First Congress,
With a complete Index, in one volume o&avo,
may be had as above.
Philadelphia, May 17th, 1792.
CHESTER TOWN S? BALTIMORE
STAGE S.
THE Eastern-Shore btaje, by way of Chef
tertown to Baltimore, (tarts regularl) from
James Tl.o i.pfon's, Indian Queen, Fourth-ttrecr,
Philadelphia, every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday, mornings, precisely at 7 o'clock, and
on the fame mornings at 4 o'clock, from Mr,
Grant's in Baltimore. The cultivation of ths
country, and goodness of ;he roaJs, together
with the attention that shall be paid by the pro
prietors, will, it is hoped, be a fufticient induce
ment lor a preference being given to this route.
JAMES THQMI'SON,
ROBERT HODGSON,
N. T). Light Waggons for hire by janief
Thomplon, at the Indian Queen.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAINE.
AT THEIR OFFICE, NO. HIGH-STREET
MAR FI TTH-STRE ET,
FHILADUPIIU.