Vol. I-
.AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS '
O F THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft Session, begun and held at the city of
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennfylvan.a
on Monday the twenty-fourth of O&ober, one
thousand ieven hundred and ninety-cwe.
An ACT to provide, for the fettlemeht of the
Claims of Widows and Orphans
barred by the limitations heretofore esta
blished and to regulate the Claims to In
valid Pensions.
BE it enaSed by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States
of America,, in Congress assembled, That
the operation of the resolutions or tre
late Congress of the United States, patt
ed on the second day of November, one
nhoufand seven hundred and eighty-five,
and the twenty-third day of July, one
thousand seven hundred and eighty-se
ven. so far as they have been barred, or
may be construed to bar the claims of
the widow or orphans of any officer oi
the late army, to the seven years half
pay of such officer, (hall, from and after
the palling this ast, be suspended for
and during the term of two years.
And be it further enacled, That any
commissioned officer, not having receiv
ed the commutation of half pay, and any
tion-commiffioned officer, soldier or sea
man, disabled in the actual service of
the United States, during the late war,
by wounds or other known cause, who
did not desert from the said service, shall
be entitled to be placed on the pension
lift of the United States, during life cr
the continuance of such disability, and
shall also be allowed such farther sum
for the arrears of pension, from the time
of such disability, not exceeding the
i*3te of the annual allowance, in conse
quence of his disability, as the circuit
court of the diftrift, in which they ref
peftively retide, may think just. Pro
vided, That in every such cafe, the rules
and regulations following shall be com
plied with ; that is to fay : Fu ft. Eve
ry applicant shall attend the court in
person. except where it shall be certified
by two magistrates that he is unable to
do so, and shall produce to the circuit
court, the following proofs, to wit
A certificate from the commanding of
ficer of the ship, regiment, corps or
company, in which he served, setting
forth his disability, and that he was
thus disabled while in the service of the
United States ; or the affidavits of two
credible witnefTes to the fame effect.—
The affidavits of three reputable free
holders of the-city, town, or county,
in which he resides, ascertaining of
their own knowledge, the mode of life,
employment, labor, or means of sup
port of such applicant, for the last
twelve months.—Secondly. The cir
cuit court, upon receipt of the proofs
aforefaid, shall forthwith proceed to ex
amine into the nature of the wound, or
other cause of disability of such appli
cant, and having ascertained the degree
thereof, shall certify the fame, andtranf
mit the result of their enquiry, in cafe,
in their opinion, the applicant should
be put on the pension-list, to the Secre
tary at War,together with their opinion
in writing, what proportion of the
monthly pay of such applicant will be
equivalent to the degree of disability
ascertained in manner aforefaid.
And be it further enaßed, That the
clerk of the diftrift court, in each dif
trift, shall publish this ast in such man
ner as the judge of the diftrift court
shall think effectual to give general in
formation thereof to the people of the
diftrift, and (hall give like information
of the times and places of holding the
circuit courts in such diftrift. And in
diftrifts wherein a circuit court is not
directed by law to be holden, the judge
of the district court {hall be, and he
hereby is authorized ta axercife all the
By P. FRENEAU: Published Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
THURSDAY, .MARCH 29, 1792.
powers given by this ast to the respec
tive circuit courts. And it shall be the
duty of the judges of the circuit courts
respectively, during the term of two
[ years from the passing of this act, to re
main at ths places where the laid courts
shall be holden, five days at the least,
from the time of opening the sessions
thereof, that persons, disabled as afore
faid, may havefull opportunity to make
their application for the relief propos
ed by this act.
And be it further enaHed, That the Se
cretary at War, upon receipt of the
proofs, certificate andopinion aforefaid,
ihall cause the Fame to be duly filed in
his office, and place the name of such
applicant on tne pension lift of the
United States, in conformity thereto :
Provided always, That in any cafe, where
the said Secretary shall have cause to
lufpeit imposition or mistake, he shall
have power to withhold the name of
such applicant from the pension lift,
and make report of the fame to Con
gress, at their next feflion.
And be it further enacted, That all non
commissioned officers, soldiers and sea
men, disabled in the actual service of the
United States, during the late
whose disability and rate of allowance
have been ascertained, pursuant to the
regulations prescribed by the late Con
gress, and have not applied to be placed
on the pension lift, until after the time)
limited by the ast of Congress for that
purpose, was fnall nowbe pla-j
cedon the penfion-fift, and be entitled!
to demand and receive their refpeftive
pensions, according to the allowances
ascertained as aforefaid, any thing in
this ast, or any ast of the late
to the contrary, nothwirhftanding.
And be it further enaHed, That from;
and after the passing of this ast, no sale, j
transfer or mortgage of the whole or any '<
part of the pension or arrearagesof pen
lion, payable to any non-commissioned
officer, soldier or seamen, before the
fame shall become due, shall be valid.
And every person, claiming such pensi
on or arrears of pension, or any part
thereof, under power of attorney or
substitution, shall, before the fame is
paid, make oath or affirmation before
lome justice of the peace of the place
where the fame is payable, that such
power or substitution is not given by
reason of any transfer of such pension,
or arrears of pension, and any person,
who shall swear or affirm falfely in the
premises, and be thereof convicted. shall
fuffcr, as for wilful and corrupt per
jury.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of the
House of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United States, and President
of the Senate.
Approved, March the twenty-third, 1792
G. Washington, President of the
United States.
nw. •. -
LONDON, Jan. 24.
Political review of affairs abroad.
Besides the very critical ftateof France,
which forms at present the great object
of attention to every speculative politi
cian in Europe, some affairs seem rising
in the north, which, unless speedily
fettled to the content of the different
parties concerned, may bring with them
ample matter for serious difcuflion.
The King of Sweden, brave as his
ancestor the great Guftavus, and un
daunted as him, who was afterwards
styled the "Alexander of the North,"
[Charles XII] by his manceuvering, has
happily brought his affairs to that pass,
that like another (in some people's eyes)
degraded prince, he has been obliged
to call together the states of his king
dom. Whether the issue may be as
dangerous as that of France, or whe
ther the monarch, idolized by his fub
jefts for his valour, shall meet in them
all the fdpport he v/ifhes, remains at
present a question impdflible to be de
terrvned. But when one's own house
is in danger of catching fire, it does not
feein very wife to be running a thou
fan miles, to extinguish or rather blow
up the flames in a neighbour's; and
where innovations have been made by a
monarch in a constitution, when the af
fair '(Vf that monarch come to be dif
treiled, it requires more qualities than
bravery, to keep all quiet. In the cafe
of the Algerines, we fee how easy it
was to kindle a flame, where there was
need. By the fame practical manoeuvres
one might be kindled in any kingdom.
When the last, war broke out between
Ruilia and Sweden, how many persons
bec.vne immediately discontented and
threw off all allegiance to their fove*- 1
reign. 1
Russia having now no competitor for '
the throne in Prince Potemkin, the '
Gre t Duke will certainly, rightfully (
and leaceably succeed to the crown of
that mighty empire. His own good '
qualities merit it ; and his talents for (
mak ; ng those happy over whom he may '
rule, render him a worthy successor to '
the immortal Catharine. There is no 1
one who knows the magnanimity and '
munificence of the last mentioned Prin- '
cess, that would wish her days to be
fhouened one moment. But come the 1
time.when it may s it will not be the
worlc for Old England. The Great !
Duke bears the British much goodwill; '
and iisminifters will not be wanting to 1
uph'-ld him in it.
Poland, which but a short time since, 1
preflnted so pacific an appearance, 1
ieerM at present as if some clouds were '
galifmng in Iter Twe o.' ?
three of her nobles delighted more with
the power of aristocracy, than the fran
chifes lately granted to the people,
have seceded and protested against the '
new constitution ; and if they can meet '
with support in any neighbouring pow- }
ers, are doubtlels ready to throw every
thing in confufion, of those from whom '
they might have looked for aid. Prulfia '
and Vienna have already teftified their 1
consent in the proposed successor to the '
monarch, and the enlargement of the '
privileges of the people. 1
Russia, indeed, withholds her assent ; 1
and where a great power fuppoles her
influence diminished, it is too much the '
Machiavelian doctrine of the times, to 1
oppose all innovations in the former 1
theatre of her influence. Thus Poland, 1
with all thegoodintentionsintheworld, '
may find frefh troubles arise from the
senseless opposition of a few discontent
ed citizens, to the wife measures of her
diet, and the very liberal designs of her
excellent sovereign.
RUSSIA and SWEDEN.
The treaty of mutual guarantee and
defenfive alliance lately concluded be
tween the Empress of Russia and the
King of Sweden, for the protection of
their European dominions, is to conti
nue for eight years.
Should he be attacked by any hostile
power, the Empress engages to assist
him, as soon as poflible after the requi
sition, with 22,000 infantry and 3000
cavalry, to serve wherever he may have
occalion for them. The troops to be
ready in one, two, three, or at mod four
months, fully equipped with arms, pro
visions, &c. she is also tofurnifh eleven
ships of the line and three frigates ; the
firft mounting from 6© to 70, the latter
30 guns each.
The King, in his turn, engages to sup
ply the Empress, when called upon,
with 8000 foot, and 2000 hoi fe, fix fbips
of the line, and two frigates, carrying
the fame metal as those of the Empress.
Feb. 6. The return of the killed and
wounded of his Majesty's troops during
the siege of Bangalore from the sth to
the 22d. of March, and at the battle of
Seringapatam on the isthof May, 1791,
is, according to Lord Cornwallis's
NUMB. 44.
statement, as follows. Two Captains, 3
Lieutenants, l Enlign, 1 sergeant, 1
drummer, 54 rank and file killed—x
Lieutenant Colonel, 3 Captains, 8 Lieu
tenants, 3 Ensigns, 6 lergeants, 6 drum
merSj 211 rank and file wounded— 7
rank and file milling.
The increase to the revenue from du
ties on malt alone, 1a ft year produced
the ium of three hundred thousand
pounds.
Yesterday the petition of the London
buckle trade was presented to the Queen
at the.drawing room, by the lour mem
bers for the city, and very graciously
received. From St. James's, the mem
bers accompanied by a deputation of
the trade, proceeded to Carlton house,
where his Royal Higltnefs, the Prince
of Wales received a petition on the like
occalion, and moll graciously allured
them, that he would do every thing in
his power to promote the manufactures
of this country.
Mrs. Jordan, the celebrated actress
has surrendered to the Duke of Clar
ence, for three thousand guineas down,
and a thousand per annum, during his
life. Report favs, after conlidering
more maturely on the matter, he wish
ed to be off the bargain. Upon this the
fair syren sent him the bottom of a Play-
Bill on which was written, No money
return'd after the curtain is drawn up.
From the enormous price of lugar and
some other Weft-India commodities, it
is ascertained, that the merchants and
planters of Jamaica and other British
lflands in that quarter will be enabled
to pay off the whole of their debt to the
mother country, that has been accumu
lating for many years past.
BRUSSELS, Jan. 16.
The Biftiop of Treves, has fulfilled
what was required of him, conformable
to the rights of nations, that is, he has
complied with the letter of the law,
though perhaps not with its spirit.
The French required that he should
dissipate the armed assemblies of the re
fugees ; he has in consequence made
two regulations ; the latter is mote
complete than the former : It forbids
all military exercises, all recruiting,
the entry of all kinds of ammunition,
arms and artillery ; cantonments are
forbid in the city of Treves, and four
leagues around it. It orders also, that
the emigrants shall not travel nor take
the air in large bodies, and declares,
that all deserters, if apprehended, shall
be conducted out of the country.
The bishop, by means of these regu
lations, infills that he infringes no law
[ nor treaty, and that the refugees in his
estates cannot be confiderifcd but as peac
able travellers and fojourners ; whereas
in fact the only alteration that has taken
place is, the exercises are discontinued,
and that every man is ordered when he
goes out to leave his arms at his lodff
in?s*
i'he aristocrats are not discouraged ;
they fay, that these measures are no
more than prudent till the arrival of
their friends whom they expect very
shortly from Austria, Pruflia, as well
as from Sweden and RufTia, when the
feafonwill permit. Though Frederick.
William signed the treaty of Pilnitz, it
is apprehended that there are but small
hopes of succour from that quarter.
Monlieur is laid to approve highly
the project ofMonf. de Bretuil, for the
eftablilhment of two houses of parlia
ment, as in England.
The million of Monf. de St. Cioix, is
said to be effecting an agreement be
tween the King and Princes, and the
negociations for that purpole advance
fait.
1
%* TliC Report of the Secretary of the
> Trtafury on the Extife Ad, for fate at this
f Office.
, Report of the Secretary of the Treasury
» on a National Btnk.PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRE S S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Saturday,, March 24.
An er.groffed " bil 1, for ascertaining the
bounds of a tract of land purchased by J. C
Simm;," was read a third time, passed, and
sent to the Senate for their concurrence.
An engrofled " bill for finifhing a light
ih'oufe on Bald-Head, at the mouth of Cape
Fe:u\ r'.r, in the ft ate of N- Carolina,'
was also read a third time, passed, and -sent
to the e.iate for their concurrence,--the
blank, for the sum appropriated, being fillet
with four thcufand dollars.
A 1 • b'il "from the Senate) to alter the
time? of holding the Circuit Courts in cer
tain diftfi&s of the United States, and for
other purposes," was re-.d a second time
a'ld ordered for commitment on Monda)
Ties.t.
In committee o p the whole Koufe (Mr.
Seney in the chuir) the " bill fuppiemen
tal to the ast for making further and more
effectual provision for the protection of the
United States," was considered and amend
ed.
The House adopted the amendment, ant
passed the bill, as follows :
" Beit ena&ed, &c. That it {hall be law
ful for the President of the United States
by and with the advice and consent of th<
Senate, to appoint such number of briga
dier generals, as may be conducive to the
good of the public service : Provided the
whole number appointed, or to be appoint
ed, (hall not exceed four."
A memorial from funclry merchants o 1
the city of Philadelphia, importers of drj
goods, petitioning against an en'crea'fe of the
impost duties, and praying that a longei
term may be allowed for the payment o!
the duties, —was referred to the committee
of the whole on the Secretary's report oi
ways and means.
A " bill to extend the time heretofore
granted for the payment of the duties 01
certain teas imported after the 3d day o:
March, 17 -j 1"—was twice read and orderet
for commitment on Weduefday next.
Tiie House aga : n resolved itfelf into ;
committee of the whole—[Mr. Seney ii
the chair] —on the bill, sent from the Se
nate, to establish a mint and regulate the
Coins of the United States ; and havinj
.made one amendment, rose and reportec
the bill, as amended.
The House immediately proceeding tc
coulider the report of tlie am
having amended the amendment, on the
oueftion for adopting it as amended, a divi
lion was called for ; and
The question being firft taken on ftrikinj
oup a clause dire&ing the gold and filvei
coins to be itnprefled on one fide with £
" Representation of the head of the Preli
dent of the United States for the time be
ing, with an inscription expreiling the initia'
or firft letter of his Christian or firft name
and his fur-name at length, the fucceilion o:
the Presidency numerically, and the year oj
the coinage,"—it parted in the affirmative
yeas 26, nays 22.
Yeas— Messrs. Brddwin,Clark,Fitzfimons
Ciles, Gregg, Heifter, Key, Kitchell, Kit
tera, Laurance, Lee, Macon, Madison
Moore, Niles, Page, Seney, f. Smith, Ster
rett, Snmpter, Tredwell, Tucker, Vena
ble, White, Williamfon, Willis.
Na s —Messrs. Barnwell, Benfon, Boudi
not, S.Bourne, B. Bourne, Brown, Gilman,
©oodhue, Hartley, Hillhoufe, Huger, Ja
cobs, Learned, Livermore, Schoonmaker
Sedgwick, W. Smith, Sturges, Sylvester.
Thatcher, Wadfworth, Ward.
The question was then taken on substitu
ting an emblematic figure of liberty, with
an infeription of the word / LIBERTY,' —
and palled also in the affirmative ; yeas 42,
nays 6.
Yeas—Messrs. Baldwin, Barnwell, B.
Bourne, Brown, Clark, Fitzfimons, Giles,
Gilman, Goodhue,Gregg, Hartley, Heifler,
Hiilhoufe, Huger, Jacobs, Key, Kitchell
K;:tera, Laurance, Lee, Madison, Macon,
Moore, Niles, Page, Schoonmaker, Sedg
wick, Seney, J. Smith, W. Smith, Ster
rett, Sturges, Sumpter, Sylvester, Tred
well, Tucker, Venable, Wadfworth,
Ward", White, Williamfon, Willis.
Nays—Messrs. Benfon, Boudinot, S.
Bourne, Learned, Lirermore, Thatcher.
The bill was then ordered for a third
reading on Monday r.ext.
1 he chief objection to having the coins
mirked with the head of the President for
the time being, was, that it favors too much
of monarchy, an ! would ill become the
majesty of an independent people enjoying
a free republican government, thus to idol
ize the features of an individual; and
would besides be holding out an additional
temptation to ambitious men, whose pride
might be flattered by the profpeft of having
t , =ir faces consigned to immortality, in gold
a'id silver.
Those gentlemen, on the other hand, who
coincided in opinion with the Senate,
thought it by no means derogatory to a re
public, to nsve their money itarnped with
he 1" enefs of < Vie.f mr.»jftrate :—that/
jy a-./eeirg with the Seliate, they would
>ive o"Ur President. as well as our coin, e
greater degree of respectability in foreign
:>3inrries, and would pay him a Compliment
which could not give umbrage to any citi
zen of tile United States.
Our present chieff-cipgiftrafe (it was an-
Vered) hasindeed a jult title to every mark
;>f refpett; nor would any objection be
made to stamping his image, as the mark of
reachability, on our coins, provided his
features were forever to be retained. But
the franrers of the bill intended no such
compliment; on the contrary, they had
expressly provided, that his head should, in
the common course of events, make room
in alhort time, for that of—no body knows
whom—a Nero perhaps, a Caligula, or a
Heliogabulus. -
Mr. S. Bourne, from the committee cf
enrollment, preferred the
bill duly and Mr. Speaker signed
the fame. Adjourned.
Monday. March 26.
Mr. Giles laid on the table the following
resolution, declaring at the fame time; that
it was far from his intention to criminate
or reflect upon the character of any person
concerned : —
" Re olved, That the President of the
United States be requested to institute an
enquiry into the causes of the late defeat
of the army under the command of Major
General St. Clair ; and also into the causes
of the detentions or delays, which attended
the money, cloathing, provisions, and-mili
tary stores for the r.fe of the said ahr.y ;
and into such other causes, as may in any
manner have been productive of the laid
defeat,"
The " bill (from the Senate) establishing
a mint, and regulating the coins - of the
United State?," was re:<d a third time, and
pafled, with the amendments, fubftijuting
an emblematical figure of LIBERTY,
the device on one fide of the gold andfilver
coins.
On the paflageof the bill, the yeas were
32. uays 22,
Yeas—Meflrs. Ames, Afhe, Baldwin, Barn
well, Benfon, Boudinot, S. Bourne, B.
Bourne, Brown, Gerry, Gilinan, Goodhue,
Hartley, Heilter, Huger, Key, Kitrera,
Laurance, Learned, Livermore, M'ercrr,
Muhlenberg, Page, Sedgwick, W. Smith,
Sterrett. Sturges. Sylvelter, Vining, Wadl
worth, Ward, Williamlbn.
Nays—Meflrs. Clarke, Fintlley," 'riles,
Gordon, Grove, Hillhoufe, Jacob:-, J itch
ell, Lee, Macon, Madison, Moore, s ! Hes,
Parker, Schoonmaker, Seney, I. '.'vth,
■ nmpter, Thatcher, Tredwell, Viable,
W mte.
The bill and the amendments were then
sent to the Senate, and, in some time after,
A meflage from the Senate was delivered
by Mr. Secretary Otis, notifying that they
had conlidtred the said amendment, and
disagreed to it.
The House proceeding to consider the
said meflage,
A motion was made to recede from the
amendment.
Hereupon ensued a debate of considera
ble length, in which the advocates of the
Prefioent's Head used a variety of -argu
ments, some of a serious nature, others al
together ludicrous ; and took much pains
to convince gentlemen of oppoftte fenti
inents, that the point in dispute was a mere
bagatelle, and hardly worth contending a
bout :—whilft, on the other hand, it was
strenuously maintained, that, trifling as the
matter might be in appearance, it was ne
vertheless worthy of serious attention, be
ing an insidious attack on RepublLanifin,
calculated to sap the principles of the peo
ple, and gradually to reconcile them to
monarchy.
On the question for receding, the Yeas
24, the Nays 32.
Yeas—Meflrs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon,
Boudinot, S. Bourne, B. Bourne, I'stzfi
mons, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Hartley,
Huger, Hillhoufe, Jacobs, Kittera. Learn
ed, Livermore, Sedgwick, W. Smith, Stur
ges, Sylvester, Thatcher, Wadfworth,
Ward— 24.
Nays—Meflrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Brown,
( larke, Giles, Gordon, Gregg, Griffin,
Grove, Heilter, Key, Kitchell, Lee, Ma
con, Madison, Mercer, Moore, Murray,
Niles, Page, Parker, Seney, J. Smith, I.
Smith, Steele, Sumpter, Tred well, Tuck
er, Venable, Vining, White, William
fon—32.
A motion being then made, that the
House (liould adhere to their amendment,-
the question was carried in the affirmative.
Mr. Secretary Otis informed the House
that the Senate had agreed to the proposed
amendment to the Bill refpeiting the Bri
gadier Generals.
The committee of enrollment reported,
that they had this day presented the Repre
sentation Bill to the Prefidentof the Unit
ed States, for his approbation.
Pursuant to the order of the day, the
House again resolved itfelf into a commit
:eeofthe whole, (Mr. Seney in the chair)
in the report of the select committee, on
:he Memorial of the Directors of the Ohio
Company ; and after some debate, thecom
nittee rose, and reported sundry refoluti
_l
atis, one of which \va« re'efted by the
Ht>ufe, and the others adopted, as follow s :
" Rtfclved,
" That a title ough. . - be made to the
Ohio Company, for so much of the land.-
in their contrasts, as have actually
paid for
" That in addition to the above quanti
ty of land, there be a'ifo granted to the (aid
Company 214,285 acres (being the propor
tion, they were, by a resolve of Congress.
autborifed to pay in army rights) upon their
delivering to the Secretary of the Trefill -
ry, army rights fufficierrt for the pur
pose —
" That there be also granted to the said
Company, in addition to the aforemention
ed tracts, itoroo acrer,, to make tgocc
ioco lots of 100 acres each, appropriated
by the Company as bounties to fi;cii a
might become settlers within the said pur
chase ; upon condition nevertheless, that
the said company fliall make good fuel:
bounties as well to future settlers, as tc
those already fettled
" That a title be made to the said compa
ny, for the remainder of the said 15000 C'
acres contrasted for, upon their paying intt
the trcafury of the United States, a sum no!
exceeding **** Cent per .acre for the
fame, with interest from the palling of an
act for that pnrpofe,"
A feleft commit! ee was appointed tc
bring iu a bill or bills, in conformity tc
thele resolutions.
Adjourned.
The following resolutions were proposer
by Mr. Fitziimnns 011 Thursday la.it.:
Resolved, That it is the opinion of this
committee.
ilt THAT the term for receiving or
loan, that part of the domestic debt of the
United States whicli yet remains uhfubferi
bed, be extended to the firft day Of Sep
tember next, on the fame terms as was
provided by the ast making provision fbi
the public debt of the United States.
2d. That provision ought tobeinadefoi
payment of the interest on the unfubferi
bed part of the domestic debt of the United
States, to the firft day of January, 1793, 01:
like terms as was pro»ided by,the ast a
forefaid.
3d. That the holders of loan-ofrire cer
tificates, ifl'ued between the firft day o:
September, 1777, and firft day of March,
1778, be entitled to receive interest there
on, at the fame rate as other non-fubferib
iug creditors of the United States without
being obliged to exchange firch certificates.
4th. That the'term for receiving on loan
part of the debt of the individual states.
affumc-d by the United States, yet unfub
fcribed, be extended to the firft day o!
September next, on the Tame terms as pro
vided by the act making provision for the
public debt.
sth. That a fubferiptiou for a farthei
loan in the debts of the individual states
be opened and continued to the firft day o:
Septembtr next, not to excced in the
whole millions of dollars, ir
the proportions following, that is to fay :
In the debt of New Hampfhtre,
' MafTachufetts,
Rhode Island,
Co.ineftkut,
New York,
New Jersey,
Virginia,
North Carolina,
South Carolina,
Georgia,
Provided, That the interest on such loan flial
not be payable before the — day of :
And provided, That when the sum. to be
assumed for any state, fliall not be ftibfcri
bed by the holders of any of the evidence
in which the fame is made receivable, th.:
state fliall not be entitled to receive interefl
on the lefidue,
6th. That the fubfeription- to the afore
faid loans in state debt, be p iyaWe in fuc!:
certificates, bills, notes, and evidences o!
debt whatsoever. as-fliall have been ifiued
by the refpeftive states and by the fevera!
commissioners of loans of the United St ites.
ei< account of the excefles of the ftunsfub
fcribed in certain states bevond the funis
heretofore aflumed for such ftate3. Pro
vided, That no such certificates, bills,
note s or evidences of debts of the refpeft
ive states ihall be receivable upon the said
loan which, from the tenor thereof, from
any public record, ast or document, flial!
appear or can be ascertained to ha\ e been
issued for purpol'es in elative to compensa
tions fnd expenditures for services or sup
plies towards the profecut'fon , of the late
war and the tlefence of the United States,
oroffome part thereof during the fame ;
but this lhall not be conftrueei to exclude
any certificate, bill, note or evidence ol
debt which fliall have been ifl'ued in lieu or
on account of any other certificate, bill,
note or evidence of debt which was itleli
ifl'ued, in relation to such compeufations
and expenditures.
7th. That the debt due to certain foreigr
officers, the interest whereon is payable ai
the house of Grand, in Paris, be difchargec
out of any monies obtained on loan, by the
President of the United States, in virtue oi
the making provision for the publii
debt; —which may now be unappropria
ted,
0 ~. T; ->£ t'tf* 'rfere'! c* <>f t T >»
d omeftic debt as has been or may be pur -
chafed for the United States, or its fhail be
P•. d into the tre .(try, and :6 much of jhe
iuur appropriated for the payment of the
interest on the foreign and ciomeUic debt
as fhall'be over and above whs t may be fu. T -
ficient for the payment of fuc& interel% Jha'.l
be appropriated in the ftrft .place, to the
purctufe of the part of thi; public debt,
which bears an interest of 3 per ce;.t, pe'r
ann. . And the part of the laid debt, 1 ?
interest whereof is deferred until the fid
fund, with such additions as taay be nzu-w .
to it, il all amount to two per centum <: f "
the public debt, bearing a present inte. _*ii
.offix-per cent, per ann. until tht whole
shall be redeemed. And thenceforth to be
applied to the purchase or redemption of
whatever part of the public debt may re
main undischarged, until the whole (hall
be extinguifiied. The said funcjs to be ap
plied to the pnrpofes aforefaid, by the tom
miflioaers hereafter mentioned, under the
approbation of the Preiident ofthe United |
States.
9th. That
be comm'flioners for the pnrpofes afore
faid ; and that a precise account of all the
debts redeemed, and of all purchases by
them made, be laid .before the legif ; ture
within months after its Srit jfleetiii"
in every year.
.'——ST' ~ —1 X.
For the NAT 10 NAt GAZETTE.
PROPERTY.
r I ""HIS term in its particular application
X means that dominion which one
man claims and exercises over the external
things of the world, in exclulion of every
other individual."
In its larger and jufter meaning.it em
braces every, to which a man may at-
value-, and have a right; and which
leave's to every one elj'e the-like advantage.
In the former sense, a man's land, or
merchandize, or money is called his pro
perty.
Ia the latter-sense, a man has a property
in his opinions and the free communication
of the 111.
He has a property of peculiar value in
his religious opinion s and 111 the profefiion
and practice di£lated by them.
He has a property very dear to him in
the fjfety and liberty of his person.
He has an equal property in the free life
of his facultie and free choice of the ob
jefls on which to employ them.
In a word, as a man is said to have a right
to his property, he may be equally said to
have a property in his lights.
Where an excess of power prevails, pro
perty of no fort is duly refpefted. No man
is fafe in his opinions, his person, his facul
ties, t>r his poflelfions.
Where there is an excess of liberty, the
effect is the fame, tho' from an opposite
canfe.
Government is instituted to protest pro
perty of every fort; as well that which lies
in the various rights of individuals, as that
which the term particularly exprelles.
This being the end of government, that a
lone. is a jvjl government, which impartially
secures to every man, whatever is his ozun.
According to this standard of merit, the
praise of affording a just iecurity to pro
perty, Ihould be sparingly bestowed on a
government which, how ever scrupulously
guarding the polfeffions of individuals, does
not protest them in the enjoyment and
communication of their opinions, in which
they have an equal, and in .the estimation
ofi'ome, a more valuable property.
More sparingly fbotiid this praise be al
lowed to a government, where a man's re
ligious l ight.: are violated by penalties, or
fettered by tests, or taxed by a hierarchy.
Conscience is the mod sacred of all proper
ty ; other property depend ng in part on
politive law, the exercise of that, being a
natural and unalienable right. To guard
a man's house as his castle, to pay public
and enforce private debts with the moll
exact faith, can give 110 title to invade a
man's conscience which is more sacred ihan
his castle. or to with'.old from it that debt
of protection, for which the public faith it
pledged, by the very nature and original
conditions of thefocial part.
That is not a just government, nor is
property secure under it, where the pro
perty which a man has in his personal fafe
ty and personal liberty, is violated by arbi
trary seizures of one class of citizens for
the service of the reft. A magistrate is
suing his warrants to a press gang, would
be in his proper "functions in Turkey or
Indoftan, under appellations proverbial of
the rnoft compleat despotism.
That is not a just government, nor is
property secure under it, where arbitrary
reftriftions, exemptions, and monopolies
deny to part of its citizens that free use of
their faculties, and free choice of their oc
cupations, which not only constitute their
property in the general sense of the word ;
but are the means of acquiring property
ftriclly so called. What must be the spirit
of legislation where a manufacturer of lin
en cloth-is forbidden to bury his own child
in a linen shroud, in order to favour hur pV' bo"V who rnTli' n : c ■ • '! clotlr,
where the msiiufafiurr-r and wearer ot
woolen cloth are forbidden the cecon
orrcal life of buttons ot that uritjrrinl, in
favor of the of biiiions of
olher material !
A just security to property is not »,Tord
ed by that government, nrder v. hn n une
qual taxes oppress one species o! property
and reward another fppues : V.'here arbi
trary taxe- invade the domeftrc faicluaries
of the r'..h, and excefiive taxes grind the
face - trie poor where the ke :nnefa and
i o-npetitiin? of want are deemed an infuf
ficient ipur to labor, and taxes are again
sriplled* by an unfeeling policy., as another
fpv'ir ; in violation of that sacred property,
which Heaven, in decreeing man to earn
Ills bread by thefweat of his brow, kindly
rcferved to him, in the small repose that
cr. .hi be spared from the supply of his ne
ceiTi~ies. .
If there be a government then .wh'ch
prides itfelf in maintaining the inviol a'oi-
J litv of property ; which pov des tint none
fhal! be taken dnctiy even for pubhc tile
without indemnification to the owner, and
vet dire&lv violates the property which indi
viduals have in their opinions, their religi
on, their persons, and tluir faculties ; nay
more, which indirtßly violates their proper
ty, in their a final poifeilion;, in the labor
t.t acquires their daily fubliftente. and in
the hallowed refnnant of time which ought
to relieve their fatigues and soothe their
cares, the influence wi'l have been antici
pated, that such a government is not a pat
tern for ihe United States.
If the United States mean to obtain or
d.'serve the full praife'due to wife and just
governments, they will equally reipect the
1-gilts of property, and the property in
rights : they will -rival the government
th?t most sacredly guards the former ; and
b" repelling its example in violating the
latter, will make their.feiyes a pattern to
tiiat and all other governments.
March 27.
PHILA DELPHI A.
March 29, 1792.
We have authority to assure the public
that a loan of three millions of guilders
.for accou nof the United States, ha . been
« te-ted atfonrper cenfinterell, in the city
of. A rnfterd ;n.
The Gm 1 Jury ox the county of Chat
ham, Georgia, have formally returned
thanks to the Hon. James Jackson, Esquire,
for his patriotic exertions in bringing to
vie - certain mm-practices at a late election
in the lower dittnct of that Hate, for a re
presentative to Congress.
A meeting of the New-York merchants
and dealers in flocks was held at Corre's
Hotel, in that city, 011 the 21 ft instant. when
they came to a resolution, that after the
21ft of April next, they will not attend any
sale of Cocks at public auction.
A treaty ofcommerce hasbeen concluded
between the Turks and the kingdom of Po
land, in which the Polanders are allowed
the free navigation of the Black Sea.
The ravages and havoc of the insurgents
in St. Domu .ro, have raised sugar to such
an enormous p.ice in France, that mobs
throughout Paris have been the conse
quence ; who, at least, make this the often
f ble cause of their riots. Through the ex
ertions of the national guards and civil au
thority of the city, little mifchief had been
done when the last accounts came away.
The apforticnm'nt (as the Senate are pler'f
ed to call it) by which the representation is
to be randomed out among the several
slates, is prettv much like the apportion
ment- of a balket of hickory nuts among a
parcel of school-boys — byjcramble—in which
the strongest are sure to get more than their
own share.
M.Priflot de Warville, a literary French
man, has publifned at Paris a fine elogium
of the old Entdifh republicans. If he had
recurred to h ftoric facfs, he would not
have been so profufe in their praises. Dal
rymple, a learned Scots historian, in his
hijlorical memoirs of Great Britain, has incon
teitibly p. oved that the famous republican
Sidney (to mention no more) was in the pay
of the Cardinal Richelieu, to foment dif
' tr.rbances in England, to the prejudice of
the monarchy.
On Friday last arrived in this port, in
fifteen days from Cape Francois,the French
Ihip of war La Moselle, Monsieur Ferrarie,
commander—(he is to load with flour and
return immediately.
The most recent French prints fay, that
the Emperor does not appear at all sanguine
in * favor of the emigrants from France,
whom he has ftriftly prohibited from alfem
bling in armed bodies in any part of his do
minions. They have been obliged to quit
Coblentz, and every other part of the elec
torate of Treves, not from a-nv ill will of
the elector to their cause, but out of fear of
feeling the resentment of France. The
elector of Mentz has treated them in the
fame manner. The prince of Con'de, with
a body of 25C0 adherents took refuge at or
l'ear Strafluirg but the cardinal de Rohan,
:o whom the place belongs, found hhcfelt'
under a neceflity of giving orders to ulipene
therii.
A bill h now pending before the
'ure of the state of New-York for eltabiifh
iiig two companies ; one for opening a lock
navigation from the fiigh'pft unimproved
navigable part of Kudfon's river to lake
Dntarrio and the Seneca lake,the other from
t' e higiielt (lavigabie part of Hiidfon's river
o lake Champia n. The capital flock of
each company is proposed to confili of one
thoufend lharesof twenty-live dollars each.
The debts of the present duke of Orig
ins (firft prince of the kloed, in France) are
aid to be immense ; and the number of hi*
creditors is fixed at two thousand fight
lundred and eleven : On a late occasion his
:reditors demanded an interview with the
hike, to which he afientfed, and agreed to
neet them in a body. In former meeting'
hey had constantly made it a point to take
>ff their hats when the duke approached.
4t the last mentioned, upon motion of the
nine pal creditor, (hey refufed to do him
hat honor, but as he came into the room,
at down univerfaiJy chapeau a la tcte.
The Indian chief , now in this capital,
i&ve made their visit hither (it is laid) in
:onfequence of an invitation by CoK Pick
ling. Superintendant of Indian artairs, on
jehalf of the President of the Uirted
•■tates. The ob;< of this visit Is said to
tie a confirmation of former treaties, and
the promotion of peace and a good under
tanding between the wh res and the Indi
an tribes of the five cations.— The chiefs
ire of the following tribes, r. S'.necas, fix
warriors—2. Snipe tribe, eight warriors.—
5. Wolf tribe, leven warriors. —4. Beaver
tribe, eight warriors. 5. Cayugas, two war
"iors. — 0. Oriondagoes, fix warriors. —7.
Jneidas, eight warriors. —8. Tufcareras, three
warriors. —9 Stockbridgc, (branch °r the
Wolf tribe) one warrior.—ln the whole,
4.9, under the direction of Doctor Samuel
Kirkland, Indian mifllonary.
The state of New-Yoik fcems more intent
han ever upon opening their northern and
lorth-weflem navigation to communicate with
akes Champlaine, Ontario, Seneca, &c. by
means of the Hudson. The western company
ire to begin their woiks at Schenetlady upon-the
Vlohaw k river. The northern navigation is 10
:ommence at Troy, (ix miles above Albany,
he extremity of the present sloop navigation;
ind the channel of the Kadfon to Lanfinjjburgh
sto be deepened at leaf! two feet- The canals
ire to be calculated to carry boats drawing two
eet and an half water, which is equal to about
en tons burthen in boats of the flat model,—
Fiom the geographical flaiements that have beer
made, every natural advantage seems to be in
r avor of New-York ; and the projetfors en
tertain no doubt of their success in extending
heir inland navigation to lake Superior, providec
the public attention can be turned to promotf
the improvements pecefl'ary, and eflablifn the
Funds, that mull give life and energy to the un
dertaking.
The French frigate, La Mofclle, that arrived
bere on Fridav lall (commanded by captain Fer
rarie, lieutenant in thi- navy of France) left the
Cape the 6th of March. Six thouland troop:
bad then arrived, but these were judged inef
ficient to recover the ifiahd (peedlly. The na
tional civil commiffior.eis had sent an urgent de
mand to France for fouiteen ihoufand more,
which, in addition to the 6 00 already arrivec
it was thought woa'.d be iullv fuflicient to re
duce the revolters to inllant lubmilfion.
A letter from Fort-Wafiiington, of Feb. 1,5
mentions the imprudent excui lion of luveral of
ficers and soldiers from Fort-Jt fferfon, during
which, although the dillance they rambled aid
not exceed half a mile, their retreat was cut otl
by a party of Indians. They all, however, gbt
back, except two (Mr. Shaylor and commissary
Mason) who were killed and fcalpcd, Capt,
Shaylor was*wounded in the back with an arrow.
The legislature of the fiate ol IVnnfylvania
resolved, on Saturday lall, to close their fef
lion on Monday, the second day of Apri! N
Official accounts have been received of Co',
Wilkirifon's expedition to bury the dead, on (he
field of action with the Indians the 4th of Nqv
last. The Col. marched irom Fort-Wafhina
ton Jan. 25, with two companies of the fcconr
regiment and 130 volunteer militia cavaliy. Oi
the 30th they reached Fort-Jefferfon, near 7c
miles difiant, having been much impeded bv
snow two feet deep. On Feb. 3d they left Fort
Jefferfon : the path proving intolerably bad, the
infantry were soon after ordered to te:urn tc
Fort-\Va(hingfon, and the Col. with the volun
teer cavalry piocteded on, and arrived at the
place of aflion the next day at ten o'clock, 29
miles. The Inow was here better than a fool
md a half deep on a level. All the cannon carrio
les, except three, were unfit for service; 011 one
}f which a four pounder continued mounted ;
his was the only one that could be dilcovered,
he reft having probably been either buried,
tarried off, or thrown into a creek hard bv,
which was frozen over: the damaged carriages,
ind four pounder, a howitz, and fomeiron, were
tarried to Fort Jefferfon on sleds; to which
dace the partv relumed on the sth. —Not a tree
fay these accounts) or a bush, or fcarcelv a
wig, could be found on the left, between the
ines of the army, which had not been market
>y a ball.
The propofiiion lhat the del atcS of the Senate
of the United States fliouM be public, was ne
gatived in the Senate, on Monday lafl, by a ma
jOrity of nine.
On Monday iift the Chiefs and Warriors of
the Five Naiions aflemhled at the 11-. te-houle,
and were welcomed to the city of Philadelphia,
in an address delivered by the Governor. —
Three of the Chiefs made a geneial acknow
ledgment for the 'cordial reception which they
had experienced, but poflponed their formal
answer till another opportunity. The rootn in
which they afiembled, was mentioned as the
ancient council chamber in which their ances
tors, and ours, had often met to bnghten the
chain ol frictidlhip ; and this circumflanre, to
gether with-the pretence of a great part of the
beauty of the city, hid an evident etfef.t upon
the feelings oi th» Indians, and seemed, particu
larly, to embanafs the elocution of the Far
mer's Brother. The following is a copy of the
Governor's address.
Cx! iefs and Warriors of the 'Five Nations!
Brothers !
latnh.ppyin reccivng your visit; and, as
Governor of the Hate of Pennlylvania, in giving
yob a cordial welcome to this city.
Brothers !
Nothing contributes more to flrengthen and
prcferve the fiiendlhip of nations, as well as of
individuals, than a free and constant intercom fe ;
and I hope, that the good understanding, which
has hitherto subsisted between your nations and
Pennlylvania, will, by such means, be rendered
as beneficial and as falling as the fun.
Brothers!
My plealure in feeing you here is greatly in
crealed, by comparing the confidence and at
tachment, which are thewn in your visit, with
the uniiappv spirit of discord, by which some
western Indians are atluated.
Brothers !
In this very bouse your fathers and the go
vernors of Pennsylvania haveoftcn alTembled, to
cxprefs their reaard lor each other, and to blight
en the chain of fuendfiiip.
Brothers 1
It must be pleasing to us to. imitate so good
an example ; while, as inhabitants of the lame
country, it will always be our mterell to pre
serve inviolate those bonds of faith and honor,
by which our anceflors were united.
Brothers !
Y„„ know that tlie people of Pennfylvnnia
fppSder war as an enemy to the happiness of
race, and peace as a source of vari
ous ,blessings. You will, therefore, believe,
tfi.it we sincerely deplore the calamities which
are felt by both 'he parties engaged in the pre
lent confliil; and are desirous to behold every
caule of hollility and resentment done away.
Brothers !
You are come to lifien lo the councils of the
great Father of the union ; let the truths which
he w'ill unfold make a deep~impreffion on your
minds, rnd induce you to believe that the citizens
of the United States ate ftronsjy disposed to
piomoie the happiness of all theirlndian brethren.
Brothers 1
Once more I bid you welcome: The Prefi
deht, whose province it is to negociate and con
clude treaties, has directed his officers to provide
fervour accommodation, comfort', and fuppo'rt,
while you remain among us ; but I (hall, like
wise, be happy to teftify my efieem for your
nations, by every mark of attention, which it is
in my power to bellow.
Brothers !
I know the kindness with which you treat the
Grangers that visit your countiy ; and it is my
sincere wish, that, when you leturn to your fa
milies, von may be able to allure them, that
virtues of friendlhip and hospitality are alfoprac
tifed by the citizens of Pennlylvania.
(From a New-York paper)
To the Holders of engagements under thi Signature
of the StibfcriiKr.
New-York Prifori, March 24, i7<)2-
IT is with regret that the ftfbfcriber
finds himfelf difiippolnted in bringing f< r
ward to his creditor, on this day, such
fpecific propositions for the ultimate re
demption of his debts, as he had once rea
son to expect.
At a meeting of a number of gentlemen
(all of whom ftiled theml'elve- his friends,
amongst whom some were real'y so) it was
thought advifeable to postpone the publica
tion of the plan he had in view, till it was
fuppbrted by them in such a manner as
they conceived most likely to ensure suc
cess.
But (the causes of such change it is not
necefTary to detail) the malice of open e
nemies and- the insidious insinuations of
pretended friends, have chilled the firft
glow of benevolence ; and left to the sub
scriber the guardianship of his own fame,
and that of the interefl of all his creditors.
A sacred trull 1 which the fubferiber
pledges himfelf to discharge with fidelity
and honor.
In this view it is proposed by him as fol
lows:
ill. That he will within nine months,
computed from the present date (or soon
er, if possible ) make a settlement of all his
concerns, point out the sources and amount
of his lofles, and conflitute an adequate
fund for the ultimate redemption of the
prii cipal and legal interell: of all his debts.
2d. That this fund fiiall be so formed as
not to place it within his own reach, to di :
verjt it from the objects of its deftinativn.
3d. That he will imk.-? | r6mp* "r
---•angements for the reimbursement in t'i -
lirft inOance, of all advances nrvde by dT-
Lrelied widow , Or orphan , mechanic and
tradefme.i, to whom anv confiderabte de
lay would opp'-i.te as ruin.
4th. That till ihealtove objects are ef- .
fee ted the watls of a prison fliall fecttre
:hat confidence, which, he feels, might have
b?en placed in hi" honor.
sth. That, truHini; to time and a consci
ence void of intended injury for juftifica
:ion, he at pteTent leaves to his enemies the
iruel triumph of fpcrting over his afflitti
3ns, and to a generous people who may
lilt"he mindful of his public and private
"ervices, the protection of a virtuou3 wife
?.nd ifindccnt family.
Wm. DUER.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
\7f 7"E were advised upon the coit-
V s meiicement of the present govern
ment, that the ViccPrefident had adopted
i rule of conduct for himfelf, in ihe discharge
as the duties of his office, highly deserving the
Hation he fills, and the nature of the trull repo
sed in him by the public. That in cases where
the Senate should be equally divided, upon a Mil
which had palled the House of Representatives,
he would vote for the bill. This determination
was thought wife and jofl, because upon-the per
manent Icale of the government it would be
equal, one while favoiable to one interest,
mother to some other. And the peculiarity of
fiis office, being the servant of the union, fuj ;ell
:d the necessity of some rule, for othervtife l;is
feelings might occafionaily bias his judgment,
andin the conflict of contending intertills, make
utn degenerate into the reprei'entative of some
Hate, and thu s eventually become the mere crea-.
:ure of a party.
The public would be grrtified by infor
mation from that honorable gentleman,
A'hether such rule was ever adopted, and
f so, upon what principle he jultifies its vi
olation, o the representation bill ; for by
:lte proceedings of the Senate which have
jeen publiilied, it appears that upon several
livilioiis oil that interelting question, he in
variably departed from it, voting upon ail
nccafions against the House of Reprefenta
:ives. As 'tis of importance that the con
3uft of an officer in this high ftatio-i, ihould
appear irreproachable before the public,
it is hoped such explanation may be given,
is will fatisfy even the molt scrupulous, of
the purity of his motives.
Whatever objections may have been
heretofore entertained against his political
principles, yet none have been urged against
bis morals. The public have therefore fo
laceci themselves under the elief, that al
though he might in the fervor of his heart
wilh a government of a different (lamp,
from that which binds together in :he bonds
of peace, the freemen of America, he
would notwithstanding faithful y execute
the portion which had been allotted him,
of the duties of the present one.
March 28. VALERIUS.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Occasioned by the Debate of this day, in the House
of Reprcfntatives, On the Amendment propofd
by Mr. Key to the Bill for efaklfhing a
Mint, whiek originated m the Senate.
CAN wits or serious (ages fay,
Why Cor<rrefs ffiould re.fuie that Head
A place upon their coin this day,
O'er which the wotid hath laurels spread ?
Yes ; Liberty, celeflial Maid,
By whom ?ts right to crown was given,
The eager hands of Congrcfs (laid ;
And claim'd that place, as fet.t by heav'n.
1 Shall WASHINGTON my fav'rite Child,
Be rank'd 'mongfl haughty kings, (he cry'd ;
' Of manners pure, aflettions inild,
'• For wild ambition bedecry'd ?
" Or shall each vile fuccefTor {hare
" That honor which you think his due ?
" Or granting this were right, who dare
" This path of monarchies purfuc ?
" Becapfc a sycophantic race
" Woifhip'cf in every form their kings ;
" And on their coins to their disgrace,
" Plac'dthem if wife, or filly .things ;
" Because (for this you have been tola)
" Their lands, their lives were not their own,
" Of course their silver and their gold
" Were his who fat upon iheir throne.
" Shall sons of this enlighten'd land,
" Neglecting thus their sacred right,
" As'if not yet they understand
" Why heaven has favoi'd them in fight,
" Thus madly mimick thoughtless tools ?
" Let buds, let monuments arise
" ToWafhington ! not like those fools
" On coins he'll flay; I'll bear him.'hove the
" skies.
" My image place upon each piece
" His, and his virtues in your brcaft
" There you'll excell e'en Rome and Greece,"
" By all my fav'rite sons careft.
Phila. March 26.
*** In our paper of the sad jnR. in the piece
signed Lucius, in the second column of the third
page, line 54 Tor TcguUtingread equolizyi^.Receipt to make an ECHO Writer.
TWO bu(Tiel» of meal * and three gallons o
water,
. (Rain-water or river is held to be bess)
Thegu ts of a swine just warm from the /laughter
And a pumpkin boil'd uy with a gallon of yeft
Six quarts of strong birgo, that stinks from the still
. A jill of molasses, and fwicheM three pints,
With malice and scandal—as much as you will—
And a quantum of bear*s-greafe, to fupplc th<
joints :
Old Mid as's ears, an£ the sweatings of brass,
The tongue of a goose, and the hu/k of an onion
The liquor chills in the hoof of an ass,
Some 'JtrftSyjligkt-banded from Pope or from
Bunyan
Work these up together, and Jet them ferment,
in the space of a day thz. farrago will rife j
light more /nuft elapse, and tne eightn bein|
fp^nt,
On the ninth the spruce puppy will open hi
eyes.
He'll then be completed for-epic or lyric f
To plunder from Butler, and call it his own,
To feribble on dunces forrte dull panegyric,
Or whine out his poems in forrowful tone :
<XZe'll then be completed', to publi/h his joking*,
To furbifli up pialins', or to cobble damn*d ftuff
In poems call'd bckos, with pitiful croakings,
To fnuffle out lies, and expire in a fnuff.
March 27. eji.
* Indian-corn-meal is here meant.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Mr. Frkneau,
A SHORT piece of philofophieal d>fquifition
extracted from the manuscript of a late tra
■veller, appeared in your paper of the 22d instant
on which I wish to make a few remarks of a phi
lofophica) kind. It is, no doubt, the province o
philosophy to ascertain faCts, and to make indue
tions from them. The inductions, however, mul
not only be fairly made, but (hown to be unavoid
able and supported by actual experiment, befori
they can claim to be considered iri any other ligh
than that of hypothecs or conjecture, which ii
regard to the operations of nature is almost alwav
erroneous. Now, the author of the extract ii
question, appears to me to have made some indue,
tions from the faCts which he records, that are ft
far from being unavoidable or supported by expe
riment, that they may be /hown to be inconfiften
both with probability and with fa£t. Speaking o
£he pyramids of earthy near the falls of St. An
thony, he fays 5 " they were from thirty to fe
venty, and even eighty feet, in height j" and ther
adds j (( In digging horizontally into several o
these pyramids, a little above the base we general
Jy found a uratum of white substance, fomethinj
like mtiift lime, and glutinous withal—l had ever;
reason to believe this consolidated chalky sub
ftaii'ce ta be the remains of lfceletons, buried per
haps two hundred centuries ago, and converted b
the operation* of the elements into their prefen
state.*' That the white substance, here deftribed
■was formed from the materials ana by the procef
•which the author mentions, I am not disposed t>
deny. But in aligning a space of time for th
£iirpofr, he expresses, in my apprehension, as crud.
and a thought, as can easily b<
imagined. It is a known and indifputabl
fa#, that all composed of earth, ar
fubjeCfc to a constant diminution by the wafhin;
of rains, by the disposition of the atmosphere it
{elf to disunite the parts which are thus brouph
into a constrained situation, and by their uniforn
tendency, when thus disunited, to take their plac
nearer to the centre of the earth. So true is this
that all moles arid banks of earth, however cover
ed with clods, or held together by the fibrous root
of vegetable fubftanccs, are seen, in the course of
few years, to diminifti very considerably, and t<
spread themselves into a fort of plain : and th<
author of* thele remarks has had it in his powe
to ascertain, beyond a doubt, that the height of ;
natural hill, the foil of which was not loosened b
cultivation, was, in a period of about forty years
diminiflied half a foot, though its base was abou
three miles in circumference. Now if, as the au
thor of the extra# supposes, the pyramids whicl
he saw, had been eonftruCted two hundred cen
turies ago, and at that time had been, not eighty
but more than an hundred and sixty feet in height
and supposing them to have diminiihed one tentl
of an inch annually, which is, I believe, nearl
ten times less than the truth, they would have beei
entirely reduced to a level before this time; am
he would have come much too late for the pleafuri
of beholding them.
And as the conje£ture is certainly Incapable o
defence, so there does not appear to be the leaf
iieceffity for it, in order to account for the whiti
substance that he discovered. Every changi
which is necessary to the produ&ion of this sub
fiance may as well take place in a hundredth par
of the time that he mentions, as in the whole,
Neither have we any reason to suppose that bo
dies arc perpetuallyor eternally|altering, or that as
ter a considerable space of time, they do not refolv
themselves into that state in which they will per
manently regain. It is at least certain, from th
numerous occasions which there have been to di{
Tip the repositories of the dead, that the very ef
seCt which he mentions has been produced in i
fucceflion of years, of no great extent : So that i
the author of this conjecture had mentioned tw(
centuries, instead of two hundred, he would pro
bably have come much nearer to the truth .
Thf other remarks which are contained in thr
extract, relative to the state of the country on bod
*des of the Miflifippi,—to the copper mine disco
vered there,—to the furnace and coals which wer<
found below the furface of the earth,—to th<
piece of black marble which dropped from th<
bank of the river,—to the spring of brine, —anc
to the numerous fortifications which have beer
Übfcrvcd,—allowing them all to be u^queilionablt
v a&s, do not appear to me to afford the shadow of
» foundation /or the induction which appears to
i3ve been the cause of making them, and which
> thus particularly slated " From these anJ
nany other similar remains of antiquity, one
tould be inclined to think the world much older
han it has been commonly imagined. Aristotle
ffirmed it to be eternal $ and no arguments have
ver been brought to confute him." Whether
he world, allowing it not to be eternal, is much
>lder than has commonly been imagined, is a poinr
/hich 1 ihall not at present discuss. Certain it is
hat this author has discovered no new evidences
f its extreme age ; for fa&s, similar to those he
las mentioned, have Jong been known, and the
betters of different systems, have had a fair oppor
unitv to compare their opinions, and to reconcile
he phenomena with their different theories. On
hefe every man will judge for himfeif. For ir.y
»wn parr, after giving some attention to the
e&, it appears to me that natural history is Whol
y inexplicable, without admitting that there has
ieen, at some pretty remote period of time, a
reat and general convulsion of the planet on
vhieh we live j and by which the parts whi«:h
nee were covered with water are now become
and, and vice versa : And that, admitting this,
ho' there may remain some difficulties, yet they
re neither half so numerous, nor half To inekpli
able, as those which occur on any other fuppcfv
ion : In a wora - , that on this plan there will be
Dine apprarances which it may not be easy fully
o explain, but yet they will not be such as involve
ny absurdity or coutradiftion.
But the author of the extra«sl evidently inclines
o favor what he affirms to have been the opinion
f Aristotle, and pofitiveiy aflerts that no argu
nents have ever bsen brought to confute him.
• ufFer me then, as 1 think, that of all opinions,
his is the most irrational, to furnifh one argu
nent for its confutation, that the alTertion, at an\
ate, may not be true hereafter. And the data
>n which the argument fliall be founded fliall b<
aken from the extract itfelf. This aflerts, thai
übftances are frequently found below the furfacc
>f the earth, and that in peaces where there art
10 vestiges of volcanoes or earthquakes; or ever
f these were the real cause of the subterranean si
uation of these substances, they are not fuppofec
j be so by the author ; but it is taken for grantee
>y him, that they are come to their present pla
ces, by the regular operations of nature ; an«:
rom this it i& that he makes his inference, in re
gard to the earth's antiquity. If, then, theeartl
Tjuft be ancient for this reason ; I assert that, foi
he fame reason, it cannot be eternal.
This very idea concedes what I have already
nentioned, and what I believe no one will deny,
hat there is in the laws of nature a
lency to render the earth a plain and smooth ffip
ace r by depretfing the hills and filling up the ca
'ities. But immense hills and vallies do yet a;.-
•ear, and therefore the earth cannot be eternal,
inlefs we suppose, what all philosophy abhor
hat the laws of nature have not aiwavs been a:
they now are; or that they are disposed* a
certain periods, to work backwards, and cover rh<
vhoie face of the earth anew with hills and holes:
>r, if an illustration may be admitted, to give i
he natural small-pox. Nothing is more evident
han that an eternal tendency to a level, ho\)vevei
gradual in its would have produced it,
ternal ages since j andtthuss f on this hypothecs,
here would not be, in all the language of the earth;
f languages or people could exist, a term at pre
ent to express either hill or Vale. So that qr
his author's own proof of the extreme longevity
>f the world, we fliall have, as long as mountaini
ind vallies remain, a (landing evidence that ihey
ire not eternal. But having adduced my argu
ment, I think proper to remark, that I am full;
»ware that i: is not novel, tho* I think it i» unan
r werable. It is, indeed, but one of a whole hef
>f arguments which, hotwithftanding the afl'ertipr
)f the author of the eXtract, have often been ur-
and unanswerably urged, to confute the opi
lion which he fays has never been confuted, i
ie is not convinced, he ought, at \czft, to ihov
o much refpeft to the opinions of others, as t(
upport the aflertion which gainsays them with ;
ew reasons.
As the above remarks relate to a point ih whicl
he general interests of science are someWhat con
:erned, I hope, Mr. Editor, you wilt favor then:
■vith a place in your paper ; tho' I have extender
hem farther than lat firft designed. Queftionj
eljtive to the furface and ftru&ure of the eartl'
ire, at present, occupying the attention of the
nolt enlightened philosophers of Europe, and they
:ertainly merit the attention of all. New disco
series will no doubt bemade* and tfruth will even
:ua 11 y be triumphant But among all the fa&j
vhich have hitherto been eftabliflied, none has
:ome to my knowledge which renders it improper,
it present, to repeat the question, which Burnet,
ong|fince, proposed: " I would ask the Eternaliib
fays he) what mark is there, that they could ex
)e6t or desire, of the novelty of a world, which is
iot found in this ? Or what mark of eternky is
here, that is found in this ?'*
With due refpe£t, I am vnur's, &c.
examinator.
EAST-INDIES.
Fort St. George, Sept. 15.
On the 16th July, the army marched toward?
OulTore, and arriving within five miles of ic,
major Gowdie, with his brigade, was detacheJ
against it. The major arrived there about three
in the evening, and in the morning sent a party
•jnder lieut. Macleod, with a flag of truce to
summon the fort. At the instant an explosion
was observed in the N. W. angle, and great num
bers of people were seen moving off to the
southward j circumstances which convinced ma
jor Gowdie that the fort was evacuated. A de
'achmejit was ordered to take pofleffion of it,
when it was found that the explosion had been oc
casioned by the enemy springing a mine, by
•vhich one of the fineft bastions was ruined. It
■ s a place of much rtrength, and had Tippoo
been allowed to finish it, we (hould have found as
much difficulty in taking it as was experienced in
the taking of Bangalore. FiVe pieces of can non,
lome artillery stores, and grain, were found in
the fort. Affer blowing up the bastions, the
enemy had-laid a plan for blowing up the whole
as fooa as our troops (hould have obtained pos
session of the garrison ; but the man employed to
put the match to the train, luckily took fright,
and saved two of our battalions. Some of the
village people laid, that there were three European
officers confined there 5 and that two days previ
ous to the arrival of our troops before the fort,
they were, by Tippoo*s orders, put to dearh.
On the 17th, the whole of the army encamped
before Oufl'ore. — Capt. Welsh, of the Bengal vo
lunteers, was ordered to take the command of
the fore, and major Gowjie, with his brigade,
was ordered against Roya Cottah, where he ar
rived about ten the following morning. A Suba
dar, and a party of sepoys, with a flag of truce,
was sent to the forr, with an offer of terms o!
capitulation to the garrison, who tefufed to givt
the Sub adar admittance, and contrarv to the lav*
of nations, fired three (hot at him, but without
efftft. On the iSth, orders were received from
Lord Cornwalli*, to get pofleffion of the Pettah.
and every preparation was accordingly made $ or
the next morning, just as the day began to dawn,
the major ran with a fix pounder up to the gate,
and blew it open ; and succeeded in the fame waj
against the infter gate, when the party on the at
tack, rushed forward to a fort on the fide of s
hill, and gained the foot of it with much difficul
ty, by a very steep ascent of about qoo yards, ir
which the people were obliged to aflift ejeh other;
here every moment became precious, and the
major seized the boportunity : he forced two gate
ways and puifued the part of the enemy's garri
son stationed there, nearly two hundred yards j
ail the while ascending the hill, by means of a
rugged flight ot steps, when another gateway pre
sented irfelf, and it being judged too difficult for
an attempt to force in, or indeed to reach it, the
major ordered the troops to letire under cover ol
the ports that had been secured. It was at this
place that the party sustained its greatest loss :
Ensign Crowe, of the corps of engineers, being ex
tremely desirous of ascertaining the exa£t fitua
cion of the gate-way, and its defence, did not
pay a neceflary attention to the orders that were
$iven for retiring, altho' twice repeated to him :
be fell a facrifice to the impulse of a generous
irdor, and expired on the spot.
On the 22d, major Gowdie, having frequently
jnd minutely reconnoitred the fort, and fatisfied
tiimfelf that it might be carried, all the field-pie
res of the brigade were brought to bear upon dif
er'ertt parti of it. and two of them upon three ol
ts gates. A rein fore eiricnt was sent from the
irand army, of a battalion of lepoys under Capt.
Uhace, and two 12 pounders. After the demoli
:iou of the enemy's defences, a general ail'aull
vas intended* a well dire&ed hre soon answered
he end pi opofed, the enemy fled from their work!
vith gieat precipitation—a white flag was imme
diately hung out from the walls—the capitala
:ion was signed at 6 o*cJock in the evening, wher
>ur troops were put into full poHefiion of the fort,
ire. Our loss at Roya Cottah was one officei
cilled, and two private European?, and seven fe
>oys wounded. Only three hundred bullock
oads of rice, some powder, and a small proper
ion of military stores were found in the fort.
I forgot to mention, when speaking of Ouf
ore, that after the grand army arrived there,
bme of the men found kalendars, journals, &c.
vhich marked the residence of some of the Han
libal man of War's people, particularly three ol
he name of Hamilton, James Wallis, and Sad-
L*. In one of the kalendars is this remark, t( Thi:
s the birth day of the unfortunate James Wallis,
iged 27 years." Their irons were in the work
hyp, and but newly ft ruck oft".
On the 24'.h of July, the army was encamped
Tear Neil Dioog, about twenty miles from Iv-tf
nagvrry. The place is well cultivated, and
ibownds with a number of good villages, but «s
it present depopulated, the inhabitants dreading
:he depredations of the Mahrattas, and our fol
owers have fled for shelter to the Hill Forts, fe
/eral of which have fallen into our hands, and
■vere found crouded with these unfortunate peo
)le.
Our army is now in pofTeffion of the following
Hill Forts, viz. Anchetv, Dargum, Terrau, Rat
ah, Gurry, Codea, Durgem, and Roya Cottah.
Lord Cornwallis hopes to be able to appear be
bre Seringapatam early in November. By the
ateft advicel in this place, Tippoo's army wa:
>11 the northern banks of the Cavery,' and hac
>een supplied from the capical with a confidera
le quantity of stores. The present report pre
vailing is, that an expedition to the eastward is
ntended, and that I ippoo will be there in per
">n. A detachment to the northward, undei
:he command of Seid Sahab, had marched, bui
ts objects are unknown : another detachment,
under Cummer-undecn-Kahn, consisting of fix
rhoufand horfej and the fame number of infan
try, wirh fix guns, marched to the Gazz?utty Pass
lome short time ago, to invade the fouthcrn pro
vinces of Palgarcherry and Coimbatoor, but he
failed in his expedition.
trcm the WEEKLY REGISTER,
Printed at Norwich, Connecticut.
EVERY friend to this country, mufl be fen
fiulv imp relied with the arduous business
which has been performed during this session of
Congress. If any one is so stupid, as to insist on
an enumeration of the important acts abovemen
tioned, I can answer him that since the meeting
of the present Congress, which is not yet quite
four months they have pafled an a& making ap
propriations for the year 1791, or in other words,
providing for their oivn wages, and also an a<ft to
regulate poft-offices and polt-roads : And what
mortal could expect greater exertions than these ?
Why, fir, the whole expenditure for performing
this does not surmount an hundred thousand dol
lars. But this is not all, much has been said
about the Indian war, and the galleries have been
cleared tvjtnty-three times, tor important private
communications. These private communica
tions doubtless contain much excellent matter, such
as the Cornplanter's Speech, and an exadt lift oi
the number of men butchered at the Miami vil
lages.
Again, fir, bow many fine speeches have hern
made upon the memorial of Catharine Greene,
relative to a contract made by the lafe General
Greene ? How language was exhausted upon this
lubjedt, and how many of our lage legislators
fpokc ajfeEiingly of the cruel Jubjeft of the Ame
rican war ?—who fliall fuppl) the place of Presi
dent cf the United in cafe of his death or
refigna'ion, or in other words, Whether the state
of Maflachufetts, New-York or Virginia, (hall
have the next President, has been litigated with
gre.it car Jour and ef'jint* rcjied patriotism.
But the great (jueihon whether Juhn Church
man's magnetic dilcoveries, deserve the aittrn
tion and patronage of the nat ional Jegiflature, has
been difculfed in the most finifhed and elaborate
manner. 1 his fubjedt emph yed the time of the
hrft Congress, from their eariieft meeting, till
their difiolution, and seems yet in its infancy.
Here was an exceiient opportunity for the dis
play of literary talents, and the members immor
talized their names on this fu bjeft ! Are not
such questions highly interesting ! What will be
come of the Rational funds, if Congress neglect
this-opportunity of informing themselves where
the magneric pole is ?
Gen. Wayne and Jackson's ele&ioneering dis
pute, has been entered upon and gieat prepara
tions are making for its difcullion—'Tis expetfed,
this will be highly entertaining «od important,
equal to the cock-fighting ana bull-baiting, prac
tised in Europe.
What prailes then are due to the faithfuT guar
4ians of our liberties, for such lingular exertions
for the public good ? Six dollars per day, is a
pitiful compensation for such important lervices.
Monuments ought to be erected, in perpetual re
membrance of their noble deeds and placed in the
New Federal City > the place defiened for the dis
play of all that is great and magn:ficent.
Norwich, Feb. 21, 1792.
Prices Current at Philadelphia.
fDoilar etjuai to 100 C.nts.j
ASHES Pot per ton 90 Dols. to 100
Alhes pearl 137 — — 140
Bacon flitches, per lb. 6 1-2 cents
Bacon shoulders 6 do.
Bees wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27
Brandy, Coniac pr gi. 1 dol. 50 c.
Brandy, common, 1 doi. 26 c.
Butter, in kegs, per lb. 10 c. to 12
Coals, per buihel, 20 c. to 22
Coffee, per lb. 18 c.
Cotton, per lb. 26 c. to 40
Flax feed, per buihel, 85 c. to qo
Flour, super iine, per barrel, 5 ools. 13 c.
Common, 4 dols. 74 c.
Burr middlings, belt, perbrl. 4 dois J3 c.
Meal Indian 2 dols. 67 c.
Rye 3 dols.
Ship fluff, per cwt, 1 dol. to 1 do 1. 33 c.
Gin, Holland, per cafe, 4 dols.
Ginseng, per !b. 20 c. to 24
Grain, parley, per befhel, 60 c. to 63
• best fhclled, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per buihel, 40 c.
Indian corn, 40 c. 44, Oats 26 c. pr. buflu
Rye 50 c. to 54, Wheat 90 to 93, pr. do.
Hams, per lb. 8 c. t<* 9
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67c.
American, per ib. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9 c. to 11
Indigo, Carolina, per Ib. 40 c. to x dol.
Iron, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
Castings, per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nail-rods per ton 96 dols. *
P g, per ton, 24 dols. Co i 6 dola. 67 c.
•Sheet, per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
®rd, hogs, per lb. 9 c. to 10
uead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
in pigs, dols. 33 c. to r } dols. 67 p.
P.cd, 6 dols. 40 c. to 6 dols. 67 c.
White, — — 10 dols. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Myrtle wax per Ib. iSc.
Holafi'es, per gal. 46 c. to 50
3 itch, per barrel, 1 dol. 73 c. t9 2 dols.
*ork, Burlington, per barrel, 11 dois to 11 d.33C.
Lower County, do. 10 dols.
Carolina, do. 9 dols.
xice, per 100 lb. 2 dols. 67 c.
per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 dols. 67 c.
3>um, Antigua, per gaPon, 90 c.
Barbadoes, do. do. 77 c.
New-England, &c. 59 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. J2 c.
Windward island, 80 to S3 c.
>nake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
>ugar, Havanna, white, per lb. 17 to 18 c.
Brown, per lb. 15 c.
Muscovado, per cwt. 14 dols. to l 6 dol*.
Lump, per lb. 22 c.
Loaf, single refined, 25 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 c.
Tallow, refined, per lb. 9 c.
l'ar, New-Jersey, 24 gal. to the brl. 1 dol.
Carolina, 32 gal. 1 dol. 33 c. to 1 dol. 67 c.
Tea, Hyson, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 C.
Hyson /kin, 53 c. to 67
Soufoong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 34 c. to 36
Tobacco, James River, heft, per ctot. 3 dols. 60 c%
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 2 dols. 67 C. to 3 dols.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 2 dols. 50 c. to 3 do!?.
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl. 33 c. to 8 dl.
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, 2 dols- 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dolt. 23 c.
Carolina, new, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dols.
Carolina, old, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dols.
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. 67 c. to 2 dols.
iVine, Madeira, per pipe, 106 dl. 67 c. to 200 d!»
Lilbon, ———. 96 dols. to \po
Teneriffe, per gal. 51 c. to 60
Fayal, 44 c-49
Port, per pipe, 106 dols. 67 c. to 120 cols
PRINTED BY
CHILD S AND SWAINE,
VT THEIR orr ICE, NO. 239, high-street
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA.