Vol. I.
AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firlt Session, begun and held ar the city o(
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania
on Monday the twenty-fourth of one
tlioufand leven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT supplementary to the Afl. for tht
EJlabhJhmcnt andfuppori of Light houses.
Beacons, Buoys, and Public Piers.
BE it enaEled by the Senate and House oj
Representatives of the United States o]
America, in Congress assembled, That all
expenses which shall accrue from the
firft day of July next, inclusively, for
the neceflary support, maintenance,
and repairs of all light-houles, beacons,
buoys, the ftakeage of channels, on the
sea coast, and public piers shall continue
to be defrayed by the United States,
until the firft day of July, in the year
on&thoufand (even hundred and ninety
three, not with Handing fuchlight-houfes,
beacons, or public piers, with the lands
and tenements thereunto belonging, and
the jurisdiction of the fame, shall not in
the mean time be ceded to, or veiled in
f?ie United States, by the state or states
refpeftively, in which the fame may be,
and that the said time be further allow
ed, to the states refpeftively to make
ceflion.
And be itfurther enaHed, That the Se
sretary of the Treasury be authorized
to esufe tc be provided, ereft-.-d, and
placed, a floating beacon, and as many
buoys, as may be necetfary for the secu
rity of navigation, at, and near the en
trance of the harbour of Charleston, in
the state of South-Carolina. And alfc
to have affixed three floating beacon;
in the bay of Chefapeak ; one at the
north end of Willoughby's Spit, ano
ther at the tail of the Horse-Shoe ; ant
the third on. the fhoaleft place of th<
middle ground.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of th
H&ufe of Representatives.
JOHN Adams, VUe-Prefident of th
United States, and Prefden
of the Senate
Approved, April twelfth, 1702.
G. Washington, Prefdent of th
United States.
Aji ACT teereEla Light-House on Montoci
Point in thejlateoj A'ew-York.
BE it enalied by tht Senate and House cj
Representatives of the United State,
tf America in Congress assembled, That a:
soon as the jurifdittion of such land or
Montock point in the state of New~\ orl<
as the President of the United State,
shall deem fufficient and most propc:
forthe convenience and accommodati
on of a light-house shall have been ced
ed to the United States, it shall be the
duty of the Secretary of the Treasury
to provide by contrast which shall b<
approved by the President of the Unit
ea States, for building a light houfi
thereonj and for furnifhing the fam<
with all neceflary supplies, and also t<
agree for the lalaries or wages of th(
person or persons who may be appoint
ed by the President for the superintend
ance and care of the fame; and th<
President is hereby authorized to maki
the said appointments. That the num
ber anddifpofition of thai lights in tlx
said light 'house shall be such as ma}
tend to distinguish it from others, ant
as far as is prafticabld, prevent mis
Sake*.
Jonathan TRtMiuxi, Speaker of th
House of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-'Prefident of tJu
United-States, and Prefidew
of the, Senate.
Approved, April twelfth, 1792.
11, Washington, President of the
United States^
By P. FR E N EA U : Publijhsd Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum,.
MONDAY, April 23, 1792.
An ACT for afcertaimng the Bounds of a \
TraEl oj Land purchajed by John Clet/is j
Symmes.
BE it enaEled by the Senate and House of.l
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress affembkd, TJiat thc ;
President of the United States be, and!
he hereby is authorized at the request
of John Cleves Symmes or his agent oti
agents, to alter the contratt made be-'
tween the late board of treasury and the]
laid John Cleves Symmes for the lale of J
a tratt of land of one million of acres,!
in such manner that the said tratt mayj
extend from the mouth of the Great
Miami, to the mouth of the Little Mia
mi, and be bounded by the river Ohio,
on the south, by the Great Miami on;
the welt, by the Little Miami on the
east, and by a parallel of latitude on the
north extending from the Great Miami
to the Litttle Miami, so as to compre
hend the proposed quantity of one mil
ion of acres, provided that the north
ern limits of the said tratt shall not in
terfere with the boundary line eftablilh
:d by the treaty of Fort Harmar, be
ween the United States, and th-? Indi
in nations, and provided also that the
he President reserve to the United
States, (uch lands at and near Fort
Washington as he may think necessary
F or the accommodation of a garrilon at
hat Fort.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of tht
House of Representatives.
John Adams, I'm-Prefident of the
United States, and President
of tkc Senate.-
Approved, April tn'n.ijjh, -179 a.
(j . Washington, President rf the
United States.
An ACT for fixing the compcnfations of the
Doorkeepers of the Senate and House of
Representatives in Congress.
BE it enaEled by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United Slates of
America in Congress assembled, That from
md after the termination of the present
(cllion of Congress, the door-keepers of
the Senate and Houle of Representa
tives, shall each be allowed a i'alary ofi
five hundred dollars per annum, in full
compensation for their services in the
laid offices; and that the assistant door
keeper to each House shall be allowed
in full compeufation for all his servi
ces, the fuin of four hundred and fifty
dollars per annum. And it shall be
the duty of the said door-keepers to do
the usual services pertaining to their
refpoftive offices during the session of
Congress, and in the recess, under the
iirefction of the Secretary of the Senate
md Clerk of the House of Reprelcnta
ives, to take care of the apartments oc
rupied by the refpettive Houses, and
arovide fuel and other accommodations
or their subsequent session. And the
aid compensations shall be certified
md paid in like manner as is provided
jy law, for the other officers of the Se
late and House of Representatives.
Jonathan Tr'umbi/li;, Speaker of tlie
House of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President oj the
United States, and Prefideui
of the Senate.
approved, April twelfth, 1702.
G. Washington, Prefident'of t'u
United States.
Mr. MERCER'S Speech on the PUBLIC
DEBT.
[Continued/rem out lofl, and coriclud<d7\
SO much for the right. I now bc£
leave to remark with refpett to the po
licy.
From reasons stated, it would be rea
dily imagined what experience liaslanc
tioned—That a funding system, once
began in any nation, has always increas
ed—the motives that led them to run
in debt a& with jdouble force toprevent
their getting out. It is a cancer in the
body politic that acquires strength from
amputation ; if any remedy exists in
nature, it is yet to be discovered. It is
lo plealant to spend on other people's
cost, that it arms all the powerful pas
sions against the judgment. Hence the
rapid accumulation of public debts
throughout Europe—the increase exhi
bits the appearance of the regular as
cent of a mountain, while the reduc
tions appear like gullies in the fides,
scarcely discernible, impeding the pTo
grefs but for a moment. Great Britair
has run in debt 250 millions sterling ir
less than a century. Had frre original
ly adopted a plan of rendering the deb
irredeemable, and had not seized ever)
favorable rife of credit to lower the in
tereft, by which means she pays now 3
per cent for money borrowed at 8, nc
ryftem of taxation would have paid th<
interest and supported government ever
3t this day ; and all this debt must hav(
began in the memory of men now living
That this government should have
funded, in less than five years from it:
jrigin, near 50 millioris of dollars, anc
Ihould now propose to fund near 2c
rniliions more—that we should hav<
ransacked the whole United States U
find debts toeffeft this, invite them frort
:very quarter, and set them to find out
create and revive debts already funk
to secure as large a fharc of the genera
revenue as poflible; that we fhoulc
have carried the principle to the extra
vagant exccfs we have done, by the in
vention of deferred Hock, which no na
tion ever ventured to hazard, ail in ou:
sarlieft infancy, must afford- fublimi
r>rofpe£ts of our progress in mature age
Something unexampled mtift be done
for if we adopt the addition now propo
fed, I believe we (hall find ourfelve;
[addled with a greater funded debt
thau Great Britain herfelf, comparative
ly with the relative wealth of the res
pefti-ve nations ; and I believe thei
debts make even the boldcft veterari o
the projecting tribe quake with terror
It is true, we may not feel it so fenfibh
in consequence of paying no immediati
interest in so great a proportion as thi
deferred stock ; yet it is a debt our chil
drcn will feel, and some of us-.
It will in the aggregate form a mas
of 70 millions of dollars. The proper
tyof the United States is worth what i
will fell for at an ordinary market
Although it cannot be precisely alcer
tained what the amount woulcl be, wi
are fiill furnifhed with fufficient dau
to form a tolerable estimate. In fh<
state I have the honour to represent
industry and ceconomy. have long give:
a high relative value to their property
That property was afTefled, soon afte
the war [when raised, to an idea
height.] to 12 millions their money
From the fall of price, I do believe tha
the whole or any proportion of it woulc
not now bring, at fair market, the mo
ney. From this we must dedudt sou;
millions for thenegro property, whicl
cannot be included in a relative compa
rii'on with other countries, where-th<
labourers, although equally and mor<
valuable, are not considered as proper
ly ; there would then remain 8 mtlli
ons. Maryland'is at least a 12th of th<
United States, she has indeed alway:
been rated at a higher proportion ; this
would fix the property of the Unitec
States at 260 millions of dollars; the
debt then is more than a 4th of the
wholi value of the property.
The wealth of Great-Britain is esti
mated, by Mr. Young an'd Mr. Pulte
ney, and I believe there is no good'rea
fon to question their authority, at iooc
millions sterling ; they owe 250 milli
ons, which is a fourth ; their debt then
is relatively less than ours. Again,
from their extenfiveand lucrative colo
nial establishments in the Eaftand Weft
Iwd-ies,' their annuaHncome' is inereafed
so as to-yield a net revenuesF 100 mili
011s sterling per annum, so that they re
ally do not owe 3 years income. What
Numb. 51.
our annual net income is, I have nt> fa
tisfa&ory document to Form any efti
mateof, but I fear it is but small. Ihe
deferred (lock may defer the extent of
the evil, but it is by a facrifice of all
principle to convenience.
And for what has all this magicbuild
irig been ere£ted ? What were the be
nefits expe&ed ? The states were going
on rapidly in cxtingaifhing their debts:
there was no complaint that their cer
tificates were too low. In 1785 and
1786, the Maryland certificates were
nearly as high as they are now, or Would
be if assumed. Perhaps some found un
derstandings were led away by vigor of
genius, uncorre&ed by experience, and
bccame bewildered by the vrfioriary
dreams of Pinto, Champion, and a va
riety of calculators. To compare the
Secretary's firfl report on the public
debt, with the last on the frontier dc
:encc, furnifhes at least the consolation
;hat a candid mind will rclinquiflv er
or. Had he adhered to those apof
:les of political truth, Montefquieti and
Smith, the firft pages of. the firfl repO'fi
ivo-ald have been stricken out.
It has anfweredf, I will venture to as
sert, but one good effefl of these pre
dicted, for the myriads of evils it has
entailed. It has enabled some debtors
10 pay off on better terms. But thft
number of them arc blit few, distressed
people cannot keep theft things, they
sarly get into other hands.
As to its increasing our capital, that
ground is now abandoned even by big
otry itfelf. To mortgage an estate adds
nothing to its value—an estate is not
doubled by dividing its profits* So
much wealth as is borrowed on pro
perty, of so much less value is the pro
perty to him that holds, pays the inte
rest, and stands charged.
Every atom of funded debt is so
much taken from the value of the land
in the hand of the landholders, and so
much diminished from the value of
labor to the laborer. Thus one great
alcding of the funded debt predi&'ed irl
the rife Of land, has taken a contrary di
rection, for, unlefsit is round some towns,
lands-will hardly fell at all. Even in
England and old countries, wherethere
is a variety of other wealth, the public
debt has so far leffencd the value of
land, that an estate that actually prodnc-*
ss 1. 90000 a year, is in fact onl)F" esti
mated at about 63, and when fold thd
year's purchases are estimated at the
latter sum.
Men that purchase land are not so
thoughtless of pofterityas adminiftrati*
ons usually are. They purchase in a
great measure for children. They con
lider the incumbrances, and fix' their
price accordingly. Altho' we pay nd
intt-reft on deferred stock, yet it enters
deeply into the price of Our lands.
There is another confideraton that
is weighty on this fubjett : That stock
in every country, particularly in one
situated as we arc, is ever varying in.
value. Since I have been here, in five:
weeks, it"has altered its value one third.
It cannot serve thCn as a medium of
commer'ce, for that nvuft be some cer
tain common fthndard. To measure
our commodities by a standard more va
riable than the commodities themselves,
lias always been held as absurd. COn
feq-uently; I never heard of land, or in
deed any thing: else, fold for stock. If
the exchange'takes place at all, it is firft
by a sale, and money is the metiiunft.
It bears therefore ftich a proportion to
the money in circulation, aha requires'
so much, that it pinches all other ob
jects of sale—.land, produce, and I - be
lieve commerce too. It-jsan old max
im, and I believe a trvic one, that if
money is to be had, it will be had to
game with. $tock"s are so uncertain, that
traffic in them has ever been considered
as "a species of gaming. Thefr'value is
supported by it. Withdraw the game
' See lajl Page.JCONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wedsesda',", April 18.
The repoitof ihc lelcft committee on the pe
ition of the invalid officer [whose application
to the judges of of the circuit court has been al
ready mentioned] was taken up and read.—ll
contains barely a state of facts.
A petition praying relief for sundry American
Tailors captured by the Algerines, was referred
to afelea committee.
A memorial was read from sundry owners ol
and agents for iron-works iu the state of Penn
fylyania, praying that the duties on bar an 3 pig
iron may not be difcontinued—Referred to the
committee of the whole on the bill for railing
additional supplies.
A bill for fettling the demands of A. W.
White against the United States, was reportec
and read a firft time.
On considering the meflage received yester
day from the Senate, the House concurred with
them in their proposed amendment to the bill
authorizing the grant and conveyance of certain
lands to the Ohio Company.
Mr. Secretary Otis delivered a meftage, in
forming the House, that the Vice-President hav
ing obtained leave of absence on account of hi
own and his family's bad state of health, the
Senate had elected the lion. R. H. Lee Presi
dent pro tempore, as the constitution diretls.
Mr. Otis further informed the House, thai
the Senate had considered the bill to extend the
lime for payment of the duties on certain teas,
and resolved that the fame fliould not pass to a
third reading : —and, that they had palled a bil
to make alterations in the treasury and war de
partments, in which they desired the concur
rence of the House.
This bill was read a firft and (econd time, anc
referred to a committee of the whole 011 Friday
next.
Mr. Gerry laid on the table a resolution for
the appointment of a committee, to enquire in
to the state of the recruiting service, and (if ne
cessary) to report a bill for promoting the fame,
by encreafing the pay of the privates, establish
ed by the '.''aft making further and more ef
fectual provision for the prote&ion of the fron
tiers," to four dollars per month,
.. Pursuant to the order of the day, the House
resolved itfel'f into a committee of the whole,
and resumed the consideration of the bill foi
Tailing a further sum of money for the protettior
of the frontiers,
. The committee having p roceededto the I2tl
feflion,
Mr. Parker moved to ftiike it our, as direflly
intpofing a stamp duty, which he considered a:
a pernicious measure, that he hop?d he woulc
never fee introduced under this government, un
less infome cafe of dire necellity.
Mr. Fitzfimons replied, that the having ;
•stamp 011 the paper is not alone a fufficient rea
son :o reject it: the duty, he oblerved, i
small ; ana, being impoled on cards, will bi
acceptable to moll people.
: Mr. Livermore adverted to the uncommor
degree of minuteness in the precautions tor fe
curing the collection of that duty ; and though
it fey no means neceflary' tobe foextremely cau
tious about so trifling an article as caijls.
Mr. Williamfon replied, that either the du
ty mull be struck out altogether, or lome provi
Con made to ensure its colleflion ; —that then
'is no article on which a duty can be laid witl
so much propriety, as on playing cards ; bu
that, without some regulation for marking them
theduty will be evanescent, and no revenue a
all will accrue; —this had been the cafe in N
Carolina, where a duty having been imposed
the cards were constantly smuggled.—As to thi
stamp, he hoped the mere name of " mad. dog 1
iwould not be fufficient to condemn the meafurt
—for as the duty itfelf was not objefled to, a
improper, he CQuld not fee any dangerous attacl
on the liberties of the people, in fettinga marl
on paper, to prevent smuggling, the {lamp be
ing in fa£t nothing more than a mark, to dif
tinguifh whether goods were smuggled or not
and this, he thought, the- people could not com
pluin of, as oppreflive :--in iome time hence,
it may perhaps be found neceflary to impose :
stamp on law proceedings also ; for fpmethin)
of that kind mull be done, before recourse bi
had to a poll-lax or land-tax.
.The quellion being taken on ftrikingout thi
feftion, 11 palled in the negative, four gcntlemei
only having lifenin the affirmative, viz.
Melf. Livermore, Macon, Parker'and Vena
__ ble.
• The 13, 14, 15 and 16 fe&ions, on the fame
fubie£i, were agreed to,
The 18th fcition being read, as follows, —
S?£l. 1-8. And be it further enacted, Thai
the several and refpeclive duties aforefaid, ex
cept that mentioned in the fourth feflion of this
ast lhall continue to be levied, collected and
paid until the debts' and purposes to.and for
wljich the duties hereby directed to cease after
the day of next,
were pledged and appropriated, lhall have been
fully paid and fatisfied; and that so muchthere
of as may be neceflary, shall be, and hjreby are
pledged and appropriated in the fame manner,
for the fame purposes and with the fame forte
and effe£tas thole which are hereby dirc'fted to
cease after the said day of. next ;
and that so much of the residue thereof as may
be neccflary, lhall be, and hereby are appro-
priated for making good deficiencies in any
l ands which may have beeD delignated for fatis
fying grants and appropriations heretofore made.
Mr. Seney moved to flrike it out, and in lieu
thereof to insert,
" BeitenaSled, That this ast (hall continue
until the day of , and until
the next feflion of Congress which {hall happen
thereafter, and no longer : and that, from and
after the expiration of the fame, the duties here
by extinguished and repealed, {hall be revived,
collected and paid in the fame manner, as if this
afct had never been palled."
A warm debate hereupon took place, during
the couife of which, onegentleman who flrenu
aufly supported the motion, was several time'
interrupted ;--apprehenfions were exprefled ol
dangerous conferences in cafe his speech fhoulc
ippear in print ,--and an honorable member,
who opposed the motion [Mr. Gerry] declared,
hat the manner in which the debates of Con-
Jrels had been published, and the business con
iufted, during the present feflion, - had a direfl
endency to bring about a diflolution of th<
anion.
The question being taken on Mr. Seney':
notion, palled in the negative : yeas 27, nays 32
The committee having proceeded through the
emainder of the bill, rose and reported it, wit!
undrv amendments.
Thursday, April 19.
A bill lor fettling the demands of A, W
White against the United States, was read i
econd time, and referred to a committee o
he whole on Monday next.
Mr. Goodhue, from a fele£t committee, re
>ored a bill refpefting the compensation of cer
ain officers employed in the collection of th<
duties of lmpoti and tonnage ; which was reac
i firft and lecond time, and committed for Mon
lay next.
A report from the Secretary of the Treafun
an the memorial of the nieichants of Pbiladel
phia, refpettingthe erefhon of piers at New-
Cafllc on Delaware, was referred to a fele£
:oinmittee, to examine and rcpou, by bill o
atherwjfe.
Mr, S. Bourne presented, and Mr. Speake
rgned, an enrolled bill, authorizing the gran
ind conveyance of certain lands to the Ohii
Company of Aflociates.
The House proceeded to the confiderationo
he amendments, reported by the committee o
he whole, to the bill for raising an additiona
"urn of money for the protection of the frontiers
and having gone through the fame,
Mr. Seney moved further to amend the bill
by adding, at the end, the following feflion :
" Be it cnaßed, That this ast {hall continui
rntil the day of , and unti
he next feflion of Congress which {hall happei
hereafter, and no longer; and that, fiom ant
ifter the expiration of the fame, the duties
leteby extinguished and repealed, {hall be te
fived, collected' and appropriated, in the fam<
manner they would have been, if this ast hat
lever been paired."
This motion gave rife to a lengthy debate
h1 ch was supported with an interfiling degrei
as warmth and animation on both fides of the
jucflion ; and continued till the usual hour o
ldjournment; when, the yeas and nays beinr
railed,
I liofe who voted in the affirmative, were,
Mefi. Afhe, Baldwin, Brown, Fmdley, Giles
Gregg, Griffin, Grove, Meifler, Jacobs, Lee
Macon, Madison, Mercer, Moore, Nilcs, Page.
Parker, Schoonmaker, Seney, Sheridine, J
Smith, 1. Smith, Steele, Sturges, Sumpter.
Tredwell, Tucker, Venable, White, William
on, Willis. 3s.
lhofewho voted in the negative, were
MelT. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, Boudinot
5. Bourne, B. Bourne, Clarke, Dayton, Fitzfi
110ns, Gerry, Giltnan, Goodhue, Gordon
Hartley, Hillhoufe, Huger, Key, Kitchell, Kit
.era, Lauranee, Learned, Livermore, Muhlen
lerg, Murray, W. Smith, Sterrett, Sylvester
i haicher, Vining, Wadlworth, Ward. 31.
Th e ma onty 111 favor of the motion being bu
me, Mr. Speaker (as entitled by the rules of th<
louse) gave his calling vote, and the queflior
passed in the negative.
Mr. Page then moved that the bill should b(
recommitted ; but before a question was taker
an the motion,
Mr. Fitzfimons laid 6n the table a propofi
tion ol amendment, aai the House adjourned.
Friday, April 20.
The petition of K. Latld, praying a re
million of the duties on certain goods, damagei
ay {hipwreck, was referred to the committee or
the petition ofW. and J. Symmcs.
A memorial, from sundry citizens of thi
Hate of N. Carolina, refpettingcertain impedi
tnents in their navigation, was referred to a lelef
:omtnittee.
Mr. Gerry having read in his place a paflagr
if the American Daily Advertiser of this day
containing a comment on certain expreflions h<
bad used in the.debate of Wednel'day lall,
nade a motion for the appointment of a numbei
if persons skilled in short hand writing to take
lown the debates of next session referred tc
1 feieft Committee.
The House having then taken up the Bill foi
fifing an additional sum for the defence of the
frontiers, and amotion for recommitment be
ing negatived, fun Iry amendments were made,
ind the bill was ordered to be engrofledfor a
third reading.
One of the amendments was, to flrike out eve
ry thing relating to the flamp on cards. Car
ried, Yeas 27 ; Nays, 25.
For the National Gazette. —— No- IV.
CONVERTING the tobacco plantations
in Virginia into farms,. wilf not only
promote the prosperity and wealth of that
state, but will greatly contribute to the in
dividual happiness of its citizens. Whilfl
we make this declaration in favor of the
proposed alteration, .it may be proper tc
observe that the previous and necessary ex
penses attending the full cultivation of 2
well regulated farm, are very coniiderable
The spirit of calculation has hithertc
been too much neglected by the yeomanry,
and therefore this valuable class of citizen;
has, in most countries, fallen a facrifice tc
inlidious fyftems,of indireO taxation bro'l
forward and supported by financial artifice
and cunning-
To conduct agriculture to the advantage
of a country, requires a greater sum oi
money to be inverted in it, than in general
is thought necessary. The expenses are oi
three kinds ; 1 ft, Primitive, or filch as are
connected with the foil itfelf, consisting oi
clearing the land of trees, roots, stones.
digging of drains, and putting it in order so:
the plough, habitations for the farmer ant
bis family, barns for hay and grain, Itable:
for horses and cattle, and building;; for the
preservation ~of waggons, carts, ploughs,
and other instruments of hufoand-ry. 2nd.
Instrumental expenses; confined to provi
ding implements ofhufbandry and stock oi
"verykind. 3d, Annual expenses, com
prehending the subsistence of man and llocl<
on the farm, the support and reparation oi
nftruinents and buildings, manuie, &c.
Such an account of expenses may alarir
ind discourage many planters; but they
Ihould remember that the produce of theii
farms will be in proportion tofuch expenses,
With refpeft to the size of a farm, it is
asserted that our farms in America are toe
large ; I would rather fay that the/ar/fi oj
rhe yeomanry are too weak, to carry 011 agri.
culture to their own profit, or to the ad
vantage of the country. The advocate:
for small farms aflert, that farms under one
hundred acres nir.il necessarily exec 11 '11:
iufbandry : ?nd that the superiority of ma
lagement mull of course be in proportior
:o their degree of fmailnefs : On the con
trary, however, every country affords evi
dence of the fallacy of these conceptions,
It is on the larger not on the smaller farm:
we find a spirit of improvement, and a su
periority of management to prevail. A
inong the occupiers of small farms, whoft
"canty poffefHons are too frequently mark
t-d with an inferiority of management, lit
tle information can be expected. It is or
:he farms of men whose independency
tonverfation and reading has led them tc
:hink and ast without prejudice, that W(
liuft expect to find a superiority of genera
nanagement and a spirit of improvemen
o prevail. A farm of two hundred acres
übjeft to a proper rotation of crops, wil
ift'ord ful! employment toonefamiky. Farm;
liould not be less, if we wilh'to preserve the
neiependency of the yeomanry, or pro mo U
he real wealth of the commonwealth.
However individuals may differ in opi
lion refpefting the iize or a farm, it is uni
erfally allowed, that it is impoifible tc
;arry on any farm to advantage without i
;ood farm yard and proper buildings. Ii:
arms where such are not to be found, the
;rafs fields are poached all winter, and the
quantity of manure procured is but trilling.
View the management of two farmers in tin:
-efpect, the one good, the other bad ; the
irft procures by every means plenty of lit
ter for his stables and his yard, he saves ali
the refufeftraw, fodders all his cattle in the
stables or in the yard, and at the conclufior
of the winter he is in poflefiion of a valuable
quantity of manure—On the contrary, the
slovenly husbandman keeps his cattle rang
ing about the fields all winter, the hay or
grain of each field is llackeii in it, and all
his pastures poached. The management of tht
farm yard is a point off) muck importance that tci
muck attention cannot be given to it.
The housing ot cattle from the firft week
in November to the firft week in May, is
necessary in order to procure the greatest
quantity of manure ; in the day time the
cattle to be turned into the barn yard and
foddered with straw : During this period
fifty head of cattle will create a fufficiency
of manure for the complete dressing of -o
acres of land. To afford shelter to the
stock in the barn yard, the necessary build
ings frequently form a hollow l'quare. The
quantity of walling, number of doors,
extent of roofing, with repairs incident to
low draggling buildings, renders this and
svery other plan which resembles it altoge
ther ineligible. The buildings of a farm
liould be as compact as possible—we prefer
1 long square for the principal building, the
{round floor to be occupied as stables ; and
he upper part of the building to forfti the
jarn and hay chamber, with a barn floor—
ill rural oeconomy, straight lines and right
angles are principles which can seldom be
deviated from with propriety, either in
laying out a farm or in planning farm build
ings. The great object is tot procure the
delired conveniences at the least expense,
present and future. The number
of conveniences there can be included in
one building, the cheaper will they be ch
ained. A FARMER.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
On the Secretary's Report on the Excise.
THE Report of the Secretary of the
Treasury upon the petition respeCting
the Excise Law, which had been referred
to him by the House of Representatives, is
accompanied with an elaborate detail of
arguments, and a flatemento f faCts, calcu
lated as a reply to the reasoning of the pe
titioners in favour of a repeal or revision of
che law ; and a copy of this ministerial es
say has been delivered by order of the
House to each member, for the purpose of
a (lifting him to make up his mind on the
important question to which it leads. In
iligefting this report and preparing these
arguments several months have palled away;
and that the influence to be promoted by
them might be the better matured, a ccn
fidera'ble time subsequent to their public
tlifcuffion was Suffered to eiapfe before any
further order was taken on the subject by
the friends of the Excise System.
Let us suppose, for a moment, that the
Secretary is perfect in wisdom, immaculate
and infallible with refpeflt to integrity,
Congress, it mull be confefled, are extreme
ly happy in deriving such assistance from
his personal merits and qualifications, and
have been fortunate indeed in the instituti
on of the Secretary's office, and in the uses
which they make of it. Ear inferior is the
Britifhmode of communicating ministerial
aid to parliamentary deliberation. The
Minister of that nation, though he poffefles
the advantage of being a member of the le
gislature, can only introduce his resoluti
ons, and offer his reasons on the floor, as a
member ; and if these should be thought
dangerous or improper, there are always
some characters ready, on the fame ground,
and with equal privileges to examine his
statements and to detect the artifice con
tained in his proportions, before the lea
ven has time to ferment. The efficacy of
the antidote depends indeed upon its being
administered before the poison, not assimi
lated with the usual nourishment. If,
therefore, we admit that the Secretary is a
fallible mortal, and however great his ca
pacity may be, that he is liable to mistake,
or to be imposed upon, or in the range of
hypothecs, if we suppose these possible cas
es, that his political principles may not cor
refponcl with the genius of thegovernment,
or with the public opinion ; or that he em
braces the interest of one class of the com
munity in preference to the interest of the
other daffes—l fay, admitting any, or all,
of these circnmftances to be possible, then
the ministerial mode of influencing tlie de
liberations of Congress, praCtised iince the
change of the government, is more dan
gerous than even that which is pursued,
but loudly complained of, in Britain. That
the minister's character is in some measure
involved in the last of my fuppolitions may,
I think, be demonstrated by a -critical exa
mination of almost all his fifcal reports ;
but for the present I will confine myfelf to
the proofs, arising from a few observations
upon the report (to which I have already
referred) grounded on the objection, to the
Excise Law, as one of the most recent and
important acts of his administration.
Before I enter upon this difcuflion, how
ever, a short history of the origin of the
Excise in the United States will be necef
"ary to throw light upon the fubjeCt. To en
able Congress to provide for the discharge
of the debts, incurred in the progress of
the revolution, was a principal motive for
hefting the government of the union with
more extenlive powers, anil cloathingit in
more approved forms. When the newly
organized government began its adminii
:ration, after providing for executive ar
angements, the public debt naturally em
ployed the attention of the Legislature ;
nit instead of investigating the business by
i committee in any of the usual forms, it
■vas referred generally to the Secretary of
:he Treasury, without even fixing the prin
ciples by which he was to be governed j
:he debt for which he was to provide, or
:he fotirces from which the proviilon was
:o be drawn. The citizens only expected,
md the public creditors only wilhed that a
competent provision should be made for
raying the interest on the public debt, un
:il the principal could be dilcharged, and
"or paying oft the small arrearages of inter
est that had not been extinguished, accord-,
ng to the modes of the confederation : for
t is to be observed that the interest previ
m(ly to the firit of January 1788, was so
effectually disposed of among the different
tates by requisitions, that Congress would
lot even receive itrin payment for lands.—
-ience it appears, that, besides the foreign
lebt, the capital of the domestic debt, efti
liated at was the whole amount
•or which Congress had to provide the
means of paying interest, according to any
;xifting obligation ; and for this the import
ifforded a fufficient and permanent fund.
It is true that debts were contracted by the
-efpeCtive states, under assurances of re
ceiving a credit for them by Congress upon
1 final Settlement: but that Settlement was
:hen in progress under the direction of
:ommiffioners, vested with competent au
ihority, and is now nearly compleated ; and
110 ft of the states had previously made confiderable exertions in extinguifliitig the
debts of this description ; or had, in aid of
the general government, during its want
of resources, poflefled themfelvcs of so
much of the domestic claims, as would raise
a productive fund for theii discharge. The«
western lands, and the probable surplus of ;
the import, which mult increase with the
increase of our population, oflered a com
petent fund for the two years arrears of j
interest on the domestic debt, and what j
might, on the final settlement, appear due
to creditor states; which, however, ought
to have been balanced by requiiitrons. If j
this natural order of things had been pur- 1
sued, neither excise, nor direst taxes would
have been neceflary.
But the Secretary, not contented with
taking up this business in the way it natur-!
ally presented itfelf, augmented the domes
tic debt, probably between a third and a
fourth ofthe whole amount, by reviving
that portion of it which had been legally
provided for by the requiiitions of Con- j
grefs ; and proje&ed an aflumption of the
aggregate of the state debts. To the sur
prize of the citizens, Congress eventually
ratified his system, with very few alterati
ons. It is true that it was agreed to, with
great difficulty, by a small majority ; and,
it is now known, by a very unequal repre
sentation of the union,: but such a fyltem
would probably never have been proposed,
and fut ely would not have been adopted,
if the legislature had originated the business.
Along with the aflumption of the state
debts, the excise was proposed and enact
ed ; a tax, which, as it atfefts home pro
duce, was hateful to the citizens, and molt
disapproved in those states that had made
the greatest exertions to discharge their
debts, and whose greatest dependence was
on agriculture.
This excise law, however, thus intro
duced, having been found, in a great de
gree, unproductive and impracticable, and
being again brought by the people before
Congress, has received a vindication in that
report of the Secretary which it is my in
tention to invefligate, and to which I fliall
now return.
In the firft page of the report, the Secre
tary observes that the objections have a re
ference to a supposed tendency in the a£t,
i ft, To contravene the principles of liberty,
sdly. To injure morals. 3dly, To oppress
by heavy and excessive penalties, injure
industry and interfere with the bulinefs of
distilling. 1 am aware, with ref
peft to the third particular, the heavy and
excessive-penalties, that before the excise
becomes-pract icable, the penalties mult be
more excessive than they ye;, are ; for I ad
mit, that, if an excise upon home-produce
is neceflary, heavy penalties and arbitrary
powers are its natural and neceflary con
comitants. If therefore the tax Hands the
test of examination, or the questions ref
pefting morality, industry, and good policy,
it would be wrong to arfeft much nicety
about the penalties or powers, by which its
coUeflion is guarded and lecured.
On the quertion of liberty, the Secretary
presumes greatly upon the conviction, which
originally dictated the law :
But, 1 will make free to afiert that it was
not the convi&ion of the people. Nay, is
it not a matter recorded and underitood
that the aflumption of the state debts,
which alone created the necessity of the
Excise, was carried by a very small majori
ty of that representation ; and uncler such
circumstances, too, of management and
inducement, as were not very honorable ?
To pass over these collateral considera
tions, however, I believe that an Excise is
a tax of such a nature, as cannot, in any
possible mode of conducting it, be rendered
consistent with the liberty of the citizens.
In support of this opinion, I lhall aflign lodic
of the reasons on which it is founded.
In the firft place, then. It is not possible
for the people to understand the Excise so
well as other direct taxes. It is paid with
out feeling so sensibly, or knowing so well
the amount that is paid ; and consequently
it is, in a degree, taxing the people blind
folded. I know there are persons, and par
ticularly some, who have a voice in the af
fairs of government, to whom this very in
cident is a recommendation of the Excise ;
because, as they alledge, the people pay it
cheerfully in swallowing their draught of
grog. This remark may, indeed, apply in
countries where the fubjefts do not give
their money to are robbed
of it by tyrants; and where there is no
check set to the exactions, but merely the
interest of the rulers, to preserve the people
in a capacity of providing for future taxes.
Every robber, upon this maxim, will take
the eaiieft method of procuring his booty,
and consequently, prefer artifice to a direct
attack. The argument, however, must
appear in a more striking point of view,
when taken in connexion with my subse
quent remarks.
Secondly, Another objection arises from
the extent to which the Excise may be car
ried. By the mere a£t of the legislature,
it may be made to embrace every thing that
is ufeful and comfortable to mankind.
What neceflary, what comfort of life has,
in European nations, escaped the insatiable
maw of Excise-Laws ! This species of tax
nation may well be denominated the politi
cal horse-leech, the barren womb ' that
: never has enough. If we look across the
< Atlantic to Britain, we shall perceive that
: although the Excise plausibly began its ope
ration there, as it has with us, on supposed
: j luxuries, yet that with inconceivable rapi
' jdityit seized upon everything ufeful and
j comfortable in life. The shoes which the
,people wear are excised with the tanner
and the currier ; the soap with which they
Jwafh their linnen, the starch with which
: they clear it; the glass which admits the
, light by day, and the caudle which supplies
fit by night; the beer that is drank, and the
j butchers'meat that is eaten, make but a
j small portion of the cxcifeable enjoyments
of that country, whose boalted freedom is
tarnilhed with corruption, and whose ve
nality and extravagance are in agrent rnea
fure produced and foflered by these odious
' Excises, the horror of all free states. —But
, were I to enumerate the excifeable articles
i in the Britilh book of rates, it would fill
more p.tges than I design to write upon this
subject.
When we contemplate the state of
France, we behold a generous nation la
bouring under an increased load of excises,
until the burthen became so intolerable,
that the most loyal people in the world,
who had hitherto blindly idolized their
grand monarch, and for his fake gloried in
their chains, were compelled at last to
spurn the dire oppression ; and thus roused
from the lethargy .of prejudice and servility,
they overturned the pyramid of rapacious
and insatiable profufion, which had endur
ed for ages. To detail the variety and ex
orbitance of the Excises in France, would
in itfelf require an exteniive volume ; I will
therefore only mention the article of fait,
which in some provinces had been raifeil to
8 dollars a bufliel ; and of tobacco, which
had been raised to half a dollar a pound.
It will add to the extravagance of these
impositions when we recollect that fait is in
France an article of home produce, and in
such great abundance that even the marflies
teem with it; and that in some privileged
provinces, tobacco is likewise cultivated in
plenty ; altho' in other provinces, fitter for
tiie growth of the plant, it is baniflied, by
rigid prohibitions, from their foil. But still
it has become, in the use, a neceflary. I
might, in short, traverse all the nations of
Europe in which Excises have been intro
duced, and, whatever ideas of taxing arti
cles of luxury were suggested as the lure,
when they were originally proposed for
adoption, it would be uniformly found that,
in the iffiie, they have fallen heaviest on the
necelfaries of life. This principle is, in
deed, invariably pursued by financiers, let
their pretences be what they may ; for ne
ceflary articles are generally the least con
venient for fmuggliiig purpose. and being,
at the fame time, of unavoidable consump
tion, they mult always be the most produc
tive, and afford the most certain fubjeits for
official estimates. Even in our own impost,
the duty on fait, an .article which enters
moll largely into the daily food of the poor;
and which, in parts distant from the sea, is
neceflary also in the food of beasts, has been
raised by every revifton of the law, until
the'contribution levied by government from
a bufliel of coarse fait exceeds, -jrifaSt, the
amount of the firft cost and freight.—No
article of luxury pays so high. Salt ought
to be as free as the water we drink, as it is
of as general and equal ufefulnefs. I thank
God, that the purling stream is not in the
povfer of exciiing financiers; if it were,
the fatigued labourer, or the thirsty horse,
would have to contribute to government
before they couldquaff the cooling draught!
—I cail upon the contrivers and promoters
of the system to mention that nation, which
has at any time introduced Excises on its
domestic produce, or manufactures, with
out extending the fatal grasp to the neces
saries of life, which, as I have already ob
served, must ever be the most productive
sources of that species of revenue. To
luxuries, indeed, the instrument may firft
be artfully applied ; but it uniformly adts
as the opening wedge, to make way for the
whole system, with all its enormities and
oppressions.
Can we then promise ourselves to be an
exception to the experience of all other
nations ! Let the present excise be once in
full operation, and occasions will annually
arise for its extension. Cider and beer
will be convenient and productive subjeCts
to supply the wants occasioned, perhaps,
for the very purpose of apparently juftify
ing an amplification of the excise tyranny.
Those who already pay for their home
made spirits, will not only agree to the
additional imposition, but give it counte- j
nance upon the principle of promoting an
equality of contribution ; and the second }
class will facilitate its extension, with fimi- I
lar views, to still more neceflary and more j
numerous objeCts, Let the present excise,
1 repeat, be once fully eflablifhed, and I
will engage that it will not be long on spi
rits aloue. It is not reasonable that it
should. When one part of the people of
any nation loses its liberty, past the hope
of recovery, it becomes the ready instru
ment of enslaving the reft : and thus it is
with respect to revenues raised by excise
upon one part of our home produce ; the
original imposition promotes, or rather en
sures a gradual extension to the other p.,rts.
It is to be conficlered, likewHe, tliat there
are no natural bounds or limits to the rite
that ifiay be laid on what is necefiary for
life. The ufe'of the articles merely luxu
rious depends upon the habits and appetites
ofthe people, which, as they may be di
verted or restrained, are subject to fame
limitation; but the consumption of neces
saries depends upon life itfelf ; for, who
can live without fait, candles, Stc. or
who, thinking himfelf free, will live with
out enjoying the lawful comforts which
arise from the culture of his farm. All
other direst taxes are limited in their own
nature. A tax upon improved land must
be within what it would rent for, or else
none would cultivate it ; a tax upon un
cultivated land must be less than its proba
ble increasing value, or none would own'it.
But the excise which the Roman Emperor
imposed upon urine, could not be evaded,
for it was founded on a call of nature
which must b;: obeyed. Many instances of
the extravagant rate of excises upon ne
ceifary articles in modern times might be
given ; but those which I have before men
tioned on fait and tobacco in France, where
the articles are produced, and where the
price of labor is very low, are fufficient ex
amples for my present purpose.
A third objection so the excise proceeds
from the coniideration that luxuries are,
comparatively, used by few : Hence, an
excise upon articles of that description
would not be fufficiently productive for the
uses and exigences of government. To
render it productive it must be laid on those
articles, which, from the manners or cir
cumstances of the people, are become ne
cessaries, and are in general use. This o
pinion isfupported by the examples of eve
ry foreign country, which has imposed an
excise ; and even by our own excise on
spirits made from home produce. By the
habits of the country this liquor was be
come necefiary to laboring people, and pre
paring it had become part ofthe business of
the farmer, as much as preparing his cider,
or any other fiipply, which his farm will;
produce. The object in laying the excise j
is not to promote health, as the canting ad-1
dress of the college of physicians advises,
nor to prevent drunkenness, as the Secreta
ry hints. The Secretary well knew that
the habits and circumltances of new settle
ments in particular, rendered the use of!
spirits in some degree necessary ; and the
rsafons that operate in favour of the pre- i
sent excise will necefl'arily extend to every 1
thing in a similar situation.
To prove that it is not inconsistent with
liberty, the report (page 2) asserts, that,
"it has not the features of other excise laws
--that there is not the summary and discre
tionary jurifdiCVion in the excise officers,
contrary to the course of common law, and
in the abridgment of the right of trial bv
jury—that there is not a genera! power in
the fame officers to search and inspect in
discriminately all thelioufes and buildings]
ofthe persons engaged in the business to
which the tax relates."
This I readily admit; but I hope the|
Secretary will also admit, that the law, as
it Hands, is not effectual. The truth is,
that many people, in a great part of seve
ral ftateo disregard it altogether ; some ap
parently submit to it, but while they keep
two Hills employed, enter only one of;
them; and others acquiesce for the present, j
iu confident expectation tiiat the law will:
be soon repealed.
I may venture to assert that the executi
on of the act will for ever be impracticable,
until those very powers are veiled in the!
officers, the want of which is the boast ofj
the report. No excise law in the .world.has
been effectual without them ; and no people
in the worldhave agreater averlionto excise
laws than the citizens or' the U.. States. If
then those powers are neccil'ary to render
excise laws practicable, as 1 firmly believe
they are ; and 1 have reason and ail experi
ence on my fide ; I expeCt the fccretary will
no longer contend that excise lawsare con
fident with iiberty. Any law that increases
crimes, punilhmeats, fines, seizures, and
confifcations, is injurious to the liberty and
1 eisfh.iring to the hsppinefs of the people.
lln all countries, where the excise has pre-
j vailed, it has ureated new crimes and
punishments, it has accumulated tines, fei-
Izures, and confifcations; and, by inevitable
jconfequence, these evils, which it cngen
jders, have proved injurious to the liberty,
I and ensnaring to the morals of the citizens.
I What instrument. indeed, can more effec
tually prepare a people for slavery, than
I that, which lets their interest in opposition
to their honesty, and which must either
jdeftroy their virtue or ruin their fortune
1 with its preflure. ?
Philad-. April 21. SIDNEY.
PRJ C E or STOCKS.
Si* per cents, per £. - - '20/.
Three ditto - - ji/6 to ;tf.
referred .ix ditto, - j if- ix/ 6
Final settlements, &c. 15 -i£
Indents - - 11/3
Half iliare Eank Stock 15 per cent advance.
PHILADELPHIA.
■ April 23, 1792.
By a veflel arrived here' ,on Friday last,
■ from the Cape, we learn that the remain
der of the 6coo troops, expeded for there-,
lief of St. Domingo, have reached that
• illand.
On Thursday laPr died at His lodgings in
' this city, Bigtree, one of the Indian
Chiefs of the live nations, that arrived here
about fix weeks since. His illness was not
of more than 20 hours continuance- —Hit
corpse was interred on Saturday.
On Wednesday evening last, a number of
disorderly persons aflembied round the Jail
in New-Ydrk, behaving in a riotous man
ner, breaking the lamps, &c.— Fortunately
the friends of legal restraint and good or
der, with the exertions of the police, pre
vented any dangerous excefles being com
mitted. Mr. lJuer, it seems, was their
■ object.
A New-York paper of Thursday inform?,
I that the Barbers of that city have raifcd the
price for {having from fix pence to eight
pence, on account of the extraordinary and
uniyerfal addition to the length of the chin,
that has taken place there since the late
failures.
Accounts from Pittsburgh, to the 14th
instant, mention several murders and de
predations, in addition to thofeftated in our
last, committed by some fculking parties of
Indians along the waters of the Ohio.
The extraordinary swell of the Sufque
hanna, during theprefent lpring, has affor
ded many large boats an opportunity of
coming full loaded down that river, having
all palled the various falls, rapids, &c. in
fafety.— One of these boats is 80 feet in
length, 14 wide, & had on board 1950 bush
els of wheat, a large quantity of hemp, &c.
We cgree with Camden (in the General Ad-
J vettifer of Saturday) that humanity is better plcsf
jed wiih the conduift of the judges of the Eiftern
I Circuit : but Cainden mud allow, that they too
; have, though in a delicate, manner, palled fen
i tcnce of unconftilutionality on the invalid law.—
jWe deny Camden's affection ; and afiert that the
| word " impeachment*, was several times men
tioned in the H. of R. although no motion was
t made on the fubjeft. We do not mean to muf
. fie up the judges any more than Congress, in the
| cloak of infallibility ■ we wish to fee l\cth parties
, amply clad, that it to fay, with the gaib of wif
[ dom and righteousness.The old cloak being worn
to rags (of which there is a great scarcity at pre
j sent) may be sent to the mills ; and when manu
factured into foolfcap paper, may be lifed for print
| ing panegyricks on the measures of government.
He mull be a venal wretch, indeed, who thinks
that becauft a man holds a lawful officc under
government, therefore he « obliged to approve
| and flatter the mod arbitrary m afures of that
• government.
j There are who praise without measure ;
because they probably conceive their inter -
| e ft_ might fuffer by a contrary conduct.
With an eye to the man, they approve kii
! work without attention to itsiutrinfic mer
rit. Were such believed, it might appear
that every thing is going for the bpft, and
that there is no room for amendment.
That there is wisdom displayed in our.pub
■ lie councils, no one can deny—that ween
| joy a considerable share of prosperity is evi
dent: But that some meafnres have pro
duced evils, experience teftifies, —that a
change of measures might bring about- a
change of circumstances is clear. —Then
i while there is room for improvement, Why
,be fatisfied with our present progress to
wards political prosperity ? [Gen. Adv.]
The Speaker of the Irish House of Com
mons w<rs infultedby a number of perfoijs,
who were irritated at being turned out of
the galleries of thru House—This piece
of intelligence was once only men
tioned in an American paper, entitled, the
j National Gazette —Ergo, it includes an ad
! monition to the citizens of the U. States,,
that they should, on a similar occafton, act
in the fame manner—excellent logic, truly i
* The Printing Office of the Na'ional Ga
zette is removed from No. 239, to '.09, High (or
Market) Street, aboveJiftk Street.
T)AN aivay on fVednefday night lafl y a Negro
Man, about twenty-three years old j bad on a
Tght coloured Jhort coat : took'with him a pair cf
gather breeches and a pair of green fluff do. a bee-
vtr hat half worn, narrow brim and deep crown j
a pair of boots j ftripeel cotton and Jilk fiockivgs-- •
he is flitn made—reads and writes a legible hand—-
has. I am informed) procured a fajs and certificate
of his being a free man. It is probtible he ivill
endewvor to get on board some I'rjjtl, either at this
place crNew-J ork. lie has a small fearr under
his rhin uecafior.ed by cutting out a wen. 1 will
give Forty Doha'? reward to any person who iviU
deliver htm to ire at this place, and pay all reafonn •
ble ixper.ces.'
ANDREW MOORE.
No. 11§ Sprace-Strtet,
April 23.rters, and the whole fabric vaalflies. They arc
the Jeaven that raifesthe bread of the ftockhold-
Crs. The misfortune is, it is so extensive as to
withdraw men from the solid pursuits and mode
rate profits of ufeful occupations into a vortex
of corruption and vice This is a complaint from
all quarters, and so very general, that I must be
lieve it has too much foundation.
This kind of gaming has ever been considered
as highly pernicious to the public morals. If it
is so," no benefits (if fuchdid exist) could compcn
fate the injury. To a republic whose existence
depends on a due proportion of disinterested vir
tue, such an over-dose of poison administered,
must either destroy the patient, or be thrown off"
by fotr.e violent and latent power of the consti
tution.
A love and veneration of equality is the vital
principle of free governments. It dies when the
general wealth is thrown into a few hands. The
efjett of flocks is to transfsr the fruits of the la
bours of the many, who are able to appreciate its
value by the difficulty of acquirement, and would
convert it into ufeful improvement, into the hands
of the opulent few who exchange them for foreign
luxuries, and consume in an hour, the labour of
indubious families for years. It preveßts a ge
neral diffufion of wealth by drawing it to a center,
and saps the foundation of a republican govern
ment, especially in a large continent.
In a young country, these effects of individual
opulence are particularly hurtful, Such men are
not only idle themselves, but they maintain nu
merous idle dependents and menial servants,
whose lives are consumed in ministering to their
luxuries, and whose services die the moment they
are rendered. Their want is felt in an unim
prwved, thinly populated country, where there
are no supernumerary hands—differently from
an old well-fettled state, where there are more
hands than employment. But of all opulence,
that of the wealthy stockholder is most fatal
to a youag country. Where a man's revenue
arises from landed property, it is. created by pro
ductive labour employed on the land, and the ne
ceflaries of life are encreafed as his income en
creafes. A3 his wealth depends on the value of
lome particular estate, it becomes his interest to
improve it. His private advantage becomes the
public prosperity. He also who employs his capi
tal in manufadlilres, encreafes thereby the aggre
gate of necelfary produ&ions $ and even he who
lends money on interest to individuals, generally
fele&s the industrious from motives of fafety, and
lb the general welfare.
But wealthy stockholders who have lent their
money to government, are interested in no par
ticular spot of land or manufa&ure. They im
prove nothing: ; but take something from all.—
They are citizens of the world oftener foreign
ers than natives. Attached to no country. At
thp.firft appearance of danger they fell out, and
link your credit at the moment it becomes eflen
tial. As yoar diftrefles encreafe, they fly you.
When the impending cloud of misfortune casts
its gloom beyond you, these fun-fliine friends dis
appear in a moment.
So far as foreigners are proprietors in our funds,
the enquiry into the operation, is truly interest
ing to the independence and prosperity of the
community. In peace you are tributary, in war
you are at their mercy. Great-Britain and Hol
land, allied as they are with their interest in our
funds, present an obje& that must be viewed with
concern*
How far our pecuniary interest is benefited is
also truly consequential. I have been some time
ago told, that they pofiefled eleven millions of the
ihirty-one, and from the proportion of purchase
made since, it was supposed they owned at least
one-half. A great deal of money ought to have
come in for this. Is this the fadt ? or have we
taken in exchange their 'gevv-gaws and luxuries,
and eaten up the "fiit of our land ? I fear the fatt
is so. Had their purchases been made with mo
ney, there must have been a demand for money
here, and exchange would have fallen. It is an
invariable tide-mark, to try the flux and reflux
of money. It has almost always been, I believe,
considerably above par, except one year when
there was a demand for produce ; then it fell at
once 15 per cent, below par. Money certainly
came then, and I believe one year's good price
for produce of more real advantage than any stock
that could be devised, or any price that could be
wiflied for it.
But this mode of employing money has redu
ced produce to nothing. It takes considerable
capitals to make the expensive and circuitous
voyages necefTary to vend our produce, and the
profits can neyer be large ; for the difference be
tween the price of the neceflaries of life, and raw
•Materials in different countries, will not bear
high commifiion or charges of transportation.
Thus I have considered all the boasted benefits
ef funding systems but one, and that is, the
strengthening of government—That, to a certain
extent, they may have this effe&, may be true ;
but, carried beyond it, they certainly operate in
a contrary diieftion. Let the interest fettle
chiefly in the hands of foreigners, or let the agri
cultural interest, which, in a young countrv,
must always preponderate, become alarmed at its
extent, jealous of a monied interest adting in
oppofiti&n to their wiflirs and principles*, and it
may destroy a government that otherwise might
have secured the public happiness : but these are
trifling circumstances. The position may bejuft
ly rcduced to this t A good government will al
ways be supported without these aids by the good
sense of a great majority of the members, and a
bad one ought not to be supported by it. Now
the mifchief is, that these people support bad go
vernments more willingly than good, because they
are better paid for it j they can make better bar
gains with them.
There is a ftili further confederation that will
affecV this country powerfully, and is peculiar to
it. Our people will not purchase to hold at the
prices stocks have risen to : Foreigners have the
market to themftlves, and they must finally fet
tle with them j this prevents their lending money
to us in peace on the terms we obtained, when
under the preflure calamity, and had no
right to expedt the cftablifhment of our indepen
dency. They purchase into our funds instead of
lending : this is the efFe& of the irredeemabl<
quality of the stock j it deprives ul-of every bene
lit of the rife of credit, and gives the market tc
foreigners. The strange terms on which it i:
confiituted, must keep its value always unsettled,
as the redemption is rendered so contingenr ; thi:
also deprives it of every ufeful quality as a medi
um of intercourse, and must keep it ai> otjed oi
barter.
What would be our operation but for this irre
deeniable quality ? why, as our credit rose a: inai
ket, we do as Great Britain has done
form new loans at a lower interest, and pay of,
the debt at the higher interest j this isdone with
out a finking fund on hand, and shews the folK
of those that fay we cannot redeem now as fait a
we have the liberty. In Great Britain, soon a>
ter the establishment of their funding system, the
effected new loans, and in 1717 reduced the % an
6 per cents to 5, and 1111727, they reduced the 5 1
4, and from 1750 to 1757, they reduced the 4 to 3
which was equal to the finking of half their deb. .
and from the firft creation of their threes, in 1731
to 1 753, they averaged at market, par, that i
were equal to gold and silver : by these operations,
there was no injury to the creditor in reality, foi
he could, at the end, fell the iool.that bore 3 pe.
cent, for as much money as he lent governmen
at 8. At this moment, if it were not for the ir
redeemable quality, we could, if our credit ii
worth 4 per cent, as we are told, make an opera
tion that would be equal to th efinking of our debt
nearly one half in value, on the fame plan tha;
Great Britain has pursued so fucccfsfully ; and the
public creditors are really not benefited by this
irredeemable quality ; for although it raises tin
price of fixes with foreigners, yet it keeps dowr
that of threes ; which, by a reduction, such as 1
mention, and the liberation ofour commerce from
high duties, must soon be on equal terms to what
they were in Great Britain in the infancy of thei<
funding system—that is near par.
In fine, the debt is to be deplored, but it muO
be paid : let as much of it be paid, and as fact ai
pofiible j these are the true principles of public
credit. Let us reprobate the idea of encreafing oi
continuing it when it can be avoided, upon tht
principles of any political enterprize. It
strange to be called upon to fund it now, ant;
provide the funds hereafter : it looks too much
like taking an undue advantage of a future legil
lature, and ha* a suspicious and low lurking a!
peCt, when we know that we are really not the
true representatives of the people. Are we afr»ii
that a real representation of the people would adi
otherwise ? If we are, we ought to hesitate. Ai
the virtue of this continent is certainly not con
fined to this feflion : we may trust that any suc
ceeding representatives will be as just. and wife a
ourselves : as they are to find the means of pay
ing, let them agree on the term 9 of the contraCt
To the Yeomanry of the United States.
CONGRESS have been officially informed
that u the embarrafiments of our externa
trade, have led to serious reflections on the ne
cefiity of enlarging the sphere of our domeftk
commerce ; the restriCtive regulations which in
foreign markets abridge the vent of the encreafing
surplus ofour agricultural produce, fervc to beget
an earned desire, that a more extensive demand
for that surplus may be created at home." *•
Commercial regulations, restriCtions, and pro
hibitions, may be regarded as the bane of Eu
rope. They are universally supported by tht
clamorous importunity of partial interests, or by
the prejudices and contemptible cunning of finan-
who seldom poftefs any real intention tc
promote the general welfare, Colbert, the con
fidential minister of Lewis XIV. did infinite in
jury to France by his desire of subjeCting th(
commerce, the manufactures, and all the anions
of the People, to Financial calculations and regu
lations. That minister, by the tarif of 16673
imposed very high duties upon a great number o!
foreign manufactures : Upon his refufing to mo
derate them in favor of the Dutch, they in 1671
prohibited the importation of the wines, bran
dies and manufactures of France 5 and it ha:
been thought that the war in 1672, was in pari
occasioned by these mutual injuries. The peaa
of Nimiguen put an end to it in 1678, by mode,
rating some of these duties in favor of the Dutch
who in consequence took off their prohibitions
It was about the fame time that the French an<
English began mutually to oppress each other'
induftr). In 1697 the English prohibited the im
portation of bone-lace, the manufacture of Flan
dersj the government of that country prohibite<
in return the importation of Englilh woolens.
The motto, of the French economists—Fair
le bien le recevoir—is as applicable to nation
as to individuals ; yet in this enlightened perio<
do we observe the molt poli/hed nations doing eve
ry injury in their power to each other, with thi
unjust and absurd idea of deriving advantage t<
themselves, by circumscribing or destroying thi
advantages of their neighbors.
Whillt we are exacting a prohibitory tonnage
duty from foreigners, and annually encreafing
the duties on their produce and manufactures, car
we expeCt that they will not retaliate, and in
their turn obstruCt the progress of our trade b)
embarralTments particularJy. injurious to the a
gricultural interest. If we find that such retalia
tion on the part of foreigners has aCtually taken
place, and that our commercial regulations anc
restriCtions operate to injure ourseLves, by pre
venting a sale for the turplus produce of our a
griculture—why not adopt a genuine system of
policy, founded on the rights of man, and at
once remove the evil, by declaring a totaL freedom
of commerce within the United States ? Is it not
more than piobable that other nations would re
taliate real benefits, as ivell as insults apd injuries.
A just and enlightened policy, of this kind, would
be fuily adequate to remove the complaint.
Experience juftifies the afl'ertion, that a perfeCt,
free commerce, would not only take off the sur
plus produce of our farms, but woultf ftimylate to
industry, and would ensure the prosperity of our
country. The small islands of St. Thomas and
Santa Cruz, were under the government of an ex
clusive company,-j- which had the sole right both
of purchasing the surplus produce of the colonists,
and of fupplvlng them with such goods, of othe!
countries, as they wanted j arid which, therefore,
both in its purchases and tales, had not only the
power of opprefting them, but the greatest temp
ation to do so. The government of an exclufivc
:>>mpany of merchants, is perhaps the word of all
governments, for any country whatever. It was
lot, however, able to stop, altogether, the progrefa
f these colonies, though it rendered it more flow
and languid. The late King of Denmark diflolv
d this company, and since that time, the proCpe
ity of these colonies has been very greaf. Cura
: >a and Euftatia, the two principal iilands belong
ing to the Dutch, are free ports, open to the iHips
>f all nations : and this freedom, in the midst ol
• tter colonies, whose ports are open to those o(
•"»f nation only, has been the great cause of the
rofperity of two barren iilands. Mr. Adam
Smith, in his Wealth of Nations, speaking of the
aufesof the profperitv of new colonies, observes,
•' That plenty of good land, and liberty to man
■iage their own affairs, their own way, leem to be
>e two great causes of the prosperity of all new
olonies."
But, as if the measures of Congress were ever to
je dire&ed by the momentary fluctuation of af
iirs, itjis proposed, that to afford relief to the
farrrer, recourse fliould be had to manufaEiuring
AabliJbmentSy under the particular patronage and
protection of government; and that Congress
should grant exclusive privileges, bounties and pre
miums, to a fewmonied men, to encourage them
to eftabliih extensive manufactories, and to enable
them to import from Europe, necefiary machines
and workmen. Should this scheme take place,
under a falfepretext of serving the agricultural in
\erefi, a valuable class of citizens, personally en
gaged in ufeful manufactures, will be facrificed-to
the wealthy few.
The yeomanry of America do not require this
violation of the rights of their fellow citizens:
We only desire, what we have a right to demand—
i free unrestriCted sale for the produce of our farms.
A Farmer,
March 2S.
* Secretary of the Treasury on Manufactures*
•f* The tonnage duty of Congrefs t places the wholt
of the American trade in a Jimilar situation.
'This day is publijbed Price Cijb.
By MAT HE W CAREY.
iVo, j 18, Market-Jlrect, near fourth Jireet 9
The Ladies' Library,
Containing
I* Miss More's EfTa.ys
2. Gregory's Legacy
3» Lady Pennington's advice
4« Marchioness of Lambert's advice
5. Swift's Letter to a new marriea Lady
6. Miss Chapone oq Command of,temper
7. More's Fables for the Ladies.
Said CARET has lately publijhcd
1. M* Fingal, an epic poem, 2/9 1-2
2. Blair's Sermons, complete in two vols 15f.
3. Neckar's treatifeon Religious Opinions, 6/
4. Examination of Sheffield's Observations, 4/$
5. American Cojiftitutions, 4ft
6. Douway Bible— neat, 6 dol., elegant 50/2
7. Vade Mecum, 1/10 1-2
8. Charles Grandifon abridged, 1/3
9. Humphrey's poems, bound 2/6, in blue pa
per 1/10 1-2
10. American Jest Book, in 2 parts, bound, 4ft
11. SeleCt Poems, j/3
12. Think Well On't, jfio t-s
13. Beauties of Poetry, British and American, 6j
14. Beattie's elements of moral science* 5/7 1-2
15. The Christian Economy, i/'io 1-2,
*„* Sets of the American Museum.
AS several gentlemen in different parts of thi
United States, have been heretofore difappointeti
in their applications for complete sets of the Ame
rican Museum, the printer informs the public, tha.
be is engaged in reprinting the deficient numbers oj
the work, and has noiv and mill henceforiuari
have a corjlant supply of sets on hand ; J'uib gen
tlemen, therefore, atpleafe, maybe fnrnifhed ivitl
sets neatly bound, in ten •volumes, at ftxteen dollars
This -work •will be found to contain at leali a
great a ■variety of political, agricultural, and mi
scellaneous e/J'ays as any ever published in America.
Offaid Carey maybe had, tvholefale and retail
ißibles, Tefaments, Spelling-Books,Primers, Quills
Ink-Powder, IVriting-P aper of various kinds
Bonnet-Paper, Pocket- Books, Ink-Stands, Mefj'ag,
and playing cards, &c (Sc. Otiazv
WhJhingUm, in the Territory of Columbia.
A PREMIUM
OF joo dollars, or a medal of that value
at the option of the party, will be giv
en by the Commifiioners of the Federa
Buildings to the person who, before, tin
fifteenth day of July next, shall produce tc
them the mod approved plan, if adopted bj
them, for a Prelident's house to be ereftec
in this city. The site of the building, i;
the artist will attend to it, will of cpucfe
influence the afpecb and outline of hisplan.
and it's destination will point out to hirr,
the number, size, and distribution of the
apartments. It will be a recommendatioi:
of any plan, if the central part of it may be
detached and erecled for the present, witl:
the appearance of a complete whole, and
be capable of admitting the additional parts,
in future, if they (hali De wanting r Draw
ings will be expected of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and feflionf
through the building in such directions a;
may be necessary to explain the interna!
Itruilure ; and an eltimats of the cubicfee!
of brickwork, composing the whole maCs of
the wails. Tii£. Commissioners.-
March 14, 1798.
Wajhington, in the Territory ef Columbia.
A PREMIUM
OF a lot in this City to be designated by
impartial judges and 500 dollars ; or a
medal of that value, at the option of the
party, will be given by the Commissioners
of the Federal Buildings, to the person,
who, before the fifteenth day of July 1792,
{hall produce to them the most approved
plan, if adopted by them, for a Capitol to
be erected in this city, and 250 dollars, or
a medal for the plan deemed next in merit
to the one they Jhall adopt. The building
to be of brick, and to contain the following
apartments, to wit. c _ . _
A conference room 7 Sufficient to ,
A room for the Re- i accommodate
prefentatives J3™ persons
A lobby or antichamber to the latter. '
A Senate room of 1200 square feet
area.
An antichamber or lobby to the last. i
12 rooms of 600 square feet area, each, for
committee rooms and clerks offices, to be
of half the elevation of the former. Draw
ings will be expected of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and feftions
through the building in such directions a»
may be neceflary to explain the internal
structure, and an eltimate of the cubic feet
of brickwork compofmg the whole mass of
the walls. The Commissioners.
March 14, 1792
Sales at Au&ion,
By M'FARRAN & DUNLAP,
At the Merchants' Coffee-houfe, in New-York,on
Wednesday the 25th of April next, at is o'clock,
CT'llAt •valuable and well known Grift Mill and
Farm, late the property of Abraham De Peyjler,
deceased ; near Fifh-hll landing, in Du-tchefs coun
ty., fevtnty miles from this. city, upon the Hudson or
North river, 'The m 'IU-boyje is 3% by 80 feet, has
one pair French burr, and one pair Efopui Jhnes ,
new and of an approved quality ; a reeling Jcreen,
fanning mill, and a complete set of flour bolts, turn
ing by water, all of which are new and in perfect
order } as also every other part of the work, having
lately undergone a thorough repair. The fir cam, a,
never Jailing one, capable, cf turning in addition f.
the present, a fuilery and Jaw mill, for which the
situation affords proper conveniences, and very ad
vantageous, the wfiters of the Hudson flowing up t*
the mill-tail, at which a vessel drawing 6 feet wa
ter, may load and unload, and in the beji wheat
country in thefate. The dwelling is large, commo
dious, and well ftnifbed, built of brick and Jlone, 39
by 50 feet, pleafavtly situated within sixty yards of
the mill, with a hdndfome garden in front, and an
excellent faring of water, and a new well built
Dutch barn $ also a fniall bouse at a convenient dij•
tance from the mill, calculated to accommodate a
tradesman. The farm conjrjls of inclu
ding the mill Jirta.pt, about 140 acres of which is an
excellent grove of growing timber, lying in a body
not more than half a mile from , the mill, and a good
Jbut of mowing ground, all properly a Jmall 9
but good orchard, producing abundance of the hefk
apples, with a number of other fruit trees> dispersed
pear the house.
This is truly a valuable and advantageouJJy fitu
pted property, which renders it an objeß worthy tie
attention of a man of business, when it may be ex
tended to any length. One half of the purchafi mo
ney will be required on deivery of the deeds, (when
poffejfton will be given) the other half in one year,
with interejl, feeured by a mortgage cn the prcmife.
An indisputable title will be given—for further
particulars enquire of Mejfieurs MlFdrran and
Qunlap, Peter A. Schenck > New-York j or of Ijaac
De Peyfler, felUr, on. the premijes*
New-York, March 31- a.a.w,
WHEREAS a certain GEORGE STJLLt
who formerly went by the name 0/*! George
Howard, late of Speedwell iron works, in JVvjl*
JerJey, abjc ended cn the of April, 1792, and
took with him the wife and child of tbefubf riber ;
the child being about fifteen months old, and a ft
male. Said George Still is a man of light complex
ion, with fandj hair, black eyes, marked with the
small-pox, about fix feet two inches high, and spare
in his make. Had cn when he went away, a bot
tle-green caat, ribbed velvet breeches, a .spotted
waiji-coat, nnxt coloured brownish dockings, Jhoes
rather old, with square plated buckles, He may be
Jri sen cr eight a; ui.thirtyyears of age.—Tie woman,
Mary Hunfinger, wife .to the fubferiber, is of a
fair complexion, with light blue eye:, brown hair,
and middling fixe: had on when she went away a
dark Jpottcd callico Jb'ort-gown, with a Jlriped
homejpun petticoat, and check apron, with half
worn /hoes,: and a pair cf eld Jquare silver buckles j
foe also took with her a new homejpun broadcloth
cioak, lead coloured, bound with bluefi'k bindings
the' hood lined withpale blue filk t and an old fa~
(hioned hat. The %hild had one callico frock, and
a grc.en bonnet. The woman took more clcthes with
her. and pojfibly might change her suit : Jhe also
took with.her. fix large silver tea-Jpoons, marked
I. B. M. Whoever takes up said George Still,
with the woman ar.d chi.d, shall have Six Pounds
reward, with every reasonable charge, paid . by the
fubferiber ; cs Thi ee Pounds for the man only ; and
Three Pounds for the weman and child I do
hereby forewarn all persons not to t ruff aid Mary
Hunjwger cn my account, as I will pay no debts of
her e antra fling.
PETER HUXSING'ER*
Lower. Freehold, Mov.vwulh Cbunfy r
Eajl Ncw-Jc,rjey, April 5, 1792. law.
P R I NT EJDiiBY
C H:I.L D S AN.D SW A I N.'Ei
AT THKIR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIGH-STREET
N£AR
PHILADELPHIA-
J
P 2,
o
o o
2 3
ft «
©" o
? CT
n