[Numb, i 2 of Vol. ll.]
The UNIFORM FEDERALIST.
Number 11.
A Funded debt divides tl.e whole cf
the individuals of every communi
ty in which it exills, into two great de
scriptions of persons, the debtor who
pays, and the creditor who receives.
It of course establish s two confiifting,
and irrecor.cileable interests : the aggre
gate furn pad by the debtors composes the
whole fund for dividends to the creditors ;
it is therefore he interell of the former that
this aggregate sum should be as small as
poflible, and of the smallest pofiible dura
tion ; the interell of the latter is in difecl
proportion to >'ts increase and duration.
Every individual who does not poffsfs
evidences of such debt fufficient by the
annual interell thereof, to pay all the an
mial demands of the government, is a
debtor; every one who pofTefies more
th<-n fufficient for this purpose, is a credi
tor. Hence it is, that every individual is
the community becomes essentially inter
eftcd in all quefti&nf, which aff-C't the ex
iftence and duration of the debt. The
government is the constituted arbiter be
tween tt.efe d.ffertng intercity. It is wor
thy of remark, that some ftr ng, diftin
guilliing charaAeriftics exist, b tween
this conflicting interest of debtor and cre
ditor, as well in regard to its operations
and effcls, upon these two defeiipticms of
persons as in regard to its operations and
effects upon the government. The inter
eft of the debtor is ind reft net diffulivc J
it is indirect, as the advancement is firft
made to the government through the medi
um of public demands and cons quent
public taxes ;it ojtenjibly a debt to the
government, it is really a debt from one in
dividual to another ; the government is
the organ of transmission. Its difFufive
o _
ntfs is in proportion to the many who
labor and pay, compared with the few
who receive and spend.
The interest of the creditor is diredt
and sensible 5 he receives immediately
from the public, and a portion of his for
tune de; ends upon his receipts ; any fluc
tuations in the quantum or value of which
he inllantly feels, and is able to estimate
The interell of the few therefore is more
impuiiive and llimulating in its operations
and eKidls, than that of the many, pro
portioned to its greater magnitude and
more dire it propinquity to ea.h individual
afFeded by it.
The government should be, but never is,
an impartial arbiter ; the few are always
the favourites, and a conspiracy has ever
been known to exist between them and
the government, to increase their wealth
from the labor of the many. Two causes
may be assigned for this ess £1 ; the one
arises from the importunate and ingeni
ous indultry of the few, who are general
ly the moil enlightened and wealthy part
of the community, ard uho always pof
fefs talents and leisure to present them
selves to the government in the moll se
ducing posture. To this they are alfb
impelled by the ftron-geft poffiMe incen
tives, the hope of gam and the Jear of loft.
The many, on the other hand, who are
necessarily engaged in their common oc
cupations, pcftefs neither leisure nor ta
lents to p: efent their claims to justice in
even plauf.ble terms,of are they induced
to fuchaftive exertion by the impulfeof an
immediate interest. The other cause is,
that the government is always admir.ifter
ed by persons feleited from the class of
wealthy and enlightened, who, ast under
the fame impulse, and poflefsfympathetic
sensations with the fame description of per
sons ; and it is natural to conclude, that
all addresses to them from the fame class
of the community, will be pleafurably re
ceived, and favourably interpreted ; while
the just claims of the many, are often not
mentioned, and never favorably received.
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
SATURDAY, December 8, 1792
This proccfs of reasoning has been
amply verified by the government of the
United States, the molt popular at pre
sent existing in the world. No ftioiu er
evidence of its orthodoxy could esift,
than the indultry and adJrcfs which have
been displayed through the medium of
the pve'fes throughout the United States,
just previously to the ele&ions of molt of
th,tofficers of the government and par
ticularly of president and vice president.
The firft objett of thi3 defcriplion of per
sons is to ftitle the voice of the public wilt.
One chief mean employed to this end, is,
to accomplilTi the re elections of th- fanve
persons, to whole munificence they are in
debted for pad favours, founded tipo:i the
reafouable hop? of a perpe 1 u tion there
of, and probably an addition 'hereto ;
and the rather, as these benefa&ions are
composed of the productive labor 6f the
many, arid therefore coil the donors no
thing. Thishope ij further strengthened
by the confederation, that fame ot the per
sons in office at the time of dlablilhtng
the funding fyllem, are supposed to have
made themselves mutual adventurers in the
fame velTcl ; and a doubt cannot be en
tertained, but that the voyage will be ren
dered as produ£live as the iuterelted can
make it. A change of men might produce
a change of measures: 't would certainly
produce a greater probability of having
the pullic will pronounced; and rotation:, in
iffice, to a certain degree, seem essential
to the completion of this ol jest. If the
people be not precluded from all (hare in
the government, and public opinion, be
admitted in any degree to influence its
administration, rotation is a desirable ob
je£l : it is peculiarly so at this time in
thi-govemme'tit of the United States, be
cause it is of recent date an 1 the great
measures have never yet been thoroughly
contemplated and decided on by the peo
ple. The individuals who gave birth to
the funding system, reared it to its pre-,
sent state, and decorated it with its various
collly trappings, are unfit judges cf its
merits or defers : they poffefe a parent's
fondnefs for it, particularly th fe wh'o
have been amply remunerated for the toil,
employed in its fabrication The otnei j
al attention of others therefore should b-j
drawn to it before the public ivill can with !
certainty be pronounced about it. Tn i
pu fuance of their great objedt, the inter- j
ejted advocates Tor a continuance of govern
mental treafui'es, with a quickened a£tivi
ty, proportioned to the approach ot elec
tiorts, have had reCourse to various expe
dients, some of them know ingly founded *
in mifr prefen'ntions, others heterodox
in principle, and all ,of them intended t
deceive the public; conceiving that if
they Chould happily obfeure the truth and
outlive the present, fimiUr expedients
will present themselves, before the next
succeeding ele<fli>.ns; an i it is here ftri
kingly remarkable,that the circumstance in
a popular government, which readers it
the interejl of a lar. e organized body of mo
r.led men, to prevent the due exertion of
the pub ic will, neither promyes additional
(lability and duration to its existence, nor
justice and tranquility in its adminillrati n.
Amongst these various expedient , the
government of the United States and its
administration have t;een firft in order
made the futjefts of the mo!l fanciful pa
negyric ; to them has been boldlv afcri
bedail the existing prosperity of America,
and the funding fyltem has been fixed cn
as solely producing or principally condu
cing to this prosperity, These however
are the mere Erbitrary diflums of writers
acting under the impulfeof interejl, who
difoain to show the fmallelt relation
or connexion between the imputed causes
and the produced effects. Notwithstand
ing the fubtiity and minuteness, of the
various causes of the wealth and prosperity
of nations, and often their remoteness
from their effects ; yet in America at pre
sent, causes the moit palpable and obvi.
ous present themfelvcs, fufficient at kaft,
to account for thr.t degree of prosperity
at present enjoyed. An extended, Fer
til-', Cinexhaulted country ; the adive, ufi
int.rrupted ir.duftry of indiv duals ; the
bbflings of pea_-e, and laws securing to
eacii individual the exclusive use of t':e
products of his own laborj 'he present
diitradted (late of Europe, and foma of
the rflands, See Sic. these are the great
cause , the effects of which cannot be
itiiftd'.- n but which are truly afcribable
to tke Itate governments, by wliofe inter
nal regu'ations they exist, dud upon which
the government of the (Jnit-ed States re
flefi9 but a nega.ivd influence. In re*
irftr 1 to the Fmifring fy.'iem, it is demon-
Itra! !<*, that it has a conflicting operation
witii-thef? catlfes as fur at lead as it serves
to encreafe the number of wiproiluflive,
and Uffin t e number of pradu&ve labour
ers ; added to this, the real injury fullain
ed bv Amtricaa citizens in their paper ne
gotiations with foreigners, and theencreaf
ed extravagance resulting from that fyllem.
A rational and impartial enquiry into the
real causes of the present wealth and pros
perity of the United States, is a circum
fta-.-ce devoutly to be wished for, as it
would serve mofc effedlually to elUmate
truly, the merits or demerits of the pall,
aud afford great lights to the future ad
min ift ratlgn of the government. Ail
those who have in any manner opposed the
recommended measures of government,
have next been made the themes of com
mon declamation ; the molt ir.lidious and
malevolent motives have been aferibed to
them, and circiimltances an 1 surmises ad
duced as evidences of these mot ives, which
wc.iMhardlv furnifh food for the fouled
jf tfy to fuhfift on : they l.atre * been
branded wi h the truly unpopular epithet
of nnt)federcl x and 6!Ling left than the total
o-ve. throw of the gover ment isfaidtobe
theit objedt: All diltinition between ?.bafe
oppiifithtt to the con lUuHtm government & a
vi; t .ous opposition to tinconfl.it utional or
tin wife tneafurcs, h-s been discarded, and
a fidtitious igitniaWceof such a diitin&iori
affc&ed : ambition has been imputed to
this opposition, as the sole irapulfe to
their conduct, and yet no probable objedt
has been or can be fixed on, (or the eser
cife of this ambition.
The diftiniftion bet\Veeri an opposition
to thegovernment, and the meaiuies of
government is lelf evident, and needs not
the aid of argument to prove it. Mel
fures ha e been objected to, as Operating
gainjl, and not infuppvrt ot the conltitii
don and a devoted attacHm< n't to . the
conltitution, i; the true impirlfe cf this
opposition: and have there been no
grounds to ju'lify this oppofi.ion ? One;
hill affedting tne fird principle of the con- j
iiitution ; the principle of representation,
having palled both Houses of ,C«ngre!s,
was nrrffted in its final palTage b. the
Profident, solely upon grounds of uncon
rtitutionality ; and upon its return to the
House of Representatives, where it origi
nated, his objections were -confirmed by
the vote of a majority. It «'as the An
gular fate of this bill to have been rejec
ted u on constitutional objedtions, both
before and after tha refufal of the assent
of the P; efident 5 and so plain was the
queftiofl in favour of (hat decision, that it
hardly furnilhecl a loop for the human
mind to hang a doubt on- Another sdt,
a'ter having received the aflent of the
President, has been declared unconstituti
onal by the judges of several of the cir
cuit 0 Urts ; and it is to be r memboted,
that other adtj have been flrongly fufpeit
ed, and that tut f.w have yet pafl'ed
through the ord'al of a judicial decision.
Other propofitio' a have been Itrongly rc
commended; but being too glaringly
unconftitutio: al, have failed in their pio
grefs in one or other of the two Houses.
These undeniable fa'dts evidence a free
dom in the conitrudt.on of the Conllitu
tion which may aUcalt juft'fy tbeexer^fe
[Total No. ii 6.]
of opinion in oppofiticn, will out incurring
thefoulimputati.onofadefign todeftroy the
government. Somepropofed measures havi
been objected to as being in themselves
unvv fe, and others as being ltrfs wife than
übilitut.es which were suggested. Thfi
policy of political me;:furcs, however, fur
"ilh such feope for variation in human o
picion, that it will not be attempted here
to show, whether 'he adopted or rejected
meafur s be ;he mcft wife and politic ; but
a difference of opinion in regard to their
policy, furnifhes no bttter evidence of im
pure motives, than the exercise of opini
on upon constitutional conftru&ions.
If tie term ar.tifederal be intended
to be applied to any part of the present
Congress and by it, is meant the impu
tation of a with or dcfign to destroy, or
even to weaken the influence of the ge
neral government, it may, with certainty,
be pronounced, that its application is
wh ;ly unfounded, and that there is not
i.n individual in the present Congrefgj
who, in the administration of the go
vernment, would not go'to the utmost li»
rniu of the fpecificd authorities contained
in the constitution. The trui: queftiorl
whicii seems to have agita'ed Congress
upon this pdifct is, w: ether union can be
more effectually secured, and the influence
of the government better preserved, by a
ftrift attention to the demarcations of the
fperified authorities in the constitution ;
or by boldly disregarding all limitations
and redactions, to a/fume the exercise of
any autltorry, which it is conceived may
have a tendency to .lability or energy, and
to (hield such afTutnplion under th - indefi
r.it andfophifticated do£lritleS of 'implica
tion ? It is pofiible that diftrulls on each
fide of this qucftionj may have been car
ried to extremes. To one paity have
been imputed too great timidity, and mo
deration coupled with some latent dcfign j
for which, however, it is impossible to
find an objedt } and it is inferred by the
other, that the influence of the govern
ment uill be weakened by the inefficacy'
of such meafuree. To the other has been
imputed a rafii, ur.conftitutional afTuniDti
-011 of authorities, fpringmg from two of*
the moil irrtfiftable passions in the human
bread; the love of dominion in all, and the
L-ve of gain in fotne of-that party; and
it is inferred, that the influence of the go
vernmsnt may net only be lefFened, but
the government uidically changed, or ac
tu liy deltroyed by that enterpiizing, in
trepid policy, which disdains to be hem
med in by any pnrchment demarcations
whatever, particularly when this policy is
impelled by the interest of the few, con
flicting the differing interest? cf the many.
On which fide of this question wisdom or
policy will ultimately be found, time and
experience can only determine with cer
tainty : on which fide f-ivorn duty and rec
titude of mo i ves appear* may be decided
with certainty at this moment.
The characters of individuals, public!
and private, have been deemed proper in
ftrtiments in the hands of one party to ef
fect their great objects, and permanently
to f cure their interefls. Two perform
have been indecently fleeted : the one by
; ::amt, the other by allusions too ftro/ig to
|be miitakf 11. They have been termed the
leaders of all oppofnion, ard to them has
been imputed the design of subverting th«
government, and dismembering the union;
of converting order into iff :r tier, regular's
ty into Confvfiav, peace into -war.
Not to mention that these two perlfln9
have ever been diftinguilUed rfs lovers and
promoters of order, are hot desperate in
their cireumftances, and could not be im
pelled to such obje.&s by any species of
interest or Smbilion> whatever $ it is sin
gularly remarkable that they may be
said tt> be. emphatically the plants cf
peace and to floutifh only in the ftiadfi
of the mild, social and philosophic vir
tues ; that they shrink from the bla2ing
[For remainder fee lajl page. 2TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
November 30, 1792.
Sir,
J HAVE the honor to tranjmit herewith a report,
pursuant to tivo resolutions of the Houje nf Repre
sentatives, one of the x\ft tnjt. refpefting the redemo
tior. of the public debt, the other of the zid injtant,
refp effing the reimburjrmtnt of the loan made of the
bank of the United States, purjuant to the eleventh
feSiion of the ast by which it is incorporated, and
to be, ivith the mojl perfect refptfl,
Sir,
Your mcjl obedient,
and mojl humble fervanty
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the 'Treasury.
The Honor able the Speaker
of the Houje of Reprejentativai.
JN obedience to two resolutions of the House of
Repiefentatives, one of the 21ft instant, direCt
ing the Secretary of theTrcafury to report a pfci
{or the redemption of 1 > much of the public debt,
asbythe aCt,intitul ed," An aCt making provilioji
for thed.*bt of the United States," the United
States have reserved the right to redeem—the
other of the Z2d instant, directing him to report
the plan of a provirton for the reimbursement ot
the loan made of the bank ot the United S tates,
pursuant to the nth le&ion of the aCt intitul
ed, " An aCt to incorporate the
the bank of the United States,"—-The said Se
cretary refpeCtfully submits the following Re
port.
THE expediency of taking mcafures for the
regular redemption of the public debt, ac
cording to the right which nas been reserved to the
government, being wileiy predetermined, by the
resolution of the House of Representatives refer
ring the subjeCt 10 the Secretary, nothing remains
sot him, but to endeavor to seleCt and submit the
moll eligible means of providing for the execution
of that important object.
With thit view, the firlt enquiry, which natu
rally presents itfelf, is, whether the existing reve
nues are, or are not, adequate to the purpole ?—
The estimates which accompany the report of the
Secretaiy of the 14th inltanr, will lhew, that dur
ing .he continuance ot the present inaian war, the
appropriations,for interelt and the demands for the
current service are likeiy to exhautt the produCt
of the exiting revenue* $ though they afford a
valuable surplus beyond the permanent objects of
expendituie, which, it is noped, may ere long be
aovan applied to accelerate the extinguifh
xnent of the debt.
m ihe mean time however, and until the refto
ratiou of peace, the employment of that resource,
in this way, mult of recertify be lulpended—and
cither the business of redemption mult be deferred,
or recourse mud be had to other expedients.
But did no luch temporary necefiity, for reform
ing to other expedients, exilt, the doing of it would
itill be recommended by weighty considerations.
It would appear, in the abstraCt, advifeable, to
leave the surplus of the prelent revenues free, to
be applied to such casual exigencies as may from
time to time x>ccur—to occafienal purchases of
the debt when not exhauited by such exigen
cies, to the payment of interest ©n any balances,
which may be found due to particular states, upon
the general fettleinent of accounts, and finally to
the payment of interelt on the deferred part of the
debt, when the period for such pay ment arrives.
There is a reasonable prospeCt, that if not divert
ed, it will be found adequate to the two last im
portant purposes.
Relinquilhirg then the idea of an immediate
application of the present revenues to the object
in view—iC remains to examine what other modes
are in the option of the legislature.
Loans, from time to time, equal to the sums
annually redeemable, and bottomed on the fame '
revenues, which are now appropriated to pay the
interest upon those sums, after themlelves as one
expedient, which may be employed with a degree j
of advantage. As there is a probability of bor- j
rowing at a lower rate of- interelt, a material lav- '•
ing would rtfult ; and even this refouice, if none ;
better could be devised, ought not to be neglected. ]
But it is obvious, that to rely upon this lefource
alone would be to do little towards the final exo- j
neration of the nation. To Itop at that point'
would consequently be neither provident nor fa- *
tisfaCtory. The interests as well as the expecta
tions of the union requiie.fomething more effec
tual.
The eftablifliment of additional revenues is the
remaining resource. This, if the bufinels is to
be undertaken in earnest, is unavoidable And a
full confidence may realonably be entertained,that
the commumcj will fee with fatisfaCtion the em
ployment of those means, which alone cm be ef
fectual, for accomplishing an end, in itfelf foim- j
portant, and so much an objeCt of general desire.
It cannot fail to be universally felt, that if the (
end is to bs attained,the neceflary means must be ,
employed.
it can only be expected that care be taken to ,
choose such as are liable to feweft objections, and j
that in the modifications of the business, in other
respects, due regard be had to the present and pro- <
grefiivecircumltances of the counrry.
A (fuming it as the basis of a plan of redemption, ,
that additional revenues are to be provided, the j
further enquiry divides itfelf into the following
branches : J
I. Shall a revenue be immediately constituted,
equal to the full sum which may at present be re. j
deemed, according to the terms of the contract ?
11. Shall a revenue be constituted from year t
to year, equal only to the interest of the sum to c
be redeemed in each year, coupling with this ope
ration an annual loan, commenlurate with such t
sum ?—-Or,
111. Shall a revenue be constituted each year, f
so much exceeding the interest of the sum to be d
redeemed, as to be fufficient, within a fhortdefi
nite term of time, to dilcharge the principal itfelf j
coupling with this operation also, a/i annual loan, n
equal to the sum to be annually redeemed, and r
appropriating the revenue created to its discharge, c
within the term which (hall have been predeter
mined ? k
The firft plan, besides being completely effectu
al, would be eventually molt economical j but 0
considering to what a magnitudetherevenues of the 7
; | United States have grown in a fliort period, it is
I not eafv to pronounce how far the faculty of pa>-
ing might not be (trained by any sudden consider
able augmentation, wh-refoever immediately pla
, ced 5 while the rapid progress qf the country in
population and resource seems to afford a moral
certainty, that the necessary augmentation may be
made with convenience, by fucceflive steps, with
' in a moderate term of time, and invites to ternpo-
rary and partial fufpenlions, as capable of concili
ating the reasonable accommodation of the com
munity with the vigoroua prosecution of the main
design. For these, and for other reasons which will
readily occur, the course of providing immediately
the intire lum to be redeemed, is conceived not to
be the most eligible.
A second plan, though much more efficacious
than that of annual loans, bottomed on the reve
nues now appropriated for the payment of interest
on the sums to be redeemed, does not appear to be
( fuffitiently efficacious. The fchedule'A. will lhew
th« effeCt of it to the firlt of January 1802, when
the deferred debt will become redeemable in the
proportions (tipulated. Supposing the inveltment
» of the interelt/which is each year liberated, toge
ther with thar which has been, and will be releaf
p ed by purchases, pursuant to provvfions heretofore
t made, in the purchase of 6 per cent* stock j a sum
_ of principal equal to 2,043,d011ars and 7 cents
would be lunk, and a clear annuity, equal to
' 459» 2 ' 2 dollars and 82 cents would be created, to-
wards further redemptions j but the fund then ne
ceHary for the future progrclfive redemption ol
the debt, according to the right reserved, would be
1,126,616 dollars and 44 cents, exceeding b)
, 667,403 dollars and 62 cents, the amount of the
redeeming fund.—Something more effectual than
this is certainly delirable, and appears to be prac
ticable.
1 he last of the three plans belt accords with the
molt accurate view, which the Secretary has been
able to take of the public interelt.
( - n t s application, it is ol material consequence
to endeavour to accomplish these two points h 1 It,
1 he complete discharge ot the sums annually re
deemable, within the period prefixed, and the re
imbui femeht, within the lame period, of all aux
iliary loans, which may have been made for thai
purpose. 2dly, The conltituting, by the expi
ration of that period, a clear annual fund com
; petent to the future redemption of the debt, to
the extent of the right reserved.
' The peiiod, to which it is conceived the plan
. ought to refer, is the firft uay of January, 1802 j
becatile then the firft paymen', on account of
the principal of the deferred debt, may rightfully
be made.
In conformity to these ideas, the following plan
is mull refpeCtfully fubmittedj premising, that
the sum redeemable for the firlt year of the 6 per
cent, liock, bearing a present interest, is com
-1 puted at 550,000 dollars.
Let an annual fuhd be constituted during th"
present tefiion, equal to 103,199 dollars and 6
cent§., to begin to accrue from the ift of Janua
ry 1793. et the sum of 550,000 dollars be
borrow, d upon the credit of this annuity, reim
burfeable within five years, that is, by the firft of
: J a nuary 1799. The sum borrowed to be applied,
on the lit of Januaty 1794, to the firft payment
on account of the principal of the debt.
Ihe proposed annuity will reimburse the sum
borrowed with interest, by the firft of January
1799, anc * will thenceforth, be free for any fur
ther application.
1 ne sum redeemable the second year, that is,
on the lit ot" January 1795, is computed at
583,000 dollars.
Let an annual fund be constituted, during the
second lefiion after the present, equal to 109,391
dollars and 60 cents, to begin to accrue from the
lit of January 1794. Let the sum of 583,000
dollars be borrowed upon the credit of thisan.jui- .
j ty, reimburfeabie within five years, that is, by ift
4of January 1800. The sum borrowed to be ap
plied, on the lit of January 1795, t0 second
payment on account of the principal of the debt.
I Ihe propoled annuity will reimburse the sum
j borrowed with interest, by the ift ofjanuary ISOO, 1
i and will be thenceforth fiee for any further «p- <
plication.
| The sum redeemable the third year, that is, on
j the ift of Januarv 1796, is computed at 617,980
j dollars.
I Let an annual fund be constituted, during the ]
third session, after the prelent, equal to 115*955 J
j dollars and 17 cents, to begin to accrue fr m :he j
• lit ot January 1795. Ec J he sum of 617,9.80 ]
j dollars be borrowed upon the credit of this annu- I
it>', reimburieable-within live years, that, is, by
the ift ot January ISOI. The sum boriowed to
be applied, on the ift of January 1796, to the
third payment on account of the principal of the
debt.
The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum 1
borrowed with interest, by the lit ofjanuary ISOI. C
The sum redeemable the fourth year, that is, !
on the i(t of January 1797, is computed at
dollars and 80 cents. 1
Let an annual fund be constituted during the C
fourth fefiion after the present, equal to 122,912 C
dollars and 48 cents, to to accrue from the C
ift of January 1796. Lft the sum of 655,058 C
aollars and 80 cents, be borrowed upon the ere- 1
die of this annuity, reimburfeabie within five *
;>eais, that is, by the firlt of January 1802. The *
ium borrowed, to be applied on the firft of Janu- !
ary 1797, to the fourth payment on account of 1
the principal of the debt. v
The proposed annuity win reimburse the sum
borrowed with interelt, by the ift of January iSo2. r
( The /urn redeemable the fifth year, that is, on '
the firft of January 1798, iscomputed at 694,-562 P
dollars and 33 cents. 1
Let an annual fund be constituted, during the a
fifili feliion a.'ter the present, equal to 152,74 1
dollais and J2 cents, to begin to accrue from the 0
hrlt of January i 79 7. Let the sum of 604,362 "
j pl' a ' s and 33 cents, be borrowed upon the ere
dir of this annuity, reimburfeabie within four t:
jears that is, Jby the firft of January ,802. £
he sum borrowed to be applied on the firft of Ta
nuary 1798, to th< fifth payment on account of
the principal of the debt. "
The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum gl
borrowed with interelt,by the firft ofjanuary ISO 2. h
The lum redeemable the lixth year, that is, ci
on the firft of January 1799, i 5 «<j mpu ted at
73&j0Z4 dollars and 7 ccnts.
is Let an annua! fund be constituted during the
y- ilxth felfion, after the present, equal to 197,680
r- dollars and 20 cents, to begin to accrue from i. :
3- iirft of January 1798. Let the sum of 736,024
in dollars and 7 cents, be botrowed upon the crcdic
a) of this annuity, reimburleakle witnin three year
se that is*. by the firft of January 1802. The si/mi
1- borrowed to be applied, on the firft ofjanuarv
)- J 799♦ t0 payment v n account of the
i- principal of the debt.
j- The proposed annuity will reimburse the fun.
n borrowed with interest, by the firft of Janiran
ii 1802.
I 1 he sum redeemable the seventh year, that it.
:o on the firft of January 1800, is computed a
780,185 dollars and 52 cents.
is Let an annual fund be constituted during th
:- leventh fellion after the present, equal to 272,84?
ft dollars and 38 cents, to begin ro accrue from ch
°f January 1799. Let the sum of 780,185
w dollars and 52 cents, be borrowed upon the ciedi
n of this annuity, reimbursable within two years,
e that is, by the firft of January 1802. The sum
it borrowed to be applied, on the firft of Januarx
- 1800, to the seventh payment on account of the
principal of the debt.
e The proposed aunuity will reimburse the sum
n borrowed with interest, by the firft of January
s 1802.
0 The sum redeemable the eighth year, that is,
- on the firft of January ißoi, is computed at
526.996 dollars and 65 cents.
1 , Let an annual fund be constituted, during the
e eighth fefiion after the present, qual 10423,583
y dollars ana 64 cents, to begin to accrue from the
e firft of January jßoo. Let the sum of 826,996
i dollars and 65 cents be borrowed upon the cred't
- of this annuity, reimburfeable wichin one year,
that i?, on the firft of January 1802. The sum
; borrowed to be applied, on the firft of January
1 ISOI, to the eighth payment on account of the
principal of the debt.
■ 1 propoied annuity will reimburse the sum
, borrowed with interest, on the fiift of Januarv
• 1802.
The sum redeemable the ninth year, that is,
on the firft of January 1802, is computed at
1,126,6)6 dollars and 44 cents.
Ihe then existing means for the discharge of
this lum, arising from the operation of the plan,
» will be— r
1 ft. i he amount of the annuity .constituted
1 the third year, which will have been liberated b\
reimbursement of the third loan. 2d, The ar
rears of interest not previously appropriated, and
which' are computed at 200,000 dollars.
1 here will consequently be a deficiency thi>
year of 810,661 dollars and 27 cents, which will
require to be supplied by a temporary lean, to be
reimbursed out of the surplus of the fund, which,
on the nrft .oi January 1802, will exist for fu
ture redemptions, and which surplus will be fur- i
ficient to reimburse this temporary loan in about
thirteen years and a half.
It may be proper to remark, that this deficien
cy upon one year is fuffcred to exist, to avoid an
unneceliary augmentation of revenue, material
ly beyond the sum permanently requisite. 1
inconvenience ensues, because this temporary de
ficiency is made up by the surplus of the permu >
nent fund, within the period mentioned. And 1
that fund, from the firft of January 1802, is a
dequate to all future redemptions, in the full
proportion permitted by the contrad.
The table in the schedule B, herewith submit- j
ted, will/hew in one view tke principles and o
peration of this plan- ' t
The schedule C will exhibit the means ofcon
ftituting the several annuities proposed to be ef- 1
tabliflied. From it, will be leen, that Hie propo- 1
led annuities are to be composed, partly of taxes t
to be luccelfively laid, at the refpe&ive periods c
of creating them, partly of the fui plus-dividend v
to be expected on the ftocJc belonging to the go- I
vernment, in {he bank of the United States, be-
vond the interest to be paid on account of it, c
and partly of the funds heretofore pledged for the c
payment of interest, which will have been libera- :
ted so much of the debt, as will have been
cxtingui/hed. . ? t e
1 iie refpe&ive amounts of the taxes to be se
verally laid, will be
in the firft year 43> ! 99 dollars and 6 cents. S
In tne fccond year 109,391 dollars and 60 cents. 1
In the third year 115,955 dollars and 17 cents, c
in fourth year 102,9J2 dollars and 48 cents,
in the fifth year 102,743 dollars and 12 cents. ~
In the lixth year 107,680 dollars and 20 cents. |>
In the seventh year 109,649 dollars and 32 cents, b
Making together 691,530 dollars and 95 cents, n
The sum, which will have been redeemed frier u
tothe firft dayof January, 1802, will be 5,4.43.607
dollars and 37 cents. The sum redeemable on
the firft of January 1802, will be, 1,126, 616dd0- e
lars and 44 cents 3 and the fund, which will cl
thencefoith exist for the purpose of future re- n
demption (as is particularly /hewn by the fche- b
dule D) will be 1,210, 744 dollars and 34 cents, ' c
exceeding the sum ftriftly necefl'ary by 84,127 c
dollars and 90 cents ; a fund, which including *
the interest from year to year liberated, will, as J
already intimated, be completely adequate to the a
final r«demption of the whole amount of the fix
per cent, stock (as well the deferred as that bear ''
»"g a -present interest) according to the right, tf
which has been reserved for that purpose. c!
In the mean time, a further impreflion will be lr
made upon the debt by the investment of tne re
hdueof the funds, heretofore eltablifhed, in the pl
purchase of it; and it is hoped, that the reftora
tion of peace with the Indians will enable the '(
application of the Airbus of the existing revenues, 1!
together with the proceeds of the ceded lands in Jc
our Western the fame object. Tfcefe,
whenever they can be brought into atfion, will P ;
be important aids, materially accelerating the ul- ot
timate redemption of the intire debt—The em 111
ployment of these resources, when it can be done, c<
by encreafing the interest fund,will proportionabh
leflen the necefiity of using tne refouice of taxa
tion for creating the proposed annuities ) if the
government/hall jifdge it advifeable to avail it
felf of the substitute, which may accrue from that T
circumstance.
Having now given a general view of the plan,
which has appeared upon the whole the xcoft oH- at
he gible, it Is nccaffary Jn the next place to present
80 to the consideration of the House the re qui lite
funds for commencing the execution of it. These
24 willembracea provision for the fir.l annuity on
ly } that alone requiring by the plan immediate
provision. With regard to a provision for the fub
m lequent annuities, which is proposed to be fuc
ry /eliive, the Secretary will content birafelf with
he his general observation, that he discerns no in
rinfic difficulty in making provi/ion for them, as
m fail as ihall be neceli'ary, with due convenience to
ry the people, and confidently with the idea of ab
staining from taxing lands and buildings (with
s, the ilockand implements of farms) reserving them
a as a resource for those great emergencies, which
ali for a full exertion of the contributive facul
v ties 0/ a country.
(.? The following means for conflicting the firft
1 annuity, are refpectfully submitted, viz.
• 5 Annual fuiplus of the dividend on the (lock of
1 government in the bank of the United States, be
s, ond theintereft to be paid outuf thefaid dividend,
ti cili mated at 60,000 dollars.
\ Tax on horfes,»kept or used for the purpose of
it riding, or of drawing any coach,chariot, phaeton,
chaise, chair, folkey or other carriage for con
n veyance of perjons j excepting and exempting
y .'ll horles, whicii are usually and chiefly employed
for.the purposes of hulbandry, or in drawing wag
, gons, wains, drays, carts or other carriages, for the
r traofportation of produce, goods, merchandize and
commodities, or in carrying burthens in the courfc
e of the trade or occupation of the otifons to whom
3 1 hey refpedtively belong, and the horses of persons
e in the military lervice of the United Stares, viz.
6 For every horse, not above excepted and ex
r empted, at the rate of one dollar per annum—
, where only one is used or kept by the fame per
, I on, with an addition of fifty cents per annum per
v horse, where more than one and not morethan two
e horles are kept or used by the fame pcrfon—with
an addition of one dollar per annum per horse,
-1 where more than .wo, and not more than four are
kept or used by the fame person, and with an ad
dition of one dollar and a half dollar per horse, per
, annum, where more than four are kept or used by
t the lame prrfun : Provided that this addition ihall
not be made in refpedfc to horles usually employed
f in public stages for the conveyance of paiTVngers.
, i his piogreflive intreafe of rates on the nigher
numbers has reference to the prelumption ofgreat
-1 er wealth, which arises from the pofTeffion of such
higher numbers.
1 lie product of this tax wil /probably be about
equal to the residue of the proposed annuit.,which
1 1 43> , 99 dollars and 6 cents. How near the ti uth
< (his estimate may prove, experiment alone can,in
I lo untried a cafe, decide.—-An aid to this fund
may be derived from the surplus divictend on the
, bank Hock, for the half year ending the last of
December next, which it is presumed will be not
le/s than 20,000 dollars. Should a deficiency ap
pear upon triaj, it can be supplied by a future pro
vision.
Proper regulations for the collection of this tax
will, it is believed, oe foun not difficult, if the
tax itfelf ihall be deemed eligible, its fimpliciry
nas been a ffonfiderable recommendation of it.—•
as it is, it is not likely to fall on any but
Ibch who can afford to pay it. The exemption
from the tax, in regard lo horses which are ap
propriated to the purposes of bufbandry, or of any
or occupation, of to the transportation of
comrnodkies, seems obviate all reasonable ob
jection.
If h wever, there should appear to the legisla
ture, reasons for preferring a tax on carriages for
plealure, which, it may be observed, will operate
on nearly the fame description of person?, the sum
iequired may, it is believed, be produced from the
fallowing arrangement of rates, viz. Upon every
coach, the annual sum of four dollars.—Upon e- >
very chariot, the annual sum of three dollars—
Upon every other carriage for the conveyance of
perJor.Xy having four wheels, the annual sum of two
dollars j—and upon every chair, fulkey or other
carriage for the conveyance of persons, having less
than four wheels, the annual sum of one'dollar.
The collection of this tax will be as Ample and
easy, and perhaps more certain, than that which
• ias been primarily submitted.
With regard to the second objedl referred to the
Secretary, amely, the plan of a provision for the
reimbursement of the loan made of tiie bank of
the United States, pursuant to the Xlth fe&ion
>f the a«st by which it is incorporated j—the fol
owing is refpedlfully submitted, (to wit,) That
oowe be given by law to borrow the sum due, to
be applied to that reimbursement j ana that so
much of the dividend on tht flock of the govern
ment in the bank as may be necefl'ary, be appro
riatedfor paying the interest of the sum to ba
borrowed.
From this operation, it is obvious, that a saving
;o the government will result, equal to the differ
ence between the interest which will be payable on
the new loan, and that whicb is pay able on the sum
now dile to the bank. If the pjopoled loan can
oe effcdled, at the rate of those lalt made in Hol
land, the nett saving to the government may be
computed at the annual sum of 35,000 dollars ;
which saving, whatever it may be, is contemplated
as part of the means for constituting the proposed
annuities.
The benefit of this arrangement will be accele
rated, if provision be *lhade for the application of
the proceeds of any loans, heretofore obtained, to
the pajment fuggeited cn the condition of re-plac
'ng the lums which may be so applied out of the
roceeds of the loan of Joans, which ihall be rrtade
pursuant to the power above proposed to be given.
It will also conduce to the general end in view,
• f the iegillature ihall think proper to authorise
he investment of the sands, deftioed for purcha
ses of the debt, in purchases of 6 per cent, (lock at
'be market pi ice, though above par. The tom-
I parative prices of the several kinds of ilock have
oeen, and frequently may be, such as to render ic
more profitable to make investments in the 6 per
cents, than in any other fpeties of stock.
All which is humbly /submitted.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Treasury«
Treasury Department, Nov, 30th, 1792.
*#* The tables referred to in ihe above, will
appear in our next,FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
LONDON, September 28.
It is impoflible to form an adequate idea
of the cruelties the clergy every where ex
perience in France that refufe to take the
national oath. A few days lince arrived at
Oftend a small open boat, with upwards of
fifty French prieits 0:1 board, who made
their escape in the disguise of sailors and
domestics. If the combined armies do not
restore the monarchy in France, it is fear
ed the old clergy will become perpetual
wandereis in foreign lands, as the very
name of priest (in conformity with their
new fangled politics) is become odious to
the nation.
We now fee, in Paris, the late duke of
Orleans metamorphosed into Monsieur
Philip Joseph Equality ! That wretched
man who has proved a traitor to his fami
ly, is now one of tile members of the Na
tional Convention, but watched with an
eye of the ttrictett scrutiny by che jealous
French republicanifts. Let which fide
that will, prevail, it does not appear that
this apoitate from royalty can long sur
vive. If the Duke of Brunfwick becomes
matter of Paris, Mr. Equality will be
made a severe example of—if the French
gain their point, their suspicions will soon
put an end to his exiltence.
The Ruffians and Spaniards are both
engaged in equipping fleets, which un
doubtedly have, France for their" object,
the ensuing spring.
Great Britain declines intermeddling in
any degree, in the affairs of France, but
the king, as eleAor of Hanover, is obliged
to furniih his quota of troops to the Impe
rial army.
A great number of the heaviett pieces of
artillery, great guns and mortars, have
lately been sent from Luxembourg to for
ward the iiege of Thionville. Should the
beiieged continue refractory, red-hot balls
are to be employed against them.
M. de Calonue, the great friend and
counsellor of the emigrant princes, has took
his departure for Italy.
The following are the sentiments of M.
Condorcet, Vice-Prelident of the French
National Convention, refpe&ing a naval
armament. "It isfaicl that the Porte has
refufed to receive M. Semonville in the
character of the constitutional ambaflador ,
of France, and infills that M. de Choifeuil 1
lhall retain that fkuation. It is clear then 1
that the Porte is deceived ; and this is an 1
etfeft of the intrigue set on foot to deprive I
us of that ally. Let us then recal both M. |
Semonville and M. de Choifeuil; and tit 1
out tea more Chips to cruise in the Medi- 1
terranean. ,
If the Grand Seignor is so attached ;
to VI. Choifeuil, why in God's name let ■
hi n ;ceep him, and welcome. If Choifeuil t
dil'obeys a letter of recal, and prefers Con- t
ftantinople to Paris, let him (lay there; t
but let him not expect to receive any lata- (
ry from us. It he had rather intrigue 1
for Calonne and Pitt, than live in his own
country, we cannot hinder him from r
playing the fool, and being the dupe of t
his folly. But the dignity of the French <.
Nation will not futfer any Court to dictate r
to it the choice of its Miiiitefs, or refufe (
to receive them. v
" England, no doubt, has an interest f
in depriving us of the friendihip of the ;
Turks, that ilie may be thereby enabled t
to exclude us from the Levant trade which I ■;
we at present carry on. But let her spin ! t
out her intrigue, the moment of our pow- j (
er is approaching; and then the Mi lifter ; 1
who now hates a.id affects to despise us, I t
vvili court our alliance ; and the {late I c
which employs Macluavelian policy to en- t
rich itfelf, may be caughtin itsowufnares. i
A nation that forces its means is nearer its c
fall than it may iijiagine. f
'■ Tile neceility of our having a fleet 111 t
the Mediterranean—is founded 0:1 this c
principle, that we ought once for alt 1,
break the league of the petty Princes of i
the South and convince them of this plain li
and (imple truth, " that we fear them i;
not." We will afterwards think of the 11
means of getting rid of the power of the t
King of Sardinia, and favouring the dif- t
meniberment of the island from v.;hich he h
derives his Royal Title ; that expedition n
may be intruded to Paoli, with three 1
frigates and 3000 Corficans. The Sardi- t
nians are islanders, and consequently form- p
ed for liberty ; for in all times palt thnfe 1
inhabiting itlands and mountains havede- y
teited the yoke of despotism. The con- i
quest of Sardinia will bean additional ttep t
towards universal republicanifirl. Then 1
we may think of our Levant trade, so e
ufeful to our Southern Departments, (
Commerce is the offspring ofinduflry, as {
induttry is of liberty. Let us but be free, 1
and tlrength, wealth, and every other 1
good will neceflarily follow. The Turks 1
will stand in need of 11s ; they will give t
us whatever we all: ; and we (hail find in 1
the Levant trade ample compensation fbr ;
our loiTes in America. ;
" But to effect all this we mutt rule the i
Mediterranean ; it is our sea. We mull g
be superior there to the Ruffian fleet, and j
wake the Empress from the dream in ;
which (he fondly thinks the can becc-me <
mittrefs of Coriica, and pour her Ruffians 1
into Provence.
• u e mutt awe the confederated Bour
bons of the south, and be before hand
with their intended armaments for next
spring.
" We mufl make Spain trembie; let 10
a trench thips of w, r be sent to carry the
- three coloured cockade, and the declara
e tion of Rights of Man, into Catalonia;
t '• We mutt let the Bourbon of Spain
1 know, that if he ventures to take in
- dudgeon what we have done, we will re
-1 cover from him Navarre, which of sight
t belongs to us, and then declare it free.
" We mutt be beforehand with the
I other crowned Bourbon, the King of the
t two Sicilies, and also the Great Matter of
r Malta, who are confederating against us.
> " What is wanting to accomplish all
this ? —ten (hips of the line and some bat
s tallions of our great National Army.
• We have all Europe against us ! Then
1 be it sb 1 It is a glorious light aild equally
• worthy of us who bear a part in it; of
• hittorv, that will record it ; and of pof
-1 terity that will read of it.;
; One of the Se£tions of Paris has refufed
; its aflent to late Duke of Orleans being a
: member of the-National Convention ; and
• (till less that he (hall afiiima the name of
■ Monsieur Equality, which, -they fay, is
■ National property, and cannot be arro
i gated by any individual whatever.
i On Monday the 13thof Augntt, Acre
mains of that distinguished perfoii, general
Burgoyne, were brought from his bonfein
liereford-ftreet, and interred in the cloy
(ters of Wettminfter Abbey, in a very pri
vate manner. He was followed to his grave
by one coach, in Which'were four gentle
men, one of them a military chara&er.
One lady forced hcrlelf to be present, and
obviously agitated, was led away, support
ed, from a scene that touched her nearly.
October 4.
Sir John Slibre, Bart, was introduced
by Mr. Duudas, and kitfed the king's
hand on being created a Baronet, and 011
his being nominated Governor-General of
Bengal, in the room of Marquis Cornwal
-1 is.
For the National Gazette.
I HAVE observed with pain and anxie
ty, almost ever tince peace has been fairly
eitablithed in our country, that a Certain
set ot high flying politicians, have with the
utmost assiduity been endeavoring to de
flroy the confidence of the people, in their
belt, their firmett friends ; the only art
by which the people, in a free elective go
vernment can be enilaved. To this end
the friends to the equal and common rights
of man, have been (tigmatized in almoit
.every newspaper, as antifederals, dema
gogues, democrats. mobocpafj, non-cou
tents, dif-couteuts, mal-contents, enemies
to the government, hottile to the conttku
tion, friends to anarchy, haters of good
order, promoters of confufion, exciters of
mobs, sowers of sedition, &c. &c.
The tact is obvious to every one, who
reads our daily publications ; but to fee
through the deagti of these politicians, re
quires some reflection ; it is to this I would
no.v call the public attention. The piece
tigned Otfego in Mr. Bache's General Ad
vertiser, of the 4th inflant affords us as
flrlkiag a proof of the fact, and perhaps
as good a clue to the deiigns of these pre
tended friends to peace, good order and
good government, as any fiilgle production,
that has lately appeared. In this piece
Governor Clinton, a man, who is not mere
ly a protefied republican but,a true and a
tried one : one, that has proved his prin
ciples by his invariable pra&ice, for thir
ty years lalt past, spent in public life, dur
ing the whole of which time, he ha-; evin- -
ced himfelf to be as unalterable and uni- 1
torm a friend to the rights and liberties of :
the people, as this, 01- perhaps any other
country ever produced, is loaded with the
mod unmeritedabUJeand calumny.. That 1
it is unmerited, I fliall endeavor to (hew
hereafter ; but shall confinenlyfelf at pre
sent to the enquiry, why this character is so
much abuled by this and Other writers at ;
the present time? Can it be out of aft'ec- ;
tion tor the interests of the people, and an
honest zeal for their liberties and happi
nels ?—No. The universally acknow- ;
ledged chara£ter of the man, would give i
the lie to such a pretence. Is it owing to 1
personal enmity to the man ?—No, my fel
low citizens, it is owing to an enmity to :
your liberties. They hate not the man ;
it is his political charuiter is the object of 1
their aversion : they hate his patriotism,
hisfepublicanifm, his known and unfliaken
attachment to freedom. Is not every per
son, who writes or (peaks againlt kingly
salaries, irrepealable tax-laws, irredeema
ble debts, (landing armies, and those ini
menfely monied arittocracies called corpo
rations, which are multiplying in our coun
try, pointed out as a democrat, and an ene
my to the government ? Tliefe are fa£ts,
and facts from which you ought to reason:
and faits by which if you reason properly
from them, you will be enabled to diftin
guitli with precision, your real from your
pretended friends ; or, in other words, the
true republicans, from the ma(l-:ed aritto-.
crats, v. ho endeavor to conceal themselves
under the name of Federalists.
[To be continued.]
CONGRESS
> HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Tuesday, December 4.
Read a second time, the bill for fettling
the northern boundary of the territory ce
ded to the Unit.ed States by the state of
North-Carolina—and made the order of
the day for next Thursday.
After reading and referring t\Vo peti
tions, the house, according to the order of
the day, went into committee of the whole
on the Estimate <>f appropriations for the
support of government during the year
1793 —The Speaker laid before the house
a letter from the Secretary of the Trea
sury, incloiing the accounts of the loan
office commiflioners of the United States,
whereon the estimate of the expence of
the loan-olfices was founded— these ac
counts were read, and mt>re particularly
those iof Mafl'achufetts, New-York, Penn
sylvania, Maryland, and Virginia. The
amountof the expetice generally com
plained of, and several alterations were
proposed.
Mr. Steele renewed his motion for lin
king out thiifum of fifty thousand dollars
for contingencies and inciifentaFexpences
of the war department, and that five thou
sand dollars be inserted instead thereof—
which was superseded by a motion of Mr.
Fitziimons, "that the President of the U
nited States be requested to cause infor
mation to be given to the house re peeling
an estimate of the expences of the war de
partment for the year 1793, and that a
statement of the particulars be included."
After some debate, and an amendment
proposed, theqiieftion on Mr. Fitzfimons's
motion was put and carried—The com
mittee then role, and reported progrels, to
fit again to-morrow.
A report was read, from the committee
to whom was Referred the letter from the
Secretary of State respecting the applica
tion of the fund appropriated for the sup
port of the intercourfeofths United States
with foreign nations—laid on the table.
The bill for re-imburling certain extra
ordinary expences of the commissioners to
the Creek Indians in 1787, was read a
third time. The committee of reference
had agreed to fill up the blank with iaco
dollars; which W3s disagreed to ; a mo
tion to fill up the blank with moo dollars
was also loft—a motion for 900 was agreed
to—Ayes 26-—Noes 20.
Wednesday, December 5.
The bill for re-imburfing certain extra
1 expences of the commissioners to the Che-,
rokee Indians, in 1787, was read .1 third
time ; and 011 the question being put, whe
ther the bill Ihonld pass ? it palled in the
negative—Ayes 20 —Noes 21.
The report of the committee in favour
of the petition cf William Dunbar, in be
half of tile heirs of eorge Galphin, late
Indian fuperintendant, allowing a cum
penfation of joo dollars for services ren- ,
dered—on the question for agreeing to it,,
it was negatived, 24 against 21. ,
Several petitions and memorials were
read, one of which was referred ; and the .
motions for referring the others, llegati- |
ved. ,
The house took into confideratiou the ]
report of the committee 011 the petition of ,
Moses Young, secretary to Mr. Laurens .
on his einbaify to Holland, but taken on
the palfage, and afterwards confined in ,
England. The memorialist's claim on the 1
United States was forfalary, at the rate of ,
5001. sterling per annum, from the 18th of .
October 1779, to the 36th of August 1782. j
After considerable length of de bate, the ,
question on agreeing to the report of the j
committee (which Was in favor of the pe- (
titioner) being put, was negatived, 27 to t
25 —Mr. Smith (S. C.) moved that the f
whole fubjeft Ihould be'recommitted, but (
this motion was loit, ayes 19, noes 25.
Thursday, December
A bill authorising the settlement of the :
account:; of Lewis Garanger, was read c
twice, and made the order of the day for '
Tuesday next.
A mefiage was communicated from the
President of the United States, with inclo- (
fares relative to the war w'ith the Indian (
tribes in the territory N. W. of the Ohio ; 1
which being confidential, the doors were (
(hut till they were read. i
A report was read from the commillion- i
ers for fettling the accounts of the indivi- i
dual fty.es with the United.States ; infor- I
mingthat they will be able to effect a final ;
settlement by the rftofjuly, 1793- !
The Ifoufe then went into committee, ■
on the ooafting bill. The several sections i
of the bill were debated by paiagraphs ; <
several amendments were adopted, which 1
were reported, and laid on the table. 1
A report was brought in from the com- ;
mittee on the petition of W. and J. Simrns,
for remission of duties on a cargo loft in
coming round from New-York to Phila
delphia—'After Tome debate, the petition
and report/were referred to a committee
of the wholt-on next Monday.
A letter was read from Mr. Seney,notifying
his resignation of his feat in the House of
Representatives, in coni-queuee of an ap
pointment in the judiciary of the state of
5 Maryland, incompatible with his retaining
a feat in the national legillature.
FriDAV, December /.
The memorial of Timothy De Monbrun,'
of Canada, an Indian agent for the United
r State?, was read, praying compensation for
' services rendered, &c. referred to the Se j
c cretary of the Treasury,
I Mr. Key called up the letter from JT
Seney, Esq. and moved that it might b£
. referred to a select committee : this cauf
p ed some debate," when the question was
, put for commitment; 18 rose in favourof
, it, and 2 j against it. It was then moved
. that " (he Speaker notify the executive
Maryland that the feat of Mr. Seney is
vacant by his resignation." This motion
on was negatived, and the letter laid oil
the table.
A message was received by Mr. Secreta
ry Lear, with copies of communications
lately received by the President of the li
nked States from the Governor of tha
South Western Territory. The galleriei
were then ftiut.
PHILADELPHIA,
December 8,
We learn that the measures taken by th<j
supreme executive o the United States to
bring the hoflile Indian to a conferehca
in >vhjch all fubfiitnig differences fkould be
adj lifted, have issued in a propofai of tha
said Indians tn meet commissioners of the
United States at An Glaize on the Mi mi
river which runs into Lake Erie, the next,
spring, at the time the leaves lhall be full/
out; and that in the mean time they vs ili lay
alide-the bioedy torn, hawk The Six Na
tions have invited governor Jimcoe to ba
prelent at the proposed conference.
Thearmy lately lyirlg at Pittfhurgh hav£
all marched for winter quarters, except a
few left at that garrifom Some Indians
had previoufiy been discovered at the placg
i tended for encampment, one of which
had been fired at and wounded.
On the 2 3d of November a severe
from the north-eafl did con' d< fable daring*
on the sea coast of Maflachufetts ; fever It
velfels were loft and damaged. '
Drawn by accident (fays a citizen ofth*
United States) to this great capital, and
having had an opportunity to hear the len
timents of foine re(pe&abfe t characters, I
was extremely surprised to find that there
could be a diversity of opinio:; as to the
iiriiation of the citizens of France. A
coidnefs of ientiment ifi'utd from the lips
of some, chilling to every idea, that conn*
tenanced that resistance which grew out of"
the calamities we experienced during the
late war. Can any of our leading charac
ters renounce those feeling that prefect
us forward to struggle againll and finally
overcome the opprefiion ot Great-Britain '
Have they no rccolle-ftion of our past re
demption ? Is that good \yilt tbv ards thfc
cause of liberty which they so patriotically
embraced and so bravely defended, fwul
lowed up their apparent national quiet
and prosperity? Wealth and conl'equencc-j
suddenly acquired, may bring on this dis
position. But I trust, my countrj'men at
large have that honeit h;t ii ot charac
ter which detells ingratitude, and spurns
at opinions unfriendly to the Fi > na
tion. The standard of a monarch ought
never to have a recruit in this country?—-
"We, the people," (houid be written over
j the doors of tire Senate and House of Re
presentatives. Congress Ihould comfort
the inhabitants of France with an addreis
replete with good willies. National coy
ness should be laid aside, and the rr,i
of this government be dire£Ved to alii ra
the citizens of that country, how v arnily
those 61' this, in their hearts, support their
can ft;.
On Wednesday Jaft the Hoff. JOHlsf
ADAMS, Vice-President of the United
States, arrived in this city, and on Thurs
day took his feat as President of the Sen-/
ate
i-
The malk is at lafttornfromtne mottar?
chical party who have, with but too much
success, imposed themselves on the public
for the ftneere friends of our republican
constitution. Whatever may be the event
of the competition for the vice-presidency,
it has been the happy occaiion of afcei tain
inrr the two following important truths r
firft, that the name of Fedefaliit has beeft
aflhmed by men who approve the consti
tution, merely as " a promising effby to
wards a well-ordered government" ; that
is to lay, as a step towards a government
of king, lord* and commons.
that the spirit of the people continues
firmly republican, and if the monarchical
features of the party had been foorer held
up to public view, would have nniver--
felly marked the det'jlion between two
candidates (equally unaffailed in their pri
vate characters) one of whom is as much
attached to the equal principles of liberty
entertained by the great mass of his fellow
citizens, as the other is devoted to the here
ditary titles, orders, and balances, -which
they abhor as arf iafult to the .rights and
dignity of man,[The following Stanzas ire addrefl'ed to
the American 0 or the United States, by
the French patriotic society oi Charlel
ton, S. C.]
dux /mericoins.
DES Jacobins, la naiflance
Eft moins nouveile qu'on croit:
Ce'ft d'ici que dans la I ranee
Nous apprimes notre droit.
Eh ! quand pour votre detfenfe
Vous niarchiez, Americains,
M'etiez vous pas Jacobins ?
Pour jamais perdons i'ufage
Des mots de prince, de roi ;
N'adoptons dans !e language,
Que la nation, la loi ;
Qui dit roi, dit efclavage •,
Mais qui dit un Jacobin,
Dit un vrai republicain.
Amis de la republique.
En France vous ailez voir
Tout le parti nionarch'.qiie
Extermine fans eipoir;
Par leur foin pati iotique,
Nos immortels Jacobins _
Vont chafler tousles tarquins.
November 12, 179-2-
[Some of the ideas in the foregoing are
transfufed into the fubfeqiient lines-]
THF.SK Jacobins, thatfomefo much de
spise
Did not, like muthrooms, spring up 111 f
night :
By them inftrufted. France again mall rife.
And every Frenchman learn his native
right.
American ! when in your country's ca-ufe
You march'd, and dar'd the EOglifh lion':
jaws, .
Crulh'd Heflian slaves, and made the:;
hosts retreat.
Say, were you not a Jacobin —complete.
Forever banifh'd,now, be prince and king,
To Nations and to Laws our reverence
due :
And let not language to ray memory bring.
A word that might recall the infernal
crew.
Monarch !—henceforth I blot it from m>
page,
Monarchs and (laves too long difgracethu
But Jacobin I—the race that some disclaim.
Shall save a world, and damn a tyrant's
fame.
Friends to republics, cross the Atlantic
brine,
Low in the dust fee regal fplendorlaid :
Hopeless forever, deeps the Bourbon line
Long pra6tis'd adepts in the murdering
trade !
* With patriot care the nation's will ex
prefling
These Jacobins shall prove all Europe ;
bieiling,
Pull from his height each blultering noble
dawn
And chace all modern Tarquins from
the throne.
[Continue#from the Jirft page.]
lightnings and tremendous thunders ol
tempestuous times : it would t'ieref >re be
irrational to infer a willing invitation ol
elements, equally unpropitious to then
native constitutions, and maturer growth
Tlicfe tempoiifing, pitiful attempts ma
nifeft the distress under which their au
thors 'nbouv, for expedients in a wicket:
and expiring cauf *, and will 1 i" doubt re
coil upon them with accumulated force
For the great bulk of people, who alwayi
intend well and generally conclude right
ly, when pofiefled of a plain, unfophiilica
ted Hate of fa&s, which time rarely fails
to furnifh, will probably reason in thii
manner
Characters which have been fcrutinizec
by induflrious malice and ingenious calum
ny, unrestrained by any one confideratior
of decency 01 delicacy, must be admitted
to hi'e been severely tested ; and when
the imputed crimes of a whole life time
become llripped of misrepresentation and
fophillry, and examined with an impartial
view to the discovery of truth, and have
turned out to be, fomc of them, emanati
ons of wisdom and virtue, and others to
have dwindled into mere a£ts of indiffer
ence it will be concluded that such cha
rafters are almofl exempt from the marks
of the common fallibility of man; and A
merica ill probably teitify her approbati
on and joy in the pofieffion of them, by
continuing to place them in the mod ex
alted and conspicuous offices of the govern
ment ; wh lft their calumniators will be
permitted to dwindle into themfelve# with
leisure to enjoy the sweet contemplation
of the means of their own disgrace.
It li s been th- obje£t of this paper to
present to the publican impartial and na
ked view of some of the measures of go
vernment,together with the motives which
probably gave rife to them, as well as the
motives of opposition to them j and it
condu&s us to these palpable and irreulia
ble truths, that there exilts a radicaldiffer
cnce of interest between the debtor and
creditor part of the community ; that the
debtors are many ; that the creditors are
few ; that the few have been the favour
ites of the government, and wilh a conti
nuance of governmental measures > that
they have attempted, under the impulse of
on immediate intereft,to prevent the due
exertion of the public will , and that the
means used to effect this object hate been at
leafl UM ale and i.'cccptivs ; perhaps truth
would infill, that lorn: of them iiave been
injudicious and malevolent.
No impulse of interest or ambition ap
nea's to have influenced the conduct oi
those who have cfpoufed the cause of the
many, except that diffufive interest which
every individual poffefTes as a member ol
the community, and which is too remote
to furnifh an independent motive of a&ion.
Whatever opinion therefore may be enter
tained, refpe&ing the policy or wisdom ol
their measures, their motives at lealt fhoulJ
3e deemed corredl.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
November i 792•9 2 •
£>. U Bar. Tber. IV.nl. Ji'eatb.
Tue/daf, *7. 1 30. 2 6 W. 1 Fair.
! jc. j; 56 1 do.
Wedtiejtlay, IS. 7 29. 95 42 tai'll Fa s gy.
2 20. c 60 S. E. Cloudy.
Tuu'Jday, 29. 7 29. 82 39 S.W. j Fair.
tnuuy, 30. 7 2 9- 33 "•
229 87 4c do. i do.
Saturday, 1. 7 *9* c • W.Cloudy.
2 2c, B'j 14 do, [ do.
Sunday, 2. 7 29. 87 29 J Fair.
220 • 9 3" dn. _£L- _
~ 7 \ 30 25 25
2' 30. a 40 Fair.
Piica Current at Philadelphia.
[Dollars equal to 100 cents.]
ASHES I'ot per ton 90 Dols. to 100 d.
AHies Pearl 137 — — 14°*
Bacon flitches per lb. "6 cents.
[Jacon (houidei i — 7 do.
Bees wax, per lb. 27 cents to 30.
3randy, Coniac, pergl. 1 doi. 11 c
Brandy, common, So to cOc.
3uttcr, in kegs, per lb. 11 c. to 12«
Dees, Boston, per barrel ji to Bd.
Country ditto 6d to 7d#
per bufbel, 20 c. to 22
Coffee, per lb. 17 to 18 c.
-otton, per lb. 27 c. to 37
2heefe, country, per lb. 8c to ioc.
Etiglifli 19c.
Chocolate, per lb* 18c to 20c.
oodfifh, per cwt. 3d. 50c.
American, per cwt. 7d 67c. to Bd.
Duck, Englifti No. I. per yd. 28c.
1 cent less for every number
Rul^i», per bolt lid. 33c.
Dutch fail duck, lod. to 20d.
Sailcloth, Boston No. 1. per yd. 30c,
Piaxfeed, per bulh. 90c* to idol. ioc.
Flax, per ib. 11 to 12 c.
i-'iour, lupcrfine, per barrel, sd. 88c.
Common, ———— ijdols. 7c.
Burr middlings, best, pirbrl. 4 d. 46c:
Meal Indian 3 dols.
Rye 3 dols.
Ship fluff, per cwt, 80 c. to 1 dot.
CJin, Holland, per cafc, 4 dols. 33 c.
Oinfeng per Ib. 20 c. to 24
3 rain, barley, per bu(hel, ids to id. 3c.
best (helled, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per bushel, 40 c.
Indian corn, 67 c Oats is 4. pr. bufln
Rye 44c, Wheat ldol t 13c.
Flerrim>s ner barrel 3d.
Hoops, h< glhead, per M. 15^.
Banel, 7d toßd.
Hams, per ib. ioc. te 1 I
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dels, to 146 67 c.
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9c. to II
indigo, Carolina, per lb. 1 dol« to 1 do!2OC.
Iron, bar, per ton, 91 dois.
Castings, per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c
Nail-reds per ton 110 dols. to tli.
Pig, per ton, 24 dols. to 26 doU. 67. C*
Sheet, per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
Leather, foal, per Ib. 14c. to 17c. 20c;
Logwood per ton 3od.
Lord, hogs, per lb. 30c. to 11
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
In pigs, 5 dols. 33 c. to <J dols. 67 c.
Red, —— 6 dols. 40 c. to 6 dols. 67 c,
White, —— 10 dols. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Mackerel, best, per bbl. Bd.
Madder, best, per lb. 16c. to 20c.
M vrtle wax per lb. 16 c.
Molalles, per gal. 49 c. to 53
Nails, Bd. iod. I2d and 20d. per lb. ioc.
Nutmegs, per Ib. - 7 to Bd.
L)il, Li I.feed, per gallon, 65 to 67 c.
— Olive, 87c.
percale 2d. 50c.
Sweet best in baskets, 12 bot.
■ ■■ 30 flafks, in boxes iod 50c.
Spermaccti, per gal. 48c.
Train 24c. to 27c.
Whale, 22c. to 24c*
Pepper, perlb. 38c.
Pimento, ■ jgc.
Porter per c.if.'c, sii. 336.
Porter, London, per dozen, 1 do!. 60 c«
American, do. 1 c. to 1 d. 60 c»
Pitch, per barrel, 1 dol. 73 c. to z dols.
Porlf, Burlington, per barrel, iQJojs 33c
Lower County, do. 10 dols.
Carolina, do. 9 flols.
Raififts, Mufcatella, per box 2d s 63c;
~ jar do. per jar ?A. 50c,
. Sun do. per keg B<J.
Rice, per 112 lb. 3 dols.
Rosin, per barrel, 2 dolls. 78 C.
Rum, Antigua, per gallon, 1 dol.
Barbadoes, do. do* 80 c.
New-England, &c. 65 to 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. 7c.
Windward Iftand, 86c
Salmon, per bb'. 6d. 50c. to7>l.
Scantling, heart, per M. 23d. 33c.
Sap, Bd. to 8d 67c.
shingles, 18 inch, per M. 3d. 33c. to 3d 67c*
2 feet, $d 33c. to 6
3 feet, drefled, 13d.r0
Salt, (Allum) per bushel, SC:.
Cadiz, • ' 47 c.
Lisbon, ■ 47 c.
Liverpool 47 c.
>kins, Deer, in hair, per !b. 20 to 30 c.
Red, ditto, ■ 26 to 33 c«
inake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
Havanna, white, per lb. 17 to 18 C«
Brown, per lb. 11 to izc.
MuTcovaJo, per cwt. 13 d. to 1 5
Lump, per lb. 24 c.
Loaf, single refined, 25 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 c.
Tallow, refined, ner lb. 9 c.
Tin, per box 13d. 33c. to 67c.
Sflr, New-Jeriey, 24 gal. to the brl. id.
Carolina, 32 gal. 1 dol. 33 c. to 1 dol. 6 7
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. bj c. to 2 dols.
Tea, Hyson, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
Hyson /kin, 53 c. to £0
Sou/hong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 33 c. to 36
Tobacco, Jatnlfs Xiver, best. per cwt* 3 dols. 60
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 3 dols. 33c.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
R.appahannock, 3 dols. 33 c.
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl. 33 c. to 8 J
Daik, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, 2 dols- 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to z dols. 23 c.
Carolina, old, 3 dols. 33 c
Carolina, new, 2 ools. 7 c. to 3 ddls.
Wine, M adeira, per pipe, 176 dl. to 226 dl. 67c
Li(bon, 120 to izfjd.
TenerifFe, pe> gal, 63c.
Fayal, ■ 52c
Fort, per pipe, 1 j3dol. 33 c.
Sherry, per ga!. 90 c. to 1 1. 20c.
a
For ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
WILL BE SOLD,
A Private LIBRAR
Of two hundred and twenty-jeven volumes :
(Chiefly Greek and Latin ;)
Among which are, several fcarc- and valu
able editions of the Classics.
Further particulars may be learned, or
berfonal applications! No. 26, Pear-'lrect
CHARLES BITTERS,
No. 120, South Market, near Fourth -Jlreet,
Has received from New-York, and ma
nufachired by Lot Merkel,
A large and general afl'ortment of
Muffs and Tippets, Trimming;
and Edgings,
Great Coats, Caps. Mitts and Gloves line
with Fur, which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lo weft prices .
Nov. 24. aawtf
Terres a Vendre
Duns un pats lien peujji/,-—
S AVOIR, foixante cinq mille, trols cens, foix
ante et quatorze Aires, eriu/ie leale pitct
dans le canton le mieux people de la Carol ne Mr
ridionale, leDiftiiii de Ninety-Six. Ces t-rre
font lituees dans une contrce agieable, et lalubre
au les fievres font inco.n nucs j a environ v ingt 1 le
ie Colombie, la Capitjle, t-t contigues ala viii
de Cambridge, c<u il y a College, er Cour fupen
eure. A environ douze lieues, iI v a bonne navi
gation } et il eft trcs probaole, que dans quelqu
tcmson r-ndra navigable le Grand Saiude. rivicr
qui arrofe les terras mcmes. El les font agreabic
ment diverfifiecs de coteaux et vallons charman
propres a ia culture du tabac, du co;o.n, c'u mai;
it du petit grain ; et dont une proportion confioer
ible fe peutaifement convertir en prairies (e: ii.es
1 n'eft peut-etre gueres pofiible de rancontrerune
piece de terre a vendre dans aucun aytf
iesEtats Unis jet pour les de Tach a
)n les rendra tres commodes.
S'informer a Timprimerie de la Gazette Na
/onale. Sept. 5.
LANDS for SALE,
TN a well fettled Country. SIXTY-FIVE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED A "Ni:
SEVENTY FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in *nc
body, in the nioft populous part of the state •
South-Carolina, in (he diftrift of Nine ;y-fix •-- It
is situated in a fine healthy climaf,free from feve
& ague,about lixty miles from Columbia, the sea:
of government. The land is contiguous to the
•own of Cambridge, where are a feminarv for th e
inftruftion of youth, and a superior law court, it
is at present within thirty-five miles of prod
navigation, with a probability of having the river,
called the Great Saluda, that flows along one fide
of the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
fully diversified into swells and vales, and is per
fe£ll y well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and fuaall grain j a great
proportion of it may be made meadow ground.
There is not, perhaps, fueh a body oflaed, focit
cumftanced, for sale in any other of the U; States.
The terms of payment will be made convenient to
r.he purchaser or purchafeib. Apply Printer.
August 29. lawtf
New-Torh and PhihJ.*lt>b'a
STAGES,
AND
Bordenton, Burlington, and Trenton or
Lamberton
PACKETS.
THE proprietors of the New-York and Phi
ladelphia Land and Water Stages, beg leave
to mention, that for the better accommodation of
the paflengers, they have removed their different
packet boats from their former (land, at the
Crooked Billet Wharf, to the wharf or dock im
mediately next below Arch-ftieet j from whence
a convenient packet boat starts for New-York*
as usual, on every Sunday, Tuesday, Weanefday
and Thursday, and returns on every Tuefdav>
Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The paflage ta
be made either by the way of Bordenton or Bur
lington 5 each place taken alternately.
Fare for paifengers from Phil ad. to N. York 15f
For goods per Cwr. do (y
Van Emburgh and M'Kean,
David Williamfon,
Proprietors of the tine of Netv To*k and Pbilddel
pbia Jiages, by the rout of Bordenton*
Jacob Myers,
jr'-roos Hutchin,
Nicholas Scher.ck,
Proprietors of ike line of Neta Tork and Philadel
phia Jlagis, by tbe rout of Burlfagun.
Bordenton, Oit. 1.
For freight or paflage apply to the matters oa
Board, or to
M'Kean and Van Emburgh;
Who have for fate at tneir (tore on laid wharf,
immediately next below Arch-street,
O'd Madeira, 1 Muscovado,
Teneritfe, and >Wines. Loaf, and >Sugars
Mountain J Lump J
Jamaica Spirits, MolaiTes,
Antigua, 1 Coffee,
Moniferat 8c >Rum. Chocolatc,
Newbury j Bohea Tea,
Rochelle Brandy Burlington Pork,
in pipes, cases and Hams,
demijohns, Flcur,
Gin in pipes and cases* Bar Iron, &c. Arc. £rc.
Qrders for Grain, Staves, Bills of Scantling, or
other Lumber, punctually attended Co*
For freight or patfage to Lamberton or
Trenton, apply at said wharf to Thomas Afh
moore, Wil iam Douglafs, John Ash moo re or
Alexander Douglafs, (Matters on board) or as
above, to M'Kean Ss Van Emburgh.
Philadelphia, Odtober 6, 1792.
KID, and Co.
PERFUMERS, &c.
Have just imported in ihe P 1G O U, and other
late arrivals from Europe, and now open fur
Sale, at their rtore, No. 212, in Market above
S.xth-ftreet,
A gineral assortment of the following
GOODS, viz.
LADIES' and Gentlemens'' japaned dieflinj
cases complete, of all forts
Gentlemens 1 fnaving cases, powder bags, boxes
and powder puff, of all forts
rortoilhell, ivory, and horn corabl, of all kinds
Tooth brulhes, dragon roots and tooth powder
All kirvds of the best cloaihs brufties
Ladies' tortoifhel 1 Aiders for the hair
Best Windsor f ».»p, all kinds of walh balls
Powder masks and court-plaiftcr
oi'ik ourfes and gloves tops
All kinds of rafors* warranted
Pocket, pen, ar.d sporting knives
Scissors of aii kinds
lynching, curling and spring irons
A general aflortrr.ent of pocket.books, ladrrs
thread cases and etwes
Best Engliih, Ch (hire, and Gloucester ftheefes
'//ax, wax candles, and sealing wax
Meifage caids of all kinds
All kinds of hair powdeT
Ehglifb, French, and other pomatums
rambouredj Caflimier and muilinet waistcoat
patterns.
An elegant assortment of
Ready made Milinary,
Confiding of full drufs, Caps, Hats, a..a Bonnet:*
fine chip hats
Black andxoloured beaver hats, best quality
An afl'ortment of the molt fafhionable ribbons
And beads for trimmings and other ornaments.
$Idrve it-.rvif" receivrd a f r tfh f~<pp<y of
MILK o/ % ROSES.
They beg leave to inform the ladies, that they
:<>oti ne to rr: ■ all kinds of oruamental falfe
: air upon an entire new method, and of so light
ind ealy .'1 that they lock better than
.vhe:-i a lady is urefl'ed by the most expert hair
J refler.
An aflor'ment of elegant cut Steel Watch
Chains, Seals, VVa*ch Keys, &c. with a variety of
ther goods, too tedious to enumerate.
November 10. 4W. 2aw*
Manufactured and for Sale,
At No. 11, North SixtA-Jirttl,
Falhionable Round Top and Flat
BUTTONS,
Warranted superior to any imported of
equal price.
Country Store-keepers supplied either in
small or large quantities, By
S. POST & Co.
N.B. Conkthell Buttons, Buckles, &c.
o£t. 17. sawtf
<m^
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and SWAINE
AT THEIR OF? ICE N0.209, HTGH-STREET
Jit AR FIFTH-STREET,
E«ILADELPHIAt