Vol. I.
Tor the National Gazette.
THOUGHTS cn the pref.nt Lc'ian 11,/r.
Ky H. H ) ;Ac:iE\MincE, of Pktfbui-g.
TJ EING occaflor.allv in this city, I feel mv
_l Trlf impelled to give my femnnents on this
filb eft —and 1 give my name in order to obtain
fonts deuce, hetaufe it is to be piefumcd that ?
mnn will not avow what be has not u'ei .li
ed, and in which lue has not confidence himfdf
l am ftnick, foeing in the Gazettes, extracts o
leit.'Sthat weie never wriitt'n, and paragraph'
penned from ignorance or miflake of facts. llav:
irig rcfided fotne years in tho uueftern country
r i.l lyi: . itfufefli'd, 1 have thought much or
the fubjeft —and though 1 may not know mori
tlian the mc- 1 i;norant man there, yet I a'ti per
inaded tfi.lt I know mo than the vr.fcli ">?'
t!i-it has never there.
The writers of extiafis, and the paragraphias
in the firft place, endeavor to affect the public
mind by holding up tie original right ojfthrf
af'O'.'j /Tits to the Jul. It is a ri-.!11 of which i
have never thought with much refpeft. It i
like the claim of the children ; it is mine, for 1
ft,ft saw it—or what that of the PnifT.iloc migh
IC,it is mine for I have firll.run ovei it, I con
luier the c irtltas given to man in common, an"
each fliould «fe his flia r e, lo as not to exclude
othc.s and ftculd he reftricWd toth.it mode of n
fing it which ismofllavorjUeto the support of the
freateft nutni'* is, and confeijuently productive
of the great.-ft luni of happinei's, that is, the cul
tivation of the foil. 1 pay lit tie regard, there
fore, to any right which is not founded in ag.i
(u'tural cccvl u.cy.
But fupuoftng these natives to have hadaneb
folute and exclusive right, is it not deftroved by
a fupcivenient right on our part in confluence
of our treaty with Great Britain * During the
war with that power, were not these natives the
fubGdiavies of the k-ng of England ; were they
not, in his hand, as ihe tomahawk and tealpinr:
fcmfc was in theirs? Was not the territory tr
quedion ceded by the superior poVer * Shall we
treat w-irh the principal, and make concellionsii]
lieu of this conceftion —ar.d shall we agmn trval
with the 'Lbordinate, and puvchafc a treaty
and in li" P'
is ncil' ng Jto be ( «H, Jar tt rcf b-n ami.
What lias appeared in the paper of the other day,
from the Secretary at War, has fupetfeded me
in stating and illuflratmg this.
But as to treaties with thefc Indians, under pre
sent circum'fhinces, 1 can have no confidence tr
t l lem —Why—Do not savages ohferve treaties r
—No longer than the principle ol fear operates;
being indolent, and mote dopofed to acquire by
/ftztnfi than by taming. But under prtfert ar
cunjlun es, all treatv with thera tnufl he nugato
ry. While Canada was in pofTcflion of the
French, were not thefc Indians hoflile to us, anc
regardless of all treaties, because it was not the
interest of that nation that they (hould be at peace
>vith us, when it was in their ppwer to in! i,.:tte
them to a war. A»e we not at this time in the
fame situation with relpeft to the Indians, and the
British in pofTcflion of Canada ' Ihnce it is that
it was expedient, and has been found practicable
toeflablilh treaties with the Creeks, or other na
tions iemo:e from the Briti(h province. Bin
with these Indians, treaties cannot be ellablijned,
or if eflablilbed, would not be observed.
Whether the Britifti government has an eve
to the territory reded, 1 fliall not lay —I rathci
think not : but certainly it has an eye to trie In
dian trade, and on this account supports the sa
vages. I fliall not fay that this is done directly
by the governor of Canada, or the commandam
at Detroit, but cettainly through the medium ol
the Indian agents, and with the knowledge and
approbation of the ministry at home. Why else
are the pofls on the lakes not furicndered, whtr
all pretence of the treatv not heing fulfilled on
our part is taken awav ? How have the Indians,
north of the lakes, been ex'ited, and brought tc
the Miami village to engage in the war cer
tainly, not by the Sbawanefe or Wabaflilndians,
but by the voice of the BritiQi agents who had
stores at Detroit to fjpply them ; two fiorescall
ed the king's with ammunition, cloathing, and
piovifions. — How havefo large a tody oflndram
cj wit cu army in the late engagement, teen Jup■
pdrted hit ly P ovifions J/ <>m the kin 's Jlor j V—
They have been lupplied from a king'sjltne a 1
what are called theKapids,about sixty miles from
the Miami towns. Would Canadian voluntecri
or militia march to ?id these Indians, and not the
government solicit cr enjoin it ? Tliat volunteers
did turn out, as our phrase is, I know, though
rot to what amountthcy may have been in battle.
It is not a war, therefore, with Indians mere
ly ; it is a war with the Britilh king, under cover.
Have we felt the jaw ol the lion, and iliall we
be flill lashed with his tail ?
With refpeft to the tncdf of v. ar, flill to be
pursued: what ? Precisely that which was adopt
ed u.id pursued the lad campaign, but the means
d.tfere.it. More men and higher pay; bccaufe
By P. FRENEAU: Publiftcd Mokdays and f > urn. Do: lass f» .•<
T II U R S D AY, February 2, 1792.
his will procure better men. A greater pro
portion ol lig ht-irtfantry ; or nfle corps would I
jdvifeaMe. But the fyliem a'ready adopted, and
,n part executed, I approve. Ihe cflaMifhmrnt
of forts in the rountrv, and planting ouri !ve* ir
he face of the British province, ?nd c<w nrim
:ho!e Indians that a greater than the Britilh.
whom thi v venerate, are now there.
It is luggc-fted by paragraphifts, that an incur
five war of fma!! parties v. ith a premium so
Icalps, fighting the Indians in their own way
would he bell. It might indeed, harr'afs them
but from the cirCumstances slated, could produci
no fubllantial and ialling f&'ft. It is a!fo con
tended that an incntfive war <5f larger bodies, it
the manner of the Kentucky volunteers lafl year
would avail. I av not. I never considered th;
ICetitucl v expedition under or Scot
ast more than a flounfh ; honorable to thole whs
wei.t, but little fervrceable to thole at 'hone
Indians are seldom fiirprized, cr if in part, th(
whole object is the killing a warrior or two, anc
the carryrng off women and children ; an incum
brance more than a spoil -
There are those who advocate what is caller:
a defenfiv: w'ar, by pofls on the frontiers, an<i
tanging companies. I fay, the bed defence r
'ffenct- InOead of warding off hlows, give one.
It you could (unround the frontier with a rank
and file of men. like the wall of China, and take
care that these Ihould never sleep, you might ex
pect fomethin'. But, polls and ranging compn
nies are but a help and no effectual dcfence. 1;
is but watching bealls of prey, who come again!)
our folds, inflead of penetrating the forefts where
thev haunt, and extirpating the race.
With refpeft tothe morle of war, I am confi
dent the eflablilhing ourselves in the face of Ca
nada will alone be efteflual; but, with refped
to the loute, would suggest, whether by the way
of lake Erie would not have been advifcabie :
that is, by eflablifliing a garrison at Prelq'ifle anc
nodding armed vessels on the lakes, to tranfporl
troops and convey provisions; again, a post or
the weft of the lake, and from thence the pro
gress to the Miami Towns. At leaf!, wheihei
as tilings now flatid that rout not to be em
braced I have not the feaUcil doubt, but thai
iinlefs effective arrangements are made £ur the
, jna r&, tne facr of tse Sis
Nations, and so as to Jpeedily loflrike them, they
will avow themselves; for, I aver that except a
few chiefs,they are in difpolilion hoflile, and no
thing but the principle of fear rellrains them at
this moment.
A earrifon at Prefq'ifle would secure theii
neutrality, or perhaps engage them to ast in our
favour. —It is thrown out by the paragraphias,
few of whom I '.ake 10 be cut of this city, thai
the poffiflion and fectirity ol the wellern territo
ry ought not to be an object with these Dates ;
we have, it (eems,foil enough.— Be it so- I cn
f[ lire only whataie the bell means of protecting
tUe lettlements on this fid - ofihe rivers ?—I fay,
the only means is by teaching the lource of ho'ii
litv, and taking the commanding ground of pofis
to the weflward.
But is not the government bound to give
peaceable fojjijfwn of the wellern foil to those to
whom they liave fold, and to their olficeis and
foldvers to whom they have made grants P Shall
every tbi f be done to luppoit credit 111 making
a liberal provifton for tlie public debt; even
though this has brought a great evil, fortunes ril
ing like exhalations fiom, the eaith, by oilier
means than common iuduflry ; and lhall the pub
lic difiegard their taith pledged in the cases above
mentioned'—All who wilh the preservation ol
our confederacy ought to feel an alarm at all
ideas of dereliction of the claims and rights of a
ny part of the community. The conlequences
may be fatal to all who have any hopes from
government, or any i, tS-reft in it.
It may be laid, that taking the £
lakes, building armed vessels, and occupying
polls in the neighbourhood of Niagara and Dc
tioit, may involve us in a war with Britain.
Of that there is no danger. If our merchant
men are in the power of the British navy, theiri
are in the power of our privateers; and they get
more by our imports from them in peace, than
by the captures they in war; and the
province of Canada and the fur-trade of the well,
is a flake which they have to lole.
If the world has been aflonifhed at our rising,
if they have leen the meridian beams of our
Ipkndor in ellablifhing public credit, letthetn not
regret our meanness and want of fprrit in luiler
ing the out-guards of our country, the frontier
lettlements, to be cut to pieces by the axe of the
lavage, when the probability is, 1 think, certain
ty, that it is put into their hands by our late inve
terate, but, difcomlited enemy.
1 beg the public to excuse these things, written
haflily ; and let th.-m have their weight with e
very humane and good man, which the real'on ol
them may fuppoit. I fay, humane ; bccaufe 1
am persuaded humanity is not' on the fide of the
lavages, but on our fide. Thry have been the
sggreflors. They arc not to be appeased. They
efuf- *11 frratv, or rrfpeft none. Thcv fan
not," ,r it not the will of diole by whom they
we r
]t said, the Britifii government ca»not poln
Sly {• nntenanre their people, tor thg command
in: r officers at Detrnit are humane to our pn-
Mid actually ptirt.hafe them at a great price
frt-'T the savages. No doubt—it is but a little
itihll'"Y jo redeem o captive, but a great matter to
have hnr armies dnjjeatrd, and excluded from the
i oun'l-Y.
In .noting over what I have written, there is
no (i mment that I would retrench ; but add one
mo»<" ih. Why dread theexpenfe of an effec
tive id.fading armament for the purpoles (uj
lUjj ? The moment we take command of the
5, indeed of leaving them to Britain, the
fu- vof the immense woild of the well will
arr.'ii' repay "» creating a trade to the sea coall
1.1 i of which at present they have no idea.-—-
1 fav, trbe command of the Indians; 1 - 0:..v
way ijfc«hicl>, i-s to jila""* onrfclves upon an equal
grour.t with our rivals, impreis the
with i i opinion that "*e are at lfcail an equal
power, All treaty with them until they ate
mm' wi arid reduced isabfurd; ad* even then
to be /ro.nftdered as of duiation no longer than
while 'lie external prelTure of apprehended force,
down.
At t fonie tinre tlie lntereHs 01 tiat.e rn -.\'
ronci! ..ts and bind tfccm, and we may have it in
nur !• „wer to make a proper tile of theft peo
ple. Plnlad. Jan. 31, 179--.
AUTHENTIC.
•ECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At tV* f rft oellion, begun and held at the city ol
l'tjifrfelphia, io the Uate of Peun<yl7ania
. 'itdnday the f.venty-fpurth of OSober, one
tho'iJUud seven hmidred arid ninety-one.
An A' T making Appropriations for the Support
of. {. ' venrm:r:t for the year cue thousand Jive
h in. id and ninety two.
of Re present at ives of the Dnitec,
States of America, in Congress affembkd,
That for the service of the year one thou
find seven hundred and ninety-tv o, and
Lhe support of the civil lift of the United
States, including the incidental and con
tingent expenses of the several departments
and office.; thereof, there flia.ll be appro
priated a furn of money not exceeding three
hundred and twenty-nine thousand, f.:;
hundred and fifty three dollars, and fifty
!ix cents : that is to fay.
For the compenfatious rranted by law
to the President of the United State ;, the
Chief Jultice, Aflociate
[udg°~, and Attorney-General, fifty-three
.houfr.qd dollars.
For the like compenfat'ons to the Dif
rict Judges, nineteen thousand eight hun-
Ired dollars.
l or-the like compensations to the mem
bers of the Senate and House of Reprefen
atives, and the officers and attendants of
:he ttvo Houses, ellimated on a sessions of
ax month - continuance, and including the
'.ravel iing expenses of the members, one
lundted and twenty-nine thousand, seven
hundred and thirty dollars.
For the like compensations to the Secre
fary and officers of the several departments
of the Treasury of the United State?, in
cluding clerks and attendants, and the sa
laries of the refpeftive loan-officers, lix
ty thousand three hundred dollars.
For the like compensations to the Secre
tary and officers of the department of
(Mfe, fix thousand three hundred dollars,
the like compensations to the Secre
:ary and officers of the department of War,
nine thousand fix hundred dollars.
For the like compensations to the mem
bers of the Board of Commiifioners, for
:he settlement of the acopunt- between the
United States and tfie individual Hates, in
cluding clerks and attendants, thirteen
rhoufandor.e hundred dollars.
For the like compensations to the Go
vernors, Judges, and other officers of the
Western Territory of the United States,
ncluding contingencies, eleven thousand
lollars.
Fox the payment of the annual grant to
Baron Steuben, pursuant to an act of Con
gress, two thousand fi've hundred dollars.
For the payment of sundry pensions.
granted by the late government, two thou
sand seven hundred aftd sixty-seven dollars,
and seventy three cents.
For defraying all other incidental anc
contingent expenses of the civil lift efta
blilhment, including firewood, ffationary
Numb. 28.
together with the printing work, and all
other contingent expenSes of the two
oufes of Ongrefs, r.-nt and office expen
ses of the three Several departments, name
ly, T.reafury. State, War, and of the ge
neral Board of Commiflioners, twenty-one
thousand five, hundred and fifty live dollars,,
and eighty-three cents.
And be it further ens&cd, That the com
pensation to the d'ocr-keepers of the two
l-ioufes, for Service ~ which have been here-'
tofore ren.'cri- 1 or may be rendered in the
receSs of Congress for the year one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety-two, and
certified by the President of the Senate or
Speaker of the House of Representatives,
in manner req: ,; red by law, for like Ser
vices during fsflioiis, (hallbe discharged out
of the money herein before
fi-,r the contingent expenses of the two
f7«jufes rff Cbngrtfs.
And be it further enacted* Tiiat for dif
charjrtnj; ccr.ain liquidated claims upon the
United States, for making good deficien
cies in former appropriations for the sup
■ irt of the civil'Mift eftabliihment, and for
aiding the fund appropriated for the pay-
Inent of certain officers of the courts, ju
. ,i|*s and witnefiij', and for the efiablifhment
of ten cutters, there lhall be appropriated a
futn of money not exceeding one hundred
and ninety-leven thousand, one hundred
and nineteen dollars, and forty-nine cents ;
that is to fay.
For discharging a balance due on a liqui
dated claim of hi ; molt Christian IVTajeftv
against the United States, for supplies du
ring the late war, niue thousand andtvren
ty dollars, and lixtv-elght cents.
For payme.it of the principal and inter
est on a liquidated claim of Oliver Pollock,
late commercial agent of the United States,
at New-Orleam, for Supplies of floathing,
arms and military store , during the late
war, one hundred and eight JhouSa'nd, Six '
hundred and five dollars, and two cent"- :
Provided, That the.Said monies be noywld
to the ftiid Qliv|r witfioutilie tt£V
tefft of the n'gefrts plthS court of Spain.
For making good deficiencies in the ?il ! .
appropriations for the compensations to
sundry officers of the civil lift-eftablilhmenc,
five thousand four hundred and seventy-one
dollars.
For defraying Sundry authorized expen
ses to the commiflioners of loans in tile se
veral states, twenty-one thouSand dollars.
For defraying a balance of certain liqui
dated and contingent expenses in the Irea
ltiry-department, two thousand eight hun
dred dollars.
For defraying the additional expend' of
the enumeration of the inhabitants of the
United States, nineteen thousand seven hun
dred and Seventy-two dollars and Seventy
nine cents.
For making good a deficiency in former
appropriations, to discharge the expenses to
clerks, jurors and witnesses in the courts
of the United States, five thouSand dollars.
For the maintenance and repair of light
houses, beacons, piers, stakes and buoys,
fix teen thousand dollars.
For the expense of keeping prisoners
committed under the authority of the Uni
ted States, four thousand dollars.
For the expense of clerks and books in
arranging the public Securities, two thou
sand four hundred and fifty dollars.
For the purchale of hydrometers for the
nfe of the officers in the execution of the
laws of revenue, one thousand dollars.
For the farther expense of building and
equipping ten cutters, two thousand dol
lars.
And be it further enacted, That for the
lupport of the military eftabliihment of the
United States, in the year one thousand se
ven hundred and ninety-two, the payment
of the annual allowances to the invalid pen-
Roners of the United States, for defraying
all expences incident to the Indian depart
ment, and for defraying the expenses in
curred in the defenfive protection of the
frontiers against the Indians, during the
years one thousand seven hundred and nine
ty, and one thousand Seven hundred and
ninety-one,by virtue of the authority veiled
in the President of the United States, by the
acts relative to the military eftabliihment,
palfed the twenty-ninth of September, one
thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine,
and the thirtieth of April, one thousand
seven hundred and ninety, and for which,
no appropriations have been made, there
fhall'be appropriated a sum of money, not
exceeding five hundred and thirty-two
thousand, four htindred and forty-nine dol
lars, Seventy-fix cents, and two thirds of a
cent: that is to fay,For the piy of the troop's, one hundred
and two thoufa id, fix. hundred ar.d eighty -
fix dollars.
For fubice, nuc hi) wired and nineteen
thousand, fix hundred and eighty-eight dol
lar.;, and ninety-seven cents.
For cloathing, forty -eight thousand dol
lars.
For forage, four thousand one hundred
and fifty-two dollars.
For the hospital-department, fix thoufani'
dollars.
For the quarter-mailer's department,
fifty thousand dollars.
For the ordnance department, seven thou
sand two hundred and four dollars and fix
ly-rour cents.
For the contingent expenses of the wai
department, including maps, hire of ex
prefies, allowances to officers for extra-ex
penses, printing, loss of flores of all kinds
advertiung and apprehending deserters
twenty thousand dollars.
For the discharge of certain funis duefoi
pay and fubiittence of sundry officers of th<
'ate army, and for pay of* the late Marvlanc
line, for which no appropriations have bee 1
made, ten thousand four hundred and nine
tv dollars, and thirty-fix cents.
For the payment of the annual allowance
to invalid pensioners, eighty-fev en thoufant
four hundred and sixty-three dollars, fixt;
cents and two thirds of a cent.
For defraying all expenses incident to th<
Indian department, authorized by law
thirty-nine thousand four hundred an<
twenty-four dollar.;, and seventy-one cents
For defraying the expenses incurred ii
the defeniive protection of the frontiers, a
before recited, thirty-seven thousand, threi
hundred and thirty-nine dollars, and forty
eight cents.
And be it further ena£ted, That the fe
veral appropriations, herein before made
fhali be paid and discharged out of the fund
following, to wit; tint, out of the sumo
fix hundred thousand dollars, which by th<
act, intituled " An a:r making provifi'on foi
the debt of the United States," is reserved
yearly, for the fnpport of die governmen
of the United States, and the>r common de.
fence ; and fecor.d'.y, out of such lurplus a:
niail have accrued to the end of the prefeni
year, upon me revenues heretofore efta
blilhed, over and above the funis neceifarj
for tiie payment of interelt nr» the public
debt during the fime year, and for fatisfy
ing other prior appropriations.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of tki
Houje of Representatives.
John Adams. Vice-President of tin
United States, and Prejidcnt
of the Senate.
Approved December twenty-third' 1791.
G. Washington., President of the
United States.
FOR the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
UNIVERSAL PEACE.
AMONG the various reforms which have
been offered to the world, the pro
jects for universal peace have done the
greatelt honor to the hearts, though they
seem to have done very little to the heads
of their authors. Roufieau, the mo ft dis
tinguished of these philanthropies, has re
commended a con r ederation of sovereigns,
under a council of deputies, for the double
purpose of arbitrating external controver
sies among nations, and of guaranteeing their
relpective governments against internal re
volutions. He was aware, neither of the
itnpofiibility of executing hi pacific plan
among governments which feel so many al
lurements to war, nor, what is more ex
traordinary, of the tendency of his plan to
perpetuate arbitrary power wherever it
exilted ; ar.d, by extinguishing the hope of
one day feeing an end of oppreiliou, to cut
off the only source of consolation remaining
to the opprefled.
A universal and perpetual peace, it is to
be feared, is in the catalogue of events,
which Will never exiit but in the imagina
tions of visionary philosophers, or in the
breads of benevolent enthulialh. It is flill
however true, that war contains so much
folly, as well as wickedness, that much is
to be hoped from the progress of reason :
and if any thing is to be hoped, every thing
ought to be tried.
Wars may be divided into two classes;
one flowing from the mere will of the
government, the other according with the
will of the society itfelf.
Tliofe of the firit class can no otherwise
be prevented than by such a reformation of
the government, as may identify its will
with the will of the society. The project
of Roufieau, was, consequently, as prepos
terous as it was impotent. Instead of be
ginning with an external application, and
even precluding internal remedies, he ought
to have commenced with, and chiefly reiTed
on the latter prescription.
He fnould have said, whilfl war is to de
pend on tliofe whole ambition, whose re
venge, whole avidity, or whose caprice may
contradict the sentiment of the community,
and yet be uncontrolled by it ; whilst war
is to be declared by thole who are to spend
the public money, not by those who are to
pay it; by those who are to dire it the pub
lic forces, not by those who are to support
Js-mi ; 1 v those whnft pnr.'er L to be raised.
not bv thpfe whose chains inay be riveted
-Vie disease must coijtinue to be hereditary
like the government of which it is the pff
rpring. As the firft step towards a cure,
the government itfelf must be regenerated.
Its wiH must be made subordinate to, 01
rather the fame with, the will of the com
munity.
Had Ron fie mi lived to fee the conftrfuti
ons of the United State* and of France, hi;
judgment might have escaped the cenfurc
to which his prajeft has exposed it.
The other claf; of war;, correfpondins
with the public will, are less susceptible ol
remedy- There are antidotes, neverthe
less, which may not be without their effica
cy. As wars of the firft class were to be
prevented by fubjefting the will of the gov
ernment to the will of the society, thole ol
the second, can only be controuled by fub
iefting the will of the society to the reSkfor
>f the society; byeftablifhing permanentanc
ronftitutional maxims of conduCt, whicl
may prevail over occasional impressions.
ind inconsiderate pursuits.
Here our republican philosopher S»ighi
lave proposed as a model to lawgivers; thai
ivar should not only be declared by th(? au
hority ofthe people, whose toUs and trea
"uresare to support its burdens, instead o:
:he government which is to reap its fruits
nit that each generation fliocld be made t(
iear the burden of its own wars, inftend o
■arryiug them 011, at the expence of tithe;
.fenerations. And to give the fill!c-ft ejer
;y t6 hi'- plan, he might have added, tha
each generation should not only bear
jurdens, but that the taxes
hould include a due proportion of ftich a
jy i heir direct operation keep the peoph
iwake, along with those, which being wrap
">ed up in other payments, may leavejhSn
ifleep. to misapplications of their money.
To the objection, if llarted, that when
:he benefits of v.-ar descend to fucceedin;
generations, the burdens ought also to de
scend. he might have answered ; that th<
exceptions could not be easily made f that
f attempted, they must be made by one on
y of "the p irties interested : that in th<
ilternative of facrificing exceptions So ge
leral rules, or of converting exception:
nto general rules, the former is the leflei
-vil ; that the expense of ncceflaryw-er*, wil
lever exceed the refourcer. of an entire gen
eration ; that, in fine, the objection vanifh
;s before the faß, that in every natior
vh'ch has drawn on pofter'ty for the fup
lort of its w irs, the accumulated ir.tercjl of it:
>erpetual debts, hasfoon become more thar
ifujficient principal, for all its exigencies.
Were a nation to impose such restraint 1
>11 itfelf, avarice would befure to calculate
he expence?: of ambition; in the e , .idift
-f these paflions, r'eafon would b; v> : tc
lecide for the public good ; and an aplt
■eward would accrue to the state. firft, from
he avoidance of all its wars of foilv, fe
tidly, from the vigor of its unwafted re
burces for wars of neceflity and defence.
Were all nations to follow the example.
:he reward would be doubled to each ; and
:he temple of Janus might be shut, nevertc
)e opened more.
Had Roufleau lived to fee the rapid pro
rref-, of reason and reformation, which the
>resent day exhibits, the philanthrope
.vhich dictated his pro'ect would find a rid
■n'oyment in the scene before hin>: And
ifter t racing the past frequency of wars tc
i will in the government independent oi
he will of the people ; to the practice b)
each generation of taxing the principal ol
ts debts on future generations ; and to the
acility with which each generation is fedu
:ed into afl'umptions of the interest. by the
inceptive species of taxes which pay it; he
.vouid contemplate, in a reform of every
government fubjeiiing its will to that oi
he people, in a fubje&ion of each genera
ion to the payment of its own debts, and
n a ftibftitution of a more palpable, in place
>f an imperceptible mode of payitg them.
:he only hope of universal'and perpe-
I'JAL peace.
Philadelphia, January 31, 1792.
PHIL ADELP HI A.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, Jan. 30.
The Speaker la d before the House alet
:er from the Secretary at War, accompani
ed with copies of the official communica
tions between the executive of the United
States and the Governor of Pennsylvania,
lipon the fubic-fl of the temporary defenfive
protection of the frontiers of aid state.—
Read, and ordered to lie on the table.
A message was received from the Senate
by Mr. Otis, informing the House that the
Senate have palled the bill " for eftablifli
uig the poll-office and post-roads within
the United States," with amend
ment-, to which the concurrt-nce of the
House is deiired.
The House then in committee of the
whole took into consideration the bill for
making further and more provi
lon for the of tlx ftjonlkrs of
he United States. After feme time.fperjl
:herein, the committee rose and reported
amendments, \\ hicii beiiifj read, some v.'ere
agreed to and others dif agreed to —A mo
tion was made further to amend the bill by
(trikhiji out the fecopd lection, viz. " That
there {hall be raised three addition; 1 ! regi
ments of infantry, each of which, exclusive
ly of the commissioned officers, dial! (onliti
of nine hundred and twelve non-con ruif
fioned officers, privates and mullcnm?'' —
which was negatived —Yeas iX. Najs. 34.
Adjourned.
Tuesday, Jan. 31.
Mr. Speaker laid before the House a re
port from the Secretary at War, on the pe
titions offuudry persons who were beyond
the sea at the expiration of the time pre
"cribed by the limitation ast, for the adjust
ment of claims against the United States.
T he report (which is in favor of the peti
tioners) was read, and ordered to lie on the
table.
The House then resumed the considera
tion of the bill making more effectual pro
vision for the protection of the frontier ;
whereupon the gallery was ordered to be
cleared.
Wednesday, February 1.
The committee, to whom was referrec
the memorial of John Churchman, made s
report, which was read and ordered to lie
on the table.—[The report dates, that Mr.
Churchman is entitled to the applause oi
the enlightened world, and to the encour
agement and support of his country ; that
as a greater and more accurate knowledge
of the variation of the magnetic needle
would answer many valuable purposes, en
couragement ought to be given to such per
sons as contribute towards perfecting thai
desirable knowledge ; and that Congref;
may with propriety patronize such a perfor
as Mr. Churchman, and grant him such aic
as may be neceflary to enable him to pro
secute his laudable enquiries to good effect.
The committee, however, submit to the
House the propriety of making such a granl
at the present time : but recommend ar
encreafe in the penalties for copying charts,
maps, &c.]
An engrofied bill, making further anc
more effectual provision for the protectioi
sf the Frontiers, was taken up for a thirc
reading, and to have the blanks filled up .
whereupon the galleries were cleared.
PHILADE L P H I A,
February 2, 1792.
The following is a return of the quanti
fy of grain brought (by water) into the
?ort of Philadelphia, cluring the year 179; :
. - iz. 402, 720 1-4 bultiels or' wheat— 3,111
5-4 of rye—lndian corn 621,074—0at5,
13,301 —barley, 39,551 1-2 —peas and bean;
42,581 —Total, 1,102,339 1-2 bulhels.
We hear from Albany that wheat oi
3rime quality is fold there at6Jhillings (N
fork currency,) and Indian corn, three
hillings, per bu!hel in exchange for goods.
It never was the wi(h of any govern
mental body that the fubjefls of their go
vernment {hould be too well informed—ai
jpinion having prevailed in the world fro.r
;he earliest ages that the ignorance of t!«
governed contributed moit to the peact
ong continuance, and well being of ar. em
pire. This principle we fee enforced in it:
'till extent in the fotitheadern parts of £u
-ope, where the light of knowledge is ex
luded with the press. If the press itfelf can
lot be prohibited in some other countries
ind has taken too deep a root to be eaiilj
haken, the only means left the * rons o:
>olitical ignorance to accompli (h tneir pur
>ofe is, to limit as much as poflible the erfu
ions of the press. It rests then with the
>eople thcmfelves, who are the fountain 01
rovernment, to I'emand. the free circulatior
jf political information, and to open those
ive'nues of intelligence which every go
vernment finds its account in obllructing.
On Monday next the Supreme Court of
he United States will meet at the new
2ostrt Hpufe tn this city, when it is expec
;ed, the important queition will be agitated
md fettled Whether a State can be
:ompel!ed to appear and answer to a Pro
ofs ifluing from that Court ?
A considerable shock of an earthquake was
"elt at Quebec on the 6th of December last.
it Paul's Bay were diftinftly felt tweuty
line lhocks.
Accounts were some time since pnblifhed
if the infamous murder ofMr. Hogeboome,
lieriff of Albany county. New-York, by
me or more cowardly affaflins, who way
aid and Ihot him on the road. The last
wpers from the northward, mention the
leath of his widow, Mrs. Sarah Hoge
>oome. on the 16th ult. as an undoubt
?d consequence of the cruel fate of her huf
jand.
On the 17th ult. a very extraordinary
:ircumftance arrested the attention of the
Legislature of Mafl'achufetts Kay. A peti
tion was presented by a woman, praying
.ompenfation for services rendered as a pri
vate soldier in the army of the United
"i.-.tfc."- «-'r, "i:j the late war. It items (Tie
hf.. - ! fe: vec three.years and had received an
honor; b':e difcharie at the conclusion of the
v. :-r. t.Jie had entitled as a male, had fuf
raired ail irreproachable chara&er, and,
from all appearatrees (fays a Rofton paper)
will receive a compensation adequate to her
br vices and honorable to the government.
Ou Monday last died, in this city in ths
r,d. year o-f his age, Mr. Peter Markoe,
i Gentleman well known in the American
if erarv world for his eminent poetical abil.
ties. He was a native of the Danish i(l
----indofSt. Croix, in the Weft-Indies, but
ind r elided for many years in Philadelphia.
In a late paper appears the dying
peech, confeffion, &c. of William Cmning
(am, who, according to these documents,
a .is executed in London the roth of Au
;uft, 1791. " When the American war
;ommenced (fays he) I was appointed Pro
fit Marlhal to the Royal army, which pla
:ed me in a situation to wreak my ven
geance on the Americans, many of whom I
jiurdered with and without orders from
rovernment. During the time we were in
Sew-York, there were more than two
:houfand prisoners flarved in the different
:hurches. by flopping their rations, which
[sold —There were also two hundred &
"eventy-five American prisoners and ob- i
loxious persons executed, out of all which
lumber there were only about one dozen
jublic executions, which chiefly confuted
)f British and Hessian deserters. The mode
"or private execution was thus conduced :
1 guard was d:(patched from the provost,
ibout half after twelve at night, to Barrack
kreet, and the neighbourhood of the up
ier Barracks, to order the people to (hut
:heir window shutters and put out their
ights, forbidding them at the fame time,
lot to look out of their windows or doors
an pain of death ; after which the uufor
:unate prisoners were conducted gagged
iuft behind the upper barracks, and hung
without ceremony, and there buried by the
ilack pioneer of the provost."—The crime
'or which Cunningham is said to have fuf
"ered was forging a draft on the Board of
Drdnance for three hundred pounds Ster
ing.
According to the form of the new eonftitutiori
if Canada as paflVd into an A£l by the Parlia
ment of Britain and fantfioned by the King, the.
lumber of members of the legislative councils is
imited as follows : Seven for Upper Canada,
»nd fiiteen tor Lower Canada, the legislative
:ouncillor's heirs lo succeed in rotation, if wor
hy. The number of members to compose the
Houfcs of AfTembly in the two provinces, are
10 for Upper Canada, and for Lower Canada,
lie province to be divided bv proclamation. Ve
ers eligible who have rented a houWof 101. per
Ifsnum One ycai • Ihe with rcf
left to the divifionof the province, to be prior
othe lft of January, 1792. The executive
:ouncils are likewise to call the legislative coun
ts and houses of afTembly before the expiration
of ihe said year 1792.
The Bifliop of Nova-Scolia governs the Cler
gy ill these provinces, who are to be allowed as
ythes one seventh of all grants of lands.
At a stated meeting of the American Phi
ofophical Society, January 20th, the sol
.owing gentlemen, Foreign and American,
were duly elected members :
Count Paul Andreani (member of several
iterary societies) of Milan, Italy.
Rodolph Valltravers, Esq. F.R.S. Ham
lurgh.
Anthony Fothergill, M.D. of Bath, Eng.-
and.
Anthony Renatus Charles Mathurin de la
Fort ft, vice-consul general of France, to
:he United States.
M. Joseph Ceracchi, of the city of Rome.
Palifot de Beauvois, de la Societe des
sciences & Arts du Cap Francois; and,
.-rrefpondent de L'Academie des Sciences
ie Piris.
John Rouelle, M.D.
Mr. Richard P. Barton, of Mount Airy,
Dinwiddee county, Virginia.
Doctor David Jackson, of Philadelphia.
Dodtor William Smith, ditto.
Nicholasß. Waters, M.D. ditto.
Extract from the minutes,
Samuel Mag Aw, SecVy.
Letters from Portugal fay, that the mea
ures resolved upon by the Supreme Coun
:il to preserve the Empire from the princi
ples now prevailing in F ranee, are observed
.v'th the greatest rigor. It is not only pro
iib: ed to read French newspapers, pam
ihlets, See. bnt any even upon iimilar mat
ers, or the least partial interference, whe
lier for oragainlt the National Allembly, is
rested as a crime. Several persons, both
ore;gners and natives, have been seized for
ranfgreiling those laws. The French Am
laf'ador has lately desired the Court to de
iverup a Frenchman of quality, whom he
mew to have been seized for speaking his
houghts with too much freedom. The
Jourt desired the AmbaH'ador to relcue the
fiftim from the hands of any jurifdiaion
•vhere he Ihould find him. The ftriaeft
ind most diligent search has been made on
he part of the Ambafl'ador ; but he being
inable to find the ill-fated object any wher>_,
natters must reit as they are. Orders havebeen sent to the frontiers, and to all the liar
br>rs of the kingdom, to fuffer 110 flraflger:
to enter the country, nor go 0:1 fhorfc, with
out his having been previ6ufly examined ;
andfome strangers mult, in Jimiiar cases
obtain a special permission from the Court
The Portuguese troop- are to hold .them
ielves in a state of complete readinef;. I
is reported, that the Court of Madrid ha:
requeued an army of 12,c00 auxiliarie;
from the Queen, to which her Majelty i:
fid to nave answered, that the present cri
us of the affairs of the kingdom render i
d t lgerous to fend off any troops, whoft
presence was more th in ever necelTary t(
maintain peace : her M jjelly, however, wa
ready, in cafe the cabinet of Madrid fhouU
1 e [uire, to fend fub'idies in money to de
fray tiie e:s.pence; of railing and maintaining
12 ,qco me 1. All the civil department
have received orders speedily to collect al
(landing debts, to furnifh the Royal Trea
ury with lutiicient funis- for any emer
gency. [London paper
The following wholesome advice was, in a lat<
New- \ ork paper, given to pcrfons intending t<
rilabliHri or be concerned in B-inks, —In the firi
rlace you are advised to " look over the state o
your accounts, and fee really how you Hand afte
iiil your just demands are paid, and a fulfrcient lun
taken to carry on the bufmefs you arc in and ac
quainted \vith ; keep a fufticient flock for thi
purpose, and employ it with care and indnftry
it will be more prodi'.6live to you in thisline, thai
&nv becanfe its what you are w«ll acquaint
t*d with, and of course mull fiacceed in. If afte
von have taken a fair state of your finances, ar.<
£nd you have more money than you want so
carrying on your trade, no better mode than pu
it into a Bank, where your property is fafe, am
can borrow it back when you (land in want of it
with a good grace. But to put money into ;
Bank with an intention to borrow it back whei
you cannot spare it, is a great folly ; to pu
ycurfelf and friend to the trouble of endorfinj
your notes to borrow back your own money
when yo 1 might have kept it in your own hands
and been supplied occafionaliy at the Bank wirl
a Loan when you flood in need of it. At thi
time people (eem to be full of speculation, an<
dream of getting rich in that line,& without eithe;
care or mduftry to jump into a fortune at once.—
Banking has been profitable to the citizens o
New-York. Should the Bank of New-York
and the Branch Bank of the United States, now t<
be opened in this city, not be able to accommo
date the citizens who are borrowers, and can pa]
again, using the money to advantage ; if so, thcr
there isreem and occasion for anofher Bank
But if the Bank of New-« ork, and the Brand
1 ank are able to discount all the good paper offe
red by the citizens, certainly another tank i
ceedicfs, and will not be productive to the stock
holders ; and the citizens should think deliberate
ly about a Lufinefs of so great- importance befon
they begin : The mode in which the Millioi
Pan* lias been conduced, I hope will be a lcfFoi
to t(ke citizens how to let about another wit!
more mature deliberation, that the fabric ma}
ft ana and prove ufeful.
Travflatiovs from French papers.
BRUSSELS, Oaober 21.
The white cockade and regimental uniform o
the French Emigrants is rather in di(grace a
mong us ol late. '1 bey are forbidden by go
vernment either to assemble or perform their ex
ercises, even without arms ; and have been no
tified that they are to consider them Pelves upor
the footing of strangers, who are admitted to re
side amongst us upon the terms of general hofpi
talky, and not as refugees to meditate hoflile de
figiis again ft a neighbouring power, oyr good
ally the French nation. This very day, orders
have been iffucd to station three grenadiers upon
the ft age of the play house for comedy, to pre
fervc order amidli a host of French emigrants,
and prevenr the audience from the insults o(
thole blufteiing bravoes.
1 'ie lupreme council of Brabant have pro
nounced a fcntence, replete with firmnef#, and
even rigour, againtl the refractory states. It is
fuppoled a private answer has been received from
the Emperor, authorizing the council to begin,
with this a£t, the hofliiities which are to be ex
pe&ed between them and the"States.
LISLE, Oclober 20.
M. Victor Vergnette, lieutenant-colo
nel of the firft regiment of cavalry, on the day of
his desertion from the French army on the
northern frontiers, wrote a letter to the officers of
his regiment, in which he accounts for the mo
tives of his condufi. It is obfervablc that M-
Vergnette does not, like some other commiflion
ed defer ters, bring the want of subordination in
liis regiment, as the reason of his dereli&ion. On
the contrary he does them the greatest juflice in
this rc(pe£f He declares, " that it is with great
regret he detaches himfelf from a regiment,
\vhofe reputation has been untarnished amidst so
many difficulties, difaOers and vexatious trea
sons. He adds that nothing but the ciifis to
which matters are now brought could have
tempted him to feparatc from his brave phalanx :
at present, however, continues he, all that is left]
me to do is to re-unite myfelf to the powers of
Europe (who h lve armed for the express purpose
©frefloring order) and to the ancient nobility of
France, who, as having been accustomed for so
many ages to facrifice both life and fortune to the
prosperity of their country, would prefer peril
ing honorably with their arms in their hands, to
the mortmcaiiqn thev mud other wife undergoin
,n £ rat ' lu^e trcafon go unpunished."
the following manner he juftifies himfelf for
carrying off with him the white (landard of the
regiment
" The white standard of the kingdom
having beenentrufted to my care, it was
doubtless my duty to preserve it imfullied ;
and I, as your officer, gave you an exam
ple of obedience, in fubmittiii" to the exe
crable ceremony of fubftitutiug with im
pure hands, in its place the despicable rag
of three colours, because then there was yet
room to hope for a reform. I can at pre
sent no other way atone for this fault than
by relloring their Standard to tiie French
nobility, before whom, in all f.'.vs, il has
traced out the way to glory. The dema
gogues, who prefer the three-coloured
clout (netu flag of Frar.ce) will be little fen
iib!e of their loss, and the less so", as they
will never be hereafter admitted to tram
ple upon the ancient standard of the kings of
France."—As to the i6,8c0 livres which he
took out of the treasury chest, he allures
the regiment, that nothing could have de
termined him to an action of this nature,
but the desire of relieving the necessities of
such of the officers as should think proper
to quit the new-fangled government, and
adhere to the ancient nobility—he after
wards adds, that the money (hall remain
untouched, and paid to no one except by
order of the princes, to whom he holds him
felf bound to give an account of his pro
ceedings.
\_The following is the avfwer of the officers cf M.
Vergrtelte's regiment. J
" Aftnated with sentiments of honour,
even towards a traitor, we have endeavor
ed to juftify you in the base dereliction ol
the can eof freedom and virtue. The on
ly excuse, however, that we can frame for
your flight, is the native baseness of your
fp'rit. Vain indeed is your pitiful attempt
to seduce the officers of your late regiment
— little do you know of them, if you ima
gine they are capable of corruption, They
de pise you too much, and entertain too
horrid an idea of your infamous treason, to
tread in the steps of_one of the moll per
fidious of the human race. Hitherto we
had been deceived by that hypocritical con
duct which you kept up amongst us till the
infamy of your character could no longer
support it. Honour and ourrefpeft for the
regulations of military difcipliiie, imposed
upon the confidence which we wished to
repose in our commanding officer. You
have indeed deceived us. and in so doing
have proved yourfelf a traitor, a perjured
wretch. You have not only meanly stolen
away the precious depoft which was confi
ded to your care, but, more than that, you
have all'um'd the charatfer of a thief in brea
king open and plundering the military chefl
of the regiment.—The loss of the standard
of France has indeed struck us with horror-
It would be an irreparable loss, if we had
not the hope to obtain one of three colours
which the regiment has, bv deputation, 10
licited from the municipality of Lille, and
from our refpe£table generals. Under this
new (ignal for rallying, we will fight, we
will pulverize without mercy all traitors,
perjured and villainous perfous like your
felf.
Having thus avowed our sentiments
in the face of day, forbear endeavoring
to seduce us by your abominable letters,
the reading of which fills us with hor
ror. Avail yourfelf now of your irre
broachable conduEl ; of your dif.inguifhed
opinions, under which you shield your
lelf, to make dupes and new victims.
Our patriotilm will protest us from the
Inares laid for the friends of the Consti
tution and good order by the enemies ol
bo th. Ihe regiment whom you lobafe-
Iy attempt to flatter, means always to
march in the path of honor, and would
have died to have had a commander
who could fay as much—We return
you this our public answer from the
public printing press, because we would
not debase ourlelves 'o much as to ad
dress you direttly in a letter.—Wefhall
also print your letter, that the world
may be fully acquainted with your cow
ardice, your hypocrisy, and the wick
ed perfidy of your character. Depofnit
votcntcs de fede, et exaltavit. humiles.
Signed with a long lift of names ol
officers of different ranks.
Stockholm (Sweden) Ocl. 4. —It is now
confirmed, that his Majesty, having un
derllood that the king of France has, oi
his own choice, accepted the new French
constitutional code, renounces all hoftik
attempts to effect a counter revolution
in that country, and has caused all pre
parations te be discontinued that had
been begun or planned for that purpose,
Frankfort, 08. 11.—When the king ol
Pruflia heard that the king of Francc
had accepted the constitution, he ex
pressed himfelf aloud in the following
:erms : " I now fee the peace of Europe
placed upon a solid foundation." It is
:ertain, that most of the German poten
ates are of the fame sentiments with the
ting of Pruflia, and do not hesitate to
icknowledge their friendly intentions
owards the French nation, since Louis
the XVlth, inconteftibly had a right to
accept whatever conditions the French
people chose to offer him.
LONDON. Nov. 15.
As a proof of the growing liberality
of the prfel'ent period, we are happy to
mention, that the illiberal custom ol
carrying the Pope in effigy about oui
fti,cets on the sth of November (pow
der-plot) is beginning to be difcohraged.
The Lord-Mayor, on the late occasion.
issued orders to the city marshals, and
their subordinate officers, to apprehend
all idle and disorderly persons, who
shall, on the sth of November, go about
the streets collecting money for bonfires,
or who shall throw kjuibs, or other fire
works, or be guilty of the like danger
ous practices.
Lesriflature of the United States.
House of Representatives,
Thursday, Jan. 26-
.In committee of the whole, on the bill, provi
ding for the defcnce of the frontiers; —Mr. Muh
lenberg in the chair.—
Question under consideration.—
A motion to strike out the second fe<slion oi
tie bill, which contemplates the raising of three
Additional regiments of infantry, and a squadron
of light dragoons, amounting in all to three thou
sand and forty mtn, exchifive of commissioned of
frcers, in addition to the present establishment
which is, by the firft fe£ion ordered to be com
pleted.
In favor of the motion, and againfl the prbpo
fed augmentation of the military efcabliihment
it was urged.
That the Indian war, in which the United States
are at present involved, was, in its origin, as un
justly undertaken, as it has since beep unwisely anc
11 nfuccefsfully conduced ; —that depredations hac
been committed by the whites, as well as by the
Indians- and the whites were mod probably the
RggrelTors, as they frequently made encroach
fnents on the Indian lands; whereas the Indian;
Ihewed no inclination to obtain poffeflion of oui
territory, or even to make temporary invasions
until urged to it by a sense of their wrongs *. a
proof of this unencroaching disposition on theii
part plainly appeared in their condu&, after the
vi&ory they lately obtained over our troops ; for
when slushed with success, they might have fwepl
the country before them, and penetrated as far as
Pittsburgh, they contented themselves with the
advantage they had gained over their invaders, anc
did not attempt to invade our territories in return
ilthough there was no where at hand a fuffi
cicnt force to check their career.
The mode of treating the Indians in general
was reprobated as unwise and impolitic ; the Indi
ans are with difficulty to be reduced bv th<
sword, but may easily be gained by justice an<
i.iodcmtion : and although their cruelties are a!
ledged as reasons for a different condudt, and th<
fufferingsof the white people pathetically deplor
ed, thel'e narratives, (it was said) are at best bu'
ex parte evidence ; —we hear nothing of the Of
ferings of the Indians : —but if ornplanter'i
speech were read, it would set the matter in j
very different point of view,and furnifh a complete
answer to all the charges of their accusers.
Peace (it was said) may be obtained from the
Indian tribes, at a much less expence, than would
bf. neceflary for the support of the war :---to per
feveie in hostilities, would be wafting the public
money to a very bad purpose indeed s — -for, sup
posing our arms crowned with vi&orv, what are
the advantages we may expect to reap from oui
success ?—v\e can unlv gain poflefiion of theii
land — a poflefiion, that must long continue
unproductive of" the smallest benefit, as we alrea
dy poflefs land fufficient,---more, in fatf, thai
we will be able to cultivate for a whole cen
tury to come.
Inllead of being ambitious to extend our boun
daries, it would answer a much better nationa
uurpofcjr rather to check the roving disposition o:
the frontier settlers, and prevent them from toe
fudaenJy extending themselves to the western wa
ters : if kept closer together, and more nearlj
connected with the old fectlements, they woulc
oe more ufeful to the community at large, anc
*ould not so frequently involve us in unnecefiars
and expensive wars with the Indians : if per
mitted to rove at pleasure, they will keep the na
tion embroiled in perpetual warfare, as long a:
the Indians have a single acre of ground to red
upon.
if the citizens of the United States were recall
ed within their proper bounoaries, there thej
might, for years to come, cultivate the foil ir
peace, neither invaded nor invading. As the
country progreflts in population, and our limits are
found too narrow, it will then be soon enough tc
contemplate a gradual extension of our frontier :
but in the mean time, it is an idle profufion ol
blood and tieafure, to carry war beyond our pre
lent line of forts : it is only exposing our arms te
Jifgrace, betraying our own weakness, and les
sening the public confidence in the general go
vernment, to lend forth armies to be butcherec
in the forefts, whilst we fuffer the Britifli to keej.
poflefiioncf posts within our territory.
As long as Britain is fuffered to retain thoft
posts, we can never hope to succeed against th<
Indians j nor ought we to trace our late misfor
tune to any other source than her still holding
rhem in her poflefiion : were they in our hands,
the Indians could not carry on their operation:
against us with the fame degree of vigour as the\
now do: for it is from those forts that they obtair
the\i supplies of arms and ammunition, with
which they can be, at all times, plentifully fur
lilflied, as long as things continue on their prefeni
Footing.
Until those posts are in our it will b<
train to fend our armies into the wilderness: «
body of five thousand men, Cent out against the
Indians, under the present circumstances would
be as effectually defeated, as the /mailer ones
have already been : in those wilds, our troops
have no friend at hand, to furnifh them with
lupplies, or t" give them intelligence of the ap
proach and operations of the enemy ; whereas
the Indians, receiving both aid and information
from tl.cir friendly neighbors, can pre-concert
their plans, and chufe, according to their own
convenience, the place and the hour of attack,
as they did before.
It was here observed by an honorable gentleman
on the other fide of the question, that we ought
undoubtedly to get poflellion of those ports ; an<)
that we might have lotig fines obtained them, if
we had laid a feafonablc embargo on all the Bi itifh
(hipping in ourports; though he doubted, whether
it would at present be worth while to take such a
step, as the Engli/h have loft so great a portion of
our carrying trarfe, in consequence of the addi
tional tonnage laid on their veflels.'
In favour of the motion, it was further urged,
that supposing even the war to have been original
ly undertaken withjuftice on our fide, —supposing
also, that the national honor and interest called
for a continuance of hostilities : yet, as it was by
no means either necessary or prudent to invade the
Indian territory,—as this had been attempted in
two fuccellive campaigns, and the event had, in
both instances, been such, as to afford no very
flattering profpeO from a third expedition of the
fame kind, it was thought much more advifeable
to content ourselves with defending the frontier ;
and this might be done, without making so great
an augmentation in the military eltablilhmer. t.
'1 he only ule of regular troops on the frontier,
is to garrison the forts, atld to have a (landing
force in the neighbourhood, to form a fiation, to
which the militia may reforc either for proteflion
or lupplies: but as to active service, the frontier
militia and rangers were pronounced to be by far
preferable to the regular troops, as being more ex
pert woodsmen, and better habituated to the Indi
an mode of fighting. To defend the forts, a small
number of regulars would be fufficient; the pre
sent eftablifliment of two regiments would, ifcom
pleated, be amply adequate to the purpofc ; and
when a (lifted by such forces as might at all times
be colleded on the frontier, would be able to re
pel every inroad of the enemy.
Experience has proved, that the fudien 4r,d de
sultory attacks of the frontier militia and rangers
aie ever attended with better fuccel's, than the
methodical operations of a regular force ; the
former are Letter calculated for expedition and sur
prise, making umexpefted sallies, scouring the
country in small bodies, harrifling the Indians,
and intercepting their draggling parties: bv whom
their motions are unobserved ; whereas, "when s
body of regulars take the field, encumbered with"
baggage and heavy artillery, the unavoidable
(lownels of theii movements affords the enemy an
opportunity of watching all their operations, col
lecting their whole force, and (kulking in the
woods around them, till they can seize the favor
able moment to ftiike a sudden blow, which they
generally do with success, but which they could
never attempt if exposed -every hour to the unfore
feen attacks ofour weodfmen, who would keep
their attention ccnftantly engaged in all quarters,
and thus prevent them from uniting in large bo
dies.
It was further observed by some gentlemen, who
even admitted the propriety of invading the In
dian territory, that to effed this with luccefs, it
was by no means necefTary to make such an en
creafe in the military eftablifliment, as that con
templated in the bill : the mifcarriageof the for
mer expeditions could not(they said) be alledged as
a lufficient reason : for it is well known, that the
former establishment was far from being complete:
the regulars, intended for the service of the last
campaign, were to have been about two thousand
two hundred ; the President was besides empower
ed toraife two thousand five hundred levies in ad
dition to the regulars; and these would together
have conftituteu an army of about four thousand
seven hundred men : had such a body been em
ployed, we might reasonably have expected much
better luccefs the Indians, whose numbers
were so far inferior, the whole force of the Wabalh
tribes not amounting to above eleven or twelve
hundred warriors, who never could keep the field
for any length of time, but must be soon obliged
to disperse, without venturing an attack upon an
army of such superior strength.
Instead of this, our army confided of only about
twelve hundred men ; and of these not above four
or five hundred were regular troops : besides, had
even this force been fufficient if employed in sea
son, the delays, that had taken place in the execu
tion of the plan, would alone have been fufficient
to defeat the intended purpose. During the win
ter, the law was parted for railing the additional
troops to carry on the war with greater vigor ; the
whole summer was spent in the business, and the
few men that we did enlist, were not raised until
late in the fall : collected at length at the head of
the Ohio, they fruitlefsly loitered away their time,
till they finally erefled a monument to our eternal
disgrace and infamy.
Whatever troops are to be employed, ought to
be raised with diligence and dispatch, if we wilh
to aveid a similar miscarriage in our next attempt}
the army ought not to enter the Indian country,
till their whole force is complete :—difficulties
however and delay, equal to those of last year,
may be again expefled in inlifting the men : and
we will have the officers in pay a confiderakle time,
without any soldiers : perhaps the former pay of
the troops was too low ; and proper effeflive men
were unwilling to accept of it; if so, let it be rais
ed j let the men be well cloathed and fed, and they
will more readily enjage in the service : probably
also the term of three years was an objeflion with
many, who would otherwise have joined our stan
dard : if enlisted only for fix months, the ranks
will be sooner filled ; and this ought to have con
siderable weight with those who advocate the aug
mentation of the military eftablifliment; as they
c annot but know, that if we set about cnlifling the
number of men contemplated in the bill, and in
the manner theie prescribed, they cannot be raised
time enough to render anj feivice in the nc*t cam
paign.The information, eottaireo in the report on the
table, was not, it was said, to be implicitly relied
on: that report was made by a man, wherhadnot
personally vilited the fron iers : others, who had
been on the Spot, were of opinion, that if 200 c
levies had been raised lalt year, they would have
been Sufficient not only for the defence of the
frontier, but even for any often five operations,
that might have been thought neceSSary : such
troops, collected in the vicinity, are more compe
tent to the undertaking, tbthe troops now in
contemplation : no comprint has been ot
their condudt j whenever they v.*er? tried they be
haved as well as the iegulars, and in the action
under Geneial St. Clair, they gave equal pcoofb of
their valor.
It was farther urged, the frontier militia
are not only equal, but infinitely Superior to any
regular troops whatever, for the defence or the
borders ; and that they are in fad, the only force
that can be effectually employed in expeditions
agairtft the hoitile Indians, whole mode of fighting
is familiar to them,and does not strike hern wich
that degre of terror, with which it inspires thofc
men who enlist on the regular ertablilhment: these
latter, being collected in the heart of populous ci
ties, where the face of an Indian is Seldom (een,
hardly know, whether the Indian anJ his horse are
riot the ijme animal ; and when they approach
the enemy, at the very firft fiiout, even before he
is in view, they are terrified at the idea of lavagt
barbarity, which they have ever been taught to re
flect on with horror ; and being incapable of re
finance, they commit their Safety co flight. Tr
prove the Superiority of' the militia, gentlemci:
need only contralt the difparch 3nd Succels of th«
expedition conducted by general Scott, with the
delavs, diSgrace ond mortification which attendee
rhat under general St. C.air, and consider the dif
ference of the expence on thofr two occasions.
The rxoe nfe of Such an army as the bill con
templates, is an object well worthy of Serious con
figuration, efp cially at the preSent moment, wher
there is Scarcely a dollar in the treasury. Gentle
men would alSodo well to advert to the progreSs 01
this business, and consider where they were likeh
to (top, if they went on at the preSent rate i—ai
firli, only a finale regiment had been raiSed, am
the expenSe was atrtiut 100, coo dollars j a feconc
was afterwards added, which Swelled the expenft
to about 300,000 ; and now a standing force
of 516S men is contemplated, at an annua
expense of above a million and a quarter. Car
this bejuftified in the preSent Itate of our finances,
when it is well known that the Secretary of tht
treasury, having been requeft-d by the members
from a particular Ita'e, build alight-houSe on .
certain paitof theircoaM:, declined the undertak
ing, & alledged the want of Sunds, as the reaion r
Our reSources, however, might be made to an
swer for the Support of such a force as thar.
which was intended for the Service of the preced
ing year; and there would be little complaint 01
dhTatigfa&ion among the people : very few mur
murings were heard againfl the former eftablilh
ment : but Such a one as is now contemplated
will be thought extravagant, will breed dilconten 1
among the citizens of the United States, anc
perhaps afford our neighbors in Canada an oppor
tunity to take advaniage of our divided Situation,
arid iivvo vt <js in a war more dangerous than the
former which Separated 119 from Great-Britain.
Apprehensions (it was Said) are entertained, thai
the object contemplated in railing those additiona
troops, is not i;> much to punilh and coerce th<
Indians, as to have a regular standing force equa
to what the B. itilh have on this continent. This
is Said to amount to about Six thouland men, in
cluding those in Canada : but it is to be remarked,
that the Britilh nation has no* above one thouSanc
men within the limits of the United States } anc
yet with this handful of troops, they not only keej
the Indians in awe, but even, in opposition to thi
wiihes of the United States, retain poffefiion o:
those posts, which Should have been ceded to u
purSuant to the terms of the treaty '•—why ther
is it necessary, for the purpt/fe of establishing port:
and garriloning them,'to enereaSe the standing torn
to So large a number, as that contemplated in tin
clause under consideration ? — During our late ar
ouous ftruggle'for liberty, when we had to copi
with the molt powerful nation under heaven, th<
commander in chief had never at any one timi
above ten thousand men, under his own immedi
ate command ; and if with So Small a force, wt
were able to effect So glorious a revolution, then
can be no neceflity of goingluch lengths at preSent
for the lake of e;labli.lhiag a military character ; i
is strange policy indeed, to raise five or fix thouSanc
meji,to oppose a handful of Indian banditti, whoft
Btmoft amount, does not, from the documents or
the tabic, appear to exceed twelve hundred.
We are preparing to Squander away money b]
millions : and no one, except thoSe who are in the
secrets of the cabinet, knows for what reaSon the
war has been thus carried on for three years :—
but what funds are to defray the encreaSed expenS<
of maintaining such a force as is now contemplatedi
The exciSe is both unpopular and unproductive : —
the import duties have been raiSed as high as is con
fident with prudence :—to enereaSe them would
toe but to open a door for Smuggling, and thus di
minish their produftivenefs : and if thoSe Sources
of revenue fail, —if our finances be thus exhauftec
in unnecessary wars, —we will be unable to Satisfy
the public creditors, unless retourfe be had to new
taxes, the conSequences of which may, with jufl
reaSon, be deplored s—whereas,5 —whereas, if we but keep out
expenSes within bounds, if ws nurse our finances,
we will be refpedtable among the nations of the
earth, nor will any nation dare to inSult us, or be
able to do it with impunity.
During the courSe of these observations, an ho
norable gentleman asked, whether this was a day
set apart for rhetorical flourifhes, as the galleries
were open, and he Saw the Ihort-hajid writers Ra
tioned at,their different polls ?
At an early stage of the debate, an honorable
gentleman had Suggellcd, that, instead of puffing a
law for raising at all events the additionalregiments,
which, for his part, he did not think neceilary, the
houSe (if they finally determined the pcefent eftab-
Jifliment to be inefficient) would perhaps da bet
ter to appropriate a certain Sum of money, to ena
ble the executive to call in such additional aid, as
circumlianccs may require.
To this it was objefljd, that it Is the duty of
the representatives of the people in all appropria
tions of the public money, to make them for cer
tain fpecific purposes ; —to act otherwise on the
present w.uld be letting a precedent, that
might, in its consequences, prove hi*!) l injuriou:.- :
for, although, the greated confidence may fafel'y
be reposed in the virtue and integrity of him v.-ho
tow fills the prefidental chair, it is impoliible to
furefee what use may hereafter be m;'de oftheprc
tcdent by his fuccefl'ors, or how far it may be car
ried.
A gain (I the motion for striking out, and in fa
vour of the prop -l id augmentation of the military
:itablifhment, it was urged,
That, as to the ju it ice of the war carried on a
jainft the Indian tribes, that was a question
which could not admit of a doubt in the mind of
any mau, who would allow, that felf preservation
and indifpenlable neceflity are fufiic'ent causes to
juftify a nation in taking up arms : —if the present
war be not in every refpedt judicable, then there
never was, nor ever will be ajuft war :—it was
originally undertaken, and since carried on, not
tor the lake of conqucft, but to defend our fellow
citizens, our friends, our dearest connexions, who
are daily exposed, in the frontier settlements, to
all the rage of lavage barbarity, to wnich they,
with their wives and children, mult loon fall vic
tim*, unlets we speedily lly to their alhltance : —
and although theie are some people, who utterly
deny the jultice of any war whatever, this dodtrine,
however tine in theory, will hardly ever obtain in
practice : for, is it to be imagined, that any set of
men are of such pafiive diipofition, as calmly to
iook on, whilst their friends and relations are but
chered be/ore their eyes, and to refufe giving them
every aififtance in their power ?
The murders and depredations, which have, for
years pall, been repeatedly committed by ihe la
vages, loudly call tor redress :—from various do
cuments of unqueltionable authority, now in the
hands of the lecretary at war, ligncn r.nc: afteftel
oy the executive and legiflatu/e of Kentucky, by
the diftritt judge, and the captains of tbe militia,
it appears, that, from the year 1753 to 1700,' here
have been, of inhabitants ot that dirtrid, or
of emigrants on their way thither, no lels than fif
teen hundred persons either roaffacrcd bv the sa
vages, or dragged into captivity : two thoufami
horses taken away ; and other proper"; plundered
or deftroved, to the amount of filty thousand dol
lars :—and there is good reason to suppose, that,
on the other frontiers of Virginia and Pennfvlva
nia, the number of persons murdered or taken
prisoners, during the above-mentioned period,
would furnith a lilt of one thousand or fifteen hun
dred more.
The white people, it is trw, have sometimes
:ommitteci depredations on the Indians: but the
inltances have been rare [the honorable gentleman
who spoke, did not recoliedt above one or two] of
their making unjust attacks upon the savages j
nor did they on those occasions commence humili
ties against them, till exasperated by the strongest
provocations, that could pollibly stimulate the hu
man heart : this circurpltance may be justly al
lowed as l'ome palliation of the offence :—even in
hefe inltances, however, a few individuals only
•vere concerned j and when the affair came to the
knowledge of the Hate, ample reparation was
made to the injured p«uty :—
ment too had lhewn an equal disposition to dojul -
rfee to the Indian tribe? j witness the affair of the
Cherokecs: for as soon as Congress had heard
their complaints of an encroachment made on
hem by some of the people from the frontier of
North Carolina, immediate orders were llfucd for
obliging the intruders to evacuate the Indian ter
ritory.
But.notwithstanding the diipofition th#t prevail
as well in the legifiatures of those Itates whole
frontiers are molt ex ot'ed, as in the genera! go
vernment, to cultivate peace and amity with tj
neighbouring Indians, that desirable object is be
come utterly unattainable in the present pollute <■.
affairs :—The frontier Indians have killed a num
ber of whites ; the whites, in their turn, hr ?
made retaliation : both parties are in the highe*'.
degree exalperated ag«iinft each other, and hkeV
to continue so, in spite of every endeavor that cz...
be made to effect a reconciliation : with minds
thus irritated, it is va4n to hope for peace,aslo e
as they continue in each other's neightfourhoojp-j
it is therefore neceflary to form a strong barrier, to
keep them asunder, unlets indeed the advocates for
a cessation of hostilities would oblige the frontier
settlers to abandon their lands ;—but by wt it
new-invented rule of right, should the inhabitanrs
of Kentucky, and the other frontier fettlemen:s,
be laid under a greater obligation, than any oti'. r
citizens of the U. States, to relinquilh a prope) il
legally acquired by fair puvchafe ?•—were it e*. n
propoled to pacify the savages, by purchaling 'he
lands anew, such a measure would anlwer no ot'.cr
puxpofe, than that ot procuring a temporary pea- e,
which would soon again be interrupted by a war,
that would reproduce the necelfity of again
recourse to the lame expedient :—we would h .-e
to purchase the lands again and again without rr, >
and by thus fqandering the public money year af
ter year, we would only swell the national debr to
an amount, that we cannot poflibly forefee :—
better at once to make a vigorous effort, to ai\ in a
manner becoming the national dignity, and to
maintain oor ground by war, since we cannot ob
tain a durable or an honorable peace.
Attempts have at various times been madr to
-ffett treaties of peace with the Indian tribes, 1 - . h
whom we arc now at war : —and although rheie
efforts have conltantlv proved ineffectual, the> yet
ihew, that neither the United States nor the state
f Virginia were backward on their part, to adopt
conciliatory me a fares, and to do away that ani
mofty which had commenced on the part cf the
favages,a tan early period of the late war with Bri
tain, and has continued to break out at intervals
ever since. In the years 1783, 84, 5, 87, £8,
and 90, offers of peace were made to them : 011
che last mentioned occasion, when a treai-' was
proposed at the Miami Village, the Indians at firit
refufed to treat : they next required thirty to
deliberate : and in the interim, the inhabitants ot
Kentucky were expressly prohibited by the Pieli
dent of the United States, to carry on any urTon
five operations against them : yer, notwithftand
;ng this forbearance on the part of the v bites,
to less than one hufaft&d and twenty persons vvrrf
killed or captured by the savages, and several pri
fofiert loatled alive, during that short period,—a'
the expiration of which, the Indians refuled to give
-;ny answer at ail.
On another occasion, the Indian? not contem
with rejedling our offers of peace, proceeded even
lo far as to insult us, by telling us, we have land',
'.vithin the British pills, and slicing us, why we did
not go and take poffeflion ot t'lem ? Will it be (aid,
rhat we are unable to do it ?—is this a langt.:3ge,
lo be used within the United States ?— no ! we art
able, abundantly, able to do it, whenever we please :
and if we would but retrench ourexpenles in forrr
inltance:-, which might well admit of a reduction.
>ur ability would frill encreafe : our finances are noi
:juite so inefficient asfome gentlemen seem to ima
gine, nor so easily deranged : we are still able to provf
that the boasted efficiency of the general govern
ment isfomething more than a mere empty name :
can yet raise both men and money fufneient tc
defend the nation from either injury or insult.
It is, at the present period, too late to enquire,
whether the war was originally undertaken on the
principles of juflice, or not : —we are now actu
ally involved in it, and cannot recede, withoui
exposing numbers of innocent persons to be butch
ered by the enemy t for, though ice should de
termine to discontinue the war, can it be laid .that
the savages will aifo agree to a cessation of host;
lities It is well known that they are avcrfe tc
peace ; and even the waimeft advocate of pacific
measures must therefore allow that the war is a
war of necefiity, and must be supported : we
cannot, without impeachment both to our juflice
and our humanity, abandon our fellow citizens
on the frontier to the rage of their lavage enemies
— and although the excise may be fomewhar u;i
popular, although money may still be wanted,
what is the excise, what is monty, when put in
competition with the lives of our friends and bre
ihren '
A fufficient force must be raised for their de
fence •. and the only question now to be consider
ed, is, what that force ftiall be : experience has
proved, that the force employed in the last cam
paign, was inadequate : it is true, the establish
ment was not complete : but who will venture to
$fltrt, that, even if it had been complete, it would
feave been fufficient for the intended purpose ?—
are gentlemen, who assert this, so well acquaint
ed with the circumstances of the enemy, as to be
j|ble to give an accurate statement of the amount
It their forces on the frontier ? tnere are higher
Opinions in favor of an augmentation of the army,
than can b r . adduced against it, opinions given by
men ofjudgment and experience, who have them
feives been on the Ipot, and are well acquainted
with the situation of affairs in that quarter • —
theJe gentlemen, who must be allowed to be com
petent judges, are decidedly of opinion, that the
present establishment, though completed to the
last man, will not furniih a<a adequate force tc
carry on the War with effedt j and that it will be a
hopejels attempt, to open another campaign,
with less than about five thousand regular troops,
the number contemplated in the bill.
Nor ought that number to be deemed extrava
gant, under an idea, that we have only a con
temptible handful of banditti to contend with :
their numbers were, Jaft year, frcm authentic do
■ mean, ai about laoo warriors, from
3 different tribes :« Such was the opposition
tnen contemplated : But it is impcftible to
alcertain what acceflion of strength they have
since received, or even what force they had en
gaged in the late unfortunate adVion j as the very
men, who were in the engagement, do not pre
tend to form any just or accurate ettimate of the
number of their alfailants t but there is good rea
son to suppose, that they had previously entered
into an ailbciation with various tribes, that have
not as yet come within our knowledge : the
oows and arrows, used rgainft our troop*., on thai
occaiion, afford a convinjcing proof, thai they
had foes to encounter from diftart nations, ai
et unacquainted with the use of fire ai ms : nor
aocs the account of the bows < nd arrows depend,
its authenticity, onnewfyaper evidence alone :
gentlemen of unquestionable ver;<ciiy, who weft
personally engaged in the action, have declared,
that they had themlelves noticed the arrows fly
ing.
When we consider the warlike disposition c!
the Indians in general, a::d the a'acrity, with
which the vidtors are ever sure to he joined, bv
numerous allies, —we havc'evcry reason to expect
a much more formidable opposition in thr next
campaign : ic is well known that the lavages
place all their glory in ceeds of war ; and thai
among them, a young man cannot make his ap
pearance in company, rill he has hi
valour by lome martial atchieven ent j vrnen, t.
'his powerful incentive, anewftimulus is addee,
by the trophies obtained in the I ..re ac'uon. it i;
prefumeabie rhat numbers will crowd to thfi?
itamiarri j and it strongly behoves us to prepare
in time tor a much vigorous effort, than
any we have as yet made against -hem.
The objections drawn from »h* increased cv
penfe, must entirely vaniiii from before theejes
as any man, who looks forward to the consequen
ces of one more unluccefsful campaign : Such
a difalter would eventually involve the nation in
much greater expense, than that which is now
made the ground of oupofition : better therefore
at once to make a vigorous and effcdlual exertion
to bring the matter to a final issue, than to con
tinue gradually draining the treafurv, by dragging
on the war, and rem vwng hoftiii :es from year tc
year.
Jf wp fift fn tiring frft to a f>eedv a"d s
happy conclusion, and to feeure a permanent
peace to the inhabitant?, on the frontiers, wf
must employ fucTi troops, and adnpt such mea
iure?, a< appear beftralculand to en 1 tire success :
li we delay our determination, until the force ol
the enemy be afcertg)ned, we can make no pro
fhon all : for the n - "re and «">!
the cafe preclude us from the \ery pol?ibili r y o!
a knowledge of their ftrcngth ?.r,d num
bers : but are we, mean while, to rem?.in inac
tive ar.d irrelolute, and make no effort to repe
:heir intended attacks ? No! Whatever theii
numbers may be, prudence calls aloud for provi-
r on of some kind j and if experience to ha- t
any weight with u?, the example of the French
and of'the Britifli, points out the true mode of ie
curing our frontier, and rendering it invulnera
ble to an Indian foe : Jet us occupy polts in the
vicinity of the enemy j let them be properly gar
rifuned, and well provided j and the bufinels is
done.
Th-'fe will afford an opportunity of trading
with the friendly tribes, and will prevent all in
tercourle between the whites and the Indians,
txcept under proper regulations : should holliJi
ties be meditated by any tribes who are not in
amity with us, early intelligence of rheir move
ments can be obtained : their marauding parties
may be either bearen off" on their approach, or in
tercepted on their return : opportunities may be
taken of separately attacking the hostile tribes :
their old men, their squaws, their children, will
be exposed a great part of the year, whjllt the
others are out hunting : in short, if' fear, hope,
interest, can be fuppoled to have any influence on
the Indians, this mode of defence must be allow
ed to he preferable to any other, as giving the
fulleft scope to the operation of all theie motives.
A different mode has been long purlued in Vir
ginia, and adopted by the inhabitants of Ken
tucky ; but its success has not been such, a* to
offer any inducement to the general government
to follow the fame plan. Rangers have there
been employed for a number of years, to scour
the frontiers j and those rangers, too, were ex
pert woodsmen, perfectly innured to the Indian
mod e 0 f warfare j yet, notwithstanding their ut
most vigilance, the lavages still founo means to
commit all the murders and depreciations already
enumerated : 'tis true, however, that a frontier
militia man, trained up in the woods, may be,
in many refpe&s, preferable to a regular l.ilo
who has not the fame knowledge of the country,
and of the mode of fighting : but with equal ex
perience (and proper men, pofieffed of that expe
rience, may be enliffed on the eftablilhment) re
gular troops will be found infinitely Superior t»
any militia upon earth.
Everyman, who has ever seen militia in the
field, cannot but know, that a very trifling dis
aster, or a flight caule of discontent, is Sufficient
to make them disband, and forget ail Subordina
tion, so far even as to neglect the means of 1-ii
defence j—whereas regular troops, under proper
discipline, and adfing with greater ffeadineSs and
concert, are much more to oe depended on, el
pecially when the objett of attack is diliant, and
great fatigue is to be undergone. The militia,
in whatever mode they mav be called out, will
hardly furnifh men of the proper description j—
if large pay be offered, the temptation will equal
ly prevail upon those who are unfit for the service,
as it will upon good effediive men :—befides, some
of the flatt-s have no militia laws, and even in
those states which have such laws they are gone
into difule : no dependence can therefore be pla
ced on militia, under any laws now exilting —
there is, indeed, a general militia law now before
the house : but if it ever pafles, it certainly can
not be parted in due season to answer the purpose
t>f providing for the immediate defence of the
frontier : regular troops mult be raised, or no
thing effectual can be done : and if, to avo-idthe
sxpence, we refufe the only aid that can pre.'? of
hiy real service, we render ourselves relpo#nbie
For the coniequences of this parsimonious
ivhich ma) be attended with the ruin and deltruc
:ion of our fellow citizens in the western couhtry*
The Cornplanter's speech was agiin mentioned,
and called for j but, as it had been confidentially
;ommunicated by the President, an objection
Is made to having it read, without clearing the
galleries : whereupon,
An honorable member arose, and mentioned
[lis having read it in one of the public newlpa-
Ders of the ffate of New-Jersey.
To this it was snfwered, that if any gentleman
had the newspaper to produce, the speech might
be publicly read from that : —otherwife, although
it might be very proper that the speech itfelf were
jublicly read, yet, as it had been confidentially
received from the executive, there would be i
manifeft trespass on propriety and decorum, in
Having it read with open galleries : it was there
tore wished, that the galleries might be cleared.
The parliamentary etiquette requiring that this
dioulo be done by the house, and not by a com
mittee, the committee rose for the purpose $ and,
Mr. Speaker having resumed the chair, the
motion tor clearing the galleries was renewed.
An objection was here {farted, by an honora
ble gentleman in favor of the augme taoon, who
.aid, that, as some gentlemen had Spoken on the
p ipular fioe of the whilif the galleries
rid been open, it was unfair to preclude those of
»p t ofite Sentiments fro** an opportunity of uniti
ng their arguments in ti c fame juib;:c m*apcr,
ind proving to the people the jultice, ana t.ccehi
v of the war.
The morion, howver, was persisted in, and the
zalleries were cleared.
H OWEL L's
Small MAP of Pennsylvania,
MAY be had of Mr. Bai ley, and Mr,
Crvkshank, Printers,in Markct-iTreet;
irof the author in N. Fifth-ftreet. No.
38, who has the said maps pafled on can
vas, cut, folded and caied for pocket
:arriage.
Philadelphia, Jan. 30, 1792-
ANTED immediately, a JOUR
NEYMAN BOOK-BINDER,
'0 go to Lancafler. Enquire cf I 1 rancis
Bailey, printer, No. 116, High-Street.
—— —-T- ' IT
PRINTED BV
CHILDS AND S \V A I N ~
T T»*riß OFFICE, NO. 239, HIOH- S'! ? 1
i; fAR EIXTH-STRIET,
PHIIABEiPKZA.