Vol. I.
AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft Sellion, begun and held ar the city of
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania
Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thousand {even hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT tflabiijhing a Mint, and regula
ting the Coins of the United States.
BE it ena&e.d by the Senate and Houje
of Rcprefcntaiives of the UniUd States,
cf America, in Congress assembled, and it is
hereby enabled and declared, I hat a mint
for the purpose of a national coinage,
be, and the fame is cftablifhed ; to be si
tuate and carried on at the feat of the
government of the United States, ior
the time being : And that for the well
conducing of the business of the said
mint, there shall be the following offi
cers and persons, namely—a director,
an a (layer, a chief coiner, an engraver,
atrealurer.
And be it further enabled, That the di
rector of the mint shall employ as many
clerks, workmen and servants as he (hall
from time to time find neceilary, fubjeft
to the approbation of the President of
the United States.
And be it further enaSed, That the ref
peftive functions and duties of the offi
cers abovenientioned shall be as follow.
The director of the mint ffiall have the
chief management of the business there
of, and shall superintend all other offi
cers and persons who fhail be employed
-therein. * The afl'ayer shall receive and
give receipts for all metals which may
lawfully be brought to the mint to be
coined ; shall a flay all such of them as
may requive it, and fliall deliver them
to the chief coiner to be coined. The
chief coiner shall cause to be coined all
metals which shall be received by him
for that purpose, according to such re
gulations as shall be prescribed by this
or anv future law. The engraver
fliall fink and prepare the neceflary dies
for such coinage, with the proper devi
ces and inferiptions, but it shall be law
ful for the functions and duties of chief
coincr and engraver to be performed by
one person. The treasurer shall re
ceive from the chief coiner all the coins
which shall have been struck. and fliall
pay or deliver them to the persons ref
peftively to whom the fame ought to
be paid or delivered : He ihull more
over receive and fately keep ail monies
which (hall be for the use, maintenance
and support of the mint and fliall dis
burse the fame upon warrants iigned by
the director.
And be itfurthercnaßed, That every of
ficer and clerk of the laid mint fliall
before he enters upon the execution of
his office, take an oath or affirmation
before some judge of the United States
faithfully and diligently to perform the
duties thereof.
And be it further enabled. That the said
afiayer, chics coincr and treasurer,
previously to entering upon the execu
tion of their refpeftive offices fliall
each become bound to the United States
America, with one or more sureties
.ty the fatisfaftion of the Secretary of the
Treasury, in the sum of ten thousand
dollars, with condition for the faithful
and diligent performance of the duties
of his office.
And be it further enabled, That there
shall be allowed and paid as cgmpenfa
tions for their refpeftive services—To
the said director, a yearly salary of two
thousand dollars, to the said afiayer, a
yearly salary of one thousand five hun
dred dollars, to the said chief coiner, a
yearly salary of one thousand five hun
dred dollars, to the said engraver, a
yearly salary of one thousand two hun
dred dollars, to the said treasurer, a
yearly salary of one thousand two hun
dred dollars, to each cleik who may be
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhed Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum
THURSDAY, April 12, 1792.
employed, a yearly salary not excecd ngl
five hundred dollars, and to the several
subordinate workmen and servants such
wages and allowances as are customary
and reasonable, according to their ref
peftive stations and occupations.
Avdie itfurther crafted, That the ac
counts of the officers and persons cm
ployed in and about the said mint and
for services performed in relation there
to and all other accounts ccnccrmng
the business and adminiflration thereof
shall be adjufled and fettled in the trea
sury department of the United States
and a quarter yearly account of the re
ceipts and disbursements of the said
mint shall be rendered at the fa:d
treasury for settlement according 10
such forms and. regulations as ill alt
have been prefcribcd by that depart
ment ; and that once in each year a
report of the tranfaftions of the said
mint, accompanied by an abftraft of the
fettlcments which shall have been
from time to time made, duly certified
by the Comptroller of the Treasury,
shall be laid before Congiel's ior their
information.
And be it further enaEled, That in addi
tion to the authority V efted in the Pre
sident of the United States by a resolu
tion of the last feflion, touching the
engaging of artists and the procuring
of apparatus for the said mint, the Pre
sident be authorized and he is here
by authoiifed to cause to be provided
and put in proper condition such
buildings, and in such manner as shall
appear to him requisite for the purpose
of carrying on the business of the laid
mint : and that as well the expenses
which shall have been incurred pursuant
to the said rcfolution as those which
may be incurred in providing and pre
paring the said buildings, and all other
expenses which may hereafter accrue
for the maintenance and support of the
said mint, and in carrying on the busi
ness thereof, over and above the films
which may he received by reason of
the rate per ccntum for coinage herein
after mentioned, {hall be defrayed from
the Treasury of the United States, out
of any monies which from time to time
shall be therein, not othet wife appro
priated.
And be it further enatfed, That there:
shall be from time to time struck and|
coined at the said mint, coins of gold,;
iilverand copper, of thefollowing deno-'
mirations, values and delcriptions viz.:
EAGLES —each to be of the value of|
ten dollars or units, and to contain two;
hundred andforty-fevengrains and four!
eighths of a grain of pure, or two hun
dred and seventy grains of flandard;
gold. HALF EAGLES—each, to be!
of the value of five dollars, and to con
tain one hundred and twenty three!
grains and fix eighths of a grain of
pure, or one hundred and thirty five
grains of flandard gold. QUARFER
EAGLES —each to be of the value of
two dollars and a half dollar, and to
contain sixty one grains and seven
eighths of a grain of pure, or sixty se
ven grains and four eighths of a grain
of ftandaid gold. DOLLARS or U-
NlTS—each to be of the value of a
Spanish milled dollar as the fame is
now current, and to contain three hun
dred and seventy one grains and four
iixteenth parts of a grain of pure, or
four hundred and lixteen grains oi
flandard silver. HALF DOLLARS—
each to be of half the value of the dol
lar or unit, and to contain one hun
dred and eighty five grains and ten fif
teenth parts of a grain of pure, or two
hundred and eight grains of flandard
silver. QUARTER DOLLARS —
each to be of one fourth the value of
the dollar or unit, and to contain
ninety two grains and thirteen sixteenth
partsof a grain of pure, or one hundred
and four grains of flandard silver.
DlSMES—each to be of the value of
one tenth of a dollar or unit, and to
contain th rty seven grains and two fix
tccnih parts of a grain of pure, or for
lty ope grains and three fifth parts of a
gra nof itandard silver. HALF DlS
MES—each to be of the value of one
twentieth of a dollar, and to contain
eighteen grains and nine sixteenth parts
of a grain of pure, or twenty grains and
four fifth parts of a grain of flarjdard
filvrr. CENTS—each to be of the va
:luc of the one hundredth partof a dollar,
' ofatid to contain eleven penny-weights
m topper. HALF CENTS—each to
be "of the value of half a cent, and to
contain five penny Weights an 3 half a
penny weight of copper.
A''*d be it further enacted, That upon
the said coins refpcftively there Ihall be
the following devices and legends name
ly : Upon one fide of e;ch of the laid
coins there shall be an impretfion em
blematic of Liberty, with an infenption
of the word L.berty, and the year of the
coinage ; and upon the reverfc of each
of the gold and fil-ver coins there shall
be the figure or representation of an ea
gle, with this infeription, " UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA" and upon
the reverfc of each of the copper coins,
therelhall bean infeription which shall
express the denomination of the piece,
namely, cent or half cent, asthecaie may
require.
Aidbe it further tnaEltd, That the pro
portional value of gold to silver in all
coins which shall by law be current as
moriey within the United States, shall
be, as fifteen to one, according to
quantity in weight, of pure gold or pure
lilvcr; that is to fay, every fifteen
pounds weight of pure silver Ihall be of
equal value in all payments, with one
pound weight of pure gold, and lo in
proportion as to any greater or less
quantities of the refpeftive metals.
And be it further enabled, That the
standard for all gold coins of the United
States, shall be eleven parts fine to one
part alloy ; and accordingly that eleven
parts in twelve of the entire weight of
each of the said coins Ihall coniifl of
pure gold, and the remainingone twelfth
part of alloy ; and the said alloy shall
be compofcd of silver and copper, in
iuch proportions not exceeding one
half silver as shall be found convenient ;
to be regulated by the Director of the
mint, for the time being, with the ap
probation of the President of the Unit
ed States, until f 14rther*provifion shall
be made by law. And to the end that
the neceflarv information may be had
in order to the making of such further
provilion, it shall be the duty of the
Dire&or of the mint, at the expiration
of a vear after commencing the operati
ons of the said mint, to report to Con
gress the pratticc thereof during the, said
year, touching the compofitioa of the
alloy of the laid gold coins, the reasons
for such prattice, and the experiments
and observations which shall have been
made concerning the cfFctts of different
proportions of silver and copper in the
said alloy.
And be it further enabled, That the
standard for all silver coins of the Unit
ed States, shall be one thousand four
hundred and eighty-five paits fine to
one hundred and, seventy-nine parts al
lov ; and accordingly that one thousand
four hundred and eighty-five parts in
one thousand fix hundred and iixty
four parts of the entire weight of each
of the laid coins shall consist of pure sil
ver, and the remaining one hundred and
feve.nty-nine parts of alloy ; which al
loy shall be wholly of copper.,
And be it further evaded, That it
shall be lawful for any person or
pcrfons to bring to the said mint gold
and silver bullion, in order to their be
ing coined ; and that the bullion so
brought fhali be there allayed and coin
ed aj; i'peedily as may be alter the rcceipr
thereof, and that free of expense to the
person or perfor.s by whom the fame
shall. have bifen brought. And a> focn
Numb. 48.
as the said bullion shall have been coin
ed, the pcrfon or persons by whom the
fame shall have been delivered, shall
| upon demand receive in lieu thereof
.coins of the fame species of bullion,
which shall have been so delivered
' weight for weight, of the pure gold or
pure silver therein contained : Provided
i ueverthe.ltfs, that it shall be at the mutual
option of the party or parties bringing
ifuch bullion, and of the Dire&orof the
| said mint, to make an immediate ex
change of coins for standard bullion,
I with -a deduction of one half per cen'c
\ from the weight of the pure gold, or
| pure silver contained in the said
las an indemnification to the mint for
\ the time which will necessarily be re
quired for coining the (aid bullion, and
for the advance which shall have been
so made in coins. And it shall be the
duty of the Secretary of the Treasury
to fuinifh the said mint from time to
time whenever the state of the Treasury
will admit thereof, with such funis as
may be necessary for effecting the said
exchanges, to be replaced as tpeedily as
may be out of the coins which shall havd
been made-os the bullion for which the
monies lis fui nifhed shall have been ex*
changed ; atid the said deduction of one
half per cent shall constitute a fund to
wards defraying the expenses of the
said mint.
And be itfurthtr ennfted. That the bul
lion which shall be brought as aforefaid
to the mint to be coined, shall be coinedj
and the equivalent therof in coins ren
dered, if demanded, in the order in
which the said bullion shall have been
brought or delivered, giving priority
according to priority of delivery only,
and without preference to any person
or persons ; and if any preference shall
be given contrary to the direc
tion aforefaid, the officer by whom
such undue preference shall be given
shall in each cafe forfeit and pas
one thousand dollars ; to be recovered
with coils of suit. And to the end that
it may be known if such preference
fb«ll at anytime be given, the allayer or
officer to whom the said bullion thall be
delivered to be coined, shall give to the
person or persons bringing the fame, a
memorandum in writingunderhis hand,
denoting the weight, finenefs and value
thereof, together with the day and or*
dcr of its delivery into the
And be it farther enafled, That all the
gold and silver coins which shall have
been struck at, and issued from the laid
mint, shall be a lawful tender in all pay
ments whatsoever, those of full weight
according to the rqfpective values here
in before declared, and those of less
than full weight at values proportional
to their rofpective weights.
And be it further enatted, That it shall
be the duty of the respective officers of
the said mint, carefully and faithfully
to ule their bed endeavours that all the
gold and silver coins which shall be
struck at the said mint (hall be, as near
ly as may be, conformable to the fcvcral
standards and weights aforelaid, and
that the copper whereof the cents and
half cents aforefaid may be composed,
shall be of good quality.
And the better to secure a clue con
formity of the said gold and lilvcr coir.s
to their refpectivc standards, Be it fur
ther enaded. That from every feparatb
mass of standard gold or silver, which
shall be made into coins at the said
mint, there shall be taken, set apart by
the Treasurer and reserved in his Cifto
dy a certain number of pieces, not lef;
than three, and that once in every year
the pieces so set apart and reserved.
shall be alfaved under the inspection of
the Chief Juflice of the United States,
the Secrctarv and Comptroller of the
Treasury, the Secretary for the Depart
ment of State, and the Attorney Centr
al of the United States, (who are hereby
required to attend for that purpose at
the said mint, on th« Sail Monday iaJuly in each yeat)or undcrthe inspection
of any three of them, in such manner as
they or a majorit yof them (hall direct
and in the presence of the director, ai
fayer and chief coiner of the said mint;
and it"it {hall be found that the gold and
silver so allayed, shall not be interior to
their respective standards herein before
declared more than one part in one hun
dred and forty four parts, the officer 01
officers of the said mint whom it may
concern lhallbe held excuiable ; but if
any greater inferiority (hall appear, it
shall be certified to the President of the
United States, and the said officer or
officers shall be deemed difqualified to
hold their respective offices.
And be it further enabled, r i hat if any
of the gold or silver coins which flial!
be ft ruck or coined at the said mint shall
be debased or made worse, as to the
proportion of fine gold or fine silver
therein contained, or shall be of less
weight or value than the fame ought to
be pursuant to the directions of this
act through thedefault or with the con
nivance of any of the officers or per
sons who shall be employed at the laid
mint, for the purpose of profit or gain,
or otherwise with a fraudulent intent,
and if any of the-faid officers or persons
shall embezzle any of the metals which
ihall at any time be committed to their
charge for the purpose of being coined,
or any of the coins which shall be iu uck
or coined at the said mint, every fucli
officer or perlon who shall commit'any
or either of the said offences, shall be
deemed guilty of felony, and shall fuffer
death.
And be it further enaßed, That the mo
ney of account of the United States,
shall be expreiled in dollars or units,
dilmes ortenths, cents or hundredths and
milles or thousandths, a diffne being the
tenth part of a dollar, a cent the hun
dredth part of a dollar, a mille the
thousandth part of a dollar, and that all
accounts in the public offices and all
proceedings in the courts of the United
States shall be kept and had in conform
ity to this regulation.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of the
House of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United Stales, and President
of the Senate.
Approved, April thefecond 1792.
G. Washington, President of the
United States.
PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, April 6.
An engrofled bill, authorifmg the grant and
convevance of certain lands to the Ohio Compa
ny ofAffociates, being read a third time, and
having the blanks filled up, was passed, and ftnt
to the Senate for then concurrence.
A " bill to indemnify the eflate of the late
Major Gen. N. Gr ene for a certain bond by
him entered into for the public service during
the late war," was read a fccond time, and refer
red to a committee of the whole on Monday
next; amotion for poflpomnq; it to the fiift
Monday in August, havirfg passed in the nega
tiveyeas, 17 ; nays, 45.
Yeas—Messrs. Afhe, Clarke, Giles, Grove,
Kitchell, Macon, Madison, Moore, Schoonma-
Ver, Seney, J. Smith, Steele, Sturges, Sumpter,
Tred well, Venable, Williamfon, 17
Nays—Messrs. Ames, Baldwin, Barnwell,
Benfon, S. Bourne, B. Bourne, Brown, Find
ley, Fitzfimons, Gerry, Guman, Good
hue, Go on, Gregg, Griffin, Hartley, Hei
flcr, HiMhoufe, Hugcr, Jacobs, Key, Kitte
ra, Laurance, Learned, Lee, Livermore, Mer
cer, Muhlenberg,"'Murray, Niles, Page, Parker,
Sedgwick, Sheredine, 1. Smith, W. Smith, Ster
let, Sylvefler, Thatcher, Tucker, Vining, Wadf
worth, Ward, White, Willis. 45.
Mr. Fitzfimons, from the committee appoint
ed, reported a "bill supplementary to the ast
making provision for the debt of the United
States," which, after a firfl and second reading,
was referred to a committee of the whole on
Tuesday next.
Pursuant to the order of the day, the Houle
proceeded to reconsider the Reprcfentation bill,
together with the President's objections to the
The President's message, and the bill being
read, —
On the quefiion,
" Will the House, on reconsideration, agree to
pass the bill it passed in the negative; yeas,
28 ; nays 33.
\ EAS—Meffrs. Amef, Benfon. S. Bourne,
B. Bourne, Clark, Fitzfimons, Gerry, Gilman,
Goodhue, Gordon, Hartlv, Jacobs, Kitchell,
Kitteia, Laurance, Learned, Liveiniorc, Niles,
Schoonmaker, Sedgwick, J. Smith, I. Smith,
Steele, Thatcher, Tredwell, Vining, Wadf
worth, Ward —28.
Nays—Mcffrs. A (he, Baldwin, Barnwell,
Brown, Findley, Giles, Gregg Griffin, Grove,
Heifter, HiUhoute, Huger, Key, Lee, Macon.
Madison, Mercer, Moore, Muhlenberg, Mur
ray, Page, Parker, Seney, Sheredine, W.
Smith, Sterret, Surges, Sumpter, Tucker, Ve
nable, White, Williamfon \Vlllls 33
Ordered, that the Clerk do acquaint the
Senate with the proceedings of the House, ir
consequence of the Prcfident's message.
Mr. W. Smith laid on the table, a motion foi
the appointment of a committee to prepare a bill
for an apportionment of reprcfentatives
the several dates, according to the ratio of one
for every thirty-threethoujand ot their refpeftive
numbers entitled to reprelentation on the princi
ples of the conflitution.
Mr. Parker laid on the table a motion for the
introduction of a representation bill, with thirty
thoujand, as the ratio.
A third motion was laid on the table by Mr.
Muhlenberg, to have a bill reported with the ra
tio ild-dk, and a provision for a second enumera
tion. '
A message from the Senate, was delivered by
Mr. Secretary Otis, notifying that they had pafl
ed a " bill supplementary to the ast for the sup
port of light-houses, beacons, buoys, and public
piers, 'in which they requefled the concurrence
of the House.
Mr. Otis delivered a second mefTage, inform
ing, That the Senate had agreed to all except one
of the amendments propoicd by the House, to
the bill providing com;>enfations for the door
keepers of Congress.
The Secretary's report of Ways and Means was
again taken up in a committee of the whole ;
and after further progress, the committee role,
andalked leave to fit again.
Saturday, April?.
A " Bill, supplementary to the ast: for the
eftablilhment and support of Light
'louses, Beacons, Buoys and public Piers,"
was read a firft and second time, taken lip
immediately in committee of the whole,
amended, reported, and read a third time,
->afled and sent to the senate for their con
currence.
The bill, from the senate, for the erec
tion of a Light house on Montock Point
in the State of New-York, was taken up
in committee of the whole, reported with
out amendment, read a third tiliio, and pal
fed. . .
The House took into confiderXt'.on anc
receded from their amendment (difagreec!
to by the senate) to the bill for compensat
ing the door keepers of Congress.
A committee was appointed to prepare
i new Representation bill, with a blaftk
for the ratio, and without any provilior
for a second enumeration —The commit
tee accordingly reported a bill, which wa:
twice read, and referred to a committee oj
the whole on Monday next.
The House went into committee of the
whole on ways and means; rose and re
ported sundry resolutions, which being a
mended and adopted, a feleft committet
was appointed, to prepare a bill in confor
mity thereto.
Pursuant to those resolutions, the ex
iling duties, on the articles here enume
-ated, are to be repealed, and in lieu o
:hem, the following duties are to be :mpo
~ed ; viz.
On Wines.
Madeira of the quality of Cents
London particular per gallon 5<
Ditto London market 4 (
Other Madeira wine 4<
Sherry 3'
St. Lucar 3 C
Lisbon 2 -
Qporto 2 -
Teneriffe and Fayal 2<
A.ll other wines 40 per cent ad valorem
provided that the fame (hall not exceec
33 cents per gallon.
Spirits.
Those distilled wholly or chiefly from grain
Of the firft class of proof per gallon 2f
Of the second ditto 2<
Of the third ditto 3 :
Of the fourth ditto 3-
Of the fifth ditto 4<
Of the iixth ditto 5 C
Other diJliUed Spirits.
Of the second class of proof and
under per gallon 2;
Of the third ditto 2^
Of the fourth ditto 3 ;
Of the fifth ditto 3'
Of the sixth ditto 4<
Beer, ale and porter per gallon i
Steel per cwt. ic<
Nails per lb. :
Cocoa per ditto :
Chocolate pet ditto ;
Playing cards per pack 2.
Shoes and flippers of silk per pair 2<
Shoes and flippers of stained or coloured
leather (otherthan black) for mi
ind women per pair ic
Ditto ditto for children ;
All other (hoes and flippers (for men
and women) clogs and gololhoe.s ic
All other flioes and flippers for chil
dren '
Glauber's salts and sal ammoniac, for
every 11 alb, . 200
Articles ad valorem.
China ware
Window and other glass, and all ma
nufactures of glass, black quart bot
tles excepted
Mulkets
Pistols
Swords, cutlafles, hangers, and other
fire and fide arms
Starch
Hair powder
Wafers
Glue
Worsted laces and fringes
Paper hangings
Caff, flit, and rolled iron, andgenei
ally all manufactures of iron, steel, tin,
pewter, copper, brass, or of which ei
ther of these metals is the article oi
chief value [not being otherwise parti
cularly enumerated] other than bral;
and iron wire
Cabinet wares
Leather tanned and tawed, and all
manufactures of leather, or of which
leather is the article of chief value, not
being otherwise particularly enumer
ated
Medicinal drugs, except those com
monly used in dying
Hats, caps and bonnets of every
fort
Gloves and mittens
Stockings
Miliinary ready made
Artificial flowers, feathers and other
ornaments for women's head drefl'es
Fans
Dolls, drelFed and undrefled
Toys
Buttons of every kind
Carpets and carpeting, mats and
floor cloths
Sail cloih
Sheathing and cartridge paper
All powders, partes, balls, balsams l
ointments, oils, waters, washes, tinc
tures, elfences, liquors, or other pre
paration or competition, commonly cal
led sweet-scents, odours, perfumes or
cosmetics.
All dentifrice, powders, tinctures,
preparations or compositions whatsoe
ver for the teeth or gums.
Printed books, except those special
ly imported for a college, academy, or
other public or incorporated seminary
of learning or institution, which shall
be wholly exempted from duty.
The foregoing duties are to be appro
priated in the firft place to the payment of
the interest of the public debt; in the se
cond, to such other grants and appropriati
ons as have been heretofore made, or shall
be made during the present session ; and in
the third, to the purposes of the ast for ma
king further and more effectual provision
for the protection of the frontiers of the
United States.
An addition of two and half per cent ad
valorem is to be made to the duty on all
goods heretofore rated at five per centum
ad valorem ; which additional duty is to be
appropriated to the purposes ot the aCt
making further and more effectual provi
sion for the protection of the frontiers of
the United States, and ta continue for two
years, and no longer.
All wines imported after the —day ol
next, are to be marked at the time oi
importation, and accompanied with certi
ficates, in like manner as is provided by the
Excise law.
In the future collection of the duty on
fait, the bulhel is to be estimated as weigh
ing 561b. .
The allowance on the exportation ol
pickled filh and salted proviiions, and the
bounties to the veflels employed in the cod
fifhery are to be made conformable 4 to the
encreafed duty of fait,
Th e term, for the payment of the duties
on certain articles, is to be extended : ana
The President of the United States is to
be authorized to borrow a sum not exceed
ing 523.500d011ar5, for the purpose of de
fraying the expenses, which may be incur
red in pursuance of the ast making provisi
on for the proteaion of the Frontiers
the funds herein appropriated for that pur
pose, to be applied to the discharge of fucli
loan, with a proviso that the rate of inter
est shall not exceed per cent ; and that
the principal be payable at the pleafnre of
the United States.
A Bill (fromthe Senate) for altering the
times of holding the circuit courts in cer
tain diftrifts of the United States, was tak
en up in committee of the whole, report
ed and, by general consent, ordered to lie
on the table till Monday, to be open to cer
tain amendments, which are yet to be pro
posed.
Monday, April 9.
A committee was appointed to bring in a bill
authorizing the commilfioners for fettling the ac
counts between the United States and the indivi
dual States, toadjuft and fettle, with the agents
of the slate of Maryland, a ccrtain claim againlt
the United States.
The representation bill was taken up in com
mittee of the whole, and repotted with (he ratio
of thirty-three thou/and, which was adopted by
[he House ; —Yeai, 34 ; Nays, 30.
Yeas—Meifis. Ames, Barnwell, Ben Con,
Boudinot, S. Bourne, B. Bourne, Clarke, Day
ton, Fitzfimons, Gerry, Gilmai, Goodhue,
Gordon, Gregg, Hartley, Heifler, Hillhoufe,
Huger, Jacobs, Kitchell, Kittera, Learned, Li
vermore, Niles, Sedgwick, J. Smith, I. Smith,
W. Smith, Sturgcs, Sylveller, Thatcher, Vi
sing, Wadlworth, Ward —34
Nays—MefTrs. Affie, Baldwin, Brown,
Findley, Giles, Griffin, Grove, Key. Laurance,
Lee, Macon, Madison, Mercer, Moore, Muh
lenberg, Murray, Page, Parker, Schoonmaker,
Seney, Sheredine, Steele, Sterrett, Sumpter,
rredwell, Tucker, Vena'jle, White, William-
Ton, Willis-'.^o
The bill was then ordered to be engrossed foe
a third reading.
[At the ratio of thirty-three thousand, the re
presentation will be thus apportioned;— Ne
w 4 members; MalTachufetts, 14;
Vermont, 2; R. Island,2 ; Connecticut, 7;
Sf. York, 10; N, Jerl'ey, 5; Pennsylvania,
[3; Delaware, 1 ; Maryland, 8; Virginia, 19;
Kentucky,2 ; N.Carolina, 10 ; i>. Carolina, 6;
jeorgia, 2 : total, one hundred and Jive]
A bill, from the Senate, for altering the times
>f holding the circuit courts incertain diftriitsof
he United States, was further amended, read a
bird time with the amendments, palfed, and re
urned to the Senate.
A Eill to extend the time heretofore granted for
he payment of duties on certain teas imported af
er the 3d of March, 1791, was taken up in com.
uittee of the whole, reported without amend
ment, and orderml to be engrossed for a third
eading.
A bill, from the Senate, concerning confula and
?ice-confuls, wasdifcuffed in a committee of the
whole, and reported with sundry amendments,
ivhich were all agreed to by the House,
Mr. Gerry and Mr. Madison, during the course
jf the dav, endeavoured to bring forward the
iliort bill for the reduction of the poflage on
newspapers—but were opposed and prevented.
A message was received from the Senate, noti
fying their concurrence in the amendment pro
posed by the House, to the bill supplementary
:o the a<sfc for the eftabhfhment and support of
ight-hsufes, beacons, buoys and public piers.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
On the originating Revenue Bills by the
Secretary.
IT is the policy of the Supreme Magis
trate of mod governments to fhieldhim
elf from the effects of popular discontent
ind odium, by rendering the great Minif
:ers of State responsible for the adminiftra
ion of public affairs, so that, whether the
lifafters or evils complained of originated
n mifcondufl or misfortune, the ministers
ire made to bear all the blame.
Thus, in mod countries, whenever occa
sion requires, is the character and interests
jf the minister facrificed in order to screen
:he supreme executive, whose creature he
;s; but it has been reserved for the United
States to extend this policy to the Legisla
ture of the union, to th; total fubveriion of
that responsibility in the representatives of
the people, which is the great, the efficient
security for the due exercise of the all-im
portant trust committed to their charge ;
and is, in short, the<vita\ principle of a re
publican form ofjgovernment.
Having formerly remarked upon this con
duct as it refpefted the military operations,
I shall now proceed to offer some observa
tions 011 the fifcal arrangements.
That the funding system has appreciated
the price of certificates and advanced our
credit, is acknowledged by all, but that the
public mind is soured against that system
and that its operation has had very disa
greeable effects on society, and occasioned
distress to individuals, cannot be denied;
—it has certainly brought about a revolu
tion of habits and interests, and made a
change in the relative situation and pur
suits of society ; a new state of things ap
pears, and a mixture of consternation and
chagrin prevail?.
1 hose who have benefited by this system,
by being better informed, or more fortu
nate than their neighbors, applaud the Se
cretary of the Treasury, as if he had crea
ted their prosperity; and those who have
been overreached, or who regret the pre
vailing abuses, load the minister with the
blame of all they think pernicious.
I will firft enquire how far the Secretary,
from the nature of his office, ought to be
the object of praise or blame.—Thefuper
intendance of all the subordinate
the revenue, the prompt application of
revenue to the uses for which it was appro
priated, and to give information on these
iubjefts to the President, or to either House
of the when dire&ed so to do,
are doubtless the duties of the firft officer
of the revenue department.
If he attends to thel'e duties with dili
gence and ability, he will merit recom
mendation—and if he neglects his duty, or
deceives government with falfe informa
tion, he is censurable. That duties of a
higher order and more influential nature
have been required from the Secretary of
the Trealury respecting our fifcal arrange
ments, is well underllood—and much com
plained of.
The power of originating revenue sys
tems cau only be fafely velUd with, and
i
o
u
o
>
"C 'I
03 .
s
J
t
a.
6
v.
o I
!
>
rt
S
' 3
<U
U
u
1>
a,
oercercifed by that branch of the government,
which partakes most largely of the interest
of the people, and which by residence and
numbers are belt acquainted with the cir
cumstances of all the parts.
To this principle the conftitut'on of the
general government, as well as these of
the particular states, pays the most scrupu
lous attention ; even those states whose
least numerous branch of the legislature
poflefs the fame qualifications, and are cho
sen by the fameeleftors as the most numer
ous branch, are not permitted to prepare
money bills, because front the.fmallnels of
their numbers they Save riot fufficient
knowledge of the varied local interests, or
feelings of the people ; nor are not by fueh
frequent elections made refponlible to
them. The House of Lordsin Britain can
neither originate nor amend a money bill;
the Senate of Congress, and of this state,
can alter and amend, but not originate.
That propounding resolutions or origi
nating bills, is an exercise of legislative au
thority, and carries along with it an impor
tant influence, is the opinion of all writers
on the fubjeft ; I will only mention
De Lolme.
" Indeed I confefs it seems very natural
in the modeling of a state to intrult this im
portant office of framing laws to those per
sons who may be supposed to have before
acquired experience and wisdom in the ma
nagement of public affairs, but events have
unfortunately demonstrated, that public
employments and power improve the un
derstanding of men in a less degree than
they pervert their views ; and it has beer
found in the iii'ue, that the effect of a regu
lation which, at firft fight, seems foperfeft
ly consonant with prudcn.ce, is to con
fine the people to a meer paliive and defen
five share in legillation, and deliver them up
to the continual enterprises of those who,
at the fame time, that they are under the
greatest temptations to deceive them, pos
sess the most powerful means of elfefting it."
The prelent funding system in all its
branches, and the revenue laws by which it
isfupported, was prepared by the Secretary
of the Treasury, in consequence of refer
ences made to him by the House of Repre
sentatives—This was an exercise of power
peculiar to that House, which could not be
delegated, nor even to any other branch of
the government.
The power of legislating resides only in
those chosen specially for that purpose, and
can only be exercised according to the
modes and reltriftions prescribed in the con
stitution. Toufurp legislative authority,
partakes of the nature of treason ; aud if
thole wh» are legally vested with that au
thority transfer it to others, it is at least a
breach of trust. If it can be transferred ill
one degree, why not to all its extent ? ,
If the constitution and the nature of go
vernment will not permit the senate chosen
by the people in their state aflemblies, or
the Prelident chosen by the people through
their electors, both of them responsible, and
in a degree permanent, to exercise this
power, how improper is it to transfer that
important and most influential trust of ori
ginating revenue systems to an executive
officer, appointed during the pleasure of the
Prelident for the time, and dependent upon
his conditional negative for the continuance
of his salary.
This practice, introduced by the last Con
gress, and continued in the present, is to
make a special reference to the minister,
requesting him to prepare a system and re
port against their next felfion, or sooner, as
the cafe may be —The House does not even
fix the outlines of the plan, they do not pre
scribe from what sources a revenue lha!l be
drawn, nor sometimes the extent to which
it lhall be applied. While it lays with the
Secretary, the members, probably, pay 110
more attention to it than if they were not
concerned ; indeed they neither have the
means of knowing the fubjeft, nor investi
gating the principles with which it is invol
ved, therefore they are no more prepared
to discuss the business when it is reported,
than when it was referred. However, this
deleft is also fuppiled ; for the Secretary is
obliging enough to furnifh them with well
digested and studiously ingenious arguments
in support of the system he has prepared.
There is much goodness and propriety in
this; goodness, because it does not appear
to be among the duties required in his ap
pointment, or called for when the reference
js made to him ; and propriety, because the
business not being digelted by them, nor
prepared publicly, but in the Secretary's
closet, the members cannot be poffefled of
arguments of their own on the fubjeft.
Certainly, if the House of Representatives
originated their own bulinefs in a commit
tee of the whole, the knowledge of the bu
siness would arise out of the investigation,
and principles and arguments would luggefi
themselves trom the nature of the cafe ; or
if it was firft examiued in a numerous and
impartially chosen special committee, one
resolution would combat another, and if
the committee did not agree, the minority
of the committee would be as well prepa
red to explain the business on the floor as
the majority; in this way they would have
the advantage of two setts of arguments on
tie floor ; it is true, some of the arguments
might be laboured and seemingly inconsist
ent, and the facts a little discoloured, and
will any one fay that the Secretary's argu
ments have not been sometimes tin&ured
with these defects, or if they have not, that
another Secretary's may not ? I observe
the Secretary's arguments are quoted
authorities—Perhaps in some time they may
be bound in volumes and coniidered a;
standard authorities in revenue cafe?. We
have common law and chancery reporters,
why not have fifcal reporters also?
The Secretary ought to give information
refpefting the tranfaftions in the depart
ment which he superintends: if there is an)
defect in the laws refpe&ing it, the Preli
dent has a right to recommend it to the at
tention of Congress, either by a report 01
the Secretary, who is an executive officer
or otherways—but the President himfeli
has no right to fix principles, to fay whal
property or occupation Ihall be taxed, whal
go free, and what receive encouragement
nor what part of the public debt (hall be
funded, and what part of the public deb.
(hall be fubjeft to fix per cent, what three
and what deferred. If it be said that the
House of Representatives may alter, a
mend, or reject the systems which he origi
nates, it is granted, and Co may the Senate
alter, amend, or re : eft a bill originated b)
th? otherHoufe—The peculiar prerogative
of the numerous branch is to give the sirs
lorm to revenue bills, and this gives it ar
influence of no small importance ; but the
House of Representatives cannot fuppori
their fyltem before the Senate by tranfmit
ring along with it volumes of arguments
nor can they Ihut their doors and prepare i
in secret : In fliort, by this new method o:
legislating, the power of a negative, whicl
each branch has over the other, is not ye
transferred to the Secretary, but in ever)
other refpeft he exercises the most influen
tial part of fifcal legislation.
However, in defence of this minifteria
influence, it is not only privately Tuggelte'd
but openly argued on the floor ; that the
members are not capable of originating re
venue systems ; that their constituents ne
ver designed them for that purpose, noi
coniidered them as financiers: that altho
they are capable to judge of them wher
they are prepared or to alter, amend, o;
reject them, yet not to plan them : That ;
man may judge of a good picture or piece
of mechanism, who is not a painter or me
chanic. The sophistry of this illuitratioi
is too apparent to elcape dete&ion. A.
man cannot take the pencil and alter o
amend a picture, nor reject it and make one
in its place, who is not a painter : Nor cai
a man alter the principle, or supply anc
change thepapts of a machine who is not £
mechanic : indeed if the argument prove:
any thing, it proves too much, for it goe:
to prove that the members can neither ori
ginate, alter, nor change the-fyftem,- anc
leaves them barely the power of approving
or rejecting. If this is true, we are noi
qualified for a republican form of govern
ment ; if so, it is much better to change sot
one more finjple, while we have the powei
of forming it, than to Aide unawares into £
practical despotism, while we are keeping
up republican appearances. SIDNEY.
"PHILADELPHIA.
April 12, 1792.
Extratt cj a Utter from a gentleman in Dublin
dated January 17.
" The whole amount of the inhabitant
of Ireland is about four millions of pcrfons
It is generally dated that about three
fourths of the whole are Roman Catholics,
altho' many aflert they are eight, nine, ane
en, to one protestant; three to one, how
:ver, is the pre vailing opinion. This claf
of people from the revolution ill this coun
try, have enjoyed no participation in th
government, nor could they hold long leaf
es of land until within a few years pafl
the penal laws still exclude them from ci
tizenJhip.—within a few months, the Ca
tholics, as if by an electrical impulse, hav
met in large bodies, and pafled resolution
to remain no longer in this excluded flate
the public papers teem with names to these
resolutions, with a great proportion of res
peftable, rich catholics at their head
They propose commencing their operati
ons by an application to the Irish parlia
ment (which opens on the 19th intt.) so
an immediate repeal of a number of th:
penallaws, which if not complied with
will according to present appearances, be produc
tiveoffucha general ferment as Irelanc
lias not experienced for a century part
The persons composing the governmen
here have not been prepared for this even
Mr. Hobart, the acting Secretary of State
has been over to Mr. Pitt, and returned ;
what is determined 011 is yet to appear.
In the mean time the Machiavelian princi
ple of Divide and conquer, has been assiduous.
iy adopted, and it has produced counter
refoiutions and addrefles from the catholic
Lords Kinmare, Fingal and Gormanftown.
with the titular archbishop of Dublin and
a large number influenced by them—The
aflbciations in opposition to those nobles
liave been equallv indultrious, and are by
far the molt numerous j they have refol
veil the expulsion of Lord Kinmare from
the general committee (or parliament,
is it is frequently called) as inimical to
:he catholics of Ireland : This nobleman
ras hitherto been conlidered as the Chief
jf the catholics in the south of the king
lom. —No violence has yet taken place,
•xcept the hanging Lord Kinmare in effigy
ly a part of the populace of Dublin."
IxtraEl of another letter from thefame gentleman,
dated Dublin Fib. 15
" The representative body of the Catholics,
vho meet in Dublin, thought it expedient to re
iucs the object of their wilhes to four articles,
vhich are, ill. admiflion to the profeiiion of the
aw id. Capacity to serve as county magif
rates. 3d. A right to be Summoned and serve
>n grand juries; and, 4th, The right of voting
n counties only, for protestant members of parlia
ment, in l'uch a manner, however,as that aKoman
atholic should not vote unless he either rented
nd cultivated a farm of twenty pounds per an
lum, in addition to his forty (hillings freehold,
hefe demands, they thoiight, were so moderate
hat parliament considering the prcfent temper
nd difpolition of their body, they would not be
efufed. It appears they have been miilaken. —
The Parliament met on the 19th and 011 the 25th
1 bill was brought in by government for a fai -
her relief of the Roman Catholics : it is to have
1 second reading on the 1 th instant—the heads
re—l ft. The practice of the law. 2nd. Rcftor
ngthe power of education. 3d* Allowing the
ntermarriage9 of Catholics with Protestants, and,
.th. Removing those reftridtions by which Ca
holics were prevented taking beyond a certain
lumber of apprentices. The firmnefs ot govern
ment in refilling the three principal obje6U of
heir claim, and substituting others of ftliall confe
[uence in their place, has produced a great riuni
lerof addresses, thanking parliament for fupport
ng, and praying it to continue tofupport thepro
eftant ascendency—it is now thought that if the
till thould even reach the upper house, the part
vhich relates to the praflice of the law will be
oft there, and which is the only one of the four
rticlesof any great consequence to the Catholics;
n the mean time, the rancour against papilts and
ropery is afiiduoufly revived —the Catholics ap
>ear to be much more quiet than was expe&ed—
J arliament has railed the pay of soldiers on this
ftahlifhment; ahd also made a provision for pro
eftatit dissenting miniflers; both of wnich are
lolitic meafuresat the present moment."
A Stamp-Ait,was delervedly odious, when it
vas the ait of a foreign government : but if in
roduced by a Congress of our own creating, it
null be perfectly agreeable ; especially as the
Committee, who vefterday reported a bill contain
ng fomeihing of the kind, have Ihewn their ten
ler regard for the delicate ears of their fellow ci
vzens, by using ' a proper device ,' to avoid the ob
loxious word 'Jlamp.' Besides, we cannot rea
onably complain, since they do not propose to ap.
ily their proper device to the newspapers as yet
mt have confined it to playing cards, until per
iaps nextfejjion.
Our poor starving Invalids have at length
"ome provilion made for them by Con
;refs : and as the diftrefles of many of them
re urgent in the extreme, it is to be hoped,
hat not a moment's delay will be made by
he public officers, who are directed to fettle
hair accounts : foralthough men, who are
iccurtomed to plentiful tables, do not per
iap:i know it, it is nevertheless a melancho
y truth, that a few days falling would kill
lot only a feeble, war-worn veteran, but
ven a hearty well-fed member ofCongrefs,
ir head of a department. If, through uua
oidable delay, any of thofr unfortunate mcr
iiould ltarve before their pittance is-paic
hem, it is to be hoped their widows ant
irphans will, on the very lirft application,
eceive it, that they may at lead have fome
hing to purchase coffins for thedeceafed !
" American flatefmen going to Europe (ray:
1 New-York paper) is attended with no fmul
langer—not of the voyage, for a good fiiip will
airy an AmbafTador with as much fafety as 3
jloughman—the danger lies in their becoming
ntoxicated after thrv arrive with the Circean
baught of royalty, and falling offfiom heneft re
jubhean principles. Inthecouits of princes,
where every object bows before the crown, it is
:xtreme!y natural that they Ihould firft admire,
ind then sigh for the baubles which kings and
lobks p'olTefs."
The frequent marriages of the clergy in France
>articularly the Panfli priells, have opened as
lew ground of dispute among the Ecclefiallics,
The one party appeals to the Fathers,the councils,
nd the canons of the church ; the other, to
onimon sense, and the earlier ages of chriftian
ty ; and as nothing clenches a theological argu
nent like an apt reference to scripture, the latter
iffirm that Jcfus cursed the fig-tree for no reason
in earth but that it looked like an antiquated nun.
Several petitions have come in to Con
;refs, from merchants in various places,
igainll an increase of the duties of import.
Late letters from England mention the
learnefs and fcavcity of goods in that coun
ry, suitable for the American market.—
l"he rife is said to be owing to a com
bination of the workmen to demand
ligh wages, in consequence of the immense
lemand for Britilli fabrics, from all quar
:ers.
The statue of Dr. Franklin was last Sa
:urday fixed in its niche over the frontdoor
3f the New Library, in Fifth-ftreet.
The fliip America, Capt. Miller, and the
(hip Washington, Cant. Hodgkinfou, aftf
both arrived at New-York from Canton,
in China, after paflages of between three
and four months.
Exiraß. of a letter, datedDemcrara,Feb. 26.
" On the sth of January, being in lat.
52, 5. longitude, by account, 51. 12 weft
fiom merid. of London, we experienced a
everegaleat E. S. E. and S. E. which
jlew about fourteen hours, in which time
not daring to (hew even our fopl-weather
ry-fail.) we had our decks swept of boat, 2
water hogsheads, hen coops, and seVeral
other articles. We were so fortunate,
lowever, as to save our iron caboose, to
.vhich we owed, ultimately, the preferva-
Cion of our lives. During the gale we
hifted the greater part of our cargo, and
■vhen it cleared away, had the rnortifica
:ion to find, upon examining the hok.', that
noft of our calks of water were (love, and
lot enough left to serve all hands more
:han five or fix days at short allowance,
■vhich was not a fufficient supply to reach
he nearelt of the Welt-India Islands j and
:lie wind afterwards fettling at S. \V.
indW. S. W. prevented a possibility of
gaining Bermuda. —In this forlorn conditi
on we ltcered S. S. E. in hopes of falling
n with some European vellel bound to the
[(lands or continent ; but none of these ap
pearing, the inventive faculties of the crew
.vere set to work, and from an account the
iiate had seen in a newspaper, we foou
netamorphofed the caboole into an excel
ent. ltill, according to the directions given,
nakiug the worm of Iheet lead and tin can
lifters.—The only requisite now wanting
jvas wood, and for this the hold wasfearch
-d with an eye of the ftrifteft scrutiny.
inch pine boards, and staves had been laid
or dunnage, which with the staved casks,
upplied us with plenty of fuel for the
mrpofe of diflillation from the brine of
he ocean. Three gallons of this produc
;d about two of fre(h, agreeable enough,
md if at all disagreeable, only that it tailed
1 little soapy, which by degrees we loft the
jerception of.— We reached otir destined
jort the second instant, withdUt meeting
tny other misfortune, a id not hardly fee
ng a vefTel the whole way. —In mv opini
on it is the indifpenfible duty of every le
;i(lature, more tfpecially of a commercial
country, to compel owners and masters
of (hipping to accommodate their vefl'els
ivith liills properly contrived for distilling
ea water,to prevent those fatal diftrefles
which are constantly happening at sea,
;itherfor want of a fufficient quantity of
water haying been laid in previous to leav
ing port, or from those casualties which
are inseparable from the sea faring business.
When we (hall leave here I cannot fay ;
rnoft articles of northern produce felling
very dull."
ExtraS of a Utter from We/l-Jerfey, Jpril 6.
" I received duly, the book you for
warded to me, entitled, The Travels of
Captain Farrago. It puzzled me not a lit
:le 011 reading the work through, how,
n conscience, the author could, in his pre*
"ace, recommend it as a proper book for
chool-children, or for young clergymen,
?fpecially in such parts as the firft chapter
of the third book—what information could
children receive from the vulgar Irilh-cifras
in the latter end of the second chaptcr of
:he fame book—ls it requisite to initiate
young minds in the profane art of fwear
ng, as exemplified in page 129 and several
at'ner parts of Mr. R—'s performance ? —
One would think, from many (pecimens
hat might be adduced out of this farrago,
hat the author Ihould have placed in his
;itlepage the following motto :
" I leave you here a little look
For you to look upon,
That you may learn to curse andfuiear,
When I am dead and gone.'"
Neither do I approve of the freedoms Mr.
■?. takes with the clergy, in chapter 4 of
jook 3, where he evidently maketh jell of
loly things, and such as ought to be held in
■epute by sober minded persons."
Meteorological Observatios.
April, 1792.
D. H Bar. Ther■ fVind. Weatk
Monday, 2. 7 go. 3 44 S. W. Fair.
2 30. 25 69 do. do.
Vuefday, 3. 7 30. 3 45 s.s.w. Far.
2 30. 3 73 do. do.
Vednrfday, 4. 7 30. 4 50 N.E. fair.
„ 30. 4 69 s.s. E. lortdy
Thurfclay, 5. 7 30. 25 60 S. Clovdy.
2 30. 3 73 do. do.
Friday, 6. 7 30.2- 55 Calm, foggy.
2 30. 1 71 s. [Ham.
Saturday, 7. 7 go. 12 54 N. W 1 Cloudy.
a| 30. 2I 62 do. I Fair.
Sunday, 8. 7 go. 4 45 jE.N.E. Fair.
2 30. 42) 60 I do. \Hazey.
Ptc 1 (J Ji or bl OC KS.
S'x per cents, per £. - - ~2e/.
< Three ditto - - - J2f.
Deferred 'ix ditto, - - 15/6.
Final settlements, &c. - r J 7 .
Indents - - -
Half fliares Tank Stock 50 per cent advance,OS*g£rz22§S>2 c R°o3>RKwfiOffi>w „
H "* h I
° eg Dw >s*p>S3 2 2 2
> f, j go £•< c££g J £
i—2 ►--< ►_, J-" 4 *j(— j\ »—( ij^^jKCr)
X g5 > °gg f. | 5= > H ?
£ . >> " I I >> "S • •>
. vj 5 " M
U> 2 |<^K>too^c>^Ol l fc.►.M^DMc , r-t m
£ js. g " J'S sO !i *—t "j
c? ' " * * Oi O Is i" 2 tj
d OS GO In H, I j£ O"" 4 " N ►• B >*U B(0 OsOO CO > "1 50
w 2 ■?" t»N, B - cn ovcoi CO OI £ CO Cn <! H £~
53 I • ••••••••... L_J rj-^.
£rj ' !r >> I ™ cn vi wow t* cAI-<
' 2 I 00 Q a>HQj co o cn s° c? W O
» „ b £ IS r » « » r - o. b " 2> H
C 3 • • « . CO ' -> IB M *"? «
,_, " „ * * - J- OOCn (0 Cn S> •* > tL
D i „• 0 I :f* £«v !° "P » Pr f P -J ZJ
Wo j? 5- I en ~oovj ooco co osco vj 00-o ooco co £? w "
[~ 1 a- otn o to o* d
>—< I I '-J — I H~ +|..N)W w|M J.|WN>|«
- I J 3 I l-rl I ■>- "" KJ W
t 1 * t? I m Q 1 • I "" >* I-? it (TiOM 0010 CTi - S "Cj S
50 - M P S Z 'i> m "as ooCo oi o "- o &i _ Z „,
2 o uvuoosfc oob oib(o o moi io O — d
|? w |f ri< i s V l F I F r ' P o cr. O «-
wJ 1 " 1 I «BCOOl» £-
c 5 - M ,r K H I O oo *-* o o O Woo !?. tJ a
rj «- "OS poli 7l 2 CO W
w O 5" I.? 1 P 50 2
•_)".. • w I 4» 00 oo Co VJ (0 .i. CC --J S_ ~ h» 3
ZvitJCn S I r OO O 0000 o Vi vf- oo --j p*. CTSOS H --♦
00 _*_0_ ? * M 3"
V - 1 I >■ OiM ?
h* I -H>- NIM N|M-MU. G~)
t » a ? m $
# ? • • •>• g O S . . 2 I
►* S- Z laioiN-v) mwooio ® >-<»-3 r"
<jo S I • • * • Cn cn IJ >
Ft, — — 1 — ! fc, I r VI B CO OOK g. +H 2 Q
x . > I §: so g
Vv> kj ( 0?! a -'* "b^rnO
Of° . * . . O .' . - rr> . £> W | V-O i-* J
O CO "o cn • • Ico CO Co Cr» -vj Co W H
' ... . OS . M » . I . V • T > <
?500 «J1 < o<o0 < 0 I Cn 00 to 00 OSVJ vj 0 -J fi>
v» — — u — v ~£° .- I vto. O c-cn U O Cn or <>'r tn
I sjl '-'
to CoS 1 i° " "
"oo " * • • S. • • • • tX * i' g 2
•N . .. c; I H M B '
v , . ' ■» W - 10 Oi. vj OO 4- VO I—4 n
cncn Oo CO i- f-cOl - • • cn ™ !ii
, n » io „ M Ol tOMCn !» o>
x m 0 Cn CO CO oovj g > a,
, coo, " - § ? > " " bo 3*
- P 5»S* ' * S • • • • ?• ? g 2 « SS .%. S . - ScS 8- . w O
K . _ (-S >vj Co cn t3 w
\C -v to ° cr> | .... _
Ki 00 i? I 00 Cn rjf
• -n ~ —-j — I CO to to to OOCn O O CA 00 • <t>
0 Cn to K)M - H-j Ito " (O 1 — ,
vjm O to - Oicooi a> coo ro co I q |o to co to
—< 2v M o o •-] vF\° J s
j \D 'O O-I Oi <0 0000 to Oi. M OO to I VO d V I to ►-* oo CO to O CO H 1£) to Co • W —
Or j <-0 o OiO CO I Cn 'L. I ° o>toOi" HH to'Cn(7'. 00 lq L CT
. , ', ' _ ""*•*"* * ! o t- J 00 Cn nj io w Cn CO vi cn 2
\J M to vji. oocn I 2i I* .... > Cld
r n ' OCo ,M M pop M | S L> | OOCn Cn to 'O
OO I j ft \\ I to ' Cn O *-Q *.0 Cn oo nj h hQj ' r « v^O
hri >? mmniococommo k - W £T
to° ICOOMMCo MQP M j c 2ooOwO CO sH H» iT'
v, to ' ChCO cr.co O to toOl OO i ?- f - _ - - - -
" vi to M sj Cn oo OYvO VO ►* I • * o (?i m io C! uJ 00
• • • • * * • I O I O CO >- Co o O Cn ai . vj co Cn
h—« vj co cn to co cc'C? to to - . r> h> J toco - cnax crico o - co
hlh OMO si o CO O0 VJ to o CO oo' yy I * * * ' ' ' * * * " O O
w|K-.M|f-. m|m I • 2< I to CO vj M CTi »-4 Cn to co to cV A 3
7? — vj ccvi - o oo to to cr>co vj m • 3
_ t T . , KJ , I N|w hilM W N M|l-N»|»-Ul) M
k-y CO M (J to CO CO to (J , I J
Oo "« vj co Voo oo> oiloiHoo M olj>. « to S n
" I io c o a",cn vjco»hß.toi-co»-L 0 ,_j>-J|~ •• » 5 „
co oim <5 Hsj I >' « at cj o to . "
S5. 1 01 ovi • oio • cn- • • co Si
f— I oo VJ OOCn tovt a>. A S- Us I Oo ; 10 O CnOo to COCOVJ Cn rr\
v-* b I tntovj C>in »+>. vj to i* l ! t * " t . O
— , ~ — I 2 I Cn cn CO vj Cn i-#^
W " - to » M >o — 00 '° £ L_Jl >
Co c> O cb "(no "cr>S>.'bio'booP [Tiw|2o „ m Om £ ? 2i
to 0> 00 *0 Co CO . ►&» 4i>oo . »—« Cn Co Co Cn *° to to to v> j r\
to OOCO O CIOS i?l o I - -Cn' ta»*Cn> hcoCO' • "I Ytt
l l ] * * .... y. I* •• •« ' ...
J *r {? OO 0> to CT) OOCn L? 2
Cn o O j 5 W (7) O o O I to O O O to o O
M(M w fr» hJ|l-i. . I •' — •
VI M —— ———— I ■ »-4
<poo »cn i IB m OO oo co iocoi-y cn to,u 2
vj to Cn o cr> to kq . ,-J I * - ~ VO
o b obi oovi N - oo cn N oo 5 O 1 • cn • • % • S • % • • X a> t "r r? vP
vj » OMVICOVJ CMO to Co Co °
Cn Otn CO WCOva-vjsja,o S M I* - • vwv>JCO OOtOjcn W
* ** ••• ..... OO to Mvq O^l? w-7
cr> " vj »-»00 co o> s o co <vO M m I o »- < X I
co O vj ooco vj o co o o co !r I — C Oo
- " ' o (_I I to Ml Kj Q O
to Mtototo S A to"»OVJ ■> C 5 S>
ST iP S?:. 0 h B 2 -i . g.. . vo . as. S 00 F" r
oo O cn cocn Bcoooscnvnoiios ° cn£ IP I . k £-M . rn
to ►* CO - CO O OOVJ o VJ £, 1J M I . ' ' • Cb
vj OOCn Cn Co O Cn 10 to OOi O t-^»"" , CnasOO Co
* | , 7^_.. > " O **cn vj *r "
Jv kt-ovjcooococnvj rv «Z I " io JT
vj SiO M'O OiCn CO|J>.^V| O OOOS~ I
f|N >»|» Oi-WIH U)M i" I O0 S Z S
"cotoM M
I eg CO VJ OOVJ asCn • VI o O CO * in j O
O Co 4* Co O to Oo ** S
IcriQoas Ik a VJ ncn 5- py •"
l VJ
y ' Sh
Ico- C>«Cn bv» w r
, l^tocococoootooocncnosorsfc)
1 V r V oi » ui . to o o V ■ £?- j %
I c £. c " to Cn co 00-toCn rs S
OiOiO cnooo CniiOiO "
"> w MH 1 ?
Sales at Auction,
By M'FARRAN & DUNLAP,
At the Merchants' Coffee-houfe, in New-York,on
Wednesday the 25th of April next, at 12 o'clock,
rr'HAT valuable and well known Grift Mill and
Farm, late the property of Abraham De Peyfter,
deceased ; near Fish-kill landing, i, Dutchefs'coun
ry,fevtnty miles from this city, upon the Hudson or
North river, The mill-house is 32 by 80 feet, has
one pair French burr, and one pair Efopus Jlones,
7iew and of an approved quality ; a reding fcrcen,
fanning mill, ami a complete Jet offlout belts, turn
ing by •water, ali of which are new and in perfect
trder ; as also every other part of the work, having
lately undergone a thorough repair. The Jiream, a
never failing one, capable of turning in addition to
tbeprcfint, a fulitry and Jaw mill, for which the
ft nation affcrds proper conveniences, and very ad
vantageous, the waters if the Hudson flowing up to
the mill-tail, at which a vessel drawing 6 feet wa
ter, may load and unload, and in the Left wheat
country in the flare. The dwelling is large, commi
diciij, and wellfir.ifhed, built of brick a/rdftone, 39
by 50/tf.', pleasantly fltuated within frxty yards of
tie mjll, with a han/fome garden in front, and an
itcitllint firing tf witter, a.-.d a new well built
Dutch barn j aI jo a small bouse at a convenient dif
tance from the mill, calculated to accommodate i
trade/man. The farm cons.si: of 274. acres, inciu
ding the mill fir earn, about 140 acres of-which is aj
excellent grove of growing timber, lying in a bod\
not more than half a mile from the mill, and a goo,
ft" «f mowing ground, all properly fenced-, a small
but good orchard, producing abundance of the het,
apples, with a number of other fruit trees, difperfL
near the house.
This is truly a valuable and advantageoufiy situ
ated property, -which renders it an cbjeii -worthy tb,
attention of a man of business, when it may be ex
tended to any length. One half of the pur chafe mo.
ney will be required on deivtry of the deeds, (wbc,
possession will be given J the other half in one yeai
with interefi, fecurcd by a mortgage on the prcmife,
An indisputable title wi/l be given—for furth-,
particulars enquire of Mcjfeurs Far ran am.
Dunlap, Peter A. Schcnck, New -York ; or of Ifaa.
De Peyfter, feller, on the premises.
New-York, March 31- 2.a.w,
*** A f e ™ Copies of the Report of th<
Secretary of the Treasury on the Ast so,
laying Duties on Spirits, &c. for fait at
this OJice.
HOWELL's
LARGE MAP of PENNSYLVANIA.
THIS work is e ngravej in the most elegant fty/e,
and will be ready for delivery in the Spring
It,, 63 inches long and 36 inches -wide, and for the
*°ftpart -very full of work (except feme small places
f which materials were no, to be had) and was
wholly complied from aSlual surveys, acquired at
ireat expence of money, and more than four years la
hour, and from it, manifeft public utility, the Lerif
■ ature has been pleased to grant the proprietor .he
jum of three hundred pounds.
This map exhibits the County and Town/hip Di.
vtfions, and tbofe of the Surveyori Diftrifts in the
New-Purcbafe, Donation and Depreciation Lands ;
be waters, portages, and the Canal mountains and
va/teysf roads y toivns, &c.
He thanks the Public for their very liberal fub
'■ription, and informs them that it wilt not be closed
before the middle of April next. He fells his sma, I
m ass, on eanvajt, folded and cas'dfor pocket ■ar
lege, at 10fb, and plain at 8/4.
READING HOWELL.
North ffbftreet, No. Wi—March j.
Prices Current at PkitadelpkU.
A [Dollar equal to 100 Cents.]
SHES Pot per ton 90 Dois. to 100
Alhes pearl 137 _ _ jaq
Bacon flitches, perlb. 7 cents
Bacon shoulders 6 Jo.
Bees wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27
Brandy, Coniac pr gl. i dol. S o c. to I d. 6; c.
drandy, common, idol. 26 s.
Butter, in kegs, per lb. 10 c. tau.
Coals, per bulhel, 20 c. to 22
Coffee, per lb. j8 c.
Cotton, per lb. 26 c. to 4a
Flax, per lb. 10 c.
1 lour, super fine, per barrel, 5 dols, 6 c
Common, *
Burr middlings, be<>, p „ bt j. d J,
Meal Indian 2 dols. 67 c.
Rye 3 dols.
Ship (luff, per cwt, i dol. to , dol. 33 c .
Gin, Holland, per cafe, 4 dols.
Ginseng, per lb. 20 c. to 24
Grain, bailey, per bulhel, 90 c.
best Hulled, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per buihe), 40 c.
Indian corn, 40 c. 44, Oatj 26 c. pr. bufli.
Kye 50 c. to 54, Wheat 95 to j dol.
Hams, perlb. 8 c. t» 9
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67c.
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9 c. to 1 x
indigo, Carolina, perlb. 40 c. to 1 dol.
Iron, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
Caltings, per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nail-rods per ton 96 dols.
P'St per ton, 24 dols. to 26 dol*. 67 c.
Sh:et, per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
Lard, hogs, per lb. 9 c. to 10
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
in pigs, 5 dols. 33 c. to j dois. 67 r,
,1,, .' 6 dul *- 40 «• to 0 dols. 67 c.
White, ——10 dols. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Myrtle wax per lb. 18 c.
Molaflea, per gal. 46 c. to 50
Pitch, p.cr barrel, 1 dol. c. to 2 dol'
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, ~ dohto'n d.«c.
Lower County, do. 10 dols.
Carolina, „ dols>
Rice, per 100 lb. 2 dols. 67 c.
Rofii), per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 dols. 67 c.
m > Ant'Suaj per gallon, 1 dol.
Barbadots, do. do. 77 c.
New-England, &c. 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. s2 c.
Windward Island, So to 83 c.
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
•sugar, Havanna, white, perlb. 17 to 18 c.
Brown, per lb. 1 3 c.
Muscovado, per cwt. 14 dols. to 15 dels.
Lump, perlb. 22 c.
Loaf, single refined, 25 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 c.
Tallow, refined, per lb. 9 c.
Tar, New-Jcrfcy, 2+ g ,j. t0 the br , J <Jo , <
Carolina, 32 gal. , dol. 33 c. ,0 , dol. 67 C .
Tea, Hyson, per lb. 93 c . to 1 c.
Hvion ikin, j3 c. to 67
Soufhong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c . to 50
Bohea, 34 c. to 36
Tcbacco, James River, LeXl. per cwt. 3 dols. 6q
to 3 dols. c.
Inferior, 2 dols. 67 c. to 3 dols.
Oldj 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 2 dols. 50 c. to 3 do!
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl^ 33 c. to 2 i
Daik, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leal, 2 dols. 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dols. 23 c.
Carolina, new, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dols.
Carolina, old, 2 dols. 7c. to 3 dols.
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. 67 c. to 2 dols.
Wine, Madeira, per pipe, 106 dl. 67 c. to 200 dl.
Lilbon, 96 dols. to 100
Teneriffe, per gal. 51 c. to 60
Faval, , 44 c. 49
1 or(, per pipe, 106 dot. 67 c. to 120 dols
R TWENTY DOLLARS REWARD.
AN away in Augult 1790 from the sub
scriber, living in Queen Ann's caun
cy, ealtern shore of Maryland, a country
aorn Negro woman, called GRACE. She
s about middle aged, very low of stature
round face, remarkable small feet, for a
legro, and has loft several ofher fore-teeth.
The lapse of time lince Ihe has abfeonded
enders it unnecellary to describe her
.loathing. She is artful and talkative, and
[ make no doubt has palled for a free wo
mn, and got into Pennsylvania or Dela
ware states. The above reward fliall be
jaid to any per fen securing said negro and
riving information thereof to lier master
ind reasonable charges if brought home '
Edward Harris!
Feb. 23. g vv law _
PF rdnefday nigbt laji, a Negro
Man, about twenty-lbm years old, lad on a
igbt-co.oured Jhort ceat : took wirb bin a pair of
eatber breeches and a pair of pun fluff do!a bea
ver but half worn, narrow brim and deep crf.ua :
* patr of be»ts \ striped cotton and f/k Jhckings
be is Jlim made—reads and writes a legible band
has, l am informed, procwed a pass and a certifi
rate of bis being a freeman. It is probable be will
endeavor to get on beard fame vej/el, either at this
place or Ne-w-Tori. He bas ajmall fore under bit
chin, occajioned by cutting out a -wen. I will give
Ten Dollars reward for Jtcurirrg bun, if in this city ;
Twenty Dollars if taken it A em-Tori, or a.'.y
other place of theJame diftar.ee, ar.d pr, ail re i
!*nable expercex,
ANDREW MOQREy Sprucr.-ftreet, No, lis.
Philadelphia Mcrcb 9, 1792.
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S and SWAINE
AT THIIK urMCE, NO. 239, HIOH-STPEET
ftAI SIXTH-STttET,
fHil ADEiFHIA.