[Numb. 17 of Vol. ll.] W E D N E S D A Y, December 26, 1792.
The following comm'unication from the
governor of New-York, was read 111
the Senate of that state on Thursday the
13th instant.
Gentlemen,
WITH the mellage you will receive
a copy of a letter from the
chief* of the seven villages of Lower Ca
nada, dated the 24th of February lail, and
delivered to me in the recess ; from this
communication, as well as from another
made by me at the lad fefiion, it will ap
pear that they lay claim to some lands i:i
the northern parts of this state, concern,
ing which they express a desire of confer
ing with the (late. 1 submit therefore to
your consideration, whether some provisi
onal arrangements ought not to be made
upon this fubjeft. I take this opportuni
ty of laying before you a letter from Isra
el Chapin, Esq. upon Indian affairs, and
of calling yonr attention to a meniar:::]
of the Fish carrier, and other chiefs of the
Cayuga nation, formerly presented to th.
Legislature, soliciting the privilege ol
leafing the lands reserved to their use.
The treaty held at Chemung point, by
Col. Pickering under the authority ol
United States, which fandlioned a lease
that they had given of their reserved
lands, although in that refpe£t disapproved
by the President, appears to have left an
imprefiion upon their minds that encoura
ges them to persevere in their application.
I am sorry to observe, that a diviiion
which exists among the chiefs ol that na
tion, and which the lall treaty was calcu
lated to heal, ftiil occasions considerable
embariaffmerit in making the (lipuiattd
annual payments, and in tranfafting bufi
ness with them.
You will also receive a letter from
Col. Pickering, covering a speech of
some Onondaga chiefs, made to him on
the 27th of April last, refpe<fling fotae al
terations which they with to have efie&ed
in the boundaries of their reserved lands.
The fait springs reserved by trifety for
the mutual benefit of the state and the
nation, are objects very interesting to the
community, and are daily becoming more
fo,by the progress of lettlement in the
western country. Under present circum
ftanees it is impra&icable to prevent tref
pafiej upon that property, and impofiti
011s upon the public, without the aid of
lcgiflative intcrpolltion.
GEO. CLINTON,
New-York, Dec. 13, 1792s
The above melfage and the several pa
pers therein referred to, were committed
to a committee of the whole house.
From the Augujla Chronicle, of Dec. I.
THE legislature now being in fefiion,
I beg leave, to suggest for their consider
ation, a measure—the importance of
which renders it » fubjeft well worth de
liberation ; and the many abuses result
ing from it call loudly for legislative inter
ference.—lt needs only to be mentioned
to evince the propriety of the present ad
dress.
In this enlightened age, it is scarcely
neceflaryto adduce any arguments to.prove
the iniquity and impolicy of the Have
trade. If we will attend, for one mo
ment, to the circumllances attending ev
ery stage of this horrid traffic, we roust
conftfs that it is iniquitous; or shut the
eye of reason altogether.
Nature gave flhe African rights, of which
he cannot be divested without an adt of
injustice. In all the northern states the
importation of Haves is prohibited by law.
Georgia is now the only state in the uni
on, which fanftions the trade. How a
itoniihing is it that we, who have so re
cently waded through the field of blood,
endured hardships hitherto unparalelled in
the hiitoric page, and expended millions
to eftablilh our rights, should now conti
nue to ast so inconfutcntly, and be so
By P. FIJ.ENEAU: Publijhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
blinded by (what I may call a mistaken)
felf-interelt, as to overleap the bounds of
justice, equity and humanity, and de
prive our fellow creatures of those very
rights, to preserve which was the cauL*
of our late long and glorious struggle
with Great Britain.—The only crime,
we can alleage againlt the African, is the
dark hue of his lkin. Does this juftify
the trade ? Because it hath pleased Ah
mighty God, our common creator, ta
Impress upon their furfaces a colour dif-
Serent from our?, are we privileged to de
r >rive them of their natural rights ? Sure
ywe are not. No cafuidry can juftify
:he inhuman traffic—for
— What's in it's nature wrong,
'No excut'e can pailiate,no plea can alter'
I will not, Mr. Printer, trespass or
rojir time to (hew the impolicy of tlx
lave trade, though it might eafiiy bt
lone.— Let it futliee for the present ti
nake one remark.— Tho' an enemy tc
lavery in every lhape—yet it is an evi
vhich wtf cannot now get rid of—l d<
lot wiili to convey the moil diitant idea
hat I am an advocate sot the emaneipati
>n of those, whom we now have in bon
lage—fueh a measure, though desirable
[ conceive to be attended with unfurmoun
able difficulties.—l only with to flop th<
irogrefs of the evil (for I contend thai
lavery is an evil) for the present—But 1
ook forward, with a pleafuig anticipation
o the time, when (lavery (hall not bi
tnown in tue United States.
A Friend to the Rights of Alan.
Augulla, Nov. 29, 1792.
[From the fame pa her. ]
A message from the House of Repre
entanves by Mr. Simmons, their clerk,
"Nov. 30]
Mr. Preji.lent, The house having, ac
:ording to the order ot the day,
:o ballot for a Senator to represent thi:
lite in the Cong: ess of the United State:
n the room of the Hon. William Few
Esq. whose time will expire on the 4tl
lay of March next: And the ballots be
ngtaken and examined, it appeared thai
the honourable James Jaekfon had 2i
votes ; the honourable William Few 3
and General George Mathews I.
Re/olvcd therefore, That the said Jamei
Jaekfon be, and he is hereby appointee
Senator for this (late in the Congress o;
the United States, in the room of the faic
William Few, Efq,
1 he Senate took up the foregoincr mel"
sage—And, 011 motion being made, pro
ceeded by ballot to vote for a Senator ti
represent this state in the Congress o:
the United States ; and the ballots beinj.
ta! icn and examined, it appeared thai
there were eleven votes for the honoura
ble James Jaekfon, and two for the hon.
William Few.
Whereupon, Rcfolved, That the Senate
doth concur with the resolution of the
House of Representatives relative thereto,
To the Editor of the National Gazette.
Sir,
THAT women greatly influence the
habits and manners of men the hillory oi
most civilived nations, as well as our own
experience, will fufficiently prove ; nay
that they often give impressions which
continue during life, the observations oi
every unprejudiced observer will equally
fubftantiate—lt will not be denied that
an intercourse with our sex polishes the
manners, and gives a delicacy to the minds
of men ; if such is their influence, I am
not wrong in supposing that they are ca
pable, aud very often give a cast to out
political complexion—The superior light
in which you have been accultomed to
view yourselves, may make this opinion
of difficult admission ; but on re(le£tion it
will be found, that the secret power which
we have over you, enables us to fafiiion
you lords of the creation as we please—
It is fcarceiy neceflary to resort to time;
pad to prove my poljtion ; the history o;
France will furnilh ample testimony in mj
favour, not only that women have fafhi
oned, but that they have a&ually govern
itl men, Perhaps the cause of the prefen!
revolution of France may he traced to thai
government J the earl of Chefterfield flip
posed that women gave men a currency,
the hiltory offome ofthe ancient republic!
■nlorm: us that women formed some ol
.fieir most renowned patriots—lt is e
trite faying that a man mull alk his wife
ir he 'hall be rich ; I will extend this idea
a little further and lay, that a man mud
:!'c our sex if he tell be free. The great
influence winch fafhion has, and there are
tafhionable opinions a3 well as faihion3 in
dress, may be justly termed tyranny, and
that we diredt Falhion is incontrovertible.
It then a frtfbion is introduced which may
serve to lessen ' ive independence of the hu
man mind, by teaching it a humility re
pugnant to republican principles, am 1 not
juit in the inference that we form your
political characters ; that we can hold
out liberty, or llavery to you ? So jealous
is the government of China, that the cus
toms, manners and fafhion3 of the present
day have been from time immemorial, and
are preserved with an a!molt religious ve
neration, left a change in them might
produce a revolution in their political be
lief : ought we not to have the fame jea*
ioufy with regard to our government, and
:t poflible Rifle any practices which favour
; f diiliri£hou and inequality, left we ky a
foundation for a change in our politics
• r der ? The above rcmsi kj fuggetlec
:hemfelves to my mind on reading fomt
ejections in your paper under the differ
:nt signatures of Mirabeau and Condor
::t. The remarks of those writers are but
;oo just, but they have not flruck the
:vuat its root. I conceive that they JhouL
rave refjrted to us as leading instrument:
a such anti-republican dillintlions ; wit
less THE DRAWING ROOM !!
No character or place ought to be si
"acred in a republican government as U
above criticilm. Inviolability and in
fallibility are royal qualities, whichJlave.
3n!y can comprehend- It is the unaliena
ible prerogative of freemen to fcrutiniz*
:he condudt of their rulers, and if dero
gatory to just and equal principles, il
sught to meet their severest reprehension,
ro elevate any charader,however merito
-ious, beyond the level of scrutiny, is tc
rftablifh a precedent big with the mod
Jeftruftive consequences. It is to lay
aut the turnpike of slavery. It might be
:onfidered as an invasion of female rights,
for you, gentlemen, to comment upon the
eondudi of women, butforoneof the fame
lex to do it, will, perhaps, abate a little
of the censure ; mine has been the talk,
and I trust that my fair countrywomer
will not perlift in giving currency to opin
ions, deftru&ive of equality, the vita!
principle of republicanism. Let us fafhior
men to virtue, but not to the ferviiity and
adulation of royalty ; let us reverence meril
in whatever form or station it may appeal
to us, but let it be the reverence of digni
fied and independent minds ; let us difplaj
our charms to show our individual free
dom and confeqnence, but let us beware
of becoming fate/lites, left our revolution:
fr.ould be made permanent, and we be de
prived of the power of receding. In ;
free government every man is a king, eve:
ry woman is a queen ; each should prefervi
the individualfovereignty guarantiedby cu
constitution that all mem are boin equal
ly free" To homage anyone is to deftro:
the equality which conflitiites the effenct
of our sovereignty, and is a degradation
of freemen. May heaven corre£t our sol
lies, teach us that virtue and equality ar<
essential to freedom, and destroy the thri
ving plants of antirepublicanifm in Ame
rica !
CORNELIA.
Dec. 21, 1792.
[Total No. 121.J
Translations from the Leyden Gazette, and
other French papers—October 2— 9 13.
Leyden, The liege of Lisle seems to
have been an undertaking beyond the
powers of the army employed for that pur
pose. I nirty thousand men only was the
extent of the force sent against such a
place as Li!le, which in the war for the
succession, kept at bay for three months
Prince Eugene and the duke of Marlbo
rough at the head of one hundred thou,
sand men.
The existing government of France,
among other ambaffador3, authorized by'
the king, thought fit to recall M, Choi
feu! Gouffier from Constantinople ; and
appointed M. Semonvilie, to succeed him.
The ministers of Austria, Ruflia, and Pruf
(ia,&the two Sicilies, refideat at the Porte
hearing this, represented ta the Ottoman
court, in a body, the inconveniences that
would result from the appointment
of such a man, who ought rather to be
:onfideied as j the emiflary of a faction
;han a public minister. The Porte gave
ar to thefc representations, and parted a
iecree not to admit M. Semonville as
French ambaflador, nor even to fuffer him.
:o land at Constantinople. In the mean
ime, till matters should be fettled, M.
was ordered to remain ambafia
lor from the court of France.
All desertions fiom France have ceased,
:xcept of the refradtory priests, who, the
atterend of September, were itill flying,
jy hundreds into the Belgic provinces, in
1 state very little, if any, better than ab
olute beggary. The arch-bithop Cardi
al ofMalines (Brabant) has publiftied a
rircular letter on thia fubjeft, reeommend
ng the emigrant French clergy to the
:harity of his Diocese. His letterbeginS
hus, "The unprecedented cruelty which
l nation (apostates from the religion of
heir forefathers) has manilefted towards
he lord's anointed, is the occasion of an
mmenfe number of priests emigrating
rom Fiance; and as many of them have
:hofen the Belgic provinces for a place of
:xile, rather than basely abjure the Catho
ic faith, it becomes us by every lawful
neans in our power to relieve and com
ort them. We there/ore exhort and be
"eech all monasteries, chapters, parifti
:urates, rectors, &c. &c. to have compaf
ion upon these miserable men, and not
"uffer them to perish amangft us, of hun
ger, after having cfcaped the vengeance
Df tyrants ) remember that we fliall re
reive from above the fame measure we
mete to these our distressed brethren ;
Blefled are the merciful, for they Ihall
receive meicy, &c. &c.
The following address to the kin* of
Prussia, composed by a French emigrant,
was circulated through the combined ar
mies, a little before the retreat from the
French frontio- " Sire ! God by whom
all kings reign, and of whom they are the
perfect images on this earth, has chosen
your majelty to re-eftabliih our unfortun.
ate monarch upon his throne, and to re
(tore to his crown,as well as to all France
its ancient splendour. The frontiers
and the conquered towns already re-echo
with the found of your glorious exploits ;
This town (Verdun) rather unfortunate
than culpable, having now fliaken off the
rebel-yoke, pays homage to your valour
by opening its gates and receiving your
laws, —yes, fir,—we glory in acknowleg
ing ourselves the moll faithful fubjedts of
our good king, and we will consider that
day as the happiest of all our lives, which
by means of your triumphant army fhallre
ftore to us our princes, our priests, and
our brave emigrants. From our great ex--
ample, all the towns and provinces of the
kingdom, to the capital itfelf, shall fall
proitrate at the feet of our raoft virtuous
ibvereign—all France will unite with u»
in rendering the submission and obedience,
the refpett and love due from the subject
to the monarch ; and at the fimpie mention
of the name of FREDERIC WILLI-AM, at the mere report of his victorious
arms—all France lhall submit and acknow
lege the jnftice of the cause he befriends ;
which is the cauje of God him)elf- —of that
O'od by whom kings reign—a common
cause between the sovereign and the peo
ple, whole mutual regards must alone con
stitute their mutual huppinefs !
Convey then, most puifl'ant monarch,
convey to Louis the affections of those
faithful citizens who are forever devoted
to his service—you have gained our hearts
by your molt amiable qualities, and by the
ineffable wijdom which presides over your
councils, and which directs your glorious
entefprizes.—Mighty monarch, who art
come to break our chains, and to restore
us to r;al liberty, deign to receive from
us the most refpeitful tokens offubmiflion,
the homage of affection, admiration, and
eternal gratitude.—Our churches and our
walls (hall resound with adoration to that
deity who protects us—and it (hall be en
joined upon our latest posterity to extol to
the Ikies the glorious name of the great,
the conquering, the immortal Frederick
William, THE DELIVERER OF
FRANCE ! !!
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
Late advices from Europe, by the Ship ra
tiixent Planter, arrived lafl fi'iday, a
Baltimore.
BONNE, October j.
The necessity which the commanders o;
the armies, combined against France, havt
been in, to draw fuccellively to them al
the German trcxjps Stationed on the Rhine
firft the body under General Prince ho
henlohe-Kirchberg, next the body thnt re
mained under the or;l?rs of Count d'Er
bach., has left to the French an open field
not only on the fide ot Thionv.lle, when
they intercepted a considerable convoy
but also on the Rhine. Coming fron
Strafburg and Fort Loins, they attackec
with forces much superior the 3000 troop
of Austria and Mentz who composed the
garrifonof Spire, killed or tookthe whole
took pofleffion of the city, and tranfportcc
the magazine to Landau. Ihe alarm ha;
spread to Manheim, vVorms, and evei
Mentz. The inhabitants fly, ai*l the con
sternation is universal. This expeditior
took place on the 29th of September.—
Higher up, and on the Moselle, the Frencl
have made a second irruption into th;
Electorate of Treves. Five tllonfanc
French with 9 cannon, arrived on the 29tl
at 7in the morning, at Merzig, obligee
the garrison of Treves to retire, deftroyec
the provilions, &c.
Mentz, Oft. 2. The invasion under Ge
neral de Cuftine, by the orders of Genera
Biron, on the territory of the Empire, anc
the capture of Spire, with the large ma
gazine for the Imperial armies, whicl
were eftablilhed there, has spread terroi
and consternation through all this quartei
us Germany- Our city is shut up, and n(
one can either come in or go out. T he na
vigation even of the Rhine is impeded, tc
the great injury of commerce : the num
ber °of fugitives from Heidelburg anc
Worms, and all that part of the Rhine, i:
conliderable. —Of the 3000 men most o:
whom were from Mentz, the remainder
Auftrians, who protested Spire and tin
magazine, under the orders of Colone
Winckelmann, very few eft-aped ; almofl
all were killed, drowned in the Rhine 01
taken, but not without making a very re
solute defence. The French, of whon
the greater part came from Landau, a
mounted to about 11 or 18000 men. Then
superiority was, therefore, too decided tc
admit of opposition. It is said, that t'nej
intend coming as fai as this, having alrea
dy advanced within a league of Kirch
heim-Poh, and where Prince Naflati-Weil
bourg resides. His court was obliged tc
move s haftily at ten in the evening, witl
their most precious eifects, and is arrived al
Weilbourg. Spire was taken on the 30tl
and the capture is certainly, at this junc
ture, a molt important if not decifivc
Stroke.
Brufels, Oct. 8. The siege of Lisle i;
raised, and for some days part there has ar
rived at Tournay a conliderable numbei
of carriages loaded with bullets, bomb-
Shells, cannons, &c. &c. which were em
ployed before that place. It appearstha
we have met with lofles in that quarter
though the official publications have no;
mentioned them. In general we are ii
great uncertainty as to the operation:
which have taken place both in France anc
Flanders : But on the whole it is eafv tc
perceive that the arms of the combinec
powers have not met with the success that the
afTurances from the principal emigrants leci
to expect. It is known also, that the de
mocratic party in France hope to propagate
revolution principlesthfough all the neigh
bouring slates. Here we begin to be in
a state of anxiety. The under-hand fer
mentation that a certain party keep up in
the minds of the multitude, encreafmg
with circumstances, orders have been given
for a detachment of military to be station
ed at Antwerp, the centre of difcontcnt.
There is also some fermentation at Lou
vain, and the government will be obliged
to be as prudent as poflible. to prevent the
effect of the idea, that the fate of the Bel
gic provinces depjnils on the fuceefs of the
democracy in Fiance.
Ley den, Oct. it. The editor of the ga
zette, after giving an account of tiie com
munication from Dumourier to M. Ser
van, relative to the retreat of Brunfvvick,
adds, " From the route that part of the
retreating forces have taken in tneir march,
it is probable, that they will tall in with
General de Cultine, at present maiter of
that part of Germany which is on the
Rhine from Spire towards Mentz. The
accounts we receive are perhaps exaggera
ted ; but it is certain, at least, that the late
of war has been very averse to the allied
powers.
Cologne,OQ.. 6. The body ofFrer.ch troops
from Landau, under the command of Gen.
Cultine, after having imposed heavy con
tributions on the Prince Bishop, the Chap
ter, clergy, and citizens of Spire, pursued,
on the 3d inltant, theirmarch for \V orras :
and, as they appear to intend marching
through Mentz, Darmstadt and Frankfort,
to the country of Hefie, the principal in
habitants of those parts have taken flight,
and each puts, as far as he can, his molt
valuable effects in fafety. This day, to
wards the evening, arrived here several
dHtinguilhedperfonages fromMentz and the
environs, a yatcht brought from Coblentz
the military chest of the Pruilian army, the
archives, the church ornaments and other
precious effects, it is said, that the van
guard of the French is already arrived at
Kreutzp.acb.
From Luxembourg, Oct. 5.
The accounts we received from Verdun
are of the 1110 ft disagreeable kind. The
Prussian army has wanted bread for seve
ral days, or what they received was of the
worst kind, for that received from a dis
tance, arrives green and musty. It is
nearly the fame in the Austrian army.—
From our gates to Verdua the country is
laid waste. is ruined and deserted. As, for
four weeks part, it has rained inceilantly,
the roads are impafi'able, they are (irewed
with hundreds of dead horses. By all these
adverse circumltances, the soldier is dif
courageu, and even officers despair of fee
ing the campaign terminate fortunately.
Dublin, Sept. 25. Letters from Lon
don inlimr.te that the British cabinet are
fufpe&ed of looking round for some pre
text to enter into an open league with
these powers on the continent at war with
France, whom they are supposed to have
already privately aided, and that the dis
position of the people has in a more parti
cular manner been founded lince those late
atrocious events have been perpetrated at
Paris and Versailles. Emiflaries have been
busy in representing the fufFerings of a
great monarch now fubjefted to a sangui
nary populace, who have not spared the
molt sacred characters, and his fate with
that of his family, is Hated as depending
on the impulse of this blood-thirfly rabble.
Some of the prints, known to take their
general inipreffions from the inftruttion or
inclination of government, teem with
narratives calculated to harrow the feel
ings of the people, which are said to be
received eitherfrom letters of Englithmen
at present in France, or from the lips of
those who have precipitately made their
exit from that difcraited country. Even
in this city, and through the country, such
tales are circulated as may be supposed to
have a limilar object.
Cork, Sept. 26. Mr. Collis, whom the
Anti-gallican prints lately represented as
inhumanly butchered by women in Paris,
roundly contradicts the barbarous report
in a letter to his friend in Cork, from
Edinburgh, where he has been for some
time—This is one of the many fabrications
intended by these infamous papers, to poi
son the minds of free people against a na
tion struggling for their liberties with a
hydra of tyrants.
The ministerial prints in England are
fiiockingly alarmed at the idea of a French
patriot coming over ; but in our opinion
the liberties of the empire have more to
apprehend from the agents of despotism
and the abettors of llavifh principles, who,
after setting their own country in a flame,
seek fafety under a free constitution, which
they opposed so violently at home.
Paris, Oct. 2. France now resounds from
one end toother with the voice of patri
otism. To live free or die, are the words
in every one's mouth ; and not an indivi
dual but is animated with an enthusiastic
zeal for the defence of liberty. Aged men,
tottering on the verge of the grave, are
inspired with the invigorating found ; their
feeble hands seize the arms adapted to the
vigor of youth, and dispute with them the
honor of serving again!! the enemies of
our revolution. Even the women, who
in all governments have so much influ
ence, are eager to share our dangers ; and
from the force of public opinion only, war
riors and heroes spring, as it were, out of
the ground, the intrepid defenders of the
rights of man, and from whose efforts ar
rises, in time, the emancipation of entire
Europe. Every friend of the human race,
as well as the philosopher who consecrates
his days and nights to thedifcoveryof truth,
begins now to perceive that the face of the
world is changing—a universal regenera
tion, politically so, is taking place among
mankind, clearly proving that the prero
gatives of political equality, are the only
l'oKrce of perfection in the social system.
The king's aunts are still at Rome—Poor
ladies ! —they consoled themselves with the
hope of a rejioration long before the pre
sent day. Whether they will continue at
Rome and Naples, or go to Germany is
difficult to fay. The papal territories are
so overburdened with French refra&ory
prielts of every denomination, that the
court begins to view all emigrants with a
diltant eye, particularly thofeof the church,
conscious that it has holy mendicants en
ough of its own, in all reason, whose
wants lay the tirlt claim to charitable do
nations and penlions.
Madrid, Sept. 28. The introduction of
French newspapers and books into this
kingdom, which had been allowed forfome
time pa'*, is again prohibited. By way oi
precaution, 60 companies of provincial mi
litia. amounting to five thousand men, are
ordered to watch the French frontier, be
(ides fix battalions of troops of the line,6sc
men to each.
On the 27th of lafl month arrived at Ca
di?., (iji veiTels from the Spanish Weft-In
dies, with a cargo of 1,587.536 dollars,
cochineal, indigo, sugar, tobacco, &c. —
Another fliip arrived at Corunna from
Montevideo, brought 2/9,252 dollars, ir
specie.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, Dec. 21.
On motion, the petition of Capt. Wil
liam Mackav was read a second time, and
referred for report thereon, to the Secre
tary at War.
The appropriation bill, for the fupporl
of government for 1793, reported yelter
c'ay, was read twice, and referred to s
committee of the whole house on the 3ill
inflant.
Mr. Moore and Mr. Heifter were ap
pointed, on the part of the house, a joinl
committee for tiie enrollment of bills—
The Senate on their part appointed Mr.
Brown for the fame purpose.
The bill for repaying a loan made of the
United_ States bank, was twice read, anc:
made the order of the day for Mondaj
next.
The house then proceeded in considering
the bill to regulate trade and intercourfc
with the Indian tribes—after some debate
the bill was recommitted to the commit
tee that reported it, together with the a
mendments—An additional motion of Mr.
Gerry's was laid on the table, to the fol
lowing purport —that a clause be infertec
in the bill for authorizing the permanen;
residence of agents with the peaceable In
dians ; and for carrying on a trade witl
the said Indians under the direction of tilt
Prelident of the United States—for sup
plying them with merchandize on fail
terms, and in such manner as to prevem
imposition.
A petition was read from Robert Ral
fton, riflignee of Thomas Barclay, confu
from the United States to the Emperor ol
Morocco—referred to the Secretary of the
Treasury.
The honfe then went into committee oi
the whole 011 the bill to ascertain the fee;
demanda'ble in cases of admiralty proceed
ings in the courts of the United States
and for other purposes—without cominj
to any final decilion on this bill, the com
mittee rose and reported progress.
Monday, Dec. 24.
Several petitions were presented, for com
pensations, renewal of certificates, settle
ment of accounts, &c. which were read
The committee of reference on the peti
tion of John Bartlett, reported, that i
cannot be granted.
The bill for licensing vefiels, and regu
lating the coasting trade and fifheries, wa
brought in, engrolfed, read, and the blank:
filled up—The bill was then palfed to b(
enacted into a law—the act now in force i
to be superseded by this law the last day o
March 1793.
A letter was read from the Secretary a!
War, inclosing several papers, relative t<
Indian affairs, from the Governor of Geor
gia. These papers contain information o:
a recent murder of eight white persons b;
the Indians on the frontiers of Georgia
laid on the table.
A petition was read, from H. C. Baker
an officer in the late continental army
praying compensation for services—also ;
report of the Secretary of the Treasury
in favor of the petition of Udney Hay, foi
payment of the principal and interelt of ;
note for 401. given during the war by twe
American officers, captured in Canada—
A bill was ordered to be brought inpurfu
ant to the report.
The house then went into committee oi
the whole on the bill to provide for reim
bursement of a loan from the bank of the
United States —after considerable length oi
debate, the committee rose and reported
the bill with one amendment —which was
then laid on the table for future conlide
ration.
The following resolution was moved by
Mr. Parker—" That the Secretary of the
Treasury be dirc&ed to lay before the
house an account of the application of the
monies borrowed in Antwerp and Am fter
damfor the United States during the year
1792" —agreed to.
Several memorials, petitions, &c. were
presented, read, and referred.
The house.then adjourned till Wednes
day the 26th instant.
PHILADELPHIA.
December. 26.
On Fridaylaft arrived at Baltimore the
ship Patuyent Planter, from London.—
This ship brought London papers to the
14th of October. They confirm the ac
counts, heretofore publiflied, of the Duke
of Brunfwick's retreat, and of the success
of the arms of France over her invading e
nemies. The following is an extract of a
letter from a refpeftable gentleman at the
Hague, dated O&ober 9, brought by this
vefl'el :
" The gazettes inclosed will inform you
of the bombarding of Lille. A report has
circulated here, to-day, of the Austrian
army having retired from that place. 1
cannot fay whether it is to be depended on.
There being no official supplement pub
lished, according to custom, with the Brus
sels Gazette, indicates, at least, no success
having taken place.
" Another leport, better authenticated,
which circulates here, and which is writ
ten from Brufiels, by the Britifn rniniiter
ther«\ to the ambassador at this place, is,
that the combined armies have been obli
ged to make a retrograde movement, sup
posed to proceed from the absolute want
of provisions—a mortality which had taken
place among their horses, and diseases a
mong their men. If this is the cafe, and
that they Ihould be forced to retire from
France, it will be attended, probably, with
consequences of aferious nature for them
selves, and place the contest in a very un
expected polition.
"The 1 ast accounts from Brussels, be
fore this, were, that the French army was
so surrounded as to have allied to capitu
late. This was so fully believed, that the
government of the Low Countries sent an
express with it to" their minifler here, who
immediately announced it in such a public
and official manner, as to have somewhat
exposed that government, it being now
certain that the details and circumftancec,
as then related and said to have been re
ceived from the king of Prussia, were not
true.
" On the French fide, they state this of
fer of capitulation as an overture of nego
tiation from the Dnke of Brunfwick.
V A letter which I have jult seen, being
the copy of an extract of one from Gen.
Dumourier, at St. Menehoud, to General
Biron, at Strafburg, affirms this to have
been the cafe—a truce had been agreed on,
as he states it, between his army and the
Prussian army alone He adds, "Le Due
de Brunfwickhas spoiled all by fending me
a declaration ; so 110 more truce, as I fliall
announce to him tins evening." This was
the firft of Oftob ?r. He adds, that he had
begun to oppole the enemy with an army
of 17,000 men,andthnthe now had 100,000.
That the Duke of Brunfwick had begun
with 80,000, of which he had already loft
25,000 —and other things of this kind, in
his ffile. Altho' the details of his letter
are certainly exaggerated, yet they serve
to (hew that he is no longer in the difficult
position in which he was in not long be
fore, and which gave rife to the intelli
gence mentioned from Brussels.
" The account you will fee in the Ley
den supplement of to-day, of the French
having entered the empire, may be relied
on—they are aifo in possession of Savoy,
where the people join them, and are for
municipalizing their country. Should
these dispositions pass the Alps, and seize
the lower order of people, nothing will be
able to prevent its ranging all Italy, their
force and number being out of all propor
tion with the people of property, and the
military, and where, in many parts, the
military would probably join them."
The latest Intelligence from Guada
ioupe and Martinico, announce*, that on
the firft of November, every thing there
was tranquil, and the greatest harmony
rublifted between the planters and the ci
tizens, The towiii began to realize the
duration of their tranquility. The pro
duce was at a moderate price.
White fngarfrom 13 to 16 dols.
Brown ditto from 8 to 9 dols.
MolafTes, 2 piftareens a gallon.
Codfifh from 7 to 8 dollars a hundred.
In November the western part of the
iland of Kifpanioia was perfectly reflored
:o peace ; brown sugar was fold at eight
dollars, and mollifies at 50 sols from those
islands the gallon. The provinces north
and fonth fhll presented a fpe£tacle of de
solation ; but the preparations constantly
making, encouraged a hope of the speedy
return of order and tranquility.
We are informed, that it is seriously
spoken of, in the islands of Martinico and
Guadaloupe, to make application to the
Britilh government to take those islands
under the jurisdiction of its laws, if the
new order of things in France fliould be
established.OnTuefday, the 18th instant was ap
prehended at Newark (New-Jersey) and
sent back to New-York in irons, a person
who said his name was Web, and that he
was a native of MaH'achufetts. On exa
mining him, one hundred and sixteen coun
terfeit jo dollar bills, of the bank of the
United States, were found concealed in the
socks of his boots, and the plate on which
they were struck was found on him. They
were exceedingly bad executed, especially
the Signature of the prelident and calhier.
Two of his accomplices were apprehended
in New-York on Monday last.
The Electors of the Hate of Georgia
were unanimous for George Wafiiington,
as President, and George Clinton, asVice-
President of the United States.
A letter from Richmond, Virginia, da
ted Dec. 16, mentions, that "A Captain
Hanly, from the southern territory, on his
march with forty men, to the relief of
Mero diftrift, was attacked by the Indians
in ambuscade. Himfelf and twelve men
fell, on the spot—eleven milling—iixteen
got fafe in."
The public are desired, in a NeW-York
paper, to be 011 their guard in receiving
French crowns in payment, as there are
counterfeits in circulation. Thev are ea
sily detected by rubbing, when the wafn
comes off, and they look like copper.
We hear from North-Carolina that the
Electors of Prelident and Vice-President
for that state, gave a ananimous vote for
George Walhington and George Clin
ton.
On the sth instant the election was held
in Columbia, South-Carolina, for the of
fice of President and V ice-Prelident of the
United States—'The votes were, for
George Walhington, 8, tor John Adams,
7, for Aaron Burr, 1.
We are well informed that Mr. Wig
nel and the new company of Comedians
are on board the Ihip Montgomery, every
hour expeCted at New-Yorkirom Lon
don. There are certain accounts of this
ship having failed on the 14th Oitober.
The following persons are elected re
presentatives in the Congress of the Uni
ted States, from the state of Massachusetts,
J ilher Ames, Benjamin Goodhue, Samuel
Dexter, Artemas Ward, Theodore Sedg
wick, Peleg Coffin, George Thatcher, and
David Cobb.
V ast numbers of emigrant French priests
arrived in England the beginning of au
tumn. Subscriptions were railing for their
relief, and in one day 40001. was collected.
The palace of Winchelter, which is capa
ble ot accommodating eleven thousand per
fons,is fitting up for their reception, where
each of them is to have two guineas a
month for their maintenance.
A new Sail Duck manufactory is now
eltablilhed in the island of Nantucket.—
This manufacture, it is said, furnilhes em
ploy for more people than the five rope
works, and ten manufactories of sperma
ceti candles, which have been of some
years Standing in that illand.
The subscription to the Alexandria Bank
was opened in that town on the 7th inft.
and the whole number of (hares was sub
scribed in less than two hours.
On the 10th instant failed from New-
York for Bombay., the ship America,
Howell. Itisfaid near one hundred thou
sand dollars have been sent to India with 1
this ship.
Every friend of man, and the rational '
rights of man, cannot but rejoice at the '
difapprtintment of the combined royalists
m their late campaign against France.—
Defpotifin never, in any age, avowed its !
principle more directly and operily than in
the daring attempt of these powers to de- |
prive a nation, by violence, of the natural
and inherent right of making laws to suit '
ltfelf, and to eftablilh such a mode of go
vernment over themselves, as they Should 1
lee fit. In this attempt is completely de
veloped the accursed, overbearing nature
ot despotic, or absolute power, which has
hitherto existed by ignorance, imposture, ,
bloodrhed, and devaluation. Like the de
vil, it has b.'en a murderer from the be*
ginning ; and whoever reads the history of
Europe, only, will find from thence, that ,
10 all ages the people have been led to the '
field of Slaughter, either to gratify the im- 1
aginary wrongs of individuals, to glut the y
thirst ofperfonal ambition, and in fad for
almo't every purpose except that of enfu- j
ring peace, liberty, property, and happi
ness to themselves. From the melancholy J"
example of pall ages may the world learn,
that power only, belongs to the people, and
that every individual to whom it is dele- c
gated, ought to be held immediately and '
continually refponlible to them, the foun-
tain of all authority, for the exercise r
thereof; a neglect of which precaution
has given birth to myriads of crowned and °
titled monsters, the disgrace of human na
ture in every century that has parted, and
the bane of nineteen twentieths of the ha
bitable globe, at the present hour.
It is proposed by some perfo-n connected h
with the mint of the United States, in or- t!
der to make the real value of the copper ti
coinage equal to the nominal, and, at the tl
fame time, reduce the piece to a conveni- a
•- er.t fizff, to introduce a fdver flue! of a cer
d tain size in the cosn, thro' a hole in its
n centre, and after this operation to coin it
e so that thenlver ;hall bear part of the im
preilion. The idea is certainly ingenious,
- and the improvement itisfaid, is not dif
e ficult of execution, nor does it encreafe
e the labour in any material degree.
h One objection to this mode of coining
y strikes at fir ft view : whether it might not
y be a temptation to counterfeit, by coin
. ing with studs of base white metal. Per
d haps however, the Silver saved in this way
may not be equal to the expence of coining
and ihen the objection falls to the ground.
[From Salem (Maffachujetts) Dec. u.]
Capt. Thomas Putnam arrived here on
- Saturday from Gottenburg. He failed on
the 22d of Oitober—fome days previous to
s which, there had been no news from
f France, by reason of a delay of the mails ;
s but in the afternoon of the 21ft, several
n polls which had been due came in,- bring
n ing with them important intelligence re
specting the war. Capt. Putnam's imme
< diate departure prevented his obtaining
_ particulars; but he fays, the purport of it
g was—That the Duke of Brunfwick was
FLYING precipitately before the nation
al troops of France, and it was supposed
he would not make a Stand till he was
clear out of the French territories—That
? in one aCtion, forae time in October, the
t despotic army 101 l 8000 men—and,in Short,
r that that such brilliant success was attend -
- ing the arms of France, as men fighting in
the cause of liberty deserved; and such
j disgrace befalling the enemies of freedom,
. as their cause richly demerited. Thisin
, tel ligence was received atGottenburg with
■ too great a degree of pleasure to be con
cealed—those only, whose consequence
' and expectations were founded upon the
perpetuity of hereditary tyranny, were
" chagrined at events so contrary to their
s delusive dreams.
7
[From the Leyden Gazette, of OCi. 12.3
"We are now no longer in any douot
■ as t-o the real iituation of the French and
■ combined armies. Certain it is, that the
. fortune of war has already been infinitely
I unfavorable to the armies of the combined
• powers, as the following extraCf of a let
ter from the head-quarters of the combi
ned army at IValmy, will evince—Oct. ift.
, "We are in a moll wretched country,
where we are in want of every tiling—
. No fuel, and a scarcity even of drinkable
water. Add to this, that our convoys of
provilions have to come a long diltance
round about, by Longwi, Stenay, Buze
-1 ney, Vouziers, &c.—we have also several
strong polls behind us, and the country
people having fuffered much by our pas
sage, are by 110 means our friends. Hence,
our provision convoys are continually lia
ble to be intercepted."—"All our plans
seem to have been ill concerted. The
Baron de Breteuil, after M. Calonne reti
red to Italy, was the minister in whom his
Prussian majelly and the French emigrants
reposed the greatest confidence; but his
fyltems seem to have been so badly digest
ed, that no success could be expeCted to at
tend them. Had he not implicitly relied
upon the most deceitful allurances, we
Ihould never have ventured into a coun
try like this, (provided as we are) which
has a continued succession of strong polls ,
from Lille to the Rhine.''
Mentz, Oft. 2. " General Cuftine's 1
invalion of the German territories, and his ,
capture of the city of Spires, with the im- |
menfe magazines at that place, for the use
of the imperial armies, has spread terror
and consternation through every part of
the empire. Everything has operated a- '
gainst the combined forces, stormy wea- •
ther accompanied with perpetual deluges
of rain—and added to this, famine, and a ,
raging bloody-tlux proceeding from the ;
ule of bread which had become rotten ,
with mould, from the long time it was in 1
transporting to the army."
ExtraCi of a letter from a Member of t
Congress, to his friend in Virginia, dated 1
zdDec. 1792. f
"You will, before this can reach you, i
have heard, no doubt, the Britilh sorry a
riftocratical account of the Duke of Brunf- e
wick's capturing the French army under \
D'imourier; but if I have not loft my dif- f
cerning.fpirit, I will venture to fay that the >
Duke is nearly in Burgoyne's lituation, c
and that a return home is impracticable, r
but under the pretence of withdrawing. r
to open the way for a treaty of peace : or b
on a convention, or capitulation—the for- b
mer he has preferred, and therefore has t
proposed terms of peace, which he knew 0
could only give him a permifiion to return : f
for he mull have supposed, that the Nati
onal Assembly would not listen to any o
terms from an enemy within their coun- y
try. F-or my part, from the day on which F
the French deposed their king, I looked a
upon them as invincible—l knew they r
must have been united or they would not c
have struck so bold a stroke ; and I knew 1<
they would be no longer exposed to the p
treachery of their king, and would have b
their existence as a nation of free men, e
and substantial liberty to fight for—An cb-! ji
•- jest which would animate them to refill
ts all the powers of Europe. I knew Well
it that the gallant French would dispel dan
i- gers, endure hardihips, and disregard the
5, loss of towns and even of their metropo
lis, as much as our countrymen did in thieir
fe itruggles with Britain—and I also knew
that in fucli cases even victory to the in
g fultirig invaders mult often prove equal to
)t a defeat. I remember well the helpless
t- situation of Lord Cornwallis three days
■- after his boarted vidtory at Guilford court
y h°ufe—Twenty pitched battles won, and
:g twenty towns taken by assault, or even by
1. treacherous surrenders, would avail the
tyrants nothing. Freemen will rife up to
revenge the (laughter of freemen, and ty
] rants will at length be hated and abandon
ri ed by their unhappy opprefied fubje&s.—
n Everyday's march has carried the invaders
0 farther from home and from necessary
n supplies, without a profpeft of succeeding
; in their wicked attempts to endave twen
il ty-five million of freemen. Surely the
hand of Heaven has been wonderfully
- ftretcned out in our days, in behalf of the
- opprell'ed nations of the earth ! Let us fe
g con'd tiie designs of Heaven—let us, my
t friend, as v?e cannot join the French troops
and fight their battles, as we once decla
- red we would, should they stand in need
d of affiance, set on foot an aflbciation to
.s fend them supplies of provisions. Cannot
t \irginia set the example of fending as she
e did to Bolton, wheat, corn, and flour ?
France is as much engaged in our cause
- now, as Boston was then—Frenchmen are
:i lighting for the rights of human nature,
h and should they be conquered, the ccmbi
, ned kings no doubt would extend their
- combinations and their views of defpotifin
!i till they would leave no trace of freedom
- on earth."
= irom the combined imperial and royal ar
~ mies in Flanders, dated Oft. 8, 1792.
The bombarding of the city of Lille,
which was begun 011 the 22A of Septem
ber, not having produced, as was withed,
the effect of inducing the inhabitants and
t comnnndertofurrender, and to return to
1 their allegiance to their legitimate fove- ''
a reign, and the season far advanced and un
favorable, oppoling the greatelt obstacles
'l to the continuance of a siege, the body of
troops, which prorefted the bombarding,
b.'oke up, this morning, the camp they had
occupied before that city (ince the 24th of
September, the artillery,of which the am
[ munition had been exhausted in the attack,
[ having previously been sent towards Tour-
P nay.
From the Virginia Gazette*
Richmond. December (s, 1792*
Mr. Carey,
The following impromptu was written
on the report that the ele£tor6 of this state
> in consequence of their having unanimous
ly voted for governor Clinton as Vice-
Prelident, were contumelioufly called la
-1 cobins.
Having remarked and admired, the free
-1 dom of your prels, 1 have submitted it
through your medium to the public.
If any one lhall suppose it personal as to
himfelf, with him you are at liberty to ef
fe£t an interview with the author.
Rejoice ! republicans rejoice ! your in
estimable privileges are secure. The ge
nius of America is awake. The tutelary
faint of Virginia is roused. The electors
of this state have unanimously given their
fuffrages to governor Clinton, as Vice-
President. Governor Clinton is a repub
lican both in principle and practice. The
principles of Mr. Adams, the late Vice-
President, are reprobated—his book—his
writings—his fentinients—his late conduct
—his love of, ind his having recommend -
ed hereditary monarchy, and hereditary
ariltocracy, are all, all reprobated. The
monocrats, aristocrats, highflyers, mulh
rooms, all hang their heads ; and while the
friends of men sing psalms, hallelujahs, and
anthems, to the tune of regenerating free
dom ; they who were conspiring to de
throne the sacred majesty of the people
may perform the last funeral obfequy and
sing the last melancholy dirge to Adamitical
principles.
Yes ! ye itien of Belial, regeneration is
at your heels, and ere long she will hold
you up hated and avoided, as you are now
fufpeited and despised. Your chariots,
your pomp, your gala days, your co'urt eti
quette, your cries of sedition, and your
reproaches against tried republican cha
racters, will not avail. All eyes will
be opened; the fatal ifiue of your a- '
bominable schemes will be developed ; '
then you will hate and execrate each .
other yourselves, as you now deserve it
from all the race of man.
You call the ele£tors Jacobins, as a mark
of contumely ; in that view they despise
you and ask, that a man fnall avow himfelf. 1
But why fay, Jacobins? Are thev not the a
authors of the greatest and most glorious
revolution of which the annals of history •
can bsaft ? Have they not loosed the fnac
lcles of tlavery from thirty millions of peo
ple ? Have they not fanned the sacred
blaze of liberty, in every region of the
earth? Have they not dethroned tyranny,
monarchy, aristocracy, pricftcraft, and all
I their futellites ? Have they not set tip andt
1 crowned the mighty majesty of human kind
- over the punyifai of individuals ? \es !—'
i the Jacobms of France have done all this.
- The French have 110 longer a king ; they
r are no longer slaves ; they are free ; and
r therefore you despise them'.
But future ages, when they trace the
1 history of man, w hen they contemplate the
5 catalogue of woes, which blacken the pa
-3 ges of antiquity, will at this eventful epoch
- make a complacent pause, and drop the
) tear of gratitude to the memory of those
; who so much contributed to emancipate
:* the human race.
> The revolution has blasted your hopes
■ —the kings, or tyrants, of Europe hav&
■ leagued againlt them; and why do you
- not go? The duke of Brunfwick will re
s ceive you—he will embrace you, and you
r will {hew the ne plus ultra of human de
pravity ; Americans aiding and abetting;
kings and tyrants to reduce to bondage
thirty millions of people, whole blood and
treasure were exhausted to purchase your
country's freedom ! Go hence and take
with you the last feed—the last shoot, the
1 alt fcyon of your flock : and let that bold
eflayiif, as your crusading champion, whose
nead, heart, and hand have been employed
to sap the the imprescriptible and defined
rights of his countrymen be announced ttS
kings and their cut-throats, by his herald,
as a voluntary fugitive from a country
where men will cease to be, or live free.
Thanks to yo(i, electors—all the friends
of human liberty will thank you—future
ages will revere and venerate your names
— Heaven and yo'ur own consciences will
reward you. HENRICO.
BALTIMORE, Dec. 21.
Yesterday a numerous and refpeftable
company of gentlemen, Friends to the
Kights of Man, ali'einbled agreeable to no
tification, at Mr. Grant's fountain inn, for
the purpofeof celebrating the late triumpht
;of liberty over despotism, in France, and
j after partaking of an elegant dinner, the
I following toalls were given :
j lit. Fhe nation, the law. and equality £
j a continuance of good news from France,
I and afpeedy and propitious period to their
jprefent virtuous contest.
The duke of Brunfwick's fate to all
other servile leaders of tyrannic flavilh
bands.
3. The national convention of France.
4- The Congref: of the United States,
j. Ihe Preiident of the United States.
9. Stanislaus, the only patriotic king ;
may the Poles be reanimated and enabled
to eftabliih a free constitution.
7* Gen. Dumourier, and the French ar
rily ; may they winter at BrufFels.
8. M. la frayette ; may his future life
correfpontl with that of his past, and with
the patriotism of his heart.
9. Thomas Paine; may every apoftatS
author like Burke, meet an antagonist like:
Paine.
10. Perseverance and fuccefsto' all who
defend freedom with sword or pen.
11. Reformation to the advocates Of def-»
potifm, and deltruftion to its authors.
12. May virtue and talents confound and
consume hereditary honours, ariltocratie
privileges, and all other diltiriiiions un
friendly td the dignity of man,
13. The heroes of France and America,-'
who have either fallen indefence of their
countries, or who yet live, to advance
their glory.
14. May the friendfhip of freemen ever
last between America and France.
15. May universal freedom be permanent-'
ly eftabfifhed under the riiajefty of the
people.
*** No papers yesterday by the eajiern
and/outhem mails, except one f 'torn BaLli•
more, ccntainii.gno frejh intelligence.
Philadelphia & New-York
STAGES,
BY way OF
BURLINGTON, BORDEN!ON, & SOUTH*
AMBOY—
\yiLl, start from Samuel Cooper's Ferry, oppo
fire to Philadelphia, every Sunday and Wed
nesday morning, during the winter season, and
airive at South-Amboy on Monday, and Thurfdjy
evenings—where a good boat will be read) to con
vey Goods and Passengers to New-York.
The Stage boats will leave New-York every
Monday and T hur/day, so «s to meet the Stapes
from Philadelphia at Amboy, to proceed for PiSj,
ladelphia next day. All Baggage belonging ttf
paffergersto be at their own rifijue.,
All Goods forwarded by the Stages on bill, to
be under the particular care of the Pioprietors of
he Stages ; but not warranted against robbery or
damage—And all entering, dealing and permils*
to be paid by the owners of goods.
Price of a paflage from Cooper's ferry to New.
cr k' . " " £0. 18. 91
of Goods, to pay the price of a paffaget
All Way passengers, 3d per mile.
AMOS HUTCHIN, and 7 For Burlinf-
NICHOLAS SCHENCK, J ton line.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN, ? For Borden-'
and DAVID WILLIAMSON, $ ton line.
December 24, 1792. [law.ew.]
PRICE OF STOCKS,
Six per cents. 20/3
Three per cents. 11/10
Deferred, 12/4
N. American -25
Bank U. S.For the National Gazette.
ANTICIPATION.
A GREAT FRAUD.
THERE lived in the (late of Georgia,
an ingenious man named Peter, who
conceived an opinion that he could turn
cyder into good wine ; and set about ma
ny collly experiments until he expended
almofl all that he had earned by other
hard indullry-—Ho%vever, at lad he hit on
the secret, and did actually discover the
art of turning cyder into good old Madei
ra wine ; which discovery greatly elated
him, being fully of opinion that his for
tune was now made, provided he cotild get
a patent for this hi 3 great discovery.-—
Accordinglyi he coliedted the remainder
of his finall estate and set out for Phila
delphia ; and there being at a loss how to
apply for a patent, he communicated his
invention to some that offered to be hi#
friends (particularly to John Filcher) and
they dire&ed him to apply by petition to
the Dire£lor of the Mint. But he was
greatly fiirprifed to find that his friend,
John Filcher, had also petitioned for a pa
tent for the fame discovery ; and a dispute
arose between them, who was the invent
or.—Peter proposed to leave the matter
to three Referees, as diredled by law ; but
the impollor infilled on having it referred
to the supreme court of the United States
.—as the law directs the Diredlor of the
Mint to refer filch difpntes, in cafe the dis
putants cannot agree as to the referees.—
To this mode Peter made (Irong objec
tions, alledging that he could neither at
tend at £t> great a..iilance, nor pay the ex
peuce. The Director of the Mint saw
the weight of Peter's objections, and was
forrv that the law left it not in his powei
to decide which of the modes (hould be
adopted ; for he plainly saw that Petei
would be wronged out of his invention.—
Now, to make a long (lory (hort, the con
sequence was as follows : Peter was not
able to bear the expence of attending the
court, and John obtained a certificate from
the court of Peter's default, which he car
ried to the Direilor of the Muit, and ht
was obliged by law to issue a patent for
said invention tofaid John. The cafe now
is such, that all the sons of Bicchus dc
lionor and congratulate the said Johr
Filch r on account of his great and glo
rious discovery ; and speak well of him in
all their jovial companies. But Peter is
poor and despised—He dare not even afleil
that he was the true inventor of the ari
of changing cyder into good old Madeira
wine, bccaufe he would not be believed.—
Indeed he hath even been heard to exclairr
" Cursed bo the day that I made the dis
covery, since it hath been my ruin ; fc
that I cannot even provide cyder foi
the making of my own wine—and if 1
could, 1 durll not do it without the per
mission of the man who hath robbed and
ruined me ; who now lives in pomp, splen
dor, and plenty, by the profits of my in
vention.*' A friend, to juflice si r[l pub
lifhed this account—and when Congress
heard thereof, they resolved to amend the
patent law, so as to put it out of the pow>
er of John Filcher or any other person
thus to defraud the true inventor agiin.
Those who have read the patent bill,
now before Congress, willgive this accounl
due credit. ARTIST.
From the A. Daily Advertiser.
I {corn the wretch, may vengeance btafl: hisfame ;
Who apes poor royalty in a<st or name.
BEING a cool and deliberate observer
of the various proceedings of the servants
of the people, as well in the national as in
the (late legifiature, I do not beg leave, but
claim the inherent right of a free and inde
pendent citizen, to write, and cause to be
published, through your ufeful paper, the
following impartial and republican senti
ments.
When I attend the courts of juflice, the
tympana of my ears are grated with the
lordly founds contained in petitions, See,
of "To the Worjhipfu.l Mayor," " Hi;
Honor the Judge," &c.—When in the
state legifiature, of—" His Excellency the
Governor," &c. When in that part o;
the national legifiature, to which I some
times have access (for the ma(lers,the peo
pie, are excluded from overseeing theii
servants in the Senate)with that of—" Hi:
Extellency the President of the Unitec
States," " The Honorable member whe
spoke lad," &c. These diabolical term?;
whether in humble imitation of royalty,
ar the tottering remains of a dying arilto
:racy, are surely repugnant to the divine
principles of a republican government !
View the pride of nations, the great focus
of human refinement—the central and glo
rious fpst which gave the firft genuine
birth to the rights of man :—I mean
France. And let us, as I hope it is not
yet too lite, take from her a republican
lesion. There we find republicanism and
democracy, in the mod elevate 1 degree of
pure an 1 uncontaminated perfection. —in-
stead of the ridiculous epithets of—Sir—
Mr.—Efquire—Worfhipful—Reverend —
Right Reverend—Honorable—Excellen
cy, &c. which are all contrary to the prin
ciples of a republican government; and
defpicible to every citizen who thinks for
himfelf, we find the social and foul-warm
ing term Citizen applied even to the firfl
servant of the people, in that sublime na
tion. Let us endeavor to exterminate
every veltige of titles, as being the re
maining feeds of that cursed diltinftion,
that poifanous ariltocracy, from whence
we derived our origin ; so that, not a Tin
gle grain of that baneful weed may be left, tc
germinate in this luxuriant foil of freedom,
to spread its ruinous contagion, among a
happy and independent people.
DIOGENES.
A PLAN or \ PEACE OFFTCE for
the UNITED STATES.
[ From the A. Daily Advertlfcr.~\
AMONG the many defers which hnv;
been pointed out in the federal contlitu
tion by its anti-federal enemies, it is much
to be lamented that no person has taken
notice of its total silence upon the fubjefl
of an office of the utmost importance tc
the welfare of the United States, that is,
an office for promoting and preserving
perpetual peace in our country.
It is to be hoped that no objection wil
he made to the eltnblifhment of such ar
office, while we are engaged it) a war w:tl
the Indians, for as the war-office of the
United States was eilablifhed in the time
of peace, it is equally reasonable that ?
peace-office should be established in the
time of war.
The plan of this office is as follows :
I. Let the secretary of peace be ap
pointed to preside in this office, who fhal
be perfedlly free from all the present ab
surd and vulgar European prejudices upon
the fubjeft of government : let him be <
genuine republican and a sincere chritlian
for the principles of republicanism anc
christianity are no less friendly to iiniver
sal and perpetual peace, than they arc tc
univerial and equal liberty.
11. Let a power be given to this se
cretary to eltablilh and maintain fre<
j schools in every city, village and townfhif
of the United States ; and let him bf
made responsible for the talents, princi
pies, and morals of all his school-masters
Let the youth of our country be carefull)
initrudted in reading, writing, and arith
metic, and in the do£trines of a religion ol
some kind ; the Christian religion should
be preferred to all others ; for it belongs
to this religion excluiively to teach us not
only to cultivate peace with all men, but
to forgive, nay, more—to love our verj
enemies. It belongs to it further to teach
us, that the Supreme Being alone potfef
fes power to take away human life, and
that we rebel againll his laws whenever
we undertake to execute death in any way
whatever upon any of his creatures.
111. Let every family in the United
States be furnifhed at the public expence,
by the secretary of this office, with a co
py of an American edition of the Bible..
This measure has become the more necef.
fary in our country, flnce the banilhment
of the bible, as a school book, from molt
of the schools in the United States. Un
less the price of this book be paid for by
the public, there is reason to fear that in a
few years it will be met with only in courts
ofjullice or in magiftrates'offices; and
should the absurd mode of establishing
truth by killing this sacred book fall into
disuse, it may probably, in the course of
the next generation, be seen only as a cu
riosity on a fhelf in Mr. Peale's museum.
IV. Let the following sentence be in
scribed in letters of gold over the door ol
every house in the United States :
The Son of Man came into the World not tL
dejlroy Men's lives, but to save them.
V. To inspire a veneration for humar
life, and an horror at the (hedding of hu.
man blood, let all those laws be repealed
which authorise juries, judges, flieriffa, or
hangmen to afTume the resentment of in
dividuals, and co commit murder in cold
blood in any cafe whatever. Until this
reformation in our code of penal jurispru
dence takes place, it will be in vain to at
tempt to introduce universal and perpetual
peace in our country.
VI. To subdue that passion for war,
which education, added to human depra
vity, have made universal, a familiarity
with the in&ruments of death, as well as
all military shews, (hould be carefully a
voided. For which reason, militia laws
should every where be repealed, and mili
tary dresses and military titles (hould be
laid alide : reviews tend to lessen the hor
rors of a battle by conne&ing them with
the charms of order ; militia laws generate
idleness and vice, and thereby produce the
wars they are said to prevent ; military
dre!Tes fafcinate the minds of young men,
and lead them from serious and ufeful pro
feffions; where there are no uniforms,
there would probably be no armies. Last
ly, military titles feed vanity, and keep up
ideas in the mind which leflen a fenle of
the folly and rniferies of war.
In the seventh and last place, let a large
room, adjoining the federal hall, be ap
propriated for ttanfacling the bulinefs and
preserving all the records of this oflice.—-
Over the door of this room let there be a
(ign, on which the figures of a lamb, a
dove, and an olive branch should be paint
ed, together with the following inferipti
on in letters of gold :
Peace on earth ; Good nv'iH to wen.
Ah ! VPby tuil! men fcrget that they art brethrenT
Within this apartment let th'jre be a col
lection ofplough-fhares and pruning-hooks,
made out of fworis and spears; and on
each of the walls of the apartment, the fol
lowing pictures as large as the life :
1. A lion eating draw with an ox, and
an adder playing upon tiie lips of a child.
2. An Indian boiling hij venison in the
, fame pot with a citizen of Kentucky.
1 3. Lord CornwaUis and Tippoo Saib.
under the (hade of a fyoamove-tree in the
Eafl-Indies, drinking Madeira wine toge
ther out of the fame decanter.
4. A group of French and Auftr.an
foldlers dancing arm in arm, under a bower
erefte l in the neighbourhood of Mons.
j. A St. Domingo planter, a man of
color, and a native of Africa, Icgiflating
| together in the fame colonial allembly,*
To complete the entertainment of this
delightful apartment, let a group of young
1 ladies, clad in white robes, affe nble every
1 day, at a certain hour, in a gallery to be
' ere&ed for the purpose, and sing odes and
' hymns, and anthems in praise of the bles
sings of peace.
' One of thtrfe songs 'hould consist of the
following beautiful lines of Mr. Pope :
' Peace o'er the world her olive wand ex
tends,
And white-rob'd innocence from Heaven
descends ;
All crimes shall cease, and ancient frauds
shall fail,
Returning jultice lifts aloft her scale.
f *At the time of writing this, there
I exifled wars between the United States
' and the American Indians, between the
. British nation and Tippoo Saib, between
: the planters of St. Domingo and their
' African (laves, and between the French
1 nation and the Emperor of Germany.
CHARLES BITTERS,
No. 120, South Market, near Fourth-Jlreet,
' Has received from New-York, and ma
nufactured by Lot Merkel,
A large and p;eneral aflortment of
Muffs and Tippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
Great Coats, Caps, Mitts and Gloves lined
with Fur, which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lowest prices.
Nov. 24- 2a\vtf
Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, Nat/. 20th, 1792.
THE stockholders of the bank of the
United States are hereby informed,
; that according to the statute of incorpora
) tion, a general election for twenty-five Di
p rectors will be held at the bank of the
United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the seventh day of January
next, at ten o'clock in the forenoon.
And pursuant to the eleventh fe£tion of
f the bye-laws the stockholders of the said
bank are hereby notified to aflemble in ge
, neral meeting, at the fame place, on
Thursday the eighth day of January next,
at five o'clock in the evening.
1 By order of the Prelidentand Directors..
JOHN KEAN, Caihier.
1 ' t. J. 5.
Terres a Vendre
Dans un pais bieti peuple,-—
S AVOIR, foixante cinq mille, trois cens, fo!x
ante et quatorze Acres, en une feale piece,
dans le canton le mieux peuple de la Caroline Me
ridioaale, le Diftiict de Ninety -Six. Ces terrej
font fituees dans une contrce agreable, et falubre,
ou Jes fievres font inconnuesj a environ vingt lieuea
de Colombie, la Capitale, et contigues ala ville
de Cambridge, eu il y a College, et Cour fuperi
eure, A environ douze lieues, i 1 y a bonne navi
gation jet il eft tres probable, que dans quelque
tems on rcndra navigable le Grand SaJude, riviere
qui arrofe les terres memes. Elles font agreable
ment diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons charmans
propres a la culture du tabac, du coton, du maTs,
et du petit grain } et dont une proportion consider
able fe peut aifement convertir en prairies fertilesj
il n'eft peut-etre gueres pollible de rencontrerune
pareille piece de terre a vend.e dans aucun autre
desE'ats Unis ; et pour les conditions de I'ach at
on les rendra tres commodes.
S*informer a rimprimerie de la Gazette Na
tonale. Sept. 5*
LANDS for SALE,
TN a well fettled Country. SIXTY-FIVE
_ THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY. FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in sne
b )dv, in the nioft populous part of the state of
South-Carolina, in the diftritft of Ninety-fix —It
is situated in a fine healthy climate,free from fever
& ague,about fixtv miles from Columbia, the feat
of government. The land is contiguous to the
town of Cambridge, where are a seminary for the
inftruftion of youth, and a superior law court. It
is at prefeat within about thirty-five miles of good
navigation, with a probability of having the river,
called the Great Saluda, that flows along one fide
of the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
fully diverfified into swells and vales, and is per
fe&ly well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and final! grain j a great
proportion of it may be made meadow ground.
The e is not, perhaps, such a body of land, focif
cnmftanced, for file in any other of the U; States.
The terms of payment will be made conveniait sco
the purchaser or purchafeji. Apply to the Printer.
Auguit 29. lawtf
Nevj-Tork and Philadelphia
STAGE S,
AND
Bordenton, Burlington, and Trenton or
Lamberton
PACKETS.
Til E proprietors of the New-York and Phi
ladelphia Land and Water Scages, beg leave
to mention, that for the better accommodation of
the they have removed their different
packet boats from their former stand, at ti»e
Crooked Billet Wharf, to the wharf or do k im
mediately next below Arch-ftieet ; from wi.ence
a convenient packet boat starts for New-York,
as usual, on every Sunday, Tuesday, Wednesday
and Thursday, and retains on every Tuefdav,
Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The pa(Ta<?e to
be macie either by the way of Bordenton or Bur
lington j each place taken alternately.
Fare for paflengers from Phi I ad; to N. York 15\f
For goods per Cwr. do of
Van Emburcjh and M'Kean,
David Williamfon,
Proprietors of the line of New York and Pbiladel
pbia Jiagcs, by the rout of Bordenton.
Jacob Myers,
Amos Hutchin,
Nicholas Schenck,
Proprietors of the tine of New-York and Pbiladel
pbia pages, by the rout of Burlington.
Bordenton, 0&. 1.
For freight or palTage apply to the matters oa
board, or to
M'Kean and VanEmburgh;
Who have for sale at their store on said wharf,
immediately next below Arch-ftrcet,
Old Madeira, Muscovado,
Teneririe, and SWin es . Loaf, and SSugars
Mountain j Lump j
Jamaica Spirits, Mo la fifes,
Antigua, 1 Coffee,
Moniferat & >Rum. Chocolate,
Newbury J BoheaTea,
Rocheilc 3randy Burlington Pork,
in pipes, and Hams,
demijohns, Flour,
Gin in pipes and cases, Bar Iron, See. &c. &c.
Orders for Grain, Staves, Bills of Scantling, or
other Lumber, punctually attended to.
For freight or palVage to Lamberton or
Trenton, apply at said wharf* to Thomas Afli
moore, William Douglafs, John Afhmoore or
Alexander Pouglafs, (Masters on board) or as
above, to M'Kean & Van Emburgh. .
Philadelphia, Odtober 6, 792*
THEperfon who borrowed aSILVER WATCH
last August from a person near this City with
! the letters M.T. (initials of the owners name) in
! cypher, on the outside cafe, the number 4452, is
desired to return it to the printer of this paper,
or he will be advertised in a manner that will be
difgraceful to himfelf#
4t. 2aw*
WANTS EMPLOYMENT,
Either in a Dry-gooi or Grocery fiore —
A young man that is acquainted with both;
and can be well recommended —
Enquire of the Printer.
PRINTED BY
CIII LT> S AND SWA IN E,
: AT THEIR OFFICE NO. 209, HTGH-STRSZT
NEAR FIFTH-STREET,
rHILADILFHIA.