[Numb. 7of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, November 21, 1792.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON, Sep 14.
BY a letter from Paris, we have the
following lingular account : The
Prussian general ordeted the receivcr-ge
neral of the department of Moselle, to
come before him, and render an ac
count of his receipts. This the receiver
did, and the whole being audited, and the
sum in his hands paid, the Prussian general
gave him an acquittance in the following
terms; " Received for, and in ihe name
of the French people, and of Louis XVI.
ting of the Frt nch, such a sum, being the
amount of the taxes received from
i'uch a time to such a time, according to
the decrees of the national assembly, and
for this sum I grant a complete acqu t
tance in the name of the French nation
and the king." A notarial copy of this
receipt he diredted to be sent up to the
general Bureau at Paris.
This very curious fadt seems to prove,
that the invading powers have altered
their fyilem. Instead of the devaflation
and carnage threatened in their manifeflo,
they novt pradtife the molt conciliatory me
thods* and hold out the establishment of
the conllitution, as accepted by the king
in Sep. 1791 If the nation had the
molt perfedt confidence in this offer, so
much asa they infatuated, and so entire
ly under the delusion of a republ c, for
Vvhich they neither have knowledge nor
morals, they would reject this greateil
good that could befall th m. !!!
i/xtra& of a letter from France, brought by
the Mail ofyeflerday, Stpt. 17.
" Things in the capital remain much
as they were last poll ; the flow approach
of the combined aimies gives r'ie to ma
ny and various conjedtures ; their friends
attiibute the flownels of their advance
to piudent well digetted caution, while
their enemies attiibute it to fear of be
ing surrounded, defeated, 2nd cut to pie
ces ; but we have some reason to believe
that it will turn out that the wised coun
cils diredt their operations, and that it
will appear that meafurea of consequence
are concerting that willoccafion an impor
tant change in the affairs of France; in
fadt, the sensible part of the nation, those
■who neither wiQi to fee despotism re
established, nor the reign of anarchy pre
•vail, but who anxioyfiy desire to fee a
liberal government established. such as
will do honour to human nature, are (se
conded by a flrong party) bufiiy employed
in negociation with the Court of Great
33ri ai;i, and that of Prussia, in endeavour
ing to bring about a proposal from those
two courts, to acknowledge the conftitu
tion as accepted and fwom to by Louis
the XVlth. and upon that ground to re
inflate that monarch again upon the
throne of France, and to enter, into an al
liance with the Fiencti nation for the
formation of a government upon the
above principles. It is thought, that
lhculd such a proposal be made to the
national assembly, they would not refufe
it, as it would be grounded upon such fair
principles that the nation would not fuf
fer so glorious "an opportunity of estab
lishing a rational government, to pass by."
&•/>. 20. The Dutch Mail confirms the
report of the fuccefsful sortie made by
the French from Thionville. It fays,
« the besieged display not merely firm'
ness, but thinking themselves out of all
danger of being taken, they insult the
besiegers. and approach even so near, as
particularly to diredt their mufquetry
againfl the camp of the emigrant French,
which is in the centre of the allies. The
son of the Count d'Artois was very near
being killed by a cannon shot; a person
was killed by his fide. The artillery has
played with great effect. The Auitrians
have chiefly exerted themselves to lay
the town in ashes, ir.ftead of attacking it
by a regular liege." ]
By P. FRENEAU: PubliJ/ted Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
The ruling fadtion in Paris has intima
ted in writing to the duke of Brunfwick,
that his attempt to approach the capital
shall be the signal for murdering the king
and queen of France.
The influence of the erftperour and the
king of Prussia over the Diet which is
shortly to assemble at Ratifbon, cannot
be doubted ; and when they declare war
again ft France, they muff by their confti
tntion furnifh an army of near ico.coo
men. Of these the king of England, as
eltdtor of Hanover, supplies 10,000.
A Ruffian lieutenant general is, at this
moment, at the head of a body of Polish
troops, in the grand.Duchy of Lithuania;
the ambassador of that nation regulates
every thing in the capital ; the king and
his miniflers have been obliged to sign all
the declarations presented to them ; and
Poland is bow to all intents and purpo
les, a Ruffian Province.
A considerable number of French emi
grants have arrived at Liverpool in great
diltref;, the liberal inhabitants of that
town, have opened a fubfeription for their
relief, which, we hear, is likely to amount
to a sum, that will do honour to their
humanity.
Letters from Barcelona slate, that five
fail of French ships of the line were at an
chor of Nice, the 24th oflafl month, for
the avowed purpose of bombarding that
place, on the firit movement of -the Sar
dinian troops to join the confederate
army. ,
Sep. 22. Advices received yesterday
from France mention, that it was report
ed that the duke of Brunfwick hid en
countered the French armv under the
command of Dumourier in a'general ac
tion near Chalons, and obtained a deci
sive vidtorv ; near 10,000 of the French
being said to be cut to pieces. War was
declared by Spain against France on the
2d of this month, and Messrs. Rubi, Al
varez, and Dclafey, are appointed to be
his Catholic majesty's generals,
Sep. 25. From the late delay of the ;
duke of Brunfwick, at Verdun, £130
miles from Paris,] and from some other
circumstances, it began to be believed
that he had no intention of marching to
Paris,whatever might behis opportunities,
r his threats. In contradiction to that
opinion are these circumltances, that his
irruption into France was made exadtly 011
that part of the frontiers, which is near
e(l to Paris; that he has taken a road,
where there are the feweft passes ; and
that he has sent back to Luxemburg his
heavy artillery, and whatever might en
cumber his march.
Paris, Sep. 10. 'This country continues
to be drenched in blood ; and the genius
c f this once polished people, seems to
fufftr a gradual deterioration ; theircru*
elty exceeds belief, and they every day
give new and fnocking proofs of their in
genious barbarity. In my last I had oc
casion to mention an order of the national
assembly, for transferring the slate prison
ers from Orleans to Saumur : the banditti
of Marf.illes, whom the sanguinary chiefs
of the capital sent to escort them, receiv
ed and disobeyed the iegiflative and mu
nicipal mandate, marched on to Verfail
!ea, where they arrived yesterday, with
their devoted victims—they led them in
great pomp through the principal flreets,
until they came exadtly oppolite to the
war-office, where, dreadful to teli ! they
put every foul of them to death, withqut
even the formality of a mock trial ! the
prisoners, fifty three in number were all
either bishops, dignitaries of the church,
or officers in the army.
The Savoyards, it 13 said, are deserting
in great numbers from the king of Sardi
nia's army. Nine hundred and fifty of
them, if the accounts may be believed,
went over to the French in fix days.
Brefl, Sep. 24. Mr. la Touche, com
mandant of the Languedoc has sent a let
ter to the marine minister, dated the 24th
of August, at Brest, in which he acknow
ledge, having received his inftrudtions,
and which he has taken every necessary
Itep immediately to put into execution
That he expedted to be ready to fail by
.he 27th at lurtheft, on his expedition,
:nd lipped in the campaign, to give une
proofs of his patriotism. That
he nation might rely on his fervicis, and
that he would fulfil the oath he had taken,
to maintain liberty and equality-, and to
die at his poll.
In confequjnee of the desire of the duke of
Orleans, the eledtoral assembly of Par s
had him re chriitened on the ijth of Sep
tember,the 4 h year of liberty,& the ill of
equality. l'he decree is in fubitar.ee as
tollowsi " Onthe request of Louis Philippe
J'ofph, French Prince, the general council
have decreed, That Philippe Jo
seph, and his pollerity, shall in future bear
the family name of EQUALI i Y (in
French Egalite) 2d. That the garden,
known at present under the name of the
Palais Royal, fnall in fuiure be called the
Garden of the Re-volution ; c
Not a little pa ns has been taken in
France to ascertain the duties as well as
the rights of general citizenship. Marri
age in particular, has taken up no small
(hare of their attention. In the assembly,
several of the molt celebrated orators have
tried to define the word marriage but
without success. In fadt, if it be not a
civil contract, and wholly difconnedted
vnth religion, it is a nullity. The affem
bljr, in their day, have laboured conlider.
'ly to banish from their hymeneal con
tract the ceicmunitb of age aud fortune,
and some other follies, which have hitherto
too much discouraged the matrimonial tie
in that country. 11l a political view,
and with an eye to natural and free repub
lican government, the French assembly
have, possibly, done well in fixing the mar
riage age for men at 16 years, and for
women at thirteen—ln adting conforma
b!y to the didtates of nature and right rea
son, the world will by degrees get rid of
unnatural culloms and governments.
London. To judge of the general temper
of France, we may obferv., that the late
events at Paris have either been every
where received with joy or acquefcence,
or e;fe with indifference or submission ;
for a momentary repugnance, manifefted
in one or two towns and iince retradtcd,
l'crves rather as a confirmation than acon
tradiction to the reft. Among the betier
educated ranks of the people, the judg
ment of many has been changed by a dif
covery of the intrigues of the Court ;
and others, convinced of the fall not only
of arilloctacy, but perhaps of royalty,
fee that ambition hereafter mud roll rt>.
tide in other channels, and therefore re
nouncing the vain attempt of being se
cond in a losing cause, they seek to be
among the firfl in a prevailing one- Bu
it is an imperfedt description of France,
to fay that it is, on the whole, merely in
clined to the present proceedings ; for it
is in general enthufialtic in one particular,
of mott consequence for us to know ; ai:
oppolition to the foreign enemy. Out of
the teeth plucked from that monster,
despotism, folditrs in swarms spring up,
as it were, from the earth, riot armed in
deed as with Cadmus, (thanks to the late
executive government) but eager to fight
without arms, and without cloat'ning —
la villages, where the monarch could not
extradt a single recruit, the present assem
bly finds a troop of them, and every lit
tle town has its Briareus with an hundred
hands, whom no modern Hercules will u!-.
timately be ftifficient to conquer.
If such be the current of public opinion
in France, what can finally refill its force?
The Fiench were at all times mi itary;
and 1110 ft of them are now become doubly
so, from nature and from ingraited passi
ons. The firfl quality in a military man
is to make up his rr.ind to die ; the se
cond is, to adopt the public cause as his J
[Total No. iii.]
own, and facrifice to it his personal com
forts ; and the third is, to be ambitious
to Signalize himfelfj dispositions whica
now seem common among the Fiench,
who have been habitu ted in every quar
ter duting three years, not only io the
expectation, but to the very pomp and
circumstance of wan" Discipline in this
Cdle is soon acquired, and its progress
will'quicken with defeat. The military
fyftcm of the French, if we take it in all
its parts, is inferior to none in the uni
vcrfe. As to generals, since the protes
tant wars, the French, owing to the in
fluence of nobility and favouritifm, Lavs
had none of eminence beiides Marshal
Villars, and perhaps Broglio (each of
whom, it is to be observed, gained their
reputation rga'nft Germans): But France
is now inviting and rewarding merit, tho J
Springing from the lowest ranks; and mi.
litary talents are among those, which soon
est lipen, being chiefly initinftive, and
commencing often with an early youth.
The hoary veteran, however, 110 longer
idly reposes under his laurels, but bursts
from his confecrsted retreat, in order to
lead his fellow townSmen to battle. Ami
if men of fafhion, according to the king
of Pruflia, are chiifly brave, in order to
secure the elteem of those they live
the inferior or iers in France have now a
Similar incentive ; for no where in France
are the people so unfeeling and
as not tcf meet the brave with rapture, and
the dastardly with execration ; and there
is Scarcely a foldierof fpiijt in France
who does not fancy that, by gallantry in
th-> field, he shall I e noticed S.-it- Ly the
national governmental body, and thence
by Europe and polterity. In (hort, the
whole of France is eagerly given to praiSe
an I to blaine ; information if what paS
ses is universally circulated; and the fame
mothers who rejoice at the i ea of their
sons going to fight for their country,
would rather they Should die gloriously
and ufefully, than retreat with d igracc.
In the ranks of battle therefore, if cou
rage and Self-devotion become inflamed its
each by the fight of kindred passions in
others, modern Frenchmen will not be
inferior to the. Frenchmen of former ages.
We need ;fk for no more; tor in the
wars between French and Ge; mans, each
party has been woriled.in proportion as
they have fought farthe.lfn m their home;
whjle immrd ately upon the frontier,
France has coniian'tly had the advantage.
It is of littl-ultimate consequence, there
fore, whether victory so die French comes
in this campaign, or the nez-it ; while en
the fide of their enemies, a prolonged war
will only encreafe tluir burthens. The
only dread of France (and that is tempo
rary) is from its officers ; but whenever
this ceases, either fr-m the change of
perlons, or of Sentiments, the French
in < q >al numbers, will prove at leali the
equals of their enemies 5 for the Ger.
man soldier is »n!y a proud and cold ma
chine, but the French is a warm and fenfi
tiveor.e; and acting numbers arc clear
ly on the fide of France. Till this cereal
point, however, is fettled, and till their
troops are accuftomedto large rroverrents,,
015 French are liable to great diSallers,
and to the effects of the imprtflions arising
from them : but Such events will soon
be loft in the great sum of things, the
whole depending tipoii the inclinations of
the nation.
Warfakv, Sep.. 1. Prince Joseph Ponia
towflci, nephew to the king, thst had tht
commandos the royal army, has, by the
advice of his uncle, quilted thi§ capital
in company w th several r.£ft>lefaen.
Our fttuationis nothing near so bad as
reported. The king by accepting the
confederation of Targovice, has fatisfied
the Empress of Russia, End ive have rea
son to believe that that princefa will let
foir.e of the principle articles of the form
of governmei t, fettled the 3d cf Msy,
1751 j remain ir. fufce.Yranee, Sept. 20. The garrisons at Lifte
are preparing! by reinforcements and by
encreaimg their itores, for a iiege.
M. Dumourier has possession of a
camp, abandoned with much precipitation,
by a large body of Prufliaßs : andfuis pub
lilhed an addrefsto the departments ot Ar
dennes, and the Marne, inviting the inha
bitants to cover all the roads and open
fields with hewn timber ; and has appoint
ed places in the forefts of Argonne a'nd
Ptlargarin, to which they are to repair up
on a iignal from him, to prey upon the
-ftanks of the eneiwy. AM the roads are
now indeed, nearly covered with trees, fc
that the fv.periority of the Prussians in horse
is much diminished.
The following letter from the mayor of
Paris, as to the situation of this capital,
was received by the national aflembly or
Thursday.
'•No movement is perceived. Paris i:
calm. The two individuals accused of ha
ving carried off the chest of the grenadier:
have been tried and found innocent. The
people applauded their acquittal. Tht
sections watch ; good citizens.watch ; the
duty of the patroles is performed with ex
dctnefs; the labours of the camp advance ;
all views and an feiitiments are dire&ei
towards liberty.
The increase of volunteers is prodigious.
Two thousand four hundred now leave
Paris daily; and a greater number woulc
go, but that the meafores taken for theii
accommodation upon the road do not per
mit it."
From several villages every man able tc
bear arms is enlisted and preparing tc
march. The little community of Fonte
nay, has contributed forty men equippec
and provisioned. Two communities defi
led before the national aflembly 011 Thurs
day Women, armed with pikes, begar
the procefflon ; the municipal officers ther
exprefTed at ther bar the civic fen'timents o]
their fellow citizens. One of these com
munities which had already supplied fixt)
men, then presented eighty more.
None but fathers of families remainec
in the village, and if the danger of the
country encreafed, tfiey also would fulfi
their oath, to die rather than submit tc
chains. *
The works of the Pariiian camp froir
Montmarere, as far as the road' to St.
Dennis are much advanced. The lines are
traced as far as Villette. Three hundrec
thousand pounds of powder have been fern
from Paris to the army, and an equal quan
tity remains there and at St. Dennis; se
ven hundred thousand pounds more are
immediately expected, together with foui
hundred pieces of cannon. A veifel load
ed with forty thousand pounds arrived or
Thursday,. which quantity was taken tc
the invalids to be formed into cartridges.
An arsenal is to be formed in the middle ol
the Palais Royal, in which a great number
of cannon will be preserved for all emer
gencies.
The body of M. Beaurepaire, the late
commandant at Verdun, has been brought
frOm that place by the national guards of the
garrison. The national assembly have now
determined, that his remains ihall be in
terred in the Pantheon under the follow
ing inf-ription—
' He prcferreddcath to a capitulation with tyrants.
The family of M Beaurepaire arete
enjoy the penlion conferred upon him foi
his services, and the Prelident of the nati
onal aflembly has written a letter of con
solation to the widow.
The reporter of the committee, b)
whom these measures were proposed tc
the national aflembly, stated that M. Beau
repaire, after a service of 45 years, hac
been promoted to his late rank iince the
revolution. "He was originally (faidhe'
of that class of soldiers, so unworthii)
treated by arlftpcratic pride, but in which,
iince the revolution, we have found only
examples of patriotism, courage and ta
lents."
''lie king and his family continue in the
fma'.l apartments, adjacent to the great
court of the Temple. The king pasTes the
greateli part of the day in the room, where
all th? family meet, or walks and reads ii:
the garden. Mademoifelie Elizabeth doe:
the lame.
Two centinels are conftantlv at the
doors of the apartments ; the king, during
his walks in the garden, is also always ac
companied by two municipal officers*
Another suite of apartments is preparing
for his inaje ry in the court of the Tem
ple, cornpofed o£.an anti-chamber, a bed
chamber, two cabinets, a hall for the com'
miiiioners, and a chamber for the domes
tics, with a cabinet. All the windows
have iron rails. In one of the apartments
is the inf. ription, " Liberty, Equality,
Property, Safety." These apartments are
upon the second floor ; the firft and third
floors will be occupied by the corps-de-garde.
In the ground floor, containing five or fix
rooms, the Prince Royal will be lodged.
The small apartments adjoining the tower,
are destined to Maria Antoinette, hei
daughter, and Madame Elizabeth.
The whole family appear to be in good
health.
On account of a much greater number of
national volunteers than can be, at pre
sent, _ armed, a decree has been pafled, for
bidding their battalions to leave the de
partmentsfor the armies, before arms have
been sent to them.
Victor Broglio has been ai'refted. He
demands to serve as a volunteer in any of
the armies, when he proposes to clear up
all doubts, concerning his patriotism.
"Attached (fays he) to the conititution,
because it emanated from the fovereigr
will of the people, I refpeft this will, which
now maniftfts itfelf by the consent of the
whole nation to the decrees of thg aflcni
bly, and no.person can obey it with more
fidelity than I." ' 1
The adminiflrators of the department o!
the North have informed the alfembly that
they are now railing 20,000 national
guards, all armed and equipped.
A cunliderable part of the Irifii regi
ment of Walfli has been arretted al
Meaux, by two battalions of gendarmerie
nationals, for an endeavour to spread 2
terror of the Prussian arms, and a conli
dence in the good disposition of the Duke
ofßruufwick, through the country.
The Justice- of peace for the feftion
1792, has informed the national aflembl)
of his having pronounced sentence of di
vorce between two persons. This was the
Srft application of the law, which fays.
•' that divorce may be had by the inutua.
consent of the parties, expressed before a
justice of the peace."
Fathers and mothers, who cannot ac
:ount for the absence of their sons fron:
:he country, are ordered to equip two na
rional guards for each absent (on. 1
M. d'Orleans has renewed lrlsrequeft tc
3e employed as au admiral.
, Gen. Paoli has made a tour of Corsica,
For the purpose of preserving order in thai
island.
The Holy Scriptures are of late, in Pa
ris, not treated with that refpeft at
lead, decency requires: The following
decree of the Seßioa de Pnjfonierre will fei
this matter in a clear light—lt is signed by
the Preiident of that section :
" A letter having been read from the
Rector of St. Laurant, inviting the afTem
bly of that feftion to alfift at the funeral
service performed in honor of our brethrer
who fell on the 10th of August last, the
aflembly persuaded that it is at length
time to speak the language of reason, de
creed, the following answer :
The martyrs of liberty, our brave bre
thren, who fell on the 10th of August: have
no need of being excused, or recommend
ed to a jnlt, good and merciful God ; the
blood which they have shed for their coun
try effaces all their faults, and gives their
a claim to* the beneficence of the Deity.
What?— Shall we go and olfer up oui
prayers to the Divinity that he may not
condemn our brethren to the punishment
of eternal fire ! This would be an irifu.lt tc
him ; it would be telling him that he is tht
iliort ferocious, the moil absurd, and the
molt ridiculous of all beings. God, Sir, i:
jufb; our brethren consequently enjoy a
perfect happiness, which nothing can de
liroy : bad citizens alone can doubt it.
Shew us upon your alter-pieces the glo
rious vi&iins of liberty, crowned with
flowers, and occupying the place of St.
Crilpin and St. Eveniin.
Subititute songs of liberty for the abfurc
hymns ascribed to that ferocious David ;
that crowned monster ; that Nero of tht
Hebrews, whose least crime was his ha
ving unaffiliated ahufband, in order that he
might sleep more conveniently with hi;
wife. We (halt then unite with you ir
celebrating together that God, who im
printed on the mind of man inftinft, whicl:
excites in him the love of liberty."
London, Sep. 2-The refpe&ive ambaflador;
from the king of Hungary, and the king ol
the two Sicilies to the British court, have
presented the minister with a note, in the
name of their majesties, representing the
imrninent'danger to the lives of the king
and royal family of France, in the present
circumstances of affairs in that country,
and the apprehensions they entertained of
their being murdered—ln cafe of such at
event they express the with of their ref
peclive courts that the king of England will
grant no asylum to the persons who may
be known to have participated in such a
step. The substance of Lord Grenville\
answer was as follows :—"lt is the king':
most ardent wish that the event appre
hended may not be realized ; but fiiould it
prove otherwise, his majesty will not fail
to take the most effectual measures to pre
vent the obnoxious persons finding an asy
lum in the British dominions."
Sweden, Aug. 15. In consequence of the
request of the late king Guftavus the 111.
that none of the persons concerned in plot
ting his death should be puniihed with
death, except Ankarlfrom, the following
final sentence has been pafl'ed upon the re
maining culprits by the Duke-Regent.—
"The well merited punishment to which
the former Counts Claes, FredericfTon,
Horn, and Adolf Ludvig, Ribbing, Lieut.
Col. PontusLiljehorn, andßaronEarl Fre
derick Ehrenfvard, have been condemned
by the Swedish court of king's bench, shall
be cha/iged into punishment for life, with
the loss of their nobility and all other pri
vileges as citizens, letting them immediate
ly be escorted out of the limits of an in
jured native country, without the le l:
hope of ever being buffered to return to it,
forbidding them, at the fame time, on pain
of the death they have now eleaped, to
dare to make any kind of petition for it; we
leave to repentance and their awakened
consciences the charge of their farther pu
ni foment, convinced that futh corroding re
proaches and guilty lives will be for them
a far heavier burthen than death itfelf.
We hasten also to let tliem immediately be
banilhed, that if it is pofiible the remem
brance of so unheard of an a£t may by that
means be effaced, and which by their de
tention in castles within .the kingdom,
woi#d constantly with new aiHiflion revive
the memory of a misfortune, which with
out any addition is of itfelf fufficiently heart
breaking.—Letthefe criminals, therefore,
immediately and forever withdraw from
the confines of Sweden, whose peace and
happiness they have destroyed ; and to
complete the measure of their crimes, let
them be informed that it was the king, a -
gainrt whose life tljey dared conspire,
who dying has to them and re
turned their own.
"With respect to the others who are
accused of this treason ; because we, in
confeqnence of his late molffacred majes
ty's above mentioned last will and com
mands, are not entitled to mitigate the ri
£or of their sentence ; neither can we, in
a cafe of this nature, permit ourfelf to
follow the innate bias of our heart for cle
mency and mercy, but for this reason con
firm hereby the final sentence of the su
preme court, which ha? been jtift read,
in coafequence of which the counfellcr of
chancery, Von Engeftrom, is deprived of
'.lis port and to be confined for three years;
Major Hartmanfdorff is also tolofe his com
niffion and be confined for one year ; the
oyal fecretarv, Von Kngeftrom, to beftff
>ended from his poll in the college of chan
ery for one year, and major-general Ba
on Vechlin, to be imprisoned during plea
ure, till he is brought to confefi. But the
uftice of peace, Nordell, according to the
entences, both of the court of king's bench
tnd supreme court, is entirely acquitted."
His royal highness was at the fame time
<racioufly pleased to order, that the for
ner counsellor of chancery, Jacob Von
Sngerllrom, Ihould be confined in the castle
)f Waxholm ; the late major Christopher
v'on Hartmanfdorff, in the castle of JVTaI
-110 ; and major-general Pechlin in the
:aftle of Warberg.
Nation tl Lcgiflativc /IJJemlly of France,
Friday morning, Sept. 21, 1792-
M. AUDREIN opened the fitting by a
•eport in the name of the extraordinary
:ommi(lion reflecting the writings found iil
:he Thuilleries and in the house of thein
:enc!ant of the civil lift. A great part of
:hem, he said, had already been publiflied,
and the reft, which v euid throw further
light on the plots of their enemies, were
deposited in the hands of the committee ot
Tafety.
M. Francois said, that in his opinion the
national affernblv ought to terminate its
operations by an ail or' respect towards the
national convention. He therefore pro
posed, that an address ihould be preferred
to the new conrtituent body. "As soon
as it shall be organized (said he) our func
tions will cease, we will then repair to the
actional edifice in the Thuiilerie .to serve
in it as a lit guard, and we will bow before
the sovereignty of the people whom they
are going to represent." He then preferr
ed the following address, which was inia
nimoufly adopted, and M. Francois was or
dered to present it.
To tbr NATIONAL CONVENTION.
" Representatives of the nation, the
members who composed the national legis
lative aflembly, informed that the national
convention is conllituted, have emanated
their functions. They have agreed, at the
fame time, that their last ast, as a body,
Ihould be to wait ujonyou in the national
edifice of the Thuilleries ; to offer to
conduct you, themselves, to the place of
your fitting; to congratulate themselves for
having depolited 111 your hands the reins of
authority ; and to set the firft example of
bowing before the majerty of the people
whom you veprefent.
" We ougnt indeed to felicitate our
selves, in a particular manner, for the hap
piness we enjoy of feeing you alfembled,
because it was in obedience toourvoiccthat
the natiQn chose you ; and because, in
yielding to our invitation, all the primary
aiieuiblies of France have unanimously
sanctioned those extraordinary measures,
which we thought ourselves obliged topur
fue, to save twenty-four millions of men
from the perfidy of one.
"The difficult circumstances in which
we have been since the memorable epoch of
the lothof August, would have doubtless re
quired those refpurces, and that plenitude
of power, which you alone now poflefs.
We have provisionally done away every
thing that the urgent interests of the people
required, without encroaching upon the au
thority, which was not delegated to us.
In ihort, reprefentatives,you have arrived,
inverted with the unlimited confidence of
a great and generous nation ; conimiflion
ed by it to let its external enemies hear the
voice of its independence ; authorized to
enchain at home the monster of anarchy ;
in a situation to remove all obstacles, and
to make every head, without diitinclion,
bend under the protecting and avenging
["word of the law. No pretences are any
longer left for confufion, no objects for di
vilion. It is now the nation which wiftesfor
liberty and equality, and which has ap
pointed you to eftablilb thern upon a
foundation which never can be Ihaken.
" Discharge, representatives, your im
portant duties ; realize the promises which
we have made in your name ; and may
the French people soon be indebted to you
for three gifts, the firft and the molt valua
ble that heaven can bestow upon mankind,
l.ilxrly ! Laws ! Peace !—Liberty ! without
which the French people can no longer
live !—Laws which form the niolt solid
bails of liberty—and Peace which is the
nnly object, and the only end of war. —
Liberty! Laws! Peace! thefethreewords
were inscribed by the Greeks on the walls
i>f the temple of Delphos. You will im
print them with indelible characters on the
whole furface of the territories of France
---and each of us, when we return to our
respective departments, will every where
iufpire confidence in your wifdoili ; refpett
for the exiftinglaws, in expectance of those
which are about to proceed from your tu
telary authority ; fubmiflion to the free and
popular government, which you are about
to eltablillv; and the mo ft lincere wilhes for
maintaining among all the parts of this ex
tended empire, that unity, of which your
augull aflembly will ever be the common
center and bond of connexion."
After this address was read and approv
ed, a deputation from the national conven
tion having entered the hall, their spokes
man said,
" The national convention has sent lis
to inform you, that they are continued,
and that they are going to repair hither,
10 commence their fittings."
M. Francois, who was in the chair, in-
Fonned the deputation, that the national
egidative alfem'oly had just decreed, that
they should proceed in a body to the Thu
lleries, to serve as a guard to the conven
tion. All the members immediately rose
up, and thus terminated, after the exist
ence of a year, the national aflembly, un
der which the French nation marched with
jiaut strides towards republicanifin.
AbstraCt of the most material proceedings
of the National Convention or France, at
at theirfirft feflion, on Friday the' 21ft of
September.
The Prelident of the convention, (M.
Petion) having caused the proces-verbal of
the proceedings of the national convention,
in constituting themselves, to be read, a
debate took jjlace on the two following
proportions, from two different members .
ift, " That the preifctent fliould reffde in
the national palfke ; that he ftiould be pre
ceded by the badges of the law ; and that
when he entered the hall, the people jhould
always honor the national sovereignty, re
presented in his person, by rising up " The
other propoiition was, 11 that the cdnven
tion, inverted with the sovereignty of the
people, Ihou'd begin its proceedihgs by a
grand ast of that sovereignty ; the annihi
lating, in their name, all those authorities
which fubilft in the empire, in order that
the power may revert to the people."
Those propolitions were oppufed, on the
principle, that new diftinitions ought not
to be adopted in an aflembly tfiat had dis
carded kings and nobility—" there will
always (said a member) exist a power o
ver which you have no ri^ht: it is that of
the people, who can ex m rife it whenever
they please. Let \n- reform then those an
cient abuses which t>: constituent aflem
bly gave rife to, and declare that we invite .
the French people, in thejeftioils or aflem
blie:i of the commons, to ratify or reject
those decrees which we pass." After va
rious propositions, the convention pa fled
the following decree
" The national convention declare,~that
there can be no conltitution but that which
is accepted by the people. They declare
also that persons and property are under
the protection of the law ; that they will
afterwards concert the mode which the
trench people at large lhail pursue to ma
nifeft their opinion refpefiing that cdnfti
tution which fliall be prcfented to them."
Upon a that the existing autho
rities (hall be maintained, proviiionally, in
the exercise of their functions, till further
orders, it was decreed, that those laws
which have not been abrogated, and those
powers which have net been suspended,
ihall be provisionally preserved and sup- -
ported ; and that the t.-r--.es afhially exit
ing fhaU be collected as formerly.
The next decree pafled was, the Aboli
tion of Royalty, or Kingly Government in
France; to be proclaimed through Paris
on the 22d, and ordered to be sent
throughout the nation by exprefles. A de
putation was then received from the Com
mons of Orleans, relative to their suspen
sion of the municipal officer: , for encoura
ging the transportation of corn out of that
district, to the great danger of Starving tins?
inhabitants. This ffcp had formed the
place into two parties, who were upon the
point of proceeding to hofliiities ; the af
filtance of the convention was therefore
requeued; and that they would confirm
the proceedings of the commons of Or
leans. The convention decreed, that
three coinmiflioners from their own body
should proceed to Orleans to procure in
formation on this fubjeft, to be laid beforethem ;to a:t difcretionaUy for the recto- t
ration of tr-anquility, and to call in the aid
of the military, if necessary. The ques
tion was then agitated of renewing the ad
ministrative bodies, lome of which were
accused of corresponding with tlie enemy.
The following motions wefe then made,
i. That all citizens of the republic of
France, indifcriminatelv, are eligible to
vacant places. 2. All the members of ad
ministrative and judiciary bodies, now in
the exercise of their functions shall be
changed. After a variety of debate, the
convention decreed. That all judges may be
• chosen, without djhnSion, Jrom among the citi
zens.
For tlje National Gazette.
i THE late serpentine wreathing and
twiftinjrof certain men, toextricate them
fclijes from the present infamy, and the
certain execrations of posterity which a
wait their measures in government, is as
jjCiamefui as the conduit which gave birth
them was corrupt and abominable. Is
there a fool in this country so stupid as not
' to know, that the debates in tile federal le
gislature, and the free discussions in the
public papers, have been directed against
measures and not against men ? was it a
matter not worthy of notice or discussion
that a debt of a hundred million of dollars
fnould be Tci-aped together out of the old
continental money and certificates, a great
part of which had actually been called in
and funk by the old Congress and the se
veral states ; and the country now laid
under intolerable burdens of duties and
excises, to pay a quarterly intereit on it—
that continually increaling—and withal so
curiously cooked up, that the whole (hould
go into the hands not of those who had de
served it of the country, but merely to re
cruit janifaries devoted to support perfas et
, ?!ejus, the champion of these measures, while
the officers and soldiers, and other mod
meritorious public creditors, are left en
tirely unprovided for ?
Time, that steady and cool interpreter,
has already begun to do his work, and
much sooner than was expected discloses
these transactions in such a light, that the
authors of them turn away from the light.
The constant iing-fong of their only apo
logist, that champion of an impartial and
independent press, for several months, was,
" Oh these antifederalifts are trying to
overturn the government ; these measures
and federal governmeut are the fame thing,
and whoever opposes them is an antifede
ralift—Oh these antifederalifts 1" But
when, on looking over the whole country,
it appeared that almost every man who had
not been corruptly purchased, and par
took of the public plunder, was SUCH
AN ANTIFEDF.RALIST, it became ne
cefla'ry to drop that itorv ; and the migh
ty apology now is, " one of the heads of
departments is envious against the head of
another department. Oh, what a vile
thing is envy ! If that individual was not
envious at the other individual, all Con
gress would think, and all the country
would think, that the imports and excises
were very light, would be glad to fee that
they were devoted forever to the purchase
of a monied aristocracy of foreigners, fu
gitives, and speculators ; that nothing was
left . protect the butchered frontiers, and
that the officers, loldiers, and others who
had devoted their property and their lives,
as the purchafeof our independence,fhould
be forgotten, and their dependents perifti
in indigence 1"
Nov. 19.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Frtday, Nov. 16.
This day, the business of t he hotife being
of a private nature, the dooi s were not o
pened. On Saturday, the .house did not
meet.
Monday, Nov. 19.
A bill was sent from the Senate, for
regulating foreign coins and ot! ;er purpo
ses," which h'ad palled their house—read
i t\\ ice, and made the order of tlie day for
I Monday next.
1 papers were received from the
S' >tary of State, containing statements
1r 11 the trustees o£ the fund for reducing
.£ public debt, in purfuanct; of an ait of
Congress.
Several petitions were read , praying for
renewal of certiiicates, compensations for
services, <lc. which were reajt and refer
red.
A memorial was laid before the house,
from the people cal'ed Quakers, respecting
the Indian war, and fuggeltirig the imp -r
tance of an inveftigat:ion of ttie grievances
of the Indians, and the necefiity of making
peace with them on juit and reasonable
terms —Laid on the table.
Mr. Williamfon mo ved for the appoint
ment of a committee to take into confide
ratiou the belt means ot encreafing the
number of American f :amen, and to report
a bill for the relief o^' lick and infirm fea
rlien—\\ hich motions 1 ? ere agreed to, and
a committee according ly appointed
The report of the Sei s-etary of the T rea
'ury on marine hoipit els, and of a (elect
committee on the. fame fiibje£t, were also
referred to the above committee.
A motion was made by Mr. Boudinot,
that a committee be appointed to prepare
and report a bill, providing for a regular
system of bankruptcy throughout the Uni
ted States.
The house then, in committee of the
whole, according to the order of the day,
(Mr. Lawrence in the chair) proceeded
to the consideration of the Prelident's
speech, paragraph by paragraph—The fol
lowing refomtions were moved—That it is
the opinion cf this committee, that provi
iion ihould be made for the widows and
orphans of those persons who may have
been killed while under the protection of
flags of truce to the Indian tribes—which
| was agreed to.
On the paragraph of the speech relative
to the intercourse with foreign nations,
Mr. W. Smith moved a resolution to this
purport—That proviiion ought to be made
tor that object. This resolution was a
greed to.
The paragraph relative to the foreign
loans being read, Mr. Fitzfimons proposed
a resolution to the following purport : —
Resolved, that it is the opinion of this
committee, that measures ought to be ta
ken for the-redemption of so much of the
public debt, as by law the government has
a right to redeem ; and that the Secretary
of the Treasury be directed to report a
plan for that purpose.
The house adjourned before any decisi
on was made 011 thia resolution.
—
PHILADELPHIA.
November 21.
We learn by a late arrival from Cape
i Francois, that the colonial aflemblies there
are abolimed, and ail pubiii business done
by twelve commifiioners, fix of whom are
| white, and" ,'ix mulattoes; who are to con
ti'uie to transact business till a new
afeiTibly is chosen.—Times continue trou
| blefome—the negroesburn all intheir pow
er—produce very scarce, except coffee.
' '* The advocates for despotism are em
ployed, even in America, in difTeminating
every species of detraction and falfehood,
■ t against the brave and virtuous people of,
France, now struggling for freedom and
| independence.
, In al 1 . we have read refpefting the nati
onal afiembly and their proceedings, we
have no more reason to entertain an unfa
vorable fehtiment of them, than they had,
tin the ccurfe of tile late American war, to
believe. that we were (as often represent- >
j ed) acting the part of savages or of iawjefs
j abandoned rebels.
General Burgoyne's proclamation, dated
I camp near Ticonderoga* July 2. 1777, will
serve to {how how men even of fine abili
' ties, and in exalted stations .will mifrepre
i sent. It ought also to (how to Americans
; the impropriety of too hastily judging, with
i regard to the people of France, when they
themselves have been so recently and with
so little truth, held up to the world as in
cendiaries. and murderers." £Fed Gaz.]
Died on the "th of October last, at his
| feat, Gunfton-Hall, in Fairfax county, Vir
ginia, Col. GEORGE MASON,in the 6-th
j vear of his age.—The following is an ex
tract from his will, lately admitted to re
cord : "I recommend it to my foris, from
my own experience in life, to prefer the
happiness and independence of a private
ft'ation, to the troubles and vexation of
' public business ; but if either their own in- ,
clinations, or the neceiEty of the times I
should engage them in public affairs, I
charge them,on a father's blefling, never to.
let the motives of private interest or am-'
bition induce them to betray, nor the ter-i
rors of poverty and d.fgrace, or the fear
of danger or death, deter them from af
j ferting the liberty of their country, and j
| endeavoring to transmit to their posterity
those sacred rights to which themselves
were born."
One of the arguments advanced in favor
of keeping (hut the doors of the Senate
chamber of the United States, by the ad
vocates of the measure is, that were they
opened the members of that body would
Lie too much under the temptation of
courting popularity by directing their
! speeches more to the gallery than to the
; house. But fin ely, observes a correspond
ent, if that illurtrious body is so much in
fluenced by popular opinion as to disguise
their real sentiments, to please a few ad
ventitious visitors, they are unfit to decide
upon any question important to the welfare
of the union. If they have not courage
enough to submit their deliberations to the
immediate eye of the inhabitants of an en
lightened city, and to have their opinions
publilhed for the information of their coun
trymen. they must be inadequate to the
talk of concurrent legislation. What se
curity can the citizens of America have
for the faithful discharge of the trust com
rr,itt d to the senators. v.'hen they are o
bliged to lock themselves up in order to
declare those sentiments which they are a
fraidto avow in the face of their constitu
ents ? The people certainly are competent
judges of whatever concerns their interest,
and if a measure is carried prejudicial to
the union, though the people may difap- (
prove of it, yet the individual refpon!lbility
of the senators is deltroyed while their'de
liberations are conducted in secrecy. We
may perhaps from the general political
opinions of a member guess what meafnres
he has advocated, but we canjaave no cer
tain information. [_Gen. Adv-~]
*
At a meeting of the Officers of the Militia
from the city and liberties "of Philadel
phia, at ,the house of Michael Kitts, on
the 15th of November inft. agreeable to
notice, in order to receive the report of
their Committee, appointed on the 20th
of August last,
Col William Williams in the chair.
Col. She', from the committee preftnted the following
Rfport :
THE Committee appointed on the 20th
day of August, by the militia officers of
the city and di triifts of Philadelphia, to de
signate the characters to whom refpe£t
ought publicly to be shown, with the time
and manner molt eligible to manifelt that
attention—to determine the order of fu
nereal processions : and to report on such
other fubjeits, as had immediate relation
to t iem'in their military capacity; with
deference fubinit the "folio wins resoluti
ons :
ilt. That the characters to whom it is
incumbent to manifelt such attention, are,
the President of "the United States, and the
Governor of the state.
id. That the time of presenting our re
flects, shall be on the anniversary of those
days, on which happened events, atifpici
ous to cur riling empire.
3d. That as long as this city shall conti
nue to be the feat of the general govern
ment ; we witl annually wait on the Pre-
on the 4th day of .July; in comme
moration of an era. at once propitious to
our country, and glorious to him who so
eminently contributed to its eltablilhment
For this purpose we will assemble at the
state-house, at eleven o'clock in the fore
noon, with fide arms, and in the uniform
or our respective corps. The governor on
such occalions to be requested to precede
us.
4th. That at'the fame place and hour,
and in like manner equipped, we also will
annually assemble on the second day of
September, being the anniversary of the
; adoption of the constitution of Pennsylva
nia, and felicitate the governor 011 an event,
which, whilst diffuling happiness through
the state, gratifies him in the means of be
coming more extenfivc-ly ufeful to its citi
zens.
sth That the order of procession in ei
; ther instance shall be regimentally confor
: mablv to the rank of battalions and corps.
<"th. Th t upon the dea'hof aiiy couimif-
I honed officer of the'militia afortfhid, the
commandant of the corp, to which he be
longed, shall, if agreeable to the connec
tions of the deceased, cause written notice
to be given of the fame, to the several
commanders of corps ; mentioning the
place from whence, as well as the hour at
which the funeral will depart He like
wise will cause to be publilhed in the ga
zettes, an invitation to the officers, con
taining the foregoing information, and re
quelting their attendance. The officers of
the regiment or corps to which the de
ceased did belong, shall. if fufficiently nu
merous, be the bearers of the corpse ; but
lield officers are to be borne by those of the
like dcf,.ript'on In ail processions of this
natu re, the officers of the youngest regi
ment.; and of that, those of the lowest
grade' are to take precedence, and succeed
immcidiately to the
| 7th. That, with a view to add to the re
fpecia'j le appearance of the miiitia, we
.will upon our reception of a commission
therein, pt-ovide ourselves with the uni
form of the corps, to which we may be
long, aad will appear at all times in the
; fame, wl'ien on duty, or when attending
i proceffioi is.
Which being conlidered by paragraphs,
was unaaiimoufly adopted.
Ordered, That the foregoing proceed
ings be published.
Wm. WILLIAMS, Chairman.
John Smith, Sec'ry,
The following judicious reflections on
the Indian war, are extracted from the
Federal Gazette of Monday :
"Can the people of these states, who
have so lately struggled against tyranny and
conqurjl wish to press both into the heart of
a country free from such horrors, and that
with the poor pretext to establish new
boundaries to the westward, when the ri
ver Ohio by its extent and situation is the
belt, we can wish ? Are we in such extreme
want of many millions of acresofearth tbr>t
we are obliged by necefllty to aim at a forced
acquirement of them ? If we mean to be
come a warlike people, and with thefword
and the torch, to reason the reft of man
kind out of their liberties and lands, let us
put a better Jhmlder to the wheel—and Ihew all
the martial energy of which we are capa
ble, and let us avoid the mortification of so
repeatedly hearing of our western defeats!
A trifling plea of necessity for the purpose
of giving elbow room to about three millions
of people, Who inhabit a country capable
of affording a comfortable space to more
than one hundred millions, can have no
! foundation iri common sense ; so far from
it, that one may presume, a diminution of
territory would rentier our frontiers mere
defensible, and of course our fituatioil more
fit?. Jn this age\)fphilofop'iy and per
fettion of human uuderftandijig, nations,
like individuals, muit bexealoirs of acqui
ring polTefiibms, to which honor and jultice
would aloue entitle tuem. When Penn
sylvania wanted more territory, die has
always bought and paid for it by consent
of parties.
Public agreements, we find, have been
made between the western savages and
their European neighbours at different pe
riods of time ; if we have acquired our so
vereignty of the feat of war, by any r-f,
those treaties, let them be know n to the
world, that the public may be faristied, and
pay with chearfuinefs a double taxation,
the half of which is now paid with reluc
tance and distrust. It is said that by the
peace in the year 1782, Great-Britain gave
to the United States an immense tra£t of
Indian country which had been giveft by
the French to the Engliih by the treaty of
-1763; but who has informed us fri!m
whence the French derived their right of
poflellion and sale ?
Who were the Indian Chiefs that ceded
that territory ? and was the ceilion well
understood and duly authorised by their
several nations ? because in every bargain
the right of polleSlion and sale as well as
the capacity of the buyer ought to be con
sidered ; an acquaintance with filch origi
nal Indian grants would give us a juSt idea
of our real boundaries, and Should put di
rectly an end to our contention ; until the
acquisition of such knowledge, \v e must
presume the French and English had only
a permission for the fur trade, and what
add.-: onw conviction tor that suspicion, is,
that the Indian nations have always been
in possession of that country north weft of
the Ohio and that part, by tradition, has
been constantly called the India;: .ountry.
If this war i-i carried 011 M'lthout pure mo
tives of jultice, the public aver ion will
encreafe daily, and the people will be in
duced to fufpeft it is only a pretext of our
government to eltabiilli oppression and
Slavery, as it has been practised in all times
and in all countries where armies i,nd tax
es engendered despotism, a menfter which
it is hoped this country i yet too young,
and too innocent to bring forth. "
f Promt he Bojlcn Ce ntmel.~\
At the date of our latelt , uropean ac
counts, M. la Fayette was Still at Naraur,
a prisoner to the Duke of Brunt wick, who
refufes to parole him Hisl..dy is 111 Eng
land.
The combined armies Under the Duke
cf Brunfwick, amount in ali to 130,000
men. Verdun at which place th- Duke
was, the joth Siptember, capitulated the
ad September, itsgarri-fon was 3500 nun.
Verdun is between Par.s and Thionville.
Mr. Thomas Paine and E'r. Priest y [net
his son] are choren members of the French
national convention, lor trying Louis
XVI.
011 Saturday lalt, the Bu(t of Liberty was
removed from the Hall of Congress, and
placed without the door >11 a recess hither
to appropriated to the reception of certain
Queen's-ware vcfts, for the private accommo
dation of the honorable members. On this
occasion we have received fron 1 orref
pondents the two following ; pigrams —
OUR Congress, in less prcfpercus days
rever'd
Fair Liberty, who Shields Columbia's
lhores ;
But noV, that high their tow'ring crests
they've rear'd,
In scorn they kick the Goddess out of
doori.
WHAT ?—not content with pulling down,
Fair Liberty from her d tlat; .n,
Our Congrefsfiich contempt have Shewn
For HER, the guardian Goddess of the
nation,
They've thrust her, where, with foul dif
. henor,
They mean t'infult—and p— upon her 1
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Six per cents. 31/ i
Three per cents. 12/4
/ Deferred, 1 $J4
N. Bank Stoxk 42
N. American Bank, 34
"Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, Nat/. 2cth, 1792.
r ftockhclders of the bank of the
*. United States are hereby informed,
that according to the Statute of incorpora
tion, a general election for twenty-five Di
rectors will be h>.ld at the bank of the
United States in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the Seventh day of January
next, at ten o'clock in the forenoon.
And pursuant to the eleventh feition of
the bye-laws the Stockholders of the said
bank are hereby notified to ?lTemblf in ge
neral meeting, at the fame place, "on
Thursday the eighth dsy of }ar.u; ry next,
at five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the President and Directors..
JOHN KEAN, Calmer.
t_ 1 5.
For sale, at the printing office, a ftiv copit
oj thejirjl vohitne of the Rational GazetuAddress of M. La Fayette,
To the A R Mr,
Which be lately commanded.
" AT a time, when after having con
curred in two great revolutions, I enjoy
ed ia retirement the fucctfs of my con
llant efforts for the cause of the people, tiie
dangers of the country snatched me from
a private life : I came in the midst of the
applauses of the ration, to command the
army which the king hid entrusted to me ;
and the National Afftmbly deigned, by
the organ of its President, to fay to me,
• We op ofe to the enemies coalesced a
gainlt us, the Conili ution and la Fayet e. 1
Since this period you have had the means
of judging of me. Your confidence (hewed
me that you approved my conduct; youi
friendfhip answered to the tender attach-
which I had vo«ed to you. Happy
to defend :n the midst of soldiers dear to
my heat.", the principles to which my
whole life has been consecrated, and the
conltitution which the national sovereignty
gave us, I found in this resistance of a fiec
people to so many efforts re united against
them, every thing that could fatisfy my
opinions and animate my ze 1.
"You will remember, I fear, with un
eafmefs, that a turbulent faction, whose
movements appeared to me to correspond
with those of our exterior enemies, endea
voured to deprive us of that which makes
the force of a free people, refpeft for the
laws and fidelity to the conltitution, which
in this moment seemed to me to be out
only point for rallying. My conduit was
known to, and my opinions were shared by
you, my tranknefs animated more and
more against me all the enemies of the
conltitution ; but whatever were their ef
forts'and their m naces the National Af
fembiy by a majority of two thirds, re 1
pulsed their ablurd accusations heaped up
againll - e. You know th..- violences of
fered the next dayto the national assembly;
those exercised on the 10th of August a
gainit the kin : the Itate of Paris at the
moment when the suspension of the king
Was .•-reed; the murders, the profcrip
tions wiiicii took place, not only during
the battle of the Ttiuilltries, but even du
ring the following days I refer in this
relpeft to the decrees ot the department of
Ardennes a d of the muriicipa ity of Se
dan and to the few accounts which were
fuffered to pass, while all the papers, de
voted to the Jacobin party, were circulated
with profulion. It was evident, that the
measures taken on the roth of Augtifl
were contrary to the Conflitution act.
and that they were forced from the Na
tional Ass m ly. Ihis conviction guided
my conduct.
Ihe administrative bodies and the mu
nicipalities required you to renew the civic
oath ; the cor.ftiiution has determined thii
oath, and ordered you to obey the requifi
tions of the constituted authorities. Il
was with regret that I saw a part of the
army so far from the fulfillment of this
duty, that I would have spared them the
evil of refilling. The pains taken to ca
lumniate me in your opinion have succeed
ed so far as to alienate apart of your con
fidence Oil the other fide, the commif
iioners ot the National Assembly, who had
accepted, on the ioth of Augulf, the exe
cution of the decrees which viol nee had
snatch g from them, deprived me of part
of my command from Dunkirk to JYlau
beuge ; and they proposed equally to def.
titute me • f that which united me to you,
and to renew against me those accusations,
which neither the assembly the juries or
the judges, were any longer fiee to decide
upon, in the state to which violence had
reduced them.
" In thele circumflances, and when the
present faction directs itfelf principally a
gainst the authoisofthe revolution, against
the true friends of the conltitution, I cea
sed to be deltined to fight at your head,
and I could no longer hope for an ufeful
death. What remained for me to do ?
To remove from you a eneral whom you
would be forbidden to obey, and to pre
serve to liberty a defender, whose inflexi
bility has merited for him in this moment,
the honor of being proscribed. I feparau
myfelf, therefore, from you ; I fepnrate
myfelf with a fen iment of grief, which it
is, at least sweet to pour into the bosoms
of those my companions in arms, who have
preserved for me theiu affection. I took,
before setting out, all the measures whici.
could answer to me for your fafety ; and
I go far from my country, where a party
reigns which proscribes me, far from the
enemies coalefccd against us, and whom I
hoped to combat at your head, to taste in
my retreat, the-conlolation of a pure con
science, and to form ;irdent wishes for the
triumph of French liberty over all the fac
tious who feck to enslave it.
(Signed) La Fayf.tte."
This address was certified to the Eiitoi
of the Leyden Gazette by fix officer:; ol
M de la Fayette's late etat major, who
left Fra nee with him. but who have been
rcleafed from the prisons at Luxembourg,
He is It ill in that fortrefs with M. M. la
1 uiir Maubourg, Alexander Lameth and
Bureau Puzy, who appear to be diftin
juilhed by this rigour on account of theii
laving been members of the co'dlituent
lational assembly of France. In their
ourney from Nivelie3 to Luxembourg]
in A'lflrian officer fat in the carriage with
*ach person, and 30 huflar* escorted the
3arty with pistols, & swords drawn.
The oilier prifone 8 remain for further
orders, either at Niv-lles or Luxembourg,
PARIS, Sept. 14.
THE following is the account of tht
ate attack of Thionville on the sth anc:
sth of September, and of the refiflance
>f the gsrrifon, dated in a letter whiel
VI Merlin read in the National AflVmbl)
>11 Friday lad, and the authenticity o.
which he warranted.
'• The enemy hadere&ed their batterie:
lear the chapel of Sainte Anne, betweer
he Luxemburg gate and that of Metz :
n a irnall plain, which commanded tht
ort above La Hauteguge, on the right
sank of the Moselle. The troops station.
:d to defend the fort, perceiving that the
Miemy were endeavoring to throw up
.vorks, and to form a trench, with a view
if eltablifhing their batteries in the spot a-
Dovementioned, agreed to fuffer them to
aroceed, untill a favorable opportunity sot
nlerrupting might occur. The beiieged
jeing informed that the enemy meant to
jive the signal of attack by firing a gun,
waited patiently till midnight, each of the
:annoneers lying down by the fide of their
juns As soon as the besiegers gave the
io'fial; their batteries began to play, but
heir fire continued only a quarter of a.:
lour, during which time three shells fell
n the town, one 011 the parish church, an
ither on the house oFM. Henrion, in the
;rand flreet, which did no damage; and
he other in the third story in the house
)f M. JcfTc, iu Hofpital-ft reet, which de
troyed the furniture, and set fire to the
jed.
'• At the end of a quarter of an hour
he batteries of the town and fort, light
ed by fire pots, played for three hours.
1 he firft discharge, which was with lang
■ldge, killed many of the enemy, who
lad advanced in order to attempt an ef
:alade, and this fire obliged the ..ffailants
:o abandon the place The garrison then
Deing at liberty to sally forth, colle.&ed
he spoils left by the enemy, among which
hey found the planks destined to aflift
hem in scaling the walls Having carri
?d all these things into the fort, a f econ i
ally was made to destroy the works oi
he enemy. It is arTerted that thrt e prtn
-es were killed in this a£fion, amonj l whorr
was the prince of Waldeck, who at le 11
oft an arm ; and that the enemy carried
jff three waggon leads of dei bodies,
When the garrison made their si; ft sortie.
hey found near the batteries of La Hau
:eguge, limbs and arms of eveiy kind, to
gether with cloaks, watches, fee. Tht
:nemy, fatisfied with this firft check have
it'empted nothing since. The deserters
rom the camp at Richemont fay, that
hey loft in this affair 450 men, and that
hey would have given four thousand to
preserve the Prince of Waldeck. The
invirons of the town are at present inun
fated by the river Seille, the current of
ivhich has been flopped. Fresh orders
iave been given to the citizens, to cut
lown all the trees within 250 toifes of
;he glacis. General Kellermann's army,
:ompofed now of 35,000 men, 12,000 of
whom are cavalry, quitted last Sunday
Void fur la Mcnre, in order to advance to
wards Bar. Others fay that a part of this
army have joined that of Dumourier, and
that two columns have blockcd up the
king of Prussia in Verdun.
" The following facts refpefling Long
wy are given on the report of a person
who arrived in this town, by permission oi
the commandant of that place. The ene
my have left there only 1800 men, toge
ther with the cannon which they employ
ed in the iiege. The mortars and ho wit-
zers have been conveyed to the army be
fore Thionville, The municipality con
tinue their opeiations, but the diflrifl no
longer exists. Great, mortality prevails
among the horses, because thev have been
fed with unripe wheat. The camp of
Richemont appeared this morning as il
about to move towards Briey. It is, how.
ever, pretended, that the cavalry only have
departed, and that the infantry have de
scended into the plain of Ttiionville,where
it seems they intend to carry on a regular
liege.
'• If such is their plan, and if they
once open trenches they will certainly be
detained there three months."
A courier extraordinary from the Low
er Pyrenees, has brought an account of a
near intend d invalion on the pait of Spair
—That the Court of Madrid on hearing
of the king's iufptnfion, had put its force;
on the war eltablifhmept, and that the
French Amb .ITador had been ordered tc
withdraw.
In Portugal, the royal suspension at Pa
ris was equally rcfented, by their fanatica
court and cl rgy ; but no warlike prepa.
rations on that account,
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
Nov mber, 1792.
D. il. Bar Ther. Wind. Weali.
Tuesday, 6. 7 29.95 48 N. Fair.
3
WedKcJday, 7. - 30. 5 46 N. Fair.
2 30- 07 65 N. E. do
ThurJ'day, ij. 2 30. 1 51 N.E. Cloudy
7 30. o 56 do. Rain.
Friday, g 7 29. 51 N.E. Cloudy
e 29. ; 56 N.W. Cloudy
Saturday, 10. 7 29. £ 52 w w Cloud)
a 29. 7 58 do. do
Sunday, n. 7 29. 9 43 %v.s.w Fair
2 29. 85 j8 J.W. do.
Monday, 12. 7 29. 8 43 v.N.w. Cloud)
229. 8 50 do. Fair
Prices Current at Philadelphia.
[Dollars equal to 100 cents.J
ASHEs Hoc per ton 50 Dols. to 100 i.
Alhes Pearl 137 — — I^.o.
Bacon flitches per lb. S cents.
Bacon moulders — y do.
Btes wdx, per lb. 27 cents to 30.
Brandy, Coniac, pergl. 1 doi. u c
Brandy, common, 80 to 90c.
Butter, in kegs, per lb. 11 c. to 12.
Bee/, boilon, per barrel yd to Sd.
Country ditto 6d to yd.
Coals, per bushel, 20 c. to 22
Coffee, per lb. 17 to 18 c.
Cotton, per lb. 27 c. to 37
Cheele, country, per lb. 8c to lOC.
Eaglirti kjc.
Jnocoiate, per lb* 18c to 20c.
Codfifh, per cwt. 3d. 50c.
k. urdage, American, per cwt. 7d 67c. to Sd.
3ack, Engliih No. 1. per yd. 28c.
1 cent less tor every number
Rutin, per bolt nd. 33c.
Dutch lail duck, ißd. to 2od.
>ail cloth, Bolton No. 1. per yd. 30c.
Flaxleod, per bulh. 90c to idol. 10c.
Flax, per lb. 11 to 12 c.
t-'lour, Juperfine, per barrel, $d. 33c.
Common, sdoii. 7 c.
Burr middlings, belt, p<rr brl. 4d. 46c.
Meal Indian 3 dols.
Rye 3 dols.
Ship ftufl", per cwt, 8o c. to 1 dof.
Gin, Holland, per calt, 4 dols. 33 c.
Ginseng per lb. 20 c. to 24
G#ain, barley, per bushel, ;d. to id; 3c:
— best fhtlitJ, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per buihel, 40 c.
Indian corn, 53 c. Oats 35 c. pr. bufii.
Rye 44c, Wheat 97c.
Herrings, per barrel 3d.
Hoops, hogshead, per M, 13d.
■. 'sri ■pane), yd to Bd,
perlb. 10c. to 11
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67c.
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9 c. to 11
Indigo, Carolina, perlb. 1 dol< to 1 dol. 20c.
iron, b*r, per ton, 91 dols.
CaftingSj per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c
Nail-rods per ton 110 dols. to ii»
per ton, 24 dols. to 26 dols. 67 c.
Sheet, per ten, 173 dols 33 c.
Leather, foal, perlb. 14c. to 17c. 20c.
Logwood per ton 3od.
Lard, hogs, per lb. joc. to 11
lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
Jn pigs, 5 dols. 33 c. to j dols. 67 r.
Red, 6 dols. 40 c. to b dols. 67 c.
White, 10 dols. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Mackerel, belt, per bbl. Bd.
VJadder, best, per lb. x6c. to 20c.
Myrtle wax per lb. 16 c.
MolafTes, per gal. 49 c. to 53
.nJaiJ s, Bd. iod. i2d and 20a. per lb. 10c.
Nutmrgs, per lb. 7 to Sd.
Oil, Linseed, per gallon, 6c to 67 c.
■ —Olive, 87c.
percale 2d. 50c.
Svveet belt in baikcts, 12 bot. 54.
—— 30 flallcs, in boxes iod 50c.
—Spermaceti, per gal. 48c.
Train 24c. to 27c.
Whale, 22c. to 24c.
Pepper, per lu. j.'.c-
Pimento, jgc.
t'orter per calk,
Porter, London, per'juzen, 1 dol. 60 c,
American, do. 1 d. 4 s. to 1 d. 60 c.
Pitch, p.. barrel, idol. 73 c. to 2 uois.
PsrJc, Burlington, p!r bsrrtl, i»ioU 33c
Lower County, do. 10 dob.
Carolina, do. 9 dols.
Raisins, Muf.-atel.'a, per box 2d.63 Ci
Ja. do. per jar 2d. 50c.
——-Sun do. per keg Bd.
Rice, per 112 lb. 3 dols.
Rosin, per barrel, 2 dolls. 78 c.
Rum, Antigua, per gal'on, 1 dol.
Barbadoes, do. do. 80 c.
New-England, &c. 65 to 67 c»
Jamaica, 1 dol. 7c.
Windward Jftand, 86c
Salmon, per bbl. 6d. 50c. t0 7d.
Scantling, heart, per M. 23d. 33c.
■■-Sap, Bd. 10 8d 67c.
Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 3d. 33c. to 3d 67c.
2 f ee t, <jd 33c. to 6
—3 feet, drelied, 13d.r0 i^d.
Salt, (Allum) per bushel, SOC.
Cadiz, —. 47 c.
Lilbon, . 47 c.
Liverpool, 47 c.
Skins, Deer, in hair, per lb. 20 to 30 c.
Red, ditto, ■■-26 to 33 c." »
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
Sugar, Havanna, white, per lb. 17 to 18 c.
Brown, per lb. 11 to 12c.
Muscovado, per cwt. 13 d. to 15 d.
Lump, per lb. 24 c.
Loaf, finglc refined, 25 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 c.
Tallow, refined, per lb. 9 c.
Hn, per box 13d. 33c. to 67c.
Tar, New-Jerley, 24 gal. to the brl, idl dl.
Carolina, 32 gal. 1 del. 33 c. to 1 dol. 67
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. 67 c. to 2
Tea, Hyson, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
H)ion /kin, 53 c. to Co
Souihong, 50c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 33 c. to 36
Tobacco, James River, btfl". per cwt. 3 dols. 6c
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 3 dols. 33c.
Old, 4 dois. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 3 dols. 33 c.
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl. 33 c. to 2 s
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, 2 dols- 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dols. 23 c.
Carolina, old, 3 dols. 33 c
Carolina, new, 2 qois. 7 c. to 3 dols.
Wine, Madeira, per pipe, 176 dl. to 226 dl. 67c;
Lilbon, 120 to 126
Teneriffe, per gal. 63.
Fayal, . 52
Port, per pipe, 33 c.
Sherry, per gal. 90 c. to id. 20c.
KID, and Co.
PERFUMERS, &c.
Have just impoueJ in tiie P I G O U, and otfce.
late arrivals Iroin Europe, and now open lor
Sale, at their store, No. ztz, in Ma.ket afcovt
Sixili-.ireet,
A ner.it affortmtnt of fbt faHawitr
GOODS, viz.
LADiES and Genta-mens' japaned drelting
cales complete, of all forts '
G«; clemens' fliaving cafe:,, powder bags, bo*t.
and powder pulls of all forts
Tortoiiheil, ivory, and li.jrn cornbes, of all kind
Tooth bruihes, dragon roots and tooth powder
All kinds of the best cloaths bruftes
Ladies' tortoifliell Aiders for the hair
Best Windforfoap, ail kind? of wafli balls
Powder masks and court-planter
Silk porfes and gloves tops
All kinds of raifors, warranted
Pocket, pen, and sporting knives
Seizors of ali kinds
Pitching, curling and spring irons
A general afTorrmevt vt pocket-books, ladles
thread-cases and etwes
Reft Lnglifh, Ch {hire, and Gloucester cheeses
Wax, wax candles, and lealing-wax
Meflfege cards of all kinds
All kinds of hair powder
hnglifh, French, and other pomatums
I amboured, Ca/Tim.er aiid rnuflinet waiftcoa
patterns.
Sin elegant ajjortment of
Ready made Ivlilinary,
-onfifting of lull dress, Qayj, Hats, and Bonnets*
fine chip hats
Black and coloured beaver hats, best quality
An aflortment ol the molt ialhionable ribbons
And beads I r trimmings and other ornaments.
Have /ike wife reccivd r. frefh fupplx of
MILK of ROSES.
They i > ive to info; m the ladies, that they
rontioue to rrjakc all kinds ornamental falte
iair upou an entire new and of so light
ind e§fv a conftru&ion, thai they look better than
'vhen a lady is by ihe most expert hair
ilelfer.
An aflortmer t cf elegant cut Steel Watch
St* ;>!s, \i arch Ke;s, with a variety of
-<ther goo s, too tedious to enumerate. 1
November ic, <v .
Manufactured and for Sale,
At A'o. 11, Neri/i Sixth Jlreit,
Fashionable Kound Top and flat
button S,
Warrantee' it iperior to any imported of
equal price.
country Stoi e-keepers lupplied either in
small or large quantities, By
s. I? OS T & Co.
N.B. ConKfhel B.ntons, Buckles, &c.
Qa - >r- _ _ _ aawtf
P R INi r£ 3 BY
CHILDS AiiD SWAINE
AT TH Eli OFFICE NO. 209, HIGH-STRUT
J«E.AR Fl: / TH-STREET,
.BHPHIA.