Vol. I.
authentic.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
A' the firft Seflion,begun and held at the city of
Philadelphia, in the State of Pcnnfylvania,
<311 Monday the twenty-fourth of Oaoher, one
thoui'and seven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT more ejfeßually to provide for the
National Defence by eftabhjhmg an Uni
form Militia throughout the United States.,
15 E it enaded by the Senate and Houfi of
JZS Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress Ajfcmbled, 1 hat each
and every free able-bodied white male
citizen of the refpe&ive dates, resident
therein, who is or shall be of the age of
eighteen years, and under the age of
forty-five years (except as is herein af
ter excepted) shall feverallyand relpec
tively be enrolled in the militia by tne
captain or commanding oLicer of the
company, within whole bounds such ci
tizen shall reside, and that within twelve
months after the palling of this ~a£t.
And it shall at all times hereafter be the
duty of every such captain or command
ing officer of a company to enrol every
such citizen, as aforesaid, and alio thole
who shall, from time to time, arrive at
the age of eighteen years, or being of
the age of eighteen years and ur.dei the
age of forty-five years (except as before
excepted) shall corrve to rehde within
his bounds; and shall without delay
notify fuchcitizen of the laid enrolment,
by a proper non-commissioned ofiicerof
the company, by whom iuch notice may
be proved. ' That every citizen so en
rolled-aad-notified. fball. within fix
months thereafter, provide himfelf with
a good musket or firelock, a lulfioient
bayonet and belt, two spare flints, and
a knapsack, a pouch with a box therein
to contain not less than twenty-four
cartridges, suited to the bore of his muf
quet or firelock, each cartridge to con
tain a proper quantity of powder anu
ball : or with a good rifle, knapsack,
(hot-pouch and powder-horn, twenty
balls suited to the bore of his rifle, and a
quarter of a pound of powder ; and fliall
appear, so armed, accoutred and provi
ded, when called out to exercise, or in
to service, except, that when called out
on company-days to exercise only, he
may appear without a knapsack. I hat
the commiflioned officers, shall severally
be armed with a sword or hanger and
efpontoon, and that from and after five
years from the pafTmg of this ast, all
mufquets for the arming the militia as
herein required, shall be of bores fufii
cient for ballsof the eighteenthpart of a
pound. And every citizen so enrolled,
and providing himfelf with the arms,
ammunition and accoutrements requi
red, as aforefaid, shall hold the fame ex
empted from all luits, distresses, execu
tions or sales, for debt or for the pay
ment of taxes.
And be it further enaEled, That the
Vice-Pi efident of the United States;
the officers, judicial and executive of
('the government of the United States;
the members of both Houses of Con
gress, and their refpe&ive officers; all
custom-house officers with their clerks ;
all poft-officers, and flage-dri vers, who
are employed in the care and convey
ance of the mail of the poft-officeof the
United States ; all ferrymen employed
at any ferry on the pofl-road ; all in
fpeftors of exports ; all pilots ; all ma
riners actually employed in the sea-ser
vice of any citizen or merchant within
the United States ; and all persons who
now are or may hereafter be exempted
by the laws of the refpe&ive states, lliall
be. and are hereby exempted from mili
tia duty, notvvithflanding their being
above the age of eighteen, and under
the age of forty five years.
And be it further enaEled, That within
©ne year after the passing of this a£L the
By P. FRENEAU: Pubkjhed. Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
the militia of the refpcftive dates shall
be arranged into divilions, brigades, re
giments, battallions and companies, as
the legislature of each state shall dirett ;
and eacli divifion,brigade, and regiment,
shall be numbered at the formation there
of ; and a record made of luch numbers
in the adjutant-general's office in the
state ; and when in the field, or in ser
vice in the state, each division, brigade
and regiment shall, refpeftively take
rank according to their numbers, reck
oning the firft or lowest number highest
in rank. That if the fame be convenient,
:ach brigade shall consist of four regi
ments : cach regiment o£ two battal
lions ; each battallion of five companies;
-ach company of sixty-sour privates,
rhat- the laid militia shall be officered
ay the refpe£tive states, as follows : To
:ach division, one major-general and
:wo aids-de-camp, with the rank of ma
or ; to each brigade, one brigadier-ge
leral, with one brigade-inipe&or, to
erve alio as brigade-major, with the
ank of a major ; to each regiment, one
ieutenant-colonel commandant; and to
:ach battallion one major ; to each com-
Dany one captain, one lieutenant, one
:nlign, four fcrjeants, four corporals,
)ne drummer and one fifer or bugler.
I'hat there lhall be a regimental ltaff,
:o consist of one adjutant and one quar
.er-mafter, to rank as lieutenants ; one
aay-roaftsr; one furgcon, aud one fur
jeon's mate ; one ferjeant-major ; one
drum-major, and one fife-major.
And be it further enabled, That out of
:he militia enrolled, as is herein direft
:d, there (hall be formed for each battal-j
ion at least one company of grenadiers,'
ight infantry or riflemen; and thatj
»each division, there (hall be at least:
jne company of artillery, and one troop |
t>f horse: there lhall be to each compa-j
riy of artillery, one captain, two lieute
nants, four ierjeants, four corporals, fix
junners, fix bombardiers, one drummer,
md one fifer. The officers to be arm
id with a sword or hanger, a fuiee,
aayonet and belt, with a cartridge-box
to contain twelve cartridges ; and each
Of
privateer matrofs shall furniffi himlell
with all the equipments of a private in
the infantry, until proper ordinance and
field artillery is provided. There shall
be to cach troop of horfc, one captain,
two lieutenants, one cornet, four fer
jeants, four corporals, one saddler. one
farrier, and one trumpeter. The com
milfioned officers to furnifh themfclves
with good horses of, at least, fourteen
hands and an half high, and to be armed j
with a sword, and pair of pistols, the
holsters ol which to be covered with!
bearlkin caps. Each dragoon to furnifh;
himfclf with a serviceable horse, at least
fourteen hands and an half high, a good I
laddie, bridle, mail-pillion and valise, (
holsters, and a breast-plate and crupper,
a pair of boots and spurs, a pair of pis
tols, a labre, and a cartouch-box, to
contain twelve cartridges for pistols.
That each company of artillery and
troop of horse lhall be formed of volun
teers Irom the brigade, at the discretion
of the commander in chief of the state,
not exceeding one companv of each to
a regiment, nor more in number than
one eleventh part of the infantry, and
lhall be uniformly cloathed in regimen
tals, to be furmfhed at their own ex
pense ; the colour and fafhion to be de
termined by the brigadier commanding
the brigade to which they belong.
And be it further cnaEled, That each
battallion and regiment shall be provi
ded with the state and regimental co
lours by the field officers, and cach com
pany with a drum and fife or bugle
horn, by the commissioned officers of
the company in such manner as the le
giflature of the refpeftive states shall di
rect.
And be it further enaßed, That there
fhal! be an adjutant-general appointed in
each state, whose duty it shall be to dis
tribute all orders frotn the commander
MONDAY, May 28, 1792.
_
in chief of the state to the several corps
to attend all public reviews when the
commander in chief of the Hate shall re
|view the militia, or any part thereof; tc
[ obey all orders from him relative tc
carrying into execution and perfecting
the system of military discipline efta
bliffiel by this ast; to furnifh blank
forms of dilFerent returns that may be
requited, and to explain the principles
on which they should be made ; to re
ceive from the l'everal officers of the
difFerent corps throughout the state, re
turns of the militia under their com
mand, reporting the actual situation oi
their arms, accoutrements and ammuni
tion, their delinquencies and every
other thing which relates to the general
advancement of good order and disci
pline s All which the several officers
of the idivifions, brigades, regiments and
battalfions, are hereby required to make
in the'ufual manner, so that the said ad
jutant-general may be duly furnifhed
therewith. From all which returns, he
shall make proper ab ft rafts, and lay the
lame annually before the commander in
chief of the state.
And be it further enaEled, That the rules
of discipline, approved and eftablifned
by Cotigrefs in their resolution, of the
twenty-ninth of March, one thousand
leven hundred and ieventy-nine, shall
be the rules of discipline to be observ
ed by the militia throughout the United
States, except such deviations from the
said rules as be rendered necessary
by th'-i requisitions of this ast, or by
some other unavoidable circumstances.
It fha 1 be the duty of the commanding
office! at every muster, whether by bat
tallion, regiment or single company, to
militia to be exeiciled and
trained agreeably to the said rules of
discipline.
And be it further enaEled, That all com
missioned officers shall take rank ac
cording to the date of their commissi
ons ; and when two of the fame grade
bear an equal date, then their rank to
be determined by lot, to be diawn by
them before the commanding officer of
the brigade, regiment, battallion, com
pany o: detachment.
And be it further enafled, That if any
perlon, whether officer or soldier, be
longing to the militia of any state, and
callcd out into the service of the United
States, be wounded or disabled while in
actual service, he shall be taken care of
and provided for at the public expense.
And be it further enacted, That it fiiall
be the duty of the brigade infpeftor, to
attend the regimental and battallion
meetings of the militia composing their
several brigades, during the time of their
being under aims, to infpeft their arms,
ammunition and accoutrements ; super
intend their exercise and manoeuvres,
and.introduce the system of military dis
cipline before described throughout the
brigade, agreeable to law, and such or
ders as they shall, from time to time
receive from the commander in chief of
the state ; to make returns to the adju
tant-general of the state, at least once in
every year, of the militia of the brigade
to which he belongs, reporting therein
the actual lituation of the arms, accou
trements and ammunition of the feveia
corps, and every other thing whicli in
his judgment may relate to their go
vernment and the general advancement
of good order and military discipline :
and the adjutant-general (hall make a
return of all the militia of the state, to
the commander in chief of the said state,
and a duplicate of the fame to the Presi
dent of the United States.
And whereas sundry corps of artille
ry, cavalry, and infantry, now exist in
several of the said states, which by the
laws, cultoms or usages thereof have not
been incorporated with, or fubjeft to
the general regulations of the militia :
Be itfurther enaEled, That such corps
retain their accustomed privileges, fub
jeft nevcrthclefs to all other duties re
Numb. 6i.
quired by this ast in like manner with
the other militia.
Jonathan Trumdull, Speaker of the
House of Reprefcntatives.
Richard Henry Lee, President
pro tempore of the Senate.
Approved, May eighth, 1792.
G. WASHINGTON,
President cf the United States.
Speech of Mr. SMITH (member of the
House of Reprefcntatives, from Nezo-
Hampf.ireJ on the motion of Mr. Mer
cer, as amended by Mr. Madfon, that
payments to the loan for the assumed debt
be made on the debt of the several fates
discharged fmce the treaty of pe. ee, as
well as that which is undifiharged.
1 HE ill policy of any afTumption of
the state debts, has been alferted, and in
my opinion, very fatisfaftorily proved
in the discussion which this lubjeft has
already undergone.
I aking it for granted, for the present,
that an alfumption, in some form, mult
take place—l rife to offer my sentiments
in favor of the amendment proposed bv
the gentleman from Maryland. The
mealure, as contemplated by the Secre
tary of the 1 reafury, is, as I have ob
served, impolitic, as it will greatly ,en
cieafc the public burthen, already too
gieat, lor the resources of which, the
United States, in this infant state of
their government, can avail themselves :
but it is a!(o unequal, and as it rclpefts
several of the Hates, very unjust, as it
[addles them with the debts of other
states. Because they have exerted
themselves fuccefsfully in effecting the
extinguiftiment of the debts w'Jfidi they
contrasted in the common defence, they
are now to be loaded with the debts of
those states, who have made no such
exertions.
If any gentleman will take the trouble
of examining the firft aftumption, and
will add to it what is proposed now to
be aifumed, he will find, that the sums
so alfumed, from the respective states,
are not such as would have resulted
from a due apportionment of the whole
sum alfumed among the several states in
the union, according to their refpeftive
numbers.
7 o vindicate an assumption so une
qual and disproportionate, gentlemen
must prove to us, that the payments
which the several states have actually
made towards the general defence, have
been in exact proportion to their abili
ty, that is, according to their numbers.
They must fatisfy us that South-Caroli
na, though ftie had previous to any as
sumption, fix millions of dollars of state
debt undischarged, had nevertheless dis
charged as great a portion of debt in
curred in the war, as any other state in
the union, and that the reason why she
had then so great a state debt, pressing
heavy upon her, wasnot because she had
■ot exerted herfelf, according toherut
moft ability, to dilcharge that debt; but
because (he had contraftsd a debt much
beyond her just proportion ; —that is, in
fact, that upon a final settlement of ac
counts she would have a balance due
equal to the sum which constitutes the
difference between her just proportion
of the whole sum assumed, and the sum
actually alfumed ; which is in this cafe,
more than four millions of dollars.
The fame reasoning would apply t6
the other states who have sums assumed
beyond their just proportion. Upon
these principles too, they must prove to
us that New-Hampshire, upon a final
settlement of accounts, would be found
in debt to the union more than seven
hundred thousand dollars : that is, that
she is the greatest delinquent in the
union. I ask gentlemen if they have
any documents to prove this.
It would be easy to fatisfy an inhabi
Unt of Maflachufetts or South-Carolina"tnSt they were great creditors, <,nd thai
JJew-Hampfhire is a verv great debtor.
Jbut it will require something more than
the confident affortions of gentlemen,
to convince-the state I represent that thi:
is really the cafe ; they believe, and they
v.'i-1 continue in this well-founded be
]:<:«, 4 ill some evidence appears to the
contrary, that they at least contributed
their just proportion towards the gene
ral defence. Some states, no doubt,
from the rnam;er in which they were
peculiarly circumstanced, may have
done more than in proportion to New-
Hampshire, while I am persuaded thai
others 'have -done less. The Unitec
States have uniformly proceeded upon
the idea, that the states who have done
more than their proportion, should have
credit m a general settlement, while
J hole who have done less, should be
compelled to pay the balances due from
their,. I have no doubt but that Tome
of the ftsn.es, -who now have debts un
.iffumed, will be found entitled to ba
lances, but 1 deny that New-llampfhire
can |ultly be called upon for the payment
of them.
Congress have uniformly taken it foi
planted, that the inequalities which
jnay have existed in the exertions of the
several states, can only bo remedied by i
settlement of all accounts between the
United States and the several states. Ai
great expence they have c'ftablifhcc
boards of commi {lionets, with very am
ide powers; they have sent commission
ors into the leveral states, to receive and
■adjust their claims ; —the states have
been at very great expence in stating
their accounts, and procuring the necef
iary vouchers to lupport them.
But gentlemen have now made a dis
covery, which, if it had been made in
ieafon, would have laved all this trouble
and expence: they have discovered.
that the leveral states in the union have
laid equal burthens on their citizens tc
carry on the war and to dilcharge the
debt incurred in the common defence,
and that equal justice required at the
commencement of this new government
in 1789, that the United States should
ftcp in between the states and their cre
ditors and cafe them of their debts. But
the gentlemen who have made this dis
covery, are too much intercfted to ex
pedf. full credit to their sentiments on
this head.
It happens somewhat unfortunate for
this hypothecs, that those who maintain
it, are thole who are to be gainers by it.
li may well be expe&ed that less evi
dence will fatisfy South Carolina that
ihe is a creditor state, than New Hamp
shire.that she is a debtor'; and more cf
(ficacioas iogic must be used to induce
the latter to pay 7 or 8 hundred thou
sand dollars of the debt of the former,
than to periuadethe former to put that
burthen off her own Ihouldcrs and lay
it upon the latter. Let not gentlemen
imagine that New Kampfhire, though
ihe is a small state and of no great im
portance in the union, patiently submit
ted to the injufticeot the former afiump
tion. They remonstrated—That re
jnonftrance is now on your table. ;Why
did they complain ? Because in that af
iumption they were conlidered as the
greatest debtor of any state tn the union:
.and because they were, as a constituent
part of the union, called upon to pay 7
or 8 hundred thousand dollars .of the
debt of South Carolina, Maffachuietts,
or some other state. Why should it be
taken for granted, they alk, that we are
a debtor ? What documents are gentle
men possessed of, that juftify such a fuo
polition ? Let them be produced. If
the opinion -of gentlemen, who have
spoken within these walls and without,
is to be relied upon, there is scarce a state
in the union but that has done-far more
than her proportion- Jo .that there mull:
be a great balance due to each state. All
this tends to (hew that it is unreasona
ble to expedt that any one state will pa
tiently submit to a measure which takes
that for granted, which they do not be
lieve, and which it is never their inter
est to admit. There never was, in my
opinion, but one principle which could
juftify any allumption previous to a fi
jiaiiettiemeat ; and that was giving re
lief to dates who had unquestionably
contra&ed a debt much ■ beyond their
just proportion, and who were groaning
beneath -the burden of that debc. Where
it could be known with tolerable cer
tainty that a balance would be filially
feiueto such a state, much might be laid
n favor of anticlpa': in g the payment of
it. But was this the principle which
governed? Was this principle at all pur
luedPWere 2,200,000d<>15. assumed from
Pe'twifyl vania, becauic ftic was or would
be a creditor (late—or bexaule flie was
heavily burthened with debt ? Will
gentlemen undertake to fay, that any
principle at all was adhered to in the
assumption ? Was it not a mere bargain
and sale between certain (bates who were
interested, that an assumption should
take place ; and who, provided they
could be only exonerated from their
own debt, would not flick at anv means
to accomplish so dertrablea thing. Was
it not at the expencc of ]uftice, and al
the expence of certain states, pai ticu
larly at the expence of the state 1 repre
sent. If the Rates, who had the largefi
portion of debt to struggle with, at the
adoption of the prelent constitution.
were to be relieved, such relief jmight
have been afforded without any viola
tion of the principles of justice and
equality. The United States might have
afforded a temporary relief till the ac
counts were fettled—orif it was thought
best to assume the balances due froir
those states to their creditors, a pro
portionate sum (which is what I now
advocate) should have been assumed frorr
every other ffate. The United State;
could never advance a sum to anv one
ffate without advancing a proportionate
one to every other state, without at the
fame time, declaring that the one hac
better pretentions to such a grant thar
the other—and what can authorize fuel
a declaration P I know of no data or.
which to found it. A gentleman frorr
Massachusetts objects to this—He lavs,
this would greatly increase the public
debt : and he appears now to be a great
enemy to such an increase. When thi;
argument was urged aguinft any assump
tion it was treated with great contempt,
it seems however that gentlemen have
no obje&ion to increaiuig the public
debt, as far as the debts of their respec
tive ffates will do it—They do not wifb
to go farther—They aie against accu
mulating the publicdebt, if they are not
to have the whole benefit of it. ' If they
are in favor of an assumption, they
should be in favor of an equal one.
Some gentlemen have taken much pain*
to convince us that the citizens
states are zealous for the measure. I
am not,difpolcd to doubt it. If they
can have their burthens taken from
their shoulders and placed upon then
neighbour's, it is not to be cxpe&ed that
they should complain. But becauic the
winners are pleased, it by no means fol
lows that the loofers are pleased too.
iiut we are told that the inequalities ol
both assumptions will be remedied by the
settlement. Who is it expected will be
deceived by this ffate device ? Is there
any one lo ignorant ? What is it but fay
ing, Submit to jnjuftice now, and,we
wiil redress it hereafter. Only be fc
kind as to acknowledge now that you
are a debtor state, and we will be much
abliged to you, and if it lhould turn out
an settlement of accounts, that you have
been paying our t debts for us, we will
then repay you. But do not these fame
perlons tell us, that the accounts nevei
will be fettled ; or if they are, that ba
anccs never will be paid or received—l
oelieve it, I consider this assumption a;
ligning the death warrant of the settle
ment of accounts.
1 herefore, let the assumption beequal.
If any takes place at this time, I hope
it will be a just and equal one; nay
more, that it .will redress the inequali
tics of the former one ; and that th?
states who have laid heavy hurthens on
their citizens, will not be punilhed for
theirlaudablc iri£-xutiguifhing theii
defe-ts, but that they will at lejt fare as
well .as those who have made no such
exertions.. In one word, I am again fl
any assumption., but it any assumption
obtains, as it cannot be known which
state is debtor or whi.chrreditor, let the
sums assumed from each be equal, that
is, according to their respective num
bers.
PRi C E or STOCKS.
S't per cent*., per,£. - 22 f
'1 iiree d«io - .
E .ix dilts, - , -j,
lnaeius
final fettlcments, 18^6
i-2lhai'es iiaqk Stuck jc per cent pre.-niuir,.
i>ll4lC3 tiaUL ty. .a. vlitU.
P H I L AD K L P II I A.
May rfi, 1^92.
We hear from New-York that Cornrlim
Mm\ i.fjuire, is appointed a director of'the
Branch Bank of the United States, in that
city -ire Edmund Prior, resigned—As al
so, AqdilaG'its, Ffquire, of King's county,
appointed Marshal of Nevv-V ork diitrict —
vi--t Matthew Clarkion, Fifq. resigned.
Captain Macpherfon, of thi-5 city, recom
mend the following method to prevent the
roofs of shingled houses taking tire. l.el
your shingles, when prepared for nailing 01:
the lath, be (baked fourteen days in a
trough of strong pickle. 'I he saline parti
cles will in that time thoroughly pervade
every pore of the shingles so as to render
them, in a great degree, incombustible ; al
least, if burning coals are put thereon, thej
will be extingifiled without injuring th«
shingles.
On the firft of May a convention froir
several towns and plantations in the count)
of York, Province of Maine, was held ai
Sanford in that county, to debate on the ex
pediency and propriety of a reparation frorr
Massachusetts; when after fully agitating
the question, it w as determined in the ne
gative : yeas 3, nays 13.
We hear there is a prospect of the ;bufi
nefs of coal-mines on the li
ver Lehcigh, being soon taken up ferioudy.
A meeting of the president and manager;
of the company, established for that purpose.
w r as held in this city on Thursday last
when it was determined that a convocation
of the stockholders shall be had at the Hate
house on Monday, July 2d.
Letters from Cape Francois, to the 9th
of May, represent that colony and town a
-11:ill in a most diffreffing (ituation —the pop
ple without money, and the merchants,
consequently, unable to make collectionsol
remittances—the remainder of the troop:
from France had not yet arrived; and
nearly one half that had heretofore been
landed at the Cape, were in hofpitaU,
from the insalubrity of the climate— coffee
had risen to 28 and 30 l'ous per lb. —Sugar,
11, 12, and 13 dollars per cwt. —and nu
molafl'es at market.
We hear that General Wilkinfon ha;
lately established a poll, and built a fort be
tween forts Hamilton and Jefferfon. The
fort is called Fort St. Clair, and has a strong
garrison, with several months provision in
it.
A veflel,arrived here on Friday lad in fix
weeks from Hamburg, brings an account of
the king of Sweden having been dangerous
ly wounded, by several balls from 'an a'u
gun, which entered his groin. The action
was perpetrated by a dilmiffed officer at a
masquerade. Part of the load had been
extracted, but the king's life was ltill in
great danger. The date of this accident i;
March 16 th Accounts by another
veflel fay, that no a£tive ltep, further than
hoitile preparations, had been taken again!!
the French, although every tiling w ore a
threatening appearance.
" I think it ceitain (fays Mr. Paine) that il
the fleets of England, Fiance, and Holland were
confederated, together with I'uch foice as the
United States of America could throw in, ih t -y
might propole with effefl, to Spain, the inde
pendence ot South-America, and the opening
thole countries of immense extent and wealth -a
the general commerce of the woild, as North A
merica now is. 'l'he opening of South America
would produce an immense held of commerce,
and a ready money market for manufactures,
which the Eaflern world does not."
" With how much irtoie glory and adva:ita;e
(continues he) to itfelf, does a nation act, when
it exerts its powers to rescue the world from bon
dage, and to create itfelf friends, than when ii
employs thole powers to create ruin, defolaiion
and mifeiy. The hortid scene that is now acfino
by the British government in the Eafl-Indies, »
lit only to be told of Goths and Vandals, who,
deflitute of principle, robbed and tortured the
world they were incapable of enjoyinc."
Agsin " The fraud, hypoerify, and impo
fitton of governments, are now beginning to be
too well underllood topromife them anv loiij ca
reer. The farce of monarchy and ariducracv.
ill all countries, is following that of chivalry, and
Mr. Burke is drefmg for thefuneral! Let it then
pals quietly to the tomb of all their follies, and
the niourners b; comforted" " The present
a<je will hereafter merit to be called the age, of
Reiilon, and the prefect generation will appeal
to the future as the Adam of a new woild."'
Governments, in all countries, require
the utmoit vigilance of the people in cor
recting their aoiifes, and preyenting or re
pelling their encroachment;, which are al
\vays gradual, and advance like the hour
hand on a dial. That a man ,'hould make
it his conltant business to endeavour to per
suade a people that their government is
without a particle of spot or bleniifh, mull
beget fttfpicion.
In America, the people are, no doubt, in
a political, and lorneother views,compare
lively happy—but let it be remembered,
that without frequent pruning of vicious
(hoots, the molt virtuous govenimem
\, 111 degenerate, and bear bad fruit. In re
gard to the ltrange credulity of mankind,
it may.be worth w&ile to observe, that t!:e
late go. -ran n: and antic;; o;* rranee \ver«!
extolled tu the ikies, and the people really
believed themselves unrivalled, at the very
moment they were bowed down under the
moil degrading slavery.
" Earth had nofolks-no folks hadfuch a town
As /'aits was Sing Jerry, derry down "
The revolution, however, has effectually
opened the eyes of the nation, and convin
ced them that they thought themselves well,
when they w ere really in the last itage of
political dissolution.
The commiflioner for the Jersey manu
facturing society, has given public notice
that the certificates for fliares in the
ol the Society are nearly completed, and
will be ready to be delivered to the origi
nal fubferibers, or Lo their legal representa
tives, on the firft day of June ensuing.
No stroke of policy could be more point
edly severe against the political depravity
ofhurope. (in which America is included)
than the edict of China, now ofnearonehun
dred years {landing, that no European
admitted into their Empire. This sweeping or
der is rigidly enforced, to the present day ;
and the 1110 ft dignified characters, in the
line of Amballadors,&c. from Kurope have
not by means of any prefentsor bribes what
ever been able to procure a fight, even of
Canton, except from a refpeftable di.-
tance. It is laid to be a universally receiv
ed opinion in China, that there is no Euro
pean without evil d'fign ; and that nature has
formed them only Jor treaj ns and revolutim.s.
From this prejudice it comes, that our ac
counts of China are so exceedingly defec
tive ; and it is a fasl, that all we know,
with any degree of precision of the internal
situation, population, government, arts,
manufactures, &c. of that country, are tie
rived from some of the firft visitors, whole
accounts are now verging to the date of
two centuries. The Chinese general opi
nion ot the reft of mankind, includes a tacit
reproach upon themselves ; for the fame
reason, that he who believes all men to be
villains is certainly one himfelf. In no
country is knavery so much praftifed as in
China; and there is scarcely a law in their
whole fyitem, that has not a direst aipect
to discourage this odious propensity in
the subjects of that empire.
On the 12th instant the supreme court for
the district of Dumfries, in Virginia, \va
opened 1 v the Hon. the Judges—but, for
want of a grand jury, the trials of the sup
posed criminals, now confined in the jail of
tiiat place, are postponed until the next
term, which is fix months off. It was ob
served on this occalion, that the ihameful
negligence, or rather contempt of those
(the jurymen) who prevented the court
from proceeding to business, deserves the
highest censure, und a fine at least adequate
to the expence to which the country is ex
poferi by maintaining the criminals fix
months longer in jail." | Yes—and what
recompence can be made to a man, who
happens at last to prove not guilty of the
crime alledged against him ? or what fine
can be adequate to the loss that a helpless
woman or a number of innocent children,
may luftain in the death of a husband or
father, during a fix months summer con
finement in a ioathfome jail, who mii T ht
ha\e appeared, upon trial, to hare been
wrongfully accu'ed :—-At any rate this is
far enough within the bounds ofpoflibiiity,
and the cooperation ought to influence e
very friend to humanity. J
IN every country w here free newspapers
are allowed, these periodical publications
may be called the pujfe of the world's
health ; and as they contain more or le/s new?,
you may conclude the nations of the world
to be more or Icjs happy.
Wats conflagrations, robberies.insurrec
tions, fliipwrecks, bloodihed, pestilence,
murd?rs, and famine make the pulse of a
newspaper beat high, but. depend upon it,
tile world is at the fame lime in the delirium
of a fever, that tin e.;;e;;s its dflo.ution.
Vi iieu we hear auniverfal complaint, for
any length of time, that the newspapers are
intolerably dull, uniiuerefting and insipid,
we may conclude that tyrants areat peace,
the people contented and well fed, tlie ship
fails in fafety over the ocean, and that the
sword of revenge is lodged in the flicathe.
lhe increase of newipapers, and confe
queiKly the increase of news, {hows either ;•
real .ncruale of wickedness among man
kind ; or, at least, that they are lefsalham
ed than formerly to ptiblifh their wicked
ness to each other.
Our last accounts from Morgan-Town (fays
a Winchcfler (Virginia) paper of die l6;h inft.)
advise, that no fuither depredations of confe
rence have been cortunitted by ibe t'avaoes. in
th it quarter, since their visit to Dunker-Creek,
( me particular of which were inlet ted in our
1 ill) but that there are panics of litem (fill in
>..e neighborhood, a few {haggling ones having
been discovered within fojir or five aides of the.
town, who, it is undeiflood, bad fired at I'otrie
cattle and hork-s. A geneial conllernation pre
vails among the inhabitants, of Monongahelu,
many of whom have fought an asylum in Mor
gan- 1 Own—Exertions, however, are making t»
jiuar.d agajuii, andchcck the inroads of the inva
de) s.
iinc breed of Peifian flicep is laifingin
Maryland. Ihe ram lambs are boueJtt up ai
no less a pncp than twenty dollars.A meet'iff of subscriber" to " the feveralj
r azettes and newspapers printed in Phila- J
tU lphia." is advertised, in the Virginia Ga
zette of the igth instant, to be held at the
} agle Tavern, in the city of Richmond, 011
Monday the 21 ft of May, "to take into
t onfideration the law of the United States impo
sing a tax on the [aid Gazettes and newspapers.—
A d.lcul&o:i of this fubjeft by the said sub
scribers, and indeed by the citizens at large,
v.ho are invited also to this meeting, ap
pears to bo more necefTary at this time, from
the alarming consequences which may arise
from the want of due information on a
number of fubjefts, only to be obtained by
a free circulation of that important arti
cle, A PUBLIC NEWSPAPER."
It is an inconteftible truth, and which
ought deeply to interest every friend to hu
manity, tliat the number of {laves now in
the Weli-India islands is altogether fuffici
ent for their cultivation ; and that with good
and humane usage, the stock of negroes,
now upon the islands, would increase tepid
ly by natural population, instead of requi
ring a debasing African trade merely to
keep it good.
" How beautiful {fays the Norwich Re
gister) is the order of nature! The planets
move on in their own orbits ; the rivers in
their own channels ; and every good man
in the way which nature and education
have allotted him ; no man is robbed ; no
house plundered ; no town burnt ; no
found of the warrior, and garments rolled
jn blood ; 110 remarkable disaster .befalls
any one : But then there is a dearth of
now-, and people feel imeafy. IScws-pa
pers, fay they, are now a-days hardly
worth rending : llilt let us put a proper
• ojiflrucfion 011 all events, and ve shall find
that no tins is good news : becavfe we are then
to suppose thai harmony and good order
pervade the world.
When a printer finds none of these cala
mitous matters to fill his paper with, he in
tersperses it, if he be a judicious man, with
extracts and pieces on politics, husbandry,
bulincfi, trade or morality ; with now and
then a sketch of wit and humour, which
serve toexhilarate the fpirits,inform the un
derstanding, reform the manners, or mend
the heart ; which, though it be no news, is
highly preterable to bad news,"
Several concurring; foreign accounts fav,
that, from all appearances, the people of
Aulirian 1 landers conficter the death of
Leopold the 2d. as an event favourable to
their hopes of throwing oif their dependen
cy 0:1 the Gcrmanic powers- They are e
ven said to have reared the regenerated
French ffandard, and to have determined to
put themselves under the protection of
France rather than continue longer fubjeft
ed to a foreign despot. At Brufl'els, mat
ters have been carried lo far, that hand
bills have been lluck up every where in the
flreets, exhorting the people to shake off
the yoke of the House of Austria, and ad
vising, if they could not render themselves
completely and finally independent, at lead:
to incorporate themselves with a nation
[the French] who had learnt to think and
aift up to the dignity of human nature. —
To counteract this serious spirit of revolt,
uear sixty thousand troops were already
quartered in the Austrian Netherlands,
when tltele accounts came away, and num
bers every day arriving, with every species
of military llores, adequate to a great un
dertaking.
The votes of twenty cue counties in the
Province of Maine, for and against a repa
ration from Maifrichufetls, are come tt,
hand—The aggregate is, fix hundred and
sixty fix votes for a reparation ; nine hun
dred and leventy three, agai:i : i it.
The following is related of the late king
of Pruflia, asalacf : "one of his dogs (of
which species of animals he was remarka
bly fond) being lick, Frederick being then
in Silelia, gave orders that a courier lbould
be sent every day to bring him an account
of its littiatioii. On hs return, finding the
little animal was dead and buried, he cati
fed it t;» be taken from the earth, that he
might have the pleasure of feeing it once
more; thut himielf up the whole day, and
.cried for it like a child".—This, among ma
ny other instances, might be brought as a
proof of the execrable nature of Royalty,
which can occalionaliy feel for the brute
creation, but never for the miseries of its
own fpecies.—lt was well said by Mr.
Paine—"As nature had no hand in forming
kings and emperors, neither are they poi
felled of the genuine feelings of nature".—
The late fndden change in the Spanish go
vernment (fays an F.nglifh paper) is now
•knownto have been merely acourt intrigue,
by 110 means uuufual in all governments.
The people were dillatisfied, and it was
neeeifarv to shew a semblance of facrificing
to their opinion. Count Florida Blanca is
no oKierwife disgraced than being ob iged
to retire to his own personal eltate, in the
province of Murcia ; which molt persons
after lb long and laborious a confinement
to political affairs, would rather esteem a
comfort than a matter of regret; iinecure
appointments are continued to him. In
i:ead ot the government of Spain being
guided by qae men, as heretofore, it will
jow of u.ld<T the tiireSion of a council, of
which the king is the head, and Count d'
\randa his principal Minister. It will
nake no alteration whatever in the nego
tiations oil the tapis with foreign courts.
European Spectilatifts, in the late print's'
leemto disagree in their ideas relativetothe
part the luccelfor o' the emperor ofGermatiy
will take in countenancing, or arting againlt
the French revolution. German and
Dutch papers do not fail to afiert, that he
is in the interell of the French emigrants,
and will do his utmost to bring about a
counter revolution in France, at least so
far as to restore the nobility, and certain
prerogatives of the crown. Others fay,
that the death of Leopold the second has,
moll probably ruined the hopes of the emi
grants, " it being evident that the German
Princes muff now be entirely occupied with
the affairs of their own country, and the
election of a new emperor, which mult cer
tainly employ them for more than a year,
and occupy that attention which otherwise
would have been given to the interests of
the French princes, who have nothing to
depend upon but their own strength, which,
in fait, is now nothing; as it is very pro
bable that the emperor's death, dissipating
every fear of a ierious war, may tend to
concentrate the minds of the people in
France, no longer divided upon their mea
sures with Leopold—Under this point of
view, the event is fortunate for the French
constitution, and perhaps more general li
bel ty: For it would be voluntary blind
ness to believe the pacific intentions which
have been so loudly trumpeted abroad."
On the l th inflant a deputy-{herifT (a Dr.
Smub) in Wellcheder county, (late of New-
York, havinga writagaind one Ryer, met him
in a public house, and while he was taking him
prilonerwiih lhecudomary fo'mahty, Ryer in-
Ifanily drew a piflol out of his pockct, and (hot
Smith dead — Notwithflandirtg a number of peo
ple were prelent, Ryer made his escape, by
threatening to (hoot (w'ith another loaded piflol
he had in bis polfedion) any person that would
dare to lav hand; on him.—One hundred dol
lars are offered by the high fheriff for appre
hending and securing the murderer.
An accommodation (we hear) has taken place
between the merchants of this city, and the De
[aware liver and bay pilots who had for some
ime pafl rendezvoused at Marcus- Hook, and
refufcd to conduits any veflels to or from the
port, unless an addition was made to the pre
lent rates of pilotage. Wedonot learn,howe
ver, that their rates have been railed—and, it is
laid, they returned to their duty from a convic
tion that thev would be completely fuperfedeJ
hv anew race of able pilots, in a few weeks, il
they continued obdinate. On Wedneldav fif
teen of the old pilots went out of the bay, tc
:ruife for the inward bound {hipping, and fix
tnhers came up to this city, to attend their duly
is usual.
Since the breaking up of the river Schuylkill,
welve large boats have been aimed conflantly
:mployed on that river between this city and
Reading-, a didance of about sixty miles (by
and). These boaU are generally fiotn thirteen
ofixteen tons burthen ; but recently, the waters
laving fallen considerably, the fi/.e of the boats
.ent down has not averaged more than five tor.s
It is calculated that upwards of twelve hundrec
ons of produce have been brought down the
Schuylkill since the firft of March.
Some accounts are comc to hand of an inlur
t ttion of negroes in Northampton andAceo
nack counties (Eallern-Shore of Virginia) ahou
be beginning of May, indant.— Reports fay,
that they aflcmbled to the number of about nine
mndrcd, in different patties, armed with muf
tets, spears, clubs, &c. and committed leveral
Jutrages upon th-- inhabitants, though it does
lot yet appear that any lives were lod. —A con
iderable number of the insurgents have been
aken up by the militia of the country, who now
;eep acondan guard.—Considerable quantities
>faims and parcels of mulket balls, &c. have
>een discovered in phccsof coneealmcnt ; and
in agreement (it is said) had been entered into
>etween the heads of the insurgents at Norfolk
ind thole on the Eallern-Shore, to bring ovet
ix hundred of the latter to seize upon (he pow
ler magazine at Norfolk, and mailacre the in
labitantsof that town and Portlmouth.
The following is mentioned in the Boflor
Sentinel as the present extra piice current at
\'ew-Yoik —Shaving, twenty per cent, advance
—tar and feathers in great demand—docks (ex
:ept wooden ones) very low and out of demand,
donor and honelly, f'carce—haid cadi, one hun-
Ired per cent, above par —paper ditto, one hun
fred per rent, below par.
Because (lays the Bollon Columbian Cen
inel) certain refilefs chancers in the fouth
:rn dales, to anfv tr some e'efigns of th ii
>wn, have exerted eveiy neive to b'afl the
haratler, and belittle the abilitjesof the Vice-
President of the United States, the Secretaiy
it War, and other didiniuifiieJ persons frotr
he Northern States; Innie Icribblers amoiK
Juifelves join m the fcumlity, and even ex
ecd the widies of th' ir Jitters on —who now
augh in their sleeve to lee the business of de
ration and defamation fucceeet so well in places
t-om whence they expected detection and oppo
t.ion!
Samuel Huntington. Esq. is re-cleQed Go
vernor of the date of Connecticut ; and Oliver
H olccttj Esq. Lieut, Governor.
" It it. vrll known (kv-, t'.e Kcw-York
fournalj that one third of the flock of the Uni
ted Stares was held, some time ago by the (pe
culators ofNew-York. Now, that one third of
the whole deb' being annihilated, ir is conjee.
Hired by tnany that the secretary of the treasury
will, in a fliort time pay interest on the defer
red debt; and also raise the three per cent, to
fix. This hint is given to put the present hold
ers of flock upon their guard, as it may be de
pended upon t'ie (peculators will be on the
liunt after this species of flock."
Mr. Paine's book, entitled, " The frcond
part of the Rights of Man," was published a
lew days ago in Boflon —" It is matter of doubt
'fays a Boflon correspondent) whether Publicola
will again appear to answer it. Certain it is,
however, that philojophical retirement isnotun
requently productive of politicaifcribbling
We learn from a late English paper that
a society of Quakers have engaged a veflel
to carry eleven families of that perfualion
to Butany Bay, as settlers.
Lord Lonfdale (fay the Fngli(h prints)
is To much irritated by Peter Pindar's Cm
miferating F.piJlle. that he has not only com
menced a prosecution against the author
and publilher. but even against the man
who made the paper on which it was
printed 1
A gentleman from New-England informs
us, that a (hip has lately arrived at Boston,
from the East-Indies, with 700 tons of su
gar ; the whole of which immense quanti
ty, is put up in bags, in the nicest manner,
each bag being formed of three species of
firft or inner one is equal in
finenefs to common muslin, the second to
common white holland. and the third or
outer one to ticklenberg—The quality of
this sugar is far Aiperior to the belt Musco
vado, and was purchased in the East-In
dies at about 3.!. this currency per lb.
[_Albany Caz. J
OPINION.
Wonderful, indeed, is the influence of
opinion upon mankind ; and to such a de
gree does it operate upon the human con
stitution, that happiness itfelf is generally
found to confifl therein. What makes so
many nations happy, who are seated in the
mod barren and contemptible spots of this
earth, but opinion ? Opinion upholds al
1110ft every government in the world, and
should the weight of opinion be once
brought against them, their downfall is in
evitable. Were opinions unchangeable,
governments, even the mofl cruel and op
pressive, would forever be the fame ; fortu
nately, however, in some degree, for man
kind, the mutability of opinion is the cause
of revolutions in the great political wheel
of government, which gives every nation
its turn to be iippermoft as well as lower
most ; and allows them their intervals of
pleasure, as well as of pain. Perhaps in no
country is opinion of a more fickle and
tranlient nature than in the United States,
as may more fully appear from the follow
ing Chronological lift of Opinions—
17H9. Public debt may be made a public
blessing.
1790. Public debt is a public bleiihig.
1791. Public debt is not a public evil.
1792. [January] Puolic debt may becomc
a public eVil.
1-92. [Novemb.] Public debt is a pub
lic evil.
1 793- Public debt is among the greatest oi
public evils.
1-94. It is wonderful that so great a folly
oi opinion should have ever existed in a
free and enlightened country, as that s
public debt and perpetual taxes were
the means of public liberty and public
prosperity; and that, both debts and
taxes ought to be encreafed for their own
fakes, instead of establishing the latter by
paying off the former, for the fake ol
public credit and public honour !
May 26.
PITTSBURGH, May 19.
The Fort begun last winter at this place
(lands 011 the Allegany river within aboul
one hundred yards of the bank, on a beau
tiful riling ground, about one quarter of a
mile higher up than the old garrison of Fori
Pitt. It is completely stockaded in, anc
one range of barracks built, a block-houfir
in one of the angles finilhed, and the re
mainder inforvvardnefs. Captain Hughes
ot the 2d United States regiment, com
mands the Fort, which last Saturday, the
12th of May, was named Fort Fayette. Tht
ceremonial was as follows:—About twe
o'clock, the American hag of fifteen (tripe;
was hoisted on the ftaif of 92 feet in height.
The company atiembled, conlifting of the
principal gentlemen of the town, were in
vited to a cold collation, and a glals oi
wine :— At the firft toast, two pieces oi
ordnance were discharged, old double for
tified twelve pounders, brought to this place
originally bv the French, then acquired
bv the Britifli, and from them by us— at
tiiefe discharges the Fort received its name:
then a treble discharge in honor of the Pre
lident of the United States, and fifteen
rounds for the fifteen states.
Thursday last a detachment of troops ar
rived here from the lower parts of this
late, under the command of Captain F.d
aard Butler.
F/crr.tAe Wor.l.r, & I.iadon Pa
per, of Feb. 23.]
Mr Printer,
The letter herewith, wa* lately trans
mitted from a relpe&able Pennfylvanian,
to Thomas Paine, (Author of the Rig/ts
of Man and other republican pamphlets)
formerly known tt> him in America. If
you think fit to infer* it in your much ap
proved paper, it is at your service.
F. Z.
Friend Thomas,
I have perused thy publication with as
much thought and reflection as I am pos
sessed of. I therein descry conliderable, but
uncultivated ingenuity, and much seeming
zeal (but without, knowledge) for politi
cal reformation. Polfibly there may be
truth in some of thy remarks, and verily do
I hope thou haft some good will towards
mankind, although I think thee grol'slv
mistaken in thy notions of good govern
ment. —Though an American, I am not
so bigotted as thou art to republicanism.
and only prefer it (as many of my thinking
brethcren here,do) to a worse form of go
vernment, I mean despotism in its true
sense; not according to thy overstrained ac
ceptation.
Now, perhaps, from thy 'ate refideilce
in France, thou mayeft have imbibed some
of their fopperies in dress as well as of poli
ty. From hence thou mayeft conceive,
my broad brimmed hat hath too much the
efteel: of keeping me in obfeurity as to some
objetts, and would not recommend me to
forego the comfort, convenience, and (bel
ter I have always been accultomed to ex
perience from it, for the fake of acquiring
more light unto inyfelf by cropping, and (to
borrow thy own favorite phrase) regenera
ting it into a new form, (becanfe truly thy
1* rench friends have adopted that mode) and
thereby to expose myfeif to much greater
evils, which in its present state I ;:m not
liable to . I will readily grant thee, that
the more I should crop and curtail my
beaver, the nearer I should approach to man
in hisprimitive state, when hats and breech
es were alike in disuse. But pardon me
friend Thomas, when I afl'ert, that vain
will be thy endeavors to cry down the ufr
of the one or the other, as far as I am con
cerned, (in spite of the benefits 1 derive
from them)until, like thee, I shall have cast
off even the exterior of modeftv and deco
rum, and, moreover, like thee, have turn
ed my back 011, and become zealous to re
probate what has hitherto afforded me
comfort and protection.
EPHRAIM STEDFAST.
Meteorolocical Observations
May, 1792.
D. 11. Bar. Tker. Wind. H'eath.
Monday, 21. 6 30. 1 54 N. Fair.
2 30. 12 69 do. do.
Tuesday, 2z. 6 go. 3 54 e.n.e Fair.
-■ ,'jQ. J/ 74 do. do.
Wcdnejaay, 23. g 30. 22 54 N7 Fw7'
2 3°- g 5 E. Fair.
Ihurjday, 24. 6 30. 22 57 S.W. Fair.
" 3°- " 80 do. do.
Friday, 25. 6 30. 1 62 s.s.w Fan.
® 'j°• 0 82 do. Fair.
Saturday, 26. 7 29 . q 68 riwT FmT~
t e 9- S 82 do. Cloudy.
Sunday, 27 6 29. 8 69 S. W. CUudy.
2 2 9- 7 77 J do. / air
Philadelphia and Shrewfoury
STAG E,
By the route of Bordentown.
THE fubferibers inform the public, that from
and after the third day of June next, (and
to continue during the Cummer fcafon) a boat sets
of} from the Crocked-Billet wharf, in Philadel
phia, on Sundays and Thursdays in the monrhs
of June and Auguit : and on Sundays and Wcd
neldays in the months of July and September, and
proceeds to Bordentown.
The next morning comfortable carriages run
from Bordentown and Edington, in Shiewfbury \
then meet, and exchange pafiengers at the half
way-houfe, known by the name of the Burnt Ta
vern, and return the fame day to Bordentown and
Edington, aforementioned 1 And on the days fol
lowing the boat sets out from Bordentown to Phi
ladelphia.
The proprietors flatter tViemfelves this plan will
particularly accommodate those who do noc wifli
to be troubled with their own horses and carriages;
dnd will at the fame time afford them an agreea
ble variety, and make the journey more eafv than
travelling the whole distance by land.
The Fare from Philadelphia to
Edington, for Paflengers, - £.0 9
Goods per cwt. . 6
Way pafiengers and way goods, in proportion.
The public's molt obedient, humble ferrants
JOHN VAN EM BURGH,
DANIEL LOTT.
May 21(1,1792. iaw.tf.
Erratum—ln the Poetry, page 244 —Star**
5, line I—Add1 —Add the word 14 Pain." omitted by
Kcid' Tit.TriE MARKET GIRL.
[a real cbarafler.]
AT dawn of day, from short repose.,
Ai hours tbjt nsight all townfraen flume,
To caich our money, round or Iquare,
jn plain attire, and low-heet'd shoes,
She from the groves of Glouc'ller came
Withkailand cabbage—freth and fair.
At wharf, in travelling trim,
ArrivM an hour before the lun,
Young Charon's boat reteives her store
-Acrois the wavy wafle they ikim,
And thus they laughing come to town,
She, at the helm ; and he, the oar.
Full early taught the arts of gain,
No (harping knave that walks the street
Though verf'd in all the tricks of trade,
No city nymph, nor powder'd Twain,
With all their art, can hope to cheat
A Bargain from this country maid.
The market done, her cash fecur'd,
She homeward takes her wonted way
The painted chest behind the door _
(With many a rusty dollar ftor'd)
Receives the gainings of the day-
Laid up—to fee the fun no snore !
Sweet nymph ! why all this ceaseless
Such early toil and evening care,
This hoarding for the age to comr,
If he that court? you, courts in vain.
And you, regardless of an heir,
„Kefufe—alas !—to tafce him home !
May 24.
LONDON, March 15.
Although in all the German papers it i?
■circulated that the army of the French
emigrants is, as it were, entirely dispersed.
it is not less certain that every preparation
is making in silence for an attack on Alsace
towards the end of April or the beginning
•of May.
The Stadtholderian "Court, (of Holland)
altho' acting less openly than other powers,
is, notwithstanding, one of the principal re
sources of the noble emigrants. It supplies
them with the money they want: and it is
supposed that one banking-house alone has
already furnifhed them with above three
millions of florins, besides what has been
received from Rotterdam and the Hague.
There is besides a rendezvous of recruits, on
the frontiers of Gueldres, and scarcely a
week pafles in which as many as 20 men do
not proceed thither, in consequence of ha
ving been secretly engaged for-the service of
the princes. It is tine that these recruits
are, for themoft part, French, Liegeois, or
Brabantine deserters, upon whose fidelity
little reliance can be had, L and that they
must form in general very indifferent
troops, but this procedure does not less ex
ill, and prove that the electors have no seri
ous intention of abandoning the emigrants.
It is remarkable, that European monar
chical and European clerical power have
always gone hand in hand ; that is, where
the temper of the world was such that mo
narchy was fuffered to be on its high horse,
the clergy (after their own theocratical
Teign was at an end) were mounted upon
one very little, if at all, inferior; being, in
fa£t, the real directors of the movements oi
the great machine, behind the curtain. One
of their chief political steps towards the
support of monalrchy and despotism ha;
been their imprefling a belief upon m«n
kind that the whole race is vicious and de
graded by nature —for, if so, the several
nations of the world would, no doubt,
want religious quacks to put them in the
light way, who would not fail to persuade
them that non-resistance and paflive obedi
ence to tyrants were two preliminary qual
ifications forparadil'e '. When once a man i>
brought to believe that he is of a villainous
diabolical constitution, 5 as he came froir
the hands of nature, he is .a fit fubjeft foi
the ilave of a despot, or a mitred bishop :
aad may be prielt-ridden and king-riddei:
at the pleasure of either.
TIDES.
[Tranjlatcd From the French.~\
THERE was an ancient pretender to philo
sophy whose conllant faying was Malim cum A
rijictele errare quiam cum aliis recle /entire. —" !
iud latherlhink wrong with AiiftoUe, thanrigh,
with other philosophers."—There are many ir
the present age who in like manner are rigic
retainers to Newton, in points where even hf
himfelf tacidy acknowledges that he may b<
jniQaken.—Thus, in his Principia, when speak
ing of Lunar attraction on the waters of the ocean,
lie declares, that there imijl be fame hidden cause 11
nature, excLuftve of and independent of the attrac
tion of the moon, that occasions thai periodica
fwett in the ocean, called tides, in all their pheno
mena. —One great argument, and which leem:
to preclude the neccflity of many others again!)
the main principle of the Newtonian theory 01
tides, is there being no tides, or next to none,
in mod of the latitudes of the tori id .zone, tha
is to fay, from the equinoxial line to lat. 15
16 and even to 20 deg. north and south. —l!
the moon ailed on the ocean in the manner com
monly supposed, her influence would ceitainly
be moil peiceivable in thole parts direflly undei
her, and not in the high northern and foutherr
latitudes, as is conflantly found to be the cafe.
*~* For J 'ale at this Office., Sermons by
tfiA Rev'd Dr. William Linv, of N. i ork.
Frv.ce 5/7 1-2.
PROPOSALS
Fir printing if fubfalftiati, a New Wm t, to b /
entitled, The Young Mill-Wright and Miller's
Guide—lll four parts —By Olivij Evans.
Part J.
Of Mechanics and Hydraulics.
Chap. ]• Of gravity and e»diiicity, as the
foundation of all mechanics.
2. Of motion and its general laws.
3. Of the momentum, or force of bodies in
motion.
4. Of the motion of falling bodies.
5. Of the motion of bodies delcending on in
clined planes, and curved iur/aces.
6. Of the motion of projectiles.
7. Of circular motion and central forces.
8. Of the centre of magnitude, mot wn and
gravity.
9. Of the different mechanical powers.
10. OfFriCtioii.
11. Of the greatest effeCt poflible of any ma
chine.
12. Os-hydraulics, (hewing the laws of spouting
fluids, their weights, velocity and powers, undei
different heads.
Mechanics and Hydraulics will be treated on,
only so far .as is neceli'ary for the better under
itanding of the principles ana powers of water
mill*.
Part 11.
The yrung Mill-Wright's Guide : To contain,
Chap. 1. Rules and directions for computing
the power of the mill on the mill-stone, from
any power of the water on the water-wheel :
and the velocity of the (lone from any given ve
locity of the water-wheel.
2. Rules for finding the velocity of the watei
under any given head, and its power for any lize
:>f sate, with a table calculated icr the lame,
from 1 to 25 feet.
3. Rules for proportioning the motion of the
water-wheel to suit the velocity of the water, am
he motion and size of the ilone to suit the powe«
>f the water, so as to do the greatest work poiii
Die with said power.—With tables ready caicuia
ed, shewing the iize of the water-wheel, anc
lumber of cogs and rounds in eacn wheel, t*:
live the right motion to suit the size of the mill
tone and velocity of the water, under different
leads—in both double and Jingle geered mills.
4. Rules and directions for calculating the mo
ion of wheels and the number of e. gs to be pu;
n the wheels, to produce any motion required.
5. Rules for finding the diameter of the pitch
ircle, to suit any number of cogs, either with
he compafl'es only, or by figuies, with a tabK
cady calculated to iuit any number ot cogs fio.n
j to 72.
6. Of striking the water on the wheel, so as tc
lave the greatest force.
7. Of the wearing of cogs, with directions foi
naking cog-wheels to 1 alt much longer than the)
ommonly do..
8. Of gudgeons, Shewing t u e cause of theii
;etting loose, and remedies -eior, 1 ai>-
»roved methods of faftei.ing them in heavy lhafts.
9. Directions for giving the cogs the righ:
• itch to geer into one another, lt> as to run
mooth and easy.
10. Of the most advantageous conduction o!
nills, of one, two, three, or four pair of stones.
11.. A description of a merchant Hour mill ii
lerieCtion, on the most improved plan.
Part 111.
Tbe Young Miller''s Guide "To contain,
Chap. I. Oblervations on the principles 0:
;rinding, with directions for laying out the fur
ows in the stones, with a right inclination 0
Iraught to suit the size and velocity of the mill
tone, so as to let no flour escape until we.
;round.
2. Directions for picking, facing, hanging an<
harpening the stones, and tor grinding to th
ight finenefs, so as to clean the bran well, an.
■nake but little middlings, &c.
3. Of grinding garlicky wheat, and dreflin ;
he stones to suit the garlick.
4. Of grinding over the middlings, ftuff, (horts
kc. if necessary, to make the belt profit of tnsm
5. Of the quality of mill-stones, to suit ti.t
quality of the wheat.
6. Of boulting-reels, boulting-cloths, and di
eCtions for bouhing and inspeCting the flour.
7. General directions for keeping the mill
mi the bifinefs therein,in good order—Tile du:\
>f the miller.
Part IV.- To contain,
The whole of ©liver Evans's patent improve
nents on the art of manufacturing grain inr<
iour—Shewing them fully applied in both mei -
:hant and grift milis, with full directions foi
juilding and using the whole thereof—This work
.vi 11 require to be illustrated with about 50 or
igures,' which will be neatly engraved. The
ivhole to be printed on good paper, and neati)
sound.—The price cannot yet be afcertaineo,
jut (hall not exceed one dollar and an half to fob
Icribers, but lower if it can be afforded. Sub
fciibers for twelve copies to "have one gratis, anc
he usual allowance to Booksellers —When three
hundred copies are fubferibed for, the work wil
ue put to the press.
This work if encouraged, may be the means 01
laving much loft labour in building, and expense
in manufacturing : and may open the way sot
bringing the art of building mills, and manufac
turing flour, to great perfection. And as the
author will be afiifted by ieveral ingenious mil
lers and mill-wrights, and persons (killed in th:
different sciences, applicable to the work, he
flatters himfelf, that he will be enabled to oft V.i
much ufeful matter on this subjeCt, which has
hitherto been t eated only theoretically.
Subfcrrptions will be taken in by most of the
principal booksellers and flour faCtors in the
United States j therefore, any Miller inclining
to encourage this wojk may fend his name to
his flour faCtor, and the bock will be lodged there
for him, when complied.
May 26, 1732.
PROPOS ALS
For Printing by Subfct iption,
PUBLIC VEPORTS
FROM T H
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
OF T H F.
Government cf the United States
CONGRESS,
Commencing with the prejtnt Government, end, end
ing with the clofc of the SrJ/ion of May 179 a.
THIS work is intended 10 be printed in 011
loluftie o£lavo, estimated to contain between fiv
ind fix hundred pages, and will be dehveied t
übferibersin boards atOne Dollar and a hall.
A complete collc£lion cf the Repoits into
onvenient and portable volume has been lug
relied 10 the publishers by Several Members 0
Dongrefs and other gentlemen, and they areno\
letermined to proceed 011 with the woik, provi
led a competent number of fublertbcis appea
0 patronize the undertaking.
Sublcriptions are received by CKILDS am
>WAINE, the publishers, No. 2C9, Market
beet, Philadelphia, and by the priucipal Book
1 Hers in the United States.
May 24.
Jnjl imported in the Jhip Molly, Captain Pitt
from LiJbon —
A few Pipes and Quarter Calks of
LISBON WINE,
v ar superior in quality to what is g> n rally impor
ted ; andafew Laics oj the very b'Jl CORKS,
To be Sold by
GEORGE MEA DE,
Vho has aljo fct js/e, Choiee three and fine years ol
.Bill ot L:<rhange Madeira Wine,
By the Pip-, or Quarter Cask,
LONDON MARKET MADEIRA WINI
five years old by the pipe, or-quart r Calk
Choice old Sherry WINE by the quartercal 1
Vlefs BEEI'" o a fup:rior quality and Inch as 1
fit tor an Ealt India Voyage put up i\
this city.
Choice firfl quality BEEF do.
Do Second do.
BOSTON BEEF equal to any from tlia
country.
Turlington Pork of the firft quality
undone hundred and fourteen h/ids of
F i. A X SEED, &c. &x.
May 16 2 a. w. lm
THIS DAY ARE PUBLISHED,
[In o£tavo—Price sfg.
T H E
LAWS of Ihe United States.
Pa fled at the
First Setfiqn of the Second Congress.
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY.
To which are added the Ratifications of lbs
Amendments to the Constitution, by the levera
aiifying States; the Arraiflice between the Um
ed States ana Great-Britain ; and the Treaty o
J eace and Friendihip with the Cherokees, which
viih tbofe in the other ottavo volume complete:
ill the exifiing treaties.
Philadelphia, printed by CHILDS £3 S W AINE
Printers oj the Laws of the United States, ant
fold by them, at their office, No. 209, Market-
Street ; also by the principal Bookjellers in tk
city.
*3* The I.aws are sewed in blue paper, anc
ire intended to be bound up with those of tin
lext fefiion, so as to make one volume, com
jrifing all the Laws paflcd by the Second Con
rrefi, when a complete Index will be added lo
joth fcflions.
The L A W S of the
Three SelTions of the First Congress,
With a complete Index, in one volume ottavo
nay be had as above.
Philadelphia, May 17th, 1792.
This day is publifhcd and to be fold by
RANCIS BAILEY, No.i6t,Markct-ftreer
a;id at the ? riucit»l Bcckitiicis in this city,
' (Price One Dollar)
A GEOGRAPHICAL CLOCK,
Calculated for the meridian of ibis city ; exit
ittivg at one view the time of day or night u- eve.
„ir,of the glebe-, W j,ba full ascription*
of the clock and the planisphere of the earth
rid a copious Index of alt the principal Kingdom
jiands, and Cities in the -world, -with the long,tut
,nd latitude reckoned from the meridian if Pbila
telpbia. 4 Iwork net less curious than entortainir^
ind inftrufiiue to those who a' e not acquainted n it,
reography, as it eharly explains the fundementa
Principles of that fc'ur.ce.
Philadelphia, May 23 d. 4f.lii.w-
THE fulfcribrr begs leave to acquaint hi
friends and the public in general, that I
has removed from Pennington to that noted taven
and ferry flard opposite to Eaflcn> cn the Jf'Jc
fide of the Delaware., He has provided bimfe/j
wirh a good and fafe Jet of fe'ry-trafts, and f i r
pcfts keeping the Left entertainment for man am
hcrfe. Every attention Jhall be paid to gentlenw
travelhrs and others by the public''s mrfl tbedien,
r>nd very humble servant,
TUOMAS EVLLMJN.
May Bth> jwi<iw
FOR. BRISTOL,
THE SII!?
Birmingham Packet,
LEESON SIMMON'S, Mailer ;
f,?TUI> .».. V * r t r ■
. > i cina. kabie fafl fuller, her cargo is all readv ;
nevertheless to accommodate thole who may be
tlifpoled to put freight on board, it will be taken
iShe will fail in a few riavs. Theownex
are determined that the ship (hall leave Brillol
with the fii II fall {hips.
For freight or paflag apply to the Captain oa
board ly.ng at Walnut street Wharf, or
GiiORGE MEADE.
Fhofe who have goods on board are earncftly
requeued to enter them, takeout their permit,
and give the m ceflary ions to their porter
to attend the (hip. May 16. aa* 1 "
IVaJliington. in the Territory of Columbia.
A PRE MI U M
OF 500 dollars, or a medal of that value,
at the option of the party, will be giv
en by the CommifEoners of the Federal
Buildings to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July next, (hall produce to
them the mod approved plan, if adopted by
them, lor a President's house to be erected
in this city. The lite of the building, if
the artist will attend to it. will of course
influence the afpe£t and outline of his plan,
audit's destination will point out to him
the number, iize, and distribution of the
apartments. It will be a recommendation
oi any plan, if the central part of it may be
detached and erected for the present, with
the appearance of a complete whole, and
be capable of admitting the additional parts,
in future, if they shall be wanting. Draw
ings will be expected of the ground plat%
elevations of each front, and feetiona
through the building in such directions as
may be necessary to explain the internal
Itruiture ; and an estimate of the cubic feel:
ot brickwork, composing the whole mass of
the walls. The Commissioners.
March 14.
IVaJlungton, it the Territory of Columbia.
A PRE M I U M
OF a lot in this City to be designated by
impartial judges and joodoilars ; or a
medal of that value, at the option of the
party, will be given by the Commissioners
of the Federal Buildings, to the person,
who, before the fifteenth day of July 1792,
lhall produce to them the molt approved
plan, if adopted by them, for a Capitol to
be erected in this city, and 250 dollars, or
a medal for the plan deemed next in merit
to the one they (hall adopt. The building
to be of brick, and to contain the following
apartments, to wit. , c ~ .
A conference room 7 Sufficient to
A room for the lie- [ "commodate
prefentatives J P er
\ lobby or antichamber to the latter. '
A. Senate room of I2CO square feet
area.
\n antichamber or lobby to the last. J k w
[ 2 rooms of 600 square feet area, each, for
:ommittee rooms and clerks offices, to be
jfhalf the elevation of the former. Draw
rigs will be expected of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and fettions
through the building in such directions as
may be neceflary to explain the internal
ftru&ure, and an estimate of the cubic feet
as brickwork composing the whole mass of
the walls. The Commissioners.
March 14.
TO THE PUBLIC.
T»HE Subfxriber has it in contemplation soon tt
declinc his present bujincjs—and hiving on
bar.d a considerable quantity of Juperfne fecotid and
tlapic cloibiy together ivith a variety of othtr arti
cles in his way, prepofei to Jell them at the fa! Living
rcduc dprices- V I Z 9
Btjt Superfine navy bluff. 34*,
Ditto. ditto. Scarlet 361.
Common colours fuperfne 32*.
jElajiic Jlripes 9 s *
London buff and white eaffimers I 5/6.
Ditto, coloured do, 155.
Torkjhire do, do, X 3/6.
Striped toil ends 145.
Rattir.ets 3s.
Striped Nankeens 3/4.
A variety of waificoat[napes prcportionably hw p
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London bfjlJilk bofe, from 22/6 to 245.
The above goods have been mo/ily imported from
',ne of the frj} Mercantile houses in London, and
are of an equ.il quality to any imported into Ameri
ca j they will be fold per piece or fmallcr quantity
us may bcjl Juit thepurchafers $ by tb'publics mr'jt
bumble fir-vant) JOHN SUEpHERD,
No. 3 5 outh Fourth-jlrcet.
Any person disposed to purchase the whole
of the above stock, may also have on reafonabli
terms his present dwelling house, together wirh
the ft ore, a moic eligible situation for business i«
the tailor's line is not to be found in this cit\.
The advantage of this business being so well eila
bliflied by the proprietor will be very great, and
from weil known fa&s, needs no comment
A lease of fix years may be had of the house.
May 14, 2aw. tf.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAINF,
AT TH£ I R OFFICE, NO. 209, HIGH-STR fc » V
riZAR FIFTH-STREET,
Ft* 11 AfeftLP.tal
tz (V
5.3
a o
< c
£
rr
C C
? a*
f5