Vol. I.
£\Ve are favoured by a correspondent with
the folio ■ ing copy of a Memorial fro*?
the New York line of the late army, to
Congref , and which is to he presented
early in the approaching session. The
plain truths wliicli it modeftiy, tho' for
cibly, details, arc such, our correspon
dent thinks, as mult fink deep ifito the
heart that lias taken jutlice for its guide,
and has not yet became callous to the
feelings of gratitude towards those from
whom, under Providence, all cur public
blcfiin<rs are deiived—The committee
for promoting theobje&s of < his memori
al is compoled of the following gentle
men : Geo. Clinton,EiehezerStevens, Ma
virtus IVidet, Samuel Craig, G. Leacruft,
'John F Vacher, Jofepb Brov:n, isaac
Z.edjard Nath. Laurence, j
To the Honorable the SENATE and
HOUSE- fREPR SEN TATIVES
of tile United tatcsof America, in Con
grels aifembled.
The Memorial of the OrricEßS, nowre-
Jid'urg in the Jldle of I. ew-York, of the
late American Army, in behalf
of them fives and their bre
thren, theffillers of the
(aid army—
PtfpeufuUy reprefenls,
THAT your memorialiils, i .pelled
by a' laudable zeal for their country,
entered the late army of the United States,
without paying any regard to felfifh or
pecuniary thinking the ser
vice io be only temporary ; but finding
the duration of the war to be much longer
than they at fir ft expe&ed, and that they
were it,akin i; a ficrifice of property, do
medic ease and h:.ppinef3, encountering
the rigours of the field, the perils and vi
cifliUiJes of war, to obtain buffings which
f virvy ciu'zt nuwuli enjoy in C4H«rnon *»:th
tht miclves, without any adequate c mpen
fation, i>. fdtfie measure their ardor cooled ;
Con-jJ ess b-ing fiilljr'fa isfitd that further
arrangements were neCvfT:i;y r , agreed on
ieiti'in stipulation , which were a proper
anil ,fi*tisfadtory provision. The army,
confidci tiy relying on the plighted faith
«ieircoun!ty for this provilion, have
ired hunger, poverty, and want, wi li
a ht'tirrtiur ; and with cheerfulnefs have
encountered danger which their profefiion
demanded, believing that at iottie future
period a generous public would pourthe oil
of gratitude into their wounds, and cause
theirgrey hair; td rejoice.
They take an honell pride in the part
they have ailecl, and feel a gratitude to
Nature and Providence, for haying put it
in the r power to be of some use to man
kind.
At the expiration of the war, so glori
ous to the ca:Te of humanity, their ac
counts were liquidated, the balances afcer
tained, and certificates iflued ; yet, as no
adequate funds we e provided for pay
ment, such pay was viftonary.
The necelfities o( the army requiring
a prompt payment, to enable them to re
sume their former occupations in life, on
which principle was founded the basis of
all their flipulations with government, for
want of which they were obliged to part
with the evidences of their well-earned
dues for whatever public opinion flamped
on them : what this was before the re
foilrces of bur country could be brought
in operation for their discharge, need not
here be mentioned. Shadows have been
giveti your tr.emorialifls, whilst the fub
ftat-ce has been gleaned by a set of meh
v.'hose comparative met its it is not for us
to draw. The circumstances of a country
taay sometimes make it necefiary that ihe
voice of humanity and gratitude be facri-
JSced for a while to that of policy,
If other motives than those of justice
«ould be tequifite on this occasion, no na
tion cotil.J ever feel Wronger those of gra
tude. Where is the man to be found
who wishes to remain indebted for the de
Fence ot his own ptrfonand property to the
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhcd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum
WEDNESDA Y, October 10, 1792.
exertions, the bravery, and Wood of others,
without making one generous effort to re
pay the debt of honor and gratitude ?
The debt now due the army is the price of
their blood) and of those feats which you
now have the hotlor to nil as the represen
tatives of four millions of free fellow citi
zens ; it is therefore more than a common
debt; it is a debt of honor, which never
can be cancelled, until fairly difcharired.
If in (lice, good faith, honor, gratitude,
and all other qualities which enoble the
chara&er of a nation, and fulfil the ends
of government, be not the fruits of our
establishment, the great cause which we
have engaged to vindicate will be d'lho
nored and betrayed, and its patrons and
friends insulted by the votaries of tyranny
and usurpation.
Your memorialists beg leave to fu'bj in
an extradt of a letter, written by our illuf
trious and much beioved Cummander in
Chief, to Congress, dated at Newburgh,
March 18, 1783 —" For if, bejlaes theJim
pie payment of their wages, a farther com
penjation is not due to the fufferings and fa
crifeces of the officers, then have I been mifla
len indeed—lf the whole army hive not me
rited whatever a grateful people can beflow,
then have I been beguiled by prejudice, and
buil! opinion On th bifis of error—lf this
country should not, in the event, perform every
thing which has been requefled in the late me
morial to Congress, then will my belief becc-.ne.
vain, and the hope that has been excited void
of foundation —And if, as has been f'ggefled
fur thepurpofe cf inflaming their paffiuns, the
officcis of the army are to be the only fufferers
by this rex+ution —If, retiring from the field,
they are to grow old in poverty, wretched'
n-fs, and contempt —If they are to wade thro'
the' vile mire of dependency, and owe the mi
serable remnant of that life to charity, which
his h:the.rtti. b :.i spent in honor • thenJball J
have learned what ingratitude is, then (hail
I have realized a tale which will im
litlter every moment of my life : but I am
under no fu h apprdxnfions ; a country re.
fctied by their arms from impending ruin, will
never tcsve unpaid tht debt cf gratitude."
Your raemoi iahfls confefs they felt them
selves much hurt at the silence Ihewn them
in the late funding system ; they, however,
iutjmitted to it, until the resources of our
country fljouli be ascertained : its abilities
to discharge all its debts, more efpccially
those which have been incurred in its de
fence, cannot now be doubted—an incli
nation, your memorialiils flatter them
selves, will not be warning; particularly
as.the saving made to government by this
system, out of the origin il contra&s, will
be more than adequate to their inoit san
guine wishes.
We have no doubt, from thffe confede
ration?, that Congress will do that jultice
toth'e late army which (hall belt accord with
the circumfiance of their cafe, and the ho
nor of the United States.
And, as in duty bund, your memori
alists shall ever pray, See.
In behalf of the ht'e Line of the slate of
New-2 01 iin the service of the United
States,
EBENEZER STEVENS
New Tori, Sept. 1792.
Gentlemen,
I 1 HE officers of the late army redding 1 in
this ft ate, were convened on the 4th day of
July last, to take into confiderat on com
munications from different flates.onthefub
jeft of the unfatisiied deb? due from govern
meut to the late arm)'. —which meeting was
sojourned to the next day,when certain re
solutions were adopted, and a committee
appointed, a copy of which we herewith
transmit you. Another general meeting
of the offifirs, on the fame fubjeft, was
called by the said committee, to be held
on the third day of September inft. when
his Excd. George Clinton, and Capt. Sa
muel Craig, were added to the committee,
and Joseph Brown, Esq. was chosen our
agent to solicit our claim, and present the
inckiied memorial to Cor.gref6, early in
thcif ncx' session We have every reason
to exped success will attend our applica
tion.
We have the honor to be,
Gentlemen,
„ Your moil obedient servants,
GEORGE CLINTON,
EBENItZLR STEVENS,
jfe M-ARW ;*"WTLLETT,
: A'itftlSL CRAIG,
G. LKACRAFT,
JOHN F. VAC HER,
JOSEPH BROWN,
ISA C LED YARD,
nath. Laurence.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Mr. Frsneau,
I HAVE read with fedulotis attention
all the -late d'feuflions about the poli
tical doctrines of the Secretary of the
1 realm v, (the political opinions of public
men (jei-r.g of pub ic importance to every
ana have carefully gone over hfs
repots, so saras relating to or declaratory
of hi; particular opinions ; as well as re
peatedly perused the various published ex
tract.; therefrom with the comments ; and,
upor the whoie, I think it bnpojftble tor
candour to d ny, or for prudence to at
tempt to explain aivny, the following po
fitio-f, or the deductions flow ng there
from; Frorp bis own fheiving, it is clearly
!lis < piaiojj,
i "-it, tho' he cannot accede to the po
sition. " in the fau'ude in which it is J'orrw
t'wr:' 'lid down, that public debts are public
bleJJtKttho' " there may be a plethora in
he -'y politic," in this refped, "as in
the natural body"; tho' ''there maybe a fcate
of things in which every such artificial ca
pital is unneceiTary."
Yet that in a certain latitude, short of
what is fomttimes contended for, " at a cri
tical point," which it is impoffi Te to doubt
the exiilence of ; and in the ordinary
Fcate of things,public debts ?re public, blefjlr.gs;
and particularly, that •' the proper fund
ing of theprtfer.t debt [amounting to a
bove /evenly millions] will render it [not
t' l - funding, paying, or providing for, but
said debt it/elf ] a national biej/itig."
If these opinions seem to be contradic
ted in any manner or degree, by the o'her
observations of this officer, • n rt mely, that
" the creation of debt should always be ac
companied wi'h the means of extinguish
ment," and " that there should be a con
(lant effort to reduce the present and a
void new debts, as far as may be," it is
most fairly to be explained, by alio\i ing for
a more cautious language latterly, produ
ced by the public alarm taken at such doc
trines ; and also by the expectation, that
there will be no fear of having enough of
thin national blejiug, " as the vicifiitudes of
nations beget a perpetual tendency to the
actumuldtinn of ebt" ; and "as there is
too J} rang a property in the government
of ■ P.tions, to anticipate and mortgage the
resources of pojicrily, rather than encoun
ter the inconveniences of a present in
crease of taxes.
O&ober 8. TRUTH.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE
MONG the various tricks used by a
J/.L certain fadtian, made up chiefly of
the speculators, and their tools and pa
trons, to irnpofe on the people, one has
been, to call themselves the best friends of
the covernment, and particularly of the
illustrious person at the head of it. Now,
be it remembered, that when the Bank B:l]
was in suspense, and a final loss of it was
feared, the ranci'rous Juggcjlior.s and da
ring menaces, conditioned on that event,
which broke out both in this city and
New-York, amon;r the fx per cent fpccti
iators, and a few others, predicted the most
Numb. 99.
open and raging war on the Prefaler.t, in
cafe their ravenous, insatiable a.ppetites
should have been disappointed of the ex
petted prey, and clearly (hewed what fort
of friendlhip their's is, both to the govern,
ment apd him ; and how it will turn out
when brought to a disinterested trial.
CAUTION.
Philadelphia, Oct. 6th, 1792.'
[I'rovithe Leydefi Gazette, of July 31. J
THE opinions of the Swiss are divided
fn refpeft to France The decifioa
of the diet of Frauenf.sld proves, however,
that those cantons inimicaljy inclined are
iefs considerable in power, than those thai
entertain favourable intentions. Bade,
Zurick, Lucerne, Valais, and a part ofthe
leagued Griions are decidedly for Fr,-.ncef
The existing government of Geneva, al
ways fidiag in opinion with Berne and the
court of i urin, notwithstanding its protcf»
tatioris of neutrality, may afTord feme
room for apprehension. Under the frivo»
lous pretext of supporting public tranquil
lity, which they iuppofe in danger, the
Genevans are making dispositions to re
ceive Sardinian troops into the territory
ofthe republic. The walls'of the city are
repairing, barracks getting read#, and a
bout 3000 Sardinian troops are ftntioned
atCarrouge and St Julian, about half a
league from Geneva. The vicinity of
these troops is the more dan<; rous, a»
from hence to Lyons the whole country i$
open. A drift eye ought therefore to be
kept that the Genevans do not <>psn theiY
gates to the Sardinian forces; on.whicli
fubjedt some ilrong repref. .nations have
aiicady been made.—Of a:l the powers of
Europe, the friend/hip of Great Britain is
the moit dcfireable to the free and'repene.
ra'ecf French. The alii mceof the ;wo na
tions, could it be realized, would give
them a decided preponderance in the poli
tical scale, and the other powers of Eu
rope would to no purpose league them
selves against the liberties of France. Since
the revola ion, the old antipathy of the'
two nations is in a great mcafure done a
way, and the better they become acquaint
ed, the more they frem disposed to an al
liance. By the notification of neutrality
from that court, it would seem that the
Britilh miniftrv had changed their fyltern.
1 ne national conduot of Fiance towards
Britain has been most scrupulously cauti
ons, so ns not to give the ieaft cause of
complaint ; the molt ready justice has
been done is all disputes between indivi
duals of the two nations ; the treaty of
commerce has been faithfully observed ;
and in short every thing done that might
e.x.bhfh a firm alliance for the happmefs
of both kingdoms—-TiJl now, a perfect
neutrality seemed to be the fyitem of the
llates general ot the United Provinces, but
the reinforcements of Aiiltrian troop*
and the PrufSans / that have marched
into those provinces, would lead us to sup
pose that their neutrality is dehifive, atul
that Holland is granting a real, though
secret protection to the enemies of France,
either in transferring to the Auftriari
fcrvice those Geiman regiments in her
pay, in purchasing arms and ammunition,
or by preventing the exportation of arti
cles of that kind intended for Francc.—'
T here are some other powers whufc
frteere friendfhip for France is proof to
all court-intrigue. Among these are rec
koned the United States of America. The
fiinilarity of their situation, and princi
ples,and a congenial love of liberty, will
always constitute the firm friendfhip 6f
brothers and fiiends between the French
and the Americans. Unfortunately, the
distance that intervenes, and the fcantv
limits of A merican population, will wholly,
preclude France from expecting any-mi'li.
tary f.fliftanee from that quarter. But it is
in the power of those States to render us
affiilance not less valuable : and in facili
tating fupphes to the colonies in thetiLinds, in these Jays of dfftrefs and trouH*,'
they will fnfficiently acquit themf Ives, 111 J
regard to Fran e, of their debt of gratitude
and friendfhip.—Poland has shewn the'
lame energy aud contempt of danger in
the attainment of liberty, as France ? and
lias, indesd, the fame enemies to coir end
with. These cirmtftflanees bind her ir,-
dilfolubly to France, and might fcrve as
*he faafis of an alliance, were not the dif
lance of ths t\Yo countries so great. To
reap the blefEngs of such an alliance, an
intermediate power ihould exist between
Poland and France,whofe political interests
are the fame, 3nd by means of which the
communications from one to the other
Plight be made more easy, and attack*
■upon the enemy more expeditious and
certain. This intermediate power can be
no other than the Turk, the old and faith
ful ally of Poland and France for upwards
of 'wo centuries. There is 110 doubt that
the warmth of former friendlhip between
Turkey and France is somewhat abated,
an well as the hatred that fubfilled between
the Turks aud the two imperial eourts
But it will be at all times easy to revive
both the one and the other, and to recall
the Turk to his raal interefls—one thing
is certain, that the Porte can never forget
the fa':rinces fi'.e bas been obliged to
make, bolh before and during the late
war.——Such is the lituation of Europe.
This /ketch presents to view many ene
mies, few faithful allies, and still fewer
■friends—bir the union of feutiment that
is every gai .ing more ana more
ground in France, will at length work the
utter ruin of that diabolical league of
powers that now threatens her—courage
"will arif< in the hearts of all true pa riots,
from aconfcicKifnefsof the internal ltrength
of the nation* and which will prevent a
fpint of despondency on the one hand,
and an imprudent fccurity on the other.
£/Vtw» the Virginia Gazette.]
JftxJlTrmi, Virginia, Sept. to, no 2.
Tt THE PEOPLE.
WHEN I endeavoured to rouse the fpi
fit of Virginia, and Simulate an
enquiry into her own fundamental princi
ples and narara! rights, by the (hort essay
wh : ch has been published, I neither expect
ed a republication in other papers, nor
wished to provoke the malignity and df
tontent of those who blindly admire, or
intereftediy support every congressional act:
But fnlce it has been so, aad the watchful
Argus of aristocracy, and advocate forcou
g'-effional impofirions and (peculations, ha
given an alarm through the medium of his
minijlertai, deceiving, anti. republican paper,* and
since I have thus been forced into difcuf
fio'-.s on things, the minute k'to'.vie !ge of;
■which I acquiretvirh difficulty, I /hail con- !
vey to the pub! c, as tails me, from time to j
time, a detail and make those de- !
Auctions and inference* which are rational j
find obvious.
It is true that the term/peculating Congress.
•which has been ejfmjivtly tiled, may be a'p/i- j
ed to the Cougref o America—it is-a!ft> h
general exp. elHon, and may be applied to
any alfembly or meeting of people : But I
neither aik nor vvi.h to be Shielded under
this general co lu .>n , because, not only
coinmo.i -port, but uofitive fact, lead 'o ;;
din. . applica.iO.i, at left:! to
members.
Previous to the alTimption of the late
dcbn (a meal ■ "e >v!i:ch .vas evidently cai
culatt-d to enlarge the field of fp< cuUt'on
witiii:. L.ie federal vortex, and to exact
fr< . v irgin.a a,i apportionment of the debts
■which ought to be paid by other {fate,,
without any reco npence or credit, eitner
for the heavy ;a ces which the people had
patiently paid nnce the peace, or the very
large fuuu which were given to the requi
sitions ot the old congref,) many of the
raembers who were theretofore of indigent
circumstances, have evidently, without the
intervention of iiny obviotts or judiliable e
vent, taken the.r ftan.i among the men of
wealth and pecu.iiaiy iatrigue. After tlie
lirlt fa lure in the hoiife of reprefentativqs,
a species 01 speculating bribery and indirect
corruption was set on foot, such as never
offered in any •thcrcountry, and for which
every member of either house. who was
directly or indirectly concerned, ought to
be eternally itigmatized.
Instruments ox writing were prepared by
certain favorite brokers in Ne.v-York,
which invited a mt nber to subscribe to the
amount of 100,000 dollars, 011 the very fa
vorable terms that the fubferibing member
might be intereited in the iflue of that ftim ;
the broker would advance all which was
necefwry to purchase it, without fee or re
ward ; the member to take the nik of loss,
and to be entitled to all the gain. At that
time cue itate debts (particularly ot North-
Carolina) were low, perhaps at zf 6 or if
in the pound. The aflbnipt.on by congress
thuo secured by a tew recruits, would im
mediately increase their value to twenty
* Mr, Fetjn»'s Catntttt of the United States.
(liiliings more per p&und; the people of
the south were ignorant of Cotigreflional
intrigue, or of the new fangled dcitrine of
aflumption ; but the speculators, brokers,
3cc. hat! previously concerted their pian in
private conclave: Pilot boats and expref
les were dispatched to different quarter.;,
so that before the promulgation of the law,
and when official characters were writing,
public letters that it would be rejefttd, a
very great proportion of the public paper
was pickcd up by their agents. Public cre
dit then became the political text, and the
honest opponents to the nefarious trick,
were borne down by numbers. By this fad
and reprelienfible event, a lew have accu
mulated immense wealth ; while exacli
ons, excises, Handing armies, and other im
positions and appreflions, rendered more
impalatabie by the pride and insolence c;f
the futtcefsful, present them.elves to every
prophetic mind.
I will not personally charge any indivi
dual of congress with this duplicity of con
duel ; but when I reflect on the original po
verty of some of the members; fid! si.id
them oppoiing the affumpt on, then advo
cating it, as if by divine infpiration —when
I fee them largely interested in the differ
ent flocks, aflbciating, negociatAjg, and
trafficking with men who live on the losses
and misfortunes of o' iters; and a.so
the policy of the New- York broicer , 1 lan
not tail to conclude that some of them are
guilty, nor that such members are unlit for
future pub ; :c trnfts.
Although 1 may continue to offend those
who will not fee, or feeing, cannot feel
these impolitic.!.-, it doe* not therefore fol
low that they ihould not be communicated
to the public : And although wc cannot b
able to redress the past, we may, by avoid
ing those from whom they have proceeded,
alfb avoid ni w and future injuria .
Thus, a« to the origin of the afTnmption —
rhfi law being passed—the certificates be ng
purchased—and drawn to the great oe itre
of (peculation, such public men as had en
gaged in the pUrchase, had two objects be
fore them —indigence and ruin on one
hand—wealth and power on the o'her.
The barriers of reprefeutative confidence
being broken down by tlie fpecnlation,
they, without much difficulty, would em
brace every new objefl which prefeilted it*
felf by which loss would be prevented, of
gain made : Hence arose heavy duties, cx
cife. See The people of America, perftia
ded that thole in whom they had confided,
could not be guilty cf any latent conduit
calculated to enrich rhetnfelves at the cx
peiice of their constituents, and beiieving
mat congress could never bottom a law on
the opinion that a pubi c debt was a public
oleffing, or that the exigencies of govern
ment Ihould be equal to h\»r resources, pa
tiently acquiesced. and would still acqui
esce to more difguflful exactions even than
the extife, if the opinion of political neceflity
and actual exigency would authorise them.
But when we fee an army set on foot,
which in two years will <colt three millions
of dollars, will deprive the community of
the labour of five thou fa nd men, and the
greater portion of them valuable mecha
nics ; when half, or more than half of the
expence will have accrued before the troops
can be brought to the scene of action ;
when we know that this army is to fight
Indian,; {tf tkey cah catch them) or be a uie
lefs burthen on the community, our enqui
ries are put oil float, and at once beget
complaints.
If the temper of the Indians was found
so extremely predatory that nothing ihort
of offenfive war could check it, why was
not one tenth, or one fifth of the ftim ap
propriated to those people who live near,
and have beenufedto Indian warfare, who
have, without the aid of million , without
trie wifli to have a regular army, eftablilhed
themselves in despite cf those very Indian ,
•n a wilderness ; and h've so eucreafld n
miinberi, as to take rank in the political
world. Yes. the people of Kentuckey have
do.ie this and if either remuneration for
actual services, or compensation for the at
tempt, had been authorised, the volunteers
of that country would either have extort
ed peace from them, or forced them be
yond the limits of the federal territory ;
but if the mm.lters of the federal govern
ment had done this, that wealth of which
I have fpokeri, not having its full value
without power, would have rulfed in their
hands; a great portion would have had no
intrinsic Value ; wealth was got; power
was wanted ; the army and the excise pre
sented themselves; the objects, being plea
ling, were embraced. But the genius of
America is awake, and I trull will never
more be lull'd to sleep, until every feed of
ariltocracy is rooted out, and until it is u
niversally known that man has not auy na
tural prescriptive right to rule and govern
his fellow MAN.
HENRY BANKS.
[The ftibfequent Address to the Republicans
oftlie United States (under the lignature
of Columbus) appeared in the New-York
journal of the 3d inltant.]
IT will be evident to every observer, that
there are two parlies at present existing
111 the United States—One composed ofper
fons who are endeavouring to lay the- foun
dation of a monarchical government, by in
ttilling into tlx minds of the people, fenti
raents inconiifleni and unfriendly to repub
licanism.
The other class connfts of the real Tup -
port?rs of independence, friends to e
qual rights, and warm advocates of a tree,
elective government. The firft description
ire generally known by the title of Aristo
crats, the latter will ever retain the glori
ous name of Republicans.
As a free government must reft entirely
on the will of the people, and as this will
can only be obtained through their repi'e
fentatives, i: earnestly behoves the citizens
o be watchful and cautious in the choice
of ilieir servants ; careful of the men' they
place iu the firft offices of government, and
attentive to all their proceedings. Should
you discover an inclination in any of your
representatives to betray the sacred troll
confided to them, and deviate from the ge
nuine principles of freedom, instantly place
others in their room, nor flitter a single
person to remain in office who is favoura
ble to arifto.ratic eftaWtfhments.
It is generally Wlieved, that the electors 1
wll be unanirwmis in the choice of the Pre-
Mem for the etifhingfout' years. No one-,
it is preftimed, will helitate to declare,
that the present worthy chief magistrate is
iuft'y entitled to the confidence and efteefli
of every American.
Some fupoofe .he present Vice President
\vH! be hard run at t!ie next election.
The Atppo.'tefs of totterinq; monarchy.'
and the friend* of different orders in the na
tion, would certainly wish to bring for- '
ward a man whose principles were conge-
I nial to their own If fiich a character
i could possibly be foturd, either at Foft-on,
N. York. Philadelphia, Baltimore, or Chat
i lefton, be would undoubtedly, obtain the
fuffrajres of the well born, and t!:e cringing
; congratulations of the anti-republicans.
But 1 trust the friends of liberty will
ratly round the altar of freedom, and dis
appoint the expeflations of their enemies-.
; Many look to John Hancock, of MafTachu
fetts, others to fames Madison, of Virginia,
and not a few imagine, that George Clin
ton, of New- York, will oe the fitteft person
to p elide in the senate of the United State .
The republicans should endeavour, by ail
•means, to unite, or else the foes of a free
government will tindoubtely furceed in
chooling one friendly to their own fchf-mes
! Freemen, be aitive and unanimotif in
the cause of liberty ; recollect that much
isyet to be done ; the tree moll be pruned
otthe poifo;tous twigs that at pref?nt fpno
ap and retard its gro"wth, or it will w.ther
and decay. Lop orfevery unfruitful b.anch.
and root out of the foil of freedom all the
nox'.ous weeds of ariliocracy. Attend t
the voice of the fairgoddef-. Independence,
i wlto once called upon you with a loud
voice , but now gently whifpets, that Li
berty is in danger.
With art eagle's eye Watch the gradual
approach of slavery, and ever repel the
a (Faults as mad ambition.
Translations from the Ltyden Gazette, fcontinued
j Jim cur fa, er cf Oct. 2 d tto July -7.
EverfinCe the reign of Ferdinand 4th, the
French have been but on indifferent terms
with the TtuoSicilies The revolution ha not
abat<u the mifunderftinding. At Naples it
w?.s that -French merchants and even tra
vellers were firft arrested and interrupted
on account of their revolution principles;
and here it was that the emigrants were
received with open arms, and even atlifted
to molest and vex their countrymen there
reiident. Her war establishment is now o;i
| foot, with adelign by no means equwocal.
As to the Pope, he is become the irreconci
lable enemy of France. Irritated at the
enforcement of the decrees against the
, clergy, at the loss of his influence, and the
tribute* that were heretofore paid :o the
chancellor of Rome, he has made the most
urgent demands for the re-union of Avig
j uon to the papal fee. For this purpose he
| has addressed every court in hurope, and
I has even applied to Rulfia for afliitance in
re-inflating him. He refnfes to receive at
his court any French agent, under any di
plomatic title whatever. So thrtt France
may conlider herfelf as at actual variance
with the papal power, who is now only
waiting for the attack of the temporal
princes upon France, to join them with the
holy thunders which are now lying ready
for fulmination in the chambers of the Va
tican. Ihe republic of Venice has decla
red to the courts of Vienna and Turin,
that " she perlifls in her former principles
of neutrality, but nevertheless, altho' ha
ving concluded a treaty of peace with the
regency of Tunis, she will not disarm her
fleet, but will engage to exclude all armed
French veflels from th« Adriatic." Her
neutrality is therefore fallacious, since in
this cafe the Austrian ports of Triejlc and
Fiume, lituated on the Oulph are to be de
fended from molestation. Genoa, Jlo
rence, and Malta have declared a perfect
neutrality. Spam seemed to be separating
herfelf entirely from har connexions with
France, under the ministry of Count Florida
Blanca. He it was that urged the famous
edict againll foreigners, an« authorized e
very species of that ill usage which the
French for a time experienced in Spain ;
but lince his difmliion and the appointment
of Count d'Aranda to the ministry, the per
secution has cealed. Jlie winifter ot France
has been allowed t« make his jut requisi
tions ; rhe greater part hyve been agreed
to, and it is reafonabie to hope that the de
lays and evasive answers he has experien
ced. are not in any degree to be attributed
to Count d'Aranda, but to Tome other (un
known) catife. From the evasive answers
and innuendoes that have been given, we
may suppose the Spanish court rather incli
ned to neutrality than hertility. It is far
from being probable, however, that France
will obtain the affiliaoce ftipuUted for in
the family-compact, aconlpaft which France
in the midst of the embarrafTment of a re
volution generously offered to adhere to.
Rut a good deal is gained, in France having
influence to prevent Spain from joining the
concert of powers. As to the political re
lation between France and Portugal, it is
hardly worth noticing. The French am
baflador at that court has been desired to
announce, in its name, that Portugal ear
nestly dt fires the tranquility and happiness
of France, and will do her utmost to pre
fcrve an inviolable neutrality.
Whatever refrftauce the troops of Poland
may be ei'abud ro make to the progress of
the Ruffian*, the fuperioritv of the°latter,
in point of mimbers only, is so great, that
no success whatever on the part of the Poles
csr, be dec five in their favor. For fear of
being furromrded by the Ruffians the two
Polnh armies liavc been obliged to manoeu
vre in a most fatiguing manner, and in ge-.
nerai to be on the reti ear, tlio' fiowly. The
unexpected declaration of the courts of Vi
enna and Berlin has infinitely embarrassed
the affairs of 1 eland ; when the new go*
vernment was planned and adopted, no one
had twe leafi kifpiciun of the speedy peace
that lias been ltrnck up between the Em
press and the Turks, {till less the alliance
between Austria and Prussia, and lead of all,
'lie good underilatiding that has taken place
between Rnffia and Prussia, who were at
that time fucli bitter enemies to each o
ther.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
Paris Aug. n.
Several causes have concurred towards
•he ueth'ronilig of Louis XVI, and com
pletely estranging the affedtions of the nati
on from the monarch. Time, that soon
er or li ter unfolds every thing will prok.bly
nifcover ibat the king has aftcd completely the
political hypocrite. There is no doubt but
himlelf, the queen, and some others of rhe
roval family had contrived to hold a fteadycor
refpondence with the combined enemies of
ince, aid 'he national sprit was in conse
quence roused to dethrone him, and endeavour
io unite upou IvAie solid plan of lefiflance t»
he coTbir.cc despotic forces, before it became
>. o la'.e. The main charge against ihe king
was, that It- had interfiled himfelf in preventing
uipplies heir, i'entto the army, by which means
he expeflcd they would fall an easy prey (o ihe
invaders, who were to replace him on th«
th one.
Augujl 12. —"In the engagement on Friday
b.-iwe.u the populace and the guards, theie re
mains 110 doubt bui the Swiss fi.ed firft, but not
it nil ihey wei e prellcd upon in the moH violent
niamiti & their j.uns forciblv turned lound, &
planted agamfl tbe palace M. d'Affry gave the
01 der to fire. The federates of Bred and Mar
h lies rushed foi'.vard, and ill a few minutes
there was a dreadful (lau-hier. The Swiss re
treated to rtie palace, and kept a molt fatal fire
fom the windows. The dead lay in heaps.
The qua . s were full of people armed and un
armed, and directing thei fire del berately in
to ihs multitude—the tnaflacre was dreadful.
It did not, however, intimidate the afla lants*
-even pieces of cannon were playr d on the
Thuilleries and the Louvie. They made
bleaches in the old walls in a fliort time; hut
then impetuofiiy from the place de Carousal
was irre tif'lible. Thev broke in, and in a fev*
minu'esthe multitude filled tbe palace ; every
Swiss thac e.mie in their way perifhd; but
numbers found temporary fafety in the cellars
and gariets, and were with difficulty saved from
the rage of the people. I can give no perfea
account of the Head. From the number yet
unburied.or thiown into the Seine, or burnt;
foi a file was made in the place de Caroufaf, ia
which the fuiniture, the tapeflry&c. of the'pa
lace was consumed; and inio v hich, ii tlie
wamonnels of cruelty, many dead bodies .Tuche
as they knew to be gemlen.en) were th.owii ;
I suppose ihere were not fewer than 25C0
some tarry the number roueh fc.her—am! o.hei»
dimimfh it to a vciv fmali number indeed hut
this will bye and b) ebe ascertained The
names 1 have heard, are tliofe of M. d'AfFry
the Abbe Bouillon, Cailc,Xandat, &c. Ihe
palace is completely dismantled, The d.y
was exceflive y ho ; and they regaled them
'elves on ihe kind's wine : They b'ouj>ht it out
tu iinmenfe quantities; and it wn'snot uncommon
to fee men :md women, aher theirotrn draught
put the bottles to rhe mouth ot' the. dead lyiji," in
mangled heaps, with die (pint of furious (pott
which they have all aloiijr exhibited, cry ng
''Here, take your lad d. it.k I—Drink to the na
tion !" ihi horiois of the day cannot bv- de
scribed to you in .oequaie language, forthe be
ginning of our carecr 111 July. 178, wastxeted
ec..
M. Maudart, ihe cc-nmander of the natonal
guard, was ai 1 cflt d down the ftaii a! 0 f
the Hotel de la V lilc. He was ieucd by tii^people, beheaded, and his head fixed upon a
pole and carryed throngh the ftieets.
In about an hour From the commencement
•f the attack on the palace, not one Swiss
left. Ninety-fix who i'urvived their colonel,
and Gen. d'Affry, demanded quarters, but they
were conduced to thcPlacede Greve,and theie
jut to death. About three hundred Marfeillois
nave fallen, and near a thousand citizens, among
■which were several womeuand children whom
curiosity had led towards the scene ofailion.
All the Swiss, above joo, were put to death,
and the people carryed the remnants of their
clothes on the ends of their pikes in triumph.
The pavillions of the palace, near the place de
Carousal, were afterwards let on fire, as well as
the Swiss barracks.
The maids of honour of the palace were con
ducted to the SeQion; the reft of the persons
•n duty were put to death : The wine cel
lars were alone plundered. The jewels, plate,&c
were brought to the assembly, and deposited in
fafcty.
The attack at the palace began before ten
o'clock: A Marseilles oificer appeared at the
principal door of the palace, "and demanded en
trance for himfelf and his banditti trom a Swiss
#fficer who commanded there. The Swils re
plied, that his ciders would not permit him to
comply. The Marseilles officer inflantly ap
phedapiftol to his breast, and fnothim through
»the heart.
M. Sulan, the Queen's Secretary, is likewise
among tbofe whole heads were cut off in the
Palace.
Many of the wotnenbelonging to the palace,
and some others, met an equally unfortunate
fate. They had fled for fafcty,and had reached
the bridge. Knowing that their lives were in
danger, if they were taken, about twenty threw
theinfelves over the battlements into the water,
and were drowned.
The king and queen behaved themselves
with great foititude. The king's countenance
throughout showed (igns of the moll perfect
conipoluic, The queen looked wiih an air of
magnanimity anddifdainon her enemies.
It i< said that the king is to have a public trial
on ihesßth of this month. (Augufl)
The new miniAets, as appointed by the as
sembly, are— ■—«
M. Damon, Miniflet of Jnflice,
M. Le B un> Minister for Foreign Affairs,
M. Roland, Minister df the interior,
M. Strvan, Minister at War,
M. Mange, Minister of Maiine.
M.CUvierre, Niiimter of contiibutitins.
The king, qu:*n and family bore their condi
tion wiih great equanimity. The president's
room was afligned for them, and there they have
ramamed ever si nee. The palace Bourbon is
converted into a piilcn for the Swiss, and tor
all the person» whom they tiiufe to apprehend
upon rufpicion.ThcFuilUut&lome otliei Journals
are ftopt, and byopening letters they have gained
a pictty geneial knowledge of their enemies,
and they are a reft'ng them in numbers ; what
they really p opofe to themTelvts, whether
they have any protprft of Handing their ground,
and trying a repu >lic, or whether ilie hanritui
ofleadets mean to fly a • soon as the foreign ar
fliy, or the French army make-; its approach, for
eithef will be equally fatal to them, 1 know not
This dreadful scene, howfcvel it may close
upon the fate of France, or upon the fortune of
liberty, ought to be alejfon ro eveiy government
that true wisdom confifis in fair dealing ; and
that to cajole, to trick, and to play the hypocrite
with a whole people, is as weak as it is wicked;
I fay thi l -, because I am perluaded, that the
want of candour, tnorethan treason in the court
has brought upon them this catailiephe. They
wished an increase of power, which in due time
the naiion would have given them, but too ca
ge.', they tiied to accomphfh it by secret and
dilhonell means."
Lijle, July 17. —Some little jtiftice has been
done here, ar length, to the of the un
fortunate D lion. A man called the Sieur
Vafienr, who was one of t'ne moit aciivt
and principal in attacking the ill-fated ge
neral. ard afterwards burning his body,
was tried lately, and condemned to lose hi;
head.
The fentenre was carried : nto execution
on Friday lift, amidst an inunerife number
of fjteclators. He app=areti t o b-.' l.. R le f-
at hi;, approaching death, and walk
ing with a stead) step Ihe fc ftoid, \ hit li
was ereclrd preeifelv «>ij the lpot where the
remains of the unfortunate Diiioa were
confnmed to all.es.
Having ascended the fciffold, he addref
fed himfelf to 'h? furrou iding multitude,
and fhid, with an audible "oice, " that al
the moment of taking par* riga.nft the de
ceased general, he acted under a perfusion,
according to the ui.iverfal report n the oe
calion, thnthe hadbet.ayed the 2.my ; and
however he might have I. ice be-it convin
|fr ced. that the gener-l was mifrtprefented,
he, nevertheless, from the above mention
ed convittion, at the time, could uot help
considering himfelf, in fouie measure, as a
martyr to ihe cause of the nation. Con
fequenegs, he added, might have Ihewn
hii zeal amittaken one ; but at the mo
ment of his condufl, he considered himfeli
as takng a laudable part against one who
"was rrprelented, and whom he then be
lieved to bea traitor."
He then submitted himfelf to the execu
tiorer, who, by an apparatus, new, at leaf!
here and called a Louifoil, was decapitatet
in an instant.
This machine is nearly similar to wha:
vas formerly used in Scotland, called s
Maiden ; the criminal lays bis head on s
Slock; aiipve is ftifpended a ken -ye.
fixed iri a piece of timber, with n !ie vj
weight at the back—two upright ,
with a groove in them, serve as co;rdu#t6r
to the axe, to fall oil the neck of the cr.mi -
Hal, when a pulley, which suspend I", ■
let flip—the axe, by being fu.'peiidcd at a
height, falls with great force and rapidity
and fevers the head inftantaneouflv and
completely ; and thereby fave> tiie unfor
tunate fufferer from being mangled, a i
frequently the cafe, in the common mod
of decollation, when the executioner is 1 o
expert, or agitated thro' l'ear, or horror oi
the scene.
The rapid advance of the Ruffian troop
and the determined language of her imp
rial ntajelty, left Stanislaus no alternative .
he, therefore afterreceiving her ultimatum ai
fembled the nobles, communicating to them
tiie Emprefo's determinatio;i. and at tlir
fame time recommended, to prevent the
further effutions of blood and difinember
ment of the kingdom, to fubmitto a tem
porary inconvenience, to revoke the con
stitution fettled on the 3d of May, 1791, to
restore the ancient foirn of government,
and to submit the arbitration of the differ
ence between the people of Poland and the
Einprefs, to the three rebel Counts Potoc
ki, Rzeivufky, and liranicki—and propo
fcd, in compliance with a requilition from
the Emprefi, the Prince Poniatowlki thould
be recalled, a.id Count Banicki inveft
with the command of the army: but the
Allembly was by no means unanimous in
the adoption of these sentiments.
A flrong party, of which Malacowfki,
Marshal of the Diet—Prince Sapicha, Mar
ihal of Lithuania—M. Potocki, jun — and
M- Soltick, were at the head, opposed the
pacific propolitions of his Majesty, and de
clared, that the king having deserted the
Conflitution, the Conflitution, without the
king, ,v >ouid repel the ambitious and op
pressive views of all its enemies, or finking,
(hould bury thoufauds in its ruins.
PHILADELPHIA.
October 10.
A correspondent remarks, that the public
is sometimes, and not improperly remind
ed, that the representatives of the people
ought to be so proportioned in refpeft to
characters and profeflions, as to represent,
or be a copy of the different interefls and
clafies of the conflituent body ; and this is
used as a reason for keeping up the fame
proportion in the new election as exilts in
the present Congress. Would it not be
ufeful, then, if some well informed person
would publifii a lilt of the members of Con
gress, diftinguithing their refpeflive charac
ters and callings ?—for, it is fufpe&ed and
laid, that there are several interefls or clas
ses of the community, but more particular
ly the /peculating interejl, that have a very un
due proportion of weight in the national
couilciis; whereas, some very great inter
ells (particularly the landed interest which
embraces mne-tenths of the people) are in
companion but as a feather in the political
scale.
"Gen,Putnam (fays a letter from an offi
cer at Marietta) having defpaii ed of a trea
ty with the iMiamis, nas gone to the Wa
bafh, with a view of detaching some of the
tiibes from the general combination ; but,
lam f<< yto . J., with little propped oi
success."
A French rentleinan, recently from the
Wab.-' .. in: >i :a: tli - the Indians are em
p ov.d in removing their families beyond
the water, of the Miffiiiippi, in order that
.tie \v";-.or upon their return) may be lef>
incumbered for battle. We have also a
report in circulation, that a party lately
pul :ed i-ito the French settler -nt of Galli
opolis, and killed a. d scalped two or thrt\
pei Tons. Such is the aspect of Indian affair?
at chi> period.
We are informed, through a Virginia pa
per, that Col. Harden, one ofthecommif
floners to ihe Ind:ans, refpefting a treaty
of peace, and who was reported to have
been mafl'acred, has made his escape. li
Teems Col. Harden and his companion, Ma
jor Trt.eman, were sentenced to be burnt ;
which he law executed upon the latter ;
and was himfelf, the next morning after hi:
fr end's execution, to have experienced the
fame fate; but w as llolen from his confine
ment by eight young Wyandot warriors,
uhofafeiy conducted him to Fort Wall.-
ington.
Extra£l of a letter, from a gentleman ir
Cape Francois to his friend in this city.
dated September 18.
At lafl the forces ilnder the command oJ
general Defbarbes. arrived yeltcrday.
iheyconfiftof 6400 men, of whom 4000 art
national guards. The new civil commif
f-on arrives with them. The general ap
pears ready to dispense with ceremony ant
etiquette and is anxious only for the fafet)
of the remains of this unfortunate colony.
The civil commissioners are busy in pre
paring proclamations previous to exerting
the flrong arm of power.
It was full time that this succour flionlc
arrive, the unhappy province of Cayes i:
nearly ruiatd, tuicl by the manoeuvres o:
an infernal cabal the (laves of the pariih 01
j'ros Morne were driven to follow the ex
ample of the rebels in the northern part.
The timely and courageous exertions
of tae inhab.tants ofßorgne, aided by co
lour citizens have difperftd tome bands and
delh oycd 3 01-4 CO insurgents besides captur
ing one hundred, 50 of whom have been
executed; the remainder are kept for ex
amination to endeavour at discovering the
movers of the inlurreftlon.
Capt. Macpherfon of the Ship Patfey Rut
ltd2;e arrived here on Sunday from Qltend,
wuich place he left on the 96th of Atiguft,
informs, that two days before he failed
letters were received by the magistrates of
rhe city informing, that M. La Fayette and
a number of his officers were taken by some
peasants within the Ailftrian lines, and thai
lie was conveyed and securely confined in
the castle of Antwerp about 10 leagues
from Oftend. —Reports in Oftend relative
to this affair were various before he failed.
Some fay he was on a reconnoitring party
with a few of his officers and was surprised
and taken by about double the number of
peasants.—Another report is, that he was
in disguise and endeavouring to make his
way through the country towards some sea
pore town to take shipping for America.
That he was dncovered by lbme of tlie in
habitant!, seized iind delivered into the
haiM s of government. —He requeftcd, it is
ail'o laid, tt> be removed from the scene of
action on the frontiers, and chose Antwerp
for the place Of h.s confinement. —The ac
count of his being taken and actually con
fined, was communicated to Capt. Mac
pherfon by the merchant to whom he was
conligned who had feeu the letters received
by tile magifhates.—There can therefore
ue but little doubt of the reality of the fait.
What led to his being taken is not so evi
dent.
That a general officer fhonld venture
into art enemy's country with so little
caution as to be captured by penfar.ts is
not very probr.ble ; that M. La Fayette
fhoulJ desert the cause a" the moment
it moll heeded his support, is more incre
diblei
Information received in town from
Bourdeaux, via New-York, may aflill in
unravelling the mystery. A vessel arrived
in New-York from Bntinkaux, which
place fiie left on the lall day of August,
infol-ms, that a decree of accusation again(l
M. La Fayette had received the fanftion
of a majority of the national afTembly.
That orders were in consequence ifiucd 10
apprehend him, and another commander
was chosen in his (lead.
M. La Fayette, it is probable receiv
ing information of this decree, before the
arm of the Jacobin party could reach
him, may have taken tiie resolution to
escape their fury.
The breach of the constitution by the
Jacobins would not have been fufficient to
have led him to abandon his country ; but
the coirimand bting taken from him by
the ruling party, put it out of his power
to be any longer serviceable, especially, as
his arrest was decreed, which might be
followed by a summary trial, condemna
tion, and perhaps d. ath. An attempt to
fly to this country ?.s an asylum would be
extremely natural in such
and not unworthy of himfe'f. He will be
treated with humanity by the dt fpote into
vvhofe hands he has fallen 5 — not so if the
emigrants had him in their power. His
efforts in favour of the king, whole life he
has saved more than once, will plt-ad power
fully in his behalf; but it i» tntich to be re
grette-', that if it was h'splnnto fly to
this country, he fnould have been unft
cefsful. Here he might have enjoyed the
sweets of that liberiy, in the cause ot
which he ha 3 been so active, and We should
have had ah opportunity of teftifying our
admiration for his character, and gratitude
for his services.
Capt Macpherfon also informs, that
before he came away, fcveral of the officers
of the northern army had arrived at
Oftend, and among others Count Dillon.
They were probably impelled to emigrate
in dilguft at the proceedings of the Ja
cobins.
The Duke of Branfwick had taken
poffefiion of fcveral French towns, with
out meeting with oppolition.
The lad accounts from Paris, described
the city as in a Hate of more tranquility
since the deposition of the king.
The decree of accusation agaitift La
Fayette, and his captur?, added to the
deposition of the king, have mare a change
in the filuation of affairs in France. The
cause of the con-ftitntion expires ; but that
of liberty and republicanism are Hill to b'?
support ed.
It remains to be seen whether a majori
ty of French citizens will support the pro
ceedings of the Jacobins at Paris; It re
mains to be determined whether t!ie r6y<
alills, ariflocrats and constitutionalists, will
not be those numerous than republicans.
If*he republicans can maintain a decided
superiority within, the cause of liberty and
equality may ft ill prevail, this mud still be
the wilh of every friend to therigh'sof
man. It is better that France should feel
for a few years the evils of anarchy, than
again to exjjerience the horrors of defpc
lifrh. The French, the great body of the
French nation have fern the dawn of liber
ty, they can never bend to the yoke of
tyranny. Gen. Adv.
"Wliilfl Paint, and other American pa
triots abroad are labouring to reform the
corrupt governments of Europe to the
standard of the American conftitutionj
what a Iligma on a certain fadiion at home,
that is sighing and intriguing to corrupt
and warp our conflitution to the ftafidanl
□f a certain European monarchy.
Abridgement of further foreign news ly
the lateji arrivals.
The Empress of Rufiia has declared
war in form against France; and ifiued
her orders to all Frenchmen to do theif
iltmoft in re-inflating Louis the XVlth in
all his royal prerogatives : the French am
bassador had also quit Peteilburg on a very
[ho r t notice.—The king of France was
completely deposed ; himfelf and his family
removed from the palace to the hotel o£
the minister of justice ; his person under
the protection of a guard fuhjeit to che
iuthotity of the mayor of Paris', and ps
:he commander of ihe national guard, who
ivere to be responsible lor the'fafety of the
icjng and family : the sum of 500,000 li»
ms to be a'lowed for his expertces till the
meetiilg ofthe national convention.—Three
sld priests had been killed by the mob at
Cauderan, a village near Bourde&ux, fuf»
pe&ed of holding a treasonable corlefpon*
deuce wi h the enemies of t' : e
■•-The king of Poland refolv.?d t< 11
« renunciation ofthe com- is >:• d
311 the 3d of May '791, in cpnleati nee of
i letter from the empress o! .; that,
lie would ove:power him with ■ ,
ler soldiery.in c fehe contint* il' ::tei.
the PoliHi fuccefiion was to dewlv • t;a
jrince Cbnllantinc Paulowitz, lecon ;<
if the grand duke of Ruflia, r.c!•; i h. rs
na!e—other aco-'tints fiy, 'J:at a 1: >ng
Darty n Poland h.:, 4 prone i til?
l deserter of the conftituti m. •" c ir d
hat they would, under ti cor itu: ion.
■epel all its enemies or link un. its • u:trs
—On the 26th of A--"ft tli. kir.rr c:
F ar.ee had not yet 5,e.:n . ' : r's
•rial.—The duke of E v.. hen
in the frontier of France," w i ii a view tb
•aarch towards Pari-, threatc-;• £ death
ind detlruition to every opr-" : —
Dcfertion had prevail? j»r- in F -'ice,
JUt in officers only ; wV •!, •'•'■ th the
Aultrians it wa# th n • ; Me ;old
3eferting over to France Ly ;u: . •.•. cid
.he officers only true to the 1 ;c
mailers.
On the Sth of Atiguft, Thomas P;nc
neV, Tfq minister plenipotentiary fiovh.
the United oiatcs, had a priv.te audience
:;f r he k'ng of Great-Britain, to deliver
bis credentials ; and on the Fiiday pre
ceding, paid ill's firft rifit of forin to the
several tru mVvs of the administration.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE fubferiber returns his mint refyt 'Iful
compliments to his friends, and the public
f<»r the many favours he has received, and
leave-t<" I'f rm -tiem thhe has open Hand, a
Few fine toned FO.*. i E PIAinOS* which he. will
warrant fbpdrior to an) imported* and which he
will difVofe of on reafor.. b!e terms.
The'great number of For t e Ft a nos lately*
imported from London and Dublin, induces the
fubferiber to cautioh the public against the artful
insinuations of ferfons, eommiUloncd to vend
them, who for a very trifling compensation re
commend indumenta that are nothing but the
refufe of European mufic-lhop?, and imported ac
a mere trifle, and fold for rhe fame price as a go6d
instrument, xo the great diiappointment of rhe ig
norant purchaser, who generally pay as much for
repairs in a year or two, as the original cod of a
good instrument.
N. B. Mulical Instruments let obt by the
month or quarter, Jiktwile musical in(!ruments
tuned and repaired in the bei> manner, and on the
mall reafonab 1 " term*. bv
CHARLES TAWES,
No. 60, Vvainut near Third-street."
O&ober 10.
N OTI C E. ~
THIS is tofoiwam all mafteri of vefTels and
others, at their peril, not to take a certain
mulatto Boy, nsflned Lewis Boget, formerly ci
Cayenne, out of this city, he being lawfully bound
and apprenticed 'o me, untill 16th Nov. 1793 ;
as I have reason to fufpeft he is endeavouring to
leave this city. JAMES ROBERTSON.
QQober 9. tfF rom the (Boft on ) Independent Chronicle*
The CRiSiS,—No. 11.
Qlfervations on the A.ner'ican Tfade, Salaries, a tin
Fees to Officers, &c.
To the Independent Federal Electors.
TT ;s necefl'arv to prerrvfe, that these is a set
writers in the Cjlumlitm Centinel y sc tht Gazette,
oj the United States wao represent every 1 i>
that prelumes to remark on the measures of Con
fire's, as inimical to th: federal j.'overnrtient. B.
this is an infidi<Mis attempt on their part, to inva
lidate the obfervatiuns made 5 and to coh found th
principles of the conftitucion, with its adihimjlra
tion■ For my pwn part, 1 revere the.constitution,
*« ! wish that it may have an ener etic support—
and cannot but deprecate every mcafure puriueo,
either by those in the government, or out, th~l
may have a tendency to. subvert its fur.damenta
principles. — Every man who refle&s jsrftl), knows
that the constitution was originally eftaoliflied foi
the hapoineis and prosperity of the icbole people }
and not for ahe emolument aud grandeur of a trw
iudi viduals.
T.'judge whether it is thus extenfivelv benefi
cial, let us examine whether the administration 01
the government, as it respects the American com
merce, by extending cur navigation, and piomoting
cur a:r*ying trade, has bee p.ofecuted upon thol
National principles, con t * later, at the time cf iti
adoption 3 01 whether that economy has been od
served in the payment of our officers, which the
circumftauces of the merchant, farmer, travel-
and manufacturer required. T'nefe are fub
jedH of enqui.y which every man w!io is a friend
to th * permanency of our federal constitution, wi •
rea lily and impartially attend to.
The patriot considers the operation of our go*,
ernment, as connected with the peace, l.berty ano
independence of pofteruy •, though the nan - v.
in\nde<ifpeculator may be only anxiuus as to th,
immediate benefit* refuting from his lundeu
stock : Piovided his unjulUy acquiied thoulands,
arefecured to him by quarteily payments, he feeh
perfe&ly indiflvrent, wh;it class of citizens falls a
faciifice to the accom^lifhment.
In the 1-ft 1 Jinber of the Crisis, it was ob
ferveo, that the principal objdsof the federal
government, were to pronxKe our commerce ano
extend our navigition \ ihe question now is, h<>vt
any effectual national mcajurts been adopted, to
jive energ> to them ?
It may be agfwered, that since the eftabli/h
mPiJt of the government, our trade has revived,
ano our navigation has encr M jled- That ou
merchants a-.e exploring new sources of commerce,
and tiat a general spirit of cnterprize pervadft.
every part of the Uni m.«— But it scarcely
of a question, whether these favorable are
in conlequence of any allilance given to tradf by
Congref>. On the contrary, they are conceiveo
as a't<gether owing to the natu al difpofuion ' t
the Americans. The commercial refourc.s 01
this country being so great, and the enterprize ol
the people so active, led the merchants to adopt,
and prosecute new plans of commerce, without
even luaiting t<- know what immediate fuppor
they should receive f ai government. Reiving
on the wifd«.m and refolutioo of our rulers, that
some measures would foeedil. be puifued, to r<-
move every commercial embarralsmenr, the mer
chant readily equipped hi* vesT I, supplied hex w th
a and rifqued the luccels of his voyage on
hi* own prudent management.
it 1t is pleaded that our trade and navig.tion
have fiouriijK-d in consequence of the proceedings
ot Cong.efs, let the advocates point out what iub
jftantiai mealures have been adapted for the pur
poses. Have the xcellive duties on every attic,e
■cf importation, animated the merchant to puifue
his bufi iels with alacrity ? Does he feel, the be
nign influence oi governmenc, in finding so large
a [.roportion of the revenue appropriated to the
p?<,ment of revenue Officers, who aie living in af
jiu..nce on his industry ?
In short, if we would wifli to hear encomiums
on the measures adopted, we mult quic our injur.
f.nce offices, our wharves and ft< re>, and repair 10
the rendezvous of Batik Scrip Speculators, an"
iftock jwborng negociators j withii. this patriotic
and ail important circle, we shall
h-car of the la.utary effieacy of adminißration, in
the highest strains of approbation. Tlir blrflirg
of a funding Jyftetn, instead of a commercial JyJJem,
are eloquently cortraited ! The rile of 6 per
cents, and deterred stock, instead of the price cur
rent of merer.andize, we. mav there hear debated
with the molt profound learning, and nicest calcu
lation ! But whether these are the only class or
citizens, whoje. plaudits are to be courted by gov
ernment, i» oqu 'ftion, which the indultrious ano
serviceable pai tof the community, can quickly
determine in the negative.
Impost, excise, and direst taxation are the three
great ltaples of revenue • They are our onl
fources upon the most prefling emergencies. 1
answer the exigencies of government two of them
are already largely called for, and completely ap
propriated. So great a demand for revenue in
our prelent state of infancy is rather aiarminp.
$Io man fuppofci that the exti/e would be lu im
mediately needed. This was not,conceived pof
jible in the itate conventions at the time of adopt
ing the conftitucion. On the contrary, a larg'
proportion of the revenue was supposed at thar p?
to arise from extra duties t on foreign vefj'els
that the weight of the government fliould noi .1
together fall on the ihoulders of our cwn mer
chants. To enable our merchants to pay then
impost, the American trade was then contempJa'
ed, as extending itfeif to the feveraJ Europea
ports, and the Weft-Indies ; ard the America:
navigation represented as riding triumphant si <
the purpose of the carrying trade.
But wherein have we experienced the advanta
ges then held out with such a degree of enthufi
aim ? The foreigner either by bVrnfelf, or by cot,
fignments can now prosecute his business upor
nearly similar terms j with ourselves \ and o u .,
commerce is equally as ccnfrathd as befene th
adoption of the constitution. The American ha
fliil the mortification to find himfeif prohibiteu
from entering a petty Island, and his veflel layinj
at the wharf, whi e a foreigner is freighting our
pxoduce. But what adds to the humiliating re-
is, that notwithstanding <* extra duties' 1
have been recently laid, foi the purpose of carr\-
g on an Indian war, yet no additional tonnage is
fojtd on foreign veJJ'els,
» -as natural to ijppofe, that if an excise was
i vied, tne duties ot import wjulJ be leifened . in
.teaa of which, immediately on the eftabliihmenl
t the exc.fe, ".extra duties of import, have tak
en place. 1: is certainly a, lerious consideration,
.'at we are rnus wrji called on lor the utmoli
upply of thcie two staple fourceg of revenue j
nore e'fpecially when such a large proportion o<
his immense amount, is expended in the paym nl
f tiic< rs, and the support of an im -oii'.ic Indian
•var. '1 he latter involves us in an expence,
vhich in a tew years, it is probable, wiil total!)
bf>rb the revenue arising both from impoit and
xcile, After wiiLh we may expect, it wiil cai
for the aid ol the landed ir.uvcft.
'I be Indian war emphatically be Oiled the
Jlougb of the revenue j as the Pittance of the place
of operation, [however well difpol'e*d the head oJ
the department may be] makes it difficult tc
bring every tranfa&ion within the lacitude ol
itri£t investigation.
If our reveaue i.s now so ample, it ought t o b'e
aupropriated for the discharge of our juH
and not applied for the puipofes of generating of
fices, and profecutifig an unjuit war. Instead ol
pra&icmg on this fylierr. of prudence, the govern
men: is organized upon the molt expenfivt plan,
by compenlationj,/ecs and fa.laries. These cx
:ravacancies, together with the Indian war, are
the great causes of the excess of duties, as the)
are included in the exigencies to be annually pro
viued for j confecjuentJy if thele expentes wen
expunged, the dtttits would descale in the fam<
i at:o, to the benefit of the mei chant, fa; mer a.ic
tradelman
1 would not with to depreciate from the merii:
of tne officers of government j but that one clal:
ot men, (hou!d not be fuppoited in affluence, t(
ihediftrefs of the citizens at large, is a pofitioj
which cannot, in a free government, be contro
verted.
if we examine the meichant on one fide,
revenue officers on the o'her, we fliall find tha
she balance of advantages is altogether in favor o
(he latter. Jt is proper that the officers of gov
e nment should have a reasonable f. pport so
heir fervicts, bur it ought not to be so extrava
int, that in a few years, ir should evidently apt
f>car y they make more money by living on th
..overnment, than the merchant, or any ciher in
duihious citizen b\ Jufportir.g it.
Excellive lalaries to o.'Kcers were grievances
compla ned of undei rhe Briti/h governmtnt. Th<
commiifi ners of the customs wcie then allow;c
£. 5 overling, per annum, which was though
extravagant, it was then thought arbitrary ant
u'ljuft, that the indurtrious merchant should pa*
rhi» amount out of his trade, to support a set o
men in mxury and diflioation However enor-
Mom the salaries were then confideied, yet th
heads of many departments, are now higher. The
pay of colle&ors, infpeclors, .weigher , tide-wait
ers, &c, were not equal to rhe present annua* in
come of fimiiar officers. It is not d lubted bul
many now employed in t,he customs and elsewhere
would have thought themselves well paid for one
auarter ot the sum they now have } and lhould »
new choice be made on thole terms, would makt
as much interest to be employed under the federal
government, a-s thev formerly did under the
Itate.
Upon the whole, to sum up the ccnclufions to
be drawn from the foregoing - obferv*ati.»ns—The
amount requifile for the maintenance of our fed
eral government, and the p.i) ment of our just debts,
might be railed by an import on certain enumer
ated articles imported in American vcjfe/s, and b*
a comptrent " exira duty"" on such as were im
ported in foreign toget.i< r with an a Uiitional duty
on foieign tonnage : Provided in the firrt instance
we reduced the pa)ment ot our officers in every
department, to the circumrtances of the people-—
and a,.upted some prudential measures for effrdt
ing a r.eace wirh the Indians. A few thoufan j
pound.s di )\ touted by a MinJJer at Peace, amonj;
the heads of the tribes, w >uld be moie tilicac ou
towards accjuiiing iheir friendlhip, than milliori
expended in ianguinary expediri;.ns.
An Indian war is equally as impolitic i
America, as an India nvar v\as for Britain, a* l
boihufthem may be considered as originating
from ambition and piivare interest.
ihe t ireg >ing obfeivations are nerefTary fv.
the consideration of the people at the pref •
critis.
A few cursory obfervationson the funding fyfln
and the national bank t xoill'furnijh roj ie. for ti.
next number. A REPUBLIC AN.
Society for cftabl.frjing ufeful Manufactures.
TWTOTiCE is h< reby given to tiie holders «
U ik i a f"<iet', that the foilowii
ri an. cm l nt has been made uy the D *put s G
vernor and Oire&ors thereof, b) a refj'ution c
he eightterith day of iViay, J792.
Tne f-icond initalment so 1 the paym-nt of fharc
n the rtock of this- fjciefy, may be made in th
following manner, viz.
The amount of the fald fecotsd inrtalrnent, bt
ing 20 13-ico dollars sHare, may be paid ir
three payments, on condition that tbe lawful i;
ierert of 7 per cent. y*~ annum, be calculater
and paid with part of. thcfai.
l a ment, that is to fay, on or before the thi»
teenth day of Augurt next, the sum of 6 71-joc
with the addition of 12 cents, being the ii.te ei
-f one mi»nth on 20 13-100 dollars—on or be
•re the 13th ot Septembej next, the sum of »
ii-100 collars, vviih the addition of' S cents, be
g the interest for one month on 13 43-100 do}
ars—and on or before the 13th of Ofctober next
the sum of 6 71-100 dollars, with the oduition c
4 cents, being the interest on the faiT;e. for on
month. The said payments are to be mane at tb
following places, viz. In the city of Fhi-fadelphi j
it the bank of the United States—at New- Brum
vick, in New-Jerfty, to John Bayard, or J'-h
Neilfon, Efqis—and in rhe of New-York, a
ihe bank of New-York, or either of the fai '
places, which may be mort convenient to tht
'itock holders.
By order of the diredion,
JAMES GRJFITTHS, Cle:k.
J» J y 2 4« rf. ,
Prices Cur rein at Pn ilctdtlp hi d.
[Dollars ecjual to 100 cent;.]
ASHEi Hot.per ten c,o Dol:. to too d
Allies Pearl j37 — — 140.
Bat'j , fl iches per lb. 7 cents.
Bacon thoulders — 6 do.
Bees wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27.
brandy, Coniac, pCrgl. 1 dol. 20 c,
Brandy, common, 1 dol.
Butter, in kegs, per lb. 9 c. to 10.
Beei, Boston, per barrel -jd to Si.
Country ditto 6d to 7_d.
Coals, per bulhel, 20 c. to 22
Coffl-e, per ib. i 3 to 19 c.
Cotton, per lb. 26 c. to 40
Cheele, country, per lb. 8c to 10c.
— 1 -Englifo 19c.
Choco.ate, 17c to iSc.
Codiifh, per cwt, 3d. 50c.
Cordage, American, per cwt. 7d 67c. to Sd.
Duck, Engiilh No. 1. per yd. 28c.
I cenc lei's for every number
■ ■— Russia, per bolt lid. 33c.
Dutch lail duck, iSd. tc 20J.
Sail cl »th, Bollon No. 1. per yd. 3QCO
Kiaxfeed, por bu/h. 75 to 85c.
Flax, per lb. i 1 to 12 c.
Hour, luperfine, per barrel,
t »minon, 4 Job. 67 c.
Bgrr middlings, b.:tl, per brl. 4d.
Meal Indian 2 dols. 52 c.
Rye 2 dols. 40 c.
Ship ftuff, per cwt, 60.C. to idol.
Gin, Holland, per calt, 4 ools. c.
Ginfeiig per lb. 20 c. to 24
Grain, barley, p-r bufliei, 73 to See.
best ihtlled, per lb. 3 c.
Buck wheat, per bultvel, 40 c.
Indian corn, 50 c. Oats 35 c. pr. bush.
Rye 47c, Wheat § 3c.
Herrings, per barrel 3i.
Hoops, hogshead, per M. 13d.
■ ■■■■■—Banel., 7d to Bd.
Harm, pei lb. S c. to 9
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67 c.
American, per lb. 4 c. t# 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9c. to 11
lnd.go, Carolina, per Jb. 1 dole to j dol. 10 c.
iioft, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
Callings, per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nail-rods per ton 96 dols.
P-g, per ton, 24 dois. to 26 dols. 67 C,
.Sheet, per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
Leather, foal, per lb. 14c. to 17c. 20c.
Locvfto d pei ton 24c.
La;d, hpgs, per lb. 9 c. to 10
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dels".
In pigs, 5 dols 33 c. to 5 dols. 67 r.
Red, 6 dols. 40 c. 10 J duls. 67 c.
White, 10 dois. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Mackerel, bert, per bbl. 3d.
Madder, best, per lb. i6c. to 20c.
M) rrie wax fer lb. 16 c.
Mola/fes, per gal. 44 c. to 50
Nails, 8d iod. i2d and 20J. per lb. icC.
Nutmegs, per lb. 7 to S dolla.i
Oil, Ltofe; , oer gallon, to 67 c.
Give, ,87c.
P'r tale 2d. 50c,
Sweet be ft in balkets, 12 bot. $d«
■■■ ■*—-30 fid/3;s, in boxes i*u 50c.
Spermaceti, per gal. 48c.
Train 24c. to 27c.
Whale, 22c. to 24c.
Pepper, per lb. 30c*
Pimento, —iSc. to 20c.
Porter per caik, SJ. 33c.
Porter, London* per doien, 1 dol. 6c c«
Anlferican, do. 1 u. 4 to c. 1 d. C 5 c.
Pitch, per barrel, idol. 73 c. to 2 dols.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, j idols 10 ii i 33c.
Lpvver County, do. 10 uois.
Carolina, do. 9 dols.
Raisins, Muf-atella, per box 3d.
Ja: do. per jar 20. coc.
do. per keg 90^
• v;ee, per I 12 lb. 2 dola. 50 c. to 2 dol. 67 c.
per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 dolt.b/ c.
\um, Antigua, p,er gapon, j dol.
B-vbad do. do. 83 c.
N ••• - England, &c. 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. 7c.
Vv indward liJand", 86c.
almoh, per bb . 6d. 50c. to "ji.
-s'-antli he.irt, pei M. 23d. 33c.
Sap, od. to 3j 67c.
a. >gies, iS i.rc. , per M. 20. 33c. to id 67c.
- 2 lect, 5 1 33c. t b
3 seer, Jiefie , 13d. to ltd.
«> nt, (Ailujn) p-j ouihel, 24 to 27 c.
Cj.uz, 23 t» 24 c.
I.<ib ,n, 25 to 27 c.
Liverpool, ..9 c.
Skins, Deer, in hair, oer jb. 20 to 30 c.
Red, di to, 26 to 33 c.
naka-R .ot", per lb. 20 c. to 42
o-ar, Havanna, while, per 11. 17 to iS c.
Brown, per io. ji to 12c.
IVjuicova jo, per cwt. i 3 d. to 13 4.
Lump, per Ib. 24 c.
Loai, relincd, 26 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 C.
allow, relin 0, per lb. 9 c.
, -er l»ox 13-d. 33c. Co 67c.
r, J'ew-Jerley, to the. brl. j dol.
c'a'ohna, 32 $ai. idol. 33 c. to 10 o 1 7c.
i urpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. 07 c. to 2 dols.
1 ea, H)Ion, lb. 93 c. to 1 dof. :.
H>fon lkin, 53 c. to 67
Soufhoru;, 50c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 31 c. to 33
Tobacco, James River, best. per cwt.' 3 dols. 60
to 3 duls. 73 c.
Inferior, 3 dols. 33c.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahan® jck., 3 dols. '33 c.
C ;loured Maryland, 5 dl. 33 c. to 8 d
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leal", a dols- 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dois-. to 1 dols. 23 c. 1
Carolina, old, 2 4..i5. 7 c to 3d 1
Qat.olinrf,.n-w, z ools. 7c. ro 3 do.
W ne, Madeira, per pipe, 176 dl. t-o 226 dl. 67c:
Liibon, —— j2c to 120
'i eneriffe, pe; gal. 63,
Fayal, ■ ■ 52
it, per pije/irjdu]. 33 c .
Sherry, per gal. 90 c. to id, 20c. J
METEOROLOGICAL OBSEHVA7IUSS t ■
September, :"03.
D H Bar. T/icr. Wird. if feat '
mdntfday, 26. - 29. 9 57 W. /c(V.'
2 »>■ 9 N W_. d„
Thurjday, 2.. ; 30. o SJ " "H. "
« JO-OS, SJ_ N.N.2. do "
Friday, 28. : 30.25 37 N. "
g -°- 2 59. do. A _"
Saturday, 29.7 30.4 . N. W.
: 3°- 4 <-3 jS. W. & /
Sunday, 30. - 30.1 51 !iJ VV.
2 3Q- 0 _72 | s S.W do "
Monday, I. 729. .5 52 ?T~E' 'Tj^
%l^ r _ c _22_7> _2»_ _do l _ .
Tuejday, 2, 7 27.95 40 N. I
_ 2 30. q 54 do.
-ro r""s a l~e;
A BOUT 100,000 acres of Land, I vin r near
il Whiteilowo, in tbe-flite of New-Ypik, on
v ' ""rth fide of t lie M-jbawk river, fining
soblfborough, and will be JoW- either iir parcels
r together, as may suit tbe* purdi.fcr*.
N. 15. The Bb..vr trat> of land is. of the fir!>
quality in the ((ate, clvrfiy timbered with beac)\
in>, maple, well watered; ... c . mains m- „nIU
}' h « Id.-ii.itjjr: , tliis tract, lituM
-.ted within a few mi.es of tV'i.i eftown (which*
intaint upwards of five thoui.md inhabitants)
'ithanealy and convenient .vater canijf >0
Schenectady, Albany, a v J Ne.-.. YOlk, m .U, it ...
bjeft for any per«...-:s inclined to fjctle ir, ariS ren
er it an extremely advanta. roils pmchafe for
•ii»» «r w »»- .jrtali? their money in land of
an encieafing value. The traci or any .-art
"f it, will be li>M very low <\-,r caili, or for part
• »»<• the rem-"'" » -g " yin -nt s at distant peii
is. Enquire at Ho. 2 -» 9 ,-o fl leet , near the
1 tn«ik .; New Yoik.
Julv 19.
JUST PUB rSH'ED
By E. Oswald;
(Pri.cc Eh t , ,i Pcr-ee 1
FI V E LE T VHR s,
addreffeti ?t> t!ie
'fcomanry of the United States:
. lOfc 1 AiN IG lorn. t. i vat-lons on the
54,.. ;r,e oi \j 1 ■ \ Z)i >■ ano Mi Secreca
> L u " :]i '• 10 cdat.i.li ,1 M ni'ufaftures ,
0; .1 FARMER. Thjis pa,Ti( HI , fi>,high y'in
tending at this period, it..h us h*.: at the f.llow.
jj. ues : at Mr. 01/.aid'; int.ng Office, Na
Aaatfcei-ftiet-t ;at 1... .200, Maiicet ltreeu
at Mr. Dobfor.'s, 4 t", S-iith " conJ-ftieet ;at
Mr. C .i.<(hank.-, 91, Mll t-IVreet j at Mr,
-"km-s, zz. W, ker.ilreet r !t Mr. Young's
b. W, corncr of Coelnuc ana Second-Greets.
August 21..
Terres a Vendre
' t<n fc'is butt ['tuple,—
-On. VOIR, 1 lixa/iitr y:"5 Vriiii. . .Uis cens, foix
<>nte qoaro.ze uric ft Vie piece,
•' m 3 ! ~ '<• 'rueux j a Caroline Me
nil lon at?, leD;ft,iade Xou ry rcrres
1 • t « c!a;jj iiß* ct niiec et Talubie,
u !c3 i;.. v-.fs lone incoonu •;j i :ivii -n virtgt lituea
dc Col".i«bie. ia Ci»pita!.e, i t coiitigues Ila ville
do (-ariib;idge, oo ii y a L\jJlege» et Cjor luperi
eure. A environ uze li -.r,, ii y a bunne navj
jet il eft _proba;)'e, Que dans guejque
it Tii.>n 1 li-jra navij.vJe ie Grand Saiude, rivier<|
uu. an-olft Its njcmt • li.fe font agreabk~
in ;' v d• v.- Jlfic -i u c.ncaux et v.'.llons charm.-nw
prop.- fia c-::uie on j-:, Ou cotoh, du mail
... ciu p■-1 it v-raiji j ec do,;: i.nc ; ; ■ '.»rtioh confider
abttf peuL aitcin :r;t .. vertir tn pniries fertiles«
it 'i -peut-ctre tjueioi }»olftble <fe rencontfer tint.
P- 5 ' " i-' terre a vendre d ins aucun aucr*
c -:21s Jir.s jet j ; jc;ji.,ons de Tacliat,
on !es rtndi a trcs cOiTimodes.
S inlornier a 1 irnpiififisrie de la Gazette Na»
lionale. Sept. 5.
LxINDS FOR SALE,
T\ t a U- II feirlod C 1 ,:r . . SWiTY-FIVH
m. THOUSAND T11.1!*..; TIVi.DRED AND
SEVENTY FOUR ACHES OF LAND, \ n one
"X 1 ! -■ f the state of
onu t h-c j rolina, in tliedi!h C! oWi ne ty-(ix- -•! t
.1 oated-in a hue healtn.. cturrfi 4 ,free from fever
"S ue Hit J miles ir ijn Cilombia, the feat
ai govc.iiinent. Thj land ; t c nlguous to the
■ 1 ■ 1 of CamariJgr, -.vheie are a .eminary for the
.1 .uctii.fi rfi ybut[i, and i.u. .n;ii.; law court, it
3at prcl. I,t wl.i-hin <b.i U t thiiiy-ijyo miles of good
iav,ja.io«i, Cvi t h a . ohaoi,,! . ivjng the river,
1 , ,j ,-Crea. Saluoa, i, ;\fs along one fide
lan 1. oi j..s nit ..- .us.. J iie land is beauli- ~
ill,; diveiPfi d into twills and ». «, an d is per
ta'/ calculated for t coiuite of tobacco,
- l-ton. In Ji in corny and. fm.ill ; a great
'I'd;.'-.-tion 61 it;-, a.- ks nude tieado'w
I t> P.«'hnps,' lull's : ~-J y of land, focii™
■i-rnflanced, tor fai'e inVn, o.i.en.f the U. States.
I I.e rerms of payment will fcirnconvenient to
r.e pyVchalet or purchaitis. Apply tollvx P inter.
Augultag. Jawtf
plans
CF THT 7 . CITy 08. VVyd Sfr^GTON
FOR SALE BY
MESSRS. Dili 1 or, Y.Kisft-'C-oldhwk, an«
C'aity, in this city.
Sept. i-j. ttt
Kr,v " o'■ '■ ll - | Tir-Mjanta— —
PRINTID BY
CHI LD S AMD SWA IN E,
AT THtIR OFHC'e NO. 2 j, (i; r, jl-STK£ET,
yE A R FIFTH- STR F. £ f f
T « i L A D £ L t Jl | A #