Vol. I.
AUTHENTIC
A CONSTITUTION or form of go
vernment for the state ot KEN
TUCKY.
We the Riprefentatr i cf the -Pfy e cj the
State of Kentucky in Convention afent
iled, do ordain and eflahlijk litis Conjli
lulion for its p-overnmcni.
ARTICLE I.
Sec. i-HP II E powers of govirnmcn't
X shall be dividad into three
, diftinft departments, each 01 them to
be confided to a separate body of ma
gi ft racy, to wit: those which arc legisla
tive to one, tliofe which are executive
to another, and those which are judici
ary to another.
Sec. 2. No perfoti or coHefiion of
persons being of one of these depart
ments, shall exercise any power pro
perly belonging to either of the others,
cxccpt in the instances herein after ex
pressly permitted.
Sec. 3. The legiflativc power of this
commonwealth shall be vested in a ge
neral allemb!}', which shall consist ol a
Senate and House of Reprelentalivcs.
Sec. 4. The Representatives shall be
chosen anrjually, by the qualified elec
tors of each county refpettively on the
fir ft Tuesday in May ; but the several
elections may be coutinucd for three
days, if, in the opinion of the presiding
officer or officers it fliall be necefiary,
;yid no longer.
Sec. 5. No person fliall be a repre
sentative, who shall not have attained
the age of twenty lour years, and have
been a citizen and inhabitant of the
state two years next preceding his elec
tion, and the last fix months thereof an
inhabitant of the county in which he
may be chosen ; uulefs he shall have
been absent on the public b :fmefs of
the United States or of this state.
Sec. 6. Within two years after the
firft meeting of the general assembly and
within every subsequent term of four
vears, an enumeration of the free male
inhabitants above twenty-one years of
age, fliall be made in luch manner as
may be diictted by law. The number
of reprcfentatives fliall at the several
periods ot making such enumeration
be fixed by the legislature, and appor
tioned among the several counli;s, ac
cording to the number of free male in
habitants above the age of twenty-one
vears in each, and fliall never be left
than forty nor greater than one hun
dred ; but no county hereafter erected,
shall be entitled to a separate repref»nt
ation, until a lufficient number of free
male inhabitants above the age of twen
ty-one years fliall be contained within
it, to entitle them to one repreientativs
agreeable to the ratio which fliall then
be established.
Sec. 7. The Senators fliall be chofcn
for four years.
Sec. 8. Until the firft enumeration
be made, the Senate shall consist cf
eleven members, and thereafter for eve
ry four members added to the house of
representatives, one member shall be
added to the Senate.
Sec. 9. In chufing the Senate, one
member at least shall be elcfted from
cach county, until the number of coun
ties is equal to the number of Senators :
after which, when a new county is
made, it shall, as to the choice of Sena
tors, be confidcred as being a part of the
county or counties from which it fliall
have "been taken.
Sec. 10. The Senate shall be chosen
in the following manner : All persons
qualified to vote for representatives,
shall on the firft Tuesday in May in the
present year, and on the fame day in
every fourth year for ever thereafter,
at the place appointed by law for chu
fing representatives, elc£t by ballot, by
a majority of votes as many persons as
they areentitled to have for reprefenta
tivesfor their respective countics, to be
electors cf the Senate.
F.y P. F R E N EA U : Fubiijhed Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Doi.lars per an
M O N D A Y, puie 25, 1792.
Sec. 11. Noperfon(hall be chosen
i an elector, who iiiall not have reJided
j in the fcate three years next before llij
I election, and who (hall not have at-
I lamed the age of tvventy-fcyen years.
See. 12. The electors of the Senate.
| (nail meet at such place as shall be ap
pointed for convening the legiflatnrc ;
on the third Tuesday in May in the
present year, and on the fame day in
every fourth year forever thereafter,;
and they or a majority of thirm so met,
(hall proceed to elect by ballot as'Se
i nators, men of the most wisdom, exne
| i ience and virtue, above twenty-seven
| years of age, who fh»ll have been refi
; dents of tiie fistc above two whole years
| next preceding ths election. If on the
i hallot two or more persons shall have
! an equtl number of ballots in their fa
| vour, by which the choice shall npt*be
| determined by the firft ballot, then the
! electors shall again ballot before they
j separate, in which they shall be con
[lined to the persons, who on thefirfl
ballot shall have had an equal number,
and they who shall have the grcateft
; number in their favour on the second
Fallot, shall be accordingly declared
and returned duly elected ; and if on
the second ballot an equal number shall
'ftiil be in favour of two or more per
| ions, then..the elcclion shall be deter
| mined by lot, between thole who have
■ equal numbers; which proceedings of
the electors fhallbe certified under their
hands, and returned to the secretary
for the time being ; to whom shall also
be made by the proper officers, returns
of the perlons chosen as electors in the
refpcctive counties.
Sec. 13. The electors of senators
shall judge of the qualifications and
elections of members of their own body
—and on a contefled election, fliall ad
mit to a feat as an elector, such qualifi
ed pcrlon as shall appear to them to have
the greatest number of legal votes in his
favour.
Sec. 14. The electors, immediately
on their meeting and before they pro
ceed to the election of Senators, fliall
tak* an oath or make affirmation of
fidelity to this ftatc, and also an
oath or affirmation to elect without
favour, affection, partiality or pre
judice, such person for governor and
iuch persons for senators, as they in
their judgment and conscience, believe
best qualified for the refpn&ive offices.
Sec. 15. That in cafe of refufal,
death, retignation, difqualification or
removal oat of this ftatc of any senator,
the senate fliall immediately thereupon
or at their next meeting thereafter, elect
by ballot, in the fame manner as the
electors arc herein directed to chufe
senators, another person in his place,
for the residue of the laid term of four
years.
Sec. 16. The general aflcm'oly fliall
meet on the nrft Mcriday in November
in every year, 'till the time of their
meeting fliall be altered by the lcgifla
ture, unlcfs fooncr convened by the
governor..
Sec. 17, Each house shall chufe its
speaker and other officers, and the fc
nato shall also chufe a speaker pro tem
pore, when their speaker fhail cxercife
the office of governor.
Sec. 18. Each house fliall judge of
the qualifications of its members ; con
tefled elections fliall be determined by
a committee to be fclc&ed, formed and
regulated, in iuch manner as flia'l be
dire&cd by law. A majority of each
house fliall constitute a quorum to do
bufmefs, but a fmallcr number may ad
journ from day to day, and may be au
thorized by law to compel the attend
ance of absent members, in such man
ner and under such penalties as may be
provided.
Sec. 19. Each house may determine
the rules of its proceedings, punish its
members for difoiderly behaviour, and
with the concurrence of two thirds, ex-
pel a member ; but not a second time fcr
the f.ime cause.
See. co, Each house shall keep a
journal of its proceedings and publish
them weekly, except such parts of them
as m.iy require iecrefy, and the .yeas
and nays of the members on any ques
tion, fliall, at the defirc of any two
of them, h"• entercu on the journals.
Sec. 21. The doors of cach house and
of committees of the whole, {hall be
open, unless when the bufmefs fliall be
such as ought to be kept secret.
See. 22. Neither hotilc shall-, with-,
out the con/ent of the other, adjourn
for more than three days ; nor to any
otfcer place than that in which the two
Ho.uses shall be fitting.
Sec. 23. The members of the Gene
ral Alfembly, andclcftors of the Senate,
shall receive from the public treasury,
a compensation for theirferviccs, which
for the present fliall be fix {hillings a
day during their attendance on, going
to, and returning from the legifljture,
and the place for chufing the Senators ;
but the fame may be increased or dimi
mlhed by law, if circumstances shall
require it, but no alteration shall be
made, to take effect during the existence
of the legislature which shall make such
alteration : They shall in all cases ex
cepttrcafon, felony, breach or surety of
the peace, be piivilegcd from arrest
during their attendance at the Session
of the refpeftivehcufes, and at theplace
for cliuhng Senators, and in going to
and returning from the lame ; And for
any fpeccli or debate in either house,
they shall not be questioned in any o
ther place. .
L
Sec. 2-j. No Senator or Reprcfenta
tive shall, during the time for which he
shall have been elected, or for one year
afterwards, be appointed to any civil
office under this state, which shall have
been created orthe emoluments of which
fliall have been increased, during the
time such Senator or Representative
was in office : Provided that no mem
ber of thefirft legislature which shall be
assembled under this constitution, shall
be precluded from being appointed to
any office which rsay have been created,
during his time of fcrvice in the said
Legislature ; and no rninifler of religi
ous societies, member of Congress or
other person holding any office of pro
fit under the United States or this com
monwealth, except attorneys at law,
justices of the peace, militia officers and
Coroners, fliall be a member of either
Iloufe, during his continuance to ast as
a miniftcr, in Congress or in office.
See. 25. When vacancies happen
in the Hout'e of Rcprel'entatives. the
Speaker shall iflue writs of election to
fill such vacancies.
Sec. 26. All bills for raising reve
nue, shall originate in the House of Re
prefentativss, but the senate may pro
pose amendments as in other bills.
Sec. 27. Each Senator, Representa
tive and Sheriff, shall, before lie be per
mitted to act as such, take an oath or
make affirmation, that he hath not di
rectly or indirectly, given or promised
any bribe or treat to procure his electi
on to the said office : and every person
shall be unqualified from serving as a
senator, representative or fneriff, for
the term for which he fliall have been
elected, who shall be convicted of ha
ving given or offered any bribe or
treat, or canvafTed for the said office.
Sec. 28. Every bill which shall
have palled both houses, shall be prefen
tedto the governor, if he approve he
shall sign it, but if he shall noi. approve,
he fliall return it with his objections, to
the House in which it shall have ori
ginated, who shall enter the objections
at large upon their journals and proceed
to rcconiider it ; if after such rc
confidsration, two thirds of that House
shall agree to pass the bill, it shall be
lent with the objections to the other
House. by which it {hall likewise be
reconsidered, and if approved by two
thirds of that House, it fba!l be a law :
but in ! ::ch cases, the votes of both hou
| fss fhail be determined by yeas and nays,
and the names of the perlbns voting im
or against. the bill, shall be entered or*
the journals of eaeli Iloufe relpectively;
if any bill fhall'not be returned by the
governor witjsin ten days (Sundays ex
cepted) after \ fliall have been presen
ted to him, it shall be a law in 1 ike man
ner as if he had liened it ; unless the
General' alTcmbly by their adjournment
pre.vent its return, in which cafe it {hall
be a law, unless sent back within three
days after their next meeting.
Sec. 29. Every order, refoluticn or
vote, towhich ihe concurrence of both
Iloufes may be necessary, e::cept on a
question of adjournment, shall be pre
sented to the governor, and before it
shall take efirett, be approved bv him;
or, being disapproved, shall be re-pas
sed by two thirdscf both houfes,accord
ing to the rules and limitations pre
fenbed in cafe of a bill.
ARTICLE 11.
Sec 1. THE Supreme executive pow
er of this commonwealth lhall be veiled
in a governor.
Sec. 2. The governor shall be cho
sen by the electors of the Senate, at the
fame time, at the fame place, and in the
fame manner that they are herein direc
ted to elect Senators, and the said elec
tors shall make return of their proceed
ings in the choice of a governor, to the
Secretary for the time being.
Sec. 3. The governor lhall hold his
office during tour years from the fir!t
day of June next ensuing his election.
See. 4. He shall be .'t lcaft thirty
years of age, and have been a citizen
and inhabitant of this state at lead two
years next before his election, unless h"
shall have been absent on the public, l>u
finef* of the United States or of this
State.
See. 5. No member of Congrcfs or
person holding any office under the U
nitcd States, or this state, shall exercise
the office of governor.
Sec. 6. The governor shall at slated
times, receive for his services, a com
pensation, which fliall neither lie in
crcafcd nor diminiflied during the peri
od for which he shall have been elected.
Sec. 7. He fliall be commander i:i
chief of the Army and Navy of this
commonwealth, and of the militia ex
cept when they shall be called into the
fervicc of the United States.
Sec. 8. lie fliall nominate, and by and
with the advice and consent of the Se
nate, appoint all officers, whose offices
are cftablifhcd by this conflitution, or
fliall be cftablifhcd by law : and whose
appointments are not herein ctherwifc
provided for ; but 110 person shall be
appointed to an office within any coun
ty, who fliall not have'been a citizen
and inhabitant therein one year next
before his appointment, if the county
fliall have been so long erected ; but if
it fliall not have been so long erected,
then within the limits of the county
or counties out of which it fliall have
been taken.
Sec. 9. The governor lhall have
power to fill up all vacancies, that may
happen'during the recess of the Senate,
by granting commissions which shall
expiie at the end of their next (e ffion.
Sec. 10. He fliall have power to re
mit fines and forfeitures, and grant re
prieves and pardons, except in cases of
impeachment ; in cases, of treason, lie
fliall have power to grant reprieves
until the end of the next session of the
General AiTembly, in whom the power
of pardoning fliall be vested.
Sec. 11. He may rcquiro informa
tion in writing from the officers in the
executive department upon any subject
relating to the duties ol their respective
offices.
Sec. 12. He shall from time to time
give to the general assembly information
of the state of the commonwealth, and
Numb. 69recommend to thc'.r confideratioil, fuel,
measures as he ih .11 judge expedient.
Sec. 13. x-"e may on extraordinary occa
sions convene the general afTembly, and in
cafe or disagreement between the two
Jioufes, with respect to the time of ad
inurnment, adjourn them to fucli time as
lie lhall think proper not exceeding four
months.
Sec. 14. He {hall take care that the laws
be faithfully executed.
Sec. 15. In cafe of the death or refijna
tion of the governor, or of hi removal
from office, tie speaker of the Senate (hall
exercise the office of governor, until ar.o
----1 j?r shall be duly qualified.
See. 16. An attorney general f .cillbe ap
pointed and commiffionefl during good be
!. p. inr; he {hall appear for the fcothmou
v. ealth ill all criminal prosecutions, and iti
a'l civil cases, in which the commonwealth
Shall be interested, in any of the Superiot
court.,; shall give his opinion when callee
l!pon for that purpose, by either branch c!
it e legifiature or by tile executive, and Shal
, p-1 form such other duties as fliail be enjoin
him by law.
Sec. i 7. A fccretary inall be appointed
and conimiflioned during the governor':
cc-itinuance in office, if he fha.ll so long be
have himfelf well, he shall keep a fair re-
S-;ifler of, and attest all the osiicial acts ant
proceedings of the governor, and fiial
when required, lay the fame 'and all pa
pers, minutes and vouchers relative there
to before either branch of the legidsttwre.
at! flnll perform such other duties a.
ii.aH be enjoined him by law.
[To be ccnchidedin cur nexf.J
The following AddreSs to the Public on thefub
jc&. of rendering Shingles incoml vfiible, by Capt
John ?.lacpherfon.- is reprintedfrom the Fed
era! Gazette of May at the requefi nf tha
gentleman.
Ir is some time Since I invented amethoc
to prevent honfes from being burnt
Nor could a house, prepared a; I (hall di
rect, be burnt, though fleaks «f fire fell or
it: and it was covered with fliingles. /
multiplicity of other matters, pre\ ented mi
publishing it as soon as I intended. Bu
lately feeing an ac ount of the fire at Mar
blehead, made me sorry I had not publifiiec
it sooner, and determined me to do it a
soon as poflible ; the expenfeis trifling, anc
houses so prepared, are not only fecarec
from fire, but will extinguish any fire tha
falls on them.
The method to preserve houses from fire
i-. es follows : Let every piece of timber
before it is put on a building, be firSt foakec
in Strong brine for three weeks. This ma)
be done at a small expense, as troughs ma;
be made large ar.d Jong enough, to admi:
the longest piece of timber used about :
ho life. I think fix such trotigh" would bf
fufficient for a larger city than any in Ame
rica, though building as fact as we now arc
doing. How long they would last, lan
sure no man can tell. Indeed it appears tc
me they never would decay, if kept full oi
pickle. When such troughs are filled wit!
fhingies, and weights put on to fink them,
little more pickle will be wanted lor a long
time, as the sap and every watery particle
Will be expunged by the brine, which will
ta'-e pofitfliou of every pore, and when
brine has got that pofleffion, I believe it can
not be dispelled by any thing, not even bv
quicksilver, (though this I have never tried
{am sure fire cannot; for 1 funka piece oi
Slave, and a piece of {hing'.e in a bowl oi
Strong pickle fourteen days, then, dried
them in the fun ; I afterwards put them
where there was a considerable draught of
air, thin put burning coals-on them ; they
did not burn but e'Ktinguifhed the fire. I then
put them on the parlour fire—they near
ly cxtiugn:ilied that, but were not burnt.
Houses .Ircady Ihingled, as it would be
expenlive to uncover them, and prepare the
fliingles, a i firft directed, I believe, if blank
ets were steeped in Strong brine, and spread
over the roof, and frequently wet with
brine tram a watering paa, and that me
thod contjjiiu -i till the under psrt of the
{luigles tafred Salt to thetongue, it Would
Save many lives, houses &c.
By this method houses would last much
longer than they now do, and their inhabi
tants, especially in inland parts, preserve
better-health than they now do, a: the air
in iioufes thus prepared would be iomething
Similar to sea air. Water will in time dif
foive fait; therefore it would be prudent,
ai ter long rains, to sprinkle roofs with brine
JOHN MACPHERSON.
May 14, 1792.
+4+ No doubt every Printer, that is blef
fea with philanthropy, will make this im
provement known as soon as he can.
FOREIGN NEWS.
LEY DEN, April , 9 .
THEdiviiions in tlie court of theStachhol
der, so far from diminishing, increase ever
d v. Ihe intrigues againit the grand pen
sionary redouble, and as several courtiers
a, e his e -emies, it will not be surprising if
they Should succeed in forcing hiin to re
figu. The extreme embarrafflnent of the
h.lances is a circumstance, which limit prove
fatal to more than one person in place at
the present moment.
Lmidin, April 22. Sofr.e of the advocates
for all forts of eftablilhed power, and all
kinds of prescriptive abuse, complain of
whatfhey are pleased to call the criminal
upir.enefs of government in negle£ting to
crush by the ftronghapd of authority those
whofugtre.it the expediency, or maintain
the right of co.-resting the inherent defects,
or repairing the breaches that time has
made in the .iritilh conflitution. These
gentlemen forget that altho'the excise is in
rull vigour, the Jlar-chambcr is not yet re-
Itored, and that miliilters cannot exert an
authority which they d.Q not pollefs.
His holiness ti:e Pope lias iflued several
bull-, excommunicating all free-mafons, as
the authors, abettors, and accomplices of
ail tiie difoie'ers at present raging in the
fiate.; and kingdom of Europe.
The r.aron Bielke, Secretary to the late
king of Swede::, was one of the foremoft in
perpetrating his death. After being ap
prehended, he confeffed the cfime but ad
ded he had taken cace to prevent the pu
nilhment preparing for him, and the riik oi
being compelled by torture to betray thofc
who had joined him in a plan to delivei
Sweden from a tyrant. He soon after ex
pired in consequence of poison he had fvval
lowed. The next day his body was drawn
on a hurdle, conduced by the executioner
and the officers of justice to the place wh:re
malefactors aire exposed to public view.—
\ detachment of dragoons escorted the
proceSon.
That two men (the Emperor of Moroc
co and his brother) Ihould destroy each o
ther in a contelt for tyrannic sway, wbuld
in any other country except Morocco, leac
the people to try if they could not emanci
pate themselves from the fetters witl
which they have been lb long galled—bui
this unhappy race have not yet learned t(
think. It was the opinion of Helvetius
th»: the world, being enslaved as it is bj
prejudices, would soon rid itfelf both oi
delpotifln and fuperftitibn if a few bold,
leading truths- were set -on the wing, auc
defended as they ought to be, by a" final
number of men of virtue, independence
and refolistion.
Ail attempts to carry into execution the
plans ot the Empress of Russia, in Sweden
lriuft now b. laid afule ; and lo far not oa
ly the French, but the Englilh, are deliver,
ed from an imminent embarraflme'nt.—Ai
the time of the king ofSweden's death, the
Ruffians had 27 ihips of the line actuallj
ready ior sea. The Swedes were to fur
ni!h lix, and the king was to have com.
manded a body of troops, for the double
purpose of an attack on France, and o
forming a Ruffian settlement in the Medi
teranean —an object which the
court couid not contemplate with indif
ference.
The catafhophe of the king of Swedei
ought to open the eyes of kings. In tin
hands of the people, even when they me
rit indignation, kings are not exposed t<
violence or to inlidious' machination —bu
indignant nobles do not treat potentate
wit a equal indulgence : and, without opei
remittance, meditate infernal designs, whicl
are carried into execution without regarc
to morality, to religion, or to those princi
pies of humanity which are infeparablt
trom the colleitive body of every people
chat has emerged from barbarism. One
criterion of the present times seems to be
that in most of the European nations
the great body of the people are illuminat
ed, and are manifeftly progressive, while the
"uperior orders, the noblelie, &c. move re
trograde in every line of human excellence
Perhaps, the peers of the British nation maj
byfomebe an exception to the general fj f.
tern- and if the prerogative of the crown hac
not been extended under the present ad
ministration, to an unprecedented pitch,
the houl'e of peers might have appeared ai
this aira in ail their glory. But the blow
which was aimed at the conltitution of thi:
country in the year 1784, hasfunkus in the
I'cale of nations ; and it is allowed by the
molt enlightened politicians, that in 110 pe
riod, lince the revolution, was the influ
ence bf the crown so alarming in this coun
try, from the creation of peers; from the
application of the public revenue, as the
medium of corruption; from the impress oi
ieamen, in frivolous armaments, and from
Inch an extenfioa of the excise laws, and
every other species of oppression, as would
have been reliiled with a iyitematic oppo
litionin former times, which must have
lhaken the executive government, or hur
led deftruaion on the responsible adminif
tiation. Confidence is a new phraseology
unknown to a tree country, when confi
dence, in ministers is at variance with ra
tional conviction. Jealousy is the princi
ple which produces and maintains every
tree government ; and until an equal re
presentation of the people forms the legifla
uire, the term confidence, when applied to
any exilti.jg administration, is an insult to
the human underltanding.
Paiis, April 20. Since the decree pro
lcribing all clerical habits, out of church, fev—
era]l biiliops have gone to the alfembly in
di els coats, and with bags to their hair.
That decree is not the least important pas
sed by the present legifiatiye body. It is a
deep and dreadiui blow to' fuperltition, of
which the vulgar ever received more by the
eyes than by the ears. That it is deemed
so by the pnefthood, and other avowed
enem.es to the conltitution, is proved bv
their rage, on occasion offt change o? garb,
which would otherwise be a matter of so
much indifference ; but they plainly per
ceive, that they have lolt their molt power
ful engine of imposture.
PHILADELPHIA.
June 25, 1792.
Captainjofeph Brandt, the principal war
rior chief of the Six Nations of Indians, ar
rived in this city 0:1 Wednesday evening
lafU it is said his errant is a visit to a num
ber ofhis acquaintance residing here, and
to pay his respects to the Preiident of the
United States.
Accounts from Cape Francois are Yeceiv
ed to the third of June. At that time there
was not the least appearance of the re-esta
blishment of peace, or of any succour to the
white inhabitants, and every day exhibited
fre(h scenes of devaluation. Twenty fami
lies came in the vefiel that brought these ac
counts.
On th& 14thinft. Gen. Anthony Wayne,
reached Pittlburgh. On entering the town
he was saluted by a discharge of the artille
ry from fort layette.
The National Aflembjy of France have
determined to adopt the general principle
of the abolition of the (lave-trade ; that is
they have resolved to proceed in exact con
formity with other nations in effecting £
complete abolition of so infamous an abuse
of commerce."
Editions of the French constitution, ir
seven or eight languages, are now printing
oft to a great extent in Paris, and these art
to be circulated, it is said, wherever the
v rench arnijes go ; a species of artillerj
more dangerous to despotism than the fire
of all the artillery in Europe.
MacauJey, the republican hiftoria'
of England, upon her death-bed recom
mended the writings of Mr. Paine to hei
children, as the belt model of their politica
creed.—lt is said a society is forming 11
England, to have Mr. Paine's political wri
tings printed in such a manner, as, in poin
of price, to render the pui chafe within ev
ery one'., ability, and todiftr'rbute the book
gratis to those whom the tyranny of govern
ment has rendered too poor to expenc
their mite.—Quere, are not Paine'* Right
of man entitled to something of the kind ii
America ? As to Mr. Burke's late writings
they might be printed in a more elegam
style, as being only read by the rich.
The following gentlemen were eleftec
members of the American academy of Art!
and Sciences, at a meeting held in Boftoi:
the 29th of May.—Sir William Hamilton,
knight of the Bath, and fellow of the Eng
lish Royal society—Rev. Joseph Lathrop,
of W.Springfield, M. de Condorcet, of Pa
ris, John Davis, Esq. of Plymouth, and the
Rev. John Mellen, ofßarnftable.
For want of a proper attention in takinj
the wool from Oieeplkins they are generall)
ruined, before they are put into the hand:
of the tanner.—A Connecticut writer re
commends the following method : Asfoo.
»s the (kin is taken from the carcase, spread
it on a horse or a cow, and in fix or eighl
hours the wool will come off better thanir
any other way. After the wool is off,(bread
the Ikin on a pole, and let it hang in the
(hade, till convenient to fend it to the tan
ner.
It is said the people of the United States
are so enlightened, that it is not credible a
Congress chcfen by them (hould be guilt)
of such practices as have been set forth. Il
would be better reafonjng to conclude thai
so enlightened a people will not fuffer fnci:
practices to be continued in a body that de
pends on their choice.- Human nature is
Its frailty is never more visible than
in money matters. When thole concerned
in them have power also, which is one tempt
er, and can thereby create the opportunity
°\ pt ofit, which is another tempter, corruption
will never be incredible. It'not conftantlj
watched, it will be certain. And if not oc
casionally purged off, it may be fatal.
Letters from the weft ward-intimate that
several accounts of Indian murders, depre
dations, thefts, Sic. that have been publiih
ed, are unfounded. What mifchief has
been done, in some parts, is attributed by
many to unprincipled whites, who difgr.ife
themselves like Indians for the purposes of
robbery and horfe-theit.
From a representation made to the French
national aflembly on the gth of April, it ap
pears that the crew of a Dutch (hip in paf
ling the Admiralty ides in the South Seas,
('at. 4 louth, about 2600 leagues weft of the
continent of America) hadfeen a French
Hag displayed from the (hore, and men in
r rench uniforms on the beach, who were
supposed to be Capt. Peyroufe and his crew,
wrecked some time fincein those seas. The
weather was To tempestuous that it was im
poliible to land and take them off.— This
information was afterwards given to the
commandant at the Isle of France who
lent an account ofit to the Cape of'cood
Hope which reached the Cape before the
1- rench veflcsfrom Europe, who were sent
out' n fearcn of this unfortunate command
er, had toncjied there. 1 heir search will
of conference be immediately directed to
tae Admiralty
Tlis Governor of Virginia has, by pro*,
i lamation, futnmoned the legislature of thut
Hate to meet on the firft day of October
next, in the city of Richmond.
A veflel arrived here on Wednesday last
from Havrede Grace, in ji days. At the
time {lie failed from Havre de Grace it wai
currently reported, and generally believed
I there, that the French troops had attacked
and taken Oftend.
j Captain Joseph Brandt, the celebrated
Indian chief, now in this city, is an officer
[in the British Canadian troops ; his fettle
[ mcnt is at Grand river on the north fide of
| Lake Erie.
John Caldwell, Esq. is elected President
of the Bank of Hartford in Connecticut, in
the room of J. Wadfworth Esq. who de
clined. Hezekiah MerriH,Efq. is appoint
ed calhier ; and John Morgan, George Phi
lips, Barnabas Deane, Timothy Burr,
W atfon,Caleb Bell, and Ephraim Root, are
appointed directors.
The following comparative ftatemcnt i.-,
made in a late i rench paper of the forces
of the emigrants out of the kingdom, and
the real effective force, determined to flip
port the revolution, within—viz.—On the
part of the emigrants, 40 knights of the ho
ly ghost— 559 field-officers—one battalion
and an half of infantry on the peace eft?.-*
blifhment—Cavalry, the life-guard;-, the com
pany of Auvergne, and fix hundred naval of
ficers on horse-back-—Artillery. 2 pieces of
3 inches bore-3 ditto of 3& an half inches
bore; no horse, the whole artillerv con
veyed and managed by noblemen.—Provi
sions, daily-bread ; Camp-equipage, the cano
py of heaven; Finances, the credit of the
empress of Russia, presents from the Swe
dish diet; contingent of the king of Sardi
nia ; pious legacy of Leopold ; alms of the
king ot Spain, savings of the cardinal de Ro
han.--On the part of the nation, France can
boast, ift, No knights of the hoW ghost; one
hundred and fifty field officers ; 400 batta
lions of infantry upon the war eftablilh
ment, 220 battalions of cavalry; Artillery
1 0,000 men, 2 battering trains, 3 field eqni
pages, 8000 horse ; Provisions, 500.000 facki
of grain, enough to serve 250,000 men for
one year; forage for Co,ooo horses for
fix months; 6000 horse for the transporta
tion of provision ; tents for 250,000 men—
lin anas 2300,000,000 in national domains
and 70,000,000 in specie in the public trea
sury.
Some have expressed their admiration at
the very considerable desertion of officers
from the French marine, in favor of the
emigrants. Such should recollect that na
val officers are always despotic ; and be
cause they are convinced republican govern
ment would not be practicable on ftfmboard
they very■rationally conclude, that neither
will it answer on terra-firma; and limited
monarchical government is,with these deep
reafoners,involved in the fame predicament.
According to Mr. Hume's theory the
money in every country represents all la
bour and vendible property ; increase the
money therefore, and you increase the por
tion of it which will represent the fame
portion of labour and property, that is to
fay you raise prices. As prices rife, other
nations will undersell the country in so
reign markets, and hence a diminution of
its exports ; whilst the high prices ,n its
own markets will not fail to augment its
imports, the balance of trade will in this
manner turn against it, and the redundant
money will overflow to countries where it
is scarcer 'till a proportional level takes
p ace every where. Since this proportion
a level of money cannot be denied gener
ally to exist, it may be asked on what
pt mciple it is to be accounted for, if it does
not proceed from the influence of plenty of
money on prices ?-and why a nation once
poflefied ot a favourable balance does not
by degrees draw to itfelfthe wealth of all
nations that trade with it P -It is answer
ed ; the effect afenbed by Mr. Hume to the
direfl and necessary influence of an increase
of money on prices ought to be ascribed to
its influence on demand and consumption,
on the taste and manners of those who puf
fers it. \\ ere an augmentation of nation
al coin to take place without augmenting
demand at all, the fuperfluous money would
eithet be locked up or converted into plate,
and no rife of prices nor efflux of money
would enfne, urlefs indeed it should be
lent to foreigners, in which cafe it would
on y go out to return in a greater quantity:
were it to augment demand but to augment
mdu tryin proportion, it is evident there
would be neither a rife of prices, nor a fu
perfluity of money : but should the augment
teuton of money excite demand and confump
trn, and these not excite indujlry in proportion,
the cafe would be different. As far as the
new demand beyond the national industry
might have for its object national produc-
wou a add to their price till the ad
dition should equal the expence of import
ing such articles, and a supply of the de'i
ciency from abroad vould occasion a pro..
pot tional efflux of money. As far as the
new demand might have for its object so
reign luxuries there would be a further efflux
oj money to pay tor them. From these new
importations the balance of trade wou'd
become unfavourable, and the money
w0,,1d continue to overflow to other pla
ces till the demand excited by its excels Should
fa; .0 a level with domestic industry.Judge Pow ell, of Canada, is nov/prifop
er at Qucbec on a charge of high treason :
letters, it is said, having been detested,
written in his name and hand, giving in
formation to his friends in the United
States, how Detroit may be ealily carried.
Rnfus King, Kfii. of New-York, ha': giv
en his opinion on the contested eleflion,con
trary to Mr. Burr : that " it may be rea
sonably doubted whether the canvaflers
are obliged to reje£t the votes of Tio;a —
that part of the votes of Otfego may be
lawfully canvafled—and that all the votes
from Clinton county maybe lawfully can
vafled.".
The loss of Mr. Jay's election i said to
have been occasioned by the rejection of the
Otfego county votes, which il" le;>; ':y re
ceived would have given hjm a majority.
Mr. Burr hasformally given his opinion on
the circumstances ofthe cafe, as ift. Th.vi
Mr. Smith was not flierift" of Otfego v. i ■: i
lie, received and forwarded the .ballot:
( which the constitution expressly requires j
and, ad. That the ballots-delivered by the
deputy of Mr. Smith, could not be legal
ly canvafled-.—Mr. Burr's opinion with re
p,ard to Tioga is, in fnbftance, nearly the
fame, viz. That the ballots of that count;
could not by any fiiftkm or conftruflion be
said to have been delivered b> the fherii'.':
and that therefore they were not entitlec
to be canvafled.
A writer in the B oft on Independent Chroni
lie, after a number of feniibie observation;
on the present Indian war, takes occr'ior
to make the following remark : —" We
have indeed sent miflionariesto ihelndians,
to teach them religion ; and willing enough
are we that they should he faints, and go to
heaven that they may be oi:' of the way of
troubling tis, good folks, here itjon earth.—
Their having towns, or a state by tliem
felves, and being in connexion with us in
civil affairs, cannot allow.—Our con
duct has concluded this to be very impro
per. In fact some. have freely given their
opinions that not only their country, but
the world itfelf is not lai p;e enough to hold
Indians and white people too ; imlefs In
dians can live under the north pole, where
it is winter all the year."
After forae further animailverfions, he
goes on as follows : — " If we wish to have
peace with the Indians, under the consider.
ation of their being men, we-milft go a dif
ferent way to work with them, from what
we have hitherto gone. Our business in a
national view, is, not to convert them to
religion, but to civil life. Let them have
good religious inftruflion, and welcome;
bat national power is a civil thing, and can
only secure, or impart, civil blefTlngs to
mankind. Civilization being a national
object, is no more than a temporal matter ;
for although the light of moral and ration
al truth is neceflary to the reformation of
a barbarous people : yet, as a people, they
are reformed in no other view than being
brought to understand their natural rights.''
Much is said ; n the Dublin papers of
James Napper Tandythe celebrated Irish pa
triot. This gentleman having taken of
fence at some words uttered by John To
ler Esq. the k'.ig'< fol'icitor-general, in the
Irish house of common , t ought proper to
call him publicly to an cc kfo the fame:
jn confeqnence ol which a proiecu'ion was
ordered by the Hojifeagainft Tandy, for a
v iolation of its privileges. II » was accord
ingly arretted, in virtue of the Lord lieute
nants'proclamat.on for that purpof:, and
carried before the nrnpftrates, who. after
forne difcufliori, -ced that Mr. Tan.;,
should be discharged —He was afterwards
brought to the bar ofthe house, on a plea
of an escape, and after some examination
committed prisoner to Newgate on the
charge " of questioning a member for wordr
uttered in debate, and therefore ■ '!;v o/
agrofs violation of the privil res cf the
house," &c.—Three days after, Mr. Tan
dy was discharged from confinement by the
Speaker's warrant, in confeqnence of the
prorogation of the parliament. —Mr. Tandy
appears to poflefs, in a high degree, the con
fidence of the whig people of Ireland, in
opposition to thecourt. The Englilh par
ty on the other hand, hold him and his prin
ciples in detestation, and take everv me
thod in their power to mortify and vex.
him they made even their ballad-men line;
of h'.m in fiich ftraiiu as these during his
confinement :
AH! what are become of the days.
When I fwagger'd and dafh'd through
the town ?
The popular pride, and the gaze,
And the scourge of the courtiers and
crown !
When drefs'd in my Bombardier cloaths
The ladies proc!a : in'd me the dandy
And the crowd bellow'd out 1 there he gees ;
" That's the 'great—there's the bold
Napper Tandy 1"—
The Conduct of the Jacobin club, misre
presented by partial foreign papers, has giv
en uneasiness 1 o the friends of liberty, good
order and the French, in this portion ofthe
globe. Their strenuous and fuccef-ful op
position to ininiftry has been looked upon
as the victory of faction over eftabliftied au
thority. The word Club gives an idea of
a confined knot of men, and when she ob
je£t of that club isknown to be political o
plnlons, the expreflion itfelf is almost fy
nonymous to faction : but givt them their i
otiier name. Society of friends to the con-1
ftitution ; —To this add, that a majority'
oi the leading men in the tuition belong to
the Society, and you totally change their
This Society, fundamentally
republican, has ionfr viewed with regret and
opposed with firmnefs flie cloVotful mea
sures of the ex-minulry. Mniifters .ire
changed, the views' of the society are ful
fdlsd; decisive measures are adopted ; —the
oppoiicion of the Jacobins will (tie away,
until a freih cuufe call:; it into action.
s (Gen. yldv.)
1 he insult offered by the people of Pari*
to the bust and name of Fayette, has given
pain to all who have ever heard a name,
.which alone gives an ixfe of real greatness
and diiinterelted patriodfiu. This insult,
however umerited, is) perhaps not wholly
to be attributed to the blind and unthink
ing madness of amob. It is probable that
L:: Fayette has (hewn himfelf.too prudent in
theiate crisis, and that his caution.by mind;
enthusiastic of liberty, may have been mis
taken for want of zeal in the go:>d cause,
It is certain that a line of conduct ftri&ly
proper in fettled and quiet timer, does not
iuit, in times of political agitation. When
parties run high, the good cause riiuft be
kipported with enthusiasm ;.:id übfolute'vi
olence, to outweigh the aflivity and extra-'
vagance of opposite part;sans: {Gm. .Adv.)
We have received St. Domingo papers to
the 26th of May. They are molly filled
with the minute:; of tiie proceedings of the
colonial and other local matters
of rather an unimportant nature. The fid;
lowing fele&ipri;, however, may be worth
attention.
Capc Fraixcis, May 22 —26. Some de
structive fatality appears to pursue this co
lony to its titter detraction. While we
live, or r.ithcr while we expire under the
sword of our nffaffins, instead of uniting to
ward off the blow that isthreatened by our
enemies, we tamely consent to become their
victim , merely for the pleasure of feeing
each other deftroyrd. The enemy, it i.
well known, have taken an oath to each
other to destroy tiie white population of
the island ; so that we" arc i n fa.i executing
upon ourselves tliis execrable proscription.
It is ufeJef to difiemble any longer—things
have come to a crilis, and our perfidious
enemies are only waiting a junction of for
ces, and some further information, to effect
our ruin ; v..' 1 i!e nearly one half of our bre
thren are either murdcrpd, or wholly cx
haufted by the fatigues of this abominable
warfare, or the diseases that attend it
Should we continue longer in our lethargy,
what a fpeflacle (hall we exhibit to the
world—how incredible will our conduct
appear.—lt is high time to emerge from
our slumbers, and bring ourselves to believe
that we have no resource but in ourselves,
and by uniting hearts, minds, and means,
to march cut against our enemies, conquer
them and punifl) them—we are still a for
midable force against an army of cowardly
assassins, if only a union of hearts and cou
rage are our concomitants—let us recollect
that a single glance from a man of resolu
tion is death to a coward.—Let us keep a
steady eye upon the band of African rob
bers, and they will be either extirpated or
scattered —their legions will fly before us,
and the sword of the law fliall devour those
that escape that of war. —Then, and not till
then, will happiness return to St. Domingo,
and peace and prosperity will revisit iier
shores—but it we continue in petty quar
rels with each other, lurking in our houses,
a id leaving the open country to the enemy,
we fliall be loft, and we fliall deserve to be
loft—what part will then be left to be acted
by the truly brave and truly patriotic ?
what, but to imitate the conduct of Cefar.
who in limilar circumstances, covered his
head with his mantle, and bade his enemies
ft.-'ke !—One main reason of the inactivity
so observable at the Cape, is the expectation
of the troops that have been so long promis
ed—this expectation for a time was excufe
able, and the arrival of a powerful army
seemed to be the moment for making a fnc
cefsful attack—but, now, when we find
ourselves so basely deceived, we fhoiikl on
ly take counsel from despair—we inuft, in
fliort, conquer or die—but if our union is
firm, and our plans judiciously laid, we fliall
not fink under our enemies, we fliall con
quer and redeem the country.
A committee of the Colonial Aflembly, about
the middle of May repotted a plan of a confli
tution for the colony. The papers received do
not gve a copv of it. The Assembly have be
gun to discuss its merits; but their proceedings,
owing to the reflridlioiis laid on theprels, do not
appear.
Some flir hasbeen made in the AfTembly, to
render its operation independent of the National
Affemblv, by rcprefenting that it has not the right
to repeal the confiitutional law of the 28th of
September, which tefpeQs the colonies ; and
that the Colonial Aifembly holding its powers as
the National Aifembly does, from the Conflic
ting Aifembly, will acknowledge no other law
as their guide 111 enacting those concerning the
interna! government of St. Domingo, than the
conllitution law of the 28th of September. It is
propoild to fubmi: to the King, for his approba
tion, their laws, in the fame manner as the Na
tional Aflembly. And also to draw up an ac
count of the decrees proposed and enaitedby the
conflituting ant legilbtivc Affemblies'relative to
-therolonies, wit'i observations to prove, that the
want of local knowled /• in thoH: bodies, his not
a little contributed to blow up ibe ilime of dis
cord, and is one of the fir 0 caufesof tbe c'il ITIII -
tics fullered in St. Domingo;—that the Nati
onal Allembly mav clearly fee the propriety of
leaving it to the colonies to enact the laws which
are to-govem ihem—without which power, the
colonies cannot exill.
Mr. a member of the Colonial As
fembly, propoled :o abolish perianal flnvery, and
to decree, as eflential to the exiflenceof fugarco
lonics, a fpccies ol slavery, binding the Have to
the foil. He also proposed regulations foibid
diurT the use of slaves for domeflic services, ; nd
to fill their places by hired freemen.— He repre
sented, in lupport of this plan, domestic slaves
as the cause of the present diflurbanees, from the
opportunities they had of feeing, heaving and
learning. He also infilled on the advantages of
encreafin ft the population of whites by this means
and thereby oppcling, with more force, any at
tempts of the negroes—a,.d on the p'rofpect of
a more careful culture, by restoring to the fuear
plantations ico,ooo working negroes. These
piopofuionsoi Mr. Favranges, who appear to be
an eloquent and influential member, were order
ed to lie on the table, to be taken up after the
completion of the confittution. The Aflembly
appears unanimously of opinion, that slavery in
u>me shape or other, is necefiary to the verv ex
illence of the ftigar colonies.
Addrsffcd to the municipality officers ni the Cape
1 he term, former government, is echoed and
re-echoed even in our popular afl'emblies.
This lather irritates than alarms us. For
too long a time the aritecratic minority
taking ad*a:itage of the silence of the ma
jority, ha . insulted us with impunity.
We, a number of patriotic citizens, come
in the name of the majority, to declare and
to swear that we will sooner perish than
return under the yoke of the old colonial
government—we will, further, declare that
person a perjured wretch and a traitor to
his country who /i 1a 11 dare to propose are
cal of this odious mode of government.
We have constitutionally demanded the
lieu- code of laws from the provincial af
lembly : and of the colonial -aflembly 've
rcqueit a formal and decisive answer to our
requisition, in its full extent—'May 22.)
Signed, Sec.
John Vming, Esq. of Delaware, has ififued a
Notification," liquifying that he declines
re-elected at tlie next election for meuibers of
Congress for that State—John Dickinfon, Esq.
has also notified that he declines fervinJ as Go
vernor, in cafe of appointment.
T Hi . vapouring challenges, thrown out
in the Gazette cf the United States, to all free
un-r.ired writers (or, as they are day cai-
Wd by Mr. Fenno, " the tuorjl of knaves.""
" calumniators cf the government,'" enemies oj the
tiublic tranquility," propagators cf calumny" and
' firrettersoj iniquity") to point out the par
titular members of the national legislature
concerned in (peculation,&c. and to prove
the facts, —remind ns of the impudence of a\
noted profit ute in London, who having a dis
pute with a young man, was by him re
proached with her profligacy, and called
by the plain name of her profeffion.—
" a Wk -j;- 1" said (he : " you dare to
call me alVh -ft * #I—l'll1 —I'll make you prove
it, orpay for it."---Accordingly (he sued
the young fellow for defamation : and al
though Jialf the town knew her character,
yet as nobody could prove her incontinency,
without owning himfelfan accomplice, the
defendant was call for want of evidence,
and obliged to pay heavy damage - . Thu I
it is when any men talks of speculators—-
"prove the faEl, Sir as if indeed the men
who hired out the pilot boats, and the bro
kers who ne j goc;ated the certificates, would
come forward to expose their employers
and themselves 1 Mr. Fenno well knows
they are not such fools; aid therefore it is,
that he vapours : for until some of tiie ac
complices give pontive evidence upon oath,
the character 0* each individual Speculator,
though ever so noterous, is fafe fromat
tack, and nm(t be equally reflected, and
deemed as immaculate, as--that of the prof
titnte. Jnue 23.
A judicious evasion of arguments, in
tend of aufwering them, has always been
a nice point oi art among twiftical characters
A man might as soon catch such at fire-ea -
ingas at fair reasoning. At the bar, tlli
art has been advanced to such a height that
a man of common underitanding will fre
quently take an evasion for a solid answer.
"i'liere are some coarse diljmtants, however,
(not at the bar only) who alfume another
method of answering an argument, i. e. by
fulflituting amongst their idle ravings such
genteel words as (landerer, knave, calumniator,
and now and then, upon occaiion, villain,
&c. &c. This (tale trick may have its ef
fect with the lowe't clafsof no-thinkers, but
is intently seen through and defpife'd he
men of liberality.
On the gradual Melioration of Governments.
[From Mr. Paine's Rights of Man.']
THE befl conflitution that could now be
devlfcd, confident with the condition of the
present moment, may be far (hort of that
excellence which a few year's may afford.
There is a morning of reason riling upon
man on the fubjeet of government, that has
not appeared before. As the barbarilm of
the old governments expires, the
mor.il condition of nation with respect to
each other will be changed. ? <lati will not
be brought bp with a lavage idea of con'-
dsring his species as his enemy, bec-.ufe t; e
••ccident of birth gave the individuals exifi
-lice m countries difliugnUhed by differ"' t
names; and as conititutions have alwa;s
Pome relation to external as well as to d!>-
me'tjc circumilances, the means of benefit
ing fcv every change, foreign or dotnellic,
fiiouLd be a part of every constitution.
We already fee an alteration in the na
tional dlfpofitio.i of England and France
towardi each o.her, which, when we look
back to only a few years, is iri elf a revolu
tion. Wiio could have forefeet], or who
would have believed, that a French jlat'pn
al Assembly would ever have been a popu
lar toali in England, or that a friendly a lli
ance of the two nations Should be come rhi
vifli of either- It shews, that ma l, were
he not corrupted by governments,' is natu
rally the friend o. man, arid that human na
ture is not of itfeif vicious. That spirit of
jealousy and ieroc' tv, which the govern
ments of the two countries inspired, and
which they rendered fubfervient'to the purr
pose of taxation, is now yielding to the dic
tates of reafbn, i rile re ft and humanity. The
trade of courts is beginning to be under
iiood, and the affe&ai'ioii of myliery, with
all the artificial sorcery by which thcy'im
pofed t!]>on mankind, is on the decline- ,„It
has received its death-wouhd ; ana though
it may linger, it will expire.
Government ought to be as much open
to improvement as any thing which epp'er
tains to man, infiead of which it has been
monopolized si cm age to age, by ;he mo'l
ignorant and vicious of tiie human race.
Need we any other proof of their w retched
management, than the excess of debts and
taxe with which every nation groans, and
the quarrels into which they have precipi
tated the world ?
Just emerging from ftich a barbarous con
dition, it is too soon to determine to what
extent of improvement government may
yet be carried. For what we can forefee,
all F.urope, may form but one great repub
lic, and man be free of the whole.
Remarkable Curirfity.
THE mimickry, or imitative sports of
Nature, have iong been matter of admira
tion to naturalists and philosophers. From
what follows it would seem, that the idea
as the human figure had originated in the
vegetable part of the creation, and had af
terwards been improved into the animal,
from the less perfeel to the more perfeSt,
iccordmg to the process observable in the
generality of the works of nature. —In that
aart of America on and about the north
iveftern branche of the river Miffotu l. a
:ountry inhabited b'y nation of Indians call
ed the Pawnees and Pawnawnges, isfemnd
liurprifing fpec.ie- of plant, denominated
Mandrake, whichg-ows to about three feet
n height, bearing, ingeneral, aftrikingre
emblance to the human figure. The feet
ire fixed in the ground by way of root, mid
the juices serving fpr nourishment are fil
trated through the toes, and thence a cend
nto the veins of tiie plant, firll iti a hori
sontal and then in a perper.J.cu' r-direc
tion. i hefe-plants are of both feite -, and
iccording to a wild tradition of the Indi
tns, sprung up in this part of the country
n termer ages, in consequence of a number
jf bloody battles, in wiiicli so many persons
ivereflain, and so much blood (pilled, attto
mpregnate the ground with the feeds of
he human form —Plants of the fa; ~ fpe
:ies are fi.,d to have been found in theeafr
?rn parts of Africa, but far it in fiz.e and
ess perfect in many refpecls than those of
\merlca.
PRICE of STOCKS.
6 Percents . . 21/4 to 21/--
3 Per cents . I*2/4 12/6
Deferred . . jifio lxf
Indents . . . • 'if
Final Sett. . . 20/
1-2 SiiareiiankU.S. 62 to 64 per cent adv.
Whole Shares ditto 25 ' do. do.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE
EXCISE LAW.
Mr. FitKN'EAU,
A WRI TER in your lafl paper aDpears anx
ious that the people fhouldbe informed that
;he badge of slavery placed over the dopr of the
Excijeman in Germantovvn, wasfecretlv dellioved
liuririg fit" night—What proof does he bring for
ward in funport of his aflertion ? Why that t!ie
officer was duly and immediately examined by
the government upon the fubjetl, with a vfew
to prosecute ihe person or persons who had
committed the offence, but that 110 dilcovery
could he made." Is it poflible that any man
Ihould be so ignorant of the chsrafln of the citi
zens ot the United States to suppose that any
freeman would be an informer on Inch an occa
sion ,? If PEOPLE vjifh to prefcrve that lihtrty
for which they contended with Great BrUain, they
willJlrtnumfly oppcfc every introduction of the
corrupt principles tf the government of that coun
try, Ihe voice of the citizens of the United
States refpeain<r the Excifc law, having been
treated with negle£l by ( ongrefs, people have
no other remedy but to flight every man who
may be so 1011, to a sense of the duty he owe ;
to hispoQerity and to his countiy, as to assist is
carrying the law into execution.
June i-i-A V T II E TIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF Tilt
UNITED STATES.
At tlie firfl Sefiion,begun and held at the city oC
Philadelphia, in the State of I'ennfylvania,
on Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thousand seven hundred ninety-one.
An ACT making alterationi in tic 'i r injury ana
War Department.
TJ E i' er.cEl.d by the Senate and Jloufe of Re-
JD ! re J c f tJj£ Vruted States cf America
in Congrcn ojjenbled. That there he an Accountant
itV department of war, who /hall be chardjH
with the fettlemcn? of all accounts relative to rhej
pay of rh-e army, Ihe fubftftencc of officers, boun
ti r) /'jidiers, the expenles of the recruiting fcr
v*«ce, the incidental and contingent expenses of the
d-rr:ment; and who /hall report frern time, to
tim", ail such feti'ements. as Avail have been made
by h»m, for the inflection and revision of tne ac
counting officers of the tieafury ; and th? said ac»
countant /hall also be charged with 11- fetiicmeni
of ail claims for personal fervic* authorized by the
act of rhis Congref; of the twenty-k-venth of
March last, and of all military claims lodged in
tha late office of the pay mailer genneral and com
rn'f.ioner of army accounts, wh c.i arc f-.'t foredo
fed by the acts of limitation of the late CongrelV,
and he fioll report from time to time, all such
frrtleir.ents a- hav- been made by him, for the
Lifpedtion and revision of the comptroller of the
tieafury. The compensation of the faiJ account
ant fhail be a yearly filary of one 'thousand two
hundred dollars.
And be it furtherena&ed, Tiiai the Treasurer
of the United States /hall difbirfe rII such monie«
;»? /hall have been previously ordered for the ule of
the department of* war by warrants from the trea
sury j which difourfements /hall be rr.aJe pur/uant
ro warrants from the Secretary at War, counter
signed by the accountant.
And be it further er.aftcd, That there be a Pay
nafter to re fide near the: head quarters of the
troops of the United States. That it fnall be the
<?»ty.of the said faymafrer, ro rcceive from ths
treasurer all the monies which shall be entruflfd ta
liim lor tjpe purpose of payiqg the pay, the arreari
cf pay, subsistence or forage, due to the traopa of
the Unite} States. That he fnall receive the pay
p.bftratts of the paymasters of the several r-fi
rn«*nts or corps, and compare 'lie fame with the!
returns or muster rolls which /hall accompany the
said pay ibftra&s. That he /hall certify accurate
ly to the commanding officer, the lumt due to the
refpedtive corps, which fnall have been examined
V 3 aforefaid, who /hall thereon ifiue his warranl
on the said deputy paymaster, for the payment at
cordinglv. That copies of all reports to the com
manding officer, and the warrants thereon, /ball i?c
dulv tranfmicted to the office, of the accounttnl
cftV.e war department, in order to be there cxa
minrd and finally ailjufted at the treasury. Thai
the said paymaster fnall give bond in the sum o]
twenty thousand dollars, wilh two Sufficient fure
tieF, for the faithful discharge of hi* duty, and h<
{hull take an oath faithfully to execute the duties
of his office. That the compensation to the fail
paymaster ihall be sixty dollar* monthly, With tin
fame rations and forage as a major.
Ar.dbe it further cnaEled, That no affignmen
of pay made after the firft day of June ne*t, by a
non-commissioned officer or private, /hall be valid,
And he it further enaftcd, That all purchase?
and contracts for supplying the army with provi
sions, cloathing, supplies in the quarter-maflen
department, military /lores, Indian goods, «nd al!
other supplies or articles for the use of the depart
ment of war, be made by or under the aireftion
of the trealury department.
And be it further er.atlcdy That the Srcrcfarj
of the Trealury ihall diredt the fuparintendance o;
the collection of the dutie* on impof «nd tonnag<
as tfe /hall judge best. That the present office 01
Assistant to the Secretary of the Treefurt, be abo
lished, and that instead thereof there be an officei
in the department of the Treasury, to be denomi
nated Corr.miliioner of ths Revenue, who Ihall b«
charged with superintending, undar the
of the head of the f'«e collection o|
the other revenues of the United States and fhal!
cxecute such other services, being conform.:l> t;
the constitution of the department, as /hail be di
rected by the Secretary of the Treasury. •Thai
the compensation of the said commiffioncr/h«!l b«
a salary of one thousand nine hundred dollar* pel
annum.
And be it further enaflcd, That in every cafe
ps an accouat or claim not finally adjusted, upon
which the ptefent Comptroller of the Treasury,
as Auditor, may have decided, it lhall be the du
ty of the Commifiioner of the Revenue, and c;
tl>e Auditor of the Treasury, finally ro ?djuft th<
fame, and in cafe of disagreement between th<
f 4 id Commifiioner and Auditor, the decilic# ol
the Attorney General shall be final.
And he it further ena£led y That in cafe of t'n<
death, absence from the feat of government 01
sickness of the Secretary of State, Secretary of th<
Treasury or of the Secretary of the War depart
ment, or of any officer of either of the said de
partments whose appointment is not in the head
thereof, whereby they cannot perform the dut:e<
of their said refpe&ive offices, it (liall be lawful
for the Prefidcnt of the United States, in cafe h«
shall think It nece/Vary, to authorize any perfor
or persons at his difcrction to perform the duties
of the said refpe&ive offices until a fucceflorbe
appointed, or until such absence or inability b)
sickness /hall cease.
And be it further cnaflcd, That the forms oJ
.keeping and rendering all public accounts what
soever, lhall be prcfcribed by the department oi
the Trealury,
And be it further enabled, That in addition to
the compensations allowed to the Comptroller,
J! uditor, Treasurer, and Register of the Treasury,
by the " a£t for establishing the salaries of the ex
ecutive officers of government, their affifiants and
clerks," and to the Attorney General by the
(t act for allowing certain compensations to the
Judges of the fupremc and other courts, and to
the Attorney General of the United States," the
said oiicefs respeCtively fnall be allowed the ful
lowing yearly v:z» the Comptroller four
hundred dollar. : the Auditor four hundred dol
lars j the Trcafurcr four hundred dollars ; the
Rfgifter five hundred dollars ; the Attorney Gen
eral four hundred dollars.
And be it further ena&ed, That the Secretary
t>f the Tieaiury be authorized to have two princi
pal clereach of whom to have a salary of eight
hundred du.lars per annum ; and that th? salary
sf the chief clerk of the department of war, be at
th * rat? of eight hundred dollars yer year.
And be it fu ttber enaEicdy That the reftriGi#
on t! cles Ks of the department of the t're|fury so
far 03 refpefts the carrying on of any trade or bu
iir.e s, ctii r than in the funds, or ''ebts cf the
United Stare?, or of any state, or any kind of pub
ic pioperty, be abolished, and that such reftridtioH
so far as refpe 's the funds or debts of the Unit
ed States, or of any ft ate, or any public property
r>f either, fce extended to the commifiioner of the
revenue, to the leveral commiffloners of loans,
and to all persons employed in their refpe&ite of
fices, and to all officers of the United States con
cerned in the collection or disbursement of the re
venues thereof, under the penalties prescribed in
the eighth fed ion of the intitled 4< An
to jeftablifli the treasury department" and tlie pro
vifionft relative to the.officers in the treasury de
partment, contained in the" Ast to fftablilh the
post office and post roads," shall be and hereby
:re extended anii applied to. the commifiioner of
:he revenue.
Approved by the Prejident, May 8, 1792s
ACT concern, r.j the do,in cf *Jibn Brown
Cutting again ft the Umiitd States.
T)E it cnatieh by the Sen*~ anil House of Reprc
& fentativez cf tht United Stttet cf Ameru a in
Zongrefs a [fumbled, That in confide ation of cer
din expenditures on behalf of the United StateSj
■nade by John Crown Cutting in the year one
houfand leten hundred arpd ninety, there be ad
ranccd and paid to the said John Brown Cutting,
he sum of two thoufend dollars, out of any pub
ic money not othervrife appropriated.
And be it further enabled y That thefecretary o i
(late be authorized to enquire into the entire
:isim.of tht said John Brown Cutting, againfl
lie United States, and upon receipt of tlie proofs
».nd exhibits in support thereof, ta afcertair. whal
Turn shall thereupon appear to be due to or from
Km, i,n Occount *ith the United States, includ
jig the advance hereby directed, and to report th{
<ame to the next session of Congress.
Approved by the Prejident, May 8, J792.
JUST IMPORTED,
From London, Dublin, and Scotland,
A larg". and general ajforlmcnt of
BOOKS,
For falc by ROBERT CAMPBELL, No. 54,
South Sccond-Street.
VINER'S general abridgement of law anc
eciuity, alphabetically digested under pro
per titles with notes and references to the whole :
(.volumes art receited. Price to fubferibers 4
dollars per vol. neatly bound.
*4* This work will be compriftd in 24 royal
j&avo vols. S or more of which frill be publifhec
Wvery year until completed.
Lord Raymond, Douglafa, Vefey, Cowper,
Strange, Craoke, Amble;, Salkeld, Pecre Wil
liams, Durnford and East, Dallas, Comyns, Eur
rows, Kelyng'a and Aitltia't Reports in octavo—
Margrave and Butler's Coka upon Littleton
London and Dublin edition#.—Comyn's digest 0
the laws, 5 volb.Do&or and Student, or dialogue;
betwean a Do&or of Divinity and a Student in
Ihe laws of England F.unomua or dialogue!
concerning the lawt and conflitutiona of England,
podcra crown law Le-ach'a crown law—Gil
|art'« pradtice in common pleas Hinds anc
Harritons practice in cnanccry—New law gram
mar— Mallory's entries, «, vols.—NeWm-n'i
lonveyancing, 6 vols. —Williams's do. 2 do.—
on bail — Hatfels precedents in the
houle of commons—Powel on contra^ —Do.
on powers—Reetet's hiflory of the English law-
New fyitem of pleading---Sheppard's touch
i^one—Kyd on Awards—Richardson's common
Ilea#-—Travels of Anacharfis the younger, ir
Greece, during the middle of the /.th century be
fore the chrifrian era, 7 vols, with elegant maps.
Cowper's translation of Homer, 2 vols. — Gilles'i
niflory of Greece, 3 fo!s. — Gibbon's Roman hif
lory, 12 vcls. do. do. complete in 6 vols.---
Ruflels hiflory of modern Europe, 5 vols.
H'umes's hiflory of England, 3 vol:.—Rollins'!
ancient hiflory 8 vols. 8 vo. fame book jo vol!
12 mo Bofwcll's life of Dr. Samuel Johnson,
with an elegant head—King of Prufiia's works
13 vols.--Bruces travels, 6 vols.--Elegant extracts
prose, vcrfe, and epistles—Domestic divinity b)
Knox—Mofheim's ecclefiafiical hiflory, 6 vols.—
Soame Jenyn's works, 2 vols. Tower's life ol
Frederick the 3d. late King of Prussia, 2 vols.---
Shakefpenre's dramatic works complete in ont
vol. Spallanzani's diflertations, relative tc
the natural hiflory of animalx and vegetables, 1
vols. The European and literary magazines
for theiaft6 months of 1791— —»The universal
an 4 gentleman's do. for do. Lately publiflieq
fmelliea philosophy cf natural hiflory, price 2
dollar?, neatly bound.
N.B. Country ilorekeepers may be supplied
at the above place with family, common, and
pockct Bibles, Testaments, Spelling-books,
Watts's Psalms, Hymns, Playing Cards v Quills,
Wafers,Sealing-VVax, Writing-Paper, Blank-
Books, &c. &c. on the lowest terras. xaw
CHESTER TOWN BALTIMORE
STAGES.
Eaflern-Shore Stage, by way of Chef
tertown to Baltimore, starts regularly from
J .i.ies Thompson's, Iniian Queen, Fourth-street,
Philadelphia, every Monday, Wednesday
Friday, mornings, precisely at 7 o'clock, and
on the fame mornings at 4 o'clock, from Mr.
JBant's in Baltimore. The cultivation of the
country, and goodm>is of the roads, togetheil
with the attention that /half be paid by the pro
prietors, will, it is hoped, be a fufficient induce
ment lor a preference being given to this route.
JAMES THOMPSON,
ROBERT HODGSON,"
N. B. Light Waggons for hire by Jame
jThompfon, at the Indian Queen#. -
P/ ices Current al Philadelphia.
[Dollars equal to 100 cents. x
A SHES Tot per ton co Dols. to 100
Aflies Pearl j37 — — 140.
oacuii flitches per lb. 7 pents.
Bacon (houlders — 6 do.
Bees wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27.
Brandy, Coniac, pergl. 1 doi. 20 c t to 1 d. 33 c.
Brandy, common, 1 dol. 26 c.
Butter, in kegs, per !b. 9 c. to io.
Coals, per bushel, 20 c. co 22
Coffee, per Id. 20 c.
Cotton, per ib. 26 c. to 33
r lax, per lb. 11 to 12 c.
Flour, fuperrine, per barrel, 4 d. 67 c. 4d. *0 c.
Common, 4 dols. 40 c. -
Burr middlings, best, perbrl. 3 oois. 04c.
Meal Indian 2 dols. 52 c.
R)<*2 dols. 67. c.
Ship ftufy, per cwt, 1 do], id. 33c.
Girt, Holland, per cafe, 4 dol». 67 c.
Ginieng per lb. 20 c. to 24
Grain, barley, per bu/hel, 90 c.
best ihelled, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per bushel, 40 c.
Indian corn, 40 c. Oat 3 26 c. pr. bufn.
Rye 54, Wheat 90 to 93 c.
Ilams, per Jb. J c. t? 9
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67 c.
American, p"r lb. 4 c. to 5
Hide#, raw, per lb. 9 c. to if
Ipdljo, Carolina, p»r lb. 40 c. to 1 dol.
Iron, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
C«ftings. per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nail-rods per ton 96 dols.
Pig, per ton, 24 dols. to 24 dols. C 7 c.
Sheet, per ton, 173 doto 33 c.
Lard, hogs, per lb. 9 c. to 10
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
In pigs, — — 5 dols. 33 c. to 5 dols. 67 c.
Red, 6 dols. 40 c. to t> dols. 67 c.
White, 10 dols. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Myrtle wax per lb. i2c.
MoUsses, per gal. 44 c. to 50
Nutmegs, per lb. 7 so S dollars
Oil, Linseed, per gallon, 65 to 67 c,
Pepper, per lb. 50 c.
Pimento, 16 c.
Porter, London, per dozen, 1 dol. Co Ct
American, do. j d. 4 c. ro 1 d. 60 c.
Pitch, per barrel, 1 dol. 73 c. to 2 dols.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 11 dols to 11 d C7c.
Lower County, do. 30 dols.
Carolina, do. 9 dols.
Rice, per 100 lb. 2 do-ls. 67 c.
Rosin, per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 dols. 67 c.
Rum, Antigua, per gai'on, 1 dol. 11 c.
Barbadoes, do. do. S7 c.
New-England, See. 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. j3 c. to id. 22 c.
Windward Ifiand, 93c. to id.
Salt, (Allum) per bushel, 24 to 27 c.
Cadiz, 23 to 24 c.
Lisbon, 25 to 27 c.
Liverpool, ■ ■ 1 29 c.
Skins, Deer, in hair, per lb. 20 to 30 c.
Red, ditto, ■ 26 to 33 c%
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
Sugar, Kavanna, white, per lb. 17 to iS c.
Brown, per lb. 35 c.
Muscovado, per cwt. 140. to 16 d. 67 c.
Lump, per lb. 24 c.
Loaf, finglc refined, 26 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 c.
| Tallow, refined, per lb. 9 c.
Tar, Nevr-Jerfey, 24 gal. to the brl. 1 dol.
Carolina, 32 gal. 1 dol. 33 c. to 1 dol. 67 c.
Tea, Hvfon, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
H)fon Ikin, 53 c. to 67
Soufhong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohes., 30 c. to 33
Tobacco, befr. per cwt. 3 dols. 60
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 2 dols. 67 c. to 3 dols.
Old, 4 dolt. 67 c.
Rappahtfinock, # dols. 50 c. to 3 dol
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl. 33 c. to S d
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, 2 doli. 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dols. 23 c.
Carolina, new, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dols.
Carolina, old, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dol
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 doi. .67 c. to 2 dols.
Wine, Madeira, per pipe, ic6 dl. 67 c. to 200 dl.
Lisbon, 96-dols. to icc
Teneriffe, per gal. 51 c. to 60
Fayal, ■ —44c. 49
Port, per pipe, ic6 d s. 67c. to 120 d.
Sherry, per gal. 90 c. to id. 20c.
TO THE PUBLIC.
Sulfcriber" has it in contemplation soon h
decline bis present bufmefs —and having ot
band a confideralle quantity of Juperfne second anc
elafiic cloibsf together with a variety of other arti■
ties in his way, propcfei to fell them at the folkwin j
reduced prices- VIZ,
Befl Superfine navy hluz 345,
Ditto. ditto. Scarlet 365.
Common colours fuperfr.e 325.
Elafiic Jlripes 9s.
London buff and white caffimers 15/6.
Ditto, coloured do. 15 s.
York/hire do. do. I^/6.
Striped toitcnets 14*-
Rattinets 3s.
Striped Nankeens 3^4.
A variety of waiflcoatfhapes proportionally l*w,
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London b*flfiik hofe,from 22J6 to 245.
The above goods have been mostly imported from
one of the firji Mercantile htufes in London y and
are of an equal quality to any imported into Ameri
ca j they will be fold per piece or Jmaller quantity
as may befl suit thepurchajcrs ; by tb"publizs mvfl
humblefervant, "JOHN SHE?HERD»
No. 3 South Fourth-frreet.
Any person disposed to purchase the whole
of the above rtork, may also have on realonablc
terms his present dwelling house, together with
the (lore, a more eligible situation for bufmefs in
che tailor's line is not to be found in this city.
The advantage of this bufmefs being so well efta
bliflied by the proprietor will be very great, and
from well known fa£ts, needs no comment,
A lease of Cix years may be had of the ' oufe.
May 1; , 2 aw. ff*
110 WELL'S LARGE
MAP of PENNSYLVANIA.
THIS work is engraved in the mod elegant
llyle,and will be ready for delivery early
this summer. It is 63 inches long and 36 in
ches wide, and for the moll part very lull o
work (except foine small places of which mate
rials were not to be had) and was wholly com
piled from actual surveys, acquired at great ex
pence of money, and more than four years
labour, and from its manifeft public utility,
;he Legillaturc has been pleased to grant the
Droprietor the fumof three hundred pounds.
This map exhibits the County and Township
Divisions, and those of the Surveyors Diftri6ts
nthe New-Purchase, Donation and Deprecia
:ion Lands ; the waters, portages, and the Ca
lal, mountains and valleys, roads, towns, &c.
He thanks the Public for their very liberal
übfeription, and informs them that it is yetkept
>pen. He fells his SMALL MAPS, on can
,'afs, folded and cas'd for pocket carnage, at
io/*6. and plain at 8/4.
READING HOWELL
No. 88, North Fifth-Jlrect.
June 11. jaw. 6w.
Philadelphia and Shrewfoury
S T AGE,
By the route of Bordento wn.
fubferibers inform the public, that fr<
JL and after the third day of June next, (and
:o continue during the summer season) a baa: sets
from -the Croulced-Billet wharf, in Philadel
phia, on Sundays and Thurfday9 in the months
>t June and August : and on Sundays and vVcd
leldays in the months of July and September, and
to ttoidentown.
Thr next morning comfortable carriages run
:rom Hordentown and Edington, in Shiewfbury ;
:hen meet, and exchange paflengers at the half
.vay-houfe, known by the name of the Burnt Ta
vern, and return the fame day to lSsrdentown an J
Edinjton, aforementioned : And on the days fol
lowing the boat lets out from Bordentown to Phi
ladelphia.
The proprietors flatter thcmfelves this plan wiil
particularly accommodate those whfr do not wish
lo be troubled with their own horses an<» carriages;
urd will at the fame time afford them an agreea
ble variety, and make the joufney more eafv than
travelling the whole diftar.ee by land.
The Fa:e from Philadelphia to
EJington, for Paflengcrs, - £.0 j3 9
Goods per cwt. - 6
Way pafTengers and way goods, in proportion.
The public's mod obedient, humble servants
JOHN VAN EM BURGH,
DANIEL LOTT.
May law.tf.
PROPOSALS
For Printing by Subscription,
PUBLIC Ve PORTS
FROM T II F.
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
OF THE
Government of the United States
CONGRESS,
Commencing with, the prcfent Government, and end
ing with the close of the SeJJion of May 1792.
THIS work is intended to be printed in ont
volume o&avo, eftimatedto contain between five
and fix hundred pages, and will be delivered tc
fubferibfcrsin boards at One Dollar and a half.
A complete collection of the Reports into :
convenient and portable volume has been fug
gefled to the publishers by fcvcral Members o
Congress and other gentlemen, and they are now
determined to proceed on with the work, provi
ded a competent number of fubferibers appca>
to patronize the undertaking.
Subfcrintions are received by CHILDS anc
SWAIN F<, the publishers, No-209, Market
street, Philadelphia, and by the principal Book
fellers in the United States.
May 24.
THIS DAT ARE PUBLISHED)
[In Octavo—Price 2/9.
THE
LAWS of the United States,
Paflfed at the '
Firfl Seflion of the. Second Congress.
PUBLISHED BV AUTHORITY.
To which are added the Ratifications of th<
Amendments to the Conflitution, by the fevera
ratifying States; the Armistice between theUni
ted States and Great-Britain ; and the Treaty o
Peace and Fricndlhip with the Cherokccs, which
with those in the other oclavo volume complete
all the exifling treaties.
Philadelphia, printedby CHILDS & SWAINE
Printers oj the Laws oj the United States, am
fold by them, at their oJp.ce, No. *209, Market
Street ; also by the principal Booksellers in ti
city.
The Laws are fewea in blue paper, ant
arc intended to be bound up with those of tii<
next feflion, so as to make one volume, com
prifmg all the Laws pafled by* the Second Con
gress, when a complete Index will be added so.
both fe{lions.
The LAWS of the
Three Sedions of the First Congress,
With a complete Index, in one volume o6lavo,
mav he had as above.
Philadelphia, May 17th, 1792.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS AND SWAINE,
AT TH£l Ror F ICE, NO. 209, HIGH-STREET
NEAR FIFTH-S TR7. ZT ,
FH ILADELPHU: