Vol. I.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
liY THIS LAST ARRIVALS.
• MADRAS, March 8.
Grand Army.
WE are extremely sorry that our ut
moll endeavours have not yet enabled us
to lay befoie our readers the particulars of
the treaty of peace concluded with Tip
poo : however, whilst the mind is kept
in fufpence as to the general detail, enough
lias tranfpited totlemonftrate that no peace
ever reflected more splendor on the arms
of Great liritain, or securing more perma
nent advantages to her interests —A
peace that has so effectually embraced the.
different ideas of oppi.li e parties, that it
cannot fail of enfuriiig the higliell appro,
bation of all.
In the present ir.ftance we have greatly
triumphed.— the valor of our troops lias
been to more essential purposes,
and their gallant exertions have been
ci'owned with the molt brilliant success :
they have elevated ihe J nglifh name in
India to the utmoit height of glory, anddi
reCted t>y the wisdom, and emulating th«
ardor of their brave leader, have diftateci
a peace to the enemy, the beliegee
walls of his capital—A peace which in it;
consequences will be piodu&ive of a vail
inflrx of wealth to their country.
Hitherto, or at leall for a number ol
years pafl, miftakcii policy l.bd shut up
trade on the Malabar Coafl, but the parti
tion treaties restores it to freedom, and o
pens the richest views to-commerce, whicl:
in itfelf is (Ji more real benefit than the ae
quiiltion of an empire.
In our s lalt courier we anticipated the ar
rival of the hollages in camp —It was on
the 27th, instead of th 24th, ult. that the
important event took place— about twelve
o'clock the works of the fort of Serin
gapatam were crowded witty an innumera
ble multitude of people ; and the Sultan
was plainly d (covered amongst them,—
In a few minutes afterwards the young
princes made their app arance, they wert
condndted from the iljand to a large pavi
lion pitched for their reception, near Sib
bald's redoubt, about a mile from the
fort.
Here they were received by Sir John
Kenneway, who attended them, accompa
nied by an efco. t, to head-quarters
On entering the camp, they were faint
ed with nineteen guns ; and the part of 1 he
line they passed was under arms, &the offi
cers saluted.—Lord Cornwallis fainted
them in 1 is tent, which was guarded by
battalion of Sepoys ; and they were the 1
formally delivered over io his Lordlhip,
by Gullum Ally B?g,the Sultan's Vackeel,
as hollages for the due performance ol
the treaty.
The scene was grand and ftfffftjfig, and
impressed all present with those feelings
which are not ealily delineated.
It was a proud scene to the conqueror?
— It was the moll humiliating to the van
quilhed.
An awful silence for a moment prevail
ed, and every one Itemed ablorbed in tlic
tumult of ideas which the occafron natu
rally called forth.
At length Gullum Ally approach!:':
Lord Cornwallis and under much agitati
on, addressed l is Lordlhip in the following
emphatic words: "These children," said
he, pointing to the young princes* whom
he then presented, " were this morning
thefons ofSnltan my mailer—their situa
tion is changed, and they mull now look
tip to your lordlhip as their father," —and
the tender and affectionate manner in
which his lordlhip leceivcd them, seemed
to confirm the truth of the exprefiion. 1
The attendants of the young princes
appeared altonilhcd at what they saw, ai d
their countenances were highly expreflive
of the fatisfaftion they felt in the benevo
lence of his lordship.
By P. FRENEAU: PubliJhccL Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
WEDNESDA Y, September 5, 1792.
Before they took their leave, his lord
ship presented a gold watch to each of
them, as a maik of his regard.
The next morning his Lordlhip made
them a visit at their tents, which arc
pitched near to the left of Tippoo's re
doubts.
His lordship alighted at the end of th<
avenue, and walked up to the tent,fa!utec
as lie paired by the Prince's guards.
They met his lordship at the entrance
and by their refpedtful behaviour, fheivec
that they held in plealing remembrance
the kind attention his lordlhip had fhtwi
to them.
At the extremity of the tent, arfd some
what elevated, a number of chairs were
placed ; here bis lordlhip seated hitnfeli
with the elJefl: prince on his right handj
and the younger on the left.
Sir John Ivenneway fat on one lide of
the Princes and Mr Cherry oa the othe>,
as his lordfliip's interpreters. The Vac
keels of Tippoo of whom one was the per
lon sent some time ago on an embafTy to
Conlt ntinople, and those of the Nizam
and Marrattas arranged themselves in the
fame order ; so that the whole formed z
lem.circle : after a converfauon of about
an hour, in whi.h t'ie Conllantiii' pie Am
b:iffador bore a considerable share his lord
lhip embraced the princes and gave to the
eldell a fufee mounted, and to the
youiif;elt, an elegant caie of pistols and in
return each of them presented his lordship
with a sword beetle an i Ottar were then
brought in, and his lordship immediately
afterwards withdrew, leading a prince i;i
each hand, to the extremity of >he rich
carpet which was spread on the ground
and embraced them with the utmolt cor
• laltty. They remained on the spot some
:ime, paying their comp iments to tht
gentlemen of his lordfliip's suite, who fa
uted them.
They are very fine boys ; the eldefl i%
ibout eleven years of age, and appears to
Je very quick, fhre.wd, and penetrating :
he aildreffed he lordflirp in a very perti
nent fpcech, with a great deal of proprie
ty and without any kind of confufion or
smbarraiTmexit, and in the fame manner,
an being deiired by Gnllum Ally, lie re
peated some pafhtges from the Koran.
M he young-ell is remarkably handsome :
his featutes are very regular and exprel
live, and his countenance is mild and
jpen, he is about feve*i years of age—
1 hey are both very graceful, perfe&ly
:orreft i;i their manners, ai, 1 appear ex
tremejy well bred.
The cavalry uirder Colonel Floyd have
marched to a lituation about fcui teen miles
From Seringapatam, on the road leading tc
Outra Droug. It is said that the Bom
bay army will macch i.i a few days to
wards the Ghauts, and it is expected that
the grand army wir! not remain mud:
longer at Seringapa'am, asTippoo has fs.nl
urciers to hi* different Killedais, in con
formity to the terms of the treaty, to de
li vei up the forts in their pofTcfiion to tin
iroi>ps of the allies.
'lire, importance of the poll which gen
cral Meadows carried on the night of tht
s;h and 7th ultimo, app' ar from a variety
:)l circumstances. Two thousand infantry
and fifteen hundred cavalry, under the
rommand of Sain A meed, an officer next
in rank to Commor O'din Khan, were af
figncd for its defence.
A Glacis, two ditches, with seven guru
within, and three without, formed tht
llrength of the Dui /aw redoubt, which
was reinforced the evening of the alfault
with h-illy's corps.
When Ti])poo committed this strong
hold to a cholen body of men, hi;, char/e
to them seemed to imptels 011 their minds
the idea, that the event of the war and bit
own fate mull depend upon their powers.
The disposition was ably made on his
part, nor did they, whom he had fele&ed
for this important service, betiay their
'.iuft or ful in the execution of their duty.
Ourgal'ant general made. the firlt onset
wiih a vehemence and rapidity, which
were irrefutable. The outworks and entry
were at once carried, and the commander
.'.aid Aumeed fell on the spot, proving by
his exertions his fidelity to his maffer.
The a11..,1it was carried forward with e
qu::l spirit and resolution to the center ol
tlie works which was full of the enemy't
btl* .oops, who tinned one of their guns
upon tne Gorge, and with much execu
tin:) fir d grape and truilket shot upon the
aflfa mte, t!:o' thrice repulsed by superior
numbers, and a heavy fire from the imiy
Gorge > yet none of our men ever quilled
thj iraverfe of the Gorge, or repafled the
little gateway by which they entered.
At a critical period, Major Dirom
threw himfelf into the foremolt ranks ;
encouraged and rallied the men ; and a
lorig.with Captain Wight led tnein on a
»tw to the charge. When the Major ad
vanced oppolite to the Gorge, Captain
Gage on the right, and Cap ain Wight on
the left, took poflefiion, each of them of a
i.anqtietie, whence they fired into tlie le
douh't, v\i;h gira. effect.
M :for Dirom was knocked down, lieut,
R.ol'e'i tfoi) of his maj-ffy'3 76th regiment,
ji) t.!, right hand killeu; Kent. R. Camp
bcl of the 36th, on his left feverelv
wounded, and many of the brave soldiers
fell (Mi every fide.
Happily Dirom soon recovered himfelf,
aid Wight, who was ready to have taken
his place, relumed his poll on the ban
queue, whi.il the Major once more fuc
jeeded in rallying the men, and' iio sooner
returned to the aflault, than the enemy af
faile 1 on every hand, broke gave way, and
molt u.* tliem leaping over the embrafu'res
into the ditch, left us in pofTeffion of this
important redoubt.
Tippoo has in part fulfilled the terms of
the recent treaty of peuc., not only in the
delivery of his two sons as hostages, but
jlfo in a partial payment, of the fu.n Itipu
lated in the treaty to be paid by him.
On the second i nit ant, one Crore and
thirty Tacks of Rupee) were ferit out of
the garrif.n to h-ad-qi-arters, which his
!oidfinp directed Hoare, paymaster of the
army, to take charge of.
Ou centintln continue at our polls, a
bout five hundred yards from the wall of
Seringapatam, and not more than five yards
from his, who are gene ally mounted at the
time our's are, and with great regularity.
_ AU LA CHAPF.LLE, June r 4 .
The friends of the French revolution in
this country have some hope that a change
I'.ivorable to its interests will take place in
the court of Berlin. This hope is founded
on t wo incidents —the firlt, the march of the
Ruffian troops into Poland ) the other, the
iaiincerity of the Prussian court, which at
firft appeared more earnest in the quarrel
of Austria tiian at present.
J he greatell part of the Prussian army i ,
however, at this time in motion, The Duke
of ljrunfvvick, who is. commander .n chief,
will repair to Coblentz, where every tlitllg
is prepared for his reception, at the lateit
011 the 2d ot July. The combined armies,
it io expected, will be ready to act by the
end of tliat mouth.
t ,
National Legijlalivc AJfemlly,- June 16.
M. Paftorct madp a report, in the name
of tlie' committee of public imiructio:>, o 1
the plan 01 Mr. Palioy, for railing .1 na
tional monument on the ruins of the Balhle,
and tlie Allenibly decreed,
'• Tll.lt there fhonld be railed 011 tjie lite
of the Bali lie, a I'quare, to be named, 7"he
Square of Liberty—there fliall be raiftd a
cotunfn fuppgrting a llatue of liberty— the
firlt ltone to be,laid 011 the 14th Julv next,
by a deputation from the > atioujl Al.eU)-
biy.
The plans printed by Palioy' are- re
ferred to the executive power, which (hail
appoint the artilK of the capital and tlie
departments to assist in the execution of the
present decree.
'■ The National Afiembly wiflnnr* to gh e
M. Pallov a teftiniony of gratitude, grant
Numb. 89.
him a portion of land on the fide of the
liaftile."-
June *7. The Aflembly, after reading
fdveral petitions, decreed, that all citizen "
the public fundioiiar'res, perlons of to yea, i
of age; md.infirih excepted, (Full be bound
to do duty personally iix-tije.National Guard.
The military .committee was appointed tu
draw out a proper plan for carrying tiria
decree into exccutib/5." ' '
LONDON, Ju:u 19 —23,
The gazette contains a proclamation from
Ins Majelty, permitting, agreeable to the
powers, a.id under the rcliriciious ot ihe
.evetal acts, the importation of sugar and
coilee into the ports of Exuma, St. George
and Pembroke, in the Bahamas, ° '
rhe Prussian cabinet has formally enga
ged to dstcjid til" present conditution of
.' j olland, to guard it againlt the innovating
Ipirit ot tne > rench, and to maintain the
dignity oi the Stadiholder, and all the pre
rogatives annexed toJiis flatioH.
The fleet fitting out by Ruftia', to ast a
gainlt the French, consists of twelve fliips of
the line, and a proportion of frigates.
The Editor of Bavaria has, in confe
tti ence of a long conference with the Im
perial minister, given up the plan of neu
trality, and joined the league of Austria,
i'i ulfia and Said in a, against France ; and it
.s intended to gain'time till fufficient Auf
rian and Pruhian troops'arrive to protest
he ellates of th? Palatine; those efta:es
ire fortifying toward* the Rhine ; the
ICune lortrefs at Manheim i? furnifiiing'
ivitli pieces of cannon, anjl every est r
:ion is tiling,to put the place in a formidable
late oi defence.
If iie Diet of Poland have, adjourned, af~
:er having confided the concilia of the war
without 1 elerve to the king, whose virtues
Hid talents certainly render him worthy of
die trud. Ihe belt accounts a r e rcctived
it the Po'ifh army : They advance to meet
:.ie array 111 the h;gheft spirits and v illi the
atmoft regularity, and are every where re--
-eived by tlie inhabitants as brothers, and'
ne even furnifhtd with proviiions and fo
rage without aify expen.ee-
We are iavored \v ith the following ex—
rait of a letter from Lifion, chted Ma- 2 1
' Her raajefty of Portugal continu s verv
II; there is a decree of obit nacy in her
■viiicn, Dr.. V.' ilhs lays, he never met with
n any fubjeil he ever had under h's care ;
le lias had little or no and the peo-
Ae 111 general begin to despair."
» . f .■
A report has been very current this mor
ning, that a meeting took place l ift niche
between lore," Lauderdale and general Ai
lold, in which the latter wa. killed; but
we iiave not yet been able to learn to w4iac
degree of credit this ruifcour is entitled.
A ! etter from Strafburg, by this day's
mail, fl.ates that Francis, king of Hungan
died of a hemorrhage, by which he hail
beeJi fouie time attacked: This however,
« ants confirmation.
i'he.ciiy of Antwerp {till peril ft j in its op
polition to the government of the house of
Austria.
The martial law lately prochiinjed, and,
rigorouily e.nformd tilery, has ten did not a
little to increase the number of the difaf
fe»'tcd. j
On the 2-tth l:lt. feutence was parted on
the remainder of the conl'pirators concern
ed in the all affiliation of the late king of
Sweden. Counts Horn and Ribbing to lose
their right hand; ur.d heads, to be deprived ■
of their honors, degraded from the rank of
ilobjes, and the.npi aperty to be conSfcaied.
iVia or Karti'mandorlf to be broke, and im
prisoned for one year. The Counsellor of
the Chancery, flngltrom. to be deprived of
his uobdity and poir, and to fuller perpetual
mprilbnnient; Ir.s brother to lol'e hi- place
of Secretary. The Secretary L.illefirable
to be fed or- v.eel: on bread and water.
Major-general Pichlin to be confined in tlie
ioru el i ot .\lprili aand, and his behaviour to.
be reported to the king e\ cry lix months by
the,commandant of the fortreis* The ft
uatoc Aijigreen, Enhorniug, the Notary,
and the baililf, iVlordcl, have beet: parch ~ed.
All those condemned have claii);. d the i'ef
pite of thirty days allowed them by law, to
put in an arreit of judgment, 01 petition
"tileir j'o\ e: vigil for pardon.
.. 1 <»e t nij'ieis oi iiullia lias a great re r ai d
ior the weliare ■ f the i oles ; and Leea: ,*e
they cannot fuaiiow iiappinefs fa.t ei.otnh,
ihe is determined to pul'n it into their Co..'
machs with the bayonet ! What a .jed ~1
diiiat«-£lUd crtaiute lit; mull Le !-"At a Meeting of sundry Inhabitants of
the Wellern Counties of Pennf Ivani
held at Pi tfburgh, on the 21ft day of
Augull, 1792.
Present, John Canon, William Wallace,
Sh'.fbazer Bentley, Bazel Bowel, Ben
jamin Parkefon Jo in Huev, John B.i
do'.let. Jolin Hamilton, John M'Cle
land, Ncal Gillefpie, Davd Bradford,
Thomas Gaddis, 13avid Phillips,
1 ert Gallatin, Matt sew Jamifon, James
Robinson. Jamts Stewart, John Smile,
Ro.jcrt M'Clure, Peter Lifls, Alexan
der Long, Samuel Wi son, and Ed
ward Cook.
Colonel John Canon, was nlaced in the
Ch lir, and Aib:rt GjHalin appointed
Clerk.
The Excif* I**i w of being
taken under contideration an 1 freely debat
ed, a committee of five members was ap
poin ed to prepare a draught of Resoluti
ons, expreflhig the sense of the meeting 0:1
the fubjedl of laid Law.
Adjourned to 10 o'clock to morrow.
23d of Augull 1792.
The members of the meeting having
met according to adj urnment, the com
inittee appointed yetferriay made report
which being rea l twice and debated b\
paragraphs, was unainmoudy adopted a*
fol'.oweth, to wit.
Strongly imprefTed with a f nfe of tlu
fa'al coofequences that inuft attend an Ex
cise, convinced that a t x upon liquors
which are the common drink of a natio,
operates in proportion to the number am
not to the wealth of the people, and o:
course is unjull in itfelf, and opprefTive up
on the poor ; taught by the experience ol
other countries that internal taxes upoi
consumption, from their nature, never ca;
efFettually be carried into operation, with
out veiling the officeis appointed to col
leel them with powers moll dangerous tc
the civil . ights of freemen, and mull in
the end delboy the liberties of e*ery coun
try in which they are introduced ; feeling
that the late excise law of Congress, froir
the prcfent ci.rcumdances of our ag' icul
ture, our want of markets, and the fearcity
of acircu ating-medium, will bring >mme
diate diltiefs and ruio on the Weller:
Co-intry. We think it our duty to per
liil in our remondrances to Congrefj, ant
in eveiy othei legal meafurethat may ob
llrudt tlie operation of the law, uutil w<
are able to obtain ils total repeal.
Therefore, Rcfolvcd, that Dav;.
Bradford, James Marfhel, Albert Gallat n
Peter Lisle, and D ivid Philips, be appoint
ed for the purpose oi drawing a remon
ftrance to Congress Hating our -objeition:
against the law that imposes a duty upoi
spirituous liquors diililled within the Uni
ted States, and praying fjr a repeal o
the fame, and tha;. the Chairman of thi
meeting be <)irented to sign the fame i.
the name of the meeting, and to take pro
per measures to have it prelcnted to Con
grefs at their next ftiiions.
Resolved, That in order that our rrtea
fares' may be earned on with regularity anc
dispatch, that William Wallace, John Ha
milton, Shefbazer Bentley, 1 aac Weaver
Be.ijamin Parkinfon, David Redick. Vho
mas Stokely, Stephen Gapen, and Jofepl
Vanmetrc, Andrew Rabb, Thomas Gad
dis, Alexander Long, William Whitelide
John Oliphant, Robert M'Clure, ant
James Lang, and Thomas B Patterfon
James Stewart, Samuel Johnson, Williarr
Plumer, and Matthew Jamefon, be res
pedlvely appointed committees of corref
pondence for the counties of Walhington
Fayette and Allegheny, and that it fhal
be their duty to correspond together, anc
with such committee as (hall be appointee
for the fame purpose in t e county oi
Weftmoreland, or with any committees ol
a similar nature that maybe appointed in
other parts of the United Safes, and also,
if f,iund necessary, to call together eithet
general meetings of the people in their
relpediive counties, or conierencc# of the
several committees
And wheteas some men may be found
amongfl us, io far 101 lto every sense of
virtue and feeling for the diftreiles of this
country as to accept offices for the collec
tion of the duty ;
Resolved ther fore, That in future we
will coniider such persons as unworthy our
friendfhip have 110 intercourse or dealings
with them, with raw fiom them every as
lillan-e, and withhold all the comforts of
' lite which depend upon those duties that
as men and fel:»w-ci; /.ens we owe to each
other and upon all oc alions treat them
with that cci.tempt they d.serve, and ihat
it-be and it is hereby mod earnestly re
commended to the people at large to sol
low the fame line of condudl towards
tliem.
On motion, Resolved, That the minuted
of thia meeting be signed by the cha iman,
attelted by the clerk, and publiflied in the
Pittsburgh- Gazette.
JOHN CANON, Chairman.
Attest. Albert Gallatin, Clerk.
W A R S A W, June 2d.
Yeflertlay an express from Prince Joseph
Poniato* iki arrived with the following .c
---coijnt, dated at Wiemca the 27th of May,
"Lifutenant Golciowfki of the national
cavalry, occupying an out poll with 30c
men, perceived a body of 2,000 Ruffian;
approaching, who firft began the attack,
while Goleiowlki having returned the tire,
charged the enemy sword in hand, with
fucli impe'uofity, that their line was com
pletely brqken. A general action then
began, which lailed two hours and a haif
Notwithttanding so great a fuperioriiy oi
lumbers, the field of battle remained u;
jur troops ; 300 Ruffians were left or,
','ne spot ; our loss is 40 killed and 24
ivounded. This body of the RulTuns
vvas chosen from the nation called C/ :r
nomorce, bordering 011 the Black Sea,
reckoned the bravest : It is they wh;
:00k Berezina, near Oczakow, and whe
led the van in llorming Ifmailow. Elate
with former fuccef), and trusting to theii
numbers, they marched down with feem
!ng contempt, and little expetled 1 uch z
warm reception from a iiandfu of i .ties.
Our diiTerent divilion3 are marching t
Lithuania and to the Ukraine, with the
vre at ell expedition and alac ity They
iiad not a tingle deserter. In Lithuania
we fee the great ell ardour for defending
;heir liberty and independence, even theii
adies lbive to encouragc the youth tc
noble aitions ; inilead of cries and tears,
ail worthy of free women, they colleftec
urlong themlelves ducats at Wiiora :
for the expences of the war.
We hear from the dillricl of Rzcczyca ;
1 hat the Ruffians have entered on that de
fencelef. fide, and begun to carry off ai
the peasants and their families into (lavery
to people their defarts buch are thi
proofs of the friendly assurances given ii
the Emprefs'a declaration.
LONDON, June 19.
On his Majetty's return to the palace yes
terday, a privy coucil wa; held, which wa
attended by Mr. Pitt, the two Secretarie
of State, the Duke of'Leed , Lord Sydney
kc. when Lord Tliurlow laid the seal o
'lis office at his Majesty's feet, addieflin;
the King in a most feelingfpeech, repre
lenting the unstained slate wherein he hat
reiigncd hi:; conim ffion, which he had helt
!ince June 2, 1778. His Majetty feemet
affected on the occasion, on which Lore
Fhurlow immediately withdrew, and the
seals vere put in the comn.iGon of Lort
Chief Baron Kyre (who was sworn in om
of .Maieity'., Privy Council) Sir W. Ath
hurfl Knt. one of the Judges of the Gam
ut' King' iiench, and Sir John Wi!fon,Knt
uiie of the Judges of the Court of Commoi
Pleas w!;o killed tile King' 1 ; hand oil thei
appointment, and retired with the seals o
office.
A gentleman who arrived in town yet
terday ;.fu moon from Offend, mentions
that the Austrian army, to the amount <»
i"',006 men, under the command of Gene
ral ISeatilieu, had marched from Tournay
0:1 Thurfdav la!f, and General Luckner'
army was known to be in motion at tin
fame time ; that a violent cannonade wa
heard at Offend on Friday, and thai julf 01
:he departure of the packet, the Greffiei
received an exp.efs from the Governor o.
Mo.is, with an account of the Auitrian
laving taken 14 pieces of cannon and .
lowiuers in this action. The particular
jf which were ho irly e*pe£ted.
There have been frequent lkirmifhes be
:ween tiie Coflack' and the Poiifli natior.a
cavalry ; but the Ruffian forte, have no
advanced on either title, more than a leagm
into the territory of the republic. Tin
l'ol:!h army was expefled to have its com
nlete number, an hundred thoufapd men 01
the 30th of May. • 1
The Kng of Prulfia has a serious dispute
with the Circle of Franconia, who not on
!y pertift in their neutrality to ward, France,
but will only permit the paflbge of two re
giments of PruUian Hullars through theii
dominions.
Li Poland, whose revolution we rejoict
111, and the ho:'i!ity commenretl againti
which we are confident every hnglulimai
considers wilh indignation, there is an etS
iltft.iaiin which promises success to a glori
ou . caufe —an enthu!iat'm which we hops
may not end until the power of a neigh
bouring, ot a 1 e'litf , and an amb.lions t.ei
po:. In ill be so far crippled a» to rentier its
ba.ierul e:it its let's dettructive to the peace
or Kurope, and lei's fubvernve of hu
manity.
The following changes have taken place
in the French minii'try i
M. Dumourier, lace minister for foreign
affairs, is appointed war minister, in the
place of M Servaus ; and M. Mourges is
miniftef of the interior department, inflead
of M. Rolland. M. Claviet'e has left the
office of minister of public contributions,
but his successor is not yet appointed. M.
de Lallyac, the French Minister at the
court of Deux Points, succeeds M. Du
mourier as minister for foreign affairs.
The French king announced these altera
tions to the National Assembly, on Wednes
day lalt, upon whch a decree was palled
declaring, that the ministers carried with
them from office the regrets of the nation.
June. 23.
The Capt. of a French packet, which ar
rived on Wednesday nigilt at Dover, brings
intelligence that a general action has taken
place between the French and Aullrian ar
ia',e-, tiiat it was a hard fought buttle at
tended with very great slaughter, the Auf
trians having 10,000 killed and woui.ded,
and the French upwards of 5000, but that
tiie victory was greatly in favor of the
Fre;>ch
Menert and some other places are taken
by the French, and they were be Sieging
.Muns, which they expected to carry.
ADDRESS OF THE
KING OF POLAND
To the ARMY.
"By virtue of the constitution, ena£ted
22d March, 1792, the supreme and general
command of all the forces of the republic
1; e:itru!ted to u 1 in the foliowing terms —
[Here the aElofLtgijlalurt is recited): Thus is
the defence of our dear country confided to
Us and to You. The enemy that invades
it is well known to every Polauder. So
nany injuries, misfortunes, and humilia
tions heaped upon us by Ruflia, call to God
ind your courage for vengeance. The war
is no sooner declared than begun, without
:he least justifiable motive. Some degene
rate Pole-, rebels to their country, have lent
1 pretext- for it. They wish, with foreign
aid, to restore the ancient anarchy, fubjec
ion, and infiguificance, which your King at
.he head of a virtuous Diet, has luckilv ba
nished from the Poliih territories. Brave
:ountryme:i 1 we are now called upon to
111 tinrain our polTeflious, our honor, and
:>ur liberties—to defend our brethren, to
revenge so many wrong"-, which we and otir
forefather; ha s fuifc red, and to protect the
lionor of your K.ng. who consecrates, with
plsafure and finctrity, the remnant of his
->ld age to liis country. The nation longed
to have a respectable army, but anarchy and
foreign influence always opposed it ; at hilt,
ay chearful offers, it is railed to have in you
ts defenders, the improvement of whose
:ondition was not-forgotten by the present
vovernment. It was proper to add regu
larity and discipline common and necessary
,11 all armies, to the courage of Poles, which
though they may seem tleW to you, are not
:he lei's re iii lite for the Strength, order and
;!ory of the army. To execute those re
gulations lhall be the duty of your com
mander, and to obey them, ought to be
iour ambition—we ali mult obey the laws,
and you those who execute them. The
irmy we have opposed to us, owes its
trengtti to a blind obedience and fubmif
iion to orders. Endeavour to surpass it e
ren in th , and then neither its numbers,
lor its bravery, will be able to intimidate
he Poles. It is true Ruffian troops have
ieen accustomed to delpife the Poli!-h fol
liers, but you have now an open field to
ileferve a more honorable opinion in fu
ture. Your country, for whose inde
>t ndence we are going to fight, your King,
■a hole Heps are directed by jtiHice, (hall
..due and reward your merit and valor —
f«u may be fnre of b«ing amply repaid for
he hazard of your lives, by the gratitude
)!'your countrymen, by the acquilit'ron o!
;iory, and by the hands of your King.
Therefore, as your King and your com
nander, she recommends to you molt ear
lelilv to unite good conduit to obedience —
'ortitude to courage —and love of your
.ountry to loyalty.
We recommend to the commanding offi
cers vigilance and attention, exemplary
temperance and courage, vigor and justice
on every occalion.
The army of a free nation, thus qualified
w -tli a good cause 011 their fide, cannot fail
to find their support ill the powerful arm of
the Omnipotent. You serve for honor—
let it be your guide : the honor of a Polish
o'.dier is of the highelt importance, because
it is a pledge of the allegiance to his coun
try, to which he owes all.
Do not faSfer a traitor among you (Should
any unfortunately be found) and the fafety
of your country will be) our own work.
In every danger remember and think of
your dear country ; our life is the leaf!
tiling that we can offer her. Your com
mon father, your King, and your comman
der, gives you forever this word of com
mand —Children ! Let us either live free and lef
pecled, or die With honcr. Given at \VarUw,
.May 2jtii, the twenty-eighth year of our
r-. : o n. (Signed)
Stanislaus Augustus, Rex.
BOSTON, August 27.
Extrafl of a letter dated Maflzo, t itk December,
1791, to a gentleman in this town.
" Captain Kendrick had his veflel attack
ed on the coast, and the natives got pofTef
fion of his deck ; however, after killing a
bolit forty natives, they recovered her; the
natives had so far poflbffion, that they hand
ed over into their canoes, iron, copper,
guns. &c. without leave or licence. I for
got in my last to mention to you I discover
ed seven islands in the South Seas, which I
am sure from an examination of the different
voyages from the year 1400 to the present
date, all my charts, and globes of modern
date, were never discovered before ; they
are between the Marquefa's and the Sand
wich isles. My journals being on board,
puts it out of my power to transmit you by
the present conveyance their particular la
titude and longitude. However, the French
(hip I mentioned to you in my last, arrived
liere from the N. W. saw three of them,
and claim'd them as a new discovery ; but
on examining my journals, the isles they
had seen were the fame we had fee 11 a
month before them "
We farther learn, that the natives of the
N. Weft got poflefliou of the brig Washing
ton, Capt. Kendrick, who killed sixty of
them before he could recover, his veflel —
and that the two seamen of the Columbia,
Captain Gray, who were maflacred 011 that
coast, did belong to Nantucket, by the
names of Folgier and Barnes.
That our countrymen are not allowed to
fell their furs in China, isi certain—and its
equally certain it's not as has been faicf,
through the British inflnence —as we find
thay equally fuffer—ln the London price
:urrent of the :o:h April, the General
Doote, Capta n Baldwin, from China, en
ered fifteen cases of sea-otter Ikiiis, bro't
from Canton.
PITTSBURGH, August 25.
F.xtract of a letter from the Rev'd Mr.
Heckcnwelder. Indian Miflionary, to the
Rev'd Daniel Story. Marietta, dated Fort
Washington, July 21, 1:92-
" A day or two after our arrival at this
place we had news from Port \ iacent, that
one or two of our flags had b en killed ;
and since that, this news has been confirm
ed bv two men who had been taken prison
ers by the Indians, thefirftin general Har
mar's expedition, and the other on the 4th
clay of November last. —These men give
the particulars of the whole, as told them
by the Indians themselves, viz. that they
were firft taken and brought into the towns,
and after knowing their errand, the In
dians pur them to death."
[These flags were sent for the purpose
of making one more attempt to bring about
a peace with the savage fate, we
adduce, as a palpaple and public instance of
savage honor and benevolence, and as a
proof of the value of treatie: with those
who disregard the firft principles of them,
so far as to'murder the very agents sent to
eltabiifh them.]
Thurlday lair arrived here from the east
ward, a detachment of about 300 men, un
der the command of Captain Mills.
And the fame day a company of men
from Virginia, commanded by Captain
Smith.
N E W - Y O R K, August 28.
MANUFACTURING SOCIETY.
On Wednesday the 22dinftaat arrived at
the town of Patterfon from Newark, a re
fpeftable number of gentlemen, directors
and friend of the manufactory. They pro
ceeded to examine the fevera! works, and
viewing the machinery for, carding, roping
and fpinningof cotton, they exprelfed their
entire approbation, as the wori far ex
ceeded their mofl sanguine expectations.—
We are happy to inform our readers that
tiii.- undertaking prom.fes (air to be benefi
cial to the proprietors, and of great utility
to the community at large.
Major L'J.nfant laid before the meeting
(which alio met the approbation of the so
ciety, a plan of the town, vvhith far ex
ceeds any tiling of the kind yet seen in this
country. The buildings of the m 11 factory,
and the dwelling hottfes for the accommo
dation of the artists and workmen, are go T
ing 011 very rapidly, and it is expelled from
the spirited exertions of the workmen em-'
ployed, that the whole will be compleated
before the winter lets in.
CARLISLE, August e.a.
A corrcfpondent having seen a circular letter
frotn a committee of Philadelphia, refpefting
the ensuing eleflton for members- of Congress,
;ind electors of Pnfident and Vice-i resident, is
much surprised to find a fele£i few warned to
meet ?t night andin a tavern, to take this matter
in'oconfidera ion, and is of opinion th.it public"
notice being given to the county, who might fend
delegates from each township, that so, filch as
pleased might attend at the couit houic in the
day time,on some coriTenient day, would be a
more eligibl mode of eonfulting on luih mo
nn-ntous business, which concerns not only this.
County, but the flat at large.PHILADELPHIA.
September 5, 1792.
We hear, with great pleasure, that the
sugar maple lands in New-York and Penn
sylvania, have attracted the attention of
European and American settlers ot ail ranks
and descriptions. A number of French fa
milies, of ample resources for improving
the country, are about to fettle ou ihe eall
branch of the Sufquehannah- A manufac
tory of sugar and potalh, in the hands 01 a
number of citizens of Philadelphia, is aboil.
to be eftabliflied on a rich body of !ugar
maple land oif tile Delaware- In short, it
would fccm, from the paflion that hits late
ly appeared for that species of land, that
the whole of the sugar maple country will,
in a few years, vie in cultivation and wealth
with the oldest and richest counties in New-
York and Pennsylvania. An acr« of the
maple lanJ, in Nirthumberlaiid county,
Which was of the firlt quality, yiekled, in
one year, nine and thirty bulhels of wheat ;
and an acre of that which was of the low
est quality in Northumberland county,
yielded tuxnt) bulhels ot the fame grain, in
' one year.
A writer in a daily* paper fays, that he is
of opinion that of the causes which multi
ply diseases and principally occafio;) fevers
in August and September, Melons may be
reckoned foremort. In Paris at certain pe
riods of the season, the police orciers them
to be thrown into the Seine, ant 1 at W: -
tirid r'l f y ire never fuffer-ed to come into
the c'lt , 11 lef si.'st examined by persons
appointed or th£ purpose.
It is a strange jumble of ideas, fays acor
refpondent, to suppose the present constitu
tion of the United States to be e"conne£Ud
with the preceding, or confederation, !o
called, ane at the fame time talk of dischar
ging the debt contracted by the late govern
ment. In a letter of the 24th inU uddrefi"-
ed by Mr. the Register, to Mr. Ha
milton, the Secretary of the Treafyry —he
fays, "I have the honor to encioft ay ab
flraft statement of ihe debt incurred by the
late government, and which has been pa.d
oft by tile prejtnt government."—This mode
of expreflion would lead one to imagii>
that there have been sundry revolution- 1
th:s country ; ; t leafl that the Rcgiftcr con
ceives so, when he thinks of d iiere-.t or
former and pitfeiit govenmie;" , un . .'s by
late government he meafl Great-Britain,
and yet it can hardly be supposed he wot;M
have t tinder.'lood .nui the trea iu of the
United States v- .H take much pains to in
form the people that they are duehurging
Britilh debts.
Electioneering pieces begin to make their
appearance pretty tivek iu fever a. papers
for members of Co:i_;ref-. A -
Elector am dft a great blaze of virtues ai-d
good properties which he has ligh.ed up for
a friend of his, recommends h.m *or " face
tious humour," and h.s " mod-Jl aversion to pub
lic lifeand'to another >v .mil lie holds
up for a candidate, " that heis a right up ana
down honelt man."
The public fays a correspondr nt, mult be
strongly impr-fled with the imparl l -i.ry <>l , - 1-
no's Gazette, when they fee whole columns of t
d voted to "ObfefVation on the letters of a fain
addieffed to the Yeomanry of the - nited - U
' whilst thel'e letters themlelvei are carelully k«p;
out of that ithmaculatc Gazette, doubtless, bet "fc
of that impurity of thought which impeach :i<.
fail deal I.J o -the t,ry of the Trea'u'y with
reg-ird to national n'. .. .:otures. B'J r thi 1 one f
dtd liditor patiently waits his rewarJ, in the son
fololary reflection of Satan to Job, Ili diou dos't
well, thalt thou not be accepted '
The Bank of South Carolina (a Charleston pa
per mentions) was epene -in the E7th tilt.
The ittfburgh (Jasseti ot Augutt Is,cr-ntains
the following notitkatioi from Capt Faulkner ■
" Notice i hereby given, a» an infpc. 1011 office
has been kept by Gen. - cviile, at mi houlc in
Wafhingtrm, I hereby inloritt the publi that it
shall be kept there no longer. Those who are
uneasy and making threats, may give thertilelvea
no further trouble-'
European intelligence is received in New York
as late as June 27th. But the Editor of a paper
there gravely tells us that he is obliged to omit
it, with a variety of other matters, to make room
for" Occurrcnces in the East Indies." 1 1!
At Concord iu New Hampshire, there has been
a very severe tornado, which in its courf tore to
pieces many dwelling houses, barns, woods, -<c
A man was caught up by the wind and carried
eight or ten rods. It is remarkable that the force
of the wind was not more than twenty rods in
width.
On theelevcnthult. a very extraordinary [form,
attended by the largefl hail-stones ever rcmem
bered, happened in the fame (fate, of which a
gentleman gives the following account.
" The lumps of hail, that I examined, were of
various sizes, but the large.il were generally
eompofed of as many as eight or nine lesser Hones,
congealed firmly together in one lump ; th.fe
lesser parts were of different forms, some of the
least were circular, no more tlian a Uiird of an
inch diameter, yet these were of the spheroid
kind, happening lo by their exposed parts lultjin
ing in their del'cent diffilution, or ot the fliape
delcribed ; some had the appearance of an elhjifis
with its conjugate and transverse d. de
lineated by the fingers of nature ; others of the
prismatic, some cylindric, and some conic, and in
the components of each lump, all the iorme re
sulting from the conic fe&ions, were clearly dis
cernible ! I weighed some of these, which were
ever two ounces and «tji half."
" The F.tnch nation will be free, in spite oi
the number of diflea&oril fomenting even in thci;
affei.bly, by the enemies to all hbeiiy ; th<
created, anu the far part of the nation
being (launch to the conllitution."
A meeting of a number of farmers and other
refpe-ltable inhabitants of the county of Mont
jjomcry ( i ennfylvanial was held on the joth of
,iju.n't. when it was unanimously declared, that
fufu'eient time had not been given to the inhabi
tants to attend a former meets'ng tliat had appoint
ed acommittee of conference ; and that a majori
ty of the county was not represented at laid
meeting ; It was therefore unannnou y retolved,
that it is the (.pinion of this meeting, that public
notice fuould be immediately given to the free
men of the county, to attend at the house of Ed
ward arkcr, . erkioman Creek, on Saturday the
Bth day of September next'; thereby to have art
opportunity to consult each other on the measures
aiofl proper to be pursued, in order to counteract
iny unjull encroachments that may, or have been
nade upon the rights and privileges o the free
a nof the county, by a small minority of laid
;ounty.
The Communication from Mr.
Pea'e, refpccVing Mr. JohnS. Hutton, 1.
unavoidably pollponed till our next.
- - -,n,„ jrj-.f nrmm ■ m -WflCT«r- " "-M*-Z&SV
For the National GazkttE.
'"RTAIN Treasury Documents were
lately publillml tor the information of
ie community, without any prrcife cielip,-
ia:ion of the purpose for which they we. e
ju li.iied. They were left to speak tor
ihemfelve , with only a ihort introdnftion.
:ienomuV:r in:; them " Authentic document
respecting the pro ' 'ef- which has been made
bv tne prefoit governm nt of the United
States, towards extinguithing the debt'
Contrasted under the former government."
A w -iter in this Ga/.ette o Saturday l- 1
under the signature of 4ercator, ha- tho'.
it to came forward, and, afiigniug what he
ranreives to b:*rhe object of the publtca
ii .. . endeavor■ to fhc.v, that the contrary
of what was intended. sstruei
What r./ht had Mep.cATOR to ftippofe.
that any rhing more was intended, than
iimplv to inform the publiCj that b fides a
twtiual payment cj the intcejl nn the debt, from
ti,e period, at which wzfn 'i mere matured to b
ov that payment, a confid-rabk fvnt nftht Capital
1 Dei ' hj,s b " extiv;ui[i" d a th afu -
Iter fun wilt be extinqu fh~d by a p-dinfton already
t- " vcrv natural
* .'fence, 1 men i by eveiy
candid mind, that the G«vfcfnuiienthas been
attenti '. c renin : oce.s would per
mn >' n 1 1 ocr.".!, :o the extinguihi
menl of the debt
Rut admitting MbscAtoh to be right in
|i : ! so. .rr l - ... () ■ . (ill . i, 1C i '. 0 Tefll I lied,
ihat. alt i'al conttruftion of all circum
llanccs wdi jn'hi'y the pofifon, that the
nreftrr overnment • reduced the debt
oftisr »vii" ov> rnment to tne extent
BJtpreiled in the documents which have
been pfoiH!'. d. This v ill refnlt. if it (ha"
appear that p. ovi.'on was made for the in
te-tll, a ' •< vas-rea'bnably practicable
To havfe pa d the i aterelt from that peri >d
a id to have lu.vk I<> much of the cap'ta! in
UtlJ't.l : r c'ont'.rusoon. to ha' e re
do; ■ .i the debt :o tile extent of the capital
, ilk-
When Mercator undertook tofappofe an
.a ct, which was not declared, he ought to
have taken care to be better informed and
-lore accurate.—When he undertook to
ilate an account witit t'l 'veafury depart
tnent, he ought no:, only to have selected
jillt it e:n-. to have aderted to date... t.nics
i>.:id poilibilit'-es, but he to have dated
the whole account-
Tin iie has not done ; on the contrary
he has both mifre ; irtTe:ued suit) fuppre!! tl
fa£t«. He has iliewn, in the true spirit o; a
certa.il junto (v.aio not con out \\ 'ih tne
large lhare of power they have in the go
vernment, are incelTantly laboring to mo
nopolize the whole o its power, a.id tobi
ni'fi from it every mm who is not fubfervi
evif to their pVepofterous and all-grafpi
vi-j-a that he has been far mote folicitoo'.
"■> arrdigyi, than to manifeft the trnth-'-to
take away, than to a'.ord consolation to
'.he people of the Uuned State ■■
The following particulars are proofs of
his want both of accuracy a:id candor.
First. He charge* to the treasury de
oartment arrears ot intere I ', which a c ue.i
tjrior to its ex.flence, tnat i , from the . ■
of r 757 ; whereas the dep-trrmen*
'.va not inft' -nted tiii tlie 2d of September,
nor organized till about the 1; 1, when 1
.1! informed the aa. .»! th - irra'.iUy
Secondly. He tak a . the Ita/.i' 'd o:
his calculation, the whole amount oi tlu
annual int.'.-reft on the who;. a:.iat..it o' Ihe
public debt, as it ex It id or the preset.
funding lyheni, ifirl.tdo; aii tb • arr ar oi
inter eft made principU. and the 21 joo.ooc
dollars of aflbmed debt—m hereas . .ie a'r
•rem -■ which tl.d acfua',l • acctnt ulate to tb
cial of t.aa vc.nr ;• w -re oniy o 1 the pun
cipal of the fore and d.'.W.c Vb., u,n>
. 1 ji. .. ■: more tl.a.i a nitllion of doihir., Oi
the sum lie Ilate .
These limple facts prove the fallacy of hi
ftatemen
But the principle,upon which lie proceeds,
is not lei's ao.tird, titan his calculation . are
fallaciou .
With as much propriety might an execu -
tor be charged with increnfing the debts of
his testator, by faifering the arrears of in
terest on his bond i ami notes to accumulate
while he was collecting, arranging and dif
poling of the eftefls,- to discharge the debt
oftheeftate; as the present government,
or if the phrase is preferred, the present
•.! e.tlurv department, may be charged with
;nofe arrearage , which unavoidably ac
crued, during the preparatory measures for
bring ng the resources of the public eft ate
;iito°acbvity. Wnil as much reason might
it be charged with the 13,000,000 of inte
relt, which accumulated under the imbecile
system, the old co.ifcderation, to vVhich,
not to worse of thejUnion !
the deiigns of the junto evidently point, 01
lend.
When, proceeding upon grounds so loose
.tnd uujufl, Mercaror males the extraordi
nary declaration, that ;he secretary of the
treasury " h'. produced all actual addition to
the public debt ol more than one million
md a half of dollars," is it not palpab e,
:hat in the molt malignant spirit of party,
!ie is endeavoring to e'eftroy the public con
fidence in that officer, no matter how un
fair the mean-;, a - one link in the chain of
ii .Mi'nre bv u h'.ch the domineering a'ms ol
lis party are to be . Ifeited, or the canie of
.onf's.'-«; promt red ? Is it not clear that ir
the language ani conception? of lAercatbr, to
'jro''idc for a debt, and to u product 1 it, amount
to the fan e thimr ? .
To form a 1111 l better estimate of the spi
rit by which lie is actuated, let there be a
review of foitie leading facts.
Congress met under the present govern
ment 011 th" 'irlt of April, 1789 To put it
in motion they had a valt s>itl very arduous
work before them. This was ol courle a
primary object a provision v or the deot
a fecondarv one. It was ( natural then that
the si 'ft feflion (hould have been exhausted
in organizing the government, and that a
fyfteifMtic provision for the debt (hould be
postponed, as in fact it was, to the fecojid
ftjlflon. A temporary and partial provision of
rev< nue or:i 1 made, by very
moderate dutie of import, far ihort of an
ul annate fund for the iupport of govern
. ; it and the payment of the interest 011
1? debt, to take effett 011 the firft of Au
gust, i~Bq ; which wis as early as the law
could be promulgated tnroughout the uni
.l i, and the Subordinate executive arrange
in ■tit-: made for carrying it into execution.
It has been Hated, that the treasury de
partment began to be in activity on the
i 3th of September. Congress adjourned on
;■ It. tn of that month, after having 111-
' rrucled the secretary of the treasury to re
port concerning the "debt at tkt enjuingJcJJion.
t is to be recollected that without an or
der of the house that officer can propose
nothing.
'Tis evident then, that there was no rel
oonlibility on the fide of that department,
f: ,!■ the ac'cumillation of interest on the den;
until at earliest the second fellidn, which be
»an on the - th of January, i"9°.
' On Thursday, the 14th of January, the
secretary of rhe treasury submitted to the
fotife of Representatives, according to or
t!ic plan of a provision for the public
debt, comprehending an additional provi
sion of revenue for the purpose o. facing
the interest. P>fTt it was not till the 4th of
Au;<;u<i,that the principles of a provision for
the debt were determined by law, nor till
the 10th of the fame month, that a kipple
nentary fund was eftabliihed for paying the
ntereft upon it ; and from conuderations
as an obvious nature, the commencement
if this fund in operation was deferred to
he firft of Jatfnarv following
Here again 'tis manifeft. that there was
30 refpor.fibility in the treasury department,
for the accumulation of interest up to the
K'riod from which it has been punctually
■ .id, namely, the firft of January, 1791;
jeeaufe it was not in the power of that de
xirtmentto have accelerated a provilion for
t. Nor will any blame justly light upon
C.Ticrets for the moderate delay which en
'u -i It was their duty to bestow much
ieliberation upon the fubiecf Much diaer
•nee of opinion, much lengthy discus. on, a
.onfiderab' loss of time, were to be ex
vtled in relation to a fubjeft so niomea
rou , so p. rplexiug, touching so differently
j in-.ay chbi of paflion and interest.
The law providing for the debt having
priui'd—tlv secretary of the treafurv imme
' |i-rc 1 v fei/!ed the opportunity which was
■ .'"ordecl, by an Unappropriated furplfts of
ev.aue to the end of the year 1790, to
nake an imprellion 011 the debt. He pro
oole'd that it fiiou'd be app.r d to purcha
j:■ of the debt, at its market prices which
..as agreed to by Oongrefs, and has b en
carried into execution asfsr as circui.iftati
ce have hitherto permitted.
This was certainly the best application
that could have been made of the fflflld. It
C -a -Sly the micreft of the go- er.iment
and of the public creditors :-Of the go
vernment, because it w.as a clear gain oi a.l
the dirte.-cnce bet-.veen the sum of fpocie
paid and the sum of debt redeemed, which
is ah—ady 514,801 dollars raid (.9 cents, and
,11 be more when the remaining sum a;-
o.'on, iared comes to be applied to further
uireha es ; because it wa) a clear favmg to
[IIL . .-on of all the difference in price
which wa- p -id by foreign.' r- in their pur
chase, in confsquence of the competition
oi the goverhmeut, in the market, as a pur-
chafer. It is well known to every vteij
informed man, that the rapid
of the debt was materially owing to that
ircumftance, and of course the fa/ving td
;he nation by it has been Very conjidcrable. —
The measure in question was equally bene
ric.al to the public creditors— because it the
fund applied to purchases had bee,n appor
tioned among them in payment of intereif,
it would have been a mere pittance ; buc
applied as it was, it gave a rapid spring td
the (whole value of their (lock.
As it is therefore proved; that the treasu
ry department is chargeable with no delay
with regard toap'rovilion for the debt, oc
casioning an unnecessary accumulation 6f
iutereft ; in a question of merit, refpefting
that department, which Mercator has raited,
it will follow, that the department on ac
count of the operations which have beer!
advil'ed by it, iias an unbalanced elaim of me
at with the community.
ill. For all that has been or shall be saved py
pilrchales of the public debt at the market pri
ces
ad. For all that has been saved to tne nau
on for the more advanced prices given by tb
reignersin their purchases of the debt.
But there are other items of importance to be
placed on the fame iide of the account.
lft.The saving re lulling from the reduced rate
on the new loans mauo for paying oft the fo
reign debt .
2d. The positive gain of 1,c00,0000f dol
l.H'S by the milltution of ihc Baiik ofr the United
States. The fluck of the Bank bring at an ad
vance of 50 pet' cent, it is clear, that the govern
ment, by having become a proprietor to the ex
tentof 2,c00, 000 of dollars, has by this fmgle o
peration made an a£lual nett p>olic of t,cco,ocd
of dollars; that is, it can get three millions foe
what will have colt it only two. _ .
I add nothing for any saving, which has ac
ctued from the paiticulai modification of the
(iumellic debt, for two rea(ons;"one because the
lubjeft being more complicated would require
moie illustration, and the other because the
plan adopted by the legiflatuie, though having
the leading features «i that proposed by the
Treasury Department, differs from it in fame
material refpeefs ; a flrong relutation df the !^ca «.
so indull 1 ioufly inculcatcd, that the plans of
that depaitment are implicitly followed by the
legiflatuie; aiid a decilive proof, that (hey have
had no more weight than they to have
had, that is to fay than they weie intitled to*
from their inttinfic realoiiahlencls in the unbi I
fed and independent judgment of rryijonties jn
the two houles of Congicls. The lefult of
what has been said is this—that proViGon was
made for paying jhe interest of the debt as eaily
as could 1 cafenably have beer. c;:p-:t.d—that no
negligence having happened, the arrears of mte
-1 ell which accumulated in the interval are pio
peily a part of the debts of the former govcni
luent and co'.tfcquciltly that the funis which'
appear to have been abioibed are lo much thw
Jc bis of the Government cxiiu o uilhed by the
new. , , .
Mercator brings as a proof, that the pubjtc
ilebt has increaled and is increalin;', "what he
ermS the present amount .md encreajing weight
of the duties ol impoll aftd excile.*' Let facts de
idc the soundness of this logic—ln the lall fel
rion of Congress, the only excise duty which ex-
Ds, was reduced upon an average fifteen per
rent. The only addition which w is then made to
he impolls was for carrying on the Indian War,
ind bv avoiding recouife to permanent loans lor
hat purpofc, to avoid an incrtafe of the debt.
How then can that, which was done to avoid an
ncreafe of debt, be a proof f hat it has inerea/'cd?
C 1 V I S.
Metro roiog ical obseiu'ations..
August 1-2.
D H Bar. ] Ther.tVlhd. H cat/1,
'V<dnefday, 23. 6 30. 1 N. E. Cioudy.
a 30. li 78 1 do. lair.
Thuifdny, j3. 0 30" 1 57 N. £.
2 30. o| 7v K-_ do.
Friday, 24. <• 29. b ; I •■>• CUv^y.
2 29, 7; ~3 ' <h>. tio "
Saturday, 25. 6 2y. 6 WN. W. tau.
2 20. ■ 78 ' do. do. _
Sunday, 26. 6 30. o 58 N.W. ■
a ,0. 1 75 1 do.
Monday', 2 59 W- Fak ~
a o. 80 I do. a<'. t
Tuesday, 28. 6 20. < 7° '
' J '2 jo. o 80 IN. W.|iw.
Terres a Vendre'
Dan un fait tun feuple',—
S AVOIR, foiiante cirnj mills, trois certs, fni*-
ante et quatorze Aires, en iiric feuU pieces
eans le canton le mieux peuple de la Me
ridionale, leDiftiiftde Ninety Six. Ces terres
tont fitirees une ..tireable', et
u les fievres lont ineonnues; a env'trofi vingt l'ltucs
<1 e Colombie, la Capitale, et contigues ala ville
de Cambiidge, 6u il y a College, et Cour fupeii
eure. A environ douze lieues, il y a bonne navi
gation ; et il eft tres probable, que dans quelqu;
lemsan rendra navigable le Grand Saiucre, riviere
qui arrofe les terres mimes. Elles foiit agt£able
ment diverfifiees de coteauit et vallons charmanjy
propres a ia culture du tabac, du coton, tiu maisy
et du petit grain jet aont une proportion coiifi-er
ahle fe peutai»ement convertir en prairies fertilely
11 n'eft peut-ctre yuercs poflTi'ble de rencomrer une
pareille piece dc terre a vendre dans autre
desEcats Unis ; et pour leb conditions de Tachat*
on les rendra tres commodes.
S'informer a l'inoprimerie de la Gaze Na-<
tionale.' i*Froin the BojJon Independent Chronicle.
Mr. ADAMS,
WHEN the funding system was undercon
fideration in Congress, and the patriotic
M ADISON, and others'\iv%e& the propriety of a
difct imi nation )■ \n order to do jullice to the ori
ginal public creditors, some of thole opposed to a
discrimination, declared, that if any application
was brought forward, by the late army for a com
pensation for their services, none would be more
ready than they to support it j and this was
only the language of foroc in, but also of many
out of Congress ; who from their interested situa
tion, might probably be opposed to a discrimina
tion ; than which, no measure could have been
more just and righteous.
It is unneceflary to recapitulate the solemn sti
pulations and promiffs of the government to theii
army, or their acknowledgement of the faithful
nefs of that army, thele will remain on re-
Cord, as long as the archieves of our country
Oiall endure. Nor is it neceflary to repeat that i
large proportion of the evidences of the dues o]
the soldier, were transferred to speculators, for a
few {hillings on the pound, becaule the govern
ment negle&ed to provide funds, for their propel
security : And that the property so acquired b}
Peculators, multiplied by a gain of from five tc
nin- hundred per cent, profit, by the funding
system % has enabled the prefeut polfrfTors to figun
away in the fundi and banks, in public lands t anc
in a va-iety of other Jpeculations, to a latitude sur
prising, even to themselves. But where arc thoJ\
men, who earned this property, at the peril of thei
lives—and have never yet received an adequat<
consideration therefor, either from the public, o
from those who are enjoying of it ? Their har<
earned dues, in m«ny instances, they were-com
pelled to dispose of far a trifle, to save themfelvc
and their families from flarving. What remain
ed in their hands, at the time of funding, by tba
fyjiem, has a third part suspended from interest
lor ten years ; and a further injury is done thenr
by not paying them at the time of funding, bu
funding furh interest at three per cent.—Thi
was murk more tkan enough, for those who ha<
purchased certificates at 2/6 on the pound. Bu
to the original creditors, it was not only a real in
jury, but repugnant to the solemnly tiipulate<
agreement made with them by government.
The members of the late army are now com
ing forward with memorials to Congress, in orde
to obtain that justice which has been solemnly
and repeatedly promised to them ;, and which the;
feel confident their country, will never allow to b<
withheld from them. Jf upon investigation, i
/hould appear that compensation, fully ecjual t<
the lofTes they have sustained, thro' the negled
of the government, cannot be -madd, without in
volving the community in much difficulty—cat
any honed man lay his harjd upon his heart am
lay, that one third part of their dues can upor
any principle of justice or equity, be fufpende;
frcm interest for term of ten years 5 or tha
they not to receive the interest that wai
due to them to the time of funding ? The plac.
ing this third part on interest, and payment of the
other reservation, will not add a single farthing
to the public debt, solemnly contracted, and just
Jy due 5 and it is presumed, that a wife and virtu
ous republic, will never wish to make a saving t<
itfelf, drt the expence of the original public credi
tors—and fiom them alone, whose services an<
loans have been acknowledged in the most exalt'
ed ftrainsthat language can paint them.
I do not pretend to fay, that this would be con
fidered as a just compensation, by the fufferer
themselves, but I will venture to fay, as a mem
ber of the community, and as one bound to paj
my proportion of the public debt, wherever it i
found to be juitly due, that if such a meafuri
would give fatisfa&ion, honor and justice, as wel
as found policy and good faith, unite in favor o
its beingdone $ and that so seasonably, as to in
sure its being done with some grace.
There aie some who are already objefli
ans to the making compensation to the army, b«
suggesting that luch a measure would open a vvidi
field j that others have as good claims to justice ,
and that if the door be once opened, they wil
come forward, &we (hall not know where to stop
This to be sure, is a very plausible objection, bu
can never have any great weight with those, whe
arejuft and honest, and mean to paj their jus
debts. If the public is as fairly, and by as folcmr
contracts j (yet unfulfilled) indebted to others, a:
to the late arm}, they are in duty bound to pa)
them : But this is no obje&ion to the wel
founded claims of the army. And where can the
public with more propriety, begin to do justice,
than with those with whom they have so solemn
ly ftipuhte,d 5 and who have through the ncg.
led of the government, loft so large a propor
tion of the : r just dues ? which lodes, by the fund
ing system, have been fandtioaed, to the aggran
dizement of a few j while the many loofers of th<
fame property, are fubjeSed to pay in duties or
the necefl'aries of life which they coufume, a pari
of the fruits of their daily industry, to ensure the
payment of the interest quarterly, on an unrea
sonable gain.
If this meritorious class of men, are to be lefl
if. this siTuation, without compeiif.nion, in some
way or other, for their services and lofTes in the
public service, can any man rationally expect
that peace and prosperity can long beam in oui
land. Square, if'you can, ye champions of mo
dem justice and policy, things so unequal with im
mutable right, or with that constitution whicl
among other things, has been reared expressly /<
ejlabijh. JUSTICE.
George Town, June 2 y 1792.
A NUMBER of LOTS in every lituatior
which may be desired in the city of Wash
ington, will be offered for fa!e, by the Commif
fioners on Monday the Bth day of October next.
One fourth part of tha purchase money to b*
down, the residue in three equal annual pay
ments, with yearly interest on th_- whole-princi
pal unpaid. JOHN M. GANTT,
July 25, Cleik to the Commifiioners.
*** For /'ale at this Office, Sermons by
the Rev'd Dr. William, Linn, of N. York
Price 5/7 1-2.
Prices Current at Philadelphia.
[Dollars equal to 100 cents.]
ASHEb Pot per ton 90 to 100 d
Arties Pearl 137 — — 140.
'-•aeon flitches per lb. 7 cents.
:>acon shoulders — 6 do.
Bees wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27.
Bran iy, Coniac, pergl. 1 dol. 20 c. to 1d.33 C,
urandy, common, 1 dol.
Butter, in kegs, per lb. 9 c. to 10.
Coals, per buih-el, 20 c. to 22
Coftee, per lb. 18 to 19 c.
Cotton, per lb. 26 c. to 40
Flax, per lb. 11 to 12 c.
Flour, luperfine, per barrel, 4dol. 93 c.
Common, . 4 dols. 80 c«
Burr middlings, best, per brl. 3d. 73 c.
Meal Indian 2 dols. 52 c.
Rye 2 dols. 40 c.
Ship fluff, per cwt, So c» to 1 dol.
Gin, Holland, per cafe, 4 dols. 67 c.
Ginseng per Jb. 20 c. to 24
Grain, barley, per bushel, 90 c.
bed (helled, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per bushel, 40 c.
Indian corn, 44 c. Oats 18 c. pr. bush.
R>e 74, Wheat 80 to 90 c.
Ham?, per lb. 8 c. t® 9
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67c.
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9 c. to 11
indi;»o, Carolina, per lb. 1 dol, to 1 dol. roc.
Iron, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
Callings, per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nail-rods per ton 96 dols.
F'g, per ton, 24 dols. to 26 doJs. 67 c.
Sheet, per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
Lard, hogs, per lb. 9 c. to io
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
In pigs, 5 dols. 33 c. to 5 dols. 67 c
Red, 0 dols. 40 c. to 0 dols. 67 c
White, 10 dols. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Myrtle wax per Jb. 16 c.
Molafles, per gal* 44 c. to 56
Nutmegs, per lb. 7 to 8 dollars
Oil, Linseed, per gallon, 65 to 67 c.
Pepper, per lb. 37.
Pimento, j6c.
Porter, London, pcr.cfozen, l dol. 60 c.
American, do. j d. 4 c. to 1 d. 60 c.
Pitch, per barrel, 1 dol. 77 c. to 2 dols.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 1 idols to n d 33c
Lower County, do. io dols.
Carolina, do. 9 dols.
Rice, per 100 lb. 2 dols. 50 c. to 2 dol. 67 c.
Rosin, per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 d 015.67 c.
Rum, Antigua, per gallon, 1 dol.
Barbadoes, do. do. 83 c.
New-England, &c. 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. j8 c. to id. 22 c.
Windward Island, 83c.
Salt, (Allum) per bushel, 24 to 27 c.
Cadiz, 23 to 24 c.
Liibon, ■ 25 to 27 c.
Liverpool, ■ 29 c.
Skins, Deer, in hair, per lb. 20 to 30 c.
Red, ditto, 26 to 33 c.
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
Su gar, Havanna, white, per lb. 17 to 18 c.
Brown, per lb. 11 to izc.
Muscovado, per cwt. 13 d. te*Js d.
Lump, per lb. 24 c.
Loaf, Tingle refiaed, 26 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 c.
Tallow, refined, per lb. 9 c.
Carolina, new, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dols.
Carolina, old, 2 do;». 7 c to 3 dol
Tar, New-Jersey, 24 gal. to the brl. 1 d 01.3
Carolina, 32 gral. i dol. 33 c. to 1 dol. 67 c
rurpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. 67 c. to 2 tioli.
Tea, Hyson, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
Hyson skin, 53 c. to 67
Soufhong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 30 c. to 33
Tobacco, James River, best. per cwt. 3 dols. 60
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 2 dols. 67 c. to 3 dols.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 2 dols. 50 c. to 3 dol
Coloured Maryland, 5 di'. 33 c. to 3 d
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, z dols. 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dols. 23 c.
Wine, Madeira, per pipe, 176 dl. to 226 dl.
Lisbon, 120 to 126
Teneriffe, per gal. 63.
Fayal, 52
Port, per pipe, ii3dol. 33 c.
Sherry, per gal. 90 c. to id. 20c.
Society for ejlab/ifiitrg ufeful Manufacture:.
NOTICE is hereby given to the holders o
ih.ck in the said society, that the follow int
arrangement has been made by the Deputy Go
ernor and Directors thereof, by a resolution o!
the eighteenth day of May, 1792.
The itcond instalment foi the payment of share:
in the stock of this society, may be made in the
following manner, viz.
The amount of the said second instalment, be
ing 20 13-100 dollars each fbare. may be paid ir
three payments, on condition that tbe lawful ir,.
tereft of 7 per cent, per annum, be calculate
and paid with each proportionate part of thebaic
payment, that is to fay, on or before the thir
teenth day of August next, the sum of 6 71-100
with the addition of 12 cents, being the intereil
of one month on 20 13-ico dollars—on or be
ore the 13th of September next, the sum of (
fi-ioo dollars, with the addition of 8 cents, be
ing the interest for one month on 13 42-100 dol
lars—and on or before the 13th of O&ober next,
the sum of 6 71-100 dollars, with the addition oi
4 cents, being the interest on the fame for on
month. The laid payments are to be made at th<
following places, \iz. In the city of Philadelphia
at the bank of the United States—at New-Erunf
wick, in Nevv-Jerfey, to John Bayard, cr Joru
Neilfon, Efq;s—and in the city of New-York, a
the bank of New-York, or either of the said
places, which may be most convenient to the
Hock holders.
By order'of the dire&ion,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Cietk.
Jul)-24. - t f.
BOOKS,
Printed and fold by
MATHEW CAREY,
No. li 8, Market-Street, Philadelphia■
American Museum, from its commencement,
in January 1787, to June 1792, in eleven volumes
neatly bound and letter ed, Seventeen dollars
and three fifths,
1 his work which is now conducted on an im
proved ptan, containing the beji pieces pubhfhedfcr
a?;, lit gain)} tbe proceedings of govern ment, will be
found to contain at leaf as great a variety of poli
tical , agricultural, andmijcellaneous ejjays, as any
ever publifijed in America. Perhaps in no one ivork
are Jo many valuable documents rejpeftir.g the hijlo
ry °f this country, collected together. His excei-
Uncy the President of the United States, has de
clared of it, that " a more useful literary plan
■las never been undertaken in Amcrica, nor one
more of public encouragement." The
übfeription is two dollars and a half per annum.
Gentlemen in the country who wijb to be supplied
with this work, Are requefied to give commijjion to
friends in the city to fubjeribe jor and receive it.
2. Smith's letters to married womeu, on nursing
unathe management of children. "We recommend
thtje tetters to t/.eperujal of those to whom they a-t
particularly addrtjjed. /Monthly Review, Vol. 3S,
Page 101. Price bound fve eighths of a dollar.
L>ur.can s elements of Logic. three fourths of a
dol ar.
4. Beauties of Fielding, 50 cents.
5. beauties of Blair, 50 cents.
6. Ladies* Pocket Library—containing :—Mif
More's EjJ'ays j Gregory's Legacy j Lady Pen
nington s auvice 3 Marchionejs of Lambert's ad
vice 5 Swift's letter to a newly married ady j
s>lrs. Chapone on command of temper $ More's fa
vies for the ladies Price 6/6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Price a dol•
lar anti a quarter.
7, iilemefits of Mo *i Science, by James Beat
tie, 1.1.d. profefjor of moral philojopby and log'h
in the A'larijil.ar College, Aberdeen—Price thre*
fourths oj a dollar. Of this book the Critical Re
viewers ( vol. 69. p. Jay : " ]Ve have fee/
nothing on thejc JubjeE'ts more plain, more perfpicu
>s, or more generally ufeful.'
9. Beauties ol Poetiy, Price four fifths of a
dollar.
10. Blair's S_rmon>,-- Price two dollars.
Ij. i^eckat i s Trcatije on the importance of reli
gious opinion 11 Price four fifths of a dollar.
12 Examination oj the objervations of Lord Shef
field on American Comrretce• Price, on very fin<
paper, five eightvs of a dollar•
13. £he Confiitutions of the Jeveral United States
with the federal ConJiitution } &c. Price fiv
eighths of n dollar.
14 M'Fingal, Price three eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jelt Book, three fifths of c
dollar.
16. Carden of the Soul, half a dollar.
*7* The Douay Tranjlation of the vulgate Bi-
Jfti, in quarto. Price, e.egantly oound and lettered
50/2---plain, fix dollars.
Said Carey has for sale, a large assortment o)
books■ European as well as American editions
which he will dijpofi of on the mofi reajenabie terms
Country who favor him with commands
may depend upon being Jupplied in the mofi fatisfa:
lory manner. A iberdi allowance to Jucb as pur
thafe quantities for public libraries, or to fell again.
Ma y 17- Gm.ia.w.
FOR SALE,
ABOUT 100,000 acres of Land, lying neai
Whiteftown, in the (late of New-York, or
I'-e worth lide of the Mohawk river, adjoining
Nobleborough, and will be lold either in parcels
or together, as may suit the purchasers.
N. B. Jhe above trait of land is of the firfl
quality in the state, chiefly timbered with beadi
and maple, well watered, and contains many mil
feats. The peculiar advantages of this tract, fuu
ated wiciiin a few miles of */'hiteftown (which
contains.upwards of five thousand inhabitants'
»vith an ealy and convenient water carriage tc
Schene&ady, Albany, and New-York, make it ar
>bje<fl for any persons inciincd to fettle it, and ren
i.er it an extremelv advantageous purchase foi
jerfors irclinec; :<. realize their money in land ol
in encreafing value. The whole tradt or any pari
)f it, wii) be fold very low for cafli, or for pan
:afh, and the remaining payments at distant peri
ls. Enquire at N.>. 229 near the
1 i -market New- York.
July 19.
To be publijhsd by Subjcription,
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER..
OR
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Old
From .Se tembT 1774, to Ma ch 1789 —on au
thentic and original collection of '
Official inciterd fyc.
Written during the late war; —and Ex
tracts from the
J^ournald.
[For particulars, fie the Proposals at large.]
Subscriptions arc received by the piincipal
book fellers, and by the Editor,
JOHN CAREY, L'Jo. 26, Pear-Street, Phila
delphia.
*,* Three handsome Editions of the Laws
of the United e tales fcr sale at this effije
(No. 209 Marketfireet) in folio and o3a
vo, either full or half bound—N.B. The
I.aivs of the lajl Sejfton, in adavo only,
be hadft lar ate, price three eighths of a dollar,
MEW-YORK & PHI-LA DELPHI A STAGES.'
Via Bordenton and Burlington,
And SHREWSBURY & PHILADELPHIA
STAGE,
Via Bordenton,
THE proprietors of the New-York and Phi.
ladelphia land and water Stages bsg leave to
■eut.on, that tor the better accommodation of
partensers, they have thought proper to remove
dmc ,c "t p ,c!te t boats from their former stand,
at tne Crooked Billet wharf, to the wharf or dock
immediately next below Arch-street, from whence
an the firft day of July next, and afterwards, a
convenient packet-boat will start for New-York
!'J t Tuesday, Wednesday
and Ihurlday, and return on every Tuesday,
I hurfday, Friday and Saturday. The passage to
be made either by the way of Bordenton or Bur
lington, each place to be taken alternately. Fare
for passengers from Philadelphia to New-York
15s. —For Goods pr.cwt. 63.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
_ DAVJD WILLIAMSON,
Proprietors of the line of New-York and Phi
ladelphia Stages, by the route of Bordenton.
JACOB MYERS,
AMOS HUTCHIN,
NICHOLAS SCHENK,
• Proprietors of the line of N. York and PhiU
_ delph.a Stages, by the route of Burlington. .
The Shrewlbury Stage will leave Philadelphia"
in the month, o; J\j| v and September, on every
Sunday and Wrdnefda ) t and "return *on every
Tuesday and Friday. j„ the „ 10nth of August,
h will leave Philadelphia on every Sunday and
rhurfday, and return on every Tuesday and Sa
turday. r '
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
Daniel lot,
Proprietors of the Shrewlbury and Philad. Stage.
Border,ten, J u „ e 25, i 7 g 2 .
For freight or pafl'age apply to the mailer's on
bi ard, or to M'KEAN & VAN EMBURGH,
at their store on laid wharf, immediately next be
low Arch-Street ; by uhom orders for (he purcbofc
of all kinas of grain, slaves, or other country pro
duce } are punctually at tended to.
For freight or parage to Lamberton or Tren
ton, alio apply as above.
Pbiladelphia y June 27.
LANDS for SALE,
IN a well fettled Country. SIXTY-FIVE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY- FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in one
body, in the mod populous part of the ({ate of
South.Carolina, in the diitria of Ninety-fix--.lt
is situated in a fine healthy eft lat-.free from fever
& ague,about lixty miles from Columbia, the feat
ol government. Th land is contiguous to the:
town of Cambridge, where are a feminarv for the
inftrudfion of youtn, ln j a superior law court It
is at prelent within .it ut thirty-five miles of good
navigation, with a probability of having the nver,
Glc.lt Saluca that fl. us along one fid-i
of the land, rrtaJe nat -gjble. The land is beauti
fully dive: nfi. J into fv ells and vales, and is per
ieftly well c tru -red for the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and small grain; a great
proportion of it may be made ir.eadovfc ground,
rhe.e is not, I'.-rhn ', such a body of land, focii
cumftanced, for Idle in any other of the U. States.
Ihe terms of pavirt : will bo made convenient to
the purchaser or purchafeis. Apply to the Printer
Auguit 2Q! ' Jawtf
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale by the Printer,
John M'Culloch, at No, i . North Third-
Street, and by most of the Book-
Sfliers in this city,
(Price 3/9)
MODERN CHIVALRY:
Containing the
Adventures or Capt. John Farrago,
and
Teague O'Regan,
his Servant.
volume ii .
By H. 11. BRACKENRIDGE.
Quicquid dgunl Homines, ncjri, Farrago libelli.
JuvenaU
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. O SWALU,
( Price Eleven Pence)
FIVE letters,
addrefitd to the
Yeomanry of the United States: 1
CONIAINING some Observations on the
Scheme o Governor Duer and Mr Secrcta
y Hamilton, to e.'lablilh National Manufadlures ;
by a FARML'R. i'hia pamphlet, fu highly in
serting at this period, may be had at ihe follow
ing places :at . Oswald's Princing-Office, No.
156, Market.fWt ; at No. 209, Market-rtrsot ,
at Mr. Dobfon s, 41, S nth Second-ftteet; ac
Mr. G u!cfhank», 91, M.-.rket'-ftreet; at Mr,
Airk-n's, M trket-ftreef ; and at Mr. Young's
S. W. corner of Ciitinut ana Second-ilreets.
August 21.
;ra *- *r "' ' - •£
PRINTED BY
CHILDS AND SWAINEj
AT"TJ;£TR orrict ji'O* 209, KIGH-STK£ET
N«AR K r PTH- STR EITj
AOl L* ?i!j LVH JA ft