Vol. I.
AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft Sefiion, begun and held ar the city ol
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania
on Monday the twenty-fourth of O&ober, one
thousand ieven hundred and ninety-owe.
An ACT for carrying into effett a Contraß
between the United States 4*4
State of Pennsylvania.
FOR duly conveying to the ftatc o\
Pennsylvania a certain tratt ol
land, the right to the government and
jurifdittion whereof was relinquiftiec
to the said ftatc by a resolution of Con
gress of the fourth day of September,
in the year one thousand seven hun
dred and eighty-eight, and whereof the
right of foil has been fold by virtue ol
a previous resolution of Congress ol
the sixth day of June in the said year ;
Beit enaEledby the Senate and house oj
Representatives of the United States
of America, in Congress affembied, That the
President of the United States be au
thorized, on fulfilment of the terms
flipulated on the part of the state ol
Pennsylvania, to illue letters patent, in
the name and under the seal of the Uni
ted States, granting and conveying tc
the said (late forever the said tra£t oi
land, as the fame was ascertained by a
survey made in pursuance of the reso
lution of Congress of the sixth day oi
June, one thousand seven hundred anc
eighty-eight.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of th<
House of Representatives.
John Adxks, Vice-Prejidtni of ti,<
United States, and Prefideni
of tht Senate.
Approved January the third, 1792.
G. Washington, President of the
United States.
LATE EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE.
FRANCE.
National Legijlati've AJJhnbly, Nov. 2S.
INformation was received, that the municipali
ty of AJais bad discovered that 30 person
were ready to set out for Coblentz, when the]
were flopped by a counter-order from the princes
The leader of the party was apprehended, an<
from his papers it appeared that they were al
receiving the fame pay as the followers of thi
princes at Coblent?.
Ths remaining fifteen millions of afiignats, c
the twenty-five due to the fund of extiaordina
lies, were voted.
The afTembly was informed, that M. Liqui
efki, appointed to negociate with the dey of Al
giers, had executed his mifiion with the greatef
success. The dey received him with distinguish
ed marks of favor, made him (if by his fide, am
that he might feel the full value of an honor ne
ver conferred upon an envoy before, defjred hin
to write to the king, that he had received his en
voy like a friend. He exprefTed his concerns so
the troubles that agitated France, hoped the;
were nearly at an end, and aflured M. Liquie/ki
that he fiiould think no facrifice too much ti
prove his attachment to rhe Frcnch nation am
the king, to whom he also sent a present of thre
horses.
The grand matter of Malta, on the firft intima
tlon of a probable rupture between France am
Algiers had sent out ships to protect the Frencl
merchantman, and to convoy them to their place
of destination, wherever they were found.
M. la Cepede was elected president.
The sum of 1,371,728 livres was voted for th«
bread of the army, and 1,220,960 livres for for
age.
Nov. 29. The decree against the non-juring
clergy was lefumed j and an article, formerly pro
posed by M. Albitte, for allowing them to hin
houses, and perform public worship under the in
/pe&ion of the civil magistrates, was rejetted, or
the ground that clergy and l.ity were equallj
bound to take the oath of fidelity to the conititu
tion, as a qualification to enjoy the rights secured
by it, and that the civic oath was a mere civic
obligation, and had nothing to do with religious
opinions.
The following article was added to the decree,
and the whole 01 dered to be immediately prefent
cd for the royal fandtion :
'* The national chuiches and oratories, ap
pointed for the wor/hip paid for by the state, can
not be employed for any other worship. Thoft
which the administrations shall declare unnecefia
ry for the worihip paid for by the state, may bi
jented or purchased for the exercise of any othei
worship by citizens 5 but this docs not extend tc
By P. FRENEAU: Publijkcd Mondays Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
THURSDAY, February 16, 1792.
priests, who, having refufed to take the cm<
&ath, are declared to be fufpe&ed of evil iriten
tionsagainft their country, and revolt against th'
aws. This decree does not prejudice the right
of the protestants of the confetti n of Augfburgh
who enjoy the free exercise ot their worship in \.U
departments of the Upper and the Lower Rhin?
Doubt, and Jura."
A melTage from the king informed the afiembl
of the appointment of M. Delaflerf, to the foreign,
and M. Cahier de Gerville to the home depart
ment of administration*
M. Deleflart gpve an account of the appli< a
tions made to the twpeior the elcil.i
Treves and Mayence, for the d'fuerfion of th
emigrants, and the hopes of success which ! ma
jelly entertained. He also stated, that his majeft
was going to make such changes in the diploma
tic body, as he trusted would give confidence t
the public, and the negociations for indemnif
ingfuch of the German princes as were deprive
of feudal rights by the revolution, weie to b
pursued with vigour.
The consideration of M. propofi
tion on the measures to be taken at foreign court
with refpeft to the emigrants, was resumed.
It was supported by M. Ifnard, in a fpeec
vhich the aflembly ordered to be printed, and de
:r<ed in the following terms :
" The national adembly decrees, that a deputa
:ion of *4 of its members shall wait upon the kin?
:o communicate to him, in the name of the affcm
&4y, its solicitude on the dangers that threaten th
:ountry, by the perfidious combinations of French
men, armed and embodied without the kingdom
and of those who devise plots within it, or cxcit
the citizens to revolt against the law ; and to de
:lare to the king, that the nation will fee witl
"atisfadlion all wife measures that the king cai
:ake for the purpose of requiring the electors o
Treves and Mayence, and the biihop of Spire
conformably to the rights of nations, to disperse th
alTemblages of French emigrants ; that with th
fame confidencc in the wisdom of such measures
the nation will fee the neceffarv troops afTemble*
to compel those princes to refpedfc the law of na
tions by force of arms, if these alTemblages should
continue ; and finally, that the national assem
bly has thought it its duty, to make this solemn
Jeclaration, to the end that the king may prove
.. vfucttti cumnrfunicjrtrons or thb imprefiive
mealure, to the diet of Ratifbon, and all the
:ourts of Europe, that his intentions, and those
of the French nation, are the fame. 7 *
The fame deputation will represent to the king,
that the afi'embly considers, as one of the molt
efficacious measures to this effect, the speedy
termination of the riegociations for the indemni
ties due to the princes who pofTefied feudal rights
in Alsace. it will likewise stale the necetfity of
making changes in the diplomatic body, th© de
fe&ive organization of which has been the cause
of so many delays.
M. Vaublanc proposed a form of the mefTage
to be presented to the king with the above de
cree, which was adopted.
In the evening fitting, M. Dumas stated, that
:he author of an incendiary paper at Lyons ex
horted the citizens to infurredtion and the murder
if their magittrates. Referred to the executive
>ower.
A number of addrefTes were read, exprefiing
ipprobation of the decree against the emigrants,
ind hopes that the king would be induced, on
nore mature consideration, to fandtion it.
LONDON, Dec. 6.
ExtraSf of a letter from Avigr.on y Nc*v. 15.
€i Peace is again restored to this unhappy coun
ty. The butcher, Jourdan, was apprehended
by Bigonnet the younger, a petfon for whose head
he had offered a reward. In his flight from
Avignon towards Entraigneis, he was pursued by
Bigonnet, with a party of horse. On finding him
felf on the point of being overtaken, he threw
himfelf into the river Sogues, where it was at least
ten feet deep. Bigonnet followed him. He fir
ed a pistol, but miffed, and received a blow on the
breast, which struck him from his horse. The
reft of the pursuers coming up, and plunging also
into the river, he was taken and conduced to A
vignon, where the people were with difficulty re
drained from tearing him in pieces. Peytavia,
Mainville, Tournal, Lecuyer, Raphel, and 18 of
the principal afl'afiins, are also taken."
Extra?} of a letter from Lubeck, Nov. 24.
" From the delay which the EJe&or of Saxony
has manifefted in his acceptance of the hereditary
:hrone of Poland, it is easy to perceive that rhere
|&s been some obstacle in the way, which obfta
:le can proceed from none but the Court of Ruf
-la. They are generally peifuaded at Warsaw,
:hat the Empress is far from content with the
:hanges wrought in the Constitution by the revo
ution of the month of May, a Constitution which
he guaranteed at the time of the partition 3 and
t is thought that Sweden, at present linkeo with
he Cabinet of Peterfburgh, unites in the views
vnich the latter may have with regard to this bu
inefs. It is even supposed that the affairs of Po
and form a particular objedfc of the treaty of al
iance concluded between the two northern Courts,
To far that one of the articles concerns the sup
port of the ancient Constitution of Poland, efpe
:ia!ly the right of choosing a King at every va
cancy of the throne. They remember, on this
jeeafion, the former pretentions of Sweden at the
ixpence of Poland, and the time when those two
ountries bad but one Sovereign. However, he
hat as it may, the Ele&or, of Saxony wishes tc
earn, by means of negotiations, the true meanirg
i*f Tome articles of the Constitution ; which ne
gotiations are afterwards to be followed up bj
others touching the Pacta Conventa. These de
ays, therefore, will come very apropos, and give
he Court of Dresden time to discover the final in
eitions of Russia. In the interim we learn, thai
> oland seeks the support of the Court of Vienna
M. Woyra, its Minister to the Emperor, about «
naftth ago, not only formally notified the change;
«%ich the King and the Republic had though
nroperto make on account of the Constitution o
Poland, but he was at the fame time charged tc
"oHeit the intervention of that Monarch to preveni
?ny neighboring power from opposing those ar
.angements which Poland judged neceflary to en
sure its happiness, and to urge the Ele&or of Sax
ony to accept of a throne ottered to him by a fre<
:tnd independent nation. Hitherto the Court o
Vienna has given no answer to its communica
i*on ; from whence we infer, that that Court is
unwilling to explain itfelf before it has learnt the
intentions of the other Courts with whom it it
connected. In the delicate situation, therefore,
n which the other powers stand with regard tc
Russia, the death of Prince Potemkin is an in
i 'dent, if not of the last importance, at least of a
mature to raise various conje&ures, both as to the
r'ntinuation of the ancient system of the Ruffian
Cabinet, and a change in its political connec
tions. We well know that it was not on the bell
rr. Ms tfith that of Berlin j and the intervention
of the latter in favor of the Porte had very neai
produced a war ; but we are now allured, thai
diredtly after the death of Prince Potemkin waj
r-ade known at Berlin, Col. Bifchoffswerder fei
8* "on a secret commission to Peterfburgh."
A machine fufneiently large to make one ton
m candies per day, without the addition of an)
other u'enfils, than those noi* required in th«
f mmon mode of making them, has lately beer
i i vented fey Mr. William Forbifher, fen. a tal
low-chandler, of Boston, in New-England. A
boy, who has acquired a fufficient knowledge ol
he manufacture, to spread a cotton wick, can,
• om the ease of working, and the neatness oi
)iihing, which appertains to this machine, mak<
o rods of candles per day, with as much fafetj
"a iu uiipat*h a* a journeyman to *viium the htgu
eft wages are paid.
The States of Holland have made a fettlemeni
ifpon the newly-married Hereditary Princels, th«
fifterof her Royal Highness the Duchess of York.
An annuity of 30,800 florins, something lefsthan
15,000!. sterling, has been fettled upon her, and
in a manner thus handsome. The adts of ail the
States, binding themselves to the payment oi
their quota, have been presented to her Highnefc
in gold boxes by deputations from each State.
The province of Holland has also made a prelent
to the Prince of 25,000 florins, and that of Frife
land to the Princess of 6000 ducats. The fever
provinces have fettled upon the Prince an annuity
of 36,000 florins, payable to him till his acceihon tc
the Stadtholderlhip, and then to the Princess foi
hej life. The offices held by the Prince bring him
18,000 florins, annually, and these sums, with his
Epergne, make about 800,000 florins of income
for their HighnefTes, which may be ftatcd at about
75,000!. Engli/h.
Hague, Nov. 30. The Republic have made
overtures for an alliance with the Emperor, foi
which procedure three weighty reasons may be as
signed :
1. The Republic is to discharge the German
troops.
2. Circumstances have made it neceflary tc
fend troops to the Weft-Indies.
3. The Dutch army is so weak, that it is even
inefficient to garrison those places properly,
which it is almost impoflible to leave without gar
risons.
The finances of Holland are in a pitiable state,
nearly as much so as those of France. Thi*
wretched state of them afforded an unanswerable
reafo'n for the discharge of the German troops,
which, to the number of about 5600, cost near
three millions of florins per annum. This great
and inconvenient expence the Republic would
probably have endeavored to sustain, had not these
troops incensed those towns where they were quar
tered, and given cause for frequent complaints
a gain ft them on the part of the Magistrates j to
which is to be added, that the national soldiery,
either through jealousy, or some other motive,
never viewed them in a favorable light. This
discharge of troops at this critical time, whether
voluntary or by compulsion, certainly takes from
rne Republic one cf its principal means of de
fence, and leaves it, as it were, unprote&ed. The
Stadtholder, confldering thtir critical situation, a
bout the end of October obfervea to the States
General, (l that he considered an alliance with
the House of Austria not only as a desirable ob
ject, but as a thing which the unfavorable times
and the force of circumstances rendered indif' en
fable -j that, in consequence, and in executing
his duty, he intreated their High Mightinefles to
take the fubjedt into their confederation, and tc
determine in their wisdom what part they may
think proper to adopt ort the fubjeft." The
States General viewed the fubjedt in the fame
light as the Stadtholder, and accordingly sent ofl
a dispatch to M. Van Haefien, their AmbafTadoi
at the Court of Vienna, to inform him of theii
intention. The affair is begun, and promises tc
fuccec<J. It is, however, that we are no
Numb. 32.
without fear, that the Emperor, although inclin.
Ed 10 comradt this alliance, will previoofly make
ufe'of' ifs and but: ; for it leldom happens, th.it
one Power Connects itfelf with another, merely
lor the honor of prote&ing and defending it.
Another circumstance added weight to the pro
posal which the Stadtholder made to the A/Tem
bly of their High MightinerTes. In the course of
last summer, a correfportdence was discovered be
tween the fugitive patriots and the malecdntents
of Liege and Brabant. Their plan contained val
combinations, ps.-haps profound, but decidedly
alarming. The Stadtholder immediately endea
vored to prevent the evil, by trying quietly to
frufhate the measures of the discontented. He
thought he should succeed, by pointing out to the
fugitives the pofiibility and the means of return
ing to their country. For ihis purpose he applied
to M. Rendoip, a Burgo-mafter at Amsterdam (
who undertook to write to the principal emigrants.
This he did, and the negotiation was begun ; but
ihe pretensions of the patriots were fd unreasona
ble, the conditions upon which they would con
sent to return so as to put an end to
the buftnefs. An aukward circumstance, how.
ever, intervened ! the King of PruUia was in
formed of the negotiation. He soon exprefl'ed hia
surprise to the States General, and exhorted them
maturely to confiJer what they were about, that
they might avoid the imputation oflevity or im
prudence in so feiious an affair. This circum
stance putting a flop to the negotiation, which,
however, is perhaps but suspended, adds much
force to the reasons which may be in favor of an
alliance with Aultria, and which induced th«
Stadrholder to bring ic upon the carpet.
Rome, Nov. 5. Wc have accounts from Na
ples which confirm the fad tidings from Cala
bria, of further damage having been done by
earthquakes in that unfortunate province ; the
towns of Mileto and Monte Leone in particular
have fuffered very much, and the fnocks have
been felt at Meflina.
The Chevalier Onis is set out for France ;
and it is reported he is charged with a commis
sion from this Court to the French Princes at
Coblentz, particularly as their Plenipotentiary,
or at least the gentleman who is looked upon as
such, has had many, conferences with our Mi.
nifter of State.
The Prufiian Minister had a long conference
with our Minister the day before yesterday, said
to be upon the affairs of France.
Lifbtn, 08. 28. Orders have teen sent to
prepare a ship of the line and three frigates to
lail on the firll notice, some fermentations in the
Brazils having made such a disposition neces
sary.
Front Ac Borders of the Rhine, Vet. lg. The
French Princes are preparing vast quantities of
waggons, saddles, &c. The Prince of Hom
bourgh has formally forbid all enlitling of men
in their names in this territory.
Liege, Nov. 24. Our whole city has the ap
peal auce of a catnpi our workmen are employ,
ed night and day in preparing arms and ammuni
tion of all forts for the French Princes.
Stutgard, Nov. 19. We are a fibred that
the Landgrave of Hclfe CafTel, a sworn enemy
to the French Constitution, has concluded a
treaty with the French Princes, by which he
lias lent them a corps of 10,000 or i 5,003
men.
The French emigianls, it is said, have bor
rowed considerable sums at Genoa, on the cre
dit of the King of Spain. They add, that the
Empress of RutTia is about to fend frelh sup
plies of money ; and that she has wrote to the
Emperor of Germany, requeuing him to en
force the treaty of Westphalia against France.
Madrid, Nov, 8. The Court has consented to
receive the new Minister plenipotentiary from
:he King of Moroco. The Regency of Algiers
have greatly lowered in their pecuniary de
mands, and the Spaniards are to evacuate Oran
on the lft of January next.
Frankfort, Nov. 14. The apparent freedom
as the king of France's determinations since his
acceptance of the constitution has wrought a
wonderful change in the minds of various poten
tates in Germany and the Empire, in favour of
the revolution, and has in a great measure damp
ed the hopes of the emigrants. The several
Germanic courts, in their individual capacity,
carefully avoid any fleps that might be construed
into hoftil designs against the present govern
ment in France. The Prince of NafTau, lately
alked leave of the Landgrave of Hefle Darm
stadt to have fix cannon call at his foundery in
Manheim for the use of the French princes;
which was peremptorily refufed. The greatelt
part of the emigrants begin already to fee that
they have beendeluded from their country upon
falfe or precarious grounds. Alfembled in
crowds at Worms, Coblence, and other places, it
is with difficulty they can procure lodgings;—
many of them without money or resources, and
almost destitute of hope itfelf in a country where
provisions are every day becoming scarcer and
d;arer,PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MoknAY, February 13.
Mr. Bourne, of Mafl'achufetts, from ths
committee on enrolled bills, reported, tha'
the comiu ttee did 011 the 1 ith instant, wai
on the President of the United States anc
pre ent for his approbation the bill to ella
blifli the poft-office and poll roads withii
the United States.
A committee was appointed to prepare
and bring in a bill to continile the act, de
claring the assent of Congress to certain ast
of Maryland, Georgia, Rhode-IHand ai:c
Providence Plantations.
The House resumed the consideration o
the bill sent from the Senate, relative to ths
election of a President and Vice-Prefiden
of the United States, and declaring the of
ficer who shall ast as President in cafe of va
cancies in the offices both of President anc
Vice-Prefident. —Upon which, after form
debate, it was resolved that the bill anc
amendments be again recommitted to <
committee of the whole House to-morrow
The House then, in committee of th<
whole, took into further consideration th<
bill for apportioning the repre r entation o
the Inhabitants of the United States—Mr
Smith, of South-Carolina, in the chair.
After some time spent therein the commit
tee rofe,and the chairman reported progrcO
—the fame to be taken into conlideratioi
again to-morrow.
Tuesday, February 14.
Mr. S. Bourne, from the committee o
enrollment, reported tiie clue enrollmeni
of the fiihery bill ; which was then fignec
by the Speaker, and sent to the President o:
the United Stares for his approbation.
Mr. Sterrett, from the committee ap
pointed, reported a bill declaring the affeni
of Congress to a certain ast of the State o.
Maryland, and to an ast to continue in force
certain acts of Maryland, Georgia, anc
Rhode-Ifland —Read twice and made the
order of the day for next Monday.
The house resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole —(Mr. Muhlenberg in tht
chair) —011 the bill relative to the eleftioi
of a President and Vice-Prelident of the
United States, and declaring the officer whc
(hall ast as President in cafe of vacancies ir
the offices both of President and Vice-Pre
fident.
To ascertain the number of electors, ;
variety of amendments were proposed tc
the firft feftion, and being debated, were
withdrawn, or rejected : and at length the
committee agreed to the following :
" which electors shall be
equal to the number of Senators and Re
presentatives, to which the several state:
may, by law, be entitled at the time, wher
the President and Vice-President, thus tc
be chofgn, fliould come into office :—Provi
ded always, that where no apportionment
of Representatives shall have been made af
ter any enumeration, at the time of chufinj
electors, then the number of electors Dial
be according to the exi'ling apportionment
of Senators and Representatives."
The committee then rose and reporter
the bill, with the amendment; and the
House proceeding to consider the fame, anc
a divilion being called for,
The question was taken on the part pre
ceding the proviso, and palfed in the affir
mative ; yeas 29 —nays 21.
Yeas—Messieurs Aflie, Baldwin, Brown
Findly, Gerry, Gregg, Gilman, Griffin
Grove, Heiller, Jacobs, Lee, Macon, Mer
cer, Moore, Murray, Page, Parker, Schoon
maker, J. Smith, I. Smith, Sterrett, Tred
well. Tucker, Venable, Wayne, White
Williamfon, Willis, —29.
Nays—Messieurs Boudinot, S. Bourne
B. Bourne, Clarke, Fitzfimons, Goodhue
Gordon, Hartley, Hillhoufe, Huger, Kitch
ell, Kittera, Laurance, Learned, Liver
more, Niles, W. Smith, Sturges, Sylvester
Vining, Wadfworth—2l.
Mr.Barnwell requested tobeexcufed frcrr
giving his vote ; and was, by general con
jfent, excused accordingly.
The question was then taken on the pro
viso, and also carried ; yeas 27, nays 20
after which the bill was ordered to be reac
a third time to-morrow.
A message was delivered by Mr. Secreta
f ry Otis, informing the House, that the Se
nate had pafled a "bill, for regulating pro
celfes in the courts of the United States,
and providing compensations for the officer:
of the said courts, and for jurors, and wit
nesses. Adjourned.
LEGISLATURE of PENNSYLVANIA,
Tiir following Motion was laid on the ta
ble of the Senate, on Friday last, but i:
not yet decided upon.
Motion of Mr. Smilie, fecondedby Mr. Hoge
That it be resolved, That
WHEREAS the principle of represen
tation has been wifely introduced
into the constitution of free governments
jn order to inspire the public councils with
s great a portion of the lenfe of opinion;
, nd intereib of the community as is conlift
ent in leghlativi business with peace ordei
and deliberation and for the preservation c!
this principle irt a pure and salutary state j
is "heceflary that the representative bodi
(hoi'.ld not oilly be freely chosen but render
ed iijvariably refpouiibie to the conftitueiS
authority of the people And u> here as Re
fponfiblity without an opportunity to ob
serve the conduct of public servants u
compare the atls of government with thj
reafoiis upon which they are founded anf
to develope the motives of the member
individually as well as to pursue the deci
lion of the body mull become a mere founc
delusive to the ear but barren to the hope;
and understanding of freemen.
And whereas Every unnecessary appear ■
ance of myfteryin tranfacling the public af
fairs tends to destroy that confidence in the
people without which the bell political in
stitutions mull: either harden into defpotifn
or moulder into anarchy since the hiftorj
of mankind demonstrates that the fame se
crecy which begets suspicion abroad incite'
ind encourages ambition within.
And whereas It is the right of every citi
zen and the peculiar duty of those who art
n any degree made the guardians of thf
public welfare diligently to examine anc
refolntely to discountenance every fymp
toni of a deviation from the nature anc
principles of the social compact which ha:
been eflablifhed to combine the powers anc
promote the general interest of the Ameri
can states. And whereas The exclufiou o :
citizens from hearing the debates of the
Senate of the United States upon legislative
"übjects appears to be pregnant with the in
conveniences which have been slated anc
cannot be jtftified upon any reafen whict
would not equally juftify an exclusion fron
learing the debates of the other branch oi
Congress, to the utter deftru&ion of eveu
mthentic source of political information.
Therefore and with a view to obtain the
removal of this jurt cause of diflatisfactioj
n the adminiftratiou of a government
which it mud be the wish of every goo*
:itizen to support and improve The Sen
ite of the General Aflembly of the com
monwealth of Pennsylvania after maturt
deliberation have
Resolved Tliat in their opinion it is the
:onftitutional right of the people to atten(
:he debates of their Representatives it
"ongrefs assembled except on the difcuffioi
jf those fubjefts which require secrecy oi
at such times as the Senate of the Unitet
-.tates (hall be engaged in discharging theli
jxecutive functions.
Resolved That the Speaker do tranfiMt
his declaration to the Senators repre
senting the commonwealth in the Senate o
:he United States with an aflurance tha
:his House will regard any exertions whicl
:hey make to give full effect to the princi
jle of the preceding refoludon as an im
service rendered to their corlftj
:uents.
PHILADELPHIA.
February 16, 1792.
" On the 9th inftnnt, (fays aNew-Yofl
>aper of the 14th) thirty-nine gentlemci
rom the northern, middle, and wefterr
ounties attending at Farmer's Hall, in Ha
lover Square, it was resolved, on motion
hatthehon. John Jay, F.fq. befupportec
it the ensuing eletlion, as a candidate foi
he office of governor of the state , anc
hat the hon. Stephen Van Renfelaer, be
upported as Lieutenant"Governor of the
late."
The Bank of New-York have come to are
"olution to take on loan from the state, all th<
inappropiiated monies in the treasury, at fix pe:
:ent. interest ; but it is thought the legislature
vill refufe their assent to the proposition, as ;
nivate company have offered to take whatevei
ums the state do not fubferibe to the new ban!
it an interest of seven per cent, and to transfe:
ix per cents of the United States, asfecuiity.
Advices from Cape Francois, as late as Jin
1. state the price of flour there at fix dollars
dull sale] owing to the sudden arrival of feve
al vessels from different parts of this continen
vith that article. The fleet from France hac
lot yet arrived —the Negro and Mulatto wai
aging almost as violent as ever; andiflaudpro
luce very (carce and dear.
Accounts from Europe, received by late ar
ivals at New-York, inform us that the wintei
ias set in very early, and with uncommor
igour. In the latter end of October and be
ginning of November, vast quantities of snow
lad fallen in various parts of Germanv ; anc
he Elbe, at Hamburgh, had become impratTi
:able for large vessels on the roth of Nov. frotr
he vast quantities of floating ire. In Englanc
ind Scotland (fay the London papers) the win
er was ushered in with violent gales and heavj
ong continued rains, in consequence of whici
he rivers had fwollcn to an un'ufual height
ind inundated the country in their vicinity to;
:onfiderable degree. To this succeeded fndw
which rendered the roads in several parts whol
y impaflable, being upon a level four fee
leep.
Strenuous efforts have been made in Boftor
10 prevail upon the State Legislature, now ir
feflioli, to repeal their ast prohibiting Theatri
cal amnfements; which have fuilcf), owing to
i -e country intered in the Icgifl.ture -underrak
ingto diflate what {halite the proper diversions
for the capital. An unreasonable prejudice o!
the fame kind has had its day in every capital
of ihe United States, but being now generally
overcome, (and very recently in South Carolina)
we may expefl it has made its lad fiand in
Bolton.
The London Weft-Intlia merchants and
planters, alarmed by the late ciifturbances
in the French Weft-India Islands, hive ap
plied to the government for a military force
to protect their interests and pofieffions in
that quarter. The minister, it is said, has
agreed td theif reqiiifirion for an additional
force, part of which, it was thought, would
be sent to Jamaica, and the remainder dis
tributed amongst the F.nglilh windward isl
ands, especially at Dominica, where symp
toms of a negro infurrecHon had appeared.
A letter from Madrid fays, that the
Ffench constitution is already in the hands
of every literary man in Spain; and " the
time is not remote when the graduates of
the colleges in that priest-ridden kingdom,
will sustain a thefts oil the? rights of man,
in the presence of the grand Inquisition."
A representation from the committee for
:he sale of western lands, was read in the
general court of Maflachufetts. on January
[~th; in which it was stated that there
lave been fold since the last fitting of the
general court, about two million, one hun
dred thousand acres of those lands, and that
:here are further applications for upwards
jf two millions of acres more of that valua
3le and fertile country.
Mod of the foreign powers to whom the King
)f France had notified his acceptance of the new
ode of government, have returned answers
hereto, generally in a congratulatory flile. The
infwer of the King of Sardinia, is rather less ex
jreffive of favourable sentiments to ihe new go
'erßment than the others, his M jefty content
ng himfelf with trite profeffions of personal re
gard, wishes for the happiness of his family,
>cc. &c.
On the 17th of Oflober. at a full meeting o!
he Independent Dublin Volunteers at Dublir
al protedants) feveial resolutions paflrd. iend
ng toexprefs their abhorrence of a pubheatior
n which a reward was offered for the conviftior
>f Roman Catholics found under arms in an)
>art of Ireland ; and proposing the repeal of fe
>eral other laws of this kind, which may be cal
ed a disgrace to any legifiaiion.
A late paper, printed at Ratilbonne, in Ger
nanv, has the following paragraph : "It is foll\
o talk of an actual invasion of France, in the
"pring : no such thing is seriously intended, it
inv fl'.ape whatever. The French Cnnflitutior
s here considered rather as a philofophieal trifle
han a political code ; and which may anfwei
?ery well in theo r v, but not in praflice. The
umours of warlike preparations, invasions &c
ire not wiihout design ; being meant to keep the
minds of the French nation in a fiate of anxietv
o oblige them to incur extraordinary and exor
bitant expences, and thus exhaud the kingdom
ill discontent (hall have fomented such division
imongd the people, as to render them an eaf\
Drey without the intervention of foreign affid
ince for that putpofe."
We are informed that the committee o
nland improvements for the State o
S T ew-York, have reported in favour of e
labiilhing two diftinft incorporate bodies
3r«e for the northern and one for the' weft
;rn navigation.
London papers by the latest arrivals in
"brm, that " the Mediterranean fwarni
with cruisers from the different states o:
Barbary, particularly Algiers- Gallic
eem to begetting out offafhion with these
Barbarians, who are now fitted out it
jood velfeh:, mounting from 18 to 40 guns
md manned with desperate renegadoe
: rom all nations.— The fame papers pre
:end, that the Cruisers pay no refpeet tf
my flag but the F.nglifh ; and add, that it i:
:he intention of several nations to form :
unffion of forces in the faring, ou purpose
:o clear the Mediterranean ofthefe unprin
: ipled pests of civilized life and commer
:ial intercourse.
By the lad paeket letters were received frotr
Mr. Wignell, who gives the mod favourable
iccountsof his success in obtaining pei former
for the New Theatre in Philadelphia —artills o
he fiift reputation have also undertaken to flip
ply him with plans and drafts (which will pro
bably arrive by the next vtfTel) for the building
scenery, and decoration-.—The materials are
already bespoke, and part of them deposited or
:he lot adjoining to General Dickenfon's house
in Chefnut-dreet. —The fubferibers 10 this un
dertaking, and the public in general, may, there,
lore, expect, during the ensuing winter, to fee
the Drama in a moie perfefl (late than has hi
thertobeen known in America.
By the lad advices from the Southward th f
Chefapeke is full of drifting ice insomuch as tc
render the navigation extremely hazardous i
not imptaflicable. Considerable damage hai
been done at Hampton Road, and other part:
about the mouth of James River, several vefleh
having been drifted on(hore,orotherwife injured.
The ice, it is said, is continually drifting in
large bodies between the Cap»s, and ever
out to sea, so as to render an approach to the
Chefapeke from Tea not a little dangerous.
On Monday last, Anthony Morrir\
Esq. was elected a Senator to repr -
lent the city and county of Philadel
phia. and the county of Delaware, in
the Legifliture of Pennsylvania, in the
room of the hon. Richard Peters, Esq.
who had reftgned.
Swede.i and Russia. fecm to be the only
:wo powers, that have the cause of the
F'rench princes and emigrants at heart. Xi e .
<ing of Sweden has refufed to receive the
lotificat'on of Louis XVlth, sent to him,
Ignifying his acceptance of the confti
:utiort. The Chevalier de Gauflen. pre
ented the notification, under the title of
juvpy from France, to whom the Swedish
ecretary of state made the following an
wer, on the occasion : " Since the impri
"onment of the king of France, a French
;nvoy is as much unknown here as in Ruf
ia—the Swedish Secretary of Hate does Him
elf the honor, by order of the king, to fend
jack his letter unopened ; and begs leave,
jii the part of his majesty, to decline any
urther correspondence on this fubjeft."
Proposals have been issued for printing
ly subscription, The Whole Works of the
ilev. Dr. John Witherfpoon.---This pub
ication will contain all that is in the
ive duodecimo volumes, formerly publifh
:d in Great-Britain, but now entirely out
>f print, it will also contain a variety of
>hilofophical and miscellaneous tracts,
■vhich have been published in America, ei
her by thernfelvcs, or in periodical col
cctions, with a sequel to thole' left unfi
lifhed, and a few th.it have never yet ap
>eared. There will be added to the hu
norous or fatyrical pieces, especially thoie
hat relate to the state of literature and tl;i
ocal politics of the church of Scotland,
hort notes serving to explain such expref
10ns or allufionr. as may not be quite obvi
ous to an American reader.
It has been already glanced at in 'evf
•al ways and places, and even, in the de
lates of the House of Representative.-,
hat a connexion is established between the
>ankand the government, by having mem
>ers of Congress elected directors of
he bank ; from which it is argued, that an
Kagame may be played, very much to the
nterefl of the bank, and to the no small
langer of secret and corrupt influence,
hrovgh that channel, on the legislative prc
eedings. —The fact being as (fated, ail
hat can be said. against the inference i%
hat the present gentlemen in question, have
to much honor to be personally SuSpected :
vhich may be true, and yet, as others of
different (lamp may succeed, and abuSe
heir opportunity, as they will be very
nuch tempted, for corrupt" ptirpofes, it
hews that there is something riot right in
he business ; and that the bank may
>roduce effects very little apprehend
dby many who agreed to, or have ap
>rovedofit —But the thing which is mors
>articnlarly alarming is this—The public
lebt, is getting fall into foreign hands,
md besides impoverifliing us, will tend to
llend foreign influence, and intermedling
co much in our affairs. This, however,
s not the worst—bank flock is also getting
nto foreign hands ; and, for aught we
mow, the whole, or a greater part of it
nay be bought up by them (for so is the
aw)- nor is it impossible, or rery improba -
ble, that this matter may be promoted
with views of policy by the monied go
vernments of Europe— suppose then it
hould happen, as it seems not impossible
that a majority of votes /hould belong to
foreigners ; will they not (although they
tannotbe directors themselves) be able to
:hufe such dire&ors as will be molf likely
:o make the bank an engine for their politi
:alpurpofes; and ifunder thoSe circuinftan
:es, itfhou'.d be the fafbion to chufe mem
tiers of Congress for directors, may not a
noft alarming channel be opened for let
ting in a Stream of foreign influence into
he very fountain of our laws and mea
ures : and an influence so much the more
to be dreaded, as it may be exerted in so
covert and unseen a manner, as not to
excite the public notice. [Daily Adv.~\
Extrafb of a letterfrom Coblence, Novem
ber 12.
" It is really fickeniug to be in this place,
which seems to be the general resort of
every species of wretchednefi and misery ;
thousands of unfortunate people in a state
nf abject diflrefs. whom the hand of bene
volence finds itfelf unable to relieve. As
if these were not evils enough, the misera
ble emigrants are tormented with jealousy
and felf-love. If one of the French princes
does but whisper in the ear of an emigrant
in the morning, before night he afTume*
airs of consequence, and thus adds to the
mortification of his brethren.—Would to
■ od they were all princes, for these are a
fort of people that never want money,
whereas many of the deluded emigrants
are abfoluteiy pennylefs, ar.d without re
source, except in the charity of anexhauft
ed public, which of all resources is the
mod wretched. —It is dangerous to look
too far forward into futurit l — but omens
Teem rather unfavorable. Whtle tome en
deavor to persuade the emigrants that allEurope is combining fcir th-'r fir-port
others assure them, and indeed the general
tranquility that prevails, is a convincing
proof, that they are upon the point of being
vmiverfally abandoned. On Thursday last.,
the Count d'Artpis had a long conference
with M. de Calonne, which ended in a
quarrel. The latter is about to quit the
emigrants, having acted the part of he Jly
upon the wheel. The Emperor it is certain
v. ill do nothing ; and as to Rtiffia and Swe
den, unless their armies could fly through
the air, it feeni< impracticable for them to
invade France."
Albany papers mcniion that (he port of De
troit, on [he lakes is become the great empori
um ordepofneof (applies of arms, ammunition,
cloathing, liquors, &c. &c. for the weflern In
dians. That a chain of depofites extends from
thence quite down to the Miamee towns, by
means of which the fivages are fupplicd in the
mod ample manner with every thing they
want, and not unfrcquently gratis. " It is
more than probable (fays a letter from Albany )
that a grand league is forming by a power, that
critfelf civilized, with the weflern Indi
ana, out of hatred to and jealousy of Ihe rising
American Empire. Their movements indicate
something extraordinary, and it is high time
we took (bine decifivc both in regard to
Indians and their allies."
Ab "raft of the Proclamation of the King of France,
Published New 12. [From the origina French.)
" His Majesty had long beheld with re
gret the emigration of vast numbers of citi
zens ;• but after taking the proper steps to
preserve the good understanding between
France and foreign powers, and lecure the
frontiers from invasion ; he had thought it
best to adopt mild methods, in refpeft to
the recalling of those men, whom party
spirit and political opinions had baniflied
from their country. —His proclamations,
and other steps he had taken, it was true,
had not produced the whole effect dt fired,
but yet had undeniably been productive of
fomegood, the emigration having visibly
abated, and several individuals returned tc
the kingdom ; whose number he flattered
himfeif would soon increase.—Under the
influence of this hope, he had refufed his
fanftion to a decree of the Afiembiy deter
mining upon severe measures, as incompa
tible with his duty, with the interest of
the nation, and the principles of a free con
ftitution.—lf however, these lenient mea
sures should prove ineffectual, he would
exercise the prerogative he was inverted
with, and ftiffer the law to take its course.
He saw with pain the intentions of the Em
igrants to dilturb the public tranquility of
France, by assembling an armed force on
the frontiers, and preparing to overturn
those laws which he had fanftioned by his
acceptance —strangely indeed must they be
deceived, who suppose the King can have
any other intention than that which he ha;
avowed in the face of the world, and would
make such a fuppolition the basis of their
hopes and their proceedings. The King
gives them a convincing proof of his free
agency, in not assenting to the measures ol
rigour decreed against them ; a proof thai
can neither be contradicted or misunder
stood and to doubt of the sincerity oi
his intentions, when he is at liberty to afl
as hepleafes, would be injurious in the ex
treme. —His Majelty cannot fufficiently re
gret the disorders of the Kingdom, andfoi
some time part had entertained hopes thai
fear alone wai the cause of emigration—the emi
grants now have no right to talk of the
troubles of France, since they themselves,
by their absence, their plots, aud their ma
noeuvres, seem to be the principal cause ol
the remaining diforder.s. Let them noi
affect, therefore, to lament the neglect ot
infringement of the laws fmce they (the
emigrants) set the example of disobedi
ence, and refufe to acknowledge the com ■
bined will of the nation and of the king, tc
be of any weight. Iso government can
exist if the wills of the individuals compo
fmg it do not acquiesce in the public will.
This is the bafi c of all social order and the
security of all rights—The constitution
has, indeed, deltroyed titles and diftinfti
ons, but does not prohibit those who once
pofl'efl'ed them from seeking the new
means of influence and honour, which 11
has pointed out. Why do they not ther
return to their country, re-possess theii
property, and ast like good fubjefts and
promoters of the public welfare ?—Let
them reject their visionary projects, at
once hostile to reafonand duty, as well a;
to private and public emolument.—Re
member, it is your king that invites you .to
return ; who promises you peace, fafety
and the protection of that law, of which he
is the supreme adminillrator. He has re
ceived the mort marked proofs of the con
fidence of the nation, to whom he is in:e
parably connected, and therefore engages
your fafety, in their name. Return, then,
immediately ; it is the wish of your king, it
is tile wish of the nation—but at the fame
time, remember, that this fame king who
now speaks to you like a father, is deter
mined to fee tho e laws obeyed, the exe
cution of which is entrulted to him, —and
that if his remonstrances and persuasions
prove fruitlefs, he will adopt every measure
In liis power to prevent you from blindl;
facrificing yorufelves to the obstinacy oi
opinion, disturbing the quiet of your fel
low-citizens, and destroying the happinef
of your country."
Here follows the answer (in substance'
figiied, in behalf of the Emigrants, bj
the Marquis de Laqueuelle.]
" Your faithful fnbjefts have not aban
doned their country without reason : V out
mobility have seen themselves perfecutec
vith the mod unrelenting barbarity, theii
■dates wafted, and their castles destroyed.
Several have been murdered, and all have
liore or less experienced the rage of a po
mlace, led astray by incendiaries, whe
lave seized upon your lawful authority.—
What would you have us do ?—defend our
"elves?— Not at all. —You have set us i
ontrary example, and the French nobilitj
lave ever modelled themselves upon theii
lings. It was our wish, that the capital oi
France should not be made the prison o!
:he best of sovereigns.—We cannot obe)
:he proclamation which your goaiers have
compelled you to sign, as they also did the
;hing, called the constitution, in which the
lat'.onal power and religion are alike at
:acked by usurpers and infidels. Let their
-eftore to us our laws, our property, oui
-eligion, and our king, and we will return
:o be the ornament and support of an em
pire, the date of whose origin is 1400 years
We lament your fltuation, Sire, furroundee
?y people who have brought the kingdon
:o the eve of famine and bankruptcy. Wl
"ympathize with you in all your troubles
which we should only increase instead o:
jiminifhing by complying with the terms o
the proclamation you have signed. — Oui
Dftates — our property, mull be destroyed—
t is no matter ! —our firm and steady con
iuct shall be the salvation of both your ho
lor and our own. The time approache:
fact when your Noblesse shall re-entei
he kingdom, headed by your august bro
hers ; order (hall then be re-established
md in presenting you with an unsullied
throne,we (hall give you the surest proof
as our obedience, love, and veneration.'
Baltimore, Feb. 7.
In the course of the year 179 1, there ar
ived at the port of Baltimore as follows---
>8 (hips and barques, 159 fuows and brigs
;4 schooners, 45 (loops, and 3-0 coasters
naking in the whole, 746 veflels enterec
it the custom-house. There have beer
:leared out 387 for foreign ports, and 662
oafters, making in all 1049 veflels .
The tonnage employed 1756J foreign---
\meric?.n 27,289, in all 44,854 tons, exclu
ive of the coasters.
Exported— 208,087 barrels flour, 1023 c
>arrels, and 6,232 kegs bread ; 256,881 1-2
jufhels corn ; 1-2 do wheat : 10
M 5 hogsheads tobacco ; 3-4 tons bar iron
1307 tons of pig iron, 2631 barrels herrings
ind2oiß calks flaxfeed—ln the yejr
:he quantity of flour brought to this mar
set, did not exceed 10,000 barrels.
FRANCE.
Aufever of Monjieur and the Count D'Artois to th
Utters written by the King, to engage them t
return into France ; and Louis Stamjlaus Xa
vier's Renunciation of his rigid to the Crown.
"Sire, our Brother and Lord,
Yf UR letters of the nth inft. have reachei
is, and we hasten to answer tliem. We lay a
he ftet of your majefly the refpe&ful attentioi
and inviolable attachment hich we (hall neve
:eafe to have for your augufl person. Why cai
we not express to you perl'onally the regret whic!
ivc feel in being obliged to live Jar from you
Why is it not poflible for us to partake the grie
:o which ferocious and cruel men have for a Ion;
:ime past condemned you ? Ah, never (hall w
orget the bloody scenes to which your eyes hav
iecn more than once condemned ! V. hat vi&im
lave not been on the brink of being murdcrei
ind iacrificed to this phantom of liberty am
equality, which is endeavored in vain to be efta
jlilhed in our unhappy country.
" By your letters, Sire, you engage us to sol
ow your example, in conforming to the Conlli
:ution, which you have accepted. You fay tha
his Constitution is the wi,. of the people. Ah
3ire, believe it not ; they may have been deceiv
:d for some time, this people which we cherish a
much as you, they may have thought that th
l onftitKtion would have caused their happiness
)ut they now fee their error ; they fee that the;
lave only changed their legitimate Sovereign so
houfands of despotic usurpers, for fadtious met
>f intrigue, who seek only to eftabliih their for
une, on the people's iuiu,and to fatten at the ex
lence of the purest of their blood.
" Yes, Sire, could we have the individual wifl
> every Frenchman, be persuaded that the ma
ority would be against the new order of things
Then ycu might fee how much you are deceived
3oubtlefs we desire the peace anil happiness o
France, but is our presence necefTary for the fafetj
ind felicity of the State ? Can we be forced to in
labit a eoun'ry governed in your name, byfeoun
Irels who pillage it ? Can we be forced to g<
where we must submit to laws deftrudHve of th<
:rue ones —ofthofe transmitted by our anceflors
>f those laws which have at all times made France
the most fiourifhing of kingdoms, and the Frencl
thehappieft of people 1 Mull we go to submit our
selves to decrees forged by the crew of Jacobir
Robbers? Ah! could we rather withdraw youfron:
the terrible effeQs of their embroiled rage.
You will take care, S; e, you fcy, that all tfc<
French, who re-enter the kingdom, Aral
peaceably enjoy the rights which the law allure
to them.
Ah ! Sire, even at the moment that you wen
made to frace those lines, your moll faithful sub
C-dfs-wejje purfutd and murdered. At Caen, a;
Rennes,'at I.Uriel, &c. frefh crimes were commit
ted. On all Cdes the poinard was whett: d, anc
poifous prepared for your brave Noblcffe, tht
invincible support of Monarchy.
Miniftcrs of the Altar faithful to tbeii
true religion, were every where pelfecuted; anc
every where they wifli to make them apoflates
In the middle of Paris.itfelf, under th very wall;
of the palace you inhabit, and which you woulc
persuade us, is no longer your pri'on ; in a word
in the heart even of this pretended National Ai
fembly, Regicides are conspiring againfl yourfell
perhaps, and against all the Royal Family, I hej
would fee the throne fall before the axe of Re
publicanism. They are sapping its foundations
ih.aken jjjd almost ruined by the Aflembly callec
conflicting.
" Has not 'his pretended National Aflembly
jufl decrped the lenience of death against youi
own brothers ? His it not had the inhumanity
to bring this execrable sentence to you to sign i
The Moulders well knew that you wonld not figr
it. They waited for your refutal. A veto, faic
they, will prove in appearance the liberty of tht
King, fct us then forge a decree which will o
blige him to give his veto. We will argue frou
thence that he is free, since he may oppose tht
execution of a law, which we will fay, is the wifl
ofalmoftall Fiance; but, Sire, none of voui
faithful fubjetts is the dupe of this infernal lira
tagem, and all these manoeuvres cannot impost
upon thi)fe who fee and feel your tiue fnuatioi
physical and moral. We have alieady said ir
another place to your Majefly, and we repeat it
" that the ufufiuftory tenant of the throne, whicl
you have inherited from your ancestors, you can
not alienate its primordial right, noi fufter tht
conflitutive basis on which it is fixed to be de
frayed. The Defender of Religion, you can
not abandon its Ministers to disgrace and op
predion, the Dispenser of Jutlice to your fub
jefts, you cannot have renounced the eflcntiall;
royal furflion ofcaufing it to be adminiflered b\
tribunals legally constituted. The p oteclor o
the Rights of ail Orders, you ought not to fuf
fer them to be deflroyed by the most terrible o
opprcflions.
" If the guilt which besets you, and the vio
lence which has so long tied your hands, do noi
permit you at present to fulfil these sacred du
ties, they ought, nevertheless, to be engraven or
your heart, in indelible characters. Sire, yoi
ought never to forget them.
" Forced to fay that you are free, we canno
believe it, till we fee your people returned tc
their du'y, and your troops under your orders
We vibH>bey, Si e, you' true by re.
fiQing extorted prohibitions, or oiders ; we fhal
befureof your approbation, by following the
laws of honor.
" Such, Sire, will always be our true senti
ments ; it' we thought thtit our prefer.ee wa:
ufeful to your Mujeftv, nothing (hould Hay us
and we would be seen to flv loyou with the ar
dor of brothers, who cherilh you as a brother
and refpeft you as their King ; but we thinl
our ablence much moie uleful 10 your perlon.
and to those of your fubjetts who have remainec
faithful 10 you. And believe, Sire, that tht
number is happily Hill very cor fiderable.
" Should we, if there exists a power which ha;
the authontv to deprive us of it—Pnould we loft
the rights which we have to the Crown, ar.d we
sincerely wish it may never be in our power tc
claim ihofe rights, we would not be less invaria
ble in the sentiments exprt IT-d in this letter, and
diftatcd by the moll inviolable honor, and at
tachment to your sacred person.
" We are, Sire, our B.oiher and Lord,
" The mod humble and mofl oberient Servants,
" And fubjefts of vonr Majesty,
" LOUIS STANISLAS XAVIER,
"CHARLES PHILIPPE."
The Palace o Shontui njlujl
near CoMcntz, l\ov. 14, 1791.
Paris, Nov. 22.—M. Gower, British
ambaffkdor at this capital, has received ve
ry disagreeable news from India, brought
by the French frigate Medusa, just arrived
from the Isle of France. By the fame ves
sel M. Dufrefne, governor of Pondicherry
writes thus : " Lord Cornwallis, having
advanced with his aimy to within eight
leagues of Serringapatniim, was attacked
on the 15th of May by Tippoo Saib, and
obliged to retreat towards Bangalore, with
the loss of about 500 of his European troops,
a vast number of Seapoys, many pieces oi
cannon, &c- and it was owing only to the
firmnefs and exertions of the Mahrattas,
that he was not harrafied on his retreat."
There are great fears at present in England
left this expedition should in the event, re
ferable the famous capture of his lordship
in Virginia. In consequence of this idea,
the Eait-India Company's funds have fuf
fered acoufiderable (hock, having fallen to
8 per cent.--No pains have been spared in
London to propagate accounts of adiiferent
nature, in order to support their credit.
Another account mentions that Tippoo and
Lord Cornwallis were negociating a treaty
of peace. Tliisisdated Pondicherry, June
22.
Nov. 1 J —M. Charles Lameth, member
of the late national aflembly, has signalized
himfelf by a memorable ast of heroism.
During the whole feflton of the conftitu
ting afllmbly, the ariftocatic noblefie were
continually infi.ilCing and challeng'ng him.
His conftaut reply was, that "he would
give them an answer, the moment hi per
son became inviolable *'—At thediffolution
of the conftitutiug aflembly, these fame no
b'.eue, who had in the mean time gradually
.m'grated to Worms, Coblence, &c. sent
h'm word that " they expected him to
keep his promise.and that both partie might
have a fair cha ice, they would meet him
on the frontier." M. Lametlid cinothefi
tate a moment, and instantly set out, at
tended by his brothers, and a few
friends. When they were arrived on the
frontier, M. Lameth sent information
thereof to the challengers, letting them
know that he had obeyed their fummcms. —
They replied, that " he was not far enough
advanced, and infilled upon his comii.g
nigher the line of reparation.'' Upon this
Lameth and his companions went to a vil
lage precisely on the line, and sent the aris
tocrats word, " he was there ready to meet
:hem. "--Not expecting such a bold defiance,
:hey declined the combat .M. Lameth ha
ving in vain waited for them, returned to
[lie capital, much praised by those who
Tiake it a point of honor to answer chal
lenges, but blamed by those who think the
aw above all obligations of honor.
PRICE or STOCKS.
Six per cents, per £. - £4/7
Three per cents, - . 14/ S.
Deferred fix per cents, - -15/-
Final Settlements - 22/",
Indents, ... 'j/4- '4f'
Bank Stock 1-2 Shires 103, pr. ct. prem.
Somerset County, Maryland, Princess Anne
T own.
TEN P 0 UND S RE W A R D.
RAN away, a Negro lad about seventeen
| years old, who left the fubferiber
[bmetime in August last. He goes by the
same of Lkve\ ; is of a yellowish colour,
and about five feet high. He is supposed
to have gone to the Delaware (late. Any
perlbn bringing the said negro to the fub
fcr.'ber, (hall be entitled to the above re
ward ; and any person giving such infor
mation as will enable the owner to reco
ver h;m again, shall be entitled to one half
the above sum, which will be paid by
Thomas Miles.
Feb, 14, 1792 • st. 1 aw.
Dijlncl of Pcnnjylvania, to wit :
BE it rcnttnkrfd. That on the fourteenth
day of February, in the iixteenth year
of the independence of the United States
of America, H. H. Brackenridge, of
the said diftrirt, hath deposited in this of
fice, the title of a Book, the right whereof
he claims as author, in the words follow
ing, to wit: Modern Chivalry, contain
ing the adventures of Captain John FARRAGO,
and Teague O'RegAn, his servant ;
volume firft—By H. H. BrAckenridge.
Quicquid agunt homines, no/In, farrago Libelii.—
Juvenal. In conformity to the aft'of
the Congress of the United States, entitled,
*' An ast for the encouragement of learn
ing, by securing the copies of maps, charts,
and books, to the authors and proprietors
of such copies, during the times therein
mentioned.
Samuel Caldwell, Clerk of the.
DiJlriß of Pennfy'ivania.
JuJl puilified, and to be fold by the Printer,
J. M-C U L L O C H,
No, 1 N. Third-street,
and at most of the Book-fores in this city,
MODERN CHIVALRY:
CONTAINING THE
ADVENTURES
Captain J O H N F A R R A G O,
T E A G U E O'R E G A N
HIS SERVANT.
VOLUME I.
By H. H. BRACKENRIDGE.
Quic_ uid agunt homines, noflri, farrago libelii.
Juvenal.
WANTED, to go to a healthy flourilhing
town in New-Jerfev, a DISTILLER
that can . e recommended for knowledge and a
bilitiesin his profeffion, as well as sobriety and
general Any person, so qu li
fted, will meet with the moll generous encou
ragement. The works are entirely prepared for
the distillation • f grain, and the person engaging
will be put into immediate employ.—Enquire of
:he Editor of this paper, at No. 239 Maiket
ilreet, or at 58 North FiEth-flreet.
Feb. 6. law. tf.
A few Copies of the REPORT of
the Secretary of the Treasury, of the
6th infi. on the PUBLIC DEBT,
may be had at this Office.Lir.eswritten at St. Catharine's Jland, on thecca/
of Georgia, Nov. 1789.
HE that would wish to rove a while
In forelts green and gay,
T rom Charlelton bar to Catharine's isle
Might ligh to find the way !
What lceaes on every fide appear,
What rapture llrikes the mind,
t rom Folly's train, thus wandering far,
"jo leave the world behind.
The miific of these lavage grove ;
Infimple accents fsvells.
And freely, here, their sylvan loves
The feather'd nation tells ;
The panting deer through mingled shades
Of oaks forever green
The vegetable world invades,
That Ikirts the watry scene.
Thou sailor now exploring far
The broad Atlantic wave,
Crowd all your canvas, gallant tar,
Since Neptune never gave
On barren seas so fine a view
As here delights the eye.
Cay, verdant scenes that Nature drew
In colours from the iky.
Ye western winds! awhile delay
To swell the expecting fail—
Who would not here, a hermit, stray
In yonder fragant vale.
Could he engage, what few can find,
That coy, unwilling guest
(All avarice banilh'd from the mind)
Contentment, in the breast !
SrMBAT.
LEGISLATURE of the UNITED STATE!
House of Ritrfscntativis.
Friday Feb. 3.
Continuation of tbt Debute on the CoJ ry Bill—
The IlcuJe in committee of tie whole.
Mr. Gerry. The state of MalTachufett'
a!k; nothing more, than equal justice. We
do not come forward, to request favor:
from the United States : we only wish, thai
the l ime fyitern, which is applied toother
parti of the union, may be applied to us.
i>ut in examining this queltion, we will
that gentlemen would not make diftinc
tionwhich will not admit of a difference.
The proposed allowance has been called
a bounty on occupation, and is said to be
very different from that encouragement,
which is the incidental result of a general
commercial system :—but in reality it is no
bounty. A bounty is a grant, made with
out any cou;,deration whatever, as as
equivalent ; and I have no idea of a boun
ty, which admits of receiving from the
person, on whom it is conferred, the
amount of what is granted. We have
impqfed a duty on fait, and thereby draw
a certain sum of money from the filhermer
—the drawback is, in all inltances, the
air.ou it of the money received : this is al'
we alk ■ and we alii it for a set of men.
who are as well entitled to the regard ol
government, as any other class of citizens.
It has been supposed that the allowance
made to the fifnermen, will amount to <
gre ter sum, than the drawbacks on the
exportation of the filh ; but I think it ha
betn clearly Ihewn, that this will not be
the cafe : on the contrary, it is presuma
ble, that the drawback on the filh wouli
0:1 the whole exceed the sum, which is propo
fed to be allowed to the fifliermen : some
times it might be more, sometimes less.
_ The calculation is made on general prin
ciples ; and it is impossible to calculate tc
a single cent : the quantity of fait, to be
expended on the filh, cannot be minutelj
ascertained : but this was not heretofore
considered as a fufficient reason, why Con
gress (hould refufe to allow the drawback:
they allowed it, though in a different Ihape.
It is now proposed to make a further com
mutation gentlemen call this a bount)
on occupation 5 but is there any propor
tion made for paying to the fifliermen, 01
to other persons concerned in the filhery
any fuins, which we have not previouflj
received from them ? if this were the cafe,
it would indeed be a bounty: but if we
beforehand receive from them, as much a:
the allowance amounts to, there is no boun
ty granted at all.
If however it really was a bounty on oc
cupation, it would after all be only an in
dulgence similar to what has been grantee
to the landed and agricultural interest
We have laid on hemp a duty of 54 cent:
per hundred weight; and 011 beer, ale, and
porter, five cents per gallon. Now I aik
gentlemen, whether the profefled design oi
these duties was to raise a revenue, or tc
prevent the importation of those articles:
they were laid for no other purpose, that
to prevent foreigners from importing them,
and thereby to encourage our own manu
factures ; —and was not that encourage
ment a bounty to the persons concerned in
producing such articles in this country ?
—If the duties had not been laid, the im
porter could fell much cheaper, than he
now can ; and the landed interest would
be under a necessity of felling cheaper in
proportion —If those prohibitory duties
operate as a bounty in favor of railing
hemp, & of brewing beer, ale, and porter, I
all;, whether, if a bouncy were proposed on
every qu n al oftifh it might not, with the
fame propriety be granted ? If we have not
a right to grant a bounty in the one cafe we
have as little right to grant it in the other.
A calculation has been offered to frew that the
proposed allowance will exceed the amount of the
prefeni drawbacks, by io,coo dollars 3 year, but
that calculation ha? been proved to be erroneous:
suppose however that this was the fa£i, what Com
parison is there between such a tax on citizen]
of the United States, and the tax borne !>y the ci
tizens of Maftac hofetts, lor the ce fence of the
western Irontier ?—A commercial war is waged a
gainst the American fifheries, by foreign nations
who lay heavy duties on the American fc/h, and
apply the produce of thole duties in bounties t<
their own fifliermen ; and their beinj
left exicn'rve than ours, the duty thus imp ;fed cr
our fifli, dnd bestowed in bouuties to their vessels
operate in a two-foid proportion to the discourage
ment of our fiihermen, and the encouragement u
theirs.
I w;lh to know on what principle gentlemer
can exped, that the citizens of Mafl'achufeit:
liiould contribute 200,000 dollars, or perhaps i
greater sum, for the protection of the western fron
tier againlt the Indians, when no contribution i:
made to support the commerce of Malfachuletts
which, without thU support, will be as etie&uallj
ruined, as if their veflels were captured by an ene
my.—The principle is carried farther with re.
fpeft to the protection of the frontier : we havi
voted large funis, as presents to the lavages, tt
keep them friendly to the frontier settlers : ther<
is however no clause in the constitution, (that wil
authorise a rneafure of this kind : it is true, in
iced, we have a power to regulate trade and con)
merer with the Indian tribes : but does that giv<
js a power to render the United States tributary
to the lavages ? and if we make them such grant
svery year, do we not in fa€t become tributarv t<
hem ?
The gentleman from Virginia [Mr. Giles"
Tays, although this plan of encouraging the fifhc'
ies may be wife policy in Britain, a? being on as
lues surrounded by the sea, yet the United State
vill not equally find their account in purfuin;
he fame plan. The state of Virginia is, in poin
>fexpofure from the sea, very differently circuit)-
lanced from the state of Maflachufetts : wi> havi
1 valt extent of country, 450 miles of fe*-coaft
rxpofed : —The citizens of ail the alons
he coast are obliged to pursue marine occupa
ions J and I hope ihe gentleman d<- es not wifl
hat the country Ihouid be depopulated, and th<
nhabitants driven off t» lettle the wtftern territo
)'•
The state of Virginia is very hip-ily« e'reum
lanced with refpeft to a marine war :—fhoule
uch an event take place, that state is pretty fc
:ure from depredations : but when we confide
low much the inhabitants of Malf-chufetts ar<
rxpofed in a cafe of that kind, we ought to looJ.
orward, and make some provision for their de.
ence : they have as good a *ight to expect, tha
;overnme*t will make some arrangernents so
their protedlion, as that they ihall be obliged t<
:ontribute for the defence of the western fioniier
But, their commerce, it seems, must not be sup.
>ortea ! taxes however must be laid ; and thof<
axvs applied to encourage the farmer], and t<
>xibe the Indians into peace ! . . . . Isjhis fair
s this pursuing a liberal l'yftem of politics ? wil
his reconcile the minds ofourpeople »o gene
al government ? If so reasonable a proportion bi
ejedled by the House, it will convi-nce the citizen
at that state, that it is theobjeft of government t<
ieftroy their commerce, and to make them en
:irely dependant on the agricultural interest-
Here Mr. Gerry rtad a statement, to shew th<
diminution of revenue in consequence of the fail
ure of the filheries : and added,
To support thefifhery, is to support the reve
nue ; by that staple, the citizens of Mafiachufett!
are enabled to pay the revenue that is expe&ec
from them j and, by an attempt to fan 10,00 c
dollars, government will probably facrificc. ?oo,coc
---and, besides, lose the confidence of the citizen:
of that state.
The only question now 15, whether this be a di
re& bounty, or simply a commutation of the al
lowance already granted by Congress ? If the lat
ter be the cafe, 1 can fee no reason, why we fhoulc
refufe our aflent to a proportion, which is onlj
calculated to do justice to the people concerned,
and to give encouragement to a very importani
branch, which stands in need of the support of go.
vernment, more than any other branch in theU.
nited States ; especially as the proposition will e
ven have a tendency to encreafe the revenue.
Mr. Goodhue. Some gentlemen, who arc
athcrwife not averse to the principles of the bill
ask, why this money which is intended to be
allowed to the fitliermen, as a drawback for the
duty on fait, cannot as well be paid to the own
ers of the filTiing vessels, and by them paid to the
fiihermen, without being particularly arpexed tr
the tonnage r—lf this mode were adopted, we
would then be obliged to depend on the oath o:
the owner of each veflel, for the quantify of si fli
taken, and of fait used in the vessels ; and this
would open a wide door for fraud. But here we
have the quantity of filh taken in a year, and
the tonnage of the vessels employed j and we have
apportioned the sum to the tonnage, so as not tc
exceed the sums which government now pays or
an average, one year with another. It is true,
ibat if the fifhermen take a smaller quantity ol
fifh, government will have to pay more in the
bounties than they would in the diawback ; but,
r>n the other hand, if a greater quantity of fi/b be
taken, the bounty will be less in propv>rtion. It ij
not easy to deviJe a rule, that will better secure
the revenue, than this wiil : it would be impro
per to appeal to the owner's oath, for the quan
tity of fifh taken by his velTel during the year :
but the regulations in the bill exclude the polfi
bility of fraud—the veflels being beforehand
mealured, and having their tonnage afrertained
our own officers, and a license being required
besides. We do not come forward under the idea
>f receiving a bounty—there is no bounty in the
:afe : that is merely a word used to exj-refs the
ame idea that is already admitted.
Mr. Williamfon. It lias been urged with
jreat propriety in favor of the bill now submitted
:o our consideration, that the operations ps our
?.\Y3 should in all cases tend to encourage ufeful
nduftry : that wl.iie ve are givirg l ac!; t:c!u
ies on ail other foreign goods which are export
d, it would be unjuit and cruel ro refufe a lull
flwback of the duties on (alt which may be
exported, especially w hen the circumstances of its
fcxpoitation, are attended *with an immensity of
riches and strength to the nation. Imprefi'ed as
I am with the force ot these argument?, and de
'nous as J an> to protedt and encourage the na
tive leamen or America by all prudfrnr, pra&ica
b e, and conlfitutional means, 1 (hall neverthe
eh rind it my duty to vote for striking out the
firft legion of the bill, because ii proposes to
a bounty for the encouragement of vefTels
employed in the fifheries.
We have been cold that the name is improper j
■ hat it is limply a drawback of the duty upon
'alt, and gentlemen have produced a very ingeni
uis calculation, by which they attempt to prove,
that in Tome years it may happen, thar the whole
■ uty on lilt will not be-repaid ; but they admit
that on some years, the draw back or bounty will
xceed the duty. It is their opinion,
and in this we are peifec\ly that the mo
ney to be paid will be more than that received,
else there had been no ulc for so large an appro
priation. We ihail not trouble the committee
with calculations on this fubjedh It is conceded
hat the encouragement to be given probablv will
xceed the full drawback of the duty on fait. In
other words a douceur or a proper bounty is to be
uiven—let us call it one thou/and dollars per an
num. Is it within the poweisof this Congress to
grant bounties ? I think nor, and on this single
poll - ion, I would reft the argument.
In the cortfliturion of this government there are
two or three remarkable provisions which seem tfl
be i i point. It is provided that direct taxes
lTiail be apportioned among the several ftar?s ac
cording to their refpe&ive numbers." It is alf,
provided that " all duties, imposts, and excises
fliail be uniform throughout the United States : v
and it is provided that no preference ftiall b<* giver
by any regulation of commerce rev enue to th<
ports of one state over thole of an ther. Th<
clear and obvious intention of the articles men
timed was, that Congress might not have th«
power of imposing unequal ..burthens—that il
might not be in their power to gratify one pari
of the union by oppretiing another. It appeared
pollibie and not very improbable, that the timt
might come, when by greater cohesion, by more
unanimity, by more addrcfc, the representative:
of one part of the union might attempt to impofc
unequal taxes, or to relieve their co«ftituents at
the expence of the people. To prevent the pofli
bility of such a combination, the article; that J
have mentioned were injerted in the constitution.
Suppose a poll tax should be attempted, Tuppoft
it fliould be enabled that every poll in the ealterr
states ill all pay a tax of half a dollar, and ever)
poll in the southern states should pay a tax of one
dollar—Do you think we should pay the tax «
No, certainly. We fh .uld plead the constitution,
and tell you that the law was impotent and void.
But we have been toju chat Congress may give
bounties for ufeful purpoles j that is co fay, they
may give bounties for all imaginable purposes.
becaule rhe fame majority thai votes the bou ntv
will not fail to call the purpose a good one. Efta
b'ifh the dodtrine of bounties and let us Tee what
may follow. Uniform taxes are laid to raiTc
money—and that money is distributed——not uni
formly j the whole of it may be given to people
i'i one end of the Union. Could we fay in such
a cafe that the tax had been uniform—l think
not. There is certainly a majority in this House
w.ha think that the nation would be lironger and
more independent, if all our labor was performed
by free men. This object might be promoted by
a bounty. Let a poll tax be laid according to the
Constitution, of one dollar per poll j in this cafe
sixty cents must be paid for each Have, and the
number of Haves being 68c,i86, their tax would
amount to 334,911 dollars. To encourage the
labor of citizens, let Congress then give an an
nual bounty of one dollar to every freeman who
is a mechanic, or who labors in the field. We
might be told that the bounty was finall, and the
objedl was good, but the measure would be mofl
opprefiive, for it would be a clear tax of rather
more than three hundred thousand dollars on the
southern states.
Perhaps the cafe I have put is too ftrnng. Con
gress can never do a thing that is so palpably un
just, but this, Sir, is the very mark at which the
theory of bounties seems to point. The certain
operation of that measure is the oppreffton of the
southern (iates, by superior number* in the north
ern interest. This was to be feared at the for
mation of this government, and you find many
articles in the Constitution, beside those I have
quoted, which were certainly intended to guard
us against the dangerous bias of interest and the
power of numbers. Wherefore was it provided
that no duty Avail be laid upon exports ? Was it
not to defend the great ftaole of the southern
states—tobacco, rice, and indigo, from the opera
tion of unequal regulation of commerce, or une
qual indiiett taxes ; as another article had de
fended us from unequal dire£l taxes.
I do not hazard much in faying that the present
Constitution had never been adopted, without
those preliminary guards in the Constitution.
Establish the general dottrine of bounties, and all
the provisions I have mentioned become useless.
They vanifli into air, and like the baseless fabric
of a fifion,Jeave not a trace behind. The com
mon defence and general welfare, in the hands
of a good politician, may supersede every part of
>ur Constitution, and leave us in the hands of
time and chance. Manufactures in general are
ufeful to the nation, they promote the public good
and general welfare : how many of them are spring
ing up in the northern states ? Let them be pro
perly iupported by bounties, and you will find ro
occasion for unequal taxes. The tax may be e
qual in the beginning, it will be fufliciently un
equal in the end.
Mr. Wi llratnfon, We are told that a nursery
>f leamen may be of great use to the nation, and
:he bounty proposed is a very Tmall one. TheTe,
Sir, are the reaTons why 1 have marked this as a
langerous bill: the most dangerous innovations are
i>ade uader theTe circumstance*. To begin with a
jreat bounty would be imprudent, and ts give a
mall bounty f.r a douMJefi ptfrpofr, might de
f-rve a worse epithet. Half a million of dollar<l
)er annum would have been too much for a be
ginning, and perhaps a bounty on the ule of"
leighs, though they are convenient for travelling
n winter 5 or a bounty on stone fences thougli
hey are durable, would not at this time be pru
lent. Ihe ohjecV of the bounty and the amoun'
>f it, are equally to be dilregarded in the prefen''
afe : we are simply toconfider whether bounties
nay fafely be given under the present conftituti »n 5
or myfelf, 1 would rather bfg n with a bounty 01
ne million per annum, than one thouland j 1
vilh that my constituents may know, whether
hey are to put any confidence in that paper call*
d the Conftirution.
You will fuft'er me to fay, that the. southern
lates have much to fear from the progrels ofthi#
:overnment, unless your (length is governed bv
>rudence : the operation of the funding fylten ,
)as translated at least two millions of dollars, from
he southern states, that is to fay, from Georgia,
he Caiolinas, and Virginia, to the northern
fates. The interest of that sum, when it shall
>e fix per cent will be 120,000 dollars ; but
he quota of thole states, is at least one third o£
he v.hole j whence it fallows, that they mull
>ay forty thousand dollars every year, in the f;:rm
>f interest to the northern States.* This, itfef •
s not fuflicient, and other measures are to be a
lopted for draining the southern dates. Bod
ies to promote the genera! welfare, are alreacy
jrought forward j wc ilia 11 not hear of a bounty
or raising rice, or preparing naval stores. If that
vas the question, the general welfare woold not
lave such prominent features. Ur.lef? the fouth
•m States are prore<f>ed by the conftituriou, their
'aluable staple and their vifinnary wealth, must
>ccafion their deftruciion. Three fhortvears has
his government exiftea j it is not three years, but
we have already given ferio»>s alarms to- many of
»ur fellow citizens ; eftablifii the dodlrineof noun
ies : set aside that part of the conltitution, which
equires equal taxes, and demand similar diftri
)utions ; d«ftroy this barrier, aud it is not a few
ilhermen that will enter, claiming ten or twelve
houfand dollars 5 but ail manner of perfons—-aeo
)le of every trade and occupation may enter at the
jreach until they have eaten up the bread of our
:hildren.
Perhaps I have viewed this pr<-»jr& In too feil
ius a light, but if ] am particularly solicitous, on
he fubjedt of finance, that we do not even feern
0 depart from the fjririt of the constitution, it is
»ecaufe ] wi/h that the union may be
J'he several states are now pietty wi-11 reli;ved from
he;r debts, and our fellow citizens in the fo»th
•rr. dates, have very little interest in the national
unds : press them a little with unequal taxes,
ind the remedy is plain.
While I would jhun bountie?, as leading to
Jangerous measures, I am rot inattentive to every
argument that has been advanced by the honora
ble member who firft rose in defence of the bill.
1 bat gentleman te'ls ui, that more than a bushel
>f fait is i)fed in curing a quintal of fifh. If this
adt be eflabli/hed, the former a& should be a
nended by giving a greater drawback. He lays,
he drawback as ir is now paid to the merchant,
Joes not operate so as to encourage the seamen
vho have most need of such afiift-ance. This is
ftry probable, and the parties may be relieved by
iividing the drawback in the very manner pro
>oled in the bill. It it is true that the proposed
counties, will not exceed the average of the draw
jack that should be paid on fait, why do they con*
end about names, unless they are solicitous a
>out the precedent. If our obiedt is to encourage
nduftrv, and to increase our commerce, by fend
ng fjfh to a foreign market, we must adhere
o a drawback j for according to the terms of the
>ill, the bounty is to be paid, though every fifh
hat i" caught should be consumed in the country j
n which cafe we fhouid be paying a visionary
Irawback, when nothing was exported ; according
o the terms of the bill, there is no proportion be
wecn the labor and the reward, so far as the bank
iihery is concerned—the bounty in all cases be
ng the fame.
Having exercised patience in objefKng to
nis new lyftem of bounties, and having hinted on
ome objedions to the general operation of the
>•11, so lar as induftrv and enterprize, may be
j ] fhalJ, in a few words, submit the out
ine of a plan that seems to comprehend all the
ifrful parts of the bill, without any speculation
jpon bounties.
If the drawback en dried fifti exported, is not
qual to the duty on the lalt uled in curing such
ifh, let the drawback be encreafed to eleven cent*
>r twelve cents, as the cafe may be. Let us fup
>ofe that the drawback for the next year, will be
qual to the drawback on the lalt year j and Jet
hat fjm of money, being the expected drawback,
>e divided between the leamen and owners accord
ng to the terms of the bill j the accounts must be
nade up annually. If the drawback exceeds the
Jlowance that had been made, the aifference will
►e considered as advanced to the fifliery, and the
illowance for the next year mult be lomewhat re
luced according to the actual amount of the
Irawback. If the fiftiermen are more fortunate
>r more a&ive, and the exports are increased, the
illowance for the next year must be raised. The
ule being fixed by law, all that remains beir |
>ure calculation, may be done from year to y •
>y the executive. Every important objed of this
>il! that has b;en prelented to our view, n.ay be
>btained by fafe and constitutional steps. Why
nould a man take a dangerous and a doubtful
>ath, when a fafe one pretents itfelf ? If nothing
nore is desired than to regulate and protest the
iihery, the bill may be altered and accommodated
0 that purpose : if the theory of bounties is so
3e eftahlifhed, by which the southern states must
ufter while others gain ; the bill informs us what
nz are tu expec*.
[To be continued.]
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND SWAINE,
AT TH EIR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIGH-STREET,
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA.