Vol. I.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE. ,
uin invejligation of the Causes, which pro
duce th; Bilious and Remittent Fevers.
Addrefled to the Medical Sbcicty of
Delaware State.
| ~ Continued from out loft and j
Sec.3. T SHALL endeavour to prove
X upon the principles of induc
tive reasoning, that the ejfetls relulting
from the combined operations of the
causes of the second fe£lion, arc the caul
es which produce thole fevers fpecified
above.—lt is a position I believe in me
dicine univerfaliy granted, that the liv
ing existence is supported by the con
stant operation of certain causes adting
on a certain principle of life inherent in
animals.*—lt is alio granted that the
human body is continually tending to
putrefa&ionf ; it ;s consequently always
undergoing a change, and in the course
(if seven years, according to Mr. Locke,
the, human body fullers a total changej.
I conceive that these different {fates
tnay be influenced materially by a total
or partial privation, or by an excellive
application of caules, for it is proved
(from facts indisputable) that the living
principle may soon be cxhaufted, by the
constant application of excelfive llimu
]i ; and alio, that life may be prolonged
by theadminiflration of the proper kinds
of stimuli.
Hence it seems that this principle of
life inherent in animals, (called by Dr.
Brown the excitability) is the fulcrum
upon which the beam of health turns, and
from a flrifl observance of the weight at
the end of the lever, we might ascertain
to a mathematical exa&ncfs, on which
fide the deficiency lies ; therefore the
avenue to the clear perception of truth,
appears to be opened, and the aid of the
fk.ilful physician might with undoubted
certaintv soon reflore the equilibrium
of health.
It has been cbferved in the Jirjl feClion,
that twenty-seven parts of dephlogiftica
ted and Jeventy-three parts of mephitic
air, compose the atmosphere. Itihould
have been added, when the mercury in
the thermometer stands at 63 it would
constitute a natural healthy atmosphere,
wh:n uninfluenced by aay hurtful pow
ers —but as the accumulation ot the
matter of fire raises the mercury in the
thermometer, above that healthy tempe
rature just fpecified, the air is propor
tionally rarefied, consequently the ex
ceffiveheat flimulatesthe human fyflem,
directly in that ratio to its degree, and
produces a kind of indirect debility, in
the latitude 40 N. fitnilar to that debili
ty produced by excessive fatigue, but in
certain situations nearer the equator,
the confcquences refuhing from the ac
cumulation of the rays of heat from the
Sun, appear to be greater.
Dr. Lind observes, in " Port Maho,
near the island <sf Rathian, fhipsliein
a bason of water so environed with high
mountains, that the wind can have no
access to them. The flagnant air thence
becomes so unwholefome,that men after
being there a few days, are suddenly
seized with violent vomitings, head
achs, delirium, &c. and in two or three
days more the dissolved mass of blood
issues from every " Doflors
Macbride, Boifien, and Pearfon, con
clude,that a light atmosphere will hasten
putrefaction, and a heavy one will retard
it; from this they conclude that put re
faflion is more rapid in large cities than
in the country||" From these fails and
observations, we should, I prcfume, be
juflifiable in inferring, that heat when
applied to the human body (in propor
tion to its degree above 63) produces
* See Dr. Brown's Elements of Medicine.
+ See Crawford on animal heat, (3c.
J See Locke on Identity.
§ See Dr. Lind on hot climates, p. 116.
|| See the Medical Commentaries, vol. 11.
f>. 144 and 145.
By P. FRENEAU: Mondays W Thursdays, Three Dollars
"ometimes a kind of indirect debility dif
ferent from that indirect debility which
constitutes aftital difeafc, and sometimes
produces actual disease from its excef
live indirect effects different from that
indirect debility which may be restored
:>y the (alutary effects of profound sleep.
' In thole situations on the globe men
tioned above, where the balance of the
atmosphere is aeftroyed, either from the
accumulation of the matter of fire alone,
or from the circumstances attendant
thereon, mentioned in the second head of
Sell. 2, it renders the air inefficient from
its directly debilitating effects, to sup
port animal health||, and lively combul
tion, &C.H which a natural atmosphere
would produce; hence, this destruc
tion of the dephlogifticated principle of
the atmosphere, acting as a directly de
ailitating power, on the indirect debility
already efiablifhed in the animal fibre,
in consequence of the excessive stimula
ting power of heat : These causes acting
in conjunction with the debilitating
power of moisture, constitute a kind of
debility, denominated by Dr. Brown a
mixed debility, and which I conceive,
lays the foundation of bilious and re
mittent fevers.
Moisture is water in a state of vapour
diffufed through the atmosphere. It
serves as a great condi:ftor of heat and
of electricity,and supports these substan
ces equally diffuled. Hence we fee
those people who inhabit the foggy si
tuations, complain much of chilliness,
of languor.and of debility ; unfortunate
ly this moisture is not a direst conse
quence of the accumulation of the ca
loric principle or matter of fire in the
atmosphere, but an indireftconfequence,
(owing to certain circumstances) other
wise it would in some aieafure counter
act the debilitating effects of heat, by
partially converting it into a latent or
quiescent state. That moisture is a
great conductor of heat, and of courlc a
directly debilitating power, has been
clearly proved by experiments in the
Torricellian Vacuum*.
Also that a moist atmosphere serves
asacondufting medium for electricity is
proved by facts indifputable,forindamp,
moist weather, the electrician is generally
baffled in attempting to collect the eled
tric fluid+ : it is alio observed by phi
losophers, that in those moist regions of
the earth, at the time of the existing
foggs, there is very little lightning and
thunder, supposing it serves as a medi
um through which the electric matter
passes from the earth to the atmosphere,
and vice verja.
May not moisture fervc as a powei
to convert partially the matter of fire
derived from the Sun into a latent state,
thereby depriving it of its necelfary sti
mulus, to excite into action the diffufed
electric fluid J, which electric fluid, when
concentrated, might restore in some de
gree the balance of the atmosphere, by
converting the different airs into new
substances, as nitrous acid, vol. alkali.
&c. and thereby obviating in an emi
nent degree, those diseases which af
flict the inhabitantsin the different situ
ations fpecified above.
May not moijlure prove the cause ol
those fevers in another way, independ
ent of its being a conductor of heat and
of electricity ? For as inflammable aii
is generated under the circumstance;
mentioned in Sect. 11, and from its great
levity ascends in the day time together
with the insensible exhalation from the
earth, but when the rays of the Sun are
subducted, this insensible exhalation is
condensed into dews ar.d fogs, and
from its fpecific gravity in those new
|| See Mr. Goodwin on respiration.
T See Crawford on animal heat and com
bujlion.
* See the ner< experiments upon Heat by
colonel fir Benjamin Thcmpfon Knt. F.K.S.
in th.ePhihfophical Transactions. vol. Ixxvi,
+ See Cavalo, Franklin and others.
t See Viscount Mahon on Electricity.
M O N D A Y, June 4, 1792.
forms, it descends and repels before it,
down to the furface of the earth, the
great volume of inflammable air ; for
it is inconteftibly proved bv tlx experi
ments of Richard Kirwan, F. R. S. that
water and inflammable air will not unite
even by Hence this may
perhaps relblvc many phenomena at
tending the evening air in different cli
mates and the rcafon why it is more
pernicious to health than the morning
air.
When the temperature of the air sud
denly changes from many degrees above
to many below 63 degrees of Farenheit's
thermometer, it may then I conceive
prove an exciting cause of thole diicaf
es. if indirect debility is already efla
blifhed in the animal fibre ; but it there
is only a predisposition to indirect debi
lity, it will prove a remedy in reducing
the excessive excitement, and restore
the body to its healthy point ; if the
cold increases gradually it changes the
type of those fevers : I therefore pre
sume that cold is not generally, but may
at times prove an accidental cause, for
it is very seldom in this latitude, that
the temperature of the evening air, at
the season of the year in which these epi
demics prevail, is below 63 degrees.
If these facts and observations which
I have adduced should fufficiently efta
alifh firm and just premises, and if
the reasons that 1 have offered be com
pletely indu&ive of thejuftnefs of their
eonfequcnces, they will I presume fatis
factorily explain the causes of the bilious
and remittent fevers, for " no more cau
ses of natural things ought to be admit
ted than are true and lufficient to ex
p'ain the phenomena." How then can
we admit into the causes of the bilious
and remittent fevets, the celebrated marjh
miasma, a iubftance fiti generis, a sub
stance that has never been proved ana
lytically or synthetically to exist. This
miasma is supposed by some to be animal
cula or organic bodies, by others, inor
ganic or corpuscular fubltances. Let
us then survey with oneglance this fub
jeft ana the arguments which have been
adduced and place to our imagination
those causes on a f nailer scale ; for exam
ple, placc a vegetable in a finall velfel
fubjeft to all the causes and circumflan
ces above enumerated : let us then ana
lyle the atmosphere that surrounds this
lubfcance, after fermentation, and the
new produced matter resulting from
fermentation, and comparatively eiti
mate them with those consequences
flowing from like causes and like circum
stances on the larger scale, and fee in
what degree the results differ.
From our knowledge of the compo
nent parts of the atmosphere, and of the
properties of vegetable matter ; from
our complete knowledge of the effetts
of heat and of moisture on those sub
stances and the effetls flowing there
from, I amjullified, I presume, in deny
ing (but with all deference due to the
opinions of the great fathers of physic)
the exigence of marfli miafma —If marjh
miasma is not to be found here where
shall it be fought for P Is it to be found
in the imagination of its votaries ?
Let me recommend with submission
to the Dogmatists in this doftiine to
publish amanifefto and then resign.
§ See Philosophical TranfaElions, vol 72.
Philadelphia, May 25, 1792.
. - .. ~ L
IH 1 "D'H'lf M.
" T HATE that drum's discordant found.
Parading round, and round, and round ;
To thoughtless youth it pleasure yielos,
And lures frcm cities and from fields
To fell their liberty for charms
Of tawdry lace and glittering arirs :
And when ambition's voice command',
To fight, and fall in foreign lands.
I hate that drum's discordant found,
Parading round, and round, an/J rounc*,
To me it talks ot ravag'd plains, ,
And burning towns, and ruinVi swains,
And mangled limbs, and dying giroans,
And widows' tears and orphans' moan»;
And all that Misery's hand bestows,
To lwtll the lift gf human wces 1"
Numb. 63.
AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft Session, begun and lie!J at the city of
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania,
on Monday the twenty-fourth of October, ons
thoufacd l'even hundred and ninety-one.
r*-
An ACT authorizing the grant and Convey*
ance of certain Lands to John Clevis
Symmes, and his Associates.
BE it enabled by the Senate and HoufeoJ
Keprefentatives of the United States of
America, in Congress Ajfembled, That the
President of the United States be and
he hereby is authorized and empower
:d to issue letters patent in the name and
inder the leal of the United States,
hereby granting and conveying to John
Jleves Symmes and his associates, and to
heir heirs and assigns, in fee, simple,
uch number of acres of land as the pay
ncnts already made by the ibid John
Aleves Symmes, his agents or aifociates,
mder their contrail of the fifteenth day
>f October one thousand seven hun
dred and eighty-eight, will pay for, cfhi
nating the lands at two thirds of a dol
ar per acre, and making the referva
ions fpecified in the said contract.
And be it further enabled, That the Pre
"ldent be and he hereby further au-»
ihorized and empowered, by letters pa
:cnt as aforefaid, to grant and convey
o the laid John Cleves Symmes avl
lis all'ociates, and to their heirs and af
igns in fee simple, one other tract of
3ne hundred and fix thousand eight
lundred and fifty seven acres, with the
efeivations as aforefaid:—Provided,
That the said John Cleves Symmes, or
lis agents or alfociates, or any of them,
hall deliver to the Secretary of the
I'reafury, within fix months, warrants
.vhich iifuedfor army bounty rights fuf
icient for that purpose, according to
he provision of the resolves of Congress
>f the twenty third of July, and second
jf October, ooe thousand seven hun
lred and eighty seven ; but in cafe, so
nany warrants Ihould not be delivered,
hen the letters patent last aforefaid to
>e given for such number of acres, as
hall be in proportion to the warrants
o delivered.
And be it further enabled, That the
'resident be and he is hereby authorized
ind empowered, by letters patent as a
orefaid, to grant and convey unto the
aid John Cleves Symmes and his affb
,-iates, their heirs and assigns, in trust
or the purpose of eltablifhing an aca
demy and other public schools and fe-
Tiinaries of learning, one compleat
ownfhip, conformably to an order of
Congress of the second of Odtober, one
houland seven hundred and eighty-fe
/en, made in consequence of the appli
cation of the said John Cleves Symmes,
or the purchase of the tract aforefaid.
And be it further enacled, That the fe«
quantities of land, to be granted
and conveyed as aforefaid, (hall be in
:luded and located within such limits
ind lines of boundary, as the President
may judge expedient, agreeable to an
ict parted the twelfth c'ay of April one
ifioufand seven hundred and ninety-two,
' for ascertaining the bounds of a tract
}f land purchased by John Cleves
Symmes."
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of the.
Iloufe of Representatives.
Richard Henry Lee, President
pro tempore of the Senate»
Approved, May fifth, 1792.'
G.WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.Omii.;>iatux tf ti,e »:rf impip la; , FOREIGN
NEWS, by tlit late arrwnhJ. om iuropc.
March 24 —April 3.
Paris, March .4. A decree this day tin
nnimoufly palled the pa onal assembly thai
tne mulattoes {Hid iree negroesin the Welt
India Colonies ought to enjoy the rights oi
eclive chizens in the fame manner as the
white*—Colonial affernblies and municipa
lities to be eJfc&ed according to prefcribet'
farm-.—a a equality of political rights to lie
groeS and' mulattoes, a right to vote in all
tleftoral , eniblie , and eligible to all pla
ces, under certain prefcribecl qualifications;
three civil comniiflioners to be appointed
tor St. Domingo, Martinique, Guadaloupe,
St. Lucia, ar.d Tobago ; with authority to
•JiiTolve or fnfpend the prelent colonial af
femblfes, and fend them to France ; to call
<>:it the public force as often as they {hall
think proper, &c. several other powers
are to be conferred upon the commissioners,
Avho are to be nominated by the king.
Copenhagen, March 2,5. The Royal Resolu
tion has now finally palled in Defflnark,
tiiat from the commencement of 1804 the
Have trade (hall bttentirely abolifiied in the
Danifli polleffions in the E.&W. Indies.This
measure appears at once to unite wil'doM
and humanity ; it aboliflies a trallic founded
in injustice and fnpported by cruelt)', but
in allowing the space of ten years to inter
vene, observes the necellary moderation
and precaution, and prevents thole evil
conferences which might refidt from an
outrageous zeai, and precipitate condnfton
such an occnfion.
London, March 27. A mellMger has been
recently dil'patcjied to Rome by order ot
the Empress of Russia, with an answer to
thepopc':, address relative to theFrenchfti
zure of Avignon, and the Conitatde Vena
iffiir. 11 iaiai'd, (he promifi* Iris pontifical
Holiness to do all in hen power to restore
to' him wlratrie has been deprived ox by the
new government of France.
The new king of Hungary has made a
declaration, importing, that the situation of
tilings would not permit him to enter into
the views of the German Princes, relative
to the recovery of their rights in Lorraine
and Alsace; and refilling to interfere in any
respect in the affairs of France, or affording
affiilance to the French Emigrants. In
consequence of this declaration, the troops
who were upon the march towardsthe fron
tiers, have received orders to return.
A commercial treaty has lately been re
newed between the Empress of Russia and
the Ciiinefe. This trade is carried Oil by land
from Feterlburgh.Mofcow, &c. to Pekin,
by mean; of Caravans which traverse the
vast continent of Europe and, Asia, and
rarely perform the w hole immsufe jour
ney to and from in iefs than three years.—
The balance of this trade, in favour of
Russia, is estimated at four millions of rou
bles, a year.
Francis ill, king of Hungsry, and succes
sor of Leopold 2d. in the imperial dignity,
gives but finall hopes of long lite, being
fnbjeft to a debility of constitution which
renders it improper for him to make any
violent exertion either of body or mind.
In such circumstances little is to be expec
ted from his government. The greater
part of the management of governmental
affairs, it is thought, w ill devolve to the
Dowager, his mother.
The successor of the Emperor has already
fignifyed to the king of Prilflia his intention
oi" adhering to the agreements entered up
on in the conference at Pilnitz. His, fen
thnentswith respect to Frencii affairs are
yet dubious ; some have affirmed that
he is attached to the old fyfleni of defpo
til'm, and others that he has expressed hnn
feifin a manner which precludes all hopes
of his interference in favour of the emi
grants.
In consequence of the death of the Em
peror, and the character of his successor,
a considerable accession of influence wi 1 be
derived to the king of Prussia, who nriy
henceforth be expecled to take a leading
part in the affairs of Germany.
Catharine the 2d. Empress of Ru.lia, whose
ambition and enterprising spirit leems to
be very little repressed by the infirmities
of age, has probably some great object
Hill in view—Wiiilft almoit tottering on the
brink of the grave, she looks eagerly for
ward to aggrandizement; and though her
successes in the late war. and the advanta
ges Hie obtained, might have fufficiently
flattered her vanity, (he meditates new en
terprises w tic'n perhajw (he will never live
to fee carried into execution. If we can
credit report (lie prppofes, in conjunction
with Sweden, to iiave a powerful fleet
soon afloat in the Baltic ; and has already
advanced to his Swediih majesty a consi
derable fuin of money, by way of fubiidy,
to enable him to cooperate with her in this
design. What this exactly is, we are not
•informed ; but when we consider the pre
sent critical situation of Europe ; and how
r.irich the powers of sovereigns have been
(liajcen by foirte late event?, we may readily
conjecture tfett they relate to the affairs ot
Poland, or to those of France, and perhaps
even to both. Catharine h;.n long shewn
an aversion to the progress of liberty. The
"privileges grarited to the peafaot: in Poland
by the new ebnftSt-.itioc of that country,
may extend, and incite her own fubje&t ro
claim like indulgencies. Example i
powerful and may llere operate in a 'man
ner far from agfeeableto a despotic prince.
1 his file seem.-; to be aware of, and no doubt
wishes to counteract its effect . Tllat her
feitrs are awakened, may bo ea'ily collect
ed from the proclamation which f!ie ha.
lately ifi'ued. After stating' tte dreadful
of fnbjefls oppoling the go
vernrnentof their ruler'!, file tells her;, that
' these.bad eilefts have been displayed, in a|
' fatal manner, in a kingdom once celebra
' ted for its prosperity, but now for its mis
-1 fortunes. Political evils, continue!? (lie,
' combined with a fyflem of speculative
' philosophy, have overturned the ancient
' order of things to erect in its stead an or
' der founded on principles inconlilt
ent with tile necefikies opa great social and
' political body. The consequence i , that a
' nation once the richell and moltflourifhing
'in the world, whpn fubjeft to the authority
' of a monarch, is fallen into poverty, dif
' credit and contempt; and with difficulty
' exifh; under the preflure of numerous ca
lamities. What a terrifying exampi e to|
' die nation ■, of the earth, and efpeciaily to
' those who are indebted to their sovereigns
' for the prosperity of their situation
' peace, eternal concord, and the relpeft of
' foreign nations 1"
The misunderstandings between the
Dutch colony at the Cape of Good-Hope
and the mother country are becoming worse
than ever. —The Causes of complaint
on the part of the colony are, the recal of
thepopular governor, Vangrave ; the trans
ferring the garrison to the defence of some
of the Aliatic poflelfions of the States; and
the declared intention of the Stadtholder's
Court to fend commissioners to examine
and punifii those who have been active in
promoting dill'entioiis. —They have de
manded that taxes Humid be discretionary,
and all pecuniary aids such as they fiiall
think proper to fix upon, other wife they
would repel force by force. The deputy
g owrnor had been obliged to retire into a
fort, which he was putting into a (fate of
defence.
Never was a mofe mortifying answer,
than that given to Sir K. Ainflie, Britilh
imbafl'ador at Conttantinople, by the
Turkifn Grand Vizir, on the proposed in
:crferenceand mediation of England, in the
ate war between Rullia and tlie Porte.—
This answer was read in thehoul'e of com
mons on the 29th of February—The na
tional and moral charafier of the English
s therein treated with the utmost severity
—they being represented as a race of sy
cophants and inifers—worlhippers of mo
ney—believers neither in Cod, nor his Son
whom they pretend to worihip—haters of
truth and virtue—faithlefsto engagements
—no religion but gain—avarice their only
God - anil the christian faith a mask for hy
pocrisy, &c. fee.
J)r. Prieflly, as one of the fufierers by
:he late riots in Birmingham, attended the
Warwick affir.es, a few daysiince, to prove
lis claims on that county for indemnifica
tion. As soon as the populace of War
wick were apprized of his arrival, they
;ollefted and used him in the mod indig
nant manner—Hones and dirt were thrown
it him, and nothing that resentment could
lift ate was uneflayed to mortify and dif
:refs him.-—--In this instance, it is feared,
religion will have a crack at philosophy's hones.
1 here are many symptoms in this coun
try of a speedy return to barbarism, and
there is little doubt, that the years are not
rar involved in the depths of time that will
again fee England "/ copied with wolves, her
fid inhabitants ;" if that is not already the
cafe, under various cloaks and disguises.—
A mofl curious weaving factory, at Man
chester, where the whole process was car
ried on by machinery, has been burnt to
the ground on the of March, by cer
tain persons who are inimical to oil manu
factures on such principles.—Two hundred
guineas reward are oliered for the perpe
trators.
Painting and poetry have been called sis
ter arts : But, if one might judge from
the last wills and teftamenis of. their r'e
fpe&ive favorites, they have no manner of
connexion—No poet, from Homer to this
day ever left legacies at all to be compared
to those observable in Sir Jolhua Reynold's
will.--Ten thousand pounds to Mrs. Gwat
kin—two thousand ditto to Miss Rey
nolds—to Edmund Burke 20001. more !
See. See. This is indeed enough to laugh
poetry out of countenance 1
The political characters of both the Ab
be Raynal and Mr. Neckar, seem to be
fuffering a good deal, from the preient
French revolution- There are some men
who can only engage in great events at an
immense diftante, and. as it were, in the
back-ground of futurity. The Abbe, seven
teen years ago, thought rationally with re
fpeft to the equal iiberties of man ; but
when he found the event had overtaken
him, he 'lapsed into aristocracy, and be
came the nerveless (lave of childish terrors.
In Neckar, we fee a penetrating philoso
phical minti' duped by the advocates of re
ligiou, fupa Mlition and impoiture. The
clei'gy found him too great a man not to
be drawn ocr to their fide, and therefore
acfonipKHictl then - !•;;! ■ f; ronn
neras thev formerly did with Suyle, Cocke,
Newto.l, Addifori, See. in En !. id. A
layman advocating fhperftit'.v, is always
a choice ntorfelibr the cleigy-.-liut what
are we to think or Air. T>eckar, when he
declares himielt a friend to the reiloration
<>i ch ■ old clergy >n France on the following
principle i— " The petjantry of* France ((aid
he) arc miserable, and mojl necejjunly be infera
ble ; by de.'troying the iiititKMice ot' the cie: gy
and the tenets they inculcated, the nation
al ailembly have taken away all that these
poor people had lefr to support them under
their iri'Xery--thtbLjjings of religious confutation,
and the hopes of a better hereafter I
The two following paragraphs are tr (inflated from
the Linden Gazttte.
" Such is the temper of the people of
France at this time, that both republicans
ai d arit'ocrats seem alike regardless of the
dreadful consequences of civil commotions.
1 he motto of both is—Succejs attend our cauj'e,
and no matter for the rejl. —; he republican
thermometer, however, feenis not to high as
tiiat of the {ticklers for the old government,
'j hefe are every where fomenting internal
troubles, principally by means of the
prieitr, who are always, on such occalions,
the iuiiruments of popular deception ; and
upon these deltrufhve agents, the counter
revolutionifts re£t their principal liopes of
success."
" It is pretended here (at Leyden) by
some, that only the meanest kind of paper
is made in America, and not a fulliciency
of a tolerable quality to supply even the
demand for their newspapers —But the re
port of the Philadelphia manufacturing so
ciety states the number of paper-mills, in
Pennsylvania only, to be forty eight. The
treasury of the United States and the Ame
rican banks make use of 110 other paper,
even of the finelt kinds, than <Vhat is made
in their own country, and expressly for
thofepurpofes.—An aftonilhing number of
books is now printed in America; and
great quantities of paper-hangings are ma
nufactured in Boston, New-Je; ley, and
Philadelphia; —From the article of paper,
let us pal's to that of rum. Some w ill have
it that the Americ; is must at all times de
pend upon tile Brmlh illands for their prin
cipal lupply.—Let us fee—From the pre
fentltate of this traffic, it appears, that if
the whole mass of spirituous liquors con
sumed in the United .States, was to be di
vided into 132 parts (including thofediftil
led in the country J the molali'es imported
would furnifh lixty of these parts, the rum,
and other liquor?, from the Britllh, Daniih,
and otjier islands, thirty-seven ; and the
spirits distilled from fruits and gra':n in the
United States, thirty-five. '1 he rum im
ported from the Well-Indies confiitutes
about one-fourth part of all the ardent spi
rits consumed in the United States, or re
exported to foreign countries. But it is
not probable this will long continue to
be the cafe, the diltiljation of grain and
fruits increasing prodigiously in America.
Should the Britilh government refufe to
admit any longer the tiour and corn of the
United Slates into their illands, as is pro
poled, America can ealily do herfelf juitice
by encouraging lief own home dHtilleries,
and importing no more foreign spirits. Great
Britain, which does not produce a super
abundance of grain for ner own and her
W.lndia colonies' use, nevertheless brews
up and diftills J4 millions of bulliel:', yeariy;
so that it is not likely the Americans will
throw away their surplus of grain rather
than diftilit into liquors."
WE the fubferibers, weavers of the
city of Philadelphia, attended this
clay, Tliurfday May 24th, at Mr. Pearce's
cotton manufactory No. 13 Penn street, to
view his machinery ; moll of us are Eu
ropeans, and do all agree, that his abilities
in mechanism are superior to any we ever
saw, especially in his double loom, in which
une man can weave two pieces at the fame
time, 42 Inches wide, with equal facility
to one piece in the common loom; this
ufefullooni when examined appears limple,
the art of working it soon attained, and
the extra expence very small ; his machines
for carding and roping are excellent,, and
all the reflof the utenlils prepar'd for the
buflnefs are contriv'd with ;'/eat judgment,
the whele of which we liope will soon
come into general use, and be found of great
ut'd.ty in tne United States.
George Storey William Waclfwerth,
Francis Storey John Kel/y,
Hercules 0' Co/mor John Fletcher,
David Napier All', n Mc Cay,
William Waddle Thomas liobifon,
John Maxwell Ijaac Reighly,
James Dairugh,
*** The above being intended for a pub
lic good, it is requetted the Printers of the
newspapers will inlert it throughout the
United States.
Subscribers to the National Gazette, who
wifli lo ha*e thtir papers IVnt bv any other con
veyance than the public mail, are delired to no
tify the fame to the editor (their letters on this
fubjeffto be polt-oaid by theixilcKcs.)
PKILADE L P H I A.
JUNE 4, 1792.
The H<r.i. Tristram DAlton is ap-<
pointed Calhier of the Mint of the United
States.
By accounts from Weft-Florida, the su
gar cane is contemplated in that province
as a confidei able object of cultivation, for.
which the foil and cl.mate is f.iid to be ve
ry proper. Fortifications are erecting for
the protection of New-Orleans,' which is
to be surrounded with a deep ditch ; and
the Bay of St. John is to communicate
with the Miflilippi by means of a navigable
canal.
Since the departure of Gen. Bowles
from among the Creek Indians, every
thing seems to have been quiet in thoie
parts. By the lafl advices Gen. M'Gil
livray had not yet attended the meeting at
Rock-Landing, having been prevented, by
the uncommon high rrefhes in the Oaic
mulgee river He was expccted, howe
ver, when the accounts came away, >11 a
few days with 1500 of the Creek Nation,
to carry into full effect the treaty with cue
United States.
Letters from Petersburg (Virginia) fay,
that " enough has transpired relative to the
negro infurreftion on the Eaitern Shore to
render it necessary that the citizens (hould
guard against such an event in future. Dis
coveries, it is said, have been made of
arms, See. in the polieflion of the negroes,
and from the confeffion of some of them, •
they have long had it in contemplation t»
make an attempt of the kind.''
Accounts from Winchefler, Virginia, fay,
that a party of Indians killed a man and
his wife on Elk River in the county of
Harrifon, on or the firtt of May.
There were only four families fettled at
this place, who upon the event moved off,
and arrived fafe in a neighboring settle
ment. Some other murders and depreda
tions have been committed near Fort Jef
ferlbn, and about the mouth of Kentucky
river.
On Thursday last: arrived here the ship-
Harmony,Capt. Ai'hmead, in four months
from Calcutta, in India. 'I his ship brings
accounts of the operations of the Engliiii
arir(ies to about the 20th of January. At
that period nothing very material seems
to have taken place in the operations of ei
ther power, in addition to preceding ac
counts. Lord Cornwallis had eltablifhed
a magazine of stores, &c. about forty miles
from Seringapatani which place it was
expected would be attacked the latter end
of January. \ detacirnen; of Tip.jpo Saib"*
forces was defeated tile latter end of De
cember. A few fortreiles, fly led rods, in
one of the accounts, had been taken from
Tippoo —In that of Pinigra, one half of the.
garrison were put to the i word, after the
place was carried by ahault, for having
previously fired on a flag of truce, who was
lent to demand a surrender—'The Englilh
India prints represent the military aitairs
of England in that country as in a molt
prosperous situation, and the capture of
Seringapatam, as a matter aimoft reduced
to a certainty Those who were readers
of the Royal Gazette, printed in New 1 ork
during the late war, will on such occasions
know how to make the necei.a-y allowan
ces for-exaggeration.
We hear from South-Carolina, that the
extraordinary (well of the rivers in that
Hate, in the month of April, has deltroyed
immense quantities of Indian coin that
were stored at the different landing-places,
for market.— This, it is said, will occalion
a demand for corn from the northern States
till their next crop conies in.
The slate of the votes for governor
of Nev.--York is notyet publilhed. li ap
pears that the ilfue of no election lince
the peace has engaged the attention or
intereitpd the feelings of the citizens of
that State, more than the present.
011 the 24th ultimo, the Governor of the
slate of New-York ilfued a proclamation,
offering a reward of Jive hundred, dollars, to
any person or persons who (hail apprehend
and deliver up to jultice a certain John Ry
er, the murderer of the late deputy-lheriff,
Smith, of Weltcherter county.
An extract of a letter appears in the Pitts
burgh Gazette (of May 26) ,dated Reed's Sta
tion, May 22, as follows: " This morning
about sunrise, Reed's block-house was at
tacked by the Indians; and one Gasper
Redick and a child of John Harbefon's kil
led, and Harbefon's wife and two children
taken prisoners, and one of the levies
wounded: This news I received about
four o'clock, and immediately set off tor
this place with eleven men ; line e my arri
val here I am informed that John Currie's
house is burnt and his cattle killed, and a
Mr. Millen's house, up Puckety, was seen
on (ire. The number of Indians is said to
be about forty."
On the 23d. three hoflile Indians y ele
discovered on the road to Fort-Franklin,
about twelve miles from Pittsburgh; upontriformntibn beeig v>n to .I*l^,h*-
ordered out a par:' of forty foi-.i T', :;c
companied by a small party of vßlunteer
from the town —Neither 'if thern had re
turned when the pod left Pittfbu. gh.
On Thursday lart major- ~ei)eral Antho
ry Wayne, commander in dee'. set ou ; :
from this city to join the army to the weft-
Ward.
The President of the United State'
li3s returned to this capital from his tour
to Virginia.
We ca'i allure the public (favs a daily pa
per) from good authority, that the bank
of the United States in this city has lately
made a loan to the government of live hun
dred and twenty three thousand five hun
dred dollars, at a rate of interest of five
per cent, per annum, free from charges,
and redeemable at the pleasure -of the Uni
ted States.
A small body of Indians, not certainly
known to confiftof more than four or fiv?
have made their appearance at the French
settlement of Gallipolis on theSciota river.
1) '/coven two Frenchmen at work in a
field, they took one prisoner and pursued
the other to the town, firing several mus
q-'.ets at him, hut without effect. _
is <aid) has given a fiiock to the infant
colony from which it will hardly recover.
Some of the Inhabitants are already gone,
and mapy more are preparing to leave tiie
place.
'Hieannu il convention of Unverfal Salva
t: rip ift i;j t e city 011 the 15th. ult. and
. ..unitie on the agth. Information is given
r address, that the number of their
c .. he> in the United States ha.' increas
ed to fifteen, exclusive of twenty five that
hive not yet met in convention. — i hey re
preftnt their Society, in general, to be 'ma
ilouriihing state, and great numbers conti
nually coining over to their perfusion ever
in the most distant parts of the Union. —
Their next annual convention in this city
is to be held on the 25th. of May 1793.
Commodore Manlev (well known for
his bold exertions on the watery element
during the late war) has obtained an h> i
pay pension of 30 dollars per month, from
the United Statefor 1 ife .
We are informed by aperfon from the
F.litem Shore of Virginia, that there is
little or no foundation for the accounts,
re-pi'.bliihed here from a Peterfburgh pa
per' relative to an insurrection of the ne
groes in Northampton and Acconifick
counties, The whole ftorv isfaid to have
originate ! from foine fufp'.cious words
overheard among some of the blacks, which
-were far from proving any general inten
tion amongst. them to diflurb the public
tranquility.
"It is with pleasure We can inform our rea
ders, ( fays the Albany Ga7ette)that a loac
of HF.MP, arrived in this city, on Tucfdaj
last, which was raised at the south end oi
the Cayuga Lake,near the Pennsylvania
line, and was brought by water all the waj
from thence to Schenectady.--This we
believe is the firft instance of any produce,
raised on that beautiful lake, being broughl
to our market."
The rife in the price of sugar at Parishac
nearly been productive of the most fata
conferences in that city. At the fight o.
some hogsheads of this commodity thai
w. re transporting out of Paris the womcr
took the alarm, and beat upon the kettle
drum. The national guard interposed
and happily no bad conferences ensued ai
t;; t time : but the leaven of sedition ftil.
cliffs ; and evil designing people have since
t 'ken all pollible pains to procure a part ol
tl citizens of Paris to march out armed
with pikes, made for the purpose of mur
der and aflaffination. The Fauxbourgs oi
St. Antoine, St. Dsnnis, and St. Marce
reau offered to turn out upwards of 30,00 c
men armed with this weapon, to execute
the wicked designs of intriguing characters
but were happily prevented by the friend;
ofgood order. [Leyden Gaz.
Accounts from China (via Calcutta) fay
a hurricane wrs experienced 011 p i t of the
coast of that country in November last
which was attended with an immenfelof
of the coasting vefiels, upwards of elevet
hundred of which were wrecked and funk
and about twenty thousand people perifli
ed. Such .was the violence of this convul
sion of nature, that a large Dutch lisp ir
the harbour of Macao was obliged to have
all her malls cut away, to prevent f'oing 01:
shore. We are informed from the fame
accounts, that the government of Chins
has prohibited'the sale of fkinsand furrs,
brought from the north-weft coast of A
merica, in all its ports ; and has made it
death for any one to purchase or wear
them.
It appears by the newspapers from differ
ent quarters, that the public attention be
gins to be turned to the next election of ve
prefentatives under the new apportionment
Much good advice is offered to the people
on the importance of the occalion, and the
rules by which they ought to chufe the
men, who are to bj entruiU'd witil then
!i onor. flieir liberties, and their ihterefts :
A ) (rft) That they be men of independent
minds Hii'l honest principle.;— 2. Th.:: tl:
be true friends to liberty and republican
:;!>vernment—3. That they be not jobbers
in paper —4 That t'ney-be not otfi e hunters
Such men a'one can have a common
iutet eft and feeling with the people, and
be entitled to their confidence.
It is particularly worthy of notice (fays
1 correspondent) that no denial has ever
• ppeared of the direS and multiplied af
ertions, that members of the general go
vernment have carried on jobbs and fpecula
'ions in their own measures, even tohiljl t/icf
vafuTcs were depending. If these charges be
:rue, can anything be more difgraceful to
:he councils "of a free country, or more
loudly call for the indignation of a tirtu
jus people ? If they are not true, why are
:hey not denied, ard, as far as the cafe
will admit, disproved by appealing to cir
.umltances which can be inveibgated ? In
lead of being denied, however, the public
las been insulted with attempts to slur the
natter over by mysterious and unmeaning
paragraphs, the low virulence of personal
ibufe, or, what is worfe„by fuggeltions that
:hofe who warn the people against fpecula
:ing and flock-jobbing corruptions i« the
Tovernment, are enemies to the govern
nent and to the people themselves.
An attentive Observer of hnman affairs,
:annot fail refiefting upon the giadual abo
lition of fuperllitious opinions, even in
;ountr ; e» where the light of knowledge is
not fulVered 10 enter, by means of books
iud writings. The Spam.'h nation, who are
generally accused ofidleoefs, have long loft
lhe fruits of what little indufiry there was
amonglt them by that multitude of holidays
Ziich were continually occurring t. om the
beginning to the end of the year. By a
Bull juit pnblilhed, upwards of twenty fes
tivals areftipprefled, so that the artizan or
labourer will now gain more than twenty
days, in the year, for the support of him
felf and family This wife policv never
theless di.',uitls the populace, who, tor
want of information, continue blind to
their own interests. The Spanish priests,
inllead of reconciling the minds of the peo
ple to this wife political edict, are bttfy in
fomenting their discontents, for reaions
3cfl know 11 to themselves, but which the
world may taJily guess at. Another Bull has
been publift.ed, which menaces the pofief
ions of the clergy,and points particularly at
holders of pluralities, and beneficed incum
bents. [Leyd. Gaz.]
When crowned heads manifeft Symptoms
of wililnefsorinconiiftencyin their conduct
(fays an } wglidi paper) it is hoped their mi
nitlcrs will imitate what has recently been
done by the queen of Portugal's council. —
When that Princess began to teftity an in
clination to involve her nation in a m.t
dnevotis and expensive interference in the
alfairs of their Gallic neighbours, they im
mediatciy lent for Mr. Willis, the cele
brated mid Doctor, whole success is un
paralleled in curing royal insanity.
Fame's Rtghtt of Man.
Mr. Pane's second pai t of " the rights ol
man" abou ids with thoughts 011 govern
ment, no less excellent than new. There i s
no American newspaper but might, with
credit to itl'elf, now and then occupy part ol
a coir mn with extracts from a work that fc
forcibly inculcates the genuine principles of
rational and equalliberty. There are some,
however, in the world who fhunthe whote
fome atmosphere of this book ""with the
fame scrupulous caution that viper-?' would
make use of in fleering clear of the delicious
pastures of the Hibernian Jle.
Mr Paine's opinion of the nature of go
vernment.
"Inthe Constitution of Pennsylvania, as
well as in the federal conflitution of theU.
States, there is no such thing as the idea of
a coinpaft between the people on one fide,
and the government on the other. The
compact was that of the people with each
other, to produce and constitute a govern
ment. To suppose that any government
can be a party in a compart with the whole
people, is to suppose it to have existence
before it can have a right to exilt. The only
inftancein which a compact can take place
between the people and those who exercise
the government, is, that the people shall
pay them, wh.lethey chufe to employ them.
Government is not a trade which any man
or body of men have a right to set up and
. 'Lercife for their own emolument ; but is
altogether a trufl, in right of those by whom
that trull is delegated, and by whom it is
always refumeable. It ha?, of itfelf, 110
rights, they are altogether duties."
Altho'the late (Englifh)prints from In
dia announce the ruin of Tippoo Saib and
hisarmy to be an almost certain event ;they
at the fame time do not scruple to aifert
1 hat, "it is impofiible to form any decided
opinion as to the question of peace or war,
altho' no doubt, a number of concurring
circumflances seem? to render the idea ct
afpeedypeaa extrejuely probably
"A paragraph':!! atTerts (fays the Fede-
K A L GAZE rTE )that the benefits of a Joinih//ate
if-public credit, and of the meofures by winch it has
been ejlablifhed, arc extended to the rcmctcfl farts oj
the Union. Pray let us examine who it is that
thinks as this paragraphia does ? Not the
merchant, for he has beeit overbnrtheneil
with-additional duties altho"* he petitioned
a«ainft them ; not the Farmer, for he peti
tioned ;againft' the excise, and inflead of
being redrefled by the exertions of his Rfe
prefentatives he has been turned over, for
his comfort, to an executive officer, who
tiasfophifticated away his complain is—not
:he mechanic, for Ke is threatened with the
jftablifnment of manufactures with their
jxclufive privileges, and moreover he
must furnifli himfelf with military accou
trements that Will cost 30 dollars, to fight,
f called upon, against his neighbour —Not
:he people at large, for notwithstanding
the fulfome attempts of the paragraphia to
irarnilh over the corruptions ana blunders
rf those who have guided our public affairs
for the last three years, the people, I will
maintain it, complain loudly &justly of the
extravagant and ruinous measureS that have
been adopted, which had been previously
calculated to enrich a jfcw speculators, who
not fatisfied with the enormous wealth
they had gathered from the ("polls of the
Toldier, the widow and the orphan, are
now approaching the honest trader, i.i the
shape of a bank, to ("wallow up all his hard
earned profits—it was not enough that ad
ditional duties (liouldbe laid to raile 523-
dco dollars for .keeping up a parade in the
wilderness but 26,156 dolurs interest is tc
ae paid into the pockets of the ftockholden
of the bank of the United States for nuni
lally advancing money to carry on the war on
>ur '' invaded frontiers :" in other words the
bank will supply the paymasters with paper
notes intermixed with a few hard dollars,
:o keep up the appearance of money, ai'd for
this our country is to be additionally taxed
26,150'doliars. The paragraphia may a
rain and again daub over his patrons, who
are the only persons that will join in his
puffing opinions, but the people are not yet
altogether so negleGful of their interest as
to stand by ajiietly to be plundered —they
will insist upon a change of men and mea
sures whenever they feel themselves no
longer able to endure them.,,
The following is copied from the Madrcf
Gazette, of Jan. 19.
Accounts are received by Government
of the entire defeat of one of i ippoo's prin
cipal detachments, commanded by a con
fidential General.
The following are the authenticated
ticulars which have yet come to hand.
On the 28th of December, Purferan
B'now, with a detachment of the Bombaj
army under Captain Little, fell in with «
body of Tippoo's Forces, consisting of 10.
000, Infantry, and 15000 Cavalry : whicl
they routed with almost an incredible lofi
on the part of the enemy.
The a£tion took place at Semogu ;
about one hundred and twenty miles tc
the northwest of Seringapatam, on the
borders of the Bednor Country.
. The general who commanded the Sul
tan's forces, ten guns, with the elephants
and all the camp equipage were taken.
Nothing is at present ascertained of oui
lofa except that Lt. Rofs of the Bombay
establishment, and a handful of European:
under his command, had fallen in the en
gagement.
By two French fh'ps arrived at Norfolk, Vir
ginia, in forty days from France, we learn-
That as soon as Count Florida Blanca was dis
missed from the court of Madiid, the Count d
Aranda, who accepted of the place of minister,
went to the public jail of that city, and out 0
fifty-two slate priloners detained under the ill
grounded suspicions of Count Florida Blanca
or by the tribunal of policy, fifty were set at li
berty without paying cods. —That the lame bar
been praflifed at other places where the Hate in
quilition had been introduced —That the Junta
Suprema of State, is annihilated, and the Con
fejo Supremo of State is reintegrated. —1 hat the
King himfelf is to be 1-rcfident, and the Couni
d' Aranda, Vice President. —That the tribunal
of policy created by the ex-minifler, is alio abo
lilhed, and another formed for the interior poli
cy of Madrid and the Court. That there is 11c
doubt that Spain will return to those principle:
f.'om which (lie ought never to have deviated :
to look upon France as a natural ally, wholt
lii-ndlhip cannot be departed from without ex
poGne herfelf to the fame calamities Ihe under
went before the treaty of Utrecht, and the intro
duction ofa king of the Bourbon family—Tha
the Count Dc Cifuentes, (who was Prefidcn
of Caflille, and a friend to Florida Blanca) ha
ving died suddenly, the king appointed DOl
Juan d'Anzedorico, (an upright magifirate) a
governor of that council, to tbe general fatisfac
lion of the people of Madrid ; That since the
dtfmiffion of Count Fioiida Blanca, (who i:
now retired near the town of Murica, in a eon
vent of Franciscan Fryars) the Chevalier deßur
eoin, and Mr. (i'Durtuby, the French Envoys,
have fettled at Court, and the Count d'Araivk
has promised that every fatisfaflion (ball be giver
to the grievances of the French nation, and of in
hviduals. That such a sudden change inSpain.
md the d?ath ofXsopold hays (,u; ess tbt hf'ac
indarms oftl;c .Inftocratic parly irt France.—
rhe captainsof the above fliijJs fuither inform,
:hat the aflignats had taken a rile, and for a
iil'count of 16 or 18 per cent, hard money may
be had—That the king, the queen, and the prince
royal of France, were the only perlons allowed
:o wear mourning for the death of the emperor,
who had', by hisaitful and hofiile measures, in
:urred the hatred of the French nation ; the
Fanatics and nobles excepted. That Miilv
Emperor of Morocco, having
Inarched agiiuft his brother, the ne-
Prince, was killed in the encounter,
(some fay, by his own people):and that the
negro Prince was alio wounded. —That
the latterjhad been previouily succoured by
two Spanilh frigates, who had landed at
Santa Cruz, about 200 thotifaod dollars ; a
large train of artillery, and warlike itores
of a:l kinds—That the negro prince and a
nother called Santon are now contending
for the empire of Morocco.
Thefollowing gentlemen are chosen by the freemen of
the &ta.h of Connecticut to flan d in nomination
for election in October next, as Rcprefthlativcs in
Congress, viz;
Jonathan Trumbull, James Hillhoufe,
Jonathan Sturges, Jeremiah W adfworth, Ama
ia Learned, Benjamin Huntington, Ste
phen M. Mitchel, Tapping Reeve, Jona
than Ingerfoll, Aflier Miller, Uriah Tracy,
and Zephaniah Swift, Esquires.
BOSTON, May 24.
The innumerable paragraph? in the papers,
relative to the horrid devaftatioilS, and
massacres connnited 011 our frontiers, are
iuft calculated to puff up the Indian war-
If the accounts be true, so far from being
pleaded as apologies for prosecuting the war,
they should rather lead to an enquiry, how
it coiiies that .he tribe:, of Indians
who for so many years before were peace
ible and quiet, are now in such violent com
motion-
To judge of this Indian buHnefs, we'
'hould not consider it in ts prejentflage, but
:arry our researches ifc irortii 1,. & en
quire by whose advice, and by whose influence
we are now involved in this expeniive, dis
graceful ruinous war. After this is
done let the man or men be arraigned to
aafwer for the consequences.
The Britilh papers were formerly crowd
ed with the accounts of riots,&c. (as they
were then called) of the patriots of this
country, in order to excite the resentment
of that nation ; but the whigs in England,
were aware of the delign, and instead of
urging the mar, were tor changing measures,
and bringing Bute, North, (Sc. to answer for
their conduit. Instead of calling for troops
to ravage America, impeachments were the cry
to purge the ministry.
The additional burden thrown on our
Commerce ought to be fatisfaflorily ac
counted for. It may be sport tofome indivi
duals, whose importance would be annihi
lated, should the war fubiide, but it is ruin
to the great body of the people. It was ex
pelled, that the late longfeffion, woulci have
produced a decrcafe of dut.e , rather than an
augmentation ; and it is probable this would
have been the cafe, had not the Indian war
blalted the attempt.
The exorbitant salaries granted to the
multitude of Federal Officers, together with
the expenditures to carry on the Indian
war, are heavy weights thrown 011 our
Commerce- if excellive salaries are requi
site, ami the honor of the states is involved
;iithe Indian war, why (hould not some
part of the revenue arile from " additional"
Tonnage on foreign bottoms ? Why fhouid
the carrying trade be totally neglefted,while
the industrious American merchant has the
mortification to find himfell deprived of his
freight by foreigners, and a. the fame time
hamper'd in his trade by heavy additional
duties. It muftbe allowed by every rea
lonable man that Commerce has alrea
dy its full proportion of the weight of the
[fovernment; some other source is there
fore requisite, as we may drain this bufmefs
beyond its bearings. Foreign Tonnage is
1 proper object of revenue ard it woiud o
perate in a two fold ratio in our favour ;
it would raise a vast revenue, and at the
fame time would give encouragement and
value to our own navigation.
Meteorological Observations.
May, 1792.
D. H. Bar. Ther Wind. (tt'eath.
Monday, 28. 6 30. 1 58 N. E !Fair.
2 30. i 77 do. do.
Tuesday, 29. 6 go. 2 59 S.W. fair.
2 30. 2 80 do. do.
Wednesday, 30. 6 30. 2 63 S. W. Fair.
2 30. 1 86 do. do.
Thurfduy, 31. 30. 2 71 s.s.W. Fair.
2 30. I 90 S. do.
Friday, Junei. 6 30. 2 74 S. hair.
2 30. 2 84 s.w. Cloudy.
Saturday, <T~6 ~307"i 63 s-.SW Rain.
2 29. 9, 76 s.w. do.
Sunday] 3~6 "29T9 ~~7° jw
s 30. i 79 1 do. 1 dg.The FAIR BUCKLE-THIEF.
[A true Story.J
A Country girl, from Flulhing's coast,
Of three miles round the pride and uoaft,
'l o market came with early fruit,
-Apples that might the townsmen suit,
"With cabbage-head, and parsnip root.
"With hat of ft raw and homespun gown,
(Her Sunday fait) /he came to town
To fee, and walk the city through,
V/ith leather strings in leather/hoe,
But sighing much for buckles new.
Six hours, and more, (he patient flood
-And traded off whate'er Ihe cou'd;
But cash was -scarce, and times were hard,
Her apples met with small regard,
She did not get her due reward.
Tier cafii receiv'd—alas 1 how fma!l—
"With pen five heart ihe left the stall—
Looked at her /hoes, And curs'd the strings,
Like mother Eve (as Milton lings)
impatient for forbidden things.
.Arrived, at length, before a /hop,
Some glittering gew-gaws made her (lop-
There buckles hung, of various size,
The diamonds dazzled on her eves ;
.And, why mayn't Hie seize the prize ?
The fiiopman absent from his door,
She feiz'd the buckles from his store,
-And off {he walk'd, an ealy gai:,
"With lightsome step, and look sedate,
Things purchas'a at so cheap a ratz !—
Put Argus, with his hundred eyes,
Mifling tiis buckles, in furprizp,
The fair retreating nymph attacked,
The buckles from the bag unpack'd,
And quickly made her own the fadt.
<( Now (cry'd a jnerchant) honest Joe+
Come, take a kiss and let her go."
» — ' Not I—(thefurly ftiopman laid)—
To jail /bail go this country jade—
The debt to justice mult be paid.**
4< How can jou have so hard a heart ?
" Come, let this country girl depait —
" Like Adam's wife, Ihe went aiiray j
4t Her daughters all will have their way j
4i Men mult not steal, but women may,
Xo/l was this logic on his ears,
-And vain were fcSlouzelinda's tears—
.And go /he must—and go /he mult !
. But, if 'twas said the laws were ju ft,
Their mercy /he was loth to trult.
Conducted to a junior 'squire
(Whom all the neighboring girls admire)
.He alk'd her, " What /he had to fay
Why justice /hould not have its way
On nymphs by buckles led astray r"
€t Alack (flje cry'd) I cannot utter
** A wora—my foul's i;' such a flutter
<c While you my mittimus prepare
Ki Pray, let me take a moment's air 5
41 These summer heats require some /hade*
And nature, fir, must be obey'd"—
So, stealing back, as fairies do,
(The 'squire too modest to purlue)
Without a fall,
She fcal'd the wall, '
And left hjs wor/hip reading Law !
May 30.
———Mscvgg'yffßregggr Vm IM— ■ 1 —
*J"be CONSTITUTION of the germantowh
society fox promoting domestic manv-
FACT U RES
[Republijhed by desire of a cuJlomer~\
"TITTF. the inhabitants of Germantown, de
\\ firous of doing every thing in our pow
er to promote the prosperity and happiness of ou
neighbours, and of ourielves,do eftabli/h this focier
to countenance and /upport every kind of dome/
tic Manufacture, consistent with our iituation
ability and interest 5 we are induced to adop
this measure, from a firm belief, that it is th<
jeal interest of our country, as much as poflible
to be supplied within itfelf, with all thing# con
venient, or necefiary to render life comfortable
.And as we expect the afiiftanceof our neighbours,
■with whom we are united in civil society, in time:
of public calamity, we/hould at all times endea
vor to render their lives comfortable an<d happy
by encouraging them in some ufeful occupation
and not by a deftrudive foreign commerce, gin
employ to the manufacturers of Europe and India,
•whillt our fellow citizens are jn want of bread.
Article I.—The Society /ha'l be called, The
Germantown Society for promoting Domestic
Manufactures.
Art. 2. —'I he Society fliall hold quarterly
meetings, on the third Mondays in February,
.May, Auguft> and November, in every year.
Art. 3 —The third Monday of May in eve
ry year /hall be the annual meeting of the
Society, at which meeting a President, a Vice-
President, Secretary, and a committee of Cor
iefpondence, /hall be elected by ballot.
Art. 4. —The duty of the President /ha'l be tc
preside at all meetings of the Society, regulate
the debates, determine questions of order, and
in cafe of an equality of voices in any bufinefsj
ije /hall have a catting vote. He /hall fubfjribe
all aCts of the Society, and may call special meet
ings of the Society.
Art. 5. —The Vice-President in the absence oJ
the President, /hall have ail the powers and au
thorities of the President. If the President anc
Vice-President be absent at any meeting of the
Society, a Chairman may be elected pro-tem.
by a majority of the members prefertt.
Art. 6.—The Secretary /hail keep fair and re.
guiar entries of the proceedings of the Society at
fhe;r fevers! meeting, reglfter the names of
Members, and give public notice ot the time and
place of the meetings of the Society.
Art. 7.—The Committee of Correspondence,
/hall conlitt of fix members. Whofedutyit (hall
oe, jointly or severally, to correspond with simi
lar ioftitutions,or with individuals on the Seve
ral objects of the Society $ and they fha!l, at
every quarterly meeting of the Society, com
municate such information as they may have re
ceived or acquired, tending to improve the manu
factures already eltablilhed, or to the introduc
tion of new ones, by which the people may be ho
norably and ufefully employed.
Art. B.—As the most unequivocal manner of ?n
---couragingAmencan manufactures,confifts in mak
ing uie of them, and by that means creating a de
mand for them j it is expelled that every Member 5
at the annual meeting of the Society, shall be
clothed in the manufactures of his ccuntry, if not
inconvenient to himfelf.
Art. 9. —Being of opinion that every manu
facture, amongst us, {hould be Supported by its
intriijlie value, at the fame time that it is patron
ized and encouraged by the real friends of their
country ; therefore, the Society shall never use
its influence with government, to prevent foreign
manufactures from being introduced ; but on
the contrary', shall exert itfelf to promote a
free unlimited commerce, which is the true inte
left of every country.
Art. 10—Every Member of similar Societies
shall be regarded as a corresponding Member of
this Society.
Art. 1 j.—The Society shall engage a .lore-keep
er tg receive and fell, on a low tommillion, any
thread, woolen, linen, or any other comeftic ma
nufacture biought to nim, by which every indust
rious member of Society may have a Safe depofite
for the produce of his ingenuity and industry, and
persons wishing to be supplied with American ma
nufactures may know where to apply.
Art. 12.— Every Member of the Society flial 1
fublcribe this Constitution, which contains the
fundamental laws of the Society $ which
no alteration shall take place, except at the annu
al meeting j such alterations having been proposed
at the preceding quarterly meeting.
Jul imported in the flip Molly, Captain Pitt )
Jrom Lijbon —
A few Pipes and Quarter Calks of
LISBON WINE,
Far Jufierier in quality to what is generally impor
ted ; and a few Bales of the very bejl CORKS,
To be Sold by
GEORGE MEA DE,
Who has alfii forfale, Choice three andfive, years, old
Bill of Exchange Madeira Wine,
By the Pipe, or Ouartcr Cask,
LONDON MARKET MADEIRA WINE
five years old by (he pipe, or quait r Cafl<,
Choice old Sherry WINE by the quartercalk
Mess BEEF or a superior quality and luch as is
fit for an East India Voyage— put up in
this city.
Choice firft quality BEEF do.
Do Second do.
BOSTON BEEF equal to any from that
country.
Burlington Pork of the firfh quality,
and one hundred and fourteen hhds of
Fl. AX SEED, &c. &c.
May 16 2 a. w. lm.
I'll IS DAY ARE PUBLISHED,
[In Octavo—Price 21/9,
THE
LAWS of the United States,
Parted at the
First Selfion of the Second Congress.
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY. -
To which are added the* Ratifications oF the
Amendments to the Constitution, by the fevera!
ratifying States; the Armiflice between the Uni
ted States and Great-Britain ; and the Treaty ol
Peace and Friendship with the Cherokees, which,
with those in the other o£tavo volume complete;
all the existing treaties.
Philadelphia, printed by CHILDS & SWAINE.
Printers of the Laws of the United States, ant
fold by them, at their ojjicey No. 209, Market-
Street ; also by the principal Boohfellers in th>
city.
* # * The Laws are sewed in blue paper, ant
are intended to be bound up with those of iht
next feflion, so as to make one volume, com
prising all the Laws pafled by the Second Con
crete, when a complete Index will be added foi
both feflions.
The LAWS of the
Three Seflionsof the First Congress,
With a complete Index, in one volume o£tavo,
may be had as above.
Philadelphia, May 17th, 1792.
CHESTER TOWN & BALTIMORE
STAGES.
THE Eaftem-Shore Stage, by way of Chef
tertown to Baltimore, starts regular!) from
James Thompson's, Indian Queen, Fourth-street,
Philadelphia, every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday, mornings, precisely at 7 o'clock, and
en the Same mornings at 4 o'clock, from Mr.
Grant's in Baltimore. The cultivation of the
country, and goodness of the roads, together
with the attention that (hall be paid by the pro
prietors, will, it is hoped, be a Sufficient induce
ment for a preference being given to this route.
JAMES THOMPSON,
ROBERT HODGSON,
N. B. Light Waggons for hire by James
rhdnfpfon, at the Indian Queen.
PROF O S A L S
For Printing by Subjcription,
PUBLIC REPORTS
FROM T H V.
EXECUTIVE departments
"OF the
Government of the United States
CONGRESS,
Commencing with the present Government, and end
ing with the cloje of the SeJJum of May 1792.
THIS work is intended to be printed in on<
volume oflavo, eftima.ted to contain between fiv<
and fix hundred pages, and will be delivered t<
fubferibersin boards atOne Dollar and a halt.
A complete collection of the Reports into ;
"onvenient and portable volume has been fug
hefted to the publilhers by several Members o
Congress and other gentlemen, and they arenov
determined to proceed on with the work, provi
Jed a competent number of fubferibers appea
:o patronize the undertaking.
Subscriptions are received by CHILDS am
SWAINK, the publilhers, No- 209, Market
flreet, Philadelphia, and by the principal Book
lellers in the United States.
May 24.
Philadelphia and Shrewsbury
STAG E,
By th e route of Bordentown.
THE fubferibers inform the public, that fron
and after the third day of June next, (an
o continue during the summer season) a boat set
}ff from the Crocked-Billet wharf, in Philadel
jhia, on Sundays and Tburfdays in the month
>f June and August : and on Sundays and Wed
leidays in the months of July and September, an
proceeds to Bordentown.
The next morning comfortable carriages rui
/ora Bordentown and Edington, in Shiewfhury
ben meet, and exchange pafl'engers at the half
■vay-boule, known by the name of the Burnt Ta
vern t and return the fame day to Bordentown am
Edington, aforementioned : And on the days sol
owing the boat sets outfrom Bordentown to Phi
adelphia.
The proprietors flatter themselves this plan wil
Ja'rticularly accommodate those who do not wifl
0 be troubled with their own horses and carriages
ind will at the fame time afford them an agivea
jle variety, and make the journey more ealy thai
ravelling the whole distance by land.
The Fare from Philadelphia to
Edington, for Palfengers, - £.0 185
Goods per cwt. - 6
Way palfengers and way in proport'mn.
The public's moll obedient, bumble servant
JOHN VAN KMBURGH,
DANIEL LQTT.
May 11ft, 1792. law.tf.
THE fubferiber begs leave to acquaint hi
friends and the public in general, that b
>as removed from Pennington to that noted taver
nd ferry si and opposite to Eajfon, on the Jerfe
xde of the Delaware, He ra s provided bimfel
vitb a good and fafe Jet of fer r y-crafts 9 and pur
>oJcs keeping the beji entertainment for man an
torse. Every attention Jhall be paid to gentleme
ravelhrs and ethers by the public's mofi obedier
\nd very bumble servant •
THOMAS BULLMAN.
May Btb, 1792.
This day is publifhcd and to be fold by
FRANCIS BAILEY, No.n6,Market-ftrccf
and at the principal Bookfeiiers in this city,
( Price One Dollar)
A GEOGRAPHICAL CLOCK,
Calculated for the meridian of this city \ exhi
nting at ore vieio the time of day or right tn evet\
'tart of the globe ; ivith a full description in lette
irefs of the clock and the planijphere of the earth
md a copious Index of all the principal Kingdoms
jlandsy and Cities in the ivorld, ivith the longitud
ind latitude reckoned from the meridian of Pbila
lelpbia.—A tvork not less curious than entortainin
ind inftruElive to tbofe nvbo are not acquainted tvit
reograpby, as it clearly explains the fundamentc
Principles of that science.
Philadelphia, May 23d. 4t.ia.iv.
MACKINTOSH'S DEFENCE.
This day is published, by William Young, Book
feller, No. 52, Second-street, the corner 0
Chefnut-ftreet, price 2-3ds of a dollar in boards
A DEFENCE
OF THE
French Revolution.
And its ENGLISH ADMIRERS, agaioft the ac
:ufations of the Riyht Honorable Edmund Buike
nduding some ftri&ures on the late produ&ion o
Vlonf. De Calonne—
By JAMES- MACKINTOSH.
N. B.—Ditto with the French Constitution, a
iccepted by the King, 13th September 1791
i'rice in boards 3-4ths dollar.
April 13. 3t.
%* A few Copies of the Report of a Com
nittee of Congress on the causes of the failure
f the Western Expedition, under Major
General St. Clair, Jor sale at the Office No
109, Market-Street.
%* For sale at this Office, Sermons by
the Rev'd Dr. William Linn, of A 7. Yark
Price 5/7 l-a.
T O TH E P U "LIC.
E Subfcnber has it :>t (oi;ten:p lariat; J < ■'#
5 decline bis prejent bvjitujs— ;J hiving or:
band a considerable quantity of Juperfne fcond u>:.t
elafiic clcrhs, together nv.itb a variety of other arti
cles in his ivay, prepofei to Jell than at the
reduced prices- V I Z,
Beji Superfine navy blue 34?,
Ditto, ditto. Scarlet 365.
Common coloursfuperfne 325.
ElajlicJlripes 9s.
London buff and white crffmers 15/6.
Ditto, coloured do, 15;.
YorkfAre do. do, 13/6.
Striped toilenets 145.
Martinets 3 s.
Striped Nankeens lj*f
A variety of iv aij} coatJha pes prcport'ionably Lxv %
Fancy buttons and trimmings do,
London htjl Jilk bofe, from 27 to 245.
The above goods bane been mofily imported from
one of the firfl Mercantile koufes in London, and
are of an equal quality to any imported into Ameri
ca ; they ivill be fold per piece or Jmaller quantity
as may befl suit tbepurchafers 5 by tb^publics mofl
humblefervant, "JOHN SIIE^HERD,
A*. 3 South Fcurtb-fireet.
£3* Any person disposed to purchase the whole
of the aoove stock, may also have on reasonable
terms his present dwelling house, together with
the /lore, a more eligible situation for business in
the tailor's line is not to be found in this city.
The advantage of this business being so well efta
bJiihed by the proprietor will be very great, and
from well known fa&s, needs no comment
A lease of fix years may be had of the house.
May 14, 2aiv, if.
FOR BRISTOL,
jTlin. the ship
'wffltrl Birmingham Packet,
LEESON SIMMONS, Master j
icinai kable fact sailer, her cargo is all ready;
nevertheless to accommodate thole who may be
disposed to put freight on board, it will be taken
in. She will fail in a few days. The owners
are determined that the ship {hall leave Bnftol
with the firll fall (hips.
For freight or pa/Tag ■ apply to the Captain on
board ly.ng at Walnut street Wharf, or
GEORGE MEADE,
rhofe who have goods on board are earnestly
required to enter them, take out their permits
and give the neceflary directions to their porter
to attend the ship. IVlay 16. 2aw
IVaJliington, in the Territory of Columbia.
A PREMIUM
OF 500 dollars, or a medal of that value,
at the option of the party, will be giv
ell by the Commissioners of the Federal
Buildings to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July next, lhall produce to
them the most approved plan, if adopted by
them, for a Prelident's house to be erected
in this city. The lite of the building, if
the artrlt will attend to it, will of course
influence the afpeft and outline of his plan,
and it's destination will point out to him
the number, size, and distribution of the
It will be a recommendation
of any plan, if the central part of it may be
decached and erected ior the present, with
the appearance of a complete whole, and
be capable of admitting the additional parts,
in future, if they fliall be wanting. Draw
ings will be expected of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and feftions
thi oug,h the building in such directions as
may be neceflary to explain the internal
ltrufture ; and an eltimate of the cubic feet
of brickwork, composing the whole mass of
the walls. The Commissioners.
March 14.
11 ajhingtan, in tke Territory of Columbia.
A PRE M 1 U M
Or. a lot in this City to be designated by
impartial judges and sc>odoHars ;or a
medal ot that value, at the option of the
party, will be given by the Commillioners
of the t ederal Buildings, to the person,
who, before the fifteenth day of July 1792,
shall produce to them the molt approved
plan, if adopted by them, for a Capitol to
be erected in this city, and 250 dollars, or
a medal for the plan deemed next in merit
to the one they lhall adopt. The building
to be of brick, and to contain the following
apartments, to wit. , 0 n: • "
A conference room 7 1 ll " icient to
A room for the Re- I accomm »riate
prefentatives J persons
A lobby or antichamber to the latter, f
A Senate room of 1200 square feet
area.
An antichamber or lobby to the lalt. J
' 2 rooms of 600 square feet area, each, for
committee rooms and clerks offices, to be
of hall the elevation of the former. Draw
ings will be expected of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and feftioin
through the building in such directions as
may be neceflary to explain the internal
itrutture, and an eltimate of the cubic feet
of brickwork composing the whole mass of
he walls. The Commissioners.
t March 14.
printed by
C H I L D S AND S W A I N E,
AT THEIR ©FFI CE , N0.209, HlfcH-STREET
MAS FIFTH-STREET,
PH IL AIIEL PHI A*
zL. —s
<V
2.3.
so O
< 3
£ "
go
P cr
a>