Vol. I.
[Extract from the Delaware Gazette, of
September 29.]]
IN the ninth feftion of the e'ghth arti
C'le of the newly adopted Conllitntion
of the state of Delaware, it is decreed—
" That no clergyman or preacher of the gos
pel, of any denomination, Jhall he capable of
holding any civil office in this state, or of being
a member of either branch of the legislature,
while he continues in the exercise of the pajlo
ral or clerical funSions."
At reading this paragraph, an intelli
*nt mind absolutely bewildered, and
e sentiment oi indignation is 101 l in that
of amazement. Who, in fact, is not asto
nished, that the natural rights of inen, the
arguments of the Abbe Mably, the late
writings of the immortal Thomas Paine,
the example of our filter Hates, and of the
French and British coaftitutions, all de
claiming any odious exclulions of men, 011
account or their lawtnl profeffions, should
not have reached the understandings,
or influenced the opinions of our late coti
vention-tnen ? Some of them, it may be,
who derive very little of their information
from books, and whole habits of reasoning
cannot be funpofed to be very accurate,
when abftrafted from the arrangement and
emoluments of their bulinefs, may possibly
plead ignorance for this political injustice.
But the public will hardly give them credit
for this plea, when it is remembered, that
thefirji p efident, (_Mr. DickinfonJ with
all that manly and persuasive eloquence, of
which he is known to be so great a mailer,
exposed and reprobated the ungenerous
clause, demonstrated its repugnance to rea
son, policy, liberty an 1 justice, and ma'de
unusual, though unavailing exertions to
da't from his own enlightened mind,
some luminous rays into the chaos that
furrouuded him i';ut prejudice, my fel
low citizens, was impervious to argument :
the na'ural rights of an inoffending class
o' men were facrficed to this demon of so
ciety, as Paine justly lliies it ; and religion
was ltiil made to weep over the disgrace of
her ministers."
But you will fay, does not th's pre
judice again ft the clergy, reft upon some
foundation ? It does. But the talent of
comparing everts with their causes, with
out which, an attempt at legiilation is
prefuinption, might have easily overthrown
it. Were not the clergy, in ancient times,
the supporters of dafpotifm ? They were.
But what does this make against the
clergy of Delaware ? Have they, or are
they ever likely to have the fame motives,
temptations, opportunities, or power ? Be
sides, must the soldiers of Delaware be de
prived of the right of fuffrage, because the
armies of despots have overturned, and
are actually attempting the overthrow of
freedom ? Must the mechanics of Delaware
hold no civil office, bceaufe those of B r
mingham lately waged war upon philoso
phy and conscience ? But did not the cler
gy praftife the grofTelt impositions during
the dark ages of the world, to fill their
coffers at the expence of the laity, and raise
their own importance upon the depression
of the people ? They, did 4 but at tht
present cnliglrened period of the world, is
there the flighted probability of such
prepollerous influence ? And should the
former ages of ignorance return, will not
influence be as innocent, when annexed to
all the little information in being, as in the
hands of a fupeiftitious and brutal multi
tude.
The fact is, deep rooted prejudice could
alone have dictated this illiberal exclusion,
for I would not suppose the members of
the convention so grossly ignorant, as not
to know that no parallel can be drawn be
tween the situation of the clergy in ancient
times, and that of the fame oruer of men
in America. Any person acquainted with
history must know, that the power of the
clergy and their subserviency to des
potism arose pr ncipally from the gross
ignorance of the laitv, the prevalence of
iuperftition, the law of celibacy, aud the
right usurped by popes and pr-!cc;s of'
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhtd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Tmr EE Do llars ptr annum.
W EDNESDAY, Oclober 17, 1792.
naming exclusively, to ecclesiastical bene
fices. The doctrines of purgatory, in
dulgences and pilgrimages fil'ed the coffers
of the church, and auricular confeffion was
the chief instrument of her power.—
Now let me aflc our late convention
men, if they really apprehend the revival
1 of these doctrines in the Delaware state I
If they did not, why should this odious
stigma be retained ? and if they did, they
must of course have dreaded the return of
the dark ages of Christianity. In which
cafe, instead of guarding against the power
of the clergy, they ought rather to have
countenanced it, as that order of men, in
such a fuppolition, would engross the whole
sum or ufeful information. But prejudice,
like the spider, will hve where there sterns no
thing to live on. The very name of clergy
man is a bugbear to some people, and in
volves the idea of ar:ifice and intrigue.
Diflimulation is judged by many as an
appendage to the profeffion, and men of
narrow and felfilh minds know not how
to give credit for sentiments, which they
never experienced.
I know it has been said, that even
the protestant clergy have sometimes been
the abettors of despotism ; that the body
of E:;ghili bilhops was inimical to Ame
rica ! What follows from this, but that
bodies of men will always be actuated by
their corporate interest, however individn.
a s may fe 1 more generously. Good po
licy therefore, should attract every order
of men to the center of society, which is
the public good, by receiving them into all
the advantages of government.
Biit admitting the despotic intentions
of the Euglifh Church, and indeed of the
Scottish Church also, let us reflect only
from wh.it source they flowed, and the
argument drawn from hence will fall to the
ground. They are religious eflabliflments,
combining a common interest inimical to
unlimited freedom of conscience. This
circumstance fully accounts for their policy,
but can nev r apply to the Clergy in Ame
rica—Befi.les, in what manner would the
lawyeis of Delaware have treated the
Convention, had their order been exclud
ed from the honors aud emoluments of
government, because the whole bench of
British judges waj opposed to Arneiiwm
liberty ? bccaufe Lord Mansfield, Lough
borough, Thurlow, Dundas, and many
other luminaries of the law were ftrenu
ous advocates for unconditional submission?
If the abetto's of the exclusion, should
attempt to represent it rather as an exemp
tion, than a disgrace, and defend the Con
st it lit ion, as promoting religion, by com
pelling a ftrift attendance in her ministers ;
the answer is, that 110 clause in the consti
tution countenances any such favourable
conftruftion of its intentions, no compen
sation, no privilege, 110 exemption is so
much as hinted at to counterbalance the
ungenerous exception : So that if this
clause be deemed by any as an ast of mercy,
truly may it be said, that the tender mer
cies of some are cruel.
As to the riVht in the convention to
make this exclusion, it must either be de
rived from their delegated povreis, or from
some difqualifying circumstance in the cle
rical character itfelf.
Now,let meafk you, my fellow-citizens,
did they receive this right from you ? Did
you authorize your delegates to deprive
you of the power to chufe a clergyman for
an afTembly-man, or a conflable, in cafe
vou deemed him worthy of these offices ?
Let me ask you, further, had you really!
the power to confer any such right ? For
my part, I never conceived that any in
dividual, or community, pofTeffed the
power of doing an ast of injustice either
by themfilves, or their officers. But you
will fay, tlvs is no ast of injustice ; then
neither would it have been an ast of injus
tice to exclude the lawyers, the physicians,
the farmers, merchants, mechanics, millers,
or schoolmasters: unless, indeed, some
dilqualifying circumstance be inherent in
the clerical character itfelf.
Now what is this circumstance? Can
the wishes of the late convention-men de
fine it ? Is it too much learning or too
little ? the firft circumstance would bear
hard upon the doctors and lawyers, the
lalt upon some others : Is it because their
education difqualifies them for civil em
ployments ? Probably some of the con
vention never heard of X imenes, Rich
lieu, and the Dean of St. Patrick's, who
"were perhaps, the greatelt politicians that
Europe ever produced. Besides an im
proper education is seldom worse than
none at all : Is it because clergymen have
no business to meddle in civil affairs, and
ought to confine themselves entirely to
their fpiriiual duties ? Of this I conceive
they are the bell judges themselves ; and
while they a;e Unprovided for by the pub
lic, with what justice can the public in
terfere with their private conduct, while
innocent. As well might they be ex
cluded from holding worldly property, as
to be incapacitated to frame laws for its
protcftion.
Officers of government, indeed, may
with propriety be confined to certain sta
tions and duties, and they accept of their
offices, under some legal difqualifications,
as curbs to undue influence.
But the clergy are not in the pay of
government, they are not its officers :
They are distinguished from the common
mass of citizeus by mere courtesy only,
and therefore not objedta of any legal ex
clufions. No reason therefore could be al
ledged forthis unmerited insult. It could
proceed only from the absolute authority,
the tel efl noireplaifer, of the convention.
A whole order of men, wliofe interests
bind them as closely to their country as
any class of citizens can be bound ; wbofe
welfare depends upon, and whole hopes for
themselves and their pjfterity are as inti
mately connected with the prosperity of
the state ; because they profefs to preach
the gospel of Christ, are prescribed in a
public and solemn constitution of govern
ment, and held up as unworthy the con
fidence of their countrymen.
My fellow-citizens, does not this de
gradation of the clergy recoil upon religion
itfelf? He that despises you despises me, fays
the divine Author of Christianity. Will
'he people refpeft a man, or trust him in
natters belonging to their salvation, whom
the laws have stigmatised as unworthy to
jbe a cOnstable ? Besides, does not the ob
noxious feftion seem to be levelled at
Christian ministers exclusively ? No clergy
man, or preacher of the gospel shall be capa
ble of holding any civil office in thisflate, &c.
Now in what manner would these words
afFcft a Jewish Rabbi, or a Mahomedan
Dervife ? I conceive, that by this confiitw
tion every preacher of every religious fyflem,
except the Christian, would be eligible to
civil offices in Delaware. Go true it is,
that in every ast of injustice there is a
flrong mixture of ridiculous inconsistency :
for I cannot believe that the constitution
mean; Jerioufly to compliment a Deiftica!,
Jtwifh, or Mahomedan congregation at
the txpence of the ancient religion of the
country.
Such being the fair statement of this
difqualifying clause ; such the ideas which
a great proportion of the community en
tertain concerning it,
The clergy of Delaware are still inclined
to hope that some future day will relieve
them from this ungenerous treatment, and
restore tlicm to those common rights of
cit zenfhip,which they are not confciousof
having forfeited by their past, or pre
sent conduct ; which they mean to merit
by their future efforts to be serviceable ;
and design to attempt recovering, in a
peaceable and constitutional manner. In
the mean time, while they regret that in
justice ha* often been cllablifhed without
law, and sometimes againjl it, they trust
and confide that no other instance will oc
cur in the history of Delaware, in which
it shall be established by law.
Numb. ioi.
EXTRACT from a Publication in the
Gazette of th; United States,) of October
Io) entitled A jlateinent offvme oljedions
to the adminiflraiion oj the federal govern
ment ; by a Citizen of Philadel
phia,
" A S to the administration of the fc«
JTX deral government, I have not heard
of more than twofpecits of material objec <
ns to "—one of which refpe&S the
IVeJlern » ritory.
" If the population of the frontiers had
been crowded out in close columns, and every
exterior township or tract of land had been
firft filled with inhabitants, before the next
adjacent lands had been fold or permitted
to be fettled, in that cafe the frontier settle
ments would have been supported by an
inherentJlrength, the inroads of the enemy
would have been difficidt and dangeroi/s,
and of course our defence would have been
cafy, cheap and effectual ; whereas permit
ting thin •weak settlements to be scattered
along a vnfl frontier, rendered them incapa
ble of defence, whilst at the fame time it
made :he inroads of the enemy cafy, and
in a manner free of danger.
Perhaps too in our firft treaties with
the Indians, we assumed sovereign and dic
tatorial airs, which irritated their feelings,
and held up rights and demands totally
inadiniffible on their part, and which we
could not support on any reafonabls
grounds of claim.
" This source of dilcontent and resent
ment soon fermented intoaßionond injury,
and deadly snimofities begun to appear
both in the Indians and our frontier peo
ple, and which were every day more and
more inflamed by innumerable insults, de»
predations, muders, and all kinds cf pro
vocation, mutually committed and retali
ated, till the \vhole of our frontier was in
a ftatc of general hostility, and made the
attention of the eeneral government indis
pensably necefTary.
" Whether the war could have been pre
vented by any prudent pacific measures, I
don't pretend to determine ; but admitting
the war to be inevitable the measures adopt
ed for carrying it on, have been thought
by lome people to be not very proper.
" The experience of all Noith-America
invariably proves, that fighting Indians
by regular troops is no likely way to insure
success; 'tis like undertakin ' to kill flies
with a cannon ball, the very wind of which,
will blow them away without hurting or
even touching them.
"I fhouid suppose that ire 1 long in
nured to travelling the woods, who have
by habit and usage acquired flrength and
ha-dinefs fufficient for long marches, and
are acquainted with every easy method of
performing them, and fupportinj, them
selves with provisions and all modes of
accommodation, would be the proper men
to be employed.
" If men of this chara&er could be en
couraged by proper pay, honors and re
wards, to form themselves into voluntary
societies or companies, and could be fur
nifhed with every necefTary accommodation
of arms, cloathing and provisions, from tha
public itorcs,and bepermitted in their own
way to ravage the woods, or penetrate in
to the enemy's country, with design and
zeal to an«oy them in every poflible man
ner—l conceive that five hundred men of
this cast, and thus accoutred and employed,
would take our enemies in their own way,
and would vex and dispirit the Indians,
either in their towns, hunting parties, or
military expeditions, more than ten times
the number formed into a regular army,
at twenty limes the expence which woui»l
be fufneient in this way.
" It may be obje&cd that this mode of
carrying on war would be a dijgtaceful
imitation of Indian fvoagenefs ; but I an
swer, that however inconliitent with ths
generous feelings of our own people,
skulking parties, bush fighting, premiums
on scalps, &c. &c. may appear, yet I think
as the Indians adopt ihefefavage modes to
a«ir gr*?.t annoyance—honor artdjuJUti willpermit ana t! ■.<: public <1 es require a
-ftfiliation on them, and thai too in fui!
tale. '
] come u,'.' to the fecord fort or fpt
cics of colli))!,nnt that I have neard againit
itie conduct of the' federal government
ii.v'cr tie p efent conlliiution, which *e
fpetts the lUSDINO system; the com
vHitiantSJ-f'hii l->vt have been very foauda
loully t aduced by sundry writers in Mr.
Fenno's paper ;they have been held up asin'-
ir.i ca! to the payment of jalt debts, to the
fupporl of public credit, to national jus
tice, and lianor, as friends to ami city,
baseness and confufiort, &c. and have been
called upon .wish inipknt challenge to (tep
forward and jhew their face?, and avow
their ohjedlions. I here accent their tripl
ing, (!k \v my face, and avo.v my objec
tions, and 1 conceive that If I was follow
ed by all the citizens of the Union, whole
featiments are similar to mine, I fhouul
lead the'"-'enieft arwy that ever w as on any
occatlori doltertea 111 North America.
[The )■emuiader in our k.'k/.]
Fur the National Gazette.
E'NlTlNE.Triith neyer deviates into
\IT mitre; r dentation. That an im
pSftorljas affirmed iu name in the National
Gazette of the .loth mil. is fi;!Ticieritly
evinced' by'she following circum(la:ice,—■-
The writer, who appears under that figna
ttlre, after endeavouring to tenure cer
tain exprefiions <)f the Secretary of the
Treasury, hito'a nrear.uig which, ionil«ued
with ca't !bur,'and in connection with their
context, never could be pi.t upon them—
proceeds thus, " If these opinions,-seem
to be contradicted in any manner or degree
by ihe other observations of this officer,
■namely, that " the creation of debt (houhl
always be accompanied with the means of
ex'Lir.guiJhment," and " that there should
be a con(tafit effort to reduce the present
and avoid new deb:s as far as may be," it
is molt fairly to be explained by allowing
for a more cautious language latterly pro
duced by the public alarm taken at such doc
trines," fife. Now, it happens, unfortu
nately for this uncandid interpretation,
that thefirft of the above quoted positions
(to wit) that "the creation of debt should
always be accompanied with the means of
txtinguifhmeiit," is contained in the very
fir/! communication, or report, which the
Secretary of ihe Treasury ever made on
the fubjeft of the public debt ; in that
•very report which contains the expreffi >ns
tortured into an advocation of the doctrine
that pifbiic debts are "public blessings ; i i
immediate connexion w-.th thc very cxpref-
Jions upbn which that coiiltrudtiou has
been put.
Again : The phrase " critical point,"
quoted from a report of the Secretary of
the Treasury on Manufactures, is m de to
refer to that point at which public debts
cease to be public bleflings ; whereas in
the tfuefe.rife in which the phiafe is used,
it refers really to that point, at which "A
public debt may be fvvelled to such a size,
as that the greater part of it may cease to
be iifeful as capital, serving only to pamper
the difiipation of idle pnd difiolute Indivi
duals, tis that the fnms required to pay the
intcrdt ci it may become vpprejfive & beyond
themeail3 which a government can employ
torjlflenl'.y ivith its tranquility ,'.oraife them ;
•is tliat the resources of taxation to face the
debt may hare been (trained too far, to
admit of exten/inn adequate to exigencies which
regard the public fafety ;" (Fee page 25 of
the rep >rt of the Secretary of the Treasu
ry on Manufa&ures). — It is this " critical
point," including a complication of cir
cumftances cf which the Secretary speaks,
and concerning which he observes, that
" where it is cannot be pronounced ; tho'
it is impoffiole to believe that there is not
such a point:" this is a further f;mple of
the difpoiitionto mistake and misrepresent.
—In fine, the just and obvious conllruftion
of what the Secretary has said is (imply
this while i: cannot be admitted as
a general proportion, that public debis
are public blessings, with which latitude
the dodtrine is sometimes laid down, yet
there may be particular Jiluplion: of a coun
try, in which a poition of a public debt,
funded on right principles, may be advan
tageous ly supplying a deficiency of aSual
capital—and that such was the situation
of the United States, at the time the quef
t'on conccrning a provision for the public
debt was depending, that the proper
funding of the exuling debt would render
it a public advantage—nnd hitherto at lead
the position is verified by experience.
Gloomy predi&ions of the future, it is
true, are thrown out, by fadtious, or hy
pochondriac politicians-; but these beuig
mere predictions, must. be referred for their
fulfilment or tefiilation to Time.
In any event, thedo&rine charged upon
tl'.e Secretary of the Treasury, which hs
emphatically terms '' a doctrine inviting to
prodigality, and Habit to dangerous abtfe,"
is not attributable to any thing he has laid,
ftiil less to any thing he has done. —It
conduct is allowed to be a test of linceiity,
the course he took in tiie lalt feflion, in re
gard to the war with the Indians, is a
pregnant and energetic proof of his aver
sion to an accumulation of debt. Whatever
niav be the good or ill qualities of that
officer, much flexibility ot character is not
of the number—He is not therefore liable
to the suspicion of having disavowed any
principle which he really entertains,becaufe
it may have excited a degree of clamour.
FACT.
Philad. Oa 16
For lit National Gazette.
Mr. Fre nf.au,
T Cor.gr; nutate you on the late malicious
JL and defperare manoeuvr'e to afiiitfinate
the free paper you publith. It is the h'gh
e!l honour that could have been done it.
For if it did not deserve the praiu; of a free
paper, that pulled off the mail; that covered
the fharilefuHeft abuses, and did it not main
tain and vindicate the caule of true repub
lican government again ft the machinations
of an ariftocraticul and greedy faction,
thereby probing the ulcers of the body po
litic in order to their being healed, it would
never have drawn upon you the venomous
hatred, caliintav, and rancorous perfecu
tio-n, tint have broke forth with such fury.
Had your paper (like another that every
reader will name) panegyrized and puffed
off every public measure, not excepting even
the clog on newspapers , republifhed writings
in favour oimon&rchyandanjlocracy, preached
u > the advantages of hereditary powers, and
the blejjtngs of public debts, and also calumnia
ted tlie honest and independent patriot, w ho
would not wink at schemes of usurpation,
and jobs of speculation, then it is clear from
what the public fees and knows, that you
would have been applauded, and your paper
favoured, aided, and fed from the fame
j quarter that now utters its malignant and
| falfe acctifations against a free press. But
i he not weary, nor faint in well doing. Ihe
I designs of the attack are so evidently set
I forth to a discerning public, by the quarter,
! the manner, and the time thereof, that every
1 candid man mult detest the fame, and it
j iniiit be univerfaliy seen through, to be the
, desperate struggle of detested and terrified
I guilt.
j Go on then, fir, in full trttft and confi-
I dence that so long as your paper supports
the conftitntion against its secret ufurpiug
enemies, who would make it another thing
thairtlie people made it, and endeavours to
purge the government of the abuses and
vices brought therein by the lust oi
power and the inordinate th'rft of gain,
tho' you may not be petitioned nor bribed
bv thole who have molt of the ways and
means therefor, and may experience fur
ther attempts to crtlih a press that tends to
open the eyes of the public to jrs rights and
interest against men .whole view is to throw
j dust into them, by dsluuve mis-statements
and mifreprefenration', and tho* unrighre
oufnefs and artificial management may for
a while prosper and prey upon t!ie public
good, yet in the end the catife you plead,
' which is the cause of Liberti , Tiiutii,
and THE Peopi.e, must and will prevail
in this our land ; and you will have the
lure and honest reward of the thanks, en
couragement, and support of all (incere
1 well-withers to condiuttional freedom ami
' virtuous government. This is the unfeign
f ed conviction and expectation of a
Conjiituiional Republican.
/ October 6th, i 792.
J To the Editor of the National Gazette.
S I R,
t T 1 'HERE are many who think the artificial
f X capital raised by a great public dent to
l»e capital artifice in the bnfinefs of go
j vernment. Being a very plain man, and
remembering, "the cobler to his lalt," I
'' don't intend to gravel mvfefcf in such a deep
8 subject.' But allowing, iir, that a little
s temporary profit was to he got by such
e means, I cannot in my heart, as an honest
t man and a friend to liberty, agree in opini
on with the Secretary of the Treasury that
a public dtbt can be a / übli. bkjjing, when I
' 'conlider and fee the derangement it pro
!" duces in the equitable proportion between
d industry nrd reward, and in the ideas oi
n moral jufticedtul candid dealing: and more
f. than any thing else, when I behold the fad
c tendency of such a state of things to gene
; rate corruption in the government, and to
spread snares for the public liberty among
' the watchmen and guardians appointed by
'' tiie people to prefjrve and maintain it.
j Hear how the keen-sighted and honest poet
Jefcribes the charafler of the paper (yrtem
of England ; at a time when the tide of
corruption brought in by it was tar beiow
the present mark in that country :
Blest paper credit 1 last and best supply,
That lends corruption lighter wings to fly;
Cu\Aimp'dlythce, can compass hardest tilings,
Can pockctfates, t ail fetch or carry kings;
A single leaf (hall waft an army o'er
Or (hfp oft'fenates to a distant fiiore ;
A leaf, like Sybil's, (carter to and fro'
Our fates and fortunes, as the winds shall
blow :
Pregnant with thousands flits thefcrip unseen,
And lilent fells a king, or buys a queen.
Oh ! that such bulkey bnbes as all mightfeeX
Still, as of old, tncumber'd Villainy ;
Oct. 13. honestus.
Fr the National Gazette.
Mr. Fkeneau,
IT is wonderfully strange that interested
sycophants fliould periilt in the folly of
recalling the public attention to the Bank,
by their vain attempts td|fcreen and varnish
over the deformities of that unconstitution
al affair. From time to time we hear it
rep* a ted in conversation with grave faces
.rid even uihered into print with the mod
hardened aflurance, that the public have
gained a nett profit of a million of dollars.
These filicide advocates ninft surely fuppoli
that there are none out of office, who under
stand the plaine'lufe of figures. It, fir, the
profit 011 the public's (hare (two millions)
is one million, then the whole profit 011 the
Bunk (' 10 millions) mull bejfoc millions: ant!
the Bank charter was v:on\\ five million ,
and confequcntly as the right granted was
public property before the grant, rite govern
ment alienated the property of their conlti
tuents for one fifth of its vaiue; or, under
another view of the matter, gave away a
nelt prifit offour millions chiefly to the great
f aviators. Should the pi biic lands, & other
public property be managed in the fame oe
cenomical way, hcwrich will the public grow ;
meaning by the public, not the people, but the
government ; and by the government those
in it, who are fellers and /uycrs both ; that i ,
who fellfot the people, and buy for themselves.
PLAIN TRUTH.
Phi'ad. October 12.
FOREIGN NEWS:
( Abridged.)
Paris, Aug. 15 —20.
The flatues of the kings of France,
throughout Paris, are now destroyed or
melted up into more ufeful forms. The
populace are continually exprefling their
joy, in the places where these flatues flood,
for their demolition, remembering how
much the glories of these monarchs had in
times past impoveriflied the nation, and
! what desolation their cruelties had spread
over an opprefled people. La Fayette is
declared a traitor to his country, and every
individual is invited to (hoot him, if he can
not be brought alive to the bar of the na
t;o.. d assembly. He has declared him re if
for a conllitutional king, consequently a
gainst the assembly. M. Dumeurier is ap
pointed general of the northern army 111
his room—the globe, which as an emblem
of royalty was placed over the principal
gate that led to the Thnilleries has been
pulled down 1 ; and the buds ofM. de la
] Fayette, M. Bailli, and M. Keckar, which
were placed in the hall of the aflenjjly,
have been treated with the fame, indignity.
The celebrated circumnavigator Bougain
ville, was killed on the 10th instant. He
was walking with a lady in the Champ E
! lyfee when he was attacked and torn to
I pieces by the people. It is said, with a de
j gree of certainty, that the court of Great
Britain has resolved to recall Karl Gower,
| their ambaflador here, and all the other
; members of the fame einbafly.
The following is the note communicated,
by the empress of Russia to the French am
baflador redding at her court :
" The disorder and anarchy which have
for some time prevailed in France, to the
prejudice of that authority which foreign
powers were at., jftomed to acknowledge,
and which are manifefted every day more
and more by new excesses, have at length
determined the Imperial court of Rullia to
( suspend the intercourse and correspondence
1 which it formerly held with that kingdom,
until his Molt Christian Majesty (hall be e-
I ftablifhed in all the rights and prerogatives
; afligned to him by human and divine laws.
) Oil these considerations, after having recall
• ed from Paris her miniller plenipotentiary.
1 and her charge des affaires, who remained
t there fume time, her majesty tliinks, thai
• the presence of tiie Sieur Genelt, eltablilh
t ed under the latter title in her capital, i:
[ become not only fuperfluous, but evenin
■ tolerable. He is therefore informed, tha'
1 he mult quit her capital in eight days, am
f the slates of Ruflia as soon after as pofiihle.'
: The French refjdent at Conitantinople,
! according to a letter from that city, has de
- clared that an army of more than one huu
: dred thonfand Turks will fhortiy march in
-1 to Hungary. —For the honor of the kingo!
Poland, i: ought to be known, that he did
. not think of yielding, while a ray of hope
t was left. His army was reduced to little
more than thirty thoufar.d men, without
arms; ammunition, clothes, or provisions,
ami the enemy, with a force of three times
the number, in pofleflion of all the most va
luable ]>art of his kingdom—The fate of
Poland may be conlidered as one of the tri
umphs of despotic royalty. If this brave
nation seems to have Itruggled in vain, they
have nevertheless de'monlfrated to princcs,
who arrogantly stile themselves the malters
of mankind, that however they may con
temn the rights of nations, there is a wake
fill and independent public, to whole tri
bunal they nnifl submit the reason, if not
the success of their machinations, who. if
they cannot for the moment refill the tor
rent of injiiftice, will inspire such indigna
tion in the human heart, and propagate so
effeftnally the principles of a pure morali
ty, as fhal 1 make their conquests but (Irort
tived, and deliver them down to posterity
with execration and shame.—The com
mons, who are made answerable for thefe
curity of the person of Louis 16th, are taking
new precaution; to ensure their important
charge. They permit no persons to remain
ivith him but such as are absolutely necef
"ary. They are making a ditch all round
:he building where he is imprisoned ; and
le (ides'the exterior guard, the interior is
ompofed of fifty men, who for the twenty
our hour- they are 011 duty, cannot stir
if the wall, and who are maintained at thH
jdblic charge. Each battalion of the na
: onal guard furnifhw 25 men in rotation,—
To prevent any Hidden surprise, in or near
the capital, a camp, which is to conlift of
40,000 men, is about to be formed under
: he'walls of Paris. Equipage for the camp,
itifl all neceflariexare providing, and 500,000
livres are ordered to be paid from the na
tional tree fury to the executive power to
defray the expence.—A counter-revolu
tion was upon the point of being carried
into execi riojj had not the king been sus
pended and dethroned. The palace of the
Thnillerits was full of papers indicative of
iitCtounter-revolution, which are ordered to
be printed, read in every parifii church in
:he kingdom, and at the head of every re
silient, that the French nation may not be
..llumif.atcd for groundless attacks upon roy
alty, which has ever been perfidious, when,
die intereils of the people were at flake—
:he papers of M. Montmorin had been fei
tcd, and himfelf ordered to be arrefled as
lie favourer of a counter-revolution ; but
nad quitted Paris, with his family, some
Jays before.
PHILADELPHIA.
OCTOBBK 17.
Extrafl cf a kfttr. dated Brijlol, Augvjl 14.
" Every ftuceffive account from Spain
confirms us more and more in the opinion
that she has yielded to the influence of
French politics. The ariflocratic French
ein grants are no longer looked upon with
an eye of favor in that kingdom, and if
money has been lent by the king to the ex
iled princes of France, it has been more
from charity than affeitlon. Foreign newf
lapers are now read by every one in Spain.
The civil-inquisition court is aboliihed,
md every meafiire seems to be pursuing
:o make the people happy and contented.
As to France, there are divisions and par
ties in Pars, but the kingdom at large
s unanimous; and there is little doubt
nit the gov't Mine lit will soon be chan
ged into a rep ilic ; at least, from all ap
iearance, the lleptre seems to be departing
from t?he Bourlcns. The French have been
uccefsful beyond all expeilation in infect
ing the German armies with the fpirir of
ieierrion. The pennon offered to all de
"erttrs l .'otn tiie Austrian and Pruflian regi
ments has ge.ii. rally conquered their attach
ment to de.potiim, and there is little doubt
ant France may in a short time light the
leagued powers with their own forces.—
The regiment of Wirtemberg, coafifting of
right hundred men, deferred to the French
111 a body ; among the Pruflians desertion is
[fill more formidable ; and it is said,
from the bell authority, that the emperor
lias already 101 l one third of his troops, on
the frontiers, by the sword and defertion —
11 is the iathion among high flying gentry in
England to r.iil at the Jacobins or France—
Let not the word frighien you, on your fide
of the water—they are the fame as your
whigs offevenly Jix, and with them refls the
salvation of F. nee—Rely ou it, the spirit
of the nation r Jacobin, that is, equal liber
ty, and mint eventually carry all before it.
Poor nobility is on its last legs ; laughed at
in England, and kicked out of doors in
France. In Paris, a few days since, were 1
burnt publicly fix thousand parchment ca
ses, containing genealogies, titles, and tells
of nobility—alio two hundred cases, com
pofmg part of the colleilion of titles refpect
mg the order of the Holy Ghost, from their
inltitution to the present time. lam sorry
for the reports relative to the Marquis : I
fear his fond attachment to the king has
forever ruined I: m with the nation."
A merchant of this city, has received
from his correfjiondent in Charleston (by
the Georgia Pac.cet, arrived here on Mon
day la(t) a letter dated the sth inft. which
mentions that a vefl'el from France, arri
ved at Savannah, brings news to the firit
of September—that the queen of Francehad bjen murdered; thai the king anil the ,
marquis, de la Fayette w ere milling ; that
5000 of the people of Paris had been put
to death (by what party the correspondent
takes no notice) ; and that the Duke of
Brnnfwick and his army, were within 30 j
miles of Paris.
By comparing dates and weighing cir
cumflances, we are ltrongiy inclined to the
opinion, that this vague account is but an
imperfect narrative of the events of the 10th
of August and the days following.
Supposing the vessel arrivtd at Savannah
to have failed even from Havre—the sea
port nearest to Paris ;---as the distance be
tween these two places is about 100 miles,
the Paris news brought by this conveyance
would be of the 30th at furtheft.
Our last Paris accounts to be depended
on are to the 20th of August—the Duke of
Brnnfwick was not then known to be far
within the frontier, fiy about soo miles
from Paris. Supposing that in his march
he had met with 110 oppofkion, which is not
very probable, and that he had travelled
towards Paris at the rate of fifteen miles a
day, a good round rate confideririg the in
cumbrance of artillery, &c. it was barely
polfible that he should have proceeded to
within ten leagues of the capital before the
31ft of August.
But we have information (fee Gen. Ad
vertiser Oct. 12) of a vessel bound to Salem
from Havre-de-Grace, with accounts to
the 4th Sept. the captain of which was
spoken with off the Grand Bank, dropt a
word on politics, and yet made no mention
of the above accounts. {Gen. Adv-]
"The superintendent of Indian affairs
(fays a letter from tiie Creek Indian coun
try) has given many pre Tents to the Indians
at the Rock-Landing, and the next treaty
is to be held at St. Mary's in November.
The Spaniards have several emiflaries in
the nation, and an officer of theirs has late
ly made his appearance among the CufTe
tahs : they endeavour all they canto flop
the Indians going to run the lines."
On the 26th of September happened a re
vere frofl in Elizabeth town (Marylaim)
and its vicinity, which totally destroyed all
the tobacco that was in the fields. The
loss is said to be severely felt by the people
in that part of the country.
The General AfTembly of Virginia, now
in Teflion, have under ccnfideration a revision
of the laws of thi't (late ; "of which very
definable work (fays a Virginia paper) and
its ifT'ue, we already ha ye a pleating pre
sage our statute book will now be
purged of all obsolete and contradictory
laws, and the whole fimplitied so as to be
easy of comprehension to tiie meanest capa
city."
O-' Wednesday the 2d inft. JcJ!;va Claylcn,
Etuuire, was elected Governor of the itate
of Delaware.
O : the 3d inft. was celebrated in New-
York, the completion of the third century
lince the d'feovery of America by Columbus.
On this occasion a monumental obelisk was
exhibited by the Tammany Society at their
Great Wigwam ; where an animated ora
tion on the great nautical hero was deli
vered by J. B. jo/infon, E'buire.
John Paiton, Efqr. is elected a Repre
sentative in tiie Congress of the United
Stata*, from the State of Delaware.
" The good sense of the County cf Suf
folk (fays the Bojton Ccnlinel) will not fuffer
the hon. Fijher Ames to be neple'Cted, as can
didate for the next Congress. They right
ly estimate his abilities and integri'y, and
can fee through the thin veil behind which
his oppofers level their infinuatii ns—There
are several candidates started for \ ce-
President ; but if worth, integrity,& ability
are the objecis of the election, the MafTa
chuletts Solon cannot fail of being re-elect
ed.
It is mentioned in a letter from the town
of Pdterfm (N. J.) that the labourers at that
place (300 in number) are now employed
ju opening a mountain of free stone on or
near the spot. which will not only cxpe
di:e the buildings but save several thqufund
pounds expence from its vicinity to the fcitc
of the town. Preparation - are alfi; in con
templation, it is said to erect a church there
for the life of the manufacturers and neigh
bourhood.
On Saturday last the President of the
United States arrived in tl.ls city from his
feat at Mount Vernon, Virginia.
Information has been received from Go
vernor Biount (Territory south of the
Ohio) that the Cherokees of the five lower
tow us on the Tenr.eflee had declared war
■, against the United Sates on the nth of Sep
tember. S: that from three to fix hundred
warriors had set out upon an expedition a
gainfl the Frontier settlements. 1 14 confe
rence of this intelligence one regiment ol
the militia of Washington diilrift was or
dered out—On the j sth of September,
however news was received, that some
Jeadingtnen had prevailed with the Chero
kee I ndians that had collecled to go to war,
to disperse and return to their homes.
A gentleman at Fort Franklin in a letter
dated Sep. 27. writes thus to his friend in
this city : " We are in great expectations
of a peace by spring. Complanter with 139
warriors from the Seneca tribe?, from the
Munfies, the, Maflafngue s, f:c. set off about
so days ago for the hofiile tribes, for the
Purpose of endeavouring to outran aver 1
irenc peace. If he dot meet .wi ."»
cess we may expecr a blo;\' w.•
Two men were shot at i t!' on t :
3d in'tan 1 tor defer ti an.
The Nantucket whaline vrir-'c have br '
remnrkablv fortunate the p 1 ■ t.
ing fiih. One ship only br tin oh
rels of oil. and 700 c wt.. o - - i; is 1
markable that the Engtiflf 1 "' v >
fifhertaen have. during i! .. fl
met with but very little fucc
Extract of a letter from a in ;
Marietta, dated < ;
The Indians have 110' beer trouble
some here this season, as the ia •
ly mifchief they have done was 'tl-
a mulatto boy belonging to my
ginning of June lall) and wound 1 a 1
who with him was coming home <;n i
corn-field. Their guns being c
two Indians got between him a. Fort
Hannar ; one with a tomahawk, trr •
with a rifle ; there was no alternative le'"
but to surrender, or to ru'h on them b t
which he did, with his hard on the cot •.{
his gun, as in the act: to fire, though his gi; \
as before mentioned, was not io; >ed v o
of them gave way as he pushed On, th
other (truck with his gun ; he returned the
blow, and thev botH took place ; however,
after a severe conflict, he had the good luck
to get fafe in the fort.
If this was not a fine country, the people
! 1 ere could not live ; confined as they are
by the Indians from perfuing be line fs in
fafety ; notwittiilanding, provilions are
plenty, the people live very well, and enjoy
3 remarkable good state of health."
A iciter from French Broad, dated Sep. 19
ays, " there ar<? hx Laud red Indians outagainft
liis part of tile country. They have killed two
nep of the name of'Gillifpie, who lived 011K0IU
ein, below Knoxville, and that Knoxville is
:vacuated.
A petition hns been drawn up at Winchester,
n Virginia, to bs presented to Corigrefs early
n the er,fuing fcllion, requeuing them to take
nto coniiderauon th • imp opriety of officers ac
ingunder the cxcile laws being proprietors ot
Ills, or any way interested therein.
The public are informed in the PittfburgGa
tetter that a number of speculators are now ran
through the country, gathering dishonest
fein from the i norance of their fellow, citi
zens, by purcTiafing unfatisfied land-warrants
join their owners, unacquainted with their va
ne. 7"o prevent in some degree their machi
lations, the public are informed that these war
ants worth ten pounds per hundied, with in
ereft from their date.
The fcicncc of public paper, one would ima
gine, ought to be rendered as hmple as possible,
nllead ot being oveilhadowed with that Jludiecl
■bjcunty which more or less envelops the mont
?d concerns of almost every nation, in this par
lcular branch. There is no science but may
le made plain by laying down and explaining
he firft principles; but by presenting the com
plex fabric without clue or explanation, the
:ommon enquirer is at once loft in a labyrinth of
.Uncertainty —To this source of obfeurity may
rcquently be traced the dream of imposition ;
and my ftery that leaves the designing at liberty
to slate or nu - i jte without fear of dete&ion.
Is are fn que inly lo contrived that like
ihe witches prayer, they may afford a double
(Hfliuctioc-, and exhibit equal plausibility, whe
ther read backward or forward — Hence certain
Pecuniary advantages arercftrißed to a few, and
alt ho' 1 man may be eagle-eyed in other mat
ters, it he be not one .91 thofefew, and admitted
into the political holy of holies, he forever remains
ignorant and bund to these mysterious affairs.—
The dullefl genius, however, when once initi
ated, is equal to the biighteft ; iris even a com
mon observation that gravity succeeds belt in
such matters —
44 So helve If tenfrom Schuylkill"*s brink
A flock of ocefe jump down together
Sum, where the bird of Jove would Jink,
Andjwimming, never wet a feather."
A letter from a gentleman in Charleston,
S. C. dated Oct. 1. mentions two frolts to have
happened in the neighbourhood of the Wateree
river, previous to that date ; a circutnflance ex
tremely uncommon in Carolina. —The lame
letter *' J am sorry to inform you the ac
counts from the frontiers are very alarming :
the different tribes of Indians, hoftileto us, have
been joined by the towns of our former friends,-
the Cherokees, and appear rather wifhful for
war. Many of the frightened inhabitants have
abandoned their homes, and the whole frontier
is, in a manner, defnted. From reprefeutali
ons made by Gen. Pickens and Col. Anderlon
the governor has lent up ample supplies of war
like flores, and ordered a magazine of flour, &c.
to be deposited in Abbeville countv; and the
militia on the frontiers to be muflered and re
viewed, and to hold themselves in readim ls for
immediate service. Bodies of horle are like
wise railing there. Cen. Pickens is but lately
returned from the nation and has no idea, or
bppe, of any pacific dif, ofition or measures from
;he Indians. Fiom circumstances, there ap
pears a general league among the Indians, and
as this is the age of revolution, who knows but
'.lie infuhed, long abused aborigines of the west
ern world imend to attempt the regaining ol
their native foil ?"
The following is extracted from a letter
received on Monday from Charleston —
'* Capt. Robert Maxwell and a Mr. Spenr?,
an Indian trader, "are arrived here with dis
patches from Gen. Pickens and Col. An
'he following purport : " that a
i eek war may fiiortly be expoct
•lace ; that the four lower Che
ns are koltilely disposed. and
concert with the Creeks. A bo-
Cherokees, Creeks, and Shawa
about 500 men, are now out,
i.ipofed will fall upon the fettle
umberland or Holftein. Col.
as created four block-houses on
rs. An old trader by the liaitoe
: 1 with another trader, hath been
1 1 • lie Creek nation, and a Mr. Shaw,
1 : om Cdngrefs, narrowly efcapeil
he nie ite : and whicli was prevented
.. !••:»? Indian women, who gave Mr.
Si w ti.,Kl) notice thereof, fothat he made
Mi Gen. M'Gillivray is now at
I nlacola—lt is the opinion of the back
; uirirry tiiat every Indian tribe from Lake
■ ,rie to the gulph of Mexico will, i'l the
I course of tins .viiiier, be in a state ot war
ire with the United States."
L.-.ft Saturday night, a gentleman who
lod •<! at a relpi 'table inn of this city, was
'oniid in his ch; "ber to be ki convulsions,
of which he e :pired, notwithffanding the
immediate aliiftance of the faculty, who
re called on ihe occasion. It was soon
- i tfcovered that a four-ounce bottle of lau
danum had been emptied, by this unhappy
f man, to procure the effect ; but had the o
piate failed, ire was doubly armed againfl
ex'nience, by a cafe of loaded pistols, which
1 was found under his pillow. The lauda
[num, however, proved Sufficient. It ap
pear... that this gentleman has a partner in
1 trade in Virginia, and a brother at Green
ock. in Scotland. A letter was found ad
droiled to his partner, and a will, bequeath
! i;v e rtiidue of his property to his bro
; tli after bis debts Were paid; and, it is
sri _cl, he was in affluent circumstances.
grand jury of Charleston diflxift,
I (S. recommend in a late presentment
; l, the I.Mature, to inflifl foine other pun
-1 ifmi.t :u :!:• ■n a fine upon those mailers, See.
who are guilty of murdering negroes.
Y.'e have the fatisfaftion to acquaint the
: pubic, that a contrail is closed with the
, po-t-malter-general, for conveying the mail
of the United States from Staunton, in
\ lrginia, to Danville in Kentuckey, to
' commence oil the ißtli of October.
The event of the present despotic com
bination in Europe will, in a great inea
■ sure, determine the question whether na
-1 tions are worthy 10 govern themselves by
: -periodical representation, or whether it is
I necefl'ary in the nature of things and from
i the condition of mankind, that they (hou'lei
| be governed by hereditary matters, edtica-
I ted for that purpose, and fiipportetl by mi
litary ftffce. One thing feemi certain, tha
the more the world is enlightened and true
philosophy gains ground, the more the go
vernments of every people will necelfarily
! verge towards, and at length embrace the
republican fyfteci. Royal domination i,
plainly calculated for ignorance ; for," in
j proportion as. the mind is darkened, it
owner partakestaore or less of the nature
' of a machine, which, to be of any ferv ice,
' must be actuated by some co-ercive power.
Hence, it ought to be the firfi and great
1 care of those who are friends to genuine
republican government and the equal rights
of man, to promote true and rational know
; ledge among the individuals of a nation, as
; the only certain method to eftablifli the
mode of government that philosophy has
ever admired, but has generally oinfidered
as unattainable- Government may be call
ed the mould of man ; and perhaps his
j wickedness is more to be imputed to the
; falfe modes of domination tiiat have pre
vailed, than 10 anyfault of nature : nature
has spread before our species an abundant
feaft, but the unequal dijlribution that royal
tyranny has always made to its slave ,i s the
great cause of the miseries and convuldons
we may trace thro' every pail age as well
as those of the prefeiit day.
By a repo't or a com niittec of the directors of
New-Jeifey nianufaSfirinc society, 11 appeart
, that there ha ; been paid in by the subscribers,
111 full of the firft payment, and part of the fe
-1 cond 160,2C0 dollars yj ccnis —That there
had been expended for the purchase of lands at
Palaic falls, 14,139 dollars 37 a nts —for ma
chinery, materials, &c. 7500 dollars—for hor
le-, oxeri, carts, and waggons, 720 dollars—
wages, salaries, &c. 12,545 dollais 43 cents —
; veiled in bills of exchange, and lent to Europe
■ on account of the society, which have been no
ted for non-accepiance, and in jeopardy, tho a
piobability of laving perhaps 50 percent, 50,00 a
dollars—in the hands of Mr. Duer, ur.accoum
ed for, 10.000 dollars—ln cash and deferred
■ flock of the United States 65,295 dollais 63
. cents. —It further appears boin the repoit above
; mentioned that the dirctiois have ellabhfhed
the leat ot the manufactory at the town oi Pa
• tei lon, at the foot of the great falls, where they
r arc proceeding to eflabiifh ihe co:ton manufac
tory and the printing and flaiiiing of calico.—
. , Near two hundred hands are employed in le-
J1 veliPj; a mountain, and in carrying on ihe luild-
oiher woiks—f-Mr. Peier Colt, tiom
-1 Connctficut, is appointed fuperiiitendcnt.
1| A correspondent, who has lately visited ;ht
f'c.eitcd toun of paterfon, remarks that ih:
; 1 want of tptinjJS in and about the feat of the ma
- [ nufaflory, will prevent the linens &c. beinj
, bleached to advantage, the river water beinf
-j rarely or never clear enough for that purpose
- ■ He adds, that snares have been repeatedly of
fere(3 for sale at New-York for two dollar?,
the Original fu-blctyprion for which was twenty
dollars—that the plan of the society gave gene
ral dtfyfuft to the domestic manufacturers in
Ncw-Jerfey, and that great part of the fix miles
square was-run out in the night to avoid giving
umbrage to I'armers in the Vicinity."
The number of persons lately inoculated i n
Boston, is Hated in one of their papers at nine
thousand three hundred and eighty four, of
whom one hundred and ninety eight died, which
is in the proportion of about oneiojci ty.
The light house on Cape Henrv in Virgi
nia, is now nearly finifhed ; and the lamps, we
are informed, will be lighted by th* middle of
November. — A light house was formerly begun
In the fame spot by the sffembly of Virginia,
when a province, but was proceeded on no fur-
Upfer than the foundation. The immense coaf
ling and foreign trade of Maryland and Virgi
will now have a sure dire&ion from theoce
m into the bay, through one of the best channels
n the United States.
Thomas Sprig, Esquire, is elected a repre
sentative in Congress from the ftste of
Maryland, for the fourth diftrift of that
late.
It a full meeting of the Polemic Society of
Loudon county, Virginia, Sep. I, 1792.
DAVID THOMAS,in the chair.
Jpon the most mature deliberation, the Society
agreed to the following re solutions :
I. Rcfolved, That it>« the opinion of this fo
:ietv, that the government of Virginia remains
h a dangerous (it/ation, being in a lingular cir
:um(lance from other Hate in the union.
11. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this
ociety, that yirpnia has no legal conttitution;
jecaufe the people who ele&cd the convention
n 1776, had no idea ol independence and a per
manent republic : and, therefore, did noi \ ft in
he convention any authorities other than those
)f the oidinary legislature.
111. Resolved, That it is the opinion of
his society, that the constitution under which
ve ast, is lo conftrudted, as to have a tendency
o involve in it a system for perpetrating an arif
ocracy,
IV. Resolved that it is the opinion of this fo
iety, that the ordinance of the convention of
-\ptil 1776, entituled, " A conttitu'ion or form
)f government," like all other a&s of legillation*
s liable to be altered by lubfequent lesiflatures,
joirefling equal power with themlelves. We
herefore think it ncceffary that it fhoujd receive
uch amendments as time and trial have
ed, and be rendered permanent by a power lu-
to that of the ordinary legislature.
V. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this
ociety, that the citizens of this commonwealth
)ught to petition the aiTemblv for a law (upon
he piinciples of equal reprefenraiion) anthori
:ing the people to ele£l delegates to form a con
tention in order to frx a conlliuition upon the au
hority of the people.
Signed, on behalf of the society,
David Thomas,chairman.
Stacy Taylor, secretary.
■» . ■ 1 . . .. r . *
Manufactured and for Saie,
At No. 1 [, North Sixth-Jlrcet,
Fafluonable Rouqd Top an-d Flat:
BUTTON S,
IVarranted fnperior to any imported of
equal price.
Country Store-keepers supplied either in
small or large quantities. By
S. POST & Co.
N.B. Coijcfhel Buttons, Bucklcs, See.
Oft. 17. Gawtf
gentlemen that yet remain
offu'tf ilption pejers of HovvplTs la:g2
are hereby notified (as well allo'tli- >uMic
iu general) that no fubferiptions will be rec iv i
or accepted after the date hereof, and th;.: rl /
bp pleased to traofmit the said fa<-rs to the f.
briber as soon as fafe opporfunity fiiaM f ;, s
the Maps which are now rrc?ived will bo !' v ' \ -
rd at his own house in North Fifth a" r. Phila
delphia. READING HOWELL.
G&. i 3t
TAKE NOTI C E.
WHERF-ASa mulatto man named L L K.F;,
the property of th in . r living in
Accomack county, "Virginia, ::n awav from
him on the firfc day of Srptemix-r 1 fl, and v f;
up and to the v ;.Vol of Nc r
tle county, in the State of Delaware, on the 1. th
day of September, where he re;., until the
4th of this instant, C£iober, when a *Ir. 'ones,
who said he lived in Frederick Town, ii: the
county of Cecil, in Maryland, appeared and p.o
duced a Benjamin Fergnfon, who made o.ath
that he fufpetled the said Have to be a t reerar. n,
named John Wright, who had failed with the
laid Fergufon in a fchooncr to the said
{ones, and had committed a burglary on bonrd
;>fherin July last, in consequence of which the
'aid Have was delivered by order of the hon.
David Finney, a supreme judge cf the said flats
of Delaware, to the said [ones, to take his trial
for the said supposed oilr-nce. As lam fully
convinced from the defenption of the said
ftWe, given to me by the gaoler, hat he is n:v
property, and that the said Fergufonhas miflaken
him for Wright, I do hereby dirt-61 the said Mr.
Jones, and Fergufon, to mum the said (lave to
the place from whence they took him, and to
inform me thereof, otheiwife I fliall proceed
according to law.
JOHN CROPPER, Jim.
061. 16th. 1792. 2a. w.ew.The following is an Extra 61 from an Address to
t!ie Eie&ors of th*f State of New-Jersey, that
appeared in the New-York Journal of the
JGth imlant.
U the new government was infli-
VV luted, an arrangement of the public
debt became : iunory petition* were prc
fentcd to CuHgrefs, pra>ing that some mode might
be adopted to afccrtain the value of cerriiicattSj
it mi 1a r Co other papei money that had been emit
ted.
The representatives from the state of Virginia,
and levera! from the other ftaies, urged the juihcc
of (h? applic?tion ; and the hardihip that origin
al creditors fhouUl oe taxed to redeem a certificate
at 20-". chat chey fold for as 6d. and was liquidat
ed in the courts ot julVice by a scale of deprecia
tif>n in payment of all debts from one individua
to another, and discriminated byCongrefs and the
several states in the (ale of all public property, anc
reji itcd in pajment us any public debt, unlets ai
the current value and rate of exchange. 1 here
fue these genrifmeii proposed a revifal ot thi
several species of paper that constituted the pub
lie debt, and the pofleiTor of a 1 genuine certifi
cates to receive the current value with interefi
and the re.'iduf remain in the public treasury un
til called for by the original creditor* In confe
quence of these arguments, Col. Hamilton, fecre
tarv to the treasury, reported, that as the mun
enlightened citizens now having become pubd'n
creditors, not to pay them would be a breach o
faith—whereby the idea of discrimination was ex
ploded*
Mr. Boudinot being speaker for the member
from New Jersey, with great perfeveranct urgei
the full pa)ment of all certificates, both principa
and interett, in gold or silver, to the purchasers—
and quoted the condu6l of parliament ir. the foutl
Tea and Millifippi schemes, being dire£ily againi
discrimination ; for though they impriloned th
dire&ors, and confifcared their property, yet tie
never interposed in the transfer of stocks. II
laid the original creditors might have kept thei
certificates : that a revifal of the public oebt wa
?ff)pra6lic»ble, because the greatelV part (exeep
the army debt) was in fictitious certificates j am
quotes himfeif as having received large lums ii
that manner.
That notwirhftanding the army had been paii
in paper at zs 6d. in the pound, they were full;
paid j and the other 17s. 6d. was no more than ;
xeafonable profit jurtly due to those who coofid
eJ in public faith. *
In reply to Mr- Boadinot, I beg leave to ob
serve, that so is the force of piejudice when
interest is predominant, that this gentleman di<
not advert to original creditors confiding in publii
faith, if our arms were fuccefsful, or if the man
aCter the dangers he had been exposed to, and re.
tiring from the field to look upon his diftrefle<
wife and the little brood he had left, had beer
steeled a?ai;ift natural attentions j or the farmer
whose fe.ices had been destroyed, and his ftocli
dicninifhed, by public demands, could have le
placed them by the word of hij power, they migh
have kept their certificates. You are sensible
when your accounts were fettled by the commil'
fioners, a certificate was given in your name, ant
none were ilVued in the name of one man tor «
deb: due to another j and how Mr. Boudino
came by large fuirs of fictitious f certificates,
refer you to Mr. Scott's speech in Congress, Feb
39,1790.
In Mr. Jackson's reply to Mr. Boudnot, or
the south lea and Miflifippi fchmes, he observed
that they were a company of men who had per
Siiliton from government to go up the Miliilipp
and into the south leas 011 their private a iven
ture j but committing enormities, | governmen
intei poled. He said ourcaufe was different ;w«
were an independent nation, and had a right t<
modify our own debt, and to do justice to thofi
men who took their lives in one hand, their pro
perty, their gun and bayonet in other, anc
implicitly obeyed the order of the commander ii
chief, until our revolution was completed, and al
Europe acknowledged our independence—and ha<
they proved uuluccefsful, neither life, liberty, no
retribution would have been their lot j and onl
such charaders as, § whose principles were vvel
known to our enemies, ana those who could provi
their attachment to the British gove: nment, wouli
have been the owners of the fruitful foil of New
J.rfey.
Mr. Boudinot farther observed, that publi
opinion was not in favour of original creditors re
cciving any farther compensation j but on thi
contrary, as having been fully paid.
Mr. Moore from Virginia, replied that publi
•pinion ought to be regarded in a cafe of thi
magnitude ; and if it wa* fairly taken, nine ou
•f ten would be in favour of discrimination j tha
it certainly was their wifli to do justice, and b
understanding the fubjetf, public opinion will ue
termine whether the patriot who had loaned hi
money, the bravery of your militia for seven year
in preventing the enemy from penetrating int
our country, and exposing themselves to be hang
ed upon trees,and the myft cruel and ignominiou
deaths and imurifonment in New-York ; an*
your reputation through an eight years war
while so many of their companions were slain 0
perished in the attempt j and the virtuous farm
crs of New-Jerfev. who persevered from the be
ginning to the end of an arduous and hazardou
war, and never failed to contribute their la(
mouthful of provilion sot public use (when re.
quired) ought to be fatisfied with receiving tJB
infteadof 20/. and paying the other 17/6. due t<
them to speculators and strangers, is for you to de
termine. By equitably apportioning the publii
debt, a blessing would be on our representative:.—
the widows and fatherlefs who had loft all othe
dependence, except this (by the decrees of nature
would have been made to sing for joy ; the furviv
"in? foldier,after seven years carved out of the priii <
of his life, now pining in retirement, nursing hn
fhattcred frame, wou'.a have been able to pay hii
little debts 5 the farmer to compensate for the ad
vance pries of 30 per cent, on all the foreign ai
tides he consumes, arH a duty r»n yzxt of hi'
» See bis Ipcecbes in Cougrefs.
•f- The definition, fictitious, is counterfeit.
"I like the /peculators in New-York,
§ Messrs. L'vvermore, Sedgwick, Strong, J2ou-
Sineckjon, (tfc*
own producf, would have received a balance ac
cording to his advances, and the example of jul
tice WTuld have riveted in us an implicit confi
dence in oar legislators, and a remembrance as
the virtues of our firft Congref*. But there be
ing a majority against the measure, and b) mak
ing a law to accommodate themselves, gave the
people of England, who had deltroyed near one
hundred thousand of our inhabitants, aod thole
who by being our enemies had accumulated Ipe
an opportunity to purchase our public debi
for small consideration j these men having access
:o the ferrets of Congress, and advantageoully
pofiefiing themselves of this property, they now
remain and emigrate among us to enjoy a land ol
iberty, and riot with the fruits of our labour.
Dollars.
At the end of the war the
soldiers reeeivea for
their last three year's
service, a final settle
ment note for about ZOC
The current value of this
note was 25
The purchaser has receiv
ed a nctt profit of 125
I he public have paid 150
1 hev have also laved by
one half the intereitand
2 per cent, on the prin
cipal* 50 2G<
The farmer who rendered
supplies to the amount
of 20c
Has received in purchase
of public property, or
by sale 5©
The public or purchaser
have received a profit
of 100
The public have paid 150
There remains a balance of 50 20«
This remnant beir*g an objedt with the fpecu
lators, Mr. Morris from the Senate, and Mr
ritzfimons from the House of Representatives
nave each of them introduced two petitions, unde
the signature of original creditors (that have beei
patronized bj a number of the members) de
manding the said residue to be paid to the holder
of certificates, by augmenting the 3 per cents
nd making the deferred debt 6 per cent stock
These petitions will be annexed to a pamphle
chat will be circulated among you for your in
formation, containing the debates on the fundinj
aw.
Notwirhftanding these gentlemen have receive!
a nett profit of 125 dollars from the wages due t<
;ach continental soldier, and 300 percent, on thi
iioney due to the farmers, they are pre/ Ting so
he remainder.
If by a candid enquiry it fhail appear from thi
jublic bonks and other documents, that your re
refentatives have been speculators, and for mer
:cnary purposes have palled the funding law, an<
:6nverted your property and the painful earning
)f the well-fought field to their own use, no doub
, 011 will elect gentlemen who are disinterested
hat evils of this magnitude in future may be pre
rented.
A CONTINENTAL SOLDIER."
[To be continued. J
The fvbfequent lines were written by a person wfu
fomr timefince emigrated from Scotland, to Ji
his residence in North-Carolina.
O SCOTIA, my dear native foil,
Heaven bless your ever honco r 'd ifie !
Wnere freedom once with cap ana wand
o'er a happv land,
And reared her sons of brighter fame,
Stout-hearted, dreading nought but Cname,
[nur'd to war, accompl.fh'd high
In all its arts—but how to fly :
fn peace eftrang'd to courtly art
Plain, hospitable, kjnd of heart;
Till for a rival nation's gold
Thy people and their monarch dj
She saw, oppreflive, o'er the land,
The taxes, toll*—a tyrant baud,
Led on by legal power, invade
Their rights, whom venal guilt betray'd,
f-!er sons, their wonted fyirit broke,
Submitting tamely to the yoke :
She saw !—but scarce endur'd the li^ht,
And to Columbia urg'd her flight :
Here following, we, wliere freedom led,
Beheld once more her banners fyread j
Wh le crown'd fuccefsful o'er our foes
Fair future profpe&s brightening rose,
When, fafe, we hop'd beneath her smile
To reap the harvest of our toil j
But in a few unsettled years
The tyrant band again appears,
Invades our rights '-—while darkening fact
We fee those profpe&s over cast j
Again, presaging heavier things,
The goddess spreads departing wings
To leave us wretched as before,
And seek some other—happier Ihore.
Mecklenburg, (N. C.) Sept. 25.
OURANG-OUTANGS.
THE period is eviaently advancing when th<
negro Have trade wi!l cease and the slavery of tht
human species be every where a: an end. It be
comes those persons, therefore, who find it neces
sary that their under work Ihould be done by sub
ftiiutes, to turn their attention to the kingdom o
Vlonomotapa, in Africa [eattward of the caje t1
Good Hope] where exist several tribes of the
Ourang Outang, or man of the wjods. Their
creatures are f id to be very docile, of an imitative
capacity, and poflefiing other qualifications from
nature which would in a lhort time render them
excellent house-servants. As they are evidently a
diftinft race, and altho* they walk erect, decidual.
n;>t of the human species, Mr. Wilberforc
an have no argument to oppose 10 this new plan j
>ecaufe the fame argument would tend tu set free
every an ma! of an inferior species, now
to a dorncltic and laborious purposes.
New-Jersey Confiscated Lands.
WHEREAS the firft purchaser did not
comply with the conditions of sale >
thib is to give notice that he following trait c
land, containing fifty acres and thirty nine hon
dredths, ftri£t meaiuie situated in Hardifton town
(hip, near the road that lead 9 from Elijah O!
lards, deceased, to Paulinfkiil, late the propert
ot Oliver De Lancey, will be fold at public vendue.
The sale to begin on Wednefiiay the 28th da
of November next, at 2 o'clock in the afternoon
at Sussex courthouse j and betides caih, the fol
lowing date obligations will be received in paj
m?nt, to wit, —Officer and soldiers notes giver
for the depreciation of their pay— notes given to
the militia of this Hate for the arrearages of thei
pay—certificates liquidated by Silas Condidt—antf 1
notes given by the Trcafuter of this state to per
Tons who had demands against the confifcateu
eltaiea of New-Jersey.
JOSEPH GASTON,
A gent for SufTex county.
o<£t. 24, 1792. 4w.iaw.
To THE PUBLIC.
THE fublcriber returns his molt reipeCtful
compliments to his friends, and the public
the many favours he has received, and btg»
eave to inform them that he has upon hand, a
few fine toned FORTE PIANOS, which he wil>
warrant superior to any imported, and which he
■uiH difpoTe of on reafonabte terms.
The great number of Forte Pianos lately
mportedJ~rom London and Dublin, induces the
fubferiber to caution the public against the artful
nfinuations of persons, commilftontd to vend
:hem, who for a very trilling compensation re
:ommend instruments that are nothing but the
£efufe of European mufic-lhops, and imported a:
a mere trifle, and fold for the lame price as a gooc
instrument, to the great dilappointment of the ig
norant purchaser, who generally pay as much foi
repairs in a \ear or two, as the original cost of a
jood instrument.
N. B. Musical instruments let out bv th.~
month or quarter, likewiie musical inftrumems
runed and repaired in the belt manner, and on the
mod rcalonable bv
CHARLES TAWES,
No. fco, Walnut near Third-ltrcet.
O&ober io. 4t
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale by the Printer,
JohnM'Culloch, at No, r. North Third-
Street, and by most of the Book-
Sellers in this city,
(Price 3/9)
MODERN CHIVALRY:
Containing the
Adventures of Capt. John Farrago,
and
Teague O'Regan,
his Servant.
VOLUME 11.
By H. H. BRACKEN RIDGE.
Quicquid agunt Homines nojiri, Farrago libelli.
J uvena
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale at the Printiiig-OlHce,
No. 20;, Market-Street, •
ind at Thomas Dobfon's Book-Store in
Second-Street,
Price Three-Eighths cf a Dollar,
ADVICE
TO THE
PRIVILEGED ORDERS,
in the
SEVERAL STATES of EUROPE,
Resulting from the neccflity and pro
priety of a General Revolution in
the Principle of Government.
By Jo El. Barlow, Esquire.
BOOKS,
Printed and fold by
MATHEW CARE Y,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia'
l• American Museum, from its commencement,
n January 1787, to "June tn eleven volumes
Price, neatly bound and lettered, Seventeen dollars
and tb>ec fifths,
7bis work which is row C>nduElcd on an im
proved plan, containing the bej} pieces publ'Jben for
and against the proceedings of government, will be
found to contain at leajl as great a variety of poli
tical, agricultural, andmijullancous efj'ays, as any
tverpublijhed in America. Perhaps in no one work
are Jo many valuable documents rejpffling the histo
ry of this country, collected together, his excel
lency the Prejidei.t of the Untied States, has de
dared of it, that " a more ufeful literary plan
iias never been undertaken in America, nor one
nore dtferving oi public encouragement. ** 7be
übjeription is two dollars and a half per annum.
Gentlemen in the country who wijh to be supplied
with this work, are reyuejled to give comnujjion to
friends in the city to jubjeribe jor and receive it.
2. Smith's letters to married women, on nursing
and the management of chidren. " We r ecommerd
befe letters to theperujal of tboje to whom they a-e
particularly add' f jJed»' Monthly Review. Vol. 38,
Page 10 J. Price bound fve eighths of a dollar•
Duncan s elements of logic. three fjurtbs of a
col-ar,
4. Beauties of Fielding, 50 cents.
5. beauties of Blair, 50 cents.
6. Ladies* Pocket Library—ccntainirg :—MiJ*
Morels F-fjays j Gregory*s Legacy j Lady Pen
mngton s aavice ; Marchionejs of Lambert's ad
vice j Swift s letter to a newly murried lady J
Mrs. Chapcne on command of temper j More s fa
ales for Ihe ladies-+--Price 6/6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Price a dol
lar and a quarter^
7> Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, 1.1.d. profrjjor of moralpbilcfopby and logic
In the Marijcbai C .liege, Aberdeen—Price three
fourths of a doll< r. Of this book the Critual Re
viewers (vol, 6c,. p. 628) Jay : i( We have jeen
nothing on these fubjeils more lain, more perfpicu
us, or more genera ly ufefuW'
9. Beauties of Poetry y P rice four fifths of a
dollar.
10 Blair's Sermons,- Pricetivo dollars,
li. Neckar's ' Trcatije on the importance of reli
%ious opinions. Price four fifths of a dollar.
12 Examinat ion of the objervations of Lord Shef
field on American Commerce. Price, on very fine
papery five eighths rf a dollar,
13. The Conjlitutions of the several United States p.
I'jith the federal Conjiitution } &c* Price five
eighths of a dollar,
14 M'Fingal, Price three eighths of a dollar.
r s* American Jell Book, three fifths of a
dollar,
16. Garden of the Soul, ha'f a dollar,
17. The Douay Tranfiation of the vulgate Bi
blein qu irto. Price, ecgantly bound and lettered %
$0/2---p'a>n, fix dollars.
Said Caiev has for fale> a large assortment of
Looks, Eurtpean as 'well as Amen',an editions >
which be will dispose of on the most reaj nab e terms *
Country gentlemen, tube favor him with commands,
may depend upon being Jupplied in the mofiJjtisfac
tory manner. A liberal allowance tc fucb as pur
< base quantities for public libraries, or to fell a 'sain,
Ma ><7- 6 ra .,a.w.
Terres a Vendre
Dans un pais b::n penp/e,
S AVOIR, taixante cinq milie, trois cens, foix
ante et quatorze Acres, en one feale pi«c,
uaris le canton le mieux peuple at la Caroline Me
ridionale, leDift.idde Ninety.Six. Ces ier.es
("lilt fituces clans une contree friable, et l'alubre,
ou les fievres font inconnues; a environ vingt lieuej
de Colombie, la Cjpita'e, tt continues aia ville
de Cambiidge, ou il y a College, et'Cour fuperi
eure. A environ douze lieues, ily a bonne navi
gation jet il eft tres probable, que ilan? quelque
temson r c ndra navigable le Grand Saiude, rivers
qui arrofe les terres meinrs. Ellcs font sgrcable
ment divcififit-es de coteaux et vallons chariiiann
propres i la culture du tabac, au coton, do mai,
et du petit grain jet dont une proportion consider
able le peut aifement convertir en prairies t'eiti!es,
il n'ett peut-etrf jucre! poflib!e de rencontrer un«
pareille piece ce terre a vendre dans aucun autr*
des E'ats Unis ; et pour les conditions de I'achat,
on les rendra tres commodes.
S'infornisr a I'impiimerie de la Gazette Na
''onaie. Sept. 5.
LANDS FOR SALE,
IN a well fettled Country. SIXTY-FIVE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY FOUR ACRES O'l LAND, ia one
bod>, in the most populous part of tr.e state of
South-Carolina, in the diflricl 0/Ninety-fix-. -It
is situated in a fine healthy climaf, free from fever
& gue,about 6xty tniles from Columbia, the frat
of government. The land is contiguous to the
town of Cambridge, where are a leminary for the
inibuthon of youth, and a superior law court. It
is at prclent within ab< ut tliirty-five in: les of good
navigation, with a probability of having the river,
called the Great Saluoa, that fl nvs along one fide
of the land made navigable. The land is beauti
fully dive, l-fi-d into swells and vales, and is per
fectly well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and (mail grain ; a great
proportion of it may be made meadow gro°und.
There is not, perhaps, such a body of'land, focirl
cumftanced, for file in any otherof the U. States.
1 he terms of payment will be made convenient to
the purchaser or purchaleis. Apply to the Printer
August 29. , awtf
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. OsV/ALD,
(Price Ehvtn Pence i
FIVE LETTERS,
addufl'ed to the
Yeomanry of the United States:
CONTAINING so.De Obfervarions on the
Scheme of Cover.lor Durr and Mr Secrota*
rv Hamilton, to eftjblifh National Manufa&ures
by a FARMER. This pamphlet, so highly in
rerefting at this period, may be had at the follow
ing places : ac Mr. Ofwal i's Printing-Office, Na
-1 56, Market-sheet j at No. 209, Mar'iet- street
at Mr. Dobfon's, 41, South Second-street ; at
Mr. C ukfhanks, 91, Mai ket-flreet j at iMr
•\ it ken's, 22, Market-Oreer } and at Mr. Young's
S. W. corner of Chefnu: and Sscond-ftrcets.
August 21.
NOTICE.
THIS is to so w on all matters of vefTels and
others, ar their peril, not to take a ceitain
mulatto Boy, named Lewis Boget, fojmcrly of
Cayenne, out of ihis city, he being lawfully bound
and apprenticed to m'', untill i6rh Nov. 1793 ;
js I have reason to fufpeft he is endeavouring t>
cave this city. JAMES IvUBERTSON.
Odober 9. tf
PLANS
OF THE CITY OF WASHINGTON.
FOR SALE By
MESSRS. Dobfon, Young, Cruk.hank, and
Carey, in this city.
Sept. 15. 6t.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAIN E,
AT THE!* orncs NO. 2'>9, HIGH - STr itT,
JSSAR FIFTH- STREET,
PXH. ADELrillAt