Vol. I.
'Ike following is the fubjtance of the obferva
tians,delivered by Air. Mliß-Ct-R, in
the Hou/e of R.eprefentatives, in the courjt
cf the rebate on the Frontier Bill.
T Originally opposed the reference oi
J this fubje£t to the secretary ot the
trealury on principles supported by the
conilitution, by the theory ot free go
vernment, and from pra&ical obierva
tion on the progt'eis ot our own,, and
I believe the refalt now before us, '-•.ill
fully exemplify every evil predicted.
Let any man examine this bill, and
compare it with the terms of the origi
nal reference —Let n then be aiked.
Whether the fubmiflion to deviie ways
and means to provide for the defence
of the western frontier, authorised the
plans proposed by the trealury depart
ment, 'that we are now giving sanction
to. Did it authorise a perpetual tax
irrepealable by the whole legillature,
■without a breach of faith according tc
received doctrine : At leafl, so far pla
cing the purie-ftrings in the hands oi
the executive, who may refufe an as
sent to the repeal—in the power of tht
Senate alio, "and confcquently beyond
the reach of the Representatives of the
people, who alone are deputized by, and
may be recalled by the great mas's ef i'o
ciety, and to wnom the conlhtution
expressly confines the power, of ori
ginating money bills ? Have we in truth
originated this money bill ? Do weevei
originate any money bill ? If a refer
ence, such as made to the Secretary,
was proposed to the Senate, who area
branch of the legillature, nearly oi
equal importance with ourselves, would
it not be held a breach of the constitu
tion ? Wejre they to propose such <s
plan as this to us, would it notbe recei
ved with indignation ? Why so little
jealousy of the executive department,
ieparated by„the conilitution with ic
much care from us P Of the treasury de
partment too, which is conflicted in
ether countries as poffefling and cxer
ciling the means of corruption ?—it is
in my judgment a direct infraction oi
the letter and lpirit of the conilitution
of the principles of f:ce government—
and I have he.ird no attempt to defend
it, but on the ground of pitiful evafton,
more difhonorableto ourselves and dan
gerous to the public than an open vio
lation, that would roufc their refent
irient, andenfure oppolition.
But did the fubmilfion of a provision
to defend the frontier, authorize a fyl
tem for the encouragement of manufac
tures ? theieby placing the occupations
and productive labour of our citizens
under the direction of government, and
rendering the living of the artifl and
fubfiflence of the farmer, so far equally
dependent on and subservient to the
views of administration ? Did it author
ise an entire provision for the public
debt, part, present, and to come ? Did
it authoiize a plan for lupplying for
mer deficiencies, which it is admitted
do not exist ? Laflly, did it authorize
an extensive increase of the finking
fund, which we are informed is one of
the principal objects ? It would be an
affront to common sense to anlwer one
of these queries in the affirmative—it
authorized none of them : And yet
these are all its offspring ; these arc the
great objects it produced. It is true
there are in the bill two or three little
clauses that were authorised, and which
relate to the fubmiflion, and which
might well have escaped my attention,
and would probably never attract the
observation of the public, but for the
title—a bill for the protection of the
frontiers.—By these clauses 523.000
dollars of the whole monies to be fore
ver raifcd from this perpetual revenue,
are appropriated for this year's cam
paign. After that sum is expended, we
must even the next year look out for
new taxes, and upon the fame princi
ples, as long as the Indian war conti
By P. FREN "E A U : Pu.blijh.cd Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
THURSDAY, June 7, 1792.
nues (and by the enlistments it is not
contemplated to be of very short dura
tion) new taxes must be provided, for
the refidueof these taxes are by this bil
appropriated to other purposes, for ever
utter 523.000 dollars are paid. I hi:
appropriation is unalterable even by the
whole legillature, unlels by a breach o
public faith or providing other equa,
revenue. Should every year s Indian
war, and every national disaster exculc
administration for laying a perpetua,
tax, equal to the encrealed annual de
mand, it would be. telling us defeats ai
a very high price; and if adminiftra
tion are paid so well, they may b<
tempted to repeat the tragical leprefent
ation.
But what is the reflection that natu
rally arises from a contemplation o;
this bill—that administration will noi
even permit us to defend the helpleli
women and children of the frontiei
ftom the brutal ferocity of the lavage
foe, but on condition that the represent
atives surrender up for ever the lacrec
trust of the couftitution, and place
the power and under the controul o:
the executive and senate, a perpetua
tax—unless they throw the power ol
regulating the labor and industry o,
their fellow citizens into the hands o:
government, and into a mean depend
ence on administration ; and unlels the)
furnifh a large sum of money, under the
denomination of a finking,fund, for the
purposes of speculation, in order te
raise and fall the price of stocks at plea
sure, or as may suit the views and inter
est of the band of favorites that are in
the secret.
Hard and oppressive conditions T—
was this the object of the reference to
the secretary ? it was not the avowed
one, nor could it have been suspected,
from a firnplc proportion to devile
ways and means to defend the frontier.
A mighty fabric has been erected on
this flight foundation —to hurry us inte
the adoption, we have been officially
(I luppofe) informed that the money for
the war department is almost expended
—that the preparations for the western
expedition must stop unless we pas's the
bill immediately—.ind thus with the
tomahawk suspended over our heads,
we must give up to administration the
dearest interests of the people, and fa
crifice the most sacred rights of the con
ftilution.
If any thing can equal the boldness
of this measure, it is the injustice. I
have long remarked in this house that
the executive or rather the treasury de
partment was really the efficient legijlature
of the ceuntry —so far as relates to there
venue, which is the vital principle of
government —the claufc of theconftitu
tion confining to the immediate reprc
fentatives of the people in this houie,
the origination of money bills is con
verted into a committeefhip of fanftion,
that never withholds its assent, a con
venient cloak to divert the blame of
odious mealures from the real authors.
We have heard of corrupt majorities in
British parliaments—l will not fuppofc
an improper motive in any member of
this body, but I am free to fay, that we
appear better train'd than any house of
commons I have yet read of. For if a
minister with them was to attempt to
supply all the ordinaries and extraordi
naries of government by perpetual tax
es, I am persuaded he would risque his
head. The representatives of the Bri
tish nation, the immediate agents of the
people, date not vote away the rights
of their principals and the power of
their fucce'fors. They preserve the
purse-strings in their own hands by lay
ing taxes for the support of government
from year to year—they know no per
manent taxes except those pledged for
certain debts, and even those the whole
nation now exclaims against as the mor
tal poison of the constitution, and the
fettkment for the support of the crown
given in exchange for the feudal and
constitutional rights relinquished by
the king.
When the tax law made its firfl ap
uearance from the treasury department,
petitions against it from the great com
nercial capitals of America, conveni
nt to us, were presented. The peti
loners rcprefented the impositions or
commerce as already oppreilive and in
f ~ . . iv'/i j/utiicaia.
.ves seemed to lyinpathize at fir ft with
leie sentiments. I hope it was not in
:nded to cnhance this mcalure as «
oon in order to demand some greatei
icri£ice as an equivalents But certain
; when these objections were admittec
obe valid, and a proposal was made
o render the evils temporary, by li
miting the bill to a short period, and in
order that it might be cmmjienfurate
with the original purpole, the Indian
uar. the encouragement of manufac
tures, stability in commercial arrange
ments, a variety of new purpoles toi
:oney, former deficiencies, and a link
ig fund were then vaunted forth as the
bjects of the mealure. These were cer
unly never the objects of the refer
• nee, and (hew, at one view, how in
juitous and dangerous it is to blend
;emporsry objects with permanent regu
lations, and connect necelfary and in
■■lilpenluble pfovifions with measures ol
doubtful, il not unjust, policy. Inde
pendent of the constitutional question
of the right of Congress, why should
ve be compelled to conlider the exten
'ive range and delicate refinement ol
jncouraging manufactures by extensive
duties operating as in direct bounties,
under the prctlurc of providing for an
rndian war ? putting out o-f view the ge
neral and irrefragable principle, that
industry will almolt always lelect the
most beneficial channels for its dreams
to flow in, and that for government to
attempt to divert its courses, as it can
anly be done by obstructing in one part
and opening in another, is not only
impolitic and imprudent, but un
juftifiable and tyrannical— yet even
l'uch encouragement, if proper, should
certainly not be permanent. A manu
facture Lhat will not, after a fufficient
[fimulus, support itfelf, ought not to
be encouraged ; when it no longer needs
the aid, it ought to be withdrawn; but
as there is no limitation proposed, as the
law is perpetual, a repeal at any time
would be construed into a breach of
faith, by thole who embarked capitals
an the fuppoled profferred encourage
ment ; but for one moment we should re
collect, that this not only operates un
equally in the fame states, between the
farmer and the mechanic : the staple
Hates are unequally represented in this
government, that we are differently
therefore interested with rcfpetl to ma
nufactures, that these bounties are in
fact paid from the staples of the southern
slates by producing retaliating regula
tions in their only markets abroad, and
railing the price of whut the planters
mud buy at home. In fine, such pre
cipitate measures fecm calculated to
low discontent, in order to reap confu
lion, and out of confufion it is said or
der arises, that is, it gives countenance
to the abufc and desertion of all free
government, and the introduction of
defpotilm in its Head, with respect to
stability in commercial regulations as
neceflary to mercantile calculations—
if duties have a certain limit, calcula
tions may as well be made on that limi
tation as on permanency ; but surely
these arguments have been advanced by
the advocates of the bill with one eye
shut, they have not even squinted at the
part of this fame bill which limits the
continuation of the encreafed duties on
three fourths of the articles of impor
tation to a short period—their hearers
are to be compelled to forget all the ar
guments on the fir ft part before they
are allowed to consider the second.
Numb. 64.
As to the other purpefes and former
deficiencies they were never suggested
until some excuse was to be invented ;
and in this cafe it seems also unfortunate
that this very bill, in one of the latter
clauses, slates, that there is an actual
surplus of revenues of 150,000 dollars?
surely in such arguments there is no re
gard to decency preserved, but in eve
ry view to lay permanent taxes, without
appropriating them to fpecified purpo
ses, is unfafe and unconstitutional.
As to a finking fund, it is a pretext
that will not bear inspection.- If it wai
really meant to discharge the
of the debt, why not early prcfent a plan
as an independent object of deliberati
on ? it is certainly of fufficient magni-»
tude. Why wait until the Indian war
was on the tapis ? but perpetual taxes
are not necessary for a finking fundi
perpetual taxes were never excused
upon any other principle but th«
providing a certain interest to giv®
currency to a fi&itious capitals That
is not the cafe with refpeft to a finking
fund : that should be provided and en
creafed as circumstances will permit,
from year to year ; our successors should
be left as free in this refpeft as we are.
Besides a perpetual tax for a finking
fund is art abiurdity in language, un
lcfs upon the principles of this govern
ment; It is true where we are conflant
}y encreafing our debts, and even wherr
we cannot encreafe them faffc enough,
afluming debts of others, a perpetual
finking fund may be reconciled to the*
fa£l ; but that fa&muftalfo prove that
there is really no serious intention oS
our paying the debt, but that it is con
sidered as the great engine necessary to
influence the motion., of government,
and which mufl ever be preserved wherr
once introduced ; that is the real poli
cy, the use that has been made of the!
(inking fund we now have, will evident
ly demonflrate. I have, it is true, no
official documents, but it has been pub
lilhed in the newspapers, and not con
tradicted ; I have before mentioned it
in this house, and it has not been deni
ed : I mufl therefore believe it to be?
true —that the treasurer of the United
States and other agents for the depart
ment of the trealury, have gone into
narket, and given higher prices for flock,
than individuals purchased at—in thi»
city i2_/~. for 3 per cents when they fold
it to/6 at New-York, —l2/when others*
:ould buy at 10f. Is not this throwing a
way 3/"and 4yinthe pound of the pub
lic money, and betraying the confidence
of the people ? is it not worfe,is it not
deviating so much to sinister purposes ?
It is said that it raises the price on fo
reigners ; the fact is directly the reverfej
it raises the price of foreign property
on ourselves, for they hold perhaps the
greater part of this paper. But on this
principle wc should go on until we fti
muiate the 6 per cents to 30f in the
pound to make it equal to money at 4
per cent, at which rate it is said foreign
ers now lend to us. We certainly ore
their own principles loose more by the
difference between 20f. the ultimatum,
to which we now go, and 30/ Ito
which we ought to go,toraife our flocks
to the price of foreign loans, than we
should loose between 2of. and 15f. or 16f
which is the lowest flocks could proba
bly descend, whilfl we pay the interest
quarterl)\ But it is asked, would go
vernment wish to give lei's than 20f.
The answer is, the money of the people*
ought to be laid out so as to fink th«
greatefl quantity of thedebt. But again,
government had no such scruples when
the debt was principally in the hands
of the original holders ; they bought up
then at 12/ 13\f and 14J or less.and so on.
Why did they not fix then the price at
20f? Why are mere /peculators, (I mean
not to include those who purchase to
hold, for it is their interest to purchase
cheap) dearer to government, than thofc
wl;o havegaincd thefedebts in exchange-foi their "b'C'u or their property? \Vhy
protect those who have pr.rchafec! sof lor
■c/ 6 from the soldier ai d fannei, from
lo.'ing perhap a tem:h of their proats r Why
should gcvernmerft make use of the con
tribution.? of those very injured people
as well as others, to cuc'reafe the advanta
ges of tho'e who have injured them ? Why
l'eleft this particular species of property to
raise its \ alue ? Why 'not raise the price ol
tobacco, rice, and other articles, now so
low ? Have they not been as houeftly
earned ?
In fine, we have opened a small door,
und let us only observe what an host of
evils have entered—and then we are told,
why do we not prepare a fuMirute—after
having compelled us to part with the sub
ject ont ol our hands, and refer it to
apart of the executive ; after it has been
cooped up out of doors, and kept back
until the cravhgs of necessity compel the
admission of part of the proposals : when
-we now wifli to-separate the neceflary and
ufeful from the pernicious parts unjullifia
bly blended and introduced, we are ar
reted by rhe votes of a majority, and eveu
intuited by an abuse of an imputed incapa
city, that if true, would, by degrading the
whole representative body of the people,
involve themselves as w'ell as the minority,
in the ignominy. But surely no two pro
portions can be more readily distinguished
than the increase of revenue for the Indian
war, and this complicated, unauthorized,
unnatural, unconstitutional mixture of,
manufacturing, financial, deficiency, link
ing fund, and Indian war ingredients.
EUROPEAN and ASIATIC NEWS.
LONDON, April 9.
Tuesday evening an express arrived at
the Secretary of State's office, from Robert
Liflon, F.fq. our envoy at the Swedlfh
Court, which broughrthe extraordinary
intelligence that on the 16th of March his
Majesty gave a grand masquerade, to which
all perfoiis of dillintHon were invited ; and
that during the time of their feftivity, a
gentleman of considerable rank fired a
large poflol at the King and lodged five
tings in his groin and the bottom part of
his belly.
.1 he perpetrator of this horrid a£t was
instantly seized ; the account does not fay
whether or not he attempted to escape,
but adds that he refufed to alfigii any rea
son for what he had done.
The express was fenc o;Ta few hours af
ter the event, at which time the King
was alive, but it had been pronounced
impartible for hira to recover.
Information of so wonderful a circum
flance instantly spread over Stockholm, for
there were many hundred present when
the fact was committed. Ail ranks were
in the greatest consternation ; some as
cribing the aflaflination to French politics,
and others to the malcontents of the Diet
at the late proceedings and at the general
conduct and designs of the King ; but from
good authority we can.declare, that nei
ther of these was the cause. The author
of this remarkable event is a native of
Sweden, and it is supposed he was itimu
lated to it by disappointment, having served
long in the army, without being reward
ed sb liberally as he conceived his merits
deserved.
Guftavus the Third,' King of Sweden,
was born in 1746. and succeeded his father
in 1 "90. He poflcfles abilities greatly supe
rior to those of his predecefl'or, and had
much more ambition : his underlfanding
had been cultivated, he had an insinuating
acldref , and a graceful and commanding e
locution. He was at Paris when his father
died, and soon after his arrival at Stock
holm twore to preserve the conftitiition as
eftabliihed in 1772, and not to introduce ab
solute He did every thing to
gain the affection of the nobles ami the peo
ple ; he gave public audiences three times
a week ; and received an injury,
was certain of procuring an'introduction ;
he liltened to the meanest of his fubjefls
with affability, and entered into the minu
ted details that concerned them, bv which
means he made himfelf adored. ' But at
the fame t tme he was fomenting the differ
ences between the States, and, by his emif
ianes sowing discontent among the people,
until finding the bufuiefs ripe, he in one
hour made the whole Senate prisoners, to
tally overturned the mode of government,
rendering himfelf in fatt though not in ap
pearance, one of the molt absolute mo
jjarchs in Europe.
By litters irom Hamburg and Stockholm, we
leant, that die King of Sweden died of his
wound on ihc twenty-ninth of March. The
Jounce Royal has been proclaimed King. Du
ring the m.noritv, the kingdom will be governed
b, the 1/UivC of Sudeimania in the capacity of
Regent.
I he news of the death of the King of Sweden
is confirmed in the most positive manner. This
intelligence has influenced public ciedit, for no
fconer did it reach Hamburgh, but it produced a
life of the exchange with France. It is to be
pie'u.ned that Sweden, in the embariafftnenisof
a intnonty, will not attempt to join the league ol
puiices to which Guflavus \va* so much attached,
Ttid tTiatil-.is evenlvill llac"!:"n t'le ardour of the
Ciuz.ido.s againftthe liberties ot Fl'anca.
Exchange at Fa:is on the 16th of April.
For l-oo hv. liferd money,rs6 liv. in oflignats, s:
icuis d' 01 cGfts 40 hv. 4 lols in aliignats.
Liverpool, -April,s.--On thefixtb of J i
miaiy, as the Tuikifh Grand Su'iuii was at p1 ay
lis 111 the niofque o! Santa Sophia, a leaden bal
ot one pound and an half was thrown at him b)
an Arab, which naitowly nulled him, but wa:
aimed with lo much violence as to break one o
the balultrades upon which he was leaning.
The man, as-has uniformly been the cafe througl
I Europe, tor (oinetime pall, in lelpect to attacks
[upon tovereignty, was found to be an outrageous
I lunatic } bu-t the habits of iufpicion which dil
[ tinguifh the daik policy of the Turkifli govern
> merit, toibid every idea of mercy on this occati
! on. Fie is considered as a member of a conlpi
racy formed to produce a revolt, in the capital;
and, that there may be no revol'., the Grand
Sultan leems to wilh, that there lhould be no
people.
| The Police h.ve orders, which they execute
with very willing rigor, to leize and foict: from
the metiopolisall perlons, whom they do not
know and approve. Every day lince that ot
thealfault, hundiedsot pei lons have beenaccSr
dingly tianlportcdinto Ana, at the will of the
police officers ; and the inhabitants live in a (late
of the utmofl terror, being uncertain eachnighi
1 that they may b« permitted to remain with tbeit
families till the morning.
Mary perlons of conliderable property have
been thus removed, arid upon this occasion, the
ordinary favour aiifingirom religious dillincti
ons has ceased, the Mahometans being treated
with 110 le-Is severity than Christians and Jews.
London, April 3. 1 An artist of thi;
country iiasfucceeded in applying the (leam en
gine to the bufinels of coining. 1 he difficulty o!
us conduction, and its expenfiveuefs, render n
impofiible that it (hould ever be employed by
! thole who counterfeit coin. Its advantages ovei
! the common machine! are various. It works
J much more quickly ; it curs out the blanks: it
Ilampsthe nulling, the tace, and the reverie ol
the piece, at once : the ground receives a fine
J polifii fioni us pn flure alone ; all the pieces aie
\ exattly of the fame diameter : it may be worked
by boys, and its ule requires little prattice.
Bombay, A'cvember 19. —A few evenings
ago, at the camp near this place, a woman had
herlelf burnt to death on tiie fame pile with her
deceased hulband. She came on hoife back,
attended by her relations and friends, to the fpoi
where the pile was building. It was conduct
ed of dry (licks, (Iraw, cow-dung, and bundles
of taggois, &c. and so contrived as to refemblea
hut. Alter taking leave of her friends, and
diflributing prelents among them, (he seated
herfelfon the one fide of the deceased in a lint,
and being furnifhed with a torch, fired the inflam
matory articles below her.—This victim
to a barbarous culfom was Jt handsome.wo
man, about thirty years of age, who as loi>
as any remains of animation were perceiva
ble in her countenance, appeared perfectly
calm and religned, and buoyed up with the
certain hope of receiving in a few moment;
i the reward of her fidelity.—The Spectacle
j was horrible—and leaves us only to admire
at the power of fuperltition, which con
quers the firft principle of natural feeling.
[Thefallowing paragraphs arc from the Ley fen
Gazette. ]
Nuremberg, March 2. Since the two
' Margraviats oi Anfpach and Baieith were ta
ken pofleffion of by the King ofPruflia, the
sessions of the commifiioners of the circle ol
Franconia, which were held there, have
| been suspended. The deputation to Bam
' berg received the fame order. These or
ders, however, were disregarded by the
commifiioners, and they remain aflembled.
From hence we may hazard an opinion,
that upon certain Subjects, the whole circle
of f ranconia \\ ill be soon be of one way of
thinking. Among these is, the friendly re
ception of the French emigrants and their
attendants, to which Frankfort, in parti
cular, seems wholly averse ; not chuling to
follow the example of certain flnereigns.
who while they pretend to discourage their
arming themselves for actual war, Jo ne
vertheless approve their hoflile designs. Ir
con.equence of Such conduit Franconia i
over run with French emigrants.
P A'l ts, March 4. At one of the late d.'.y
of fefiion Of the National Aflembly of
t ranee, it was proposed by oneof the mem
bers, that no one of their body lhould at
tend either at the club of the Jacobins or
Feuillans during the time of fefiion—ano
ther member went still further, and de
manded, that no delegate to that afiembh
lhould appear in any public place whatever
during the hours of fefiion—neither of these
propositions was carried, but set aside b".
the order of the day. The idea, however.
ii adopted,would be beneficial irt its effects.
From the members intermingling with
these violent Societies, a Spirit of difunior
has been gradually generating between the
members of the legislative and executive
powers—This continually excites uneaft
nefsamong all good cidzens. "What will
become of us (lay they) if the court has one
plan, the Jacobins another, and the Nati
onal Alleinbly, a third." The court party
dannotpoTiblyeiit.vti'n art idea of reficr
iag the old d.-fpotic form of government in
all its extent ; it is equally iinpollible that
the conilitution, fuoi) a-s it is now, lhouid e
ver meet their approbation—it is likewise,
perhaps, impoffibie, that the coniiatti'ion it-
ISlf can long fubiiit, coaftrucied a> it now is
upon the plan of a limited monarchy, and
including in itfelf the principles of demo
cratical government, intermixed as it is with
the unnatural patch-work of royalty. The
Minister wasib changeable in his opinions,
and bandied about by parties, that the minds
of the people were soured against him. The
caule of his dismission from ofhte, as well
as that of M. Gahier de Gerville, may
bj mare particularly attributed to the
popular reientment against him for utter
ing his sentiments too freely against .clubs,
and especially the Jacobin. As to the lalt
mentioned famous afibciation, which seems
to increase in boldness (if not in strength)
in proportion as it receives re-iterated at
tacks from small bodies of well meaning ci
tizens, it is evident that if it be fullered to
proceed as hitherto, it will occafiou a fer
mentation in the kingdom, more fatal to
the canfe of the revolution than ali the holt
of its other enemies put together. The
King's Negative (granted him in the consti
tution) has been the sole caiifs of this ruin
ous faction, who execrate it in every lhape.
Upon a full review of French artairs, the
majority of the nation seems to desire and
infill upon a union of all parties, which it
delayed will put France into a dangerous
situation. In the midst of apparent peace
and tranquility nothing is to be seen here
but preparation for war—the wheels of go
vernment are clogged at every step—Liberty
is the universal cry ; but mifunderltanding
each other on the fubjeif (whether volun
tarily or not, we presume not to fay) the
nation, in the mean time is running the
nfque of every lpecies of anarchy. The
Itagnation of impcjls, to which theAlfembly
seems to pay little or no regard, is prepa
ring the kingdom for innumerable difficul
ties and calamities—every month prefent
i-'g a deficiency from 25 to 30 millions ol
livre» in the public expenditures; which il
notjfoon remedied, mull: prove the gulph ol
the immense resources of national property.
1 he substitution of paper for metallic mo
ney is another evil, which gives a Ihock to
the prosperity of France. In fine if there
is not the molt speedy, lincere, and hearty
re-union ol parties (which becomes daily
lelsprobable) we may count upon as cer
tam, the political dilfolution of the noblest
state in the European world.
1 he account of our new coinn , reof cop
per and bell-metal Hands as follows—To
tal value, in livres, 5.662,62 } —-In pieces of
15 foils and 30 lous, to the value of
12,014,995 livres.
f "■ 4 <**>.<■ - . ■ .fc
PHIL A D E L P H I A.
June 7, 1792.
On Monday kill the gentlemen appointed <c
receive the (ix hundred lubferiprions (at tliiity
dollars each) for eftablifliing a turn-pike load
from Philadelj hia to Lat,culler, met in the (late
house in this city. By eleven o'clock, at night,
two thousand, two hundred and seventy fix fliarcs
were fubrcribed for, and the money paid in, a
mounting to near seventy thousand dollars
1 here being an excels oi one thousand fix hun
dred and fevenly-lix (hares, the names of all the
lubferibers were on Tucfday put into a lottery
wheel, and drawn. The 600 fortunate lubferibers
are to be considered as r v in part) a company in
corporated for the purposes mentioned, in the acl oj
(ijjimbly. It is said Ihe value of each share is al
ready advanced to one hundred dollars.
During the few days of hot weather we
have experienced, two person; had nearly
fallen victims to their imprudence by tot
plentiful a use of ice and co:d water.
On Saturday last, the Diligence fire
engine, (conlrructed 011 a new plan bv Mr.
Richard Ma/on, of this a ty) was again "madt
trial of for the fati. faction of those ~whc
«*i h;rl to eye witnefiei to its won
derful effects in the discharge of water.—
When played horizontally, the wnter.wa
thrown to the distance of one hundred anc
eighty feet; and, in a perpendicular direc
tit.ii, to the height of one hundred and fx
ty-lix feet. The superiority of this engine
over all others ever used i:i America, f em:
to give it a decided preference to those ir
common use.
An ingenious mechanic in England has in
vented a wooden Automaton, in the hu
man figure. It is about five feet in height,
walks about the room (by means of springs;
and plays upon several musical inltruments
in the moll natural manner imaginable.—ll
is said the artilt is now engaged in putting
together a figure to repiefeut a singing
clerk, wlik h when finifhed, is to ling a num
ber of psalm tunes, not exceeding twenty
four.
Who would have believed (fays a corres
pondent) in 1" 88, w hen so many appeals
w ere made to the friends of republican go
vernment in favor of the federal conflitu
tion, that in 1792 aftruggle against anti-re
publican and anti-conltitutional measures
lhouid be branded uatli tie epithets which
hare Kec-n ''ntTet/;: i ',-jrjTtt * on tlie; >
rapid change for sb fl.ort a t'me ; and o" n
kind thatmerits the feriou- attention of the
ri-ai fritc? -to tiie coaftitntion in its repub
lic;".] form ! Not less rapid, it i to be ho
ped, w ill be the demonstration that an etw
lightened people will watch o> er the repub
licanism of tiie conftinition they have a
clopted, and diftinguifli between iti real
friends, and the monarchy-jobbers a rut
ltock-jobbers who endeavor to usurp the
name.
The whole number of votes in "the fouthrrn
difirifl of New-York, for governor are 4620
out of which Mr. Clinton has a majority of 138
asJiiind Mr. Jav. —2305 for Mr. Van CortUn'dt
as Lieutenant Governor, and 1773 for Mr. Van
Renflelaer— In Ulfler county, Mr. Clinton h is
"47 votes, Mr. Jay 654 —Mr. Cortlandt 943,
Mr. Van R. nlTclaer 642—Great numbers of
votes are said to be lofl lor want of legality in tha
returns.
On Tuefdav arrived here the brig Nan
cy, Capt. Hsuhawav, from Havre de Grace.
1 his veflel left Havre the 21:1 of April, ar.
which time the affairs of France appeared
to be in a prbfperous way. Since the death
of the Emperor affignats had appreciated ;
and tho' it was reported that the neighbor
ing princes held out threats, yet the people
teemed to be united, and the national af
feinbly were under 110 appreheniions with
regard to the complete eftabliihment of
their liberties.
The state-house garden, on Monday lafb,
witnefied a scene of great bustle and confu
lion. To judge from the croud, and the
impatienceof the people to reach the win
dows, a Granger to the cause would have
supposed they were preffinginto give their
votes in a contetted election for Chief Ma
gistrate : But not so were
receiving for the Lancaster turnpike road.
From 11 in the morning, till near 12 at
nigp.t, the fubfeription remained open, and
when closed, 2276 shares were found sub-
Jcribed. Each fubferiber advanced thirty
dollars on his (hare, this multiplied bv the
number of (hares, makes the sum of 68280
dollars, fubferibed and paid in about twelve
hours. 1 his (hews no scarcity of cash.
Six hundred is the number of (hares lim'ted
by law ; a lottery was therefore instituted
to reduce the fr.bfcriptions to the legal
number : the thirty dollars returned to
..hole advanced to be excluded by that lot
tery. [Gen. Adv. ]
The buckle-makers (fays a London
per) who now humbly presume so much with
their petitions againltJhoef rings, may thank
themselves for the present objea of their
complaint giving them any ci 1 (lurbance. A
very few years iince a gentleman could not
wear a pair of costly buckles (half the price
of which l;e paid for pattern) a week be
fore lie was t.hruft out of tiie fafhion by the
intrulion ot a new Birmingham delign.
This at length tired out the patience of the
public, as it t'xhauited their pockets upon
the mofi infgmjicar.t article of dress, when they
resolved to repay themselves by adopting a
cheaper article, less intrusive to the eye,
and more easy to the wearer.—This was 110
other than the njlored and not newly invented
(hoeltrings, the graceful appendage to En
glilh drapery before puppyism, 01 which it
has been lately charged as the mark, obtain
ed footing among us.
Want of afiurance is not the fault of
some writers.—To employ a country pa
per in openly recommending an abafitiun of
the freedom cf the prrfs, one would imagine,
required a peculiar (lock of eifrontery.
When dragged into the glare of day, and
exposed, the authors of such opinions ought
it lead to be quiet, or, by a public rec ci
tation of their errors, make some atone
ment for thcrime. I nilead of that, how
ever, or inltead of anfwermg any of the di
rect charges made againlt them, they come
or ward, under fictitious liguatures, with
infoient invective and filly insinuations,
without once attempting to defend their
ibfiird idea, that the liberty of the Prrfs ought to
be abridged by government; in direct violation
of the constitution, which left the press per
fectly free, and its real abules punishable
only by the laws of the land. *
A gentleman lately from the interior
parts of the state of Pennsylvania, informs
that the country in general bears the molt
promising appearance of a plentiful harvest.
I'he rye, especially between Lebanon and
Lancaster, is an instance of extraordinary
growth. Its height is so great as to give
tiie oldest apple orchards the appearance
of a low (hrubbery, by entirely concealing
the trunk and lower branches of the tallelt
trees. Some (talks of those rye fields actu
ally measured seven feet nine inches.—
Letters from the Havanna fay, that Gen.
Bowles, continues under close confinement
in the Moro castle, and is treated with all
that rigour which the Spaniards have never
failed manifefting towards any person that
lis found molelting the peace of their fettle
| njents in the new world. No foreigner, 011
any pretence whatever, is admitted to talk
with him, nor is he fuffered the use of pen.
ink, paper, or any other means to corres
pond with his friends in other parts of tl*e
world.By an-arrival at Bo!to:i /Vom Liverpool,
Tnglifli prints are rece ved to t'le 14th 0}
April. Among oMeri a paragraph dated
Hapu, April 3, contains the following in
teresting intelligence :
■ " You pinft have already been informed
of the dreadful event that ha ; occurred in
Sweden. The firft new, of this event wa
brought here by the courier cbfpatched by
Mr. Lifton, the Britilh Ambalfador at
Stockholm. The number of accomplices
arretted amounts nearly to 40. But what
i.i most important, there is a ta kofa revo
lution, which is on the point of breaking
out in the kingdom ; the major part of the
order: of the State have, it is said, already
been gained over. The King had al enated
almost all hi* fubje&s by the manner in
which he had held and conducted the Diet.
In the mean time we are allured that not
the finalleft degree of credit is dne to the
accounts of the pretended tranquility in
which the Diet is terminated. On the con
trary, it is certain there never prevailed a
greater ferment in Sweden.
Some of the persons taken into custody
refolutelv declared that the King had me
rited his fate, and that there were an hun
dred persons to contend for the ho
iiourof givi.ip h.m the mortal blow, for the
welfare of mankind.
This action certainly cannot be juftifird,
but it is, at the fame time, a striking and
dreadful leffbri to fovereigiv, who think to
fanffion tyranny by law, and regard the reft
of men as a vile herd, whom they may dis
pose of at their pleasure.
Accounts from France, till March 28, fay
that the National A'fembly had just receiv
ed information that frefh riots had broke
out in the Department de Contal; infinite
ly more terrible than any that had pre
ceded.
Many have condemned the plan which
was adopted on receiving subscriptions, the
fourth day of July last, for (hares in the
Bank of the United States, as they fay the
payment then required of 25 dollars wa?
too trifling a sum, and therefore furnifhed
the greater field for speculation, by encou
raging persons to venture, who were not
men of property, and had no intention ol
' becoming stockholders, but merely sub
scribed for the purpose of felling immediate •
ly, without ever thinking of filling up those
(hares.—The Canal betwen Sufquehanna
and Schuylkill afforded a still wider scope
for speculation as to the numbers, although
Dot as to value, for there no money was re
quired, and one thousand (hares were fub
j- ribcd for by nearly 5.000 perfons—fc
a lottery could only decide the business.
. The next Canal from Schuylkill to Dela
ware, it was thought, would not befo ea
erly subscribed for, as 10 dollars were not
so ealilv to be spared amongst the middling
class of people for speculative uses—but
here again we find that th's precaution hac
110 effect ; as great a crowd appeared tr
fubferibs for the second canal as for the firfl
And laP.ly, the present I.ancafter road
f-heme, where ;o doila-s .were to be paic
down, exceeded all calculation—for al
though there are only Ceo (hares. upward:
of 5000 persons attended at the flate-houft
on Monday last with 30 dollars in everv man'
hand Surely this must be the richel
country under the fun—for notwithftandinj
it may be said that many were hired or
that day to pay in tbefe 30 doliarsfor other. l
still the money was there on the ground
The perplexities and dangers experienc
ed by the French nation, from having;
l.ing at its head, and a part of itfelf. ought
to make the people of the Unite,! State'
particularly sensible of their good fortune
in being free from such an incumbrance,
and watchful against all attempts that maj
Le made, in whatever form, to bring it up
on them. \\ hether the people of France
Will ever be able to get rid of the burden
of royalty, or whether, all circumstance;
considered, it would be prudent in them tr
make the attempt, may be uncertain : but
it is not to be doubted that if this remnant
of hereditary power Ihould ever be fairl)
diiintangled from their system ; and i-eafon.
right, and republicanifm'be completely efta
bliHied among them, a proposition to re
store monarchy would be received with a
much ftirprife and ridicule, as an attempt
to revive the worship of Jupiter Amnion.
We are informed, that Col. Alexander
Ji'JiLLIVRAy. the celebrated chief of the
Creek nation, died sometime abontthe lat
ter end of April, or beginning of May at
his relidence in the Creek country. ' He
had been for fume years in a declining wav,
with ;• pulmonary confiimption, which gra
dually brought him to the grave.
From a review of the various British
riewfpapers, and other prints, the govern
ment of threat Britain seems to be making
no small llir towards the discharge of their
national debt. Whether the attempt be
sincere or affected, it is aproof the doctrine
is getting out of fafhion there, that public
Mis are public btejings. What a reproach
will it be to America to have picked ui the
out ca(i errors and follies of governments
to which (he ought and profefled to exhibit
the ex imple of a nation conducted to hap
pineft by a pure, simple and rational plan of
publ-c nolle) ! The only confulat'on to out
republican pride is, that the doftrin; here
was the doifrine of the interfled fw only,
who echoed and re-echoed it along with
other fallacies until it began to assume the
lemblance of the public opinion, 'l'he dj
interejted many, being at length aroused to the
pu jiu: interest:, are rapidly (hewing theii
abhorrence of all monarch, cal and ariifocra
tical exotics, and are forcing into theii
government fentunents which prognoili-
Late a change of language on the tendency
of perpetual public debts, and more effec
tual plan; and exertions under a fuller ant
more equal representation of the people,
for the discharge of the debts of this coun
try.
The following paragraph is copied frotr
a Baltimore paper of Friday lass.
" By the brigautine Greyhound, Captair
F.lias Porter, who arrived here in thirteei
;Uys from Cape-Francois, we are inform
?d, that the situation of a'fairs, refpectin
he disturbances in Hifpaniola, wore even
lay a more melancholy afpecl —that all
iopes of peace being reltored, were relin
iuilhed--that the colony was, beyond ;
loubt, irretrievably 101 l that, lately
'ome expectations were entertained of th.
arrival of more troops from France, bu
:hat every profpeft of that nature had clofec
n delpair-tnat made, almol
■very night, on the outports contiguous tc
the Cape—that the military force was ft
enfeebled,that a general malTacre was appre
tended—that the whites were emigrating
daily, and it was thought that in the courfi
at a te\y months, not one would be founi
•emaiuing on the French part of the ifland
.nat it was confidently believed, thatfomi
celebrated characters (among whom is sup
ao'ed to be the well kr.own Count D'f
who had, a little before, arrived in;
:!andeftine manner,from France) were th<
thief a£tors among the revolted Mulat
.oes ; jhat the Colonial Alfembly was in ;
'.ate at the molt ruinous anarchy, the mem
bers having on the day before Cap. portei
failed, carried their differences on politica
apinions fofar that they actually drew theii
words on each other, and the liou.'e woulc
!iave been drenched in blood, had not tht
interposition of feme lef; turbulent spirit:
übuded the dreadful ferment."
DIED ou Sunday (he 3d inflar.t, at his fca
tailed the Hermitage, near New-York, foHf
LEAK.E, Esq. in the 8111 year of his age. Ai
aid and refpetlable citizen of that (late.
.The governor of the ifiand of Cuba ha
slued a proclamation, dated April 20, or
dering all foreign merchants then renden
II that illand. to depart from thence in for
ty days.—This order is supposed to havi
originated, with many others of a like calf
I rom the narrow and partial policy of th<
(now exiled) Count Florida Blanca—Hi
mini (fry being now at an end, it is probabh
: ' le . condition of fore : gners both in ok
spain and her colonies will be much better
ed.
1 he following is espied /torn the Norfolk paper 0,
May 26.
By a gentleman just arrived from Cadiz
we arc favored with the following intelli
-,ence ; its authenticity being unqueftiona
ble, it plainly discovers the motives b'
w Inch the populace of Marseilles was actu
ated to treat the Spsnifh consul at that por
it a manner unbecoming the dignitv of fuel
a character, by pulling down the'arms o
Spain from over his door : —
In pursuance of different treaties wit!
>pain, France made a considerable nava
trma.iu' it to a liit in extricating her froit
!ier embarrassments, in confequeiice of tin
affair at Nootka-Sound—Scarcely had the'
emerged from that situation, when she be
;an to violate the family compact: by igno
minioufly prosecuting the Ffench citi7.cn
sftablilhed at Madrid, Cadiz, and othe;
Count Florida Blanca, the mof
:lefpotic minister that ever directed the ca
jinet of Madrid, inlfituted a tribunal o:
poLce, and employed spies to pry into anc
watch the conduct of the French citizens
111 the molt minute manner—and their re
ports or fuggelHans, though ever so ill
iounded, were not scrutinized in the fmail
?ft degree, but considered as incontrovert
ble and avowed faffs ; and the French ci
tizens were dealt with according to tht
magnitude of the crimes so fabricated.
In the month of Jure, 1791, Spain hat
a considerable quantity of foklierv raifec
and equipped, which Ihe stationed a!
along the frontiers of France, and former
that famous Cordon', which the Irencf
adies in derifiou, wore around their wailts
ind ridiculed in fancy-girdies. -InSeptem
aer following, the infurreftion of the ne
groes in St. Domingo took place. Spain
f (he did not excite it, sanctioned it by c
warm lupport in a clandeltine manner—
I" lot ida Blanca proclaimed in open and so
lemn terms, that >"he king his malter, hat
ormed a determined resolution againfl
any interference in this contention Al
rhough by special contrails between the
two crowns, they had reciprocally bounc
themselves to alliff, mutually, in suppress
ing an y infurreftions or internal 'broil'
which night take place in either of their
refpeitive poffellioas in that iliand, —By an
order i(T ue cl from t:ie f.iprcme JuMTA of
the slate, and approved by the Council of
Caflille, the French merchants and mech i
mcs fettled at Cadiz, Madrid, and other
parts of Spain, found themselves reduced
to the absolute necessity of becoming Span
ish subjects ; and to renounce their coun
try in formal, pofitive terms, or immedi
ately close their business, and ill the fliort
space of a month to quit Spain. This was
directly contrary to all the treaties sub
ing between the two nations : For since
that of the Pyrennees up to the Family
Compact, they had conrtantly a righ' tn
fettle, not only in the Sea-Ports, which are
free to all nations, but in all the interior
towns and villages, with permiflion to form
their establishments wherever they pleased;
under the sole obligation to profefs the Ca
tholic religion.
All these infractions and violations on
the part of Spain, had already irritated, ill
a high degree, the people of France, whc
were neiglfbors to that kingdom or in their
sea ports.
The French citizens thus forced to quit
Spain embarked at Cadiz. It was the city
of Marseilles who saw approach the shore
of their country thofc opprefled and injur
ed citizens—whom, t>e facrifice they had
made of their fortunes and profeffions ren
dered dear to her.—lt was Marseilles, who
by a free contribution, furnifhed to these
generous citizens the means of traversing
the different parts of France, to repair tc
their different departments and towns.
In Autumn lad, three or four (hips be
longing to Marseilles, were wrecked in £
storm, on the coast ofCatalonia, in Spain ;
the Captains, a (lifted by the French Con
sul for the diftrift, saved a part, of theit
cargoes and effects— but scarcely had the}
jot them to a place of fafety, when the of
ficers of the customs received orders tc
seize them— the captains and their crew:
were thrown into prison, or rather intc
dungeons— In vain did the French Agenl
exclaim against the rights of nations and
hqfpitality violated—ln vain did he demand
jultice —no answer could be obtained.
It was soon after this lart outrage on the
part of Spain, (under the pretence of con
traband traffic on her coasts) when com
plaints were laid before the Municipalit)
of Marseilles by the parties concerned, wit!
inconteftible documents that no fraud conic
possibly have been fufpefted, and by therr
forwarded to the National Afl'enibly—tha'
the popolace of this city demonstrated theii
horror for, and just resentment against such
proceedings by pulling down the arms o
Caftilie from above the door of the Spanifl
Consul's Hotel.
It is however, a coiifoling reflection, thai
Spain, now better enlightened as to hei
true interests, has expelled the Minister
who fought every means to break entirel)
with France ; and that the Count d'Aran
da will probably repair, in the course of hi'
administration, the injuries done to the
French nation, and by which flie was juftl)
irritated.
PRECEDE NTS.
[From Mr. Paint s Rights of Man"]
SINCE the revolution of America, anc
more so since that of France, the preach
ing up the doctrine of precedents, drawr
from times and circumstances anteccdem
to those events, has been the ffudied prac
tice of the English government. The ge
nerality of those precedents are founded or
principles and opinions, the reverse oJ
what they ought to be, and the greater
diftauce of time they are drawn from, the
more they are to be fufpe&ed. But by as
sociating these precedents with a fuperrti
tious reverence for ancient things, as monks
shew relics and call them holy, the gene
rality of mankind are deceived into the de
(ign. Governments now ast as if thej
were afraid to awaken a single reflection ir
man- I hey are foftly leading him to the
sepulchre of precedents, to deaden his fa
culties and call his attention from the scene
of revolutions. They feel that he is arri
ving ac knowledge fafter th->n they with,
.i id their policy of precedents is the baro
meter of tneir fears. 1 his political popery,
like the ecc'.efiaftical popery of old,has had
its day, and is hafteiiing to its exit. The
ragged relic and the antiquated precedent,
the monk and the monarch, will moulder
together.
Government by precedent, without any
regard to the principle of the precedent,
is one of the vilelt systems that can be set
up. In numerous instances, the prece
dent ought to operate as a warning, and
not as an example, and requires to be (ban
ned instead of imitated ; butinftead of this,
precedents are taken in the lump,- and put
at once for conftiuition and for .aw.
Either the doctrine of precedents is po
licy to keep men in a state of ignorance, or
it is a practical confellion that wisdom de
generates in governments as governments
lncreafe in age, and can only hobble along
b) the flilts and crutches of precedents.
How is it that the lame persons who would
proudly be thought wiser than their prede
cessors, appear at the fame time only as the
Shorts of departed wisdom ? —How it rant■ c
lyis antiquity tre'ted! To anfwerfome
pu/pofes it is fjioken of as the times, of
iarknefs and ignorance, and to anfwef
others, it is put for the light of the world.
If the doctrine of precedents is to be fol
lowed, the expences of government need
Tot continue the fame. Whvpay men ex
ravagantly who have but little to do ? If'
;verv thing that can happen is already in
>recedent, legislation is at an end, and
>recedent, like a dictionary, determines
•very cafe. Either therefore, government
las arrived at its dotage, and requires to
>e renovated, or a'l the occasions for exer
ting its wisdom have occurred.
\\ e now See all over Europe, and par
icularly in England, the curious phen'ome
lou of a nation looking one way, and A
jovernment the other—the one forward
ind the other backward. If governments
ire to go ou by precedent, while nations
;o on by improvement, they mult at lad
:ome to a final leparation ; and the foorier,
md the more civilly they determine this
>oun, the better.
[From a London Piper.
V i orkfhire bard has recently published a
lort of Dog-latin Addrefi to sports
men, which has occasioned milch laugh
ter among those who, from their know
ledge of latin poetry, can relish this fort
of wit.—lf there be such things as En
quires, who understand Latin, and fpor
tmg Parsons who have not forgotten it—
tliey will finile at what follows :
Arm A VIR'JMqUE cano, qui primo Sol*
bo peeping,
[am nunc cum tabby nox languet to button her
rye-lids,
- um l oiniers autSpamelscampos sylvafque per
errat—
Voj mihi t Brontothe,'!, over arms small and
great donunantes,
Date spurs to dull poet qui dog.latin carmina
condit —
Artibus aique novis audax dum Sportfmcn t
follow,
Per (lubbles et turnips et tot difcrimina rerum,
•himPartndge with popping terrificare minantur,
namque valent a feather tangere plumbo)
si hang fire discharge them
Apollo. "
Te quoque, Magne Cleator*, te memoranda
precamur—
Jam nunc thy fame gallops super Garamantas et
lndos,
Nam Nabobs nil nisi de brimflone et charcoallo
quuntur,
HTorrifipbizque Tifpoo fulphurea fuflinet atma—
Induit ecce Shooter tunicam made of neat mar<
ble drugget,
2 ue bene conveniens defluxit to th' waillbant
of breeches.
Nunc paper et f.owder, et /dices, popp'd in tha
fide pocket,
Immemor hau&Jhot-bag graditur, cotnitatus two
pointers,
Mellorian letinens tormentum dextra bi-barrel'd.
En 1 Hat Jlaunch Dingo baud aluer quam Ilea
dyguide-poft,
Proxtmus atque Pero perftat fe ponere juxla—
With gun cock'd and Icvell'd, et laevo lumintf
claufo,
Nunc Avicida resolves haud double-strong par
cere powder,
\ osteneri Yrlpers\, vos-grandscvique
Nunc palsy-pate Jovi orate to dreis to the left
hand,
u,t v enen tip the wink, like a fiiot to skim down,
ab alto
Mingere per touch-hole totamque madcfceits
priming.
Nunc lugete,du,miinc pal-,
mas
[nfandum flebili Mufa renovante dolorem
Exfilit ecce Lepus from box cum thiflles oporto-
Bang ! bellow'd both barrels—heu! pionuJ
nernitur each dog—
Et/ > Msinth' interim tiips away sub tegmin«
thorn-bulb.
J Thunder makers.
* Author of an ingenious "Etifjy on (hooting.*
t Young Partridges.
PRI C E or STOCKS.
Si* per cents, per £. . 2a/
'Ihree ditto .
referred iix ditto, . ,~r,
lnd,nts lift
f mal settlements, , Sy6
1-2 shares Bank Stock 50 per c«nt premium.
Shares Bank N. A. 25 ditto.
JUST IMPORTED,
From London, Dublin, and Scotland,
A large and general cjfortmcnt of
books,
For sale by ROBERT CAMPBELL, No. r 4
South Second-Street.
June 6.
N.B. Country fiorekeepers may "be supplied
at the above place with family, common, an<l
jockct Bibles, T filaments, Spelling-books,
vv atts s Psalms, Hvmns, Plaving Cards, Quills,
Wafers, Sealing-Wax, Writing-Paper, Blank-
Books, &c. &c. on the lowest terms.
[Tw tier farliuelars in our next.]The VILLAGE MERCHANT,
[Continued from No. 6a J
SOME jugs, some pots, some fifty dls oftape,
A keg of wine, a cask of low-proof rum
Lunged cloie—for fear the fpirtt should escape
That many a sot was waiting for ar home ;
A gross of pipes, a cafe of home-made gin ;
lea, powder, {hut—fin aII parcels he laid in j
JVloUties too, for wights,
{tivicee/!, that winus dull JVbaacurn $ boldel
flights
When Echoed forth, the wild ideas roll,
Flalh'd from that farthing candle, call'd his foul:
Ail ihefe he bought, and would have purchas'c
more
To furnifti out his Lilliputian store ;
But cafli fell short—and they who fmil'd while ye
i Ije cacti remain'd—now took a feiious fit-
No more the fh'jp-girl could his talk endure
But, like her cat, (at lullen and demure—
I lie dull retailer found no more to lay,
XSuc bow d his head, and wilh'd to sneak away }
Leaving his houle-dog now, to make reply,
And wa :n fche counter with a lynx's eye—--- ■■■
Our merchant took the hintj and off he went.
Kefoiv'd to iell at—twenty .five per c*n».
Returning far o'er many a hill and stone
And much in dread his earthen-ware would break
Thoughtful he rode, and uttering many a groan
Leil at in me worm-hole vent his cafkihould leak —
His cask, that held the joys of rural squire,
Which even ('twas said) the parson did admire,
And valued more than ali the dotty pages
That Calvin writ, and fifty other sages $ —
Once highly priz'd—be-prais'd in verse and prose.
But now unthumb'd, a Jose repoje.
At dusk of eve he reached his old aboje
Around him quick his anxious townsmen came
what luck had happ'd him on the road;
And one ungeer'd the mud-bespattered team :
While on his calks each glanc'd a loving eye,
Patient, to all he gave a brief reply---
Told ail that had befall'n him on the way,
What wonders in the town detain'd his stay,—
tc Houses as high as yonder whiteoak tree,
<s And boats of monstrous size, that go to ft a :
" Streets throng'd with busy folk, like Iwarming
hive,
i( The lord knows how they all contrive to live--
** No ploughs I faWj no hoes; no care ; no charge,
tc In fa&, they all are gentlemen at large j
44 And r r oas so tiljek on every window lie,
44 I hey all seem born tofell---and none to buy."
[To be continued. J
* 11 - 1 -1- - iI J ■!' — . -
AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft Seflion, begun and held at the city 0 1
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania,
on Monday the twenty-fourth of October, ojic
thou land leven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT relative to the Con:penfations to ctrta'u
Officers employed in the celleCtion of the Duties oj
hnpoji and 'Tonnage.
T)B it enabled by the Senate and HouJ'e of Repre
■D jentatives of the United States of Anieri, a ir,
CongrtJ's affimbiei, That from and after the lad
d-.y ot Jun: next, in addition to the fees and emo
luments which may accrue to the officers employ
in th-e colledtion of the duties of import and ton
nage, by the provisions already made, they ihal
Severally have, ?nd be entitled to the refpe£tiv<
allowances following, to wit; The surveyors oi
Newbury f'Oit, Salem, Saint Mary's and Wilming
ton in North Carolina, the yearly sum of on.
hundred dollars, each ; rhe surveyors of Beverly
North Kingston, EaQ Greenwich, Warren, Bri-
Jlol, Pawcatuck-river, Providence, Patuxet, Nev
Haven, Leweilenlburg, Alexandria, Beaufort
Hartford, Winton, Bennet's-creek, Plymouth
M urtreelhorough, Nixonton
Jndian-town, Curtituck-inler, Palquotan k-rive
bridge, and Newbiggen creek, the yearly sum o
eighty dolh-s, each ; the surveyor of Rortftnouth
Che yearly sum of frxty dollars the surveyors ol
Infwich, Portland, Newport, Stonington, Middle
ton, Bermuda-Fiundred, Peterlburg, Richmonc
and Savannah, the yearly fiim of fifty dollars,
each ; the surveyors of Cloudier, New Londor
«nd Swan!borough,the yearly sum of thirty dollars
each ; the surveyors of Kudfun, Little
Suffolk, Smiihtield, Ui banna, and Fredericklburg
the yearly sum of twenty dollars, each ; the col
ledtor of the diltridt of Wilmington in NorthCa
a-olina, the yearly sum of one hundred and fife;
dollars; the colledtors of the diftridls of Port!
r/ uth, GloucelK-r, Albany, Annapolis, Vienna.
Noftingfiam, Y'oik-town, Dumfries and Louifvil
ie, the yearly lum of one hundied d. liars, each ;
jhe f.olledlor of the diltrict of Fairfield, tije year
ly sum of eighty dollars : ihe collectors of the dif
tridts of M-»iblc-head, Plymouth, Barnfttble,
Nantucket, New Bedford, Dighton, York, Bid
deford and Pepper:lborough, Balh, Wifcalfet
Machias, New-port, New Haven, Perth Ambov,
Ciieat Ejg-harbor, Wilmington in Delaware,
Chester, Cedar-point, George-town, Hampton
t■ iy, Wafhingt m, Plank-bridge and George
town in Si>uth Carolina, the yearly sum of fif
ty dollars, each ; the naval officer of the diftridl
of Porrfmouth, the yeady sum oi one hundred
collars ; the naval othcers of the diftridls of New
iiuryport, New-Port, Providence, Wilmington in
North Carolina and Savannah, the yearly sum ot
Jirty dollars, each ; the collector of the d iUriel ot
Salem an I Beverly, one fourth of one per centum
on the amount of all monies by him received on
account of the said duties; and to the colle&ors
of the diftridts ot Portsmouth, Newburyport,
Clou erter, Mjrblehead, Plymouth, Nantucket,
I. IgajtQwn, New Bedford, Dighton, York, Bidde-
IWd and ir'epiiertruo.ougn, Portland, Bath, Wif
caflet, Penobfcot, r\c.nchma* % s Hay, Machias,
Newport, Providence, New-Haven, Fairfield,
Perth Ambi>v, Burlington, Great Egg-harbour,
Wilmi ngtoii in Delaware, Oxford, Vienna, Snow
hiii, Ann apolis, Not ting S am, Cedar-point, George
town in Maryland, Hampton, Yorktown, Yeoco
mico, Dumfries, Foley-iqwding, Chfrryftone,
South Quay, Wilmington in North Carotin a,
Newbern, Walhington, Edenton, Plank.-Bridge,
Georgetown in Sour.h-Carolina, Beaufort, and
Savannah, each, one half of* one per centum on
the imount of all monies by them relpe&ively re
ceived on account of the duties aforefaid.
And be it further enafttd, That from and after
the last day of June next, the allowance of three
fourths of one per centum to the colle&ors of the
diftri&s of Pennfylvauia and the city of New-
York, on the amount us ail monie % by them ref
pe&ively received, on account of the duties of im
post and tonnage, fliall cease, and instead thereof,
they (hall, after that time, be entitled to one hall
of one per centum on all I'uch monies by them
relpe&ively received.
And be it further crafted, That from and aftei
the last day of June next, the expenle of fuel, of
fice-rent and neceflary rtationary, for the colle&orj
of the diltridls of Salem and Beverly, Boston anc
Charleftown, the cities of New-York, Philade!-
phi a and Charleston, the towns of Baltimore, No
rfolk and Portfmouti), iiull be paid, three fourth;
by the said colle&ors and the other fourth by tht
relpe&ive naval officeis in those ciOridls.
• And be it further enafled, That whenever a col
lector (hall die, the commiiTions, to which h<
would hare been entitled on the receipt of all du
ties bonded by him, fliall be equally divided be
tween the legal reprefentaiives of J'uch deceai'ci
:olledor and his lucceflor in office, whose duty i
[hall be to colled the fame j and for this purpof*
the said representatives fltall deliver over to fuel
fuccelfor all the public «r official books, paper:
and accounts of the said deceased.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of th,
House of Representatives.
Richard Henry Lee, Prefidcn,
pro tempore of the Senate.
Approved, May eighth, 1792.
G.WASHINGTON,
President oj the United States
BOOKS,
Printed and fold by
MA T H E W CAREY,
No. JlB, Market-Street, Philadelphia■
I. American Museum, from its commenccmer.i
n January 1757, to December 179 1, in ten vols
?rice, neatly bound and lettered, sixteen dollars.
This work, 'which is now conducted on an im-
Proved plan, containing the befl pieces publijbcjfor
md againli the proceedings of government, will bi
found to contain at leajl as great a variety of poll
ical, agricultural, and mijcellaneous essays, as any
•ver publijbed in America. Perhaps in no one iuor«
ire Jo many -valuable documents refp fifing the hifio•
•y of this count)y, collected together. His excel
ency the President of the United States, has* de
lared of it, that lt a more uleful literary plan
las never been undertaken in America, nor oiu
liore deserving of public encouragement." Tht
r ubJcription k two dollars and a half per annum,
jentlerr.en in tht country iuho wife to be fupplicc
with this work, art requejted to give commrjjion ti
fiends in the city to JubJcribe jor and receive, it.
2..Ladies' Pocket Library—containing : —MiJ.
Koreas Ejjays ; Gregory'j Legacy ; Lady ten
iingtcn"s advice \ Marchionejs of Lambert's ad
vice j Swift's Utter to a newly married lady ;
Mrs. Chapcne on command of temper j More s fa-
Of s for the ladies Price bj6.
". Smith's History of New-York, fom itsfri.
Settlement to the year 1732* \Lq whih ij annexe,!
2 dejeription of the country, with a fijort accoui.
:f the inhabitants, their religious and political Jlute
and the conjlitution of the courts of juJiice—P ric
a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, 1.1.d. profejjor of moral phiiojephy and log;
in the Mar jchal College, Aberdeen—Price tlrt,
fourths of a dollar. Of this bock the Critual Re
viewers (vol. 69. p. bzs) Jay : " have Jeer,
nothing on these Jubjetls more plain, more pojpuu
ous, or more genera ly ufeful."
5. Beauties of P^eti), Br'vijh and American,
containing/cleft productions of the mojt eminent Bri
tijh and American poets. Price four fifths of a dol.
6. Blair's Sermons, containing the whole of tht
three volumes of the Britijh edition, in two. Prim
two dollars.
7. Nccka/'s Treatise on the importance nf reli
gious opinions. Price four fifths of a dollar. *
8. Examination of the objervat ions of Lord Shef
field's on American Commerce. Price, on very jint
paper, five eighths of a dollar.
9. C J he Conjiitu tions of the Jeveral United States,
wtth the federal Conjlitution, &c* Price fivt
eighths r-f a dollar.
10 M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition it
1 2mo. Price three eighths of a dollar.
11. American Jest B >ok, in two parts, witt
two very neat engravings. Price Bound y thrct
fifths of a dollar.
12. Garden t-f the Soul, by Bifhcp Chalcmr.
Price, bound plain, half a dollar, in calf and Ict
tred three qu'artcs of a dollar, plain i-zdo/.
13. The Dcuay Tranjlation of the vulgatc Bi
ble, in quarto. Price, elegantly bound and lettered,
50/2 —plain, fin dollars-
Said Carey has for sale, a large cfj'ortment oj
books, European as well as American editions,
which he will difpof* of on ihe most reajonable terms,
Count ry gentlemen, who favor him with commands,
may depend upon being Jupplied in the most fatisfac
'ory manner. A liberal allowance to such as pur
:hafe quantities for public libraries , or to fell again.
For fait at this Office., Sermons by
f .he Rcv'd Dr. ll'iUiamLLin t of N. York•
Pncc 5/7 i-2.
Jvfi imported in the fin'■ '!y, Cij/ijfa Pitt
Jrom Lift/on —
A few Pip.-; and Quarter Calks of
LISBON WINE,
Far superior in quality to what 'it generally impor
ted ; and a few Kales of the very bjl COiiKS,
To be Sold by
GKO RG E MEA DE,
Who has also forfait, Choice three andfive years alt
Bill of Exchange Madeira Wine,
By the Pip-:, or Quarter Calk,
LONDON MARKET MADEIRA WIN!
live years old by the pipe, or quarter Calk
Choice old Sherry WINE bv the quartercafl
Vlrfs BEEF o a fupcrio'r quality and inch as i:
fit tor an East India Voyage put up it
this city.
Choice firll quality BEEF do.
Do Second do.
BOSTON BEEF equal to anv from tha
country.
Burlington Pork of the firft quality.
and one hundred and fourteen hhds of
FI. AX SEED, &c. &c.
May 16 2 a. w. lm
THIS DAT ARK PUBLISHED,
[In Oftavo —Price sfj.
THE
LAWS of the United States,
Palled at the
Firll Session of the Second Congress.
PUBLISHED BT AUTHORITY.
\
To which are added the Ratifications of the
Amendments to the Conllitution, by the several
aiifying States; the Armillice between theUni
cd States and Great-Britain ; and the Treaty of
Peace and Friendlhip with the Cherokees, which,
«vith those in the other oflavo volume completes
ill the exilling treaties.
Philadelphia, printed by CHI LDS £? SWAINE,
Printers of the Laws cf the United States, and
Jold by them, at their office, Ao. 209, Market-
Street ; also by the principal Bcokfellers in the
city.
* # * The Laws are sewed in blue paper, and
ire intended to be bound up with those of the
ic.vt session, so as to make one volume, com
piling all the Laws palled by the Second Con-
when a complete Index will be added for
)Olh feilions.
The L A W S of the
Three Sessions of the First Congress,
Willi a complete Index, in one volume octavo,
nav be had as above.
Philadelphia, May 17th, 1792.
PROP O S A L S
For Priming by Subjcripticn,
PUBLIC VEPORTS
FROM T H K
executive departments
of T !f F
COVERNMENT of the UNITED STATES
CONGRESS,
Commencing with the pr-sent Government, and end
ing w1 th the close of the S.jjiun of May 1792.
THIS work is intended to be printed ill one
volume oflavo, estimated to contain between five
md fix hundred pages, and will be delivered tc
[übferibers in boaids at One Dollar and a hall.
A complete colleclion of the Repotts into ;
convenient ami portable volume has been fug
gelled to the publishers by several Members 0:
Congress and other gentlemen, and they are now
determined to proceed on with the work, provi
ded a competent number of lubfcrtbeis appeal
10 patronize the undertaking.
Subfcriptioni are received by CHILDS anc
SWAINE, the Nu-209, Markrt
ilreet, Philadelphia, and by the principal Book
sellers in the United S:ates
May 24.
CHESTER TOWN & BALTIMORE
S T AGES.
THE EaOern-Sh.re Stage, by way of Chef
tf rtown to Baltimore, ilarrs regularl) fron
J dixies Thoinpfon's, Indian Fourth-ftrect.
Philadelphia, every Monday, Wednofday anc
Friday, mornings, precilely at 7 o'clock, anc
.in the fame mornings at 4 o'clock, from Mr.
Grant's in Baltimore. The cultivation of the
country, and goodness of the roads, togetl.et
with the attention that ihall be paid by the pro
prietors, will, it is hoped, be 3 fufficient induce
inent tor a preference being ijiven to this route.
'AWE'S THOMPSON,
ROBERT HODGSON,
N. B. Light Waggons for hire by Jame:
rhompfon, at the Indian Queeii.
%* A few Copies of the Report of a Com
mittee of Congress on the caufcs of the failuyt
of the IVeflerri Expedition, under Major-
General St. Clair, jor fait at the Ojjict No.
109, Market-Street,
*J* S.ibfcribers to the National Gazette, wh<
wii]\ to have their papers sent by any other con
vejance than the public mail, are delired to ro
tily tie fame to the editor (their letters on thi.<
fub}c£t to te j-od-oaid by tbemfcHcs.l
K.. 'e Tr -V : ' ' CJxri'.a
A )' nh V. Ir M
■f \!' joo dollar:., or 11.;! of that value,
V - at the option of the p. ri . v. ill be 'riv
en 'oy the Coinmulioners of the Federal
Buildings to the person who, before the
ldteenthda. of July next, (hall produce to
them the moil approved plan if adopted by
them, for a Prefide'nt's house to be erected
in this city. The lite of the bi;ildiri.\ if
the arti't wilt attend to It, will of course
infueuce the afpeft and outline of hispinn,
and it's defoliation will point out to him
the number, size, and diltribution of the
apartments. It will be a recommendation
or any plan, if the central part of it may be
detached and erected for the present, with
the appearance of a complete whole, and
be capable of admitting the additional parts,
in future, if they (hall be wanting. Draw
ings will be expected of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and fettions
through the building in inch directions as.
may be neceilary to explain the internal
ilriK't Lire ; and an eft I mate of the cubic feet
of brick work, compoling the w hole mass of
the walls. The CoMjMission t ers.
Maich 14.
IVa/hingten, in tie Territory of Columbia.
A PRE M f U M
Ol' a lot in this City to be defignatcd by
impartial judges and joo dollars ; or a
medal of that value, at the option of the
party, will be given by the Commiflioners
of the Federal Buildings, to the person,
who, before the fifteenth day of July 1792,
shall pn.duce to them the 1110 ft approved
plan, if adopted by them, for a Capi; t to
be erected in this city, and 250 dollars or
a medal for the plan deemed next in merit
to the one they ihall adopt. The building
to be of brick, and to contain the following
apartmevits, to wit. _ c .
A conference room 7 ® l ™ cient to
A room for the Re- > 31 < ommooate
prefentatives I P er( ° ns
-> each. .
A lobby or antichamber to the latter, C
A Senate room of 1200 fe t uare feet
area.
An antichamber or lobby to the last.
12 rooms of 600 lquare feet area, each, for*
committee rooms and clerks offices, to be
of half the elevation of the former. Draw- •
ings will be expe£ted of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and feftioiu
through the building in such directions as
may be neceilary to explain the internal
ftru4lure, and an estimate of the cubic feet
01 brickwork compoling the whole rnaf.s of
the walls. The Commissioners.
March 14.
T O TH T. PUBLIC.
T'HE Sibfcriber but • t in contemplation soon t»
dec line Lis prejtnl bnfinefs —and having on
har.d a conjider able quantity ofJ up erfne second and
clafiic cloths, together with a variety of other arti
cles in his nyay,p> afojei to fe I them at the following
reducdprices- V / Z.
Bejl Superfne nai.y blu* 34 j,
Ditto, ditto. Scarlet 36^-
Common eoleics fupe>jji:d 32 f.
Rlafiic Jiripes 9s.
London buff and white raffimers 1 'Jo.
Ditto, coloured do* I 51.
York/hire do. do, 1 y'(t,
Str,pcd toitenets 141.
Rattinets 3 s.
Striped Nankeens V 4*
A variety of wa jlcootfh ipes proportionally low,
Fancy buttons and tr>n.ir..r*s do.
I.ond-. n brji Jilk hfc, from iiff) tt 245.
The above goods have been mnjjly imported from
one of the frfl Mercantile houses in London, and
arc of an equal quality to any imported into Ameri
ca j they will be JchJ per piece or Jmaller quantity
as may be J} f u it thepur chafers } by th* publics mofk
humble Ji/vart, j*OHN SHE t'HERD.
A'o. 3 South Fourth-flreet.
(0* Ar.y person disposed to purchase the whole
ofcheauove ftoik, itiay also have on reasonable
terms his present dwelling house, together with
ihe Itore, a more eligible fitu-ation for bufinels in
the.tailor's line is not to be found in this city.
The advantage of this bulinefs being so well etta
blilhcd by the proprietor will be very great, and
r;om well known fa&s, needs no comrr.en t^
A lease of fix years may be had of the house.
May 14, 2aw. tf.
A FARM hOR SALE. *\
«-7"£ be fold cheap for cash, a Jituated on tb r
hanks, and on the north Jlde cf the river Rarir
ran in the Jlate ofNenv-JcJey ; eight miles from the
city of Neiv-Brutjivic, and one jrom the town of
Bound Brook, containing 191 acres, »r.d 40 acres
about a mile dijtant apportioned to it for woodland:
'jn this farm has late'y been creSied a neat an J,
convenient house 2?> by 34 feet neatly fnijhrd,
built on a cellar the diincrf. jm of the House, with
a kitchen f rniing a wing 24 by iS feet completed :
50 acres of it being meadow renders this place tru
ly valuable \ the healthy airy and pleasant ftuat ion
makes it an agreeable Jeat fr a gentleman ' the
meadow and fertility of the foil, an object frih;
farmer, <£f its being fur rounded by the mo ft wealthy
and cp I:lent farmers in the slate, a very eligible
jland Jor (ftcre. The ride to and from Er.urfwic
on either fide of the river, is delightful ; for the
price apply to the editor of the National Gazette.
6w ] aw.
PRINTED BY
CHILPS anb SWAINE,
AT T HEIR OFFICE, NO. 209, HIGH-STREET
hEAR FIFTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA*
2.3 .
D O
< 5
o' C
? cr
n