Vol. I.
In the Debate on
The New Representation Bill,
The House beit* in committee of the whole,—
On motion to fill up the blank tor the ratio oi
Reorefentatian with thirty three tboufand,—
Ik ,7R. Gii.V.s observed, that although this
iyl fuhjett has been heretofore thoroughly
if,.culled, and rfir minds of gentlemen piobablv
faii*uod wirK the cifeuflion, yet he could no
help tref -attire upon the patience of the commit
tee, hy mentK>mne feme of the principal reafowi
which would influence hjs vote against the mo
tion, and in favor of that ratio which will as
lord the greate.lt number of repreftntatives, au
choriiaJ pv the c-mrtitut'-on. He wasirtduced tj
do this from an that in th« usual court
of things arguments wilt have an efFctf upon th,
public mind in /./me mealure proportionate t<
their own felidfcy* and the purity of the motive
wKich actuate them. That the compound o
thele qualities form a common standard by whicl
all arguments would and ought to be meafuro
bv the great majority of the people ; anii he fea<
t»o objeaions to fuhmitting his reasons *o the ap
plication of this common standard ; he mean
however to confine himfclf to general remarks
and not to fatigue-the committee unnsceffarii;
with a minute exemplification of them.
He proceeded by.obfarving, tnat the expreflio:
in the conftitrTtion induced the gene
j al expettatio* amongti the peopie of the Unite.
'States, that one reprefe.n: t:ve for every thirt;
thoofand persons wa*. feeured to them by the con
ttitution—that a definite certainty in the numbe
of reprefe-»tativea, as well as the manner of pro
coring them, is its nature cf constitutional an,
not 01 legillative provision, and affords a reafoi
again# varying the ratio mentioned in the confti
tution, although thiU ratio te exprefTed in term
*»f latitude—that CongrcCs had confirmed the ge
». eral expe&ation in the public mind by the pro
posed amendment? to th? coflf-iiut'jon, and ha<
at lkraft given a foli.mn opinion in favor of the ra
tio ps ivze to thirty thousand,- untiJ the numbe
of rcprefentative* ihould amount to *mfi Hundred
after acquiring which number by that rule only
a qusjit.ed difcrction is adgiitte?—that the opi
nions of the great bulk of people of America veer
in favor of an increased reprrfentation, at leal* a
fmr ai. the utmost limit* pfcfcrvbed by the coafli
tvtioo—that this circumstance was evidenced
the convention# which adopted the constitution ;
that it was further evidenced by the several le
gidtturef which adopted the proposed amendmen
before alluded to —that it was frill further evi
dcnced by the number of representatives in th<
rclpc&ive state legislatures } that this last circum
tf.?ncc is rendered peculiarly forcible by a com
p;** alive view of the obje&s of legislation char
feted to the government of the United States, an<
ttiofe retained to the (late governments: the ob
jc f legislation chartered to the governmen
oft'.!* United States, are wholly national am
ir; •,©riant : the objects of legislation retained t<
th ft .»:c-governments are comparatively local an<
Uibz cn y thole peculiarly prompt temptatioi
ar,J ■- j*v il e corruption \ thele offer no inducement
tr ei 1 tr. in the government of the United States
of the conftiiuents of the reprefenta
vc are c«>mplex and diverfified $ in t|v
r vernments, they are comparatively limpli
am 4 , a Unrelated. That a fymparhy with the fee;
•ings of the people (bo old chara&wife this brand
the government 3 wiJciuin is the expelled cfaa
ra&erilt;c of the lenatc f and d;(patch of the ex
ecutive.
To the inequality of representation relatively
to stares suggested to result from the applicatior
of this ru\e, Mr. Gile-s replied that the inequali
ty complained of is rather ideal than real $ tha
to determine how far this confederation reallj
ought to amongst states, from the reafoi
and nature of the cafe, it is right and proper t<
aiccrtaiji the whole comparative governmental in
fiuence of the »efpe6live slates proportioned tt
numbers 5 to do this it is necefTary to the
whole organization of the government, and the
jfiue of this enquiry will be, that those states, ir
whose favor the rul-e is said to operate, polfefi
the least governmental influelice in the Senate,
proportioned to numbers j and that the cafuai
gain hrte is no equivalent for the certain lofj
as as the governmental in
tiuence of,ftate.s in relation to numhers, is to ope
rate, it will furnifh a motive of preferment foi
the fule he contended for.
It hasL been laid, continued Mr. Giles, tha;
the representation of the ftaieS in the Senate, is
ftri&ly defined by the cenftitution, and that there
fore the confideratiep of the relative influence ol
the states there, (hould not be resorted to as an
argument in the apportionment of representatives
to this l>oufe, but it Ihould be observed that the
rule contended for, though not so ftri&ly defined,
is equally within the pale of the conllitution, and
the most extended use to be made of this coniider
ation, is to manifeft the impropriety of resorting
to the pretended inequality amongst states, as a
conclusive argument, to vary thar ratio of repre
sentation for tfeis house, which is admitted to be
tfce SBoft proper upon its iptrinfic merits, and
when viewed without a reference to that consi
deration. This particular fubjeft suggests a pecu-
Jiar equity and propriety, in taking into confe
deration the comparative governmental influence
bi thcilates in the Senate proportioned U nupi*
By P. FRENEAU: Pubtifhed Mondays and Thursdays-, al Three Dollars per annum
MONDAY, April 30, 1792-
bers, because .it is in confluence of a reprefenr
ition by states there that they gain this unequa
nfiucnce, and nothing more is contended tor kw
his rule than a reprrfentation of the people thro
:he meaium of the several states here. The rul
>f representation is not the caufo of the pretend
:d inequality, as far as it may appear to exist, i
& a mere contingent circuitiftance, depending up
>n arbitrary ladts and numbers, which cannot b
•endfered subservient to any general rule : i
foould also be remarked, that moll of the ftatt
uppofed to lw» favored by the operation of this rule
lave \ «retofore been unequally reprfcfenicd in the Xe
icme, and from the extent and rapid population o
hefe states, comparatively, to other*. it may be con
rludcd with certainty, that prt-vioufly to the expira
tion of the present apportionment, the real i nequa
lity of, representation in this houle, as well as th
fenatc,-will continue to bear particularly hard upoi
them. Perfect equality is unattainable, and th<
proposed ratio is in the principle equally fubje£
with any other to all the inconveniencies whict
it is intended to remedy.
The inconveniencies of the rule he contender
for, jn their utmost extent can never be ven
great, because the lame rule is applied in the fami
manner to the refpe£tive states, and the most ex>
tended scope for it* unequal operation, must b(
confined to the casual result of the fractions
numbers within the several dates. In jefle&iftj
upon this argument of inequality of representa
tion in relation to frates, an idpa had preJentec
itfelf io his mind which seemed to him both no
vel and important, and that ij>» that a quality
exifis in the government, from its peculiar orga
niration, wl.ich enables a minority of constitu
ents, through the medium of a majority of repre
sentatives, to give law to a majority of" constitu
ents, absolutely against the will of their minorit)
of representatives. This quality of the govern
rnent arises from the state representations in th<
fen ate, and it exists not merely in ("peculation 01
idea, it has heen sensibly felt in practice, ant
there is a real tendency in the government, frorr
its peculiar ttxture, to make it ft ill more so.—
The very kill now under confjderation will pro
bably fuvnilh one strong evidence of KS efticacy ir,
practice ; it wou>d have palled very ditferentl)
from the present proposition if it had not mei
with this unnatural check j and 1 am concerned,
said he, to remark, that in almoll every impor
tant meafore of the government, the minorifv
of the people of the union had given laix
to the majority of the people, against their
qonfent, as far as this can be evidenced through
the medium of their representative». This, jt is
to be feared, is a radical evil in the government,
jnd its magnitude would be in a great measure
proportioned to the extention of the objects of le
gislation by this government. it (he people be
the only legal foutce of governmental authority,
and the rights of individuals be equal, this is
certainly a In terodoy principle, in the government
He would irot pretend to fay, however, that this
was a cancer upon the body politic, too inve
terate and vital to admit of a cure ; but he con
ceived it to be a fore of that fort, which it would
be unwise to irritate or tamper with ; and he con
ceived also, the present proposition not to be
with out-its irritating qualities.
Mr. Giles then proceeded to cop.fider i:pr>n .gen
eral principles, the expediency of i recreating the re
presentation in this House to the full extent au
thorifv:d by the cdnftitution/'aod particularly with
a view to the neceility of establishing, in this
branch of the government, a permanent iympachy
with the landed interest. He observes that all re
presentative governments appeared to poflefs a na
tural tendency from republicanism to monarchy,
or ariftocracv, that great inequalities in the dilti i
bution of wealth amongst individuals, confequen!
upon the progress of all governments, appeared tc
have been the truecaufe of these political evolu
tions, that no competent remedy ag-ainft this evi
had been heretofore discovered, or at leait pra&i
cally applied by any government, that perhaOs this
great political light may firft ihine forth thro' the
medium of the American conftitutibns, and f?rve,
as fyme others have previoully done, to illuminate
not only the American, but the European world,
The peculiar circumstances of the United States,
however, since the late revolivtion, and in the in
fancv of the American governments, favored ex
tremely this natural principle of the growing ine
quality in the distribution of wcaUh amongst indi
viduals ; an extensive, unexhausted, fertile coun
try furnifliea full scope for agnculture : the plen
ty and cneapnefs of provisions rnd rude materials
for manufa&urcs, and an un(hack!ed commerce
for the merchant } and to these were added the
blefling? of peace, and laws securing to the indivi
dual the exclusive pofiefiion of the fruits of his
own industry, however abundant. These were in
trinsic circumstances 5 there was a contingent one.
A public debt, the price of the revolution itfelf
and its consequent blefiings, had been incurred,
and from the imbec-ility of the then existing con
federacy and other causes, was depreciated consi
derably below its nominal value j but it was then
in tmall mafTes, and not very unequally spread
amongst the individuals throughout the whoil
United States. The government of the Uni
ted States, instead of managing this contingent
cJrcumftance with caution and delicacy in its ad
ministration, seized upon it with avidity, and in
all its fifcal arrangements, applied it as the most
powerful machine to stimulate this growing ine
quality in the diftributio#'of wealth, a principle
perhaps too much fevered by other exiting causes.
The government, net Satisfied with the cebtscon-
thi former c©afed<era.cy, a flu me d the
By merits of a great propeition of the debts con-
by the refpe&i-vc ft ate and
jftabliflicd funds for . pay rug the iptcveft of tlu
whole. This produced two efiedls not
wery dHirable 31nongft individuals j Jt gathered
theft- icatt-ered debts, at a very inferior price, from
the hands of the many find placed them in the
Hands of the few ; and it Simulated the vfllue oj
them, thus colle&ed into greater maffos, bpyond
r,ll calculation, by the artificial spplicatiod of fif
tal mctbSnifm. It produced a variety of ferioui
cffe£ttf with r'efpeft to the government. In oppo
sition to the agricultural or It enliftec
a great mopied interest in the United th<
pofTefTor.s of which having embai ked their fortune:
withthegovernment, would goall lengths with its
$Iminiliralion, whether right or wrong, v- irtveu.
**ic!<£(s, By rendering the debt but partia'ly re
deemable, raffing perpetual fax laws, 2nd mortga
ging their produces to the payiaeht of the inteiel'
Of this perpetually exiting oebt, <jt gave the exe
cutive a qualified coryrrofcl over the betf-monie<
rcfources of the-Uniled « not conten*plate c
by the cooftitntidn nor bounded in wjldoxiv. l 1
gave rife to an unauthorised incorporation of tin
monied interest, and placed it a.3 far as pof?ibl<
from the reach of future legislative influence : il
rftabli/hed the do&rtne that one .systematic finan
cier was better able to originate money bills anc
tax the people of the United i States, than th*
whole Collected wifdtrm of their rcprelentatiMl
with the aid-os a reciprocity of feeling: it gavf
rile to the idea of a finking fond Without limita
tion, as to amount or duration, to be placed in the
hands of a tew trustees, and there to be protc£lec
from legislative controul, by aH the fanftions anc
lii-curities annexed to private property. In short,
if ejtabl'fiied the dodlrine, that all authority cotflc
be more fafely entrusted to, and better executes
by a few tj>a»n by many j and i/i pursuance of thii
idea, made continual draughts of authority from
tfee reprcfcntatiwe branch of the government, anc
pfaced it in the hands of the executive j leffenine
by this mechanism of aominiftration, the consti
tutional influence of the people in the government,
and fundamentally changing its native genius anc
. rigifial principle; He knew of'no competent re
medy a»ainlt the evils to be apprehended frokh th«
1 tsrtu 1 e operations of these unhallowed principles,
but a permanent establishment of the landed 01
republican interclt in this Howfej and the bed
chance of effecting this great object, he conceived
to be a full representation of the people* Hi:
alarms, refpe&ing these fcjhionable, tnerga'u prin
ciples, were greatly incieafed by a profpe£liv<
view of lome of the proposed measures of govern
ment—he favv fyllems introduced to carve out o:
the common rights of one part of the community
privileges, monopolies, exclusive rights, See, so
the benefit of another j with no other view, ir
his opinion, but to create nurseries of immediate
dependants upon the government, whose intereC
will always Simulate them to support its meaiures
however iniquitous and tyrannical, and indeec
the verv emoluments which v\ill compose tin
price of their attachment to the government wil
grow out of a tyrannical violation of the rights o
others. He would forbear to mention a V2riet)
of other circumstances, to prove that principle:
hiving a tendency to change the very nature o
the government, have pervaded even the minuted
ramifications of itsfifcal arrangements, nor wouk
hp dwell upon the undue influence to be appre
hended from monied foreigners, who had become
adventurers in the funds, nor the various avenue
opened to facilitate the operations of corruption.
would merely remark that a&ing under im
>refiions produced by ftbefe confidei*ations, anc
irengtbened by others not less pertinent and im
portant, fuggeftsd by a number of gentlemen, iz
he course df the difcuflion of this fubjedt, anc
Relieving that a fuil representation of the people
«iil furnifh the only chance of remedy for the ex
iling, and a competent prote&ion against future
:vils ; he Ihould feel himfelf criminal if by his
vote he iLould give up a single representative au
ihorifed by the coniricution. The fame imprel
ffoiis would have induced iiim to have voted foi
the piopcfition which gave 12.0 members, had it
lot been for a conscientious and paramount regarc
fiqtr the preservation of the constitution. The
Jiffercnce of the position of the members through
jut the United States, which would have been as
fumed, by the difference in the manner of making
the apportionment, never amounted to the mini
mum of a ccnfideration with him against the
proportion, for he felt a conviction thai the agri
rultural or efuai&lng interest was nearly the
fame throughout all parti of the United States,
and he hoped that the increased reprefentatior
will furnifh strong testimonies of the truth of the
position. He would remark generally, that the
government of the United States was nowin,a state
If puberty. That it is at this time, she is to afiumt
1 fixed character, and he thought it in some de
cree rested upon the vote now to be given, whe
ther (he would preserve rhe simplicity, chastity and
purity of her r.at'i've rtpub/icanifniy in which alone
the true dignity and greatnels of her chara&e|
must consist 3 or whether flie will, so early ir
youth, prostitute herCelf to the venal and borrowe*
artifices and corruptions of a fialt and pamperec
monarchy. Whatever his own opinions or fufpi
c'iqbs may be, the tendency of the pre
frnt administration, and.whatever may the
Numb. 53.
cifion of t'o-day, he (houlil (till prrfeive a hops
that the increased repj-efer.tation, lupp.rted by ibe
•nlig'niened fplrit of ihe pf«ple at large, will form
an i-ffiflual resistance to the preflore of the whole
vices of the admimftrsr'ron, and may yet tftablilh
ihe go\ern'nfcnt upon a broad, permanent, and re
publican bali«.
CON G R E S S.
HOUSE-OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Tuf.s&ay, April 2
The arrier.Jnfents, .proposed by the Seriate, rp
the bill for indemnifying the estate of the late
Genera) Greene, were taken into confiderdtion,
and agreed to.
A bill (fiom the Senate) to com pen fate the fer
vicesxtf the late C'ol. George Giblon, was twice
read, aad ordered /or commitment to-morrow.
Mr. 'DaytOn, from a fejelt committee* reported
a bill authoring the grant and conveyance of
certain lapds tq J. C. Svmmes and his aflociates,
jvhich was twice read, and referred to a comfait
tee of the whole to-morrow.
Mr. Gerry, from the committee on his motion
Bpe&ing the appointment of thort-hand-WMters.
made the following report, which was lead, and
ordered to lie on the table :
tf Whereas an impartial publication df the de*
bates of the House of Reprefenraffves of the Uni
ted Sates will be of great pvb'h* utility j"—
4< Rtfolved, that three peifons, /killed in the
art or Stenography, be, within a week after the
commencement of the next fefiion of Congress,
appointed by ballot, to take and publi/h impartial
ly and accurately the legislative fubje&s, which
may be submitted to the confideratipn of this
House, and the debated thereon, of the members
refpeftively that provilron be then made for
the persons so to be appointed j and
that they be ftverally qualified by oath, to a faith
ful discharge of the trufl:.*'
A mefTage was delivered by Mr. Secretary
Otis, notifying that the Senate desired a confer
ence oh the fubjeft of the amendments to the mi
litia bill, disagreed to by the House, and by tbtm
incited on j and that they had, on their part, ap
pointed coiiferrees.
The House, BiXl'fuant to the order ofrhe day,
resolved itfelf into a committee of the» whole, ott
ihe bill making provision for calling forth the mi
litia, when neceflary ; and after much debate
the committee rose, and reported it with sundry
amendments.
A refutation, hid o». the table last Saturday,
by Mr. Vinirg, being called up, and the blank
therein filled, was agreed to, as follows :
" Resolved, that the Prcfident of the Senate
and the Speaker of the House of Representatives
do adjourn their refpe£ive Houses on the fifth day
of May, to meet again on the firft Monday of
November next."
The House, however, having agreed to re-con
sider their vgte, the following resolution was a
dopted i
" Resolved, that the President of the Senate
and the Speaker of the House of Representatives
do adjourn their refpe&ive Houses on the fifth
day of May next, to close the present feflions, and
to meet again on such day, as may, by law, be
dire&ed."
Mr. W. Smith then moved for the appoint
ment of a committee, to bring in a bill for al
tering the time of the next annual meeting of
Congress to the fir It Monday of November.
A committee being accordingly appointed, soon
after reported such a bill, which was read a-firft
time, read a second time, ordered to be engrofled>
brought in engrofled, read a third tim*, parted,
and lent to the Senate for their concurrence.
Mr. Fitzfimons reported a bill making certain
appropriations, which was twice read and ordered
for commitment to-morrow j also ,a bill autbori
fing. the reraiflion of certain duties Ladd
and W. & J. Simms) which was twice read, arid
ordered for commitment on Thursday next-
Wednxsday, April 26.
Mr. Gerry, for the purpose of expediting the
public business, mov?d, that, Quring]frhe remainder
of felfion, the House should every day meet at .10
o'clock, and not adjourn till 4.—The proposed
hour of meeting was agreed to ; and the hour of
adjournment left to be determiryjd by the «oujfe
of business each day.
Mr. Laurance, from the committee on the pe
tition of C. Caldwell, and J. Robertfon in be
half of themselves, and of certain American sea
men now in captivity at Algiers, made a favora
ble report, which was read and ordered to lie on
the table.
The House topje up the amendments, propo
sed by the committee of the whole, to the bill for
calling forth the mjlitia, when necefTary, to exe
cute the laws of the union, to suppress insurrec
tions, and repel inyafions j—and having after
much gone through the fcme, added the
foliowing clause of limitation, moved by Mr*
Boudinot, viz.
• And b«e it further enacted, that this ast shall
continue and be in force for and during the term
of two years, and from thence to the end of tbe
next fefiion of Congress, and no longer. '*
The b*II waj then to be engrafted for 2
thicd reti'ng-Mr. S. Bourne, from the committee for
Enrolled bills, presented to Mr. Speaker,
and Mr. Speaker signed an enrolled bill,
to indemnify the eft ace of the late Mnjoi J
General N. Grtene, for a certain bond en
tered into by him during the late war.
The House having taken into confedera
tion the menage from the Senate, expref
iive of their infilling on their amendment;
{proposed by them, and disagreed to by the
House) to the "bill for establishing an uni
form militia throughout the United States,"
a committee of three was appointed, to
confer with the committee appointed on
the part of the Senate.
A meflage from the Senate, was deliver
ed by Mr. Secretary Otis, notifying, that
thty had concurred in the resolution pair
ed by the house, for the adjournment of
Congress on the sth of May.
r'he House then proceeded to the Con
sideration of the amendments, proposed by
committee of the whole, to the "bill
for regulating procefTes in the courts of
the United States, arid providing compen
sations for the officers of the said courts
And for jurors and vvitneffes 5" and having
itiadc some progress,—Adjourned.
Thursday, April 26.
An engrossed " bill for calling forth the
tnilitia, when neceflary, to execute the
laws of the Union, to suppress infurrefti
ons, and repel invasions," was read a third
time and paifed.
The report of the feleft committee on
the petition of two American seamen re
turned from captivity at Algiers, was re
ferred to the committee cf the whole on
the biil for making further appropriations.
The House took up for consideration the
amendments reported by the committee of
tiie whole to the bill for regulating proces
ses in the Courts of the United States, &c.
and having gone through the fame, and
further amended the bill, ordered it to be
engrossed for a third reading to-morrow.
The resolutions reported by the commit
tee of the whole, on the excise law, were
agreed to and referred to a feleft commit
tee, to serve as the ground-work of a bill.
A bill, authorlfing the grant and convey
ance or certain lands to J. C. Symmes
and hrs Affbciates, was taken up in com
mittee of the whole, and reported with an
amendment, which was agreed to by the
House ; and the bill, being further amend
ed, was ordered to be engrossed for a third
reading.
Mr. Gerry moved, and Mr. Madifonfe
<ionded the motion, for taking up the bill
for reducing the rates of poltage on newf
papcrs.—The question, for taking it into
consideration, having pa.Ted in the nega
tive,
The House took up the report of a com
mittee on the petition of Comfort Sands
and others, and having agreed to the fame,
appointed a feleft committee, to bring in a
bill, to confirm the award of the Referees
between the United States and the parties
aforefaid.
The House resolved itfelf into a com
mittee of the whole, on the Bill concern
ing the registering, and clearing of ships or
vefTels.
After some tirfte spent therein, the com
mittee rose ard reported progress.
Mr. Murray then moved for taking up
the bill for reducing the rates of portage 011
Newspapers.
The motion being agreed to,
The House resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole on the said bill; and the
committee having reported it with an a
mendment, the House adopted the amend
ment, and ordered the bill to be engrossed
for a third reading.
"[The biH reduces the rate of portage to
half a cent for any distance, not more than
one hundred miles; and three quarters of
a cent for any greater distance.]
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
On the Secretary's Report en the Excise.
(Continued from our last. )
IN the 7th page of the report, the Secre
tary continues his vindication of the ex
cise law, from the charge of injuring induf
trv, and interfering with the bufinefsof dis
tilling : but jn order to give a fair investi
gation to the fubjeft, I beg leave to make a
final! digression from the general argument,
and to review the circumstances in which
this manufacture is involved, together with
the characters or those citizens, who are
principally interested in it. The stills em
ployed in extracting ardent spirits from
grain and fruit, are, with few exceptions,
O- the fmaLer kind, in capacity generally
from 50 to ico gals, and being considered
a; the family vefiels of the plantation are
turned to many domestic uses, belides that
of preparing spirits. For this purpose', how
ever, they are frequently employed for
some weeks before the frols set in hard,
during t ' lef s Pr ig ! which seasons are
Ciio 1211 not only because they are proper for
carrying on the business, but because the
other labours of the farm are no: then so
urgent. In those parts of the country in
deed, where the ftilh are mod necefTarv
the lituatio.ii rtie water would not gen
erally permit their going on during the
froft in winter, or the dror.ght in summer :
nor at thcfe periods could the (tills supply
:hem• But even if tliefe causes cchild be
•emoved (which is impossible) there is nei
ther grain nor fruit to keep them all em
ployed through the season ; perhaps not the
enth (till that is in the country would be
onftantly supplied ; nor would there be a
lemai'd for the tenth gallon that, in
that cafe, might be diftilied. With respect
:o the material; for distillation, they might
ie procured in fufficient quantities, not on
y ior the whole eonfhmption of ardent fpi
"its in the United States, but to supply an
ibundant exportation to other countries ;
uid were it brought to perfection, I repeat,
hat from long and attentive observation
itid experience, I know it to be the most
.vholefome, apple liquor perhaps excepted,
)f all ardent spirits.
That the foil is capable of producing ma
terials to ahnoft any given extent, Will not
>e qneftioned, and that (tills are owned and
employed almost exclusively by the farmers
except indeed such as have been erected
n the country since the excise law was ori
ginated] cannot be denied ; but the ex
:ent and nature of the nfes, and value of
:he diflilleries, demand some enquiry.
During the course of the late war, the
bufmefs ofdiftilling spirits from home pro
duce became very profitable, not only on
the account of the want of a foreign de
mand for our produce, butalfo, becaafe fo
reign spirits and molaff ceased to be im
ported as usual ; and the army increased
the demand for spirituous liquors ; it was at
this crisis that the legislature of Pennfylva
:iia attempted to levy an excise, not so much
n order to raise a revenue as to prevent a
:0o great a consumption of wheat by diftil
ation, least bread for the army (hoiild th.re
-3y be rendered Scarce. —But as soon as corn-
Tierce relumed its wonted channels at the
"eturnoor. r peace, and foreign spirits and mo
affe's for distillation, were imported as ufu
il, the demand for whisky, in the old fet
tlemenc >, ceased ; and the (tills, which had
.here been numerous, retreated to the re
siles of the mountains, and the (hades of
:he western woods, where the use of them
s the result of uecelfity, there being neither
tyder nor beer, for an cxhilerating and re
torative draught, nor any other poflible
node of reducing the produce of their
arms into a portable form, capable of be
ng transported to a market so distant as the
>nly one to which they 11111 (t have reccwrfe.
.The whisky is uled in the families, and
;iven to the labourers of thoft peifons who
either keep the (till, or procure their pro-
Juce to be diftilied ; but is by no means in
general use in those parts of the country,
rom which wheat and flour are brought to
.he market. I hose farmers, who have not
tills of their own, generally bring country
um home in their waggons, for family and
larvelt purposes: they find, that there is
nore profit in felling the r grain, and that
i much less quantity of rum. being (trouper
md rougher in proportion to its proof, is
"ufficient for their demand.
In the parts more distant, rum cannot be
>btained, but at a very high price, and it is
generally too of a bad quality ; yet, even
Jetween 3 and 400 miles from Philadel
phia, I have frequently calied at taverns
or a refre(hment, when I could get no
hing but rum ; —(I have, indeed, gone into
Jther taverns in some towns, in order to
nix the water that I had to drink with
•vhilky : finding it much eaiier ,>n the fto
nach than such imported spirits as were in
ife) and, I am well informed, that this has
requently been the cafe, with many travel
ers, on their journey from Philadelphia to
Pittlburgh. Whilst I am thus dealing in
legatives, I will (peak of the practices at
ome places, in which I can appeal to the
Secretary himfelf, for the truth of what I
ilfert. WhiJky is not to be found in the
avern.sat New-York, Philadelphia, or Bal
imore ; nor is it to be found in those cities,
>r in (imilar eftablifliments, in the houfesof
he wealthy, nor in the dwellings even of
he poorcit or the poor. 1 have even ob
erved, that when the criminals were put
o public labour in Philadelphia, they wefe
lot infnlted with whisky, or rather, it could
lot be got for their supply ; but they had
um carried along with them to their work,
.t is not exported to foreign countries, nor
rom one (tane to another by sea ; —in (liort,
vherever money is plenty, and prompt pay
n?nt in faihion, there are 110 waggons or
)ack-horfe»loaded with whisky, to be seen
'iliting the markets. I a(k where is the
;rocery, where is the tavern, where is the
Iram-ltiop in Philadelphia, in which it is to
>e found In all thtfe places, however,
•um of different qualities is to be purcha
ed in abundance. But let us reafou now
n the affirmative.
I will proceed to give the most accurate
ind candid information of the price of
vhifky in the different parts of Pennfylva
lia, though this information will be other
ivife applied afterwards, when I come to
;reat of the jultice and policy of the excise
aw.
t will firft preinife, that I do not design
to take notice of the fluctuation in the price
as whisky, ariung from the alarming appre
tien(ions occasioned by the firft appearance
t)f the excise law, and its unequal and de
fehve operation. The expefiiHion of a
rife in the price to be promoted by
:he general resolution of the farmers to Jay
ifide their dills, which,! believe the greater
lumber ofthetn did for some time, and an
ixpeStatiorl that o much greater demand
vould be created by the army, than actual
y did happen, occlioned a temporary fife
n the price of whisky, with more probable
eafon than can be afiigncd for the rife of
:ertificates last winter, however, the whif
cy, like the certificates, soon fell again.
But to return. The average cadi price
>f whisky, when cash could be had, was
lorn two (hillings to two (hillings and fix
>ence, and instances have happened of its
>eing fold at three (hillings, when it was
nade very good and kept up until scarce,
but this depended upon chances, for I ne
'er saw any iold at that price except a ve
y few gallons at a time, when it was scarce)
>ut I remember, a few years ago, when I
vas in the Western country and stood in
teed of some whilky, a man brought me a
oad at two (hillings, and I believe I could
lare procured much more at the fame price.
iven last October, when the excise law and
he demand for the army had their effert,
happened to refrefh myfelf at a tavern in
he mountains beyond Bedford, when fe
■eral western farmers \iert packing their
vhilky down the road, the tavernkeeper
:urchafed a (ingle keg at three Shillings a
gallon, and paid but part of the money j
lowever. the man was glad of theopportu
lity, tho' he had the trouble of balancing
.he other keg, I believe, with a stone, con"
equently neither shortened his journev nor
■afed his horse : he came from the neigh
:or.iood of Pittlhurg.
In the old countries, contiguous to the
iufqufhannah, the storekeepers have gene
ally purchased whisky from one (hilling and
en pence to two and four pence per gallon,
lelivered by the owner at the store, and not
>aid till the money could be made of it.
rod even then part payable in goods. I
cnew of an i:iftance of eight barrels tranf
>orted to a considerable distance and foicl
it one (hilling anti eight pence a gallon.
i.ven the last year it was taken from the
emoteft parts of Chester county to Con
orel, S:c. and only two (hillings and lix
>ence a gallon a(!:ed for it. For the truth
>f these stats ments I appeal to the store
keepers and diitiiiers in the parts to which
have alluded. I have been particular in
ny enquiries ever since the hateful idea of
in internal excise was suggested to the pub
ic ; I am no distiller myfelf, nor have I
:ver been, but for three winters past I have
inquired at the moil refpeclable distillers
rom the we:tern country, who were mem-
of aifembly, and others, and they have
lad but one \ oice in declaring that they die
lot receive as much money annually foi
heir whilky. as would have paid nine cent:
i gallon 011 the quantity thev distilled, tho'
t in many refpefts answered thepurpofe o!
noaey to them. I have stated the price:
)f whisky from the Ohio until I came a:
ieai Philadelphia as whi(ky is in demand.
inc 1 the result is, that two (hillings and
jence is the higiieft average ready monej
5i ice that can be admitted into calculatior
n fettled times, even if the excise law wa:
11 operation ; for it is to be observed, thai
:ile state ekcife lawexifted in the times tc
which I allude. But it may be said, thai
die Rate excise on home produce was noi
:oile£ted : granted ; but though it was no'
collected, it was an excuse to keep up the
:>rice : and are we lure that the present ex
sife Will be faithfully collected among :
people, who think it radically unjuit, anc
have habitual prepoflefiions against it.
It is but juit to observe that the people oj
Pennsylvania are well disposed to pay pub
lic taxes that are levied upon the princi
ples of equality, this is evident by the ve
ry heavy taxes they have always' paid, ef
pecially (ince the revolution ; their com
pliance with the requilitions and over-pro
portions of public creditors they made pro
vilion for, is a proof of this ; and that th<
western counties were not the most back
ward in paying their quotas, notwithftand
ng their recent diftre'ies, is evidenced h
■he records of the late treasury. That the : -
liave been foremoit in paying the heavy ok
arrearages to the land office, the records o.
that office are a Handing memorial.
Whiikev not being a cash article, nor :
merchantable commodity in the ufua
li . tints of commerce, and its confumptioi
being very much limited to particular situ
ations, its average ready money price can
not be eafijy ascertained : as it is rarelj
stored any where in great quantities, <
sudden demand in a particular place ma:
occasion a local and temporary rife in the
price. However, I must make free tc
question the Secretary's information res
pecting it, he teiU us in the report, page 15
that whisky is raised in the market, by the
excise law, from 38 to 50 cents a gallon
I wilh I knew his vouchers for this ftate
inent: he is not accustomed to admit the
Imalleft demand against the treasury, with
out luflicient documents. I hope he wil
not expert a law to be enacted, which maj
endanger ■ the peace, and has alread)
wounded the happiness of many deserving
citizens, without unquestionable authoritj
for the farts by which the justice thereof ii
to be supported, I wilh to know where
under vrh it circumfbscer. enrt i* whnf
quantities foch prices have been paid. From
rhe caufts I have jnsntioned, it* mav have
varied in the price, as much within ay ir
part", as public stock has done, bur these in
stances are no proper data on which to fix
111 average price.
When we refieft that, until within this
:en or twelve years, whilky was ufuailv
rarried from the old settlements, and fold
nt five Ihillings a gallon in the country
weft of the mountains ; and since tliat time
t has been manufactured and fold there in
abundance at two shillings, we would
;xpe<t:that a wife financier, or prudent- le.-
;iflaturc would contemplate the' probability
>t its being much cheaper as population
ind industry increased. When that coun
ty has advanced so much in twenty years
last, under the almost constant prefTures of
■var, what may we not rationally expect
t to da in twenty years of peace ?
In the old settlements, which are witfr
n the reach of ihe market for their oro
luce, a prohibition of whisky would not be
' er >' severely felt : their grain and cyder
:hey can dispose of : and the apples, which
all too scon, or which are not fit for cyder
hey can always give (as was the cafe with
nany during the last season) to fatten their
logs.
But let us pursue the enquiry into and
>ver the mountains—The peculiar cir
:um(£ances of the settlements in those dif
.rifts have not fallen under the perfbnal
)bfervation of the Secretary, nor of the
nembers of the Senate ; and are pra£ii
:ahy known to a very fmail proportion of
he liouie of Representatives, under the
•xiffing distribution of the members. I
wili describe the diuant settlements of
Peniifylvania, however, as I am better ac
quainted in that quarter than in the other
tates j but my information enables me to
lifcern that the situation of thole settlements
las a great similarity to the situation of the
.veftern parts of many of the other (tate,
ind of aii the settlements on the Ohio.
In the western pares of Pennsylvania,
fchere the people are dole fettled, I had a
ew years ago the curiosity to number the
tills in particular neighbourhoods; and
ound, that, in some places, nearly half the
armers had either one (till or a pair of
tills (t»he latter being the moil convenient
lumber) but in other places the poffeifion
)f frills was not near so common, efpecial
y among those citizens, who were far ad
vanced on the frontier, and had been fore
uced by the war, as to be unable to pro
-ure them. When the low price of land is
.oundered, a pair of (mall (tills, with the
oic. make a con/Iderable portion
>f a farmer's property ; and when the (tills
tre plenty, you will always observe, that
he plantations are better improved, and
lie appearance of indultry in general more
;oiifpicuous. But let mepaufefor amo
nent.
1 think I hear some folks asking, with fur
3rizc, are not these people great drunkards ?—
Sewfpaper scraps, indeed, have sometimes,
yith more vulgar rudenels, than mature informa
ion, ventured upon so gross an imputation ; —
md the sober, the ruminat ng Secretary, has
limielfmade a modest insinuation of the kind.
3ut I presume that the inference is drawn merely
rom the number of stills ; which is a ground of
:ftimation highly erroneous. Clearing new
ands, rolling*, raifmgs, &c. necefTarily require a
greater supply of spirits, than the labor of old
ettlcments. The heevy damps, and the great
er frequency of rams, in a country but newly
opened to the fun, encreafe the Occasion for fpi
lts. 1 appeal to the experience of the most
ibftemious men who have penetrated the woods
o survey lands, for the juflification of my re
nark. Those who keep stills are not often
irunkards; if they were, keeping them would
De a dangerous snare. lam confident that the
people in those countries are full as abstemious
is the inhabitants of this city ; although they
drink their liquor (which is but of one kind) for
refrefhment in the day time, at iheir labor, or
when they meet with their friend ; while we
jfink it here, more prudently peihaps, in the
evening ; and indulge in a greater variety.
It is not to be denied, hewever, that there
are worthless, drunken fellow# in the distant
:ounties ; but are there not such here ? Yes:—
ind I believe th N proportion to be considerably
greater.
1 will now proceed to a more particular detaiL
3f the uses of this reprobated liquor. The far
mer who keeps stills s prepares spirits for his own
jfe, and pay* his tradesmen and laborers as far
is he can with it, and he likewise diftills grain
For the neighboring farmers, who keep no stills
rf their own ; and for which he receives grain
[>r a part of the spirits ; but he prefers money if
:hey can give it. Whisky is also (old to the ta~
/em-keepers, who do not very generally pay for
t, until long after itis drank. It afo is ufualty
bartered with the (lore keepers for goods,
which it will be readily elieved a high profit is
;harged, as the (lore-keepers themselves must
keep the spirits until it becomes scarce, which
is generally the cafe after harvest, and at wh'
ime they fell it to the tavern-keepers, or l °
people that are trading, or moving down th®
iver. Those persons living near the Monon-
who make the spirits good and can keep it
3y them, have often a chance of felling it for
money, to those who are trading to the settle
ments down the Ohio, or to the Spanish settle
ments on the idiffifippi. In that cafe, if they8o not get the money immediately, they have
the promise of it when the trader returns ; winch
however has too often been diflolved bv the lois
of his life 01 of his car jo, by the depredations of
the savages. In fucli settlements, 1 have o'b
ferved wh.fkv orders pass from hand to hand,
like bank-notes, frequently funded on the credit
of whisky not vet exiiting. With these the far
mer will pay his blackftnith, and the blackftnith
will pay his taylor, &c. until at lass a number c
frr.all orders get condenled into 20 gallon loadi
of whisky. In the lettlemejns on the great ri
vers, they dispose of l:o:Ces, lands. &c. for t
certain moiety in money, and the reft in trade.
W-teii there, 1 was for some time, at a Tots t«
Comprehend what they nu ant by trade, but 1
loon found that th-.-v had specially appropriate!
that term to whisky, or to the grain that was de
fined to make it.
In all the weflern country, indeed, you cat;
get a field cleared, a log-bouse built, or any
01 her labour performed for a comp jnfatiou it:
whisky ; bu he who has money to give, can gei
it much cheaper ahd sooner done. However,
10 preserve a leeming equality, the baiter ptiet
of wfiifky Or grain, are kept much higherthan the
cash price; but a» might naturoHv he cxpetted,
the labour, or property bartered for it, is alio fc
much the higher. It is frequently carried ioui
or five davsjourney oh horseback, and lold ai
cheao for money or goods, as it was held at home
in barter. But this brings me to point out the
mod important life that is made of the fui plus af
ter I'atisfving the demand for horne coiifymprion
The farmeis thiefl) out forrie of their rve af
ter feeding-time, and get it made into whisky tc
carry to the towns below the mountain, in or
dar to barter it there for fait, and other goods, ,
man will load his horses, with two kegs to <1
borle, each kegcontaining ten gallons, with hi:
forage bags and knapsack between the kegs, oi
if he can afford it, take a horse to carry forage
and often travel loth day and night, o
when he rells at tiiiht,' will tie up hi
horses, and lay himfelf down by a tave:n-keep
ar's fire ; and when he arrives at the eaff fidt
of the mountain, goes perhaps from ffore t<
flore, and from ta\vn to town, before he car
barter it off for ifs, or if his fortune is good, a
per gallon, for particular gVrods ; for it i
not every knd of goods ihey will give forwhil
]ty. That they pay a high enough impoff upor
their fait, to procure which is the principa
at eEi of their journey, will be admitted, and
that they will be charted with a high enough
profit by the llore keepers will not be denied.
They spend no money on the road, except a
few whef put their horses some nights of theit
journey tohay, and take a bed and warm supper,
or spend a grog with the tavern-keeper, at whole
house they shelter. This is so general a cafe,
that it is known to every man who travels that
toad in the fall or winter ; very often there is
not room enough on the floor for thrm to lay
down; and these people Sre accustomed to live
Comfortably at home. And this firigle laborious
means of participating in the enjoyments ol
commerce, and partaking of those things, which
in common with us, are from long habits be
come necrflaiies, was?hefirft objett of the firfl
internal tax levied by Congress. Tell it not in
the nations of Europe, left the sons of del'po
liftn and corruption rejoice.
SIDNEY.
Advertisement Extraordinary.
At a general meeting of the ancient anc
united fraternity fcf Shavers and Pate-
Curriers of the cities of Philadelphia
and New-York, convened in Phila
delphia at the Barber's pole, near the
Co!i'ee-Houfe, April 21ft, 1792 ; the fol
lowing facts and refoiutions were ma
turely confideretl andunauiniouflyagreed
to.
WHEREAS the chins of certain custo
mers have, within a few week;
past, protruded downwards to a most un
natural and unconfciofiable length ; by
which the beard has become proportiona
lly extended, so as to double not only the
confump .011 of soap and steel, but also the
time need u 1 to remove the excrescence :
Refolded therefore,
That a law is tie perfection of reason
it fliall and may be lawful front and aftet
this day, for all Shavers (vulgarly callet
Baibers) to demand and receive respec
tively for every such beard they fliall take
of, double the sum hitherto accuffomed.
And whereas, the head hail* of many
persons wearing the beards aforefaid, ha?
within the like time become quite unma
nageable,—inasmuch as that such hair will,
in lpite of every common effort, rife up and
stand on end : By reason whereof a vali
eonfumption of the hardefl pomatum, to
gether with an increased quantum of la
bour, time and skill, have become indifpen
fibly r jquifite to keep such hair in tolerable
order—and which in obdurate cases has
been found to detain the operator laany
hours.
RrfcLved,
That for all such unruly heads, every
Pate-Currier (vulgarly called hairdrefler)
shall henceforth be entitled to demand and
receive from his employer, four times the
sum hitherto accuffomed to be taken.
Ex trail from the minutes.
STEPHEN STRAPANDSCRAPE,
TOBIAS TAMEHAIR,
PHILADEL P H I A.
Apr I L 30, 1792.
The Senate have already rejefled the b !:
for reducing the rate's of pottage 0.1 nev.f
papers. Havingfo soon expedited that b1 >-
linefs, they will have some spare time to
think of the Invalids.
It is said that there is the greatest probability
of a treaty being fliortly concluded between lh-
United States and the Spamfh court, by which
the navigation of the Miflifippi will be free 10
all nations.
Late S. Carolina papers teem with account!
of the heavy rains that have fallen in the unpei
parts of that {late, whereby the Congaree anc
Santee rivers have swelled to a height not par
ralelled in the annals of that Hate —The wate
role upwards of thirty feet in thirty hours, anc
inundated all the plantations bordering on tht
rivers; sweeping in its courle, houses, mills,
fences, &c. to a vail amrfunt. Several negroes
arid a great number of cattle and other (loci
perished. Two bridges of conliderable v:ilac
were borne down by the impetuoustorrent- Th.
(hocking elTecls of this tremendous mondatror
were not known to the full extent when the lal
accounts arrived.
A CbarleOon paper mentions, that on in
formation of Mr. Bowles's having taken poifel
lion of the iloie orMeffrs Panton, Leslie &Co
the Indians had difpatcheda party to put biin t<
death, but were prevented by the Sp«r,lards
who previously had fefit a veflel with a nurabe
ofioldiers; on their approach, the boat was fen
afr.ore, to inform Bowles that the vciTel wa
from the Weft-Indies with goods for him. li
coniequtnce of this information, he caine »i
board, when they seized him and immediate!',
made fail for St. Augustine, where Mr. Bowie,
is now confined in the caflle.
M'G'.llivray, it is said, has given notice tha
he will be at the Rock-Landing' about the be
ginning of May, with 30C0 of the Cieeks, it
order to confhm the treaty and run the lines.
Extract of a letter from Pittfbureh, ciatec
April 20.
"Yesterday Lieut. Jeffers arrived it; towr
from Fort-Franklin, accompanied by 21
Indians of the Seneca nation, to whict
place he intends returning in the course o:
a few days, where he vvili be joined by 10c
more, who are now out planting corn, foi
the support of their women until thei;
return."
Two parties, fayc a correspondent, hav;
Ihe'wn themselves in the doings of the neM
government- One have evidently thoughi
favorably of a great public debt—wherec:
the other have viewed it as an evil, howe
ver necelTary a one<
So also, one party have considered specu
lation as the very foul of public credit, anc
as the mark of ufeful enterprise and thriving
wealth. The other, with a contrary eye
have viewed it as the pampered child of ar
unruly avarice, and the prolific parent o:
jdlenefs, diiHpation and fraud.
Further, it has been the endeavor of ont
party to work the public debt into an in
(trumen t for heaping up vast wealth in th(
hands of a few, so as by the subtle efficac;
Of married influence, to divide and rule thi
rrtany. Tiie other have stood up
this kind at'policy, as tanjuft and unrepub
lican, and a:; injurious to ail the belt inter
efts of the country.
Again, one pUrty have advocated the \vi
deft conluuclions of the constitution, so a:
to carry the powers of the government fai
beyond the obvious intent and inean:n«
thereof, and therefore, beyond the gran!
of the pec,pie. The other have been" of t
different temper, and contended for a regu
lar observance of the constitution, equally
where it limits a-, where it grants powers,
and for cariying it into execution in a re
publican spirit and manner.
Time and events have decided the con
troversy between thele two sets of politici
ans ; and the public voice seems to be pro
nouncing the decision.
It appears thai a public debt is a public
evil every way, more cfpecially in such a
country and government like ours. All
parties now cry out for paying off the debt,
as the greuteft of public evils.
It appears that speculation, -tvhich in it:
ardor, filled the National Bank in one day,
and has been kept intoxicated by the spirit
of that institution, ever lince ; that specu
lation, which has dra'ned all the natural
channels of bufmefa, in order to swell the
mighty torrent in which it flowed j that
speculation which was born in extortion,
has been nursed in the arms of an ill-fated
policy, and exhibits the features of its ma
turity in baseness, in fraud and in ftyind
ling ; it appears that thisconfpicuous agent
in our affairs, in place of the industry,
wealth andlblid profperitv promised on one
fide, has produced all the extravagance,
prostitution of morals, and devastation of
the true sources of a flourifhing situation,
foretold on the other fide.
It appears, that the schemes for thowing
magnificent wealth into the undeserving
hands of a favorite few, and for undermi
ning the great republican barriers erected
by the constitution, have opened the eyes
:>f the people, and is calling forth the de
uionftrations of ti.eir general fanftion to th<
!■. i Ugcjesfliade by the friends of equal right,
jf cj;i titutiorial authority and republicar
lifHpu 'e-;
Thafe leafonable indications of the public
■nijJd are a liaopv proof of the force oi
ruth j".no"g a free people; and of tiie
i.vj, th'6'ugh flow interposition of its au
:!io'rity( io concrOul and correct an elective
government t'uftt doe:-, not conduct accord
ng to its true principles. This general in
ligmtiou against schemes that might b;.
legrefcs destroy the republican aonftitution
vhich binds up the people and ilales in one
;reat free system, must be the more pleas
ing to every friend of liberty and the union,
mafmuch as it {hews the fame desire in tbt
people every where to maintain both, and
:hat they ail adhere to the constitution as
:(lab!ilhed by themselves for that purpose,
vith defined powers and a republican form.
,l T.yp things are clear—"that the people
iclopted, and that they support the present
government. It is the glory of Americans,
:iiat they havfe dotfe this," See. [Gaz.U.S. j
Yes : much praise is due to the people of
America, for' erecting and supporting fucli
i noble fabric. It is strong, well propor
tioned, and calculated to weather many a
ilaft. But if a set of high-flying CaftU
buildets over-load it with turret, and spires
:o rear it to the clouds, the ftril itorm will
tumble it in ruin about their ears ; and the
ame confuiion and separation will eilfue,
that formerly took place amonj the aspi
ring architects of Eabel.
Clxtraft of a letter from an offeer of th'c
2d United States regiment, to a gentle
man in Providence, dated Marietta,
March ij.
" Such has been the severity of our win
ter, that the Ohio and Mufkingum rivers
pafiable upon their furfaees witlr
teams ;—a eircumftance very unusual in
this country.
" To this inclemency we may however
ifcribe, in a great degree, the pacific de
portment of the neighboring Indians \ they
aaving been confined by the rigor of the
>a~on to their respective towns, in cotife
yUence of which we have been at leifureto
sreStan additional block-hotrfe,- and other
wise strengthen our works.
" The garrison having been reinforced
by the arrival of lieutenant Howe afti 30
men from Pittsburgh, we are now in a (itu
ation to afford these bipeds of the sorest a
very warm reception, should they poflefs
the temerity to provoke it.
At a meeting of the Direct Or". of the Soci
ety for establishing pfeful manufacture':
held at Powles Hook, in the state of New
Jersey, on Friday the twentieth dayoi
April 1792.
The committee appointed to examine
and report to the board, the state of the
funds of the society, report as follows :
THAT the sum of jo,ooo dollars ap
propriated by the board at their meeting ir
January last for the purpose of procurinj
the neceiiary articles from Europe, ha:
been remitted, and the several articles or
dered may be expecled to arrive in tht
months of June and July.
That the sum of 5000 dollars has beet
appropriated for the pay of workmen anc
for other contingent expences of the soci
ety and is nearly expended. And the faic
committee further report that they havt
examined the different persons employee
in preparing the machinery for the fociet)
and report .that tlte Several branches are ir
great torwardnefs.; some of which are rea
dy to be put up as soon as the neeeffar)
buildings are prepared.
That the sum of io,oco dollars whict
the board appropriated for procuring worl
men and materials under the direction o1
the government has been paid to him foi
that purpose, and that he has given aflu
rances that the society may reft fttisfied ii:
the security as well as the fslthfril applica
on of this fund.
That the sum of sixty three thousand dol
lars has been inverted in the deferred ftocl<
of the United Siates. which stock is entered
in the name of the society in the books oi
John Cochran Commiifioner of loans in the
liate of New-York.
That the reiidue of the monies received
on the firft payment {till remain in tht banks
u-nere they v\ ere originally depoiked.
Ordered, I hat the foregoing report be
publiihed.
A true extract from the minutes.
ELISHaBOUDINOT, Seer. P. T.
We hear that a special meeting of the
Directors are called to meet at Newark on
Tuesday the 15th day of May next, for the
purpose of fixing upon the permanent feat
of the said fattory.
Tranjlatedfrom the Leyden GaztHe.
The following is an extract of a letterfrom London
dated January 20.
" The people of England, efperially the
Londoners, enthuliaftic as they are in the
idea of a certain independence, are not
withstanding the molt fluplcl admirers oi
ihefr court, when it affords any traits of
Iplendor gr magnificence to ft ast their.eyes
and feed their eurioiity. The 18th of this
nioutir was the day fixed to celebrate the
Queen's birth-day. Our public papers,
ever lubferviin: to the public taste, were
ft titled with accounts of the pompous and
Cplendid exhibitions which were to take
place on this brilliant day ; the drrfics that
were to be worn, the state-coach of the
prince of Wales, and the imnrenfe number
of diamonds with which this prince, the
queen, the princefies and the ladies of the
court were covered, from head to foot. —
Another circumftante, frtuchlefs agreeable,
j is idle burning of the Pantheon. This mag
nificent ed:fice, tiled for the purpose of
public ath'ufement, aitd whick had m::de
the fortune of many individuals has been
reduced to allies, on the nights of the 13th
and 14th of January,' only the external
walls being left, of the ivhole of that su
perb pile.—On the f2th'inft. the melfenger,
r lint, was sent oft" to the court of Berlin
with dispatches, which are fa id to contain
the result of three cabinet co'r.fultations.
The alliance about to be eftabliflied be
tween the emperor and the states general
to' guarantee his sovereignty in the Belgic
provinces and the government eftabliflied
m the united provinces appears to be not so
weft relifrsed by aur court as by that of Ber
lin. The answer given thereto by the
states general, has prbved vague and dila
tory. Bclides this, our mirtiftry seem' not
to be disposed to consent to the reftritlions
which the court of Vienna, in its ratifica
tion, had impofe'd upon the convention at
tile Hague. In the mean time, no power
finds itielf so much at leilure as England,
to improve its financial concern:, ; and
great things are expected on this score at
the opening of the next session of parlia
ment. In consequence our stocks are ve- 1
ry high, Bank. 203, India, 156."
B O S T O X, April 19.
News from the WeJi.lnd.ics,
Since our lait, several vefTels have arrived
here from Port-au-Price ; all of which bring the
mod gloomy account, of tile fnuation pf°that
illand ; the diflrefles of which appear to be ow
ing, not more 10 the revolt arid devaflatioh of
the Haves than to the enmity prevailing among
the treemen, and the want of fubordniati'on to
any government.
About the 13th of March, the negroes at
tacked the town <>1 Leogaue, let fire to the plan
tations on the plain, and were joined by the ne
groeiJ thereon, who had till then been in quiet
fcrvitude : after much fighting and burning, the
negroes retreated. Many were killed on°both
fides—the lowcft number, including all parties
and colours is dated at ioco.
Capt. Wollman of Salem, who failed from
Port-au-Prince the 23d of March, at evening,
informs, that 1000 militia and 500 regulars
marched cut that morning, said to be on'ac
count of the iiifmrection of the negroes on seve
ral plantations on the .plain, who had drove
their mailers into town. —That they were met
and opposed by the mulattoes, whose head quar
j ters were only 4 nnles from the town. —That
he saw numbers of wounded biought into town
| while he was on shore.—That the battle conti
nued all day—and that its issue vas unknown
. when he failed.
A detachment of the regular troops had been
called for, by the municipality, to go to Leo -
I gane, at the time of the negroes attacking that
place, and boats Were prepared to tratifport
i them ; but the oil ice is refufed to etnba' k—as they
laid their orders were to defend the town of Port
au-Piince—they therctore could not answer for
their quitting their flatten. For the lame reason,
they have alio refufed to march to the plains a
round Port-au-Prince. But the clamours of the
populace, and of the private foldiei s, bring for
aflion, the Municipality caused the officers to be
arrefled, and sent to the Cape, in ordtr to be
carried to Fiance. After thi new officers being
fubfliiuted, the troops marched out, as befoie
mentioned,
This day is Publifhci, and to be Sold by
ROBERT CAMPBELL, Bookseller ;
No. 54, Second[tret South, and by all the prin
cipal Hookjetlers in Philadelphia,
( — Price 3-8 ths of a Dollar.)
Proceedings in the House of Re-prefentatives of
the United States of America, rcfpc&ing the
CONTESTED ELECTION
For the Eajlern Dijlritl of ihe Jlate of GEORGIA,
CONTAINING, tie Petition of Gene/a! James
Jackson again ft the cleft ion of General Antho
ny WayN e , and th? proceedings relative to the
Rclulutions directing the mode of conducting the
Trial ; ivilh a of the Debates from the com
mencement to the end of the bujinefs ; in. luding the
Speeches oj both parties ; a Jkerch of Mi . Lewis's
Defence j counsel fcr General Wayne ; and the con
l c euding Speech of General JaciJin for tuhicb he
received the apflaufe of the auditors. Also, the
fub/equfnt proceedings of the House re/petting his
riglu to 3 feat after ihe election of the fitting mem
ber had been dec ared illegal,
Together with A Supplement containing a
fun.mary of the proceedings of the legijlature of
Georgia relative to the impeachment of Judge
Use ok ne, taken from the papers Jent under the go
vernment feet, £=Tc. of the Jiate, and produced by
Mr. JJaldwin, which on debate lucrertjeded.A to I II Z S T I C.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At - full Sefii.'ii,begun and held at the city cl
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennfylv.-.nia :
on Monday the f.vcnty-fmtrtli of Oitchcr, one
thonfand icven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT to CuMpenjat: th: Corporation o;
Truflees of the Public Grammar-Shoo
and Academy of Wilmington in th: State
cf Delaware,for the occupation of, ana
damages done to the jaid School, during
the latt mar.
BE it enailed by i 'hi Senate and Hoiife oj
Repreferitatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, That as an
indemnification to the corpora: ion oi
Truflees of the public grammar-School
and academy of Wilmington in the (late
of Delaware, for the ute and occupati
on of the said ichool, and the damages
done to the lame by the troops of the
United States, daring the late war, there
be granted to the laid corporation oi
Truflees, a rcalbnable c'ompenfation.
payable out of any unappropriated mo
ney in the treasury of the United States,
v.'hich compenlation (hall be ascertain
?d by the accounting officers of the
1 reafury.
Jonathan Tmjmbull. Speaker of t/u
House of Reprefalativcs.
John Adams, Vice-Prefitentof the
United States, and Prefdent
of the Senate
Approved, April thirteenth, 1792.
G. Washington, Prrfdrrt of the
United Stairs.
An ACT ccneerr.tvg Consuls and Vice
GCNSUI.S.
For carrying into full effect the conven
tion between the King of the French,
and t!ie United States of America,
entered into for the purpose of defin
ing and eflablifhingthe functions and
privileges of their refpe&ive Consuls
nnd Vice Consuls ;
BE it enabled by the Senate and Ilouft oj
Reprefentaiives of t'he United States of
America, in Congress affemiled, I hat
■where in the leventh article of the said
convention, it is agreed that when there
shall be no consul or vice consul of the
King of the Frencl*, to attend to the
favingof the wreck, of any French vef
fcls (branded on the coafls of the United
States, or that the refide«ce of the said
consul, or vicc consul (he not being at
the place of the wreck) shall be mote
distant from the said place than that of
the competent judge of the country, the
latter shall immediately proceed to per
form the office therein prescribed ; the
diflrift judge of the United States of
the diflritt in which the wreck shall
happen, shall proceed therein, accord
ing to the tenor of the said article. And
in such cases it shall be the duty of the
officers of the cuftotns within whose
diftrifts such wrecks shall happen, to
give notice thereof, as soon as ftiay be,
to the said judge, and to aid and affifl
him to performthe duties hereby affign
cd to him. The diftrift judges of the
United States shall also, within their
refpe&ive diflrifts be the competent
judges, for the purpoles exprelled in
the ninth article of the said convention,
and it (hall be incumbent on them
to give aid to the consuls and vicc con
suls of the King of the French, in ar
reting and fecurir.g deserters from vef
lcls of the French nation according tc
the tenor of the said articlc.
And whereby any article of the said
Convention, the consuls and vice con
lyls of the King of the French. are en
titled to the aid of the competent execu
tive officers of the country, in the exe
cution of an* precept, the marshals of
the United States, and their deputies,
(hall, within their refpettive diftrift:
be the competent officers, and shall give
their aid according to the tenor of the
flipulations.
And whenever commitments to the
jails of the country shall bccome neces
sary in pursuance of any stipulation ol
the said Convention, they shall be tc
such jails within the refpeftive diftrifts
as other commitments under ths autho
rity of the United States are by law
made.
And for the dire£tion of the consuls
and vice consuls of the United States in
certain cases.
Be it enabled by the authority aforefaid,
That they shall have right in the ports
for places to which they are or may be
liVeraliy appointed ef receiving the
Dvotefts or ticr;..vations, v.inch f;ch
captains, matters, crews, paflcngcrs and
merchants, as are citizens of the Unit
el States may vci'peftively chufe to
make there ; and also such as any fo
reigner may chuic to make before them
relative to the personal intercit of any
citizcns of the United States ; and the
topics of the laid aAs duly authenticat
ed by the said coniuls and vice consuls,
under the seal of their c<;nlulatcs, ref
peftively, shall receive faith in law,
squally as their originals would in all
rourts in the United States. It shall be
.heir duty where the laws of the coun
ry permit, to take poffeflion of the per
ron:d estate left by any citizen of the
United States, other than seamen bc
onging to any fh'.p or velfel who fliall
die within their confulatc; leaving there
no legal representative, partner in trade
:>r truftrc by him appointed to take
care of his effe&s, they shall inventory
he fame with the aififtanceof two mer
chants of the United States, or for want
of them, of any others at their choice ;
fliall eol'ett the debts due 10 the deceas
ed in the country here he died, and
oay the debts due from his estate which
he' fliall have there contracted ; fliall
ell at auction after veafonable public
notice such part of the estate as shall
he of a penlhable nature and such fyr
[iici part, if any, as shall be necessary
for the payment of hi*s debts, and at the
expiration of one year from his decease,
ihe refidueand the balance of the
estate thev fliall transmit to the treasury
of"the United States, to be holden in
trust for the legal claimants. But if a:
any time before such tranfmtffion, the
legal representative of the deceased
shall appear and demand his effe&s in
.heir hands, they shall deliver them up,
paid their fees, and shall cease
heir proceedings.
For the information of the rcprcfen
ative of the deceased, it shall be the
duty of the consul orvice consul author
zed to proceed as afowlaid in the fet
lement of his estate, immediately to
lOtify his death in one of the gazettes
aublifhcd in the confulatc, and also to
;he Secretaiv of State, that the !<me
nay be notified in the state to which
he deceased fliall belong ; and he shall
dfo, as soon as may be, transmit to the
secretary of State, an inventory of the
:ffefts of the deceased taken as before
] i reftec!.
And be it further evaEhcd, That the said
:onlulsand vice consuls, in cases where
"hips or vetrels of the United States fliall
)C stranded on the coasts of their con
ulates refpe£tively, shall, as far as the
aws of the country will permit, take
iropermeafures, as well for the purpose
jf saving the said ships or I'eflels, their
:argoes and appurtenances, as for ftor
ng and securing the effects and mer
;handizes laved, and for taking an in
ventory or inventories thereof ; and the
nerchandize and effects saved with the
nventory or inventories thereof taken
is aforcfaid, shall, after deducting there
from the expense, be delivered to the
avvner or owners. Provided, That no
consul or vice consul fhajl have autho
rity to take poffeflion of any such goods,
waves, merchandize ©r other property,
when the mailer, owner or con-fignee
thereof is present or capable of taking
poffeflion of the fame.
Arid be it further enabled, That it shall
and may be lawful for every consul and
vice consul of the United States, to take
and receive the following fees of office
for the services which he fliall have
performed.
For authenticating under the conlular
seal, evary protcft, declaration, demoli
tion, or oth«r ast, which such captains,
masters, mariners, seamen. passengers,
merchants or others as arc citizens or
the United States may refpeftively
chufe to make, the sum of two dollars.
For the taking into poffeflion, inven
torying, 'tiling and finally fettling and
paying, or transmitting as aforwfaid, the
balance due on the personal estate left
by any citizen of the United States who
fliall die within the limits of his consu
late five per centum on the grots amount
of such estate.
For taking into poffeflion and other
wise proceeding on any such estate
which fliall be delivered over to the le
gal representative before a final fettle
men tof the fame, as is herein before
diretted two and an halt per oenturti on
lucii pavt deliveved over as shall not be
in money, and five per centu® on the
jrols amount of the reftd 1 :".
And it fliaU be the duty of the co:i
fi:!s and vice c£>nfuL of the United Start
to give receipts for all fees which the)
shall receive by virtue of this <itt. ex
prefiing the particular lervicei so:
which they are paid.
And be it further enacted, 'I hat in caU
it be found neceilary loi the inUuii,
the United States, that a coniul or cop
fuls be appointed to relide on the coali
of Barbai v, the President be authorized
to allow an annual (alary, not exceed
ing twothoufand dollars to each perlon
so to be appointed : Provided, ihat fuc! ;
salary be not allowed to more than one
consul for any one of the dates on the
said coast.
And be it further en ailed, That ever;,
consul and vice-consul shall, before
they enter on the execution of theii
trusts, or if already in the execution o
fhc fame, within one year from the pad
ing of this ast, or if rcfident in Asia
within two years, give bonds with fuel
furetics as shall be approved by the Sc
cretary ef State, in a sum of not lei;
than two thousand nor more than tei
thousand dollars, conditioned for th<
true & faithful discharge of the duties o
J li s office accord ing to law, and also for tru
ly accounting for all monies, goods anc
effects which may cotnc into his pofl'elTior
by virtue of this ast v t^le ' a ' c ' bone 1
Ihall be lodged in the office of the Se
cretary of the Treasury.
And be it further enacted, That to pre
vent the mariners and ieamen. employed
in vclfels belonging to citizens ol
the United States,in cafe« of Ihipwrjck
iickncfs or captivity, from fuffering lr
foreign ports, it shall be the duty of th-E
consuls and vice consuls refpeflfcively.
from time to time to provide for them
in the mod reasonable manner, at the
expense of the United States, fubjeft tc
such inftruttions as the Secretary ol
State lhall give, and not exceeding an
allowance of twelve cents to a man per
diem ; and all masters and commanders
of vcfi'els belonging to citizens ot the
United States, and bound to some port
of the.fame, are hereby required and
enjoined to take such mariners or fea
mcn ou board of their ships or vessels.
at the request of the laid con Cub or vice
confuls felpc&ively, and to tranfpori
them to the ptjrt, in the United State;
to which such ships or vcll'els may be
bound free of costs or charge , but thai
the said mariners or seamen (hull, ifabl<
be hound to dodutvon board ' uch ship:
or vessels according to their several abili
ties: Provided, That no inafter or captan
of any ship or velfel, fliall be obliged t<
take a greater number than two rnei
to every one hundred tons burthen o
the said ship or veflcl, on any one voy
ago: and if any such captain or made:
{hall refufe the fame on tho request o
Older of the consul or vice consul, luc!
captain or master shall forfeit and pa)
the sum of thirty dollars for each mari
ner or fcaman so refufed, to be recover
ed for the benefit of the United State:
by the said consul or vice cenlul ii
his own name, in any court of compe
tent jurisdiction.
And be it further mcElsd, That when
a ship or veifel belonging to citizens o
the United States is lold in a fort'.g!
port or place, the inafter, unlcfs live
crew are liable by their contrast or d<
consent to bedifcharged there, shall lent
them back to the date where they en
tercd on boaia, or furnifh them witl
means fufficient lor then return, to be
ascertained by the-conful or vice coufu
of the United States, having jurifd.ith
on of the port or place. And in caf<
of the masters reiuial, the laid coniul 01
vice consul may (if the laws ol the lane
permit it) caufc his ship, goods and pel
ion to be arrested and held until he
{hall comply with his duty herein.
And be it further enacted, i .Vat the fpe
cilication of certain powers and duties
in this a ft, to be exercised or performec
by the consuls and vice consuls ot thf
United States, shall not be construed te
the exclusion ol others resulting -fron
the nature of their appoinMnehts, or an;,
treaty or convention under which the)
may a6l.
Jonathan Trimhui, l, Speaker cf t'r.
Honfe of Representatives.
John Adams, l-.ce-Prefident of tiu
United States, and Pvefiden,
of the Senate.
Approved, April fourteenth, 1792.
G. Washington, President of tin
United States.
IV " 'r '.L Tirritcy c f Colmi-a-
A P i" E M I U M
OF 500 dollars, or a medal of that va!>tP»
at the option of- the party, will be g»v»
;n by the Coniiwffionfcrs ot the federal
Building" to the person who, befo.'e the
ifceer.th day ot' Jyly next, lhall produce to
:bem the inoit app: cvtrd plan, it adopted by
:hem, for a IVeiident'.i hotife to be erected
11 this city. The lite of the building, it
:he artist will attend to it, will of course
nflnence the alpect and outline of hispl.ift,
md it's delHnitttoa will point out to him
:he number, lize, and distribution of rlif
ipartnieuts. It will be-a recommendation
jf any plan, if the central part of it may be
letached and erected for the pre'fent, with
:!ie appearance of a complete whole, and
ji capable of admitting the additional parti,
in future, if they (hall be wanting. Draw
ings will be expected of the ground plats,,
elevations of each front, and fedions
through the building in fttch direction- as
may be necefiary to explain the internal
ltru;ture ; and an estimate of the cubic feet
of brickwork, composing the wjiole mass of
the walls. The Commissioners.
March 14, 1795.
H'sfhtngitttt, 1 the Territory cf Columbia.
A PREMIUM
OF a lor in this City to be defignatcd by
impartial judges and 50c dollars ; cr a
medal of that value, at the option of the
jai ty, will be given by the Coinmiiiioners
as tiie Federal Bnildings, to the perfcn.
why, before the fifteenth day of July 171)2,
hall pri-duce to them the molt approv ed
>lan, if adopted by them, for a Capitol to
5e erected in this city, and 350 dollar-, or
1 medal for the plan deemed new in itif : :t
0 tiie one they ihall adopt. The buildiiig
:o be of brick, and to contain the following
spartments, to wit. „
\ conference room 1 c.ent to /.
\ room for the Re- I accommodate o o
prefentatlves f 3 co persons g ...
r J each. § C
1 lobby or antichamber to the latter. g v
A. Senate room of 12CO square feet ,113
area. jS <5
An antichamber or lobby to the Sail. J [-1 5
j rooms of 600 square feet area, each, for
rommittee rooms and clerks offices, to be
>f half the elevation of the former. Draw
ngs will be expected of the ground plats,
devations of each front, and sections
hrough the building in such directions as
nay be neceflary to explain the internal
tructure, and an estimate of the cubic feet
)f brickwork compoiiug the whole mass of
he walls. The Commissioners.
Mjrch 14, 1792
This day is publijheci Price 6/6.
By MATHEW CAREY.
A'e. 118. Market-flreet, near fourth Jireel,
The Ladies' Library,
Containing
7 • Miss Mo re's Eiiays
2. Gregory's Legacy
3. Lady Pennington's advice
4. Marc-hionefs of Lambert's advice
r. Swift's Letter to a new marriec Lady
6. Mils Chapone on Command of temper
7. More's Fables for the Ladies.
Said CAREY has 'lately publifbeJ
1. M * Fingal, an epic poem, 2/9 1-2
%. Blair's Sermons, complete in two vols 15/.
3. Neck.ar% treatifeon Religious Opinions, 6/.
4. Examination of Sheffield's Observations, 4JS
5. American Confritutions, 4/8
6. 'Donway Bible---neat, 6 dol., elegant 50/2
.7. Vade Mecum, 1/10 1-2
8. C.ir)es Graftdifon abridged, 1/3
9. Humphrey's poems, bound 2/0, tn blue pa
urr j/io !-2
io- ArHei'<cnn Jefc Rook> in 2 part?, bound, 4/i
1 r. 4>eU , o iff
12. shir.l: Well On'r, r/10 1 2
13. Beauties of Poetry, Bi rtifti and American, 6/
ii. Be i'tH s element* of moral fck-nce, 5/7 1-2
15. The Chriiiian Economy, 1/10 1-2.
* S: * Sets oj the American Mufetrn*
AS Jfueval gentlemen in different parts of the
U'-r:d Srj:r:s, have been heretofore Atfappoinfed
a ;r r.pp ::atinns for complete Jets of 'he Ame
-1.1. /.the printer informs the ju.L!ic y that
be is engaged in reprinting the deficient numbers cf
toe ivork, i.r.d has notu and ivill henceforiv zrd
have a ccnjiar.t supply of Jets cn hand \ Ju,h gen
■'etm-n, the efore t aspUafe, may be- furnished ?oith
Uts ready bound, in ten -volumes, at ftxteen dc4lars.
This work ivill be found to contain at eafl as
a variety of political, agricultural, and mi/-
dlaneous e/jay* as any ever publijbed in America.
Off aid Carey maybe had, ivh&lefale and retail,
Bibi- } Tefatnents, Spelling-Books > l J rimers, Quills,
(r.k-Pt W«r, Writing-Paper of various kinds,
(Jonnet-Paper j P.ocket- Books, Ink-Stands, Idejfage
tnd.fUi\ cards, &c &c, (ttiazu
■X-4-X- The Printing-Office of the National Ga~
retu is removed from No. 239, to 209, High (or
Market) Street, above fifth Street.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAINE,
AT "« f' EiROF J" IC K,N 0. 209> HIGK-STRKIT
NEAR SIXTH-STREKT,
"HaA^ILEHIA.