[Numb. 5 of Vol. ll.]
Continuation of official papers from Mar
seilles.
A RESOLUTION in the form of a
decree of Section, Numb- 13 of the
grand Carmelities.
On this day Aug. 13th 1792* the 4-tf 1
year of liberty the citizens of Section,
Numb. 13, to the amount of 375
voters, being legally afismbled ill the
church of the penitents, the President
having opened thefeifions, a citizen ob
tained leave to speak, and addressed the
afleiiibly as follows.
Brethren and Friends,
« i 'HE nation that has long been tht
vittim of oppression and embarraf
ment, occasioned by the enemies of liberty
is now rising in a l its energy to do ltfelj
justice. Its fufferings, and above all, th<
horrid plot 10 destroy our patriotic citi
zens, has kindled a spirit of vengeance
The dilatory procedure of courts, the im
punity of thfe that have confpirec
againlt the nation, have alike aciuatec
the people to take the distribution of jnf
tiqe into their own hands. The illegal exe
cutions, but necessary in the present difaf
tions circumstances of'the country, seen
to have produced some good effe£ls. Thi
aiiftocrat, the haughty nobleman, the im
petioas egotist have alike trembled, ant
were glad to consider themselves on :
level with those true and good citizens
v/ho till now had stood almolt alone in th<
contest for liberty. But, brethren anc
friends, fear knows neither remedy noi
physician. Those men who have openly de
clared their anti patriotic fentimenrs o;
have (hown themselves discontented wit:>,
or even indifferent to this our gloriam re
volution, tortured with remorse, canno!
■endure the glances of the friends of liberty:
they dread their just resentment, and tc
avoid it can devise no better means than
flight. Notw thftanding the molt nttive
endeavors of the municipa ity a multitude
of citizens have quitted Marfleslles. Sucl
an emigration may be attended with tin
Jiioft ruinous effedts during the ensuing win
ter. The existence of Marseilles depends
upon her commece, commerce alone feeds
us, ai d when that is suspended the (oiirei
of our subsistence is gone Marieilles b\
her situation is an emporium of trade, th-.
maeazin- of Europe If foreign coun
ters Ihould learn that Marseilles is torn by
intestine convulsions they will be cautious
how they fuffer their veflels to approach
us, and will fend them to other places
It is well known that the wheat harvelts
have been bad abroad, and even now tin:
this article is extremely dear. If, unfor
tunatelv the wheat cargoes should avoii
-the port of Marseilles, this line city
among the lit ft in the lift, of the Frencl
capitals will be in the utmoll danger
Now since it is incontestable that com
ir.erce declines in every country when
peace and tranquility are not efiablifhed
let us seriously endeavor to put an em
to these alarms which are daily increasing
and fpreadin;;- with aftonilhing rapidit'
to all nations with whom we have a com
mercisl intercotirfe. It will doubtless, b:
» glorious thing for the citizens of fedioi
No. 13. to (how themselves among tin
foremoft in re-eftablifning peace and gooc
Understanding in Marseilles, and to enfuri
thefafety of life and property, i propof
then to the *ffembly to decree, firft, tha
all citizens of this fe&ion, individually
keep a drift eye upon the enemies ol
their country 2d. That eve-ry person de
tected in a conspiracy against liberty.
- or treason against the country, be denoun
ced by the citizens (to whom such in
formation (hail come) to the conftitutinp
powers, that the trial of such person may
be had according to law. 3d. That the
person so accused (hall not be visited by
the citizens of the feftion without an ex
press permit in writing from the muni
cipality, or the justices of the peace. ...
By P. FRENEAU: PubliJlied Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Thrke Dollars per annum .
W E D N E S D A Y, November 14, 1792.
As often as a private person, accused or
any crime whatever, (hall be arretted, ci
ther in virtue of a mandatory decree, or
in consequence of public clamour, the ci
tizens of the fe&ion (hall prote£l him till
he is conduced to prison ; and thty (hall
oppose with all their power every injury
offered to his'perfcn. 5. That the minuies
of the proceedings of this meeting fhali
befentto all the other fe&ions, tc invite
them to take similar meafuies, by their
adherence thereto.'
The assembly having strongly applau
ded the preceding address and propositi
ons, resolved unanimously to adopt them
in their full extent. They further dt
cree that thanks shall be rendered to the
municipal it y, to whom (hall be deputed
four commissioners, with authority to af
furethe firll msgiftrate that all the citi
zens of the feclion, will not cease to fe
cund their paternal views, to refpeft the
mandates of their authority ; a.id that
the above resolutions be printed and affix
ed to the certificates of approbation from
the other fedtions.
The other 23 fedlions of the city Sc the
fubtirbs have unanimously agreed to the
above declaration, & have made similar en
gagements with the citizens of feftion
No j3.
Certified, See.
F. G A LIBERT, President.
Allemand Sec.
THE principal qualifications of mer
chants,and the foundation of their callincr,
have at all times confided in forefight, a
readiness in calculation, and practical
speculation.
Th«; existing (late of things requires from
:heir patriotism the molt serious reflections
n regard to certain articles indifpenfablv
rieceflary for the use of their fellow citi
zens, which we are oMiged to receive from
i.'jroad, and iha plenty or scarcity of
which ei;her inereafes or diminishes the
prices. Thus things call aloud for the ut
molt exertion of their talents and abili
ties.
By m ans of their extensive correfpond
encethe daily adv ces they arc receiving
continually from abroad, and the result of
their computation on foreign pn'ces, they
may readily discover what countries will
alternately have it moil in their power to
k'pply our wants, in the article of corn,
according to the quantity of their annua!
and res edive crops It is generally un
'erftood, that Marseilles is the great mar
ket for whatever grain is consumed, nol
• nly in its own ditlriet, bnt alio in the
uther departments of the fc.ith of France.
Spain, the duchy cf Nice, and the rivet
Genoa; Italy, Sicily, the island of Sardi
nia, Levant, and Africa have been hereto
fore our particular refourccs, bt;! at rate;
extremely dear. England, and the coun
tries on the Baltic, have also contributes
(omething ; unfortunately, the crops art
indifferent, we may even fay bad, through
out the Mediterranean. Spain will havt
to import largely for herfelf. The pro
vince ot Languedor, whicK till 1789
rendered U3 large supplies, as well as tc
Toulon and its vicinity, has ever fincc
!jeen inca(ab!e of supplying its own c!c
niaild- : and there is no doubt "but that the\
mud import for themselves this year,
Burgundy a/id the F-anche Conite do in
deed promise a large supply of beans :
but their crops of wheat are pcor, and
will prevent them exporting any furthei
than Lyons.—Adviccs from Naples, ol
the 4th current (August) confirm the ac
counts of bad harvests in th ;fe parts, as
well as in Sicily, where the exportation
will not only l e prohibited, but they art
about to lay duties upon imported corn.
Inltead, therefore of being fupplieJ from
that quarter, it is to be apprehended that
they themlclves will (land in need. In
fnch circumftarxes it is, doubtless moll
pruutnt for us to procure grain from more
remote countries, and our immediate du
ty to take the moil decided me a ft; res tc
supply our o'.i'n wants, and those of our
neighbours : and to tin's ohj-.-dt the ho'.ife
of Stephen C.thalan and son (the latter of
whom is here, in quality of Vice consul
for the fJnitcd States of America) has
turti'ed its attention
This house has been conllantly writing
'"or a year pait to its correspondents in
America, during ali v.! ich time the prof
pedt has been very favourable for difpof
ng both of corn and flour here to an ad
vantage They have likewise written to
i-.omdeaux, to fsveral Span fh ports, parti
cularly Cadiz, where their vefTels are al
ways ordered to (lop to enquire what port
in the Mediterranean affords the bell mar
ket. Notwithstanding all this, cargoes of
the above mentioned articles have not ye:
U'ot further on towards us than Barcelona
we hope hoivever, that from the induce
ments and additional encouragements that
are daily held f-.rth, a plentiful f ipply may
yet be had. The time however from now
rill the Ijth of December (the season foi
fro ft fettingin) is short. Suppose advices
to arrive in America, and vessels to be la
den out in confeqt!ence,it will be theniid He
at February before they can beat sea. Bui
ihe navigation not being open till March
the cargoes cannot reasonably be lookei;
for here till the middle of April or May,
at which time the American fl»g wilt be
exposed to the depreda ions of lhe Alge
rines ; and it is not easy to find crews
composed of freemen that wili expose
tiiemfelves to flaveiy upon any conlidei«
tion whatever. It is only from the lull
of November to the nth of March thai
American merchant vessels can appeal
with fafety in the Mediterannean.
The Sieur Cathalan (junior) who fore
faw our probable wants abottt the begin
ning of this month (August) formed ,
design of making a journey to Bourdeaux.
lo confer with Mr. Feruvick, the Ameri
:an Consul there, on the likeliefl means ta
engage our friends in the United States
:o fend to this poit, before the winter set f
in, the greatefl possible number of vessels
iaden with grain and flour.
But in order to give more energy to Mr.
Cathalan's conferences with the American
consul at Bourdeaux, and moll of a ; l to
his letters to the government of the Unit
ed States, it is left to your judgment whe
ther it would not be proper for the may
ar arid municipality o! Marfeiiks to write
a fh >rt letter (with triplicates) to Gene
ra! Walliirgton, PreuJent of the United
States, by which his attention may be for
cibly attrailed upon our wants. Such a
'ettir would have great weight, and might
procuie ready and abundant supplies.
The United States are wholly in want
Lif taffia, or ruin, the usual drink of the
Americans Brandy, notwithstanding the
high price it was at la It winter, and ilill
s, will nevertheless afford a profit, and
will be at lead two and an ha'f per ccnt
cheaper after the vintage. The Ameri
can vessels will consequently find very
profitable returns on the advantageous
lales of their cargoes ; and we fhr.ll eventu
ally, fee tl'.em coming to tills port in
great numbers, and eib.blifhing a benefici
al commerce between the two nations
The oicur Cathalan, junior, at all times
zeaious for his country's welfare, submits
the preceding memorial to the v.'ifdom
and good judgment of the mayor of Mar
teiiies.
It has been asserted that the remafk of 3
coriefpoude'nt [in the National Ga
zette of Nov. 3] that tTimlin of th>
Engli/h parliament uni by law ir.elegibi
at kat'wnal l-enk-. 'ir-in .—: 1 not tru:
and an authority has been produced to
prove the assertion iii-forinded. Or.
this fubjett a writer in the Daily Ad
vertifcr of lalt Saturday, observes a-,
follows :
IT maybe true that members of the
British house of common': may be : '■
di:e£torsof their Nalioaj)! Bank, but what
[Total No. ioq.]
does that prove ? T hat our errors can be
j'llified by theirs ? A vile conclulion !
and abhorrent to the mind of every son of
liberty. What species of tyranny—what
faux pas in admin ilration— what op
pression of the citizen or fabjeft, but
might (jaote its precedent from that coun
try ? When fubjeds, like this occur to
my mind, I feel an irrefiitibie propeiifi.''
!o bear testimony against the deductions
.00 frequently made from them. Are \vc
ifter approaching the years of rational
maturity, to retrace the steps of our poli
lCai education, and be drawn back to the
r mmeis of European habits and prejudi
.es : No ! Common sense—common
ntereft, and common lafety, forbid it 5
t find some difliculry to forbear beintf
ranlpcrted into a train of faillery and
lbufe of iuch pradhces : which, howevei*
s not my present purfu.it.
I declare myfelf attached to the initi
ation of the bank of the United States,
■oth from principle and from my interet't.
Banking incorporations, in every govern
nent where they have been eftablifeed,
lave been found instruments of jrreat po
ency, and it mult be conceded that the
ame powers wheh enable them to be of
-'Xleniive utility,may readily be perverted;
>nd frequently are, to produce immense
njury. 1 herefore, too intimate a con»
ledtion between the adminiflrntion of go
vernment, and of such nllitli ions, ouoht
:o be carefully guarded againit 5 and
lence it 13, that I object to members of
Congress being, at the fame time, Direc
tors of the bank of the United States,
aotwithftanding a precedent may be found
in England. I was opposed to it origin
ally from principle, and am no.w from ex
perience. Without duelling on each head
Jt favouritifm, accommodation, and pcf*
fible bribery—(for the doctrines of
precedence make us fear every thing)
1 fay, wavingthefethings, it is abundantly
evident that too much facility exiils for ef-
Feaing an encreafe of the national debt
by loans, See. without inducements for
Jifcharging them ; v.-i.ich, of all others,
ire the moll dangerous measures in a free
:ountry, because tliey cannot be undone*
out by a revolution and individual robbery.
As to in (lances of practice ; many things
sre fufpe&ed and believed ; which, how
?ver improper, at present elude exposure j
Time may Unfold some of them ; one,
however, (hould not be fupprtfled. The
zeal of our present or late directors to
the intetells of public departments
and private potentates, when it was a
favour to obtain discounts, totally pro
scribed a certain description of people,
let thfir property, their credit, or tliofe
of their indorfers, be what they might 5
and this was done, ] am told, not !»y a bye
aw,but by a kind of filentagreement, as if
io cor.ceal it from vlie Stockholders; who
ertainly chose them for no such intenti
ons. Here I will presume to give MefTrs.
Directors a word of dire&lon < —Institu-
tions like the one in question, eiVablifhed
by law for public convenience) ought to
know no partiesnoi diftindtions; but credit
alone should be their nilometerof adtior, -
and where that is unquestionable, to be
prohibited; tne advantages ol a com
mercial Bank from other motives, is a
mcft flagrant abuse of power, and as
contrary to the duty of the dii-e&ors as
to 1 he intereftor the inffitution.
This improper connection I object to
on another ground. It fnrnifhes to the
enemies of the institution juii cause of
clamour, the very appearance of which
or .'}.t to be Carefully avoided in {■ e icntry,
where every one think, speak, and write,
as they find accaSon. Beside so; the mea
lure we receive no adequate advantage':
■here are men enough of capacity both for
Congress and directors, and pray let them
be separate. A bye-iaw of the Corpora-
Upp would be fufificient to point out and
e-'ic.u-ji; ineligible persons, which I think
ought to include State L'gi.latc: s also.
Neveir.bev 3. SOLO N-FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
Amjfndm An-- -S. Many letters here,
announce that the emigrants are in a tlif-
th&t rieyare treated witli
peculiar contempt by theprullian-. They
are raid, like wife, to iiave loft the good will
of the inhabitants of every,place through
which they pass, by their prolligacy and dl
conduct. Those who poli'efs money, as the
princes and their i'uite, it is complained,
iaviih it on a multitude of valets, girls, and
„norfe.>, and On nothing which is.ncceuary
10 / thcfervice of the war.
Ha que, Aug. 31. M. la F ayette has writ
tea to the Prmcefs of Orange to request
that flie would use her iniluence with the
governor of BruiTsls, in order that he may
be restored to liberty. As he was taken
by the Aliftrians when he was' not in arms
he claims the right of nations, which he
considers as having been violated towards
him, but we are not yet acquainted witli
his rcprefentations.
The mini'ter of France, though nolong
er acknowledged by the States General,
remains 'till at the Hague, waiting for fur
ther orders from the proviiionary council.
Dublin, Sept. 8. By a letter received ye
sterday from Abbeville, from a gentlemar
of chara£ter and fortune, by his kinfmar
here, a person of veracity and diftinftion.
we learn, that on the firft and second 01
this month a column of one hundred thou
sand national troops, with several trains ol
artillery, had pafl'ed the neighborhood o:
that town, on its way to the frontiers fron
the south-west departments of France ;
and that two other columns, equal in num
to this one. from the centre and eafteri
departmenss of the south, were 011 theii
march in parallel lines; these enormou;
armies'the writer adds, are inlpired witl
the fame enthuiiaftic design to destroy thf
invading armies., or perilh in the attempt
Such is the quarter from which this intel
ligence comes-, that we cannot doubt of ir
authenticity.
London, Sept. 6. The Duke of Brunf
wick's army is much ftraitned for provi
lions. This is the natural consequence o
bringing such an immense body of troop:
to bear upon one point.
A very serious misunderstanding has ari
sen between the Duke of Brunfwick anc
the emigrant princes. The latter are con
stantly urging the combined powers t<
commence "the attack, and proceed with al
poflible expedition to Paris- But the Pruf
iian generals are aware, that though the;
anight probably penetrate France as far a:
the capital, that there they must be inevi
tably repulsed, while every regiment un
der their command would be cut to piece:
in the retreat.
General Dillon's troops are confiderablj
reinforced by recruits from the Imperia
armies. Soldiers begin to think themfelve:
something more than machines; they afpin
at being men, and are enjoying all theii
natural rights. '
The new Polilh Diet is to meet in the
beginning of September.
The agent of the committee of circum
fpeftion, deputed by the municipality o.
Paris in search after M. de Septeuil, ha;
discovered, at length, all the secret regis
ters and port-folios of the civil lift, whicl
*t'ere very earefylly concealed. In the lafl
were found accounts of considerable sum:
sent to Monsieur, to M. d'Artoi-s and tc
Bouille, amounting, upon the whole, near
ly to five millions.
London, Sept. 6. It is said that what hap
pened in Paris on the 10th of Augufl ha:
much disconcerted the plan: of the com
bined powers—A party was doubtlef:
formed there by the king and his friends,
to make an infurreition in favor of the
Duke of Brunfwick':' army, as soon as thej
Ihould have reached Paris; 30.000 car
tridges and many other preparations foi
hoftiiity found in the Thuilieries, and else
where confirm the idea, but the murder
of the Swiss guards, and many leaders ol
the king's party, with the letters and do
cuments which the king had unadvifedlj
lelt in his efcrutoire, and which fell into
the hands of the Jacobins fn the plunder 01
that (lay, have io deranged all the plans
which were concerted to favor the arrival
of the Duke ot Brunfwick, that it he
comes a very different confideraticn now
how his operations (hall be conducted.
The Jacobins have made such use of the
papers, and other circumfiances they have
iound out, that it is said to have taken
great erfeft on the minds of the people,
and they are much more united in their o
pinions against the king and royal, family
than they w ere before. At a time when
the colli':, a'ity are thus disposed, the
Duke wi:! perhap.i think it not fafe to.ven
ture to penetrate into the kingdom witli
such a body of troops a-, he at tuft propo
sed ; it seem ; more likely that he will en
deavour to bring the French armies to
some decilive a£Hon ; and if he can com
pletely route thejn, and ffrike a terror in
to the French soldiery,, he may with the
chief power of his army march to Paris
and drive the democrats from the capi . 1
of that kingdom.
A new court of 'adicature is eftabliiheri
in Paris, by the .'all accounts to our mini
lity ; it coniiits . : o Gcputies irom each
;>f iu rSj d:-;vxvtfhsnls of that city, one of
i ■ higher, and one of the lower order oi
citizens ; to these are added eight judges,
- .».a tlus flien of the law. It has been re
folv-:\l to bring all the Hate prisoners from
Oi'iean.. to be tried by this tribunal, which
i; to lit immediately, and its buliucfs to be
attended to preferably to all other mat
ter .; the trial of the queen is, however,
to sake place firft ; and, as the party have
furelygot full proofs in their hands of the
queen's intrigues against the present go
vernment, no doubt can be made of their
pronouncing her guilty; it is much to be
apprehended, that she will be brought to
the block before effective measures can be
taken by any of the powers of Europe to
save her.
It is much to be feared that news will
certainly arrive of the' queen having bee
executed. The Jacobins, it is likely, will
not proceed to this extremity .against the
king, whom they aifeft to treat as a weak
perl'on, and not refponfibie for his actions.
Brujfels, Sept. 21. Intelligence has jufl
been received here, which, from the fa
vorable nature of the accounts from the
army, already published by authority, there
is every reason to believe authentic, that
the Xing of Pruflia took poffeflion of Cha
lons the day before vefterday. The bilhop
of that diocese, who is here, has received
orders to hold himfelf in readiness to set
out with his clergy, on the .24th, to repair
thither, and re-establish himfelf in his
charge.
The emigrants stationed near Thion
ville, are ail letting out for Verdun and
the environs, and are to be replaced by
9000 Auftrians, now on their way from
Landau under the command of General
Derdach. Thionville, which has not yet
been vigoroully attempted, is to undergc
a regular siege.
Lille is so blockaded,Ynat no one can en<
ter or quit it. All the large artillery ha:
been removed from Ath. to its environs,
and General Beauiieu is encamped within
half a league of that city. All the pea
sants in the environs, tender to the Auftri
aas a voluntary offer of their services.
Park, Sept. 7. At three o'clock in the
afternoon of the fatal 2d of September,
the fanguinarv mob reached the Temple,
where they were met by two of the com
missioners from the national assembly. It
was with great difficulty they could be re
strained from further acts of violence ;
they demanded the head of the queen ;
the cornmidioners therefore to prevent a
greater mifchief. found it necessary to ac
company them to the tower of the Tem
ple, one of their leaders carrying on a pole
the head of the princess de Lamballe.
The commissioners, attended by an off -
cer of the national guard, and M. Palloi,
the manager of the works round the Tem
ple, undertook to inform the king and
queen of what was transacting," and that
the people infilled on their viewing the
fpeftacle they had brought. The head 01
the unfortunate victim was displayed or
their majesties presenting themselves at a
window. The queen, and her daughter
Madame Elizabeth, according to the re
port of a violent Paris print, displayed, for
the firft time, some feniibility <; and the
king, who obeyed without any hesitation,
fiiid to one of the commissioners—Sir, you
are in the right.
When the mob went to the prison de la
Force, where the royal attendants, were
chiefly confined, the princess de Lamballe
went down upon her knees to implore a
suspension of her fate for 24 hours. This
was at firfk granted, until a second mob
more ferocious than the firft, forced her
-partment and decapitated her. The cir
cumstances which attended her death were
r uch as makes humanity fmidder, and which
decency forbids us to repeat: Previous tc
her death, the mob offered her every in
(ult. Her thighs were cut across, and her
bowels and heart torn from her, and for
two days her mangled body was dragged
through the llreets.
Paris, Sept. 22. The national assembly
mifhed its political career, giving place tc
:he national convention, which hkd thai
morning constituted itfelf into a body by
he appearance of the number as appoint
ed—a deputation of the aflembly waiting
an them to conduct them from the audi
ence chamber in the Thuilleries to Con
tention Hall, formerly the feat of the na
tional assembly. They firft proceeded to
the choice of a Prelident, which fell nem.
ron. on Mr. Petion, the mayor of Paris ;
md after some trifling corn erfation having
toofc place, a member rose up and moved
the total ABOLITION of MONARCH*
in France forever, which was-univerfaliy
;ind reiterately applauded from all parts of
the house, and immediately constituted in
to a law. The next Was the suspension oi
all judicial appointments, and that the
people jlu.uld appoint their own judges de
novo. Mr. Thomas Paine, by his inter
preter M, Goupilleau, requested the as
sembly to appoint a committee to bring up
a report on that fubjeft, as ignorqnt and
vicious people might poflibly introduce
.i'enifelves to those employments, without
precautions were taken to prevent the
The motion, however, in its pri
mitive llate, psfled.
The Convention then adjourned till ift
October.
The Duke of Brunfwick's army lay be
fore Chalons, head-quarters of General
Dumourier.
Vienna, Sept. 8. It is certain that a ge
neral Congress is to be held, either at
Coblentz, or Luuenbourg, on French af
fairs. It is said tiiat Spain, .England, Hol
land and other powers, will be invited to
fend Ambassadors to it, and that Baron de
Bretuil will appear at that meeting on the
part of the French princes. At the above
Congress it is thought that the form of go
vernment for the provinces which may be
taken will be fettled, and if affairs go
profperoufiy, a negociation will be fiegun
between the United Powers and the French
princes, with the principal cities and de.
partmeiits of France ; but as all this mult
depend upon the events of the war, we
cannot forefee how far they may be
brought to maturity.
In the mean time it seems intended to
reinforce the forces acting againfl France
with 20,c00 men; that number,,-at lead,
are to be kept ready to march, in cafe they
are. wanted; and a like number of the
Prussians are also ordered to be in readi
ness.
It is said that the empress of Ruflia, on
account of the dillance and great expente
that would attend marching her troops in
to France, wifiies in lieu of the 30,000
men (he is by treaty to furnilh, to pay her
quota in money.
Amjferdam, Sept. 18. The French mini
ster at the Hague has entered into an a
greement with some rich Dutch contract
ors, who have engaged to supply the
French armies with horses and mufl-iets by
the way of Dunkirk. This week a very
large number were sent. The quantity o{
mulkets in the republic is inconceivable—
the merchant; at Culembourg had in their
pofTeffion almost 1 j,ooo. Rotterdam fur
-11 illies also a great number. The govern
ment is not much pleased to fee these arms
sent out of the country, and above all sent
to Franca : but as they belong to private
persons, it cannot prevent them from fell
ing them. In this cafe government would
have no other«refource than that of pur
chasing them itrelf, at a higher price than
that of France, but this would be an em
fa arrafling Hep at present, on account of
the scarcity of money in the public trea
sury.
Though the republic have fully deter
mined to take no part in the war againfl
France, at least till the progress of the
French armies becomes more decisive, they
however give them every pofllble aflift
ance. The troops of the state are at the
fame time advancing towards the fron
tiers. Some of them yesterday set out for
Breda and Maeftricht. Immense maga
zines are forming in the latter, and large
quantities of ammunition are carried tip
the M«ufe to Namur and Dinant. Re
cruiting is permitted also at Bois-le-Duc,
in Dutch Brabant, where many deftrters
arrive daily, who are sent off to the French
princes.
The fate of France continues to interest,
in a very sensible manner, the generality of
tile people here. The fortune of every in
dividual appears as if depending on the is
sue the affairs of the country may have ; but
great uneasiness is entertained leaf! a total
dismemberment of the kingdom take place,
and leaf:, as every thing at prefelit gives n;
reason to conclude, it ihould be eflablifhed
into a republic. Mqlt minds are infatua
ted with the old prejudice that France
cannot be any thing but a monarchy. Thh
monarchical malady has infected the minds
of many Frenchmen, and if the national
convention decree a republican form of go
vernment, it is much to be feared that se
veral departments will desert the common
cause. Should this happen, public credit
will experience a mod violent shock, which
will be felt in other countries, but more in
Holland than any where else.
Sept. 20. The prince of Waldeck, who
loft an arm at the late unfuccefsful at
tempt on Thionv.ille, died a few days since
at Luxembourg.
London, Sept. 27. M. la Fayette is to be
conduced to the citadel of Wefel.
The French emigrants are not permit
ted to ast for themselves. They form the
rear guard of the combined army, and
garrison the places taken by it.
We underftdnd that an eminent mer
chant in the city had an express, stating.
'hat the city of Rouen had declared, thai
it Was disposed to accept the conditions of
fered by the invading despots of Germany,
in preference to continue longer expofec
to the brutal violence of the party now
prevailing; and that in confequeuce of
this, of the fear that the example might bf
followed, a body of men had set off frou
Faris to-chaftife the city of Rouen.
Letters from Madrid aflert, that since
that court lias been informed' of the e
vents of the roth of Anguft, at Paris, anc
the injurious treatment his mod Chriftiai
majefly has received, the fvftem of neutra
lity, which that government had adopted,
is entirely changed.
Orders have in conf.;qr..:nce been given
in Catalonia, that each inhabitant flialf/ur
qifh a Statement of the numliler of carria
ges, waggons, horses and mules in hi., uof
ieflion, and shall have them ready for cleli
very on the earliest notice-, Jjir. Catholic
majesty has also ordered that all the ii-.
in the country betwixt Barcelona and Fi T
gueras shall be purchased.
The amiable princess tie Lamballe was
in England about two years ago, in perfe't
fafety ; but was not able to wfthftand the
preflmg invitation of the queen of France,
who wished her to return; and aflured her
fiie was perfectly tree of danger. Who in
deed could have fufpecced the fatal catas
trophe of the 2d of September ? The queen
is inconsolable.
Extract of a private letter from ThicnviUe, Stp- ?-•
" I am now before Thionville, which
we havefummoned to surrender, and have
received an answer, which will draw upon
the inhabitants a vengeance which mult
unhappily be indiscriminate.
" iviontmedi has fallen into our hands.
The obstinacy of the defence precluded the
saving the inhabitants from pillage, which
during four hours was exercised by our
troops with an ur.lparing rigour capable of
dismaying others. The campaign wears
the appearance of tedious flaiigiifer and
multiplied lieges,
A letter from M. Luckner incloses a
note, received by him from M. Diiraou
rier, commander iii chief of the French ar
my at Grundpre, in which the letter states,
that two principal attacks were made Up
on his left and right wings on the 13th inft
in both of which the Pruflians w ere repul
sed with loss. A detachment of Prullian
light troops had entered an abbatis of
wood, from which he had sent five battal
lions to remove thein. At the time of his
writing, he expected that another attack
would be made on the fame day, if the
weather which was then very bad Ihould
permit it.
The garrison at Thionville have been
twice fuccefsful in forties, and the Pruf
lians will be obliged to commence the
liege in form, at a considerable expence of
what is most valuable to them, time.
Montmedi is blockaded. The report h'ere
is, that the king of Prullia is also blockaded
in Verdun, but this cannot be exactly true.
The French armies make it difficult for the
PrufHans to advance, and do, In some mea
sure, enciofe them on three fides; but the
distance between the. opposed bodies is fs>
great, that their fit,nation is very differen"
from what is getier; y underltood by ;
blockade. We are also. to wait the event
of the last attack upon M. Dumourier to
know whether the Pruflians remain inclo
sed or not.
The French Generals appear to have
very good intelligence of the Duke of
Brunfwick's preparations and movements.
Motif. Kellerman had heard, that this
attack would be made foo'n enough to per
mit his marching from Toul, where he was
polled on the left of the Pruflians, towards
Chalons, lor .the purpose of covering that
town, in any event of the action. As he
approached Bar-le-5. vc on this march, the
Pruflian advanced guard fell back towards
Verdun."
The eagerness of the French to in lilt for
military service encreafe?. In some villa
ges fathers have enrolled themselves with
their sons, and in others the young women
have bound themselves in, a general reso
lution, to marry none who inall not have
served ia the prefelit campaign. But arms
are still much wanted for tne volunteers.
The department of la Maine, which sup
plies eighteen thousand men, has but iix.
thousand inulkats for them. Thirty thou
sand Hand were expected to arrive in Paris
on Monday.
The Dutch mail confirms the report of
the fuccefsful sortie made by the French
from Thionville. It ays, " the believed
display not merely ftrmnefs, but thinking
themselves out of all danger of being ta
ken, they insult the besiegers, and approach
even so near, as particularly to direst their
mufquetry agair.lt the camp of the emi
grant French, which is in the centre of the
allies. Thefonofthe count d'Artois was
very near being killed by a cannon Ihot;
a person was killed by his fide. The artil
lery is played with great cfteft. The Auf
trians have chiefly exerted themselves to
lay the tov n in allies, inffcead of attacking
it by a regular liege."
A letter from a French officer in the e
inigrant camp, to his friend, an emigrant
in London, gives the following account of
the fall of the prince de Fiohenloe : "New
batteries had been erected, from which it
was intended tq bombard Thionville, by
the fide of the gate of Me tz. The befie-
law the intemion, and they played
their artillery with such effect aS complete
ly'to demolish the works. While- the
prince de was this day reconnoi
tering the direction of the lire, a cannon
shot cut in two an officer by his fide. The
prince fell by the 1 ock of the wind of the
ball, anci for three hours every art has been
tried in vain to bring him to life."
tord Aukland has communicated offi
cially to the States General u that his fo
vertign had been d of the refac
tion which then - .1 rnightinefies sad
.Ofi or iiiterniptir.g official com
irnjEication vvitlj M. the French
charge d'aftairs j. and that the principles
of hu royi-.i n.a'.er perfectly coincided
v.'ith those vrh.ch had di£tated the said
refoiution of ri eir hi; f, roightineiles. He
had iu cuiaeq; enee i\ c r. orders to his said
minuter to obfervc 1 it ine conduct with
rtipect to M. Ch .. vl . relident at the
court of C» ,- rat r.iil jCONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES .
Frid.y, Nov. 9.
Two petitions were presented, and read,
from invalids . Also, tne representation ot
the judges of the circuit court of North-
Carolina, on the Subject of the pennon
law. Referred to feiect committees 1
A melfajje was received from the Presi
dent, by Mr. Lear, communicatingYundfy
papers, which were read, relative to the
bou.sdiu'ie: of tho state of Virginia, and
tlit territ; of the United States, south of
the river Ohio.
Mr. l'viadilbn, of the committee 011 the
President's Speech to both Houses, report
ed an address, in avifwer thereto. Read,
a,id referred to a committee of the whole
rtoufe to morrow.
A motion was made by Mr. Murray for
the appointment of a committee to talit*
into consideration that part of the Preti
cle "t's Speech, relative to the tranfiniflion
of newspapers by the public mail. Defer
ed till to-morrow.
The remainder of this day's proceedings
being on the communications from the war
office, the galleries were flint.
Saturday, Nov. 10. <
The order of the day being called for,
the House went into a committee of the
whole 011 the draft of an answer to the
President's Speech, reported yesterday by
the committee. Having difcufled and a
mended it, the answer was agreed to by
the House. The committee then rose and
reported, aild the House having gone thro'
it. a committee of three was appointed to
wait on the President to know when he
would be reatly to receive the answer to
his address.
On motion, the report of the committee
on thepetition of the merchants of Charles
ton, was referred to the fame committee,
to bring in a bill to regulate fees in the
courts of admiralty of the United States,
and to repeal part of the law for regulat
ing seamen in the merchants' service.
A refclution waspropofed by Mr. Day
ton, " That the Secretaries of the War
an 4 Treasury departments be not.fied to
attend the House on Wednesday next, in
consequence of the enquiry that would
then take place into the causes of the de
feat of Gen. St. Clair, to giv'e such infor
mation as the , House might require.
It moved that the motion Ihonld be
laid oil tlv.- table agreeable to the practice
ot the house.
Some members urged the neceflity of ta
king it up immediately ; but others ob
jecting. Mr. Dayton contented that.it
lhouid lie on the table till Monday. Gal
leries cleared.
Monday, Nov. 12.
A statement of the receipts and expen
ditures of the revenue, for the year 1791,
was laid before the House, from the Se
cretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Dayton called up his motion for the
attendance of the Secretary of the Trea
fnry and the Secretary of War, on Wed
nesday next, to give information relative
to the defeat of Gen. St. Clair. No deci
sion was taken thereon.
A motion was made by Mr. Giles, that
the Secretary of War lay before the House
a statement of the disbursements of the
■war department. No order taken there
on.
The Speaker, preceded by the Sergeant
at-arms, and-attended by the members of
the House waited on the President with the
following answer to his address 011 the
opening of the feflion :
Sir,
THE House of Representatives, who
always feel a fatisfaflion in meeting you,
are much concerned that the occalion for
mutual felicitation afforded by the circum
stances favorable to the national prosperi
ty, fhotild be abated by a continuance of
the hostile Spirit of many of the Indian
tribes : and particularly that the re-ite
rated efforts for effecting a general pacifi
cation with them Should have issued in new
proofs of their persevering enmity, and the
barbarous Sacrifice of citizens, who, as the
messengers of peace, were diiiinguifhing
themselves by their zeal f orthe public ser
vice.
In our deliberations on this important
department of our affairs, we fliall be dis
posed to pursue every measure that may be
dictated by the fincereit desire, on one hand,
of cultivating peace, and manifefting by
every practicable regulation, our benevo
lent regard for the welfare of these- mis
guided people ; and by the duty we feel,
on the other, to provide effectually for the
fafety and protection of our felloW-citi-
While with regret we learn that fymp
tomsof opposition to the law imposing du
ties on Spirits rliftilled within the United
States have manifested themselves, we re
fleet with consolation that they-are confined
to a fruall portion of our feljow-qitizens
It is not more essential to the preserva
tion of ,tri;e liberty that a goverilmer:
flionld be always ready to liSten to the re
preu ttation of its' conftituer.cs, and to ac -
commodate its measures to the fen time at
and \\-i Ties of every part of thefti, as far as
will conliit with rhe good of the whole,
than it is that the juli authority of the laws
•hould be ftedfafti.
Under this imprejlion, every department
of the government and all good citizens
uuri. approve vi' j.i you ha re taker.,
an.l the ourpofe you have formed to exe
cute tl; part at" your trust. with farn-.nefs
and energy ; and he allured, fir, of every
corillitutional aid and co-operation which
may become requiiite on our part. And
we hope that while the progress of 'con
tentment under the law m question is as
obvious, as it is rational, no particular part
of the community may be permitted to
withdraw from the general burthens of the
country by a conduct as, irreconciieable to
aational justice as it is inconliftent with
mblic decency.
The productive state of the public revfe
:iu'e, and the confirmation of the credit of
:he United States abroad, evinced by the
.oans at Antwerp and Amlterdam, are
communications the more gratifying, as
:hey enforce the obligation to enter on
") ltematic and effectual arrangements for
JHcftarging the public debt as fait as the
nditions of it will permit ; and we take
uleafure in the opportunity to allure you
.if our entire concurrence in the opinion,
hat no lucafure can be more delirable
whether viewed with an eye to the urgent
.villi of the community, or the intrinlic in:-
jortante of promoting so happy a clrangt
n our lituation.
The, adoption of a constitution for the
tate of Kentucky is an event, in which
,ve join in all the Satisfaction you have ex-
Drelled. It may be comidered as particu
arly intereftmg ; since, beiides the imme
diate benefits resulting from it,itis another
uifpicious demonstration of the facility
ind success with which an enlightened
people fs capable of providing, by free and
deliberate plans of government, for their
D\vn fafety and happiness.
The operation of the law eftabliftiing
he poft-oifice, as it relates to the tranf
miflion of newspapers, will merit our par
:icular enquiry and attention. The cir
culation of political intelligence through
rhefe vehicles being justly reckoned among
:he surest means of preventing the dege
neracy of a free government, as well is of
recommending every salutary public mea
sure to the confidence and co-operation of
all virtuous citizens.
The several other matters which you
have communicated and recommended,
will in their order receive the attention due
:o them. And our discussions will in all
cases, we trust, be guided by a proper re
peft for harmony and Stability in the pub
ic councils, and a deiire to conciliate more
md more the attachment of our conltitu
;nts to the conftitution,'by mea Aires ac
commodated to the true ends for which it
ivas eftabliflied.
To which address the President made the following
reply.
Gentlemen,
IT gives me pleasure to express to ycu
the fatisfaftion which your address affords
me. I feel, as I ought, the approbation
you manifelt of the measure i I have taken,
and the purpose I have formed, to
tain, pursuant to the trust reposed in me by
the constitution, the respect which is due
to the laws-—and the all'urance which you,
at the fame time, give me of every consti
tutional aid and co-operation, that may
become requiiite oil your pa^t.
This is a new proof of that enlightened
Solicitude for the eftabliftiment and confir
mation of public order, which, embracing
a zealous regard for the principles of true
liberty, has guided the deliberations of the
house of representatives; a perseverance
in which can alone secure under the divine
bleiiing, the real and permanent felicity of
our common country.
G°. WASHINGTON,
—-- - .. rar i-n
PHILADELPHIA.
November 14.
A letter from Liverpool mentions, that
" in Englandthey b'egan,tO be appreheniive
of being brought into a war, in confe
•.jti.ace of the troubles in France, which
art now grown to a considerable degree of
enthuiiafin and inhuman barbarity. It
Teems hardly polfible that the patriots of
that kingdom can succeed against the pow
er; •_ i combi; 1 on c-tiler ibrn. in j, or alrea
dy formed against them. There are two
prevailing opinions in this country in re
r;i t > politics ; one, that the emperor's
ambition leads him to endeavor at the ad
dition of France to his already exteulive
dominions ; the other, that the fuccefioi
to the throne of the deposed Lew'XVl.
if. already fixed upon, and that the Puke
of "i ork is the person. Many politician:
here .declare it as their opinion, that tht
mayor of Paris, although now the idol o<
the populous, is atting a finefle, and thai
!i. p ni. iple i-. actually on the ikle -r ;.lu
icing. Whatever be the plan of they wit c
of tyrants, time mtuc 1 ion unravel : tl:
pa.:' . - are talked of to mix in the as-
T-.-.y, aid are arming ; the queen of Por
and when we intermeddle, all Europe may
reafb: ably be fuppofe4 60 be Mad."
On the 6th ijift. itj the Senate of New
i or';, j l .Jr. joiies, one of the members
ij; «ie a motion,ycr tieprotcjl cf the minont
•J- l/ic canvafftrs, at the late elethon, tit be enterc,
vfon the minutes of that House. The motioi
.-t -"hiit time was not taken into coslidera
:ion ; hut on the day following, it wa.
moved by Mr. TillMfon, another member.
hut Mr Jones's motion fhbutd. be erafedfrom t/i<
Liirnris. OsiwStM arole, and the Prelidenl
laving put the queiliop thereon, it was ear
ned in the negative.
We hear from New. Haven, that the
ower House of assembly of Connecticut
lave palled a bill for conftitutjng a Bank in
ISew-Hai en.
It is Md that the commissioners appdint
>d to fettle the account between th- feve
•al ftatea, will mate their repjrt to the
rV-efident early in the prelent session, in or
ler that provision may be made by the le
;ii!ature for the balance due to particular
fates. MaiTachufetts and South-Carolina
ire the two slates who are expected t.o
tave the largefl balances.
By a document prefentfd to the Houft
jf Representatives on Monday last from
the treasury department, it appears, that
he total amount of public expenditures
rom the firft eftablHhment of that depart
ment to the end of the year 1791, amount
:o 3.797,436 dollars 78 cents. The total
amount of money received during the fame
n-riod, .5,771,342 dollars 43 cents, leaving
1 balance of 973,905 dollars 65 cents in the
treasury at the expiration of the year
1791.
We hear that Capt. Leech, of Frede
-1 ickfburg, is appointed keeper of the light
house at Cape-Henry ; and, that it will be
ighted about the ijth of November.
Rates cf Public Securities. Loan-office Fi
nal settlements 7 above par'. Funded 6 per
cent Stock 61-4 above par. Deferred 65
tiols. 45 c. for 100. Threeper cent 62 dol.
50 c. for ;o dol. Indents, 62 dol. 50 c. for
roo. Ditto, Militiaand Depreciation, paid
ap to January ift, 1792, 71-2 under par.
Ditto, Unfunded depreciation, principal
ind interefl, par. N. and S. Carolina, 70
dol. for Igo N. Jersey paper money, 6
t>er cent, discount. Bank Stock. Bank of
the United States, 3-4 Shares, 55 per cent,
advance. Ditto, complete {hares 43 per
tent, advance. Ditto, North-America 34
dvance. Ditto, N. York 35 per cent a
:>ove par. Maryland 10 per cent, above
;ar. Maflachufetts 20 per cent, above par.
Providence, R.I. 9 percent, above par.
.anal Shares, jOO dollars. Delaware canal,
;o dol. Turnpike, 75 dollars.
Dn Friday last, the members of the Senate
waited on the frefidsat of the United
States, at his own house, with the fol
lowingAddrefSjin answer to hisSpeechto
both House? of Congress.
To Ibe PRESIDENTof the UNITED STATES
ACCEPT, Sir, our grateful acknow
edgments for your address at the opening
-f the present session. We participate
.vith you in the fatisfaftion / arifmg from
:he continuance of the general prosperity
if" the nation, but it is not without the
110 A flnccre concern that we are informed,
:hat the reiterated efforts which have been
nadeto establish peace with the hostile In
dians, have hitherto failed to accomplilh
that defifed object; Hoping that the mea
sures frill depending may prove more fuc
tefsful than those which liave preceded
them, we shall nevertheless concur in eve
■y neceflary preparation for the alterna
te ; and Ihouldthe Indians on either fide
>f the Ohio persist in their hostilities, fide
ity to the union, as well as affection for
ltir fellow-citizens on the frontiers, will
nfure our decided co-operation in every
neafure, which flia.ll be deemed requiiite
:'or their protection and fafety.
At the fame time that we avow the ob -
igation of the government to afford its
votection to every part of the union; we
tannot refrain from expressing our regret
aui even a frnall portion of our fellow
titizens in any quarter of it should have
tombhied to oppefe the operation of the
for the collection of duties on spirits
lidiikd within the United States, a law
■epcat tdly functioned by the authority of
the nation, and at this jun£ture materially
tonneded with tlie fafety and protection of
tlioi'e who oppose it ; should the iac..m al
ready adopted, fail in fec'tiring obedience
to this law, fucli further measures as may
tie thought necessary to carry the fame, into
complete operation cannot fail to receive
the approbation of the legislature, and the
support of every patriotic mind.
It yields us particular plcafure, toleatr
that the productivoit"fs of the revenue oi
the present year, will probably supersede
tin necellity'of any additional tax for the
service of the next.
The organization of the government o
the state of Kentucky la . £ an evetit pe
culiarly interesting to apart of our fellow
citizens, and conducive to the general or
der, jffords us particular fatisfaftion.
We are happy t© learn that the high (tntc
of our credit abroad, has Ijetu e\ inced bj
rite tero. on which tii-.tew 10an!..-. ; i.tt
negocfated.
In the courft of the session, we shall pro
ceed : ■ vSUeii t ; . of ;icr: Ucti the levers
objefo v/lirbli you have been please.d to re
commend to our attention ; and keeping
in view the importance of union and {la
bility ia the public councils, we (hall labor
to render our decilions conducive to the
fafety and happinefs.of our country.
We repeat with pleasure our a*flurances
of confidence in your adminiflration, and
our ardent wifli, that your unabated zeal
for the public good, may be rewarded by
the durable prosperity of the nation and
every ingredient of personal happiness.
JOHN LANGDON, President
pro tempore of the Senate.
To which address the P/eJident was pleased to viakc
the following Reply :
I DERIVE much pleasure, Gentlemen,
i om your very fatisfa&ory address.—The
renewed alfurances of your confidence in
my adminiftrationj and the exprefiion of
wifli for my personal happii • fs, claim
md receive my particular acknowledg
ments. In my future endeavors for the
public welfare, to which my duty may call
me, I shall not cease to count upon the firm,
enlightened, and patriotic support of the
Senate.
G. WASHINGTON.
On the 6th inft. the Governor of New-
York met the legislature of that slate, and
opened the feiiion with the following
ipeech :
Gentlemen of the Senate and Affmlly,
THE present meeting being in purfu
ince of a law of the lalt feflions, authori
ng you to appoint electors of a President
and Vice-President of the United States,
[his important bulinefs will consequently
engage your immediate attention ; especi
ally as farther legislative provision will
be necefi'ary on this: fubjeft, owingr to the
eftabiifhment of a ratio of representation,
different from the one contemplated by
:hat law.
As the period for the stated annual meet
ng of the legillature will soon arrive, reco
aomjcal coniiderations will fufficiently re
:ommend the expediency of completing the
3ubl:c business previous to an adjourn
ment. '
The settlement of our contested boun
iaries, the digest of our laws, the ar
"angement of our finances, and the other
parlous salutary regulations, which since
he conclufiori of the war have occupied
he attention of the legillature, being hap
pily accomplished, your present dellbera
:ions will neceflarily" be confined to a few
Dbjedts. At this time I have therefore on
y to mention to you the neceility of pro
viding for election of members of the
Hoiife of Representatives of the United
States, agreeably to the late apportion
ment ; the conforming our miliua ellab
,'ifliiiient to the regulations recently enact
ed by Congref.. and the reVision and a
meridment of filch of our laws, as may
Tom experience have been found obfeure
ir defective.
I have directed the annual reports and
sther papers, that may be neceflary for
i'our information, to be prepared and laid
before you ; and if, in. the course of the
efiion, any thing should occur requiring le
?,iflative interpohtion, it shall be communi
:ated to you by message.
While the misfortunes which some of our
ifter states fuffer by the depredations of a
avage enemy, are greatly to be lamented,
nir unfeigned thanks are due to Divine
Providence for our exemption from so
ireat a calamity. In the recess an atro
.lous murder of a chief of one of the Indi
m nations, residing within our jurifdiflion,
:hreatened in some degree an interruption
if that harmony which has hitherto so hap
pily prevailed ; but from the papers which
tvill be communicated to you, you will
Perceive that the meafhfes adopted on this
ziccaiion, have preserved their confidence
nthejufuceof government, and prevent
ed any evil effects from that difugreeable
:ircnmftance.
GEO. CLINTON.
*»* The piece signed, An officer who was
•ihon the Indian expedition, cannot be inferred,
unless She author will authenticate it with
his name.
WANTED,
A Journeyman Book-binder,
To go to Car'iijle.—
A PERSON who is capable of performing
neat Binding and Lettering, will receive
i wagee. The particulars to be alcertaincd by
LI VVIS WEISS, Hfquire, Arch-ftrect, icq, Phi
adelphia. Nov. 13. 4c, law
CHARLES BITTERS,
No- 120, South Market, jtear Fourth-Jlrett,
Has received from New-\ork, and ma
nufafhired by Lot Merhel,
A large- and general aflortinent cf
Muffs and' Tippets, Trimmings
and lldeinfs,
O O '
Great Coats, Caps, Mitts and Gloves lined
with Fur, \\ hic-h he will, fell,
Who'efale and Retail,
at the lowest prices.
Xov. 14.. ■' aa-vy tfFrom the (Boflon) Independent Chronicle■
The CRISIS,—No. V.
LATE public tion from Virginia,
signed HENRY BANKS, con
tains the following important para
graphs : viz.
" Previous to the aflumption of the
{late debts,many of the members who were
heretofore of indigent circumstances have
evidently, without the intervention of any
obvious or juftifinble event, taken their
stand among the men of wealth and pecu
niary intrigue. After the firft fai ure in
the House of Representatives, a species
of f,jecuiating bribery and indiredt cor
ruption was set on foot, fuel) as never
offered in any other country, and for
which every member of t-ither house, who
was directly orindire&ly concerned, ought
to be eternally stigmatized.
" Inllruinents of writing were prepa
red by certain favorite brokers in New
York, which invited a member to sub
scribe to the amount of ico,ooo dollars,
on the very favorable terms that the sub
scribing member might be interested in
the issue of that sum ; the b'oker would
advance all which was necessary to pur
chase it, without fee »r reward ; the mem
ber to take the rifkof loss, & to be entitled
to all the gain.
He further adds. " some of the members
Jirff opposed the assumption, and then advoca•
ted it, as if by divine inpiration."
The foregoing ftateiner.t is published
by a mai> of information, and with that
degree of cor fic'.<nee,as to pledge its au
thenticity with the signature of his name.
Affertiotis so politive, it is not probable
would be made, unless the writer was
fully assured of the truth of them. A
man of his information & chara&er, would
not hazard his reputation upon vague re
ports ; which leads the public to suppose
they r.re facts known to the author and
which can be fubllantiaied by evidence,
the most deeifive and unequivocal.
Whether the charges exhibited by Mr.
Banks are facts or not, are left to him to
prove. However, it may be thus far af
l'erted with the utmost propriety, that the
funding fyltem (if we may judge from
circumflartees) carries every appearance of
z deep laid scheme of fpecul.tion, calcu
lated for the sole emolument of artful de
signing, intriguing individuals. If we
examine the persons, who have in conse
quence thereof, amassed immense fortunes,
we shall find for the most part, they are the
particular intimates and associates of mem
bers of Congress : Men whom we have
every reason to suppose were in the habits
of ( frank) correspondence with them on
th.B subject. This connexion must have
been so corfulcnUcl and the communicati
on r so peremptory, as to induce their friends
at this diltai.ee to hazard their own, and
in some inftance3, other perjons* property,
upon the event In short, to fpeculatc
so largely, that if success had not attended
their engagements they must have rui»ed
t-emfelves, and involved a number of in
nocent people, in the fame dillreffing
situation.
The information obtained by these
persons, must have come ftom a quarter
which could be depended on ; for amidst
the perplexity ofthis business, from whence
could such pefhive intelligence proceed, un •
less from the fountain head of knowledge ?
We are then led to conclude, that if the
agents in this plan wtre so largely bene
fited, the principals were not deficient.
In conkquence of this authentic infor
mation, the Massachusetts Bank became
the grand theatre of operation, for those
confidential friends, residing in this town.
This courtiiutior, though originally
established to facilitate commerce, and as
sist the merchant, was by an unbounded,
deftru&ive fpeulation (unknown to some
of the diretlots) rendered useless to alinoft
every man, exc- pt those who were within
the secrecy of the funding system. The
trad, become greatly embarrassed, as mcr
chants, of the firtl chara&ers, and r< fpon
fibility could not receive a temporary as
sistance in cases of the greatest emergency.
The bank was exhausted by a few specula
tors, as immense sums were emitted, for
the sole purpose of engrossing the public
funds. So great was the rage, and eager
lieis for speculation, that thousands, and
tens of thousands of dollars depended
011 the fortuitous arrival of an express •, and
the augmentation of a man's fortune reli
ed on the expectation of a tiavelling jockey,
! and the fleetnefs of the horse which con
veyed him.
The public stocks were rendered, by
the intrigue of a few persons, co;ftantly
fluctuating ; by their tubtil management,
tjjey could raise or fall them, just as it
suited their convenience and interest, By
the fineffe of particular individuals in the
bank, if they were disposed to raise the
price of the public notes, they would emit
a large quantity of money, which would
give them a -apid appreciation. Dur'ng
this period, those persons who werepulling
the wires behind the curtain > would employ
some obsequious runner, to dijpofe of their
notes. After they had acted this part of
the farce, for a short time, they would
then turn about, & employ this fame oblig
ing runner, to purchase in—At this flage
of the business, the Hank was again the
grand machine to effedl their plans. In
stead of large difcounts> as in the former
cafe, almost every m in's no.e would be
cbeclted, which would immediately operate
to their advantage, as the scarcity of Cash,
would cause a sudden depreciation, by
throwing a large amount of stocks into
the market for sale. Thus by alternately
raifmg and falling the price of the notes, a
few individuals (who are personally
known) have acquired their immense for
tunes. Such are t e modern patriots, who
are puffed up in certain papers, as the
great supporters of the honour, dignity
and independence of America.
When we fee the many pompous ac
counts exhibited in particular papers, of
the vast benefits resulting to the States by
the meafuresof Congress, we are naturally
led to enquire what they are ? It is true
the sessions have been prolonged, and
lengthy declamations on particular fubjeSs,
have been published as fpteches of mem
bers ; but the queftioii with those who pay
the reckoning is how have the sessions ter
minated? By their debates,a stranger would
suppose that every essential business was
acc»mplifhed, and that some of the mem
bers were assembled for their private
amuf-ment, and diversion ; while our trade
lies bleeding at every pore, and while the
situation of the Weft Indies gave us every
advantage to efFect our own purposes ;
instead of attending to these important
points, the fubjedl of refidenct was altercat
ed with as much warmth and solicitude,
as if the house at New York in which
Congress fat, was totally unreofed, and that
it was impossible for them to take flielter
from an impending storm in any other
place than on the banks of the Patow
mac.
A federal city is now in contemplation
and the citizens of these States are daily
amused with the superb palaces to be
eie£ted, the elegant arrangement of the
streets ; and above all the high gratificati
on of having their money spent, to real a
citv altogether without the jurisdiction of j
those who are at the expence of it. Why
luch a body of people, as will reside with
in this ten miles diflrict, should be de
tached from the whole Union to be go
verned by different law 3 than the 1 cfl of
the citizens, is a quellion which camiot be
easily answered in a free government.
An Indian warisalfo among our griev
ances. This war, detached from the
jtiflnefs of its principles, mull be consider
ed as the moll impolitic measure that can
be adopted : Nothing but the mod abso
lute necessity, could juftify us at t! is ear
ly period, to enter into any offenfive war
whatever.
The remarks made in the last number
refpe&ing the clerks in the loan office,
have been considered by some as reflecting
on the officer of that department. But
they arc not intended as such ; as the au
thor is convinced of the integrity, and as
siduity of that gentleman. The idea sug
gested was that the provision of Congress
was not so favorable to the merchant as to
the speculator, as it exposed the former to
unreasonable delays, by a deficiency of
clerks, while the latter could expedite
his business by a fufficiency of them.
The author may be mistaken in the
observations made in this, and the pre
ceding numbers ; if he is, he shall readily
acknowledge it, whenever arguments are
offered to prove the fallacy of his reason
ing.
A Republican.
Three har.dfpme Editions of the Laws
of tie United States for sale at this office
(No. 209 Marketflreet) in folio and oda
■vo, either full nr half bound— N.B. The
Laws of the lajl Session, in ofJavo only, may
be had(cpam'.c, price three eighths of a dollar,
K 1 D, and Co,
PERFUMERS, &c.
Have ju ft imported in the FIG U U,,inJ other
late arr./ils from Europe, and now open fur
Sale, at their store, No. 222, in Market above
S»xt h-ltreet,
A general afjortment of the following
GOODS, viz.
LADIES' and Gentiemens' japaned dreffin
cases complete, of all forts
uc. tlemens* {having cases, powder bags, boxes
and powder pulls of all forts
Tortoifhell,-ivory, and horn combes, of all kind?
Tofcth orufhes, dragon roots and tooth powder
All kinds of the best cloaths brushes
Ladies' tortoiihell Aiders for the hair
Best Windsor soap, all kinds of vvafli balls
Powder masks and court-plaifter
Silk purses an<l gloves tops
All kinds of raifors> warranted
Pocket, pen, and (porting knives
Sciflors of all ki. ds
Pinchiug, curling and spring irons
A general alTortmeut of pocket-books, ladies
thread-cases and etwes
Reft English, Chtfh.re, and Gloucester cheeses
Wax, wax candles, and fealingwax
Mellage cards of all kinds
All kinds of hair powder
Enjjlifh, French, and other pomatums |
Tamboured, Caftimjer and muflinet waistcoat j
patterns. j
An elegant affortnent of
Ready made Milinary,
Consisting of tull dress, Caps, Hafs, and Bonnets.
Fine chip hats
Black ani coloured beaver hats, best quality
An aflortment of the most fashionable ribbons
And beads for trimmings and other ornaments.
Bat e likctoije received a f'cjb Jupply of
MILK of ROSES.
They beg leave to inform the ladies, that they
continue, to make all kinds of ornamental fatfe
hair upon an entire rew method, and of fq light
ahd easy a conftruftion, that they look better than
when a lady is drefied by the most expert hair
JreiTer.
An afTortment of elegant cut Steel Watch
Chains, Seak, Watch Keys, &c. wjt.h a variety of
other goods, too tedious to enumerate.
November 10. 4W. 2aw.
Terres a Vendre
Vans un pa'is bien peup/e',—
S AVOIR, foixante cinq mille, trois cens, foix
ante et quatorze Acres, en une feisle piece,
dans le cafiton le mieux peuple de la Caroline Me
ridiosale, leDiftii£tde Ninety-Six. Ces terres
font fituees daris une contree agreable, et falubre,
ou les fievrcs font inconnuesj a environ vingt lieues
de Colombie, la Capitale, et contigues ala ville
de Cambridge, ou il y a College, et Cour fuperi
eure. A environ dcuze lieues, iI y a bonne navi
gation jet il eft ties probable, que dans quelque
.ems on rendra navigable le Grand Saiude, riviere
qui arrofe les terres memes. Elles font agreable
ment diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons charman
propres a la culture du tabac, du coton, du vnais
et du petit grain jet ciont une proportion coßfidfer*
able fe pent aifement convertir en prairies fertiles
il n'eft peut-etre gueres possible de rencontrer une
lareiile piece de terre a vendre dans aucun autre
les Etats Unis jet pour les conditions de i'achat
>n les rendra tres commodes.
S*i if former a I'imprimerie de la Gazette Na
ionale. Sept. 5.
LANDS for SALE,
TN a well feitied Country. SIXTY-FIVE
i THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in one
oody, in the most populous part of the state ol
South-Carolina, in the diitrift of Ninety-fix—lt
is situated in 2 fine healthy ciimat",fiee from fever
Sc ague,about sixty miles from Columbia, the feat
jf government. The land is contiguous to the
town of Cambridge, where are a for the
inftru<ftion of youth, and a superior law court. It
is at present within about thirty-five miles of good
navigation, wiih a probability of having the river,
called the Great Saluca, that flows along one fide
>f the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
ully diverfifivd into swells and vales, and is per
fectly well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and small grain } a great
proportion of it may be made meadow ground.
There is not, perhaps, such a body of land, focir
cumftanced, for sale in any other of the U ; States.
The terms of .payment will be made convenient to
the purchafcr or purchafejs. Apply to the Printer.
August 29, iawtf
Manufactured and for Sale,
At No. 11, Nsrth Sixth-Jlrect,
Fafliionable Round Top and Flat
BUTTONS,
Warranted superior to any imported of
equal price.
Country Store-keepers supplied either in
finall or large quantities, By
S. PO S T & Co.
N.B. Conkfhel Buttons, Buckles, &c. '
Oct. 17. sawtP
NOTICE.
This is to so warn all masters of vefTels and j
others, at their peril, not to take a certain
mulatto Boy, named Lewis ftoget, formerly of
Cayenne, ouc of this city, he being lawfully bound
a::d apprenticed to me, untill j6th Nov. 1793 ;
as I have reason to fufpeft he is endeavouring to
leave this city. JAMES ROBERTSON*
New-York; o&ober9. tf
New-Tori and Philadelphia
STAGES,
AND
Bordenton, Burlington, and Trenton or
Lamberton
PACKETS.
THE proprietors of the New-York and Phi
ladelphia Land and Water Stages, beg leave
ro mention, that for the better accommodation of
:he paflengers, they have removed their different
packet boats from their former stand, a" the
Crooked Billet Wharf, to the wharf or dock im
mediately next below Arch-lheet ; from whence
a convenient packet starts for New-York,
as ulua!, on every Sunday, Tuesday, Weonefday
and Thursday, and returns on every Tuefdav,
Thutfday, Friday and Saturday. The paflage to
be made either by the way of Bordenton or Bur
lington } eaah place taken alternately.
for paflengers from Philadelphia to Newj
ods Van Emburgh and M'Kean,
David Williamfon,
Proprietors of tbe line of New York and Philadel
phia Jlages, by the rout oj Bordenton,
Jacob Myers,
/\mos Hutchin,
Nicholas Schenck,
I Proprietors of the /me of New Tork and PhiladeU
1 pbia ftagesi by the rout of Burlington.
Bordenton, Odt* i.
For freight or paflage apply to the matters oa
board, or to
M'Keafl and Van Emburgh;
Who have tor sale at tlieir store on laid wharf,
immediately next below Arch-ftieet,
C>!e Madeira, ~j Muscovado, "J
Teneriffe, and tWiNEs. Loaf, and NSugars
Mountain j Lump J
Jamaica Spirits, Molafles,
Antigua, 1 Coffee,
Monlferat & J-Rum. Chocolate,
Newbury J Bohea Tea,
Rochelle Kraniy Burlington Pork,
in pipes, cases and Hams,
demijohns, Flour,
Cin in pipes and cases, Bar Iron, Sec. &e. &c.
Orders for Grain, Staves, Bills of Scantling, or
other Lumber, punctually attended to.
freight or palTage to Lamberton or
Trenton, apply at said wharf to Thomas Aih
moore, Wiliiam Douglals, John Afhmoore or
Alexander Pouglafs, (Masters on board) or as
above, to M'Kean & Van Emburgh.
Philadelphia, October 6, 1792.
New-yerfcy Confiscated Lands.
WHEREAS the firft purchalcr did nfr'
comply with the conditions of sale
.this is to give notice i/iat the following tradi ot
land, containing fifty acres and thirty nine hun
dredths, ftridt meal ore situated in Hardifton town
flii.>, near the road that leads from Elijah Col
lards, decealed, to PauJinikill, lace the property
ot Oliver De Lancey, wil. be fold at public vendue.
The sale to begin on Wednesday the 28th day
ot November next, at 2 o*tlock in the afternoon
at SuiTex courthouse ; and besides cafn, the fol
lowing slate obligations will be received in pay
ment, to wit, —Officers and soldiers notes given
ior the depreciation of their pay— notes given to
the militia of this Hate for the arrearages of their
pay—certificates liquidated by Silas Conaidt—and
notes given by the Treasurer of this state to per
lons who had demands against the confifcated
Htates of New-Jcrfey.
JOSEPH GASTON,
Agent for SufiTex county,
C&. 24, 1792. 4w.iaw.
— — |
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. Oswali>,
(Pr ice Eleven Pence)
five letters,
addrefled to the
Yeomanry of the United States,,
CONiAINING some Oblervations on th
Scheme ot Wm. Duerand Mr Secreta
ry Hamilton,p establish National Manufaflures
fcv a FARMt'.I. This pamphlet, so highly in
teresting at this period, mav be had at the follow
ing place? .• ar Mr. Ol\vald ; s Printing-Office, No
156, Markei-ftreet j at Mo. 209; Market-flreet;
at Mr. Doom's, 41, South Second-street; at
Mr. Crukftanks, 91, Market-llreet; at Mr,
Altken's, Market-llreet; snd at Mr. Young's
S. W. corner of Chefnut and Second-streets.
21.
FIVE DOLLARS REWARD.
UN AWAY from the fubferiber in Phila
del phi a the I sth of September a negro man,
named CUFF. He is about 23 years of age,
<; Jeer 6 inches high, has a remarkable walk,
& had on,a red Sc yellow ftripedbutton jacket. Rus
sia lheeting fiiirt and trowfers of the fame /luff a
pair of shoes and an old round hat Whoevei will
take up the said negro—and bring him to Mr,
Andrew Market street. or fecute him so
th at I get him, shall have the above reward and
ail reasonable expences.
HERMAN BROOCK.
31. law
ig-ar-jc-r.mwirni■inwwiimiiuiMM'^xnpuii^
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAINE
AT THEIR OFFICE NO. 209, HIGH-STREET
NEAR FIFTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA/