Vol. I.
fOur readers will recolleß to have (ten in
Number 7, and. sortie succeeding papers oj
ike National Gazette, a tranflali
cn from a French manujcript entitled, " a
political enquiry init) the best means of im
proving the commerce of the United States.'
It is the work of an intelligent Frenc)
Gentleman residing at New-London ; whi
has recently tranfmitled us fame furtha
ideas on the famefuljeft a tranjlation 0)
which the Editor flatUrS himfelf will h,
equaMy acceptable to the generality of ou\
readers with tkoje before p-üblijhed.~\
Continuation of the Memotial upon the
bsft means of improving the Cosh
merce and Manufa&ures of th 4 Unit
ed States.
THOSE who have read the hiftor)
of the civilized world with attention
must have obfervedthe multitude ofdif
Acuities which all infant states have
been obliged to encounter, and the of
forts which government and natipna
industry have been confhrair.ed to make
in order to surmount the obstacles whicl
were opposed to the growth so the use
ful arts and manufa&ures.—~At certair
periods we shall find that a fcareity ol
artists and materials for the support o:
manufactures retarded the progress o:
the belt concerted undertakings. Ai
other times we shall fee, that inadequate
means or a setting out upon erroneou:
principles operated against all the ef
forts of industry. Again we shall dif
qovcr, that the dearneis ofprovifions anc
high wages were powerful obstacles tt
success. The competition of foreigr
manufactures and the low price of im
ported commodities have also contri
buted not a little, at different periods, tc
prevent nations from fuppiying them
selves with their own fabrics. The ef
forts of the moll persevering artists anc
nioft determined undertakers and em
ployers have always come short of the
desired purpose without being affiftec
by the genius and influence of legiflati
on, which again in its turn stood in equa
need of the talents of the rpan of art anc
invention.
The establishing of national manufac
tures has ever appeared an arduous ob
jc£t to the great men of all enlightenec
ages, because they are naturally attend
ed with an increase of subsistence foi
the human species, and afford the mean:
of living to a vast number of individu
als, whose labours under proper direc
tion give a spring to commerce and en
rich their country.
It feemsneceffary that the wisdom o
sovereigns and the industry of individu
als should concur in order to rendei
prosperous, all considerable establish
ments of this nature ; and in proportior
as difficulties increased, in this refpett
the more have all wife legislatures anc
sovereigns exert :d themselves to over
come them, and thus enjoyed the refuli
ofgloryand emolument. To obtain the
end in view, circumstances of neceftit)
have always naturally induced, or ra
ther compelled them to fall upon the
mod proper means to obviate the impe
diments thrown in their way ; but al
the fame time, itmuft be confeffed, thai
a great length 01 time, ancl men of the
firfl rate abilities have been equally pe
ceffary to accomplish fuchundertakings,
2 hefe persons have been universally
honoured with the meritorious title oi
Fathers of their people and the benefac
tors of mankind : but it was only by the
greatest exertions, resolution, andinvin
cible perfeverancethat they attracted the
smiles of fortune upon their endeavours,
Legislative skill, knowledge of laws,
found commercial regulations, patriotic
flffociations, political and financial abil
ities, with an accurate idea of govern,
pient in all its parts, were alike neces
sary to overcome obstacles and exempt
their fubjefts from the tribute they paid
to their neighbours, in the purchase of
articles necessary for the ufesof life.
Whije wc admire and venerate the
By PHIL IP FR ENEAU.
THURSDAY, January 12, 1792.
wisdom and prudent conduit of fuel:
governments, let us consider them as
abjedts worthy of our imitation,
Let us, for a moment, turn our eitten
ion to their mode of carrying th?ij
plans into execution, and the fuccefsfui
means which tliey essayed in eftablifb
nsthole manufactures of which we fh^l
0~.
preiently speak.
We will, in the firftplace, take a view
of Ireland!, after the ravages of the civi
wars in that country. For some tiny
nothing was to be seen in that unfortu
nate illand but the vestiges of fire ai}<
sword; their farms neglected, commere'
annihilated, an exhausted treasury, ant
no other resource for re-eftablifhini
their affairs but the industry of a fma-1
number of inhabitants and the wi(4op
of tlie government.
In this situation, necessity, the mothe
of arts, began to put the inventive povy
ers of people in action, and in a
time produced wonders.. The inceffan
demands for athoufand things,
to mankind in a state of society, excit
edalpiritof emulation throughout tlfl
kingdom, which in a short. time exhi
bited to Europe at larg« an example ■»
industry unknown. In ttr
times of which I stin speaking-, the in
terruption of natipnaf bommeree andth
ex-haufted resources of government pre
vented any afliftance from that quarte
towards the re-eflablifhment of affair
in Ireland. One method only was lef
to recover arts, manufa&uies and com
merce from oblivion ; a fen fib le mai
prppofed patriotic ajjoaations. His ide
was attendee! to, and generally appro*
ed. In a short time sprung up agricu
tural societies, commercial focietios, so
c:iotiei; for encouraging the arU, <Sce. ($-f
These were protected by the govern
ment, and under such influence agricul
ure and manufactures were perfe£tl"
e-eftablifhed, and rendered more flou
rifiling ever.
The Kings of France, always atten
:ive to whatever concerned the publi:
ijood of their nation, did not fail to imi
:ate the conduct of Ireland. An enter
arising spirit soon became prevalen
hro' the Kingdom, although it must bi
ronfeffed, the inhabitants of Brittany
were the firft to tread in the footfleps o
he patriotic Irish, <wd inflitute thof
iffociatiotis of Rieri which had ajreadi
proved so advantageous to their rivals it
jther countries, Lewis the XV. b;
i Brief dated March 20th, *757, grantee
» charter to a society in Brittany, ir
which he confirmed the rules an 4 law:
which had been drawn up for the gov
jrnment thereof. As these regulation:
ire extremely intcrefting to the Unitec
States, i»t the present period, when fimi
societies are establishing amonj
hemfelves, we will give an abridgemen:
3f their articles and bye-laws, in a? few
words as possible,
[To be continued.]
The following, [from the Federal Gazette ~
is injerted by requejl.
IN the report of the Secretary of the
Treasury on manufactures, it is laid
down as tfie ur.queftionable meaning oi
the constitution of the United States,
thatCongrefs have power to provide, b\
the application of money, tor any ob
jest, that ponccrns the General Welfare,
terms which he fays are susceptible nei
ther °f fpecification nor of
that every object concerns the General
Welfare which in its operation extends,
in fa ft or by possibility throughout the
union—-that it is left to the discretion of
the national legislature to pronounce
upon the objects which concern the
General Welfare—that there seems to be
no doubt that whatever concerns learn
ing, agriculture, manufactures and com
merce are within the sphere of the na
tional councils.
Then queryrr,
li there any object of confcquence for
which money is not neeeflfory or any
pbjeEt at all wht<fi money may
not be applied to, and so be brought
under the power of Congress ?
Is there any objc£t which in its ope
>;:tio,n may not by ppjfilrility extend
through the union ?
Cannot such adifcretion of the naticr.3!
legifiature pronounce all ckjctfs
ever tp eoAccrn the general welfare ?
Can any usurpation of power bt
judged unccraflitutional by thejudicia
authority if the legislature can Con
ftitutionally do whatever, in their dif
ctetion concerns the general actfari ?
Does not what concerns the genera
itttereff of learning, agriculture, vtaiufac
tures and commerce embrace by far ths
greatest part the sphere of legislation ?
May not the fame discretion that car
pronounce.thefc to concern the genera,
welfare, pronounce the fame as to ;
provision for the support of the poor
for the maintenance of an eccleliaftica
eflablifhment, and for every thing el{t
the legislature pleases ?
Does not this da&rine in the RcpOr
knock down every boundary wort!
contending for between the genera
government and tjie state governments
and give an indefinite fupremapy to th<
general government ?
May not an equal latitude of con
ftru&ion knock down all the bounds
ries between the several department
of the general government, and mak<
over such supremacy to the executive o:
take it Wholly to the legislature or ei
the. house thereof ?
vVas not the general government a
dopted, and ha? it riot been by all th>
•world understood as limited to the
ticular powers fpecifying and definini
the general terms, common dfence ant
general welfare-, and not as clothed b;
these terms with power susceptible nei
ther of fpecification nor of definition ?
If the exposition in the report fhoult
prevail, will not the people of Americ
be under a government which is no
the choice of the people but the choice o
those who adminifterthe government ?
Is there not a degree of mifconftruc
tion and aiTumption of power, that ma;
raise the awful question, whether i
does not'touch the fundamental compaE
of government, andia it not wife tqkee]
at a distance from that danger ?
authentic,
(Never before printed.)
COPIES OF the LAWS
Faffed in the
TERRITORY of the UNITED STATES,
North-weft of the River Ohio,
By the Governor end Justices thereof .
Agreeably so the Ordinance of Congress of July
j 3, \-jb-, and made out from the Original Re
cords in the Office of the Secretary for the fak
Territory.
-IV.
A LAW for fixing the Terms qf (he Ge
neral Court of the Territory.
THE general court for she territory
of the United States north weft ol
the river Ohio shall hold pleas civil anc
criminal at four certain periods or term:
in cach and every year in such counties,
as the judges {hall from time to time
deem moll conducive to the general
good, they giving timely notice of the
place of their setting. That is tp fay
upon the firft Monday of February.
May, O&ober and December—Provi
ded however that but one term be holden
in any one county in 3 ypar ; and that
ill proceftes, civil and criminal, shall be
returnable to said court wheresoever
:hey may be, in said territory : and as
circumstances rrwy so intervene as to
prevent a fellions of the court at the
time and place fixed upon, it shall and
may be lawful for the court to ad
journ from time totime. by writ directed
Numb. 22.
;o the fherifF of the county ; and tq
:ontinue all process accordingly ; and
n cafe neither of the judges shall attend
it th- tinrie and place aforefaid, and no
writ be received by the fheriff it fliall
De his duty to adjourn the court from
lay to day during the'firfl fix days of
lie terrti. and then to the next term ;
o which procelfes shall be continued
js afoi'efaid': Prcfvided however that all
ffues in fa6t shall be tried'in the coun
ty where the catifc of action shall have
?rifen. •
V.
4 LAW rrjpecting Oaths of Office. Pap
Jed September, 2d. 1788.
VERY person appointed to anyci-t
'vil office in the.territory, and com
mffiqned by the Gov&rnor, lliall previ
iufly to his entering upon the exercise
jf his pffice, take the following oath,
!\Z.
I, A B being apppointed to
he office of — do 'solemnly swear
hat I will \yell and truly exercise the
luties of my said office, according to the
jest of my Ikill and understanding with
>ut fraud or partiality. So help me
Uod.
Any person appqinted as aforefaid,
:onfcientioufly fcfupulpus of taking an
)ath shall make the following affirmati
on previously to entering upon the du
ies ofhisoffice, viz,
I, A -B being appointed to the
office of— do solemnly, sincerely,
truly declare and affirm, that I will
/veil and truly execute the duties of my
aid office according tq the best of my
liill and understanding without fraud
ir partiality'; and this I dcclare and af
irrn upon the pains and penalties of per-r
ury.
And that all oaths of office or dscla
•ation and affirmation prescribed as
iforefsid shall be taken before the go
/ernour. or such person or perfbns as
liall by him be appointed and commif
roned for that purpose, and certified
rpon the. commission of.the person tak
ng the fame. And in cafe.of the absence
>f the governourthe said oath or declar
ttion and-affirmation may be-taken
"ore and certified by either of the judg
es of the territory.
VI.
4 LAW .reflecting Crimes and punijli
ments. Pajfed September, 6th. 1788.
' TREASON.
If any person belonging to, residing
In, or prptectedby the Laws of this terri
:ory shall levy war against the United
States or against this territory; or shall
knowingly and wilfully aid or affiftany
:itcmi(!s at war against the United State?
ar this territory, by joining t;lie armies,
sr fleets of fuph enemies, or byeolifting,
persuading or procuring others to join
Paid fleets or armies,' or by furnifliing
'uch enemies with arms, qr ammunition,
or prpvifions, or any other articles for
their aid qr comfort, or by carrying on a
treasonable and treacherous correfpon
4ence with them, or fhallform or beany
way concerned in forming any combina
tion, plot or conspiracy for betraying
the United States or this territory into
the hands or power of any foreign er>e
my, or shall give or attempt tq give or
fen 4 any intelligence tpanyfuch enemy,
for purpose, the person or persons
fo, offendirjg shall -be deemed guilty of
treason, and upon conviction thereof
fuffer the pains of degth, and shall
moreover forfeit all his, her or their ef-
real and perfpqal tq this territory.
MURDER.
If any person or persons, shall with
malice aforethought, kill or flay another
person, he, she or they so offending,
ihall be deemed guilty of murder, and
upon conviction thereof shall fuffer the
pains ps death.JUT 11 i? N X I C .
JRN ofthe whole Number of Ps r sons i/jithin the fever al, Di ft rift
of the United States, according- to " An Afl providing for thi
Znumeration of the Inhabitants of the United States
V E R M O N T.
COUNTIES.
■Iddifon , • • . , *7 8 4 l 6 29 6 4 3» 6 44S
Bennington, . . . . 3 n 4 3 al J 2t) 16 t22^
C/iiitenderiy , Z2 5 6 1 7 6 ' 3 2 5 8 a 3 ; 73°'
Orange, 287 4 2768 4846 10 5*S
Rutland, 39 86 4°9 2 7 45 6 3 1 . l ss°£
Wind/or, 4003 4*57 7543 45 1 57 -
Windham, , 4418 4672 8 545 5_ 8 1 7^95
Total, , , . 22435 22328 40505 2 55 16 85535
NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
Rockingham, . , . 11148 J 21 97 6 2 93 9 8 43' e 9
Strafford, . . . 601 4 59'3 MS9» 63 22 2360!
Cheshire, . . ■ 700 4 7580 14103 6 9 16 28772
Hillfborough, . . . ' 81,5 c 8389 16150 177 32871
Grafton, . ■ 37 6 8 3315 6 If '347 s
Total, , . . 36086 34851 7 oifcoj 630 157 14188.5
MAIN E,
York, ~»«« 28,82!
Cumberland, . • •. • > *5,»45 c
Lincoln, 29,962
Hancock, . ..... 9>549
fVafhington, . • « • • 2 =75
Tota], 96,54 c
MASS. A C H U S E T T 8,
, . • H37' 9334 23114 1056 44875
Ejfex, . ■ - 14263 12562 30208 880 57913
Middle/ex, . . . 11040 9606 21494 597 42737
Hampshire, . . . 15119 J soi2 29009 451 59681
Plymouth, . . . 75°0 6534 14998 503 29535
Brijlol, . . r 7964 6942 16074 7 2 9 31709
Barn/table, . . , 4200! 4097 8685 372 17354
DwAM, . • < 822; 714 1696 33 3265
Nantucket, , . U93; io'6 2301 no 4620
Worcejler, . . 14615! 13679 28104 409 56807
Bcrkjhirt. , . 7366 7793 14809 323 _ 30^)1
Total, . . . 95453, 87280190582 54631 None. 378787
RHODE-ISLAND.
Newport, , . . 3 2 3* 28 42 7°47 s '-l 3 66 1430°
Providence, . . . 6154 5500 11877 778 82 24391
Washington, . . • 3696 4651 8017 1372 339 18075
Brijlol, ... 781 678 1562 92 98 32! 1
Kent, . . , 2157 2128 4149 351 63 8848
Total. . . 16019 15799 32652 3407 948 68825
CON N E : T I C U T.
Hartford, . . . 97 8 2 8840 18714 430 263; 38029
New-Haven, . . 7856 6858 15258 425 433 1 30830
New-London, . . 8224 7183 16478 729 586 33200
Fairfield, . , 9187 8398 17541 327 7971 36250
Windham, . . 744°' 6551 14406 340 28921
Litch/tld, . . 10041! 9249 18909 323 233! 38755
Middle/ex, . . 473°! 4 J 3 2 9 6 3 2 j 140, 221' 18855
Tolland, . . . 3 26 3' 3i9 2 941 47, 13106
Total, . . . 60523 54403117448! 2808, 2764.237946
N E W - Y O R K.
Richmond, . . 749, 751 1449 12 7 759 3 8 35
Kings, . . 903 700 1414 46 14321 4495
Queens, . 3554 2863 6480 808 2309! 16014
Suffolk, . . 3756 3273 7187 1126 1098' 16440
New-York city and county, . 8500 5907 15254 1101 2369 33131
Wejl-Chejler, . . 5939 5330 10958 357 1419 24003
Dutchefs, . . 10968 11062 20940 440 1856 45266
Orange, . . 4600 4340 8385 201 966 184912
Uljler, . . 70581 6791 12485 157 2906 29397
Columbia, . . 6573] 6737 12744 55 1623 27732
Albany', . . 18549. 18866 34227 170 3924 757,36
Montgomery, . . 7866 7201 13152 41 588 28848
Wajhington, . . 3615 375 2 6625 3 47, 14042
Clinton, . . 546 357 678 16 17 1614
Ontario, . . 524 192 342 6 11 1075
Total, .... 83700 78122152320' 4654 21324340120
[To be continued.)
This Day are publijhed, GARDEI lE, Dentifl,
C "F T? TVT O T*J Q D ESPECTFULLY informs the public, thst
O Iv 1 I vy 1 j iL\w ke has removed from No. S3 to No. 1217,
Iliflorical and Charaftcriftical : ne« Fourth ftrect, oppofiie the
By WILLIAM LINN, D. D. iank of the Lmttd States. DeC- '9'
One of the Mimfters of the Reformed Prct,jlan ■
Dutch Church, in the city of New-York. *few Cobics of the Report of the Secretary
Sold by T. DOBSON, R. CAMPBELL, £ >f State on Ihejubjecl of theiod and H hale-
M. CAREY. Ftfittries —may be hud at the ojice, Ao. 23c
[Price Three Quarters of a Dollar.] • High-Jlrect. '
«>i
c!
£
. ~s"*
L *'" >^
*"Ii
oi
o»
?
«5~
2 I
p I"
se
a
P*.
cr»
| ""I rJ; ,
r:'
£ ■
PHILADE L P I-I I A,
C ON G RES S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE 3.,
Monday, Januarv <),
An engrafted bill to establish the poll
office and post roads, being taken up foi
a third reading,
Mr. Murray moved for a recommitment
in order to amend the section relating tc
the conveyance of newspapers, by rcdu
cing the Postage to half a cent for <
hundred miles, and a cent for any great
er distance.
The question being taken on this me
tion, and loft, the house proceeded tc
fill up the blanks ; and agreed,—
That the post-master general be em
powered to make contracts for carr-.ig
the mail, for the term of five years ;—
That any person, who obftrufts or re
tards the mail, be fubjeft to a fine ol
100 dollars :—
That any ferryman, who refufes 01
neglects to transport the mail, be jubjefi
:o a penalty of ten dollars, for every
i;(lf hour's delay :
That the post-master general (hall
*ive twelve weeks notice in the public
japers previous to forming a contrafl
ior the conveyance of the mail : —
That the salary Of the post-master
general shall be two thousand dollars
Der annum ; and that of his aftiftant,
jne thousand :—
That the new rates of postage shall
take place from the firft day of next
Vlarch :
That any deputy post-master, \vho
tnakes an over-charge of postage, shall
Day a fine of 100 dollars : —
That any private person carrying
etters for hire on the post roads, lhall
pay a fine of 200 dollars ; and 300 dol
ars for every week's continuance of
the practice : —
That any person employed in any of
he departments of the pofi-office, who
hall unlawfully open, detain, or em-
Dezzle any letter or packet, not con
aining notes or any other valuable pro
perty, shall pay a fine, not exceeding
300 dollars, and fuffer imprisonment
"or a term not exceeding lix months : —
That any post rider who delays the
nail, or quits it on the road, fh;/l 1 for
feit 100 dollars :—and.
That any.post-rider, who carricsletters,
:ontraiyto the ast, shall pay a fine of
fifty dollars.
Some other blanks yet remained to
tie filled up, wf ;n the house adjourned.
Tuesday, Jan. 10.
The house agreeably to order pro
;eeded in the further confederation of
he bill to establish the pofl-office and
post-roads within the United States ; the
Teftion under consideration, making
:ompenfation to the deputy past-mas
ters at the places where the European
packets may arrive ; it was then pro
posed to fill the blank with 1950 do! r
iars, which was negatived several
other sums were proposed and negati
ved ; the sum of 1506 dollars was then
proposed and agreed to ; on filling the
blank for the sum to be paid on all {hip
letters delivered at the post office, one
cent was proposed and agreed to ; the
question was then put, shall this bill
pass ; which was carricd in the affirma
tive.—Ordered that the clerk of this
house do carry the fame to the Senate,
andrequeft their concurrence.
Mr. Giles called up a rafalution,
which lay on the table, to this effect :
That the Secretary at war be inftrufted
to lay before this house, accurate ftate
nents of all afccrtained balances of
pay, which appear by the books of the
United States, tQ be due to the officers
?.nd soldiers who served during the late
■var, and those which remain unclaim
ed, &c. which was read and referred to
1 feleft committee of Mr. Wadfworth.
Mr. Giles, and Mr.'J. Smith.(N.H.)
Agreeably to the order of the day,
:he house resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole, Mr. Smith (S. C.) in
the chair, to take into consideration,
the report of the Secretary of the Trea
sury qn the petition ot Catharine Ct eene,
widow of the late major-general Na
thaniel Greene. Mr. Wayne. OfFer-cd
For the consideration of the committee,
a resolution to this effect:
Resolved as the opinion of this com
mittee. that the cftatc of the late major
c-~.
s.
>>
o»
Cfc
%
.-3
Co
E"
Ci
o»
£
general Nathaniel Greene ought to b
indemnified from the engagements ew
tered into by that general, with cer
tain persons in the state of Sonth-Caro
lina, for the purpose of obtaining sup
plies for .he use &f the American army
under his command, in the year i 783,
that the sum of be granted tp the
rxecutors. of the cftate of the late ma
jor general Nathaniel Greene, for that
purpole ; and that a committee be ap
pointed to bring in a bill conforma
ble to fajd resolution •, after some time
(pent in debate, the committee report
ed, progress, and asked leave to fit agai«,
which was granted. Adjourned.
... -.-n
From the Newark. Gazette.
WHEN an opinion generally pre
vails, it is commonly in vain to
ittempt to contravei t it. The fanftion
which it receives by being universally
appears fufficient to condemn
ill the arguments that can be brought
jgainft it ; and by this circumstance ina
iy believe themselves convinced of the
propriety of a fentirnent, without giv
ing themselves the trouble of a moment's
:elle£tion, and in some instances they
ire so far prejudiced that they cannot
jttend with .patience to have it imparti
illy canvafTed.
This observation seems to be verified
)y the inhabitants of the United States
«vith refpeft to the Indians. There is
carcely an individual who is willing to
loubt the propriety of the present war :
aut those who will candidly, weigh the
irguments on both fides, will find m»-
iy scruples not easily to be obviated,
lhere are a variety of circumstances
.vhich render both its just ice and policy
it lead dubious. The rcafonson which
he propriety of commencing hostilities
s founded, are fugh as these—That the
ertility of the American foil is a proof
hat it was never intended to support
;he savages by whom it was fir It inha
bited—that the uncultivated state in
A'hich the Europeans found the eoun
:ry, juftified them in taking pQileffion of
; and that afterwards the infidelity
ind cruelty of its original inhabitants,
rendered them the proper objects of
:ontempt —that the ravages which they
Jaily commit, are incor.tiftent with juf
;ice and tend to retard the fettlemcnt of
3ur frontiers—that treaties have been
'epeatedly violated—that profeffions of
: riend(hip have been mademerely to de
:eive—and that we cannot expect to
ive in lecurity till the Savages are ren
dered incapable of resistance or entirely
exterminated. But it is inconfiflent
ivith the principles of justice to fuppole
:hat a particular class of men should be
denied the privileges enjoyed by others,
jecaufe they have not been equally
Dlefled by Providence ; they certainly
jnfwer the purposes for which they
were intended, and we cannot be julti
fiable in attempting to oppress them.
The cruelty of the Indians cannot be
ienied ;but is it not just? Have not we,
Dy our own conduit, juftified them in
:ommitting the depredations of which
hey are accufcd ? I think I may ven
ure to answer in the affirmative. The
jarbarity and treachery ■which has been
nanifefted towards them, by persons
whose better information ought to have
dictated a different conduct, has furnifh
ed them with a plea, that their behavi
3ur is confident with the law of nations.
If they are fuppoled to poifefs the fame
passions with others, can it be expected
hat they will quietly submit to imposi
tion, and ftifle the desire of retaliation,
when opportunities arc daily offered
'.hem ? But even this fuppolition would
lot be more unreasonable than are fre
quently made.
The conduct of the Pennfylvanians,
which has been similar to that of many
jf the states, is fufficient to show that
:he Indians have been improperly treat
ed. Their measures have been nearly
equal to those adopted by the Pops at
.he discovery of America—he publicly
declared the natives to be, at least, equi
vocal men ; permitted the Europeans to
massacre them with impunity and tranf-
Ferred the whole continent to the king
jf Spain. The inhabitants of the back
parts of Pennsylvania have followed his
example, in plundering the savages of
their property —in murdering them,
without provocation, and in refufing to
punish the murderers when detested.
It is further urged, that they have vi
olated solemn treaties; But have notthese treaties bean defective? Have they
not wanted lome of the qualifications
necessary to render them complete con
tracts ? They certainly, have. They are
not then binding, and may be broken at
pleasure. The poor natives in many
cases are competed by force, to fubfcnbe
to treaties of which they are entirely
ignorant, and which, were they adher
ed to, wqulddeprive thernof such rights
as they value more than their lives ;
they are not in this cafe to be blamed for
their ignorance, but for our treachery
in periuading them for the lake of a few
trifles/toenter into engagements which
w<)uld require them to remove almofl
from the face of the earth, or to make
such fatrifices as require more
on than We purfejves pofl'efs-. But 1 be
lieve there lias never yet been an in
stance in which an Indian treaty hat
been raufcqd, and afterwards broken, ii
it daferved the name of a treaty, unlets
they were fufficiently provoked, to jui
tify them in breaking it that the
fcharVe of their breaking treaties appears
to be without foundation.
It is also alledgcd, that our frontier
inhabitants are exposed ; but let them
pease to encroach on the Indians by re
moving from their land, and the danger
will be ove;-: we shall then live in peacc.
and we ha\ e no right to expett peace
till thismeafure is adopted ; it would be
absurd tp think that we are intitled tc
the western territory because the King
of England has renounced his claim tc
it—he had no more right to dispose ol
it, than the Pop? had to, transfer the
whole Continent when firffidiscovered;
It,follows, tljprefore, that until , we ci
" ther pay the natives the full value ol
the land, or remove from it entirely, we
muftpjepeft to fcte exposed to their ven
geance without the jult privilege of re
taliation. And'indeed t|ie general con
duct of the Europeans, fmce the firft dis
covery of America, has evidently tend
ed to oppress the natives, to deprive
them of iheir propertyandto excite then
hatred, They acquired a title to the
land by pie-occupation, but this title
was deemed infufficient, although other;
were supposed to reft their claims or
the fame grounds.
The sovereigns of Europe thought
themielves entitled 10 the foil they dis
covered ; although at the fame time ii
was thickly inhabited, ftillthey contenc
that the Indians have no right to this
privilege ; but the fact is juff the re
vcrfe—the Indian title is good, and the
European is not, becauie the formei
were the original discoverers, and not
the latter.—But in fatt, the arguments
that were offered to support the propri
ety of the war, Ihow it to be unjust. and
if it be unjust, it muff necessarily be im
politic ; for although national injuftipe
may seem to produce a partial benefit,
yet in the end it will prove the reverse :
justice and policy being inseparably
connected. Ifthennatio iictl reputation
be a matter of importance, as it certain
ly is, the facrificing of this can nevei
be atoned for by a few acres of uncul
tivatedland. The whole western ter
ritory will be of but little value wher
putin competition with the confidence
and effeem of Europe.
We ought therefore tp give up the
former in order to secure the latter. It
would be impolicy indeed, to facrifice
our reputation for any confideratior
whatever, but particularly for an object
of such a nature as that of the prefem
war. Great Britain has brought on her
felf a : load of infamy by attempting in
justice ; and shall not \yjc be deemed
much more infamous, if, after our late
- profeffions, we adopt the very princi
pies that we before reprobated i'
Are not the Indians in the fame situa
tion with refpeil to Great-Britain at the
commencement of the late continental
war P I think they are. The cases are
at lead; similar. The world juftified us
in refilling tyranny, and it will excul
pate them in oppo.lng opprelfion. Wc
refufed to give away our property with
out consent. They also refufed to give
up theirs without their consent; cart
we then fay that our property is fae'red
and that their's is not ? This would be
subverting the principle on which we
revolted from Great-Britain. Perhaps il
may alio be prudent to consider that in i
juff cause and aided byProvidence, they
are as likely to succeed, and to secure
to themselves a favorable peace, as we
were when in a limilar situation. The
late defeat of the army under General
St. Clair fufficiently evinces that the
Indians are not to be conquered, at even
frightened by the appearance of disci
plined troops, and that the war will be
protraffed to such a length that the e,\-
Dcnces of it would be more than luffici
ent to lecure every object that we hope
to obtain in cafe we now succeed.
It is in vain to fay that the natives have
received the full value of their land—
they have not received an hundredth
part of its value. In many places they
have been driven from their poffeoflins,
without obtaining the least cqmpenlati
on—and even, in those cases iu which
we pretend to make compensation, we
held the (word in one hand, and with
the other offeied them proposals die-,
tated by our own, avarice. Some
through fear accepted the latter, but
others, much to their credit have cho
len the former. The character of the
Indians has. generally been given by.
interested persons ; such as have either
been injured by them, or have been ac
tive, in opprefiing them, and therefore
want a preten.ee to juitify-their conduit.
It is natural to fuppole that the ill treat
ment they have received, should mate
rially alter their conduct, and in some
mealurc change their dispositions—but
when the Europeans fir ft came to this
Country, they found them in a state of
innocent simplicity ; had the. fucceffor-s
of Columbus treated them with as much
justice as he did. we should have lived
with them in peace for ever. Thiscon
clufion may evidently be drawn from
the declaration which Columbus made
before the King of Spain. ' I swear'
fays he," to your Majesties, that there
is no better people in the world than
thefe—rnpre affectionate, affable and
mild. Theirlanguageis the fweetefl,
the fofteft, and the mofl pleating, for
they always (peak smiling, and although
they go naked, let your Majeflies be
lieveme s their customs becoming
PHI L A D E I, P H I A,
January 12, 1791.
On Tuesday forenoon the directors of the Bank
of North America proceeded to the choice of a
Prelident, and John Nixon, Eiquire, was unani
mously elcfted.
The annual election for directors ot the Bank
of North America was held 011 Monday lalt, at
the fyid Bank ; when the following gentle men
were chosen for the enfering ye 3r —Thomas
Fitzfimflns, Jpfiah Hewes, George Latimer,
John Morton, Benjamin Fuller, Mprdecai Lew
is, Jofepli Swift, John Swanwick, RobeitWaln,
Miers Fuller, and William Smith.
Accounts from Pittfb >rgh fay, that the inha'i
tants of that placc labor under the moll diilref
fing apprchenliops of an immediate attack from
the confederated Indians. In ccnfequencc ol
these appreh. nflons, which, in the opinion ol
mai)y, ai'e not without fufficieiit foundation, a
ma or pait of the inhabitants art preparing to
leave the place, audi cheat into ::ie interior parts
of the fiate, unlets the moll fpeedv and if!;:ct.ua!
affiflance be afforded'them from government,
Capt. Bi'eks, of the Lady Walterllorft, from
Havre de Grate, informs, that about the 2o(h
of November, a frigate'and fevcral transports 1 :y
there, preparing to receive onboard live thou
fagd troops, deliined for Cape-Fiancois, to re
reheve the tliftreffed inhabitants ol Hifpaniola
from the ravages pi the nifurgcnt negipcs.
Ext>a£l of a letter, to a perfcn in this city, dated
E.lenion (N. C.) Dee. 26.
"A vclIH trpm France arrived here the 2?. d
itiu. bv which we learn that the king of
has made another elopement, ana is now actu
ally in Piuffia."
The committee on the several communication!
of the Governor of pcnnfylvania, relative to the
defence of the wefiern frontiers, have feponed
threerefolutions, in tubfiance as follows: —That
two hundred, and figkt-y militia be employed to
defend the frontier. That the officers be ap
pointed by the Governor, and the force distribu
ted on such paitsot the frontiers, as to the G: >;
vcrrior may teem lit. This fprce to remain to
gether no longer than fix months. That a bouiy
tv be granted to the pe>tons le 1 ving, such as, with
pay given By the United States, liiali make
up the lum of per month.
Oil Saturday lall was preferred to the Secre
tary of State, the model of a machine, the in
vention of Mr. Obauiati Herbert, of Moitnt-
Pleasant, in Monmouth county, New-Jer!ey.
Mr. Herbert, we hear, has petitioned, for a pa
tent for his invention, which is a wheel, that
spins, twrfls and reels, by the ftngle operatisn ol
one person. The advantages of such a machinfc
are evident; and what adds considerably to a
value, is, that it can be alforded at a trifling ad
vance upon the price of the common fpinnin.:
wheels.
On the 23d of November 1 fl the House ol
Representatives of the slate of Georgii took up
the report of their committee on the late election
of a member to represent the lower diflritl ol
that (late in the Congress ot the United States;
fiom which it appeared—ill, That the ele£tion
in the county of Effingham, held 011 the 3dol
January kill was contrary to law> two of the per
ioßS .prefixing at the fame not being qualified
jufhies ancj, that there wei?, nine votes more
than voters at said ele6liort. 2d, i hat the re
turn ol the election of Glynn county was fup
preljed, which return the Hon, Judge Ofborne
(chief justice of the'date) had undertaken to con
vey to the executive, but which w*p 10 g en '
eral Anthony Wayne," together with :he return
from the qpuniy oiCambd-n? w:::ch ! i 0 Was on-
Iy dfclivcr.(} to the executive in time.- 3c!.
r jLhat after closing the legal poll of the county ol
CanftLden, the return (being fifteen [or geneial
Wayne and ten tor generalJack'on) was deli
vered to judge Ofborne, who, with iome othei
persons, did afterwards hold a second eietlion,
and augmented the number of votes considerably
in fevorof general Wayne. 4th, J hat rroP» un
due and corrupt piacticcs were allowed at..tins
election, bv letting down the uames.oi men,
wert? noVprefertt at the said election; and that
Ihi tax return for the county ot Cambden hac!
been kept back, which deflroy.s the piilv check
the Uatelias on the eietlors— all which proceed
i.V ', tn the opinion. of she cohvmitu e, " are par
tial, aihit:ary, illegal, and in maniteft violation
01 the sacred trull reposed in laid ,udge Ofborne;
a perversion of the law, and a daring; outrage on
the liberties, rights, and privileges state ol
(4:0 ; gia, and lending to the fubyeriion of the go
vcrnment; it being evident that a member is re
turned to the Gongrefs of the United States, who
is not duly elected by tlie voice of the citizens
o£ the ftatc of Georgia."— A resolution was re
commended by the committee for impeaching
the sard judge Ofborne, as " guilty oi various
aial-practices relatiye 19. this,election, and who
ought thelefore to be impeached of divers
high crimes and mifdcmcauorc;" zpd far
tber, it was the opinion of the committee, thit
general James Jackfonis bv the free voice of the
people their icprelentative for the lower dill rift
ol Georgia to the Gongrefi ol the United States,
and that by mal-praflice he was not returned." —
ibeteport, with other in.liHcd particulars, be
ing read, was agreed to by the hpuie and a com
mittee appointed to Carry a mellage to the Se
nate, impeaching at theii bar, the laid judge Of
borne, of divers high crinjes and
It was then luther rtfolved that live commillipn
cis Ihonld be appointed to draw up and exhibit
the articles of impeachment.
ExtraEl oj'a letterfrom lYaJlnngton-ccur.ty,Dec. 25.
" The Indians are, beyond all controverfv, a
moic formidable enemy than is generally appre
hended ; and there is n®thing wanting to con
vince the United States of this truth, but una
nimity amongfl the different'tribes. That it has
now become their interest to unite mufl be evi
dent to every man wjio will think qn the fubjeft;
pnd it is not to be doubted that there arc charac
ters apong them well qualified to elfeft a gener
al combination. The Indians do not.want either
underflanding or courage; their mode of war
will always : ive them a superior advantage over
a regular arrtiy, when their numbers are nearly
equal; and, by their situation, we labor under
nearly the fame di fad vantages that Great-Britain
did in the late war with us, and in some particu
lars, worse. No supplies can be had in the In
dian country, and when those fqr our troops are
exbaufled or ir.tercepted by the enemy, the con
sequence is fatal. think it a miflaken policy 10
eft»blifh polls in the enemy's country, without
planting Irillcments in their neighborhood. II
lufiieieni encouragement were giyen to fettle on
the (tor, tiers, men in plenty would be had in eve
ly relpeft qualified for fueh a fitmVioti. There
are at this moment jhoufands of hardy, able bo
died men in Kentucky ancj 011 the frontiers ol
Virginia and Pennlyh'-nia, that do not poflels an
acre ol ground ; and confi qut ntljr dp not feel a
Sufficient interest with, and attainment to the
community. Nine pence a day is no induce
ment to a man to light in a cause in which he is
not immediately intciefled ; but give such men
wages, and a reasonable- Ihare in the lands for
which they are to contend, and they will be as
eager to take poflellion ol the wtflern lands as the
Indians are to keep them. But >t it may be re
lied on the savages are not to be subdued by mer
cenaries who fight for rujie pence a day, nor
eighteen pence neither. It will probably not
be in the power of the general government to
iaifr and lend out tipops with the alacrity that
qiicumllaiices demand. An interference there
fore of the Hate governments feeir.s necetfarv, to
furnilh men for a temporary defence of the fron--
t.crs; and if this be not don® without delay, the
prcleat line of frontiers will be driven in, and the
enemy fuScied to penetrate what dillance they
plealc into the settlements. At present, twelve
hundred aflive troops will hardly be fulficient tq
protect the frontiers of Peunlylvania only, and if
the general government wcie to embedv twenty
thcufand ir.ep (including five thousand riflemen)
I Ihould not think it an p' cr-proportion."
Extract of a letter from a rgchtleman in
Tqrtola, dated, !):•. 9.
" My fittiation on this iilaml has enabled me to
remark upon an appearance in nature, for which I
do not know that any rational cause has ever been
afiigned, i have generally observed, that for se
veral daysbefore a feverc hurricane (the weather
being at such times calm and moderate) the sea is
nevt rthelef* in a great commotion, not only near
the thore, but alio at a confideiable dillance off
It is not reafotjable to imagine that this motion
is communicated by the ocean, agitated by high
winds in other places ; for, tne motion of the
wind being naturally quicker than any that could
be communicated by the sea at luch a dillance,
it is plain the wind mull frrft arrive. lam there
fore inclined to fuppol'c—that, in ail probability,
i thcfs violent. eonyvJiSouiof stmefphecs.cal!«l v
hurricanes, do not originate in the clouds, as haa
been imagined, but rather arise from the bottom
of the deep. v\ hat fcems, in some rneafure, to
confirm this idea, is, that previous to a hurri
' cane on land, there is commonly heard £ hollow
rumbling found in deep wells, and pits, attended
with a strong fniell of lulphur. J offer this only
as a conjedure, hut the fubjeil f;ems worthy of
philjffophical disquisition,' 1
f Fmm a correspondent]
IN a'l wife nations, where virtue and morality
have been_ belt und.erftood arid pra&iced, thpt/iea?
Ire has not only been tolerated, but proteiSted
and encouraged by the ruling powers and the
public voice of the people. The theatre'in Ame
rica has ever labored under almost inextricable
difficulties, owing in some degree to prejudice, aj
well as to the small encouragement an infant
country like this has been able to bestow on the
merits of the Itage. To put the theatre on a
more refperSabie footing than hitherto, in Phila
delphia (the Athens of America) a gentleman of
thv.ttage, from this place, is now in England
colleiiing a -more, refpe&able company of aitors
than has heretofore appeared on tlie American
continent A lot of ground, it is said, has also
been purcliafed at the upper end of Chefnut Street
near Seventh A f eet, for the ereflion of a theatre,
upon an improved plan, and which, it is expec
ted, will be much more convenient in every ref
ped than that in Soutbwark, as well as more fa
vorably situated for the resort of the lovers of
rational and polite amufenjent.
A corcefpondent who,withes neither to (latter
nor infylt government, but to deliver his senti
ments with that decent freedom which is the
prerogative of every citizen of this country, —
fays, that the Indians would be better manage i
bv treaty than bv war. At the firft fettleme»t
of this country, the provinces (as they were then)
of MafTachufetts Bay and Pennsylvania adopted,
one, the hollile, and the other, the pacific method
of dealing wit h the Indians. The experiment
was fairly tried, and the misery of the firft pro
vince was as remarkable as the prosperity of the
latter. In Maffichufetts Bay they were con
tinually harralfed with tumults and invasions.-—
The land, where many a melancholy tragedy
w s acted, was deluged with blood. The In
dians killed half of its inhabitants, and it was
once feared that they wquld extirpate every white
man from the settlement. In Pennsylvania they
knew nothing but harmony. They honestly
purchased, and peaceably took pofleflion of some
lands from the Indians, and maintained an in
celfant and friendly communication with them,
extending by degrees the settlement of the peo
ple ps the province upon the frontier. The sa
cred faying was verified, in regard to Pen«-
fylvania, " Bleffsd are the meek, for they {J.all
inherit the earth."—Our correspondent fays,
that the rondu£l of the general government 111
regard to the southern Indians was deservedly
.applauded. The state of Georgia had palled an
att to dispose of the lands in the backpart of the
state belonging to the Indians, which they called
" vacant lands." The general government de
nied-the right to enter into the lands of the In
dians without their being purthafed or ceded ;
nr.d concluded a treaty with the Indians upon
just and humane principles. The murmurs
which were made at the expence attendant upon
this treaty were, perhaps, illiberal and improper.
It would be happy for the interefls of humanity
if the northern Indians could be managed in the
lame amicable manner with the southern. The
character of the celebrated William Penn ap
pears as great in the management of the Indians,
as it was little and mischievous in the support of
the tyrannical James the second, of England,
against the immortal hero, William the third.
The Quaker knew to tame an Indian, as well
as a Moor to tame a lion,
Semblable anficr Hon, qu'un Maur afu dennter.
jjji' doalt a fori Maitre, a tout autre terrible ;
4 la main y u'ii connoit ilfoumctf n tcte h rrible,
LeJuit d'un air ajfrtux, leJlatte cn rougijjant,
Et paroit menacer, meme en obeiJJant.
HARTFORD, Jan. 2.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in Cape-
Francois, to another in this city, dated Dec. 6.
" Times here haye been very troublesome,
by the revolt of the negroes, and our markets
miserably dull ; this got to America, and of
course no veflel came here; in consequence pro
duce is now taking a rife, particularly rice and
flour —failed provifron is comir'g on. There
are not above twelve veflels in our port, and
those ?re nearly ready to fail —There is very
little provision in the place, so that there must
necelfarilv be a demand, for the consumption is
ever the fame. We have drove the negroes
from he plains into the mountains, and it is sup
posed they cannot keep together much longer —
one half of them are starved. We have lately
received three commiftioners from France, and
the information they biing gives great pleasure
to the inhabitants."
NEW-YORK, Jan. 10.
Yefteiday morning, about 4 o'clock, this city
was alarmed by a mod tremendous fire, which
happened at a house in Front-flreet, between the
Fly-market and Depeyfter,ftreet, by means of
which seven dwelling-houses were confirmed,
and several others much damaged. Happily the
wind blew in such a direction as to carry the em
beis from the city. The houses destroyed were
occupied by Mrs. Dickey, Mr. Reynolds, Mr.
Hughes, Mr. Dennis M'Cready, Mr. Lalor, and
Mrs. Keeling.
We learn that a fubfeription is opened for
the relief of the fufferers.he following /ires Were zuritten forte fears age
(Sept. on hoard the brig Dromil'y, in
Kingston harbour, Jamaica j and fait to the keep
er of the King s water.work:, r.car Rock-fort ;
ivho had reft/fed the writer a puncheon of wato
from a reservoir that was, by royal order y appro
priated to the uftof the royal tanjy, 1
CAN K2) that o'er two Indies holds the ftfay
Where e'er the ocean flows, whose fleet? patrol
"Who bids Hibernians rugged sons obey,
And at whose nod (you fay) (hakes either pole ' y
Can he, whose crown a thowfand jewels grace,
Of worth untold—can he, so rich, deny
One simple puncheon from this ample vafe#
Begg*d by his quondam fu-bjedl—water dry ?
Vast are the springs in yonder cloi>d-capt frW :
"Why then confine the free-born chryftal wave }
Where hogs and degi and keepers drink their fill,
May I not foraething from your bounty crave ?
Keeper? flbroft I with empty cask return,
Ju ft fee the limpid stream, that runs to wade—
Deny'd the wave that flows from nature's urn*
By kocks and keys fecur'd from vulgar taftc ?
Yes ! if I muft—inform the royal ear,
Poor are some King's that still in Britain live $
Tell him, that nature is no niggard here*
Tell him—'that he wrth-hotds what beggars give
SINB AT.
[Jill our curious dock-walkers mufl have taken no
tice of the fine Indian Head of the Jhip Delaware 3
belonging to this port• Whether it teas from c
late attentive fttrvey of that fgure (which is c
modil of perfeiiion in its kind) or from what other
cause J know not, but upon my retiring to reft c
feio nights ago t Ino sooner fell ajleep than 1 ima
gined myfelf standing upon one of the wharves
ivith the carved Indian figure full in my front
Iwhen it instantly afj'ttmca the mien and attitude Oj
an or at or, and with a menacing frown utter ct
the following speech to a crowd that had eolleSlci
upon this extraotdinary occaJion.~\
4i T~ HAVE every reason to believe, gentlemen
JL that I w&s placed here as the emblem of va
Jour, activity, perseverance, industry and cunning
So far, therefore, have your countrymen teftifie<
in favor of an opinion, almost universally exploded
that the inhabitants of the western forefls havi
some affinity with the human species* } wiik the)
had gone a little farther, and in their general con
du& towards our tribes in peace and war treated u
as beings poflefteJ of reason, and pra&icing fom<
few of the inferior virtues. Alas, it 19 too eviden
from their a&ions, that they place us upon a foot,
iug with the beasts of the vvildernefs, and confide
an Indian and a Buff aloe as alike entitled by na
Sure to property or poflefikm.
My heart bleeds within me when I reflefl up
on the wrongs of my countrymen, the inflgnifican
rank they appear to hold in the scale of animatet
being, and their probable extirpation fiom th
continent of America.
Nature is cruel in all her Works. She fuccef
fively destroys not only the individuals of a fpc
cies, but at certain periods a whole class of a fpe
cies; nay, the species itfelf sometimes total!;
disappears. This cruel mother is nevertheless f<
merciful as, for the most part, to bring about fuel
events imperceptibly and gradually. Why thei
would you anticipate her designs, and by ever'
means in your power hurry us in a moment fron
this earth before nature has said, There is an em
to the children of the for eft ?
" Our habitations were once on the borders o
the rivers of the ocean, and in the pleasant vicini
ty of its rtiores. The fails of Columbus, and Ca
bot, and Raleigh appeared. With grief we fau
your superior fk.ill, your surprising pre-eminenc<
5n art, your machines of death before which ou:
arrows and darts were no more than the toys o
children—ln dread of your superior power, we re
treated from the shore to the Allegany ; from th<
Allegany to the Ohio j we have bid an everlaftinj
adieu to the pleafantland of Kentucky j you hav<
at length followed us over the Ohio—you meditat*
to drive us beyond the MifMppi—to the lake o,
the woods 5 to the frozen defarts of the north, anc
to the regions of darkness and defolat!*on. Bu
how unreasonable, how crtrel are your designs,
Compelling us to remove farther into the forefls i<
the fame to us as death and ruin. We must then
fight for the possession of the foil before we car
hunt in fafety, as independent poflefibrs j and a:
we retreat before you, remember that foes of oui
pwn colour and kindred increase upon us, like
swarms from the hollow tree : Nations extremely
tenacious of their hunting grounds, less enervated
with your baneful liquors than ourselves, and con
sequently more warlike, more robust, and ever
gods, in comparison to the feeble tribes who yet
cxift between you and them.
" You detest us for having the feelings of men,
you despise, in us, the virtue of patriotism, so na
tural to all mankind, and so extolled by your
selves. But what were your feelings when, only
a few years ago, the great king on the other fide
of the water intruded upon your rights ? You fill
ed the world with your clamors—heaven and earth
were called to witness, that you were determined
to defend those rights which had been bestowed
upon yoo by the Great Man above, and for th<
preservation of which you prayed him to smile up
on your warfare. He heard your prayers and you
were fuccefsful j the enemy retired with fliame,
and your warfare was crowned with an honorable
peace.
You yourselves are now, in your turn, becom<
the oppreflors. Do not blame us then for poflef
fingthe fame feelings with yourselves on the fame
occasion. Your desperation carried all before it,
and why would not ours do the fame, when wj
are obliged to a& against you from the fame mo
tives.
Say not that you have purchased our territory.
Was a keg of whiskey, some bundles of laced coats 3
or a few packages of blankets, an equivalent foi
the extent of a kingdom r or was a bargain with
some drunken chiefs of one or two nations, an ob
ligation upon aa hundred tribes?
• riow mvcfi do ye 1h(n& ffl f<fsr own light, ye
free white men of America—How are you duped
by the deep and designing ! —Not a single fokiier
lecd be lent to ast offcnfively in the Indian coun
ry. Our ccmmcrcial intercourfc with you woulc
ift'e&ua-lly destroy us as fact as you could advance
four frontier by cultivation and natural popula
tion. Your neighborhood is death to us* W«
:annot exist among you—but fuffer us, we beseech
iOU, to disappear gradually from this miftjra-ble
tage of human eaiilenCe, and not like a taper, by
i fuduen blast, be extinguished in a moment !
You have, at different times, been at much ex
.enccrn fending among us religious miffionarkfs tc
cft'cdt our converfton to your faith. I wish fhoft
gentlemen had been as alTiduous in inculcating the
?ra<£Vtce of the moral and social virtues as thej
a-ere busy in pestering us with mysteries-—The)
lave, however, said enough upon the virtue o
etnpcrauce to persuade us not to destroy ourfelve;
A/ith rum, brandy, or New-Sngland wh-ifheydu
ing the remainder of the present century.—The r i
»ood men have now quit us entirely, and given u:
ip to the god of nature—you fend armies in th?ii
■oom* not to convert, but to destroy us jto burr
iur towns r.nd turn us out naked to the mercy o:
he elements ; to lhoot us down wherever they ear
ee us, and propagate a principle as difgraceful tc
i'oar preten.lcd age of philosophy as it is repug
nant to truth and reason, that the rights of an In
lian are not the rights of a man ! "
Being suddenly awaked by the yelpings of *
paoiel, that constantly sleeps at the foot of m 3
>ed, 1 ioft the remainder of this extraoidinar)
"peech. Jan. 9.
Reflections of a King, on his Journey tc
Cheltenham. —11 th Edition.
Tranjlatedfrom a French Paper of ORober 10.]
THIS ingenious pamphlet has had great fuc
efs in England. It offers to our view a natura
>011ra> t of the king of Great-Britain, his origi
lalturn of mind, l is whims, his faults, his opi
lions, his foibles, and his fopperies. In this verv
nterefting piece we may also discover the feerei
liftory of the court of England. The author, ir
his work, makes George the 3d his own hiftori
m, and good judges will find that the chara&ei
ia-j been humoured perfe&ly well. A bette:
• pinion of the woik will, however, be formed bj
ome paflages we will take leave to quote. The
eader will call to mind the journey the kin£
nade to Cheltenham (a place in England famous
or the medecinal quality of its waters) a short tim<
previous to the ditcovery of his insanity. The
uthor supposes that at this petiod a fancy ft ruck
he king to write the history of his own journey,
n the following manner he is made to speak 0
lis progenitors and himfelf t—"During an ac
[uaintance of seventy years Handing, the houf;
if Hanover has not vet formed any tolerable ide<
if Great-Britain. My two predccefiors, botl
nen of courage and honesty, were absolute ftran
;ers in the country where they were said to go
vern ; and if they ever went out of light of theii
:aoital, it was only to gratify the very natura
lefire of feeing their dear native land. As tc
myfelf, I was from my infancy puffed up wit!
/ain notions of power and glory, a»d was placec
jnder the eye of Chatham, who had more thai:
Dnce seized the reins of government from m;
grandfather, and buoyed up by the popular infa
tuation of the times, frequently insulted my youtl
and inexperience*
tl Lord Bute would have delivered me from thi
controul of Pitt, but he wanted the neceftary ta
lents, ana the conflict between them ended in
eonfufion.
** Upon my coming to the throne, the Scots,
like so many famifhed grasshoppers, flocked abou 1
me. Every source of corruption was exhauftec
to fatisfy them. It was then proposed to diftrfef:
America under pretence of a consolidation of go
vernment, but the real cause was to find place;
for the Scots* 1 was deceived. I was so weal
as to consent to ruin the colonies for the fake ol
providing offices for these importunate ones.
The one-half of my fubje&s then revolted, a!
the idea of taxes being imposed upon them with
out consent or representation. 1 was then pelted
with libels, I was hooted at, and sometimes in
sulted. At the very time I was driving all be
fore me in America, 1 hardly dared to stir out oi
my palace at home.
" Hitherto I had contented myfelf with tra
velling on a map. In this manner I journeyec
>ver Scotland in company with lord Bute, whe
lad fully depi&ed all its beauties to me. In thi;
nanner I fought fide and fide with lord George
>ackville for the conquest of America. POOI
iackville ! Both alike unpopular, we fympathi
:ed with each other. He was a much more
igreeable preceptor to me than Bute, and was
lefides an excellent soldier upon a map.—-The
mountains that bound the horizon of Windfot
lave been to me, till this hour, the confines ol
he world, and the idea of going beyond them has
;iven me not a little disquiet. I have bten
aught to consider the peasantry and artiftsas my
;reateft enemies, and indeed they have been sadly
rampled under foot in order to enrich a venal
najority in my insatiable parliaments. In what
ort of humour they are at present, and how they
vill receive me are serious questions.
<c Jenkenfon ridiculed these apprehensions—
4Jfume a faered character (said he) accufiomyour
"ef to an overbearing mode of behavior—You may
hen fuck tlje very blood of tbe and they Ivil,
vorjhip you while you are doing it. Do you know
he reason why Jenkenfon wiihed to be a lord ?
n the opinion of the public the name of Jenken
on was fynonimous with every thing that was
>afe, black, and treacherous j in a word, he wa>
:onfidercd an adept in every species of politica
illainy—he could not pass a turnpike without a
uarrel or receiving an insult—the very farmers
et their dogs after him to lug him—He was then
nade lord Hawkeflmry ! —At the name of lord
lawkelbury all the world was cap in hand, anc
ven thefrr(t minister was his humble fervant.^
1 reeolleft, at my firft visit to Oxford, 1 felt
little afliamed of my defettive education. The
dea of the immortal Alfred, who came into the
voi'ld to establish peace and happiness among
nankind, as I did to divide and destroy them.
truck me in a forcible manner. The fubilme
eni-us that /ketched out the Bririfli cor.ftirurion.
oundcd -lfo the oniverGty of Oxford—one, the
irft effort of the human mind j tho other, th«
iift university in the world—both of them havi
>irt a sickly afj>e<st in my reign. Fifty years ol<
vas I before I ever had a fight of the univtrfirv o
3xford—l never even dreamt of it, exceptinj
bout the time of genera) eledlions. The num
»er and magnificence of its colleges, it;, halls, it
ibraries, its schools, and their opulent endow
nents, perfectly astonished me. i nevrrthelef
ibferved a great difpraportion between the build
ngs and the number of their occupants. Gx
ord, to come any thing near the extent of it
ilan, ought to maintain from twenty to thir
y thousand students, whereas there are not mcr
han a thousand, if that. Since the accclTlon c
he Hanover family there has been a coldaefs be
ween Oxford and the court—and when they be
;an to open to me the history of the several col
eges, and the annals of the ancient kings of thi
ountry, I felt like a perfedl ftrangcr> and hardl;
eeroed to be one of the family.
"Oxford, it is true, neither stands in needof cour
avor or court afiiftance. it only wants a reforn
ind discipline to come up to the ideas of its foun
ters. But who will undertake such a reform ii
•ppofltion to the habits of indolence fan&ioned b
ime, and opulence so firmly eftabliihed.
44 It would be no small fatisfa&ion to me X
ee my own name among those of the Edward
ind Henries—alas—-that is not my destiny—
lave expended more than an hundred millions ii
ndeavoring to reduce the Americans to a Itate o
lavery—thefe are my honors, this is my history
te Every thing in Oxford has an air of debauch
;ry and superstition. The bells call you to churc
•very hour in the day-—the trifling formalities o
>rayer tired out my patience—the old monkif
labitsofthe clergy, obsolete in other places, ar
till retained here—there is abundance of extern;
how, but the sentiments of true religion seem nc
o bedepi&ed upon a frngle countenance —and th
aces of the profefFors absolutely resemble a blaz
>f fire.
The hewfpapers have greatly interrupted m;
epofe, and accelerated the operation of the mi
»eral waters. Mem. tadiminifo the dofe y whene
jcr the paper s give me any trouble. Westminster
forefee, will soon be in a hurly-burley. Pitt tell
ne that his credit ig loft forever if the treafur;
nuft find the means of smothering this flame—
ind as to the civil lift, it will not afford hal
nough.-—I will dine no more in public. 1 wil
ake lodgings for myfelf and the queen, in some o
he houses about the palace; and I will gnaw upoi
he revenue of the prince in order to save my own
But the parliament is a tremendous gulph, a bot
omlifs pit.—l am aftonifbed people do not fee int
be notbingr.efi of it—J can aiivays, have a majo
iry in it, purcbafed by means of the wy mone
with ivbicb tbe nation so liberally fuppliet me.
3ut, who is the people ? or, where is the people
t is a mere creature of the imagination, a phantor
>f which cunning practitioners have ever serve
hemfelves in order to frighten over-credulou
criminals.*'
PARIS, October, 12.
Many ages have elapsed since the popes firft be
hought themselves to make a regular price cur
ent of indulgences. Thi? price current has beei
everaf times reprinted at Rome, under the au
hority of the popes. With a view to give man
und an idea how greatly they have been, an
UU are (in some imposed upon by ecclefi
iftical avarice and Cunning, we will detail a fei
irticles.
1 A man (not of the clergy) who beats a p-ri e
vithout fetching blood, 6 livres. £» s.
2 A man for killing another must pay 4 4
3 A man who fails of performing a vow
o visit the churches of the apostles 10 16
4 For him who kills his father, mother,
lis wife or his sister, ... 60
5 For dragging a murderer from the
hurch where he had taken refuge, 26 is
6 For him that burns his neighbor's
muse, . . ..74
7 For eating flefh or poultry during Lent, 6 6
8 For a bastard that enters into holy cr
iers, . , . 10 16
9 For him who lays with his mother or
lis sister, . . . 4 10
10 For marrying at a time prohibited by
he church, . . • 48 o
11 For him who Jays with a woman in a
hurch, . . . 55 2
12 For a priest who takes a concubine,
>nd wifhesto be difpenled from living ac
ording to chutch rules, . 6 6
13 For a king or a cjveen who wi/h to
njoy the fame privileges, as if they had
nade a journey to Rome, . . 337 o
14 For a general difpetfatipn from kecp
ngfaft days, . . . 24 18
15 For a general abfolutioo from all fins, 67 10
16 For a king who visits the holy land
without permifiion, • . 163 10
LONDON, Sept. 15.
That the French did not adopt some middle way
>etween defpotilm and the entire fubterfion of their
'Id government; that they did not accommodate
heir reform to the plan of the Engli/h conftitu
ion, mult have been the effe«ft of necefiity. Th<
ourt and ariftocratical party had formed a defigi
o difiolvc the National Afi'embly j and to get rii
it their filcal difficulties by a general bankruptcy
(receded by a war with England. These darl
ind deftrudive designs compelled the AfTembly an
he nation to go the lengths which they havegon
or their own security.
Advices from Palermo, in Sicily, mention th
leath of the monster-making prince Palagonia, i
hat city. This strange genius delighted in em
>)oying artists, not to imitate nature in her moi
aptivating forms, but in designing and executin
uch monsters as nature, however perverted, coul
lever produce. He is particularly characterize
n one of Dr. Brydone's letters, written from Pa
ernao. He constantly employed", for upwards 0
hirty years, a number of Iculptors and stone-cut
ers, whose extravagant and absurd production
amount to near a thousand pieces—all remarka
ble for nothing but deformity without humour :
bitds with human heads, and men with the heads
of beasts, &c. &c.—The time has-been, when
such talents would have been held in admiration,
in various parts of the world.
GEORGE MEADE
HAS FOR SALE,
At bis Stores on Walnut-Street Wharf,
A FEW pipes of 3 and 4. years old b 'uh of ex
change Madeira WINE > <wbicb he will dis
pose of by the pipe, hogshead or Quarter cask.
London market MadeiraWlNF. ,5 and bycars old.
Old Sherry IVINE of the fir ft quality y by the
bogfiead or quarter cask.
Three and 4 years old Liflton IVINE, of a fu
terior quality to what is generally imported, by the
pipe, quarter cask, or larger quantity.
Choice old Con'uc BRANDY, by the pipe y tierce,
or larger quantity.
A few quarter chcjls offirfi quality Hyson TEA*
He has juji received by the Pig»u y Ltocley, majier %
f'om London, a few quarter cajkz of old Madeira
WINE—And
By the brig Mercury, capt, Stevens, from Dub
lin, a few boxes of Ir'tjb LINENS, lew priced
and well ajforttd : a few bales of Red end White
FLANNELS, and jome GLUE.
A few boxer of Spermaceti CANDIES of the
GfM quality, and But Ungton PORKnfprime quality
He has also to difpoje cf a quantity cf drcjfed
White Oak STAVES.
He means to keep a conjlant supply of Firjl Qr/a
lity Madeira and Lijbon WINES, and whoever
fj pleased to favor him with their euJ}om y may be
ifj'ured of being well served.
He will through the Winter ar.d Spring, buy
vndref/id Li AN DSP IKES. He is pur chafing
FLAXSEED aud BEES WAX, and will give
the highest Price for them.
N. B. A few Hampers of excellent London
PORTER and Taunton ALE y juji arrived and
'0 be disposed of. tf
ROBERT SMOCK,
Woollen Draper Is" Mercer,
\las juji received by the Jhip Pigou, from London
and for sale at his Store, on the north eajl corner
of Market and Third Jlreets, Ph'Uadephia,
AN ELEGANT ASSORTMENT OF
SUPERFINE and super broadcloths, in aimoft
every colour.
Ladies fuperftne habit cloths a in the most faihion
able colours.
Superfine caffimers, do.
E)o. and super eiaftic ftrlped cloths,
Vlilled drabs and hunters cloths.
A variety of fancy waiftcoating, in silk, silk and
cotton, silk moleskin, cailimers printed and
tamboured, and fuperftae ltriped hpanifli toili
nets.
Mens black fattins, florentines, and silk prunellas
of superior qualites
silk, silk and cotton, cotton and woffled hofc,
aflorted.
Sattins andmantuas, a beautiful variety.
superfine rattinets, with a large collection of bed
trimmings for cloths, Sec. of every quality.
Moreens, joans spinning, durants and caliman
coes.
Hairbines and camblets, &c.
3-8 wide fuperfine Marseilles quilting wieh bor
ders.
Marseilles bedquilts and cotton counterpanes, 9-4
to 12-4.
Flanders bedbunts and bedtickings.
A beautiful variety of chintzes and cottons.
An elegant assortment of yard wide furniture
chintzes, in beautiful colours and patterns*
' with a large variety of furniture cottons.
Velveteens, velvets, corduroys, thickfeis, fancy
cords, stockinets, royal ribs, fattinets, hair
pluftes, &c. &c.
Striped and grey, twilled and plain Bath coatings.
Rose blankets aflorted.
ROBERT SMOCK has also for Sale, a great
Variety of GOODS of the heft quality in their
several kinds. He presumes it is unnecefiarv to
be more particular in the enumeration, and that
it is fufficicnt to fay the assortment is very gene
ral and exlenfive, consisting of alrnoft every arti
:le in his line of business.—Being desirous of giv
ng entire fatisfattion to those who may be pleased
:o favour him with their custom, as well
is cf meriting a continuance of those cuf
omers, whose favours he has hitherto cxpenen
ed, he flatters himfelf the cheapness of his Goods
vill be the best means of effecting his wiflies.
JUST PUBLISHED,
and for sale by
THOMAS LANG,
No. ai, Church alley ;•
An Efi'ay on
COMMERCE and LUXURY.
le-printed from the London edition—Price jft.
The merit of this work will be acknowl
edged by every judicious reader. The re-publi
ation of it in this country, at this time, has been
,dvifed by several enlightened patriots. These
vifh to promote our national commerce, on the ba
is of agriculture and induftrv, free from the
)afe alloy of imposition and gaming. They set 1
)roper value on tlie conveniences and
)f civilized life j but detest that luxury which \ J
:he offspring of a frivolous tacte A and the mothe*
)f profligacy, difhoneftv, poverty, of number
less private and public vices and micfortunes.
Nov. 28, e.t. t»
%* A few copies of the REPORT of
the Secretary of the Treasury, ore theJubjeEl
of manufactures, may be had at ihe
Office, No. 239, Itigk-Street.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS anp SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIGH-STREET*
MAR SIITK-STBIET)
miLAHirm'*