Vol. I.
Articles of Amendment, to
the Constitution ojthe Unit
ed States, proposed, by Con
gress to the Legiflaturcs of
the Several dates, pursuant to
the Fifth Article of the Con
stitution, and which, when l
ratified by three fourths of j
the said Legiilatures, to be
valid to all intents and pur
poses, as part of the said
Constitution.
ARTICLE I.
AFTER the firft enumer
ation required by the
firft article of the constituti
on, there shall be one Repre
sentative for every thirty
thousand, until the number
shall amount to one hundred,
after which the proportion
shall be so regulated by Con
gress, that there shall be not
iefs than one hundred Re
presentatives nor less than
one Representative for every
forty thousand persons, until
the number of Representa
tives shall amount to two hun
dred ; after which the pro
portion shall be so regulatec 1
by Congress, that there fhali
not be less than two hundred
Representatives, nor mori
than one Representative foi
every fifty thousand persons.
ARTICLE 11.
No law varying the com
penfation for the services o
the Senators and Represen
tatives, shall take effect, un
til an election of Reprefenta
tives shall have intervened.
ARTICLE 111.
Congress shall make n<
law refpe&ing an establish
ment of religion," or prohib
iting the free exercise there
of, or abridging the freedorr
of speech, or of the press ; oi
the right of the people peace
ably to aifemble, and to peti
tion the government for a re
drifs of grievances.
ARTICLE IV.
A well regulated militi;
being necelfary to the securi
ty of a free state. the right oi
the people to keep and beai
arms shall not be infringed.
ARTICLE V.
No soldier shall in time o:
peace be quartered in ar.)
house without the consent o
the owner ; nor in time o:
war, but in a manner to be
prescribed by law.
ARTICLE VI.
The right of the people tc
be lecure in their persons.
houses, papers, and effects, a
gainst unreasonable searches
andfeizures, shall not be vi
olated ; and no warrants shall
iffuebut upon probablecaufe,
supported by oath or affirma
tion. and particularly deferr
ing the place to be searched.
and the persons or things tc
be seized.
ARTICLE VII.
No pcrfon shall be held tc.
answer for a capital, or other
wise infamous crime, unlcfs
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhed. Mondays ana Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
MONDAY, March 12, 1792.
By what Slates and zohtn Ra
tified.
N. Hampfliire, Jan. 25, 179 c
Vermont, Novem. 3, 1791
Rhode-lfland, June 179 c
N. York, March 27, 170 c
,N. Jersey, August 3, 179 c
Penniylvania, Sep. 21, 1791
Maryland, Decern. 19, 178 c
Virginia, November 3,
N. Carolina, Dec. 22, 178 c
S. Carolina, Jan. 19, 179 c
Vermont, Novem. 3, 179
Delaware, January 28, 179 c
Maryland, Deccm. 10, 1781
*Virginia, Decern. 15, 1791
N. Carolina, Dec. 22,
S. Carolina^
N. Hampshire, Jan. 25, 179 c
Vermont, Novem. 3, .1791
khode-Ifland, June,
N. York, March, 27, 179 c
N. Jerfcy, August 3, 179 c
►Pennsylvania, Mar. 10, 179 c
Delaware, January 28, 179 c
Maryland, Decern. 19, 178 c
Virginia, Decern. 15, 179';
N. Carolina, Dec. 22, 178 c
S. Carolina, Jan. 19, 179 c
N. Hampshire, Jan. 25, 179 c
Vermont, Novem. 3, 179]
Rhode-lliand, June, 179 c
N. York, March 27, 179 c
N. Jersey, August 3, 179 c
Penniylvania, Mar. 10, 170 c
Delaware, Jan. 28, 179 c
Maryland, Decern. 19, 178 c
Virginia, Deccm. 15, 1793
N. Carolina, Dec, 22, 178 c
S. Carolina, Jan. 19, 179 c
~N. Hampshire, Jan. 25, 179 c
Vermont, Nov. 3, J791
Rhode-lfland, June, 179 c
N. \ ork, March 27, 179 c
N. Jersey, August 3, 179,
Fennfylvania, Mar. 10, 179 c
Delaware, Jan. 28, 179 c
Maryland, Dec. 19, 178 c
Virginia, Dec. 15, 1791
N. Carolina, Dec. 22, 178 c
S. Carolina, Jan. 19, 17' c
N. Hampshire, Jan. 25, ijcjt
Vermont, Nov. 3, 1791
Rhode-lfland, June 179 c
N. York, March 27, 179 c
N. Jersey, A.uguft 3, 1 7 ,, t
-'Penniylvania, Mar. 10, 170 c
Delaware, Jan. 28, 179 c
Maryland, Dec. 19, 378 c;
Virginia, Dec. 15, i 7QI
N. Carolina, Dec. 22, 1789
S. Carolina, Jan. 19, 1 790
on a prefenlment or indift
mentof a grand jury, except
in cases arising in the iand or
naval forces, or in the militia
when in actual service in time
Df war or public danger ; nor
(hall any person be fubjeft
for the fame offence to be
twice put in jeopardy ps life
or limb ; nor shall bfe com
pelled in any criminal.cafe to
be a witness again ft himfelf,
nor be deprived of liber
ty, or property, without due
procels of law ; nor shall pri
vate property be taken for
public use without jufl: com
pensation.
ARTICLE VIII.
In all criminal prosecuti
ons, the accused shall enjov
the right to a speedy and
public trial, by an impartial
jury of the state and diftrift
wherein the crime shall have
jeen committed, which dil
rift shall have been previ
jufly ascertained by law,
jr.d to be informed of the na
ure and cause of the accufa
ion ; to be confronted with
he witnesses against him ; to
lave compulsory process for
obtaining witnesses in his fa
vour and to have the affis
ance of counsel for his de
fence.
ARTICLE IX.
In suits at common lav/,
where the value in contro-
I'erfy fliall exceed twenty
dollars, the right of trial by
iii\ ill.ill be prcfervtd . arid
no fa£t, tried by a jury shall
jc otherwise re-examined in
any court of the United
States, than according to the
rules of the common law.
ARTICLE X.
Excessive bail shall not be
required, nor excessive fines
imposed, nor cruelandunufu
*l punishments inflifcted.
ARTICLE XI.
The enumeration in the
:onftitution, of certain rights,
hall not be construed to de
iv or dii'parage others re
fined by the people,
ARTICLE XII.
The powers not delegated
to the United States by the |
:onftitution, nor prohibited
-3y it to the ffates, are refer
red to the states refpe&ively
or to the people.
. j
. . AMENDMENTS ratified.
MaSS ' 3456789 10 11 13
JSTii-d ; 2 J1«J; !»'• " '■
Connecticut 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1D , x , 2
New-York 1 Q , c c „ o
New-Jerky t 3JJg?B 9,° x t , 2
Penniylvania 1 IJf6JI 2"" ' "
Delaware 2 '° 11 12
y. ar >: land >*3 45 6 8 ? ;; ;;
:: i{l s s! ■• ■■ ■■
c r , .• l> 7"oion 12
3. Laronna i2Q,irfi_u'
Georgia 3 4 5 6 ' 8 9 10 j 1 12
N. Hampshire, Jan. 25, 1790
Vermont, Nov. 3, u l 79 l
Rhode-Island, June, 17go
N. York, March 27, 17Q0
N. Jersey, August 3, '790
Pennsylvania, Mar. 10, 1790
Delaware, Jan. 28, *79°
Maryland, Dec. ya,
Virginia, Dec. 15, 1791
N. Carolina, Dec. 22, 1785
S. Carolina, Jan. 19, 1 7Q0
•
I _____
N Hampshire, Jan. 25, 1790
Vermont, Nov. 3, 1791
Rhode-Island, June, 1790
N Yoik, March 27, 1790
N Jersey, August 3, 1790
Pennsylvania, March 10 1790
.Delaware, Jan. 28, 1790
Maryland, Dec. 19, 1789
Virginia, Dec. 15, 1791
N Carolina, Dec. 22, 1789
S Carolina, Jan. 19 *790
N Hampshire, Jan. 25 1790
Vermont Nov. 3 1 79 1
Rhode-Island, June, 1790
N York, March 27, 1790
N Jersey, August 3, 1 790
•Pennsylvania, Mar. 10, i 790
Delaware, Jan. 28, 1790
Maryland, Dec. 19, 1789
Virginia, Dec. 15, 1791
N Carolina, Dec. 22, 1789
S Carolina, Jan. 19, 1790
N Hampshire, Jan. 25 1790
Vermont, Nov. 3, 1791
Rhode-Island, June, 1790
N York, March 27, 1790
N Jersey, August 3, 1790
.Pennfylv. March io, 1790
Delaware, Jan. 28, 1790
Maryland, Dec. 19, 1789
Virginia. Dec. 15, 1791
N Carolina, Dec. 22, 1789
S Carolina, Jan. 19, ijg o
N Hampshire, Jan. 25, 1790
Vermont Nov. 3, 1791
Rhode-Island, June, 1700
N York, March 27, 17Q0
N Jersey, August 3, 1790
Pennfylv. March 10, 1790
Delaware. Jan. 28, 1790
Maryland, Dec. 19, 1789
Virginia, Dec. 15, i 7qi
N Carolina, Dec. 22, 1789
S Carolina, Jan. 19, *709
N Hampshire, Jan. 25. 1700
Vermont, Nov. 3, ' 179!
Rhode-Island, June, 1790
N York, March 27, 1790
N Jersey, August 3, 175 c
Pennfylv.. March 10, 1790
Delaware, Jan. 28, 1790
Maryland, Dec. 19, 178')
Virginia, Dec. 15, 1791
N Carolina, Dec. 22, 1789
Carolina, Jan. 19, *79^
AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES. •
\t the firft Seflion, begun and held at the city of
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania
on Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
Ah ACT relative to the EleElion of a Pre
sident and Vice-President of the
United States, and declaring the Officer
whoJhall aEI as Prefidtnt in cafe of Va
cancies in the Offices both of President and
Vice- Pref dent.
BE it enabled by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the Uni
ted States of America, in Congress assembled,
That except in cafe of an ele&ion of a
President & Vice-President of the Unit
id States, prior to the ordinary period as
hereinafter fpecified, ele&ors lhall be
appointed in each state for the elc&i
---m of a President and Vice-President of
'he United States, within thirty four
lays preceding the firft Wednesday
in December, ©ne thousand seven hun
ired and ninety two, and within thirty-
Four days preceding the firft Wednes
day in December in every fourth year
succeeding the lafteleftion, which elec
tors shall be equal to the number of Se
nators and Representatives, to which
:he fevcral states may by law be entitled
it the time, when the President and
Vice-President, thus to be chol'en,
[hould come into office : Provided al
vays, 1 hat where no apportionment of
Representatives (hall have been made
ifter any enumeration, at the time of
rhufing cleftors, then the number of
Sectors fhalf be according to the exili
ng apportionment of Senators and
Representatives.
And be it further enacted, That the
ileftors 111 all meet and give their votes
an the said firft Wednesday in De
rember, at such place in each state as
hall be directed, by the legislature
:hereof; and the ele&ors in each state
hail make and lign three certificates of
ill the votes by them given, and shall
ieal up the fame certifying on each that
i lift of the votes offuch state for Pre
sident and Vice President is contained
•herein and shall by writing under their
lands, 01 under the hands of a majority
A appoint a perlon to take
:harge ot and deliver to the President
)f the Senate, at the feat of govern
nent before the firft Wednesday in
January then next ensuing, one of the
'aid cei tificatesj and the said electors
hall forthwith forward by the post—
office to the President of the Senate, at
he feat of government, one other of
he said certificates, and shall forthwith
-aufe the other of the said certificates,
:o be delivered to the judge of that'
diftrift in which the said ele&ors shall
ilfemble.
And be it further enaEled, That the ex
:cutive authority of each state shall
.aufe three lifts of the names of the
:leftors of such state to be made and
certified and to be delivered to the elec
tors on or before the said firft Wednes
day in December and the said electors
lhall annex one of the said lifts to each
of the lifts of their votes.
And be it further enaEled, That if a lift
of votes, from any state shall not have
been received at the feat of government
on the said firft Wednesday in January
that then the Secretary of State shall
lend a special melTenger to the district
judge in whose custody such lift shall
have been lodged, who shall forthwith
transmit the fame to the feat of govern
ment. ,
And be it further enaEled, That Con
gress shall be in feflion on the second
Wednesday in February, one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-three, and on
the lecond Wednesday in Februarv suc
ceeding every meeting of the electors,
the said certificates, or so raanv of
Numb. 39.them as fliall have been received, shall then
be opened, the votes counted, and the per
sons who (hall fill the offices of President
nnd Vinj-Prefiutnt ascertained and declar
ed, agreeably to the Confiitution.
And be it ffrthir enackd, That in cafe there
shall be 110 President of the Senate at the
feat of government on the arrival of the
persons entrusted- with the lifts of the vote;
of the electors, then fiich persons shall de
liver the lift; of votes in their custody intc
the office of the Secretary of State, to be
fafely kept and delivered over as foona
maybe to t'ie President of the Senate.
And be it further ena&ed, That the person?
appointed by the electors to deliver the
lifts of votes to the President of the Senate,
shall be allowed on the delivery of the said
lifts twenty-five cents for every mile of the
estimated distance by the inoft usual road,
from the place of meeting of the electors,
to the feat of government of the United
States.
Andb: it further enacted, That if any per
son appointed to deliver the votes of the
electors to the President of the Senate, fliall
after accepting of his appointment neglecl
to perform the services required of him by
this act, he shall forfeit the sum of one
thousand dollars.
And be it further enaEled, That in cafe oi
removal, death, resignation or inability
both of the President and Vice-Prefidenl
of the United States the President of the
Senate pro tempsre and in cafe there ftial
be no President of the Senate, then the
bpeaker of the House of representatives,
for the time being shall ast as President o!
the United States until the disability be re
moved or a President fliall be elected.
And be it further enaEled, That whenever
the offices of President and Vice-Prefidenl
fliall both become vacant, the Secretary oi
State shall forthwith cause a notification
thereof to be made to the executive of eve
ry ftate,and fliall also cause the fame to be
publifiied in at least one of the newspa
pers printed in each state, fpecifying thai
electors of the President of the Unitec
States shall be appointed or chosen in the
several states within thirty-four days pre
ceding the firft Wednesday in December
then next ensuing : Provided, There shall
be the space of two months between the
date of fiich notification and the said firft
Wednesday in December but if there ihall
not be the space of two months between
the date of such notification and the firft
Wednesday in December and if the term
for which the President and Vice-Presi
dent last in office were elected shall nol
expire on the third day of March next en
suing, then the Secretary of State fliall fpe
cifyln the notification that the electors Ihall
be appointed or chosen within thirty-four
days preceding the firft Wednesday in De
cember in the year next ensuing withiii
which time the electors (hall accordingly be
appointed or chosen, and the electors shall
meet and give their votes o'i the said firft
Wednesday in December and the procee
dings and duties of the said electors and
others shall be pursuant to the direction;
j.refcribed in this act.
And be itfurther enafteif, That the only e
vidence of a refufal to accept, or of a resig
nation of the office of Prelident or Vice-
President, shall be an instrument in writing
declaring the fame and fubferibed by the
person refufing to accept or resigning as the
cafe may be and delivered into the office
of the Secretary of State.
And be it further enacted. That the terrr
of four years for which a President anc
Vice-President shall be elected fliall in al
cases commence on the fourth day oi
March next succeeding the day on which
the votes of the electors fliall have beer
given.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of the
House of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United States, and President
of the Senate.
Approved, March the ftrfl, 1792.
G. Washington, President of the
United States.
PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, March 7.
A petition was received and read, from
Elizabeth Lovell, relist of Robert Lovell,
deceased, praying to receive depreciation of
pay due to her said husband, as lieutenant
in the army of the United States.
A bill for reducing the rates of postage
on nevvfpapers, was read a second time,
and referred to a committee of the whole
House, on Friday next.
Mr. Page, from the committee appoint
ed, reported a bill, to enable John Church
man to prosecute certain o ifervations for
the discovery of the variation of the Mag
netic Needle ; —and also a bill encreafiiig
the penalties for copying charts, maps, &c.
—which were read a firit time.
Mr. Vining presented a memorial, frgned
with the names of near sixty refpeftable
merchants of this city, m oppofitien to the
memorials lately prefenteJ from the mer
chants of New-York and Philadelphia,
who trade to India and China.'—Referred
with the two I ast mentioned,to the commit
tee of the whole on the state of the Union.
The House took up the amendments,
prupofed by the Senate, to the " Bill for
the relief of certain widows, orphans, inva
lids,-and other persons;" and after having
considered the fame, agreed to some, and
disagreed to others.
A resolution some time since laid on the
table, was then called up,—viz.
" Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury be directed to report to the House
the ways and means, by which, in his opinion,
the additional sums, neceflary for the pub
lic service, ought to beraifecl."
This resolution gave rife to a warm and
animated debate, which continued to a late
hour, when the House, without taking the
question —Adjourned.
Thursday, March 8.
A bill to amend the ast for the encou
ragement of learning by securing the copies
of maps, charts, and books, to the authors,
Bcc. was read a second time, and ordered
to be committed to a committee of the
whole on Wednesday next.
A bill to enable John Churchman to pro
secute certain observations and discoveries
relative to the northern Magnetic point,
was read the second time, and ordered to
be committed to a committee of the whole
on Monday, the 19th instant.
Mr. Sedgwick, from the committee, tc
whom was referred the memorial of the
directors of the Ohio company of aifociates,
made a report, which was read, and order
to be committed to a committee of the
whole House on Tuesday next.
Several petitions were read, praying for
compensations, renewal of certificates, &c.
which were ordered to lie on the table.
A petition of Henry Laurens, of Charles
ton, South-Carolina, was read, praying that
a claim presented, and referred to the Secr
etary at War, at the last fellion of Congress,
and by him reported on, may be decided on
before the adjournment of the House for
the present fellion.—Refer; d to Meilieurs
Smith, (S.C.) White, and Clarke, tore
port thereon.
The House then resumed the confidera
don of the motion made yesterday, " that
the Secretary of the Treasury be directed
:o report to this House, his opinion of the
aelt mode for railing the additional supplies
requisite for the ensuing year," and the
:jueltion beingput whether the Hou.'e agree
0 the fame, it was resolved in the affirma
tive —Yeas 31, Nays 27.
Friday, March 9.
A message in writing was received frntn
:he Prelident of the United States by Mr.
Lear his Secretary ; as followeth,
United States, March 9th, 1792.
Gentlemen of the Senate
and oj the House of Repreftntahves,
I now lay before you a general account
•endered by the Bankers of the United
Jtatei at Amsterdam, of the payments the)
lad made, between the ift of July 1790 and
1791, from the fund deposited in their hand;
:'or the purposes of the ast providing the
neans of intercourse between the U.nitec
States and foreign nations, and the balance
•emaining in their hands, together with t
etter from the Secretary of State on the
übjeft.
GEO. WASHINGTON.
The letter and account referred to in the
laid mefl'age, were read and ordered to lie
on the table.
In committee of the whole on the bill de
daring the alfent of Congress to certain ast:
:>f the States of Maryland, Georgia, anc
Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations
ivhich impose a small duty on tonnage foi
he purpose of clearing obllruftions in the
lavigation ofthofe States.—Mr. W. Smitl
n the chair.
A motion was made by Mr. Giles to strike
3ut the firft clauie, which declares the as
ent of Congress to the law of Maryland :
ifter some debate, in which the motion wa:
"upported by Mr. Giles, Mr. Gooelhue, anc
Vlr. Gerry ; and opposed by Mr. Seney.
Mr. Sterrett, Mr. Murray, Mr. Ames, Mr.
White, Mr. Niles, Mr. Wadfworth, and
\tr. Fitzlimons. —The motion was put, and
legatived ; the committee proceeded thro
he other feftions, and then reported the
>ill without amendment.
The blank for the continuance of the as!
vas tilled with three years—anel then it wa;
irderedthat tie bill be engrolled lor a thire:
eading.
The House took into coufideration the
•eport of the eommittee of the whole on
he petition of Catharine Greene.
A lengthy debate ensued, which continu
:d till a quarter after three o'clock—anel
he House adjourned without a decision.
CHARLEST ON, Feb. 2 j.
Dn'Thurfday arrived here in the sloop
1 hree Sifters, from New-Providence, Mr.
David Porter, master of the schooner Poliy,
jf Baltimore, on his return to that port.
The following account taken from the Ba
jama Gazette, will disclose the elifaltrous
?vents which befel him, and his crew.
" Friday, November ir, 1791, failed
from Baltimore in the Schooner Polly, be
longing to Mr. James Clarke, merchant of
said place, bound for New-Orleans. —On
the 16th, cleared the Capes, and until the
19th, laid to, having a severe gale of wind
atN. W. On the 26th made Cat-Island,
and at 6 P. M. hove to, with the ffiip's
head to the eastward, wind blowing heavy
atN. byW. At 2P. M. on the morning
following, was alarmed by the veflel link
ing. To my surprise, found ourselves a
midst a reef of rocks and breakers, the
night dark and a heavy sea from the N. by
W. Sometimes the veflel almost bare, but
with the lift of the sea drove over the reef in
three quarters of an hour, when an anchor
was let go. We now tried the pump, and
in an hour freed the veflel of \\ ater. At
daylight beheld the reef all around us, and
the]land about 2 miles and an half to leeward,
which was Little-Island ; at 7 A. M. got
under way, with the loss of the anchor ;
with much difficulty got thro' the reef, and
proceeded through the windward paflage.
The veflel proving very leaky, having con
trary winds, and the crew dilfatisfied, com
plaining of the infufficiency of the number
for the execution of the duty, being only
five and one of them afinall boy, on the se
cond of December, put into a port 011 the
north fide of Cuba, when we began toover
hawl our fliattered veflel ; we found the
leak to be under the step of the foremaft,
which was impollible to get at. On the
Bth, was in order to proceed, and at fnn
rife a small Spanish schooner, having five
men on board, came down and anchored
close to us. Three of her people came a
long fide, and asked for an ax to cut some
wood to put under hides, which I gave
them, and inadvertently permitted them to
come on board —After asking them some
questions, and their telling a pityful (lory of
being taken byaGuarda Costa a little time
before, all of a sudden, hangers, piltols and
knives were drawn by them. One of my
men was knocked down with the axe
which they had borrowed, another drove
overboard, and a third escaped by getting
into the hold. I was cut in Several places
of my jacket in endeavoring to escape ; at
last 1 surrendered and begged my life which
was given with seeming reluttance. They
then lashed our hands behind our backs for
a little time, when they drove us over into
the boat with fix pieces of meat, a small
keg of bread, and 110 water. I begged for
a few bottles ofßriftol ale of which I had
thirty dozen onboard, but was denied a sin
gle bottle. They robbed me of my quad
rant, books, watch, flioe and knee buckles.
In this manner were we forced from the
velt'el, taking no more clothes with me
than what I could put in my box. After
depriving me of a veflel and cargo worth ill
that place not less than 5000 dollars, a con
siderable part of the goods my own proper
ty! 1 begged to remain on board or to go
011 shore at the main, but was denied either.
We ranged along the coast, and at sun
down, arrived at a houfc where were a
few negroes. We remained there that
night, and in the morning purchafedof them
a tarpaulin for a boat's (ail, giving them,
in return, part of my clothes. We ranged
along the coast through mangroves and
founds unknown to us, much d.ftrefled by
ijjfefts, until the 12th, when to our joy and
relief we got 011 board of the sloop Nancy,
belonging to New Providence, and com
manded by William Sawyer, from whom
we found civil and humane treatment.
" Not being fatisfied 10 quit ihe coast without
endeavoring to obtain some recompence for my
vessel, on the 16th I returned with my boat, one
hand and the boy, the other two reftifing to go
to the Nivetas, where the seizure had been com
muted. Same people in a Sparnlh launch advi
sed me by no means to go to the town (Princi
pe) as I would certainly be murdered, that a
claim might be prevented. On the 20th, I got
lome lupplies, and went 111 pursuit of the Pro
vidence Hoop, but to our misfortune found her
to be gone, which added to our distress. as we
knew not well what to do. Our whole flock at
present was alb of jeiked beef, ten plantains, a
few craw-fifh, and half a tea-kettle of water,
which we used very sparingly. After remain
ing some days on the Cuba-Keys, part of the
lime living on 'irickly pear apples, and having
loft our flint and I.eel, and being without fire, we
were obliged to return to the coafl. After get
ting some luppliesfrom the negroes at the house
formerly mentioned, on the 23d set out, but
fortune favoring us, at fun down fell in with
Capt. John Miller, of New-Providence, who
gave us an invitation to remain on board his
Hoop, and we arrived at New-Providence on the
31ft of January."
ALBANY, March 1.
At a meeting of the flockholders of the
Albany Bank 011 Monday last, the follow
ing gentlemen were duly elected DIRECT
ORS, by plurality of votes.
Philip Schuyler, John Maley,
Abraham Tenbrceck, James Calchvell.
Steph. Van Renfl'elaer, John Stevenson.
Goldfbrow Bauyer, Stephen Lufli.
Jere. Van Renfl'elaer, Albe Pawling.
Cornelius Gleo, John Sanders.
Daniel Hale,
V arious letters from New-York inform,
that Mr. Jay will be ftipported by a very
large majority in the southern parts of the
state ; and if those in the northern part,
who are oppofedto the re-election ofGov-
Clinton, and were disposed to support
Judge Yates, will pretty generally unite in
the support of Mr. Jay, whose character
and abilities are unexceptionable in every
particular, there can be no doubt of his
lucceeding.
NEW-YORK March, 9.
At a meeting of the Directors of the
New-York Branch of the United States
Bank, held at the Bank 011 Wednesday e
vening, Philip Livingston, Esq. of this
city, was chosen President of that Institu
tion.—The Branch, we understand, will
Ihortly commence its operations.
On Wednesday arrived here, from Cape
May, Robert L. Steele, master of the brig
Wilhelmina,of Londonderry, who informs
that on the 23d of January, he failed from
New-London, bound to Dublin ; that in iix
hours after leaving land the brig fprurg
a leak, so that they were obliged to keep
both pumps going, Finding this to be the
cafe, they thought proper to stand to the
weltward to find a port of fafety. In this
situation they continued till the 28th, when
they came to anchor off Cape May, and in
four hours after anchoring the brig funk
when the Captain and crew took to the
boats, and in going ashore on the two miie
beach, the boats itove in the furf; they all
got fafe alhore. and remained three days in
this situation before they could get to any
house, and nothing to cover them but a few
wet fails: the people were very much froft
bitten, so much that three are supposed not
able to survive. The mailer has been verv
ill ever lince, but is now in a fair way of
recovery.
PHILADELPHIA.
March 12, 1792.
The navigation of the Delaware is now
clear to Trenton ; several river vessels ha
ving arrived from thence (ince Saturday.
A number of friendly Indians (it is said)
are expected in town every day, from the
Northern tribes of the Six Nations, to act
in concert with the army against the hostile
Tribes to the Weft ward.
London papers as late as the 10th of
January aftord the following intelligence—
That the resolute determination of Louis
the 16th, declaring all the German princes
enemies to France, who fhonld after the
15th of Jauuary countenance the aflembling
and arming of the French emigrants, had
cauied a serious sensation in all the coun
tries bordering on the Rhine. These petty
states, it was thought, would not expole
themselves to the resentment of France,
without affliranues of support f.om the
emperor. The Count de Vergennes, the
French miniiter at Coblentz, had received
his letter of recall. An oath was prepar
ing at the fame place, to be taken by all the
French emigrants, the substance of which
was,fidelity to -h: princes, and " an entire de
votion to their orders, for the glory and
interest of France."—Great preparations
for war were making throughout France.
The electorate was putting nfelf into a state
ol defence, and it was publicly announced
that imperial troops were to be cantoned in
the German villages, to secure the emi
grants from surprize.—To prevent the
French from having any pretext for inva
lion, the French princes and the emigrants
were to retire into the Landgraviate of
Heiie, and there aflemble their lorces.
The magistracy of Worms had written
refpeftfully to the King of France, that
they had ever conlidered the reception of
the emigrants among them only as an ast of
common hospitality—but, left his Majelly
lhould take it in ill part, they had given or
ders to the Prince or' Conde to quit Worms
with all his retinue of difaffected adherents.
The Prince Bilhop of Liege was amongst
the moil strenuous supporters of the Ex-
Princes, supplying thein with every neces
sary for war, and promising still more. The
government of the Liegiois had forbid the
lale of Montesquieu's Spirit of laws and
Voltaire's queltions on tne Encyclopedia—
All the emigrants in that state were order
ed to be equipped by the 10th of January.
His Holiness tlie Pope had been very ill of
an apoplettic fit, but was recovering—On
:he 26tn of December, a letter had been re
vived at Coblentz from the Emperor to
:he French Princes, "alluring them of his
nolt ample affiltance—and that he had given
orders to Gen. Bender to line the iron
tier" ; the authenticity of the letter was
however suspected.
A (trift look-out was kept in the chan
nel for the (Britilh) Swallow packet, from
India, which it was supposed would br.ng
the most important accounts ever received
from that country ; it being expected ia
England the present campaign would de-t
termine the fate of Ser ngapatam and the
Myzor country, Lord Cornsvallis's army,
and the whole of the Englilh territory on
Coromandel coast—The French emigrants
at Coblentz were preparing to retire t<t
Hanau and the Margraviate of Anfpacli
but that the emperor's notification to thei
elector, " That he conlidered even the
threat of invading that electorate as anhof
tilityonthe part of the French," hadfuf
pended their resolution. —ThatM. de bainteCroix, successor orM. de as mi
nister of France at Coblentz, had nearly
been publicly infnlted by the emigrants ir
that city—the elector, however, and M. de
Artois interposed, and infilled that the
Emigrant Ihould give a proof of their ref
peft for the king by conducting themselves
with proper deference towards his miniftet
& c.—The laie receipt of the abort advices but pre
vented vs giving them tn detail.
The focietv for promoting the improve
ment of roads and inland navigation in the
slate of Pennsylvania, have petitioned the
legislature of the f; me, that a company be
incorporated for the opening a permanent
navigation of the river Delaware and it:
branches, from the falls at Trenton to the
• northern boundary of the Hate ; and thai
mother company be incorporated for com
pleting the navigation of the river Schuyl
kill, from the lower falls to the heads of its
fjveral branches, as far as may be found
practicable. In the former of those obje&s
it is believed the state of New-Jersey will
unite; and probably the Hate of New-
York, where the branches of the Delaware
enter the territories of the lalt mentioned
slate.
The value of the exports from the port
of Baltimore during the year 1791, isflated
at one million, seven hundred eigbty-twc
thonfand, eight hundred and sixty-one dol
lars —The value of goods, wares, and mer
chandize imported during the fame perioc
is fixed at two millions, fix hundred anc
forty-eight thonfand, eight hundred anc
eighteen dollars and sixty seven cents. —Tc
the distriCt of Baltimore belong 16,871 ton!
of Ihipping employed in foreign navigation;
and about one hundred fail employed in the
coasting trade, which may be averaged al
40 tons each—During the year 1791, 26.88)
tons of American vefiels, and 18,664 dittc
of foreign, were entered at the above men
tioned port.
The Dismal Swamp (North-Carolina'
company have iflued proposals for cutting
a canal from the waters of Flizabeth rivet
in Virginia to those of Pafquotank, in North
Carolina, communicating with Gurrotnck
and Albemarle founds. The length of this
canal will be about lrxteen miles. The
country through which it is to pass is flat
and swampy, free from flones and covered
with he-ivy wood ; the canal is to be 32
feet in width and about 8 feet in depth,
which will enable boats, not drawing more
than three feet, to navigate this canal in the
dryeft seasons.— The main object of the ca
nal is said to be the draining of the Great
Dismal Swamp, which is ten miles a
cross. and about ten leagues in length ;
this vamp, when the canal is finifhed.
may be easily converted into an immense
rice lieid of the best quality of soil.—Propo
sals are to be received no longer than the
ninth day of April next. By means of this
canal a vail inland navigation will be open
ed from the Chesapeake, through the whole
of Albemarle and Pamlico fouuds, down tc
Newbern.
The latefl Fnglifii papers teem with ac
counts of the success of Lord Cornwallis it
India. Other accounts, received by the
■way of France, represent his Lordlhip anc
ippoo Saib to be manoeuvering much ir
the fame manner a certain noble Lord die
with General Greene in 1781 in the desert;
of Carolina and Virginia. Lord Cornwal
lis, it is said, was sent to India to wipe of
the stain contratfed at York, in America-
It would be hard indeed, after being cap
turedbythe rebels of America, if his Lord
flip should fufFer a similar fate from the In
dians of Alia ; which from impartial infor
mation appears not unlikely to be the cafe
Bowles, the pretended Indian chief, whr
has been for some time part in Eaft-Floridj
and Georgia, fomenting discontents amongfl
the Greek Indians; when at Nova Scotia,
on his way to Fngland, drew bills to a vcrj
considerable amount on the Britilh govern
ment, for Indian purposes. These bill;
have been punctually paid. " There i:
therefore no room to doubt (favs a New-
Hampfliire paper) that General'Bowles i:
aflilred in his present operations, and expe£h
to be supported in them by the governmem
of Great-Britain." It is also said tha
Bowles keeps up a very conflant correspon
dence with Lord Dunmore at the island o:
New-Providence, from whence he can ai
any time procure ftipplies of every kind foi
his nefarious purposes.
A committee of the Senate of the Unitet
States have reported in favour of ereftinc
a light-house on Montauk point; am
brought in a bill for that purpose on Tues
day last, which was read and ordered a se
cond reading.
The Secretary of the Treafurv, we are
informed, has diretfed all the co'lleflors oj
the revenue to receive no other notes but
those of the Bank of the United States, anc
to pay all the monies they may receive intc
that Bank and its branches. Measures are
also taken to jnake that institution and its
dependencies thedepolitary of all the pub
lic monies and the channel through which
they are to flow in all payments from the
public for the interelt of the debt, salaries
to officers, &c. which will add immensely
to the specie capital of the Bank, as the
public money will lie frequently uncalled
"or, a conflcferable t'.ffl?, v.-hife the arrange
ment will afford a convenience to the go
'/ernment, and to its creditors. The Se
cretary has likewise subscribed for the fiv<
:hourfand lhares allotted to the government
The noble spirit of Canal making ha
Pervaded every part of the Union. A com
pany has been incorporated for the purpofi
as connecting Cooper and Santee rivers bj
i canal of one and twenty miles in length
n South Carolina. The sum supposed t<
>e neceffury to complete this extenfivi
ivork, is 55,620!. sterling. Twenty-fiv<
jer cent, are allowed by the legislature ii
:olls for all monies advanced by ltockhold
:rs.
A mode is mentioned in a London papei
>f recovering persons from Fits by prelim;
:heroot of the thumb nail of the person as'
"ected very hard with the thumb nail o:
mother person. Upon a relapse, the oper
ition is to be repeated till the fits cease
"onvulfive fits of every kind are laid to b<
■fteftually cured, for the present, by thi
imple meth.od.
A ludicrous performance appears in the
Delaware Gazette of the third instant.
.vhereirr the claims of the Penx family,
n England, to any territories in that State
ire treated with contempt—it being inti-
Tiated that claims to- lands in the moor
might be urged, at this time, with as mac!
propriety, as any pretensions by that familj
:o pofl'eflions in the slate of Delaware, un
ier the authority of a Royal Grant.
, One of the lad received Levden papers men
ions the renovation of the Gazette de France
i court paper that had been printed at Paris so
nore than one hundred and fifty years pad.—
[t was always known merely as a paper o
business, had all the flern features of defpo
ism, and for the whole of the above mentionet
on R period had never once been known to re
ax the severe brow of care, by the introdufliot
>f any thing bordering upon amusement o
ileafantry. —It appeared to have yielded its las
;alp with the downfall ofdefpotic authority; it
onfequence of which it was discontinued form
nonths, but is now resuscitated, htving under
>one a conveifion to new principles upon th<
ame motive, perhaps, as the monarch.
From a Correfpendent..
I OT3SERVK in your lalt National Gazctt
i mistake in a paragraph under thf
Philadelphia head. There is no fuchregi-
Tient in France as the Welfh-lnjh. Tilt
roops commonly known in France by the
lame of the Injh Brigade consist of three re
giments (Berwick's, Walfh's, and Dillon's
>flicered, for the mejl part, by Irishmen, 01
he defcendents of those Irifii, who tool
-efuge in France with King James ll.—
The ranks are filled not with Irilhmen, bu
with a motley mixture coliected from al
he nations on the continent of Europe
md speaking a greater variety of language
:han were used at the building of Babel.
Extra& of a-lctter from N. Providence (via. Char
Iejlon) dated fan. eg.
" Since the firft settlement of this island, n<
person now living recolle£ls to have experience!
in equal degree of cold v.-ith that which has beet
elt the present winter. The north-well wind
lave almost continually blown from the conti
lent with unparalleled leverity, so as to rende
fires as neceflary mour houfrs as in latitudes fa
more northerly ; ancf although we have not ac
lually seen ice, the degree of cold has been equa
[hereto, at leaf! if I may judge from my owt
>.nd my neighbors' feelings. Having refidet
nere, myfelf, only nine years, I cannot positive
ly vouch for the truth of the assertion, but olt
icttlers lay the winters are becoming colder ant
colder; which circumstance, if true, I hold no
?afy to be accounted for.—As to other matter:
we are all peace and quiet, but not much accef
ion of new inhabitants : Abacois rather on th<
lechne, and when the wood is entirely cm
iwav, the value of that island will be greatly di
ninifhed. A settlement has been made on Cat
'fland, which promiles well ; and many of th<
teys and smaller iilands begin to be cultivatec
a ith some degree of success in several parts
A. number of inhabitants are established or
where, lfthefoilis intolerable
Door, there is nevertheless an excellent filher;
it almost all seasons, and something now ant
hen to be made by wrecking. Reports her<
lay, that a numberof fugitive negroes have beer
recently seen on Great Heneago, Atkins' Keys
and other neighboring islands, who, it is no
jnlikely, have ound means to escape there fron
St. Domingo, in dread ot the vengeance of thi
:xpefted armament from old France."
Extrad of a letter, dated Marietta [on the Ohio
fanuary, l, 1792.
" Nothing material has transpired since mj
ast, the savages not having shewn themfelve
ince the battle ; we are threatened, however
with their appearance in the spring, and if pof
fible, with redoubled ferocity. Most of the fet
dements on thel'e waters are in a very defence
lefsfituation, and mull either be abandoned, or
what is more diflretling, incur the hazard o 1
lavage barbarity. "1 he latter indeed will be in
evitable by many families from their inability tc
effett a removal in the depth of winter. Thii
Is the only place which is' rendered in any de
gree tenable, and even here our force is too in
adequate, and but illy prepared for service.
" I particularly lament the situation of Bell
pree, a fettlejient about twenty miles below,
ronfifting of some refpr&able families that have
emigrated to this country, and whose exertions
have been indefatigable in rendering it the moll
improved of any upon-the Ohio. You may
conceive some idea of the flourifhing condition
ofßellpree, when I inform you that in paffinj
that place, we enumerated 400 hogs in pens,
fattening for the fall slaughter; a number quite
inconsiderable when compared to that which
was then ranging in the woods. We bad alfc
the pleasure of viewing flacks and cribs of grair
:o the amount of many thousand bulhels, anc
were informed of one individual, who had con
trasted with the French agent for the sale o
4000 bushels of corn, of his own growth in out
/ear. The vegetables indeed were innumera
ale, and our soldiers fulfered to take a:
many of them, gratis, as fubfifled them foi
bme weeks.
" I could not but remark with emotions
'ympathy, the contrafl which was observable ir
he inhabitants of this place when I it
jreviousto the aflion, and at my return to i'
übfequent to that event. .At the former period,
ill was hilarity and cheerfalnefs; but the afpef
s now materially changed, and the marks ol
lefpondency are every where visible."
Mulattoes of St. Domingo,
ARE the motley breed of land-holders, gen
Icmen adventurers, parsimonious merchants,
actors, clerks, managers, and plantation-over
eers from Europe. The progenitors of tnii
fellow tribe were generally persons who camt
3ut from France, and other pans of Europe, tc
make fortunes rapidly, return, and spend therr
jnder their native skies. During their flay ir
;his delightful lfland, the pursuits of avarice wen
lot fufficiently powerful tr. reflrain them wholl)
rom more natural pursuits. No immediate ob
|efts of gratification presented but the enflavec
African female, who was therefore adopted vtci
r ponfa, and while Ate planted canes on th<
mountain, or tended a herd of goats in the val
ley, contributed to people the island with a pro
geny, who were neither European nor Afriean
ind felt no attachment to either, further thar
nterefl or the more immediate ptofpefls of ad
vantage dictated.
Natural affection had flill some influence
where united parental fondnefs had been ren
kred extremely weak from the unequal condi
:ion of the progenitors. The mulattoes wen
generally excused from the labors of the field—
hey were house-keepers >, and clerks ; they were
house-boys, and poultry-men; they were waiter:
at table and taverns; they were filhermen
cooks, and turn-spits ; they were even bounc
aut to mechanical trades, and in general wer<
every thing in the line of domeflic employment
except field-flaves, who are reckoned the mof
degraded class in the islands, and absolutely pla
ced upon a level with the mules that turn the
cattle mills.
Many of these mulattoes, of promising parts
bad an education bellowed on them by no mean:
despicable. They could read and write anc
had some acquaintance with figures. Educa
tioil always engenders discontent where then
is not universal equality of condition. In confe
rence of acquired knowledge, they have foi
half a century pall been aspiring' to equal privi
leges with the whites; and we have seen, with
in these two years, that rather than not enjov
them, they allied themselves to the blacks
.vhom they heretofore held in contempt, anc
have carried fire and sword throughthe territo
ries of the white inhabitants.
There is every reason to suppose, from the
present example of their enormities, that the
future coodi'ion of the mulattoes in the lfland:
will be changed for the worl'e, as every Europear
jovernment will find its interest in
hem (especially if a general prohibition of the
Have trade fi.ould rake place) to a situation thai
will not afford the fame opportunities as hereto
ore, for exciting and aiding the infurre&ion ol
he blacks, or corrcfponding with the Spaniards.
Perhaps such a Hep (the equalizing the con
dition of the mulattoes and negroes) might beat
er.ded with some advantages. The Island)
lave not hitherto been considered as fixed and
ultimate places of residence for the generality
'f the whites. It was only (as observed above]
to make a fortune in a few years and away, thai
hey seemed to have failed thither at all, and il
:hey retained real estates, for the molt part they
:njoyed the revenues in Europe. This condu£l
has ever been encouraged by the colonizing
countries in Europe, as it secured colonial de
pendence. When once the colonial whites
begin to consider the Weft—lndies as their
only proper home, a legitimate offspring ol
their own gradt will ensue, who may in time,
11 has happened on this continent, render some
of the insular governments independent of Eu
ropean supremacy; and grant those natural
rights of man to the negroes and mulattoes,
which they will in vain look for from the juflice,
the humanity, or the philofophv of Europe.
March 11.
A description of the Dijmal Swamp in Virginia.
THE Dismal is a very large swamp, or
bog, extending from north to south near 3c
miles; and from east to weft, at a medium,
about 10: It lies partly in Virginia, and
partly in North-Carolina. No less than
five navigable rivers, besides creeks, rife out
of it 5 whereof two run into Virginia, viz.
the south branch of Elizabeth, and the south
branch of Nanfemond rivers ; and three in
to North-Carolina, namely, North-River,
North Weft River and Perquimonds. All
these hide their heads, properly speaking.
in the Dismal, there It'ng nofigns of" them'
ibove ground. For this reason there mult
be plentiful fiibterraneous stores of water
to feed so many rivers, orelfe the foil is re
olete with this element, drained from the
ligher land that surrounds it. that it can
ibundantly afford these supplies. This rs
noft probable, because the ground of this
wamp is a mere quagmire, trembling un
ler the feet of those that walk upon it, and
:very impression is instantly filled with wa
:er. We could run a long flick up to the
lead, without refinance ; and whenever a
ire was made, so foop as the crust of leaves
tnd trash were burnt through, the coals
unk down into a hole, and were extin
;uii'hed.
The skirts of the Dismal towards the ealt,
ire overgrown with reeds, ten or twelve
eet high, interlarded every where with
trong bamboe briers, in which the men's
eet were perpetually entangled. Among
hefe, grows here and there a cypress, or
.vhite cedar, which last is commonly mif
aken for the juniper. Towards thefouth.
;nd of it is a very large tract of reeds, with
jut any trees growing amongst them, which
3eing constantly green, and waving in the
ivind, is called the green sea. In many
>arts, especially on the borders, grows an
?ver-green Ihrub very plentifully, that goes
jy the name of the gall bu(h. It bears a
>erry which dyes a black colour, like the
;all of an oak from whence it borrows its
lame.
Near the middle of the Dismal the trees
;row milch thicker, the cyprefles as well
is the cedars. These being always green,
ind loaded with very large tops, are much
:xpofed to the wind and easily blown down,
n this boggy place, where the foil is foft.
•nd consequently affords but slender hold
or the roots that shoot into it. By thefe
he pailage is in most places interrupted,
hey lying piled in heaps, and riding on one
mother ; nor is this all, for the snags left in
hem point every way, and require the
utmost caution to clamber over them.
'Tis remarkable that towards the heart
jf this horrible defart, no beast or bird ap
aroaches, not so much as an fnfeft, or a
reptile. This mnft happen, not so much
from the moisture of the oil, as from the
?verlafting lliade occasioned by the thick
hrubs and bushes, so that the friendly
seams of the fun can never penetrate them,
:o warm the earth : nor, indeed, do any
jirds care to fly over it, any more than
:hey are said to do over the lake Avernus,
or fear of the noisome exhalations that rife
From this valt body of dirt and nattinefs.
These noxious vapours infect the air round
lbout, giving agues and other distempers to
:he neighboring inhabitants.
On the western border of the Dismal is a,
sine swamp. above a mile in breadth, great
:>art of which is covered with water knee-
Jeep : however, the bottom is firm, and
:hough the pines growing upon it are very
rail, yet are they not ealily blown down by
the wind : so that the people waded thro'
this part of it without any other hindrance
but what the depth of the water gave them.
With all these disadvantages the Dismal is
11 many places plpafant to the eye (though
Jifagreeable tothe other senses) because of
:he perpetual verdure, which makes every
"eafon look like the spring, and every month
iffume the ai'peft of May.
PRICE or STOCKS.
Sl* per cents, per £. . 24 y 2 .
Three per cents, - . j
Deferred fix per cents, - 14J6.
Final Settlements - 20/6.
Indents, ... , 3 y 9 .
Bank stock i-i fliares, SS—per cent, advance.
Meteorological Observations.
March, 1792.
D. H Bar. Thcr. Wind. Weatk
Monday, 5. 7 29. 4 g 6 N . Rai „
g 9- 43 W. Cloudy.
Vucfday, 6. 7 29.75 3J S .W. TwT
2 29. 8 4q w.N.w do.
! Vednefday, 7. 7 29. 9 3, E.N.K. Fa r.
2 29 9 53 d O .
Thursday, 729. 9 S4 N .E. Omd^
«• 2 g g. 92 36 do. K.Sno.
Friday, 9.7 29. g . N . N . W^.
g 2 9' 9 49 N. do.
Saturday, 10. 7 29. 7 34 N.E.
I 29- 33 37 do. do.
Sunday, u. 7 09. 5 37 s w
2 29. 5 47 W. >: loudy.
R AN awa y Kdnefday ">Z ht '"ft, " Negro
Man, about twenty-three years old-, bad on a
tght coloured Jhort coat: took -with him a fair of
leather breeches and a fair of green fluff do. a bea
ver hat half -worn, narrow brim and dees crown :
a fair of boots ; flriped cotton and flit flocking,—
he is Jlim made—reads and writes a legible hand
has, lam informed, procured a pass and a certifi
cate of his being a free man. It ,s probable he will
endeavor to get en board fame urflel, either at this
place or New-York. He has a Jmall fore under hil
chin, occasioned by cutting out a wen. I wilt give
Ten Dollars reward for securing him, if in thiscity.
Twenty Dollars if taken in New-York, or any other
flace of the fame diflance, and pay all reafr.nable ex
fences.
ANDREW MOORE,
p,., , ... .. , Spruce-flreet, No. ill,
Fbilsdclpua, March 9, J792.The following Letters originated from the Poji
fctipt oj Ge.n. Sc. Clair Letter (See National
Gazette of Dec, 15 J and bis Letter explanatory
of that Fojffcriptf in the N. Gazette of 1 eb. C.
From the Carlif.e Gazette, of Feb. 29, i 792 *
Car life j Feb. 27.
Mr. Printer,
IT would have been a sweet ingredient in the
bitter cup 1 have drank in the loss ot General
Butler, had his memory remained without any
imputation in the campaign that has led to his
exit.—With refpett to his having received intel
ligence not communicated, the inclosed letters,
with which I am favored, will contribute to elu
cidate lam told it is further suggested, that
the troops for the campaign were unnecelTarily
delayed by General Butler at Pittfburg.--It is
forrowfui for me he exists not, to call for an en
quiry into it---but cannot help thinking, if his
correspondence with the Secretary at War is pro
duced, it will appear whether any delays were,
or what was the cause $ as it cannot be denied,
that the minifterat war received answers to his
letters from General Butler, by the return of
every post from Pittiburgh.
It has been a I'ecret struggle with me to fend
vou the enclosed, being under the necessity to use
Mr. Morgan's letter to me, as introducing it---
and to letting it appear it came to your paper from
onvfelf, being the wife of the unfortunate, and
so supposed partial to his memory.
MARY BUTLER.
Princeton, Feb. 16, 1792*
Dear Madam,
On the 9th instant, I did myfelf the honor to
write a letter to the Secretary at War, of which
the inclosed is a copy.
You are at liberty to make such use of it as you
think proper.
I am with great refpeft and esteem, Madam ;
•your most obedient humble servant.
3 JOHN MORGAN.
To Mrs. Mary Butler,
Spring-Mills, near Carlisle.
Profpeft (N. Jersey) Feb. 9th, 1792.
Sir,
THE gratitude I owe to one of the best and
bravest of men, who fell at my fide in a charge
on the enemy, the 4th of last November, and
vvhofe confidence and friendftiip was most grateful
to my heart, having commanded my attention:
to the care of those peculiarly dear to hirr
whilst living, I did not arrive in Philadelphia
from Fort-Waihington until Wednesday the jfl
in't* and my anxiety to fee my parents called mc
here without making an unnecelfary delay in th<
cicv. Since my arrival I have read with atten
tion his excellency Governor St. ClairVpoftfcripl
to his letter to you, dated Fort-Waihington, Nov,
9th, 1791, and his explanation of that P. S. b)
a letter to you dated the 29th of last month, ana
pub;ifhed in the Gazette of the United States, oj
the 4th in ft. both relating to information of im
portance, said to be communicated by Capt.
Slough to Gen. Butler in the night preceding the
a&ion, and not imparted by him to the Governorj
nor by any other person, until the army got back
to Fort-Washington.---It is not my intention,
fir, to enter into the views or design of his excel
lency in writing that P. S. nor to fay that had
Gen. Butler informed his excellency at the mo
ment Capt. Slough is laid to have made the re
port in qucftion, his excellency coukl not have
displayed his army in better order than it was, to
guard'againft the attack, or to have prevented the
route of it ; but, fir, it is my intention by this
letter to undcceive his excellency and you, by of
fering myfelf as an evidence to prove, so far as it
is possible to prove a negative, that the report ir
question was never made to General Butler, and
that he therefore had it not in his "power to in
form the commander in chief of it.—l not on!)
©tier myfelf as an evidence to prove this, but like
wise to prove positively, that the party sent out
under Capt. Slouch's command was not taken 01
intended to be taken from the right wing alone,
which formed the frontline, then under the ;m
---meciiate command of Gen. Butler 3 neither wa«
Capt. Slough, nor the party under him, oroerec
out by Gen. Butler, but by the Governor, ana
that without Gen. Butler being ever confulte*:
thereupon, nor did Cap:. Slough receive his or
ders from Gen. Butler, as fpec":ried> in his excel
lency's letter to you last mentioned. 1 not only
offer myfelf as an evidence in this business, but 1
conceive myfelf authoiifed to make use of the
names of others, my superiors, tor the famd pur
pose 3 and it is well known, Sir, in the armv,
that from the moment the report in question wa:
jfiift mentioned at Fort Washington, 1 contradict
ed it on the spot to the adjutant-general and to
others; and that I have made it my business to
do so on every proper occafion.—lt is my pride ski
well as my duty, thus to step forth in juftilication
of my deceased friend, from whom, or from whose
interest or connections I have not any thing to
hope, whose name and charader I only knew
from others until I was recommended to him by
officers 1 had served with and under, and more
particularly by my -worthy and ever to be lament,
ed deceased friend, Major Fergufon.—l have been
indeed honored in a particular manner with Gen.
Butler's friendftiip and confidence $ unoer him
every service to a man's country was made agree
able to the officer and to the private soldier.---
Kad he survived, fir, neither this, or other charges
lately brought forward, and which 1 also offer
myfelf as an evidence to disprove, would either
have been reported or gained credit : when his
excellency the President and jou shall knew that
I can have no expectation but of in
thus ftep;.>ing forward, and that I am fer.fible of
the conicquenccs, I you will do rne the jus
tice to believe that I know myfelf to be impelled
by a sense of honor alone.
I fubiftit to you the republication of this letter,
asjufticedue to Gen. Butler's memory—to his
family—to his friends—and to the public.—
On re-perusal of it, left it may be supposed to
intend a crimination of Governor St. Clair's ve
racity, permit me to add, that is not my inten
tion, but to andeceive him, you, and my country,
is to fass imposed upon him. I have indeeo
Paid, in oppcfition to Governor St. Clair's relation
:hat the party under Capt. Slough was nor taker
3r not intended to be taken from the right wing
alone, and that it was not ordered out by Gen.
Builer, as the Governor states, but by the Go
vernor himfelf: 1 fay so, fir, because the ordei
>f delire came regularly to me as brigade-majoi
>f the right wing, through the proper officer j ant
vithout tirft informing or consulting Gen. Butler.
complied so far as was required of the right
ving, and made him afterwards acquainted there -
vith, previous to the departure «f Capt. Slough,
vho I called into Gen. Butler's tent to drink a
;lafs of wine 5 there, in the presence and hearing
>f several gentlemen, Capt. Slough asked my ad
'ice in two or three particulars, and Gen. Eut
er, whole knowledge was infinitely superior tc
nine, answered him, and gave Capt. Slough pro
>er advice in some other particulars unajked.
This, fir, is the whole part Gen. Butler had 01
tnew in the business.—l find that one of Gen.
Butler's friends, long before my arrival in Fhi
adelphia, has addreficd a letter to the Governor
n the Federal Gazette, No. 1011, on this fubjeft,
»nd therein requests answers to several questions,
leceffary to the arriving at truth and
he contrary. —The Governor has answered two
>f them with his usual politeness and propriety;
jut left two others unnoticed, which, before Gen,
Butler't friends proceed in the invefligation 0:
.his business, it is of importance to them to be in
formed of, either by a publication or by a lettei
Co me, viz. the hour of the night in which Capt.
Slough is said to have made the report to Gen
Butler ; and 2dly, in whose prefentt he made it.
I have the honor to be with refpedi,
Sir, your mod obedient,
and most humble servant,
JOHN MORGAN, Ensign, if
U. S. Reg. late Brigade-Major to General Rich
aid Duller, deceased.
Kon. Henry Knox, Esq. Secretary of War.
TO THE PUBLIC,
I HAVE just seen a letter addrelfed to the Se
cretary at War, by ensign John Morgan, of tin
U. States regiment, in which Rafter paying
himfelf some pretty little coirrprhnents) he ofle;:
himfeif as an evidence to prove tkat I did
receive my orders from Gen. Butler on the even
ing previous to the defeat of our ar my $ and tha
I did not on my return to camp make my repor
to him Merely to contradict this would an
fwer no purpose, but 1 flatter myfeif that the af
fidavits of a number of the officers and gentlentei
of the army, directly contradicting what he has
affcrted, ?and explaining the whole ot the busi
ness, will convince the public that I did my dut;
like an honest man and a soldier, and that wha
he fays he will prove, is falfe. Some of the gen
tlemen, whose evidence in this cafe I fliall want
live at a diflance, ] must therefore beg the publii
to suspend their opinion on the lubjeft, till the;
can be interrogated, See.
I am the public's most humble servant
JACO 6 SLOUGH,
Late Capt. 3d U. S. regiment of levies.
3d March.
I DID myfeif the honor to 'vr'teto M 'jor-Gen
cral Knox, Secretary at War, the 9th of Fe
bruarv, on the fubjeft of his Excellency Governo
St. Clair's P.S. to his letter dated from FortWafti
ington the 9th of last November, and the Gover
nor's explanation of that P.S. by a letter date(
the 89th of January.—Seeing my letter publifliet
in several newspapers, with some remarks thereon
by captain Slough, I think it proper to mention,
that what J have atferted does not reft upon mi
testimony alone, as {halJ hereafter appear.
I could have wished that Capt. Slough, or th<
Governor, had ventured to afl'ert, as requeued ir
my letter of the 9th ult. the hour of the night ir
which the captain is said to have made the repori
to general Butler ; and in whose prcjence he mad<
it. Why the gentlemen decline answering :hef<
enquiries, I can only conje&ure ; but i think tha 1
open, candid, explicit answers to thrle fimpl<
quelUons, 'without Jludied delay, arc due to genera
Butler's friends, and to the public.
My following correspondence with the Secretarj
at War renders it improper for me to .ake furthei
notice of captain Slough's publication at present.
On any other occasion I might not take the liber
ty to publifli an official letter j but 011 this, 1 hold
myfeif excufeable.
War Department, Feb. 21ft, 1792.
Sir,
YOUR letter of the 9th instant was duly re
ceived, and has been submitted to the President ol
the United States, and flvewn to Major General
St. Clair. Although there is no desire of fup
prefiing the evidence you offer, to controvert tn€
(latement made by the commander in chief, yel
it is proper the fubjeft should be well investigated
ind considered; and in order to this, it may be
leceflary for you to repair to this city, which you
vill do as soon as convenient.
1 am, Sir,
Your humble ferv.int,
H. KNOX.
To Ensign John Morgan,
New-Jersey. (Copy.)
Indian Queen, Philadelphia, Feb. 25, 1792.
Sir,
] HAD not the honor to receive your letterda
ed the 21ft instant, acknowledging the receipt of
nine dated the 9th, until this moment} it was
etuined to me from Princeton by post, as I arri
ved in this city the day your letter was put into
he poft-office hene. On the 23d, in the morning,
I did m)felf the honor to wait upon you at the
War office, and as you was long particularly en
;aged, I took the liberty to leave my name and
juarters.
I cannot suppose, Sir, that you have any desire
.0 suppress my proposed evidence, in juftification
)f general Butler's honor j and as I am now in
:own, I will wait your pleasure to describe the
node in which the fubjeft fliall be invefligated,
loping tha: there may be no unnecellary delay,
for his fame has fullered too much already, from
;hc unjust report, publilhed by your authority,
through all the newspapers of t! e United States
Having had the honor of general Butler com
rciitted to my guardianfaip, by an ast ct Provi
dence, no sea s shall deter me to betray the facr.d
trust. I wjfii, Sir, your letter had placed it upon
this footing, and not as my dejire to controvert, the
(latement made by the commander in chiefs f->r whom
i have a proper refpedt : but, as you are plsaieJ
to make choice thereof, notwithstanding the de
:laration I made in my letter of the 9th inrtantj
I iubmit to it—Being with great lefpect,
Sir, your most obedient
and mcfi humble servant,
JOHN MORGAN, Ensign ift Uni
ted States regiment, late Brigade
Major to General Butler.
P.S. It may not be improper to inform you
hat having pledged my honor to Mrs. Butler, thai
I would pursue proper meafurcs for the juftifica
:ion of General Butler*i, in confcquence ot voui
lot having noticed my letter of the 9th instant.
is I flattered myfelf you would, 1 transmitted i
:opy of it to her, and one to his brothers, with mj
ilierty to make such use of it as they fliould think
>ioper.
JOHN MORGAN.
To the Hon. Major General Knox,
Secretary at War. (Copy]
General Knox rcquefis to fee Mr. Morgan al
>ne o'clock to-morrow.
Saturday evening, 25th February, 1792.
To Mr. Morgan, Indian Queen. (Copy]
Mr. Morgan will do himfelf the honour to wait
ipon General Knox agreeable to his request.
Sunday morning. (Copy)
To the Hon. Major General Knox.
In consequence of the above, I was honored by
Senerai Ktnox with a conference, in which I flat
:er myfelfwe were mutually fatisfied 5 ana I now
wait the mode to be prescribed in which the bufi
rcefs is to be investigated, when 1 pledge mylelf tc
luftify General Butler's honor, to the fatisfa&ior
Sf his friends and his country, whose faithful ser
vant he was. This alone is my objetf, and I toil
not desert it.
Would Captain Slough now name the officer:
and gentlemen of the army, whole affidavits h<
fays he will procure, to prove that he did make
the report to General Butler, &c. lam cf opi
nion that his friends would not need the testimo
ny of other gentlemen, had they no other. This
as a man of honor, I hop# he will do without de
lay* and mention the circumstances of the evi
dence. Candor and duty to the public, as wel
as justice to General Butler's friends, require it ol
hi in.
Was Captain Slough acquainted with military
duty, he would know that General Butler darec
not to have sent out a detachment for the purpo
ses fpecitied in the Governor's letter, without an
order from the commander in chief, any mort
than Captain Slough dared to have detached 01
gone with his own company without orders ; anc
the Governor will not fay that be ordered Genera
Butler to make the detachment. If then Genera
Butler was not ordered to make the detachment,
will any military man, or any other, believe thai
General Butler would have prelumed to give or
ders to that detachmen:? at a time too when ii
is well known he thought himfelf very indelicate
ly treated, if not insulted, by the Commander ir
Chief? Surely no : and Captain Slough must b<
a novice in discipline, if he thinks himfelf jufti
fiable in not having made his report to the Com
mander in Chief, by whose order he was sent out
and to whom, or to the officer of the day, it wa
Captain Slouch's immediate duty to have report
ed, and not to General Butler.
Jt is generally un lerftood from Governor St
Clair's letter, that the detachment under Captaii
Slough was sent out as a reconnoitring party
that wa- Jiut the cafe, as I (hall hereafter prove t>;
the oincer who delivered him his orders.
JOHN MORGAN, Enlign ift Unite<
State:- regiment, late Biigade Majo
to Genera! Butler.
Philadelphia, March sth, 1792.
To Mr. Claypoolf..
Philadelphia, Monday
4 o'clock—March 5, 1792
Sir,
HAVING this moment received a note fron
his Excellency Major General St. Clair, arreffirij
me for Mutiny, in publishing, *s I fuppole, mj
letter to the Secietary of War, inlerted in youi
Mail of the 3d inftanr, J beg the favor of you t(
mention it, if you can, in >our Mail of to-mor
row j for in ccn.equence of this arrefi, although
[ am proud of my situation in the cauie of truth
and honor, i may be precluded from giving fur
ther information until after a General Court Mar
tial /hall be held.'
If this note (hal! come too late for your Mai
!>f to-morr >w, be pleal'ed to insert it next day.
fcnd oblige, Sir,
Your most obedient servant,
JOHN MORGAN, Ensign ift United
States regiment, and late Brigade Ma
jor to General Butler.
TWENTY DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN away in August 1790 from the sub
scriber, living in Queen Ann's coun
:y, eallern snore of Maryland, a country
>orn Negro woman, called GRACE. She
s about middle aged, very low of stature,
-ound face, remarkable small feet, for a
legro, and has loft several of her fore-teeth.
The lapse of time since Ihe has abfeonded
•enders it unneceflary to describe her
loathing. She is artful and talkative, and
! make no doubt has pafled for a free \vo
nan, and got into Pennsylvania or Dela
ware itates. The above reward shall be
laid to any person i'ecuring said negro, and
riving information rhereof to her master,
ind reasonable charges if brought home.
EDWARD HARRIS.
Feb. 23. 8w law.
PROPOSALS,
For Publjking by Subjcription,
A Compendious SYSTEM of the
New and Old Hulbandry ;
With feverai Experiments made in bo h Syjlems j
CONTAINING)
TKE Mechanical, Chymical, and philosophi
cal, elements of Agriculture ; in which the
iilferent foils and manures are analjzed } proving
Mich manure is mod suitable for each foil, and
lie forts of grain and grafies adapted to the differ
ent foiis and climates of America—directions for
a)ing out and managing the farm yard} where by
jreat quantities of manures and compolts mav be
made j and to make some ntw, cheap and effec
.ual manures—several experiments made by the
author on grain of different forts, and directions
to make fertilizing steeps, which will double the
:rorps, kill the animalcule, and prevent blights
ind lmut—Proper methods of plowing and melio
ating the different foils fit to receive the grain—
The imperfedtions of the present mode of cultlva
:ion in this country, clearly pointed out} with a
new mode of culture, founded on observations and
jxperience: wherein is proved, by proper ma
lagement, changing the crops, and letting grain
»nd gralTes come in rotation, the pooreftland may
je enriched and made to produce as much as new
and—The nature and properties of foreign graft
's and puife. such as Lucern, Saintfoin, Burnets,'
Frefill, Ryegrafs, Horse-beans, Peas, Tares,
/etches} &c. with their benefit and advantages.
\ companion of different methods of farming in
he different counties of England—The method of
"eecling and fattening sheep on turnips, with d,i
eClions for making and piac/ng the hurdles for
>enning of them, .'ind the benefit received by their
lung j with the belt method of raising the turnip,
md an effectual receipt for preventing the ravages
>f the fly—An account of the culture and use of
he Mangel-wurzel, or root of fcatcity, known in
France under the name of Racine-de-Di lette,
.vith experiments made by the Abbe ae Comme
rell, Dr. John Coaklty Lettfom, and the author,
ocommended fjr feeding and fattening of cattle,
and for culinary uses—The ulefulnefs, culture
and method of raising, drying, and the virtues of
hops—Directions for lowing, transplanting and
managing of flowers, herbs, and vegetables, in the
garden ; with grafting, bund'.ng or inoculating all
forts of fruit trees} and a new method of plant
ing and improving trees in the field. To blew
beer, and to make cyder keep and be much Wrong
er than the common method—A description of a
drill machine (which any ingenious carpenter ma*y
make) for planting all forts of gr?in, pulse, grass
feeds, &c. in equal distant rows, and a runnin-g
hoe, which will do double the work of a common
?ne —Directions for making and placing of hedges,
in excellent and cheap method of fencing—The
lanagement and fattening of cows, sheep and
ogs, suckling and weaning of calves and lambs,
/vith directions and remedies to cure the several
Jifcafes cattle arc lubjeCt to, and to prevent and
ure the rot in sheep } with other ufeful and in
serting fubjeCts.
By JOHN SPURRIER,
An oIJ experienced and experimental farmer, late
>f the county of Herts, in Great- Britain, and now
»t the Queen of Frr.nce tavern, between Chetter
ind Wilmington, on Brandywine Hundred, coun
:y of Newcaltle, and liate of Delaware.
This Work to be handsomely printed in oCtavo,
on a good type and paper } to contain 300 pa»-
ges } sewed.
The oricf to fubferibers One Dollar, to non-fub
fcrioers One Dollar and a Quarter} to be paid
for on delivery.
This work shall be published as soon as 500 have
fubferibed.
Subscribers names shall be prefixed to the work.
Books, for the purpofc of fubferibers entering
their names, will be left at the Merchant's Cof
fee-houfe in second street} at Mr. Pelofi's, corner
jf Market and Water-streets ; at Mr. Inlkeep'j
Itage-ofiice, corner of Arch and Second-ltreets ;
Mr. Crukfhank, No. 91, Market-ctreet } Mr.
\'oung, No. 52, South Second street, and Mr.
&bfoii, No. 41. South Second street, and at the
iifferent booksellers.
Any gentlemen, living at a distance, who m-ay
*e inclined to patronize this publication, are re
volted to forward thjir names to any of the a
)ove placei.
H O W E L L's
LARGE MAP of PENNSYLVANIA.
work is engraved in the thoji elegant flyle*
and 'will be ready for delivery in the Spi ivg,
Fr is 63 inches long ana 36 inches wide, and for the
roftpart "very full of work (except Jome ftnail places
f whub materials were not to be bad) and was
wholly compiled from actual Jarveys, acquired at
rreat expence of monty,and more than four years la
bour, and from its manifejl pub.ic utility, the Legif
ature has been pleajed to grant the proprietor the
um if three hundred pounds.
This map exhibits the County and Townjhip Dim
yijtons, and tbofe of the Surveyors Dijlrifls in the
\ c w-Furchafe, Donation and Depreciation Lands }
he waters, portages, and the Canal mountains and
'jalleys, rcads y towns, &c.
He thanks the Public for their very liberal fub
ription, and informs them that it will not be closed
>efore the middle of April next. He fells bis small
via ps, on canvajs, folded and cas^dfor pocket car
■'tage, at 13/6, and plain at F/4.
READING UOWELL.
North fifth ft reet, No. SB—March 1.
A few Copies cf the REPORT of
the Secretary of the Treasury, of the
Sth inji. on the PUBLIC DEBT,
may be had at this Office.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS AND SWAINE,
AT TH EIR OFFICE, NO. 239," HIGH-STREET,
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA.