Vol. I.
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury on
the Exci/e Law,
[Continued from our la/1, & concluded.]
IV. THE regulations for marking of
Casks and vessels, as well as houses and
buildings,alfo furnifh matter of com
plaint.
This complaint, as it regards houses
and buildings, has been already adver
ted to : But there is a light in which it
is made that has not yet been taken no
tice of.
It is said that the requiring the doors
of the apartments as well as the outei
door of each building to be marked,
imposes unnecessary trouble.
When it is considered how little trou
ble or expence attends the execution of
this provilion, in the firft instance, and
that the marks once set will endure for
a great length of time, the objection to
it appears to be without weight.
But the provision, as it relates to the
apartments of buildings, has for its
immediate object the convenience oI
the distillers themselves. It is cal
culated to avoid the very evil of an in
discriminate search of their houses and
buildings, by enabling them to deiignate
the particular apartments, which are
employed for the purpose of their bu
siness, and to secure all others from in
fpeftion and visitation.
The complaint, as it refpefts the
marking of casks and vessels, has some
what more foundation. It is repre
sented (and upon careful enquiry ap
pears to be true) that through long efla
blifhed prejudice, home-made spirits of
equal quality with foreign, if known to
be home-made, will not command an
equal price. This particularly applies
tO .
ir (he want of a dittin&ion between
foreign and home-made spirits were an
occasion of fraud upon consumers, by
impoling a woife for a better commodi
ty, it would be a reason for continuing
it ; but as far as such a diftinftion gives
operation to a mere prejudice, favora
ble to a foreign, and injurious to a do
mestic manufacture, it furnifhes a rea
son for abolishing it.
Though time might be expected to
remove the prejudice, the progress of
the domestic manufacture, in the, inter
val, might be materially checked.
It appears therefore expedient to re
move this ground of complaint by au
thorising the fame marks and certifi
cates, both for foreign and for home
made geneva.
Perhaps indeed it may not be unadvife
able to vefl lomewhere a diicretionary
power to regulate the forms of certifi
cates, which are to accompany, and the
particular marks, which are to be set upon
casks and vessels containing spirits, gen
erally, as may be found convenient in
practice.
Another source of obje&ion with re
gard to the marking of casks is, that
there is a general prohibition against
defacing, or altering the marks, and a
penalty up on doing it, which prevents
the using of the fame casks more than
once, andoccafions waste, loss, and cm
barraffment.
It is conceived, that this prohibition
does not extend to the effacing of old
marks and placing of new ones by the
officers of the revenue, or in their pre
sence and by their authority. But as
real inconveniencies would attend a
contrary conftruttion, and there is some
room for question, it appears defirea
ble that all doubt should be removed,
by an explicit provision to enable the
officer to efface old marks and fubfti
tnte new ones, when casks have been
emptied of their former contents, and
are wanted for new use.
V. The requisition to keep an ac
count from day to day of the quantity
of spirits diftiiled is represented both as
a hardship, and impofFible to be com
plied with.
By P. FRENEAU: Pubtified Mondays and Thursdays, al Tiirte Dollars per annum,
MONDAY, March 19, 1792.
But the Secretary is unable to per
ceive that it can justly be viewed either
in the one or in the other light. Ihe
:rouble of setting down in the evening
the work of the day, in a book prepared
for and furnifhed to the party muff be
nconfiderable, and the doing of it
would even conduce to accuracy in bu
siness.
The idea of impracticability mud
have arisen from some miiconception.
It seems to involve a supposition
that something is required different
from the truth of the fatt. Spirits dis
tilled are ufualiy distinguished into
high wines, proof spirits, and low
wines. It is certainly possible to ex
press each day the quantity of each
kind produced, and where one kind is
converted into another, to explain it by
brief notes, shewing in proper columns
the results in those kindsof spirits which
are ultimately prepared for sale.
A rev;(ion is now making of the
forms at firfi transmitted, and it is not
doubted that it will be easy to obviate
theobjeftion of imp radii cability.
On full reflection the Secretary is of
opinion, that the requisition in this
refpefcl is a reasonable one, and that it
is of importance to the due collection of
the revenue, ei'pecially in those cases,
where, by the alternative allowed in
favor of country distilleries, the oath of
a party is theonly evidence ofthe quan
tity produced. It is ufeful in every
luch cafe to give the utmofl possible
precision to the obiedt which is to be at
tefled.
VI. It is alledged as a hardship.
that, distillers are held responsible fin
the duties on spirits which are export
ed, till certain things difficult to be
performed arc uuac, 111 order to entitlf
the exporter to the drawback.
This is a mifapprehenlion. Tb<
drawback is at all events to be paid ir
fix months, which is as early as the du
ty can become payable, and frequentl)
earlier than it does become payable
And the government relies on the bone
of the exporter for a fulfilment of th<
conditions upon which the drawback i:
allowed.
An explanation to the several col
lectors of this point, which has taker
place since the complaint appeared
will have removed the cause of it.
The fame explanation will obviate a
nother obje&ion founded on the fuppo
fition that the bond of the diffiller anc
that of the exporter are for a like pur
pose. The latter is merely to secure th<
landing of the goods in a foreign coun
try, and will often continue depending
after every thing relative to duty anc
drawback has been liquidated and si
nifhed.
VII. It is an articleof complaint thai
no drawback is allowed in cafe of ship
wreck when spirits are sent from one
port to another in the United States.
There does not occur any objeftior
to a provision for making an allowance
of that kind, which would tend to alie
viate misfortune and givefatisfaftion.
VIII. The necessity of twenty-sou:
hours notice, in order to the benefit o
drawback on the exportation of spirits
and the prohibition to remove their
from a distillery after sunset, except ir
the presence of an officer, are repre
fented as embarrafiments to bnfinefs.
The length of notice required ap
pears greater than is necefiary. It is no
perceived, that any inconvenience
would arise, from reducing the time te
fix hours.
But it is not conceived to be necefTar)
or expedient to make an alteration ir
the last mentioned particular. The
prohibition is of real consequence tc
the security of the revenue. The course
of business will readily aelapt itfelf to it,
and the presence of an officer in extra
ordinary cases will afford due accom
modation.
IX. It is slated as a har'dfliip, that
thei ' is no allowance for leakage and
waflame in the cafe of spirits Ihipped
frorr one state to another.
I he law for the collection of the du
ties <>n imports and tonnage allows two
ner ccnt. for leakage on Ipirits import
ed. A similar allowance on home made
Ipirits at the distillery, does not appeal
less uroper.
X* It is mentioned as a grievance,
that distillers are required to give bond
with furcty for the amount of the duti".
and hat t lie fufficiency of the iurcty is
made to depend on the difcretioti of the
chief officcr of infpeftion.
The requiring of sureties can be no
more a hardship on distillers than on
importing merchants, and every other
person to whom the pub'tfc afford a cre
dit. It is a natural cohfequence of the
rredit allowed ; and a very reasonable
condition of the indulgence, which
without this precaution might be im
prudent, and injurious to the United
States.
The party has his option to avoid it
ay p/onipt payment oi the duty, and is
iven entitled to an abatement, which
may be confidcrcd as a premium ii he
:!e£ts to do so.
AC to the second point, if sureties are
o be given, there mult be some person
an the partof the government to jud.g
aft -;ir fufficiency, otherwise the thing
tfe ;f would be nugatory ; and the dif
ctc an cannot be veiled more conve
niently for the party than in the chief
affi> :r of infpeftion for the survey.
A view has now been taken ot mod,
if r, it of all, the objections of a general
nati re, which have appeared.
Some few of a local complexion re
rT*r to.
The roprefentation signed Edward
Cook, chairman, as on bchalfof thefour
most western counties of Pennsylvania,
states, that the distance of that part ot
the country from a market for its pro
duce leads to a nece'lity of distilling the
grain, which is railed, as a principal de
dendence ofits inhabitants ; which cir
cumstance and the scarcity of cash com
bine to render the tax in question une
qual, oppressive, and particularly dif
trefTing to them.
As to the circurnftance of equality, it
mayfafely be affirmed to be impractica
ble to devise a lax which fnall operate
with exact equalitv upon every part oi
the community. Local and other cir
cumftances will inevitably create dif
parities more or less great.
Taxes on consumable articles have
upon the whole better pretenfians tc
equality than any other. If some o:
them fall more heavily on particulai
parts of the. community, others of therr
are chiefly borne by other parts. Andth<
result is an equalization of the burther
as far as is attainable. Of this class o
taxes it is not easy to conceive ons
which can operate with greater equali
ty than a tax on distilled Ipirits. Then
appears to be no article, as far as the in
formation of the Secretary goes, whicl
is an object of more 'equal confurr.ptioi
throughout the United States.
In particular diflri&s a greater use o
cyder may occasion a smaller confump
tion of spirits ; but it will not be fount
on a close examination that it makes ;
ir:»terial difference. A greater or lef
ule of ardent spirits, as far as it exists
fecms to depend more on relative ha
bits of sobriety or intemperance than or
any other cause.
As far as habits of less moderation, ir
the use of distilled spirits, Ihrjuld pro
dace inequality any where, it woulc
certainly not be a reason the legif
lature either to repeal or lefien a tax
which by rendering <the article dearei
might tend to reft.ra.in too free an indul
eence of luch habits.
O
It is certainly not obvious how this
tax can operate particularly unequall)
upon the part of the country in question,
Numb. 41.
As a general rule it is a true one, tha:
duties on articles ot consumption fall or
the confurners, by being added to tin
price of the commodity. This is il
illftratc-l in the present inflance by
fadts. Previous to the law laying a
duty on home-made spirits the pi ice of
whiskey was about thirty-eight cents ;
it is now about fifty-iix cents. Other
causes may have contributed in some
degree to this effect, but it is evidently
to be ascribed chiefly to the duty.
Unlel's, therefore, the inhabitants of
the counties, which have been mention
ed are greater confurners of spirits. than
thole of other parts of the country,
they cannot- pay a greater proportion,
of the tax. If they are, it is their inte
rest to become less In. It depends on
thernfelves by diminishing 'the con
sumption to restore equality.
The argument, that they' are obliged
:o convert their grain into spirits in °or
ler to transportation to difrant market?
Joes not prove the point alledred!
The duty on all they fend to those mar
kets will be paid by the purchafevs.
I hey will still pay only upon iheir own
conluriiption.
As ..ir as an ac.vance is laid upon *he
duty, or as far as the difference of duty
between whilkey and other spirits tends
o favour a greater consumption of the
atter, they as. greater manufacturers of
he article, supposing this fact to be as
dated, will be proportionably benefit
id.
The duty on home-made spirits from
domestic materials, if paid by the gal
lon, is nine cents. From the comm'i
ii cat ions which have been received
lince the palling of the act, it appears'
:,iat paying the rate annexed to the ca
pacity of the still, and uling great dili
gence, the duty may be in fact reduced
o fix cents per gallon. Let the ave
rage be take:! at seven and a half cent,
which is probably higher than is realiy
jaid.
Generally ipeaking, tnen, for every
rallon of whiskey which is con fumed,
the confumt r may be supposed to pay
fsven and a half cents ; !j ,t" for every
gallon of spirits di(tilled from foreign
materials the consumer pays at leaf! ele
ven cents, and for every gallon of fo
reign Ipints at lead twenty cents,
sonfumerthereforcofforeign spirits Days
learly three times the duty, and'the
:oniumer of home made f urits from
oreign materials nearly fifty per cent,
"ore duty, on the fame quant'itv, than
he consumer of spirits from dome,'lie
naterials, extlufiveof the greater pries
ii both cases, which is an additional
charge upon each of the two hrli men
tioned classes of confurners,
V y hen .t isconiidered that 8-21 Darts
of the whole quantity of spirits confu-r
---ed in the United States are foreign, and
7-21 parts are of foreign materials, and
that the inhabitants of the Atlantic and
mid-land countries are the principal
confurners of these more highly taxed
articles, it cannot be inferred, that the
tax under confidera'tion bears particu
larly hard on the inhabitants of the
western country.
This may serve as an exemplification
of a general proportion of material con
lequence, namely, that if the former
descriptions of citizens are able from
Situation to obtain more for their oro
duce than the latter, they contribute
proportionally more to the revenue.
Numerous other examples in coaiirma
tion of this m'ght be adduced.
As to the circumstance of the scarci
ty of money, as far as it can be suppos
ed to have foundation, it is as much an
objection to any other tax as to the ono
in question. The weight of the tax is
not certainly such as to involve anv pe
culiar difficulty. It is impofiibje to
conceive that nine ccnts per gallon on
distilled spirits, which is Hating it at
the higheit, can from the magnitude of
( Set lajl page. JPHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
KOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, March 14.
A meflage from the Senate was delivered
by Mr. Secretary Otis, notifying, th;lt th;y
had, on their part, agreed to the report en
the managers of the conference, on the d:i
agreeing amendments of both Houses to the
' bill to ascertain and regulate the claims tc
half pUy and invalid penlions.'
The order of the day being called for, or.
the contelied Georgia ele£t : on.
A motion of General Jackson's, ' that the
decision of the Senate of the state ol Geor
gia, on the impeachment of Judge Ofb >rne,
so far as it refpefts the Camden returns foi
a member,to reprefentthe itate of Georgia,
on the 3d day of January 179 1, be received
as evidence in the prefect trial ol that elec
tion, to establish the corruption of Judge
Oiborne,'- was the subject of a lengthy de
bate, in which the extent of the right or the
House to judge in ail cases of contested
elections, was fully difcufled ; and the in
terference 0:1 the part of the Senate of Ge
orgia, was conltrued into an invalio.i of the
privileges of the House.
The cjueftion being at length taken 011 the
motion, palled in the negative —yeas 20~
nays 41.
Yeas—Melßeurs Alhe, Baldwin, Boudinot
Clarke, Gerry, Giles, Gregg. Groves, Hei
fer, Jacobs, Key, Kitc'nell. Macon,Schoon
jnakcr, Steele, Sumpter, Thatcher, 1 red
well, Tucker, Willis.
Nays—Messieurs Ames, Barnwell,Benfon.
S. Bourne, B. Bouine, Brown, Findley.
Fitzlimons, Gilman, Goodhue, Griffin
Hartley, Hillhoufe, Huger, Kittera, Lau
ranee, Learned, Lee, Livermore, Madison
Mercer, Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray
Ni'es, Page, Parker, Sedgwick, Seney, J.
Smith, I. Smith, W. Smith, Sterret, Stur
ges, Sylvester, Veuable, Vining, Wadf
worth, Ward, White, Wil'iamfon.l
Mr. Lewis, counsel for the fitting mem
ber, then proceeded to reply; and liavin*
canvassed the evidence reljpefting the Ef
fingham election,
The House adjourned.
Thursday, March 15.
A meflage, from die Senate, was deliver
ed by Mr. Secretary Otis, notifying, that
they had pafled the bill (fen't to them bj
the House) " declaring the alftnt of Con
gress to a certain ast of the ft ate of Mary
• mi!, and to continue for a longer time, ar,
ast declaring the af.ent of Ceng: cer
tain ast; of the dates of Maryland, Georgia,
and Rhode-Island and Providence Planta
tions, so far as the fame refpefts the state:
of Georgia, and Rhode Island and Provi
dence Plantations."
Pursuant to the order of the day, the
House proceeded to the trial of the contes
ted Georgia election.
Mr. Lewis, counsel for the fitting mem
ber, spoke in reply to the evidence adducet
by the petitioner.
General Jackson then rose, and addreflec
the House in an elegant and animatec
speech, at the conclusion of which a louc
peal of applause suddenly rang from the
gallery : whereupon, some honorable mem
bers called to have the gallery cleared. Se
veral gentlemen however having opj:ofec
the motion, the audience were fuffered tc
remain.
Asfoon as order wasreflored, Mr. Bald
win moved,
That certain proceedings of the House
of Representatives of the ltate of Georgia,
accompanied with other papers, transmit
ted, agreeably to their resolution, under the
signature of the governor,, and the seal ol
the state, relative to the election of a mem
ber to represent the Eaflern diftrift of the
said state in this House, be received for ths
information of the House.
[The papers in qurjlion, are the farm, which
Mr. Baldwin m°vedfor leave to present, on the 27 1I
of lafl month, and to the admijjicn of which, Ji
viuch opposition was made at that time. See our pa
per of March i.]
This motion gave rife to a warm debate,
of considerable length, which was termina
ted by the previous quejiion.,—yeas24; nays 35.
Adjourned.
Friday, March r(>■
Several petitions were reai. and referred
to heads of departments.
The report of a feleft committee, to
whom was referred the report of the Secre
tary of the Treasury on the petition of cer
tain loan-officers, was read the firft and se
cond time, and referred to a committee ol
the whole House.
Mr. Boudinot after adverting to some
irregularity which took place in the gallery
yelterday, and remarking on the impor
tance of the freedom of elections, laid the
follo wing motion on the table :
Resolved, That whenever in the opinion
of the Speaker, or of the Chairman of the
committee of the whole Houle, any disor
derly or imprqper behavior shall happen in
the galleries, it be a Handing rule of this
FJoufe, that the Speaker or Chairni;; rj do
order the galleries to be immediately ci hir
ed without taking the opinion of the House
or committee. i
An enrolled bill, entitled, An a£t declar
ing the alient of Congress to a certain art of
the (late of Maryland, See. was brought in
and (igned by the Speaker.
The House proceeded in the trial cf the
Georgia election ; after a few introdu ' ory
remarks, Mr. W. Smith moved the folio w
ing resolution, viz. That 'Anthony Wayne
was not duly elected a member of chis
House.—This resolution was unanimously
agreed to —Ayes fifty-eight.
•Mr. Smith then moved another ft. j/uiion,
/iz. That a certified copy of the vote just
pafled should be transmitted by the Speaker
:o the Supreme Executive of the Hate of
Georgia.
This motion, after considerable debate,
was by general consent, laid on the table,
till Monday.
The House took into confideratioir the
•eport of the committee of conference on
:he bill to regulate the claims to half pay
ind invalid penlions, and agreed to said re
port, in consequence of which the bill is
called.
The amendments of the Senate to the
Representation bill were read, and laid on
:iie tabie. The principal amendments are
in encreafe of the Representation to 120
members; and aifigning additional mem
3ers to those States which have the largest
ra£tional numbers on die apportionment of
jne Representative to every thirty thousand
serfons, and expunging the section which
srAvides for a facond enumeration.
The report of the select committee, to
.vhoiii was referred the report of the Secre
:ary of the Treasury, 011 the petition of
Joml'ort Sands and others, was taken into
:onfideration ; after considerable debate,
he House, without taking a vote, adjoura
;d till to-morrow.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
BRUTUS, No. 11.
On the FUNDING SYSTEM.
W riTII regard to the firft enumerated
V V evil arising from the funding fv .tem,
r\z. its tendency to give an influence to
he general government, particularly the
reafury department, which was never cont
emplated by its framers, let us take a
•iewoffome of its immediate confecuen
:es : here we shall perceive a large body of
■vealthy citizens, many of whom are cloath
:d with power, holding the enormous Aim
)f fifty million dollars in certificates, an
imaginary capital, whose p<: manen*. ». alue
depends on the supposed vviUh f 1
jeopie, for ever, to fuft'er the fruits of their
nduftry to be drained away for it :, support •
an the influence of the treasury to conti
ulethe present, and institute new modes of
raxation, and on the energy of the govern
ment to put them in force. Should either
jf these dependencies at any time fail, this
snormous capital built upon the moi tgag
:d resources of the country, and supported
->y oppressive systems of taxation, will re
:urn to its original obfeurity, when the cer
tificates which compolcd it lay heaped 011
thefhelvesof the original holders, of no
other use than to remind them of the fuf
e rings and ferviees by which they were so
dearly earned. If, then, the interests of
:his combined and wealthy body 01 men,
:he present holders of this imaginary capital,
which has been with so much pains fiimu
ated to twenty-five Ihillings in the pound,
. ntirely depends on the influence and fuc
cefsful operations of the treasury depart
ment ; and if their all depends on the e lergy
as the government to put them iu executi
an, is it not to be inferred that they will be
:he uniform and active partizans of fifcal
irrangements and new aifumptions of pow
;r. Hence it is, we have already observed
:hofe who firft Supported the funding fyf
"em, and the aflumption, uniformly advo
cate the import and excise laws, and that
novel praftife of pledging them for the per
petual support of these systems, wlf.c i in
\ olves the extraordinary idea ;of a i( gifla
ture, chosen onlyfor two years, arrogating
to itfelf the power of controlling thelegii
i: tures of e very future and fucceflive gene
ration. Hence also we have seen the fame
men, contrary to the express terms of the
conllitution, which provides that all oow
~"s not granted, remain wit'i the states ref
peftivelv, under shelter o: the sweeping
clause, as it has been termed, advocate the
illumed pawer of incorporating banks, &c.
J-' bellowing bounties, and granting privi
eges ; and in ihort of every nieafu' e coni
ng from the Secretary of the treasury,
\ hich has a tendency to combine the moni
■d in:ereftby fifcal arrangements, or to en
a eail' the energy of government by new
dfumpt:ons of power. But even this is not
U1; it is a" evil which will be still increaf
ng, in proportion as new taxes are intro
kiced, and new powers are aliiimed, be
:au(e hosts of priblic officers, particularly
:olleftors and excisemen, will arise from
:hefe causes, as n.- uirally as infects are
>rought into being b : :e returning heat of
uminer. Thus, beiKi the support of a
combined and wealth /y l jdy of public credi- 1
tors will be added a ho ft of revenue offi
cers, from the Secretary of the trcafnry
Jowri to a tide waiter or excisemen ; who
will be all combined under the funding fyf
:em and its offsprings to encfeafe the infiu
?nce of the treasury department and the
?nergy of the government; they will all
ook up to the Secretary of th treasury as
;heir champion and founder, 'ind while he
s originating meafur.. i. •; which they exist
md thrive, will wrth their peas, their
ongues, and the' • votes, zealottfly give
tirn all their sup 'ort.
From these •. it appears,
Li«at a powerful aflion ha* been already
"aifed up under the funding fvftem ; whose
nterefts and views, as it will be hereafter
ihown, are ill direct oppoi'ition to the inter
est and happiness of the people ; already
,ve have seen them, the uniform and zea
ous advocates for iifcal arrangements and
lew aflumptions of power ; and we have
nvariably seen their repeated efforts crown
;d with fnccefs, in defiance of the mofl
ibleand well meant opposition. The in
ference is, that a well arranged and fyf
:ematic plan is formed, to encreafe the
mergy and power of the general govern
nent, to the deftruftion of the little impor
:ance left to the state governments ; and
ivhat may be considered still more pernici
ous to the extinction of thole republican
jrinciples, on which they are pillared, which
lave been so lately, fa arduonfly, and so
;lorioufly achieved.
These obfervationc become the more
ilarming, when we advert to the time this
:onftitutionwaspropofed to the people for
their acceptance ; and here the rand is in
tinftively carried back to that important
period when every individual was busy in
:ontemplatir.g its good or bad qualities :
ts enemies who were numerous through
nit the United States, particularly to the
"outhward, were with reason alarmed at
:he novel principles it contained, ant'
tgainft which ail our state governments
jore united testimony ; for whether the>
:onfidered the important powers it contain
:d, the extraordinary manner in which
:hey were diitributed, the vague terms ir
yhich they were couched, or laflly the
,/ant of a bill of rights to guarci a
jainft abuses, every coniideration confpirec
o ex,cite their jealousy a*.d fear, while
:vci: its candid friends acknowledged it:
lower and energy to be fuflicient. Whence
hen originate tiiefe fyftemutic schemes tc
mcreafe in energy and power ; and whj
ire the rears and jealouiies that have beer
entertained of this government, so foot
-«d so n 'leceflarily realized by the uniform
dccefs of every attempt to aflume new
>o -.vers. These are impoi tant questions tc
:!1 those who feel any attachment to theii
"Ipeftit e fiate s,ov{; irnentj. nnd v4i> ;>re
er living under a confederation ot free re
mblics, ft. Lurpofc where mutual inter
mits exist, to a confclidatioi] into one gov
:rwnent, made up of subordinate diftri&s.
mdnot adiiiiniitered on republican prin
iples. B K U T U S.
17.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
AMIDST the various schemes of lock
k. navigationpropofed, none promif
;s greater advantages to agriculture, com
nerce, and manufactures, than that foi
initing tlie Delaware and Sufquchavna by the
Srandyamie. —It is iinpo'lible for the mind tc
:onceive the vail field of importance thai
uch a navigation would be to the furround
ng country ; going through a rich and po
mfous part, it would be a real saving to ar
mmenfe amount in a fltort time.
To this grand Canal many others would
:ommitnicate, such as the North-Well
jranch of Brandywine and the Ccnejfcga.
>oth of which streams might be opened b>
ocks to their source.
An extenfton of this ufeful navigation to
fork-Town is contemplated, for no doubt
he Cadorus, or some other stream in that
teighbourhood, would be found to arifwer
o till a canal that Should come to
lanna at or near Wrights ferry.
For the information of Lancaster and
l r ork cities, it is mentioned, that the canal
n contemplation is to go from Wilmington
id the.weit branch ofßrandywine, to where
he turn-pike road may cross it, which, will
je about 4© miles from Philadelphia; fc
ar, then, is no doubt that it will be prole
:uted, the ground having been levelled for
hat purpole part of the way, and it will
•eft pretty much with the above counties,
-vhether it fliall be continued or not, lo as
o unite Philadelphia by Wilinington, with
York-Town.
March Bth, 1792.
FRANKFORT, Dec. 24.
The peremptory term of Jan. 15th, fix
;d by the French government for the de
:ifion of the Princes of the Empire, who
avour the assembling of the armed emi
grants, has produced great commotion on
:he banks of the Rhine. The day before
i'efterday a grand council was held at Cob
entz, where M. Conde attended.
Monsieur was not fufflciently recover
ed.
The elector of Mayence has thought
proper to cause a note, dated Dec. 21, to
befent to the French Charge d ? Affaires, t»
the fo'Lowingeffeft:
"By several of the most refpe&able pub
lic papers, it has come to the knowledge of
his Electoral Highness of Mayence, tliat
a letter is fuppofcd at Paris to have been
delivered to him from his Majesty, relative
to theftay of the Prince of Conde, and
several other French, at Worms.
_ " His Electoral Highness having no ter
ritories 011 the frontier of France, certain
ly con Id not suppose that the hospitality of
this Prince and his friends could give ym
brage to France.
" Nevertheless, he thinks it his dtity to
make known, that he has received no com
mun cation from the King of France on
the fubjecl.
" The tmderfigned requcfts M. Barthe
lemy, the French Charge d'Affairs, to
traufmit the above to the Ministry o'
trance, .to avoid all mifunderltanding,
See."
The Magistrate of this imperial city
continues to mamfeft, by stronger proofs
than mere assurances contradi&ed by facts,
that with refpeit to the Freuch revolution
he will observe the principles of neutrali
ty prefcri bed by the laws of nation*. He
has prohibited all the inhabitants from en
listing in the service of the French Princes,
on pain of forfeiting the right of citizen- '■
ihip ; and having received information,
that a number of chariots and horses con
tracted for by the Hou.e of Ehrmann, and
collected in the neighbouring country,
were to pass by night through the village
ofOber-rod, and the fubnrb of Sandhof,
would not allow it.
STATE PAPER.
VIENNA, Nov. 30.
" In consequence of the orders of this
court, the underiigned Envoy extraordi
nary has the honor to declare officially, in
the name of the king his mailer, to the im
perial ministry, that his majesty agrees with
her imperial majesty of Ruflia, and his
Catholic majesty, in the fame sentiments
for the re-eltablifnment of the French Mo
narchy : that like them, the king views his
molt Christian Majesty as in a ft ate of
captivity, in despite of the acceptation he
has made; that uniting these princip'es
and in|the conduct of the Empress of Russia,
his majesty has sent the Baron de Oxenitein
to the French Princes, and that he is resol
ved, in consort \\ ith the co 4 ...ts of Peter. -
burgh and Madrid, to act so as to ani'iver
the exigence of the cafe, refpeclii; ; the
Royai hioufe, and the Kingdom of France.
(Sij-ned)
Le Baronde Nolsi;en."
L O N D O N, Jan. 10.
The policy ofci Ferpnt courts in Furcp;
seems to be to nourish in France the spirit
of discord, and to weary out the people by
making them think, from a want of energy
in their government, that the new fyttemis
impracticable, and that they can expect
from it neither relief or quiet.
1 he Methodists throughout the island of
Great Britain, ar~ promoting a fubfeription
towards forwarding the abolition of the
(lave trade. Their fubfeription may be
eventually more productive than the oppo
lite party are at present aware of; their
fubferiptious areufually, if not individually
large, very general, when enforced by their
teachers; andt\Ao millions of fix-pences
would make a very formidable funi, coming
from one quarter only.
I lie Empress of Ruflia has ratified the
treaty of alliance between Sweden and
Ruflia, and the exchange of the ratification
will soon take place.
It now amounts almaft to a certainty,
that in the approaching spring the king of
Sweden will, in concert with Ruflia, take
an a£tive part in favor of the French princes
and their adherents.—There is no doubt
the hearts of the Polanders are with the
French revolutionists—their amiable mo
narch may, with peculiar propriety, apply
that clafiic line to himfelf and nation—ipfe
e . "Having
been oppressed myfelf, I am inftruded how
to relieve the opprefled."
It is a fact, that four hundred of the
French naval officers have emigrated, two
hundred and seventy of whom belong to the
port of Brest, only.
, The Ruffian nobility are extremely a
verse to aw ar with France. The heavy
burdens already occasioned by the wars with
the Turks, are the ostensible objetts of op
position—an opposition which, if it does not
defeat the design, may at leaf! be a means
of contracting it in such a manner, as to
render the fucconrs sent very feeble.
It has always been the custom at Constan
tinople, and other places in Turkey, to call
a Christian by no other name than Kclb
(dog)— Their present sultan has forbid all
his lubje&s that are MufTulmen, or true
Turks, under the most rigorous penalties,
not to insult any Christian, of whatever feet
ie may be.
It is a truth not universally known, that
he course of exchange has fallen, againlt
France, since the revolution, more than
line pence on three livres, or half a crown.
Russia and Sweden.
The following are reported to be the ar
ticles of the treaty lately fisned between
"itthe courts of St. Petcrfburgh and Stock
holm.
Articlel. ' A reciprocal fuccourof 12000
troops, and of 12 Ihips ot war ; but Swe
de:'. 111 conformity to the treaty of 1745,
v.', 11 never furnifh this quota against the
Ottoman Porte.
A -r. 11. This treaty is to remain in force
for e". ; ; it - ears ; during which period, Ruf
li.i iti.j'.iiates to p y a considerable sum in
money to Sweden, besides an annual subsidy.
Art- 11l- In cafe of domestic coinmo
t'or ■ in the states of either of the high con
-1 .-a. * ng powers the other ihall give all man
ner of aiiiOance in relloring tranquility.
. :u. IV. This alliance shall be more
closely cemented, by a marriage between
the Prince Re al of Sweden, and a daugh
ter of Lis Imperial Kighnefs the grand Duke
of Rui'.ia.'
General O'Connel, it is thought, will have die
command of the French forces 011 the frontiers ol
Switzerland : He is a moll excellent otiicer, and
tfce fmeft man in the kingdom.
- IraEl of a letter from a gentleman in Paris,
d/tted December 19.
" The leading features in the state of
this capital remain pretty much the fame
as they have been delcribed in my former
letters. Happily the extreme violence
. which lately prevailed has been attended
with some good eSects ; an union of the
moderate party has in consequence been
formed, and is at present predominant in
the Alfeinbly. More prudent measures
have been adopted, and the proceeding
of Government marked with more confi
dence.
" The king has been exceedingly popu
lar-fine e his resolutions. Nothing indeed
couidbe better calculated to conciliate the
public mind : A war against the emigrants,
and those German Princes who favour their
designs, is now the general cry, and initead
of dreading an attack, they are eager to
commence hostilities ! The appointment ol
La Fayette as one of the Generals afford;
the highest fatisfafltion. No peiion can be
better qualified to defend the New COll
- than he who had so great a share
in establishing it. None has been engaged
in public with more advantage to the com
nu.nity, or a character more irreproacha
ble to himfelf.
M. Petition has commenced his of£ce ci
Mayor with great activity. The vigour oj
his proceedings against: gamblers has beer,
attended with the moll ufeful effects. Along
with the morals he has not failed to amend
the appearance of the city, and is at present
busy to promote the convenience and beau
ty of the streets.
" The state of credit is very fUifftjating.
The fame lamentable scarcity of money re
mains. The late changes in the state oi
credit have, however, rather irceu fur riie
better, and from the popularity of the me ;-
fures now adopted by government, we trufi
will continue to improve."
PHILADELPHIA.
March 19, 1792.
A Georgia paper of Feb. 4, informs, thai
the Creek Indians finding the pretended Gen,
Bowles deficient in his promises, drove him
away from their nation ; and that Gen. M'Gii
livray (who seems not to be dead, as reported]
had it in contemplation to attend the running ol
the boundary line shortly, between the Creek
country and Georgia.
By'accounts from Savannah (fays a New-York
paper) it appears that Gen. Bowles has taken a
small fort belonging to the Spaniards, in confe
rence of which the Gov. of East-Florida has
offered a reward of two thousand dollars for his
head.
Richard Morris, Esq. late chief juflice of the
Hate of New-York, is appointed Supervisor ol
New-York diflri£t, vice William S. Smith,
Esq. who is gone to Europe.
Since the opening of the Delaware, upwards
of forty vessels have arrived in this port; more
■ than twenty of them from foreign ports ; .the
remainder coaflers.
The fuperin'.endant of this port cautions all
persons, employed in conducing veilels to and
lrom the fame, from Handing too close in to
wards the piers at Mud-Island : the outermost
of the said piers having been so far deflroyed by
the late breaking up of the ice, that no part
thereof is to be fecn except at veiy low tides.
Perfosis wilhing to make rommunicaiions tc
Mr. Peak's AMERICAN Museum of natural
curiosities, &c. in this city, are delired by the
direflors of tliatmufeum to address them to the
following gentlemen —William Barton, Benja
min Barton, William Bingham, John Beale
Boaidley, Nicholas Collin, Alexander Dallas,
Miers Fiflier, Afhbel Green, Samuel Powel
Griffiths, Alexander Hamilton, Ebenezer Ha
zard, Henry Hill, Michael Hillegas, James
Hutchinfon, Thomas Jefferfon, James Madi
son, Thomas Mifflin, J. T. Mifflin, Pvobert Mor
ris, John Pare, Robert Patterfon, Edmund
Randolph, David Rittenhoufe, Jonathan B.
Smith, John Vaughan, William White, Caspar
Willar.
Major Hamtramck, in ascending the Wabafh
river the latter end of December, having with
kim about 50 men, fell in with a party of two
hundred Pyankefhaw Indians, hitherto fuppcf cd
to have been hostile to the United States. They
exprelfed some concern to the whites relative to
their friends, prisoners at Fort-Washington
whom, they had been informed, were hanged,
Upon learning from two Indians, of major Ham ■
tramck's company, that this was not the cafe,
but on the contrary that they were kindly treat
ed, thev appeared highly pleased. gave the
el ites plenty of frelh meat, and aflifted them
ill in their power in getting Up the river to Pofl
/incennes.
Advices from Hifpaniola, as late as Feb. u,
nform us, that on the 21ft of January the fori
md garrison at Jaquemell (south fide of the
fland) were attacked by an army of 13,000 mu
attoesand negroes, about four in the afternoon.
They continued their attack with the utrnoft fury
ill half past five next morning, being moll part
>f that time within piftel (hot of the fort, only
etreating now and then occasionally to bury the
>odies of their dead and wounded. They re
reated in good order, and it was thought mull
lave loft a vast number of men, as the artillery
»f the fort was well served, and pointed with
udgmerit. The garrison in the town confided
if 7.50 whites and 400 blacks, who had continu
d faithful to th .:ir owners. There are no ac
ountscome to hatnd of the particular numbei
illed on either fide.
A sum of money has been fuhferihed in the
itv of Albany, to be disposed of in premiums,
or promoting the manufacture of maple sugar,
larticularly the graining of it. Three feveta
>renniums, of feventy-five, fifty, and twenty
ive dollars, are to be paid to persons who ex
ubit be ore the firfl day of July next the prc
lortionate quantities of 600, 400, and 200 wt
)f the bell quality of grained maple sugar.
The constant current of emigrants from New
England travelling to the weftcrn country abou
akesOntario, Erie, Cayuga and Oneida, is faie
o have been m tch greater during the prefer:
vinter, than any heretofore, since the peace.—
\t leaf! one thousand families have palled tht
Sudfon through Catts—kill, Albany, and Half
Vloon, since the firft day of December ]act.
Nothing discovers in a stronger point of view
he wcaknefs and wickedness of the Prince Bi -
hop of Liege and his court, than their prohibit
ng the sale of MoKTEsnuiEt's Spirit oj
fazws, aqjJ Voltaire's Qwjlions cm the Ency
lopedia, within the precincts of the territory o;
he Liegiois (in Germany).—lt is an old obfer
/ation, that Truth never fears the Jlrißejl invefti
jation ; and upon this criterion, of admitting
jr not admitting free difcuflion, may be faiil)
e.led the goounefs or badness of any Ciuft
.vhatever.
On the 28th of February it snowed fteadil;
or eight hours (from ten in the morning tili si:
nthe evening) in Charleston, S- C.—Thisphc
lomenon, it is obiVrved, is becoming raon an'
Coi:.: un itie cOof. of the CarolinaS—
t belongs to the philosophical societies to in
/eftigate the cause.
On the 13th inft. died, in New-York, after ;
Tiort illness, Henry Remse n, ECq. an ole
nhabitant of that city, and universally efteemet
A'herever he was known.
European papers mention a severe earthquakt
it Lilbon on the 27th of November, which fil
ed that city with terror and conftemation.—
There were five or fix severe Ibocks which ra
bidly lollowed each other, succeeded by ano
her, after an interval of five minutes, that turn
jledthe bells out of the steeples, and demolilh
•d the chimncvs of many houses—Such was the
error inspired by this commotion of nature
h it all business, as well as diversions, was pro
libited for several days after.
Other particulars of late European intelli
gence may be comprizcd in the following ab
lra£l:—The hopes of the French emigrants ir
heir undertaking against their country chiefly
elled upon the prince of Conde, the count de
'rovence, the marquis tie Bouille, and ma.fhal
Jroglio ; the count DArtois .vas rather unpo
mlar amongst them, owing to his extravagant
ove of pleasure, which seemed to incapacitate
urn for anv great undertaking.—Sweden had
efufed a second time to receive the king ol
notification of his acceptance of the
lew conflitution ; in consequence of which the
7 rench ambassador had received orders to quit
he country —The Swedes had loft upwards ol
•o fail of merchantmen in the Mediterranean
ince their rupture with Algiers—The son ol
Vlr. Edmund Burke had paid a visit to the
French emigrants at Coblentz, and was received
vilh open aims bfc the princes and iheir adlie
ents —The French emigrants were become odi
>usin the extieme at Brussels, and with difficul
y escaped alfaflination from the inhabitants—
[he emperor and the king of Pruflia had con
luded a defenfive alliance, in which the latter
lad undertaken to guarantee the Germanic con
htution and all the rights and polTeflions of the
:mpire—lt was currently said in London that tht
ipaniards had agreed to all the demands of the
American Hates, not excepting the free naviga
icn of the Miflifippi —The king of Sweden wai
itting out a squadron of two Ihips of war and fin
rigates against the dey of Algiers.
An allociation has been recently formed ir
.on.don for difcontir.uing the use of sugar, made
n the Weft-Indies. The members of this a (To
iation are known by the name of Anti-Saccha
ites (fugar-haters)—They conceive that wher
he disuse of sugar shall become so general as tc
ender the importation of it unneceflary, the
lave trade will be at an end. They calculated
tl a, the (lave trade would he entirely abolifiltd
w sre thirtv ftvtn thousand families to give over
tl t use of sugar.
The President of the United States ha*
aj- jointed the following oiiicers of the
Squadron of Cavalry to be raised agreea
bl'. J to an ast, pafled the sth inft. for the
n- ore ei >fttial defence of the frontiers.
Major Michael Rudulph, at present Cap
tain in thefirft regiment.
Captains—John Watts, Virginia ; Law
rence Manning, South-Carolina; John
Craig, Pennsylvania ; John Stake, New
York.
Lieutenants —Robert Mis Campbel, South-
Carolina ; William Winflon, and William
Aylett Lee, Virginia ; William Davidfon.
Maryland.
Cornets—Leonard Covington, Maryland ;
Tarleton Flemming, Virginia; Solomon
Van Renlelair, New-York; James Taylor,
Pennfylvariia,
Extraß of a letter from Copenhagen, conccming
the Magnetic Atlas, which came Lately through
the hands of his Danish majejlfs minister at the
court of London.
" The Royal Society of fcienees at Copenha
gen has received the letter of Mr. Churchman,
chted the 22nd of October, j go, and his trea
tise entitled " Explanation of the Magnetic At
las, or Variation Chart," projected oil a plan
entirely new. The society is obliged to Mi
Churchman for the communication of his ela
borate treatise, and cannot but admire his genius,
and praise the fagaciiy with which he has built
up a system, wanting neither beauty nor fymme
trv. The oblervations of thejmagnetic needle are
not older than 200 years ; the moll of these are
made on board of (hips, with bad inflruments,
and at places whose latitudes and longitudes are
uncertain. The observations made at land are
very few, and besides are wanting at the mod
interesting and principal places of the globe. By
this reason the principles of every magnetic fyl
tem are very doubtful. The attempt of Mr.
Churchman to clear up this dark matter, is very
i, udable, and cannot but meet with the appio
b;. ion of the natural philosopher,
Mr. Churchman is setting out from that prin
ciple, that the magnetic needle has an universal
c rettion towards two points on the lurf'ace of
live globe at certain di (lances, one from the north,
th other from the south pole of the earth.
The theory of Mr. Churchman agrees pretty
weil with all observations made between the
rr.cridians of London and Philadelphia, and also
at places very near these meiidians ; by this rea
for. the variation calculated for Paris is very near
the truth.
The inverfed problem : if the latitude and
vitiation are given, to find the longitude, would
be of great use to navigators, but at some places
o! a;c octzn a difference of two degrees of lon
g.'iuce, uniy, gives a difference 01 ouc degree
variation.
The society (hall be glad to be informed ofl
the further improvements, by which Mr.
Churchman, without doubt, will promote his
ingenious theory of variation.
By order of the Society.
Christian F. Jacobi, perpet. Sec'ry.
-ii.
From the Connecticut CourAnt.
OF late, the newspapers have offered opi
nions which deserve to be well conli
dered before they are received as truths. It
has been said that we mult keep up a gen
eral government, because we cannot have
an union of the states without it—and ac
cording to the frozen praise of these wri
ters, the union is rather a good thing than
otherwise. But we mult not have a jot
more of a general government than just
enough for the union to rub and go, or
fpeakingmore correftlyto rub and not go :
because, fay they, if you give an inch more,
consolidation will ensue, and consolidation
is worse than fchifrn, thatis, than no union.
According to these new fangled federal
ifts, the movement of government in future
depends on the mutual respect and love of
Congress and the itate legidatures. The
great concern of the latter is to be left Con
grefs fliould lose a part of the power ne
cefliiry for the union, and Congress in this
traffic of tenderneis is to fear left the states
(hould want power to prevent a consolida
tion—and so there will be a great deal of
loe loft. It will be loft; for, as the balance
between the national and state govern
ments is to be tried in money scales, and
no hing, according to these writers, but
love and good will can keep the balance
true, it will soon be destroyed. For the
truest love is sometimes hot and sometimes
cold, and in the firft change away goes the
balance, and disunion fol
lows in a trice. This doctrine, tho' expres
sed in other terms, has been advanced in one
of the Philadelphia papers.
The inlidious conciulion is manifeft —if
the balance ot Congress and the state gov
ernments is so very nice and hard to pre
serve, and the dangers so very unequal,
consolidation being so much worse than
disunion, we have nothing to do, but to
turn to the left hand path which we thought
in 1787 was leading us to deltruftion —give
thi state legislatures more power, take a
wr v part of that which is allotted to Con
gi is, oppose and embarrass its exercising
w.: at is left, and break the union as fait as
we cau.
It cannot be that those who found these
alarris are alarmed. No encroachment on
the state powers is made or threatened —
there is no symptom of any disposition in
the public to countenance such an attempt.
Congress is hot even accused of hav ing ex
ceeded its powers—it has repeatedly ltopt
(hort of the limits, as in the judicial law and
some others—Tbefe writers fee no danger
on the other iide—they are silent on the ex
clusion of federal officers from state assem
blies, on the refufal of state legifiators to
take the oath to support the conftitution —
on the continuance of tender and paper mo
ney laws—on the discussions in the state ai
• emblies of the excise law, &c. &c. —It is
only Congress that usurps powers and d,f
regards tile constitution. '
No friend of his country would approve
the disturbing its peace by usurpation on the
part of Congress. The wilhes and the iu
terefts or the nation concur in keeping each
government within its proper bounds.—
I ime is daily foftening prejudices and bind
ing more closely the affections of our citi
zens. Knowledge is spreading, and liberty
of course is better imderftood and stands on
a founder foundation than ever. The future
arrangements of our government will de
pend on the people themselves; and if thus
enlightened, thus improving, they fnouid
be so imprudent as to make or allow an un
neceifary change of the forms and powers
of their legislatures, it would be strange if
their cale (hould become at once so bad that
they could neither mend nor endure it —■
(urely a free people could apply a remedy,
as well as many palliatives of the evil.
It will not be denied that feparatp legis
latures are exposed to the danger of clalh
ing. 7 he danger, however, is aggravated by
inltrufting the people to look with dislike
and fear towards Congress, and this they
Itirely will if they believe that consolida
tion is the greatest and moll probable dan
ger they stand exposed to. The constitu
tion is the child of the people. It is not
Joubted they love it too well to fuffer these
men to execute upon it the judgment of
Solomon, and to saw it in two.
These writers have little affection for
:he union or a strange apprehension of fu
:urity when they repre.ent confolidatioti
is vvorfe than schism or no union at all.
It is not easy Jto imagine what could be
vvorfe than a diviiion of the states. The
svil affords no room for palliatives. Rival
;ir neighbour states could not remain
friends. Injuries would sharpen resent
ments, and hatred wou-'d become heredi
:ary. And what could be gained or hoped
or ? with more enemies and those with
in our prelent limits fliould We have less
armies or taxes ? Would a weaker go
vernment defend us, or would its yoke lit
iightei . Should we e'ijoy more liberty,
more tranquility, or snore wealth. What
lan be more Stocking tfi a nation than its
diflolution. than brothers becrming ene
mies and feeklng each others blood.
Those writers who represent consolida
tion as worse than a feparatioil of the states
are great admirers of the French revoluti
on. France hasindeed recovered its liber
ty, and one of the lirft ules it made of it
was to break down the provincial govern
ments, and to consolidate the whole nation
into one body. France has seven times
more people than the United States ,a navy,
colonies in every quarter cf the earth, and
a vast trade. The present happy order
of things is not to be changed, to follow the
example of France, but no man will believe
that it is not better to adopt that example
than to fuffer a separation of the union.
That we may not be driven to this alter
native, let us contradict those who repre
sent consolidation as 110 improbable event
and yet the worst of all political evils.
A Fri end to the Union.
PRICE of STOCKS.
Six per cents, per£. - 21/4,
Three per cents, - - ij7<s
Deferred fix per cents, - 12/,
Final Settlements - 17/6.
Indents - - j
Bank stock 1-2 (hares, 70 —per cent, advance.
Meteorological Observations
March, 1792.
D. H Bar. T/icr. Wind, j IVeatk
Monday, 12. 7 29. 5 34 W. \Fair.
2 29. 52 39 do. Cloudy.
Tuesday, 13. 7 29. 6 33 S.W. Fair.
2 29. 6 44 W. do.
Wedntfday, 14. 7 29, 8 33 i>. W.Far.
029 82 44 do. Cloudy.
Thursday, 15. 7 30. o 32 n.n.e. Cloudy.
2 29. 97 43 E. do.
Friday, 16. 7 29. 734 N. E. Snow.
2 29. 8 41 do. (Cloi'dy.
Saturday, 17. 7 30. c J4 W. Fair.
2 30. 1 50 do. do.
Sunday, 18. 7 30. 36 E. Cloudy m
2 30. o 43 S. E. Rain'. '
A few Copies cf the REPORT of
the Secretary cf the Treasury. of the
6th ult. on the PUBLIC DEBT,
way be had at this Office.the tax, diftrcfs any part of ihe country, which
has an ability to pay taxes at a)!, enjoying too the
unexampled advantage of a total exemption from
on houses, lands, or stock.
The population of the United States being
about 4,000,000 of persons, 3nd the quantity oi
Ipirits annually consumed b-tween ten and elever
millions of ga)ions, the yearly proportion to eac!
family, if consisting of fix jerfons, which is s
full ratio, would be about fixteea gallons, th<
duty upon which would be !efs than cue dollar am
a half. The citizen who is able to maintain ;
family, and who is the owner or occupier of ;
farm, cannot feel any inconvenience from f
light a contribution, and the industrious poor
whether artizans or laborers are ulually allowec
fjHrits «r an equivalent in addition to their wages
The Secretary has no evidence to fatisfy hi
mind, that a real scarcity of money -/'ill be found
on experiment, a serious impediment to the pay
meat of the tax any where. In the qui. > 'er wher<
tais complaint has particularly prevailed, tb<
expenditures for the deiencc of the tr ntier woulc
i 'em alone fuflicienc to obviate ir. I 0 this it ?
anlwered, that the contra&ors for the supply c
the army operate with goods and not with monej
but this still tends to keep at home whatever mo
ney finds its way there. Nor is it a faCt, if th<
ir formation of the Secretary be not materially er
roneous, that the purchafcs of the contractors 0
fiour, meat, &c. are wholly with goods. But i
they were, the Secretary <;an avet, that mon
money has in the course of the last year beer
lent into the western country from the treasury
in specie, and bank bills which answer thefam<
purpose, for the pay of the troops and mil;
:iand for quarter-masters supplies, than tin
whole amount of the tax in the four western coun
tit'S of ,lvania and the diiliiCt of Kentuclc;
is likely to equal in four or five years. Simila
remittances are likely to be made in future.
Hence the government itfelf furnifhes, and ii
all probability will continue to furnifli, the mean
of paying its own demands, with a I'urplus whict
will ienfibly fofter the imk»ftry of the parties con
ccrned, if they avail themselves of it under th<
guidance of a spirit of economy and exertion.
Whether there be no part of the ITnited States
in which the objection of want of money m v
Truly exist, in a degree to render the payment o
the duty ferioully distressing to the inhabitants
the Secretary is not able to pronounce. He car
only express his own doubt of" the faCt, and reff
the matter to such information as the member
of any distriCt to fituared, may have it in then
power to offer to the legislative body.
Should the cafe appear to exist, it would in
volve the neceflityof a mealure in the abftra<?
very ineligible, that is the receipt of the duty ir
the article itfelf.
It an alternative of this fort were to be allow,
ed, it would be proper to make it the duty of tlx
party paying, to deliver the article at the phc*
in each county where the office of inspeCtion i:
kept, and to regulate the price according to fuel
a llandard, as would induce a preference of pay
ing in cattt except from a real impracticability o
obtaining it.
In repaid to the petition from the distriCt o
Kentucky, after what has been said with refer
ence to other applications, it can only be necessa
ry to observe that the exemption which is foughi
by that petition, is rendered in. > a&icable by ar
express provilion of the constitution, which de
clares, that all duties, imports and excises fhal
be uniform throughout the United States.
In the course of the foregoing examination 0
the objeCVions which have been made to the law,
some alterations have been submitted for the pur
pole cf removing a part of them. The Secretary
will now proceed to submit such farther altera
tions as appear to him advifeable, arising eithei
from the suggestions of the officers of the revenue
or from his own reflections.
J. It appears expedient to alter the diftinCtior.
distilleries from domestic materials in
cities, towns and villages, so as to confine it tc
one or more stills worked at the fame distillery,
the capacity or capacities of which together dc
not fall (hort of four hundred gallons.
The effectual execution of the present provi
(ions respeCting diltilleries from home material*
in cities, towns, and villages, would occasion ar
inconvenient multiplication of officers, and would
in too great a degree exhaust the product of the
duty in the expence of collection. It is also pro
bable that the alteration suggested would also con
duce to public fatisfaCtion.
11. The present provi/lon 1 ! concerning the en
tering of stills are found by experience not to be
adequate, and in some instances not convenient.
It appears advifeabie, that there (hail be one
office of inspeCtion for each county, with autho
jrity to the supervisor to eftabli(h more than one
if he (hall judge it necefiary for the accommoda
tion of the inhabitants ; and that every diftille;
or person having or keeping a still, {hall be rc
quired to make entry of the fame, at some office
of inspeCtion for the county, within a certain de
terminate period in each year. It will be prope
also to enjoin upon every person, who relidinj
■within the county, (hall procure a still, or whe
removing into a county, (hall bring into it a still
within twenty days after such procuring or re
moval, and before he or (he begins to use the still
to make entry at the office of infpeCtion. Ever}
entry besides describing the still, (hould fpecify ii
whose poffeflion it is, and the purpose for whicl"
it is intended, as whether for sale or for use ir
distilling \ and in the cafe of a removal of th<
person from another place into the county, (hai
fpecify the place from which the still (hall hav»
been brought. A forfeiture of the ftili ought ir
every cafe in which an entry is required, to at
tend an omiilion to enter.
This regulation by Amplifying the -business o
entering stills, would render it easier to compre
hend and comply with what is required, woulc
furnifh the officers with a better rule for ascertain
ing delinquencies, and, bv avoiding to them <
confiijerable degree or unnecefiary trouble will fa
cilitate the retaining of proper characters in the
offices of collector .
111. It is represented that difficulties have ir
some instances ari/fen concerning the persons re
sponsible for the ci jty. The apparent, not being
always the real proprietor, an opportunity so
collusion is afforded ; and without collusion th
uncertainty is stated as a source of embarrafimen:
It also sometimes happens. th2t certain itine
rant persons without property, complying wit:
the preliminary requisitions of the law as to entiy
&c. ere'ft and work Hills for a time, and j>efor
a halr'-yearlv period of payment arrives, remo>
and evade the duty.
It would tend to remedy these inconveniencies
if pofieflors and proprietors of stills were math
jointly and severally liable, and if the duty wen
made a fpecijic lien on the still itfelf ; if also th<
proprietor of the land, upon which any dill mo;
be worked should be made answerable for the >lu
ty, except where it is worked by a lawful and bo
na fide tenant of the land of an estate not lcfs thnr
for a term of one year, or unless such proprietor
can make it appear, that the pofTetTor of the fti!
was during the whole time without his privity 01
connivance an intruder or trefpaifer on the land ;
and if in the last place any diltiJler about to re
move from the division in which he is, (hould b.
required previous to such removal to pay the ta.i
for the year, deducting any prior payments, 01
give bond with approved surety, conditioned fn
.he payment of the full sum for which he or i'v
(hould be legally accountable to the end of the
year, to the collector of the division to which th<
removal (hall be, rendering proof thereof undn
the hand of the laid collector, within fix month
after the expiration of the year.
As well with a view to the forfeiture of th<
ft>lis for non-entry, as to give effect to a fpecijl
lien of the duty (if either or both of these provi
lions lliould be deemed eligible) it will be neces
sary to enjoin it upon the officers of the revenue
to identify by proper marks the several ftili:
which lhali have been entered with them.
IV. The exemptions granted to stills of the
capacity of fifty gallons a d under, by the 36tl
feftion of th# law, appear from experience to
quire revision. Tending to produce inequality
as vv?!' as to fruftrate the revenue, they have ex -
cited complaint. It appears at least advileabl^
that the obligation to enter, as connected wir t
that of paying duty y should extend to still s of al
dirnenlions, and that it lliould be enforced in ev-j
ry cafe by the fame penalty.
V. The 28th fe&ion of the ast makes provi
fion for the ftizure of spirits unaccompanied wit'
marks and certificates in the cases in which thf
are required \ but as they are required only :r
certain cases, and there is no method ot diftinguiiy
ing the spirits, in refpett to which they are n?
celTary, from those in refpedt to which they an
not neceflary, the proviOon becomes
because an attempt to enforce it would be opprei
five. Hence not only a ;reat fccurity for the dui
execution of the law is loft, but feizurcs very dif
treffing to unoffending individuals mult happti
notwithstanding great precaution to avoid them.
It would be, in the opinion of the Secretary, o
great importance to provide, that all spirits what
loever, in casks or veffcls of the capacity of twen
ry gallons and upwards fliould be marked and cer
Tiried, on pain of seizure and forfeiture, makint
it the duty of the officers to furnilh the requite
certificates gratis to distillers and defers iwi*
jafes, in which the law (hall have been compact
with.
In those cases.in which an occasion of recur
•ence to the officers for certificates might be in
:onvenient, blanks may be furnilhed to be ac
rounted for. And it may be left to the partie
hemfelves in the like cases to mark their owr
:afks or veiTels in some limple manner to be cic-fi-
Ted in the law. These cases may be defignatec
,- nerally. They will principally relate to dealers
a ho in the course of their bulinefs draw off (nirit;
rom larger to smaller calks, and to distillers w!k
>ay according to the capacities of their stills.
As a part of a regulation of this fort it will b<
leceffary to require, that within a certain pc; :od :
ufficiently long to admit of time to know anc
omply with the provision, entry shall be m-.de.
>v all dealers and distillers, of all spirits in toei 1
efpe&ive poffefiions, which (hall not have veer
<revioufly marked and certified according to ,aw
n order that they may be marked and certified a:
>ld stock.
The regulations here propofcd though proouc
ive of lome trouble and inconvenience in the out.
et, will be afterwards a security both toindividu
ils and to the revenue.
VI. At present spirits may not be imports
: rom abroad in calks of less capacity than fitt)
;alions. The size of these caft:s is smaller tba r
s desirable, so far as the security of the revenue i 1
:oncerned, and there has not occurred any t;ooc
ibjeCiion to confining the importation to largei
:alks, that is to fay, to calks of not less than nine
:y gallons. Certainly as far as refpedtsßum trorr
he Weft-Indies it may be done without inconve
nience, being conformable to the general course o;
jufinefs. The result of examination is that th<
exception as to this particular in favor o> gir
may be aboli/hed. Should any alteration or thi:
fubjedl take place it ought not to begin to op-rate
:il! after the expiration of a year.
VII. There is ground to suppose, that the al
lowance of drawback without any limitation as tc
quantity has been abused. It is submitted thai
none be made on any less quantity than one hun
dred and fifty gallons.
VIII. There is danger that facility may be gi
ven to illicit importations, by making use of calks
which have been once regularly marked, and the
certificates which have been issued with them to
cover other spirits than those originally contained
in such calks. Appearances which countenance
fufoicion on this point have been the fubjclts ol
representation from several quarters.
The dangei may be obviated by prohibiting the
importation in such marked calks on pain 0: for
feiture, both of the spirits and of any (hip r ves
sel in which they may be brought. A prohibi
tion of this fort does not appear liable to an;/ good
obje&ion.
IX. The duty of sixty cents per gallon of the
capacity of a still was founded upon a con puta
ci n, that a still of any given dimenf.ons vorked
four months in the year, which is theufusi period
of country distillation, would yield a qu*.-tity ol
spirits which at the rate of nine cents per gallon,
would correspond with lixty cents per gallon of the
capacity of the (Kill. It will deserve considera
tion, whether it will not be expedient to give ar
option to country distillers, at the annual entry oi
theii stills, to take out a licence for any portion 01
Hie year, which they may refpe&ively think fit,
and to pay at the rate of 12J cents per gallon oi
the capacity, per month, during such per'»od.
This to stand in lieu of the alternative of paying
by the gallon distilled. It would obviate in thi:
: afe the neceflity of accounting upon oath, anc
would leave it in the power of each distiller to co
ver the precise time he meant to work his (till wit?
1 licence, and to pay tor that time only. A ftrid
prohibition to diftill at any other time, than tha
for which the licence was given, would be of courfc
nccefl'ary to accompany the regulation as far a:
regarded any such licensed distiller.
The only remaining points which have occur
ed, as proper to be (übmitted to the confideratior
>f the legislature, refpedts the officers of the reve
t ue.
it is represented, that in some instances, fron
he ill humour of individuals, the officers hav<
xperienced much embarra(Tment, inrefpe&to th<
illing of stills with water, to ascertain their capa
ity, which upon examination is found the mofl
imple and practicable mode. The proprietor;
iave in some instances not only refufed to aid th*
:tficers, but have even put out ot their way th;
neans by which the filling might be conveniently
iccomplifhed.
It would conduce to the easy execution of th<
awj and to the very important purpose of retain
ng and procuring relpeOable chara&ers as collec
:ors, if the proprietors and pofTellors of stills wer
equired to aid them in the execution of th.
>art of their duty, or to pay a certain sum as .
:ompenfation for the doing of it.
r I be limits afiigned in the law refpe&ing com
?enfations are found in practice efTentiaily inade
juate to the objett.
This is so far the cafe, that it becomes the dut;
>f the Secretary to state, that greater latitude ii
his particular is indifpenjible to the effectual execv
ion of the laiu.
In the molt productive divisions the com>
millions of the collators a::;>;J but a moderan
:ompenfation. In the greatest part of them tht
:ompenl2tion is glaringly diiproportioned to ihi
. rvice, in many • t them it falls materially (hor
>i' the expcnce of the otiiccr.
It is believed, that in no country whatever ha
he colledion of a similar duty bean effected with
n the limit afiigned. Applying in the Unice
states To a fngle article only, and yielding confe
juently a lets total product than where many ar
icles are comprehended, thecxpence of collettior
nuft of neceflity be proportionally greater.
It appears to the Secretary that per cent, o
he total produ<sl of the duties on distilled spirits
"oreign as well as domestic, and not less will fuf
ice to defray the compensations to officers am
>ther expences incidental to the collection of thi
luty. This is to be understood as fupplementa
o the present custom-house expences.
It is unneceflary to urge to the House of Repre
enta'jnhow eliential it mult be to the execu
+-.n of the iaw in a manner effe&va! to the pur
>©les of the government and fatiifadtory to th
ommunity, to secure by competent, though mo
lerate rewards, the diligent services of refpcdtabl
ind trust-worthy characters.
All 'which is bnmbly submitted•
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the "Treajury
freafury Department,
March sth, 1792.
Tormentina's Complaint.
IN (hades we live, in (hades we die !
Cool zephyrs breathe to our repose,
In (hallow ftrcams we love to play,—
But, cruel, you that praise deny,
Which you might give, and Rothing lose,
And then pursue your deftin'd way.
Ungrateful man ! when, anchoring here,
On lhorc you came to beg relief,
1 fhow'd you where the fig-trees grow,
And wandering with you, void of fear,
To hear the story of your grief,
I pointed where l'weet waters flow.
The men that fcorn'd your ragged crew,
(So long the sport of Neptune's rage—)
I told them what your fufferings wtfre 5
Told them, that landsmen never knew
The trade, that hastens frozen age,
The life, that brings the brow oi care !
A ram, the favorite of the flock,
To your unpitying crew I gave
To roast or boil on yonder deep :
My heart cculd scarce endure the (hock
When on the margin of the wave
You (lew the father of my (heep.
Along your native northern (hores
From iile to isle, wherfc'er you stray,
Of all the nymphs, tljfct catch the eye,
They scarce can be excelled by ours ;
Altho' in cooler (hades they play,
And summer funs come not so nigh.
Confefs your fault, mistaken swain,
And own, at least, our equal charms t
Have you no flowers of yellow hue
That please your fancy, on the plain
Would you not guard those flowers from harm
If Nature's felf each picture drew ?
Vain are your (ighs, in vain your tears !
Your barque must ftil) at anchor lay,
And you remain a (lave to care,
A thousand doubts, a thousand fears !
'Till what you said, you (hall unsay,
Bermudian Lades are not fair !
SINBAT.
Castle IJland, Bermuda, Jan. 20, 1789.
%* The Report of tht Secretary of tiu
Treasury on the Excise A& : for sale. at thi:
Office.
LOTS AND LANDS FOR SALE.
THE Subscriber ivifoes to fell sundry Lots and
lioufes in the tcivn of Alexandria, in good
Hu at ions for business ; some of them are unimpro
ved• Afo several tra&s of Land in the countie
of Fairfax and Loudoun 5 the Fairfax lands ay
from one and a ha fto four mites from Alexandria ;
the Loudoun lands 45 to 50 miles. A credit iviil
br given for a considerable part of the value if re
quired by the purchaser j and as no perjon ivill buy
ivithout vieiving the property, a description is un
necejj'ary. I ivill aljo fell fever a I tra&s of land
on the ivejlcrn waters, in the inhabited par t of the
country, containing from 300 to 2000 acres each.
Those lands ivill be fold lovu, either on long credit,
for money, as may befi suit the purchaser. /
havealfo a trail of 500 acres of lew land in Acco
mack county, on the Eaflern jShore of Virginia ;
about <;o acres of ivhich are cleared, on the ivaters
of Majjango River, navigable for boats through the
tar.d. The land is of an excellent quality, and hea
vily timbered, ivith White-Oak and Pine, and lies
'within 4 miles of a landing that a vefj'tl of 9 to 10
feet ivater can load at. Mr. Walter Bayne, ivh«
lives near the land, ivill fheiu it to any ivho way
incline to fur chafe.
JO SI All WATSON.
Alexandria, Feb. 20 1792.
6 t 1 a w.
T) AN aivay on Wcdncfday night lafl, a Negrv
Man, about twenty-three years old j had on a
ight coloured fbort coat : took ivith him a pair of *•
leather breeches and a pair of green fluff do, a bea
ver hat half ivorn, narroiv brim and deep crtivn ;
7 pair of boots j flriped cotton and silk flockings-—
be> is firm made—reads and ivrites a legible hand
has yI am informed, procured a pajs and a certifi
:ate of his being a free man. It is probable he ivill
'.ndcavor to get cn board some vrfjel, either at this
blace or New-York• He has a Jmall fore under hi*
\chin, occasioned by cutting out a iven. I ivill give
.Ten Do lars reivard for Jecuringbim, if in this city.
Twenty Dollars if taken in Neiv-Y ork, or any ether
place of the fame diflance, and pay all reasonable ex
bences.
ANDREW MOORE,
Spruce -ftreety No. IT2.
Philadelphia, March 9, J792.
TWENTY DOLLARS REIVARD.
RAN away in August 1790 from the sub
scriber, living in Queen Ann's coun
;y, eastern shore of Maryland, a country
scorn ISegro woman, called GRACE. She
s about middle aged, very low of stature,
round face, remarkable small feet, for a
legro, and has loft several of her fore-teeth.
The lapse of tirhe (ince Ihe has abfeonded
-enders it unneceflary to describe her
cloathing. She is artful and talkative, and
[ make no doubt has pafled for a free wo
man, and got into Pennsylvania or Dela
ware states. The above reward shall be
paid to any perfonfecuring said negro, and
riving information thereof to her master,
Mid reasonable charges if brought home.
EDWARD HARRIS.
Feb. 23. B\V 1 aw.
H O W E L L's
LARGE MAP of PENNSYLVANIA.
THIS work is engraved in the moji elegant fiyle,
and will be ready for delivery in the Spi ing.
It is 63 inches long and 36 inches wide, and fir the
moji fart very Jul/ of work ( except some Jmall placet
of which materials were not to be had) and was
wholly ccmpikd from aHual surveys, acquired at
great expence of money, and more than four years la
bour, and from its manifejl public utility, the Legis
lature has been pleased to grant the proprietor the
[um of tbt ee hundred pounds.
This map exhibits the County and Townjbif Di~
visions, and those of the Surveyors Dijlriiis in the
New-Purcbafe, Donation and Depreciation Lands ;
the waters, portages, and the Canal mountains and
valleys, roads, towns, &c. ,
He thanks the Public for their very Vberal fub
criprion, and in forms them that it will not be closed
before the middle of April next. Be fells his small
MAPS, on canvajs, folded and ras^dfor pocket car
riage, at nib, and plain at Sfy.
READING HOWELL.
North fifth fireet. No. SS — March 1.
A few Copies of the following REPORTS and
ACTS may be had at the Office, No. 239,
Market. Street.
REPORT of the Secretary of the Trea
sury, relative to a provision for the
support of public credit.
Plan for the general arrangement of the.
Militia of the United States, by the Secreta
ry at War.
Report of the Secretary of State for efla
blifhing a uniformity in the weights, mea
sures, and coins of the United States.
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury
on establishing funds for paying interefl on
the debts assumed by the United, States.
Attorney General's Report on the Judici
ary Syflem ef the United States.
Report of the Secretary of State on thefub
ieEl of the Cod and Whale fjheries.
AbflraEl of the Exports of the United
States for one year.
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury
m a National Bank.
Secretary of State's Report on Weflcrn
Lands.
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND S W A I N E,
AT THEI ROF FICE, NO. 239, HIGH-STREET
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA.