Vol. I.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
On the Injustice of the EXCISE LAW
and the SECRETARY'S REPORT.
IN my last publication I have asserted.
. that there never was in any countt>
a more partial, oppreflive, and unjui!
inflrument of revenue, than the present
excise system ; But as I do not wife,
rtor expect, my atrertions to pa.s foi
proofs, I have, throughout th-le am
madverGons, appealed to indubitable
facts. an equal knowledge of which may
be obtained by any careful enquirei .
and conscious, therefore, that my state
ments, however defei* lve in the arts o;
language and composition, arc made with
precision and candor, I can have no oc
cation to blush under the apprehension
of the ftrifieft fprutiny. I will now,
however draw to a conclusion, with a
further enumeration oi fadls, and apply
thefein refutation of the leading argu
ments which are urged in defence of the
excise law,as it affefcts theprod.uccof the
foil. Unjust and impolitic system
is. no part of its composition, no courie
of its operation, is without an advocate;
nor is this matter for surprize, when we
consider, that it is. the nature of oppref-
Jion to contribute to tne interefl and
power of its authors.
Government has the right to make
an election of the kind of property that
should be taxed, to-regulate the manner,
and toprefcribe the amount, with re
j'pect to the proportion of the tax to the
value of the i'ubjefton which it isimpof
cd, whether a tenth, as in the cafe of the
tithes inEurope,or afourth,asin the cafe
of the excise on whilkey, the question is
immaterial in the view of a rapacious
financier, provided ilk- icvenu--
procured. It is the prafhee of all des
potic governments to calculate lather
upon w hat can, with the greatest ease,
be extracted from the people, than upon
what in prudcnce ought to be taken.
Yet even the adrnimflrations o» iuch
governments never openly avow the
nefarious principle on which they
ast : The people hear it not in the theo
ries, thou gh they jttl it in the pradhce
oftheminifter. but let it be remem
bered, that the refined sophistications
of the ablefl logician, can avail little in
opposition to the injured feelings of the
people. The monarchy of France, the
mod potent and apparently the mod
{fable in Europe, has fallen a memora
ble facrifice to the national sense of fuf
ferance. Without the charm of anti
quity to fanctify it, without the influ
ence of prejudice and attachment to
uphold,-and without the force of roy
alty to defend, what is to prevent a
similar dissolution of our new raised fa
bric, should the citizens feel, that not
withflandingevery constitutional limita
tion,there cxifts a power capable, and ar,
administration willing,to opprels them?
Tho' the reasoning of thefederahft may
have induced us to give a fair trial tc
the government, the reasoning of the
Secretary would hardly be fufheient tc
counteract the effects of our experience
in that event.
1 mean not, ho\vever, to impute to the
con ftltution itlelf the evils which flow
from a pervcrfionof its genuine principles
and an abuse of its delegated authority:
The government in tlie abflrafct may be
good, though the adminiflration is bad ;
bnt it is the administration, and not the
frame of government, which a£ls imme
diately upon the people; our men in
power will do well, fcafonably to refledl
upon the consequences of involving the
latter in the odium which is only due
perhaps, to the former.
Among the variety of arguments that
are offered in support of the excise, we
find this notable position ; that thole
persons who are not affected by the ex
cise upon whiskey, consume a pi oporti
or.sbly greater quantity of coffee, tea,
sugar, and other foreign goods, on
P. FREN EAU : Publijhed Mondays and Tjhur t Three Dollars per an
T H U R S D A Y, May 17, i?9 2 -
which an nnpoft is paid ; and contri
buting largely to the revenue in this
way, they ought to be exempted, while
the western parts 61 the Hates which do
not in the like manner aid the public
revenues, ought tocontributc upon their
whiskey ; upon which principle theex
cife is the molt equal tax that can be
deviled.
In order to discover the fallacy of this
plaufiblc pretext, it will be necelfary
to state the fubjeft in its poper point of
view. There are more than 100,00 c
people in Pennsylvania, who have no
other mode of manufacturing their grain
into 3 portable form, so that they can
convey it to market, but by distilling it
into whiikey. This number of pcrfon;
may be distributed into near iß,occ
families; and'they are chiefly employ
ed ill fanning ; though, in my cftimate.
.1 am iatisfied to omit one third of them,
is employ d partly in trades, or as not
jeing fui'ficiently industrious. to work
Lheir farms to advantage. Suppole,
:'nerefore that the remaining 12,c00
families raise annually at the rate of 100
bushels of grain each, so; the market,
:his quantity ol grain will produce 225
gallons of whiikey ; upon which the far
mer will pay 18 dollars'; and the whole
amount being 84,0001. is more by 80001.
ar thereabouts, than the whole Hate has
annually paid 111 a dire£t tax, during fe
vCn years pail ; whereas upon an equi
table affelfment of the value, or yearly
rent of their property, the one iixth
part of that amount, would be their full
[hare of contiibution to the public icve
nue. Nor is this all that these distant
families have to pay. It is alferted by
those who have lived as well in the new
.r; tlip rxtrl £e^tt' a rnen # *>,
neater proportion of (alt is needed 111
he former than in the latter ; and from
:hc bed information I can get, four
bushels to a family would not be an ex
cessive allowance ; but as one bushel
there, costs them at an average, as much
as eight would do here, 1 will luppofe
that they mult putupwith a lefsquantity
therefore they cannot subsist at alower
rate than will on this article alone pro
duce an impost of at least 1500U We
muftconfider, likewise, thatthe whiikey
is not a cash article, but is ultimately
bartered for goods to the ftorckccpers
either on this fide, orbeyond the moun
tains ; and as the impost is undoubtedly
charged in the price paid by the conlu
mer, we may fairly conclude that on
syery article thus bartered, a greater
proportion of that duty is paid by the
western people, taking into view their
relativemeans of payment, than by their
more fortunate brethren in the old set
tlements. Many an article of dress and
furniture, many a delicacy for the ta
ble, is used by them, which they would
not use, if they could get money for
their produce ; and this fatisfadtorily
accounts for their dress being so much
better than, compared with the state of
their houses, would be cxpefted. But
Surely I need not repeat, to demonstrate
the truth of what I fay, that vast quan
tities of goods are carried from Tili 1a -
delrilia, from Baltimore, &c. over the
mountains, or to the towns east of the
mountains, whofc commerce is chiefly
carried on wit:, the western frontiers ;
or again appeal to the merchants in this
city, to the ftorckccpers in the towns
near the mountains, and to travellers,
who can scarcely get room to pass along
the road, for the pack horses with which
it is croudcd in the fall and winter^
But it may be obje&ed, that my esti
mate of the quantity of grain or whii
key which hey can spare for the mar
ket, is not supported by experience. I
grant that a surplus to that amount has
nSt hitherto existed ; but let us reflefl.
that the greater part of that country,
which is now divided into eight coun
ties, was laid dcfolate by the war, and
(he inhabitants rendered so poor, that
i ;ey have not yet been generally able tc
repair their ruined habitations, and to
raise their bread ; nor indeed, can ma
? of them be !aid to have enjoyed
peace at all. When, therefore, we make
. proper allowance for ih 'ie tliftrc fling
r iK'umttancL's, wc must be furprizeo
? Kat they have already had so much tc
(pare : and when we conlidcr how
i luch thev have disposed of at lo cheap
rate ; that it is but a few years lincc
vhi (key was carried from Conecho
cheague to Pittfburg, and fold at ss. pei
Gallon ; and that new settlers have hi
lierto been going thither annually, whe
..ceded to purchafc their, firft year':
bread; we lhall be convinced that «
iw years would enable them to go e
\ en beyond the estimate I have made
if there was a'demand fufficient. Before
the distilling was promoted there, breac
was frequently scarce. People havin;:
no profpett of felling their grain, put 11
I uch crops only as they luppofed woulc
be fufficient for their family and flock
when their crops failed there was a ge
neral scarcity. But flncc they have en
:,aged in the pra&ice of carrying thcii
vhi (key abroad to barter for goods, ;
spring is given to induflry, and there i:
grain in abundance. Of this fact, the
contractors for the army have had the
fullcft proof. But there never can be
a demand for.fuch a quantity ot whifke)
.is that country could produce, unti
Ihe prejudices against the liquor are re
moved. Even at this period the dc
mand is not nearly equal to the quanti
ty that can be made, nowithftanding the
cmporary wants of the army. If i
vers in fufficient esteem to constitute ;
commercial remittance to foreign coun
or ;f jt could find a ready and ge
neral falc in the resorts of opulence
the supply would be cheap and abun
dant from all parts of the United States
that are at a distance from market.
A moderate tax, according to an equa
afleflment on visible and productive pro
perty, to the amount that thencccflitic
of the United States still require, woule
not oppress the citizen, nor difcouragi
induflry ; but a tax at a rate between 2:
and 30 per cent, upon all a man cat
spare from his labor, and including 4c
per cent, for the expence of distilling
produces a degree of oppreflion that i
unknown in any country, which has ;
claim to freedom, and must necelfarilj
dilcourage induflry to an extent beyone
calculation. If it was at all a ncccffar}
policy to lend the Ipecial aid of govern
ment to spirits manufactured from thi
produce ot a foreign foil, it was luffici
cut to have laid high duties upon so
reign spirits until whiskey, made fron
grain, had attained such eflirr.ation 11
the market, as to claim a competitioi
with the favored liquor. But the ar
guinent of equalizing the tax. will, or
110 pretence, apply to the great body o
farmers, who live within reach of ;
market ; which is the cafe with all the
citizens of lome of the ftatcs, and wit!
the majority of the citizens of all
the states, except of Vermont. The)
la rely can supply their ncceifary con
sumption from their farms with more
advantage and eale than the weft
cm people c«n ; the wolves do noi
kill their Iheep, their farms being im
proved, their labor being less arduous :
mechanic affiflance is more calily pro
cured : sweet cyder, &c. supply tnerr
with refrefhments/, they will, of course.
pay less excise, and make more of theii
cloathing;and they can take their grain,
butter, cheetc, and many of them thei;
fowls and eggs to market, ; article:
which thofc at a distance mult eat them
selves or lose. Have they then greatei
appetites than the.people in or over the
mountains? or have those people, dil
treffed by their situation, forfeited 2
right to have their appetites gratified r
But if this argument applied to the
towns, it is no: certair.iy the produced
Numb. 58.
the western farms exclusively, which
oueht to be excised ; but the produce
of those farms also which enjoy greater
advantages. That it docs not apply to
the towns, however, will be evident,
whin we reflca, that great towns are
the centers of wealth, and that much of
that wealth is invisible as to a lubjcclof
taxation ; *nd that in those towns pro
fitable employments, and lucrative o
cesj which pay no tax, have their rei
dence. It ought also to be con fide red,
that a house of 20 feet front, will bring
m<*e annual rent than perhaps, four 01
five farms in the western country ; ge
nerally ipeaking, residence in a town iS
the relult of choice, but in the western
country an ast of neceflity.
The result of the mo ft candid examin
ation is that the people who reside in
the western country, in order to live as
comfortably, are under the necellity ot
paying more to the revenue upon the
consumption of goods, in proportion to
the value of their estates, than t.ie peo
ple in the old settlements who have ex
cess to the markets ; and that there is
no more reason for putting the welterti
people than the eaftein upon a compe
tion with those who prefer living in
towns. Therefore if this argument falls
to the ground, the excise upon whil
key cannot be supported upon any prin
ciple of equity or good government.
But we are informed by the Secreta
ry that a much greater amount of mo
ney is transmitted to the western coun
try on the account of the supplies to the
army, &c. than would pay the excise
tax." Does not the Secretary know that
the money received by the contrattoii
is sent back again to the merchants in
Philadelphia, for goods with which the
supplies are paid for, even the pittance
which the soldiers are pur
chased for a trifle by the contraftorsand
other storekeepers. I have myfclf seen
large files of orders for even the pay of
the militia transmitted by the store
keepers to their merchants, no money
being sent to pay them until long after
the service was reduced, they gave their
discharge for such goods as they could
get for them. The late contractor, Col™
Duer, only proposed to purchase for
money, but it is certainly known, that,
in the course of the last campaign, he
only transmitted a few hundred dollars;
to procure supplies to the army; and.
therefore, though he promised money,
his not paying it, gave an uniformity to
the magnitude of his villainy. from
him the people had not even the grati
fication of receiving Coffee,Tea,Shawls,
Chintzes, &c. itfelf, therefore this con
trast, calculated to promote speculation,
did not even aid the impost.
But does the Secretary design that
the war shall be as permanent as the ex
cise ? if not, his argument does not ap
ply, even if money were given for the
supplies.
We are further informed, that, the
war being for the defence of the fron
tiers, the people residing there ought to
pay for it. The war is conducted by,
and for the protefticn of the United
States. The people of the frontiers are
the immediate fuiferers by the mistakes
or miifortunes, that have attended its
progress. Was it ever suggested that the
debts of the late war fliould press hea
vicftupon those states, or places, where
it raged longest, and with greatest vio
lence ? Surely not. This argument is
inconsistent with the idea of .1 national
government, and with humanity and
common sense ; how absurd is it to fay
that those people who have had the
blood of their dearest relations shed like
water around their dwellings, who
themselves eat. their with terror,
and lie down and rife with trembling
and dread, and who have just caufc to
complain, that their protection has not
been early nor effectually provided for
by government, Ihould alio pay an overproportion of t'lie jbublic U.;es: To thofc
wjio have flood for a long time, as a c jii
ftatit piquet guard to the interior set
tlements ; to those who have been louj
vitVnns to the ravages of war, even aRo
man emperor would have granted an exo
neration from public taxes, not only dur
ing the war, but until ti)2 damages vvhicl
individuals ftiftained by it, could be repair
ed : I am sorry that in the United States i
contrary doctrine has been firft advanced.
But. to reason for"a moment in opposi
tion to absurdity, let us enquire, whence
the war originated, by what authority it
can either be prosecuted, or terminated
and what property, or interest, is at flake
upon the corned ? Did Penufylvania ori
ginate the war ? No : at this moment there
5* not an Indian tribe, that does not refpeol
the generous policy which her governmenl
has uniformly exercised towards them. I ■
there a dispute with the Indians about .1
Angle acre that Penufylvania claims to be
within her jurifdittion—no : wherever Jhe
has treated for herfelf, (he has fairly paid
the stipulated equivalent: and even where
flie has purchased, for a full confederation,
as in the instance of the Lake Erie tract,
from the United States, (lie has confirmed
her title bv another purchase from die
aboriginal claimant,. Is there the preterite
of a (ingle wrong offered to the persons 01
property of Indians, by Pennsylvania, or
her citizens, as the ground of the war ? no :
the tref.Mffes and crimes of individuals
have never in any instance been charged
upon the government, much less ought they
to be charged where a government has,
like that of Pennfvlvania, exerted every
instrument to bring the offenders to justice
and made ample retribution to the injured.
It is enough, however, upon this point,
to {hew that the war has not originated
with this state, which nevertheless, in the
opinion of some political cafnifls ought to
sustain the whole, or at lead, a very dis
proportionate part of the expence. But
let the war have sprung from what source
it may, can Pennsylvania prescribe the
manner of its being prosecuted, or the
terms on which it (hall be terminated ?
This is clearly the duty, as it is exclusively
the province of the federal government.
Then whose property is at flake ? Penn
sylvania claims not an inch of all the terri
tory within the jurifdi£Kon of the weflern
governor : if land, therefore, is the object
of contention, (lie has nothing at risque ;
and if the'eonreft is not about land, in the
name of heaven, let us a(l< (for at the tri
bunal of heaven wemuft anfvver) what has
produced all this waste of blood, of trea
sure, and of happiness ?
If, then, Penufylvania has not originated
the war ; if (he has no right to prosecute,
or terminate the dispute ; and if (he has 110
property at flake ; what plauflble pretext
is there to affect, that (he ought, in parti
cular, to be saddled with an excise, because
the produce of the tax is appropriated for
the defence of the frontiers ! Has (he not
rather reason to complain, that her coun
try is desolated, her citizens harralfed, and
her habits of peace disturbed, by wars and
devastations, which (lie dia not occasion,
which (lie could not prevent, and which,
but for her union with her fitter states, the
■would never, probably, have known ?
But, I perceive, that it is better, for the
preservation of concord and mutual esteem
among the states, to leave this argument to
the contempt, which its obvious absurdity
naturally will excite, than to pursue an in
vefligation into the origin and progress of
the war, which if it did not tend to dillolve
the cement of our confederation, must, I
am persuaded, involve in confufion and
disgrace, the ostensible instrument of the
government. SIDNEY.
The following sentiments were delivered
by Mr. Moore in the House of Repre
sentatives, in the debate on the Excise
Bill, —April 30. [not before publi/kcd.]
Mr. MOORE oblervcd that in the difliift o(
Virginia he reprefentcd, there had been no op
position made to the execution of the excise law.
He believed it had been duly executed, and had
no doubt of a cheerful acquiescence, so long as
the ncceflitv for its adoption cxifted, or until
some more eligible mode could be adopted, to
pay the expense necelfarily incurred for the well
ern defence ; presided, the law was lb amended
as to operate equally through every part of the
union—Buc (he further obferveo) the bill, in its
present form, was calculated to encourage and
promote the dillilling from foreign materials,
and to oppress and difcouragc dillillation from
materials, the produflion of the United States.
The argument made use of, viz. that the objcQ
of the bill is to provide for the wellern defence,
and urged as a reason for the excise being con
tinued as it now is, can have no force. It can
not be a reason for imposing an unequal burthen
on the wellern inhabitants. They have aright
Jo demand protection, and at the joint expense
of the whole. If they are to pay for their pro
tection, or if their defence (which it is hoped
will require only a temporary provision) is made
the ground of inequality in a law intended to be
permanent, it would be refufing them the equal
lights of citizens. If they arc to pay the ex
pense, why not fuffer th'eni to pursue such mode
of defence as they may choose. A gentleman
has oblervcd, that a tax to operate equally
ofl every citizeH. I agree with hijn in the prin
ciple, but not in the extent in which he applies
it. 1 have no idea that every man aught to pav
an equal luin, without any regard to his Gtua
tion, ability, or circumstances. Tbpbill itfelf,
111 the very parts by that gentleman advocated,
coniams a different principle It is contrary to
the policy of the government, and.is impofliblc
to be executed. The report of the secretary
proposes by different rates of cxcife to encourage
home-diflilleries. —II this be the object, we can
have (ufficient data on which to make certain and
conclusive calculations; and may fix on such a
proportion in the excile as will produce the de
(ired end, and duly encourage both. What are
ihe prices o the law materials—what the expen
ses of diflili.ition, and what the price of the dif
ferent fpintsin the marke ?—The former price
of mobiles was one-fourth of a dollar per gallon,
which will produce one gallon of mm. The
price of dillilling, is about three and an half cents
per gallon. The market price of ffic spirit is
affumedto be five (hillings to .5/6, The price
of rye is said to be three (hillings per bufliel.
But it is certain no part of the United States is
lo fertile, a<i that the labour employed in pro
ducing one bushel will not tic worth one third
ofa dollar. The bulhel will produce two gal
lons of whilkev. The pi ice of dillilling is, 1
believe, one (hilling per gallon. It is not
lower, however, than nine p nee. The liquor
lells at one third of a dollar per gallon.—lf this
is a true flatement (and it has been often made
and not contradicted) gentlemen muff lee that
the proporiion is not jufl.-—lt operates in favor
of the i'lflillcrs from molafles. Their profits are
considerable. The other s oppressed ; and no
person will engage in it but from necelfity.
Some gentlemen seem to think ihe excise
ought to be equal on all kinds of spirits—but,
ought not the value of the article, in some de
gree, 10 regulate the pioportion ? Whifkev.
though of the fame proof wjiih rum, is yet of
inferior quality. This is fuily proved. Both
brought to the fame market, the rum will fell
for double what ihe other can be fold for. 1
ihink'it unfair to iniroduce arguments from the
hrefent price of mobiles, owing wholly to ad
ventitious circumllances. But, even admitting
ir (hould continue at the present price, ihe pro
fit to the dtlliller troin that article will be consi
derable.
The flatement made by a gentleman from
Massachusetts of the increase and flouiilhing state
of grain dtlhllerics is to me unaccountable. If
so many have engaged in the business, they have
done it imprudently, and will loon find them
lelves under a'neceffity of declining it. If rye
fells at the piice that has been mentioned—if the
Ipil i t dillilled therefrom lells at the price it is
affirmed itdoes, it is impoffiUe they car. succeed,
as may be detiionflrated by an easy calculation ;
and therefore they must inevitably lose by the
burmefs. 1 hope the duty will be reduced to fix!
cents per gallon. —If the prefer)! price of mo as- j
fes is three (hillings, the price or dillilling three
pence, the profit to the difiiller, after paying
the cxcife, is nearly Ifit on the gallon—On the
other hand, the distiller has no profit. It is on-|
ly engaged in from a kind of necefiity by those
who are lo dillant from market that their grain
.vill not bear the expenle of transportation.
Of lake SUPERIOR, or, the upper lake.
THIS immense lake, or rather inland
acean isfaid to be the largest body of frefli
ivater in America, if not in the whole
world. It approaches nearer to the form
t)f a fquarethan any of the large lakes on
this continent, and has a coast of more
than 1600 miles. The greatest part of
this coait, however is bounded by moun
tainous and rocky land, and the lake itfelf
lies upon avail bed of rocks, which at cer- -
tain seasons, from the limpid e'earnefs of
the water may be seen to a great depth,
huge, vail, and irregular, and in some pla
ces exhibiting an appearance of having been
hewn, and inclining the fpeftator to believe
that large cities had been funk by some ton
bullion of nature, of whose foundations
these were the remains.
111 summer time the waters constituting
the fuperlicies of the lake are tolerably
warm, but if you take it up from the depth
of only a single fathom,it is equally cold with
ice; the 4 long continuance and extremity
of the winters cold prevailing in the tempe
rature of the waters over the ihort and
traufient heat of the summer atmosphere.
Lake Superior is,'in extent, about 290
Engii.'li miles from north to foutlr, and a
bout 360 miles in length from east to weft;
the 48th degree of north latitude palling
through the middle of the lake, and its
western extremity lying in 93 degrees 30
minutes, welt longitude from the meridian
of London.
This lake includes several fine islands, the
undirturbed haunts of the native quadrupeds
of the sorest, secluded from other parts of
America bv the vast extent of the lake, and
far out of view of all other land. These
Islands seem never to have been inhabited
by men, a superstitious notion having pre
vailed among the Indian nations, that they
are haunted by inviiible powers, inimical
lo the race of man, avenging with the ut
1110ft severity every a tempt to penetrate
thofj lonely forefts.
One of these I flands( Roy ale) is at least
one hundred miles in length and about for
ty five ill breadth ; Maurepas is femething
less, both are covered with thick woods,
and inhabited by deer, foxes, rabbits and I
few other quadrupeds, if any. How
rhefe Came there, isaqueftion nor easy to
be fo.ved, uulsf; we foppofe withfom.'free
philosophers, thu the earth, 'tfelf i-. alike
productive o 'vegetable and au'mal life.
Tjie water '.irge extent o'" this lake
uSoOr oo f'ath.j.jii deeo, and i:i fume pla
ces is said to be Un r ati»vrfab'e. Tile na
vigation i 3 equally, if not more hazard
oils than that of the Atlantic, the wave -
1 vvelllug to a vail height in gdes of wind,
a i I at the fame time I'o (ho t, that it is dif
ficult for a veflel to rife them —Filh abound
here, particularly the sturgeon aid the
trout which grow to a lize 11:1 mown i i the
more ea'tera part •• of the United States.
Many rivers empty into Lake Superior,
of which two are very large on the north
and north ea!t. And partly are dißhar
ged through -it. Mary'sStreights into Lake
Huron,' partly through fubteraunean pas
sages.
Notwithstanding the pretended influence
as the mo m upon tVe waters of the great
iceun, so as to occasion tides, Ihe is found
:o have no such influence over the waters
a. Lake Superior ; which die surely would
lave, to a sensible degree, if there were
any truth in the Newtonian theory of the
tides. —There is a gradual swell however
in the lake, which riles to about 3 feet four
aches in seven years and an half, and in the
fame space of time again falls gradually to
its former level : Nearly the famethingis
observed of the Caspian sea, in Alia.
May 15.
PHILADELPHIA.
May 17, 1792.
On Friday last the Gbvernor of the State
>f Pennsylvania laid the corner-stone of
lie Prksident's House in Ninth-street.
The following infeription is on the Hone—
' This Corner-Stone was laid en the loth of May,
>7j 2 - The State of Pcnnfylvama out of debt.
L HoMAs Mifflin, Governor The build
ng will be about one "hundred feet square.
A letter dated"Cumberland, April 2d fays
•The Indians have commenced hostilities
igainft this country upon every quarter :
,ve believe them to be the Creeks and Che
-okees, from the belt information that can
■>e obtained. They have lately taken a
lation, and committed several murders and
lepredations upon our frontier fettle
nents."
By a Cape Francois paper of the 15th of
\pril, it appears thai the rebellion in Leo
rane is, in a great degree, crulhed. Two
if the negro chiefs have been taken and
)Ut tu death, and the riuilattoea in that
quarter (it is said)' have laid down their
arms.
A new town, in South-Carolina, was be
?un to be erected early in April last at the
confluence of Broad and Pacolet Rivers,
to be called Pinckneyvitle, from the refpeita
ble family in that'ftate to which the name
alludes. Scarcely had the name, however,
been officially conferred upon the infant city
when a tremendous frei'h poured down the
two rivers, from previous heavy rains, and
overwhelmed all thdt had been done, in
promiscuous ruin ; thus disappointing the
expectations and labors of the founders,
who, like Romulus of old, had been but a
few days before comparing their situation;
to his, when employed in cutting awry
bufhesfrom thi spot which was afterwards
the feat of the mistress of the world. The
commiifioners, we hear, have (ince agreed
to change the polition of Pmckneyville
to a pleasant, romantic, and more eleva
ted situation farth er up, 011 the banks ofl
Broad River, not far diltant from the con-J
fluence before mentioned, and nearly in the
centre of one of the molt delirable coun
tries in the world, the back-parts of South-
Carolina.
A late New-York paper afierts, that
there are now fettled to the weltward of
the Seneca Lake, in that state, upwards of
four thousand inhabitants, chiefly industri
ous emigrants from Mafiachufetts and Con
necticut, and whefe numbers are daily and
rapidly increaling. The fa'mejjaper repre
sents the projected northern and eaflern
canals in that itate in a fair way of being;
carried into execution, and, probably, com
pleted in the course of ten )ears, whereby
a navigation will be opened into the heart
of the American continent ; the far greater
part of the way, on those immense bodies
of frefh water called the Lakes ; and,
where they fail, by means of locks, canals,
and natural communications. It is com
puted that in ten years after the canals are
completed the produce now brought to
New-York market will be increased at least
one third.
Accounts from Pittlburg as late as the
sth and 6th of May mention no further
particulars of Indian depredation, of conse
quence. Even those already publilhed appear
to have been in lome degree exaggerated.
Considerable misunderstandings have pre"
vailed between the merchants of this port
and the pilots for the Delaware, relative to
the rates of pilotage, which by the latter are
thought too low ; who now demand one
dollar for each half foot draft of water, for
ve3ei-; drawing; 12 feet and under ; sfld nfi
per half foot for veflels above that draft—
1 id require veflels not regiftererl within the
United States to pay 20/ with fdine other
demands, which are either disagreed to by
the fnerchants, or taken no notice of. In
conference of these mifunden landings,,
several 'large veflels, ready for sea, h;ive
been some.time detained at the wharves,
the pilots having refufed to take charge of
them unless their demands are allowed.—
Some of the captiins have determined to
proceed to sea without pilots, relying on
their own {kill, fhallop-inen, and the direc
tion of charts ; a considerable number have
already filled, and others ire jveparino; to
follow, at a risque easy to be conceived of
by those who hare any knowledge of the
intricate navigation of Delaware Bay, and
the d :mger of a heavy ship grounding on the
Ihoals.
By a late arrival F.nglifh Newspapers are
received, Lo the 10th of March. Nothing
very material occurs in addition to prior
accounts. —Abolition of the /lave trade
seem to be the great topic in England and
Scotland, and the parliament had "been aU
most univerfaHy petitioned 011 the fubjefl—
the emigrated French nobility and princes
hadpubliflieda manifefto fignifying that the
courts of Russia, Turin, Madrid, Vienna, &
Berlin are to guarantee certain parts of the
French conftitntion,—- notwithstanding
which, many were of opinion that a war
between France and a combination of Eu
ropean powers is inevitable—l'aris was 111
a good ileal of confufion, as well as some
orher parts of the kingdom, which was
wholly imputed to the intrigues of clubs,
particularly the Jacobine.
Let any person look around the several
seaports, both in this and other dates,(favs
the Boston Independent Chronicle) and observe
the persons who have acquired property
since the adoption of the federal constitu
tion. On enquiry, he will find speculator*
in general to be the men. The industrious
merchant has been the hackneyed drudge thro'
the whole bufitiefs. The store of the mer
chant is filled with articles of merchandize,
for which he is in advance to the government,
thousands; while the gambling speculator
is receiving his quarterly payments at the loan
office, and at the fame time not helping
government one penny to encreafe the revenues.
But what is more diftrefling, additional du
ties are now laid upon articles of commerce
—to be appropriated, not barely to pay the
debt already contracted. but to provide for an
immense one, to be contracted, for carrying on
the in t dian war ! —The property of our
merchants is to be squandered in the wil
derness, as if the commerce of the United
States depended for its success on the scalps
of the innocent natives, and the acquisition of
their uncultivated territory. This measure,
it is probable, will prove serviceable to the
War Department, but why Commerce is called
on to aid the sanguinary purpose, is a ques
tion too'ferious not to demand a fatisfaflory
answer. —Boston, and the other sea-ports,
can but ill afford to pay " additional duties"
towards this western expedition.
Very wholesome advice is administered
in a Boston paper of last week, relative to
the popular choice of Legislators. Sufficient
caution is there given to the people, 1 ft, to
choose 110 man wno is remarkable for a su
per-abundance of low cunning ; such a man
in a legislative body will always have his
private interests more at heart than those
of the public. —jdly. Twijlical characters,
who are ealily swayed, and will a (Tent to
any queftio;l that promises to favor felf or
party intereft.—jdly. Speculating charac
ters ; men who creep into legislative bodies
with a design to turn their legislative know
ledge ol J!ate secrets to private purposes—
4thly. Greek and Latin not to be elfential
qualifications.— Jthly. Legislators ought
not to be concerned in pilot-boats, bound
fur the modern Colchis. Such, if put to
the test, would ill all likelihood, fell their
country for a scrip. As Plato wrote over
the door of his academv, Let no one enter here
who does no' underjland Geometry, in the fame
manner let us write over th_- doors of our
federal and state legislatures, Let no one
enter here to whom some of the above cha
racters is applicable.—" Let us not fuffer
a single ranger, speculator, or swindler in
our public bodies —let us purge the taber
nacle of all contamination by stock-job
bers, who conlider the United States as a
lottery office and the rights and privileges
of the people as a dlfcount from their pri
zes. Let us sweep the legislative floors of
luch vermin, who devour liberty in the
bud, and fuck the vitals of the honest indus
trious farmers, merchants, and tradesmen.
Let us unite, to a mail, and elect only such
as will promote agriculture, the arts, true
commerce, and the general good of the
country."
One advantage (fays a letter from New-
York) generally attends a spirit of specula
tion ; the /peculating character acquiring
his money with safe, as ealily p«rts with it,
so that it is again scattered among the peo
ple and not hoarded up in strong boxes.—■
Had the paper bubble been upheld some
time longer, it would have been impofiible
for a foot-citizen to have walked the streets.viirli fafety for the number of equipage:
That act jiilyAvere, and were preparing to
be rolled over the pavements of this capi
tal. At present their wheels being taken
o;T, they drive very heavily, or are gone in
to port; the fall of paper having in a great
degree caufedthe fv.ll of fplendor —
l'eleus et Telephus, pauper et exul,
uterque
Projiclt ampullas et fefquipedaha verba.
A paragraph appears in the Salem Ga
zette of the B'h inttant mentioning the ar
rival of a veffeJ at Marblehead from St.
Martins, which island she left the 16th of
April : and bringing an account of a brit
having arrived at St. Martins from St. Lu
ck, the i jth of the fame month, by whicl
intelligence had come to hand that a wai
was declared between France and Spain:
This intelligence, it feeins, was brought tc
St. Lucia by an Englifn man of war,
which if there be any truth in the matter,
mult have had a paflage remarkably Ihort.
Very little dependence can be put upon
t this information.
' Late Englilh papers fay that Lord Corn
wallis is recalled from India, to be succeed
ed by lord Macartney : and the Lord know
who will be the conqueror of India f In
Ihould not fucceed —Commodore Cornwal
lis is also to relinquilh his command in the
Indian Seas.
The Queen of Portugal has abfolutel)
loft her senses, and is with difficulty re
(trained from tearing herje'f to p.eces, 01
dafhiug out her brains against the walls o!
her apartment —hermadnefs ii fa.d topro
ceedfrom religious concern. — Poor Royalty !
In the late war, a certain person of ;
coxcombical character in the Americanar
" my, was, more by good luck than merit,
promoted from an infignificant ftaticn to bt
deputy-quarter-master-general in a certaii
line oftro ips. On all occasions, after this
he took care that the Initials of his officia
dignity Ihould be affixed to his name ; ft
that let the name go were it would, D, Q.
M. G. wasfure to be its constant, nevei
failing concomitant. Being at Y ark, ir
Virginia, with the troop-, at and after th<
capture of Lord Cornwallis, in order to ac
quaint the inoft inattentive pafl'enger of hi
military dignity, be procured his name t(
be affixed in monstrous large letters ove
the house where he quartered, with its ole
appendage, D. Q_. M. G. Some gentiemei
(mostly itrangers) passing by one morning
one of them could noc forbear asking wha'
those four capital letters were intended tc
Hand for; —What do they stand for ! (fait
one of the company, who knew the rjuar
ter mailer) why what else fnould the)
Hand for but D—d Quick Made Gentleviani
The phrase man in power Teems to be totall;
Inapplicable to any man whatever in the
United States. It is indeed an importec
phrase, and was firft used in England by tilt
tools of a tory junto in the latter end of the
reign of queen Anne, in order to flatter cer
tain characters, who, in fact were, for £
time, the arbitrary governors of the nation
The term man in power becomes ridiculou:
when applied to any officer of government
in this country, as no man polfelles in him
felf any power independent of the power o:
the law eftablilhed by the free voice of th<
people, to which alone we look up as ths
object of our obedience. Instead of man u
sower, let us therefore in future, read in out
American Vocabulary,_/rra2ni of the people.
PRICE or STOCKS.
S : x per cents, per £. - 21/8
Three ditto - - ii/ 5
Deferred ix ditto, - i-J
j-alhares Eank Stock 42 to 45 per cent premium.
Shares Bank N. A. 15 ditto.
Indtn s 12/3
Tinal settlements, 16,/6
Tiom Gazette ce Lisboa, (a Poituguefe pa
per) Feb. 11.
The following is a lift of the foreign yefiels thai
have arrived in a.id departed from the.Port of
Lisbon, during theyear 1791.
Arrived. departed.
Americans 74 •• 64
Kiemeters, 14 - 13
Danes, 54 .52
Dantzrkers, "3 - 3
French, 78 76
Cenoefe, 2 - z
Spaninds, - 32 31
1 Hollanders, . J24 - 115
1 Hamburgers, 16 - 16
Inglift, - 3,4 - 333
Imperial, o i
Luleckers, 5 - <3
Ivleckler. burghers, i » j
Neapolitans* - i j
PrufTuns 7 7
Rufiians, - I - I
"3° • 3°
Swedes, 6o - 54
Venetians, 22 ~ 21
Total 865 840
%* A few Copies of the Report of a Com
mittee of Congress. on the causes of the failure
of the We jinn Expedition, under Major-
General St. Clair, for fak at the, Oflice No.
203, Markct-Stnct,
For tlie NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Mr. Frcneau.
IN qubting the Gazette of the United States
a few days ago, your correspondent
KNCORE forgot to quote a passage, that
would have done great honor to the catidoi
of the Editor of that paper, and perhaps ir
some nieafure alleviated the odium, which
sever fails to attend the author and puMifh
;r of such h-vfli abusive language, a- that
which was quoted. 11l the pafTagc t allude
;o [Gaz. V. S. May 5] the Editor fairly ac
<no\v lets : '', tl-at, where one■ fntencc i
jublifiied in favor of the measures of gov
ernment, ' ; whole columns' rppe.;" oil tht
ither (ide of the question. TSow this 1 an
honest manly confefliou. But what con
.'lufion are we to draw from the premiu ;
The smallest number of columns i . two ; :'-nd
allowing two co'unras ot a r.e'iv i paper to
contain, 011 an average fifty feritence (wh ch
is a very moderate calculat.on) nuift we
tot conclude, that, since fifty times more i
written againfi the vvajures oj fever mi cut. 1 Inn
n favor of them,fifty perform disapprove, so:
jne who approves ? and that, notwitli' and
ng all the pains taken by those. who "c<z/.
'hem[elves the friends and admirers of the govern
■nen't," to tkivfi their honied b"ii:f>' of adu
latory PUFJr down the gaping throat of credu
litythe people cannot fw allow fuel
1 choaking morsels " by which u their faitt.
would certainly br [led."'
And although the junto fliould hire fifteer
more printers, one in every state of the
union, to praise the measures of govern
ment, and abuf* every one who writes a
gainst them, the people are not such fools,
as to be puffed out of their senses, and made
to believe, that black is whit*, or thai
funding systems, calculated to enrich a few
/peculates at the expense of a multitude oi
honeji men, Fxcife systems, calculated tc
ruin and oppress one part of the union for
the aggrandizement of another, &c. &c
are national bleflings. All the puffing anc
abuse of a whole legion of such printer?
will never fatisfy the independent and en
lightened citizens of America, who have
long looked for, and will have a change o:
measures at least, if not «f men also, what
ever any one news aper may fay to the con
trary. _
Perhaps we may be gravely informed it
print on Saturday next, that the very mea
sures of which I here complain, are thi
greatest bleflings that could polfibly b>j con
ferred on the nation, that a torrent of hap'»i
nefs and prosperity pours in upon the peo
pie, from funding fyfteius, ("peculating fyi
terns, banking systems, excising systems, pus
fiflg systems, abusing systems, and every o
ther kind of new-fangled systems witl
which ihe country has ot late beenlnunda
ted. If so, why is fifty limes more written a
gainfi, than in praise of them ? Perhaps i
may be answered, that the people, thougl
balk'ng in the sun-shine of prosperity, ani
wallowing in the plenitude of fublunarj
bliss, are yet so ungrateful as not to ac
knowledge the bleflings they enjoy : per
haps it may be said that they are blind ant
stupid, and can neither fee nor feel the
boasted bleflings that are praiftd up to the
stars, regularly twice a week in print. Bui
is it to be imagined, that t. e people o;
America are so blind anrf so dull of appre
hension, as not to fee ;.r.tl fVcl those might;
bleflings, if they really did exist ? Or is ii
probable, that if they did fee and vol them
they would ungratefully withhold the tri
bute of applause from the authors of tht-ii
unexampled happiness, and fu'.Fef " wholeco■
'umns' I '' to be written againfl them, for ever)
"Jinglefenttnee' l that is written in their fa
vour ! Here perhaps we may again be an
swered, that the " Friend of the govern en
are neitherblind nor ungrateful, but thai
its " enemies" are fifty times more diligent, anc:
that it is for this reason only they write si t)
times as much. But let ine ask one candid f«n
lible American, whether l:e thinks it by an>
means probable, that one of those " enemie.
of the government' (as they are called) wilt
are not goaded for i. ard bv the spur of pri
vate interest (as it is well known that some
jfthe contrary description are) and whe
jefides may be morally certain of being abu
"cd and vilified in print for daring to ex
irefs their sentiments, can poflibly feel :
hfty limesJl'onger temptation to write, thar
mian, who is interfiled in praising,— a man.
who by his fuccef fill (peculation has amaflec
.a immense fortune, which he still hopes tc
ee encreafed by (addling the nation v. ithai
rredeemable debt of eight or ten million;
nore, and thus providing for the prosperity
jfthefe "■friends of the government," who are
:o be pampered in idleness, at the expense
jf those men, who are reviled as "eenemies
;'or no other reason, than because they will:
:o retain the power of bequeathing to theii
oofterity a right to feed upon at least the
iiufks of their own corn, without being rob
jed of the whole produce .of their farms,
and reduced to feed upon the crumbs that
fall from the luxurious tables of the well
born descendants of speculators.
May 16. Anti-Puff.
*S« the Gazette ofthe U.S. of this morning.
*„* For sale at this Office., Sermons by
the Rev'd Dr. William Linn, of K. York.
Price 5/7 i-ify
Fror: tie Ntm-Ycd Dai.'v Adwtifir of May 15.
TO THE PUBLIC.
IN the Daily Advertiser of the isih intt.
ihere is a report of a Committee of Congrcfs,
>i [ th i\:u!;'S ol lb-' failme of the late \\ efleiii
; xpedition, in which J am held up in aconfpi
cu< us point of view, c:s a principal author oi
that calamitou event. 1 pledge myfelf to
••••eve i't a prouer period, and before a proper
tribunal, th: t the cha ces, a. ai 11ft me as a con
::ra 'or are ill founded' —In the mean while, I
ill exhibit to the public in the Daily Adverti
' rofThurfday next, a few palpable errors in
ihis report, in order that a proper judgment
mu\ be: formed of thislegiflative mode ol mvel
isiation. Wm. DUER.
Lave Contractor for the Troops on the
IVeftern Frontiers.
New-York, May 13, 1792.
LONDON, March 5.
Several letters from the north, inform,
that the Ruffian and Swedifli fleets com
bined, are to enter the Mediterranean in the
fpHng
A letter from Limerick, fays, "it is im
issued through the example and philan
thropy of some individuals, upwards oi
i2.ci o persons have, within these fix month:
difrontinucd the use of sugar in this ci
ty !"
Another p"per fays, "the queen of Por
tugal, we lament to hear, at present labour
under the moil melancholy of all maladies;
a mental derangement."
Although an attack upon France is si
present ! <tr from probable, we think it lie
cefTary to state that the following are re
;f)rte'l to be the forces designed for thi:
expedition:
jjc ,coo Austrian ; 60,000 Pruflians ;
17, c00 Swedes ; 15,000 Rufliun, and 80,00 c
men furnifhed by the Germanic body.— ir
all v 2,000 men.
FOR BRISTO L,
3T3g. THE SHIP
SS-frl
Birmingham Packet,
LEESON SIMMONS, Matter ;
.. ienn:kaV!e faß sailer, her cargo is all ready
iievertbelefi to accommodate those who may b(
difpoled to put freight on board, it will be taker
in. She will fail in a few days. The owner:
are determined that the ihip (hall leave Britto
with the firft fall {hips.
For freight or paiTag- apply to the Captain ci
board ly.ng at Walnut street Wharf, or
GEORGE MEADE.
Those who have goods on board are tarncftl)
requelted to enter them, takeout their permits
m:d giv; the nrceflai y directions to their porter
to attend the ship. May 16. 2av\
JuJl imported in the ship Molly, Captain Pitt,
Jrom Lijbon —
A few Pipes and (Quarter Casks of
LISBON WINE,
Farfuperior in quality to what is generally impor
ted ; arU a few Hales of the very brjl CORKS,
To be Sold by
GEORGE MEADE,
Who has also forfale, Choiee three andfive years ole
Bill of Exchange Madeira Wine,
By the Pip., or Quarter Cajk,
LONDON MARKET MADEIRA WINE
five years eld by the pipe, or Cask,
Choice old Sherry WINE by the quartercalk
Mess BEEF ofa superior quality and luch as is
fit for an East India Voyage put up ir
this city.
Choice firfl quality BEEF do.
Do Second* do.
BOSTON BEEF equal to any from thai
country.
Burlington Pork of the firfl quality.
and one hundred and fourteen hhds of
Fi, AX SEED, &c. &c.
May 16 2 a. w. im
THIS DAT AltE PUBLISHED,
[In Octavo —Price 2/y]
THE
LAWS of the United States.
Palled at the
Firfl Seflion of the Second Ccngrefs.
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY.
To whicTi are added the Ratifications of the
Amendments to the Conttitution, by the fevera
ratifying States; the Armillice between theUni
ted States and Great-Britain ; and the Treaty o
Peace and Friendlhip with the Cherokees, which
with those in the other octavo volume complete:
all the exilling treaties.
Philadelphia, printedby CHILDS & SWAINE
Printers of the Laws of the United States, ant
fold by then, at their office, No. 209, Market
_ Street ; also by the principal Booksellers in tin
city.
The Laws are sewed in blue paper, and
ire intended to be bound up with those of the
next feilion, so as to make one volume, com
prising all the Laws passed by the Second Con
crete, when a complete Index will be added for
both fefilons.
The L A W S of the
Three Sessions of the Firfl Congress,
With a complete Index, in one volume octavo,
may be had as above.
Philadelphia, May 17th, 1792,
Tnc VILLAGE MERCHANT.
SPRUNG from a race (bar long had till'd the fail
Hid firlt dis-iob'd it of its native trees,
He chose to heir their lands, but not their toil,
And thought the ploughman's lifcno lile of eale —
4 'Tis wrong (thought he) these pretty hands t«
wound
* With felling oaks, or delving ;n the ground :
' 1 who, at least, have forty pounds in cath
' And in a country store might cut a dash,
1 Why should I till these barren fields (he faia)
1 who have learnt to cypher, write, and
< These fields that fniubs, and weeds, and bram
bles bea r ,
■That pay me not, and or.iv bring mc care !"
some thoughts had he, long whi-ie, to quit the foil
In iea-port towns to. try his luck in trade,
But then their ways of living ferni'd mod odd—
ft>r dusty streets to leave his native shade,
From grafly plats to pebbled walks remold-- •
The more he thought of them the lets he lov'd :
The ciry-fprings he could not drink ; and fti 11
Preferred the fountain, underneath the hill.—
And yet no fplenriid objects there were seen
No distant scenes in gaudy colours clad,
Look where you wou'd the profpedt still was mean,
Scrub-oaks, and fcatter'd pines, and afpins fad-
Banks of a ftallow river ftain'd with mud $
A it ream where never fwell'd the tide of flood >
No lofty ship her topsails did unloose,
Nor sailor faiPd—except in log-canoes.
It would have puzzled Fauftusto have told.
What did attach him to this paltry spot
Where even the house he heir'd was very old,
And half his f :nces hardly worth a groat :
Yet so ituas, the fancy took his brain
A country fiiop might here some custom gain : —
Whiikcy, he knew, would always be in vogue
While there are country Tquires to take a cogue,
Laces and lawns would draw eagh rural maid,
And one must have her foawl, and one her fiade,
(To be continued.)
BOOKS,
Printed and fold by
< M AT H E W CAREY,
No. JlB, Market-Street, Phitadelphia.
1. American Museum, from its commencement
in January 1787, to December 1791, in ten 'vols.
Price, neatly bound and lettered, sixteen dollars.
This 11>»rk t ivhicb is new conducted on an im
broved flan, containing tie befi pieces publifkcJ.for
and a gain B the proceedings of government, will be
found to contain at leaf as great a variety of poli
tical, agricultural, andmijcellar.eous ejfays, as any
><ver publijhed in America. Perhaps in no one work
are Jo mwy valuable documents rejpe fling the hijio
ry of this country, colleEied together. His excel
lency tie Prejident of the United States, has de
clared of it, that <c a more ufeful literary plan
has never been undertaken in America, nor one
more deserving Cf public encouragement. ** The
fubfeription is is two dollars and a half per annum.
Gentlemen in the country who wijh to bs fupplicd
with this work, are requefied to give commijfion to
friends in the ciry to fubferibe Jor and receive it.
2. Ladies* Pocket Library—containing :—Mifs
Morels Eff'ays 5 Gregory's Lcgacy \ Lady Pen*
tington's advice 5 Marchionejs of Lambert's ad
vice j Swift's letter to a ncwiy married lady 5
Mrs. Chap one on command of temper j More s fa
bles for the ladies Pnice 6/6.
3. Smith's History of New-Ycrlc. from itsfirjl
r ett!ement to the year 1732. ,To which is annexed,
1 description of the country, with a port acconnt
f the inhabitants, their religious and political fate,
ind the confiitution of the courts of jujtice—Price
i dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
ie, 1.1.p. profefjor of moral philojophy and logic
n the Marifchal College, Aberdeen—Price three
c curths of a dollar. Of this book the Critical Re
viewers (vol. 69. p. 628) fay : " We have Jeen
10thing on these fubjeEis more plain, mere perfpicu
nis, or more gtnera ly ufeful
N.B. It is introduced into the University in Phi
adelphia.
5. Beauties of Poetry, Br'uijb and American,
or.taining feleff productions of the mojl eminent Bri
ifh and American poets,r.P rice four ffths of a a'ol.
6. Blair's Sermons, containing the whole of the
hree volumes of the Britifb edition, in two K 2'rice
wo dollar:.
7. Keeker's Treatise on the importance of reli
gious opinions. Price four ffths cf a dollar.
8. Examination cf the objervations of Lord Shef
-leld's on American Commerce. Price, on very fine
aper, four ffths cf a dollar.
9. t The Corjlitutions of the fever al United States,
urtth the federal Conjiitution, &c. Price five
igbths of a dollar•
10. M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition in
2tno. Prsce three eighths of a dollar.
Ik American Jcft Book, in two parts, with
wo very neat engravings, Price bound, three
ifths of a dollar.
12. Garden of the Soul, by Bishop Chalenor.
Price, bound in calf and letttred, three quarters of
: dollar.
13. The Douay Tranjlation of tic vulgate Bi
'}le, in quarto. 1' uc, elegantly bound and lettered,
50/2—/> lain, fix dollars.
14. Devout Chriltian's Vade Mccum. Price a
quarter dollar.
15. Think will on't .* or, reficSJions for every
lay of the month. Price a quarter dollar.
16. Chri(tian Economy, tranjlatcd from a Greek
nanufcript, found in the ifiand oj Patmos, where
St. "John wrote the Apocalypje, Price a fifth of a
dollar.
17. Hifiory of Charles Grandifon abridged. Price
a sixth of a dollar.
18. Poems by Col. Humphreys. Price a third
f a dollar•
19. SeleEl Poems, chiefiy American. Price a
sixth of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a large affcrtment of
books, European as well as American cditions >
which he will dispose of tn the mofl reasonable terms*
Country gentlemen, who favor him with commands 9
may depend upon being Jupplied in the mofi Jatisfac
tory manner. A liberal allowance to such ai pur
chase quantities for public libraries f cr to Jell agaij^AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft Session, begun and held at the city of
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania,
on Monday the twenty-fourth of O&ober, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT/cr raijing a farther Sum of Money for
the Protection of the frontiers) and for other
P urpefes therein mentioned.
"JT)£ it enafled by the Senate and House of Repre
-D fentatives of the United States of Amer'na in
Corigrtfs aJJ'embled, That from and after the last
day of June next, the duties now in force upon
the articles herein after enumerated and described,
at their importation into the United States, shall
cease, and that in Jieu thereof, there ill all be
thenceforth laid,• levied and colic&ed upon the
said articles, at their said importation, the several
ar.d refpedfive rates or duties following : —viz :
Wines, namely : Madeira, of the quality of
London particular, per gallon fifty-fix cents :—
Madeira, cf the quality of London marker, per
gallon, fort)-nine cents :—Other Madeira wine,
per gall >n, forty cents : — Sherry, per gallon, thir
tv-three cents : —Saint Lucar, per gallon, thirty
cents t — Lisbon, per gallon, twenty-five cents
Oport , per gall: n, twenty-live cents : —Teneriffe
anJ Fayall, per gallon, twenty cents—All other
wines, forty per centum ad valorem, Provided
that the amount of the duty thereupon shall, in
no cafe, exceed thirty cents per gallon.
Spirits, diflilled wholly or chiefly from graih: —
Of the firiV class 9f procf, per gallon; twenty -eight
cents of the second class of proof, per gallon,
twenty-nine cents of the third class of procf,
per gallon, thirty-one cents :—of the fourth class
of proof, per gallon, thirty-four cents of the
fifth clalVof proufj per gallon, fort) csnts of
the fixrh class of proof, per gallon, fifty cents.
All other djlilledfpirits :—Of the second clafa
of proof and under, per galloh, twenty-live cents:
—of the third dais of proof and under, per gal
lon, twenty-eight cents :—of the fourth class of
proof and under, per gallon, thirty-two cepts : —
of the fifth cjafs or proof and under, per gallon,
thirty-eight cents : —of the sixth class of proof
and under, per gallon, foTty-fix cents. Which
several clafles or denominations of proof shall be
deemed and taken to correspond with those men
tioned in the " adl repealing after the last day of
64 June nex', the duties heretofore laid upon dif
'* tilled fpiri s imported from abroad, and laying
tf others in their stead, and also upon fpirita dif
" tilled within the United States, and for appro
** priating the fame*"
Beer, ale and porter, per gallor*> eight cents 1—
ileel, per hundred weight, one hundied cents : —
nails, per pound, two cents :—cocoa per pound,
two cents : —chocolate, per pound, three cents'. —
playing cards per pack, twenty-five cents : —fhoes
and Hippers of iilk, twenty cents :—all other
fhues and flippers for men and women, clogs and
golofhoes, ten cents : all other shoes and flippers
for children, seven cents on hemp, for every
cne hundred and twelve pounds, one hundred cents:
—on cables, for every one hundied and twelve
pounds, one hundred and eighty cents :—or
taned cordage, for every oi:e hundred and twelve
pounds, one hundred and eighty cents on un
taxed cordage and yarn, for every one hundiec
anu twelve pounds, two hundred and Iwenty-fivc
cents: —on tw ne and packthread, for every one
hundied and twelve pounds, four hundred cents :
—on coal, per buihel, four and a half cents :—or
fa lis called Glaubtr-falts, for every one hundrsc
ano twelve j.ounds, two hundred cents.
Articles ad valorem :—China wares, lookinj
glalb, window and other glass and all manufac
tures of glass, bla<k quart bottles excepted } muf
kt.ts, piitols, and other fire-arms j swords, cur
lafl'es, hangers and other fide arms ; starch ; hai,
powder ; wafers j glue j laces, lines, fringes, taf
fels, and trimmings commonly used by upholder
ers, coachmakers and saddlers, and paper hang
ings } painters colours, whether dry or ground ir
oil, — fifteen per centum ad valorem, —calf, flit anc
relied iron, and general!), all manufactures 0
iron, lteel, tin, pewter, copper, brass, or of whicl
either of these metals is the article of chief value
not being otherwise particularly enumerated, brafi
and iron wire excepted j cabinet wares j leathei
tanned and tawed, and all manufactures of lea
ther, or of which leather is the article of chief va
lue, not otherwise particularly enumerated ; me
dicinal drugs, except those commonly used in dy
ing > hats, caps and bonnets of every fort j gloves
and mittens} dockings j millinery ready made
artificial flowers,, feathers and other ornament:
for womens head drefi'es j fans, dolls drefled ant
' undressed } toys } buttons of every kind j carpet
and carpeting } mats and floor cloths j fail cloth;
ffceathing and cartridge paper ; all powders, partes
balls, balsams, ointments, oils, waters, washes
tinilu'-es, efTcnces, or other preparations or com
positions commonly called sweet scents, odors, per
fumes or cosmetics j all dencrifice-powders, tinc
tures,preparations, or compoiitions whatsoever so;
the teeth or gums,—ten per centum ad valorem.
Provided always, and be it further enatted, Tha l
all articles which are excepted and exempted froir
doty by the " a& making farther provision foi
the payment of the debts of the United States, 1
ihall continue to be so excepted and exempted, anc
that, to the articles heretofore made free from
duty, the following ihall be added, namely, cop
per in pigs and bars, bpis calaminaris, unmanu
factured wool, wood, sulphur.
And be it further enaEted, That from and after
the laltuay of June next, in computing the dutj
hv-retofoie laid upon fait, a bufiiel of fait shall bt
rfeetrfc i hot to exceed the weight of fifty-fix pound!
avoirdupois : and as often as the actual bushel bi
fait ihall exceed the said weight, such fait shall b<
charged in the proportion of the present rate o
duty per bushel for every fifty fix pounds'of its ac
tual weight.
And be it further enabled, That after the fai<
lad Jay of june ne*t, there fhsll be Uid, lgyie<
and toJlcficJ, In addition to the present duty
thereupon, a duty of two and an half per centum
ad valorem, upon a!! goods, wares and merchan
dizes, not above enumerated or described, which,
if imported in .hips or vefl'els of the United States,
are now chargeable with a duty of five per cen
tum ad valorem.
And be it further enafled, That the addition of
ten per centum made by the second fedion of the
" ad malting farther prbvifion for the debts of
the United States," to the rates of duties on
goods, wares and merchandize, imported in ships
>r Vefl'els not of the United States, lliall continue
in full force and operation, after the said la(t day
of June next, in relation to the-articles herein be
fore enumerated and described.
And be It further enaEledy That all drawbacks
and allowances authorized by the ad aforefaid,
which hate not been heretofore abolilhed or
:hanged, ihalJ continue to operate, as in the said
id prescribed in relation to the fcveral duties
«vhich shall become payable by virtue of this ad,
and that in addition thereto, there (hall be allow
:d and paid upon provisions failed within the Uni
ted States, except upon dried filh, upon the ex
jortation thereof to any foreign portior place, as
cllbws, to wit : On pickled fifh, at the rate of
:ight cents per barrel, and on other provisions at
he rate of five cents per barrel 5 and from and
ifter the fir'ft day of January next, there lhall be
in addition of twenty per centum to the allow
mces, refpedively granted to ihips or veflels em
>loved in the bank or other cod-filheries, and in
the terms provided by an adj intituled, (i An ad
:oncerning certain lifheries of the United States,
ind for the regulation and government of the filh
:rmen employed therein," and curing the conti
nuance of the said ad.
And be it further enatiedf That all duties, draw
sacks and allowances, which, by virtue of this
id, lhall be payable or allowable on anv fpecific
[uantitv of goods, wares and merchandize, (hall
>e deemed to apply, in proportion, to any quanti
:y more or less than such fpecific quantity.
And be It further (nafied f That the teim of cre
dit for the payment of duties on fait shall be nine
months, and on all articles, the produce of the
Weft-li,d:es, fait excepted, where the amount ol
:he auty to be paid by one per fun or co-partner
hip shall exceed fifty dollars, shall be four months,
ind that the duties on ail other articles, except
vines and teas, which shall be imported after the
ast day of June next, fhill be payable, one half in
ix, one quarter in nine, and the other quarter in
welve calendar months from the time of each
;fpedive importation.
And be it further enafled, That the ad intitu
ed ** Ah ad to provide more'effectually for the
:olledion of duties imposed by law on goods,
vares and merchandize imported into the United
itates, and on the tonnage of ships and veflels,"
ind as touching the duties on distilled (pints only,
he ad, intituled, " An ad repealing, after the
ast day of June next, the duties heretofore laid
jpon diftilied fpiriis imported from abroad and
ajing others in their stead , and also upon spirits
liftilied within the United States, and for appro
mating the fame," shall extend to, and be in full
"orce for the colledion of the duties fpecified and
aid in and by this ad, and generally for the exe
rtion thereof, as fully and efiedually, as if ever)
egulation, reftridion, penalty, provilion, clause,
■natter and thing therein contained had been here
n inserted and re-enaded.
And be it further enacted, That all wines, which,
ifter the iaid Jaft day of June next, shall be im
jorted into the United States, shall be landed un
ier the care of the infpedor of the port where the
"ame shall be landed, and for that purp'ufe, ever)
jermit for landing any wines, which shall bt
granted by a colledor, shall, prior to such landing,
:e produced to the said i'nlpedor who, by endorse
ment thereupon under his hand, shall lignify the
produdion thereof to him, and the time when,
after which, and not otherwise, on pain of forfeit
are, it shall be lawful to land the said wines.
And the (aid infpedor shall make an entry of al
[uch permits, and of the contents thereof, anc
rach pipe, butt, hogshead, cask, cafe, box or pack
age whatloever, containing such wines, fhail bt
marked by the officer under whole immediate in-
Ipedion the fame be landed, in legible an<
durable charaders, with progreflfte numbers, th<
name of the said officer, and the quality or kinc
f wine, as herein before enumerated and diftin
»uilhed# And the laid officer shall grant a certi
ficate for each such pipe, butt, hogshead, calkj
:afe, box or package, Specifying therein the name
>r names of the importer or importers, the ship 01
/effel in which the fame shall have been im
ported, and the number thereof, to accompany the
'ame wheresoever it lhall be sent. And if anj
pipe, butt, hoglhead, cask, cafe, box or package,
:ontaining wine, shall be lound without such
marks and certificates, the fame shall be liable to
be seized, and the want of such marks and certifi
cates shall be presumptive evidence, that such wine
ovas unlawfully imported and landed.
And be it further enaEltd, That every per foil,
who shall have in his or her pofleflion, wines which
aie intended for sale, in quantity exceeding one
hundred and fifty gallons, shall, prior to the last
flay of June next, make entry thereof in- writing
at some office of infpedion in the city, town, or
:ounty where he or Ihe lhall reside, fpecifying a»d
iJefcribing the calks, cases, boxes and other pack
ages containing the fame, and the kinds, qualities
and quantities thereof, and where, and in whole
pofleflion they are ; and the officer of infpedion
it whose office such entry may be made, shall, as
'oon as may be thereafter, visit and infped, 01
:aufe to be visited and infpeded, the wines so re
ported, and lhall mark, or cause to be marked,
:he calks, cales, boxes and packages containing the
fame, with ptogreffive numbers, with the name Of
the person to whom the fame may brlong, the kind
Dr kinds thereof, and the words t (S Old Stock,"
and lhall grant a certificate for eachcalk, cafe,
box or package, containing such wine, delcribirtg
therein the said cask, cafe, box, or package and
the wines therein contained, which certificate shall
accompany the fame, wherever it may be lent. And
it any person whornay have wines in his or hf*r pof
fefiion forfait*, fliall not, prior to the said last day of
June next, make entry thereof, as above direded,
he or she, for such omission ornegled, fii*li fori'elj
and pay the value of the wine omitted to be enter
ed, to be recovered with costs of suit, for the bene
fit of any person who iha!! give information there
of, and the wines so omitted to be entered, ilia]
be forfeited.
And be it further eha&edy That from and afte
the last day of December next, no beer, ale o
porter £hail be brought into the United States
from any foreign port or place, except in cafkso:
veflels, the capacity whereof fiiall not be less thai
forty gallons, or in packages containing not lef
than fix dozen of bottles, on pain of forfeltur
of the faicr beer, ale or porter, and of the ship o
vessel, in which the fame fhaii be brought.
And be it further enaEied, That the several an<
respeCtive duties aforefaid, except that mention
ed in the fourth fedtion of this adt, (hall conti
nue to be levied, colledted and paid, until th
debts and purposes, to and for which the duties
litreby directed t® cease after the last day of Jun
next, were pledged and appropriated, fiiall bav
been fully paid and fatisfied j and that so mud
thereof, as may be neceflary, shall [be, and ai
hereby pledged and appropriated in the sam
manner, for the fame purposes, and with th
fame force and effect, as those, which are here
by diredted to cease after the said last day of Jun
next, and that so much of the residue thereof
as may be neceflary, fiiall be, and are hereb
appropriated for making good deficiencies in an
funds, which may have been designated for fa
tisfying grAnts and appropriations heretofor
made.
And be it further er.aEied, That the additions
duty of two and an half per centum ad valorem
fpecilied in the fourth fedtion of this adt, fha 1
continue for the term of two years, from th
commencement thereof, and no longer.
And be is further enafled, That the sum of on
hundred and fifty thouland dol'ars, out of th
surplus of the duties, which accrued to the eni
of the year one thousand seven hundred and nine
ty one, and a farther sum of five hundred an>
twenty-three thousand five hundred dollars, ou
of the surplus of the duties hereby established a
the fame (hall accrue, making together the fun
of fix hundred and seventy-three thousand fiv
hundred dollars, fiiall be, and are hereby appro
priated and applied, in addition to any former ap
propriation for the military establishment of th
United States, towards cairving into execution th
adt, intituled, u An adt for making farther an
more efredtual provision for the protection of th
frontiers of the United States. 0
And be it further enacted, That the President o
the United Mates be empowered to take &n loan
on account of the United States, from the preh
dent, directors and company of the banli ot thi
United States, who are hereby authorized anc
empowered to lend the fame, from any ocher bod)
politic or corporate within the United States, 01
from any other person or persons, the whole 01
any part of the aforefaid sum of five hundred an.
twenty-three thousand five hundred dollars* to bt
appl.ed to the purpose, to and for which the fame
is above appropriated, and to be reimbursed out oi
the aforelaid surplus of the duties, by this adt: im
posed, which surplus is, accordingly, appropriates
so the said reimburlement. Provided, That the
rate of interest of such loan fiiall not exceed fiv;
per centum per annum, and that the pnncipa
therof may be reimbursed at the pleafuie of tin
United States.
And be it further enaftedy That so much of th'
adt, intituled " An ad to provide more eft'edtuall
for the collection of duties imposed by law 01
goods, wares and merchandize imported into th
United States, and on the tonnage of fiiips o
vefi'els," as hath rated the livre tournois of Franc
at eighteen and an half cents, be and the fame i
hereby repealed.
And be it enabled and declared, That if th
principal, in any bond which fiiall be given to th
United States, for duties on goods, wares and mer
chandize imported, fiiall be insolvent, or if fuci
principal being dead, his #r her estate and eiiedts
which (hali have come to the hands of his or he
executors or administrators, shall be infuuicien
for the payment ot his or her debts, and if, i:
either of the said cases, any surety in the fai
bond, or the executors and administrators of fuci
surety, fiiall pay to the United States the monie
thereupon due, such surety, his or he* executor
or administrators fiiall have aitd enjoy the lik
advantage, priority and preference, for the re
covery and receipt of the said monies out of th
estate and effedts of such insolvent or decaafe'
principal, as are reserved and secured to the Uni
ted States, by the forty fourth fedtion of the adt
intituled t( An adt to provide more effedtually so
the colledtion of duties "imposed by law on goods
" wares, and merchandize imported into th
" United States, and on the tonnage of fiiips o
(t vefTels," and fiiall and may bring and mainta'n
a suit upon the said bond, in law or equity, i;
his, her or their own name or names, for the re
covery of the monies which fiiall have been pai
thereupon. And it is further declared, That th
cases of insolvency in the said forty fourth fedtio
mentioned, fiiall be deemed to expend, as well t
cases in which a debtor, not having fullicien
property to pay all his or her debts, fiiall hav
made a voluntary afiignment thereof, for th
benefit of his or her creditors, or in which th
eflate and effedts of an abfeonding, concealed o
absent debtor fiiall have been attached by procef
of law, as to cases, in which an adi of legal bank
ruptcy shall have been committed.
And be it further enabled, That the Prefiden
of the United States be, and hereby is authorize!
to appoint such place witnin the diftridV of Ver
mont to be the port of entry and delivery wunii
the said diftridt, as he may deem expedient, an
thing in the adt, intituled " An adt giving effed
to the laws of the United States within the ftat
of Vermont, 0 to the contrary notwithstanding.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of th
Houje of Representatives.
Richard Henry Lee, Prefiden
pro tempore of the Senate*
Approved, May second, 1792.
G.WASHINGTON,
President of the United States
Wajkington } in the Territory of Columb.a.
A PREMID M
OF 500 dollars, or a medal of that value,
at the option of the party, will be giv
en by the Commissioners of the Federal
Buildings to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July next, shall produce to
tliem the most approved plan, if adopted by
them, for a Prendent's house to be erected
in this city. The lite of the building, if
the artill will attend to it, will of course
influence the afpeft and outline of his plan,
and it's defoliation will point out to him
the number, lize, and diliribution of the
apartments. It will be a recommendation
of any plan, if the central part of it may be
detached and erected for the present, with
the appearance of a complete whole, and
be capable of admitting the additional parts,
in future, if they (hall be wanting. Draw
ings will be exptfted of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and fecfions
through the building in such directions as
maybe necellary to explain the internal
itriivfcure ; and an eft imate of the cubic feet
of brickwork, compoling the whole mass of
the walls. The Commissioners.
March 14.
Wajhtngton, in the Territory of Colundij.
A PREMIUM
OF a lot in this City to be defignatec! by
impartial judges and 500 dollars ; or a
medal of that value, at the option of the
party, will be given by the Commiffionerg
of the Federal Buildings, to the person,
who, before the fifteenth dr.y of July 1792,
(hall produce to them the most approved
plan, if adopted by them, for a Capitol to
be erected in this city, and 250 dollars, or
a medal for the plan deemed next in merit
to the one they ihall adopt. The building
to be of brick, and to contain the following
fujartmeiats, to wit. r> . _
A conference room 7 h' 1:0 H
A room for the He- 1
prefentatives J 3°° persons
A lobby or antichamber to the latter.
A Senate room of iaco square feet
area.
An antichamber or lobby to the last.
12 rooms of 600 square feet area, each, for
committee rooms and clerks offices, to be
of half the elevation of the former. Draw
ings will be expected of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and feftions
through the building in such directions as
may be neceflary to explain the internal
structure, and an estimate of the cubic feet
if brickwork compoling the whole mass of
he walls. The Commissioners.
March 14.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Subfcnber has it in contemplation foontt
decline bis present bvjinefi— and having on
band a considerable quantity of fjperfint second and
elafiic cloths, together ivitb a variety of other arti
cles in his way, prepofesto ft: I them at the following
reduced prices- V / Z t
BeJ} Superfine navy bluz 34J,
Ditto, ditto, Scarlet 365.
Common colours fupffint 3 is*
Elafiic Jlripes 9s.
Lcmdon buff and ivbitt cafftmers 15/6.
Ditto, coloured do, 15 r.
Tork/hire do, do, 1 y6.
Striped tailenets 145.
Ratrinets 33.
Striped Nanlteths -3/4.
A variety of ivaiflcoatfkapes proportionably b-XLTj
Fancy buttons and trimmings do,
London btflJilk hofe t from 22/6 to 245.
The above goods have been moflly imported front
one of the fyjt Mercantile bouses in Lcndov, and
are of an equal quality to any imported into Ameri
ca J they 'will be fold per piece or Jwaller quantity
as may befi suit the purcbajers ; by tb>publics moli
bumbleftrvar.t, JOHN SHEPHERD-
No. 3 South Fourtb-flreet,
Any person disposed to purc!i.ile the whole
>f the above flock, may also have on reasonable
cerms his present dwelling house, together with
the store, a more eligible lituation for business in
the tailor's line is not to be found in this -city*
The advantage of this bulinefs* being so Weil efta
□ jiihed by the proprietor will be very grcar, and
frorn well known fadis, needs no comment
A lease of fix years may be had of the house.
May 14, initi, tf,
MACKINTOSH'S DEFENCE.
This day is publiftied, by William Young, Book
seller, No. 52, Second-ftrect, the corner of
Chefnut-ftreer, price 2~3dsof a dollar in boart!;,
A DEFENCE
OF THE
French Revolution.
And its ENGLISH ADMIRERS, against the ac •
cufations of the Right Honorable Edmund Burke;
including some 11 r i ure s on the late production'of
Monf. De Calonne—
By' J AMES MACKINTOSH.
N. B.—Ditto with the French Constitution-, 39
accepted by the King, 13th September 1791*
Price in boards 3~4ths dollar.
April 13. 3t.
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S and SWAIN E,
AT THEIR OFFICE, NO. 20g, HIGII-STRE2T
N NEAR FIFTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA.
£,H
H- S"
r~' C.
n'
£.0.
o c
5
£* o
Q