[Numb. 14 of Vol. ll.] SATURDAY,
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Mr. Freneau,
Believing the following fads to be worthy of
general record, inall the news papers and
cilmanacts, through which much ufeful
'.notvledge is imparted, it is requejltd
they may be duly noticedfor that purpose
in your paper.
r T~UAJi great Frederick lid of Pruflia,
_I_ who was an excellent farmer, ob
serving experience had demonstrated that
a mortality among the cattle was more
frequent in Brandenbourg than in Silesia,
made enquiry into the califes thereof.
Two reasons were discovered which occa
sioned tliis difference. The firft, that in
Brandenbourg, no use was made of fait,
fcs was the cullom to do, abundantly, in
Silesia : And the second, that the inha
bitants of Brandenbourg, did not grass
feed their cattle, under cover, as those of
Siltjfia did, from long experience of the
advantages thereof ; but I'ufFered them to
graze in the fields, in feafoi:s, when fjme
times the mill dew had poisoned the
herbage. After the Silefian mode of feed
ing and faking cattle had been introdu
ced in Brandenbourg, the mortality visi
bly became less frequent, and the land
owners did not labour under so many mif
fortunes as formerly. These fails are par
ticularly recommended to the attention
of the inhabitants, of those parts of Ca
lolina and Virginia, which have fuffered
many years, and continue to fuffer,
from the great mortality among their
cattle.
In a pnrt of Brandenboutg and Porfie
ranin, there we" krg- f of high
lands, diflant from rivers and rivulets,
which consequently could not be watered, <
and therefore wanted palturage, and the
ilrength of foil necessary for cultivation, i
This was rather a local defed than one
arising from want of induflry in the pro
prietors ; and though man is not permit- <
ted to change the nature of things, the
king thought proper to direCt some at
tempts, that experience might teach, what
was, and what was not, practicable. For
this purpose he had recourse to an Eng
lift farmer, by the aid of whom efiays |
were made on some of the royal farms, t
His method was to sow those poor and (
sandy lands with turnep feed j the turneps ,
were fuffered to rot, after which the ,
lands were sowed with clover and other (
grass feeds , and thus were transformed I ]
into artificial meadows, by the aid of 1 >
which, the number of cattle was greatly |
increased on each eflate. These experi-1 j
ments having been so fuccefsful, care was ,
taken to generalize a species of agricul
ture so advantageous, through all the pro
vinces. A great improvement to this } |
mode would be to winter feed the turnep
ground with sheep, hurdling 01 inclosing ,
them by a worm fence of light rails within ,
a space of a quarter, half or a whole acre, ,
at a time, according to the number of -
sheep ; and in the spring of the year, to
sow the ground after two good plough- ,
ings and harrowings with bailey and clo- ,
vcr feed.—Two bufnels of barley to the .
acre ; and after it is up, to one, two or ]
three inches, sow eight pounds of clover
feed or more peracrerollingthe clover feed ,
in if convenient. The earlier you can sow |
your barley in March, April or May, (ac- ,
cording to the season and climate) the '
better ; provided your ground be fuffici- (
ently dry for ploughing. After yourccl- t
ver has been in one, two or three years, ,
the ground will bear a good crep of wheat i
or rye, which should be sowed on a fingie i
furrow or ploughing, in September, liar- ,
rowing the grain in, lengthways, and not t
cross ways of the furrow. Then turn
the stubble in with the plough as soon t
after harvefl as you can, and the next sea- [
son low the ground with turneps as before, I
after ploughing the ground and cross t
ploughing it well, as often as you can : c
And if you can give it manure, before v
By P. FRENEAU: Published Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
ploughing, so much the better—-This
completes what is called a cojrfe of crops.
Take care not to sow Clover on ground
f that lies wet in winter and not to impove-
I rifh your ground by covetously feeding
I your clover too dole—When this mode
? of farming orcourfeof crops shall be ge
• nerally adopted on the worn out lands
in Virginia, infinite advantage! will be c!e
, rived from it, to that Hate. From ita
■ climate and otiier it will be
come the molt plentiful and lichelt coun
try in the world, and will supply wool,
equal to the consumption of all America;
for the means of manure arc there athand,
and the paorelt of their lands may be
made more profitably productive, than the
belt lands in Kentucky* where many of
their bed citizens are emigrating to. Let
every gentleman farmer in Virginia, en
close ten acres, make a fair expeiiment,
keep an exaCl and candid journal of his
management, and the issue of his experi
ment, and make known the result:—They
cannot do a greater public good ; to en
able themselves to do so, they ought to
encourage some merchant or tlore keeper
in each of their trading towns to import
from Philadelphia or New England, the
necefTary turnep, clover and barley, for
feed immediately. Clover feed m y behad
there, generally, at I-8 of a dollar per lb.
barley at 6s. per bullitl, and turnep feed
for a trifle.
A Travelling Farmer.
N B.lf the agricultural observations
the Travelling Farmer (hall make in his
tour through the United States, may be
acceptable to the public in genera!,
they shall be communicated from time to
time, dnd any queries put to him or re
quelts made by gentlemen, in any of the
ltates, through the National Gazette,-
shall be attended to in due time.
December 13
Original letter from the Hon. JEdanus Burke,
chief jujfrce of the Jlate of v ou<h Caroli
na, to the Rev. Ezra Stiies, 1). D. Pre-
Jident of Tale College.
Philadelphia, September I i, t 702.
Dear Sir,
SINCE I had the pleasure to fee you,
I have often re9e£ted on the hard fate of
Generals Whalev & Goffe, and Col. Dix
well, three of those patriotic republicans,
who fat as judges on the trial of king
Charles the firlt. I confid r the decisive
heroic spirit of that daj, which dared to
bring kingly despotism to public juflice,
as nearly relate.: to that spirit of kindred
boldness, which lately in America anima
ted our citizens to oppose regal oppression, '
and efFeCted our independence. Nor do
I think the less of the patriots of 164.8,
because they failed of success. The peo
ple of Britain went back to the flefh pots
of Egypt, and relapsed into all the servi
tude of the old monarchy, because the
world was not fufficiently enlightened to
avail themselves of events. The princi
ples of government, and the rights of man
not being well understood, lay prostrate
under the fatal prejudices of the times, and
a superstitious idolatry for the name of a
king.
But the wretchedness of the old world
ought not to extinguish our reverence for
the memory of Whaley, Goffe, and Dix
well, who lie buried in New-England.
Those gallant men flood forth for the
canfe of liberty, in dark, dismal times, in
the parliament army. They were eye
witnesses of all the miseries, of the infi
nite Daughter on the field and fcaffold,
with the total ruin of families, which ii
was the lot of that country to fuffer from
the tyranny of their king.
Their story, and the diftreffe3 which
they fuffered in America, are known to
but very few. To think of the tedious lire
long nights and days of sixteen or seven
teen years through which they pined in
concealment and distress. hunted as they
were by the hues and cries, and purfui.
December 15, 1792.
i vants of k:,lg Charles the second ! It is
hardly poll-ble that their fate can be a
matter of i .difference to any man whose
head orha-d held a share in our late glo
rious revof.ition. For had the republi
(fans of At.-rrica failed, as those of Britain
did, our iilt llrious Washington, Hancock,
and Samiii 1 Adams, with the red of our
gallant pa/riots, would have been hunted
down by uyail proclamations and pur
suivants, a t), like the ill fated Whaley,
Git, ano: Diiwell, without a place to
lay their b ids, or a friend to.give them a
morsel of ~read, but with terror of his
life. Peace be to the fiiadeS of the wor
thy piefby erian clergyman, who afforded
those unlu.ppy patriots shelter and protec
tion from j-.ingly vengeance ! It does high
honor, ir» my opinion to the people of
New England, and, it would aJd to the
l'iftre of it, if yourfelf, Mr. Pierpont
Edwartfs, and the other citizens of New
haven, who have hitherto been guardians
of DixweH's allies, would zealously under
take the railing of a final! monument to
the memory of those three rtHS.I with a
plain claffieal inscription in Englilli. If
wouid be doing iomething more than re
cording the republican principles and
goodneis of heart which diitinguifhed
your ancestors : Such a monument, Sand
ing in front of your college, where Dix
well lies, would be to the youth a good
lesson and conspicuous example, that the
fame of brave men, who und'ergo hazards
and fuffer In (he cause of public freedom,
is not to pcrifh utte.ly .' though the world
and its affairs may change ; though ge
nerations of men, and years, and ages may
pass aw» , yet, after all, a rewarding pro
vidence may, out of some circumltance or
other, produce a refurredlion to their re
putation, and guard it from oblivion
I have to offer an apology for anti
cipating sentiments, which I am persua
ded rnuft have frequently impressed your
mind, glowing as it is, with a fervent'love
of liberty under a republic. With prin
ciples like these, I think, it is impossible
for a man to behold DixweH's grave with
out veneration for his memory, and wish- ]
es, that some such plan could be exeeU- ,
ted. If you will undertake the business i
so far as to give it an origin in Newha- i
ven, lam persuaded you need not fear ,
for the execution of it. In Philadelphia ,
alone, the materials could be filrnifhed, ,
and sent round by water, with an artill i
to set up the work. But lam one who i
would be for not allowing that city alone '
to monopolize the merit of it. There are !
in Bolton. Newhaven, New-York, and i
other parts of America, republicans who
would wish for the honor wf participating
in the promotion of it.
As I am to leive town to-morrow, and
set off for Carolina, if you address an |
answer tothisletter to chief justice M''
Iveart, he will o' r >en a communication with
you on the fubjedl. That gentleman
with the Rev. Dr. Ewing, and some other
worthy men here, wiil proceed to adl as
soon as you originate the business.
That you may live long, and enjoy all
the blessings which talent 3, learning, and :
virtue ought to bellow on yoti, is my ,
sincere wish.
I have the honor to be, with great
esteem.
Dear Sir,
Your fiioft obedient humble femflt,
jE B U 11K E.
PLAN OF DEFENCE
AGAI N S T
THE TYRANTS.
From a Paris paper.
The important queflion of the moment
is to determine, whether the duke of
Brunfwick will reach Paris.
Those who fay he will, are the aristo
cratic party, who most ardently desire it,
and the minds who fear his approach, relt
[Total No. 118.]
! their argument on his great military ta'
' sent ' s ; on his having a cool head, fit for
: grand calculations.
1 'icy assert, he has a w-ell dicrefted planj
that the French have none ; that he has
an army of veterans ; and that we have
only a number of raw, undifcipli'ned fol
dierj ; that he receives regular intelligence
from our garrifous and armies : that the
desperate emigrants under his command
will form a nucleus, around which all the
malcontents of the kingdom will gather;
that as soon a? two places are taken, it
will be impoffiblc to oppose an army of
100,000 men marching in three columns,
with its own garrilons behind it, and the
Austrian forces laying watte all the coun
try on their march ; disarming the patri
ots to arm the malcontents ; witti light
troops in their van, to kill, plunder, Vied
burn; and onclude by taking poffefiiohr
of our most advantageous p-.fts, so as to
cut off provilions from Paris, and reduce
it by famine.
Those who maintain (and think with
most probability) that Brunfwiek will not
be rjfr enough to {hut up himlelfand ar
my in France, observe that the Pruflnns
can only occupy a certain space of the
country ; tnat if they bring with
them mere neceflaries for ?.n army of
100,000 men, their march must be irate
rialiy retarded : th3t should they
to hav provilions furnilhed them on their
toad, he have only to set fire to every
thing p r eviouS to their arrival, and deva't
all Champaign : to summon in progrelfi
on all the citizens of France towards the
relief of the capital : that, all the depart
ments being armed, it will be proper to
let Lrunfivick- ddvar.ee fm-cftcagh to-fi.r
round him ; and that, by taking pofftflioa
of ail the advantageous posts, it will be ail
eaf> matter to deilroy all his men fuccef
lively, without riiking a b .tile : that as
loonashe has got about 20 leagues into tlifl;
country, we (hall (lop up every avenge
of fubliftence, andtlarvehim in his camp :
and all the ttray soldiers killed will be
carefu ly concealed, in order that the de
leterious effluvia ariling fro.n them may
occaiion a peltiferous mortality : in fliort,
the fiiends of liberty argue, that 110 armr
can hold a durable looting in an enemy's
country ) to fay nothing of the aftonifliino
efforts and enthuliafm of patriotic soldi
ers, which are unknown to mercenary
troops inured to flaverv ; and, to oppose
plan to plan, and defeat artifice by arti
fice, the bravo partisans of fair freedom
fuggelt the following series of operati
ons.
iftv To arm all the French on this fide
the Loire.
2'dly. To get poffefiion of all the ele
vated polls whereby they will be enabled
to harass the Prulfians on their march.
_ ;,dly, To burn and deilroy ail the pro
vilions and forage in every place they (the
patriots) are compelled to evacuate ; audi
prepare a general rendezvous of afyluirt
and indemnity for the natives fufferin >-
thereby.
4thly, To have an interior, auxiliary
afmy ready to march againfl the Pruffiai*
colours when about 20 leagues from Pa
ris j so as to eiuompafs, harrafs, and at
tack them on every fide ; fill them at once
with horror and despair ; and leave them
without hope of retreat or mercy, thejuit
lot of all venial and hireling tyrants.
In the mean time all the aristocrats are
to be secured, disarmed, and confined.
The next step is, if pollible, to enter Bra
bant, repulse the Auflrians on the fron
tiers, and march on with rapidity to Cod
lentz, and Mentz.
Care must be taken to man the garri
sons we leave behind. The interior troops
will be prepared to give Brunfwiek and
his followers a due reception. Should they
advance, which we apprehend they will do
cum grano falis, (with llarving bellies,y
it is an absolute certainty they would pe->
rifh in the country they mean to enfla-w.,For the National Gazette. c
f
A SUGGESTION. t
IT was an ancient proverb "that he c
th-at invented means whereby he could y
cause two spears of grass or corn to grow, £
where but one would hitherto grow, de- t
served more from his country than all the (
heroes and politicians of the age"—Why : j
—Bccaufe it is on the produce of the earth .
that we fubliit. Should not America a
dopt the following proverb, viz. He that ,
invents improvements on any art, whereby (
one man caii do as much as two men could (
hitherto do, deserves more honor and fa- .
vor from his country, than any two heroes ,
or politicians —Why ?—Becaufe there is
so great a want of men in our country, ;
that we cannot extend om' manufactures, (
nor fully cultivate our lands. And because (
it is to the arts that we are indebted for
all the conveniencies and luxuries of (
even molt of t'le ufeful productions of the
earth. Deprive us of the arts, and We !
immediately relapse into a savage state.— :
To the arts we are indebted, for our fine
farms, and plentiful harvelts—line (hips, :
andextenfive commerce —fine apparel and '
easy carriages—fine, convenient and com
fortable hjafes, andgreat&populous cities.
—Should not a wife nation nurse and cul
tivate them, by granting them all poflible
aid and encouragement, feeing that with
out them nine-tenths of us would inevita
bly perish, for want of neceflaries of life,
and the remainder be in a worse iituation
than the untutored savage of the woods.
As the precious metals and (tones, are hid
in tlie oowels of the earth, and are with
much difficulty, labor, andexpencebrought
forth and poliihed and refined for life—fo
hath nature file!" the ufeful arts, that it is
only him, that fearcheth and diggeth with I
diligence, & unwearied perseverance, that I
fhaiT find them. Therefore who is more
worthy to be honored, and esteemed by his
country, than he who fearcheth cut their
fee. t hiding places in nature, and bringeth
them forth to the aid and alliltance of rpnff.
To whom are we indebted for th' l '. great
service ? To the great and noble of the
earth ? —No ! Those things are mostly re
vealed to the humble, diffident and modest;
and they have moltly been of but low cir
cirnltances that have ever invented any
thing ufeful, because they are men that
prefer knowledge to riches. And hence
their greatest difficulty is, after they have
invented an improvement to bring it forth
into practice. Therefore, it is the inte
-1 tof a nation not only to secure to the
inventor (for a limited time) the exclusive
right to liis invention after he has brought
it into u(e, but to afflft him in bringing it
into practice, if he cannot do it himfelf :
Because. what profit is it to a nation if a
mine of gold be discovered, if it never be
ope led ?— he discoverer declareth that
he hath found a mine of gold—but 110 one
will believe him, so far as to affilt him to
open it, till they fee and feel the pure me
tal. If he goes to work alone, and neg
lects to p.ovide food and raiment for his
family, will not they starve with hunger
and cold before he can attain his end, by
the tedious and expensive process -.—when
he findeth want pinching, he is forced to
give oil! iii- pursuit, and is laughed at, and
all men agree that there is no mine there,
and no one will attempt it again for a cen
tury —How often hath this been the cafe 1
I am of opinion that no nation hath yet
hit on the mot effectual means ol pro
moting the progress of ufeful arts. They
have said to the inventor---Produce us the
pure gold from the mine, and we will Je
cure to you the right of getting all you can
for fourteen years—Whereas, they should
have said —Shew us the place where the
gold is, and convince us by good reajons that
it is probably there, andwe will all come and
helb you a day to dig it out, andyou Jhall then
have all you can get for fourteen years; you
must however, pay us for our labor. But
if you and we jiiould alike be mistaken, it
will be no great lojs to us—pay us when
you can.—lf our Congress should adopt a
patent system on such principles, I dare
venture to fay, that the ufeful arts would
flourifh in this country, with a growth un
paralelled in the history of nations—And
• as wealth and power is the offspring of
art, we would in time be able to dictate to
the world. Suppose, for instance, that a
sum only equal to one fourth part of the
savings of one improvement, that is alrea
dy brought forward (the inventor having
luckily been able to reduce it to practice)
viz.—Mr. Oliver Evanses improvement
on the art of manufacturing wheat into
flour. I have read a pamphlet wrote on
thejuftice, policy, and utility, of establish
ing an effectual patent system, for promot
ing ufeful arts ; and although I do not a
gree with the author exaCtly, I find he hath
made appear that Mr. Evans's improve
ments may, in time, save the labor of 4000
men, in this country, which, calculated at
200 dollars each, is 800,000 dollars per an
num. But to speak altogether within
bounds, fays he, it will soon save the labor
of 1000 men,which at foo dols. each, makes
100, coo dollars, per annum ; one fourth
part of which would be fufficient for a loan
to be established for the promoting of ufe
ful arts. I conceive that the whole conti
nent of Aiilerica cannot produce 25 real
inventive geninfes, or as many as could
come forward with2s inventions annually,
fufliciently,probable of utility and fuccels
to merit the alliltance of the loin ; and I
conceive that. 1000 dollars would bffuffi
cient for experiments on moll inventions.
And as all that were fuccefsful could pay
back the money, andperhapsmany of those
that were unfuccefsful, —therefore it might
be expected that such an institution would
be but a very small expence to the public,
and of great utility.
I cannot refrain hoping that some such
measure will be adopted, because I know
of I'evaral ufeful dilcoveries, that now lay
dormant for want of such alliltance, and
are in danger of being buried with the in
ventors. But if the alliltance be granted,
I lhall hope to live to fee the day when our
harvests w ill be reaped and threlhed by ma
chines moved by the strength of horles ;
our rooms in cities warmed with halt the
present expence of fuel ; and the power
of elastic fleam applied to move saws and
plaining machines, whereby much oi the
laborious parts of the work of carpenters
in building lioufes will be done by that
power, and perhaps even applied to the
propelling of tandcarriages with heavy bur
dens. I know persons that propose all
these inventions (and not without great
probability of fticcefs) as that great power
of Iteam may be applied to mar,y things to
which it has not yet been applied.
Why would we expect an inventor to
make improvements at an expence perhaps
equal to all that he is worth, when he is to
enjov it only fourteen years? What tenant
will improve a farm at his own expence,
when he is to poUefs it only that time —
If the public is to be the proprietor at the
end of the aforefaid patent term, why
not pay the expence of the experiments i
—The very hopes or expectation of a pa
| tent will cause the inventor to keep his
! discovery a profound secret (if he is not
able at present to reduce it to practice, and
take out the patent) until he or iiis chil
dresihall be able to reduce itto practice, &
* pay the patent fees; and herein appears
the ill effe£ts of that ungenerous policy,
of taxing genius by taking large patent
fees. I believe that agreat majority of the
people are in favor of patents, efpeciallv
amongst the ruling part, as hath appeared
in several inltances ; it is only a few unge
nerous, and consequently unpopular cha
racters, that are opposed thereto. But it
appears that Congress hath hitherto consi
dered the patent law, as an unimportant
object, not worthy of that attention that
other more important objeCts demand.—
When we conlider, however, that the
wealth, power, and happiness of p nation,
is always in proportion to the perfection
of the arts in that nation ; and that the
perfection of the arts is always in propor
tion to the encouragement they meet with,
surely it is evident that there never was,
nor can appear, a more important obje£t
before Congress.
ARTIST.
To the Editor of the National Gazette.
> SIR,
1 I WAS much pleased with some remarks
I in your paper, entitled " Forerunners of
1 aristocracy and monarchy in the United
■ States," by a writer who ligns himfelf
! Mirabeau- His (ignature is not unworthy
t of the fnbject ; for could that great apostle
■ of liberty and equality be called again in
< to existence, and fee follies and -vices
■ springing up with a hot-bed growth in A
- merica, which finally beget tyranny, and
1 which he lent his formidable aid to expel
1 from his own country, his indignant fpi
* rit would ruih from such a scene of depra
t vity, and rather wander in a world un
<' known. That a nation just emerged from
1 despotism, where the human mind has been
fettered for ages, and where the exfercife
t of it on political quellions constituted a
f crime, fliould set an example to Ameri
-2 cans, is a subjeCt of wonder! Well may
* they feel the hard earned laurels of their
? revolution withering on their brows, before
1 the natural period of decay, when they fee
- France outstripping them in the true spirit
1 of republicanifni, and exalting the deba
f fed state of human nature. Ostentation
3 and inequality are founds as discordant to
a the ears of regenerated Frenchmen, as To
e ry was to an American—Tho' Mr. Mira
beau has done great justice to his subjeCt, as
I far as he has gone, I will take the liberty
to (uggeft some additional remarks which
he has, perhaps, overlooked.
The ajfumption of the titles of office by
the officers of government in social life —
This vain display of superiority, at the
fame time that it designates a little and fri
volous mind, (hews their disposition for
diflinttion and inequality. In the social
communication between man and man, the
officers of government are no more than
citizens, audit must found strangely absurd
to hear of an invitation from the " Secre
tary of War" to dine, as it might be ima
gined that his cards announced a war-feaft.
This might anfvver very well in the neigh
bourhood of the Miami village, but in the
bosom of tranquility we naturally feel a
larmed at the found of war. This rattle,
which so peculiarly delights certain cha
rafters among us, ieems to n&vejeauccu
the author of the famous defence of the
American conllitutions by its Syren founds.
He never appears but in the full blaze of
office, as if every place he went to was a
senate, and every circle which he invited
needed a Vice-Prefideht —Tempora niu
tantur !
Secret deliberations of the Senate, &c —
This Patrician Itile, this concealment, this
aifeftatiori of pre-eminence but illy accords
tvith tile fpiric of a republican government.
The conftitlltion of the United States ac
knowledges no superiority ot one legisla
tive body over the other, and to ajj'ume it
is a violation of its principle, and an insult
to the character of freemen. Itisaftrange
maxim in republican policy, that the agents
of the people should keep their delibera
tions concealed from those from whom
they derive their political existence. It
augurs an unfriendly disposition in a pub
lic body that wiflies to ma/que its transac
tions—Upright intentions, and upright con
duct are not afraid or alhained of publici
ty. The spirit of a Venetian senate suits
not, as yet, tlie meridian of the United
States ; neither does the conduct of a con
clave or a divau comport with the feelings
of Americans. _
The citizens of the United States would,
no doubt, spurn at the idea of an avowed
introduction of ariltocracy or monarchy a
mong them. The people of Rome in the
time of Caesar and Augultus were not less
averse from the title ol king, but the found
'of emperor milled them. Familiarize the
mind to the shadow of ariltocracy and mo
narchy, 1 (and this feeins to be the policy of
certain characters among us) and the fub
liance mult and will follow —l.hanges of
this kind are sometimes gradual and al
rnoft imperceptible, but are not less cer
tain—What the poet fays of vice may be
said of aj'iftocracy or monarchy
—is a monlter of so frightful mein,
As to be hated, needs but to be seen ;
Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face,
We fir ft f.idure. then pity f then embrace.
CONDORCET.
December 14, 1792.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
PARIS, September 26.
The service done to France by General
Montefuuiou in his expedition to Savoy is
of the greatelt magnitude. In his politiou
at Montmelian he can scarcely be so mnch
as attacked, owing to the natural strength
of the place, where a handful of men, with
7 or 8 cannon might defy the efforts of
40,000 of the enemy, whereas, the whole
force of the king of Sardinia does not ex
ceed 27,000 men.
The female tyrant of the north, the em
press of Russia, is always threatening us
with her fleets and armies, and is as con
ftandy humbled with a cojifcioufnefs that
neither of them can ever hurt us. Some
accountsfay that 15,000, others 20,000, and
some even fay that 30,000 Ruffians are on
their march to join the two combined ar
mies, under the Duke of Brunfwick and
the king of Prussia. It is certain, howe
ver, that these troops have not yet passed
the frontiers of, Poland ; and it may be
added that the 40,000 Ruffians actually in
that kingdom, are scarce fufficient to keep
in awe a people irritated by slavery, and
the opposed faitions which are ready to
tear each other to pieces—As to the Ruf
fian fleet which was to have insulted our
coasts, they did indeed fail as far on their
way as Denmark, but for want of a fufli
ciency of men were obliged to return to
Cronltadt. so that they now cannot poili
bly leave the Baltic till next June.
The alliance of the two rival powers of
Auitria and Prussia, has given the inoft se
rious discontent to all the great statesmen
of the latter ; and has actually produced a
political schism in the court of Berlin, preg
nant with danger to the king, the conse
quences of which no man can pretend to
calculate. The war into which Frederick
the 3d has been drawn has created general
discontent throughout his dominions, which
is daily encreafing, and of which the explo
sion will, sooner or later, be terrible. The
nation complain that the war with France
is exhausting the treasures heaped up by
Frederic the 2d, and recruiting is become
■ so difficult, that the king cannot be fuppli-
with a reinforcement of only 30,000
men, that he has wrote for.
> If the people in general, in England and
■ Holland, are favorably disposed towards
i our revolution, it is held in detestation by
their Holland, it is true, is not ar
-1 tiling <; but she exclulively gives to our e
■ nemies every possible encourgement, re
■ fpe£ting loans, the hiring of transports, and
the purchase of arms and military {lores.
■ England fitted out this year only a small
I squadron, and even that is returned to
■ port, but it does not appear that any orders
1 have been given for paying off and laying
1 up the {hips that compose it. No extraor
dinary movement has lately taken place in
the English dock yards, but then it mult be
remembered, that their navy is always in
such a state, that a powerful fleet may be
■ equipped and sent to sea in fix weeks—As
to Spain, there is no reason to doubt of
, her enmity iince the deposition of Louis
tiie i6thj and, aitho' she cannot arm so
quick as England, we have every reason to
think she will take an active part a gain ft
us. Their army, however, in Europe
does not at this time confifl of more tharf
25,c00 men ; but their navy is on a some
thing better footing.
LONDON, October 1.
Thionville is another Gibraltar; the
Auflrians conftruftcd four large floating
batteries, which they let fall down the
Moselle ; when opposite the town, they
were received by a hot fire, so well direct
ed, that in a few minutes they were feet
all to the bottom, and every n an on board
perished. It has cost the Auftriaris about
500 men to get pofleffion of a hill v hich
commands the town. On this place they
crested eight batteries, which the garrison
I'allied forth and deitroyed. Gen. Quere
lande, who commands the siege, is tired of
pouring hot balls into the town, and hopes
only to reduce it by famine. At Montme
di, the French make as stout a reliftanc»;
the commander, M. de Ligneville, ha 3
been displaced, and a quarter-master of ar
tillery chosen in his Head : the garrison cf
Thionville have also deposed their com
mander. The refinance made by these
places flops the army from advancing.
General Vandermerfch, who bore so
conspicuous a part in the war of the Bra
banjon Patriots, in the year 1790, died at
his feat near Menin, in Flanders, on the
14th instant.
The French general Anfelme, has a
filler of his own with him, in the expediti
on against the king of Sardinia's territories.
She marches at the head of one of the co
lumns of the army, wearing the cap of li
berty, which greatly becomes her.
The elector of Saxony is preparing to
take the field, and fend his forces to ast
against France. On the 11 of September
the greater part of the Saxon army was
in motion, fix miles from Leipfic.
The sinprefs of Russia's army has left Po
land 011 their march for the frontiers of
11 ance,and will probably soon an ive to join
the duke of Brunf\vick,and help exhaust his
already exhausted stores. These North
ern barbarians are inured to the most se
vere hardships, and may therefore, proba
bly, be employed in harraffing the French
during the winter season. The army now
on their march (and which some fay have
reached Prufiia) are in number 25,000.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Tuesday, Dec. 11.
A report was read froiT' the Secretary
of the Treasury, 011 the petition of Abra
ham Scriberer and Thomas Cable, pray
ing compensation for losses, &c. —Read,
and ordered to lie on the table. _
It being then moved to take into conft
deration the confidential message jrom the
President of the United States, the doors
were ordered to be Ihut.
Wednesday, Dec. 12.
A letter was received from the Secretary
of War, containing a flatenient of the par
ticulars on which the sum fpecified for
contingent charges in the war department
for the year 1793, is founded —Read, and
referred to a committee of the whole on
the general elliinate of appropriations, for
1/93-
A petition was read, from Moses Young,
formerly Secretary to Mr. Laurens, when
011 his embafl'y to Holland, and to Dr.
Franklin, praying compensation for servi
ces rendered, &c.—Referred to the Secre
tary of the Treasury.
A petition was read from Samuel Forbes,
and others, praying compensation for ser
vices rendered duringthe war—Also, a me
morial from fuiidry persons, who loan
ed money to the United States between
September 1777, and March 1778, praying
specie payment of interest due, at the rate
of 6 per cent—Laid on the table.
The House then went into committee
of the whole, on the report of the Secre
tary of the Treasury, of the ellimates of
the funis necessary to be appropriated for
the service of the year 1793. —After some
debate, the committee rose, to take the
fame into consideration to-morrow.
The committee's report on the petition
of Samuel Shaw, for remission of duties
on teas imported from China, &c. was
read. The report was unfavorable to the
petitioner—Laid 011 the table.
The report of a committee, made on the
16th of April last, in favor of granting a
compensation to sundry inhabitants of
Newark, for an Academy burnt in said
town during the war—was read, and made
one of the orders of the day for Monday
next.
On motion ofMr. Fitzfimons, the House
came to the following resolutions :
Resolved, That a loan to the amount of
the balances which (upon a final settlement
of accounts) shall be found due from the
United States, tothe dividual states, be o
pened at the treasury of the United States,
and at the loan-offices in the refpeftive
slates, to commence within
months after the said balances shall be re
ported at the treasury, and to continue o
pen for the term of months from
i :he time of its commencement,That the funis to 1-,? fubferibed to such
Joans, bs payable in the principle or inte
rert of the certificates or notes ifl'ued by
any such of the said States as (upon the fi
nal settlement of accounts) shall have a
balance due to thera from tne United
States, and which /hall have been liquidat
ed to specie value prior to the day
of last.
That every fubferiber to the Add loan,
lhall be en:,tied to certificates, according
to the sum fubferibed, of the like tenor and
description, in the like proportions, and
upon the like terms, as arc fpecified and
directed by the fifteenth and sixteenth sec
tions of the act, intituled, "An act mak
ing proviiion for the debt of the United
States, 1 ' except, that interest on such ol
the certificate;, fubferibed to the said loan,
as bear interest, lhall be -computed to the
last day of the year, 1793, inclusively, and
that interest lhall not begin to accrue upon
any of the certificates which {hail be iffhed
In lieu thereof till the fir ft day of January,
1794-
That in all cases, where the sum fiib
fcribed in the evidences of the debt of any
ltate, shall exceed the balance due to fucn
state, the fame shall be reduced (in equal
proportions) to the sum afiually due to
such state."
In committee of the whole 011 the bill
to ascertain the fees demandable in cases
ol admiralty proceedings, in the court
of the United States, and to amend in part
the "act . ( or the government of feamei
employed in the merchants'fervice"—The
coimpittee difcitfled the retraining fectiorc;
of the bill, agreed to several amendments,
and then role, to take the fame into con
sideration again to-morrow.
ThursdAy, Dec. 13.
A meflage was received from the Senate,
informing the House thac they had palled
the bdl providing for the registering and
Recording of fliips or vessels, with amend
ments, to which the concurrence of the
House was requelted.
The reportof the Secretary of the Trea
sury on t!ie reduction of the public debt
was (after fomedebate) referred toa com
mittee ol the whole House on Thursday
the 27th inft.
The amendments of the committee to
the coasting bill were taken into considera
tion. Some were agreed to and others re
jected. After some debate on a motion for
requiring from mailers and owners of ves
sels a particular enumeration of all good-:,
wares, &c. (hipped in the coasting vessels
• com time to time (which was afterwards
withdrawn) the bill was laid on the table
for further confederation—as were also the
of the Senate (af.cr bei.ig
i*ead) to the bill providing for registering
and recording of ships or vessels.
A motion was then made that the Secre
tary of war deliver in to the House a re
turn of all commif.'ioned, non-commifiion
ed officers and privates belonging to the re
gular eftablillunent of the United States,
with the regiments to which they belong,
and the time of their entering into the ser
vice—Which motion was agreed to.
The House then went into committee of
the whole 011 the Secretary of the Treasu
ry s report relative to the probable expen
ditures and the neceflary appropriations
for the year 1793—Some debate enfned.
The question on agreeing to the"sum re
port. J in the eflimate for the loan-office
was carried in the affirmative. The seve
ral paiticulars in the resolutions being
gone thrdugh with, a committee of five
■was appointed to prepare and report a bill
accordingly,
PHIL ADTLP II 1 A.
December ij.
Four persons, who some months fuice,
arrived in Georgia from the Weft-Indies,
and who were soon after indicted for steal
ing on the high seas (near Martinico)
and carrying off a number of negroes be
longing to the inhabitants of that island,
were lately brought to their trial at Au
gusta, before the circuit court of the Uni
ted States lor that diftrift. Samuel Skin
ner, of Boston, supercargo of the vessel,
and who appeared to have been the prin
cipal agent in kidnapping the slaves, was
sentenced to receivc 39 lalhes (which was
executed accordingly) to pay 100 dollars,
charges of prosecution, and to remain im
prifoued till the sentence was fully fatisfi
ed. The other three prisoners were ac
quitted.—Skinner was found guilty on his
own confeflion.
It is mentioned in a Georgia paper, that
a u Part A wJlite men from the frontiers of"
that state had lately made ail incuriion to
the Cherokee nation, burnt one of their
towns, and killed three of their people ;
and that two of (even Indians, oftheafore
faid nation, who had been invited into the
iGeorgia settlements, to hold a friendly
italic concerning the late murders by Indi
ans, were killed at Ward's Mill, in Frank-
Jim county, and a squaw at the fame time
founded. On this occasion the Govei nor
Georgia issued his proclamation, recoe
£iag the ast that makes it felony to kill
y tree Indian, and ftricily enjoining the
' =nd military officers of the state to
prebend and bring the to jus-
Accounts from New-York fay, that the
people ot the territory of Upper Canada
had Some time since unanimously expressed
a deSire that the lawprohibiting theircom
mercial intertourfe with the United States
fhotild be taken olf; and that Gov. Sirri
coe bei:ig informed of their request, had
readily complied therewith. Their trade
will be by tiie western takes and the Mo
hawk river.
Let the contest in France (fays aßofton
paper) ifftie either in the establishment of
republicanism or monarchy, the United
States will be benefited by the event. The
animosity which at present exists between
the various partizans, mart conllrain those
who are ilnfuccefsful to seek an alyhim in
Tome other part of the globe ; and none
prcfents i tie If more favorably than thi:
country. [There appeari to be (Jays (,
correjpondnit) one ill Qonfequence attend
ing the French republicanifts getting the
better in the cow eft; as in caje offuch ah
sv.'Ut, abundance of arifi »; ratical and mo
narchical notions Would be imported with
the French emigrants to this country ; o)
lu/iich, in the opinion of many, we have al
ready a quantum fuScit of our owt,
growth.]
Several agents are now in the Unitec
States, conimiflioned by societies in Ire
land, and elsewhere, to make large pur
chases of lands, chiefly for intended, emi
grants to fettle 011.
J tap,.ears by letters .'r< ;n the state ri
Virgi.iii, thattTie elefbors there were un
animous in the choice of George Walhing
ton, as President, and George a
Vice President of the United Stares.
The great bridge over Merrimack river,
in Mafiachufetts, is now fmjfhed. The
whole length of this bridge is one thoufanr:
and thirty feet; its width 34 : the height of
the main arch 160 , under which a Ship oi
350 tons has pissed. The bridge conlifts'o)
more than fix thoufanti torts of timber, ane !
is formed of fever'al arches and folic! piers.
\Ve imderftarld the following are the
principal objects to come under the imme
diate consideration of the legislature of the
State of Penpfy 1 vania, during their prefeii:
feflion. —1. Making provision for the de
fence of the frontiers against Indian incur
sions. 2. The a£t of the United States for
regulating the militia ; and making proper
arrangements to enforce it. 3. The finan
cial concerns of the state, and the difpofa
of monies lying inactive in the Treasury.
[.To bring in a bill for collecting arrears
of taxes, outstanding. 5. Arranging lane
office, and other official accounts."and col
lecting marriage and tavern licences. 6.
• .. enlarge the salaries of the judiciary of
the courtof common pleas, if found to be
(as is asserted) too small. 7. To fecurc
to Ship builders, &c. payment of their de
mano: on veflels by them built or fitted.
S. Suitable provision for public schools ane
feminarles of learning. 9. Reviling the
warden and pilot laws of the port ofPhila
delphia. 10. The eflablifhment 0/a ma
rine hoipital, anr' making proper arrange
ments in tie heaitn office, ij. Arrange
ments relative to the claimants in donati
on iands. 12. Provisions for expences it'
support of government, discharge of pub
it.. certificates, pe'rfecting the honfe inten
ded for tlieufe of the President ofn-.e L ni
ter) States, and other contingent expences.
13. The enumeration of taxable iniiabi
tants, agreeably to tli£ conflitution of the
State.
14. Renewal of the bankrupt law oi
thift ate, to have effect until Coiipreft pro
vide general regulations to that subject.
' 5 That a committee be appointed tc
take into consideration such acts as expire
and require renewal, such as that foi
regulating the export of pot and pearl-sfh
for transferring the power of the fupremc
executive council to the present executive,
and as to the fisheries in the river Codortts.
—and,
16. That the house take order as to the
disposal ofthe maps 'of this state, drawr
and depolited by Reading Howell.
A pair of cattle were killed at Boston, ;
few days ago, the produce of New-Hump-
Shire, that weighed as follows :
The 8 quarters of the Beef, 303ilbs,
Hides and tallow, sg
-3616
As they had been 12 days in hard drivim
to market, it was supposed they had 101 l
about 400!bs. in that time. They were
but fix years old, and had been only crafs
fed.
A machine for extracting the feed fron
Carolina cotton has been invented by Mr.
Pierce, of the town of Paterfon, in New
ferfey. With this machine, it is said. one
man will clean seven hundred weight of
c otton per day.
We learn that a convention is called by
the council of censors ofthe state of Ver
mont, for the purpose of revifingthe Con
stitution of that state. The convention
are to meet at Windsor, in June next.
Late intelligence from the Weft-Indies.
" On the roth of November an attack
was made by a detachment ofthe patriotic
party in St. Domingo, under M. d'Aflas
upon a ftrongpoft of the negroes at Mor
nepele, which commands the camp of Cle
rjfife, and about 12 miles from Cape Fran-
cois. The negroes Were driven from then
polt, but xlie commander loft his advan
tage by evacuating it, an.l only carrying ofl
one oi tile negro cannon, spiked—the o
thers were previouflv taken away by the
negroes. As soon as the poll was defc-rted
by the whites, the negroes re-occupied it,
and again annoyed the camp. The com
mander loft much credit by this expedi
tion— The Governor of the island of St.
Xitts, in consequence of the insult some
time since offered the Britiih flag there by
M. Malvaut, the ariftocratical French cap
tain irom Guadaloupe, had dispatched a
frigate to Martinico to demand fatihfaction,
and the veifel that had been'carried off;
instead of which, the conduct of M. Mal
vaut was jurfified by the commandant at
Martinico, and the frigate returned re in
fetta —1 he iiiand of St. Lucia is the only
one that still adheres to the revolutiona!
government in France. The inhabitant;
have strongly fortified the Morne Fortu
nes-, and put cheinfelves in the best state oi
defence poffibie, having received mefl'age:
from the (ariftocratical) governments oi
Martinico and Guadaloupe, that if they dc
not strike the national colours and hoifl
the old French flag, they Will go over ant!
put them all to death.
On the 31it of October a body of i2cc
negroes made an attack on the camp oi
Clcriilf, a '"l were repulsed, by a much in
terior force, with great loft.
Extract of a latter from London, dated
October i.
" Paine has taken his leave of us, on hi;
election to a feat in the French National
■' onveution. His third part of " the
Rights of Man" was in the pre! , but with
draw n, and will probably be soon publifli
ed in trance, with the Fngliih original ap
pended to the French translation. We
liave been, and still are entertained with
accounts of a furreuder of one of the
French armies, which no body but the de -
luded emigrants here gives credit to, the
particular; of time being so circumilanced
as to defy all probability. You may there
fore set it down as nought. As to our
own affairs, among a multiplicity of them,
one great point has been l'uppofed to be
Mined here on the fide of liberty, by ap
pointing juries, instead of judges, to deter
mine what is, or what i. not a libel. This
\\ ould n turally, in fornt small degree, un
ihackle the press, were it not that a hirer
g line is playing by the ministry and their
adherents, to corrupt every press in the
kingdom, and make it suit their own pur
polls ; and, depend 011 it, sycophants e
nough are to be found to second theii
views in this respect. YOll aik me my o
pinion of Mr. i'itt—He is not here that
great man you suppose him to be. No e
neiny to the French revolution can be po
pular in this country ; and I beg in future
you would not so far prostitute the word
genius as to apply it to a scheming charac
ter, the utuioft extent of who'fe powers i<
perhaps only adequate to the fabricator
oi excises, and whose abilities are forevei
upon the rtretch, how to avoid, in financial
matters, the duett path of common ho
nesty."
A New-York paper of Thursday con
tains the following intelligence ; by a ve
ry late arrival at New'port, in Rhode-Ifi
and.
Beljaft, Oct. 10.—We have more thar
"fee stated it as our opinion, that irelai.i
is deeply involved in the progress of liber
ty in France—and not only Ireland, but
the whole world. It is therefore with much
iarisf action we now announce the defcal
of dejp>>fijm, in the flight of that redovbt
■ible hero, the Duke of Brunfwick, v. Ik
the day before his disgrace, had the auda
city to renew hi s bravados, threatcningde
ftruchon to a whole people, merely be-
Laufe they had thought proper to beltet
' !iClr con.\it:;n .'—May such a cause evei
meet a limilar fate.
Letter from General Dnmourier.
«' Saint Alenehould, Utloher r.
"At length, my dear Sen, an, what 1
expected and predicted in my letters hai
taken place. The Pruf.ians are in full re
treat. The brave Buernonvilte, who ha:
been ftiled ' the French Ajax' has taker
hom them during the two Jait days mort
than four hundred men ,fifty waggons, am.
above two hundredhorfes. All the prison
ers and deserters agree, that this army i<
exhausted by famine, fatigue, and the bloo
dy flux. The enemy decamp every night,
and march only two leagues in the 2^
hours to cover their baggage and heavy
artillery.
" I have sent a reinforcement to Buer
nonville, who has more than 20,000 men,
and who will never quit them till he has ex
terminated the>-I.—To give the finishing
blow to this tufmefs, I Jhall join him in
perjon.
" I have sent you some copies of-my
negociation, which I have caused to be
printed, because the commander of an ar
my of freemen, ought to fuffer no suspici
ons to exist respecting his conduit with
the enemy. I think that the present cir
cnmftance will deliver us from the fcour<re
of war ; and as I told you before, if I re
member right, I hope, provided you have
confidence in m'e, to eftabliih inv winter
quarters at Bruflels. You may therefore
ailure the August AfTembly of the fovereitm
people, that I lhall never seek for repose,"
until it (hall be put out of the power of ty
rants to do us any hurt— I en, brace j ou.
(Signed) DUMOURIER."
6. T'.vo letters, one front
the commissioners sent to the Camp at
Chalons, and another from GenDumou
ner, -.vere read in the convention, {fating,
that the enemy continued to retreat, and
that the road behind them was iirewtel
with dead bodies. On visiting the camp,
which they had quitted, 300 hones were
found dead and half eaten.
These letters farther stated that there
were 8000 lick in the hospital general at
Grand Pre, and 5000 at Verdun. Gen
Dumouner was of opinion that the enemy
could neither winter at Verdun nor Lono--
wy, and that they would elTeft their re
treat through Luxemburg.
We hear from MalTachufetts and R. Is
land that the Electors of those states have
iinannnoufly voted for George Wafhingiont
dent President and Vice-Pre-
Pri"er Ph T u hn'M Miller < Michael
Vil| C r ettitl ThOS L ' John Rof;
William Cramond, Walter Stewart fo°m
Leamy, John Swanwick, John Barclay.
Ebenezer Hazard, Sec.
PROCLAMATION
By the President of the United Stales.
WHEREAS I have received authent'c
nfoi mat ion, that certain lawless and wick
r<ate e of Ge . the " e/ * ern frontier, in the
vid deftrov S r'' , ! ," tcly invadc <
ana deltroy, a town belonging to the Che
nit^tfStates"' -ith the U
■' ,n e l' and P ut £o death several In
" of that nation; and whereas fneb
rageous conduit, not only violates the
D ° huinan 'ty, but also cndanoer« tiie
public peace; and it highly beco° H,
.. MrC.fiT" A s
nent of th r g mea " S for the P"nilh-
HWrf ? atrocious offenders; I V,ve
fit , t0 Il3 ' Ue £his m >' P'o
zens of rh C' 7 exhorting all the citi
all the offi 6 v.' ® tates > requiring)
f, .A. A S thereof ' acc °rding to their
defvour? f atlons V t0 » f e their utmolt en
fL.f 1 apprehend and bring those of
fenders to juftlce. And Ido moreover of
each anT ard ° f Hundred Dollars, for
each and every of the above named oer
broucht to a ?v be r " "PPrehendtd a~T
Imvo ir and (hall be proved to
have aflumed or exercised any command
crimes af^eTT 2 the , per P eu ' at °i' s the
ting the fame '" ** of
1 have
rn rh r United States to be affixed
wii h e pi f j S ' and %ned the fame
Ph 1 j y u- Done at t,le city of
Philadelphia, the twelfth day of De
cember in the year of our Lord one
thousand, seVen hundred and ninety!
vvo, and of the Independence of the
United States the seventeenth
*,*.rr.ju£; was «™=to N .
JtFFEI^SOW.
Tran J lotion of the Latin VerJ e 7in cw
NO more let barbarous Memphis boast
Bafc ftruitures, rear'd by flaWfl, hands—
A nation on the Atlantic coast
(Fetter'd no more in foreign bands)
A nobler Pyramid displays
Than Egypt's marble e'er could raise.
Columbia's fons.te extend a proof
Of. their bold deeds to future years,
Diftlain to use such vulgar fluff ;
l3ut,foaring to the starry spheres,
Materials seek in Jove's blue (ky
T' endure when brass and marble die/
Arriv'd among the (Jiining host,
Fearless, the proud invaders spoil
From countless gems, in aether loft,
Some stars, to crown their mighty toil:
To heaven a pyramid they rear,
And point the fabric with a star.
Old wafteful time ! tho' still j- ou ga ;n
Dominion o'er the brazen tciuer,
On this your teeth (hall &naw in vairij
Finding its ilrength beyond their power—
While kindred stars in heaven (hall glow,
This Pyramid will shine below!
*** A translation of the Latin Verses in
our la/t, by another hand, came too late
for ihfirtiou in this day's paper, but jhall
appear in our next.
WANTS EMPLOYMENT"
Either in a Dry-good cf Grocery Jlore —
A young man that is acquainted with both;
and can be well recommended—
Enquire of the Printer,Tables referred to in the Secretary of the
Treasury's Report, in our paper of the
Bth inflant.
TABLE fhew'mgthe effect of afum annu
ally created, equal to the interest ot the_
fuin to be redeemed within each year,
for a period of nine years, commencing
from the ift of January, 1793 —on the
supposition that the interest on the sum
annually redeemed be inverted, as it is
liberal ed, in the purchase of 6 per cent,
stock, at the pric<s of 22 ftiillings on the
pound.
L •i£8 < St'°' e | *8 •ft'GS*
o L -or ooo'J9 pajeip-mct puc in predjqsp uo yaasiuj
vz *iSV I9 iV •<)6S i L() - 9 1 9'9 Z1 * 1 i0 8' °W.P
06 •goi'Jt' 6i •619'6't' S9 - 966'9c8 ioy 1 °33ip
££-E£fr'iß £1 eS S B l>o oos 1 °«1P
Si t* • 191'W lo 66/.1 o;jip
os iL •199' it' ££ 8 6il °"!P
99-££c'66i zS •£o£'6£ 08 -B io ' s5 9 i 6-' °»IP
oS -9i6'i£e 08 "Bos6'Z.i9 96Z.1 ojjip
S -Ssf'sje 086'f£ ooo'£s* °»!P
tr -z£i'i6s ooo'££ ooo'oSS tr6ii ynUenuef
•173 -f]oq '"0 ~ s i°a ' sl '> ' s l° a
■psfoyoj-nd -fsivxiqjj -siqvuiasjia.i ■ uon s ulsv3 yT h spousj
Ajjutiuuo sums X/fonuuo f/'gu3fui fyjvnuuv suins\
Treafnry Department,
Nov. 30, 1792-
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Treasury.
—B—
Table exhibiting a Tr iew of the proposed
Plan of Redemption.
yjg Xq paui
— aapsa pnoj,
t>f coyi 0331.P
I SK ; S5! 555«32 SI SS
-l?:f I sj: SSJ
c ' /?. Tv ■HcO'qEq S c°Bl o«ip Og -850'559 i6ii ojjip
8V 2 ?6 r iS* i°'Bßi J 'ogi OM.p og6'ii y °»!P
1,1 acia 11 Vz -iicrtU S 0081 o»ip 000'tgS S6ii 0 «!P
? £6Z. tS6Moi S 66a '1 -«f ooo'oSS V6i. 1 -uef
-spa %s *o ' f /"g ?J f; g
■fiisiusj.inqiuts.i Jo spotuad-uoavMip j"
-, WW "»'A -njQWU -W™?" J%?jZp
-miuv -31. S3!tjnuu v puiiocfutos yum. psmo.i i ,
| uaqai sxvg£ -uoq siunj Jo tunouiy | -suvoj &.iv.to<ltu3£ J P ■
N. B. All the Calculations in
this Table, proceed upon a
Rate of Five per Cent. In
terest.
Treasury Department,
Nov. 30. 1792.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Treasury.
—G—
Mode of Confiituting the Proposed Annuities.
1793. Surplus dividend of bank stock, beyond the inter*
eft which will be payable estimated at 60,000 Dols. Cts.
Tax 43.199' ° 6
■ 103,199. O6
,794. Tax ic-9,39'• 60
1795. Tax ( 115,955- 17
1796. Part of annual interest converted into annuity 20,000
Tax 102,912. 48
122,912. 4°
1797. Part of annual interest converted into annuity 50,000
Tax 102,743- 12
152,743- 12
1798. Part of annual interefl converted into annuity 90,000
Tax 107,680. 20
197,680. 20
17994 Part of annual interest converted into annuity 60,000
Annuity of the firft year now liberated by reim
bursement of xft loan 1 °3» '99-
Tax 109,649. 32
272,848. 38
[800. Part of annual interest converted into annuity 220,000
Annuity of 2d year now liberated by reimburfe
nient of 2d loan 1 °9»39 1 -
Partof arrears of interest to be applied for balance
of annuity of this year 94, i- °4
423,583- 64
But a supplementary provision will be to be mads
for the fecund year, equal to the sum of 94,192
dollars and 4 cents, as the fund in that particu
lar is not annual. This may alio arise from
the arrears ofintereft.
The payment to be made on the ift of January
1802, may proceed from the following funds—
Amount of annuity of 3d year liberated by reim«-
burfement of 3d loan "5,955- 17
Unappropriated arrears of interest 200,000
Temporary loan 810,661.27
1,t?6,616. 44
Treasury Department, November 30, 17921
J y r ' ALEXANDER HAMILTON.
—D—
View of REDEEMING FUND to and upon the ift January, 1802.
INTEREST which will have been liberated by purchafesand payments
into the Treasury, exclulive of Redemptions according to the propo- Dols. Cts.
posed plan 65,000
fan. ift, 1794, by redemption of 550,000 dols. rate 6 per cent. 33, 000
:litto 1795, by ditto of 583,000 at dittto 34,980
ditto 1796) by ditto of 617,980 ditto 37,078. 8c
ditto 1797, by ditto of 655,058. 80 ditto 39,3°3- 52
ditto 1798, by ditto of 694,362. 33 ditto 41,661. 73
ditto 1799, by ditto of 736,024. Cl 7 ditto 44,161. 44
ditto 1800, by ditto of 780,185. 52 ditto 46,811. 13
ditto 1801, by ditto of 826,996. 65 ditto 49,619. 79
ditto 1802, by ditto of 1,126,616. 44 ditto 67,596. 98
k ————
459,213- 39
TAXES which will have been laid
-1793 dollars 43,'99- 6
1794 109,391. 60
1795 115,955- 17
1796 102,912. 48
1797 102,743- 12
1798 107,680. 20
1799 109,649. 32
691,530- 9'
Surplus dividend ofbankftock beyond the interest which will be
payable out of it 60,000
Dollars 1,210,744. ■}<
Amount of INTEREST converted into ANNUITIES.
1796 dbllars 20,000
1797 50,000
j 798 90,000
1800 220,000
Arinual sum at the end of 1800 380,000
Trea/ury Department, November 30, 1792.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON.
METEOROLOGICAL. OBSERVATIONS. BANK OF THE UNITED STATES»
December '79 a - Philadelphia, Nop. 20th, 1792 <
D. B Bar. Tbtr.\mni. math. rp HF stockholders of the bank of the
Tut/day, 4. 7 30.15 34 S. s. WCob j>. United States are hereby informed
2 3 °* ? —11 ! 1 -lill— that according to the statute of incorpoi a-
IVcdntfdoy, 5. 7 30. a 44 S.S.W-foggy. t ion, a general eleffion for twenty-live Di-
_ t 3°- 07 44 s - w - c - ou ''y■ re £tors will be held at the bank of the
Tburjday, 6. 7 30.15 43 calm Foggy. United States, in the city of Philadelphia.
2 30.04 48 calm Cloudy. on Monday the seventh day of Januar)
Friday, 7. 7 30.02 29 N. Fair, next, at ten o'clock in the forenoon.
2 30. o 31 N. Fair. And pursuant to the eleventh fettion oi
Saturday, BT~7 29. 83 ~~z\ W. Fair. the bye-laws the stockholders of the said
2 29.80 36 W. do. bank are hereby notified to afiemble in ge-
Fan. neral meeting, at the fame place, on
2 2q. 4' w - Cloudy. Thursday the eighth day of January next,
-rz — ——— T~~~ at five o'clock in the evening.
Monday, 10.7 29. 9 By order of the Prelidentand Directors..
2i 9 31 do. do. y john KEAN< Cajh . er _
~ ___________ t- J- 5-
[From a Connecticut Paper.J Soon will be publi/hed
To the Public, the system of
VIEW of the extraordinary expendi
tures, on a Thank/giving Day, in the three J
States of Connecticut, Rhode-Island, and rrf e J by Mr. Lloyd, in taking down the Debates oj
Maflachufetts—Allowing eight persona to Congrefs-,—
a family, there are in those three States, A S\ STEM so easy, that any man, of ordina
-8;,694! families—confequently, «po» ■ II ESt.S
moderate calculation they mull, together, ex tent, without any further inftru&ion, than what
make Tbankfgiving Day debtor to about will be conveyed in a few pages,—the whole AR i
8 c,604 mugs flip "1 be ' ln S comprised in eighteen simple charters, with
-1 jj- - out any of those perplexing, arbitrary marks, with
40,000 plum puddings which the learners of other systems are obliged to
turkies or burden their memory, and embarrass their prac
-128,541 chicken pie», tice.
C 14,164 minced pies, Extra. Price, to Subscribers, Or.e Dollar ■■ to Non
.A. Subscribers, a Dollar and half.
5 14,104 apple pies, _ Subscriptions received by Meflrs. Rice, Book
-257,002 rice Or potatOC pies, fellers, Market-llrest, and by
514,164tart5, JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-street.
P028.328 pumkin pies» K? Half a Dollar to be paid at the time d
3 fubferibing.
New-York and Philadelphia
STAGES,
AND
Bordenton, Burlington, and Trenton ot
Lamberton
PACKETS.
THE proprietors of the New-York and Phi
ladelphia Land and Water Stages, beg leave
to mention, that for the better accommodation of
jhe passengers, they have removed their different
packet boats from their former stand, at the
Crooked Billet Wharf, to the wharf or dock im
mediately next below Arch-fticet ; from whence
a convenient packet boat starts for New-York,
as usual, on every Sunday, Tuesday, Weanefday
and Thursday, aijd returns on every Tuesday,
Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The pafiage to
be made either by the way of Bordenton or Bur
lington j each place taken alternately.
Fare for pafiengers from Philad. to N. York 15/
For goods per Cwt. do 6/
Van Emburgh and M'Kean,
David Williamfon,
Proprietors of the line of Neio York and Pbiladet~
phia Jlag(S, by the rout of Bordenton.
Jacob Myers,
.Amo3 Hutchin,
Nicholas Schenck,
Proprietors of the line of New York and Philadel
phia by the rout of Burlington.
Bordenton, OcV. 1.
For freight or pallage apply to the matters on
beard, or to
M'Kean and Van Emburgh;
Who have for sale at their store on said wharf,
immediately next below Arch-street,
Old Madeira, 1 Muscovado, 1
reneriffe, and >Wifc£s. Loaf, and
Mountain J Lump J
Jamaica Spirits, Molafies,
Antigua, 1 Coffee,
Mon:ferat & Chocolate,
Newbury J Bohea Tea,
Rcchelle Brandy Burlington Pork,
in pipes, cases and Hams,
demijohns, Flour,
Gin in pipes and cases, Bar Iron, &c. See. &c.
Orders for Grain, Staves, Bills of Scantling, or
other Lumber, punctually attended to.
For freight or pafl'age to Lamberton of
Trenton, apply a: said wharf to Thomas Afh
moore, William Douglafs, John Afhmoore or
Alexander Douglafs, (Masters on board) or as
above, to M'Kean & Van Emburgh.
Philadelphia, Odtober 6, 792.
Terres a Vendre
Dans un pais bien peuple'y—
S AVOIR, foixante cinq mille, trois cens, foix
ante et quatorze Acres, en une leale piece,
□ ans le canton le mieux peuple de la Caroline Me
ridionale, le Diihift de Ninety-Six. Ces terres
font fituees dans une contree agreable, et falubre,
ou les fievres font inconnuesj a environ vingt lieues
de Colombie, la Capitale, et contigues ala vilie
de Cambiidge, «u il y a College, et Cou fuper>-
eure. A environ douze lieues, i 1 y a bonne navi
gation jet il eft tres probable, que dans quelque
t£mson navigable le Grand Salude, riviere
qui arrofe les terres memes. El les font agreable
ment diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons charman*
propres a la culture du tabac, du coton, du mais,
et du petit grain } et donl une proportion consider
able fe petit ailement convertir en prairies fertiies,
il n'eft peut-etre gueres poflible de rencontrerune
pareilie piece de terre a vendre dans aucun autre
oesEtats Unis $ et pour les conditions de l'ach at
on les rendra tres commodes.
S'informer a rimprimerie de la Gazette Na
t)nale* Sept. 5*
LANDS for SALE,
\
TN a well fettled Country. SIXTY-FIVE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY- FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in one
body, in the nioft populous pait of the (late of
South-Carolina, in thediftri£l of Ninety-fix---It
is situated in a fine healthy climatVree from fever
<5c ague,about lixty miles from Columbia, the feat
of government. The land is contiguous to the
town of Cambridge, where are a feminarv for the
inftruflion of youth, and a superior law court. It
is at prelent within about thirty-five miles of good
navigation, with a probability of having the river,
called the Great Saluda, that flows alung one fide
of the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
fully diverfifled into swells and vales, and is per
fectly well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and small grain; a great
proportion of it may be made meadow gr lund.
There is nor, perhaps, such a body of land, so cii
cumftanced, for sale in any otherof the U; States.
The terms of payment will be made conveniont ao
the purchaser or purchafeis. Apply to the Printer.
Augult 29* lawtf
CHARLES BITTERS,
No- 120, South Market, near Fourth-Jlreet,
Has received from New-York, and ma
nufa&ured by Lot Merkel,
A large and general assortment of
Muffs and Tippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
Great Coats, Gaps, Mitts and Gloves lined
with Fur, which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lowest prices.
Nov. 24. 2a\vtt
For sale, at the printing ojice, a fe<M copies,
of the firfi volume of the National Gazette^
PRINTED BY
G 111 LD S AND SWAINa
AT THEIR OFFICE KOI 209,
JCEAR FIFTH-STREET,
PHIiADEtPHIAf
73
44
'3
79