Vol. I.
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
AS the citizens of the United States
will fuffer themselves no longer to
be amused by flowery and pompous de
clamations ou the prosperity of our Coun
try, and the superior virtue, difintereftt'd
nefs and pattiotifm of the executive offi
cers : recourse is now had to vilifying and
abusing every freeman who dares to de
clare his opinion on public measures. The
feieft few not willing to defend with fur
argument, the ariltocratic prihciples of
government, which they are endeavour
ing to establish, they are reduced to the
wrttched artifice of millating the argu
ments of the friends of the people, and
placing the strength of their remarks on
their own wilful misrepresentations. An
inflance of this kind may be observed in
Fcnno's paper of Saturday last. A wri
ter under the signature of a Freeman pro
poses to answer the letters addrefied to the
yeomanry ; but instead of coming forward
With that difinteretled candor confident
with the investigation of trutu, he takes
Ho notice of the general principles of the
letters, which tend to (hew the injustice,
the impropriety and danger of government
interfering in the occupations of citizens.
An open opposition to ftich principles
would attract the attention of the people
to the secret designs of the party and
therefore the old ground is had recourse
to, of •nictating facts and drawing conclu
lions irom them.
The Farmer fays p. 14, '' Holland af
fords a striking contrail in favour of a free
commerce, the territory of that republic
not railing a fufficiency of wheat for
their own consumption, have by the means
of a free commerce, not only ensured a full
supply for themselves, but frequently for
their neighbours. During the late com
motions in France the distress of the peo
ple in Paris in 1789, was relieved by corn
supplied by MefTrs. Hope of Amtlerdam
to the amount of one million of French
livres.*" The Farmer confincs hisobferva
tion to the single article of -wheat The
above writer takes no notice of this affer
tion, but enters into a lengthy detail of the
internal police and oppressive fyftt-m of
the Dutch finance which being princi
pally confined to the necessaries of life*
the people have been reduced <o a servile
dependence on a monied aristocracy.
The writer is equally unjull in his re
marks iefpc£ting France. The direful
effe&s of the splendid and extravagant
reign of Lewis XIV. is too well ellabhfh
ed to require elucidation. The Marquis
de la Fare speaking of the establishments
which took place during that period, ob
serves, that "the king's arbitrary govern
ment rendered thole eftablithments almost
useless. For a despotic power does not
agree with eminent talents, and with no
ble qualities ; a blind fnbiniffion, which is
inconfiflent with an elevated mind, be
coming then the thief qualification to
make a man' 6 fortune."
Considering that it is not only the rightj
bnt the duty of the citizens of a free inde
pendent commonwealth to interest them
selves in the welfare of their country,
the Farmer fometimcs finds leisure to com
municate his fentimen s 011 public mea
sures ; but he will find no time to enter in
to contentions and unprofitable scribbling.
For whether his errors be truly discover
ed, or peevishly and falfely kid to his
charge, the several readers mufl be the
judges. A FARMER.
* Meckar's adminiflration p. 33 1.
Mr. Freneau,
Believing that the following particulart oj
Mr. John Srangeways hlutton, viay in
terejl the public, they are communicated,
•with his consent, by your hnmble frrvant,
C. W. PEALE.
Philadelphia, Sept. 3d, 1792.
AFTER having, a few days since ta
ken Mr. Hutton's Portrait from the
life, which is to be preserved in my Muse
By Pi FRENEAU: Publijhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum i
SATURDAY, September 8, 1792
uffl, the following particulars refpe&ing
the old gentleman were colledted from his
children, and others of his acquaintance.
That he was born in the City of New-
York in 1684! was bound an apprentice to
a fea-faring man, who put him to school
in New-York, to learn navigation, at
which time he became intimate with a boy
who worked at the whitesmiths trade,
with whom he amused himfelf in acquiring
the use of the hammer, from whence he
obtained a facility in working at plate
work, in the silver-smiths bulitlefs. He
followed a fea-faring life for 30 years and
then commenced the silver smiths trade,
without having served any apprentice-ship
to it ; yet in Philadelphia he has been
esteemed one of the best work man at hol
low work, in that line of business: and
there are ilill pieces of his work in this city
much efteerv.ed. He made a tumbler in
lilver when he was 94 years old.
Through the course of a long and ha
zardous life, in various climes, he Was
always plain and temperate in his eatiag
md drinking; and avoided spirituous li
quors, except once, when he was a lieute
nant in a privateer* which failed from Bar
iadocs in Queen Ann's wars, being on a
:ruize on the Spanish main, he with 50 ot
So men, made a descent 011 a village, in pil
laging of which, himfelf, with mod of the
men became intoxicated. The Spaniards
took advantage of their iltuation, and got
Setween them and the sea, and killed every
man of his partyj except himfelf and one
Dther, whom thev made prisoners ; from
which state he attempted an escape, by
:Utting out a sloop, but was detedled,and
igain put into confinement.
He married his firit wife at New-York,
■vhofe maiden name was Catharine Ch:cfe■
nan, by whom he had 8 children, 25 grand
children, 23 great grand children, and 3
jreat great grand children.
At the age of 51 he married his second
wife, in Philadelphia, her maiden namt
Ann Vanlear, 19 years old at the time oi
:he marriage ;by whom he had 17 chil
dren, 41 grand children, and 15 great
grand children.
The state of his ifTue at this time, ac
cording to the best accounts I could Col
eft are : alive, deac,
Children by his Ift marriage at-e> 8 7
Grand children . . 256
Great grand children . 23
Great great grand children 3
Children by his 2d marriage are, 17 12
Grand children . 41 16
Great grand children . 13* 4
Total born . . . 132 45
Now living 87 ; of whom the greater
nunlber reside in Philadelphia—two fami
lies of them in Richmond, Virginia.
His second wife died in Philadelphia,
14th Nov. 1788, aged 72 years and an
half. He never had an head-ach ; and haa
often said that he thought himfelf in his
prime of life, when at the age of 60 years.
He was always fond of fifhing and fowl
ing ; and till his 81 ft year, he u(ed to car
ry in his hunting excursions, a heavy En
glifh musket. He was ever a quiet, tem
perate and hard-working man ; and is now,
a good humoured, hearty old man. He
can fee, hear, and Walk about, and has a
good appetite, with no complaints whate
ver, except from the mere weaknefles of
old age.
In the early part of his life he was on
two scouts again the Indians, —he used to
tell that in one of those excursions, they
went out in the night, how they lifted up
their feet high in stepping to prevent a
noise amongst the leaves, that they took an
Indian woman prisoner, who led them to
where the Indians lay, that they fiied on
and killed the moil of the Indians before
they could get their arms, and a few ofily
cfcaped. That the Indians came in and
made a peace, before this scouting party
returned.
He knew ths noted pirate Teach, call
ed Black-beard ; that an ast of oblivion
had pafled, which permitted all pirates to
return to their allegiance ; that Black
beard then came to Barbadoes, where he
saw him ; this wag a short time before that
pirate made Im last cruise, and was killed
in Carolina.
His grand father, by his mother's fide,
Mr. Arthur Strangeways, died at Boston,
fitting in his chair, when at the age of lot
years. His father, Mr. John Hutton, was
born at Bournefdures, in Scotland, where,
t is said, there are many of the family now
iving.
———— |
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
PRAGUE, June 20.
GENERAL Prince de Hohenlohe,
T Governor of our city, set off the
r2th indant for the army at Brifgaw. On
:he 15th, the regiment of Hertzberg,
ivhich forms the head of the Prufiian co
umn, under the command of the hereditary
Prince de Hohenlohe, arrived here, and on
the 17th, continued its route for Coblentz
As it was the firft time that Prufiian troops
wrere ever seen in Bohemia as friends, an
nimenfe crowd aflembled to fee them,
□ur own troops from Bohemia and Mo
■avia will follow them J they will confiii of
:cn battalions, or 12,297 men, and will
proceed to Luxembourg or Brifgaw.
Brussels, jui y 6.
It appears, from the accounts which
have been published by this Government,
hat early in the morning of the 30th. ult,
the French troops, stationed at Courtray,
retreated from thence to Mtnin, where
Monsieur Luckner had fixt hr's head quar
ters, and that the whole French Army, af
ter this junction, fell back to Lisle, where
they arrived the fame night, having entire
ly evacuated the Austrian low countries.
The Duke of Brunfwick arrived at Co
blentz the 3d instant and the firft Column
of the Prufiian Army, reached that place
the fame day.
LTLLE, July 5
The army on its march from hence on
Sunday morning, reached Orchies at night,
and encamping there, Ilaid till Mon
day morning, when it proceeded to St.
Amand.
The violent Jacobins do their utmost to
impress the men's minds with ideas of trea
son and ariltocracy, in this retrogade
movement, to which they fay M. Luck
ner gave his afient with the utmost reluiV
ance, but was forced by the minister, who
011 Friday night sent him a letter, an
nouncing the march of the Prufiian troops
with 25,000 emigrants, towards Mont
medi, with the plan of the defence con
certed, which occasioned this change of
position.
The camp of Maulde was also evacuated
by M. Delanone's corps, who are gone to
Maubeuge ; M. La Fayette's army moves
higher up towards Montmedi, and M.
Luckner is to keep the enemy in play
over the extensive frontiers on the not th
em fide, his main army taking poll at Va
lenciennes as before.
Immediately after the evacuation as
Courtray and Menin, the Auflrians pene
trated into all their forrtier stations, though
it was night, and overtook a party of a
bout fifty of the Belgic legion, who had
not timely notice of the French retreat,
being upon guard at an out post. They
fell into the hands of the enemy, and next
day ten were hung on the public market
place. The reft have probably by this
time experienced a similar fate.
Since this evacuation, the frontiers hafe
been cruelly exposed to the ravages of the
enemy's marauding parties, who, every day
commit many acts of violence upon the
French peafanti.
Numb. go.
Jxiy, 7. It is not yet known whcthei*
any part of Marshal Luikner's army will
resume the position near this city, but no
tice has been given to the peasants not to
till the ground formerly occupied.
All the inhabitants of the town 3 and vil
lages on the frontiers have abandoned their
dwellings, to take refuga in the cities.
In several places however, the peasants
have formed the resolution of arming
themselves, and forming patroles to pro
tea their harVest against the tnaraujing
parties of the enemy.
Deserters from the Auftrians are con
flantly coming in ; and out patroles, sent
out to fcotlr the country at night, com
monly return with prisoners.
Warsaw, June
We havejuft: received from ihe camp of
prince Joseph Poniatowfki, intelligence
both agreeable and important.
Prince has gained a signal victory over a
corps of the Ruffian troops of the divifiotl
as general Kochowflti.
This aiftion happened the 17th of this
month between Polonne and Zazlatv, in
Volhynia.
The cortibat, which was obstinate and
nloody, lafled from seven in the morning
:ill five in the afternoon.
The opp nents were very near coming
o bayonets, when the enemy retired, leav
ing the field of battle to the Folifh army.
Ihe Poles loft eight hundred men, and
300 horses ; the loss of the Ruffians ex
ceeds four thousand ; besides the prisoners*
and a standard taken from them.
The advantage gained by the Polish
army would have been (till more complete,
but for a check which a part of the repub
lic's troops received on the fourteenth in
passing a bridge thrown over a dyke, which
broke down and interrupted their march.
The Ruffians attacking them at this in
stant, they defended themselves with pro
digious courage, and preferred fording a
deep pool, where seven of their giins were
buried in the mud, to yielding them to the
enemy, who had surrounded hem.
The greatest loss experienced by the
Ruffian army on the 1 7 th, is attri. uted to
this circumllance. The battallions placed
in the centre of the Poliffi army, were
more or less forced in the heat of the adti
on ; on which the Ruffians advancing ex
posed their flanks. This position did not
escape the watchful eye of the officer who
commanded the wings of the Polish army 3
so soon as they observed it, they dire&ed
their artillery, and the great strength of
their troops, against these exposed flanks.
In this interval the reserve changed their
front, and contributed by this evolution*
to repulsing the enemy ; and, immediately
on this, a general attack at thc fame in
stant decided the victory.
The Ruffian forces C'onfifted of two
Pulks of CofFics, cf two thousand men
each ; a regiment of CathaHnoflaw Chas
seurs, of two thousand men ; three battalj
ions of dismounted Chaffeurg, two thous
and men J the Grenadiers of Catharinoflaw 1
to the number of four thousand ; two
regiments of hufTas of two thousand men
each ; and twenty-four pieces of cannon.
Prince Joseph Poniatowfki, who was
himfelf in every place} and attended to
every thing, has forgotten himfelf alone
in the account he gives of this action.
OSTEND July 1792.
"Yetterday we received an account of
a battle between the French and Autlrians,
in which the latter were victorious It is
faid,l2oo French were k.l!ed* and too
taken.—ln confequeiicr of this defeat, th<;
town of Orchies is in poffiffiion of the Au
llrians, with a great quantity of stores of
all kinds. On Monday the Auttrian army
was reinforced by 28,000 men, lately ar
rived from Germany.
" While I was writing the above, M.
Vandamme arrived here from Lille—he!
was a fpe&ator of the battle : it was bit-',tween Lisle and Ore-hies. The body of
Frcncli were 5000 who were going from
Lisle to Alfa, e; th y were attacked by
16 or 1700 Aullrians, who rather had the
worll of it st fir't ; but in the end rjlade
terrible hdvock, and drove the enemy into
Lide, where they were VeV'y biJly re
ceived by the people."
• . an
F R A N C E.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
Thurday, July
A Deputv produced a foreign letter,
*hich contained intelligence that ihirty
tlioufand Pruflians were advancing to Cob
lentz by rapid marches, and that the-State-
Major and chest of the army were already
arrived ; and that on the 411 of July the
emigrants were to form a camp at Treves.
The Assembly ordered, that the Minifteja
of War and Foreign Affairs Ihould give an
account of what belonged to these several
departments.
The Miniller of Jultice demanded to be
heird and preiented the following
» LETTER from the KING.
" Gentlemen,
" We approach that famous epoch when
the French throughout all the empire are
again to celebrate the anniversary of liber
ty. The law prohibits every particular
federation ; it only p rmitsthe renewal'ol
the civic oatb in every dHlritt. But we
have a measure to adopt which, without
being attended with any violation <5f law,
appears to me extremely lfecefTary in the
present critical frtuatiou of affairs. . It i<
pai ticularly at the moment when a great
nation carries on a foreign war, and wj~.ee
the faiftions excite - internal dill'entions ;
that peaceable citizens Hand irt need of be
ing confirmed.
" I am ot opinion, that we cught tc
give thefignal of tjie re-union of the coii
itituted powers —a great number of French
irtrn assemble and repair to the frontier-;—
they desire to swear at the altar of the
country, to live free or to die —I inform
you of my desire, to go in tl>e midit oi
them to receive their oaths, ami to prove
to the fadlious, that we have only one fpi
fit—that of the Constitution
(Signed) " LOUIS.
(Counter-Signed) " Dk JOLY."'
Thursday fid y 5. — Evening fitting.
The Miniller tor; Foreign Affairs com
municated to the Assembly several prip.rs
from Coblentz, that Ind been intercepted,
and sent to the King. Among these pieces
were two bills o exchjnge, for sums to the
amount of 6 800,000 of livres, and several
cert ficates, all issued by the emigrant
Princes, ii: the King's name.
Not jication to the Powers of Europe, from
the King of the French
" The King of the French being in
formed that persons (till continue to make
life of his name to propose negociations
with foreign courts, to make loans, and
even to make levies of foreign troops, and
being again desirous of c mfecrating, in ;i
solemn manner, his attachment to the
Conlhtution, which he freely accepted,
and which he has sworn to defend, disa
vows all declarations, protections, nego
ciations with foreign courts, loans, levies
of foreign troops, purchases of arms, war
like (lores anel others, and generally all
adts, public and private, made in his name
by Louis Stanifl.ius X ivier, Charles-Phi
hp, Louis Jofcph, and. Louis- inthony-
Henry, French Princes, and by other
Emigrants', lebela to the laws, and to their
country.
" He declares that his own interefb,
andthofeof the -people, of whom he is the
hereditary representative, are forever inse
parable ; that the government, the execu
tion of which is confided to trim, (hall be
maintained by him in ail its purity.
" Firm in this tefolmion, the King ol
the French charges his Miniller of Foreign
Affairs to notify to all the powers, that
entirely devo'ed to thecanfe of the French
people, he will make use of all the force
put into his hands, againil the enemies oi
France, whatever p etexts may be employ
ed to countenance the armed tiffemblies ql
Emigrants, or to fuppurt them in their
hollile proceedings.
(Signed) "LOUIS.
And under {igned «• CHAMBONNAS.'
The Miniller also communicated an ex
tra£l of his foreign eorrefpondenee, the
funi of which was, that 38,000 Pruflians
? r e on t 1 eir march to the Rhine, and thn:
France would soon have to contend againfl
I^o, coq men.
Friday, July 6.
Ivi. Lamark proposed to augment the
army in proportion to the force of the
enemy, and presented a plan to thin effe£t.
I —Referred to the military committee.
LETTER, from the KING.
" Gcnt!ein(n,
" It is with tegret that I perceive we
have one more enemy. Prnflia, whom every
inteiefl attached to France, breaks theties
ofp»ace and si ienilfhip, and conspires with
our declared enemies. The convention of
Pilnitz, the alliance which has been its
coufequence, the reception given at the
Coutt of Berlin to the French rebels, the
offenfive conduct of that Court with re
fpedt to French travellers, the refufal to
receive otir En.oy, the departure without
taking leave of the Ambaflador of Berlin,
in fine, the march of 52,000 Pruflians,
who are to join the King of Hungary, all
prove the concert between the Court of
V ienna and that ofßerlin
" These, gentlemen, are imminent hof
ti!itics. Conformably to the terms of the
Conditution, t depend upon the union and
the courage of the French, for the fnpport
of our independen e and our liberty.
(Signed) " LOt'IS.
(Undtriigned) « CHAMI3ONAS "
M Condorcet reported from the Com
mittee of Twelve, 011 the (late of the king
dom. After a speech of confi.lerablc
length, in which he inveighed bitterly a
gaiuft the conduct of the Executive Pow
er, particularly since the appointment of
the present Minider?, he proposed that a
representation should be made to the King
of the Condition to which the manage
merit of his court had reduced the nation,
with four plans of a decree for abridging
and controlling the royal power.
His speech was ordered to be printed.
Saturday July 7.
It was decreed on the proportion of M.
Hugau, that there should be formed a le
gion of free companies for each of our four
armi s. They then voted to the Minis
ter of M-trine, a firm of 13,131,345 livrcs,
for the extraordinary expenles of his de.
partment during the year 1792.
The Abbe Larnourette, Bii'hop of Ly
ons was then heard 011 the order of the day :
He forcibly dated the necefllty of a frank
and cordial re-union of all the members of
the legifl itive body, and shewed that on
such a re 11 ion alone depended the main
tainan eof the of the people, and
the prefervat'on of liberty. There exid,
said he, two dillinft parties in the AfTerrr
bly : these parties both accuse one ano
ther i tire one of wilhiirg for a republican
form of government, the other of medita
ting the re-eitablifhmrnt of the two cham
bers Let us denounce our paflions, let us
be united, we (hall thus become strong j
our union will be more formidable to our
enemies, than all the cannons which guard
our frontiers Let us give a great exam
ple to all Europe, and infprre our enemies
with terror ; there is nothing incompatible
except v ce and virt' e. I demand the Pre
sident to fix a day to put the fdllowing
propofllion 'o the vote: ' Let all why
hold in deteflation a republic, and the two
chambers, rife."
Scarcely had these lad words been pro
nounced, when the two fides rose, threw
up their hats, ft retched forth their arms.
Loud applauses were heard from every
quart r. Each fide approached its oppo
nents, the two mingled together, arid ex
changed embraces; signs of the utmolf
harmony and concord prevailed ; the tw->
parties swore an immoral union, and took
their feats promiscuously.
Scarcely had they finifhed when the ap
proach of the King was announced. He
was received with loud and reiterated ap
plauses. He was accompanied by his
ministers, and placed himfelf without ce
remony beside the president.
The KING's SPEECH.
" Gentlemen,
" No fpedtacle can be more affe&ing to
me than the general re union of opinion
and lentiment which has now taken place.
This re-union I have long desired, at lad
my wish is fulfilled, the nation and the
King form only one. The Conditution
will now becometliat pointof union,around
which all Frenchmen will aflenble in order
to prottd it, and the King will always
let them the example."
The President's reply.
" Sire,
" 1 his memorable epoch mud inspire
with thegrcated pleasure all the friends
of liberty. It is a dreadful epoch for its
enemie?, henccforth the nation is Invincible.
In vain tyrants conspire againd liberty."
Both these fpeechcs were received with
the loudefl: applause.
The King made some efforts to anftvcr,
but was so much affe&ed that hccould only
lay, in a tone which indicated the utmoll
emotion, " The pleasure which I feel is
delicious." He then retired, accompanied
by a deputation, and the litting rofe,amidll
the acclamations of Vive la Nation ! Vive
la Liberty ! Vive la Roi !
Tueftlay, July 10..
The ministers again gave an account of
the state of the kingdom, the moil material
parts of which were, that the frontiers
would soon be attacked by about 200,000
men, to which France had about 248 000
to oppose ; that the King of Sardinia
might be coufidered amongst the number
of her enemies ; and that they had not a
Tingle ally except America, from whom
nothing could be expedited but supplies for
her colonies. They concluded their ac
count with informing the A (Terribly, that
having entered into office in the hope oi
doing service to their country, it was their
lutv to resign when that hope was 110
more ; and that they had all delivered their
resignations to the King, before coming
down to the Aflembly
This notice was loudly applauded by
the people in the galleries.
The debate on the flatc of the nation
was then resumed, and several members
Tpoke upon it. It was resolved to decide
upon it to-morrow ; and the militaiT, the
diplomatic, and the extraordinary commit
:ee of Twelve, were ordered to prep ire
the necefiary details, in ca'e it fhoilld be
decreed, that the country is in danger.
A LETTER from the KING.
" Mr Prejidcnt,
" All the ministers have given in their
resignations, as they this morning an
nounced to the AfT.'mbly, lam employ
ed in replacing them ; in the mean time
they continue their functions.
(Signed) « LOUIS."
Wednesday July ir,
M. Harault reported from the joint com
liittees on the political ffate of the nation,
l'lieir opinion was, to declare that their
Country is in danger.
M. Lacipede proposed the following form
asa declaration, which was carried almott
:
" Numerous bodies of troops are advan
cing towards our frontiers. All tliofe who
abhor liberty are arming against our contli
tution.
Citizens, our Country is 1:1 danger !
Let tliofe who are to have the honor of
marching the firft to defend all that they
lold molt dear, ahvavs remember that they
ire Frenchmen, and freemen : let theirfel
ow-citizcns maintain at home thefafety of
lerfons and property ; let the magistrates
jf the people watch attentively; ° let all
.vith the calm courage which is the attri
)ute of true force, waitfor the signal of the
aw before they ast, and our country will
>e saved.
On the motion of M. Vergniaud, the af
enibly voted
\n ADDRFSS to the FRF.NCH, on the
DANGER of their COUNTRY.
" C.tizens,
" Your constitution restores the princi
jles of eternal jnflice. A league of kings
s formed to destroy it. Their battalions
ire advancing : they are numerous, under
•igorous discipline, and long praftifed in the
irt of war. Do you not feel a noble ardor
ntlame your courage? Will you futfer
lordes of foreigners, like a deflruftive tor
ent, to overflow your fields ? Will you
uffer them to ravage your harvefls ; to
■vafte your country by burning and cruel
ies : in a word, to load yourselves with
hains dyed in the blood of all you hold
noft dear ?
'• Our armies are not yet complete: an
ndifcrete fequrity too soon restrained the
irdor of patriotifin. The levies of recruits
jrdained have nor been so completely fuc
tefsful as your reprefematives had hoped.
Internal trouble-, added to the difficulty of
>ur lituation, cause our enemies to give
tiiemfelves to vain hopes, which to youare
111 insult.
_*' Hasten, citizens: save liberty, and
vindicate yourglory.
'■ The National Aflembly declares, that
our country is in danger.
" Beware, however, of thinking, that
this declaration 1; the ellcft of a terror un
worthy of the Aflembly, or of yon. Von
have taken the oaih, To live j'rtr rr die. Tilt
Allemb'y knows that you will keep it, and
fwtars to let you the example: but the
queltion is not to brave de*at!l, we mnii
c iquer, ajid you can con ;uer; ii vim ab
jure your hatred.', if you forr.e: yoi:r poli
t cal (I Mentions, if you unite in the common
eaufe, if you watch with indefat'gable acti
vity your interrial enemies, if you prevent
all ihe dil'orders nird all the act. of violence
to iudiv.duals whieii they excite; if fctu-
i ing within the kingdom the empire of the
laws, and answering by well ordered
movements the call of your country, you
tly to the frontiers, and to our camps, with
the generous enthusiasm of liberty, and the
profound fentiraent of the duties of foidier
citizens.
" Frenchmen, four years engaged in a
druggie against despotism, we advertise
yob of your dangers, in order to invite you
to the efforts neceflary to surmount them.
We (hew yon the precipice, what glory a
waits you when you (hall have over parted
it ! The eyes of nations are fixed upon you :
alfonifh them by the majestic dilplay of
\ our force, and of a grand chanifler. .Uni
on, refpeft for the laws, for the chiefs, for
the condituted authorities j courage unsha
ken, and soon will victory crown with her
palin the altar ol liberty : soon will the na
tion:, who are now arming against your
corftitutipn covet to unite themselves with
you by the ties of a sweet fraternity: soon
consolidating, by a glorious peace, the basis
Of your government, you will reap all the
liuits of tile revolution ; and in preparing
yout own happiness, you will have prepa
red the happiness of poflerity."
On the motion of M. Vaublanc, the As
sembly voted—
An ADDRESS to the ARMY.
" Brave Warriors,
1 he National Aflembly has just pro
claimed the danger of our county : this is
to proclaim the force of the empire ; this is
to announce, that French youth will soon
flock round the standard of Liberty. You
will teach them to conquer ; you will point
them the road to glory.
" 1,11 the signal of danger to your coun
try, you will feel your ardor redoubled.
Warriors, let discipline guard your mo
tions ; that alone is the guarantee of of vic
toiy. Have that calm and cool courage
with which the sense of your force ought
to inspire you.
A true army is an immenfc body put
in motion by a Jingle head. It can do no
thing without a pafiive subordination of.
rank to rank, from the foidier up to the ge
nera!. Warriors, imitate the devotion of
Daliias. and the courage of the brave Fie.
the honors which your country re
feries for those who light for herj they
will be worthy of her and of you.
Forget not that it is your conftittition
that attacked. Fhe obje£t is to make
you (left-end from the glorious rank of free
men ! Well ! brave warriors, the conftitu
t.iou must triumph, or the French nation
mult be covered with indelible disgrace.
tiom all parts your fellow-citizens aie
preparing to second you. Doubt not of it:
tneieis not a Frenchman'who hesitates ;
there is not one who, in tf.efe days of peril
and of glory, ri/ks dillionoring his life by a
bate and lhameful inaftio.-i. How unhappy
will be the man who cannot on some fu
tute day fay to his children and fellow-ci
ii-c.13 " I too fought when our liberty
was attacked. I (bared the glory of the
day on which the French arms triumphed
over our enemies. I defended the ram
pal ts of the city, which they attacked in
vain ; and on fucli a day I bled for my
country, for liberty and equality."
Thur[day, July 12 — Evening Sitting.
Decreed, that 93,000 men (hall be raised
beiides ; 50,c00 of whom (hall join the ar
my, and 43,000 fliall form corps de re
lerve.
f hen followed a eall in the honfe. Pre
j<-nt 663 members. Sick 16—8 engaged in
buhnefs 6 dead and not replaced—27 did
not answer. Broke up at 11 o'clock.
hiday, July 13.
In the fitting of this day, contradiffory to
the contents of Gen. Lainorliere's letter,
information was received from the Direc
tory of the Lower Rhine, that the Austrian
forces at Kehl, are increased to the num
ber of 40,000 men, and that, according to
all appearances, we (hall be attacked by
200,000 men. Fhey add, that a number of
ofticersleem to have made an agreement to
ilefert, with a view to encreafe the embar
raflinents of the Generals.
PARIS, July t4.
7 lie day is at length arrived, and every
(onl 111 Paris is already in motion ; the
drums have been beating(ince four o'clock.
1 he reintegration of Petion will, I doubt
not, prevent any riot : yesterday eveniii£.
as loon as the decree was known, above
50,000 persons surrounded the mayoralty
houle. Mr. Petion appeared between four
municipal officers, who had been ordered to
attend him lince his fufpenlion: he addref
;ed the people from a window-he wept—
and, overpowered with emotion, fainted in
the arms of the municipal officers, who had
been ordered to attend him. Hence he
was carried to the Hotel de la Ville in tri
umph, though the decree was not then
lanctioned the streets ringing with the cry
• Vive le Petion!"
• An affair of a more serious nature had
ike to have taken place : Mr. la Calombe,
toimerly aid-de-camp to Mr. la Fayette,
was 111 a cotiee-houfe near die National Af
iembl> ; tne people wilhed to hang him,
and he was saved from the popular fury by
being brought to the central committee,
where he was obliged to remain all the
evening.On Friday the decree paffcd the National
Aliembly, for tile relforatiort bf M. Petion.
in his office as Mayor. It was proposed bv
Mr. Murain, and carried after a very tu
multuous debate. Mr. Manuel was decla
red to be provisionally suspended. The de
cree, refperting Mr. Petion, was immedi
ately carried to the king for his approba
tion, to the municipality and the depart
ment.
A confidefable body of the Provincial Fe
deriffs had arrived in the capital; but not
so great a number as had been previotifly
expelled. As the chief grievance was re
moved, in the refloration of the Mayor,
there was little or no appreheniion, but
that the day would pass over without any
violent tumult.
The king flill remained without mini
ffers, none of those, to whom offers were
made, would accept a situation so full of
responsibility and hazard.
The emigrant forces are aflembling at
Coblentz, the 28th, Mirabeau's Legion had
not arrived, but folue Pruflian war commis
saries were employed daily in making tip
the accounts of tl.eir force, and preparing
provisions. See.
The following is theJlate of the rforce.
CAVALRY.
Gardes de Corps de Roy - l£oo
Garde:; de Corps des Princes, - gco
Gendarmes - - 600
Muifcetaires t fcoo
Red Companies - - 400
Corps de Maime, all officers - 600
Deserted officers from different regts. 800
Royal A 1 emand defeited - £00
Buchiny and Saxe Hufiars - loco
Total Cavalry 6joo
I N, F A N T R Y.
French officers and gentlemen, 110-
bleffe, &c. &c. - - 8000
Hellians - - - 12,000
Total 20,000
RECAPITULATION.
Cavalry t ± 6,500 c
Infantry - 4 20,000
Expefied from Ruflia, under the
command of M. de Naflau, the
end of July - 20 000
Total force 44,500
I. O N D O N, July 13.
Pre vioufly to the retreat of the French in
to their own territory, a detachment of the
Belgic Legicm entered Warneton in the
Aulfrian Netherlands, where a sum of mo
ney, belonging to the King of Hungary,
was deposited in the public magazine.—
They were so fuccef>ful as to carry off with
them 17,000 florins, and 36 calks of Ge
neva.
PHILADELPHIA.
September 8, 1792.
Abstract and Recapitula 110N of Fo
reign Intelligence.
The great quantity of European news
brought by the brig Adriana, makes it dif
ficult to trace afuccinif account of the im
portant events from the middle of June to
the middle of July.
French Affairs
Are in a worse situation than our last ac
counts from France had left them
It appear o , that since that period Luck*
ner's army ha, penetrated iiito the Aulfrian
territory as far as Courtrayand Mons, and
taken poflefiiun of those two places.
They however soon fell back and re-en
tered their owli territory Without gaining
any decided advantage, but also without
material loss.
Nothing of confequetice appears to have
been effected by La Fayette's army since the
nth of June, the lateff date of our former
accounts.
But Paris has been the scene 6f many
tumultuous and distressing scene*.
On the 20th of June a mob forcibly en
tered tie palace and made their way into
the very apartment of the king, to oblige
liiin to lign the decrees of the Aliembly re
lative to the clergy, and that for forming a
camp of 20,000 men near Paris, to which
he had affixed his veto.
This violent step is by foine looked upon,
not merely as the deed of a ltiob arting
' from blind and criminal impulse, but as a
premeditated fchenie of the molt violent
partizans of republicanism.
The attempt was no doubt a daring out
rage againlf the conflitution, and molt pro
bably the whole work of a mob.
The sensations i: occasioned and effe£fs it
produced throughout the kingdom, prove
that a great, a very great majority of the
ration held the actors in this scene in utter
abhorrence.
La Fayette flew from the army to the
city, and his presence contributed not a lit
tle to rtfiore order. Petition is warmly ac
ci(ed of having some hand in the violent at
tempt againlf the independence of the king
in uling his confiitutional veto.
His known political sentiments, warmly
lepublicaxi, mult alone have rife to a
supposition of this riMure. Nothing like the
hi oft remote probable proof appears in flip
port of the accufatioii.
If the Jacobins are not the iitimediate
canfe of this criminal tranfaflion, their vi
olent principles and active exertions in flip
port of them, mufl <10 doubr have indirectly
led to it. It will be in a great nieafure at
tributed to their immediate agency, and
perhaps call such an odium on the party a;
in a great nieafure to annihilate their
power.
La Fayette is by some blame,d for leaving
the ariliy without permission from the mi
nifler of war. He pleads necessity in julll
ficatio'n. If he had not taken the step; he
could not, it appears, have prevented the
army from marching in a body towards
Paris.
Tranquility was restored in the capital
in a few days, and on the 30th La Fayette
returned to his poll:.
The king proposed to the National As
sembly the formation of a camp of 30,000!
men, to be flatioued between the frontiers
and the capital, as a nieafure of precaution,
instead of the camp near Paris, proposed
by the decree to which he had aiKxid his
Veto. This nieafure was adopted : A lure
ligii of the temper of the Assembly at the
present critical period.
We are informed by a gentlemanjufl arrived
froth Cape Francois, that (ome diilili bantes h.id
brokcout between the whites and the mulattoes,
about the heginningof August, which lailed a
few days, and then lublid^d.
A brig arrived from France about the fame
time. 'I he 8000 troops intended to be embarked
for the defence of the Well-India islands, were
detained in 1 ranee wh-jn the brig failed, owing
to the great ciifcoments that were prevalent—'
lndee l it was a matter of much doubt with men
of consequence, whether they would any longer
relv on the promises of the French government;
and it was icported, that leveral gentlemen had
gone toßarbadoes, upon some plan of
a mode of application to the Butifh governments
for proteclien ; in which cale, they had it in
contemplation to throw the French islands into
the hands of the Enghfli. This we give as men
tioned to us by a perfort who heard itfpoken of
at the Cape,
Mr. James Carey, late Printer and joint
Proprietor of a Dublin newspaper, entitled,
The Rights of Irijkmen, propefes to publilh a
daily newspaper in the city of Richmond,
No. 1 of which is to appear 011 the lirll of
October next.
A Boflou paper fays, we are allured from
very refpeclable authority, that an enquiry
will commence at the next fitting of the
General Court, refpeiling the legality of
Branch Banks being elfablifhed in the dif
ferent slates, by the National Bank.
Benjamin Bourne and Francis Malbone,
Esquires, are elected Keprefentatives in
tiongrefsfor the slate of Rhode-Ifland-.
For ihe National Gazette.
MERCATOR to CIVIS :
Containing further Remarks on a late au
thentic document, publiihed by the Trea
fttry Depaittfiertt, under the iignaturi of
Joseph Nourfe Regifler.
WHEN you, Civis, avow and declare
the ohjefl of the Trealury Depart -
me it in making the publication alluded to,
I pcefume you speak froth that int'instc,
accurate, and precise knowledge of the inten
tion which the Secretary himfelf can alone
poflefs.—Would it Hot have been candid
then, to have come forward in propria per
fonce, and, under the official fanclion of*othee,
declared what the real intention was ? To at
tempt a public deception through ind:re£l
means, may avoid personal impeachment,
but can seldom escape detection. Von fav,
that Mercator " has endeavored toJhcw that the
contrary of what was intended, is dat."-NoW
Mercator, has simply fnppofed that it wa
intended to 'ihprefs the public mind with a
belief that under the present adininiflration
of its fifcal concerns, the public debt has
been aElually reduced : This supposition
then, as you declare, was contrary to the real
intention, and, as Mercator, is not dilpofed to
doubt your knowledge-os what the real intention Wa ,
he relts fatisfied in the admiflion that the
public debt has not been dimiiiilhed. But
Mercator has unluckily fuggefled that the
public debt, inflead ot b<>tng diminished one
farthing, has, under ur adminillration,
been augmented to a conliderable amount.
—This you regai d as a deliberate ail of
hollility, a malicious endeavor to Jefl'en the
public confidence in yen, to drive you front
office, and, in the true spirit of a certain
junto, to grasp all tile powers of the govern
ment into their own hands.—-Indeed, my
good Civis, you discover too much anxiety,
ear, and paflion—your zeal betrays you.
and in the apprehenlions for the reputation
and continuance in ojjicc of the Secretary
of the Treasury, manifeftly (hews the
inseparable conneflion between you and
him. Do not, however, elevate Mercator
beyond his views ; give him an importance
that he does not seek, or rank him with
men that he does not know.—Humble and
moderate in his wilhes, with no avidity or
deiire for the loaves and fifhes of office, un
connected with anj-junto, if any there be,
and disdaining the t.feof any power but that
of truth and reason, Mercator came for
ward to examine a plain facl, and to affcft
the public inveftijation of It, by a reference
to other authentic documents of the ireafnry de
partment itfelf. Wherefore then do you
impeach the purity of his motives, anil ac
ctife him of want of accuracy and candor?
You have surely forgotten the scriptural ad
monition, " to cast the beam from your own
eye before vou pluck the mote from a bro
ther's." ■Remember that an accuser fliould
never be guilty of the thing he con
demns. You accnfe Mercator df cilarging
you with the arrears ofintereft from the
day the public revenue commenced, that is,
on the irt of Aug lift, i"8?, until your de
partment was organized on the 13th of
September following, and con-plain that
this arrearage of interest accrued prior to
the existence of your department; and yet
you have 110 scruple to avail yourfelf of the
life at the Whole public revenue from the
said firft day of August. I leave it to a more
plaKhble fophiltry than you exhibit, to re
concile this absurdity. Your next com
plaint is, that Mercator's standard of calcu
lation is erroneous; because lie charges you
with the arrears of interest made principal,
and the of the assumed debt—Mow,
as to the arrears of interest made principal,
was there not allowed an interest upon it
equal 10 tllat of the original principal ? Did
not this operate as compound interest, cfr
interest upon interelt ? And have you not
the unbaHanced claim of rrferit with the pub
lic for trie proportion, which such an opera
tion demands. ? In respect to the assumed
debt, I a/k to know at what period; prior
to the aiTumption, the interest upon that
ceased ? 11 then, Mercator has kindly taken
a lower standard of calculation than he
might have done, Or if instead of eftimdting
upon th e prrjmt rate ofintereft on the pub
lic debt, equal to about four and a half per
cent, lie had charged a full rate of fix per
centum upon the principal of the foreign
and domeftit debt, the arrears of interest
and the assumed debt, thereby adding tb
the flatement he made two or three mil
lions more, —what becomes of this charge
of inacccuracy and wartt of candor ? Mer
cator's design was, to expose a plain and ob
vious principle to the public view, without
regard to nice calculation or fractional cer
tainty : that he has been under, and not o
ver the mark, is pretty certain, and may be
easily deinonftrated by figures. Vou can
belt afcertaiu the precise amount of the addi
tion that has been made to the public debt.
Whether the language and conceptions
of Mercator jullify the idea, that " to pro
vide for a debt, and to reduce it, amount to
the fame thing," will be left to the public
to determine : to whom alio it is referred,
how far, in the principles and practice of
Civis and of the Secretary,tO reduce the pub
lic debt and to add to it, are synonymous ?
The review of certain leading facts re
specting the eftablilhihent oftlie funding
system, is tod tedious and unimportant for
the pursuit of Mercator : he lias little time,
and less inclination to remark upon them ;
like another elaborate report oftlie Secreta
ry of the Treasury, time and truth will dis
cover their fallacy. Tile boalt that is made
of benefit to the public, firft, in the faring
by purchases ill the public debt at the mar
ket price ; feconttly, by the advanced price
given by foreigners in their purchases of the
public debt ; thirdly, by the reduced rate
oftlie new loans for paying off the foreign
debt ; and laltly, by the initilution of the
national bank, may be regarded as so many
ctrcumftances of little and temporary ex
pedient, producing partial or mliguiiicant
advantage or convenience to the govern
ment, and which like ail temporiling ex
pedients predicated 011 the facrifice of
justice and of principle, leave behind
them the bitter sting of future, extensive,
and permanent evil. Ihe benefits, if any,
are nearly pafied away ; the evil but beg.us
to be felt aitd underltodd. What may be
the ilfue of the public mind upon them, is
left for Civis .to verify.
September j. MERCATOR.
For the National Gazette.
Ml". FItNtAV,
Concerning the cut/cr and the mo
tives of the late calumnious attack on
the Secretary of State, I have heard from
various pefons but one and the fame conjec
ture. but surely there was never a ease
where the judgment of a fall'e accuser was
more iinpored on and misguided by the bale
pallions which torment him. for with re
fpcit to every article of his libel, they are
either fhamefully and glaringly falfe, or
what is more, are highly !(ouoi able to that
illuftriotis Patriot, Statesman and Philoso
pher. One of the charges is, that he set up
the prefsbf the National Gazette,by a cor
rupt bargain ft>r destroying the Constitu
tion of the United and that he co
operates by his own writing for tha: pur
pofe< Now, lir y belides the oath you have
taken, is there any mail who has the leall
acquaintance with the character of Mr.
Jetferfou, who can admit the possibility of
this, against the uniform tenor of a virtuous j
and dignified conduct, without a (ingle fail :
bro't toftipportit.orithe bareinfinuacion that J
lie is at heart an enemy to the Coiiltitution. !
Truc,itis said by this writer,that Mr. J. does j
not fupplefs his difiike of any mehli.'res of I
the government, and that he advised the
adoption of the Coiiltitution on the ground
of expediency, not of its perfection. But
does it follow tha; he ib an enemy to the
government fur these rcafotis ?
then nine-tenths of the people are ene
mies : for it is notorious they difliks and
speak against many ineaftires, ami that
the conltitution was adopted on the very
ground of its being expedient to take it
with its iiWperfeitions, and leave these for
after consideration. Accordingly one of
the firfl aits of Congrfcfs, on the Aiggeftiori
of the Prelident's speech, was to take lip the*
matter, and to remedy the defeats molt
complained of in the cOnfHthtioil. it is to'
be wished this actufer had gdne further in
this matter, and given us the precise objec
tions of Mr. J. Till this is done, \Ve tan-*
not judge of them.—Another charge is,
that he is an enemy to public credit. This,
Sir, may be pronolinted ifnpoffible. He iliay
differ as to the means of fnpporting it. and
the uses to be fliacffe of it, ami may pofFtbly,
as well as others, detest many do£lrines and
ptafl ces combined therewith, and yet be A
true friend to public justice, and a ftailnclt
friend to public Credit. The quotation a
bout HolUnd and Fr'&rice is unintelligible}
and (hews, by its darkness, the design of it.
If there be any foundation for it, let thrf'
letter or extract be produced, or the Atr.eti
cati be deemed in this, as he manifeftly is in
other infiances, a base Calumniator. Th£
next and capital Impeachment is the hi oft
extraordinary that ever entered intO the
heart of man to conceive—that althdugH
the Secretary of Slate holds ia Office, and
receives a falar? in the government, yet he
will not facritke his judgment, his charac
ter, his fidelity, his oath, to measures and
views adopted by his chllcagties. Oh en-'
vy ?— thoii art Airely the blindelt as well as
the base!!: of paffioiis, or thou never would
leleft the hubieft virtue in the patribt cha
racter, for the theifie of thy venomous de
t'iaftion. What mull be the principles,
what the designs of those who conlider eve
ry man in the government as bouud 10 sup
port every measure of it, however \V I*ofig,
however injurious to the |>eople. Or incon
uftent with the coiillitution ; and Who hate
arid defame the man, who, true 10 his trust,
[0 his oath, and to' the people his ton'ftitu
?nts, honestly and boldly refufes to Confpifd
against tllefe sacred obligations.
But as the American has (hewn himfelf fd
unequal to the talk he has undertaken,—-
this virtuous explainer of public charac
ters, is requeued io undertake another,
wherein he cannot be so liable to mistakes.
Let him explain the public character 1 , w'ho'/
if uncontradicted fan e is to be
opposed the coriftittit.bri in the Grand Con
vention, becHufe it was too republican, ami
advocated the Britijh Monarchy as the perfect
(landdrd to be approached to as nearly as tlier
people could be made to bear, and no\v
would impose himfelf 011 the' periple for ;l
pifre republican, and wotild have thelii dis
trust men wlitr have uniformly supported
the coiillitution on republican grounds.
Let the explainer go on —and explain
the public character who on an occasion waif
known to km, could so far divefl himfelf or
gratitude, and revolt from the spirit of his
/latiori, as to erect his litrle crelt against the
magnaniir.OUs Chief wjio at present is at
the head of our f/fci/eftablifhllient ; and has
on lxluny free occations since, spoken with
levity and depreciation of some of the greatest
qualities of that renowned character ; and
now gives hinlfelf out is if h'e Were his inoft
cordial friend and aflrfnrer, and molt wor
thy of public confidence on that account-
But all this may be explained—For, if a
delicacy " equ;!i to that of family connec
tion-," did not oppose, it could be proved to
be the avowed policy of some, to make the
niofl of a great name in furthering their
political views, by holding up its (auction,,
as if" extended in all cases, and by full and
positive approbation, thereto.
This explainer will be further able td
throw great light »rl the combination at
tempted at the approach of peace.ro eftablifti
an efficient government, by means efficient aifo ;
but very ili;rierent from the lepubiican and fret
plan of a Convention ailing by the authority
of the people- This piece of hillOry is much
wanted ; and with the other explanations
which the American, fiom his love of the
people, trtth, and of liberty, it is expected
will not withhold, will be of vast utility.
He will then have the merit, he now on.y
atfefls, Of letting the public into the true
knowledge of public characters it trults ;
and the fatisfaclion, if he is not callous ta
reniorfe. of doing full jultice to the cha- 1
racier of the Secretary of State, by placing
it in loutraft with some which will be so
detected and brought to light. f
Plnhdel. Sept. 7th, 1792.
METROROI.CGICAL OBSERVATIONS,
Augvjl and September, 1792.
D. hil Bar. Ther.jVind. Weath.
(VedntJUay, 29. ( 29.95 65 jS: \V . Fair.
? 29. 85 83 i do. do.
Thar/day, 20. t 29. 8 66 ' W. Fair.
'g 29. 8 _ 7 8 I do. do.
tuday, 31. ( 30. o 58 n-n.W- Fair.
1 30. c 72 ! W
Saturd.Sepl. 1. 6 30. 1 52 Calm I Fair
v 30. 1 75 S. W.|Clehdi.
Sunday, 2. 6 ;o. c• 66 , ,s. \llmn.
s 30. oj 7i N.\V.\Cleat-.
Monday, 3. ( jO. 1 62 | 7s. i hir],.
2 30. i do. \<tU,udy.
Tuejday, 4""T jo, 27 s3 ~
i' JO. 3i 78 L.| p^',From the Daily Advertiser.
To the Mechanics end Munafaßurtrt.
" E (hall know the tree by its fruits. "
1 This it as true in politics, as in a
more important faience. When unsupported
calumnies and barefaced falfehoods are the
ordinary weapons of a party, it is a prooi
that those who compose it are unprincipled
and base. A ftrikijig inflance of the depra
vity of a certain restless faction is to be
found in an aflertion contained in a Ihort
nddrefs to " The Mechanics and Manufac
turers," which made its firlt appearance in
the Independent < azetteer, and was after
wards copied into the National Gazette of
yesterday —11 is in these words, " The in
formation (speaking of certain enquiries
which were fomt- time since made under
the direct.on of the Secretary of the Trea
sury) so acquired by the Secretary, enabled
him to bring forward a lengthy report on
manufactures, to be introduced at the National
ManufaSlory."
Now, the truth is, there is not a single
propofitidn, in the whole of the report al
luded to, from beginning to end, which hat
any special reference to the "National
Manufactory," as it is called ; by which, il
is presumed, is meant, the eflablifhment at
the Paffaick Falls, under a society latelj
incorporated by an act of the (late of New-
Jersey.
The whole tenor of that report is an ela
borate efTay to call the attention of the Le
gislature of the United States to the en
couragement of Manufactures generally, b;
tuhomfoever, or whatsoever, carried on. Anc
for this purpose, a variety of proposition:
. are made; as will be seen by any body whe
will take the pains to read from page 42 tt
58, inclusively.
The adflrefs which contains the above
mentioned aflertion, is the grofleft infull
that could be offered to the underllandingi
of those to whom it is addrefTed. It sup
poses them too ignorant even to read ; foi
any man who can read may, whenever ht
pleases, dete£t the falfehood, which ha:
been endeavored to be imposed upon him
But these conceited impoltors, to their ut
ter confulion, will in every step of theii
progress find their miltake. The people ol
America, of every class, can read and reafot
too ; and will discover and reject all then
vile counterfeits.
Somerimes they attack the Secretary ol
the Treasury, for e.ideavoring to raise a;
manufaElures fajler than ftiiis the Jlate of the coun
try, to tile prejud ce of agriculture. Here
they attempt to make him the enemy of th<
mechanic and manufacturing interests. Bu
what is too bad or too inconliltent for fuel
men to attempt ?
The firtt ground of attack is indeed no
better founded than the last. What wouk
be the difference to the farmers, at this ver;
moment, when rheir surplus prodn&ions ar<
fliut out of every port of J-.urope, by bac
markets, if the country abounded in me
chan.cs and manufactures, to consume thai
surplus, and give in exct'ange the produc*
tions of their labor, inllead of the foreigr
articles which now render us tributary ti
foreign workmen ? The answer to this
queltion is palpable. And the experience ol
th. country, like that of every oiher will
prove that the full profpenty of agriculture is in
feparablefrom thai conflant, Jleady and domejlu
market for the products oj the Jolt, which can alon*
arise from aJiounJhing of manujadures, con-
Jequently from a numerous body oj mechanics am
manufacturers, as consumers ttf the surplus oj thi
farmers labor.
This is one of those eternal truths which
mult for ever confound the vain reveries ol
political quacks. DETECTOR.
August, 23, 1792.
Mr. Printer,
WHEN Detcflor pompously comes for
waid with accusations of calumnly and
falihood, he Ihould be w. II acquainted with tht
ground on which he himlelf Hands. Having with
many others, been confuhed on the questions pro
posed by the Treasury to the mechanics and ma
nufacturers of Philadelphia, I do know that every
part of the address published in your paper of Sa
turday, the iSth inft. and signed A Mechanic, is
itriCtly true. Should Detector, in reality, have
any doubts on this subjeCt, and will come forward
under his proper signature, some faCts fliall be re
lated on this subjeCt, which even the scurrilous a
buse of an anonimous writer will not jultify,
we believe fume of the gentlemen who were made
instrumental in procuring the information for the
Secretary, were not, at that time, aware of the
use to which it was applied. That Certain gentle
men, high in office, and particular fiiends of the
Secretary, made personal application to their fel
low-citizens to procure aniwers to certain leading
qucltionb, respeCting their various occupations
every mechanic and manufacturer can teftify :
that the information so acquired, constitutes the
most valuable part of the Secretary's report on
manufactures, will appear by the report itfelf,
from page 42 to 56. That the Secretary and
DiJER were particularly aCtive in procuring the
eifablifhment of the national manufactory in Jer
fcy, many members nl the legillature will declare,
who feel thernfelves fufficiently mortified for hav
ing allowed fhangers, to influence their govern
ment, to enaCt a law, which, lor injultice to their
citizens, is not to be equalled by any on record.
These circumltances being well known, I heartily
unite in opinion with my brother Mechanic, and
think it ncceffary that the mechanics and manu
facturers Ihould inquire, what advantage citizens
pcrfonallv engaged in manufactures, or out coun
fry, will derive from the establishment of na t,ona
manufactories, wholly supported, and at the
redtion of a monied interest.
We do not think it neceflary to take notice of
the abulive language and sophistry of Detedlor :
our only objedt is, to come at the truth, by a full
111ve(Iii'ation of fads. Besides, as it is the opinion
of DeteElor, that the mechanics and manufactur
ers in Philadelphia can redd t and do begin tc
think for rhcmfelves, the oblervations of a Me
chanic and Detedtor being impartially published
in the fame paper, they will judge for themselves.
If it will be any fatisfadiion to Detector, h«
will be informed, that the hatters have already
onited themselves into a society, as mentionec
by a Mechanic j and it is expedted several other
ccupations will do the fame. The manufactur
ing interest fcverely feel the weight of the new
tyftem of taxes in the neceflaries of life, and the)
are justly apprchenfive of further impositions.
A MANUFACTURER.
August 29.
Terres a Vendre
Dans un pat's bien peupl
S AVOIR, foixante cinq mille, trois cens, foix
ante et quatorze Acres, en une feule piece,
Jans le canton le mieux peuple de la Caroline Me
ridionale* le Difti idt de Ninety-Six* Ces terre
font Atuees dans une contrce agreable, et lalubre
u les fievres font inconnues j a environ vingt lieue,
ae Colombie, la Capitale, et contigues ala villi
de Cambridge, ou il y a College, et Cour fuperi
cure* A environ doure lieue?, il y a bonne navi
Ration ; et il eft tres probaole, que dans quclqui
terns on r> ndra navigable le Grand Saiude, rivien
qui arrofe les terres memes. Elles font agreable
ment diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons charmani
propres a la culture du tabac, du coton, du mais
et du petit grain jet dont une proportion consider
at)le fe peutaifement convertir en praiiies fertiles
II n'eft peut-etre gueres pofiible de rencontrer un
pareilie piece de terre a vendre dans aucun autr
desE r ats Unis jet pour les conditions de Tachat
on les rendra tres commodes*
S'infornier a rimprimerie de la Gazette Na
tionalei Sept. 5.
LANDS for SALE,
IN a well feitled Country. SIXTY FIVI
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED ANI
SEVENTY-FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in on
body, in the molt populous part of the state o
South-Carolina, in the diftridl of Ninety-fix—l
' is situated in a fine healthy from feve
& ague,about sixty miles from Columbia, the sea
of government. The land is contiguous to thi
town of Cambridge, where are a (eminary for thi
. inftrudtion of youth, and a superior law court. I
is at present within about thirty-five miles of goo<
navigation, with a probability of having the river
called the Great Saluaa, that flows along one fid
of the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
fully diveifififd into swells and vales, and is per
fedtly well calculated for the culture of tobacco
I cotton, Indian corn, and small grain 5 a grea
proportion of it may be made meadow ground
There is not, perhaps, luch a body of land, focii
| cumftanced, for sale in any other of the U; States
f The terms of payment will be made convenient ti
the purchaser or purchafeis. Apply to the Printer
j August 29. lawtf
: NEW-YORK & PHILADELPHIA STAGES
I Via Bor dent on and Burlington,
> And SHREWSBURY & PHILADELPHIA
> STAGE,
I" Via Bor dent on,
THE proprietors of the New-York and Phi
Jadelphia and water Stages beg leave
mention, that lor the better accommodation o
- pallengers, they have thought proper to remov
the different packet boais from their former stand
I at the Crooked Billet wharf, to the wharf or docl
ffi immediately next below Arch-street, from whence
I on the firft day of July next, and afterwards,
II convenient packet-boat will start for New-York
f a* usual, on every Sunday, Tucfday, Wednefda
and Thursday, and return on every Tucfday
Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The pafTage t
be made either by the way of Bordenton or Bur
lington, each place to be taken alternately. Far
for pallengeis from Philadelphia to New-Yuri
- 15s.— For Goods pr.cwtj 6s.
j VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
e DAVID WILLIAMSON,
1 Proprietors of the line of New-York and Phi
Jadelphia Stages, by the route of Bordenton
JACOB MYERS,
y AMOS HUTCH IN,
NICHOLAS SCHENK,
Proprietors of the line of N. York and Phila
e delphia Stages, by the route of Burlington,
j The Shrewibury Stage will leave Phtladelphi.
in the months of July and September, on ever)
Sunday and Wednesday, and return on even
s i'uelday and Friday. In the month of August
e it will leave Philadelphia on every Sunday anc
e Thursday, and return on every Tuesday and Sa
e lurday.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
r DANIEL LOT,
. Proprietors of the Shrewsbury and Philad. Stage.
K Bordenton, June 25, 1792.
5 For freight or paflage apply to the masters or
. board, or to M«K.EAN & VAN EMBURGH,
e at their store on said wharf, immediately next be
n low Arch-Street ; by uhom orders for the purcbaji
f, °f kinds of grain f Jiaves, or other country pro
d duce, are punctually attended to,
,e For freight or pafi'age to Lamberton or Tren
. ton, also apply as above. tf.
Philadelphia, June 27.
| r *4* Three handsome Editions of the Laws
j. of the United c fates for sale at this office
> (No. 209 Market jireet) in folio and off a
ld vo, either full or half bound—The
ls I jaws of the lajl Session, in octavo only, may
1- jbe hadfefar ate } prim three eighths of a dollar f
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
■And for Sale at the Printing-Office,
No. 209, Market-Street,
and at Thomas Dobfon's Book-Storcin
Second-Street,
Price Three-Eiektks of a Dollar,
ADVICE
TO THE
PRIVILEGED ORDERS,
in the
SEVERAL STATES of EUROPE,
Resulting from the necefllty and pro
priety of a General Revolution in
the Principle of Government.
By Joel Barlow, Esquire.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale by the Printer,
John M'Culloch, atNo, i. North Third-
Street, and by most of the Book-
Sellers in this city,
(Price 3/9)
MODERN CHIVALRY:
Containing the
Adventures of Capt.John Farrago,
and
Teague O'Regan,
his Servant.
volume 11.
BY H. H. BR AC KENRIDGE.
Quicquid agunt Homines, nojlri, Farrago libtlh.
Juvenal
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. Oswald,
(Price Eleven Pence)
FIVE LETTERS,
addressed to the
Yeomanry of the United States:
CONTAINING some Observations on the
Scheme of Governor Duer and Mr Secreta
ry Hamilton, to eltablifh National Manufactures ,
by a FARMER. This pamphlet, so highly in
teresting at this period, may be had at the follow,
ing places ; at Mr. Oswald's Printing-Office, No,
156, Market-street 5 at No. 209, Market-street :
at Mr. Dobfon's, 41, South Second-street; ai
Mr. Crukfhanks, 91, Market-street j at Mr,
Aitken's, 22, Market-street; and at Mr. Young*!
S. W. corner of Chefnut and Second-streets.
21.
To be publ'tjhed by Subscription,
THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER.
or
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Old C?oiig'Lcj ? ,} }
From September 1774, to March 1789—an au
thentic and original collection of
Official inciterd Sfc.
Written during the late war ; —and Ex.
tra&s from the
<tfecrct
{£jr» [For particulars, fee the Proposals at large.]
Subscriptions are received by the principal
booksellers, and by the Editor,
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Street, Phila
delphia.
Society for eflablifoing ufeful Manufactures.
NOTICE is hereby given to the holders ol
Guik in the said society, that the following
arrangement has been made by the Deputy Go
• rnor and Directors thereof, by a rcfolution oJ
the eighteenth day of May, 1792.
The fccond instalment foi the payment of ftiare:
in the stock of this society, may be made in the
following manner, viz.
The amount of the said second instalment, be
ing 20 13-100 dollars each share. may be paid in
three payments, on condition that tbe lawful in
creft of 7 per cent, per annum, be calculated
and paid with each proportionate part of the said
payment, that is to fay, on or before the thir
eenth day of August next, the sum of 6 71-100,
-vith the addition of 12 cents, being the interest
>f one month on 20 13-100 dollars—on or be
fore the 13th of September next, the sum of 6
ii-100 dollars, with the addition of 8 cents, be
ing the interest for one month on 13 42-100 dol
ar? —and on or before the 13th of OCtober next,
the sum of 6 71-100 dollars, with the addition o!
4 cents, being the interest on the fame for oik
month. The said payments are to be mad# at the
following places, viz. In the city of Philadelphia,
at the bank of the United States—at New-Brunf
wick, in New-Jersey, to John Bayard, or Johr
Neilfon, Efqrs—and in the city of New-York, a!
the bank of New-York, or either of the faic
places, which may be most convenient to tht
(lock holders.
By order of the dire&ior,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerk.
July 24. tf.
FOR. SALE,
ABOUT 100,000 acres of Land, lying: ntit
Whiteftown, in the state of Mew-York, oa
tfte worth fide of the Mohawk river, adjoining
Nobleborough, and will be fold either in parcels
or together, as may suit the purchasers.
N. B. The above tract of land is of the firft
quality in the state, chiefly timbered with beach
find maple, well watered, and contains many mill
feaCs. The peculiar advantages of this trac*, fltu-*
ated within a few miles of Whiteftown (which
contains upwards of five thousand inhabitants)
with an easy and convenient water carriage t#
Schenettady, Albany, and New-York, mak£ it ait
objett for any persons inclined to fettle it, and ren
der it an extremely advantageous purchase for
persons inclined to realize their money in land of
pin encreafing value. The whole tradfc or any part
of it, will be fold very low for cacti, or for part
cafli, and the remaining payments at distant peri
ds. Enquire at No. 229 Queen-street, near the
Fly-market New-York.
J u| y
BOOKS,
Printed, and fold by
MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. American Museum, from its commencement*
in January 1787, to "June 1792, /n eleven volumet
Price, neatly bound and lettered, Seventeen dollar t
and three sis ths,
This work which is now condufled on an im
proved pian, containing the bej} pieces publijhedfor
and againfl the proceedings of government, will be
found to contain at Icaji as great a variety of poli
tical', agricultural, andmtjcillaneous ejjays, as any
ever published in America. Perhaps in no one work
are jo many valuable documents reJpeEling the bijlo-i
ry of this country, colic fled together. His excel-
Icncy the President of the United States, has de
clared of it f that u a more ufeful literary plan
has never been undertaken in America, nor one
more deserving of public encouragement. ** 7be
Jubfcription is two dollars and a half per annum.
Gentlemen in the country who wish to be supplied
with this work, are requejled to give commijjion to
friends in the city to JubJcribe for and receive it.
2. Smith's letter& to married womeu, on nursing
and the management of children. •' fVe recommend
theft letters to theperufal of those to whom tbey art
particularly add'tjjed.' Monthly Review, Vol. jß>
Page 101. Price bound five eighths of a dollar•
Duncan s elements of logic* three fourths of a
dollar•
4. Beauties of Fielding, $0 cents.
5. beauties of Bfo'ir, 50 cents,
0. Ladies' Pocket Library—containing \—M\J4
Morels EJJdys j Gregory's Legacy } Lady Pen
nington's aavice j Marcbionejs of Lambert's ad
vice j Swift's letter to a newly married iady ;
Mrs. Chapcne on command of temper j Mori's fa **
blesfor the ladies—-Price 6/6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Price 41 dol
lar and a quarter.
7, Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, 1.1.d. profejjor of moral pbilojopby and logic
in the Marifcbal College, Aberdeen—Price three
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Critical Re
viewers (vol. 69. p. Jay : 44 We have Jeen
nothing on tbefe fubjetts more piain t more perfpicu
us, or more genera ly ufeful
9. Beauties of Poetry, Price four fifths of a
dollar• •
10. Blair's Sermons,— Price two dollars.
11. PJeckar's Treatise on the importance of reli
gious opinions. Price four fifths of a dollar.
12 Examination of the objervations of Lord Shef
field on American Commerce• Price, on very fine
paper, five eighths cf a dollar.
1 3. The Conjlitutions of the several United States v
with the federal Conjlitution, &c» Price Jive
eighths of a dollar.
14 M'Fingal, Price three eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jed Book, three fifths of *
dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul, half a dollar•
17. The Don ay Tranjlation of the vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto. Price, e<egantly bound and lettered *
50/2 —plain, fix dollars.
Said Carey has for fale t a large assortment of
books, European at well as American editions >
which be will difpoje of on the mofl reasonable terms,
Country gentlemen, who favor him with commands,
may depend upon being Jupplied in the moji fatisfae
tory manner. A liberal allowance to such as pur
cbafe quantities for public libraries, or to Jell again*
May 17. 6m.ia.w.
George Town, June 2, 1792.
A NUMBER of LOTS in every rituatiorr
which may bedefired in the city of Wash*
ington, will be offered for sale, by the Commis
sioners on Monday the Bth day of O£tober next.
One fourth part of the purchase money to be
paid down, the residue in three equal annual pay-,
ments, with yearly interest on the whole princi
pal unpaid. JOHN M. GANTT,
July 25. Clerk to the Commiflioners#
%* For sale at this Offic-, Sermons
the Rev'd Dr. William Linn, of N. York
Price 5/7 1-2.
PRINTED BY
C HIL D S and S WAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE No* 209, HIGH-»TR£&T
JJEAR FIFTH-STREET,
ADELFH ILPJIIA.