Vol. I.
AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the fir ft Seflion, begun and held a' the city ol
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennfylvanis
on Monday the twenty-fourth of O&ober, one
thousand leven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT to eflablifh the Post-Office
and Post-Roads within the Umtec
States.
IJi E it enadedby andHovss
J of Repkesentatives of the Unitec
States of America, in Congrejs ajjembled,
That from and after the firft day oi
June next, the following roads be e
ftahlifhed as post-roads, namely : Frorr
WifeaiTet in the diftrift of Maine, tc
Savannah in Georgia, by the follow
ing route, to wit ; Portland, Portsmouth
Ncwburyport, Ipswich, Salem, Boston
Worcester, Springfield, Hartford, Mid
dletown, New-Haven, Stratford, Fair
field, Norwalk, Stamford, New-York,
Newark, Elizabethtown, Woodbridge.
Brunfwick, Princeton, Trenton, Bris
tol. Philadelphia, Chester, Wilmington
Elkton, Charleftown, Havre de Grace,
Hartford, Baltimore, Biadenfburg,
Georgetown, Alexandria, Colcheftei
Dumfries, Fredrickfburg, Bowling-
Green, Hanover Court-house, Rich
mond, Peterlburg, Halifax, Tarborough,
Smithfield, Faye'tteville, Newbridg«
over Drowning creek, Cheraw Court
house, Camden, Statefburg, Columbia
Cambridge and Augusta; and froir
thence to Savannah, and from Augusta.
by Washington in WilkesCounty tt
Greenborough, and from thence by th«
great falls of Oge'chee and George
town, to Augusta, and from Statefburs
to Charleston, and from Charleston, tc
Georgetown, from Charleston to Savan
nah, and from Savannah, by Newport
bridge to Sunbury ; and also from Portf
iftolith by Exeter and Concord, to Han
over in New-Hampshire ; and frbm Sa
lem to Marblehead, and from Salem tc
Gloucester ; and from Boston, by Pro
vidence, Newport, and New-London
to New-Haven, and from Boston
through Taunton, to New-Bedford
and from Taunton, through Warren &
Bristol, to New-Port, and from Boston
by Plymouth, to Barnftable ; and froni
Springfield in the ftateof Maflachufetts
to Kinderhook in the state of New-
York, and from Springfield, by North
ampton, Brattleborough, and Charlef
town, by Windsor in Vermont, to Han
over, and from Hartford, by Middle
town, to New-London : also from
Hartford to Norwich, and Providcnce :
and from Providence to Worcester, and
from Philadelphia, by Lanaafter, York
town, Cailifle, Shippenfourg, Cham
bcrfburg, Bedford, and Greenfburg, to
Pittfburg ; and from Philadelphia to
Bethlehem ; from Bethlehem, by Read
ing and Harrilburg, to Cailifle, and
from Bethlehem, by Eafton, Sussex
Court-house, Golhen, Ward's Bridge,
and Kingston, to Rhinebeck ; from Phi
ladelphia, by Salem, to Bridgetown ;
arid from Wilmington, by Warwick,
Georgetown, Cross-roads, Cheftertown.
Chester-mills, and Eafton, to Vienna •
and from Vienna, by Sal,(bury, to
Snow-Hill ; also from Wilmington, by
New-Castle, Cantwell's Bridge and
Duck-Creek, to Dover; and from
» C u Ceb J y^lllf P rd ' Da ß fborou g h . Snow-
Hill and IS orthampton Court-hoife to
Norfolk in Virginia ; and from Balti
more to Annapolis, Upper-Marlborough :
Pifcatawa, Port- i obacco, Allen's Frelh,
Newport, and Chaptico, to Leonard-
Town: and from Richmond by Willia m s-
Wg, Yorktownand Hampton, to Nor
folk ; and from Fredericklburg. bvPort
royal and -Tapp*hanock, to Urbanna :
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhtd Mokd ais and Thursdays, ut Three Dollars per annmn*
MONDAY, February 27, 1792.
& from thence, crofting Rappahannock,
& proceeding by Northumberland Court
house, to Kinfale on the river Yeoco
mico, thence by Weflmoreland Court
house, through Leed's town, to Fredfr
icklburg ; and from Pcte-rlburg, by Ca
bin-Point, Smithfield, and Suffolk, to
Portsmouth, and from Suffolk, to Eden
ton, and by Plymouth to Washington ;
and from Washington to Newbern, .v.id
thence to Wilmington ; and from 1 y
etteville, by Elizabethtown, to Wil
mington ; and from Halifax, by War
rington, Hillfborough, Salem, to Salis
bury ; from Halifax, by Blunt'sville,
Vv illiamfton, Daileys to Plymouth ;
and from Edenton, by Hertford, Nik
onton, Sawyer's-Ferry, in Camdtn
County, to Indian Town, in Curritu?k
County ; and from New-York, by Al
bany, Bennington, Manchester and
Rutland, to Burlington on Lake Chani
plain ; and from Albany, by Schenec
tady, to Connajorharrie ; from
York to Hartford, through White
plains, North-Caflle, Salem, Pouncl
ridgc, Ridgefield, Danbury, Newtown,
New-Milford, Litchfield, Harrington
and Farmington ; from Newaik or Eli
zabethtown, by Morriftown, to Sulfex
C ourt-houie ; from Woodbridge to Am
boy; from Alexandria, by Salisbury,
Leefburg, Shepherd's-town, Martinf
burg, Vv inchelter, Stevenlburg, Straf
burg, Woodftock, and Rockingham
C ourt-houle, to Staunton ; and froi)i
Richmond, by Columbia, Charlottci
ville, Staunton, Lexington, Fincaflle,
Montgomery Court-houle, Wythe Court
rioufe, Abingdon, and Hawkin's Court
house, in the territory south of the ri
ver Ohio, to Danville in Kentuckey ;
and from Baltimore, hy Eredericktowu
and Sharpfburg, to Hagarftown ; and
from thence to Chamberiburg: Provid
ed, That the route, by which' the mails
are at present conveyed, {hall in no cafe
be altered, without the consent of the
contractors, till the contracts made by
the Poflmafter-Gencral shall be deter
mined.
And be it further enaEied, That it shall
andmay be lawful for the Postmaster-
General to enter into contrasts, for a
term not exceeding eight years,' for ex
tending the line of polls, and to autho
rize the person or perl'ons, so contrast
ing, to receive, during the continuance
of such contrast, according to the rates
by this ast established, all the po'ftage
which shall arise on letters, hewfpapers
and packets, conveyed by any such
poll; and the roads, therein dcfignatcd,
shall, during the continuance of such
contrast. be deemed and considered as
poll-roads, within the terms and pro-"
Dillons of this ast : Provided, That no
such contrast shall be made, to the di
minution of the revenueof the general
poll-office, and that a duplicate of every
iuch contrast, unde.r hand and seal, shall
within lixty days, after the execution
hereof, be lodged in the office of the
Comptroller of the Treasury of the
United States.
And be it furthcY enacted, That there
lia'lt be eftablilhed, at the feat of the
jovernment of the United States, a gen
ial poll-office. Ar.d there lhall be one
Poftinafter-General, who shall have au
ihority to appoint an afliftant, and de
puty postmasters, at all places where
uch fhajl be found necessary. And he
lhall provide for carrying the mail of
:he United States, by flage-carriages or
borfes, as he may judge mofl expedient;
ind as often as he, having regard to the
produftivenefs thereof, as well as other
:ircumflances shall think proper, and
iehay the expense thereof, with all
ather expenses ariiing on the collection
and management of the revenue of the
poll-office. He shall also have power
:o prelcribe such regulations to the de
puty pod-mailers, and others employed
under him, as may be found necell'ary,
md to superintend the business of the
department; iu all the duties that art:,
or may be afTigned to it, and also to di
rest the route or road, where there art
more than one, between the places
aboveeftablifhed, which route or road
{hall be considered as the post-road.
And be it further enacted, That the
Poftmafter-Geiie.ral shall, once in three
months, obtain from his deputies, the
accounts aud vouchers of their re
ceipts and expenditures, and the balan
ces due thereon, and render to the Se
cretary of the Treasury, a quarterly ac
count of all the receipts and expendi
tures in the said department, to be ad
justed and fettled, as other public ac
counts, and shall pay, quarterly, int<
the Treasury of the United States, thi
balance in his hands. And the Post
master-General, and his assistant, th(
deputy postmasters, and such as the)
may employ in their offices, shall, re
fpeftively, before they enter upon the
duties, or be entitled to receive the e
moluments of their offices, and the con
trattors for carrying the mail, and then
agents or servants, to whom the mail
shall be entrusted, before they corn
men cc the execution of said trust, shall
rcfpe&ively, take and fubferibe before
fotne justice of the peace, the follow
ing oath or affirmation, and cause a cer
tificate thereof to be filed in the officc
of the Postmaster-General ; " I dc
(wear (or affirm as the cafe maybe) thai
I will faithfully perform all the duties
required of me, and abstain from every
thing forbidden by the law in relation
to the establishment of poft-offices and
post-roads within the United States."
And be it further enabled, That il
any person shall obftrutt or retard the
passage of the mail, or of any horse 01
carriage carrying the fame, he shall.
upon convi&ion for every fuchofFence.
pay a fine not exceeding one hundred
dollars. And if any ferryman shall.
by wilful negligence, or refufal totranf
port the mail across any ferry, delay
the fame, he shall forfeit, and pay, foi
each half hour that the fame shall be so
delayed, a sum not exceeding ten dol
lars;
And be it further enacted, That it
shall be the duty of the Postmaster-Ge
neral, to give public notice in one or
more of the newspapers published at
the feat of government of the United
States, and in one or more of the news
papers published in the state or states
where the contrast is to be performed,
for, at least, fix weeks before the enter
ing into any contrast for the convey
ance of the.mail that such contrafl is
intended to be made, and the day on
which it fliall be concluded ; defctibing
the places, from and to which such
mail is to be conveyed ; the time at
which it is to be made up ; the day and
hour, at which it is to be delivered :
and the penalty or penalties for non
performance of the stipulations. Pfc
shall, moreover, within thirty days after
the making ef any contrast, lodge .the
ijme, togefher with the proposals
which he shall have received respec
ting the fame, in the office of the Comp
:rollcr of the treasury of the United
States.
And be it further enatfed, That every
deputy postmaster shall keep an officc
:n which one or more persons shall at
:end at such hours as the Poftmafter-Ge
leral shall direst, for the purpose of
performing the duties thereof. And all
betters brought to any poft-office, half
in hour before the time of making up
;he mail at such office, shall be forward
ed therein.
And be it further enabled, That from
and after the passing of this ast, the
Postmaster-General shall be allowed,for
his services, at the rateof two thoufand
dollars per annum, his assistant, at the
rate of one thousand dollars per an
num, to be paid, quarterly, out of the
revenues of the poft-office: And no
fees or perquisites shall be received by
Numb. 35.
either of them,'on account of the duties
to be performed in virtue of their ap
pointments.
And be it further cn.aft.ed, That from
and after the lirft day of June next,
the deputy poflmafter and persons au--
thorized by. the Postmaster-General,
shall demand and receive, for the poft
ige and conveyance of letters and
packets, except such as are hereinafter
.'Xcepted, according to the several rates
ihd sums following: For the portage
jf every single letter, to or from any
place by land not exceeding thirty
niles, fix cents; over thirty mi 1&, and
not exceeding sixty, eight cents ; over
ixty miles, and not exceeding one
lundred, ten cents; over one hundrfcd
niles, and not exceeding one hundred
md fifty, twelve cents and a half; over
Jne hundred and fifty miles, and not
:xceeding two hundred, fifteen cents ;
>ver two hundred miles, and not ex
ceeding two hundred and fifty, leven
een cents ; over two hundred and fif
y miles, and not exceeding three hun-
Ired and fifty, twenty cents ; over three
lundred and fifty miles, and not exceed
ng four hundred and fifty, twenty-two
:cnts ; and to or from any place by
and, more than four hundred and fifty
niles, twenty-five cents; and every
louble letter shall pay double the said
ates ; every triple letter, triple ; every
racket weighing one ounce avoirdu-
Dois, to pay, at the rate of four single
etters for each ounce, and in that pto
jortion, for any greater weight.
And.be it further enacted. That all let
ters and packets, passing by sea to and
lom the United States, or from one
3ort to another therein, in packet boats
ir vessels, the property of, or provided
)y the United States, shall be rated
ind charged, as follows: For every
ingle letter, eight cents ; for every dou
ble letter, sixteen cents ; for every tri
ple letter or packet, twenty-four cents;
"or every letter or packet brought into
he United States, or carried from one
sort therein to another by sea, in any
private {hip or veflel, four cents, if
delivered at the place where the fame
"hall arrive ; and if directed to be de
ivered at any other place, with the
addition of the like postage, as other
letters are made subject to the payment
jfby this act.
And be it further enacted, That if any
icputy poflmafter, or other person au
thorized by the Postmaster-General, to
cCeive the postages of letters, {hall
fraudulently demand or receive anv
rate of postage, or any gratuity or re
ward, otherthan is provided by this ast
for the postage of letters or packets, on
ttonvifltion thereof, he shall forfeit for
;very such offence, one hundred dol
ars, and shall be rendered incapable of
lolding any office under the United
states.
And be it further enacted, That no Chip
jr vessel, arriving? at any port within
he United States, 'where a' poft-office is
;ftablifhed, shall be permitted to report,
-nake entry 6r break bulk, till the maf
:er 01 commander shall have delivered
:o the paftmafter,all letters dire&ed to.
any peyfop or perfops within the Unit
id States, which, under hiscareorwith
in his power, (hall be brought in such
(hip or vessel, •other" than such as arc
directed to the owner or Consignee : but
when a vessel shall be bound to another
port,' thin that, at whicfi fire may enter,
the letters belonging to, or to be deliv
ered at. the said port of delivery, shall
not be delivered to the postmaster at the
port of entry. And it shall be the du
ty of the collc&or or other officer of the
port, empowered to receive entries of
[hips or vessels, to require from every
master or commander of such ship or
vessel, an oath or affirmation, purport
ing that he has delivered all luch let
ters, except as aforefaid.
. (See lajf page.)PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, Feb. 22.
The Senate of the United States, and
the members of the House of Representa
tives, went in proceflion from the federal
hall to wait on the PreGdent of the United
States at his honfe, to compliment him 01;
the anniversary of his birth-day.
The Representatives having retnrned tc
the house, an engrossed bill, providing for
the settlement of the claims ot persons un
der particular circumstances, barred by the
limitations heretofore eftabliflied, was reac
the third time, paifed, and sent to the se
nate for their concurrence.
The bill, in the present state, proposes—
" That the operation of the resolutions o!
the late Congress of the United States, pas
sed on the 2d day of November 1785, anc
the 23d day of July 1787, lb far as the}
have barred or may be construed to bai
the claims of any officer, soldier, artificer.
(ailor or marine, of the late army or uav 3
of the United States, for personal service:
rendeijpd to the United States in the mili
tary or naval department, shall, from anc
after the palling of this act, be iufpendec
for and during the term of two years; anc
that every such officer, soldier, artificer
Jailor and marine, having claims for fervi
ces rendered to the United States in th<
military or naval department, who liial
exhibit the fame for liquidation, at theTrea
fury of the United States, at any time during
the said term of two years, (hall be entitled tt
an adjultment and allowance thereof, on th(
fame principles, as if the fame had been ex
hibited within the term prefcribec! by th<
aforefaid resolutions of Congress."
' And further that no balances, hereaf
ter to be certified as due from the Unitec
States, fhail be registered in any other namt
than that of the original claimant, or o.
his heirs, executors, or administrators
and such balances shall be transferable on
ly at the treasury, in pursuance of such ge
neral rules, as have been or lhall be pre
scribed for that purpose.'
Mr. Gerry brought forward a refolutioi
for the appointment of a committee, tt
bring in a bill, for reducing the rates o:
poltage upon newspapers.
It was ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Fitzfimons, from the committee, tt
whom were referred, on the Bth instant
a meflage from the President of the Unitec
States, and a letter from the secretary o
Hate, relative to certain expenses incurret
for the liberation and relief of Americai
sailors, imprefled to serve in the British na
vy, —made a report, which was receivec
and read.
A number of petitions were read, pray
ing coinpenl'atio:i for services rendered
renewal of certificates destroyed, relie:
lor wounds received, for depreciation o
bills,&c. which were severally read, anc
referred, or ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Laurance presented a petitioi
from lundry merchants of the city of New
York, praying to be indulged in a longei
term for the payment of the duties on tea:
by them imported from China, —referred t<
a special committee, to examine and re
port.
The following resolution, laid on the ta
ble by Mr. Livermore, on Monday last
was called up, and referred to a committei
of the whole house,
'Whereas the late Major Gen. N
Greene, on the Bth day of April, 1783, th<
more effectually to procure rations ant
supplies for the southern army of the Unitec
States, became bound as surety for Johi
Banks and Co. to Mefl'rs. Newcomen ant
Collet, merchants in Charleston, for th<
payment of/". 5743 : 15 : 6 sterling money
being the condition of said boiid ant
whereas, on he lft day of May 1786, tlx
balance of principal and interelt of the faic
bond, being then/'. 8688 : 6 sterling wa
paid by the fa;d General Greene ;—there
fore'
' Resolved, That the United States fhal
indemnify the estate of the said Gen. G reene
lor the said Aim last mentioned, and the in
terest thereof; —Provided the executor;
ot the laid General Greene, shall accouni
for a lnm, being about £2,000 (be the famt
more or less) recovered of John Ferrie
one of the partners of the said Banks ant
Co. ;o be in part of the indemnificatlor
aforefaid ; and also (hall make over foi
the use of the United States, all mortgages
bonds, covenants, or other counter-securi
ties whatsoever, now due, which were ob
tained by the said Gen. Greene in his lift
time, from the said Banks and Co. 011 ac
count of his being surety for the® as afore
faid, to be fuetl lor in the name of the fait
executors, for the use of the United States ;
. allc l that a committee be appointed tc
bring in a bill, to enable the officers of the
treaiury to carry tins resolution into ef
fect.'
After a fliort debate, and the reading of
a number of papers relative to the bufmefs,
the committee rose, reported progress, anti
affied leave to, fit again;
Thursday, Feb. 23.
Several petitions were read, praying re
newals of certificates, pe'nfions, and com
pensations for services rendered—which
were referred to the heads of the propel
departments—A petition was also read,
from. sundry inhabitants of the county oi
Hardy, in Virginia, praying re'vifion ant!
amendment of certain parts of the Exctfl
law —which was ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Boudinot, from the committee tc
whom were referred the petitions of the
tanners of New-York, New-Jersey, ant
Pennsylvania, made a report which wi:
read, and ordered to lie on the table.—li
appears from this report, that an individu
al in Great-Britain enjoys a patent for the
importation of tanners' bark into that coun
try, and that his agents pur chafe up that ar
ticle, in different parts of the United States
at so high a price, as materially to injure
the tanning business here.—This being con
fidered by the committee, as a fubjett o;
importance, and intimately connected wit!
the agricultural interefi, and the expori
trade, they are of opinion, that the confi
deration of it ought to be postponed to the
next session of Congress ; but recomment
in the mean time, as a temporary provision
additional duties on imported articles of tlx
leather manufacture.
A mefl'age was received from the Senate
by "Mr. Otis, informing the House that the
Senate have palled the bill making provi
sion for the defence of the frontiers, wit!
several amendments to which the concur'
rence of the House w as desired.
A motion was made that the House dt
come to the following resolution, viz.
" Refolvetl that the Secretary of tht
Treasury cause to be laid before theHoufe;
statement of the balances, ifany, remainiiiE
unpaid, which may have been due by indivi
duals to the United States, previous to the
4th day of March, 1-89; and whether any
and what iteps have been taken to recover
the fame ; and also a statement of the luu
dryfums of public monies, which may have
been entrusted to individuals, previous tc
the said 4th of March, 1789, and have not
been accounted for."
It was moved and seconded, that the faic
resolution be committed ; and on the t;uef
[ion for commitment, it was refolvetl in the
affirmative—yeas 31, nays 27. —Thofewhc
voted in the affirmative are Mefl'rs. Ames.
Baldwin, Barnwell, Benfon, Boudinot.
Bourne, B. Bourne, Clarke, Dayton, Find
ley, Fitzfimons, Goodhue, Gregg, Hart
ley, Heifter, Hillhoufe, Huger, Jacobs,
Knttera, Learned, Livermore, Muhlenberg.
Murray, Sedgwick,. W. Smith, Sterrett.
Sturg.es, Sylvester, Wadfworth, Wayne,
Willis, —Negative —Mefl'rs. Afiie, Brown,
Gerry, Oilman, Grove, Key, Kitchell, Lee,
Macon,Madifon,Moore,Nites,Page,Parker,
Schoonmaker, Seney, J. Smith, 1. Smith,
Steele, Sumpter, Thatcher, Tredwell,
Tucker, Venable, Vining, VVh te, Willi
anifon.- —The re olution _ was accordingly
committed to Mefl'rs. Boudinot, Dayton,
Gerry, Smith, (N.H.) and Bourne, (R.I.J
The House then, in committee of the
whole, resumed the consideration of the
Resolution [fee Wednesday's proceedings]
to indemnify the estate of the late General
Greene—After some debate, the committee
rose, reported progress, and asked leave to
lit again.
Friday, Feb. 24.
Sundry petitions were read, and refer
red to the heads of departments—The
lioufe then proceeded to take into consi
deration the amendments proposed by the
Senate to the bill making furtfier and more
effectual provision for the defenfe of the
Frontiers of the United States.
This business being of a private nature,
the galleries were ordered to be cleared.
ior the National Gazette.
Mr. FreneAu,
SQMK time ago, to my great astonish
ment, I oblerved by your paper that a
petition from the county of I redbrick,
011 the fubjeit of the Exajetaw, was referred
to tile Secretary of the Treasury. This
subject ha ; been so fully handled by able
the purpose of reform, which in particular
cases may be proper, that if my abilities
were equal to it, I fliould only attempt
some remarks 011 the petition I have notic
ed. Above all counties in the Union, the
one in queflion, from my general know
ledge ot it, should have been among the ve
ry fall to have made complaint. A large
manufactory of (tills has long been eita
blilhed in the heart of the county, where
they may be repaired or purchased at any
moment, and frequently obtained by bar
ter, for the produce of the farm. —Streams
of \\ ater are happily situated in every
neighbourhood for the convenience of this
business ; and the essential article of grain,
more especially of rye, Is as cheap, if not
cheaper, than 011 any part of the continent,
not more remote from navigation—This
circumstance proceeds from the fertility of
the foil, the htnefs of the climate, and tLe
habit which the Dutch, and other farmers,
are in, ot making that species of' grain :
firev ood is also abundant, and althoughtfie
buildings necefl'ary are not expeijljvc,' yet,
whether offlone or v. ooc!, die materials arc
safily obtained ; mills too for the purpose
nf chopping the grain are mimefous —Spirits
from rye are almoit uitiverfally used, and in
i'uch demand that it is not easy to meet with
afihgle barrel for sale when the season closes
t'or carrying 011 the bufi'nefs.—lt may be
urged, that the augmentation of the price
bears hard upon the labourer ; to this I re
ply, that wherever he works, it is in com
mon found him; and that whenever it
happens otherwise, he may well afford to
purchase it himfelf, fuppoiTng it to be ne
cetfary, as 110 county offers more extrava
gant hire to the labouring man, than the
uue in view ; and that the necessaries of life
are to be had on the 1110 ft moderate terms.
Here it may not be amiss to observe, that
perhaps without a single exception, the dis
tillers have added the tax on all the Ipirk:
they had on hand, previous to the paymen;
of any tax, and like moll men in pursuit oi
gain, have, I am confident, used the mo
ment of complaint, to their own profit, b\
adding to the former price, a larger fun:
than the tax now amounts to—Are theft
fit complainants ? I am not what may be
termed a blind citizen—l hold it the duty
of every American to think, ast, speak, anc:
remonlirate as a free man when he has jufl
ciufe of complaint: but I fear, fir, that ir
every county or diftrift. there may be
found a man, or men, whose true charac
ters when traced, may be deemed prejudi
cial to the community, from a difconterit
ed, factious temper; or what is worse, en
joying all the rights of an American citizen,
difafle&e'd to its government; from this
class I do not exclude the native, ar.d with
real concern must own, that I have met
with filch mischievous characters, even
among them. I am a friend to every
branch of buiinefs, and wifli the di (tiller
veil, but aware of the inimenfe profit he
makes, and the impropriety of the present
petition, I hope, though Congress mult give
it a hearing, that they will not grant it.
From my lignature I have no local preju
dices, and therefore acknowledge my rea
diness to contribute, if necessary, to a hea
vy tax, provided it be founded on neceflity
and equality — a refpe£tabie treasury chell
is to make us respectable as a nation.
A Continent a list.
Feb. 7, 179:.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Mr Freneau,
YOUR friends in Virginia will observe bj
the conllitution of the Philadelphia county
society that one objeCt of the infliction is to pro
mote domcftic manufactures.. Me are attentive
that our farms should not only supply our families
with houlhold linen, but as much as politic with
svery article ofcloathing. When it is not conveni
ent to have the different parts of the work perform
ed by the family, the poor neighbor?-, are employed
who for the most pait receive the produce of the
larm in pay for their fervicesjby this means a Am
ple exchange of property takes place between the
manufacturer and farmer, greatly to the advant
ige of both. I have now a coat in use made from
he wool of my farm which (lands me in but five
hillings per yard. Englilh cloth of the fame
quality cannot be purchased out of the llores foi
lei's than seven (hillings. lam convinced from
:xperience that a steady attention to domestic ma
nufactures makes at least a saving of fifty pet cent
:o the American farmer, particularly where his fa
mily is numerous This method of encouraging
American manufactures is flow, but it has a firm
foundation, and they will 110 doubt improve when
ever the real friends of this country give them a
decided preference to the finer, but more flimfy
productions of Europe.
Knowing the advantages to be derived from
agricultural societies, 1 fmcerely wifli that success
may attend the introduction of them in Virginia.
Such institutions fliould take place in every conn
y of that valuable (late ; each society (hould be
n pofieffion of a colletficn of books 011 agriculture
or the use of the members - all of Mr. i oung's
works on this important subjeCt are valuable, par
ticularly his last publications-—his annals contain
nuch practical information, f/arfhall's publicati
ons alf'o merit attention. The Rev. Mr. Hart's
liifays on agriculture are wrote with elegance ar.<:
aurity ; his observations en the culture of Lucetn
ire highly eftecmed. Home's Gentleman-Farmer
is a valuable book. Altho' this gentleman was one
3f the lords of leflion in Sccdand, he found leisure
U> give a practical altention to agriculture ; he
improved his farm at Kaimet near Stirling in the
new method of husbandry, and by his laudable
example anel writings contributed to render his
:ountry more productive, wealthy, and happy.
Many other authors antient and modern merit to
3e placed in an agricultural library.
A FARMER.
JranJlation of an original State Paper, recently
received from Cape-Fraxccis.]
Reply of the National Civil Deputies to the
persons all'embled at Croix des Bouquets.
(Continued, from our last, and concluded.)
IHE proclamation publifiied by us, was cal
culated to promote a like fpiritof oblivion in (his
:fland, and therefore precludes all discussion on
'nutters relative to the revolution, anterior to our
Publication ot a general amnelly in St. Domin
i°-
We have consequently nothing to do with the
■a£ls you meniion, further than as they may
crve to throw light upon the future, or as they
Tiav tend to excite compassion in our-breafls for
ihofe persons who have loft their relations and
their frit-nds, and in whole farrows we take our
full (hare.
In the third place. The national declaration
of rights is no more than an acknowledgement
ofthofe eternal truths, which are as well under
flood at Conßaniinople or Indoftan, as they are
in France, and did exifl as well in the day.- of
Mo'es or Lycurgus, as at the conclulion of the
eighteenth ceniury.—Notwithftanciing which,
we fee slaves arr.ongft the Turks : the Lacede
monians had their Helots ; the Indians are dis
tributed into cojls, or clans; and the Ifraehtes
were parcelled into tribes. Happy is that na
tion, who, like France, is arrived to such a ma
turity ol judgment as to lay the foundations of
us confiitution 111 the rights of men and citizen
ihip 1 But oilier nations, who have composed
their systems out of inferior materials, are no
Ids bodies politic and inverted with fullpoweis
of government, than naiions the mod free.—ln
luch, it ought to be the endeavor of the rulers
' and the ruled to extract thegreatefl polTible sum
ol happinels for every individual in the fphete
that is a digued him, after having fully investi
gated the relaiions in which the several ranks of
a nation fland to each other.
Our colonics, taking the word asafluallv un
derftoodin France, are the integral, or compo
nent parts of the empire; but, whoever uses
the word colony, understands thereby at the
lame time, a part of the empire separated from
the centre by the vast ocean, peopled by a mot
ley mixture ol whites, blacks, freemen, slaves;
and a mixture, again, of blacks ar.d whites.—
'i hey alio underfland thereby a part of the em
pire, which by the nature of its population, is
under the neceflity of adopting a local confiitu
tion, providing for the llate and condition of
slaves, as well as for the political government
°f tbofe who arealieady in pofTefTion of certain
civil rights, and claim the right of cirizenfhtp.
1 his opinion was embraced by the rellorers
of the liberties of France, from the firft moment
that they contemplated the situation of ihe colo
nies. The decree of March Bth, 1790, author
izes every colonial alfemblv, then in being, to
declare their opinion what kind of conllitution
would bell meet their withes, and the mode of
legislation and sdminiflrative government that
would be best adapted to promote their profpe
ri'.y. Ihe national assembly (you will observe)
was not ignorant that the colonial admimfliations,
then in being, were composed of whites only.
Ii follows, of courie, that, in their judgment,
the whites were alone in a capacity to legislate
for people of colour ; although the latter had
previously demanded a participation of equal
lights. They fupnofed too, at the Lme time,
that the whites would be so jull as to grant the
mulattoes every privilege, compatible°wiih ihe
order of things already eflablifhed in local cir»
cumflances, and not too hastily destroying cer
tain prejudices, too powerful to be conquered by
mealures of precipitation—They were alio con
vinced, that fu'cli ughts as were aQually grantctl
bv the whites would rather command the gra
titude of the mulattoes, than the contrary.
The national afTembly, in their decree of Oc
tober 12, 1790, firmly established it as a conflitu
lional article in the organization of the colonies,
that no general law refpefling the condition of
persons in the colonies should be enforced, ex
cept at the particular and formal requifmon of
the colonial alfemblies.
It however, by their decree of May 15, 17.91,
aflembly took upon itlelf to limit a part
of theie rights, they were carcful not to includc
luch ast in a conftituLing article ; having on the
13th of the fame month, enatled conftitutional
-1 y such laws as related to the condition of slaves.
We will observe that the national aflembly
comprehended in itlelf all the constituting and
legillating powers, which it never confounded,
but oil. the contrary, at all times used thegreatefl
precaution in declaring ccnftitutional such edicts
»S they did not suppose capable of alteration ;
as to others, reputed merely rcgleinentary laws,
they remained liable to their own revilion, as
well as that ol the subordinate Irgiflatures.—The
iimpiecompanion of the two lafi mentioned de
crees, made for the fame parts ol the kingdom
within forty-eight hours of each other, is a proof
that the national assembly considered the firft as
irrevocably ordained while the second depend
ed upon the reception the law met with in the
colonies.
1 heir cautionary manner of proceeding was
fully juflificd by what has since happened in this
illand. Ihe mere report of the decree of May
1 th was the occasion of luch a horrid affray as
had well nigh overwhelmed in one indifcriini
nate deluge of blood, whites, mulattoes, and
slaves. '1 he danger was so prtfling that the
general commandant was obliged to adopt, upon
his own responsibility, such measures as he
thought mofl likely to prevent the extremity of
milchief : he went so far as to promise, for the
lake of laving the colony, that the decree should
not be published, although officially received.
1 he national assembly have done their endea
vour to annihilate the prejudices existing against
the mulattoes. They did not wish to ruin the
colonies, which are a source of prosperity to the
commerce and manufactures of the kingdom ;
much less to foment the honors of civil out
rage and calamity. It was their wifh 9 by cfta-
the confiitution, which the king has
lince accepted, to place even the humblest citizen
above the most ennobled fubje&s of other
countries, fhey conceived that between the
limple citizen, and him who is such in the fulleft
extent of the word in the colonics, there are
certain intermediate grades, or degrees of rank,
which can only be fairly eflimated 011 the spot
where they exifl. Being taught experience by
the unfortunate refill* of th*-.r benevolent e'ndeavours, they old, Dn the 24th of Septr*nb»r lafy
inthefull extent of their conftituung poweis,
decree as follows :
" The laws refpc£ting the fittiation of perfom
not free, and the political condition of mulattoe:
and free negroes, as well as the regulations re
lative to the execution cJ ihofe laws, shall be
pasTed by the colonial aflemblies, actually ex
ifting, and by thole that (hall succeed them.—
They (hall be executed provilionally, with th<
approbation of the governors of the colonics
during the space of one year for the Americai
colonies, and two years for the colonies beyon;
the Cape of Good-Hope, and fiiall be forth!
with presented for the ultimate approbation oj
the king, without any previous decree operating
to prevent the full exeicife of the power con
ferred by the present article upon the colonia
afTemblies."
This decree was accepted by the king as con
stitutional, and is no less the palladium of the
mulattoes of St. Domingo, than of the whites
The existing legislature, and its successor, coulc
make no alterations in the constitutional article!
after fettling the forms of revision ; neither couh
such alterations, if proposed, take place,
demanded by three lucceflive legislatures ; whicf
effectually prevents the conOitution from bein<
touched, with this view, for at least ten years
It is only, then, the colonial aflembly, a6tuall)
in being (since it has exited from the 24th o
September) that were capable of judging wha
laws should be made to ascertain the politica
rights of the mulattoes—and neither you, no
ourselves, not the king, nor the present legislaj
tive atlembly, nor the tour which (hall fucceev
it, can alter a fuigle iota of this right.
Such is the law—Are you Frenchmen ?—Re
fpcct it ; obey the will of the conllitutiona
powers; and do not presume to infringe it unde
pretence of expecting regulating laVs, or 111 lit
ti.ring reproaches against a colonial affeiubly
confliruted by the nation and the king.
Will you undertake to fay that a declarator
of the rights of man, and of citizens, annuls <
decree that contradicts such a declaration ? Re
member, that youinhabit a colony, and that yoi:
cannot claim the general benefits of that declara
tion except by renouncing your own private
rights ; and that you have not the power toabo
lifli that state of slavery in the islands which th<
reltorers of French liberty have been compelled,
by the irrevocable decrec of destiny, to leave
u ntouched.
Will you dare so far to mi (interpret the de
.cree of the constituting body, as to oppose 1
with your public afis of agreement and you
treaty of peace ?—Firft, calculate the unitee
itrength of your fourteen revolted parishes, anc
then judge if it will be adequate to the making
head against the remainder of the colony ant
25 millions of people in old Fiance.
In the fourth place. Although it were trui
tnat perfett peace prevailed in your two depart
nients, in consequence of your concordats ant
treaties of pacification, this apparent calm may
notwithflanding, be the effeCt oi the ulurped pow
er of an armed crew of insurgents, and a v ; ola|
tion of all the constitutional principles ; and w<
cannot without an infringement of our duty
while we are taking measures to preserve orde
and tranquility, avoid declaring your treaties t(
be null and of no efFeCt. The reasons we havt
already assigned are fufficfent to prove this.
We will add, that French citizens cannot
conftiiutionally, form themselves into a body, 01
aflume the functions of government, except ir
the three following cases. —Fuji, In primar)
afTemblies, for the lolepurpofe of naming repre
fentatives, and such public officers, the choic<
of whom lies with the people, abitracted frorr
every other obje£t.—Secondly, 111 aflembl-ies o
the commonalty, which cannot be held, chal
lenged. or authoiiied unless for purposes fimpl)
municipal-, or such as have for their ob e£t tiit
absolute intcrefls of the community. AH othei
.convocations and deliberations of the people, o
parties of the people, for other purposes, are voic
and illegal. —Thirdly, In aflemblies petitionary
As the right to petition is inherent, it camio
be delegated, neither to deputies nor to admi
niftrative councils, nor be excrcifed collettivelj
by any public bodies or association of citizen;
whatever.
These, gentlemen, are the only three cases ir
which it is lawful, by the conOitution of France
for people to aflembLe to deliberate on politica
acts; and in all these three cases, they are
10 aflemble with arms.
From the time that the French constitu
tion was definitively fettled by the coniji
tuting body, and since its acceptance by the
king, the articles we have cited are confi
clered asfo many axioms, 01* felf evideni
truths, at the very mention of which ever)
good frenchman is bound to submit him
felt and yield obedience thereto : \\ e fhal
not waste time in repeating to you those wife
reasons, upon the authority of which theft
great queitions have been decided by some
of the most enlightened men of the prefeni
age. We only fay to you, in one word.
that if you are French, you will immedi
ately renounce your unjust pretentions]
your unconflitutional demands, which not
only tend to disturbing the repose of the co
lony, but menace the supremacy of the tia
tion. We tell you then, in the anguish of cur
hearts, that ifyouperfy in your errors, we J ha/fit
under the neujjity oj employing againjlycu, forces
iL'hick it will be impojfibie for you to
We conftamly flatter ourselves that yon
will not be deaf to the voice of reason, anil
that our proclamation will excite some se
rious reflexions in your minds. We ace
not without hopes that even this letter wit 1
work some conviction in you ; and that the
evils which now diftfaft your territories,
will cease as soon as you have read this our
answer. Hasten, by your fubmiflion to the
decrees of the constituting body, accented
by the king, to enable us to behold itl yon
nothing worse than Frenchmen who re
pent oftheir folly.
Doubt not, gentlemen, that the Colonial
\flembly will immediately take into con
lideration the political condition of the mu-
and free negroes, and will grant
them every privilege cempatible with the
organization of colonial government ; and
if, in your opinion, they dp not act in the
mariner and with the impartial justice thai
is your due, you are then at liberty to
id opt the legal means of redrefting your
selves, by petitioning the king. Louis XVI.
las given too many proofs of his affection
for the French nation, as well as of his love
>f jultice and public happiness, to fuffer
you to labour under any grievances, occa
iioned by his functioning the lawa relative to
the condition of the Inhabitants of the Co
lonies.
But, gentlemen, until you return to your
duty, the colonial afleir.oiy, the General,
the national civil deputies, the King ant 1
the nation, mult consider you in the lighi
of obstinate rebels, who will not take the
benefit of the general act of pardon publish
ed through the island.
Fifthly—We will come into your province
with as much (peed as joy, the moment we
receive accounts of your fubmiflion to the
law,
The National Civil Deputies, delegatec
by the King to the French Americar
Leeward Islands.
Signed,
De Mireeck, Roume, & de St. Leger
Ade r, Secretary of the deputation.
EXETER, February 4,
Extrail of a letler from Boson, January 28.
" With refpeft to politics we have nont
xcept the town police, which arose the
ast week to an extravagant height, owing
o the present attempt for an incorporation
vhich the mechanical interest are mucl
>ppofed to. The debates in town-meet
ng last Thursday were very warm ant
•igh on both fides ; which was the fullel
•ver known in this town. The mode o:
ncorporation was rejected. — There ha
>een large mobs every succeeding eveninj
>n 'Change, in order to mob Mr. R'.'.flel
he Printer ; but have as yet been prevent
'd, by the timely interposition of" civil aiv
hority. Their reasons for attempting i
vere these—At the meeting on Thursday
Vlr. Benjamin Austin was chosen on the oni
ide, and Mr. Benjamin Rufiel on the other
:o count the freeholders present, in orde:
:o auertain fair votes, &c. But Mr. Auf
:in tho't hinifelf degraded in being chofei
with Mr. Rufiel, and declined the office
Vlr. Rufiel could not swallow so open ai
sflront, and when the meeting was over
le met Mr. Austin 011 the 'Change, when
jlows, See. ensued—but they were foOnfe
jarated. In the evening the mechanics
.vhofe interest Mr. Austin espoused, aflen>
)led in order to demolish Mr. Rufiel's of
ice ; they were however prevented ; am
ast evening they aflembled again to th<
lumber of several hundreds, but to the lame
:fi'e£t. We are at a loss how it will ternii
■ate."
PHILADELPHIA.
February 27, 1792.
Sundry papers, we hear, are now before
he Senate of the United States, relative tc
:he formation of a treaty of pacificatior
ivith the kingdom of Algiers.
On Sunday the 19th instant left this city
or the Cherokee the fix Indiar
Chiefs who arrived here on the 29th ol
December last ; together with the SqUaw.
■vho came with them. They were attendee
,vith lix: waggons, containing their baggage,
>rovifion, &c. and accompanied by a white
;irl, who had smitten the heart of One ol
he chiefs, during his refidenceinthis city ;
md, it is said, has consented to become his
wife.
The senate of this state have pafit'd a
:efolution inftrufting their senators ijx Con
irefs to exert their influence, that the de
lates of the senate of the United States
liquid be made public.
The persons who were in confinement at
Claverack, charged with the murder of the
latefheriff Hogeboom, or of having been
niding or aflifting therein, have all been ac
quitted by a jury of their country.
011 the 4th instant was held a meeting of
and near Holiday's cove, when several reso
lutions were adopted, relative to the de
fence of the frontier.—ln these refolutiont
they obligate themselves, to lupport the
present frontier to the last extremity, the
line of which they fix on the river Ohio, as
he fafeft ;-.nd most: easily maintained—tc
•reel: strong fortrefles within their ovvr
rounds as places of refuge for their woineit
and children, in cafe of an Indian invalior
—to keep at all times one gun in readiness.
with ammunition, &c. at a minute's warn
ing—to petition the lieutenant of the coun
ty against drafting the militia to ferveat a
distance from their own residence, and, last
ly, to request public assistance, from the pe
culiarity of their (ituation, as being a fron
tier to two states.
Late accounts from Jamaica inform, that
tworegiments of soldiers have arrived there
from England-; and that martial law.
which had been declared some time before,
u consequence of some indications of a ne
;ro revolt, had been taken off- —At Port
m-Prince matters were itil! in an unfettlei
.vay, and the will of the party that happen
:d to be strongest, the only law.
On the 14th of November last a proport
ion was made in the national afiembly o]
r'rance, that the signing the contrailfacial oi
]- J. Roufleau should be t(ie firft condition oi
:itizenlhip. All those, said the orator (M.
Ifnard) who will not put their hands ti
.his inestimable work, as the main theore
tical pillar of the rights of man, ought to b(
t>ani(hedfrom amongst us : (quon devcil c/iajfe.
de la fociete' !)
Accounts from Nova Scotia fay, thai
" Gen. Arnold, unable any longer to den
the torrent of popular prejudice against hi:
c'nara&er, ha'; bid a lasting adieu to tha
province, having failed for Great-Britain
with an intention to pass the remainder o
his life in some retired (ituation, in tha
kingdom ; where money is not unfrequent
[y a fubftttute for all other merit."
In a late Virginia paper, appears an enu
lieratipn of the quantities of the fevera
kinds of produce (hipped from City Point
on James River, to different parts of Eu
ope, Africa, and the insular and continent
il Welt Indies, during October, Novem
ber and December 1791 ; the total value o.
which is itated at three hundred and five
thousand, seven hundred and lifteen dol
lars and ninety-nine cents,—the nett value
jf every species of merchandize entered in
to the district of City-Point for Bermuda
Hundred] during the fame period, is ftateel
it eight hundred and sony thousand, eight
lundred and thirteen dollars and twenty
three cents.
On the nth inltant, being the birth day
of the President of the United States,
L O. S.] the day was commemorated by
the Gentlemen of Richmond, with every
demonstration of joy suitable to the occali
on. The day was ufliered in with the dis
charge Ot cannon ; and at two o'clock, they
lat down to dinner, when a number of pa
triotic toalts were drank, attended, indi
vidually, by a discharge of cannon.—[The
toasts were as follows: George Wash
ington.—The United States —the govern
ment and commonwealth of Virginia—the
King of the French—the Legislature and
people of France—the King of Poland —
The Diet and people of Poland—may the
government of the United States obey, and
not pervert the principles of the conftitu
tion —James Madison, the congreflional
defender of the rights and happiness of the
>eople.—May that policy which would
with-hold from the public ear the debates
if either branch of the legislature, be ba
aifhed from America—The memory of
General Butler, and of those brave officers
and soldiers who fell on the 4th of Novem
ber. —May the next campaign give peace
to our country, and rertoration to the
American name—May science and freedom
s(tabli(h their dominion throughout the
world —the agriculture, commerce, and
nanufactures of the United States.—The
air daughters of Columbia. —] On the
Monday evening following there was ar
;legant ball, at which were a numerou:
ind brilliant aifemblage of Ladies and Gen
tlemen,
The fpirtt offpeculation, and the defiri
t>f amaflilig fortunes rapidly, without a
waiting the flow but (lire progress of indus
ry and frugality, is ever attended, in an;
late or country, with a multiplicity of evi
toi/equences. Among these, a tliirft so;
v.nk and diftinftion ii not the least, an<
nay justly be termed the child of speculation
insolence is almoit peculiar to sudden ac
juifition, and the man of exorbitant weahl
generally proportions his importance to th<
i/.e of his (trong box. Foreigners have ob
erved on this country, that the inhabitants
n respect to manners, are Only republicans ii
tame. Whether the observation be true oi
lot, the philosopher may frequently ob
erve, with regret, the profefl'ors of honed
ind ufeful occupations made the butt o]
•idicule to the imaginary Noble/fe of yejlerday
Extraß of a letter from Havre— Ncv. 99,
" I rejoice to tell you that the influence
as ci;ubs, in Paris, and elsewhere, begins tc
t>e 011 the decline. It had bee.n observed
for a long time, that instead of contributing
to the establishment of just and legal power,
their evident tendency was to erect that
worst of all governments, a democracy, ex
iting in fact, and amenable to no law what
ever. Mr. Robefpterre was one of the great
friends and patrons of these baneful affb
ciations, but all his influence and eloquence
could not prevent a decree of the assembly,
which has been published, to the following
effect: "No society, club, or association of
citizens (hall form thenifelves into a politi
cal body, or pretend to influence or i nfpeft
the proceedings of the legal eonflituting
bodies— neither (hall they, under any pre
tence whatever appear, under a collctlivc title,'
to petition, appoint deputations or assist at
public ceremonies.—lf they prefunie to in
terrupt either private citizens or the lawiul
magillrates in the execution of their duty,
the names of the persons presiding at the
time of rticll orders being given, (hail be
erased from the citizen lilt, and themselves
declared incapable of holding any public of
fice for the term of two years.— Upon peti
tioning or doing any other political ast in a
collective capacity, the persons then presi
ding, &c. are to be declared incapable of
being elected to any office of trust for fix
months—Such as are not actual citizens, and
shall be found guilty, as above, Ihatt pay
each a fine of i zco livres, if Frenchmen ; if
foreigners, 3000."
The celebrated Ruffian general Potemkin
having so long flourilhed on the political
and military stage of Europe, the follow
ing brief account of so renowned a cha
racter will not be displeasing to our read
ers :
" Prince Gregory Potemkin, a Tau
riqtic, was very remarkable for the numer
ous titles he bore : he was field marshal and
commander in chief of all the Ruffian ar
mies ; commander of the regular and light
cavalry of the fleets in the Black sea, in the
sea of Azof, and the Cafpianfea; senator
andprefident of the college of war; go
vernor general of Catharinoflaw, arid Tau
ria ; aid-de-camp general and chamberlain
to the Empress ; infpeftor general ofthe ar ■
my, colonel of the regiment of Preobraf
chenfki guards; chief of the corps of the
guards of cavaliers ; chief of the manufac
tories of arms and cannon of the Ruffian
empire ; grand hetman of the CofTacks,
those of Catharinoflaw and the Black sea ;
knight ofthe Ruffian orders of St. Andrew,
St. Alexander Newki, St. George, Wool -
doomir of the firft class, and of St. Ann ; of
the Prussian order of the Black Eag'le ; and
ofthe Polish order of the White Eagle, and
St. Stanisflaw ; of the Danish order of the
Elephant; and of the Swedifli order of Se
raphims. His career has been very glori
ous, 110 reverse of fortune or disgrace ever
tarnished it; but whatever enterprizes he
undertook were always Crowned with suc
cess. "
This great man died the beginning of Oc
tober last near J allay, on the Ruffian fron
tiers, of a pestilential camp fever, that has
raged in those parts. It is intimated in the
European papers, thathisdeath will have a
considerable effect upon the politics of that
quarter of the world, particularly in being
onecaufe of an alliance taking place be
tween the courts of Prussia and Ruffia—lt
may be proper to add, that Prince Potemkin
was one of the strongest men of his age, and
Of so athletic a make, that not one man in
ten thousand would have dared to meet him
ill manual conflict.
PRICE or STOCKS.
Six per cents, per £. - 24/1—24/5
' Three per cents, - - 3 4/3*
Deferred fix per cents, - icj
Final Settlements - lif*
Indents, -
Bank Stock 1 2 Shares 103 aovance*
Meteorological Observations.
Februarys 1792.
D. H Bar. Thcr. Wind. Weatk.
Monday, * 2Q . 7 29,67 18 W. Cloudy.
2 29.70 25 do. do*
Tutfday, 21. 7 29.75 lj N.W. fair.
" 19- 7 2.9 do. do.
Wcdncfday, 22. j 29. 9 21 N.W. Fa r.
a 29- 9-5 35 do. do.
ThurJday, 23. 7 30. 6 23 WW.Clmty.
" 3°- 5 35 do. do.
Friday, 24. 7 30. ,5 19 N.W. Fair.
f 2 9- 95 39 S.|W. do.
Saturday, a 5. 7 29. 8 30 S.W. Cloudy.'
2 29. 87 39 N.W. do.
Sunday, 26. 7 29. 88 32 n.e.
2 2 9- 75 37 do. do.
TWENTY DOLLARS REWARD. ~
PAN awa y in August 1790 from the fub
fenber, living in Queen Ann's coun
ty, eastern shore of Maryland, a country
born Negro woman, called GRACE. She
is about middle aged, very low of stature
round face, remarkable small feet, for a
negro, and has loft several ofher fore-teeth.
The lapse of time since she has abfeonded
renders it unnecefl'ary to deftribe her
cloathing. She is artfu! and talkative, and
I make no doubt has pafled for a free wo
man, and got into Pennsylvania or Dela
ware states. The above reward shall be
paid to any person securing fald negro, and
giving information thereof to her master
and reasonable charges if brought home. '
EDWARD Harris'
Feb. 23. B\v 1 aw.And It it further enabled, Ti.at the poftnr\af
ters to whom such letters may be delivered, shall
pay to the malter, commander, or other person
delivering the lame, except the commanders of
foreign packets, two cents for every such letter or
packet j and /hill obtain from the person deliver
ing the fame, a certificate fpecifying the number
of letters and packets, with the name of the fliip
or velfel, and the place from whence /he lad fail
ed; which certificate, together with a receipt for
the money, Ihall be with his half-yearly accounts,
transmitted to the Poitmatler-Genera I,' who (hall
credit the amount thereof to the poftmaflcr for
warding the fame.
And oe it further enabled. That if any person,
other than the Postmaster-General, or his depu
ties, or persons b/them employed, (hall take up,
receive, order, dispatch, convey, carry or deliver
any letter or letters, packet or packets, other than
newspapers, tor hire or reward, or (hall be con
cerned in setting up any foot or horse post, wag
gon or other carriage, by or in which any letter or
packet (hall be carried.for hire, on any eilablillied
poll road, or any packet, or other velfel or boat,
or any conveyance whatever, whereby the revenue
of the general poft-office may be injured, every
person, so offending, Ihall forfeit, for every such
otfence, the ("urn of two hundred dollars : !Jrovi
dld, That it (lull and may be lawful for every
person to find letters or packets by special mef
icnger.
And be it further e-iaftcd, That the deputy poft
ma-ler* or agents of the Postmaster-General, shall
duly account and answer to him, for all bye or way
letter;;, and shall fpecify the number and rates in
the put bill. And if any deputy paftmafter 01
/hall. neglect -so to account, he or they fc
offending, ill a 11, on convidlion thereof, forfeit, foi
, eynj such oftence, a sum not exceeding one hun
dred dollars.
And be it further cna£led y That if any person
employed ip any of the departments of the gener.
a) po.ft-office, faall unlawfully detain, delay, o;
open, any letter, packet, bag or mail of letters,
with which he shall be entrusted, or which fhal
have come to his pofieflion, and which are intend,
eds to be conveyed by post : Or if any fuc-h .person
fftall lecrete, embezzle or destroy any lecter oi
packet, eatrjjfted coirim, as aforefaid, and whielj
ihall pot contain any security for, or assurance rei
lating-to mosßey, as herein after described, ever)
such. offender, being thereof duly convicted, shall,
fjr every such olfencej be fined not exceeding
three hundred dollars,, or l-mprifojied not exceeding
fix months, or both, according to the circum
stances and aggravations of the offence. And ii
any perfon v employed as aforefaid, shall secrete,
' embezzle or destroy, any letter, packet, bag, or
mail of letters, with which he iTiall be entrusted.
or which ihall have come to his poffeflion, and
are intended to be conveyed by post, containing
any bank note, or bank post bill, bill of exchange,
warrant of the Tieafuxy of the United States
note of alignment of stock in the. funds, letter:
of attorney for rec-eiving annuities or dividends,
or for felling iicxck in the funds, or for : receiving
the interest thereof, or any letter of credit, or note
for, or relating to the payment of money, or other
bond or warrant, draft, bill, or promissory note
vyhatfoever,. for the payment of money j or if am
such r-rfon, employed as aforefaid, ihall steal 01
tike any of the lame out of any lett.er, packet;
bag or mail of letters, that shall come to his pof
fefoon, he shall, on conviction, for any such of
fence, fuffcr death. And if any person, who shall
have taken charge of the mail of the United States,
iliall <ju;t or tlefert the fame, before his arrival ai
the next every fuel) person, Co offend
ing, shall forfei.t and pay a sum, not exceeding five
hundred dollars, for every such offence. And i;
any person, concerned in carrying the mail of the
United States, shall colieft, receive or carry anj
Jetter or. packet, or iliall cause or procure th<
fame to be done, contrary t,o this a£l, every fuel:
offender shall forfeit and pay, for every such of
fence, a sum not exceeding fifty dollars.
And be it further enatlvd, That if any perfor
or persons shall rob any •carrier of the mail of th<
Ulifted States, of-fuchmail, or if any person fhal
rob the mail* in which letters are sent to be con
veyed by post, of any letter or packet, or fhal
steal such mail, or shall steal and take from or ou
of the fame, or from or oiit as any poft-ofiice, ani
letter or packet, f-uch offender, or offenders shall
on convidipn tiiere.of, fufferdeafh.
And be it further enaEied, That the Deputy.
Poftjpafter.s Ihall, refpe£ljvely, publish at the ex
piratjqn of every three months, in onepf the newl'-
papers published at, or nearest the place of his re
iidence, for three fucceflive Weeks, a lift of all th<
letters then remaining in their refpedlive offices :
and at the of the next three months
ihall (end such of the said letters as then remain
on asde.ad letters, to the generalpoftoffice
where the fame shall be opened and infpedtedj
and if any valuable papers or matter of confe
qunce, shall be found, therein, it shall be the dHy
of the.postmaster-general, to cause a descriptive
lift thereof-to be infarted in one of the newspa
pers, published at the place mod convenient tc
where the owner may be supposed to refidc, i
within the United States, and such letter and the
contents shall.be prelVrveJ, to be delivered to the
periods, to whpm the fame shall be addieffed, upor
payment of ihe poih:ge, and the expense of pub
iication.
And he i( further cr.aFl d, That the following
i'tt&er-s and packets, and no Qther, fliall be receiv
ed and conveyed by post, free of po iage, under fuel
as are heiv in after p ovi ed j that is tc
fay, i all letters andpackets ro or from the Prefideni
or Vice-Pref]d-nt qf the United States, ana al
letters and not exceeding two ounces ir
weight, ta or frpm any member of the Senate 01
House of Repre/entatives, the Secretary of the
Senate or Clerk of the Heme of Reprcf&ntatives.
during their a<fluil attendance in any session <>l
CongreXi, and twenty days after ftich session. All
letters t.o and from the Secretary of the Treasury,
his a-i3ii>»-nt, ComprroDer, and Au
ditor of, the Treasury, the Treasurer, the Secreta
r> of State, the Secretary at War, the Commif
lijners for, fettling the accounts between the.Uni
ted States and individual States, thr. Poftmalter
General and his Aißftant: Provided, That no per
son fliall frank or enclose any letter or packer,
Other than h's ownj but any public ktter or
packet from li.e depaitment of tht Treasury mij
be franked by the Secretary <f th Treat ur>,
the a(ftftant Secretary, or by the Comptroller, R.e
gifter, Auditor or Trealurer j And that each per
(on before named (hall deliver to the Poft<Aficq
every letter or packct entlofed to him, which m iy
be d.rented to any ether p?rfon, noting the place,
from whence it came bv poll, and the ul ual
Jhall be charged thereon.
And oe it jurtker er.acled. That if any person
(hall counterfeit the hand-writing of any othe*
person, in order to evade the payment of portage,
such perl'on or persons, so oilending, and being
thereof duly convidied, (hall foifutand pay, toi
every such offence, the lum ut one hundred del
lars.
And be it further That every prinfer oi
newspapers may fend one paper to each and ev-ry
other printer of newspapers within the L r.'vv
States, tiee of poflage, under fuel) regulations v
the port-master general fliall provide.
And be it further That all newspaper
eorrt'eyed :n the mail, fliall be under a cover open
at one end, carried in separate ba?s from the let
ters, and charged with the payment of one cent
fur any dirtancenot more than one hundred miles,
and one cent and a halt for any greater dirtanee ;
And it (hall be the duty of the p )ft-marter-gene
ral and his deputy, to keep a separate account
tor the newspapers, and the deputy
shall receive fifty per cent on the portage ot al
newlpapers : Arid it any other matter or tiling be
enc-lofe.d in such pap.ers, ti;e whole packet (hal
be charged, agreeably to the rates eittfbliihed b\
•his act, .for letters or packet?. And if any ol
tile perlons employed in any department of tin
port-office,* (hall unlawfully v;etain, delay, em
bezzle or deflroy any with which h<
ihriil be entrurted, such oCende: for eve.y fuc!
offenco, (hall forfeit a sum not exceeding fifti
dollars :■ Provided, that the port-marter-genera)
in any.contract, he may enter into\ for the con
tfevarice of the mail, may authorize the person
with whom such contract is made, t& carry news
■pers, other than those conveyed in the /naif.
And be it further enatftd, That tM ptrfr-maC
ter-general be, and he is hereby authori'ett to al
low to the deputy port-marter*, refpe&i>ely, fuel
commission on the monies arilrng from the port
age of letters and packets, as he IhaVj thin I
adequate to their tefpeftire fervi-ces : J»tWW
That the laid commiflion fliall not ixcett
forty per cent to any deputy, whole coiipen
fatiun there-by fliall not exceed fifty dollars, rOl
thirty per cent to any deputy, whole compenfa
tion thereby (halFnot exceed'one hundred dcliais
nor twenty per cent to any other deputy, excels
the post-master at the port where the Europeat
packets d », or fliall lleadily airive j to whom fuel
farther allowance, in addition to the emolument:
of his office, fhalJ be made, as the
general (hall deem a reasonable compenfatiofi so»
his extra-services in the receipt and dispatch o
letters, originally received into his office, frocj
i>n board such packets, and by him forwarded t<
other offices : And provided also, That the com
penfations aforej aid (halt not exceed eighteen hun
dred dollars per annum to any one poft-jnJK
tor all services by him rendered.
And be it further cnaEled, That if any deput'
port-marter, or other person authorised to receivi
the portage of letters and packets, fliall negledi
srrefufe to render his accounts, and pay over t<
.he post-master-genera), the balance by him due
»t the end of every three month?, it fliall be th<
Juty of the poft-marter -geneial, to cause a fui
to be commenced against the person or persons f<
rcegledt.ing or refufing : And if the post-master.
teneral (hall not cause such suit to be commences
within three months, from the end of' every fuel:
hree months, the balances due from every fuel:
lelinquent fliall be charged to, and recoverable
rom the poft-mafter-^eneral.
And be it further er.acled, That all pecuniar}
penalties and forfeitures, incurred under this adt.
hall be, one-half for tht use of the person or per
ons informing and profe<"uting for the fame, the
Sther half to the use of the United States.
And be it further enacled t That it fliall be law.
"ul for the poft-mafter-genvral, to make provi
ion, where it may be neceflary, for the receipt 01
ill letters and packets intended to be conveyed bj
iny (hip or vessel, beyond i'ea, or from any pori
»f the United States to another port therein ;
ind the letters so received /hall be formed intc
i mail, sealed up, and dire&edto the poft-maftei
>f the port to which such /hip or vefl'el fliall bt
>ound. And for every letter or packet so receiv
d, there fliall be paid, at the time of its recep
ion, a portage of one cent. And the poft-maf
er general may make arrangements with the
;oft-mafters in,any foreign country for the reci
irocal receipt and delivery of letters and packetSj
hrough the poft-offices.
And be it further enafod, That *the deput)
ioft-mafters, and the persons employed in the
ranfportation of the mail, fliall be exempt fr.on;
nilitia duties, or any fine or penalty fvr negled
hereof.
Ar.d be it further enaHed, That all the fvrplus
evenue of the general port-office, which £ialj
lave accrued previous to the firrt day of -June
lext, not heretofore appropriated, be, and the
ame is hereby appropriated towards defraying aH
deficiency which may arise in tlie revenue of the
aid department for the year next enduing.
jflrul be it further entitled* That the ast pafied
it the la ft session of. Congress, intituled, " An
ocontinue in force, for a limited time, an adt
ntituled, " An adt for the temporary ertablifh
nen; of. the port-office," be., and the fame is
lereby continued in full force, until the firft day
f June next, and no longer.
And be it further enaEled, That this adl (hall
>£ in force for the term of two years, from the
aid firft day of June next, and no longer.
Jonathan Trumbui.i,, Speaker of the
Ho use of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United States, and Frejident
of the Senate.
Approved, February twentieth, 1792.
G. W AsiiiNGTON, Prefdent of the
United States.
On TRAVELLING PLANTS.
[TranJJated from tie Frit: b. J
BESIDLS thole plants that are itatlonnry,
fhere are manifeftlv others, whlfch frequently
their places of abode, and even employ
tbemielvea in going round the globe. I do nor
i:«4ny, however, that the greater part of these tra
veling plants had originally some center of nat£4
pitj, a steep rock, or an island embosomed in the
occin., from whence they might have been propa
gate* into differen. parts of the world. This, by
the is, with me, a great proof that our
dobe\s but of a recent origin ; fir.ce, if it was
very ancient, all the combinations of plants that
can evet happen, woaid have been long ago com
pleted in every part of the earth. Thus, for in
llance, there would not have been an island dif.
covered iri the East or Weft-Indies but would
nave been jvUnted with cocoa nut trees, carried
.hither by the various currents of the ocean. T he
native place of this ipecies of tree seems to hav<
been the Maldivia islands, from whence they havt
not yet spread into all theislandvof the Indian ocean
I he philosopher, Francis Leguat, and his unforn
n«te companions, who w»re shipwrecked in 1690,
an<J were the firfl human inhabitants oftheJittß
ill and Rodrigo, one hundred leagues to the east
ward 0/ the IHe of France, found there no cocog
nut trees. During the time, however, that the)
refiJed on this solitary and secluded spot, the
currents dtjfted on shore, At different times, «
number of c&coa nuts, already sprouting j as i;
Providence wiihed to incline them to remain ir
the island, and cultivate the foil, by this ufefu
and agreeable prclent. Francis Leguat was en
tirely at a loss to know from whence these nuts
weighing five or fix pounds each, could pofiiblj
have come j at last, however, he concluded the]
mull have been brought by ;he currents frorr
the island of St. Brande, about, eighty league;
norr.i-eaft of Rodrigo.—So that u appears thai
these two iHands, from the beginning, of the
world, had never before communicated all thei:
vegetable produ&ions to each other, altho' litu
ateu diredely in the midfl of an immense current
which, according to the season of the year, set
fix months in an eastern, and fix months in 1
Weft era di re&ion.
M. Leguat and his companions took care t(
plant these cocoa nuts, which in about a veaf am
an half grew upwards of four feet in height. Sucj
an immediate present from heaven, however
could not prevail upon them to remain in thi
charming island. Notwithstanding the remon
lhances of M. Leguat, his companions, not con
tented to live without the society of women, buil
themlelves 2 boat and took their departure fron
this peacefal abode—misfortunes and difaflefsJir
abundance, were the consequence, and fcarceli
any ot them lurvived to reach the continent o'
Africa. As for myfelf (fays M. Leguat, in hi:
account of their I have no doubt, bui
that if we had reposed the necefl'ary confidence ir
a wife and over-ruling Providence, it would b)
some means or other have sent us women into the
island, as it had before sent us cocoa nuts !
ROBERT SMOCK,
Woollen Draper £3" Mercer,
Hasjufi received by lie flup. I'igou, from Louder,
and for Jule at bis Store, oil the nortb eajl corner
of Market and Third Jirccts, Pbiadepti.i,
AN ELEGANT ASSORTMENT OF
SUPERHNE and lu.per broadcloths, inalmoO
every colour.
Ladies fuperfine habit cloths,in the moll fashion
able colours.
Superfine caflimers, do.
Do. and super eiaflic striped cloths.
Milled drabs and hunters"cloths.
A variety of" fancy wailtcoating, in silk, silk and
cotton, (ilk molcikil), caflimers printed and
tamboured, and (uperiine striped Spanilh tojji
nets.
Mens black fattins, florentines, and fiik prunellas
of luperior qualites
Silk, fiik and cotton, cotlon and worfled hose.
a (Tor ted.
Sattins andmantuas, abear'ifu! variety.
Superfine rattinets, w.ith a large collection of befl
trimmings for cloths, See. of every quality.
Moreens, joans (pinning* durants and caliman
coes.
Hairbines and camblets, &c.
9-8 wide fuperfine Marleilles quilting with bor
ders.
Marfeiljcs bedquilts and cotton counterpanes, 0-4
to 12-4.
Flanders bedbunts and bedtickings.
A beautiful variety of chintzes and cottons.
An elegant afTortment of yard wide furniture
chintzes, in beautiful Colours and patterns,
with a large variety of furiiiture cottons.
Velveteens, velvets, corduroy:, thicksets, fancv
cords, stockinets, royalribs, fattinets, hair
plushes, &c. &c.
sti i ced and grey, twilled and plain Bath coatings.
f\ofe blankets aftnrted.
ROBERT SJVIOCtC has also for Sa'e, a great
Variety ot GOODS of the best quality in the.»
t-veral kinds. He presumes it is unnecefl'ary to
particular in. the enumeration, and that
t is fufficient to fay the afTortment is very gene
al and extensive, consisting of atmcrft every arti
-le in his line t»f bufuisfs.—Being desirous of giv
ng entire fatisfa&ion tothofe who may be pleased
:o favour him with their curtain, as well
IS cf meriting a continuance of" those cuf
iomers, whose favours he has hitherto exj»erien
:ed, he flatters himfelf the thcapncj\ of his Goods
arill be the best means of etf'edtmg his wiflics.
H O W E L L's
SMALL MAP of PENNSYLVANIA,
May be had of Mr. Bailey, and Mr. Crukjhank
Printers, in Market Greet'; or of the author in
M. Fifth-flrcet, No. 88, who lias the said maps
lafled on canvass, cut, folded andcaled foi pock
;t carriage.
Philadelphia Jan. 30. '792-
PROPOSAL S,
For puUiJhing by Sttbftriptwn,
A Compendious SYSTEM'of the
New and Old Husbandry ;
With fivcrcd Experiments made in bo h Syf cm;
CONTAINING,
THE Mechanical, Chymical, and phi-lofophi
cal, fclements of Agriculture; in which the
different foils and manures are analyzed ; proving
v.hich manure is mod fuitabie for each foil, and
the jftMis and grasses adapted to the differ
ent 1*0)1$ and climates of America—directions for
lading out and managing the farm yard; whereby
great cjuantities of manures and compolls may be
made; and to make some new, .cheap and effec
tual manures—several experiments made by the
author on grain of different forts, and directions
to make fertilizing steeps, which will double the
crops, kill animalcule, and prevent blights
and imut—Proper methods of plowing and melio
rating the diiierent foils lit to receive the grain—
The imperfections of the present mode of cultiva
tion in this coup.try, clearly pointed out; with a
new mode of culture, founded on obfervationj. and
-y rience: wherein is proved, bv proper ma
nagement, changing the crops, and letting grain
and grades come in rotation, the poorest land may
be enriched and made to produce as much as new
land—l he nature and properties of foreign graff
rs and pulle, such as Lucern, Saintfcin, Burnets,
Trefoil, Ryegrafs, Horfe-beani, Peas, Tare:,
Vetches; &c. with their benefit and advantage:.
A companion of different methods of farming in
the different counties of England—The method of
feeding and fattening sheep on turnips, wiih di
re&ions for making and placing the hurdles for
iennitf& of them, and the benefit received by their
dung ; with the be ft method of railing the turnip,
and an efte&ual receipt for preventing the ravages
f fiy—An account of the culture and ufc ©/
he Mangel-wurzel, or root of fca:rcity, known in
France under the name of Racine-de-Difette,
*'ith experiments made by the Abbe ae Cornme
■ell, Dr. John Coakley Lettfom, and the author,
"ccommended for feeding and fattening of cattle,
and for culinary ufes~The ufefulnefs, culture
ind method of' railing, drying, and the virtues of
hops—Directions for sowing, transplanting and
managing of flowers, herbs, and vegetables, in chz
garden ; with grafting, bunding or inoculating all
lorts of fruit trees; and a new method of plant
ing and improving trees in the field. To biew
beer, and to make cyder keep and be much strong
er than tne common method—A description of a
Jnll machine (which any ingenious carpenter may
make) for planting all forts of grain, pulse, grass
feeds, See. in equal distant rows, and a running
:ioe, which will do double the work of a common
ane Directions for making and placing of hedges,
in excellent and cheap method of fencing—The
management and fattening of cows, sheep and
logs, suckling ar>d weaning of calves and
kith directions and remedies" to cure the several
iifeafes cattle are fubjedl to, and t#» prevent and
:ure the rot in sheep ; with otheT ufeful and in
erefting fubjedts.
By JOHN SPURRIER,
An did experienced and expeiimental farmer, late
>f the county of Herts, in Great-Britain, and now
it the QjJeen of France tavern,, between Chester
ind Wilmington, on Brandy wine Hundred, coun
y of Newcastle, and state of Delaware.
I his Work to be handsomely printed in o£tavo>
on a good type and paper ; to contain 300 pa
ges ; sewed".
The pr-ce to lubferibers One Dollar, to non-sub
scribers One Dollar and a (Quarter ; to be paid
for on delivery.
■ s work fliall be published as soon as 500 have
fubferibed.
Subscribers names shall be prefixed to the work.
Rooks* for the purpose of fubferibers entering
:heir names, will be left at the Merchant's Col
fee-houfe in lecond street; at Mr. Pelpfi's, corner
>f Market and 'Water-Greets ; at Mr. Inlkeep's
ftage-officfe, comer of Arch and Second-ftre'ejs ;
Mr. Gruklhank, No. 91, Market-street; Mr.
Young, No. 52, South Second street, and Mr.
Dobfoii, No. 41. South Second street, and at the
different bookfeilers.
Any gentle men, living at a distanCe, who may
be inclined to patron;::? tl»;i publicstion 3 are re
qoefted to forward their names to any of the »a
bove places.
TEN POUNDS REWARD.
RAN away, a Negro lad about feventeeu.
years old, who left the fubferiber
fomethne in Aug.ufl last. He goes by the
name of Leven' ; is of a yellowi/h colour,
and about five feet high. He is fuppoftd
to have gone to the Delaware state. Any
person bringing the said negro to die sub
scriber, lhall be to the above re
ward ; and any person giving such infor
mation as will enable the owner to reco
ver him again, fhajl be entitled to one half
the above sum, which will be paid by
Thomas Miles.
Feb, 14, 179- ■ St. i aw.
This Day arc pitblijhed,
SERMONS,
Historical and Chara&eriftical :
By WILLIAM LINN, D. D.
One «/' the Minijlers of the Reformed Prctejlant
Dutch Church, in the city of New-York.
Sold by T. DOBSON, R. CAMPBELL; &
M. CAREY.
[Pricc Three Quarters of a Dollar.]
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND S W A I N E,
AT THIIR SFriCE, NO. 239, HIGH-STREETj
NEAR SIXTH-STREETj
PHILADELPHIA.