Vol. I.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
PARIS.
Particular detailof the irruption into the 7'hutl
Lries by the Paris mob, on IVedne/day the
I iM. July.
THE King agreed, conformably to
the-conftitution to receive a dcpu
tation o£ 20 persons, and pointed out him
felf the manner in whith they fliould b
introduced. They were to pais through
thc gate of the Feuillans, and go out ci
the gate du Menage.
These orders of the king were Cent tc
the commander in chief, who opposed to
them'lie orders received from the muni
cipality, enjoining him to leceive, untie,
the standard of the national guards, peo
ple of all denominations, dressed in all
kinds of unifotms, and provided with any
kind of arms.
The piktmen in their ma-cn had taken
the declaration of rights, which was car
ried before them. The colours of the Ba
ftile, and the men of the 14th of July ap
peared among them. For a banner they
had an old pair of breeches, from the mob
perhaps being called here, ' Sans Culot
tes "
By three o'clock they had defiled
through the hall of the afiemb'y, in the
rear of the palace, through the garden, the
guard haring refuted to oppose them, and
round by the Quay to the place de Caro
fl, in front of the Chateau. Here t> ey
were joined by eight pieces of cannon, and
two caifTons of ammunition. Afler half
au hour spent in pkrlyingj the entran.e
being refufed them, they proceeded to
force" The commandant of the guard re
quired authority from the mayor and mu
nicipality to repel them, but was rcfufed.
The matches were lighted, and every
thing seemed to pre'ude a formal battle,
when the officer returned to announce his
having received no orders. Ihe gates
wert- instantly forced, no rcfillanc-e being
made and the people in thousands prec:-
pitated themselves into the palace : tht
doors at the entrance of the king and
queen's apartment* being closed without
waiting to hare them opened, they (hal
tered them to pieces.
The queen retired to a second apart
ment with the dauphin in her arms, ant:
threw herfelfupon the protection of a re
serve of grenadiers of the national guard,
H ere a third door was broke open. Tie
crowd became, so great, that with difficulty
the queen found a corner of the window tc
tfcape from the great press. Here, expo
sed to all the gross and vile language that
i pagination can conceive, {he was obi ged
to remain for fcveral hours, during w ,ich
they prcfented her and the dauphin with a
national cockadt, which ihc immediately
wore.
Duving this scene, another of a differ
ent nature went forward in the king's
apartment : one of the chiefs of th s mob
presented the king a red bonnet, adoined
with national cockades, and demanded the
retraflion of the Veto which th king had
placed 011 the decree agaii.ft the priests,
arid for the ellablifhment of a camp His
answer was noble and manly ; "If the wel
fare of .he nation consists in wearing a red
cap, I have no objection to wearing it.
Pureinconfcier.ce, I have ro diead ; as
to the decrees, this is no time to speak ol
them I"—Some ( ne having remarked that
he was afraid, hefeized the hand of a gre
nadier near him, and clapping it upon his
heart, he said, "Tell me, my friends, does
my heart beat like a man in fear ?" He
immediately ftsted himfelf between the
windows of his apartment, that looked to
wards the Thuilleries, and put on a red
cap. One of the mi.b offered him a glass
to drink to the health of the nation; he
accepted it, and drank it without seeming
to have the smallest apprehenfmn.
The crowd began to preis upon h;m
A national guard was nearly forced
By P. FREN EA U : Publijlied. Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
WEDNESDAY, September 12, 1792.
out of his place, near his majesty. "The
King," crias this brave fellow, " is our
fafi guard, I would not d fert him, for a
hundred thousand crowns !" A munici
pal officer attempted to fpetk, but could
not be heard. Several members made the
fame attempt without luccefs-
M. Santerre then tried what he could
do ! a roar ensued, of "Long live PethiotiL'
Long lire the good,the worthy Pethion !"
The good, the worthy Pethion then addres
sed the king. T>e people (fsys he.)" have
appeared with dignity, and with dignity
t!i»y will depart. Your maj fly may
make your'elf easy," Santerre ordered
the eputation to cQme forward.
The fpokefinan accordingly demanded
that the patriotic ministers be re-inflated
—that the Veto be retra&ed relative to
the two obnoxious decrees.
The King answered :
•'I have sworn to maintain the conftittiti
an A: I will defend it at the risk ot my life "
Clamours were renewed of "Long live
the nation ! Long live Sans Culottes !
Long live liberty ! No Veto 1
The eyes of the leaders of the mo 1 ?, and
jf many of the mob themselves, gliltened
with rage. "Long live Santerie*!"A
grenadier at'empted to quiet them, the
cinjr told him, "Let them alone, my
riend ; let their words be ever so injuri
ous, it is all the fame to me."
By t'. is time feveial deputies, alarmed
it the state of the royal family, had aflcm
iled, and a deputation of 24 members was
lamed to surround the person of the king,
ind to be replaced eveiy half hour b, a
Yefh deputation, so as to inform the as-
Vmbly of the ilate of his majesty. M Pe
hion arrived about the fame time with tin
ieputation. The people flill Continued
heir clamouvs, for the reft'ration of the
ate miuiftry and the fan&ion of the
iecrees ; but in vain ; the king retained
he fame manly firmnefs & conversed with
he deputation without tile imailed appear
ince of inquietude. By persuasions and
ntreaties, the mayor and four of the depu
tes prevailed upon the people to withdraw.
They had pafT.'d all ovjr the palace, the
•oofs were covered wicii the multitude,
:'ney hung in .cinders to the windows;
ind except the breaking of some doors
ind windows, no other mifchief was done,
10 accident even ensued.
Towards night-fall the Palace was en
:ively cleared, the deputies had previous
y profited of an interval in the affluence of
he crowd, and conducted the king to h s
sed chamber. Towards ten o'clock all
.vas quiet; the citizens a"l retired peaca
aly to their respective homes and the night
ivas pafled in the utmoll tranquility.
*M. Santerre is a brewer.
Letter from M. J.a Fayette to the hi;. da
ted June J6. Paris.
"SIRE
" I have the hor.or to fend yotir rnaief
ty the copy of a letter to the national af
["rnbly, in which your mcjefty will find
the exprtffion of len'.iments that have ani
mated my whole life. The king knows
with what ardour, with what conftanoy,
I have been at all t'rnes devoted to Ihe
sacred principles of humanity, equality,
andjuflice. He knows that I wa3 always
the adversary of Factions, the enemy of
licentiousness, and that 110 power, which I
thought unlawful, was ever acknowledged
by me. He knows my devotion to his
constitutional authority, and my attach
ment to his person Such Sire, aie the
balls of my letter to the national affcm
bly ; such will be of my conduit to
wards my country and your maj dy, amid
the llorms which so many combinations,
hoitila or factious, drive to draw upon us,
"It belongs not to me, Sire, to gve
to my opin 011s or my mcafure3 a higher
degree of importance, than the tmcor.necl
ed acts ofa iimple citizen ought to poflefs;
but the expression of my thoughts W..8
always a right, and cn this occ fion be
comes a duty ; and although I might have
p
ulfilled this dutv sooner, if, indcad of be
i tg to 'ie heard from the midst of a camp,
my voice had hern to ifTue from the re
treat from which 1 was drawn by the dan
gers of my com try, I do not think that
any public function, any personal confider
at on, eleafes me from exercising this du
ty of a -citizen, this right of a freeman.
"Pe Sit, Sire, ilrong in the authority
which • nation 1 will has dele sited to
you, inVhc generous re oliliion of defend
ing,the principles of theconllitution agai#ft
n!i thi r enemies. Let this refoiution,
l.ippor. .d by all the ads of your private
iire,,asbya lir.n and full esercile of the
royal p >. er, become the gage of harmo
ny ii'/oveall in the moments of
crisis cinnot tail to be ellabliftied between
t e Rt~ rcfentatives elected by the people
and their. hereditary 1 eprefentative. It
is in tli i refoiution, Sire, that for your
co.int-y and yourfiif are glory and fafety.
l'here you will find the fritnds of lilierty,
s-1 goo '-Frenchmen, ranged around your
throne, o defend it again!! the machinati
ons of lie rebellions, and the enterprizes
if the ft ous. And I, Sire, who, in
heir h .norahle hatied, have found the re
:ompei,ce of my persevering oppofiti in—
[ will ways merit it by mv zeal to serve
he c.'iiileto which my whole life is devot
d, ar)-> by my fideliiy to the oath which I
lave taken to the nation, the law, and the
iing.
'•Such, Sire, are my unalterable fenti-
Tient3 to which I subjoin the duty ol
iomag-~ and thai of my rrfpeft.
(Signed) "LAFAYETTE."
Julj 3 —The plan of the operations ol
he is now entirely changed. The
."rencij army have abandoned all their ac
•'lifl!in r.od -returned to 'I: --;
iwn teriitory. Henceforth they mean to
:onfi.ie themfclves entirely to the defend £
ind not make i.ny attempt to carry their
'orce againlt the enemy. Need wc seek
he reaf not this change of meafurcs :
t i easily found in the late diftradtions
if ihe internal government Each part
if the executive power has become tired
jf us office, aed dcfirous to fliift refpoiili
jiiity f/om itfelf. Already the tr.iniflers
lad exptefT'd their desire to get rid of all
efponfibility and leave to the generals the
vhole conduct of the war. Luckncr has
low declared, that unlrfs the ministers
joint out to him the plan of operations
,vhieh he is to follow, he mufl be under
he necessity of tefigiiinghis command —
[n fact a general dcfpondcncy seems to
lave seized all who are placed in public
ituations. From the temper of the times
md the ptevalence of the violent party,
:hey are reduced to that word of all def
p.tir — the drfpair of being ufeful. The
;ondu£t lately obCervea to M. la Fayette
ias not a utile contributed to produce this
ler.fat'On. lie has not only been the ob
ject of the moil unqualified abuse in pri
vate conversation; ar.d at the meetings of
the clubs, but has been denounced to the
aflembly in the speeches as members, and
in petitions prelented againfl hint ; and
yet who could have forfeeen that this La
Fayette, to whose aifivity and ze~l the re
volution is so indebted, should have be
come the objedl of popular odium and ac
cusation, and at tlic moment too when lie
was engaged at the head of his army, in
dcfence of that constitution which he had
so greatly contiibuted to establish.
The retreat of the army in the piefent
instance to the French territory, was per
haps no more than what prudence ?nd po
licy requi'cd. They had been far from
meeting from the inhabitants of Flanders
with the reception which they expe&ed ;
those in genera', to nfe the expreflion of
Luckner, shewed themselves in different, if
not hostile to their cause. Beiides, there
was danger that had they remained longer
or advanced f, ither into the country, they
might have been lurrounded by the forces
of the enemy, and tints cut cfF from the
pofiibility oft e; rest.
Numb. ()r<
The Ar.(lrian and Prufiian armies are
ntnv advancing in full force, and it haa
become necessary for the troops of La Fay
ette and Luckner, who haJ jo'iued in or
der to act in concert and with more effeift,
to separate and return to the flation*
which they formerly occupied, that they
may cover the whole of the frontiers, and
leavejno openiag to the enemy. It is
probable therefore, that tile hiilory of the
campaign may now take a different turn
from that detail of petty Ikinnilhes with
which it has hitherto been occupied. The
plan of the additional forces proposed to
fubflitute the twenty-thousand men, which
•he affcrnbly had decreed to convene at
Paris, is not yet fetiled,
The plan of the war is totally changed.
\s soon as the new ministers were fairly
eated, they adopted the only plan that
:ould be with wifd -m adopted, an-i that
)ught to have been originally so—the
alan of a defenfive war. It was not the
iufinefs of France to go into F1 mJcrs, and
:o excite infurreftion. It was calculated
.0 make ihe Engiith and Dutch gov eru
ments their enemies, who could not fee
•with indifference an attempt to deflray the
earner between France and Holland.
France also is to be affailcd on the fide
>f Alsace and Lnrtaine, by which avenue
lie is etfily acceffibte. In Flanders (lie is
trongly fortified, and so secured against
nvafion that she has little, to dread; but
rom the Rhine the country is onen, and
in army might march td P ris vr th I'ttle
nterruplion. Ninety thousand veteran
:roops, Auftrians and" Prussians,- wll be
eady to invade France fr .m this fide in a
Fortnight or three waeks. It wa3
therefore, to oppose to this formidable
alLllicJfaa;vi:th rtf the
The plan is, that one of the two armies
:n the North shall march to the Rhine,
indthat marflial Luckner (hall re' time his
tommand. He has retired from Auftri
in Flander* with all his force, in confe
rence of this arrangement. M de Bj
lernois is arrived at Paris, to c >ncert mea
"ures with the war minister, ?nd we expect
M. Luckner himfelf to take this route in
cuffing to the army on the Rhine.
The Jacobins are exerting eveny r.erve
:o recover their power by inflaming the
jopulace, but we nave no doubt govern'-"
nent will now go on with order and firm
lefs.
There is nn event in agitation at pre
sent, which appears to engage the atten
tion cf every society and qonverfation.—.
Some Englifiimen, ilrenuous in the cause
>f liberty and the French, have formed ail
itfTb iation, to affifL the army in person, on
ihe frontiers. They are to be a detach
ed body and have a commander of their
awn, who n to be elc&ed from the party
;>y vote. The promoters of this enter
prise are Mr. Newton, and Mr. Bailey- of
Cambridge. The former fcrved in the lift
Ruffian war, under prince Potemkin.
In order finally to complete tin's under
aking, there is to be a meeting held on
Fuefday next, at which, it is fnppofed,
fr v. ral other Englishmen, at pref nt rclid
ng here, will attend. When a fufficient
party is formed, they intend presenting
tliemfelves to the national assembly, to re
fuel! their fanttion in the undertaking.
A petition is to be framed, and presented
y a mod popular patriot. If they si c
ceed in their wishes, they intend cloathing
tliemfelves in the national uniform, ac
coutred only with a fufil. They are to
continue here to afitft at the ceremony of
the federation, ar.d the next day to march
to the frontiers.
George Town, ]unt 2, 1793.
A NUMBER of LOTS in every iituaiion
which may be desired in the ciry or WaJh
i-ifton, will be ofi'eied fjr Talc, by tl. ■ C. mmif
iiuners 011 Monday the Sth day ot' October next,
Oiie i.Mtr". 11 p..it of the puichafe money to be
paid down, tile refidne in three equal annua! pay
ment*, with jcii ily iutei e'l on tii: \yliole princi
pal unpaid. JoHN M. GANTT,
July 25. Glciii co the (Joaiiuillwuersi.For the National Gazette.
MUCH declamation h?.s been indul
ged against certain characters, who
arc charged with advocating the pernicious
d- ' line, that "public debts are public
bjeffings," and with being friends to a per
petual on of tlv public debt of the coun
try Among these characters, it ihe se
cretary of the treasury lias not been na
me ', he has been pretty plainly alluded to.
It is proper to examine what foundation
there is for those charges.
That officer, it is very certain, explicitly
maintained, that the funding of the exist
ing debt of the United States would ren
der it a national blefiing: And a man has
only to travel through the United States
with his eyes open, and to obfeivethe in
vigoration of inditfiry in every branch, to
be convinced that the pofiiion was well
founded. But whether righturwrong.it
is quite a d fferent thing from maintaining,
as a general proposition, that a public debt
is a public blelfing : particular and tem
porary circumstances might render that
advantageous at one time, which at ano
ther might be hurtful.
It is known, that prior to the revolu
tion, a great part of the circulation of the
country was carried on by paper money ;
that in confcquence of the events of the re
rolution that resource was in a great mea
fute destroyed, by being discredited, and
that the fame events had destroyed a large
proportion of the monied and mercantile
capital of the country, and of personal
property generally. It was natural tu
think, that the ciiafm created by these
circumstances required to be supplied, and
a just theory was fufficient to demonflrate,
that a funded debt would answer the
end.
To infer, that it would have fucli an cf
fe£t, was no more to maintain the genera
doctrine of " public debts being public
bleflings," than the faying, that paper e
millions by the authority of government,
were ufeful in the early periods of the
country, was the maintaining, that the)
would be ufeful in all the future stages ol
its progress.
But to put the matter out of all doubt
aud to (hew how destitute of candor the in
sinuations against the fi-cretary of the trea
fury, on this head, have been, I have ex
tracted and (ball iiifert here some paflagei
from three of his reports to the house ol
representatives ; by which it will be seen,
that his conduCt, as well as his language,
have been in uniform opposition to the
doCtrine cha-ged iipon him. The lengtl
of these repofts, it is probable, have pre
vented many well disposed persons frorr
being acquainted with their content#; the
preemption of which emboldens the ca
lumniators of public charadters and mea
fnres to make assertions, of the falfliood ol
whic'>, the mere perusal of official docti
nients would coriviCt them.
ExtraCt from a report of the secretary
of the treasury, on the subjeCt of a provi
sion for the public debt, presented the 14th
of January, 1790.
" Persuaded as the secretary is, that the
proper funding of the present debt, will ren
der it a national blefling ; yet he is so fai
from acceding to the position, in the lati
tude in which it is foinetimes laid down,
tlia- "public debts are public benefits," a
position inviting to prodigality, and liable tc
dangerous abuse, — that he ardently wishes
to fee it incorporated, as a fundamental max
im in the fyflem of public credit of the Uni
ted States. that the creition of debtJhouL
always be accompanied with the means of ex
tinguishment. This he regards as the trui
secret for rendering public credit immortal,
And he pre fumes, that it is difficult tc
conceive a situation, in which there may
not be an adherence to the maxim. At
least he feels an unfeigned jtlidtude, that
this may be attempted by theUnitedStates,
and that they may commence their mea
fures for the tftablifhment of credit with
the observance of it."
Extract from a report of the secretary
of the treasury on manufactures, prefentec!
the yth of Decembei, 1791.
After uiing several arguments to illuf.
trate the operation of a funded debt as
capital—the fecrctary concludes thus :
" There are respeCtable individuals, who,
from a jufl av, rjion to an accumulation of
public debt are unwilling to concede to it
any kind of utility, who can discover no
good to alleviate the ill with which they
suppose it pregnant ; who cannot be per
suaded, that it ought in any sense to be
viewed ac au increase of capital, least it
(tiould be inferred, that the rcore debt the
more capital, the greater the bnrtheni, the
greater ilie bleflings of the community."
" But it intcreds the public councils to
edimate every object as it truly is; to ap
preciate how far the good in any nieafure
is comjJenfated by the ill, or the ill by the
good ; either of them infeldom unmixed."
" Neither will it follow, that an accumu
lation of debt is dcjirab!:, becaule a certain
degree of it operates as capital. There
may be a plethora in the political, as in
the natural body ; there may be a slate of
things in which any such artificial capital is
unnecrjfarj. The debt too m<y be swelled
to such a size, as that the greated part of
it may cease to be ufeftil as a capital, fcr
ving only to pamper tire dilfipation of idle
and diflblute individuals ; as that the suras
required to pay the in'ereli npon it may
become oppressive, and beyond the means
which a government can employ, confid
ently with its trdnqnili y, to raise them ;
as that the resources of taxation, to face
the debt, may have been (trained too fartu
adn it of extensions adequate to exigen
cies, which regard the public fafety "
" Where i his critical point is, cannot bt
pronounced ; but it is impofiible to be
lieve, that there is not such a point."
" And as the vicissitudes of nations be
get a perpeiual tendency to the accumula
tion of debt, there ought to be in every go 1
vernment a perpetual, anxious antl
effort to reduce that, which at any time exifls
as fafl as /hall he practicable, confidently wit),
integrity and good faith."
l.xtraft from a report of the secretary
of the treasury relative to additional sup
plies for carrying on the Indian war, pre
ienteil the 16th of March, 1792.
" The result of mature rifledtion is, ir
the mind of the secretary, aitrong convic
tion that the hill of the three expedients
which have been mentioned (that was th<
railing of the sum irquired by taxes) is tc
be preferred to either of th« other two."
" Nothing can more intered the nation
al credit and prosperity, than a condanl
and fydematic attention to hujband all tin
means previously poffeffedfor er.tingui/hing th,
present debt, and to avoid, as much as poffi
ble, the incurring of any new debt."
" Neceflity alone, therefore, can juftifj
the application of any of the public pro
pertv, other than the annual revenues, tc
the current service, or the temporary, am
casual exigences of the country—or th:
contracting of an additional debt, b)
loans, to provide forthofe exigencies."
Great emergencies indeed might exist
in which loans would be indifpenfible —
But the occalions, which will juftify them
mult be truly of that description."
" The present i 3 not of such a nature
The sum to be provided is not of magni
tude enough to furniih the plea of r.ecef
fity."
" Taxes are never welcome to a com
munity. They seldom fail to excite unea
Ty sensations more or lef» extenfne ; henci
1 too strong propensity in the govern
ment of nations to anticipate and mort
jage the resources of posterity, rathei
.han encounter the inconveniences of z
present increase of taxes."
" But this policy, when not dittated bj
very peculiar circumjances, is of the worj.
Unci—lts obvious tendency is, by enhanc
ng the permanent burthens of the people
o produce lading didrefs, and its natura
fTue is in national bankruptcy. 99
" It will be happy, if the councils of t hit
■ountry, fandionrd by th,• voicc of an enlighten
•d community, [h»il be able to pursue a differ
ourfe."
Here is exampK added to precept ;
In putfuit of a dodtrinc, the oppolite oi
that which is charged upon him, the se
cretary did not fc-uple to hazard the po
pularity of his adminidration with a class
of citizens, who, as a class, have been a
mong the firmed friends of the govern
merit, and the warmed approvers of the
measures, which have redored public cre
dit. The circumstance indeed has been a
weapon dexterouily wielded againd him
by his enemies ; who in consequence of
the increase of duties proposed have repre
sented him as the oppred'or of trade. A
certain description of men are for getting
out of debt ; yet are againd all taxes for
raifiug money to pay it off; they are
amougd the foremolt for carrying 011 war,
and yet will have neither loans nor taxes.
They are alike opposed to what creates
debt, and to what avoids it.
In the firlt cafe, their meaning is not
difficult to be divined ; in the lad it would
puzzle any man, not endowed with the
of fecoiid fight, to find it out, unless
it be to quarrel with and pull down every
man who will not consent to walk in their
leading firings ; or to throw all tilings in
to condition. FACT.
Sept. ii.
i —
For the National Gazette.
Civis to MehcAtor.
LITTLR other notice of the futile reply
of Mercator to Civis is necefl'ary,
than merely to put in a clear light the erro
neoufnefs of the standard, which lie has a
dopted for calculating the arrears ofinte
| relt to the end of the year 1790.
He takes for his standard \\\e present an
nual interest on the whole amount of the
public debt, as provided for under the fund
ingfyjlcrti—that is, ift. upon the former prin
cipal of the foreign and doineftic debt : —
2d. upon the arrears of intcrejl of that princi
pal, which on the id of January 1791, and
not before, became principal, by the provi
fious of the funding law:—3d. Upon the
whole amount of the a {Turned debt—that is
2 1,500,000.
Now the fact is, that the only arrears,
which can colorably be computed, are those
011 the principal of the foreign and domcjlic debt.
according to the terms of interelt, which
they aHua/ly bore, up to the ill: Jan. 179;. —
ill. became, in fa£t, the arrears of interelt
011 that principal did not bear intcrejl till the
ift Jan. 179 1. and coafequently no intcrejl
whatever accrued upon them. And 2d. became
the government of the United States took
up tne Hate debts, as they flood at the end
of the year 1791. —If arrears of interelt ac
cumulated, in the mean time,'twas the af
fair of the Hate governments, which were
the debtors and alone rel'ponlible for a pro
vision for it, not of the government of the
United States, which only became respon
sible by virtue of the uflumpt'ron, from the
time that it took effect, that is from the Ift
of January 1792 ; from which period the
interelt has been punctually paid. This is
the true view of it, unless it can be (hewn,
that the government of the United States is
answerable for the neglects and omissions of
the Hate governments. —But, what arrears
may li3ve really accumulated on this part
of the debt is unknown ; as it is under
stood, that there were in feme Hates a pro
vision for the interefl.
Calculating then the arrears, which did
actually accrue, that is 011 tile principal and
interest of the foreign and doineltic debt,
the former, according to the various rates
which were stipulated upon it, and the lat
ter at 6 per cent, the rate which it then
bore, from the ill of August 1789, to the
ill ot January 1791, from which period in
terest iia; been paid—tiie amount is 3,003,
378- 47 dollars, that is 1,032,980. 72' dol
lars less than the amount of the arrears
Hated for the fame period by Mercator.
"1 his Hatement is not made from any secret
sources of information,but from document:
long lince in pofTedio los the public. Ii
Mercator has been inattentive to the means
of information, he ought not to come forth
the inftruftor of his fellow-citizens.
In a mere question of the mcreafe and de
crease of the public debt, if the arrears of
interest which accrued oil the all'nmed debt
up to the period, from which the United
States began to pay interest upon it, be
placed 011 onefide of the account —the laving
or rednftion, by the nature of the provliiou
tor it, ought to be placed, 011 the other fide
and the balance will be in favor of the
United States.
Had Mercator stated an account with the
tiealury department, 011 his own principle
candidly applied, namely, that of setting of:
the surplus of revenue, to the end of the
year 1790, againlt the amount of the debl
redeemed bypurchafes and payments—the
iccount would have Hood thus —
Debtor Side.
ro amount or liirplus revenue dels. cts.
to the end oftheyear 1790, 1,33^,87.5.84
Credit Side.
Jy the amount of the sum which
appears by the Hatement of
the Register of the Treasury
to have been redeemed and
paid off - _ 1,845,21-. 4 c
>y sum remaining to be applied 39->.024. 1 -
2,242,241. 55
Balance - 903,366.71
lemg the amount of the public debt attual
y reduced, beyond the amount of the fund
remaining 011 hand, at tl.e commencement
jf the operation of the funding system, in
'ifius of antecedent provision, and excluiive
as reductions 011 the rates of interest.
As to the concluding remarks of Merca
:or, they depart from the question. 'Ti.
no matter, in reference to that, wlietlier
the items which were mentioned are cir
cumstances of temporary expedient, or re
mits of the Ibundelt policy. They cor,i!i
tute pofitivt_/aW<i,J» and gaint to the nation.
But it was not fufficient for Mercator to
alfert ; he ought to have (hewn what la ri
lice of jultice or principle was involved in
them.—Not having eione it, 'tis fufficient
to observe, that oik-good effect of the liiea
lures ol finance,which have been adopted by
the present government, is at lead unequi
vocal— The public credit has bet a ejfdhially re-
/lorcd. This may 'oe, In the eyes of Mercd*
<° r ' of . f le "'omenr There are certain
1 heoi iits, who hold both private and pub
lic credit to be pernicidus. —But their disci-
P are not numerous : at least among so
ber and enlightened men.
*1 he actual benefits or actual evils of the
meafares conneaed with the treasury
department, prel'ent and future, would be
cheerfully submitted to the Test of Expe
rience— Happy would it be for the coun
try, honorable for human nature, if the ex
periment were permitted to be fairly made.
But the pains which are taken to mifrepre
ent the tendency of those measures, to in*
(lime the public mind, to dilturb the ot
rations of government, are a decided proof,
lhat those, to whom they are attributable,
[lare not trust the appeal to such a Test.'
Convinced of this, they have combined all
-lieii forces, and are making one desperate
effort to gain an ascendancy, in the public
councils, by means of the ensuing eleaion,
n order to precipitate the laudable work of
:leltroyiog what has been done.
C I V I s.
Philadelphia, Sept. n.
For the National Gazßtte.
A WRITER in the Gazette of Satur
day last, after several observations,
with regard to certain charges, which have
lately been brought forward against the Se
iTetary of State, proceeds to make or inli
iiuate several charges against another pub
lic charaaer.
As to the observations which are designed
:o exculpate the Secretary Of State, I Ihall
:lo nothing more than refer to the difcuf
ions which have taken place and appear t»
jein a train to be pursued, in the Gazette
it the United States.
As to the charges which have been bro't
Jgainft the other public charaaer alludett
.<), I (hall afl'ert generally, from a lou*, inti
iiate, and confidential w.tf*
lim, added to feme other means of inform-
Jtion, that the matters charged, as far
is they are intelligible, are either erofsly
nifreprefented or palpably untrue.
A part ot them, is of a nature to speak it
elf, without comment, the malignity and
.urpitude ot the accuser, denoting clearly
he personal enemy in the garb of the poli
cal opponent.
1 he lubjea and the fltuation of the
les naturally unpofe silence—but this is not
■he hrit attempt of the kind that has been
made ; fru.tlefsly hitherto, and I doubt not
equally Iruitlefsly in time to come. An
jpimon on the experience of fifteen years
:lie greateit part of the time, under circum
tances aliordiilg the belt opportunity for
in accurate estimate of charaaer, cannot
be fiiaken by slanderous surmises. The
charge ot which 1 (hall take more particular
notice, is contained in the following passage
-"Let him explain the public charaaer,
alio, it uncontradicted fame is to be re
garded, opposed the Couftitiition inthe Crand
Convention, becanfe it was too republican.
md advocated the Britijh monarchy as the per
tedjlandard to oe approached a's nearly as
he people could be made to bear.''''
This I affirm, to be a gross mifreprefen
ation. To prove it so, it were fufficienC
oappeal to aimgJe fact, namely, that the
rentleman alluded to, was the only mem
>er from the (late to which he belonged
yholigned the Cftnftitution, and.it is noto
•ious, against the prevailing weight of the
>fticial influence of the fiate, and against
vhat would probably be the opinion of a
arge majority of liis fellow-citizens, till
Mter information ihould cor rea their firft
mprefHons—how then can he be believed
o have opposed a thing, which he aauallv
'greed to, and that, in so unsupported a
ituation, and under circuraftances of such
Peculiar relporriibiliry ? To this I (hall add
wo more Jaas ; cue, that the member in
luellion, never made a (ingle proportion to
iie Convention, which was not conforma
ble to the republican theory ; the other
hat the highelt-toncd of any of the propol
ition.", made by him was aaually voted for
>v the reprefentatioHs of several dates, in
eluding iome of the principal ones, and in
dueling individuals, who, in the ertimation
jf those who deem themselves the only re
publicans, are pre-eminent for republican
charaaer—more than this I am not at li
berty to fay. It is a matter generally un«
ilerllood, that the deliberationsof the Con
vention u hich were carried on in private
were to remain undisturbed. And every
prudent man nmft be convinced of the pro
priety bo h of the one and the other.—Had
the deliberations been open while going on
■he clamours of faction would have prevent
;d any fatisfaclory result. Had they been af
.eiwards disclosed, much food would have
jeen afforded to inflammatory declamation.
Proportions made without due reflefUon,"
and perhaps abandoned by the proposers
themselves, on more mature rreflt-aion,
would have been handles for a profuiion of
il-natured accufatlon.
Kvery infallible declaimer taking his own
ideas a the perfect llandard, would have
i ailed without mealure or mercy at
member of the Convention who had rone *i
lingle line beyond his standard.
The present is a period fruitful in acctr
fation. Much anonymous (lander has ami
v\i!lhe vented. Ino man's reputation can
oeiafe, if charges in this form are to b£lightly lifted to.' Th?re are but two
kinds of anonymous charges that can merit
attention—Where the evidence goes
with the charge—and where reference is
made to Jpecijic faffs, the evidence of the
truth or falfehood of which, is in t/ie power
or polleffioii of the party accused, and he at
liberty to make A free use of it. None of
the charges brought forward in the present
instance, fall within either of these rules.
AMICUS.
Sept. ii.
LONDON, July [6 .
txtrad of a letter frotn Lijlc, June 7 •».
Not only the interior state of affair? be
gins to Wear a most unfavorable afpeft, but
the exterior tranfa&ions seem ominous of
no better success, and M. Luckr.er's main
army, instead of proceeding to the attack
of Tournay, find's no little difficulty in
maintaining their feeble post at Courtrav.
The Auftrians advance every day in par
ties, and annoy the French oh the very ram
parts. On Saturday morning Tome pea
sants having brought information of a co
lumn of Auftrians advancing from the
Tournay fide, Mefirs. Carle and Jarry, whe
command the advanced guard, put them
selves at the head of their troops, and
inarched out against the enemy ; a flight
affair enftied, in which the loss 011 both fide;
amounted to about twelve killed, and a:
many prisoners.
Marshal Luckner, who had already paid
his visit to the poll, was returned to Me
nin ; but, on the news of this affair imme
diately went back to Courtray with the ge
neral officers, and marched to the attack ;
he exposes himfelf with much temerity,
and excites, on that account, 2 great deai
of anxiety.
Yesterday morning the Aitflrians r«urn
ed to the assault in greater force, and 3
more serious affair occurred ; it began a)
five, and lasted two hours ; during which
great courage was displayed on both (ides.
The French had twenty men wounded, anc
about twelve killed ; amongst the former,
Lt. Gen. Du Chatelet received a caiinor
ball, which took off the calf of one leg, ant.
killed his horse under him; an aid-de
camp also received a wound in his head
The French remained on the field till ele
ven o'clock, when the enemy having disap
peared, they returned to the camp ; bin
llrong rumonrs prevailed, thnt the Auftri
ans were resolved upon coming in ftil
greater force to renew the attack.
Unless the main army moves from Me
nin (which is two leagues off) where the)
are still encamped, to reinforce their ad
vanced guard at Courtray, no doubt bul
great {laughter will tifeielsly take plact
there,the Auftrians not being at all afraid tc
diftnantle Tournay of the force in its gar
rison : but it seems that M. Luckner's ope
rations have been limited, otherwise he
wowld before now have marched his whole
force againfl Tournay.
Mean time the odious scenes tranfaftec:
at Paris within these few days, have so ge
nerally disgusted all the few remaining re
fpeftable commanders in the army, thai
they talk of giving in their dismissions.
Four officers have deserted from Cour
tray since Friday ; amougfl whom are the
Colonel of the firft regiment of Chasseurs
on horse back, and two adjutant-majors.
Belides this, in many of the battalions, there
reigns an obstinate spirit of disobedience anc
dru'ikennefs ; in (hort, their extent oi'patri
olifm seems to be the meafiire of their cla
mor in bawling " CA IRA."
It appears to have been a miftatement ir
the public prints, which reprefc-uted thai
the States General had fignified adifpofitioi
to join the cause ofAuftria and Pruflia a
gainst France, and that in this the provinc
of Holland stood much forward : on tin
contrary, the prevailing politics of thai
province are more difaffefted towards tin
existing government of the States, thar
those of any other, hence we may con
clude, that the wifli of that quarter wouUi
rather be in favor of the French; howe
ver, the fart seems to be, that the Sladt
holder and his friends have no delign to
concern themselves at all in the affairs of
rranee, but unite in sentiment with Eng
land, and preserve a drift and honorable
neutrality ; at the fame time, this condu.
will best answer the purpose of their own
internal politics, as to keep the difaffeaed
in Hollaml in aw e requires all the vigi
lance of government.
i he new minister of Spain has relaxed
somewhat of the tifual severity refperting
the prohibition of the French and other fo
reign newspapers ; the pretended watch
ulnefsis still kept up, but exceptions are
ealily obtained. Complaints having been
received from the ports of the ignorance in
which this prohibition kept the merchants
refpefting foreign affaire, has been a princi
pal cause of this relaxation of severity 011
the part of government ; and mereover, it
appearing, that such a prohibition more
strongly excited curiofky, at the fame time
that the political principles enforceel in the
foreign papers might make a deeper impres
sion, if clandeOinely ft tidied in private, than
if permitted publicly. 011 these accounts
the vigilant eye of government is turned
from all papers which are not of a direct
seditious tenelencv.
Sunday morning was decided, in a field
behind Kilburn Wells, an affair of honour
b?tv/p?n the Earl of Lauderdale and Gene
ral Arnold.
Th? d fpute arose from the following
part ot Lord Lauderdale's speech in tfu-
House of Lords.
'• If apoftacy is a recommendation to com
mand, the Duke of Richmond. of all offi
cers, is the best entitled to that of the camp
at Bag(hoc, provided the name of Genera 1
Arnold be (irlt (truck ou'the lift."
The principals, with their seconds and
surgeons, arrived upon the ground aboui
leven o'clock, occupying a post-coach an*
two post-chaises. Having taken their fta
tio:is. Lord Lauderdale refufed to toss uj
with Gen. Arnpid. As the General though
hiftifelf injured, his Lordship infilled upoi
receiving his tire firft.
When General Arnold had difchargei
his pistol, Lord Lauderdale declared, tha
lie never had (aid or meant any thing again!
his private character, and having no person
al enmity towards him, would not (ire
the seconds then interfered ; and such be
ing the disposition of the parties, it is eaf)
to perceive that the aifair was soon fettled.
Thefeconils were, to Lord Lauderdale.
Mr. Fox; to Gen. Arnold, Lord Hawke.
In confecjuence of a lignal victory gaineei
tiy the allied army, under the command ol
Karl Cornwallis, (in the vicinity of tlu
:ity of Seringapatam) over that of Tippoc
->aib, on the 6th of February last, prelimi
naries of peace between the confederate
cowers, and thefultan Tippoo, werefettlee
and exchanged on the 23d of the lam<.
month. The following is a copy of the ar
tides, as transmitted to England by Lore
Cornwallis, and publifliecl in the Londo:
Gazette extraordinary of the jth of July :
Copy of the Preliminary Articles, agreed upon am
exchanged, dated February 22, 1792.
Art. I. One half of the dominion
which were in the pofleffion of Tippoi
">ilkan, at the commencement of the pre
lent war, (hall be ceded to the Allies, adja
cent to their refpe&ive boundaries, and a
vreeably to their feleftion.
11. Three crores, and thirty lacksof ficcr
rupees, (liall be paid to the allies, agreeabh
to the following particulars, viz. First, on.
:rore, and fixty-ffve lacks, (hall be paid im
mediately in pagodas, or gold mohurs, 01
rupees of full Weight and standard, or ir
T ,o'd and silver bullion. Second, the re
mainder, one crore, and (ixty-five lacks, at
lire? instalments, not exceeding 4 month;
jach, in the three coins before mentioned.
111. All subjects of tiie four seVeral pow
s, who may hive been prisoners front the
time of the late Hyder Ally Khan, to the
,•1 efent period,f.iall be fairly and unequivo
cally re leafed.
Iv. Until the due performance of the
three articles above mentioned, two of the
three eldeftfons of Tippoo Sultan shall be
riven aq hostages, 011 the arrival of whom,
1 ceuation ofhoitilities shall take place.
V. When an agreement, containing the
irticles above written, (liall arrive, bearing
the seal and signature of Tippoo Sultan"!
counter agreements (hall be sent from tht
three powers : and, after the cefTatlon of
noltilities, such a definitive treatv of per
petual frieudfliip, a; (hall be fettled by the
everal parties, lhall be cdjtifted and enter
ed on. Signed,&c.
Second affair in India between a French and En"
lifk Frigate.
A I ligate, mounting ,10 eighteen pound
ers, commanded by "Vs. St. Felix, who
erved the whole of last war under M. Suf
rejin, arrived the la'ter end of last month
it Mahe, from port I'Orient. The feco.nl
•lay after his arrival, M. St. Felix sent an
•filter oil board the Minerva, who was di
rected to fly to tiip Commodore, " that the
trench frigate under his command was go
ng to tlie port of Mangalore, anel requeft
ng to know whether, in cafe lie proceeded
.0 fail to that port, the commander would
>e imprudent enough to attempt searching
he lh p. The Commoelore anfwereel, —
' that as (he was going to an enemy's port,
le certainly would " With this answer,
he o.'Hcer returned to M. St. Felix, who in
1 few hours sent Irrfi back, with orders to
nform the Commoddre, " that he meant
o get under weigh early the next mor
:ing, anel that he was well nfliired that the
■oinmodore would rot prcfume to im'pede
lim was he unfnpported by the other (hips
jf his Iquadron."
The corfimodote instantly made aflgnalfor
dl his lieutenants, anel gave orders for the
vhole of the squadron to get under weigh
ind proceed to sea on a cruise for eight
lays. Ihe officer returned, find earlv the
lext morning the French fHgate was seen
mder her topfails,in the offing of Tellicher
y load;, (landing ih. The tompions were
Mic of her guns, and her people at their
quarters. 7 hat the commodore, who in
tantly weighed anchor, was equally prepa
eel, there can be no doubt. The people
A the French frigate were decidedly of opi
nion, that they had no right to obey the
dictates or ;i democratic enthulialt; or ven
ture their lives in engaging a Britilh fliip at
ihe moment of profound peace with that
nation. The Captain threateneel them
v\ith the vengeance of military power, in
which, after i'ome confutation among
themselves, and some gentle but ineffectual
remonstrances with M. St. Felix, they came
111 a body on the quarter deck, confined
him to his cabin, put the (hip about, anel
hood out to She was fees the next
morning at anchor in Malie road«, where
the Refolu {till remains a mere wreck
from the damage (lie received in her action
with the Phenix.
The \ eotnanry, where they liave come
orward to the public meeting ■, have given
:in honelt negative to tile addrefles. They
.lave r.o influence upon their minds, but
that of truth; unconnected with the court,
find out of the reach of its beams, they are
actuated by the impulses of honest patri
otilm. Thus in Northumberland they
withstood at once the combined torrent of
i oyal, ministerial and aristocratic power ;
and thus, wherever they are moved, they
will demnnftrate to their country their ir
refutable superiority.
Letters, received over land yesterday
from Bombay, via Suez, state, that the
confederate powers had fettled their res-
shares of the three crore3 and thirty
acks, paid by Tippoo, as follows :
The Nizam 4-i6ths
Pefhwa _ 5- i6ths
East-India Company 7-r6ths
They likewise confirm the report ref
lecting Gen. Meadows, who, as soon as the
oils of Tippoo reached the camp, lodged
balls in his ovvu body, two of which have
ieen extracted. 7he General has deter
mined to quit India, and is now nioft pro
labiy on his paflage to Europe.
r THE constitution as it is.
THE King's patronage, now exerted—
I-i placing and pensioning rather more
than two-thirds of the house of lords.
In placing and pensioning a great majority
of the Commons.
In placing and pensioning the great influ
ence in tlechms.
In placing and pensioning the petty Bo
rough Mongers, or their relations in nominal
and useless offices—fuch as making tide
waiters, &c. of persons for London and o
ther places, w ho never perform any servi
ces at those places; whereby in total the.
fewpenons who elefl the majority of the
house of commons, and the house of com
mon* and lord; themfelres, are in majority
the placemen and pensioners ofhismnjef
ty—Witnefs the red book.
1 he house of lords ; gradually declining
into C.nelphs ; for it i:; a matter of com
mon supposition, that all persons bearing
that name, and ornamented with a royal
escutcheon, will be made peers.
Peers created by batches, at convenient
times, just as if nature had, at once, darted
s set of beings to perform good and great
things at once entitling them to peer
ages.
A house of lords; indefinite and innume
rable. at present encrea ed to between two
and three hundred, which, at the wifdoni
of his majesty, may be to-morrow two or
three thousand. \Vhy fliould the house of
lords be unlimited while the number of the
commons is fixed to a ?
The house of commons; confiding of
-.58 members; 280 members a majority of
the whole house of commons are elected
by so few as 500 per Tons, who chnfe the ma
jority of the commons, who are so influen
ced by Only about 70 propr ctors of the sod
and houses, belonging to the petty boroughs
that it may be fad, that about ~o persons
by their influence, aflually nominate and
elect the major part of the commons ; so
that 70 persons make laws and taxes for the
whole kingdom, by means of the house of
commons.
What fignifies quibbling, where the effect
is the fame ; bribery is called corruption
and iniquity, because it supposes a contract
for a b f purpose. Influence, however, is
not to be branded with any stigma. Bribe
ry is an undue, illegal influence, but that
influence hich cannot be detected as a con
tract of bribery, however such influence may
be in effect, is not bribery.
It is really requisite to difcirfs the mat
ter. otherwise placing and pensioning the
majority of the lords and commons would
be called bribery. No ! no ! places and
penfiohs are not bellowed, as fops for be
traying the rigtirs, and facrificing the inter
effs or the people, but are very proper, very
purgative, very legal fops, such as all kings
heretofore have praQifed very wifely, and
very appositely : The taxes of this nation
ire high proofs of the propt iety of the Royal
Alimony I
Advices have been received at Warsaw
of a lecoiid victory obtained by the Polish o
ver the Ruffian troops.
These were written immediately after
the *aion, and tell only in haste, that the
Ruffians attacked General Wielhorfki, at
the head of a division of the Polish troops
under the Ukraine; that the Poles were
upon the point of yielding to the superiori
ty ot the enemy, when the General, Prince
Joseph Poniatowfki arrived with a rein
forcement ; and that this party then fell up
on the enemy's flank, obliging them to re
tire precipitately, and to abandon the held
of battle as well aa 14 pieces of cannon.
Our accounts mention also the unanimi
ty of the I'oiifh nation in the present war,
notvvithftaliding the endeavours of tfie Po
tocki aristocracy. The peasants have refu
fed to receive payment for the forage fur
nifhed by them to the army of the republic ;
and the generals in fbine infVances have been
obliged to deposit the money in their hou
ses by force. At Wilha, i-» ithnania, the
ladies have raised fifteen hundred ducats, bv
fubferintion, towards the expenccs of the
wsr. the members of the Diet hr.ve fa.L
I ribed 400 ducats, and Cent them to the 3cai
soldiers, who reptilfed the Ruffians in the
'lift conteff.
1 he conduflors of the Gazette Nation-*
ale, at Warsaw, have engaged to furnifh
_000 florins, per month, during the war.
Hie wife of the Grand Ghaneelior of Li
thuania has promised an hundred ducats
annually, during the fame time ; and the
Nonce tor Pofnania hasfent 300 ducats, to
gether with a gold watch and chain, which
are to be the reward of the fir ft officer
wliofe cor P s gains an advantage over ail
?ncmy double in number to his own.
During the a£lion between Gen. Wei
ohorfki and the Ruffians, the magnificent
Ja.ace of the traitor Potocki at Tulczyn
near which the battle was fought, was fee
an hre, it is not known by whom, and burn,
to a . , e3- , Putocki is supposed to have
jeen with the Ruffian army, and to have
wttnelled the conflagration.
The king of Poland has declared the re
public to be in fiich a state of defence as
the enemy may find it very difficult to dif
.urb. Meanwhile the Poles may mingle,
with their patriotic ardour, the comfortable
lope, that their hoary persecutor will soon
>e dragged offthatftageofexiftence, which
for the (ins ol Europe and Alia, lhe has been
permitted to drench with human blood Co
long.
PHILADELPHIA.
September 12, 1792*
ExtraEl of a letter from a gentleman at DarwilU
(Kent.) to his friend in this city, dated Aug. io.
" By two men who were made prisoners
it St. Clair's defeat, and who ran away
from ail Indian town on the St. Joseph's
-iver.about the roth of July, we are assured,
that all our flags have been facrificed by the
;nemy. They inform that major Trueman,
as the regular troops, who bore one of the
lags, reached the (..laze river, where the*
:hiefs of many nations of Indians were a r ~"
embled to hold a grand council ; that he
delivered to them a belt and talk, which
was read to them by an Kngtilhrnan ; upon
which a council was held which ended in a.
Jetermination to reject every offer of peace;
uid to put to death every American thac
hould fall into the~r hands ; that accord—
ngly major Trueman and his party were
omhawked, and their bodies thrown into
he river. They also inform that colonel
Hardin, one of the most valuable citizens
jf this state, who carried another flag, was
idled by the Wiandots, and that that tribe,
-he Sandufkies, Pattawatainies, Chippe
''V:l}" j Huron's, ATaumee 0 , Delawares, andt
shawanefe, are decidedly for war. I have
;very reason to believe "the above intelli
gence maybe depended upon, as it is in a
;reat degree supported by information re
vived through different channels. Gene
al Putnam came out iuftrufted, it is said,
o proceed to the Omee to press upon the
avagesthe necessity of their going to Phi
adelphia : but information of the fate of
ioor Hardin and Trueman, and of the hof
ile disposition of the Indians, hasdetermin
d him todeciine his million. Depredations'
lave been incelfantly committed by the ln
lians upon the whole extent of the weftcru
frontier, on both fides the Ohio river. With
-11 the bounds of this liate alone, between
forty and fifty persons have been killed or
made prisoners in the course of the spring
and lummer. Nor have the regular troops
altogether escaped. A party of 18 who
were making imy near Fort Jefferfon, were
lately attacked, and one only made hi*
jfcape ; four that were made prisoners were
burnt by the Shawanefe the next day.—
Mr. Bilte, commenced the purchase of ca
valry horses the last of June, and in ten
lays purchased 250, the number required.
The horses are cheap and well adapted to'
the fei vice ; but as yet there are 110 men
either to mount or train them.
To the Editor of the Rational Gazette.
THRO' the channel of your impartial pape r
plcafe to communicate the genu ne fenti"
ments of a large majority of the county of
Montgomery.
A county meeting is ailvertifed to be luld at
the noufe of John Wcntz, in Whipain townlhip
on the 291b infl. and also that committees from
townlhips be chosen the 2;<d. to attend this
meeting. The meeting that pafled this resolve
was partial and by no mea s expreflive of the
sense of the county. Eleven townlh'ipj only
having attended out of ;8, and some of thent
were font by three persons only. 'I'he majori
ty of the eleflors are averfc to committees, and
determined never to give up ih it confiitutional
rights of cbufirig their own Repref'entativcs,
both in Congrcfs and Ailembly ; and they look
upon every would-be-Nabob, with contempt,
that would by aitful insinuations filch from then'
il.fir mod invaluable privilege!.. Youare there
fore requelled to infeit the following: The Inde
pendent EleSlorsof the county of Montgomery, art
dejired to meet individually at , the hcufe of John
IVentz m Whipain tovmfhip. on Thufday the <th
of Otlober nr.\t, to corjult on a ticket for Reprlfelt
tativesin the General Affemhly of Pennfy/vania for
the enfmng general election , also, far Rep-efenta
lives w the Congrcfs of the United States.
N. B. It is expelled that no committees front
torimfhips will attend.
Montgomery County, Sept. jo, ijyz.From the Cueomcle.
Ibt CRIAT MEN.
A GREAT man, uncle Elnatbar. ! who woulc
A w.lh t<> ce a ereat man ' S. A- »<* » Vf**-
man, in 1775- a "« in '77 6 - : The people connde,
him as a great man now ; or as a good ma.it n,
matter which.—But the Cofton people would no,
hear him speak in town meeting, aga:nll then
natural theatrical rights.—J- H. was agrca
man, and he remains so now in the mind, or th.
peopli j but he ha. beenevil y treated in that vehi
cle of akule called the Centinel.—J. A. was i
great man, when he made peace for his country
but they fay h: went to England, and there wrot.
a book, about three natural orders ot men , the;
write apa.nlt his book in the Gazette ol Be.
Edes i that pure, ebafie, facial,!r, J'/trat, titan
liJy, impart,.'l paper—the upper order, a* tin
book lays, are haughty, they have got the fix fa
cents, and Haul frock ; the middle order do the Du
finefs, and grumble ; the lower scold and vote
poor J. A. uncle, I do not know how he wnl ge
Those people who we opposed to the revolu
tion, love to battr ju,-. g those who trough, it abo..,t
and when thev fee the talte .f the people turne,
aeainft one of' these old republican leaders,the;
enjoy it finely-wheie one of these old republl
can krandees are to be found at war with another
it is rare (port.—'Then huzza ! —take fides !-
form a ring !—hate both equallj, but Imite the
falling one.—There aie I'ome old wings uncle
whole politics run so mightily upon orders of men
upon kings, lords, and commons, that the ai.ti-ie
volutioniih love their principles, though tney hati
the men ; and they Write and talk in their f-vor
But when principles are eftablilhed quite opuofit.
to thole of the revolution, then these old polite
cians will be proved to have been fools or mad
Inch, and will be laid alide.
There is T.m Jeff"/'", uncle, he is a Sccretarj
they fay j you know he compoled the Decla.a
tion of Independence, and moved for it firft it
Congress . he was an old whig, attached to ic
publ.can prirciples. He had a great lead in timt
of the war, and lie n.adc the peace, they fay he i:
a very particular friend of the P.efiuent but tnr\
abuled him in the Centinel the other day—the;,
bring high chatges agair.ft him—they lay he
in France when the cohflitution of the genera
government was oifered to the people for confid
eratioo, and he, as one of the people, prcfumptu
cif.y, dared to think for Irtnftlf—Oh monftious
He ventured, they lay, as one of the people, !
propole amendments, with an intention to mak.
i: plain, certain, unequivocal, and intelligible,
and thereby to secure, better, the rights of the peo
ple.— It is a great picy that he did not succeed ;
for if he had fucceedcd, the great men, who gin
gle the bell to the tune of five tbeufarJ dollarj c
year, might have understood the meaning of it.
whereas, now, they go d. .vn to NevT-H.tmplh.re,
laying doubt eggs in every nelf on the road, then
go back to Philadelphia to get aid in their incu
bative faculties, and when they return they
hixh—Nothing.—But they fay, uncle, that Tom
is at the head ol an impo. taut office in the gener
al government, and keeps a printer to find faoli
with tne administration j not his own 1 1 uppol
this is a ferrous charge—ll he prints fallhoods, h<
may be detested, if he r«afons wrong upon agreee
fails, they may point out his errors, and the peo
ple will not mind him—Eut her: is the rub, un
cle ; these men fay the people a,e nut judges, afie
are not fit to be truftec. —A man when he accepn
an office, is luppofed, according to the rules ol
the old woild, to give up trie leelings of a citizen,
and is never to complain ol the mal-adminiftrn
rion of his co-adjutors—The end of placing a mar.
in office is to buy him silence j and he is ne
vei to alarm the people when corruption prevaii
in the government. For a man at the h:ad ol
cne department, to fay to his mod confidtntia
f.iend, that the man at the head of another
might have done full juflice to the public (pecu
lating creditors, and laved half the public debt, it
high treason, whether it be true or not—To fay,
as.Congress in the year 1774- in their address tc
the people said, that " inlenCble taxatun has a
tendency to coriupt the government, and to en
llave the people," is an unpardonable crime . Tc
fay that all this pretended plenty of money, i
imperceptibly drawn from the toil of the laborious
part of the community, to enrich ftockhohie,:,
will never be forgiven, for the truth is not to be
i>ken at all times—For a man at the head of a
oepartment, to fay that it was corrupt in the nun
offtate to be purcbafing up public fecuriiies, at a
low price, from the oiiginal holders, while they
were contemplating, and had agreed upon the
funding system, is very wrong, tor the k.ng can
do no wrong. To fay that fame members ot a
late Congress invented « kind of machinery,
calico a Bank, and contrived to have the (hare*
filled up in on: day, to exclude the greater part of
thecommunity, and to raiie m-unta.ns ot wealth
for themselves, and a tew others, whether it be
true or faife, ii a daring inful: upon parliamen
tary, and govemmentary priviieges j—they fay
lie and his printer, find fault with an aflkmbly
of men, v.ho have leo tne pc ipie in the oa, cl
their danger and diltreft and who havejuftl.
earned their confidence. But MHarry Sly-Btt s
fays, that a late aflemb.y had fomemen in it, who
were formerly (he people's enemies, and who ne
ver had a true relish for civil liberty, andalway.
were at war with the revolution, and with repub
lican principles. Some others who were boys,
when the people were m danger, and knew no
thing about the conteft —Tom may look upon
these with contempt when they wax faucv.
There is another great man, uncle, his name
is George Clinton, he has been guilty of poUcfim;
the confluence of the people tor many years j he
it a mofi abominable democrat—a terrible repub
lican, he led the aflemblies and the annies of th.
p. ople in 1774, and so through the war ; he wa.
the foul of liberty in the state of New York —
pull hirn down fay the old tories—he may have
thought, that the adm.ni Uration of a government,
which by a magic opeiaiion raises mount»ins of
v-ealth for some men, on the powerful labour ot
the people at large, is not a good adminiftration —
down with him lay the peculators —he is againit
kill),!, Uidi, uMocrats, ctnifoliuaiion 0' govern-
mer.tSj and >11 Oi«fc tkJwfc as
Hallo? '. —The Centintl is hungry tor abu
e.cs, writr thtm li iwn —;>ell they ait 1
illcn lor m.
Wbtn Ift "'J more Great 1 -wul oar.u
them nyu Uncle.
K.I BROTH HAT AAV All.
—
From thi New' York Journal,
To tie CITIZENS of tbt UNITED STATES.
r-c-»HE eieftlon fir Prcfident and Vlce-Prefidcni
£ will loon tike place ; and a* it is tiie duty,
so It is the interelt, of the people of United Co
lumbia to fix u;>on proper peifons for eleflou ol
the above mentioned officers of government.
As to a Prcfident, there can be no doubt bol
our iiluftrious Washington will be continue
in thjt important and honorable station, and th.<t
the voicc of ihoufanos will yet hail him as tht
I'aiher and supporter of freedom. The oiiice <>i
Vice-Prelident will, doubtless, create 2 conten
tion, and i: will reft with the independent citiz m
if these United States to declare, whether nut
republicanism (hall prevail and fburHli, or tht
feeds ofariftocraey be permitted to take dee,
root in this foil of freedom. In all governmnn ■
llavery has made gradual and almost impercepti
ble encroachment-, under the fpecu.us pretext ol
■r.ergy and Jlabilky. Tyrants seldom rile up in i
seize upon the privileges of the people:
but artfully endeavour to Hill thtm into fecurlty
and represent to their imaginations the blefling:
and advantages of monarchical or ariflocratita
—Of such men beware ! whether thev
illume the n.me ot patriots, and are exalted tc
dignified Nations in your government, or arr«-fcat<
to themselves the title oi republicans, in order tc
carry their designs move fully into execution.
Remember, my m-*n, tnis importani
rrifn—recoiled the inclinable bleflings you U
long contended for, and forget not, that thr-.e are
iiicn among you who are anxious to overthrow i.u
[jlonoUa fabric ol fieedom, a >6 eretl on in ruir.a
that deformed monger, Arfrocracy.
Among the likely to succeed foi
V ice-Frefiiient, the following gentlemen may,
•vith propriety, be ranked.
Examine, critically, their refpe£ive characters j
seriously confide* who is the man mofr i';kciy tc
maintain tht republican interest, and which one i<
the enemy to monarchy. Have either 01
[hem, by writ ng or otherwise, supported princi
ples opposite to the pure spirit of liberty i which
pcifon annong them has advocated hereditary efta
ulilhmwnts, and endeavored to prepare the minas
)f the people of America for a king and nobility?
If the above questions cannot be ani'wered in the
affirmative, with refpedt to the undermentioned,
then you may fafely choose either ol them, ami
eft fatiafied with their administration. But if it
s alleapsdj that there is daagcr in placing power
in the hands of a man opposed to a republican
Form of government, and who is favorable to Eu
ropean f> Herns, and that such a person is in tin
lift now held up, rcjedt him from your councils,
ana place, in the fcoond office of your govern
ment, one favorable to independence, liberty, and
the Rights of Man.
CANDIDATES.
he Prtjident of the United Stntei*
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
Vice-Vrtjidtnt.
Jdhn Adams, ' Thomas Mifflin,
George Clinton, James Madison
John Jay, Hancock.
PUBLIC REPORTS
from ths
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
OF THE
Government of the United States
TO
CONG RESS,
Ccanencin; with the present Govemmmt, and end
ing with the dose oj the Sijjion of Muy, 179- •
THIS work is intended to be piined in oiv
volume oftuvo, eflimated to conta.n between
five and fix hundred and will be deliver
ed to fublcnbers ii> boards at One Dollar and a
half.
A complete colle£tiOn of the Reports into a
convenient and portable vonnrtj li isiioecn
oefted to the publishers by fevertl members o(
Congrcfs and other geni-ieinen, and they are now
determined to proceed on with the work, provi
ded a competent number of ftibfcribeis appear
to patronize the undertaking.
Subscriptions are received bv CHILDS zr.d
SWAINE, the pubhm-rs, I»o. 209 Market-
Breet, Philadelphia, and by the principal Book
iellers in the United States. May 24.
FOR SALE,
ABOUT joc,ooo acres of Land, lying near
WhitettoWn, in the Itate of • ew-York, on
the aorth fide of the M.V.'.awk river, adjoining
Nobleborough, and will be fold either in parcels
or together, as may luit the purchasers.
N. B. The above trafl of land i-> of the firft
quality in the state, chiefly timbered with bead
:.nd maple, well watered, and contains many mil)
leafs. The peculiar advantages of this traC>, fru
ated within a few miles of Whiteitown (which
contains upwards of five thousand itrhaoitants)
with an euly and convenient water to
Schenectady, Albany, and New-York, make it an
object for any perfonsinclined to fettle it, and ren
der it an extremelv advantageous purchase so
persons inclined to realize the.r money in land ol
a.i encresfing value. The wiiole or any par;
of it, will be fold very low for cash, or for pan
calli, and the remaining payments at distant peri
ods. Enquire at No. 229 Q.ueen-ttieet, near the
Fly-market New-York.
July 19^
For [alt at this Ofiicr, Sermons by
the Rev'd Dr. William. I.inn, of A'. York
Price 5/7 i-a.
books,
Printed ardfold by
M ATHEW CARE Y,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
T. America: Mui-um, from its commencement.
January .787, to June 1792, m eleven volumes
Price, neatly bound and Uttered, Seventeen dollar 1
■ id three fifths.
This -work-which is now condmlied on an im
proved flan, ecntair.irg the befl piecespubb.Jhc,J"
jaJ againtl the froeeidngs oj government, will bi
found to contain at leaji as great a variety of pot..
deal, agricultural, andmijctllanems tjfays, as an)
ever pubUJhed in America . Perhaps Ir. no .« wrl
rrejo many valuable documents rejpe&ing the h ju
ry of this country, colletied together. 1 Its excel
lency the Prejidcr.t of the United Irtates, has de
tared of it, that " a more ufcful literary plan
us never been undertaken in America, nor one
note de.lVrving of public encouragement." 7hi
fubfeription is tw dollars and ahalf per annum.
Gentler ei in tht'ewntry who twfh to be fipp.tee
with this Work, are reqticjied to give, eommijfion ti
■ riends in the city t» fibfer ibe for and receive it.
7. Smith's letters to married i*oweu, on nurjivt
and the management of children. " IVe 'Cenn.m-.ri
trie letters to ti'perufil of those to -whom they a 1
Particularly addnjjed.' Monthly Review, tol. ji,
I'aoe 101. I'r iie b.und five eighths of a dollar.
Dur.earfz elements of logic, three fourths oj *
ioi-ar.
4. Beauties of Fielding, 50 cents.
c. beauties of Blair, 50 cents.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library—containing IIJI
Mores EJ/'ays j Gregory's Legacy ; Lady Per,-
o:,;gtolt"s ciclvice ■> Marchionejs of Lambert s ad
■ Swift's letter to a newly i::arric.l lad. ;
Mrs. Chapene on corn- a-id of temper-, AUre s ju
ries fir tbe ladies Price bjb.
7. Smith's History oi New-\ork. Price a d*l
'ar and a quarter.
7, tl-mcnts of Moral Science, by Jam:s Beat
tie, L.L.r>. profejjor of moral phiiojophy and .ogu
m the Manjeoal College, Aberdeen—Prut three
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Critual Re
viewers (vol. 69. p. baS) Jay : " We have Jeer,
nothing or, theft fubje3s more plain, more perjp.cu
us, or mere genera ly ufeful."
9. Beauties of Poetry, Price four fjihs oj a
Idler.
10. Blair's Sermons,--frice ttvo dollars.
11. Neckar*s Treaiife on tbe importance »J reli
nous opinions. Price four fifths oj a
12 Examination of the objervations oj Lord bhc
field on American Commerce. Price, on very fine
paper, five eighths «/ a dollar.
j 3. lie Conjlituticvs of the federal United i>tates 1
with the federal CovJhtution, &c. Price ji v.
■ighths of a dollar.
14 M'Fingal, Price three eighths tf a dollar.
15. Jeit Rook, three fifths op a
iollsr.
16. Garden of the Soul, barf a dohar.
17. The Douay Tranption of the vulgate bi
'jle in quarto. Price, 'e.egantly found and lettered,
oofl- -piain, fix dollars.
.Vo.yca.ev has for file, a large afferent ,J
looks, Eurt'pean as -well as American editions,
win h he will dijpoje of on the ir-.0/lreaj nahie terms,
Country gentlemen, -who favor bnn with commands,
•nay depend upon being Jupphed in the vioft fatisjetc
■cry manner. A liberal allowance to fitb as pur
hafe quantities f*r pubtic libraries) or to Jell again.
May 17. 6m.ia.w.
Socicty fir ej}ablift>ins vfeful Manufactures,
V,- OTICE is hereby to the holders oj
„ ~k ithefaid iociet , that the following
arrangement lias Wen made by the Deputy Go
•rnor and Dire&ors thereof* by a lefolution o:
he eighteenth day of May, 179 2 ' . „
The lecond instalment far the payment of inares
in the (lock of this society, may be made in the
follow! -,g manner, viz.
The amount of the said second instalment, be
ing 20 1 5- 100 dollars each foare, may be paid in
three payments, on condition that tbe lawful in
terest of 7 per cent, per annum, be calculated
and paid with each proportionate pai t of the laid
payment, that is to fay, 011 or before the thu
;-enth djy of Augult next, the sum of 6 71-100,
.vith the addition of 12 cents, being the interelt
jf one month 0112013-100 dollars—on or be
fore the 13th of September next, the sum or 6
ii-joo dollars, with the addition of 8 cents, be
ing the interest for one n.onrh on 1; 42-100 dol
a —and on or before the 13th of Odtober next,
the sum 0! 6 71-100 do'hrs, with the addition o,
4 cents, beiiift the interest on the fame for on;
month. The said payments are to be made at th;
following places, vii. In the city of Philadelphia.
at the bank of the United States —at New-Brunf
wicli, in Nc.v-Jerley, to John Havard, or John
N-i.fon, Efoi>—and in the city of New-York, at
the bank ot* New-Yoik, or either of t'ne laid
places, which n'.ay b- molt convenient to tne
itock holders.
By order of the direction,
J AMIiS GRIFFITHS, Gleik.
July 24.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale by the Printer,
i 0 hn M'Culloch, at No, i . North Third-
Street, and by 1110 ft of the Book-
Sellers in this city,
(Pure 3/9)
MODERN CHIVALRY:
Containing the
Adventures of Capt. John Farrago,
and
Teague £)'Regan,
his Servant.
VOLUME 11.
Bv 11. H. BRACKENRIDGF.
Qukquid agtint Hmiatf, notln, Farrago libclli.
tjuvena).
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale at the Printing-OUice,
No. 209, Market-Street, .
and at Thomas Dobfon's Bouk-Sloreui
Second-Street,
Price Three-Eighths of a Dollar,
advice
TO THE
PRIVILEGED ORDERS,
in the
SEVERAL STATES of EUROPE,
Refiilting from the neceiHty and pro
priety of a General Revolution in
the Principle of Government.
BY Joel Barlow, Esquire.
Terres a Vendre
Dans un pa'is bien peuple',—
S AVOIR, foixante cinq mille, trois cens, foix
ante et quatoize Acres, en une femle piece,
dans le canton le mieux people de la Caroline Me
ridionals, le Difti i£t de Ninety 'Six* Ces terret
font ficuees dans une contree agreable, et lalubre,
ju les fievres fontinconnuesj a environ vingt lieues
de Colombie, la Capitaie, et contigu'e's ala vilje
de Cambridge, oa il y a College, et Cour fuperi
eure. A environ douze lieues, iJ y a bonne navi
gation jet il eft ires probable, que dans quelque
terns on rendra navigable le Grand Salude, riviere
qui arrofe les terres memes. Elles lont agreaule
rnent diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons charroan?,
propres a la culture du tabac, du coton, du mais,
etdu petic grain jet dont une proportion consider
able fe peu: aifement convertir en prairies fertiles.
Il n'eft peut-etre gueres pollible de rencontrer une
pareilie piece de terre a vendre dans aucun autre
ries Etats Unis ; et pour les conditions de l l achat >
on les rendra tres commodes.
S'informer a i'impjimerie de la Gazette Na
tional. Sept. 5-
LANDS for SALE,
a well fettled Country. SIXTY-FIVE
x THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY-FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in or.c
body, in the most populous part ot the ltate ot
South-Carolina, in the diftrifl of Nine:y-fix---It
s situated in a fine healthy climate,free from fever
5c ague,ab?ut lixty miles from Columbia, the feat
»f government. 'I he land is contiguous to the
rovvn of Cambridge, where are a seminary for the
nftiuition of youth, and a superior law court. It
s at prel'ent within about thirty-five miles of good
navigation, wiih a probability of having the river,
:alied the Great Saluoa, that flaws along one fide
if the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
fully diverlifi-d into swells and vales, and is per
i'efily well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
rotton, Indian com, and finall grain j a great
proportion ef it may be made meadow ground.
Theie is not, perhaps, such a body of land, focii
umftanced, for file in any other of the U; S.ates.
The terms of payment will be made convenient to
the purchaser or pu;chai':is. Apply to the Printer.
August 29. lawtf
To be publijhed by 9mbfcription,
THE
AME RIC AN RE MEJvIBR ANCER,
OR
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Old
From -September 1774, to March 1759 —an au
thentic and original collection oi'
Official l£c,itcr4 Sfc.
Written during the late war ; —and Ex>«
tra&s fro n the
ilfecret "Jfournald.
[For particulars, fee the Propojals <rt large.]
Subscriptions are received by the principal
booksellers, and by the Editor,
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Street, Phila
delphia.
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. Oswalu,
(Price Eleven Pence) J
FIVE LETTER S,
addrefled to the
Yeomanry of the United States:
CONTAINING some Observations on the
Scheme of Governor Du*r and Mr Secreta
ry Hamilton, to eftab ifll N iti >nal Manufactures ,
iv a FARMER. so hij'V-v io
.erefting at this period, ma - b- had at the follow.
n«pl<C'-s: at Mr. OfwaU's T in ting-Office, No
1 56, Ma'ket-ftreet; atNo ion, Marltet-ftreet;
at Mr. Dobfon's, 41, Si i':i > ncond-ftreet 5 at
Mr. Crukfhanks, 91, Marliet-ftreet; at Mr,
<iitken's, 22, Marker-street; rnd at Mr. Young' 4
S. W. c ner of Chefnat and j
August 21.
' PR JNTED BY
CHI LD S AND SW AIN E,
AT THEIR OFFICE HQ. HIGH-STREET
Jit AR FIFTH ' ' r.'iT,
ADEL PKILPHIAi