, r X. W A U
\/ jjy (y
Vol. I.
A u S TRIAN MANIFESTO.
Published by the Governors General of
the Low Countries.
[Continuedfrom our lajl and cmcluded.~]
'"THHESE measures, which France
X seems now to have forgotten,
were quoted to the princes of the Empire
aa an example propsr for them to imitate
in the refpe&ive dates, and with which
the despotic agents of the French Go
vernment would be fatisficd.
"We (hall avoid taking notice of all the
calamities with which France is affliSed,
we (hould leave to time the disclosure of
the machinations perpetually recommend
ed by a set of inlidio writers in their
dangerous publications, were it not evident
that, at the moment of the intended ag
grefiion against thef>- provinces, a refolu
tion is taken to spread the poison of a
fedu&ive illufiou on the pretended advan
tages of the French constitution, with a
view to make those partakers of it who
may be deluded by th s means ; but it is
neceflary that the people who are confided
to our governm nt be reminded and in
formed that the kingdom of Prance groans
at this time, in the name of liberty,
under the moil hateful slavery, every fpe
cies of vii-e, of the mod unbridled palfions,
and of a species of anarchy which is with
out example ; that rights and proper )'
are abolished ; that the ho'.y religion
wiiich we profefs is there trodden under
foot; that altais are profaned and pollu
ted ; that theirtrue minffters are deprved
of their just rights, ill treated, persecuted
even in their retreats among foreign nati
ons and replaced by intruders wiio have
no million from the hierarchy ot the
church ; that the pastors of the people
have even been deprived of the diftiu&ive
vestments by which they v/ere known to
their flocks ; that in a mondroti3 code,
rights liave been extolled which man can
not er.joy in society, and which he tacitly
renounces,bybeing born in civilized aflocia
tions ; that purluant to those chimerical
rights, attempi s have been made to abo
lilh, overturn, and confound those real
rights which have been tranfmit'ed under
the piote&ion of the fundamental laws of
the kingdom, from. generation to gene
ration, to those venerable classes to which
the French nation had in every refpedt,
the higlieft obligations; that real proper
ty has given way to the name by seizing
the eflates of thote w' o had been solemn
ly in«eded with them by time, by the
laws, ?nd by an uninterrupted polfef
fion a hundred times renewed and c n
firmed by the true representatives of the
ration ; and all this under the deceitfu.
colour of an equality of chimerical rights
not existing in fact, and annihilated, if it
could for a moo ent exid, by that variety
of chara&er, imprefTed 011 all mankind at
their birth, by which they share, in very
unequal proportions, moral faculties, the
very disproportion of which has always de
termined and will ever determine the as
cendancy of genius, strength, patience,
industry, and economy, over,the opposite
qualities, to .ether with all the advantages
which may lawfully arise from them, and
which maybe transferred like every other
species of property.
" Finally, it is nectfTa y that the faith
ful ful jetts of his majelty be informed
that, whilst pains are taken to extol the
pretended and profp rity of the
kingdom of France, lately the mod flou
rifiling in Europe, then is now no com
merce, no circulation of specie or goods,
no public force, nqjuftice, no police, and
that the philosophical persecutors of all
those who are not of their fed, know 110
bound* to their txcefles, which they ex
cite their people to commit,except a satie
ty of crimes.
'•Who after this, eould be so blind or
fiupid as to place the lead confidence in
the promises atid in the insidious afiuran
ces ma e by these tyrants to those nations
whom tliey wifti to iubdue, that they will |
By P. F R E N EA U : Publified. Wednesdays aid Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
i refpeft their property, their religion,
their rights, theii privileges, and their
conflitution ?—Tyrants, who, since they
have usurped the public pawer and fore?
in France, have trodden under foot,
w.th an efFro'ntery and audacity hit'.ierto
unheard of the mod foleinn public trea
ties, all "rights human and divine, and-eve
ry tiling which is he Id molt sacred over
all the world ; who, the moment they
should ("iccomethe maltera of one province,
would seize, as they have in their own
country, the estates of the clergy and the
nobility, and the property of the citizens
"Once more, having never had anv
inclination to meddle with the internal go
vernment »of any neighbouring state, we
should not have entered onthele affliiting
details, relative to objects which are fo
reign to the government with which we
arc entrusted, were it not that French v. ri
tings and French emiflaries, and even the
recent a&s of the new Legislature of
Franc: Have a tendency ro render iiniverfal
a fyflerii of innovation whether good or
bad for the French nation, certainly and
decidedly ruinous to the people under our
government ; because it is fubverlive o
all that political' organization delineated
by a conititution which fhey love, which
the sovereign has engaged to maintain, and
on which the happinci's of Belgium has for
ages been founded.
"It was our duty to warn the'people
of th;- imminent dangers with which they
arethreatened. We have laid before them
truths which all well meaning persons will
acknowledge tn be striking, and they wil
of course, uie tiieir utmoll endeavours to
maintain pcace and public tranquility
within these provinces, and we shall con
iider those as enemies to the State, and
treat them as such, who {hall attempt tc
diPiV.rb 'hem.
(Signed) "Marle Albert.
(Counter Signed) Baron de Fbliz.'
FOREIGN f-J E W S.
Extraas from French.Papers, to May 18.
Paris, May 15.
The season of inconsiderate rashness is
past. Concealing from the nation its re
al situation would now be the height oi
treason, and encouraging it to go forward
when on the brink of a precipice. The
real enemies of the people are those who
deceive by flattering them: their true
friends are those, who discover to them the
nature and tendency of their disease, and
(how them how to apply the remedy. It
is time that the people knew how to f.irm
a real opinion of ministers, clubs, fa&ious
and perverie writers, who would risque the
fafety of the kingdom, and the success of
the revolution upon a sudden and ill ad
vised war. We can no longer doubt that
the army of M. de la Fayette, instead of
marching to attack the enemy's country,
is absolutely destitute of every thing, and
that the division of ins army, encamped
at Tiercelet, was compelled to return to
its quarters, without powder, ball, field
pieces or artillery-men, ,
Madrid, April 25.
" It may be set down es a certainty
that Spain will not join the enemies of
France in any war agair.ft her. As to
the Swiss regiments which were to have
been taken into the pay of Spain, the new
minister has declared them unneccfTary,
and has given orders to break off all ne
gociation on this fubjeft. It may be pro
per to 1 etnark that the court of Spain was
in this temper previous to the news arriv
ing of the aifaflination of the king of
Sweden. This base action, which is evi
dently the work of a Swedish ariltocracy,
has confounded the French emigrants
her who hare for some days ccafed to
ding in our ears, that "a nobility is th_
support of a throne," and that " without
nobility there can be no monarchy," and
a thousand other similar absurdities which
modern history confutes in every
We persuade ourselves here that if France
is obliged to go to war, (he will only have
|to oppose the Auflro-Prulfidn league. In
SA T U RD A Y July 21, 1792.
rue of the family compa£t she can de
d from Spain both troops nnd a ma
r ; force. The attachment of Spain to
1 ranee may beconfklered as firm as ever,
now that they have a great and good
:haracler at the liead of their government,
nhofe plana are pacific In short, the
Count d'Aranda is too well informed of
t:.-; adtual Hate of France, not to know
that the peace of Spain depends upon an
knowledgnScnt of, and support of the
'>«• v of France."
Rome, April 20.
" His- holincfs the Pope lias some time
nice undertaken to drain the marshes of
Pofltini. Although, in ballads, they
praise him for having succeeded in an at
: inpt which b:ifiled the wealth and ing;-
mity of the ancient Romans, yet the work
■ 110 farther advanced than to render the
'[•fian way practicable, which has been
! 1; many years, in places, covered with
1 ater. To complete the work, 40 mil
■•vis i ore are wanting, as well as at least
; uo.oo persons, of a very different defcrip
>ll from the beggars and fiuggards that
j c now employed. If indulgences had the
1 .ne credit now as formerly, it would be
good method, and a cheap one, to for
ard the undertaking "
April 21. " The holy office of the
1 quifition continues very severe against
tie French fettled, and coming here. In
c infeqtfcnce of its rigour they are every
ly leaving Rom-.-, and in a short time
t lere will only be tliofe here whose arif
t lcratic principles prevent suspicion.—
1 lie pretence for profotibing the patriotic
I rench is, that they are no other than
m.flionaries of French revolution princi
pies. People of underllanding, however,
are convinced that the patriotic principles
. tiie French will difTeminate impercepti
bly. I hey are so general, so congenial
with human reason, of a tendency so be
nevolent to the human race, that their uni
versal adoption depends neither upon age,
nor clime, nor prejudice. If the French
tongue is universally spoken and under
stood through Europe, is that the fault
of the French ? Mult they either be fi
ient, or speak a langu ge different from
their own—Mud they not build up their
own houses, now tottering in ruins, for
fear their neighbours fliould take the hint
and build up theirs also ?—lf there is any
t.i£t in the world clear and evident, it is
this, that in every country governments
are the sworn enemies of liberty. The
love of liberty, however, is so natural to
mankind that the Declaration of his Rights
by such a nation as France will surmount
.ill obflacles, and will extend throughout
the world without the intervention of
ngents and missionaries, which have ever
been neceflary to the caufc of despotism
and superstition."
Turin, April 30.
At no period has the king of Sardinia
been more ptofufe of titles than at the
prcfent. The titles of count, marquis,
crofles of St. Maurice, &c. See. are la
vished upon the moll contemptible cha
racters. It is commonly said here, that
his raajefty is determined to annihilate
nobility by making it universal : but the
true cause is the fear of increasing the de
ficiency in the revenue. As his majefly
has not wherewithal to recsmpenfe every
deserving man that asks a pension, he in
lieu thereof gives him titles and crosses.
An application to the folly of mankind
for the payment of debts, is a good con
ceit enough, but is by no means an inex
h?.tiflible fund. Honours bellowed in
discriminately lose their effect, and cease
(o be a diftindlion. The order of St.
Maurice is so common here, that almofl
every man you meet might be fafely ac
costed, Sir Knight. In a short time it
will be as common as the Older of St. John
de Lateran at Rome, which may be pur
chased for a single sequin (2 dollars.)
Paris, April 26-
Lately among the petitioners at the bar
of the National AfTeinbly appeared a lady,
Numb. 76.
who obtained peimifiiun to addrels Uie a'"
fembly on the ful jeiSl of natu-nl bora
children inheriting the estates of their
fathers and mothers. In the course of
her speech this eloquent lady (Madame
Grandval) examined the principles of na
tural and civil right, brought into view
the authority of ancient and modern fiif
:ory, and left no rccord untouched that
:ould throw a favorable light upon the
:*nfe of the wretched yifttais vvhofe ds
'-•nee 111/.: had undertake i. " Our ancient
awgivers (fays her petition) would not
fieri aps havfc been so severe n this mat
:er, had not the unavoidable uncertainty
>f fathers urged them to be so But the
Liacertainty exists not with refpeft to the
mother ; and it is with renfon some have
[aid no one is a bajlard l>y bis mother's fide.
Justice therefore demands that a general
aw fkould be passed in favour of bastards.
Let them at lead be lawful heirs to their
mothers'property, if the father cannot be
discovered. Those whom an inconiider
*te moment led aflray, will by this means
be encouraged to look up in society, and,
by adopting good morals themselves, ne
:effariiy infi.il tli ;m them into their ch 1-
iren, Hence, too, these hitherto wretch
ed outcasts will have a chance of some
education, and society may derive benef-.t
from characters who have hitherto been
:ontidered as 101 l to their counry."
NaplEs, April 15.
" There is -much talk here, of four
French emigrants, who are come to pay a
viiit to Mefdumes, the French kir. -'s
Hunts, now resident in this city, in a pa
lace they have hired. The moment theft:
ariftocratical rrentlemen were introduced,
the princtffes salute 1 them, fliedding tears
of joy on the occasion. Indeed tliere is
no doubt, they are four of the linccreit
friends the princefTes have in the woild,
and everybody, without exc. ption, speaks
well of thern. r i hefe emigrants arc no
other than four large dogs which, r:s be
tng particular favorites the ladies have had
brought from Versailles, to help pass away
the tedious hours during their reiidence in
Home, and at Naples.
" Events that hive recently taken place
in Rome, have an illafpeft for agovernment
such as theirs, the reins of which are n?tu
raliy weak. The precautions taken to
prevent mifchicf, seem to have a contrary
effect. The peop'e, notwithllanding their
profound ignorance, have an evident incli
nation towards republican government,
and there are not wanting thofc who will
tempt them to revolt, by holding up the
idea that they are soon to be fubjeft'jd to
power, absolute and despotic. A ferment
of minds and diLontent is therefore be
coming more and more ripe, in eve y pro
vince of the ecclesiastic (late. News is jail
come in that the people have lifen and
thrown into a well the prelatic-j'overiior
of a town in the neighbourhood of Rome.
It were to be wi(hed, there may not be a
general infurredlion. As the people are
armed, and naturally ferocious, terrible ex
amples would be made, no doubt, and the
rivers be tinged with blood. The opini
on of the populace, that they are the deP.
cendents of the old Romans, feem3 to
inflame their indignation ; and there is
nothing wanting but some Rienzi to de
clare himfelf tribune of the people, lead
them to the capitol, and the papal govern
ment would in a very lhort time fall to the
ground.
Paris, May 2.
The corporations known in France un
der the name of fecular-eccleliallic con
gregations, such as Priests of the Oratory,
of Jelus, of Chrittian doftrihe, Million of
France and Saint.Lazarus, the Eudifts,
the order of St. Joseph, of Saint Sulpi
cius, and a thousand others are now en
tirely ex tin ft and suppressed. Even the
society of brother-taylors and bi other flioe
jnakers, as well as the various focteties of
religious fitters are annihilated, so that the
shadow of incorporated bodicj an »
kind will not remain in France.HagU?., April 30.
" A cordon of troops are ordered to
cover our frontier on the fide of Leige.
Several regiments are already on their
march for Venloo, Maellrecht, and the
country round about. The discontents
as well as the number of the patriots are
i.icreafing every day ; and the recent ex
ample of the king of Sweden will fhevv to
what enormities men will proceed when
rendered desperate. Both the Stadthol
der and his wife are ardently desirous of a
reconciliation with the patriots ; aud for
this purpose a general amneily has been
published, the prerogatives of the Stadt
liolder are abridged, and the orange cock
ades as well as all other external marks of
party, be they what they may. It is ea
sy to fee, however, that this will not fatis
fy. The patriots are too much galled by
a variety of unjust procedures againit
them, to give into any partial arrange
ments in their favour. Real liberty is
what they want, and not trifling palliative
conci-ffions, which cannot heal an inveter
ate disease-—besides, they lay, an amnesty,
or general pardon, implies criminality ;wi h
which they declare themf Ives not charge
able,and therefore refufe to accept it.
A Society entitled the Friends of thepeo
pie, associated tor the purpose of obtain
ing a parliamentary reform, held their
firlt general meeting at the Freemafoits
Tavern, London, the 26th April, 1792,
and have published a declaration and
address of which the following are co
pies.
DECLARATION.
" A number of persons have seriously
reviewed and considered the actual fituati
©n of public affairs, and Hate of the king
dom, and having communicated to each
other their opinions on these fubje£ts, have
agreed and determined to institute a So
ciety for the purpose of propoling to Par
liament and to the country, and of ■pro
moting, to the utmost of their power, the
following conflitutional objects, making
the preservation of the cor.ftitution, on its
true principles, the foundation of all their
proceedings.
First.—" To restore the freedom of
election, and a more equal reprefentaiion
of the people in pailiametit.
Secondly.—" To secure to the people
a more frequent exercise of their right ior
ele£ting their repi efentatives.
'• The persons who have signed their
names to th'S agreement, think that these
two fundamental measures will furnifh the
power and the means of correcting the
abuses, which appear to them to have ari
sen from a negleift of the acknowledged
principles of the conllitution, and of ac
complishing those iubordinate objects of
reform which they deem to be essential to
the libert-'cs of the people, andtothegooJ
government of the kingdom."
Address to the People of Great Britain.
No man, who is not ready to express
his concurrence in our principles, by sign
ing the Declaration, cm be admkted into
our society. The objects of it, as we c n
ceive, are of a nature at all times lit to be
pursued and recommended to the country.
At different periods they have heretofore
been avowed and supported by the high
est authorities in the kingdom ; by emi
iient individuals ; and considerable bodies
of men ; by Mr. Locke and Judge Black
ftone, by the late Earl of Chatham, and
Sir George Seville; by the Duke of
Richmond,the Marquis of Lanfdown,Mr.
Fitt,and Mr Fox ; by petitions from sev
eral counties and by repeated declarations
from the city of London.
In appealing to the avowed opinions of
men of established reputation, or of distin
guished r.ink in this country, we do not
mean to llrengthen the reason, or enforce
the nece iTity of the measure we propose,
so much as to obviate all personal imputa
tions, which the enemies of the cause will
be ready to throw upon those who sup
port it. It. is not that, on our account,
we dread the effect, or regard the impres
sion which such imputations mayproduce
But we think it material to the credit and
success of our proceedings, to fliew that
we are not a miTig at reform unthought of
by wife and virtuous men—that our opi
nions neither possess the advantage, nor
are liable to the objection of novelty, and
that we cannot be accused or fufpedted of
faitious purposes, or dangerous designs,
without extending the fame accusation or
fupicion to the motives of men, whose G
tuation and property, independent of their
chara£ter, principles, and abilities, have
given tliem a molt important flake in the
peace and good government of the king
dom.
Convinced by our own reflections, by
experience, and by- authority, that the
thing we propose to do is fit to be done,
we have with equal deliberation, weighed
the reasons that may recommend, or
be obje&ed, to the present time, as llie
mod or lead proper for bringing it for
ward. On this point we have no addrl's
to make to the determined enemies ofla
reform of every kind. Their obje&idL
whether valid or not, is to the fubflance»f
the measure, and cannot be abated by cir
cumflances. To those, who concur gen
erally in the principle, but who maybe in
clined by particular reasons, to defer the
attempt, we seriously wish to submit the
following conliderations : That admitting
be a season of general tranquility in
the country, it is, on that account, the
more proper for temperate refledtion, and
prudent exertions to accomplish any ne
ceflary improvement ; it is the time wlten
pradticalmeafures Lr that purpose are mod
likely to be adopted with discretion and
pursued with moderation. If we are per
suaded to wait for other times of a different
complexion—tor times of public complaint,
or general discontent, we (hall then be to'd,
that general remedies are not fit to be pro
ofed in the moment of particular disorder-,
an 1 that it is our duty to wait for the re
turn of quiet days, unltfs we mean to clp
ate or tncreafe confufion in the county.
The result of this dilemma, if it be fuffeijd
to prevail, is pure and absolute inaftivMy
at present, and forever. On the otljjr
hand, if it be true, as we are convinceapt
is, that, in this general appearance of tran
quillity, there is some mixture of discon
tent, as well as of drongand well-grounded
opinion, 011 the fubjedt of abuses in the
Government, and corruptions of the Con
(litution, we wish it to be considered by
men, v hose judgment has been formed or
enlightened by experience, and whose ac
tions are mod likely to be directed by pru
dence, whether in taking proper meafurea
Lo remove the cause and objedls of such
discontent and opinion, the choice of the
time be not a material part of the measure ;
and whether the earliest time that can be
taken, for preventing the encreafe of an
exilting evil, be not the fafeft and the bed :
The example and iituation of another
kingdom are he'd out to deter us from in
novations of any kind. We fay that the
reforms we have in view are not innova
tions. Our intention is not to change,
but to redore ; not to displace, but to re
inflate the conllitution upon its true prin
ciples and oiiginal ground. In the con
duct of ptrfons mod likely to reproach us
with a spirit of innovation, we fee a solid
ground for retorting the imputation.—
Their profeffions of admiration of the
beauty and of zeal for the security of the
conflitution, appear to us too lavish to be
iincere, especially when compared with
those practical violations, with which they
fuffer tliia beautiful fyflem to be invaded,
and to which they never refufe to give
their concurrence. They will not inno
vate, but they are no enemies to gradual
decay ; as if the changes insensibly pro
duced by time, and nourished by negledt,
were not in effedt the mod dangerous in
novations. But what security have we
that the dispositions of such men are not
something worse than passive ? How are
we assured that, in praiiing the conflitu
tion, their intention is not to adorn a vic
tim, which they wish to facrificc, or to
flatter the beauty endeavoring to
corrupt .' Let their intention be what it
may, we answer their accusations in the
words of one of the wised of mankind ;
*" that time is the greatcjl innovator ; and
if time of course alter things to the worse, and
if wisdom and counsel shall not alter them
to the better, what shall be the end."
By the reform proposed by lord Chat
ham, he declared in the House of Lords,
that he meant to infufe a portion of new
health into the conjlitution. The Duke of
Richmond has declared, $ "that his reasons
in favor of a parliamentary refoim were
formed on the experience of twenty-fix
years, which, whether in or out of go
vernment, had equally convinced him, that
the reparation of a genuine House of Commons
by a renovation of the rights of the people,
was the only remedy againjl that fyfiem tj
corruption, which had brought the nation to
disgrace and poverty, and threatened it with
the loft of liberty
* Lord Bacon
$ Jan. 1783.
Other authorities in favour of a parliamen
tary reform, as dire£l aad explicit as these:,
might be quoted in abundance. The public
ispoffeffed of them. We rather wish to en
counter, because we are sure we can efface,
in every rational mind, the impression
which may have been made by a view of
those events which have attended .1 total
reform in the conllitution of France.
deny the ex'tjience of any rrftmblance whatever
between the cases, of the two kingdoms : and
<we utterly disclaim the neccjfity of resorting to
similar remedies. We do not believe that,
at this day, an absolute avowed despotism
in the hands of the executive power would
be endured in this country. But who can
fay to what conclusion the silent unrefifled
operation of abuses incessantly adling and
constantly increasing may lead us hereaf
ter ; what habits it mny gradually create ;
what power it may finally eflablifh ? The
abuses in the government of France were
fuffered to gather and accumulate, until
nothing but an eruption could put an end
to them. The discontent of the people
was converted into despair. Preventive
remedies were either not thought of in
time, or were not pro|;ofed until it was
too late to apply them with effedt. The
fubveriion of the ancient government en
sued. The inference from this coinpari
fon is at once so powerful and so obviou;,
that we know not by what argument to
illuflrate or enforce it. We mean to avert
forever from our country the calamities
inseparable from ftich convullions. If there
be,as it is said, in any part oi thiskingdom.
a disposition to promote confulion, 01
even to arrive at improvement by uncon
stitutional and irregular courses, we hold
ourselves as flridlly pledged to refill thai
disposition wherever it may appear, as tc
pursue our own unexceptionable
methods. If, on the contrary, it be true,
that the mass of the people are fatisfied
with the present state of tilings, or indiffe
rent about it; if they approve of the re
presentation as it Hands, the form of elec
tion, and the duration of the trull; or if,
condemning these things, they are deter
mined, from indolence or despair, not tc
attempt to corredl them ; then indeed
the effoits of individuals may bt inef
fedlual, but they cannot be injurious
to the peace of the community. If th<
spirit of the conlli'ution be dead in the
hearts of the people, no human indi'.flry
can revive it. To affirm that extenfivc
mifchief may be done by a flatement oi
fails or arguments, which make no gene
ral impiCilion on the public mind, is s
proportion that ccntradidls itfelf, and re
quires no other refutation. We trull it
will be proved by experiment, that these
incoiilHlent affert.or.G are equally Unsound
ed, and that the peop'e of this countiy
are no more disposed to submit to abuses
without complaint, than to look for re
dress in any proceedings repugnant to the
laws, or unwarranted by the conflitution.
Between anarchy and despotism, fpeakine
for ourselves, we have no choice to make :
we have no preference to give. We neithei
admit the neeeffity, nor can we endure the
idea of resorting to either of these extre
mines as a refuge from the other. The
course we are determined to pursue, is
Equally distant from both.
Finally we assert, that it mull be blind
ness not to fee, and treachery not to ac
knowledge,
That " J the inflruments of power are
not so open and avowed as they formerly
were, and therefore the less liable to jea
lous and invidious reflections ; but they
ire not the weaker upon that account. In
Tiort, our national debts and taxes have,
p. their natural consequences, thrown such
i weight of power into the executive scale
)f government, as we cannot think was
ntended by our patriot anceflors, who
jlorioufly ilruggled for the abolition of
lie then formidable parts of the preroga
ive, and by an unaccountable want of
"orefight eflablifhed this system in their
lead." Our general objedt is to recover
and preserve the true balance of the con
llitution.
Thise are the principles of our
association, and on our Heady adhe
rence to them, we look with a juil confi
dence to the approbation and support of
the people in the prosecution of our ob
jedl. A measure so likely to be opposed
by the united flrength of various interests,
can never succeed the declared and hear
ty concurrence of the nation.
RESOLVED UNANIMOUSLY,
That a motion be made in the House
of Common's, at an early period in the
J Blackftons
next ftflion of Parliament, for introduc
ing a PARLIAMENTARY REFORM.
RESOLVED UNANIMOUSLY,
ThatCHALES GREY, Esq. be re
quelled to make, and the Hon. THO
MAS ERSKINE. to second the abova
motion.
Signed by unanimous order of the
Meeting,
W. H. LAMBTON. Chairman .
\_The above was ftgned by twenty-tzuo
members of parliament, and a great number
of the mofl refpeSable names in the kingdom.']
[From the spirit and tenor'of the above
address, it is moll prelumeable (fays a cor
respondent) that the late proclamation of
the British king, againll what art termed
seditious publications and afiaciations, is not
the less pointed at the friends of the people,
and other societies now forming in Eng
and, for obtaining a reform in parliament,
than the order of the king, in council, for
an encampment on BagQiot-heath of an
army of seven or eight thousand men, to
commence on the iirfl. of July (in(lant)
and terminate on the sixteenth of the
fame month, alTuredly is, to overawe
that riling spirit of revolution, which go
vernment thus obviou/ly betrays its fears
will manifeft itfejf throughout England,
on th; commemoration of the anniverfarie*
of the great and glorious revolutions of
America and France ou the 4th and 14th
of that month.] ,
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Mit. Freneau,
IGNORANCE is the only cause of the
misery and opprcflion of mankind : ty
rants are so fem'ible of this, that they pro
hibit all talking, writing, and even think
ing on fubje&s calculatcd to inftru£t the
minds of the people—at the dawn of the
present glorious revolution in France, po
litical clubs frequently met at the coffee
houfes ; the king issued an edict prohibiting
such meetings---The kings of Europe are
at this moment uling every effort to pre
vent, their fubjefts from investigating the
principles of religioiyor government : And
a junto of American ariftocitits, influenced
by the fame spirit, arepurfuing similar mea
sures. A venal press, considered as a ne
cefl'ary appendage to the general govern
ment, is constantly employed in bellowing
fulfonie commendations on the molt unwar
rantable aits of government; anc! in ab uling
those free citizenswho presume to come for
ward with their opinions on public measures.
But the friends if mankind are not discouraged.
At a time when the light of the French re
volution is procuring ihe rights of man to
the long opprefled people of Europe, Ame
rican citizens certainly will not facrifice
their acquired rights to an ambitious and
avaricious junto, who have tlic vanity to
measure the prosperity of our country not
by the general ease andhappinefs of the peo
ple, but by the palaces, funiptuous fearts,
md parade of the well-born few, supported
jy the plunder of their fellow citizens.
17- BRUTUS.
PHIL ADELP II I A.
July 21, 1793. ».
The spirit of party fn New-York, ref
pefting the late ele&ion for Governor of
the State, is said to have risen to such a
height as to occasion several duels. A
mongll these, Col. Marinua Willett, and
Wihiam Wilcocks, Esq. had a meeting,
ind exchanged a few (hots; but their
friends interfering, prevented any bad con
iequences. Col. Willett is friendly to Gov.
CJlinton's election, which is opposed by
Mr. Wilcocks.
The Rev. Mr. Thayer, Catholic Mifli
anary at Boston, has challenged John Gar
diner, Esq. of the Hate of Malhichufetts,
to a theological disputation, iu public, on
the truth of certain do&rinal tenets of the
Romish Church, such as tranfubllantiaticn,
purgatory, &c. —Mr. Gardiner having as«
lerted the whole to be unintelligible non
sense.
According to the Albany Gazette, a
deputation from the Chiefs of the Five
Nations are on their way to the Miami
village, where a treaty is ihortly to be held
by the hoftilc Indians. This deputation
13 feut under the direction of the Super
intendant of Indian Affairs, and charged
with a message from the executive of the
United States to the said Indians, demand
ing a ceiTation of hostilities until measures
can be taken to bring about a general trea
ty of peace.
The fame Gazette fays, " Capt. Jofepli
Brandt returned through the city of Alba
ny on the 6th inltant, from his vilit to the
President of the United States. Capt.
Brandt has exprelTed himfelf much pleased
with the reception he met with from thePresident, and the polite treatment he has
received during his whole tour. We are
informed that his belt endeavours will be
uf*_d to establish a treaty of frienddiip be
tween the United states and the present
hostile ttibes of Indians; and thai it is
more than probable, on his return home,
he will immediately let off for the Miami
village. 3 '
George Clinton, Esquire, on the 3d inft.
was qualified into oltics as Governor of the
state of New-York ; and the day follow
ing was ele&ed P elidept of the Society of
the Cincinnati of that state.
It is mentioned in a Salem paper, (M.)
that a superb plan of a rapitol has been
forwarded to the commiffi >ners of the fe
deral buildings in the city of Walhington,
by, an eminent artiftj relident in Salem.—
Also, that the ingenious Mr. Perkins, of
Newburyport, has been fer.t for, from this
city, to execute the coinage of the United
States.
The annivtrfary of the French revolu
tion was celebrated on Saturday last, in
N*v- York, by the Tammany Society. A
number of respectable French gentlemen
attended, upon invitation, and made a
liandfome address to the Grand Sachem
of the focicty, which was lultably replied
to. An elegant collation was soon after
prepared, at which leventeen loalts were
drank, highly exprefTive of the part each
nation took in commemorating their re
fpedtive revolut oris.
An address appears in a Be'fait (Irish)
paper, addressed to the people of Ciller
representing to them in a strong iight the
miserable litnation they are actually in,
their Hill worse projects if they remain,
and advice to emigrate to the forelts of
America, rather than exitt in a country
where the itrong arm of power cru'lies the
inhabitant to the dust, without hope or
remedy. It isfaid, tl.at in consequence of
this address, and ther incitements, a large
emigrati n to these coasts will f.ion take
place. Sincerely it is to be hoped that
the wisdom of our government will so
compromise matters with the Indian tribes
as to give thef foreigners af<. e afyluin in
the wel'ern woods ; hat in flying from
the sceptre of tyranny, they may not fall
vidtims to the scalping knives of the irri
tated, uninformed savages.
The anniversary of American Indepen
dence has been celebrated far and wide by
the si iends of America tind republican go
vernment —The r 4th of July, as far as we
have yet heard, has been the obj Ct of al
mod equal attention by the patriots of
America, and will no doubt in future be
considered as our second day of eminence
in the calendar of Liber'y.
A paper mak r of uote in England
has discovered a cticmical process, which
renders paper, made of any rags whatever,
as white as those made of the iineft kind.
This discovery at once cheapens paper 25
per cent. This is mentioned in all the
London papers we have l'ecn, as a fadt.
The Fourth of July having turned out
to be a rainy day at Cariifle, tin- inhabi
tants put off the celebration of the glori
ous event Independence, to the Jth,
which perfedtly answered their expedta
tions. From this example it would seem
proper i 1 future to " Indepen
dence to be celebrated on the fourth of
July, or, if bad weather, the next fair
day after."
If peace with the Indians can now be
accomplished upon moderate terms, (as is
intimated in the Ccntinel) after theirfuc
cess, it i< a proof of the inexpediency of the
Indian war. It shews that pence or war,
is within a /mail circle, and that a few in
dividua/s can deci 'e on this business, as it
fui.s their convenience. It is fufpefted,
that certain characters, finding that the
•war department arrests the attention of the
public,, arc now closing the fcenc, and pre
senting a thorough invejiigation, by
holding up the pro'pedts of peace.—But
it is hoped that Congress, when adting
on the report of their committee, will
adhere to the dodtrine of responsibility,
which has been made the plea' for high
salaries, &c —and bring every man who
has been blameable in this difgraceful bu
siness, so answer for the blood fpiiled, and
the money expended.
\_BoJl. Ind. Citron.J
There is a degree of refpedt due to every
government which a rational man will
never lose fight of, and will carefu'.ly pre
serve in his words and adtions as well as in
his ftridtures and reflections upon its faults
and abuses. i'ruth offered with decency
ought never to offend, and however defi
cient a country may be in men who are
not afraid to tell the ruling powers the
trutit seems to be proved from con-
Rant experience that they will never want
tor flatterers aad universal admirers :
" We're oft to blame in this
('Tis too much prov'd) that with devo
tion's visage,
Ami pious actions, we do sugar o'er
The Devil himfelf."
On Thursday, July 5, the Brig Charles
ton, Capt. Garman, on her pafiage from
this port to Cnarlefton, and within one
day's fail of the bar, was struck with light
ning. Both malls were struck, but the
foremaft and its topmalls fuffered moll.
A horse on deck was killed. The mate
and several of the hands were knocked
down, and remained lifelefs for some time;
and Mr. William P. Young, paflenger on
board, lay a confulerable time deprived of
his senses, and very much scorched and
othervvife hurt. The shock was so great,
that the brig, altho' going at the rate of
five or fix knots, was totally (lopped, and
continued motionless fome:ime.—lt is
iomewhat fur-prizing that so little atten
tion should be paid to arm veflels with
lightning-rods, to prevent mifchiefs of this
kind. They might be put on and taken
off at pleasure, with very little trouble.
On the 16th in ft. a large number of
patriotic citizens met at Corre's hotel,
New-York, and pa.Ted a number of reso
lutions, expreffivc of their sense of the
legality of Mr. Clinton's eledtion to tie
office of firlt magistrate of chat State,
and their determination to support him if
necellary i.i difchargi.ng the duties of his
office.—At this nuetingit was iefolved
that " a circular letter be addieffed to the
iree and iudtp ndent ele&ors of the seve
ral counties o; thi llate, earnestly recom
mending to them, to preserve the peace
and tranqti lity of the community, and to
adopt relolutions expressing their fenle of
the violent meaf ires, which are now pur
suing by a certain party, to obtain rcdrefs
for a pretended injury committed on the
rights of tlu* people." Seventy-two ref
pe&able gentlemen of the city were ap
pointed a committee for this purpose.-—
On the 18th, pursuant to the resolutions,
several of the committee, accompanied by
a very large number of their fellow-citi
zens, waited on the Governor a: the go
vernment-house, and presented him n
address, congratulatin him on his re-elec
tion, regretting the inflammatory measures
pursuing by a party in the llate, promif-i
ing every affiilance in supporting the
constitution and laws of the country, &c.,
&c.—The Governor returned a pulite an
swer to their address—and afterwards
favoured above one hundred gentlemen
with his company at a public dinner at
Corre's hotel, when fifteen patriotic toalls
wer« drank, excluiive of Gov. Clinton's,
whicii was, The republican intercfl through -
out the Union.
Extract of a letter from New York, July 13.
It has been ailerted thai, " if all the
votes had been canvass d, governor
Clinton would have had a larger majority
than he now has:" the following (late
ment will flievv that this aflertion is un
founded. Mr. Clinton had votes 101 l and
destroyed, in Richmond 81—New-Corn
wall 177 —Jerusalem 11 —Clinton 20 —
in all 2 89; to which add 108, the num
berby vvhichMr.Clin on was declared,and
the lum is 397. Mr. Jay had votes loft
or dellroyed, in North Salem 40 —-in New
Paltz 15 —in Peterborough 49 —in Ge
ntfee 19 —in Tioga 100 —an,d in Otfego
700 —in all 923, from which dedudt Go
vernor Clinton's 39 , and the remainder
is 526, the majority for Mr. Jay. In
this statement, the majority in the several
places is alone estimated."
On Thuriday evening a num'-.er of ci
tizens met at the state house, pursuant to
notice given, for the puipofe of confi
dering on the proper means of forming a
ticket for representatives in Congress, and
eledlors of President and Vice-President
of the United States. On motion, the
meeting was adjourned to the 25th, at 7
in the evening.
*»* MARRIED at Middletown Point, in
Monmouth county, Eafl-Jerfey. Doctor Thomas
Barber, of that place, to Mils Nancy Edwards, a
lady pofTcfled ot every amiable accomplilhment,
that can render the nuptial tie agreeable.
* Subscribers to the National Gazette»
in arrears for the firil half yearly pay
ment, aie requelled to discharge the fame
without delay. Remittances for this pur
pose to be made to the Editor, in Phila
delphia, Mr. Francis Childs, printer in
New-York, or to the Poilmallers in their
several vicinities.
The New Genealogy.
[[From the R. Island Herald.
!• SATAN begat taxation, and taxa
tion begat opposition, and opposition begat
the war, and the war begat the old con •
federation.
2. And the old confederation lived four
hundred and three score day?, and begat
speculation.
3. And the old confederation lived
after he begat speculation one thousand
three huncjred and four score and ten days
and begat sons and daughters.
4. And all the days oi the old confe
deration were four thousand three hundiec
and four score days and he died.
5. And speculation lived three scon
itid ten days, and begat the public debt
6. And speculation lived after he begat
the public debt three thousand eight hun,
ired and tour score and ten days, anc
begat sons. and daughters.
7. And ail the days of speculation were
— (he is living to this day, and in al
probability, will live to the a e of Me
ihufcldh.)
8 And. the publ c debt begat uneafi
ness, and tneaiinefs begat the convent on,
\nd the convention begat the new confti
:ution, and the new cocllitution begal
the new 1 ongrefs.
9. Arid Ihe new congress lived fiv<
hundred and forty and fevendays and begai
the—:unding bill.
~ BOOK S;
Printed and fold by
MAT HEW CAREY,
No. iiSt, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. American (Vl uleum, from its commencement
n January 757, to December 1791, in ten vols
l J rice, neat It bound and lettered, sixteen dollars.
This worn, wbitb is none conducted on an im
proved plan, containing the beji pieces publijhedfo/
■znd a gain (i the proceedings of government, will b>
found to Contain at leajt as great a variety of poli
tical , agricultural, and miscellaneous essays, as any
ever publijhed in America. Perhaps in no one work
arc jo many va uable documents rejpe fling the hijio
ry of this counny, collected together. His excel
lency the President of the Unued States, has de
clared of it, that " a more utfeful literary plan
has never been undertaken in America, nor one
rn:>re delerving of public encouragement.'* The
lubfcriptton is two dollars and a half per annum.
Gentleu.cn in the country mho wijh to be jupphea
with this work, are requejled to give commjjion tc
friends in the city to jubjcribe Jor and receive it.
2. Ladies' Pocket Liorar) — containing : —Miji
Morels Eflays } Gregory*s Legacy } Lady Pen
nington's advice j Marchionejs of Lambert's ad
vice j Swft s letter to a newly married >ady j
Mrs. Chap ere on command of temper \ Mores fa
toics for the ic.dies Price 6/6.
3. Soma's Hiltory of New-York. f>om itsfirfi
fettlerftent to the year 1732. To which ii annexed }
a dejeription of the country, with a Jhort account
of the inhabitants, their religious and political fate,
and the lonjiitution oj the courts of jufiice—Prict
a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements or Moral Science, by James Beat
tie,' l. l. d. profejjor of moral pbilojcphy and logic
in the Marijchal College, Aberdeen—Price thret
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Critical Re
viewers (vol. 69. p. Jay : " JVe have feet
nothing on tbefe jubjetfs more plain, more perfpicu
us, or more genera ly ufeful
5. Beauties of Poetry, Britijh and American,
containing felefl produElions of the mofi eminent Bri
tijh and American poets. Price four fifths of a dol,
0 Bsair's Sermons, containing the wboie of tht
three volumes of the British edition, in two. Prict
two dollars.
7. Neckar*s Treatise on the importance of reli
gious opinions, Price four fifths of a dollar.
8. Examination of the objervations of Lord Shef
field's on American Commerce, Price, on very fint
paper, five eighths of- a dollar,
9. 'Ibe ConjHtutions of the jeveral United States :
Wtth the federal Conjhtution, &c, Price fivt
eighths of a dollar,
10 M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition h
12mo. Price three eighths of a dollar,
11. American Jest B >ok, in two parts, with
two very neat engravings. Price bound, thret
fifths oj a dollar.
12. Garden of the Soul, by Bifiop Chalenor.
Price, bound plain, ha f a dollar, in calf and let
tred thret 'quarters oj a doliai, plain \-ldol,
13' The Douay Tranjlation of the vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto. Price', elegantly bound and lettered,
$ofz---plainjJix. dojlars-
Said Carev has for sale, a large ajfertment oj
books, European as well as American editions,
which he vtoi 11 difpoje of on the moji reajonable terms,
Country genttemen, wbo favor him with commands,
may aepend upon bemg Jupplied in the rnoft jatisfac
tory manner. A liberal allowance to such ai pur
chaje quantities for public libraries, or to jell again,
Ma Jf 17- 6m. ia.w.
FIFTEEN DOLLARS REWARD,
RUNAWAY from the fubferiber in Novem
ber 1791 a negro woman by the name
of Alfe about 25 years of age; flie is a low well set
wench f: mething on the yellow complexion with
a bulhy head of hair something related to the
East India molattoes,broad over the flioulders» has
holes in her ears and rings in them when went
awav, (he can spin and weave tollerably well, (he
has been at work in Milford and as high as Do
ver-Town in the Delaware slate, in the month ol
May 1792. I expect (he has made higher up.
She at that time went by the .lame of Blake.—
Whoever takes up and secures said Negro wench,
<0 as the owner may get her again, shall have the
above reward—Living in ACcomack county, Vir
ginia.
CHARLES TURNSELL:
4 times, saw;
AT i meeting of the direflorSjof the foclrfv (at
c.iabJi(Kinulst'ul manufa&ures, held j- New-
Ark, on Friday ttic eighteenth day ot May
1702, at which time wai passed the following
SUPPLEMENT to an ordinance, entitled " A a
ordinance for securing the purittual payment of
the monies due on the fubferjptiona to the soci
ety for eftablilhing ufeful manufactures. •*
\/i7*HERE AS.by the third fettion of the ordi-
V V nance, entitled " An ordinance for fee ur
.og the pun&uat payment of the monies due on
the fubfenptions to the society for eftablifbing use
.l manufadlures," it is ordained, that if any
I übicriber or his afligns, (hall neglett to pay tha
cond third or fourth payment of his, her or their
ie» t eftive fubferiptions for the (pace of three davs
alter the expiration of the time limited by the lav/
if incorporation for the said payments that is to
fay, the second payment, on the thirteenth day of
July. 1792: that then and in that cafe, all and
every (hare or (hares, of such person or persons fu
negle&ing to make such payments as aforefaid,
and the monies by them previously paid, (hall be
forfeited, and forever thereafter verted in the said
□ ire&ors and their fucccfibrs for the common be
nefit of the said society.
And whs reas circumstances render it inexpedient
to exad full payment of the second instalment on
the said thirteenth day of July next, or within
thee d iys thereafter.
Be it therefore ordained, by the deputy Gover
nor and directors of the society for eftablilhing use
ful manufactures, that if the said second payment
fhali be made in manner following, that is to fay,
one equal third part thereof, on or before the
thirteeenth day of Augull next, one other equal
third part theeof on or before the thirteenth day
of September next and one other equal third part
thereof, on or before the thirteenth day of Otto*
ber next, with lawful interest computed thereon
from the said thirteenth day of July next, that
hen andin such cafe, the said penalty mentioned
n the said fettion, (hall not be exatted, any thing
in the said ordinance to the contrary notwithftani
ing.
A. MERCER, Deputy Governor.
Extratt from the Minutes,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clk;
NEW-YORK & PHILADELPHIA STAGES
Pia Bordentcivn and Burlington,
And SHREWSBURY & PHILADELPHIA
STAGE,
V\a Bordtntciun*
THE proprietors of the New-York and Phi
ladelphia land and water Stages beg leave to
Mention, that for the better accommodation of
•alTengers, they have thought proper to remove
he different packet boats from their former stand,
it the Crooked Billet wharf, to the wharf or dock
mmediately next below Arch-street, from whence,
>n the firft day of July next, and afterwards, a
:onvenient packet-boat will start for New-York,
is usual, on every Sunday, Tuesday, Wednesday
ind Thursday, and return \)n every Tuesday,
Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The pafTage to
>e made either by the way of Bordentown or Bur
ington,each place to be taken alternately. Fare
or paflengers from Philadelphia to New-York
fs s• —— For Goods pr. cwt. 6.
VAN EMBURGH 2c M'KEAN,
DAVID WILLIAMSON,
Proprietors of the line of New-Yoik and Phi
ladelphia Stages, by the route of Bordentown.
JACOB MYERS,
AMOS HUTCHIN,
NICHOLAS SCHENK,
Proprietors of the line of N. Yo.k and Phila
delphia Stages, by the route of Burlinyton.
The Shrewsbury Stage will leave Philadelphia
n the months oi July and September, on every
iunday and and return on every
Tuesday and Friday. In the month of August,
t will leave Philadelphia on every Sunday and
Thursday, and return on every Tuesday and Sa
urday.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
Daniel lot,
Proprietors of the Shrewibury and Philad. Stage.
Bordentoion, 'June 25, 1792.
For freight or palfage apply to the matters o«
> ard, orto M'KEAN be VAN EMBURGH,
it their (lore on said wharf, immediately next be
ow Arch-Street j by vbom orders for the fur chafe
f all kinds of grainy Jlaves, or other country fro
luce f are punctually attended to.
For freight or paHage to Lamberton or Tren
:©n, also apply as above. javv j
Philadelphia, June 27.
HOWELL's LARGE
MAP of PENNSYLVANIA.
rHIS work is engraved in the mod elegant
flyle, and will be ready for delivery early
his fuminer. It is 63 inches long and 36 in
:hes wide, and for the moll part very full of
vork (except some small places of which mate
ials were not to be had) and was wholly com
>iled froma&ual surveys, acquired at great ex
>ence of money, and more than four years
abour, and from its manifeft public utility,
he Legislature has been pleased to grant tlic
jroprietor the fumof three hundred pounds.
1 his map exhibits the County and Townlliip
Divisions, and thofc of the Surveyors Ditlricb
n the Ntw-1 urchafe, Donation and £)eprecia—
.1011 Lands ; the waters, portages, and the Ca
nal, mountains and valleys, roads, towns, &c.
He thanks the Public for their very liberal
fubfeription, and informs them that itisyetkept
open. He fells his SMALL MAPS, on can
vats; folded and cas'd for pocket carriage, at
10/6, and plain at 8/4.
RKADING HOWELL
No. BS, North Fifth-J} 1 eet.
June n. law. 6w.
«
*«* Three handsome Editions of the La*us
of the United c tates for f'ale at this office
(No. 209 Mm let flreet) in folio and 08a•
vo, either full or half bound—N.B. The
Laws of the lafl Seffior, in odavo only, may
be hadfejar ate, price three eighths of a dollar,The ISLAND-FIELD-NEGRO.
Written feme years ago at a Sugar-Plantation in
' Jamaica•]
IF there exists a hell, (the cafe ii clear,)
.Sir Toby's slaves enjoy that portion here:
Here are no burning brimftdne lakes, 'tis true,
But kindled rum full often burns as blue ;
In which some fiend, half serious, half in jest,
Steeps Tobys : s name, and brands poor Cudjoe't
breast.
Here whips on whips excite a thousand fears,
And mingled howiings vibrate on my ears j
Here Nature's plagues abound, of all decrees,
Snakes, ftorpions, despots, lizards, centipees—
No art, no care efcapc6 the busy lash,
All have their dues, and all are paid in cash :
Theiengthy cart-whip guards this tyrant's reign,
And cracks, like pistols from the fields of cane.
Ye powers that formed these wretched tribes re
late,
What have they done to merit such a fate !
Why were they brought from Ebo's sultry waste
To fee the plenty that they must not taste ?
Food which they cannot buy, and dare not steal j
Yams and potatoes---many a scanty meal !
One y with a gibbet wakes his negroe's fears,
One to the wind-mill nails him by the ears ;
One keeps his slave in dismal dens unfed,
One puts the wretch in pickle ere he's dead ;
Tbis y to a tree suspends him by the thumbs,
That, from his table grudges even the crumbs!
O'er yon* rough hills a tribe of females go,
Each with her gourd, her infant, and her hoe,
Scorch'd by a fun, that has no mercy here,
Driven by a devil, that men call Overseer j
In chains twelve wretches to their labor haste,
Thrice twelve 1 fee with iron collars grae'd j—-
Are these the joys that flow from vast domains,
Is gold thus got, Sir Toby, worth your pains ?
Who would your wealth on terms like these pofiefs,
Where all we fee-is pregnant with distress,
Angola's natives flogg'd by hireling hands,
And toil's hard product fhipp'd to foreign lands ?
Talk not of blofToms, and your endless spring,
No joy to me these scenes of mis'ry bring
Where Stygian pictures halt their shades renw*,
Pi&ures of woe that Virgil's pencil drew :
Where black-guard Charons make their yearly
trip > • * •
And fouls arrive in every Guinea fliip—
Where they who pine, and languish to be free
Must climb the tall cliffs of the Lganee ;
Beyond the clouds in skulking haste repair,
And hardly fate from brother butchers there.
' 11 n—in. »
[The following are the Forms of certain Ir.Jiru
menrs referred to in the French Patent-Law, in
cur preceding papers.]
NUMBER I.
THE form of a receipt to l>e given from the
Directory of Brevets of Invention, acknow
ledging the having received a petition.
" No. Department of this
day of the month of in the yea:
of hour of the morning, or night. Mr.
N. has, or Mefiieurs N. N. have deposited into
our hands, the present packet, lealed with his,
or their seals 3 that he, or they tell us, contain
all- the tiefcriptions, (here must be a faithful de
fcriprion of the object) for which object he
proposes, or they propose, to obtain a brevet of
invention, for 5, or 10, or 15 years, after the
manner mentioned in the petition , also, contain
ed in the said packet; he has, or they have de
clared to us, the said Mr. N. or the said Messrs.
N. N. that he is, or they are the inventor, 01 in
ventors, pcrfe&or or perfe&or3, importer or im
porters of the said object; he has, or they have
put half tnefum, and his, or their acknowledg
mentto pay in months, the other half
for the right of a brevet of invention ; as fixed in j
the rmle of according to the law of the !
7th January, 1791, praying us, to forward as loon ,
as pofiibJe, this packet to the director of brevets
of invention ; which wehave promised : of which
depofite and request the said Mr.N. or the the said
Meflrs. N. N. deli re an acknowledgment, which
we have given him, or them ; after setting the
fcal of our department, have invited him,or them,
to sign with us, which he, or they have done, at
the secretary's office of the directory of the de
panment of month, ' year.
Signed, N N N
NUMBER 11.
Form of a Brevet s/" Invention.
LOUIS, by the grace of God, and by the con
stitutional law of the state, King of the French :
To all present and to come, faiute. N. citizen,
OrN. N. citizens, having set forth to us that he
desires, or that they desire to enjoy the rights of
property allured by the law of the 7th Jan. 1791,
to authors of discoveries and inventio-ns in all
■works of genius ; in consequence, to obtain a
brevet of invention, which shall continue for the
space of (here they fha!l mention in all the letters,if
it is for 5, for 10 or for 15 years) to fabricate and
fell in all the kingdom, (here they shall tranferibe
the object, such as it has been declared by the
petitioner) of which he, or v they have declared to
be the inventor, or inventors ; the perfedior, or
perfe&ors ; the importer or importers : Likewifc,
the result of the verbal process then filled up from
the depofite made at the secretary's office of the
directory of the department of date of
month year. See the petition of N. or of
N.N. together with the memorials explicative, or
tiefcriptive of the plans and aefigns, if there are
any, diredied by the petitioner or petitioners, to
the director of brevets of invention; of which
memorial, or of which memorials and designs
(here shall follow the tenor and copy j—here
shall be exactly tranferibed the said memorials,
and copies of the plans and drawings as they arc
in the English patents.)
We have conformably to the law of the 7th j
January, 1791, conferred to Mr. N. or to
Mclfieurs N, N. a brevet of invention, (0 fabri- j
cafe and fell In all parts of the kingdom, during
the term of 5, or 10,' or 15 years,compleat an J fuc
celfive, (here it will be necefiary to announce the
objedl of the brevet) executed by the means as
signed in the above description, and upon which
shall be put, a (lamp with these words, ii Brevet
of invention," and the name of th; author, or
of the authors, for him, or for them ; and his, or
their having caufe,fhall enjoy the said brevet in any
part of the kingdom, for the time as above men
tioned, in all conformable to the law of January
7th, 1791, forbidding in express terms, all persons
from imitating or-counterfeiting the objects, un
der whatever pretext that may be.
Willing to assure to N. or N. "N; the enjoy
ment of his, or their brevet, that there may be
made on this a proclamation in our name, that
none may pretend ignorance j given and ordered
to all tribunals, governments, and corporations
to let enjoy and ufc fully and peaceably the rights
enforced by these presents, to Mr. N. or MeflVs.
N. N, and his, or their causing, ceasing, mak
ing cease, all troubles and hindrances *. Ordering,
also, that the firft request of the patentee, or of,
the patentees, that is presented, they shall have
tranferibed upon their regiflers, read, publish and
poll in their refpe&ive jurifdidtions ami depart
ments ; and execute for the term of their dura- !
tion, as the law'of the kingdom. In faith of j
which,we have figned,and caused to be
ed the said prefents,to which we have made set the ;
leal of the (hate at the day of
the month of year of our Lord one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety and of our
reign the
Signed, LOUIS.
Lower,
D I LER/SAR T.
Pi ices Current at Philadelphia..
[Dollars equal to 100 cents.
ASHES Pot per ton 90 Dols. to 100.
Arties Pearl 137 — 140.
liacon flitches per lb. 7 cents.
Bacon (houlders — 6 do.
3ee6 wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27.
Brandy, Coniac, pergl. j doi. 20 c* to 1 d. 33 C*
Brandy, common, 1 dol. 26 c.
Butter, in kegs, per lb. 9 c. to 10. .
Coals, per bushel, 20 c. to 22
Coffee, per lb. 18 to 20 c. i
Cotton, per lb. 26 c. to 40
Flax, per lb. 11 to 12 c.
Flour, fuperfine, per barrel, 5 Do!. 13 C.
Common, 4 dols. So c.
Burr middlings, best, perbrl. 4 DoJ.
.Meal Indian 2 dols. 52 c.
Rye 2 dols. 40 c.
Ship fluff, per cwt, 1 dol. id. 33c.
Gin, Holland, per cafe, 4 dols# 67 c.
Ginseng per lb. 20 c. to 24
Grain, barley, per bushel, 90 c.
best shelled, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per bushel, 40 c.
Indian corn, 41 c. Qata 26 c. pr. bush.
Rye 54, Wheat 93 to 95 c.
Hams, perlb. 8 c. te 9
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67c.
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9 c. to 11
Indigo, Carolina, per lb. 60 c. to I dol#
iron, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
Cartings, per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nail-rods per ton 96 dols.
P.g, per ton, 24 dols. to 26 doh. 67 c.
Sheet, per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
Lard, hogs, perlb. 9 r. to 10
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
In pigs, 5 dols. 33 c. to 5 dols. 67 c.
Red, —— 6 dols. 40 c. to b dols. 67 c.
White, 10 dols. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Myrtle wax per Jb. 18 c.
Molasses, per gal. 44 c. to 50
Nutmegs, per lb. 7 to 8 dollars
Oil, Linseed, per gallon, 65 to 67 c.
Pepper, perlb. 40 c. to 50c.
Pimento,— 16 c.
Porter, London, per dozen, 1 dol. 60 c«
American, do. 1 d. 4 c. to 1 d. 60 c.
Pitch, per barrel, 1 dol. 73 c. to 2 dols.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 11 doh to II d 6jc,
Lower County, do. 10 dols.
Carolina, do. 9 dols.
Rice, per 100 lb. 2 dols. 50 c. to 2 dol. 67 c.
Roftn, per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 d 015.67 c.
Rum, Antigua, per gaUon, j dol. 11 c.
Barbadoes, do. do. 87 c.
New-England, &c. 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. j8 c. to id. 22 c*
Windward Island, 93c. to id.
Salt,- (Allum) per bushel, 24 to 27 c.
Cadiz, 23 to 24 c.
Lisbon, 25 to 27 c.
Liverpool, — 29 c.
Skins, Deer, in hair, per lb. 20 to 30 c.
Red, ditto, ■ ■ 26 to 33 c.
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
Sugar, Havanna, white, per lb. 17 to 18 c.
Brown, per lb. 15 c.
Muscovado, per cwt. 14 d. to 16 d. 67 c.
Lump, per lb. 24 c.
Loaf, single refined, 26 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 c.
Tallow, refined, per lb. 9 c.
Tar, New-Jersey, 24 gal. to the brl. 1 dol.
Carolina, 32 gal. 1 dol. 33 c. to 1 dol. 67 c.
Tea, Hyson, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
Hyson skin, 53 c. to 67
Soufhong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 30 c. to 33
Tobacco, James River, best. per cwt. 3 dols. 60
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 2 dols. 67 c. to 3 dols.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 2 dols. 50 c. to 3 dol
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl. 33 c. to 8 d
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, 2 dols. 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dols. 23 c.
Carolina, new, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dols.
Carolina, old, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dol
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. 67 c. to 2 dols.
Wine, Madeira, per p.ipe, 106 dl. 67 c. to 200 dl.
Lisbon, 96 dols. to 100
Teneriffe, per gal. 51 c. to 60
FayaU 44 c. 49
Port, per pipe, 106 dols. 67c. to 120 d#
Sherry, per gal. 90 c. to id. 20c.
Society for ejlab lifting Ujeful Manufactures•
PROPOSALS to Contrail so following
purposes, will be received at New-York by
Nicholas Low, at New-Ark by Eliiha Boudinot,
at New-Brunfwick by John Bayard, and at Phi
ladelphia, by Charles Pettit—viz :
I ft. To cut a canal from the river PafTaick,
beginning at a point near a station, where stands a
stake marked No. i, and continuing thence to
the brink of a precipice at or near a rock marked
No. 3. "This canal must be thirty feet wide, and
must be funk to a leve 1 with the furface of the wa
ter in the drie# season.
2d. To eredt flood-gates in the said canal near
the brink of the precipice.
3d. To erect a dam on the river PafTaick above
the Great Falls, and below the place of the canal.
The dam to be foui feet above the level of the
furface of the water at the dried season.
4th. To eredt a dry wall across a gully adjacent
to" the abovemeutioned precipice, in a diredlion
from the said station No. 3, to another station be
ing a flak rsarked No. 6, on or near the summit
of a hill, extendiug from theone t>e the other ;
and to make a wooden trough upon the said wall
sixteen feet wide by seven feet deep.
sth.To extend a trough of the lame dimensions,
from the said station No. 6, to another station
being a tree marked No. 7, with a dry wail on
one fide, the whole length thereof,of the thicknslb
of fix fell
6th. T« ere& at the town of Paterfon, near
the Falls of the PafTaick, a stone building, fifty
five feet long by thirty-two feet wide, four stories
high,exclufive of a cellar the whole length thereof.
7th. To ered another stone building at the said
town of feventv-eight feet long, by
thirty-one feet wide, three stories high, exclusive
of a cellar the whole length thereof.
Bth. To eredt another stone building at the said
town of Paterfon, thirty-eight feet long bv twen
ty-seven feet wide, two stories high, exclusive of a
ellar the whole length thereof.
9th. To eredt another stone building sixty-eight
feet long by thirty fix feet wide, two stories high,
exclusive of a cellar the whole length thereof.
iothi To ered fifty houses of stone or wood,
as may be afterwards determined, each twenty
four feet long by eighteen feet wide, in height
from the lower floor to the plate twelve feet, with
a cellar and a garret. Two houses to be un
der one roof, with a party wall. The proposals
will fpecify severally the rates at which thele build
ings will be undertaken in stone and in wood.
Defciipt.ve plans of the several objeds above
fpecified, No. 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, may be
seen in the pofleflion of Nicholas Low at New-
York, Eliiha Boudinot, at New-Aik, John Bay
ard, at New-Brunfwick, Charles Pettit, at Phila
delphia and William Hall at the said town of Pa
terfon. The said William Hall will give* such
explanations as may be neceflary.
A descriptive plan of the building above fpecified
No. 6, may be seen in the pofl'eflion of the four
nrft above mentioned peifons and of Thomas
Marshall, at the town of Paterfon who will give
such explanations as may be necelTary.
A descriptive plan of the buiiding above fpecified
No- 9, may be seen in the pofi'eftion of the four
firft abovementioned persons, and of William
Pearce at the town of Paterfon, who will give such
explanations as may 6e necelTary.
All materials are to be found, brought to the
spot, ana ereded bv the contractors, to whom li
berty will b? granted under certain reftridions to
use the stones or timber which may be on the
lands of the society.
The proposals may comprehend either the
whole or any one or more of the foregoing objeds.
The proposers may accompany their proposals by
the suggestion of any «ther methods which /hall
occur to them for conftruding a competent wall
across the gully from station No. 3, to station No.
6, and for conveying the water from thence to
station No 7, and the terms upon which they may
be disposed to contrad according to those methods-
All the works for conveying the water must be
warranted for seven years.
Proposals must be in writing, and under seal
addreiTed to the society for eftablifliing ufeful ma
nufactures j and delivered to one of the said per
sons firft mentioned, on or before the twenty sixth
of July instant.
July 10. 3 t.
TEN POUNDS REWARD.
BROKE goal at Monmouth court-house on
Sunday evening, the joth inft. a Negro
Man, named SAM, sometimes calls himfelf
George j is of a yellow complexion, high cheek
bones, large white eyes, and impudent look j said
negro is about five feet ten inches high, had on
and took with him when he went away, a flieeting
shirt and trowfers, oznabrigs frock, and an old felt
hat. Whosoever will deliver said runaway to his
master, Or lodge him in any goal, so that his mas
ter may have him again, fliall be entitled to the
above reward to be paid by me,
ELISH A J.EWEL.
Freehold, Monmouth county, June 22, 1792.
iaw4t
A FARM FOR SALE.
CTc be fold cheap for cajh, a Farm situated on the
Banks, and on the north fide of the river Rari
tan in the Jlate of New-J e*fey \ eight miles from the
city of New-Brunfwic, and one pom the town of
Bound Brook, containing 191 acres, and 40 acres
about a mile dijlant apportioned' to it for 'woodland:
on this farm has lately been ereEled a neat and
convenient house 28 by 34 feet neatly finifhed,
built on a cellar the dimensions oj the House, with
a kitchen forming a wing 24 by 18 feet completed :
50 acres of it being meadow renders this place tru
ly valuable 5 the healthy airy and plcdfant situation
makes it an agreeableJeat for a gentleman : the
meadow avd fertility of the foil, an object for ike \
farmer, its being surrounded by the moji wealthy
and opulent farmers in the Jlate, a very eligible
Jlatjd for aflore. The ride to and from Brunfivic,
cn eitherfide of the river, is delightful: for the
price apply to the editor sf the National Gazette.
6w iaw..
*** For fate, at this Office, Sermons by
th* Rev'd Dr. WiUiam Linn, of N. York.
Pri«s/, WI
, TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Subscriber has it in contemplation Too*
to decline his present bufinefs —and having on
hand a confiderabJe quantity of fuperfine l'econd
and elastic cloths, together with a variety of other
articles in his way, proposes to fell them at the
following reduced pees, VIZ.
Belt Superfine navy blue * 34f.
Ditto, ditto. Scarlet 36/,
Common colours fuperfine 32/..
Elastic stripes
London bust and white caflimers 15/6.
Ditto, coloured do. 1 $j,
Yorkihire do. do. *3/6-
Striped toilenets j^f.
Rattinets
Striped Nankeens : 3/4.
A variety of waistcoat /hapes proportionably low
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London best silk hose, from 22/6 to 24//
I he above goods have been mostly imported from
one of the firft mercantile houses in London, and
are of an equal quality oany imported intoAme
ricaj they will be fold per piece or smaller quantity
as may best suit the purchasers , bv the publics
most humble servant, JOHN SHEPHERD.
perlon dilpofed to purchase the whole
of the above stock, may also have on reasonable
terms his present dwelling house together With
the a more eligible situation for business in
the taiior s line is not to be found in this city,
i he advantage of this business being so well
bli/hed by the proprietor will be very gra<, and
fi*m known fads, needs no comment.
A leaie of fix years may be had of the house.
May i 4l aaw.tf.,
PROPO S A L S
For Printing by Subscription,
PUBLIC Ye PORTS
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
OF THE
Government of the United States
CONGRESS,
Commencing zoith the present Government, and end
ing with the close of the SeJjionofMay 1792.
7 HIS work is intended to be printed in one
volume o£tavo, eflimated to contain between five
and fix hundred pages, and will be delivered to
fubferibers in boards at One Dbllar and a balT.
A complete colletljon of the Reports into a
convenient and portable volume has been sug
gested to the publilhers by several Members of
Congress and other gentlemen, and they are row
determined to proceed 011 with the work, provi
ded a competent number of fubferibers appear
to patronize the undertaking.
Subscriptions are received by CHILDS and
SWAINE, the publishers, No. 209, Market
street, Philadelphia, and by the principal Book
sellers in the United States.
May 24.
To be pullljhed by Subscription,
THI
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR
Proceedings of the Old Congress,
From their firlt Meeting in September 1774,
to tieir final dissolution in March 1789,
COMPRISING at full length, every impor
tant resolution, order, address, declaration,
&c. contained in the thirteen volumes of their
journals—a concise summary of the less interest
ing parts,—an alphabetical lift of appointments,
promotions and resignations—a collective viewin
che public expenditures, &c. &c the whole in
tended to serve as a fatisfadlory substitute for the
original journals, which are now out of print, and
of which the entire substance, un incumbered with
official formalities and repetitions, wi.l here be
given in about ohe fourth of their present bulk,
accompanied with one complete general Index : —
To which will be added, a copious and valuable
collection of
ORIGINAL STATE PAPERS,
from the Records and Files of Congress,
Containing (either verbatim,or in abftraft,
as the cases may leverally require) such interest
ing pieces referred to in the journals, as may with
propriety be permitted to be made public, viz.
Letters from the different officers employed in
the public service during the late wai—intercept
ed letters of the enemy—communications from
governors, state legislatures, conventions, and
committees—-dispatches from agents and com
millioners—inftru&ions--- reports of committees
of Congress ; and various other authentic docu
ments, tending to throw a light on the important
events, to which America owes her present inde
pendence.
In the couife of the work, will be introduced,
in their proper places, parts of the
SECRET JOURNALS,
as no longer require secrecy.
As soon as 500 copies are"subscribed for, tlie
work will be put to press, to he delivered to fub
feribers, in numbers of 304 o&avo pages each, at
One Dollar, in blue boards. The Sub
scription money 'will not be required for the fir ft
Number, until the publication is begun ; and
on the delivery of each number, half a dollar will
be expe&ed in advance for the succeeding one*
To non-fubferibers, the price will be raised.
Subscriptions will be received by the prin
cipal booksellers throughout the Union, and by
the Editor.*
JOHN CAREY.
No. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
PRINTED BY
CHILDSand WAIN E,
AT THEIR OFFICE NO. 209, HIGH-STREL'f
NEAR FIFTH-STREET,
PIIiLABELFH I At