Vol. I.
PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE CF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, Feb 29.
MR. Speaker laid before the House :
report from the Treasurer or the
United States, containing his specie account
from the firft of October, to the 31ft of De
cember 17-9 1. Referred to a special com
mittee, to examine and report.
A meflage was delivered by Air. Sect eta
ryOtis, notifying that the Senate had agreee
to the conferenr proposed by the Houle
on the fubjeft of the amendments to the
Frontier-bill, and had. on their part, ap
pointed a committee of three members, tc
meet the committee (of five) appointed b)
the House. .
The House being iwformed of the melan
choly accident befallen the Hon. Mr. Day
ton*, who had been appointed one of the
committee, another member was nomina
ted in his stead.
A report from the Secretary of the Trea
fury, on the petition of the executors of Ed
ward Carnes, was read and referred to ..
committee of the whole Floufe, on Mon
day next.
Mr. Murray moved that the House lhoulc
resolve itfelf into a committee of the whole
to take up a motion, forne days lince laic
on the table by Mr. Gerry, for the appoint
ment of a committee to ',-ing in a bill foi
the reduction of the portage ol newfpapei s.
After a few desultory observations, the
question was taken on the motion, ane
passed in the negative ; — Yeas, 17 ; Nays.
25■ .
Mr. Gerry hereupon gave notice, that
he will move for taking up the said refu
tation to-morrow .
Mr. Page then called up the report
of the feleft committee on the memori
al of Mr. Churchman, and.
The House ' aving agreed to take it
into consideration, and the memorial,
together with the report of the com
mittee thereon, being read,
Mr. Page delivered a speech of some
length, in which he advocated Mr.
Churchman's cause, and concluded
with a motion that the House should
agree to the report of the committee,
some debate, —
A division of the question being cal
led for,
The House agreed (yeas, 26 ; nays,
25) to the firft part of the report of the
committee, which, though it does not
confer any immediate benefit on Mr.
Churchman, is yet worthy of notice,
on account of a fccming connexion be
tween it and a fubjett, which lately
kept the House engaged in a warm de
bateof nearfourdays continuance—vir.
the power of granting 'bounties' or
'allowances&c. —lt is as follows :
" The Congress of the United
States may, with great propriety, patronise
such a person as Mr. Churchman, and
grant him such aid, as may be necefTary tc
enable him to prosecute his laudable en
quiries, to goodeffeft."
The yeas and nays were moved for on
this question, and some gentlemen rose in
support of the motion. One gentleman
however having objected to calling them,
and another (whohad risen) having with
drawn his support, the motion was with
drawn and they were not called.
The latter part of the report was ther
agreed to, and in pursuance thereof, a com
mittee was appointed to bring in a bill tc
secure to authors or their afligns, the co
py-right of maps, chart ', table , and prints,
by greater penalties than those declared ir.
the former act.
Mr. Laurance presented, from the
meichants of New-York, who trade tc
India and China, a memorial in all ref
petts similar to that presented a few
days ago from the merchants of Phila
delphia. Referred, as the former,
to the Committee of the whole on the
state of the union.
Mr. W. Smith (from the committee
appointed to examine and report whe
* This Gentleman, in faffnr, through Market
fired the evening before, ingoing over J'ome ice,
had the misfortune tofall, and break his leg.
By P, FRENEAU: Publijhtd Mondays ana .Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
THURSDAY, March 8, 1792-
ther any and what alterations are nece!-
fary to be made in the a&s cftablifhing
[he Treasury and War Departments)
made a report, which was twice rear),
ordered to be printed, and referred to
a Committee of the whole lioule on
Tuesday next.
The House then resolved itfelf into
s Committee of the whole—[Mr. v\ .
Smith in the chair j—and relumed ihe
consideration of the Militia Bill.
The quefbion being taken on a moti
on, made yesterday by Mr. Sumpter.
toftrikeout the second feciion, con
taining an enumeration of various de
scriptions of persons to be exempted
from militia duty. pasTed in the ne
gative ; —yeas, 17 ; nays not counted.
A motion was then made by Mr.
Steele, to amend the feftion, by adding,
at the end of the lift of exempts, a
rlaufe to the following effett :—" and
dll others who may have been exemp
ted by laws heretofore pal Ted within
their refpeftive states."
It was here observed, that some states
have as yet no militia laws, and conse
quently have not had an opportunity of
making ' heretofore' such exemptions, as
may however be thought proper when
they come to pass such laws.
Mr. White thought there was no ne
cessity of particularizing the laws' al
ready past but that it would be better
to leave the matter open to the discre
tion of the state legislatures by simply
faying " all persons exempted by the
laws of their refpeftive states."
Mr. Steele's amendment was amend
;d and agreed to, as follows :—" and all
persons, who now are, or hereafter may
exempted, by the laws of their ref
peftive states."
On wiotion oF TVrr. J?O*■ d:r.ril, i 6 the
members of both Houses of Congress,
ivith their refpe&ive officers," were
idded to the lift of exempts.
Mr. J. Smith moved to strike out all
he different officers of the state govern
ments, thinking it better to leave to the
iifcretion of the state legislatures the
exemption of such of their own officers
as they may think proper.
The motion was carried ; Yeas
24 ; Nays, 12.
Mr. Boudinot moved to add " all
serfons conscientiously scrupulous of
rearing arms."
After a short debate, the motion was
negatived ; and
The Committee rose and reported
progress. Adjourned.
Thursday, March 1.
A petition of Adam Syfat alias Sy
>ert, was presented to the House and
read, praying relief in confiderati
sn of wounds and injuries received in
he service of the United States, during
the late war.
Mr. Sedgwick, from the managers ap
pointed oil behalf of the House, to confer
with the Senate on the fubjeft matter of
;he amendment to the militia bill, now de
pending between the two Houses, made a
report —whereupon it was resolved that
the House do recede from their disagree
ment to two amendments to said bill, and
agree to an amendment to the fifteenth fec
tiou, which authorises the Prelident of the
United States to call into service from time
to time, and for such periods as he may
deem requ'rfite, such number of cavalry as
he may thinkneceilary for theproteaion of
the frontiers ; and reftrifting the non-com
miflioned officers to one dollar a day, and
the privates to seventy five cents ; each to
find horse, arms and accoutrements, at his
own risque; and twenty five cents per day
in lieu of rations and forage, provided he
furnifh himfelf therewith.
Mr. Goodhue, from the joint committee
•,f the two houses, appointed to consider and
-eport what business is necessary to be done
by Congress in the present feflion, made a
report ; which was read and ordered to
lie on the table-
Mr. Williamfon, from the committee,
presented a bill to amend an a£t for pronio
:ing the progress of the ufeful arts.—which
was read the firft time.
Friday, March 2.
Ihe committee appointed for that
pur. afe, having yesterday, after the o
pen. ig the doors, reported a bill to a
mer. i the ast to promote the progress
of u.eful arts—the fame was this day
taki 1 up, and, after a second reading,
oru' red to be printed, and referred to a
/ . rnl ttee of the whole House, 011
1 liiv next,
A .meftage was delivered by Mr. Se
cre ry Otis, notifying, that the Senate
had jaded the bill (lent to them from
the ifoufe of Representatives) " to af
rerJ*in and regulate the claims to half
pay and invalid pensions, " with a
niendments, in which they requcfted
the concurrence of the House.
Mr. Otis at the fame time informed
the House, that the President of the
Uniied States had, on the firft instant,
approved and signed the " Ast relative
to the election of a President and Vicc-
Pre&dent of the United States, and de
claring the officer, who shall ast as Pre
sident, in cafe of vacancies in the of
ficer both of President and Vice-Prefi
dent."
Mr. Gerry called up his motion sot
the appointment of a committee, tr
bring in abill to reduce the rates of pof
tagc on newspapers ; —whereupon,
An honorable member observed, thai
as the rates had not crept into the bill
by chance or oversight, but after ma
ture deliberation and discussion, a haft)
repeal of that part of the law, before ex
perience has shewn its operation,woulc
betray in the government a want of fta
bility which might be attended witl
consequences worse than the worst tha
could be apprehended from the law ir
Us present form.
Stability '{it w«*s is inueec
honorable to government as well astc
individuals, —but it is liability in wil
dom, not (lability in error :—if the rate:
of postage appear unreafonablv high
and likely to prove burdensome, tht
burden ought to be lightened, withou
waiting till experience should afcertair
its precise weight.
Already (it was said) its injurious ef
fefts begin to be felt:—the readers o
newspapers have begun to stop then
fubferiptions :—complaints come for
ward from the constituents to their re
prefentative, that a monopoly is grantee
to negligence.
The rates of poftageimpofedon news
papers were pronounced to be so high
as to amount to a prohibition : —an ex
tensive and minute establishment of
post-roads had been gone into :—man)
of these cannot be supported by the or
dinary conveyance of letters ; and if the
newspapers are, by too high a tax, ex
cluded from the mails, these roads can
not be supported at all : —A reduction oi
the postage, to half the rate established.
would yield a greater profit.
The question being taken on the re
solution, and having passed in the af
firmative—(yeas 27 ; nays ( not counted
about seventeen) —Mr. Gerry, Mr. Mui
ray, and Mr. Findley were appointed :
committee, to bring in a bill purfuani
thereto.
A meftage was delivered by Mr. Se
cretary Otis, notifying, that the Senate
had agreed to the report of the confer
rees, on the disagreeing amendment tc
the Frontier Bill—— flhe House had
on their part, agreed to the report
whilst the doors were shut yesterday. ]
Veryfoon after the delivery of the
foregoing meftage,
Mr. S. Bourne, from the committee
of enrolment, presented to Mr. Speak
er the bill in question, duly enrolled : —
Mr. Speaker signed the fame ; and be
fore the House rose, the committee
waited on of the Unitec
States, and him the bill foi
Ins approbation.
Mr. Findley presented a memorial
fiom the Directors of the Ohio coi;>.pa^
Numb. 38.
Ny, which was referred to a special com
mittee, confiding of Meflieurs Sedg
wick Findley, Benfon, Learned and
Baldwin. . . , .
Mr. Grove called up a resolution,
which he, some time ago, had laid on the
table : and the House having adopted
it, a committee was, in pursuance
thereof, appointed to bring in a 1 or
firiifhing a light-house on Bald Head at
the mouth of Cape Fear River in the
state of North Carolina.
Mr. Murray gave notice, that hs will
on Tuelday next, call up the report of
the feleft committee, on the memoria
of Mr. Cutting. . ,
The order of the day being called
for
° The House resolved itfelf into a com
mittee of the whole, on the Mihtia
• Mr. B. Bourne in the chair.
A'motion (made yesterday by Mr.
Livermore) to strike out the 10th lec
tion, having, after some debate, been
negatived the feftion was amended,
and, together with the remainder oi the
bill, agreed to:
Mr. Barnwell, for the purpose (as he
alledeed) of leaving the states at liberty
to train their refpe&ive Militia oftener
than is prescribed by the Bill, moved
for the insertion of an additional lecti
on, as follows :
" And be it further enacted, That no
thine in this act shall be conflrued to
prevent any state from eftabhfhing
such further regulations, for more ef
fectually training their militia, accor
ding to the foreigning rules of discipline,
as the Legislature thereof lhall think
proper."
" Mr. Livermore recommended to
the honorable gentleman to tack the fol
lowing proviloto his section, in cafe
he wiihed it to pais : • •
"Provided that this ast, or any clause
or feftion therein contained, fhaii not
abridge the authority of the particular .
states, in training their militia according
to the discipline hferein prescribed —.
This (he said) would be paying some
little refpeft to the authority of the
states ; and would shew to the public,
that Congress do not mean to counter
act the constitution.
The question being taken on Mr.
Barnwell's amendment, passed in the
negative j—yeas, 15 J nays(wo£ counted)
about 23.
Mr. Boudinot proposed two addition*
al sections asfollows .
" And be it further enabled, That in or
der to prevent any injury arising from
drawing off the workmen at certain
works and manufactories hereafter na
med, to attend the several days of ren
dezvous as aforefaid, it shall and may
be lawful for the commander in chief
of each state to appoint proper officers
at all furnaces for manufacturing of i
i on, and all works for manufacturing of
glass, if any such lhall be within the
st ate ; whose duty it lhall be to form
the workmen, manufacturers, and la
borers belonging thereto, into a compa
ny or companies, in manner aforefaid,
or as nearly thereto as circumstances
will admit, and to train, exercise and
discipline them in manner directed ,by
law, excepting as to the place, which
lhall always be at the works or manu
factories, and excepting the meetings
in regiment or battalion, in lieu of
which they shall meet in companies at
the said works and manufactories in
manner aforefaid. And the said work
men, manufacturers, and laborers lhall
be excused from all other militia duty,
except in times of invasion or insurrec
tion."
" And be it farther enabled That the
Commander in chief of each, state shall,
on the requisition of the President of
the United States, authorized thereto
by the express aCts of Congress, order
out any proportion of the militia of
the state, so required as aforefaid, to
march to any part of the United State*for the protection or c'efencc of the fame ;
provided that they be not compelled to con
tinue on duty out of the state, without their
content, for a longer time than. months,
at any one time that, while in actual
lervice in consequence of being so called
out, they lhall receive the fame pay and ra
tions, and be subject to the fame rules and
regulations, as the troops of the United
States of America."
A motion however being made for the
committee's rising,
Mr. Boudinot reserved the two feftions.
to bring them forward in the House.
The committee rose and reported the
bill with the amendments. Adjourned.
Saturday, March 3.
Mr. Goodhue, from the committee, pre
sented a bill for enrolling and licenling ves
sels employed in the coasting trade and tifh
tries; which was twice read and orderec
to be referred to a committee of the whole
House on Thursday next.
A message was received from the Presi
dent of the United States, inclosing a returr
of the number of inhabitants in the diftri£i
oi South-Carolina—which was ordered tt
lie on the table.
The House took into confederation the
amendments proposed by the Senate to the
bill for ascertaining and regulating the
claims to half-pay, and to invalid pensions—
Some were agreed to, others disagreed to
Mr. Boudinot, from the committee tc
whom was referred a motion relative to e
statement of balances remaining unpaid ir
the public books of the Treasury depart
ment, made a report, that it will be impof
iible to obtain the report of the state of ac
counts contemplated in the resolution, du
ring the present feflion, without greatly re
tarding the current business of the depart
ment ; and that it will be inexpedient tc
take any resolution on the subject mattei
of the resolution referred to them.
A petition was read from Timothy Pick
ering, late quarter-malter-general, praying
that the Treasury officers may be authoriz
ed to apply a certain sum of money, hereto
fore granted to discharge the claims againfl
his department, to the payment of the de
mands of certain public creditors in the
ltate of New-York, who are from their pe
culiar circumstances, unjustly precluded b)
the ast of limitation.—This, with fevera
other petitions, was referred to the Secre
tary of the Treasury, to examine and re
port thereon.
Petitions were read from sundry inhabi
tants ot the county of Chefterj in Pennfyl
vanta, praying a repeal of the ast laying ;
duty on such home distilled spirits as are
made from the produce of the Unitec
States.—Ordered to lie on the table.
A report from the Secretary of the Trea
sury, refpefting compensations to tfie com
jniffioners of loans, was read and referret
to a feleft committee.
Several private petitions were read anc
referred.
Monday, March j.
The Speaker laid before the House a let
ter from the Secretary of state accompany
ing a copy of the laws adopted and publish
ed by the Governor and judges of the ter
ritory north-weft of the river Ohio, ir
1791 —Read, and referred to a committee.
Mr. Grove, from the committee, pre
feuted a bill for tinifhing the Light House
at the mouth ot Cape Fear river in North-
Carolina— Read twice, and ordered to be
committed to a committee of the whole or
Tuefelay.
A melfage was received from the Senate
by Mr. Otis, informing the House that the
Senate have passed the bill " for the reliei
of certain widows, orphans, invalids anc
other persons," with several amendments
to which the concurrence of the House i{
desired.
A written message was received from the
President of the United States, by Mr.
Lear, as follows :—Gentlemen of the Se
nate and of the House of Representatives,
Knowing the friendly interest you take ir
whatever may promote the happiness anc
prosperity of the French nation, it is wit!
pleal'ure that I lay before you the tranfla
tion of a letter which I have received frorr
his most Christian Majesty, announcing tc
the United States of America, his accep
tance of the constitution presented to hin
byhisnation. G. WASHINGTON.
Translation of a letter from the King oi
France, of Sept. 19, 1791.
Very dear, great friends and Allies,
WE make it our duty to inform you,
that we have accepted the Constitution
which has been presented to us in the name
of the nation, and according to which
1 ranee will be henceforth governed.
We do not doubt that you take an inter
est in an event so important to our king
dom and tons ; and it is with real pleasure
we take this occasion to renew to you as
surances of the sincere friendfhip we bear
you.—Whereupon we pray God to have
you, very dear great friends and allies, in
his just and holv keeping. —Written at Pa
ris the 19th of September, 1791.
Your good Friend and Ally,
(Signed) LOUIS.
(Signed) MONTMORIN.
The United States of North-America.
The meflage and inclofures were order
ed to lie on the table.
A meflage was received from the Senate,
fignifying, that they insist on all their a
mendments, disagreed to by the House oi
Reprefeutatives to the Bill for ascertaining
and regulating claims to half pay and inva
lid penlions, and to dellre a conference oi:
this fubjeft—which was agreed to by the
House and managers appointed to meet the
managers named by the Senate at said con
ference.
A meflage was received from the Presi
dent, notifying, that he had ligned the afi
making provillon for the more etfeftua
protection of the frontiers,
1 he Militia Bill with the amendment:
proposed by the committee of the whole
was then taken up, and some of those a
mendments agreed to ; others were reject
ed, and iome additional amendmentsmade.
After which, it was ordered that the Bill be
recommitted to a committee of the whole.
Tuesday, March 6.
Sundry petitions were read and referred
A representation from the legislature o
North-Carolina, was read, refpeftTtig cer
tain lands ceded to the Indians in the ter
ritory southwest of the Ohio.
Mr. Parker introduced the following re
solution, which being seconded, was kid oi
the table —viz.
Relolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury be directed to report what mo
ney, if any, now Remains in the treasury
of appropriations made previous to the
year 1791 — dirtinguifhing what sums remair
of the refpeftive appropriations.
Air. Williamfon laid the following mo
tion on the table—That a committee be ap
pointed to report a bill to amend the impof
law, so far as to permit the landing of fall
at certain warehouses belonging to the fifh
eries—and to provide for the allowance oj
a drawback on the fait used on provision:
exported.
The militia bill was brought in, engros
sed, and read the third time.
Mr. \ ining then moved that the bil
fliould oe re-committed —This motion, af
ter debate, was negatived—2B to 27. The
House then proceeded to fill up the blanks
which being completed, the ayes and noe 1
were called on the palling the bill—anc
were, ayes 31, noes 27.
Mr. Gerry reported a bill for reducing
the rates of portage on newspapers— this
bdl proposes a reduction of the portage to
one halt the rates in the port-office law.
A report was read from the Secretary ol
the Treasury, refpefting the diflicultie;
whicn have occurred in the execution oi
the excise, &c. and 100 copies ordered tc
be printed- Adjourned.
In the Senate of the United States, or
Thwfday the iji of March.
Mr. Sherman, from thejoint committee
appointed to consider and report what busi
ness is neceflary to be done by Congress in
the present feflion, and what part of the bu
siness now depending may be without greal
inconvenience postponed to the fef
lion of Congress, that the proceedings ma)
be so regulated as to close this feflion, bj
the firft Tuesday of April next, —Reported,
and the report was read, and ordered te
lie for conlideration.
The report is as follows :
1 • A bill for regulating procefles in the
Courts of the United States.
2 A bill on the report of the Secretary
of the Treasury, on the fubjeft of the pub
lic debt.
3. Amendments to the excise act.
4. The bill for the protection of the
frontiers.
j. An ast for the apportionment of re
presentatives.
6. A bill providing for the settlement of
claims of persons under particular circum
stances, barred by the resolves of limita
tion.
7. A bill for the relief of certain wi
dows, orphans, invalids, and other persons.
8. A bill to regulate the claims to hall
pay and invalid penlions.
9. A bill to compensate the officers of the
customs.
10. A bill for compensating the loan of
ficers.
11. A bill for registering the veflels
12. A bill for regulating the coartinj:
trade
13. A bill for regulating the militia
14- A bill for eftablilhing a mint
15- A bill to provide the monies neces
sary for protecting the frontiers
16. A bill for making alterations in the
treasury and war departments.
The committee further reported, that in
their opinion, it will be expedient to attend
to the following business cluring the prefenl
feflion, if it can be done, .before the firft
Tuesday of April next, at iSrhich time the
two Houses have proposed to'adjourn.
1. A bill refpefting fugitives from jus
tice.
2. A bill concerning the office of -attor
ney-General.
3. A bill to expenses of
the late commifiionpfs for trading with the
Creek Indians, j
4. A bill gran|gg further compenfati-
ons to certain receivers of continental
taxes.
5. A hit! for giving efficacy to certain acts
of Georgia, Maryland, and Rhode-Island.
6. A bill concerning consuls and vice
confuls.
7. The report of the Secretary of the
Treafnry on the fubjeft of manufactures.
8. A bill to direst the finifhing the light
house on Bald Head, in North-Carolina.
The committee are further of opinion,
that the consideration of the following
fubjefts may, without inconvenience, be
postponed until the next session.
1. A bill to regulate trade and inter
course with the Indian tribes.
2. A bill to eftablilh a land officer for the
sale of theWeflern Lands,
3. A bill respecting bankruptcy.
4. The Attorney-General's Report on
the judicial system.
j. Propositions of amendment to the
constitution.
From the American Daily Advertiser ofMonday lajl,
Mr. DunlAp,
IT has been a well known trick with corrupt
clergy, when their evil ways have been
pointed out and reproved, to call it an attack on
religion, made by its secret enemies. So it
seems to me to be the policy of some who come
forward in answer to ftriflures of the press, on
certain public measures and proceedings, to
brand it as a design to overturn the government.
The trick, however, is too stale to pass. When
it is seen and known to the people, that the
members of the government, and the few favor
ed by them, have been the greatest gainers by
all the measures of the government, there mufi
be good proof to the contrary, before the peo
ple will believe that all has been right, and that
the cry that the government is attacked, and in
danger, is not raised by the craft who are alarm
ed tor themselves at the spirit of enquiry and the
voice of truth, which have come forth. Prudent
people will rather therefore become more suspi
cious when they hear these appeals from the me
rits of the business to their fears and their sup
posed prejudices. God forbid it ffiould turn
out that there be any such among us as wilL to
dellroy the government by faflions and intrigues.
I hope there may be none such. But if there
be, is there not more jull ground tofufpeft those
who unceasingly praise and puff all the public
measures which tend to raise the few into a splen
did opulence, and to generate monarchial and
corrupt principles and habits, rather than those
who feel disgust at these perversions of the go
vernment, and, in their alarm for liberty and
-AUTHENTIC.
Schedule of the whole Number of Inhabitants within the State of
SOUTH-CAROLINA.
P arijlies. Counties. DiJlnSs.
All Saints Georgetown 104 102 223 1! 1795 2225
Prince Georges do, 1450 2236 80 6651 11762
Prince Frederick do. 907 9:5 u 9 6 32) 4685 813*
_.r -, Cheraws 1779 1993 3646 59 3229 10706
rairfield Camden 1335 1874, 2929 1485 7623
Chester do. 1446 1604 2831 47 938 6866
prk do. 1350 1612 2690 29 923 6604
Richland do. 596 710 1173 14 1437 3930
Clarendon do. 444 <;i6 830 602 2392
Claremont do. 517 841 1080 2110 4548
Lancafler do. 1253 '537 20 74 68 1370 6302
Edgefield Nineiy Six 2333 2571 4701 65 3619 13280
Pendleton do. 2007 2535 4189 3 834 9568
Spartanburgh do. 1868 2173 3866 27 866 88cc
Abbeville do. '9°4 194§ 3653 27 1665 9197
Laurens do. 2270 3971 7 1120 9337
Grenville do. 1400 1627 2861 9 606 (5503
Union do. 1500 1809 3131 48 1215 7693
Newberry do. 1992 2232 39621 12 1144 <5342
Beaufort 1266 10,55 2043! 153 14236; 18753
North part Orangeburgh 1780 1693 325!? 21 4539] 11281
South do. do. 1421 1478 2782 149 1402 7232
St. Michaels f Chaileflown 2810 1561 3718 586 7684 16359
St.Bartholomes do. 625 491 1017 135 10338 12606
St. Johns Berkley do. 2 °9 J 5 2 331 60 ,5170 5922
St. Georges, Dorchester do. 337 3 11 604 25 3022 4299
St. Stephens do. 81 45 100 1 2506 2733
Stjames Santee do. >40 110 *87 15 3345 3797
St. Thomases do. '45 6 7 185 34 3405 3836
ChriftChurch do. '56 2 7 2 U 2377 2954
St. James Goose Creek do. J S B 79 2 ° 2 15 2333 2787
St. Johns Colleton do. 20 9 »°4 2 7 2 22 4705 5312
St. Andrews do. 12 5 7 1 >74 3 1 2 54 6 2947
St. Pauls do. 65 48 103 15 3202 3433
I 35576137722668801801 107094 249073
I do hereby certify the above to be a just return of the Census of
the State of South-Carolina, as taken by my Afliftants. Given
under my hand this fifth day of February, 1792.
R HUGE R, Fed. Marjhal.
republican systems, give too flrong vent perhaps
to their indignation.—For my part, I do veiily
believe, that the former alone are to be dreaded.
There never yet was a good government pulled
down by freely and boldly taxing its proceedings:
whereas arbitrary governments have been often
built up by varnishing iheir doings, and free
ones turned into arbitrary ones, by blindly fub
mitiing to the gradual change brought about by
abuses of power, and the subtle workings of
the enemies to the popular rights.
Let those who deny that abuses have prevail
ed, and even corruption, come forth and appeal
to the true tefl. Let Jails bring in the verditf.
Ourprelent worthy Governor, it may be re
memhered, was once attacked, with charges of
having made his fortune, by base means, out of
an office he had held. As he was innocent, his
friends didnotflifle enquiry —but wifhedfor it—
and he himfelf to his immortal honor, inflead of
shunning invefligation, took the mod effectual of
all fieps to clear himfelf and confound hisaceu
fers—for he made out a schedule of his property
when he went into office, and another when he
came out, and by comparing these together (the
truth of which could be pretty well judged of
by those who knew his affairs) he fliewed that ha
had not availed himfelf of the means of pecula
tion, or official occasions, of getting rich
Query—Whether the members of the federal
legiflatuie could fland thisffy??—And if it be
found that some are lich now, who were poor,
in a manner, heretofore, and that the change
has been made without any ordinary or vifiblt
means therefor, then suspicion at leaf! will ope
rate —and if no such change be found, then it
would die away, and the public be easy. But
sooner than take this course, it is more likely to
fee attempts to ridicule and burlesque the idea,
which iscommonly the refuge of those who wish
to turn the attention of the public from a sober
pursuit of fufpefled iniquity.
But if the example of our worthy Governor
be too terrible, or be otherwise obje&ionable,
ill the present cafe, let the fubferibers' names
to the bank, where the fubferibers are men who
had a hand in that work, be printed, and let it
be seen, by the faQ, whether there is ground to
fufpeft the individuals of the government of
speculating and making fortunes, in their owa
measures if it appeal, that this has been
done, every honest man will have his thoughts,
and every free man will dare to express them,
in spite of any falfc alarms of intcrcftcd men, that
the government (in reality themielves only) is
in danger. But little is such a publication to
be expefled. For besides, that disagreeable
' truths might come to light, such a proceeding
would be very popular, and it is the fajhion now
a-days to despise popularity.
A SPECTATOR.
S Oo
S" cj J" !TN a
? S. o=l s v §^ e
3 $• 3: 1
*5> §Le $ ~ s ; |
3 <S>
1 l-Ui
St l'„. a
•- ?§- « e\®
• «" S &•5
s>- §- ,? 5
2 'PHILADELPHIA.
March 8, 1792.
Proposals are advertised to be received
at the office of the Secretary of the Trea
sury until Wednesday afternoon the 21ft in
stant, for a large quantity of cloathing for
the troops in the service of the United
States, —viz. 4(08 hats, 4608 coats, 4608
vests, 8668 woolen overalls, 9216 linen ditto,
183-6 pairs of (hoes, 18460 lhirts, 7956
pairs of socks, 4608 blankets—ditto flocks—
ditto stock clasps—ditto pairs of buckles.
For the cavalry ; — 320 caps, 320 coats, 320
vests, 320 pairs of leather breeches—64o
pairs of boots, 320 ditto spurs, 640 ditto
{lockings, 1280 lhirts, 320 blankets t 320
flocks, 320 stock clasps—also 1200 rifle
lhirt», to be made of RuJJia sheeting.
At a large meeting of the citizens of Al
bany, on the nomination of the Hon. Judge
Jay, and Mr. Van Renlellear, as governor
and lieutenant governor of the state of
New-York, only five votes appeared a
gainst them—the fame unanimity in their
favour appeared in every place from
whence information had been received—
an idea beginning to prevail through those
parts of the country, that rotation is
absolutely neceflary in the office of repub
, lican Governor.
Mr. Spillard the celebrated English tra
veller, arrived at Savannah, in Georgia, on
the 14th of February last. He was to leave
that city in a few days for New Orleans,
taking the Indian foot paths through the
country. At New Orleans he was to meet
Lord Fitzgerald, who was on his way there
from Quebec. They were then to pro
ceed in company up the Milfifippi to the
Miflouri, which they intended to explore
to its source, and from thence, if poliible,
travel to the head of the Oregon [or river of
the well] which falls into the south seas.
It is remarkable that so long after the
engagement with the Indians as the sth of
January (two mo the dead bodies of
the (lain were ftili untouched by wild ani
mals.—The party that went to reconnoitre
the place, found the small arms all broken
on the field, and the bayonets thrust
through the bodies of the dead.
The latter end of January several severe
fliocks of an earthquake were felt in dif
ferent and distant parts of Jamaica. It
does not appear that any considerable da
mage has been done by these (hocks.
The plunder taken by the Indians, on the
4th of Nov. last, exclusive of arms, cloath
ing, watches, &c. is said to have been two
bushels of hard money, leven Hundred pack
horfes, and two hundred bullocks.
The packet Franklin, lately arrived at
New-\ork from L'Orient, had not forty
dayspaflage, as mentioned in several New-
York and Philadelphia papers, but was
twelve weeks and four days in reaching her
destined port. Why the French packets,
bound to this continent, have almost inva
riably much longer palfages than the heavi
est merchant ships, is not certainly known.
These veflels for the molt part are good
sailers, and well found : conjectures there
fore might be formed, either that they are
not conducted by persons well acquainted
with the northern Atlantic navigation, or,
that being scantily manned, they are obli
ged to be over-cautious as to carrying fail
during the night.
Repeated complaints appear in some of
the Boston papers, of a restless spirit among
a part of the citizens of Boston for incorpora
ting that capital, with city privileges, 8c c. Tories
are said to be at the head of the party for
incorporation. What is particularly de
signated by persons of this denomination, at pre
sent, is not expressly said—they are, howe
ver, (negatively) described as the friends of
aristocracy ; and in direst opposition to the
industrious tradesman, the enlightened pa
triot, and the true republican ; sticklers
for monied influence ; and such as would
prevent their poorer neighbours from rtand
ing up for equal privileges with them in
the highest acts of town governments.
The legislature of Maflachufetts have be
fore them, for consideration, the report oi
a committee appointed to enquire into the
practicability of cutting a navigable canal
between Barnftable and Buzzard's bay- - al
so, the report of another committee on the
subject of a separation of the diftrift of
Maine ; upon which they have determined
that a notification be made to ascertain the
sense of the inhabitants, whether they wili
generally agree to a separation or not. —
The report of the committee on Buzzard':-
bay canal has been since agreed to, and sent
to the upper house for concurrence.
Letters from Cape Francois inform, that
a detachment of three hundred men of the
Welsh-Irish regiment landed there on the
27th of January, together with five hundred
of the regiment of Provence, and a large
quantity of artillery, shot, and other milita
ry stores.-The ships, with fix thousand
more troops, were in fightof the island, ha
ving on board three millions (of livres) in
tended to relieve the wants of the colony.
Thirty thousand more trccps were soon
looked for. The mulattoes and negroes, as
their lad effort, had entirely burnt and ra
vaged all that highly cultivated part of Hi
fpaniola, called La Plaine, and committed
the most shocking murders.
A committee of their body, has been appoint"
by the Senate of the United Stares, to consider
the expediency of building a Light-House on
Montock-Point a dangerous proje£tion of land
on the south fide of Long-Island, state of New-
York.
On the 14th of January, the anniveifary of the
Ugly Club was celebrated in Charleston (S.
C.) with all the joy and feftivity inseparable
from the occasion. WjLLIAM Price, Ffq.
was elected president for the eTifuing year. —
Numerous applications for admittance, it is
said, were made during the late year, but few
found fufficiently qualified for enrollment.
Meflieurs North and Vefey, owners of a flou
rifhing Rope Manufactory in the vicinity ol
Charleston, have unfortunately fuffered a loss of
30001. sterling, by their buildings taking fire on
the 20th of January, wherein was a large quan
tity of cordage, hemp, yarn, &e. which wereaU
most entirely con fumed.
On the 26th of the fame month, in Charles
ton, a house narrowly escaped being consumed
by means of a globular decanter, which had been
accidentally placed in a window fronting the
south. The rays of the fun pafling through the
decanter, colle&ed to a focus, and set fire to a
mahogany flab, which instantly kindled into a
blaze; but was discovered in time to prevent
further mifchief.
The total number of the inhabitants of South
Carolina, according to the laftcenfus, is 249,073*
Dedu&ing from this number two-fifths of the
slaves, according to the rule prescribed in the
constitution, and there wiH remain 206,236,
which number will, according to the ratio ol
30,000 eftabhfiied in the bill row pending,
entitle South Carolina to fix representatives, and
leave a surplus of 26,236.
Tranjlated extract of a letter from France, Dec. 1.
" It is the general opinion of people of dis
cernment here, that all the powers of Europe
are at this moment aftinga hypocritical par t to
wards Prance. Hardly a doubt exists, with the
better informed, that the ex-pnnces are more or
less aflifted by these powers with money, and
even encouraged to try their fortune in the inva
sion of their native country in the spring. This
idea, and this only, accounts for the obftinatc
opposition of the princes, and their refufal to
return into the kingdom, which might, if not
thus supported, be justly denominated rashness,
desperation and madness. An opinion exists
throughout Europe, with regard to France, a
good deal like that which prevailed in Er.glancl
Tvirti refpeft to America, during the whole of
the unfortunate war between the mother country
and the then colonies ; that is, that the greater
part of the people were difaffe&ed to the ufurpea
government, and were only waiting a powerful
support to declare themselves and rejlore the old do
mination.—The European poweis, it is thought,
will in this affair a6l towards the princes much
in the manner France did towards America —
(not, 1 hope, with similar success) —They will be
supported in a private manner, will be urged on
to invade France, and if they should then be
oined by those innumerable hosts, those irrita
ted millions, who, it is pretended, are groaning
under the tyranny of those ambitious dema
gogues, the national afTcmbly and their adherents:
the emperor, and the reft of them, will then
throw off tne masque, and immediately re-esta
blish despotism. 1 here is no Joubt that they all
reckon France too great an objcfcl to be loft tc
the common cavfe 9 if there be a poftibility tc
prevent it; and they well know, that if France
does really become the freeft kingdom in Eu
rope, her freedom will as naturally in a short
time pervade the other parts, in the fulleft ex
tent ot the word, as water finds its level. With
regard to an irwafion of the eastern frontieis,
it is therefore more than probable it will be made
in some force, with a view to feel the pulse ol
the nation. 1 hat it will not succeed is morally
certain to every man who travels through the
kingdom, as I have done, and is not blinded by
prejudice, the nation being now determined and
unanimous, and the great reservoir of the baft
blcod exported into Germany. The Pope has
loft Avignon, Carpentras, and the territory Ve
naiffen, a delightful fertile country in the midfi
cf'France, formerly gifted to the Pope by a
worthless monarch, and now resumed into the
hands of the people, to whom these provinces
justly belong."
Extract of a letter from Cape Francois,
dated 6th Feb. 1792, received by the
Brig Hetty, Capt. W. Davis.
%i We have at last the pleasure to advise
you, that rioo men are arrived from
France, & will be followed \vith49oo more :
these forces would have been here sooner
but the transports were ordered to if op
at Cadiz to take up a sum of money for
government. This arrival keeps up our
spirits : it was high time to flop the mur
ders of the mulattoes at the South part ol
chis Island. The AfTembly sent immedi
ately 400 men to the Cayes St. Louis,
where the mulattoes ast in a horrid man -
ner. It has always been told, that in the
whole there are 18000 destined for our as
sistance ; but we begin to doubt it will be
too extensive, and very sorry to add, in
Come regard too lite, the negroes having
destroyed this last month a vast quantity
of plantations, and put fire to the ripe fit
gar canes—the only hope left to the plant
ers entering again on their property, tc
make a final! revenue to live on.
" All our produce is raised to exorbitant
prices—Sugar <>o to 1321. Coffee 25 to 30s.
Cocoa 1 5 to 16s. Molafles ico to 120s. per
vel. Hoar 6 dollars, Rice 26 to 28I."
The agricultural society of Paris have
not contented themselves with barely re
commendinggood books on the fubjeft of agri
culture to those engaged in the cultivatior
of lan l : They have formed an affoclatior
of people who have fubferibed 300 livref
or 60 dollars each for printing good ele
mentary works on agriculture, ori a plan i'c
economical, that they may be fold at half
the uf'ual price. One of the aflbciation ha;
undertaken to print them for the price oi
the labour and materials. The capital be
ing returned by the sale of the books, wil
serve always for the fame purpofe.—Tlu
common class of farmers, it is observed, di
not read, not from want of inclination, but
on account of the h'gh price of the general
ity of agricultural books. Such as the)
can get for nothing they read with avidity.
A friend to mankind would therefore ima
gine, that by reducing good works on agri
culture to a price within the reach of tht
less wealthy class of farmers, at a time
when the periodical papers have renderec
them fond of reading, it would not be dif
ficult to eradicate prejudices, convey ti
them information, and promote their gen
eral welfare.
" The great inequality of property Yfay.'
the Boflon Argus of the 21ft tilt.) occasion
ed principally by a number of highly favor
ed men, having an almost certain know
ledge of the mode of establishing the Uni
ted States securities jmd the funding fy
item, may be named as one of the cause
of the late expedition against the Indians
as it gave them influence and confequentli
an opportunity of uniting with some othei
characters (to some of whom grants hat
been previously made) of purcliafing land
upon the Ohio, of Ccngrefs, and obtain
ing froin Congress an army in order to ex
tirpate the Indians, its proper owners —
but, the misfortune attending the expediti
on will occasion an enquiry into the pro
priety of the measure."—American glor)
ought not to be sullied for the fake of con
veying to insatiable Bashaws " more a
cres than fall to the share of many Europe
an princes to govern."
AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firfl Session, begun and held at the city o
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennfylvanic
on Monday the twenty-fourth of O&oher, om
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT for making farther and more ejfe£lua>
Provision for the Protection of the Frontiers of tht
United States.
BE it enc£led by the Senate and House of Repre
fentati'ves of the United States of America i?
Congress aJJ'embledy That the battalion of artiller)
now in Itrvice be completed according to tht
establishment, and that the two regiments of in
tautry now in lervice, be completed to the num
ber of nine hundred and sixty non-commiflionei:
officers, privates and musicians each.
And be it further enatted, That there fiiall be
raised for a term not exceeding three years, three
additional regiments, each of which,' exclufivel)
of the commilfioned officers, shall confiftofnim
hundred and sixty non-commifiioned officers, pli
vatts and musicians j and that one of the said re
giments ue organized in the following manner
that is to fay, two battalions of infantry, each o;
which, exclufivcly of the commifiioned officers
fhali consist of three hundred and twenty non
commifiioned officers, privates and musicians ; anc
one squadron of light dragoons which, exclusive!}
of the commifiioned office)s, fliall confifl of thre<
hundred and twenty non-commifiioned officers
privates and mulician? j and that it shall be a con
dition in the enlistment of the said dragoons, tc
lerve as dismounted dragoons, whenever they fhal,
be ordered thereto : That the organization of the
said Iquadron of light dragoons shall be, as fol
lows, to wit ; one major, one adjutant, one quar
termalter, one surgeon's mate, and four troops,
each of which lhall consist of one captain, one
lieutenant, one cornet, four ferjeants, four corpo
rals, one farrier, one saddler, one trumpeter and
sixty-nine dragoons j and the President may arir
the said troops, as he shall think proper.
Provided always, and he it further enaEled t Thai
<t shall be lawful for the President of the UniteL
S'ates to organize the said five regiments of in
fantry, ana the said corps of horse and artillery,
as he shall judge expedient, oiminifhing the num
ber of corps, or taking from one corps and adding
to another, as shall appear to him proper, so thai
the whole number of officers and men shall not ex
ceed the limits above prescribed : Provided, Thai
the said three regiments fiiall bedifcharged as soon
as the United States shall be at peace with the In
dian tribes.
And be it further enabled. That the non-com
mifhoned officers, privates and musicians of the
laid three regiments, shall be inlifted for the term
of three years, unless previously discharged.
And be it further ena&ed y That every recruit 3
who shall be inlifted by virtue of this adt, fiiall
receive dt s bounty, and that the fame
hall be made tip to the fion-comm'ffioned
rivates and musicians now in service, who have
enlisted for three years, since the passing of the
ift intituled (t An ast for regulating the military
;'ftablifliment of the United States*
And be it further enaflsd, That the ComrTiif
iioned officers, who {hall be employed to recruit
for the military establishment, {hall be entitled to
receive, for every recruit, duly inlifted and mus
tered, two dollars.
And be it further enaEied, That the monthly
;.>ay of the commissioned officers, non-commis
sioned officeis, privates and musicians, on the mi
itary establishment of the United State?, and of
he three regiments authorized by this ast, /hall
bp, in future, as follows, free of all deductions,
co witl—General Staff — A major-general,
ne hundred and sixty-six dollars* A brigadier
general, one hundred and four dollars. Quarter
matter, one hundred dollars. Adjutant, to do alfa
the duty Of infpeftor, feventy-five dollars* Chap
lain, fifty dollars* Surgeon, seventy dollars* De
vuty-quarter-mafter, fifty dollars. Aid-de-camp,
11 addition to his pay in the line, twenty-four dol-*
iars. Brigade major, to ast also as deputy in
'peftor, in addition to his pay In the line, twenty*
fourdollars. Brigade major, to ast also as depu
ty infpeftor, in addition to his pay in the line,
:wenty-four dollars. Principal artificer, forty dol
lars. Second artificer, twenty-fix dollars.---R e
c Iment a l —Lieutenant-colonel commandant,
leventy-five dollars. Major commandant of ar
tillery, and major of dragoons, fifty-five dollars*
Paymaster, in addition to his pay in the line, ten
dollars. Quarter-master, in addition to his pay
r» the line, eight dollars. Adjutant, in addition
to his pay in the line, ten dollars* Majors of in
fantry, fifty dollars. Captains, forty dollars.
Lieutenants, twenty-fix dollars. Ensigns and cor
nets, twenty dollars. Surgeons, forty-five dol
lars. Mates, thirty dollars. Serjeant-majors and
quarter-mafter-ferjeants, seven dollars. Senior
musicians fix dollars. Serjeants, fix dollars. Cor
porals, five dollars. Privates, three dollars.
Musicians, four dollars. Artificers allowed to the
infantry, light dragoons, and artillery, and inclu
ded as privates, eight dollars. Matrons and nurses
• n the hospital, eight dollars.
And be it further enacted, That the rations, or
money in lieu thereof, for the commissioned, non
commissioned officers, privates and musicians of
the additional troops herein mentioned, /hall be
the fame, as described in the aforefaid ad, inti
tuled " An ast for regulating the military esta
blishment of the United Stares," and in the ast
palled irt? the third session of the firft Congress, inti
tuled " An ast for raising and adding another re
giment to the military eftablifliment of the Uni
ted States, and for making farther provision for
che protection of the frontiers.**
And be it further efiafted> That the forage, to
be allowed to the officers of the additional regi
ments authorized by this ast, be the fame as des
cribed by the acts before mentioned.
And be it further enaßed, That the allowance
of for non-commissioned officers and
privates of the infantry of the said three regi
ments, shall be the fame, as is by law eftablifhrd :
that 1 uitable clothing be provided for the cavalry,
and adapted to the nature of the service, and con
formed as near as may be, to the value of the
clothing allowed to the infantry and artillery.
And be it further ena&ed, That all the' com
mifhoned, and non-commissioned officers, privates
and musicians of the said three regiments, {hall
rake the fame oaths, {hall be governed bv the fame
rules and regulations, and in cases of difablities,
(hall receive the fame compensations, as are def
-ribed in the beforementioned ast, intituled " An
■ft for regulating the military establishment of the
CJnited States."
And be it further enafied, That it fliall be law
(ul for the President of the United States, to for
bear to raise, or to discharge, after they {hall be
aifed, the whole or any part of the said three ad
ditional regiments, in cafe events {hall in his judg
ment, render his so doing consistent with the pub
lic fafety.
And be it further entitled, That the President be,
ind he hereby is authorized, from time to time,
l ° ca " into service, and for such periods as he may
deem requ.fite, such number of cavalry as, in his
judgment, may be necessary for the protection of
ae frontiers : Providedy That non-commission
ed officers {hall not be allowed more than one dol
lar per day, nor the privates more than feventy
five cents per day, each person finding his horse,
arms and accoutrements, and at his own risque,
and twenty-five cents per day in lieu of rations and
forage : Provided he furnifh himfelf therewith.
And be it further enacted, That the President
alone be, and he hereby is authorized to appoint,
(or the cavalry so to be engaged, the proper com
missioned officers, who {hall not exceed, in num
ber and rank, the proportions assigned to the said
three regiments, and whose pay and other allow
ances {hall not, exclusively of fifty cents per day
for the use and risque of their horses, exceed those
of officers of corresponding rank, in the said regi
ments.
And be tt further enured. That the President of
the United States be authorized, in cafe he {hall
deem the measure expedient, to employ such num
ber of the Indians, and for such compensations,
as he may think proper : Provided, The said com
pensations do not, in the whole, exceed twenty
thousand dollars.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of the
House of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United States, and President
of the Senate.
Approved, March the fifth, 1792.
G. Washington, President of the
United States.
This Day are published,
SERMONS,
Historical and Chara&eriftical
By WILLIAM LINN, D. D.
Sold by T. DOBSON, R. CAMPBELL.
M. CAREY.
[Price Three Quarters of a Dollar.']ON TREES in CITIES.
A Citizen may be termed an artificial being,
as both his residence and means of life are
the peculiar effedt of art. The very ground he
walks upon is not that which nature traced out.
it is on the contrary a pavement, made with great
care and expence j and his profpedts, instead of
being bounded by the works of nature, are com
monly limited by a brick wall, a steeple, and
ths fcirefome uniform regularity of a street.
Long habit, or necefiity, can alone reconcile a
man to a city life j the savage, and even the ci
vilized rustic, revolts at the idea, and pities the
mechanic, the shopman, or still more refpe&a
ble characters, for being immersed amidst smoke,
foul air, and other squalid appendages of a large
town, without perhaps the power of removing
therefrom.
Even those, however, who seem to have be
come reconciled to a city lire, have their fits of
disgust at being thus penned up, and, if they can
any way afford it, at Jeaft once a year play tru
ant, and gratify themselves with the rude and na
tural scenes of the country.
A city, then, being the constrained residence of
so many thousands of men, what wonder that
they have not, generally, taken more pains to
transplant the imitative works of nature (such as
a row of fine trees) through the tedious uninter
rupted sameness of an extended street. ! —
Legislatures and city corporations have ever
been inimical to trees in cities.—About nine years
ago the attempt was made in Philadelphia to cut
down all the trees—the public, however, demurred
to the decree, which, together with Mr.Hopkinfon's
Columnal Orator, saved the lives of thele ufefu!
andaraufing companions.—
In a neighboring city, a similar attempt was
made about a year ago by its corporation. A
universal extirpation was ordered, without refpefl
to age or quality, by the ioth of June, 1791.—
The public interfered in this, as in the other cafe,
and the trees were saved ; X e* ce pt a ew > which
having been injudiciously placed, above a centurj
ago, had nearly grown into the inhabitants' hous
es ; and consequently fufFered the sentence of th<
law. — Trees in towns are conducive to health a
well as convenience ; they please the eye, obftrufl
the burning rays of the summer fun, and impart,
in some degree, the bleflings of rural life, to hiir
who is confined to the counter, the {hop-boaidj
and other sedentary employments in a large city.
\ A Ccpy of vcrfes, on this occasion, were as follow
THE LANDLORD'S SOLILOQUY.
A MAN that own'd some trees in town,
(And much averse tb cut them down)
Finding the Law was full and plaiu,
No trees Ihould in the streets remain,
One evening seated at his door,
Thus gravely talk'd the matter o'er :
" The fatal day, dear trees, draws nigh,
When you must, like your betters, die,
Must die ! — And every leaf shall fade
That many a season lent its (hade,
To drive from hence the summer's heat,
And make my porch a favorite feat.
" Thrice happy age, when all was new
And trees untouch'd, unenvied grew,
When yet regardless of the axe,
They own'd no law, and paid no tax j
The shepherd then at ease was laid,
Or walk'd beneath their cooling fliade ;
From (lender twigs a garland wove,
Or trae'd his god within the grove ;
Alas ! those limes are now forgot,
An iron age is all our lot :
Men are not now what once they were,
To hoard up gold is all their care :
The busy tribe old Plutus calls
To pebbled ftieetsand painted walls;
Trees now to grow, is held a crime,-'
And these must perilh in their prime !
" The trees that once our fathers rear'd,
And even the plundering Briton fpar'd,
When (hivering here full oft he flood,
Or kept his bed for want of wood---
These trees, whose gently bending boughs
Have witnelYd many a lover's vows,
When half afraid, and half in jest,
With Nature busy in his bread,
With many a iigh, beftow'd in vain,
Beneath these boughs he told his pain,
Or coaxing here his nymph by night
Forfock the parlour and the light,
In talking love hisgreateft bliss
To squeeze her hand or steal a kiss—
These trees that thus have lent their (hade
And many a happy couple made,
These old companions, thus endear'd,
Who never tattled what they heard,
Must these, indeed, be kill'd so foon---
Be murder'd by the tenth of June!
" But if my harmless trees must fill,
A fortune that awaits us all,
(All, all must yield to Nature's stroke-,
And now a man, and now an oak)
Are tbcfe that round the churches grow
In this decree included too ?
Mult these, like common trees, be bled ?
Is it a crime to (hade the dead ?
Review the laiv, I pray, at lead,
And have some mercy on the priest,
Who every Sunday sweats in black
To make us steer tfie Ikyward track :
The church has loft enough, Cod knows,
Plunder'd alike by friends and foes—
1 hate such mean attempts as these—
Come—let the parfonkeep his trees !
" Vet things, perhaps, are not so bad-—
Perhaps a rejfite may be had !
The vilest rogues that cut our throats,
Or knaves that counterfeit.our notes,
When, by the judge their sentence pafs'd,
The gallows proves their doom at last,
Villains and pests of every kind,
Tor weeks and months a rcffite find ;
And {hall such nuisances as they
Who make all honest men their frey— —
Shall they,for months avoid their doom,
And you, my trees, in al) your bloon?,
Who never injured Imall or great;
Be murder'd at so short a date !
(< Ye men of law, the occasion feire
And name a counsel for the trees —
Arrest of judgment, firs, I pray j
Excuse them till some future day :
The trees that such a nuisance are
Next New-Year we can better spare,
To warm our shins, or boil the pot—
The law, by then y will be forgot."
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Mr. Freneau,
I Happen to be one of those odd kind of people wh<
stile themselves philosophers—&, let me tellyoi
was just about throwing your paper (No. 36) int<
the fire, when I read the following paflage in it
" The pra&ice of killing the bees when you tak<
their wax and honey, is not so cruel as it may ap
pear on the firft view, to persons of great human
ity. The life of the bee is naturally but short
and with the best management, they must pass but
an uncomfortable winter, after they are robbed o;
their provision"—And why ? because, " there car
be no great purpose answered in prelerving tht
bees when their food is taken away; for in theft
ciicumftances they require more care and atten
tion than the farmer can bestow, to preserve their
from perishing."—Alas ! alas ! the tender mer
cies of the wicked are cruel—This is worse thar
opening the goose to get the golden eggs—For ii
the bee is to be destroyed because it's life is short,
and it can pass but an uncomfortable winter, &c.
I know of many bipeds, who ought to be sent tc
right the Indians every year on the fame principle,
Did this writer never he,ar of the Rev. Mr. Wild
man, as well as of Mr. Shoemaker and Mr. Lu
pins ?—He had better have gone on conveying
these ufeful infers from Achaia to Attica—or tc
Beauce or into the Gatinois—than thus to shorter
the short existence of so valuable a creature.
I could hardly help fmUing, too, to read youi
next column 5 where some poor prejudiced philo
fopher, like myfelf, has been endeavoring to ex
:ite our humanity in favor of the black bipeds :
set of animals, surely not more ufeful than th<
joor bee j and notwithstanding the foolifh reafon
ngs of many, who call themselves Christians, the
legroes can be no better than the bee—indeed thev
ire worse, for they are lazy, proud, and revenge
ful 5 the bee is only the last j and the negroes
tan never be called men in America, where al
who have a claim to this title are free and equal
Thus reason the politicians—The Chriftiau (l\
:a!!ed) must have been well convinced that tht
ilack animal has no foul $ for sUrely he would no
nake a beast of a brother.
But where am 1 wandering—l must stop, or ]
hall soon be in the lituation of many writer?, whe
ire so lengthy, they are never read—One thought,
lowever, I must drop before I conclude j whict
s, that the piece in question is not a real one ;
for, if it had been delivered by the President
}f the Society, we should certainly have ha<.
ii;. 11 writer ic» I L.IOW not, t>UL W;/1
')im in future to be more of
A PHILOSOPHER.
March 1, 1752.
The from the New-Tork "Journal c t
Feb. 25.]
An old Prophecy.
ABOUT the year 1792, the people of thelTni
:ed States (hall offer a curious phenomenon to th
eye of the world—A whole nation
ind that too a republic, in the morning of thei
;lory, smitten with the love of gold !
And the phiiofophers and patriots of Europe fha!
Lear thereof, and like the penitent nobles of Ni
leveh, shall cover themselves with sackcloth ant
ifhes, and fend meflengers to enquire into th
taufe thereof.
And these mefiengers shall return for answer
that the United States pofl'efs many wife and vir
tuous citizens who love their country, and indivi
dually despise gold ; among other*, one that pre
fides over their treasury department $ but that thi
>reat minister seems not to be so fkilful in th
science of human nature as his genius and phi
lanthropy deserve—hence all his schemes an
plans have tended and tended only to meliorat
the pockets, and not the heads and hearts of th
jeople—that he has talked to them so much 0
mpofts, and of funds, and of banks, and of ma
lufa&ures, th*t they are confiaered as the cardi
Tal virtues of the union.—Hence liberty, inde
phiiofophy, and genius have bee
Truck out from the American vocabulary, an
:he hieroglyphic of money inserted in their stead
is a symbol of every thing worthy the eftimatioi
jf man.
That the gangrene thus began at the heart 0
their constitution, though spreading too fact to
wards the extremities by the adliviry of its own 1/i
us, is yet about to be inoculated into the diftan
'imbsj and this, as is pretended, will save the bo
Jy from mortification and from death !
That poverty, though dignified by the pure;
virtue, is every where considered as the sum of a
"vil : hence all the ordinary walks of industry be
to be loathed, and are about to be abandone
or the golden dreamt of J"peculation ; and. notwith
landing the wonted lupciiority of agriculture ii
the opinion of the wife and good, the phrase e< lo*
voice of the unmcmied farmer," is here considered a
the emphatic description of misery and contemp
—That elevation, therefore, of foul, which, du
ring their unequal conflict with Britain, raifc.
them to a sublimity of chara&er, which excitei
che envy and admiration of the world, has yieldec
co the contagion of avarice, and they are nov
funk into all the meanness of stock jobbing.
They are also become liars, and hypocrites, anc
calumniators of the little virtue and merit whicl
is left among them, for they fay, that the Secreta
ry of the Treasury and those who adopted his plan
in Congress, intended thereby (t amonied arifioct a
cy, and a government of influence j" whereas thci
crime was, a too good opinion of the fetife am
virtue of their countrymen, whose exceflive ava
rice, they did riot fore fee, was like the grave,
which will never cry enough—Yet these diabolical
ravens beset their state governors, and demand
that they should follow the examples of the go
vernment, which, in the fame breath, they have
traduced.
The people of this country, notwithstanding,
affedt to be still enamoured of all the virtues of re
publicanism, wonder that any one can fufpedt them
of a departure from their pristine puiity, and treat
with all the solemn indignation of speculative
treason, the labours of the patriot of Braintree,
though their conduct establishes his positions, and
accelerates his predi&ions.
That they had fought in the usual haunts of
virtue and of merit for thofc heroes and Jegifla
tors, who had conducted them through the tem
pests of anarchy, treason, and war, and had given
to their country a name among the nations j but
were told that here they were not to be found $
that the wealthy part thereof enjoyed the smiles
of the community, and might be leen in the paths
of excisemen, brokers, and (lock jobbers ; that the
reft, frowned out of focietv on account of their po
verty, and driven for lack of bread into the wil
derness, had fallen in war by the hand of the la
vages, or had a Hoc i a ted their humble dwelling
with those of the tenants of '.he sorest, as neigh
bours who, at least, would no: insult their indi
gence.
That every discoverable symptom gave mourn
ful intimation of a nation on the verge of infamy
and ruin, by reason of prosperity, without an ade
quate share of wisdom and virtue !
HATTERAS SHOALS.
AT the time of Sir Walter Raleigh's ap
proaching the American shores, the flioa!s
in the vicinity of Hatieras were found to be ex
tremely dangerous, and no vefTe 13, in that latitude,
ventured within seven leagues of the land. From
a survey of the ancient drafts of this part of the
coast, there can be nodoubt but the fears of for
mer navigators were not without foundation, as
these shoals are laid down very large in extent,
and in many places covered not with more than
five or fix feet water, at a great distance from the
land.
The constant experience of the coasting trade
Df the United states, demonstrates, either that
;he ancient drafts were purposely falfified in order
:o deter seamen from venturing too near a coast
vith which they had as yet a very (lender ac
quaintance ; or (which is the mod thai
jy the strong currents hereabouts, which aie only
ounter currents of the Gulph-Strcam, the sands,
which were originally heaped up in this part ol
;he ocean by some ancient convulsion of nature;
tiave been gradually wearing away, and diminifh
,ng to what we find them to be at this time.
At present the out-fhoals, which lie about four
reen miles south-east of the Cape, are but ol
five or fix acres extent, and where they are real!)
jangerous to veflels of moderate draught, not
more than half that number of acres. On tlu
fhoaleft part of these is, at low water, about ter
fe-et, and here at times the ocean breaks in a tre
mendous manner, fpou'ing, as it were, to the
•lnuds, from tba violent of the £ulph.
A'hich touches the ealtern edge of these banks,
: rom whence the declivity is sudden, that is u
fay, from ten fathoms to no foundings. On tht
!pot above mentioned, which is firm sand, it ha<
jeen the hard lot of many a good vefTel to strike.
in a gale of wind, and goto pieces. —In moderatt
weather, however, these shoals may be palled over,
f necessary, at full tide,.without much danger, bj
I'elTels not drawing more than eight, nine, or ten
fee: water.
From this bank, which was formerly of vafl
extent, and called the Full-Moon-Shoal, a ridge
uns the whole distance to the Cape, about s
N. W. course : this ridge, which is about hall
i mile wide, has on it at low tide generally io, 11
and 12 feet Water, with gaps at unequal interval;
affording good channels of about 15 or 16 feet.
The moit noted of these channels, and most ulec
by coasting veflels, is about one mile and an hall
from the land, and may easily be known by <
range of breakers which are always leen, on the
weft fide, and a breaker-head or two on the eaft
;rn fide, which however are not so constant, on!)
appearing when the sea is considerably agitated,
This channel is at least two and an half mile:
wide, and might at full sea be fafely palled bj
large ships. These, however, rarely attempt it.
The common tides swell about fix feet, and al
ways come from the south-east.---A little nortl
of the Cape is good anchorage in fuur or five fa
thorns, and, with the wind to the westward, 2
boat may land in fafcty, and even bring oft'eafk:
of frefh water, plenty of which is to be foun<
every where on the beach, by digging a foot c;
two, and putting a barrel into the land.
March 6.
On a rich old Miser's narrow escape from foun
dering at sea, in an old crazy veflel, which h<
had, through economic motives, preferred to 2
fine new one, to embark with his whole property.
tc Mala foluta nai'is exit alite y
<< ffrens olentem Mecv'iumJ"
! what a pity, the niggardly loon
Did r,ae y with his gold, to the bottom gang docn !
But the reason I'll tell you :—Auld Neptune ken a
iv eel,
From his Jean wither'd carcase, one plentiful meal
No fifli could e'er pick :—and his hrart was so
haerdy
Aiv the lharks, nvV one voice, to their monarch
declar'd,
Twas 'nae food for them, —they too sorely were
frighted,
Left their teeth it ihould break, if they ventur'o
to bite it. J. C.
A few Copies of the REPORT oj
the Secretary of the Treasury, of the
6th inji. on the PUBLIC DEBT,
may be had at this Office.
ROBERT SMOCK,
Woollen Draper Iff Mercer,
Has jujt received by the jhip Pigou, from London,
and for sale at his Store, on the north cast corner
us Market and Third Jlreets, Philadelphia,
AN ELEGANT ASSORTMENT OF
SUPERFINE and super broadcloths, in almost
every colour.
Ladies fuperfine habit cloths,in the most fafhion
able cola-irs.
Superfine caflimers, do.
Do. and super elastic striped cloths.
Milled drabs and hunters cloths.
A variety of fancy waiftcoating, in silk, silk and
cotton, silk molefkiii, caffimers printed and
tamboured, and fuperfine striped Spani/h toili
ne'ts.
Mens black, fattins, florentines, and silk prunellas
of superior qualites
Silk, silk and cotton, cotton and worsted hose,
a (Tor ted.
Sattins andmantuas, a beautiful variety.
Superfine rattinets, with a large collection of best
trimmings for cloths, &c. of every quality.
Moreens, joans spinning, durants and caliman
coes.
Hairbines and camblets, See.
9-8 wide fuperfine Marseilles quilting with bos*
ders.
Marseilles bedquilts and cstton counterpanes, 9-4
to 12-4.
Flanders bedbunts and bedtickings.
A beautiful variety of chintzes and cottons.
An elegant aflortment of yard wide furniture
chintzes, in beautiful colours and patterns, (
with a large variety of furniture cottons.
Velveteens, velvets, corduroys, thicksets, fancy
cords, stockinets, royal ribs, fattinets, hair
plushes, &c. &c.
Striped and grey, twilled and plain Bath coatings.
Rose blankets afiorted.
ROBERT SMOCK has also for Sale, a great
Variety of GOODS of the best quality in tlleir
Teveral kinds. He presumes it is unneceflary to
be more particular in the enumeration, and that
tis fufficient to fay the aflortment is very gene
al and extensive, confining of almost every arti
:le in his line of business.—Being Uefirous of giv
ing entire fatisfa&ion to those who may be pleased
to favour him with their custom, as well
ss cf meriting a continuance of those cus
tomers, whose favours he has hitherto experien
ced, he flatters himfelf tV' cheapness of his Goods
will be the best means t / clfeding his wifties.
LOTS AND LANDS FOR SALE.
THE Subscriber wijhes to fell sundry Lots and
Iloufes in the town of Alexandria, in good
situations for business } fotne of them are unimpro
ved. Also federal traFls of Land in the counties
of Fairfax and Loudoun ; the Fairfax lands a*e
from one and a half to four miles from Alexandria ;
\he Loudoun lands 45 to 50 miles. A credit will
br given for a considerable part of the value if re
quired by the pur chafer ; and as no p erf on ivill buy
without viewing the property, a dcfcription is un
necessary. I will aljo fell Jeveral trafls of land
m the wejiern waters, in the inhabited par tof the
:ounrry y lonraiTring f TOm to 2000 acres each.
Those lands will be fold low, either on long credit,
or for money, as may befi suit the purchaser. I
have also a traElof 500 acres of low land in Acco
mack county, on the Eaflern iShore of Virginia ;
ibout <;o acres of which are cleared, on the waters
f MaJJ'ango River, navigable for boats through thi
land. The land is of an excellent quality, and hea
vily timbered, with White-Oak and Pine, and He
within 4 miles of d landing that a vcjjel of 9 to ic
feet water can load at. Mr. Walter Bayne f wh<
'ives near the land, will shew it to any who maj
ncline to purchase.
JOSIAH WATSON.
Alexandria y Feb. 20 1792.
6fuw.
DiJlriEl of Pcnnfylvania, to wit :
BE it remembered, That on the fourteentl
day of February, in the fifteenth yea
[>f the independence of the United State
t)f America, H. H. BrAckenridge, o
the said diftrift, hath deposited in this of
"ice, the title of a Book, the right whereo
the claims as author, in the words follow
ng, to wit: Modern Chivalry, contair
n g the adventures of Captain John FArrAgo
ind TeAgue O'RegAN, his servant
/olume firft—By ft. H. RrAckneridge
2uicquid agunt homines, nofiri y farrago Libelh.-
juvenal. In conformity to the ast c
he Gongrefs of the United States, entitlec
An a£t for the encouragement of learn
ng, by securing the copies of maps, charts
md books, to the authors and proprietoi
jf such copies, during the times therei
lientioned.
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of tl
Dijlrid of Pennfylvama.
Jfufl publifhcd, and to be fold by the Printer,
J. U L L O C H,
No, 1. N. Third-flreet,
and at most of the Book-fores in this city,
MODERN CHIVALRY:
CON TAIN 1N G THE
ADVENTURES
Captain J O H N F ARRAGO,
TEAGU E G A N
HIS SERVANT.
VOLUME I.
By H. H. BRACKENRIDGE.
Quicquid agunt homines, nqjlri, farrago libelli.
Juvenal.
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND S W A I N E,
If their office, no. 239, high-strei
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA.