Vol. I.
Read in the House ofßeprefentativesj Feb. 7,1792.
Trcafury Department, Feb, 6th 1792.
Sir,
I HAVE the honor to fend herewith a Report
on the fobjett of the Public Deb*, pursuant to thf
order of the House of Representatives of the jit oi
November, 179 1, and to fubfequcnt reference!
therein mentioned j and to be, with perfect refpe£t
Sir, your mod obedient,
And most humble servant,
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
Secretary of tloe Trcafury %
To tle honorable the Spiaker
of the House of Representatives«
Treasury Department, Jan. 23d, 1792.
FURSUAN" 7 ! to the Ordtr of the House of Repre
fentat'wes of the firjf of November, J 791, d'ireß
ing the Secretary of tie Treasury, tc to report t<
the House the amount of the Subscriptions t*
the Loans proposed by the Ast making Pro*vifioi
for the Public Debt, as well in the debts of thi
refpeftive States as in the Dome[lic Debt of thi
United States, and ef the Parts 'which remain un
fubferibed, together •with fucb Measures as are
in his Opinion y expedient to betaken on the Sub
je£i : the said Secretary refpe&fully fubniits thi
folloiving
REPORT.
I. f gj *HE whole amount of the domestic debt ol
JL the United States, principal and incereft<
which has been fubferibed to the Joan pfopofed
concerning that debt, by the ad intituled, 4< An
adfc making provision for the debt of the United
States," according to the statement herewith trans
mitted, marked A. and fubjeft to the observa
tions accompanying that statement, is
Dollars 31,797*481. 22
which pursuant to the terms of that
aCt has been converted into stock,
tearing an immediatejntereft of 6
per cent, per annum - - 14,177,450. 43
Stock bearing the' like interest
from the id of Jan. 1801 - 7,088,727. 79
Stoclc"bearing an immediate inter
, ell of per cent, per/annum - *0,531,303
Making together - dols. 31,797,481. 22
Of which there stands to the credit
of the Trufteesof the linking
fund, in consequence of purcha
ses of the public debt, made un
der their direction, the sum of
dols. 1,131,364.
The unfubferibed residue of the
said debt, according to the state
ments herewith tranfmstted,
marked B. and C. and fubjett
to the observations accompany
ing the statement C. appears to
amount to - dols. 10,616,604. 6c
Consisting of registered debt, prin
cipal and interest - 6,795,815. it
Unfubferibed stock on the books
of the commiilioners of loans
for New-Jerfev, Pennsylvania
and Maryland, principal and
interest - - 15,674. 62
Credits on the books of the Trea
sury, for which no certificates
have iflued, principal and in
terest - - 107,648. 63
Outstanding or floating eviden
ces of debt, estimated per
statement C. at - 3,697,466. 14
Making together - dols. 10,616,604. 65
Concerning which some farther arrangement is
neceflary.
The greatest part of the registered debt, hither
to unfubferibed, is owned by the citizens of fo
reign countries, most, if not all of whom appe2i
now disposed to embrace the terms held out by the
a6l above mentioned ; extensive orders having
been received from thole creditors, to fubferibe tc
the loan, after the time for receiving fubferiptions
had elapsed.
A confidera'ole part of the outstanding or float
ing debt, consists of loan-office certificates iflued
between the firft of September, 1777, anc *
of March, 1778, bearing interest on the nominal
sum. Many of the holders of this foecies of debl
have come in upon the terms of the a&, but other*
have hitherto declined it; alledging, that the spe
cial nature of their contract gives a peculiarity tc
their cafe, and renders the commutation proposed
not so fair an equivalent to them, as in other in
stances. They also complain, that the adl hai
had, towards them, a compulsory afpeft, by refu
fing the temporary payment of interest, unless they
should exchange their old for new certificates, ef
ientially varying the nature of their contra&.
A resolution of Congress of the tenth of Sep
tember, 1777, stipulates in favor of this class ol
creditors, interest upon the nominal y instead of the
real principal of their debt, until that principal bt
discharged. This certainly renders their contrail
ot a nature more beneficial than that of other cre
ditors ; but they are at the fame time liable to be
diverted of the extra-benefit it gives them, by a
payment of their specie-dues j and it may be ob
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhtd Monday's ariri Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
MONDAY, February 13, 1792.
served, that they have a&ually enjoyed, and b}
.ccepting the terms offered to them, were enablec
o realise, advantages superior to other creditors.
They have been paid interest by bills on France
from the tenth September, 1777, to the firft of
March, 1782, while other creditors received theii
inter eft in depreciated bills of the old eminions 5
and the terms of the loan proposed put it in theii
power to realise the benefit of interest on the nomi
nal amount of their refpe&ive debts, at rate}
from 6. 20-Xoodths. nearly to 10. 47-ioodths,
per cent, on their real or specie capital down t<
the last of December, 179 c.
It docs not therefoie appear to have been an un
reafonabie expe&ation, that they, as readily a
any other description of public cieditors, woul<
have acquiesced in a measure, calculated for tin
accommodation of the government, under cir
cumftances, in refpeft to which, it has been oe
monftrated by fubjequent events that the acCom
modation desired was conliftent with the best in
tereft of the public creditors. A large proportiof
of the parties interested have indeed viewed th<
matter in this light, and have embraced the propo
sition. It is probable, chat the progreft of
will fatisfy the remainder, that it is equally theii
interest to concur 5 if a farther opportunity be a;
forded. But it is, nevertheless, for themfelvei
only to judge, how far the equivalent proposed is.
in their Cafe, a reafonabte and fair one ; how fai
any circumstances in their claim may suggest rea
sons for moderation on their part} or how fa:
any other motives, puiilic or private, ought to in
uce an acceptance. And the principles of gooc
faith rtquire, that their ele&ion fiiould be free.
On tl»is ground, the complaint which regard)
the withholding of a temporary payment of inter
est, except on the condition of a surrender of tht
old certificates for new ones importing a
substantially different, appears to the Secretary
not destitute of foundation. He presumes, thai
the operation of that provision, in the particula:
cafe was not adverred to ; or, that an exceptior
would have been introduced as most consonant wltl
the general spirit and design of rhe act. Accor
dinglv the farther measures which will be submit
ted, will contemplate a method of obviating thi
objection in question.
From the confederation, that an extension 0
the time for receiving fubferiptions the_term
<si "provflion lor the debt or" tn
United States, is desired by a large proportion o
the non-fubferibing creditors ; and from the far
ther consideration, that fufficient experience ha
not yet been had of the produ&ivenefs of a consi
derable branch of the revenues which have beef
established, to afford the light necelfary to a fina
arrangement—-it is, in the judgment of the Secre
tary, advifeable, to renew the proposition for ;
loan in the domestic debt, on the fame terms witl
the one which has been closed, and to allow timi
for receiving fubferiptions to it until the last da;
of September next, inclusively ; making provifior
for the temporary payment of interest: to such wht
may not think fit to fubferibe, for the year 1792
of the like nature with that which was made ir
the fame cafe for the year 1791 —except as to th<
holders of Joan-ofTice certificates, ifiued betweer
the firft of September, 1777, and the firft o
March, 1778 } in ic('pec\ co whom it is fubmittet
as proper to difpenfc with the obligation of ex
changing their old certificates for new, as the con
dition of their receiving interest in capacity of non
fubfcr»Lerss and to allow them, without such ex
change, to recrive the fame interest, both for th<
years 1791 and 1792, as if they fubferibed tc
the firft loan. It will not be materially dithcult
so to regulate the operation at the treasury as t<
avoid in the particular cafe, that danger of imposi
tion by counterfeits, which was the motive to tin
general provision foi an exchange of certificates.
11. The amount of the fubferiptions in tht
debts of the refpe&ive states, within the limit:
I of the sum assumed in each, appears by the
ment marked D. to be dollars 17,072,334.
39-loodths, lubje& to the observations accompa
nying that statement. Conlequently the differ
ence between the aggregate of the sums fubfcribec
and the aggregate ot- the sums assumed, is dollari
4,427,665. 61-ioodths.
This difference is to be attributed to fevera
causes, the principal of which are the following,
First. That the sums assumed in refpedt to cer
tain states exceeded the actual amount of theii
existing debts. Second, That in various instan
ces, a pait of the existing debt was in a forir
which excluded it from being received, without
contravening particular provisions of the law 5 a:
in the cafeot certificates issued after the firft daj
of January, 1790, in lieu of certificates which
had been issued prior to that period, which waj
reported upon by the Secretary on the twenty
fifth day of February last. Third, Ignorance of,
or inattention to the limitation of time for receiv
ing fubferiptions. It appears, that a number ol
loft the opportunity of fubferibing from
the one or the other of these causes.
A ftrone desire that a farther opportunity may
be afforded for fubferiptions in the debts of the
states, has been manifefteu by the individuals in
cerefted. And the states of Rhode-Island and
New-Hampshire, have by the public a&s referred
to the Secretary, indicated a similar desire. The
affording of such farther opportunity, may either
be reftri&ed within the limit, as to amount,
which is contemplated by the ast itfelf, or may
receive an extension which will embrace the resi
duary debts of the states.
Th e firft may be considered as nothing mon
rl an giving luil efftft to a measure already £
dcpted.
The last appears to ha*e in its favour all th<
Gliding inducements to what has been already
Itme. The em'barrafTments which might aiil*
ram conflicting systems of finance are not entire
y obviated. The efficacious command of th
i-lional rt-fources for national exigencies, is no
• nequivo cally, secured. The equalizing of th
> ndition of the citizens of every state, and exo
i>rrating those of the states mpft indebted, fron
partial burthens which would press upon them ir
Xnfequence of exertions in a common cause, i
completely fulfilled, until the entire debt o
:X?ry state, contracted in relation to the war, i
to one general *nd comprehensive plan
Tf e inconvenience to the United States, of dif
thening the states, which are still encumber
:d with considerable debts, would bear no pro
ior tion to the inconvenience which they would
r e ,if left to Struggle with those debts, unaided
i »lors general contentment, therefore, in thi
lie mind, may be expected to attend such ar
:x«> noration, than the reverse $ in proportion a
I of adtual inconvenience would b<
Liter, though only applicable to parts, in the on<
hXrirt the other cafe*
Jr'ith regard to Rates, parts only of the debti
; '""y.hich have been aflumed, and in proportion;
hertof those, which have prevailed, in favor o;
>tS'f r dates, and Short also of what would have
efS' te d from a due apportionment of the entire
urf aflumed j the claim to a further afTumptior
s /Tended e»n confiderationa of equal justice, a;
el itive to the measure itfelf, considered in a fe
paiyte and independent light.
Hot there is a further reason of material weigh
for Tin immediate general afTumption. Moniec
!>£ ,'j as well foreigners as citizens, through th<
• Xp| ttation of an eventual afTumption, or that ir
fonlefhape or other a substantial provision will b<
mane for the unafTumed residue of the state debts
will be induced to speculate in the purchase o
neV/u In proportion as the event is unsettled
>r Incertain, the price of the article will be low
;nci/the present proprietors will be under aifad
Menage in the iale. The loss to them in favo
if {jie purchasers is to be regarded as an evil
/s i.t is ,'conne£ied vvith a transfer t<
Foreigners, at an under value, it will be a na
lional evil. Bv whatever authority an ultimati
fcrovifion may be made, there will be an abfoluti
ofa to the community equal to the total amoun
>f fach under-value.
It may appear an objection to the measure
:hat it will require an establishment of additions
"unds by the government of the United States.—
3ut this does not seem to be a necefiary confe
juence. The probability is, that without a fup
jlementarv afTumption, an equal, or very nearlj
;qual augmentation of funds will be requisite t<
provide for greater balances in favor of certair
tates, which would be proportionably dfnrinifhet
jy such afTumption. The destination, not tin
quantum of the fund, will therefore be the chie
iiftindtion between the two cases.
It may also appear an objection to a total ?)".
Tumption, that the magnitude of the objedl i s
lot ascertained with precision. It is not certainly
tnowo, what sum is due in each state ; nor has it
jecn poflible to acquire the information, owing
:o different causes. But though precise 'data arc
ieficient, there are materials which wil) serve as
;uides. From the returns received at Vhe treafu
•y, aSTifted by information in other ways, it ma\
>e Stated without danger of materia/, error—That
he remaining debts of the states over and above the
unas already fubferibed will not cxceed the a
nounts fpecifted in the Statement D. accompanying
his report—And that, including the sums alrea
ly fubferibed, the total amount to be ultimately
)rovided for, in the event of a general aflump
ion, will not exceed dols. 25,403,362. 71 which
vould constitute an addition ot dols. 3)903,362. 71
othe sum of 21,500,000 dollars already afTumed.
Should a total afTumption be deemed eligible,
t may still be advifeable to afiign a determinate
Turn for each state, that the utmost limit of the
)peration may be pre-eftah]ifhed ; and it is ne
:efTa:y in order to the certainty of a due provi
sion in proper time, that interest Should not begin
:o be payable, on the additional sums afTumed,
:ill after the year 175 Z.
it will occur, that provision has been made,
for paying to each state, in trust for its non-sub
scribing creditors, an interest upon the difference
between the sum aiTumed for such state, and that
actually fubferibed, equal to what would have
been payable, if it had been fubferibed.
In the event of a farther afTumption, either
within the limits already established, or commen-
Turate with the remaining debts of the states ; it
s conceived, that it will not be incompatible with
he provision just mentioned, to retain, at the
;nd of each quarter, during the progress of the
farther subsCription, out of the money directed
:o be paid to each state, the sum corresponding
with the interest upon f© much of its debts as shall
lave been fubferibed to that period, paying the
averplus, if any, to the state. An absolute sus
pension of that payment does not appear confift
cnt with the nature of the Stipulation, included in
that provision $ for though the money to be paid
to a state be expressly a trust for the non-fubicri
bing creditors 5 yet as it cannot be certain be
forehand, that they will eledt to change their con
dition, the pofiibility of it will not juftify a fuf a
Numb. 31.
penfioji of payment to the state, which might ope
rate as a lulpenfion of payment to the creditors
ihemfdves.
A farther ohje£ion to foch a suspension refult3
from the idea, thac the provision in question ao
pears to have a secondary object j nameJj, a
pledge for fepuring a provision for whatever ba
lance may be found due to a state on the general
settlement of accounts. The payment dire&ed
to be made to a state, is il to continue until there
(ha)! be a settlement of accounts between the
United States and the individual states $ and in
C*fe a balance ihould then appear in favor of a
state, until provision fti2ll be made for the said
balance."
Th's secondary operation as a pledge or security
[confidently with the intent of the funding s£i)
can only be superseded in favor of the primary
object, a pro'vifiQr.for the creditors j and as far as
may be necessary co admit them to an efte&ual
participation of it. But as wharcver money may
be paid to a state, is so be paid over to its credit
3rs, proportional deductions may, with propriety,
be made from the debts of those creditois who
may hereafter fubferibe j so as that the United
States may not have to pay twice for the time
aurpofe.
If it shall be judged expedient, either to open
igain, or extend the afiumption, it will be ne
:eUarv to vary the description of the debts, which
nay be fubferibed, so as to comprehend all those,
phich have relation to services or supplies during
he war, under such reltri&ions as are requisite to
;uard against abuse.
In the original proposition for an afiumption of
:he state debts, and in the suggestions now made
)n the fame fubjedt, the Secretary has contem
dl a ted, and still contemplates, as a material pare
)f the plan, an effectual provision, for the sale
>f the vacant lands of the United States. He
las considered this resource, as an important
nean of linking a part of the debt, and facilita
:ing ultimate arrangements concerning the reli"
3ue. If fuuplcmentary funds (hall be rendered
lecefiary, by an additional afiumption, the pro
vision will moll conveniently be i/jade, at the
lext feflion of Congress, when the produ&ivenefs
»f theexilting revenues, and the extent of the sum
:o be provided for, will be better ascertained.
t There y,, a .par: of the <deH: sf-th-* V fcffi
States, Wiitch is a caijfe of some perplexity to
he tjreafury. It is nor comprehended within rh=r
rxifting provifun fj/ the foreign debt which is
•onfined to loans m/ide abroad} and it is quef
ionable, whether j c is to be regarded as a por
ion of the domcf uc debt. It is not only due to
oreigners, but she interest upon it is payable,
oy express ft ipulation, in a foreign country,
whence it berjmes a matter of doubt, whether it
be at all co ntemplated by the a£* making provi
sion for t>.e debt of the United States. The part
alluded ' (0 is that, which is due to certain foreign
who served the United States during the
late » var . l n consequence of a resolution of Con
gr-'"s, directing their interest to be paid to them
i'n France, the certificates which were ilTued to
them fpecify, that " in pursuance of and com
pliance with a certain resolution of Congress of
the third day of February, 1784, the said inteieft
is to be paid, annually, at the house of Monf. le
Grand, banker in Paris." Interest has according
ly been paid to them at Paris, down to the 31ft
of December, 1788, by virtue of a special resolu
tion of Congress of the 20th of August in that
year, since which period, no payment has been
made.
It has been heretofore suggested as the opinion
of the Secretary, that it would be expedient to
cause the whole of this description of debt to be
paid oft j among other reasons, because it bears
an interest at fix per centum per annum, payable
abroad,"and can be difchargcd with a saving. The
other reafon9 alluded to are of a nature both
weighty and delicate, and too obvious, it is presu
med, to need a fpecification. Some recent cir
cumstances have served to strengthen the induce
ments to the measure. But if it /hould, finally,
be deemed unadvifeable, it is necefiary at least,
that provision ftiould be made for the interest,
which is now suspended, under the doubt that has
been stated, and from the want of authority to
remit it pursuant to the contrast.
The amount of this debt, with the arrears of
interest to the end of the year 1791, is dollars
220,646. 81.
IV. The a& making provision for the debt of
the United States has appropriated the proceeds
of the western lands as a fund for the difchargeof
the public debt. And the ad making provision
for the reduction of the public debt, has appropri
ated all the surplus of the duties on imports and
tonnage, to the end of the year 1790, to the pur
pose of purchasing the debt at the market price,
and has authorised the President to borrow the
further sum of two millions of dollars for the fame
object.
These measures serve to indicate the intention
of the legislature, as early and as fact as poflible,
to provide for the extinguishment of the existing
debt.
In pursuance of that intention, it appears ad
vifeable, that a systematic pl2n should be begun
for the creation and establishment of a finking
fund.
An obvious basis of this eftablifliment, which
may be immediately contemp ated, is the amount
of the interest on so much of he debt as has been
(See Ufl f age.)PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS,
TIOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, Feb. 6.
The Speaker laid before the House a let
ter from the Secretary at War, accompa
nying; certain communications with the ex
ecutive of Virginia, relative to the exiling
temporary defenfive protection of the ex
posed frontiers of that state, pursuant to
Jhe orders of the Preiident of the United
States—which was read-, and ordered to lie
on the table.
A message was received from the Presi
dent of the United States, with abatement
of certain articles of expense that had oc
curred in the department of foreign affairs,
for which no provillon had been made by
law; with a letter from the Secretary ofj
State explanatory thereof. [The expense
referred to, was incurred for the relief of
a number of American Tailors, impreft'ed in
England to serve on board th»Briti(h navy]
The meffi'.ge and letter being read, were
referred to a feleft committee.
A bill for an apportionment of Repre
frntatives among the several States, accor
ding to the firft enumeration, and making,
provision for another enumeration, and an
apportionment of Representatives thereon,
to compose the House of Representatives
after rhe third day of March, 1797, was
read the second time, and ordered to be
committed to a committee of the whole
House on Monday next.
Mr. White, from the committee, pre
f-nted a bill for the settlement of the claims
under particular circumstances barred by
the limitations heretofore established
which was received and read a firft and se
cond time and referred to a committee of
the whole House on next Wednesday.
Mr. Benfon, from the committee, to
whom was referred the report of the Se
cretary of the Treasury on the petition of
Comfort Sands, and others, made a report,
which was read and ordered to lie on the
table.
Mr. W. Smith laid on the table a resolu
tion, that the Secretary of State be directed
to lay before the House copies of such laws
a; have been adopted and published by the
Governor and Judges of the territory north
west; of the Ohio.
Mr. Gerry gave nolice. that if the Poft
oTice bill is, by the approbation of the Pre
sident of the United States, passed into a
Jaw in its prpfe-ir f;jnn, he will move for
—kc.mgjng i n a bill to anend it, by redu :ing
the po'tage of newfpapcrs.
The House then, in committee of the
whole, resumed the coivfideration of the
Fishery bill, which, having gone through
and several amendments made, the fame
were agreed to by the House ; and the bill
and amendments ordered to be read the
third time to-morrow.
Thursday, Feb. 9.
The Honfe proceeded to the third read
ing of the bill for the encouragement of the
Bank and other Cod-fifheries, and for .the
regulation and government of the fifherme.n
employed therein—The bill was then pall
ed, yeas 38, nays 21.
V eas —Messieurs Ames, Barnwell, Ben
fon, Boudinot, B. Bourne, S. Bourne,
Clarke, Dayton, Fitzfimons, Gerry, Gil
man, Goodhue, Gordon, Gregg, Griffin,
Hartley, Hillhoufe, Huger, Kittera, Lau
rance. Learned, Lee, Livermore, Madison,
Muhlenberg, Nifces, Schoonmaker, J.Smith,
I. Smith, W. Smith, Sterrett, Sturges, Syl
vester, Thatcher, Tredwell, Vining, Wadf
worth, \\ ayne—3B Nays-—Messieurs
A She/ Baldwin, Browne, Giles, Grove,
Heifter, Key, Macon, Mercer, Moore,
Murray, Page, Parker,Seney, Steele, Suinp
ler, Tucker, Venable, White, Williamfon,
Willis—2l.
The House then refolveditfelfintoa com
mittee of the whole—(Mr. W. Smith in the
chair) —on a bill (received from the Senate)
relative to the election of a President and
\ ice-President of the United States, and'
declaring the officer who shall act as Presi
dent in cafe of vacancies in the offices both
of President and Vice-Prefident.
The ninth feftion was struck out, in
which the President of the Senate pro tem
pore wa.i deiignated to ast as President, in
cale of vacancies in both of the above men
tioned offices.
A motion was then made to add a new
feftion to the bill, appointing the Senior Af
foc.ate Judge as the person to fill the vacan
cy : —a motion was made to amend this pro
portion, by substituting the Secretary of
State, instead of the Senior Aflociate Judge:
a short debate ensued, after which, the
committee rose without taking the cjuef
tion, reported progress, and obtained leave
to fit again.
Mr. Laurance presented a petition from
the tanners and curriers of the city of New
\ ork, praying relief from the hardships they
labour under, in consequence of the expor
tation of tanner's bark.—Referred to the
fame committee, to whom a similar peti
tion was referrt d yesterday.
Mr. S. Bour-ie, from the committee of
enrollment, presented to the Speaker the
poft-office bill duly enrolled; who ac
cordingly signed it.
Friday, Feb. 10
Sundry petitions were read and referrc
to the heads of departments.
Mr. Muhlenberg presented a petition
from the tanners of Philadelphia, similar to
the petitions from the tanners of New-Je ■
fey and New-York; a motion torefertli
petition to the committee on the two .ill
petitions, occasioned some debate— the r. o
tion was agreed to.
On Motion of Mr. Fitzfimons, the pi
tion of C. and C. Marshal was referred to
the committee of the whole House 011 the
fubjeft of Manufactures.
Mr. Wayne moved the following re f
lution in substance • That the fitting mem
ber for the lower district of Georgia, . .id
James Jackson, the petitioner against the
validity of the election of said membci —
should be furnifhed respectively on appl;c 1-
tion, with copies of such depositions and ...•-
cuments relative to said election, as vf
be received by the Speaker; this refolut. oil
was agreed to.
The refoiution, that the Secretary of
State lay before the House copiesofthe a-V
and resolves, pafl'ed by the Governor us.d
Judiciary of the Western territory—vi,
agreed to. '
In committee of the whole on the .
relative to the election of a President
Vice-President of the United States, <?:c !
Mr. Benfon's motion to insert the S. ■
Aflociate Judge, as the officer to fill tl. ■u
cancy in the office of Preiident and \ u
President, v, is negatived.
Mr. Giles's motion to insert the Sec:
ry of State, was then difcufled, and, » r
some debate, adopted—2B to 21. J
The committee rose and reported t>: 1 1
with the amendments, to the House. ■ L.:h
took the fame into confederation : The f
amendment was to strike out the nth / .
tion, which provided that the PrefdenU 0 "
the Senate pro tempore, should ast as it-e
----fident in cafe of vacancy—this amendnfL'nt
was agreed to—ayes 32 —noes 24. 1
The substitute which provides that#;',u
vacancy shall be filled by the SecrevarJ
State for the time being, was also adopt# i.
33 members rising in the affirmative. (
Several amendments in addition wlrre
proposed; some of which were difa<: |. d
to—One moved by Mr. Hillhoufe, to deft -
mine the number of electors, was difcii'ied
till an adjournment was called for, ajiJ ::o
decision took place. (
A message from the Senate iriforinedrthe
House that they have agreed to tl-ir
amendments to the fiXhery bill. 1
Adjourned till Monday.
On the disposal of the lands of the Western
Territory.
By H. H. BrAcken.udge, of Pittfb :.
IT is a great chcck to the public 1 aid in
exertions for the peaceable pofTellion of
this territory, that so little seems to have arisen
from the sales made ; and tho' this pro >erty
was held out at the commencement of the war
with Great-Britain, as a fund from which a
great part or the whole of the debt might be
finally discharged ; yet it has hitherto produced
but little ; nor does there seem to be a profpeft
of much being produced at any future time. It
niay be worth while to consider whether this
mav be unavoidable ;or owing to bad manage
ment. I consider it as a great error th:t on
sales, immediate payment was not made the con
dition and obtained : the quid fro quo inftantlv
paid down ; so that it might be precilely known
what was alienated : and the remainder free
for market: but to the Mufkingum, and Scioto,
and Simme's company, a great extent was Told ;
but a partial payment made, very fmali indeed,
and the public lies out of what was to be paid,
and mufi resume the grant or lie out flill. This
ought to be brought to a point and fettled fpee
diiv that the idea of such grants made, may not
lie in the way of absolute sale toothers: Tiore
over these companies having failed in their con
tracts, ana the public in the mean time having
fuffered loss, these extensive purchasers, but par
tial payers, having fold more than they have
paid tor, at double price to those who have pur
chased under them, this loss ought to be made
up by these companies. In the mean time they
ought to be brought forward and the public do
itfelf juflice, that the mass of the people may
not be precluded from individual purchases by
such nominal and extensive grants.
But the mofl contemptible error of which our
councils have been guilty, was the surveying
ranges, as they are called, for the purpose of a
sale ; by which there is a great expense, which
the sale will not defray. It is true, the expense
was more than it might have been. The late
geographer general, appointed for this business,
was an amiable man, but not of prompt mmd and
decisive execution ; more calculated to make
the delineations of a map, than to go into a
wilderness and execute iurveys. The artisans
employed under him, the greater part, were total
ly incompetent; under the necessity to learn
ihe firft rudiments of art after their appoint
ment ; a member ofCongrefs, or other person
of a temporary influence, recommending his
connexions, without the least science, and, in
, some inflances, without capacity to acquire it.
I have seen young men at Pittfburg learning the
firft principles, letting a compass or calculating
I pace ; and, what wa, mote ridiculous, affcfclirg
li i afcrrlain a meridian or take an obfe vatloti '
lat three weeks before wouid not have known'
| com pass from a cow's horn, had it been pre
ott'd to them. Hence, delay and imperfefb
;:ecurion of the Service ; for when executed
an any line be traced so as to give poSTcSTion to
1 c puchafer :
But suppose it so, the fyfiem was radically
; wrong, the true principte being- that of optninj
i.;:) office and the issuing warrants. Let the
warrantee find his land, and survey it; with
:,,is rellriftion only, and inffruftion to the S'ur
vevor, that on any water, be laid out a certain
; (tent, one third at rtioft, in proportion to the
depth.
It will be said, the bed foil will be taken, and
Ithe unfaieable left. I fay,that where the be ft is
i iken and occupied the inferior becomes valua
ble, theimprovcmcnt of a country always raifingj
the inferior to the value of what the best origi
nally was.
The ifluing warrants is a plain direst mode, of
no expense to the public and pleating to the
• people, and.itought to be pursued. The interell
that individuals immed a.ely acquire fixes them
tothefpot and Secures a cultivator, producing
an advancing column of inhabitants, the source
■of wealth and revenue, to fuflain the immense
ind unnatural load os-debt that is now upon us.
Unnatural, 1 fay; for it grows not out of plain
jj.d uncontefled light, but op. certificates ilfued
liberally at a time when they were thought to
be of little worth, and oftentimes on collusive
j vouching and consideration, in a great degree
jgioundlefs. Bull fay unnatural more efpenal
ly, because this debt grows out of catching
bargain contracts in the alienation of certificates:
a great evil, but not now to be remedied ; the
only queflion being what shall be our ways and
means to fuflain the burthen. The sale of the
weflern lands is a great jobjefi, and under pro-,
per management may be made productive.
The people look forward to the use of this pro
perty, and will not heartily acquiesce in taxes
airetf or indirect, until it shall be seen v. hat can
be made of this fund. The idea of furvevs at
the public expense is pernicious ; and what 1
have had in view to expose and reprobate. It
originated in the theories of visionary men in
Congrels, who knew nothing of matter of fact
und real bufinels. i hope bitter things for
the future.
But the people are discouraged at what they
hear of the accumulation of the public debt ;
the alfumption to di(charge farther claims. It
is true no man who has rendered real and sub
stantial Service to the public Should have reason
to complain that he has not his due. Neverthe
less it is a great Serbonian bog. on which we
ought to tr-.-.id lightly. When there is too much
lo pay, an individual lefes hope to pav at all
| "I"! ; pubhc mind is of the lap., chamfcW being
• ot'ihaj of iodi> luldt
the account fwel! beyond th<* hf., •' .up- '
tion, the SirSl thing that flukes tin mind is to
fiiffer bankruptcy and begin on anew ground.
PHILADELPHIA.
February 13, 1792.
Authentic Extraß of a kite f,'rem a gentle
man of the bcjl information at Have, duhd'
OSloirr 15.
" Our harvefl has not turned out quite!
so well as last year, \vefhail be in want, j
not here; but at Nantes, Bourdeaux, and;
Bayonne. Thole province , mult depend !
upon strangers for fupplie=, for the more!
fertile parts of France have not yet an idea i
of succouring those of a contrary descrip
tion, and if they had, the means of transmit
ting their produce are obstructed. About
fifteen days Since the English o r ned their
seaports to us; notwithstanding which I
have reason"to think that the inhabitant of
the United States will not be diibnpointed
of a good market in fend ng their grain to
tlie above mentioned port
Another letter from the fame gentleman,
dated Octob. 27, mentions r." fellows :
" Virginia tobacco is felling from 34 to 40
livres per cwt. This is reckoned a good
price."
The committee of the focicty for promoting
ufefpl manufaciures were to meet at New Brunl
witken Friday last, for the purpose of examin
ing and fixing upon the mod eligible position
for the principal feat of the grand manufacto
ry —we hear further that a number of patrio
tic gentlemen in and about Elizabeth Town
have it in contemplation to eflabliSh a company
forthe proferution of a valuable manufafctory
at Springfield, whole local advantages give it
the preference to mofl places in the slate.
" The immense utility of a bank in thi:
city (fays an Albany paj.er) becomes more
and more evident every hour." Among o
ther advantages expected to accrue from
an Albany bank, is theprofpectofits opera
ting as a barrier againlt the grasping mono
poly of the city oi ISew-lork . and that,
after a Short period, the paper iSTued from
this bank will be received current in that
city as Specie. One hundred thousand
dollars, is is fuppo'fed,will be a fuSficient ca
pital ; (if calculated to embrace Albany,
Hudson, New City, Scheneaady, and
Troy,) the capital to be paid in by install
ments.—lt appears there is but one objec
tion of consequence urged against the esta
blishment of this bank, viz. it ought not to
be attempted, btcaiifc there never has been a
' l .nk in Albany ; which as the f.ime piper
j justly oblerves " ought not to weigh a (ei
ther in'the scale against the probable ad
vantages."
The Pdtjburgb paptr of February 4 vrnticm that
by the arrival of a gentleman at that place im
mediately from Kentucky, the following intelli
gence is received
That just before he left the falls of Ohio
an express had palled along on his way to
' °rt Wafliington, with difpatchesfrom the
commandant at Post \ incennes for the
Governor, the purport of which was. that
he had sent a French man and an Indian
across the country to the Miami towns,
with some dispatches, in hopes of finding
our army there ; that on their arrival they
;bund the towns deserted, except by a few
women ; that for fear of being; discovered
they buried their dispatches, and then pro
ceeded to meet our army, but had not
gone more than five 01- fix miles before they
met a party of 30 Indians returning with
the-.r (hare of the plunder, one of them had
127 scalps strung on a pole, the reft were
heavilv loaded with different articles, and
they had three pack-horses loaded with
kegs of wine, &c. The Indians immedi
ately accused them of being fp'es. but 011
making enquiry and examining tirem very
ji.' iutely, belived them friends, they were
then obliged to return with them to the
towns, and the Indians gave them a full ac
count of the battle, (which agrees with the
account heretofore publifiied) except, that
only 1200 Indians were in the engagement,
and that these were Miamies and Indians
from the lakes; that too arr'ved the dav
after the battle, and were out huntin"*
to supply the reft, which was their whole
jorce ; that a dispute aro;e about dividing
the plunder between them and the lake
Indians, the latter wilhing to have that of
the smallest buik and e aheft carriage, as
they had a great way to go, hut the form
er. refufed: this greatly en raged the 1 ike In
dians-who began to use the torn hawk, bat
did not do milch damage, however, they
went off very much difl'atisfied, determined
never again to come to the a.Tiftance of the
Miamies, let the consequence? be what they
would ; and that only 56 Indian? were kil
led.—After giving them thi: information
they were permitted to proceed homewards
with a promlfe of fenci i g ti) ma trad?;,
(which was theßpfmefs tne Frcnchr.-ar. said
they were upon) as they had /; much plun
der as would mpiy do tj}cin al! winter.
We are aho informed, jfchat an expedition
coilfiftiii .' of 500. men. 0,1 horseback, •.« •• r<»
ijofroni Kentucky the b hhi-.ii;gc>f TV ma*
i-y, nft "he "ii:imievtowns, ; f^o^l*
r •<'-* Jl'
. e flatter otirfeives thoPd towns are ' 'a
i/he before now. TWe is no doubt but
Jiis expedition ha? taken place, as our in
ormant had the information from a person
hat may be depended on.
ExtraS. of a letter from an officer in the EnzV/k
army, in the Eajl-Indies, tinder Lord Cor nwalL
dated July Is. y
I \viit give an outline of our fit-nation,
nit must caution you against crediting one
)i.aoie in the Courier, filled as if is, with
xirty opinions, and panegyrics. T'h o com-
Mete conquest of all Tippoo's Southern
lert us not onlv secure from any
nifchief in that quarter,' but afforded lis
rreat supplies of grain and cattle, and a
revenue of 12 lacks beside. Lord Corn-
I all's joined the army early in February.
Fie and Meadows have united in every opi
jioii (as yet) ; they moved forward and
made a glorious conquest of Bangalore. —
II was really a great aflion to take it in si»
(hort a time-but alas '. the days since have
been not so fair. The delays in joining
uol. Oldham's detachment, from Tri chi
li opoly, near Amboor (a force net wanted)
ind the little attention paid to the loss of
:ime in flow mirches, and long halts,
Drought the Monsoon from the Weft Coast
o the relief of Seringapatam. Upon coin
"g'm fight of that place, lord Cornwallis
md general Meadows, finding Tippoo's
lyhole army polled too ftrongto be attack
ed in front, made a silent and long march
ound in the night with all the army (ex~
:e pt the baggage guard) on the 14th of
Vlay, leaving all their tents ft'anding ; but
:he n ght prov.ng tempestuous with thun
ler-ftorms and violent rains, instead of
:oming to their willied-for place at dav
ireak, they did not arrive till o'clock
:he 15th.
This gave Tippoo time to form to re
ceive them, and the attack was made in
:wo bodies by our two commanders with
iilour infantry and guns; Tippoo in person
tood the charge lor feverai hours, and his
:roops fell pulhing the bayonet; our army
lever had an idea of his troops Handing so
long and so resolutely. At length theSul-
retreated over the river, which was
lufficiently high to be a very conliderable
impediment, but such was the order and
judgment of his retreat, his troops fighting
nobly as they went, that he got upwards
of 80 guns over.the river, and all his bag-
S a ge, in spite of the eitorts and exertions
of our whole army. We could get but
four nine pounders, and the honor of oc
cupying all his polls 011 this fide the river.
\\ e lolt joo men killed and wounded, and
~ veral officers, but his loss must have beenVery great. Siich a retrent convinced
lord Cornwall!? that he had a very able
general to contend with.
" Our army remained about Seringapa
tam till the 25th, when they were obliged
(from the destroying our cattle, and for
age not being procurable) to burst the car
riages and stores, and set out for Banga
lore.
The 20th, the Mlhrattas under Hurry
Pundit and Purferaiii Boliw, joined lord
Gornwallis without any previous notice,
r id brought 30.000 horse, 20.000 foot, for
;we, and provisions. The Mahrattas are
gallant soldiers ; the Nizams, vile dastard-
Iv raggamuffins. Upon this junction,
which was a saving event, our army halted,
and on the 20th of June, after fluffing
rround often, they were within forty miles
of Seringapatam ; fcmetimes they had been
in fight, then off again, for provisions, &c.
" The fact now is, we have loft almost
pil our bullocks, our guns burst, ourfhot
iTid battering stores thrown into the river,
two-thirds of our cavalry dead, and the
troopers on foot, in great distress for grain,
forage and provision the army in Spi
rits, keeping near Bangalore, waiting for
bullocks, guns, and stores, and in hopes
by the 15th of August, to set forward
again with frefli supplies of all kinds for
the reduction of the capital ; all hands in
""all parts setting about procuring bullocks,
and at last a "libera l price is allowed for
them by his Lordship's orders ; but this
lhould have been done at f>rft
>• General Abercrombie with 8000 fight
ing men and a good train of artillery, has
made a precipitate retreat from Comradin
Khan, the favorite friend of Tippoo, de
tached from Seringapatam to dislodge him :
lie took four guns and all his baggage, and
to Col. Hartley, and Capt. Wahab of our
Coast battalion, does the general owe the
Civil! ■ the reft of his train ; they and some
office'srefolved to preserve part of the
guns, during the retreat of the army to
Tellicherry.
" This tyrant (as lie was supposed)
Tippoo Sultan, to our amazement i: be'ov
ed by all his subjects ; our army has learn
ed, to their astonishment, that he had
kept up the belt government in his coun
tries the people ever experienced—the in
habitants were free, protected and afflu
ent. fpealcing of him as their father —they
wiflied not for a change—and not a real
inhabitant would quit or desert him: these
are undeniable facts, and not a trace of
the smallest oppreflion seemed to exist. If
lie had not used our prisoners so ill last
war, what a refpeftable character would
he be ? To onr lurp-ize, no man of rank
1 iinif over, no there any , ,i"!S of
difaffettion to him, only about 3®J ir.hgni
ficant rascals altogether have de.erted his
cause -upon the whole he is a very great
man."
ExtraEl from the frocecdings of the Hoafeof Re
presentatives of the State of South Carolina.
"Thursday, December 1 .
" Rtfolved una imoujly. That this House do
n CT ree with the following report ol the committee
to whom was referred the Governor's Meflage,
ericlofing a memorial of Monf. PoLONEY, viz.
That the Agent for foreign creditors be and is
hereby dire<fted to furnifh such fupphes ef pro
visions and (lores as Monsieur POLONEY flial
think fit to order for the use of the inhabitants
of the French portion of the Island of St. Do
mingo, to the amount of a sum not exceeding
three thousand pounds "
" A motion was made by Mr Hunter, anc
seconded by Mr Adam Crain Jones, that the
House do enter into the following refutation,
viz. .
"Rejclved, that the Delegates in Congreh
from this State be requefled to use their influence
to obtain a repeal or a revifal of the ast, enti
tled, An ast repealing after the lafl day ol
June, next, the duties heietofore laid upon
diflilled spirits within the United State , and foi
appropriating the fame lo far as relates to ;
tax upon {tills oron spirituous liquors, diflilled
from the materials of the growth or pioduce o
the United States"—lt palled in the negative-
Yeas, 45 —Noes, 47.
The legislature of South-Carolina, at thei
last f-flion, palled the following acts : An as
to authorize the holders of the foreign debt it
France, to redeem the fame in Amflerdam"---
" An ast for incorporaimg the lociety of free
and accepted Masons" in that State—" Ar
ast to incorporate the Grand Lodge of the ftat<
of South Carolina Ancient York Masons
and Jurifdiftions" —" An ast to permit the
exhibition of Theatiical Entertainments undei
certain regulations."
Important obfervatinni vpon the Shoals of Nantucket,
Jot the benefit ofthofe who jail to New-England.
[Tranjlatedfrom a Frenchmanufcript communicatee
to the Editorfor publication.]
FROM my observations on the charts of
the North American Seas, and books that
treat of this navigation, I find that it is the
general opinion that the Nantucket shoals,
upon which the sea breaks, are about twen
ty leagues in extent, and lying in 40 degrees
of North latitude. Hence it is that navi :
gators begin to be alarmed and take need
less precautions while yet a great distance
off, which is frequently the oceafibn of re
tarding the voyage considerably.
M. Donrville, an officer of long experi
ence in the French navy, and who, in the
time of the late war, was upon the New-
England coasts, in quality of lieutenant of
one of the ships belonging to the Unitec
States, and is of the order of the Cincinna
ti; made a discovery in 1787, which recti
fies the mistakes of former navigators.
Being mailer of the brigantine Twb-Sif
ters, and on his paifage from St. Pierre, a tic:
Miquelon, to the French American islands,
and finding himfelf near these famous shoals
which, like other navigators, he mud;
dreaded ; he founded, examined, and re
peated his operations at his leifttre. failing
round them several times, and making the
aeceflary obfervation-., with due regard tc
the fafety of his vessel and crew ; and co
ming as near as was confident with pru
dence. —The following is the result of his
examination : 1. The shoals are of a coni
cal form, and where they are really danger
jus, not more in extent than twenty fa
thoms, so that there is little more dangei
as a vessel running accidentally upon them
than there is, of her running foul of ano
ther vessel in the common route betweei
France and America. 2. With regard tt
the foundings ; M. Dourville found foui
athoms a league distant from the point e:
the breakers; at the distance of two (hip
eugths from the fame breakers there wen
two and an half fathoms. 3. By fevera
ibfervations of the latitude of this shoal
taken with the most scrupulous exaftnef:.
it different times, it was found that the
breakers lie in latitude 40 degrees, 35 mi -
lutes, and bearing about south-east of Nan
;ucket island.
The above is conformable to the report
:>f M. Dourville, certified by him at Balti
more July 12, 179 1 -
DELAMOTTE, Consul for the Uni
ted States at Havre de Grace.
Vravflatei extraflsfrom the Leyden Gazette (re
ceived. by the Britf/h packet,) to the 2d Dcc. mher.
Brvjjels, Nov. 27. The di'.putes are at length
erminaied, relative to the refufal oi' the dates ol
Brabant to recognize the sovereignty of the Em.
>eioi's council in this province, as actually con
lituted. The States have acknowledged the lc
;al authority of the council, so that there is now
:verv appearance of a good underlianding taking
>lace, and the publication of a general amnell)
s looked for every day. We have had number
els falfe reports scattered through these provin
esof the King of France and his family having
iga n quitted the capital and retired to Valen
icnnes. It is discovered that this ftovy was fa
iricated bv the French emigrants, with :
new to prevent their deluded countiyinen fron
returning hdme, upon hearing of the dccKt a
ninft the emigrants, and the letters of Loui
16th to his brothers ; and,Jeccndiy, to encouragi
heir party to invade Fiance without further de
ay, for which purpose the greatell part of then
ivere airembled atCoblence and Worms.
Paris, Nov. 11. The decree, so long ex
jetted, relative :o the emigrants, was at lalt de
finitively concluded in the session of the 9th ir.ft
A. decree of this nature cannot be latisfafloril)
inalyfed or abridged ; we therefore give it en
ire, as follows :
" The Assembly of the nation, confiderinj
[hat the tranquility and security of the kingdon
iemand the most prompt mcalures against fuel
jf the French as 1 ave fled out of the kingdom
ind are preparing to ast against the nation, &c
1o iflue and make known the following De
CR.EE. 1. The French iflembled beyond th<
frontiers of the kingdom- are, from this 1110
iTient declared fufpetted of conspiracy again!
France. 2. If, 011 the firft day of J.uiuarj
lext they still continue i-ffembled, they thall bi
Jeclared guilty of treason ; shall be profecutei
\s traitors, and punished with death. 3. As tc
he French Princes, and public officers, civi
md military (who were so inveftcd at the time oi
heir quitting theircountry) if liill absent 011 the
ill of January, 1792, they shall l:e declarct
;uilty of the crime of Trealon against Fiance
ind punished as in the preceding article. 4
Duting the firft 15 days in January the iuprcmt
ourt of the nation shall be assembled, if necef
atv. 5. The property of the outlawed traitors,
hall, during their lives, be appropriated to the
ervice of the nat:on, reserving however the rights
if women children and legal creditors. 6. All
lie revenuesof the absent French Piinces are at
his moment fequeff rated. No intercourse can
>e had, diietlly or indirectly with, or remittance
nade to the said Princes, or their reprefenta
lves, under pain of responsibility, and two years
mpiifonment, until otherwise ordered by the
National Assembly. [We omit the following
ix articles as less important] 13. Every French
man, out of the kingdom, who fiiah enlist foldi
:rs to join the assembled forces, mentioned in
he two firft articles of this decree, shall be pu
lifhed with death. The fame puniftlment to be
iwarded against perpetrators of the fame crime 111
France. 14. The Assembly enjoins its diplo
matic committee to propose mealures to be ta
cen by the king, in the name of the nation, with
regard to such of the neighbouring powers, as
ountcnance the Assembly of French fugitives in
heir territories —the committee to make their
report in three days.
Kcv. 11. The Decree of the Assembly rela
tive to the eleigy, altho' a long time under con
sideration, and debated paragraph by paragraph,
is farfrom being_univerfally approved. It is by
many thought too ftvere and opprefTive towards
those who ast from motives purely confcicnci
aus, but perfeQlv just with regard to counter
feit religionilts—By the sth article of the de
cree the nOnjuring clergy are pronounced Jij
hefted of treafen againjltkc laze, cr.dof evil de
signs againjt their country, and are recommendec
to the particular observance of the magistracy ir
every difirift—the Bth enjoins, that every eccle
fiaflic who fball be conviQed of difiurbing the
public peace by words, writings, or a£hons.
(hall be punifned with twoveais imprisonment.
Several departments of the capital have
Droceeckd to the nomination of a Mayor.
The minds of the people, however, are di
vided 011 the proper choice. Those who
ire for a government purely republican
jave fixed upon the ex-deputy cleChartres
is poffefling all the r£quilites for Mayor ot
Paris.—Those, on the contrary, who re
:olle£t the noble part the Marquis de la
Fayette acted in the caule of liberty in
America, and the fcourage he afterwards
manifefted in placing her upon the sure ba
1s of the Constitution in France— those al
ia who remember the good order which
as maintained in Paris, amidst allthe con
fulfiorn of government, while he was at
the he.°d of the military, his intelligence,
[lis a&ivity, which alone prevented Paris
from experiencing those horrid scenes
which have fmce been exhibited at Avig
non— all those who keep those things in
mind, are for the Hero of the two
worlps. What seems {till further to de
signate the Marquis as the fitteft man for
this port atprefent, is, the fear that, party
[pint, which now lies dormant, may be
rouled into action at the nomination of a
man who is devoted to the republican fac
tiqn.
WdrjXw, Nov. 11. Of all European sove
reigns, none feetns so much intent upon rellor
ing the French monarchy as the Empress of Rul-
This is proved from the vail attention
{he vn to the French ex-Princes and the emi
grarts nv every delcription, for whom (lie claims
the fulfilment of the declaration at Pilnitz. The
kings of Sweden and Spain seem to have the
fameopinion as Catharine, with regard to France.
Bu> with the Emperor of Germany the cafe is
widely different ; he infills that Louis's accept
ance of the confiitution was a voluntary ast, and
that therefore the interference of foreign powers
is highly absurd. England, it is said, has pofi
tivcly refufed intermeddling m the affairs ol
France, excusing herfelf on the grounds of tnfu
lar lituation and commercial charatter,
Avignon, Nov. 8. The emigrations from A
vignon.since the gates have been thrown open,
are really afionilhing. Of 30,060 people,
which Avignon contained, there scarcely remain
6000, including women and children. Yefler
day the troops of the national alferobly marched
into the city, under M. de Choify.
— — - —
PARI S, Dec. 2.
The court seems to feel the mod lively
sensations on account of the report of the
king's escape ; and so anxious has the kins
been to do away the impression of this ru
mour, that he has ordered the minister o:
the home department to write the follow
ing letter to the mayor of Paris :
" SIR.
" The king has been informed that re
ports are spread abroad, and that they ari
endeavored to be forced upon the citizens
tendingto alarm and disturb the public tran
quility. The king has been told, that per
haps to-morrow some pretended courier
are to enter upon all fides of Paris, witl
the news of the princes having euterec
France, sword in hand; and at the fam<
time a second report, that the king ha
quitted Paris. This information, given b;
serious and experienced persons,. merits th<
more attention, as fonie anterior fails ma
nifeft a marked intention to excite a com
motion in Paris, feu are not ignorant
that a non-commissioned officer, afortnigh
back, confined his majesty, under the pre
text of a pretended project of escape. Th<
fame pretext has been lince employed tt
disturb the reserve of the ' Hotel de Ville
Yesterday they proclaimed in one of the fu
burbs, that the king was no longer in Paris
in fliort, certain public prints collect anc
propagate those rumours with an uncom
mon inuuftry.
" The king has charged me, fir, to in
form you of these culpable manoeuvres, no
doubting but you will take suitable mea-
to preserve the capital from the difor
dersthat may other wife be the consequence.
The minister of the home department.
B. C. CAHIER.'
Nov. 30, at night.
It is remarkable, that on the fame day ac
counts were received ft om Germany, Hol
land, and Flanders, of the king's escape :
at Cologne the report went fofar as to fay.
that the king and queen had arrived fafe a!
the caltle of Bonn, where he waited the ar
rival of the eleitor from Vienna. Thai
Madame Elizabeth, and the dauphin, hac
taken another route, and had arrived neai
Manheim. The council of the elector gave
orders to have 40 horses at each post froir
the frontiers, ready harnefl'ed. TheCouni
d'Artois was expected the day this lettei
was wrote (the 2 4th of Nov ember). 11 al
so mentions that Liege seems to be deter
mined on as the place for the general can
tonment. The marquis de la Vilette ii
marihal general of the camp and forage
and within these eight days lie lias made
preparations for the quartering of 10,000
men, all cavalry, with their baggage, and a
quantity of flying artillery : 6,000 Helfian
cavalry are already hired. These united to
the troops at Coblentz, and in the Palati
nate, will form a most formidable army of
cavalry.
It seems clearly that the intention of the
emigrants is. to keep up a frontier war,
and by constantly changing situation, to
harafsthe patriots, until their plots in the
internal parts of the kingdom may give
them more opportunities of penetrating
the country.
The levies made by individuals affected
to the Aristocratic party are incredible;
Count Wergenftein. a colonel in the Ruf
fian service, has raised a regiment of two
battallions in the Principalities of lfen-
and Budiaguen , another under the
name of Royal-Rohan, is forming above
Coblentz ; a third, in the fame electorate,
-aifed by M. Sinclair, is just complete ;
:hey are full of money—who fu mi flies it
r.oct knows; for the moil inviolable fe
:recy and perfect unanimity, exists amongst
hein, and has kept all their plans impervi
ous to every eflay 1:0011 the part of the pa
:iots todifcover.
These accounts add to the general dif
:iuiet at Paris : yesterday was a day of con
ufion. About one o'dock the gardens of
he Thuilleries were, as in the firft days of
:he revolution, full of orators and little
nobs ; fume railed against the Jacobines,
others against the King, for refuting to
mng all the Ex-nobles. Thus the day was
oafl'ed, and in the evening the Palais Royal
oegan a renewal of its old fceneo ; the
CafFe de l ai was the place of action : ail
Abbe, indiscreet enough to rail against the
;di£t just pafled, was ordered to leave the
:otfee-houfe, if he did not wilh to be liang
;d. This raised the spirits, which conti
nuing in that state all the evening, broke
out at length into a quarrel by nine o'clock,
ivhich required the intervention of the ISa
rional guard io suppress : several persons
lave been Lruifed, and fume severely
wounded-
Copy of the Declaration of the Court of
Vienna, to the Powers of Europe.
HIS Imperial Majesty makes known to
ill the Courts, to whom he sent the firft
circular letter, dated Padua, the 6th July
! now adding to the number. Sweden,
Denmark, Holland and Portugal) that the
lituation of the King of the French, which
occasioned the said circular letter, being
changed, he thinks it hi- duty to inanifeft
to the said Powers his present manner of
thinking.
His Imperial Majesty thinks, that the
King of the French, fhonld be canlidersd as
free: and, in consequence, his acceptation
and all the subsequent acts, as valid. He
hopes, that the etfeft of the fa'd accepta
tion will restore good order in France, and
that the moderate party may prevail ac
cording to the view of his Molt Christian
Majesty. But as the hopes .of the King
may, contrary to all appearance, be abor
tive, and as all the disorders of riot, and
excel 1 : of violence, in regard to the King,
may be renewed, his Imperial Majesty
thinks, that all the Powers to whom this
isaddrefed ought not yet to desist from
the mealures concerted between them, but
continue vigilant; and that they ought to
declare, by their refpeitive Ministers atPa
ris that their coalition fubflfts, and they are
ready to support in concert, jon every occa
(ion, the rights of the King, and of th*
French Monarchy.
Vienna, Nov. 19, 1791.
The above state paper Is of considerable
importance ; we mult, however, observe,
that so late as the 23d November, it had
not been officially published at Vienna.
FRRATUM. —In our last, page 3
Under the head of Western Discove
ries, the third line from the end, for an
tiquity, read, antipathy.
PRICE of STOCKS.
Si* per cents, per £. - 24/5 —24/6.
Three per cents, - - 14JJ —1
Deterred fix per cents, - 14/10.
Final Settlements - - 22/ S.
Indents, - - J4/3.
Bank Stock 1-2 Shares 101, pr. ct. prem.
Canal prizes 7odol. advance.
M ETEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
February, 1792.
D. H. Bar. Ther. Wind.lWcath.
Monday, 6. 730.05 31 n.w.Fair.
2 30. 1 43 do. ditto.
Tutjday, 7. 730. 226 n. e. Cloudy.
2 30. 5 28 do. Snow.
Wednesday-, 8. 729. 7 26 n. e. Cloudy.
2 2 9* 75 34 d°* Snow.
Thurjday, 9. 729. 8 29 n.w. Fair.
2 29. 85 38 do. ditto.
Friday, 10. 7 29. g3O calm. Cloudy.
2 29. 85 40 do. jditto.
Saturday, 11.730. 25 27 n. e.Cloudy.
2'30. 231 do. I ditto.
Sunday, 12. 7,30. 1 25 n. E.lCloudy.
2 30. 1 28 do- [ditto.or iliall be, from time to time, pus chafed, or paid off, or received In dtfcharge of any debt cr demand
of the United States, made payable in public securities—over and above the interest of any new
debt, which may be created, in order to luch purchase or payment.
Ihe purchsfes of the debt already made have left a sum of interest in the Treasury, which will
he eilcreafed by future purchases—certain sums payable to the United States in their own securi
ties, will, when received, have a similar effedt. And these is ground to calculate on a saving upon
the operations which are in execution with regard to the foreign debt. The sale of the West
ern Lands, when provision shall be made for it, may bt expelled to produce a material addition to
such a fund.
It is therefore submitted, that it be adopted as a principle, that all interest which shall have ceas
ed to be payable, by any of the means above fpecified, shall be set apart and appropriated in the
most firm and inviolable manner, as a fund for finking the public debt, by purchase or payment j
and that the said fund be placed under the direction of the officers named inthefecond fedlion of
the adl making provision for the redu&ion of the public debt, to be by them applied towards the
purchase of the said debt, until the annual produce of the said fund shall amount to two per cent,
of the entire portion of the debt which bears a present interest of fix per centum, and thenceforth
to be applied, towards the redemption ot that portion of the debt) according to the right which has
been relerved to the government.
It will deserve the ccnfideration of the legislature, whether this fund ought not to be so vested,
as to acquire the nature and quality of a proprietary trust, incapable of being diverted, without z
violation of the principles and fanttions of property.
A rapiJ accumulation of this fund would arise from its own operation ; but it is not doubted]
that the progrefiive developement of the resources of the country, and a reduction of the rate of in
terest, by the progress of public credit, already exemplified in a confidcrable degree, will fpeedil)
enable the government to make important additions to it, in various ways. With due attention tc
preserve order and cultivate peace, a strong expectation may be indulged, that a reduction of the
debt of the country w;ll keep pace with the reasonable hopes of its citizens.
All which is humbly submitted.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, Secretary of the Treasury.
CO
s **! H
5 K_
a rr>
U £
- a
5S
3 n. Hi
S
m >
" oq
s
a H
J
<£ -N 5"
o s& "
g^c
L /T 1
H
ol -
VJ *-
-H. OO
J
st. or 1
a H
Z w
C/ 3
• o
The amount of Stock funded at the Treafurv tn c» * l
with accuracy, but at that time many tad bee/mlTd ; 7 hh bSen afcerta ' ned
;J for want of proper powers of attorn* aXrhtdt ™* mad \ wb,cl ? h "<= been adjust-
Fettlement of all the loans the amount will be probab J e that on
represented. different from what is now
The sums funded at the several loan-offices it nr.r„~. i /-
is the loans had ?not been adjusted in all instances when thi- 'etJ* ' lncd wich accuracy; bu:
differences will probably heieafter sppear. ' ' " rnS were raa^= > some immaterial
Treasury Department,
■Regifler's-OJicc, September 30, 1791.
JOSEPH NOURSE, Reg,fir.
B.
STATEMENT of the Ricistijed and Unsubscribed Debt of the TJ J c ~ ,
" W "f"** ** <>* of the Loan on the 30 th{/l p lZ[ r 'T' ""
REGISTERED or UNFUNDED DEBT. n ■ r „ ,
The amount of this debt as dated to Congress on the ,d
March *789, was - *
Thcr« were T.cafury certificate# ifTued in exchange "for Loan- 4,59 ,462 ' 78
Ohice and Final Settlement Certificates, cancelled by the Au
ditor of the Treasury, from 3d March 1789, to ooth
June, 1791 _ _ J
There have been certificates issued to invalid pensioners and 4 ' 716 ' 376 * 4 5
otliers, entitled thereunto, on final settlement in pursuance of
aits of Congress of the present and late government, '34 88 - 18
Of the said debt there has been loaned as follows, viz, 9.449,722- 4'
Prom the opening of the loan to 31ft of March
Ift April to 30th June, 179,, j',III',III', bl
111 July to 30th September, 1,611,194. Si
Which being dedufled leaves a balance, ~~ ' 4-°71>639- 79
Principal sum due to the several creditors on the treafurv books c 11R c..
The interest due on said debt to 31ft December, s>37iO?i. 62
1790, is as follows, viz.
Arrearages to 31ft December 1787, 449,677. SS
Ti)ree>e»rs interest from ift January, i 7 SB, to
31ft December, ,790 . 968,054. 76
'>4i7i732- 64
Registered debt principal and interest ' ,
UNSUBSCRIBED DEBT. " " 6 >795> 8, 5- 26
The debt unfubferibed upon the books. New-Jersey, Pennfyivania
and Maryland, amounts to
Interest - . ; C
3>'34- 9i
i S> 6 74- 62
Credits on the treasury books to invalid penfionert, and several
corps for which certificates of registered debt are yet to be issued.
INVALID PENSIONERS,
For the amount due to them, under the ast of Congress, provid
ing for the payment of their arrearages c.
50,152. 76
Carried Forward, . 56,152. 76 88
zz '\%VL6L ( -\ < c £o£'i££<oi 6L -ZsZ'sso'Z £> -oSVLLi'bi
£ -££z'/,6 6c-go o'Z£ z6-fl,o ( oz zB-6fi'ot - viSjozq
88 - 6oi'66c 'ogo'g6 89' c ££*99£'f£i vui/ouvj-c/fnog
Si •i'66'gs S£ '86f'6 ii'i£S i g £ •fgo ( £i vut/cuvj-c/juofij
gz-toi'tzo'i zz'Bzi l £t£ S£-g66'gzz 6g-6i6 ( £Sf viuiSma
f£ •oi6 i i6g'i gfr "ggi'izg Si-£o6'gS£ lisig'iii - puvj/Ltvp y
$S'6zS'Ss SL'zfz i g i 6i *i6i'9? - duvtnvprj
of-zoVzig l £ iz-giz'Sgg 6£-o£i i S£6 og-SSt'iig'i vmv^fuuzj
Si •/^8 c °8 6 ii'6*i'iiz g6-gS£'g£z iS-gzi'zif -
Si-£Sz l 6f6'f g6-fzz'£f g c i si-sio'zoi'i Z •gio'f'oz'z - yaoj-m,^
89 •B^c'S'fo < i 66'ogi'zf£ g£ ~£zg l o£z i£ 'bfg'igV - wipjjjauuoj
g6 •o66'g6S \i'iiS'-6i\ SS '£og'6£i zi'6og i 6iz • puvi/i-spoq^
SI 'tSS<£ii<S ii T 'iSb'f g6 ( i f6 •p£o'£go'i of'zgo'gzi'z suafncpvJJbyq
i 'loir t t?£ir S£ '£zf e ifi zz'igg ( S6 ft 'zz£'i6i autcj/ifiuppj-awflr
Iz 'Sz6 ( 6f i'l i oi 'Sgg'£ i6 c £ zL 'gio'z6S'z if 'ifo'vgi'S - Lunfvauj^
•SJQ -sjT! n oa; SJ D -sso -sjenoa -SJO "SJETioa
•luntmv w)o T 'j?/ yotf'iu» "pots
"lu?o x?cf b prpunj A?q q psxu?f?(j 'juzj xuf q papunj
Dots. Cents. Dots. Cts.
. Brought forward. 56,152. 76.6,811,489.88
Ihe following corps have credit on the treasury boul;:,, being for
certain certificates of final settlement, returned to the tleafury
and canceled, and which certificates had ifft'ed to tie non-com
missioned officers and soldiers of laid corps, rtfpeilively for their
pay.
uth regiment Pennsylvania artillery .
:orps of light dragoons . . i.cog! 83
"valid regiment - . -g
\rtillery artificers - - 386. 28
billet's regiment - . _ 6 '
-fazen'. regiment . . JJ>26
Baldwin s dt>. of artificers . _ zii. ~14
Torps of Cappers and miners - - 416. D ,
Irmand's legion - .
.ee *5 legion - . '
4th Pennsylvania Regiment.
2apt. North's company . . . 487.67
Lacy's, .... 1,062.97
1,550. 64
"ranklin's company of militia . . 280.67
individual creditors of the states of Pennsylvania and Ma
ryland, have credit on the treasury books, being for
certificates of final settlement returned to the treatury,
and cancelled, and which certificates had ifl'ued to them
refpeflively.
iy Benjamin of Penn
sylvania ' 5436. 66
John White, Maryland . . . 693.89
6,130.55
86,118. 91
mterelt upon the foregoing credits 21.529. 72
107,648. 65
Dollars, 6,919,138.51
Treasury Department,
Regijers Office, 30M November, 1791. JOSEPH NOURSE, R-giJler.
C
ESTIMATE of the OUTSTANDING DEBT, cn the Z otb September, ,791, viz.
The amount of the Domestic Debt of the United States, as Oated by the Secretary of the Treasury in
his leport of the 9th January, 179 c, to the House of Reprel'entatives, relative to a piovifion for th
lupport of thf Public Credit, is as follows, viz. Dots. Cts
Liquidated and loan-office debt as per f.hedule C. . _ 27 118-j 017 67
interest thereon to the 3,ft December, 1790, as per do. D. - . 20
Additional sum for finking the continental kills of credit, and lor the discharge of
the other parts of the unliquidated debt, . . 2,000,000.
From which deduct amount, as per (latement A. . , 1,797,401. 22 4 I4 ' o ° s ' Sr
Amount of the icgiftered debt and credit with interest, per do. B. 6,919,158. 51
38,716,619. 73
Balance out.landing, 3,697,466, 14
Note The balance above dated to be outstanding probably exceeds the real sum. In the origi
nal eftiihate the old emiflion bills were computed at 40 for 1, but ihey have been provided for at 100
Qr '• There are also loan-office certificates wh-> h were lent to public officers to be applied to the
)üb,ic lervjce, and which weie fuppoled to have been so applied, but which have since, upon fettle
nents or their accounts at the Treasury, been returned and cancelled.
In addition to this, pajments in public fecuritiet are expeftcd to bemade into the Treasury, whic : i
v 1 thereupon be cancelled. And it is prcfuniable that in the course of tl.e war, sums have been
oil and deflro. Ed which are included,!,, the eflin,. e«. Ttmt a, I, f„ loe it, -lagr of re> eft not
nc; ed 1:1 the calculation, and as there are certain claims on the Treasury, rile event or amount of
vhich is not yet determined, it is not possible now to make a precise estimate of the difference between
he sum computed to bsKiutffanding and what will be really found so.
JOSEPH NOURSE, Reeifter
i reafurv Department, Reg:lter's Office, Nor. 30th, 1791. "
STATEMENT 0/ SUBSCRIPTIONS to the LOAN, fay Me h Certificates or Note", issued hy the ret
pea.ve States ,n the federal Loan-Offices, from ,he firft of OSober, ,730, to the 30 ,b of September,
1 79 1 » agreeably to the sift pafjed the qtb of jiitpiJ}, 1790.
Amountaffum- . ri SSf bribed beyond EJt J> at{dammn '\
ed by tbe a£l. §
STATES. ajfumed. "famed. State.
Dollars. Dollars. Cts. Dollars. Cts. Dollars. Cts. Dollars. Cts.
V.HampfWj 300.000 242,501.25 57,498.75 100,000 !(a)
Ifland 8 4 % f 7 «' 'Mk* f j(*>
=o„„ea,„, ~600:000 , 44 , 668 ., 9
Slew-Yoik 1,200,ooo! 1,028,238. 75 171,761.25 79 (a)
WJerfey 800,000 599,703-56 200,296.44
Pennsylvania 2,200,000 675,101.331,524,898.67 500,000 L
Maryland l°°' 000 53 ' 3 ° 5 " 84 16 5 n o ne ° U
8o0 ' 000 2 99,22 5 . 40| 500,774. 60 430.000 (c)
Georgia
2 ',500,00P 18,328,186. 2114,427,665. 61 1,255,851. 82.8,331,028. 32
NOTES.
nunicatior.s" mSmarked ' n Co ' L " nn of remaining debts are inserted upon recent official com
oltheHT!!refnrnr!t<:dr(,s) Up ° n ° fficial ftatel "ents some time since received, and reported
111 Thof, e P, re< f" ta ''«' on thc 9th of January, 1790, adding interest for the subsequent period.
Ulthentic and accnr , tV f ° Unded ° n mal ln/orm ation, but such as is deemed substantially
een cancelled in / r' e r' mate Rhodc - Illand deludes a sum not ascertained, which ha,
aifd rrc of lormer laws of the state, enjoining the creditors to bring in their
la ni the l r, P^ :nt -; n paper-money, but has been revived by a late law of the State, di
smount P t0 be l,qU,<,ated aCCOrding :o 3 Certain fca,e ' and f'»m the original
•he I^ Houft of onnded on 3 "P° rt of a committee of the eleventh November, ,79,. to
■nation. Virginia, compared with a former return to the Treasury and other infor
10th', ij)*! marked is founded u P on a statement of the Comptroller of North-Carolina, of May
compaVeTwi'th'other'informatfon? ' ftatCment ° f the Trcafur e r of Geor £ !a of < he 3°th of April,
iu7a"verJne\r U the S truT. <led r ° Und nUmbers are not raeant t0 be understood as precisely accur ate
VJU T R l^c o /vn 35 WC " 35 the d ° mefl!c debt of ,he S ' at « included.
Treasury Department, January 23d, 1792.
— mmmt - ALEXANDER HAMILTON, Secretary of the Treasury.
W A vlv,, 1 ? ;rt^' a 3 0UR - PR.nted B y
NEYMAN BOOK-BINDER rwiTriQ
'0 go to Lancajltr. Enquire of Fran cts attJ, LDSand SWAI NE,
D a ;i„„ , • . J .. A ... rIdn ClS AT THIIR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIGH-STRIET.
y> punier, As, n6 } High-Street. ma* sixth-stbxet,
PHILADELPHIA.