Vol. I.
£ From ' Letters (jufl pubtifijed) address d
to the Yeomanry of the United States,"
containing Observations on the dangerous
tendency of ejlabl'jhlng national manufac
tories, exclujively privileged, and with
large capitals."]
j Continued from our lafl,]
HOLLAND affords a ft liking con'raft
in favor of a free commerce. The territory
of that republic, not railing a fufficiency
of wheat for their own consumption, have
1 y 'he means of a free commerce, not only
ft fured a full supply for t'nemftlves, but
frequently for their neighbors During the
late c mniotions in Finnce, the distress of
ihe people of Paris in 1789, was reliveed
by corn, supplied by Meflrs. Hope, of
A mfterdam, to the amount of one million
cf F: cr.ch livres *
Formerly an immense commerce was
carried 011 in the kingdom of Siam.
Uiilorian- attell, that in the sixteenth
century, above a thousand veflels frequent
ed its p. rts annually. But the king,
tempted v.-ith so much richcs endeavou;ed
lo er.grofs all the commerce cf his country,
by which means he annihilated, fucceflive
]y, mines, manufactures, and even agricul
ture.
About the year 1 750, Sir Samuel Pen
nant, Sir James Lowther, Admiral Ver
non, ai.d a number of other gentlemen in
.England,, wet e incorporated into a Fi'l.ing
Company, under the name of the Sociely
of the Free British Fiflierv, with a capi
tal of five hundred thousand peiunds fieri
the objedl was, the whit' herring fifhery,
-which was represented to be of so much im
portance, that several adts of Parliament
Wei e procured, granting partial privileges
Er.d bounties to this wealthy company : It
received a bounty from government of
thirty {billings the ton for all the vessels
engaged in the fifbery ; a bounty of two
Ihil'ings and eight pence on every bairel
of fi!l exported ; the delivery of both
Britifll and foreign fait duty free : besides
all these encouragements, the fubferibers,
for every £\ico paid into the stock of
the focietv, were en itlcd to three pounds
a year to be paid by the receiver-gencral
< f the cu(lom8, in equal half yearly pay
ments. Besides this great company, the
Teluience of whose governor and directors
was to be in London, it was declared to
be lawful to erect different Fishing Cham
bers in all the out ports of the kingdom,
provided a sum not lefsthan ten thousand
pounds was lubferibed into the capital of
each, to be managed at its own risk, and
for its own profit and loss. The fame an
nuity and the fame encouragements of all
kinds, were given to the trade of those in
fcrior chambers as lo that of the great
company. The fubfeription of the great
company was soon filled up and several
different fifhing chambets were eredted in
the different out por'sof the kingdom. In
spite of all these encouragements, almost
all those duTetent companies both great
and small, loft either the whole, or the
greater pait of their capital ; scarce a vef
tige now remains of any of them, and the
white hening fifliery is now entirely, or
almost entirely, carried on ly private ad
•venturers. Previous to the final ruin of
the great company, admiral Vernon, as
one of the diredtor*, waited in person on a
Mr. Martin, an old fifherman at Yarmouth,
who, by his attention to the herring fifhe
ry, had amassed a considerable for line, to
enquire of him, by what means, he, a pri
vate citizen, had been fuccefsful in the
fifhery, whilst a wealthy company, having
an immense capital, inverted in the bufi
litis, and enjoying the particular patron
age and bounty of government, were go
ing to deftrudtion, The old man inform
ed Vernon and the gentlemen who attended
on the occalion, That he could give them
no encouragement ; that inevitable de.
ftrudtion would be the fate of the compa
ny ; that their ftftiing bwfTes, for the con
* A'cciai's Aduarrjirutiou, p. 23 1.
By P. FRENEAU: Publjhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars ptr annum.
SATURDAY, September 22, 1792.
»/• uiv j iiou guuv, ww a
great expence, were built on a wrong con
ftrudtion ; that their agents had purchased
improper twine for their seines, and that
the mafhesofthe nets were too large for
the lifiiery ; but that the principal cause
of their misfortunes, and of his fuccefe,
was owing to the company employing un
interested agents, whiitt he personally at
tended to a:i occupation, on the success of
which, he and his family depended fjr
bread.
The tx ravagant ambition of Louis
XIV, not only made him anxious to be
come the arbiter of Lurope by carrying
lire ind deftrudtion into the territories of
his peaceful neighbours ; but also by in
terfering in and regulating all the actions
of his own fubjedts, he wished that they
fhoull regard h s absolute will as the alone
objedt of contemplation and attention. He
inlli, u ted manufadtures, encouraged com
merce, and undertook public work?, and
yet his arbitrary government tendered
those very eft blifliments ufelcfs. The ve
ry steps he took to render the agricultural
interest fubfervicnt to his projects of ma
II ufailures, occasioned the ruin and de
ftrudtion of hoth. Notwithstanding the
numerous triumphal arches an 1 statues
erected ir. France to the memory of Louis
XIV, and the adulation of his priests, his
mistresses. and of prostitute court writers,
it is certain, that his fvftem of policy tend
ed to deftroythe agriculture of his king
lorn Independent gentlemen, living on
iheir own estates, became ruined—the
country was deserted for places at court
or in the army, and the cultivation of the
land was left to a poor tenantry. Smollet,
in his travels through France, fays—"ln
Burgundy I law a peasant ploughing the
ground with a jack ass, a lean cow, and he
joal, yoked together. The peasants of
France are so wretchedly poor, and so
much oppressed by their landlords, that
they cannot afford to inclose their grounds,
or give a proper respite to their lands, or to
stock their farms with a fufficietit number
of black cattle, to produce the neceftary
manure, without which agriculture enn ne
ver be carrie !on to any degree of perfection
The peasants in the south of France are
poorly clad, >nd look a3 if they were half
I starved, diminutive, swarthy and meagre,
a id yet the common people, who travel,
live luxutioufly on the 10a.:."
The kingdom of France, although en
j -yinga good foil and a fine climate, yet
owing to the poverty and wretchedness of
the people (previous to the late glorious
revolution) out of one hundred and thirty
millions of acres which that country con
tains, only fix millions were thought to
be under a full cultivation ; the remainder
under tillage, affording little mo<e than
subsistence to a miserable tenantry.
The British na ion at present appear
fiourifhing; but the government having
adopted the oppressive fyftemof interfering
111 the occupations of its cit zen 3, that fine
country must fall a faCrifice to such unjust
principles. Some time since the Minister
formed thedefign of eredtmg a Board to
ivatch over the interests of trade. The
project was carried into execution, but
trade so far from increasing, declined the
moment that these counlellors of commerce
began to give her lessons : of this authen
tic proofs were produced, and it was abo
liflied in 1782. Mr. Gibbons, the Eng
lish Tacitus, was a member of this institu
tion. A few years since some farmers in ;
Yorkshire were impiifoned and fined to
the amount of several thousand pounds, for
cultivating tobacco, contrary to an ast of
Parliament. The wool bill, enadted into .
a law in 1787,15 a remarkable inliance of
a violation of the liberty and property of
the English farmer. The whole advan
tage of this monopoly centers in the
wealthy principals engaged in ",he woolen
manufacture, whilst the labouring nianti
fae .urers can scarce earn bread r.bove the
point of starving, and whilst they and their '
.families are daily falling on the patifhes
i for support: The tyranny and oppression
of the law does little credit to the British
government. The objed of it is to pre
vent the exportation of wool to France,
where the farmer could procure twenty
per cent, more for it than in England. By
such arbitrary and unjust reftrietions and
regulations j by excise laws ; by taxes and
impohtions of various kinds, the yeoman
ry ind independent country gentlemen of 3
or T „ol. pei ann. are aimofi annihilated.
I tie gloomy eye of the Financier, rolling
with baneful vigilance in search of new
wa y ß and means, lets neither the crops,nor
the domeftiecomforts of the farmer escape.
Agriculture will not long survive such
n.eafures ; or if it (hould exist, it will be
t.ie invidious fpe£tacle of great lords, and
their devouring Rewards on one hand, and
-i m;ferab!e dependant peasantry on the
other.
When Colbert demanded of an old ex
perieiiced merchant what steps his mailer
(hould take to encourage commerce, the
answer wa9 —Let us alone. The citizens
of the United States engaged in agricul
ture. in manufactures, in mechanics, and
even in the Cod-Fijhery, may with jullice
and propriety give a limilar answer to Con
gress.
The following is inserted (by desire)
from the Providence (Rhode Island)
Gazette of the sth instant.
WEDNESDAY last the anniversary
Commencement of Rhode-Island College
was celebrated in this town.
The proceflion, at half past ten o'clock,
moved from College Hall, in the usual or
der, to the Baptist. meeting-house, where,
after an introductory prayer by the Rev.
St llmari, the following exercises were
performed, viz
1. Salutatory Oration, in latin, and an
F.nglifh Oration on the French revolution,
by Bddad Barney.
z. An Oration on the advantages of
good government, by Paraclete Tew.
3. A Greek DifTertation on the efie&a
of luxury, by Richard Stitcs.
4 An Oration on the rife and progress
of astronomy, by William IV. Fotwcll
5. A Dispute on thejuftice and policy
of emancipating slaves in America, by
William V. King, Eli Smith, and Peter 0.
Alden.
6. An Oration on the improvement of
the mind, by Ebenezer Withington.
7. An Orationin French on air-balloons,
! y David Leonard
i. A Diflertation on prosecuting the
war with the Indians, by Ei'jah ° Dix ,
Green.
9An Oration on the theatre,by Thomas ,
Cranjion Hazard.
i his concluded the exercises of the fore
noon.
The proceflion then proceeded to th? ;
Chancellor's house. And at three o'clock ,
they returned to the meeting-house.
In the afternoon the following exercises 1
were performed :
1. An Oration recommending Rhode- j
Island College to the patronage of the ]
Hate, by Jahaziah Shaw. I
2. An Oration on the wealth of nati- t
ons, by Nathaniel Hazard.
3. An Oration on the eflablifhment of |
foci, ties in America, by George Lamed.
The'degree of Bachelor in the Arts
was then conferreo on the following young
gentlemen, viz.
Piter Oliver Alden, Bildad Barney, Tho
mas Murray CI. rk, William Watts Folwell,
Eliji b Dix Green, Thomas Cranjion Haz
ard, Ben] Hazard, Nath.Hazard, Wm V.
King, George Lamed, David Leonard,
George Jeffrey Patten, Jahaziah Shaw, EH
Smith, Richard Stitcs, Paraclete Tew, and
Ebenezer Withington. \
Mr Philander Shaw, A. B. ofHar- <
vard, was admitted adeitndem. t
And the degree of Master in the Arts, t
was donferred on the following gentlemen, <
Alumni of this college, viz.
Numb. 94.
i Rev. Macaiah Porter, Dr. Philip Pad
l (Ueford, Jamer F enner, Esq. Dr. Jeremiah
. Brotvn Howell, Mr. John Clark Nightin
, gale., Mr. Nicholas Power, jun. Mr Paul
Draper, and Mr. Edward Richmond.
Rev. John Crane, A. B. of Harvard,
I was admitted to the degree of Mailer in
I the Arts.
Mr. Leonard P/hite, A. M. of Harvard,
was admitted adeundem.
James Brown, Esq. A. M. of Harvard,
was admitted ad eitndevi•
The honorary degree of Mafler of A*-;s
was conferred on the following gentle
men viz Mr. John Francis, Rev JJhua
Crojby of Greenwich, in the conn y of
Hampshire, Maflachufetts : Rev. Thomas
Dan/comb, of Coate, Oxfordshire, in Eng
land : Rev, John Fawcett, of Hebden
b ridge, Yorkshire, in England: Rev.
Benjamin Francis, of Horfley, Gioncetler
fhire, in England : Rev Richard Furmcui,
of Charleston, South Carolina.
Th. degree of l)o£tor of Divinity wa«
conferred on the Rev, John Rippon, of
London ; Rev. John Ryland, jun of Eng
-1 nd, and Rev. Benjamin Fojler, of New-
York.
The degree of Doctor of Laws was con
rerred on the Rev. Perez Fobes, of Rayn •
ham, Mr. Benjamin Weft, of Providence,
and the Hon Alexander Hamilton, Secre
tary of theTr. afury of the United States.
A charge was then given to the Gradu
ates, by the Hon. David Howeli., Esq.
who officiated as Prcfident for the day.
Then followed the Valedi&ions, and an
Oration on the pleasures of the imagina
tion, by Thomas Murray Clark.
A Prayer by the Rev Dr. Slillman con
cluded the exercises.
The Governor's company of light in
fantry, in a new and elegant uniform, com
manded by Col. Whipple, performed the
military duties of the day, and made a very
soldier like and handsome appearance.
The exercises of the day were enriched
by an excellent band of music, procured
at the expence of the graduates.
The young gentiemen performed their
parts in fnch manner as reflected great ho
nor on themselves, as well as those who
have had the care of their inftrudtion ; <.nd
son which we anticipate their future
ufefulnefc.
A large and brilliant afTembly, particu
larly of the ladi js, exhibited in a linking
manner the opinion our citizens entertain
of the importance of education.
At a meeting of the Coiporation of the
College cn Thursday last, the Rev Jona
than MaXcY, Pallor of the Baptiil.
Church in this town, and Profeffor i x Di
vinity in the College, was elected President
of the College pro tempore * —and the Hon*
Benjamin Bourne, Efq .was el.&ed a
Fruliee of the College.
* In the evening of the fame day, the
Students, to announce their joy on so hap
py an event, very brilliantly illuminated
the College. From the acknowledged a
bilities of this reverend gentleman, his
great literary acquirements, and from the
facility with winch he commuiiicat-s his
knowledge, the body which appointed
him, as well as the people at large, flatter
themselves that he will be eminently ufeful
at the head of the R.hode Ifiand Univer
sity.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS. '
PARIS, July 21.
Letter fcom the King of France, on
the publication of the Declaratiou
of the Duke of Brtinfwiek.
" Avgujl 3, Sfth year of Liberty.
" Mr. President,
" FOR fevcral days pad a paper has
been circulated, entitled; The Declaration
of the reigning Duke of Brunfwick-Lunen
burg, commander of the combined armies of
their MajeJlies the Emperor, and the King
of Prussia, addrejfrd to the inhabitants of
France —This paper exhibits nothing thatfin be cnfuk e3 as a p-noF of Its actl.en
ticity It has not been tnnfinitt'rd by any
of my ministers at the fcver.-d con-ts oi
Germany near our fron ie s The publi
cation cf it.nevfrthßefs feeins to rre to re
rpure a new declaration of my fentiipents
mid my principles.
" Fiance i* menaced by a rarest combi
nation offerees. Calumny will not ea! ■!*
believe the sorrows T feel in considering
the difler.tions that exill among us, and the
cvi's fathering round us ; but thoie ;v!<n
knov/ of what vilne in it- cyei arc the
Moo;! and t'-e famine of the people, wi'i
gi»e credit to my nnealinefe ?nd my grie ; .
" J brought with me pacific sentiments
to the throne, bccaufe peace, the l.rft blef
sing of notions, is the tirfl <!-.»ty of king:'-
Mv former mini Ken know what e.lor.c I
liave mad ?to avoid war. I f.-lt how ne
rrfLry was peace : it alone could enlijfi ten
the nation on the new form of her govern
ment ; it . ' ir.c, by sparing the fuffe'riugs
of the people, made me support the cha
fafier 1 undertook in this revolution. Tint
I yielded to the Unanimous opinion o< try
council, to the wi(h manifeKed !>v a great
par: of the nation, and fevera! tunes cx
preffed l y the Nat onal A !Fcmb:y.
" When war was declared 1 negle&ed
none of the treatis of tiffining i s fuerefs,
fifty minifler! r< reived or.iers to cone r'
meafares with the committer* of the Na
tional Afienably, and wr.li the grneraia
If the event has rot yet a>:Hvtred the hopes
of the nation, ought we not to lay the
blame on our inte'line divilions. the pro
{••refs of the spirit of parti. ?, and above ail
on the ftatc of c::r cr.v.ies, which ■ -anted
to be more pradtifed i theufe of arms he
fore being led to combat. But the nation
shall fee my efforts increaie <vith those of
the holiiie powers; I G all take, in concert
with the National Assembly, all means to
turn the evils infeparab'efrom to the
advantage of her liberty and her glory.
I have accepted the confutation ; the
majority of the nation def'red it ; I few
that the nation con(]dered it as the foun
dation of her happir.efs, and her happaieT.,
is the folc ohjeft of my life.
" From that moment, ] irr.pofed it as a
law upon myfelf.to be faithful to the Ccn
ftitutiqn , and I gave oiders to my nrnif
ters to make it the rule of their conduct.
I v.ifi; not to fubllitti emy knowledge for
tsm rience, nor my o j nton for my oath.
It \v,is my duty to labour for the good
of my people ; 1 have ciilcharged this du
ty ; a:. J to have done so is enough to fa
tisfv the conscience of an honed man. Ne
verfhali I be fecr. compounding the glory or
tiie intc: fts of the i a'.ion ; receiving the
law from foreigners oi from a patiy : It
is to the nation that I owe myfeif; lam
one and the fan. c with her; no intcreft (hall
separate iiie Irom her ; frie alone fh.ll be
l.llenedto; 1 will maintain the national
independence v. iih my lull breath l'er
foii.il dangers compared with public dan
g rs, are nothing. Ah! what arc peiion-
II dangers to a king from whom it at
tempted to ahiiiote the love of the people ?
There lies the real wound ot my he..rt —
The people, pethaps, will one clay know
h.iw dear to me is their happincls hovs
much it has always been my iule intercfl,
my firll wish. llow many grief? might
betfTaced by the ilighteli masks of its re
turn
(Signed) LOUIS.
(U.iderlignd) IIGOT St. CROIX."
July 23. The following art further par
ticulars of the outrages of the Pariiian I.lob
011 the memorable 20th cf June I ast, on ac
count «.i the king having ref'ufed to fanCtioi
the decree of the National Aifenibly againfl
the non-juring clergy, and fur eilablii'lring a
camp of 20,<X0 men to be ftanoaed round
Paris. A few moments before the mob
had filled the palace, a young chafleur, on
ly 18 years o.d, found means to get into the
king's apartment, where, pale and breath
lets, he fell 011 his knees before his majelly,
and with difficulty articulated the follow
ing words : " Sire, a horrible plot is form
ed againit your life. 1 entreat on my knees
that your fvlajefty would give l.ie leave to
remain by your tide. The king, deeply af
fected at his generous conduit, granted his
and Legged of him to be compo
sed.
The doors were then burlt open : a furi
oui 1110b in,heel in and croudeci around the
liioiia. cii, defended by tour national guards
only. An internal wretch, armed with a
] .ice, and the tire of rage burning in liis
eves, darted towards the king with a mur
c.erous intention. The young chafl'eur
1 ulhes on the lnonfterj turns t!ie menacing
weapon, which (lightly wounded an officer
oi'tne national guards, who thought him
teif happv to info ionj; as hi* king was
fate.
Sfvffral fur'e*, tu t'.e of wometv
breathed death and deftruftion—one «t
them armed with a poign.ard, ran about flic
qutffil's aoartmeut, foaming in the nicntb.
her eyes gHftening with rage, ai»d her ha':
bridled up as if electrified, h'b" li-.j; out
these words—"Where is i!ie that 1 111:17
pierce her through the heart ?" An officer
coolly replied, " wretch, do 7011 'oc fee
her, there (he (bands."
At the fight of the qtieT, this fury ~*.rn
became a woman. Her voice, as it "■e'v
bv magic, <v weak, lier hand fhrok as :f
(he were paralyzed, and die mechanically
crie'l nut ''Lu.w jive the qreen !" and
mixed •••Uh " croud, covering her
face with boih her pint's.
About e ht or nine hundred o r the moa
attempted to force their way into the a
p >rnnent of ]V r ar!amf\ rhe kilo's d. a"'iter.
" What do van want ?" fays the "ret.ad'er
on c'ary—" We want to go in I 1 * —" Yci
(hall rot !"'—" V/e will ' Hark ye."
fays the foHier, " I am as good am! honed
■ citizen as an" of yon ; hilt I will obev
11"- orders. If you can prevail oil the cor
poral to relieve ;i:e, ppr!;ar>s von r v - ■' then
.irfs ; but M hiie lam on Hut the :l who
!.: !! attempt to go, (ball have niv bayonet
through ha body. Von m.-v kill me ; but
I 1■• 11 <!> niv duty, and kill four of you."'
Tae mob retreated, praising the soldier
for having done his diuv.
An attempt was made to separate Mi
lame i'.liv ibeth from her brother : but (he
never quitted the f art of his coat which
ihc bedewed w'.th her tears, and it wi'l
Icarcelv be eredired, that the surrounding
moijflers ridiculed and insulted her feel
ings.
Santejre, the brewer and commander in
chief of the mob, told the queen, that the
was much to blame for imagining that the
peo; le of Pari: had not the liaeerell love of
1 i-r. He obfe. ved, that the king was fi
ther of all 'lie people, who at that inrtant,
[urraa ded a glorious progeny. ! and that
no harm Should happen to her majesty !—
rhe queen anftvered, " I know I am in no
tlartger while I a::i protected by thefe-brave
men," pointing to some national guards
near her : "At the fame tjffie, I appreci
ate, as I ought, tiie merit of your aifm an
ces."
Madame Elizabeth de France, when the
mob rr.fh d into the palace, endeavoured,
but in vain, to prevail on the kit:'; not to
appear. She than opened the door her
,'eif, and placing herfeli before the mo
narch, said to the snob, ' Behold your
king, if you have evil intentions agaiuft
him, you m: ;l get rid of me before you can
reach him !"
The battalion des fils de St. Thcma.s
formed, during the whole time, a barrier
round 1 r queen, and cool aniidfc the ho% ♦
inra of thocfands of human tigers, only at
tended to their duty. The atieen, i.i rhe
ir.orr.ir.g had said to Madame, " Whathave
i to fear ? That they (hould kill me ? ic
they hare rc dived upon it, bette: to-day
than to-morrow."
It was leveif o'clock, when Rl. Pethion,
I'Mayor of Paris) uppearcd before the king.
He, helitaliiig and confufed, attempted to
vindicate the cor.dust of the municipality.
He said, that had i_ not been for the pre
caution taken by that body, It was probable
1 hat tat... events might nave tai.en piace 5
'■Not," fays he, ■' the.; year perfo;: \yasin
■ you fhal. aa.vays be re! jeced.' —
Do you cali that," fays the king, " (hew
ing me refpeft, v. hen people appear in arms
beiore rue, after having burfl ooen tile
door- of my r.,:art'iier.ts ; The events of
tliis day are a feandal to all the world. You
lhali be aufwerable for the tranquility of
Paris."
" I know," fays Pethion, " the full ex
tent oi' my duty."—The king said, " I beg
you y.ill withdraw." The mayor obeyed.
Aug. 1. —Tiie President informed the afiem
bly ti...t he had received a packet bv the poll
containing the declaration i.Tuedin the name of
the Duke of 3»unfwick.
In consequence cf a report from the commit
on-. of general ii.lpeSion founded upon the con
duct and threats cl the enemy, in regard to the
national jaiaids, :ho alfemblv palled a decree,
by which it is declared, " That if the laws cf
war are not (hictly oblerved in regard to all
Frenchmen taken w:th arms in their hands, all
the oiliceis belonging to the enemy, who may
be made pri'.oners, f.iall experience a fim.lar
treatment, whatever may be their rank, titles, or
diilintii-ns; but that the foldierv notwithlland
ing continue to be treated as before."
The aiembly roie and voted this decree by
an unanimous acclamation."
The ad'embly palled a decree by which all
die inhabitants of France, deflitute cf fire-arms,
are henceforth to be armed with pikes, Sruilar
to thole recommended by matlhal 3a:;-,
The patiiotic Pethion appeared at the bar,
and demanded " that the king be declared to
have forfeited his crown, and that .. minittry
te .letted, into whole hands the rein- of go
vernment lhali be entruilcd unul a national con
vention lhali have adopted definitive mcalures."
This demand was applauded, and lefetred to
the coninuuee extraordinary.
\ tiierday the national alfembly direfled an
address to t e national guards of Paris, and the
guards from the several drpariments of the king
dom, ti.at have come to 1-aiis in oider to join
the ai my on the frontiers. 11 is as follows :
" rhe reprefentativctof the people, whose
lively iolicitude is watching unceasingly overall
parts of the kingtta**, think it their duty in
form you tbemfelves of the dangers that threat
en you. The enemies of ronditutioft re
double their efforts to vour force by di
vid no; if, 'tis >n the name of liberty vb'.ch
you ndore ; it is in the name of the: lav,*, to
which von have sworn to be faithful, that they
have the audacity to sow so fatal diffentions a
m'ong you. Artfully perverting every circum
fiance, reviving every prejudice, inflaming every
mind, they drive from diilri6t to di'lnft, from
division, tolead yo'.i on to a&ual crimes, and
make von turn vour arms agamft one another,
They v/ant to introduce among you anarchy anH
civil difcoro, those terrible precurfor3of despo
tism ; they wish to deliver you, -without defencc
to the powers your liberty, your
independence ?.nd vour happinf is.
" Citizen soldiers, marl; the precipire ovei
which they wish you to fall. The reprefenta
ives o the nation have fliewn it to you ; they
have no more fears on your account. Yoar
patriotism, your fidelity, the intereti of your
country and your own—all allure them; 'h?.t ??-
prized of the perfidious plots iigaind your fafety
no force will be able.to vnnquifh you, becauf
no fedrjon will be able to dii unite yon."
In the fitting os-he n?tional afTemblv on Thtirf
day the lollcv.ir:? decree moved by M.
Gandef. was uranimoufly palled.
1. <k Every officer or soldier of the enemies
armies, who cr siting to r?nge tliemfelves under
ihe banners cf liber?", (hall appear ;:t a miliary
nod, or before one o! the conlntuted authorities,
or a Fre ch citizen, (hall be received with frater
nal a'Te&iori ; fliall be prefentedas a sign of his
adoption}, with a cockade of three colours ; fliall
enjoy a pennon for life cf one hundred hvres,
of which one ouarter fliall be always in advance
and diall be admitted to take the civic oath.—
The prnfion upon their decease, fli3ll be con
tinued to their widows."
2. " Those who would not contrail a milita
ry engagement, (hall not be forced to t ; those
who chufe it, j!ia! 1 be admitted to what army
they pleaTe, and fliall receive the ordinary fee
upon enliding.
3. Li( ■ s (hall he formed of foreigners in the
fcrvice of France, and the penfionsef those who
die -ftiall be continued to the furvivcrs, till ihe
ratter (hall have annuities of jcohvrcs each.
4. "The widows of such military pcrtons
(h?:l receive the annual penficn of 100 livres, but
will net {hare the benefits of the tontine,
5. 44 Those who do not take a military en
casement, Mii.il retire into the interior of the
kingdom ; those who {hall fervc will have the
fame reward for brilliant actions as French citi
zens.
6. lt I f France ( fhall ever be drawn into a war
with a free nation, cxerdfing its own fovcreign
ty, military perfors cf that nation are not to
have the advantages of the present decree."
The duke of Jjrunlwick was expe£led to
march on or before the id indant, and is proba
bly now on the fiontiers of -'ranee.
PA. 113, Saturday Noon.
c ' You will fee by the proceedings of the as
sembly, which I inclose you, that M. Petliion,
and the forty t .;I; t diftritls of Paris, have peti
tioned the affcmbly >0 declare that the kin? has
forfeited 'he crown ; this petition was looked for,
and was treated as a matter cf course. Con
ceive what mu(l be the date cf a country, where
a petition to dethrone the king, makes no unu
sual imprcifron on the public mind, but which
calmly, curfonly referred to a committee, and
appointed to be the order of the day tor a h.tars
lining; and all this too while 100,000 of the
vile ft slaves in the universe are ready, at the nod
of the tyrants in Europe, to overwhelm their
country. The French mud either be the bra
ved cr the mod inconlidera e race of men, for
nothing but blind courage could induce them,
in such a ciilis, to agitate qeeihons that aggra
vate their danger by dividing their force. The
king, they fay, is a traitor. Be it io—The ar
mies of France are devoted to him, and yet the
armies arc not traitorous. — The executive pow
er has been tardy and flack in pioviding fci the
drength of the kingdom, but let them if they
dare, an uncontlitutional order to any gene
ral ! The hearts of the army would raise againil
the shadow of treachery.
The lection of Mauconfcile have made a de
cree, by which they declare, that they no longer
recognize Louis XVI. as the king of the
French.
Aug. 3. t£ In the Aflembly, this morning
a letter was read from the CommifHoners
appointed to infpeft the preparations for
the camp at Soiflbns. lt dated that the
preparations had not been forwarded with
all the dispatch poflible, but that there did
r.ot appear to have been any willful negle£l
on the part of the Minuter at war. Com
plaint* had been made of pounded glass
malicioudy mixed in the bread intended for
the troops. This was the eiFe«Tc of accident.
The bread was prepared in an old church.
Some of theglafs had fallen from the win
dows into the Hour, and been worked up
with it.
u Accounts were received on authority
which we can neither implicitly believe nor
entirely disregard; that the spirit of mutiny,
as well as desertion, has broke oat among
the Anftrian troops on the Flanders fron
tier ; that it requires all the vigilance of
their officers to make the one part of them
keep guard over the other ; that many de
serters have come in ffom them with
wounds which they fay they received in a
mutiny, and that the greater part of their
companions wait only so.* an opportunity
to follow them.
" Th; authenticity or the Cuke ofßrilnr.
wick's declaration is no longer questioned;
but it has not produced the union which all
rational men confuler as our only means of
defence. On the contrary, the two partiei
are as e~ r -;er n reviling and calumniating
each other as iftSffy had no common enemy.
To their aili.-ity in this respect. may, I pre
sume, be attributed th; idea of a letter
which the jacobins affirm to have been
wiiiten by the l:ing to the Duke of Brunf
wic!--, ir . him to i'aris, and which the?
Feuillants alfert is u forgery by the Jaco
bins intended to be produced at some con
venient opportunity, to delude the peo
ple, Ito serve as a pretext for seizing
the who!: executive power into their own
hands. It is our good fortune that thtfa
plots, if they have any foundation in truth,
are too much talked of to succeed.
An acccjnt :s received from Marseilles
of a confpiraeytomaflacre the Municipality
and leading members cf the Constitutional
Club. — M. Bayer the leader i:i this plot,
was difcovred by one of his servants the
night on which it was to have been carried
into execution. He was confronted with
his accuser and _ cor.felTed his intention.
The populace insisted on his instant execu
tion. The Magistrates endeavoured to ap
pease them, and had him conveyed to pri-
I'on. Next day, however, h mob broke
into the p-iibn, took out oyer with three
of'lis accomplices, and hanged them on a
lamp poll.
Stpck'iclm, July 5. The remains of All
- the Swedilh regicide, are expo
sed i 1 ddleretit par' son gibbets. There
was lately found in the hand that (hot the
king, a verse in the Swedilh language to
this C<7e ' B!cf. be this hzndthat wrought its
cc::: irv'j Kfl/, I —His head had a few daysbe
fore been encircled with a crown.
Leyden, July 7. We have frequently
heard it aiTerted that the war bctweeft
'hv.ac ■ arsd the combined powers is to be
iefenfive 0:1 either fide. Ever llnce the
French king's acceptation of the conftitu
:io;>, it is certain that the court of Vienna
sr.ly looked to defenfive measures. What
terns to conirm this is the prohibiting the
.Yench emigrants from forming themselves
into distinct armed bodies, and the refufnl
as the petitions fron pet Tons at Oftend,
Triefle, and Zeng, who had requested let
ters of marque to cruise against the French
trade. The French, in their turn, fecm
equally averse to committing hoftiliries 3t
;ee. Without doubt, it is a barbarous cuf*
torn to capture at sea the property of indi
viduals, which on land is held sacred ever*
in the 111'-lit of hostilities. It rasy be rc
collecie 1 that the French Nations! Allan
bly directed the executive to negotiate wlt!i
other powers for the abolition of privateer
ing, or ra her lice n fed piracy 0.1 the high
fear, t practice on'y wprthy of the dark a
ge 3 cf man, but the curse ar.d di grace of
enlightened Europe. [_Leyi. Gaz.J
LONDON. Augult 7.
The Declaration of the Duke ofßrunf
wic'.t is said to he a composition entirely
his own, and contrary to the opinion of
i'lince Koherdohe, the General of the Im
perial troops. The Duke was perhaps a
fr.dd th..th? fnoiild not meet with oppefi
tion enough in France to afford an oppor
tunity lor a 1 oil difolay of his military iki.'!,
and propefed a declaration to provoke
the .vhole nation to unite against him.
TheSubfciiption towards thefuccour of
the people of Poland is likely to be taken
up in a ay unprecedented in the history
ot England. >;ot merely Corporations,
public Bodies and Clubs—but the ladies
have diftinguiihed themselves in a cause so
noble, and some ot our rnoft exalted
men emulate the Dutchefs of Marlborough
in the cause of Mari 1 Theresa.
1 he Ce.,rt of Vienna is (aid to have in
sisted on tue difr.iiffion of Calonne from the
councils cl the l'r< ncli Frinces, on account
of the general deteftatioa ill which he is
held in France.
Count Florida Blanca, the late minifterof
Spain, who Imce his dismission had lived
retired at £llia, in i.iercia, is now a pri—
:or.er in the cafli-e of Panipeluna. His fuc
cedcr Count d' Aranda refilled to sign the
order for apprehending him, but the king
insisted that it (hould be executed. He i»
accused o'. depredation,of squandering pub
lic money, and illegally promoting his rela
tions and creatures.
ith lincere grief we have to announce
to the many friends and admirers of Lieu
tenant General Burgoyne, that he was ta.
kenfuddeuly ill at the house of Mr. Fox,
on Saturday morning. He went to bed
in perfect health, after spending the day
cheerfully, and died at four in the morning.
Yesterday morning at 7 o'clock, died,
in Lower Grofvenor-ltreer, in the 61ft
year ol .lis age, the Right Hon, Frederick
North, Karl ot Gilford, Lord North, of the
molt noble order of the garter, Lord Wai
den and Admiral of the Cinque Ports, Go
vernor of Dover Caii le, Lord Lieut, and
Cuttos Rotuiorum, ofthe county of Som
erset, Recorder of Glouceller, and T-aun
iiou, an elder brother ofthe Trinity House,
Prciident ut the Foundling Kofpital, and of
the aiiyium, and governor ot the Turkey
company.Augujl 9. The Ambaffailar from tneTT
r.ited Mates ot' America to the Britiih Com-:
arrived on Friday night, with a numerous
suite, and has take:' up his reiidence at the
Royal Hotel, St. James's.
Two ftanciards belonging" io Tippo*
Sultan's army, arid taken by Lord Corn
•wa His before the walls of Seringnpetam,
have been sent home by his Lordlbip as a
present to Lord Pembroke.
The Anftrians and Priiffians rave, it'"
f;:id, finally determined to form iimicfi?:;
arrangements for advancing to Paris, wliicu
they are refo.ro to capture on or ueiOi j
the 23d of October next.
Letters received by yesterday's Flander
mml, acquaint us with news of the Run am
having began hostilities against the Frencii.
Two French (hips, from Marseilles. have
Been taken ofFSirigo :n the Mediterranean,
byliart of a li.nadr<n said to conl.lf <- ■
fai! of cruizers, under the command of T.-.a
jor Lambro, under Ruffian colours. Tin
prizes were or let ed.to the Braccia deM.:i
11a, inhabited by pirate". One of the j-'rcncl
veifets was retaken in the nignt, ey tnt
French failcr ?, ana got fafe into Csnd;a.
On the 31ft of inly the following precin
mation, so • the nr - ':uc<s:.nee of public 1 ran
quility, was publiihed by order of the kin;
of France. >.
" The king cr.rno? fee. without profou' <
indignation, the acts of violence by wbicr
has been diJhirbed in the capital, individu
al liberty outraged, the fafety of pen on:
and property e —In"?, red. H'.s Mcscft;
would think himfelfthe accomplice of ex
cedes, if he filtered :'ier.i in liier.ee to he
committed before his eyes, p. id the biooc
of Frenchman to be fprin'tied. to use a
strong rv-ircflirn. on the wails of hi.' pa
lace, or the gales of the rational afifi r.'-:y.
If armed men are capable of forgetting
that there '■•.if.- laws, the guardians ant
proteiiors of i.bsrty and lives of citizen
his Majesty will never forget that he ; in
veiled with the n:-:iona! power, but t;
maintain the excc»ti»n of those laws. Hi
has already directed the min!i';ers of juftlct
to denounce to his comruihioners in th<
criminal tribunal; die crimes perpetratec
yesterday. Ke has today enjoined the de
partments. thf municipality, ail public of
ficerr, civil and military, to employ all th;
niepir given them by the Conftitntion, t<
re-«&a6!ith order and peace. He invite:
all citizens to concord, to refpefc lor la
confKtutcd authorities, to '.eal for main
taining tranquility ; and in cafe of its be
ing dilhu-bed, he enjoins all the mends <>
their country and of liberty, to give fore,
to the law."
BELFAS T, July 14.
The following address to the National \f
fembly of France was this day agreed to
unanimoully, at the commemoration
of the French revolution, as propo
sed by jphn Crawfotd, Efcuire.
" IT is not from van' • y or oftentacion
thnt we, the citizens of Belfalt, and citi
zen soldiers of that town and neighbour
hood, take the lib erty-of ac'drefling the re
presentative maiefty of the French people.
We address you with the rational refbe-i 1 .
due to a title elevated far above all fervib
and idolatrous adule.ticr, and with that a;-
feftiOnate fraternity of heart which or.rhl
to unite man to man, in a mutual and infe
parab'e union bfinterefts, of duties and a I
rights; which ought to unite nation vvitli
nation, into cr:e great republic of the
world.
" On a day, fanflified as this h?s been, by
a declaration of human right, the germ oi
so much good to "mankind, we meet with
joy together, and with well to France, to
her National Alfembly, to her people, to
her armies, and to her king
" May you, legislators, maintain, by the
indefatigable spirit of liberty, that cc.rtitu
tion which h;: been planned by the wisdom
of your predecelfors, and never may you
weary in the work yon have undertaken,
until you can proclaim with triumphant fc
curitv. It is fini.'iied '. Manifefi. to an atten
tive and pro'gr, .i\ e world, that it is not
the phrenzy of ph lofophy, nor the fever of
wild and precarious bberty, which could
produce such oo -. .iued agitation, but that
imperilhable fpsr t of freedom alone, which
always e sifts in the hearts of man, which
now animates the heart of Europe, and
which, in the event, will communicate it;
energy throughout the world, invincible
and immortal.
"We rejoice, in the security of our fouls,
that this creative spirit animates the whole
mafi of mind in France. We auspicate
happiness and glory to the human race,
from every great event which tails into ac
tivity the whole vigor of the Whole com-
X jnuiuy; amplifies so largely the held ofen
"terprife and improvement, and gives free
scope to the universal foul of empire. We
trull that you will never submit the liber
ties of France to any other guarantees than
Cod, and the right hands of the people.
" The power that preiuuies to modify or
to arbitrate witti respect to a conftitutiou
adopted by the people, is an uftirper ami a
despot, whether it be the meanest of the
inob, or tiie ruler of empires, and ifyo.i
coudefcend to negotiate the alteration of a
•omnia in your conltitutioiial code, Fra;ice,
in tint moment, '* a flare. Impudent def
pen of Europe ! I* it not enough to crulh j
tinman nature beneath your feet at home,
that you thus come abroad to disturb the
domeftn: happinefa of the nations arcund
yon. anil pllt in motion your armies, thoft
enormous mafies of human machinery, to
beat down every attempt that man makes
tor V', own happiness? It is high t:me to
titrn theic oreadful engines an;".inft their
inventors, and organised as they have hi
therto been, for the misery of mankind, to
rnahe them now the inllruments ot its glo
ry and its renovation.
" Success, therefore, attend Ihe armies
of France !
"May your soldier-, with whom war is
no" a trade, bnt a duty, remember they do
ij it fight merely for themfelvc3, but that
tney aro the advance guard of the world :
nor let them imagine that the event of the
war is uncertain. A (ingle battle may oe
orecarious, not so a tew Campaigns. there
is an omnipotence in a righteous cause,
which matter* f l'" p-i-tended mn'abii'ty o!
human affairs, and fixes the supposed in
coniiitcncy of fortune. If you will be free,
"o i it;>){t • this not a chance that .'re
million of resolute men can be enflavd ;
no power on earth is able to do :t; rnd
•••ill the God of juflice and mercy ? Sol
diers ! thrre is fotiictking that fghts lor
.•on even in the hearts of your enemies.
1 he native energies of humanity rife tip m
voluntary array agatnft tyrannical and pre
■lolieroas prejudice, and all the little cabal
of the heart give way to the feelings «f na
ture, of country, and of kind.
" Freedom and profpetity to the people of
France ! We think that Inch revolutions as
:'ney have sccomplip'rd, are so far from being
3Ut of the order of focie'.v, that they fpringinc-
M' iblv from the nature of man and the progref-
Don of rcafon •, what is imperfect, he has the
power to improve ; what lu-has created, he has
i riftht to dellroy. It is a rath oppolition to tlae
rreiiihb'C will of the public, that in Tome in—
Dances has maddened a disposition, oth?".viic
mild and magnanimous, turned eneigy into fero
city, and the gencrou; and gallant spirit of the
French into fury and vengeance. Vv'e tru'l
that everv effort they now make, every hnrdfhip
they undergo, every drcp of blood they (hed,
will render their conflitution more dear to
them.
' Long life and happiness to the king o! the
French ! not t c lord of the foil and it servile
appendages, but ;he lung of men, who can prc
terve their rights, while they cntrufl their pow
ers. In tn s crisis of his f :te, may lie withlland
eve y atiem.pt to eS range him ftom the nation ;
to mahe him a i exile in the midst of 1* ranee,
and to prevent him trom identifying hiiiifelf as
a magidrate with the couQitution, and as a
Frenchman with the people.
'• We bei'eech voa all a; men, as legidator:,
as ciliae ns, and as fbldiers, in this your great coi
flift for liberty, for France, an;! for the world,
to difpife all earthly danger, to lookup to God,
and to cenn el your councils, your „niis, ar.cl
your Empire to hn throne, with a chain oi urn
on, foititude, perfcvcrance, morality, and te
ligion.
11 We conclude, with the fervent prayer :
That as the almighty is difpeifing the politi
cal clouds which have hitherto darkened cat
henifjihire, all nations may uie the ha!.'. o:
11 nven : that as in this latter the Creator
is unfclaing in Ins creatures, powers which had
long lain latent ; th-y nay exert them in the
iniablilhmer.t ct uiitveiul frecdoin, harmony
md peace t may thole who are (ree, never be
ilaves ; may thole who are llaves be speedily
free."
To the Ed itop. of the National Gazette.
Richmond, Sept. re, 17Q?..
T HAVE been very impolitely attacked
X in Mr. Fenno's paper Without provoca
tion —shall thank you re pnblilh my answer,
whieli is in Duvi-.'s Virginia Gazette of to
lay. I had no idea that the eft ay intended
for til's 11 ■te would be re-nublilhed in Plii
' a'elpbia; this being the cafe, I (hall be
ijad that the explanations have the fame
t'ate. 1 am, your obedient,
HENRY BANKS.
Mr. Davis,
Mr. JOHN f ENNO, in a late paper,
charges me with an untruth, and eudea
voars to prove it by faying that the duty on
nails is one cent per pound. The law of
Congress as publilhed, fays the duty is two
cents per pound. —toco tc-d. nails will
weigh 14 pounds—the duty is 28 cents—a
bout rf) V irginia currency, 2j'> pennsylva
nia, 2j(i New-York and North-Carolina,
without the addition of the merchants ail -
vaace. For the fake of round numbers,;
said that nails were advanced in price two
(hillings per thousand, and even if I could
not I'upport the assertion, 1 mult have a bet
ter opinion of Mr. F. than' h : .3 paper ha
ever yet juttified, to take any thing which
he publilhes, as a truth. Minifierial pa
pers, I am told, have ail exclusive patent
tor lying, and as extraordinary patent, bait
been lately given by Congress for some
things, I am to infer that Mr. F. is under
the protection of feme demagogue of the
times. —When lilfehood is i.ppoftil to
truth, and a plain, candid übfervation of a
private citizen is tortured into (edition, Oh,
ihams where is thy power I Oh, rcpubli
tan'tfui, where at r . Thou fled ! But I will
invite yot: to return ; Virginia will givo yotf
an asylum. I (hall at a proper season make
o'ofervatiens 0:1 the favorite, and diabolical
maxims, that public debts are public blef
frngs, and that the exigencies of govern
ment (hould be always equal to her re
sources ; martinis which have widely ex
tended the fields of Speculation, and which
marshall one part of the community in the
(hap- of in army, another in that of place
men, who play into each other's hands like
the ebbing and flowing of tides.
HENRY BANKS.
September ro, 1792.
PHILADELPHIA,
September."*, 1752.
The following statement of the quantity
of rice (hipped from Charleflon, South-
Carolina, from the 15th of Dec. 1791, to
c ept. ; -i) 3, hu been handed to us by a gen
tleman from that capital : viz. One hun
:ired and eight thoufard five hundr;d and
iixty-feven tierces. The nctt weight of
:ach tierce may be averaged at jjolb.
By a private letter fr~m Canada to a
gentleman i;i this town, we learn, that Lt.
Governor Sirncoe brought from England
with him all the civil officers of his new go
vernment of the Upper Province wh'ch he
governs : also a rew regiment called the
Queen's Rangers, railed for the service of
that country, together with one battalion
of the 60th, and the whole of the 24th regi
ment. amounting to nearly 1800 regular
troops : the militia of both provinces are
also tinder the ftri£teft (iifcipline. The let
ter further adds, that all the Indian warri
ors of Lower Canada have alfembled. and
are on their way to join tire confederation
(which is said to be general) against the
United States ; they are to meet a grand
council which they fay arc to aflemble at
the Miami villages. It is thought in Qne
h c that the American; would five much
expence and blood filed by a timely peace,
as there never was known so general a
league of those barbarians of the wilder
ness.
The present situation of Europe, fays a
correfpordent, (hould attract the attention
of every American citizen. He may there
learn a leflon which will enable him to
judge with what anxiety he ought to
watch over the condu£t of those to whom
he has intruded the welfare of his country.
When he fees the combination formed in
the old world by those who are in reality
the mere stewards of the people against
tiieir matters, though at the fame time he
ought to congratulate himfe'f upon his hap
py condition, he (hould doubtlels ta'f.e every
method in h'« power to insure the tranfmif
iion to posterity, of the bleiiings which he
enjoy . For the attainment of this end,
there are no means so important as a pro
per choice of representatives in Congref*,
especially at the present early period ol our
I olitical life. It is from tiie youth of a
people that their national chara&erin inan
■Ood is derived. If tiie feeds of corrup
tion are early sown, the foil becomes con
genial a" ! the crop but too abundant. The
jU. :es of government arc in thi. cafe creat
:d not for the good of the public, but for
:lie emolument of individual:; ; And in
:'r,te the modest dignity of a republic is
hrown afule for the meretricious pagean
try of monarchical !plendor. If on the con
trary the plant of freedom is watched with
rare, and the canker-worm of corruption
s never fullered to prey upon the buds of
liberty, political happiness will be left un
ululterated as a legacy to thousands of
venerations. The pollerity of Americans
■v .1 reverence the work of their anceliors,
nal the example will infpirs them with a
acred regard to the pledge committed to
.heir care, and freedom will still have an
illyiuiii in the United States of America.
On Tuesday last Doctor Cl Asget, of
[he state of Maryland, was consecrated bi
hop for that state, in New-York, by the
Right Reverend Doctor Samuel Pro-
VOOST.
Extrafl cf a letter from Wafiington, dated the
27 th of Augujl. 1792.
• ' The Indians that captivated a family
off Clinch, the 11ft ii.ii. have been overta
ken the second time. Capt. Lewis with
his-company fell in with them at Marman's
old llation, on Sandy river. The enemy
were quitefecure, and had put their.guns in
one of their qabbins,whilft all were without
at a fire, buiily roasting corn and pumpkins.
The captain had divided his men into Iwo
parties, with an intention of surrounding
them on the laud iide, and forcing them in
to the river. But unfortunately only one
party came tip in time—However, the In
dians were liml on, and had to fly with
futh precipitation, that they left ad their
plunder, and even their guns.
" Governor lllountis returned to Knox
% ilie, having fuccecded in his negotiation*
with the Chiikafaws ordy. The Cherokee:
continue their murders and depredations on
the Cumberland fcttlemcnt. Should the
Cherokee? appear in force against u-, the
fortification lately ordered will be si ui:ii
of lingular life. Governor Elountlias late i\
ordered a proportion of the militia in o a; -
tual Service for nine mouths. Tki» proves
his apprehsntions frcm his neighbours tbo
Cherokees."
The glass works near Albany, for fair.?
years wholly negiefled, have been lately
pUrchased by for-e citizens of Albany, and
fitted up in the be't nmanner, for cflrryirg
0:1 the business in its utmcft expert.—The
w/mrlow-glaft at prefe.it manufa£Htred at
works, we are alfured,is equal to any
from Rriftol.
"We are lorry to heir s hat there has bee f i
a greater demand for fills, within the last
year, than there has ever been in any on>;
year, within the United States. These ftilH
are, ; n general, small and accommodated to
faimilyufe. It appears, from this melancho
ly fa£t, that the remark of Mr. Findley, in
:>ne of the numbers of his Sidney, is well
Founded, viz. " that all the extra appetitet
become more clamorous in their demand
by every attempt that is made to restrain
them."
"At this particular period (fays'the I>of
ton Ind. Chronica) certain individuals, who
keep behind the curtain, are employed ill
renting their abuse every man who
s attempting; " to keep awake that true republi
■an spirit which fnould never seep in the breaji of
in independent eleSor.''' Tiiey are endeavour
ing in a libellous manner, to represent such
men as inimical to government, because
:hev wish to secure the rights ofthepeo
ilei by " tz enfant, watch upon the proceedings cf
'heir publicfcrvants. "A fEi r EasoN, a Han
cock, a Sam'!. AdAMs, a Ci.in'Tos, and a
iVlAmso?-!, are not secure at different times
again 11 their malevolent attacks. Men
whose attachment to their country was
Proved in those " times that tried men's
souls"—whose lives were jeoparded on the
success of their exertions —and who were
uninfluenced in their efforts, by the lure cf A
fundingfyjlcm, or the profits of a natural bank.
When inch diftinguiflied, disinterested pa
triots become the objefls of refenrment, it
mil ft place every man that meets with simi
lar treatment in a very refpectab'e po'nt of
view in the eyes of every free American."
The following is certified by the Gover
nor of New-Jersey to be a true lift of the
names of ail the persons propo'ed as candi
dates to be voted for by the e'eEors of' Ne
w as representatives in the Contrref:'. of
he United' States: James I\ Armstrong,
John Bayard, John Beatty, Joseph Bloom
ield, Elias Boudinot, Lambert Cadwalla
ler, John Chetwood, Abraham ( lark, f ii
as Dayton, Jonathan Dayton, Samuel Dick,
Jonathan Elmer, John Harring, The mas
Henderfon, Aaron Kitchell, James I.inn,
Thomas Sinnickfon, Joseph Smith, John
Witherfpoor.e. The follow'ng gentlemen
hive likewise been pi opofed, but decline,
"erving—Frederick Frelinghuyfen, Richard
Howell, James Kinfey, Samuel Leake, Aa
ron Ogden, Abm. Ogden, Jas. Schtireman.
Extrad of a Ittlerfrom agcntlemtn now in Gnncck,
(Scotland) dated July 2?.
" You will no doubt have seen Fame's
econd part of the Rights of Man. When I
was in Edinburgh (about two months ago)
1 bought a copy of it and took it to Gre
lock with me, there being no other in the
whole town. When it was known I had
uch a book i.i my pcfieffion, I was conl:-
lered as a petfon that wanted to sow Pe
tition, and the people here are so attached
:o business and religion in preference t<»
;very tiling else, that' I found it neceii'ary
:o peruse Mr. Paine in secret, and never
venture to mention his name in public."
%* THE frcultits cf rlf.bility cannct
atherwife than be a little agitated hi ti a
atefolema confederation of a certain high
ninded TRIO, to annihilate, crulh, do a
,vay, and forever destroy the Nat'onal Ga
zette. TheT.'o, however, will be pleated
:o take notice that the dubbin* of their lit
:le abilities will not alone aufuerthe end
;hat they have pledg'd themselves to ac
;omplith. Such an undei taking requires
" better ftulT."
THREE well-fed lad*, in solemn junto
met,
Swore to destroy the National Gazette ;
One fuelt a hri.be, that never did exist,
One fcrawi'd some nonsense with ins mut
ton tilt,
One, fwoln with fancied Rate and fancied
power,
Reported lie?, that scarcely liv'd an hour:
Bold were their aims (even envy migfcc
confels)
But paunch done can never criiiTi this prrfs ;
Alike we scorn their lies in verse and pro
Their breadth of telly, or their—length if
nose.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS,
September, 1792.
D. H Bar. Ther. Wind. Weatk.
'Vednefday, 12. C 30. t jo ,N. E.I fair.
2 30. i,'. 71 'S. E | Haze.
Thurjcay, 7JT C 30. 1 54 , E.l Lair.
E 30. 1 "4 [ do. ] do.
"Friday, 14. (> 3°- c 53 S.s.w j Fair
9. 29. ( -]'A S. W. Hare.
Saturday, 15. 6j 39.7. 14 Calm. \ Fog y.
2 29. 8 71 I N. n".:'r.(7v.
Sunda , 10. 6j 29.9- <4 N. E.\Ci vdy.
ej 20- 8.. (9 I do. | Rain.
Monday, 17. CI .9. 8 62 N-E H-un
2J 29. 9 1 71 ] do. Clm.'r.
7u fday, 18. 6j _',o. 5! 37 I tN. .Cloudy.
a I ,0. i| tS 1 do. \ a*.For the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
Pie afe to puhl'tjh the following little produ:
iion, ami oblige, yours, &c.— Simplicitas.
A Song.—Extempore.
The Robin Redbreajl ; or, the ignorance Oj
a Citizen discovered.
PLEAS'D with the soothing drains J
heard
I knew not whence they came,
When lo ! I saw a pretty bird
Come hopping, as if lame.
Molly, whom late T made my bride,
Whose sympathy 1 knew,
W39 juil then seated by my fide
Andpity'd Robin too.
Eager I sprang, the bird to seize,
To gratify a whim,
To learn if care could eafi
The little mangled limb.
Alas ! cry'd I, what cruel maa
Could hurt so sweet a bird—
But Molly fmil'd, and, as I ran,
Could atight be more absurd ?
The warbler prov'd he was not lam'd,
Then foar'd the i 1 ills high top,—
Tin's chea', a robin red-breajl nam'd,
Only appear'd to hop.
Sept. 20.
MANIFESTO
Of the King of Prussia.
A Exposition of the Reafon9 whicl
have determined his Majesty to tike up Arm
agaiuft France.
(Publified at Berlin, July 24 1792./
HiS Pruflian Majesty flatters him (elf that th
powers of Europe, and the public in gener
al> vvill not have waited tor this expedition to si
their opinion on the justice of thecaufe which h
is going to defend. In 'ast, no one, who is n o
desirous of misunderstanding the obligation
which she king's engagements, and his politica
connexions impose on him, and of (hutting the!
eyes upon the conduO of the prcfent goveinmen
of France, can deny that the warlike ineafuies 01
which his majesty has with regret determined, an
the natural conlequences of the violent rel'olution
which the madncb of the party predominating 11
Franco have made h;m adopt j and of which i
was easy 10 foiefce the fatal consequences.
Not content with havingop<;nly violated, by th 1
notorious luppreflion of the rights and poUelfion
of the German princrs in Aifuce and Lorraine
the treaties which unite France and the Germai
empire j with having given way to principles fub
verlive of all social subordination, anu consequent'
]y of the repose and felicity of nations . and with
having fought tofpread in other countries, bv th<
propagation of these principles, ihe feeds of licen
tioufnefi and anarchy which have overturnec
France : with having tolerated, favoured, and e
ven out dilcourfes and writings outraging
the faired persons and legal authority of lover
eigus ; they who have seized upon the reins o;
administration in Fiance, have at length filled uj
the meafuies of their iniquities by declaring ai
unjufl war against his majesty the king of Hun
gary and Bohemia, and followed up their declar
ation, by committing real hostilities against th<
Bel gic provinces of that monarch.
The German Empire, of which the Netherland:
mak? a part, as the circle of Burgondy, finds it
iclf necessarily comprehended in this aggreUion,
But other fads have but too much juitified the
fear of hostile invafionl, which the menacing
preparations of the French on the Frontiers had
for a long time railed in Germany. The territo
ries of the Bi/hop of Basle, inconteftibly a part ol
the empire, have been occupied by a detachmenl
of the French army, and are fhll under its powei
and discretion. Incurfionsof the troops of the
fame nation, or corps of rebels aflembled undei
their auspices have aelolated tire country of Liege.
It may be certainly forefeen, that as soon ?.$ evei
the conveniences for war would appear to counsel
it, the other provinces of Germany would experi
ence the lame fate $ and the knowledge of theii
loca I polition is lulficient to /how the imminent
danger to which they are exposed.
lc would be fuperlluous to enter into a detail ol
the fa£ts here alledged j they are notorious j the
whole empire has been, and ftiil is witness 01
them. If ir were poflible to entertain any doubt!
of the injustice of the French the)
would be entirely removed, by impartially weigh
ing the unanlwerable arguments on this point ir
the diplomatic pieces of the Cabinet of Vienna.
His Prussian majesty entertained hopes for s
long time, that at length, after so many agitatiom
and inconsistent proceedings, the persons whodi
xedted the French administration would return 10
the principles of moderation and good sense, and
avoid the extremities to which things are br»ught
It was with salutary views that at the commence
ment of the military preparations of France or
the frontiers, founded on the afjlum granted b)
some Itates to the French princes, he engaged his
minister Count de Goltz, residing at Paris, to de
clare to the ministry of his most Chriitian maj-f
ty " that he would look upon any invalion of the
territory of the German empire as declaring of
war, and would oppose it with all his forces. The
minister after receivng orders, found the Charge
des Affaires of his majesty ihe emperor,in a num
ber of representations, making known in the rnoft
express manner, that the king was invariably pur
filing the f*Qic l.ne with hit Apoftclic majesty
refpe&ing the affairs of France. The event has I
(hown how little his expectation, from these ener- |
geuc declarations has been anlvvered. But, at
1-aft, the party whole furious determinations have
brought on holiilites, could never pretend ignor
ance of his majeity's intentions; and it is to them
tn particular, but more generally to the princi
ples manitelted in the National AflTembly—prin
ciples which attack all governments—tnai Fiance
must take to it lei/ the efrulion of human blood,
and the misfortunes which the present circum
itances have brought upon her, and which are
likely to increase. His Prufiian majesty noc be
ing able to remain a tranquil fpedla.or of tne wai
his Apoltolic Majesty, has not heliia.ed to
recall his resident minister from Paris, and to adi
in defence of his Ally.
Aa a preponderating member of the Germanic
bod), he owes it ado to his relations in rhat qual
ity to marchto the luccour of his co-eilates againfl
the attacks chtry have alreauy experienced, anc
with which they are daily menaced j it is mei;
under the double an ally of his Apol
tolic ma jetty, and as a member of tlx
German empire, that hjFmajelty takes up aims ;
ind it is the defence ot the territories of that mo
narch, and of Germany, which forms the lirli
motion of his argument*
But the king would but imperfedllv conform t<
Ihe principles which he has profefTed, if he dit
not exit nd the eftorts of his arms to another kiiu
it defence, which his patriotic sentiments equally
impolo upon him as a duty.
Every one knows how the French, in contemp
ot the molt lacred Jaws, and the right of the nati
or?s, and again ft the ex pre Is tenor <> treaties, hav<
Jefpoiled the German princes of their rights am
incontellible pofi'ellions in Allace and Lorraine
and the declarations that many of thoie prime
have themfeives caused to be pubiiflu-d, as well a
the deliberations and arrets of the 1J)jc t of Roil
bjn on that important matter, will furnifh proof
of the injultice of the proceedings of the Frencl
government in that relpedt, which has nt liithert
to gram a full indemnity to the aggriev
ed parties j but adopting a peremptory languag
and threatening measures, o»ly offered indemni
lies altogether inefficient and inaiimifiible. It i
worthy ot the king and of the augult ally, to le
justice done to the oppreiled princes, and to ma n
tain the faith of treaties, the only bafts of unioi
and reciprocal confidence among people, and th
t-llential foundation of their tranquility and wel
fare.
1 here is indeed another end of the king's ar
maments, dill more extensive than the former
and not Ids worthy of the wife and beneficen
views of the a hed courts.—This tends to pre
vent the incalculable evils that may result ti
France itlelf, to all Europe, to all mankind, fron
that fatal spirit of general insubordination, o
subversion of ail powert, the spirit of licentious
nels.
There is no power Interested in the mainte
riarice of the equilibrium of Europe, who can bi
indifferent in ieeing the kingdom ot France, which
lias long formed lo considerable a weight in thi
giand balance, delivered up to its internal agita
|ions, and to the horrors of disorder and of anar
chy, which have, as it were, annihilated its polit
ical exigence : nor is there any Frenchman, ;
true l< ver of his country, but most ardently de
sire to fee them terminated : any man, in fine, ;
lincere friend to humanity, who mull n<jt wi/h t<
lee a b undary put to ibis imposture of liberty, »J
Lindei stood, whose fadtion has led the people altraj
their real happiness, by disturbing thi
Jappy bands of confidence and attachment whicl
aught to unite them to their princes, their father
ind their defenders ; to put bounds to the un
fury of the wicked, who seek to deftro<
he refpedtdue to government, only to facrifio
on the ruins of the throne to the idol of their infa
tiable ambition, or of a vile HupiJity.
To put an end to anarchy in Fiance } to eftablifl
:here a legal power upon the effcatial bafts of ;
monarchical form ot government—to secure bj
• his m ans other governments again# the incen
iiarv efforts of a frantic moo, this is the grand
»bj?lt which the king, conjointly with his ally
prop ;les to himfeii j allured, in ihii noble enter
prise, not only of the avowal of all the powers o
■ope, who acknowledge its justice and necefiity
but in general ©f the fuftrage and good wi/heso
whoever interests himfeif in the happiness, o;
mankind.
Hi.« Majesty is very far from being willing 11.
throw on the whole French nation the blame 01
fliofc unhappy circumstances which force him tc
take up arms. He is persuaded that the greateli
part of that estimable nation abhors the excefi'e!
of a too powerful fadtion ; of the danger:
to which their intrigues expose the nation, am
desires aifetuin of justice, oforder, and of peace.
Unhappily, experience (hows that the momentary
influence of that party is still but too real, thoup li
the event has aheady demonflrated the inutility
of their culpable projects, founded only on infur
redtions, which it seeks to foment.
Ihe difference of sentiment in persons well
Jifpofed, however certain, is but little perceived
in its effedts. But his Majelly that, a*
lafl opening their eyes to the dreadful situation
of then country, they will /how ah the energy
which fojuft a caule ou e ht toinfpirej and that',
looking upon the troops aflotnbled on the froi/-
fiers as their true friends and proteflors, tbey will
learn justly to appreciare the fdd>ious, who have
Dut France in a combuftlon, and will alone be
responsible for the blood which their criminal en
terpriles will cause to be (hed.
Berlin j June 26, 1792.
George Town, Junl 2, 1702.
A NUMBER of LOTS in every lituation
w'.ncli ra»y bedefired in the city of V/alh
ington, w'lll be offered for sale, by the Commis
sioners on Monojy the Bth day of Oflober ntxt
One fourth part of the purchaf; money to L
paid down, the refi lue in thue euaal annual oav
ments, with yearly interest on the whole princi
pal unpaid. JOHN M. C".NTT,
July 25. Clerk to the Commifiioners.
*♦* For [alt at this Office, Sermons by
the Rev'd Dr. WiUiam Lmn, oj N. York
Price 5/7 l-a.
To bepuU'iJhcd by Subfcr'ihlion,
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER
OR
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Oil (Jonai&^d,
From September 1774, to March ,1789 —an au
thentic and original collection of
Official betterd Sfc.
Written during the late war ; — and Ex
tra&s from the
Yournald.
[t^ 3 [For particulars, J e t>be Proposals at large.
Subscription s are received by the principal
booksellers, and by the Editor,
JOHN CARF.Y, No. 26, Pear-Street, PhiJa
delphia.
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. Oswald,
(Piicc EltVen Pence)
FIVE LETTERS,
addrefled to the
Yeomanry of the United States
CONTAINING some Qbiervaiions on th<
Scheme of Cover.,Or Duer and Mr Secreu
iy Hamilton, to e.'lublifh National Manufactures
by a FARMER. Thi pamphlet, so highly in
rerelting at this period, may be had at thi* follow
ing places : at Mr. Oswald's Pnnting-Office, No
156, Market-street j at No 209, Market rtreet;
at IV"r. Dobfon's, 41, South Sicond-ftreet; a
Mr. C.uklhanks, 91, Market-ftrect j at Mi
Aiikcn's, 22, Markeuilreel j and at Mr.
S. \V. corner of Chelnuc anci Sccond-ltieets.
21.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale by the Printer,
John M'Culloch, at No, i. North Third
Street, and by most of the Book-
Sellers in this city,
( Price 3/9)
MODERN CHIVALRY:
Containing the
Adventures of Capt. John Farrago
and
Teague O'Regan,
liis Servant. v -
VOLUME 11.
By H. H. BR AC KEN RIDGE.
Quicquid agunt Homines, nojiri, Farrago libelli.
Juvenal
PUBLIC REPORTS
FROM THE
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
OF THE
Govekmext »/ the Lfn'ED States
TO
CONGRESS,
Commencing with, the present Government, and end
mg with the close oj the Sejjion of May, 1792 .
THIS work rs intended to be printed in on
volume octavo, eflimated to contain bctweei
five and fix hundred pages, and will be deliver
ed to fubferibers in boards at One Dollar and ;
half.
A complete collcflion of the Reports into
convenient and portable volume hasbbeen fu
gelled to the pubhlliers by several members o
Congress and other gentlemen, and they are nov
determined io proceed on with the work, provi
ded a competent number of fubferibers appca
to patronize the undertaking.
Subscriptions are received by CHILDS am
SWAINE, the pubhlh rs, No. 209 Market
fireet, Philadelphia, and by the principal 800 l
fellers in the United States. May 24.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale at the Printing-Oflice,
No. 209, Market-Street,
and at Thomas Dobfon's Bouk-Storehi
Second-Street,
Price Three Eighths of a Dollar,
ADVICE
TO THE
PRIVILEGED ORDERS,
in the
SEVERAL STATES of EUROPE,
Reflating from the neceflity and pro
priety of a General Revolution in
the Principle of Government.
By Joel Barlow, Efqutre.
*„* Three handsome Editionj »fthe Laws
of the United States for sale at this njfict
(No. 209 MarletJlreet) in Julio and otla
vo, either full or half bound—Nl). Tht
Laws of the Iqfl Sejjion, in odavo only, may
be hadfejarate, price three eighths of a dollar.
P LAN S
OF TH r CITY OF WASHINGTON
FOR S /i L F. BY
MESSRS. Dobfon, Young, Crukfliar.J , and
Caiev, in the ciry.
Sept. ij. 4t.
Society for eJ}jb/i/bi»g ufrful Manufactures,
N r OTiCE is hereby given to the holders of
tfock inthe 'aid society, that the following
arrangement has besn mad< by the Deputy Go
vernor and Directors thereof, by a relolution of
he eighteenth day of May, 1792.
Tile ftcond instalment foi the payment of fharei
n the ltjck. of this society, may b: made in tiia
ollov.ing manner, vi 1.
The amount of the said second infialment, be
ng 20 13-ido doSlari each (hare, may be paid in
nrce paymenu. on condition that tbe lawful in
ereft of 7 cj; cent, per annum, be calculated
in J paid wittfeach proportionate part of the said
ayment, that is to fay, on or before the thir
senth day of August next, the sum of 6 71-100,
vim the addition of 12 cents, being the iuterell
.f one month on 13-100 dollars—on or be
fore the 13th of Sepcember next, the sum of 6
u-ico doiJars, with the adJition of o cents, be
■>g the interell for one month on 13 42100 dol
ors—and oil of before the 13th of October n«xr,
lie sum of 6 71-100 dollars, with the addition of
t cen'.s, b'.'ing the interest on the fame for oat
ilotJth* The said payment* are to be made at the
1 allowing places, viz. In the city of Philadelphia,
ii the bank of the United States— t w-Brunf
• iclc, in New-Jersey, to John 15 i ..id, or J«»hn
N'eilfon, Efqrs—and in the city of New-Yor't. at
the bank of New Yoik, or either of the laid
places, which may be mod convenient to the
ifock holders.
By order of the direflion,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerk.
J"'.v *4- tf.
FOR SALE,
A ROUT 100,000 acres of Land, lvini» n-ar
. Whiteilown, in the state of N»- Voflt, oil
t .c north file of the ...j
NobK borough, anJ will be fold eithei in paicels
0 together, as may fuir fh■ ; urchafers.
N. B. The above t; £! . ; land j> of the firft
quality in the (late, chic.l y timbered wi'h beach
and maple, well watered, id c ,n:.r s ir.anv mill
leafs. The peculinr advantage; of this trad, Ii u
ated within a lew mi'es of Whirertown (which
contains upwards of five thoufind inhabitants)
wi h an easy and convenient v.iter ca-ri to
Sch-ni£Hdy, Albany, and New-Yotk. mil. < it an
bj?ct tor an\ perlons inclined to fettle it, and refi
ll it an extreme.lv advantage, us purrhale for
eifoi>» .r.tlinee iO realize their money in land of
an encrcafing value. ') h: whole tract 01 any part
f it, wih be lold very low for calh, o** (or part
afl>, and the remaining payment- at diliant pe i
d . Enquire at No. 229 Qjeen fireet, near the
rl -tnailcct New York.
July 19.
Terres a Vendre
Dan un pais bicn p.t.-ju'/,—
(OA\ OIR, f. ixante cinq mille, trois cens, foix-
Cj ante et quatorze Slcres, en ur» c feale piece,
Jans le canton le mieux people ic la Caroline Me
•idioßa.'e, le oiitii£t de Ninety - Six. Ces terres
iunt /knees dan* unc contice agreabie, et lalouie,
>u ies fievres font incor.nuesj a envfron vingt I'eue®'
Je Colornbie, la Capitals, et contigul'j ala ville
le Cambiid-gc, du il y a College, et C <u. inden
ture. A environ <l()uze li il y a bonne na vi—'
ra'ion jet il eft tres probable, q-: * dans quelque
cms on r< ndra navigable le Grand Salude, riviere
arrofe les terres mcmes. Elles font a-r - abie»
ment diverfifiees de coteaux et vallon? ch3rTian3,
ffcrtii'res a la culture du tabac, du coron, du mais y
ct du petit grain } et dont unc pi mnr'" n eonfider
ablt- fe peut aifeinent conv'ertir en piairies ferti rs.
II n ert peut-eue gueres poi.ible icucontrcr une
pare:He piece Ge tcrre a vrnJre dans jmcun autre
je* Unis } et pour le* conditio..:, tie I'achat,
les rendra tres commodes.
S'informer a I'imprimerie de la Gazette Na
lionale. Sept. 5.
LANDS FOR SALE,
TN a well fettled Country. SIXTY-FIVE
1 I HOUSAND THREE KUNIJRE'J AND
SEVENTY FOU,< ACRES OF LAND, in , c
jody, in the nioft populous part of tire ftjte of
3 )urh-Carolina, in the diftrifl of Ninety-fix - It
sli uatel in a fine healthy cliniat',free from fever
Si ague,ab>ut lixty in les from Columbia, the f. at
>1 g ivernment. '1 he land is contiguous to the
own or Cambridge, where are a feminarv for the
i iltiuciiun of youth, and a luperior law court. It
1 at pieent within about thirty-five miles of good
natation, with a probability of having the river,
railed the Great Saluaa, that alur, = one fide
ij the land, made navgjble. The land ib beauti
l > ydiveiffi d into swells and vales, jnd is -:er
•■ctlywcll calculated for the culture of tobacco,
:6ttun, Indian e .rn, and final! grain j a .. cat
"on'irti m o it ma b' made me 3 d">v . r td,
I he e is nor, perhaps, such a body of I n I, I , ; j r .
imft.inced, or sale in any other f the V. Si a ,•«.
The terms of payment will be made conv nient t>
the purchaser or puichaleis. Apply to tl.e i' i ~er.
Augult 29.
SOCIETY FOR ESTAIiLiSHING
USEFUL MANUFACTURES.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Stockholders
of the Society for eltablilliing ufeful nnnu
•actures, that the annual ele&ion tor Direcfois of
ihe said ficiety will be held at the Courthouicin
New Ark in the county of Ellex on the fi:il Mon
day in Gftiber next, between the hours of twelve
arid two in the afiet noon of ihe- fame day, ?
A. MERCER, Deputy Governor."
New-Ark Ju'y, :7th 1792.
Printed by
CHILDS AND SWAINE,
AT TilEtß OF7JCK NO. 20 9 , U.Gh. street
K E Ast FIFTIJ-JTRtET,
FHILAIBLPHIA*