Vol. I.
Exposition of t!it motives ou which the
Fretfch National Aflembly have pro*
claimed the Convocation of a.National
Convention, and pronounced the fuf
pension of the executive power in the
hands of the king.
THE National Aflemblv owe to the
nation, to Europe, and to posteri
ty, a rigorous account of the motives
which have determined their late resolu
tions.
Placss between the duty of remaining
faithful to their oaths, and that of saving
their couatry> they wi£hed to fulfil both
at the fame time, and to do all that the
public fafety required, without usurping
the power* with which the people had not
eotrufted them.
At the opening of their fefSon, an as
femblage of emigrants, forme.! on the
frontiers, kept up a correspondence with
all the enemies of liberty that were it ill to
be fund io the departments, or among
the troops of the line; and fanatical pi ielts,
infufing trouble into fuperllitious minds,
fought to persuade those deluded citizens
that the conilitulion wounded the rights
of conscience, and that the law had con
fided the functions of religion to fchifmati
cal and facrilegioiw persons.
Finally, a league formed among power
fill kings, menaced the liberty of France ;
they fancied they had a right to fix to
what degree the interest of th. ir despotism
permitted us to b« fr- e, and flattered
themselves that they ihouid lee the sove
reignty of the people, and the indepen
dence pf.the French empire, fall down be
fore thf atmis of ther llaveg.
Thus everything announced a civil and
religious wot, of which a foreign war would
soon increase the danger.
The National .A (Tembly thought it thrir
dsty to repr;ls the emigrants, and to re
fttayi the fadii/U.) pricllg by fcvere decrees j
and th<J king employed againit these de
erets the suspensive refufal of fan ion
which the eonttitetion granted him. In th;
mean time, those emigrants and those
prleits were busily acting n the name of
the king j it yas to him in
what they cal'<d his luwfuj authority, that
the former had taken lip arms, and the
latter were preaching affaffi nation and tvea
son. These emigrants were the brothers
of the king, his relations, his former body
guards. And while the coirefpondence
of these fa&s with the conduit of the king
authorized, nay, enjo'ned dill;ult , this re
fufal o-f the fanfiion applied to decrees that
could not be fulpeuded without being an
nihilated, fhcw.ed clearly how the veto,
suspensive according to the law rendered
definitive by the manner of employing it
gave to the king the unlimited and arbi
trary power of rendering null all the mea
sures which the legislative h>dy might
think necefiary for maintaining liberty.
Fiom that moment, from one end of the
kingdom to the other, the people (hewed
thole gloomy difcontei'ts that announced
storms, and the suspicions which accu'ed
the executive powers, displayed themselves
with energy.
The National Assembly were not dif
icouraged. Princes who pro felled them
selves the allies of France, had givefi to
the emigrants, not an asylum, but the li
feerty of arming, of forming themselves in
to military bodies, of ievymg soldiers, of
providing military (lores; and the king
was invited, by a falann melfage, to
break, on this violation of the rights of
nations, a silence that had bten kept but
.too long. He seemed to yield to the na
tional wish; preparations for war weie
ordered ; but it was soon perceived, tl at
the ncgociations conducted by a minifby
weak or treacherous, were confined to ob
taining vain promiles, which remained un
executed, could not be regarded but as a
ihare or an insult. The league of kings
a (turned, in the mean time, a new activi
ty ; end at the head of this league, ap
peared the' Emperor, brother-in law to the
By P, FRENit AU : Pultlijked Wednesdays (and Sat-wrpays, at Tur.ee Dollars per annum .
SATURDAY;, 03ober 27, 1792.
king of the French, united to the nation
by a treaty ufefiii to him alcute, vvhiph the
canitituting Eifemhly, deceived by the tfti
nillry, h»d maintained, Uy faeriiicipg to
prefenve the hope ai that time well found
ed, of an allianc; with the huufe ofjjran
denburgli.
The National A {Terribly thmtrrht that it
was necessary for the fafety of France* tc
oblige the emperor to declare wheihcr he
would be her ally, or her enemy, and to
pronounce between two contradictory trea
ties, of which the one bound him to give
succours to and the other engaged
hinl to attack her, treaties Which he could
not reconcile, without avowing the intenti
on of separating the king from the nation,
and of reprefentiog a war against the
French people, as succours granted to his
ally. The emperor's arifwer augmented
the djftruft which this combination erf cir
cumstances rendered so natural. In it he
repeated the absurd charges against the
AfTembly of the reprcfentatives of the [
French people, againfl the popular focie !
t es established in our cities, with which
the partizan3 of the French minrftry had
long wearied the counter revolution pres
ses. He made protellations ofhisdefire'
to continye the ally of the 'King, and he
hadjuft Cgntda new league ajjainll France, :
in favor of the authority of the king of the
French.
The£e leagues, these treaties, the in
trigues of the emigrant# , who had fplicit
ed them in the name of the king, had been
concealed by the wiaiftees from the repre
f ntatives of the people. No public di£*
vowal of these intrigues, no effort to pre
vent or dilfulve this conspiracy of mo
narchy, had (hewn either to the citizens of
Fiance, or the of Furope, that the
king had iincerely united his ovrn cause to'
that of the nation.
This apparent connivance between the
cabinet of the Thuillerie.s .arid that of Vi
enna, (truck every miud ; the National
Affembiy thought it their duty to examine
with vigor the conduct of the minitler for
foreign avail's ; and a decree of accusation
was the refnlt of this examination. His
colleagues disappeared with him, and the
King's council was formed of patriot mi.
nillerfl.
The fticceffor of followed the
course of his father. He thought proper
to require for the princes, formerly pof
fefling Feifa in Alsace, indemnificatt
ons incompatible with the French con
dilution, and derogatory to the indepen
dence ot the nation. He wanted France
to betray the confidence and violate the
rights of the people of Avignon. At
length he announced other eairfes of com
plaint, which could not, he said, be dis
cussed before having tried the force gf
arms.
The king seemed to feel that thispro
vjcati >ri to war could not be borne pati
ently without betraying a fp.ameful weak
ness ; he seemed to feel how perfidious was
t his language of an enemy who pretended
to take an interest in his fate, and to dtfire
h:s alliance, for no purpose hut to.sow feeds
of discord between him and his people, cal
culated to etienvate our forces, and to flop
or disconcert their motions ; be proposed
wa' by the unanimous voice of his council,
and war wai decreed.
■By protefling the afiemblages of the
emigrants, by permitting them ;o menace
our frontiers, Jby (hewing troops in readi
ness to second them on the firft success, by
preparing a retreat for them, by perilling
in a threatning league, the k;ng of Hun
gary obliged France to make preparations
of defence ruinous in their expence, tx
haufted her finances, encouraged the au
dacity of the conspirators dispersed thro'
the departments, excited ttnealinefs among
the citizens, and thus fomented in them
and perpetuated trouble. Never did hosti
lities more really juftify war, and to de
clare was only to repel it.
The national gfeinbly were then able
tpj.uc'g<2 to whit degree, notwirhflalndiog
so often repealed, all the prepa
ratons of defence had been neglt£led. Ne
ver'htlefo tlieir UiieafinelSj their diftruftj
(Jill rptted on the former ministers, on the
secret councils of thejiipgj byt they soon
law f'ie pSuiatic nuniitcrs crossed in their
aperatiar.s, attacked with rancour by the-,
j parti J ana pF the royal authority, by those
• w'n> made a pa l ade of personal attachment
. 'o tire king.
| Our armies weie tormeflted with poli
i tica! divi/ions : discord was fowii jtmong
the commanders of the troops* as between
the generate and the triiniftry. Attempts?
wire made to transform into the inltvu
ments of party, which concealed not its
deflrc of i'ubttituting its will for that of
the reprcfentativcs qf the nation, those'
very armies that were deitined to the ex
terna] defence of the French territory,
siid to laaintair.ing the national indepen
dence.
The machinations of the priests, be
come spore active in the moment of war,
.nade a reft raining law indifpenfible ; cue
was pafTed.
i he formation of a camp between Paris
and the frontiers, was a dilpofuion happi
!y Calculated for external defence, while at
the fame time it served to give -security to
tlie internal departments, and to pre
vent the troubles which their disquiets.
might have produced ; the formation of
such a camp wjs ordered ; but these two
decrees werereje£hd by the king, and the
patriotic mini(tert) were uifipiffed.
The constitution had granted to the
Icing a guard of ISO men, and this guard
audaciouliy manifefted a contempt of civic
uties, which inspired the citizens with
indignation, or with terror ; hatred of the
constitution, and above all, ot liberty and
equality, were the beil titles for being
admitted into it.
The afTembly \v.93 forced to diflFolve this
g*iard, to prevent both the troubles which
it could not fail soon to occasion, and the
plots of counter revolution, of which but
too many indications were already uiani
fe!L The decree ww fan&ioned ; but a
proclamation by the bellowed praises
on those very men, whose difmiflion from
hisfervice he hadjuft pronounced, on those
whom he had admitted to be men justly
accused of being the enemies of liberty.
The new minilters ejeited veil founded
diltruft, and as tlvfl distrust could not flop
at them, it fell on the king himfelf.
The application of the refufa! of sanc
tion to decrees iqudered neceffafy by cir
cumstances, of which the execution ought
to have been prompt, and, mult (top with
■the decrees, was regarded in the general
opinion, 33 an interpretation of the con
(litptional adt, contrary to liberty, and
even to the spirit of the constitution.—
The agitation of the people of Paris be
came extreme ; an immense crowd of
citizens joined to form a petition in it;
they fo'icitgd the recal of the patriotic
mmitlers, and the retraction of the refufal
to fanft:on the decrees in favour of which
-the public opinion had been loudly de
clared. Tiiey d: fired leave so paf6 in arms
before the national affemb'y, after their
deputies had read their petition. This
leave, which other armed bodies had before
obtained, was granted them. They de*
tired to preffnt the fame petition to the
king, and to present it under the form*,
eltablifh.ed by law ; but at the moment
when municipal officers were coming to
ir.foAn them, that their deputies, who had
been refufed at firil, were going to be
i admitted, the gate was opened, and the
crowd rushed into the palace. The zeal
of the mayior of Pans, the ascendency
which his virtues and his patriotism give
him over the minds q£ the the
pretence of the reprefentati'es of the peo
people, of whom fuccqfiive deputations
eonitantly furnauncjed the king, prevented
all serious difcrders and so
Numb. 104.
numerous ever gave occaiioo to less difar
tier of any kind.
The king had mounted the ensignS of
liberty, he had done justice to the citizens
by declaring, that he thought himfelf in
fafety in the midst of them ; the day of
the was approaching • citizen*
from ail the departments were to repair tu
Paris, there to swear to maintain that li
berty for whish they w.ere going to fight
cn the frontiers ; and all might ft ill have
been repaired- But the ministers Jaw no
thing in the events of the 2Qth of Juut,
but e favorable occasion for sowing divih.
on between the inhabitants of Paris, and
those of the departments, between the
people and the army, between the several
portions of the national guard, between the
citizens who remained 3t thsir homes and
those who were flying to the defence of
the state. The very next day the king
changed his language, a pioclamation,
full of calumny, was profufely dillributed
among the armies 5 pne of their generals
came in the name of that which he com
manded, to demand vengeance, and to
puint out his victims. A confiderabk
number of directories of department by
unconstitutional resolutions, disclosed the
plan they hid long before formed, of raif
i"o thomfelves into a fort of mtermedi;jtc
power between the people and their re*
prefentatives; between the national assem
bly and the king. Justices of the peacc
in the very palace of ths
- huilleries, a dark procedure, in which li
Was hoped to involve those of t'he patriots,
whose vigilance and whose talents were the
moil dreaded. Already one of those jut*
tices had attempted to infringe the invio
lability of the reprefematives of the people
and every thing announced a plan dextat
roufly concerted for finding in the judicial
order, the means of giving an arbitrary
e* ten (ion to the royal authority. Letters
were found from the miniltef for the
depart ment,diredtmg the employing of force
against the federates, who might with to
take at Paiis the oath to fight Yor liberty,
and it required all the a£i*ity of the nati
onal assembly, all the patriotism of the ar
my, all the zeal of the enlightened citizens,
to prevent the fatal effete of this plan of
diforgamzation, which might have lighted
up the fl-mes of civil war. An emotion
of patriotism had extinguished in fraternal
union, the divisions that had appeared hut
too often in the national assembly, and
from this also the means of fjrfety might
have sprung. Ihe profceutionocommenc
ed hy the king's order, at the inftarce ot
the intendant of the civil lift, might have
been (topped : the virtuous Pethion pun
ched, by an unjust suspension, for having
spared the blood of the people, might have
been reinllated by the kin;? j and it was
possible, that this long series of faults and
treasons, might have fallen again entirely
upon those perfidious councilors,to whom
a confiding people had the long habit of
attributing all the crimes of our kings.
The National Assembly then saw, that
the fafety of the country required ejuraor*
dinary mcsftlres.
i hey opened a discussion on the means
of saving their country j thty iriilituted a
commission charged to consider of
prepare a plan of these means.
The declaration that the country is Jft
danger, called all the citizens to tf* com
mon defence, *11 perfens in publk: trail to
their ports,and yet in the midil of Com
plaints uncegfiiigly repeated of the' ioafti
on of government, on the* negledt, or Si
management of the preparations for war,
on the ufek'fis or dangerous motions p£
the armie?, the avowed object of which
Was to favour the political plans of one
the generals, rrinifters unknown or fuf
peiSted, were seen to fuceeed one antitljer
rapjjly, and to present, under ne.w names,
the fame ina£tivi;y, and the fame
p'es.
[To be Continued, j-LONDON, August 28.
PRISONS for debtors originated in
barbarism, and nothing can be a
iiionger prows that 11. J world is (till in a
state of i arbarifm, in a very great degree,
than keeping up a practice so injurious (o
humanity, and difgraceful to the supposed
growing re foil of nations. Tiie report oi
the committee, some time since appointed;
in this kingdom, to enquire into the prac
tice and cffe&s of imprisonment Tor debt
has filled every civilised man with horror
to reflect that so much mifety was conti
nuaTly periling among U3 in -those difma
retreats; where the imprisoned wretch i:
forgotten, afld whefe even friendlhip for
gels to approach. The following is oh<
of the melancholy pictures exhibited t:
the committee ; but by no means the moi
frightful of the group :—
A poor prisoner, on his examination ir
p-ifon, gave the following account of hi:
fuuatiori. " I have been in piifon mor<
than c-ight years—debt 22 11.—'I was :
Silk Weaver, and 101 l icol. by a man tak
ing Koods of me and abfeondrng. M)
plaintiff has been often applied to to get mi
out, but (lie re ft) fed faying (he would keep
.Bit here all my life, even if (he was forcei
to support me, I am sworn on the com
mon fide— have nothing to lire on bu
what I get from (landing once ;n fivi
days with the begging box at the door
the profit of the box, on an average, a
mounts to about two (hillings a week
I have nothing else to fufpor: me, excepl
now and then getting a job at white-wa(h
in,; ; but I have not had a j ib for f>»
nionth-s before to-day ; the whole I haw
to subsist on, is about three (hiliin -«s atic
fix pence a week—l have a wife and fom
children, buried two since I have been ir
prison—one died of a decline, and the o
ther in the small pox, the eldeil is tei:
years old, and a girl ; the other three arc
boys ; together 1 and my wife make ab-mi
a crown a week, which is the whole to sup
port my {"elf and family ; and have not :
friend to afiitt us; one prisoner is chum
jaed with me, and he, myfelf, my wife
arid children, all deep in the fame room
the room is thirteen feet by eleven ; 1
liave no complaint to make of my ireat
jcie.it in prison ; am foity. three years old :
my wif., and cluldien have been with mt
fver since the firll fix months of confine
incut; if the chum is agreeable, 110 ob
je&ion is made by the officers of the pri
son for the wife and children being with
them. I sleep on a mattrafs three feet
and half wide,-lying on he gr und, which
is all I have for myfelf, wife, and rour-c'l
then. The debt was contra&ed for silk
which I had for carrying on my trade-:
I was to have ha I fix months credit, but
-on account of leffes I was unable to dif
charge my debt. I offered, if (lie would
give me my discharge, to work it out at
tol. a year ; but the wor.ld not come to
any agreement of the fort. I paid het
ten guineas the morning (he airehed n-.e,
in her own house, where (lie arrelled me
not five minutes after the payment-. I
cannot carry on my trade here for want of
room. A gentleman of the trade would
have emp oyed me, if I could have found
roorll — h s name was Thomson. -I worked
for h m four or five yetfrs ; but when he
came to fee the situation of the place, he
could not employ me, a 6 ihe trade requires
a situation in which there is much length
and light—twelve feetof light is the leall
in which I could do any thing."
The pnfuners have 110 right to any lap
of coals or fuel ; nor is there any com
mon fire or fire pla.ee, in the molt rigotous
seasons. In the King'-s Bench, and Fleet
J'rifons, fires are kept in the Coffee room,
Taproom, and another drink room in the
Ring's Bench, called the Brace ; and on
that account the pnfoners are obliged, in
cold weather, to resort to some of those
d: inking rooms.
—— ~\
To the Editor of ihe National Gatette'.
S I R,
TN your paper of Wednesday la(l, I ob-
J_ served a piece signed Medicus, which
I have read with attention, but I nvnft
confefs not without pain ; inasmuch as it
is an illiberal and highly ungenerous
attack upon the talents and the cha
racter of a young man with whom I have
p'.ffed some of the happiest hours of the
three lad years of my life; a young man
•from whom I am daily reaping instruc
tion, and who, hi my opinion, is an craa
ruent to his csur.try.
Do not imagine, Mr. Freneau, that I
mean to enter into the Merits of the con
troveify about ledtures ; neither shall 1
pretend to to decide upon the-comprrative
merits of the ProfefTor of Materia Medica
and the Prafefforof Natural Hi;tory and
Botany in the nniverfity A3 far as my
acquaintance with Dr. Griffiths extends, I
think favourably of him ; so favourably
that 1 am persuaded he never wrote the
paper signed Medicus, since it is asserted
that the Dodter received a note from Dr.
Barton, in which the latter declared that
he had nothing to do with the " extradl"
originally publ'ifhtd in New-York, ana
since republifhed in your gazette, which
has given rife to the indecent language of
I edit us. My sole objedi, on this occ-lion,
is to render juilice to Dr. Barton, in the
view jjf a generous public.
Although Mcdicu: affe&a that the objett
of his paper is to icrve injured and m
iulted met it," yet, I think, a man mnil
he very blind, indeed, who does not dis
cover that his principal object is to injure
merit, which 1 have no hesitation in affert
siifj is of the molt superior kind.
In order to accomplifn the end, Med'icus
purfoes two ways : he endeavors to expose
to ridicule that science in the knowledge
of which Dr. Barton is coufctTcdty 'unri
valled in this country ; and he then at
tempts to rob rhe Dr. of the honour of
being acquainted with the science.
As to tha tirft objefit, Medirus might
have saved himfelf the trouble he has taken;
For the feience of Natural Hiitorv had been
exposed, as they imagined, to ridicule, by
the ignorant and the envious, long before
the birth of Medicvs. Sorry should Ibe
:o think that the candid and enlightened
;>hy!icians of Philadelphia wee of th;s
Ventleman's way of thinking. They need
iot be informed that in every polished
:ountry, both in ancient and in modern
:imes, Natural Hillory has been cultivated
as a branch of science at once beautiful
md important. They need not be told
that it has lent its aid to many of the arts
andfcienceswhichdignify and meliorate hu
man life; that it has even given new charms
to poetry, and that so nearly has it been
thought connected with medicine, that in
eveiy country the fathers ot this science
liave devoted a share of their attention to
it, and have generally been its greatelt or
naments. 1 a»i not a phyfictan, but llill I
know the names of Caefulpiaus, Boerhaave,
Holler, Sauvages, Linne, Cuilen, Knhn,
and many otitis, than whom medicine
knows no higher names.
With regard to his second objedt, I a n
confident that I do not err in affecting that
Mtditut is ft'll more unfortunate. He
-alls into question the science of Dr. Bar
ion ; but his assertions are certainly lome
thing very different from convidtion, and
'rom truth. As I have the happinef. of
being intimately acquainted with this gen
tie man, I can speak to his talents and his
worth. In the circle of a very extensive
acquaintance, I do not know one man o.
the age of t*zueniy-nme, wnofe icienc is
more general, and at the fame time so tru
ly correct and profound, To a memory
as vast as that of a Crichton or a 3 rvin,
lie a<jds a gmrus florid and acute, and a
judgment accurate and ilrong. Even his
taite for the fine arts and his acquaintance
with literature, upon which h» prides him
felf not, would give refpedtahihty to the
name of a much older man. Lot me add,
that to all these b'etT. gs and endowments
he joins an aftonilliing peifeverance in liu
dy, and an almost unlimited _ enthuiiafm
(or science, which will not fail to condu&
him to consequence in life.
It is not merely the names of plants and
animals, or the places which they occupy
in the system of this or that pihilofopher,
with which Dr Barton is acquainted.
With the philosophy and properties of
plants ; with the tlrudture, the functions,
and ceconomy of animals, he is, if polTible,
Hill more intimately conversant, In the
walk of his profeffion, he received very
early and diftingnifl ed honours, and in the
com'.ildl of its pradtice, I know him to be
not lels tender and affedtionate than he is
indefatigable in its itudy, and ambitious
to advance its limits
Tt is a melancholy circumstance to fee
superior merit neglected ! It enraptures
the foul of a good man to behold the in
gtnious, the learned, and the virtuous
bursting through the numerous difficulties
of early life. Dr. Barton is not neglected.
His friends learn with pleasure, and his
enemies with pain, that in proteffional
and in fcientifia reputation, none of his
countrymen are likely to Hand higher.
I have the honor of corresponding with
feme of the Dolor's foreign friends.
Their letters, which, if it were necessary,
I could produce, are the molt unequivo
cal and ;':v>p(e t-'ftimonials of his merits in
neural Inilory. I (hall take the liberty
of subjoining part of a letter which 1 late
ly received from a foreign Jjrofelfot- oi
jrreat learning. I have tranllated it at
literally as 1 am able from the orig rial
Latin in which it was written. " I re
joice to fiiid that America, at length,
pofleffes a naturalid whose genius and
industry are to enlighten his country.
Happy ! thrice happy youth ! to be 1<
favorably fitinted in the centre of ar,
empire on which nature has so benevo
lently bellowed her choicest gifts. I
have received from the Dodtor his Flo
rttla PennfytDanira, in mannfeript ; and 1
Ihall not fail to find for if place in the
memorrs of the academy* Although he
modestly calls his paper a Floru/a, ye:
in the tie* information which it contains,
and in utility, it is milch more ample
than many of the largelt Flora. Tht
great attention which he has devotee
to the -correction of the chara&ers of the
North-American Genera ; his found fenft
in difcr'minating species ; his very cu
rious refearchea into the aboriginal names
nf the plants he describes ; his remark:
concerning the uses of thefc vegetables m
medicine, in diet, and in the arts, difcovei
mind impregnated with the spirit of a
Linne, and will not fail to give an highly
refpeitable rank among botanical philoso
phers. The preliminary discourse is a
eompofition of a very iup-erior kind : eve
iy page of it discovers the talent of the
philosopher, and the taste of the man ol
letters. In my opinion, it is one ot the
most finifhed eflays in the science '
To vind-cate the character of an amia
ble and ingenious man, when iniulted by
:ovtrt bafenels cannot bat afford pleafurt
:o a virtuous mind. As to myfelf, len
iy no fatisfaction greater than that oi
hewing, upon all Occafiotis, my regard
Tor a man of genuine worth.
Before I conclude, I think proper tc
declare two things, tuft, that I am neither
i phyiician nor a native of Pennfylrania ;
and fecondiy. that Dr. Barton is entirely
ignorant of the steps which I have thus ta
ke 'in his behalf. I preinme that he will
r.at think it neceffarv to answer Msdtcusy
A Friend to real Merit'.
Phila. Odtob. 26th. -
~
"Jfench Affairs-
Parts, Aug. to.
A letter from Boston, in New-England,
nake- mention of the murderous battles be
:ween the Anglo-American-: and lavages of the
.veftern frontiers ; and adds, that the Am:iic-ins
ire much d fauieted on account of the hostilities
jftkiT-tribes. Among thefcinvetorate chiels
lierr is one named Squallecutta ; the least oi
wliofe'woids are so minylaws; and who exa£; ;
'rora every one a mo'f despotic obedience.--
There are alio lome other chiefs whoare great
y dreaded by the Americans ; particularly,
tufkegarchee, or the vcung bull ; Tinkfliallom
jr the Black Fox ; and Taliokwajloh, or the
Bo'.d Lion ; who held a high iauk among the
Jetenr.incd ketoes ol the foteil, whom patrio
;ifm and a!« third of vengeance animate againf
:he inhabitants of the United States 1
14 —25. Translation of a letter
handed among the troops commanded b;
General La i'avette, previous to his depar
ture frofn th'e French lervice :
" Citizen Soldiers.
"It is no longer time to conceal from
you what is going forward ; the constitu
tion you ("wore to maintain is no more ; a
banditti from Marfeiiles, and a troop of
factious men besieged the palace of the
Thnilleries ; the naf'onal and Swiss guards
made a vigorous refinance, but for want of
ammunition they were obiiged to furren
:ler.
" General d'AfFrey, hisaid;-'.!e-camp, and
his whole family were murdered.
" The king, queen, and all the royal fa
mily escaped to the national afi'embly ; the
factious ran thither, holding a sword in one
(land and the fire in the other, and forced
the legislative body to ftiperfede the king,
wliicii was done for the fake of saving ins
life.
" Citizens —you are no longer represent
ed ; the national assembly are in a state ot
(lavery ; 'yotir armies are without leaders:
Pethion reigns ; the favaoe Dalton and hi>
f«.te|»itcs ase iiialiers. Thus foldiers,it is
your province to exami-ne whether you will
iefto.e tile lierecbtary repreientative to the
throne, orfubmit to the disgrace of having
,1 pethion for your king.''
STATE OF PARIS.
This great capital is perfectly calm, tho'
patriot'ifm wk* never kr.e'.vn to be lb much
alive ; it is the welcome guest of every ho
nest heart; there is no, not even the (mail
ed,appearance of the late crisis ; all is har
mony, concord and peace. The play-hon
les are open ; commifTaries, men of literary
talenis, have been appointed by the variotj3
lections to read over and examine the new
pieces, before they are introduced to the
pbblii eye'.
Almost all the theatres have given a be
rrcnt for the relatives of such as expired
gloriously on the roth of August—the ne
ver-tOTbe-forgotten iocli of Atlgnft ! Tha
ariflocrars and loyalists are alone in a state"
of anxious solicitude ; some of them trem
ble ; many of them are machinating plots
of which, as usual, they will become the
devoted victims.
Several houses have been thrown down
in the neighbourhood of the royal refi
dcnce. The inhabitants h.-.d offered imjtrf
tifbble inftilts to Louis XVI. and his fami
ly as they walked for air in the garden. —
The municipality destroyed the effe&s by
rooting away the cause- Now when the
king walks in the garden, all the workmen
tmployed in digging the foffe have orders
to retire. He is only accompanied by a
muaicipal officer ; the imperial blood of
Aiitoniette cannot bear to be fide by fide
with a tradesman of Paris : she fignifies her
rlifcontent-by her looks ; but the tradesman
Joes his duty, and walks cheek by jowl with
:he daughter of the Gefars.
Nobody is differed to leave tke temple,
:he guards excepted, without being lear
ned.
Louis is as careless and fat as usual. The
noting prince is as lively as ever ; the pretty
nnocent never committed a crime; he
loes'not know what remorse is. May he
De always equally ignorant of vice and its
:ancamitant evils. 1
Wq just hear, that MarTlial Luckneir has
efigned his command. We do not take
.ipon otirfelves toaffertir as a fact, but we
hink it more than probable.
Meflrs. A. Lameth and LaTour-Mau
>ourg, snd all the Raff-officers of the army,
aave followed La Fayette.
M. La Tour-Manbourg was one of the
members of the constituent assembly ho
"ent to Varennes to bring back the fugitive
king.
There is not a flcady, impartial friend to
:he fiiblime cattle ot freedom, but grieves
r.ofl sincerely for rhe very unpleasant al
ercations which lately took place between
.he legislative body and M. La Fayette, and
.vhioli ended in the emigration of that
,'oung general.
His excellency loi"d Gower is still de
atned in Paris. He cannot proctfe his
saflports for himself and his attendants. —
The present is a tempestuous moment, and
rtiquette mnft be laidafide. His excellen
:y had declared he had not a French fer
ant in his suite. Lord Gower it seems,
ias been very liberal in g.iving pafTports to
French peoDle. The assembly do not ap
prove of such onrcioufnefs.
State of Europe, lu'.th refpefl to France.
The secretary for foreign affairs rose, and
;ave the following state of Europe.
Sweden. That kingdom had already tef
ified pacific intentions. Government rc
'ufed to enter into the league against
France. Several Swedifli officers wifted to
je employed in the French service. The
■egency made proposals for a commercial
ntercourfe.
Rujfia That empire never concealed its
loftile views; but it could only threaten
Franc# for a loi'g time to come.
The fouthem Courts were in the fame cafe.
The German Empire was combined against
France.
Holland That republic promised the
11 oft perfeit neutrality. The Dutch am
baff.idor remained in Paris.
Great-Britain- That empire profeffed cx
neutrality. The Britilh ambaifador had
orders from his court to quit France ; but
nothing hostile was iufinuated in the man
date. The Englifti government observed
to him, that as the executive power had
been taken out of the king's hand, his cred
entials were no longer valid or of any ef
fect ; and that it was hi duty to withdraw
without loss of time. His British majefly
continues perfectly neuter,but did not think
he would invade that neutrality, by de
manding that the lives of Louis XVI. and
his family (hotild be protected. He ex
pected that no violence would be offered to
tlieir persons, as that would awake the in
dignation or dil Europe. Authorized by
t lie executive power ad interim- the secre
tary for foreign affairs had written to the
English ambaifador and teftiiied how much
the French desired to continue in amity
with a great people, who were the firft to
acknowledge the sovereignty of nati
ons.
Marshal Luckner has proved himfelf un
worthy of the confidence placed in him by
a free and generous nation ; his very versa
tile conduct for some time past appeared
more than suspicious ) and the patriots who
blazoned forth his 'pretended virtues, have
now to blufli for their extreme credulity.
We have fcen him alternately lavifli his
blame and- commendations on la Fayette;
submit to the will of that fc'neming young
general, or follow the r.dvice of the firll
who hazarded an observation to him ; andafterwards complain of the ptvfons whb
were about him ; he was the grand and
sole cause of the diffencions that prevailed
in his army. After having written to the
legislative body, and protested he was the
sincere friend of French liberty, hefpoke to
his army in quite d.uerent terms ; he got
upon horseback and rode thro' the ranks,
lamenting the misfortunes of Louis XVI.
and wilhing for his refioration ; he even
added, tint the horse he then rac'e was a
present made to him by the good kins.
It Was hard to think, indeed, that mnn,
whose foil had a command in the Imperial
army, and who had very ccnndei able land
ed property in Germany himfelf, would
fight against the emperor. For which rea
son lie always proved himfelf a time-ser
ver. He was a democrat or a loyalist, ac
cording to place, time, and circumstances.
It was evident, from the fluctuation and
incertitude of his principles, ti. it he had no
leading charafler ; that he obeyed the im
pulse of the momeat; and, in fiiort, that he
was infinitely better calculated to com
mand a flying camp of Hullans, than to di
rect the operations of an army of free
Frenchmen.
The Imperialists and Pruffinns begin to
infect our frontiers, and commit every kind
of depredation. Several French detach
ments attack and repel them. They seem
at once to threarcn Thionvilie, Movenwic,
and Longwy. Our army is becoming more
f.) rnndable everyday: reinforcements are
Pouring in upon us without interruption :
patriotism cannot fwcll higher in even
breift.
Paris, Aua;- 25. The former {lately pa-
I*e of the Thuilleries, is nearly a wreck;
there is question of levelling it to the earth,
that the dwelling of so many tyrants may
no longer offend a free people. a:'d put
them in mind of the (hackles which galled
them for so many centuries.
Yefterdav evening between five and fix
o'clock, M. La Porte, '.are keeper of the pri
vate purse, condemned by thefpecial tribu
nal to be beheaded on the Rjliate of Carou
zel, underwent his sentence in presence of
a:: imiaenfr croud of fpeCtators-.
1 he jury, after a trial of four and twen
ty hours, convicted him of having made an
improper use of the civil lift, in order to
foment a eivil war.; it appeared evident
ly on his trial, that he h#ul hired incendiary
writers, whose poisonous productions ten
dered to defeat the exertions of all the
friends ofliberty.
■M. la Porte went fothe block with a for
titude and refohition worthy of a better
and more just cause. He however, de
clared his innocence to the last ; but the
written proofs produced in court, are inde
libte leftimocies of his guilt and perfidy.
M. la Porte was turned off fifty. He
wasdreffedin a new suit of silk clothes,
• aud appeared as much unconcerned as if he
was going to the levee of his late mafier.
I he common courfcil of this capital dur
ing M. Bailly's Mayoralty, hud ordered a
medal to be {truck in honour of Genera]
la Fayette. M. Duvivei'. a distinguished
young artist, was cotjlmHTlbneU to execute
it. But 1111 willing to perpetuate the blast
ed fame of the fugitive General h? yester
day laid before the council.his unfiiufhed
work. The C.council ordained that the
e.figv of the hers of bi/th Hevufpkeres fhouid be
Jolemnly dallied to the ..ground. 011 St Louis's
day (the titular Saint of France) 25th Au
gust, at 10 o'clock in the morning, on place
de Greve ; and that the ceremony fhonld
be performed by the executive power, alias
Jack Ketch.
St. Genevieve, the patroness of Paris,
has been lifted from 'her niche. She is
now in the church of St. Etienne du Mount,
where in all probability {he ir, condemed to
work no more r.ureales-, the old devotee. pre
tend thi?t ihe has not had a dry eye {ince (he
has been pnt iuto the church. She will ad
mit of no coafuitation.
Mcubeuge Aug. 2r —Col, Dampierre, at
the head of a detatchmcnt of 300 men,
marched against a party of Imperialists,
ported at the bridge of Solte, though it
rained so violently the whole night, that
above 100 loldiers loft their {hoes in the
heavy roads; the detachment marched 3
leagues in 3 hours ; and appeared in the
presence of the enemy at the break of day.
Were it not fdr the impetuous r.rdour of
30 dragoons, that were ported to cut oflt
the enemy's retreat, the French infantry
would have been fnrroinded and taken.
The imperia,! huflars owed their lives to
the fwiftnefs of their horses. The col.
fearing that his wet and weary troops
fliould catch cold ftandipg {till, returned
to camp by the right bank of the
Sambre, after having rleflioycd agreat
' : the bridge.
trajburg, Aug. 20. A Prullian army,
fuppoi ted by a body of £000 Aultriaiis, is
marching towards Thionvilie. Another,
re-inforced by 12,000 French emigrants, is
proceeding to Saar-Louis.
Both coliimns consist of about jo,ooc
men. It fee ins to be their plan to divide
them into two bodies; one third of which
is to besiege the two above mentioned pla
ces, while the main army attempts to enter
France. They are confident that thoti
'andt of French male-cojiteills will Hock to
hsirftaiKlaid.
fh? 53,000. thers is a 1 corps di
reserve* of 12,000 men for each column, a
at about fevtm leagues from the main ar
my. Another body of emigrants, fupport
edby near 4000 Auflrians, is advancing to
wards the Duchy of Deux-Ponts. Tin
troops in the Palatinate.have orders to fol
low the fame plan, but in different direc
tions.
Extraftsfrom French papers,
Florence ? July 30. —The Tuscan gqvfirnmen
has formally reprimanded a certain poet, whe
in reciting a poem in latin at an academical ex
hibition, had the aflurance to give his Opiniot
on the present situation of France, and the
war (be is now engaged in. The licenser o
publications has also heen threatened with lofinj
his pb.ee if he, in future, fuffers any thing o
the like kind to be either spoken in public 01
committed to ihe press.
M. Salinas, minifler plenipotentiary of bp'air
to this court, and nephew of Count Florid;:
Blanca, is recalled. His million, in the time
ps Leopold and the late empress Maria Louifz
(infantaot Spam) was considered is. merely ho
norary. In future the court of Madrid will
only support a fmgle resident itl Tufcany.
This will be M. Gardoqu"', (on of the miniiler
of finance, now in the family of the Spaniftvam
baffador at Vienna, who h in waitngat Florence
for the appointment.
Stockholm, Aug. $, il Tfie revolution in
France has drawn upon that nation the hatred
ol despots, because it has exposed the pietend
ed jure divi/iatigbt of kings to gOvern the world
and published to' mankind the cruelty and un
natural tendency of that mode of domination ;
which has, in fa£i, been nothing more, than en
abling a certain irvf-gnificant part of our fpeciei
to trampla. under foot the whole human race.
|The despotic powers have also another motivt
of revenge. They find thev are losing the pri
vifege they have long enjoyed, that of bein£
confidercd the geds cf the earth. To those
however, who are so far enlightened as to be
flow a moments reflexion upon the weal of in
dividuals and nations at large, the revoluiior
in France mufifeema blefiing. However wc
fitiay be represented by the minions of the courl
it were to be wished thai the world could know
that the Swed sb nation entertain the fubhmefl
sentiments and the molt regard for tin
people of France, in re-assuming the rights o
man after so many ages of galling servitude
They are indeed a great nation—we feel sensi
bly for the combination that threatens them
and We think it the duty ofevery friend to" vir
tue to eonfecrate his talents and experience tc
forward the emancipation of his fellow? creatures
who arc ft'ruggling under oppreflive govern
ments. In this view of things, there are multi
tudes in Sweden who are devoted to the cauf<
of France, and would freely peri Hi in her de
fence—Animated by such opinions, educatet
from, the days of infancy in the arts of war, thej
arc readv to offer their services to the gttflah
nation of the modern Gauls. Many of ou
brave officers are, it is true, irv tha combine<
armies; but firrcc they begin to know therr def
tination, their fpiins droop; their commission
they dilregard ; and are panting for a fervict
more congenial to their wiflies; to haileri tin
Call 'of tyrants, and in quitting their country
contribute what is in their power to the pohti
cal salvation of mankind yi
Stockholm, Aug, io- There are not a fevt
yho are weak endugh to fuppole that the recto
ration of the French A'obl'Jfe is an object will
the Empress of Rufiia to go to war with that na
tion. Theie is no doubt but flie would wil
lingly fee defpotilm in France, in all itsvigoui
but even this would not alone induce her t<
take an a£live part in the combination of defpo
tjc powers. Her favourite plan, which Che Vf
Verfofes figbt of is to reign sole mistress of tin
north, and to drive the '] urks out of Europe
Hence, flic supposes, tf.at by kindling die flame
of war irt the south, and by forwarding, al l fh<
Can; a war that (hall engage the attention of tfo
powers, whose strength and ambition migh
form serious obflacles to her designs, fiie will b<
enabled the more eafilv tofucceed in her pro
je&s. The affiM ance of Sweden was what Hit
wish d aboveal! things to en fare fucctffs in hci
plans; and this hope it was that patched up jc
haftya peace with Gullavus the 3d. notwrth
ftdnding so many ancient causes ol grudge.—
The unexpe&ed afTaflination of this monarch
not a little deranged her proje&s ;• and there i:
little or no appearance that her party will eve
again predominate in Sweden. The duke re
gent has turned his upon the piefling feli
ciauons of the empiefs, and declared that th<
prelent situation of Sweden would not allow anj
troops to be fentagainft France.
r For the National Gazbttb*
Mr. Frenea'u,
I SAW a piece in Wednesday's Gazette
Peter Plagiary—the work, I dc
suppose, of one of our young Doctors oi
medicine, together with the united efforfs
of a (Indent of medicine, who it is probable
will attempt to graduate in this tiniverfit)
the enfuingfpring.
In their fanres they have paid very little
regard to relpeftfor one of oOr highest men
in the medical department- of fcieuce. B>
their writings it is plainly to be seen the)
are but young dabblers launching out for
applause ; but they have loft it in this in
fiance—for the eminence of Dr. Adam
Kuhn is too well known to the world to be
in the lea't depreciated by Peter PiagiarjL
or any of his colleagues,
A oa. 26-. P.
P.II ILADELPHIA,
October 27.
John Taylor, Esquire, is el fled a fena"
tor, to represent tile Hate' of Virginia in
the senate of the United Slates, in the
mom of the Hon. Richard Henry Lee,
Esquire, resigned.
The armv tinder genetal Wavne had
not yet gone down the river Ohio, fiom
Pittfburg, on the 4th of O&ober ; the
water being so low as to prevent their
paflag-. It is p' obable, therefore, that
the operations of the troops will be retard
ed to a tedious and laborious winter cam
-3 lign.
Mr. William Longftreet, of Aiignftain
Georgia, has lately completed tie model
}f a hew invented (learn engine, calculated
or moving all kinds of heavy machinery.
This engine is so conftru&ed and applied
:o saws, as to perform from forty to forty
ive llfofc.es with each in a minute, without
he complication of wheels, cogs, 01
ranks its operations are managed
iy a Angle cock The inventor asserts that
[lis machine-,)' may be so applied as to
150 bushels of grain per day, or saw
2000 feet of inch boards in the fame time.
Abf.Taß of European news. in addition to that un
der ourforeign heads.
It had beeji discovered that the king had
borrower! iipmetife sums ofmdney to (up
port his rebel brothers and their criminal
adherents: above 20 banters in Paris, it
was expe.led would fail in consequence ;
:he king'sdebts amr>u. J t'ns;tr> at least
livres—Upwards of two tlioufar.d men were
?mployed in fortifying the tmver of the
:emple wliere the king is confined—Gene
ral <le !a Fayette had prevailed 011 a very
"mall part of his armv to swear not to a-
Jandon him or the king—on the 2:d. of
August a member of the National Aflem
aly proposed, that as the greater part of
"h« £ igiifh prints appeared to be hired by
the court party to blacken and vilify the
French revolution, thit therefore " a fra
:ernal address (hould be sent to the Britidi
nation/ discovering the whole cotrfpiracy
as the traitor Louis the 16th, aiid all the
:>utraa:?s that caused the iftfurreitiori on
:he 10th of Augurt ; and that the said ad
irefs be particularly tranfinitted to all the
popular societies in Britain and Irelandt
with a request to have it reprinted and cir
culated through the British empire. This,
it was thought too. would contribute great
ly to eradicating ariltocracy and
from England, and hasten the gran<l revolu
tion of Europe—The proportion was un
animotifly adopted. The family of Gen.
Fayette had embarked privately for Eng
land at Havre, and arrived there fafe.—
Almost all the towns in France of any
consequence had exprefied their entire ap
probation of the proceedings of the Nati
onal assembly, and the armies of the nation,
except a very few retainers to Fayette and
the king, were unanimous and determinec'
on the fide of the people—no doubt re
mained of Fayette's treachery, who was
in fait holding a correfpolidence with the
king to introduce the Austrian and Prufiian
armies into the heart of the kingdom
France, was now in effefl no other than
an immense republic, royalty execrated
throughout, and the great body of the peo
ple unanimous inputting a final concltifi
;>n to the reign of k:ngs in that country,
iTkI fupportipf the cause of liberty to- the
iaiL drop of their blood
Oi# th E Indian WAR.
That a prosperous slate of credit is apt
~>rt nations, as on individuals, fometimesto
work ill effe£t% by leading tlieiti into hazar
dous and Unprofitable adventures, the fub
iect we arc conlidering fufSciently evinces ;
oefore the restoration of the finances of tile
anion all was peace or if it was. dilturb'd
by any temporary and fugitive alarms,
they fiibiided, by the necefiity of foibear
ance oiMhe one fr.'e, or of moderation on
the other 1 but 110 sooner was money plen
ty, than war fohows on its heels; instead
of cultivating peace every where,retrench
ing expenses, and paying off o-tir debts, —
the couiitrv i% as it were suddenly, and 1 by
surprise, kivoived in a new war, and heavy
a war, wholly unprofitable
in-its object, and hopeless as to its success/
for what is the object of it ? To extirpate
the Indians, as it would be ilnhumnne, (V,
it would be without benefit to us ; and as
to compelling them to an honourable peace
little is to be expected from a treaty, dicta
ted by fo-rce orv one fide, and neceifity on
the other; were any treaty capable of coun
tinuance with a wandering herd, subject to
continual warfare, offenlive or det'enfive
with the frontier settlers, it is hopeless <is
to its success,- for what armaments can pe
netrate rc\Mons comparatively unknown,
topurfue an'eriemy thatflies as you advance
unless he fees a fair otcalion to strike deci
sively, in a country without resource to
cttr troop: in cafe of a misfortune.
To have formed an efFeflual barrier am
our borders, ruul limited our territorial pof
ftrfiions within the just bounds, vvotlfd at
once have kept botlv the settlers and the
Indiansin awe, and woukl have ascertained
the hitherto unknown limits of our purftrts;
war might thus have been avoided, and the
country have been left to ptirfue that paci
fic system, by which alone its public credit
can be supported, and its debts be honour
ably extinguiihed, hue then haw many offi
ces h#d been wanting, how many lucrative
contrasts would have been lol>, and how
great a wAste of money would have been
prevented TV</m flowing into the coffers of
those. concerned in this bullnefs ?
If this war continues, it is eaiy to fay its
expenditures will be growing and it will
prove sregular and con'lant ctrpiu upon the
treasury, very little calculated to enhance
its credit ,• to fay nothing of the discourage
ment it affords to Europeans to conle into
this country, engaged in a ruinous war
fire : many of them are prevented by it
from visiting in, Our lauds fliffer in the sale,
by being conceived to be the bane of con
test, and the nations of the earth ex
claim againtt the injnftice of a people, un
able to cultivate u hat ground they have,
(till panting after more.
Let it be the study then of the pfople, is
their sleftions,- to' shooft those men to re
present them that may lay the axe at the
root of this evil, men of fucti patriotism,
independence, and dilintereftednefs, as
anxious above all things to fecuie their
own rights, ulay be at the remotest distance
from invading those of others ; thus the
poorlndia-i may become faff in the hunting
grounds alotted him ; and ihe country en
joy a dignity, credit and peace proportion
ate to thewifdom and integrity us its viewr.
*** The present number of the Nati
onal Gazette (to4*l completes one year's
papers. Such fubferibers as are in ai rears
tor fix months or upwards, are earnestly
reqnefted to discharge their refpcotive
balances withfol: delay. In future, fix
fijomJiv advance wili be expected at the
time of fubferibing, andthe remaining half
years fabferi prion at the commencement
it the following fix months. Aavertife
ments not exceeding one square inferred
the firft time for 50 cents ; for every fub
fequenl infertio'n 20 ceriti
the National Gazztte-
J
Mr. FreneAu,
ON perusing your paper of Wedr>M'iy
the 24th iuft. I found a piece signed
Medicus : on reading it I perceived it con
tained infiiniation«, which if they were true, ,
u'ould totally destroy the medical charac
ter of Dr. Barton, at whom it is chiefiv
; but, fir, I beg leave to inform you
that the author of Medicus was au inter
ested man, and a man who has plainly pro
ved that some private pique has been the
cause of his thus publicly attempting to
traduce the character of a gentleman, who
has always diltinguifhed himfelf as a man
worthy the countenance of the world. Me
dicus infniuates that Dr. Barton was author
of the letter, the extract of which was pilb
lifiled in New-York and republilhed in Phi
ladelphia. On this part of the Aibjeft I
thai! not fay more than that Dr. Barton's
acquaintance, I believe, are too well' con
vinced of his honor to think he would
be guilty of so base an act. I hope the
'■aufe of Medicos'? appearing in print, was
not *' because Dr. Barton denied to pub
lish in the Gazette that he was not the au
thor of the above letter." I believe that
was net the sole cause which actuated Me
dicus to take up the cudgel: ] believe, as I
said bstore, that the cause chiefly was a pri
vate pique, and thought thereby to traduce
the character of a man whom he envies, be
cause probably he may be a little superior in
rank. Knvy, Mr. Medicus, may be carried
to great length's, as it has been by you in
this instance, and without any other known
cause.
For my part, I am surprized to fee the
name or title of Medicus, to so scurrilous a
piece, as well scurrilous as
I am convinced you cannot have any pre
tentions to what you stile yourfelf—l am
perfaaded you are nothing in ore than bot
tle-wafuer or bark-pounder to some medi
cinal wasre-houfe.
I would not have you to think, Mr. Fre
neau, that I am anywise interested in this
bufirrefs ; I have not the pleasure of either
of the gentlemen'? acquaintance ; the mat
ter was Rated to me plainly by a difinter
efled person. By publishing these few lines,
you will much oblige your's,
Oft. 25. A Calm Olj erver.
TO THE PUB L IC.
THE real author of she letter concern
ing the medical lectures which has called
forth the animadverlions of MEDICUS
[fee National Gazette of I't Wednefda.v7
having waited upon the p'inter, declares
upon the word of a gentleman l , that it was
neither Vfritteh nor dictated by Dr. Bir
ton ; that gentleman neitherfaw nor knew
the contents of the letter, and was totally
ignorant it had been written, until copied
from the New-York Jourral into the Vai
ly Adviritfrr of this city.Sjrnt particulars relative to Kentucky, and. other
interior part if America. [ by Mr. I,ML AY,
jhtMlfy of AW JerJty l
EN rUCKY produces, b=(»des tobacco, all
.fix, th: ditfirent kind* trf grain, which 1 have
jcK,<i»cu, in the upper fcttletnent ; a-tl the trairs
with the aJJiciun of apricots and ne£tarine3; these
and peaches jjrow here to very great perfe&ion,
particularly \«h?n planted upon a <i>il, which
»uiJ .rlvays be th'* cafe wh'in it ca lbe found ;
but however extraordinary it rmy appear, it is not
often the cafe in this dii)ri& of cuuntry.
Those culinary plants, vtr-jeCjWeS, U . I have
before enumerated are produced in (he whole
wetyern country. In f-»m: part 3 they grow tu
greater perfect;,n than in others, as in this the
cucumber, turnips, pea;, and many others ar
much finer than I ever taw them any where
heRJe. The cantilope melon is only to be equal
led c,y thjf- in K'rlia. Vft are not at the trouble
and expence of forcing. Every thing put into 'th"
ground of the vegetibie kind, grows in a moil
wonderful manner.
The . -.i is ii.iconmonly favourable to hemp
arj iod'Jo corn. I have known It cwt. of th:
former produced frum an acre of ground, and ai
r.-.uch as lao bufjiels of the latter. This has noi
been dole from an uncommon fertile fpo: ;
tat there i:t larger bodies of land adjoining, whicl
are erualiy ' praliftc. I believe, that, Were I tr
n -, .u j:>-i an 2 v-^ra^ j ihe produce of the who i:
jet■untry, i: would be foini to be nearly as fol
loAS .-
•Hemp per acre 800 c«h
Indian com, Or male, ditto 60 buflid
W uat, ditto 30 ditto
Farley, ditto 4d ditto
Oats, ditto S°
Clover and timO'thy jjrafs ditto 25 cwti
Belidcs i.emp and flit tor , manafaftvirmg, cot
ton is cultivated with canSdsrjble success, parti
cularly in the southern parts of the state am
Cumberland j and, no doubt, in ft few years
when our settlements extend to the Nachez, cot
ton will be produced in as great perfection as ii
the Eall or Weft-Indies. N > foil or climate cai
be mJre congenial to this p-lant than the region
of the lowermoll parts of the Miflifippl. W.
have it in our power to promote the c kit lire of lili
alio. The mildncfj of the climate and the grea
quantity of the mulberry ttees, which are ever;
where in ourforerts, readers (hi
matter extrem-iy eafv ; but how far this will b<
politic, when the use of iilk.is going out of fa.lii
on, is a matter that requires foms confederation,
Cotton has supplied its place, and its superior ex
celfer.ee, I apprehend, will ahvaya make it amort
profitable manufactory.
The growth of wool will form an importan:
coniideration with us. The plains I have de
scribed, extend quite to the mountains, so tha
iheep he-e may have eveTy advantage which tht
flocks of, Spain enjoy. If we can form any idea
irb.n th,-lamplis of waol produced in many part!
of the country, we may cortclude that our mod
sanguine expectations will be fully answered.
The buffalo are mostly d.-ivenout of Kentucky.
Some are Itili found upon the head waters 01
i'eking creek, Great Sandy, and the head waten
of preen river. Dee,- abound in the exte.nlivjt
fore-is ; but the eIK confines itfeff rrtoftly to th;
Jbilly and uninhabited places.
"the rapidity of the settlement has driven tht
wild turkev quite out of the middle countries, bui
they are found in large Hocks in all our extenfivt
woods.
Amidst the mountain? and broken countrie'
are great numbers of the grouse I have d-fcribed :
and lince the fettleracnt has been eftabliflied, tlw
quail, by following the trail of grain which is ne
cessarily fcattersd rhrnigh the wilderness, has mi
grated fc-on( the old ftttlertients on tbe other fiJt
the mouoSfin, and has beiorn: a cnn.lant resident
witb us. This bird was unknown hereon the
firit peopling of tbe country.
There is a variety of wild fowl in every part 0
thisfta'e, particularly the teal, and the fummer
duck. The latter breeds with us. Its incuba
tion is always in temperate cli nates, which is tht
reason of irs being called the summer duck.
The nroduftions of Cumberland are nearly th;
fame aj'thole of Kentucky. The quality of to.
bacco is perhaps something better ; but the cli
mate being considerably warmer, it is not so fa
vourable to wheat and bar ley, nor does grass grow
there so luxuriantly as with us.
The country below Cumberland soon becomei
war.cn enough for indigo and r|#e ; and perhap*
these articles, in a few years, will he cultivated
on the MifiiCippi with as much success, if no',
more,'than they ever were in South-Carolina 01
Georgia.; particularly the former, as the foil on
the Miffifippi, is infinitely more luxurimt than
any whatever in the Garolinas. Someeflays wert
made in this bufmefs, previous to the late war j
but the object was abandoned in the deltruflion
of the settlement I mentioned in a former letter,
made below the Natchez-
Orangts, and other tropical fruits, grow it tht
Natchez, and fame distance above, to confidey
ble perfection.' There are a variety of nuts which
grow both i i Kentucky and Cumberland, some
of which »re common to bath ; the molt remark
able of which is the pacane i but as they have
all been noticed, both by Caiver and JeffeWon, I
Ciall refer you to them for their particular def-
Criptions and properties. Grapes, plumbs, goof,
berries, and ilrawberries, grow also fpontaneoull)
in the fiuthem parts ®f Kentucky and in moll
parts of Cumberland.
' The produce of the western country will b<
nearly the >a»e in tbe parallels of latitude
f-hrou»hoUt, <b that comparing my imaginary
states, with the fettled country south-east of th<
Ohio, you will be able to form a just idea of wha'
thev will be capable of producing. But to com
prehend the objefl of the commerce of this coun
try, it is lirft m-ieffary to contemplate it, abound
ing in all the comforts of life, limited in its vari
e ry of climate only by what is not desirable ; witt
a foil so prolific, a navigation so cxteufive, and ;
lecurity f® permanent from being inland, that i
seems this vast extent of empire is only to bi
equalled for its sublimity but by tbe object of it!
randizement.
tobacco, 4nd raw materials willcon
flitute tiie firlt articles of our trade. Suchs
t|U2n?U,y of beer*, pork, bacon, Hut' -r, che r fe,&c.
&:. might be furnirhed from this county as will
one day, no doubt, supply the Weft-India illanu?
and afford reJ.eflo the referable Chinese, whoft
Icanty portion of rice is only fufficienL to keep sou
and body together. Our mountainous country!
fjjjj I a-lwavs prove excellent ranges tor hrrds oi
cattie j thj grass, in the summer, affording futfi
:ient food to fa;:en them, without t'.-ie expeno: oi
cultivating meaiows, and the winters are feldo r
I'd live re as to require any other food tuao th«
c:ine and peavine.
The navigation of this couutry has been muct
talked of. The diitance from one place to
iher has been compared with some decree of ac
:uracy, and the various experiments which hav<
been ma<je confirm the opinion that its difficu-kj
is merely imaginary.
The common mode of descending the stream i:
in flat-bottomed boats, which may be built frorr
15 to 50-j toni burthen. But, as tar as I hav<
been able tojudge, I ihould tuppofe, that aboul
50 or 60 cons burthen would be the rnoft conveni
ent, wieldy and consequently fate, particular!)
.vhj ft the waters are very high, for in such cale!
[lie rap»dity of the current makes it difficult ti
mananje an unwieldy mat's with facility. Theft
Doats are built of oak plank, with a certain pro
j.ortion of breadth to their length, i. e. nearly as
1 1 feet to 4.0 j which will be a boat of nearly 4:
tons. They are covered or not as occasion muv
reunite. The objedk is to build thedi as cheap a
poltiblc, for their unwiei Jinefs prevents the po( ■
nbilitv of their returning, and they can only be
iold as plank'
Several of these boats letting out together) lei
us fuppc.fe 5, 10, 15, or 20, ot 60 tons burthei:
each, which would reunire each 6 hand* to navi
gatt" :hv-m. The boats theft of 60 tons each will
enaploy 6o hands, which will be equal to
up the ftrea.n 3 bjats of ; tons each, and which
would be more than fufficient to bring back the
cargo which th<e pi oduce of the ten boats vyouh
purchase ; as the articles we export ar.eg<ofs anc
bulky, while we want only in return fuperfinc
goods ; the coarler goods of every fort will always
be manufactured in the country. W«c also make
our own fait, sugar, spirits, malt liquor, and thai'
soOn make our own wine. These boats must be
worked up with steam and fails.
The invention of carrying a boat againtl the
stream by the influence of steam is a late im
provetflfnt in phi'ofophy, by Mr. Rumfey ot ,r "
ginia, whose ingenuity has been rewarded by tnat
date with the exclusive privilege of navigating
those boats in her rivers for io years ; and as this
wis given previous to the independence ot
Kentucky, the a£V of feparacion guarantees his
rigor. Some circumstance or other has prevented
his bringing them into use. However there can
be no doubt of the fuceefs of his scheme, for the
assembly of Vifg'nia had the most unequivocal
afiurances before they gave the privilege, in a cer
tificate signed by General Wafbmgton and Man
pjge Esq. setting forth that they had seen a boat
.vhich they believed to be conflra&ed by Mr.
Rumfey, ascend a stream without the aid ot ma
nual labour,but. without mentioning the operat
ing caufc, which has tince appeared to be fleam,
[f this principle fliould fail (and from such autho
rity 1 do not conceive how it is to be presumed ),
[ Hatter myfelf that philosophy is capable of fup
jlying the place in the appropriation ot some one
>f the fccrets with which mechanics abound.
in taking a retrofpeftiv-e view ot the world, we
are for a moment fur-priced when we recollect that
fume rhoufands ccf years had elapsed before print
ng was invented, aiid that the only way of ac
rucxiulat'rng the copies of art and genius was by
[he tardy method of transcribing j and that the
art of navigation was f«r nearly as long a time de
vious, and regulated by-no certain laws, the {tars
and head lands of different countries being the on
ly guides to the adventurous iTiariner who often
pcrithed when the heavens were obfeured. O lib
erty'! how many haft thou brought us !
man, in promulgating his opinions, now finds fe
purity under the wing* of an eftabiifhed freedom j
and the dismal dungeon which eclipfcd the lumi
nous mini of the celebrated Italian, would n»w be
into a -School for him to lecture in, instead
:>( a prison to bewail the miserable ignorance and
Jepravity of his fellow-creatures. Truth and rea
son have led to this melioration of manners, it
am 11 lead to more benefits to mankind .-—But
should we still be obliged to row our boats again(l
:he stream, it is not only practicable but ealy.
f The remainder in our next.]
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS
Ottebcr, 1792.
D. H. Bar. Ther. Wind. Wcatk,
Wednesday, 17. - 30. 15 47 IW. Fair.
2 30. 2 65 I do. do.
Thursday, 18. 7 29. 9 47 I W. Foggy.
2 29. £ 49 N.W. Raw.
Friday, 19. ? 30. 2 43 N. W. Fair.
2 30. 2 59 do. do.
Saturday, 20. 7 30. 1 4r S. E Fogg)
•2 30. C 64 do. Clouds.
Sunday, 21. 7 29. 6~ 56 I W. Cloudy.
- 29. 75 57 do. Fair.
Monday, 22. 7 30. 2 37 <N. W Fair.
2 3°- 2 <5 49 I d°-
Tut [day, 23. 7 I Fair.
2 I do.
Manufactured and for Sale,
At No. 11, NtrtJi Sixth~Jlr&ty
Fashionable Round Top and Flat
BUTTONS,
Warranted superior to any imported of
equal price.
Country Store-keepers supplied either in
i'mall or large quantities, By
s. POST & Co.
N.B. Conicfhel Button 6? Bucklcs, tic.
oa - '?• tavvtf
Ne-jj-Tori and Philadelphia
STAGES,
AND
Bordentoa, Burlington, and Trenton or
Lainberton
PACKET S.
THE proprietors of the .New-York and Phi
ladelphia Land and Water Stages, beg leave
to mention, tha: tor the better accommodation nf
;he paflicrng:r.s, they have removed ihe;r different
packet boa's from their former (land, ac the
Crook-d Billet Wharf, to the wharf or dock im
mediately next below j Ifrom whence
a convenient packet boat starts for New-York,
as usual, on every Sunday, Tuesday, Wednesday
and Thursday, and returns on ev?ry Tuef.lav,
Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The pafiage to
be made eitH-r by the way of Bordenton or Bur
lington 5 eaDli place taken alternately.
Fare for passengers from Philadelphia to New-
York - - 15 s -
For goods do. do. per cwt. 6|s.
odsVan Eittbtlrgh and M'Kean,
David Williamfun,
Proprietors of be line of New Tork and PhiUJfl
pbia Jlages, by the r <wt of Bordtntcrt*
Jacob Myers,
/imo3 Hutchin,
Nicholas Schenck,
Projtrietdrs of the line of Nov Tork and Philadel
phia Jlages, by the rout of Buriir.gtcn.
Bordenton, 0€t m U
For freight or pafl'age apply to the matters on
t>oard, or to
M'Kean and Van Emburgh J
Who have for sale at their store on said wharf,
immediately next below Arch-street,
0!e Madeira, ~j Muscovado, 1
Qp|H|eriffc, and Iwines. Loaf, and >Sugars
Mountain j Lump j
Jamaica Spirits, Molafles,
Antigua, 1 Coffee,
Monlferat & >RuM* Chocolate,
Newbury j Bohea Tea,
Kochelle Branuy Burlington Pork,
in pipes, cases and Hams,
demijohns, Flour,
Gin in pipes and cases, Bar Iron, &c. &c. &c.
Orders for Grain, Staves, Bills of ScantHli-gj or
Dther Lumber, punctually attended to.
Iffi* For freight or pafiage to Lamberton or
Kfljiton, apply at said wharf to Thomas Afh
moore, William Douglafs, John Afhipoorqijfl
Alexander Douglafs, (Mailers oa board) or as
above, to M'Kean Van Emburgh-
Philadelphia, Gftober 6, 1792-
TAKE iTo~f I C E.
WHEREASa mulatto man named LUKE>
the property of the fubfciiber living in
Accomack county, Virginia, ran away from
lion on the firft day of September lail, and was
•aken up and committed to the gaol of Newcaf
:le county, in the State of Delaware, on the 14th
day of September, where he remair.'d until the
4th of this instant, Oftcber, when a Mr. Jones,
who said tie livjed in Frederick Town, in the
county of Cecil, in Maryland, appeared and pro
duced a Benjamin Ferrufon, who made oath
that he suspected the faidflave to be a freeman,
named John Wright, who had failed with the
said Fergufon in a schooner belonging to the said
Jones, and had committed a burglary on boatd
of her in July last, in consequence of which the
said slave was delivered by order of the bon.
David Finney, a supreme judge of the said (late
Df Delaware, to the said [ones, to take his trial
for the said supposed offence. As lam fully
convinced from the description of the said
Have, given to me by the gaoler, that he is my
property, and that the said Feiuufouhas mistaken
him for Wright, I do hereby direS thelaid Mr.
Jones, and Fcrgufon, to return the laid slave to
the place from whence they took him, and to
inform me theieof, otherwise I (hall proceed
according to law.
JOHN CROPPER, Jun.
Oft. 16th. 1792. 2a.w.3w.
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. Oswald,
(Price Eleven Pence)
FIVE LETTERS,
addrefled to the
Yeomanry of the United States:
CONTAINING some Observations on the
Scheme of fVm, Duer Esq. and Mr Secreta
ry Hamilton, to eftabliih National Manufa<fture« ,
by a FARMER. This pamphlet, so highly in
teresting at this period, may be had at the follow,
ing places ; at Mr. Oswald's Printing- Office, No
156, Market-street j at No. 209, Market-street;
at Mr. Dobfon's, 41, South Second-street j at
Mr. Crukfhanks, 91, Maiket-ftreet j ac Mr,
Aitken's, 22, Mai ket-ftreet; and at Mr. Young's
S. W. corner of Chefnnt and Second-streets.
Autjuft 21.
NOTICE.
THIS is to'foiwarn all matters of veflels and
others, at rheir peril, not to lalce a certain
mulatto Boy, named JLewis Boget, formerly of
Cayenne, out of this city, he being lawfully bound
and apprenticed to me, untill 16th Nov. J
as I have reason to fufpeft he is endeavouring to
leave this city. JAMES ROB£RTSON.
O&ober 9. tf
THOSE gentlemen that yet remain poiffefled
of fu'ofcription papers of Howell's
Map, are hereby notified (as well also the public
in general) that no fubferiptions will be rec- v-vcg
vr accepted after the date hereof, and that rhey
be uleai'ed to tranfmic the said papers to the sub
fcriber as soon as Ufc opportunity llrall serve, as
:he Maps which are now received will be deliver
ed at his own houft in "Vorth Fifth-flreet,
delpjva. READING HOWELL.
Oft. is* 3 l
T 0 THE PUBLIC.
THE subscriber returns his mod refpe&ful
compliments to his friends, and the public
for the many favours he has received, and bfgJ
leave to inform them that he has upon hand, a
few4sne toned FORTE PIANOS, which he will
warrant superior to any imported, and which he
will dispose of on reasonable terms.
The great number of Forte Pianqs lately
imported from London and Dublin, induces the
subscriber to caution the public against the artful
insinuations of perfans, comunilhoned to vend
them, who for a very trifling compenfatiop re
commend instruments that are nothing but the
refufe of European music-shops, and imported ac
b'mere trifle, and fold for the fame price a3 a go©4
instrument, to the great disappointment of the ijj
nofrant purchaser, who generally pay as much lor
repairs in a year or two, as the original cost of a
good inftruroent.
N. 3. Musical instruments let «ut by tbe
month or quarter, Jikewife musical inftrumenti
tuned and repaired in the best manner, and on the
most icafonable terms, b^
CHARLES TAWES,
No. 60, Walnut near Third-rtreet.
October io. 4t
Terres & Vendre
Bars un pa'i\ b'ten peupic,—
S AVOIR, foixante cinq raille, troi6 cens, foix*
ante et quatorze Acres, en une feisle piece,
dans le canton le mieux people de la Caroline Me
ridioaale, leDlftti&de Ninny-Six, Ces terres
font fituees dans une contiee agreable, et falubre,
du les fievres fontinconnuesj a envirpn vingt
de Colombie, la Capitale, et continues ala
de Catnbtidge, &u il y a College, et Cour fuperi
eute» A environ douze lieue?, i 1 y a bonne navi
gation ; et il eft tres probable, que dans
tems on rendra navigable le Grand Saiud,c, riviere
qui arrofe les term mcmes. Elles font agreable
ment diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons charmanu
propres a la culture du tabac, du coton, du rra'is
et du petit grain ; et doot une proportion conquer
able fe pent aifement convertir en prairies ferliles*
il n'eft peut-etre gueres poflible de reocomrer une
pareilje piece de terre a vendre dans aucun autre
desEcats Unis jet pour les conditions de l'achat p
on les rendra trt;s commodes.
S'informer a I'itnprimerie de la Gaeptte Na
tionals. Sept. 5.
LANDS for SALE,
IN a «*)l fettled Country. SIXTY-FIVE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY-FOUR 4CRIS OF LAKD, io one
i>ody, in the most popuLooa part of the state of
South-Carolina, in of Ninety-fix—lt
s situated i*ia<fin£ healrhy djm^fjfreefxoxn fever
lc ag.ue,aboiit lSjcty miles Jrpm the feat
1 he land is .contiguous to the
:own of are a fcminary fpr the
hftrutfion of youth, and a superior l?w It
is at present within about thirfy-iive mites 0/jjcjjfl
navigation, with a profcabiJiry of having the rJ«r,'
railed the Great Saluoa, that £ows along one fide
A' the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
"ully diverfjfied into fwella and vales, and is per
reftly weal calculated for tfhr culture of
totton, Indian corn, and ftn*ll grain; a great
jropprtion of it may -be mirfe'meaxixtw ground..
There is nqt, perhaps, such a fyjdy
rumftanced, for Sale in any ether of the U.g ates*
The terms of pa-yment will be m-aJe convfp.ient t»
:he purchaser or purcha/ejj>. .Apply to the pdliters
August 29. J&wtt
New-Jersey Confiscated Lands.
WHLREAS the firft purchal-er did nti£
comply with tht conditions cf sole ;
his is to give notice ;hat the following tra& ot
and, containing fifty acres and thirty r.ine hun-
Iredths, ftri& measure situated io Hardifton town
hip, ne-ar tJie ro,id that leads from Elijah C-l
---ards, deceased, to Paulinikill, late tproperty
>1" Oliver Pe Lancey, vvil-be folii ar public v»?nd;je=
The sale to begio »n Weilnefday -the 28th day
)f Nowi-nber next, at 2 o'clock in the afrernoon
it suflex courthouse j and besides cash, the fuU
owing state obligations will be received in pay- i
Tient, to wit, — a::J soldiers r>otes givei>
or the depreciation of their pay — notes given to
he militia of this rtate for the arrearage? of their
iav—certificates liquidated by 5i1. 1 .? Cnndiet—and
lotes given by the Trcafurer of .this oate to per
ons who had demands against the confifcatfid
■llates of New-Jerfcy.
JOSEPH GASTON,
Agent for Sutiex county.
O&, 24, 1792. 4w.iaw.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale at the Printirrg-Office,
No. 20j, Market-Street,
md at Thomas Dobfon's Book-Store in
Second-Street,
Prtct Three-Eighths of a DeUar,
advice
TO ?HE
PRIVILEGED ORDERS,
in the #
SEVERAL STATES or EUR
Rcfujtin? from the necessity pro»
priety of a Genera! Revoluti'jn in
the ¥i mctple of Govermneny.
Bv jo el Barlow, Efjuire.
-■ v. - — 1 :» . | V V ' f
PSINTEDPY
CHILDS a*O SWAJNE, '
AT THEIR OFFICE "No. HI Ci !*-!> T£ EX T,
MAR FIFTH-STREET,
riIUADLLFUIA*