Vol. I.
An accurate Table of the Duties paya
ble on Goods, Wares and Mer
chandize imported into the United
States, from the lft July 179 2 *
rj the ift column Jheivi the Duty -when imported
in jimtricav, tbc id. -when in Foreign V 'JJ C ''
* # * For articles not mentioned in the A'phabel
loot below among free good:, -wares
! A. F.
ALE, beer,&porter in calks
per gal. Cents per gallon S S 1-2
in bcttles —2 cents
per ioz. and also per gallon. 8 S
Anchors per cent. ad. val. 7 *" 2 ' x "4
Annifeed - - lo U
Anns—fire and fide arms 15 15 1-2
Artificial flowers, feathers and
ornaments for head dtefl'ei 10 10 1-2
Balls, Balfams.&c. fee cosmet
ics—Bonnets and caps, fee
hats
Books printed for sale come
within the description of
non-enumerated articles—
viz* ad. val. 7 1-1
Blank Duoks - - IO 11
Boots per pair—cents per pair 50 55
Brass n nufaftures, \vre and
teautenague excepted—per
cent ad. %al. 10 10 '•*
Bricks and tiles 10 **
Brulhes 7 '-2 8 >"4
Buckles, (hoe and knee i° 11
Buttons of every kind 10 10 3-4
Cables and tarred cordage per
cvvt. A. ißc F. 190. Untar
ed cordag* ***d j arn, cents
perewt. 22 S 2 4°
Cabinet wares per. ct. ad. val I 0 10 3-4
Cards, playing cards per pack
cents per pack 2 5 2
Wool and cotton do. per doz. 50 55
Cambricks, perct. ad. val. 1-2 *> 1-4
Candles of tallow, cents per
lb. A. 2 F. 2 1.5— Sperma
ceti and wax per lb. A. 6.
F. 6 3-5
Canes, walking flicks and
whips per ct. ad. val. 7 0 4 *4
-Caps and bonnets —fee hats
Carpets and carpeting 10 . 10 3-4
Checfe cents per lb. 4 4 -"5
China wares per ct. ad. val. 15 1 1 4
•Chintzes, coloured callicoes,
and all printed, ftainedand
colored goods or manulac
tures of cotton or line., or
both r 7 8"4
Chocolate, cocoa, coffee&c f«e
groceries
Cloathing ready made 7 I-* a 1-4
Clocks and watches 10 11
Coal—cents per bufliel 4 4 4 5
Cordage, tarred and untarred,
fee cables. Twine and pack
thread, cents per cwt. 4 co 43°
Coaches, chariots, phsetonF,
chairs, solos, or osher carri
ages, 01 parts of carriages
per ct. ad val. *5 «7 M®
Colours, painters, whether dry
or ground in oii, except
those commonly uled in dy
ing '5 16
Copper, manufactured (except
in plates, pigs and bars) I® 10 3"4
Cosmetics, alio balls, balsams,
powders, pastes, ointments,
oils, waters, walhes, tinc
tures, elfences, or other pie •
parations, commonly cal
led sweet scents, odors, per
fumes, or cosmetics ; and
powders, or pieparations for
the teeth or gums. »° 10 I_
Cotton orlinnen manufaaures,
fee chintz. Cctton, raw;
cents perlb. 3 ' '
Drugs, medicinal, except thole
uled for dying, per ct, ad.
val.
Earthen and stone wares, per
ct. ad. val. 10 11
Fans, featheis and artificial
flowers per ct. ad val. IO •» -2
Floor cloths and mats
' Fringes, used by upholsterers,
coach makers and saddlers I 5 '5 J ' 2
Fruits of all kinds—fee groce-
Gauzea, percent, ad val. 71-281-4
Geneva, comei under the head
of Spirits
Class and all manufactures of
iilafs, bliik quart bottles
excepted, ad, val. 15 16 '"4
Glauber salts, 3-4 per cent.
ad. val. and also perewt. 200 20°
Cloves of leather per ct. ad.
val. A. to—F. 10 3-4. all
other gloves andmittens ad.
val. A. 10. F. 10 1-2
Glue, per cent, ad val. 15 '5 1
Gcid aud silver plated ware k
gold and silver lace to II
Goods, wares and merchan
dize, imported diricU/
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhtd. Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
WEDNESDAY, August 22, 1792.
from China or India, in
Foreign vessels, (except
teas, china ware, and all
other articles, liable to high
duties ® 11 1-2
Goods intended for rc-expor
ti'tion, fee under the word
merchandize amongst the
free articles at the end of
this lift
Goods not enumerated and
delcribed in this lift, per
cent. ad. val 7
Groceries —viz. Chocolate,
cocoa, coffee,capers,cloves,
cinnamon, com fits, cur
rants, dates, figs, fruits of
all kinds, such as oranges,
lemons &c. ginger, mace,
mustard, olives, oranges,
oil, nutmegs, plumbs,
prunes, raisins, ad val. 1° 11
Gunpowder IO 11
Hair powder *5 1-2
Hats of beaver, felt or wool,
or a mixture of any of
them 10 10 3-4
Hats —all other hats, ca, s,
and bonnets IO 10
Hemp, cents per cwt. 100 105 2-5
Jewelery and paste work per
cent. ad. val. 10 11
ndigo, cents per lb. 25 27 1-2
lion, cast, Hit, and rolled, and
generally all nvtnuiaftures
of tin, pewter, or copper,
or of which either of thcfc
metals i« the article of
chief value, not being o
therwise particularly enu
merated, iron wire excepted,
per cent ad. val. 10 10 3~4
Iron, tleel or brass manufac
tures &c.—fee manufac
tures
Laces and lawns, per cent ad.
7 1 * 8 *;4
Loccs, lines, frin-es, tallel*
and trimmings, ulcd by
upholflerers &c. 15 '5 I " a
Lan»p black 10 11
Lead and all manufaflures of
lead, or in which lead is the
chief article 1 1 *" lc
Leather tanned or tawed, and
all manufa&orei of leather,
or of which it is the article
ofchief value, not other
wise particularly enumer
ated _ 10 10 3-4
Linnen and cotton printed—
fee chintz. Linnen not
printed 7 1 " 2
Looking glasses >5 t_ 4
Malt, per bulhel 10 11
Mats and floor cloths, per
cent ad val. 10 ' 10 ,-J
Marble, Hate and other
flones, bricks, tiles, ta
bles, mortars and other
utensils of marble or
(late, and generally all
flone or eartheu ware 10 11
Manufactures—tin, pewter &
copper,and of l ather not
othciwife enumerated to 10 3-4
Of iron, steel, and biafs, brass
and uon wire excepted 10 10 1-2
Medicinal druqs except those
used in dying 10 10 3"4
Millinary ready made 10 10 3"4
Molasses, per gallon 3 3 3" IC
Mufkcts, pillols, and other
tire arms, swords, hangers,
cutlaftes &c. per cent ad.
val '5 '5
Muslins andmu/linets 7128 1-4
Mustard in flour 10 11
Nails per lb. 2 ~ 1-10
Nankeens, per ct. ad. val. 7 '-2 8 1-4
Ointments, oils, and odors,
ascofmetics, perc. ad val. 10 to l-a
Oil sweet, Florence, &c. oils 10 IX
Pack-thread and twine per
cwt. ' 400 43°
Paint fee colours
Paper writing and wrapping
ed val. A. 10-F. it
sheathing and cartridge A.
10. F. 1 01-2
paper hangings *5 1
pJle boards, parchments and
vellum 10 11
Paflewoik&c. fee jewellery
Pewter manufactures 10 10 3-4
pepper p<r lb. A. 6. F. 6 2-5
Pimento per lb. A. 4. F.
4 2_ 5
Pickle, of all forts, per ct.ad
val, 18 11
Pi€ltire® and prints 10 U
Powder, gun powder per cent
ad. val. IO II
Powd:r, hair powder—fee
hair-powder as a cofms
tic ; fee cosmetic
Porter ; fee ale, beer &c.
Printtd books, lee books,
printed goods, fee chintz.
Saddles, per ct. ad. val 7 It 2 81-4
Sail c'otS 10 10 1-8
Sal; pi'» " ' """ • -~r-cd
ing 56.1b. weight la 13 1-5
But tj calculate the addition
al duties on fait imported
in foreign vcflels ; )'ou
muftwork thus —ex. gr.
Suppose a cargo of 5000 bu
fliels, and that the whole
weighs 350,000 lb. then if
imported in an American
veli'el, 12 cents for every
56m. gives 750 dols.
if in a foreign"}
bottom the ad- I
dilional duty |
is 1 1-5 p. bu- j
fliel on the |
5000 buthcls )■ 60 dol*.
without hav
ing any refer
ence to the
weight which
gives
Total 81 o dols.
sattins and other wrought
silks per ct. ad val. 7 *" a " J *4
Shoes and flippers of silk, per
pair so 21
3th r shoes and flippers for
men and women, oiogs &
golofhoet 10 ' 10 7" ,c
Ditto for children 7 7 7* lo
snuff, per lb. 10 11
30a > - '"5
5 —y
SPIRITS difulled from gram
A. F.
tft. proof 28 »9 1-5
sd. do. 29 30 1-4
3d. do. 3' 3 2 3" 10
I. do. 34 35 '"S
j. do. 4°
1. do. 5° 5 2 1-2
Dther Spirits,
A. F.
ift. 25 261-5
id. 25 26 1-4
,d. =8 29 3"'°
ith 3® 33 i" 2
jth. 38 4°
jth. 46 48 1-2
Spikes, per lb. 1
Stocking!K>er ct. ad val. 1° >° l " 2
Stone and earthen ware 10 11
Sugar per loaf A. 5. F. 5 1-2
Jjiown A.i 1-2.1. 1 1 3-2°
all other per lb. - 1-5 2 3-4
Sugar candy per cent ad. val. 10 u
Tables of marble and slate 10 II
faffels and trimmings ule 1 by
npholflerers, coach ma
kers and saddlers, ct.
ad *al. '5 J ' 2
TEAS imported from China
and India. A. F-
Bohea, per ib. 10 IS
Soulhong & other
black teas 18 27
Hyton 32 50
Othu green teas 20 30
t-'ioin r,uiope A. F.
Pet lb. 12 15
21 27
40 A°
24 3®
From other places.
A. F.
Per lb. U 16 '" 2
27 29 7-1®
5° 55
.3° 33
Tiles and bucks per ct. ad.
val. 10 11
T n manufactures 10 10 3"4
Tinflurcs dal's with cosmetics ,
Tobacco manufa&uied per lb. 6 63-4.
Toys—viz. dolls drefled and
undiefled &c. per ct.
ad. vai. 10 " 1-2
Twine and pack-thread per
cwt. 4°o 430
Vellum and paste board, and
parchment per ct. ad. val. 10 11
Velvets and velverets 71-28 1-4
Wafers '5 >5 '" 2
Walking flicks, whips
canes 7 1-* 8 '"4
Numb, h
Watches and clocks 10 n
Wares of tin, pewter, {lone,
&c. are ranged under their
refpeflive heads
Waters and walhes; fee cos
metics
A. F.
WINES vie. Ma
deira, London
particular per
gallon 56 59 i-e
Do. Loliu martti it} jr"
All other Madei
ra wine 40 43
Sherry 33 35 1-2
St. Lacar 30 3J
Lilbon & Oporto £5 37
Ttneritl and Fay
al 20 29
All other wines (not to ex
ceed 30 cents per gallon in
American 01 32 in Foreign
velfels) opay 4o percent 40 40
ad val 'em, also 2 cents
per gaiion additional.
Yarn untarred ; fee cordage
All other goods, wares, and
merchandize, not before par
ticularly enumerated and de
scribed are liable to a duty
of per cent ad. val. 7 1-2 8
Tie following Articles are Free of Dut?.
Philosophical apparatus specially import
•d for any femiaai'y of learning, books of
persons coming to reside in the United
States, also their cloaths, household furni
ture and tooU or imcl.:mentj of trade or
jrofeftion of such persons. Wood of all
kinds. Brass and iron wire, bullion, co
lours drugs and woods, used in dying, cop
ier in pigs and bars, furs of every kind tin .
Jrefled, raw hides and skins, old pewter,
jlaifter lapis calaminaris, fair petre
"ea stores/and (ulphur and wookunmaau
aftured. Ail mcrclau. : "? 4 jfcoik, aiid
wares, intended to bejfe-ext irred to 1
or .ri?ice. if! t *<' '>
/eflefin \vhTcn
?d ; and all articles cf the growth, prddud,
jr manufacture of the Un-.ttt! S; >.es.
Drawbacks not payable until 6 months
ifter exportation, nor untill a certificate
in writing is produced, by the exporter,
from two reputable merchants at the .0-
reign port or pkee where landed, togethec
with the oath of the matter and mate• cer
tifying the de r, very thereof ; except dtjlillcd
Cpirits, in which a certificate from an Amen .
:an confut, if such there be ; or from two
American merchants, residing at such fo
reign port : or if there be neither, then a
certificate from reputable merchants of the
place and the oath of the mailer and mate
as above, and an oath is further required
that on diligent fearcii no such conlul or
American merchants could be found res:-
: lent there. Goods ad valorem, to be
valued by adding' twenty per cent, to the
iftual colt, if from the Cape of uood Hope
ur beyond, and ten per cent from any other
place, exchiiive of charges.
The Duties of Tonnage, bcfiies ike foregoing /«-
fojls are, viz.
The tonnage to be paid in ten days
after entry, and before clearance, on
vellels of the U. States, from foreign
ports - " « ,us 6
On veflels built in the the United States
after the loth July, 1789, but owned
by foreigners duly recorded - 30
All other veflels - - "5°
Every veiled employed in transporting
good's coaf ways, except they be buile
in and belong to citizens of the Uni
ted States, on each entry - jo
Veflels built in and belonging to citi
zens of the United States, in coajhng
trade, or fifhery, pay once a year, if
iicenfed, and if not licensed, they p;;y
with goods taken in one slate to be
delivered in anotliers, except thefad
joining slate, on each entry - C
Ports of Delivery.
No veflel not wholly belonging to a citizen
or citizens of the United States, lliall be
admitted to unload at any port or place,
except the following, viz.
Kew-Hamplhire ; Porfmcuth.
Mafl'achtlletts ; Portland, Falmouth, New-
Bedford, Dighton, Saltrn, Beverly, GloucfUr,
Aeakwyport, Msrblehead, Sherbourne, lof
ten and Charleflcam, Bath, Frenchman's-Bay,
Plymouth, Wifcai ci, Machias, Penobfcot.
Rhode-Island; Newport and Providence.
Connecticut; New londcn, New-Have*.
New-York; Ncw-l'ork. ey; PcUh-jln.Uy, Burlington.'
v ailia ; Philadelphia
are; I'm. 1 . N vcaltle, Port
.aryland ; lia'.timore, Annapolis, Vienna
, ord.Georgetown on i'otcwmac, Cheltertown,
VMiiiqham, Cedar Point, Town-Creek, Jvin
lemoy, Digges Landing, Snow-Hill, Caf
rolib'jrgh.
Virginia ; Alexandria, Kinfale, New-Port,
Tappahannock, Port-Royal, Frederickf
bnrgh, Urbanna, York-Town, Well-Point,
Hampton, Bermuda Hundred, City-Point.
Rocket's-Landing, No'folk., Ptrtfmouth■
North-Carolina; Wilmington, N ezubern,
U'afhington, F.dcnton and Plankbridge.
South-Carolina ; CKdrleJlon, Georgetown
Beaufort.
Georgia: Savannah, Suttbury, Brunfwick.
St. Mary a;iri Frcdftica.
Nor (hall any vessel from the Cape ol
Good-Hope, or beyond the fame, be ad
mitted to enter, except at the ports, In tht
above lills, which are dlftinguiflied by ITA
LICS.
Fees h Collegers and Natal Officers.
Entry of a vi'lli.l of too tons ills. cts.
or upward s, 2 jc
Clearance, do. do. 2 jc
Entry of a v (Tel under 100 tons i 5c
Clearance, do. do. I 5c
Permit to land goods, 2C
Every bond taken officially, 4c
Permit to load . oods, for ex
portation, for draw-hack, 3c
very official certificate, or
!> ll of health, 2c
V other official document,
(ri ier excepted) ac
Fee 1 to Surveyors.
• • measurement of a Vcflel
too tons and imderper ton, 1
For do. 100 to 200 ton.'', 15c
for do. above 200 do. 20;
On each veflel of 100 toils ami
upwards, with goods fujaject
to duty, .3
On each vefiel under 100 tons,
with do. 1 50
All vedfU not having goods
Aibjeft to duty 66
Rate ofCi ins for cfUmating Duties.
I'avablein gold coin, ■ 1 nice,
England, Spain and Portugal,
or of equal fihenefs, perdwt. 8g
Mexican dollar, 1
Crown, of France, 1 11
Crown, of England, 1 11
Silver coin *, of equal finenefs, p. oz. ' "
(Ut silver of equal tineuefs, per do. 1 4
Pound SteWing, 4 fr.(
l'loriin, or Guilder, 39
Mark bunco of Hamburg, 33
Ileal plate, of Spain, 10
M ill Ree, of Portugal, 1 24
ound Sterling of Ireland, 4 10
ale of China, 1 4a
\goda of India, I 9.1
npee of Bengal, sj,
[ From tlx General Advertffef.]
/'/f of the principal BeJlrifHons. Impofitiam
•id Prokibiti«M fvflained by the United States
their trade with the Britjii dominions, ana
''ofej'ijlained by Great-Britain in her tradt
ith the United States From the 7th No. of abi iej
xaxtii:alien of lord ShrflirleTs 01 fcitations on
..if Commerce of the United States.
GREAT-BRITAIN
PROHIBI I'S American vefiels from cn
i)£ into the ports of several parts of her
oininlpns, viz. the Welt-Indie', Canada,
va-Scotn, New-B.'unl\vick, Newfound
■ id, Cape-Rreton, Hudloij'a Bay, and her
alt-India (pice market.
lie imposes double light money on Ame
in veliels in molt of her port..
prohibits the navigation, ad libitum, ot
1 rican vefiels, by native or other fea
,ieii.
She prohibits the employment of Ameri
can built (hips by her own citizens in many
I. .inches of trade, upon any terms.
She charges a dut> 011 American fail-cloth
made up in the United States for Britiih
'hips.
She prohibits the importation of goods
ill several parts of her dominions into
liers in American veliels, upon any terms,
.ihe prohibits the importation of goods
iHo Great-Britain by American vefiel'
inn any other country than the United
' lutes.
She prohibits the importation into Great
tain from the United States, by Ameri
-1 veliels, of all goods not produced by the
nited States.
She prohibits the importation of any goods
I'eviuully brought into the United States,
com the laid (tatesinto Great-Britain,even
; Britiih vefiels.
lie prohibits ihe exportation of several
uicles from Great-Britain to the United
iter.
.he lays duties of various rates upon the
< -poUation of many articles to the United
it*, a.
Slmj prohibits the importation of all ma
;!*:»• itires from the United States, into
1. 1 European dominions, and her colonies,
1 iiltls it be fume very limplc preparations
..d deco&ionsj requilite to her navy, Hiip
j'ing, and manufactures.
She imposes very coi:f:derable duties up
on some of the agricultural productions of
the United States, and excludes others by
duties equal to their value.
She prohibits for conliderable'ternlis of
time, some of the principal agricultural
prodh&ions of the United States, and others
at all timfrs.
It is underload that by treaty flic grants
some favors, which are not extended to the
United States.
She prohibits the importation or tome
American articles ill American lliips, or any
but Britilh ships, into her European dojni
nions.
She does not permit an American citizen
t(> import goods into some of her dominions,
and to fell them there, even i<j Britilh vel
fels. In other parts of her dominions flie
lays an extra tax on him, or his faits.
She imposes heavy duties on certain ar
ticles of the produce of the American filh
eries, and insupportable duties on others in
some part of 11 r dominions : and in other
parts, (lie prohibits their importation.
She prohibits the coufumption of Ameri
can articles, of which she permits the im
portation.
She prifhibits the importation of Ameri
can articles from foreign countries into the
Britilh dominions, even in her ovvstmips.
THE UNITED STATES
ADMIT Britifii vefl'els into all their
ports, fubjeft to a tonnage duty of 4 \ cents,
or 24 sterling pence more than America']
vessels, and ail addition of one tenth to the
amount of the iinpuft accruing 0:1 their
cargoes.
They do not impose extra l'ght money
on Britifii vessels in any of their ports.
They admit the navigating of Bririfli Vcl
"els by native or other teamen, ad libitum-
They admit the employment of Britilh
built lliips, by their own citizen , in every
branch of trade, upon the terms ot 4 '; cents
jxtra per ton. and one tenth extra 011 the
nipoit arilingfrom their cargoes.
They do not Charge a duty 011 Britilh fail
loth made up in Great-Britain for Ameri
:an (hips.
They admit the importation of goods
Yom any part of their dominions into ano
her, in Britilh velfels, 011 the terms of 44
:ents per toil extra 011 the velfel.
They admit the importation of goods iil
o the United States, in Britilh vessels from
very country whatever.
They do not prohibit the importation into
he United States from Great-Britain, by
3ritifh vefl'eli, of any goods not produced
»y Great-Britain.
. They ilo not prohibit the importation of
inv goods previoully brought intu wi ( *at-
Stftaiii, from that kingdom into the United
State., m eiUjerJkifttk American bot-
They do not prohibit Ihe exportalion of
iny article f rom the United States to Great*
Britain.
They do not lay a duty 011 the exporta
.:on of any article whatever to Great-Bri
:ain.
They do not prohibit the importation of
my manufacture whatever from Great
biritain.
They impose moderate duties (lower
ban any other foreign nation by 2,3, and 4
for one) 011 the produce and manufactures
>f Great-Britain, except in a very tew in
.lances, and exclude scarcely any articles,
jy duties equal to their value.
They prohibit none of the agricultural
productions of Great-Britain or her dom -
nioua.
They treat Great-Britain as favorably as
iny nation whatever,as to (hips, Importsand
export; , and in all other refpefts.
-They do not prohibit the importation of
any.Britilh.article in Britilh vellels, or any
but American vessels.
They permit a Britilh citizen to import
goods'to all their ports, in any veflel., and
10 fbll them there without any extia Lax on
him, or his l'ales.
They impose only live per cent, on the
produce of the Britilh tilheries (which duty
is drawn back on exportation) and admit
.-very article derived from them.
They do not prohibit the co nfumptioo f
illy Britilh article whatever.
They do not prohibit the importation of
Britifii articles from foreign countries in
.my ships.
For Gazette.
Number 11.
To the People ok theUnitedStates.
IT is the hacknied practice of some wri
ters, to confound the abules of adnini-
Ifration, with tl
and it is chiefly owing to the deceitful pull
ing of this class of writers, that many true
friends of the People have been provoked
to an invelligation of thole unsound doc
trines, in order to expose their fallacy
and (hew to their fellow-citizens tlienecti
fity of keeping a constant watc.'. upon the
proceedings of their public servants, and of
leletting virtuous men for their represen
tative.. If Congress have done a great ma
ny good thiiiv . f'uice tile adoption of our
prelent excellent conflitution, it was no
more than their duty, and their conltitu
cuts will reward thole who beik deserve
their fuHi'age by re-elefling them. But, that
much, too niuchof the good has been can
celled by bad nieafures, ajid tliut a necellity
; of rejecting some charter.-, will not
he attempted to be denied by any honelt
man. Of the 65 lleprefentatives and 1(1
Senators, who oompoled the rirlt Houle.leve
ral of them have made fucli independent tor
tune?, that they m>w wWli to decline serving
any longer ill public life. Had tUey gained
thofc immejife fortunes by any regular,
hone ft line of inoultry, 110 censure would
have been palled upon their conduct ; but
svlien tfie'r deceived, insulted, plundered
cunliituenw had seen and proved their bafe
nc IV, wh it bread did not then burn with
indignation, to fee the government partially
adminilter«<| by men engaged in Specu
lation- Here I prcfume, it will be
demanded by the scribes of the junto,
" Name them, name them." —This demand
1 v ill here reply to by a very lintple and
lafe advice, to my fellow independent elec
tors of the United States.— Look around you
from New-Hampshire to Georgia, and view thojc of
\our Reprcfentativswhohav- leepediutoiinmoderate
wealth, by undue means. See others gaping for
lltnjionsJ'roni the Executive. Look back to others
who xotedthrough thick and thin to J'ccureJdlarics
from the public co/fens, rather than trujlany longer
'11 the chance of bring re - defied by their conflituents.
Recollect that /one members oj the Senate, as well
is of the Houje. fold. the fiemtnept refidcncefor the
ijfurnption, and the ajfumption Jor the rtfidcnce.
Mark thofc who voted for high taxes of impost and
•xctfcs, toJupport a war rJtabUfkmenl, and extraß
!he money from the people, in order to draw it itito
'.he pockets of notorious contraßors, with whom it is
nare than probable they hadfecret conntilious, nay
bartnerfhips.
Bur the enemies of fair enquiry cry out
lgainft us, for attempting to convey thisiu
ormati .11 ; that we are workers in <lark
ief:-, intrigiYers against government, fomen
ts of mifcltief, &c. Bcc. And again they
iv, that in proportion to the light and in
formatiim of the people, there is the less dan
ger. How inconlillent! The fame men
ivho approve of taxing knowledge,by heavy
Jut'ies 011 books and newfpnpers-j who flop
he very current of information from reaihmg
.lie people, have the effrontery to cpnfels
hat a bitter spirit of party will inevitably
ittend fuclv a iituation.and public spirit will
;xpire in the rage of faction I Hear this,
fellow-citizens of the United States our
real friends and guardians are branded by
:he junto with the vvorft of epithets—yoti
ire told, that we live in lurking holes in
rigning against government j and yet we
.litis publicly offer you our opinion, whilst
/our enemies are daily attempting to ftifle
,'onr tindcrttandings and lead you Itep by
Vep to deftrurtioii.—Thni are the men who
;ive in lurking hole —They are the men
a lio formed a midnight club in New-York,
or the purpose of plotting the ruin of this
onntry ; and had it not been forthe oppo
ition given by our real friends, we should
already have had the ambitious few ranked
uto dalles of Nobility, and the People set
.iown at filch a distance beneath the feet
of the well-borll, that it would have
been in vain for any citizen of moderate
mtumftances to attempt holding up his
head amongst three or four dozen robed
highueffes, illustrious families &c. &c. it
would have been 101 l labour for a trades
man or mechanic's foil to have acquired an
excellent education, for he could not have
expecled to be raised to thole Splendid na
tions, where virtue, learning, and abilities,
(houjd have commanded refpert. Nothing
would have gone down but Title, Rank,
Family, See. That the few who plotted
this fir ft eflUy against the republic at large,
tlid it in the dark, and from their secret
recedes at length brought forth the Mon
ger, is a circumftsince that disgraces the
memory of the First Fedeual Senate. But
that was not the only secret plot- how
many bargains were fti tick out of Congress
ty numbers who voted against their con-
to pnrchaSe a corrupt vote ill re
turn. How many nightly meetings were hejd
for the purpose of railing the price of
certificate > only at such times as bell suited
the private imereft of the junto ? How ma
ty virtuous measures proposed in Congress
jy the worthiest characters, have been ne
gatived by the inlluence of Speculators ?
flow many unconstitutional arts have been
ittcmpted ? and are not these things pro
per to be enquired into ? Is it not fair that
lie people fliould be warned againit re
:lertmg such chaixrters as will always be
riy them for mercenary ends ? Ifes, my
fellow-citizens, it is proper to inform you
if thole things; it is proper to alarm you
igaiult such men and meal'ures, and it is
mow TIME for you to art with that true
'epublican spirit, which Ihould never deep
in the brealt of an independent federal
elertor. But there are other dangers to
which you are exposed, of which you
Ihould a!Co be aware. There are a Jet of
writers, of no small ability, and of infinite
fubclety, who are constantly alVailing you
with diihoneft dortrines, contrary to the
principle; of found policy, altogether in
compatible with the Ipirit of freemen, and
diametrically oppolite to the true interest of
the United States. Such arc the dortrines
publilhed some time lince, under the title ot
Dtjcoufet of Davilla, Publico.'a, An American,
&c. ! &e. To the authors of thofc pieces, I
am willing to give a just proportion of ap
plause, for their abilities and industrious
perlever.'.nee, if they were really actuated,
as they fay they were, by patriotic motives;
bull when you lee writers of some ingenui
ty Hart up' in defence of hereditary fuccef
fion, (landing armies, perpetual and increa
ling take., anil \v!ia have attempted to
choak the circulation of knowledge—then
it is time to offer a hand in unmalking those
fallacious arguments ; thus, when you are
told that a public debt is a public blelfiilg,
and whole folio pamphlets are written to
prove it, let this be your answer—" An inac
tions faljhood can never immortalize the name of its
inventor; TRUTH alone can have a durablefuc
cefs : Ihe laurels with which ERROR ii crowned,
have Imt the verdure of a day. [Bacun.]) And
in reply to the putting paragraphia of a cer
tain Gazette, 1 will quote a sentence from
Hume's idea of a perfect commonwealth —
" There are no characters so pernicious as
political projectors, if they have power ;
nor so conitmptitle, if they want it." This
'entiment is certainly applicable only to the
junto, and not to me—l have proposed no
political fchcmes; I barely confine my en
deavours to the subjeCt of free election and
lioneft representation. Let the people al
ways be feciired in those, and they may defy
the machinations of an holt of machiavelian,
manufacturing, banking, speculating, or
'itulary projectors. The lajl mentioned party
(hould not excite our abhorrence the less,
becanfe iliey failed in their attempql—
Crimes (hould be eltimated by thj intnifton
of the offender, not the conlequences of the
offence. Neither weakness in underftatid
ing nor obfeurity in life, (hould shelter info
'eme or faCtion from the infamy they cle
fcrye: but such are the operations of the
human mind, that we frequently overlook
the baseness of the attempt, merely because
it has failed of success, and congratulate
aurfelves upon our security, without giving
yent to the honest indignation which lUould
turn its vehemence againlt those who (hould
sndanger it. The laboured publications of
ophHtical writers, when narrowly exami
ned, will be readily rejected ; but it mull
;ive pain to every phil-Tophic mind to fee
talents employed in the rnin of our country.
I (hall conclude this letter with a quotation
from Bacon : " When a Safefoul, amind too
weak to discover the truth, knowingly al
lents to a falfehood, it obeys its iuitinCt;
but, that a philosopher can become the
apostle of an error, that he docs not take for
the truth, 1 doubt, and my reason is unan
swerable ; that it is the deli re every author
has of personal fame and glory! but, a re
nown acquired by error, :s a phantom of
glory, that is driven away by the tirft rays
of truth and reason." By this personal
fame, I presume. the author meant that
kind of fame, which is pursued by men who
have only in view their own aggrandizement
and that of their family. Men v. ho have in
America ventured to advance an opinion,
That a nation cannot be rover ntd by free rcprefen
tation, but mujl be governed by corruption, and the
welt-bo n few. Such fame, however, is very
diltinct from the glory of a nation, and per
fectly the reverie of what I underltand by
the words general wellfare. That the lalt
mentioned fentime it has been avowed by
I'oine persons of monied influence, is known
10 many ; and with regard to the former, it '
is contained in the discourses of Davilla;
where the practice is applauded in molt en
thusiastic language, of a nation (locking
round an hereditary thing in a cradle, as a cen
tral fun that is to irradiate a circle contain
ing millions of rational beings, all of whom
are advised, nay,, they may be obliged to
bow the knee to it, and perform a fort of
worfliip. Will Americans ever submit to
such a (late of degradation ? That they ne
ver may is the (iucere wilh of
Aug. 21. Au Independent. Federal Elellor.
—, i TUCTmcaTtKZi.im, m |
r. K I T T S, July 19.
A vellel bound from England to Domini
ca, fell in with a liilp dispatched by Lord
Cot nwallifi from the E ilt-lndies, with the
glorious news of the defeat of Tippoo, and
the furreuder of his capital. The Captain •
of the Indiatnan hailed the above vellel, and
deli red her commander to come on board,
which he did, and fyund there Lord Corn
wall's aid-de-camp, who wrote a (liort let
ter to Governor Orde, and enclosed him the
Madras Gazette with the particulars. A
gentleman whole veracity may be depended
on, has arrived lure from Dominica : he
saw the Gazette, which mentions, " That
Lord Cornwall! , puihed 011 the siege with
the greatest vigor. The alacrity of the ar
my in general, and the alertness with which
the iippri aches were carried 011 by General
Meadows, was fuel), that notwithstanding
every inch of ground was biavelv and vigo
rously defended by Tippoo, who command
ed In perlbn every poll of danger, tjte enemy
were diove from i ll their out-works, and
the Sultan and garrifoii were confined tq (lit
citadel, from whence he offered to accede
to any terms of peace Lord Coruwallis
might dictate. Seringapatam surrendered
by capitulation. Tippoo gave up half his
dominions, artd up wauls of three millions
of pounds (terl'mg. The day after the treaty
was ligned, the Saltan, with his two Cons,
one oi 1 1 years old, and the other 7, march
ed through the British army, which was
drawn up to receive him—he had a melan
choly but foldietly look—he went up to
Lord Corinvidlii, and delivering his two.
sons to his lordlhip as hullages for the per
formance of the treaty, laid, He hoped his
lordlhip would be a father to them. In the
general orders the day after the treaty, hi*
lordlhip, after the itftial thanks to the army,
mentions Tippoo's-gallantry in defending
hit capital in very honorable terms, A dayor two after the surrender of Seringnpatam,
Lord Cornwallis vilited the two liid.au
Princes, and presented one of them with an
elegant fufee, and the other with a cafe of
piflels, with which they seemed highly ple.i
fed. Seringapatam, with all the Mysore
country, is to be restored to Tippoo ; but
all the extenlive and luxuriant country be
tween the Ghauts and the Britith fettlc
nients, remain with the English—the Allies
are to have the provinces bordering on tiieif
dominions. All the petty princes are relto
red to their former rights,"
On Saturday lall the wind fliifted sudden
ly due south and blew a ltrong gale, with a
heavy swell. The iliips in general either
parted or dragged—The brig Hope, Captain
M'Millall, parted two cables, but fortu
nately brought up with a third. The (hip
Stanley, Capt. Haves, dragged into (hallow
water, but by the alliftance of another an
chor (lie was fee tired- It proved not so for
tunate with the Ihip Thomas, Capt. Bar
ret —(lie had about 500 hogflieads l'ugar 011
board, and was to have failed for London
in a few days ; (he parted one anchor, and
dragged the other, till (he (truck on a (mail
reef near the (hore—Capt. Barret then cut
away his mizen and main malts, when ihe
' brought up and rode for some time, and
there were great hopes of saving her ; but
her anchor again coming home, Ihe fell on
the reef broadlide—the Captain then cut
away the foremalt, and got over the reef—
(he then seemed to lay pretty easy in the
(and, and it was expected a great part oi
her cargo would have been saved ; but a
bout two o'clock next morning (lie split and
ive.it to pieces, ?ud the whole cargo is en
t rely loit. No lives have been loit, owing
to the generous and well-timed alliftance
rendered by Capt. Cato, (of the man ot
war's tender) who took in the crew about
live minutes before the (hip went to pieces.
We think it but jultice to add, that the boats
of his Majeity's frigates then laying here,
rendered every alliftance in rheir power to
the diltrelled vellels, particularly to Capt.
M'Millan. Two other small vellelsweie
forced on (hore.
PHIL A D E L P H I A.
August 22, 1792.
The governor of the State of New-York
lias issued a proclamation (dated Augult 16)
offering SCO dollars reward for the appre
hending Jacob I'alcntine of Herkemer
county, labourer, who has abfeonded and
is charged with having murdered an Indian
chief of the Onondago nation, on the 27th
of July lalt.
ExlraEl of a letter from Havre-cle-Grace, June 17;.
" With refpeft to our markets, little al
teration has taken place for some time pa(t,
but our exchanges with all foreign places
have risen coufulerably ; that on London
from 14 to 19, and is (till on the rife. News
is jult received in towr. by private letters,
that on the 12th instant a general engage
ment took place between the Auftrians and
the French army under General de la Fay
ette, in which the Auftrians were beaten
with a loss of two thousand men left 011 the
field of battle, besides some prisoners taken
by the French, with eighteen pieces of can
non. This intelligence was confirmed in a
Paris paper of the 14th. The engagement
happened not far from Namur, near which
place the enemy were in great force, as a
falfe march towards it was made to mislead
them. About the roth or luh of June, in
stant. the miniltar of war, of contributions,
ami of the interior were dilplaced. M.
Dumourier, former minister of foreign af
fairs, has been placed at the head of the war
department. M- Jaillac is made minister of
foreign affairs, and M. Moulds is placed at
the head of the interior. About the fame
time, M. Goiivion was killed in a Ikirmifh,
by a rebounding camion bail. The Prince
of Liege is dead. M. Cuftines replaces Ge
neral Kochambeau. The Polilh army el
seftually pppofed an attempt of the Ruffians
to croliithe Dnieffer, the latter having been
obliged to return to their encampment."
[ I rent a Corrcjpondent. ]
A* the fail season is nearly approaching,
■when the merchants will be obliged to cal
culate t\\ o and an half per cent, additional
duty 011 molt articles ot import, agreeably
to the law pallid in the lalt fefiion of Con
gi els, it may be lerviceable to many perl'ons
to be relieved from the slavery oi calcula
tion. The table* 1 now fend for publica
tion, may be depended upon as being accu
rate. Tie prelent government of the l/-
nited States is not jet arrived at its fourth
year of exiflence, aitho' we have had three
different iiupolt laws; and, trgm appear
ances, we may expect every year tup! odtice
additional ones. This occasions a variety
of pamphlets, tables, and lilts of duties, with
explanations adtnjimtum, to be publiiUed both
from the authority ot the individual prin
ters, and from the treasury department. In
order to remedy, or rather to iiiuplify this
deleft, and exl.ibit the whole clue of the
labyrinth at one view, 1 have thought proper
to coiupole the table above-mentioned lor
the National Gazette. Should it be disco
vered to be erroneous in any point, 1 will
venture to lay that Inch dilcovtcy mult be
upon a different conduction of all the three
iiupolt laws already palled, to any conltruc
tion which would naturally be put upon
them by a plain trader from common and
natural calculations. A. B.
* &ce,J'or l/u i able, the frjl of this paper.
From the Keni irony Gazette, July 21.
An extract of a letter from a gentleman
at Fort Waliiington, to his friend in this
place, dated the 15th inltant, mentions, that
news has been received at St. Vincenries,
by an Indian sent from Major Hamtrainck
to L'Anguillfe (the village dellroyed by
General Wilkinfon last August) that a par
ty of Shawaneie had fallen in with, and
murdered a party of three or four men, not
very distant from one of our fortifications;
that these men bore ti (lag; that the Indians
conveyed the papers found in their pollef
<ion to some white men, who could read ;
that these papers turned out to contain a
talk from a Big Captain, which made the
Indians regret their conduct. From this
report, it is probable one of the flags sent
out by General Wilkinfon has been inter
cepted and cut off, but which is uncertain.
There exiltsa ftrtmg presumption that Gol.
Harding was not of this party. There were
three Hags sent out—the tirft conflfted of
three men; the fceond. Major Trueman's,
of the fame number; and Col. Harding's,
who was attended by one man only.
A letter from Paris (in the new French
settlement) dated July 17, Hates, That in
telligence had been received at Fort-Jefter
fon, of the death of Major Trueman, Mr.
Freeman, Dcbachi and Jarrat. That this
information was brought by two prisoners,
who were labouring in a cornfield, and
made their escape. The one was taken
priloner at the time general Harmar was
defeated—the other is William Duer, of
Captain Buchanan's company of levies.—
They further inform, that on the 2jth of
June a party of Indians took eight men pri
soner?, who were making hay near Fort-
Jefferfon ; that when they had moved the
prisoners some distance from the Fort they
divided them—four were given to the Chip
pewas, lour to the Shawanefc : that the
Shawanefe burnt the four unfortunately af
togned to them ; that the Chippewas took
theirs home, to the intent of making la
bourers of them ; that the Indians are de
termined for war, and will not treat, but
will kill every white person that attempt:
to go to them, either with or without a Hag ;
that their prelent plan is to cut off the escorts
of provisions dsftincd to the out-polls, and
by that means oblige die troops ltationed
there to furreilder ; and that for this pur
pole they keep two spies conltantly out.
Official accounts received from l'"ort-
Washington, Hate, that, norw ithftanding the
pai ific overtures of the United States, the
Indians are for war , that Major Trueman
and the iirft flag have been murdered at
Glaice river ; that Col. Harding's fate is
doubtful, but hopes are entertained that he
has escaped to iiandufky.
To the Co'.onifts of St. Domingo, now resi
ding in the United States of America.
My dear Countrymen,
THE advice which the Confnl Ccneral Of
France caused to be inserted in the Gazette
the 13th of this month, must necelfarily, if
not suspend, at lealt retard, the armaments
of the continent intended for St. Domingo.
This delay may produce misfortunes of the
molt serious nature to that colony, depri
ved, as it is at present, of the usual produc
tions of its (oil. We ought, my dear coun
trymen, to fly to the aliillance of our bre
thren, and do every thing for them that cur
weak resources may permit: therefore, I
call upon you to depolit each in proportion
to disabilities, a pecuniary contribution in
the hands of the Confnl of France reliding
in the town which you inhabit, or the near
elt to the place of your abode, requelHng
him to transmit what he (hall have received,
as Toon as possible, to the Consuls of France
redding 111 New-York, Philadelphia and
Charlellon, according to his dillance from
each of these three ci Lies, v\ho will remit tilt
monies so cpTlefted, to him, among you,
whom you {hall have <hofen in each of these
three cities, for the purpose of dispatching
veilels loaded with provilions for St. Domin
go ; arid that every part of the colony may
receive an equal proportion of the aftifl
ance, it wo l uld be proper that the monies
sent to New-Yoik lliouid be appropriated to
fend afliltance to the Cape, from whence
some may be sent to the Northern Province.
Whac is collected at Philadelphia will
be appropriated for Port-au-Prince from
whence the wellern part may be supplied,
and what is collected in C.harlefton, will be
appropriated for Les Cayes, from which
place alfiltsnce will be diftrlbuted to the
ibutliern p.yt. If 011 the arrival of the vef
iHs, the places for which they (hall be sent
are fufliciently provided lor, they {hall be
lent from thence to the parts of the island
which fuffer the molt.
Such, my dear countrymen, are the reflec
tions which my love for my brethren has
inspired me with, and I am well petfuaded
that you will approve of the moans which
I have pointed out to give etfeiSt to a fenti
nient which is engraven 011 the heart of eve
ry one of us.
L O M B A R T.
P. S. I cannot fuiUcieutly recommend ex
pedition to yon in depofjting your contribu
tions, so that the affiltance may arrive before
the winter, a time in which the moil prefl
ing wants are felt. Point out alio the per :
lon whom you charge with the negotiation,
so that those who may be judged (he moil
proper may begin without loi's of time to
provide the intended fuppliet.
To the Editor of the Nations Ga
"ZISTTE.
5 I R\
THERE are three modes of commu
nication, upon the fubjedt of the
approaching eledtiqn, contemplated by the
citizens. The full is through the medi-,
uni of a board of conferrees, vested with
the power of fixing the perforis who arc to
represent us in Congress ; the second thro'
the medium of a committee of correspon
dence, employed to colledt the names of
all the candidates, <vithout making a dis
crimination or feledhon ; and the third is
through the medium of the press, offering
the sense of individuals, in the shape of a
tieket, to the consideration of the public.
The avowed objedt, and the probable con
itquences of pursuing the iiift of those
modes, are fufiicient to condemn it. When
it was publicly declared by one of the fan- J
guine advocates for the appointment of
conferrees, ,l that he should be ashamed
not to be of a party," may wc not fairly
infer, that his object, at least, is to frame
a party ticket; and fhonld the wealthy
and powerful be able, thus industriously,
to divert the cuircnt of popular eledtions
into a new and unnatural channel, who
does not anticipate thclofsof that equality
of privilege, the subversion of that com
mil uity of rights which the language of re
publican governments attaches to the per
fion of the humblett, as well as the proud
est citizen ?
The fccond mode does not, indeed, as
sume tiiis inauspicious alpedt ; for, if the
committee honellly execute theii trust ac
cording to their own conftrudtion of it,
their correspondence is nothing more than
a vehicle of information ; and their report
of names can have no more effedt in pre
ferring or influencing the votes of their
fellow- citizen*, than the publication of a
diredtory, or any other alphabetical lift of
the inhabitants of the state. But, I am
apprehenlive that the delays incidental to
a correspondence of this nature, may, at
the present late hour, prevent its being ex
tensively ufeful. The city and the neigh
bouring countics may derive a benefit from
it, but the citizens of Luzerne and Walh
ington will hardly hear of the lilt before
they aie called on to vote.
Hence it is, -Sthat I am induccd to
adopt tne third mode ; and to present you
with a ticket, which, after much impartial
consideration, appears in my opinion, to
comprize as great a portion of personal
ta enta and integrity, of feeling and know
ledge of the intereit of the state, and of at
tachment and refpedt towards the Union,
as Pennsylvania can furnifli. In my dif
tributiou I have not attended, more than
an impartial arrangement requires, to any
rule founded on local situation f but, it
will be allowed, that if the qualifications
of the candidates are equal, the principle j
of representation jullifies my giving to
each part of the Rate a reasonable (hare
in the formation of the ticket j and, it wili
be observed, that in doing this, I have le
ledted those charadiers, who, not ojily at
the present period, hut throughout the re
volution, have, in every political lervice,
been honored, trusted, and employed by
the neighbourhood in which they reside, ■
and wheie their virtues and their abilities !
mult certainly be belt proved and known.
For CONGRESS.
Charles Thoiiilbn, j
\Y illiam Fimlley,
Frederick A. Muhlenberg, I
Edward Tilgliman,
William Mo.it^omery,
Daniel Jleilter,
John Sinilie,
I homas Hartley,
William Irvine,
John W. Kittera,
Andrew Gregg,
Peter Muhlenberg,
John Barclay.
I am pcrfuaded that the impartiality !
and patriotism of your brother pi inters,
will load them to promote the circulation
of the various tickets, that shall be pub- j
lifhed on this important occalion ; and, j
therefore, I commit the result of my ro
fledtions to the public, with this wish, that
those who have thought upon the fuhjedt,
will either impart a better opinion. 01 can
didly adopt the one which I have declared.
A REPUBLICAN.
Atlgufl 20, 1792.
[From the Independent Gazetteer^
To the Mechanics and Manufadturers.
YOU may remember, that during the;
firft fefiion of Congrels, whilst Mr. Du-'
f.r was afiiflant Secretary, proportions 1
were made to you from the department,!
in. order to difqovar the situation and fe-i
crets of your various employments, tindef
a. pretence, that the Secretary of the Trea-<
fury wished to bring before Congrefc fomd
plan for your benefit and encouragement j
Hie information so acquired by the Se
cretary enabled him to b;it)g forward a
lengthy icpoit on manufactures, to bs
introduced .it the National Manufactory ;
But will not this fchtmt ruin you ? This
question metit3 your attention ; and an
you called public meetings to procure this
information for the Secretary—you should
now call meetings to enquire whether you
have not been duped in this
there are no doubt some mean spirited men
among you,who are humble dependants on
the well born of Mr. Adams ; but there
certainly will be found a fufficient number
of friends to the rights of man in evety
trade to form a society : let committees be
appointed by cach particular society, to
represent the whole mechanics and manu
facturing interest, and aCt accordingly.
Should this take place, the mechanics and
manufacturers will acquire that weight
and respeCtability they ought to have a
monglt us, and this refpe&able class of
citizens will no longer be made the tools
of faCtion for electioneering purposes-
A MECHANIC.
Phila. Aug. i 3.
To the Editor of the National Gazette.
sir,
A FREE Press is a butwaik, and an in
dependent printer a centincl of liberty—
without centinels to alarm, no fortrefs is
secure, but is liable, every moment, to a
surprize. As a w:\tchful centincl ofPenn
fylvania's rights, I make no scruple to ad
dress a few loose thoughts to you. To be,
or not to be,fctms to be the present qwjlion —
Whether one faCtion shall govern, or the
other—whether one party (hall direCt the
minds, preside over the weal, and be the
fathers confefiors of the flare, or the
other—this is the great hinge upon which
conferrees, and committees of conefpon
dence turn,—The citizens who are unbi
assed by party, and seek only the welfare of
the Hate, view with indignation and ab
honencc the tricis which both parties are
playing to serve their own purposes, and ap.
plaud every endeavour 10 penetrate and
their infidioua deligns, Will any
one difpaflionate man, who poUcfTes but a
grain oHeafon, believe that nil the decla
mation and zeal of the conleirt'es and ccfm«
mittec men, proceed from public virtue and
the true amor patri:c ? Like the minitte
rial and anti-minilterial parties of B.itain,
they bellow about public good, reform,
icc. as they are in or out of office, «nd en
deavor to make the mass of citizens dupe 3
to their views ; but I flatter myfelf there
remains too much good fjnfe in Pennsyl
vania to fuffer tricks of this fort to pafa
without detection, and too much dignity
to let them pass unheeded. I much ap
prove of your correspondent Mirabeau'st
plan, and commend Ins candour and inde
pendence. He willies, not only to think
for hitnfclf, but, unlike conferees and com.
mitteea of correspondence, he i willing to
allow others the fame privilege. His
ticket doe 3 credit to his judgment, for
it unites all interells, and I (incevely hope
that it will meet with the deliberate con
federation of the freemei of Pennsylvania.
Would that 1 could callback again to
earth the spirit of this great apostle of Li
berty, Mirabem, to animate me with the
ccleltial fire of his genius, and true fervour
of patriotil'm, that I might, with the
lightning of his eloquence; ann thunder of
his argument, flrike dead every insidious
as well as open attempt upon our liberties,
and blait the wretch, who, under the
masque of public good, fnelters baseness
and treachcry 1
PHFLO MIRABEAU.
[\* If the author of tlie piece signed
J ANit.s will leave his name with the Editor,
.t shall appear on Saturday.]
JUST PUBLISHED*"
By E. Oswald,
(I'ricc Eleven Pence)
PI V E LETT ER S,
i addrefled to the
J Yeomanry of the United States:
lame Oijleivations on the
j Scheme ol Governor Dutr and Mr Secret*,
iv LiatnUtw, to ertabiiiii Nation*! Manufactures ;
by a FARMER* Thi? pamphlet, fy iu
rtfrVAirg at this period, may be had at ihc follow
ing pbc -j ; at Mr. Ofwiild's Piiuting-Girice, No#
156. Ma-ktt-flrwei j at No. 2CQ, Market-Itrcet j
,»t M». Dpßfon's,' 4!, sccomMircet $ ac
Mr. C ukflunkf., yi, M.iikct-ftrect j ac Mr,
Aitlccft* 22, Maikc(-ftreet ; end at Mr. Young's
S. \V. c »rh«r of Chci'nut and $ecoud«ftfce r .*»
21." RINALDO'S COMPLAINT :
TO THE FAIR SHOPKEFPER.
[Imitatedfrom Sappho's Ock~\
CI URS'D as a beggar's dog is he,
/ The unlucky man that deals with
thee
Who (till behind the counter fit,
Steal our ca(h, and (how your wit.
Whate'er you praif'd. with fly design,
Whate'er you touch'd I naM it, mine—
And homespun trafJi from Nabby's paws
In your fair hands was liilh gauze
'T\v,u thL tliat made n-.c look so fad
t times ; and almost .an me mad.
For, ere I well could count the cost
My cash was gone, my credit lolt.
My girta grew vain—their dress ami
show
Alas! soon brought my pockets low,
With Engltfli iilka their (hce3 were bound,
The news went all the country round :
With confhnt dun 3 my doors were vcxt,
My house with fherifFs was perplext,
My barber's bill I could not pay,
I blunder'd, broke, and —ran away,
On the improbability of the mounUuns on tht
earth having originated from the rotation
of the earth, producing a centrifugal
force.
fTranfiated from the French J
THE motion of the earth around the
fun is supposed by philosophers to proceed
from an attradtive and projective pow"
combined, producing a uniform progress
of the earth in her orbit. But it appears
to me that the movement of a man walk
ing upon the ground might as well be ac
counted for upon these two principles as
iTis motion of til. earth. The centrifugal
and centripetal powen appear to me tc
have no more real exigence in the voi<
space of the heavens, than the imaginary
circles of the zodiac and the equator. How
ever capable thefs fuppvWd laws may bi
of answering every purpose, they are it:
fadt nothing more than a mere fiaffolding;
imagined by men of genius, whereby tt
ertti the fabric of natural science, but
wiiich never yet enabled them to penetrate
into the fanftuary of nature, any mori
than the fcari. I ling which we make use o:
in building our churches, enables us to pe
netrate into the fpi: it and efficacy ol tru<
leligion These combined powers hav(
110 more to do in causing the courfcs anc
motions cf the planets than the circles o:
the fphercare concerned in limiting theii
various degrees of eccentricity. In fadt
these supposed powers are no more thai
nere signs, invented to account for ohjcCti
. .iey ought to reprefent,-'tl>e.ja:ue as othei
arbitrary ligns, ot human inventiou.
If it was the centrifu al motion that threw
tip mountains upon the globe when it was it
a liquid Hate, i litre ou lit in reality to bi
mountains upon the earth vallly highei
than the Aii ies of Peru and Chili. Thi
mountain Chimboraco, near the equator
& which isthehigheft wethereknowof, ha:
only 3220 feet of elevation, or, according
to others, 3350 (for the calculations dc
riot exadtly agree in this particular).—
This degree of elevation is less sensible up
on the earth than the third patt ot a line
would be upon a globe fix feet diameter
Now a wnafs of melted metal, cast in an}
proportion whatever, would exhibit acci
dental protuberances much more consider
able on itsfurface, (in refpeft toitsdiame
ter) than any adtual inequalities 011 the
furface of the earth. Look at the rough
ness on a bit of the drof? of iron : whal
horrid figures and chasms t len would have
been formed on a globe of heterogeneous
melted matter of nearly three thoufanc
leagues in diameter? —According to Cai
fini, the moon, which is a much fmallei
globe than the earth, has mountains neai
three leagues in height—But what woulil
have been tliofe f veilings and cavities, il
we add to this heterogeneous mal's in a
melted state, a centrifugal force produced
by the rotation of the earth on it 3 axis ?
I believe this force, which mud have
afl'ed with most energy at the equator, in
stead of forming a globe would have pro
•liiccd bodies similar to the glass plates or
scales which we fee blown up in the glala
house.
The diameter of the earth is not great
er under the equator than under the meri
diasc ; nor are its mountains at or near
the equator more elevated than elfwl.ere.
The celebrated Amies of Peru do not take
their rife at the equator, but several de
grees beyond it to the fouthvvard, and ex
tending from thcnce to Peru. Chili, and
the Magcllannic regions, terminate at tlu
fifty fifth degree of south latitude, neai
Terra del Fuego where they front upon
the ocean in a promontory of eternal ice
of a stupendous height. In this whole
extent, they have no opening till yoi;
come to the ftreights of Magellan, form
ing in all other places an immense bulwark,
with pyramids of snow, inacceflible U
men, beasts, and even to birds. On the
contrary the mountains about the Till),
nus of Panama, in the vicinity of the line,
are not comparable to the Andes in height.,
and are even so far inferior, that Lord An
'on, who coalled the whole of South Ame
rica, relates, that when he came into this
latitude he experienced the moll violent
heats "owing (fays he) to the air not be
■ng any longer refrrfhed by the tempera
ture of the atmosphere fmm the higl
mountains of Chili and Peru".
The highell mountains in arc
conilantly found out of the torrid zone
That valt chain of mountains cnlled Tau
rus and Imaus begin in Africa at moun
Atlas, about the 30th de gree of nortl
latitude, and tiaverfe all \ftica, as wel
as Afi-, between t ; .l' and 40th de
grees of north h-t'i: *heir fuminit:
being generally e. ■ " ' t- .oughout th<
whole of this vail ex ent v\ snows tha l
are never thawed, which circumflance o
itfelf is proof of a y c t'-ie eleva
tion. Mount n«*t, n k-'spu
of this chain, is perhaps of a greater heigh
ti.anaiiy mountain of t'- w.>ild. il on:
may judge by the length of the time i
took Tuurnrfort, and othet travellers, t«
ascend from the base to the foot of thi
snows whieh covered the lummit ; 1.1 ■ -:
from the d'fbnce at which it may be per
ceived, which is at lead f days |onviKy o
the caravans, or about one hundred an'
twenty miles. The Pico of Teneriffe ma}
be teen 40 leagues. The mour.
tains, in Norway, called by some tin
northern Alps, are seen 50 leagues at sea
and, according to a learned Swede, theii
height is three ihouftnd fathoms. Tin
Picos of Spitfberg, New Zeland, thi
Alps, the Pyrennees, the Glaciers o
Switzerland, where ice is seen the whol
year round, are very high, and for tin
moll part remote from the equator. Nei
ther are their dire&ions uniformly pa
rallel to this circle, as rnuft have beci
the cafe, had the elevations of the eartl
called mountains been caused by the dinr
nal rotation of the globe; for, if the chair
of mountains known by the name of 1 111
rus extend:', in the old world, from well tt
cad, that of the Andes in the new conti
:,ent rum from north to south. Othei
chains again have other diredlions.—But
if this supposed centrifugal power in tlx
earth could heretofore raise mountains ti
the height we now fee them, why is ii
that at this time it is not capable of eleva
ting a flraw into the air ? fuppoliug this
principle to exill, no body whatever conk
remain on the furface of the earth —"Bu!
bodies are fixed (fays the Newtonian)
by the centripetal force, that is, by the
power of gravity."—l answer, if the.
power of gravity confine:; all bodies to the
level of the furface of the earthy why did
not the mountains themselves also obey
this law, having been originally in a liquid
Hate?—l fufpedl no answer can be made
to this lall difficulty.
puBL i'cTeFort s
FROM T H T
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
or THE
Government of the United States
CONGRESS,
Commencing with the prrfrvt Government, and end
ing with tlu close of the Sejjion of May J 792.
THIS work is intended 10 be printed in one
volume ntlavo, ellimated to contain between live
and (ix bundled pages, and will be dehveied to
fublciiberi in hoards at One Dollar and a half.
A complete collection ot ihe Reports into a
convenient and portable volume has been fug
. IK .1 to the publishers by several Members ol
IV, ;nid oilier gentlemen, and they are now
determined to proceed 011 with the work, provi
ded a competent number of fubfcribcis appeal
to patronue the undertaking.
Sublerii'tio. is are received by CHILDS and
SWAIN K, the publishers, No-acq, Market
flrret, I'»nh-■ 1 i;Mna, and by the principal liook
li. Hers in the United States. May 24.
For fr.tr at this Office, Sermons by
th; Rtv'd Dr. William Linn, of A r . York
Ftict 5/7 i-2.
Society f or cftablijhh'g, t/feful Munufactur 'J.
NOTICE is hereby given to the holders of
liock in the said society, that the following
u rangement has been made by the Deputy Go
irnor and Dircdors thereof, by a resolution ot
he eighteenth day of May, 1792-
The second inlhilment for the payment of fliarci
in the i>oc!c of this society, may be made in the
fotlowiug manner, viz.
The amount of the said second instalment, be
ing 20 13- 100 dollar* each (hare, may be p i 1 in
l!iree payments, on condition that tbe 1 at•-» 1 in
terest of 7 per cent, per annum, be calculated
and paid with each proportionate part of the laid
payment, that is to fay, on or before the thir
teenth day of August next, the fuin ot 6 71-100,
vith the addition of 12 cents, being the intcrcft
one month on 20 13-100 dollars—on or be
fore the 13th of September next, the sum of 6
'-100 dollars, with the addition or S ccnts, be
ing die intercft for one month on 13 42-100 dol
'ars——and on or before the 13th ot October next,
tli-: sum of 6 71-100 dollars, with the addition of
4. cents, being the interell on the l.ime for one
month. The laid payments are to be made at the
following places, viz. In the city ot
at the bank of the United States—at New-Crunl
wick, in New- ferity, to Join Bayard, or Jonn
N'cillon, F.fqts—and in the city of New-York, at
•lie bank of New-Yoik, or either of the laid
■ lace,, which may be molt convenient to the
itock holder*.
By Older of the direction,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerkv
July 24. "•
To be pubUJhed by Subfcription t
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Old (Jo nywJj,
From their firlt Meeting in September 1774,
to their final dii Volution in March 1789,
COMPRISING at full length, every impor
iant reiolution, order, address, declaration s
■Sect contained in the thirteen volumes of then
, mrnals—a concise summary of the less intereft
in: pa»ts,—an alphabetical lift of appointments,
p m«,ti -ns and relignations—a colledive viewin
m • nualic expenuitures, &c. &c. —the whole in
ten M to fervc as a tatisfadory substitute lor the
original journals, which are now out of print, and
>i which the entire fubOance, un incumbered with
oTicial formalities and repetitions, will here be
[{iven in about one fbuith of their present bulk,
accompanied with »nt complete genera. Index: --
To which will be added, a copious and valuable
collection of original
tJlate
from the Records and Files of Congrcfs,
Containing (either verbatim,or in ablh
as the cases may Icverally require) fuel) intcreii
ing pieces referred to in the journals, as may with
propriety be permitted to be made public, vi/.
Letters from the different officers employed in
the public service during the lare war—intercept
ed letters of the enemy—communications from
governors, ftatc legislatures, conventions, an I
committees—diipatchtl from agents and com
milhonert.—inftrudions--- reports of committees
il'Congrefs} and vari us other authentic docu
ments, tending to throw a light on the important
events, to which America owes her present inde
pendcnce.
In the course of the work, will be introduced,
in their proper place?, fuel) parts of the
<tfccrct ,
as no longer require secrecy.
As soon as 500 copies are fubferibed for, the
work will be put 10 press, to be delivered to fab
le fibers, in numbers of 304 o.tavo pages each, at
Om k Dollar, in bine boards. The Sub -
fcription will not be required for the liril
Number, until tiie publication is begun ; and
,n the delivery of each number, half a dollar will
be expected in advance for the succeeding one,
To non-fubferibers, the price will be raised.
Subscr 1 ption9 will be received by the prin
cipil booksellers throughout the Union, and by
the Editor.' " JOHN CAREY.
No. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
FOR SALE,
A ROUT 100,000 acres of Land, lying neai
Whiteftown, in the (late of New-York, on
,ne north fide of the Mohawk liver, adjoining
Mobleborough, and will be fold cither in pareda
or together, as may suit the purchasers.
N. B. The above trad of land is of the firfr
quality in the Hate, chiefly timbered with beach
and maple, well watered, and contains many mill
feats. The peculiar advantages of thin trad, situ
ated within a few miles of Whitcftown (which
-ontains upwards of fivo thouland iuhabitants)
ivith an easy and convenient water carriage to
Schenedady, Albany, and New-York, make it an
übjed for any persons inclined to feitlcit, and ren-
Jer it an extremely advantageous purchase tor
pei lons inclined to realize thoir money in land ot
ad encrealing value. The whole trad or any part
of it, will be fold very low for calh, or for part
cafli, and the remaining payments at distant peii
nds. Enquire at N». 229 Qoeen-ftreet, near the
Fly-market*
July 19.
Georfit Tow», June 2, 1792.
A NUMBER of LOTS in every situation
which may be desired in the city of Waih
ingcon, will be offered for sale, by the Cojnmif-
Jioners on Monday the Bth day of Odober next.
One fourth part of the purchase money to be
paid down, the relidue in three equal annual pay
ments, with yearly interclt on the whole princi
pal unpaid. JOHN M. OA NTT,
J uty 25* OicHt 10 the
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale at the Prmting-Oflice,
No. 209, Market-Street,
anil at Thomas Dobfon's Book-Storein
Second-Street,
Price Three-Eigktlu of a Dollar,
ADVICE
TO THE
PRIVILEGED ORDERS,
in the
SEVERAL STATES of EUROPE,
Refiilting from the neceflity and pro
priety of a General Revolution in
the Principle of Government.
By Joel Barlow, Esquire.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Subscriber has it in contemplation foois
to decline his present bufinef* —and having on
(land a confiJcrable quantity of fuperfine second
ind elaitic cloths, together with a variety of other
uticles in his way, proposes to fell them at the
'ollowin reduced pees, VIZ.
Belt Superfine navy blue 34f.
Ditto, ditto. Scarlet 36/,
Common colours fuperfine 32/.
Elaftie ftrlpes $/. ,
London buff and white caflimers 1576. *
Ditto, coloured do. 15f.
Yorklhire do. do. '3/6.
Striped toilenets 14J.
Rittinets 3
Striped Nankeens : 3/4.
A variety ofwaificoat shapes proportionally lowr
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London bell silk hose, from 22/6 to 24f.
The above goods have been mostly imported from
one of the fir ft mercantile houses in London, and
are of an equal quality oany imported intoAmc
ricaj they will be fold per piece or smaller quantity
as may best suit the purchafcrs , by ihe public*
mod humble servant, JOHN SHEPHERD.
Any person difpnfed to purchase the whole
of the above Hock, may also have on reasonable
terms his prfcfent dwelling house together with
the store, a more eligible situation for business in.
the tailor's line la not to be found in this city.
The advantage of this business being so well efta-*
blifticd by the proprietor will b: very grat, ani
from well known fadls, needs no comment.
A lease of fix years may be had of the house.
May 14, 2aw.tf.
B O O K S,
Printed and fold by
MAT HE W CARE Y, 1
No. li 8, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
I. Amerrcan Museum, from its commcneement
Tbit work, which is noio concluded on an tm
in January 1787, to June 1792, in eleven volume;
Price, neatly bound and lettered, Seventeen dollars
ind three sis ths*
'Ibis work which is uow Conduced on an im
proved plan, C9ittaining the best pieces publijhedfor
ind againd the proceedings of gcuePnment, no ill be
found to contain at h jfl as great a variety of pcli~
'ical, agricultural, a> dmijcellaneous rjjays, as any
tver publijhed in America, Perhaps in no one work
are so many valuable documents rejpetling the hijlc
ry of this country, collcElcd together. His excel
lency the Prefidcnt of the United States, has de
dared of it, that " a more ufeful literary plan
lus never beta undertaken in America, nor one
more deferring ot public encouragement.'* The
übfeription is two dollars and a half per annum.
Gentletren in the country -who wiftj to be fuppl'ied
with this work, are rcqucflcd to givy commijjion t9
friends in the city to fubjeribe for and receive it.
2 • S*iitbi letters to married womeu, on nurfxng
■jnd the managtmeiit of children. uWe recommend
these letters to tea pcrufal of tbofe to whom they a>c
birttcularly add'e[icJ. % Monthly Review. Vol. 3 ',
Pagt 101. Price bcuvdftve eighths of a dollar.
Duncan's elements of logic, three fourths of a
loliar.
4. Beauties 9f Fielding, 50 cents.
beauties of Blair, 50 cents,
b. Ladles* Pocicct Library—containing :—Mifs
Mere"s Ejfays J Gregory's Legacy j Lady Pen
nington's ad vice ; Marchionejs of Lambert's ad
vice j Swift's letter to a newly married lady ;
Mrs. Chaponv n command of temper j Mart's fa
bles for th ■ l.i.Hts P> e 6/6.
7. Smith's Hiltory of New-York. Puice a dol
lar and a Quarter.
7, Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
ie, L.L.n. frofejjor of moral philojcphy and logic
iu the Alariji hat College, Aberdeen—Price three
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Critical Re
viewers (vol. 69. p, fay : " IVe have Jee/t
nothing on these fuljecis more plain f more pcrfpicu
us, or more genera ly ufeful."
9. Beauties of Poetry, Price four fifths of a
doliar.
10. Blair's Sermons,-- Vricetwo dollars.
11. Nechai's Treatise on the importance of reli
gious opinions. Price four fifths of a dollar,
is Examination of the objervations cf Lord Shef
field on Amcr'::an Commerce, Price, on very fine
paper, five eighths cf a dollar,
13. The Confutations of the several United States,
with the federal Conjfitution, &c. Price fvi
:ightbs of a dollar,
14 Ms ingal, Price three eighths of a dollar,
15. American Jelt Buok, three fifths of a
dollar,
16. Garden of the Soul, half & dollar,
17. The Don ay Tranjljtion of the vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto. Price, e egantly Oound and lettered,
50/2 —plain, fix dollars*
Said Carey has for sale, a large affcrtmcnt of
Locks, European as well as American editions,
■ichich he toill tiifpof son 'he inoft reafnabu- terms,
Country gtnr.'cii.e'i, who favor him with commands,
nay def end upon lu nr.r j:/p'-l id in the rnojlJat'qfac
to/y niai ner. A a. ' i'jance tO such as pur
chase quantities for pubLc libraries, or to Jell again.
May 17. 6m. ia.w.
PRINTED BY
GUILDS and SWA IN E,
AT TNI I H OK TI C £ N 0,. 209, UIGU-S J'K£W
r!FTM-ITK I KiT >
r >111 A VZ IT HI .*«