Vol, I.
AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
O F THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft ur( / ( *r the city o
ftrJadelphia, in the Mate of Pennfylvanii
or. Monday the twenty-fourth of October, on<
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT to extend the time limited for fet
tling the Accounts of the United State:
with the individual States.
BE it enacted by the Sen atejzWHousi
of Representatives of theUmtei
States of America, in Congress afembled
That the powers of the Boards o
Commissioners whi«h,by an ast palled ii
the second leffion of the fir ft Congress
was established to fettle the account
between the United States and indivi
dual states, shall continue until the sirs
day of July one thousand seven hundrec
and ninety three, unless the bufinei
shall be sooner accomplilhed.
And be il further enabled, That the
aforefaid ast shall extend to the fettle
mentof the accounts between the Uni
ted States and the State of Vermont
and that until the firft day of Decembei
next shall be allowed for the said Stati
to exhibit it's claims.
And be it further enaEled, That fron
and after the passing of this ast, the pa)
of the principal clerk of the said Boart
shall be the fame as the pay of the prin
cipal clerk in the Auditor's office.
Jonathan Trdmbu 11, Speaker of tk
House of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President of tk
United States, and Prefiden
of the Senate.
Atrpnrved January t&cnty-ihird, try-..
G. WASHIBSTOt, President of the
United States.
Mr. Freneau,
lObferved in one of your late paper
the request of some gentlemen in Vir
ginia to be t'urniihed with a copy of thi
Constitution of the Philadelphia Count;
Society for the promotion of Agriculture
For the information of those gentlemen
please to insert in yonr ufeful paper th<
following
" CONSTITUTION of the Philadel
phia County Society for the promo
tion of AGR CULTURE and DO
MESTIC MANUFACTURES.
"1. THE objects of this fociet)
shall be the promotion of agriculture
and domestic manufactures ; and ii
shall be filled The Philadelphia Count)
Society for the promotion of Agriculture arte
Domeflic Manufactures.
"2* No man shall be eligible, as '<
member, but a farmer.
"3. The members, of which thi;
l'ociety is to be composed, are to be ol
two kinds, viz. residing members, anc
corresponding members : the refidins
members must live within the count)
of Philadelphia, as it now Hands ; the
corresponding members may be chofer
from any part of the state, or othei
place, and shall have a right to attend
cur meetings, but have no vote.
"4, New members may be eleftec
by ballot at any stated meetings of th«
society, provided they have been pul
in nomination at a preceding meeting
and an entry thereof made on the mi
nutes of the society ; but no candidate
mull be present at his own election.
"5. The stated meetings of the so
ciety shall be on the firft Monday in
every month, at such placc as the soci
ety shall appoint at their annual meet
ings ; and all business to be done on
each day, must be tranfafted between
the hours of two and fix in the after
noon, and no business to be done after
wards.
"6. The officers of the society shall
be a president, vice-president, treasurer,
and secretary, who shall be cholen an
nually by ballot on the firft Monday
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhcd Mondays and Thursdays, al Three Dollars per annum
MONDAY, February 20, 1792.
in November, which day shall be called
our annual meeting ; but in cafe of the
death, resignation, or removal of any
of the officers of the society, others
may be defied at a subsequent meeting,
to Serve out ui<6 tM«C or Such officer
jfficers, in whole place he or they were
rholen.
"7. If any accident shall happen
"uch as the want of a quorum, neglect
>r other unforefeen cause, so ai to pre
/ent an elcftion taking place at our an
lual meetings, in that cafe the officer:
nuft be conlidered asjremainingjin office
jrttil the society shall eledt others ir
Lheir places for the remainder of the
year.
"8. In Cafe of the rion-attendaftc<
:>f any officers of the society, so as to
jievent the proceeding to business
others may be appointed pro tempore.
"9. The prefidentj and in his ab
ence the vice-prelident, shall exercif
he usual duties of that office*
" 10. The treasurer shall keep al
he monies and securities of the lociety
md shall keep the accounts methodi
rally stated in a book procured for tha
jurpofe, and when called upon, pro
luce them for infpeftion ; and Ihal
jay all orders of the president, orothei
jerfons who may draw on him by the
lireftion of the society ; and also, a
:he last meeting before his time expire
or at any other meeting, when callee
Dn) he shall produce a regula
account of all receipts,
and payments, and deliver it, togethe
>vith the books and all the property o
he society, to his fucccffor in office
3r to the orders of the society.
"11. The secretary shall have ii
:harge all other books and papers, anf
■icrp't.hcm in good order ; ' and ltwn
accurately all the proceedings of the so
ciety, as well as letters written and re
ceived; and allow free access to an'
member who may deiire to peruse thi
fame.
" 12. Every residing member on ad
million, shall lign these articles, an<
pay a lilver dollar ; and also, the lik<
[um annually shall be paid by all refid
ing members, towards defraying th<
neceflary expences of the society ; ant
:very member, whose contribution fhal
be found to be more than two years ir
arrear, after the fame shall be due
jrovided payment has been perfonall)
demanded of him by the treasurer, or ;
:olleQ:or authorised by him for tha
.jurpole, such member shall be ccnli
lered as withdrawing from the society
ind no longer be deemed a member, anc
he fame lhall be entered on the mi
lutes ; and if any new residing mem
aer, after being notified of his eleftior
ay the secretary, in writing (whose bu
siness it will be to give him such notice
hall not appear, lign the articles, anc
pay his entrance-money within three
months after such notification, or fern;
in that time a fatisfaftory excuse in
writing, he shall be conlidered as no!
having accepted of a membership a
nong us.
" 13. Whenever any residing mem
ber shall remove out of the diftrift ol
which this society shall be composed.
be shall from thenceforward be conli
dered a corresponding member; and
so, when a corresponding member shall
remove, and come to live within the
diftrift, on paying one dollar, and sign
ing the articles asaforefaid, he shall be
considered a residing member ; but nc
person shall pay entrance money more
:han once.
"14. Whenever any motion is made
in the society, that will tend either di
rettly, or in its consequences, to dis
pose of the funds of the society (ordi
nary contingent expences excepted)
luch motion mull lay on the minutes
until the next stated meeting, before
the question can be taken.
" 15. The society shall have a right
to make such other officers, and ap
point such committees, as may forward
tind promote the views and objects oi
the inflitution ; and fliall alio have a
light to make such by-laws, rules 01
regulations, for its government anc
good order, as may appear necessary
provided they are not derogatory tt
this constitution.
"16. A quorum for ordinary bufi
ness shall coniift of at least five mem
bers for the present; but at our annua
meetings, the society shall always hav<
a right to reduce or augment the nam
ber neceirary to form a quorum ; anc
shall also have power to alter the ftatec
days of meeting both as to time ant
place ; or to increase or diminish th<
number of such meetings, provided ;
motion for that purpose has been made
and entered on the minutes, at any pre
ceding meeting in the la ft year.
" 17. All bufmefs defigncd by thi;
conflitution, or other by-laws, to be
done at our annual meeting, may, if ;
quorum does not meet, be dene at the
next full Hated meeting.
" 18. Any gentleman attached tc
the ufeful fcicnce of agriculture, whe
has a desire to be present at a meeting
of the society, may be introduced by 1
member;
" ig; At the annual meetings of the
society, on the firft Monday in Novem
ber, this constitution, if deiired by
member, mav be revised, and propo
sals may be made for its alteration, a
mendment, or any addition to it ; which
must lay on the minutes until the nexi
stated meeting, when they may be ta
ken up and conlidered, and paifed (ei
ther as they stand, cr with such altera
tions as will not make them entirel)
n?w, or materially alter the firft inten
tion of iucTi prooofals) provided twe
thirds of the members present agree
but all other questions in the fociet)
[hall be determined by a majority ol
voices ; and also, elections for officers
[except the appointment of committee:
tor temporary business) fhallbe by ballot
" Extract from the minutes,
" Edward Du f r ield, junior, Sec'ry
! Philadelphia County, Aug. 4, 1788."
Since the eflablifliment of this society, the
leighbourhood has evidently derived ad
/aatage from the institution, not more
roin a reciprocal communication of ufe
:ui experiments and observations, thar
rom the use of a valuable agricultural
librafy, colle&ed by the society, and kepi
it their place of meeting. \ou will ob
erve by the 12th. Art. of the constitution.
:hat " every residing member, on admif
iion, {hall lign these articles and pay a fil
ler dollar . and also the like film annual
ly." The society have thought it propel
to appropriate their funds towards procu
ring a collection of ufeful books for the in
formation of the members, rather than be
stowing their funds in premiums whicl
ire frequently mi.lipplied.
In the present situation of public affairs,
tis highly proper that the yeomanrj
should nave stated meetings in every pari
of the United States, not only for promo
ting agricultural knowledge, by whict
their foil may be rendered the most pro
ductive pollible, but to flimulate and en
courage each other to support their right:
3i men.
A. FARMER
LONDON. Nov. 30.
We, in Europe, are now all at peace, one
with another, therefore have time to re
tieft on the horrors of -war. We have lei
sure to look into our affairs at home, and
to coniider of the consequences of our pall
enormous folly, in seconding the prince ol
the power of the air, by our gun powder,
in the deftruftion of mankind.
What, in the name of God! (for it is
here not taken in vain) have we been about,
and for what ends, within this century,
in this hellish business ! we have excited
(by the means of money, or large stipends
to too many dissolute officers, and some
finall pittance to the tools of war, and by
the promise of glory, like that which Mil
ton formed for Satan in Pandemonium) fe
deral hundred thousand men, unknown to
Numb. 33.
?ach other---to blow each other to atoms:
to make a milhon of widowsand more or
phans—to leave the cultivation of lands
to a peasantry beggared by the taxes(raifed
for the lupport of these horrors)—to press
down the hands of industry and commerce
by the faiiie burden s—to increase the num
ber ot poor, of course, in all our different
di!tncrs---to mal;e the rich callous to
their cr:e-., through the frequency and
the loudnefi of them, and deaf to all con
uderatfone, befdes their own interest, and
the feturities on which they place it-- —
and, as the center-Hone in this ufeful arch
to al.enate the minds of Christians (for we
an, except the Turks, pretend to be such)
cordially from each oiher, at home and a
broad. In fb.Ort, to reduce one third part
of ourfelvfes to the nature of tigers, ano
nier third to that offubtle serpents, and the
remainder into the condition of Ihorn
lambs, trembling at the violence of the
fii it, anc. the political hypocrisy of the se
cond fort of brutes.
Is no: the above a true piclure of some
of the consequences or all our wars ! our
histories, our gazettes, our annual lilts of
our armies and navies, our hospitals, our
lame and wounded poor, our lone re
giflers of half-relieved paupers, our un
do* hed peasants, our accumulation of
farms into one, our extensive round of
taxes and duties, on almost all the necessa
ries of life ; our annual pofTeflion of a hun
dred thousand negroes to support our lux
uries ; our unbounded, barren wastes ; the
pel petual enormous drains of money for
our large useless Handing armie-, and our
jotting fleets, both far better employed in
husbandry and commerce ; and, to wind up
the tale, our increasing funds, all compole
such a conitel.ation of evidence againftwar,
that madness alone, tho' under some sober
malk, mult: have been the occasion of such
wars m Europe, contrary to the plan and
repeated command of her C od in his word;
contrary to the dictates of reason in our
heads, and of humanity in our hearts :
contrary to tie natiOlls, except
the fla\ es ot Mahomet ; and diredtly a
gjiinlt the present and eternal interest of
almolt every individual in a christian ffate !
1 hole who are callous enough to defend
the {lave trade in cool blood, with our
pai liamentary evidence in their hands, are
alone; fit to defend the horrors of war.
But iomething active must be done, to de
it at the root. What then is to be
advised P V\ ould this counsel be amiss t
It not, take it, whence it comes is no mat
ter of consequence, whether from a Prince
or a Plebeian.
I. Dilband all your armies, and turn
yourfh.ps of war, of every kind, into mer
chant iljps, by common consent. 2. Train
all your mails from 16 to 60 (except ma
giffrates quakers, priests, and physicians)
to the U se of arms, for home defence,
one month in every year. 3. Make a
league together, and call it the league of
tuiope— 1 hat, if any one of the pow
ers fliall employ any force against another,
° n ""J ,?" ounc whatsoever, befkics for
mere felf-defence, with regard to life, li
berty, or property, the reft fliall join against
the offending power, and reduce it to rea
n lor the common good ; after holding a
congress of the powers, by their ambassa
dors, to discuss the cause of offence, and
having a majority of the congress for such
reduction. 4. Plough up your wastes by
your cashiered armies; thefailors will fall,
of course, into the line of commerce. 5.
Encourage all fefts to spread scriptural, spi
ritual, rational religion; and despise all
forms ( which are mere shadows) in compa
nfon of it; making the love of God and
man the beginning, middle, and end of all
your views, Thus, and thus alone, shall
the God of peace be with you all for ever !
ExtraSl of a Utter from Vienna, Nov. 12.
" The fever, which carried off Prince Potem
kin, flill makes great ravages in the Ruflian ar
my, a great part of which is attacked by it. The
two generals, Sanioilow and Ribas, who have
been sent by the empress as her miniflers to
the Congrels for making peace, are at the point
of dealh. Ihe Reis Effendi, and his interpreter,
Munrifi, who is to be Hcfpodar of Moldavia,
are also attacked with ihe t iforder, and the lat
ter is given over ; the openirg of the Congress
For fettling peace is lheiefore poflponed."
The home mir.ifler of France has announced
to the city of Pans, and to several of the depart
ments, the king's intention to receive two vo
lunteers from each battalion of Parisian national
guards, and three from each depaitment into the
:orps of guards for his peifon.PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
■HOUSE of representatives.
Wednesday, Feb. 15.
The bill, from the Senate, relative to the
election of a Prefiderlt and Vice-Prelident
of the United States, and declaring the of
ficer who shall ast as President, &c. toge
ther with the amendments, was read a third
time, pafled, and notification thereof made
to the President
The bill sent from the Senate, " For re
gulating processes in the courts of the Uni
ted States, and providing compensations
for the officers of the said courts, and ror
jurors and witnefles," was twice read, and
committed to a feleft committee.
A petition of William Jackson, late cap
tain in the South-Carolina line, and aid-de
camp to major-general Lincoln, was read,
praying to receive additional pay, alloWed
by a former a£t of Congress, to officers of
the line acting as aids-de-camp.
Several other petitions were also read,
praying relief, reimlntrfements, &c. which
were ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Smith (S.C.) moved for the second
reading of a memorial, presented 0:1 the
23d of December last. from sundry mer
chant'. of South-Carolina, praying relief in
cotifequence of having been obliged to re
ceive payments in depreciated paper cur
rency, during the war, and o pay their
Britifli creditors in fpecie —Ordered to be
committed to a committee of the whole
House on the state of the Union.
The House then, in committee of the
whole, proceeded to the further conlider
ai.ion of the Representation bill, (Mr.
Smith, S.C. in the chair.) -The question
b.-ing taken 011 a motion to substitute the
si.-st day of Oftobar, 1792, as the period for
an increase in the reprefentation —it pafled
in the negative. —A motion was made, by
Mr. Vining, to apportion the Representa
tives as follows: New-Hampshire, five;
MalTachufetts, sixteen; Vermont, three;
Rhode-Island, two; Connecticut, eight;
New-York.eleven: New-Jerfey,fix; Penn
sylvania, fourteen ; Delaware, two ; Ma
ryland, nine; Virginia, twenty-one ; Ken
tucky, two; North-Carolina, twelve;
Georgia, two.
After some time spent in debating on the
bill, and proportions, the chairman of the
committee reported progref^—upon which
the House resolved to take up the fame
again to-morrow, in committee of the
whole.
Thursday, Feb. 16.
A resolution was moved by Mr. Grove,
for appointing a committee to bring in a
bill for building a light-house 011 Baldhead
Island, at the mouth of Cape Fear river,
in North-Carolina.
A resolution was laid on the table by Mr.
Macon, that the Comptroller of the Trea
sury be directed to lay before the House a
statement of the balances remaining unpaid,
which may have been owing byindividuals
to the United States, previous to March
4th, 1789, and to inform the House, whe
ther any and what steps have been taken to
recover the fame ; and also to furniih a
statement of sundry funis of public money
entrusted to individuals, previous to the
said 4th of March, 1789, and not yet ac
counted for.
The House then, in committee of the
whole, proceeded to the further considera
tion of the Representation bill, Mr. Smith
(S.C.) in the chair.
After some debate on Mr. Vining's mo
tion of yesterday, an amendment was pro
posed by Mr. Benfon, to the firft section of
the bill, viz. That after the 3d of March
1793, the House of Representatives be com
posed of " a number of members equal to
the quotient of the whole number of per
sons in the States included in the union, di
vided by 30,000, which members shall there
fore be" elected within the several states
according to the following apportionment,
&c. After some debate, the question being
taken on Mr. Benfou's motion, it was ne
gatived—yeas, 24; nays, 33.
The committee then rose, reported pro
gress. See. —and the House adjourned till
tomorrow.
Friday, Feb- 17.
Mr. Speaker laid before the House the
tranllation of a letter from Moniieur Mo
rel, containing a project for civilizing the
Indians; which was read and ordered to
lie on the table
The House then resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole, on the represen
tation bill,—Mr. Smith(S.C.) in the chair
After some debate on the apportionment
of representatives, the committee agreed
to fettle it us follows : New-Hampihire,
4; MalTachufetts, ij; Vermont, 2;
Rhodelfland, 2 ; Connecticut, 7 ; New-
York, 11 ; New-Jersey, 5 ; Pennsylvania,
14 ; Delaware, 1 ; Maryland, 9 ; Vir
ginia, 21 ; Kentucky, 2 ; North Carolina,
11 ; Georgia, 2.
An amendment was made to the firft
section of the bill, setting forth that the
members are to be elected "agreeably to
:he ratio o* one e for cverj
rhirty thouland inhabitants in eachflate,
computed according to the rule prescribed
by the confhtutlori
A motion was made to flrike out the
second feftion, which provides for a ie
cond enumeration ;—it bein;j; thought t:n
neceflary to fubjeft the United States to the
expense of a new census at so early a pe
riod as was contemplated.
It being alledged however, that there i>
reason to suppose the late census not accu
rately taken, on account of an unwil'.ing
nefs in m&ny heads of families, from 2
mifappi'ehenfion of the object in view, to
make a true declaration of the number oi
their refpeftive households ; —lt beinc
likewise tho't necefl'ary to give those states.
which now labour under a disadvantage
from unreprefenteci fractions of people, tc
gain an equivalent advantage from the en
creafe of population,—the motion was ne
gatived.
It was then agreed, that the next enu
meration ihail commence on the ift Mon
dav of January, in the year 1-96, and bt
closed within 6 calendar months; after
which, the returns fliall be made to the
President of the United States by the mar
(halls of the several diftrifts, within 2 ca
lendar months. The marfhalls are, in
in their returns, to note the sexes and co
lours of the free persons, and to diftinguifl
the free males of lixteen years from those
under that age. In other particulars, the
mar (halls and their afiiftants are to be
bound by like oaths, vested by like pow
ers, governed by like regulations, fubjefl.ec
to like penalties and recoveries, and enti
tled to like compensations, as prescribed b)
the former ast-
A motion made by Mr. Hillhoufe to a
mend the third feition, by limiting the re
presentation [from the 3d of March 179-
to 100 members to be appointed among the
several states, according to their respective
numbers—was, without any debate, nega
tived ; after which,
The committee reported progrcf,, anc
obtained leave to fit again.
The following refolution —laid on the ta
ble by Mr. White, on the 2:th of lad
month, 011 the occalion of a difference o]
opinion respecting the propriety of liavinj
the doors of the House open during the de
bates on the Frontier Bill—was called up
and agreed to ; Yeas, 23 ; Nays 18
Resolved, That it be a (landing order o:
this House, that whenever conftdentia
communications are received from the Pre
fident of the United States, the House flial
be cleared of all persons, except the mem
bers and the clerk, and so continue durinj
the reading of such communications, anc
during all debates and proceedings to b<
had thereon : and that when the Speaker
or any other member, fliall inform th>
House that he has a communication t<
make, which, he conceives ought to be kepi
secret, the House fliall in like manner be
cleared, until the communication be made
and the House fliall then determine whe
ther the matter communicated requires fe
crefy, or not, and take order accordingly.
It waspropofed, that, on such occalion
the door-keeper ihould be admitted : —i
was also proposed, that the sergeant at arm
ihould be permitted to remain : —but neith
cr propolition was agreed to.
Adjourned.
For the National Gazette.
' SPIRIT OF GOVERNMENTS.
NO Government is perhaps reducible t<
a sole principle of operation. When
the theory approaches neareit to this cha
rafter, different and often heterogeneou
principles mingle their influence in the ad
ministration. It is ufeful nevertheless t<
analyse the several kinds of government
and to characterize them by the spirit whicl
predominates in each.
Montesquieu has resolved the great oper
ative principles of government into tear
honor, and virtue, applying the firft to pun
defpotifins, the second to regular monar
chies, and the third to republics. The por
tion of truth blended with the ingenuity o
this system, fufficiently jultifies the admira
tion bestowed on its author. Its accuracy
however can never be defended against the
criticisms which it has encountered- Mon
tesquieu was in politics not a Newton or ;
Locke, who eftabliflied immortal systems
the one in matter, the other in mind. He
was in his particular science what Bacor
was in universal science : He lifted the vei
from the venerable errors which enflavec
opinion, and pointed the way to those lu
minous truths of which he had but a glimpse
himfelf.
May not governments be properly divi
ded, according to their predominant (pirii
and principles into three species of whicl
the following are examples ?
Firjl. A government operating by a per
manent military force, which at once main
tains the government, and is maintained b\
it; which is at once the cause of burden:
on the people, andnf fubmifliou in the peo
ple to their burdens. Such have been tlit
governments under which human nature
has groaned through every age. Such are
the governments which ltill oppress it in
almost «-very country of Furope. the ninr
ter of the globe which calis itfelf the pat
tern of civilization, and the p.-ide of hu
manity.
Secondly. A government operating b;
corrupt influence : substituting the motive
of private interest in place of public duty ;
converting its pecuniary d.fpenfations intc
bounties to favorites, or bribes to oppo
nents ; accommodating its measures to th<
avidity of a part of the nation instead of tin
benefit of the whole : in a word, enliftin;
an army of interefled partizans, whoti
tongues, whose pens, whose intrigues, am
whose active combinations, by fupplyin;
the terror of the sword, may support a rea
domination of the few, under an apparen
liberty of the many. Such a government
wherever to be fount}, is an impostor. I
is happy for the new world that it is not 01
the weft fide of the Atlantic. It will bi
both happy and honorable for the Ullitei
States, if they never tC iiiim'.c tin
costly pageantry of its form, nor betra;
themlelves into the venal spirit of its ad
minHtration,
Thirdly. A government, deriving its ener
yy from the will of the focietv, and opera
Ling by the reason of its measures, on tht
tioderf landing and interest of the society
such is the government for which philofo
phy has been searching, and humanity beei
lighing, from the molt remote ages. Sue!
are the republican governments which it i
the glory of America to have invented, am
her unrivalled happiness to poflefs. Ma;
her glory be compieated by every improve
ment on the theory which experience ma;
teach ; and her happiness be perpetuatec
by a system of administration correfpondinj
with the purity of the theory.
February 18, 1792.
WORCESTER, Feb 2-
A correspondent observes, that, " without an;
comment on the principle of the present unhapp;
Indian war v as a righteous one is frequently con
demned, through ignorance, l'o a pretext is neve
wanting to countcnance one that is unjust) thi
laconick and humane addrefi of the 1 ifiaffagi
Chief to his victorious warriors in the late un
fortunate conflict, who generously called then
off from the bloody pursuit, commanding then
to let the fugitives escape, for they had killec
enough, exprclles greater dignity of ftntiment
and magnanimity of foul, than is recorded~m~th
annals of ancient or modern hiflory. And 1
premiums are generously beflowed on him tha
bravely rescues one unfertuuate vidUm from def
truition, what diltinguifhed mark of honor doe
that man deserve, who respites hundreds of hi
fellow beings from impending ruin ! Who, in th
proud moment of victory, can nobly check th
deflroying impulse, laying,-- thus far (halt thoi
£0, and no farther----and here ihail thy prou<
triumphs be flayed !
" With due deference to a most laudable in
ftitution, 1 would propose that, as a teftimonis
of gratitude for the prei'ervation of our furvivinj
friends, a gold medal be presented to the MifTaf
lago Chief, representing in proper hieroglyphic
this heroic a(S of mercy, with the following in
Icription parccre viElis, ifjam vittoriam sup
erat."
ALBANY, Feb. 6.
By a g ntleman who palll-d through this towi
on Friday, on his way to the feat of government
from Niagara, which place he left the Bth ult
we have received the following serious infor
malion which may be depended on. He fay
the British have 2 new schooners which wer
launched lad fuinmer carrying each )8 si:
pounders, and a gaily carrying a 32 pounder 11
the bow, all laying at Detroit; and that they ar
collecting materials at the fame place for build
ing a large ship immediately---that 2500 barrel
more of proviiions and ammunition have pafle
the carrying placea Niagara this fall, than an
year since the peace—for what purpole tim
will unfold—lt will be but juflice, however
to add, that our informant was in the garrison a
Niagara soon after the defeat of our army—am
that the British officers appeared to fympathiz
in our misfortune wirh a great deal of sincerity
It is supposed that nest of implacable bloo
dy-minded loyalists who are strung alon;
upon the great lakes, have been the prin
cipal cause of exciting such a general fpi
rit for war among the Indians.
BALTIMORE, Feb. 16.
Last Sunday evening came to this town
a young man from Cat-Fish, which he lef
about two weeks ago, and who gave us tht
following pleasing, interesting, and impor
tant intelligence, viz. That two days be
fore he left Cat-Fish, two men arrivet
there from Licking, who informed thai
they had been out with a body of 130 c
volunteers on horseback from Kentucky
under Gen. Scott---that they left Licking
on the expedition a few days before Christ
mas—that General Scott dispatched three
spies in advance, who, when they arrivec
ttiirteen miles beyond the spot where Gen
neral St. Clair was defeated, discovered ;
large body of Indians, diverting and enjoy
ing themselves with the plunder they hat
taken; riding the bullocks, dancing, See.
and appeared to be moltly drunk—that or
this informatiou being given to Gen. Scott
who, with the main body, was a few mile:
in the rear, he distributed them into three
divisions, advanced, and fell on the enemy
by urprize—that the ronteft was Short
but victorious on the f!de of the votunteerSj
■!00 of the enemy being killed on the spot,
all the cannon and stores in their pofteiiioti
retaken, and'the remainder of the savage
body put to flight-—that General Scott,
having loft but fix men, returned to Lick
ing in triumph, with ixioft of the cattle,
stores, &c. leaving the cannon at Fort Jef
ferfon That General Scott had previ
ously gone out with 400 mev), but finding
his number inefficient was returning, but
met a body of 900 volunteers, who upon
joining him, he immediately proceeded in
prosecution of his original deiign, \vii,ch
fortunately proved fuccefsful.
Our informant further adds, that he saw
a Kentucky newspaper of the Bth of Janu
ary, at Morgan-town, brought by Major
Reed, containing the account of General
Scott's expedition, which corresponded
with that given by the two men at Cat-Fish,
and that General Scott brought in near vo*
ica'ps. tlialUmcrc Rcp-Jitory.]
PHILADELPHIA.
February 20, 1792.
We hear from Windsor, Vermont, that
enlisting orders have been received in that
state, to raise recruits for the western ar
my, and that a rendezvous was to be open
ed at Bennington about the 29th ultimo.
The gallant General StArks, in the
Indian wars previous to the revolution ?
commanded a company of rangers, coin
poled of hardy huntlinen, who could endure
the cold, wet, and fatigue ; and knew how
to fight the Indians in their own way.
When he was told that we had fuftaineo a
heavy loss in the late defeat of our frontier
army, he replied, that he lamented the fall
of so many excellent officers but could not
think the country fultained any loss by the
killing of two-dollar-Mem.
Late accounts from Fiance fay, that the
ture between the French and the Algennes, is
like to be amicably prevented, •' When the
Dey found the National Aflembly were adopt
ing decisive mealures againll him, he fohched a
continuation of peace with a degree of ferviiity,
and in a IHle of placability hitherto unknown
from tha, quarter."
The noted Lunatic, Frith, who has been im
prisoned some years in New-Gate, for thiow
ing a flone at his Majelly, the King ot. Great-
Bntain, was lately liberated, after trial tor hirh
treason. In a fpecch made to the court, he com
plained much ot the hardihip of his cafe, in not
be ng tried by a couit-martial, inltead of what
he termed, a court of common law.
A London paper of the 19th Nov mentions
the total deltrufction of the town ot Manilla, in
the Spanilh Philippine lfiands. This \v:'3 rec
koned one of the richell cities in the liidies ;
anditisfaid the Spanilh government take ex
traordinary pains to conceal the event, as it will
occaftona considerable shock through the mer
cantile part of the kingdom.
On the 9th inllant departed this life George
PLATER, Esquire, late Governor ot Mary
land ; a worthy, patriotic charafcter, and univer
sally legretted. He was in the 56th year of his
age.
Amongfl the various changes occaftoned by
the revolution [fay French papers j may be lec
koned the extinction ot the Gazette de France,
whieh had fubfilled for a century and an half.
It was by far the moll ancient of any newtpaper
in being ; originated with the learned Kenandot,
and was always known as the official paper of
government.
One of the plans laid before the legillaturc of
the United States, byM. D. L .Morel, lor ci
vilizing the Indians, is laid to be the encourag
ing whites to intermarry with them. Tins, it
is well known, was the foimer policy among
the Fiench when they held Canada, and ope-ia
ted so powerfully in attaching the Indian tubes
to that nation, that they could at all times com
mand them, 10 the prejudice of iheEnghiii.
Hence too, it is thought, originated the filial
tiyle of attention in use among the savages to the
Fiench monaich, whom they always teimed their
father, wheieas it was by dint of great ptefents
only that they could be brought to call the king
of England their brother.
The legislature of Fennfylvania have palTcd
an act, tending to mitigate the fufferings of
poor and diltieiled prifoneis in the jail oi the
city and county of Philadelphia. It is fincereiy
hoped their benevolent example will he followed
m other slates, and that as the lights of men be
come bettei undeiltood among us, the lights of
those men will not be palfed over whom the ty -
ranny of a barbarous cullom, precludes from
helping thenifelves. By the att jult mentioned,
intpefctors are appointed, to attend once a week
toobfeivethe conduct of the keeper and the
condition of the piifoners, and to provide blan
kets, fuel, &c. for fucb as are unable 10 procure
iheinfor themselves Besides this,(even cents per
day are to be paid to each po®r debtor for his
tubfillence ; the peifon upon whose suit the
debtor was confined, to be diawn upon weekly
forthe amount ; andincafe of reiufal, the deb
tor to be discharged from confinement.
" From the Secretary of the Treafurv's flatc
ment of the funded debt, it appears that Penn
sylvania holds, in certificates, upwards of
470,000 dollais more than all the lUtcs to thetoulhward of it, united: ttiat Mew-York t.olds
1 266,851 dollars more than Pennsylvania ; ane
th.ii Maifachull tr& holds £22,301 dollars moie
than New-York. So that these three northerr
ftaies are polielfed of near fourteen out of twent\
paits of the public funded debt. The part 0!
ihe debt belonging to the tieafury is not touch
ed on in this calculation of proportion. Thus
on the scale of equality, the balance of power
aiifing fiom poflelliixn of the public funds, is al
ready departed fiom the fouthtrn divifionof thf
United States ; and yet these southern Hates muli
be accountable for the payment of the principal
and interefl of the public funded debts, of whicl:
they holdfofmall a proportion[Daily Adv.
Two frigates failed from the port of Bred
lafl fall, t<> make a thorough research for the
frigates Boujfole and Afrolabe, who failed on
dtfeovety 111 August 1785, under the command
©f M.de Peyoufe ; and of which no intelli
-encehas been received since their leaving Bo
tany lsay or. lh e tenth of March, 1788. This,
however, is bOt their 10!e obj?&s. a voyage of
discovery being included in their plan, 11>• '..bich
-••luofe they took on board, by order of the
king, a number of artills so qualified and pio
vided. as to render this voyage, when finifhed,
interefling to all nations. "They have alfc
(fays the Leyden paper) been well furniihed
with such ariii les of tiade, and such ufeful im
plements for prcfents, as will render their ar
rival a blefiing, inflead of a curse, to the barbar
ous nations they may visit. Ihe voyage, it u
expe&ed may lall three years."
Ext rail of a Utter Jrem Havre, dated Sov. go.
" There is every reason to suppose thai
the French aristocrats have been at the bot
tom of the infernal business in St. Domin
go. When the king firft heard this news,
he cried out. These are the confequmces of th,
preachments of the Abbe' Gregoire, and other fhek
tersfor the liberties of the Wejl-lndia blacks! —
ph lofophicai humanity, however, might
have been the Abbe's motive, without out
stigmatizing him with the odious epithet o]
Ar'fiocrct —This restless body of men,alike
enemies to their country and the genera
rights of man, it is suspected, had been toe
influential with some foreign power or pow
ers in exciting the dey of Algiers to breal<
with us. —On this fubjeft the minister ot tilt
marine addretfed the President oi the
national aflembly—and an armament, it i
said, was ordered to be fitted out to cruiit
in the Mediterranean to humble the iiago.
the barbarians.in cafe they rejected the con
ciliatory overtures which the king had pre
viously in contemplation to make to them
—It were almost to be withed that tney
had been reje&ed, and the usual outrage
and depredations of those unprincipled peo
pie renewed. In such cafe hereafter, it will
without doubt, be one of the firft objects o
our regenerated government to make
feel the weight of the resentment of the
French nation, as it is certainly in our pow
er to annihilate this nest of thieves, whe
have hitherto (to the disgrace of Europe
been supported only by the mutual jealoufj
of the christian powers, and thus been en
couraged to prey upon the lives, liberties
and fortunes of indultrious citizens."
ExtraCl of a letter frtm Paris, Nov. 18.
"It was, formerly, an idea of Louis 14th
that the French empire might be made umver
fal by universally extending the French lan
guage. The effe&s of this policy are observable
to the present day in Europe ; the F ench beinj
the prevailing language of every court, r.ot ever
excepting the barbarous court of RutTia. Intel
ligence has, of late, by some means or other
leaked out, that to prevent the project of Louis
the 14th being accomplilhed, in a manner he
never dreamt of, the several courts of Germany
are beginning to discourage the knowledge of
the French language amongfl them, for fear
their fubje£ls Ihould discover that they are not
absolutely beafls (as was tacitly alferted some
years ago by the king of Pruflia, 111 refpefl to a
body of HefTians, who upon palling one of his
bridges, were obliged to pav beafls' toll). This
latent decree may, pofiibly, soon be carried
into effefl, to prevent men from imbibing the
French ideas of liberty ; but, like the king of
Spain's armed mercenaries on his frontiers, will
prove in the end, ir.effeflual againfl the univer
sal extention of rational and equal liberty."
Extraß of a Utter from ork, Feb. 11.
" Mr. Jay has consented to become a candi
date for the flation of Governor of our slate at
the next election. No exertions will he want
ing to give him a plurality of votes It will be
only by placing men of such dignified public,
and exemplary privates characters in high trufl,
that our governments can become refpefla le,
and in this way we shall best prevent the general
government from lefTening the influence of our
slate governments."
LONDON.
Extraßsfrcm the Proceedings of the National
Afmbly on Thursday, the \-jth of November.
" The National Aflembly considering
that the Social Contrast ought to bind, as
it ought equally to protect, all the mem
bers of the State, that it is of importance to
define the terms of this engagement, to
prevent confufion of words from introduc
ing confufion of ideas ; that an oath, pure
ly tivil, is the pledge which every citizen
ought to give of bis fidelity to the law, and
his attachment to the focietv, and that a
difference in religious opinion canr.ot be an
objection to taking this oath, finee the con
llitut on allures to every citizen entire
freedom of opinion in nutter; of religion,
provided the publication oS them d oes not
riilturb order, or lead to acts inj - -::' ions to
the public fafety.
That the minister of any worship, in re
fufing to acknowledge the constitutional
ast which authorises him to profcfs his reli
gion:' opinions, without inipofmp on him a
iiy obligation but to respect the order efta
jlifliedljy law, and for the public fafety,
kvill announce, by his refufal, that his in
:ention is not to refpeft it.
That by refilling to acknowledge the
law, he will voluntarily i.bdicate the
idvantages which the law alone can
ecure to him. Having paifed the de-
Tee of urgency, the Allbmbly decrees as
ollows ■
I. Within eight days from the publica
tion of the present decree, all the F.cclefi
inics. except those who have conformed
o the decree of the 27th November last,
hall be bound to present themselves before
he Municipality of the place of their refi
lence, there to take the civic oath in the
ermsof Article V. of Part 11. ofthecon
litution, and to sign the minute of it,
vhicli lhall be drawn up for them without
;xpence.
11. At the expiration of the above inter
,al, every Municipality lhall transmit to
he Directory of the Department, by means
»f the DiftriA, a lilt of the Ecclelialtics re
iding in their territory, distinguishing those
,vho lhall have taken the civic oath, and
hose who lhall have refufed it.
111. Those of the Ministers of the Ca
holic worlhip, who have set the example
jf fubmillion to the laws, and of attach
nent to their country, by taking the oath
>f fidelity prescribed by the decree of No
vember 27, i"9O, and have not retraced it,
n-e exempted from all new formalities.
They are invariably maintained ill all tlis
•ights which were lecured to them, by the
brmer decrees.
IV. With refpeft to the other Ecclefiaf
ics, none of them can in future receive,
lemand, or obtain pension, or allowance,
Vom the public treasury, but byreprefent
ng the proof of their having taken the civic
>ath, agreeable to the ill article of this de
ree. The treafurerj, receivers, or payers,
vho (hall make payments contrary to the
enour of this decree, lhall be condemned
o rellitution of the amount, and the loss
>f their places.
The fourth article was the fubjeft of a
varm debate, which was interrupted b>
he bulinefs of Avignon.
The Minister of the home department
iroduced dispatches, which the commiffion
■rs of the iying employed for the purpose
>f restoring the tranquility of Avignon, hac
iddrelled to him by an extraordinary cou
rier.
They announce," That their endeavour:
; xd succeeded to the fati:faction of the un
"ortunate inhabitants, whom the ruffians o:
he army of Monteux, called Petriot, pil
aged and malfacred with impunity. The
• rench troops are in pofTellion of Carpen
:ras and Avignon, to the great difpleafurt
>f these ruthans. —Those who had flee
rom conllernation now return to theii
lomes. One Lecuyer had pillaged the in
labitants of Avignon ; he was malfacred
rfis friends took occalion to ravage the
own, and under the pretext of avenging
lis death, killed all the persons of probit;
,vhom they dete'.ted.
" They plunged them into the prisons o!
he Palace, and there mallacred them i:
old blood. Sons were murdered in the
irefence of their fathers ! Mothers expir
:d on the bodies of their sons! Alas ! ai.
>eriihed mi.erably I—[The Aflembly fhud
lered with terror ; shrieks were uttered,
•xprellive of the deepell: concern.]
" Barbarity spared not even the bodie:
>f the unfortunate vifcf:mThey were
)eheaded, cut in pieces. The bodies o:
vomen were erabowelled ! the mangled re
naius." [Here, M. Monteix conid pro
ved no farther, his frame was convulled
he paper dropt from his hand . he coverec
his face, and lied with precip.tatioi
rom the Tribune. His flight was benelc
n a gloomy silence * of so numerous an Affembl
lot one pcrfon was found, whoft curiosity hac
0 far mattered his feelings as to oppose his de
iarture, or demand his return, j
After a pause of horror, M. ITnard, the Secre*
ary, was ordered to proceed with the recital
' These mangled remains of their fuiy were
hrown into a ditch, called Glaciere du Palais. -
The entrance was closed up ; we difcovercd the
omb and caused it to be opened. A putrid stench
endered it almost inacceifible. We, however,
aufed it to be examined with proper precautions,
u order, if polfible, by the number of heads, tc
iifcovei how many lives have been 1011. The
\fitmbly resounded with a mingled exclamation
>f indignation and sorrow. ]
" A crowd of unfortunate citizens came every
lay to embrace our knees, and demand of us their
athers, husbands, children, friends, whose bodies
vere among the number of the 60 vidims butch
red at the Cattle.
" It appeared to us indispensable to cause to be
irrclfed all the persons in authority at Avignon at
the period of the massacre. The Juurdar
iiul Tourn. 1 are arretted, the firft v.as distant a
it-ague from Avignon, tlie other attempted to fly.
-Iter a pistol at the officer who wa>
going to leize lim ; lie at firft laved hinifrlf by
clambcring along the roofs,but tell and having
.1 leg broken, was taken.
"We a-reiled the young Tecuyer, who inci
ted by an inf.itiable thirll ot blood, iri order to a
vcnge his father, massacred 16 of the prisoners ol
the palace,
•' 11 thcfe faifts have been authenticated.' the
National Aflombly will, perhaps, regret having
'leard at its bar an enliflary of the ruffians, who
tiad the audacity, to accuse NT. Mulot, the Com
miffioncr of Pacification.— We are, &c."
The Afleiiibly referred these dispatches to the
Comlnittee of I,igiflat>on.
Tratjlationsfrom French papers.
Paris', Nov 20. Dilcuffions upon the trou
pes, occasioned by fanatacifm or religious phien
:v, have occupied much of the time of the fe
•ond legilUtive aflembly. Six days ago, M.
'/hard, one of the members, fulminated his ana
hemas againlt every thing that bore the name
if priefl,—" In the present slate of France (laid
le) priefls (liould be considered as heretics to
he conlliiution, and the troublers of the public
epofe. So long accuflomed to govern kings,
md acting behind the curtain against the liber
ies of the people, it is high lime to consign the
vhole host of them to a (late of exile from the
iingdom. These poisonous monflers ought to
ie fliut up in the lazarettos of their native Italy ;
ind I do maintain, that one ill-inclined priest
;jndous more mifchief than all our enemies
ogether. A priefl is never wicked by halves—
jvhen he is not one of the mofl virtuous, rely on
t, he is one of the moll wicked of men. —'1 he
;migrants will gain no accefTion of flrength by
he banishment of the clergy—for priefls are
ilways as cowardly as they are viudiftive— Long
lccuftomed to fight us on the myflerious llage of
CONFESSIPN, they are truly contemptible in
he field of battle.—They have, in all ages, been
he murderers, the deceivers of the human race ;
ind have presumed, whenever it suited them,
o throw open to the vilest wretches the gates of
leaven, which are accelfible to virtue Jone."
[Gaz. Unw.l
Rome, Nov. 4- —Of all the holt of French
who have resorted to this city, there only
-emain some fanatical emigrants, priefls
md nobles, in consequence of the orders
that were iifued for all Frenchmen to quit
this capital, who were not openly declared
'nem'es to the revolution in that kingdom.
Like the jews, a little before the detrac
tion of Jerusalem. tliofe that remain have
been constantly expediting signs and won
tlers, and to fee among the cloud; the ap
paritions of armies preparing to subjugate
France and extirpate the national aflembly.
It is curious to hear them laying their vast
projects. dictating laws to sovereigns, and
even preJcribingthe number of troops to be
furniihed by general contribution for this
holy crusade. They seem not, however,
to recoHeft that all crusades (even ;hofe
preached up by much more lanctified cha
racters than the cardinal Rohan, and tome
other French prelates) always proved fatal to
those who conducted them-.
Genoa, bov. 9—" The French reiident
here, from the national aflembly, M. Se
monville, supports his democratic charac
ter with much ability. No doubt, his pri
vate principles, of universal equality, are
not much to the tafle of the Genoese court,
but he is prudent enough to keep up a good
understanding with our aristocracy ; which,
considering the relation in which he Hands
to them, is no very easy matter ; and the
least infringement of which would be highly
gratifying to the French emigrants, reliding
amongst us. —I herewith inclose you the
speech he made to the Doge, on the king's
acceptance of the constitution. It is in the
plain ltyle of equal republican liberty ; but
was not on that account less acceptable to
the Doge, who is a man of sense, modera
tion. and merit."
Mcjlferene Allies of the King of Francc !
I present to you a new pledge of the per
fect elleem and friendfhip of the king of the
French, in the inltrument certifying his
acceptance of the new constitution.—A
great revolution has afton.lhed F.urope ;
but is at last accomplished : and the legal
code is opened, never to be again clofed---
in the tumult of contending pallions, a
mongftfuch a multiplicity of interests, the
will of the nation and the aflent of the mo
narch, has laved the empire by rallying its
citizens under the standard of liberty and mo
narchy. At the present moment, they only
are revolutionists, who, like the anctent
Hero'trat.us, would render themselves im
mortal by the aggravating criminality of
setting fire to the temple of National Con
cord. They, who under the influence of
an obstinate attachment, are labouring to
envelope this glorious fabric of human rea
son [the French constitution] under the
clouds of prejudice; who deny the sacred
right of a monarch, to consider the prospe
rity of the nation as the great end ot all
his labors; how weak, how contentptible
are tl>eir efforts ? can the growing reason
of man go backward ? can the immortality
of truth do otherwise than triumph ? --And
you, august prince of this republic, whose
super-eminent virtue claims all that homage
that is due to your exalted dignity ; con
vinced we are, that you cannot read the
Const n x'tion I have the honor to pre
sent, with a spirit of indifference. Its
foundations are laid in the love of our fel
low-creatures, and, I may fay. even its
errors, ihpuld any be discovered therein :
In this memorable declaration of the rights
of man, France is forever prohibited from
entertaining ambitious views upon the reft
of the world ; happy in his people's happi
ness, fatisfied in their affections, their mo
narch has acknowledged the fame fenti
mentsj Already have our songs of joy re
sounded in your ears; fame has wafted to
yon the sublime accents of a whole nation,
thus addressing the God of peace ; Preserve
in this world your bejt, your brightejl image, apow
erfut monarch, who is a lover of -jvjiict:; and pro
tetl a people, who have jworn to live, die, and con
querfor the rights v man.'
Under the influence of these sentiments,
France hopes to ertablifh a more intimate
connexion than ever with the republic of
Genoa; and may it be as durable, as my
zeal is sincere for the interests of the repub
lic, and the character of your serene high
nef".
Warsa -<• 08. 28. Prince Potemkin did
not die, as has been reported at YafTy,+ut in the
country about go tuerjls from that place. A
short time befor? his death, he received a very
importunate requefl from the Bojards,Moldavi
ans and Wallachians, folliciting the Piince to
procure a treaty of peace, that might in some
degree protest them from the cruelties and op
preflions of the Turks, which are repiefented as
intolerable.
Correfpondencc between Earl Cornwallis and Tipr
poo Saib.
Earl Cornwallis wrote a letter to Tip
poo, which he sent across the river, along
with the sick of Tippoo's army who had
been left in the field of battle. He afiur
ed the tyrant that they had received all the
iffiftance and attention which was possible
in their very unpleasant circumstances to
live —lot so good treatment, undoubtedly,
is it was the wish of an English army to give
to those whom the chance of war had
thrown into their power, but they had re
ceived the fame treatment as their own
Tick.
Tippoo answered, that his heart was
warmed by the kindness which the Earl had
(hewn to his sick ; that it had ever been
[its desire to treat prisoners with humanity
and tenderness ; and that whenever he had
i£ted with severity, it was when he was o
bliged. byway of example, to chaftifefome
unprovoked crueltycommitted on his peo
ple. He heard of the unpleasant circum
stances of the English army with pain, and
begged leave to offer to the noble sari a
present of fruit; that, from the beginning
of th'« 4 unjufl war, he had manlfefted his
sincere wi/hes for peace, and that even
now he had the fame sentiments of mode
ration as ever ; that, as he laid before the
thoughts of the heart could not be so well
communicated by writing as by coeverfa
tion, and therefore he still proposed rofend
a person of high rank to his Excellency, to
confer on the terms of peace.
Earl Cornwallis rep'.'ed that he would
lot. receive a person to confer on peace. If
Tippoo had any proportions to make, lie
mull put them in writing —as he mult fub
nit them to his allies, without who e con
:urrence he could enter, into no negocia
:ion whatever.
Tippoo said, in answer, that it was im
>oflible that his Excellency could meet
with any difficulty to a negotiation for
>eace in the Nizam, or the Mahrattas, as
here were treaties of friendihip fubfifling
jetvveen them and him which he had never
violated ; and he renewed again his offer
jf fending an Ambaflador to treat.
This was refnfed ; and Earl Cornwallis
writes to the Presidency, " That the Ty
ant was not yet prepared to make the fa
:rifices that the confederates might think
:hey had aright to expect."
PRICE of STOCKS.
Six per cents, per - 24/1.24/2
Three per cents, - - 14/6*
Deferred fix per cents, - - 14/10
Final Settlements - zzf.
Indents, - - 14/6
Bank Stock 1.2 Shares 97, pr. ct. prem.
Meteorological Observations.
February, 1792.
D. H Bar. Ther. Wind. U'eath.
Monday, 13. 7 30. 25 23 N. Cloudy.
2 30. ? 27 NE. do.
lutfday, 14. 7 30. o 20 N.E. Snow.
2 29. 95 28 do. do.
Wcdnefday, 15. 7 29.85 24 N.E. Cloudy.
' g 29. 85 3 2 do. do"
Thursday, 16. 7 "9■ 7 28 N.E. Cloudy.
2 29. 65 39 do. do.
Friday, 17. 7 29. 65 33 N. Fair.
2 29. 6 40 do. do.
Saturday, Jg. 7 29. 6 21 N.W.fiur.
2 29. 55 37 do. j do.
Sunday, 19. 7 29. 6 19 N.W.j fair'
e 29. 6 a 6 do .J do.Charity a-la-Mode,
[A TRUE STORY]
FROM four hem climes a wandering vefle
came
That from her size, or looks, small note cculc
claim,
Vet found throughout, {he many a gale had try'd
And Hill had Neptune, and his waves, defied;
Not fam'd to be the foremoft in the chace,
Nor yet the rear-most in the watry race.
Her freight difcharg'd ; compell'd in poi
to flay,
Long, by the walls, this empty schooner lay,
In vain the captain fcratch'd his sapient fcul!,
And fcrap'd her mails, and fuibilh'd up hei
hull-
Hung on the rich, or flatter'd up the great —
Not one would trust a poet with his freight :
No fails to trim; no woik, but mixing grog,
Pensive he flood, and figh'd to heave the log ;
In vain he fearch'd, and fiopt up every leak,
Andadveitis'd his barque from week to week,
All would not do ! —the dock was flill her fate
Idle the mailer, unemploy'd the mate,
While, with the tide, she lay to rife and fall,
The wharfinger—twas thought, would take
her all !
At length, a man who had much gold in flock
One morning fair came waddling to the dock
Addrefs'd the captain as he pensive fate,
And aik'd, What Jay you, friend ; zuilt' take i
freight ?
" Take it (said Jonas) take it!—that I will —
Take it as quick as patient takes a pill ;
This idle life's the very worfl disease,
But let me know your terms, fir, if you please.'
My terms are Jo and so [the man replied] -
"What? fix pence lefsthan all theworld beside
What reason can be given, I humbly alk
That sixpence Ihould be clipp'd from every calk
Five (hillings—[trull me] —is the usual freight
And given by every shipper in the date" —
That may be so (the miser said, mod cool)
And yet there's one exception to the rule:
If you'ie averse, there's hundreds will agree —
Thislixpence fav'd, is meant for CHARITY—
My terms aregood—you can't be angry, sure
Each fix-pence fqueez'd from you— lhall blcf
the poor !
Feb. 14. S I N B AT.
Authentic Pries Current at Philadelphia.
[Dollar equal to 100 Cents.]
ASHES Pot per ton 100 Dols. to 106
Allies pearl 137 — — >4'
Jiacon flitches, per lb. 6 1-2 cents
Bacon Ihoulders ——6 do.
Bees wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27
Brandy, Coniac pr gl. 1 dol. 20 c. to 1 dol. 30. c.
Brandy, common, 1 dol. lie.
Butter, in kegs, per lb. 10 c. to 12
Coals, per bulhel, 20 c. to 22
Coffee, per lb. 17 c. to 18
Flax feed, per bulhel, 85 c. to 90
Flour, super fine, per barrel, 5 dols.
Common, 4 dols. 74 c.
Burr middlings, bed, perbrl. 4 dols 13 c.
Meal Indian 2 dols. 67 c.
Rye 3 dols.
Ship fluff, per cwt, 1 dol. to 1 dol. 33 c.
Gin, Holland, per cafe, 4 dols.
Ginseng, per lb. 20 c. to 24
Grain, barley, per bulhel, 60 c. to 63
. best Ihelled, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per bulhel, 40 c.
Indian corn, 40 c. 44, Oats 26 c. pr. bufli
Rye 50 c. to 54, Wheat 90 to 93, pr. do,
Ham, perlb. 8 c. te 9
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67 c,
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9 c, to 11
Indigo, Carolina, perlb. 40 c. to 1 dol.
French, 1 dol. 20 c. to 1 dol. 33 c,
Iron, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
Cartings, per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nail-rods per ton 96 dols.
Pig, per ton, 24 dols. to 26 dols. 67 c.
Sheet, per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
Lard, hogs, per lb. 9 c. to 10
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
In pigs, 5 dols. 33 c. to 5 dols. 67 c.
Red, 6 dols. 40 c. to 6 dols. 67 c,
White, 10 dols. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Myrtle wax per lb. 18 c.
Molafles, per gal. 45 c.
Pitch, per barrel, I dol. 73 c. to 2 dols.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 10 dols 33 c.
Lower County, do. 9 dols. 33 c.
Carolina, do. 8 dols.
Rice, per 100 lb. 2 dols. 67 c.
Rosin, per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 dols . 67 c.
Rum, Antigua, per gallon, 87 c.
Barbadoes, do. do. 73 c.
New-England, &c. 59 c.
Jamaica, 90 c.
Windward Jfland, 73 to 77 C.
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
Sugar, Havanna, white, per lb. 16 to 17 c.
Brown, per lb. 13 to 14 c.
Muscovado, per cwt. 14 dols. to 15 dols.
Lump, per lb. 18 c.
Loaf, single refined, 25 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 33 c.
Tallow, refined, per lb. 9 C.
Tar, New-Jetfey, 24 gal. to the brl. I dol.
Carolina, 32 gal. 1 do). 33 c. to 1 dol. 67 c.
Tea, Hyson, per lb. 93 c. to i dol. 28 c.
Hyson Ikin, 53 c. to 67
Soulhong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 34 c. to 36
Tokacco, James River, best. perewt. 3 dols. 60 c»
to 3 dob. 73 c.
Inferior, 2 dols. 67 c. to 3 dols.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 2 dols. 50 c. to 3 dols.
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl. 33 c. to 8 dl.
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, 2 dols. 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dols. 23 c.
Carolina, new. 2 ools. 7 c. to 3 dols.
Carolina, old, 2 dols. 7 c.
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. 67 c. to 2 dols.
Wine, Madeira, per pipe, ic6 dl. 67 c. to 200 dl.
Lilbon, 96 dols. to 10 c
Teneriffe, per gal. 51 c. to 60
Fayal, ■ 44 c. 49
Fort, per pipe, 106 dols. 67 c. to 120 aols
Ditto, in bottles, per doz. 4 dols.
Claret, ditto, ditto. 4 dols. 6c.
Champaign, ditto, do. 8 dols.
Sherry, per gal. 90 c. to 1 dol. 20 .
LEGISLATURE of the UNITED STATES
House of Representatives.
Friday, Feb. 3.
Debates on the Fifoery Bill—on the motion to Jit ike
out the JitJi Jefi'ion.
(Continued fjom our lad)
Mr. Goodhue. The gentleman lad up (Mr.
kVilljamfon] fay«s, that an appropriation oi mo
ley being made by the bill now before us, and the
reafury (landing pledged for the payment, —
heretore a diredt bounty is granted.—At present,
ve pay in drawbacks about 4500 dollars ; but we
:annot fay that this sum will be adequate to the
jayment of the drawbacks next year : for if 2
[reater quantity of fifli be taken, a greater sum
nuft of course be allowed : and as the sum de
>ends entirely on the quantity of filh, it is impof
ibleto ascertain beforehand the precise amount :
:here is not however in the whole bill any thing
>f a bounty, excepc the bare name. The gentle
nan allows, that we may commute the present
Irawbacks, and give them to the fifliermen in
lead of the merchant : but it is imooflible to dc
his with fafety in any other mode than thai
jointed out in the bill.—Shall we leave it to the
ifherman, to be determined by his oath ?—Thij
vould not be advifeable.—The plan proposed is 1
nuch less exceptionable one :—it is founded on 2
a.culation, that a certain quantity of tonnage ii
imployed in taking a certain qua«tity of fiih :—
>n this calculation the allowance is apportionec
o the tonnage : if gentlemen think the allow
ince too high, let the sum be reduced j but let i 1
10C be (ligmatized as a bounty :—lt is no fuel
hing ; the word ( bounty* is an unfortunate ex
.refiion 5 and I wifli it were entirely out of thi
>ill.
Mr. Livermore. The bill now under confid
:i ation has two important obje&s in view. Th<
>r.e is, to give encouragement to our fifliermen.
ind, by that encouragement, to encreafe theii
lumbers :—the other is to govern those si/her-
Tien by certain laws, by which they will be kep
jnder due restraint. Both these cbjrih are ol
;reat importance to such persons as chul'e to cm
>loy their capitals in the filhery business : and ]
relieve it will not be disputed that the bufinef:
tfelf is of considerable importance to the Unitec
itates, inasmuch as it affords a certain proporrior
>f remittance or exportation to foreign countries :
tnd does not impoverish the country, but enrich
:s it by the addition of so much wealth drawr
rom the sea.
It is the objett of those gentlemen, who favoui
he bill, that the fifliermen Ihould have some en
:ouragement, not given to them at the expenceo:
he United States, but d're&ed to them out 0:
vhat was, in the former law, called a drawback
if the duty on fait. The calculation, as I under
lano has been made as nearly as possible, to giv(
hat drawback, not to the merchants who expori
he fifli, but to the fifliermen who take it : in ordei
o encreafe that description of men, without whof<
ilTiftance it is in vain to expert any benefit from
he fiflieries : for if the merchants, at present en
;aged in that branch, polTefi'ed the whole capital
»f the United States, yet if they cannot get fifli
:rmen, they cannot carry on the fiflierv : this is
lone by a particular clafsof men, who must be
lot only expert sea-men, but also accuttomed tc
aking the fifh and curing it. If these men can
lot be had, the capital cannot be employed 5 and
hose who undertake the business, cannot carry
t on, or reap any profit from it.
Whilst the drawback is payble only to the mer
;hant who exports the fifli, it is impofiible to con
ince the fifliermen, that they reap from it any
idvantage whatever : or if some of the more dif
:erning among them do perceive an advantage in
t, the others, who are not so clear-sighted, can
lot discover it, and are therefore not disposed to
indertake the bafinefs. It is however of confid
rable importance to the merchants, that the fifli
irman ftiould receive a proper encouragement,
ven if they were obliged to allow him a bounty
>ut of their own pocket.
The government of the fi/hermen, after their
ingagement in this business, is also neceflary to
)e provided for : —otherwife frequent instances
nay occur among that class of men, of quitting
?ne veftel to embark on board another, or of Alie
ning themselves for a foreign voyage, before the
expiration of the fiihing season. In the latter
cafe, the vefiel lies useless cn the owners hands ;
snd he, together with the whole expence of the
Dut-fit, loses all his profpetts of future gain.
The two objects, here mentioned, are fully
vided for in the bill. Still however it is obje&e
to :—but what is the obje&ion ?—it is, that the
word 1 bounty'' is twice used in this clause. Let
us fee what advantage will result from striking
out this obnoxious ( bounty S—None at all the
bill fays it (hall cease ; and have gentlemen any
obje&ion to the bounty's ceasing ? Since the
bounty is toceaf' by this bill, what ad vantage is in
Ilriking it our The sense would still remain the
fame ; and 1 don't know why we fliould make a
law expressly to firike out the icord ( bounty'
Dut to ft r ike out the bounty itfelf- It is Grange
:o me, that any gentlemen, whether he is for giv
ng a great bounty, or little bounty, or no bounty
it all, should quarrel with this unfortunate word.
There is indeed one part of the section, which 1
A-ill readily consent to strike out 5 and I believe
: very other gentleman, who is in favour of the
Dill, will consent to it lilcewife j and that is, the
laufe, which provides, 4 that the bounty, to be
illuwed and paid on any one vettel, for one sea
"on, lhall not exceed one hundred and leventy
lollars. If, when the vote is taken on the fee
ion, there dees not appear a majority of the Houft
n favour of striking out the whole, we may then
nove for striking out theproviju, if it offen
sive to any gentlemen: if it be not'ofrenfive it ma)
emain.
lfgentlemen are disputing, only because tht
vord * bounty'' is in the bill, they may be perfefth
elieved from their unealinefs on that Icore : foi
he bill expressly fays, 4 that the bounty now al
owed upon the exportation of dried fi(h, of tht
ifiieiies of the United States, fiall ccafe, and i;
\eu thereof a different kind of encouragement i
®be given. Here is no reason to difputc abou
1 word : If gentlemen are disposed to consent t(
he principle of the bill, that the drawback of thi
luties on fait shall be commuted for a certain fun
o encourage the fifliermen, they will vote in fa
our of the bill : If not, they will vote again{
t. But it is impoflible for me to conceive, wh;
ny gentlemen under Heaven should be against it
t is only fixing for the merchants engaged in thi
iranch, a clear and equitable ratio, fordiftribut
ng among the fifhermen that encouragemen
vhich they think necefl'ary in order to attacl
hose people to the business, and to prevent their
"rom going to other occupations, on land. 1 lit
>i 11 is an important one, and will encreafe thai
»ranch of bufinei's, which is very ufeful to th<
:ommunity : it does not lay a farthing of boun
y, or duty on any other persons, than those whe
ire immediately concerned in it: it will ferv<
hem j and will not injure any body.
[Original communications.]
Hints candidly offered concerning Mr. Churchman .
Magnetic Atlas, &c. by Baron Va I Tracers,
number offeveral fcicntifc J'ocieties in Europe'
MY late reverend friend and fellow membei
of the royal society, Dr. Bradley, whof<
jxcelient agronomical and philosophical ie&ure:
i attended with infinite fatisfadiion through thre«
:ourfes, at Oxford, used to account for the decli
lation of the needle, by a very ingenious conjec
:ure, borrowed partly from Dr. Halley, who lup
>ofed an interior detached globe, moving withir
>ur terreflrial globe, in a direction and degree o
/elocity peculiar to itfelf, round its own axis,
r orming a certain angle with that of the earth
:he magnetism of which being the natural effed
)f its peculiar centripetal and centrifugal force
ittradtion and repullion, croliing tha: of our ex>
eiior globe. Some experiments he made corro
>orated his opinion, as well as the ring rounc
iatuin.
Your intended expedition to Bajjlns Bay is mucl
:o be wifiied for, as it may either confirm or redli
~y and complete, the observations made in Hud
on's Bay, in nine voyages, by captain Middleton
"rom 1721 to 1729, to observe the ettedts am
aufes of magnetic variations in the needle.
The Hudson's Bay company in England, wlu
njov by charter, with great profit and jealousy.
in exclusive trade and navigation to thole north
veftern polar regions, would hardly refufe thei:
onfent to your offers, when solicited by theroya
"ocicty in London. Even his Britifli rrajefty, whe
las already done so much for ufeful discoveries
nore than any monarch ever did, would willing!}
>atronize your laudable enterprise, and perhap:
ippoint an expedition on purpose, to second youi
inquiries. Lord Frederick H. Ca r vendijh y lore
\lulgrante, fir Jofepb Banks, the hon. judge Daine
Harrington, Rev. Dr. Majkelyne, Dr. Prieflley, ant
Dr. Herfchtl, the king's private astronomer, al
varin promoters of such investigations, would, j
nake no doubt, unite their powerful countenanc<
n your behalf.
Your intended annual Magnetic Almanack will
n all probability, be a molt valuable new gift
iot only to every seaman, but to every natura
;!iilofopher ; and may lead to collect such sup
>!ie3 of new data, from re&ified and multiplier
• bfervations, as may, in time, bring your dodlrini
till nearer to truth, so as to derive the singular ad
antages therefrom you have in view.
My immortal old friend 3nd fe'.low labourer j >
ields of truth and beneficence, Dr. B. Frank
lin, has certainly left a complete let of philolo
gical tranfadtions, both at large and abridged ;
he perusal of which must undoubtedly have beer
iccefiible to his academy, and to yourfelf. YOl
ould never apply to a better judge, nor one mor:
eady to afiift you in your labours. If he wen
[live, I would diredfc this whole packet to him
ind recommend it to his kind notice. Being now
emoved to a still better exifterice, 1 take the li
>erty to address it to your truly great patron
vhofe name is an ornament not only to your in
:enious chart, but to all America, nay to huma
lity in general.
Should you ever succeed, which I sincerely wish
n bringing your attempt towards a regular fyf
em, of the refpe&ive movements of our earth
ind those of your tvvo magnetic points, to corref
>ond with a fufficient number and length of ob
"ervations, and fadb, 1 know a very ingeniou:
irtift, Mr. Jaquet Droz, of Neufchatel in Swit
zerland, famous for his agronomical clocks, orre
ies, and other curious mechanical inventions
vho could easily conftrudt a double globe, one
vithin another, and impart to each separate diur
-lal and annual motions, making refpedtive in
erfedting meridians, &c. to appear through ;
ranfparent chryftalline terraqueous globe, to bt
vound up but once a month, or half yearly. Such
i pair of chryftalline globes, both the celestial anc
rerreftrial, has been very nicely executed, man)
years ago, by one Rudinger, and stands depofitec
jn the public library at Bern, in Switzerland
They measure about eighteen inches in diameter,
Extras of a Utter from Mr. BernouKy frlniifat
astronomer of the king of Pruffta, to bis friend at
Hamburg, concerning Mr* Churchman's chart y
&c.
<c My much hcnored and refpeftable friend,
i< ~Y Perceive with pleasure you support like a
phiiofopher the rigors of fate, and with
your accuttomed philanthropy, are not forgetful of
your friends, to whom you still continue to be ule
ful, and to interest yourfelf by the most extensive
correspondence in whatever may tend to the ge»
neral good.
(t These reflexions are produced by ycur fend
ng me the letter, the memoir and chart of Mr»
Churchman. The royal academy had lately re
vived duplicates of the fame by another channel,
ind were engaged in examining them, with a view
>f giving some fatisfadtion to the author, with
efpedl to his desiderata, in consequence of which
have now the honor of fending you for Mr.
Zburcbman y ift, the repoit of the committee ap
>ointed to examine his work. 2d, A volume con
aining the memoirs he is desirous of having. Tnat
>f the collection for 1766 was not by Mr. Euier
is Mr. Churchman supposed, but by Mr- Lamoert.
* ( Mr. Tornev, la quality of perpetual le
:retary; u \~ nad it in charge to accompany these
>apers with a congratulatory letter to Mr.
nan \ but as he is now 80 years of nis activity
s much diminished. Tjj» prevent delay I have
jropofed to him to d.irpenfe with this letter, taking
t upon myfelf to excuse him, in which I hope you
arill join your influence.
The academy has not received the packet which
Mr. Churchman writes us was sent in 1787 by a
:ertain Solomon Kitt—it will not now be worth
*hi!e to make enquiry for him, although I know
:hat this fame Kit: has been in 1788 and 1789 at
it. Peterfhurg and Mufcow."
ROBERT SMOCK,
Woollen Draper & Mercer,
Has juji received by the Jhlp P\gou y from London,
and for sale at his Store, on the north eaji corner
of Market and Third Jlreets, Phvadelphia y
AN ELEGANT ASSORTMENT OF
SUPERFINE and super broadcloths, in almost
every colour.
Ladies habit cloths,in the most fafhion
able colours.
Juperfine caOimers, do.
Do. and super elaitic ftrlped cloihs.
Milled dr.'.bs and hunters cloths.
!\ variety of fancy waiitcoating, in silk, fiik and
cotton, silk mjlefkin, cafhmers pri.ited and
tamboured, and liriped Spaniih toili
nets.
Mens black fattins, florentines, anU silk prunellas
of superior qualites
silk, silk and cotton, cotton and worded hole,
afl'ortea.
Sattins and mantuas, a beautiful variety.
supertine rartinets, with a large collection of best
trimmings for cloths, &c. of every quality.
Moreens, joans ip inning, durants and caliman
coes.
rlairbines and camblets, See.
j-S wide fuperfiue Iviarf^i»ies quilting with bor
ders.
Vlarfeilles bedquilts and cotton counterpanes, 9-4'
to 12-4.
"landers bedbunts and bedtickings.
•A. beautiful variety of chintzes and cottons.
elegant afiortment of yard wide furniture
chintzes, in beautiful colours and patterns,
with a large variety of furniture cottons.
Velveteens, velvets, corduroys, thicksets, fancy
cords, flockinets, royal ribs, fattinets, hair
pluflies, &c. See.
>triped arid grey, twilled and plain Bath coatings,
ilofe blankets aflorted.
ROBERT SMOCK has also for Sale, a great
/ariety of GOODS of the bed quality in their
everal kinds. He presumes it is unnecefTary to
>e more particular in the enumeration, and that
t is fufficient to fay the afTortment is very gene
al and extensive, confiding of alinoft every arti
le in his line of business.—Being desirous of giv
ng entire fatisfa&ion to those who may be pleafeJ
o favour him with their custom, as well
is cf meriting a continuance of those cuf
omers, whose favours he has hitherto experien
ced, he Hatters himfelf the chcapnejs of his Good*
vi 11 be the best means of effecting his wiflies.
>omerfet County, Maryland, Princess Anne
Town.
TEN POUNDS REWARD.
RAN away, a Negro lad about seventeen
years old, who* left the fubferiber
ometime in August last. He goes by the
lame of Leven ; is of a yellowish colour,
ind about five feet high. He is supposed
o have gone to the Delaware slate. Any
;erfpn bringing the said negro to the fub
criber, (hall be entitled to the above re
vard ; and any person giving such infor
nation as will enable the owner to reco
ver him again, (hall be entitled to one half
he above sum, which will be paid by
Thomas Miles.
Feb, 14, 1792. St. 1 aw.
H O W E L L's
SMALL MAP of PENNSYLVANIA,
May be had of Mr. Bailey, and Mr. Crukjhar.k
Printers, in Market-street; or of the author in
N. Fifth-ftreet, No. 88, who has the said maps
sailed on canvass, cut, folded andcafed for pock
■t carriage.
Philadelphia Jan. 30. 1792.
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND SWAINF,
AT TUIIR orrici, NO. 139, HICH-STRIET)
NiAR SIXTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA*