Vol. I.
Tranjlations from the Ley din Gazette :
Oclob. 14 —
FRANKFORT. Oftob. 24.
AN attentiveobferver of events can
not but consider it as something An
gularly peculiar to the present period,
that ever since the commencement of
the French revolution, foreign powers
have continued mere fpeftators of that
unparalleled event. It is also not a lit
tle remarkable that emigrations from
France were confined only to those
chara&ers who were under apprehensi
ons for their personal fafety. Now.
however, when the revolution is accom
plished, and the king himfclf has put
his seal to it, when good order begins
to be re-established, and no man need
be afraid of exceijes fnnilar to those
which attended the firft efforts of the
nation to vindicate ltfelf into liberty,
is it not surprizing that now, when the
matter is thus as good as finifhed, thai
the different courts of Europe Ihould
bs privately contemplating the ruin oi
tbe new government of France, and e
migrations should be increasing to a de
gree of popular phrenzy P—lt is wel
known that the leaders of the ex-patria
ted French nobility have done ever)
thing in their power to alarm the mind:
of such of their rank as remained ir
France, and by means equally ungener
ous and illiberal. They hold up to then
the idea of national honour ; but whicl
is in fact nothing more than idle preju
dice in favour of themselves, who hav(
been long taught to consider the peo
pie as their inheritance.— ihis ex-pa
triated nobility have even had the info
lence to threaten those that rdmainec
France with a forfeit"*® of th©srtitlei
and eliates, if they did not instantly joir
them ; and even to degrade them to th<
class of vassals, when they come to lsc
re-eftablilhed in their ancient rights
which they seem to consider as a mattei
certain. They have indeed gone so fai
as to call in queftiori the courage of th<
home nob:! : ty, and have insulted therr
with emblematic engravings, of men lit
'ting at spinning wheels and twirling th<
diftaff, &c. This accounts far the mul
titude of French emigrants that are d,ti
3y pouring in upon us, not only of tht
nobility, but alio of the Tiers etat, who
inconsiderable as they are, have been ir
part prevailed upon to alfociate witt
the exiles, under the idea of being re
stored to equal rights with them, upor
the re-inftatemetitof theold government
Coblence.O&o. *5. Yesterday arrivec
here no less than twenty-fix coaches, la
den with French emigrants, mostly o
the citizen class. For some tiinepaft
rhefe people, together with their UobUj
ft, have come in such crowds, that wt
are distressed to find them lodgings ever
in the city or the suburbs. Their pre
sent design, is, it is said, to form them
felvcsintoa Royal National Guard. B<
that as it njay, it is certain that (uch
preparations are making by, and aboui
the two princes (brothers of Louis
as indicate some extraordinary enter
prize. On the 17th instant they receiv
ed dispatches from the Empress of Ruf
fia, alluring them that they may rely up
on her friendlhip and protetlion. The
Emperor of Germany is more sparing ol
his promises than Catharine, and it is
certain there has no movement of his
troops taken place that portends any
thing like hoftilitics against France.
For the honour of humanity, we have
good grounds to fay, that the greater
part of the European princes are not
less pacific in their principles than Leo
pold.—" But (fay some) it is the inter
est of every European power to unite
in exterminating this political monster
(the new French government) which
threatens, after filling France with hor
ror and violence, to ravage Europe from
one end to the other."—lt is, doubtless,
the interest of sovereigns, as well as
their people, to calm what they tray
By PHILIP FRENEAU.
MONDAY, January 23, 1792.
deem political madnsfs, but what might
more justly be called the effervtjunce of
liberty. This, however, can only be
done by a£ls of moderation. By at
tending to this idea, Louis the r6th has
gained more in one month only from hi;
lubje&s, than he would have gained ir
two yeafs by obstinate opposition anc
by such means he will recovcr the en
tire confidence of his nation, and, per
haps, as much refpe£l as ever. In re
gard to the other potentates of Europe
who arc inclined to indulge noble fenh
ments, it is hoped they will now apph
themselves to alleviating in forae degrei
the miseries of their fubjefts, and th>
suppressing every species of vassalage
to quench the ardent spirit of military
enterprizc, which only tends to makt
the world miferahle ; and to Ihcw them
selves, in reality, the fathers and step
herds, and not the butchers of their peo
pie.—Such tnuft be, eventually,' th(
happy influence of the French Revolu
tion upon the several Empires, king
doms, and states of Europe.
Zeydcn, Otto- 28. We may fav wit!-
truth, relying upon the infori»ation o
history, that wars in general' have hi
therto solely depended upon the whims
the caprice, or the ambition of a fmal
number of individuals ; and that it doe:
not seem agreeable to right reason oi
the rights of nations for one power t<
interfere, by force of arms, in the do
medic quarrels of any other independ
ent nation. The Arch duke Franci:
must have been of this opinion whei
he, lately, made the following anfwCr t(
a courtier, who observed to his high
ness, that " the public flattered them
(elves the Emperor, his brother, woulc
revenue the indignities offeree 'At
lifter, the Queen of France, bv the cle
mocrats of that nation"—" TheEtnpiri
of Germany (replied the Arch duke
knows no luch relation as filler ; anc
private affronts not an obje£l of pub
lie relentment."
Exclusive of the grand cause of mo
narchy, the states of Germany have con
fiderable rhatter of complaint against thi
National Allembly. They have beei
deprived of many rights in France
but, when applied for, have not as ye
been refuted an indemnification. Thi
prmce of Lowenftein is an instance
He has made a compromise with th
new government for all his lofles in tha
kingdom, particularly in the provmC'
of Lorraine. The indemnification i
fixed at one million five hundred thou
[and livres, in two payments during tin
year 1792.
Paris. OElo. 21. Notwithstanding th<
prefect apparent public peacc and tran
(juility, it is visible that 110 small untfa
iinefs exists relative to the very confid
erable emigrations that have taken plac<
these some weeks past. It is a matter o
serious concern also to fee such quanti
ties of cash every day transferred intc
foreign countries, which ought, in ju{
ticc, to remain in the kingdom.—Then
is no doubt of the reality o? the piepara
tions making by the French ex-princes
and however discouraging their prof
pests may seem, they are by no mean:
destitute of powerful friends. The paffa
gesloading to the French frontiers are a;
much thronged by people, night and day
as the road between Paris and Verfail
les. The French inhabitants on the
frontier provinces are extremely exaf
perated against the fugitives, and have
unanimously declared, that upon the
firft authentic news of an invasion, they
will immediately burn and deftrov the
buildings and poffeflions of the old no
bility, and will give no quarters to any
person whatever, who is found in arms,
and iri favour of restoring the old gov
crnment. It is certain, that if a civil
war does break out (and as far as de
pends on the emigrants, that will cer
tainly be the cafe) xt will be one of the
most bloody that has ever happened in
the annals of mankind.
Bread, and grain of all kinds are ex
ceflively high; and dill rising. Sucli
of the departments of the kingdom as
had good crops last season are io appre
hensive of being scanted in fupplyirtg
those where the crops failed, that they
have prohibited any further exportation
of the article of bread corn. This fcems
to be One of the bad consequences of dis
tributing the kingdom into departments,
diftri&s, and .municipalities.' Each ol
these is t'n reality, adiminutive republic,
and their idea of separate independence
tends to detach them from the general
interests of the nation—as to money,
small change isengrofled by speculator:
as much as ever, even to pieces of a An
gle Sol. The mint that has been crfta
blifhedat the old convent of the Barna
bites, delivers daily eight hundred
thoufandpiec.es, which ditappear in an
instant, and are never seen in the hands
of thie public.
The firft important di feu {Iron of the
new legiflativc affemtly has been on
the fubjefl; of emigration from this king
dom. A fort of epidemical malady ha:
seized upon a vast number of French,
who are quitting their country, againfl
all probability of success in the objetl
they have in view. The debate, on thi:
fubje£i began yesterday. M. Leqiunic
spoke firft, and arranged his difcourf<
under the four following interrogator)
heads.—l. Ought we to prohibit emi
grations ? 2. Ought we to punish th<
emigrants ?—ln what manner ough
they to be punished ?— 4. Is it neceffar)
to take any precautions against the at
tempts ®f the emigrants ?->—As the sub
je& is interesting, we will give a fhor
Mr. Leouinio's obfervatian
t?:^rccn.—The fegiflature of FrasC'
(said he) poffeCTes.no right to shackle th<
national rights of man, by preventing
hiin from quitting a place which hi
finds improper for his reiidence, in orde
to remove to another. The claim o
such a right would be in direst oppofi
tion to the principles of our conftituti
on ; and the prohibition of emigratioi
would operate as the principal cause o
preventing the establishment of liberty
in France. Neither is it the interelt o
the legislature to prevent emigration
it is a real benefit that the nation fhoulc
be purged of its foul and corruptee
blood, and rid of a number of perfidiou:
wretches, who if they remained woul<
be more dangerous to us than any attack
they can make from without. It is th<
wish of the nation to fee their enemie
in open day, and not to be pestered wit!
a multitude of vermin who are invifi
bly gnawing upon their entrails. Suppo
fins we were to make laws to retair
them in the kingdom; would such law
convert them to honour or honesty ?—
Such an opinion would betray a shame
ful ignorance of the nature of the humar
heart. These men in quitting t-hei
country are no longer entitled to the
honorable appellation of Frenchmen. Le
us then tumour backs upon them. Th<
more of them that go from amongst us
the greater will be the ferment in thi
neighbouring nations, and the loonei
will the revolution of the whole work
be accomplished !
But these emigrants consist of twe
clafles—fuch as having no absolute con
nexion with their country, who ga of
through fear or persuasion; and, second
ly, thaie who are in office, and yet base
ly, by their dereliction, violate those fa
crcd ties.—The firft of these are only ir
the exercifeof general liberty, establish
ed by the constitution itfelf; the feconc
compriaes those perjured chara&ers.
those parricides who have deserted the
standard of liberty to range themselves
under the bannets of delpotifm. They
continued in France as long as they had
any hopes of corrupting the soldiery.
under their command ; they have dared
tolift up their perjured hands towards
heaven, and at the moment they were
j taking the oath of fidelity to their coun
Numb. 25.
try, meditated to plunge a dagger into
her breast. They have broken their
jaths, exposed the army to trouble and
iiforder—and are therefore severely
culpable, and ought to be punished, ef
peci'alty futh as have fled from the
kingdom finee the date of the general
Srnncfty
" Besides these, we may trace ano
ther class of emigrants,—thole wlio are
actually preparing for an attack upon
their country. But the firft £hot that is
fired again ft France will be the signal
for t? confiscation of their property.
Were intentions puni£hable, we ihould
have no room tohefitate a moment—the
intentions of thousands amongst us are
jpparent, but the law directs us only to
punish tlVole whofrave quit their ftand
*rds fmce the publication of the general
pardon.- What ought this punilhrnent
■obe?—Thrsis my third qaeftion, and
heanfweris by no means difficult—
They fliould be declared incapacitated
from holding any public office, and de
iriv-ed of tbt rights of citizenship.
This punishment would be proportion
id to then' crime.
" In the fourth piace : Ought the
iflcmbly to use pfecautions against the
designs of the emigrants P—The ordy
precautions, in my opinion, ought to
be our ailing with wildom and firm
nefs-—not. to be above suspicion of dan
ger, nor yet alarmed at every appre
hension of the multitude, who are too
often the dupes of concealed traitors—
to attend to the duties of our station, to
preserve a good underftar.ding among
ourselves, and with the executive pow
er ; to' keep the national interest
ever in view ; to have a strict eye over
ih« officers of government,
quieting them ; to assist ministers intho
straight line of duty, without exciting
unjust and trifling complaints againlt
them; to pay the ftri&eft regard to
public opinion, and to consider our
selves as the guardians of the wisdom
of the nation, and the great support of
public dignity.
" Let it be our speedy care also to re
place without delay the desertions from
the army. It is better that the posts
fliould he but indifferently filled than
not filled at all—and in the last place,
tet us determine to fend commiffion
;rs to the army on the frontiers, to pub
;i(h an exaii account of their situation, &
prevent all uneasiness tq the public on
hat head."
Oclob:r 28. Notwithstanding the very
corvfiderable number of French officers
hat arc reported to have deserted their
posts on the frontiers (some fay 30 or
jo thousand) it is proved that these
iccounts are exaggerated. A letter from
he ininiftcrof war to the national affem
?ly, states the matter as follows. The
otal number of officers in the French
irmy is from ten to eleven thousand,
roin which have deserted not more than
wo thousand, exclusive of the body
guards of the king and princes, which
ire something fhart of 1500; and perhaps
sight or nine hundred more from the
jld reformed corps; so that the whole
lumber of deserters is between four and
Tve thousand ; who have resorted to the
everal rendezvous of the. ex-princes.—
[t is certain that the number of soldiers
hat have deserted to the party of the
jrinces is not near so considerable as
hat of the officers, and considering the
jbftacles that the German states have
hrown in the way of recruiting for the
French princes, it does not seem proba
ble that they will ever be in a condition
0 invade France with any profpett of
r uccefs,
LONDON, Nov. 15.
Notwithstanding the Royal acceptati
on, it is the opinion of many that Lou
is the 16th has no sincere love for the
new constitution. The people will ne
ver believe that he has, in reality, a re
gard for it, A government cannot longcontinue free where the governing pari
of the nation are not attached to the
constitution, and where the governec
have not a confidence in thole who afl
minister the laws : if such.a confidencc
does not exist, the people oppose the ex
ecution of the laws, and there is anar
chy. On the other hand, if the head o:
the executive power does not elteen
the constitution, he endeavours to pre
vent its execution. This is what Loui:
the 16th. has been doing these tw<
years, and will continue to do behinc
the curtain, till it shall be fafe for hiti
to throw off the masque. To keep thi
nation in a good humour, there is n(
doubt but he will show a temporary
fubmiflion of the decrees of the alfem
bly, and may even venture upon patri
otic actions ; but this hypocritical lub
million and coaxing patriotism will on
ly be the more dangerous to the nation
With regard to Great Britain little re
markable has occurred during the pre
lent vacation of parliament, cither to a
rouse the attention of the people, or ex
cite the curiosity of the politician. Tin
late armament, like the baseless fabric o:
a vision, has now almost vanished ; th<
greater part of the ships arc paid off
and the leainen being discharged, such o:
them as prefer vice and idleness to in
duftry and labour, will seek alivehhooc
by rapine and plunder. The expen
ces of this armament, which mull b(
considerable, will no doubt form a to
pic of difcufllon in the course of nex
feflion ; the abolition of the slave tradi
in all probability, will be alio revived.
It would be dangerou 'for the kingo
Spain at this time, to support any Ichemi
for overturning the new government o
France : many of the Spanish troops
polled on the fionticrs to prevent lulpi
cious strangers from entering the king
dom, have deserted to France. Shoulc
Spain commence hostilities against thai
country, a general defection might bi
the consequence ; the people, unawec
by a military force, might advance theii
pretensions to a greater share of liberty
the prisons of the Inquisition migh
share the fate of the Baftile ; anarch)
and csnfufion take place, and all thoit
mifchiefsenfue,natural to popular infur
refclions. If despotic princes reflect fe
riouflywn their real interests, infteado
aiming any blow at the liberties of Franc<
they will endeavour to manage the rein:
of government in their own dominion:
with moderation ; they will gradually
introduce such reformations into thei:
Hates as the present enlightened condi
tion of mankind seems to require; the)
will encourage trade, commerce, ant
manufactures ; banish intolerance a:
well as oppreflive diftinclions ; and b)
thele means prevent the necefiity of re
volutions, which, however lalutary tc
the people, are, for the most part, ac
companied with a£ls of atrocity and vi
olence, which the man of humanit)
would wish to fee avoided.
In many particulars, we think th<
new constitution of France much bette:
than our own ; and especially in thol<
most important points, which relate t<
the election and duration of the repre
fentative body, and to the entire fepara
tion of religion from politics. On thi
subject of this last articlc one canno
but admire at the pertinacious ftiflnef
of our civil and ecclesiastical rulers. Ou
countrymen are but twovifibly crampec
in their religion, violated in their mo
rality and infnared in their consciences.
If this island should still persevere in
imposing tests and fubferiptions, after
the unnatural and unhallowed alliance
of church and state is no lcis wifely
tlian virtuouily dissolved in a neighbor
ing kingdom (France) it will be dif
graceful to us, as Protestants, if we
continue to impede, and confound and
cmbarVafs the kingdom of Heaven by
mixing it with the kingdom of this
world, after they have been fevered by
an AJfembly, which some among us do
not scruple to ftigmatizeas an aifembly
of infidels and Atheists, it will be dis
graceful to us not only as Protestants,
but as the dilciples of Chrilt, and as the
l'ervantsof the living God.
Mr. William Augustus Bowles, who,
some time ago appeared in London in
the charactcr of an Indian Chief, was
not an Indian by birth, but an Anglo-
American, from Maryland ; who being
of an unlcttled, roving, and enterpriz
ing difpolition, attached himfelf to one
of the Indian nations, became enamour
ed of e lavage life, and, which is per
haps more excusable, of a savage girl,
whom he married ; then lettled among
her friends, and is now by adoption,
though not by birth, an Indian warrior.
Excepting Franco at the present mo
ment never was there a cpuntry)fuller ol
political writers than England. Hun
dreds of these suppose themselves qual
ified to write on the highest subjects,
without being fnmifhed with the requi
sites necellary to write with propriety
on the lowed; that is, without a compe
tent knowledge of orthography, gram
mar, and the elements of ratiocination.
This is particularly instanced in a late
book, entitled, " a comparison of the
opinions of Mr. Burke and Monfiem
Roufleau, on government reform," The
author's comparison between Mr,
Burke's reflections and RoufTeau's tracl
on the government of Poland is about
as just and ingenious as honed; Fluel
len's comparison between Monmouti;
and Macedon : There is a l iver ir
Macedon;and there is also moreover a
riverat Monmouth ; it is called Wye al
Monmouth, but it is out of my prains.
what is the name of the other river
but 'tis all one, 'tis so like as my finger;
is to my fingers, and there is salmons ir
both." (See Shakespeare's Henry V.)
The high-drained republican opini
ons of Mr. Paine were not to the gener
al taste of the Pari flans. Few people
there could reiifh his idea of changing
the monarchy into a republic, or as o
Lliers would have it, into eighty-three
confederated republics. Being a gooc
deal harraffea by the news writer Mo
rande, and other flicklers for royalty
he lias returned to this country, where
he will find twenty republicans for one
in France. It is remarkable that Mr,
Paine was taxed in France with having
:xerted himfelf on a former occasion foi
:he establishment of ariflocracy in Ame
ica—againft which charge we do not
/et learn that he has jufhified himfelf.—
Fhofe who examine the French confti
.ution attentively, will find, that it com
prizes all the advantages which any re
aublic, ancient or modern, could ever
joaft of, without thofc disadvantages
which areas natural to all republics a;
ifhadow is to a solid body. It is folly
,o be afraid of a king, when a ministry
ire responsible for his conduct, and bp
ides that lelponiibility can be changed
whenever a lcgillaturc, chosen by the
leoplc, finds tliem acting contrary tc
.he interest of the nations.
PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, Jan. 18.
A bill to reimburse certain extra
ixpences of the late commissioners for
reating of peace with the Creek Indi
ans, was read the second time, and or
dered to be committed to a committee
of the whole Ploule on Wednesday
next —and that the Comptroller of the
Treasury be diretled to lay before the
House a copy of the account of the laid
extra-ex pences,
Mr. Laurance, from the committer,
to whom was referred the written mci
lage from the Prelidcnt of the United
States of the 28th. ult. incloling a copy
of the Attorney General's letter to him
made a report, which was ordered to lie
on the table.
A message was received from the Pre
sident of the United States by Mr. Se
cretary Lear, as follows : —
United States. Jan. 18. 1792.
Gentlemen of the Senate and of the
House of Representatives,
I I.AY before you a copy of an ex
emplified copy of an ast of the Legis
lature of Vermont, ratifying, on behalf
of that slate, the articles of amendment
proposed by Congrcls to the conflitu
tiorr of the United States ; togethci
with the copy of a letter which accom
panied said ratification.
Geo. WASHINGTON.
Which message, with the paper:
therein referred to, were ordered to lay
on the table.
The House then resolved itfelf into
a committee of the whole on the com
munications from the President refpeft
ing the weftcrn frontiers—whereuoon
ihe doors were ordered to be shut.
Thursday, Jan. in.
The House met at the usual time, and
entered upon the confidential bufiuefs
commumcated by the PtefideiH of the
United States—after some time, tlie
galleries were opened, and a resolution
was moved by Mr. Fitzfimons, that
" the Prcfident ef thi United States be re
qucjlsd to dirctt the Secretary of the
Treasury to lay before the House such
information with refpetttothe finances
ofthe United States as will enable the
lcgifhiture to judge whether any additi
onal revenue will be neced'ary in con
iequence of the propoled increale of the
military eftablifhinent."—This resolu
tion was agreed to, except the words
" that the Prefider.t of the United States
be requelted to dirett''—which upon
debate, were thought best to be omit
ted.
It was then ordered* that a committee
be appointed to consider and report
what alterations ought to be made in the
_ O
for euablifhing the Treasury and'
War departments—Mr. Smith (S. C.)
Mr. Wadlworth, and Mr. Benfon to
be the committee.
A petition was read, from Robert
Byers, of Pentifylvania, praying com
pensation for four waggon horses,
which were drowned, while in the ser
vice of the United States during the late !
war.—Referred to the Secretary at War.
Friday, Jan. ao.
A petition was read, from Tedediah
Morgan, praying compcnfiuion for ser
vices rendered, in the late war—refer
red to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Alio a petition from Philip Long an in
valid ioldier, which was referred to
the Secretary at War.—A petition
from Griffith Jonc«, tanner, of Philadel
phia, praying compeufation for leather
Supplied to the United Stales—referred
to the Secretary of the Treasury—Peti
tions werealfo prefehted from Will rum
lilliott, an invalid -soldier ; and from
ivlyer Scudder, a wounded soldier,
which were read and referred to the
Secretary at War—as also the petition
of Benjamin 'i itcomb, an officer in the
American fervicc.
Mr. Bourne informed the speaker. that
the committee on enrolled bills had pre
ferred to the Prelident of the United
»sates, tor his approbation, a bill toex
:etid the time limited for lettlmg the ac
counts of the United States with the in
dividual states.
The order of the day being read,
he House in committee of the whole
igrced to take up the report of the Se
:retary of the Treasury on the petition
if Catharine Greene, widow of the late
Vlajor Gen. Nathaniel Greene.
After some time ipent in debating on
his fubjett, the committee role, report
ed progress, and asked leave to fit a
;ain —adjourned till Monday.
K N O X V I L L E, Nov 19.
About the loih inflant, a company thro'
he wildernels 10 Cumberland',,: was met 0.1 the
oad by a pa: ty of Indians. Upon Hill fight the
nen.(bei'ng fivenin number) rode olf with the
ittnoU. jire< lpnation, and left the women (fotir
n number) who were la terrified that they Were
jnable to proceed. The Indians came up, {hook
lands wnh them, and told them they fliould not
K- hurt, made a tire for them, and caught a flud
101k, tbax one ps the company had jumped fioin,
Jibjih th.vy lied to ,1 tiee. They, then wem af
er a small boy, who was attempting to make off,
md brought him back 10 tltc women. .Four ol
he company did not flop till they ieach.-d the
ettlement— the oilier three returned 10 the wo
men after some time.
[The above extract is taken from a Gazette
printed a Knoxville ok tlie Holflein, in the terri
ioiv of the United States, tooth of the Ohio;
md we have a pleasure in hearing that ihe wo
men, who had beciv.del'erted by .their fellow tia.
vellers, were indebted foi this remarkable pioof
if frimdly attention to a hunting party of Chero
kees; the nation with whom governor iiloun,
made a peace fall summer.]
ALBANY, Jauuary 9.
" Let quakers petition, and fpecuUtive eha
afters who glide only on the lurf3ce, fay what
:hey will 011 the fubj?£t of an Indian warfare, the
plain Enghfii of the bufiuefs is, ihat we can never l
obtain a permanent peace with these barbarians,
till we have reduced them to the feet of Congress-
The origin and jullnei's of our cause are now to
tally out of the qucflion. It is indeed to be (in- <
terely lamented, that we could not have obtain
ed a peace by fair treaty ; b;:t every one who
knows any thing of the natuie of lavages, mull
know that this desirable event can never be ob
tained, while they are riding tiiuwphant Id the
armsof vitlory. It will therefore be the policy
and interest of Congress, in our own defence to
make adecifive effort the enfuingcampaign. It
is supposed 6,000 men, to begin an early cam
paign by penetrating into the heart of their coun
jtiy f. om the Ohio, and half that number so pro
ceed through the interior of this fiale thither, t»
; -flat j 11 Oj polls-oil lake Erie, or to form ajunflion
' with the southern army, so as to diftraQ the lava
ges between two Hi -s, would be completely
competent to every purpose ; but perhaps it woul3
| be better for America, even to double this force,
j rather than to linger along two or three feeble
and undeciliye campaigns.
The following 6n;;ul>r incident, we are in
firmed from re!j>. table authority, occurred o>
■ the late lield-of battle in the weft. A young of
ificer at the clofs of the action secreted himfelf in
the hollow ofa latge tree, whi re he remni: .d uj.
dtfcovcrcd by the Indians the ictuaiiung part of
the dav of the battle —and through a small knot
hole—lie witnefted— a condufct that would dif-
jgrace devils broke loose from the infernal regi
ons.—The Indians proceeded 'o flrip and fca'lp
the dead, leaving the unhappy wounded languifh
injj under the double tortures of body and mind,
till they had glutted their savage vengeance ou
: the dead—after which they dilpatched all the
wounded with their tomahawks. Under the
fiiendly veil of the succeeding nighr, the officer
made his way through pathless for'efls to rejoin
his furyivingcomrades.
N E Vv'-Y OR K, Jan. 17.
Yeftcrdny morning the following plan for a
I NEW BANK in this city, fir: 1 made its ap
i pearance. At ten o'clock a number of citizens
; afTembled at Corre's Hotel, and appointed Alex
ander Macomb, Brockholft Livingfton, Abra
ham Duryec, Moles Rogers, and John M'Vick
ar, eUjuircs, commilfioners to. receive the fub
fcripiions. It was then proposed and agreed to,
that the books ftiould be opened, and continued
to till twelve o'clock, ai which time it appears,
by a report of the Eommiflionei s made last even
ing, that upwards of twenty ihoufari'd {hares were
lubferibed ; being an excess of nine millions of
dollars, beyond thfc propoied capital of the bank,
lb? firft payment of two hundred dollars on each
Ihaie is to be made on Thuifday, and on Friday
the stockholders are to pioceed bv ballot to the
choice of 13 directors.
At a meeting of the fubferibers to the Million
Bank, field last evening at Corre's hotel, Robert
I roup, Elq. was requested to take the chair.—
i'he commilfioners appointed to receive fubfciip
ti6ns reported, that twenty-one thousand seven
hundred and forty shares appeared to be fublcri
bed, and that in their opinion it would be proper
to reduce the number of fubferiptions to the fol
lowing ratio : 30 to have 3 shares, under 30 and
above 1,9, two, and 19 and under, one. The
qticftion was then taken on the above propofuion
which was agreed to.
On motion, the names of the fubferibers w'ere
then read.
On a fuggefiion that Tome amendments were
neccli'ary, and thst improvements could be niada
in the confiitution of thefociety, it was resolved,
that Melanfton Smith, B. Livingllon, C. J. Bo
gart, R. Tioup,andß. Lenox, be a committee
to revile and leport such alterations as they may
think proper to be made in the constitution : and
[thatthe-y fhoiild make'their repoit 011 Monday
evening next.
It Was then resolved, that the firfl payment
(hould be postponed till after the repoit of the
committee; and that the election of the directors
fliouldalfo be postponed to the fame time.
The meeting then adjourned till Monday even
ing at 5 o'clock, to again at Cone's.
A CAR D.
*** Gentlemen who have been unfortunately
d! Appointed in not obtaining the number of Pnares
they i'ublcribed for in the Million Bank, are in.-
!oi;ned that a new plan is now preparing for ano
ther Bank, the capital of which will be fufiiciei'ir
ly large to accommodate all who with to be mter
elled either with a view to honor or prcjit.
ORIGINAL ANECDOTES.
When the Count d'Artois, eldert brother of the
King of France, and the firft of the French (mi
grants, was about taking his leave of, the nation,
the King, his brother aiked him, " Why he need
be,ill such"a hurry to quit the kingdom—v.'liy (said
Louis) cannot you flay and share my fortune ?" —
Stay ! (replied the Prince) i know you so well,
that I am lure if the nation were to alk for my
head to morrow, you would be the firft to surren
der it to them without further ceremony 1
Cne of the Frofeflors at Trinity College, Dub
lin (beyond all doubt, an irithman) fccie time ago
undertook to abridge a certain work that had
been published in two volumes. Inflead of abridg
ing, however, the profeffor had, it seems, been so
well pleased with his work, as to convert it into
three volumes of the fame size with the original.
Soon after this event, one of the Undents of the
University brought an oration, or some exercise of
that kind, to the profeffor to correisl—The profef
for complained of the student's idleness in having
made the oration much too fhort—o,fir, (said the
tludent) if that's all, 1 mull beg the favour of you
to abridge it.
This Day are publijhed,
SERMONS,
Historical and Charafteriftical:
By WILLIAM LINN, D. D.
One of the Mimjlers of the Reformed Protrjlant
Dutch Church, in the city of New-York.
Sold by T. DOBSON, R. CAMPBELL, (3
M. CAREY.
[Puce Three Qutrters of a Dollar.]PHILADELPHIA,
January 23, 1792.
On Saturday lad his excellency General St
CLAIR, Governor of the -Western Territory
arrived in this city.
Paragraphs appear in some late English papers
•omplaining of emiflaries from the United State
infefling the Highlands of Scotland, with
View to persuade away thehoneft Caledonians ti
America, to be flarved or enslaved. A corref
pondent begs leave to remark upon these para
graphs, that as far as his enquiries have inform
ed him, there never yet camc a Scotch High
lander to America, who repented of his emigra
tion.
The duties on goods, wares, and merchan
dize imported into the diltrict of Providence,
Rhode-Hljnd, between the lad day of Jam
1791, and the firft day of January 1792, toge
thcr with the duties on the tonnage of vessels
amount to twenty-three thousand four hundrei
iixty-nine dollars and seventy-three cents.
The following particulars, relative to the lat
engagement with the Wrftern Indians, are men
tioned by a gentleman of Maflachufetts, whowa
at Niagaia when the news of the defeat of gen
<eral Sr. Clair's troops arrived—" That in tin
engagement the Indians loft but 56 of their num
ber; ihat they captured 350 of our troops, anc
eitimate our lols, killed and taken, at 1200 —tha
*the Indians were commanded by a Millafag<
"Chief, a man much in their confidence, who ha
been a renowned and fortunate warrior—Tha
the next day after the engagement, 700 Indian
Irom the westward, joined their victorious bre
thren; they came armed with bows, arrows, an<
spears ; a ctrCumftance which indicates that the]
have hitheno had but little or no acquaintance
"With the use of fire arms —That colonel Brand
was l.ot, (as has been imagined by many, —wit!
the Indians in the late action, but lay very sick
at a small dillance from Niagara: that the In
dians were much exasperated againfl him, an<
threatened to use him and his nation as they hat
done the whites."
The circumflances above mentioned, in con
junction with many others, probably not wide!]
variant from the tiuih, strikingly evince the ne
ceflity of Ipeedy, efficient, and decided measure
being entered into by the general government
to check the progress of lavage depredation, an<
prote& the inhabitants of the weflern country. /
lecoßd defeat may involve in its consequence
the ruin of thouiands, and the waste of almof
unnumbered acres, now cultivated by the hard;
hand of indufiry.
The following is copied from a Pittsburgh pa
per of the 14th instant— " The whole amount o
our fighting men in the late engagement with rh<
Indians was fourteen hundred men, out of whicl
were killed in the field fix hundred and sixty-six
and three hundred and thirty-four wounded
This is a true llatement which was received fron
head-quarters, and under good authority. It wa
expected and reported that Gen. Scott was to taki
the command of the militia from Kentucky, witl
what regulars there were at fort Waflnngton
The militia from the county of Columbia an<
ad;acent settlements turned out, and their exer
tions gained them great applause from genera
St, Clair, but the Kentucky militia declined co
ming forward by reason of some milunderlland
ing among them about a commanding ofiicer
in consequence of which the expedition fel
through."
44 On Thursday, the 15th inflanf, (fays th(
fame paper) a large fnpply of provisions for tht
gnrrifon at fort Frar.khn, was forwarded by th<
contractors, under convoy of a number of volun
teers from Wathington and this county, com
mar.ded by Capt. Hughes.—The Lft account
from fort Franklin camc to hand on Saturday
the 7thinftant —There appears to be no furthe
intelligence refpe&ing the hofiile Indians, thai
what has already been published."
A Baltimore paper of the 17th has the follow
ing paragraph — 4t A vessel arrived at Norfolk, ir
Virginia, the 13th instant fiom Cape Francois
by which we are informed that the insurgent ne
proes, after burning one hundred and thirty-fivt
plantations, had agreed to deliver thrmielves uj;
and submit to mercy. This surrender was u
take place three days after the vessel failed, whicl
brings this account."
Late papers from London mention a declara
tion of war by the Dey of Algiers against tht
king of Sweden, which was formally done or
of Ofciober. The Swediih (hips were a!
lowed forty days to depart from his ports and tht
Mediterranean, after whi, h they were made ha
ble t© seizure, if captured. The Swediih confy
had arrived at Leghorn from Algiers, havinj
been obliged to depart upon a very short notice.
The latcft advices from France mention nu
merous desertions from the ir army 011 the fron
tiers ; thele dclertioris are however confined t<
the officers, seduced by the French ex-princes
common soldiery remain faithful to tht
caule of their country. The army on the fron
tiers confifls of 146,000 effe&ive men. O
these, 27,000 are cavalry, and 8,000 artillery
There coniequently remain 111,000 infantry
two-thirds ol which (faysaLeyden paper) arc
distributed upon the frontiers ol Germany, anc
along the Rhine. To the above are added the
national guards, actually underpay and ready foi
fervicc. These amount to 107,00 a, making in the
whole an effective army of two hundred and fifty
three thousand men ; a force, it is thought, fully
fulficient tochcck any attempts of the expatri
ated princes upon tbe kingdom of Franco.
Ext rati of a letterfrom Albany, Jan. 15.
" A very extraordinary deception was a few
days since pra&ifed on the citizens of Schoharie,
by a knowing villain. He put up at Ingolt's
lavem, and in conversation with young Ingolt,
told him he would give him frx new dollars foi
three old ones —A bargain was, of consequence,
immediately struck. This was soon noised a
bout, and brought many people together, tc
trade with this extraordinary man for his new
dollars j and he exchanged with them to the
amount of some hundreds, all real good dol
lars ; telling them at the fame time that he coin
ed the new dollars himfelf, and that he made a
great profit in giving two for one, and that ii
they would furnifh him with any Turn of old
dollars, he would give the receipts therefor, and
in three weeks return to every one double the
sum they had given him.— His conduct so in
fatuated the people of Schoharie, that some cri
them mortgaged their lands to borrow money,
others fold off their horses and oxen, and, it is
said, a merchant advanced him eighty pounds ;
others fifty, twenty, ten, five, &c. to the amount
of about 5001. He then hired a Heigh and gave
the man a dollar for every fix miles to drive
him to the Hudson, wherewith to purchase some
things of the apothecaries, in order to make hi:
dollars—Here the story ends, and the citizens o!
Schoharie are left to repent, when too late, theii
unparalleled credulity."
By the last accounts from Europe, on th« con
tinent, the French emigrants in Germany, at th<
head of whom are the felf-exiled princes of th<
blood royal of France, had been very much check
ed in their attempts to raise recruits arid forn
thcmi'elves into an army for the purpose of at
tacking their country. The emperor s niiniftei
plenipotentiary at BruiTels, in answer to fevera
memorials of the emigrants, has informed them
through their deputies, ift. That the governmen
cannot permit them to raise recruits in any par
of the emperor's dominions in the Low Countries
ad. Liberty is allowed to all Frenchmen, witl
passports, to travel iingly through the Jmperia
dominions, but not in armed bodies, even totht
amount of fifteen men. 3d. French officers ma]
pass into the province of Luxembourg, to tranf
a<sl any private business there, but not to atfl un
der the authority of any commission whatever
4th, French soldiers palling and re-passing thro
the Imperial dominions in the Low Countries
without passports, to be' considered as deserters
and given up to France in virtue of the cartel fet
tled between the two powers of France and the
emperor. sth. French gentlemen and officer!
not to meet in colle&ive bodies —Suekmccttng.
being entirely inccnjijlcnt with the laws oj hoftnta
lity whic government is determined to preserve
| From this sth article it would seem, that the
purposes of these collective bodies, were to wVeal
their vengeance upon such adherents to the Na
tional Aflembly, as they should find in the cinpe •
ror s dominions.]
The above reftridtions, it may be worth whilt
to observe, are nearly as degrading andhumiha
ting as those laid on the negroes in the Wcft-ln
dies ; and indeed one would be led to think tha
the person who drew it up, had the Jamaics
negro laws before him as a precedent. No strong
er proof could he desired, than these reftri^ions
of the sincerity of the emperor's profeffions in fa
vor of the new government of France.
From a Correspondent.
Since the 3d day of March, 1789, between (
and 700,000 children have been born in the
United States—How prolific is the general go
vernment ■
During the firft year of the government, the
price of pioduce Was lco percent, higher thar
at anytime before—A happy proof of the be
neficial fvftem of Congress.
Of late the fame articles have fallen 50 pei
cent, lower than before the government was
eflahlifhed—What a rapid degeneracy has taker
place in the Congreflional systems !
PARTIE S.
INcvcry political foci 'ty, parties are unavoid
able. A difference of intercfts, real or suppo
sed is the moss natural and fruitful source oi
them. The great obje& fliould be to combat
the evil : 1. By cftabli-fliing a political equality
among all. 2. By withholding unnecessary op
portuuities from a few, to increale the inequal
ity of property, by an immoderate, and especi
ally an unmerited, accumulation of riches. 3,
By the fil en trope rati on of laws, which, with
out violating the rights of property, reduce
extreme wealth towards a tlate of mediocrity,
and raise extreme indigence towards a state ol
comfort. 4. By abflaining from measures
which operate differently on different intereßs,
and particularly iuch as favor one interest at the
expencc of another. ,5. By making one part)
a check on the other, io far as the existence ol
parties cannot be prevented, nor their viewsac
commodated.—lf this is not the language oi
reason, it is that of republicanism.
In all political societies, different intercfts
and parties arise out of the nature of things, anc
the great art of politicians lies in making them
checks and balances to each other. Let us then
increase these natural djlinftions by favoring an
inequality of property ; and let us add to them
artificial di inttions, by establishing kings, and
nobles, and plebeians. We {hall then have the
more checks to oppose to each other : we (hall
then have the more scales and the more Weights
to perfect and maintain the equilibrium. This
:s as little the voice of reason, as it is that of re
publicanism.
From the expediency, in politics, of making
natuial parties, mutual checks on each other,
to infer the propriety of creating artificial par
ties, in order to form mem into mutual checks,
is not less ablurdthan it would be in ethics, to
WV, that new vices ought to be promoted, where
[hey would counteract each other, because this
life may be made of existing vices.
Late Advices from Europe, to the istb November.
The ravages of the plague have been terrible
during the last Cummer and early part of the fall
at Constantinople and other parts of Turkey. In
Egypt, particularly, the effe&s of it have been Ic
werely felt, the number of persons destroyed by it
Deing estimated at two hundred thousand, among
tfhich are twenty thousand of the foidiery, and
;welve Beys.
Some rebels to the Turkish government in
Egypt have made themselves matters ot Al-caircj
[commonly called Grand Cairo) the capita! of thai
jrovince. No resistance has been made on the
>art of the people, and by the moil authentic ac
counts, the government of the whole country is al
eady in the hands of the rebellious party.
Letters from Aleppo, in Syria, mention the ar
ivai there cf two thousand Turkish troops to quel
ome inlurre&ions that had taken place : the in
labitants revolted against them, and after an en
jagement of three days, obliged the Turkish troop:
:o quit the city*
A peace has been concluded between the empe
or of Morocco and the court of Spain—a treatj
>f pacification has also taken place between th<
ley of Algiers and the fame court, in confequenci
)f which the latter is invested with certain privi
eges, for which the Spanish commercial companj
trading to the coast of Uarbary aie to pay onc<
:very two months two thousand sequins of Algieis
i'he dev has declared war against the king of Swe
den, and the ambaflador of the latter power ha:
aijed -for Leghorn, being only allowed five day
or his depar:ure.
It is now confirmed by a variety of letters botl
from Paris and Berlin, that Mr. Dumoutier
French envoy at the court of Prulfia, is intendec
:o succeed Mr. de Montmorin, as minister for so
:eign affairs.
The sol. owing is an official paper from the hnper'ia
court.
<c The govrrnment-gtneial being informed tha
M. M. the French officers, continue to take re
fuge in great numbers in the Low Countries, tha
they aflemble in the cities and towns of the fron
tieis, that they form new corporations distinguish
;d by new uniforms, and that they perform mili
:arv exercises and evolutions, which, though the;
a.enot armed, cannot fail to produce a fenlatioi
:oo strong for that tlate of ferment, in which thi
lifturbaiiLes of the provinces haveleft many minds
:ne miniver plenipotentiary thiuks himlelf boun>
:o inform M. M. the French refugees, thro 7 M
e due d'Uze?, to whom he has the honor to aa
irefs the prelent note to this effe& j
" That it cannot be permitted that M. M; thi
French officers should afiemljle in the town of An
:oing, or that they should form a body of too grea
i number in the fame fpor, particularly on thi
ronliers
(t That it cannot be permitted that they fhouh
[erform in a body, even without arms, miliiar
evolutions j ana rtill less that they should retain
>n any pai t of the territory of his majesty, foldieis
ieferters from the French troops; and that in
fcfftftion fliall be given to the officers commanding
he troops of the emperor, to watch over these ob
edts, as well as every pait of the conduct of M
M. the French officers, which may extend beyon<
he h'jfpitality which they have demanded. The;
nay be well perluaded that there is no intentioi
•ntertained to deprive them of the asylum whicl
lis been gra ted them."
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Mr Freneau,
Sir*
When this country wa9 a part of th<
Biitiih Empire, the Britiih parliamen
vas admitted to have the power to regulate trade
r'artly by virtue of this power, partly by an abul<
)f it, imposts and reftri&ions were so laid as tc
avour or dil'courage this or that article of iniluf
ry or produce,.in this or that place, according t<
he particular views of her policy or interelt. I
»eing impolfible in many cases to separate fron
he regular operation of this power on commerce
n incidental'and indirect operation on internal ob
c:l± \lcr unfair regulations, though sometime:
nurnjured at, were not opposed, nor very rig
dly lcrutinized. Taking courage from this libera
cquiefcence, she at length set tip a claim to le
jifiate, direillyon all internal cbjetts : in* ti
i<:r difcrttion. Then it was that the quick fight
:dnels and spirit of Americans showed themselves
They soon made the world fenlible that ulurpe<
>Ower could neirhcr cheat them by sophistry, no
iwe them by force, giving a noble leflons to thei
)ofterity, ever to watch against governmental en
rroachments, and to ftifle them in their birth. Ever;
:itizcn ought to be proud of this diliinguifhe<
rait in our national character.
FRANKLINIENSIS,
Mr. Freneauj
Pica ft to infer t the following.
A kind of art Epigram*
IN fix fiiort days the world was made,
And time defin'd by light and (hade ;
Ihe Trio Council of the Ikies,
The work devise—
" That on the seventh reft obtain,
Let none the holy tide, profane —*
Columbia, fir'd by great example,
Refolv'J of this to give a sample,
Her councils three, in whom's combin'd
Pow'r iminenleand sense refin'd,
In solemn majesty decreed,
(As many hands make greater speed)
Five days with them were full enough
To work up all their heavenly fluffy
And on thefixth, from motives pure,
The mi&hty Qongrcf* rrjl endure !
A B.
FRANCE.
Pjrist OPoler 28. The complet? freedom of
religious worfliip is one of the greatest blessings se
cured to this nation by its constitution. Govern
ment therefore is under an absolute necessity of
I rigorously punlfhing any attempt that looks like
I 1 revival of persecution. Something of this
I kind has happened between some zealous females
and the devotees of an Irish church, who were
extremely ill treated by the former, being beaterv
and abused in a scandalous manner. —This w'as a
direct infringement of the decree which enjoins
che municipality of Paris, ts to take every mea
sure to prevent any attack upon religious liberty,
and to fuppoit every individual )n his natural
right of worftipping God in his own
provided he does net in the exercise thereof, dif •
turb the public tranquility." This decrce, so
pointedly in favor of religious toleration, has been
succeeded by an ast of the municipality still more
remarkable. On the 14th of O&ober, this body '
attended divine service at a protestant reformed
church, in the street of St. Thomas du Lowvre y
where a I'ermon was preached on the completion
of the eonftitution, and its acceptance by the king*
Our mngiftrates, at the head of whom was the
mayor of Pari?, wilhed to teftify by their exam
ple 011 this occafiort, to the great truth, that in
all the varieties of wqrfliip, it is ftifl the fame
God that men adore. Mr. Marron, paftorofthis
church, preached an excellent sermon upon this
occasion from the Gospel of St. John, Chap. 8,
verse a fight as this was truly afFediing,
as well as sublime—especially as there were prel'ent
a confiderabie number of the of those
unfortunate persons, whom the fanatical despo
tism of Louis the 14th. had compelled to fly their
native land.
The general council of the commons, to teftify
their fentimentsof esteem and regard for M. He la
Fayette, on account of the services he has ren
dered to his country, have iflued the following
decree.— 1. A gold medal /hall be (truck in honor
of M. de la Fayette j the emblems and inferiptions
upon which to be lurni(lied by the academy of
Bel es Lettres. 2. The statue of WASHING
TON, in marble, (hall be prefentcd to M. de la
Fayette, to be placed in fu&h a situation as he
shall diredt, to the end that he may at all times
have his friend in view, wbofe conduct and patri
otic chara<fler he ha- so worthily imitated. The
decree containing these dispositions to be placed *
under the bust ot M. de la Fayette, presented to
the municipality of Paris tweive year 9 ago, by th«
United States of America.
it would be useless to repeat what has been (o
often mentioned, the regret of the public for the
loss of an onicer to whom this country is so
much indebted. It may however be proper to ob
serve how well the modesty of his condud has
given the lie to his jealous enemies, who have not
been aihamed to characterize him as a man of
ambition, a new, mayor cf the Palace 9
whose principle it was, never to part with power,
|(hat had once been confided to him. These slan
derous reports are wholly obviated by the fad 'it-"
I elf,' M. de la Fayette having quitted Paris the
inltant he resigned his offices and retired to his
lands, fituat.d in the province of Auvergne, imi
rating thereby the conduct of the immortal Wain*
ington, after he had secured the liberties of Ame
rica.
The cardinal de Lomenie de Brienne, lately one
Df the Pope's conclave, has resigned his cardinal
fhip and all the dignities appended to that office,
to his holiness the Pope j and adhered to the re
formed French clergy. The pope in a long speech
before his consistory, has recommended punishing
lim with severity, if he continues obstinate. His
)olinefs much regrets the loss of Avignon and the
a hole Comtat de Venaiffin, which are nowre-an
lexed to the kingdom of France ; he has but two
launch friends lefr, and these are Naples and Tuf
:any, whole ftrid attachment to the holy fee is
Jjjeriv owing to the engaging and amiable man
iers and prudent conduct of Pius the sixth.
PRICE or STOCK.
Funded Debt.
S'x per cents, per£. - -
per cents, - - - 15J3. Jf/4-
"eferred fix j.er cents, -- - - 15J7.
Unfunded Debt*
Final settlements, - 22/6.
lntereft due previous to 17S8, lif.
Indents, - 14f.
Bank Stock 1 2 Shares 112, to 113 per
cnt* advance.
at sixty days - 117#
—at four months, - 123.
Full (hares bank ltock> - 68.
— payable in May next, 72.
Meteorological Observations*
January, 1792.
D. H. Bar. Ther .Wind. We ath*
Monday, 16.7 30. 018 n.w. Fair.
I? ,30. 0 26 do. ditto.
Tuesday, *7-7 3°* 11 7 w - Fair.
1 < 30. 7 29 do. ditto.'
IVednefday, 18. 7 29. 95 15 n. e. Cloudy.
2 29. 8 23 do. Snow.
Thurjday, 19. 7 29. 619 n.w. Fair>
a 29. 6 28 do. ditto.
Friday, 20. 7 29. 711 s.w.Fair.
2 2q. 55 30 do. ditto.
Saturday, 21. 729. 8 20 w. Fair.
2 29. 8 26 do. Cloudy.
Sunday 9 22. 729. 75 14 n. E.Snow.
2(29. 75 17 do. Cloudy.
WANTED immediately, a JOUR
NEYMAN BOOK-BINDER,
to go to Lancajler♦ Enquire of Francis
Bailey, printer, No. 116, High-Street*ON COUNTRY TAVERNS.
A COUNTRY Tavern is generally a place of
rendezvous for all the choice spirits of a
neighborhood. Here petty law suits are decided
at least once a fortnight, srnd he mull be an indif
ferent juflice of peace, who presides at such trials
(as they arc called) who will not drink both? with
plsintitf and defendant, after the suit is decided :
with the firft- to congratulate him on his success j
with the latter to con Cole him lor being cafl, and
iuving coll* to pay.
Happy would it be for every community if ar
dent spirits could be banUhed from- anongft them.
The consequences of too free a use of these are toe
well known to be recapitulated.—lt is obfsrvable,
at those country taverns where liquors of that des
cription are kept, the traveller is frequently indu
ced to delay his journey, the neighboring plough
man to misspend his time, and the once indus
trious tradesman to negie# and beggar his family.
I (hall conclude t»hefe observations with some
lines written la-ft winter ac a country tavern, where
from the introdu&ion of a fingie of rvtn f con
vivialitjrand good humour were changed into mad
ness and brutality, and numbers of the guests,
who came, perhaps, only to pass a social hour, wenl
away maimed, muttering, and laftiflgly embittered
against each otter.
The JVG of RV%T.
WITKW these earthen walls con£n*d'
The ruin Jurks of human kind :
Wore mifchiefs here united, dwell,
And more d iff ale* haunt
Than ever plagu'd the Egyptian flocks,
Or evercurs'd Parrdora'i bo*.
Within these prison-walls repose
The feeds of many a bloody nose,
The chattering tongue, the horrid oath*
The for lighting nothing, loth,
The nOse with diamonds glowing red,.
The bloated eye, the broken head !
Forever faftenM be this door—
Confjn'd within, a thousand more
Pcftru&ivc fiends of hateful lhape
JEven now are planning an escape :
Here, only by a corlt co"ntroul*d,
-And flendfcr wall* of earthdn mould.
In all their pomp of death reside
Rsvingc, that ne*£r was fatisfiei,
The TRtt that bears the deadly fruit
Of maiming, murder,, and dispute,
Assault, that innocence afi'ails,
The images of gloom) jails,
The giddy thought, on mifchief bent,
The evening hour in folly spent,—•
All these within this jug appear,
And>—Jack, the hangman, in the rear !
Thrice happy he, who early taught
By Nature—ne'er tills poison fought y
He, with the purling ftreameuntent
The beverage quaffs that Nature meant y
Jo Rejfon's scale hi* actions wei&lv'd
His spirits want no foreign aid-
Long life is his, in vigour pafs'd,
£xiftence welcome to the lalt—
A spring that never yet grew stale ;
Such virtue lies in Adam's alb*
Philadelphia, Jan*' 2T.
From tb* American Daily Advertiser.
HAVING, with deep concern, viewed the late
difaiiroui events of the western war, I have
been led seriously tt> invertigate, by-every means in
my power, the causes leading to these misfortunes,
by which many truly valuable lives have been loll}
a very conf;derable expellee fruitle&ly incurred,
and a deep and lifting, wound given to the honour
of the arms of the United States.
In this point of view, it is worth enquiry, whe
ther,- all circumstances considered, the modes pur
sued in the two late unfortunate campaigns, were
the best adapted to chaHife the lavages, and pro
tect the frontiers J, and chat, wich the greatest cer
tainty of success, and the leatt cxpence of blood
and treasure.
If in this enquiry, it appears, they were not;
then it may reasonably be prelumed, the former
modes will be no longer pursued but some other,
more promising, adopted in their room.
Laying aside allenquwy, with refpeft to the rea
sons on which the war is founded, and talcing it for
granted, that it is founded in ju&ice, which,
by the bvc, is very problematical j and that the
peace, fafety and fecurily of innocent people, and
not territory, nor any end, still less juftifiable, is
the objedf,
Let me here just propose a few queries j the ob
vious answers to which, will i think, place this
buftnefs in a very clear point of view, both with
refpedk to the measure* already pursued, and thoft
proper to be pursued irt fature.
What may be the necefl'ary numbers of which
an army should consist, to put the etfablifhment of
a post at the Miami Village, on a footing of moral
certainty—fay four thousand.
Will h not then be in the power of the savages
to watch our motions, and make very probable
calculations cf our progress, and arrival at any gi
ven point ?
Will it not, alio, be in their power to discover
our force, and nuke their arrangements accor
dingly ?
Will it fiot, also, be in their power to retain any
number of their people, and allies, for many
wetks, in ■ woods abounding with deer, as that
country is, detached in small parties, at a proper
distance from our line of march to prevent disco
very, and yet so near, that at any timt in a fliort
period, they may ail becollefled to one point ?
If these things are so, and their determination
should be that we cannot be attacked with a'ltrong
probability of success—Will our army in that cale
find any thing more than empty huts, and corn
fields ? Will the deftru&ion of those be an obje&
worthy of such an apparatus, attended with luch
a profufion of cxpencc; when it is a
well knotvn fait, that, when lavages have not
bread, :hey can subsist city, well pa the Ikih cf
iears, deer, and buffaloe—So that even, in this
;vent their futterings would be trivial and-tempo
rary j the very next season re-supplying all their
wants.
B Jt if on the other. hand„they should apprehend
themselves superior to our people, either by thsir
numbers, or by discovering a want of discipline in
our troops j an advantageous liluation for an at
tack, a want of vigilance in our guards, or any
other unfavorable circumtiance attending us j (and
in these things we fcldom find them mirtalcen)
the horrors of the last defeat can only paint the
probable con fe que nee, of, to us, such an unfortu
nate moment.
But suppose for a moment, that from the pow
er, vigilance and order of our army, they ihould
decline an attack, j
Are we to suppose them conquered —by no
mM&s y they would no doubt medita-te a blow on
our escorts of provisions ; they would probably re
flect, that those fpa*es of thirty miles between
each of our ports,,- would give them an ample op
portunity for such a blow j and that,, with great
probability of success j unless an army, nearly as
powerful as the one by which the ports were firft
eftabliihed were to be always employed in convey
ing the provisions from fort to fort, through tfcut
e*tenfive tradfc o£wildetnefs from fort Wafb-ington
on the Ohio, to the fort to be eredted at the Mi
ami village t the fuctefs of such an enterprise, in
consequence of which, molt probably, a) 4 the out
ward ports would fall, is horrible even in idea.
At the'beft, and supposing all the fucceis which
can be derived from a powerful army in the heart
of a wildernels j the whole inducement to tlia.s
mode of warfare, murt arise, either from an
pe&ation that the savages, not able to meet us in
the iieid in our collective capacity, will immedi
ately lue for peace j er that the Briti Ih. emifluries
and traders will be kept from among thern ; but 1
cannot, 1 confefs, fee either of thele fuppofttions
as very probable. V/e find thole tribes poiTefted
of ferocious courage—when they are attacked in
rhe very heart of their country—when all is at
ltake, and when Co recently, they have been be
yond measure, ani pro.bably, beyond expectation
Repeatedly fuccefsfui, can we be so weak as to flat
ter ourselves that a liogle exertion of ours will re
duce their proud Spirits to fubmiriion. if we wiih
to know how they will probably ast under such cir
cumstances, let us for a moment reflcft orro*>rown
conduit, even, in much more difartrous situations.
Did we dream of fubmiflion when Britain in a
manner annihilated our trade, depopulated our
country, pofTeffed our citics— No, no such idea.
Though these are savages, yet they have a high
sense of independence, and but little moveable pro
perty to loose. Their hunting grounds, in other
words, their country is their all; and. for this we
may reasonably fuopofe they will struggle to the
lalt extremity j nor can they, with propriety, be
blamed for so doing, especially by us so lately en
gaged in a rtruggle somewhat of the fame nature.
Nor can I fee, so long as they continue hostile,
how three or four garriions, in woods, every way
accefiible, thirty miles distant from each other j
and from which oar people will venture but very
tmall diltancej, and mort probably with much
caution, can ever reftraia or prevent traders from
the Britifli frequenting their towns, and f-arnifhing
them with- every supply in their power, without ai
rnort, any chance of being in any degree interrupt
ed by us, considering, especially, that habits of in
timacy may be supposed already Coexist between
the Britifli and those Indians.
As this mode of warfare has proved fufßciervtly
difartrous, and promises little in future but extra
vagant expence, and very podible, if not probable
difappoiiftment, let us a little consider, whether
some other mode may not be deviled, less liable to
uncertainty, less expenlyve, and at the Came time
much more likely to humble those proud savages j
and corivince them of the necessity of culiivatiog
peace with the United States.
To that purpufe let our fortifications be at pre
fect confined to the banks of navigable waters;
where supplies can be taken at ail times with fafe
tv, at a small expence. Let those fort* be made
places of real rtrength, where stores t.f all kinds,
but especially provisions, may be securely depo
sed j, fufficient to supply any body of men which
may be necefiary at aay time to lend into the In
dian country.
Prosecute a defaltory war a-gainrt them ' r let our
men go mounted on good horses ; and carry their
own provisions. Their march in this way, will
be so rapid, that their approach to the Indian
towns, or other objects of attack, will probably be
the firil notice of the expedition. On this-ptan.it
wilt 5e utterly impoluble for the Indians to conti
nue prepared fur defence for a fufficient length of
time. The uncertainty of the place where, and
the time when the attack will be made, together
with the rapidity of our movements, whereby
their women and children will be exposed as well
is their warriors, will all conspire to lhike them
with terror ; and induce them to sue for peace,
with a people from whom they will find they can
no longer escape.
On this plan, few national troops will he necef
fary j this some people only alledge will be no re
commendation of the measure, but I hope better
of our government. Let the mounted troop 9be
formed from our expert woodsmen, and let them
be well paid. In this way 1 am convinced that
less than a sixth part of the number requeue to
the former plan, will be fully equal to the buli.nefs,
as the Indians not knowing of their approach, they
cannot pofiibly be prepajed for their reception j of
;c<Jurfe it will be attended with lit;le danger and
almost a moral certainty of fuccefsj and may be
so repeatedly renewed that the enemy in a short
time may be reduccd to the grcateft imaginable
dirtrefs.
The ex re.ice of such an arrangement will be
merely trifling in comparison. It is noway pro
bable that many lives will be loll; especially
when we consider how such expeditions have suc
ceeded heretofore, and how few have fallen in
them. Witness Carolina againrt the Cherokees
»n several occasions; and the more recent inrtan
ces of those expeditions under generals Score and
Wiikinfon. When these, both as to effect and
fafety, as well as the very small expence attending
them, are compared with the difartrous campaigns
of generals Harmar and St. Clair, and that under
general Sullivan in 3779, two of these provingd'e
>lorable defeats, the cither a viQtrry truly laugha
ble, at an immense expence, with five or fix thou
"and men, in a whole summer season, a doxen o:
irteen Indians, chiefly old men and Iq.uaws, wtri
killed.
Surely there can remain very little ground ti
doubt which plan is the most eligible. Elpeciall;
when it is conlidered, that a desultory war will f<
tffe&ually keep the Indians in fear at home, as thi
they will not venture to come on our frontiers.—
Whereas at the end of a regular campaign, the;
very well know, that the danger is over for th<
fealon, and that they may with fecuiity at home
prosecute th«ir depredations on our frontiers.
Notwit'nftanding, on this plan of war, wornei
and children may be expoftd 5 yet 1 would be fa
from recommending brutal cruelty j our fyften
Dught to be tempered with jattice, and mercy
and ac the fame time that we attack them in th
way in which they are mod venerable, we ough
to lee that our cause is just—and even on fuppo
sing i.just, our severity fliould extend no iurthe
than bare aeceflicy } \>e /hould convince them
that their cruelty ami not our infatiab'.e third to
dominion or territory is the occasion of the war
that we wifii to live in peace with them and t
pay them honestly for what we desire or theirs
and supply them on reasonable terms with th
goods which they ft and in need, of, and receiv
from us*
To throw light on a on which the pub
lie mind is at prelent much engaged, is my lole in
tention. If the hints heic thrown out with
plainness and candour, becoming a citizen of th
United States, have any influence in leading t<
public measures, which may prove lels expenfivi
of blood and treafuie, more fate for the frontiers
and more honorable for the United States, my de
sign will be fully answered. M.
To the Editor of tbe National Gazette
Sir,
THERE has lately been an attack made ii
the newspapers, by a person who signs him
te 1 f A Catholic, upon a member of our state le
giflature, f«r faying that 44 lotteries were like th>
Pope's indigencies, forgiving and permitting fins
to raile money." I conceive there is a dea
ofieafon in what the member (for whof
talents atd learning i have in many refpe&s ai
esteem) and am aftortifhed at the timid and in
deciflve manner in which he has anfw*red his as
Cailant A book was published femewhat lels thai
two hundied years ago, by the authority 01 th'
then Tope, with a long 1 iii of indulgences, am
the prices affiled to them. An account of thi
book may be seen in Guthrie's geographical gram
mar, and various- o.iher authors. Among uthe
absolutions were the following :
For him who lies with a the s. d
church, . » .91
For a layman for murdering a layman, 7 1
For him ihat killed} hi* father, mother,
wife, or sister, . . 10 (
For laying violent hands on a clergyman,
so it be without eftufion of blood, 10 <
For hitn that lieth with his own mother,
[iftcr % or Godmother, . 7 I
This price currer.t y as it has been wittily calied
has been often alreied.
If any one will apply to Cardinal Beliarmine
and the other catholic writers, he will find tha
they all defc.d the right of the Pope to giant in
dulgencies. in the time of Luther, the fope be
ing in gieat want of money, conceived thee*
pedient of raising it by the sale of indigencies
which routed the valiant spirit of Luther to op
pose the proceeding with admirable talents am
learning, it is known to every one the leaftcon
verfan: in hiltory, that this was the opening o
that glorious reformation which afterwards alto
nifhed the world. There are people now tiving ii
America who have purchased indigencies so
their fins of the Pope. If the catholic will run
to his bible, he will find that St. Fauh prophe
tically speaks of *• the man of fm, the f>u o
perdition, who oppofeth and exaltcth himlei
a bove all that is calied God or worfhipped,fo tha
he as God fkteth in the temple of' God,, fhewinj
hlmlelf that he is God." If this be aor rne<>n
for the character of the Pope, blasphemously, a
God, forgiving the molt horrible lins, i lh uja o<
glad the catholic, who pretends to be a man o
Come learning, would tell us whom it describes
Du Moulin, in a work entitled, 44 New Brick
for the building of Babel," tells us that Cayer, j
popish writer, maintained, Que le Pape doit eftri
adore, 44 that the Pope fhouid be adored." Sumi
have called him 44 lay Lord God the Pope." Jr
another letter I may, perhaps, make forue cbter
nations up»n other afTertions of the writer, Wh>
ligns himieii' a Catholic. In the mean time ,
will observe, that 1 have a great refpecl for thi
good intentions of many Roman Catholics in thi
as in every part of the world. Sr. Paul fays tha
(ome who followed the man of Jin, were to foliov
him with the dccci<vablenefs cf unrighteoufnejs, tha
is, as I conceive, they were 10 suppose themfelve
doing what is right, when they were doing wrong
VERUS.
I (hould- be happy if a temperate fnveltigation o
the do&rines of popery were entered into through
the newspapers. 1 kno.v the good manners, am
the learning of some of the Roman Catholic cler
gy. T.ie pretended Prutefiant price currcnt ir
vour paper of the 19th inft. is so übvioufLy forged
that it is not worth the while to fay a woid abou
it.
Late Derations to Mr. Peale's American Mujcun
are as fcltovj :
THE Antelope, or Coiine of monsieur Bufi'on
an inhabitant of Senegal—Prefentcd by Mr. Dar
by, of Salem, MafTachufetts.
A large crab, caught on the eoaft of Spain
weighing nine pounds—Prefent«d by Capt. Deca
iure.
A tube of vitrified sand, made bv a stream o
lightning, found in a field belonging to Maithev
Ef<j. of Cape-May. About the last c
July, 1791, in a thunder-ftoroi, a stream 0
lightning was seen by Mr. Weldon to strike th<
ground, where neither tree, fence, or any thing
higher than some very small ihrubs and graf
grew. Immediate!}' after the stash, a fmcke
fire were discovered at the place, which made hinj
conclude that some old tree on the ground was on
fire. Several persons of the family went imme
diately to the spot, and found the grass for some
yards around entirely consumed, in the centre or
which was a-hole of vitrified sand } at the entrance
it was aboiu one inch diameter, but considerably
le'lTened under ground, Sc digging a small distance
down, they found that the tube branched out into
many branches, that were diminiihed in their
size the deeper they pursued them, which was.
fwmething moFe than three feet beneath the lur
face of the earth,—how much deeper they might
have gone was not tried. In the pafiage of the.
eiediric fluid, such stones as were in it* way were
melted and cemented to the tubes..— Presented by-
M. Dec at are.
The Violet Crab-, from the Weft-Indies—Pre
fen ted by Mr. Abraham Witmar.
Four pieces of that remarkable and stupendous
work of nature, commonly called the Giants
Caufway, in the county of Antrim, in Ireland—
Presented by Capt. Henry Geddis.
The Monack, or Marmote, commonly called
the Ground Hog—Presented by Mr. Johnfor,
N ew-jerley.
A pair of white doves (alive) from the Weft-
Indies—Presented by Mr. Marie.
A pairof Mogul flippers—(elegan:)—
by Capt. O'Donnel, Baltimore.
The Noddy, a bird remarkable for fallinginto a
deepfleep the minute it alights on avefie), com-*
mon in the Welt-Indies—Presented by Mr# Sa*
muel Purveyance, Baltimore.
A beautiful Fawn (American) —Presented by
Mr. Samuel Wilson, Sumerfet county, Maryland.
A remarkable large turnip, weighing eighty
pounds, which grew in North-Carolina iutt lealon
—Preftnted by Miss Olw,iid.
A pair of Eik horn*. They measure in Jcng'.h
four reer, and the witfth between the horns, at
the extremity of the ends, is two leet jo j-z inch
es, weighing twenty-live pounds—Preknted by
Mr. Derick Peterfon.
A Madagascar batt, raeafuring acrofi the
wings, extended, three leet lour inches—PieL-nt
ed by Capt. Daniel Howiand, Baltimore.
The Balance Filh, or Hammer-Hi ad-Shark —
" This is one of the most extraordinary fiih in the
world."—lts head is different in form from aJI
other fifh, being placed'travelicly to the line of
the body, with large eyes placed at the two extre
mities of the hea4—Presented by Mr. Francis
Giilett, mariner,
Steds of the Mahogany tree, inclosed in its
fheils—Prefented by Michael Hillegas, t:q.
Part of the fortification erected on Brai.don
hill, by Oliver Cromwell, when he the
city of Br idol : and some coal or the church,
built within the fort, by the Hollanders, ia
cue fir ft lettlement of New-York, which was
burnt in the negro plot—Presented by Ebenezer
Hazard, Ef^.
A petrified oyftrr, with both ftells feparared,
which plainly Diowa the oyster, and the heart
was connected to each ilieli—Pielehted by Mr.
Sibbald.
The Acccivay Bajket and Pagal, used by the
natives of South-America.
And the Carribean cudgels, which they use in
rlcfe a&ion—Prefented by Mr. N. Roufielet.
The head and beak of the iword-fiin—Prefented
by Mrs. £gger.
A few Copies of the following REPORTS and
ACTS may be had at the Office, No. 239.
Market-Street.
REPORT of the Secretary of the Trca
fury, relative to a provijion for the
support of public credit.
Plan for the general arrangement of the
Militia of the United States, by the Secreta
ry at IVar.
Report of the Secretary of State for efla
bftfhrng a uniformity in the weights, mea
sures, and coins oj the United States.
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury
on eftablifiiing funds for paying vnterejl on
the debts ajfumed by the United States.
Attorney General's Report on the judici
ary Syjiem of the United States.
Report of the Secretary of State on thefub
jeQ of the Cod and Whale ffh tries.
AbflraEl of the Exports df the United
States for one year.
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury
on a National Bank,
Secretary of State's Report on Weflerr*
Lands.
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury
on Manufactures.
An Att to incorporate the Subscribers to
the Bank of the United States, zuitk the Sup
plement.
An AEI to provide more effeEluaUy for the
Collection of the Duties onG oods, Ware*, £s?
Merchandize imported into the united.
States, and on the Tonnage of Ships or Vcf
fels.
The Act commonly called the Excise Lclco•
The JOURNAL of the House of Repre
(entatives for the three Jivfi fff LOns i wit' l
dexes complete, may be had separate, or half
bound in one vol.
The LAWS of the firfl three fefions of
Congress (published by authority) in folio,
half and zchole bound, with a complete In
dex.
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND S w A I N F,
AT OFFICE, NO. 259, HICK-JTP. El'? 9,
VIA* sixth-street,
PHILADELPHIA.