Vol. I.
Mr. FIND LEY'S Speech, in the Hcrufe oj
Representatives of the United States, on
the Assumption of the. remaining State
t Debts.
DURING the progtefs of the discus
{ion in support of the refoldtion
it has been presumed by all the gentle
men on that fide of the question, thai
the irredeemable principal ingrafted or
the funding system, was an equivalent
\ for deferring one third of the debt foi
ten years, in short, that it was eqtfal tc
the original contrast 5 confaquentlj
that the funding system, including the
irredeemable quality, was a full dif
charge of the original obligation, anc
that the amendment now under debate,
if adopted, would be a breach of the
original contrast, and would operate
unjustly towards the public creditors.
in all tranfafctions in public life,
wherein I have been engaged, and the
public creditors concerned, I have
steadily attended to their honest claims,
and (upported their interests, agreeably
to the principles of the government :
In this I have acted with the fame in
dustry and zeal that I have exercised in
contributing to accomplifla the revolu
tion, frofn which these claims origin
ated. I have been attentive to the pre
j'ent funding system, in its progrels tc
existence, and in its operation and ef
fects ; and I did, and still do believe,
that the irredeemable principal was nc
equivalent for the departure from the
original contrast. lam also persuaded.
that it is inconfiftcnt with the original
contract, and contrary to the principles
of the constitution, and unsuitable tc
our political circumstances. With
refpeft to the firft, I know of no la\V
cxifting in any of the ftafes whereby 2
debt which the creditor can only reco
ver at a distant period, and in very
final! installments, is rendered more va
luable, than a light to recover it on de
mand, and all a« 0..e time—'Sifpoftng o]
property, to be a:d for in in foments
and at a distant period, is common ir
this country ; bu: .n that c.fe the pri
vilege is supposed to be enjoyed by tht
debtor, for which he always pays ;
higher price. To piefume that putting
a man's just claims to prompt paymen
out of his own power, except in fuel
small portions and distant periods as h<
cannot reafoni-bly calculate upon re
ceiving, in thecourfe of one generation
nortofuch an amount at any one time
as can be applied to any valuable pur
chafe, is presuming contrary to reason
to the laws and the usages of the Unitec
States.
But it maybe answered, that the pub
lie creditors, as a party in the contrast
had a right to agree to such terms, i
they pleased ; and that they did agre<
to them is by their acceptance, in sub
scribing to the loan, teftified. It is no
pretended that the terms werepropofec
by the public creditors ; so far from this
■it i« well known that many of then
rcmonftratcd against the terms of th<
funding system, and gave an ample tef
timony against the irredeemable qualit)
being an equivalent for deferring, or ir
other words, lowering the interest o
the debt.
Their acceptance of the terms is n<
proof of their voluntary approbation
it was not optional to them on impar
tial ground. Provision was made foi
the interest for fifteen years, and the ob
ligation made perpetual in favour o
those who fubfcrib;d ; and if I am noi
mistaken, the provision was afterward:
made perpetual : And what was the al
ternative in favour of those who did nol
accept ? Why they had a provision oi
four per ccnt, made for one year only.
Without any obligation for continuing
that provision, and without interest up
on their interest, as those who fubferibe
have ; and so recent and striking an in
stance before them of disregard to the
original obligation both in matter and
By P. FRENEAU: P'MiJked Monbms and Thursdays, at Three Doi.lars per annum.
MONDAY, May 7, 1792.
form, as is witrieffcd in the funding law,
was a discouraging circumftariceto those
who would have o'therwife preferred
retting their claim upon that ground.
In this situation interest and necessity
di&ated the propriety of accepting the
terms of the funding fyflem, not as an
equivalent for their claims, bat as the
bell they could get. That the original
holders accepted with relu&ance, and
remonstrated, we know, that many of
that description, as well as foreigners,
did not actcpt at all, is evident from the
question before us: the parties there
fore were too unequal for a ccnteft,
and the terms were too unequal witl
refpeft to security, to render the ac
ceptance a pioof of approbation.
The truth is, that the irredeemable
quality appears never to have been in
ended as a real or solid equivalent. 1
was wholly calculated to be a fubjetl o
peculation, which might draw the atten
tion of persons in thole countries, when
from the superabundance of specie capi
als, enormous national debts, and Ion;
labits in stock jobbing, speculation i
aeeome a feience. To promote this th<
innatural and novel diftin£tion of part
which had no foundation in the con
:raft, and a variety and neceflary flue
uation in the comparative value, wa:
ntrcrduced. This diftin&ion and va
riety was well adapted to bean induce
tnent to the meritorious public credi
:ors, especially such of thetn as refidet
;n the country, to part with their cer
tificates.
The two thirds of two thirds, the <
per cents, the three per cents, deferrec
debt, &c. all in one certificate, which
fl-fc'a witli ;y;
obligation simply of 6 per cent, upor
the principal, until it was paid, is ft
much beyond his comprehension, tha
be prefers parting with it, to keeping
it on terms which he does not under
Hand, and which he conceives may witl
equal ease be changed again by thi
fame authority into other and more un
intelligible varieties. To this end it ha
corresponded to admiration ; few in
deed are the certificates now in th<
hands of original holders, of theagricul
tural class.
One leading advantage which the
promoters of the funding fyftsm fug
gefted would arise frqm its opera
tion, was a circulation of the revenues
to the more remote parts of the coun
try, in payment of interest, which hac
been previously drawn into the treafu
ry by duties, and had the fvftem beer
udapted to the genius and circumftan
ces of the people of the United States
this no doubt would have been its er
feft. and in this way a beneficial balancf
of circulating specie would havs beer
supported.
It was also suggested that the certifi
cates, when appreciated, would aiuimt
the form & use of a circulating medium
and in this way be as a substitute foi
money, promote the purchafmg of land
improving the country, and give a gen
eral spring to industry : and this faluta
ry effett a funding system, calculatec
and guarded suitably for that purpose
might also have had. But these impor
tant confequcnces have been complete
ly defeated by the irredeemability anc
other peculiarities of the funding fyf
tern : that the funding system wascalcu
latcd to be a field for speculation, wa;
the general opinion of people of reflec
tion when it was originated. Arte
what have been the eiTetts of its operati
on P Why, it has introduced the mofl
extravagant Combinations, promoted
fictitious credits, and by giving a facility
to flock jobbing, in all its varied forms,
has become an enormous and :uinous
snare. It has occasioned many of the
most enterprising characters to desert
the ufeful p.tths of industry : dilTipati
on, gambling, extravagant projects and
extravagant modes of life are promot
:d to such a degree as to be ruinous to
our morals ana degrading toour ration
al. chara&er. Wealtli hastily gotten,
without industry, has changed the
gtades of society andere&sd a new and
formidable interest iA the common
wealth. One week we behold fortune;
rising like exhalations, and the price 6i
fljor.fes blown up above all rcafonable
calculation—but perhaps before the
next week arrives we find the stocks
fella fourth or a fifth, and dilappoint
ment, bankruptcy, and stagnation of the
most ufeful branches of commerce,
fpreadir.g ion'fternation far and wide,
the tales of villainy and confequenl
diftrels swell up the news of the day.
I hough I have not changed my opinion
of the funding system, since it made its
appearance, yet I confels its delusory
and eninarmg progress has been more
rapid, the bubbles have sprung up and
burfted in a greater variety and in quick
er fucccffion than I expected. General
eonfidencc and contentment among the
citizens has not been among the elFetts
produced by the irredeemability, and
the complex and mysterious forms of
the funding {yftem.
A principal advantage the funding
lyftem was to produce, was the lower
ing the rate of interest for money ; in
deed this was the principle upon which
it was supposed to be calculated : it was
to reduce the rate of interest to five 01
even four per cent, by its beneficial op
eration as a circulating medium &c. I
a/k fir, has it had fileeffeft ? No, it has
list, but the reverse. I acknowledge cer
tihcates have been purchased at a rate
t'iat would not afford five per cent, up
on the price given for therS, and that
even alter they were above par—Rut
at the fame time the rate of negociable
interest rose to a usurious height .• no
luch instances of usury were heard of in
this country at any former period, (ex
cept in th'c times of general distress and
bankruptcy occasioned by old debts,
lofles in the course of the war and an o
ver importation of goods at the conclu
sion of the war) and this has not beer
incidental, but the native effect of the
system. Negoaiable interest has roll
too high for the solid purposes of com
tnerce, and capitals and attention hav<
been withdrawn from it by the bauble
of the times—and by the prevailiiu
fluftuationsinthe funds and private ere'
dit, the regular circulation of credi
and cash suited ;o commercial purpose;
;s obstructed. However I do not de
iiy but that importations are to as grea
afl amount as ever. I believe the amoun
is too great for tiie public good, but'thi
is not the result of the quantity, or higl
price of our exports, but it is the returr
for our certificates transferred toforeign
ers-to whom they are in the more efteerr
bccaufe of that irredeemable quality t<
whichlobjeft—ln confequcnce of thi;
we become tributaries to foreigners, o
ver whom we hsve no controul, anc
from whose wealth we can derive no ad
vantage—this evil has already prevail
ed to a great degree and by the prefenl
system can neither be remedied nor pre
vented.
I have said that the funding system is
inconsistent with the original contrail—
this is evident from all its complex anc
mysterious division of parts and differ
ence of value which had no foundation
in the original obligation,many instanc
es of this might be adduced, but I will
only fete& one. The aQ. of Congrefi
provided for the redemption of the" old
continental bills of credit at 40 for one;
the funding system provides for it at the
rate of one dollar for the hundred, and
that dollar fubjeQ: to its divisions of
parts and value. Is not this a total de
parture from the contrast both in mat
ier and form P it is vain to answer, that
the Congress money had been consider
ed as loft, and had depreciated much
lower than one for forty ; the fanftion
of an ast of Congress supported by the
obligation of the constitution fixed it at
Numb. 55.
forty for one, and the fame power that
could alter it to one hundred for one,
could anihilate that or any original
claiifi altogether —I am not here treat
ing about the equity of the claim's—but
about the legillative authority of C6n
grefs to change contracts which they
were bound to fulfil, both by the a£ts of
the old Congress, and an cxprefs ciaufe
of the constitution.
In preparing, and enacting the fund
ing law, Congress seems to have laid a
side the character of the legislator and
afTumed that of the judge, whereas their
inoft conlpicuous character in transact
ing that bulincfs Ought to have been
t'hat of a party prevailing for the pay
ment of their debts ; but in acting the
part of a judge they have taken it up
on an original plan, they have changed
the value and the principles of theclami'
by a mere act of their will, without be
ing guided by realons taken from the
original obligations, but have rather
been influenced by the contemplation
of the mighty political machine they
were about to erect, viz. an unextin
guifhable national debt, and cor.folidat
ed monied iritereft.
1 have al 'o laid that the n redeemable
quality of the funding system is contra
ry to the constitution. Congress have the
power of applying the public refourccs
towards paying the debts of the union;
every fuccefiivc Congress is equally
veiled with that power, it is derived
immediately from the conflitution to
=very Congress andnot derived through
the laws of one Congress to another; but
in the funding fyitem, the Congress
who enacted it have decreed that no
succeeding Congress shall pay the exist
ing debts of the United States, except
in certain small and distinct instalments
which perhaps would occupy two, or a
part of three generations to compleat f
certainly the present Congrels cannot
fay unto the next or any future Congress
that they shall not do what the constitu
tion expressly %s they have power to
do ; and yetif we reject the amendment
and adopt the relolution we are in fact
faying so ; if we do so we are holding
out a farther delusion to the citizens -
snares of t his kind have proceeded far
enough already, a future Congress cer
tainly will disregard this reflraint and
repeal the rriedeemable quality of the
funding system.
The creditors who hold those claims
for which we are about to provide have
an unquestionable right to & per cent,
interest upon the original claim, butnot
to intei»elt upon the interest, but to a
provision for extinguishing the arrears
of interest; all the different laws which
I know of contemplate a delay of pay
ment of interefl and expressly guard
against paying compound interefl. The
party to whom interest is due may claim
and recover it at short periods, but ix
it is not claimed or cannot be got, any
supposed ddaydoes not enable the cre
ditor to claim interefl thereon ; this
proves that legal interefl is supposed
in the law to be a fufficient compeufati
on for the delay of payment.
My firft design was to have moved to
amend the resolution lo as to provide 6
per cent, for the principal according to
contract, and have proposed some pro
vision for paying the arrears of interest,
but upon reflection I find the business
so far put out of its natural course alrea
dy that I have relinquished that design ;
the progress of innovation has been° so
great that it is difficult to tread back
the ground, therefore I will vote for
the amendment.
One difficulty which influenced me
to give up my firft design was, that not
only the arrears of interest which arose
since the firft of January, 1788, is fund
ed at three per cent, to those who sub
scribed to the loan, but also the indents
of interest issued previous to that peri
od under the confederation, which liad
{ieelafi Page.)CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVHS.
WF. Mav 2.
An engrossed "bill concerning tile duties
on spirits diftilted within the United States,
being read a third time, and having the
blank.? filled up, was passed, and sent to
the Senate for their concurrence.
An engrofled bill, relative to the com
pensations of certain officer 1 ; employed in
the collection of the duties o< import and
tonnage, was also puffed on a third reading,
and sent to the Senate for concurrence.
Another engrossed bill was read a third
time and not pnfied, viz. A bill, to conform
an award of referees between the United
States and certain contractors for fnrnifh
in?; fupplie-, of provision for the use of the
army during the late war.
On the queftion,for palling this bill, the
yeas were 25 : the nays, 27.
"Yeas —Messrs. Ames," Barnwell. Ben
fbn, S. Bourne, B- Bourne, Fitzfimons,
Goodhue, Gordon, Hillhoufe, Lawrance,
Learned, Livermore, I'age, Schoonmaker,
J. Smith, I. Smith, W. Smith, Sterrett,
Sturges, Sylvester, Thatcher, Tucker,
Vining, Wadfworth, Ward—2s.
Jsa.ys.—Meffrs. Alhe, Baldwin, Browne,
Clark, Dayton, Giles, Gilman, Gregg,
Grove, Heifter, Key, Kitchell, Lee, Ma
con, Madison, Moore, Muhlenberg, Mur
ray, Niies, Parker, Seney, Sheredine, Steele
Sumpter, Venable, White, Williamlon 27.
Mr Benfon laid on the table a resolution,
declaring that it shall be lawful for the
contractors above mentioned, to proceed
by petition againftthe United States, in the
Supreme Court, &c.
A message by Mr. Secretary Lear, noti
fied' the House, that the President of the
United States had this day approved and
an ast for calling forth the militia,
to execute the Laws of the Union, to sup
press infurreaions, and repel invasions ; —
and also an ast for raising a further sum of
money for the protection of the frontiers.
Mr. Secretary Otis informed the House,
that the Senate had appointed a Committee
to join with such committee a? the House
might appoint, to wait on the President and
notify him of the proposed recess of Con
gress.
Pursuant to the order of the day. the
House resolved itfelf into a committee
of the whole, on a bill supplementary to
the ast making provision for the debt of
the United States.
The firft section being read, as follows,
B? it enacted. See. That the term for re
ceiving on loans that part of the domestic
debt of the United States which hath not
been fubferibed pursuant to the terms pro
posed in the ast, entitled, " an ast making
provision for the debt of the United States,'
ihall be, ar.d it is hereby extended, on the
lame terms as in and by the said ast is pro
vided, to tie,firjl day of next ; and
books for receiving such farther fubferip
tions ihall be opened at the Treasury of the
United States, and by the commissioners
of loans in each of the said states, 011 the
dav of next, which shall continue
open until the said firft day of
next, inclusively, for which purpose the
said commiiTioners refpeftively are hereby
inverted with the like powers, and required
to perform the like duties as in and by the
laid ast is directed.
Mr. Giles moved to amend it. by insert
ing, after the words •' to thefi.Jl day of
next, the following claule, —(which he
had before endeavoured to introduce, on
the 28th. and 29th o" March, and the 2d of
April, when the resolutions, which served
as theground-workof the bill, were under
consideration) —viz.
. • . except that condition in the ast,
which renders the debt, so far fubferibed.
fubjeftto redemption, by payments not ex
ceeding, in one year, on account of both
principal and interest, a proportion of eight
dollarsupon thehanired, on any certificate
which shall beiffuedaccording to the term
therein fpecified; —which condition, so fat
as it felate3 to any part,of the debt which
may be hereafter fubferibed, shall be abo
iifhe*.
After a debate offome length, the queur
on was taken on the proposed amendment
and passed in the negative,yeas, 17; nay:
(not counted) about JO-
The Committee then rose, and reportec
prog refs.
Thursday, May 3.
The House considered and agreed to the
amendments proposed by the Senate, to th<
bill authorifmg the grant and conveyance o
certain lands to J. C. Symmes and his affo
ciates' —and receded from their amend
meats (disagreed to by the Senate) to th<
bill for the relief of persons imprifonec
for debt.
The message from the Senate was thet
taken into consideration, expressing theii
disagreement to sundry amendments pro
posed by the House, to the bill for regufa
gating processes in the courts cf the Liiitei
States, &.c. T
The House receded from some, /nd in.
Cited upon others of their amendments
and appointed a committee tc confer with ifi
1 committee of the Senate, on the fubjeft oi tl
the disagreeing votes of both Houses. t(
One of the amendments, on which the t(
House infilled, was to strike out a ciaufe e
empowering the creditor to "pursue a capi- \
as ad until a tender be n
made of debt and costs in gold and silver. ' 1<
After a lengthy and Vnterefting debate on
the fubjeft, the question for reading, being
taken, pafieu in the negative, yeas 18, nays -
38.
Yeas—Messrs. Ames. S. Bourne, Fitz
fimons, Gihiian, Hillhoufe, Murray, W.
Smith, Sylvester, Wadfworth, Kenfon,
Boudinot. Gerry, Goodhue, Learned, J.
Smith, Steele. Thatcher, Ward. —18.
Nay's—Messrs. Alhe, Barnwell, Brown,
; Clark, Go-don, Grove, Key, Kitchel, Law
: ranee, Livermore, Madison, Muhlenberg,
; Niles, Schoonmaker, Sheredine, Sterret, :
| Sturges, Tucker, White, Baldwin, B
[Bourne, Dayton, Giles, Gregg, Griffin, '
Heifter, Huger, Jacobs, Macon, Moore,
Page, Parker, Seney, I. Smith, Sumpter, !
T red well, Venable, Williamlon.—3B.
A message was received from the Senate, j
notifying the House of their resolution
that the bill authorizing the remission of
certain duties, should not pass to a third (
reading.
Mr. Secretary Otis delivered a second 1
message from the Senate; informing the 1
House that they had agreed to the proposed
conference on the fubjeft of the pructf. .
bill, and appointed conferrees 011 their ,
part: —also that they had pafied a bill in ]
I which they requested the concurrence of '
the House, viz.
" A bill to continue in force a;; ast to
provide for mitigating or remitting the j
forfeitures and penalties accruing under
the revenue laws in certain cases : and to
make further provision for the payment o f " '
pensions to invalids."
The bill, supplemental to the ast making (
provision for the public debt, was again ta
i ken up in committee of the whole, and t ur-
I ther progress made therein.
The following addition(propofed by Mr.
Fitzfimons) was made at the end in the
. third feftion, viz.
"That where the sum, (hall not be fuh
fcribed before the day of
next, it shall be lawful for the holder or '
poffefibr of any evidence of the debt ol
l'uch state, issued between tiie tft of Janua
ry, 1790, and the firft day of January 179*
to fubferibe the fame until the sum, p.flumed ,
for such state, shall be fully fubferibed:
provided that such evidence shall be of the
like nature and issued for the fame purpo
ses, as is prescribed by the ast intituled an
ast," &c.
Mr. B. Bourne gave notice of his inten
tion of bringing forward a motion, when
the bill comes before the house, for a fur
; thet assumption of the state debts.
Mr. Madison expressed his regret that
since the honorable gentleman intended to
make fcch a motion, he would not make it
in the committee of the whole, where there
would be a fairer opportunity for a full
and candid difcutlion of the fubjeft.
1! Mr. Murray laid on the table a resolution
1 that the fame per diem allowance be made
■| to the President pro tempore of the Senate
jas to the Speaker of the House of Repre
sentatives, and that a committee be appoin
■ i ted to bring in a bill for that purpose.
II The committee l'ofe, and tlie House Ad?
• journed.
_ ■
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
J EXCISE LAW.
! '""P'HE fate of the excise law will defrnTiiar
' A whether the powers of the Government of
the United States are held hv an arifiocratic jun
to or bv the people. Ever since the eflablilh
• ment of the law, the people have been so averse
• to the excise, that the produce of the excite on
\ Am erican produce has not been lufricic-nt to pay
falarics of its pimping officers. Early in
the prelent feflion the table ot Cor.srels was
! covered with petitions from the people com
s plaining of the excise law as a grievance—Thele
r petitions were negleQed by the repreleinativcs
los the people, and were very itnpropeily hand
" ed to an executive olficer who was th ■ occasion
of the injury, and was interelled in fupportin,-;
" it, As might have been expe6led, he has sent
' alengthy report in to Congress, jufiifymg the
s measure and explaining awav the ohjetlions of
_ the people with cunning and fophiflry —and re
■' commending to Congress to perfeverc in the de
» tefled measure, and to augment the salaries of
the excisemen. A prepared majority in the
; iegifiature are about implicitly to adopt the opinion
e of this infallible lecreiarv—To infute luccefs 10
f the business, a fanftified friend of ariflocracy
. rievoutlv proposes that the members ot both
- houses of Congress (hould in solemn procession
e wait on the President of the United States and
d requetl him to appoint a day of fafling. prayer,
and humiliation, that the clergy of all denomi
n nations fiom one end of the continent to the
r other, mav intercede with the Lord of Hods to
- rlifpofe thejnindsof the people to obedience.—
- Some wary members of the junto have contem
d plated this proposition, and believing that the
free citizens of America will not quietly fuffer
. the tvell born few to trample them under foot,
■, and that a juU Providence will not interfere to
support tliei: "A'Cil, vricL'd rrd tnju" ,
therefore these men have brought forward a law I i'e
to empower the Prefidenf of the United Sia'f* '
to make life of the militia of one (late to pu' the, l\
excise law and other l«ws in force in aijQihrr. it
Where is the, jndependehce of the Hate govern-: it
meqts ? It is time for the people of Ameiics If
look into their public affairs. '>
CENTINEL. r.
Mav 5- I~Q- • j*
. _ , o
PHILAD'ELP H I A.
11
MAY i -92. p
Authentic copy of a letter from a qevtl-mav in Cape ' t
Francoi* to his correfpordent >n this city—dated j.
Cape. Francois, April it, I'f)2.
" Since I did nvyfeU the honor of writing t
you under ift March tiltimo, I have betfrt t
in daily expectation of qnittlrrg tllis sity.
and therefore discontinued that narration y
of public occurrences which J have taken
the liberty of traufmitting voh frorn hence. j 0
in the hope fson to have the pleitfnre of
comratinicating it to you verbally ; but t
finding it yet uncertain when I may have ;
the gratification of paying you my personal %
refpefts, I remnie the pen, to acquaint you a
that several trartfports arrived here in the j
course of the month of March, with troops, c
military (lores and provisions. The whole a
number of troops actually arrived fntce the j
commencement of the infnrreitioH, which!
is now near eight months, is only about! j
three thousand five hundred. I think these] .
■ fcarQely replace those soldiers and citizens j .
who have been (lain by the insurgents, or: (
who have fallen victims to the ficknef; oc-i,
cafioned by those fatigues incident tomilita-i (
ry exertions in this climate- Before the ! ,
newly arrived troops ?.r; seasoned, their, ,
numbers will pro'.ablv be greatly d'minilh-! ,
ed by ficknef-, which has already made con-I
(iderable ravages among them—ln my opt-! (
nion, an aSive campaign of one month I j
would destroy one half of them. On the ,
contrary, the number of insurgent- daily!
increases, and they apparently ast with grea- •
ter ardour and obstinacy than in the early j
periods of the revolt. It is but about three!'
weeks since, the infurreftion manifefted it-!'
felf throughout the parishes of St. Jean Rab-i,'
and Mefique, near the Mole. The usual de-j
■ vacations followed. The white partythus! j
comparatively very weak in point of num
bers, is (till more enfeebled by moral than by
pkyfical causer.
Those everlafl'ing political diffention
which eft range the colonifb from the mo
ther country and from each other, prevent
any important exertion of the public force
agavnft the common depredators. Now
and then a small detachment of whites make
a f idden excurllon into the plantation', ex
' pend considerable quantities of ammunition
without doing much execution, and give,
the infwtiftg rebels convincing proof-; of;
' weakness bv;is fpeedlly retreating into foraej
fortified port. While jealoitfv and infub
; ordination pervade almofl every defcriptionj
i of men in the colo ty, these inutile skirmish- 1
es will continue deftrtiftive to the party'
J which purfiies f:irh a vague warfare. The
civil authority fears to ced: too nlnch to
\ the military, left ftich cession (liould be
! drawn into precedent and become permanent. 1
The military is vexed at the encroachments 1
which the civil power has lately attempted
and at its interference in cases which fun-:
damen-allv affect the difeipline of armies, i
Individuals in both departments difterfrom
their'colleague-—every individual, would point
out the made of every proceeding, and would
insolently command cn every occafon, but can-j
not (loop to obey on any. Cordiality Teems;
to be banished from the council and the
field, anduniverfal licence prevents ail the
f gaod effects that might result even from in-j
" dividual exertion properly directed.
Toward the latter part of last month 1
- things were driven to that extremity he
-11 tween the colonial aflembly and the gener
» | ral that it was. thought some tragic ftenes
n would : levitablv ensue. Whi'e the «ene
s rai was in' the midst of the colonial afiemhly:
■ endeavouring to juftify Himfeli agiinflfnn-i
e dry malignant charges, the populace wtaii-j
:s outdoor?, and even in the gallery of the;
- afiembly. with loud cr'.e- demanded li.i'sj
n head. —Nothing lefo Id apparently fa-!
3 tlsfv the finguinary, many-headed moufter.
11 It was near three o'clock in the morning
e before the tumult was so far appeased as
>f that it was thought fafe for the general to
- retire to his house, though fttrrounded and
supported by 70 or 80 military officers.—
>f The expedient then adopted by the afl'em
e bly tofreftore tranquility, was arrogating to
n itfelf the sovereign authority by diverting
o the governor general of his command, and
y ordering him sent immediately to France
h under a charge of high crimes and mifde
n meanors. The next day all the commif
d fioned officers of the troops of the line fta
•, tioned here waited on the general with
- thfir resignations which they requeited him
e to lanftion, andalfo begg'd permission to ac
-0 company him home. Wlien an account of
- this tranfaftion was laid before the afiem
- bly, it leem'd to bring a majority of the
e members to their feafes a little. On n re
:r trofpeftive view of their recent resolves,
t, they found that they had far exceeded the
o legitimate limits of their aKthority, asd be
,—, to cl.-. nd ttJ cnf. qsencesthat might
result t«| tUg colony acid to them individu
ally from so daring an insult offered to the?
luprenie executive of the nation. The
(till, small voice o f reafon began to elevate
i tic If, and a deputation was dispatched to
the governor general, (upplicating him to
bury the 'art n-:ercation in oblivion, and to
resume' the rein of government. A. mim-'-j
b,?r of refpec'f able citiz-'.is joined the circle
of military officers who still fnrroiinded the
general, and declared publicly that they
would leek for and endeavor to bring to
iu(lice those dark, defiini'.ng knaves, what
produced the recent in the
'populace, and would particularly endeavor
to d.fcover those fwgninary villains who
had the audacity to demand the general's
head. It was not without much persuasion
that M. de Hlanchejande was prevailed on
to comply with the requisition of the afleiri
bly. He obfcrved. that as that body had
j nfurped the power of vacating the governs
! meat, it mull be refpoufible for all
! quences. —He wiflied rather to return to
> ranee and fnbmit his conduct to the i.ivef
tigation of Ilia superior*, than continue here
in the exercise of a precarious authority.—
where he is not only fubieft to be continu
ally vext by the mod flagrant inuances of
infflbordination, but must either be in a
continual llate of warfare with the colonial
alfembly, or fubjnit to the mortification of
functioning encroachments on the legiti
mate prerogatives.of the executive power,
j However, he at length yielded to' the re
| peited inflance- of tiie co-mriii'fioners who
addressed h Hi on this occaiion, and was ef
i corted down to-the hall of the aflembiy a
' mid ft the acclamations of a great number
' of sober citizens, who were known, and
! who declared the;' would support him in
| the due exercise of ail his functions. Since
: that day tolerably good order has prerail-
J ed. The general hasailnrned rather a bigh
'er tone with the aflembiy ; —and in my con
i'cience. to speak as a good commonwealth' -
i man, I think him perfectly jufKfiaWe in it.
| The co'onial ademblv lately apro-nted
, Tome rew corrtrr.iffior.ers from thrt body-to
j the national amenably of France, in order
'.j verbally to plead thecaufe of the colony, and
: to endeavor to arrest the contagion of those
' specious opinions injurious to it, which
. have been so indnflrioufly difiercioated by
some impolitic pretinders to philanthropy.
, Those commiflioners took their departure
the week before last. The altercation be
. tween Messieurs the National Commiflion
ers and the Colonial Aflembiy had arifsn to
t fucb a pitch, that there did not appear the
o leart probability that the object qf their
- minion would be attained in any reasonable
time. This, together with some personal
insults, I suppose induced M. Mirbeck to
-j abandon his purftlil and embark for France
e j fh r ee or four days after the colonial com
missioners. —M. St. Leger for months past
has been visiting the different parties at
. i Port-au-Prince, Croix-des-Bouqtiets, Le-*
n J ogane, and is said to be now at St. Marc,
.j His manoeuvres are not favorably viewed
„! by the colonics. M. Roume yet remains
here; but I understand the colonial aflem
r) bly refufes to hold any official comrnunica
e tion with hi.n ; —ailedging that M. Mir
beck's departure for France abrogates in
j| the commission under which he at>ed.
The political dictionary of those gentlemen
feems to give a definition of terms very dif
{l erent from that of St., Dom'tngue. and the
n mrtizans of both are tenacious of ther ref
it pe&ive interpretations. A majority of the
c | colonists are disposed to dispute tiie exten
sive power which the commissioners- claim,
isi When M. St. Leger was lately at Port
au-Prince, it seems he thought proper to
e exercise his dittatoria'l authority by giving
-I particular directions to the principal offi
! cers of the military corps stationed there,
'■i'. which induced them to difobev the requisi
tions of the popular rnagiftrates.—Thirty
of the principal military officers have been
■s lent round here in confluence— the colo
nial aflembiy have required the general to
ly: hold them under arrest, and fend, them by
l-l the earliest opportunity to France, there to
i-j trke trial si r their misdemeanors. —Two
ej daysfince the governor-general fignined to
isj the aflembiy, that he had come to a deter
i-l mi nation to takehis departure immediately
• j for France. The most refpetlable citizen ;
g of the Cape, apprehenHve that the word
isl consequences would result from the gene
•oj ral's departure at this critical moment, ex
idi erted themselves to prevent it by the most
—| loyal representations to him, andfreiterated
i-i promife.s of their firmeft support in the cx
:o! ercife of his legitimate authority. M. de
ig Blanchelande, in consequence, went thir day
id to the colonial aflembiy, accompanied by a
:e great number of the citizens of the Cape,
and made a manly and pointed address,
f- wherein he represented how much his ope
i- rations had been cramped by the injudicious
th and illegal interference of the aflembiy —
in expreft his hopes that in future it would
e- confine itfelf within due bounds, and eu
ol' deavor to fulfil the purposes of its inftitu
a- tion, —otherwise he Ihould be under the
iie necessity of diflolving it, being aflured of
e- the support of a majority of the refpeftable
?s, citizens of the colony who had recently iig
he nified their determination to promote every
e- means which ihould he directed to the getvtra! good, however it m'.g'.it apparently |
interfere with tiieir particular Sntereft.— I
hop.- tills fpirrTed remotiftrance, whereof I
<:a;) o:iiy give you an imperfect sketch at pre
fcnt, will he attended with a good effect."
Letters from Pi'.tfburg as late a* April 29,
pive frefh accounts of I ndian depredations 011 the
frontier of P.-nnfylvania. On the 17111 a party
of lavages fnzed two liorfo lords of piOvifions
rear Morrifville Mills in Washington conntv ;
tt?e whole o' winch. howevet, with the horses
was recovered in a few houis by the activity of
Oapt. Paul, and a party of his men.—The fame
G 1 y a confiderabls flock of horses was taken from
Morrifville efltts, which notwithstanding eveiy
exertion. were njvtr afterw irdi recovered. It is
mentioned in another letter, that from the uncom
mon atitvity of the Indians in dealing horses. it Is
supposed they intend to meet the army with abody
of cavalry, tbeenfuing summer. —Other depreda
t'Ons. not to mention murders, have been aHo
recentU' committed on '.hi- loutllw -{lern frontiers
of this Slate and adjoining parts of Virginia, par
ticularly at the headofp jnkard-C'eek, and that
neighborhood. Froth this t>:acp wjre carried off,
ft one time, eleven p.ifon~rs, and a young
woman kitied—thiee of the pnfoners were
put 10 death at (ome miles diitance 011' the march
—rthe cattle arid fhep were totally deltioved—
Tv'lany other ravagej have been rommittcd,
which we have not room to enumerate — The
protection the Hate governments affj-d to thele
parts is fa id to be ineffectual, and little better
than an insult to tr.ilery. • •
Some late advices from Spain mention con
fiierable dilhlrbances that prevailed id the'city
of Madrid the latter part of January. A Cor
regidor had given a printer leave to strike off a
few tranllatcd copies of the French Conflitution,
He printed oiF, however, about fix thousand,
which vere gi-cdily bought up. —Oiders were
lent from the court to the printer, which
■were obfliuclrd by t!ie people, who rose in
mobs ; and it is said the count Florida Blanca
narrowly cfcaped the feverefl effeits of their in
dignation.
The trifling observations which have been so
copiously made in the late Enjlifh papeis upon
a circuinflance so very immaterial to the world
as a marriage of one of the rova! family of Eng
land to a ladv of theroval family of Prufha, are
drawing to a period. Comtri' ntties fitvk 1 their
own e.leem, and even human nature itfelf fuf
icrs, when such frivolities, by the mere power
of faflnon take precedence of things which are
rcajly effenrist.
Oil the 1 th of Feb. last, the birth-day of
the Prrfident of the United States was celebra
ted at Surinam by all the American veifels lying
in the harbour of that settlement, except Eleven
Jail Uom Pvhode-liland; the mailers of which
refuted to pay any auen'ion to the day. On
•what principle their rqfufal wasgrounded, our ac
counts do not mention. The,, add, however, that
a rnaik of difaffeflion to the American govern
men*, was set upon them by the governor and
piincipal inhabitants of the place.—On the fame
day, the htrth-day of the Piefident wks celebra
ted at the Virginia Coffee-Houfe, Cornhrll,
London, by a relpeflable number of gentlemen,
when thirteen toads were drank, all exprclfive
of friendship and good will to America, and of
the rights and liberties of mankind in general.
Considerable misunderstandings prevail in
Massachusetts relative to the separation of the
Ptovince of Maine from thatdate, and eretting
it into a separate independent Hate: While
some are pleasing ti emfelvcs with an idea that
the New-England flairs will be greatly bene
fited by such a separation, by having two fena
tors added to (he noithetn feale in Congress
others fufpert that the New State will not only'
eventually fuffei thereby, but that the majority
of fena tors will inevitably he of the southern
llatcs : the truth of which aflertion
depends on the line that is supposed to be drawn
between the northern and southern states.
received from Morocco, Sy
Way of Spain, mention the death of their
f mperor. Two of his sons ha*, e been de
puting for the supremacy in the govern
ment, but have accommodated matters by
ail equal d.vision of it.
We hear from c lln'on county, in the
K.-..e of New- i ork. that two Indians, who
t^ ke , n . a fc reat quantity of furr, which
was itorecl up,m their camp, were persuad
ed away by two white men-upon another
expedition ©y pki fame kind* leaving a third
Ind,an: to guard the fur- during their ab
ience. Returning to their camp bv them
selves ter anabfence of three days they
found r .• Indian murdered and the furrs
earner -,r ; rpon wlvch. pun ning their
-ormer compan.ons. the two white men,
they c -me lip with them, and ffcot one dead
the,c ' j eing every
r. axon .0 suppose that they had been privy
-' r "_ n .' u ' e ' °* t '" e ' ''ha:;, and concerned
in tile Pander of the camp.
Letters fom the territory south of the
V.^ lo, r , nu: "'" ( ' !; , the growing hostility of
OHpo.ition preyale it union? some of the
Creeks and the Chickataogga Indians, a-
Sainit toe frontier fettlenients of tlie Unit
ed States in that quarter. Twenty-two
persons were killed in'the Cumberland set- :
tlement about the beginning of April, and i
two earned off. Fifteen miles from Ro- ;
fcenv'Le a Shawanefe Indian hud killed and 1
fc.-.lped three children and taken the mo- j
tber prisoner.
"The moll recent European Intelligence
may-be comprized in the following summa
ry— From some equivocal conduit of the
■ Emperor with regard to France, every
thing in the Belgic provinces wore a war
like appearance : their army was afTem
bled to the number of more than sixty
: thoufandmen in Douay, and the towns in
its vicinity, ready to co-operate with the
French artny againfi: the Emperor—twenty
thousand imperial troops were arrived in
1 the National Alfembly sad
granted a general pardon to all Fr?nch of
: :icers and soldiers, who having dsfVrted
their colours previous to the firft of June
t "91, Ihould return into France previous to
December gt, 1192. —The mayor and mu
nicipality of Paris had received a letter
from the King of France, tending to quiet
the minds of the people as to any appre
hensions of, his making a second escape
from amongst them, ami exprefling his . in
violable attachment to the welfare and in
terests of the nation—The French navy
was in a milerable situation, being almost
wholly deprived of its officers, who had
quit the service—The King of Sardinia was
making military prep'.rations, it was said,
for the purpose of invading_ France—and
the mobs of "Viirfeillt's had shown the great
elt indignation agaiuft Spanilh politics in
respect to France, having torn flown the
National arms of Spain, and fufpeuded
■ them on the public pillory.
From the drgracle'd slate of roy
alty m Europe, its secret patrons in this
country cannot pofiibly deduce any argu
ments in favour of American Kings and
1 Princes.—Princes in general are at present
, found to be mere fpendthrifts, debauchees,
, horte-iockies, drunkards and bullies—By
: a remarkable difpenfat'on of Providence,
1 the existing race of Kings are generally I
1 ieU'ots, sap-heads, gluttons, or fuakers ; j
1 and for want of energy ill their individual;
character to enforce defpotilm, mult gra- !
dually fuffer their relpectiye natioiisto'
( giide into repubiicanlfm, both in form and,
| substance.
I The ground between Delaware and:
. Schuylkill, has within these few days 'oeen :
examined by several experienced gentle- j
men of this city with a view of determin
ing tr.e most practicable and beneficial j
mode of conftrufting the canal which is to
unite the tsvo rivers. F'rom a result of,
their enquiries and observations, they are j
' of opinion, that the canal should be brought;
from Norriftown, down along the banks of
Schuylkill, as far as the valley between ;
Springfbury and the Hills and thence to
tiie Delaware, through the lowefl and molt'
practicable ground.
The total value of el,-ports from the;
port of Bermuda Hundred and City-Point:
to foreign countries, from January nt, to
March 3ill. 179:, amounts to 92,975 dol-j
' lars 42 cents ; and the net value of every :
fpeciesof merchandize entered in the above ■
district within rhe fame period, amounts to :
13,934 dollars 16 cents.
From the firft of January 1792, to the firft |
of April following, there have been expotied
from Bollon, 94.167 gallons of New-England!
1 mm.
The Madrid gazettexif the 2d of March'
I last, mentions, that the place of Minister of'
. State, before occupied byf'oride de Florida
Blanca, is now ftiied by Conde d'Aranda, j
pro temp.
A correfponcent, who has a'wavs conSt'ered :
the perlons 10 whom the certificate* of our na- |
tiofial d«.bt were ohginally iffucd, as groSslv de- j
| frauded and injured by our government, piopo-1
j fes that each certificate in the new dress given to j
j it in the Secretary's office, fhculd have the fol
lowing devices inscribed upon it, according
|to its denomination. 1. The bloody arm of a
jfolclier. 2. The wooden leg of a loUiier. 3.
| AJoldier'sheartpierced with a bayonet. 4.The|
tioken heart of a widow of a whig of 1-776. 5.1
1 A continental colonel's ■fcidow-with fix c iMren I
, dining on a failed herring and two potatoes. 6. A 1
j continental major begging his breed with his fa- j
nnly on his way to Kentucky. 7. A continen- j
tal captain confined in jail for a debt of 56 fhi I-'
lings. Z. A speculator diiving his carriage \
over a loldier on a pair ofcrutches, in the flreets '
of Philadelphia. A sloop failing towards
Charleston, belonging to Duer Bc. Co. to buy up j
the certificates of the southern i.ates at 2J6 in
the pound. 10. A speculator.galloping ihro'
the ifinote counties of eveiy date and cheating
the farmersout of their certificates. lt.Afhip v
failing towards Great-Britain with four vnlhcTis !
effpecie, being the annual interest of the national !
debt paid to European brokers. la. A Cofl'ee j
house crouded with speculators of mil
lersand merchants] attending the tale of stock.
'3- Acoronet—a f»ar and garter. la. A fcep- ,
tre, a crown, and a throne. 15. A Ring to de- '
note the irredeemability of the public debt, or
that the evils produced by the eel tificates will
have no end, £
t
_ Some Newspaper writers, who indifcrim- t
inately praise tlie measures of government, t
tor folic! reasons, no doubt, treat writers in \
opposition to the sentiments they profefs, n
and all those who venture in any degree to r
find fault, or in any particular wifti a re- 1
form, as enemies of all government, and u
as aiming at the of this.SSu- f
• mifes of this kind, w?re they within the
■ bound* of credibility, might have more ef
■ feci than much argument ; but as they are
■ now brought forward, favor too much of
improbability to obtain belief, and are llim
feyfubititutcs indeed. [Gfcn. Adv.}
i Certain parapraphilts appear to grdtirkl
• their political belief upon the principle, that
■ whatever is, is right,—that a government
i established bv the people, must ever ast for
I the be ! l good of the people. They appear
to think, that such a government is as un-
I variable in its operations as the planets
1 are steady in their course. Such doctrine
' is near a kin to the old do£trine of paflive
obed ence and noo—reiiflance, now liuiver
faily exploded, even in Europe. [Gen. Adv]
A correspondent fiys "It isafaft. that
' Prince William Henry, (now Duke of Cla
rence) about twd years since made the tour
of the United States, in company with two
British peers.- His P.oyal Hightiefs landed
at Cape Ann, from Halifax, and from
I thence palling through the principal towns
> of the United States, proceeded to Georgia;
, returned to New-York, and embarked on
i board a frigate then waiting for him at
■ Sandy Hook. A perfoa is now in this city
i who accompanied the Prince ia his jour
' ner.''
I
useful Animadversions.
AS soon as the Congrefi {hall adjourn we
' have to expect from thafe faithful patrons
I of good government, order, and the funds,
| a pious and lengthy panegyric upon its vir-
L jtuous deeds. This has heretofore been
' the cafe, and surely those beneficent para
j graphifts who have been fa Copious on
II former occasions, will not fuller the merits
|o f the prefont feflion, to pafi unnoticed
jj The puffing of its friends has been found of
j importance to public bodies as well as to
' individuals, ana ought not to be omitted,
especially in cases of emergency.
I Compared with the atchievtnents of their
I predeceflors, it is true, but little has been
!! font. By their labours a fyllem beautiful
i in theory and delightful in practice had
] been reared. Not only the outline of the
edifice was formed, but most of its parts
executed ; the last p'Jlar of the Corinthian
i order only remained to be added. From
: this feflion it was expe£ted the finilhing hand
•I would be given it.
l] But let the candid public take circutri
: (lances into confederation before they de
i cide on their relative merits. The labour
> of their predecefTors was easy. They were
: fanned by a prosperous gale : Planned and
i executed without opposition. But in the
. pfeTent, the cafe was widely different.
. Some unfkilful artists had been taken from
( < the country, of unpolilhed taste, groveling
genius, and whose education had been
. formed upon a local, narrow and fordid
, i fca!e. 1 hefe, (afTociated with tiie form
( er difaifefted, for such there were) be
j :n g pnt to this last part, had like not only
jto have conftrufted ft on entire different
■, principles, but with more than Gothic bar
iiaritv attempted to remodel the whole
l building ; jailing upon, and cutting and
| lucking it in various parts, so as almofl to
Jdeface its form. The faithful labourers
therefore of the present feflion, have flood
on entire different ground and had difficul
ties of a novel kind to encounter. That
they have been able to preserve f rom ruin
what had been already done, must be a
j matter of fu'prize. and entitles them to
• gratitude and applatifo*
'Tis to be presumed tb? next feflion will
| complete the work. These daubers will
in the mean time be taken into training,
and well tutored, otherwise the enterprize
iiiufl be abandoned. To leave the edifice
in an unfinifhed state, whilst the workmen
are contending about the mode, will ex
po.'e it to the weather and endanger the
whole building. Not only the foundation
will gradually decay, but the idle mob ga
j thering round these will proba-
I bly take fidewith thj ignorant new pro;e£t
;ors, and tear it to pieces. Better will it
be to close the breaches in any manner, than
hazard these conferences.
Infaftift.be rendue of the state debts
are not afTunied, and therebv the funding
system enc reafed ti> the utmost poflible ex
tent, out little benefit especially to the au
thors, npon any of its principles, will be
gamed by what has been already done. For
let it be remembered, that part gains have
been laid out in futwe acquirements, and
that ruin must o'erwhelm many if it should
fail.
The time is now come, that prope~ dis
tinctions should be made on important po
litical subjects. The cloud of error must
be dispelled or the consequences will be fa
tal. 7he people of America have got state
governments, and against whose adminif
tratiens they may clamour as much as they
please. They may pnt them up and pull
; them down, make and unmake rulers at
their pleasure, and we shall not interfere '
with them. Is not this a fufficient indul
gence, a fufficient field for licentiousness to
range on P why will they not exercifi equal
liberality toward us of the federal ? why
not allow us in peace to make it what we i
please ' surely they have nothing to do
Vheir r ' V»
; rftl, I S themfelve.i if they think fit
per th, eart!,ofenece,i^ -ei >:
& r afge more o»
doctrine no; < .'" nev ™ new-fangled
If this no fi/HT wrfi require more?
* BS£&SBPSSSS»S
r Oht hfrftir • ' and t0 tre mble at the
1 "gnc ot tnOfem power !
I befween P fh» r l Ve bee " made t0 dttinguifo
» but ho--- h 7 e F mne "X an d its meafnres,
;i. vi(ihU ? f h Sbe P? fnble ' the former j
- IheaH Ivifv -l® i'" ' a »<i Teen and
]iP to flf! ' S VS anc ' °ffi cers . they ex-
Jjiit together or are in effect the fame \a
t ! ;S'rf e or the agem under
■I in its oi'-Vinal att . ac '|P on she government
■ PrODrieff, P r nCip!eS " T ° f!wbt the
propriety of the Jate encreafe of the duties
oftheexcifclaw as a pre
l t»- C " lode ai taxation, is to betrav aii
! o n f7hTa hb(tilit - v a S ;iin(t constitution
■ nfj sta tes. The attempt to draw a
, h°d^ mtl ° n b , etweeß tht ™' fraught
wuh danger, and thole who do it have
' theTri'eudsof 8 ob j e^. in view > against which
■ f ,u • ' rt 'P u hheangovernment should
S^rT s ' ." ris of anarchy
and disorder which gives birth to it: nay
wor<e > tIS the difcomfited spirit of pa
per-money and antifederaliim reviving
, which we had fondly hoped was long since
s trufhed. lis the demon of slander stalk
, ! n S sor I th a £ a " T from his den, to biaft with
his cankered breath the virtuous fame of
i noble men, and iliuftrious patriots— to sap
the i oundation of morality, public faith
1 and even to undermine the government it
s leu.
UP\\ ARDS of fix months being elapfeci
/"ur 1 • publication of this and the
' hiblcri prion having facceened beyond the Edi
tor's mofl fariguine expe&atioiis, he no a- berg
r * cave _^ urt her to solicit the attention of the peo
'u C n C ltec * afeS tc * 3 publication which
' he traits wifl , t all times be fotind truly fepubli
can in its principles and tendency, as well as in
itiu&i.ve and entertaining to every denomination
s of readers.
1 he National Gazette will continue as
1 it has hitherto been, to all kinds of political dil
ctiflion, without partiality to parties or opinions,
provided fucfi difcuflions aie conda&td with
' decency.-
The mofl atjihenfic and important' domestic
and foreign intelligence will be given, so di
■ gefted as to convey grtateft variety of in
* formation in the briefed manner poflible.
1 he Editor will also endeavor, as far as bis
bounds will permit, to gratify the lovers of mere
* literary amulemenf, in eflays, &c. adapted t<*
? that purpose.
! o The !aws , of t»e Unite',; States, Sec retard
Kepoits, and proceedings of Congrcfs, will al
; occupy a confidcrable pait'of .he p.,per
during the leflion, as being supposed particular
- i n ' e in fi to "ery defcriptfon of readers.
lhe National Gazette will be pablifhed as
; heretofore, on Monday and Thmfday mornings.
The puce, I hree Dollars per annum; one half
> j°i, P a,d at lhe "me of fubferibing, and one
dol ar and an half at the expiratibn of every fix
| months afterwards— exclusive of chareesof poll
age ar>d conveyance.
„ PHILIP FRENEAU.
j P"Uadflp/;ia, May (~ Market-Strut, No. 209,
l ** Ihe (übfcribeis to ihe National Gazette
are requeued lo lake notice that the tax on the
Carriage of newspapers by the public post, is tcy"
tnke place on the firft day of June enduing. All
fubfciibers, therefore, to the National Ga'.ette,
who receive them by the mail, will ple a le to
pay the duty in advance, as soon as poflible after
that period.
4*. ERRATUM. In our last, in the firft
pM m " ° f the fifft page ' line '9 for t Udrearf
*** At the Printing-Offics may be had, a
few copies of Abftrafts of Goods, Wares
and Merchandize exported from each state
from tit October 1 790, to the 31ft Septem
ber 1791.
f|t A few copies for sale, at this Office,-
of the Proceedings in the House of
fentatives 011 the Georgia Contested Elec
tion price 2/9.
MIIEOROLOrtICAt OBSERVATIO.VS.
April, 1792.
D. H Bar. Ther. Wind, ll'eatft
Monday,• 30. 7 30. , J5 _
- I 3°- 872 *-N. rJc/oudy.
Tucfday, May 1. 7 30. 1 61 " — '
; SQ- o 73 N N.E. Rain.
Wcdmfaay, 2. 7 30. 2 55 Calm. CLmdy
- -9- 93 so E- Rai„,
Thurjday, 3. 7 29. 6 56 N.E. SS7
I g 9- 6, 54 SE. Rain.
Friday, 4. 7 29. 65 48 N ,E. O^dT
2 '■*?• a b f>9 s.s.E Fair.
Saturday, 5-7 29. 9 57 — Cfad7.
5. a .9'' 9 70 - Fair:
Sunday, 6. 7 30. j6 ~=—
7 3°- 1 66 I — Claud*,been disposed of and provided for by
requisitions ss fully as the powers or
laws of that government permitted : —
Many, indeed I believe moll of the
Rates, had made adequate provision for
them to their refpeftive citizens—and
those who did not were under the fame
obligations to do it that they had been
to do any other part of federal duty in
the course of the revolution ; even these
have been revived again and funded at
three per cent. The indents, and about
three years interest which became due
fin.ee the hi ft of January 1788, making
in all above ten millions, have been
funded—above seven millions of these,
if it was not a debt created by the fund
ing system, received a refurreftion by
it ; this will explain the charge of cre
ating a new debt asserted by one of the
gentlemen, and denied by another ;
here were above seven millions receiv
ed, which ought to have been consider
ed as redeemed, unlcfs perhaps in a few
instances, to such as were not citizens
of any date—and above three millions
funded at three per cent, for the doing
of which there exiftcd no obligation.
If it be answered, that equity required
it, I will alledge that it the Congreis
were to ast on the general claims of
equity which originated in the course of
the revolution, a much greater amount
misft yet be provided for. I never
knew a public creditor who expected
interest upon his interest, or that ex
pelled the indent debt that had been
disposed of, to be received orotherwile
provided for than by a final settlement
between the refpeftive states and the
United States. Why Ihould they ex
pect Congress to make provision where
an actual obligation did not exist, when
in the fame act they were destroying ten
vears interest of one third of the prin
cipal, where the most express obligation
did exist, and where the claim was al
so founded in the strictest equity ? This
increase of the debt, and funding at
three per cent, appears not to have been
calculated for fthe profit, nor at the re
quest of the public creditors ; for what
they gain in the one hand they lose in
the other : neither does it operate as a
gain to the United States. If we may
judge of its object by its effects, we may
observe that by receiving the indents
redeemed by the states, an increase of
revenue becomes necelfary, and the
btCOTlt lite pensioners to Con
gress for the annual amount they are to
receive ; thus the revenue must be the
greater in th« hands of those who con
duct it, and the individual states must
be dependent on the treasury of the
United States for the means of their
support; foreigners may make reprisals
if they are not paid, nor does the sup
port of their government dspend upon
it ; but this is not the cale with de
pendent itates. We know several oi
the states are in this way entitled to a
(rreater annuity than is necelfary foi
the support of their governments, and
the people are in the habit of living
wholly free of state taxes ; while to ac
compltlh this strange state of things
the debt of the union is incrcafed, obnox
ious revenues are rendered necelfary,
ministerial influence, speculation, anc
consequent depravity arc advanced.
With respect to the dangerous ef
fects which the irredeemable principa
and unnecessary increase of funded ca
pital will have upon the genius of oui
government, and the interest of poste
rity, this subject has been investigated
with so much ability by the gentlemer
who were up before me in support oi
the amendment, that I will not now
detain the committee with any thought:
upon it, but will conclude with obferv.
ing that, having proved that the irre
deemable principal which the amend
ment is defignea to correct, is not ar
equivalent for the departure from the
terms of the contract, and that beinj
contrary to the constitution cannot beob
ligatory on any future Congress, but i:
dclufory in its nature, and calculated t<
promote speculation & a transfer of th<
debt to foreigners ; and that the increafs
of funded debt created in the funding
system, was not necefl'ary from the ori
ginal pbligation, nor profitable to the
public creditors, but calculated foi
dangerous speculating and political pur.
pofss. I will fit down with exprefling 2
wifh,that, by adopting the amendment,
we will prevent the worst effects of the
funding system from being further ex
tended.
Frcrn the A erican Daily Adiertifcr.
PLAN for A NOBILITY
JN THE UNITED STATES.
WHEREAS a King and Nobility arc ar~
dentlv dclired by a riw of the pood
»eople of the United States j aud tie said friends
■)( aiiftocrac.v and ranks, .ire daily m .re and n.ore
iifgufte«3 vviih that < lu-fjihion'u republican equali
ty, which to the n okls-minpkp, is the worst
slavery : And whereas the aimers at so happy a
hange in the government of our country, are
ind have been much at a loss touching the ways
ind means of providing a set of men, of fuir.cierit
wealth, merit and fplendur, to form an hereditary
ind titled orderj the following plan, for that pur
jofe, is hr.mbly offered to public confederation,
oy a citizen who has employed his thoughts on
hat all-important fubjeft, and dares Hatter him
felf, thai hia plun, if adopted, will, in providing
as manv nobie lords as may be wanted for this,
it prelent, poor plebeian country, be productive
it many other and great benefits to the lame.
THE PLAN.
LET a lift be made of all the speculators, as
A-ell in as out o.f the government, who have been
>.udent enough to enrich themfefves in the sum
tf 150,(8)00 dollars at the leatf—Jt is then propo
ed»
j. Th3t to each speculator, having not lels
han 150,000 dollars, nt r more than 200 s 000,
:here shall be added (either by free grant from the
reafury, or by some douceur equal
:hereto) as much ai will make up 500.000.
2. To each speculator, having not less than
z.oc,coo, nor more than to br added in
ike way, as much as will make up 450,000.
To each speculator, having not less than
300,000, nor more than 450,000, as much *.$
.vill make up 6c0,c00.
4. To each speculator, having not less than
1.50,000, nor more than 600,c00, as much as will
nake up 800,000.
5. To each speculator having a million and
jpwards, nothing to be added.
The said estates to be entailed in the mail line,
.urfuant to the right or primogeniture j aftd the
ntcreft accruing thereon to be made fare to the
said speculators and their heirs forever, by perpe
ual taxes unalterably appropriated, and quarterly
payable to their use.
The noble speculators of the lowest rank or
;rade, to be Ailed, " the order of the Leech/'
Their title to be Their Fulnefi'es." Their arms,
4 A Leech, clinging to the bowels of an old fol
iier." The motto, 44 Tje blood of the brave,
:he reward of the knave.'*
The noble speculators of the next rank, to be
[Viled, *' The order of modern Justice." The
itle, " Their Rapacities." The arms, 11 A paii
as scales, balancing 2/6 with 205." The motro,
* Cheating no Felony ."
The noble speculators of the next rank, to be
Viled, " The oider of tfye virtuous League." Th*.
itle, " Their Huckfterlhips." The arm?, A
member of Coh—g—s, in the hand of fellowship
with a Broker—in the mouth of the former, a la
oel, * I'll beliow for contracts and morality'—in
mouth of the latter, a label, * And I'll be
uuying up the FINALS." The motto, ** Public
Faith, private Fraud."
The noble speculators of the next rank, to be
;>iled, " The order of Aflumption," or, if thought
nore fuitabie, #< The Order of the GoldenFltece."
The title, " Their Pirate-ships." The arm-.,
•' Three Packet-boatcj (their flag—a Sheep, and
ts keeper, afiifted by a in the act ol
ihcerihg it) under full fail for the modern Co!
.his [Cbarlefton] j and a number of expreftes in
rnj Iptrtd, in diflerent dire&ions." The motto,
" The many made for the few."
The noble speculators of the highest rank, tc
oe filled, " The Or.ier of Scrip." The ti:lc.
•" Their Influences." The arms, " A Janus,
fitting on a pile of certificates, Modcfty under one
foot. Fidelity under the other j one face toward
he Bank, the other toward C—n~— j—s, in one
hand the Federal Constitution blotted and torn, in
the other a copy of the Britilh Statute, incorpo
rating' the Bank of England." A double motto,
•' Public Debts, Private DlclTmgs(and underneath)
Corruption,the true Oil for the Political Machine."
Manyfold and great will be the advantages inci
dental to this, so generous a plan.
ift. As it will Simulate diligence and ingenuity,
by so great a reward to cit'uens who have so exer
cised these virtues as to poflefs thcmfelves ol th:
wealth of the country at the lead poiiible expencc.
2. As it will encourage liberty of confcicnce,
by conferring honors and revenues on the men whe
have nobly dared to fhxke off its yoke.
3. As it will improve mftralit), by recommend
ing a latitude in dealings, which our narrow,
minded forefathers never dieamt of.
4. As ic will encreafe the artificial energy ol
the government, by combining avarice with ambi
tion in the administration thereof j so as tc
ftrcngthen the motives and the means of a power
ful set of men, to refill and keep down the inso
lent republican spirit of the people. For a land
ing order of nobility, thus twitted into the govern
ment, will be more to be relied on, than an)
landing army whatever, of mere Plebeians, as i:
evinced in the cafe of the French revolution,
that detestable subversion of the noble preroga
tives of the few in favor of the vulgarrights of tin
many.
5. As it will faften the better the bleflings o
an irredeemable debt. For as the taxes for th<
debt will keep the people obedient and sober, th<
Nobiilty,mounted on the debt, will perpetuate th<
taxes on the people, and fu perpetuate both theft
bleflings.
This idea of founding a nobility on a funded deli
is perfectly an original invention, and r IC
less ingenious than important* the author hopes
to be rewarded with a special adl of grace, admit
ting him to rank in the " Order of Modern Jus
tice," if no higher. If not so rewarded, hi
hereby gives notice, that he infifls on his right :c
a patent.
If the invention takes with the public, as
it deserve«, he intends to complete the idea bj
funding a on the funded N»b ? I , a.-O :/;a
t l icn ex.eU an advancemen: to the 4 ' Order v
Scrip."
ARCHIMEDES.
P.S. As it may have happened, that the lau
dahle pafhon of getting other peopiei rr.oricy, aril
lj,ei)i'in.! ihe ir own, has lately }> »ii . c,» iw.-uj-t o
worthy adventurers imo extravagancies, dfgradin
them from their rank on the 1 c • -t wealth
whereby they may lose the 'promot ion deftgfcCi
them, and impede rhe whole plan j it 19 therefor
to be ur.dft!ftood, that the lid to be made out a
above, lhal) have reference to the da\ ;t
last ; and all lofTes theieto, to be mad
up directly or indirectly, out of the fund appropri
ated to porchafmg in the public drbt, which wil
alio have the advantage of Icfiening the rcduCtioi
thereof. And it is conceived, that this relief t«
the fufferers will be the more proper, tnafmuch a
a great part of the people to be taxed therefor
were heretofore relieved in their distress by tha
class of their fellow citizens, who generously al
lowed them 2s. and in some inftancos as high a
2/6 in the pound, for their certificates ; and gra
titude equally as joftice, now requites all fuel
people in turn to save their benefactors fr«m tn>
enormous loss of 20 or 25 per cent, on capital
whereon they had gained the moderate profit onl;
of eight hundred or nine hundred per cent. A.
FRENCH NEWS.
[From the Leyden Ga~ctle.\
Paris, Feb. 5.
The Sieur de Sainte Croix, minister of Franc
at the Electorate of Treves, has taken the great
ett care to fee that the orders for dilperfing th
French emigrants, heretofore patronized by th'
Prince-3ilhop of that electorate, ftoukd be faith
fully carried into efFeCt. In his last letter h<
announces that this dispersion wil] be as *ffe&u
al and complete as the nation could require, or
the king has ordered him to demand. He affigrn
the following reasons for this change of sentiment
in some foreign courts, viz. " The prudence an.,
moderation of the court of Vienna—despair of any
effectual afiiftance from Prudia —the wisdom 01
the general government of the low countries—tin
further and more mature reflections of the EleCtor
of Treves. 1 ' The following is a draft of th;
orders of the EleCtor, with regard to the em'grant;
in his dominions—l. All emigrant-military-corps
cf what denomination soever, are ordered tc
depart from this electorate [This order was striCt
ly enforced previous to the departure of the cou
riet j mod of the emigrants having departed, anc
others preparing to follows J All uniforms are striCt -
ly prohibited. [The horse are following th
foot, a body of cavalry going regularly off ever;
day, altho* the roads were in a shocking condi
tion, and covered with banks of snow. Their
principal places of retreat were, the territory ot
NafTui, Hefle, and some of the neighboring prin
cipalities. Not a few have returned into France.]
2. No arms or ammunition to be at the dispo
sal of the emigrants. [Accordingly, when theft
accounts came away, they were not poffefled of 2
finale cannon, and if any were found, they wert
under orders to fell them—their contracts withlht
gun-founderies, magazines, &c> to be held voL*
under the levCseft penalties—even their provision
magazines were to be let up at public laic, lo thai
no'trice of any ftorei of lupplies for them might
remain.]
Vienna, Feb. 2. —The Emperor has ordered
the Vice-Chancellor to write to the Cardinal do
Rohan, to exhort Mm, by every argument of per
fuafiOH, not to 1 u6er the French emigrants to make
any holtilc preparati.»n> i;i Ins te?ritories——»— tc:
forbid his fubjcCtsjoining in any undertaking thai
might give umbrage to Fiance, or provoke ho(tili
ties from that quarter ; but to wait patiently tin
rcfult of the retaliations of her Imperial roajeftj
and the empire respecting rhc grievances of the
princes, who hold pofieflions in Alsace, Lorraine
&t.—that his majesty, alwajs ready to do his du
ty as head of the empire, and proteCt such of hi:
states as may be unjustly attacked, cannot permi
any individual amongst them to interrupt thegocu
understanding that ought always to subsist betweer
the empire of Germany and the kingdom 0
France, by raising troops contrary to the laws o
the empire, &c.
J) AN away on Wednesday night laj} t a Negr,
Man y about twenty-three year j eld j tad on 1
light coloured Jbort coat : took 'With him a pair Cj
leather breeches and a fair of green ftuff do. a bea
ver hat half worn, narrow brim and deep cro*wn
a pair of boots } Jiriped cotton and silk Jioikings--
be is flint made—reads and writes a legible hand--
has, lam informed, procured a paj's and certificate
of his heing a free man. It is probable he wil
endeavor to get onboard some vejjel, either at thi
piece or N civ-York* He has a Jtnall fcarr undo
his chin occasioned by cutting out a wen. I wi'
give Forty Dol.ws reward to any person who wi!
deliver him to rr.e at this place, and pay all reasona
ble expences.
ANDRFJV MOORE.
//c. 1 jS SpruiiStrret*
April 23.
CHESTER TOWN & EALTIMCRE
S T 4 Q E S.
THF. Eaftern-fliore Stages, by way of Chefter
town to Baltimore, start regularly from
fames Thompfon'a, Indian Queen, Fourth-street.
Philadelphia, every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day mornings, precisely at 7 o'clock, and on the
fame mornings, at four o'clock, from Mr.Grant's
in Baltimore. The cultivation of the country]
and goodness of the roads, together with the at
tention that shall be paid by the proprietors, will,
it is hoped, be a fufficient inducement for a pre
ference being given to this route.
JAMES THOMPSON,
ROBERT HODGSON,
N. B. Light Waggons *or hire by Jame:
Thompson, at the Indian Queen..
Muck 30. jaw.
H'ajhingicn. in the Territory oj Columbia.
A PREMIUM
OF 500 dollars, or a medai of that value,
at the option of the party, will be gi'v
:n by the Commissioners of the Federal
buildings to the person who, befo'e the
ifteenth day of July next, Ihall produce to
hem the 1110 ft approved plan, if adopted by
hem, for a Prelident's house to be ercfted
n this city. The site of the buiiding, if
:hc artist will attend to it, will of course
nfiuence the afpe£t and outline of his plan,
md it's destination will point out to him
the number, size, and distribution of the
ipartments. It will be a recommendation
jf any plan, if the central part of it may be
detached and erected for the present, with
:he appearance of a complete- whole, and
be capable of admitting the additional parts,
nfuture, if they (hall be wanting. Diaw
ngs will be expected of the ground p!ats r
elevations of each front, and fediosrs
through the building in such directions as
may be neceflary to explain the internal
[truiture ; and an estimate of the cubic feet
3f brickwork, composing the whole mass of
:he walls. The Commissioners.
March 14.
fVcJliington, in the Territory of Columbia.
A PREMIUM
OF a lot in this City to be designated by
impartial judges and jco dollars ; or a
nodal of that value, at the option of the
>arty, will be given by the Commifiionerj
>f the Federal Buildings, to the person,
.vho, before the fifteenth day of July 1792,
hall produce to them the mod approved
>lan, if adopted by them, for a Capitol to
>e erected in this city, and 250 dollars, or
1 medal for the plan deemed next in merit
0 the one they ihall adopt. The building
:o be of brick, and to contain the following
ipartments, to wit. _ c
\ conference room 7 Sufficics V° 1£ «
1 room for the Re- £ commodate 2.9
prefentatives [ 3<» P ersons g *
-* eacn. v. c
lobby or antichamber to the latter. ( £"u
\ Senate room of :soo square feet
area. 5
antichamber or lobby to the last. J
2 rooms of 600 square feet area, each, &r
:ommittee rooms and clerks offices, to be
>f half the elevation of the former. Draw
ngs will be expefled of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and feftions
:hrough the building in such directions as
nay be neceflary to explain the internal
trutture, and an estimate of the cubic feet
if brickwork composing the whole mass of
:he walk. The Commissioners.
March 14.
This day is pitbl\fhc;i——Pt\cc 6/6.
By MATHEW CAREY.
Ao. j 18, Markcirflreet, r.ecr fourth jirec:,
The Ladies' Library,
Containing
1 • Miss More's EfTays
2. Gregory's Legacy
3. Lady Pennington's advice
4. Marchioness of Lambert's advice
5. Swift's Letter to a new marries Lady
6. Mifi Chapone on Command of temper
7. Morels Fables for the Ladies.
Said CAREY ha* lately publifbed
1. M< Fingal, an epic poem, 2fy 1-2
2. Blair's Sermons, complete in two vols 15f
3. Neclcar's Opinions, if.
4. Sheffield's Otter vat Tons,
5. American 4j%
6. Dauway Bible— neat, 6 dol., elegant 50/2
7. Vade \Jec«m, i/iq 1-2
S. Charles abridged, 1/3
9. Humphrey's pHms, bound 2/6, in b*ue pa*
per 1/10 1-2
10. American Jest Book, in z parts, boon<3 } *
11. Select Poems, 1/3
12. Think Well On'r, 1/10 t-2
13. Beauries of Poetry, B/itifiv and American, (if
14. Bealtie's elements of mora! science, 5/7 J-2
15. The Christian Economy, j/io 1-2.
%* Sets of the American Mufewm.
AS several gentlewien in different parts of the
United States, have been heretofore d'ifapfointed
in their applications for complete Jets if tie Amc
riean Muff urn, the printer informs the public, that
he is engaged in rrftoirtting the deficient numbers of
the work, and has noio and xvill henceforward
have a confiant supply of sets on band ; fuih gen
tlemen, therefore, aspleafe y may be furnifbed ivitb
sets neat'y bound, in ten -volumes, at fixtecn dollars.
This work will be found to contain at lead as
great a variety of political, agricultural, and niif
cellancous efl'ays as any ever publifbed in America.
Of said Carey may be had, ivholefale and retail,
Jiiblesy TeJiarnentSy Spelling-Beets, Printers, Quills,
Ink-Powder, Writing-Paper cf various kinds,
£c.nr.et-Paper, Pockc:- Books, Ink-Stands, MeJJage
2nd playing cards, &c &c. Ctiaiv
-X- The Printing Office cf the National Ga
zette is removed from No. 239, to 209, High (w
Market) Street, above ffth Street.
%* Tht Report of the Secretary cf the
Treasury oil the Excise sale at this
Ofcc-
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND SWAINE,
AT THSIR •FTICE, HO. 2C9> KICK-STRSIT
MAR SIXTH-STRUT)
miLADSLFKIA.