Vol. I.
SUBSTANCE of the DECLARATI
ON Delivered by M. Bulgakow, the Ruf
Jian Am'oajfiidor at Wurfaiv, to thi Po
ftfb Die', on the iSth of May.
«nnHE Ambassador declares that the
X liberty sad independence of the
Republic of Poland have at all times
drawn the attention of the neighbouring
powers ; and that her Majesty, the Em
press of all the Ruflias Itill makes tlus
claim, together with her formal and pofi
live engagements with the republic, and
declares that it has been her endeavour to
preserve inviolably these two precious at
tributes of her political existence. H?r
motives arose from her love of jullice and
order, and from her affe&ion and good
wilhes towards a nation united with her
Empire by identity of origin, language,
•and ail other natural relations. These
confideratious, (fays the Empress) repres
sed the ambition of those ruleis who, not
contented w.th that (hare of authority al
lowed them by the law 3, have aspired at
a .greater fkare of power than by those
kws they bad a right to claim. She
goes on to complain that those Rulers
have had the perfidious audacity to de
clare, as oppressive and humiliating, the
ad by which Russia guarantees the confli
tution of Poland ; at the fame time that
Germany and other the mod powerful
States have eagerly fought such a guaran
tee as a security of their property and in ■
*d<pendence. Sh2 declares that ber inter
ference for reftorinp the former conPiitii
tion is solely to be attributed to her friend
fliip and generosity.—She recites the
modes adopted by the Revolutionilh,
■while Ruflia was engaged in a war againl)
two powerful entmies, to form a Confede
rate Diet i their object being 'to main
tain the free Republican Government, —tc
support the Magiftvates in their fun&ions,
—and to preserve the property ofCitizens. :
" She complains that this Diet orfaft
ion afltimed to themfelve3 all branches ol
power, hav t * prolonged their fittings above
three years and a half (a duration ofwhicl
the annals of Poland do not offer a fingU
instance) and to crown the whole, com
pletely overturned, on the third of May
17.91, the ancient form of governmeni
under which the Republic hzd so long
flourifhed."
The manner in which the revolution ol
Poland was effected is then described ; af
ter which the Empress fays, " that the
Revolutioniils, not fatisGed with having
created internal discords, have acted ir
such a manner abroad, as to be likely tc
bring on an open w*r with Ruflia, the ole
Ally, the bed friend of the republic cnc
of the nation. The utmolt stretch of ge
rerolity in the Empreft was necefiary to
prevent her from resenting sooner the in
sults with which (he has been provoked.
At the time that the Empress's troops
marched through Poland during the wai
■with Turkey, every thing neceflary fOi
the support of those troops was amicably
agreed on, although rancour seemed alrea
dy to re anif eft itfelf. But when the plan
for subverting the republic came to be ex
ecuted, the Ruffian troops were ordered
to be withdrawn from the Poliih territo
ries, and the old magazines were removed
beyond the Poli(h Frontiers, and a duty
was proposed to be paid on eroding the
river Dniester on the materials forming
It jhofe magazines, although they were pro
cured greatly to the advantage of the Po
lish Citizen*.—Her majesty's fubjefts in
Poland were arretted and maliciously im
peaehed for having excited the inhabi
tants to infurieftton. They were tortu
red into confiflion, and sentenced tc
death and executed. The profeffors ol
the Greek religion were perlecuted, and
among others, the Bi(hop of Parejaflaw,
an imperial fubjeft, fell a victim to his per*
fecution—Even in the centre of the me
tropolis, in a Chapel which having the
Ruffian arms over it, Sufficiently proves
Ajijit it wa» a pwileged place, a jaimfter
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhcd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three'Dc/lears per annum 4
WED NE S DAY, August ij, 1792.
was, by Polifli soldiers, feizei at the aJ
tar and carried before an incompetent tri
bunal. Satisfa&ion for this outrage was
demanded and refufed on vague pretences
In (hort, the most folenin treaties between
Russia and Poland have not only been vi
olated, but an extraordinary deputation
was sent to Turkey# then at open war
with Russia, making often to' this power
of an offenfive treaty against RufP.a. 01
this fact the Archives of the minillerial
correspondence of thl Cabinet of War-
I'.iw afford incontestable proof.—A difrtf
peft was (hewn to the person and exalted
rank of the Empress in open Diet,-and the
rudeness encouraged and applaaded by
:he party who had subverted the Gonftitu
tion.— The leaftof these grievances would
uftify the Empress, in the fight of God
*nd men. to take signal vengeance ? yet
tis not with this view that the Empress
jublifhes this Declaration. She is led,
from motives of innate equity, not to con
ound the nation with the party who have
aetrayedher confidence. She is convirt
:ed that the majotity had no fharc in the
nfults offered to her mnjeily. Shu is,
herefore, willing to facrifice her jult re
entment, in hope that all those grievances
tvill be remedied by means of a New Dl
si.—The Empress cannot, however, bt
ieaf to the claims of a great number oi
Polandeis who have united into a lawfm
Confederation against the mischievous ef
e&s of the illegal Confederation at War
"aw. They have claimed the support oi
he Empress v/ho has readily promised it,
is her desire to ftri&ly fulfil the obligati.
>ns of her treaties.
"In order to fulfil her promise, the em
press has ordered part of her troops to en
ter the territories of Poland. They are tt
iCI as friends, and to cooperate in the rejlo
■ation of the rights and privileges of the re
')üblk. All those who shall receive them
is such (hall, beside a perfedit oblivion oi
he part, be protested in their persons, and
jroperty. Those who have scruple!
:oncerning the oath which they have ta
;en, are to consider that they were let
nto it by ertor. The removal of thii
icw oath is the only means of clearing
hemfelves of perjury. Should any peo
>le obttinately persevere to oppose the be
levolent intentions of the Empress,
nay thank themfelv»s if they be treatec
is they deserve, as it is in their power tc
ibjure their errors. The Polifli natior
ire, finally, invited to place unlimitec
:onfidence in the generosity and difinte
•eftednefs of the Empress who willies foi
lothing so much as that they mighi
eflrore ihe true and solid basis of its rea
welfare.
Given at Warsaw, May 18, 1792.
(Signed) D. Von. Bolgakow.'
LONDON, June 9.
AT length war, long threatened ha:
jroken out between the French and the
A.i){lrians. In one of our political fpecu
ations, near two months ago, we gavt
!t as our opinion, that the Germans would
lot crofa the Rhine, but prepare to afl
jn the defenfive, forefeeing that the viva
:>ty and indeed intemperate passion of the
French, would hurry them onto the com
mencement of hoflilities, by an irruptior
into the low countries, which would tenc
to bring a general odium on that nation
and to give an air of justice and populari.
ty to the war on the part of Auflria, ir
the fight of all Europe, at lead all, or al
most all the courts of Europe. The e
vent has verified our predi&ion. But wt
must confefs we did not forefee that th(
firft military effort of French freedom
would be attended not only with difaftei
but with disgrace. It it not the repulse
from Mons and Tournay that the patrioti
of France, and other countries too, hav<
to deplore, so much as certain circum
(lances that preceded, and others thai
fallowed it. The attack, oif rattier the
attempt, ort thofc cities was made in the
time of a truce, proposed by the French
commanders, it is said, in order to lull the
Auftriatis into security. The murder of
Dillon and his second in' command* with
the head engineer and some Auftrisn de
serters declare, in horrid accents, thfl to
tal want of discipline in the French ar
mies, and the danger every general officer
■ncars who m hardy enough to command
th'Tii, What the issue of all this will be,
wc must lea te, as usual in all complicated
cases, to time. At present, nothing can
?s.ceed the plain found sense, 2s well as
J. fciplined vigour, that appears in the
whole condudl of the Atillrians, both ci
vil and military : nor the blind and preci
pitate fury that ailuates the French mob;
tin we do not know a more pre/per term
for the atting part of that great nation,
ever iince it fell into the hands of the
Jacobines, tliofe ardent philosophers,
transferring to their neighbours the im
pressions that prevailed, and ahnoit raged
in t'leir own breaft3, imagined that the
chief towns in the Aultrian Netherlands
(vottld open their gates, and received them
with open arms. They would more than
divide the inhabitants, they hoped, with
an arbitrary though hereditary monarch.
In the firft place, they did not, when
they formed this opinion, make a just
estimate either' of the German or Belgic
character, neither of which is so ardent in
sentiment, or for quick in resolution as a
Frenchman ; nor did they consider that
the great party that still governs the Au
lliian Netherlands, is that of the aristo
cracy and the clergy,*
But if the generality of tJie people of
the low countries had been disposed to
(tin the French, they dare not to stow
their sentiments until the French fliould
ie in a situation, by the pofleflion of cer
tain places, to afford them protection.—
Although it is readily owned that there
never appeared in any age or country,
greater humanity or honour than what
liftinguifli, or, (hall we fay diftinguiffied,
French gentlemen and noblemen, yet for
those noble sentiments they are indebted
more to education, and thar education ari
ling in a great mcafure out of a feudal go
vernment, than to any kindly tempera
ture and milky foftnefs of natural disposi
tion. A Frenchman is by nature a pert,
proud, and fiery animal. That this is so
the democratical writers ,of France ac
knowledged, and boast of it. He has a
natural strut and air of defiance in his
walk—he is quite at his ease wherever he
be—he looks at you in the face with con
fident assurance—he thinks it below him,
if he be in any decent circumstances at all,
to attendhis shop, or any details of busi
ness. C'e/l une chife indigne, fays he, and de
volves it on the woman. When his angry
paflions are aroused. he knows no bounds:
but, like a wild bead, or savage African,
feels a propeniity even to eat the fle(h and
drink the blood of his enemy, or the vic
tim of his fury. The atrocities com
ir.itted on the mangled corpse of General
Dillon will not surprise any one who is
verfant in French hiflory. In the reign
of .Lewis XIII. the populace o * Paris fell
upon the Marefchal and Marchioness D'
Ancre, Italians by birth, and favourites of
the Queen Regent, Mary de Medicis {
murdered them, tore out their hearts and
livers, broiled them, and actually devour
ed them. The French are a people of
lively and impetuous paflions. It is a
problem not yet determined whether
the French are fufcep'ible of a republican
form of government ?—Perhaps they are
not to be restrained within the bounds of
moderation without the Heady and tight
hand of Monarchy —a well reguLted and
limited monarchy is the bell blessing they
could enjoy under heaven.
It is generally believed, that the king of
Hungary in the present crufadc in the
Numb. 83.
caufeof kingj, will be joined irtif only by*
the king of PVuflia, whofc troops are al
ready in motion for that purpose, but al
io by the king of Sardinia; if not, final
ly, by the king of Spain. What part
the Ertiprefs of Ruflla may take rn thtf
crusade since the death &£ the king ot
Sweden. We pretend not to conjedtarej
for it is now fa id that the views and coun
cils of the Regent Duke of S&derniam'a
ire wholly pacific, and that he has declared
In? wish to lire in peace v.th all his neigh
bours, and to preserve tranquility, an«l
jive fatisfaflion at home by the eiercifif
?f a -svife (Tconomy and erery political vir
:ue. The heroism with which the Swe-
Jifh Conlpiratois avow their dcfigns and
fultam their fate, excite;; a lively regret
:hat their virtue hr.d not been exerted in as
ittter cause.
Thtf rejection of tfie faofion irf the
HouL of commons for a reform in th<
scotch burghs, that is a restoration fa
.heir original constitution has at last, rotf
cd a very general discontent irt the North
ern parts of this iflarrd/ and put Sawn*
nto a great paflion. The fub-minifttf
arc Scotlaad has been burnt in effigy at
Aberdeen and Dundee, and other greats
owns : and the Burgh Reformers of the
Morth dill fay, that they maun [mufti
md fall [ihall] hat redrtfi. The Lout
idvocate for Scotland has given noticd
hat he is to bring in a bill for regulating
he expenditure of the money which the
iriftocratical juntos of felf-elefled magi-
Irates levy on vhe people. It is a Common
•hing for all governments, when once ths
pints and passions of any community ara
:xcited, to attempt a compromise and put
:hem off with a little, This might be
wife policy before their passions be up*
wt not after. The persevering Scots will
lavejuftice. It mult be owned, that it
s very hard that a few families should lay
:heir heads together, afTefc a town in a«j
innualfum, and convert it into a kind of
:ftite to them and theirs forever.
it has been wifely determined, in the
ioufeof Peers to weigh the reports of cruel
lies praftifed oo (laves, & the general fitua
:ion of the AfJcan cultivators of out 1
Weft India illands, in the scales of evi-*
ience, and that evidence, not taken pre
cipitately or privately, in committee above
stain but at the bar of the House and in
tlie face of the world. There is not a.
ioubt but those reports will, on the whole
be found to be grofj and calumnious ex
aggerations.
It is with founder judgment, as well a$
philanthropy, that Lord Rawdon, who,
jniting the high honour of pad, with th«
"cience of modern times, may be called a
loble chevalierj without his follies, appears
before the House of Lords, when Mr.
Grey finds it too late to carry his point; in
:he House of commons, as the advocate
For some immediate relief to unfortunate,
sut honest insolvent debtors.
Every day brings to light some difcov
:ry that does honor to the genius of our
sountrymen, and forms a presage of the;
:ncreafed prosperity and glory of England •
The improvement in the steam engine,
and its application to new obje&s t The
wonderful art of multiplying ptihires ir»
oil colours, so as not to be diftinguilhable
from the originals but by microscopical at
tention J the discovery of so many dif
ferent kinds and qualities of arts:—All
these, and many other circumflances,
m*rk the present aB an asra of rapid ad
vancement in science and practical know
ledge. An invention,of equal importance
to any of these, attracts attention at the
present moment: and it peculiarly be
comes the conductor of a Printing Pref*
to mention it :—A gentleman of Kent
has found out a chemical process, which
renders paper made of any rags, as white
as that made of the fineft kind j which,
it is hoped, will considerably reduce the
price of paper.For the Nation ,l Gazette.
Mr.. Frenkau,
IJEING a reader of the G.ize/tc of the
_} United. States', which I borrow of a
neighbour, I find much h:is been laid
therein refpe&ing a (alary of two hundred
and fifty dollais a year you receive for
translating for the department of State.
This clerkship is there deemed by a-writer
that calls himfelf s.n American, to be in
compatible with your llation as con ucloi
of a newipaper. Of this incompatibility let
the proper authority determine. It may
be well enough, however, and ccrtair.ly
not unfair, to retort on this occasion.
I am ii,formed that ttie Printer of the Ga
zette of the United States, the immaculatt
Mr. John Fenno, is printer to the Senate
of the United States, the emoluments ol
which- office are very considerable, as can
be made appear from a calculation on the
films annually paid for his services as priu
ter. lam further informed that the fame
Mr. John Fenno enjoys exclusively the
printing forthe treasury department, where
it seems he has rendered himfelf a particulai
favourite —He has also of late, it is said
made his approaches to another public of
iicciu Chefnut-Street, and is in a fair way
of being soon, if not already, in fullpoflei
fion of the bulinefs thereunto appertaining
From all which the natural inference is.
tjiat two thou/and or twenty five hundred
dollars a year, cannot otherwise than have
some fort of influence oil the Editor of the
Gazette of the United States, efyecial
ly when his avaricious principles are
brought into view. They who are (kit
ful at iracing cauft and effeel, will be at nc
loss in this matter. By comparing circum
fiances and nicely bidancing the quic,
pro quo, wonders will be brought to light
that no man would havedreamt of. I infill 01:
it, my reasoning is fair : if two hundred
and lifly dollars a year mitjl necefl'arily be
influential on one hand, ten times thai
sum mult undoubtedly have a tenfold in
fluence on the other. The principles ol
Mr. John Fenno, and his fetters-on, are
pretty well known—but, for the benefit o
the United States at large, they will be
better known in a short time by a pamphlet
of extracts from his former files. G
Ft,it the National Gazitte.
METEORS, in their nature and ori
gin, have been but little attended to, o
underllood by the generality of mankind
Altho' they have not been considered a:
the precursors of important events, ye'
those who are unacquainted with the revo
lutions in the natural world, fliould be in
formed that their effedls are indubitably
dangerous to the human confiitution.
It is a fa£t 110 less certain, than worth)
of rcmai k, that in the month of
there are moie meteors to be observed ii
the atmosphere, than at any other perioe
of the year, and that they arc to be seer
circulating more over extensive marfhci
and low grounds, than over higher anc
dryer situations : This is a fa£t tqnall)
illullrative of the vitiated Hate of the at
mofphere, and that then mult certainly be
a great quantity of inflammable air circula
ting in the atmosphere, generated in con
(cquence of the valt fermentation of vege
table matter, and the llagnant waters be
ing operated on by the-heat of the Sun
This air from its remarkable levity ascends
and when the eledt'ric spark comes in con
tadl with a volume of this air, it produces
the appearance of what is erroneoufly|call.
Ed (hooting flars—The projedtile appear
ance of thel'e accenfions,is longer or fhortci
in proportion to the concentrated quan-
the inflammable air., Hence we may
infer from the appearance of these pheno
rnena, that the equilibrium of the atmos
phere is greatly deltroyed in consequence
of the accumulation of the caloric princi
ple or matter of fire from the Sun, the ex
tensive fermentations that are carried on in
the mo'Jhts and low grounds, and the in
flammable component part of theJlagnarii
water exhaled in the atmosphere.
A knowledge of these appearances led
me to apprehend the approach of the epi
clcmici of the season, therefore they may
serve as forebodings of a great phyfieal
event, which may be in a great mealure
avoided.
Let me recommend to all, particularly
those whose stamina are delicate.fuch'as de
bilitated women and children, to avoid
cautiously the meridian fun, and the even
ing air, during the dog days.
Ly S. F< C. « Phiknthopijl.
Hints for eflM.\Jh\n* the Theory of the
T i U' K S :
bTranflated troni the works of a French
-Uit.nor, (ilow living) recently publithed
at l\rr;s.J
Tllr. authority of great names is but too
often filbfervient to the preparation of er
ror. 1 mis it has been that upon the credit
ot Maupertuis and Condamine, all Europe
has been taught to believe, and does gene
rally believe to this day, that the globe of
the earth is flattened at the poles ; that is
to fay, that the polar axis is considerably
(horter than the equatorial diameter. On
the contrary,; demonllration may be bro'i
to prove, that the polar axis is conliderably
longelt, or, in other words, that the globe
of tiie earth is, what Caflini formerly alfert
ed it to be, a prolate spheroid. The de
monstration that has been given by the
learned is ltridtly geometrical, and I will
venture to fay, unanfvverable ; and were
Newton himlelf now alive, I have 110 doubt
but he would abjure his error 011 this head,
although he was the iirlt that broached it.
The lunar theory of the tides, with which
the world lias hitherto been content to be
fatisfied, has nevertheleft been involved in
inexplicable difficulties. For my own part
I am fully of opinion that the ebb and How
of [he tea, the origin of which marry wri
cer.s have left among tlie secrets of nature,
are owing entirely to the alternate melting
of the ice at the poles, which in their re-
I'pective winter feafous ast surrounded
with an ocean of ice, upwards of three
thoufaiid leagues in circumference, but in
their fununer are reduced to a much lef;
extent.
It ha , been objected to this new theory
that " it denies the supposed aftio'n of the
1110011 upon the fact? of the ocean, which
agrees so well with the various phenomens
of the tides." But they who conlider the
arguments advanced,with proper attention
will fee, in a work I have written on the
fubjeft. that I do not by any means abfo
(utely deny the lunar influence upon the
ocean ; but iuftead of making the moor
act with moll power on the seas abont the
equator, by an imaginary attraction, which
produces not the Last effect (as there are
110 tides, or at lealt hardly any perceivable
ones within the tropics) I restrain her in
fluence to the frozen seas at the poles,
where the melting of the ice is partly oc
casioned by the rays of the full relieved
with conliderable heat from her furface, s
ia£t well known to the ancients,* and which
has been denionltrated by the moderns from
the limple experiment of a glass of water,
lielides, it is not true that there is a perfefl
agreement with the phr»fes of the moon anc
die flow of the tides in all parts of the world
The ebb and flow upon our own coalb
(1' ranee) answers rather to the mean, thai
the real and motion of the moon. Ii
other places tlie waters of the great oceat
obey other laws, which Newton himfel
was aware of when he said " Undoubtedly
there exilts in nature some other partia
caute of the regular return of the tides
which acts conjointly with that we have af
ligned, but which is still unknown." Thef<
general etfeftg, then, which would not agre<
with Newton's theory but in part, art
clearly accounted lor from the direit influ
ence ol the fun, and the indirect influence oi
the moon in reflecting her rays upon, ant
melting the cone of ice at the poles alter
nately, as the fun is in the winter 01
fuminer fignr. The liquefa&ion of the
ice perfectly accounts also for the regu
lar return of the. tides,their delay for fevera
every day, and other phenomena
wholly inexplicable upon any other plan.
lultead of this theory being confuted, ii
has been only contradicted on the authority ol
Newton, with whom, 011 this fubjeft, I dif
fer in opinion. As to Newton, I venerate
him for his genius and virtues, but truth
lias a (till greater claim to my regard. Se
veral philosophers of reputation have been
deceived by Newton's authority, and he
himfelf was deceived in many, particulars
by a too rigid attachment to his own system.
Newton taught that the centrifugal force,
which he applied to the motion of the pla
nets, bad been the principal cause of flat
tening the globe ot tlie earth at the poles,by
i£ting molt powerfully at the equator.
Norwood, an Englifli mathematician, in
mealuring upon a meridian between Lon
don and York, found a degree 011 the earth
more by eight fathoms, than Caflini had al
lowed it ill f' ranee. Newton (fays Voltaire)
attributed the small excess of eight fathoms
in a degree, to the figure of the earth, which
lie believed to be a spheroid, flattened at
the poles : and he thought that Norwood in
nieafuring 011 a meridian to the northward
of France, mutt of conllquence have found
Ins decrees greater than those of Caflini,
iince he supposed the curve ol the ground,
as measured by him, to be longer." Now,
the degrees being greater, and the curve of
theearth being longer towards the pole than
* It u well kr.oum that the rays of the Moon,
specially towards the full, wtil render fijh and
other animal fulflances putrid in a few minutes.
Likewise, takctwo basons or pans with a small quan
tity of water m each, jufl enough to (ovtr thefur
face, andfa them cut in a bright morn light night,
one in thefhade, the other exbifrd to the rays of the
moon, and the latter will l/ciyfar th'foenrfitvapo
ritcd.
in lower latitudes, Newton ought in truth
to have concluded from thence that the
earth was lengthened at the poles ; yvhere
;is, oil the contrary, he drew the inference,
that the earth wa> flattened like an grange,
or„ in other words, was an oblate spheroid.
Newton seems to have been so intent up
on developing his fyltem of the heavens,
that in thi vinitance he entirely overlooked
a geometrical absurdity. He adopted with
out examination an experiment, which he
believed favorable to opinions he had pre
vioully entertained, notwithstanding it im
plied an absolute contradiction in the nature
of tilings. Our more modern aftrojiomer;
have again been seduced in their turn by the
reputation of Newt6n, and by a weaknefl
inseparable from the human mind, the en
deavoring to explain all the operations ol
nature by one liniple law. Even liouguer.
one of their fellow lobourers.fays politive
ly, that "upon the discovery of the earth
being flattened at the poles, rests the whole
fabric of natural philol'ophy.
Full of this mittakeh idea, a company oi
French philosophers undertook between
them, a journey to the equatorial and polar
parts of our globe, to eltablilh by phylical
proofs, this opinion of Newton ; yet fu
dazzled were they by the splendor of hi?
fame, that they winked their eyes againfl
truth itfelf, which far from the prejudices
of Europe,came to meet them in the deserts
and put herfelf under their protection. li
Newton then, and all his followers havefal
len into so palpable a miltake in this in
(tance, let us be suspicious of all their other
experiments, particularly that"of the (ink
ing of the barometer in high northern lati
tudes, and their other geographical observa
tions which seem to contradict the prolon
gation of the polar axis of (heearth. In out
prefeut research, let us let aside all human
authority, and apply to nature only, as Des
cartes did, who by only doubting the .truth
of it, overthrew the philol'ophy of his age,
a philosophy which had so long inveloped
the real laws of nature in darknef:., and had
so prejudiced the world in favor of Aristo
tle, that his ailertions were conlidered by
all the univerlities as the decrees of Truth
itfelf.
As to my own idea of the prolongation of
The earth at the poles, it is deduced from
the experiments of Kepler, Childrey, Ty
tho-Brahi, Caffini, aud the observations of
everal modern French philosophers of re
jute. The prodigious extent of the frozen
jceans that surround the poles, I have
proved in the couiTe of the works I have
jublilhed, from the voyages of Dennis,
Beerings, Cook, and other celebrated na
vigators of the northern and southern
jceans.
The reader will also find that the opinion
of the deviation of the fun from the eclip
tic, in very ancient times, is supported from
Egyptian tradition, Chiiiefe annals, and
even from the Grecian liiftory.
The total thaw of the polar ice, and the
universal deluge which was only a confe
rence thereof, I have found clearly men
tioned in the books of Moles and Job, ii:
the holy scriptures,
Thefolar heat reflected from thefiirfuce
of the moon, is a discovery made so long
ago as in the time of Pliny, and confirmed
very lately by experiments made at Rome
and Paris.
That there are general currents whicl:
flow fix months alternately, in the mail
oceans, from botli poles towards the equa
tor, I have proved from the voyages ol
Columbus, Beerings, Martens, F.llis, Lin
fchoten, Abel Ta(man,Dampier, Pennant
Rennefort, etc. —Fnm all these writers 1
have made a collection of scattered obser
vations, tending to prove that there is a ge
neral agreement in the movements of lh<
great ocean, the principal cauj'c of which i
the heat of the fun—the mrans, ire thepolai
ice ; and therjfecis, the half-yearly and al
ternate currents of the (everal oceans, to
gether with the tides which we (ee riling
twice every twenty-four hours upon tin
lliores of the northern Atlantic.
Some haveaflerted, that in proportion as
you advance to the poles, the lea. becomes
clear of ice, and the navigation free ami
open. Such ailertions as thele, if generally
believed, would envelope philosophy in dark
ness. The contrary has been experienced
By all credible navigators, so that 110 faith it
to be reposed therein ; if it were true, un
doubtedly my fyltem would fall to the
ground, but as it is evidently fall'e, we fliall
lay nothing further on what is contrary to
realonas well as experience.
No. I.
To the People of the United States,
A I TEND to your real prosperity, now
or never, and be not indifferent to the rnea
furesof your government, otherwise the
day will quickly advance when you will
no longer be permitted to hold any (hare
in its adminiltration. Already you have
been told that " you should not trull to
your own judgment in the choice of repre
sentatives." There are, I well know, a
number who would jhdge Joy ycu. Submit
to this : let this become a precedent, and
you will soon after find yohrfelves reduced
belpw the rank of civilized beings. The
very channels of information will be denied
you, and the wretched Jituation of the
much-injured Jdtii uatio* will be realized
11l America, if the power class of men ar<»
once redticed to the fame state of igno
rance.lt was the malicious policy of the Bri
tilli government to keep the Irish in a state
ot ignorance ; they began by taxing news
papers, and afterwards increased the duty
on thole molt ufeful publications to
fucli an extent, that now it is not in the
power of a poor man to pnrchafe
them. Thus has the bell channel of
knowledge been choaked up by a wicked
adminiltration ; thus have the people been
kept in a Hate of barbarous ignorance, in
order to make them the more abject (laves
of despotic measures ; thus have they been
led blindfolded for centuries', and the mo
ment that an attempt is made to inform
or inftruft them in their rights, so soon as
Paine's pamphlet appears, to convince the
people that they are men and not brutes—
up ltarts the ministry, the kings, and the
hereditary nobles of the earth—for what ?
to prevent the reft us their fellow creatures
from leeing, hearing, tatting, finelling,
or touching the blefings of freedom and equal
Liberty, / And has not the fame game been
played already in America ?—Yes, fellow
citizens of the United States, a similar game
has commenceu between you and some of
those Whom you have supposed the guar
dians of your rights. Speculation, intrigue,
felf.interest, and an inordinate delire of"
accumulating immoderate fortunes by a
momentary and usurious process, soon en
tered into their hearts— they forgot .you,
they (lighted the complaints of their 1 own
constituents, aad, f irt a manner, disposed ot"
you tor the mammon of hnrighteoufners.
During the lirlt, and great part of the l'e
cond I'ellion ot i 789 and 1790, the prelis was
iraiiijnelled by a certain description of men
atNeu-York,who whenany writer dared to
publiih a line agaiuft tliefe characters of ava
rice, was inllantly branded with the appel
lation ot' " Enemy to the confutation."
My fellow citizens of the United State',
theconltitUtion isagood one—but thecoii-
Ikitution and the adminiltration of it are
tliiterenl tilings. You all know that courts
jf julticf ar e, or ought to be governed by
'aw and equity ; buc who is there amonglt
rou, Who has not, in many inftauces, fe'en
Jotli equity and law reversed in a court of
jultice t So it is with the constitution of the
United States; it may be,and I will venture 10
lfl'ert, has been reversed by the administra
tion ot the very firlt Congiefs that met un
der its auspices to legislate for the general
welfare. The inftauces 1 will mention in
ome future ninuber, but my present ad
tlrei's ftiall be confined to the attempts lately
made to ltiiie the channels of information.
It has been clearly proved that the post-
Dffice was not sacred in the years 1787 and
1788. It was as well ascertained that moll
of the presses in New-Yojk were under an
undue influence in 1789 and 1790, andfince
the arrival of Congress in Philadelphia,
when money and moneyed influence could
110 longer interrupt the bold (tream of pe
riodical information, the interested charac
ters aforementioned have adopted a favor
ite measure aud mode of attack in facing
mi mitring charatler. Personal abuse of all
hole worthy men who have been firm
snough to fleer clear of base intrigue or
ervile approbation of illegal unconstitu
tional measures, is now rel'orted to ; and
we find the true friends of the people set
up as buts tor the envenomed pens of an
alp.ring crew, who having seized on the
public vefl'el, would plunder her of the
cargo and leave only a hull for the owners.
It is therefore high time to warn the people
ot their danger, and tocaution them to be
ware or.re-electing men who were in part
nerihip wjth brokers in New-York whilst
the funding and aflumption systems were
yet depending in Congress, and who after
having dispatched pilot-boats and exprefles
to.the uninformed polleffors of public se
curities, vvith agents to purchase them up
lor "Jong, were at the fame time pleading
on the floor o. Congress in favour of laws
that should enrich themselves upon the
fruits of this surreptitious harvest, leav
ng only a ftnbble to their constituents for
111 their palt labour, for all their former
xeafuro, and for the blood of an hundred
houfand freemen facrificed in the caule of
iberty.
lint you are " enemies to the constitu
tion" (fays a certain gazette) if you fpealc
tine word of these measures and the mo
ment that any enquiry into the condu't df
adnnn.Oration takes place, the enquirer is
lute to he branded with every odious epi
thet, in that gazette. But are such men,
these enemies of free enquiry,friends of the
people;—are the authors and propagators
of calumny friends of the people ?—Mark
'.veil, my countrymen, it is by arts like
Chat you will be always allailed by men,
who pofleffing no other talents than fmejfe.
are aiming at the highest grades of office,
thole houo; able Rations, which ought never
to bi: filled by any foils or supporters of the
I peculat ing betrayers of your confidence.
With rctpecX to the Secretary of State, al
though 1 itm personally unknown to him,
and pfrfeftly lure that I (hall never ask or
receive any favour from him, yet I think
it 110 11101 e than common juftice'to observe,
:n tii's piiice, that his general character, and '
molt pi obablv his real one, is the very re
verse of those ambitious persons who have
undertaken to vilify him. It is £rue accor
ding to the. Information I have, he is not
poflelled yi tu.it reliefs ambtiiott which tilt"brokers To much admire, as subservient to
their favourite purposes. He spends hi
leisure hours in philosophic and uie/ul fill
dy, instead of writing scurrilous essays to
the tradu&ion of public and private cha
rafler. He is not aiming at any superior
port to that which he now fills with so much
credit to himfelf, and the American repub
lic at large.
These hints I have thrown out for the
good of my fellow citizens : and if the
people will enquire and judge for them
selves, they will find truth to be my object.
Since the investigation of character ha been
begun for ele&ioneering purposes, 1 may
pollibly in a future number, take the fame
liberty as others have done and exhibit to
the public view in their true colours, lome
who think themselves very snug.at the pre
f-'iit instant, but are well known in all their
difgui es to hundreds of citizens of the
United States, and among others to-
An Independent Federal Elcflor.
ON LOTTERIES.
THE over-weening conceit which the
greater part of men have of their own abi
lities, is an ancient evil remarked by the
philosophers and moralists of all ages. Their
absurd prefumntion in their good fortune,
has been less taken notice of. It is, how
ever, if pollible, Hill more universal. There
is no man living who, when in tolerable
health and spirits, has nut some lhare of it.
The chance of gain is by every man more
or less over valued, and the chance of los
is by molt men under-valued, and by scarce
any man, who is in tolerable health and
spirits, valued more than it is worth. That
the chance of gain is naturally over-valu
ed, we may learn from the universal suc
cess of lotteries. The world neither ever
favv, nor ever will fee, aperfeftly fair lot
tery ; or one in which the whole gain com
pensated the whole loss ; because the un
dertaker could make nothing by it. In the
ftate-iotteries the tickets are really not
worth the price which is paid by the ori
ginal fubferibers, and yet commonly fell ir
the market for twenty, thirty, and some
times forty per cent advance. The vain
hope of gaining some of the great prize;
is the sole cause of this demand. The fo
fcereft people scarce look upon it as a folly
to pay a small sum for the chance of gain
ing ten or twenty thousand pounds ; though
they know that even that small sum is per
haps twenty or thirty per cent more than
tha.chance is worth. In alottery in which
no prize exceeded twenty pounds, though
in other refperts it approached much near
erto a perfectly fair one than the common
state-lotteries, there would not be the fame
demand for tickets. In order to have a
better chance for some of the great prizes,
some people purchase several tickets, and
others,fmalllhares in a 11:11 greater number.
There is not, however, a more certaii;
proportion in mathematics, than that the
more tickets you adventure upon, the more
likely you are to be a lol'er. Adventure
upon all the tickets in the lottery, and you
l'jfe for certain ;and the greater the number
of your tickets the nearer you approach
to this certainty.
(Smith's Wealth of Nations.]
To the Freemen of Pennsylvania.
Fellow Citizens,
IT is tile peculiar happiness of a free coun
try that every citizen is at liberty to speak&
to pubtifh his sentiments on government.
As a citizen of the state of Pennsylvania,
whose inteceft and welfare are dear me. fne
having given me birth and support, I think
I may without apology hazard a few opi
nions. I lrave beheld, and not withont
concern, the diffractions in this Hate, which
have made man a foe to man, and a citizen
the tyrant of his fellow, occasioned by a dift'e
■leucein political lentiment; asifit were un
natural to tna'.iro viewthe fame thingditfer
ently from his neighbour, or to reason
upon, the fame fubjett differently, according
to the turn of his mind, and the manner in
which evidence ltrikes him. Unlettered
by party, and unprejudiced by prevailing as
falhionable doctrines, I will publilh mj
sentiments, careless of the opinions which
may be palled upon themotives, as I ftarx
acquitted with myfelf. The queftior
which engages and perhaps agitates yout
minds at prefeut is, whether conferees are
or are not proper ; and I will add,whethe;
committees of correspondence are or are
not improper ? Men often differ about a
name, and it appears to me that ,the differ
ence between a committee cifcorrefpon
deuce and a confererence. is a diiKrence
about the symbol without any dil'agree
. ment in the thing itfelf. II it is improper
to delegate your authority to a conference
is it not equally absurd to delegate it to a
committee of correspondence ? Is there
not a transfer of the right of judging foi
yourselves in both cases ? Either you mull
or must not be influenced by a committee
of correfpondence —if you are influencec
by them you surrender your right of judg-
you are not, their exigence is a nul
lity, and they are the lhadows of a (hade,
It is to no purpose to fay that the commit
tee will publilh the information they re
ceive end leave you to ast upon it ; for the
information will flow through a channel ol
their own creating, and may be different
from that, which you might receive your
selves, Is the committee without party
views, (favoritifa), or felf-intereft ? If it is
not, what will be the refiilt of your infor
mation ? If it is, as perfection is not the lot
of humanity, I ihall fuppole it more fit for
celeUial correspondence, than for tfcrreftrial
concerns. I mean no personality— human
nature may differ n complexion and hgurc,
but its eli'tnce is the faille. As I have pro
scribed both modes of obtaining informa
tion, a they are prettily called, it will be
expe.ed that I ihorild point out one wort
elig.ble. 'I his may be done without diffi
culty. Wc have a fre,e press, an<' l h' s i:
the best, faireft, and n?oit independent
mode of giving and receiving initruit.ou.
Conformable to my plan, I ha v £ framed £
ticket which corresponds with my' Withes —
ic here follows atfull length, arid tho"fe whe
disapprove of it will publiih a better :
William Findley,
Frederick A. Muhlenberg,
Thomas Fitzfimons,
Daniel HeHter,
William Bingham,
William M'Clay,
William Irvine,of Cumberland,
Thomas Hartley,
Peter Muhlenberg,
James Rofs of Wafliington,
William Kittera,
Thomas Scott,
John Arnett.
In the formation of this ticket mecfilration
lias been out of the queltion, for I consider
Pennfyivania as an unit i:i the federation ;
local repi'efentation may and ought to be
>reserved in our itate government, but iij
:he great scale it ought not topoflefs a line.
In this felectiou I have been careful not to
jropof; characters of an amphibious or
.loubtful nature: let the man who has
jraved the tempest and lent his aid in times
jf danger enjoy the fruits of his exertion s &
:he honours which he has toiled to eftablilh,
ind iet not a grateful country be unmind
:ul of the patriot when reposing herfelf in
:he lap of peace.
MIRABEAU.
The printers in the state, as friends to
:he freedom of opinion, are requested tc
jive the above a place in their papers.
PHILADELPHIA.
August 15, 1-9:.
LORD RODNEY.
So difiblute had been the private life ol
:his old marine servant of (ireat Britain,
ivho fu. ef fully fought many of her naval
jattles. and so extremely attached had he
Deen all his lifetime to gambling, that he
lied at last at an advanced age,with not pro
perty enough to redeem his lifelefs corpse
rom the fangs of his creditors. —The fol
owing paragraphs on this fubjeft occur in
1 late London paper.
" Many people affected by a Noble Lord's
'Rodney) body being kept above ground by
:he Iheriff's writ, exclaim against the cruel
:y of such a law ; but, alas, fay the prifon
;rsinmany of the gaols of England, let us
jnlv be free while we live, and you maj
irrelt our bodies when dead, with all our
learts.
"The corpse of a peer may certainly be
topped by the laws of England for a debt.
I'he body is 110 longer a peer—The son i:
;he peer asfoon as the father is dead, whe
:her he be buried or not. —O, the pity of it.
Immortal Rodney, O the pity of it !
" Afuperb monumc-nr, it is reported, will
je erected to the. memory of the gallanl
Kodney, at the expenceofthe Welt-Indu
uerehants."
To demonflrate the superior excellent
if Beethasn's Walhing-Mill to any othei
node of walhing cloaths, the following cer
:itied account of the operation of that ma
:hine is published in a London paper :
The following articles were completel;
.vafhed between the hours of nine in the
Homing and nine at night, in a comvnoi
nil! of lix'guineas value ; and in the ope.-
•ation.consuming only nine pounds and ar
lalf ps soap, and a pound of pearl afnes ;
:hey were ail wrung at the fame time in c
:ommon wringer, value one guinea.— 35c
shirts and Ihifts, each worn a week—64 a
prons, ditto—lo gowns, ditto—lo frocks,
ilitto—2 long table-cloths, 48 (lieets. worn
1 month —Caps and other small articles in
numerable.
It may be necessary to remark, that tc
wa(h the fame quantity by hand, always
took seven women two days.
A second wafliing, on the 28th of March,
was performed in twelve hours, with only
nine pounds and an half of soap, and a
pound of pearl aiher^— 400 (hirts and (hir'ts,
worn a week—9B aprons, ditto—3l hand
kerchiefs—4 gowns—41 caps, and other
pieces of fmaxi linen ; 52 (heets, each worn
one month.
Extraß of a letter from Bermuda, July 28.
" The (hip Sovereign, capt. Welch, which
arrived at Barbadocs the 13' th inft. from
London, onherpalfage out ("poke the Lord
CambdenEaft-Indiaman,bound home with
government dispatches from Lord Corn
wallis, containing the particnlars of the
taking Seringapatam, after a severe conflict,
but that Tippoo elcaped. After the cap
ture Tippoo entered into treaty with the
combined powers in the molt laumiliatin.
manner, in which he gave lip half his king
dom, was to pay three millions sterling m
money, one halt'of which was to be imme
niatelypaid down in camp, anil the other
half in twelve months; his two eldest lons
were given as hostages for the due perform
ance of thetreaty.
" Tuesday his Excellency the Governor
iffiied his proclamation, allowing the ini
pottation of fait provilions, &c. in Britilh
or foreign bottoms, from any foreign ports,
until the firft day of November next, on ac
count of the great l'carcity of provilions in
these islands.
•' We learn from the Weft-Indies, that
in consequence of the new regulations and
reliriftions likely to take place on their
trade, by the impolitic interference of Par
liament, many planters and merchants are
felling oft' their estates and property, in or
der to move to other countries to fettle."
'7'he celebrated Warren Hastings' trial is
(aid CO b e nearly at an end, and that he will
come o:i'with flying colours. The expence
incurred bv *h e solicitors on the occaiion a
mounts to/".3iS9 6 ° 2 9 fterl.
Reports from westward fay, that the
Indians were alTemb''"'JS to the number of
four or live thousand, ie rn ' l(^t '' T e
July,, at or near the Miai.'i ttn V n |- It !S
Hided, that they appear inci * ne ® ' or w ar >
and mean to strike fonie impo,~t^ n ' blow
towards or during autumn.
Patriotic collections are making in 'J'oft
of the towns through England and Irel..
:o aflilt tile French in their war against the
combination of tyrants.
At a meeting of the merchants of Frede
rickfburg and Falmouth, in Virginia, on the
14th ofjuly, it was determined to purchase
wheat hereafter by weight only, calculating
:he bushel at lixty pounds.
Markets at Lisbon are so glutted with
wheat and other grain, and the crops of the
rountry have been so abundant, that no en
cotii agement oifer;, for shipping grain to
that quarter, for at least a twelve month to
come.
The court of Britain is turning its serious
attention to the settlement of Upper Cana
da. Their preparations for its defence
leem somewhat extraordinary. Five hun
dred troops of Col. Simcoe's regiment are
already arrived ; and four battalions of 400
men each were daily expe£ted, when this
account came away. Artificers, emigrants,
Sec. are alio continually coming over to
fettle in that province.
Since the enforcing the decree of the Na
tional Assembly, granting privileges to the
Mulattoes of Freuch Hifpaniola, affairs put
on a better afpecl in that colony. Eight or
nine refractory members of the Provincial
Afi'eijibly have been taken up and sent to
France ; and the negroes begin to return to
their duty.
Capt. Carey is arrived at Providence in 12 days
from Leogane. lie informs, that the decree ol
lie National Aflenably, refpefting the People
of Colour, has been generally ratified---that the
;inigra|its were returning—and that the Negroes
who had been 111 arms, were returning to the
plantations. [Bujion Cent.j
(The following is inserted verbatim from
:i Belfalt newfpaperl—"To the patriotic
:lubs and societies of Ireland : Brethren
md countrymen —The stamp upon newspa
pers has too well answered the purpose for
which it was designed. It has rendered
them so dear as to put it out of the powffr
of many of the lower classes of people to
procure them —the consequence of which
lias been, a great defect in knowledge, and
a total unacquaintance with the progress of
society abroad, or even at home. —Though
a Paine, a a Christie, or ;i
Northern Whig may have roused .the peo
ple a little from their lethargy—yet; to m>
own knowledge, the very names of mail}
excellent writers have not reached tci:
miles from Belfaft, or perhaps-from the ca
pital—lf therefore our patriotic societies
and booksellers would engage such iliop,
keepers in the different towns and village;
as wilh well to the prosperity of their coun
try, to fell such publications there woulc
be a rapid incrsal'e of knowledge amongfl
the people."
(On the above a correfpoiident begs leav
to remark, that in this country there seem
to have been ail inclination to pursue the
fame plan, not only with regard to newlpa
pers, but to ufeJuL Looks imported,the ta>
on which is now seven and an half per cent.
Were this laid only on such books as are
re-printing in the United States, there
could be 110 just caule of complaint; bin
conlidering how many thousands of ufefu
books are wanting in our schools and aca
demies, and by profeilional men (wbich ar<
not re-printing and will not perhaps foi
twenty years to come, in this country), ii
it not an actual f'uppreflion of the circula
tion of knowledge to lay so enormous a ta*
on all imported books indiscriminately, npi
even excepting the bible. The bookseller;
here generally lay 130 percent, on the fier
ling cost, or more, which raises fame ex
cellent school-books. Sic. up to an untan.
eible price for tradesmen or mechanics:
for inltance, Guthrie's Geography, which
can be purchased in Europe for tjs come;
at and so in proportion for
oltiei- booki. Twenty fliiHings is not an
unusual price to demand here for a boo.;
that can be purchased in Europe for 73. —
Nor are the booksellers to be blamed for
this; being obliged to lay a fufficient protic
both on the prime cost and on the duties.
Thus,learning will soon be rendered unat
tainable by any bi:t the rich , a measure in
its coufequentes wholly inconfilleht with a.
free and equal government. J
By a courier ariived at Havre de Grace just
as an American \effel was about to failtoi*
New-York, and which had but 27 days pafiagty
the intelligence was received that the army of
M. de la Fayette had taken the citadel of Na
inur, after having cannonaded and bombarded
it for 48 hours successively, with a formidable
train of artillery, and then carried it by aflault as
soon as the breaches were fufficient to fender it
. rafticable. The French killed 3000 men,
made 1500 prisoners, and only 101 l 500 men in
the a&ion. After the capture of the citadel,
the French entered the town, where the inha
bitants were difiled in the national cockade, and
where the three coloured flag was unfurled, and
ornamented by the cap of liberty. Detachments
of M. de la Fayette's army surprized and took
Mons and Charleroy, where they made 1750
priloners. [Gen. Advtrtifer.j
Accounts from Chaileflon by the schooner
Capt. Lloyd Jones, advise, that firtce the
2oth of June the seasons have beeu favourable
n the back country of South-Carolina and
Georgia, ano' since the middle of July, in the
low lands along the fca coafl. A healthier sea
son was never known in Carolina than the pre
sent. The rice swamps were promising (an un*
-ummonly abundant crop, and the Indian corn
lad only failed on high sandy situations. The
pdiao as much in ured by the early drought*
ilon - the t> uf promised a plentiful produco
n the upper c' oLintr y-
We leatn from St. Chriflopher's that the
planters there have peremptorily refufed to pay
the duty of 4 1-2 upon the exportation of sugars,
and that suits had been brought in the common
law court there, to discuss the propriety of that
impoll continuing to be levied.
Capt. Bafden, of the Hoop Fame, arrived
here yesterday in 15 days from Bermuda, expe
rienced a severe gale of wind on Sunday the
inflant, duiing which five puni.heoiis of iuw
were lloved in the hold.
A vefiel arrived at Salem on the 6th of Al!-
igufl, from Bilboa in Spain, which place she left
j the Bth of June. The Captain was informed,
I previous to his leaving Spain, that there were
orders for railing 18, coo men 111 the northern
parts of Spain, to be sent to Madrid, to overawe
the people as was fnppofed, who began to talk
and write too freely of the measures of govern
ment. The Queen's party is considered there
! (as was the cafe in Fiance) as inimical to the ine
: terells of the people, in compliance with whole
; willies and contrary to hers, the present miniilrjf
have been brought into office.
The (hip Dauphin, Capt. Hopkins is r.r
rived at Bolton, in ten weeks from Paterl'-
burgh, in Russia. Information is received
j by this vessel, that the Ruffians are not raif
' ing any forces againlt the French—but they
will not fuft'er a Frenchman torts.de among
them.
The celebrate d Mr. P.iine, it is said, hn*
quitted England. Since which his tliiid panu
phlct has been suspended.
At a meeting of the President and Managers
of the Schuylkill aud Sukjue.hannah navigation,
Augull 13th, 179-3.
It was refolvcd, That Ihe woik of the can;d
be immediately commenced on the Crown Le
vel.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS,
August, 1792.
DH ■ Bar. Ther.Wind.. Wca/h.
Wednejday, 8. g 30. o 74 'Ca'ijn To gy
2 ',0. 1 i;o S. W. Fair.
TiutjUay, 9. 6 50. I 75 . \V. Fair.
2 <0- 1 18 S. W.l dp.
Friday,. 10. 6 30. o 75 S. W .Fair.
2 9' 9 - <c »9 W.
Saturday, ii. 61 29. 9 S. w. hair
■-). f 5 9 t W. do.
Sunday, 12. 6 8 79 ! 3~\V.TJT;.
~ 2i)« 75 89 do- J do.
Monday, 13.6 2s~ ;o N~W.iT.jfT*
2 50. o 86 W. | do.
Tut [day, 14, 6 29. ,9! 73
2. 29.551 -2_ S. W.lArin'
■■111 1 ■■■raiiiwm >>Wl| 1 ■ ia.\«a|MnM|gtUUßtt>xan
E O R SAL E,
ABOUT 100,000 acres of Lard, lying ntnt
Whiteftown, in the (late of NewlYork, ou
the north fide of the Mohawk river, adjoining
Nobleborough, and will be fold either in parcels
or together, as may suit she purch^fers.
N. B. The above trail of land is of the firft
quality in the state, chiefly timbered with beach
■ind maple, well watered, and contains many mi;;
feais. The peculiar advantages of this traef j situ
ated within a few miles of Whiteftown (which
contains upwards of five thousand iuhabitants)
with an easy and convenient water carriage to
Schenedlady, Albany, and New-York, make it an
objea for any persons inclined to fettki , and ren
der it an extremely advantageous puichafe for
perlonj inclined to realize their money in land of
ad encreafing value. The whole trail or any oart
of it, will be fold very low for cafli, or for pare
cadi, and the remaining pavments at distant peii
ods.- Enquire at No. 219 Que eft .il rset) near t's
Fly-markct. • * •
July 19.From the VIRGINIA GAZETTE.
IT hat been difcovcrrd by the aristocrats of En*
gland that the celebrated Paine was once a
Stay-A4uker- This charge is made for the pur
pole of invalidating his doctrine of u The Rights
of Man j" or, at lead, to prove that be had no
kuilnels to meddle with the fubjeCt. Does nol
a Stay-maker, then, pofl'efs the rights of man ?
a/ net, it mud, 1 suppose, be owing to the affini
ty between his occupation and that of a Tailor.
Jt appears however, to me, who am no aristocrat,
that could they prove upon Paine the faCt of hav
ing been even a Tailor, he might, very confident
ly, have Hiil advocated those rights. lam aware
•f the objection drawn from the proverbial inca
pacity of the crofs-leggcd fraternity. It may bi
fai«J that a Tailor being only the n'ir.tb part of t
many is not ioterefted iu a doCtrine that relates tr
'*whole men, and ought, therefore, to have left it t(
. the pai ties concerned. This argument is/aliaci
©us > $ for thoughr it is admitted that, should the
.rights of man be sever so much extended, a Tai
ior's proportion of, *bem will be jutt the fame a
heretofore, viz. one.«w«ri>, yet it i# evident hi
, fua>ntity will be increased. This being as plair
as the nose on your fac£, I fay no more about it
The charge above mentioned is made in " thi
.life of Paine, ** lately published in Engla.id. Witi
.alidue deference to his ..biographer, however,
am inclined to believe that Paine, instead of \
Stay-Maker, muil have beerubred a Barber. Thi
account of his education talliea*well with the pro
iiciency made by him in politics j gentlemen o
-the razor being the grea tell. .£>£«/ JJrtnci in thi
world. Certain it is, he has long been in th
practice of taking mtajure cf, and drtjfing crown
.«d heads : And, a Royal Barber.« let me telf you
js a not lo despicable ! Dcfpicable did
fay ? By the Rights of Man ! 1 believe th3t ai
ohice which neceflarily brings the holder of it in
to close familiarity with the person of "Back el
Majesty would be the subjeCt of envy to mam
-a iuperciiiuus aristocrat ! —To take a Kimg b;
ih« Nose !—what an honor !-—what a hapui
ness !
But I am Graving from my purpose } which wa
to remark upon the injurtice and folly of object
ing to any man the oblcurity of hir. birth or edu
cation. The injaftice of it is manifeft from th<
+b vitrus confederation that birth and education art
eircumltances which no man can controul. Bu
the folly of , when the objection is made to emi
nent characters, is extreme. Cannot these ob
jeCtors perceive that, when they mean to reproacl
such an one with the meanness of his "Befcent.
they, in effeCt, pay him the highest compliment :
since the nreateli is d«e to him for having
railed himfelf to conference by his own merit i
But, great as is this tolly, there is one Kill greater;
I mean the wifb, the anxiety of persons, thus de
scended, and thus railed, to conceal their origir
from the view of the worU : As if the coatraft ol
their former with their present situation, wer<
not, initead of being difgraceful, highly honorable
to them ! Is it not a proof of extraordinary mer
it in a man to raise himfelf to coofequence, ii
fflite of ailthe obstacles thrown in hi« way b;
nature, by accident, or misfortune ?
When I fee a man of merit and eminence thu:
endeavoring to screen from the company circum
fiances so honorable to himfelf, I aaftonilhec
at the power of prejudice, and pity the itnbecili
ty of the human mind \
This weakness is so common that there are fev
eminent characters who have been exempt from it
who have dared to diaw aside th« veil whichever
td the fee ret of their birth j are spoken of as person
of superior liberality and enlarged underttandings,
The liberality #f such a disclosure I cannot per
ceive Nor can I admit that it is any great ef
fort of good sense to excite, by such obvious
means, additional admiration.
1 had almost forgot to inform you that in " Th<
life of Paine" be is charged with not being wortl
a Ihilling in the world And yet—would you
believe it ?—His faithful and impartial biogia
pher, a few pages afterwards, accuses him witl:
tne crime of not supporting his Mother ! !
Thus we fee that malicious persons, as well as
Jiars, have need of good memories.
PHILO PAINE.
July 14, 1791.
PARLIAMENTARY REFORM.
The urgent necefiity for a Parliamentary Re
form cannot be more forcibly illuftrated> than bj
the following lift of boroughs, where a majorit)
of the cledtors arc below twenty j—
Leftwithiel fends a chosen by 1;
Truro % J4
Bodmyn a 19
Saltafh a 15
Gamelford a io
Bofliney a ti
St. Michael a 14
St. Mawe's a )6
Tiverton a 14
Maiden a 14
Harwich a. *7
Thetford a 17
Brockley a 17
Banbury I
Bath a 17
Newport, Wight, a IJ
Ne*ton» ditto a 1
Andover * ®3
Catton * *3
Bramber % 11
East Giinftead a 19
Came a *8
$talmfbury * 7
Old Sarum a 1
Bewdley a 18
New Romney a >7
Marlborough a a
Buckingham a 7
55 364
Hew then we fee fifty-ftte member,
tout I ninth part of the EnglUh House of Com
moni, >re sent by thice hundred and fixt)-foui
voters!—which n»mber, according to that calcu-
Jation which makes a jujl di*ifion for the free.
hQldeti of* iefj>«flabl« tt«u/ity (Q»f»rdlljj.-e./»i
mftance) ought not to le permitted to e!e& a Tin
gle representative. How far thcfc notorious
abufei demand a substantial reform, we need not
lay. Fads (peak tor themfclves. Be it noted,
that the eight counties of Cornwall, Wilts, Sus
sex, Hunts, Berks, Bucks, Lincoln, and Dorset,
estimated at less than a million of* inhabitants,
return one .hundred and eighty seven members to
Parliament; that is above one third of the five
hundred and fifty-eight members, of which the
house of Commons is Composed. Whereat Mid
dl-efes and Cheshire, which are calculated to ex
ceed these counties in populction, fend the small
number of tWelve. Mark the enormous difpro*
portion !
" — MgJ*
[Tie fo//o*ving patriotic and grateful Pr-jptfal
*vas some timt JtHct Jubtnitttd to tbe public in one
of tbe Boston Paper* :]
" However formidable the Austrian tfoops,
could they not be nppofed by some among us }
To the Tirolcfe Challieur oppose American rifle
men, and would the contest be equal ? Would
Prutlian Grenadiers or Austrian Croats, Pandours
and Houians stand agaiuft the dexterity, adtivit)
and inipctuofity of our bcck woodsmen ? Thcii
tomahawk might vie with the Pruflian bayonet.
Doc; not patriotic gratitude call upon us to af
lift, if in our nation to whom we owe in
a degree the political happiness we enjoy ? A*
sons of freedom would it net become our charac
ter to lend some ailHUnce to a nation combating
to secure their liberty ?
'I wo thousand of our woodsmen would be
a great acquisition to the French army, and a
leourge to their enemies. Tlicir ufefulnefs once
proved, the French might profit by their instruc
tions.
Let a fubfeription be set on foot, an adequatt
sum would soon be raifeij to give fu»licient encour
agement to that numberr. A plan of this kind
need not be a measure «of goverument : our gov
ernment is a government of peace: but Ameri
cans are enthusiastic of liberty } why fuppref
.their feelings at so glorious a period j this it thi
moment to evince the»r gratitude."
Upon ivbicb tbe Amei ican Mercury [printed a
Hartftrd\ thus remarks :
Is it possible that arty man, in his sober sens
;s, co'ijld have made ft > extravagant and ridiculou
a proportion to the pubfic. From whence is th
money to be had for ratling 2000 hardy, and va
liaat woodsmen in Durback country ; marchin]
them to our sea ports, and thence fh'pping then
to Fran.ce j there ma intaining them until the;
have taUight the Fren« :!b army the use of the Rifl
and the 'Xomahawk ? .Has this paragraph write
calculated the ex pen c< 5 of this armament ? Is hi
sure it can readily be obtained by his propofei
fufcription. Every .ftmeritan, who loves hi
country, who refpc&i , the government, and th:
principles which led t j the establishing it, muf
ardently wish that the present government o
Franc: may defend themselves all thei
enemic3, who have ft? unjustly leagued together t<
deltroy the preient co ofbtution of that kingdom
All good mutt wish that the princi
pie*, of civil and reljg ious liberty, and the equa
right" of man, may 1 oc known and revered, no
only in Europe, but' throughout the world. Ye
we, Americans, have no occasion to interfere ii
the war now broke c >ut in Europe. We are to(
weak, ana at too g«t at a di ft a nee to be of any rea
service to the party 1 vhofe fuceefs we wish ; or 0
danger to the party whose designs we reprobate
If we owe so mucn $ ratitude to the French nati
on, who aided us in our late struggle with Great
Britain, we owe {till more to our country. Thofi
who refpedt the right s of man and love a frei
governme.it, are reqa efted to lend the aid of thei
Superfluous cajb to th< * United States j to enabli
theiii to discharge the ir pecuniary obligations t<
the French governmei it j a proposition infinitel)
more honorable to ur, and ufeful to them, thar
fending a few back w< *odfmen to be opposed t<
German Riflemen, an d Austrian Flanders. Be
fides we have use for a II our hardy back country
men, in finifiling an in glorious war, which rage;
on our own frontiers.' *
A Mr. Kempetten, of Vienna, In Germany
has invented a machin t, by which the humai
voice is perfectly itnifat ed. It gTves corfedtly thi
found of all the voweh and the consonants ; bu
the latter are combined and exprefled with fomi
difficulty. Of consequ ence, the ingenious inven
tor has found it better faited to Italian, Frencl
and Latin, than to his q ative language. But h<
has hopes of introduce njg considerable improve
ments, and of arranging it in such manner, tha
it may be played on with keys in the manner 0
an organ, and with equa I facility.
Several attempts to <bt i.ng to perfection a ma
chine of this kind have at different trmes beer
made by eminent European artists, with no in
considerable degree ofifuccefs. Paris oflate year
produced two, one Imitating a mafculinc voice
ifTuing from a gigantic head, and the other
child's voice, proceeding from the figure of ■
child. The last mentioned was made to pro
nounce with a considerable degree of propriet
this short fentence—Maman, irons nous a Paris i
[Mama, fhali we go to Paris ?]—Every foum
was well exprefled except that of the r in th? lal
word»
At firlt View machines of this kind may b
looked upon only in tke light of curiosities, am
merely as displaying ingenuity j but if brought t
any considerable decree of perfection, they migh
be made to anTwer a very valuable purpose.
It is thonght they might be made records 0
pronunciation. No dictionary now printed cai
convey to our posterity the pronunciation now ii
use j but a machine of this kind now conftrudtei
would be an oracle of true pronunciation to fu
rure ages, and the English now spoken be preferv
ed by these means in its present purity* Variati
ons in pronunciation produce a change in spelling
and thus the old English has become uninteJligi
ble to most Englishmen of the present day, anc
the vast treasures of knowledge and science con
tained in books then printed, now monopolized bj
a few. The fame with other languages. Whai
an invaluable acquisition to the learned of the
present day, would the bust of Homei be, pro
nouncing, as the author sung; the», ©nly the an
firlt liq«i $f ;ke Iliad.
To be p-Miflitd by Sulfcr'tption,
THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Old ConavcJ^,
From their firft Meeting in September 1*774:
to their final diflbiution in March 1789,
COMPRISING at foil length, every impor
tant resolution, order, address, declaracion.
See. contained \,i the thirteen volumes of theii
journals—a concifc fummarv of the less interest
ing parts,—»an alphabetical lift of appointments,
promotions and resignations—a colle&ive viewin
the public expenditures, See. &c.—the whole in
tended to serve as a fatisfadory substitute for the
original journals* which are now out of print, anc
of which the entire substance, tin incumbered with
official formalities and repetitions, will here b<
given in about one fourth of their present bulk,
accompanied with one complete general Index
To which will be added, a copious and valuable
colle&ion of original
& lute J^aheto,
from the Records and Files of
Containing (either verbatim,or in abflraft
as the cases may l'everally require) such intercft
ftlg pieces referred to in the journals, a a may wit}
propriety be permitted to be made public, viz
Letters from the different officers employed it
the public service during the hue war—intercept
ed letter? of the enemy—communications fron
governors, slate legifiatures, conventions, am
committees—dispatches from agents and com
miflioners—inftruftions--- reports of committee
of Congress 5 and various other authentic doeu
ments, tending to throw a light on the importan
events, to which America owes her present inde
pendence.
In the course of the work, will be introduced,
in their proper places, such parts of the
Secret
as no longer require secrecy.
As soon as 500 copies are fubferibed for, th
work will be put to press, to be delivered to sub
fcribers, in numbers of 304 ocftavo pages each, a
OHiDoiiiii'm blue boards. The Sub
fcription money tut!l mt be required for the firl
Number, until the publication is begun ; an
on the delivery of each number, half a dollar wi
beexpefted in advance for the succeeding one
To non-fubferibers, the price will be raised.
Subscriptions will be received by th: prin
cipal booklellers throughout the Union, and b
the Editor.' JOHN CAREY.
N». 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
TO THE PUBLIC.
*HE Subscriber has it in contemplation foo:
to decline hit present business—and having o:
hand a cor.fiderable quantity of fuperfine fecon
and elastic cloths, together with a variety of othe
articles in his way, proposes ro fell them at th
followin reduced pees, VIZ,
Bert Superfine navy blue
Ditto, ditto. Scarlet g6/,
Common colours fuperfine 32/.
Elastic (tripes gj~,
London buff and white cafiimers
Ditto, coloured do. j
York (hire do. do. j}/o.
Striped toileneti j
Rattinets
Striped Nankeens : ,
A variety ofwaiOcoat (liapei proportionably lov
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London be ft silk hose, from 12/6 to 14/.
The above goods have been mostly imported fron
sue of the firft mercantile houses in London, an<
ire of an equal qu ility o any imported into Ame
ica; they will be fold per piece or smaller quantit
is may bed suit the purthjfers , by the public
"o" humble fervan:, JOHN SHEPHERD.
Es»Any person disposed to purchase the whol,
)f the above (lock, may also have on reafonabli
erms his pre sent dwelling house together will
he (lore, a more eligible situation for business ii
:he tailor's line is not to be found in this city
The advantage of this business being so well efta
ilifhedbythe proprietor will be very grat, sn<
rom well known fa&s, needs no comment.
A lease of si* years may be had of the house.
'4. aaw.tf,
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale by the Printer,
[ohnM'Culj.och, at No, i. North Third-
Street, and by most of the Book-
Sellers in this city,
(Price 3/9)
MODERN CHIVALRY:
Containing the
Adventures of Capt. John Farrago.
and
Teague .O Regan,
his Servant.
▼ol um B Ir.
Bt H. H. BR ACKENRTDGE.
2<licquid agunt Homines, ttojlri, Farrago libelli.
Juvenal
George Tozen, June 2, 1792.
A NUMBER of LOTS in every fituatiar
which may bedefired in the city of Walh
ington, will be offered for sale, by the Commis
sioners on Monday the Bth day of October next
One fourth part of the purchase money to b<
paid down, the residue in three equal annual pay.
ments, with yearly interest on the whjle princi
pal unpaid. JOHN M. GANTT,
July jj, Clwjt. t» thj C&dimil&aneft.
Society fbr fpabiijbing] tifrful Mar.ufacturet•
NOTICE »9 hereby given to the holders of
£ock in the (aid society, that the following,
arrangement has been made by the Deputy Go
ernor and Directors thereof, by a resolution of
ihc eighteenth day of May, 1792.
The second instalment for the paymerit of /hares
in the flock of this society, may be made in the
followiug manner, viz.
The amount of the said second instalment, be
ing 20 13-100 dollars each (hare, may be paid in
three payments, on condition that tbe lawful in
terest of 7 per cent, per annum, be calculated
and paid with each proportionate part of the said
payment, that is to fay, on or before the thir
teenth day of August next, the sum of 6 71-100*
frith the addition of 12 cents, being the interest
of one month on 20 13-100 dollars—on or be
fore the 13th of September next, the sum of 6
71-100 dollars, with the addition of 8 cents, be
ing the interest for one month on 13 42-100 dol
lars—and on or before the 13th of Otkober next,
th- sum of 6 71-100 dollars, with the addition of»
4 cents, being the interest on the sam& for one
month. The said payments are to be made at the
following placcs, viz. In the city of Philadelphia,
git the bank of the United States—-at New-Brunf
wick, in New-Jersey, to John Bayard, or John
Neilfon, Efqrs—and in the city of New-York, at
the bank of New-York, or either of rhs said
places, which may be moll convenient to the*
ftocl* holders.
By order of the Jirfcftion,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, ClerJof
Jaiyiv t r.
PUBLIC REPORTS
FK O M TH >
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMETS
OF THE
Government of the United States
CONGRESS,
Commencing with the prejent Government, and end
ing With the clojc of the Hejjior. oj May 1792.
THIS work ii intended 10 be printed in oM
volume octavo, estimated to contain between five
and si:: hundred pages, and will be delivered to
fubferibers in boards at One Dollar and a half.
A complete colleflion of the Reports into a
convenient and portable volume has been fug
gelled to the pubhthers by several Members of
Congrcfsand other gentlemen, and they are noUr
determined to proceed 011 with the work, provi
ded a competent number of fubferibers appcir
to patronize the undertaking.
Subfcriptioni are received by CHILDS and
SWAINE, the publifliers, No. 209, Market
flreet, Philadelphia, and by the principal Booki
fellers in the United States. May 24.
NEW-YORK & PHILADELPHIA STAGES
Via Bordeiiton and Burl'wgtcn t
And SHREWSBURY fc PHILADELPHIA
STAGE,
l r ia Bcrdtnttn.
THE proprietors of the New.York and Phi
ladelphia land and water Stages beg leave co
mention, that for the better accommodation of
paliengers, they have thooght proper to remove
the different packet boats from their former
at the Crooked Billet wharf, to the wharf or dock
immediately next below Arch-ftrrjr, from whence,
Dn the firft day of July next, and afterwards,'a
convenient packet-boat will start for New-York,
as usual, on every Sunday, Tucfday, Wednesday
and Thursday, and return on every Tucfday,
rhurfday, Friday and Saturday The paflage to
be made eithet by the way of Bordcnton 0. Bur
ington, each place to be talc.-n alternately. Fare
or pafl'engers from Philadelphia to New-York
151.— For Goods pr.cwt. 6s.
VAN EMBURGH 8C M'KEAN,
david Williamson,
Proprietors of the line of New-York and Phi
ladelphia Stages, by the route of Bordenton.
JACOB MYERS,
AMOS HUTCHIN,
NICHOLAS SCHENK-,
Proprietor! of tha lint of N. York and Phila
delphia Stages, by the route of Burlington.
The Shrewsbury Stage will leave Philadelphia
the months of July and Septembar, on every
Sunday and Wedne&fiv, and return on every
Tuesday and Friday. In the month of August,
it will leave Philadelphia on every Sunday and
1 hurlday, and return on erery Tuesday and Sa
uraay.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
Daniel lot,
Proprietors of the Shrewlbury and Philad. Stage,
Bordtntcitiity "June 25, 1792.
For freight or palTV.ge appjy to the matters on
bf ird, or to M'KEAN & VAN EMBURGH,
at their ftor« on said whirs, immediately next be
low Arch-Street j by übotn orders J pr the purcbaje
\f all kinat of grain, Jittves, cr other country pro
duce y are punctually at tended to.
For freight or paifage to Lambcrton or Tren
ton, alio apply as above. , aw c
Philadelphia, 'June 27.
"•* Three handsome Editions of tbe law*
if tbe United States for [ale at this office
(No. 209 Market flreet) in folia and oSa
vo, either full or half bound—N.B. Tbe
Laws of the lafl tn octavo only,
be hadfeparate, price three eighths of a dollar,
**" l' or fait at this Office., Sermons b}
the Rev'd Dr. IVUUnm Linn, of N. York
Price 5/7 l-a,
PR INTED BY
CHILDS AND SWAIN?,
AT THKIROFFICE NO. 20Q, HICH-ftXRttT
NEAR FIFTH-STREET,
r.MI^APg^FH|,V»