Voi. J.
BY THE
PRESIDENT
oe' the vnited states.
A PR()CLAM ATI ON.
HERS AS certain violent
\ \ and uim arrant able pro
cecd ngs have lately taken place tending
to obftruft i lie operation of the laws of the
United Sta'ts for r.i ling a revenue upon
spirits difiilled within t!ie fame, enact <1
pursuant. to exprcfsyuithority delegated in
the CoHlitiuion of the United States ;
which proceedings are fubverfi.v'e of good
cider, contrary to the du;y that ev. :y ci
trV. n iiwrs to his country and to the laws
and of a nature dangerous to the very e
ing of government .
And whereas such proc .c'inga are tin
more unwarrantable by re-fin i'f the mo
delation which has been hereto ore fhe\rr
on the nartof the government, and of thi
disposition manif.lted by t' e hgifl tint
( .' ho alone have a tin r ty to fulpesd tin
cper 'in of! vv ) :o obviate caules o
obj' £\ion, arid to render the laws as. accept
able -s possible : aid whereas it is the parti
culardutv i ftliecx tltive'" to take care thai
tire laws be failhlullv executed and nol
onl that dirty, but the permanent mte
reils ahd h ppinefs of the people require
lliat every legal and tree (Tiry ft p fhijuk
4>c purfucd, as well to pre-'ens fueh vio'eni
and unwarrantable proceedings, fit to hri i.
ti jirllice the infrhCtors'of the law9,and'fe
cure obedience thereto.
Now therefore I George Walhington
P". fiden; of the United States, do by theft
prefentj most earneftiy a moniih jnd ex
hort il: p, ifons whom it may concern, to
refiin d di fill from aL unlawful coiphi
nations and p (>cecdings whatf ever having
for obj.-.t '.i-.tending to obflrud} the „pe
ra'i ;r or the laws aforefaid ; imtfinuch a!
all lav. fu' ways and fneans will be llriitly
put n x' utio-n for bringing to judice th<
j lit' s thereof and tecuring obeui ncc
the reto.
And I do moreover charge and rtquiri
all Courts, n.agillrates : lid officers who,m il
may concern, a cording to the uutie6 ol
their fcveral offices, to exert the powers i
them r fp* ively veiled by law for the pur
p.>(es store fa id, hereby alio enjoining anc
requiting all p-rf ins whomfoe er as they
tender the welfare of their country, tin
jult an i due u'hority of government am
the prefervati n: of the public peace, to bi
aiding and ifiifting therein according tc
law.
In Teflimony wh reof, I have caufec!
the seal of the Uuiiee States to bi
affixed to lliefe prelents, and figne
tlu fame with niy h.nd. Done thi
fifteenth day it .September in t! ■
\ ear of OU' Lord one theufand fev. r
hundred and ninety two, and of th
Indtpendence of the United States
the seventeenth.
° WASHINGTON.
By the PrES I DENT.
Th: JEFFERSON.
DEFENCE
Of Mr Jeffers n'spolitical Char/iSer, in
reply to Jii-eraJ Picctfs which have
appeared agai.Jl it in the
Gazette of the United States.
[From the American Daily Advertiser ~
[Continued f cm cur h jl. ]
" Paris, May 3, 1788.
"TTTHUE their, (meaning Am
VV tteidatri) I endeavoured to get
as well as I could into the Ante of nations
credit there : fcr although 1 am an enen y
to using our credit, hut under abfolnte ne
Cfflity, yet the pi ffi fling a good c edit ]
.eonfider as indifprnfrhle in the prefenl
fyfteni of carrying on war The exittenc*
of a nation having J '.o ciedit is always pre
carious."
By P. FR E N EA U : Publijhtd Wednesdays and Satu»days, al Three Dollars per annum.
SATURDAY, September 29, 1702.
" Pans, July 31, 1793.
•' I fincereVy rejoice at the acceptance
of oar new Conltitutioii by nine dates. It
s a good caHvafs on which some strokes
only want retouching. What these are, I
think are fufficiently martifefteJ by the
general voice from north to fotith, which
calls for a hill of rights. It seems pretty
gener lly underllood tliat this (houM e.o
to juries, habeas corpus, (landing armies,
printing, relgion, and monopolies. I
conceive there nay he difficulty, in find ng
genetal modifications of these, suited to
the habits of all the states 15 it if fucti
cannot be found, then it is better to eftal)
hfh trials hy jury, the righ of h beaa cor
pus, freedom of the press, and freedom of
religion, in all cases, and to aholifh Hand
ing armies n time of pence, and monopo
lies i 1 all cases, than not do it in any
The few cases wherein these things may
Oo evil cannot be weighed against the
multitude wherein the wnnt of them wii
do evil Ii diiputes between a foreign*
Hud a native a trial hy jury m ybe im
proper ; but i ( this exception cannot be
agreed to, the remedy will be, t > mode'
the jury by giving the medietas linguas i'i
civil, as well as in criminal cases Why iul
- the habeas corpus in infurredtions and
rebellion ! The parties who may be ar
rfcfted, may he charged instantly with a
well defined rime : of course the judge
will remand them ; if trie public fafety re
quires tha' the government should have ;i
man imprifom d on less probable tellimo
ny, in tho'e thjn in other emergencies, let
him oe taken and tried, retaken and retried,
while the necifli'y continues, 0..!y giving
him redress »gain(l the gove ntnent for
damages lxainine the hillory of Eng.
land, fee how few cases of lie. fufoenfi ai
of the habeas corpus law have betn wor
thv of that fufpenlion They have been
either real trenfons, wherein the parties
niglu as well have been c iarged at once,
ur Ih nil plots where it was (baneful they
should ever have been susp £te<l. Yet for
the few cases, wherein the fufpenlion of
the habeas covplis has done real good,
that operation is now become habitual,
and the minds of the natioa alnoft pro
pared to lire under its coaftant fufpenlion.
A declaration tint the federal govern
ment w:l ! never rtftniin the p efles from
printing any hing they pieafe, will not
takeaway the liability of the printers for
falle facte printed The dec! iration that
religious faith (hall be unpuniftied, does
hot giro irr.pupity to iviminal sets dictated
by religious error. The faying- there fhnll
be no monopolies, less-sis the incitements
to ingenuity, which is spurred on by the
hope of a mou ply for a limited time, as
of fourteen y ars : but the benefit, t'ven
of limited 's, is'oo doubtful to
be ojipufed <0 tint of t,heir general fufpen
lion. If no check can be found to keep
the number of Handing troops within f fe
bounds, whi e they are tolerated as far as
neci fia:y, abandon ihtin alt. gel her'; di
friplinc well the militia, and guard the
magazine with them. M re tli.in maga
line guards will be us less if few , and dan
gerous if many No European nation can
cvir fetid agairifl us such a regular army
is we need fear, and it i« hard if our mill
tin are not equal to those of Canada and
Florida. My idea then is, that though
proper exceptions to these general rules are
desirable, and probably practicable, yet if
the exceptions cannot be agreed on, the
eftahli rncnt of the rules in all caf s w ll
do ill in very few I hope therefore a
bill of right s will he formed to guard the
people aga nft the fed ral government, as
t ey are already guarded againfl their (late
governments in moll inflances. The aban
doning the principle of neceffarv rotation
inihefcnate has, I fee, b«ei\difapproved
by many ; in the cafe of the prefiden by
none 1 readily therefore suppose Spy
opinion wrong when opposed b ; the ma
jority, as in thefotmer inllance, and the
totality in the latter. In this, however,
1 ihoulu have done it with more complete
fati»fa£ti in, had we all judged from the
Cime pofiiicn "
_ " Paris, Nov. I 8 1788.
" As to the bill of lights however 1 It.jfl
think it should be added, and I am glad to
fee that three (tat s have- at length consi
dered the perpetual re-eligibility of the
preftdentj as an article which should be
amended. I fbould deprccat. with you
iudeed the meeting of a new convention-
I h they iviii adopt the mode of amend
meat by roftgrefs afid t v .e aflVmblies : in
wh.ch cafe I should not har any danger
our, innovation in the plan. But the mi
lonttes irr too rifpeiSable not to be eitti
:led to f ime facriiices of opinion in tin
n ijor tv, efpeci.iily when a great propot
non of the ii woul) be contented with i
>ill of rights."
" Puis March 15, 1789.
" I cannot refrain from making (lior
'iif.vers to the obje&ions which your let
er ftttes to have been raised. 1. Tha
lie n jlits in quell ion are re'erved by t <
nan'ner in which the federal powers an
,'ran'ed *nfw< r, a conftitulivje ast ran
:ertain y be fu form d as to need no de
lsratiop of ri hts The ait i'felf has the
orce of a declaration as f r as it goes ;
uid if it goes so all m terial points, nothing
nore is warning. In he draught of a
:<>nHitutio!i which I had once a thought ol
>rop<Mihg in Virginia, an printed afier
A'ards, 1 endeavoured to reach all the great
hj C>s of public 1 berty, and did not nua
oaid a declaration of rights. P'obabl\
he object w,:s impeifectlv execute. ; bui
he deficiencies would bar been fnppl'ied bv
>tli .sin t fie ccmfe of difcufiion But ir
1 c . iiliti.tive aCt, which leaves some pie
ao;»s articles unnoticed, and riifei
••i' : nns Pirainfl mh*r*. =r declaration
if rights becomes necefiary by way of (up
plemeHt This is the cafe of our new federal
onflitution. This inliiument forms us
nto one state, as to certain übjedi, a d
jives us a legislative aird executive body
or these objects: it fl.ould then fore guar !
1 againfl their abuses of power within
he field fubinitted to them. 2. A pofi
five declaration of some tffentinl ri, hi:
rould not be obtained in the requifue la
itude. Answer, if we catino tVcure a'l
lur rights, let us secure what we can. 3.
The limited powers of the federal , overn-
Tient, and jealoulv of the fubordina e go
rernments, afford a security which ex:fls
!n no ot er inllance. .-\nfwer, the firll
nember of this seems refulvable into tht
firft objection before (tated. The jealoulj
jf the iubotcinate governmert.. is a pre
:i.iUs reliance ; but obftrve that tfioft , o
vernments r.re only agents. Thev ir.ull
have prin iples furmfhed th-m whcreoi:
to found their oppofrion Trie declara
tion of rights U'ill be the text vihrrehy
[hey will try all t hearts of the federal go
vern enl ; in this view it will be neo fTirj
10 the federal government a'fo i s by tlu
lame text, they may try the oppoliiioii o
the fuhordinate governments. 4 Exj e.
nence proves the inefficacy of a bill o:
rights Tiue ; but though it is no! ahfo
iutely efficac ous under all circu.nftances,
it iii.f gre t potency always, and rarel)
iiuffieacious. A braee th mo e will of
ter? l;e pup the building, which woul.
have f lien with that brace the lef . Ther<
is a remarkable difference between thi
characters of the ineonven encies whicli-at
tend a declaration of lights, and thoft
which attend the want of it. The incon
vo it rciei of the declaration are that il
nay cramp government in its ufeful exer
tiont ; but the e il of th.s is short lived
mode a'e, and ripai able. The inconveni
c icies of the w int of a declarati n, ar
permanen , ?ffliding, and irreparable
t 'ley arc in a constant pio.'iefiion from bai
to worse. I know there are some amonj.
us who would now eflablifh a monarchy,
but they are inconsiderable in numbei anc
weight of character. The rifiTig race art
all republicans We were educated it
royahfm : no wonder if some ot us retain
that idolatry iliil. Our young people arc
Numb, q6.
educated in repu'ilicanifm : an apoflacy
from that to royalifm is unprecedented
and impoffihle lam much pleased with
the p olprft th t a declaration of rights
will be added ; and hope it will be done
in 'hat way which will nt endanger the
whole finie of the government, or any
tflential part of it."
" Paris, /.uvvft 28, I 789,
"■ I mult now ('.y a word on tVe electa*
•atipn of rights, which,you have been so
good as to fend me. I like it as fa' as it
;oe ; but I should have been for going
further: for instance, the following alteia
■ ions and adcitionf would have pleased me-:
Art 4 The people fh ill not be deprived
or abridged of their ri; ht to speak, to w • ;e
orotherw fe to publish any thing but falfe
fadte, sfTc&ing injuriously, tlie life liber
ty, properly, or reputation of others, cr
. (letting the pe-cf f the c mfed: racy with
foreign nations. Art 7. il fadts put in
(T ie before anv judicature fliall be tried by
jury, except, 1 incase of admiralty ju
if '.iction wiicrein a foreigner ll.all he in
terefled. 2 In cases cognizab'e before a
court-martial concerning ouiv the regular
fficrfliand f.ldiers : of the Uni ed State#,
or memb. n» of the militia 111 actual fcrvice
in tim eof wa- or infuvre&ion, an ! Im
peachments nl'owed by the contention.
Art. 8- N 1 person fn :11 be hc),l in'coiifine*
tneut more than days after they 111..11
h ve demanded and been rcltifed a writ of
hah. corp by the judge appoint, b liw,
nor more than 'days after such writ
shall have been fcrved on the pe■ fan hold
ing l.irri in confinement, and no order
.riven on due examina ian for his ie»
mandment or difcharge,'nor more than
hours in-any place at a grfa ; r dillance
»'><•<• .*»■)." r>*r\ ? wf'-fv' Qifej} r f
some judge au In.riied to issue the wiii of
liab corp. nor (hall that w it be fufpen 'ed
for anv term exceeding one year, nor in
any pla e miles distant from
th. Itatio.q 01 encamp ent of enemies or
infnrgents. Art. 9 Monopolies may be
allowed to p rforw for tluir own produc
ti ns in literature, r,nd th-i- ow inven
tions in the arts, for a term not tjcceedinw
veais, bur for n> longer teun ana for
no other purpose. A't. 16. All tronp»
o the United States fliall ft.ind ipf.i facto
difb 1 (led at the expiration of the term for
which their pay an < D a 1 have
been laft'voted by Congrtfs. Tl.eCr re
ftrittions i tlmik ;ie so guar ed as to pre
vent evil only However if we do 11 t
have them now, I have so nuch Confidence
in my country nr. n, as to be fatikfied th, t
we fliall have them, as fjon as the degene
racy of our government shall render them
ncceff.ov,
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
You will please to insert the following ex
n a£l from a Pamphlet now pubhlliinc; in
Virginia, on the nereffitiei of <,n A
mendment of the Conflitution of that
State, tranfmttted for publication in the
National Gaze'te, one of yur sub-
Iciibirs in Rich i ond, in coufvquence
of a violent attack lately mad. on the
Secretary of State, in Mr Fenno's cele
brated ve/j ce, cflahlifhed fur the con
veyance of such little tajfages of arifto. v
eratical (lander upon foine of the wor
th iefl-characters in .A merica.
' "J T would be improp r, no doubt, to
|_ drag into public view any indivi
dual, on account of anonymous publican
tintra. But these may affilf to fliew, the
d Hgeious (late of the political atmof
phcre. wuhin the ten milts square. Ever
(nice s he commencement of the pr< sent
government of America, the whol of the
executive departments have been kept in
conUaut ferment by those lit 1; paper
feuds. On the oar fide, abufet, forconli
leringthegovcmm: n- afreetepubi an fyf*
tem, under wl.i.h a» citizens they hav? aand as servants tiiey are bound, to ]
condemn whatever in their opinions, may I
appear wrong. The other, comr/Sended I
and ex oiled, for conli.lering it only as
one llep towards that abject (Ute of court- <
ly dcceit, which should render all -it* de- i
pendents base, in order to create a flind I
offecret, fafe and fnng free-matonryanion'g ;
th~ brethren erf the court. Whether any I
of these publications, are indebted to the
hand, as well as to the conduct of these
officers, for thar exi Itence, would perhaps
be improper to premise. 'It is fnfficier.t
to obft'rve, that any one less interelled, or
less capable than themselves, could scarce-
Iv have written feelingly as some of their
authots have certainly done.
As to the enmity or friendfhip of any
of these officers to the present general go
vernment of America, it is not so much the
business of this particular part of the pre - j
lent nndertaking to enquire, as it appears to
Tiave been the o jest of some of t<.ofe pub
lications to shew. It is tO' be prefiuned,
that every one is a friend to the govern
ment under which he holds an el-vated
pod, until something more, than merco >-
jctlions to the »d ninidration of it, is made
appear. Indeed, when we fee a man in
that htuation, acling thus, it only serves
to prove that something inud be really
wrong in public mt?alures, as well as that
ha has an uncommon (h;:re of virtue him
f.lf. But wh .n We (ee cthsrs, in aJimi/'ar
Situation, perverting the principles of the
government under which th-y act, by im
poling on it, things* unconllitutional and
bad, and thereby exciting general sdium
difgtid, we cannot but conclude, that they
themselves will prove the real enemies to
that government in the end. This then,
U the only proper dillin£lion to be drawn,
between the different executive depart
ments, on the score of enmity and friend
fliip to the government under which they
a«sl.
With lefpedl to aridocratical and re
publican principles, we have no difficulty
in determining where to look for them
Whether any of the publications above al
luded to, may be reckoned arrnng either
of those speculations on paper, for which
one of those great departments of govern
ment is so ienowned ; or whether either
of the officers of those departments, is an
enemy or a friend to the present govern
nicnt of Am-rlc: 1 3s H
nrtt so much the business of this digression
to enquire, as what will be the probable
i:7ue of a loose indefinite display of liber
ty, in the governments of the different
dates.
Having (hewn the tree which has al
ready produced the real fruits of enmity
to the government under whose influence
tiiey have grown, it will not be difficult to
trace the route through which the princi
ples of monarchy and aridocracy are to aid
i,i bringing it 3 deftrii&ion about By an
indifferent and loose attention to our inte
reds in the llates, we acquire naturally the
lub t of inattention to our intereds in
American affairs. The fame carelessness
;.iid indifference to our interests whi h will
, . duce a weak and indifferent legiflatuie
:n a date, will beget a trifling and incom
petent representation theie From this
cause rrviy already have arisen, perhaps,
i be (hameful praiSiice of referring so much
ciie business of the general leg'flature,
the different departments of the cxecu
branch, into whose dangerous vortex
• .ay be whirled in time, all the important
• .'.errftg of the people of America.
The governments of the dates, which
v .re formed in the hour of necessity and
inxperience, when the human paffi>ns
• i'. e; e in their highed region of resentment,
; rain It the government of Great Britain,
,-,d have never lince been corredled, may
I- considered therefore, as the (lubborn
t ">is of those evils, among which Hands
. u main sprout of knowledge (on the high
. , fertile ground) to which
: : fad recourse i 3 often had, Every
aber, who from weakness or wrong
:'plee, can be induced to tulle of this
■idden fruit, may be considered as ano
. dangerous old woman, in the great
■ i !en of our political affairs. Whether
>c weak, or whether he be base, will
natter of but little consequence to
i after he is sent. The little slate
.t, or political Satan of aritlocraey,
i r. always ready and ingenious enough
i , to make tie bell of a::y opening
i.. t may offer, to produce the fall ol
i. , .-from his primitive llate of republican
* Funding systems, excift laz's t exslujive
' • - os> & c ' &(-f or
perfection, knows but too well, on which
iide to look, for the frailties of human na- 1
ture.
It is to a good and fubflantial fydem
of po icy in the Hates only, then,' we can ,
resort for security in our congressional as- ,
fairs. The general government, excellent !
as it isiniifelf cannot produce complete 1
happiness without the alfiltance of the go !
vernments of the dates. Governments
formed on right principles in the different
dates. would certainly be the mod natural
means of introducing proper priuc;ples in
to the government of the continent. The
habit of acting in the right w3y at home,
will always' produce a p/oper conduct in
men when they go abroad. Thus the
Hates, accustomed to a proper mode of
governing themselves, will naturally give a
proper lone to the government of the
whole By (hewing a proper regard tor
the rights of-reprcfentation ourfclves, we
should convince t'nofe, who were to govern
there, that they would not go unnoticed in
sporting with the people's rights at lary;e.
In a country like this, whfre a d:tfe
rer.ee "f climate, a variety of foils, and a
j gffat difference in natural advantages,
| pto hlce all the diversities of interests that j
I can exill, no general fydem of taxation can
I pofiibjy be equal and just. One an import
in.; Hate ; another a manufacturing one ;
the third an exporting one ; a fourth
too new, too local, or perhaps too poor
to be either ; a part poffeiTid of (laves ;
another p- rt made up of tradesmen, fHher
men, and mariners; some interspersed with
a variety of glorious navigable wateis ; and
others environed with impenetrable ir.oun
tainp, wil.iernedes, and inhospitable tribes;
such a complication, in short, of Situations,
ilimates, intcrclls and the like, as renders
it impofiible that any geneial tax, which
t uds to throw the collection on the fame
article throughout,fhould he either politic,
nam alorjull ; and could only have been
thought of from the want of confidence
in the governments of the different llates
Indeed we know, that the want of confi
dence in the states, in the collection of
their quotas of the general revenue, was
among the principal causes for establishing
the general government itfelf There is
no doubt then, that the establishment of
proper (lite fyltems how, would immedi
ately throw the reflux of revenue back, to
f !;ofe in which " •» so natural it
(hould flow.
It is a mortify ingt hi pg, to both i he repre
feniativeandthereprefented, no doubt, that
the important charge,with which the one is
intruded by the other, should be transfer
red and bartered off to a third, for a part
nership in his knowledge, on little more than
half-flocks to the community at large.
Nothing but the want of confidence in
some other body, than the Secretary of the
Treasury, could ever have introduced the
Humiliating practice of referring the great
and important bufmefs of taxation to one,
who to save himfelf the trouble, might
make another transfer, if he chose, of this
tranferrable property in the people, to any
little f (lock jobber, who was able to
wield this great weapon of dellrudlion, to
deprive them of their ftnall remnant of
interell in themselves. Governments in
the llates, with whom could be intruded
the important business of determining the
mode of colleiling the taxes, would of
course, be a mod important objett, on a
general view of our intereds in American
affairs. A confidence there, would not
only dedroy the influence of tkofe, who
calculate the downfal of republicanism,
through the medium of finance, but would
dlfo quiet the a'arms of t ohers, who aid
thelt willies, by being too much accullom -
ed to view the cause of liberty, through
some of ourprefent imperfect plans of go
vernment, on the dangerous fides of licen
tioufnefs and dedru&ion."
f Inflance the celebrated Mr. Duer.
* 1
WESTERN TICKET.
The following names for representatives
to the next Congress appear on a lift for
the countiesof Washington, Wellraoieland,
Fayette, and Alleghany, in the slate of
j Pennsylvania. "We hope (fay the fra
iners of this ticket) that it will not be the
less acceptable because it treats the people
like rational being?, altho' it wants rile Sanc
tion of both Conference and committee of
i correspondence —William Findley, John
■ Sjnilie, William Montgomery, John M'
r Clain, Andrew Gregg, Moses M'Clain, Ro
bert Whitehill, John W. Kittera, Da iiel
' Heifler, Jonathan B. Smith, Peter Muh
lenberg. Charles Thornton, William Sc«tt.
The frauier.s of this ticket (continue tliey)
have btfeii guided by the following mo
tives;
In the firft place tfiuV have carefully a- j <
voided all Cincinnati knight errant?. Be- |
caut'e they conceive all who,let themselves
tip tor chieftaiiis. especially military chiefs,
are very unfnitable characters to represent
the citizens of a republic, whole distin
guishing pallion (houlcl be an ardent love of
liberty; and without equality, liberty can
not exist a moment. But every order of
patricians, knighthood, or nobility, are ab
foiutely incompatible with equality, and
therefore deftru&ive of liberty. For these
reasons the national afl'embly of France have
exterminated every veltige and emblem of
such dangerous combinations from their
country, and shall we who profefs to be
republicans, be less zealous for the preser
vation of our liberties, tliau the citizens of
a monarchy?
Can those who are pleased with such
childidi toys as the effigy of a ravenous bird,
suspended to their button hole by a bit of
blue ribbon, as a mark of diltinction from
the rel't of their fellow citizens, be fuppo
fe_d to have fouls fufficiently exalted to re
present freemen? Mr. Paine, describing a
ristocracy, fays, " It talks about its tine blue
ribbon, like a girl, and shews its new gar
ter, like a child." Put eagle for garter, and
behold the very image of our Cincinnati.
The state has tritfted its bulinefs long e
nongh to these kind of gentry ; it is time
no>.v it (hould '• put away chiidifh things."
Secondly, They have avoided as far as
they knew, all Bankers and Speculators in
the public funds, because it is their interest
to iucreafe the burthens of the people,
which we think are fufficiently heavy al
ready. Every Ami they vote, they pocket
a conliderable portion of it themselves :
This is regulating for themselves at the i
public expence '. They are both the layers {
and receivers of taxes. From this source j
has arose grievous abuses. Hitherto the !
bulinefs of Congress has been to contrive !
pretences for taxation. We would wish j
persons of principle and capacity frnt to the i
next Congress to dcrelope the fyflem a lit- j
tie, and. if poflible, (top its progress, for we j
cannot expect this from its authors and j
admirers. The funding system. the Indian j
war, the excise law, with many other j
things, are ftibjects that need revilion ; if |
they are fufrered to go on in their present
(late, their evils will accumulate.
Thirdly, They have endeavoured to fe
left characters, whose habiDs, sentiments
and (ituation. plate them on a footing with
the great mass of the people. Men who in ge
neral poifefs '* neither poverty nor riches,
but enjoy food convenient Men whose
pcrfonal interests are blended with the in
ter efts of the people they represent: Men
who are pretty well known to possess found
ui)derftanding,3iid judgments well inform
ed with pra£tical knowledge, fufficient for
every purpose of legislation, although some
of them perhaps are not connoisseurs in li
nance and stock-jobbing ; yet they are mod:
of them men of plain, honest, rural repub
lican manners, who will not afl'ent to any
ipeafure without a fufficient reason to fa
tisfy their conscience. Such persons are
molt likely to attend to the public bulinefs,
and not diflipate their time in riot and plea
sure at the public expence, while the pub
lic bulinefs is facrificing in a secretary's of
fice. Hitherto money bills, and indeed e
very other kind of bill of consequence have
originated with the secretary of the trea
furyy, a man tainted, we are informed,
with monarchical principles. This perhaps i
accounts for the analogy between our po- ;
litical tranfa&ions, and that of Britain's.—
We think Congress have held long feflions,
and decreed themselves fufficient pay to
have enabled them to do all their bulinefs
themselves.
Fourthly, They have endeavoured to
divide the members as equally as poflible
throughout the state, so that the greatest
poflible information refpe&ing its circum
stances and interest may be combined in its
reprefen'racion. This is. a prime maxim in
reprel'entative government, and ought to
have been the principal objefl of the legif
lattire in framing the ele&ion laws ; as
they have neglected it, it devolves on the
virtue of the citizens. They mult careful
ly attend to it; they ought also to inform
themselves who voted for the law as it now
ltands, and exclude them from their confi
dence forever.
If those who vote for this ticket are go
verned by the fame motives with its form
ers, they will not consult what is calied the
monied interest, the commercial interest,
the ariftocratlcal interest, the landed inter
est, not- any separate interest whatever ; the
public interest alone will be the polar ftai
by which they will steer their conduct. If
any characters in the ticket are contrary to
what the framers have fnppofed and sta
ted, they will rejoice to have it decefled.
: They have no personal attachment, are up
der no pcrfanal obligation, nor have they
, any personal expectation to gratify ; to pro
. mote the public good is their sole induce
ment, and would be happy to be corrected
by any public spirited perl'on, who they
, hope will always aliign a reason for what
. he advances; every amendment that will
give it public confidence is solicited. They
[ have laid nothing of electors for president
and vice-prelideiit. The firft theyprefume
will be continued in its present occupant,
j who will probably hold for life. The last
they apprehend is of little consequence who
' hvids it'; his bulinefs is only to be ciiairuiaw
of the senate, with aa enormous faliry,
which renders the office in a great measure
a linecure ; as the chairman does 110 more
business than the otlier members, all this
extra pay is given for nothing. Indeed it,
matters little to the public who presides iu
the fcnate ; They do not choose to let the
public know auv thing about the reasons o{
their political conduct: the public therefore
may trouble theiufelves little about (hem,
excepc it be to watch them with a Uriel
jealousy, and try to get rid of them as foo
as polfible ; it is but little good ever they
did, and but little good they can do ; but
they may do much evil; there are howe
ver valuable characters (hut up in their di
van, We (incerely with them released. —
Pennsylvania wanted a senator this lalt ses
sion ; we pray a greater evil may never be
fal her.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
PARIS, August 4.
Letter from Mr. Arthur Dillon to the National
AJfembly, dated Augvjl 2.
" Desertion encreafes among the Auftri
ans, for their soldiers are unwilling to fight
for the emigrants at a dillance from their
own country.
" At this moment, there is a violent fer
ment at Mom and Tournay. None of thfr
soldiers belonging to the camp are permit
ed to enter the city; and all the magazines
have been evacuated. I have an opportu
nity of judging, from what I fee, that the
enemy have very little confidence, as they
throw up very extensive entrenchments a\
small ports. '
| "To defend two polls of 30 men, they
j have formed abbatis of trees for half a
; league ; but this did not prevent Lieutenant
i Colonel Richardot from forcing his way
! part these two ports, sword in hand. An
1 ardour for combating, and the love of good
j order and subordination, encreafes every
j day in our army. Could we have a rein
jforcement of men,and a frelh 1 upply of
j mnlkets. there would not remain the fmall
i eft doubt of our success.
j " The enemy are carrying on a war which
will not gain them friends. They com
mitted great atrocities at Bavay and Or
chies."
M, Dillon's letter was accompanied with
a (ho/t account of the atrocities committed
by tlie Auftrians at Bavay and Orchies, by
which it appeared that they levied oppref
(ive contributions from the inhabitants,
bt at them unmercifully when they would
not labour as they required, and carried off
their public treasures, even after they h;id
promised, in the nahie of the Emperor, that
they would molest neither the persons nor
property of individuals. At Orchies they
aflaifinated seven citizens and several wo
men. They loft 400 men in the firft attack.
A French officer of the name of Baflet, a
Lieutenant of artillery, discharged a can
non sixty four times in left than a~ quarter
of an hour. After the garrison of Bavay
had retired, a hundred volunteers, who did
not know of their retreat, kept back the Au
ftrians for some time, and retired in good
order, after expending all their ammunition.
When the enemy got pofi'eifion of the
town, they indulged in every species of li
ceiltioufuefs •- a Hulan blew out the braiHs
of a citize.i while drinking his health, ano
ther-Hulan plunged his sword into the bel
ly of a woman big with child, after he had
thrown her down. He was, however, pu
nished for his barbarity by a French foidier,
who instantly laid him dead by the fide of
his victim- After the Auftrians Had made
thenifelves mailers of the place, two raw
recruits, who had left their knapsacks at
the inn where they were quartered, return
ed to search for it. The Alfembiy Trailed
at the naivette of the two recruits, but they
were much atfefted when they learned that
these poor fellows were murdered by Hu
lan?.
Aug. 6. A deputation from tlie feftion of
Mauconfeil came to decfai e to the Aflftnbly
"that the king had loft their confidence —
that they rejected him with horror—that
they conlidered him as a traitor—and that
they abjured the oath of fidelity which the
confidence they had in him had induced
them to take," They added, that a great
number of citizens, who breathed the fame
wishes, requelled to be allowed to defile
• through the hall. This petition was re
, ferred to a committee ; the twenty peti
tioners present were admitted, but the re
• quell of the others was refufed.
M. Amelotfent a letter to the Aflembly
informing them, that aflignats to the a
mount of fix millions had been burnt yes
terday, making with those formerly de
stroyed, 596 millions.
The dertination of the French emigrants
is now finally fettled five thousand underthc
prince de Conde will join the army of gene
ral Hohenlohe ; 8000 with the French prin
ces will follow the Prussians, and 4000 will
march into Barbant to reinforce ihe army
of general Clairfait. They will all be
fnbje£led to the orders of the commanders
of the refpe£tive armies, and kept as corps
de rrjirv.
Our squadron intended for St. Domingo,
under the command of M. Defbarbes, for
the purpose of enforcing the decree of
March 24th, is still at the iiland of Aix. It
conlilts of one fliip of 4 guns, four frigates,and feventeea fWinfpwfs, on beard of
•which arc eight tbourancf uien.
LfU Aug. 4, Seveiai of our de ach
xntiiti, juit returned. have h;d tkirmithes
with the enemy, in all of which the advan
tage was on our tide
An officer has received a letter
friend in the ctutre army, lifting that there
has an aci-.on near Longwy, in \vb:ch
the enemy .oil Coo men.
Ou Thurlday lait our national guards
Were all cliawii out ; the decree declaring
that the country is in danger wasprocla in
ed, and a requisition by the commanding
officer of the d.ttrkt of one man out ot fix
to join the ai my, was read. If*e may
judge from the fpiri; ot our citizens, tins
place alone will I'urnnh ijco volunteers.
Strafburgh, Aug 2. The enemy are ap
proaciii.ig Landau in considerable force.
Tlie cic.zens are making every poltible ex
ertion for the defence of the place; and
the care and attention ot" General Biron
g ve them tile oeft atinrances ot support. t
The activity and vigour of this genei ai have
given a new appearance to the deienlive
force of the department ol cheL'ower Rhine.
Lcnguiy, July 30. —Luxcmburgh, and its en
virons, are (ull of loops.' I'o-moriow, lb,coo
Piufliaiis arc to arrive at Hcyuiann, and Bouiile t
at iheir head.
There are two camps, the one befoie Atlon
above c'C'bauge, the oihei between Loiigwy
and Monin.euy, near St Fortunately
us La Fayette's army is airived, and touu
naiely too t landcu, for the enemy have tol
loA. 'd his inOnot s
He has ju<l attacked the two camps above
m*tition. ii, and was ntar taking bo.h. His fuc- .
Cels would have been complete, it three officeis
ol Anflria had not ddertrd as he put his troops
in motion. They were puilued, but elcaped
«nd ala m d the enemv,
M. La layette had occupied the Aullrian
ot Yiiton, between and.Mont
me'dy .andhad advanc d uoops towards fierce
lec topievem ihe troops in the-camp ot Reming,
be oie Luxemburg, tiom attaekmgoui city on
tbat point
He marched at nigh: fiom his camp at Yil
lers-le Ronde ; anil dil'poied hi> tiuops in two
columns. L nfouunatejy a heavy rain retarded
Ibcir match, and the three dcleite-rs gave notice
of their approach lime etiouah for the enemy
to fall back.
Our fiilf column, which attacked the camp
of St. Leigc, killed about 400 of the enemy and
took thirty coveied wagons
The other column purlu d t ie enemv to the
village of Me fancy befoie Arlon, where they
took shelter, and where we burnt the vil
lage in oider 10 diflidge them ; they had Hill a
retieat open tntoatmck wood.
A prielt killed oneofour men from a win
dow ; he was taken, ana on the point of being
put to the Iword, when !ome ot the fold:er« rc 1
minded then comrades ot discipline and ihe law,
and he was brought fafeto Longwy.
The enemy having jet ,'rated more fpetdily
in this quarter 101 l only about 80 On cut part,
M. Delmoties, Li Fayette's adjutant general,
and intimate friend, was mortally wounded.—
Our whole lo(s is only three kihed and about
twenty wounded.
The commandant of the HufTais at Mefluage
was killed, and his hjife, lupeibiy capaiiloncd,
folu ioi 1,050 livrcs.
On the evening before this action the Hulfirs
•f Chamboiant to >k ten ol the Hulaiis ; but
weloflgj on a foraging paity, one
of whom, a volunteer, wascu: in pieces at the
enemies giand guard
We have dill iS'ooo men at the camp of
Villeri-Rond. v
July X, 1. "The Aufifians are returned to their
Iwo camps, and our troeips to theiis The '■
camp of Fonteiiciy is reinforced py 400 men from
Ma ihal Lueienei's aimv. The valley of Vir
ton is the only pa l ', of the enemies country oc
cupi a by us in this qtiaitei.
'1 he 1 ticumffanees of ihe engagement, I find,
are conecil) dated 111 uiv former letter. The
regiment of Roufillpn, at the head of our firft
column, with fixed bavon ts, 011 coming
u;> with the ot ihe enemy, which accounts
sot the lolsof he Aullrians in the quartci where
the hrO column attacked. The second column
had not an oppoitunity of roming to ciofe acti
on, the enemy having moved off beloie they
came to the ground. Tne commander of the
Auflrian Hull n; wbofe borfe was fold by the
dragoon v 1.0 killed the rider, for ICSO livres,
bad the day bctore sent ail intuiting letter to
M. la Fayette.
M, la Fayette is flill a favourite with ihe army,
but the fol(licr» complain that tbey arc not led
againfUhe enfn.y.'
Wo jaw, July 1 3. —We have received accounts
here mat thePohfh army under Piince Ponia
towlKi, near Polonac, ha fullered a great loss
from the Ruffians.
On the 2' th instant, the Polifharmy, confid
ing of 25,000 men, appioachcd the Ruffians,
• vhofe numbeis we have 110 accounts of.—
t'ince poniaiowlki was jufl absent j thus the ai
niy wanted a head. The Ruffians 110 sooner
appeared, but the Pobfb National troops were
immediately ft.uck with a panic—terror aria put
to flight —Two Pol.'fh generals, either thiou h
inclination orfcar, went over to the Ruflia ■».
- A teinfoicenient of so,ooo men for this aimy
was on the march, and it it mudh apprehended
thev will meet with the Ruffians unprepared.
The loss of our defeated army confills of the
whole field equipage 49 guns, 2:7 bags ofpun
powcr, 14 -5 fireiotks, 50,000 cartridges, 24,000
sacks of flour, 5000 lacks of oats, 2500 cart loads
0/hay, ißco pieces of cloih, 470 amsiun tion
waggons, and tliecheflof war j 1745 men wsiq
killed, wounded and 1247 taken piifoncrs. j
i his aSair cofl the Ruffians nothing, lince the
Polilh aimy made no relillance.
On the 10th of July, the king and the whole
Cojpsde Rrfeivethat was encamped 111 the ad
jacent diflritls, marched, and fixed iheir camp in
ihe neighbourhood of Prague (in PolandJ on Lhe
oppolite banks of the Vifluia.
PHILADELPHIA.
September 29, t 92.
The committee of correspondence of
Philadelphia, viz. Thomas M'Kcatt, James,
Mutc/iinJ'on, Jain Barclay, A J. Dallas, Hilary
Baker, and Jared IngerJ'ol, have communica
ted, top t' ie consideration of the citizens of
thi' state, the following lilt of the names ot
all the per foils that have been mentioned,
ill th. 1 answers to their c rcular letter, a
candidates for members of Congress and
electors of a Prelident and Vice-President
of the United Siates. [N- B. Tlieor gi al
documents are elrpofited at the office of Ro
bert. Henry Duncan. E q. J
The following are t'ie names proposed to
the committee as fit perfous for reprel'ent
ing the fiate of Pennfylvan a in the Con
gress of the United States —City cj Philadel
phia., F. A. Muhlenberg, John Barclay,
Tiio'iias Fitzfinions, W illiani Bingham, Dr.
lathes Huteh iifon, fared Ingerfoll, David
Rittenhoufe; William Rawle, Jonathan D
Sergeant. County of Philadelphia, Blair M'
Clenachan. Bucks county, Nathaniel Irvine,
Henry Wynkoop. *ChrJler, Dr. John M'
Dowel!, Dr. Jos. Gartlner, Thomas Rof-,
Jofln Hannum. Lancajiir,John W. K tte
r.i. York.. Thomas Hartley. Cumberland,
Centra! William Irvine, Rob~rt White
hill. Beiks, Daniel Heiller. A'otthamptan,
Samuel Sjtgreave-, John Ar.idt. Bedford,
John Wo ds. Northumberland, Win. Mmr go- '
mcry Wijt more land Win. Ftndley. Wafliing- !
ton, Thomas Scott, James Revs, Pi elily he- |
rill, John Hoge. Fayette, John Stnilie, Albert !
(-allatin'. 1 , Isaac Meafon. Franklin, Dr. Ro- |
bert j'ohnffrin. Monry,Chal"l esThornfon, '•
Ifriel Jacob, Peter Muhlenberg, Robert
Loli ir, Jo in R chartls. Dauphin, William !
M'Clay. Miffm. Andrew! regg. Dr. James
Artir'frong Delaware, MarkVVncox.
N. H. Dr. Hutcfiinfon, Jared Ingerfoil,
Esq. James Rofs, and Albert Gallatme have
declined fervlng.
The subsequent names are proposed to '
the committee of correspondence for the
city of Philadelphia, a-, electors for the slate
of Penhfylvama, for Prelident and Vice-
Prefideni: of the United States.
City of Philadelphia. Thomas M Kean, Sa
muel Miles, Charles Bitldie, William B "ig
ham, David Rittenhoufe, Thomas Proffer,
Jonathan B. Smith, Dr. James Hutchinfoii,
William Nicho'ils, John Baker, Dr. Dai id
Jackson, Dr. Amos Gregg. George Meade,
Hilary Baker. Charles Pettit. County of
Philadelphia. William Larder, C eorge Lo- ■
gan, Blair M'Clenaclian. Bucks county, r'ran
ci Murray, James Hanna, Joieph Irvine,
John Barclay, Samuel Ogden. Ch/Jler, Wal
ter Finney. Dr. Jos. Gardner, Joseph
Strawbridge, John Ralfton. John Rofs, Jas.
Moore, James Boyd. Samuel ' vans, Rich- !
ard Downing, junior. Lavcajler, William .
A Atlee, John Whitehill, Robert Cole
man, Edward Hand. York, Henry Miller, :
Gen. James Kwing, William Read, Micha- |
el Smy'ar. Cumberland. Thomas Smith, E- [
ptira'in Blaine, John Montgomery, Samuel
Poltlethwaite, James Dunlap, J .hn Alex
ander, Jonathan Hogc. Berks, Joseph Heif
ter, Collenion Reetl, Nicholas Lutz, Jacob ;
Rush, Gabriel Heitler. Northampton, Ro- (
bert Brown, John Arndt. Bedford tieorge
Woods, jun. John Piper. Northumberland,
I Samuel M'Clay, John Boyd, Dame.l Mont
-1 gomery, Frederick Antis. Wafhmgton, Al
exander Addifon. James Rofs, David Re
d.ck. Fayette, Ephraim Dougiafs, Alexan.
der M'Clean, Isaac Meafon, Albert (ialla
-1 tin. Fianklin, William Henderfon, James
M Lene, Dr. Robe'l't Johnfton. James
j Chambers, f d ward Crawford. Montgcme
-Iry Samuel Potts, Benjamin Rittenhoufe,
j Charles Thomson, Thomas Craig. Robert
Lollar, James Morris, John Richards, Ben
-1 aram Met kiey, John Shoemaker. Dauphin,
I William M'Clay, Alexander Graydon, John
j A. Huntingdon, Andrew Hender
fon, Hugh Davifon, John Cadwallader. Al
leghany, Dr John Wilkins, Gen. John Ne
ville. Mifflin James Harris.
The person who was lately committed to
jail on i'tifpicioii of being concerned in the
murder of Elizabeth Rteves. hiving been exa
-1 mined by the proper authority, nothing ap
' peared againll him to confirm thefnfpic 1011.
jHe was accordingly discharged. It is pro-
I per therefore that the public thoukl be noti
| tied that the proclamation of the fupteme
'executive of this commonwealth remains
in force.
Altho' any number of freemen have an
undoubted right to meet as private citi
zens, and frame a ticket for Prelident, Re
prefentavives, &c. it is neverLhelef appre
hended by many, that when perfoni meet on
this buiinefs, as reprefeatatives of a coun
ty, they ought to be appointed by the coun
ty, and not feleclerd 111 a private and partial
manner to cranfact bufmeji in whi h every
citizen is ultimately concerntd. In ca e
Inch private meetings are held, as has in
many intlances been the cafe, the confer
rees ought, undoubtedly, to be confulered
1 as privatecitizensonly'—otherwife, the peo
pie have a right to suppose, that tire whole
tfuliflefs ot others affiming tin rigit tt iltti for
them is an unwarrantable encroachment cn
tne rights of freemen, abridging the liber
ties of the people, and tending to aristo
cracy.
"Our Court (fays » letter from Rich
mond, Virginia) has rejected the allowing
the recovery of old British debts, Until the
treaty isfulSllfd,by Great-Britain restoring
the Western Ports. The faying is here, Lex
them fulfil the.treaty on their part, and we
will readily do so on ours."
Gen. Meadows, the mod active of the
generals in the Englilh East India compa
ny's service during their late war against
Tippoo Saib, endeavoured to take away his
own life, upon the failure of apartizan at
tempt of some troops under his command,
in a nocturnal expedition. One piftol-loatl
of slugs which he discharged into his own
body are said to have been extracted, and
the general pronounced out of danger. A
uother account fays, that " the near pros
pect of a difadvantagedus peace with Tip
poo, after an immense expellee to the com
pany, was the real motive of the general's
attempting his own life. '• Neither would
peace have been made fofoon upon any ac
count, had not the fidelity of the Indian
allies been strongly fnfpe&ed ; and that ei
ther the exclusive pillage of Senngapatam,
or a total defeftioh from the further prose
cution of the war, was the only altei na
tive they meant to offer, in cafe that was
refuted them."
Extrad of a letterftcm Paris, dated Aug. 7.
" I'lli s ekiy will give us a prognostic of
the fate of the great queftioO which collies
011 upon Thursday, for this day the aflem
ly will decide upon the dismission of La
Fayette,. The flrength of the two parties
will be lVrlv tiied, and if M. La Fayette
ihali be difmifled, you may relt allured that
the king will be dethroned. A mail it apt
to judge as he wilhes ; but without yield
ing to my prejudices in his favor, and to
my anxiety on a measure which, perhaps,
determines the fate of France, 1 am of opi
nion, from what I fee, that they will not
be so ra(h and desperate as to dismiss him."
It is mentioned in a letter from the west
ward, that governor Blount has returned
to Knoxville. having had no success in his
negotiations with any of the Indian tribes
except the Chickefaws. The Cherokees
continue their murders and depredations
on the Cumberland settlement ; toprevent
which a much a polliblc, governor Blount
has lately ordered a proportion of the mi
litia into aJual service for nine months;
a Hep that cleai'.v proves he has terious ap.
prehenliort from his Cherokee neighbours.
It has been erioneoufly represented.
(fay a London paper) that admiral John
Paul Jones died in d stress. So far from
that he has left more than a thousand
pou ids to bed; tided between his two lif
ters, refidiiigin the north of England.
Accounts from the Miami towns {late
the numb r of host le Indians, at piefent
there aiiembled, to be about four thousand
five hundred, which is upwards of four
times the number that defeated Gen. St
Clair. This confederated force confifls of
600 Indians from Lower Canada, with bo
dies from the Hurons, Wiandots, Chippe
was, Ottowas, potowas, a few Oneidas,
Cayuga , Tufcaroras, Senecas, Shawanefe,
and the whole tribe of the Delawares.
Blue Jacket, oolhewa, and Snak'e are their
principal commanders. They were said to
be waiting in force for the approach of the
American army ; which by our last accounts
(that part of it under gen. Wayne, at Pittf
| burgh; had begun to move down the river
about the 1 cth inft.
One cannot help admiring at the strange
inconsistency of some men, who at the very
time they are themselves exercising tile pri
vilege of every American citizen, that of
communicating their sentiments to the pub
lic through the medium of the press, are so
inconsiderate as to recommend an abr dge
ment of that privilege 111 others. Can fucli
really ftippofe that the objects of the late
war are forgotten ; or do they persuade
themselves, that the stale fneakmg cry of
the government being in danger is to relt rain the
freedom of diicutiing its measures? A wri
ter in a daily paper warmly patronizes
your patlive obedient doctrines in politics :
and gravely recommends that the means of
doing mifchief may be with-Acid from men whole
feiitiments he does not like ; as much as to
fay, I>o not furnilh certain printers with
your sub cription*, good pubiic, and then
we lhall soon have every press in America
frecifely to our own liking I
Travjlations from the Ley den Gazette, to July t).
Madrid, july 4. —" The principlesof moder
ation that form the basis of the Count d'Aranda's
ndmimltrauon, are unfolding themselves as fafl
ajgo6d policy will admit. Count Florida Blan
ca bore fu<ch an inveterate hatred to every
■thino lhat was French, 'hat even their most mo
derate newfpa; ers were piohibited to Spain ;
and under bis influence, ii feemcd to be ihe with
ol the government that every newspaper in the
world Ihould be under the lame reserve as the
Viadrid . in which there is never a Cn
gle woid mentioned of the present affairs of
France, as if an hifloriin of ihe times could sup
press ai bis pleasure the mod memorable events
of the present age. These jealous Spaniards
seem not to have reflefled that a prohibition of
this kind is leally prejudicial to commerce,
which is the pole star of all political fpccularion
111 a commercial country the circulation of news
Ihould be perfectly free, and »ith»' Spiia has
Qot much foreign trade of her own, it li'a» Vrti u
injury done to her fubje&s not to let tbt m know
what the wo: Id is about."
Brujf'ls. July t2.-»-Since the French have re
pofliUcd their old encampments, and have adopt- i
ed iheii formidable plan of defence, nothing ot a
very important nature has pafli d between our
troops and theirs. Frequent Iki 1 mifhes are all
that happen, which every day bccome mora
bloody item the increaling animosity of both'
parties. On the Bth a large body of Uhlcns ia
pursuing some French Pattols to Queivrain,
were attacked byafquadron of cavalry. The
engagement was desperate and bloody, but the
Auflrians were obliged to retire, with a very con
(iderable loss, bt»fi<ies losing a number of pri
fonni. The loss of the Frcnch was likewifc
conlidera'ole.
Atanjuez, July 3. —We have nothing new
here of a political nature. The public attenti
on has been engaged in the fending up a balloon
the day before yefierday, under the conduct and
dire ion of M Baretti, who was embarked
therein. W hen the balloon was beginning to al
cend, and had attained to a final] height, the
philosopher was seized with a giddineft in the
head, fell to the ground ar.d bioke one thigh
and two of hii libs. Our new minifier. Count
D'Aranda seems to have but little influence ia
the interior politics and domeflic adminiftratioa
of the kingdom. It is owing to him however
that civil liberty is upon a better footing than
under his piedeceflor. Perlecutionsagainfl the
French residents are at an end ; a {Irifl impar
tiality of conrtutt towards all (itangeis is adopt
ed, and there is a certainty that Spain will not
join the league of armed powers —M. d'Aranda
may ptrrfue his fyflem ot moderation with the
less interruption, as the management of foreign
affairs is eutrufled wholl, to hiscaie, and he ts
at 1 beity to ast towaid France to the belt of
his judgment for the mutual good of the two na
tions. In conformity to this plan, tho
french are now admitted to a (hare in the ne
gro (lave trade to Cuba, Porto Rico, and Aiaens.
It it probable however that the want of negroes
more than regard to the French, has occalioned,
the opening of this trade.
Irankfjrt, July 5.-This day et 1 P.M.
Francis the firft, King of Pungary, was pro
clamed Kmperor, under the title of Francis the
second. &c.
BrvJJ'ls, July 19 —The French have at length
so far studied their own true intetcfts as to te-
Ari6t their plans in future to the guarding of
their own country, and aftingthe Best of hor
nets to whoever attacks them. This was ori
ginally Marshal Rochambeau's fyftcm ; and it
would have been better for the Frcnch if they
had adhered to it, and not ralhly declared war
against the house of Austria.
Leyden, July 25.—1t has been an observati
on, by no means ill founded, that the French
when attacked on their own ground, know well
how to defend themfclves 10 the belt advantage.
This was amply p'ovtd in the failureol the at
tack ot the Aullrian General Latour upon Or
chid. The object of this a'tack was to cap-*
tuie a French detachment that lay in this garri
son, in which the Auflrians totally failed, b&-
fide loling many soldiers, and among the of
ficer- M. C eiger, captain of artillery, vhofe life
was more worth than the whole ganifon an hun
dred times over. The number of Auflrians
thai came to the attack was one thousand. The
place was defended by 50 men of a regiment,
50 dragoons, and 500 soldiers.
July 26. —The million of Mr. JenkinfoD,
lon to Lord Hawkefbury, to Coblentz, has oc
calioned much speculation here. It may be re
eollefted, that about the time the Jacobine par
ty in France became maflers of the executive,
as well as of the National AfTetnbly, and the ir in
fluence cause 1 a declaration of war against Au
ftiia, I.otd Elg it) was sent to BrulTels with pro
posals of accommodation between the two pow
ers : it is ftnee known that his million was to
have been extended to Vienna, but by this rup
ture it wa« prevented. There is no doubt but
I ngland, who declares herfelf perfectly neutral,
has all along meant to inteifere as mediatref at
the moment when France Ihould be attacked by
the combi oed forces. That moment, wc sup
pose, (he now thinks near at hand, and has there -
foie dispatched Mr. Jenkinfon to offer his con
ciliatory ptopofitions to the FVench princes at
Coblentz ; or more probably at Maycnce, con
iideiing that is to be the place of interview with
the new Emperorand the king of Piuffia.
To the Editor of the National Gazette*
S I R,
THE following Ticket will, it is believ*
ed, receive a firm and fuccefsful support
from all the friends to the Republican in
terelfs of America, in every part of the
State. Let the names, irdeed, be consider
ed with candor, and there can be little dan
ger in coiitrafting them with those, which
a felf-created board of conferrees will en-*
deavour to palm upon the people.
Charles Thomson,
William Findlev,
Frederick A. Muhlenberg,
William Montgomery, (of North
umberland)
Daniel Heiftcrj
Juhn Smilie,
William Irv'ne, of Cumberland
Peter Muhletlberg,
Jonathan D. Sergeant,
Andrew Grefg,
Thomas Hartley,
John W. Kitten,
John Barclay.
The Printers throughout the (fate
quelled to publish the above ticket.
Sept. »6< A W H I Q,ADVICE TO the LADIES,
Not to neglect the Dentist#
SINCE time tod soon the race of man impairs
And age comes on with all its pains &
Why then, by nature fubjes to decay,
Ah ! why invite what arc mig-bt long delay ?—
Foe to the bloom of health, neglett and flcth
Corroded the ivory of the lovclieit tooth,
And that coarse breath, where every tweet might
dwell,
Tempts the nice beau to flight his careless belle,
And think no loriger 'tis his heaven to sip
Love's draft of pleulurc from the darn .ilk lip.
The Dentist's care, bright maids, can fhicld
from harms
.And to your kisses lend a.thousand chaims,
Stffe from the ilfs of tortftre and decay
Love there would perch, and all his flames
display—
Low at their shrine more constant lovers fall
Who leave not nature to acconrjlifh all—
Revere that art which thus prevents your pain,
Which ages past have -fought, but fought in vain i
So ihail,your lovers to their oaths be true,
And, years elaps'd, each beauty still be new j
While she, who proudly would all art despise,
And trusts alone the conquests of her e>cs,
Too fyon behoHs her wonted influence loft,
Negle&ed wit, and love congeal'd to froft j
Jn vain her rcugt the mask of health restores,
No more the lover sighs, the slave adores j
Insulting piudes no more a rival fear,
But cruel whispers thus insult her ear :
In Love's bright circle, üby Jhould tbey be seen
Whoje tootbl'fs charms encroach on gay fix teen t
Sept. 24.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
FUNERAL of ADMiR AL J. PAUL JONES.
Letter from Col, Black Jen to Ibe National Affcmb!y t
July 19.
*' Mr. President,
<f I announce to you, that Admiral Paul Jones
died last evening rn Paris: that the American
minister has ordered the.perfjn at whole house the
Admiral lodged, to caufc him to be interred in
the most private manner, and at the least
expence—This person, on account of the fot
ma!i ies still exiting relative to protestants,. founo
it necefTary to apply to a commiffdry. He has
done it j and M. S'moneau, the commissary, ex
presses his afto »ifhment at the order given by the
n/iniftei, and fays, that a man who has rendered
the most signal services to France and, America
ought to have a public funeral. He adds, that if
Ameiica will not pav the cxpencc, he will pay it
ftimfeif. The friends of the Admiral wait 'the
orders of the afl.embly refpe&ing the mode of in
terment."
(Signed) 5. BLACKDEN,
Late Co % cml in the fer*uice of the United States,
After hearing the letter, the aflembly Ordered,
that ? deputation of twelve members Should aliili
at the funeral of Paul Jones. The. next day this
tieputauon, preceded by two huiftiers, and escort
- «d by horse-guards, came 10 the houie of the pe
ceafed, and at leven o'clock the funeral procelli<jn
moved f.om the hpufe in the Rue Tonfon, puffed
the Pont Neuf, entered tha street rhat leads to St.
liuHaehe, pafied on. to the Bv>ulevar«Je bv the rue
St. Martin, and, at the end of an hour and a half,
arrived at the place of fepuJturev '1 he body be
ing depofued, M. Marron* a Proteflant minister
cf Paris, pronounced the foWowiflg discourse s
" Legiflatort, citizens-, Soldiers, brothers and
/riends,Wc have just reftorecj 10. the earth the re
licks of an iHuftriotis stranger, one of the fi*ft he
roes of American liberty—of that liberty which
was the glorious prelude to our own. The Semi
jamis of the north had drawn him tq her ttand
*rd : but Paul J >nes could not long breathe ihe
imprisoned air of uefpotifm, He preferred the se
renity of a private life,'in the free kingd/m of
N Prance, to all the titles and pretended honours
that Catharine could lavifli upon him from the
throne of usurpation. The fame of the brave fur
lives the ftr'oke of death his inheritance is im
mortality ! What homage more flattering can
we under to the memory of Paul Jone-s, than to
swear upon his tomb 44 to live free Or die ?" It is
the full deie-minatiyn, it is rhe united voice of all
good Frenchmen, that tyrants and.tbeir infamous
abetto>« thai! never fully tliis sacred land.
While the enjoyment of an undi,fturbed repose
5s here allotted to the ashes of thac great man,
who, impatient to be free, has too soon quitted
the Ipciety of men : let his example teach p.ofteri
ty to what sublime efforts the hatred of oppression
may inspire an elevated: foul ! Brothers and
Friends, a generous emulation sparkles in . your
eyes j your moments are precious—the country 'n
in danger. W!jo among us wuuld not pourou l
his blood for her defence ? Be partaker?, then in
the of Paui Jon?s } imitate him in that
contempt of danger, that noble Heroism, which,
after having astonished the present generation,
lhall remain the unchangeable objedt of venerati
on for ages to come."
The American minister could not attend the
funeral ; as he had some persons to dine with him
on that day*
Additional Declaration by his Most Serene High
ness the/eigning Duke of Brunfwick ana Lu
uenburgh, addrefled to the inhabitants of
France.
THE Declaration which 1 have addrefled to the
inhabitants of France, dated Quarters General, at
Coblentz, July 25, must have fufliciently maoe
kwown the firm refjlves of their majeflies the
emperor and the king of Pruflia, when they en
trusted me with the command of their combined
armies-—The liberty and the fafety of the facreo
persons of the king, of the queen, and of the roy
al family, being one of the principal motives
which have determined their imperial and royal
majesties to a£l in concert ; 1 have made known,
by my said the inhabitants of Pa
lis, my resolve to infiift on them the most .terri
ble punishments, if the least insult should be of
fered to his molt christian majesty, for whom the
city of Paris is particularly rclponlible. i
Without making the least alteration in the 8cl»
article of the said declaration of the 25th instant,
I declare, besides, that if, contrary to all expec
tation, by the perfidity or baseness of some inha
bitant! 6( Paris, the king, the queen, or any
other persons of the royal family, Ihould be carri
ed off from that c.ty, all the places and towns
wbatfoever, which shall not have opposed their
raH age, and fliall not have stopped their proceed
ings, ftiall incur the fame piinilhmcnts as those
inrfifled'on the inhabitants of Paris j and the
route which shall be taken by those who carry oft
the king and royal family, shall be marked
with a lerics ofexemplary punishments, juilly due
to the authors and abettors of crimes for which
there is no remission.
All the inhabitants of France in general are to
take warning ot the dangers with which they are
threatened, and which it will be impoflibie for
them to avoid, unless they, with all their m'gnt
and bj every means in their power, oppose the
.>aflageof the king and royal family, to whatever
place the fa£tipiis may attempt to carry them.
Their imperial and royal majesties wi.l not allow
any place of retreat to be the free choice of his
most chiiftian majesty (in cafe he llnuld comply
with the invitation which has been made) unless
1 hat rcirear be cfte£ted under the escort which Iras
been offered.
All the declarations whatever, which flialjbc
made in the name of his most christian maiefty,
which shall be contrary to the object which their
imperial and royal majesties hav; in view, fhali
bd confiiered as null and without effect.
Given at General Quarters, at Coblentz,
July 27, 1792,
Charles Guillaume Ferdinand,
Due oe Brunfwick Lunenuurg.
Pi ices Cur rent at Philadelphia»
[Dollars equal to 100 cents.]
ASHEb Pot per ton 90 Dols. to 100 d
A Hies Pearl 137 — — 140.
Uacon flitches per lb. 7 cents.
Bacon shoulders — 6 do.
Bees wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27.
Brandy, Coniac, pergl. j do). 20 c.
Brandy, common, 1 doJ.
3utter, in kegs, per lb. 9 c. to 10.
'»eef, Burton, per barrel 'jd to 8d«
Country ditto 6d to 7J.
CoaJs, per bufhcl, 20 c. to 22
Coffee, per 10. iS to 19 c.
Cotton, per- lb 26 c. to 40
Checfe, country, per lb. 8c to IOC.
■ English 19c.
Chocolate, 17c to 18c.
Codfifh, per ».wt. 3d. jjoq..
Cortfkge, American, pel cwt. 7'd 6~c. to Sd.
Duck, English No. 1. per yd. 2"Bc.
1 Cent less for every number
Ruflia, per bole lid. 33c. !
Djtch fail duck, iSd. to 2od.
Sail cloth, Boflon No. 1. per yd. 30c*
'• iaxfeed, por bush. 85c to 90c.
Fiax, per lb. 11 to 12 c.
Flour, lupeifine, per barrel, sdol. 13 c.
Common, 4 dols. 67 c«
Burr middlings, belt, per brl. 4d.
Meal Indian 2 dols. 52 c.
Rye 2 dols. 40 c.
Sni'lp ftuff, per cwt, So c. to 1 dol.
Gin, Holland, per cafe, 4 dols* 67 c.
Ginfehg* per lb. 20 c. to 24
Grain, barley, per bushel, 90 c.
■ ■ — best shelled, per lb. 3c.
Buck-wheat, per bushel, 40 c.
Jndian corn, 50 "c. Oats- 3 sc. pr. bush.
Rye 47c, Wheat 93c.
Herrings, per barrel 3d.
Hoops, hogfliead, per M. 33d.
— * r- Bartel*, 7d to Bd.
Hams, per lb. 8 c. t« 9
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67c.
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, r2w, per lb. 9c. to 11
indigo, Carolina, per lb. idol, to 1 dol. 10 c.
iron, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
Castings 1 per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nail-roda per ton 96 dols.
Pig, per ton', 24 dols. to 26 dols. 67 C.
Sheet, per ton, 173 oqls^33 c.
Leather, foal, per lb. 14c. to 17c. 20c.
Logwood per ton 240.
La;d, h.gs, per lb. 9 c. to 10
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
in pigs, 5 dols. 33 c. to 5 dols. 67 c.
Red, 6 dols. 40 c. to t dols. 67 c.
White, 10 dols. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Mackerel, best, per bbl.-gd.
Madder, best, per 10. 16c# to 2CC.
Myrtle wax per lb.' 16 c.
Molafii s, per gal. 44 -c. to 50
Nails, 8d rod. lid and 200. per lb. ioc«
Nutmt-gs, per lb. 7 to 3. dollars
Oil, Linseed, per gallon, 65 to O7 c.
-Olive, 87c.
per Cafe id. 50c.
Sweet best in balkets, 72 bot. jd.
30 flafks, in boxes jod 50c. •
Spermaceti, per gal. 48c.
Trajn 24c. to 27c.
—Whale, 24c. to 26c.
Pepper, per lb. 37c •
Pimento, 16 c.
Porter pfcr c.ifk, 3d. 33c.
Porter, London, per dozen, 1 do!. 60 Ct
American, do. j d. 4 to c.i d. 60 C.
Pitch, per'barrel, idol. 73 c. to 2 dols.
Pork, Burlington, perbarrd, I idols to 11 d 33c.
Lower County, do. 10 dols.
Carolina, do. 9 dols.
Raisins, Mufcatella, per box 3d.
Jar do. per jar 2d. 50c.
-Sun do. per keg 9c!..
Rice, per 112 lb. 2 dols. 50 c. to 2 dol. 67 c.
Rosin, per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 d 015.67 c«
Rum, Antigua, per gallon, j dol.
Barbadoes, do. do. 83 c.
New-England, &c. 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. j8 c. to id. 22 C.
Windward Island, 83c.
Salmon, per bb!. 6d. 50c. to 7d.
Scantling, heart, pei M. 23d. 33c.
——————Sap, Bd. to Sd 67c.
Shingles, 18 inch, oer M. 2d. 33c. to «d Gjh
> 2 feet, j} 33c* to 6
— 1 ■■ ■ 3 feccjdreffcd, 13d. to jjd,
Salt, (Allum) per tufliel, 24. to 27 c.
Cidiz, 2310246.
Lilb-jfi, • 25 to 27 c.
Liverpool, 29 c.
Skins, Deer, in hair, per lb. 20 to 30 c.
Red, ditto, - ■■ ■26t033 c.
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
Sugar, Havanna, white, per lb. 17 to iS c.
Brown, per lb. 11 to 12c.
Muscovado, par cwt. 13 d. to j 5 d.
Lump, per lb. 24 c.
Loaf, finale rcllaed, 26 c.
Loaf, double clitto, 36 c.
Tallow, reined, per lb. 9 c.
Carolina, new, 2 dots. 7'c. to 3 do s.
Carolina, old, 2 dols. 7 c to 3d ol
Tar, New-Jersey, 24 gal. to the brl. 1 d >i. I
Carolina, 32 gal. 1 dol. 53 c. to 1 dol. 67 c.
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. 67 c. to 2 dois.
Tea, HyTon, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
Hylon Ikin, 53 c. to 67
50 e. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohca, 31 c. to 33
Tobacco, jamcs Riv«r, best. per cwt. 3 dols. 60
to 3 dob. 73 c.
Inferior, 2 dols. 67 c. to 3 dols.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 2 dols. 50 c. to 3 dol
Coloured Maryland, 5 di. 33 c. to S d
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, 2 dols. 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dols. 23 c«
Wine, Madeira, per pipe, 176 dl. to 226 ul. 67c.
Liibon, - 120 to 126
Tenerifie, pei gal. 63.
Fayal, • 52
"Port, per pipe, 1 j 3dol. 33 c.
Sherry, per gal. 90 c. to id. 20c.
— —wanini.nn limnmajm——iam
SOCIETY FOR ESTABLISHING
USEFUL MANUFACTURES.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Stockholder:
of the Society Yor eltablifhing uleful manu
laciures, that the annual ele&ion for Dircdlois o.
the said society will be held at the Courthouleir
New Ark in the county of fcflex on the firtt Man
da. in O&obcr nrxt, between the hours oftweivt
and two in the afternoon orthefame day»
A.MMERCErR r Deputy Go\ernor.
New-Ark Juiy, 17th 1792.
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. Oswald,
(Price Eleven Pence)
FIVE letters,
addrefled to the
Yeomanry of the United States:
CON I AINING some Observations on the
Scheme'of Governor Duer and Mr Secreta-,
i y Hamilton, to establish National Manufaflures ,
by a FARMER. This pamphlet, fo.highiv'in
terefting at this period, may be had at the follow
ing places .• ac Mr. Ol'wald's Printing Office, No
156, Market-street ; at No. 209, Market- fired;
at Mr. Dobfon's, 41, South Second-ftreer; at
Mr. C-ukfiianks, 91, Market-Greet-; at Mr,
Aitken's, 22, Maiket-ftreet; ?nd at Mr. Young's
S. W. coiner of Che/out and Second-streets.
August 2i.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale by the Printer,
JohnM'Culloch, at No, 1. North Third-
Street, and by most of the Book-
Sellers in this city,
(Price 3/9)
MODERN CHIVALRY:
Containing the
Adventures of Capt. John Farrago,
and
Teague O'Regan,
his Servant.
VOLUME 11.
By H. H. BR AC KEN RIDGE.
Quicquid agunt Han.ines, nojlri, Farrago libelli.
J uvena
PLANS
OF THE CITY OF WASHINGTON.
FOR SALE BY
MtSSRS. Dobfon, Young, Crukihank, and
Carey, itj this city,
Sept. 15. g t .
PUBLIC REPORTS
from the
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
CF THE
GoVERMENT of the UITED STATES
TO
CONGRESS,
Ccmmencin ivtth the present Government, and end
ing with. the close of the Sejfion of May, ijj2.
1 HIS vork is intended to be printed in one
J volume otlavo, eflimated to contain between
five and fix hundred pages, jnd will be 'deliver
ed to fubfciibers in boards at One Dollar and a
half.
A complete' colleflion of the Reports into a
I convenu nt and portable volume hasbbeen fug-
<0 the pubhfhers by several members of
| Congrcfs and other gentlemen, and they arc now
determined to proceed on with the work, provi
ded a competent number of fubfenbets appear
to pationize the undertaking.
Subfcriptior.s are received by CHILDS and
SW'AINE, the publifhfts, No. 809 Market
ftreet, Philadelphia, and by the piincipal Book
iUlwsjH the Uaiisd Stats*,. May 24, .
FOR SALE,
ABOUT ico,ooo acres of Land, lying near
\y hi left own, in the slate of New-Yoik, ore
the-worth fide ot the Mohawk river, adjoining
NobJeborough, and will be fold either in parcels
or together, as may suit the purchasers.
N. B. Ihe above tradi of land is of the firft
quality in the (late, chiefly timbered with beach
and mapfc, well watered, and contains many mill
feats. 1 he peculiar advantages of this tract, iiru
ated within a few roilej of Wnireftown (which
contains upwards of fiv-e thousand inhabitants)
with an easy and convenient water carriage to
Scheneftidy., Albany, and New-York, make it an
objedt for any persons inclined to fettle it, and ren*
der it an extreineiv advantageous purchase for
persons inciineo cc» realise their money in land of
an encreafing value. The whole tra& or any part
of »r, will be fold very low for ca/h, or for par IT
cafli, and the remaining payment# at distant peii
»ds. Enquire at No. 219 Qo< ei-ftieet, near the
Fl/-market New. York.
July 19.
Society for ej}ab/i/bing ufeful Manufactures,
NOTICE is hereby given to the holders of
frock iathe /aid focietj, that the fyJlpwiag
arrangement has beon made by the Deputy Go
vernor and DiYe&ors thereof, by a resolution of
he eighteenth day of May,. 1792.
The second inffal merit for the payment of (hares
in the flock of tius jjciftt/» may be made in the
following manner, viz.
1 he amount of the said second inflalment, be*
ing 20 13 • joo dollars each fh'are, may be paic in
three payments, on condition that tbe lawful
• exeft oI 7 per cent, per annum, be calculated
and pa'd with each proportionate part of the fa»4
1 pajitient, that is to iay, on or before the thir
teenth day of Aujguft next, the fuin of 6 71-100,
with the addkio.n of 12 cents, being the interest
of one month on 20 *3-100 dohars—on or be
fore the 13th of September next, the sum of 6
ii-ico Collars, with the addition of 8 cents, be
ng the interest for one month cm 13 42-100 d:;U
ars—and on or before tile 13th of October next,
the sum of 6 71-100 dollars, with the addition of
4 cents, being me interest on the fame for one
month. ' The said pa\mtfuti are lobe made at 1 lie
following places, viz. In the city of Philadelphia,
at the bank of the United States—at
wick, in New-Jcrf-jy, to John Bayard, or John
NeiWbn, Llqis—and in the city of New-York, at
the bank of New-Yoik, or either of the said
places, which may be convenient to tlie
rtock holders.
By order of the dire&ion,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerk.
J u| y 2 4- t f.
Terres a Vendre
I Dans un pa'i's bicn peuple\-—
Q AVOIR, foSxante cinq mille, trois c; ns, foix
-1 ante ct quatoize sLres, en une feale piece,
dans le canton le mieux p<-uple de la Caroline Me
ridional tC Difttid de Ninety.Six. Ces terrej
font fituces dans une contrce agreable, et ialubre,
°u les Sevres font i^iconnues } a environ vintjt Jieue#
oe Colombie, la Capltale, et continues ala vill*
dc Cambridge, dii il y a et Cour fuperi
eure. A environ douze iieuej., il y a l*v>nne navi
gation jet il eft trcs probi;>ie, que dans queique
cems on r<-n.dra navigdhie le'Xjrand Saiude, riviere
qui arrcfe les<erres me;nes. Eiles font agrcabie
meht di vesTifiees de coteaux et vallons
•propres a ia culture du tabic, du coton, du mais,
et du petit grain jet dont une tion confi ier
able fe pent tir en prairies ferti es.
II n'eO peut-eire guercs poffib.e de rencontrer uns
parpille piece de terre a vendre dans aucun autre
desEtatJ Unb 5 et pour les conditions de i'achat,
on les fendra tres commodes.
§'in former a I'impaimerie- de la Gazette Na
tional. Sept. 5.
LANDS for SALE,
IN a well fettied Country. SIXTY-FIVE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
bEVEN'i V FOUR JCRES OF LAND, in one
body, in the most populous part of the. state of
South-Carolina, in thcdiliric! of Ninety-fix---It
is situated in a fine luaithy climate,free from fever
& ague } abonC lixty miles from Columbia, the feat
of government. The land.is contiguous to the
town of Cambridge, where are a seminary for the
inftrutlio.n of youth, and a superior law court. It
is at pre/ent within abut thirty-five miles ofgood
navigation, wim a prbbab lity of f.aving the river,
cal eo the Great SaJuoa, tiiat fl >wj along one fids
of the land, made nav:gable. The land ia beauti
fu!ly Jivcif.fi J i;ito l.velii a.id vales, and is per
ft-Clly wIII calculated f.ir tbp culturk of tobacco,
cotton, Indian cjrp, and f-nall grain; a "reat
pioptirtiojj of it may be made meadow ground.
1 he. e IS no;, peihaps, luch'a body of land, focii.
c.imftanced, fjr f.ile in an_y other of the U; States.
T:.e terms of payment'*'/;!! be made conv-nieat ta
the purchase/or purchafeis. Apply to the Printer.
Augult zg. jawtf
Gtcrrgt Tnwn, June 2, 1772.
ANL t M!IEI<. u[ LOTS iu every situation
jv.iicli may h«delired in the city of Waflr
ington, will be offered for fa!e, by the Commif
lioners on Monday the Bth day of Oftjber next.
O-ie fourth part of the "purchase muney to be
paid down, the refulue in three equal annual pay
ments, with yearly interest on the whole princi
pal unpaid. JOHN M. GANTT,
July 25. Clerk to the CommiiTionerj. 4}
* * Three har.dfome Editions tf the Laws
of lb: United v fates for sale at this office
(No. 209 Market Jlreet) in folio and oda
vo, either full or half boui.d—N.B. Ths
L.nws of the lajl Sefjton, in olavo only, may
be hadfej-arats, print three eighth of a dollar,
PRINTED Br
CHILDS AND S WAINE,
AT OFFICE NO. 209, HIGR-STA££T a
FEAR FIFTH- STR EE T |
* ff U A P * L P HI A«