[Numb. 15 of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, December 19, 1792.
The following address from the society oj
Quakers for Pennsylvania, New jferTey,
Delaware, and part of Maryland and
Virginia, wis read in Congress on the
19* Aof November.
To the President, Senate, and House of
P-cprefentatives of the United States.
The address of the people called Quakers-
IT was the exhortation of the Apostle
Paul, that supplications, prayers, in
terceflions, and giving thanks, be made
for all men ; for kings and for all that
arc in authority, that we may lead a qui
«t and peaceable life, in all goodness and
honeitv, for this is good and acceptable
in the light of God our Saviour," con
formable whereto, our mind 3 have been
brought into a religious concern, that the
rulers of this land may pursue such mea
sures as may tend to the promotion of
the peace and happinefa of the people.
We are sensible that the Lord's judg
ments are in our land, and being deeply
affe&ed at the diitreffed fituatioa of the
frontier inhabitants, we desire a solid and
careful enquiry may be madeintothecaufe;
and are firmly persuaded that if the coun
sel and dire&ion of the Holy Spirit is
waited for and followed, the divine blef
ling will crown the labours of those who
Uprightly engage in the work of peace.
The disposition which has appeared in
the government to promote pacific inea
fureawith the Indians, hath we believe
been generally acceptable ; and as it is
conftftent with our religious principles,
so it has been our uniform care to ad;no
nifliand caution our member* againlt fet
tling on lauds which have not been pur
chased of the original owner; and as far
as our influence extends, we mean to
maintain this our ancient testimony invio
late, which from experience has been
found effectual to the pretervation of
peace with the natives, who, with great
hospitality, cherilhed and afiifted our
forefathers in their early settlement of
this country.
We feel cautious not to move out of
oar proper line, but being interested in
the welfare of this country, and convinced
■of the expedience of further endeavours
being used to encourage the Indians to
come forward with a full reprefentalion
and statement of their grievances, and
that every just cause of uneasiness in their
minds may be fully investigated and re
moved : we apprehend it our duty
again to address you on this affe£ling
and important occasion ; under a belief
that nothing (liort of flridt jullice will
ever be a balls of solid and lading peace.
We refpe£tfully submit these things to
your serious confederation ; earnestly de
iiring that through the influence of di
vine wisdom in your councils, you may be
made inltrumental to prevent the further
effufion of human blood, and that the in
habitants may long enjoy the blefiing of
a righteous government.
Signed in and on behalf of a meeting
appointed to represent our religious
society in Pennsylvania, New-Jer
sey, Delaware, and part of Mary
land and Virginia, held in Philadel
phia the 17th day of the nth month
1792.
Here follows a lift of the signers* names.
Fir the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
EVERY good citizen of a govern
ment really, and not nominally republican,
will not only carefully avoid countenan
cing monarchical innovations of a more
serious natute, but even those apparent
trifles, which at firfl view might be
thought innocent and harmlefs fc Birth
day-odrs may in monarchies be proper
enough, where the people have, from their
infancy, been taught to look upon the
monarch to te every thing, and then»felves
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
little or nothing ; but in a republican go
vernment, plain, pure, and leverely Am
ple, these productions when addrefled tc
individuals in office, ought to bs consider
ed as fraught with the molt dangerour
consequences to the interests of focia)
man, and fatal in their tendency, as be
ing produdtive of monarchical ideas and
propensities in the people, and therefore
to be discouraged as much as po'Tible by
the friends of rational and equal liberty.
It it certain (at leafl if I may depend
upon the information of a young gentle
man of my acquaintance) that four or
five of these productions are al eady up
on the anvil (fame of them hammering out
into pindaric) to commemorate a certain
day not very far diitant ; and which, it is
said, are to make their appearanca in a
certain pompous gazette, well recolledtea
upon several similar occasions to have
been all on a foam with high-toned pro
ductions of the fame nature ; without the
authors of such pieces knowing or caring
whether these things were acceptable or
not to the venerable chjradter, to whom
meant to be applied—or, perhaps, without
Mice reflecting or enquiring, whether the
pieces al udetl to would not altogetherbe
odious, deteitable, and disgusting.
Persons catching at every occasion to
afFer the incense of adulatiou ought al
ways to be fufpedted offinijler dejign ; and
that fame favourite point to carry, not ad
miration of the per/on or his character, is
their real motive for offering it. Pity,
that every one would not pay due respect
Lo the dignity of human nature in his own
person ! —there would then be neither
laves nor tyrants —It would be well, alio,
if the people of all nations would remem
jer, and pradtiee the advice given in the
J lay called the School for Standal, by one
if the charadters—" I tell you what,
Charles—tliis is a d—d ftraiigc world, and
je afrured, and you will one day confcfs,
;hal the fewer people we lavish excelfive
praifss on, the bettir."
G. G.
From the American Daily AdverTl.
ser of lajl Monday.
Mr. Dunlap,
IN reading over the law of the National
Legiilature, suspending, for t!ie term ol
:wo years, the operation of the limitation
aws passed by the Congress of 1785, and
1787, I find a moll pitiful,fhamefuland no*
'orious violation of the molt solemn and in
:erefling contracts and engagements evei
entered into by any government on earth;
apon the performance of which, 011 the
part of the patriot eontradtees, the eftab
lilhment and exiltence of that very go
vernment solely depended, and which it is
conceded, on every hand, by the late a
well as the present government, that they
faithfully and fuccefsfully performed ; and
that they have been almost the onlyTuffet -
ers by the revolution, no one, [ trust, wil
be so 101 lto a sense of jultice and truth
as to deny.
After acknowledging the justice, am'
admitting the propriety of liquidating ant
adjulling the fair and equitable claims or
the public, which have not been fettled
and decreeing in express and unequivoca
terms, " that every officer, (of course of
ficers of every denomination is clearly un
derltood) soldier, artificer, sailor, anc
marine, having claims for perfonil service*
rendered to the United States, in the mi
litary or naval departments, who fiiall ex
hibit the fame for liquidation at the Trea
sury of the United States, at any time
during the aforefaid term, lhall be en
titled to an adjustment, and an allowance
thereof, on the fame principles, as if the
fame had been exhibited -within the terms pre
scribed by the aforefaid limitations." Here
then, after this much laboured clause,
vaunting of jultice, ulhers in the following
unjutt, inconfiftcnt; and undignified provi-
so : " That nothing thereirf shall be con
ft rued to extend to claims for rations o
subsistence-money." I a(k were ration*
& subsistence-money not a part of the pub
lie contrail, as well as the immediate pay:
Were these not given in lieu of greatei
pay? And is thi3 not the cafe with al
armies of whatsoever nation, even our owr
present army not an exception ? Where
these are not supplied, an equivalent in mo.
ney is allowed by all nations we are ac
quainted with. And why, then, in tin
name of common sense, should not thai
part of the late public contradl be as lion
orably discharged as any other ? Glarino
inconliaency ! Is it not difgraceful, and
does it not throw the moll dilhonorablc
reflections on our government, to violate
a solemn contra#, a sacred engagement.
For so trifling a pittance, which in private
ife would be spurned and hilTed at ? Be
sides, it is a daring infringement of the
ronftitution (the only barrier we have far
aur rights and liberties) as well as a vi
olation of the public contradl. For the
present government was adopted with the
lole view of establishing juftiee ; and a
:laufc thereof secures and confirms to eve
ry citizen his right, and expressly declares,
:hat—" all debts controlled, and engage'
meats entered into, before the adoption of the
fami, Jhall be as valid a vain ft the Ur.ited
States under the present Con/litution at un
ier the Confederation."
The headsofthe executive departments,
f am told, have also undertaken to put a
•onftruflion upon the suspension law, I
jelieve, never contemplated by Congress,
nz. that it does not extend to the ofE
:ers and servants of the late military hof.
pitals for personal service rendered the
United States : That because military
tiofpitals are not expressly mentioned, and
jnly army and navy, or military and na
sal departments (as if military hofpitah
were not a part of these eftablifhmeuts}
theycanie not within the provision of the
ift. Whereas the intention of Congress
in palling the fufpenlion law, appears tc
■ne, was to extend mdifcriminate relief tc
ill the late servants of the public, for per.
lonal service rendered the United States
during the war, in whatsoever capacity
:hat were precluded by the limitations ol
:he late Congress. If otherwise, I have
10 doubt, Congress, from a sense of duty ;
,vill immediately remedy the defect, in or
ier to prevent their valuable time being
[pent in reading the petitions frem indi
iriduals of the late military hospital, whose
:afes may comc undar the Operation oi
the limitations heretofore eftablilhed.—
This circumllance leads me to remark
that our laws ought to be framed in the
plainest and moll intelligible language
devoid of any manner ofambiguiry in or
der to prevent mifconftrucliou. Sounc!
tinderllandings, from motivfi of policy
is well as utility, need only to be inform
sd to correct errors and millakes. A dif
:erning public will not reft fatisfied undei
srronpousconftrudlionsor inequitable laws
ior tamely fubmic to an infringement ol
their rights. However small thepittance
it may hereafter be pleaded as a prece
dent, and from smaller, pass to matters o
greater importance in the rights ofAme
rican cieizens.
We have reserved to ourselves the righi
as thinking fptaiing and writing upon thi
proceedings of the servants of the people
and we will exercise this, our natural a:
well as our political right, freely wherievei
iuft occasions oifcr.
A. B. C.
For the Nation ai. Gazette.
[Continued frem our Paper of the 12th in-
Jlant.]}
IT is said that few nations are capable
of preserving their freedom ; and this is
generally attributed toa lack of knowledge
and information in ths people : But if
[Total No. 119.]
ignorance is so universally deilruftive of
liberty, does it not afford us an indispu
table, though melancholy proof, of tl.e
univeifal depravity of the rulers of man.
kmd ; for if rulers were honest, and
would make the peace, interests, and pros
perity of the people the sole end and aim
of their condiifl, they would lead them,
however ignorant, to freedom and hap.
pinefs ; and we should not fee the great
bulk of mankind reduced to misery and
wretchednefa to support the idle pomp
and pageantry of courts, so absurdly cal
led the dignity of government.
The wretched condition of the people
in almost every part of the globe, is a
convincing proof, that there exitts in eve
ry country, a kind of natural aristocracy,
aspiring, ambitious, enemies to
freedom, scorning the idea of Equality,
looking down upon the people as an in
fenor order of beings, and improving eve
ry opportunity, pel fas et nel'as, toexalt
themselves above their fellow citizens.
Againlt the art 3 and deiigns of these
misanthropists or conspirators againfl
he freedom and happiness of mankind,
:he people must have the knowledge and
ivifdom to guard and defend themselves,
>r they cannot preserve their liberties.
Let U3 not fuffer ourselves to be led
iway by the dangerous delusion, that wc
>av« no fueh chara&ers amongst us ;
eit we give occasion fbr taking up over
:he people of this country, the pathetic
amentation mifcle by heaven over the Jew*
if old ; "O! my peopirj ttieT which lead
:hee, cause thee to err, and deltroy thp
»ay of thy paths." Fordo not our dai
y publications teem with produdions,
:ending to lead us into the most danger
>us errors ? Have not manj of those very
:hara£ters, who so lately joined us, in op
jofing and expelling a foreign tyranny,
.vhich stood equally in the way of our
lappinefs, and their own ambition, been
:or some time differisinating principles and
jurfuiug measures deftru'dtive of the for
mer and promotive of the latter* ?
Wnen we obtained peace and the acknow
edgment ofour independence from Great-
Britain, our contest for liberty was but
lalf over, it itill remained to be determin
ed which fliould enjoy the fruits of the
aftory, the people, or their leaders ; that
s, whether the revolution fliould confer
r reedom and happiness upon all, or only
:ontribute to the power and aggrandize
ment of the few.
Hence it is by no means wife or fafe
to trull men merely for what they have
been, during the late revolurion ; but we
tnuft determine their characters by what
they have been since that period, and what
they now are. Many were with us du
ring the war, who are not for u3 now.
The times are changed, and we are chan
ged with them, ai f d tho' it may be diffi
cult, yet I trust it is not irr.poflibie to dis
tinguish these changelings from the honelt
friends of freedom ; many symptoms by
which they may beknown may be collec
ted from that excellent piece in the Na
tional Gazette of the 12th inft. intitled
"Forerunners of monarchy and aristocracy
in the United States," to which 1 wil£
venture to add one, which I think will
not lead into any mistakes of characters,
which is,that he who endeavours to de
ceive the people in points on which it is
of importance for them to be well inform
ed, cannot be their friend : and here I will
once more take the liberty to introduce a
gentleman of the above description, I
mean the writer in Mr. Bache's Adverti
ser of the 4th inltant, who ligns himfel?
Otfego. This writer after endeavouring
to persuade us that an avowed advocatc
for monarchy, may be more fafely trusted
in the administration of the government
of the United States, than one who has
uniformly advocated republican fyf.
tem, goes on in his second paragraph and
fays " Though the chief n\9giftrate of aK
important stale in tha union, he (meaningGovernor Clinton) has flood forth the a
vowecl advocate of hoitils opposition to
that government which lie has sworn to
fuppjft," and to the liite purpose -he fays
in his last paragraph, " shall hewhofe con
ltant endeavours, are directed to over
throw our excellent conlfitution, wiio
threatened to draw his sword in oppolition
to it, be chol'en to fill the lecond oriice un
der it ?" Here I confefs I am at a loss for
a suitable answer, our language does not
afford words fuiliciently severe to reou.ie
him with the asperity he deserves, nor
black enough to paint such conduct in a
public writer. Good God! T antunine
animo hunlaiio viius ? Exists Aich venom
in a human heart ? Is it possible that such
groundlefi calumny, such aiiaffiaation of
ciiaratter, should 'proceed from a pen
which sets out with so much pretended
tenderneis for charatter, as to accule Mr.
Ad tnii's opponents of calumny, merely for
quoting his own acknowledged fenfiments
a-iiii'l him? Is it poiiible that we can be
miltaken in marking this man as an ene
my to our freedom, who has thus attempt
ed to deceive us by politive fallhood in
anatlair waich he admits is ofmuch impor
tances oiircounfy? I lhallnow endeavour
to Ihew, though it is hard to prove a nega
tive, that this is one of those many fall
hoods, which have been invented, and
propagated agaimt that good man, by the
virtuous partizans of Ariitocracy, who in
their at zeal and hurry to enlighten our
underltandings, and thereby enable us to
fup:)ort our liberty, often forget that any
regard is due either to truth or decency.
, o far has Governor Clinton been from
ever avowing an hofYile oppolition to the
government oi the United states, that he
was perhaps thefirft man in the United
States, who publicly avowed his determi
nation to support it ; which I am inform
ed he did in a solemn, public manner be
fore a whole people assembled in their le
prefentatives, at the moment of its adop
tion. This is a fact, which can be incon
teftibly proved. Mr. Hamilton, or Mr.
Jay, if requested, I believe, could eithei
of the*n certify the truth of
And I call Upon Mr. Otfego or any one
else, to make it appear that Governor
Clinton ever threatened, either before or
since the adoption of the conflitution, to
draw his sword in oppolition to it. And
I am fully persuaded, that since its adop
tion, his molt ingenious enemies would be
puzzled to point out any part of his con
duct, which can be called unfriendly to it.
And so far in my opinion ought we to be
from confideringhim as an enemy to the
conflitution, that we ought, as we vvifh to
perpetuate the bleflings of freedom in our
country, and to fe-ure our poßerity from
that mis ry and wretchedness, under
which man i; made to groan in every other
part of the world, by tne luxury, the pride
and the oppreliion of their rulers, to
pray to God, tha the government of the
United States, may ever be administered
by jll ft such enemies to it as Governor
Clinton is.
I shall make but one more remark at
thistime, which is, that those who endea
vour, either by a diiiimulation of their own
or a misrepresentation of the char ait en ol
others, to deceive the people at elections,
are, and ought to be coniidered, as more
dangerous enemies to their liberties, than
those who are in open arms ngainfl them.
(To be continued.)
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
FRANCE, Oftoberi.
Letter from the commifTioners tent tc
Chalons, dated St. Menehould, Sept. 30.
at nine in the evening; addressed to the
National Convention :—" In cur last let
ter we gave you an account of our arrival
at the army of General Dumourier, and oi
the effe£t produced 011 it by a notificatior.
of the wife decrees which you have alrea
dy pa(Ted. We now announce to you thai
we have jufl received intelligence, that the
king of Prussia has raised the camp whicli
he had about a league from us; from the
polition in which it was, General Dumou
rier forefaw, that the enemy could nol
long keep their polition in the midst of the
de.'ert plains of Champaigne, and withoul
having any communication through whict
they could receive convoys but toward:
Grand Pre.
Some days ago General Dumourier dis
patched General Buernonville with a bod)
of 13,000 men, to intercept this communi
cation, and that general, distinguished for
his activity, zeal and ability, succeeded ir
getting pufiefllon of several considerable
convoys. He likewise took more than 10c
prisoners, who arrived successively in the
course of the day. All accounts agree in
certifying the extreme diflrefs to which
the army of the enemy is reduced ; and
General Dumourier formed a very jufl
idea of their situation, when he informed
you that they could not remain long in
it.
" It can scarcely be believed that expe
rienced generals fliould have penetrated
intd the defarts of Champaigne, had they
not entertained a vain hope that they should
be seconded in their operations by a crimi
nal correspondence with the mal-contents;
but the memorable day of the icth has
proved, that the French, while they com-
bat for liberty, will perish rather than con
tent to any capitulation. The general,
ilaily informed of details which proved
their distress, properly judged that by pre
serving their iituation, they would dellroy
tli- eftect of any movements which they
might attempt. This army, so iormida
ble, is reduced one halt by its lick whom
they were obliged to ieiul away to Grand
Pre. It is well known that there is a ge
neral hufpital in that town, in which there
is more than 8000. Had General Duinou
rier abandoned his position and advanced
towards Chalons or Rheims, they would
infallibly have taken advantage oi his
movement, not to attack us but to pass
through the defile, and to eftablilh can
tonments for the purpole of palling the
winter in one of the molt fertile countries.
His constant perseverance has obliged
them, last night, to make a movement en
tirely contrary to that which he expefl
ed.
" They have quitted their poll', and the
communication between Chalons and St.
Menc-hou'd is now re-eftablilhed. which
gives the French army 15 hours for the ar
rival of convoys and provilions. Ardour
and fatisfaCtion prevail among our troops,
and our lituation was never lb advantage
ous as at prei'ent. The lirft movement
which the enemy made indicates that they
wilh to retire through the defile of Grand
Pre, the only pall'sge which remains to
:hein.
" We Ihall not enter into any details
refpefting the future plans of General Du
mourier, but we think it our duty to in
form you, that the utmott confidence ought
:o be reposed in him ; that the people of
Paris need be in no uneaiinefs, and tint
we hope in our next to give you Hill more
Satisfactory intelligence. People ought
not, however, to exult in that fuccef.
which the fate of war may reverie ; but
we are able at present to give hopes, wh ch
,-efult from the certain diltrefi of cur ene
my, and the diseases by which they ait
weakened ; from the excellent condition
;f our troops, and from the ardor whieli
; hey shew to combat those tyrants, who
ivilh to impose law's upon them, as well as
"roin the confidence which they have in
:heir General.
(Signed)
"CARRA
"SELLERY.
" BRIEUR."
"P. S.—lt was by mistake that we da
:ed our last on the 30th : the true date wa:
:he 29th, at seven in the morning. Thi;
lioment we have received a ljtcerfron
Jeneral Buernonville, announcing thai
jnce yefterclay he has taken 200 piiloners.
34 waggons loaded with cloaths for thi
roops, 800 horses, and five emigrants ol
:he king's household. By a second note
vve are informed that he has killed 27 hui
ars with a Pruflian commander. Tht
National Convention will learn these de
;ails with fatisfavtion."
A copy of the letter from General Du
mourier to the king of Pruliia was thei
■ead. In this letter the general informec
lis Prullian majesty, that the manifeftos o:
:he Duke of Brunfwick had been treatec
ivith l'overeign contempt by the whoK
trench nation, and that it was not b;
:hreats that a free people could be con
quered. He then represented to him tht
idvantages which would rel'ult to botl
nations by an alliance of which they wen
30th worthy, and requested him in thi
lame of his own glory and interest, and i:
:hofe of his army, to abandon the del'pica
:>le cause of the emigrants.
The reading of this letter was frequent
ly interrupted by applauses.
The Minister for foreign affairs tranf
mitied to the Convention a lift of thofi
imbafl'adors and envoys who had takei
:he new oath. The ambalfador at tht
;ourt of Denmark had not only refufed u
:ake it, but had written to Louis Staniflau.
Xavier that he would receive no order:
jut from him, whom he considered as the
mily lawful king of France.
.4 Utter from the Minister for Foreigr,
Affairs, to the National Convention.
Paris, October 1.
" Citizen Frefident—l announced to the
National Convention that overtures for t
legociation had been made in the name ol
the king of Pruliia to General Dumourier.
1 mentioned at the fame time the decilior
□f the executive power, which orderec
the Generals not to liiten to the proposal:
until the armies of del'pots had firft evacu
ated the land of liberty. The proposals ol
the king of Pruliia were however remark
able, a» they contained a precise acknow
ledgment of the national authority, and ol
the quality of representative of the natioi;
in external relations which had been at
tached formerly to the political exiftenct
of the constitutional king. Another ac
knowledgment, no less remarkable, was,
that the ancient order of things, deltroyeci
by the will of the nation lince 1789, was
contrary to the happiness of the people.
" Such an unexpected acknowledgment,
spontaneously made, without any previous
negociation, might incline 11s to think that
the enemies armies are in the greatest dis
tress. There are, however, other mo
tives equally prefiing, which make them
think of peace. Akind of truce was agreed
upon. Gen. Dumourier took advantage
of it, to collect, and properly dispose, the
different bodies which v. ere to be joined
to his army. He made in quietness, and
with lilence, all those movements which
were necettary to give him a
by his situation, and to confine the enemy
IP. theirs. While he was thus preparing
lor his military plans, frequent communi
cations, that could not but be advantage
ous to liberty, we're established between
the two armies. General Dumourier em
braced this opportunity of exchanging pri
: oners of war. The cartel agreed upon
with the Pruilian Generals was formed ac
cording to the laws decreed by the Nati
onal Allenibly- The emigrant pr:fonen
were not included in it, and the Duke oi
Brunfwick did not even persist in a remon
tirance, which he had made in their fa
vor.
A conference on this occalion took
ulace between the Duke of Brunfwick,
Count de Luchefini, minister o the king
of Prullia, and lieutenant-colonel adjutant
general Thouveilot, who was charged with
iondu£ting the exchange ot prisoners. In
this conference, the Duke ot Brunfwick
?xpreli'ed himfelf almost in the following
terms:
" Our nations are not formed to be ene-
Tiies : might not fame means be devised
for accommodating matters in an amica
jle manner? We are in your country —it
s desolated by the inevitable misfortune:
>f war ; we know that we have no right
:o prevent a nation from giving itielf
aws, and from tracing out its internal go
/ernment —we do not wilh it—we are on
y interested for the fate of the king. Af
ure us, that a place will be alligued tc
lim, in the new order of things, under am
lenomination whatever, and his majefly,
:he king of P.uilia, will return to hisou 1
fates, and become your ally."
'• The moderation of this language, frorr
i man who signed the manifeltoes ulreadj
published, and to which the contempt oi
.he French nation has done ample juitice
null appear surprising.
" Lieutenant Colonel Thouvenot repli
ed, " that the will of the French ; cpublu
would not yield to any foreign influence,
ind that the reprtfentatives ot the nation,
;o whom the valuable depolit ot its honoi
md glory was particularly entrusted, woulc
:ontinuaily perliit in maintaining decree;
which had been functioned by general opi
lion."
'• The Duke of Brunfwick terminatec
:he conference, by faying that he woulc
:ranfinit to Gen. Dumourier a memoria
311 the subject. This memorial is a thirc
manifetlo, worthy in every thing of tht
:wo former. Gen. Dumourier receivet
it with indignation, in which we lhare, anc
rthich nrnlt alio be excited in the Nationa
Convention, and in all France.
; It wa > immediately announced that thi
:ruce was broken, and letters from tht
jeneral, written in a Itile suited to a mai
louored with the nobl*> employment ol
:onducting t renchinen to liberty, procuret
in answer from the king ot Prussia's aid
de-can;p, Hating, that the intentions o:
:he king and of the Duke of Brunfwicl
tad been misunderstood ; that a new con
Terence was demanded ; and that the roya
and imperial armies would not be ths
tirft to break the. truce. Cen. Dumou
rier refufed to consent to any new confer
ence, or any delay in the operations ot til:
campaign, unlefsthe memorial oi the Luitt
of Brunfwick should be firll annulled.—
Such is the actual Hate ot things '■ \» liai
patted during that circumstance, w ill ihew
the French nation in that reipeciable poini
of view which belongs to it. All our pro
ceedings have been marked with candoi
and hrir.nefs. We have abandoned flrata
gem and weakness to our enemies, and al
Lurope mull perceive i:i our conduct, ;
people, who let a just value or: peace, bui
who are not afraid of war.
(Signed) "LEBRUN."
After reading the above detail,
M. Brifl'otthen read the memorial oi
the Duke of Brunfwick, which runs in
limilar lirain with his two former mani
fettces. The reading of it was frequentU
interrupted with murmurs, and when thai
part was read, which infills on the reflora
tion of I.ouis XVI. to the royal dignity,
the Affeinbiy burst into a ht ot laughter.—
M. Brittot requel'ted the lilence ot pity.
PARIS, October 3,
As it becomes every day more difficuli
to guard the prisoners in the Temple, or
account of the measures which they con
cert together, and as the retponfibility ol
the council-general of the commons, ren
ders it neceliary for them to prevent their
from escaping, they have patted the fol
lowing decrees :
I. That Louis and Antoinette shall bt
confined apart.
11. That each prisoner lhall have a se
parate apartment.
111. That their valet-de-chambre lhall
be arretted.
IV. That the citizen Hebert shall be
added to the five commifiioners already
appointed.
V. The commifiioners are authorized tc
put in force the decree of September 29,
and to deprive them of their (ilver plate
and table equipage ; and, in a word, tc
take such tteps as they may think proper,
10 preserve these hoftagesof the conspiracy
of tyrants combined against the liberty of
the republic.
The king of Spain has lately published
an ordonnance, ftri&ly forbidding the cir
culation in his kingdom of all books speak
ing of the revolution of France ; as well
as fans, ribbons, handkerchiefs, &c. that
may contain any allusion to it.
Proclamation of a Council of War, held
at Litle, the 12th of September, 1793,
at noon, the firlt year of French liberty.
" Citizens!— Our enemies, defpairingto
take the fortrefa by the rules of art, me
nace you in order to obtain that end, by 3
bombardment. Citizens! be calm ; re
member your oaths ; be afl'ured, that go
vernment will indemnify you for your
lolfes, and our enemies will prove, that it
is without success they attack a free peo
ple.
By order of the Council of War,
POISSONIER, Sec'ry.
BOSTON, Dec. 6
A Captain from the port of New-Lon
lon lately (hipped through mistake a fe
nule, tlifguifed in the habit of a tar, who
>erformed the duties of a frefit water fai
or in an admirable manner, so as to pre
lude a discovery of her sex till the actually
irr'.ved in the Weft-Indies.—While Coti
;refs are about eltablifhing a new ast for
lie more effectual purpose of encouraging
American seamen ; this heroine has lent
her aid to the brave sons of Neptune, by
aropciing the introduflion of her sex, as a
uean of excluding agreat number of Eritilh
lacks, who are, to the great detriment of
mir commerce, constantly employed in the
American trade.
In the lart Chronicle, we had the honor
3f communicating to the enlightened free
men of Maflachiuetts, and to our fellow-
in general, the opinion we had
ormedof the fallacy of the disagreeable
uinours, so carefully and indilftrioufly cir
culated in England and America, of the
uppofed misfortunes of our Gallic friends,
ind illustrious coadjutors in the glorious
.aufe of freedom. In this, we offer (and
t is with great pleafurc we can do it) a
full confirmation, not only of the agreea
ble intelligence contained in our lait; but
as a prefpeft being opened, at least of an
sntire evacuation of France, by the invad
ing armies, and a consequent establishment
as a free and happy cor.fHtution to that
jallant and generous people. That this
may be the event, may God almighty
jrant !
In addition to the Paris accounts, we
:an allure our readers, on the authority of
Captain [Voodrobe, an intelligent observer,
who came pafi'enger in the velfel from
I unkirk, and who is abundantly capable
of knowing, from his long residence in
that place, that every thing was calm and
tranquil there, and indeed in every part of
France, iince the commotions of the 4th
of September, in Paris. Affignats (their
paper money) sppreciasing—commerce
protected—and the flags of all nations flying
111 that harbor, without even excepting the
Austrian. All persons seem to have but
ane spirit, and are united in pUrfuitof or.e
cbjefi.—the expulsion or capture of the
Germans.—That the National Convention
confitt of men cool and determined in the
cause of libel ty. In fine, that every thing
v. ore the haopieft face when he left France,
v. hich was about the sixth of Oflober.
A correspondent affuresus, that the Maf
rachufetts Charitable Society, at their
quarterly meeting last Monday evening,
n.aurmoujly \oted a blanket for each pri
soner now confined in Boston gaol, and as
:Mich fuel as will be necei.ary to keep
them comfortable during the clemency of
the leafon.
We are informed, that at a late meet
ing of the agriculturalJ 'cieiy, in this town,
d v: rv considerable sum of money was sub
scribed, for eftabliiliing a fund to defray
the expence of premiums and bounties
which may be voted by the society. The
11011. T. I'ujj'ell, on this occalion, fubferib
td ci:e thu. sand dollar<■ An instance of
patriotiftn we deem highly worthy record
ing.
A correspondent cannot but remark,
how " circumstances ajter cases." Those
who are now lamenting the hard lot of the
Secretary at War, that he cannot be heard
viva voce before Congress, were highly
("upporting certain dignified charatters
when the heroic MORGAN, was denied
a trial on the spot, where he could pro
duce fubflantial evidence of the truths he
afl'erted, and was ordered hundreds of miles
into the wilderness for the purpose. Let
not then the Secretary at War complain of
" exparte evidence."
Perhaps nothing can be more pernicious,
than an obsequious difpolition to a blind
commendation, of the measures of any
government : It is enquiry, criticism, and
scrutiny, which inform, inllruft and im
prove. The a£tion of laws upon public
opinion, and the re-nftion of that opinion
upon government, is the criterion, by
which to judge of the wi'ilom, the policy,
or the folly of political measures: Whilst
a due attention is paid to thefc* correspond
ent refle£tions, of the government upon
the people, and of the people upon the
government, the public confidence will be
inspired, and increased, and the knowledge
of legislation enlarged and improved,HARTFORD, Dec. 10.
On Wedneftfoy lalt the Electors for this
{late, of Prelident and Vice-Preiident ot
the United States, met at the court-house
in Middletown, and unanimously voted for
George Walhington, Efq- Prelident, and
John Adairis, Esq. Vice-Preiident.
We are informed that some of the elec
tors of this ltate, received letters from
New-York, recommending Gov. Clinton
as a proper man for Vice-Preiident. The
writers of those letters, and all their ad
herents, may be alfiired, that this and eve
ry other attempt to influence the people ol
this (late in their elections, will excite nc
small degree of refentinent. The faction:
of N.-w-Yorkhad better keep their undiu
influence, their cabals and their corrup
tion, among the:nfelves, and not attemp!
, to spread them among the quiet and inde
pendent electors and freemen of Connec
ticut. Any attempt of this kind deserve:
severe reprobation ; but an attempt u
persuade our electors to vote for Governor
Clinton, a man of moderate political ta
lents, and a lteady active enemy to the con
dilution of the United States, is a vcr]
open affront to the citizens oi this state—
A man too who is at the head of a part)
in New-York—and it is a sacred truth
that the leaders of popular factions are al,
tyrants at heart. Governor Clinton ia in
finitely more ariftocratical in his principle:
than Mr. Adams—at the fame time, hi:
political talents and information, weighet
in the bilance with those of Mr. Adams
are ligher than a feather. For (hame, yt
tools of power ! keep your tyrant amonj
yourselves, and do not obtrude him into ;
lituation, where he may dilturb the peace
of the union.
A cultomer wiflies to be informed ol
whom that " little faction of wrongheads,'
iscompofed, mentioned by a corre.pondenl
in your last Monday's paper, to have
" raised us in three years tune from :i
wretched (late of discord, artdrefcued out
national chara£ter from infamy " If yom
correspondent will be good enough to an
swer this enquiry, he will render ever)
friend to his country, ell'ential ferviu?, foi
they wish to direct their gratitude to object:
deserving it.
ALBANY, Dec. J.
Judge Hofmer of Ontario county, arriv
ed in this city on Saturday 1 alt, from th<
Genefee country, and has teen so obligiiif
as to communicate to us the important ani
highly interesting intelligence of a trues
having been concluded between the hoftih
Indians and the United States, on whie!
we take the liberty of felicitating oui
■countrymen.
He fays, the chiefs of the Six Nations
deputed and commiilioaed by thePreftdeni
of the United States on a million to th*
holtile tribes, alfeinbled in coancil at th.
Miami village, are returned home, havinj
happily succeeded in bringing about a ce.''-
fatian of arms between the Caid Indian;
and the United States—to continue till the
spring of 1793; and that in the interim,
they are ready and willing to enter inrt
negotiations with commiflioners, 0.1 the
part of Congress, for bringing about anc
eftabliihing a firm and lalting peace with
the United States.
The said chiefs add, that the Indians Sl\
the council, contrary to their molt san
guine expectations, received them with s
great deal of cordiality, (tiling the® theii
elder brothers, and treating them as fuel,
in the molt courtly and friendly manner ;
and that they paid every poflibls degree ci
respect and attention to the talks whicl:
were delivered them from the I'reiideat ol
the United States.
The above information was received ir
the Genefee settlement (as viijyit well be
expected) with the highelt ileg.te of fa
ti,faction ; and it has already given a new
fp.-ing to the spirit of improvement, a:
well as to all kinds of bulinefs in th*t lieu
and flourilhing part of the union.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FridAv, Dec. 14.
A report was read from the committee
appointed to propose amendments to the
act palled lalt feilion, impoling certain du
ties on the judges of the circuit courts, re
specting the relief of invalids. The re
port was in favor of those amendments,
and of striking out those fe£tions of the
law, which some of the judges had object
ed to executing; initead of which the re
port contemplates the appointment of com
milTioners to carry into elfect the general
purposes of the act. This report was
referred to a committee of the whole
House on Monday the 3i(tin(tant.
A letter was read from the Secretary s!
War, containing lilts of invalid pensioners
returned to the war office as invalids by the
judges of the circuit courts, with the par
ticulars of their several cafes—Referred
to a committee of the whole on the 31(1
initant—as were also two other reports
from the Secretary at War on the fame
fnbjeft,
The report on the petition of the inha
bitants of Toft St. Vincennes, praying ex
dmption from the expetice of re-surveying
their lands, was received fronl the com
mitteee in favor of the petitioners —Read
a:)d laid on the table.
The House took into consideration the
amendments of the enate to the bill pro
viding for the registering and recording
ihips or vessels. The lirft, second, and third
amendments were agreed to ; the 4th (to
guard effeltually againfl collusion in re
gard to American vsjfels) was, after some
debate, negatived-
A meflagc was received from the Senate
with a bill lor adding to and altering the ac:
for extending the time allowed for fettling
the accounts between the United States
and individual (tares—Read, and laid 011
the table.
On motion made for the House to go in
to committee on the confidential meliage
from the I'refident, the doors were Ihut.
Monday, Dec. 17.
The bill from the Senate, for extension
of the limited time for fettling accounts
between the individual dates and the Uni
ted States, was read a lecond time, and re
ferred to a committee of the whole House
on the seventh of January next.
The report of the committee, iii favor
of the petition of Simeon Fair, who had
loft eye in the service of the United
itates, was referred to a committee or the
whole, to-morrow The House then
Went into committee of the whole, on the
i-eport of the committee 10 whom had been
-eferred the memorial and petition of tht
executors o Edward Carnes, together
with the Secretary of the Treasury's re
jor: thereon. —After some debate, the pe
tition was agreed to, and a committee ap
ointeU to bring in a bill for the purpoles
therein mentioned^
PHILADELPHIA.
December 19.
By a letter received in town yeflterday
from Gen. Wilkinfon (dated Fort Hamil
ton, Nov. 6,) we are informed that Ma
jor Adair on the fame day a smart en
gagement with abodyoffavages, supposed
to be double his number, near Fort St.
Clair. After a tharp contelt for 2 hours,
he kept his ground, tho' the ens my carried
off the greater part of his horfestlvhring the
action. Capt. Hale was among the (lain—
Madison wounded llightly—Mathew En
g!i!h, Isaac Jett, Joseph Clinton, John Wil
liams, and Robert Bowling, are the other!
killed—wounded s—Captains—Captain Adair com
manded a company of ico mounted vo
lunteers, from Kentucky, appointed to ef-
Lort provisions from Fort Waj'uingtdn f<>;
the supply of Forc-Jefferfon. Two Indi
ans were killed, and many others carriec
off during the battle.
We (hould have noticed in our last, thai
tlo sooner had the news arrived on Fridaj
iflternoan of the retreat of the despotic for
ces of Pruilia and Austria from the French
frontier, than the bells of this city were
r et a ringing iti testimony of the frncere
md heart-felt joy of the citizens on this
Trand occasion, and of the part tliey take
in an event that contributes 11) 110 small de
cree to emancipate the 1-Vench troln the
t>roje£ted tyranny of combined Europe.
On Wednefdav the 12th inft... John Tay
lor, Esquire, appointed by the legiflatnre
sf Virginia one of the members of the Se
nate of the United States for that state, in
the place of Richard H. Lee, rtligned,
:00k his feat in the house.
A letter from France, dated October 5,
to a gentleman in Newport, R. I Hand, has
the following paragraph : —" It is this day
reported, that the king of Prliffia offers to
treat with us and return home ; but 110
terms will be accepted until he leaves the
kingdom.''
'• Our readers will observe (fays a Lon
don paper of Ofltober 6) from the details
t>f the National Convention, that inllead
of General Dumourier's army having been
forced to lay down their arms, or having
met with any thing like a disaster, that of
the Duke of Brunfwick is now retreating,
with circumstances rather like a flight
than any thing else."
The commissioners for building the Pre-
Gdent's House, in this city, have reported
that the expenditures already made (ex
clusive of the purchase of the lot) amount
to/.8,827 11 6, besides several bills un
paid. for the discharge of which they ex
pect the balance of the sum appropriated
(11,000) will be fuficient to complete the
edifice, and for its appendages/. 10,000
more are required.
A letter from a gentleman in the well
ern army mentions, that no expedition
will be carried on against the Indians du
ring the present winter —that discipline is
at the height offeverity—desertion punch
ed with immediate death after conviflion,
and the whip not spared for the smallest
crimes.
A petition from the inhabitants of the
county of Dauphin, in this state, has been
laid before the general assembly, complain
ing of illegal proceedings at the late elec
tion—lt is to betaken up for consideration
this day.
TO BE DISPOSED OF,
The prophecies and opinions of the
Right Hon. Edmund Burke, not only with
rcfpeit to the French revolution, and its
probable confequenc.es, but also with re
gard to a Reform of the Representation oi
the People of England, in the Commons
House of Parliament.
{Cy" To save trouble, one farthing or a
Holland doit, will be the money required.
N. B.—All the political consequence of
the said Right Honorable Edmund Burke,
will be thrown into the bargain.
[Lond. paper."]
A critical view of Parties ill relation to
the contest between Mr. Adams and Go
vernor Clinton.
The Party for Mr. Adams consisted of,
i • A certain description and combination
well known to be attached to a govern
ment of king, lords, and commons—The
activity and constancy of this corps may be
counted on in all future cases.
2. Federalists, governed more by party
lames and prejudices, than by a regard to
the principles of the constitution itfelf, as
'.lie test of its real friends and adversaries—
This class mull daily decrease, as reafou
jets the better of pallion and error.
3. Republicans uninformed of Mr. A—'s
political principles, or the neceifity of ar
resting their progress in the government —
This class mult in like manner decrease, as
i knowledge of public characters and
jjblic affairs is diffufed.
4. Ealtern citizens who have Hiteiled to
iVili'e suggestions that the oppolition to Mr.
\. was an oppolition againit New-England,
and originated in a local faflion, or enmity
of the fouthci-n states. Time and truth
null ere long lhew that the lincere friends
->f equal liberty and republican govern
ment have every where the fame views
and iuterelts, and thereby difcomfit the
manoeuvres practiled to di vide and govern
:hem.
5. Such as allowed a refpe£t for the pri
vate character of Mr. A. aud a fyinpathy
•vith his personal lituation to ovel-rule
heir objedtions to his political principles
ind inclinations.
The party for Gov. Clinton consisted of,
1. Thole who opposed the constitution
■vithout previous amendments, and retain
heir attachment to Gov. C. as a powerful
nember of the anti-federal party. As the
jccalion of this party-diftinttion pafles in
.o oblivion, this motive of attachment will
:eafe, but the republican ground ofpre
"erence will continue.
2. Friends of the constitution, who ef
joufed it as a republican one—who with it
:a be administered as a republican one—
.vho try political principles by the standard
jf the constitution, not by party names or
.onnexions, who fee the progress of mo
larchical and ariitocratical principles and
/ices; and dreading and hating the eifefts
>f thtfe as the worlt of political evils, na
urally (ide with republicans of all parties
ind all places, in preference to anti-repub
icans of any place or party.
3. Tliofe who belong to the party of
vhich Gov. C. is the head in his particular
late. A. Z.
Dec. 16.
Prt'J'ent View of France and her Com
bined Enemies.
FROM Bojrbtn's biow the crown rcmov'd
Low in the dust it laid,
And parted, now, from all she lov'd
Maria's beauties fade :
What (hall relieve her fad diflrefs,
What power recall that former Hate,
When drinking deep the drafts of blif»
She fmil'd—and look'd so sweet" ! —
With aching heart and haggard eye
She views the palace,t towering high,
Where once were pafT'd her joyous days,
And nations flood, in wild amaze,
Louis ! to fee you eat !
1 he gaudy vision to reflore
Shall fate its laws repeal,
And cruel despots rife once more
To plan a new Baflile ?
i-hall " from their sheathes ten thousand blade
In glittering vengeance start,''
To cut up kttf, and slice off heads,
Taking their monarch's part ?—
Ah no !—the iatesthis hope refufe,
Louis, they fend you no such news—
Nor Condc tierce, nor Frederick flout,
Nor Catharine brings this work about,
Nor BruvJ-Uiick's warlike art.
Valour, at length, by freedom led
1 he lights of man refloies,
And Gallia, cow from tyrants freed.
Her Jacobin adores !
* Stc Mr. Burke's Ink sr. tbt Frcn;b Revolu
tion.
-j- Teuillei x:.
On EouAL aICHTS their fabric planr.' 1,
Storms idly round it rave,
Nor longer breathes in Gallic lind
A monarch or a slave.
At distance far, and felf-remov'd
From all he own'd, and all he lov'd,
See—turn dhis back on freedom > blaze—=
In foreign lands the apostate firays,
Th' aristocratic knave.
Enroll d with these, but close immur'd.
The gallant chief { is founti,
Whom once admiring crowds ador'd.
Thro' either world renown'd :
Here, bold in arms arid firm in heart
He help'd to win our cause ;
Yet could not from a tyrant part,
But turn'd to embrace his laws.—
■Ah! hadflthou staid in fair Auvergne
And truth from Paine § vouchfaf dtolearrij
There happy, honor d, and retir'd,
Beth hemijpheres had {till admir d,
Still crown'd you with applause !
See, doom'd to feaft on familh'd deeds,
The rude Hungarians fly ;
Brunfiu'ick with drooping courage leads
Death s dismal family :
In horrid groups, ocr hosts of dead,
Their madness they bemoan,
No friendly hand to give them bread,
No Thionville theirownj
fhs Gaul enrag d as they retire
Aitas at each head his stream of fire—i
What hosts of Frederick • reeking crew
Dying, mud bid the world adieu,
To dogs their flefh be thrown !
Efcap'd from death, a mangled train
In scatter d bands retreat
Where bounding on plain
The despot holds his feat—
With feeble step 1 fee them go
»
The heavy news to tell
Where Oder's lazy waters flow
Or glides the fwift Motile:
Where Rhine his various journey moves
Thro' fettled lands or savage groves,
Or where the vast Danubian flood
(So often ting'd by Austrian blood)
Foams with th' autumnal swell.
But shall they not some tidings beat
Of freedom s sacred flame,
And shall not fetter d millions hear
The long abandon'J name ?—
Thro' ages past, their spirits broke,
1 fee them spurn old laws,
Indignant burst the Austrian yoke
And clip the Eagle's claws:
From shore to shore, from sea to Tea
They aim to set the wretched tree,
And driving from the servile court
tach royal knave—they help support
Th* democratic cause.
O France! the world to thee must ow4
A debt they ne'er can pay :
The rights of man you bid them know,
And kindle reason s day.
Columbia, in your friendlhipbleft,
Your gallant deeds shall hail,
On the fame ground our fortunes reft,
Must fleurifh or mull fail:
But Ihould all Europe% slaves combi»s
Against a cause so fair as thine,
And Afu aid a league so base,
Defeat would every plan disgrace,
And liberty prevail !
Dec iS.
de la Fayette, r.ow confined in the caflle of
Spandsu, in Prussia —Hit ejlates lay in the rich
country of Auvergne, and are noiv conjijtated to the
nation. '
See Mr. Paine's dedication of his feeond Part
of the Rights of Man, to M. de la Fayette.
THEperfon who borrowed aSILVER WATCH
last August troiii a peifun near this City with
th;.let ers M.T. (initials of the ownfrs na me) id
c>pher, on the outside cafe, the number 4452, is
deliied to return it to the printer of this paper,
or he will be advertised in a mandcr that will bd
dil'graceful to himfelf#
4t. 2aw .
WANTS EMPLOYMENT,
Either in a Dry-good or Grocery fiord — r
A young man that is acquainted with both:/
and can be well recommended—
Enquire of ;he Printer.To the Editor of the National Gazette.
SI R >
YOU 'will oblige many nfytur correJpondentSj and
fub/cribers, as well as tbe admirers of clajfica I p re
ductions throughout the world) by re-printing tbt
elegant Latin Verfes y 'which appeared in your Ga
a;ette y tf Wednejday the %tb of December y on tbt
Pyramid of Stars.-—'Be pleajeu to prefix the noti
by which it was introduced to you, Jigned A. B.
and subjoin tbe inclosed tranjlation ; which you ivil
find is as literal as the idioms of the two languages'
and tbe reflriflion of metre and rhyme will permit
it to be,
I am your friendy
Dec. 14. p. J.
t
Mr. Fn ENtAU,
THE ft a! 1 of Kentucky having encreafed 11
Humber of the emblematic stars, and afforded an op
portunity of arranging them in a new form— -I sent
you the following trtfle on the Jubjefi. The Nation
al Mottoj which J wijhcd to include, will furnifh 1
fujpeient apology for writing in Lain.
Yours, &c. A. B.
Philad. Dec. icy
* •
* *
* * *
** * *
*** * *
<( Barbara Pyramidum fileat miracula Memphis "
Heu male fervili marmora flru&a manu
Libera jam, ruptis, Atlantias ora, catenis,
Jaftat opus Phario marmore nobilius.
Namque Columbiadae, faiSll monumenta pararites
Vulgarem fpernunt fumerc materiam :
Magnanimi »alum fcandunt; perituraque faxi
Quod vincat, celfa de Jovis arce petunc.
Audax inde cohors ftellis E Pluribus Unum
Ardua Pyramidos tollit ad a lira caput.
Ergo, Tempus edax, quamvis duriflima Cevo
Saxa domas morfu, nil ibi juris habes.
Dumque polo folitis cognata nitoribus ardent
Sidera, fulgebit Pyramis ilia fuis.
[Tranjlation of the foregoing.']
*5 HER Pyramids no more let Memphis boafl,
11 Those wonders of the world, in ours are lojl
At! monument of earthly matter made,
By servile hands unlkilful at the trade !
Her chains broke off, the free Atlantic coast
May nobler works than Pharian marble boa.t!
Columbia's sons in memory of the event,
About to raise a lading monument ;
gcorning toufe such vulgar earthly fluff,
• Bold scale the heavens and mount the fpangl'd roof
Of Jove's high citadel, and thence bring down
Materials, which outlafl the mould'ring Hone.
The daring band ere>9 a Pyramid
Of stars composed, whose lofty head is h.id,
In the high heavens, on which, devouring Time
Thy creel tooth, that gnaW3 the rocks to lime,
Makes no impression : and while round the pole
The kindred stars their usual splendors roll;
This Pyramid of stars (hall foine as'bright
With native fplenddr and unborrowed light.'.
Tranjlation of Pf.re Duchene's Obferva■
tioni on the ajfajjination of the King oj
Sweden—Written before the Deposition Oj
the King of the French.
" I am far from approving aflaffinati
ons; the word is enough to make my lou
fliudder ; but he who exposes himfelf tc
the horrors of being aflaflinated, by abu.
sing royal power, by signalizing his days
by new and repeated outrages against hu
manity, justice, and reason, is he not cul
pable ? He who places himfelf above ths
laws, and looks on them as mere infignifi
cant bawbles; he who is above their reach,
and reigns by numberless injustices, is he
not exposed to meet death amidst his plea
sures ? The afiafiination of a king is cer
tainly horrid, and I eonfefs I cannot think
on that atrocity without honor : But are
there many of those pretended sovereigns.
who have not to reproach themselves witli
having facrificed, unjustly, and to their
private vengeance, poor wretched victims,
whom no person feels for ? a poor indivi
dual perishes innocently on the fcafFold :
or, chained for life, is thrown into a dun
geon ! Well, that affects no person ! Hi
is an infignificant being.' he dies with igno
ininy, or in torments—he is forgotten !! !
" The daily cruelties committed by the
exceflive ambition of kings, are yet the
caufe3 of their being carried in triumph,
covered with laurels: It seems as if i n .
cense was only to be bellowed on crimes ;
and those odious atrocities are called mar
vellou3 exploits! O ! Shame of humani
ty !
" How many vi&ims are facrificed in
unjust and extravagant battles ? Who
condu&s to the (laughter so many thou
sands of poor devils in good health, and
who could double the population of em
pires in a short time ? Who orders them to
be maflacred with muskets, sabres, or can
non ? Kings.
" Who, since the creation of the worlds
deluged the whole earth with blood, and
each year multiplied assassinations, trea
cheries, and the mod revolting horrors ?—
Kings.
" Who built dungeons and filled them
with unfortunate wretches, who had com
mitted no other crime than revealing the
truth? Kings. In fine, who fuppoited
proud opulence in it 3 numberless crimes ;
prote&ed the guilty favorites bccaufe
they had access to the steps of the throne;
and facrificed others, whom only raifery
and woe rendered criminal ? Kings.
" People, subdue them to reason, o
blige them to obey the laws, and you will
not have to complain of them any more ;
you will not fee again the horrible trage
dy of kings assassinated by ferocious hands
led by revenge, and armed by despair !
They will be happier, because
those who may surround them will nc
more abuse their power, and provoke tlx
execration of the world against them.
" The time is not far off, when all na
tior.s will imitate the French : The Right!
sf Man will be known round the world :
By degrees, justice and laws will remair
the only sovereigns on earth : Nationi
will at last enjoy happiness—see none bul
contented men—and sever again fee as
faffins.
From the Fayettevii,le Gazette, o,
the 4.th December.
BEING in company, a few days since
the conversation was on the trouble:
which the French are involved in Th<
condudl of Petlon, the grsat republicar
ind mayor of Pans, was loaded with cv;.
ry execrable epithet. This naturally lec
me to ask what that great man had done
The reply was, he has bsen the moil ac
tive agent to dethrone the king, and by
that event the Germans, emigrants, &c,
under the Duke of Brunfwick, were with
rapidity advancing to Paris. This, if fad,
is a fad story, and even in this day of mote
general liberality in politics and religion,
in the opinion of Britons, to lift a han£
against the Lord's anointed, is a crime oi
the blacked dye.—l endeavored to defend
the condtift of the mayor, but I fount:
the ft ream against me : One of the com
f>any whom_ I formerly refpefted, ob
served, that it was better for a nation tc
submit to the arbitrary mandates of
nobles and pritfts, than hazard the rifq°uc
and troubles which ensue on all revolu.
tions of government. This doctrine, al
though rchfhed by a major part of the
company, I conceive to be dangerous, and
luch as every American should spurn at.
The French are a brave and magnani
mous nation, and every principle of grati
tude and honor, call on us to be inlercfted
in their establishing ? free and federal go
vernment, the great wirti and object
■>f the mayor of Paris, afiifted by his zea
lous friends, the Jacobins, who will rif<
Tuperior to the " times which try mens :
fouls;" and like the immortal patriot!
if America, who never calculated thepovver,
wealth and trouble in contending with
G. Britain,butkeeping thegreat object evei
in view, in prosperity and adversity, flea
aily persevered: Such [ apprehend to be the
diarafters of the National Assembly, the
mayor and Jacobins.—Convinced that the
jffedlions of Lewis XVI. his court, the
noblesse, and clergy, are corrupt, depra
ved and treacherous—that under a con-
Ititution and form of government, which
made him the greatest prince in Europe
and enabled his court to be the firil in
rank and splendor, still they beheld the
dreadful effeds of arbitrary principles, in
viting a few inifcreants, rebels and trai
tors to a country which gave them birth,
to invade the kingdom ; assisting with the
bounty of munificence, of a great nation,
the major part of the immense sums which
they had allotted to his support and gran
deur, in paying those murderers, and, aid
ed by the Auftrians, Prussians, &c. who are
with fire and sword, carrying on the war
desola tion and death, in the fineft coun
try on earth, destroying the helpless, aged
and infirm—warring against a nation
who never offended them_who, agreea
ble to the laws of God and nature are
only defending thezafsjves, and who, faith-
to their treaties, have in our days beer
prodigal of their blood and treasure, tc
erve their allies in their days of distress
hefe blood-hounds at their gates, beholc
the chara&er of Louis XVI. the arifto
cratics, both laiety and clergy—deaf tc
t'ie ties of humanity—the voice of tlu
people, which is the voice of God—to re
pel these rapacious invaders—to defem
their country-, their wives and children
we behold them laying plots of the deep
eft kind to murder, poison, and a!Taffinat<
the national assembly, the mayor and Ja
cobins, in whom are included those cha
rasters whom the people look up to a:
their friends and political favioUrs. Ir
this helli(h design they are defeated. Pe
ri on appears the great and good man—
ndefatigabie in his station—at the head
_ largest city in Europe—ftirnifhing
upplies to the vast number of recruits
.vhich are hourly going on to their armies,
ind with the Jacobins, fubferibing largt
r ums for the support of the war. Whilt
:he wretched Louis, funk in effeminac)
ind flefh, remains in the temple, a ifpefta
:or of these events, which fuccefsful t«
reedom and happiness, fix his chara&ei
with those tyrants of old, Philip 11. tht
House of Stuart, and his great predc
:efTor, Louis XIV. That these Unitec
States may long enjoy the blrflings of ;
mild and equal government cf laws mad<
by themselves; and that no chara&er
from the island of Great-Britain may ob
tain posts of profit, honor or consequence
but iuch as have fully proved their politi
cal faith to be agreeable to our excellent
:onftitution, is the ardent hope of
EQUALITY.
Sketch of theprefen: situation ox Vermont
THE rapid settlement and growirr
importance of Vermont, is one of the mofl
lingular instances of the benefit and valu<
of abilities, enterprize and industry, b;
which a wilderness may be made a fruit
Ful field ; and where towns and villages—
where churches, schools, and colleges
wliere polished manners and well regulate<
society, may be exchanged for the dart
:?aunts of savage hearts and savage men
rom darkness to light in religion—f r0 n
:.ie gloom of ignorance to the bright cheer
ing sun-shine of knowledge.
Not thirty years ago, the territory o
Vermont was an uncultivated wild a nelc
.or speculation and land-jobbing, anions
the royal governments of New-York anc
New-Hampshire. She is now delivered
from the contention of those imperious
matters, nd filled with inhabitants, whofc
abilities enterprize, and patriotism, are no,
•quailed by any jlatc in the Union. Her in
habitants are composed of men who dif
Jained to be poor, and confined to tlu
("mall Wivifion of a little patrimonial inhe
ritanco. They have emigrated with theii
rvives and children and become indeoen
lent farmers and country gentlemen Re
Tpeftable as rulers and legislators— respec
table in wealth and members. In ever
quarter of it, the traveller meets men an'
women of the best character and education
Irving in a molt refpe£lable stile, acquainted
with their own country, encouraging in.
duflry, and aflilh'ng in building places o;
public worship, and planting schools.
Wheat and cattle, the flaple of Ver
raont, are annually sent in large quanti
ties into the other states and the BritiCr
provinces, having a large farp: i;3 besides
the supplying their inhabitants and nen
settlers.
Mad was that policy, which wished tc
fever Vermont from New-Hampshire
Hiitory will record and posterity laugh at
the leaders of the latter who refitted the
application of the former when (he request
ed to be united with them as one itatc
But happy was the decision for the profpe
nty of that hardy, resolute, and refpedla
ble territory. A magiilrate, representative,
or citizen, in Vermont, is equally venerable
with a similar officer in any other state,
They govern a wife, judicious, virtuous
and wealthy yeomanry, who enjoy a li
berty as pure as the air they breathe, whioh
■ s not exceeded on this globe. Health
reigns—and cheerfulnefs and vigor, those
greatest of earthly treasures, are the result
or their happy climate, happy govern
ment, and the noble spirit of its inhabit
tants.
This is not the fanciful rhapfoay of one
who indulges imagination— a visit into the
willfhow all to be facts.
cEOGR A P H Y.
Mathew Carey.
RefpSflfully submits to the Citizens of the Un
ted States, the following
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION#
An AMERICAN EDITION of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED.
°f which tbefe are the terms :
T T be io 4$ weekly numbers,
JL each containing three flieets, or twentv
four pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed
«vjtn new types on fine paper.
11. In the course of the work will be deli
vered about thirty large maps, of the fame size
as those in the European editions viz. mod of
them fneet maps on post paper.
Befdes the maps in the Britijb editions,
tbts -work Millcontain maps of as many of the
United States as cart be readily procured, execut'i
by the heft engraver, in the United States.
111. The priceof each number will be a quar.
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery.— ad.
vance required.
IV. The work will be put to press as soon aj
Lo.i copies are fubferibed for.
V. Subscribers who disapprove of the
woik, en the publication cf the thiee firft num
bers, are to be at liberty to return them, and
(hall have their money repaid.
VI. The fubferibers' names (hail be prefixed as
pztrons of the undertaking.
Perhaps there is no science more entertaining
and ufeful than geography. Ic reveals the dis
coveries of travellers—the remarkable curiosities
ot ail countries, in nature and art—the situati
on of provinces, cities, towns villages, rivers,
and mountains—in fine, the hillorv, manners,
cuSorfts, laws, forces, revenues, and government
ofdliferent nations.
It is an old observation, that " there is not a
son or daughter of Adam, but has forne concern
with geography," and that a knowledge of this
science is indiipenfable towards the itudy of hit—
tory with advantage or fatisfaflion. Indeed a
mart unacquainted with it, cannot discourse on
the nmoit common topic of the day
without betraying his ignoiance.
So much for geography generally. With rrf
pe£t to the present plan, let it futfice ta re'mark,
thatC utfcrie's Geography has been long acknow
ledged to be the belt in the Engiilh language;
however, the account of America in it has, from
obvious reafonj, been very erroneous and defec
tive. Ttieerrois of former eoitions will be cor
rected, and the defects fuppiied, by gentlemen of
abilities, who have engaged to superintend thia
undertaking, and tp avail themselves of all the
information that can be procured, to render ic
the molt complete edition extant.
The Printer earnestly foliciu the support of
his tellow citizens throughout the United Statea :
and Hi no depoiit is required, and every fubferi
berwill bo at liberty t> withdraw his name, if,
on trial, he Ihould disapprove of the work, he
hopes tiie fiiends ot science, and of American art#
and manufactures will cheerlolly and early pat
ronize this ufeful work, the gieatelt aud mofc
expensive, probably, ever yet attempted in Ame
rica, in the t-ypograpic-l Jin?, tha £ucyclop«Edi.
excepted.
Phila.. Nov. 9th. 1791.
Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, Utrj. zcth, 1792.
THE stockholders of the bank of the
United btutcs are hereby informed,
that according to the statute at' incorpora
tion, a g :aeral cleftion for twenty-live Di
rectors will be held at the bank of the
United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
Oil Monday the I. filth day of January
next, at ten o'clock in the forenoon.
And pnrfuurit to the eleventh fcttion of
the bye-laws the Stockholders of the said
bank are hereby notified to alleinble in ge
neral meeting, at the fair.e place, on
rhurfday th .' eighth day ot January next,
at five o*'cloi'rt iii the eveniii'.r- -"
l)y order of the PrelideutaiiJ Dire£tors..
JOHN KEAN, Calhier.
t- J- 5-
S-01 will be pvb'ifeij
THE SYSTEM o*
<0 /iort-3£a ucl,
UfeJ iy Mr. Lloyd, in !al\rv daw* tot Debates ef
Cmgrci i •—
A STEM so eafj, that any mm, of ordina
i ry capacity, may cle.ul/ c.iiiioteheod it i,.
nalt an hour, and fooit practice ir, m its fulled
extent, withuut any further inftruftuwi, than what
will be conveyed in a few pages,—the whole ART
being comprised in eight,?* Jimple tujrjtiiert, with
out any ot thofeperplexing, arbitrary marts, witi
which the learners of other fyltems are obliged t»
burden their memory, and eiaba..rafi theix prac
tice. '
Price, to Subscribers, Ore EhiUr :—to Noo-
Subscribers, a DuJlar and half.
Subscriptions received by Mcffis. Rice. Cook
fellers, Market-lheat, and by
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Peax-ilreet.
Half a Dollar to ue paii at las time of
fubferibmg.
ForJ,'ale, at the printing affice,a ft<a copies
if thefirjl volume of the National Gazette.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS AND & W A IN E,
AT TAXIS OF/ICE NO. 209 l H 'uX*STt£(T
MAR SIJTH-'STJiSI,
*«ItADIi/aiA«