Vol. I.
Mr. MERCER'S Speechonthe PUBLIC
DEBT.
ON Wednesday, March 28, the House
of Representatives being in com
mittee of the whole, on the Report of
the Secretary of the Treasury on the
Public Debt, —and the following reso
lution (proposed by Mr. Fitzfimons)
being under confederation, —vu.
Resolved, That the term, for receiv
ing on loan that part of the domestic
debt of the United States which yet re
mains unfubfcribed, be extended to the
frrft dav of next, on the fame
terms, as was provided by the ast mak
ifig provisiOn for the public debt of the
United States
Mr. Mercer rose, and offered a pro
pCfiticn to the committee to the follow
ing effect :—That the unfubfcribed debt
of the United States should be admit
ted to subscription on the following
principles.- 1 —" That subscribers should
be entitled to stock of the United States
for their principal debt, bearing an in
ffcreft quarterly at the rate of five per
cent, per annum, and for the interest
due thereon to the time of subscription
stock, bearing an interest payable quar
terly at the rate of three per cent, per
annum, until redeemed which being
Seconded by Mr. Parker, Mr. Mercer
proceeded to observe, That the refoluti
onofthe Hon. Member of Pennsylva
nia now before the committee, and to
which this was offered as an amend
ment, involved two questions, which,
however united in form and blended in
difcuflion, certainly required, by the
jufl order of deliberation, a Separate
vote.
The.jixfLtpieib'cin :was, jidiether we
should now propose a subscription 011
loan of the unfubfcribed debt of the
United States ? and then the second
would be, whether we should pursue
principles originating in speculative
theory, and on experiment abandoned
equally by bold projectors and blind ad
mirers ?—fuch as those of the present
funding system.
The House was now free to ast for
the benefit of the United States. The
holders had not come in by the time
limited in the firft proposal for sub
scription. They remained now credi
tors of the United States on the terms
of the original tontraft, and if the Unit
ed States proposed a new contrast, the\
•Were at liberty to offer such as a full
consideration of the fubjeft, and the be
nefits of experience now recommended,
1 he chief merit ordemcrit of the pro
position before the committee, rested on
the leading features of the old system.
The funding a debt or transferring by
-way of mortgage to a particular class ol
persons, whether citizens or foreigners,
the public resources, was in its fimplefl
forVn a momentous measure, but when
complicated by principles unalterable
and irrevocable by ourselves or posteri
ty, it assumed an awful al'peft.
Such principles had hitherto been a
dopted in a great measure without en
quiry, and swallowed without hesitati
on, but they included all that was deai
to society. Pbey should be now devel
oped, and the American mind tho
roughly informed on the prominent fea
tures at leafl, the irredeemable quality, anc'
the deferred Jlocft.
Called upon to ast, a mind in which
nature had implanted the feeds of jus
tice, would firft well examine the right,
and then cautiously coniider the po
licy.
That Congress have the right at all ol
mortgaging the revenues of the union,
er laying a tax irrepealable or unaltera
ble by a future Congress, is at least
questionable. In speaking of a right, I
mean what can or cannot be rightfully
dor e. I exclude all idea of force, vio
lence, or breach of public faith. On a
quefhon cf right, thele considerations
are withdrawn. If they can rightful
ly do it, they rightfully bind a n;xt
By P. f RENEAU: Publijkcd. Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
THURSDAY, April ig, 1792.
Congress :—who cannof, if they Oughi
not, cither alter or annul the obligation.
But if this right docs exist, that it does
not extend to the adiniflion of the prin
ciples of this resolution : That a defer
red (lock and an irredeemable quality
are in violation of natural right, and o
the constitution of the United States
can I think be easily demonstrated. /
Our natural reason, independent o:
the written constitution, will tell us
that a legislative body, deriving autho
rity from the fame source, and undei
the fame grant, must continue equal ir
power thro' every period of its exifl:
ence.—Different fefiions have tqua
rights.—lf a preceding feflion coulc
make laws which a subsequent feffior
could not repeal, the legislative powet
would be gradually abridged by the ex
ercise, and eventually annihilated. The
power of repeal is the renewing prin
ciple essential to its existence ; and al
tho' the mutability of human affairs may
not require, and convenience may have
suggested the rule that it should not be
exercised during the fame session, yet
this rule does not defhoy the right it
flili is frequently, and always will be
exercised whenever Occasion shall re
quire it. But this right of repeal has
never been doubted as applying to a
subsequent feflion, except in the singu
lar caic of mortgaging revenues o-r lav
ing an irrepealable tax. As this is the
most important of all legislative pow
ers, and that which in fact includes al!
others, it demands serious attention,
rheexiftence of a nation depends or
the poflefGon of resources. 1 hefe have
their natural limits, beyond which they
cannot keejftended. - A iliati vir pow :
er of anticipating the public resources
or transferring the revenue, has no li
mits defined or prescribed until it ar
rives at the physical inability to raise
more supply. They who anticipate
are the judges of the exigences of the
slate, and the extent of the funds re
quired. But as exigences will happen
hereafter as well as now, and as gov
ernment will always have the natural
right of subsisting itfelf, and providing
for future exigences, as they arrived
they will find the necessity, and With it
the natural right of reverling the sys
tem ultimately, and of repealing the
mortgages already made, to the extent
that the necessity in their judgment mav
require. The right existing to undo
what was done, decides this question,
that nothing can have been rightfully
done by the preceding legislature.
which the succeeding legillature cannot
as rightfully undo.
A power then of mortgaging the pub
lie revenue or layingan irrepealable tax.
being repugnant to natural reason, will.
I trust, not be found in the the
conflitution of the United States, and
will appear utterly inconsistent with its
spirit.
Generally speaking, the legislative
power is conferred on the Congress oi
the United States ; each succeeding ses
sion being equally the Congress of the
United States with the preceding, mult
derive equal rights from a grant confin
ed and limited to no particular feflion.
And in no particular part of the con
flitution is any such power expressed or
implied : It is not in the power of lay
ing taxes ; because this is laying taxes
without repeal, and there is no such ad
ditional clause in the constitution. The
power of laying taxes is granted in the
fame manner as all the other fpecified
powers : if they can exercifethis right
fully without a power of repeal or mod
ification, they may exercise all the pow
ers in the fame manner ; they are all
given in the fame terms; this will not,
i suppose, be contended for.
Is such a power included in the pow
er paying thedebts of the united States?
I apprehend not—lf Congress h:.<l ti:e
money, they might pay the debts, no
doubt; but if they have not. and arc o-
bliged to resort to taxes to raise the
Tioney —as it :s phyitcallv itnpolFible to
•aifc by their authority all the money,
without interfering with the rights of
i future Congress—all that is incum
bent on them to do, is to raise as much
js they can, —and then the unperform
;d ohlig.ition descending upon the fuc
ceetitng legilluture with equal force,
constitutes the true and only real prin
ciples of public credit in a free govern
ment ; for no theory will admit the pe
tition, nor will practice lupport the idea
that the principles of morality and the
force of public faith, will be confined
to one session : —Reafon and experience
[hew it, that these principles will aid a
future legislature as well as ourselves—
hey then will do as we have done,
fontrive to pay as much as they can.—
i this credit—& credit-founded on the
erms of the constitution—the United
Mates are empowered to.borro'.v money;
he constitution has admitted as of noto
riety—well understood by the money
endtfrs. The fame power was given to
he old Congress, to borrow money on
he credit at the United States—they
:onfeffedly had no power of mortga
ging the resources of the government.
Hid laying an irrepealable tax—for they
notorioudy had no power of laying a
tax at all. Yet they borrowed money a
t)road, before we could be considered as
i nation, in ihe midst of a war, that
shook the credit of an old established
and opulent adversary ; and they fuf
taincd a credit at home, which, howe
ver productive of individual lofles, ear
ned us triumphantly through a contcft
that coff our enemies, one hundred and
ten millions ftertrflg.'
It may be said they contraftcd a debt
that we are now called on to pay—Ad
mitted, and that it is a sacred debt } —
but the original holders, who have cer
tainly as much claim to the exertions oI
government as any subsequent purcha
sers, trusted to the old constitution
without this power, and the 6th article
of the new constitution places this debl
precisely on the fame footing as it wa;
before, so that there can be no such claitr
on the original contrast.
But it may be further said, that they
have made a new contrafty since the a
doption and on the faith of the new go
vernment. Then let them shew undei
what part of that constitution, eith.:i
in letter or f'pirif, they caa expefl this
mortgage, this irrepealable tax, in theii
favour. Having thus examined th.-.
letter let us advert to the spirit.
Every free constitution made for the
use of man, infers that the various ne
ceflities and unforefeen events which
chaflerife human affairs forbid the ir
repealable quality of laws. By our con
stitution, and that of every governmeni
that really contemplates the rights ol
freemen, the grant and distribution ol
taxes, or the public contributions, ii
confined to the representatives of the
people—When I speak of the reprefen
tatives of the people, I do not speak ac
cording to the new fafhioned doctrine:
of the day, that the executive and fenaU
are representatives of the people,—the)
only represent the people in my idea
whom the people themfclves deputih
to represent them ; If persons elettec
by the people elect others, they are no
the representatives of the people—the)
may be representatives of the reprefen
tatives of the people, which is a ver)
different thing in form and effect. Tin
power of laying taxes the burthen ol
whjcli must fall on the great mass of
the indufhious poor, who feel even
deduction from the fruits of their laboui
as a diminution of the lources of life,
should reft with those immediate repre
sentatives, over whom thcfc persons
have a constant controul, to whom the)'
are responsible. and whom they may fre
quently remove—-but if one weak or
corrupt set of representatives, could, by
an imprudent or wicked ast, transfer
Numb. 50.
all the attainable relources of'focietv
in such a manner that a future set of re
presentatives could have no power over
them without the concurrence of the exe
cutive and senate—-then all this princi
ple of the constitution is utterly evaded.
But it maybe said, exigences of date
will arise ; wars may happen, when it
will not be poftible to raiie the necelfa
fy supplies within, the year. What is
to be inferred from this ? Only that we
must anticipate and borrow. This
power is fcertainly given to the new
government, and was to the old : It is
not denied : but it has been explained.
Is it contended that we cannot borrow
with pledging particular resources or
laying irrepealable taxes ?---Surely no
because we have certainly borrowed
without, still do it, and all nations do
it ,; and un less this can be proved, no
right can be inferred; for a right not ex
□ refsly given, is only to be inferred
rom necessity. If it should be said
:hat we cannot borrow on such good
erms, this quits the ground of right,
& dwindles into a que (lion of expediency
and convenience, on which I shall od
lerve ; but for the present, it is to be
remarked, that exigences and wars
may happen hereafter, and at all times
as well as now, and at any other time ;
and on these principles will be found
as found arguments for the rip-ht of re
peal and revocation as of anticipation.
Funding systems and anticipations
have endeared public debts to all admi
nistrations, because they get into their
hands and disposition (and make them
o account when you can) all the at
tainable rcfources of society, without
he necessity of frequently applying to
he representatives of the people who
lave usually accompanied their fuppLiei
o government, with an enquiry into
.ts errors, and a rectification of its abu
ics, which are sometimes very inconve
nient things to admin iftrations.
The right has, I believe, ever been
defended on this principle : It has been
urged that a nation is a body politic
and corporate, and never dies ; and
has, therefore, a right to contrast, and
bind itfelf by its contra&s. The prin
ciple, although not founded in analogy,
may be true to a degree, and merits ex
amination. Society, by law, may dif
aofe of wealth to individuals upon fpe
nfied terms, and create fictitious per
onages, and powers with fpecified
-ights This is a modification of the
:reature of society, by the creative
land of the constitution ; but we
Tiould be unsupported by anyprinci
f>le, if we were to apply these qualities
:o the constitution which is the creator;
md which acknowledges no superior
aut God, the natural laws Which he im
printed in the mind of man, and the
power of the people who made it, and
by express compa&, defined its quali
ties, powers,arid attributes: from neith
er of which sources, can we derive the
qualities thus contended for; but even
to admit the analogy ; every society, I
believe, that has created this legal fiftj
on of a corporate body, have found by
experience, that ufufruftuaries are so
unmindful of those that are to come af
ter them, that they have generally, if
not univerlally, limited their alienati
3ns, and mortgages of their revenues, to
the fpacc of ? 1 years; after which,
the obligation of the contrast ceal'es.
In fine, should we admit, which is re
ally a questionable point, that a major
ity of society, or the present generation
as adult age (capable of contra&ing)
:ould, by themfelvasj pfirfonally, or by
:heir representatives constitutionally
aind themselves by contract, and mort
gage their industry ; so that a future as
semblage of the fame perfens, or their
representatives could avoid
the obligation, but would remain bound:
yet, as it is a slender and equivocal right,
it should at lead be exerciled with some
(See Last Page. JCONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, April 16.
A memorial from the truftces ofthe fir ft
Presbyterian congregation of Elizabeta
town, in the state of New-Jersey, was read
and ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Gerry prefen eel a report from the
fe'ect committee, to whom was referred
tlie memorial of Signor Ceracchi, relative
to the national monument.
On motion of Mr. Goodhue, a committee
of five was appointed to examine the ie
nort ofthe Secretary of the Treasury, ie
lative to compensation', for the revenue
officers, and to report a bill or bills on the
fubjeft. c ,
Mr. Secretary Lear, by order of the
Frefideut of the United States, delivered
the following communications,
New-York, April 10, 179-'
SIR.
•\S we could not, in our opinion, con
vey the enc'ofed extracts from the minutes
of the circuit court now fitting here, to
the Congress of the United States-, in (0
refpeftful and proper a manner as through
the" Prelident, we take the liberty to train
mit them to you, and to request the favour
of you to communicate them to that ho
norable body.
We have the honor to be,
with pcrieft refpeft.
Sir, . „
your most obedient lervantSj
f John Jay.
- Signed < Wm. Cufhing.
I. James Duane.
ThePrefident of the
United States.
Ataftated circuit court of the Uniter
States held for the diftrift of New-York
at the city of New-York, on Thursday the
fifth day of April, one thousand seven hun
dred and ninety two, at ten o'clock Ante
Meridiem.
Present.
The lion. John Jay, Esq. Chief Jus
tice ofthe United States ;
Thehon. W. Cufhing, Kfq. one of the
alfociate Justices of the Supreme
court of the? United States ;
The hon. Tames Duane, Esq. Judge oi
the diftrift of New-York.
The court proceeded to take into con
sideration the following ast of the Cpngrefi
ofthe United States, viz :
" An ast to provide for the settlement
of the claims of widows and orphans bar
red by the limitations heretofore eflablifil
ed, and to regulate the claims to invalic
pensions." .
(Here follows the ast verbatim)
The court were thereupon unanimoufl)
«f opinion and agreed,
That by the conftiiution of the Unitec
States, the government thereof is divided
into three diftinft and independent bran
ches ; and that it is the duty of each tc
abstain from, and tooppofe encroachment:
on either ; —
That neither the Lcvijlative nor the txecu
five branches, can conititutionally assign tc
the judicial any duties but Inch a; are
properly judicial and to be performed in ;
judicial manner ;
That the duties afiigned to the circuii
courts by this ast, are not of that descripti
on ; and that the ast itfelf does not ap
pear to contemplate them as such, in a:
much as it fubjefts the decision? of these
courts, made pursuant to those duties, firfl
to the consideration and suspension of the
Secretary at war, and then to the revifior
of the legislature : Whereas, by the con
flitution, neither the Secretary at war, 1101
any other executive officer, nor even the
legislature, are authorized to fit as a courl
of errors, on the judicial acts or opinion
of this court.
As therefore the business, assigned to thi
court by the ast, is not judicial, nor direc
ted to be performed judicially ; the a£
can only be considered as appointing com
miffioners for the purposes mentioned in it
by official instead of personal descriptions ;
That the judges of this court regart
themselves as being the commissioners de
fignated by the ast, and therefore as beinj
at liberty to accept or to decline their office
That as the objects of this ast are exceed
ingly benevolent, and do real honor to the
humanity and justice of Congress; and a;
the judges desire to manifeft 011 all propel
occasions, and in every proper manner
their high refpeft for the national legisla
ture they will execute this ast in the capa
city of commissioners :
That, as the Legislature have a right tc
extend the fe.Tion of this court for any term
which they may think proper by law to as
sign, the term of 5 days, as directed by this
act, ought to be punctually observed : —
That the judges of this court will, as
nfuaL during the feflion thereof, adjourn
the court from day to day, or other fliort
periods, as circumstances may render pro
per ; and that they will regularly, between
die adjournments, proceed, as commifiion-
•rs, to execute the business of this act, in
the fame court-room or chamber.
A true extract from the minutes.
(Signed) Robert Troup, clerk.
A message was delivered by Mr. Secieta
ry Otis, informing the Houle that the Pre
sident of the United States had notified the
Senate of. his having approved and figued
in ast for altering the times for holding the
;ircuit courts in certain diftrifts ot the
Jnited States,- and an ast concerning con
ills and vice consuls.
\ message by Mr. Secretary Lear, in
ormed the House, that the President had
ipproved and signed an ast for ail apporti
inment of Representatives among the lev
rrai dates, according to the firlt cnumera
i°n - - ,
Pursuant to the order of the day, tlie
'■Joufe resolved itfelf into a committee of
he whole, (Mr. B.Bourne in the chair) and
iroceeded to consider a bill (from the Se
late) "for regulating processes in the courts
jf the United States, and providing com
lenfations for the officers of the said courts,
md for jurors and witnesses," together
vith the amendments thereto reported by a
elect committee.
After some time spent therein, the com
nittee rose and reported progress, and the
Joule adjourned.
Tuesday, April 17.
A bill to provide for calling forth the
nilitia to execute the l«vs, fnpprefs infur
•eftions, and repel invasions, was read
wice, and committed for Thursday next.
The committee on the memorial of J.
"eracchi, brought in a report, in which,
li ter reciting a resolution of the Congref;
,mder the late confederation, for ereftir.c
in Equestrian Statue to the memory oi
Seneral Washington—the report fays,
That the honor and dignity of govern
nent require a speedy execution of the a
jove refolution —and nominates theSecre
:ary of State, the Secretary of the Treafu
-y, and the Secretary of War, to fuperin
:end the business—laid on the table.
Two reports from the Secretary of the
Treasury were read—the firft dating the
;:<ports of the several States—the other
efpefting additional appropriations for the
ervices of the current year ; the last re
jort was referred to a feleft committee,
.vith inftruftions to report a bill—report to
>e printed in the interim.
A third report was read from the Secre
ary on the memorial of the marine society
if Bolton, refpefting a marine hofpital—al
o on a memorial on the fame fubjeft from
Virginia : Referred to a feleft committee
onfifting of Mr. Ames, Mr. Sterrett, and
Vlr. Parker—
A report from the Secretary on a num
ber of petitions was also read.
A petition from W. & J. Symmes, own
ers of the ship Brothers, cast away on her
oyage from New-York to Philadelphia,
iraying to be discharged from a bond given
o the collector of New-York for the du
:ies on the cargo of said ship —read and re
erred to a feleft committee.
A petition from in behalf of himfelf
md other French emigrants, settlers at
3allrpolis—praying a right of exemption
0 a tract of land on the Miffifippi, near the
French settlement of Illinois, on paying
:ompenfation for the fame ; read and re
erred to a committee of five.
In committee of the w hole on the bill
"or railing a further sum of money for the
uoteftion of the frontiers.— Mr. B. Bourne
n the chair.
The committee proceeded in the difcuf
ion as far as the 6th feftion ; and made
bme amendments ; they then rose and re
ported progress.
A meifage by Mr. Secretary Otis, inform
:d the House that the Senate
Have palled an ast, authorizing the grant
md conveyance of a certain tract of la:id tc
:he Ohio company of afl'ociates, with an
amendment- Adjourned.
The following communications, from the
President of the United States, were read in the
House of Representatives on Friday last.
Gentlemen of the Senate and
Hcmji of Representatives,
I Have thought it proper to lay before you,
1 communication of the 1 lth infl. from the mi-
Jiifler plenipotentiary of Great Britain, to the
ecretary of slate, relative 10 the commerce ol
he two countries; together with their explana
ory correspondence, and the secretary of flate'i
ettcr to me on the fubjeft.
GEO. WASHINGTON,
April 13, 1792.
Philadelphia, April 13, 179 c.
SIR,
I have the honor to lay before you a commu
nication from Mr. Hammond, miniller pleni
jotentiarv of his Britannic majefly, covering
i clattfe of a statute of that country relative to its
ommeicewhh this; and notifying a rfetermin
ition to carry it into execution henceforward.—
Conceiving that the determination announced
:ould not be really meant as extensively as the
words import, 1 asked and received an explana
tion from the ininifler, as exprefTcdin the lcttei
and answer herein enclosed ; and, 011 conlidera
tion of all circumllanccs, I cannot but confide
in the opinion exprefied by him, that its tole
abject is to exclude foreign veficls fiom ihf
islands of Jeifey and Guernsey.
The want of proportion between the motives
: xprelfed and the measure, its magnitude and
:onfequenc'es, total silence as to the proclama
lion on which the intercourse between the twc
;ountries has hitherto hung, and of which, it
his broad ftnfe, it would be a revocation, ant!
.he recent manifeftations of the disposition oi
hat government, to concur with this in mutual
jfiices of friendlhip and good will, fuppott his
:ondruftion.
The minider moreover afTured me verbally,
hat he would immediately write to his court to.
in explanation, and in'the mean time lsofopi
lion, that the usual intercourse of commerce
ictween the two countries (Jerley and Guein
ey excepted) need not be fuipended.
I have the honor to be, with sentiments o
he mofl profound refpeft and attachment, fir,
four mofl obedient and moll humble servant,
TH. JEFFERSON.
The Prefidentof the United States.
Philadelphia, April it, *79®-
SIR,
I Have received by a circular dispatch frorr
ny court, direflions to inform this government
hat, considerable inconveniencies having ariler
rom the importation of tobacco in foreign vcf
cls into the ports of his majesty's dominions
ontraryto the ast of the 12 th Charles 2. chap
8. fed. 3. (commonly called the navigation ast,
: has been determined in fuHire ftriftly to en
oice this clause, of which I take the liberty o
:nclo!ingto you a copy ; and I have the honoi
0 be, with pet Eeft elleem and icfpeft, hr,
Your mod obedient humble servant.
(Signed) GEO. HAMMOND.
Mr. Jefterfon.
12 Car. 2. Chap. 18. Sett. 3.
AND it is furiher enacted by the authority
iforefaid, That no goods or commodities what
oevcr, ot the giowth, prod union, or manufact
ure of Africa, Alia, or America, or of any pari
hereof, which are defenbed or laid down in the
tlual maps or charts of those places, he import
ed into England, Ireland or Wales, illands ol
Guernsey and Jersey, or town of Berwick up
in Tweed, in any other Ihip or {hips, velicl 01
■effels, whatsoever, but in Inch as do truly and
vithout fiaud, belong o ly to the people ol
ingland or Ireland, Dominion of Wales, 01
own of Berwick upon Tweed, or of the lar.ds,
Hands, plantations or territories in Asia, Africa
>r America, to his majetly belonging, as the
iiopii-tors and right owners thereof, and where
>f ihe maflerand three-fourths at lead of the
nariners are Enghlh, under the penalty of the
orfeiture of all such goods and commodities,
ind of the (hip or vessel in which they were im
jorted, with all her guns, tackle, furniture, am
nunition and apparel, one moiety tohis majefiy,
lis heirs and fucceffo;s, and the other moiety to
11m or them who {hall seize, inform, or sue for
he fame, in any court of record, by bill, in
ormation, plaint or other action, wherein no
floine, protection, or wager of law {hall be al
owed.
Philadelphia, April 12, 1792.
SIR,
1 Am this moment favored with the letter you
!id me the honor of writing yederday, covering
he extract of a Britifli llatute forbidding the ad
nilfionof foreign velfels into any ports of the
iritifh dominions, with goods or commodities
>f the growth, production, or manufacture ol
'Ymerica.
The effect of this appears to me so extenfivc,
is to induce a doubt whether I underdantl iight
y the determination to enforce it, which you
lotify, and to oblige mc to a[k of you. whethei
A*e are to consider it as so far a revocation of the
rroclamation of your government, regulating
he commerce between the two countries, and
hat henceforth no articles of the growth, pro
lusion, or manufacture of the United States,
ire to be received in the ports of Great-Bn
ain, or Ireland, in vefiels belonging to the citi
zens of the United States ?
I have the honor to be, with sentiments of the
noil perfect efleem and refpefl, fir,
four mod obedient and mod humble servant,
TH. JEFFERSON.
The minider plenipotentiary of Great-Britain.
Philadelphia, April 12, 1792.
SIR,
IN answer to your letter of this day, I have
he honor of observing, that I have no other in-
Iruftions upon the fub'eft of my commutiica
ions, than such as arc contained in the circular
hfpatch, of which 1 dated the purport in nu
ttier dated yederday. I have, however, 110
hlficulty in aituring vou, that the result of my
)erfoijialconviction is, that the determination ol
lis majefiy's government to enforce the clause ol
he ast of navigation (a copy of which 1 tranf
nitted to you) with rel'peft to the importation ol
:ommodities in foreign vessels, lias origr ated in
onfequence of the many frauds that have taken
jlace 111 the importation of tobacco into his ma
edy's dominions, in foreign velfels, and is not
mended to militate againd the proclamation, oi
jvder of the king in council, rcgulatingthe com
nercial intercourse between Great-Britain and
he United States, which I have every reafonto
iclicve fiillexifls ii; full force, as I have not had
he mod distant intimation of its being revoked.
I have the honor to be, with the mod perfeCt
ifleein and consideration, fir,
Your moll obedient humble servant,
(Signed) GEO. HAMMOND.
Mr. Jelferfori.
PHILADELPHIA.
April ig, 1792.
We hear that David Rittenhouse,
F-fq- is appointed Director of the MINT of
:he United States.
A late letter from Charleston mentions
:hat the want of (hipping to carry off the
•ice and other produce from that and other
Darts of Carolina had been the occasion of
ice falling to nine {hillings sterling per
icolb. and tobacco to twelve—The ftiip
)ing had mostly failed by the middle of
Vlarch, f<p as to leave the port of Charlef
:on scarcely without a vellel; a circum
lance very uncommon at that time »f the
/ear.
ExtraS of a letter from Mommgahela, 15 miles
from PittJLurgh, dated April 9.
" We are all in tolerable peace and qui
et here, altho' there are some rumours of
lifturbance in the wilderness, a woman and
everal children killed, down the Ohio,
ome Icattered houses burnt by draggling
ndians, Bcc. On the iftday of this month
omc Indians made their appearance near
A'heeling, and took a woman and two boys
irifoners. The)' were pursued, but to no
mrpofe : it is feared they killed the woman
ind one of the boys. The other has since
eturned to the settlement, with the loss of
lis scalp, and a bad cut on the throat, which
lowever milled the windpipe. —The Indi
in war has much injured the boat-building
>ufinefs at present, but am in hopes the army
A'ill make up, in some measure, that loss. —
This goes by Mr. , who came about a
■ear ago to this country to fettle. Unhap
>ily, he some time since met with a certain
>erfon named Mr. Hardwork, with whom
ie has had a falling out ; and in confe
rence thereof, returns rather in disgust.''
It is a truth beyond contradiction, that
he manufacture of paper mull: soon decline
n this state, uulefs the generality of people
an be induced by some means or other, to
jreferve their rags. The great complaint
it all the paper-mills is want of rags ; the
ailure of the necelfary supply of which must
oon raise the price of home-manufactured
printing paper so much as to cause a re
lewal of the importation of this very necef
ary article from France, Holland, and
Sreat Britain.
Gen. William Hull, an officer of the
Vlaffachufetts line of the late army, now in
:his-city, has been commissioned by the offi
cers of that Tine, to present their memorial
:o Congrefsonthefubjeftof a further com
jenfation for themselves and the soldiers
,vho served during the war. Finding this
lietuorial cannot be attended to by Con
rrefs during the present session, he has ad
irefled a circular letter to the officers of
:he lines of other slates, urging the necessity
jf their coming forward at the beginning'of
he next fellion and petitioning for the pay
nent of that debt from the public to them,
•vhich actually exfed at the time when the
funding fyjlcm was adopted—This demand,
loyvever, is confined, in the memorial men
tioned, to thole who enlisted in the year
: 777 for three years, or during the war;
jther dalles of the army being considered
ir, already fully compensated.—This class,
>lficer and soldiers, received certificates in
oayment, and returned home in an embar
ked iituation, being soon after obliged,
hro' necessity, to part with their certifi
cates for the pricc that was going.—Front
:he proviiidn made by the present govern
nent, the purchasers received an immense
idvantage —part or the debt, however, ori
ginally due, was l'aved by the public,—the
wo per cent for ten years on the principal
if the whole debt, and half the interest
.vhich had accumulated ; which remnant
s still in the hands of the public, and will
10 more than discharge the original debt.
We hear from Ireland, that the bill for
he relief of the Roman Catholics in that
(land, lately prefenced to the Irilh House
>f Commons, has been thrown out by a
;reat majority.
Accounts from New-York fay, that the
ailures in that city may be fairly slated at
hree millions of dollars.—The city is ill a lan-
Uiilliing condition —veflels laying at the
'vharves without any one to receive their
cargoes— the fi-eculators either in jail, ru
ninating over bulhels of loose papers,
ocked up in garrets, or fled into remote
ind defolaJe parts of Jersey \—Verily, bre
hren, ye ought to have forefcen these things and
ixioided them.
A pilot boat has lately been dispatched
o Great Britain, from N. York, it is said,
ivith an immense quantity of fix per cent
Certificates. If in,' has luck, they will
:ome to a good market: as Virgil fays,
Quonon fpeculantia pectora cogis,
Aurifacni Fames!
Letters from England mention that Mr.
kVignell, the comuliuu from this city, is
iffailed with crowds of the tag-rag and
;ob-tail of the ti.eatneal houses in London.
\ll ambitious to Unit upon the republican
tage of America, fine© they have heard of
:he new theatre in Philadelphia.
Late letters from the westward informthat the Kentucky fide cf the Oino river,
in those parts, is infected with multitudes
of Indians—this greatly alarmed the inha
bitants, hi any of whom had moved oft, and
others were preparing to follow; the begin
ning of March, i4perfons were killed by
the Indians on that part of the frontier.—
Maj. Butler had arrived at Winchester from
Fort Walhington in a weak and decrepid
state, owning to the wounds he received on
the 4th of November—This gallant officer
has since arrived at his farm, near Carlisle.
Thomas Sim Lee, Esquire, is appointed
governor of the state of Maryland, in the
room of governor Plater, deceased.
On the r4th instant, Mr. Seton, cashier
of the Bank of New-York, purchased (lock
to a considerable amount —Six per cents at
twenty (hillings, three ditto at twelve, and
deferred debt at twelve and fix—private
sales the fame day at 15/6 —tof. and to/~6.
It is fortunate (fays a Daily paper) for
this country, that plentiful orders for Eng
lish goods preceded the late fall of paper,
which has so deeply alfe&ed private credit.
If the crisis had occurred rather sooner,
cash only would have obtained in Britain
what credit may now have procured.
All the late accounts from India agree
that the utmost vigour of the British force
in India was to be exerted the next cam
paign against Tippoo Saib. It is reduced
to a certainty that the views of theEnglifh
are to extirpate this prince, and rid them
selves of an enemy who is the main obfta
ele to their complete conquert of that part
of India. Persons of cool judgment, how
ever, in India, have given it as their opinion
that this tyrant (as he is called by the Bri
tish) will not be aneafy conquest. He is at
the head of an immense army, is a great
general and politician, bred to war from
the cradle, and perfectly acquainted with
European military discipline ; and is besides
at heme, fighting for life and empire.
A late London paper has the following
paragraph : " There is such a general ad
vance on all forts of goods, that it is thought
the less of them is fentto America, the less
blame willthe merchants and factors expe
rience ; and if the Americans were to (ill -
pend their commifiions for one season by
unanimous consent, it would be the means of
bringing our workmen into their proper
Stations; at present they are without con
troul, every factor daily attending the ma
nafaclures. and ready to (natch the work
whether finiihed or not. "
The King of Sweden, after receiving
the King of France's notification of his ac
ceptance of the constitution, wasfo dilato
ry in making a-reply, that the 3Frchch en
voy, tired out with the tedious procedure
of his Swedish Majesty, departed without
it. On the 19th of December, however, a
Courier was dispatched with the answer,
and certain other communications to be
made to other European courts, as well as
to the French Princes. It is certain that
Ruflia afrs, in this matter, in concert with
Sweden, there being a conttant correspond
ence kept up, and me(Teng'?rs continually
on the road between Stockholm and St.
Peterlburg. [Leyd. Gaz.]
The regency of Algiers have fixed their
price of peace with Sweden at forty thou
sand ducats—Mr Skoldebrand, intended
Swedish consul for that (late, is now rbout
(etting out to negociate a peace with those
Barbarians. [Leyd. Gaz.]
Letters from Mayenne, inform that the
elector has notified the Prince of Conde in
the moll prefiing manner to quit his domi
nions, with the emigrants. —The vigorous
proceedings of the National Aflembly and
the declaration of the King of France have
reduced the French princes to so very criti
cal a situation, that they have sent to afl;
the answers ofdilferent coucts on what they
may expe£t. [Leyd. Gaz.~]
Petitions have been handed in to the
British House of Commons, from almost
every county in England, for the abolition
of the African (lave trade.
During nearly the whole month of Janu
ary last successive (hocks of earthquake:
were felt at Paul's Bay, aud other parts ol
Canada in that vicinity.—The (hocks seem
ed to proceed east and west—Houses,
churches, and many buildings of inferioi
consequence have been either throwr
down, or considerably damaged. Old ob
servers in Canada fay, that earthquakes,
more or less violent, return in that part of
the country every twenty-five years.
French accounts from Bonrdeaux [ vie
Salem) inform that their minister of the
marine had been called on for a state of
the navy, and to report in what space of
time forty fail of the line could be got rea
dy for fea —paper money had depreciated
40 per cent —a war with the German pow
ers was expected to take place—specie dis
appearing, and commerce in a languifhinj;
condition.
Abundance of riots and inftirre&ions
have taken place at Dunkii ', in France, in
confeqence of a rife in the pricc of bread
corn, owing to the depreciation of the
National paper money, and consequent fear
city of cash. Several of the rioters have
' been killed by tlie military, more wound
ed, and a considerable number seized ant
thrown into j3il —all was quiet* when the
last accounts came aw ay.
Dr. Wolcot (the celebrated Peter Pin
dar, in poetry) is under a prosecution at
the court of King's Bench, in London, at
the suit of Lord Lonfdale, for publishing a
libellous poem against his lordthip. In
that poem, Pindar in iijftrnoting Mr. Opie,
a celebrated painter, how to draw the pic
ture of the devil, had recommended hini
to take the countenance of Lord Lonfdale.
European accounts as late as the 2-th of
February are come to hand ; the molt ma
terial intelligence till that date is as follows:
—Eight millions, two hundred thousand
pounds sterling, of the capital of the
national debt of Great Britain, has been
paid off since 1783. —Great alarms of war
and invasion were spread through France,
supposed to be chiefly owing to emiflaries
from the emigrants : a good understanding
did not prevail between the National As
sembly and the new Minister of War ; the
officers of the regiment de SoifTonnois,
except five, had deferred their flag : the
Emperor of Germany had declared the
French emigrants under his protection, and
remitted them two millions of roubles, See.
[F.nglilh papers are bur only authority for
these particulars relative to France.]
Advices from Cape Francois as late as
March 24, fay that two thousand troops ar
rived there from France the day previous
to that date. A i'ew clave before, the na
tional troops had an engagement with the
blacks, in which fix hundred of the latter
were killed, including two white generals.
More troops were daily looked for.
A Mr. Pugilafli aivertifes, in a New-York
paper, to teach the art ofbpxing, ticking, horse
whipping, and flaying atJhort cudgells. By this it
would seem there is much ill humour abroad in
that city.
[The following contains a mere particular account,
than in our lajl, of the refufal of the Judges oj
the circuit court to take cognizance of the caj't.
of William Heyburn, an invalid ojjicer~\
A memorial was presented from an in
valid officer, setting forth that he had ap
plied to the Judges of the circuit court in
this city, to be put on the pension lift pur
suant to a late law of Congress ; and that
the court having refufed to take cognizance
of his cafe, he was obliged to apply to Con
gress for relief.
The fitting judges were Messrs. Wilson.
Blair, and Peters ; and from an account
which Mr. Boudinot gave in his place, it
appeared that the court thought the ex
amination of invalids a very extraordinary
duty to be imposed on the judges : —and
looked on the law, which imposes that du
ty, as an unconstitutional one, inasmuch a<
it directs the Secretary of War to state the
miflakes of the judges to Congress foi
their reviiion ; they could not therefore
accede to a regulation tending to render
the judiciary fubjefl to the legislative anc
executive powers, which from a regard for
liberty and the constitution, ought to be
kept carefully diftinfl: ; it being a primarj
principle of the utmost importance, thai
no declfion of the judiciary department
fliould, under any pretext, be brought in
revision before either the legislative or ex
ecutive departments of the government
neither of which have in any inltance a re
vifionary authority over the judicial pro
ceedings of the courts ofjuftice.
Another J object ion, on the part of the
judges, was,'that whereas there are law:
now 111 force, prefcribihg a day, beyonc
which the courts shall not lit, this new lav\
declares that the court (hall fit five day;
for the purpose of hearing claims, whethet
tiiey be offered or not; and leaves nothing
:o the discretion and integrity of the judges
to lit as long as they have public bulinef
to do.
This being the firft instance, in which s
court of jufti.ee had declared a law of Con
gress to unconstitutional, the novelty o:
the cafe produced a variety of opinion
with refpeft to the meafiares to be takei
on the occasion. At length a committef
of five was appointed to enquire into th<
facts contained in the memorial, and tc
report thereon.
During the course of the debate, it wa
mentioned, that the judges of the circuit
court in the state ofN. \ orkhad confentet
to examine invalids pursuant to the law ii
question, but on this principle : Congreft
they thought, have a right in appointing
commiflioners for any special purpose, tc
delignate the persons, as well by any offici
al titles with which they are veiled, as b)
their proper names. Wherefore althougl
they would not, in their judicial capacity,
undertake the examination of invalids,-
yet, as commiflioners, they devoted eacl
day an hour to the btifinefs, after the ad
journment of the court.
Mr. Murray urged the neceflity of pas
sing a law to point out some regular mode,
in which the judges of the courts of the
United States shall give -official notice oi
their refufal to ast under any law of Con
grefs, on the ground of uncouftitutionality.
No regular motion however was made
on the fubjeft, which lies over for futurt
ccnfideration;
A plan has been issued in Charleston
(S. C.) for establishing a Tontine Bank in
that city ; which has been agreed to at a
numerous ancl refpe&able meeting of the
inhabitants.-—The capital stock of this
Bank is not to exceed 150,000 dollars, tc
be divided into 3750 (hares, each share be
ing 40 dollars, payable in gold or silver on
ly—four dollars being to be paid at the
time of fublcribing—fixteen dollars on the
15th of July next, and 20 dollars on the
1 jth of Jan, 1793 —The subscription \yas tc
be opened 011 the 9th instant.
Some persons, both in their writings and con
versation, seem mightily anxious for the reputa
tion of our government. —Certain it is, foreign
ers inuft entertain a very contemptible idea o!
it, when ihey lee that fcurrihty and black
guardifin are the chief weapons uied 111 ils de
lence.
A stale trick (fays a corespondent) is at
tempted to be played oft' upon us by certain
high flying writers of the day—becaiife the
abuses of the federal government afe
treated with some freedom of animadver
iion by th'ofe who wish to fee a pure repub
lican system preserved in this country, cer
tain persons would have it that the govern
ment itfelf is attacked in all its principles-
Flattering any government, even the mof
rigidly virtuous, seems to be 101 l labour.
It can effect no good purpose whatever-
Governments are a fort of things that wil
in every country always take <are <?f them
selves; whereas, the people, without the
ftri&eft vigilance, are in all countries foot:
cheated out of their liberty.
Several persons have affected to doubt ol
the authenticity <sf the paragraph, some
time lince published here, relative to the
Speaker of the Iriih House of Commonsha
ving been insulted, in consequence of an
order to clear the galleries: The following
may be depended on as an authentic flate
ment of the fact: On the 2 jth of January,
while the House were fitting, a number of
collegians having crowded into the lobby,
were ordered to be turned out by the Spea
ker ; and a party of police was employed
tor that purpose; these, after a smart
struggle, diilodged the young gentlemen,
who beingjoined in the flreet by a rein
forcement of persons casually aflembled,
broke all the globes in the front of the par
liament house, and would have demolished
the Speaker's carriage, but for the dextrous
retreat of his coachman, who with difficul
ty drove off. They then proceeded to the
Speaker's house, where they broke his
windows, and then dispersed.
The RIGHTS OF IRISHMEN, a patri
otic newspaper, printed at Dublin by J.
andtV. P. Carey, has the following para
graph—" An era approaches, glorious and
important to Ireland, and more decisive
than ever of her freedom and unequivocal
independence. The eyes of Irishmen
are no longer blinded by the film of a fatal
prejudice, which for time immemorial pre
vented them fromfeeing into the dark and
cruel policy of their opprelfors: they no
longer elteem as patriots the little orators
of an aristocracy, labouring for the pur
poses of a party —yet overlooking the fuf
t'erings of three millions of their oppressed
countrymen ; nor will they confideras the
voice of an independent kingdom, the dif
graceful deciiion of a majority in any af
i'embly under the corrupt influence of a
junto, Itudioufly misrepresenting a loyal
people to their sovereign."
Communication.
Never was the word ' impeachment' si:
hackneyed, as it has been since the fpiritet
sentence palled by our judges on an uncon
stitutional law. The high-fliers, in anc
out of Congress, and the very humbled: oi
their humble retainers, talk of'nothing but
vnpcachmoit! impeachment I impeachment! as i;
iorfooth Congress were wrapped up in the
cloak of infallibility, which has been torr
from the Ihoulders of the Pope ; and that ii
was damnable heresy and sacrilege to doubi
the constitutional orthodoxy of any deciii
on of theirs, once written on calf-ikin ! -
But if a Secretary of war caii suspend or re
verie the decision of the circuit judges, wh;
may not a drill sergeant or a black drum
mer reverfethe deciiion of a jury ? why no
abolilh at once all our courts, except the
court martial' and burn all our laws, except
the articles of war ? This would be a I'umma
ry way of doing business ; and we woulc
then live as happy as the fubjefts of tin
Dey of Algiers, none of whom ate evei
heard to complain--a second time. Bu
when those impeachment-mongers are ask
ed, how any law is to be declared unj;on
Ititutional, they tell lis that nothing lef
than a general convention is adequate tc
pass sentence on it ; —as it a general con
vention could be alfembled with as much
ease, as 3 committee of Stock-jobbers.—
This reminds us of the priest, who wifhins
to get pofleflion of a fat living, told the pa~
rifiiioners, that if they signed an instru
ment to entitle him for life to the loaves am
fifties, he would give them what weathet
cney pleased, and the elements in their pa
1 ifh should be perfectly under popular gdvern
ment. A convention of the good folks'fighec
the parchment : the prielt took poffellion.
and beggn to ' wax fat'' at their xpenfe
while the weather continued favourable.
But a storm having broken down their fences,
and the parilhioners coming to complain,
he desired them to call another convention,
to determine what weather'he should give
them. Aflenibled with some difficulty, one
wished for funfhhie, another for rain, a
third for something else. In Ihort they
could agree in nothing, except a thorough
conviction, that calling conventions to fettle
the weather, would answer no other pur
pose than zuafic oftime, whilst the fly parson
laughed at their folly, and still continued
to en joy the loaves and fillies, according to
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Mr. Freneau,
THERE has lately been presented to
£ongrefs a petition for compensation
o the officers and soldiers for losses fuftain
:d in consequence of the depreciation of
certificates. It appears to me they have
übftantial reasons for urging such a claim.
But a question will arise, whether there is
ability in government to make good their
lofi'es ? I fear the debts already acknow
ledged to exist, in addition to the enormous
ums necessary for the support of govern
ment, will be more than fufficient to drain
:he treasury. But it may be urged, that a
deficiency in ability to discharge" a debt is
not a just cause why it should not be ac
knowledged. On the other hand it may
>e said, thatCongrefs are not to pay twice—
f they pay off the certificates they are le
gally discharged, and all further claim ceaf
:s. - The people who fur nidi supplies
.vill be very apt to take hold of this,
ilthough they may sincerely wijh the
"ull amount of their demands had beeu
said to those who hazarded their live 3
n defence of this country.—l will just re
,all the attention of my countrymen to a
>eriod when it Was contemplated to give
general relief to the fufferingfoldiers—l
nean prior to funding the public debt,
■vhen a proportion was made by a repres
entative in Congress for discriminating be
:ween original holders and purchasers
)f the public debt—for the exertions he
Tiade to bring this about, he well
nerits, in my opinion, the highest ccm
nendation. Had this been carried into
:xecution agreeably to his plan, we fnould
lot have heard of complaints ;?gainft the
unding system, as enriching a fcrt of fpecu
ators, a great number of whom perhaps
nerit the appellation of unprincipled har
ries. Nor do I believe we lliould have been
-eceived as less praise worthy by the nations
>f Europe, by such a procedure , or that our
'overnment would have been less
jle at home, or more confidentially reposed
n—But the poor are doomed to fuffer un
der every government; for rulers and
judges seem more disposed to conform to
:he letter, than the fpi.-it offconftitutions and
.awst and as an attorney once observed,
tvhen concerned for a poor client against %
wealthy overbearing opponent (whose dif
ileafure it Was dangerous to incur, even in
ijuft cause) "To him that hath people are
'rone to give, and from him that hath not,
hey hesitate not to take away, even that
.vhich he feemeth to have."
Savillon.
Maryland, March 24, 1792.
An Old Story New Dressed.
POOR Joe was" long plagu'd by a ter
magant wife,
Till death put anend to her quarrels and
ftrife.
The friends were invited, to fee her (hug
buried;
\nd to the church-yard, helter-lkelter,
they hurried. —
'Hold, hold, friends! (said Joe) let us
move on at leisure :
'And not like dull fools, make a toil of a
pleasure."
April 13. A. B.
PRICE or STOCKS.
Six per cents, per £. - . z O J,
1 hree ditto - - 11/6 to ;?/.
Deferred !■ ix ditto, - 12f. 1 2 ro
Final fettlemchti, &c. 1 </"- 1 q
Indents . - - - 11A
Half shares Bank Stock 2 5 per cent advance.
Meteorological Observations
April, 1792.
D H Bar. The/. Wind. Weath.
Monday, 9. 7 30. 15 52 S. E. Cloudy.
2 30. o 60 S. W. Ran.
Tuesday, 10. 7 30. o 59 ClovdJ.
e 30. 1 62 NW. do.
Wednesday, 11. 7 30. 1 49 NN . E - Rain~
o! 29. 9 48 do. do.
Thursday, m. 7 30. 1 47 N. Rain.
2 30. 12 53 N.E. loudy.
Friday, 13.7 30. 1 5 43 '■tTzTs.Cioudy.
2 30. o 51 t I J,,.
Saturday, 14. 7 29. 75 45 — S. \Clpudy.
go. _59_) S W.! Far.
Sunday, 15 7 30. 36 j~ \y~~ \
•a) 29. 9 49 y w.s.wl da-regard to dccency and refpeft to such future af
fembJage.
For a government at its commencement to
contrast debts greatly beyond their immediate re-
Sources, to dilpofe of almost the whole of the at
tainable revenue ; in a manner to create, by as«
fvming debts from governments, who were fink
ing them fad, and were altogether opposed tc
Inch aflumption ; and thus opening a door foi
the revival of liquidated claims, and make it the
inlereft of states to make out as large a debt a!
poflible to get a greater share of the general plun
der, is certainly covering the weakness of the
right by the boldness of the exercise. And then
to fay to the such future aflemblags, * that the)
lhall not pay when they are able,' it fubje&ing
them to conditions that none but a lunatic in
private life would submit to, and this in diredi
violation of the constitution which gives to Con
gress the express power of faying the debts of tbt
United States—Can this power of Congrcfs be
abridged or destroyed by any contract with a cre
ditor ? Such a principle could never bind j it
would no: be upheld in a private cafe ; it was ar
bitrary in adoption ; fhameful in continuance, and
would be criminal perhaps in imitation.
But should we admit that a majority of the
present generation may so bind themselves and
mortgage their own industry ; yet the extent of
tftia power is to be defined. The grand and im
portant question yec remains to be difcufled ; a
question that never has been, and perhaps never
will be, fairly met. Can they fell or mortgage
the labor and industry of another generation—ol
posterity ? Are they the judges of the extent and
conditions ? That they cannot* and are not, is
as demonstrable as any proportion in "Euclid.
The God of nature has given the earth to the
j-ving—That he will make our children and our
child re, re children as fiee a 9 he made us, is what
no parent, 1 trutf, will deny. Under the divine
impreflion, the voice of United America, has de
clared—that we cannot deprive posterity of their
natural rights 5 which, from generation to gener
ation, must continue the fame as we came into
the world with j we have a right to the fruits of
our own industry—they to theirs.
The infringements of this sacred law, 1 believe
more often arise from a want of accuracy and pre
cision of reflexion, than a desertion of moral
principle.
Were all men born on one day, and died on
another, the separate rights of posterity would
then be as diftin&ly visible, a 9 the line that would
divide the one generation from another, but al
though the human race flows like a constant
stream, in an Uninterrupted course of renewal and
decay, the rights of tlje separate, parts are the fame
in reality, as if they could be readily and eafil)
diftinguiflied in pra&ice.
That there rs a period at which the majority of
adults, capable of contra&ing, now living, will
give place to a majority of adults equally capable,,
of the Succeeding generation, is as certain as the
great principle of mortality itfelf—this period may!
be ascertained with fufiicient precision for every
pra&ical purpose, by the recorded bills of mor
tality—they are admitred in municipal legislation,
and constitute its leading and distinguishing traits.
By the calculations of Mr. Buffon, it does not ex-!
tend beyond nineteen years j but to give the pre !
sent the ultimatum of their pretensions over the 1
future, would not carry it beyond twenty years:,
the period limited by the English law, after which,
even a private debt ceases to exist.
And surely these bounds, which nature has esta
blished, afforded ample scope for any reafonablc
anticipations. Can we figure any exigences of
ffcate, that ought, or can require, from their ter
mination, an anticipation of the relources of go
vernment, for a greater length than 20 years j or
that a mortgage of the labour of society should be
fold by any contratt irrepealable for a greater
term. Go beyond this, and you fei2e on the
rights of posterity— pass this bound, there is none
other that nature or reason can afiign—The great
mass of the industry and labour of all future ge
nerations becomes then yours to the extent, and
on what conditions you please to prelcribe—no
other line can be drawn.
Such a principle is against the laws of God
and Man—it inverts the whole order of society—
it sweeps away in a torrent every cheek and fafe
guard of government, and arms any d'efpot, any
sdminiftration with means not Sanctioned by na
ture, to bind in chains their fellow-men.
In the firft place, it destroys that great principle,
which alone was the cause of the war with Great
Britain ; which cost us the blood of our heroic
countrymen, and which involved us in the debt—
That taxation and representation should go h»nd
in hand—We have no one quality of the repre
sentatives of posterity not elected by them, an<
not responsible to them.
It establishes a principle that those are t* spend
who are not to pay—this lets loose extravagance i
defiance of justice from its only natural restraints
Posterity whom we injure, have no power ove
us—we are not responsible to them—the order 0
nature renders the grave an asylum from thei
vengeance.
It destroys one great check of free Icgiflation
that the legislator should feel, in his own property
the burthen of the tax he lays, and the contra*
he makes for society.
It avoids that (till greater check that the confti
tuents should ftel the burthens their reprefenta
rives impose—the people never ast but from feel
ings ; so long, therefore, as their deputies con
tract for and at the expence of posterity, they ad
in perfect fafety. If they have a right to fay the
they will only pay a part of the debt, they ma
diminish that part at pleasure, and finally the
may fay they will pay no part j and this, which
in theory would be considered as an argument fror
hyperbole, is precisely in practice, the very prin
cipic we have adopted, with refpett to the deferr
rd Jicck, and that not Sparingly, as it is almof
half our debt Let any man examine the prin
cipler of this novelty of finance—and fee where i
leads to—Administration on this ground, wouli
l?e.perfe£ttv fafe in debt of Grea
Britain. The honour, if I may abuse the term
of this bold violation of natural law, was reserve*
for us. The extravagance of veteran corruptioj
in old exhaufled nations has never, as I have
heard, hazarded this principle. It appears as a
frontispiece, to adorn the annals of an infant re
public.
And who will impeach ? the people feel no
thing—the beings whole rights we thus trample
on, will not burit into existence, until we retire
from the scene, exercising such powers with ra
pidity, and to the extent already effected. Any
adminiflration might become masters of a mass of
corruption—and attracting hardly observation,
go on to bribe the present with the means of future
generations, to do any thing that gold can tempt
the weak, the wicked, and the necefiltous to do.
All confticutions, all forms of government dlf
appear before such a system of finance.
And what is the defence that ingenious and in
terested sophistry has yet invented ? That as pos
terity are to partake of the benefit, they should
pay part of the price—We have gone a little fur
ther with our deferred ftoclc—Or that we pay no
thing, but make them pay the whole j but is it
(not natural justice that they who are to pay fliould
have some hand in the bargain ? have they not a
natural right to jud.ge whether it is a benefit ? and
whether iris worth the money ? Does any man
suppose, that a government that admits such prin
ciples, will be really a benefit to posterity, or so
considered by them.
The cafe has indeed been likened to that of an
individual in society, who leaves an estate to an
heir, burthened with debts—but it can bear no
analogy. Society may fay to an individual, by
its laws, that we will prevent the intrusion of any
other occupant into the property you hold, provi
ded you leave it to your lon, or to your creditor.
This property the individual had no right to but
by )aw—it is a right which society has secured to
him, to the labour of others, which by nature he
could not pretend to. But different generations
ttf men bear no relation to each other but by the
natural law and the terms of the constitution they
■ opt, and even this lad is limited by the former.
But in what society upon earth has a contract of
an individual ever been upheld, by the municipal
tribunals, by which a parent has burthened pro
perty with a debt bearing no immediate interest,
but to be paid by posterity, or by a contract pro
hibiting his posterity from paying it off when they
are able. 1 must doubt, whether any courts would
:ountenance such principles.
If one generation has a right to fell the produce
the foil for any extent of years, the next gene
•ation must quit it. If a nation was to borrow of
foreigners to such extent, which is not only pof
ible, but* I believe was nearly the cafe in Lewis
;lie XlVth's time, they must break or quit.
But no principle has ever been admitted with
'effect to an individual, much less an American
jarent, that he has a right to dispose of the labour
>f his child. The child may relinqoifli the pro
perty, and then he has his hands tree as nature
made them, to labour for himfelf, so there is no
njury.ro natural right. But where one genera
ion fells the industry of another, they cannot get
: rce unless they go into voluntary exile j and even
hen, by some modern dodtrine, the contract will
)ind, let them go where they will, whilst they
:ontinue in vhe facial bond j they must disperse
ike the sews, to get rid of it.
The iniquity of the principFe will be more clear
md striking, when we contemplate that all pub
ic revenue or private income, is a contribution
mediate or immediate of the labour of the induftri
)us farmer and mechanic. If the rich pay any
thing, it is only mediate, a part of what they firft
received from these classes. They are the drones
i>f society, which, (however eflential to its well
being) are fed by the bees. Money is a repre
sentation of industry—a rtprefentStlon of that re
siduum of labour which thepoor either can or must
spare, after sustaining life. If they only worked
to maintain themselves, money would have no
value ; there could be no public revenue or pri
vate income. It follows then, that any transfers
of public resources to any persons, citizens or fo
reigners, is a transfer of such a portion of the la
bour of the farmer and mechanic, and their pos
terity—No money-lender would lend one farthing
to be paid out of the labour of the rich, to all
eternity. It is true that the rich are by such
transfers diminiflied in their comforts and conve
niences, by withdrawing from them and giving to
others that part of the labour of the iriduftrious
and productive clafl'es, which they before enjoyed
under contracts and the laws of society ; but they
are no objeCts to. the money-lender. It is also
true, that all public burthens fall, in great mea
sure, on the land, so as to diminiih its value and
price, as I (hall observe, but then to the men who
lend to government, lands have no value but from
the hands that are to work it.
That country is happy and free, in proportion
as its political institutions and public ceconomy
leave to the industrious the greater portion of the
fruits of their industry. On the contrary, that
counrry is wretched, and its people slaves, whate
ver they may be called, whose labour and indus
try, by any mechanism or conduCfc of society, he
longs to others—as this evil proceeds, such couni
try must decline; and when arrived to a Certain
extent, it must be deserted.
Contemplate a public debt as a mortgage on
Siifluftry and labour—extend its effeCts to posteri
ty j exempt ourselves from the burthen, and put
it wholly on them, on the principle of the deferr
ed stock ; and then fay, that they Yhall not free
themselves by payment j and what does it amount
to ? That a free man, born now, has a right to
the labour of a freeman, born twenty or thirty
years hence j and that, because he will be then
dead and gone, and caanot enjoy it,he may fell it
now to a third person, and spend the money—thus
truly limplified : Is any American prepared tc
avow the principle ?
{To be continued.]
[The following sentiments, extracted from a late
Paris paper, are strikingly expreflive of the in*
creasing spirit of republicanism in France.]
" IN our opinion all citizens are upon a per
fect level with each other, from thtr firft magistrate
to the simple individual who only claims the pri
vileges of aCtive citizen. We neither worihip noi
defyife any one, and cUa sur tefpedl is'due to the
Laws alone. This Is the do&rine we preach,
and fach ought to be the sentiments of ever)
free man. Wc are not at all concerned that il
contradicts the sentiments of certain writers,
whose intentions it is poflible may be right. Gooc
order in society demands that we should fubmii
ourselves to all who are entrufttd with the execu
tion of the laws—So far fubmiflion is proper;
but beyond this—nothing. The nation and tb>
law are the only objedts of my refpedt ; and a:
to obedience, I owe it to the trusty servants o
the nation and the administrators of the laws.—
Let some servile animal, who is proud of his sub
miflion to and refpedt for ranks ; let such an on'
gild over his chains as he pleases; as to us, w
lb far refpedl the dignity of man as not even t
lift the hat to any of our fellow-creatures, what
evtr title they may bear. Men in office are almol
always inclined to consider themselves as elevate
upon the shoulders of those below them ; it be
hoves those therefore who are not in office to feiz
all occasions to convince them that men are equa!
and that scarves, Ihoulder-knots, and fceptrc
are, in themselves, nothing. We have all th
fame claim to the esteem of our brethren, and i
they have learned how to be viituous, that is t
fay, patriotic, our country and liberty are th
source of all other virtues to the citizens; bu
our refpeft ought to be reserved for the law ; an
John James Roufleau has taught us that this i
the firli of all laws. If any piince or chief de
mands tokens of personal relpeft from a man, i
is a lign he defpiles him ; because it is evioen
he does not think him worthy of his esteem, an
therefore di graces him by requiring marks offer
vile obedience. Far be it from us not to have rc
L-ard orelleem for a wife magistrate ; but thi
regard, this refpett, or this esteem, ought not t
be a matter of right, or liable to be demanded
in such occalions the law of duty ought to fpeal
n our hearts —It may be here said, that the ac
knowledgments of men ought to be paid to rt\i
objects, and such as fall under the cognizance <>
thefenfi-sj that the law and country are intil
Ic&ual beings ; but that princes, magistrates, ge
nerals, &c. are visible to our eyes, and canno
therefore behoncrcd by internal rrfpett.
Hence, then, it would happen that we mul
have political as well ai moral idols faddlcd upo
us. The Supreme E<iii»g, who is invisible, i
•very day profaned when we bow down before th
r Jolden Calfand the words country and feve reign
y are both mifundeiftood, when the constitute
jowers become the objedl of our worlhip.
Jf there be any effectual means in the world t
prevent rulers from sooner or later usurping th
"overeign authority of the governed, it is a dc
termination in the latter to consider themfelve
>n a level with the former, and to intrude int
heir ears as often as poflible that consuls and He
on are the fame thing in a free government.
Some have recently said that refpeft, thougl
lot adoration, is due to rulers—We answer, tha
here is only a flip between refpefl and adoration
vhen he who has arrogated the refpedl of his
ellovv citizens, has got himfelf surrounded wit*
>ikes and bayonets.—Obedience and fubmifiior
ire due to the depositaries of the public authoritv
elpedt to the laws alone. [Gax. Univ.]'
Tranjlations from the Lcyden Gazette, Jan. 3—6.
The earthquake at Li/bon, on the 27th oi
Nov. although not of long continuance, was th<
:aufe of horror and consternation to the inhabi
tants. Since the terrible catastrophe of 1755 ft
violent a Ihock has not been experienced. Th<
sliver Tagus became so agitated that a number ol
veflels loft their anchors, and fuffered confidera
b!e other damage.— Othe.T damage was done or
shore alfo,but not a single house demolilhed.
Dispatches haV® been .received at l'aris frotr.
the court of Spain, announcing that his Catholic
Majesty has given orders to the governor of Spa
nifli St. Domingo to observe the ftritfeft neutra
lity between the different pa rties that diftraft the
French part of the island j and to form a line
of.troops on the frontier, that the disturbances
may not pervade the Spanifli. territory j where i/
Ihe Spanish blacks fliould imanifeft any difpofi
lion to join the French revolted negroes, thej
are immediately to aflift by tevery means in then
power to reduce and subdue them.
Great numbers of the Biabanters have been
afitmbling for some time past at the city of Lille,
as it would seem, under the auspices of some of
the principal of the French emigrants—The mu
nicipality of Lisle, after developing the catife of
their afl'embling in such numbers, ifiued a pro
clamation, requiring every person coming to that
capital, to give in his name, occupation, business
there, &c. &c. within 24 hours after arrival-
All good citizens are also required to take cog
nizance of them, and report to the municipality
any particulars that may occur worthy of notice j
and the troops of the line are enjoined to be rea
dy at a moment's notice to quell riots and pre
vent illegal aflemblies.
The enemies of the French revolution have al
w-ays entertained hopes from the apparent difu
nion that has prevailed between the national as
sembly and executive power. A change, how
ever, has taken place in this refpeft that omens
ill to the emigrants.—The Jaeobine, and othet
clubs of fa&ion have ceased their endeavors to
prejudice the nation against the legillature, and a
general confidence has now succeeded to those mu
tual distrusts which were a grief to all rrue patri
ots and elevated the hopes of the refugee French
beyond the Rhine. Since the coming of M. de
Narbonne into the ministry, a better understand
ing than ever seems to have taken place between
the national representatives and the agents of the
executive power.
M. Condoicct has proposed to the national as
sembly to draft the form of " a solemn declaration
to all powers, to inform them of the principles
and policy of the government of regenerated
France.** His speech was received with enthusi
astic approbation, and was ordered to be present
ed to the king by a deputation of 24 members,
and to be sent to the 83 departments of the king
dom—-The king, upon receiving the deputation,
replied to the deputies that " theaficmbly might
reft allured that he would at all times do his ut
m«ft *0 support the dignity of the nation. *'
Wajhington, in the Territory of Columbia.
A PRE M I U M
OF 500 dollars, or a medal of that value,
at the option of the party, will be giv
:n by the Commiflioners of the Federal
Buildings to the person who, before the
ifteenth day of July next, (hall produce to
them the moll approved plan, if adopted by
:hem, for a President's house to be ereCted
in this city. The lite of the building, if
the artist will attend to it, will of course
influence tire afpett and outline of his plan,
and it's destination will point out to him
the number, size, and distribution of the
apartments. It will be a recommendation
of any plan, if the central part of it may be
detached and eretfed for the present, with
the appearance of a complete whole, and
be capable of admitting the additional parts,
in future, if they flrall be wanting. Draw
ings will be expected of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and feftions
through the building in such directions as
may be necefiary to explain the internal
(truSture j and an effimate of the cubic feet
of brickwork, composing the whole mass of
:he walls. The Commissioners.
March 14, 1792.
Wajhington, in tie Territory of Columbia.
A PREMIUM
OF a lot in this City to be defispiated by
impartial judges and joo dollars; or a
nedal of that value, at the option of the
larty, will be given by the Commiilioners
>f the Federal Buildings, to the person,
vho, before the fifteenth day of July 1792,
hall produce to them the moll approved
>lan, if adopted by them, for a Capitol to
>e erected in this city, and 250 dollars, or
l medal for the plan deemed next in merit
o the one they (hall adopt. The building
obe of brick, and to contain the following
ipartments, to wit. _ .
\ conference room 1 ■ 3U '' lclen t to
\ room for the Re- > accomln °dat,e
prefentatives J 3 C ° persons
\ lobby or antichamber to the latter, (
1 Senate room of 1200 square feet
area.
-An antichamber or lobby to the last. J
2 rooms of 600 square feet area, each, for
ommittee rooms and clerks offices, to be
>fhalf the elevation of the former. Draw
ngs will be expe£ted of the ground plats,
:levations of each front, and feflions
hrough the building in such directions ai
nay be neceflary to explain the internal
trudture, and an estimate of the cubic feet
jf brickwork composing the whole mass of
the walls. The Commissioners.
March 14, 1792
Sales at Auction,
By M'FARRAN & DUNLAP,
At the Merchants 1 Coffee-houfe, in New-Ymk,on
WedncfJay the 251(1 of April next, at ii o'clock,
valuable and nvell known GriJ} Mill ard
harm, late the frcperty of Abraham De Peyjler t
deceafcd ; near Fiji-kill landing, in Duuhefs coun• /
ty,feventy wiles from this city, upon the liudfon o>
North river, The mill-hvuje is 32 by 80 feet, has
one pair French burr, and one pair Efotus Jlones,
new and of an approved quality j a reeling Jcreen,
fanning viill, and a complete fct offlour bolts, turn
ing by -water, all cf 'which are new and in perftil
rder ; as also every tthefpzift of the 'Work, having
lately undergone a thorough repair. The ftrcam, a
never failing one, capable of turning in addition to
the pttfent, a fullery and Jaw mill, for 'which the
situation affords proper conveniences, and very ad'
vantageou s, the 'waters of the Iludfon flowing up to
the at which a vessel drawing 6 feet wa
tery may load and unload, and in the bejl wheat
country in the Jlate. The dwelling is large y commo
dious, and well finijhed, built cf brick andfione,
by feet, pleafanxly situated within Jixty yards of
the mills with a i indjome garden in front, and an
excellent spring if'water, and a new well built
Dutch barn ; also a small house at a convenient dij•
tance from the mill, calculated to accommodate a
tradesman. The farm corififts of 274 acres, inclu
ding the mill fir earn, about 140 acres of which is an
excellent grove of grooving timber, lying in a body
not mere than half a it. He from the mill, and a good
fpt/t of mowing ground, allproper ly fenced', a small,
but good orchard, producing abundance if the heft
apples, with a number of other fruit trees, dijperfed
near the house.
This i$ truly a valuable and advantagecufly situ
ated property, which renders it an cbjefl worthy the
attention of a mam of business, when it may be ex
'ended to any length. One half of the pur chafe mo
sey will be required on deivery cf the deeds, (when
Mj'ejfion will be given J the other half in one year,
with inter eft, secured by a mortgage on thtprcmife.
An indisputable title will be given—for furth'r
ihrticulars enquire of M.Jfteurs M l Far ran and
Ounlap, Peter A. Schenck, New-York j or of Ifauc
De Pey/ier, feller, on the premises.
New-York, March 31- 2.a.w.
*** A few Copies of the Report of the
Secretary of the Treasury on the Act for
aying Duties on Spirits, &c. for fait at
his Office.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE , NO. 239, HIGH-STREET
near sixth-street,
PHILADELPHIA.
S,H
•-> tr
£*>
2- o ,
re o
2 3
g °
? cr
re