Vol. I.
LONDON, Feb. 4,
Jiis M.cjtjly's •'■ 'fh to both llouJcs cj
Parliament.
THIS day his Majesty came to the
House of Peers, andbeing featedon
Throne with the ufu&l solemnity, ii-
F. Molvneux' gentleman uihcr of the
Black Rod,was sent with ameffage from
h ; s Majesty to the House of Commons,
commanding their attendance in the
Houle of Peers. The commons being
come thither accordingly, his majeih
was pleased to make the following moil
gracious fpecch :
My Ltrds and Gentlemen,
The many proofs which you have
given of your affectionate attachmin
to my person and family, leave me ni
doubt of your participating in the fa
tisfaaion which I derive in the happ>
event of the marriage which has beer
celebrated between my son the Duke oi
York, and the eldest daughter of m>
eood brother and ally the king oi Piui
fja : and I am persuaded I may expeti
your chearful concurrence in enabling
rne to make a suitable provision foi
their eilablifhrncnt.
£ince I lail met you in Parliament, s
definitive treaty has been concluded
under my mediation and that of my ai
lies the king of Pruflia and the States
General of the United Provinces, be
tween the Emperor and the Ottomar
Poi'te, on principles which appear th<
best calculated to prevent future difput<
between thole powers.
Our intervention has also been em
ployed, with a view to promote a pa
ci&cation between the Empress- of Ruf
fiaand the Porte ; and conditions have
mer of those powers, which we under
took to recommend to the 1 orte, as th<
re-establishment of peace cn such term
appeared to be, under the exifhng cir
cumftances, a desirable event lor th<
general interest of Europe. I am it
expeaation of fpcedily receiving the ac
count of the conclusion of the de£nitiv<
treaty of peace, preliminaries having
beenfome time fence agreed upon bv
tween those powers.
I have direaed copies of the dshni
tive treaty, between the Emperor anc
the Porte, to be laid before you, as wel
as such papers as are necessary to shew
The terms 'of p:ace, which have beer
under dHcuffion during the negociati
on with the Court of Feterfburgli-
I regret that I arn not yet enabled tc
inform you of the termination of th<
war in India but the success which
has lately attended the diftmguifhec
bravery and exertions of the officers anc
troops under the able condu& of Lore
Cornwallis, and the recent advice:
from that quarter, afford reafonablt
ground to hope that the war may be fpee
Ci\y brought to an honorable conclufi
cn.
The friendly assurances which I re
ceive from foreign powers, and the ge
neral state of affairs in Europe, appeal
to promise to my iubjefts the continu
ance of their present tranquillity. Un
der these circumffances, 1 am inducec
to think that some immediate reduaior,
may fafely be made in our naval anc
military establishments ; and my regard
- for the interests of my fubjeas renders
me at ail times desirous of availing my
felf of any favorable opportunity to di
jninifh the public expences.
Gentlemen of the House of Commons,
It will, I am persuaded, give you
great fatisfaaion to learn, that the ex
traordinary expences incurred in the
course of last yoar, have in a great
meafurebeen already defrayed by the
grants of the feflion. The state of out
rcfources, will, I trust, be found more
than iufficient to provide for the re
training part of those expenses, as well
as for the current service of the year,
tfieeftimates for which I have directed
to belaid before you.
By P. FRENEAU: PuUified Mondays an Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
M O N D A Y, March 26, 1792.
I entertain the pleating hope, that the
redu&ions which may be found prac
ticable in the establishments, aud the
continued encreafe of the revenue, will
enable you, after making due provision
for the several branches of the public
fcrvice, to enter upon a system of gra
dually relieving my fubjeits from fomc
oart of the existing taxes, at the fame
i;me giving additional efficacy to the
plan for the redu£tion of the nationa
debt, on the success of which our fu
ture ease and security cilentialiy dc*'
pend.
With a view to this important object
let me also recommend it to you to turr
your attention to the consideration o
such measures as the state of the fund:
and of public credit may render prac
ticable and expedient towards a reduc
tion in the rate of interefk of any of tin
annuities which are now redeemable.
My Lords and Gentlemen
The continued and progreflive im
provement in the internal lituation o.
the country, will, lam confident, ani
mate you in the pixrfuit of every mea
fare which may be conducive to tlx
public interest.
It must at the fame time operate a:
the strongest encouragement to a fpiri
of ufeful induflry among all classes o
my fubjedts, and above all, must con
firm and increale their study and zea
lous attachment to that Constitution
which we have found by long experi
ence, to unite the inestimable blessing
of liberty and order, and to which, un
aer the favour of providence, all ou
other advantages are principally to bi
ascribed."
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
P A E. I S, December 15.
Addresses from various diftritts of tlx
capital were prefentcd and read. The)
all complained, in terms of indignation
of the conduct of the directors of the
department of Paris, who had addrefl'ec
the king, not only to thank him foi
having refuied the royal ailent to the
decree against the princes, but also tc
request that he would refuie to g ive 1
to the decree agair.tl the nonjurinj
clergy.
We will give an extract from one o!
them, on account of the extraordinary
spirit which it breathes, and the ltronj
manner in which it is worded.
The address was from the diftrifl
known by the name 01 the Oumzc
Vingts, taken from an hospital which
ftanSs in it, and built by a former king
of France, for the residence and luppon
of fifteen icoreblind pcrlons. It begin:
by ilating, that it conveys the sentiments
not only of the diftridt of the Quir.zc
Vingts, but of the whole suburb of St.
Anthony (the refidencc of the poorer,
but moitinduftrious and mo ft numerous
boftly of the inhabitants of Paris.) Ii
then proceeds as follows :
" We hold flattery no less in abhor
rence than tlavery ; we come not there
fore to pronounceapancgyricupon your
conduct, or our own, but to deiire what
you will not entertain a doubt of, the
patriotism of our sentiments. The voice
of the seditious is but as an empty found ;
in vain do the directors of the depart
ment of Paris attempt to kindle a civil
war in the kingdom, by means of an ad
dress, falfely purporting it to be that of
the whole department, when in fact it
breathes the sentiments of no more than
of the eight individuals who signed it.
Already do the people hold in their
hand the thunder which is to pulverize
them. Priests formerly of every co
lour and denomination abused the cre
dulity of the public for the purpose of
exciting tumults and fcdition. Opposi
tion is made to every law for reflraining
them ; and encouragement is held out
to these remains of f.inaticifm, of which
philosophy ought long since to have
purged the empire, Monliers who
briug forth crimes at every pore (the
ori rial exprelTion —who sweat crimes)
the God vvhof-i name you ule for trie
puraefe of frightening weak, and credu
toi:- minds, is the god of pafTion, ours
is t'.e God of mercy ; and you traitors,
wl; 't l i the Con dilution has I tiled * lench
pri- fcOS. you who prefer the fharaefui
am' iejjnrding appellation ot heads oi
ba; iitii.'are pieparingto carry fire anc
fwctdinto the bosom of your country,
We will burn our our wives
our children, and oui lash breath fhai,
expire for liberty. You may reigr
ove: heaps of mangled cat cases; anc
drii k the blood of your fellow-citizen:
on the ruins of your country.
' You, our legislatures, place youi
firm reliance upon our courage, andpro
clai'n to tyrants and delpots that the
Fre .ch nation is for the second time
rotrcdfrom its dumber. ins aoorefi,
falfe'v purporting to be from the depart
me. i ot Paris, but in reality only from
the ight directors, is the consequence
of • coalition between them and the
forraer ministers, who have been justly
cor dered as the cause of all the dif
tun .nces produced by our conlpiratora
at i. Dine. The clemency which you
ha\ hitherto exercised, is deemed by
the jtion as a reproach to you. Speak
but he word, and two millions of bands
will be rouled to exterminate the rebels.
The Catalines are not all on the banks
of < .<£ Rhine ; tome of them are in the
cap 1 sal, and even in offices of power and
tru. but !he citizens of the suburb oi
St. Anthony have Itiil the hands, the
art Icry, and the pikes which made the
iia. le vanish from the place where il
fto< x. The sentiments which we now
exiiiels have tnore than ontt caunu u;
to be honored with the appellation oi
seditious ; but equally free from sediti
on as from fear, we swear now, in the
presence of the reprefsntatives of the
people, that without liberty, withoul
the Natiohal Aflembly, we have no
country ; luch will be found to be the
determination of the whole luburb o)
St. Anthony, whose hearts were nevei
strangers to the noble enthufialm of lib
erty."
lhe Aflembly received this address
with ttrong marks ol fatisfaition, ana
ordered that it should be printed.
A scene of violence and eonfufion
soon after ensued, occasioned by a moti
on made by a meinberfor rescinding the
resolution of the preceding day, by
which it had been ordered, that honora
ble mention ftiould be mads in the Jour
nals of the address from the inhabitants
of the Corn Market diltri£t.
The ground of the motion was, that it
would not be deccnt for the Aflembly
to make honorable mention of an ad
dress, which not only spoke in very
difrefpeftful termsof the king, but treat
ed as unconditional the use which he
had made of the royal negative, when it
was evident that the conduct ot his ma
jelty on that occalion was ttii£tly con
ititutional, however some persons might
with that he had not withheld his alfent
from the decree in question.
This produced a tumultuous debate,
which threw the Aflembly into the ut
most confuiion and disorder.
The bu fin els was at length compro
mifedinthis way. By the resolution
of the day before, it was ordered not
only that honorable mention fl.ould be
mac z in the journals, but alio that a co
py of the address, and of the order ret
pecting it, lliould be sent to each of the
3 departments of the kingdom.
The compromise was this; that the
honorable mention entered in the
Journals, should not be erased ; but
that the order for transmitting a copy ol
it, &c. to the departments thould be
rescinded.
A letter from the department of the
Doubs informed the Aiiembly that the
22d regiment of horse had been recal
led from Bcfar.con, with Mr, Toulon-
Numb. 43.
geon their Colonel ; and that it was
the general wish of the department,
that the regiment should be broke.
Mr, Vaublane said ;fo violent a
measure as would be that of breaking
the regiment, would reduce the men
almost to a necellity of breaking out
into rebellion
The letter was referred to the Mili
tary committee.
Mr. RulH moved, that notice should
be lent to all the foreign Princes, who
formerly held pollellions in Allace, to
tranlmit to Paris, within the I'pace of
one month from the date of the Decree
which should pass on the occasion, the
titles under which they cFaim property
in that province ;• —that after the lapse
of the laid month, the Decree of th'c
month of Augult, 1789, for abolishing
all feudal rights and tenure should bo
executed, as welil 011 the estates of those
Princes, as on those of all other land
owners : And lastly. that the estates
held in France by such foreign Princes,
as shall fufFerthe French emigrants to
muster or recruit in their dominions,
ftould be confifcated and fold for the
public use.
This proportion was referred to the
Diplomatique Committee.
A letter read from Mr. Lccou
terier, a member of the AlTembly, who
has leave of absence on account of his
health. He dated, that he had receiv
ed advice from Thionville, that the gates
of Metz will be opened to the rebels,
and that Sarrelouis and Thionville are
to be locked up by them. lie farther
informed the AU'embly, that fire had
been set to the barracks at Thionville,
which ft; jd near the powder magazine;
and rnaiTi ,vas pwhd/ 'giv Out, thr
lying intended to repair to Metz.
The letter was referred to the milita»
ry Committee.
The Assembly fat till half past (even
in the morning of the 15th. examining
a Drum major, who was charged with
having enlisted men for the service of
the Princes.
LONDON, January 7.
EAST-INDIES,
Diversity of opinion, contrariety of
expectation, and opposition of senti
ment, never reigned at the fame period
so much as at this time, with regard to
Lord Cornwallis and our East-India af
fairs. While, on the one hand, it is
the opinion, and even the declaration
of a great political character, that the
India company cannot long escape
bankruptcy, it is maintained, with e
qual force of argument, by thole who,
from their official situation, ought not
to be ignorant therein, that, if their debts
and their incumbrances are fairly weigh
ed together ; they will not only be fou-nd
solvent, but flourifhing, With regard to
this iruitlcfs campaign, it must be al
lowed, on all hands, that it is discour
aging to the well-wishers of India con
cerns ; but then it may be remembered,
that the noble commander himfelf form
ed no very sanguine expectations of
what he could do in the time allotted
for the experiment. The affairs of Eu
rope, and Great-Britain in particular,
as he said, impelled him to run all ha
zards. So far his Lordship llands ac
quitted by u». We have no desire to
leifen the public's good opinion of the
noble commander's talents or zeal to
serve his country. One great object of
exploit seems to have occasioned the
Governor-General to overlook many of
inferiormagnitude, individually, though
not in the aggregate. It is the belief of
many men of experience, that Lord
Cornwallis will evince in himfelf the
impolicy of the Governor-General be
ing a military man, or at least being pla
ced at the head of the Indian army.
We will neither vainly excite the ap
prehensions of the timid, nor the con
fidence of those who will not take theTrouble to think for themselves. The in-'
telligence We have already received was
tmrelcs/ty exhibited to the public eye; much
was said, perhaps, unneceffafily, and we
advise all who are more than ordinarily
concerned in the ffl'ue of the enterprize now
carrying forward in India, to reserve a
hope till the Commander in Chief's own
account is feeri, which will place many ob
scure matters 111 a clear point of view, and
enable us to form a natural expectation of
what may {till be effe&ed by the progref>
of our arms. If our allies are firm, and
we are bent upon profecittion of the war,
the whole rests upon the resources of the
company, and the injury the troops have
(uitained by fatigue and sickness, to both'
which points we shall Ihortly be enabled'
with certainty to speak.
PHILADELPHIA.
C O NGR ESS.
HOUSE OF REPF.ESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, March 21.
A petition of sundry merchants of the
State of Khode-Ifiand, trading to India and
China, was read, praying that teas impor
ted from Europe in velfeis belonging to the
citizens of the United State-, may be fub
je£ted to the fame duties and regulations a>
teas imported from India, in veiiels belong
ing to the citizens of the United States —
Referred to a committee of the 1 whole
House on the state of the Union.
Petitions were read from John Ingles and So
lomon Trow, praying liquidation and settle
ment of claims for military fervices—Relerred
to the Secretary at War.
On motion of Mr. Steele, the report of the
attorney-general on the petition of Andrew Jack
son. was referred to Mr. Clarke, Mr. Steele,
•nd Mr. I.ivermore.
A melfage received yellerday from the Preft
dentofthe United States, dated March 17, 1792,
was read, as follows : —
" Gentlemen of the Senate and of the House
of Representatives,—
" The leveral acts which have been palfed
relative to the military eftahlilhment of the Uni ■
ted States, and the protection of the frontiers,
do not appear to have made provilion for more
than one brigadier-general. It is incumbent up
on me to oblerve, that, with a view merely to
the organization of the troops designated by
those atb, a greater numb-r of officers of that
grade would, in my opinion, be conducive to
the good of the public service but an increase
of the number becomes flill more desirable in
reference to a different organization, which is
contemplated pursuant to the authority veiled in
me for that purpose, and which, belidcs other
advantages expetted from it, is recommended
by considerations of economy.
" I therefore requefi, that vou will be pleased
to take this fubje£t into your early consideration,
and to adopt such meal'ures thereon, as you may
judge proper.
"G. WASHINGTON."
Which meflage was committed to Mr. White.
Ivtr. Laurance, and Mr. Smith of S. C. with
inflruflions to report thereon by way of bill or
bills.
A meflage was received from the Senate by
JMr. Otis, notifying the House that the Senate
Jiave paflcda bill for fixing the compensations o!
the door-keepers of the Senate and House ol
Representatives, to which the concurrence ol
the House was desired.
The House ihen rcfumed the consideration o!
the motion on-the Georgia contefled clefction.
viz. that James Jackson is entitled to 1 leat ir
this House, &c.—After a lengthy difcuflion, the
tjueftion being finally taken, it appeared thai
tbe House was equally divided—Yeas 29 —Nays
eg. —The Yeas and Nays'were as follow :
Yeas—Mefi. Alhe, Baldwin, Brown, Clarke,
Findley, Gerry, Giles, Gregg, Griffin, Grove,
H-i'li-r, Jacobs, Lee, Macon, Madilon, Moore,
Nilcs, P v,.:. Parker, Schoonmaker, S.ney, J.
Smith, I. Smith, Sterrctt, Sturges, Sumpter,
Tredwell, Venable, Willis.
Nays —Midi', Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, Bou
clinot, S. Bouuie, B. Bourne, Fitzfimons, Gil
jnan, Goodhue, Goidon, Hartley, Hillhoufe,
Hi: -1 Key, Kitchell, Kittera, Laurance,
Leain .:r I.ivcrmore, Muhlenberg, Sedgwick,
W. S nith, Steele, Sylvester, Thatcher, Tuck
er, Wadfworth, Ward, White.
The Speaker declared himfelf with the Nays
—whereupon it was resolved, " That the feat
of Anthony Wayne, as a member of this houle,
is, and the fame is declared to be vacant" —and
ordered, th 't the Speaker tranlmit a copy of the
preceding leloluaon to the executive of the
Sate of to the end that the said exe
cutive rp3'y llfue writs of election to fill the laid
vacancy.
Other orders of the day were potlponed till
to-morrow.
Thursday, March 22.
A bill sent from the Senate, ptovidir.g com
pensations for the door-keepeio of Congress, and
their a [fill ants, was read a firll time.
A memorial from the public creditors holding
certificates, iifued between Sept. 1777, and
March, 1778, was read and referred to the com
mittee of the whole Houle on the report of the
Secretary of the Treaiury on the public debt ;
•nd,
T!ie Tlnnfe, pnrfuant to the of the day,
resolved itfclfinto a committee of the whole, on
tile laid report —Mr. Sene'y in the chair.
Mr. l itzfimons proposed ieveral resolution'.
1 hefe propositions being thought of too seri
ous a nature, to admit Ot any dcciiion without se
rious deliberation, the committee for thepur
pofe of having them printed, for the confidc-ra
tion of the members, rose without anv debate,
reported pi ogress, and obtained leave to fit again.
Mr. Williamfon repoited a billfor afcenain
mg the bounds of a tra£l of land, purchased by
judge Sytnmes, which was twice read, and made
the order of the day for to-morrow.
Mr. LiVermore, from the committee on the
petition of G. Turner, one of the judges of the
Wefiern I erritory, made report, which was
read and ordered to lie on the table—as was
*lfo, a report from the committee on the petition
of Henry Laurens.
The House again resolved itfelf into a com
mittee of the whole, on there-port of the feleci
committee on the memorial of the Dirc6kxs of
he Ohio Company.
On motion, to adopt the following refol't ion,
reported by the fele& committee, viz.
" Resolved, That a committee be appointee
;o bung in a bill to authorize the conveyance tc
the directors of the Ohio Company, io called,
for the ule of the said company, of a trad ol
land paiticularly described in an indenture exe
:uted on the 27th day of O&ober, 1787, be
tween the then board of treafurv, for the Uni
ted States, of the one part, and M. Cutler, anc
W. Sargent, as agents for the directors ot' the
said Ohio Company, of the other part, with the
reservations' in the (aid indenture mentioned, ir
:onfideration of the purchase money in the fair
ndenture exprefTed to have been received, anc
o release to the said company the sum of 50000 c
Jollars, the residue of the said purchase money
emaining unpaid,"—
The question being taken, pasTed in the nega
ive.
Mr. Fitzfimons then brought forward a f.'t ol
our proportions, the firft of which was, aftei
bme debate, agreed to, as follows :—
u Resolved as the opinion of this committee,
hat a title ought to be made to the Ohio Com
)any for so much of the lands in their contracts,
is they have a6iuallv paid for."
The next proportion, allowing them a fighl
)f pre-emption to the residue, for years
vas for some time debated ; but, without :om
ng to a decision, the committee rose, reported
>rogrefs, and obtained leave to fit again.
Mr. Madison, from the committee of con
erence on the representation bill, reported,
hat the managers, on the part of the House, had
)ropofed terms of accommodation to those ap
jointed by the Senate, viz. to give up the pro
riGon for taking a new census at the end o- four
'ears ; and to consent to the ratio of turty
hree thousand to be applied to the numbers in
?ach fiatc, without regard to fractions bu<
hat the Senate's conferees had refuted their ai
ent, and no profpe£l of accommodation remain
ed.
A message was "delivered by Mr. Secretary
3tis, informing the House that the Senate irtfift
:d on their amendments to the represent. tion
)ill ; and
Mr. W. Smith gave notice, that, when the
"übje& comes again before the House, he wil
nove for adopting the ratio of thirty-three thou
and.
Friday, March 23.
The bill for fixing the compensations of th(
ioor-keepers of the House and Senate, was rea<
he fecon 1 time, and referred to a committee o
he whole House on Monday next.
The report on ihe petition of George Tur
ier, one of the judges of the Western Territo
y, was read the second time, and referred to th<
:ommittee which brought in the report, to brine
11 a bill pursuant thereto.
On motion or Mr. Vining, the report of th<
Jecretary of the Treasury on the petition of th<
rufteees of Wilmington College, state of Dela
vare, was taken into consideration, and refer
ed to a leleft committee to examine ami re
>ort to the House.
A melfage from the Senate, by Mr. Secreta
y Otis, informed the House that they have oasT
da bill for altering the times of holding cer
ain circuit courts, and for other purposes ; ir
vhich they request the concurrence of the
iloufe. The bll was read the firft time.
The petition of Augustus Christian Grorgc
ilholm, was presented and read—Referred tf
;he Secretary at War.
Another meflage from the Senate, in form W
he House that they have paffed-a bill entitle 1 ar
ift supplementary to the acl making further and
nore effectual piovifion for the defence of the
Vontiers of the United States.
A meflage was received from the Prefldert oi
he United States, by Mr. Secretary Lear, in
orming the House that the President has this
lay approved and signed a bill providing for the
:laims of widows and orphans barred by lirmta
10ns heretofore eftablilhed—and to regulate the
:iaims to invalid pensions.
The meflage from the Senate received yefter
iay, in which they inform the House that they
ntilt on their amendments to the representation
>ill, was taken into consideration.
Mr. Vining moved that the House fhouU'. re
rede from their disagreement to the amendments
:>f the Senate —considerable debate ensued on a
point of order, whether a subsequent quefiion
ihould be taken, in cafe the motion to recede
[hould be carried in the affirmative—The fp.oak
:r gave it as his opinion, that such subsequent
motion might be Tr.zit —An sppcal was made
from iliis decilion of the chair to the House—
I'lie House determined that a fubfeqtiertt ques
tion would not be in order.
After further debate, the quefltiou on re
ceding was determined in the affirmative —
ayes 31, noes 29.
Here a qtieftion was flatted, whether
the vote just paiied was for a general recef->
(ion from the disagreement of the House to
all the amendments of the Senate.
The Speaker said he confidt rec! the vote
as referring to all the amendments. An ap
peal being made to the House. it was deter
mined that all the amendments were in
volved in the vote to recede.
In committee of the whole on the bill to
ascertain the bounds of a tract of land pur
phafed by John Cleve Symmes. Mr. Seney
in the chair.
The committee reported the bill with
out amendments, and it was ordered to be
:ngro,Ted for a third reading.
The bill received from the Senate was
read the firft and fecorid time, and ordered
to be committed to a committee of the
whole House to-morrow.
The bill authorizes the President to ap
point such number of Brigadier-Generals as
the public service may requite.
In committee of the whole on the bill to
Snilti the light-hou<"e on Baid-Head, at die
mouth of (-ape 1 ear river.
Th<i committee reported the bill without
jmendments—and it was ordered to be en
jroi.'ed for a third reading to-morrow.
The report of a felefct committee on the
petition of sundry mercl: tnts trading to In
dia—which report propoies an extension of
the time allowed by law for the payment
of the duties on teas imported from India,
was taken into consideration—agreed to ;
and a bill ordered to be brought in pursuant
thereto.
In committee of the whole on the report
of the Secretary of the Treasury on the pe
tition of the executors to the estate of hd
ward Carnes.
This report being read, Mr. Goodhue of
fered a resolution pursuant thereto—the
"übiltance of which «as, to empower the
proper officers of the Treasury to fettle,
generally, accounts circumstanced as the
luove. The committee role without de
:iding—and the House adjourned till to
morrow.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTI.
A moilcjl H I N T
TO THE
STATE LEGISLATURES.
exertions mide by the Lepflatures
J. of several of the United States, to un
ock the doors of the Federal Senate, na
turally suggest the question—" What advan
' tag', zvill result from the mcafure, if earned f"
The galleries of the other House are open
to a few persons at the feat of government;
jut are inaccessible to those at a distance,
ivhofe information (except when the mem
tiers have leisure to write to them) entirely
lepends on hearsay reports, or the irnper
"eft publications of two or three ihort-hand
.vriter', without refponfibiiity. During
the present feflion, we have sometimes seen
:he debates publilhed by one man only,
,vhofe statements, whether true or falfe,
■vere implicitly copied : —at other times, on
jueftior. of the higuc-1 importance, no de
late has been published at ail.
This is paying a sorry compliment to the
-louse, for keeping their doors open : and
f no better use be made of the indulgence,
he citizens «f America deserve to lose it,
ind to fee them as closely (hut as those of
he Senate.
But the representatives of the people aim
lot at feerefy : th l y have done uimoji as
nuch, as the National Aflembly of France.
: or the accommodation of the fiiort hand
.vriter;; : and their chief inducement to re
tain the privilege offranking, was to make
the people acquainted with their proceed
ngs, —of which (by their own confeflion)
;ven the imperfect newspaper (ketcheshave
jroduced very happy effeEls■ Still happier
.vonld, no doubt, have refnlted from afull
iccurate publication of their debates a'
arge : and it mult be of high importance
to the present and future generations, thai
ome spirited national meal ures be adopted
to perpetuate the advantages, of which the
icceffibility of their galleries may be pro
jective, if judiciously improved,—by col
ecitiog into one focus all the rays of wisdom
that illuminate the legislators of the present
lay, to light up a beacon for the guidance
t)f (heirfueeejfors, in fleering their dangerou:-
ourie amidit the rocks and quicksands oi
egiflation.
Should any man now produce an authen
tic copy of the Debates of the old Congress, from
their tirft meeting, to the year 1789, and of
fer it for sale to th£ people of America, —
vvould any price be deemed too high for the
jurchafe of so valuable a treasure ? —In a
tew years hence, the debates of the present
tune will be almost as completely left and
forgotten, as those of the old Congress, un
less care betaken to ensure their preserva
tion, and guarantee tkeir authenticity.
' ut <"*per!ence_jias proved, that to pti3*
!.Hi them entire, is :i t:'dk too arduous for
3 ! individual. And as to fketchmg,—how"
d.fficult to a;ive a perfect sketch of a malier
oration ! —lf a Ihort-hand writer wmls
either abilities, leisure, or encouragement,
lie mult abridge the (peeches, as PrOcrustes
did his guests, by cutting off their limbs,—
or as the Virginians do their dollars, by
□leaking them into halves and quarters,
mid giving the lhapelefs fragments, in lieu
at 1 mail but complete pieces, in which we
plight uill find a perfect resemblance of the
larger ones.
1 nfatisfaftory and inaccurate as these
■ etches triuft be, they are, moreover, precis
'ious and uncertain—To fay nothing of
leata or fickncf s -the rfibrt-hand-wrifer,
U<>, HKe another Sisyphus, lias finely to
truggle with the unequal weight, will pro
bably find his strength exhausted, as' the
debates crowd upon him ; and will bemolt
ikely to abandon the hopeless toil, at the
'ery moment when they are mod intcreft
ng, and when tile loss will be mod fevere
y felt.
If succeeded at all, he is perhaps fucceed
-5y ionic notice, who blunders on for a fe'Kon
3r two, and then, like his predecessor, re
igns his pen to another of the fame defcrip
•ion : And thus, as lonrr as the debates lie
-iiti: ely at the mercy of volunteer individu
als , the people oi America may be obliged
•> depend on a fucceflio.i of novices, for plf
-he information they receive of the mea
ures of government, or perhaps to fee the
mbiication totally flopped, and to remain as
much in the dark, as if the doors were shut.
I.iK the prefeut mode of publilhing the
lebates is exposed to a still greater evil—
indue influence I I do not mean, that the evil
low does, or ever wi'l exist, whilst Con,
yrefs retains its preient purity. But let me
lik-hus the Almighty pledged himfelf, to
Idlinguilh America with such peculiar fa
' or i that the Federal Dome flia'l for ever
:oatinue inaccessible to corruption ? Has he
promised, that whenever a man, fubieft to
die common frailties of humanity, presents
limfelf as candidate for a feat, the fiery
jrdeal of cleßionecring shall completely melt
r.vay and consume ail the allov of vice nncf
oily, and leave hiin nought but pure fter
ing virtue to carry into Congress ?
Were the millennium soon to commence,
,ve might reft iecure. But the prefrnt
.ongrefs themselves have already founded
he alarm : they have toid us, that, by an
increase in the representation, the avenues
if the house will be widened for the ad
niffion of improper characters. And if, ;.t
he next election, even one unprincipled in
lividual clambers into Congress. he alone
;au, by netifpaper complaivts of mifreprefexita
:icn, so pcijicwd the fliort-hKnri-Wi iters, as
culler UifiUnce them altogether, or to make
hem glad, for peace' fake, to submit their
nanufenpts to hi* infp^chon,— to receive
rom his hands whatever he thinks proper
o write, whether he has Jpok.cn it or 'not,
—and to commit it to the pref , without
;x?mination, —thus a . mere ma
:'lines, as the very Letter-Boxes, that
land at the printers' windows, ready to re
:eive whatever any man chufes to' thrust
nto tliem.— Or fhoidd they prove restive,
ind refufe compliance, he may prosecute
hem for pretended Libels and' Defamation
ind prove that it is a breach of "Privilege
or perhaps High Treafcn, to publish any
Jebates at all ! ! !
_ But suppose, inflead of one corrupt indi
vidual, a corrupt party should thu - fubiu
rate the short-hand-writers, —the publica
:ion of the debates must, under their con
rol, become a mere " Nose of wax?' which'
:hey may wring and twist to their own pur
ges. like'the old French Gazette, of which
he Monarch dictated every fyllable,,giving
lis fubje&s what information he pl?afed,
—and, when he pleased, keeping them to
ally in the dark.—They will thus have an
opportunity cf faying and imfayiitg at plea
"ure, —of mis-quoting and distorting the argu
nents of their opponents, whose speeches
ire either totally omitted, or Jketchjudfecun
siumartem, and pared down to a mere core —
3f giving what complexion they pleafe'to
whole entire debates,—of {training and
misinterpreting the sacred text of the con
liitution itfelf, —and thus converting the
pens of the short-hand-writers into fo°ma
ny daggers, with which they may ltab and
aflailinate the liberties of America.
Were there no other mode of preventing
tne baneful effects of such a dangerous con
trol over the liberty of the pref,, it would
be wife in the State Legislatures, instead of
laboring to unlock the doors of the Senate,
rather to aim at locking up those of the
House of Representative . whilst that body
is yet pure and uncontaminated,— and
breaking the key, left they should ever be
opened again. But the National Aflembly
of France have furnifhed us with the fuc
cefsful example of a'lefs suspicious plan,
that will obviate all the evils, to whicn the
publication of debates i 3 at present exposed
in America,—and that is a confederation of
short-hand-writers.
Such a confederation, however, cannot
be effectually formed, except by legislative
authority. But, strongly as Congress are
convinced of the utility of the measure
motives delicac) ar? alone fujficiait >:•prevent any aftlve interference on their
i.art. In permitting the Short-hand-wri
ters to chufe the mo ft convenient Stations
on the floor of the House, they have per
haps done as much, as could with proprie
ty be expected of them. It remains with
the State Legislatures to do the reft, and to
Step forward to the relief of America, who
frauds eying the fair and not forbidden fruit of
the tree of knowledge.—but, iike Tanta
lus, uttabie to taste, unlef; some intermedi
ate hand be (tretched forth, to pluck it, be
fore it vaniih from her fight.
How easy for the legislature of each state,
to appoint a person for the purpose I—The
joint labors of fifteen (hort- hand-writers
(--Mot fail to do ample justice to the molt
interesting debate there will then be no
complaints of misrepresentation,—no dan
ger of interruption :—un-influenced by
fniiles or frowns, these men will boldly
pubiifh the truth—atte't it under their
hand . —and, thus authenticated, Stamp it
with the seal of immortality.
Nor will any difficulty arise from the pre
sent scarcity of Short-hand-writers.— \len
of talents and integrity abound in every
state of the Union : and if, within any rea
sonable time, e to three or four States appoint
men of thi; description,—though now un
acquainted with Short-hand, they may, be
fore the nest meeting of Congress, acquire
'' nt full in the art, to pubfifii the de
!• of*the ensuing feffidn, if not with un
erru, accuracy, at least with a degree of
correctness hitherto un-attained in Ameri
ca,— efptc'ally if they be careful to adopt
the fame system of writing,—an uniformity,
in that particular, being efientially neces
sary for men,who are to ast in concert, and
nuift frequently consult each other's notes.
Their publications may be forwarded by
every po.'t, to everv member of every state
Legislature in the Union, and by them soon
communicated to their constituents:—and
thus the Wisdom of our Representatives, no
longer eclipsed by lhort-hand misrepresen
tation, will dart its rays to the remotest
boi ads of America, dispelling every where
the clouds of discontent and jealousy, en
lightening the great budy of the people with
political Knowledge, and warming every
bosom with federal affection, and confidence
in the general government.
" Thtfe thiars ought, ye to have done, and not
" to leave the other undone."
Aeove-Bcahd.
Philadelphia, March 24, 1792.
«=• •—1 .
i~vr t'ue NA'i 'ON.'.'r. G.JZF-TTi''.
BRUTUS, No. IV.
On the F UjVD LXO SYS TZ It.
' 'HS perpetual tixes which have arlfen
J. out of the funding system, bv which
the indul rious mechanic, the laborious far
n?er. and generally the poor and midd'i ig
clslies of people, who are without the
sphere of Speculation, are to their lateSl i
po'ferity, made tribi: rv to foreign and
domeftic Speculator;, are now to be tonfid-!
ered- It is a practice, which like the fvf-!
tem from which it originates, has been im j
ported from England, a conntry 5 n which 3 \
debt originally funded at Sixteen million,!
by anticipation has been encreafed in lefsj
than a century, to upwards of two hun
dred and feveniy million Sterling ; while
t'-e r a ife of perpetual taxation, has con- j
Itanriy attended its progress, until every
objeftprefented to the senses, not except
ing light, has been included iu the avarici
ous gcafp of the treasury.
Here then let us pause before we pro
ceed in the fame path, to consider the in
jii' :ce and the impolicy of this baneful
system of anticipation with the unlimited
taxes annexed to it ; and the numerous
' <vh' n av. ait us and our posterity from
; :ition. Already has our own
t"* l ' 10-fupport the funding system,
extended its wide Jtrafp to every article
...; Jy has it began on the
pre. / e country, "either have the
fear ce, of agriculture, and do
tr.e' i. ity. or even the utmost re
cefieso ftirefteo;apedlt3 vig'lance and
fagacit- we hav:- en the greatest n'ecef
faries of life, loaded v. ith duties for its sup
port, even the fait, 1: 'to give a relish to
the daily repalt of the hired cultivator of
the foil, orthe unfortunate slave, has not
escaped its avarice. These evils have not
only been committed but perpetuated, by
pledging all the nxes without limitation
to the present holders of certificates'; and
in vain will it be to fay, that the people by
their future representatives, may repeal
this ast when its con:., lueuces become grie
vous; a perfeverino senate, with the
feeds of ariftoc cy implanted in their com
position, who in spite of a maiority of the
states still conceal their proceeding-s en pub
lic bufinef; from the public eye, w ill be ever
ready with their negative to Itiflethe voice
et the people. -This moue of pledging the
taxes and granting away the future" re
sources of the country, is contrary to the
spirit of the Constitution, it violates that
great privilege given to the representatives
ot the people to originate money bill-, ant],
renders it nugatory by destroying itsfpirit;
*nd like the system, of which ids an •IT-
Hiring, is of foreign (irnwt!i, and has been
imported from Great-Britain. When the
framers of the Constitution, introduced the
wife and salutary provifio i of originating
money bills, iu favour of the re.j refenta
tives of the people, they, no doubt, had a
view to the important powers which are
blended together and given to the Presi
dent and Senate ; and very properly con
sidered it as a neceffjry check, to guard a
gain'l tiie growing influence of these two
constituent parts of the government : but
little could they have conceived, that the
very rirft Houle of Representatives, with a
view to support the permanency and value
of their darling funding system, by perma
nent taxes, would surrender this important
privilege which they held astruftees of the
people only for two years, forever into the
hands of the executive branches of the gov
ernment: A surrender which has deprived
the people by their future a"d successive
representatives, of that invalu ibie privi
lege of consenting to the taxes which hey
are to pay. of judging either of the quanti
ty, the duration, the application, or the
nece'lity of such taxes, or even the modes
.11 which they are to be collected ; and has
de'frnyed the reciprocity of taxation and
representation, a principal which has been
so highly valued as to occasion a long and
bloody war. by saddling generations yet to
come who are not parties and cannot give
their consent, with heavy impost and ex
cise laws. Such are some of the fatal and
unconfiitutional errors, in which a too ap
parent fonduefs for the funding system, and a
consequent desire to Stimulate the value of
'tock to twenty-live fliillings to the pound
has involved our rulers.
Again : the conduct of the late National
Mfembly forces itfelf to our view and o
bliges us to draw an inviduous comparison,
between that body and our late representa
tives, very much to the prejudice of the lat~
ter--W hile they were securing the rights of
the people, they declared that, "public
contributions Shall be debated and fixed
every year by the legislative body, and can
i ot continue in f orce longer than the last
day of the following session, if they are not
exprelsly renewed." A constitutional pro
viiion which will hand down their names
to jutureages, as the patriotic and jealous
defenders of the rights of the people ; and
will delervedly obtain them the bleffirigs of
posterity, because it will secure them from
accumulating and oppreTive fyftemsof tax
ation, tl.e great source of all the injuries to
society. While the surrender before al
luded to, will hand down the memory of
another body oi men in a different point of
view, and will lead our posterity, while
they are labouring under increasing taxes,
ra u-p.c.u.i ill..- authors" of their misfor
tunes,as the unfaithful! trustees of the sa
cred rights of the people. At a time when
loans, funding fyitems, monopolies, boun
ties and perpetual taxes, have arrived at
their la t llage, and when the numerous
e - * w. ill attend them, have come to a
i crilis winch threatens to convulse Eur< pe
|to its centre ; aliour measures controuled
Iby the avarice and ambition of the few,
j seem to be following the fame course, and
,to b j leading to the lame evils; political
i no.dies are springing up among us, and
j principles subversive of the equal rights of
| man are in rapid fuccefnon introducing
I tliemfelves into our system of government
|iaws, our noi cal barkfeems ro be gently
! eliding down that Stream leadingfrom free
dom to Slavery, which that o every other
nation has gone before it, , while our rc ■
publican governments aue pacing away
like a lhadow, with a durntion so ihort a
scarcely to entitle them to a place in
hiitory. ji R U T U S.
March 23.
PRICE or STOCKS,
Six per cent , per £. - a ,/j,
Three per ccnti, - , 'j?-?.
Deferred fix per cents, - ,:/ T _ 2 .
Final Settlements - j /
Indents - - 1/6
Bank ilock, 1-2 share; 4 5^ —per cent, advance.
PROPOSALS
ARLiifued for publifivng by fnbfcription, in
Mafi'achufetts, a system for the discipline of
the Artillery in the American United States In
three parts—Part ift, containing the duty and
prafticcof light field artillery—2d. The theory
and practice of heavy artillery, with an appendix
on the origin and principle of courts martial
3d. Laboratory duty By Jf'iDam Stmrns,
fcltj. the work to bn handforriHy printed on good
paper, neatly bound, and lettered, in three pocket
volumes, containing in the whole more than on
tn.iufand pages, illultrated with plates—price, one
dollar each volume—those who fubferibe /"or fix
U-tts to have a seventh gratis—To be pubiiflied
as soon as five hundred copies are fubferibed for
Sublcriprions received by the principal printers
and book-fellers in the United Slates, and at the
of the National Gaz. tte, No. 230, High-
Street, 3 t jaw
*** The Report of the Secretary of the
Treasury on the Exafi AB. for sale at this
OJfi.ce.
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury
on a National Bank. ' \
PHILADELPHIA.
March 26, 1799.
On Friday In ft the Irdian Warriors, late
iy arrived in this cityfrom the Six Nation
'ad an audience of the President of thi
United States.
By a late regulation, the importatioi
of all kinds of tea into the.city of Amfter
'-'.-■m, in Holland, is prohibited under a fe
'• ere penalty.
Much time was spent in the House o
Representatives on Saturday, before the;
could agree on a proper device for the l°e
c!eral coins. But, inUead of the emblema
ti ■ figure of liberty which they have adopt
ed, h >w iimple and a-propos it would hav<
been, si.ice they haye retained the .Eagl*
on one fide, to have placed fifteen emb emati
pigeons on the other— A device, which per
haps (all things considered) would be mucl
more in character.
The Indian chief, from the Oneidanati
o'.a who 'vas buried in this city on Wed
nefdav la 0- , was about 26 years ofarte, ar<
nt' led Ojikheta • the ap-fUnt'to ' e "/'.a .•
qnrttt. or Dtfeiprrtc, having beeri aflumed fe
Vera I year ago in compliment to the mar
quisdela Fayette, who had (hown such ai
attachment to this man of nature as t<
take him, with his own family, to France
where he wiled him to remain. Th<
A" nrPatriir however, so common to the an
cient inhabitants of this continent,overcam.
the f; -dor of courts and every induce
rn it that France could offer to engagt
hira to remain. He returned, after a
of a few ye. rs, to embrace the savage lift
in Ine sorest of America ; from whence
hir attachment to ths -United States aa-ai:
d; :w hirn about .1 month aao—the hard:'.i..
of h: s journey at a very unfavourable feafoi
occa loxu d a pleurisy, which carried hin
off.
-J; .-ig all the various papers of propo
fa I I r the eftablifhnient of banks in feve
ra'..-iles and towns of the United States,
no- a ie oi" them exhibits a (park of immoui
exc. pt those published at New Brunfwic 1
(in ierfey) on Tuesday last. Indeed, the
'3 bein r naturally dry, not much of thi
lb.. could !>■ expected. —It is there propo
se -, that " Potato'. Bank, be eftablilhed in fona.
cen aipart of New-Jersey ; to consist of
five thousand shares; each share to be ont
hundred bushels of good merchantable po
ta r esof the Tedjort, as they are known tc
ke ; • heft : no check to be drawn on faic
Bark tor lef; than five bt/Jhtls, or more that
five '.hcujand. —It is further proposed to for
ward the eftablifhnient of this bank b;
promoting a lottery, to erect buildings foi
thdfafe the noutoes. ipdir'iny a
tne clerks, t runners, tellers, See.—An act 0:
incorporation is also talked of.
The laftpapers from London teem wit!
intelligence from India relative to the mi
noejjvring, marching, and countermarching
of Lord Cornwallis and Tippoo Saib. Thi
retjreats ot the several English comman
der- appear to have been attended with e
very species of misfortune and diftref
(fniprt of actual capture) that it was poffi
ble\, for human nature to bear. Tippo<
Saib is accused by the Engiifh of havinj
foreed them to draw the fvvord, by a wan
ton violation of afolemn treaty, the over
grty.vu power he poflefFes, a perfidious am
barbarous disposition, and afpirit of infati
ablfl ambition that has frequently givei
juit cawe of alarm for the fafetv of th<
company's p -.geffions in India On the o
tiier hand, according to Tippoo's repre
t nttition of matters, the once peaceab'u
aid philosophical region of Indoftan i:
pa !»red with European intruders, whose
loiof end is to foment mifundcrftanding:
bettyeeii the native princes of the country,
andpy dividing, at last reduce them all to
• Hreign yoke—a private letter from a
i ibjfltern officer at Camaanoreto his friend
in England,' cautions him again ft repoling
too implicit a faith in the governmental
publications of the military tranfa£tions in
Ind.p —" few candid accounts (fays he)
havej reached Bengal ? and it is well
kno'i n that the ofneers letters have not
only been opened, but flopped at Head
Quakers."
The following is translated from a late
Fre«;h paper, and is the more worthy of
attention, as it is expressive of the opinion
of o.je of th° firft politicians in Europe on
the c'j"]<equences of the French revolution.
—" 'Thisl revolution (fays he) is the'moft
extraordinary of any ever mentioned in his
tory. Enlightened by the philosophers of
the age, the French nation has given itfelf
the bift conftitutiort possible. furpaifing even
that As England in it; mingling a jufter pro
portion of republicanism with monarchy ;
confirming the legiilative power to the na
tion. and the executive to the king, fubor
dinan nevertheless to the representatives of
the nation. It is not for us to fay what
will t.-e the ultimate end of this revolution;
this, however, we may fafely aflert, that it
will it lead serve to correct the abuses of
the preceding French monarchy, which was
perh ;ps rather of an aristocratic thanadef-
P° nature ; and to diminilh the burdens
or 1 r people by a ftri£ter oeconomy and
the c 'tinguifliment of immense debts; 10
i'4-nd: r the government more republican inj
ts principles, more moderate in its ambV
ion, mid more inclined than ever, in con
:ert with the emperor and the king of
Prnina, to maintain the balance of thepow
•r of Europe. — There is not much reason
) fear that the reft of F.urcpe will soon
ollow the example of Fran>As none of
hem have the irritable and tier}' character of
he' Yench. lb none of them groan nnder a
> eight of opprefiion at all to be compared
,vith what che people of France fuffered
>efore the revolution. All the prefentgo
'ernments of ; urope, efpeciallv the monar
;hie% are become comparatively mild and
noderate ; are distinguished by their fond
led for good order, and are imperceptibly
ipproaching to be in fact no more than mere
•epublics ; while republics, on the coutra
■y, are more and more assuming the severe
features of monarcliy."
i.xtraft ofa letter from Cape Francois,
dated the 22d January, 1792.
"After the d< ;ruction of Port an Prince
by the mnlattops. t i/jy found it neCessary
to get rid of 206 negroes, who had assisted
..»si in their enterprise, under the name of
Zuzards, promising them liberty. To ac
quit themselves of this promise, they did it
in a cruel manner, as might be expected
from their : t!;ey freighted a
of Nantzto transport them to a de
art I(land, and the captain intending t«
.ake the advantage of this expedition, car
ried them to Campeche (Spanish
in) to fell them ; but a coalting cutter pre
sented him from putting his design into
execution—and feeing himfelf disappointed
le landed them at Camp'eche(Eng. ciomin.)
ivhere they were soon picked up and sent
:o Jamaica, from whence they arrived h
orae days ago, under ti .i oy oi : .vo fri
gates, who demand 50,000 livres freight
uid expences.
" Of all the northern ports of this Island,
here remains only Port-a-Paix, Jean Ra
>ello, the Mole, Gonaiver, the high moun
ains, Plaifance Marmelaid, Eorgue : ail
)ther places are destroyed, and lately Ma
ibaroux, part of Fort Dauphin, reduced to
1 heap of allies.
"f lour is .iaif d a little, as it is report
ed that the Bouideaiix merchants fulpend
heir armaments; all other provision:. are
bundant. Produce difficult to be got; in
lartitular molailes, and the prices are ex
irbitant, although in our opinion they must
aife flill."
The President of the United States, by and
mh the advice and corifent of the Senate ii.is
nade the following appointments and promo
ions :—
—Id.ilM'itamUi.f «. \ a fntapamg ef hfi\try. ll
Vermont—Wiiiiam Eaton, Cap.'. James Lrn
lerhill, Lieut. Charles Hyde, Ens".
N. York— Isaac Guion, Capt. Robt. Coch
an, Lieut. N. nning J. Vilcher, Ens.
N. Jerfey—Zebulon Pike, Capt. John Read,
-.li-ut. John Polhemus, Ens.
Pcnnjylvania—Jacob Slough, Capr. Robert
Thompson, Lieut. John Paine, Ensign.
Ddazuart— James Wells, Capt. M. Pines,
s ennj,Lieut. William Diven, Pemf. Ens.
Maryland—Henry Caiberry, William Buch
nnan, William Lewis, captains. Benjamin
Henry De Butts, Joseph Gough, lieuten
mts. Campbell Smith, William Pitt Gaffa
vay, Charles Wright, ensigns.
Virginia —Nicholas Hannah, Joseph Brock,
iohn Heath, captains. William M' Rea, Hen
y B. Towles, .Samuel Tinfley, lieutenants. Aa
on Gregg, PeterGrayfon, Peter Marks, ensigns.
N. Carol'na—Jofeph Kerr, Capt. Thomas E.
iumner, Lieut. Samuel Davidfon Ens.
■'romotzons and Appointments in the Battalion of
Artillery.
PROMOTIONS
Henry Burbeck, Major Commandant, vic»
'eroufon, killed November 4. 1791.
John Peirce, Captain, vice Savage, resigned
)Hober 15, 1791.
Moses Porter, Captain, vice Burbeck, pro
moted Nov. 4, 1791.
Daniel M'Lane, Captain, vice Bradford, kil
:d Nov. 4, 1791.
George Demlar, Lieutenant, vice Spear, kil
:d.4th November, 1791; promoted from an
Mifigncy in 2d regiment, to rank from sth
<larcn, 1792.
APPOINTMENTS.
Joseph Elliot, Lieutenant, vice Pierce, pro
noted. (South-Carolina)
Purcy Pope, do. vice Porter, do. (Virginia)
Ebenezer Malfjy, do. vice M'Lane, do.
Maryland)
vle ts or o log 1c At Observations.
March, 1792.
D. H Bar. Ther. Wtnd\ U'eatJl
Aonday, 19. 7 29. 65 42 Calm.{Foggy.
2 29. 6 59 S.W. Cloudy.
r uefday, ao. 7 29. 8 42 N.W. Fair.
2 29. 9 53 do. do.
Vednefday, 2J. 7 30. o 40 S. W. Far.
2 3° 1 47 w.N.w do.
Thursday, 22. 7 30. 4 32 ~W7 Fair.
2 30. 4 50 S. W. do.
Friday, 23. 7 30. 35 40 S~ Imidy
2 30. 2 54 do. 'Rain.
Saturday, 24. 7 30. ; JI S7 Rain"
2 30. 7 52 do. Cloudy. '
Sunday, 25. 7 30. 25 45 jN. E. Cloudy.
2 j S°- a 47 I do. Iftiir.T?"o the YeomAnrY of tie United Statu.
WHEN ministers are fufr'ered to introduce,
and leg! Viators adopt, the spirit and regu
lations of a muirary corpi, into civil government,
and by arbitrary lavvs interfere in the private ac
tions of citizen*—it manifefts a fbameful igno
rance ps that knowledge of history, with which
every Itatefown should be acquainted, or a Want of
that found judgment', and of those jult principles
of which would enable therti to niake
a ufeful a- vantage of such knowledge.
The biltcfy of civil society does not furnifh a
Single instance of legislators interfering with, and
directing (he occupations of citizens, but with in
jury.
The celebrated Solon introduced this wretched
system of policy. To ingratiate himfelf with the
licentious citizens of Athens S he ordained, that
the hufband/nen Ihould not fell the produce of their
farms to a.tv, but the Athenians. The Irnall
iquantity of oil, tailed in the country, was alone
admitted to a free Unlimited sale. This unjust
regulation lerved a temporary purpole of Idpply
jng the city with provilions, at a low price. But
the farnr.ers, feeling themfeives injured, converted
so greac a proportion of the country into olive
yards, that in a fliort time provilions became dear
er than ever, and the quantity of oil produced, oc
casioned Athens to become one of the mo ft consi
derable markets for oil, iii that quarter of the
world.
The Athenian policy, of reftri&ing the sale of
the produce of the country, was imitated by the
Romans, and produced similar efFeOs. The cul
ture of grain was neglected in the heighborhood of
Piome, a id the distant provinces were OpprelTed,
in order to luppiy the city with bread.
Modern politicians, without adverting to the in
evitable confluences, have too generally adopted
the regulating spirit of the ancients. Some time
previous to the late war, American and Bririfh
veflels, f*eking for the belt market for their
wheat, in the Mediterranean, were accustomed to
put into Marseilles, to procure a knowledge of the
markets; if the difference of piice was not conli
derab'ly in favor of any other port, the British
adied a? agent, had directions to fell.
It sometimes happened, though very rare, that
the veflels were ordered to Genoa or Leghorn.
This freedom of comnierce gav£ umbrage to foine
of the people—they pro'cured an order, for institu
ting a society of Plenty* whose duty it was to seize
any provilions coming into Marseilles, in order
that the numerous citizens of ih&t place might be
/urnifhed witii such ri eccflaries at a low price.
this regulation, the vi/Tels avoided the pott)
and provilions became deater than before.
Holl-nd affords a Striking contrast in favor of a
fVec commerce. The territory of that republic,
not raising a futficiency of wheat for their own
consumption, have, by the means of a free com
merce, not only ensured a full supply fur them
ielves, but fiequently for their neighbors. Du
ring tne late commotions in Francc, the distress
of tne people of Paris in 1789, was relieved by
corn, lupplied by Meflrs. H°p f « of Amrterdam,
to the amount of one millich of French iivroi.*
in the kingdom «f Siam. Historians attest, that
in the middle of the fifteenth century, above a
thousand foreign velfels frequented its ports annu
ally. Bat the king, tempted with so much
riches, endeavored to engross all the commerce of
his country $ by which means he annihilated,
fttccefl'nejy, mines, and even agri
culture.
The extravagant ambition of Louis XIV. not
only made him anxious to become the arbiter of
Europe, by carrying lite and deftrudtion into the
ttriitorie.3 of his peaceful neighbors, but also by
interfering in, and regulating all the actions of his
own subjects. He wiihed that they ihould regard
his ablolute will ai the alone object of Contempla
tion and attention. He instituted manufactures,
encouraged commerce, »nd Undertook public
■works, and yet his arbitrary government rendered
thole very eftablifliments useless. The very steps
he took to render the agricultural iuieieft subser
vient to his projetls of manufactures, occasioned
the ruin and of both. Notwithftand
iiig the, numerous triumphal arches and Itatues,
eredted in France, to the memory of Louis XIV,
ar.d the adulation of his priests, his miftrefies, and
of proftitote court writers, it is certain, thlt his
fy'ltem of policy tended to destroy the agriculture
of his kingdom. Independent gentlemen, living
on their own efiiates, became ruined—the country
was deserted for places at court, or in the arm#y,
and the cultivation of the land was lefc to a poor
tenantry. Smollet in his travels through France,
fays, " in Burgundy I saw a peasant ploughing
the ground with ajack-als, a lean cow, and a he
goat, yoked The pealants
are so w.etchedly poor, and so much opprefied by
their landlords, that they cannot afford to indole
their grounds, or give a proper respite to their
lands, or to ltock their farms with a fufiicient
number of black cattle, to produce the neceifaiy
manure, without ivb'.:b agriculture can never be
carried in to any degree of perfenion. The pea
fan"s in the fcuth of France are poorly clad, and
lock as if they were half Itarved, diminutive,
iwarthy and meagre j ana yet the common peo
ple, wiio travel, live luxuriously on the road.
Tne kingdom of France, although enjoying a
good foil and a fine climate, yet owing to the po
verty and wretcjiedncfs of the people (previous to
the lat< glorious jevolution) out of one hundred
and thirty millions'of acres, which that country
contains, only lix millions were thought to be un
der a full cultivation, the remainder under tillage,
affording little more than lubfilLence to a milera
ble tenantry.
The British nation a: present appear flourifliing}
but the government having adopted the
five system of interfering in the occupations of itv
citizens, that fine country must fall a lacrifice to
such unjuU principles. Some time since, the mi
ni fter formed the delign of erecting a boafd to
watch over the iflterefts of trade. The projedt
was carried into execution, but trade, lo far irom
increaling, declined the moment that these coun
feilors of commerce began to give her lefTons : Of
tliis authentic proofs were produced, and it wa.>
* Neckir's Adminijiration, 33*.
aboJi&ed in 1752. Mr. (jibbon, the Ta
citus, was a member of this inftirution. A lev
years ftnee, some farmers in Yor!vu)',rc weie im
trifoned and fined to the amount of.feve.ral :h<or
tand pounds, for cultivating tobacco, contrary t<
an ait of pariiamenc. The wool bill, enacled :.i
---t'j a law in 1787, is a remarkable iriftan'ce of ?
violation of the liberty and property of the Eng
iifh farmer. The whole advant* eof chis mo-i.x
poly centers in the wealthy principals engaged in
the woolen wiiiltt the abonng ma
nufacturers can scarce earn bread above the point
of starving, and whilst they and their families are
daily falling on the parities for support; The ty
ranny and oppreilion of the law does little credit to
iiie Bntiih government. The objfft of it is t<
prevent the exportation of wool to France, where
che farmer could procure twenty per cent, more
for it than in England. By such arbitrary and un.
just reftri&ionb and regulations j by excise laws $
by raxes and impolitions of various kinds, the'
yeomanry and the independent country gentlemen
of 3 or 4001. per ann. are almoll annihilated. The
gloomy eye of the financier, rolling with banafui
vigilance in search of new ways and means, .ets
neither tile crops, nor the domestic comforts of the
farmer escape. Agriculture wiil not long furvivtr
such meaiures, or if it lTiould exist, it will bethe
uvidious speCtacle of great lords and their devour
ing ltevVards on one hand, and a miserable depen
dent peasantry cn the other.
When Colbeit demanded of an old experienced
merchant what rteps his master ihould rake to en
courage commerce, the answer was, Let us ahne.
The citizens of the United States engjyed in agri
culture, in manufactures, in mechanics, and even
in the Codjijhery, may withjuftice and propriety
cjive a iimilar answer to Cougrtfs.
A Farmer.
March 1, 1792.
ON MONARCHY.
[Travjlatedfrum a French paper printed at Pans*]
; THERE has been puulilhed in this city a
franflation of a work, entitled Common SenJ'e,
; which was formerly addrelfod to the Americans,
|by Mr. Payne, to peifuade them to independence.
! t his performance oi a philosopher, who h&s.re
cently dejended thecaufe of liberty with the fame
luccels in Europe, appears to us to contain aliex
t;ons which may apply to the situation, the
ners, and the population of the Americans , cut,
according Co his theoiy, as modelled in his iace
work called The Rights of Tvlan, we hold his
opinions to be dangerous in a country, fucn as
France, which in both moral and phylical refpe&s,
o whvJly different from America.—We will there
fore take the iibeity to make fomc obfervat'ons
on Mr. Payne's ti.cory of government. —The au
thor of these remai ks ha» already observed the
Jame to Mr. Payne in private conversation.—
We therefore pubiitli them to pievencthe world
being imposed on by the authority of a gieat,
and reaily meritorious nam:.
Mr. Payne pretends that Monarchy is contrary
co the natural rights of man. Jf he means arbi
trary and absolute monarch), that is to fay, fun
yjcjSb-sui.s..&vijenliy light?, Jince udtyo
tTrh is an open violation of ail rights'. But, can
he deny that monarchy is capable of federal mo
difications ?—For instance, will he fay that a po
pular monaichy (where the people have ali. the
power and aii the delegations) is contrary to
natural rights ? He cannot persuade a nb«lf;
friend to the French Constitution, of which lie
ihimfelf is an ardent admirer, that this i 4 the
cafe. Perhaps indeed the word rhor.archy Joes
not properly designate a government ofthiskitud 3
a l 9 Mr. Payne has remarked that it does b,. no
means characterize the Britith government, (iiut
a faulty denomination does not at all alter the
nature of a constitution. We call the govern
ments of Pruliia, Spain, Portugal* Naples, See. mo
narchies, when at the lame time every one krows
that they dilier in no rel'pect from the dei.<Jtic
empires of Rufiia, Denmark, Turkey, &c.)and
that all governments have no other lupport ' ban
public opinion, which governs tyrants themf--lves
as well as free nations.
Mr. Payne adds, that monarchy is no less con
trary to divine right than to natural right, at is
somewhat surprizing to fee a philosopher draving
arguments from the bible. Poliibiy, proofs, of
this fort might have made some imprelfions 4 pon
the minds of the Americans, who are generally
much more religious than the people of Europe.
The government of the Jews was theocratic j they
had God for a king, that is to Jay, the p :ib.
Ought we to be furpiized that thele last men ion
ed people employed themselves in jnfpirin* the
world with a hatred for human monarchy., and
that they held the very wi/hing for such a ihinf
amongst those fins that merited the feveieft <ihaf
cifements ? Who was he that gave the Jewsjfuct
a Shocking picture of royalty ?—Was it no ; Sa
muel, who governed the people under the ti ie 01
judge, and whose personal interests prejudices hirr
again It a change in the form of government ?*—
'1 he inflituting of kings, however, did not /nni
hilate the influence of the priesthood— '"on
flantly accused of impiety all those who wouh no
servilely iubmit to their will, and more than >no
influenced the people to revolt against the tbl me
Samnel hirnfelf gave an example of a like -on
duct, and was faithfully followed by other-nig!
prieiis y and we may constantly observe then
never losing fight of their great principle, th
demolition of monarchy. After their letun
from the oabylonilh captivity, they perfuad<id th
nation that their kings were the cause of alijihei
misfortunes, and the people once more con6?ntc,
to give up the temporal power into their han Js.
Mr. Payne alTerts that (( hereditary mon,'rch;
is doubly contrary to nature." If he means, jere
that pretended right by which a man, in * rcu<
of birth only, conliders himleif as the prop ier.o
of a whoie nation, certainly nothing can be mori
absurd, or dilhoworable to mankind : he ii
deceived if he supposes that a free and fo%<reigr
people cannot confer upon any one familv ?,v he
reditary right to exercise the fun&ions of ro alty,
It is not for the sole advantage of this familv thai
such a right is delegated ; it is, on the co'ntiafry]
for their own good. They can revoke it ♦when
ever chev plcafc, and do not undertake to d fpoic
of the rights of poftenty, who are also invertedi
with power, upon th'ir own account to tonfei
Sovereignty.
Mr. Payne very artfully details to us the incon
veniencies of hereditary monarchy, but does not
seem to comprehend its advantages. He declares
that if it would preserve a nation from civil wars,
this COflfideration woo ! d be of great weight with
him ; but heavers, " it is one of the greatert
falfehoods with which mankind were ever gulled j
and that instead cf ics preserving peace, it is the
greatest enemy to good order, and destroys the
very basis upon which it is ere&ed."—This as
sertion, so contrary to the general opinion, isno»
supported by any proofs. Pofiibly Mr. Payne
will explain his ideas fully on this fiibjecl in the
new work which the world expedis from him j ana
will prove to the people of Poland that they were
deceived in attempting, by the institution of 3r
hereditary throne, to prevent anarchy and civil
wars«
Translated from a late French paper —[Gazette
Uni vei felle. J
Copy of a private letter from a 'Traveller t dated
Venice, Nov* 27.
<c THE Ati ftocrates of Venice do in genera!
approve the French revolution. This is not a
paradox, as might at firft fight be supposed, but
011 the contrary a truth of Which every one may
be convinced, who considers the principal effects
of the revolution in France, in relation to the in
terett; of the Venetian ariitocracy.
it is irhpofliblc the Venetians fliould difspprovc
of a revolution which has reftri&ed the clergv tu
the difciplirie of the earliell ages of the church,
efpeciaily when we coofider that, they them ft Ives
have been extremely aitive in enlightening Eu
rope, to the piejudice of the extravagant preten
fiuiis of the Holy See, as well as in fuccefsfully
combating and letting at defiance the acp <tifm,
cur.es, and anathemas of that court. It was the
Venetians that gave the firft example to the other
powers of F.urope, of excluding the clergy from
temporal employments and civil offices, and
checking the officious activity of the patrons of
clerical incorporation, who were for greedily in
vading all the property of the people, it was
they who recognized the of the people to
choose their own niinifter.S ; ajncf that of the go
vernment, to give them suitable salaries. They
have done ftiil more; they have set an example
to France to reject those absolutions from fin
which the Popes had the impudence to grant, af
ter they had thundered out their unjulT cenfuies
againtt them. 1
With r,'g3rd to the French nobility, tliey are'
held in very little more veneration by the Vene
tians than the clergy. They suppose, and with
realon, that the Venetian and French noblefTe
are upon a very different footing, and have no
thing in common j they hold their own to be
more pure and potlefl:ng a clearer right to real
titles, its eP.ence having alwavs confided in the
adriiirtifbration of political rights and the excrcife
of foveieigh power 5 while the feodal nobility of
France derive their origin from no better than
robbers and tyrants, ar.J have at all time* exer
cised the prerogative of tyrants, as far as in them
la). They know, also, that tides of nobility
have been conlidered in no other lijihtjin France,
than mere parchments, iince the kings recovered
t!i.*ir power. and the people a part or their rights :
neither are they ignorant that rhe feodal nobilit\
(the only such, according to the prejudices of the
Gauh) wai almott extintt, and that all that re
mained, previou i to the revolution, Were
persons decorated With empty unmeaning titles :
they chink, in short, that the real feodal nobility,
remaining, and who are so vain cf their origin,
inllead of complaining, ought to thank the na
tional alfcmbly for having reflored every tiling to
ts natural or.er.
Tne more enlightened Venetians approve of
admitting all cicizens w'natfoever to the exercise
:)f political rights } altho' among(t themselves, j
:he right of governing is hereditary and confined !
■o a Angle family. This is w'nat properly conlii- i
'utes their aristocracy $ but there is not a single
person amongst them wh-o is convinced that the 1
.>refcnt Venetian form of government could not
iubfift, if the (fate were more extended, it is!
-Vcn now with amazing dimculty that such of the ;
noble V enetians whole names ate not written in !
the golden book (as it is called) as well as those or. |
the continent, and the rich citizens, are kept
within any tolerable bounds. The governing
arder are obliged to ule the mod conlummate art
n gradually attaching the mcft powerful to thei:
par:y, feeding some of another description with I
:xpe£ta;ion j while they themselves are employed '
in making others forget their own superiority.—
Subje&ed to sumptuary laws, without titles, 1
without decorat.ons, without any commercial 01 1
financial they are in fa<St little more
than private persons j and the laws regard them
as luch the moment they go out of the capital.
What most contributes to uphold the Venetian'
aristocracy, is their mild adminilhati' nof go- 1
vernment \ they have all the carts, perils and fa
tigues of government, without or.e of those ad
vantages which the French aristocracy heretofore
tnjoyed.
The Venetians (think what you will of them)
are not advocates for baitiles and letfes de cachc:,
Hotwithftanding they have a Jiate ir.quifition. They
find a great difference between these inltitutions.
Baftiles and lettres de cachet were instruments of
tyranny ablolutely useless to a despotic monarch
cf France, who could, whenever he pleased, pun
ilTi legally all crimes and plots againlt himlelf. But
this is not the cafe with the Venetian state inqui
sition, Mhich was evidently instituted against the
ariftocrates themselves. In refpedt to this trfju
nal, Venice oners a phenomenon to the world, un
exampled in the annals of history, a republic with
out parties or factions $ but this has rrot long been i
io. In 1764, a proportion was made to the fu
pieme council to fupprels it entirely : this was
opposed by a considerable majority, who ?fTerted
the state to be ntcefiary to the exig
ence of the republic. The follicitor, Trort, equal
ly distinguished by his eloquence and fine abilities,
was one of its moli strenuous advocates. Amongst
other arguuieaU vvhitk carded c&avidlion tQ al
mart- every mind, lie made of llie following—
Toukknotw t gentlemen, (faiei he} that lam one of
the ricbtfi individuals in this republic j and that i
have both credit and friends. Were you this day
tofupprefs the Jlat'e ir.quifition y 1 ivo tld to-morrow*,
without fear of punt foment, order a hundredJirokei
of the strappado to be given to several illuflrious
members of this ajjembiy, who have at different
times affronted me !
LUIS AND LANDS H)TIiALE.
THE Subscriber ivi/bes to jell sundry Lots and
Houjes in the town of Alexandria, in good
fit nations for bujinefs j feme of them are unimpro
ved* A/Jo J'everal trails of Land in the countiek
of baitfax and Loudoun j the Fairfax lands a r e
from one and u ha fto four miles ftom Alexandria £
s he Loudoun lands 45 to 50 miles. A credit wi.l '
hr given for a considerable part of the value if re
quired by the purchaser \ and as noperjon will buy
with out viciv mg the property, a description is un
necejjary. I ivill atJ'o fell Jeveral traEls of lan t
cn tbeweflern waters, in the inhabited par t of the
couttry, containing from 300 to 2000 acres each•
Thcfe lands will be fold low, either on long credit,
or for money, as may befl suit the purchaser. I
a trail of 500 aires of low land in Acce
mack county, on the Eastern Short of Virginia ;
ibcut acres of which are cleared, en the waters
f Mafjango River, navigable for boats through iLs
'and. "The land is of an excellent quality, and hea
vily timbered, with White-Oak and Fine, and .its
within 4 miles of a landing that a v.fjel of 9 to \o
feet water can load at. Mr. Walter Zayne, <whs
ives near the land, willfaew it to *ny whd tray
ncline to frurchaje.
JOSIAH WATSON.
Alexandria, Feb. 10 1792.
6 t 1 a nr.
a way on Wednejday night lajl, a Negre
Man, about twenty-three years old 5 had on a
Ight coloured short coal : to- k with him a pair of
'tather breeches and a pair of green jiiff do. a bea
ver hat half worn, narrow brim ana deep crown j
2 pair of boots 5 striped cotton and silk /tickings—
be is slim made—reads and writes a legible hand—«
las, J anr informed, prccurcd a pejs and a ctrtifi
ate cf his being a free man. It ;s probable he will
•rdeavor to get on board fotne vejjel, either at this
blace or New-York. He has a Jmall Jore under his
:chin, occaftoned by cutting out a wen. I will gh*e
ft en Do tars rexvard for securing him. if in this city j
Twenty Dollars if token in New-York, or any other
blace of the fame d fiance, and pay all reafenable ex
tenccs,
ANDREW MOOkE,
Spruce -firce: y No. 112.
Philadelphia j March 0, 3792.
H O W E L L's
LARGE MAP of PENNSYLVANIA.
work is engraved in the mofl flyle,
4 and will be ready for delivery m the Spring,
it 1 1 63 inches long and 36 inches wide, i. */ for the
voflpart very full if work (ex.-ept feme ftr.all; laces
f ivli'h mcteriah were not tojte kid) and was
wholly compiled from atiual Jurveys, acquired at
treat expenct of r nty, and wore than four years la
' Our, and from its manifefl public utility, the Legif
ature has betn pleased to grant the proprietor the
vm of three hundred pounds.
This map exhibits the County and Tewijbip Di
yifiors, and tbofe cf the Surveyors Dijlritls in the
Neiw-Purchafe, Donation and Depreciation Lands j
he waters, portages, and the Canal mountains iiad
valleys, reads, toiuns, &'c.
He thanks the Public for their *je?-y liberal Jul
'ription, end informs them that it ivi!' not be clsfed
nfore the middle of April next. lie fells bis small
ma?s, on canvajs, fvlded and cas'dfcr pockct car
iage, at nf6, and plain at ?fq.
READING HOl'/ELL.
North ffihfireet, No. 83—March 1.
TWENTY DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN away in August 1790 from the sub
scriber, living in Queen Ann's coun
:y, eastern shore of Maryland, a country
jorn Negro woman, called GRACE. She
is about middle aged, very low of ftatu.e,
round face, remarkable fniall feet, for a
negro, and has loft several ofher fore-teeth.
T"he lapse of time iince she has ab:"coru!ed
■enders it nnnecefi'ary to describe iier
.loathing. She is artful and talkative, and
1 make ITO doubt has passed for a free wo.
nan, and got into Pennsylvania or Dela
;,va:"e ltates. The above reward fliail be
3a'.d to any person securing said negro, and
giving information thereof to her master,
md reasonable charges if brought home.
EDWARD HARRIS.
Feb. 23. B\v law.
A few Copies ofths following REPORTS and
ACTS may be had at the Office, No. 239,
Market-Street.
REPORT of the Secretary of the Trta
fury, relative to a provijion for the
support of public credit.
Plan for the general arrangement of the
Militia of the United States, by the Secreta
ry at War.
Report of the Secretary of State for efla
blijhing a uniformity in the weights, men.
fures, and coins of the United States.
Report of the Secretary of the Treaftiry
on establishing funds for paying interest on
the debts assumed by the United States.
Attorney General's Report on the Judici
ary System ef the United States.
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND SWAINE,
AT THEIR GFF icE , no. 2 39, HIGH.STREET »
HEAR SIXTH-STREET,
1 tUIADSLPHIA.