a- <r* ■ , ,
-,X V Us M f» (f**s!»/ / /
\xl^V/ ,J / j i I x , >< C£ a
\vj( jt | *t i /fr i \ 1/ Ij(\* £'"-y AS
v \y
•Vol. I.
For the Nat(on al Gazette.
THE queflion relating to a conftitu
tional exc.Ofion of the Hiinillers os
religion from civil offices is a very feri
ous one, as it aff-fls a refpe&ablc nnd ve
nerable order cf citizen?, and fti 1 mo: .-
important as it involves certain fundamen
tal principles of government.
The American conflitutions hav: taken
different fides of the question ; eve - 'hef
lafeft date, r.nd -the: - Tore • ..-.'.fe
fidleft and cleared information, are in op
pefuion to each other thereupon. Those
who argue for the difq.ir.lification of the
t »Wy, fay That religions duties as
} '1 iufficient employment and are of a
nature not to assort villi the bustle of
political fcer.es, and therefore the ministers
of the altr.r fiiculd not only live by the al
tar, but remain at the altar, zdly. that
if eligible to public offices, their influence
over the people will give them an undue
advantage over other candidates, and.by
degrees throw all power into their hands,
which would be neither prudent nor fare
jd'y- That when they enjoy particular
emoluments or exemptions under the law,
it is but right ar.d just that these fhoukl
be ba ancid by particular legal difquali
fications and disadvantages ; other wife
this class of citizens \yolild not be on a le
vel with llie reft. Noyv the fir 11 argument
cannot be allowed the leall weight in the
question. It may be very proper for tht
confederation both of the pahor and the
flock, but is a matter to be decided by
them alone The second argument falls
under a fiir.i'ar observation. If the peo
ple are pleased to fend the man who in
ftru£ts thSm in their religious duties, t®
manage their other concei ns also, and he
is willing to undertake the service, on
principle can either be disfranchifet'
cf their common right ? on no principle
whatever that would not authorize a like
difqualification of any other profcflion, or
calling in life, till the right of chufing and
being chofcn should be narrowed down
to a rank ariltocracy. The third argu
ment has weight, but instead of being tur
ned against the right of such difqualifica
tions, it lies against the wrong of such ex.
emptions. Those who enjoy peculiar privi
leges under the law, may fairly be subject
ed by the law to peculiar d-.fabili' ies.—
And as it would be an injury to them to
impose the latter without the former;
so to grant them the former without the
latter, would be equally an injury - to all
others. When it is considered that reli
gion is not an objedt erf politi al iegulati
' on, and that the rights of ccnfcience are
from the nature thereof as well as by
most of the Declarations of Rights,except
ed out of the jurifdidtion of the civil ma
giftrate, too much care cannot be taken
to keep government and religion separate &
distinct. Andit feemsnot to have been duly
considered, by the constitutions which im
pose these civil djfqualification';, and which
probably did not mean to-violate their
principle cf religious liberty, that they pave
the way therefor as much by beginning
with the difqualificatfons as if they had
begun on the other fide with particular
favours and exemptions. For there is the
fame interference of the civil power on
account of religion, > n the one cafe aa in
the other; and on which ever fide the
government interferes, its interference on
the other fide follows of course. Justice
pleads for it. Privileges auihorite difa
.bililies, and difabiiities lead to privileges ;
'till at length the ministers of religion arc
established into a political order in lh«
llate, the magistrate is cloathed with com
pleat jurifdidtion over it; and religion is
turned into a mere engine of civil govern
ment. Let the ministers of religion ther
be considered by civil society merely
as members of civil society. Let then
claim no privilege not common to all othei
citizens; and let other citizcns impose nc
burden whatever not common to them
selves. Thisu's the only just and fafe
way in which this question can be de
cided. Phi lad. Aug. 8.
By P. FREN EA U : Pu'olijhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
SAT U R DAY, August n, 1792.
lot the National Gazette..
F all the virions pr.ffions or ptopen
\_y fities of man, Ambition is the leal',
wanted, and the molt pernicious in a re
public to the interests of the people. In
Jie ancient republics, charaC'c.rs of this
■<rt, when, elevated into il tions that af
foftted opportunities of doing mifc-':; f,
vere watched with an eye of the ftnciefi
Icrutiny, an ' when found consulting the
t :!-cr/ cl inle.e-Ils,
than the public good, were soon brought
to their senses by dismission from office,
nd so nit times banishment There is a
certain dtfeription of men who cannot ex
i!l without a scheme in their heads, and
when considerable abilities are joined to an
intriguing the vigilance of the
public eye ought to he re-doubled to pre
vent the consequences, which are usually
fatal. Mankind, by which is meant ; ine
tv-nine parts out of one bun red of man
kind, are ever incline ' to live at peace and
: ikivate a good under-ftapding w th each
other. The lemaining .mall part are tur
bulent, fchemiri: , muueiaufly cunning,
plotters of mifc: and the real authors,
.dvifers, and perpetrators of wars, treafbns,
;nd those other violences which have in
ill ages, more or less disgraced the annals
of man.
America may be a free, may be a su
perlatively liappy country—She may- be
Fnch as long as time endures, .f ambitious
ehara£ters are restrained within the bounds
of moderation, and Co controuled by the
public that their ambition may turn to the
and not to the ruin of their fellow
citizens. It is not neceiTary, however,
Lven in a republic, that an ambitious man
(hou'd be laid under the necefuty of dying
ivith his ambition in his belly. Such an
one -when he is prohibited from exerlir.r;
it to a bad purpose in a political line, will
naturally turn his ambitious views to the
jifcovery of the longitude, the conftruc
tion of lleam-engiii.s, balloons, or o'her
such contrivances, the invention or im
provement of which naturally conduits
people, at lead, to some of the inferior
niches in the temple of immortality
A. B.
Aug. 7. 1792.
1 ■ aw— ■
Circular letter from tkc Committee of Corref
pondencein this city, jar colletling informa
tion through the slate, relative to persons
qualified for Repreferiiatiues in Congress,
and eledors of a Pi ijident wad Vice-Preji
dent of the United Stales ■
O I R,
BY tiie inclosed copy of the minutes of
the proceedings of a general meeting of
the citizens of Philadelphia, you will per
ceive, that the citizens are deljrous to ob
tain information, "of the sense of the
people in the different parts of the (late
refpedting the chara&ers proper to be no
minated as Reprtfentatives in Congress,
and ele&ors of a President and Vice-Pre
fident of the United States ; and that
they have committed to us, the talk of en
deavouring to coliett the materials, 011
which their judgment and choice, in this
important buiinefs, may be fairly, indepen
dently, antl fatisfa&otiiv exerciied.
We are folicitou , fir,-, to discharge so
honourable and so sacred a truit, with di
ligence and impar'ialitv ; and, relying up
on the affi(lance of every virtuous and can
did freeman, we believe it practicable to
accomp'ifh the object of our app intmenl
without exciting iufpicion, or meriting re
proach.
1 he purpose of our appointment,indeed
you will readily observe, is merely minis
terial, with a view to.collect neceffaiy in
formation. We are not delegate to deli
berate upon the fubje£t of the election ;
to admit, or to reject, the names of the
candidates; to declare the sense of the peo
ple ; or to frame a ticketall that we are
..uthorized to do (all that we have under
taken, or mean to .do, on the piefent oc
cation) is to obtain a lift of tiie various
chaiadters, whom the citizens of every
denomination, and in every part of the
llatdeem to be qualified for Representa
tives i:i and electors of a Piefi
dent and Vice-President of the United
States : and to fubmi* this lilt, without
tiie influence of a i'eledtion, or a comment,
to the k-ii'osrate coiifideration, and unbi
aiTed fdffragea of the people.
It is proper, however, at the fame time,
fn <i H jdut no anonymous communica
tions 'Vi' 1 . Le hot-iced.
Pe it us then, fir, to request, that you
will, as expeditioufly as you can, commu
nicate, by a letter addressed to the Hon.
Thomas M'Kean, ]ifq. Chief Jullice of
Pennsylvania, the names of the persons
(par-ticularly of thole in your neighbour
hood) who, according to your own opi
nion, and the opinions of the inhabitant
of the county in which you reside, cugh
to be preferred at the ensuing ele&ion o
thirteen lieprtfentaiiocs in Congress, and
fifteen debtors of a President and Vics-
L'rcfidfit of the United States.
Wc are, Sir,
Your moll obedient humble servants,
Thomas M'Kean,
James Hutchinion,
A. I. Dallas,
John Barclay,
Hilary Baker,
Jaied Ingeifoll.
To ,
of the county of .
Piiilad. Aug. 3, 1793.
Extraß of a letter from Mancheflcr, En
gland, May 16.
" Yc'lerday a molt extraordinary and
! affair hap;: ik-J in this towr.j
Jiid so tru : y laughable that I cannot help
elating it :
" Our friends, Dr. and Mrs. Thomas
"on, arrived here on Saturday from York,
,nd on Monday they were invited to dine
it Mr R. Walker's (with whom they
lave long been in habits of intimacy,) to
.'.ret his brother and a few other friends.
The Doctor having a blue and buff coat
ind waistcoat, and somewhat more than
iftial preparation having been made for hie
-eception, it was quickly whispered in the
neighbourhood that the celebrated Mr.
L'homas Paine was arrived at Mr. Wal
ter's, which caused a considerable hubbub
in the town, and fme of the friends of
our worthy miniltry colledtcd together, &
informed lome of the placid and virtuous
mob, that the notor ous Tom Paine was at
Wrlker's, in St. Mary's, Church-yard, and
that the d d villain had drove his char
iot, in spite of all refiltance, over the fa
cred and consecrated ashes of the dead, as
he was desirous of trampling under foot
the king and constitution of every well
governed State in Europe.
" This business alarmed the neighbour
boo'.!, and the Doctor's carriage was sur
rounded with these raggamuEns, who
threatened to break the vehicle to pieces.
Mrs. T. was dreadfully alarmed, and the
Dcdtor with much firmnefs, alfured them
he was not the person they apprehended;
nor i ad he the smallest knowledge of Mr.
Paine, /jfter some altercatiorr-f He-mob dif
ncrfed, not without much doubting it was
really Mr. Paine who had deceived them
"'1 he Doctor's coachman, an honelt
V( kfhireman, bcipg ignorant of driving
round the church-yard walls, had inadvei
tently drove across it, the gate having been
accidentally left open."
From the S. C. Gazette, printed at Co
lumbia—Camden, July 3', 17921
The anniversary of our independence
was welcomed with the ufu?l demonltrati
ons of joy by our ci izens. The Camden
company of light horse and the militia
of the village r::d its vicinity, assembled
in the momiiig. After having performed
Numb. 82.
their refpe&ive evolutions, thry marcljgd
to the remains of a British fort, where
some pieces of ordnance had been eredied
the American colours were flying, and
fifteen rounds were fired in honour of our
glorious emancipation—striking contrail
to what might have been seen on the fame
I pot twelve years ago ! A well fcrved
dinner was prepared at the state house, at
which a very numerous and refpedtable
company was present,
I he following toasts (each accompanied
with a. t.. *.ige in.- -i tiic ■ ..iti-i' were
drank after dinner :
1. The President of the United States.
2. The ever memorable Fourth of [u
!y 1776.
3. The Foederal constitution.
4. The Governor of the State.
5. The virtuous Whig Ladies of
South-Carolina. Their noble patridtifm,
and generous fortitude, in the cause of
freedom, in the years 1780 aTTd 1781, cx
-ite our admiration, and entitle them to
aur ladling esteem.
6. The memory of General Greene, and
the brave victims to liberty wherever slain
under his banners in this state. M:iy the
recollection of their services be dear to
us!
7. The memory of Colonel Kerfliaw,
he worthy founder and patron of Camdwi.
May we ever find a citizen of equal bene
volence and disinterested public spirit.
8. Agriculture, the best blefTmg of a
people—may it flourifii in our country.—
9. The blt fiiugs of a good government,
society and a social life.
10. The commercial interefls of Ameri
ca.
11. Camden—-May wifdoni difeft, and
virtue always appear in her proceedings—-
12., The French nation. Succcft io it,
reformation—may ail arbitrary govern
ments experience like changes.
13. The rights of man. May thev be
undei flood and refpef.i d.
— ■ ' - ; —~
[From New-York,]
At a general mvjkr of the Militia of Rich
mond county, (Statcn-IJland) on Saturday
the 28th July.
When, after having performed the dif
ferent manoeuvres much to the fatisfaftion
>f ail present, the officers of the county,
10th civil and military, who attended on
hat occasion, adjourned to dinner at the
louse of Mr. Stephen Cubberly, :.t the
Rofeand Crown, when the utmost h »rmo
iy prevailed. After dinner the following
:oalts were given and unariimoufly drank.
1. George Qlinton, governor of the
late of New-York—three cheers.
2. The seven firm and patriotic canvaf
ers—three cheers.
3. The friends of liberty and good order
throughout the state.
4. The Militia of Staten Island.
5. A due subordination to all civil and
military officers throughout the state.
6. May peace and hsrmony ever prevail
among the officers of Richmond county.
7. May the enemies of George Clinton
be convinced of their errors.
8. May the wisdom of the statesman
r.nd the bravery of the soldier be ever unit
ed in the governor of the state—three
cheers.
9. A true Clintonian commandant of
Richmond county.
10. May the friends of Governor Clin
ton be ever ready to support the conllitu
liori and lavys of the state.
11. May the Staten-Iflarid militia be
ready, whenever called upon, to support
order and good government.
12. Pierre Van Cortlandt, lieut. go
vernor of the state ofNew-Yo'ik.
13. May the governors of every state
rule with justice and equity, as George
Clinton has 'done—three cheers.
14. Long li/e and prosperity to Georre
Clinton.
15. 'ihe Governor and all his friend*.[.Thefollowing Address to the Freemen
ef in the General
Advrrtifer of Itxjl Tburflay.J
Fellow-Citizens, The present mo
ment is important, and seems to have in
volved in it, consequences, which, perhaps,
we do not anticipate—You are to decide
whether you will exercise a free and unbi
afled jndgn.f-nt at the ensuing ele&ion for
I'ederal R prefentatives, or whether :
confederation of Leaders lhall determine
your molt momentous concerns, We art
the creatures of habit and therefore oi
precedent, and we ought seriously and de
liberately to examine a principle which the
force of custom may make difficult to a
mend or abohlh. The queltion before you
is, in my opinion, of the fimplcft kind : it
is, whether you will judge for yourselves,
or allow others to judge Jor you ! A con
gregation of men to frame a ticket, sanc
tioned by you, is in fa£t a body ofeledtors,
clothed with your authority. Are you
incapable of judging for yourselves, that
you mud hazard a transfer of your molt
important rights ? Is the eflential rights
of luffrage so laborious to you, that you
wish the Herculean ta/lc transmitted to a
few—lf you confefs yourselves too igno
rant or too indolent to exercise your minds
on this fubje£t what a misfortune that yoi
did not apply a constitutional remedy foi
this evil, at the organization of your go
vernment ! Mighty as is the talk, yoi
would have found many who would, cheer
fully, have saved you the trouble.
Would you be willir.g to transfer ths
right of managing your fortunes to othei
har/ds ? Every citizen has a fee simple in
government, and he is less at liberty tc
transfer or bargain for his fee, than
he i 3 at liberty to trifle with his eftatc
or squander it away to the prejudice
of his children ; for industry may make
amends for the want of patrimony,
but nothing short of a civil con
vulfion can reltore departed rights.—
As long as we have laws we-(hall have a
tribunal to resort to against injultice ; but
where is the tribunal that Jhall rellorc
your 101 l privileges ?
Be not deceived by the cry of Antife
deralifm ; it is a hackneyed found calculat
ed to delude and alarm you—Men and not
measures are the object, and to make fo/ne
men members of Congress, who proba
bly, without some deep address would ne
ver be approved by the people, you are
courted by the flattering names of Far
mers, traders, manufacturers, and mecha
nics.—Why this discrimination ? are thefc
different degrees of citizenlhip I The ti
tle of Citizen applies to every free man,
it is his birthright, and let his avocation in
life be whatever it may,he ought to afftrt hiJ
right, and glory in the character of Citizen—
Men who are thus fond of difcriminationj
are equally fond of debating the charac
ters, which they wish to use as ladders to
ascend to political eminence.—lf we have
any thing to dread, it is the efforts of such
men o hurry us on to the molt deteltable
of all tyrannies, the tyranny of ariltocra
cy.
The Level is thought too great in this
country—it is harsh and unpleasant tc
some of our fancied great men to be saluted
by the fame title, that every vulgar erta
ture is conltitutionally enti;led to —What,
shall the mechanic, lhall the labourer, have
equal weight in tj>e political scale with
a man who is-worth a thousand or more
pounds a year ! This is the rub—and to
obviate this, you are to delegate the right
and the povrer of judging for yourselves
to those who are more capable and more
deserving !
We want no Ticket Mongers : let every
citizen exercise his own judgment, and we
fliall have a good representation in
trigue, favoritifm, cabal and party will
then be at reft. A free and unbiafled
choice will do more credit to Pennsylvania,
will give her more consequence in the
union, and will throw a greater {hare oi
real abilities and worth into her scale,
than all the contrivances of a conference,
SIDNEY.
LONDON.
Extraflsfrm foreign papers, from May 26, tc
June q.
NOTE,
Prefentedby Count deKcller, the Prussian
minilter, to their high mightinefles the
States General, dated April 24, 1792.
The ties of confidence and friendftiip,
projected for some years, as well at Ber
lin as Vienna, have been formally cemen
ted by a dtfwcliye treaty of alliance, •
Ed at Berlin, on the 27th of February,
and ratified a short time before the de
cease of the Emperor.
The King of Prussia, desirous not to
retard the commun cation of this treaty to
your high mightinesses, has authorised the
undersigned, his Envoy Extraordinary,
and minifler Plenipotentiary, to deliver to
you a copy of the said treaty, which he
has this day the honour to present to you.
The stipulations it contains having for
their aim the general tranquility of Eu
rope, as well as the repose and happiness
of individuals, his majelty believes tnetn to
be perfectly applicable, without the final
led inconvenience, to the position and in
tcrelts of the United Provinces.
The King of Hungary and Bohemia,
on his part difpoling himfelf, high and
mighty lords, to invite you to concur in
chis alliance and to propose to you defen
five engagements similar to those of the
aforenamed treaty, the frisndfhip and inti
mute relations which already unite the
court of Prussia with the republic, engage
his Pruffiati majesty to advise your high
mightinesses of the overtures his apolto
lic majelty is about to make to you —
The king cannot, at the fame time, for
bear the testimony of the fatisfa£tion he
feels, on observing the republic adopt the
fame principles which have determined his
Majelty's alliance with the house of All
stria. Wifhi'lg that your H;gh Might
inefTes may fee, in the fame point of view,
the utility and advantages which will re
sult from the alliances, the king will felici
tate hirafelr on the power of contributing,
as far as may be depended on his majesty,
to the success of a negotiation, wh.ch
cannot fail to conduce to the good of the
Repub:i., and the fatisfaCtion of all the
powers inte.efted.
HAGUE, LE COMTE DE KELLER.
April 27. 1792.
Brujfels June 5. Onthe2dinft. aDe
claration was publilhed here, in the name
of the king of Hungary, permiiting all
French vcffels not loaded with warlike
flores, to enter freely the port of Oltend-
This permiflion is to continue so long as
the French nation fliall fuffer the velTels
belonging to the king to carry on their
commerce unmolested.
Franlfort, May 25. It is repoited that
the Prulfian army, on iti marchryfris re
ceived orders to halt, on account of n ws
being teceived that 60,000 Ruflians have
entered Poland.
London, May 26. Yesterday presented
an extraordinary and an awfnl lcene upon
the ltock-exchange. The fpeculation.s cf
the minilter, which have loft three millions
and an annuity of 170,000£. to the pub
lic, have been fatal also to his followers.
The brokers, jobbers and dealers in
the funds, who had confidence in the
irrational speculations of the minister, and
who thinking it impoflible that a person
yvith his means of forming a found judg.
ment could have foregone the opportunity
of saving so large a futn for the nation,
without solid hopes of a substantial rife,
ifted on this flattering hope, which in
volved them to their utter ruin. No few
er than eight persons of extensive specula
tions have fallen vidtims to their confi
dence, and the sum of which the flock
exchange is plundered by their failure is
near two hundred thousand pounds.
In the beginning of the day a letter
was received from a refpedtable house,
intimating that this misfortune, which
they had brought upon themselves by trust
ing to the falfe hope 3 thus held out, could
not be retrieved—That they gave up to
their creditors all that they poffelfed, and
that before this letter could reach the ex
change, one of the Partners would is no
more. We forbear, from compassion to
the unhappy relatives, to mention the
name.
We trust that this scene will adt as an
admonition both to ministers and fpecu
idtois—to the one how they hold forth
uncertain hopes, and to the other how they
believe them, [And yet we fear the leJJ'on will
he ufclefs.J There ij a blind and ttupid
pronenefs to believe in the market, upon
which the minister may work at his wil!
Stunned by this blow, they require only
two days to recover their breath, and they
will stand up again to any bull that may
be let loose upon them.
Breflaw, May 10. The anniversary of
the Polish revolution was celebrated on
the 3d. at Warsaw, not only with all the
unanimity and patriotifin with which (he
new constitution was founded. The joy
was the greater upon this occasion, from
the profpeft of the Cou,t of Vienna and
Berlin having agreed-to reAintain the iu-
dependence of Poland, and the free form
of government they have given themselves.
It is expefrted that the ministerial notifica
tion of these engagements will be shortly
made to the different powers. It is
thought that a messenger, who arrived on
the 18th at Berlin from Vienna, brought
dispatches relative to that resolution as the
next day Prince Reufs, Ambassador from
the king of Hungary, sent a courier to
Rufita ; and the Court sent one to Lon
don, and another to PcterAurg.
PHILADELPHIA.
August zr, 1792.
The great, leading, master error in the
conduct of the National Government (fays
a correspondent) has been the ill-judged ami
unjust idea of making the government flat
tering and lucrative to aparticular interest,
without regard to general considerations of
equal and found policy. It seems to have
been the underftunding of our rulers, that
government could not fafely lean on the
broad support of the people at large, and
that the state governments were foreign
authorities, notfellow-fervants of the fame
people, and consequently that the state go
vernments were to be plucked of their a
gency and influence in all cases possible, and
that a particular sett of men were to be
buoyed up by such means as would bind
them by the flrong link of interest
ed motives to an implicit and affive devo
tednefs to the government.— The favorite
interest made choice of for this mis-judged
narrow project, was a monied interest,
which, as an army of influence in the ser
vice and pay of the government, might beat
down all obstacles arising out of popular 111-
terefts and opinions, and thereby open the
way for the government to whatever objetl
it might drive at. This view of the caie is
a fort of key to the whole hillory and scheme
of the federal leg: fiction. It opens the secret:
of the funding fyttem, which did not move
on the fohd bottom of public faith or en
larged justice ; but was trimmed and mo
dified to suit the particular cafe of the greal
jobbers in certificates. Hence, the scheme
of the bank so modified as to put millions,
fay four, five, or fix, into the pockets of the
paper or monied men, beyond any plea 01
pretext of legal claim or equitable preten
iion. So also, the consolidation of all debts
the government could lay its hands upon
and the making the fame irredeemable ant
perpetual as far as coukx be done : So again
the laying out the people's money, paid oui
of their laborious earnings, so as not tc
lighten their burdens the mort possible, bul
in luch manner as to benefit that particuiai
favorite monied interelt which the govern
ment had eillifted into its support. —In fur
therance of the fame erroneous and falls
system, every 'meal'ure almost has tendec
to huddle up the great mass of public papei
into as few hands as might be, according ti
the observation of a deep and famous poli
tician, that a large film of money in a few
hands or one hand, gives far more weigh!
and influence than the fame sum difperl'eci
among many, where they could not so eafilj
run parallel 10 one another by reason oftheii
number, and many of them havingother in
terests to check their monied fee.ings, ami
warp them off from the course of the mail
body. If the whole annual revenue of three 01
four millions were to get into three or four,
or even thirty or forty hands, what couh
stand againftfuchan influence ; and the rule
of proportion holds on any other scale oi
luppolition. What the final ultimate objefl
in all the wrong mealures pursued, may
have been, time will, no doubt, belt unravel.
— But one thing has struck the notice ol
d.finterefted obfervcrs, namely, that the
monied interest is universally thought to be,
as a body, (whatever exceptions there may
be) the leal!: republican in their sentiments,
manners and opinions, of any interest among
'.is; and that the men most known to favour
hereditary government, are the men whe
most caress the monied interest as the pillar
and ftatr of power; so that there lias been
a kind of alliance and fellow-feeling be
tween them in mofl public measures, and,
doubtless, for ends approved by both. All
this, however, is totally wrong: for out
government being built up by the people,
and for the people, and being deemeci an
equal republican government, its adminis
tration ought to be of fame character;
the features of the offspring ought to carry
the likeness of the parent, 01- it mult be
Ifigmatized as a bastard policy by all sincere,
honest republicans.
On Saturday next, in pursuance of a pre
vious resolve palled at a refpe£fable meet
ing of the inhabitants of Montgomery
county, in the state of Pennsylvania, meet
ings are to be held at the several townships
in that county, in order to choose two per
sons from each township for the purpole of
appointing a committee of four persons to
meet delegates from the several counties of
this state at Lancalter, on the 20th of Sep
tember, to fix upon proper persons to re
present this state in Congress, for the en
tiling two years, and also upon fit persons
for eleflors of a President and Yice-Pre
lidcut of the United States,
Then} appear several intimations in fo
reign papers that the combination against
France will be conliderably weakened by a
great part of the strength of the Pruflian ar
my being diverted towards Poland, to
:ounter-a£l the pretentions of the Empreft
of Russia to re-eftablilh- the old form of
government in that country. 11 seems cer
tain however, that part of the Pruflian ar
my has marched, with that of Aurtria,
igainft France. " They will amount to
gether, to near 140,000 men, who are to
move in five di virions. From the length of j
their march it was deemed impofiible for
them to begin the campaign effe&ually till
towards the end of July."—The fame pa
pers mention the Priiffian and Ruffian Am
jafl'adors at Paris being on tile eve of their
departure.
The military policy of General Fayette
eems in every refpeft to be copied from the
:ondu£l of the American FaBIUS at the
beginning of the war with Great-Britain.
By skirmishes with the enemy on the fron
tiers he will teach his soldiers the absolute
lecefiity of discipline, and will give them
:he habitude of war, without venturing a de
rive a£tion with troops, who have been
aught from their infancy to look upon
as mere machines, ncd are a»
absolutely such, in the military line, as the
cannon and mortars that attend them.
Iu England there appears to be a con . ;
oetween the court party and the peofcle,
whether a reform in their government, lhall
or shall not take place. The immerjfe in
iluenceof the crown, tho' unable so far to
Mind the people as to make a union with
the continental powers against France a
popular measure, yet it is feared, can so far
operate upon certain springs as in a great
degree to defeat the purposes of the reform
ing societies throughout the kingdom.
Emigration from the Netherlands, &c. &c.
At 110 period since the firit discovery of
America, has the spirit of emigration been
so general, as it is at prefent—lnftead of
servants by indenture, sent out from Great-
Britain, Ireland and Germany, we find se
veral respectable families from all these
countries coming daily into our ports, with
an intention ot establishing factories, and
little colonies in our frontier towns and
back settlements,
A veflel that arrived at one of our northern
ports, a few days ago, brought near 500,
and another 750 paflengers, many of whom
were of the class abqve mentioned. These
people have given it as their opinion, than
no less than ten thousand would emigrate
this fall from one port in Ireland, if an op
portunity fhonld offer on board American
reffels, which in general are preferred to
those of tl.eir own country, It is also con
fidently aflerted by late information receiv
ed in different parts of the continent, that
upwards of four thoufaild mechanics, mer
chants, gentlemen, and noblee, from the
Pais bas or Netherlands, and who, with
refpeel to the present contest there, meant
to be altogether neuter, and wifiiingon that
account, though in vain, to fleer clear of
the itorms, chey for some time pall saw
gathering in their political horizon, came
to a refoiution of quitting their native
country forever—and to seek that peace
and happiness, in a foreign clime, whicl s
hath been denied, both to them and their
ancestors, tor above three hundred years—
the Low Countries, as they are called,
having been always made the theatre of
war upon the continent of Europe. Some
time ago, 200 of these people, who had in
verted part 01 their money in the Dutch
funds, met with coniiderable oppolition
from different parties who fufpefted their
intention : but, under pretence of their be
ing laitious [>{■: ions, who wished to join
.oae of the belligerent powers, inimicable
.0 their interefl, prevailed on the directors
of tne bank to impede their design as much
as poiuble. x hole who had money in the
Englifli funds were snore fuccefsful, for al
ii o ugh it is well known that they proposed
:oming to America and fettling here, no
tumbling b!oc;c was thrown in their way ;
and they are now ready to by the
irft veflels that fail either from Holland or
EnjlauJ to t uuniter of 400 c* upon a jap
■it c calculation —with cash and other
valuable efftfts, ertioiated at iix hundred
thousand pounds of this currency. —Their
Ports of detlination between Philadelphia
md Alexandria, and the Federal City, or
lime of it:, neighbouring towns, supposed
:o be their object for a permanent refl
ience.
Extract of a Literfrom a Prelbyterian Minister
in England, to his friend in Philadelphia, dated
May 8, 1792.
I have often and long talked of going so
America. 1 have been thinking much of it
of late, there being many things on this fide
of the water to alienate my affections from
my native country. Had I no family I (hould
not think of moving ; but lam thoroughly
persuaded America is a country greatly pre
ferable for a numerous family like mine.
The load of our public taxes is enormous,
and provilions of all ii.rtsfo very dear, that '
young people find it very difficult to fetth:
in life and support a family,—which is one
of the greatelt evils that can happen a soci
ety.
Many of us are on the tip-toe to go,—.
particularly people in the farming line. It
is almolt inipoihble to obtain a farm that isworth having. lam confident if some per
sons of reputation were to go over and ob
tain a comfortable settlement, numbers
would soon follow. If a farm is likely to be
vacant here, numbers are eagerly catching
at it. Indeed we are very much in one
another's way: There are more people of
every trade, in almost every town in the
kingdom, than can get business to lupport
them. _ •
The Birmingham riots have raised such a
spirit ofbigotry againil: Difienters, that we
can hardly be said to be fafe. Our repre
sentation in parliament is so very partial,
the system of government so corrupt, the
reigning family so extravagant, public an<l
parochial taxes such a grievous burden,
that I expe£t, in the course of a few years,
especially if trade Ihould fail, or we (hould
have another war, considering how high
party spirit runs, we shall be altogether by
the ears.
Your early marriages in America, shew
that a livelihood is not difficult to be ob
tained. Here, thinking young men are of
, ten afraid to marry,—and very well they
may : The expence ofhoufekeeping is be
come enormous, and thoulands of the la
bouring poor canuot get food and raitnesit,
though ever ever so sober and frugal.
' Your countryman Thomas Pa'ne, and a
Mr. Barlow, are printing political pam
phlets, which are well adapted to diffufe a
knowledge of the rights of man, and indi
viduals are enlightened by them ; but the
nation in general ara so fond t>f their estab
lished church, and their old government,
that no alteration is likely to take place at
present, aod whenever it does, it will proba
bly be as it was in America, by a civil war."
i
On Sunday evening arrived at New
s York, the (loop Sarah and Lucretia, capt.
M'Call, from Barbadoes, after a pafl'age of
i6days; he informs that he met a capt.
Welsh at Barbadoes, (who brought a cargo
of tea from China 1 who told him that on
his pafl'age he spoke with a (hip belonging
to the Baft-India Company, in the Bay of
Bengal, the captain of which informed him,
(capt. Welsh) that Tippoo Saib had ceded
one half his territoriesto Lord Cornwallis,
and three millions of money fterljng ; one
million to the Company, one million to
Lord Cornwallis, and the officers under his
command, and the other million to the af
filfingpowers. Capt. M'Call fays he also
read the fame in the Barbadoes papers be
fore he failed ; and that Tippoo had left 2
of hisfons holtagesfor the due performance
of his agreement.
The brig Bailli de Suffrein, which was
taken up at sea some time ago, with only a
woman on board, and brought into Nor
folk, Virginia, has had her cafe tried in the
Virginia court of admiralty. The brig
and cargo were valued at three thousand
pounds, one third of which was adjudged
to the captain and crew that picked her up.
Two brigantines are on their way from
Old Spain to South-America ; their object
is said to be a complete survey of the whole
extensive coast of South-America, more
particularly those parts subjeCt to theju
rifdiCtion of Spain.
The striCt enforcement of the decree of the
National Aflembly,confirming the Mulattoes
of theiflands in their privileges, seems to be
the only practicable method of reltoring
peace & good order to those islands. By the
latest information the adoption and en
forcing of the decree in Hifpaniola has near
ly destroyed the confederacy between the
mulattoesSt the insurgent negroes.ln Mar
tinicoit has produced the happiest etfefts,
and as footi as it arrived the free men of co
lour gave themselves up to the Colonial
Aflembly, and swore to remain inviolably
attached.
Heads of Intelligencefrom foreign Papers.
Notwithstanding the supposed neutrality
of the Prince of HcfTe Caflel, he has joined
the confederacy against France, and ha?
marched his army towards the Rhine.—
The finall army of French emigrants was
still at Coblence the latter end of May, to
gether with the Noblesse, who had recently
aflembled in that city to appoint Monjieui
regent of France, in the place of Louis the
lixteenth, ifiue amanifeffo, and then begin
the attack upon France, to be supported by
the combined armies.—Every late account
front Europe represents the French emi
grants as in the highest spirits, and making
110 doubt but they would return to their
hemes and pofleflions the ensuing autumn. —
Sever?! hints are given that a defenfive
warfare would be adopted by the National
Aflembly : this, however, does not seem
rfko comport with their declaration of war,
V which would imply offenfive operations :
the emigrants do not, it is said, scruple to
aflert openly that the declaration of war
•was carried by their secret friends in the
aflembly.—The American funds had fluctu
ated in a very uncommon degree in Lon
don, within the last 6 months.' Those who
speculated in them in the firft instance had
made immenfe> sums, and so high was the
public opinion in their favour, that the 6
per cents were run up to 150 ; this ficti
tious value, however, did not last long, and
the sudden fall is said to have been one
cause of the failures in New-York : On
the 7th of June they were down at twelve
fhilliags, producing an interest of five per
tent,—Letters from Valenciennes to per
oris in Paris had confirmed the news of
General Rochambeau's resignation : that
Marshal Luckner's plan of otfenfive war
had been renounced by the other Generals,
and that of Rothambeau (the defenlive)
adopted. —Other accounts fay that " Ge
nerals Rochambeau, Luckner, and Fayette
were to determine on the 19th of May, the
plan of the campaign, and whether the
war for the present season should be ovFen
five or defenlive. As their decision was
to be kept a profound secret, it is not likely
that the real plan could yet have been
known when the last accounts left France.
—Although the court of Spain does not en
tirely abandon the French eniigrants, hav
ing granted peniions and a maintenance to
several of them, yet it does not appear that
that court is at all friendly to their hopes
of a counter-revolution; "We shall not
(fay the Spaniards) be drawn to enter into
the league formed against France, even in
a pecuniary sense." —The Heflian troops
which form a cordon towards the Rhine,
are fifteen thousand in number ; they are
upon a war establishment. It is scarce
ly any longer doubted, but that this army
will join the Prufiian and Austrian for
ces. The Landgrave of HelTe hopes, no
doubt, by this mark of compliance to
fil l the ninth electorate now vacant.»
Tranquility being perfectly restored atPa
ris, the Assembly declared itfelf (on the
31 ft, of May) no longer permanent. —Oil
the 3d. of May the Swedifn criminals, the
supposed associates of Ankerftrom in the
afiaflination of the king of Sweden, sent in
their defence : the fentences'hau not been
all publilhed ; but John d'Engleftrom, thai
royal Secretary, and Nordel, the territorial
judge, were condemned to live on bread
and water four days, to lose their places,
and the firft to be degraded from tiie
rank of nobility.—A letter from Paris to a
correspondent in London, dated May 21,
fays, "it is all over, with the national As
sembly : the emigrants, 20,c00 strong, all
officers and gentlemen, with the Pruflians
Auftrians, and Sardinians, who will, on the
20th of next month, compose a junction of
180,000, (in all 200,000) having nothing
but the lightefl artillery, will inarch dire£t
ly to Paris, palling by every other place.
T\v° whole regiments of cavalry have jutl
defcrted from the French army.—M. D'
Aranda, the new Spanidi minister, finds a
very a£tive party uling their efforts to re
move him. His pacific fyftero, with ref
peft to France, they insinuate, is a proof
that he approves of the new constitution,
which humbled the clergy and discarded!
the monks ; and a strong prefumpLion that
he withes to do the fame in Spain.—The
people of the Netherlands are no doubt
ripe for a revolt from the Austrian domi
nation, but if a defenlive system is finally
adopted by France, they will not dare to
attempt any thing, as their country will
be the feat of the Austrian armies, as well
asthofeofthe allied powers —at Exeter,
in England, 011 June the 4th(the King'sbirth
day)'-much liquor was given away to the
people in that part of the city called the
Island. In the evening a bon fire was kin
dled there, and Paine's Rights of Man, a
work of Dr. Priestley's and Kenrick's ser
mon on the uh of November, were with
great solemnity committed to the flames,
amidst the acclamations of several hundred
spectators. The two former gentlemen
were afterwards burnt in effigy. The
ceremony of conflagration was preceded
by reading the firft words of his Majesty's
Proclamation, "Whereas many seditious
writings have been publilhed of late, &c."
ExtraCl of a Utter to a gentleman in this city, dated
Columbia, Kentucky, June 19.
" The Indians from time to time steal
ourhorfes—l am clearly of opinion that
since the firft settlement they have stolen
horses to the amount of upwards of 30001.
that is from Columbia alone and its vici
nity.
" They now and then kill some of our
citizens and scalp them, or carry them into
a horrid captivity. The latter end of April
they killed within three miles of Columbia
a Mr. James Nevil, a lieut. in our militia—
a young man of great worth ; they nearly
lkinned his head all over in taking off his
scalp. The loss of this valuable member of
society was greatly regretted, and was a
very severe blow to his alHiited mother,
who had but a few months before followed
her hulband to the grave ; and was left
with several small children, leaning and
depending in a great measure on this her
dear son. He was brought in and buried
with great decency. The Rev. John Smith
preached a funeral sermon 011 the occasion.
A Mr. Ball was killed or taken prisoner at
the fame time ; he has not lince been heard
of. A Mr. Qrcut who was in company
received two wounds, but got in and is
nearly recovered. About the firft of May
some men were killed at Dunlap's station—
and within a few weeks two men were
killed on the road between Cincinnati
and Lexington. Three anibafiadors are
sent to the different Indian nationf,to nego
ciate a peace,—a Mr. Gerard, an inhabitant
of Columbia to the Shawanefe —Major Tru
man to the Delawares—and Col. Hardin to
the Wiandots (as I am informed.) We
have as yet no news from them, and grow
uneasy 011 their account.
" The Indians who are prisoners at Fort-
Waihington, behave as I am told with great
fortitude and propriety ; and are industri
ous in their way, when they can get any
thing to do, and seem anxious to •procure
wampum- The Indian Queen is well—a
week or two ago Major Trueman afkedher
acceptance of a guinea, which she feenied
not to know the value of; but being in
formed it would procure her so much wam
pum, she accepted it with becoming grati
tude ; lince which, their greatest artists
have busily been employed in making
a belt of the moll brilliant kind ; after they
had finifiled this, they took a Dotfor
Brown who is in the medical department,
a man of great humanity and goodn'efs of
lieart, who on all occasions had sympathized
with them in their captivity ; and with all
the ceremonies of Royalty crowned him
King of their nation : after the coronation
the Queen approached and paid him all that
homage due to his Majesty, her rightful So
vereign ; after which all the reit in due
order approached and paid their obeisance.
They had procured for him all the kingly
robes in their power, and drelfed him in
the grand belt of wampum they had made."
A Virginia paper; among other western
intelligence, has the following paragraph.
"Capt. Butler (brother to the unfortunate
General of that name) has returned to
Cumberland from Detroit ; he was allu
red by the Britiih commander at the post,
that the report lately circulating of the ge
neral being still living and api ifoner with
the Indians, was not only without founda
tion, but related to him the following me
lancholy particulars of his death :—Soon
after the retreat of our army, on the 4th
of November last, from the bloody plains
of Miami, the well noted and as infamous
Simon Girthie, came up to the general, who
was then fitting : he knew him and spoke
co him ; the general Suffering under the
molt excruciating pain from his wounds,
delired Girthie to put an end to his misery ;
but he declining to give the fatal stroke,
turned and whispered to an Indian (landing
by, that the person he had jtift been speak
ing to, was the commander of the defeat
ed army ; upon which the Indian immedi
ately funk his toma-hawk into his head, and
he expired. A number of Indians then
Surrounded and scalped him ; but what is
moll lhocking to relate, they opened his
body, took out his heart, cut it in as many
pieces as there were tribes in the action, and
divided it among them. —thus died the
Brave General BUTLER."
The fame paper further informs " that
1500 Indians were lately in council at the
Maumee towns —that they were determin
ed on war—that two commiilioner», Meflrs.
Brufliand Freeman, who went with a flag
to endeavour to treat with them on term
t>f peace, had been murdered by them —and
that another flag which went to a distant
quarter, not having been-heard of, it was
(uppofed met aSimilar fate.''
" When we fee in particular ptiperi, an in
discriminate attempt to jtiftify every mea
sure pursued by individuals, whether Jnuggled
or otherwise, into the federal government,
it is not difficult to know the reason why
the term " flaurtch republican" is disgust
ing to the Editors offuch papers. —For, the
"Jlaunch republicanneither courting the
smiles, nor fearing the frowns of men it,
bower, is too apt to find fault that our re
venue is wafted in extravagant salaries, as
well as pensioners living on the earnings ol
the people : he is for breaking up that
/lough of the revenue, the war department:
and is for difmifiing men from their em
ployment. when lie finds that instead ol
promoting the public interest, they are in
volving the country in blood, for their own
private emolument.—" Indep.Chron.j
At a meeting of the inhabitants in Dut
chefs county, New-York, on the4thinll.
the following Resolves, among several
others, were unanimously pafied :
" Resolved, That in the opinion of this
meeting, George Clinton, ESq. is, by the
conllitution and lawsof this state, Gover
nor thereof; and that Pierre Van Cort
laudt, Esq. is by the fame authority Lieute
nant-Governor of the fame ; and that it is
the indilpenlible duty of every citizen
peaceably to acquieSce in their administra
tion, during the time for which they have
been eleited.
" Resolved, Thattocalla convention at
this time, under the pretente of altering
what may be thought defective in the con
flitution, or ofredrefling supposed grievan
ces, will, in the opinion of this meeting, in
the prefentftate of men's minds, be danger
ous to the happiness and welfare of all or
ders of men in the state, and we greatly
iear, ruinous to the republican principles of
the government.
And whereas, AlTociations are forming
in various parts of this state, whole avow
ed objefl is no way attainable, but by a re
volution in the government. Therefore,
" Resolved, That in the opinion of this
meeting, it is the great duty of every citi
zen, and more especially the magistrates
who are more particularly interested with
the public peace, to discountenance such
dangerous associations."
It was also resolved, " That a meet
ing be called 011 the 27th of Augult, to
take into consideration, the present state of
pubi c affairs, and that it b;; recommended
to the inhabitants of the several towns, as
it may be inconvenient for tneni so afferftl
generally, to appoint a committee far this
purpose."
" A number of those (fays a New- Yorfe
paper) who before were called strong Ftilc
rahjls, are now the supporters of Governor
Clinton. They have long beheld, with ad
miration, the chara&er and conduit of &
man whose patriotism and justice has been
so conspicuous in all his actions. The fn
perfeding him,as has been attempted,- woulit
have been a great injury to the United
States, in depriving the judicial bench of a
great luminary of the law. A certain par
ty, however, did not mean that Mr. J ——
lhould long remain governor of New-York*
had he fucceeded —A young man, who has
the merit of being the richjl inhabitant of
the United States, would have probably
tilled the office on Mr. J s advancement
to a higherJiation."
An error is difcoverect by the Marine
Surveyor of the Admiralty, in the latitude
of the islands of Scilly. The true latitude
of the light house on St. Agnes is found to
be 49 deg. 53 min. 47 fee. north, and that
ofPednath'ius Head, 49 deg. ja. min. 3 fee.
north,
[The following is from an English paper %
a satirical Squib at the Minilters, 3cc.
for their easy credulity relative to the!
capture of Seringapatam, Tippoo's capi
tal.]
I CANNOT e'xprefs how delighted I am,
To hear we have taken Seringapatam.
0 *
The Chancellor look'd like a frolick
fome Ram,
To hear we had taken Seringapatam:
DuNDAsfled from bottle, from chicken,
and ham,
To Windsor to tell of Seringapatam.
W1 ll Pitt ate a cake with some rajberryjam,
When told we had taken Seringapatam.
The wise India House wrote a letter to'
cram |
The news down our throats of Seringapa
tam.
The Prince gave a nod to his porter, BrG>
Sam,
" Ydu hear we have taken Seringapatam.'*
We are happy to find in this viSlory Jham,
Not an Englilhman fell at Seringapatam,
The Vestal it seems had arriv'd in thrf
C AM,
With news of the taking Seringapatam.
The mighty Tippoo, from a battering-ram,
Got a fliot in the thigh at Seringapatam.
John Bull to his consort said, 1 ' Hark ye, deaf
Ma'am,
Cornwallis has taken Seringapatam !"
Pagodas and cannon, beef, mutton, & lamb,
Were found in the streets of Seringapatam,
Lord Cornwallis beflow'd oneachloldier
a dram,
For his gallant attack of Seringapatam.
Great George look'd as sapient as olet
Abraham,
When he heard we had taken Seringapatani.
The Stocks were fore'd up five per cent, by
theJlam,
Of our troops having taken Seringapatam.
Now the people of England molt heartily
damn,
The Wonderful News from Seringapatam.
PRICE of STOCKS.
S Per cents - - 22 r
3 Per cents - - 12 /g."
Deferred - l 3f'-
Shares Bank of United States, "ja
do. North-America, 30
do. New-York, 25
do. Maryland, 10
do. MaflachufettS, 20
do. Rhode-Illand, 9
Sulquehannah and Schuylkill canal, 100
Delaware and Schuylkill canal, I +
Lancaster and Philadelphia turnpike, 40
INFORMATION.
"pHE Administration of the French colo
lJ ny ot St. Domingo, continuing to draw
nils upon me, though advised more than
two months ago to suspend drawing ; I a „i
nnder the necefiity, in order to avoid ex
poling the credit of France, of informing the
public, that from the date of this advertil'e
ment, I will not accept nor pay any of tliofe
bills beyond No. 138, of the 17th of July.
In cafe the government of/ranee fhoultl
make prorifion and give orders for the pay
ment of the bills of the Paid Administration
I shall make it known immediately.
The Conful-Ceneral of France,
slntohit R. C. M. De La Forrjf.
N. B. It is expected that the editors of
the newspapers will give circulation thro*
the United States to an advertifemeHt fa
particularly interefting'to trade.A CURIOUS DIALOGUE.
\OccaJioned by Emblematic Devices on a certain
Travelling-Coach.]
ONE Sabbath-day-morning,faid Samuel to Sue,
" I've thought—and I've thought—that a
Title would do-
Believe me, my dear it is Tweeter than syrup
To taste of a Title, as cook'd up in Europe-—
" Your ladyftiip" here, and (( your ladyship,"
there,
Sir knight," and " your grace," and ts your
lordfliip, the Mayor"—
f{ But here we are nothing but vulgar all over
And the wife of a cobler scarce thinks you a
bove her :
What a country is this
Where madam and miss
Is the highest faJute by each low-minded cur
And I—even I—am but Mijier and Sir !
<c Your eq-n!-right-gentry, I rte'er could abide—
That all are born equal, by me is denied,
And Bartow and Paine
Shall preaeh it in vain :
Look even at brutes, and you'll fee it confeft
That some are intended to manage the reft—
Yon' dbg of the manger, how stately he- struts.
You may knew he is great by the loom of his
' i uts >
N -i ? tier-born whelp ever fnapp'd at his foes.
Ail he wants, is a t Jafs co ba iluck on his nose,
And then, my dear Sue
Betwixt 16 me and you"
He would look like the gc'mnv»n, whose name 1
forget,
Who livci in a cattle, and never pays debt."
a My dear [anfwer'd Susan] 'ess find, in reproach,
That you climb like a bear, when'you get in a
coach;
Nov;, - our nobles that fprurtg from the nobles o.
old,
Your 1. nights, an J your earls, and your barons I o
bold '
FrOm nature inherit <o handf'me.an air
They arc noblemen born, at fir It glaTice we m?y
fwsar» —
Bjyou that have cobbled, and f that have spun ;
' i'is wiong for our noddles on titles to run :
Moreover, you know
That to make a fine show
Your people of note
Of arms get a coat—
A boot, or a flioe,
Wou'd but fneakingly do,
A would certainly prove our nobility new."
" No matter —(said Samuel) a coach fliall be
bought—
Tho 1 puppies may chatter, I care not a groat—
Around it a score or devices (hail ihine
And mottoes, and emblems—to prove it is mine :
Tair Liberty's cap
And a liar and a ftrap #
A da<r?er that somewhat rrftmbles an aivl,
A p-... ' • "'d goddess, turn'd out frcm a ftallj
All these fliall be there-
How people will Ware !
And Envy herfeif, that our Title would blast,
Shali smile at the motto—The first shall
be LAST." *
* Primus qui fait t nunc ultimus, Aug. 3.
-jHgfiTT"" y 'iTrP
LONDON, May 25.
Society for Constitutional Informa
tion .
May 18, 1792.
At a meeting held this day, the following letter
was received, addrefled to the Chairman of this
Society :
" SIR, London, May io, 1792:
" The honourable patronage which the society
for constitutional information has repeatedly giv
en to the works entitled Rights of Man, renders
it incumbent on me, to communicate to them
whatever relates to the progress of those works.
" A nnmber of letters from various
parts of the country have come to me, exprefling
an earn eft desire, that'the firft and lecond pare of
The Rights of Man could be rendered more gen
erally ufeful, oy printing them in a cheaper man
rer than they have hitherto been; as those requests
were f: m persons to whom the purchase at the
prefrnt price was inconvenient, I took th« pro
per mean* for complying with l he»r tequeft.
I am since informed,, that the ministry in
tends bringing a prosecution ; and as a nation
" (as well the poor as the rich) has a right to know
11.it any -vorkvare, tkat are made the fubjeft of
a prosecution ; the getting out a cheap Jtdkion is,
3 conceive, rendered more neceflary than 'before,
as a mein3 towards supporting that right ; and 1
have the pleasure of informing, the society, that I
am proceeding with the work.
I am, Sir,
with great refpeft,
(t Your obedient humble servant,
" THOMAS PAINE."
The society took into conficeration the con
tents of the aforefaid letter, and came to the fol
lowing resolutions :
Rcfolved, That the thanks of this society be
given to Mr. Thomas Paine, for the communi
cation he has made, and for the patriotic disin
terestedness manifefted therein.
Refolvcd, That this society will contribute its
utmost aid towards supporting the rights of the
nation, and the freedom of the press, and him
who has so efientially and fucctfsfully contribut
ed to both.
Resolved, That the right of investigating prin
ciples and l>ftems of government is one of those
rights j and that the works of any which
c; nnot be refuted by rea(->n, cannot, on the prin
ciples oi" god.government, or of common sense,
be made the subject of prosecution.
Resolved, That the excefiive taxes which this
country pays, being now fevents;en mil/ions an-,
nuallv, an additional motive tor the exerciie
of this right ; and render it at the fame time a
more immediate duty the nation owes to itfelf, to
enter unon and piomote all such investigations.
Resolved, That a committee be appointed to
enquire into the rumour of the above-mentioned
profecuticvn ; and to report thereon to the society
at its next meeting.
Resolved, That a copy of Mr. Paine's letter,
together with these resolutions, be tranlmitted to
all the affocifetcd societies in town and country,
and that this society do congratulate them on the
firm as well as orderly ipTrit and tranquil perfevei
ance manifefted in ali their proceedings $ and ex
hort them to a steady continuance therein.
The following fentimentj appear in, the Addrefi of
the above Socitty to the jacobins [or friend i of
the Conftituti-on at Paris j
44 YOURS is not among the least of the revo
lutions which time is unfolding to an aftoniflied
world, that two nations, nursed by lome wretch
ed craft in reciprocal hatred, Ihould so luddenly
break their common odious chain, and ruih into
amity. The principle that can produce i'uch an
eft'elt, is the ofispring of no earthly court j aud
whilst it exhibits to us the expensive iniquity of
former politics, it enables us, with bold felicity,
to fay—We have done with them.
" In contemplating the political condition of
nations, wc cannot conceive a more diabolical fy.f
tem of government, than that which has hitherto
been generally pra&ifed over the world . To feed
che avarice, and gratify the wickedness of ambi
tion, the fraternity of the human race has been
deftroyea ; as if the several nations had been cre
ated oy rival gods. Man has not considered man
as the work of one creator.
" The political invitations under which he
lias lived, have been counter to whatever religion
tie profeticd. Initead of that universal benevo
lence which the morality of every known religi
on declares, he has been politically bred to con
sider his species as his natural enemy, and to de
scribe virtues and vices by a geographical chart.
" These principles we now declare are not pecu
liar to the society that addrefies you. I hey are
xcending themselves, with accumulating force,
Ihiough every, part of our country., and derive
strength from an union et causes which no other
principles admij.
44 'i he religious friend of man, of every deno
mination, records them as his own $ tney ani
mate the lover of liberty ; and they cheriih the
aeart of the poor, now bending under an oppiel
fioh of taxes, by a profpeft or relief.
. 44 We have against us only that fame enemy
which is the enemy ofjuftice in all countries, a
herd of courtiers fattening on the spoil of the
public.
44 Ic would have given an additional triumph
to our congratulations, if the equal rights of man
(which are the foundation of your declaration of
rights) had been recognized by the governments
around you and tranquility eftabliflied in all :
But if despotism be itill reserved to exhibit, by
ionfp:racy and combination, a fartner example of
infamy to future ages ; the power that disposes of
events, best knows the means of making that ex
ample finally beneficial, to his creatures."
Society for ejldblijbing ujeful Manufactures.
NOTICE is hereby given to the holders of
(lock in the said society, Chat .the foiiov. ing
arrangement has been made by the Deputy Go
rrno. and D ; rettors thereof, by a resolution of
he eighteenth day of May, 179 2 •
The fee nd instalment for the payment of fliares
in the stock of this society, may be made in the
followiug manner, viz.
The amount of the said second instalment, be
ing 20 13-100 dollar! each (hare, n.ay be paid in
three payments! on condition that tbe lawful itl
tereft of 7 per cent, per anflumj be calculated
and paid with each proportionate part of the
payment, that is to fay, on or before the thir
t:enth day of August next, the sum of 6 71-100,
with the addition of 12 cents, being the intererl
if one month on 20 13-100 dollars on or be
\re the 13th of September next, the sum or b
71-joo dollars, with the ariJition of S cents, be
ng the interest for ojie month on 13 42-100 dol
ars—and on or before the 13th of Odtober next,
h- sum of 6 71-100 dollars, with the addition of
j. cents, being the interell on the fame (or one
Tionth. The said payments are to be made at the
blowing places, viz. In the city of Philadelphia,
it the bank of the United States —at New-BruriO
vick. in New-Jersey, to John Ba>ard, er John
Efqrs—and in the city of New-Yolk, at
he bank of New-Yoik, or either of the laid
ilaces, which may be most convenient to the
lock holders.
By order of the direflion,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerk.
July 24. 'f-
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale at the Printing-Office,
No. 209, Market-Street,
ind at Thomas Dobfon's Book-Store i;i
Second-Street,
Price Three-Eighths of a Dollar,
ADVICE
TO THE
PRIVILEGED ORDERS,
in the
SEVERAL STATES of EUROPE,
Resulting from the neceflity and pro
priety of a General Revolution in
the Principle of Government.
By Joel Barlow, Esquire.
George Town, June 2, 1792.
A NUMBER of LOTS in every (itnation
which may be defiied in the city of WaiTi
ingion, will be offered for sale, by the Cornmif
fioners on Monday the 2th day of O&olur next.
One fourth part of the purchase money to be
paid down, tlie residue in three equal annual pay
ments, with yearly interest on the whole princi
pal unpaid. JOHN M. GANTT,
July 25. Clerk to the Commiiiioners.
%* For fait at this Qfjice., Sermons by
the Rev'd Dr. William Linn ) of Is, York
Price 5/7 1-2.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Subscriber has it in contemplation soon
to decline his present business—and having on
hand a considerable quantity of fuperfine second
ana elastic cloths, together with a variety of other
articles in his way, proposes to fell them at the
followin reduced pees, VIZ.
Belt Superfine navy blue 34^
Ditto, ditto. Scarlet 36 j\
Common colours fuperfine 32/.
Elastic stripes cf %
L >ndon buff and white cafiimers 15_/6.
Ditto, coloured do. 15 f,
Yorkfliire do. do. 13J6.
Striped toilenets 34/.
Rattinets if.
Striped Nankeens : 3/4.
A variety of waistcoat fliapes proportionably low
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London best silk hose, from 22/6 to 24f.
The above goods have been mostly imported from
one of the firft mercantile houses in London, and
are of an equal quality o any imported intoAme
ricaj they will be fold per piece or smaller quantity
as may belt luit the purchasers , by the publics
most humble servant, JOHN SHEPHERD.
pcrfon dilpofed to purchase the whole
of the above ftpek, may a!fo have on reafonabie
terms his present dwelling- house together with
the store, a more eligible lituation for business in
the tailor's line is not to be found in this city.
The advantage of this business being i'o well efta
blifiled by the proprietor will bi very gra<, and
from well known fads, needs no comment.
A leafs of fix years may be bad of the house.
May 14, 2aw.tf,
To be publ'ijlted by Subjcription,
the
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR
PROCEEDINGS OF TIIE
Old C?o uysu:j?<),
From their firft Meeting in September 1774,
to their final diflolution in March 1789,
CAOMPP.ISING at full length, every impor-
j s tant refolotion, order, address, declaration,
arc. contained in the thirteen volumes of their
journals—a concise summary of the less interest
ing parts,—an alphabetical lift of appointments,
promotions and resignations—a collective viewin
the public expenditures, &c. &c.—the whole in
tended to serve as a fatisfadtory substitute for the
Original journals, which are now out of print, and
01 which the entire fubftan.ee, un incumbered with
official formalities and repetitions, will here be
given in about one fourth of their present bulk,
accompanied with one complete general Index : --
To which will be added, a copious and valuable
collet\ion of original
tat & ct-4,
from the Records and riles of Congress,
Couttaining (either verbatim,or in abftradl,
as the cnles may severally require) such interest
ing pieces reierred to in the journals, as may with
propriety be. permitted to be made public, viz.
fetters from the different officers' employed in
the public service during the late war—intercept
ed letters of the enemy—communications from
governors, state leg";nature's, conventions, and
committees—dispatches from agents and com
miiiioners—inftru&ions--- reports of committees
of Congress ; and various other authentic docu
ments, tending to throw a light on the important
events, to which America owes her present inde
pendence.
In the course of the work, will be introduced,
in their proper places, such parts of the
ij&crct J^oiwnald,
as /10 longer require secrecy.
As soon as 500 copies are fubferibed for, the
work will be put to prefi, to be delivered to sub
scribers, in numbers of 304 octavo pages each, at
OmeDollar, in blue boards. The Sub
scription money ivill not be required for the firft
Nu.nber, until the publication is begun ; and
on the delivery of each number, half a dollar will
be expe&cd in advance for the one,
I'o non-fubferibers, the price will be railed.
Subscriptions wil 1 be received by the prin
cipal booksellers throughout the Union, and by
the Editor.' JOHN CAREY.
No. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
BOOKS,
Printed and fold by
MATHEW CAREY,
No. ii 8, Market Philadelphia.
1. American Museum, from its comrnencemtnl
in "January 1787, to December 1791, in ten 'vols.
Price y neatly bound and Uttered, sixteen dollars.
This work, which is now conducted on an im
proved plan, containing the best pieccs publijhedfor
and again si the proceedings of government, will be
found to contain at leaf as great a -variety of poli
tical, agricultural, ar.dmijcellaneous efj'ays, as any
ever publifoed in An.erica. Perhaps 'in no one'work
arefo many valuable documents refpefling the hijlo
ry of this countty, colle&ed together. His excel
lency the President of the United State:, has de
clared of it, that <( a more ufeful literary plan
ha» never been undertaken in America, nor one
more deserving of public encouragement." 7he
fubjeription is two dollars and a half per annum.
Gentlemen in the country who wish to be supplied
with this work,- are requejled to give comwijfion to
friends in the city to fubfertbe for and receive it.
2. Ladies' Pocket Ljbrary—containing : — Miss
More's Efj'ays j Gregory's Legacy ; Lady Pen
nington's advice j Alarchionefs of Lambert's ad
vice j Swift's letter to a rizwly married lads j
Hit's: Chapone 00 command of temper j More's fa-
ladies Price 6/6.
3. Smith's Iliftory of New-York./"'-offr its frfl
fettlcmcnt to theyear 1732. To which ii annexed,
a description of the country, with a Jhort accourt
cf the inhabitants, their religious and political fate.
*nd the conftitutlon of the courts of jufiice—Price
a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Eeat
ie, L.L.n. profejjor of moral ph'tlojophy and logic
iu the Marifchal College, Aberdeen—Price three
fourths of a dollar, Of this book, the Critical Re
viewers (vol, 69. p, 62% J Jay :" We have seen
nothing on tbef&fubjc&s more plain, more J>erfpicu
us, or more genera ly ufeful,^
5. Beauties of Poetry, Br'uifij and American,
containing feleft productions of the mofi eminent Bri
tifb and American poets, Price four fifths of a dol.
6. Blair's Sermons, containing the whole of the
three volumes of the Britifb edition, in two. Pricb
two dollars.
7. JVeckar's Treatise on she importance of reli
gious opinions. Price four fifths of a dollar,
S. Examination of the objervations of Lord She f
field's on American Commerce• Price, on very fine
(xtper, five eighths of a dollar,
9. 'The Conjlitutions of the several United States,
wtth the federal Conjlitution, &c. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
10 M'Finga), an epic poem, a new edition in
12mo. Price three eighths of a dollar,
11. American Jest Book, in two parts, with
two very neat engravings% Price bound, three
fifths of a dollar,
12, Garden of the Soul, by Bishop Chalenor•
Price, bound plain, ha f a dollar, in calf and Itx
tred three quarters 0 f a dollar, plain 1 -2dol*
•3« The Douay Tranjlation of the vulgate Bi
ble ,in quarto, Pj-'-zc e'cguntlyAound and lettered.
50/2---/, fain, fix dollars•
Said Carey has for file, a large affrtment of
boot:, European as well as American editions, w
•which he will dispose of on the vtofi rcaJCnabtc terms, w
Country gentlemen, who favor him with commands,
may depend upon being Jupplied in the 'viofi fatis^fac
tory manner. A liberal allowance to such as pur
chaje quantities for public libraries, or to fell again•
May 17. 610. ia.w.
NEW-YORK.& PHILADELPHIA STAGES
Via Bordenton and Burlington,
And SHREWSBURY Sc PHILADELPHIA
STAGE,
Via Bor dm ton,
proprietors of the New-York and Phi
.n. lidelphia 1,-rjd and w*ter Stages b.-g leave to
mention, that for the better accommodation of
palfciigersy they have thought pro: or to remove
the djfiereftt* packet boats from tJit - c lurmer itand,
it the Crooked "illct wharf, to the wharf or doclc
immediately next below Arch-street, from whence, ■
an the firft day of July next, and afterwards, a
convenient packet-boat will Hart for New-Y<.,k,
" on every Sunday, TucTuay, Wednesday
and Tliurldjy, and return on every Tuesday,
Friday and Saturday. The paflage to
be made either by" the way of liordentcn or Gur
•ngton, each place to be taken alte rnateiy. Fare
r or gafienge.s from Philadelphia to New-York
15s. —For Goods pr.cwt. 6s.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
DAViD WILLIAMSON,
Proprietors of the line of Kew-Y*.k and Fni
ladelphia Stages, by the route of Bordenton.
JACOB MYERS,
AMOS HUTCFIiN,
NICHOLAS SCHENK,
Proprietors of the line of N. York and Phila
delphia Stages, by the route of Burlington.
The Shrewsbury Stage will leave Philadelphia
n the months of July and September, on every
Sunday and Wedneflay, and return on every
Tuesday and Friday, in the month of Augutt,
it vvill leave Philadelphia on every Sunday ana
I hurfday, and 1 etuin on every Tuesday and Sa
turday.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
daniel lot,
Proprietors of the Shrewsbury and Philad. Stage.
Jiordcntcivn, June 25, 1792.
For freight or paflage apply to the matters on
board, or to M'KEAN. & VAN EMEURGH,
at their store on laid wharf, immediately next be
low Arch-Street ; by uhom orders for the purehaje
of all kinds of grain, slaves, or other country pto
duce, are punctually attended to.
For freight or paflage t-0 Lambcrton or Tien
ton, alio apply as above. jaw t
Philadelphia, Jur.c 27.
PUBLIC REPORTS
FROM THE
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMETS
OF THE
Government of the United States
CONGRESS,
Commencing with the present Government, and end
ing withthe close of theSrJ/ionofMayijgv..
T HIS work is intended to be printed ill one
volume cflnvo, efiimtted to contain between fiv»
and lix hundred pages, and will pi delivered to
lublciibers in boards atOne Dollar and a half.
A compleic collection of the Repoit-, into a
convenient and portable volume has been fug- 1
gefted so the publishers by several Members of
Congress and other gentlemen, and they are now
determined to proceed 01) with the work, provi
ded a competent number of fubferibers appear
to patronize the undertaking.
Subscriptions are received by CHII.DS and
SWAINE, the publithers, No. 209, Market *
I'.reet, I'hiladi '| j, and by the principal
fellers in the United States. May 24. f
*, * Three handsome Editions of the Laws
if the United States for sale al this office
(No. 2C9 Market Jlreet) in folio and 08a
vo, either full or half bound—N.B. The
Laws of the lajl Sf/ion, in oflavo only, may
be had fefarate, price three eighths of a dollar,
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S AND SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE NOiZOC), 111 C 11-S T R EIT
NEAR FIFTH-STREET,
I' 111 L A B t L ? II I A .