[Numb, i 6 of Vol. ll.] SATURDAY, December 22, 1792.
To the Speaker and House of Dele
gates of Virgin i a.
The Memorial of the people called Quakers
RefpeElfully fheweth,
THAT your memorialists, fcnfib'.e o
the liberty they enjoy under the
present government, in common with o
then, do moreover acknowledge wit!
gratitude the indulgences they have expe
rienced in matters of conscience wherein
they dissent from other foeielies of chris
tian profefTors. This dilpofition in the
legislature for the relief of tender confcien
ces, hath encouraged them to folieit the
attention of this house to other fubjefts,
•which, notwithstanding they may appeal
trivial to foms, are nevertheless of such z
nature as to induce a belief, that a vo
luntary compliance with them would be
inconsistent with what they conceive tc
be right for them to do. They (wppofc
there are very few, if any, of the members
of this house lo little acquainted with
their religious principles and pra&ices,
as not to know, that they have at all
times heretofore scrupled to contribute in
any manner towards the support of an
hireling ministry ; and they trust their pa
tient fufferings in times pall on that ac
count, fufficiently evince that such refufal
was the effedt of real conviction, and
a belief that the injunction of Chnft to
his immediate followers. " Freely ye
have received, —freely give," remains to
be a standing ordinance in his church,
and a clear demonstration that a com
pulsive maintenance for any set of clergy
whatever, is in :onfiftent with tl e nature
and defigu of the gospel ministry : They
hoped, however, that ali legal demands
for priests' wages, had been entirely abo
lifheJ with religious establishments, with
in the United States of America ; and
particularly in this (late, by a law for the
eftablifiiment of religious freedom, where
in they find it declared that, « No man
shall be compelled to frequent or support
any religious worship, place, or ministry
whatever.
But your memorialists being informed,
that a chaplain is hired by the afiembiy
to attend the house during the session, and
paid out of the public treasury, they be
lieve it right for them to express their
unealinefs at the continuance of such a
practice ; as well froin confeientious scru
ples, as a belief that it is inconsistent with
the spirit and intention of the present
conftitntion. They are however far from
wifhmg to discourage any from the ex
ercise of religious duties ; but being fully
perfuadedthat fucha&s of devotion would
be as acceptable ir. the fight of the great
object of adoration and worship, were they
performed at the proper expense of those
who may believe it neceilary to have the
affiltance of a chaplain ; so they conceive
no inconvenience whatever can result
from its becoming a private instead of a
public expense.
And, however singular your memorial
ids may appear to some, in refpedl to their
nonconformity to the fafhions and cus
toms of the times, in dress, address, or the
like, and particularly in that of not vo
luntarily uncovering the head in honour
to any man, or body of men whatsoever,
they trust they fbafl (land acquitted by
every considerate person from the imputa
tion of obstinacy, or the want ofdueref
pedt to those in authority, when it is re
membered, that their disuse ofthat cullotn
proceeds from a belief, that it originated
in pride and superstition, and that it is a
mark of honour due only to the Supreme
Being. They believe, nevertheless, it is
right for them to render to all their due,
" Tribute to whom tribute is due, «uf
tom to whom custom, fear to whom fear,
and honour to whom honour;" which they
conceive is better demonstrated by an or
derly conduct, and refpeftful behaviour,
than empty forms, or adulatory profeffi
ons : They trust, therefore, from the le
nity heretofore experienced, tiwt they
By P. FREN EA U : Publifked Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
may at least receive as great a degree of
indulgence in this particular as their
friends experience in other Hates, and al
io from Congress, and the national afTe ri
fely of France, where they have been al
lowed to appear in their own plain way
without interruption and without offence,
when their common concerns ami ng men
required their appearance before thofc in
authority, whether in a legislative or jitdi
ciary capacity : And feeing the depriving
a man of any part of his neceffa-y appa
rel by coercive means, appears to them
arbitrary, and inconliflent with a repub'ii
lican government, and conveys no real
lionour to those who exact it ; and more
over may, under particular circumllances,
of aged and infirm people in inclement
seasons, be attended with inconvenience,
and perhaps danger too; they hope an !
request the house will take the matter in
to consideration, and grant such relief ns
in its wisdom may appear just and reafoi -
able.
Signed in ahd on behalf of a yearly
meeting of the aforefaid people,
held at Black-Water, in Surry coun
ty, Virginia, by, adjournments from
the 2rfl ir.y of the <;thmonth, 1792,
to the 24th of the fame, incluflve.
To th: Editor of the National Gazette.
Sir,
AS it is of importance that the people
should know the sentiments, as well as ta
lents of their representatives ; and as it is
a pity that a good speech, being a rare
tiling, (hould be loft for want of gather
ing, I have cohered the following- trip. ji
i?.nt oration on high salaries, delivered,
whether in his own imagination as the le
gislature, I will not pretend to fav, of
**** renowned representative
from the county of P... —,
"Mr. Speaker, this is an important ques
tion, and I cannot do ]11 it ice to mycoiifti
tuents unleis I speak to it. They are
a"crfe to high salaries, and as I am but
their representative, the punch in the
puppet, I mud speak their feelings and
sentiments, as I have none of my own
has been foolifhly affected, I lay fooliflily,
because I am a living wmefs to the con
trary, that a man is incompetent to the
science of legislation without having had
an education, and without much enquiry
Si reading. This I ma ntai'i to be utterly
falfe, and I will prove it a pofleriori, Mr.
Speaker j for I hold that there is such a
tiling as intuitive knowledge, and thai
there are inspired politicians, as well a
infpired divines. The law givers of the
Israelites were inspired and I cin fee nr
good reason why the law givers of th.
Pennfylvanians may not be inspired like
wife. If my coniiitnents did not believe
in inspiration, they certainly would not
have elected me, fori cannot boast of an
academic education, neither can I vaunt
of puzzling my brains with fnb>'e disqui
sitions on government. But, Mr. Spea
ker, my conflituents are n.cn of llrong and
and tried faith, and bel eve that miracle?
have not yet ceased ; for altho' I can but
make fhift to read and sign n>y name, so
implicit is their belief, thai, they join me
in opinion, that I am intuitively compe
tent to all the pnrpofes of legislation.—
What education is necessary to make a
taylor ? Surely none—it is a mechanics,
thing which requires no more than hands
and eyes ; and may not the slate be com
pared to a pair of breeches, and be darn
ed, patched and featcd accordingly ? 01
to bring the simile nearer home and more
on a level with ray comprehension, ma)
not the slate be compared to a Lumber yard,
where little skill is requisite 10 point out
the proper materials for repairing snr
building, and any man of common capa
city may point out the cuttings ? But Mr.
Speaker whatever gentlemen may argue to
the contrary, I contend that length and
breadth are cffcntially necessary o a good
member, and in these particulars I cannoi
suppose myfelf deficient to any gentlemer
m tkis house ; for as the argumentum bacu<
hnu.n is often more nervous than any o
liter, and produces convidtion when ever)
other argument fails, Eature has amplj
endowed me with this logic. This j
use in two ways, either in per fori or b)
broxy, and I can produce some instances o\
its eiju;.-;: y ; indeed I in some meafurt
J.ve my i. at in tK s house to its persuasive
power;;. Examine my dimenfions.Mr.Spea
ker, judge of my weight, and if either oi
the gentlemen in this house can produce
i call mat will weigh more, and whose
lead is larger, brains smaller, or Jkull
l " 'ker, I will vacate my feat immediately;
out, Sir, I am fearful, lam treipa
ipon the time and patience of the house,
his I hope will be pardoned when the
nembers consider that in all well corrtpo
ed speeches a fhuiriftiing exordium is ne
efTary, and as I have now finiflied this I
will come to the point and conclude with
i pithy peroration ; 1 will prove fyllogif
really that high salaries are improper,
whether considered in a political, moral
>r religious point of view j and firll po
itically —high salaries make men proud ;
pride is antirepublican ; therefore high
alaries are improper—iecondly, morally—
ugh salaries make men drink too much
vine; drunkenness is a vice ; therefore
ligh lalaries are improper—and laltly re
igioufly—high salaries produce no tribu
ation ; tribulation 13 neceilary to repen
ance ; therefore high salaries arc impro-
JCr —i- bus, Mr. Speaker, have I proved
is clear as that things equal to one and the
■■me th.iag are equal to one another, that
.ligh laiarits are injurious and wrong—ln
iddition to the arguments already Hated
I could produce another of equal force
t iz. that we might find men who would
erve much cheaper; for myownpartlwoulc
confenttoferve as governor or chief jufticf
or one half or indeed one third of the fa
ary allowed them—l hope gentlemen wil
.onfider the importance of the trust de
egated to them, be faithful stewards,
i'>t squander away the public money or
nch trifles as the officers of government;
! he great Cmcinnatus I am told, follow
1 the plough, when he commanded the
iioman legions, and why may not oui
late commander do the fame,: am
ave the Hate two thoafand a year? FOl
II y own part I think the honor of thf
hing a fufficient reward ; not that I havt
my objections to two dollars a day my
elf, because this is a moderate allowance
or a man who stretches his brains, a:
'g ht as a fiddle firing in the lervice o
ns country.
(To be continued.}
In the origin of the infurredion of St. Do
mingo.
[Tranflaxed from the French]
T- HE French revolution has caufec
urn a (hock in all the dependencies of thi
rmpire, a 1 ! such a difi'uiion of light ha:
:Tued from the metropolis, at once de
trudlive or ancient prejudices and so com
pletel) eveloping the whole system o/'thi
natural rights of man, that we mull not
inly in hrture forbear ere&ing new poli
ical structures upon those conventional
inundations, which have thrown the mo
dern European governments into such 2
chaos of confufion ; but alio avoid fnp
porting or in any degree ct-nntenar eing
t 1 ofe which have hitherto b.en crested on
a similar plan. The boldetl experiment,
perhaps, that has ever been made Gnce
the exifter.ee of the civilized slate of na
tions, has bej:un to inllnuate into the
minds of people, even the most stupid
and enfiaved, an idea of their own llrength.
and the means of breaking their chains;
and will, when they are completely difen*
tangled from their fetters, elevate their
minds to a sense of the due dignity and im-
[Total No. i2o.j
portance of relying upon reason for thei 1
guide inall human concerns.
Mankind are now about to carry into
prafticea theory, which i as hitherto ap
peared io little adapted to the condition
and nature of the world wa live in, that
rven those tyrants pafled (fit visionaries,
who had exprcffed iheir appreheniions
tnat it would one day become a prafh'cal
fyfteifl. Every Frenchman now under-
Itands that the general good is the great
end of all laws, and the themomcter of
t.'ieir value ; and that the advancement
of this general good alone obligates a peo
n'e to obey them. He also knows that
t-.e people have a right to annul them
whenever they fee fit, and even to change
a conllitutioti itfelf whenever it fails of
attaining this end.
1 his truth, so folemniy declared In the
conuitution of France, so well understood
and now become so familiar to all minds'
will inceflantly pursue, till they are whol,
!y destroyed, those vicious initiations,
which facrifice one country to the inter
ests of another, and on the altar of ambi
tion immolate men to men. The anti
luityof political abuses, and the ambi
guity of sophistry, which has hitherto
i upported them, will no longer conceal
i heir weakness and danger. The people
know very well, and the courts of all
princes mull loon confefs, that what has
been, mud not determine what is to be,
any more than what ought to be.
It was by lofingfight of these maxims,
To eflential to colonial government, that
the whites of St. Domingo, and the con
stituting allembly, (which was weak e
nough to ariopt their tyrannical opinions)
:>cca(ioned the revolt of the blacks in
that island It is perfe&ly ridiculous
to attribute this event to any pretended
machinations of the frinds of the black#,
or even to their philanthropic writings,
as the white colonilt have presumed to
fay, and as the minister of the marine has
insinuated upon their authority, without
condescending to bring the least proof.
Pliilanthropic societies, much older and
of much better reputation than out own,
subsist in Great Britain, and yet the Ja*
maica negroes, and those of the other
Butifh insular coloni s, so difficult to
controul, and always inclined to revolt,
have never been more peaceable than
since the institution of those societies
In North America, a rich and influential
feci have publicly demanded the emanci
pation as the blacks ; nay, whole states
and the Congress itfelf have either pro-
K'nbed, or will ioon pi ofcribe every spe
cies of slavery : The free mulattoes there
enjoy the fame privileges as the whites
and yet there has not been the least sti r of
iiilurre.'lion, altho' the population of
the iouthern dates consists principally of
negro Oaves. The negroes themselves
are not fools. They hav £o bferved enough
to know that the whites are almost every
whc ; e engaged in some way or another
ameliorating their condition, and that
every tlung is doing for them thatpofiibly
can be done. They infer from thence
that in the present fituatidn of tiling
the moll prudent part they can take i s so
submit to the laws, keep to their work
and obey their matters. '
Very different has been the conduct of
the v. hite mailers on the island of St
Dom'ngo. The effects produced are
therefore contrary to those in the United
States In the general (hock of the
French revolution, the negroes mull have
been absolutely as stupid as the brutes
themselves not to have seen, that inllead
of bettering their condition, a more griev
ons burden was ptepariug, in reducing
them to endless political slavery, by de
priving even the free muiattoe3 of the
rights of citizenship; to whom all the
ancient French laws, and partcuiariy the
code roir (black system) of 1784,
.had granted them precisely the fame pri-i vileges as the whites. The {laves could
not othenvife than notice the resentment
of the mulattoes, the attempt of Oge
and his companions, and its ,atal event —
it was wholly natural for them to hope
that in cafe of their riling the mulattoes
would not join the whietsin quelling the re
volt. Thefeare the true caufesot the negro
insurrection in Hifpaniola, and, of all the
troubles that now diftraft our colonies.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
LONDON, Sept. 21.
Extract'of a letter from Calais, Septem
ber IJ. '
Mr. Thomas Paine, after a pafiage of
three hours, arrived here yesterday trom
Dover. The different treatment he met
with at the two seaports, is luch as ought
to make an Englishman blush for the cha
racter of his nation.
On the name of Paine being announced,
the soldiery at the gates were drawn up,
and the officer on guard having embi aced
him, presented him with the national cock
ade. A very pretty woman, who flood
by, deiired (he might have the honor of
putting it on his hat, exprefling her hopes
that he would continue his exertions in fa
vor of liberty, equality, and France.— ,
This ceremony being over, he walked to j
Deflein's, (whose ttreet is called Rue de \
l'Lgr.lile\formerly Rue de Roi, )attended by
men women, and children, crowdinground
him, and calling out,Vive I homas Paine !
He was then conducted to the town-hall,
add there presented to the municipality,
who, with the greatest affection, embraced
their new reprefer.tative. The mayor then
addrefl'ed him in a Ihort speech, which was
interpreted to him by Mr. Audibert, to
which Mr. Paine (laying his hand on his
heart) replied, faying, his life should be de
voted to their service.
At the inn he was waited upon by the
dilferent persons in authority, and by the
President of tlie constitutional society, de
liring he would attend their meeting ot
that night. The whole town would nave
been there had there been room ; the hail
of the ' Minimes' was so crowded, that
it was with difficulty they made way tor
him to the fide of the Prelident. Over the
chair he fat in was placed the bull ol Mi
rabeau, and the colours of France, Eng
land and America, united. A speaker ac
quainted him, from the tribune, oi his
election, amid ft the plaudits of the peo
ple. The women did not spare their
hands, and, for some minutes, nothing was
heard but " Vive la Nation, Vive Thomas
Paine !" in voices male and female. i hey
have appointed an extra meeting in the
church to-morrow, in honor ,t>f their de
puty to the convention, the Mmimes being
found quite fuftocating, from the concourse
of people who attended yesterday. To
night there is to be a play, at which a box
is to be reserved for the Author of the
Rights of Man, the object of the English
Proclamation.
Every thing here has the appearance of
peace and quietness. The arsenals are
well supplied, and able to Hand a two years
siege.
P.S. Mr. Paine has received a letter
from the national aifemblv, which he is
said to be answering from hence. He will
not probably be at Paris io foou as he
thinks, fiace he has been elected for Ab
beville and Beauvais, as well as for Calais ;
and they will hardly let him pass without
paying him some mark of their attention.
BOSTON, Dec. 8.
On Wednesday evening last, by virtue oi
a warrant iflued by justices Greenleaf, and
15arret, on the complaint of the Attorney-
General, the Sheriff of this county arretted
Mr. Harper, one of the company of corn
medians,' who for some time past have en
tertained the inhabitants of this town, as
guilty of a breach of the law against thea
trical entertainments —and held him to bail
to appear the next day before the justices,
and recognize for his appearance at the
next supreme judicial court. At the end
of the lecond ad of the •' School for Scan
dal'" which was then performing, Mr Har
per came forward on the ftyge, imformed
the audience of his tituation, and read a
card from the IherifF, informing Mr. H.
that unless the performances of the even
ing were immediately flopped, he (hould
apprehend forthwith all the persons of the
company. Much agitation ensued, and th«
resentment of the citizens at what the}
conceived to be a violent and untimely
measure, discovered itfelf in several spi
rited proceedings, and a loud call for the
performance to go on : But, at the parti
cular request of the performers, the audi
ence dispensed with the entertainment of
the evening, and peaceably retired ; firfl
refufing to accept the adiniffion money,
which Mr. H. offered to return.
The next day, Mr. Harper appeared be
fore the justices to recognize. '1 he court,
for the gratification of the citizens, was
held in Faneuil-Hall—when the Attorney-
General read a special order from the su
preme executive, dire Sing him to make
the complaint on which the warrant was
iflued, and then read his complaint. On
Mr. H- being put to plead, Mr. Otis, one
jf hia council, objected to the legality of
:he warrant, as contrary to the 14th arti
;le of the Declaration of Rights, which re
quires, that no warrants fhali be ilfued, ex
:ept upon complaints, made upon oath :
:ind the complaint upon which the present
warrant was iflfued not being made upon
oath, the warrant confequentiy was illegal.
Air. Tudor, the other counsel for Mr. Har
per, supported Mr. Otis's opinion—which
was combated by the Attorney-General
with much candor and fairnefs —The opi
nion of their honors being deiired, one of
them (Mr. Barrett) acceded to the validi
ty of the objection of the defendant's coun
fel.—ln consequence of which Mr. Har
per was liberated, much to the fatisfa£tior.
of a numerous and refpe£table audience.
PITTSBURG, Dec. 15-
Extratt of a letter from a gentleman a.
Fort IVaJki'tgton, to his friend in thi.
place, dated November 14, 1792.
■' On the morning of the 6th inft. the
Indians attacked the militia horse undei
the walls of Fort St. Glair, where the;
had halted on their return from Fort Jet
ferfon, to which place they had efcortec
ind fafely deposited a large quantity o:
Quarter-Matter and Contractors Hores.—
I"he attack was made a little after day
ight, the militia at firft gave way, bu
:heir gallant commander, Major Adair,liroi
■allied part of them, and with 45 men itooe
jppofed to 150 Indians for near two hours
The Indians haying the advantage ofnunv
jers took off 75 militia horses, and oni
lundred and nineteen Quarter-Master an<
Contrafliors horses.
" Captain Hayle and (ix men were kill
3d, and as many wonnded —only two were
"calped. Two Indians were killed, ant
everal wounded."
For the National Gazette.
Who are the best keepers of the
people's liberties?
Republican.—The people themselves.—
The sacred trust can be 110 where so fafe
is in the hands molt interested in preferv
ng it.
Anti-republican.—The people are fill
ed, suspicious, licentious. Tliey canno!
"al'ely trust themselves. When they have
iltablifiied government they fhouhl think
as nothing but obedience, leaving the cart,
of their liberties to their wiser rulers.
Republican.—Although all men are born
free,and ail nations might be fo,yet too true
it is, that slavery has been the general 10l
of the human race. Ignorant—they have
been cheated ; asleep—they have been sur
prized ; divided—the yoke has been so"-
ced upon them. But what is the leflbn :
that because the people may betray them
selves, they ought to give themselves up
blindfold, to those who have an interest ii
betraying them? Rather conclude thai
the people ought to be enlightened, to b<
awakened, to be united, that after eitab
lifhing a government they should watch o
ver it, as well as obey it.
Anti-republican.—You look at the fur
lace only, where errors float, rnitead o;
fathoming the depths where truth lies hid
It is not the government that is difpofee
to fly off from the people ; but the peoph
that are ever ready to fly off from the go
vernment. Rather fay then, enlighten th>
government, warn it to be vigilant, enrici
it with influence, arm it with force, am
to the people never pronounce but tw<
words—Snbmiflion and Confidence.
Republican.—The centrifugal tendenc;
then is in the people, not in the govern
ment, and the secret art lies in rettrainin:
the tendency, by augmenting the attract
ive principle of the government with ai
the weight that can be added to it. \Y ha
a perveriion of the natural order of things
to make power the primary and centra
obje£t of the social fyliem, and Liberty bu
its satellite.
Anti-republican.—The science of th;
stars can never instruct you in the mylte
ries of government. Wonderful as it ma)
seem, the more you increase the attractive
force of power, the more you enlarge the
sphere of liberty ; the more you make go
vernment independent and hostile toward,
the people, the better security you provide
for their rights and intereits. Hence the
wisdom of the theory, which, after limi
ting the ihare of the people to a third of the
government, and leii'ening the influence 01
that Jhare by the mode and term of dele
gating it, eltabliflies two grand hereditary
orders, with feelings, habits, interests, anc
prerogatives all inveterately hostile to the
rights and interests of the people, yet by c
myjlerious operation all combining to for
tify the people in both.
Republican.—Mysterious indeed ! —Bu;
mysteries belong to religion, not to go
vernment ; to the ways of the Almighty,
not to the works of man. And in religior
itfelf there is nothing mysterious to its au
thor ; the mystery lies in the dimness ol
the human light. So in the institutions oJ
man let there be no mystery, unless for
those inferior beings endowed with a ra>
perhaps of the twilight vouchfafed to the
tirlt order of terrestrial creation.
Anti-republican.—You are destitute, I
perceive, of every quality of a good citi
zen, or rather of a good fitljed. YOll have
neither the light of faith nor the spirit of
obedience, I denounce you to the go
vernment as an accomplice of atheilm and
anarchy.
/ispublicrin. — K-nd I forbear to denounce
/oil to the people, though a bb.fphemer ol
;heir right:, and an idolater of tyranny. —
liberty disdains to persecute.
Dec. 20.
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
I AM one of your constant readers, bu
:lo not often trouble you with pieces so;
publication ; not having great confident
nmy talents in that way. The ltati
lowever of our public affairs, at present
?fpecially upon the frontiers, has ver;
leeply affetted me, as they do our countr;
n general ; .& induces me to offer my fen
liments, such as they are, to the public—l<
be approved—or opposed—or despised—a
they lhall think proper.
If I may take the opinion and difcpurfi
of those within my own circle of conversa
tion, for the voice of the public, I th nk i
is unanimous in condemning the haft;
manner in which our rulers precipitatet
the nation into an Indian war ; which fom<
late writings have proved to us to be a:
unjust, as it is impolitic. It is notlefs una
nimous in its opinion on the report of tht
committee, as published last IViay, on tht
causes of the failure of the late expedi
tion, under genera] St. Clair ; and the de
feat our army received from the Indian:
011 the 4th of November 179 1.
It is perhaps iinpoffible to judge perfect
ly andfully of the report of the committee
until all theteitiinony 011 which they found
ed their opinion be published, which it i:
to be hoped will ere long be the cafe : bill
the official letter of the Commander ii
Chief, dated live days after his defeat,maj
at least be so far depended upon, as to af
ilire us things have not been better thar
they are there represented: I will therefore
(elect the particulars that appear tome ol
molt importance
lit. The battle was very bloody—at
least, upon our lide—for our loss was im
mense ; audourde/eat compleat, and fig
ual. This was by 110 means expected ; ioi
I believe a more numerous, or better ap
pointed army, lias hardly ever gone into
the Indian country. The General fays
indeed, that he was overpowered in num
bers : but this was only conjecture (as we
may fee by the opinion of tiie cornmittee)
because he was surprised, and surrounded
on all fides, without his previous know
ledge that the enemy were, in any force,
within fifty miles of him ! —This, to be
sure, was a bad look-out : but from the
opinion of the committee, the Commander
i:i Chief was no ways censurable for this !
2d. That it was fotuething like a sur
prize, I judge from his excellency's own
letter, wherein he fays, " the men had
been, as usual, all paraded before day, and
were just difmitfed" a few minutes before
the attack commenced.
All military men fay that it is difgrace
ful for a general, so to conduit an army,
as to fuller by fill-prize, even on a march ;
and much more difgraceful and inexcusa
ble in camp : but as I am no military man,
I do not pretend to decide on this point;
and more especially as the committee seem
to think otherways, and have approved his
excellency's conduct therein. That a
surprize ought to have been apprehended
from so intelligent and brave an enemy, in
his own country, is not disputed by milita
ry men; and more especially alter such
frequent and great desertion ; notwith
ltanding which, the army were allowed to
encamp, and repose, without having pre
vioufiy reconnoitered the groundsill front,
flank, or rear, as I am told is the cufton:
with all prudent captains : But the com
mittee find no fault with this, nor do I.
3d. There seems to me something very
commendable and magnanimous in his ex
cellency's apology, and in his writing such
particular notice, of his pains and his bo
dily disorders, which he fays were such,
that he could not get on and off a horse,
without help; and hindered him from
making the exertions which he might,
" and perhaps ought to have made." And
I apprehend this circumstance would have
been a very just and proper reason for his
excellency not being with the army at all ;
or for committing the care of it to those
who had health and adtivity of body : I
admit however that it makes a very bad
excuse for his being there and doing no
thing, at an expence of a million of dol
lars ; of the lives of a thousand braye sol
diers; and of our national honor.
4th. It appears from his excellency's of
ficial letter, already mentioned, that there
w as a dilfatisfattion in the army in gene
ral ; and a want of confidence between
him and hisofficers : The firft appears from
the desertion of sixty men at a time;
which looks more like a sedition, than a
desertion ; and the second appears from
his complaining in his P. S. of some intel
ligence being kept from him : As to which.
I (hall only lay, his firft official account ol
the battle, was the word time and place in
the world to inlinuate complaints againil
brave officers who had fallen in the field,
and could not pofiibly have an opportunity
of airfv.-ering lor theml'elves; and he must
beaDcnQuixoteirtdeed, whodares to step
forward to defend the injured honour oi'
abrother officer, lluin in battle, when thus
attacked ; We have nevertheless seen it
done effectually : but we have at the fame
time seen, it has not been the road to pre
ferment.
As these observations relate to incontro
vertible facts, in which the citizens of A
merica, as well as the adminirtrators of go
vernment, are deeply interested, theyneed
no apology : That we have expended a
million of dollars, the lives of a thousand
brave men, and much national honour, in
this inglorious campaign, cannot be dispu
ted : "but whether the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Secretary of War, the quar
ter maiter general, the contra&or, or
the commander in chief, has been the
cause of our losses, and disgrace, time will
unfold : At all events we have been taught
what we would not before believe, that
the war against the Indians, N. W. of the
Ohio, was as unnecefl'ary as impolitic, and
too hastily adopted by the fuperintendant
of Indian affairs, who brought it on, and
declared it, by virtue of certain powers
in him, very imprudently, veiled.
T.
December 20. 1792.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Tuesday, Dec. 18.
A memorial was presented from the offi
cers in the New- i ork line of the late con
tinental army, in behalf of thenifelves, the
non-commissioned officers and privates of
fald line, praying compensation for services
rendered, during the war, by the payment
us the balances Hill due to them—read ar.d
laid on the table ; as was also a memorial
on the fame fubjeft from the officers of the
Pennsylvania line.
Mr. Sedgwick, after foir.e preliminary
remarks, dating the iituation of the report
jf the Secretary of the Treasury, contain
ng a plan for the reduction of the public
lebt, and lor reimburiing the loan n ade of
the bank of the United States, suggested
the propriety of separating these two ob
jects ; and in order to this, he moved the
following resolution in substance—
" That the committee of the whole, to
whom was referred the fubjeft of the re
miburfement of the loan made of the bank
jf the United States, be discharged from
further considering the fame—and that a
"elect committee be appointed to prepare
and report a bill, authorising a lqanfor the
purpose—laid on the table.
The house took into confederation the
Coaiting Bill, but on motion, it was re
committed to the committee which re
ported it.
The confidential mefiages from the Pre
sident, being taken into consideration, the
doors were shut.
Wednesday, Dec. iq.
A letter was received from the Secreta
ry at War, inclofmg dispatches from (ien.
Wilkinfon, giving an account of an attack
of the Indians on the troops under Major
Adair, near Fort St. Clair, in which the
Indians were repulsed—also a letter from
James Seagrove, the American fuperinten
dant to the Creek nation, conveying an ac
count of the favorable event of a treaty
held with the chiefs of that nation.
Mr. Sedgwick called up his motion of
ycftertlay, for appointing a committee to
bring in a bill to reimburse the loan had of
the bank of the United States—agreed to,
and a committee appointed to bring in a
bill for the purpose.
The house then went into committee of
the whole on the bill to regulate trade and
intercourse with the Indian tribet—the bill
was road through, and several amend
ments made—which were reported to the
house.
Thursday, Dec. 20.
A letter, inclosing a report, was receiv
ed from the Secretary of the Treasury, on
the petition of LucKvig Kuhn—unfavora
ble to the petitioner—Laid on the table.
A memorial from the officers of the late
continental army, now residing in Mary
land, was presented in behalf of thenifelves
and the privates, praying compensation for
depreciation and loss sustained by them on
the certificates received for their services
—Read, and laid on the table.
A resolution was moved by Mr. Steele,
" that a committee be appointed to bring
in a bill to reduce the military establish
ment of the United States"—in order o
therwise to afford more effectual protection
to the frontiers, and thata sum of money
might thereby be drawn from the war de
partment for reducing the public debt.
Mr. Goodhue, from the committee for
that purpose appointed, reported several
amendments to the coasting bill—which
after being considered, were all agreed
to —The bill was then ordered to be en
grofled for a third reading.
The house then took into consideration
the amendments reported by the commit
tee of the whole to the bill for regulating
trade aad intercourse with the Indian
tribes—After debating a considerable
time on the amendments, and propofmg
others, the house adjourned without co
ii'.ing to adecifion.PHILADELPHIA.
December 22.
The Governor of the slate of Pennsylva
nia, has by meflage notified the itate (egif
!3ture, (upon suggestion from the supreme
legislature of the United States) that it
will be necessary either to erect a new
building, or enlarge the one now occupied
for the purpose of accommodating the Se
nate and Congress of the United States, in
consequence of the increased representa
tion that is to take place.
The Electors of the state of New-
Hampfiiire have unanitnoufly voted for
Geor:e Wajhington, President, arid John
Adams, Vice-President of the United
States.
The house of Reprefentativesand Senate
of the state of Georgia, do not agree in
the mode of eie&ing Senators of the Uni
ted States—the House iufifted on a joint,
and the Senate on a concurrent vote.
A London paper of Sept. 2i, has the fol
lowing paragraphs" We have authori
ty to allure our readers, that a very flat
tering invitation has been sent from France
to General Washington, to take the com
mand of tts patriotic army. We have no
less confidence in declaring, that if another
campaign is had in France, this renowned
soldier will make it agaiuft the holt of in
solent foe 3 now confederated to dellroy
the liberties of mankind, and those prin
ciples which have rendered America more
valuable than all the reft of the globe. If
this saviour of his country, and giver of
freedom accept the call, he ; ■ to form a
part of his ftaff from some of his old bro
ther officers. \
We expect every day to hear, that Con
gress will deliberate 011 the propriety of
aifilting France, as also to what amount, j
If Waihington goes to France, every ty- !
rant will loon quit it."
Died, on Thursday evening last, John
Strangeways Hitton, aged one hundred
and ten years—born in the year 16*82, on
Long-Island, in the state of New-York.—
Some particulars relative to this re
markable person are to be found in No.
90 of the National Gazette.
A correspondent, at Cumberland (R. 1.)
inform?, that Jonathan Carpenter, Esq. ol
that town, with the alliftance of Mr. Da
niel Roy, has erected a machine, on Paw
tucket river, for wateringland. This ma
chine raifesthree hundred gallons of water,
and discharges the fame ten feet above the
furface of the water in the flume, in the
space of a minute, the operation being per- '
formed by a single wheel-—This inven
tion, it is expected, will prove advantage
ous to the proprietors of lands in the vi
ci lity of rivers, or otuer waters, as the
mach; la may, with great ease, be co.i
ftruited to raise water a greater or less J
height, as may be required,
Extract of a later from Mr. Fenwick, Con- \
Jul of the United States at Bordeaux, to
the Secretary of State, dated Bordeaux,
nth Sept. 1792.
" It was decreed the 6th instant, that,
after the firft d iv of October, all tobacco's
that were fubje£t to a duty of 181. 153. p.
ct. fliould pay 101. p. ct. and such as paid
251. p. ct. duty, lhould pay 121. All other
tobacco of whatever country, fliould be
admitted on paying a duty of 151. p. quin
tal. Thus American tobacco stands fa- |
vored in the duty jl. p. ct. imported in
French vessels, and 3 livres if imported in
American bottoms direst from America. j
The administrators of the irnpoll have
given general orders to the directors of the
custom-houses to admit no merchandize or |
productions whatever to the payment of
the duties without a certificate of their o
rigin. This certificate aiult be from the \
French consul in the port of the expediti- .
on, or in cafe there lhould be no consul by ,
a notary or justice of the peace. 1
This information is interesting to the |
merchants throughout the United States." ;
'■ 1
Extract of a letter from brigadier-general •
Wilkir.fon to the Secretary at War, dated ;
Fort Hamilton, 6 November, 1792,70'- 1
clock, P. M.
Just as I was about to dispatch this, I !
received a letter from major Adair, com- i
ma.idant of the Kentucky mounted infan- ;
try, of which the enclosed is a copy > The ]
check which the enemy have experienced f
in this little affair, will produce good ef- !
fe£ts, and the event reflects honor upon the i
major and yeomanry of Kentucky; but f
the immediate consequence will be an en- '
tire stop to the transport of forage to the 1
advanced poll, as our pack horses are ei- ;
ther destroyed or disabled, and the riflemen <
demounted in this situation, lam per- !
plexed by difficulties, as from my igno- 1
ranee of the designs of government, and I
for the want of explicit orders, I am at a 1
loss whether to dire£t the purchase of more I
pack horses, or to encourage the liflemen i
to remount themselves.—On these points
I Avail duly deliberate, and will make such
decilion as my judgment may direit, relying
confidently 0:1 the liberality of govern
ment, for an excuse, lhould I err; and in t
the mean time, I /hail urge forward the t
I tr.nfport of forage from Fort Walhing
ton to this poitj by every means left in my
power.
As this affair happened near to and in
fight of Fort St. Clair, it may be enquired
why the commanding officer did not sup
- port major Adair ? The answer is ihort,
and will, I hope, prove fatisfaftory—Thej
e garrii'on under his command is polled for
t defence, and not offence, and although it
i' appears that in this instance to have ha
-1 zarded, would have been judicious, yet
- as I have considered it fafeft for the
a national interests to confine my subor
dinate officers by rigid inllructions to
defenlive measures solely, they are bound
to hazard in no cafe whatever, which does
~ not immediately and efl'entially infereft the
fafety of the trust which may be confided
j to them ; and it may be added, that in the
inllance before us, the attack was a molt
daring one, and that neither the number
: or ultimate object ol the enemy, couid be
) developed, before it was discovered that
- major Adair was a full match for them.
, I have this moment dispatched twenty of
my mounted infantry, who will reach St.
Clair before daylight, to aid in bringing in
the wounded and the weary.
Copy of a letter from major John Adair to
brigadier-general i: ihUnJun, dated i art
St. Clair, November 6, 1792.
i Sir,
This moaning about the fir 11 appearance
of day, tiie enemy attacked my camp,
within light of this poll, the attack was sud
den, and the enemy came on with a degree
of courage that bespoke them warriors in
deed ; fomeof my men were hand in hand
with them before we retreated, which
however we did about eighty yards to a
. j kind of stockade intended for stables ; we
there made a Hand—l then ordeied lieut. -
j Madison to take a party and gain their r.ght
flank, if poliioie—i called for lieut. Haii
to fend to the left, but found he had been
I slain ; I then led forward the men who
I flood near me, which together with the
| Enlignsßuchanan and Flmn, amounted to
about twenty-five, and preifed the left of
: their center, thinking it abfoiutely necelfa
:ry to afliit Madison. We made a maniy
push, and then the enemy retreated, taking
all our horses except five or fix. We drove
them about fix hundred yards through our
camp, where tiiey made a itai.ti, and
we tought them some time—two of my
■ men were here shot dead.
At that moment I received information
that the enemy was about to flank us on
the right, and on turning that way, I saw
about sixty of them running to that point.
L had yet heard nothing of Madison—l
then ordered my men to retreat, which
: they did with deliberation, heartily curling
the Indians, who pnrlued us dole to our
camp—where we again fought them until
they gave way ; and when they retreated
our ammunition was nearly expended, al
though we had oeenfupplied from the gar
rison in the course of the attion. I did not
I think proper to follow them again, but or-
I dered my men into the garrii'on to draw
; ammunition. I returned however, in a
! few minutes to a hill, to which we had firft ]
driven them, where I found two of my | [
men scalped, who were brought in. Since) '
I begap to write this a few of the enemy ! |
appeared in fight, and I pursued them with 1
.a party about a quarter of a mile, but 1
couid not overtake them, and did not think J
proper to go farther. Madison, who I sent 1
to the right, was on his firft attack wound- 1
ed, and obliged to retreat to the garrison, '
, leaving a manor two dead.
j To this misfortune I think the enemy
i are indebted for the horses they have got ; )
had he gained their right flank, 1 once iiad
! pofl'elfion of their left, and I think we J
lhould have routed them at that Hage of *
I the action, as we had them on the retreat.
I I have fix killed and live wounded ; four r
men are miffing, I think they went off ear- q
ly in the action on horseback, and are, I r
suppose, by this, at Fort Hamilton. My f
officers and a number of men diltinguilh- a
ed themselves greatly.—Poor Hail died 9
calling to his men to advance.—Madison's li
bravery and conduct need no comment ; p
they are well known.—Flinn and Bucha- 1 a
nan acted with a coolness and courage 3
which does them much honor. Buchanan ! f
after firing his gun knocked an Indian j I
down with the barrel.—They have killed t
and taken a great number of the pack- 4
horses.—l inteud following them this even- I
ing some diltance, to ascertain their route
and strength, if pollible ; 1 can with pro- 1
priety fay, that about fifty of my men a
fought with a bravery equal to any men in '
the world, and had not the garrison been f
so nigh, as a place of fafety for the bash- 1:
ful, I think many more would have fought
well. The enemy have no doubt as many c
killed as myfelf ; they left two dead on the C
ground, and I saw two carried off. The f
only advantage they have gained is our r
horses, which is a capital one, as it disables r
me from bringing the interview to a more p
| serious and fatisfadtorydecifion. lam for- i:
ry I cannot fend you better news, and am, t
fir, yonrs, &c. v
Copy of a letter from fames Seagrove,EJq. c
to the Secretary of War, dated St. Ma- c
rys, iid Nov. 1792, a
S c
Being jufl arrived here from the confer- p
ence ground at Colerain, in company with j \
forty-five of the principal Chiefs' of the;d
- Creeks on a visit to my residence, and find
y ing a boat departing for Savannah, I drop
you a line in haife, lo inform you that
1 every thing hath gone favorable beyond my
i most ("anguine expectation.
I had present at our meeting the chiefs
, of eighteen of the principal towns in the
■ Creek nation, Peace and fricnrilhip with
r the United States they confirm, and declare
t pointedly againftjoining the northern tribej
• or any others red or white agaihll us. The
- whole particulars you lhail have without
- delay. In the mean time I am happy in
• being able to fay that every thing is in a
> molt plealing state between the Creeks and
! our country. I hope you will excuse this
as I am now surrounded with a very noi
' fy, but friendly crew of Red Kings and
• Chiefs.
[From Cape Francois, Nov. 15.]
Yelterday two whites, one a deserter of
Uie Cape regiment, and ten negroes taken
prifo-.iers m the attack of Ouaniinthe, ar
' rived here at about four in the afternoon,
guarded by a company of horse guards.—
fhey were conducted to the national
commiiSoiier, who ordered them to pri
son. An i mine.ale crowd accompanied
these twelve unfortunate people, and not
withftandiilg the efforts of the guard, they
had scarcely turned the firll corner, when
a band of soldiery, enraged by the fight of
i the deserters, ltrucK them with their
'\vords: these blows were the iignal of
death for all the others, who were butch
ered on the spot.
ExiraCl of a letter from Bojlon, Decern
ber 10.
"We have now one of the newly in
vented patent Wind Mills erected in .this
town : it is thirty feet high and eighteen
! fee: diameter : it carries two large grind
ltones and a lathe for turning all forts of 1
iron work. One hand can grind eight do
zen of axes in one day by means of tnis in
vention. Our glass works arc- going on
rapidly; the fpeciinens of window glass 1
already produced are, if poffible,fiipe.ior ]
to London Crown."
Charles Carroll, Esquire, Senator of 1
the United States, from the itate of Mary- '
land, having reiigned, the hon. Richard 1
Potts has been elected to fill the vacancy. '
1
The subscription !or commuting the ca- e
pital lTrock of the Insurance Company of ;
North-America, amounting to!:>: hundred t
thousand dollars, was completed on the I j
15th inft. and the fir.ft inftalrnent paid into ,
the hands of the fe:retary. The company [
being organized agreeably to the conititu- t
tion, have commenced the buiinefs of In- -
;'urance; and tile Directors intend to peti- 1 -
tion the legislature of the lfate, for an att!
of incorporation. [;
" An extrafr from a Georgia paper has 1
appeared in ieveral papers of this city, re- ! t
fpecting a Cant. Hickman and a Mr. Skin- j 1
ner, reported to be of Boil 011, who are said j v
to have kidnapped negroes from Martini- u
co. Injufticeto several resectable per
sons of their profefiion, by the nalile of r
Skinner, who fail from lio'lon, and the ci- t
tizens in general, it ought to be known, :i
that neither Capt. Hickman nor Mr. '1
Skinner are Americans, nor was the latter P
ever three months in Bolton. These per-
Tons being said to be of Boflon, has ex< i- v
ted some unhappy prejudices againlt the n
veflels from that place in the Wed-In- >-
dies. a
Perhaps the giving this a place in the fe- v
veral papers where the other lias been in- h
ferted, v. ill have a happy tendency tore- tl
move it, and prevent any future inconve- tl
niencies ariiing therefrom." c
The following flatements of French si- j r
nancial matters, will fliew that the llrug- j
gles of the French nation are not fcr chi-
meras. The whole mass of taxation be
fore tiie revolution, excluiive of tithes
and other casual impolls, amounted to t j
955,000,000 of livres (feveuty-or.e million,
fix hundred and twenty-five thousand n
pounds, Pennsylvania money)— The part
appropriated to the privileged, was,
330.000,000 livres—fo that there remained
for the life of the (late, 625,000,000, which
lalt Uun was appropriated as follows—To 0
the receivers, farmers general, and ethers,
40,000.000 —To jo,coo receivers and col- D
lectors of taxes, adminitftred and farmed, q
41,000,000 —To ;co.oco receivers and col- -j
lectors of taxes, called taiiles, Vingtieme, y
and capitation, 18,000,000 —According to p
Mr. Neckar's account rendered to the con- -j
ftituting aifembly in 1-S9, the sum paid an- y
nually into the royal treasury, was only p
476,000,000 —Sixpended yearly and unac
counted for, 50,000,000 —amounting to
625 v 000,000 iivres, as above. Hence we V
fee, that nearly one fourth of this imrnenfe S
revenue went for collection and other 13
malversations, and even out of the sum '1
paid into the royal treasury, many pen- \
fioners, sycophants, fhiecures, harlots, &c.
&c. received their pittance—Since the re- ~
volution, impolts have been abolished (ex
cluiive of tithes and many other impositi
ons) to the amount of 497,200,000 livres,
and which have not been replaced bv any
others. The amount of- French national
property is computed at 3,892,000,000, from
which is to be deducted the demandable
debt, contra fled under the old defpetic
I- government, 3,400,000.000, which leave;
ip of clear national properry, 492,cc0,cc0
it from which we may observe that the p! o
ly ceeds ol'fales of the national property wii
exceed the national debt by 492,cc0,cc:
Fs of livres. The foregoing statement of
e three thousand eight hundred and ninety
h two millions, is agreeably to the returns
e ..adeby the conflituting aflembly in 1-91 :
•o But as the prices of the estates already fold
e conliderably exceed the valuation, it is
t supposed that the sales of the eltates unfold
n will surpass, greatly, the one thousand fix
a hundred and thirty-five millions of livres,
i at which tltey are valued. We may fafe
s ly suppose, therefore, that the national re
- sources do not fall short of four thousand
:1 millions and a half of livres.
The following account of the capture of
p Ouanaminte (a itrong negro poll in French
I Kifpaniola) by Gen. Rochambeau, is con
veyed in a letter from the Secretaiy of the
national commiilion, dated November "8,
. 1792 : —
[ " I transmit to you as speedily as pof!i
b'e, my dear friend, an account of the cap
[ ture of Ouanaminte.
Thel'e are the particulars.
The army had commenced its march at
6in the e\ening; a considerable fall of
rain obliged them to return to camp ; the.
artillery could not advance. We let oft*
yesterday at 8 in the morning, in the belt
order; evolutions of a complex nature
were perfo. med with precilion. We mar
ched three hours before we arrived at art
outwork of the revolted negroes or, the
plantation Eoujot, supported by one piece
of artillery, which raked the road ; this
cannon uas protected by a river, and aw
entrenchment pretty well conflrufted.—
1 hey fired several times. The Geieral
lent forward the artillery which was well
served, and yet tfie rebels did not appear
to be intimidated. The General then, at
the head 01 the cavalry, crofled the river
and got polieiiion of the cannon ; in crof
tingvthe river we experienced a running
lire weli kept lip. The negroes then fell
back upon the plantation Tiroulier, where
they were prepared to receive us as at the
camp at Boujot; but here they had an 8
pounder. We advanced within half the
diliance of musket i:,ot, their cannon fi
ring, without effett. The General order
ed our artillery to commence firing, and
he went forward with the cavali), and
tool: polfeflion of this piece also, sword hi
j hand. At this time there were but seven.
men with him. After the flight of the re
bels the plantation uas found on fire, and
every piece of canes in its neighbourhood.
There were many negroes killed ;;i these
! two attacks.
; We next marched to Ouanaminte, the
I belt fortified poll, indeed the Gibra!tai-of
I the revolted. It was four o'clock by the
; time we had come within gun-shot of it.
| This fort had a very artillery,
well served, but their mot palled over
us.
Our artillery was not silent. The gene
ral ordered the dragoons of Mornet to at
tack on one fide, ti hile he led those of Ou
anaminthe 011 the other. Ihe enemy's
fire was very hot and well supported. We
pufhedon to die aliault and carried it ; we
lolt but one man. and had one flight!y
wounded. I could not tell the nun.lei of
negroes that fell in the engagement, but n
is very conliderable. The enemy chiefly
aimed at the general. We have vifitee! 1~-
veral parts of the post, and we shall Sind
here good quarters ; the general occupies
the dwelling of Jean Fran jois (cliitf of
the revolted.) The rebels are much dif—
concerted—3oo want to surrender. An
order given out by the general this morn
ing will tend to bring many to their duty.
He promises 4 dollars to eachJoldier who
fliali bring a negro prisoner ; this will be
a means of preventing their being butch
ered. I fliould be too prolix did I attempt
theeulogium of our general. He is an in
trepid and cool commander, who by his
military talents, will be able to lead 1/is
soldiers wherever he pleases."
On the ROYAL PORTRAITS, in the Se
nate Chamber.
DISCHARGED by France, 110 more the royal pair
Claim from a nation's love a nation s care
1 heir in lend id race no more a palace holds, —
While Lo - frets, A;, o- scolds;
Folly i fad viflims, fortune's bitter sport,
I hey take their fland amorg the "co raon forr,"
Doom d thro the world, in fad reverse, to roani
Perhaps—without a inciter or a home !
To (hew our pity for their thorr liv'd reign
What shall we do, or how express our pain t
Since for their, e,r, no relief is found
But cruel mobs degrade them to the ground,
To {how how deep y we regret their'fall
Wc hang their portraits in our Senate Halls
PRICE OP STOCKS.
Six per cents. 2
Three per ccnts. 12/fi
Deferred, 1
N. American 35
EtnkU. S. 4SAEROSTAT IO N.
Mr. Blanchap.d, we are well inform
ed, intends fiiortly, to favor the enlight
ened citizens of this metropolis, with the
fight of a grand aerostatic experiment,
flionld fufiicient encouragement speedily
offer to defray the expence of so costly an
undertaking.
This gentleman lias gratified the inha
bitants of most conflderable European ci
ties with this noble exhibition, and has e
very where given the completed fatisfac
tion, and met with univerlal applause for
his intrepidity and (kill.
We have often been entertained by ac
counts of experiments in this wonderful
art ; we now have an opportunity of wit
nefiing this bold aerial flight, of feeing
man, become sovereign of the invisible ele
mcnt, by means of a huge and beautiful
machine, quit the earth, rife gradually ant
majefticaliy, soar above us and lose him
felf in the clouds—iga ; n we fee him, emer
ging from them, fly on the wings' of the
w! :d, and gradually lefTening in our fight
disappear at l ift. The fight bafflles al
attempts at deicription, and language doei
not afford words to express the feelings o
the fpe&ator at the moment of departure
To those totally unacquainted with th(
nature of the expei nent, surprise is th<
predominant feeling—with those not tho
roughly acquainted with the apparatu
Mr. Blancliard makes use of, fear mai
absorb every other; but a knowledge o
the conftruftion of his aerollat leaves u
at ease for his fafety—the mind is en
wrapt in admiration, and we share th<
feelings that mull agitate the bread of thi
aeronaut, fur v eymg from a perpendiculai
height of a mile or two the ball beneatl
him.
Some account of the history and natun
of balloons, may not be, at this time, un
acceptable to many of our readeis—w(
anticipate their withes, and will endeavoi
fuccin£tly to gratify them.
The brothers Mongolliers, Frenchmen
and by trade paper-makers, about the yeai
X 783 firft hit upon the idea, that if air ex
panded, and consequently rendered light
er by heat, could be confined in a lighl
covering, the covering would rife and re
main floating in the atmosphere, unti
cold should again condense the ran Red air,
An experiment made privately, and on :
confined scale, proved their theory. Il
was alter wards repeated upon a iargei
scale, and the success was dill more fatis
factory. The next step towards improve
ment was giving such a size to the ma
chine as to enable it to bear with it a quan
tity of c.- .ibultible matter, which by pre
serving the air 111 the balloon in a state oi
rarefadlion, kept it up for a longer time
Animals of various kinds were nexttruft
ed in this new aerial vehicle and vifitec
the clouds.
A short time after this firft step in tht
art of aerostation, some natural philoso
phers proposed to fiibftitute inflammable
air, which is much lighter than that wt
breathe, instead of ratified air. A bal
loon was filled with this air, and exhibit
ed in Paris from the Champ de Mars.—
The experiment had the deiired success,
and though this air can only be procurec
at a conflderable expence, yet as its effedl
was constant and not depending upon
beat, cold, or any other extraneous cir
cumftance, it was much preferred.
Notwithstanding this material improve
ment, which adds much to the fafety o
the aeronaut, two men were found fuffi
ciently intrepid to risk their lives in an un
ttiedelement,having fortheir whole depen
dence the most treacherous of all, —fire,
M. Pilatre de Rozier and M. d'Arlandes
were the persons ascended in 1
Mongaljiere (a rarified air balloon, which
kind took the name of the original inven
tor) from PasTy, near Paris, and remained
in the air a conflderable time ; having tak
en fuel with them,with which they preserv
ed the rarefaction, They performed theii
flight without accident, notwithstanding
the evident danger that the nature of the
experiment was replete with. For the firft
time trulling to the invisible element, car
rying with them fire, surrounded with fuel,
and the balloon itfelf made of materials
highly inflammaible.*
* Ft might here be added, that the
fame experiment repeated iome time
afterwards by one, or both of these
adventurers, proved fatal to them.--—
The balloon taking fire, was consumed in
the atmosphere, and the unfortunate ar
tists came to the ground, breathiefs,ha
ving fallen many hundred* of fathoms.
A short period after this experiment,
Paris was gratified with another aero Static
flight more beautiful, by the conftru&ion
of the machine, and morefafe to the aeriai
travellers, Messrs. Charles and two bro
thers Robert. Their balloon was filled
and ascended from the Thuilleries. Ihe
experiment was crowned with the molt
brilliant success. The aeronauts remain
ed many hours in the air, and proceeded to
a considerable distance. One circumstance
in this flight is worthy of notice. Aftci
their descent, MelTrs. Roberts ltft« the
balloon, and just as the fun had set, Charles
rose again with such prodigious velocity
as, by extending his horizon, to fee the
luminary of day rife again—and rife in the
weft, and then set for a second time. The
fight was certainly new and fingular—anc
without the invention of balloons, mighi
dill be numbered among impofflbilities.
These experiments led to many of a si
milar nature, and then to attempts at di
renting the machine.
Mr. Blanchard, who, before this, hat
rendered himfelf known by ingenious me
chanical contrivances, and by Icveral at
tempts at flying with wings', by means oi
powerful mechanism, with various success
applied his attention to the fnbjedt o
balloons ; and, by the numerous experi
ments he has made in this curious art, maj
be considered as the mod experiencec
aeronaut living. He invented the para
chute, a contrivance to obviate the effect
of a fall, in cafe of an accideiat to the bal
loon ; but since the aerostat has beei
brought to the degree of perfe&ion it ha
now attained, that contrivance is disused
as unnecefFary and cumberfone.
Mr. Blanchard has made several trial:
of various schemes for directing balloons
but the fubtilty of the element in whicl
they float, the fwiftnefs of the wind ane
the bulk of the machine, have basHed eve
ry effort of mechanism to attain this de
firable end.
It may not, however, be considered a
unattainable. Mr. Blanchard's experienci
has led him to entertain the moll faagiiim
hopeß,thatby means of the different cur
rents of air that prevail at different heights
in the atmosphere, the obje£t may be ac
complifhed.
We sincerely wish him success in iii
attempts, which, should they finally be fuc
cefsful, the improvement will be ranket
among the firft discoveries that have tiif
tinguiflied this enlightened age.
[Gen, Advcrtifer
[Extracted from a French paper.]
PARIS, Sept. 24.
Address of the Provifionary Executive Court
cil to the French Nation.
" Citizens and friends—Defpotifm re
ct;ived a severe blow in 1789, but soon re
covered herfelf. She then conspired a
gainst the nation under the masque of con
llitutionality, and undercover of our re
novated laws, endeavoured to bring us a
gain under the yoke —and the despots,
whom traitors had invited to come again!!
us, ordered the nation to pay homage tc
those very traitors. Wearied out with
repeated instances of treachery, indignani
at reiterated insolence, the nation roused
itftlf a second time—Death was the por
tioii of our internal enemies—'and tuis was
the energetic answer to the enemies with
out—Citizens of France ! They seem to
have underltood it. Tyrants will only
take eounfel from despair. They have
dared to fay, that they will seize away a
part of our national claims—and you, on
your part, have declared that you will re
tain the whole or nothing. Their armies
are now verging upon our frontier, and in
the face of these armies you have called a
convention, whose business it is to pro
claim to Europe the sovereignty of the peo
ple, and the usurpations of kings—What
a fight! never did this earth witness the
like before; never in the annals of n itions,
the molt renowned for the love ofliberty,
was an event of equal importance record
ed.
Generous citizens! there is nothing
now wanting but to remain at all times
true to yourselves. It would be injurious
to your courage to conceal from you the
nutnberlefs facrifices, the renewed dangers,
you mud expe& to encounter in this
mighty struggle for liberty. The tyrants
of Europe and the people of France now
look each other full in the face. The
(hock is begun—and in this struggle, wor
thy the attention of the assembled world,
there is no medium, no choice between
viflory and death. But, engaged as you
are in the duty of arming voiirfelves for
the defence of your dearest interests, ie
member, that while in the heat of warfare
you are crushing the external foe, the men
chosen by yourselves to conduct the af
fairs of the nation, ought to be wholly
devoid of pafiion when they deliberate,
and to forget if poffibie, that France re«
tains a finglc interior enemy in her bosom,
Remember aifo that upon your choice of
the deputies in the National Convention
depends the defliny of this empire and of
the universe. Ancient abuses are to be
reformed—important laws remain to be
enacted—but who shall be found compe
tent to effecting these changes, as impor
tant as indispensably necessary ? Talent a
lone without courage is not necessary—
Courage without talent will attempt re
volutions in vain—Energy of patriotism is
not, then, the only requisite necessary to
engage your votes—the qualifications an
three-fold, refpefctable abilities, a foul un
daunted at danger, and a life without re
proach—these ought to be the requiiite;
in every individual that aspires to the ho
nor of reprrfenting you in these days o.
glory and of danger.
Citizens, while you are steadily employ
ed in preserving that union in which youi
strength alone con(ifts,itisneceffarythatyoi
should rally your forces continually arounc
your representatives, in the choice of whicl
the whole empire has concurred—Confide
it as vour duty, also, to observe and obei
the exillinglaws—laws, which though im
perfe£l, will be continually rectified by tin
new representatives you have chosen.—l
is useless to dissemble with you —it wouli
be base toalarm you, as a true Frenchmai
disdains a timid heart—Our dangers an
growing upon us—the enemy is in force
and will, no doubt, exert their strength ir
the last agony of desperate irritation
Masters of Longwi,menacing Thionville
Metz, and Verdun, they mean to open ;
road to Paris, if they can poflibly accom
plilh it. Who is there among you tha
does not bluPa at the idea of their feeing
this Capital, while our forces are what the;
are?— Citizens, there never yet was ana
tion on this earth who vindicated them
selves into liberty vviihout fighting.—Yoi
have traitors in your bosoms—were it no
for them,our wars would foonbe at an end
but your active vigilance will barfle ?1
their designs.—Be united and calm—con
fider wifely your resources of strength—
bring them boldly into a£Uon, and you
triumph is certain.
We, however, who are invested witl
the exercise of the executive power by thi
fufFrage of the National Assembly ; we
who ?t this day are the sole representative
of the French people ; ive, the firft mi
nifters that the nation has ever chosen—
are determined to a£t up to our duty, anc
to honor the confidence reposed in us
We will take care that nothing shall bi
forgotten which may ensure the success o
equality—and though our labours may no
completely attain the mighty objefl, thej
will nevertheless not be loft—and altliougl
we ourselves should utteily perifli in thi
struggle for liberty, we fliall ilill have thi
consolation to refledt in our dying mo
ments, that sooner or later the efforts of thi
mojl magnanimous of mankind will overcomi
every ob/lacle, and annihilate all the tyrant,
upon earth."
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
December 170:.
D. H Bar. Tver. I'KnJ. J IVtath.
Tuifday, 11. 7 30. 1 27 N.W. Fair.
2 30. o 41 do. I do.
IV■ Jr.r'jay, 12. 30. 15 24 N. Fair.
2 30. j 36 N. £. I do.
Tburjday, 13. 7 29. 0 34 cal.n Cloudy.
2 29. 7 45 da. ] do.
Friday, 14. 7 29. 5 36 N.li. 'Rain.
2 29.31; 38 M.N.E j do.
Saturday, 15. 7 29.55 3° S.YY. Fair.
2 29. 6 37 do Cloudy.
Sunday, 16. 7 29.75 2" v. \Fair.
2 29. 75 32 »VNW \Cloudy.
Monday, 17. 7 29. 7 27 W. \Fair.
2 29. 75 36 do. I do.
CHARLES BITTERS,
No. 120, South Market, near Fourth-Jlreet,
Has received from New-York, and ma
nufactured by Lot Merkel,
A large and general assortment of
Muffs and Tippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
GreatCoats, Caps, Mitts and Gloves linec
with Fur, which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lowest prices.
Nov. 24- 2awt *
THE|*rfon who borrowed aSILVER WATC T *
last August from a person near chia c»ty wifti
the letters M.T. (initials of the owners name) in
cypher, on the outfiJe cafe, the number 44521 ,s
desired to return it to the printer of th's paper,
or he will be advert'ifed in a manner that will be
dilgraceful to himfelf.
4t. 2aw
WANTS EMPLOYMENT,
Either in a Dry-good or Grocery /tore —
A young man that is acquainted with both J
and can be well recommended —
Enquire of the Printer.
New-York and Philadelphia
STAGES,
AND
Bordenton, Burlington, and Trenton or
Lamberton
PACKETS.
THE proprietors of the New-York and Phi
ladelphia Land and Water Stages, beg leave
to mention, that for the better accommodation of
the passengers, they have removed their different
picket boats from their former stand, at the
Crooked Billet Wharf, to the wharf or dock im
mediately next below Arch-ftieet ; from whence
a convenient packet boat ftaits for New-York,
as usual, on every Sunday, Tuesday, Wedncfday
and Thursday, and returns on eve/y Tuesday,
Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The passage to
be made either by the way of Bordenton or Bur
lington ; each place taken alternately.
Fare for paflengers from Philad. to N. York 15/
For goods per Cwr. do (f
Van Emburgh and M'Kean,
David Williamfon,
Proprietors of the line of Neiv York and Philadel
phia Jfagciy by the *out cf Bordenton*
Jacob Myers,
Amos Hutchin,
Nicholas Schenck,
Proprietors cf the line of Neio York and Philade!-
pb 'ia Jiages, by the rout of Burlington.
Bordenfon, Oft. 1.
For freight or paftage apply to the matters on
board, or to
M'Kean and Van Emburgh;
Who have for sale at tl»eir store on said wharf,
immediately next below Arch-street,
Old Madeira, 1 Muscovado,
TeneriHe, and >Wines. Loaf, and (-Sugars
Mount a'i n j Lump J
Jamaica Spirits, Molafles,
Antigua, 1 Coffee,
Montferat & !>Rum. Chocolate,
Newbury j Bohea Tea,
Roche!le Brandy Burlington Pork,
in pipes, cases and Hams,
demijohns, Flour,
Gin in pipes and cases, Bar Iron, &c. See. Sec,
Orders for Grain, Staves, Bills of Scantling, or
other Lumber, punctually attended to.
For freight or paJTage to Lamberton or
Trenton, apply at said wharf to Thomas Afh
moore, Wil'iam Douglafs, John Afhmoore or
Alexander Douglafs, (Matters on board) or as
above, to M'Kean & Van Emburgh.
Philadelphia, October 6, 792.
Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, Nod. 20th, 1792.
THE ftockholcters of the bank of the
United State? are hereby informed,
that according to the statute of incorpora
tion, a general election for twenty-five Di
re&ors will be held at the bank of the
United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the seventh day of January
next, at ten o'clock in the forenoon.
And purfnant to the eleventh fettion of
the bye-laws the stockholders of the said
bank are hereby notified to aflemble in ge
neral meeting, at the fame place, on
Thursday the eighth day of January next,
at five o'clock in the evening.
By order of die Prefidi?nt and Directors..
JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
t. J. 5.
Soon <will be published
THE SYSTEM OF
Ufcd by Mr. Lloyd, in taking down the Debates of
Congrejs j —
A S\ STEM so t v hat any man, of ordin*-
I JL ry capacity, may .rly comprehend ii in
half an hour, and foci p-ra&ice it, in its fulleft
extent, without any further inftru&ion, than what
will be conveyed in a few pages,—the whole ART
being comprised in eighteen Jimple cbaras?ers t with
out any of those perplexing, arbitrary marks, with
which the learners of other systems are obliged to
burden their memory, and embarrass their prac
tice.
Price, to Subscribers, Or.e Dollar t—to Non-
Subscribers, a Dollar and half.
Su'ofcriptions received by MeiTrSt Rice. Book*
fellers, Mavket-ftreet, and by
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-street,
Half a Dollar to be paid at the time of
fubferibing.
For sale, at the printing a few copies
of thefirjl volume of the National Gazette.
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S AND SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE NO. 20g, HIGH-STREET
JJEAR FIFTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA^