Vol. I.
For the NAT 10 NAL GAZETTE.
Mr. FreneatJ,
a remote situation in thecoun-
JL try, I came a few weeks lince tc
the feat of the Federal Government.
The quiet and happiness of every indi
vidual in the country depends so much
on the wife and dilinterefted manage
xnent of public affairs, that my ar.xiet)
to know more of the men and the mea
fuies of the government was beyonc
description. Since my arrival here, ]
have attached mvfelf to no party, bu
Aave mingled as freely as possible wit}
afl, and catched all the information tha:
w..\s in motion.
TVo fubjetts hadlonggiven me mor<
tinea.'jnefs than all others, which in
formation has not yet removed.
ill. Whether our public debt hac
been pled up in fatt through necessity
or through policy ? 2d. Whether th<
individual men who are intrusted wit!
the powers or the country have kep
themselves difmterefted ? On the firft
have very little doubt left. Many facts
which are eafiily come at, have convinc
ed me, that the public debt has beei
swelled to its present amount, as an en
gine of power, rather than from an;
real necessity to support public credit.
One third of the debt conlifts of thi
oldintereft certificates called facilities
These had beeifi fully provided for b;
the old Congress, apd would soon havt
been all paid into the public treasury
Several of the states had paid in thei:
•part of the whole of them, and the de
linquent states, feeing the powers of th:
new government, found there was n<
cfcape for them ; they were taking th<
jnoll prompt measures to collefl theii
proportions, and there is no doubt bui
the whole wouldfoon havebeen broughl
into the treasury.
This was one third of the whole debi
which is now on interest under th<
funding law.
The states had also in their treafurie:
many millions of the principal of th<
public debt, the whole of which migh
ealily have been stepped there, whicl
they in fact considered to be funk.
Large sums were due for lands thai
had been (old, contra&s daily offerer
for much more, at a dollar an acre, pref
;ed by the individuals with rcpeatc ,
?nd strong importunity, which togeth r
■would have funk not less than- twen.t'
millions of dollars, in a manner perfc.-ft
]y fatisfaftory to the possessors. T1 jest
opportunities were not embraced.
The debts of the refpeftive ftatr;s t(
the amount of above twenty mi! .lion:
more have been assumed byCongr ;fs.
This appears to havebeen enti .rely <
new scheme, not expected fay the states
and not di&ated by any apparent ftrorn
necessity. A great proportion of these
debts had been funk by the stales, anc
was then in their treasuries, hot is now
again brought into circulation.
These fatts are not to be denic:d, anc
they leave very little grounds to expefl
much from all the pretences about fink
ing funds. Indeed the five million:
that had been alllotted to purchase the
principal of the public debt, appear tc
me to have been (erioufly applied to nc
other ule, but tp be expended in the
market when moibey was scarce to re
lieve individuals an dto raile the pricc
of certificates.
After being obligfl d to make these ob
fervatiens, it would ,'have been a vast re
lief to my mind, te-Jftavc been able to
obtain a iatisfa&ory answer to the fub
jeft of my second en quiry.
Whether the men entrusted with the
powers of the try had kept them
selves difinterefttd V
It has been long :reported that many
of them were in i:a£t partners with bro
kers and ftcck-jobbers, and that the
banking schemes h. c been too power
fully and effectual »• Jrefled to their
avaricc. If this is truf ... furnifhes a
By P. FR ENE AU : -Pullijlied Mondays arid Thursdays, at Three Doi.i.ars per annum
T H U R S D A Y, May 3, 1792.
perse& explanation of what hasbetn be
fore mentioned: and.itwill ceaffto be i
matter of wonder, that such good term:
are given to the bank, —that the public
debt has been so mightily increased
and wrought up into such a curiou:
machine of fpeculatiom The love o'
power in some is gratified by their larg'
facrificcs to the love of property it.
others, and these two passions become
the altars of unceasing and mutual fa
crifices, continually imoaking with tht
fat of the land.
The roads to power in this country
are so open, and men who are ftrongl)
pushed by their ambition, and theil
avarice, will be so much more indefa
tigable in their exertions, than an)
others, that they will be but too apt tt
succeed, and there is much evil to thi:
country to be apprehended from tha:
cause, They will form themselves into i
corps like the Jesuits, will fcatterthem
selves every where and not be known
their schemes will all be in concert
pursued with infinitclymoreaddrefsanc
industry, than will ever be raliiec
againfl them. There is great dangei
that the public good will thus be prof
tratcd to private passions.
It is in the power of the Freemen oi
this counsry to prevent these evils. Il
is they, and they only who can prevent
them. I ivifn this moment to ba al>le
to Ipeak in the voice, of thunder, that il
might read 1 every freemen in the Unit
ed States, to impress upon him the im
portance or doing it. Surely there arc
difinterefte d men enough in this coun
try, who a j s known to be disinterested,
to do the public business. This can
be better judged of by the fn-emtv
ihemfelvei , than by any body else. It ii
indeed hai d to punilh a man for crime:
before the y are pioved—but this is not
aunifhing for crimes,—it is a very dif
ercnt afFs ir,—it is choosing out the man
)f their ci >nfidencc : a suspicion in fuel:
i cafe is ci lough : they should choose oul
he man of their greatest confidence.
The service requires it ; when lie isto be
ent so fa r from them, where his condu£)
rannot be intimately kn<)wn to them
i.nd whet e there will be so many, caufci
o interest improper passions, thej
should find the roan long known tc
them, and of whom there is no suspici
on. If they will not do it, they are si:
l'ubje£'ls for heavy burdens, they deserve
the yoke. A CITIZEN.
May ,2.
AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the fir ft Seflion, begun and jiejd at the city o:
Philadelphia, in the State of I'ennfylvania,
on Monday the twenty-fourth of OSober, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT to indemnify the Efhztt of tfu
late Major General Nathaniel Green,
for a certain Bond, entered into by him
during the late war.
BE it enabled by the Ssnate and Houfc oj
Representatives of the United Stales oj
America in Congress affonbled, That tht
United States lhall and will indemnify
the eflate of the late General Green,
for the sum of eight thousand fix
hundred and eighty eight pounds fix
shillings flerling money, being the
amount due on the firft day of Mav one
thousand seven hundred and eighty-fix,
on a certain bond executed to Meflieurs
Newcomen and Collet, by the said Gen
eral Green, as surety for John Banks
and Company, andthe interest thereon ;
excepting therefrom a certain conditi
onal bond given in June one thou
sand seven hundred and eighty-fix, for
about one thousand fix hundred pounds
sterling, (be the fame more or less)
being part of t>he aforefaid sum cf
eight thousand fix hundred arid eigh
ty-eight pounds fix fhillirigs, whic
was to be paid, only' in cafe tin
said General Green should lecover fi-orr
the said Banks, or Banks and Compa
ny, a sum fumcietit for his indemnity
Provided it shall appear upon due invcf
l igation, by the officers of the Treasury
that the said General Green, in hi:
life-time, or his executors, ftnee his de
cease, have not beett indemnified, 01
compensated for the said sum of eighl
thousand fix hundred and eighty eighl
pounds fix (hillings, except asaforefaid
And aifoprot'ided,That the said executor?
{hall account for a sum being about twe
thousand pounds sterling, (be the fame
more or less) recovered of John Ferrie
one of the partners of the said Bank;
and Company, by the said executors, tc
be in part of the indemnification afore
said ; and also (hall make over to the
Comptroller of the Treasury and hii
fuccelfors, for the United States, ali
mortgages, bonds, covenants, or othei
counter-securities whatsoever, now due
which were obtained by thfc laid Gen
eral Greeu, in his life-time, from the
said Banks and Company, on accoun:
of his being surety forlhem as aforefaic
to be sued for in the name of the faic
executors for the use of the United States
And the officers of the Treasury arc
hereby authorized to liquidate and fet
tle the sum due to the estate of the said
General Green, to indemnify the
cilatc of the said General Green, tc
indemnify the fame, as aforClaid, accor
ding to the true intent and meaning oi
tins ast, and to pav the fame, out of ita
Treasury of the United States, to the
'-j ■ •7« tr t !>c xrcnntxt c <■! £or by
them, as a part of the said estate.
Jonathan Trumiull, Speaker of thi
House of Representatives.
Richard Henry Lee, Prejident
pro tempore of the Senate.
Approved, April twenty-seventh 1792.
G. Washington, President of the
United States.
From a London Peper.
Abstinence from Sire An, RrM, &c.
A.Qucfiu-i of importance to entry Engijhman anu
Fr.cnd of Humanity.
AT Coachraaker's Hall Soc : ety, Fofler
llfle,C.heapfide, this •evening (by particnlai
desire) tile following question will be de
bated, riz.
" Is it not the duty of the people from ;
" principle of moral obligation and a re
" gard to their national chara&er, to ab
" (tainfrom the confumptioii of Weft In
" dia produce, till the slave trade is abo
" lifhed, and meafiires are taken for thi
" abolition of slavery ?"
For the NATIONALGAZETTE.
No. V.
Mr. FR-sneAU,
I Am well aware that the exhausted con
riition of the plantations in Virgini;
and the deranged situation of the finance:
of the yeomanry are considerable obstacle
to their estates becoming immediately pro
duftive— but I am confident that by adopt
ing a proper rotation of crops, their ex
hausted fields may be made to answer the
moll sanguine expectations of the Farmer,
On coming into pofieflion of the farn
which I now occupy the average produce
of it did not exceed fix bufnelsot rye to the
acre. The fame ground now yields fron:
20 to 30 bulhels of wheat. This beneficial
alteration has arisen from my pursuing th
rotation of crops, which was some time
ago addrelled to the Philadelphia agricul
tural society. As this rotation is founded
on attuat experiment the whole communica
tion merits attention.
To the Philadelphia Society for Pr-moting
Agriculture.
Gentlemen,
STRUCK with the proprietyand impor
tance of the queltion proposed by your so
ciety to discover the best rotation of crops;
Numb. 54*
■ have been induced to make a variety of
e ;;>erimeuts to ascertain this point. I now
I beg I ave to iubmit them to your consider
ation. together with lome particular and
general observations on the lubjett.
-3t!3t}AV •XspEjf3;iij t r s TWO 3 nj£>o - -SJEO -sanyjrj -\IX
•lß3i| y VV •J 3 *"!:) 'XiAOia •AoiDsß'Jvg-j(ts -sroaEjoj "«aq A \ nuo> 'nix
•J3AO[339 -jEii-jds ■ J3.io| 3 -J3A013 -J3AOf3 Jj-Jeg jdg -rsoaEjoj 11.103 'HOC
•A3[jEg jajuryvv -ajriyEj -JSAO[3 J3A013 Xaiaag 'jcTc *0.103 -11.103 TV
ncsqAV S s3o;ej o<l -ujo3 -o.inyE cl -sje 0 IUO3 naq'/Vi 'X
AO IC> h UI X **1.1 'ssojmoj -SSOJEJOJ -jaAoi;) -J3AO|3 'J3AOIQ Jff '-lEg -jdg -SSOTEJOJ -yt
' ao l3 Jn i XB tJ •s3oje;o c j -.{ajjEy Suutfg *J3Vo|Q -j3ao|3 -.13a0t3 tq -jEg -ads "saojejoj •TII\
•jE3itA\ -XsfJßa 2ui.id g •JdiU.mj, 59 "«!dt ™°0 -itjoo -sX>[ -n \
•acsil AV -Xojjcg Suudg -saonnoj -3.103 "TBsqAV '11.103 -j A
•3EOi|AV -tef.ieg3ut.ids -11.103 -JEsfjAV -ujo-y n>a>f -a
•j3ao|3 ?j JE3l[A\ -X3[jEg J3JUJA\ -jdg -13.103 -at-j -hjo > •at
•J3AOJ3 -i.-jjg -q<A g J«g , A\ Xspeg 'jdg •jßaijAvqang -11.103 -aXy -0.103 '111
A3[4Bg jojujav .' 3 - n, U K cf _ -wnjjEj 35J JSAOJQ -j3/o[3 7$ -jpg •jjg -11.103 -JJ
3Eoi[A\ -A3[jEg -jdg ' 3jn U l: <l -s-Uiyvj -j3AO[3 -j3AO[3 -jfspvg Zuij<?§ -j
'° 6 * 1 ' 6 8-» * 88^' -<?3<U -Sglf -t £ Zi -JXH
EXPERIMENT, No. I.
Field 15 acres; foil a light loam, full of
garlick and mucli exhausted. W-inter fal
lowed, and in April, 1784, spread ten loads
offtable manure on the acre, ploughed rhe
manure under, an"d sowed spring barley and
clover. In May 1787, the clover not pro
mising a crop, I expected to renew it by
the use of gypsum ; strewed fix bushels to
the acre, over the field, except the width
of twenty feet, through the middle of the
field. St. John's-wort and mullein, with
other weeds had taken such polTeffion of the
ground, that although this manure produ
ced a great luxuriancy of graf, yet being
full of weeds, it did not answer for hay,
and therefore was pastured until October,
1788 j the field was then ploughed eight
inches deep, with a strong three-horse
Dutch plough, for a winter fallow. In
April, 1789, it was well harrowed, and
cross ploughed four inches deep with a
light two horse plough, leaving the sod at
the bottom, and fowri with spring barley.
Where the gypsum had been put, and in
some places where the ground was strong,
the crop was so rank as to lodge : immedi
ately after harvest, rhe stubble was plough
ed under, and early in September was
ploughed a second time and sown with
wheat; the clover sod being perfectly rot
ted and intimately mixed with the foil,
aiforded a strong nourishment to the croy •.
produce twenty-five bufiiels to llic a«;re.
Experiment 2.
Field fix acres ; foil a light ioam, per
fectly exhausted and full of garlick. la
this experiment a small quantity of timo
thy feed was mixed with the clover, and
sown with the spring barley.—After the
recond year the clover being aim oft de
flroyed, the timothy supplied its place, and
ifforded a great addition to the hay and
jafture. In September, 1789, the clover
ea was ploughed ei«Ut inches deep; theCONGRESS.
HOUSE 01- REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, April 27.
A bill for regulating procelies in the court:
of the United States, &c. beVng read a th-iri
timff, 'was'fOn motion of Mr. Mercer) re
committed to a committee of the whole
House, for the purpose of amendment.
The committee having reported an a-
the Ho life agreed to the fame,
having paifed the.bill, as amended, re
turned it to the Senate.
An engro'ied bill authorizing the gram
and conveyance of certain lands to J.C.
Syinmes and his aflociates, was read a third
time, palled, and feat to the Senate for theit
concurrence.
An engrotf.'d bill, for reducing the rate:
of po.tage on newspapers, was read a third
time, pafled ["veas 24, nays 14] and fait tc
the Senate for concurrence.
A bill to confirm an of Referees
between the United States and certain con
fra£torJfor furnifning supplies of provision
for the army during the late war," was read
fivft and second time, and ordered lor com
mitment to-morrow.
A bill Concerning the duties on spirits dis
tilled within the United States, was twice
read, ar.d ordered to be committed to a
committee of the whole Koufe.
A meflage was delivered by Mr. Secreta
ry Lear, notifying the House that tiie Pre
sident of the United States had llgned an act
to indemnify the estate of thelate Mai.Gen.
Nathaniel Green, for a certain bond enter
ed i.:"o by him daring the late war.
Ameflage was delivered by Mr. Secretary
Otis, informing,. that the Senate had con
curred with the House in palling the bill for
calling forth the militia, when necefi'ary
that they had receded from their amend
ments (disagreed to by the House) to the
bill for establishing an uniform militia; —
and that they had pafled the " bill for rais
ing a further sum of money for the protec
tion of the si ontiers," with fuudry amend
ments, in which they requeued the con
currence of the House.
These amendments being taken into con
sideration, were after some debate, all a
greed to.
The House then resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole, on a bill (from the
Senate) for the relief of persons imprison
ed for debt.
The committee reported the bill without
amendment : but an amendment was pro
posed in the House, \vh ; ch continued iu de
bate till tfye hour of adjournment'.
Saturday, April 28.
A meflage from the Senate, was deliver
ed by Mr. Secretary Otii, notifying their re
jection of the bill for reducing the rates of
postage 011 ngwfpapers and their coucur
rencein the amendment proposed by the
House to their amendment to the bill rais
ing additional lupplies.
A report of a select committee on the re
port of the Secretary of theTreafury on the
subject of Marine TTofpitals, was read and
ordered to lie on the table.
furfuant to the order of the day, the
House resolved itfelf into a committee of
the whole, on the bill concerning the du
ties on spirits distilled within the United
States.
The whole day was spent in debate, after
which the committee rose and reported the
bill with sundry amendments.
Adjourned.
Monday, April 30.
Mr. Speaker laid before the House a let
ter from the Secretary of the Treasury, en
closing three reports 011 the petitions'of R.
Brackledge, J. Henderfon and A. C. Han
fon, which were read and ordered to lie on
the table.
A bill relative to the compensations of
certain officers employed in the collection
of the duties of import and tonnage, was
taken up in committee of the whole, and
reported with amendments, which being
agreed to by the House, the bill was or
dered to lie 011 the table.
Mr. S. Bourne presented, and Mr. Speak
er signed, three enrolled bills,—viz. a bill
more effectually to provide for the nation
al defence, by eftablifliing an uniform mili
tia throughout the United States a bill
to provide for calling forth the militia, to
execute tile laws of the union, to fupprefc
infurreaions, and rep£l invasions ; —a bill
for raiting a further sum of money for the
protection of the frontiers, and for other
purposes therein mentioned.
1 he Iloufe then proceeded to the consid
eration of the amendments reported on
Saturday last, by the committee of the
whole, to the bill concerning the duties on
fpiritsdillilied within the United States.
The duties on spirits difliiled from fo
reign materials, were agreed to, as report
rd by the committee, viz. Cents.,
Pi; ft class of proof (per gallon) 10
Second n
Third j 2
Fourth j 4
Fifth 18
r'jiKth 25
Those oil spirits distilled from domestic
produce, were reduced from 8, —
—i 5> and 20 cents (as reported by the
committee) to 7,—8, —5,— 11,—13, and i 3
cents.
Tile yeas and nays being called, on the
question for agreeing to the duty of 8 cents
reported by the committee were, yeas
26 ; 21.
Y • —Messrs. Ames, Barnwell, Ben
fon, Oondinot, S. Bourne. B Bourne,
( iarke, 1 it:!imoin, Gerry, Gilman, Good
hue, Gordon, Hillhoufe, Kitchell, Law
rance, Learned, Lee, J. Smith, W. Smith,
Stercett, . Sturges, Sylvester, Thatcher,
Tredwell, Wadfworth, Ward—26.
Nays—Messrs. Alhe, Baldwin, Browne,
Findley, Gregg, Grove, Heifter, Huger,
lacobs. Key. Livermore, Macon. Madi
lon, Moore, Murray, iS'i.les, Page, Parker,
Seney. Sheredine, I. Smith, Steele, Sump
ter, Tucker, White, Wiliiamfon, Wil
lis— 27.
F .ie third feftion of the bill empowering
the excise officers to receive spirits in pay -
ment of the duties, was struck out ; as> was
like wife the seventh feftion, allowing a
drawback of the duties 011 spirits loft by
iiiipwreckon their passage from one port
of the United States, to another.
The fifteenth section \Sas also struck out,
which laid the owners of stills under an
obligation to aflift the ev C :fe officers in
measuring and marking their stills, or to al
low them a oumpenfation for doing it with
out fufih assistance.
1 very owner of a Hill or stills, whose (In
gle or joint capacity doe: not amount to
400 gallons, 13 to pay an annual duty of 54
cents for every gallon the capacity of
Rich ftiil or stills : with the option however
of paying a certain Turn, (not yet determin
ed) for every month the stills are employ
ed, or for every gallon of spirits distilled.
Adjourned.
Tuesday, May 1.
On motion oi Mr. Wiliiamfon, it was
*e solved that the ft veral committees who
have not reported, be directed to report
an Thursday next.
The bill relative to the compensations of
tertain officers employed 111 the collection
3f the duties of impost and tonnage, was
:ai<en into consideration.
Mr. V. bite proposed an addi-iona'l
ection to the following purport :
1 ha; whenever a collector shall die. the
:ommiilions to which he would have been
entitled, on the duties bonded by him, and
1 tip aid at the time of his decease, fliall be
equally divided between the legal repre*
eutative «f such dud hir. fucctffor
n office.—This being agreed to, the bill
,vas ordered to be engi ohed for a third
"eading.
111 committee of the whole on the bill
iUthorizing the remission of certain duties.
Mr. B. Bourne in the chair.
The provilions of this bill are for the re
niffion of the duties on wines loft from the
:argOofthe fliip Brothers, wrecked on her
/oyage from New-'i ork to Philadelphia,
and certain goods loft on board a fliip
tvrecked near Plymouth, Massachusetts. —
The bill was reported without amendment
—the vouchers relative to the business being
"ead, the, bill was ordered to be engrofied.
Mr. Boudinot moved that the resolution
for a joint committee to wait on the Prefi
lent, to request that he would appo.nt a day
jf public humiliation and prayer, &c. was
aken into consideration—the House being
?qually divided on the question for taking
t up, it was determined in the affirmative
i>y the Speaker.
The question then was for agreeing to
:he resolution—Mr. Livermore objected
:o it ; he doubted the constitutionality and
propriety of it.
The question being put, it was carried
11 the affirmative—22 to 21 —and a com
mittee of three appointed.
The bill entitled, an ast for the relief of
lerfons imprisoned for debt, was taken
in.to consideration—Some further amend
ments w ere agreed to, and the bill palled.
The bill concerning fpiritsdiftilled with
in the United States, was further discus-
Ted— the debate was renewed —several pro
pofitionsof amendment were offered, sonic
agreed to, others rejected—and the bill or
dered to be engrossed for a third reading.
A message from the Senate, by Mr. Se
ctary Otis, informed the House that the)
have concurred in the bill for altering the
time of the next annual meeting-oi'Congref:.
A bill to authorise the remission of cer
tain duties, was read the third time and
pafled.
In committee of the whole, 011 the bill
confirming an award ps certain referee,
between the United States and certain per
rons, contractors for supplying the army oi
the United States with provilions, durinu
the late war—Mr. W. Smith in the chair"
The committee reported the bill with
one amendment, which was to strike out
the words "award or," in the firft fecti
o;i—This amendment was agreed to by the
House, and the bill ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading.
1 he report of the feleft committee, to
whom the report of the Secretary of the
Tre'afury on the memorials of the Loan
officers of Rhode-Maud and Ncw-Hamp
nire was referred, was taken Into ccn
lideratron by the committee of the whole—
This report was in favor of the memorial
ifti, and contained seVeral resolutions pur
suant thereto—Some amendments were
agreed to ; the committee then , ofe and
reported progress. Adjourned.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
On the Secretary's Report. $n the Excise.
(Continued from our lufl.)
I WILL now proceed to the cor.ildera
tion of the fourth point in the Secreta
ry'.- report, and the ground, upon which he
controverts the tendency of the Excise Law,
to injure industry. In his arguments oii
this top«c, lie attempts to prove that the
relative situation ofhouie diitilled spirits, is
improved by the excise ; because, as he at
ierts, the duty, comparatively viewed', is in
favor of whiikey ; —but supposing this 'o be
a fait, what is it calculated and intended to
prove ? surely not that whiikey ihouid bs
the only home manufacture, subject to ex
nfe : 1 he argument, applies with greater
< orce to recommend the impodtion of ex
cise upon the fait that is made in Kentucky,
or the sugar that is near the Cene'ee and
eifewhei e. Jt is directed at once to evince
the propriety of an excise, upon porter,
beer, cheese, barrel beef, leather ihoes.
• opts, and even upon the raw materials oi
m 001, cotton, hemp, and iron. All those
articles are certainly bettered in their rela
tive situation, generally speaking. frorr
7 1-2 to io per cent, by the existing duties,
and therefore by a parity of reasoning
ought to be loaded with an excise. Tht
;uftice and expedience of the regulator
would be as opposite and as 'plausible as ir
tne cafe of whiikey ; and I have no doubt
that principle, if not checked, will be ft
lppfied in clue time. But. the Sccretar)
otters an ingenious - di'ti notion betw'eer
whiikey to Commence his operations.
fie lays, that when a manufacture is arri
ted at maturity, it is as fit a subject of ex
:ife as any other.
What position can more fatisfaftorily dr
moniirate the truth of the obfervjition whicl
I have made oli the native tendency and ac
:ual design of the excise system j The rilli
iere offered, w ill readily adopt i/;felf to eve
-y exigency of the government, to ever
ifcal project, which the Secretai y's fruitfu
imagination may fuggeft—for hen an ex
.eniiun of the excise is meditati.'d, the mi
lifterial fiat is only neceflary to pronouno
.hat Inch and.luch a mauufaciii re has at
-amed its maturity ; and by the oflicial in
luence, it nuui consequently be added t
he excifeable lift. The exteiilion, I ar.
jerfuaded, will be gradual; fur the mo)
,'iiergetic governments have neve r attempt
;d a great and sudden accumulai ion of th
übjecis of excise. Even in Britai nit bega
with a few articles, and the pi ci footers o
t had recourse to the miferabie ill ift of de
.lying its name, and of resolving to punil
:hofe that would dete&the fraud by caliiu
it a:i excise. How painful is it to reflet
:hat our government, in its infani y, hav
(tuope,. to copy io pitiful a fubten"uge !
I have mentioned, that it is only necefla
ry for the Secretary to ailei t that a manu
facture is come to maturity—the preu'den
already set, lliews, that it is not liecelLar
that he should prove it. An ingenuous mini
must enter with regret into a denial an<
controversy of fajt., ; since a wrong state
ment of them, in order to support peculia:
ieligns,or to apologize for particular line
of conduit, wiii aiw ays be imputed to some
filing lef, pardonable than a mere mistake
but that tiie manufacture of whiikey is noi
lrrived a: maturity, I am bold enough tc
declare, and dccaflon requires that thefaf
hould not reft oil "afTertion alone.
Ardent spirits, distilled particularly iron
or peaches, made in perfection, ant
kept to a proper age, unites mildness witl
Itrength, in a higher degree, and even a fre<
use of it, so prepared, is less pernicious thai
perhaps any other spirit. This fuperiorit;
indeed, is known to but few ; for the li
quor, in that state, is rarely so be met with
and even where*l have seen some iuftance
of its being preserved in the belt' manner
(till as it had the name of being merewhif
key, it d:d not meet with encouragement
except occaiionally for a rarity ; when it i
to be met with at the tables of the wealthy
I call upon the contrivers and promoter
of the excise upon whiikey, to inform th<
public how many barrels of it have bcei
consumed annually in Philadelphia, or an;
of the great towns in the state. Let th<
gentlemen who travel to Pittfburg, or ii
any different route, declare how often, na;
it ever, they call for whiikey in a tavern.—
Let the judges, who ride the circuit to tht
remotest counties, communicate their ob
fervations of he demand for whiskey, ii
preference to other liquors. AH, all wil
tefiify, as with one voice, that the choict
is almost invariably in favor of rum, ever
though that ipirit is generally of the lowei!
quality and cheapest price upon these roads,
although the whiikey is more than tne hal;
cheaper than rum, in proportion to the com
parative itrength. 1 have admitted, thai
whiskey is capable cf being nrar.iffaCtuvet
to great perfection ; but that it has not at
tained to its maturity, is evident stum the
discouragement undet which it labours ;
no manul.'ct ifre can be in that stale that
does not enjoy a preference in general con
sumption; when, tt.erefoi'e, the very name
of whilkey excites difgUtt, to the palate of
those by wLdfe example tils prevailing taste
of the country is formed ; when it is co;i
funitd chiefly by the labouring'poor,' and'
often Comparatively despised even by them;
i'ureiy; were there no other facis than thete'
to influence our opinions, we ..a.inot heii
ta:e, in fpitetif the ministerial dogma, to
conclude, that the manufacture is uot arri
ved at perfection ; and that, therefore, this
pretence, lor. rendering it the iblirary titb
jeit of internal excise, is infuit.ng and de
lusory to a free people.
The Secretary-has the honor of being dif
tinguiiived a-, a patron of manufactures : by
comparing his leport on that fubjecf, witii
tliereport.upon which I have animad . erced,
it appears, ti.at in his opinion, tiie only juf-.
tifiable ground 1 , for exdiing the manufac
tures of home produce, is the degree of
perfection at which they have arrived. I am
orry the subject he has felectetlis incon
liitent with the premises that he has e.ia
bliliicdr
The American nails, falling axes, and in ge
neral the manufatlure of all tanning utenhis.
&c. excel ihofe which are imported tiom Eu
rope, and boots, shoes, woolens, indigo, pot
alh, &c. are nianutattured in the United Sites
in much greater pe; lection than whilky ; there
fore it is clear, that upon the Seaetaiy'j plan,
thcle articles ought to have preceded tii /t ,;quor
as subjects of excite. Far, however, aih I fiOM
thinking that they fnould ever be exciicd, or
that the people or the United Slates, would luh
m.t to an oppieffio»foenoia\ous,
But.lhe fourth objection of t'/ie petitioners,
how offers itfeltto coniideiapou, viz. '1 hat die
Cieile law checks induilry,. ancj iute'ifcies with
the buhncis of diflilling.— A-aififl this
alio, the Iccretaiy furmlhcs the; members of the
house with arguments (Ice Report, pay; 7.) —A
thorough knowledge oi the lacts reipecting the
manufacture which is the subjeCt of this law,
allords the moll unanlwerable lepiy to his argu
ments againli this objettion, therefore the ilate
nients 1 have already made, have anticipated "
muchthat might be offered on the lubjett. it is
proper, however, tp .emaik, that the boGnefs
o£ dihiibng Ipuits tiom grain, it-, this country,
is my a tiade or profeflion, as ;t is in Europe,
nor as the dihiihng rum from Inolafles, in fonie
parts oi the United States; the making of flour,
01 brewing of beer, though they are both prepa
red from the produce ot the-foil, are much more
fe pa rate trades or profeffions, than the diHitlmg
01 v. hifky. is a trade chiefly carried on
in towns, and the farmer cariies his
to get it manufactured into flour, but the whis
ky he diflills at home. But according to the
terms prescribed in the excise law, he inuft
keep an exatt account each (lay of the quantity
oteach k.nd'produced, where one kind is con
verted into another, and explain by biief notes,-
thewing in proper columns rhe relulis of those
kinds of Ipuits which are ultimately to be pro
poled for lale ; and alio how he hath disposed
of it : this lallobligation feeinsto requne an ac
count of w hat he 01 his ianuiy hath drank- or.
ot that with which he may have treated hisneigh
bois, who have vihted'him : and all this he mult
tefiify by a solemn appeal, for the liuth thereof,
Unto Almighty God. '-The fiills are attended
ltWietimes by the mafler and foinetunes by the
miliiels ot the house, lomelimes by one child
an d loinetimes by another; and such as cannot,
or do not choole to attend them thus, employ a
mail tor the pu*pole ; but it has nevci been an
enqi iiiy whether the man to be employed can
wnui his name, much 1-fs whether hecankecp
accu; vie books. As ihe lecretary ieems to be
\ery 1 11-ir.loinKd about this bufincfs, he proba
bly tlx "jUi.ht that a pcrlon could 1101 be fit to dif
tilwhrlky, unlels he was accurate a scholar as
the dc tks in his oikce. Where difliiiation is a
tegiilai inanufattuic, as it is with the rum difiil
-1 nes, ithis may bethecafe; but a peilon may
make w'hifky veiy well, who hath never been
taught tc 1 write his name. But fuppofinj; the
tarn,cis 10 make the conducting of then fhlls a
iiionopc, ly to those only who have been taught
book-keeping. that the (wearing pan may be
pioviaca lor, what is he to gain by it ? why he
13 to be obliged to pay a thud, or between that
and a fourth, ot the puce of what he Hills in
cafii, whether be drinks it tu his laboi, pays his
tradclmeii, or barteis it .lor oihei pioperty ;
and if he diflills any grain for his neighbors,
whicn he commonly does, he n.ull coilett the
excile tor what he so drills, and thus mult
commence deputy to an excileman's deputy,
without leceiving any of the peiqiiifnes. But
this is not all : the diiiiiller will be n-der the
neceflity ot fpanng hits neighbor as long as the
aw oohges the cxcilemnn to Ipare ortiufl him ;
ut v j c 11 pay-day comes, in a country where
prompt pa> ment is not iin fafhion, and where the
means in latj ate not to be procured, what an
lticrea e in buflnels for juflices of the peace and
ccnllables will this arrangement cteate ? what a
acnhceot pioperty by the f le of eliates and ef
fects taken 111 execution ? even the man who had
the good fortune ,0 fell his whisky for calh,
and ,s obliged to give so treat a portion of the
puce to government, out of all the luiplus of
his labor, or of what, moll probably, he cvsht
to pay away to othe.s for assisting' him m his
-abor T will Jo it with regret.
But further, the owner of a flill h under th&neceflity of giving security at the difcrepon of an
exciseman, with whom he would not perhaps be
feenin iociety, and to whose d:lcretion he would
not tiu(l his dog, for such mull be employed
when the law is fq difag-reeable to men of prin
cipleand chara£ter. And by further regulations,
di6la cd by the sagacious fecreraiy, the stills mud
be entered on record in the excileman's office,
whether ihev be defigried for lale, for diflilling,
or other domestic uses, under the penalty of tor
feiting the propeity. I ask, will not this be an
tx poft-facto law with refpoft to thole stills thai
are already in polfeffion ? is it not inconsistent
witn the constitutional right of holding and dil
pofit.g ofprivaic pioperty ? but this is not all,
the secretary has conceived the idea, and has
been L;old enough to recommend it to the le
gislature, to ohli f e the freemen of the United
States to be feivants to the excifcrnen, in affifl
ing them to measure the stills. or pay a com
pensation. no doubt at the discretion of the ex
cifcman too (fee page 20). Doe; the feceetary
indeed conceive that he is dittaung laws to a na
tion of Haves. ? or has he forgot that we are the
fame people who, not twenty years ago, with
the pride of freemen, made the awful appeal tc
arms, rather than fubrnit to fiiackles less odious
and Jess degrading thati an excise ? is it noi
enough for him to oppress a dcfeiving part ol
the community, without them ? I will
los waile time with arguments on this fubjeft;
the people of the United S ares will never bt
fcrvanu at discretion to excifcrnen, nor to any
other cflicial chara&ers, no, not even to the
fecewrv hi rule If.
Havng honeilly dated the situation and cir
cumflances of the difiiilers of home produce,
and the buuhens and reftri£lious itnpofed or
them by the excise law, and also those about tt
be impoftd, I now appeal to every difinterefl
ed citizen, 1 appeal to the members of the fede
ral legiHature, I appeal to all not blinded, with
prejudice, nay, I appeal to the fecrerary of the
trealury himfelf, in those moments when he
diveffs himfelf of the proje£hng financier, te
judge whether the excise law does not discourage
honefl and necessary indullry, and interfere with
the bufmefs of diflilling, and whether the pro
posed regulations are not an intolerable in-full
to the feelings of freemen. I appeal to hus
bandmen who live by agriculture in moic hap
py lituations than the western woods ; I ast
them with fenous anxiety, how they would fub
nut to such burthens and rei.ri&ions on the pro
duce of their farms, prepared in such a mannei
as to be mod suitable for their comfort and pro
fit : if they countenance such ineafures, at fc
early a period of our national exiftence 7 to bt
dealt out -to their less fortunate brethren, le j
them also beware, for their day-is coining.
Free citizens ought to be giiarded against the
most diHant approaches of such arrange men.'s,
as not only would in a parual manner diminifl
their property, but sap the Very foundations o!
liberty and virtue. Let it be remembered, thai
the most effe&unl way to enlure the general pro
gress of such mischievous measures, is to attack,
in the full instance, such manufactures as art
likely to be supported but bv few advocates, ir
the public councils of the nation, immediate!)
interfiled in patronizing them. Remote evils
in the political as well as physical world, are toe
apt to be neglctted or delpsied ; but the wounc
which produces the fligbteff mortification of tht
extremities, extending insensibly unto the othei
part?, contaminates and at length deOroys the
whole fun&ions of the heart, it is a lule, veri
fied by experience, that when any local part o
a nation conceive themselves to be opprelfed b)
the government, they either fuccefsfully refif
the tyranny, as the United States have done in
their revolt fiom Great-Britain, or what is more
common, thevaidthe firong arm of oppreflion
in laying burdens equally heavy on their fellow
citizens.
It will, no doubt, he thought that my (late
mcnts, on this lubj< are too much detailed
anp the fiTme facts put into too many points o
view ; I lurely would have thought so myfelf 0!
luch a performance, before the excise law waj
ena£ied, and particularly before the report o
the secretary on that fubjeft ; but when I ob
lerve, not only such a total ignorance of the
slate of this domestic manufa&ure displayed ir:
that report, bur an elaborate exercise of ingenu
ity to nnflead those who have not a peifona
knowledge of the circumstances and the fa£ls ;
and when I fee that too many in Congrcfs de
pend upon the ininifter s statements, a» if they
were records whose veracitv could not be con
troveited, embrace his principles as if they were
evangelically just, and have recourse to his ar
guments as to authorities moftfacred ; to be mi
nute is neceflaiy to the cftabhfhment of truth,
and is at once the duty and the apology of him
who undertakes the arduous talk.
SIDNEY.
PITTSBURGH, .April 21.
Saturday last failed from this place, with
a detachment of men to prote£fc the settle
ment at Galiopolis, lieutenant Demler of
the 2d United States regiment.
ThurfiJay last arrived here ' from Fort
Franklin, lieutenant of the lft Uni
ted States regiment, vv'ith a party of Sene
ca Xgdiani. Icout oil our frontiers with
the spies and tix months levies.
We are happy to contradict, in part, the
paragraph under the Pittfourgh head, in
©ur last, giving an account oi the murder
of 20 perfous by the Indians, as from well
authenticated accounts it appears that only
one woman and Mr. Edgar were killed.
Wc are enabled to inform our readers
From good authority that captain Paul who
is stationed on the south weft frontier of
Walhington county', Pennfyivania, has erec
ted a very strong block-house on the Dhd
kard branch of Whelen creek, a little above
Mr. Ryerfon's mills, from %vhence he
makes almost daily cxciirfions over the
neighbouring ground,; by his vigilance,
•ind the co-operation of his subaltern offi
cers, who have nearly completed two other
slock houses, one on his left, the other on
air. right, each at a few miles distance, it i?
expected he wijl completely thwart the
Jefigns of any fmail parties of the savages
:hat may approach that part of our fron
:ier.
Besides those Indians which carrifed off
md scalped the two boys mentioned in our
ast, there are evident signs of several small
xirties having prowled along the fouth
•veft frontier of Washington and Ohio
:ounties, particularly on Whelen, weft of
.he Pennsylvania boundary.
Friday the 13th instant, arrived here the
Western Experiment, Captain Nicholfon.
She is bound to New-Orleans, from thence
with a cargf) to Philadelphia; was built
about tixty miles up the Monougahela, bur
then about 60 tons, and draws 8 feet of
water. This Is the firft. vessel constructed
011 this branch of the Ohio intended to na
vigate the ocean.
PHILADELPHIA.
May 3, 1792.
Monday and Tuesday the Indian Chiefs
and Warriors of the Six Nations (except a
few who, it is said, are going to the west
ward on fpecijil business) took their depar
ture from this city.
Value of Goods, Wares and Merchan
dize exported from each State.
Dels• Cts.
New-Hamp(hire - 142,858. 61
Massachusetts - 51
Rhode-H'land - 4-0,131. >,
Connecticut • - 710,340. 5s
New-York - 2,516,197.
New-Jersey - 2 7,957- 7{
Pennsylvania - 2,931,624. 21
Delaware - 119,840. 6c
Maryland - 2,i93-.355- 7?
Virginia - - 3,131,227- 5{
North-Carolina - 524,548. 3^
South-Carolina - 1,866,021, 6.
Georgia - - 491,4-2. 8i
Dollars 17,571,551. 4;
Two Quarterly Returns from South-Caroline
and fumefma.ll Ports a. rt dfcient.
Treasury Department, Apr I 12th, 1792.
Tl-NCH COXE, Affijlant Secretary,
Accounts from Nantucket mention tlit
arrival there of several whalemen frorr
the Brazils, after fuccefsful voyages. The)
bring favorable accounts of the whalemen
in general on that coast.
Monday, the Ift of May, the foundatior
of the new theatre in Chefnut-Street, was
laid, and as every article for the bnildui;
is prepared, the work will be carried o:
with the ntmoft spirit, and the House be
ready to open by the beginning of Novem
ber next.
We are informed by the mate of the lliif
Citizen, arrived at this port from St. An
dero, ihat three sailors, one by the name
of Jackson, aud the other by the name 01
Chiirchwell, the other name unknown
who failed from Philadelphia the 12th o
December last, in theTerefa, Roderiguez
bound to Spain, were to be executed in ;
few days, for having murdered the Cap
tain anc! crew of the said brig, and endea
coring to go off, were detefled in the Ba;
if Biscay, and brought into St. Andero.
The Trustees of the TJniverfity of Penn
"ylvania, have lately organized that inftitn
:ion, agreeably to the late ait of Aifembly
md have appointed the following gentie
nen to fill the different profefforlhips.
John Ewitig, D. D. Provost, and Profef
or of natural Philosophy.
Andrews, D. D. Vice ProvotT, anc
Profeflbr of moral Phitofophy, oeconomicS
md politics.
Jame„ Davidfon, A. M. Profeffor of the
Latin and Greek languages.
Robert Patterfon, A. M. ProfefTor o:
nathematics.
William Rogers, D- D. ProfefTor of En
;li/h, and the i>el!es letters.
Henry Beimuth, D.D- Profeffor of the
3erman ar.d Oriental language".
William Shippen, M. D. profeffor o!
Anatomy, Surgery, and Midwifery.
AdamKuhn, M. D. Profeffor of the prac
ice of Phylic.
Benjamin Rufii, M. D. Profeffor of tlu
nftitutes and clinical medicine.
James Hutchinfon, M. D. Profeffor 0;
;hemiftry..
Samuel Powel Griffiths, M. D- Proses
or of Materia Medica.
Caspar Wiftar, M. D. Adjunct Profeffoi
>f Anatomy, Surgery, and Midwifery.
Benjamin Smith Barton, M. D. ProfelTo!
)f Natural history and Botany.
James Wilson, LL D. Profeffor of Law
Extraßof a letter from Poit-au-Princc, April 7.
" For a fortnight past, the troubles have
been every clay getting worse and worse.
There is a continual scene of misery and
distress here.—The women and children
are obliged to fly every night on board the
veflels for refuge. Ail trade'is totallyTtag
llated, and notliing but cruelty and barba
rity has gone forward. For three vreeks
palt, I l.ave only been able to procure two
hogfheadt of fujjar ; not a single hogfliead
of molalles can be got at anyprie'e. Great
quantities of produce of every kind have
been destroyed in the country by the >e
groesand Mulattoes. Sugar fells at 14 dol
lars per ioolb. I cannot advise you to fend
any vcifels here with any cargo whatsoever
until some alteration takes place. The
white inhabitants are leaving the island as
fact as poffi'ole, as there is no fafety either
for person or property."
Some folks are very angry whenever anv man,
i»ho is not entitled under their own banners,
Tpeaks or writes about the administration of the
= cyernment. They immediately accuse him ol
in attack upon the gover nmentiffelf and brand
him as an enemy to the Federal Conflitution,
Hid (laughable to tell an arijiocrat\ Suchun
candid charges are intended as to many gags tc
(lop the niftutlis of gainfayers, that the parties
interelled may be at liberty to cut and carve ir
silence, and to new-model and melamoipholt
he government as they please, by gradually pru
ning away every part that favours too much o
!;:ury republicanilm. But those men, although
deficient in candor, .are not deficient in craft ;
"or, having found that the heavy artillery of Pub
icola and his corps made too much
raised a geneialalarm, they have changed then
weapons, and adopted the use of light ariows.
hat fly unseen, and tlrike without report. —
I'liey now confine their political lucubrations tc
lark, mysterious hints, and short, fentent ou:
lphorifms, calculated to fink unperceived intc
he niinds of unwary readers, and insensibly
iroduce the fame effeils, in corrupting the prin
iples of the body political, as are produced by
he flight infection conveyed on the point of a
ancet, in .corrupting ,the whole mass of fluid:
n the human body.
" The majority (fays[a late writer) has beci
terpetually oppefid oy a /arty, mho while they ar
ema*kablefei their clamour, have neverdifilinguijh
d themfclves by the wisdom of any plans which the
\ave offered asfubjlitutes for what they oppose ; a
■ather, it may be said they have never propofei
my.'"
Clamorous as they were, they have beei
jlenced. And if they did not bring for
srard any ftibflitutes for what they oppof
:d, it was entirely owing to the laudable
sxertions of their opponents, who drown
?d the voices of this clamorous party, b;
glamoring in 1 a lender yet, an,
let a louderJlrain,' inpraife of their own fyf
:ems, every one inferibed with a noli me tan
%ere, in legible characters, which he tha
■an might read.
'' It is a poor compliment on the judgment of th
People, and a republican government, to fnd saul
•uith the decisions of the majority."
Then it is a poor compliment to arepub
ican government, ever to repeal any law
or eveTy law, however unwise, arbitrary
>r oppreffi-ve, had originally the fantfion o
he majority It was a poor compliment ti
he people of America, to secure their in
dependence, because. previous to the reva
iution, a majority were in favour of sub
million to the British government.
'' It is a republican sentiment, that the people ar
''le obligees, when public trvfls are faithfully exe
tutcd."
lt_is a sentiment equally republican, tha
when a man presents himfelfas candidate
tor an office, is paid for his trouble, anc
sworn to the faithful performance of hi
duty, here is a complete bargain made : anc
in cafe of mal-performance on his part
the people who employ and pay him, have £
right not only to complain, but to punish ;
whereas, when he has done his heft, he ha;
done but that which was his duty.
" It is a monarchical trait in politics, when publii
officers are obliged to confder their own interef anc
that of the people as difimß."
It is downright defpotifiu, when a pub 1
>U~ officer, drawing an arbitary line of fepa
ratitiC- between his own interefls and those
of the people, enriches and aggrandize;
himfelf by cheating and betraying his em
ployers, and then boldly disclaims all re
sponsibility.
" To get in debt is undoubtedly one of the 'rightl
f man'-—it is not a new doßrine that never to
pay is another—hence the railing againfi the fund
ingfyflem."
To buy a piece of paper for two and six
pence, is alio one of the rights of man : to
fell it again for twenty /hillings if you can,
i: another. Hence all the railing againfi
the tppofers of the funding fyftern.
" Public exigencies prejfing—
Public debt's a public blessing !
But secure, there nothing worse is :
Public debts arepublic curses /"
Public debts are public curses
In soldiers' hands ! then nothing worse is !
In Speculators' hands encreafing,
Public debt's } public blefiing '.
An accidental event occurred at Ea!:y.
vaily in the county of Donega', a (hort
time ago, which seems to open a discovery
in Physic, equally wonderful and happy.
The wife of Arthur O'Ponnel had been
tor fix yesrs in a (fate of outrageous mad
ness, and was given over by the Faculty:—
One evening The iouud mean:- to loose her
felf from her bonds, and to escape from her
confinement to'he fta-fhore, where in an
instant, she endeavoured to put an e "id to
!ier existence, by plunging from a rock into
:heoccan. Very fortunately (he was imrnq
liateiy miffed bv her e'deit son, and loU
owed' by him : juftas (he had thrown her
elf from the rock he arrived, and being an
jxcellent swimmer, plunged in to her a(-
iftance. It was however near fi'teen mi
lutes before he could fee his unhappy pa
ent ;'but about the expiration of that time
le observed the body floating among some
ocks which projected from the mainland,
,vith some difficulty he reached it, and
,vith great labor swam it to the (hore, ap
)arentiy dead. The prescriptions of the
humane Society were readily applied, and
ifter an interval of two hours, signs of
eturning animation appeared ; the process
ivas continued, ancTin about twelve hours .
the Patient was not only restored to iite,
jut, what is more wonderful, to the fuSeft
noffeffion of her natural reason is
[low perfectly well, and to the great help
ind happiness of her family, does all the
Juties of her domestic station. [ Lon.Pap.
i, -
PRICE or STOCKS.
Six per cenrs, per - ao/6 l'f
r l hree ditto - - I*/
Deferred ix ditto, - 1
1 inal settlements, >$/
[-2 share Bank Stcck 35 to 40 per cent prelum.
MtTEOItOIOGICAL ObsE RVATIONS.
April, ij9 ? -
D. H Bar. Ther.Wmd. iH'eath.
Monday, 23. 7 29. 939 j Fair.
2 29. 9 ' do.
Tucfday, 24. 7 30. o 47 W- Fair.
- 30. o 7° — do.
Yedmjday, 25.7 ~307~1 55 SW. Fax-.
2 30. O 58 S. Rain.
fhurfday, -6. 7 29. 7 50 N.E. Ram.
2 29. 8 51 do. do.
Friday, 27. 7 ~3oT~o 5° N .W. Fair.
230 o 69 do. do.
Saturday, 28. 7 29. 9 52 C<d m - louiy.
1 29, 8 2 64 N- do.
Sundaj, 29. 7 29- 9 5 53 jN.N.E. Fair.
2 30. 5 60 I do. ICioudy.
H'ajhin'ton, in the Territory of Columbia.
A PR EMI U M
OF 500 dollars, or a medal of that value,
at the option of the party, will be giv
•n by the Commillioners of the Federal
buildings to the person who, before the
ifteenthday of July next, (hall produce to
hem the most approved plan, if adopted by
hem, for a Preiident's house to be erected
n this city. The site of the building, if
;he artist will attend to it, will of course
nfluence the afpe£t and outline of his plan,
mdit's destination will point out to him
:he number, size, and distribution of the
ipartments. It will be a recommendation
jf any plan, if the central part of it may be
letached and erected for the present, with
he appearance of a complete whole, and
>e capable of admitting the additional parts,
n future, if they (hall be Wanting. Draw
ngs will be expected of the ground plats,
;levations of each front, and fettions
hrough the building in filch directions as
nay be necessary to explain the internal
truiture ; and an eltimate of the cubic feet
)f brickwork, compoling the whole mass of
he walls. The Commissioners.
Washington, in the Territory of Columbia.
A PREMIUM
OF a lot in this City to be designated by
impartial judges and 500 dollars ; or a
nedal of chat value, at the option of the
>arty, will be given by the Commissioners
>f the Federal Buildings, to the perfoil,
.vho, before the fifteenth day of July i~92,
hall produce to them the molt approved
>lan, if adopted by them, for a Capitol to
>e erected in this city, and 250 dollars, or
l medal for the plan deemed next in merit
o the one they (hall adopt. The building
obe of brick, and to contain the following
ipartments, to wit. Suffident t0 «
1 conference room / , . £
room for the Re- a ~; S.|
preventatives j P erfons l S|
\ lobby or antichamber to tjie latter, f g <u
\ Senate room of uoofquare feet
area. / v,
'in antichamber or lobby to the last. j
2 rooms of 600 square feet area, each, for
:ommittpe rooms and clerks offices, to be
if half the elevation of the former. Draw
ngs will be expected of the ground plats,
slevations of each front, and feftions
:hrough the building in such directions as
may be neceflary to explain the internal
structure, and an estimate of the cubic f«et
of brickwork composing the whole mass of
the walls. The Commissioners.frbund beingA-ery mellow, U was harrowed along
thf furrow, with a large brake harrow of thirty
feeth j winter barley was then Town and harrowed
in. The last winter was wet and open, and
therefore severe on the grain, and sct5 ct this field
turned out better th:-n most in the neighborhood.
From my observations on this crop, I believe that
"rr i» better hufoandry to cross-plough, as in expe
riment No. J. than to trust to the harrow alone.
To continue clover more than three years is not
profitable j the fourth yea;'of the clover was full
of weeds.
Experitntpt 3.
Field eight acres ; foil clay and wet
corn, rye, corn, buck-wheat, is bad hulbandrv,
except in the present cafe, intended meiely to
make manure—Coming in pofleliion of a large
farm, every part of which was exhausted, I could
only manure a part of it time, and there
fore it was good managc-mrfk -to procure any pro
duce, for the fake of cattle to make
manure. November, the buck-wheat
flubble was ploughed, and in April, 1788, the
field was covered with fifteen loads of dung to the
acre, and sown with spring barley ; the crop
twenty bufliels to the acre. After two plough
ings, winter barley was sown, which did not pro
duce more than ten buiheis to the acre. Imme
diately after harvest put in buck-wheat, clover
and timothy j in April last iix bufhcls of gypsum
per acre, was strewed over the young clover j at
harvest the produce three tons of good hay to the
acre.
Experiment 4.
Field fix acres ; foil clay, with a small quan
tity of gravel. In April, 1790, this field was
sown with clover feed and strewed with fix buih'
els of gypsum to the acre on the young wheat 3
the clover at present looks well.
Experiments 5, 6, and 7,
Were made on a light loam, to discover the
best preparatory crop te> grain,, The result was
greatly in favor of the potatoes.
Experiment 8.
Field two acres j foil, loam with some clay.—
In November, 2757, the clover lea was ploughed
eight inches deep, in April, 1788, it was well
harrowed and sown with spring barley the crop
▼ery poor, evidently owisg to the want of foil.
Winter fallowed and in 1759, was planted with
potatoes. This year it produced two valuable
crops, one of flax, and the other turnips.
Experiment 9.
Field one acre j foil, loam with some clay.—
Jn May, 17S8, the clover lea was covered with
stable manure, and ploughed under five inches
deep j planted potatoes under every third furrow j
the crop at firft appeared promising, but after
wards grass took place, and the foa not being
rotted, the plough could not be used, Wefides the
grass came ap In the interstices between the po
tatoes in the rows j at harvest the potatoes were
numerous, but so small as not in general to be
merchantable. I am perfe&ly fatisficd that to
have a good crop of any vegetable, it is neceflary
to have the ground in the most meliorated state
poflible.
Experirr.cr.t 10.
Field ten acres j foil, loam. In 1789, af
ter having feeurrd the tops and blades of the
corn j and the corn being taken to the barn in
the hu/ks, the fta!ks were cut at the ground and
taken into the barn-yard to make manure. The
field was ploughed the firft week in December,
and in May, 1790, ploughed a second time, and
eight acres planted with potatoes. In Odtober
the potatoes were gathered, and the vines being
colle&ed with a light harrow were hauled into the
barn-yard—the ground was then ploughed and
sown with wheat, which at present looks well.
The remaining two acres was covered with dung
and ploughed twice during the summer to prepare
it for wheat which was sown at the fame time
with the potatoe ground. This experiment, in
tended to discover whether potatoes, or a clean
summer fallow was the best preparative to a grain
crop. At this time the potatoe ground has the
best appearance. I examined some of the plants
of wheat whilst in the feed leaf, and found their
roots to extend fix and eight inches ; an evident
mark of the advantages of deep ploughing, and ha
ving your ground in good tilth.
Experiment 11.
Field fix acres j foil, light loam. The clover
produced two good crops, in 1788, one
crop and pasture, in 1789, excellent pasture for
cattle, Iheep and hogs, until September, when it
was ploughed eight inches deep, and after being
well harrowed it was sown with winter barlev—
the crop twenty-five bufiieb to the acre. Imme
diately after harvest the stubble was ploughed un
der, and in O&ober was again ploughed, and
sown with wheat—the crop has a very promising
appearance.
Experiment 12.
Field one acre ; foil, loam, a little wer, with a
clay bottom. In 1788, produced two excellent
crops of hay, and nearly as good the year follow,
jng. In O&ober, the clover lea was ploughed
four inches deep, the sod crumbling to pieces be
fore the plough ; after being well harrowed it was
sown with winter barley 5 a wet, open winter, de
tfroyed so much of the crop, that I was induced
io plough the ground in April, and to sow spring
barley and clovcr—the barley as good as most this
4'eafon—the clover looks well.
Experiment 13.
A field of the size and quantity of the last expe
riment, and treated in a similar manner, except
that it was sown with wheat—the crop was not
injured by the winter, and produced twenty bufh
cls to the acre. Wheat appears a hardier grain
than barley, and therefore /hould have a prefer
ence where a farmer it uncier the necsflky offow
ing late.
Experiment 14.
Field fix acres ; foil, wet loam. After remo
ving the corn-ftaiks into the barn-yard, winter
fallowed the ground, and in April 1789, ploughed
in twenty loads of dung to the acre, for spring bar
ley. During the summer 1 added three acres of
ftcfti land taken in from an adjoining wood, and
which had been cleared the preceding winter.
Soil the fame as the above fix acres, covered with
a rich black mould j ploughed this new ground
I'ircc t;.r■;:» Septeir.Ler, the old and new
ground were sown the fame day, with wheat ; du
ring the autumn both crops appeared promiiing j
ihe following fpting the three acre.® was almost to
tally dtftruyed by a long wet winter. At harvest
the old ground produced twenty-live bufiiels to the
acre} the new ground not fix. This field having
an under stratum of*ciav, and the roots of the
uees preventing a proper depth of the ploughing,
jccafioned the water toftagnate about the roots cf
the wheat—io the ojd fieid a de;>th of plowing of
right inches prevented this mifchier. The prin
cipal objedl of this experiment was to discover,
whether old exhausted fields, under proper ma
nagement, would not produce equal to the bert
new ground. In this instance the wet season was
3jainit the experiment.
We may observe, with great truth, that the un
rertainty »f th* seasons, and the length of time
equired to make agricultural experiments, renders
t difficult to make them with accuracy. In a
looting and pursuing the rotation of crops, found
■d upon the experiments now recited, it will be
leceffary to attend ftri<fl 1v to forne points on which
he success of the rotation depends.
jft. To winter fallow, for the spring crops,
sloughing at least eight inches deep.
2d. To cover your potato and flax ground witli
wenty loads of your best manure to the acre, tc
)e ploughed into the ground in Aprll ? and or,
Wanting your potatoes, to put your half decayed
:crnftalJcs, or any other trash in the furrows.
Jn breaking up your clover lea to be at
ent:ve to turning the grass sod as much as pof
jble on its back. 'I his is best effected by trench
•toughing, one plow following another in the fame
rack : by this method there is fuff.cient nou
iHiment provided for rhe present crop, and th<
od becomes rotten before next season, for the fu
ure crop.
As the natural flrength of the foil is exhausted,
»v constant cropping, without manure, and as the
iorfe , cows, and other stock, which any farm
an maintain within itfelf, will not actor d a fufii
iency of manure for an annual supply to the
vhole farm, we have therefore been induced to
onfider the proposition of your very ufeful society,
n its mod extensive sense, as intended so acquire
1 knowledge of a rotation of crops calculated, to
ifford-—
1 ft. The greatest number of profitable crops—
2d. The greatest qaantity of fpdder to winter
rattle—
3d. The greatest length of time between manu
ing the fame field—and
4th. Such a variety of crops as may not inter
ete with one another, but by coming in regulai
uccefllon may afford the farmer and his family
:he most constant employ.
No one of the rotation of crops, which I have
flntioried will answer these objects, and therefore
:annot merit the attention of the fociety.—Unin
formed and destitute of proper guides, I made
:hefe experiments to discover the truth j and as
:hey have led to the knowledge of a rotation of
rrops, which is perfe&lv fads factory to myfelf, J
thought it neceiiary to submit the whole to youi
consideration, to enable you to judge of the foun
dation of that rotation which J now offer.
Rotation cf Crcps,
I. Indian corn j 2, potatoes and flax ; 3, wheatj
;|, winter barley, and after the barley, buckwheat,
with clovcr and timothy j 5, clover, two crops ft
; 6, clover, one crop, for hay and palture ; 7j
pasture j 8, wheat j 9, winter bailey.
This plan constitutes my present mode of farm
ng and the success attending it, leaves no room
;o doubt of its superior advantage. To pursue ik
:o the greatest polfißle profit, within the abihtj
)f one family—the farm ihould confiftof 180 acres
jf land, fubjett to thi? rotation, besides woodland,
srehard, &c. &c. A farm thus regulated would
produce annually—
20acrcs of Indian corn.
10 acres of potatoes.
10 acres of flax'.
40 acres of wheat.
40 acres of winter barley.
20 acres of clover, two crops.
20 acres of clover, one crop, and pasture until
November.
20 acres of clover pasture, until September.
10 acres of buckwheat with clover on the bar
ey ftubbh'.
Indian corn is a valuable crop on account of
ts grain : it is also valuable on account of the
/cry nourishing food afforded by its tops, cut as
ye-ftraw, and mixed with potatoes. I have
ong been in the practice of making potatoes a
principal food for my horses and cattle. Our
lieep and hogs will fatten rapidly on them, for
he latter they should be boiled. P'lax conltitutes
1 valuable article too much neglected by our
rountry. An annual produce of eighty acres of
wheat and barley, and forty acres of the best clo
ser and timothy hay, out of one hundred and
eighty acres, under cultivation, must be efteem
•d good farming. This produce would enable a
armer to winter fifty head of stock, besides sheep j
jy which, and a proper system of barn-yard ma
lagemeot, he might every year make five k'an-
Ired loads of good manure. I have fou**,d great
»dvant,ige in keeping the milch covrs, hogs and
heep, in the yard, during the fummcr j fome
imes giving them dovcr, cut green ; and at all
:imes, during ihe year, bringing home every kind
Df trash which will make manure ; on this ac
:ount the corn-stalks and potato-vines are very
ufeful. Leaving a large furface of these sub
stances exposed, during the winter, in the barn
yard, the cold would prevent them from becom
ing manure j therefore, the firft week in Decem
ber, or earlier, if necessary, the yards fhouid be
:leaned up, and the half-decayed weeds and trash,
?f every k;nd, put in a heap near the field yeu in
tnd to manote. I have been particular on the
übjed of manure, because the success of the ro
ation depends on a full supply of it.
Turnips, rye and oatfi, arc not mentioned, be
aufe the severity of our winters render the firft
in impropercrop for the farmer, hefides they are
>y no means equal to the potato for feeding of
attle. Rye and oats are not of equal value with
'•'heat and corn, and therefore a preference is
;iven to the latter.
One object of a rotation of crops, is t.->giv<
conitanc ai d steady employ to the farmer and In
family, without fullering one business to inter
fere with another. 'I lie rotation popoled wil
answer this intention. Flax, corn, and pota
toes, will occupy the monrh* of April and Ma;
ihe firft hay harvest, the month of June j bar
ley and wheat in July j barley is natural, earlic,
than wheat, and being sown earlier, it may b.
got out of the harvefl: field before t e wheat is si
to be cut. After harvest comes the feeding U>
buck-wheat and grass j the 1 cond hay harvest
ieed:r.g for barley and wheat j winter following
and during the severity ot winter, trelhing ou
grain.
On account of the time and flock, requirei t
conduit a farm, fubjedt to the rotation of crop
how propoled, it mud appear evident, that it i
not calculated for a poor tenantry, but lor an in
dependent yeomanry—such as our American fur
mers ought to be—gentlemen cultivating thei
own ellates, and living under the protection of
just and enlightened government. In this fitua
tion the indultrious husbandman ploughs his fie IJ
with pleasure and alacrity, well knowing tha
after giving to the government a fixed and cercaii
j roportion of the net produce|of his farm, he v> il
be protected in the full enjoyment of the remain
der. But under a government directed by th
wretched principles of fifcaJity, and deriving it
revenue from a blind and oppreflive system of in
direct taxation—agriculture mult languilh, am
particularly so, when the free Tale of the preduc
ji the laud isreltritited by commercial regulation
So intimately is the agriculture of a counts
:on netted with its government, that it always as
loidi the best criterion of its excellence.
Air. Poivre, a celebrated French philofophe
and traveller, after giving a particular accoun
of the Itate of agriculture in Africa and Asia
fays, addrefling himfelf to his readers, " call t<
mind what 1 have said refpetting the laws, cuf
torns, aid manners of the different nations o
Africa and Asia ; where I have examined th
liate of agriculture—Compare one nation with a
no,her, judge if trie unhappy MaJabars, withou
property, and fubjeft to the arbitrary will of
despot j if a people of Haves always bending un
der the iron sceptre of the king of Siam j if th
nati.n of Malayeans for ever agitated and op
prelled by feodal laws j can, even whilst pofleflin
the belt lands in the world, enjoy an agricultur
as flourilhing as the people of China, govcrne
as one family, and fubrnitting to the laws c
reason. —This fame enlightened traveller fu.
ther observes— (t I will then assert with const
dence, that in every country in the world, th
state of' agriculture depends I'olely upon the eita
blifhed laws and customs of the country."*—
Agricultural societies have long been tftiblifhu
in the different parts of France—premiu;ns hav
b*en offered by those societies to all who excel
ed in cultivating the ground j and yet, owing t
the nature of that government, and the difljpate
manners of the court, by which the whole couii
try was infetted—agricu Iture has been for man
veais in a langui/hing lituation. That kingdom
which under the administration of the great Su.
ly, exported grain to its neighbors, lince hi
time has frequently wanted bread.
Where is the encouragement to agriculture I
this country, opprdfed with the mod auinou
lyitem of indirect taxation and coTirnerciai
lations, and overwhelmed with lcenes of paraue
extravagance and difiipation.
The improved lyftem of English hufuandry
solely conlilts in fubltituting a crop of clover, i
the place i f an unproductive fallow.
As frequent manuring is a very expensive ope
fation in agriculture, the farmers in
were formerly in the practice, after tak.ng tw
or three crops from a field, to leave it walte so
leveral )ears j by which a poor palture was fur
nilhed for their cattle, and the vigor of the foi
was, in a ImaJl degree, renewed by an annual de
cay ol weeds. This is, at pre fen t, the plan o
conducting the farms in many paits of that coun
try, and is universally the cale in this.
By fubft:tuting clover, for an unproductive sal
low, the farmer procures a valuable crop of hay
and the molt luxuriant pasture, belides which
the ground becomes meliorates for a crop o
wheat. The foundation of the improved En
yiilh method of hufbaadry, and the foundatioi
of the rotation of crops, recommended to th
society, is the fame.
If the objcCt of the society was merely to havi
it afcertaincu by a couife of experiments, whethe
an exaCt imitation of the Engiilh mode of farm
ing, would be fuccefsful in this country, th<
13th experiment is a complete anlwer in favor o
luch question—Potatoes, barley, clover, whea:
is one of the mod approved courses of crops i
that country. The rotation of crops which
had recommended to the patronage of" the fociet)
I, think, is superior to any hitherto pratlifeo
and that on two accounts :
jft. upon breaking up the clover lea, ir
the Method two valuable
of winter grain is prcCurec, in the place of one
according to the English mode of farming, and
2dly. Because by the plan proposed, a greate
number of valuable crops is pre.cured, and alio.;
greater length of time is acquired between thi
periods of manuring, which is a very expenlive
but highly necefl'ary part of farming.
Seven years of close and attentive observations
enabled me to Jay the foregoing experiments be
fore the society. GEORGE LOGAN.
Stcnton, Feb, 2S, 1791.
motto.
Could the Philadelphia Society, {nfiitutid for th
hudabie purpoje cf promoting agriculture, injiu
er.ee the go-v ernment cf the United States to eJl'abM
a free, unlimited and unreflritfed commerce, i
iu ou Id tend more to improve the agriculture of oui
country 1 than all the pi emiums in their gift*
In a future paper I fta-ll make force remark]
on the above experiments.
A FARMER.
* 9 JfX f ~un FbitsCople,
Pi iccs, Current at Philadelphia.
[Dollar equal to 100 Cents.j
ASHES Poc per ton 90 Dols. to 100
A/hcs pearl 137 — — J4O
3aton flitches, pei lb- 7 cents
tiacon (houlJers — — 6 do.
iees wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27
Jrandy, Coniac pr g!. 1 dol. 50 c. to I d. 65 c.
Jrandy, common, 1 dol. 26 c.
Butter, in kegs, per lb. JO c- to 12
r per buihel, 20 c. to 22
Jotfee, per lb. 18 c.
cotton, per lb. ?o c. so 42
lax, per lb. 10 c.
Hour, lupsr fine, per barrel, dols.
Common, 4 dols.
Burr middlings, best, pxr brl. 4 dols
Metl Indian 2 dols. 67 c.
Rye 3 dols.
Ship fluff", per cwt, j dol.
Cin, Holland, percale, 4 dois.
Ciinfeng, per lb. 20 c. to 24
Cirain, barley, per bushel, 90 c.
—■ best /helled, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per bushel, 40 c.
Indian corn, 40 c. 44, Oats 26 c. or. bush.
Rye 50 c. to 54> Wheat 95 to j dol.
Hams, pei lb. 8 c. t« 9
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67 c.
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9 c. to 31
Indigo, Carolina, per Jb. 40 c. to l dol.
(Ron, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
Callings, per cwc. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nail-rods per ton 96 dols.
Pig, per ton, 24 dols. to 26 dols. 67 c.
Sheet, per ton, 175 doJs 33 c.
Lard, hogs, per lb. 9 c. to 10
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
In pigs, — — 5 dols. 33 c. to 5 dol?. 67 r.
Red, ——- 6 dols. 40 c. to 0 dols. 67 c.
White, —jo dois. to 10 dol*. 67 c.
Myrtle wax per lb. 18 c.
(Vlolafles, pr gal. 44 c. to 4S
Pitch, per bariel, 1 doJ. 73 c. to 2 dols.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, ij dois to 11 4.33 c.
Lower County, do. 10 dols.
Carolina, do. 9 dols.
Rice, per icc lb. 2 dois. 67 c.
Rosin, per barrel, 2 .dolls. 33 c. to 2 dols. 67 c.
Rum, Antigua, per gallon, 1 dol.
Barbadoes, do. do. 77 c.
New-England, &c. 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. 72 c.
Windward Island, S6 to co c.
SnaUe-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
Sugar, Havanna, white, per lb. 17 to j8 c.
Brown, per lb. 15 c.
Muscovado, per cwt. 14 ools. to 15 dols
Lump, per lb. 22 c.
Loaf, single refined, 25 c.
Loaf', double ditto, 36 c.
fallow, refined, per lb. 9 c.
Tar, New-Jersey, 24 gal. to the brl. 1 dol.
Carolina, 32 gal. 1 dol. 33 c. to 1 dol. 67 c.
Tea, HyTon, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
Hyson Iki-n, 53 c. to 67
Soufliong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 30 c. to
Tooacco, James River, best. per cwt. j dols. 60
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 2 dols. 67 c. to 3
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 2 dols. 50 c. to 3 dol
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl, 33 c. to 3 d
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, 2 dols. 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dols. 23 c.
Carolina, new, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dols.
Carolina, old, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dois*
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. 67 c. to 2 dol- #
Wine, Madeira, per pipe, 106 dl. 67 c. to 200 dl*
Lilbon, ■ ■ 96 dols. to 10c
Teneriffe, per gal. 51 c. to 60
Fayal, 44 c. 49
Port, per pipe, 106 dols. 67 c. to 120 dota
This day is Publifhcd, end-to be Sold by
ROBERT CAMPBELL, Bookfcller ;
No. 54, Secondftrct South, and by all the prin
cipal Boohjellers in Philadelphia,
( ~ Price 3-8 ths of a Dollar.)
Proceedings in the House of Representatives of
the United States of America, refpe<sHng the
CONTESTED ELECTION
For the Epjlern DiJlri£l,of theJlate of GEORGIA,
CQNI AINING, fie Petition of Genera' [ames
Jackson against the elefticn xf General AnthC"
ny Wa yN e , and th:proceedings relative to the
Resolutions direfling the node of ecrduc? irg the
Trial : ivtth a Jkctch of the Debates from the com
mencement to the end of the bujinefs j iniludirg the
Speeches of botb parties ; a fnet-cb of Mr. Lewises
Defenc, counsel for General Wayne ; and the eon
' .uding Speech of General Jack/on for which he
received the applause of the auditors. Aljd, the
(uhjequent. proceedings of the House refpefiwg his
right ro a feat after theeleflion of the jit king wetn
'jer had been declared illegal.
Together ivith ASupplzmjnt cunfaisiing a
summary of the pi[(dings of the legijlature of
Georgia relative to the impeachment of Judge
Osborne ,t£len from the papers Jent under the go
vernment J'eal, tec. of the fate, end produced by
Mr. Baldwin, which on dtoZt* r ~ere rejefiei.
-X- f -3f The Printing-office of the National Ga
zette :s removed from No. 239, to 209, High {or
Market) Street y above .fifth Street.
%* The Report of -the Secretary of the.
Treasury on the Excise Ast Jar Ja:; at rmr
"Sice.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS AND S W A I N E.
" THII* orriCE, NO. 109, IIICH-STRIt?
UrAR SIJTH-STSBIT,
TH II A n* I ?r T A.