Vol. I.
For tke NATIO NAL GAZETTE.
To theYx. eeme nof the Un ited States.
FELLOW CITIZENS,
AT thisawful moment which prelents
a crisis big with thefateofour com
mon country. I nowaddrelsyou & whilst
your moffc sacred rights and privilege:,,
all the blessings of liberty, your general
welfare and that of your pofteriiy for
ever, ftaral suspended on one eventful
inferior confederations
ywill be waved, leiTer evils overlooked,
and nothing regarded but the pestilen
tial influence of that corrupt and poi
sonous principle whicli shall lweep a
way in one indiscriminate hluft, ever)
thing that is dear and-precious to free
men. In vain, my countrymen, have
you fought and conquered—in vain
have you lavished your belt blood ana
treasure—in vain have you furmountec
the most unparalleled scenes of difficul
ty and distress, and attempted to secure
and perpetuate the hallowed blessings oi
equal liberty upon the solid base of a
constitution of government, founded
on the principles of a federative union
of states and the mutual guarantee ol
individual rights. Consolidation, that
many headed monster of power, thai
creature of monarchy and instrument oJ
oppression, has made its appearance a
mong you ; and clothed with the in
fluence of a maxim as novel as it is
dangerous, " that the majority can cL> ni
wrong" it cemes fan&ioned in thsfortr
of a bill issuing from the two Houses oi
Congress, and ready to be presented foi
its final fiat. In one mighty sweep il
prcftrates the rights of states, beat!
down the boundaries of the couftituti
on, annuls the principles of your go
vernment, and reduces by practice thai
beautiful theory, you have so recently
iearea and venetate into the awful re
sult of il We will, and you obey'—confoun
ding the original and fundamental law:
of representation, which constitute the
vital principle of government, it sub
stitutes virtual fer actual representati
on, destroys all responsibility betweer
the reprefentst ve and his eonft:tuenr
and re-establishes the tyrannical doc
trine against which America so latel)
fought in the contest with Great Bri
tain, "that a foreign representation ha:
a right to bind us in all cases withoui
our consent." The plain and fimplc
provision of the constitution of the U
nited States, which declares " that re
prefentatives shall beapportionedamor.;
the fevtral states according to their res
pective numbers," is by a Jesuitical per
version, which would make even a Loyo
la laugh, rendered thus, " Representa
tives shall be apportioned among all the
states according to their aggregate num
bers"—as if the casting vote of a Vict
President in thi Senate and a majorit)
of two in the House of Representatives
occasioned by the casualty of ficknef:
and inability to attend, of three of the
southern members, could blind the un
derstanding, and pervert the judgmeni
of the people of America, or induct
them to receive as gospel truths, thofc
fiats of Congress which attempt to de
clare right to be wrong, or black to be
white. Equality too, that sacred prin
ciple, which is applied to mitigate the
rigor of the severer rules of law, is no:
less perverted and abused in pursuit oi
this newfangled mode of conftru&ion
and as if to do injustice were to establish
«iquality, this political fra&ional divi
or isufed, on the one hand, with all the
care of mathematical certainty, and on
the other with all the latitude of specu
lative fancy. Thus is the ratio of one
for 30,000 firft applied to the aggre
gate numbers of all the states, which,
including their refpe&ive fractions
gives 120 members, and then the fame
ratio applied to the states severally, giv
ing 112 menjbers, the remaining eight
members arc afligned not apportioned a-
By P. FREN EA U : Publiflied Mondays and I hursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
M O N D A Y, April 2, 1792.
mong such of the states having frattions,
as Congress in their difr.retior Jaw jit to give
them to—and in this scramble for power
and plunder of the people's rights, it is, as
might be expe&ed, " that the weakest
goes to the wall," and local conliderati
ons supersede all others ; thus there is
given to N. Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut and Vermont, four adjoin
ing Rates, each an additional member,
which, by the plain sense and common
meaning of the constitution they are not
entitled to, and to the states of Nevt-Jer
ley and Delaware each an additional
member, whilst the two states of North
and South Carolina, alone, of all the
southern states are to reccive a like ad
vantage. Nor is this all, the Senate of
the United States, with whom this bill
originated, have said, that by taking the
a gg re g ate °f the federal or representative
numbersof all the states, which is 3615825,
and dividing that by one for every goooo.
the constitutional ratio, you would give
120 members, the number declared in their
Bill, and leave only a fratlion of 15825
unrepresented in the whole United
States, whereas the fact is, that accord
ing to the bill, as it now is, the states
of Rhode-Island, New-York, Pennsylva
nia, Maryland, Kentuckey and Georgia,
leave a fraction unrepresented of 50981 ;
for which upon the principles of virtual
reprelentation, you mull look to the states
of New-Hainpihire, Massachusetts, Con
necticut and Vermont for members, thus
producing in the fame government and
among the fame body of men, the mon
strous absurdity of a part of the Legislature
con filling of actual and a part of virtual
representatives, although the amendments
of the Senate make no provision for al
lowing the virtual representative a JraSti
oticll vote, that is to lay, if he reprefems
10000, one third of a vote, if 15000, half
a vote, if 20000, two-thirds of a vote,
which upon their legerdemain principles
of equality would be certainly right.
But the application of this golden mean of
truth to the states individually, will more
manifeftlv Alow its effect and l'atisfy the
public mind what motives gave birth to
a measure so wild, so arbitrary, and so
absolutely in dereli&ion of all principle,
that it renounced and rejected all preten
lion of being di&ated by or made pursu
ant to the conftitulion, and therefore
struck out of the bill sent up by the
House of Representatives, all that' rela
ted to # fpecific ratio or apportionment,
according to the constitution, and left it upon
this fimjWe ground .
STATES.
Vermont
N. Hampfhirel
Maflachufetts
Rhode-Island
Connecticut
New-York
New-Jersey
Pennsylvania
Delaware
Maryland
Virginia
Kentuckey
N. Carolina
S. Carolina
Georgia
From which it will appear, that the three
small Rates of Rhode-Illand, Kentucky
and Georgia, are to have a proportionate
less representation than any within the
union, while Delaware is to have the
largest, and r.ext to her N. Hampshire,
which, with federal numbers, not more
than two-fold to that of Georgia,
is to have five members and Georgia
only two : —thus, advancing to equality
by encrcaling the difference and adding
to injustice. Enough, however has been
fj r; - 3
-n*
-s "x
<-> <•->
28511
28364
29705
34225
29605
30144
29926
30919
27770
30846
30026
34352
29*160
20462
-35422
3
5
i 6
2
8
i i
6
*4
2
9
21
2
I 2
7
2
8 5533
141823
475327
<38447
236842
33 1 59 2
*79559
432879
55540
278514
630560
68705
35 8 523
206237
70844,
o
r».
c?
SS*
0^
C>
=5
o>
>5
>>
%
5'
o>
I
| 120
(36158^5
stated, and whether the bill in question.
by the ambidexterity of its contrivers,
has on the scale of 120 members, appor
tioned by the ratio of one for every
thirty thousand on the aggregate num
bers of all the states, really, left an un
represented fraction of no more thar
1 5- when the fix states of Rhodc-
Ifi'nd, New-York, Pennsylvania, Ma
ry'and, Kentuckey and Georgia alone,
prelent an unrepresented fra&ion ol
50,981, common sense will determine,
I\F«f should it efcapeobfervation through
how many forms, and with what varie
ty of management this business has becrj
conducted ; two bills have been origin
ated on the fubjeft, in the firft of which
the House of Representatives, by nt
lets than leven solemn votes, by aves
and noes, adhered to the original and
:onftitutional principle of a ratio oi
:>ne for 30.000 applied, to thefeveralJlata
according to their refpedioe numbers, and
the bill failed lolely on the difference
ticcdfioned by the Senate, of infilling
an a ratio of one for 33,000, without
regard to the present contrivance ol
si ai tional constituents and a virtual re
prcfentative—The other bill, which is
nov in question also originated, or was
intended to originate in the House o)
Reprefeptatives, although as it stands
nothing but the words ' Be it ena£ted, :
and the names of the states now re
main of all that was inserted by that
House, the senate having struck out all
the reft, and even changed the very
title of the bill : On this bill too.
grounded on the fame principle with
the Srft, of one for 30,000 applied to tht
/evtralJlates according to their refpedivt
mothers, the House of Representatives
by < ight solemn votes, adhered to the
pr; .pie ; and laftfy, after repeated
attempts to introduce fractions, the a
mendments of the Senate prevailed in
the absence of three sick foutherp
members, by a majority of two undei
the novel and extraordinary circumjlanct
of a quejlion precedent to determine what
'ffed an after quejlion Jhould have, am,
then of a quejlion subsequent to determint
whether a quejlion jujl taken related to ont
or a dozen amendments.
To add more upon so plain a fubjefl
would be to insult the public under
dcrftanding, since both the principle
and operation of this bill are so obvi
ous, that he who runs may read. Ten
years will elapse before it is probable
another census will be taken, and wlie
ther in the mean time fomc states are tc
have a greater representation in Con
gress, and in the elections of a Prefi
dent and a Vice-President, than they are
"onft.tutionally entitled to. or whethei
at the end of that term, Congress on ;
lecond census, may by some new rule
at frathons, have another scramble foi
influence and power, are questions o
inferior magnitude, whilst the mind fuf
pended, by the progress of the princi
ale of conlolidation awaits with anxiou:
concern, that eventful issue which is tc
lecide whether the Constitution of th<
United States is a compact or foedera
tive union of stateS, possessing feparat(
rights, and entitled to individual in
fluence according to their refpeftivc
population and extent—or whethei
the mere will and discretion of Con
can overlook state limits, dispense
with their national boundaries, difre
gard their population and appropriate
their strength, wealth and resources tc
any purpose of consolidation and national
government. FEDERALIST.
*# v A few Copies of the Report of tht
Secretary oj the Treajury on the AEI foi
laying Duties on Spirits, &c. for sale at
this Of.ce.
A few Copies of the Report of the Secretary
of State on the fubjeEt of the Cod and Whale
tijheries—nay be had at the ojjice, No. 239
Hi^h-Jlreet,
Numb. 45.
PHILADELPHIA.
C O NGR ESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Tuesday, March 27.
Mr. S. Bourne, from the committee
of enrollment, presented to Mr. Speak
er, duly enrolled, a " Bill, fuppltment
al to the ast making further and more
effectual provision for the defemce of the
frontiers of the United States Mr.
Speaker signed the fame; and before the
house rose, Mr. Bourne reported, that
the committee had waited on the Pref
dent of the United States, and present
ed him the laid bill, for his approbation.
A message was delivered by Mr- Se
cretary Lear, informing the House, that
the Prelident of the United States had
this day iigned an " Ast providing for
he settlement of the claims of particu
lar persons, barred by the limitations
heretofore established and also an
' Ast for the relief of widows, orphans,
nvalid pensioners, and certain other
persons."
A message was received from the Se
nate, " receding from their difagree
nent to the amendment adhered to by
he House of Representatives to the
Bill for establishing a mint, &c.
A resolution, laid yesterday on the
able by Mr. Giles, was taken up, and
imended, as follows :
" Resolved, That the President of
:he United States be requested to infti
ute an enquiry into the causes of the
ate defeat of the army under the com
nand of Major General St. Clair ; and
ilfo into the causes of the detentions or
ielays, which " are fuggelled to have
ittended the money, cloathing, provifi
anSj and military stores for the use of
the said army ; and into such other
:aufes, as may in any manner have been
productive of the said defeat,"
After a debate of some length, a divj
fion of the question being called for,
The question was taken on the firft
part, as far as the words " Major Gen
sral St. Clair," which passing in the
negative, yeas, 21 ; nays, 35 ; the re
mainder of the resolution was left of
:ouife.
The yeas and nays were as follows : 1
Ye as—Messrs. Afhe,Boud mot, Clarke,
Giles, Goodhue, Heifter,
KJlchell, Lee, Macon, Page, Parker,
schoonmaker, Seney, Surnpter, Sylvef
er, Thatcher, Tredwell, Vcnable,
Ward, Willis—2l
Nays—Melfrs. Ames, Baldwin,
Barnwell, Benfon, S. Bourne, B Bourne
Brown, Fitzfimons, Gilman, Gordon,
Gregg, Griffin, Grove, Hartley, Hill
houfe, Huger, Key, Learned, Liver
more, Madilon, Mercer, Moore, Muh
lenberg, Murray, Niles, Sedgwick, J.
Smith, I. Smith, W. Smith, Steele,
Sterrett, Sturges, Vining, White, Wil
liamlon—3s
The following resolution was then a
dopted ; yeas, 44 nays, 10.
" Resolved, That a committee be ap
pointed to enquire into the causes of
the failure of the late expedition under
Major Gen. St. Clair ; and that such
committee be empowered to call for
such persons, papers and records, as may
benecelfary to assist their enquiries."
Yeas—Messrs. Afhe, Baldwin, B.
Bourne, S. Bourne, Brown, Clarke,
Findley, Fitzfimons, Giles, Gilman,
Gordon, Gregg, Griffin, Grove, Hart
ley, Heifter, Huger, Key, Kitchell, Kit
:era, Lee, Livcrmore, Macon, Madison,
Mercer, Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray,
Niles, Parker, Sedgwick, Seney, J.
Smith, Steele, Sterrett, Sturges, Sylves
ter, Tredwell, Tucker, Vining, Ward,
White, Williamfon, Willis— -44.
Nays—Messrs. Ames,Barnwell, Beu
fon, Goodhue, Hillhoufe, Page, Schoon
maker, I. Smith, W. Smith, Sump
ter—lo.A committee accordingly appointed,
consisting of Mellrs. F.itzfimons, Giles,
Steele, Mercer, Vining, Clarke, and Sedg
wick-
In confeque'nce of the passing of the ast,
by which a general provision is made for
claims to invalid p'enfions, many of thfe pe
titions, heretofore referred tolieads of de
partments, not requiring now to be particu
larly reported on, the following order was
proposed by Mr. Sturges, and adopted by
the Htfufe, viz.
" Ordered, that the Secretary of the
Treasury and the Secretary of War return
the petitions presented to this House by in
valids and others, vctjofe cases are compre
hended in the provisions of any ast of the
prefentfeflion, with the papers accompany
ing the said petitions, which have been re
ferred to them, and are now in their offices;
and that the several petitioners have leave
to withdraw their petitions."
The report of the feleft committee on
the memorial of the officers of the levies,
late in the service of the United States, was
taken up for consideration : and on a mo
tion that the House should agree to the re
port, the question pasTed in the negative.
Mr. Madison, \Vho had voted with the
majority, for the appointment of a commit
tee of enquirv, moved for a reconsideration
of t'ne vote, for the purpose of substituting
the following resolution, instead of the one
adopted.:
" Resolved, that a committee be appoint
ed, to make enquiry into such circumstan
ces, connected with the late unfuccefsful
expedition under the command of Major-
General St. Clair, as may be proper to be
reported for the information of this House."
Some objeftiotis, however, being made,
t'le House, without taking a question on the
motion, adjourned.
Wednesday, March 28.
The Speaker laid before the House a let
ter from the Secretary of the Treasury,
inclosing the returns of duties arising on im
ports and tonnage for one year, ending the
30th of September last, and a return of ex
ports to the fame period—which was com
mitted to Mr. Parker, Mr. Key, and Mr.
Gilman.
Mr. Fitzfimons, from the committee on
the specie account of the Treasurer of the
United States, made a report, which was
read and ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Madison moved, " that it be an in
ftruflion to the committee of seven, ap
pointed yesterday, to conlider the enquiry
committed to them, as confined to such cir
cumstances, connected with the late unfuc
cefsful expedition under Major-General
St. Cla;r, as may be requisite for the infor
mation of the House."
The question, on this motion, pafied in
the negative.
A message from the Senate, was deliver
ed by Mr. Secretary Otis, notifying, that
they had concurred with the House in pas
sing the bill for finifhing the light-house, on
Bald-head, at the mouth of Cape Fear ri
ver, in the state of North-Carolina.
Mr. Otis delivered a second meflage, in
forming the House, that the President of
the United States had notified the Senate of
his having this day approved and signed an
ast supplemental to the late ast for the de
fence of the frontiers.
Pursuant to the order of the day, the
House resolved itfelf into a committee of (
the whole—(Mr. Seney in the chair)"—on
the report of the Secretary of the Treasury,
on the public debt.
The firft of the resolutions proposed on
the 22d instant, by Mr. Fitzfimons, being
taken into consideration, — as follows:
" Resolved, That the term for receiving
on loan, that part of the domestic debt of
the United States which yet remains unfub
fcribed, be extended to the firft day of Sep
tember next, on the fame terms as was pro
vided by the ast making provision for the
public debt of the United States,"
The word " September"''' was struck out,
leaving a blank, to be afterwards filled up.
Mr. Mercer moved further to amend the
propoiition, by striking out the words " on
thefame terms, Bcc." to the end, and substitu
ting these.
" And all persons, so subscribing, shall
receive stock of the United States, for the
principal sum so subscribed, bearing an
interest payable quarterly at the rate of
five per ccnt. per annum,—and stock of the
United States, for the interest due on said
principal at thetime of subscription, bearing
an interest payable quarterly at the rate of
three per cent per annum, until the principal
sum of the said stock shall be redeemed."
In support of this motion, Mr. Mercer
spoke near an hour.
Mr. Madison, in lieu of the proposed a
jnendment, offered the following :
" Provided that, instead of the terms
contained in the ast m iking provision for
the public debt of the U. States, the sub
scribers shall receive certificates for the
joint amount of the principal and arrears of
interest subscribed ; which certificates shall
bear an interest equivalent to the terms con
toined in the said act."
Thefubjeft was warmly debated till the
tifual hour of adjournment, w hen the com
mittee rose, and reported progress.
Mr, I. SmitH, from the committee for
enrolled bills, reported that the committee
had waited on the Prefide-it of the United
States, and presented to him, for his appro-
the "bill establishing a mint, and
regulating the coins of the United States."
Mt. Sedgwick, from the committee ap
pointed, reported a hill irl conformity to
the refoluticns adopted on Monday last.
refpefting the Ohio company. [Sfe T-ef
day s minutes. J Adjourned.
ThursdAy, March 39.
Mr. Sedgwick, from the committee ap
pointed, presented a bill authorizing a grant
and conveyance of certain lands to the Ohio company
of ajfociates—which was twice read and com
mitted to 2 committee of the whole House
on Monday next.
Petitions were presented and read from
William Scott, Lydia Henderfon, James
Robertfon, Sluyter Bouchell, Mordecai
Sheftall, and Ebenezer Allen, praying re
imbursements, compensations, &c.—The
three firft referred to the Secretary of War;
the others to the Secretary of the Treafnry.
Mr. Steele, from the committee, to whom
were referred the petition of Andrew Jack
son and the report of the Attorney-General
thereon, reported, as their opinion, that it
is not expedient to grant the prayer of the
petitioner.
Mr. Vining, from the committee, to
whom were referred the memorials of the
minister and trustees of the Lutheran, and
the wardens of the Calvinift Church in
Chester county, state of Pennfylvanii, and
of the corporation of trustees of the public
grammar school of Wilmington in the state
of Delaware, reported in favor of an in
demnification to the said school ; but gave
it, as the opinion of the committee, that the
aforefaid churches, being barred by the acts
of limitation, ought not to be indemnified.
The committee of enrolment presented
to Mr. Speaker an enrolled bill, for finilhing
a light-house on Bald-head, at the mouth
of Cape-Fear river, in the state of 'North-
Carolina ; and Mr. Speaker signed the fame.
Pursuant to the order of the day, the
House again resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole, 011 the report of the Se
cretary of the Treasury on the public debt:
Mr. Seney in the chair.
The amendment proposed yesterday to
the firft of Mr. Fitzfimons's resolutions be
ing withdrawn ; the resolution ftcod as fol
lows :
" Resolved .... that the term for re
ceiving on loan, that part of the domestic
debt of the United States, which yet re
mains unfubfcribed, be extended to the
firft day of next, on the fame terms,
as was provided by the ast making provi
sion for the public debt of the United
States."
To this Mr. Giles moved to add the fol
lowing,— ,
" Except that condition in the ast, which
renders the debt, so far subscribed, fubjeft
to redemption by payments not exceeding,
in one year, on account of both principle
and interest, a proportion of eight dollars
upon the hundred, and any certificate,
which shall be issued according to the terms
therein fpecified ; which condition, so far
as it relates to any part of the debt, which
may hereafter be subscribed, shall be abo
lished."
A debate, of three honrs continuance,
ensued ; in which MefTrs. Giles, Ames,
Laurance, Mercer, Gerry, Heifter, and
Findley, having severally fpokcn,
The question was finally taken on the a
mendment, and pafied in the negative
yeas 2j, nays 32.
The question, on agreeing to the resolu
tion, rafted in the affirmative.
The second resolution was agreed to,
without debate, as follows :
" That provision ought to be made for
payment of the interest on the unfubfcri
bed part of the domestic debt of the United
States, to the firft day of January, 1-93.
on like terms as was provided by the ast
aforefaid."
The third resolution was amended as
follows:
" That the holders of loan-office certifi
cates iifued between the firft clay cf Sep
tember, 1777, and the firft day of March,
1778, be entitled to receive interest thereon,
" according to the liquidated value," at the
fame rate as other non-subscribing creditors
of the United States, without being obliged
to exchange such certificates."
Amotion, made for a further amend
ment, was under discussion, when the House
adjourned.
Friday, March 30.
Mr. Parker of the committee to whom
was referred the report of the Secretary of
the Treasury stating the amount of imports
and exports, brought in a report which was
read and laid on the table.
The report brought in yesterday by Mr.
Vining refpefting the Wilmingto'n acade
my, &c. was taken into consideration, a
greed to, and a committee appointed to pre
pare and report a bill. Several petitions
were read and referred.
In committee of the whole on the report
of the Secretary of the Treasury on the
public debt. Mr. Seney in the chair,
The third proyvfiticn was taken into
consideration—an amendment \v as propo
fcd by striking out the last clatife, in these
words " without being pbliged to exchange
their certificates." this amendment wa
disagreed to—and then the question being
put on the propofitiou, th'at was also nega
tived —a 4: to 22.
The 4fh proposition beingr£ad, t?e word
" September" was expunged ; and the
question on the propofitiou with the blank
being put—was carried in the affirmative.
The fifth proposition which reipefis a fur
ther aflumption was then read ; September
was ftru.ck out. —On motion of Mr. Key,
Maryland was inserted.
The subject was then debatecj till after
3 o'clock, when the committee rose, v ith
out a decision, and reported progress.
A meflage was received from the Senate
by Mr. Secretary Otis, with the militia bill
—palled the Senate with amendments.
The committee of enrolled bills, repor
ted that they had this day laid before the
President of the United States, for his ap
probation, the Bill for finifliing the light
house, on Bald-Head, at the mouth of Cape
Fear river. Adjourned.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
THE UNION.
Who Are its real Friends ?
NOT those who charge others, with not
being its friends wbilft their own con
duit is wantonly multiplying its enemies.
Not those who favor measures, which by
pampering the spirit of fpecillation within
and without the government, disgust the
best friends of the Union.
Not those who promote unnecessary ac
cumulations of the debt of the Union, in
stead of the best means of discharging it as
fact as poflible ; thereby encreafing the
causes of corruption in the government, aud
the pretexts for new taxes under its autho
rity, the former undermining the confi
dence, the latter alienating the atfeftion of
the people.
i Not those who fitidy, by arbitrary inter
pretations and insidious precedents, to per
vert the limited government of the Union,
into a government of unlimited discretion,
contrary to the will and subversive of the
authority of the people.
Not tiiofe who avow or betray principles
of monarchy and aristocracy, in opposition
to the republican principles of the Union,
and the republican spirit of the people ; or
who espouse afvftem of measures more ac
commodated to the depraved examples of
those hereditary forms, than to the true
genius of our own.
Nottho'e, inaworcf, who would force
on the people the meiaricholv duty of chu
fing beween the loss of the Union, and the
lofsofwhat the union was meant to secure.
The real FRiends tothc Union are those.
Who are friends to the authority of the
people, the sole foundation on which the
Union rests.
Who' are friends to liberty, the great
end, for which the Union was formed.
Who are friends to the limited and re
publican system of government, the means
provided by that authority, for the attain
ment of that end .
Who arc enemies to every public mea
sure that mightlmooth the way to heredi
tary government; for resisting the tyran
nies of which the Union was firft planned,
and for more effectually excluding which,
it was put into its present form.*
Who considering a public debt as injuri
ous to the interests of the people, and bane
ful to the virtue of the government, are
enemies to every contrivance for unnecejjari
lf increasing its amount, or p'rotra£tirrg : its
duration, or extending its influence.
In a word, those are the real friends to the
Union, who aie friends to that republican
policy throughout, which is the only ce
ment for the Union of a republican people ;
in opposition to a spirit of usurpation and
monarchy, which is the meijlrvum most ca
pable of diflblving it. March 31.
ODE to the ECHO Writer.
IN ECHO'S caves, wiih fhrill-voic'd conchs
hung round,
And pumpkin {hells, responding all they hear,
A B«.rd, call'd Whaacum, caiches every found,
Governs their tone, pricks up his lengthy ear;
In putrid ink then dips hi.-' pen of lead
And fcribblesdown what prattling Echo laid.
Batd of the lengthy ode ! whose knavilh paw
Ne'er grafp'd the helm, brfprait with odious
pitch,
'Twas better far, (you knew) to praßife law,
Whine at the church or in the ceurt-houfe
screech ;
No heart hadyou tofacethe wintry blafi
Fight with the fiorm, or climb the tottering mafl.
Then why so wroth, thou baid of narrow foul,
If Sinbat, tir'd of puppies, fought the brine ?—
He drank nofwichell from youi white-oak bowl,
Nor from your poems fiktida f'ngle line
When he does this—then echo from your
caves,
" Who robs a beggar, is the worjl of knaves.'"
March 31.
PHILADELPHIA.
April r, 1792.
Further accounts f)om the weflward f; v, t* at
Capt. Shaylor is arrested, and will be tiied by a
general court-martial for leaving bis at
Fort-Jefferfon, in confluence of wbich he
met with (lie accident mentioned in our last. No
other depredations have been mnde since t"he
general engagement, except bv a fma'l of
Indians, who, about the beginning of March,
dole seven horses from Wheeling, The Wa
bafhand O'her hofli'e tribes, it is thought, are
itieditating lome capital blow on the frontier
polls, a circumO nice not much dreaded by the
garnfons, as, of all people, Indians are the nio'ft
feeble in an attack upon fortifications.
A general eflimate was presented.in the French
National AfTembly, on the 30th Dec. last of the
public expences of the year, 170® —which (land
as follow:—Maintenance of the princes, five
millions of hvres; armv, two hundred and
twenty-one millions; foreign affairs, fix mil
lions ; marine and colonies mil
lions ; general adminiflration, five millions ;
public worship, eighty-one mil!i"*.s ; pensions
to ecclefi;iftics, fixtv-eight millions; nation-A
aff-rtibly, five millions; civil lift, twentv-fi^F 1
millions ;bridgesand roads, four millions : liif'i
national court, and court of appeal, four hun
dred and fifty tho.ufand ; schools and acade
mies, one million ; interest of public debt,
twenty millions; life annuities, one hundred
millions; perpetual annuities, three hundred
millions—Making a total of seven hundred and
leventy-four millions of livres, or upwards of
thirty-two millions two hundred and fifty thou
tapd pounds t!e11 1n '. —Of thr vast sum, two
hundred and forty-four millions of livres are tip
on the lift of extraordinaries, caused by the re
volt in St- Domingo, and other national convul
sions.
ihe last London papers mention uncommon
high tides to have prevailed along the south coast
of England the 1 :tter end of January. Cause
ways, bridges, &c. were overflowed v.hich the
Ocean had scarcely ever reached before—'radef
men s fliops, and all other floating bodies were
in many places carried entirely awav, or driven
up to Ipots that the tide had not been known to
visit for more than forty years, and streets in
certain towns on the coafl were navigable For
boats of considerable size. This took place with
a succession o r hatd gales at north-weft, so that
the tides must have swelled much higher on the
opposite fhorcs of France.
In conference of an inordinate thiifl for sud
den arquifition (fays a letter from New-York)
this city is atprefent far from' being in an envi
able situation. Confidence bet-veen man and
man seem-, ahnoft ruined ; a::d it would be
some consolation if contemptible misers and
rich fkin-flints had alone fullered in the late
failures—Unfortunately the widow, the or
phan, and some other characters, who deserve
oi,r pity, have been also taken in, and even upon
the bed ifpeft of the matter, muf! fuffer the lol's o.f
'thegreater part oftheir little all. From the fpirii of
I peculation which has flalked at large amongst us,
commerce has for some time been diverted from
its regular course into an improper channel ;
and the money, dellined for commercial purpo
ses, having been employed in speculating ma
noeuvres, the mercantile interests have fuffered
.accordingly.
A bill was presented last Thnrfday in the
Pennsylvania house of representatives, and read
entitled, An Ast to prevent the praflice of
fock-jokbing.—lt was ordered to lie on the table
for consideration:
The last accounts from the southern parts of
Hifpaniola are dated Feb. 14. The mulattoes
then had entire poflVflion of what is called the
Plain, in the neighborhood of Aux-Cayes, and
iiad recently burned a number of buildings and
cane-plantations. The incampment of the
whites was about two miles from the town la:t
mentioned. Vessels had arrived there a day or
two before from France, having on board be
tween three and four hundred infantry and ar
tillery men, who with three hundred militia cf
the town were to march about the 17th of Feb.
to attack the mulattoes. These people had at
tacked Tiberoon (S. W. part of the lfland) on
the 24th of Jan. but had been repulsed with
fdme lots-. Aux-Cayes was reckoned fafe; more
troops being daily expefled ; a French and an
Eng'.ifh frigate inthe harbour,and the town well
fortified.
Biitilh papers, by the last veffeh, mention the
refufal of the queen of Portugal to interfere in
the all airs of France, in consequence of over
tures of that nature from the court of Russia.
1 hey fay further, that the King of Sweden has
at last accepted the notification from Louis the
16th that he had accepted the conftitutiort ; and
bad Vent off his answer. His motive for thii
sudden change 0 f opinion was thought to be t A
euiprcfs of Ruflia's having accepted the fame
notification from Mo'nf. St. Priest, and the evi
dent diflnclination of the emperor of Germany
to intermeddle in the affairs of France.
The answer of the emperor of Germany tat
the letter of.the king of France presented by M.
de Noailles, requesting his final answer, whether
he meant to support the emigrants or not. 11
couched in the following terms :—" There can
be no longer any doubt as to my manner of
thinking upon the affairs of Fiance. My adeclaration, a-nd the orders which I have faufid
to be g'-ven by tr.v f,v ninent at Bruffeis to
She agent of the French emigrants, prove, that
lconfider my biother-in-law as free, arid that
mv intention is, not to mcc He wish Me aflairs
of his kingdom, as long as the French (hall Jeaw
him all that they have voluntarily Mfured 10 him,
and that which he has voluntarily accepted in
the new conflitutional contra6l.
" But nothing further is to be reoniredof me.
If the king of the French has complaints againo
particular"dates of the empire, free sovereigns
like tnyfelf, in virtue of the Germanic confli
mtion, let him address himfelf to those fove
t-i-ns' and fettle with them as he may undcr
ftand them."
<« j— (fays an Alhanv paper) who is now
talked ps for ov'ernor of this (late, has bee.n. or
is chairman of a club, who wish to give all the
negroes their liberty—the Patroon.roo.is for let
tin"' them all free, and voted for it fomt-vears
-when a member of the alTcmbly — These
gentlemen, however, ought not to take our pro
perty away because they think it wicked for us
to hold it —the fair way would be for them (bo'h
beinff very rich) to give up part of their property
to c ear the country of this wick'dnefs, since we
that have poffclTed property in {laves ought by
no means to be finglcd out to pav for the wic -
ednefs O: the country :—Bur perhaps ihe rirh
people with to set the slaves at liberty that they
may have a chance of hiring the bed of ihem for
servants —and who knows if certain would-be
frovernors, after having set the negroes free,
vypuld not make voters of them for governor
and lieutenant-governor, and thus, by degrees,
become flrong enough to get people of the
African colour into those offices !"
Advices! r rom the Cape of Good-Hope (via-
Salem) d ted Oftober6, mention affairs in that
place to be in the utmost confufion. The go
vernor is sent to Europe ; the fifcal abfeonded,
the company's property felling off, and the
company itfelf said to be bankrupt. The troops
were o-one to Batavia and Ceylon, and the king
of Candia (in Ceylon) had rebelled against the
Dutch.
A letter from Nashville, in Cumberland
county (territory fotitb of the Ohio) mentions
th» completion of a Car ding-Machine in that
place, which will card an hundred weight ol
cotton per day, with only the attendance ol one
hand. Another is finished at the fame place
which carries fifty fpindlrs ; and three others
are nearly ready to g6 ; carrying, in the whole,
two hundred spindles. The fame letter informs,
that corton is becoming one of the (laple com
ni dities of that country, several planters having
in the course of the last season raised near one
thousand weight each. Six hundred weight oi
clean cotton had been produced on half an acre
ps land, but upon a moderate calculation, an
ac re would produce one thousand weight.
M. Bouille, the French apostate Goner
s', is like to fee all his fchemespr. vc Inef
ficient for restoring despotic monarchy
in Fra: ce. European accounts fay, That
he ha? been for feme time past exerting
himfelf to negociate with one of the Ger
man Prince.; for ten thousand Heffiiyis, sot
thefervice of the emigrant French princes.
The Landgrave of Hefle. however, growr
wife by exp rience, refuted to furnilh an)
except condemned malefactors, at a Levis d'oi
per head.
Some accounts are mentioned in Londoi
papers of the celebrated French circumna
vigator Peyrov/ being {till alive with fomt
of his crew on adefart Island in the Indiai
ocean. A vefiel was to be difpatc'ned frou
the Island of Bourbon to bring him, and hi
■unfortunate surviving companions, home.
The King o "rufiia (fays a London pa
per) has declared that Louis the t6th hay
ing accepted the constitution, prevents hi:
atting in favour of the emigrants— but that,
nctwithftanding, he will act with all his
forces in favour of his molt Chriftan Ma
jesty, if the National Assembly. or any pre
vailing party, forget the obligations ihey havi
contracted towards the King.
The African society in En'-land (or aflo
ciation for prompting discoveries in the in
terior part- of Africa) have a prelent in
their employ. Ma jo. - Houghton, facceflor to
the celebrated Ledyard, in exploring those
jnhofpitableclhnes. This Gentlemen, in a
letter to the fpcietv, informs them that he
has penetrated one thousand miles up the
river Senegamb'ra. He has alio trantmit
ted an accurate account of the distances.
bearings, latitudes, and longitudes of the
several places he has vilited.
Bythelateft information from England
and France, the emigrants are returning ir
vast numbers from the low countries and
Germany into the French dominions. Mi
rabeau's legion, iff particular, have almofl
tmiverfally returned with their arms and
baggage ; finding the promises of the felf
exilei. princes to be no longer reived on.
and that they had become, literally, beg
gars in supporting a ruined cause.
It is llrange (fays, a daily paper of lafl
week) that our legislators have to far for
gotten the rock from whence they were
liewn, as well as the fir ft line of the Feder
al constitution, as not to have thought cri
{lamping upon our money the following
words—The people of the United States.
Yrora the tenor of various newspapers,
5t seems to be afcertain'ed that the Em-
pref of Rulia means to guarantee the new
;onftitution of Poland (which, however
incompitable with her ccnduft towards
France) 'l is thought will ehe." aally secure
the lib crties.of Poland againlt the attempts
of the elector of Saxony ar.d other powers,
who lr.;' : v it!: a jealonseye, upon every
ini.ovat'cn in favour of the liberties of the
people.
" The death of Prince Potemkin (fays a
late Leyi!en paper) has vilibly a:>P.M the
health and (p ritsof the Empress of Ruf
lia. . For fifteen days after hearing the news
(he did not appear in public. To the af
fliction of losing so esteemed a favorite i;
is' added a severe cold, which with the va
riety of buiinefs that has occurred in con
"equence of.the Prince's death, keeps her
'liiitantly (hut up in her closet, making new
1 L'rangements in the ft ate and military
departments."
A plan is agitating in the state of Maila
chufetts for fepamtmg the old (included)
province of Maine therefrom, and electing
it into a new state. Preparations are ma
king for forming such arrangements that
the'reparation (with the content of Con-
Tefi) mav take place in 1795- Maine, it i'
laid, will not be a contemptible state ei
ther in population, or extent or territory.
The legislature of New York has or
dered three thoufacd bulhels of corn to be
pa-chafed for the use of the Indians of the
iix nations, to be distributed as the govern
or flia.ll direct—some cloathing has alfobeer
ordered to be purchased for the particular
use of the Oneida Indians.
Four frigates have lately arrived ai
Kingston, Jamaica, with a reinforcemen:
of troops, arms and ammunition. By the
iaft accounts there are near twelve thou
i'and effective men armed and accoutrec
i* the I (land, to awe the negroes from £
tendency to infurre&ion.
On the 25th of January last the Frenct
National Assembly decreed, that the kini
111 all, by mefl'age, be requested to declare
;:o the Emperor, that he cannot hereaftei
treat with him but in the name of the
French nation, and in virtue of the powers
delegated to him by its ccinftituents —to e.e
mand also " Whether, as head of the house
of Auflria. he intends to live in peace ant
s;ood understanding with the French nation,
arid if he renounces all treaties and conven
tions directed against the sovereignty anc
independence of the nation —if the Empe
ror of Germany does not before the firfl
day of May, 1792, give full and entire fatif
faCtion upon those, and some other points,
his filenee, or even an evasive answer will be
considered a a declaration of war."
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
On the Representation Bill .
{Continuedfrom No. 42..)
' J 'fiE plan contended for by the House o 1
Representatives, which applies the ratio tc
the numbers of each (late, is founded on the
principle of a compact between the people o
leveral independent dates, stipulating their rela
tive weight 01 interefl in some department of ;
national system. Graduating the representation b)
numbers, 'tis the inseparable quality 0! that prin
ciple that it be formed on those, such slates thai
relpe£tively contain. To a member to on<
state for the people of another, would fubver
it, and withit the found principles of reprefenta
lion. Its numbeis would thus become the fourot
of aggrandizement to a neighbour, and oppref
fion 10 itfelf.
But that contended for by the Senate, whicl
applies the ratio to the aggiegate population o
the United States, is obviouily founded on thi
opposite principle. It excludes the idea of a com
pafct stipulating equal rights, to be measured by ;
common standard, between the people ot sepa
rate slates; for it has been shewn that the twe
modes were incompatible, and if either was a
dopted the other must be abandoned; or in oihei
words, if the ratio be applied to the whole num
bers of the union, it could not afterwards, as ar
uniform rule, to those of each individual state
Hence it follows, upon this principle, that the
only purpose to be answered by it, and of courle
that alone for which it must have been intended
was to give the Congress a controul over the
number or extent of the representative body
To enable them, und r the reftramis container
in the conflitution, in the progrefsof an encreaf
ing population, to prevent too great an encreaft
of the House of Representatives.
Yielding the idea of a compact between '.lie peo
ple of separate states, and ot state rights under it.
it follows there can be no violation of it : foi
where there has been 110 stipulation there can be
no breach. In this view the consequences be
ome mere feriour. and inrerefting ; tor there re
mains of courle no rule whatever, by which thi)lt
members shall be diifributed among the fevera]
states. Nothing binding or obligatory, a depar
ture from which would fnrniih a conlfitutiona
ground of complaint to any quarter of the union.
If for inftar.ee, one third of ah the member;
fliould be given to any one state, how could it be
resisted, or upon what principle opposed ? If urged
that the ratio was unequal, might it not be (aid
in reply, we have nothing to do with it. It has
i*een already applied to a different, and the sole
purpose, for which it was intended. The hope
that a lenfe of justice and regard for the equal
rights ot every part, would mitigate the rigor ot
local interest, and prevent an improper distribu
tion, might administer comfort to some ; but the
number of those who could derive consolation trcm
this source, believing that public virtue will be al-
•vat founo a fulndent barrieragsinft those abuse'
which intereit and ambition would be
fmail. The mod unequivocal declarations in the
state conftkutions, have not always been able to
their impulle, and Iheld the people trorn in
croachment in the state alfembjies. Upon what
prii ci ->le' then could it be looked lor, in that oi
the u:iior\ (especially in the pretent c.tlc) where
the temptation is greater, the fpija't of locality
note adtive, and no conftitutionai-refttjint ?
r.:.,t the objedtion to a boundfel's controul over
thi« interest, would be diminished, if the couftitu
tion had not prohibited its execution, by the only
which could be equal, uniform or cerram.
As the aggregate population divided by 30,000,
give? 120 members, So that rule Ihould be obServed
in their distribution by dividing the union into
diftri&s, each of that number. But this we have
I'een was impofiible, from its unavoidable inteifer
£#ce with the state boundaries—Thus then we
find the door baried, againlt the only rational and
fair mode, by which it could be executed ; discre
tion at belt objectionable, alfumes an alpedt pecu
liarly offenfive and dangerous in the prelent in
stance.
If the demonstration Should be deemed Satisfac
tory, thac the aggregate principle excluded the
idea of the state character, it would onl> remain
to inquire upon the principles of the government:,
whether that were in reality the cafe. For it it
were not, it must follow, that the principle ltlelf
is unconstitutional. Had the state authorities
been completely annihilated, there would be no
doubt on the fubjedt ; there could, in such cale, b?:
no compact of the kind above luggelted, ana oi
c'r«;rfe nothing to interfere with its execution
But whilst they are prelerved in complete Sove
reignty, however extensive the powers delegated
)i independent the government formed may be,
it pofl'elTes the inherent qualities and must be
ieemed a federal one. The principle is the lame,
whether ic originates from the states in the;r po
itic capacities, or the people compoling them in
heir original charadter j with this difference onlyj
hat in the latter cafe its constitutional adts are
aramount to the authority of the state legifla
ureg, and require not their landtion to give them
"orce. It must be conceded thac the people can
■nake a as well as their reprelentatives,
jnder any government they may iorm—l heir
>wn state governments respectively, are in fadt, fa
T>.any compadts, between the several individual;
rortjpofing eacn. Why may they not then, in that
:haradter, as so many diftindt communities, ratify
1 federal one ? Will the manner in which they
jive their afient make it less so ?
The slightest view of the constitution will de
-nonftrace thac the state charadler, or that of the
»eopie in separate and distinct communities, was
not destroyed, on the contrary the government ha!
>een founded on them, in such separate capacity,
n every instance. " We the people of the Unites
States, &c. do ordain & eltablilh this conftitutior
or the United States of America." " All legif
ative power lhall be vested in a Congress of the
United States." Art. lit Sedt. ift " Reprefenta
ivra and diredt taxes shall be apportioned among
he leveral states, See, according to their respective
lumbers &c.' 2d fedt. A nd again, 'whenvacanciei
hall happen in the reprelentation of any state the
;xrcutive authority thereof lhall iiTue writs," &c.
far, '* IVdfc. " The senate of the United States lhal
lie composed of two Senators from each State
i;holen by the iegiilature &c." 3d Sedt. In the
1 edtion of the President a d Vice-Frefident, th<
lame principle has oeen oblerved. The eledtors
are those of each (late and their numbers fecurec
by expreSs Stipulation, evincing a compadl brought
about by compromile. In Short who ever examine
the instrument from commencement to the end
will find that although the powers of the govern'
rnent have been greatly enlarged, and for will
and neccflary purpoles, yct'tisftiU a compadt be
tween separate communities : And in luch cha
racier its iorm relts, and its powers mult be exe
cuted on the people.
If then the itate charadter has not been annul,
led, but on the contrary the national system whici
has been railed upon it, a league of Separati
communities, Securing by express Stipulation thei
-tlpedtive rights and in;erelts, as well in the or
ganization as the exercise of its powers, it follow:
that the aggregate plan founded on the oppoSiti
principle, mult be abandoned : for on what can i
reft ? Will it be urged that the federal idea was
relinquithed here only, or supposed there was leis
Solicitude to Secure the rights of the larger states ii:
theHoufe of Representatives, than of the fmallei
in the Senate ? or that a boundleSs discretion
Ihould be given the Congress over the number oi
the leveral Hates in one branch, whilst independ
ent of population or other contingence, two mem
bers were Secured to each in the other ? and i;
neir relative numbers form the scale of replan
tation, how can it otherwise be, than by thole
:hey lhall relpedtively contain ? Or upon whai
principle of state Sovereignty, compact, or repre
lentation, can one state Supply its deficiency
from thoSe of ?
The words of the constitution upon this point,
appear So plain and unequivocal, that it must have
iequ'red a mind earnestly lefifting an interest, it
wiiijed to repel, ardently purluing an objedt it
viihed to embrace, to create a doubt on it. 44 Re
presentatives and diredt taxes lhall be apportioned
among the Several states which may be included
within this union according to their reSpedtivs
number's,"&c. Does not this Ihew that the exten
of the reprelentation must depend on that of thi
population in each state, or why the terms 44 theii
lefpedtive numbers," orthatof " apportionment,'
which evinces the neceflity of a distribution a
mong those having a claim founded on a princi
ple ? And can any one read the firft Sentence o;
this paragraph and heSitate to pronounce, it is the
Itates alone who have Such claim, founded on the
principle of their refpedtive numbers ?
If it had been intended that the ratio Ihould be
applied to the population of the union instead 0:
that of the individual states, the whole of that pari
}f the firft Sentence which refpedts apportionment,
was not only unnecessary but improper : For ir
luch cafe the interpolation «f the idea of states
and apportionment could only Serve to confufe
:he SenSe. What was material of that Sentence
might have been Supplied, by amending the 3d.
in the fame paragraph so ss to read thus : "Tt<i
numbers of Reprefeni3tives fliall not exceed one
for every 30.000 counting the whole number of
free persons including thufe bound to lervic«
■or a term of years, and excluding Indians not
axed three fifths of all other persons.'* Thus the
lower of forming the .enefentation upon the reo
de (if America would hav-been complete unletter
d hy state rights, numbers or apportionment.
That the people of America have undcrliood
he rioht of apportionment, as the House of Re
irefentativcs have done, giving the power to
Jongrefs fimplv to fix the ratio of reprelcntation
it 30,000, or (ome other number, and that the
irticle of compact, contatncd in the conflitution,
egulated the reftriue by applying it to the num
>ers of each slate, cannot be questioned. If the
laufe had admitted a probable doubt, upon a
joint so momentous, under the able and en
ightened discussion it received in the slate con
tentions, is it not surprizing it fiiould have cf
•aped notice ? Muu it not imprrfs on the bene
volent mind of the philanthropist, a painful ap
>rehen(ion for the future, in contemplating in
he perfpetlive the profpe&s of those whose
nanly exertions intitle them to it, and who
night be a happy people, if he reflects that it has
>een thedifcovery of the present moment,
he effect isdifceined, and contending interefls
:ave probably fuggefled it !
March 31. LUCIUS.
PRICE or STOCKS.
Six per cents, per £. - 80/51-220/0
Three per cents, - - ' 2 /4-
Deferred fix per cents, - 12J3 12/3 1-2.
Final Settlements - 17/6.
Indents - - - - 12/6
Bank (lock 1-2 (hares, 55 —per cent, advance.
Meteorological Observations.
March, 1792.
D. H Bar. Ther. Wind. Weatk
Monday, 26. 7 30. 3 40 N.E. Cloudy.
2 3°- 3 do.
Tut [day, 27. 7 30. 5 43 N-N-E. Misty.
2 30. o 56 s.s.w. Fair.
Vednrjday, 28. 7 29. 75 54 S, Loudy
2 29.65 70 s.s.w. Rain.
Thursday, 29. 7 29. 7 56 S. \V- Cloudy,
2 29. 72 62 V/. do.
Friday, 30. 7 29. 8c 46 N. Fair.
2 29. 78 60 S-S.wlHazey.
Saturday, 31. 7 30. o 43 N. EJCloudy.
2 30. el 56 N. jFar.
Sunday, SI pi. x. 7 30.25 43 N. W. fiu'r.
2 30. 61 do. j do.
77; is day is publijhed Price 6/6.
By MATTHEW CAREY,
No. 113, Market f.rcet, near fourth Jireet,
The Ladies' Library,
Containing
1 • Miss More's Eflays
i- Gregory' 3 Legacy
3. Lady Pennington's advice
4. Marchioness of Lambert's advice
5. Swift's Letter to a new married Lad?
6. Miss Chapone on Command of temper
7* More's Fables for the Ladies.
Said CARET bat lately publijhed
1. M* Fingal, an epic poem, 2/9 1-2
2. Blair's Sermons, complete in two vols lsf.
3. Neckar's treatifeon Religious Opinions, 6f*
4. Examination of Sheffield's Observations, 4/$
5. American Constitutions, 4/8
6. Doway Bible— neat, 6 dol., elegant soft
7. Vade Mecum, 1/10 1-2
S. Charles Grandiion abridged, j/3
9. Humphrey's poems, bound 2/6, in blue pa
per 1/10 1-2
10. American Jest Book, in 2 parts, bound, 4fs
11. Select Poems, 1/3
12. Think Well On't, 1/10 t-2
35 3. Beauties of Poetry, Britilh and American, 6/
14. Beaitie's elements of moral science, 5/7 1-2
15. The Christian Economy, 1/10 1-2.
%* Sets of the American Mufeutm.
AS several gentlemen in different parts of the
'Jnited States, have been heretofore dijappointed
n their applications for complete Jets of (he Ame~
lean Museum, the printer informs the public, that
is engaged in reprinting the deficient numbers of
he ivork, and has noiv and ivill henceforward
ave a conjlant Jupply of Jets on hand ; fuih gen
lemen, therefore, as please, may be furnifhed ivith
tts neatly bound, in ten volumes, at sixteen dollars.
This ivork ivill be found- to contain at lead as
■reat a variety of political, agricultural, and mif
ellaneous efj'ays as any ever publijhed in America•
Of said Carey may be had, ivbolefale and retail *
bibles, Tejtaments, Spelling-Books, Primers, S^uills 9
' nk-Poivder, JVriting-Paper of various kinds 9
Sonnet-Paper, Pocket- Bocks, Ink-Stands, McJJ'age
mdplaying cards, &c &c> btiaiv
CHESTER TOWN & BALTIMORE
STAGES.
THE Eaftern-lliore Stages, by way of Cheffer
town to Baltimore, start regularly from
fames Thompson's, Indian Queen, Fourth-street,
Philadelphia, every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
lay mornings, precisely ar 7 o'clock, and on the
ame mornings, at four o'clock, from Mr.Grant's
n Baltimore. The cultivation of the country,
ind goodness of the roads, together with the at
ention that lhall be paid by the proprietors, will,
tis hoped, be a fufficient inducement for a pre
erence being given to this rout.
JAMES THOMPSON,
ROBERT HODGSON,
N. B. Light Waggons for hire by Jamei
Thompson, at the Indian Queen.
March 30.ir.tertjlwg traumatism from French papers.
BOURDEAUX, December 11.
TH?S day was held the CIVIC FEAST ; fol
lowed by an inauguration of the united flags of
France, England, the United States of America,
xnd Poland. The Clu-b room was opened at
one o'clock in the afternoon, when the President
attended to receive the gentlemen fromfeveral na
tions, who were invited to the feart. As soon as
the company were seated, the President announced
that the entertainment was begun by giving " Ho
'mage to the Supreme being "as a toast. A reli
gious silence lucceeded this sudden impulse of de
votion to the eternal cause of all things.—Variou;
other toasts were drank, in the course of the en
tertainment, suitable to the occasion. That ol
Mr. Savage, interpreter for the English, Scot!.;
Irilh, and American captains, was remarkable : —
May that union cf nations Jpcedily arrive, loben al
jhall partake of tke fame glafi.—That given b)
Mr. Fenwick, consul for the United States, wa!
thus—To the glory and prosperity of all free nations,
This was highly applauded by the alVembly, a;
was also the fenriment of M. Lafki, a Polish offi
cer—The Jl rift eft union and friendjhip between thi
citizens of England, Scotland, Ireland, the Americai
States, France and Polfrid !
The entertainment being ended, the Prefiden
invited the guests into the common hall of feflions
where the inauguration of the flags was inftantlj
made, with the repeated applauses of the afiembiy
The President then made a speech suitable to thi
occafion—>-Mr. Fenwick, also, pronounced a dif
course which was highly extolled.—The president
in a very polite answer, requeftcd him to depo!it<
his difcourfe t in the office of the society, for publics
tion; and that honorable mention should be iTiadi
thereof on the verbal process. M. Laflci, Polifl
Lieutenant, of the Corps du Genie, made likewili
a speech, and, was complimented in like manner
The President's Oration was as follows :
Citizens, brethren, and'fx\er,ds> offever al nations j
You alfo t o'ur brethren and allies !
The moment is arrived,'fo interesting to ever;
friend of humanity. Nations long separated bi
reciprocal hatreds and local prejudices, consent t<
forget them all, and ally themselves in tire bond:
of fraternal friendfftip.
Thanks to that eternal Providence, who hai
put it into the hearts of freemen to abolish thof<
difTentions, which have hitherto divided rxjankinc
only to destroy them.
Yl»u, whole per/idious instigations, ftimulatec
by the prejudices of antiquity, have pointed th<
murdering sword against the bosom of your coun
try, iiften at length to the voice of reason, anc
come here to enjoy a fpe&acle so ravishing to hu
manity ; consider well this our convocation, whicl
unites so many men from so many different coun
tries J behold all ranks, all di&in&ions meltet
down into perfect equality ; behold the intoxica
tion of joy and pleasure pofleffing every mind
»«nd then judge if all the despots of the world
with all their priie and splendor, were ever thi
cause of half so much happiness.
Forget, then, *vour ancient prejudices, an<
make yourselves Worthy of the blood that flows ii
your veins ; upon the altar of your country taki
that sacred oath which bind* you even to die ii
her defence : but if reason has n© influence ove
you, at least forbear to poison the free air whicl
we breathe j and pay some refpeft to this piac<
which is the abode of liberty.
Fellow citizens ! You fee the flags of four grea
nations, acknowledged free, united under th<
fvmbols of fre.edom and friendfhip, suspended ove;
this hail j they are the happy signals of at alii
ance, which will soon be perfected.
Contemplate thac solemn a& upon which reft;
the fabric of our government j those rights which
tyranny fhail never aboliili, and which shall on(
day be acknowledged the legal system of the uni
verse !
Let that standard, in particular, be dear to yoi
which calls to remembrance the immortal 141!:
of July, 1789; that day forever memorable, wher
all Europe law the huge QolufTus of fourteen cen«
turies tumbledown into that abyss of non-entit)
in which it (hall forever remain.
Ye defendants of ancient Albion, separated fron
talis our continent by'fome ancient revolution o,
the globe $ unite witii us to repair the disorders o:
nature, and to destroy those prejudices, which hav<
too long separated nations, who ought to have beer
only ambitious to rival each other in the iove 01
liberty. The waters of the Stint and of the
Thames mingle in the vast ocean, and when there)
the nicefl observer cannot distinguish a (hade o;
difference between them—Be it so with us, like
wise, anJ let us be one and the fame p«ople in ad
vancing the interests of liberty.
This standard (of the United States) which fc
much attradls your attention by the variety of it!
colours, belongs to thcjfe bold revolters who sirs
raised the emblem of liberty on the ihores of the
new world ! It is the badge of the union that in
di (Toluol y exills between thirteen powerful states.
who when their common country is in danger'
consider her cause as individually their own. Ii
was under this standard that Washington, thai
citizen chief who, firft of mankind, had the envi
able honor to command the hearts and hands of a
nat'on that declared itfelf free and independent j
under this standard it was that he conduced hi;
countrymen to honor, independence, and vi&ory,
Wherever he marched, his attempts were crownec
with the most brilliant success How could he
otherwise than conquer ?---Libsrty was his object,
and the Almighty protected his cause.
Frenchmen ! you were witnefles to the gener
ous efforts of the Americans j they thought nt
facrifice too great for their darling Liberty $ for
tune and blood were laviflily spent to attain her j
eight entire years did they struggle with inconceiv
able difficulties to conquer that monster Despo
tism, which for a century had been suspended over
them j while we, the posterity of those Gauls, who
carried the spirit of liberty and independence to
the capitol itfelf • we, who have been bowed down
t? the dij* fzr more than fourteen hundred years;
a single day has fufficfcd to break our fetters, to
overthrow a despotic throne, and upon the ruins
thereof to erect a fabric facied to justice and the
equal rights of man !
And you, generous an 3 magnanimous nation
(Poland) defendants of tlie ancient Sarrnatians
who fir It dismembered that empire under which th«
Romans haU subjugated the universe, renouncing
that spirit of party which so long rent the bofoni
of your country,an J cjnJu£iid by a citizen-kin g,
you have at length dei>royed that barbarous code
or legi(l a-riorr, under which you have folong groan
ed. You will now do more, you will second the
exertions of the rriends of humanity j you wil
annihilate fcodal systems \ you will restore youi
fellow citizens to the true dignity of man j an«
will not indulge the base idea, that the bulk o,
your nation has no taste for the charms of liberty
Th»u daughter of the /kies, whom the E:erna
Mind created to enlighten mortals and dilfipat
the mists of that error in which they have beei
wholly involved, sublime PhiJolophy ! finilh th
work, and inspire human hearts with the love o
peace } and remove from thern f>iever chat fpir'i
of ferocity which has for so many ages seclude.
them from each other ; inform them, inculcat
upon them, that God placed men upon this eartl
to love each other, to afford reciprocal aid in dil
Ciefs j and not to hate and tear each other to pie
ces : breathe into them a love of univerlal liberty
which is the source of all virtue ; and perfuad'
them, th*t when adtuuted by this facied flame
man is capable of all things.
It was this spirit that adiuated the three hun
dred Lacedemonians at the fatal pass of Theimo
pyle, and enabled them to difcomfit innumerabl
millions of Petfian slaves, it was this that prece
ded the Grecian standards on the plains of Mara
thon and Salamine j it was this that foltly whif
pered to the heart of Brutus, when he condemne>
his own son to death, for conspiring agalnft th
liberties of his country ; in fine, it was th s tha
by unfolding the manly virtuesof that nation, an
by {Simulating their courage, laid open to thee
the road to immortality.&c.--&c.
[The conclusion is thus.]---" May the age c
gold lucceed the age of iron 5 and may the daiv
of the nineteenth century expand into a gloriou
morning for all mankind j who, by forgettin
their prejudices and mutual hates, will exhibit t
the Supreme creative power an immense famil
of brethren, united under the standard of liberty
and the empire of law.
The above was fuccceded by a discourse pro
nounced by Mr. Fen wick, consul for the Unite
States of America ; as follows :
" Gentlemen,
" I am sensibly affedted by those sentiments o
esteem and friend/hip which the citizens of Franc
express for my countrymen, the people of thi
United States. Be afiared that the inhabitants o
rhe American States will eiteem themleives happ
to have it in their power to teftify what an inter
e$ they take in efTeotialJy serving a country, ti
which they are united by every tie of gratitude
and attachment for part services : those ties ar
every day becoming stronger j and your own glo
rious revolution calls to our minds thole great con
ititutional principles, which both nations have a
dopted j inspiring us with ail the energy of grati
tude for those national favors received from yoi
in the crisis of our political regeneration ; and in
dining us to wiili you the perpetual enjoyment o
those which you have allilied us in pro
curing for ourselves j we, on our part, hope for
la (ting enjoyment of the fame blellings, by ou
abedience to the laws, and a spirit of peace am
unanimity amongst our citizens } being fully con
vinced that a fubmifilon to our constitutional code
and love tor good order is the only means of pre
serving to our nation the bleflings that liberty pro
:ures. May the mutual obligations that unit
France and the American State?, form alio a uni
)n amongst all nations, contribute to the efta
iliihment of universal harmony, and make on
jreat family of the human race."
To this the President made the following re,ply
<s Brother and Friend,
(i Our national society, with the deepest fenli
»ility, accepts your wilh.es, that the United State
America, whom you represent, may second u
n the advancement of our revolution, as we dii
hem in their infant struggles for liberty. It wil
>c no more than candid in us to confefs, that fon'n
i-ears ago, when the great question of afiittinj
America in her revolt, was agitated in the king 1
:ouncil, policy had more sway over us than an*
attachment to a people whom we hat
lardly known. From the time of agitating thi.
lueftion, however, we may date the era of Frencl
iberty. Our soldiers and citizens who afiiltei
(ou upon the banks of the Delaware, or on th<
hores of the valt Chelapeke, in rearing you.
fcandard of liberty, when they returned inrt
'ranee, animated by what they had seen of thi
lappinefs of freemen, expanded the sacred fiam<
>f liberty, and united in demanding freedom 01
tenth ! Their voices were heard to the remote,
orners of the empire, and the revolution inliant
y followed.
We accept with pleafurc*your good wiflies so:
mr general prosperity—they are the ekpreflion:
»f a man of sincere heart, whole firft care is the
>reservation of liberty to his fellow men."
~• • N. B. At the above en
ertainment were given forty-one toasts, the moii
emarkable of which are the following—Homagr
:o the Supreme Being—-The sovereignty of
the people—The division and the limit ol
jowers—'The philosophers who labored for the
;ood of mankind, Sidney, Hampden, Price,
rranklin, Voltaire, Roufleau, Helvetius, Locke
Leibnitz, Milton—Stanhope, Priestley, Thoma;
Paine, Washington, and other defenders of liber
> The English nation—The United States oi
America—Poland, and her citizen-king—rThe
patriotic Englilhmen who firft met to celebraM
the French Revolution—The Revolution Societ)
)f London—Semoßville, who so worthily represent
:he French nation at the court of Genoa—Tria
J ur y» the true palladium of French liberty--
1 he decree of the National Ao*embly that rencun
:es the right of foreign conquest—The decree o.
he Afiembly the emigrants ; may the)
:rown their labours by a decree explanatory o
Tjinjrterial responsibility, to preserve the natior
from the treacherous machinations of the tools ol
;hc executive powcr--The re-union of Avignon;
Src. to the French empire—To the fouls of the
vidtims of religious fauaticifm in all ages — The
UNLIMITED LIBERTY OF THE PR£SS The
patriotic Editors of newspapers, who like true
centinels of liberty, give us the earliest informa
i ion of plots against it—The union of all parties j
Frt e ! iberty to every mode of religious worlhip.
Parisy Dec. 31. It is remarkable- that the
French peasantry are much better clad of lace
than heretofore. This change may be variously
accounted for. I. The pealants are a class of
people who have gained molt by the revolution,
the legislature being now more engaged in promo
ting the happiness of the peasantry, than any
other denomination of people, the soldiery ex
cepted. 2. The fear of being over-taxed no
longer prevents them from drefling according t<T
their reaJ abilities — under the old government,
which was in fa& worse than the Turkifii, they
found it necefl'ary to conceal their hard-earned
aitrance of treafurewith as much care as if it had
>een stolen. 3. Freemen will naturally habit
hemfelves with more neatness than llaves. The
elebrated Diderot, when in Ruflia, exprefled his
"urprize to the empress, that her fubjedts in ge
leral were fomilerably ragged and ill-clad—The
mprefs answered the phiiofopher thus — IVhy
would you have these wretches tt pay any regard
0 a body which dees not belong to them '?
"January 2. What has RufTu gained after all
ler vi&ories ? The town of OczaJcow with its
erritory !— a spot of land, Jess than a span in
:omparifon to the empire—and even this mifera
jle acquisition was made at the expense of two
■\undred thousand men that perished by the sword,
hardlhip, or sickness. Anftria retains old Orio
way and some miserable villages of huts scattered
ovor a desert and ungrateful land—-but this
wretched conquest coll one hundred and fifty
thousand men of her belt troops, and 300,000,000
of florins. On the other hand, the Turks have
expended in their last war with Rulfia no less than
250,000,000, of piastres, facrificed two hundred
thousand men, and have had their best and moll
fertile territories laid wafte---Such are the fruits
of war !---and there are still found men whe
chirft for [it, and who stir up the heads of na
cions to become the executioners of their fubjedts.
We will hope that these projedls of blood anc
cannibal plans of devaluation will be difcouragec
<n future by the growing reason of mankind ;
and that the people will not in future fuffer them
lelves to be conduced, like a vile herd, to the
daughter, to fatisfy the unreasonable desires 01
che inordinate pafiions of a few ambitious cha
adters.
'For the NATIONAL GAZETTE. "
UNIVERSAL PEACE.
MANY monaichs and philosophers have
talked of universal peace, yet for want o]
me means all their schemes have proved abortive.
i>Jotwithftanding the system of Roulleau may be
iubjedt to some exceptions, our good friends the
French have in modern times renewed this idea—
fenhble as they to be of the folly of nation
al wars, as a step towards this dclirabJe end, the)
nave renounced the idea of conquest.
A citizen of these United States proposes 2
convention of nations for forming a constitution.
:o put this projedt into execution, having cer
tainly difcoverea that the fuiface of this globe ii
fjbjedi to perpetual and periodical changes* anc
that above two millions of acres annually emerge
from the ocean in some places, while the fame
quantity is overwhelmed in others by magnetic
tides.—These principles are now pretty wel
known in America and Europe, and are proved
1 ft. By the stratum of sea fhelJs, in every country
Delow tne fuiface of .the earth—zdly. By th<
lame kind of shell univeifally found on the top:
if mountains—3dly. By a multitude of ancien
ind modern historical fadb. Were these Unitee
states fubjedt to a monarch, by the Jaws of na
ture and of nations these new-discovered lano!
become his property, but fuhjedfc as the)
are to a republican government, the cafe is oil
erent ; besides the territories of the United States
are already very extensive.
If the wandering Indian discovers on the sea
ihore an oyster defer ted by the waves, nobody
denies the right which the laws of nature allow
nim topoflels it. Who then has a better right tc
recommend the disposal of these new lands than
the perlon who made the firlt discovery of the
laws by which these changes are governed ? In
ihort, the out-lines of the present plan is, that all
national disputes may be fettled by law, and that
the two millions of acres, annually may be ap
propriated as a fund to defray the ex:cnce of tht
universal government, and for other purposes j
that all nations ihall partake of the advantages
of the fund, as they adopt the constitution, and
not sooner—here need be no cutting throats for
poflefiion—there will be nothing to do, but wait
wich patience until the inhabitants of the watrv
lernent quietly surrender up the premises. It is
true, all ichemes at firft view are apt to be looked
upon in an unfavorable light, i will however beg
leave to propose a question for arithmeticians :—
Suppose these new lands not to be fold but rented
as they appear, at the rate of one dollar per acre
per annum, which according to the mean rate of
land throughout the world, would be very mode
rate, and Juppofe the money put out to use at the
awful interest of fix per cent per annum, to be
• aid as it becomes due, this will be a perpetual
-■nnuity j there would be added every year to the
rincipal not only the interest but two millions of
iollars. What would be the amount at the end
• f the firft century, and what at the end of the
econd ? It is certainly known that before very
many years it would amount to more of that dir
y dross call the precious metals y than there is in
he whole world, & as it requires something more
cnan five thousand years for this globe to be re
generated, in time all the land would become
public property. Should such calculations ap
pear better in theory than practice, I remark,
chat the will of the great Dr. Franklin is known
is well as that of the celebrated Fortune Ricard,
if France. These two famous financiers have al
io bequeathed immense sums of money to poste
rity for certain good purposes, calculated with the
annual addition of the interest Co the capital.
March 29. Magnet.
Wajfungton, in tie Territory of Columbia.
A PREMIUM
OF a lot in this City to be designated by
impartial judges and 50odollars ; or a
medal or that value, at tlie option of the
party, will be given by the Commissioners
of the Federal Buildings, to the pcrfon,
who, before the fifteenth day of July 1792,
shall produce to them the moll approved
plan, if adopted by them, for a Capitol to
be erected in this city, and 250 dollars, or
a medal for the plan deemed next in merit
to the one they itiall adopt. The building
to be of brick, and to contain the following
apartments, to wit. „ _ .
A conference room 7 Sufficient to
A room for the Re- i accommodate
prefentatives I 3 co peri pus
-> each. .
A lobby or antichamber to the latter, f
A Senate room of 12CO square feet
area.
An antichamber or lobby to the last. J
12 rooms of 600 square feet area, each, for
committee rooms and clerks offices, to be
of half the elevation of the former. Draw
ings will be expe£ted of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and feftions
through the building in such directions as
may be neceflary to explain the internal
structure, and an estimate of the cubic feet 1
of brickwork composing the whole mas; of 1
he walls. The Commissioners.
March J4, 1792.
Wajkingttm, in ike Territory oj Columbia.
A PREMIUM
OF 500 dollars, or a medal of that value,
at the option of the party, will be giv
en by the Commissioners of the Federal
Buildings to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July next, shall produce to
them the most approved plan, if adopted by
tliam, for a President's house to be erected
in this city. The site of the building, if
the artist will attend to it. will of course
influence the afpe£t and outline of hisplan,
and it's destination will point out to him
the number, size, and distribution of the
apartments. It will be a recommendation
of any plan, if the central part of it may be
detached and ereCted for the present, with
the appearance of a complete whole, and
be capable of admitting the additional parts,
in future, if they shall be wanting. Draw
ings will be expected of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and feftions
through the building in such directions as
may be neceflary to explain the internal
ftruiture ; and an estimate of the cubic feet
of brickwork, composing the whole mass of
the walls. The Commissioners.
March 14, 1792.
"DAN away on TVedncfday night lajl, a Negro
Man, about twenty-three jears old, bad on a
hght-colou* ed short coat : took *,with bint a fair of
leather breeches and a fair-of green Jiuff do. a bea
ver hat half warn, narrow brim and deep crown 3
a pair of bojts ; jlriped cotton and Jilk /locking'—■
be is Jlim made—reads and writes a legible band—
has, lam informed, procured a pass and a certifi
cate of his being afi ecman. It is probable be will
endeavor to get on board some vejjel, either at this
place or New-Tor k. He has a small fore under his
chin, occajioned by cutting out a wen. I will give
Ten Dollars reward for securing him, if in this city ;
Twenty Dollars if taken in New-York, or enj
other place of the fame distance, and pay ail rea
!:nable expcnces.
ANDREW MOOKF, Spruce-Jlreet, No. 112.
Philadelphia, March 9, 1792.
H O W E L L's
LARGE MAP of PENNSYLVANIA•
THIS work is engraved in ripe mojl elegant fly ley
and will be ready for delivery in the Spiin
It is 63 inches long and 36 inches wide, and for the
most part very full of work (except some small places
if which materials ivere not to be badJ and ivas
zvbolly compiled from actual Jurvcys, acquired at
great expenie of m'.nfy,and more than four years la
bour , and from its man fejl public utility, the Legis
lature has been pleased to grant the
\ilvi of three hundred pounds.
This map exhibits the County and Towr.Jhip Dim
vjjionsy and tbofe of the Surveyors Dijlrifls in the
New-Pur chafe, Donation and Depreciation Lands j
rbe waters, portages, and the Canal mountains and
valleys, 1 cads, towns, &c.
He thanks the Public for their very liberal fub
tription, and informs them that it will not be cUfed
before the middle of April next. He fells his sma l l
maps, on canvajs, folded and cas'dfor pocket car
riage, at 1/06, and plain at 8/4.
READING HOWELL.
North ffhjlreet t No. 88 — March 1.
TEN POUNDS REWARD.-
RAN away, a Negro lad about seventeen
years old, who left the fubferiber
sometime in August last. He goes by the
name of Leven ; is of a yellowish colour,
and about five feet high. Pie is supposed
to have gone to the Delaware state. Any
person bringing the said negro to tlie fub
feriber, lhall be entitled to the above re
ward ; and any person giving such infor
mation as will enable the owner to reco
ver him again, shall be entitled to one half
the above sum, which will be paid by
Thomas Mil e s.
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE , NO. 239, HIGH-S TRE *. T
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA*
J
an
Zr
C' «
E- ;r>
r— <T>
£-3.
a o
£ 5
2. £
o o
r cr
a>