[Numb. 3 of Vol. ll.]
jEx/rods from a letter from a gentleman ir
NfvJcrjey to his corrcfpondent in Phi
t ladelphit, dated Sept. 5, 1792.
" A S I have acknowledged the rece pt
jL of your queries, contained in your
letter of Jan. lad, requeuing me to give
you my opinion of the late law of our
legiflatu. e in regard to the manufacturing,
society, my reason then for not entering
on that fubjrft vras, that I expe&ed some
one of the conservators of the rigl.ts oi
the people (I mean a gentleman of the
law) would undoubtedly step forward and
(hew the public the unconftitutionaiity of
that law, and also the unexampled partiali
ty between their constituents of the fame
branch of manufactory ; but as my ex
pe&ations in this are not answered, I will
give you my candid opinion of such parts
thereof as I conceive moil exceptionable,
with such obfervat'oiis as may arise in my
mind oil that fubjeft: Perhaps on my
coming (hort of a jlifl delineation, your
more tnlightened iniT>d will be stirred up
to put this matter in it 3 proper colours,
and be the means, in the hands of provi.
dence, to quiet the minds of a numerous
and worthy class of citizens which I find
are now greatly disturbed at the principles
our legifl iture has adopted in that law.
The firft fe&ion gives leave to the manti
fafhiring society to have a capital of four
millions ofdollars. This immense sum, or
one fourth of it in ready calh, is fufficieir
•in the hands of cunning men to supply
their manufa&ory with raw materials at
the firft coll for any or all defer iptions o[
1 manufa&ory needful in the United States.
■The effe£l this will have on the private
mechanic mull be ruinous, as they are gene
rally;obliged to puThafc raw materials from
merclnnt; at perhaps 25 per cent 01 the
fir ft cost ; witness the tinner, rope-maker,
hatter saddler, fuller, dyer, coppar-lmith,
brass founder, coach-maker, tr.nner, shoe
maket, harness-maker, printer, &c. any
or all of the above enumerated callings
they have a right to pursue as the ast now
.Hands : In my opinion they ought to have
been reltridled to certain articles or branch
es of manufactory, as corporate bodies
generally are.
The fourth fe&ion exempts the compa
ny from a : l taxes for even liate or county
use on their tenements, hereditament*,
goods and chattels for the term of ten
years.—Here it may be proper to taks in
the sth feftion,which exempts all the arti
ficers that may be in their employ from all
taxes whatsoever on their o cupations
within the compass of fix miles square, a
space that may contain as many workmen
as the city of London. Can it be pofli
ble that the legislature did not know or
advert to their own law, that a number of
mechanical employments were taxed for
their occupations viz. grift-mills, fulling
mills, saw mills, furnaces, forges, tan
yards, &c. These occupations have in
the last war paid heavy taxes, and ftiil pay
them, belides an equal affeiTment with the
farmer on all their landed and other pro
perty ; indeed I have thought this a very
partial law, and have wondered at its not
being repealed long since, for why should
a mechanic be taxed for an occupation he
served seven years to learn, and gets his
bread honeftjy by ? with as much justice
a landed man might be taxed for being a
farmer ; but, alas ! our legislators are ge
nerally farmers j besides there is a poll
tax on all our single men that the manu
facturing people are exempt wholly from.
The thirty-sixth fedtion exemp'.s all
their artificers from military duty except
in cases of imminent danger. In the late
law of Congress they hare exempted such
charadiers as the different or each fiate
fliall think proper, and hr.7e ordained that
every male from eighteen years to forty
five, except as before excepted, (hall fur
nidi themselves with arnis, accoutrements,
&c.. which will cast at least 6'. ics. be
sides keeping them in repair, and they are
under heavy penalties if they do not ap-
By P. F R E N EA U : Publified Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum ,
WEDNESDAY, November 7, i-jq?..
pear four dap in a year to learn military
■ luty. I have been info*med that there
are private mechanics in Jersey that have
from fix to twelve apprentices an;l jons,
particularly in the fhoemaking, tanning
and hatting, which occupations the com
pany have publicly avowed to carry on ;
iuppofe only fix in number, it will colt the
master out of hi 3 litttle flock 291. to fur
nifh his lads ; this wi'l be a heavy and
continual tax on the private mechanic,
which these monied gentlemen are by the
New-Jersey law wholly exempt from
1 hefe extraordinary privileges granted to
them and their workmen will enable them
with their large capital to draw in all the
journeymen of whatever branch they
please to follow, throughout the United
States, which will ast fully up to a mono
poly, and will inevitably cause the ruin of
thousands of worthy families, which will
finally operate against the iinpoft duty.
Perhaps, fir, you may here make a remark,
and lay that by these extraordinary pri
vileges to those monied gentlemen the
community will be greatly benefited,as they
will be enabled to fell their fnoea and other
wares cheaper than the private manufac
turer car. pofftbly afford ; this undoubted
ly will be the cafe ; what follows but a
general bankruptcy to the private mar.u
faftuvefs ? You wdl here fuffer me to put
a plain cafe ; suppose Congress ftiould take
it into their heads to eflablifn a set of rner
chants, exempting them from the import
law, surely by their not paying any duty
they would be enabled greatly to under
sell those merchants who were obliged by
law to pay a duty, and by wh ch theircuf
toineis would b; greatly benefited; what
would be the consequence but a jull difTo
ution of the government, or a repeal ol
inch an unjust law, and that very soon, as
the body of merchants are a set of gentle
men ofdeferved weight in any government,
and altho' the mechanics are rot so weigh
ty a body, I think they defcrvc the famt
justice trom any legislature, and if then
power is not so great as to cause an im
mediate repeal of this ast, yet by flow de
grees I think some material change in go
vernment must and will h?pp:n if this a-ft
is not repealed. Under the above obfer
rations the cafe will Hand nearly thus ;
25 per cent will be saved to the company
by the r large capital, ten years exemptior
from all taxation, their workmen free froir
a poll-tax and on their occupations ; the
private mechanic, •■- ha; ; . the la'.e wai
been robbed of his property and ferve
his country faithfully, striving now to di
fo.nething for his children, ami p ihap
paying larre intcreft for money, pay-in?
the general government a heavy tax foi
all his family wears and other neceflarie:
to support them, paying all affeffmeiits tc
l ipport the (tate government, paying ever
for his calling, and serving the public foui
days in a year in the militia : the C9mp»-
ty't workmen exempt from military duty
whilst those men who saved our countiy
from perdition, were, to my certain know
ledge, obliged through dire necessity, tt
Tell their hard-earned certificates for 2!/(
in the pound to some of the-fc very mei
who now come forward with this fchemi
of general oppreflioti. To make govern
ment fit eafv upon the minds of the peo
pie, the legislature, if it is. a wife and jufl
one, will make their laws as equitable a:
pomble to the good of the whole com
munity ; if this under consideration is fueh,
I r.-.ufl confefs my inability to fee it in that
light. tlad the gentlemen of ihe manu
fadturing society come forward and wished
an ast 01 incorporation to establish them
to go into such branches as the United
States were deficient in, ai d them enu
merated, and the law reftrifted to certain
occupations, which is the cafe in all cor
porate bodies that have come to mv know
ledge, no one I prcfume would have had
reason to apprehend ruin to their families
through their means, a«d I think it would
have been right in the legislature to have
granted them some privileges, but not to
have exempted tliem from militia duty, as
this town of Paterfon may in a fliort time
contain mora able bodied, healthy men
than the whole state besides, but if they
are not trained to arms, of what' life can
they be to repel mvafions ; this will, as far
as their number goes, defeat the good in
tentions of Congress in their militia law,
for I think it cannot be supposed thev
meant to exempt any but some particular
eharatters.
The twenty-fifth fedlion gives the com
pany the privilege to raise 100,000 dol
lars on the public ; Without giving you
my opinion on the evil tendency of lot
teries in general, I will just remark that
the r6th feflion gives the company au
thority to diffblve themselves whenever
they please, and put this enormous sum
which they may raise on their fellow citi
zens into their pockets and laugh at the
enfy credulity of the legillature. This
feftion, in my opinion, flionjd have been
attended with aclaufethat thisfuni should
be fairly laid out within this state in their
necessary works, and the accounts laid be
fore th' legislature for their and the pub
lie's fatisfa&ion.
The feventetnth fe£h'on sets out with
a flouriih of cutting canals, the advantage
of which will not be confined to the mem
bers of the society ; therefore, they
ought to have a returnable toll. The 20lh
feftion gives them authority to demand
fuch,and as much toll astheir directors may
think proper, nit to exceed 15 per cent,
on the sum advanced, giving the public nc
credit ; ir the hundred thousand doll ir;
raised on them by lottery, and it also gives
their dire&ors' agents authority to Hop
any flat or raft of lumber until the toll i;
paid—this mud certainly be thought a
noil generous and patriotic scheme ; they
itirely will have the blefiings of poflerity
on their immaculate heads ! Indeed, dial]
I winder if the ingenious Mr. Trumbull,
with his inimitable pencil is not immedi
ately employed, left their goodness to the
public may fiip the attention of the sue
eeeding generation, to draw a portrait ol
a bnlliant yatch, going through the h lis.
woods and vallies, decorated with plated
fides o r silver, her prow the emblem ol
liberty, studded with the mod brilliant
diamonds, oars of solid silver, manned with
a tanner, shoemaker. hatter, saddler, (lain
-r of linen, dyer, fuller, rope-maker, cop
per-smith, brass-sounder, coach-maker,
watch-maker, and a printer for cickfwain,
1'! in the emblems of Neptune, with the
Contriver of this very liberal ait, fitting
in the poop, on a cushion of purple, ftuf
Fed with down, edged with golden tiuie',
in shining robes, crowned with laurel
shewing the rowers a purse, inferibed.
Pull uf> my lads, I iv'll male yOu at rich ai
urirjus ! A certain character seated a-mid
'nips, with a hawk putting a flea in his
ear, whilpering, the child (hall be called,
Anthony. On the prow, which bears the
emblem of liberty in solid gold, studded,
with the moil brilliant diamonds, the great
and molt honorable Col. D. with a moll
superb silver trumpet, proclaiming liberty,
iberty and property to you the sons of
New-Jerfeyj his tremendous voice will
inake the bull frogs in this fame canal Ikip
about and hollow oloodiinouns ! bloodnnouns i
but they w 11 be scarcely heard ; the silver
oars keeping time with the songs of gra
utude that will be sung by the widows
and orphans whose tea s this disinterested
and beneficent, great, good and right ho
norable Governor D. has, by hi" benevo
lence dried up, silenced their groans, and
placed beyond the lead poifibility of want
for the future.
But to go on with this famous 17th
feftion ; it given the directors' agents
power to enter any m; n's land for the pur
pose of making canals, but that they (hall
transmit a draught thereof to the govern
or, and to alter their plans if they please,
trar.aa;tting such alterations :o him ; but
[Total No. 107.]
it does not give tin's honest man any power
to alter their plan, nor to hear the corn
plaints of the aggrieved landholder, no;'
to redress his grievances. It seems to me
that this parade of words is a nullity in
itfelf, as they might an well have ordered
their plans and their alterations of plans
to be laid before John a-Nokes.' " The
nexi clause is of more consequence, and
on examination, with common sense and
candor, will be thought against the confti
tntion, and what no legislature has a right
to adopt, as I think it takes a way the in
herent right of a iubje£t in a civil compadK
1 lie flieriff is empowered & commanded tr»
-all a jiry, perhaps he with a number of
the jury may be interested, by being fub
iCnbers to the manufactory, to enter with
us pofTe (for it appears to me to be no
better) on any man's land, value it as they
think proper, their verdict to be returned
o t!lt; court, and if they have pro
needed ftriaiy to the words of the ast, the
udge is bound like a Have to confirm their'
udgment. whether'he think it right or
tfrong : If the mechanics and landholders
n Jersey submit to this law without feck
ng redress by all legal means in their pow
-f I think them Haves to the last deprcc,
and tit to he fern to the Weft Indies' I
belie.ve it is indiTputable that this law was
fabricated in Philadelphia, and brought
ip to the AfTembly, ready cut and dry'd."
■' To what heights of avarice and defpa:-
fm will not human nature if it is
aot in the power of its fellow citizens to
.lop its career i The lands proper for
:anals are generally near rivers, or at the
head of common navigation, and. cleared
or meadow. To take 250 feet in width,
lad be fubjtft to have any or all parts of
t injured liy carts bringing gravel from
die fait land for the life oi the banks mav*
ui many cases, take and spoil all the mea
low belonging to a valuable farm, and
ronfequently prevent stock from being;,
■aifed, and thefupport of the f.mily cut
)ff. They are farther empowered to take
lown mills ir they are in their way ; there
ire griltm lis on the Raratan and Mill
tone, that, if taken down, the inhabitants
or 33 miles round would want bread in
t common drought. And all these rights
md properties to be taken from the owner
y.thout his will and For wh*jt
vVhy that a set of rich men might rcceive
[5 P tr cent, for their money, and naviga
ion Hopped to the pnor without the mo
ley being paid immediately. How it was
joffible that men of sense and chiefly of
anded p-operty could eltablifli tin's prece
dent I know not, as it unhinges all the
• gilts and properties of any subject in the
way of the manufa&uring focic'.y. I have
reard the following queilions aiked more
hail once : Think you, that any of the
alking or leading members were bribed ?
infwer, no. Were they generally fuhferi
3ers to the manula&uring fclicme i an
wered, Ibelieve they were. If so, I think
:hey have catched at a feather and loit the
jotden hall. Itltill railes my wonder when
[ consider there were gei.tlemtn of the
aw both in the aff.mbly and council, and
ee none of their names in the minority,
"it the chief jultice. It was by that class
jf ciiizens generally that the unconlb'tu
tional law of Great-Britain, for taking
money without cur consent, was expofetf)
md the people Itirred up to refiilartce*}
hut now a lav/ is made I y their connivance
to take landed property from their consti
tuents, without theircosfcnt,and they ate
as hullicd as mice in a cheefr : I do net
wish to call the lead refledio » > ar.y clam
of hoselt men whatsoever ; but thole th;>t
know the will of their Lord, and do it
not, ought to be beat with many ftriprt. 1 *
" Perhaps by what I have advanced,
you msy think it my opinion, that no im
provements Ihould be made iu ourcountrv
by canals : by 110 means, I think it a mt ft
noble art, and ought to be prosecute i
wherevet there is conveniencv for inch
woiks ; but that it fhouli be done byconsent of the proprietors of the foil, for
if the fence of the law is taken down in
one inilanee, it may be-a prelude to tin
hinge all property, and no m:in can feel
himself fafe, nor pall his fig tree Ins own,
that another can by law rake fro;u» him
whenever lie plejfes.''
P. S. " Looking over the second
section with tnore attention than at tint,
I observed a clauie in these word«, viz
•' or making all fucli commodities or arti
cles, as (hall not be prohibited by law."
Here I think is an opportunity for the le
gislature to do some j 1111 ice to their own
law—to the manufacturing focieiy, and
to the mechanics generally, by compelling
them, the foeiety, to come forward and
point out to them, the legislature, all such
a' tides and manufactories as they vvilh to
carry on. Then by giving time, by ad
vertifement, for the mechanics to came
forward and shew cause wily any particu
lar branch of manufactory Ihoulu not be
prosecuted by the company. This, I ap
prehend, would be worthy of wife and ho
ned men, whom providence, thro' their
fellow citizens, has placed in a conspicu
ous station, to do equal justice to their
COnstituents ; caim the minds of thole who
now apprehend ruin; and fettle the Hate in
tranquility. In my next, I (hall endea
vour to shew that the impott duty bears
harder on the mechanics and poor, than
on any other class of citizens in the Uni
ted States."
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
Turin, Aug. ti. This day the sons of
Count d'Artois set out from this capital for
Cobleuce, to join the prince, their father.
The king is soon to depart for the army in
Savoy. Prepat ations for war are goingon
b'fifldv although it be not a&ually declared.
The season, however, is Co far advanced
that operations can scarcely take place be
fore winter sets in.
Paris, Aug. 17. Since the horrible scene
on the 10th a fort of calm has taken place
in this capital ; but it is wholly deceitful
and betokens dill further excelfes and trou
bles. The national assembly seem to parti
cipate in the general tranquility, but are
not a little alarmed at the confequeuces
that may entile from so dreadful a slaugh
ter, and which may, in part, be attribut
ed to their agency.
Petersburg, July 24. The day before yes
terday the graiil-Dutchefs was brought to
bed of a princess, who is baptized by the
name of OJga Pawlowna. When her
•birth day is celebrated, the fame opportu
nity will be taken to celebrate the peace
with Turkey, and probably the luccefs of
'the Empress over the Polanders, in doing
away their new constitution. Indeed, it was
raadnefs for the Poles ever to think seri
ously of refilling the Ruffian power, efpeci
a! ly when it is considered that had they been
able todedroy the Ruffian armies, the Au
il'rian and Prussian would have indantly
supplied their place.
London, Aug. 28. With what complacen
cy the literary and aridocratical tyrants
ot their species view the llorm that has
now gathered into a head against France!
Thank God! (they exclaim) France will
now be deluged in biood ! no longer (hall
we hear of the barbarity of (ingle murders
—the lliocking cruelty of killing our fellow
creatures in detail is happily over, and now
they will be murdered as they ought to be,
according to the reason of kings, in whole-
JaU.
Paris, Sep. 3. " There can be no doubt,
in the nature of things, that the French, if
they please, have a right to eftablifli a re
public. There is no doubt but that the
king has all along been falfe to his public
and has excited every means
in his power to prevent the march of the
constitution which he swore to execute.
The intrigues of both parties in France
were drawn out to a length that in itfelf
was ruin ! untill the horrid and sanguinary
manifelto of the duke of Brunfwick came
forth, and made the republican party des
perate. 1 hen it was that all hopes of a
compromise between the Feuillants and Ja
cobins were bladed, and after a lad 'inef
fectual effort at a junction, they came to a
conflict, the refnlt of which is well known.
Ihe Feuillants do not now affect to con
ceal, tlr.it the king's duplicity went much
further than they h3d any idea of. They
knew of his improvident wafts of the civil
lid—they knew of hi* maintaining troops
at Coblenee—they ascribed all this to the
emotion of • veak mind, easily agitated by
appeals to hi- companion in favour of per
sons described to be fuffering for his cause.
They knew that habituated to uncontroll
ed ("way, he inwardly cherilhed the project
of reltoring all the abuses of die old go
vernment ; but they did not know that a
plan was actually forming to compromise
the whole quedioa with the duke of Brunf.
wick.
London, Aug. 27. At a moment when the
Britifli funds, fell 3 per cent, it was a curi
ous circnmflance that the exchange upon
Paris role more than fix per cent. This
rife happened 011 Friday last, and various*
were the (peculations as to the cause. It
is, however, obvious to the meaiieft obser
ver. The discoveries made by the afl'em
bly of the funis lent to the king by different
banks, have made such a run upon them all
generally, and the tenor of bankruptcy has
riled to such a height, that all the houses
here interested in the fate of their corref
poodent', are anxious to transmit to them
funds to lupport their credit in this exigen
cy ; and in couiequence of this, any price
alinolt would have been given on the lad
poll day for good paper. This is a proof;
ot the iii:fcondu£t of tile king, which no
mail will call equi vocal; for he has contri
ved to squander 150 or lfco millions ofli
vres.
The jrreat scene that has pal Ted in the ca
pital of France is a lefTon worthy of these- .
riotis attention of every monarch in Eu
rope. It is sickening to hear our proltitut- '
ed prints call the French nation barbarous
and inhuman ; becanfe when justly incens
ed they have made examples of two or three
thoufanrl fconndrels, to rescue the liberties
of millions of honed men, while the fame
ideots pretend to respect a family, the vain
wars of whom have, covered the earth
with the biood of innocent individuals from
one end ot Europe to the other ; and after
all the noise made about the royal family of
France, which of all the persons it contains
can urge as a plea for calumniating even
the hady mobs of Paris, that a trigger has
been pulled at them, though so often in the
power of an inraged people. A moments
refleflion on this circtimdance shews.that if
atonement is to be made, it is to the people
of France ; so continually intuited with the
epithet of assassins in our penlioned prints.
It is mortifying that England, who owes
what little liberty (he enjoys to a (imilar
conduct with that perilling in France,
fliould now fee her enfeebled press abused
to the purpose of insulting daily a free
people, druggling to maintain their re
cently recovered liberties.
In the early part of life, Qiiintus Curti
us,or Cefar'sCommentaries are put into the
hands of youth by their tufors, who gene
rally indead of reprobating and expoling in
the itronged terms the wanton massacres
and unprovoked cruelties committed by the
iieroes, as they are dyled, ot these books,
rather point out their conduit as the effect
of a glorious ambition. Let us then banifil
from schools all books of this kind, notex
cepting even the Iliad of the divine Homer,
as conducive to the vitiating of the human
mind : And let us banish from the dage e
very play where royal fufferings, royal fe
rocity, or royalty in any lhape is the fub
jeft, except so treated as to excite our dif
gud and abhorrence : away with your kings
and queens ; cursed be their rage for it has
been cruel; their anger, for it was inhu
man ; let us divide them in Jacob, and scat
ter them in Israel ! The present empress of
Rtifiia, the only modern cut throat that can
vie With the cut-throats of antiquity, was
at lead the final cause of thirty thoufancl
men, women, and children being put to
death at Ifmaeloff, a year or two ago. Af
ter all reliftance had ceased, after all hofli
lities were supposed to be at an end, these
bloody mercenaries began an indifcriuiinate
havoc ; neither beauty protected the wo
men, age the decrepid, nor innocence the
children : for three days successively scarce
ly any thing was heard but the (hrieks of
the wounded and dying ; a»«i part of the
amusement of the Coilacks was tossing chil
dren from one to another at the end of
their pikes—and yet the Czarina of Russia
is a heroine, and honored as one of the great
heroic characters of the age !
The Temple, where the late king of
France and his family now reside, was for
merly a place of refuge from arred for
debtors : the king has to ascend one hun
dred and twenty-iix deps to his suite of a
partments. Such is the spirit of the people
against royalty, that a (evere Philippic has
been publtlhed against a municipal officer,
from so lar deferring the dignity of his sta
tion as to go, drefled in his fcarff, to buy a
balloon for the amusement of the Prince
Royal
-1 he fire of heaven has consumed some
few of the human species, and disease will
continue to walle mankind, in spite of eve
ry cflurt of philosophy, but tyranny is an e
vil of man's creation, which has (lain its
hundreds and thoufauds of millions, and
which has embittered the few days which
God has assigned to mortal man in every
age of the world, and 111 every region of the
globe. It vvas a maxim of that learned fool,
James the firft, that if no bifliop exijled, no king
would be permitted to reign ; and altho' this is
to be underliood with some limitations, it
may notwithdanding be fairly affirmed, that
without the aid of ail imposing prielthood,
a despotic monarch would not be endured.
There is fometliing so absurd in the idea
that millions of people are born for the
pleasure of one man, without any natural
luperiority, or evidence of a divine com
tnillion attending him, that it mutt always
be fodered by the fubjeaion of the human
understanding to the obedience of a myste
rious fuperllition. The tyrannies eftab
lithed in every part of the world are fup
porteii by fuperllition, from the plains of
Indoitau to the wilds of Russia. Every an
cient tyranny received the aid of the fame
enchantment, and the people were induced
to follow their leaders to war, not by the
necelfity of felf defence, but by the magic
(pells of a political prieithood. Pharaoh,
when he bought up the lands of the Egyp
tians, took care to the fields of the
prielts free from imposition. He knew, a?
well as the pedantic James, the life of jvriefts
in the bufinels of king-craft. Louis the;
1 6th also judged their services of great im
portance ; and if he had not been born a
little too late in the age of the world, he
might have reaped as great advantages from
them, as any of his predecellbrs. •
\_Extra3s from Englijh papers to Sip. B.]
The school for political morality is now
opened upon the French fiontier, and every
father anxious for the virtuous education ol
his son, fends him to that great mailer, the
duke of Brunfwick. There he is to be taught
that the foul of man is the property of the
slate, and that the proper use of reason is to
teach him to be a slave : that forplain men to
be free is inconfillent with the rights of kings
and lords—and that to exercile our natural
(acuitiesis a violation of our allegiance; that
to think is unbecoming our (Istion in society,
and that the mo't honorable condition for man
is toJland to the right, to wheel, to march, to load,
to present, and to fire in the facts of his fellow
creaturis at the word of command.
Augnf. 30. —The present disposition of
Holland with refpett to French affairs, teems
tobethis—The Jladtholder and his party wish
to join the concert of kings, which the' Hates
and the republican party are as zealous to op
pose. This contrariety of impulse will pro
duce a neutrality.
A gentleman ycderday g tV e 100 guineas to
receive one guinea a day, until the duke of
Brunfwick, at the head of a hostile army, shall
arrive at Paris. This is no proof, that much
confidence is placed in his operations. The
person who gave the money, congratulated him
(elfon having purchased an annuity of 365
guineas for life.
It has been said, that the duke of Brunfwick
can meet with no serious refillance in his march
to Pans.—A whole people united, is but a
triflingobflacle then to an invading foe I The
truth is, tyrants will find that all iheir boaited
discipline mult be inefficacious against a nation
determined lobe free, and that ta£tics are only
good when opposed to tactics. A mere trial of
flrength and fl;ill, presents no image of the pre
sent war in France. It is art against principle;
I'cience again!! the alfeflions—the arm againlt
the foul—and in fucha contest, victory is not
triumph. They may murder one million, but
the remaining twenty-three millions will con
tinue unsubdued.
An ingenious contrivance has been hit upon
to debauch the invading troops. —An infinite
number of finall tin cases have been prepared, in
which are inclofcd the rights of manand the late
decree offering too livresa year,with the benefits
of a tontine ariling to 500 livres ayearto allfoldi
ers who (hall come over to the fide of freedom.
A short intelligible address, to the following
purport,is also inclosed—" Brave man I who
•'art fortunate in finding this paper; f ranee, the
" landoffreedom, wheie every soldier is a ci
tizen, and all men are equal, invites you to
" partake in the bleilings of a fertile foil, a
u genial climate, and perfect liberty. At the
next municipality you are entitled, on pre
fentmg this paper, to a present of 50 livres;
" to an hundred livres the firft ; and to a gra
dual increale every yearafter, during your
life, till it shall amount to 500 livres annu
ally ; and you have your free choice either
" to bear arms in the cause of freedom, or to
live at peace in the interior of the kingdom.
" Brave and happy man who lhall find this
' paper; all this is fiicured to you by a de
cree of the'national aflembly, by the law,
by the honor of the french people.
1 hefe tin cases, thus loaded, are spread a
mong the standing corn, and fcatteied in every
direction near the advanced polls of the enemy,
lo that they may fall into the hands of the sol
diers. This may be literally called sowing the
feeds of desertion. It is not probable, howe
ver, that deiertion will take place for iome
weeks. The Auflrians and Prufiians will have
lagacity enough to reap a double harvest ; to
plunder as they go, until they get so far into the
heartof the kingdom, as to desert with their
booty, and take the advantage of this decree
of (eduction in fafety.
The wtihdrawing of our ambafTador from
Parts in the present moment was a matter ol
mere etiquette; but te order him to deliver
such a note on his departure, is viewed by eve
ry libera! politician in this country, not mere
ly as an inlidious ast, unworthy of a manly
people, but as an unwise measure, calculated
to involve us dangerously with Fiance—dan
geroully we mean as to our permanent interefls.
And in faff, we were on the very brink of
being involved by this declaration in ano-her
armament; for it was doubtful what would be
the answer of the executive power of France;
and our niiniHers, alarmed for the consequences
of theifown jesuitism, in the present irritable
temper of the Parisians, were on the eve ol
threatening to fend a Iquadron to Brell, when
they received accounts that Fail Gower
depart whenever he pleased, and that a decree
was made to give fafe paffege to every ambassa
dor from foreign courts, who might desire tc
quit the French territory,
However the high church party of Eng
land may inveigh againlt the French revo
lution, and adduce tile late barbarities inEd himfelf to Europs to play an extraordi
nary part on the ltagc of human affairs.
He wiflicd either to be foinethiug great or
nothing. To get his ends anl'vvered, it was
necelfary that the king, by breaking his
word with the peopl ■, should ex.-ite genera!
indignation. It was neceflary to turn Pa
ris upiide down, that the kiirg might be for
ced to quit it a second time, and as the na
tion would not a second time reflore him,
that lie might be deprived of the crown.
At such an event Fayette would have been
ready to declare hiinfelf protector of the
conftitut'.on ; and what fort of a protestor
Would he have been ! He would have come
to the national assembly at the head of an
army, in the plenitude of power, surround
ed with his creatures, and giving law to the
nation 1 The nation, tired out with perpe
tual d'f appointments, and dreading the hor
rors of a civil war, would have declared it
felf indifferent who were its oppressors.
La Fayette would then have received the
di&atorial authority, the final object of all
his withes; and tne main objedt he ever
had in view. It was in the fame way that
Oliver Cromwell managed with a great na
tion, till he elevated himfelf to supreme
power on the wrecks of liberty. He would
have made the aflembly the vile instrument
of his schemes as Cromwell did the parlia
ment of England—Those. who have consi
dered la Fayette as a trivial enemy, know
little of him or his accomplices. The pro
je£ts of la Fayette ought to put all true
friends of liberty upon their guard that one
tyranny does not succeed another in this
country; and that the conflitulicn, which aU
ready, through Fayette's means, has been
moiffened with the blood of our citizens,
may not become the abjeit creature of the
will of ambitious individuals. From the
very beginning of ihe French revolution the
nation has been deluded with a pleasing vi
sion, of which Fayette alone knew how to
lake the advantage.
It would not have been prudent in hiin
to propose openly to the assembly to destroy
their country; but it was amply in his
power to debauch the chiefs of the arn: ,
and even a part of the army itfelf. The
means were in his hands, to prevent intel
ligence arriving, and to fallifv the news
that did arrive. It was in hispower to cir
culate in his camp inflammatory writing
against the national aflembly, again:! the
friends of the people, and against liberty.
The will of the nation he might rcprefent
as the voice of a faction. His public infor
mation he might keep secret. It Was ne
ceflary, then, that the procedures to cru!h
him should have been as prompt as his
threats—lince in gaining time the leader of
a faction has ofcen gained a victory. fitit
the assembly were lenient : an infignifitant
chara£ter, upon limilar provocation, would
have been instantly punished ; but this mau,
who set himfelf above the laws, remained
here eight days with impunity. The ques
tion at last absolutely turned upon this ;
iliould Fayette be permitted to split ;he
nation into factions and parties, or was it
tinder the anfpices of the assembly, to rife
like one man against him? Examine the
letters of M. de la Fayette. He pretended
that the patr otic societies fomented dilcord
in the nation. It was not true : but it was
too true that he was at the bottom of our
domestic troubles, in order to throw the
blame on the patriotic societies. Fayette,
even now, dares not to fay that the assem
bly have ever tranfgrelled the limits of the
conifitution—did he ever advance a single
proof of his assertion on this head ? He da
red to fay that the assembly had violated the
freedom of the king in the choice of his
mini-try: a mere calumny—Fayette fii-ft
broached the idea to the nation of aban
doning the aflembly—lt was time, then; to
finite Fayette, that the nation might be fa
vtd ; the fate of France was involved in
bis destiny, and the success of his plans
would have prepared the tomb of her li
berty—But he is overthrown, the cause of
the people flourifhes, and liberty is again
.triumphant.
PHILADELPHIA.
November 7.
CONGRESS.
Monday, November 5.
Agreeably to adjournment at their lafl
leffion, a quorum of the supreme legislature
of the United States met at the State House
in this city, viz. 37 members of the House
of Reprelentatives, and 18 members of the
Semite. A new member, from Maflachu
fett , Mr. Leonard, appeared, was qualified,
and took his feat. The V;ce-Prefident be
ing absent, the house were informed by
nieffage from tile Senate, that Mr. Langdon
was chosen President of the Senate fro tem
pore. The Kev. B.lhop White, and the
Kev. Afiibel Green were chosen chaplains.
A petition was preli-nted and from
the i;.erchants of Cbarlefton. S. C. com
plaining of the exorbitant fees of the court
or admiralty of the United States, and also
of the extravagant bail demanded in cases
ot trivial actions brought by ieaman, under
the act for regulating the pay of seamen irt
the American service j and praying redress
in both caies.
Several documents were laid before the
house from the executive of the (late of
Oeorgia, relative to the proceedings of the
legislature for filling the vacancy in their
representation in Congress ; by which it ap
peared that John Alilledge, Esq. was e
le£ted.
A joint committee of both houses waited
011 the President of the United States, to
acquaint him that they were ready to pro
ceed to bulinels ; who returned for an
swer, that he would meet both houses to
morrow at 11 o'clock in the senate-cham
ber.
Tuesday, Nov. 6.
Mr. Gordon, from N. York, Mr. Kitte
ra fiom Pennsylvania, Mr. S. Griffin and
J. Page from Virginia took their feats in
the House.
A message was received from the Senate,
informing that they were ready to attend
the Hotife in receiving the communication
from the President ; whereupon, the
speaker, with the members of the House,
proceeded to the Senate chamber, where
the President addressed both houses as
fallows :
Fellow-Citizens of the Senate, and of the
House if Representatives.
IT is Come abatement of the fatisfaftion,
with which I meet you ontheprefent occa
fioii, that, in felicitating you on a continu
ance of the national prosperity, generally,
I am not able to add to it information that
the Indian hoflilities, which have for some
time palt distressed our north-western fron
tier, have terminated.
You will, I am persuaded, learn with no
less concern than 1 communicate it, that
reiterated endeavours, towards effecting a
pacificarion, have hitherto iifued in new and
outrageous proofs of persevering hostility
on the part of the tribes with whom we are
in contest. An earnefl desire to procure
tranquility to the frontier; to flop the fur
ther effufion of blood 5 to arrelt the pro
gress of expense ; to forward the prevalent
vviiii o the nation, for peace, has led to
strenuous efforts, through various channels,
to accomplish these desirable purposes : In
making which efforts, I confultcd less my
own anticipations of the event, or thefcru- ;
pk ;, which some confideratious were cal- !
ciliated to inspire, than the wish to find the
object atia liable ; or if not attainable, to :
ascertain unequivocally that such is the
cafe.
A derail of tiie measures, that have been .
pursued, and of their consequences, which
will be la,d before you, while it will con- i
firm to you the want of success, thus far, '
Will, I ti uft, evince that means as proper
and as efficacious as could have been devi- !
fed, have been employed, The issue of j
some of them, i ideed, is (till depending ;
but a favorable one, though not to be des
paired of, is not promised by any thing that
has yet happened.
In the conrfe of the attempts which have
been made, some valuable citizens have !
fallen victims to their zeal for the public i
service. A fan£tion commonly respected
even among lavages, has been found, in this
iuftance, infufficient to protest from maffa
ci e the emiflaries of peace. It will, 1 pre
sume, be duly considered whether the oc
casion does not call for art exercise of libe
rality toward; the families of ihedeceafed.
It irtijft add to your concern, to be in
formed, that beiides the continuation of
hostile appearances among the tribes north
ot the Olio, lonie threatening lymptoms
have of late been revived among some of
those south of it.
A parr ot the Cher.ikees, known by the
name of Chickamagas, inhabiting five villa
ges 011 the Tennefee river, have long been
ill the praitice of committing depredations
on the neighbouring fettlemeuts.
It was hoped that the treaty of Holftbn,
made with the Cherokee nation in July
1791, would have prevented a repetition of
such depredations : but the event has not
answered this hope. The Chickamagas,
aided by some banditti of another tribe, in
their vicinity, have recently perpetrated
wanton, and unprovoked hostilities upon
the citizens of the United States in that
quarter. The information which has been
received on this subjeCt will be laid before
you. Hitherto, defensive precautions on
ly have been ftriitly enjoined, and obser
ved.
It is not tmderftoad that any breach of
treaty, or aggreflion whatsoever, on the
part of the United States, or their citizens,
is even alledged as a pretext for the spirit
of hostility in this quarter.
I have reason to believe that every prac
ticable exertion has been made (pursuant
to the provision by law for that purpose)
to be prepared for the alternative of a pro
secution of the war, in the event of the
failure of pacific overtures. A large pro
portion of the troops authorized to be rai
led, have been recruited, though the num
ber is still incomplete. And pains have
been taken to dilcipline and put them in
condition for the particular kind of ser
vice to be performed. A delay of opera
tions (belicles being diftaied by the mea
sures which were purftiing towards a pa
cific termination ot the war) has been in
itfelf deemed preferable to immature ef
forts. A ltatement from the proper depart
ment, with regard to the number of troops
raised, and some other points which have
been fuggeftetl, will afford more precise in
formation, as a guide to the legiffititfe crfn
full aiiom : aiu! among other tilings will
enable Congress to judge whether fume ad
ditional fliuiulus to the recruiting service
may not be advifeable.
In looking forward to the future ex
pense of the operations, v. iiich may be
found inevitable, 1 derive confo'ation from
the information, I receive, that the pro
duftofthe revenues for the prcfent year
is likely to supersede the neteflity of addi
tional burthens on the community, for the
service of the eiiluing year. Thi:-, howe
ver, will beb.'tter ascertained i.i the cotirfe
of the leffion ; and it is proper to add,
that the information alluded to proceeds
upon the supposition oi no material exien
lion of the spirit of hoftiliry.
I cannot difmifsthe fubjeef of Indian af
fairs without again recommending to your
consideration the expediency of more ade
quate provilion for giving ellergy to the
laws throughout our interior frontier, and
tor retraining the comniilfion of outrages
upon tfce Indians; without which all
pacific plans mult prove nugaiory. To en
able, by competent rewards, the employ
ment of qualified and trusty pgrfons to re
side among them, as agents, would also
contribute to the preservation of peace and
good neighbourhood. If, in addition to
these expedients, al) eligible plan could be
devised for promoting civilization among
the friendly tribes, and for carrying on
trade with thc-m, upon a scale equal to their
wants, and under regulations calculated
to pi oteft them from impofitioU and extor
tion, its influence in cementing their inter
ells with our's could not but be considera
ble.
The prosperous {fate of our revenue has
Been intimated. This would be fti 11 more
trie cafe, were it ndt for the impediments,
which in some place ; continue to embar
rafs the collection of the duties onfpirif; dis
tilled within the United States. These
impediments have leiTened anil are levell
ing in local extent —and as applied to the
community at large, the contentment with
the law appears to be progressive.
But symptoms of increased opposition
having lately manifefted themselves in cer
tain quarters —I judged a special in:erpoli
tion on my part, proper and advifeable,
and, under this impreiiion, have ifiiied a
proclamation, warning against all unlaw
ful combinations and proceedings, having
for their object or tending to obflrnct" the
operation of the law ia question, and an
nouncing that all lawful ways and means
would be Urictly put in execution for
bringing to justice the infractors thereof,
and securing obedience thereto.
Measures have also been taken for the
profecntion of offenders : and Congress
may be assured, that nothing within conlfi
tutional and legal limits, which may de
pend on r/.e, fha'll be wanting to after: and
maintain the just author ty of the laws.
11l fulfilling this trtift, I shall count intire
ly upon the full co-operation of the other
departments of government, and upon the
zealous support of all good citizens.
I canuot forbear to bring again into the view
of the legislature the lubject of a rcvifion of
| the judiciary fyflem. A representation from
| ihe judges of the lupreme court, which will be
| laid before you, points out some of the incon
j veniencies that are experienced. —In the course
j of the execution of the laws, confederations a
rife out of the flruflure of ihit fyflem, which,
in some cases, fend 10 relax their efficacy.—As
( connected with this fubje<3, provifioils to faci
litate the taking Of bail, upon piocefifes out of
the courts of the United States, and a supple
mentary definition of offences again!! the con
firtuiion and laws of the union, and of tho pu
nifhmeßt for f'uch offences, will, it if presumed
be found worthy of particular attention.
Observations on the value of peace with other
nations arc unueceffary. It would be wife how
ever, by timely provisions, to guard againll
j those atls of our own citizens, which might
tend to disturb it, and to put ourfelvisin a eon
ditiou to give that fatisfa£tion to foreign nations
which we may sometimes have occasion to re
quire from them.—l particularly recommend
to your consideration the means of preventing
those aggreflions by our citizens OH t:,e territo
ry of other nations, and other infraflions of
the law of nations, which, luriiifhing just fub
jeftof complaint, might endanger our peace
with them.—And, in general, the maintenance
of a friendly intercourse with foreign powers
will be prelentcd to your attention by the ex
piration of the law for thai puipofe, which
lakes place, if not renewed, at the dole of the
present session.
In execution of the authority given by the
egiflature, measures have been taken for engag
ing foixe aitifts from abroad to aid in the ifla
blilhmentof our mint ; others have been em
ployed at home. Provision has been made of
the retjuilite buildings, and these arc now put-*
ling into proper condition for the purpo es of
the eftabhfhment.—There has also been a (mall
beginning in the roinage ol lulf-dilmes; the
want of small coins ir> circulation calling the
firfl attention to them.
The regulation of foreign coins, in eorref
pondency with the principles of our national
coinage, as being eflential to their due operation,
and to order in our money-concerns, will, 1
doubt not, be relumed and completed.
It is represented that some prcvitions in the
law, which eflabliflies the poll-office, opsrate,
in experiment, against the tranfmiflion of newl
papen to diliant pans of the country. —Sttould
this, topch c!uc t'hqfiiry, be fcimd to be the
a full eonvitiicn ot Ihe importance offacilitating
the nictitation of political intelligence and in
formation, will, 1 doubt not, lead to the appli
cation of a remedy.
1 he adoption of a Coriftituti n for the state
of Kentucky has beeti notifi.d to me. The
legislature will (hate with me in the fatisfaflion
which aiiles from an event intetefling to the
bappmefsof the part of the nation, to which it
reljies, and conducive tothe general order.
It is proper likewise to inform you, that
since my lafl communication on the fubje£l,and
in luithei execution ot the a£ts federally mak
ing provision for the public debt, and for the re
duction thcieot. three new loans have been ef
tefted, each for three millions of florins one
at Antwerp, at the annual interefl of foul" and
ore half per cent, with an allowance of four
per cent, ill lieu of all charges—and the other
two at AmHcrdain, at the annual inteiell of four
per cent, with an allowance of five and one
half per ccnt. in one cafe, and ot five per cent,
in the other, in lieu of all charge . —"1 he rates
of thele loans, and the circumtlances, under
which they have betn made, are confirmations
ot the high Date of our Credit abroad.
Among th£ objefls to which thefefundi have
been diretted to be applied, the payment of the
d.btsdue to certain foreign officers, according
tothe provision made duiing the last feffiofi, has
been embraced.
Gentlemen cf the Hcvje of Representatives.
i entertain a strong hope that the (late of the
l national finances is now lufficiently matured to
enable you to enter upon a fytlematic aud effec
tual arrangement for the regular redemp
tion and discharge Of the public debt, ac
cording to the right which has been re
served to the government. No meaftirfe
can be more desirable, whether viewed
with an eye to its intrinlic importance, of
to the general sentiment and \\ ilh of the
nation.
Provilioil is likewise requisite for the
reimburfeinent of the loan which has been
made of the bank of the United States,
purlttant to the eleventh section of the ast
by which it is incorporated. In fulfilling
the public stipulations in this particular,
it is expefled a valuable favina will be
made.
Appropriations for the current service
of the ensuing year, and for such extra
ordinaries as may require provision, will
demand, and, I doubt not, will engage
your early attention;
Gentlemen of the Senate, and of tht
Houje oj Retnefentatives.
I content inyfelf with recalling your at
tention, generally, to such objects, not
particularized in my present, as have been
fugget'ted in iny former communications
to yoa.
Various temporary laws will expire du
ring the prefe.it feflion. Among theie,
that which regulates trade and incerccurfe
with the Indian tribes, will merit particu
lar notice.
The results of your common deliberati
ons hitherto, will, I trulr, be productive of
solid and durable advantages to our consti
tuents : such as, by conciliating more and
more their ultimate fuffrage, will tend to
ftreilgthen and confirm the:i attachment to
that conflitution of government, upon
which, under Divine Providence, material
ly depend their Union, their fafety, arid
their happiness.
Stili further to promote and secure tbefe
iheltimable ends, therj is nothing which
«gn have a more powerful tendency, than
the cultivation of harmony, combined with
a due regard to liability, in the public coun
cils.
G°- WASHINGTON.
United States, November the 6th, 1792.
About the last of July a treaty was held
at New Orleans between the Spaniards and
the Creeks, Cherokees, Chiekafaws, and
Choctaws, at which the Spaniards offered
them arms and ammunition to go War a
gainit the United States. » They a!fo made
them large present, of goJ|'s. The Creeks
and Cherokees of the lower towns receiv
ed their talk, It is laid that Gen. M'Gil
livray attended tne treaty. On the 14th
of September about one thoufaiid Creeks
and Cherokees atlembled at the Tennelfee,
and marched against the settlement of Cum'
berland. No information of their having
made an attack Was received at Knox
ville the eleventh of October.
A veflel jutt arrived 3t Baltimore frohv
Gaudalope, informs, that the inhabitants
of that island, and of Martin que had hois
ted the white Hag, and were determined
to support the nation, the law, and the
king, agreeably to the lately eftabliflied
conllitution of France, in opposition tor
what thay call the nfnrpations of the Ja
cobin legislature of that le ngdom.
Henry Lee, Elquire, is re-eiected Gover
nor of the Hate of Virginia, for one year,
to commence from the lit of Decenibef
nest.
L..!t Saturday arrived here the ship
Mary, Capt. Gardner, from Ruilia ; by
this vessel intelligence 11 received that at
the time of leaving Peterfburgh (Sept.
ill) there were rto movements in any part
of the armies cf Russia aga;nit the French
nation, nor was there any profpeft (from
the filiation and appearance of affairs) of
an interference on the part of Russia, in
behalf of Aullvia, and the ether defeats ofFrom ike Bojlon Independent Chronicle. I;
tl
The CRISIS,—No. IV. a
, t<
A feu) enervations on various fuljt fls.
, c
Mr. Adams,
c
IN the course of the preceding numbers, it has 0
been laid down as a fundamental poiition, | t
that the efta'ulifhment of the federal government, c ,
was originally intended for the promotion of our f,
navigation, and th? extension of our commerce.
The cmbarraflments under which theseiimpo- t
tant branches laboured, in consequence us Euro- c
pean reftridVions, firft led c< The people" to adopt j
a federal (yftem, whereby the several dates might f
be direOed in framing their commercial law? up- „
on some uniform principles, for the purpose of ef-
feeing an < nergctic mode of retaliation. Previous (
to the adoption of the present constitution, the j
partial import operated to the injury of thole j
states which adop.ed them. In order therefore, ]
to remedy the difficulties which took place from t
this cause, it was thought recefiary that the fev ]
eralftates fnould be so organized, as that every (
one ihould stand on an equal footing.
This being thc ground work of our federal gov
ernment, — l ' the people" did not luppole that in
providing ways and means to remove the evils
they experienced, that trade would be so immedi
iiteiv fubjeft to all the embarraflments it now fuf
fers. The relief of the American commerce, be
ing the primary objedt of government, it was not
conceived poflible that the general tenor of the
edts pafTea, would have a tendency to encreale the
burdens.—lt was net conje&ured, that heavy du
ties would be indiscriminately laid on all articles,
whether they could, or could not be manufactur
ed among us j or that a revenue would arise from
them, competent to the maintenance of a nu
merous body of officers, with salaries mere extra
vagant, than were granted even under the Britilh
admi^ifhation.
An uniform fyfiem of import-, is readily allowed
to be neceflary— but it never entered into any con
federate man's mind, that the enormous fees, and
salaries of officers, were in any sense conneded
with this principle of uniformity. The pay of
ithefc men ought undoubtedly to be equal to their
services, but sinecures and compensations beyond
their earnings, were never contemplated.
The grand delign of duties was for the support
of our public credit, and maintenance of our ci
vil government j and such economy was expedted in
the appropriation of the revenue, that it was
thought, in a few years, both our foreign and do
mestic debt woyld be honourably discharged. It
was not imagined, that a fyfiem of finance would
be so early generated, calculated to keep the (tates
forever burdened with a heavy debt 5 or that a let
of men would be engendered therefrom, to bask
•under its influence, like infedts in afummer's fun.
It was not supposed that the whole body of mer
chants were to become drudges, to toil and la
bour, for the aggrandifoment and unreasonable
emolument of a multitude of officers rcfiding in
▼ arious departments.
Whether the measures adopted have been at
tended with salutary consequences, we can only
judge from experience. If commerce had been
benefited, tr would before this time, have ap
peared evident. Complaints from the merchant
seldom take place, unless there is some fubrtantial
cause to provoke them : if he found that his bu
finefsvvisin any tolerable degree profitable, we
ihould hear but few murmurs. The body of
merchants have received the applause of the Su
preme executive, for their exertions tofupport the
government, by paying the duties j but there is a
certain point, beyond which, neither policy or
equity will juflify us to proceed. The old pro
verb, never ride a free horse to death, is in this
instance, very applicjMe.—Neither should the re
venue be expended, or used, unless for purposes of
the most a'ofolute r.ccsffity.
It.is not necejj'ary % that money fliould be taken
from the indubious, to pamper the indolent :
That such immense funis should be squandered
away, in carrying on a ruinous and expensive In
dian war : Neither is it necejjary, that the duties
paid by the merehant, fliould be deposited in the
several Branch banlks, for the use and profit of a
few Speculators and menopolizers } or that a col
ledtor's annual income should cr.creajc in propor
tion as the trade is burdened.
it was observed, that if commerce was benefit
ed, it would soon appear evident- But so far from
this being the cafe, we can scarcely meet in a cir
cle of men in but the comf laints become
general. They Wi not arise merely from an ava
ricious disposition, but from the real situation in
which trade is involved.
When a merchant receives his invoice, he is
fubjedt not barely to a duty upon the flerling a
mount, but the goods are valued at an advance of
ten per cent. and on this sum he pays hi a import.
The government by this measure, receives a duty
on an imaginary profit, which the importer sel
dom realizes. —This amount therefore, is a dire ft
tax upon ihe importer, which it is out of his pow
er ever to relieve himfelf from. The advance of
ten per cent, must be unjust, as but few invoices,
upon an average, nett this profit. In short it may
be questioned, whether any invoice, on which a
duty often per cent ad valorem, is paid, has real
ized to the importer a profit of fix ptr cent, after
deducing all charges : if so, it is unreasonable
that he should pay the duties on it, upon the idea,
that he obtains a profit of ten per cent.
So far from our commerce being considered
with that mild deliberation, which the peculiar
state of it lequiied, it seems rather to be treated
with an uncommon degree of Severity. If any
44 additional levenue" is wanted, it is hastily
thrown on this branch, without the appearance of
any Serious consideration, as to the propriety or
reaSonableness of the measure.
Commerce is of so delicate a nature, that all
wife nations treat every matter relative to it, with
the greatest and ftudioully confuit
the most effedtual measures to aid and assist it—
The American trade in particular, while labour
ing under European refirjfiions, calls for the ut
most attention, and should be managed with as
much tenderness and prudence, as a pb)fician
would manage a patient with, whose constitution
is impaired and debilitated* /
Tlic or. commerce ccgTit to be adjusted
with the utnmft nicety.—lf extra duties" arc i
laid, they fugbj. not to t2kc place so Juddenly.,
that the merchant Zhou Id be liable to them upon l
an invoice which it is mpcfiib'e for him to coun- i
termand. Jroch f< extra duties" should be con- j
fide red as ? mutual contradt between the mer
chant and government j the former ought to have <
it so tar iptior.al } as to omit fending for the arti
cles, if he thinks proper. He ought to have an
opportunity to make his calculations, otherwifc
he is em rapped to pay a duty which he did not con
temp late a: the time of firting away his veilcl, or
forwarding his orders.
The lecretary of tht treasury being aware that
the high duties would greatly (heighten the mer
chant, cautiously establishes a national bank, as a
kind of Jucctdaneum, by which the merchant is al
fifted in making pundtual payments. This afiift
ance however is only an artificial relief', a tem
porary palliation, which serves to facilitate the
colledlion of the revenue. But how far this allur
ing credit-, will affedt the trade when payments
become due, and when renewals arc cheeked, is a
matter of Serious consideration. The goods in
many instances being on hand, the debtor mull
finally be obliged to fell them at whatever price he
can obtain. These bank demands will probably
in a few years, give the dire&ors of this pecuniary
institution, an undue advantage over the tradirg
part of the community j by knowing the. ft ate ol
every man's note, any one of them, by the magic
of the l>larik ball, may convert almuft every man's
pioperty to his own ufc at a depreciated value;
not that we can suppose such a circumstance will
take place, by the management of any individual
now within that reputable department 5 but when
the places which now know tbem,Jhall know then:
no more, it is pofiiblc such ar event may happen:
To prevent thepojjibility of which, the Union,
Mairachufetts, and Salem barks fliould have eve
ry support, as they will operate as formidable
checks, to defeat such mealutes.
Another difadvanrage a merchant lies under,
is the pernicious eftrdts of Cufiom Hovfe ejfi<'fri be
ing thcmjelves conccmed in trade. A velie 1 arrives
loaded with rum, sugar, molafTes or wines, and
possibly the guager, weigher, See. are 'he owners :
A man being always partial to his own interest,
it is natural to suppose, that a very favourable
return will be made of such a cargo. Tho' :n
this instance, as in the other, we cannot suppose
any thing of the kind will at present take place 5
yet in time, provided Custom-House officers aie
admitted to become merchants, they may be able
to underjell every other importer at market.
It is worthy of observation, that in the Loan
-1 Office, the clerks are abundantly numerous, to
expedite the negociaticns of Speculators but in
the Custom-House, or.ly one clerk is employed to
forward the bufin«fs of the merchant : Tho* this
' is easily accounted for, as the government pays the
clerks of the one, and the colle&or himfelf, pays
the clerk of the other, out of his own [mall annu
' ity. This (hows however, that a funding y rather
than a commercialfyjfem, has been the objedt of
Congress.
The foregoing observations are offered for the
1 consideration of the public. Whether they are
jujl or not, is left to their decision. The reflec
tions thrown out in that 'vehicle of (larder, the Co- 1
' lumbian Centinel, that the author is led from pri- \
1 vate, rather than pub.ic motives, are too contemp- j
tible, to be ferieufiy noticed. The author feels j
j too independent, to refrain oft'eiing his fentimencs |
on public measures, in consequence of such fug- i
geftions ; knowing that the people of these states, i
z . have too much discernment, not to fee thro' the
motives of those who throw out such paltry infinu- i
ations. The ariftocraticsof France, the place
c men and pensioners of England, are equally afTi
-3 duous to defame the author of " the Rights of ,
r Man. But f*£is are fiubborn things.
As to electioneering motives, the charge i« equal- j
5 ly futile. The author feels in no other manner
*. if interefied" in the choice of federal reprefenta
' tives, than every other free citizen. He courts
no man's patronage ; but as'a republican, he ever
] means to exercise the unalienable right of think
j ing, speaking, writing and publishing his fenti-'
ments jin doing of which, he will always ftudv
decency, and decorum. He sincerely wi flies per
manency to the federal constitution, and an hon
orable and fpcedy discharge of t'he public debt.—
These two great objects, depend on the equity in
adjusting our taxes, and thc economy in appropri
ating our revenue.
A REPUBLICAN.
B OOKS,
e 7
Printed and fold by
MATH EW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
s 1. American Museum, from its commencement
• n January 1787, to June 1792, in eleven volume,
f Price, neatly bcund and lettered, Sevtnteen d'.llarss
. and three fifths.
y This work which is now Conduced on an im- ;
- proved p!an t containing the best piecei publifhedfor !
1 and againli the proceedings of government, will be
- found to contain at leafi as great a variety of polu
f tieal, agricultural, ar.dmijcellaneous efjays, as any
, ever publijbed in America. Perhaps in no one work
j are Jo many valuable documents rejpefting the hifio
a r y of this country, colleded together. His excel
lency the President of the United Statcs y has de
r dared of it, that *' a more ufeful literary plan
e has never been undertaken in America, nor one
, more deserving of public encouragement." The
fubfeription is two dollars and a half per annum.
j Gentlemen in the country who wijh to be Jupplied
x with this work, are requefied to give commijfton to
d friends in the city to Jubfcribe Jor and receive it.
y 7. Smith's letters to married womeu, on nursing
y and the management of children. " JVe recommend
f thrje letters to theperufal of those to whom they a>t
r particularly add*ejj'cd.' Monthly Review, Vol. 38,
Page 101. Pt iie bound five eighths of a dollar.
I Duncan's elements of logic, three fourths of a
h dollar.
t 4. Beauties of Fielding, 50 cents.
5. beauties of Blair, 50 cents.
6. Ladies 1 Pocket Library—containing :—Mj<
• More's Efjays 5 Gregory's Legacy ; Lady Pen
s ningtoris advice j Marchionejs of Lambert's ad
i vice j Swift's letter to a newly married lady j
5 Mrs. Chapcne on command of temper j More's fa
, blesfer the la diet-*--Price 6/6«
7» Smith's Kiftory of New-York. Pricc a do!
lar and a quarter.
7, Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, 1.1.d. profejjor of moralphilosophy and logu
in the Manjchal College, Averdeen—Price tbret
fourths of a dollar• Of this book the Critical Re
viewers (-vol. 69. p. 61%) Jay :" We have Jeer,
nothing on these fubjetls more plain, more perfptcu
us, or more ginera ly ufeful
9. Beauties of Poetry, Price four ffths of a
dollar.
10. Blair's Sermons,-- Pricetwo dollars.
11. Neckar's Treatije on the importance of reli
gious opinions. Price four ffths of a dollar.
12 Examination of the objervations of Lord Shef
field on American Commerce. Price, on very fine
paper, five eighths r.f a dollar.
13. The Confiitutior.s of the fever al United States,
with the federal Confutation, &c. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14 M'Fingal, Price three eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jert Book, three fifths of
dollar.
16. Garden of tke Sou!, half a dollar.
17* The Douay Translation of the vulgate hi
hie, in quarto. Price, t cgantly bound and lettered,
scfz —-plain f Jix dollars.
Said Carey has for sale, a large assortment oj
booksy European as well as American editions,
which he will difpof' of on the moji reafonabie terms,
Country gentlemen, who favor him with commands,
may depend upon being Jupplicd in the mofi fatisfac
tory manner. A liberal allowance to such as pur
chase quantities for public libraries, or to fell again.
May j7. 6m.xa.w.
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. Oswald,
(Price Eltven Pcr.ce)
FIVE LETTERS,
addrefled to the
Yeomanry of the United States:
CONTAINING /ome Observations on tht
Scheme of IVm. Duer Esq. and Mr Secreta
ry Hamilton, to eftabliifli National Manufactures ,
by a FARMER. This pamphlet, so highly in
teresting at this period, may be had at the follow,
ing places : ac Mr. Oswald's Printing-Office, No
156, Market-street j at No. 209, Market-ftreetj
at Mr. Dobfon's, 41, South Second-street; at
Mr. Cruk/hanks, 91, Maiket-ftreet j at Mr,
Aitken's, 22, Marlcet-ftreet j and at Mr. Young't
S. W. corner of Chefnut and Second-streets.
21.
Terres a Vendre
Dans un pa't's bien p*uple % —
S A VOIR, foixante cinq mille, crois cens, foix
ante et quatorze Acres, en une feole piece,
dans le canton le mieux peuple de la Caroline Me
ridionale, le Diftiidt de Ninety-Six. C*s terres
font fituees dans une contrce agreable, et lalubre,
ou les fievres font inconnuesj a environ vingt lieues
de Colombie, la Capitate, et contigues ala ville
de Cambridge, ou il y a College, et Cour fuperi
eure. A environ douze lieues, ii y a bonne navi
gation ; et il eft tres probable, que dans quelque
terns on rendra navigable le Grand Saiude, riviere
qui arrofe les terres memes. Elles font agreable
ment diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons charroan;
propres a ia culture du tabac, du coton, du majs
et du petit grain jet dont une proportion consider
able fe peat aifement convertir en prairies fertiles
il n'eft peut-etre gucres poflible de rencontrer une
pareille piece de terre a vendre dans aucun autre
desEtats Unis ; et pour les conditions de I'achat
on les rendra tres commodes.
S'informer a J'imprimerie de la Gazette Na
tionale. Sept. 5.
.
LANDS for SALE,
TN a well fettled Country. SIXTY-FIVE
1. THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY-FOUR ACRES OF in one
bod), in the most populous part of the {late of
South-Carolina, in tjie diftrift ps Ninety-fii-.-It
, is situated in a fine healthy climaf,t'ree from fever
& ague,about futy miles from Columbia, the feat
of government. The land is contiguous to the
town of Cambridge, where are a seminary for the
inftru&ion of youth, and a superior law courr. It
is at prelent within about thirry-five miles of good
navigation, with a probability of having the river,
called the Great Saluda, that flows along one fide
of the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
fully diveifified into l'wells and vales, and is per
fectly well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and small grain; a great
proportion of it may be made meadow ground.
There is not, perhaps, such a body ofland, focir
cumftanced, for sale in any otherof the U; States.
The terms of payment will be made convenient to
the purchaser or purchafeis. Apply to the Printer.
August 29, jawtf
FOR SALE,
A good MILL SEAT,
And an excellent stand for a country (lore,
Situate on Millfione-Creek, about seven miles fro m
Hide's Town or Cranberry, cn the %reat road
leading from Hide's Town to Monmouth
court-house, in New-JerJey.
THERE are one hundred and sixty-seven acres
and an half of good land in the above men
tioned tract j a new mill thereon 28 by 40 feet,
just built, an excellent stream of water 5 the
mill enjoys a head of water between 6 and 7
feet j has 2 pair of stones, and water fufheient
to drive 4 pair ; about 25 acres of excellent mea
'dow, and about 20 acres more to be made with
great convenience j two good frame dwelling
houles thereon, built about 4 years since, with
kitchens to both j a barn and stables ; excellent
water close to the door, and including about 25
acres of excellent wood land. For terms applj
0 J c f-pb 'J*urnee on the premises, or at M'/Ccar
and Van Embargh's store on their wharf immedi
ately next below .Arch-ftieet, to
ROBERT M'KEAN .
Wno has for Sale,
Five Grants of Land ir. Franklin county, in
the Jlate of Georgia, of 1000 acres each ;
Situate on 13ioail River, an.l talcen up 2Stb
June lalt. One grant in the fame county and
(late, of ofic (houfcnd acres, dated 2s: L May,
179°* One of two hundred and cighty-feven a
cres and an half, in the fame county and state, da
ted 23d April, ljSg, and on Trail Creek j and
one grant of two hundred and eighty-(even acres
and an half, in the lame county and fiat?, on the
Occonee River.
Phi lad. Oa. 31. 4 t f. w.
TAKE NOTICE.
\ X , T HERF,ASa mulatto man named LUKE,.
VV the property of the fubfcnber living in
Accomack county, Virginia, ran away from
him on the firlt day of September last, and was
taken up and committed to the gaol of NewcaC
tie county, in the State of Delaware, on t}ie 1 <|ih
dav of September, where he reniai«.'d until the
4'h of thisinfiant, Oflober, when a Mr. Jones,
who said he lived in Frederick Town, in the
county of Cecil, in Maryland, appeared and pro
duced a Benjamin lergulon, who made oath
that he fufpetled the laid slave to be a freeman,
named John Wright, who had failed with the
said Fergufon 111 a schooner belongtngto the said
Jones, and had committed a burglary on board
of her in July laH, in confrquence of which the
said slave was delivered by. order of the hon.
David Finney, a fuprenie judge of the said state
of Delaware, to the said J ones, to take his trial
for the said supposed offence. As lam fully
convinced from the description of the said
fhve, given to me by the gaoler, that he is my
property, and that the said Fergulonhas mistaken
him for Wright, I do hereby direfl the said Mr.
Jones, and Fergufon, to return the laid slave to
the place from whence they took him, and to
inform me thereof, othciwife 1 shall proceed
according to law.
JOHN CROPPER, Jim.
08. 16th. i"(js. 2a.w. jw
New-Jersey Confiscated. Lands.
WHEREAS the firft purchaser did not
comply with the conditions of fdle ;
this is to .give notice t/iat the following tra£ ot
land, containing fifty acres and thirty nine hun
dredths, ftrift rneafure iituafed in Hardifton town*
fliip, near the road that leads from Elijah Ofl
lards, deceased, to Paulinfkill, late the property
of Oliver De Lancey, will be fold at public vendue.
The sale to begin on Wednesday the 28th day
of November next, at 2 o'clock in the afternoon
*t Sufiex courthoofe j and besides cafn, the fof
iowing state obligations will be received in pay
ment, to wit,—•QiScers and soldiers notes given
for the depreciation of their pay— notes given to
the militia of this state for the -arrearage? of their
pay—certificates liquidated by Silas Condift—and
notes given by the Treasurer of this state to per
sons who had demands against the confiscated
eftaie* of New-Jersey,
JOSEPH GASTON,
Agent for Suflex county.
Ofh 24, 1792. 4W.law.
NOTICE.
THIS is tofoiwarn all matters of vefTels and
others, at their peril, not to take a certain
mulatto Boy, named Lewis Eoget, formerly of
Cayenne, out of this city, he being lawfully bound
and apprenticed to me, until! x6th Nov. 1793;
as J have reason to lupC-~} he is endeavouring tn
leave this city. JAMES ROBERTSON'
Ncw-Yoik, Oflober 9. tf
Manufactured and for Sale,
At No. 11, North Sixth -firat,
Fashionable Round Top and Flat
BUTTONS,
Warranted superior to any imported of
equal price.
Cbuntry Store-keepers supplied either in
fnaall or large quantities, By
S. PO S T & Co.
N.B. Conkfliel Buttons, Buckles, See.
Oct. 17- eawtf
FIVE DOLLARS REWARD.
RUNAWAY from the fubferiber in Phila
delphia the 1 sth of September a negro man*
named CUFF. He is about 23 years of age,
feet 6 inches h:gb, has a remarkable walk,
ic had on,a rej & jellow ftiii edbutton jacket. Ruf
fia/heeting (hirt and trii vfers of the fame ftuft*
pair of ihoes jnd an old roynd hat Whoever will
take up the said negro—and bring him to Mr.
Andrew Stieely, Market (i eet. or secure him so
that I get him, (hall have h: above rewatd and
all reasonable expences.
HERMAN BROOCK.
31. ia%v.
*,* Three har.dfomc Editions of the Laws
of the United v txtcs for sale at this office
(No. 209 Market street) in folio and offa
vo, either full or half bound—N.B. The
Laws of the lafl SrJJton, in odavg Qtfly, may
le had fej arate, pric; three eighths of a dollar,
PRINTED BY
C HIL ps ANP SwA IN E,
AT TBS IR OFFICE N0.209, HIGH-STREIT,
JiSAH FIFTH-STREET,
Philadelphia*