Vol. I.
For the National Gazette.
ObJervatiOns on a Ch-iife in " the late Ad. for
the fak of vacant lands within the Com
monwealth of Penn/ylvaniti."
The CLAUSE,
oec. 4. " r ]P HERE shall be granted to
I him [the applicant] a
f arrant for any quantity of land within
le said limits, not exceeding 400 acres."
Is it the meaning that each warrant
shall contain but 400 acres ; or that each
applicant shall take but 400 acres ; that is,
one warrant and no more ?
The officers of the land-office fay, that
by the advice they have taken, they are
authorized to grant only 400 acres to any
one person. I fay, the words are rcilric
tive of the quantity of land in each war
rant, and not of the quantity grantable to
anyone person by more than one war
rant.
There is good reason to redrift the
quantity of each warrant, not only as fe
curing reasonable fees to the office to an
swer die expences of the commonwealth in
supporting offices for these sales ; but al
so as ascertaining reasonable bounds Tor a
plantation, within which by ihe terms of
the a<ft a fettlemcnt mud be made in a cer
tain time, under forfeiture of title Lut
no good reason can be given to redriifi the
purchasers to4oo acres each.
The fa£t is, the commonwealth could
have had in view but three obje&s, the
disposal of the lands, the improvement of
the country, and the accommodation of
the poorer emigrants.
The land is belt disposed, by letting all
men purchase what they chufe. Ihe im
provement is bed promoted by letting all
men improve and fettle as many tra£ts as
they think proper. The poorer emigrant
is bed served by giving land to those who
are bed able to afuft him to improve nnd
fettle. Where reason, and public intered,
and convenience favour the conftruftion
of a law, in cases dubious, let that pre
vail.
Had it been the intention of the legis
lature to preclude an appropriation of more
than 400 acres by any one person, fin ely
the prohibition would have been more dif
tinft and certain. By the adt of April,
1784, for the disposal of lands within the
purchase of 1 768, it is provided that ' the
quantity of land granted to one per
son shall not excced 400 acres." Here
the words are clear, yet it is notoiious,
and was well known to every officer of
crovernment and to the members of the
legislature who had any thing to do with
land in tin's purchase, that the clause was
evaded, by the fame person taking out sev
eral warrants for his own use in real or fic
titious names ; and the evasion in consci
ence was judifiable, because the law in this
particular was unjust, many perfor.s having
by themselves and others made improve
incuts or made purchases of improve
ments which they would wish to appropri
ate and secure by warrants.
But the legislature knowing these eva
lions why not, at lead in the unimproved
land, make use of the words as flrong as
in the former cafe , and express themselves
(in so clear a manner that the board of
office need not doubt, and consult the opi
nion of the governor's secretary, or attor
ney general on the subject ?
If it is the meaning of the law that no
individual shall appropriate more than
one warrant, an evasion by ulhu a fictitious
name, or the real name of a person for the
use of onewho has already had his quanti
ty, mud not only, if the fact can be eda
blifhed, avoid the warrant, but, as a fraud
upon the public, be a misdemeanor and
punishable with fine and imprisonment.
This is a high consequence to found on
inch inexplicit words as, according to the
whom 1 differ, they mud be considered.
It is not from any abllraft motive of
canvafling a law point that 1 make these
By P. FR E N EA U : Publijlied Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
SATURDAY, July 28, 1792.
observation"!, but I feel what 1 think a
grievance from the opinion given. Having
several unfatisfied warrants on which by
this ast I am entitled to have new war
rants, I am told at the land-office that but
one can be granted, which is in effcft
that but one warrant can be (atisfied.
This T take to be by no means within the
intention of the law.
An Applicant to the Land OJJice.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS:
Extracts from French papers, printed at Pa
ris. •
Rome, April 18th "Some days ago, his
liolinefs the Pope summoned a convoca
tion of the French (emigrant) ecclefiaflics
rtliding in this city, particularly those of
the church of St. Louis. At this con
vocation the Abbe Goulard addressed his
holiness, in the name of his brethren, as
follows : — "Your liolinefs fees at his feet
those of the French clergy, who in theii
various (lations have openly confefied theii
belief in Jesus Christ. Neither p-omifes
nor threats have been able to .cflrange
Uofrom the chair of St. Peter or from your
august person. God, in his wisdom and
goodnels,has reserved to 113 a Pontiff, who
in the mod stormy times, has eter set an
example of that serenity and strength oi
mind, which virtue alone can give—a
pontiff, whose example ought to enlight
en and encourage our steps, and who ft
tender feelings will collect his difperfee
flock when the tempell is over. We
(hall have reason a thcufand times tc
bless this transient tempcfl which hus dri
ven u3 from the bosom of our country tc
find a harbour in your paternal city , if
we, and others of your faithful brethren
can only forget those who have unfor
tunately gone aflray. Your reiterated fa
vours are so much the inore Gear to us as
they are the precious pledge of our com
munion with your holiness, and a fenfi
ble proof of the putity of our faith, ant!
as the approbation with which you re
jnrd our conduct.—May heaven (whicli
now teflifies to the finccl'ity of our vene
ation for your character, to our grati
tide, and the eternal attachment we liavt
"worn to vour hoiinefs) reftorc to yon ar,
lundred fold the consolations you have
Domed into our bosoms—may the con
/eifion of our deluded brethren yield ar
;cftacy of joy equal to the afflictions you
lave fuffered from their taking the wrong
path ; and may God take from our days
11 order to prolong a life so ufeful as
yours to the church in general, and par
:icular!y the Gallican—Holy father, give
js the full measure of your bieflings, and
Tratit us yourn/o/MWbenediftion, which
ive earneltlv pray for, &c."
'The reception given by his ho'inefs the
Pope to the difaffefted French clergy, the
favour and succour he has shown iliem,
is scarcely more than moderately indem
nifying them for the critical situation into
which they have plunged themselves.—
Phcie is scarcely any body here, how
ever, who is not convinced, that the reli
gious affairs of France would have been
ong before this time perfectly conipromi
fed, if the Pope, instead of keeping an ob
dinate silence, had deigned to ast the me
diator and propose terms of accommodati
an. But his perfidious advisers have per
suaded him that the opposition of the
ivhole body of the clergy would be the
lure means of effecting a counter revoluti
31), and the only means of prefei ving the
pierogatives of the court of Rome. In
ronfequence of this system the Pope has
left the French clergy to chufe the dis
agreeable alternative of perfc-cution or
Ichifm. In other refpefts, his fyflern is
neither conformable to found policy or
the principles of religion—hi (lory i.-.form.i
lis that whenever a government compels
the people to embrace what are called or
thod x p inciples, or to renounce the rights
t>f freemen, they do not heiita t e to secede
to the religion of nature, which informs
them that mankind did not come into thi.
world to be flives—Perfecutions against
:he French ire increasing here every day.
The (late S;:oretary itTned an edidl some
.veeks ago to all inn-holders, and keepers
if furnifhed lodgings, to deliver ir, with
neighs d :y3, the nqmes of all Frenchmen
efiding in Rome. The government is
low resolved to banish them (the revoluii
jnifts) from the country ; and it will not
t>e fate for them to be found here after the
irfl. of May.—The governors of the fron
ier-towns of the ecclefiailical territories
have also received orders not to fufier any
Frenchman to pass without a positive writ
ten permit from the court. In confe
rence of this order, three carriages, full
t>f French, have been obliged to return to
Viterbo. Such treatment, as much con
trary to the rights of nations as to chrifti
charity, is not likely to conciliate the
-ninds of the French nation to the court
jf Rome.—As to other matters, we are
aught to have no doubt of the success of
i counter revolution. Great rejoicings
took place when news c.ime that the Ja
ttobin clubs had the ascendancy at Paris,
hat there were fattions and divilions in
he aO'emblv, and troubles in the provinc
es . We are also convinced, that if France
.vere but tolerably united in sentiment,
;he combined powers would never dare to
ittack her ; but by being in a flute of a
larchy, that fbe will destroy herfelf and
become the easy prey of foreigners, who
ivill find i' their interest to re-establish the
;lergy in all their rights* pofTcflions, privi
!eges, and prerogatives, If this view of
France be jufl, their hopes will piobably
be gratified. It is thought to be just in
Rome, as well us in many other places oi
Europe, because the ilate of the country
s onlyjudged of by the ariflocratical newf
pf.pert., with which we are supplied to pro
ufion. As we are fute they circulate
reely in France, they are thought worthy
jf credit ; and it is supposed that the Na
ional Afi'embly have not the power to pu
ii(h those people who openly preach up re
folt from, and contempt of all legal autho
■ity. We cannot conceive why the friends
jf liberty give their enemies so many op
sortunities to injure their cause. They
lepend too much on impartial jutlice, no!
;onlidering that in a revolution, which hat
o struggle with so many prejudices, and
vith such a variety of jarring interells, it
s dangerous to reckon too much upon the
general principles of liberty "
/Ipril 20. " After the return o!
he Abbe Maury from the Diet at Frank
ort, he is prom:fed a Cardinal's hat. He
us on a sudden become a prodigious fa
vourite with the court, from what cauft
t is uifficult to conjecture, ilnlefs the pu
erile vanity of the holy father lias Sliver
' '
.vay to the Abbe's servile adulation. A
PalquiMade has just appeared on this sub
eft, a translation of which I now fend to
yfou-r-" Rome is in mourning, O Pius the
[ixth, now that you are loading with fa
vours a man, whom religion, learning,
jnd his country equally disavow—deign
then to listen to Pafquin, and acknowledge
your ertor. .As the organ of public opi>
nion, I am more infallible than yourfelf-—
Born of an obfeure family, Maury had the
baseness to blush at his origin—educated
from his youth upwards in the arts of in
trigue and liypocrify, he grew ambitious
i>f the honours of the academy and the
wealth of the church. According as ei
ther was prosperous he courted the athei-
Iticsl A lembcrt or the Jesuitical Beaumont.
He preached up atheism and calumniated
philosophy. Convinced of the weakneft
of his abilities, he removed his rivals from
the sacred tribunal by the mod infamous
r.ccalations—ln the heat of brutality lis
has endeavoured to seize by force the fa
vours of unfufpe&ing beauty and inno.
cence, and has been known to aflumc the
Numb. 78.
character of an a/Tallin to be received as 3
lover.—Decorated with literary titles,
obtained by the bafeil apoftacy, enriched
by the wealth of a church which he had
treated with the blacked ingratitude, still
his ambition was unfatisfied : always imi.
tating the serpent which to raise itfelf,
mull creep, be became the defender and
patror. of slavery, and. hired out his pert
to a despotic minuter—this tiie fupportetf
of tyranny was invited by the difaffecled
clergy of France to intrude himfelf among
the aprefentatives of a people who are de
termined to be free, &c.—Such is the por
trait of the Abbe Maury.—O Pius, we
pardon you, your effeminate luxury,
your hypocritical pilgrimages, your inso
lent profufion and your antichriftian poli
cy—but who can. without indignation,
fee a traitorous Judas elevated to apoftolL*
cal d'grfity, and the Roman purple dif-f
graced by a pope who is only deferring of
the purple of the galley slaves."
Turin, April 25. " Notwit'uftanding
the pacific aiTuranccs given by this court,
in refpeft of the affairs of France, there is
every reason to mistrust its obfeure po
licy. A whole year has now been fpc;:t
in completing the troops of the line, and
besides these the provincial regiments ara
arming. 1 hefe regiments form i:i tlia
whole an army of 15 or 16,000 men, ami
are so organized that the whole of them
may be coll.cdled in a few days. The gar
rison cf Nice is confiilerably augmented;
Considering the exhausted state of our trea
sury, however, there is reason to think that
all these preparations may be solely meant
for internal defence."
St Peterjburg. April 18. '■ The grand
duke of RufTia seems to be progreflinjr ex
actly in the ftepsof his unfortunate father,
and uniefs the grand duchess fiiould poflefs
a heart replete with all the benign virtues,
he will one day experience the fate £>f Pe
ter the 3d. He himfelf expects it, anti
cipates it, and is therefore deeply cha
grined. He now keeps, in quality of mis
tress, madamo felle Nelidoff, one of the
maids of honour to the grand dutchefe, one
of the uglielt and most peevish creatures in
the world. Such qualifications are not
the most proper to foften the temper of a
prince, who is every day becoming more
and more gloomy, ferocious, and forbid
ding. He has no longer confidence in
anybody: the courtiers hate him; the
military, that are immediately under his
command, are difgulted with his Ariel at
tention to trifles and unrelenting severity ;
the guards despise him ; in one word, the
day that he mounts the throne, encl ess re
volutions will be the consequence, and will
no doubt put a period to the brilliant ca
reer, that has distinguished the reign of
Catharine. Such a prolpeft adds to the
chagrin of the grand duke. He is vexed
at his own infignificance ; lie is continual
ly quarreling with t'neemprefs, his mother,
and even goes so far as to threaten her.
His ill tifage of his consort, the grand
dutcheff, has occasioned a remondrance 0/1
her part to the empress. Touched at her
statement of ma'-teis, the empress cr.ufcd
the grand duke to come into the citv
trom his country residence. She then
held a convcrfation uith him, befitting a
mother and a sovereign ; but the duke re
plied to her neither like a son nor a fuh
je£t. He used arrogant language, in the
ilile of a man who is fully convinced of his
own importance, and badly supports his
own infignificance When he returned
to his chamber, all who came near hin»
were sure to feel the e fFe£ls of his chagrin.
He complained of being furrotinded with
spies and traitors ; and mentioned more
than once that people were around him
who were plotting to depose him as his fa
ther had been before him, but that, previ
ous to any such event taking pla-e hfi
would fend at lead a dozen pet i'ons to the
other world, whom he knew to be his ene
mies. He sent orders to madam Bcnken
dorff (the dutchefs's companion; to packup ai)d depart from R.uflia immediately,
and to mortify the dutchefs the more, he
sent after her two French gentlemen,
one who had acted as herle£furer,the other
her drawing-master. He fufpeifed that
they both entertained French revolution
pr nciples, and had represented the Nati
onal Assembly affairs in a more favourable
light to the duchess than he wished (hould
be done.—His children, however, enter
tain very different sentiments, and inter
est themselves much in the success of the
patriotic cause. Those who have the
care of their education are enlightened
chara&ers, and make it a point that no
thing (hall be concealed from the young
princes. It is highly probable therefore
that the riling family will one day be a
blessing to Rufiia; but this is at a distance,
and even this will be dearly bought, if the
grand duke i 3 to govern during the inte
rim, who both hates the French nation,
and is ur.iverfally hated. —As I mentioned
before, there is no doubt but we are on the
verge of a revolution of great characters,
which will involve many others. The
grand duke is dreaded by theemprefs ; and
he, in his turn, is suspicious of her : and
the death of prince Potemkin has not ad
ded to the confidence he before reposed in
his mother. It is generally thought that
if his suspicious and diftruftful temper had
not banifned all those from about his per
son who were entitled to serve him, he
would have been already at the helm of
empire ; but the natural course of events,
in all probability may loon give him the
reins, without the commiflion of a crime to
obtain them. The health of the empress
is daily on the decline ; her whole frame is
bent forward, which much alarms the
courtiers, who dread nothing so much as
revolutions.
Marseilles, April 19. The true patriots
in Marseilles are a great majority of its in
habitants ; but they are timid, and the
primary assemblies have the assurance to
intimidate their antagonists who are not
friends of anarchy. Whoever is not are
publican and anti-ro'yalift is, with them,
an aristocrat ; and this word, like the head
of Medusa, petrifies all minds.
NEWBURYPORT, July 18.
Several newspapers of the pad and pre
sent week have prematurely mentioned Mr.
Perkins of this town being sent for to Phi
ladelphia, for the purpose superintending
the coinage there. Mr. Perkins' abilities
111 thai line are fully adequate to such an
appointment, as the specimens he has exhi
bited in coining amply telfify. lotteadof
the former method of performing the bu
siness, he has invented a new machine,
which cuts the metal into such circular
pieces as are wanted, and givei the 1111-
preflion at the fame time—its motion is ac
celerated by a balance-wheel, and more
than one third of the time and labor there
by saved. He has also conilruited another
machine, of his own invention, for milling
or lettering the edge, by which a boy can
mill iixty each minute. Were itfound ne
ceflary, he would apply fleam to perform
the mof't laborious part of the bufmefs. But
what is of more importance, and will be
found to be of more utility than all the fore
going, is, a check, which he ha< invented,
for discovering counterfeits. This is so
contrived, as that one eighth of a minute
is fufficient to determine, without thepoj/i
----htily of a liiiftake, whether a piece of mo
ney is genuine, or not; and any town or
merchant can be fupplied,atafma!lexpenfe,
with said check, and then reit allured that
an imposition will be absolutely iinp'ollible.
ALBANY, July 19.
Centlemen who reside 0:1 the military
laud.-, iu the county of Herkemer, in
form us, that that trait of country con
tains a very great proportion of rich land,
well watered,and timbered—That there is
already a coniiderable number of fcttlers
there, and that it bids fair to be peopled
as rapidly as any part of America—That 16
bulhels of fait are daily manufactured at
Major Danforrh's works, at the salt-springs
—and that Mr. Isaac Van \ leek, formerly
of Kinderhook, is erecting ether works at
the fame place, for carrying on the like
manufactory—That, whenever fufficient
works shall be erected at tliefe springs, a
thousand bulhels of fait can be made every
day—That it now fells there at ss. per
bushel—That its weight is about 561b. to
the bushel ; and equal in quality (by the
pound) to that of Turk's-Ifland—That the
lalmon filheryin that country, mult become
an objeit of great importance, as that line
lifli (the lalmon) abounds in their lakes and
rivers, in the spring and fall : that it is not
uncommon for a party to spear 20 or 30 in
an evening, from 14 to 3olb. each ; that if
. e 1 ivers were cleared and seines made use
of, some thousand barrels might be caught
;.l a fe.ifon ; th..: they are equal to the ial
of CoiTLc.ticut river—That a boat
loaded with fait, going to Niagara, where
it fells at 245. per bushel, was lately leiied
by the Britilh at Ofwego.
On Monday lalt, the sale of fifty acres ol
each of the military rights (on which the
expence of survey had not been paid con
formably to law) commenced at the city
tavern in this city. The lands fell ir
general at from is. to 3s. per acre; bin
lome have fold as high as from Bs. to 12s.
It is expeited the sales will not be com
pleted this week.
WILLIAMSBURG, July 5.
Yesterday being the anniversary of Ame
rican independence, was celebrated at the
University in this city, in a manner highlj
grateful to all who take an interest in the
liberties of mankind, or who are fl iends tc
literature.
Mr. Mercer, and Mr. F.dwin Burwell,
delivered, each, an Oration on the bles
sings flowing from the revolution, and ir
commemoration of tliofe heroes whose
blood has sealed this grpat event, and or
the superiority of republican government.
The nature of the fubjeft, and the great
ness of the occasion, excited afire in the
style, and produced a degree of animation
in the manner of delivering these perform
ances truly becoming—whilst the sound
ness of the doctrines, and the elegance oi
theirdiftion, fatisfa&orily evinced the atten
tion and fnccefs of the Profefl'ors, in incul
cating a knowledge of government and po
lite learning
Mr. Thompson, a fellow-ftudent, in j
discourse soundly logical and highly in
genious, founded 011 a knowledge of the
history of nations, pointed out the danger:
which threaten our freedom from the prof
pect of increasing luxury, with fomeadvice
Lhat by a purity of morals we may preserve
1 purity of government.
Nothing surely can tend more to preserve
the spirit and ardor for liberty, than thi:
mode of celebrating the day,at the fame time
that it gives to the public an opportunity of
discerning the state of our seminaries, ai
least as to the cultivation of politics and
Belle Lettres, which, in our country, are
branches of such high utility. It also pro
motes an ufeful emulation. Principles,
too, imbibed whilst the heart is warmed b>
youth, are scarcely to be removed by time.
Thus, if we would continue free, let our
Univeriities be the nurseries of our liber
ties, and, as our government depends 011
□pinion, they will never be in danger
PHILADELPHIA.
July 28, 1792.
Wednesday last arrived here the brig
Betsey, Captain Henry White, from Ply
mouth, in E igland, which port he left on
:he 7th of June. Though this brig I,by seve
ral days, the latest veflel from Europe,
Capt. White brings no very interesting in
:elligence,—At Plymouth he was not able
to learn anything of French affairs—The
British, he fays, were disarming their ships,
and discharging their seamen. He spoke
the (hip Pigou from this port to London or
the if! July, in Int. 50, all well.
We are informed that the spirit of per
sonal contention refpe&ing the late eleftior
in New-York, is fact subsiding away —ami
that those whose feelings have been the
most alive on the occasion, are now deter
mined to wait the decision of the legiflu
ture.
In the Columbian Centinel of the 14th
instant. the public are requested to suspend
their opinion respecting the conduct of Mr.
Skinner and Capt. Hickman, owner and
mater of the American (chooner "Dolphin ;
who was charged with enticing and carry
ing away a number of Negroes from Mar
tinico—as from infpedion of papers in the
hands of persons in Bo (lon, concerned in
that vessel, it is supposed some great misun
derstanding or misrepresentation has taken
alace in that business.
Late information from Spain, by private
Setters, mention that " the Count d'Aran
:la has given permillion to the Jesuits to re
:nrn to that country, as indivitinals, with
out meaning to countenance them as a re
ligious society. They each have recelvec
during their exile, 'tis said, one fourth of;
dollar per day, from the king ; that wil
be for the future, in a great measure ex
pended in the kingdom. As Scientific' anc
literary men they mult be an acquisition tc
Spain."
On the 4th instant, at 1 o'clock in the
morning, the weather being fine, a French
brig called the Grand Hannibal, 350 ton:
burthen, with a rich cargo, from St. Do
mingo bound to Marseilles, struck on :
reef of rocks lying a coniiderable distance
from the south.west end of the Bermud;
islands. After striking the immediately
backed off, and then went down in tleef
water, the rocks here rising perpendi
cularly out of the ocean. The captain,twe
ladies, ai'd feyeral children, who were pas
sengers, perilhed—the reft, about twentj
in number, saved themselves iji the boat,
and readied the mainland, with only their
lea cloaths on their back;. Every captain
that navigates this part of the Atlantic,
should endeavour to obtain a proper idea of
the extent and danger of the rocks with
which this cluster of islands is surrounded,
and when in the latitude of 32 degrees, 1 j
minutes, or 15 miles each fide of that lati
tude, and failing east or weft towards the
the longitude of 64, fliould be particularly
cautious of carrying fail in the night. These
unfortunate people supposed theinfelves 80
leagues to the weft ward of Bermuda.
About the ift June, by some accident,
the woods in the neighbourhood of Shel
burne took fire, and were still raging thro'
the eastern part of the province on the 6th
of July, when these accounts came away.
This conflagration is said to have burnt up
houses, barns, fences, crops. &c. to a great
amount. Added to this misfortune, the
season has proved so dry, that there was no
profpett. of any crops except turnips. "Such
a season of dry weather (fays a letter from
Shelburne) has not been known here for a
century : the very swamps are burnt up :
the conflagration has not yet reached the
town, but is still hovering about it."
Bythelateft advices from French Hifpa
niola. weare informed thatthegovernorge
leral Blanchelande has at length enforced
:he decree of the National Aflembly, grant
ng certain privileges to the Mulatroes,
ivliich has ever been opposed by a party ir
he island, and consequently almost wrought
ts total ruin. It is said that peace may
low speedily be expected to be restored.
ind that the negroes will return to then
luty
ExtraSl of a letter from Havre, dated May 18.
The declaration of war against the king
of Hungary, it appears, was done with ?
view to fix the minds of the nation, to dis
criminate internal friends from lurking foes
to enforce discipline, and to get things on £
resectable war eftablifliment. So far mat
ters seem proper : whether a serious inva
lion of the Austrian provinces was evei
intended, is not clear. In future, we Ihal
remain on the defenfive, unless by fom<
?vent forced to do otherwise, at least thi:
is the opinion of people versed in the politic:
as the kingdom.—As to other matters, the
Aflembly has given a severe blow to ftock
iobbing, by decreeing that the patriorit
funds (hall be under the direfrion of a con
sulted authority, and that no notes lhal! ir
future be emitted, except by the munici
palities.—Advices from the frontiers in
orm us that it is pleasant to fee how wil
ingly people haste to those parts to aflift
n defending their country against any in
'afion, and toproteftthe constitution. It
s not probable, however, that any thing
■ery material will take place, in military
tifairs, till the combined armies have (iiewn
hemfelves in the Austrian Low Coun
ties."
The university of Leyden, in Holland, in
jrtler to throw all poflible light upon a sub
eft, 011 which several maritime nations are
jivided in opinion, haspropofed the follow
ngqueftion for discussion, 'Qjuaritur,qiiidcthka,
urn philofophica, turn prcrfertim Chrjliana, praicipi
it dejervitute ?—What are the precepts in
dicated by moral and Christian philosophy
n respect to slavery ?—The best diflertation
on this subject (not to exceed 40 page ) is
:o gain the prize, Thediffertationsare to be
written in Latin ind Dutch.
The following little incident (from a
late French paper) will give some idea of
:he character of Francis 1 It, king of Hunga
-y and Bohemia.
" This morning the king, wrapped in an
jld riding coat, and a mean looking hat,
xemincog to the wheat market,to hear-with
lis own ears the complaints of the people,
:o observe the abuses of the government,
uid, if poflible, fall upon some method of
•emedying them. He was »n the mid-t of
:he crowd, when he happened to direct his
?ye towards a crowd ot people that were
lurrying to a public house, at a fi'iall dif
ance. He aihed, what was the matter ? and
.vas answered that three men were there
.vhohad been condemned to receive 50 lathes
:ach, for speaking difrefpe£tfully of the me-
Tiory of tl e liteemperorLeopold. The king
sventinftantiy to :he public house, & desired
:o be admitted. The centinel refufed.
I'he king then made himfelf known, and
he doors were in a moment thrown open.
One of the men had already received ten
evere ladies ; he was then let down from
the poll to breathe awhile, for another flog*
jing. she king oblerving this, ordered them
to unbind the man that had been flagellated,
at the fame time advising him, in future, to
observe moderation when the character of
the late Emperor was the fubjett of his
conversation. He then represented to the
Colonel, who had arbitrarily infiifted this
punishment, the impropriety of so severe a
caltigation for so tnjling a fault. " I have
need of wen in my army (said he) and by
your treatment you make my fubjefb inva
lids ; you are difmilled therefore forever
from my service."
The English parliamentary debates put it
beyond a doubt that the face of the govern
ment {whatever may be the sentiments of
the people) is set against all innovations and
cOnttitutional reforms ; and therefore, as
far as prudential considerations will per
mit, the writings of Paine and the efforts ol
patriotic societies throughout the kingdom
will be discouraged and discountenanced.
t>n the 25th of May the master of the rolls
made a mot.on in theßritifh House of Com
mons that" All humble address of thanks be
presented to hi: Majefty,exprellive of the at
tachment of the House to his person and
family, and their determination to exert
themfe'lves in opposing the wicked purposes
of the (editions writings aiming to destroy
the tranquility of the kingdom."—He con
ceived (he (;i;d) that the writings alluded
to (Paine's Rights of Man, &c.) would
have been, when firftprinted, treated with
contempt by every man in the nation, and
conligned with the contempt they merited,
to oblivion ; but though they were treated
with contempt by the majority of the na
tion, it was notorious that there were so
cieties which had pre (Fed these seditious
writings on the public, and with industry
had distributed them throughout the coun
try ; and it %vas also known that corref
poudences had been held by those societies
with foreign clubs, for the purpose of dis
seminating the moil dangerous principles;
no one could fay that it was not the duty
of administration to come forward anil
exert themfelvesin the maintenance of the
tranquility ot the kingdom by endeavoring
to counteract: the poison of those publica
tions. The people were happy; why then were
they to be insulted by a recommendation of
the example of a neighbouring kingdom
lhat recommendation had however beet*
propagated in the mod dangerous way ; it*
had been held out to every description of
men, and had been difieminated in schools
and public seminaries ; it was then high
time for the interference of government to
prevent the evil that might ante.
A late Southern paper mentions, that a
violent fever rages in Charleston. It is laid
to be of a kind which the physicians are,
generally speaking, unacquainted with—
and consequently in many instances, it baf
fles their endeavors to effect a cure. The
mortality is very alarming, as the patient
seldom lives more than three days from the
firft fymptoins of the disease.
The Island of Martinico, according to
letters from thence, has been for some time
part in a {fate of ferment. The planters
in general are of what are called the aris
tocratic party, who had influenced the
greater part of the land-forces in the forts,
barracks,&c. to revolt. In consequence
as their outrages, two 74 gun {hips of war
were warped opposite the forts and brovfght
:heir guns to bear thereon. This so inti
midated the troops in Fort Bourbon that
:hey sent in their acknowledgments—after
bme further time, those in Fort Louis did
:he fame ; and the regiments from both
were sent on board a transport under pro
reclion of the two feveuty-fours. The 12th
rf June was the day appointed for their
"ailing for France, but it was not expected
:he vefi'els in which they were embarked
would leave the island before the 23d.
Port-au-Prince (fa)'s an authentic ac
count) has been for some time occupied and
governed by a rabble, without property,
honor, orhonefty, who have conftantfyop
pofed the decree of the National Aflembly,
giving the rights of active citizens to free
Negroes and Mulattoes ; to enforce this
decree, and to pave the way for restoring
order in the island, an expedition has been
recently undertaken, with two 74 gun
{hips, and several fmailer veflels, which left
St. Marks the 22d of June, and after expe
riencing a variety of difficulties, anchored
before Port-au-Prince on the 26th in the
evening. Instead of summoning the town
to an inflant furreuder, which it was tho't
by many would have been a decisive stroke,
the commander in chief of the expedition
entered into a parley with the insurgent
chief in the towj), which gave many crimi
nal characters an opportunity to escape.
On the sth of July the comm "ider of the
land forces 011 this expedition entered
Port-au-Prince at S in the morning, at the
head of several hundred volunteers—an
liour after, the 1 onnniflary entered with
the national troops that had been encamped
in the neighbourhood ; and, at about 10,
the army came in that had been aUembled
for a long time part at Croix <les Bouquets.
When these accounts left Hifpanioht, per
fect tranquility was not yet reltored in Port
au-Prince, every effort being made by the
disorderly inhabitants to seduce the crews,
and renew their lawleft practices. A few
Jays before the arrival of this expedition,
Pralots,the commander of a gang of merce
nary negroes, was to have attacked the
camp of Troubordet, and deltrov ail by fire
and sword in his way to Jactnel, where he
was alio to make an attempt—ail avenues
to escape being cut oft, and every palYagei
previously guarded, he was obliged to re-l
main in Port-au-Prince, and was there'
seized.
The public are cautioned in the Virginia,
Maryl tnd, and other papers, to beware of
purchasing Virginia military certificates, a
conliderable number having been lately of
fered for sale, which had every appearance
of forgery.
A very considerable number of Irish emi
grants have arrived in this and other ftatet
during the present mouth. Report fays
that thefpirit of emigration is so prevalent
in Ireland, especially in the northern and
eastern parts, that the lower and middling
clalfes would universally remove to thisfide
of the Atlantic, could they hud {hips to
bring them off.
The President of the United States, and
his Lady, arrived on the 17th Lnft. in good
health, at Mount V ernon.OiWednefday evening the 2jth instant,
was held at the (tate-houfe, in this city, a
meeting of a considerable number of citi
zens, on the subject of framing a tickfet for
Representatives in Congress, Sec. when the
following motion was agreed to.
" That a committee be appointed to re
port the names of suitable persons to serve
as conferees in a general conference to be
held by them and other persons from the se
veral Counties in this Commonwealth, for
the purpose of forming andpropoling rickets
with the names ofproper persons to be vo
ted for, at the next election to represent
this state in the Houfeof Keprefentativesoi
the United States, and to fervc as electors
ofPrelident and Vice-Prelident."
After appointing committees of confe
rence and correspondence, the meeting ad
journed to Friday evening the 27th iniiant,
to determine on the report, naming the con
ferees, and on instructions to be given them.
There are some men in this country who
are continually prating on the fubjeit oi
Titles. Even the title of the National Ga
zette is grumbled at by certain persons,
who till lately have been great advocate
) for titular diltinftions. We have been
frequently admonished to alter, reject, or
modify our title, to all which we shall only
reply, pray, Mrjjieurs Pi inters, take care ofyou?
own Titles.
Exh ast ofa letter from Albany, dated July 17.
" There can be no doubt, from a con
currence of circumstances, but that the
Biitilhat the poits, as well as the India!:
tribes, inflnenced and directed by them
have been active in recommending peace t<
those nations adjoining the frontier of the
United States more southerly. Nothing
seems now to be wanting to make a fur.
system of pacification with the savages, btr
a fixed line of honest demeanour toward
the hottile Indians, treating them as \vt
ourfelvesin their circumstances and situa
tion would wilh to be treated. As it i
more than probable a treaty will be formet
erelong, the prefei vution of it multdepem:
upon the vigour of government in feeing the
terms carryed into execution, and the in
fringers thereof punilhed."
[From Georgetown, Potozrmack, July 21]
On Sunday tall the Preiident of the Unit
ed States arrived in this city from Philadel
phia, and 011 Tuesday set out for his feat al
Mount Vernon.
On Monday and Tuesday last the Preli
dent of the United States, and the Commis
sioners of the Federal buildings, examined
the plans for a Capitol, and Prefident'i
House, to be erefttd in the City of Wadi
irigton ; leveral of conliderable merit l'oi
each building, were presented. The pre
mium for the best plan of a Prefident'i
House was adjudged to James tjoben, froir
Charleston, South-Carolina, but no deci
sion was given in favor of any plan for £
Capitol : three or fouroffuperior merit are
under consideration, and it is expected thai
the Commlilioner/s at their next meeting
(the ill of August) will then make theii
eleQion.
The Pittlburgh paper of the 21ft inftanr.
lias tiie following paragraphs : —
" The Indians on Tuesday last (July
killed two 111 fn and one woman, and stole
seven horses between the fiats of Grave-
CreekandCol. Shepherd's in Ohio county
Virginia : Lt. Gray and 14 of Capt. Paul'!
men followvd them over the Ohio, as far ;i'
the head of Suiififh, but the Indians being or
horseback they returned without coming
up with tJrein. On Saturday lail at Dilly'
station oppolite the mouth of Grave-Creek,
the Indians cams into one of the house;
and lulled four and wounded one; the
numb ;r of Indians were supposed to be 20
It is thought they will (trike this quarter.
To-morrow morning we expe£t toftart wit!
a party to try to fall in with them."'
Monday last arrived in town £rom the
eastward, Capt. Stake's troop of horse, un
der the command of Lieut. Campbell,
And 011 1 uefday a detachment of be
tween two and three hundred men, undei
the command of Major Alheton.
The fame day Captain t auikner's'rifle
company marched into town from Wafh
ingtoa county.
Foreign Aews, from London Papers.
Brnffels, May 18. Intelligence has beer)
just received here, that the little town ol
Bavay, between Valenciennes and Meu
buge, was yellerday taken by the Auitrians,
and 108 men,with 4 officers,who were there
ported, made prisoners.
(The gazette likewise contains a procla
mation, forbidding any of his Majelty's sub
jects serving at sea any foreign power, or
fitting out privateers againit any ; alio no
tice of the marriage of Prince Maximilian
of Drefclen, with the Princess of Parma ;
the deliver/of the Queen of Naples of a
Prince, and the appointment of Sir Lucas
pepys, as physician in ordinary to his Majes
ty, on the ceathof Sir Noah Thomas.')
May 25. This government has received
an account, that general Sztaray, who had
been quartered at Charier >y, to wa.ch the
movements of M. de la 1 -yett;'. army,
having unuerltood that a lai e detachment
was polled at a place called Flor me, at 110
great diftaace from Pnilipi ille,' he ref-ii/ed
to attack it, though hi 1 force was m: Ii in
terior ; M. de Goavioa'. .lumb.rs being
citinured at seven ;aoufa;.d, and tiio.e i/i
general Sztaray at but three- The French,
after a;i obstinate reliftauce, in the end gave
way, leaving 150 dead, several wounded, 3
p eces of ca;;non, and all their baggage and
ammunition ; the loss of the Auftrians was
four killed and twenty-two wounded. No
more particular circumstances of this aflion
are as yet received.
London, May 29. A report is prevalent
in the higher circles, that the Duke of Port
land, with all his interest, means to ast in
future with the Minister.
Lord Thurlow is likely to continue the
"eals, though not to ast: as a Cabinet Minis
ter, for some time ; a certain personage
having requested him to hold them until lie
had gone through all his decrees on caufe--
completely heard.
The city of London yesterday voted an
iddrefs of thanks to the King for his pro
clamation.
Light-houses. —Very coniiderable im
provements are to be made in the light
houses along the coast. The patent lamps
ire to be generally adopted, and the North-
Foreland light-bouse is to be heightened
22 feet.
Last weekCapt. Hartwell made a survey
3f the light-houses upon the coast of Kent
ind Suifex, in confequeuce of which the a
jove important alterations are to take
Dlace.
It is reported, that intelligence was this
morning brought to town by the Dover
mail, said to have been received there jnft
aefore the coach set off, stating that the
CJiieen of France had been murdered : but
reports of this kind having been frequently
circulated without any foundation, we
imirt content ourselves for the present by
Pimply stating the report, without vouching
in any way for its authenticity.
The Chancellor, it is now said in the
higher circles, will remain in oflice. The
iitmoft efforts have been made at Bucking
ham house, to reconcile him with Mr. Pitt,
and they are at last likely to be fuccefsful.
On Friday the 45th, in the 74th year of
his age, died, the Right Hon. ('FORGE
BRIDGLS RODNEY, Lord Rodney, Ba
ron Rodney, Rodney of Stoke, Somcrfet
fhire, Baron and K. B. an Admiral of the
White, and Vice-Admiral of England :
His Lordlhip is succeeded in title andeftate
by his eldest son, the Hon. George Rodney,
who married April 10th, 1781, Martha,
daughter of the Right Hon. Alderman
Harley, and his iflue.
In honor of the memory of Lord Rod
ney, several veU'els in the dock have their
colours half mast.
Lord Rodney, on the morning of his
:ieath, walked out in the moll: perfect
health, returned todiefsfor dinner about
our o'clock, when he received a paralytic
troke, and expired almost inftantaneouly.
[The following is from the Leyden Gazette.]
" The friends of France, and her reno
vated liberties, are not without hopes that
is soon as the executive department is filled
with proper ofticers, the interior tranquility
}f the kingdom will be restored. The
roubles in the diftrifts have been for a long
:!me past rather increasing than otherwise ;
ind no sooner do we hear of riots being
quelled in one place than frefti accounts ot
uniult and dillurbance arrive from others.
There seems, in fait, a train of powder
pread over the face of the kingdom, which
nenaces a general explolion, if the wifelf
ii-afures are not adopted to prevent it.
Paris had always, heretofore, the character
jf the most peaceable and well ordered ca
jital in Europe. It is ow the resort of
:migrants, who are returning from nil
1 irts of the continent, and of consequence
he population exceeds all calculations
leretofore made. Eceleliaftics swarm
hroughoutthe city, although no longer
liftinguiflied by their facei dotal vestments ;
ind among these are sixty thousand ot the
lon-juring party. Perfecutcd ill tlieir own
irovinces, and badly paid, they flock to the
apical, where they enjoy some kind of re
ief in the midst of the immense lioft of the
human race that cover the loil of this great
city."
A lite Boston paper makes heavy com
plaints of the great number of quack-doc
rors who are swarming up and down that
ffate, '• seeking whom they may devour."
The writer states their whole qualifications
ro be, " a phial of brandy, a small bundle
□f roots and herbs, iix or eight months ftu
llv, a number of old latin phrases, and a
few technical terms." He advises ihem to
ivear -a sword at their fides to Ihew they
have a coinmiffion to kill—perhaps the re
maining part of his advice will not be so
well reliihed by these sprouts of Efculapius
—that they " ought to be confined to a
dole room, and fed 011 jalap, cat-mint tea.
and water-gruel ; and if found guiltv of
taking to be (entenced io perpetual
(lavery in Caftle-Wiiliam.
[If a judgment may be justly formed from
the various Toasts that have been drank
this year on the fourth and fourteenth of July,
the republican f'pirit is very fact riling in this
country, to re-assume its former e.evation
011 the political thermometer; and the
cause of France, if an opinion may be form
ed from the universal e'iti lions in favour
of the patriotic cause, is become in a great
degree our own : As our narrow limits do
not allow us to copy ail the various to as • s
d ank in favour of republicanism and the
rfchts of man, we for the prcfent insert the
following from Bennington, as a sample ot
u|id:fguifed parriotiiin and jjoneft Jiirtpli
city.]
Bennington (Vermont) July 13.
Wednesday la.lt week, being the evei
memorable fourih of July, the federal offi
cers ffationed in tliis place, ordered theii
company to parade at j o'clock afternoon
wd after performing fnndry manoeuvres
narched them with a piece of artillerj
from the meeting-house to Mars Hill, it
ront of the court-house, at sunset they be.
;an adifcharge of eight cannon on the mili
ary parade.—-Between which
:laimed the eight following laconic ami l'en
Imental toasts.
1. The birth day of American indepen
lence.
2. The legislature of the United States :
nay patriotism aituate and wifdoni guide
hem.
3. The President of the United States;
jod Almighty bless him !
4. The four fe'deral regiments ; may
heir expedition be glorious.
5. Major-general Anthony Wayne; ma)
lis prudence equal his courage.
:6. The memory of the unfortunate he
■oes'whofell at the "Jlig/it" of St. Clair ;
elt to their fouls.
7. The revolution of France ; may the)
upport it. -
8. The temporal and eternal felicity oi
ill mankind.
The comp'any were then difmifled, anc
he officers .oined a reputable number o:
'ounggentlemen of the town, at the count)
louse, and 011 the discharge of feren guns
lie fifteen following liberal toasts wen
riven alternately, by the citizens and oili
;ers.
1. Citizens. The federal company of Ver
liont ; may their chara&er shine so cenfpi
tuous as to be beyond encomium.
2. Officers. The citizens of Vermont :
nay their industry ever be blest with plcn
:iful harvests.
3. Cit. A glorious war, and an honorablt
jeace.
4- Off. His Excellency Governor Chit
encen : may his decline of life be peace
ful, and his exit to immortal glory sure.
5. Cit. May the hoftiie savages yield t<
he American arms.
6. Off. The nulitia of the United States ;
nay it prove the nursery of heroes.
7. Cit. May the gallant American war
"iors return fafe crowned with laurels ;
md meeting in the arms of the deserving
air, reft from their toils.
8. Off. To the patrons of industry and
cience ; the olive lhade and domestic feli
:ity.
9. Cit. May the Elyfian fields be the por
ion of all heroes.
10. (ff. The venerable clergy of all de
lominutions.
11. Cit. May he embrace the fair whc
lares e:iter a breach.
12. Off. The fair creation ! may theii
virtues lubdue more hearts than their beau
ties.
13. Cit. The American constitution :
may it never depart from its original pu
rity.
14. Off. May an honest citizen nevei
wear an empty purse,
15. May conviviality increase with wine
—and wine increase with conviviality.
In compliment to a gentleman present.
from the Britilll army, was given by the fe
deral officers—" The officers of the Britid
army : they are Englishmen, and brothers.'
The circle retired forgetful and happy
From the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES
Mr. Fennoj ,
THE Eilitorofthe " National Gazette'
receives a salary from government: —
(here —Whether this salary is paid bimfoi
tr,:njlati<ms; or for publications, the design o;
which is to vilify those to whom th<
voice of the peopje has committed the ad
ministration of our public affairs —to oppoft
the measures of government, and, by falft
insinuations, to diiturb the public peace ?
In common life it is thought ungrateful
for a man to bite the hand that puts breat
in his mouth ; but if the man is hired to dc
it, the cafe is altered. T.L.
[The above is beneath a reply. It might
be queried, however, whether a man whc
receives a small stipend for services render
ed as French tranllator to the department
offtate, and, as editor of a free newspaper,
admits into his publication impartial flric
tures on the proceedings of government, is
not more likely to ast an honest and disin
terested part towards the public, than a vile
sycophant, who obtaining emoluments from
government, far more lucrative than the
salary alluded to (by undermining another
who was in pofftffion of the employ) finds
his incerelt in attempting to poison the
minds of the people by propagating and
difl'eminating principles and sentiments ut
terly (Itbverlive of the true republican in
terests of this country,and by flattering and
recommending every and any measure of go
vernment, however pernicious and deftruc
t.ve its tendency mighsbe, to the great bo
dy of the people.——The world is left to
decide on the motives of jrach.]
ODE 111.
[Note well—the following is to befung or fa id as
occasion may require.]
SINCE the day we attempted the Nation's
Gazette
Pompofo's dull printer does nothing but fret;
Now preaching
And screeching,
Then nibbling
And scribbling,
Remarking
And barking,
Repining
And whining,
And still in a pet
From morning till night with the Nation's Ga
zette.
[nftead of whole columns, our page to abuse,
if our readers would rather be treated with news ;
' While wars are a-brewing
And kingdoms undoing,
While monarchs are falling
And princefTes squalling,
While Fiance is reforming
And Iriflimen storming—
[p a glare of such splendour, what nonsense to
fret
kt so humble a thing as —the Nation's Gazette !
No favours we afk'd from your friends in the eafi ;
On your wretched I left them to
sea ft—
So many base lies you have in print
That scarcely a man at our paper willfquint:
And now you begin jf> -
With a grunt and a grin.
With the bray of an ass,
And a visage of brass.
With a quill in your hand and a lie in your mouth
To play the fame trick on the men of the south.
One National Paper, you think, is enough
To flatter and lie, to pallaver and puff ;
l o preach up in favour of monarchs and titles,
And garters, and ribbons, to prey on our vitals :
Who knows but our Congress will give it in fee
And make Mr. Fenno the grand patentee
Then take to your fcrapcis
Oilier national papers—
No rogue {hall go snacks,
And the NEWSPAPER-TAX
Shall be putf'd to the fkics
As a measure moll wile—
So a spaniel, when master is angry and kicks it
Sneaks up to his shoe, and fubmiirively licks it.
July 26.
PRICE or STOCKS.
6 Per cents . 2i/to2i/2 21/4
3 Per cents . 12/6
Deferred . 13/ to 13/1
Whole Shares Bank U.S. 43 per cent.
ADVERTISEMENT EXTRAORDINARY.
W ANTE D,
A PLACE in a Public Office in this city
—No objection to acting as French
Franflalor to the Department of State,
hould the present incumbent be oufteci or
•efign.
N.B. Times being hard, the duty will
ie done at extraordinary low wages, be
ides foul, body, and confidence surrendered
:o the absolute disposal of government.—
Mine addressed to T. L. at Mr. Fenno's,
Mo. 69, High-street, will be thankfully at
ended to.
July 28.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale at the Printing-Office,
No. 20;, Market-Screet,
and at Thom; s Dobfon's Book-Store in
Seco,id-Street,
Price Three-Eighth of a Dollar,
ADVICE
TO THE
PRIVILEGED ORDERS,
in the
'EVERAL STATES of EUROPE,
Resulting from the necessity and pro
priety of a General Revolution in
the Principle of Government.
By Joel Barlow, Esquire.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale by the Printer,
[ohnM'Culioch, at No, i. North Third-
Street, and by 1110 ft of the Book-
Sellers in this e'ty,
(Price 3/9)
MODERN CHIVALRY:
Containing the
Adventures of Capt.JohnFarrago,
and
Teague O'Regan,
his Servant.
volume 11.
By H. 11. BRACKEN RIDGE.
Quicqvid ogunt Homines. trojlri, Farrago liieih
Juvenal.\_IROM A CORRESPONDENT.]
TH& fublequent short, tho* melancholy nar
rative cannn tail ot exciting the iympa
t'uy of the brave and good wherever it may be
rea d, a/.d whe lever t'r.rfate of the three ainiaalc
you .i , may be diUlofcd t3 the heart and eye of
i eligibility#
11 u'EiRT Sevier and William Sevier
vveic twin-brothers, 'Movcly and pleasant in their
lives, and in their deaths were not divided."
Thcv with Valentine Sevier, their brother, were
iur.i of Col. Valentine Sevier, of North Caroli
na.
On the 15th day of January last, influenced by
motives of humanity, tmry lent their voluntary aid
10 Cap. llice, whillt endeavouring to item :he
tun cut of Cumberland river, with ail his nume
rous family, and the small remains of a humble
property, in order to escape the unrelenting bar
barity of lavage foes, whole ir.fidious plans, while
fkoilking in the woods along the liver, were too
fuccefsfull in lopping off from human exigence
at one fire, and at the fame inliant, the above na
med amiable twin-youths and iraterna! friends.
V.® lent ine Sevier, their brother, fell bv the
fire of the lavages the next day 5 who had gone
upon a different route, 10 render a ferv ice equal
ly humane and generous. Ye ir.en of, sympathy,
what must be your feelings for the keen diftrel
i>f a father, ii> d few hours depiived of three
promiling lons, not yet arrived to the prime ol
manhood, and who promised to be his flay and
tupport in the decline life. Notwithjlanding
the provocation, however, ic is hoped the friends
of the deceased will inanireft such a (hare of mag
nanimity, as not to take vengeance on the inno
cent tor the ferocious ast of the guilty, and whai
may .pofiiiriy be held juftiliable in their mode ot
warfare. The following stanzas wer6 occasioned
by tha«£pregoing m lancholy event, and may be
confident! as a small, inadequate tribute to the
memory ofdeceuleu worth and virtue :
IN the fame hour two lovely youths were born,
Nature with care had.moulded either clay :
In the fame hour from this world's limits torn
The murderous Indian ftiz'd their lives away.
Diftiefs to aid, impeiPd ?ach generous breast,
With nervous arm they flemni'd the auverft
tidc '
In friendfhip's a£t encounter'd death's arre.O-,
Bfann-lefs they liv'd' in lunjur's path thej
died.
But ah ! what art fhalJ dry a father's tears-
Loft, early loft !—no art beguiles his pain ,
Clouds (hade his fur ,dnd grie s advance'with years
Nature gave joys, to take those joys again !
Thou, that (halt ftrav to these fcquefter'd streams
When times to come their story shall relate—
Let the fond heart, that native worth esteems,
Revere their virtues and b?moan their fate •
On the Arifiocratical tendency of Chance-y Courts
[From a NiiV'York paper .J
One rhin;j enumerated by Congress as a griev
, ance, and as an infringement of our rights bj
the king and parliament of Great Britain, vva:
their depriving us, in many instances, of trial b>
jury, itr this particular, we are no better cfi
new, tha.« before . The fame aristocratic princi
ples ot the Biitiih government are interwover
in our government. In all controversy of com
mon Uw, jurie3 arc the sole judges of law anc
equity ; but of what value is their deufion, or
the privilege of trial bv a jury in civil cases,
when at* the option of either party, the decifior
of a jury can be removed into a court of chancery :
where the verdict of a jury of our peers, may be
revc rfed by the chancellor, and from his decifior
to a court of error ? This appears, to me a per
fect jargon, and a complicated piece of nonsense
If it be right and just, that a pcrfon llrall be com
pelled to jvive evidence against himfeJf, as is the
caCe in courts of chancery j why not the fam<
p-.adlicebe admitted in common law; if it b<
unjust to compel any person to evidence again <;
himfelf in common law procedure, why fuiierec
to be compelled in any court whatever ? I car
fee no valuable purpose it can be to have our law;
so complicated, unless it be, fir ft to multiply Jay
prcceedings, procrastinate and delay justice, mul
tiply cost, and give the aristocratic party ver;
great advantages over the commonalty. There,
fore, I am ot opinion, that the court of chancers
ought wholly to be abolished, as a glaring in
fiance ofopprefiion and partial admiriiftiation o
jultice, and openly calculated to maintain an ar
bitrary aristocratic influence and decifun of lav
over the commonilty. Jt may be insisted on
that as courts of chancery are open to the poor, 0:
middle forts of people, as weli as to the rich, it is
just j I answer, that the excefiive expence attend
ing chancery fuits,is an effectual bar to all, ex
cept those that have long purles $ therefore, ii
the plaintiff or defendant be in (lender circum
ffartce's, they had better lose the suit in coramor
law,than to pay a cost more, or as much as tht
matter in cjueition is worth : Bt'fides, in refpefi
ef what may be called a jury of our peers, I con
ceive it is to be men of the fame vicinage anc
inen of the like circumstances in life. Are chan
cellors men of the like conditions in life with
the poor or middletlafs of people ? I answer, no:
but;on the contrary they are the peers of th«
great, and the opulent, if in decisions of law 3
is it likeiy if partiality fnould ever appear, to
have it i:i favour of commonalty ? The proba
bility is so small, that ic hardly admits of a
possibility uut if there is any, it is sure to be
in favour of their own class. But if all men
are born to equal rights in a community, why
two modes of Jaw-dtclfion : one fp r the rich,
and the other for a different clafj of men ?
This is one of the dregs of the Britilh ccn.iitu
tion, and ought to be obje&ea :o as nugatory,
mockery, and defraud j and if there be a contro
versy in common law and one of the party be of
the common branch, and the other be cf the
higher class, the jury ought to be composed of
each clafi cue half,, as near as be.
AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft SefTion, begun and held at the city o
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania
on Monday the twenty-fourth of October, on<
tlioufand leven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT making certain appropriations therm
fpict/Ud.
E it enailed. by the Senate and Houf<
JL3 of Representatives of the Unittd Statu
0/ America in Congress assembled, That there
be granted and appropriated the following lums
for the following purpoles, to wit : For the
discharge of a balance to the commissioners ap
pointed under the a£t of Congress of the fif
teenth of March one thousand leven hundred
and eighty five, two thousand seven hundred and
eighty seven dollars, and eighty eight cents :
For additional ialary to the fiifl cleik of the
commifiioners for fettling accounts between the
United States and individual States, one hundred
and eighty leven dollars and ninety one cents ;
bor defraying the expenle of Dating & piinting
certain public accounts, putluant to the order
d! the Iloufe of Representatives of the thirtieth
of December one thousand seven hundred and
ninety one, eight hundred dollars ; For dilcharg
i the accounts of officers ot the courts of the
United States, jurors and witncfTes, in aid of the
and heretofoie appropriated, leventeen thouland
dollars; For making good deficiencies in former
ippiopriations lor defraying the expence or the
-numeration of the inhabitants of the United
Slates tour thousand fix hundred and ninety five
ioliars, and fifty nine cents ; For discharging
-ertain accountsagainll the treasury department,
.0 he end of the year one thousand seven hun
dred and ninety one, including a sum
of fix hundred dollars, for furnifhing the
fupervilors of the revenue with (crew prel
les, l'eals, and other articles, one thousand
sine hundred and fifty five dollars, and sixty one
:ents; For a balance due to lieutenant John
Freeman ofthe late Maryland line, on account
)f fubfiffenee for the years one thousand seven
lundred and eighty two and one thousand seven
lundred and eighty three, forty one dollars and
seventy five cents; For compeufations to the
:lerks ofthe afling commillioner of army ac
:ounts, anu contingencies of his office one thou
land three hundred and twenty nine dollars and
sixteen cents ; For additional compenlations to
[he doorkeepers of the House of Representa
tives, pursuant to a relblution of the House, of
:he twenty fourth of Mai eh lafl, seven hundred
dollars ; for the discharge of such demands
againll the United States, nototherwife provi
ded for, as shall have been ascertained and ad
mitted, in due course of fettlemen: at the trea
sury, and which are of a nature, according to
the usage thereof, to require payment in fprcie,
five thousand dollars : All which laid funis, a
mounting together, to thirty four thousand four
hundred and ninety seven dollars and nine
ty cents, shall and may be paid out of the
funds following, any, or all of them ; namely ;
thefurplufes which may remain of appropriati
ons heretofore made, after fatisfying the purpo
les of such appropriations ; monies which have
been paid into the treasury, in consequence of
balances which have been found due from in
dividuals, relating to transactions prior to the
present government of the United States ; the
iurplus, not heretofore appropriated, of the du
ties on imports and tonnage, which accrued to
ihe end of the year one thousand seven hundred
and ninety one.
And be it further cnaEled, That so much of the
afoiefaid furplns of the duties on imports and
tonnage, which accrued to the end of the year
one thouland seven hundred and ninety cne, as
may benecelfarv, shall be and is hereby.appro
priated, in addition to the provision heretofore
made, towai ds defraying the expenses, which
lhail have been incurred in the execution of the
a£l for railing and adding another regiment to the
military ellablifhment of the United States, and
for making farther provision for the protection
of the fionticrs, within the limits of the sum of
ihree hundred and twelve thousand, fix hundred
and eighty fix dollars, and twenty cents thereby
authorized - and towards reimbursing any sums,
which may have been bonoWed, or advances of
money which may have been obtained for that
purpose.
And be it further cnaßcd, That a sum of fifty
ihoufand dollars in addition to the fnoyifioH
leretofore made be appropriated to defray any
:xpenfe which may be incurred in relation to the
ntercourfe between the United States and so
eign nations, to be paid out of any monies which
may be in the treasury, not otherwise oppropri
jtcd, and to be applied under the direction of the
President ofilre United States who, if necessary,
is authorized to borrow, on the credit of the U
uited States, the fald sum of fifty thousand dol
lars ; an account of the expenditure whereof as
loon as may be, shall be laid before Congress.
Approved by the Frisidint, May Stb, 1791.
* * Three har.dfome Editions ofthe Latvs
of the United r tales for sale at this office
(No. 209 Marketfireet) in folio ar.d ofla
vo, either full or half bound— N.B. The
Laws cfthelafl Stjfion, in odavo janty, may
be hadfeparate, price three eighths cf a dollar.
%* For sale at this Office, Sermon r by
the Rcv'd Dr. William Linn, of A r . York
Price 5/7 t-2.
TO BE LET,
A DWELLING HOUSE, containing
three rooms, with a kitchen, cellar,
and garret, in North Sixth-street. To be
let for five months, upon very reasonable
terms, and when that time is expired may
be had from the landlord.—Apply to Mr.
BafcherotNo. 96, North Eievenih-ftreet.
July 25, 3 £ .
George Town, June 2, 1792.
A NUMBER ot LOTS in every htuation
which may be delired in the city of Wa(h
ngcon, will be offered for sale, by the Commif
ioners on Monday the Bth day of October next.
One fourth part of the purchase money to b<
laid down, the refiJue in three equal annua) pay
ments, with yeatly interest on the whole princi
jal unpaid. JOHN M. GANTT.
Clerk to the Commiflioners.
July 25.
NEW-YORK Sc PHILADELPHIA STAGES
Via Bordentown and Burlington,
And SHREWSBURY & PHILADELPHIA
STAGE,
Via Bordintown,
TH£ proprietors of the New-York and Phi
ladelphia land and water Stages beg leave t<
mention, 4 that for the better accommodation o
paflengers, they have thought proper to removi
different packet boa's from their former stand
nt the Crooked Billet wharf, to the wharf or docl
immediately nextbelow Arch-ftreer, from whence
on the iirft day of July next, and afterwards, ;
convenient packet-boat will start for New-York
33 ufuai, on every Sunday, Tuesday, Wednefda]
and r I hurlday, and return on every Tuesday
Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The pafiage t<
be made eitnei by the way of Bordentown or Bur
lington, each place to be taken alternately. Fare
for pafiepgers from Philadelphia to New-Yuri
Big.--For Goods pr. cut. 6.
VAN EMBURGH Sc M'KEAN,
DAVJD WILLIAMSON,
Pioprietors of the line of New-York and Phi
iaJclyhia Stages, by the route of Bordentown
JACOB MYERS,
.AMOS HUTCH IN,
NICHOLAS SCHENK,
Proprietors of the line of N. Yoik and Phila
dclpiiia Stages, b) the route of Burlington.
Tlie Shrewsbury Stage will leave Philadelphi
n the months of July and September, on ever'
Sunday and WcdnefHay, and return on ever;
Tuesday and Friday. In the month of August
t will leave Philadelphia on every Sunday am
Thuriday, and leturn on every Tuesday and Sa
:urday.
VAN EMBURGH Sc M'KEAN
DANIEL LOT,
Pioprietors of the ohrewib-ury and Philad. Stage
Bordentown, June 25, 1792.
For freight or palfn>e apply to the masters or
aoird, or to M'KEAN & VAN EMBURGH
it their store on laid wharf, immediately next be
ow Arch-Street ; by whom orders for the furchaj
f all k mas of grainy slaves, or other country pro
iuce, are punctuahy attended to.
For freight or pafiage to Lamberton or Tren
ton, also apply as above. law
Philadelphia, June 27.
"books,
Printed and fold by
MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. American Museum, from its commencemen
>1 "January 1787, to December 1791, in ten vols
Price, neatly bound and lettered, jixteert dollars.
This work, which is now conducled on an im
brci-id plan, containing the bejl pieces publifhedfor
2nd <■ ga in ft the proceedings of government, will bi
fcund to contain at leaf as great a Variety of poll
'ica!, agricultural, ar.dmijcellaneous rfj'ays, as any
nerpublifhed in America. Perhaps in no one work
tifJFfo many 'valuable documents rejpe&'tng the hiflo
'y of this countiy, colleEied together. His excel
lency the President of the United States, has de
la red of it, that " a more ufeful literary plan
lias never been undertaken in America, nor one
more deserving of public encouragement." 7hi
Cubjcription is two dollars and a half per annum.
Gentlcrr.en in the country who wif}) to be fuppliea
zvith this work, are reyuefted to give comm'ijjion tt
frtir.ds in the city to fubjcribe for and receive it.
2. Lauiei' Pocket Library—containing : Mist
Ur/s Ef)'ays i Gregory's Legacy 5 Lady Pen
nington s advice ; Marchioness of Lambert's ad
vice j Swift's letter to a newly married lads ;
Mrs. Chapone on command of temper j More"s fa
bles for the ladies Price (>j6,
3. Smith's History of New-York. fr om itsfirfi
r et tlement to the year 1732. To which i s annexed,
1 dejeription ps tic country, •with a fiort account
f the inhabitants, their religious and political ftate3
ind the conjliiution of the courts of jufiice Price
i dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
ie, 1.1.p. profefjor of moral phi!oj opby and logic
'i tie Marijchal College, Aberdeen— Price three
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Critical Re
viewers (vol. 69. p. bi%) fay : " JVe have seen
nothing on these subjects r:.rc plain, more perfpicu
is, or more generally v.feful
5. Beauties of Poetry, British and American,
containing fclefl productions eftbe most eminent Bri
\[h and American poets. Price four fifths of a do/.
6. Blair's Sermons, containing the tubule of the
hrce volumes of the British edition, in two. Price
wo dollars.
7* A':, •' :i: : s 1 reatife on the importance of reli
fious opinions. Price four fifths of a dollar.
K. Examination of the objervations of Lord Shef
field's on American Comma ce. Price, on very fine
faper, Jive eighths (f a dollar.
9. V / f Conjlitu lions of the J'everal United States,
tvtth the federal Conjiitution, (3'c. Price five
tig!: fits of a dollar.
jo U-: ingal, an epic poem, a rem edition in
1211 o. Price three eighths of a dollar.
ti. American Je(t Book, in two parts, with
Iwo Very mat engravings. Price hound, three
fifths of s dollar.
12. Garden of the Soul, by B'tjhcp Chalenor•
Price, bound plain, half a dollar., in calf and let
red three quarters of a dollat, plain M ~ldol m
13* Douay Traujlation of the vulgate Bi
in quarto. Price, elegantly bound and lettered,
50fz —plain, fix dollars.
Said Carey has for sale, a large assortment of
books, European as well as American editions f
which he will difpcfn of on the mof} reajonable terms f
Country gentlemen, who favor him with commands,
may depend upon being Jupplied in the m Jffatisfac
tory manner. A liberal allowance to^fuch as pur
chaje quantities for public libraries, of to fell again.
May 17. 6m. la.w.
To be publijlied by Subfcription 9
THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR
Proceedings of the Old Congress,
From their firll Meeting in September 1774,
to their final difiblution in March 1789,
C COMPRISING a. full length, every impor
j tant resolution, order, address, declaration,
See. contained in the thirteen volumes of their
journals—a concise summary of the Isfs interest
ing parts, —an alphabetical lilt of appointments,
promotions and resignations—a collective viewin
the public expenditures, See. &c—the whole in
tended to serve as a fatisfaftory substitute for the
original journals, which are now out of print, and
of which the entire substance, un incumbered with
official formalities and repetitions, will here be
given in about one fourth of their present bulk,
accompanied with one complete general Index :
To which will be added, a copious and valuable
collection of
ORIGINAL STATE PAPERS,
from the Records and Files of Congress,
Containing (either verbatim,or in abftraft,
as the cases may severally require) such interest
ing pieces referred to in the journals, as may with
propriety be permitted to be made public, viz.
Letters from the different officers employed in
the public fcrvice during the late war—intercept
ed letters of the enemy—communications from
governors, (late li»gifl»cures, conventions, and
committees—difpatc.hes from agents and com
millioners—inftruftions--- reports of committees
of Conjrefs ; and various other authentic docu
ments, tending to th row a light on the important
events, to which America owes her present inde
pendence.
In the course of th;; work, will be introduced,
in their proner places, such parts of the
SECRET JOURNALS,
as no longer require secrecy.
As soon as 500 copies are fubferibed for, the
work will be put to pre fs, to hi delivered to sub-
Icribers, in numbers of 304 odtavo pages each, at
blue boards. The Sub -
fcription money will not be required for the firffc
Number, until the publication is begun j and
on the delivery of each number, half a dollar will
b» expected in advance for the succeeding one.
To non-fubferibers, the pr ; ce will be raised.
Subscriptions will bi* received by the pri n«
cipal booksellers :hroughou t the Union, and by
the Editor.'
JOHN CAREY.
No. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Subscriber has it in c. wtemplation soon
to decline nis prelent bufinel s—ind having on
hand a corfi Jerable quantity of iuperfine fecor.d
and elastic cloths, together with a variety of <• her
articles in his way, proposes to IVII them at the
following ieduced pees, ViZ.
Belt Superfine navy blue 34^
Ditto, ditto. Scarlet gS/,
Common colours fuperfine
Elastic (tripes gj\
London buff and White cafilmers jc/6.
Ditto, coloured do. i'c f.
Yorkshire do. do, n/6.
Striped toilenets \^f,
Ratcincts ,'f
Striped Nankeens :
A variety of waistcoat /hapes proportionally low
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London bett silk kofe, from 22/6 to 24 C
The above goods have been mostly imccric I from
oneolthefirlt mercan:ile houses in London , and
are of an equal quality oany imported into/ irne
rica; they v. ill be fild per piece or lmallcr qua r rity
as may belt suit the purchasers , by the put,lies
molt humble fervent, JOHN SHEPHEP-D.
person di/pofed to purchase tlie whole
of the above stock, may also have on reafonoble
terms his present cwelling house together
the a eligible situation for bu.finef t in
the tailor's line is not to be found in this city.
1 he advantage of this business bfcing so well ufta—
bliihcd by the proprietor will b: very grat, and
trom known facts, needs no comment.
A leale of fix >ears may be had of the houf>.
May aaw.tf.
Fifteen dollars reward
RUNAWAY from the fubferiber in Novem
ber 1791 a negro woman by th; name
or Alfe about 25 years of age ; the is a low well let
wench 1 m'thing on the yellow complexion with
a bulhy head of hair something related to the
Call India molat:oes,broad over the Ihoulders, ha»
holes in her cars and rings in them when went
away, flie can spin and weaie toJlerably well, ihe
has been at work in Milford and as high as Do
ver-Town in the Delaware Slate, in the month of
May i 7s i. I exped (lie has made higher up.
She at that time went by the ,iame of Blake.
Whoever takes up and fccures said Negro wench,
to as the owner may git her again, (hall have the
above reward—Living in Accomack countv, Vir
j^inia.
4t'«mes, 2 aw: CHARLES TURNSELL;
PRINTED B.Y
C H I L D S and S WAIN E,
AT TJIEIR OFFICE NO. 20$, HIGIf-S TKE E T
NEAR FIFTH-STREJT,
PHII AtE L fHI A•