Vol. I.
lottery BILL.
[The Lottery Mania king very prevalent]
' in llu United Statu, perhjps it may
not brove unacceptable to our readers to
pnJent 'th":H with afe.o jl'urt fetches from
the brincipalJpetches agamjt Lotteries, in
a late debate in th" Briiifh House 6j Com
mons on that fubjecl. Aiiirntidverjijiis of
this nut are nuiy jet our liyjlaters a think*
171 ,r on trie various and fcriovs evils at
tending that ixecra'jl: mode of taxation.J
npHE Older of the day, for the house
X to resolve itl'elf into a committee
on the lottery bill, having been read,
and the motion made, " tfiat the ipeak
er leave the chair,"'
Mr. M. A. Taylor f.»id,that " feeling
as he did on the fubjecl of the lottery,
it was impofiible to with-hold hisoppo
fition to the Speaker's leaving the chair.
If the pernicious eft'e&s of lotteries
were at all doubtful, Mr. .Taylor said,
he could produce luch examples of mif
chief cauicd by them, as would convince
the mo ft obstinate, or the moll preju
diced man living. His intention, he de
clared, was to propose a motion, tor a
committee to enquire into the evils re
iulting from lotteries. li any gentle
man at all looked at the.fubje£l, he was
persuaded he would find'that much mif
chief 'perpetually occurred in conle
quence every year, and if he wanted au
thorities, he flrould refer to the honora- j
b!e gentleman over the way (Mr. Rose) ;
who seemed to be aware of the griev
ance, bv the various bills ot regulation,
with ref'petl to lotteries, that he had
from time to time introduced, it that
gentleman would only look to the evil,
he would find that notwithstanding the
regulations he had endeavored to apply
to it, the evil l'Ull existed in full force.
Mr. Taylor read a paragraph from a
newspaper, Rating, that the grand jury
for Middlesex had at the lall fellions
presented lotteries as a grievance, in
confluence of t?ie illegal insurances
that always accompanied their being
drawn,-That article, he said, he should
think would have weight with the
house. The grand jury, it was obvious,
could not call lotteries nuisances. be
cause they were licensed by the legiila
ture ; but they applied to a court of
justice to fignify their lenie of their ef
fect*. In the niidft of a long and cala
mitous war," the argument of the ad
vantage that relulted to the public Irom
a lottery, might be urged with much
force, but he appealed to the right hon.
gentleman, whether we are at present
under any l'uch circumstances ? The
right hon. gentleman had lately propo
sed to give up some taxes, as well as to
apply an additional lum towards the
reduction of tire national debt. He de
clared, he wifhedvvith all his heart that
the right hon.gentleman had reierved
the taxes, and abandoned the lottery.—
He was fare the public would have de
rived more lafttng advantages, and have
had reason to give thanks ior luch a
preference. He was aware that lotte
ries raifefi money with a degree of la
bility iuperior to that of molt other
sources of revenue, and he admitted,
that it was a circumftsr.re of conhdera
ble importance ; but as it could be of
none under the present circumstances
of the country, and weighed again ft
the good morals of the people, it was
light and trivial. Another objection
to the lottery then proposed was, that
the evil was no longer to beocca'ional;
it was not to stop this year ! The right
hon. gentleman had himlelf propoied
to continue lotteries year after year. In
the ftrcets in that part of the town,
Mr. Taylor said, he understood there
were E.O. and hazard tables adapted
to all ranks of people, which he attri
buted to the spirit of gambling arising
flora lotteries, and to that only. Such
mischievous pra£Hces m'ght be remedi
ed by laws, but it would be impossible
By P. VR E NE A U : Publijhed Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
T H U R S D A Y, June 21, 1792.
aslotteries continued to receive the Unc
tion or Parliament, and therefore lie
should objedl to the speaker's leaving
the chair."
Mr. Francis said, "he came there to
support his hon. Friend's motion for a
committee of enquiry. The lottery was
undoubtedly a very great evil ; it ex
tended up to the highest, and down to
the lovvelt clals of the people : to that
ufeful clals, whole industry was affect
ed by it, and their morals poilonedand
perverted. It was laid, Mr. Francis
obierved, that gambling was the vice of
the age, but lotteries, he was penuaded,
afforded a greater leduttion than any
other Species of gambling, becaule they
held out, for a trifling risque, great pro
bable advantages, such as the obtainment
of a thousand pounds for so small a ium
as a guinea, and loon in proportion.
If the lottery was only the relource
of the present year, he declared he would
not onpofe it, but it was to be a perpe
tual means of raising money, and as a
permanent plan lie inurt object to it. It
was laid, that it was voluntary,and that
men need not engage in it, uniefs they
chose it. Mr. Francis denied the fatt,
and contended that there was no viola
tion in the cafe. They put temptation
in the way of the middling and lower
class of the people, and as it were,
thereby invited them to do, what they
| otherwise would have no idea of. Gam
« bung, Mr. Francis laid, was the vice of
the higher ranks, and not of the lower
clals, but lotteries brought the vice
home to their doors, and tempted them
to do that, wheh naturally they had no
inclination for. They heard repeated
ly of men being convicted of ielonies
every fcflions at the Old Bailey, and
sentenced to transportation, or death.
Let them enquire into the caulcs ol the
crimes that drew down luch a f ate up
on the unhappy wretches, and they
would find thole of the majority origi
nated in lotteries. Gambling was a
vice, they ail knew, which men of the
molt enlightened minds, men poffelfed
of reason and capablc of reflection could
not refill; and how could they expect
the ignorant and uninformed, to have
the virtue to withfland it, when its
Captivating allurements were held out
to them r" What, he would ask, cauled
the revolution abroad P All manner ol
profligacy, but chiefly gaming, which
was eilablilhed by government, ami
countenanced by the court. Why was
it so countenanced ? For obvious rea
sons : to engage* mens minds, and ab
itraft them from too deeply regarding
the conduit of an arbitrary government.
11l such a government it was policy, but
was the cafe the fame here ? exafctly the
reverse. The court by its pra&ice
(hewed no favour to gaming, but at the
fame time, the legislature encouraged it.'
'■ Mr, W. Smith supported the argu
ment against lotteries, and particularly
urged the milchiefs arising from illegal
insurances. He said a man who took
insurances had opened a shop near his
own house, that he was removed by the
magi Urates, but that he returned, and
contributed to fleece every lervant in
the neighborhood. Mr, Smith Hated
other grounds of objection."
li Mr. Sheridan declared, atradefrnan
in Westminster had allured him that he
had loft more than 401. a vear in bad
debts owing to the lotteiy, which were
incurred by poor persons, whom his
humanity would not let him proceed
againll by law. That gentleman told
him, that odious as the shop tax had
d. . -rvedlv been, he had rather pay 301. a
year [hop tax, than that there fhoukl be
an annual lottery. A fewyears fir.ee, Mr.
Sheridan laid, he had taken pains, to
gether with a person employed by go
vernment, to put a flop to illicit prac
tices in the lottery ; and a pawnbroker,
a man of character and feeling, had
hid observed perfonsproceed, in bring
ing their effects to his (hops, in coriic
quence the lottery. That they were
nut the drunken and idle, but t>f a very
different description, the industrious
and sober, in short, honest hard-work
ing people. They began fir ft with bring
ing their fuperfluities and little orna
ments, then their goods, then their
working tools, then their effe£U, appa
rel- &c. down to the clalps in their
children's shoes. In fliort, the pawn
broker had declared, he was at lait
ashamed of his profefliori, from the
wretchcdnefsit enabledhim to witness."
Mr. Wyndhamj ''argued against lot
teries, and laid, the worthy magistrate
■ had staled that the abuses prattifed this
: year were greater than ever. For his
i pari, Mr. Wyndham laid, he thought
them so great, that no advantage of re
; venue could compenla'e for them.—
■ With regard to lotteries, if the evil that
attended them could be separated trom
• the good to the state that they produced,
io much the better, if not, the belt
■ way would be to abolish them. Mr.
Wyndham laid, that the money they
produced, could not be called clear
gain, becaule in consequence of lotte
ries, many individuals could not pay
their taxes, and for this he did not
want facts to prove it ; it was in the
nature of the thing itfelf. Mr. Wynd
ham added other local arguments against
lotteries in general.''
Mr. Pulteney said, "he had ever con
sidered lotteries as measures to be resort
ed to only in war and in exigencies of
state. The right hon. gentleman, he
observed, had said, that the lottery re
lieved the people from taxes ; but he
would alk, was not the lottery a tax in
which their payment was voluntary ?
It was the nature of all the taxes to be
lo ; if people did not chufc to pay the
taxes they did not confumo the article
taxed. A lottery was the worst fort of
tax, as it injured the morals of the peo
ple."
THE RECRUITING OF THE PRUS
SIAN ARMY,
(Extractedfrom a letter of Baron CLootz,
Jur;nerlji an officer in published
in the Chronique de Paris.)
Good looks, and a lofty ftaturc are
considered in Prulfia as a Icourge from
heaven by the dilconfolate mothers who
follow their forlorn children at a dif
tar.ee. 1 have seen a drove of recruits
"and a drove of oxen enter Berlin by the
lame gute ; nor would I have helitated
10 prefer the fate of the latter. Speedy
death is preferable to a tedious slavery,
to a daily baftniado, to the canine hun
ger of a man half starved, and tothefhi
vering inilsry of a man half clad. De
crepitude alone rcftores him the liberty
of palling the frontier to beg his bread ;
for the eltabliflyment of a handful of in
valids in Prulfia is no better than a pi
tiful mockery. The eld ioldiers beg
ging in the ftrcets of Berlin, are as trou
hlalome as the young monks begging in
tlie streets of Rome. By way of get
ting rid of them, they are sometimes dri
ven out of the country : the govern
ment might as well imitate the conduit
of the Lacedemonians towards the He
lots'. The children are expefed in Chi
na ; in Prulfia the old men.
I watonce pitying a femalepeafant who
had brought a detormed child into the
world, tbir. said jhe . your mother is more to
be pitied than lam if or you would not wear
the uniforms if you. had the good fortune to
be deformed. Thetribunals re-echo with
crimes unknown in other countries. A
mother is accused of having tv.'ifted the
leg of her child, and a father of having
favoured the flight of his lon. The re
cruiters traffic with maternal tenderness,
as pricfts do with popular superstition.
A rich farmer gives a hundredcrowns
to save his Benjamin, but the next year
unless a new ransom make him quit
his hold. Milery, dcfolation, ml'ult
and impunity, arc the nurferics of the
Prussian army. The recruiting officers
are worle than vultures and tygcrs.
They plague, plunder, rob, and ravish,
and in concert with the tax gatherers,
lay hold upon men and things in the
name ofaking fond of war or of parade.
The very pedestrian travellers are {nap
ped up without mercy, if of a tolera
ble I was witncl's myfelf to the
taking of two handsome capuchin friars
who were sent to carry the muiket at
Potsdam in the firft battallion of guards.
The famous General Wolferfdorf, no
torious for his horrible manner of re
cruiting, dragged a poor parl'on from
his vicarage, and sent him gagged and
fettered in a cart to Magdeburg, where
he exchanged his black cassock for a
bluejacket. Hunger and third are em
ployed to obtain the of the
wretched men thus kidnapped ; picklcd
herrings are given them, and it is not
till they have ligned the contrast of
their servitude that they are permitted
to drink a glass of water.
The Prullian garrisons are ravaged by
suicide, and the greater number of the
soldiers who die upon the fcaffold have
committed a crime on purpose to die in
a chrijlian like way. Themilitary school
of Berlin being fituatcd on the Spree, I
used to fee from my window the deacl
bodies of soldiers, who had put an end
| to their existence, floating in the river.
One evening we heard a discharge of
muiketry upon the place of arms, and
what was it but twelve or fifteen
veterans, who having made together the
only good meal thevhad tailed in their
lives, ihot themselves within the hear
ing of the king. I will not enter into
the lamentable detail of the internal re
gulation of the barracks, or of the ex
ternal regulations of the parade and e
volutions. Ennui and grief prey upon
those prisoners, who keep the whole
nation prisoners. Defertipn would be
general among them, if a war broke
out with any power but Austria, the
name of which is abhorred by the
Prussians. As manyot the soldiers earn
their livelihood by peaceful occupati
ons they detest war, and set the exam
ple of detection to those whole discon
tent has not discontinued, since the day,
that the fatal number of feet and inches,
that caufcs their misfortune, wastraced
with chalk upon their breads. In short
a Chridian in Algiers, or a negro in the
Weft Indies, has less to undergo than <t
Prussian soldier.
T O N D O N, April 16—28.
Much has been laid of the affidance
to be afforded, and the troops to be em
ployed by the king of Sardinia, in fa
vour of the French emigrants. The
following answer to a recjuiiition of the
French minider on this fubjett will
show that the king of Sardinia means
not to intermeddle in French affairs :—
" 1 HAT the king ot Sardinia receiv
ed with great plealure the assurances
given him by the king, of good neigh
borhood between the two nations.
" He flatters himfelf that he has giv
en fufficient proofsof hisdefire of peace,
to expect a return of the fame from
France,
" Although the king of Sardinia ought
not to think it necellary to disavow ru
mours falfely circulated, lie declares
nevertheless, that his troops are much
below their peace edabllfhment,
'• The king equally declares, that it
is fr.!;e. that he has sent a train of ar
tillery into Savoy ; the ordinary num
ber el infantry :n garrison there hava
not all the cannon which they ought
to have.
Finally, the king of Sardinia pro
tests, that he has never tolerated affem-
of emigrants in his dates, and
as to the enrollments pretended to be
made by theirs nothing can be mora
falfe.
Numb. 68.u A"ter thefef.*aa!c and candid declr'ati
-6 is. his Sardinian Majelty having ordered
nothing liiirinui to the peace and good
neighbourhood which h? deliivs to maintain
'v.tii the F -ens!! nation entreats the king to
i e convinced of hi'dentiments; lie demands
a reciprocity of peace on the part OfTVance
»ad vv.i: con '.tier bay t'afpicion, of a rapture
ms 3i !njury."
April 24.— The j*ing interests and oppo
site views of the I'u rooean potentates have
lor fo.ne time indicated but to:> ftronglv
that an appeal to arm ; cOnid alone decide
th?ir d Terences. Whether England will
be obliged to take an ftidive part in th#* dif
pntei. a fliort tTnie will determine ; an ar
mament, however, will be no more than a
roeifure of precaution —Aboard of admi
ralty i, to be h Id at their olfice this after
noon ; it will not be (tlrprizihg if their
meeting ttrrns ont to be for the purpose of
prefr-warrants.
The of the death of tne k« ig
<>." Sweii'"i inspired the mod lively eino
rion of g-ief in the French Emigrant prin
ces. M. de Co-ide and M. d'Artois Wsre
finable t > Aij'orefs their tears, at so (to
tiie'ii) d r, .ftro'n an event.
I 1 the Ho'ife of Comhlohi on IV.day April
r-j, the committee of the w hole House di
vided upon the proportion for prohibiting
the African finve trade after the fiift day
Jau.uarv 17)6 —ayes 151 —-noes, i^a —ma-
joritv iq lor abolishing the trade after
January 1, 179 G.
Decree of the National Alfesnbly declaring
war e.gainft the king oi Hungary and Bo
hemia.
Friday, April The Aflembly
delibefat'iVr o 1 the fOrdial proportion of
■the iiintf, to ihdering tiiat the court of Vi
enna, iu eo'itetrtpt of treaties, has continu
ed to open protection to French rebels ;
that it has excited and formed a concert
with several powers o! Europe againjt the
independence and security of the French
nation ;
That Franc;? I. ICing of Hungary and
Bnhemia, has, by his notes of the iS th of
March and 17th of April lalt, refilled to
renounce this concert :
Tint notwith'banding the p-opofition
made to h'm by the note 1 1 of March,
3-91, to reduce, on both fides, to a peace
e(tabli:hment the troops on the frontiers,
he has continued and encreafed the holtile
p-eoarations :
That h? has formally infringed the fove
l-eignty of th a French nation, by declaring
that he would fapport the pretentions of
the Cerman Princes, polieilionaries in
Fran e, to whom the French nation have
continued to offer indemnifications:
That he has attempted to divide the
French citizens, and to arm them again!!
one another, by holding out support to the
malcontents in the concert of powers ;
covidering in ftle, that the reful'al of an
an Twer to the 1 all dispatches of the king oi
the Frenrii, leave" no longer any hope to ob
tain. by means of amicab-e negotiation, the
j-edrefs of these different grievances, and a
mounts to a declaration of war, it decree,
that there exists a cafe of urgency.
The Natio ia 1 aifembly declares, that the
French nation, faithful to the principles
1 oufecrated bv the conllitution, not to un
dertake any war with the view of making
•c >!) y.te>'b, aid never to employ its force
ngnin'l the liberty of any people; only take
up arms in defence «-f their liberty and
tlieir independence : th t the war, into
which they are compelled to enter, is not
n war of nation again'.t nation, but the ' nit
defence of a free people against the unjust
nnprel'ion of a Monarch: that the French
■Vrdl never confound their brothers with
real enemies; the: they will neglect no
thing to foften the rigors of war; to pre
serve their property, and to prevent it
from fuilaiiling any injury, and to bring
flovrn upon the her.:! of those alone, who
len-rne themselves against liberty, all th,
evil- i-ifeparable from war.
That it adopts all those foreigner- V, ho
ab'urine the cause of its enemies, {hali joiv
its llnnd'ard and consecrate their efforts tt
tiie defence of freedom ; that it will evei
favour, b T all means'in its power, their efta
M-hmeat in France.
P?! i berating on the funnel proportion
of the king, and after having decreed th<
cafe of urgency, the Aifembly decree-, war
against the Kng of Hungary aa d Boliem'a.
Th' Kind's nfaier.
'I fnali take the decree of the National As
femb'.v into deep confideratiou- It involve
the raoQ important interest of the nation
Next day the minister ofjulticc informer
the Ufeinbly that the king had sanctioned
thi» decree.
( 1 the session of the 2?d infant, several
f.na'.l funis having been offered to the ailen:-
bly towards defraying tiie expellees of the
war, Mr. Jetu'v rose and moved, that each
member fliould dei ote to tiie service ofthe'i
country a third of the indemnification which
they fhon'd receive in the months of May,
June ami July. This facrifice, he fa d.
would produce a fnni of 409,";o livres;
for each deputy. Tnis Mr. objec
ted to ; but the whole assembly rose in
uneoufly, and unanimoufiy supported
tiie n. ition of Mr. Jeury, which was con
verted into a decree.
It appears that the aiTaffination of the king
of Sweden was wholly a plan of the nobili
. Tv, in revenge for the degradation of their
b"dr" 7 lie asa if. i T r c'u room (or An
keritroom) h"d only two confidential ac
complices. The three had cast lots for 'he
honour of killing the kmsr. which fell to
Aiiiitriiroorii. i'he two others were to
second the attempt. One of them gave the
l.gna'i, by linking the king on the ihonicler
by way cf fale:.\ and while the king turn
ed his head, Ankerltroom discharged th«
airgon.
Hn InMif.ef the Tone hs.s ifijed tavern
idmonkory letters, addrelied to the Frencl
nation, particularly tile clergy. He there
in reprobates the conduct of the Bihop o
Autu i, and others, as fo'elv productive o
:he l'dufiP between the two 11 •;io:i —Hi
ilio exhorts all b 'hops, vicar., i-ic. wh<
nve taken the civic oath to retract it oi
3r before the 20th of July, 1702,' tlndei
pain of excommunication, &c. —'Bn.tvnful
nen !
The head-, of the king of SwecTsri 5 wil
are as follow.—His R. Highnef the TDuke
Charles to be guardian of the voungking,
wd regent during his minority. —2. Not
in the mean time, to create, convocate.
md nominate any counsellors of the Em
pire —not to couvocnte the ftatcs of the Em
pire— not to dismiss the king' -at tend -
ants—the lvnke regent i e dered to loo'i
out acorfost for the young king when he
attains hi ; 17th year.- —P. She is to be
of royal, or at leafl princely blood, &c.
We are happy to nffure the public thai
reports of the press-warrants being aboui
to be i filled, are totally void of foundation.
(April 28)
The Newfoundland fifiiing trade seem:
•apidly on the decline, and its total down
fall is anticipated in three years, urtlefs car
ried on under an entire different iyfteni
from what it i at present. A motion \va;
made in the Ho'.ife of Commons on th<
16th inft. ft r thre appointment of a coni
m'ttee for enquiring into the {late of tht
Newfoundland trade, &c.
The Dutch settlements in the eaf.err
parts Of the world are in a deplorable itate
At the Cape of Good Hone, a revolt if
hourly looked for. At Batavia where the
fame spirit of difmection prevailed, a pef
tile.ntial fever swept off :6co of tneii
troops, and a whole Cllinefe colony, of more
than roto persons, had likcwiie been tie
flroyed by it.
The city of Louvairt (Atifirian Nether
lands) is prepamng for tiic reception o
twelve thousand troops —a meeting of the
ilatesof Brabant has been held at Brnfiels;
the (tales have consented to the fublidie:
they had hitherto refufed—an invalion o'
the French was exp J ted daily a: Binffels :
a severe- edict had been iil'ued by the gov
ernment against all who should manifefl
design; of infurrcftion —The inhabitants
however, more than ever inclined to revolt
from the Austrian government and throw
themselves into the arms of France —it
was thought the number of troops in tht
Austrian Netherlands 110 way adequate tc
protefl: the country from being conquered
by France, if once invaded ; efpecialh
when the difatfeftion of the populace wa
brought into view.
We are informed from Stockholm, that
the prifoncr Ankerftroom. who afiallinateti
the king of Sweden, expired in the midltoi
tortures, which had been applied to extort
from lfm a confeliion of his accomplices.
He remained firm till the last moment, noi
:ould any discovery be made by means oi
lis answers, as he per/ifted in aifirming that
le alone was guilty. It has been reported.
3ut without truth, that in persons were
irrefted : the whole number of prisoners
it present amounts only to 17.
The march of the German troops to
ward the Rhine, is row 2 matter of certain
ly but only in afiiiall number. The troop,
leftined for Brifgau do not exceed fix
thousand five hundred men, and those for
Brabant 4?CO.
The innovations In tie government cf
Poland have given so much offence to that
•indent enemy of liberty, the Fniprefsof
Ruliia, that (he ha openly erprefled her in
tentions of defeating the new organization
of that kingdom. In consequence of this
declaration the Tolilh government has
tin-light proper to forma conliderable ar
my. which will be distributed along the
frontiers of Knilia.
Hollaqd is dividing into two strong par
tie ; one for the French emigrants, at The
he°.d of which is the Stadtholder ; the
other, the patriots, le.vfng towards the
French revolution —the notes of the Bank
r»f Xmllerdam are gradually falling into
tlifcredit, owing to a discovery that the
real lectinty of solid coin and bullion ha.
x-en expended by the court for Jrc rt fur
—The Stadtholder'j court is directly
o necied with the leaders of the French
'.nt'-rcvolntionills, and aiiiits them with
noncy and ot. cr a ! ds—fo true is it tin t
iriftocracy and deipotifm always go hand
n I,and against the 1 bertles of the people.
The following, from a Glasgow paper,
is a ftrikiiig iafta ice of the force of religi
on? education by rctc.—A man who cabed
rtimfelf John Boyd was lately brought be
fore the magistrates of Fd nburgh His
practice was to go into lioufes and a!k for
lodgings, where ne feldorn remained above
one Right, as tiie next morning he rose ear
iv, and carried away every article he could
■ret off with: Bed cJoaths composed the
princ'prl part of his booty. A great quan
tity of blankets, ihects, &c» were found in
fthrtufe An the ilMhi read. ".-Jure
he them Being ai"! Ed by the
fudge, from " hat h'oufe ho had iroleu cer
tain articles, he replied', !:u'. 'y < d ~ot Jlea!]
them, be only toohtlicm areey ; andaelded, " he |
had not afl'.ed *iie bieuing of God upon
them, and therefore they were not likely
•:o pfofper in his band. The magiitraces
sentenced him to receive 50 lathe*.
An inltance has lately occurred of a pe' - -
son having been cured of a cancer in the
lower lip, bv ti> fo'iowinp; application :
The patient had undergone the operation
of the knife under an eminent surgeon ;
but the complaint returning soon after, a
friend advised hini to apply leeches, ami he
followed this advice. The three fi.'fl
which were applied, aftdr fucking a con!id
erable time, dropped oil" dead—a few days
•ifter. three more were applied : these died
like the former, of the cancerous poison.
after remaining on some time. In lets than
a week he applied three more, which after
fucking some time, dropped oli alive. This
wrought a perfect cure.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Mr. Printer,
IN the New Annu?.l Regifler fori??!--,
under the hra'd of Britiih and Foreign
History, there is an article winch I think,
as it particularly concerns the people of
America, might to be published for their
info'matiQni Von will therefore oblige
ft-veral ofvollr readers.by giving it a place
in the Nai'onal Gazette, for which pur
pose I fend voii fomp extracts enclosed.
AFTER tf."? \Vfifer of this article * had
;one over a description of the lituation of
America at the close of the war—the vari
ous attempts made by to create
revenue to pay oft the intereit cf their pub
lic debt—the profpec'ts from trade and agri
culture—the removal of Congress from
Philadelphia in June IS3, &C. he then pro
ceeds in the following words :
" Great praise was undoubtedly due to
the moderate and peaceable spirit with
wliich the officers and foidiers of the army
feparared .1 the close of the year 1783. In
capable of fatisfying their just demands, the
Hates had every thing to fear from that pe
remptory and untemporizing spirit, which
i! r.fually the fruit of a conficlerable series
of military Cervices. But though they me
rited n:uch commendation, by thus giving
to the character of citizens a decisive pre
ponderance over the character of soldiers,
there was however, one measure in which
they were engaged. \i hich was more cpief
tionable and ambiguous in its nature. This
wa ■ the institution of the celebrated oibf.s
or Tfik Cincinnati. The increment of
their aflbciation is dated at Annapolis, on
the 21ft day of November 1 The per
'on* of whom the order was to be mn jio
'ed, were the onicer who had served in the
army during the war. The order was
made hereditary to them and their tldrfi mile
iojltrity: and in failure of fneh polteritv.
111 the collateral branches, who might
worthy ofbecoming itsfupportirs and members.
Other citizens of American States. v. ere
made capable of being received as tennrorv
memers, but for their lives on' v. and with
an exprefi provision, that their number in
i'nch Irate (liould not exceed the proportion
of one icfoar of the officer s . S: their defend
ants.f The society were to. hold genera!
meetings in their respective ftatej, and
meetings of particular d.itri&s. The flare
meetings were to take pi co once in ;;
months, and the general meetings at leaf
once in three year.-. The profefied objeih
;>f tile society were, to yield, an ineelfant
attention to preserve inviolate tk*ri-l:ts cm'
liberties cf hvman nature ; to display an una'tera
'■It determination to promote and c/i: rifi between tk'
• efji ethve fates, a spirit of union and national ho
lor-, r.d to render permanent, by o.bh
jfabfantial benfeence th: cord a '■ ■JJebficnJu'jiJl
mg among the ojiccrs. For this purpose, each
member was to fubferibe one month of hi::
pay to the genera: treasury : and rlixs fund
was to "be increased by donations whicii
mght be made, rv well by 'persons not of
the society as by its immol ate members.
The interest of tirs money only wa? to be
expended in a>ts of charity. 'five society
was to be by rv nrd'r cf potd,
fvfrrded by a deep blue-ribbon, c "'yd with white
1,1; i mat;col of ike vmcn of Amcrico. and Fraoce§.
Ihe officer;-; qf the 'French r.rmy serving in
America were piade honorary members.
General Washington so earl}' as the month
of October 1783 fub.'cribes himfelf P.iesi
uen t t oj the order (/Cincinnati.
Never perhaps was a foundation more
;leep and ief< equivocal laic! for a new or
der in the fl'te, than n the Intlrunjcnt we
|iave been describing. Thisffcrsatedbody
extended its exidence over every part of
America, afluiued early the peculiar and
* Thefamous Britijk orotor%0 rotor % Rink', stlc i .lt
'0 have h-:cv the author of this article —hew dfaint
Were his opinions cf nobility then, to thojc he his
'ately avowed :n his flowery pamphut againjt the
French revolution !
+ Here the society model hem[vives the only judg
es of who waiftt to !)e ennobled.
Qucre, Have not the militia cjjicers been If \
out ?
§ How changed, iscrur offtfli on for ov Y great and
rtoricvs allies, cf late; when ef >en the H —d of the
FV• —r D —p —t disdains the Union cockade..
t-e lienor,
ed :'omc of i', pnntipal otiieeis to be U.'itiraf
oridcoU':;<<l rcc< a ltd .n ,'ihp. adopted the
m >:t known and infallible source of power
in tiie creation, ot a fund, always to be in
cr vling, and ntv'rt.o be ah'
It can scarcely tie imagined that » *V
so deep, to d\n.o:, oitdJodiftrjled, could be form
ed at hazard, and nor poceed !>cm the wrrt -
tun cf a /unffcitMS moid, thct perfe£UyunderJloou
tilt rjfifishe tons about to produce. It is altoniih
inß that the I'nired States of Americr.
where ad honorary titles were prohibited,
where they had forbidden thc ,r fub]ects t(
accept o the compliment Of knigiithooc!
from a foreign Hate, that such an inititu
tiiin Should have palled i:\Silence.
It is wonderful that many American of
licers. and particularly the il'iultrious Walh
ington, whole integrity was unqucftiona
i)!e, and vvhofe chaiafleriStic quality had.
?ver been wariness and caution (hculdhave
oeen deceived in a bulinefs offo extrenv
magnitude. His conduct in this affair, i
)erJiaps the oniy blot, that can be fixed on
he character ot this venerable hero : it i r
inpoli;ble however woolly to excuipat
51111 [f. If he understood the tendency of
iiis conduci. iiis idea* of liberty mult have
>een less pure and elevated than they have
jeen represented to be ; and if he ruShed ir.->
:o the men"tire blindfold, he muSt Hill be
.oil'.ideteil its wanting in fotne degree, tH\?
jenetration and presence of mind lo necef
ary to complete his character.
I he perion to whom the honor was def
ined or awakening and enlightening his
ountrynien upon this important fub'eet.
ivas /iio axu.s Buiike, one of the chief juf
:ices of the itate of South-Carolina. - A
pamphlet v. as publiflied by this gentleman
oon after the original introduction of- the
jrder, in which he illustrated all the ili
:ot>'equences that might be expeited to re
ult from it. If the Americans had beef
:old and supine in the firit instance. 't was
However easy to aw aken their" public spirit
nto patriotic jeaioufv. >,0 foor.erwas the
dsa. of danger Started, than the impression
Hew with tiie utmost rapidity through the
whole continent. Karly in the year 1-84.
the province-: of Pennsylvania and Mafla
chuletp. declared the injiittition ten-n/lifiakle
tndtheir *;/•:' on to difcoitntenarceit. Tile pro
vince ot Khode-Ifland even went to tii
length of annullirg the privileges of ail the sub
;cds oj itsJ'ate, u-kejhovid be Timbers of thisjocie
'V, and declaring torm incapable oj holding on
.jjicir w<!ni'sv-irvxnt. In consequence <>
tne alarm that was taken, the Cincinnati, i
their Sirit general I;:est!ng wi veiled at PI.:
ladelphia, 011 the 3d oi .1 ay 1784, though
proper to new-mode! the institution o
[heir Society. They prof-Jf-d to withdrav
the claim <" Hereditary Honor, to dil
laim all interference with political sub
jefls, and 10 ;»!sce their funds under the Sir
mediate cognizance of the several legifla
tures through the medium of a gener
thrrver. Then hefitatcd not to relinquif
very thing of their new conftitut.on, ex
-ept their persona! friendships, of whic
:hey could not be diverted, and the a fts- <
>ene ; icence, which it was their intentio
Ihould :lef rom them. With these pro
'eiiions however, they retained their fund
:ae;r general meetings, and their tiiiow
it remains for the wisdom of the legifla
:tires to decide, or for experience to dc
inonUrate how far these ctrcumltauc
seep alive the danger that was original!
"•pprehended."'
f i?v.s end- my quotation. But had th
K'rfou who wrote the above article for tl
New Annual Register,whether it wasKurk
: lie orator, or bamuel Jolmfon the gre:
;iant of ail literature, for both of thol
gentlemen were concerned in the book—
iy, had they then known, that so footl aftc
the revolution as the year 1789 —we ha
our Americannewfpapers flnfl'ed with tith
[itch as. Molt Honorable, to Senators ar
their wives—and Right Honorable to Rt
prefentatives and their wivep- —-would it
iiouelt Sail. Johnfoii have ltared, and
: urope laughed at our foolifh v.-ickednef.
But when it was afterwards attempted 1
ntroduce His Imperial Majcjly, His Highnei
Hit IllvJlricuJneJ's, See. &c. kc. in an offici
.vay. by a party in one branch of the lie
United States government—is it not ftran
:!iat some able writer did not take up t'
übject iit a Serious manner and alarm tl
jeople, 11 onr hoiieit Burke did when
wrote concerning the Cincinnati?
I hope, Mr. Printer, that this hint w
serve as an incitement to Stimulate eith
that gentleman or some other to take tl
matter into contemplation, and not fuf.
us plain American republicans to be ove
whelmed by thoi'e monarchical writers (
Davila, Ulc. who are armed with larj
wigs, long pens, ami caitiffprinters, reai
to di!feni;:;ate their poifotied doftrin
throughout this biefll-d continent—S'or bit
fed we nnifl be, unlei those artful aril 1-
crats ihoiiid pi ove fuccefsful in their fat
Icliemcs. W. T.
|| HV/rf a pi' 'ot tin- to iler bad net Lrrn b
t'jr acqun iteu u .th the faSs. Our venerable H
zoos nr'. an angel—lint a good wan mtol.-t eafil)
;!ec::icdby a a;7:~ing attorny, xohoje
was an i.cr.ejl 0 man Baton-—chemin couve:
'■ Here aga 11 the writer was ignorant of
fa 9s. Tiiry ever ret otjvijhed those here(■
tary fohnncs--nll thry did was, t > recom .cnd to
flat", fxicties, who never adopted it, Jo that it
rtx-.»h Jlaiu que, as it cngtxallf dejtgncd*P I-11LAD E L ? K I A.
ju»- r-
Oi. Monday lad v*\n receive! r '™ t.ori
\clon»the model of the new Theatre to be
erected o»i the fo:mdation lateiy laid in
o'iefnut Street, in thi •' v.
It is not den'ed, and id*rr not. I? (km'a, taat
jrrjat abuses have taken place in Tome o
Our national affairs; that pernicious c..0~-
trineshave been maintained concerning the
tendency of public debts and perpetual tax
es, that members of Connie'- have been
deeply concerned in fpeculatirr; and •'>b-
Wm'.i lit their own meaftirH, and combin
ing with brokers and other' to gnti ano
trick their UninformedconJli':r i :ts out o tlv.iT
tfrificafes Thcfe are facts, and in a man
ner co life Hied af-d A'l the world
is crying ontapjamit them i a ic; m . it.i-
Oandinp; that is the c?fe s there is audacity
enough in some to call thole v':o have
been the niei:r< of roufmg t!!e pn'olic ;»tlen
tiori to these foas of (edition andl e
nem'es to the Government. is it .edition
to ferret out iniquity and expo,e it to
and pnn'.Onnent r —lf it be, it a fee*. it:ioii
in favour of virtue and the jieop'e, and that
a friend of both to j.'iory in. Is it
enmi'y to the government to watch its pro
ceedings and endeavour to pnrve it o it"
error* and Its vices ?—lf it i~. th?rt may
the government never Want ftich enetn.e • ;
and may it ever be without a forz cf friends
ivh°,'.n order to cloak the. faults of the
government* and thrbw dust in the eye. of
the people, calumniate tr.ith, and endea
vour to cry down reformation.
On Monday la.ft vns held a meeting of tee
citizens of New-York at the city Mali, ro delib
erate on the cOnduM of the majority of h * enn
vafler of votes tor Governor.— Several refolnti
ons were adopted at tliis meeting the lad or
which is as follow s :
Pefolved, That it rnrnefllv recommended
to the independent eleftois several coun
ties of this flat 0 , to enter into refolujions expref
fiv* of their sense upon this very h.'terefhng oc-
Cafion ; and dial they be requeOed to unite with
tb»* eleftorsin this city arid county* in an applica
tion to the at their next meeting, for
a red re ft of the injury which has been don? to
the frights of the neon!'*.
The firft reception of the Eng'ifti Dofbdr
Willi's by the Quee» of Portugal seems to
have bordered on the ladicrons.—Upon be
ing told that the English mac!-doctor had
com? to her relief, and was then in the an
ti-chamber, (he gave orders for his admis
sion —Upon his being introduced, not lik
ing hismein and appearance (i e instantly
f«j earned out aloud, and <hrunk her head
downbetween h<rfShoulders, ns in a
I>le flight—the doclor, not in the leaii ciif
concertcd, advanced toward her. and
screamed aloud in the fame manner— this
iomtimidat.d t!ie Queen that /lie thought
proper to submit to iiir prescriptions. winch
are said to have already had a favourable
effect.
A letter received bv a fettlerin Greene county
from Kentucky, mention?, that fix hundred In
dians had broke into that settlement ; tfinr a par
ty of them: had burnt the town of Frankfort, and
killed about fifty white per fens.
From Scrttch ?nd papers it appears,
that fcVcra; of the poems of Offian have been
lately aJTtjmed as the around-work of diamatic
performance* 1 , and acted on the Oar„•* r.f Glaf
ro'v, Edinburgh, London, &c. Ccmala, Oscar
and Malvtna, and such other of these pieces as
have been already represented, a r e f .id ?o have
met v/'.th the mod brilliant furcef . The po
rms of QlTian (a handf:)me .ed::ior of wh'ch has
l:e*n late ly printed hv Mr. Thomas tang, of this
£ity) pretend not to htiloucai relation ; they rc
prefent the fabled ages of Seotland, where fancy
has only touched, and hifiory has never reached.
1 helc events, however, whether real or ima-
are represented to us in a fuMimity of
and inn cry perfectly confonnntro the
ideas oi hero'.fm aHieg upon the generous, un
io>,i.-ared manners of the human species.—
I' oei these charatki iflics of Ofiian. it is natu
i<:l to suppose that his id.-as and images may
plc.de nolefs in t)>e dramatic than in the origi
nal epic drefc ; the language of nature being al
ways the fame, and alv. ays lure to plcafe. whe»e
tafle lias r.ot beeri pievioufly vitiated. — It-may
be pTcpcr to add rhat w iie. we dwell with
plealure, in the Scotch papers, uron the dra
rr.atic !evivification of Offian, we feci hurt with
oi>ferving, perhaps in the very next column,
advertisements notifving that 4 The manager
ofthe '1 heatres Roya! in Edinburgh and G!af
f,ov, wifhcs to make a compolition w h his
creditots at ios. in the pound, anl that if not
Pureed to, the theatre mnjlbrfet upforfale;—
which it seems, from another account, has al
ii adv been the fate of die theatre at Aberdeen.
Few people have a proper sense of the
importance of the success ofthe French re
volution to the welfare and happiness of
America. Should a counter-revolution be
ultimately eifedled in France, the advo
cates of hereditary government and titu
lar dignities here may again be embolden
ed to come forward with their pernicious
doOrines— Should the French revolution
eventually fucced, a moderate degree of
vigilance on the part of the people of this
country will preserve a pure republican sys
tem, and crush those plans of ambition
which have been long hatching for us on
the hot-bed of European depravity.
Toe rc;il fr!en«*v cu* HirT-»ifariu r ei ami
ronftinq trade (fcould be careful (iavS a corref
ni)11(!.- nr. w!i') I-; a trwn'l ro both) Icil ♦ *>»-».' omHi
matreis too far. At present both thofc branches
are t'oiving rapidly, oC much to the advantage o'
(be cbmoiercial a:vl ntanu a&Uring pirts of trie
union', as is demonflrated by the '.jlancc
;'.t the ixfiorts and imports of the states refpec
livdv, It is bad poticv to risque or injme th-s
ivofpeft bv grasping at too much. Foreign mcr
ha-;ts and m aniifatluiers in the fontbern states
"ill for 3 lon.'; time be our rivals. H iretcjfore
liev have enjoyed a preference. They Hill d<j
-l a very great degree. To Saiti upon ilu'm,
::c (hoiild conciliate the confidence and kindnt Is
>f our southern brethren ; not confirm their
ir e ij oiC''s bv friewing a de'.re to force our am
ies upon them whether thev will or no. and,
IS thev will fuppofc, at a price umealonablv
heightened at their expcnce. In this point ol
•iew, the polirv of pulhirig some 'ate reguU
ioris as fir as thev arc carried, may well be
meflioned. A pahrv gain on shoes or nails may
ie a had bargain even to our {hoe-makers and
l.nlers for an in humour that may afTeft the
Rowing voluntary ronfump'.ion of Our fupplics'.
!n trade and manufafturcsa great deal dependson
Sit, which in its beginning depends on opinion
id inclination. Ihe intercom ie ot traffic be
v-*n the slates his also been juOly viewed as a
oilrce of haimony and a tie of intereO among
hem. But it is clear that contrary cffeQs mav
■nine, if regulations be forced on the southern
la'es bv ant of leoillative majorities To hind
av interest, it mufl b J mutual, and believed to
ae so. To promote harmony, the intercoutfe
itu ! l be founded both in free will and in gcoc*
mi!
The (itiiation of the labouring clafi of people
nF.uiooe has often been a fuhjeft of commise
ration ro the pbilanthropifls in t is country. Ca
harine Philips, an eminent Quaker preacher
'he's • known in the United StJ' 's by the name
as Catharine Paytc-ti under which name fne tra
velled through Ametica, as a preacher, a
bout fo r tv veais and flnce that time ha*
beea in visiting ever)' part of G. Br tain)
aives the following account of the condition o(
ihe poor, and others, iri England.—" Hou e
keepi'vr, to the rich and middling clafles o( peo
ple. is upward; of a third more expcnfive than
it w;i< before ihe vear 1756- As to poor la
bourer, and working manufacturers, they can
ipend but their li'tle all ; bur ho'v miTerable dn
tnanv of them, who have families, live and ap
pear now, to what they did formerly 1 The pri
ce offevtral ai fi.les of (.loathing, as well n s
the various articles of food, are much advanced :
hut are the poor labourers' and artificers' wage
advanced proportionablv ? In many ir.llanccs it
is so notorioully the reverse that the necefTarie*
of life cannot now be purchased by many good
economics of this class. Bead (in iome coun
ties barley o:' oat bread) and potatoes, are near
ly all a great, number of the poor have to fuhfi '
unon, and many have not enourh of that low
fare to fatisfv their hunger-) whi HI their patch
ed and tattered cloathing, andalmod entire m
kednefs of many, especially children, abundant
ly demonflrate the extreme poverty of a very
Valuable part of the inhabitants of a nation glory,
ingin its ptofperity and riches."
Capt. James Wells, of D?'a*.Var? state
put a period to his existence a few days a
go. He was in the recruiting service a:ic
had railed his company, but having tranf
grefTed the limits of his allowance, was in
volved in debt on the company's account,
to the amount of about two hundred dol
lars. He received orders to repair to t're
rendezvous at Pittlburg ; but, owing to
this embr.r rafirnent. was detained. He
applied, ftitecl his cafe, and re ;uefted re
lief- His application proved unftiecefful-
In the presence of his lieutenant lie wrote
aletter, ft,iting the cause o. the ast he wa
about to commit, sealed it. directed it tc
the lieutenant* stepped into a a adjoining
room and (hot himfelf; the lieutenant
hearing the report of the piltol, run in and
ound him lifelcfs.
" Various mal-prnftice'. 'f.yz a X. York
paper) have been committed in the county
;v Otfego, with a deiign to influence the
elections. The facts are iilnply these, that
nndue influence towards the weak, threat?
to wards the debtor, and impositions upon
the ignorant, have been grossly praftif.-d by
certain leading characters ia that county,
to gratify private resentment, arid, if polli
ble, to anfvver compiereiy the purpefe ol
part/. From the whole tenor of the con
duct o: the characters referred to, in the
county of Otfego, and which is proved by
numerous affidavits, the public are left to
determine whether the votes of that county
have not met the fate they so justly merited.
. he honest electors there, it is expected,
will submit with cheerfulnefs to the loss or
their fnffrages, so that the wicked machi
nations of a few deligning men might be
'rust rated, and the republican inrereft of
the llate relieved fromimpending ruin."
*4* A lengthy string of quotations from
the National Gazette appears in the Uni
ted States Gazette of yesterday, with ani
madveriions—' Whatever truth or vvhat
ever falfehood there may be in any, or all,
ofthofe remarks, the author of one of them
idvances more than he ought to, when
lie afierts the National Gazette is Jiippcrtec
by a party : unlef3 by a party he means a ve
ry refpecla'ole number of the anti-ariftocra
rical and anti-monarchical people of the
United States; whom we shall be proud to
serve at all time-:, as far as is confident with
the line of a printers duty.— Horn fcitquinei
y pcrfr
The fu'vocrtLi" "or 'he ban-k a
their calculations before they m «hr their
boalts. The attention of the public h:v
b-r-eTt called with a fort of triump! to the
loan of 500,000 dollars at 5 per ceil?- as it
it were an evidence rivet the charter to t:i"
bank were a pro'.irabic bargain trt the pco
pie, or as if it were a compenfatidn for the
iacriftce; 'hat have been nw'e to it- it
what is the loan to conltft of ? of paper
w.'rch coft-the bank nothing. How wilt
it be repaMln gold an.l liiver ; wiiil t the
paper Will be from returning 0.1 the
bank, by being absorbed into "he public
< .hi'iineh of circulation. The public there
lore, befulei tile intereit pay gold and si!-
vet* for piper, for which the bank pays no
thing ■ They keep the paper arioa: so • the
benefit of thebe.nk, be a itpulation which
has no reciprocity. They fend or keep out
of the count; -- .', the gold and filrer wh'ch
rhe paper usurps the p'ace of. And they
are over and above called upon to praise
tile utility and generolity df an institution
■vhich is enriching itfelf at their expence.--
Ler the truth be honestly fpoken-. The ca
pitals in the bank are more than fifty per rent.
in the market above the funis fubferibed.
An annual dividend is expeited of nine or ten
per cent. This is an enormous profit. Whence
is it to proceed ? From the grant of the go
vernment ? At wiiofe expellee ? At the exptnet
of the people. Did the fubferibers earn such
a profit by their services ? Many of them
were enemies or aliens to our country
Where they entitled to it by their lolfes ?
Molt of them had previoully gained
800 per cent, on their capitals. Did they
purchase the charter with their money ?
I'hey paid nothing for it. Were they bound
by the conditions of the charter to any fu
ture equivalent ? They are as free to de
mand toper cent, as j pe: cent, if the ex
igencies of the public Or the liberality of t't
government(hould furnifh the opportunity.
If the conOimtnn then had authorized the
mcafure, the people had a rig ht to more than has
Seen got for them. They hid a 1 i°ht to 'he
worth ot the charter. They had a right to some
thing equivalent or nearly so, to 50 per cent on
the private (lock of the tank. They had a right
to a valuable consideration for thefour millions ot
dollars thus wantonly thiOwn by Congress intr
the pocrets of individuals including member: of
their own body, to whom the people owedneithet
debt nc; 1 ivor. In this light th" people begin
now to lee the tranfatfon : and their indignation
will rile in proportion as they unrlerfland it.
Until the bank then fnall make rtditution ot
its unearned, nnparchaled, and unmerited
monopoly, or shall otherwise indemnify the
public, it may boafl of its utility to itfelf; but
let it (pare the mockery of boafiirig its utility
to the public. Of two things indeed the
bank has a right to boat}. It may boall its good
fortune in beinJ tnade the favorite objett of th;
public la'geties: and it may boall of its addref:
111 offering a mor>::ntary and apparent aid to the
puhhe, in order to divert the attention of the
people from its immoderate and permanent profits.
Weie there no danger of placing these in too con-
I'nicuotis a view, it might well have afforded tl-c
Ida- at 4 per cent, or 3 pet cent, or without any
tate reft; and fill! have smiled in its sleeve at
tbe boon it has obtained. What is the interef,
of half a m/llicn for a few months, tothofe wnc
have iicnvcA frenn the gov: nnrnt. a lear value of
millions on th» eight tniiiion of (lock sub
scribed to lhe bank ?
PI\.OrOSALS have been publiflied in this
city, by Mr. John Parker, for printing a Frcnch
Newspaper—l he utility of (uch a publication is
evident—as it will not only be the means of
infonnatiotl to forci ners who do notunderfland
tile F.ughill tongue, but alio a rreat affiflance to
t 'ofe who are (ludving the French language.
Subfcriptlons are received by Mr. Dobfon, in
Second-street.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
JT may be inferred, from a publication in
JL the National Gn-ette of the iSth of June,
that the definition of the Excise officer"
lign, in Gernmntown, had taken place in an
open manner,from the hand of foul? kilbwn
persons; and the citizens of the United
States may be led to ftippofe that their go
vernment is so inattentive, or so feeble,
'that so great a breach of the law has been
permittc dto takep ace near the feat of the
government without notice *. Itwill be pro
per therefore, thit the true state of the
ai'iair be publiflied in the fame Gazettes
which have, or may pubhfli the paper allu
ded to.
The col'eitor of the revenue for the
counties of Philadelphia, Bucks and Mont
gomery resides in the county of Bucks; and
for the accommodation of the distillers in
the county of Philadelphia* he eftabiifhed an
office of iufpeftion in Germantown. 'as the
principal village in the county of Philadel
phia. 7he person who kept it for him had
placed a sign over his door, inferibed ac
cording to law " Office of Infpeftion."
This sign, or board, after it had been up
some days, was secretly taken down in the
mght tir.ie, by some person or persons at that
time and note mknown. The officer was duly,
and immediately examined, by. the govern
ment upon the fubjeft, with a view to pro
secute the person or persons who had com
mitted the offence ; but from the secret
mf.nner In which it had been done, under
cover of the night, the names of the per
sons could not be discovered through the
officer, or by any other means,
THO MA 3 rAI X£>
11 hiving been positively affirmed, that
the author of the Rights of Man was not
arretted at a lare meeting : the publication
of the following undeniable particular?,
e*i>o"e at once the independence of the phi -
lofopher, and the effrontery of his disciples.
" At the London Tavern, about jialf after
five o'clock, on Friday 1' Ir, the 13th of
April 1772. Thomas Paine, Esq. was arrett
ed, at the fait of Mr. Mark Gregory and
itbers, by Wild, the Bailiff. Paine was im
liediately carried without his hat, in a
roach to the King's Head Spunging house.
n Wbod-ftreet, nearly opposite to the Old
Compter, where he arrived about 6 o'clock,
\bout an hour afterwards, lie was bailed
iy Mr. Joseph Johnfort. bookseller, in St.
faui's Churchyard, and Mr. George Wil
de, bookseller, in Paternoster-Row."
[Lo-.id. Paper.]
The fubfeqiient fanciful epitaph has ap
peared in several Englilh newspapers : Pof
ib!y, notwithstanding, it may be new to
nanv of our readers.—lt was occasioned
5v the death of Capt. Charl.es Cltrke.
jiie of the fucceifors of the celebrated
"ooke in circumnavigating the globe.—
N. B. Capt. Gierke diet? on {hip board,
ivhile on his fourth circumnavigatory voy
ige.
THOUGH in the Styx the brave Charles
Gierke is hurl'd
He put a girdle three times round the
world,
But as he try'd the fourth, and proudly
fail'd
Death back'd his topsails, and thus rudely
hail'd.
The Rejolution, -X 110 !—Charles tiirn'd his
ears.
And said, Death hails, lel's give eld bones three
cheers ;
Mrjfmates. farewell, ccmplctetiie voyage- —I'm ready-,
Charon, put off.Jleer fmell—Jieady' hoys, [L ady I
■X- The name of Capt. Gierke's fiiip.
LONDON.
THE KING OF SWEDEN.
AH the accour.ts from Sweden prove
that the attempted assassination of the king
is not the fruit of any new doflrines, as has
been ignorantly, or malevolently insinuat
ed, but the natural conference of pnffions,
which, in all ages, have stimulated men to
crimes, r.nd burnt as fiercely in the bosom
of the iioble as of the peaunt —ambition
and revenge.
He had made hirfifelf obnoxious to hi<r
nobility, by wresting from them the whole
power of the government, and concentrat
ing it in the crown. The}' rrfented his
usurpation ; by the rigour with which he
maintained it against all their plots at home
and intrigues abroad, their hatred became
implacable ; and the fame order of men.,
who are endeavouring to plunge France in
blood for the recovery of their privileges,
conspired in Sweden the murder of their
Sovereign.
No man who regards the principles of
jtiftice or freedom, will be the advocate of
Guftavus. His contest with the noblef#
was not for the people, but for himfelf-
They were courted, and in some degree
favoured, as the only means of temporary
support ; but If we look to the eagerness
with which he courted fublidies from fo
reign powers, and the anxious diligence
with which he laboured to increase his ar
my. we must conclude, that his ultimate
obieot was to involve nobles, citizens, and
peasants in one common defpotifim
As little will any man of generous or
manly feeling vindicate the plotagain't his
life. The foul crime of afiaffination fill*
every untainted mind with horror, bccaufe
it deitroys tile very principle Of mutual
confidence, without which society is not a
(late of security but of fear. But let it not
be charged on any deftrines, that an en
lightened age, or philosophical disquisitions
on the rights of man, have promulgated.
It is the miserable remnant of feudal bar
barism, and superstitious ignorance; of
times in which reason was weak and paf
iion strong, and any means of revenging ail
injury or reclaiming a right, where thought
to be justified by the end.
Never were more pailis taken in every
part of Europe to suppress the events flow
ng from the ebullition of the public mind
than at this moment. The ftriftelt eyeis held
over the press in every despotic {late, and
though France opens to all Europe, by its
centrical lituation, a free channel of com
munication, yet the violation of the post in
every adjacent country keeps from the pub
lic eye all knowledge of the ferment which
rages in the bosom of every kingdom more
or less.
This may have its influence. By pre
venting the circulation of knowledge, it
may make In en tame and paffivc, but this
can only be for a time. The circumstance
of a free press, in a country so centrically
fitliated as France, and in a language fr>
generally read, cannot long exist in vain.
Men who think Will read—and all the arts
of the most watchful government, will not
long prevent the introduction of the jour
nals, sacred to freedom, into every
in Europe.N E JV - r 0 R k.
THE beautiful situation of that city, and the
city itfelf, is now displayed to more advan
tage than ever, to the view of" him that approach
es it from the fouthweftward, by the removal of
the old Fort George*. Instead of that clumsy for
trefs, we now fee an elegant building (unfortu
nately one story too low) deilined for the residence
of their governors, with its appendages of gar
dens, out-houfes, ike.—The ground hjs been le
velled considerably below the foundation of tiic oid
lort, and a solid frame bulk-head of square h.wn
timber, filled with ftanc, is cairied many fathoms
into the Hudson, affording a fine spacious gra
velly walk on the margin of that noble r.\er, for
the refrefhment of the citizens. This walk,
when planted with trees, will be the mod elegant
in America, and affording a prospeCt scarcely in
ferior to any in Eurepe, and exceeded only, and
that ?n no great degree, by the views in and about
the bay of Naples, in Italy.
The removal of a number of mean fabric?,
wooden fheds,foldiers' barracks, &c. from the vi
cinity ofthis spot, and the substitution of elegant
buildings, will give this extremity of the iiland all
the advantages, in point of appearance, that it so
well deserves,—An elegant flreet is now extended
along the Hudson to the northern extremity of the
city ; which fireet will no doubt be a highly com
mercial one when piers and basons are formed for
the protection of vefleis in the ruder seasons of tl.e
year.
* Th? following stanzas on this subjeCt, were
written-when the demolition of Fort George was
iuft in contemplation by the legillaturc.
1. AS giants once, in hopes to rife,
Heap'd up their mountain? to the fi.'ies j
With Pelion plac'd on Olfa, (trove
1 o reach the immortal throne of Jove ;
2. So here the handsof ancient days
•I heir fortrefs from the earth did raise,
On whose proud heights, proud men to please,
1 hey mounted guns and planted trees.
3* Those trees to lofty stature grown—
All is not right, they must come down,
Nor longer waste their wonted [hade
Where Colden slept, or < Tryon ftray'd. J
4. Let him be fad that plac'd them there,—
We shall a youthful race prepare j
Another grove ill ai i bloom, we trust,
When this lies prollrate in the dust.
5. Where Dutchmen once, in ages past,
Huge walls and ramparts round them cast,
New fabrics rais'd, on new design,
Gay Jireeti and palaces, fliall shine.
To.foreign kings no more a Have
(Disgrace to Freedom's pafling wave)
No flags we rear, we feign no mirth,
Nor prize the day that gave them birth*
7. While time degrades Palmyra low,
Augusta lifts her lofty brow—
While Euiope falls to wars a prey
Her monarchs here, aflume no sway.
S. Another GEORGE"}" /hall here refiJe,
While Hudson s bald, unfetter'd tide
Well pleas'd to fee this chief so nigh,
With livelier aspeCt pafles by.
9. Along his margin, fre/h and clean,
Ere long shall belles and beaus be seen,
Through moon-light walks, delighted stray,
To view the illands and the bay.
10. Of evening dews no more afraid,
Reclining in some favorite shade,
Each nymph, in rapture with her trees,
Shall sigh to quit the western breeze.
11. To barren hills far southward fhov'd,
These blackguard guns /hail be remov'd,
No longer heie a vain expense,
Where time has prov'd them no defence.—
12. Advance, bright days ! make hade to crown
With such fair scenes this hi.nor'd town,
Where Freedom finds the charter clear,
And plants her /cat of Commerce here.
J British governors before the Revolution.
*}■ His excellency George Clinton.
REMARKS on the ADDITIONAL DUTIES
9 n IMPORTS.
[ Continued from our lojl and concluded. ]
TrIAT the supposition on which this conclu
sion appears to be built is unfounded, is a fa£t
which all those acquainted with foreign markets
can attest. Foreigners, instead of charging higher
prices to those of their correspondents in this coun
try, whose lolid Ity was apprehended tobedubipus,
would withdraw their connexion rather than ha
zard a loss of property bj confiding it to fui'h cha
racters. The British merchants have better me
thods of becoming acquainted with the pecuniary
ability and resources of their commercial friends
here, than the Secretary appears to be apprized of.
They fekCt their men ; and instances are numer
ous which demonstrate their circumfpettion. Ma
ny applications for credit have been, and Hill are
reje&ed ; and it seldom happens that a new ap
plicant can succeed unless supported by a guaran
tee of some house of eiUblifhed refpe&ability and
property. Hence it results, that no reason for
concluding that goods are imported on better
terms than formerly, in consequence of the im
proved (late of the credit of the union, can be sup
posed to exist.
But in considering this fubje<3,y*tf<s7j art of mere
efficacy than theoretical deductions. During the
last four or five months, the manufacturer:, and
merchants of EnglanJ have uniformly apprized
their American correfpondednts, that certain fa
brics have advanced in price veiy considerably;
and the specimens already arrived, verify the in
formation. 1 hey are certainly as dear as at any
per ft nee the peace. This however is not af
ciibed to the decline of our credit, but to thof
un»>irt<een, unaccountable circumstances which
occasionally emerge in the course of events. If
the iajciences were founded, we foould
look for the cause of such a revcife, to the d--
prefiion ef our credit j but iincc this ij by nO
means the proper source to which the a Iter at; Ml
js imputable, we may warrantably decide that the
Bnclufion, and the intelligence on which it is
erected, have been obtained from tome misinform
ed, p-:rhaps 4 inteiefted qua rrer, and therefore falla
cious and undeserving of such credit as tojuftify
official reliance.
Jf this is the cafe, and if the " advantages en
loyed under the federal government" are a perpetu
al accumulation of new burdens—lf those burdens
mud inevitably be submitted to j we may regret
in silence our ready acquiescence, and acknowledg
ed agency in giving exiltence to the new conitituii
un j but pray let us be permitted to groan and la
ment, without the mortifying circumltance of be
ing officially told we are more happy in proportion
as our opprcfiions arc encieafed.
Sincc the publication of the fecre'ary's report
on the lubjedt of manufactures, it has not been
difficult to anticipate what measure* would be pro
posed ; and it now appears thai—as a spirit of
manufacturing prevails at this time in a greater de
gree than it has done at any antecedent period, an
increase or duties as far as it ihall tend to second
and aid this spirit, will serve to promote efTentiaJ.
ly the industry, the wealth, the firength, the inde
pendence, and the fubftanrial prosperity of the
country." Hence, it fecms, in order to gi-.e a
fpec'ious colouring to measures direclly repugnant
to deliberate opinions formerly avowed. opprciftve
rates of duty mult be recurred to, and the fubfla;.-
tiai revenues of commerce faciificed to the vision
f»ry phantom of manufactures. Was the proiix,
laboured report on that subjeCt, originallv intend -
ed t© prepare the public mind for a ready recep
tion of the piopofed augmentation of duty on im
ports? It evidently has this afped j but, howevei
well written that performance may be, it can ne
ver effect impofiibilitiee, nor reconcile us to mea
lures incontrovertibly wrong.
From what comer of the union the fecietar\
has been favored with such undoubted intelligence
respeCting this manufaCturing spirit, as jultifict
him in officially announcing its extreme preva
lence, is a mvilery ro thousands. We know that
experiments have been made in various parts oi
our country to ereCt and support them j with what
luccefs let the prelent lituation of the greater
part declare. Strenuous efforts were exerted to
laile the one attempted in the city of New-York;
but, notwithstanding every endeavour of the repu
table characters who patronized and fuppcrted its
infancy, hao it not been gradually declining, and
now almost extinCt ? The fame lefuit may be
preaiCted with reijeCt to that proposed to be eita
biifhfcd in Jersey. The notoriouily embarrassed
situation of its pecuniary funds as far as they have
been colleCled, and of the man [Col. D.] with
wUom the project oircnfibly originated, aie ftronj,
indications that the period of its ultimate difi'o
lution is not very remote. We cannot therefoie
calculate with laf'ety on any of' thel'e faiiacious ex
periments, nor could the Secretary have rested his
assertion on such grounds j h<s views must have
been direded to the circumscribed efforts of 00-
meftic or private manufa&ures, which however,
except in a few inUances, have advanced little bc
jond the point they had attained fevcralyeais ago.
Now, to bring into view the idea of facrificing an
cftablifhed revenue, or at least of ouprefiinj a
ufeful class of men, in order to cheriih projetis,
which with all the indirect aid of government
will be ultimately regulated by other circumlcan
ces, discovers a wiliingnefs to fcize any plausible
reason for doing that which no reason can julti
fy on the principles of a dilcreet and magnani
mous policy.
Ihe addition of 2 1-2 per cent to the prefenl
50 percent, duty 011 the great mals of no:
imported, is prooofed 3s a temporary expeu ent tt
defray the expences of $he Indian war j and it n
operate only while any part of the charges in
tuned by that war remains unpaid. This tuovi
lion has a dangerous tendency.
Without adverting to all the pofliMe methodi
ivhich future rninilters may invei.t, and comply ins
legillatures Unction,to dilhpaio the public pioL-ei*
ty,it will be no hardy a/fertion if wepiefumc, thai
alwiougir the iiuflilities in which wc are now in
volved, Ihould speedily terminate j yet the antici
pations whfch mult Le recurred to, in uider tc
uilcharge the iocelTaiit calls from that ({uatter, ju-
Iti/y a belief that there will remain a conlideraolc
deb. charitable on the department of war, which,
with .he huit pay of deranged officers, &c. now
and hereafter to be engaged in those hollilitie;,
will terve as a plausible pretext continuing ti,J
high duties j and when thelf objecls are n arl
accompiiflied, other modes of absorbing the public
.reafure, luch as the elfabliihment and iu,,l oi
r navy, ..-ill be brought into view, declared eliVil
:ial to our national existence and rel'peaability.
ind ado; -i. liy these means our burdens w.t; b t
perpetuated, and the hollow promises of office ea
lily evaded.
Were the lefources < f the United States re!>r!d!ct
:o thu species us revenue, we should let down in
jafiive silence, and lament ihe necellity of fubrnit
ing to measures which the exigence of ourpoii
:ical situation rendered indiipcnfible. But 1
his the true state of the matter ? 'i'he fecreur*
las indeed proposed three aitemativea, two o,
yvhich are conceived ineligible and the o.her re
tommended. If no other sources of supply au
[angibie but those exhibited in the report, die
powers of congrifs are much more limited than
people generally imagine. If we turn our
lion to tne present situation of the tracer, indivi
dually, we fnali fee them in a great meafOre reliev
ed of dueCt taxes, by the ailumption of their debts.
If Congrels, instead cf attempting additional du
ties, fhjuld impole a light tax on landed proper
ty, it would constitute a productive revenue, with
jut being opprellive j and Ly rendering it perma
nent, create a finking fund for redeeming the
heavy load of our public debt.
1 am well aware that such an expedient would
by no means accord with the prevailing fcnii
ments of many honest men : but surely, of two
necessary evils it is advifeab e to adopt' thecal';
hazardous: and I presume it will be found, on
due invefligation.that a 1 ght land tax would be iefs
cppreirive and more productive, than a furthei
increase of the duties on imports*
N, York, March J7.
BOOK S,
Printed ana field by
M AT H E W CAR EY,
No. ii 8, Market-Street, PiniadMJ.ii.
I American Museum, from its ccnimcr.ccmrr.t
in 'January 1757, to December i~oi, in ten vols.
Price, neatly bound and lettetid, jlxteen debars.
This 11Ijrk, wbub is now eot.duJJed on an im
proved plan, containing the best pieces publifhe.l for
and againfi the proceedings will bt
found to contain at leaji as g > eat a variety cf poli
tical, arr icu.tural, and mijceilaneous fj]a\■:, as a:; V
put lifted in Amcrica. Perhaps in ,'j one w. >'(
are Jo many van able documents re 1 • chug the / ;//,-
ry of this count)y, collided together. His txcel
lency the Ptefidcnt of the United States, bus de
clared of it, that " a more ufeful literary plan
rias never been undertaken in America, nor one
more deserving of public encouragement." 'ibt
übjeription is two dollars and a half per annum.
Gentlerren in the country who ntrijb to bt fupphse,
with this work, are. rcqueficd to give comvufilon tt
friends in the city to fubjeribe jor and receive it.
2. Ladies' Pocket Library—containing :—Alij:
Ai re's EjJ'ays } Gregory's Legacy ; Lad-; Pen
nington's advice j Mat cbionejs cf Lumber7's ad
vice j Swft's letter to a ntwiy married lady :
Mrs. Cbapcne on command of temper 5 Morels fa
bles for the ladies Price 6/6.
3. Smith's Hiltory of New-York, fern itsfirfi
jcttlemcnt to the year 1732. Flo which is annexed,
adejeription of the country, with a fkort account
of the inhabitants, their religious and politico> fiate.
ar.d the conjlitution of the courts of jujt.ee—Prici
a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements at Mo.al Science, by James Beat
tie, L.L.n. profefjor of mural pbilojcpby ar.d log'u
in the Marjcbal College, Aberdeen — Price three
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Criti.al Re
viewers (vol. 69. p. 628) fay : " We I ave jeer
nothing on tbeje jubjeßs more pluin, more pejpitu
ous, or more gtnera ly ufeful."
5. Beauties of Poetry, British and American,
containingfeleft productions of the mofi eminent JJri
and American poets. Price four fifths of a do/.
6. Blair's Sermons, containing the whole of the
tbree volumes of the British edition, in two. P/ict
two dollars.
7. Neckar's Treatise on the importance of reli
gious opinions* Price four fifths of a d' liar.
8. Examination of the objervations of Lord Shef
field' s on American Commcrce. Price, or. very fine
taper, five eighths of a dollar.
9. C 1 be Confiitutions of the jtveral United States.
wtth the federal Confutation, t5 c. Price fivt
eigb'bs of a dollar.
10 M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition in
\imo. Price three eighths of a dollar.
11. American Jest Boole, in two parts, with
two very neat engravings. Price bound, thrct
fifths of a dollar.
12. Garden of the Soul, by Bifbe>p Cha'cnor.
Price, bound plain, ha f a dollar, in calf and let
tred tbree quartos of a dollat, plain I-2del.
13. The Douoy Tratjlation of the vulgate Bi
ble in quarto. Price, e.egantly bound and
$cjz—plain, fx. debars.
Said Carey biis for jale, a large effort went oj
looks, Euicp jv as well as American editions,
which he will djpcjc (f on the mofi reajonable terms,
Leumry gentlemen, who favor him with commands,
may depend upon being J applied in the mcji fat i: fac
tory manner. A iberal allowance to jucb as pur
cbcji ejuar.t .tics for p-üblic libraries, or to jell again,
Ivlay 17. 6m. id w.
A FARM FOR SALE.
T be fold cheap for cafi:, a Farm fit:/a ted on tht
Banks, ar.d on the north fidt oj the river Rati
tan in the fiate cf New ■ Je>jey ; eight miles from tht
-■ ty oj New-Brunjwic, anil one from the town oj
Bound Brook, containing 191 aces, .<nd 40 acre,
abcut .1 mile djtant apportioned to it for weed land.
this farm has lately been cnSicd a neat ane\
..n-jciiicnt hci'jt ?.'& by 34 feet neatly finijfjid.
hurt on ce bar the dimerjloris oj the House, wiii
a kitchen for. ;?g awing 24 ry 18 feet completed ;
50 a. res rj it isci-ag nuadow renders this place tru
ly -aaluable ; the healthy airy and pleajant fuuation
make, it an agreeable jeut fur a gentleman • tb ;
■meadow ar.d fertility of the foii, an objetf for ill.
farmer, its being fur rounded by the mcji wealthy
andcp.i.i.n: jarmgrs in toe fate, a very eliviblt
jt and Jor •inc. "foe rule to and from Brt/njzvic
on either fide of th: river, is delightful ; for the
uiicc a pp\ '.<j the can or of ;he National G<;ze:te.
6w j aw.
This day is puWjhed,
And to be fold at No. 54, S. Second-ftrcet,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL,
And BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
Nt>. 147. Market-llreet,
[Pi ice ten fhMings, nec.t/y bound]
The New Art of Cookery,
According to 1 he present practice ;
Beiug'a complete ijruide to ail Housekeepers,
on a plan entirely new—
Confuting of th.rty,eight Chapters.
—•Containing—
T3 directions for marketing, and truf
£ fmg of poultry j The making loups and
oioths ; Dri.!];; - all lores of <1111 j Sauces loreve-
GCCdfion Lioii. 11 and roasting j Baking, ttroil
'ng anJ ; and hashes } Maoe dith-i
of every (oj t j and fricafees j Directions
or dieiiing all Ijris oj roots und vegetables \ Ali
oils c>i aumiets and egys j Puddings, pies, tarti,
See-, Pancakes and Cheefetakes Sc Cuft
>rdi i Blancmange, jellies, and fvllabubs j
ioos lor the sick j Preserving, l»rjps, aiid con
icrves j Diying and candying j AJlfurlsof cakes j
Hogs puddings, faufage£,&cj Potting, and little
old dishes j fhc art of carving ; Collarin?, sal
ting, and sousing ; Pickling j To keep garden
vegetables, &c j Made Vviutsj Coruiai Wacersj
Brewing; Englilh and French bread, £■:<:
Ey RiCHARD years Cook
at the Globe-Tavern, rleet-ftreec, the white-Hart
Tavern, Hal'oorn, dow a: the Temple Cvfhe
houfe, Lsndon.
to rHe rußti c.
Ip'' -i - SukJ.r:bcr has it in contemplation Joan f
A ' 1 '" c " <•>' p't'Jsnt bvjtwjs—wrv/ owing ox
, u,d a ojrjidcrablt quantity of japerjine Jccond and
< i.itic\ioibs t together with a \>u> iety of other arti
in bis way, pnpofet to fell them ai the fuliuWi
reduced prices- VIZ.
Leji Superfine navy blue. 345,
Ditto. J,:to. Scarlet 36*.
(■ ..men coloursjuperfine 11s.
Eiajiic Jfripes as.
London buff and white c&ffimers Ic/ 6.
Dit. jy colour.d . ' 5 1,
as. do* 1 ?/6.
Striped toitenett i.js.
R.:t:neit 3s.
Striped Nankeens 'JA'
si -variety of waijicoatfhapes priportionablj Liu f
t an.y buttons and trimmings do.
Lo: con bft Jnk hofe y from 22J6 to 2s.s.
'J be aicvt go. Js ba-ve been tnojlly imported from
or.t of tor sirs Mercantile hot/fes in London 9 and
are oj an equal quality to any imported into Ameri
ca ; they will be Jold per jmaller quantity,
as may bcjl juit thepurcbajers j by. th"publics mofl
bumble Jcrvant, 'JOHN S HEP PIE HD.
No. 3 South Faurtb-Jlreet.
iC/" Any per fin disposed to purchaie the wb >!e
of the above ito«k, mjy alio have on rcafonable
icrms present dwelling house, together wirli
u>e ffcofe, a more eligible f.tualion lot bulTTisTs '\ i
the tailor's line is not to be found in this city.
The advantage of this buiinefs being so well esta
blished by the proprietor wiJi be very gfear,
from well known radts, needs no conamcn:,
A leale of lix vtars may be had of the house.
May 14, zaw. tf,
CHESTER TOWN £? BALTIMORE
STAG E S.
THE Ea(iern-Slu»re Stage, by way of Chef
frtown to Baltimore, darts regulatl) front
james Thon.pfon**, Indian Qiuen, Fourth-ctreet t
Philadelphia, every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday, mornings, precisely 7 o'ciock, and
on the lame mornings at 4 o'cli>c!c, Sijm Mr.
Grant's in ).>?iti;itore. Tb* cultivation of ihs
counrry, ar.u yooowefs of :hs roads, together
•vilh tiie attention that ihali be paid by the pio
prietors, will, it is hoped, be a fufneient induce-,
meat lor a prelerencc being given to this route.
JAMES I H'OMl SON,
ROBERT HODGSON,
N. E. Light \Va£go/is hr h.ia by jamea,
Thompson, ac the Indian Queen.
PROPOSALS
For Ptinting by Subfcripticn,
PUBLIC VE PORTS
FROM THE
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
OVT H E
Government of the United States
CONG °R y E S S,
Commenting with the present Government, and end
ing with the clefz of the Stjfion of May 1792.
'I HIS work is intended to be printed in one
volume octavo, efiimated to contain between five
and fix hundred pages, and will be delivered to
lubfcribers in beards atOne Dollar and a half.
A complete colle&ion of the Reports .into a
convenient and portable volume has been fug
gelled to the publilhers by several Members of
Congrels and other gentlemen, and they are now
determined to pioceed on with the work, provi
ded a competent number of lubfcribers appear
to patronize the undertaking.
Subscriptions are received by CHILDS and
SWAINE, the publilhers, No- 209, Maikrt
llreet, Philadelphia, >md by the principal Book
iellers in the United States.
May 24.
C IUJS DAY ARE.PUBLISHED,
[la -—Price f<j,
T n E
L A W S of the United States,
P.illiii at tht;
First Scfiion of tin Sccond Congrcfi.
PUBLISHED ET yIUTUORIJT.
To which aie adJed the Ratification! of the
Amendaieuts to the Conflnution, by the several
Slates; the Anniflice between theUni-.
ted States and Gicat-Britain ; and the Treaty of
Peace and Fiieydfh.p frith the Chetokees, which,
with thole in the other otiavo volume completes
all the exiling 'treaties.
Philadelphia, printedby CHILDS
Printer.i of the Law of the United States, and
JoUl by tinix, at then office. No. 209, Atari,t
"treet ; a!jO by the principal Booh fellers in ths
dt >:
1 he Laws are sewed i|i blue paper, ati 4
are intended to be bound up with ihofe of the
next fefuon, lo as to make one volume, cpm
prifing all the Laws pa.Ted by the Second Con-
when a complete Index will be added for
both feflions.
1 he L A W S of the
Three Se.Tions of the Fird Congress,
With a complete Index, in one volume octa. J,
mav be had as above.
Philadelphia, May 17th, T7Q2.
I'or fate at this Office, Sermons by
the Rev d Dr. William Linn, of N. York.
Price sfysfy i-a.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS AND SWAINE,
AT TH£IR OFFICE, NO. 2C9, HICH-iTRtET
hZAR FIFTH-JTREIT,
PHILADELPHIA*