Vol, I.
■Continuation of the French 1 ,AIV• < relattv
to FATSNTS.
LAW
Refpeaing ti.< Rules on the Property o
Author* of Inventions and Difcoveriu
in every woik of genius. (
Given at Paris, May 25,
J.ovis by the grace of God, and, by the cow
*JHI ! the fine, "I
French, to all present and to come ; ( '
ing; ,
The National Aflembly has decreed, and
we will and order what follows
Dechkh of the National. AJembly on Mara'
2<jth, 3 \jt. April V h > aml Ma y
' 79 1 *
Rules for the execution of the law of tin
7th January 171;!, on property of au
thors of invention# and dilcoverie# in
every work of ginius.
RECORD I.
Article ifl. TN conformity to the thre«
J[ articles of the law ol
the 7th January 1791, rel'pedting new dfif
coveriea and invention# in every work oi
genius.
There (hall he delivered, on a simple
petition to the king, and without previous
examination, National Patents, known
under the denomination ol Brevey of In
vention, (of which the models arc annex
ed to this regulation under No. II.) to all
persons who vvifli to execute or cause to
be executed in the kingdom, objedts ol
ingenuity until then unknown.
Article 2(1. There (hall be eftablifheil
at Paris, conformably to the 1 ith article
of the law, under the irifpeftjon and au
thority of the fecretsry of the inner do
, partment, who u ordered to deliver the
laid brevets,
A general depofite, under the name ol
the Directory of brevets of Invention :
when thefc brevets fliall be forwarded,
following the previous formalities, and ac.
cordiiv to the i. -.de hereafter determined.
Article yL The dirtdim" ot breveti
of Invention, fliall dispatch the said bre
vets upon the petition! w'» ich lie (hall le
ceive from the secretary's office of that
department. Thcfe petitions fliall con
tain the name of the petitioner, his propo
fitions and reijuell to the king. It
which fliall lie added, a packet containing
Uic exadt defcriplion ol all the means Ik
proposes to employ. To this packet flial
be joined the drawings, models and piecei
that are judged neccll'ary for the cxplana
tion of the petition : with the signature,&
under the fealofthe petitioner &on thebacl
iof thecoverof the packet,fliall be inferibei
a verbal process, (conformable to the ruli
(No. i.) signed from the secretary's oflic<
!of that department, and by the petitioner
to which fliall be added, a duplicate of th(
laid verbal process, to ellablilh the objcdl
'of the petitioner : the lodging the necefla
,1 y papers, the date of the uepolite, th<
receipt for the duties paid, or the recog
.nizance to pay them according to the price
and in the time which fliall be fixed in the
rule.
Article 4ill. Neither the directors 0
ithe department, nor Ihe directors of tin
W bre vets of inventions, fliall receive any pe
ftitious which (hull contain more than oik
.principal objedt, of which oljcll he Dial
give an exadt account, and not irttroduci
other matter that io not relative thereto.
, Article sth. The directors of the de
partment (hall be obliged to address to the
directors' of brevets of Invention, the
pai ket of tic petitioner, with all the formi
(here above prefcribrd, in the fame week
/that tbe petition (hall have!iren presented,
Article 6tli. At the arrival of the dis
patch from the secretary's office of the
'department, to tl"- dir. t-;r ol brevets i I
Invention, the verbal proofs inferibed at
the 1 >ack of the packet, (hall lie rcgjllered,
the packet fliall be opened and the brevet
fliall be immediately drawn up, alter the
mule • unoxed to the present rule (No 2)
this biewt (hall couuin an exndt copy ol
|~V v. R )•; N !•', AI! : WWr. .• m:..] • \ ,n:.l V. \n< »i>*v : , 'it I 1 A >'"■ /'• '
S A V U , 9 2 *
the defcriptlon, alf<>, of the drawings and
models annexed to the verbal proccls; as
tor whioh, the said brevet shall lie sealed
and sent to the department under the seal
of the directory of brevet* of invention,
whofhallat the lame time direct to all thf
tribunals and departments of the king
iliimXi imai i n from tlu - ' mg, rela
ting to* the brevet oi invention,, in the
form herfc joined (IJJo., J.) and tjiela pro
"la nations (h.d! lie My.ilf. unlit 11; to
their (latin, and shall bethe
lam tribunals and deparynpun
Article Jtlr. The d«fcriptionn,of.the ob
jests, which the Ic^illativc body in 0.1
fei provided for by the llth article of the
law of January '/th, (lull have ordered to
be secret. (hall be opened and inferi
bed by numbers at the diredlory of inven
tion, in a repi Iter particular for pur
pose ; in prefcncc of commiflitners up
pointed for that purpolc, conformably to
the said article of the law. After which
tlielo dcfcriptioiili 111 I In: i'e !• iloil ainl tin
verbal process fliall be drawn up by tin
said commifiioners, the decree which ihal
order it to be kept secret, (hall be writtei
on the back of the packet, that it is a fe
or-t fliall be mcnt:ono.l in the kind's pto
elamatiori, and the packet remain fealee
to the expiration of the brevet, at lead
ivit lion! . " p.. I. onli 1n . > 111 the 1 0 • 111 a
live body for opening it.
Article H//i. The prolonging of bre
/ot3, which will very rarely happen, and
never without the moll powerful realons
■an only ho lion- ' !. 1 an :nM oi tho leipl
ative body, and that can only be for the
length of tinio ilia' tfn-y remain in theii
legislative capacity f lhall be entered in ;
particular regiiter oi the dirfftory of ill
vent ions, which Hiall bo < <11 ;cd to {'ivi
in account of fbis c try to the diilerent
departments and tribunals in the king'
lorn.
Article 'I -'" is >f council, let
ters patent, (lef. uptive 1 aemorials ; all in
Hi u'tioio: • 1 ■ | .i I'< relative to the privi
L'.,,' 1 of ■ mis heretofore allowed ai
q' jejfts of irtgeriui'y, in whatever public
nepoilte thry may be found, Avail be col
lected to other, and bo sent without dclaj
to lit direftoryof brevets for invent io ;
Article 10'-h. The expcnccs of tliii
i-fi iblifliment ilia 1 not be a public charge
but b- defrayed by 1 he money received foi
thc*duticsj and the surplus employed t(
the advantage of the national induflry.
FOR KI G N NEW S.
Utrm'tiiiham, May 22. About fix in tlx
evening the magiilraten read the Jliot Ad
in moil of the principal (Irects, and warn
cdthe inhabitants to keep within the!
refpeftive habitations, an in one houraftet
they had retired, the military would bt
dilpatched to clear all the ilrccts in tin
town.
About nine nt nigh?, the B'nc*« being
reinforced with two troops from Kidder
minder, and one f oin lVomfgrove, aftei
having been infultcd with ft ones and brick
bat a at the door of the Hotel, were dif
patched in every diredlion with 1 xprefs or
ders to clear all the ilreets. 'I hey gal
lopped oil in a moll formidable manner,
cutting and diiving every thing befon
them. They purs .ed the fugitives in full
speed through all the narrow avenues suit!
took many prisoners, whom they lodged
n the dung on, which had been prcviouf-
Iy guarded by a party* of foldieri. Tliii
had the desired effect ; for before ten
o'clock, the ilreets wore pcrfe&ly cleared,
and peace and tranquility prevailed. Ma
ny wi re wounded ; Come had their hcadt
cut open through their halt, and one had
his hand lie rly cut off, but it dots not ap
pear that arty one was killed on the spot.
Some oi the wounded have applied to the
workhouse, and others to the hospital.
Seven houies, it appears, have been
completely gutted, and the principal part
of the furniture destroyed. The windows
C.I many othcis have Kin Inol< c 11, and
(otv.c oilici lgc done to ihciu. All
13 pc: '*e and tranquility at two o'clock
tliis afternoon, and thirteen, who were
taken intt» ctillody lull night, art mow un
dcr examination at the Hotel*
Dublin, May 15. Last Wcdnefdny billi
of indictment ware found by the Quarter
Scfficn Grand fury of the city againtl Jo
seph K.iight, the person who arretted Mr.
Taridy.on Monday tin- 1 vh "I April lal!,
[iinlii.i tinii ii( virtu oi b jiMi.ilamnM'jii
iflued • »r ?[>' rl.< ndin£ • that j'< nil''man,
l>y the Lord -Lieutenant and I'rivy Coun
cil. I'i consequence of this proceeding,
the validity ol a proclamation) Inch at the
duo above mentioned, will he tried in a
lew day* by a jury of UIII !in liilzens.
WediufAay lalt the Attorney General
moved, in'tlv, - court of Kiug'a Bench) on
lie part of tile king, lit the prosecution ol
John Tolef, I fq. his majelly's folicito
; ener.il, that the cL'i'lf of the crown may
jc at lib rty to fend up a bill of indict
inentto 'he present city (fraud jury, againfl
limes Napper Tandy, Eftj for lending a
lialleilgc to the said John Toler, I'.fq.
'lis in jelly's solicitor general) when the
court ili'ed it—be it fit.
Upwards of 7.0001. is mentioned to have
>een already lubfcrihed to support Mr.
i'andy again't the court prosecution, nn<!
(i en.' >!<; him wiili tflcA to carry on hi*
wo j'rofecutions «gainst tli • names an
lexed to L e decree under which he wat
tpprehehTOd in the lirlt inltance, and a
Knight who executed the warrant
jf it in apprehending hint.
London, ylpril 28. *' The cflahlifllCil
ociety for propagating political kn nv
edgff held their lirll meeting at the llcai
r.ivern, Southwark, lalt Tlnttfday, pre
ent 0110 hundred and fifty-four members !
vhep the following among other refulu
ions, were unanimoully agreed to :
" Kefolved, That all goverrihient wai
irigirially delTgned, by Divine Providence
or the exclusive good of the people, not
'or the nggrandi/.emeut of individuals.
" Kefolved, That any government
which is not found toaufwer thd purpbfc,
it defective in principle, pra&icr, or both
ever so uprightly adininiftercd,
" Kefolved, That the repeated exper:
nice of ijiany crnturics, hail evinced the
fallacy of those public writeis and fpe-"k
rre, who have uniformly nflertcd the per
fedtion of the Brit»(h conftitllt ion.
Kel'olved, I hat an accumulation ol
iirinecelmry and appreflive taxes, laid or
l>y an intecefted junto of parliamentary
l>l.:ccmen, who, regardless of hotiell rcprc
iWitat ori, frem only to re pre font them
relve«, is the moll pregnant n.llance ol
stilling corruption) both in the executive
mil legislative powers.
44 ftcfolved) That a miniltry 'hy wild ft
influence public grievances are ililregan!
•d, ami parliaments, by whose corrupt ob
ilinaey and voluntary blindness, fuel
jrk'vances are continued, in direil oppoli
ion to the voice of the pe >ple, are evils ol
the moll alarming nature, and ought to be
"cdrcfled.
" Resolved, That this society feud cir-
Hilar notices, inviting their tellow citi
icent of Great Britain and Ireland, to forni
limilar eftabblhmentu, and co operate with
them in the important mid ncceflary woil<
bf dominating political and conditution
:il knowledge in every part of thcfc king
doms."
Confidential letter from the hin% of the French
to the King oj and oj Ireland.
Sir, —My Brother,
1 fend this letter by Mr, Chauvclin,
whom I have appointed my miniflcr ple
nipotentiary at your mm jelly's court. I
embrace this opportunity to cxpreli; to
yout majefly how fenlible 1 am ol all the
public marks of rfleftion you have given
me. I thank you for not having become
a party to the concert formed by certain
powers againll France, From this I lee
you have formed a better judgmrl't ol .1/
true intercfls, and a r.tore correcH opinion
of the Hate of France. Between our two
countries new connexions ought to take
Mums. 74.
,l ~ .... J 1 ill'' "I :-t
,U. 1111 i| > ulii. Ii 1; r: il .rr I•' miti'li I' * I '''' lll ■
1,..: li. w ti i: y lf l"'-'"i'" *
1,.,, v. l.> i !■..■ ''i'i ■ 11;, -i
, i, i.i tii- is )>• ••' •■•»•»*•{} I'm-;" -
,I, lii 1111:11 Il' , »v.ll l! '111 ■' '
ii/..C!:. Hi .1 : : !:<■ !•.•/•• !».-< M.'tr, 11. '11
, ..i, i vi.-H .. : I ':■■■■ 11 ml
i 1 » I I 111 :.. .;
,|n 11. .t • tin !->"■ • - 1 r '"
, , ;i;;■ \, In u'.i I li.r. ; :.* 1" V' ' 1 ' ' * v ""
••.il v.•. • 11 rK I.;> .. ''' i' I'V .'!!•;; '•>•
i- .hi!'' i ..! li. >• w '' 1 . i •'' l '. ''■tt■ ;.11 -
, , . v. : . I . - I Il ■ I-IIII.';■ ; .1-
~ . ,1. i,.,; • i .... j 1 •i' '' 1 < '• i'. !
'; < ' in
.... !,, -!i | v i(ii \<i 1 I ~ w.iii .' 1 ■ 1:1 I*
- , i ~i .1.., .1. "i ii-
I , 'i ll 1 .■■•■■..<> 11l ' I' l 'y.
~ • : . :•! . v.- < ■ «■'
|, '~.. ... ,i .i I.i.i 1.1 i .' 1 n ..
~1 II v ■!! .''m, !. ' ' •<!> '■> <; ' '
.i-.i •; <! ;• I ' '' 11 "I"'-
i .111 l •.1 -nil. ,
I'm':-.
' h- : --t •<\ ■: to
M . i; . ,j ~ | ".i l»y t !»•*
> ».r I > '■ ' 1 I'""'- v.!...!
.I . I >"!' ii 1.-..,i1l !I I , 1.1 '! HI t'"
mic . 11iIli- ii' , • Il i....'1'l '.I imi'm.-
iii. ,iu ..-<1 .'l/ !""i : '- r
'..1,1 ci ii, tli.it I >..-iv li.i.t 1..'- ii :;i! >!•!■••• I
I. |. 111 ll.cm ,1:1.) : i.c '> 1,1 L< f t!:c ■
iiy ; tli.it M. Dti-i-si V•'• .1 : | j: '
!, 1, 11 ■ i.. 11... i 1.. i■.Hi ci - i.: •i, :.i .Mil';',
11, j. ii.!l i 11, ii .11 ii ! I:. , 11 :1 l>" 1 K
c. I. i. 11 iII t'! y ii.... ■ ill' 1' i. i.cli tl.''
i:j C.I .1 11■ : JII.I Il,'.iii.ij;- 11'.I'll, (!ifw
! i ,1 • | I . ■ ■ i
1 1( 1,1 11;' I 11:! iJ:.. >> > I ■11 .U . I 11
... I,i;> iI. .' ... .. 1 , il ' I'A lie 1 ,,' 1.1
I 1,, i,I .11 .1 1 . I I, 1.... ■ i . ' . '
i■. i I.c i.c.11 !;.: : i.- I--1: ■ 1 ■ i
~ ■.. ,c i ■ i,.i I'lit vi, i i'ii. . . i.
in .i I>. 1111 I' J. >I, .i. 1... I V.l. . lli". I; ■; .:. J
i.. i ii. I i, i! i. .I -' i".. i ■.' '■■ ■' "' ' ! ' . : ' 1
lite: i: 1 i i' '' ' ■>'
'.\m in ii" !r, I, I -.. >. . -
ii..-1,..1..i..." 1 ■'''■■■-
M. ,1, . .mi ' >' 1 ■ ' '' '" ■
, .1, cim I'l'i'limi;;, i -. - ■ 1,1
. 1... ,11 • .in - 1 1', who ii •1 ' 1 - 'I.c' .I 'I
i i,r- , nirnl, \v;i:. i .i ' ' 1 11» .. 1 '
i I ill ,W< 1111t ; ll '.' ' ■ I ''' J' 1 ' ' 1 • /
1 ,1.1 | ' I I i ■ .1 ,
i■; ill-. 1... i; '' ; ■' I" I'"'' 'vi " '•' 1.,1-.i.;
.i.; i t tic'. 11 ■ i l . 11 ■.i l . I '.. 11. ■ 1
I 1 y ~1. | I ' . c r '' ' , I. Ili . 11. .c ■ i ' I
I ~... ... ■- r„1,1 I 11, 'I i.n. ■■■."■ 1
I• n *~! i 111 y.I .ic 1... . ■ '' t! c. c' .1 1 ! 11. ' v. l
li.t.i il.. ■ ! 11l tl.'- I:. ''■ •>':! l '' '
..... p.. i .Hi", I' ■' i' .i . i.' ..I i.
~,»c ( Ml! y 11. .11II' ll'll .1 <1' 1 1.1 'I *1I -V . . 1 1 ■ 1 1 1 1 ■
. ill 'i ii.. mill I..cc;.
\ :11 1 i.i vi ii;; I■'tl ii - .1 -
i 1111 I i.c l. ci;'. "I I'. in....! v , ii.
i. 111, i 111 v ill. III.",I ! i: .! c'.lc !•. "ic-. ■i; 11:
:!i ■ i\iil!ii.ni. Ic.vv t'l.niii i i-i '.vi'ii (l.'i-i
---ll' lucil, S 111 t I UOjCl. t tllC ~l 1 'I' I" .tll'l.V
I lie ~.111111.111,1 (I i'lMHl, V, .1 1 i'ii , , ~'ll 11 *
j.i. lent it t, : I l.i I.i.' P.',.r.:., in i t'>
I, c: 11 <! tl, ' {•,;!(.. lit i HI.:. < I !(:;• : '' '•
I lie inii -till :r|l I (.1 lli ' <■'"111111';'. ' '''■ I J^
.1 (itv.iliy, cuii 'I ii;', "I t'H I' j 11.." i■ >i ;'i,
[~1 ,ii.i;iinlc. 1 1 y Ti. I I'.''" l "i.*
■. li.J .1 ■ c: in.,., r. I'. ivcl in,l in t,»
11' 1.. II It II." . ; TI.HI-II I.'.
M. (.'.I I. W.'.li .1 '■ ..»•.!• :-.c:tt 'if i >1
im ii, vwc: I'.) , ".' '.1 to I'n: iil'.l. II'':
ii!>j'i'l tlf ,i' ")'/>' llUjVi'llH'.i':! V '.1:< l<>
.;ivi.lc tin: a:i.-.it ton "I tin- <"•!■:.>y> ;i'i«l
V.,1 lu i.-nn<"; vl : I 111 ' |.l v.li.'.'l' til.;
i r>,,] m v.! 11,! t '.! j " i:, ' i ■"! i 1 t 1 ■' 1' in 'I ii' I.
Ir,v. 11 li.ll .li.i'.vn ,)!:• "I til'' ;, 'i ■iI -. v/.-l'C
*1) iiU'.'iiii.l.', i'i (iiiirrlo lul J .mi tii'" Mil'''.',
nriili r M I'm,hi.
Tin' null i],; y i-I'nil ■ i.]>ltr [li il »»•: .t
.',l to tlc.' t,'i, .jhi i" l" : 'i,in;; t'> M- ' : ' ,,M «
having oli! (" I 1". ''"ipi 'il ' iv iliy to
I,'til': t'i 1.i11.'. ..lltllil'-' liii'i •<;!:! I'M!, VVI'I-
I clllll I L'l 111 K ill
M. T.ii '.ii 1' IV .1, in icnii'-'i iiii t!i<: r ''in
ill I Ik- iiii,.".i ii j.t on A i>n(V Hi' I.i (..!< I■i ev i..' 1.1Miat evening, dislodged the Auflrians from
all the polls which they occupied be
tween that place and Mons, and arrived on
the 29th within a ihort dillance of that
city.
He then perceived the Austrian army upon
the heights, oc.upying an advantageous po
sition, and appearing more formidable than
had been expected. Nevertheless, M. Bi
roo parted the night between the 29th and
30th, in the pretence of the eneitty, and
took care to inform M. Kochainbeau of
his situation.
His army appeared to be in the beftpofll
ble disposition ; notwithflauding this, he
loon learned that a party of the regiment
de la Keine had retired. He immediately
alone and unaccompanied, 1" et off in pur
luit of, and bro'tthem back to the army,
which he now found in the molt: utmolt a
gitation.
Tliefe fugitives had propagated the news
on their retreat, that the General hitd gone
over to the enemy. The disorder which
thisfalfe intelligence had thrown the troops
into, did not fail to be perceived by the Au
flrians, who immediately commenced the
attack, and M. Biron was forced to retire,
although with bravery and fim«nef» 011 the
p;irt oi the French, who prevented the ene
my from gaining any considerable advan
tage.
M. Biron attempted to regaitr the port
which he hadoccupied the night before at
Quievrain, but this was taken potfeflion of
by the enemy, whom lie found it impossible
for him todiflodge ; he was therefore obli
ged to pulh for V alenciennes.
Our loss as yet has not been alcertained;
that of the enemy-is said to be Hill more
considerable.
The second battallion of the National
guards of Parts, and the Huzzars of Efter
hazi, performed prodigies of courage ;
but the jtli and ftth regiments of dragoons
did not behave with equal Ipirit.
Moll of the baggage, artillery, &c. have
been Caved.
M. le Marchal de Rochambeau, advan
ced with three regiments, to secure the re
treat of the troops.
M. t»ir >n was the lad person who en
tered Valenciennes.
On the vfe of Oxen ivjlead of Iliifet.
(From Catharine Phillips's Travels thro'
England)
I will venture to recommend, as tending
to reduce ihe high prices of provilions, the
more general use ot oxen for tillage, and
even drawing of carriages, rather than so
many liorles. So much has already been
written oti this fubjedt, as to demonltrate
that it would be greatly to the advantage
of farmer ,to till their land with oxen. I
can fee 110 r#afou for their gi\ ing the pre
ference to horles, but that fhey do the
work quicker ; and if they.would try oxen
in the traces, inilead of putting tltem un
tier the yoke, perhaps' that excuse would
fail them. They will go Headier, falier,
and I think, draw a greater burthen ; and
on public road 3 this method must be far
preferable to yoking them. I have seen a
waggon drawn by fix or more oxen in the
traces, and was told, the owner of them
much preferred that method to the yoke ;
that they were employed in carriage as well
as tillage, and that they drew hi* waggon
loaded from his house to Exeter, which is
full 17 miles, and returned again in a day.
Prodigious weights are drawn and even
carried by these annuals in countries where
in thev are generally tiled. And I doubt
not iftarmers and waggon-keepers would
thoroughly try the before mentioned me
thod, but much of our carriage as well as
tillage might be done by oxen, whereby the
prices of beef, tallow, leather, &c. might
be reduced.
It appears to me probable, that an im
provement upon the method used for draw
ing with horses in traces, might be made
for oxen. As much of the strength of the
ox i; fiippofed to lie in it 3 neck, which I
conclude to be the reason for its being fub
jeited to the yoke, might not an additional
collar, peril ips belt made of toarfe linen,
whereto . cprd or light chain hiight be faf
tened, ai clthat again fattened to the carri
age or plough, ill tile manner the Laplan
ders attach their rein-deer to their fledges,
lo tend to keep down the neck of the ox, as
that more strength might be exerted by
that part, thaniniheufual method of draw
ing in the traces only. A•: this is merely
my own coijj*£lure, I only propose it for
consideration. The oxen I saw draw in
the traces, drew fingie ; and J did not ob
serve, nor hear, that their geer was ai*
wife different from that of horses: eviAi
the lhafts were filled by an ox, and all seem
ed to draw with more eal'e, than when
wriggling under the yoke. As the thing
was, to ine, new, l took the mqre particu
iar notice. But if these valuable beasts
yere more generally used, it might be hop
ed that their inhuman drivers would not
be fullered to beat them, as though their
ftelli like that ot the poor horses, was only
tit for the dogs.
When it i" considered that all parts of the
oxen are ufeftri, and divers ot them very
valuable, and how much lei's expence it is
to breed and to feed them than horses, and
that horses when worn out are worth buia
mere trifle, it is admirable that they are
*ottu ore generally used in this money-get
ting nation. Their fttfh, fat, hides, horns,
hoofspiair, yea, their very guts are uied
either for food, cloathing, or by our arti
ficers, Set.
A celebrated French author .(BufTon) fays
of the ox, " lit is the mcfl advantageous of all
doineftics to the farmer ; he is the very
source and support of agriculture. For
merly the ox constituted the wliole riches
of mankind ; and he is Hill the balis.of the
riches of nations, which fubfrft and ftourifh
only in proportion to the cultivation of
their lands, and number of their cattle, for
ill these all real wealth consists : even gold
and (liver, being only fictitious reprefentati
ons,have 110 real value but what is confer
red upon them by the productions of the
earth.
Perhaps some ofour modern farmerß may
be too wife, or too conceited, to receive
these old-fp.fiiioned maxims, and may as re
lu&antly consent to do their bnlinefs with
oxen, as did the Irifli to draw their ploughs
otherwise than by the horses' tails, How
ever that fenfeleft citftoin is now, generally,
in disuse ; and we may also hope that hors
es will be more disused in the course of
time in agricultural employments! f -* nr
rulers have latterly been other wife il.o bu
sy co attend tofuchminutia: for the wel
fare of the nation, or they might think it
worth while to encourage the use of oxen,
by fmull premiums, or other benefits to the
farmers, who are mofl likely to be con
vinced by present intereffs, of the utility
ofany measure proposed. 2fbut the tolls ot
turnpikes were rcmittedthem itmigli t in
duce tome toincreafe their number of these
very strong and ufeful cattle j and I do not
think the turnpikes would fuffer much By
this indulgence, as oxen in. travelling dc
much less damage to the roads than horses.
Certainly, the price of leather is f» high,
that if some measure is not adopted to low
er it, the poor in England may be laid un
der the necefTity of walking barefoot, as
ma n y of their children now do.
Form ofa Passport far Commercial vjfels belonging
to France.
LOUIS, by the grace of flod and the
constitutional law of the state, king of the
F tench, to all thofV to whom these prvfents
(hall come, greeting. The vei%l named
the of tlie burthen of tons,
having been registered in, and belonging to
the port of .and proved to be French
property, we hereby declare that faicl ves
sel is intitled to fail under the National flag
of 1* ranee, tor which purpose we have
granted letters of licence and pafljJort to
commander of said velle', to
depart from the port and harbour of
with instruction- to govern himfelf accord
ing to tlie laws of the kingdom and tf?e mu
rine regulations
We pray and request all fovereign'ppw
ers, friend 1 ; arid allies of the French nation,
and their fubord'nate officers ; we com
mand and enjoin all public functionaries un
der our orders, the commanders of veflel■;
belonging to ihe state, and all others whom
it lliali concern, fafely and freely to fuffer to
pass the laid with his veflel a
lorenamed', without interrupting him, or
fuftering that {ie fliall meet with any trou
l)le, detention, or delay whatever, but 011
the contrary to (hew him every favour, fuc-
Lour, a:id assistance whatever, where itiliill
be necessary.
In witness whereof we have put our sig
nature, and caused the seal of state to be af
li ted to the present paflport, and the fame to
be count .-rfigncd by the minister of the ma
rine.
The Minister of the Marine.
Delivered at the general office of the
Marine, at No. and dispatched.
Department of State, to wit.
THE preceding is a translation of the
:orm of the paflport now given by the gov
ernment of France to the veflel.; of tneir
nation, as officially communicated by their
ininifler plenipotentiary, of which I'll
whom it may concern are desired to take
notice. TH. JEFFERSON,
Secretary of State.
Pliila, July 7, 1792.
Ceorge-Town, Potowmack, July 7.
On the 4th inflant being the anniversary
as American Independence, the artists ar.d
workmen concerned in the erecting the Fe
deral Bridge oyer Rock Creek in this diflrlCt,
met in precession at Mr. Suter's Fountain
Inn, in this city, from wliencc they conduct
ed the commiflioners of the Federal Build
ings, accompanied by Major Ellicott, and a
number of the refpe£taole citizens of this
!'lace, to the eastern hutment of the bridge,
where the ceromony of laying the corner
Irone was performed by the Gentlemen
Commiflioners, in due form, and a dis
course was delivered; dy Mr. William H.
Kerr. Onringthe performance of the ce
-1 einony 15 toasts were drank, and a gun
lired to each repeaively—after which the
company returned in the lame order of pro
ceflon to Mr. Suter's, where the remain
tier of the day was spent as the occasion me
rited. « The 13th toafl was as follows :
May the honoured name os-Washington,
with which this City, is dignified, rver
protest its inhabitants front the iufolent
airs of ariflocracy.
PHILADELPHIA.
July 14, 1792.
We are informed that the directors of
the national manufactures, attended by the
secretary of the treasury, met at the town
of Paterfon (N.J.) on Tuesday last, and
after purchaling the lands from the respec
tive proprietors, fixed upon the exaCt situ
ation of the different mill feats, and other
principal buildings of the establishment.—
InftruCti 011s were given to the conductors
of the different brandies of the manufacto
ry, immediately to remove thither and
complete their machinery, with all conve
nient speed— that decisive and definite ar
rangements took place, respeCting theii
future operations, entirely to the fatisfac
tion of all concerned..
Our correfpondtnt further adds, that the
celebrated architect, Monf. L'Enfant, i- 1
expeCted rhere. on Tuesday or Wednefda)
niixt, for the purpose of laying out the new
town, the form of which is contemplated
to be nearly circular, encompafling a de
lightful plain, intended for a bleachine
ground. Nature has been particularlj
bountiful toijiis spot, a healthy and delight
ful water both for do
neftic and mill purposes, abundance ol
good building stone h to be met with or
the spot, pier, ty of fuel, the river and brook:
around it abound with fifli; provilions art
very cheap, and the country thickly fettled
these advantages, together with its con
tingency to, and easy communitation witl
one of the firft cities in the United States
makes it unquestionably one of the mod
eligible and desirable situations in the work
for the permanent establishment of manu
factories. v
The officers of the regiment of Clermonl
and Clarendon counties in S. Carolina, have
recently •acklrefled Gen. Sumter, one ol
the representatives from that state in Gon
grei's, congratulating him on his return U
his friends and connections, recapitulating
some of his fuccefsful services ik the latt
war, his patriotism, his fortitude, antl ac
tive bravery in the c.iuie of freedom anei
mankind, and concluding with their thank;
for the true republican principles mani
felted by him on the floor of Congress.
The General returned a polite answer, ex
prefling his gratitude for the obliging wel
come they had given him 011 his return tc
his domestic scenes, the agreeable sensa
tions he experienced in meeting the appro
bation of upright and honest ami his
acknowledgements for their favourable
opinion of the general tenor of his con
duct.
The fegiflature of Nrw-I-farnpfhirc have
chosen the hon. Samuel Livermore, Esq.
a senator in the Congress' of the United
States.
15y a late arrival at Salem (M.) intelli
gence is come to hand lliat Ankerftrom
the Swedish regicide, had been executee
according to his sentence. He was public
ly whipped three different times in the
market places ; ignominioufly expofetl ti
view hi the pillory ; his right hand wa:
cut off; and finally he was beheaded
quartered, antl exposed at the commor
place of execution. He gloried ir:
what he had done, to the last'; and evei
in the agonies of death rejoiced that he hat]
rid his country of a tyrant.
Accounts have been publifheel in fevera'
papers of the capture of Tippoo Saib's ca
pital, Seriiignpatani, by the forces under
lord Cornwallis. The whole now appear:
to be a fabrication in London, for jobbing
purposes. Later and authentic inteiligchcc
dates, that-Corn.vallis had taken Tome
small forts, was on hi? mar.ch towards Se
rinjrapatam, and that Tippoo had niade
foilse proportions for peace, which were
not acceded to.
On rupfilay last, Mr. Jay arrived at his
lioufe in New-York, from the northward.
• alutes were fired, 011 this occasion, upon
his entering the city ; and he was escorted
to his own house aniidft the acclamations,
shouts, and plaudits of a number of citizens,
who fit very uneasy under the administra
tion of governor Clinton.
The afTafTination of count Dillon appear
to have been attendetl with every circum
stance of frantic cruelty that could disgrace
the lowest order of favages.--Amidlt the
whole of the infernal scene, he to the last
(lay our accounts) flioweel himfelf firm anil
undaunted, and met death with that serene
fortitude, which evermore characterizes a
man truly great.
Letters from Lifboo state, that such im
mense quantities of wfieat, anel other grain,
have been brought into that port from va
rious quarters, and so promiunj; were their
crops, that all further importation would
be absolutely useless for at least a twelve
month to come.
According to letters from London, there
is every reason to believe that the court
w . ere determined, if pofiible, to hunt
r a ne out England, and that, as the
hrft llep, the prosecution of him for a libel
was in agitation. A secret attempt was
made in May last to set fire to the English
ifoufe of Commons, - which njifcarrieel
through seasonable discovery.
The firft (tone of the new theatre in Nor
-1 oik, Virginia, was laid on the 4th gf July,
instant, by Dr. James Taylcr and Dr. Jame»
Harper, botli of the Freeinafons' Lodge.
Tlie materials for tlie building, it is laid,
are ready ; and the plan fijch as will ren
tier it worthy of a town, which from its
lituation and other natural advantages, bids
pair to become speedily one of the tirlt ca
pitals in the United States.
On the 26th of "June a man named John
Fuller, was executed at Charleston for
attempting to pass a forged note, knowing
the fame to be forged---He declared him
(elf, to the hist, innocent of the crime for
which he was doomed to fuffer.
A leading feature in the character of the
regenerated French has appeared to he af
fection to the F.nglifh ; no longer influen
ced by those unjust prejudices, those mean
jealousies, which formerly divided the two
countries, thay have taken every occasion
to express with regard to the British nation
the highest refpeft and conlfflence, and to
shew how desirous they are to cultivate a
reciprocal good understanding, and efta
blifli a permanent alliance. This sentiment
has appeared not only in those public tranf
aftions, which might be influenced by poli-»
c ', biit in the comluft of individuals, whicifQ
aifords the belt, and indeed only criterion
of real character.
Mr. Paine has published a third part of
" The Rights of Man. "---It is said the se
vere truths utterred in this pamphlet, in
addition to those in his former two publica
tions, were the great motive for the royal
proclamation, iflued on'the 21ft of May,
reciting, that " divers wicked and seditious
writings have been dispersed with treason
able views, and to raise discontents in the
nation refpefting the laws and the consti
tution, and to bring into contcinpt the re
volution of 16$8, &c. &c. It then goes on
to enjoin all good citizens to guard against
favoring any publications of this kind, as
being iubverfive of all regular government
and national subordination; exhorting
them to discourage all political innovations
that tend to riot and tumult, and com
manding them to discover and deliver up
to justice both the authors and printers of
inch seditious writings, as well as the dif
perfers of the same > ""&c. &c.
Serious warning is given the inhabitants
ofthe United States in a Connecticut pa
per, of the mifchievolis confcquences at
tendant upon the use of copper and leaden
veflels in families, particularly the latter,
which are conlidered more injurious to the
human constitution even than copper.—•
Ihis writer justly reprobates those unprin
cipled persons, vintners, wine fellers, See.
who make life of what is called the Jufrar
of had to disguise the aciil of their wines,
than nothing operate if as a more
certain poifon.—"lt has been
lie) that the colic has been less frequent i'»
this country (ince the introduction of ear
then inltead of pewter plates—the intro
duction of iron tea-kettles, instead of the
copper, lined with pewter, may be conlid
ered alio as a ialutary change in this ref
peCt."
Human weakness is discoverable in no
thing more than in the pains some people
are at to mistake their own abilities. To
write, to any purpose. 011 the great sub
jeCts of legislation, government, and nati
onal politics, certainly requires some abi
lity, some intercourse with, and experience
of mankind, and an accurate knowledge
in their history. Yet how often do we fee
coming forward, and arrogantly aflum ng
the philosopher's pen, persons of shallow
conception, who have hardly a capacity
equal-to the duties of a parifh-clerk—ln a
fad lituation is that cause which is left to
the care of such miserable defenders : they
will do it infinitely more harm than fer-<
vice, and by the indifcret eft'ulions which'
are continually flowing from their pens,
their haltinefs, their paflion, their petulance
their impatience of contradiction, their e-1
vaiions, their inlinuations. garblings,
blings, open and disguised falfhoods, can 4
not but ultimately work the utter ruin 01
die cause they meant to defend.
Further European advices just come t<»
hand, state that, altho' no doubt the couri
ofßuffia is unfavorable to France, yet th 4
emigrant princes h3ve yet received nothing
from that quarter except a lupply of mo j
ney, in bills drawn on in Amsterdam.
A new pretender to the throne of Moroc-J
co has made his appearance in that
at the head of a |»owerful party —the latJ
Coun: Dillon, who was so inhumanly mas-■
sacred by his troops, fell a facrifice to ill
founded jealousy ; he had belonged to th#
Irifli brigade in France, and was a defcen--
dant of one of those families who formerly'
followed king James to Frande and whoftf
luccefloi's lince the revolution had, by thrf
national aflembly been deprived of theb"
property in their respeCtive regiments; M
Dillon had accepted of a command in the
national troops, who regarding him as as
malcontent, with respeCt to the popular V
cause, watched his every motion, from an
idea that b man of his known high fpiric
could not be lincere The ill fuecefs in
the late attack on Tonrnay confirmed their
suspicions of treachery, and roused the sa
vage fury which put a period to the life of
their commander,in the 64 th year of his age
and the fortieth of his military ferviies.
A magazine of powder had blown up by
accident atMarfeillei, aud al«iolt enirelja body of national artillery—ac
counts of some excefles committed on tht
frontiers of France in the late fkirmifhe:
were in several iuftances exaggerated—Nt
Austrian prisoners were massacred, as re
ported—letters had been read before tht
National Assembly lrom M. Biron and M
Rochambeau,-giving a detail of the variou
unfortunate events that had taken plact
among the troops on the frontiers, the for
mer complaining much of want of disci
pline and obedience in the soldiers ; th<
latter, that if no discretionary power fcs tc
be left him, but to be rigidly tied dowi
to the orders of war minilters, he wishes tt
resign all command.
The effe&s of the tax on newspaper
(fays a correspondent) shew it to have beer
an unwise and an ill fated measure. The ex
ceffive height of it has disgusted generally
Many fufpeft that it was meant to cbftruf
the information of the people in regard t<
their public affairs. As the loss of the bil
for lowering the rates proceeded from tin
Senate (and, as it was said at the time, bi
baninftant, illent, general vote) and tha'
branch of tire Ifgiflattire is known to fa
vour secrecy in public matters, those fufpi-
Cions gain the easier credit, and the unpo
pularity of that important part of the gov
ernnient increases in proportion. Th(
newspapers being split into two parcels
being totally excluded from the mail Jlages, unlej
they pay the tax, and the attention to them, di
vided, those that go in other conveyance
than the mail stage, cannot be expected t<
have the fame care taken of them as of the
others, or as perhaps was taken before i
was made the temptation of the port-office:
to disfawiur the conveyance out of the mail
whence a greater proportion of mifcarriag
e3 must naturally happen, to the disappoint
inent and discontent of the fubferibers. Ir
the distant dates, the home-papers earning
out, many of them, but once a' week, anc
having (late matters enough to fill up the
greater part of them, can'republifh but a
final! share of what passes at the feat of
Congress. Wherefore, the people in fuel
slates are deeply affected by the measure,
and in danger of being kept sadly in the
dark concerning the conduct of their pub
lic servants. The regulation having taker
place also at the eve, as it were, of a gen
eral election, it will have the evil effect of
keeping the people from knowing the con
duct of the government and of their ref
peftive representatives, at the veryjunfture
of time when they are to redreft their griev
ances, if they have any ; and there are
many, who give into the suspicion, that this
unfeafonablenefs of the time was not mere
accident, but that it might be intended, a
mong other things, to favour electioneer
ing cabals, and put the country people in
general, as well as the remote slates, in the
power of a few who can lay their heads to
gether and carry on their secret manoeu
vres. Whatever mav have been the secret
designs of a few in this matter, candour de
mands that others should be acquitted of
any ill views, It is nevertheless an unhap
py aH'alr, and will make the eufiiing gener
al elettion notfo iat»»fa£lory a touchstone of
the public mind as it ought to have been,
for it is certain, in many places where
the information contained in ,the papers
will not now circulate, the ele&ions will
turn very differently from what they would,
if the people kne\y as much as is known
here, on the spot. The evil is so much the
greater, by increasing one of the heaviest
inconveniencies ever charged on the, feder
al government by its opponents. For all
the most sober and argumentative charac
ters who set themfclves against the great
powers veiled in the government ahvayj
bent their objections principally again# tlu
vaftextent of the country, inferring there
from an impossibility of keeping the consti
tuent body duly informed, and the conse
quent want of responsibility in the govern
ment, and of a fui4kient check in the people
over their rulers. And altho' this objecti
on was carried much too far, yet it mult be
allowed to have weight thus far, that all
possible ways and means of bringing th'a
members of tilt government under the eye
of the people by easy, quick, and cheap in,
telligence. ought to have been fludied anil
promoted, instead of this ill-favoured tajs
at this suspicious time, which prodycingthe
contrary effect of putting the government
further out of tight of the people, must be
frtKfvely,deplored by every man who is a
trud friend to the government and to right
meifures, without favour, affection, or
partiality.
ExtraEl of a Utter from New- York, July Ir.
"Toreadfome of our papers, and to
have no other information, a stranger at a
distance would be led to suppose that we
are tipon the eve of a state-civil-war, and
that the game of bloody noses, broken
heads, and battered ribs,/if not the total
demolition of many frail tabernacle s'among
lis, had already taken place. Whatever
nay happen, fortunately things are not yet
1 advanced to those lengths, and every friend
to good order will deptecate brutal excess
es. The present <.afe I take to be similar
to what is sometimes observed in courts,
where the pleader who makes the mofl
noise has generally the worlt fide of the
question. It is somewhat extraordinary
fee men, who were avowedly hostile to
the American revolution, in the dark days
of adversity, now alTuming the garb of pa
triotism and endeavoring to take die lead
in government; men, who but the other
day were begging pardon of their country
for inimical conduct, now endeavouring to
eftnblifii a govetnment by committees, thro'
the slate. This, however, is one of the
blessed effects of that policy> "which pro
fefles to check the levity of popular govern,
ment by the introduction of toryism, and
controuiing the predominant spirit of demo
cracies by throwing the tory weight into the
federal scale."
Leyden papers are received to the 27 tk cj
April---from which, we have made the follow
ing cxtraßs :
" What can be the motives of the war
With France ? not the pofleffions of the
German princes in France, for that matter
could have been adjusted by negociation—■
It is the cause of the emigrants that pro
voKes to arms. The king has done every
thing in his power to prevail upon them
to return into the kingdom, instead oi
which they continue in open rebellion a
gamit their country—Will nut the new
king of Hungary set a bad example to his
own fubjeas by taking part with rebels anc
traitors' 1 Was the arming of France a mo
tive for war ?-- That was unavoidably pro
voked by the treaty of Piln.tz, and by the
asylum afforded to the emigrants on the
very irontier orFrance. In fliort, the arm
ing of France was simply on the defenfive,
a proof of which was the king's having or
dered no maritime armament. Certainly
the French clubs and pamphlets could have
been no motive for ieveral European pow
et s combining againfl the liberties of France
---If so, those fame powers, or even all
inuft have long ago made a cru
lade against England. The present com
bination of powers a<rainft France is sub
versive of the public order and interests of
It cannot be permanent, and mud
necessarily cease. if not during the war, at
least ■mmediate'y after. At all events,
and let the war end as it may, Auflria will
toon hnd herfelf destitute, and drained of
men and money. The more troops are
tent into the Low Countries, the more
will the people be irritated and disposed
to revolt. Arms are out of the question
when a people are determined to be free--
the more they are opposed, the more ener
gy they acquire- -This concert of powers,
therefore, iiaving no real or juflifiable ob
ject in vievr, is a political monster, which
will and must fall to pieces by its own
weight."
" Peace, or a continuance of war with
Franco, .efts t tii-ely with the court of
\ iean 1. It 1, to be hopsd, the new king
°^,^ ;l 'Igary,1gary, beforp he prjaceeds too far,
Wu. •!.... mto cojiiidcnitioi] the horrid con
fequencei of a long yyar with I'rance, the
expence, the inevitable loss of multitudes
01 men. and the air .ast entire ruin in which
he mill involve h:.. kingdom, be his arms
evel'fo viiforious."
" War being now certain', the patriotic
spirit in Fiance is more and more consoli
dated, and the nation will aa with deter
mines vigour. Equally ardent are the
leaders or the emigrants, who being ulti
mately decided not to submit to the yoke
oi the national aifemblv, will risque every
tiling to giut their vengeance. It now re
mains to be experienced whether the war
into which they have had theaddrefs to en
gage several powers, will tend in any de
gree to the advantage of -those powers
The cause of humanity has certainly much
to rcproach them with, and both the pre-
Snt age and posterity will severely recri
minate upon themiforadvancing what they
have the insolence to call, the cause of kings.
A refleaion of this kind ought surely to
have some influence upon the court of Vi
enna, and would have had its weight were
Leopold alive ; but the difpofiticn of the
new king is utterly hostile to every step
which seems to derogate from the Sinour
of iovereigns, and the dignity of exalted
rank."
EXTRACT.
IT is time that nations Ihould be ration
al, and not be governed like animals, for
the pleasure of their riders. To"Yead the
nifiory of kings, a man would be almost
inclined to suppose that government con
iifted in flag.hunting, and that every na
tion paid a million a year to a huntsman
Man onghtto have pr.de, or (liame enough
to blui'h at being thus impefed upon, and
when he feels his proper charafler, he will.
L pan all fubjeas of this nature, there is
often passing in the mind, a train of ideas
13 |' °t yet accustomed himfeif to encou
rage and communicate. Reftra'med by
lomf thing that puts 011 the charaaer of
prudence, lie aas the hypocrite upon him
felf a-, well as to others, Ic is, however,
curious to observe how soon this spell can
oe dillolved. A single exprellion, boldly
toncehed and uttered, will fometimesput
a who e company into their proper feelings
---and,whole nations are aaed upon in the
tame manner. _ [Pained Rights of Man. ]
The demies of reformation in England
cannot brook the boldnets of Payne's wri
tings, on the affairs of the government.
Lately they difcoverecJ a creditor of his,
to whom he owed a considerable sum ; and
had influence enough to get him arrelled
tor the debt. His friends however, by
living him timely notice, rescued him from
this dilemma, and rendered the attempt tc
confine him, fruitlefs. He has now a more
serious trouble on his hands, a criminal pro
cess having been inftituted,againft him as a li
beller . Theprofecution is followed up wit):
rigour, and the friends of the philosopher
are not a little afraid that he will be con
demned to the pillory, and to loose his ears.
Such a cruel procedure would hot be the
firft of the kind in England against those the>
call Reformers, that is, those who with for
a wiser and more equitable form of go
vernment than exists at present.
[Gazette de France, May 12.]
To those who are shaken by every breath
of report relative to the ill success or pos
sible mifcarrlage of the Revolution in
France, the following question might be
pertinently addressed ■- Can you feriouflj
fuppoie that the present struggle of that na
tion isnou the beginning of that univerfa!
reformation which is about to take place
in the world for the general benefit of the
human race, and which will unfold itfeli
into fuccefsful reality ? or, can you suppose.
upon a candid review of the history of mar
tjiat this globe is to be forever inhabited
and governed, orrather wafted and abused.
b)-10 malignant and contemptible a being
as in the ages past, thro' the influence oi
iaife government, man has fliown himfelJ
to be ? Certainly not: and such a supposi
tion wouid irnpiy a defect 111 that wisdom
and due proportion of things which is gene
rally obfervabie (tho' its advances ma;
have been gradual) in the inferior ranks ol
the animated creation, and the world oi
nature around us.
We observe, fays a correfpondenf, with
great fatisfaftion, a refurreftidn of thejuftia
of our country in every part of the United
" !a tes. Fhe univerfai cry is now againfl
the Congress of 1788 and 89. which funded
the public debt into the hands of D— and
Co. The infamous pra&ices, by which
this infamous business was eft'efted. begin
it last to be developed, and a stain has been
Jilcovered, by the enquiry, upon our 11a
-lonsl honor, that 110 time will wipe away.
7he violent gust that took place on
Sunday the ift instant, we are informed,
xtended as far southward as Hatteras,
Lat. 35. 6. A vessel in tljat latitude loft her
nainfail by this momentary tornado, and
■vas in imminent danger of foundering,
rom several water spouts which arose by
he fury of the wind.
The intimation lately given in one of the
30I101! papers, that it was agitated in that
uite to raise a body of American Volun
.eeis ta be difpatpht •,! to France, if necef
ary, to the afliftance o. ,the patriotic party,
ivas highly pleasing to all staunch Ameri
ans. As hostilities are now declared
je'tween Austria and France, the time seems
0 have -arrived when these volunteers
houid be called forth and organized, as it is
>t obable their afliftance will be. as accepta
jle in a Ihort time as at any future period.
correspondent doubts the propriety of
1 late translation of the French Revolution
>ong, Ca Ira. -Instead of this will do, this
W/ab, &c. it fliould be, it Jhallgo on, it
'Hallgo ok, —allpding to a visible suspension
11 tue councils of the French nation, about
.wo years ago, whether the revolution
nould proceed or not.
We hear from Maryland that a number
of that state arcabout efta
ilifhing a society in Port-Tobacco for the
liflemination of ufeful political knowledge
ne " lK| y the constitution of their coun
:ry, and the keeping up among the people
as much as pofllble, a knowledge of their
rights as free citizens of the greatest, and
perhaps the only true republic in the uni
verfc-.
The British have now a twenty-gun (hip
on Lake-C.hamplain ; and another, of a
hmilar denomination, to be launched in a
few months.
Pans, May 10.' Marlhall Luckner's ar
rival here isjuft announced. He is to re
pair to M. Rochambeau' immediately, to
urge him to retain his command, and re
itore the confidence of the army. A court
martial is to be initantly eftablilhed to try
and punish those who were guilty of trea
sonable practices at the afi'air of Mons.
Society for eflabli/hhg UJeful Manufactures.
PROPOSALS to contraG for the following
purposes, will be received at New-Yoik bv
Nicholas Low, at New-Ark by Eiiflia Boudinot,
at New-Brunfwick by John Bayard, and at Phi
ladelphia, by Charles Pettit—.viz :
lit. To cut a canal from ths river Paflaick,
'egmning at a point near a station, where Hands a
ake marked No. j, an J continuing thance to
e a precipice at or near a rock marked
1 . * ct "">l nuft be thirty feet wide, and
ir.uft be funk to a level with the furface of the wa
ter in the dried season.
2d. 1 0 erect flood-gates in the said canal near
0 f tnc brink of the precipice.
3d. i a crest a dam on the river Paflaick above
tk , rfat a " s » below the place of the cana'.
uam to be four feet above the level of the
'Urface of the water at the 4rieft fsafon.
4-tfc. Td ess& a dry wall acrof# a gully adjacent
to the abovementioned precipice, in a direction
Atom the laid station No. 3, to another station be
ing a Hake ma;ked No. 6, on or near the summit
of a hiJl,extending from the one to the other j
and to make a wooden trough upon the said wail
sixteen feet wide by fev<-n ft' d°ep.
sth.To extend a trough of the farAe diifienfion?#
from the laid station r« . 6, to another station
being a tree marked No. 7, with a dry wall on
one fide, the whole length thereof,of the thicknef*
of fix feet.
6th. 1o ere£t at the town of Paterfon, near
the Falls of the Pa fluids, a stone .building, fifty
five feet long by thirty-two feet wide, four stories
high,exclufive of a cej ar the whole length thereof*
7th. lo ercdl another stone building at the said
towß of Paterfon, seventy-eight feet long, by
thirty-one feet wide, three stories high, exclusive
of a cellar the whole length thereof.
Bth» To erect another stone building at the said
town of Paterfon, thirty-eight feet long bv twen
ty-seVen feet wide, two stories high, exclusive of ai
cellar the whole length thereof.
9th. To erect another stone building sixty-eight
ieet long by thirty fix feet wide, two stories high*
exclusive ot a cellar the whole length thereof.
loth. To eredt fifty houses of stone or wood;
as may be afterwards determined, each twen
tour ieet long by eighteen feet wide, in height
from the lower floor to she plate twelve fi-et, with
a cellar and a garret. Two houses to be un
der one roof, with a party wall. The propofais
will fpecity severally the rates at which these build
ings will be undertaken in stone and in wood.
Descriptive plans of the fereral obje&s above
(pec.fied,No. 2, 3, 4 , j, 7 , S , ,o, rriay be
lecn 111 .he potfeffion of Nicholas Low at N< w-
York, EiilKa Eoudi.not, at New.Atk, John Bay
ard, at New-Brunfwick, Charles Pel tic, at Phila
delphia and William Kail at the said town of Pa
terfon. The said William Hall will give such
explanations as may be necessary.
A delcriptive plan of the building above fpeci/ied
No. 6, may be seen in the pofi'effion of the four
/ b ,°, Vc nicn£,ontd persons and of Thomas
Marfliall, at the town of Paterfon who will give
inch explanations as may be necelTary.
A delcriptive plan of the building above fpecified
No- 9, may be seen in the pcfleffion of the four
firft abovementioned pcrfons, and of WiMairj
I earce at the town of Paterfon, wno will give such
explanations as may be neeiflary/
All materials are to be found, brought to the
Ipct, ana ercfled bv the contraitors, to whom li
beity will be granted under certain reftriciions to
use the Hones or timber which mav be on tha
iands of the society*
The propofais may comprehend either the
Whole or any one or more of the foregoing objetfs.
ihe proposers may accompany their propofais by
the luggertion of any other methods which lhall
occur to them for conftrufling a competent wall
acrols the gully from station No. 3, to station No.
f), and for conveying the water frum thence to
itation No 7, and the terms upon which they may
be disposed to contrail according to those method?.
All the works for conveying the water mull ba
warranted for seven years.
Proposals mult be in writing, and under feat
addrefied to the I'ociety for eftabiilhing ufeful ma
nu/a&ures ; and delivered to one of the said per
sons rirft mentioned, on or before the twenty sixth
»' July inilant.
J ul y io- » t .
j'"
To be puhlifaed by Sui/cr'tplion,
the
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OK.
Proceedings of the Old Congress,
From their firft Meeting in September' 7-4
to their final dissolution in March 1789, '
COMPRISING at full length, every impor
tant reloiution, erder, address declaration,
&c. contained in the thirteen volumes or reir
journals—a concise summary of the less interest
ing parts,—an alphabetical lift of appointments,
piomotions and relignations— a college view of
the public expenditures, See &c the whole in
tended to serve as a fatisfaftory substitute for the
original journals, which are now out of print, and
of which the entire substance, un incumbered with
official formalities and repetitions, will here be
given in about one fouith of their present bulk,
accompanied with one complete general Index :
lo which wiil be added, a copious and valulable
colle&ion of
PAPERS,
from the Records and Files of Congress,
Containing (either verbatim, or in abftraft,
as the cases may severally require) such intercfl
ing pieces referred to in the journals, as may with
propriety be to be made pubiic, viz.
Letters from the different officers employed in
the public service during the iate war—intercept
ed letters of the enemy—communications from
governors, state legillatures, . conventions, and
committees—dispatches from agents and com
millioners—inftrudtione-— reports of committees
of Congress; and various other authentic docu
ments, tending to throw a light on the importan*
events, to which America owes her present inde
pendence.
In the course of this work, will be introduced,
in their proper places, such parts of the
SECRET JOURNALS,
as no longer require secrecy.
As soon as 503 copies are fubferibe ! for, (ho
work will be put to press, to be delivered to' fub
fciibers, in numbers of 304 octavo pages each, at
OKiDoHAH.in blue boards. The Sub
fcriptwn mcney -will not be required for the firft
Number, until the publication is begun ; an d
on the delivery of each number, half 3 dollar will
be expefttd in advance for the succeeding one.
To non-fufcferibers, the price will be raised.
Subscriptions wiil be received by the prin.
cipal booksellers throughout the Union, and be
the Editor.'
JOHN CAREY. "
•A'». 36, Pear-Street, Philadelphia,ODES ON VARIOUS SUBJECTS.
HE who docs not read, i the book of the OcUr is
like am m Jlanding with his face fiat agaxnji a
wall: he can neither move forward, nor Jhr an
inch liihward.— Hau Kiou Choaan.
ODE I.
On the Fourteenth of J^ly.
rj RIGHT DAY, that did to France re
lto:C'
Wh it priests and kings ieiz d away,
That bade her generous fonrtlifdaiu
The fetters that their fathers wore,
The titled (lave, a tyrant's sway, _
That ne'er ihaH curie her foil again.;
Bright day ! a partner iii thy joy,
Columbia hails the riling lua,
She feels her toils, her blood repaid.
When fiercely frantic to destroy,
( P • Hid of the laurels he had won)
The Briton, here, unfheath'd his blade.
By traitors driv'n to ruin's brink
Fair freedom dreads united
The world mull fall if /lie mull bleed ;
And yet, by heaven ! I'm proud to think
The world was ne'er subdued by slaves
Nor fnall the hireling herd succeed.
Boy ! fill the generous goblet high ;
Succefs'to France, ftiall be the toafb :
The fall of kings, the fates foredoom,
The crown decays, its Iplendours d;e ;
Arid they, who were a nation's boalt
Sink, and expire in endless gloom.
Thou, fcranger, from a distant fllore,
Where fetter'd men their rights avow,
Why on this joyous day so Hid ?
Louis insults with diains no more,
Than why thus wear a clouded brow,
When every manly heart Is glad ?
Some pafiing days and rolling years
May 'fee the wrath of kings dXplay'd,
Their wars to prop the tarnlfh d crown;
But orphans' groan ■, and widows' tears,
And uftice lifts her Ihining blade
To bring the tottering baubiedovvn.
July 12.
Foreign News, by the lafi arrivals.
Tiie town of Ne wry has opened a fub
fciip'ion for railing a sum of money to be
presented to the national afTembly of
France, to a (Tilt in repelling the efforts of
foreig"- mercenaries, who with to govern
France againfl the will .of the people—
•- The '■ uitriar, fo'diers are co-.tiijually de
fer! in:;- theit colours and eic:.ping into the
territory of Frai ice. '1 iie king of the
French, anxious to give proofs of his at
tachment to the conff itution, gives up one
fourth of the civil lilt to the nation, du
ring the continuance cf the war. Trial
by jury took p'ace in France, for the firft
time, on the fifth of April ; multitudes
attended this new mode of trial, and the
whole was condu&ed with the moll im
poling folemnlty. The Dutch Stadthol
der has received many letters informing
him that he is in danger of affaflination ;
this gives hi* high m'ghtinefs great alarm,
especially as the fate of the k ng of Swe
iiiea is an event of such recent recollection.
A plan is thought to be in agitation with
fevcral European powers, not absolutely
hcftile to France, to accommodate the
pnient disputes by new modelling the
French eonftitutiontfrom that of England,
vhieti by Teftoring art order of nobility,
will in a great measure, alleviate the re
sentments of the emigrants. The Eng
lish minister at Paris had officially decla
red to the king of the French, that if an
invaiion of the Netherlands (liould take
place, on the part of France, Great-Bri
tain would defend them with all her for
ces The ariltocratic council of Bern
have condemned M. Rouffet, affeflor of
Bern, to 25 years imj-i ifomner.t, fur per
mitting the celebration of the 14th of July
1 _ fl
laic.
The late diflurbances atß'rmingham are
ftid to have originated from the following
circunsftance : A private of the blues lla
tionedat Birmingham, went to a b—dy
houle when 011 fomedi tpute, one Busby,
supposed to be the bully of the noufe,
ftri ck the soldier so violent a blow 011
the head with a glass-bottle, that he died
a few days after: ti.is gave occasion to
the ill-d\fpofed part of the populace to
rife, and under pretence of revenging the
soldier's death, carried plunder'and de
raltation through the town. Busby . and
his companions were committed to jail,
on a verdict of willful murder.
J"'■■■■ ■ 1 11 "" 1 rl "" — ™""
SHREWSBURY.
The hot weather ba-.ing now seriously
set in, the town will be for a time defer
red by all who can afford it. Quill-dri
yers, journeymen weavers, foopmen, and a
variety of other aefcriptions of people
who have rot made their fortunes, will,
if they are prudLiit, remain at home not
wittiHanding the heat, or at moll content
themselves with a ride to Gray's gardens,
Harrowgate, or a promenade in the Hate
house square.
To those whefe circumstances enable
them to travel further a-field, for some
weeks residence, no place can afford a
more eligible retreat than Sh'rewfbury,
a delightful settlement in New-Jerfev, dis
tant about seventy miles, on a north ealt
eourfe, from this city.
No part of the sea coast of the United
States can exceed, and very few parts, if
?ny can be reckoned equal in all refpecSts
to this township, for the salubrity of its
lir, the beauty of its landscapes, and va
rious other advantages ftt once conducive
La pleasure, health, and retirement.
An excellent foil of griziug uplaud,
with an intermixture cf elegant groves,
is extended to the very margin of the oce
an, and when you Hand on this verge of
the Atlantic, and call your view eaftvvard,
the tutored mind immediately reflects,
with some emotion, that no other land
lies in that direction, Giort of Europe and
Africa.
To the northward you have a roman
ce view of the bold and towering Never
ink. Glance your eye a point or two
:attvrard, and you have a dillant profpe£l
jf part of the south fide of Long-Illand,
ifing gradually in moderate Iwellings to
lis center. Between both, you at all
:irnes observe vessels gathering in from
it lead one quarter of the compals, and,
making the bed of their way for the
much-frequented port of New-York.
A small river puts in here over a dan
gerous bar, always covered with breakers,
and proceeds northward several miles into
the country. A branch of it runs well
ward a considerable distance ; bot.i well
Hocked with deliciou? oyllers, and shell
and scale fith of various kinds. And here
those who arc not excellent swimmers, or
are afraid of being carried off by the un
der tow of the furf along the main beach,
may bathe themselves in quiet waters,
as fait as those of the ocean, without
danger or interruption.
Every ilood-tide inthe fumimer months,
especially in the afternoon, brings in a
frelh lea-bre ze. Towards morning the
wind is from the land, and when theft
phenomena are interrupted for a day or
two it may b: concluded that bad wea
ther is at hand.
Shrewsbury is univerfslly a good neigh
bourhood ; the people converftuit, well
informed, obliging, and hospitable ; and
suitable accommodations can easily be had
in private families, at a moderate expense
for those who incline to pass the whole,
or a part of the summer in this agreeable
retreat, on the verge of the vatl expanse
cf another element.
July 12.
FRENCH MANIFESTO.
The following are the principles contain
ed in the French Manil'eflo, drawn up
by M. Condorcet, in consequence of
the war now entered into between the
French nation and the king of Hun
g 21 7-
AS the French nation have forever re
nounced the idea of conquefl,, so they are
forced into a defenfive war merely to refill
tyranny, and defend the rights of man.
They will therefore consider the inha
bitants of those countries, which groan
under the despotism of the king of Hun
gary, not as enemies but as friends, Snd by
opp:>fing the tyrant thathas enslaved them
the French army will fight to set tlum free.
thscaufe of France is the cause of
all mankind, so the victories which she
may obtain, will be the triumph of human
nature.
They will aeither plunder nor massacre,
nor disturb, in any manner, their fellow
creatures, tho'fituated in the dominions
of thetyrant they oppose ; but they will
Ihelter them undei the glorious burner of
freedom, and they will receive as brethren,
all who may resort to it.
They only seek for glory, by promoting
the happiness of mankind.
As the French nation have for ages
been subservient to tyranny and ariftocra
tic plunder, so they can feel for, and tru
ly pity, those who are now in ihe ftat*
that Fiance wasin before the revolution.
Tyrants may lay countries wade, anc
uefolatc the globe j but freedom shall b
!h; attended by mercy, and an olive branch
[hall be twined about its sword.
The deluded and wretched mercenaries
who are paid to fight the battles of oppref
lion, and to rivet their own chains for
ever, even the blood of these men (hall be
spared, whenever the importance of the
jircumftances will permit,
The brave men who may quit the rank;
cf infamy, to join the animated army ol
the free, (hall be honoured, cherished, and
rewarded.
No letters of Marque (hall be grantee
by the National AlTembly, to fanftion tlu
abhorred plunder of individuals on tht
liigh seas ; and if the creatures of theii
enemy are taken in the act of piracy, the)
(hall be punished according to the law.
Of the Fren-h rebels who may be
Found in arms against their country, it 1:
to fay that thty deftrvt to die
EPITAPH.
"Beneath this stupendous pile, rearV
y; the hands of millions, a monlter lies—
millions once the dread and pest—os
yranny the parent and the child ; of fla
rery, the offspring and the nurse ; of mad
imbition, the pampered minion ; ofliber
:y, the scourge and vi&im ; a hlppogriff,
a form not more terrible ; a harpy, not
norc vile, rapacious, or insatiate ; the
lores of fertile Nile, nor all the field 3 ol
k .arveft-waviiigSicily, nor all the cates that
;arth or octan yield, could ever satiate
lis luxury or his appetite ; Egeon's heads
ind hundred hands to his were few ; not
syphon, nor Enceladus, so many acres
jverfpread; nor could huge .Etna's mon
Irous bate afford a grave fufficient!- ILpa
let, wouldfl thou enquire what Kerculei
:his moniter flew ? 'Twas liberty ! —his
jrave is France, on whose broad bale this
glorious fabric securely reds ! would'fl
'.nowby whom'twas reared ? the French
Mation would'fl ask the monfter'i
aame?—'Twaa NOBILITY !"
HOWELL's LARGE
MAP of PENNSYLVANIA.
THIS work is engraved in the most elegant
flyle, and will be ready for delivery early
this summer. It is 63 inches long and 36 in
ches wide, and for the mod part very fj-ill of
work (except some I'mall places of which mate
rials were not .to be had) and was \yholly com
piled fioma6tual surveys, acquired at great ex
j«cnce of money, and more than four years
labour, and from its manifeft public utility,
the Legiflatute has been pleased to grant the
proprietor the fumof three hundred pounds.
This map exhibits the County and Townlhip
Divisions, and thole ol the Surveyors Diftri&s
in the New-Purchase, Donation and Deprecia
uou Lands ; the waters, portages, and the Ca
nal, mouivains and valleys, roads, towns, &c.
He thanks the Public for their very liberal
fubfeription, and informs them that it is yetkept
open. He fells his-SMALL MAPS, on can
vass, folded and cas'd for pocket carriage, at
iq/"6, and plain at 8/4.
HEADING HOWELL
No. 83, North Fifth-Jireet.
June it. law. 6w.
PROPOSALS
For Printing by Subfcription^
PUBLIC "re PORTS
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
OF THE
Government of the United States
CONGRESS,
Commencing with the prfent Government, and end
ing withthcclofc of tht SeJJionofMay 17^2.
THIS work is intended to be printed 111 one
volume oclavo, eftunated to contain between five
ind fix hundred pages, and will be delivered to
fubfcribersin boards atOne Dollar and a half.
A .complete collection of the Reports into a
convenient and portable volume has been fug
j;efled to the publilhers By several Members ol
Congress and other gentlemen, and they are now
determined to proceed on with the work, provi
ded a competent number of fubferibers appear
to patronize the undertaking.
Subscriptions are received by CHILDS ant,
SWAINE, the publishers, No. 209, Market
(Ireet, Philadelphia, and by the principal Book
sellers in the United States.
May 24.
CHESTER. TOWN & BALTIMORE
STAGES.
THE Eastern-Shore Stage, by way of Chef
frtown to Baltimore, starts regular!} 1 rom
fames Thompson's, Indian Queen, Fourth-f.reet,
'Philadelphia, ,every Monday, Wednefda aj]d
Friday, mornings, precisely at 7 o'clock- and
on the fame mornings at 4 o'clock, frorr- Mr.
Grant's in Baltimore. The cultivation bf the
country, and goodness of the roads, I'ogethei
with the atfntion that (hall be paid by -'he pro
prietors, will, itishoped, be a fufficienijinduce
ment for a preference being given to th:s route.
'AMES THOMPSON,
. ROBERT HODGSON,
BOOKS,
Printed and fold by
MATHEW CAREY,
No. li 8, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
I. American Museum, from its commencement
n 'January 1787, to December I 79 1 * * n tsn fUOiS *
Price, neatly bound and lettered, sixteen dollars*
This work, which is novo conduced on an im
proved pMn, containing the befi pieces publijhesfor
ind again ft the proceedings of government, will be
found to contain at leaji as great m variety of pcli
'ical, agricultural, and mijcellaneous ejfays, as ary
?ver publijhed in America• Perhaps in no one work
ire Jo many valuable documents tefpeflmg the hijlo
*y of this country, colleßed together. His excel
lency the President of the United States, has dt
cla red of it, that " a more ufeful literary plan
has never been undertaken in America, nor one
more deserving of public encouragement. Tie
fubfeription is two dollars and a halj per annum.
Gentlemen in the country who wifo to be fupplicd
with this work, are requcfied to give wmmijfion it
friends in the city to fubferfbe Jor and receive it.
2. Ladies' Pocket Library—containing : —MijS
Morels EJJ'ays } Gregory's Legacy j Pen
nington's advice 5 Marchioneji of Lambert s ad
vice j Swift's letter to a newly married tzdy j
Mrs. Chapone on command of temper j Mori sf a
hies for the ladies- —-P rict 6/6,
3. Smith's History of Nev/-Y'crk./-ow* its fir fl
'ettlement to the year To which is annexed r
1 dejeription of the country, with a jhort account
\f the inhabitants, their religious anSpoliticalJlate y
tPld the confiitution of the courts of jufiue——Price
1 dollar and a quarter.
j., Elements or Moral Science, by James Beat
ie,' 1.1.d. prcfe.fjor of morql philoJc.phy and logic
rffthe Marijchal College, Aberdeen—Price three
ourths of a dollar. Of this book the Critical Re
intwers ( vol. 69. p. bzSJ Jay :ii ,}Ve have seen
Nothing on these fubjefts more plain, more perfficu
is, or more generally ufeful."
5. Beauties of Poetry, Br'uijb and American,
obtaining feleEl productions of the mojl eminent Bri -
'ijh and American poets. Price four fifths of a dot,
6. Blair's Sermons, containing the whole of the
*hree volumes of the British edition, in two. Price
wo dollars.
7. Netkar's Treatise on The importance of reli- /
nous opinions• Price four fifths of a dollar.
S. Examination of the observations of Lord Shef
field's on American Commerce. Price, on very fine
'yaper,five eighths of a dollar.
9. The Conjlitutions of the several United States,
zvtth the federal Confiitution, &c, Price five
•igbths of a dollar.
10 M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition in
i 2mo. Price three eighths of a dollar.
11. American Jest Book, in two parts, with
wo very neat engravings• Price bound, thru
fifths of a dollar.
12. Garden of the Soul, by Bifoop Chalenor*
Price, bound plain, ha?F a dollar, in calf and let -
red three quart*' s of a dollar f plain l-idol.
13. The Douay Tranjlation of the vulgate Bi~
\le, in quarto. Price, elegantly bound and lettered,
50/2 —plain, fix. dollars.
Said Carey has for sale, a large assortment of
hooksy Qurtpect! as well as American edition,
which he will dispose of on the mofi reafenable terms,
Zountry gentlemen y who favor him with commands,
nay depend upon being Jupplied in the mofi fatisfac
ory manner. A liberal allowance to such as pur
:hafe quantities for public libraries, or to Jell again.
May 17. 6m.ia.w.
TO THE PULLIC.
THE Subscriber has it in contemplation soon
to decline his pr e fcnt luiinefa —and having on
land a considerable quantity of fuperfine second
ind elastic cloths, together with a variety of other
irticles in his way, proposes to fell them at thtt
following reduced prices, VIZ.
Best Superfine navy blue 34/.
Ditto, ditto. Scarlet
Common colours fuperfine 32J.
Elastic stripes 9/*
London buff and white caflimers 15/6-
Ditto, coloured do. 15f»
Yorkshire do. do.
Striped toilenets *4/*
Rat:inets
Striped Nankeens : 3/4*
A variety ofwaiftcoat fliape9 proportionably low
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London best (ilk hose, from 22/6 to 24/.
The above goods have been mostly imported from
)ne cf the firft mercantile houses in London, ana
ire of an equal quality to any imported intoAme
icaj they will be fold per piece or smaller quantity
is may best suit the purchasers , by the publics
most humble servant, JOHN SHEPHERD.
| person dilpofed to purchase the whole
uF the above stock, may also have on reafonabl?
terms his present dwelling house, together wit*
/,»e store, a more eligible lituation for business in
tVi* tailor's line is not to be found in this city.
Vhfe advantage of this bufmefs being so well eft;;*
alifhed by the proprietor will very great, and
tiom well known fadts, needs no comment.
A lease of fix years may be had of the house.
May I4 C 2a%-J^\
TEN POUNDS REWARD.
BROKE goal at Monmouth court-house on
Sunday evening, the 10th inft. a Negrtf
Man, named SAM, sometimes calls him-lelr
George ; is of a yellow complexion, high ch?ck:
bones, large white eyes, and impudent look j said
nei-ro is about five feet ten inches high, had on
and took with him when he went awaj, a fhc?tirg
shirt and trowfers, oznabrigs frock, and an old felt
h-at. Whosoever will deliver said runaway to his
matter, or lodge him in any goal, so that his naaf
ter may have him again, ihall be efititied to the
above reward to be paid by me,
ELI3HA J.SWEL.
Freehold, Monmouth county, June 22, 1792.
1 aw 41
printed by
CHI LD S AND SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE, WO. 209, «IGH-!T3EE7
tiSAR FII'TH-STKEJT,