Vol. I.
LONDON, May 12—22.
Parliamentary Reform.
IN the year 1782, Mr. Pitt moved for a
committee" to inquire into the pre
sent (late of the representation in parlia
ment, and to report to the house tlieir ob
serrations thereon." In support of this
amongst other argument?, to
prove the corrupted state of the reprcfen
tation, in describing the iituation of the
different boroughs in the kingdom, he
fii-J " the vstcrtjlt of the treasury are confid
treil, as wed as the interejls of the great man,
the Iqrd, or the commoner, who has connexion
until the borough; but the intcrefts of the
people, the rights of the ele&ors, are the
only things that are never attended to, 01
taken into the account." As 1 (til! (Irong
cr illullration of his argument he farthei
said, " there are cities and boroughs more
within thejurifdiciion of the Carnatic t. .in the
limits of the empire oj Great-Britain ; and it
is a fail pretty well knoiun, and generally un ■
(ferJlood,that the nabob of Arcot has no
less than seven or eight members in this
house." Towards iheclofeof his speech
he cited the opinion of lord Chatham—
" That person," he said, " was not apt to
indulge vague and chimerical speculations, in
conjijlent with praHice and expediency. I
personally know that it was the opinion of
that person, that without recurring to Jirfl
principles in this refpeel, and e/lablfhing a
more solid and equal representation of the peo ■
pie, by which the proper ccnflilutiona! ctnnex ■
ion miyht be revised, this nation, with the
belt capacities for grandeur and happiness
of any on the face of the earth, mull be
confounded with the mass of those whose
liberties are loft in the general corruption
of the people."
It was in this manner that Mr- Pitt
spoke in the year 1782, when he Was an
advocate for a reform of parliament.
He was answered by Mr. T. Pitt,
{now lord Camelford) who fdid, —" I dis
approve of the proposition, beccufe it leads to a
pr inciple / never can admit of —a principle oj
equal representation. I dif approve of the
mode, lecaufe I confulcr a committee of the
fort proposed by my honorable friend, con ■
fining itfelf to 110 fpecific proportion,
nay, to no line or princ pie whatever, as
tending to no purpose but to hold out vi
fionary hopes to visionary men, which it ;j
utterly impojjible to fatisfy, ar.d which, ending
in dijappointment to the expellati.nof the pub
lie, can produce no confequ nee, but to in
flemethe pafiions, and difTeminate difson
tent over the kingdom. Now, Sir, aj ti
the moment, allow me to fay, that it appcan
to be ill chosen on many acctunts. There ar<
at this time, wild and extravagant ideas in
the public with regard to the representa
tion, which I hope time and reflection will
cxpofe in their true light ; but till that spi
rit (hall have fublided, it is little likely
that anyfober, pradlical, judicious fchemc
of regulation in this particular can be at
tended with the conlequences we might
wifh."—ln the conclusion of his speech hs
adds—" Gentlemen may flatter tlnm
lielves they can set bounds to these enqui
ries as they please, and be mailers of tlx
torrent they are going to let in upon us
that when they admit the principle of equal re
presentation, which they feel to be impraSica
ble in its full force, they can rejlrain its opera
tion to the degree they fnall think proper,
They are miflaken ; the principle nni/l be car
ried through, or it mujl be abandoned."
Such are the common-place topics with
which th<-fe interested in viewing the pre
sent corrupt system have at all times com
bated proposals for reform. Such were
the arguments opposed to Mr. Pitt in
1782 ; such, in the year 1792, are the
very arguments he himfelf uses since his
opinions are changed, and he is become a
determined oppofcr ot a reform of parlia
ment. To this purpose the following
ftanzae are pertinent, supposed to be spo
ken by Mr. Pitt:
By P. FRENEAU: Publifutd, Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
WEDNESDAY, July 25, 1792.
THE gentlemen fay,
They remember tli? day,
When I was an advocate warm ;
For equalization
Oi repi'efentation,
And aloud for reform.
But indeed t'would be (trange,
If my mind did not change,
As circumltnnce alters the cafe;
Thcfc (hort lightfed-fnen,
M;iy remember when
Another man was in my place.
Majorities did
What the ministers bid ?
And he was the nation's undoing ;
I was thin as a Hag,
And my empty green bag
Presented lio picture but ruin.
No borough then rotten
By me was forgotten,
I brought them al! into disgrace ;
But their timbers were found
To be pcrfe£Uy found,
The moment I go: into place.
I admit there are blots,
And a few little spots,
Whiehftainthe white robe c>f the nation ;
But that is no cause
For mending bad laws,
And changing the representation.
At some other season
It might be a reason,
Though at present it is not the cafe ;
I am minilter prime,
And 'twill never be time,
So long as I keep in my place.
That the French (hould be beaten in
jn engagement with superior numbeis of
Jifcip'ined t'oops is not to be wondered
it. They mult expect to be beaten in e
m-y action for months to come. With
nothing to oppose to cool (kill, and drift
obedience, but tumultuous mthufiafm and
irregular impctuofity, they can expedt on
y to seize on triumph by a couple main.
A regular adtion mult be fatal to them.
Dut we have seen that men are belt school
ed by adverlity. They will be disciplin
ed by their enemies; and a whole nation,
si hting for liberty, can afford the loss o(
men that they mult fuffer in training.
The defeat therefore would not have
mrt the caufc of freedom ; but if it be
rue that a savage multitude wrelted from
he tribunal of justice their own officers,
jnd murdered them with horrible cruelties,
the cause is indeed wounded in its vitals.
It is almost as difgracefhl as the riots of
Birmingham were to England ; with this
only difference in favour of the French
ruffians, that their passions were inflamed
b/ a sudden (hock of misfortune, whereas
the Euglifh banditti had no provocation ;
loctle to their atrocity but black and fu
rious ignorance worked upon by prieft
:raft and bigotry.
We remain itill, however, so uninform
:d on the fubjedt, that we ought to sus
pend our judgments until we have more au
thentic particulars.
Miuilters though sometimes competed
to acknowledge rhe existence of abuse, al
ways oppqfe the application of a remedy,
T hey are sensible that a reform of things
would naturally lead to a change of men.
THE TUDLIC EDUCATION OF FRANCE.
IN the plan of public education, sub
mittid to the National Assembly by M.
Cordorcet, and which is printed ft) 1 * tile
use of the members, there is the following
memorable pallage :
" The principles of morality taught in
the fchocls. and in the iniliiutions, (hall
be thole which, founded on natural senti
ment and reason, belong equally to all
men. The conltitution in recognizing
the right which each individual has 10
chufe his religious wordiip, and in tllab
lifningan entire equality among all the in
habitants of France, doc.s not permit that
any mode of religious worihip (hall, be a-
dopted, which excluding the children of
one part of the citizens, would destroy the
equality of advantages, or would give to
particular dogmas aa advantage contrary
to the freedom of opinions. It is there
fore r igorouily necelTary to separate from
morality the principles of all particular
religions, and not to admit into public in
ltru£tion, the teaching of any mode of re
ligious worlhip. Every one of thefeought
to be tajiglit in the temples by its proper
ninilterj Tlie parents, whatever may be
ilieir cieed, whatever may be their opini
in, as to the neceflity of fueh or such re
igion, can then, without repugnance.fend
heir children to the national ellablifh
■nents, and the Hate will not, as heretofore,
ifurp the rights of conscience, under ihe
jrctext of cnligiitening and direftiufl
hem."
Extract of a Idler from Paris, April Zs.
" A robber and afTaffin was this day ihe
irft to experience the fatal effe£t of the
aew machine for the execution of crimin
lis. lie was securely bound to an up
- ght pillar, which turning upon a hinge
aid him in a horizontal position with his
lead in a kind of aperture like that of a
pillory. The boards that confined his
liead were doub'e to adm t between them
:i blade of enormous weight, which rufliing
down upon an inclined plane, divided the
neck with certau and inllantaneous effect,
and no doubt without much sensation ,of
pain to the fufterer. A basket placed be
fore him received the head ; the bleeding
trunk was again erected, and both were
immediately sent away. Though there is
fomethir.g awful in this punishment, the
populace, who coolly difcufled its merits,
aid " they fnould relish it better than
aanging." The honor of the invention
x'ing due to M. Guillotin, phyGcian, po
itical writer, and a diftinguifted member
}f the Grit assembly, it is universally Galled
he Guillotine. Could his modesty, how
;ver, have forefeeu that he fliou'd go by
:his road to immortality, it is much to be
ioubted whether he would have availed
iimfelf of the versatility of his talents."
miwin. ■■■mi
PHILADELPHIA.
Ex trails from the Ley den Gazette ) and olhct
Ficnch Papers.
IVarfvw, Aptilij;. Poland frems or
:he eve of experiencing the fad effects oi
:ourt intrigue. Not at all interetting her
tlf in the great concerns of Europe, pol
ntermeddling in any fliape in the quarrel:
)f the leading powers, intent .upon hei
iwn happiness is neverthelefsupot
he point of being exposed to a fucceffior
>f unfavourable events, similar to those
which menace France. The king himfeli
las informed the Diet, that a severe (truc
kle is to be apprehended, for tlie mainte
»nceof the coirft tution. The Ruffiani
iave not yet indeed a&ually entered Po
and, but measures are taken for this pur
jole, and three divisions of their grand
irmy are to enter at the fame lime. The
Polanders arc vehemently disposed for re
iiftance.
BrnJJels, May 6. On the third of tin.
present month were marched iwto this cit)
l number of French prifoneis, togethci
ivitli a long train of carriages, bringing
in the firfl fruits of conquefl over tin
French, among which are, one howitzer,
four pieces of artillery, called la Mcdejle,
'a Timidc, PEcorcljcufc, (the hide-flayer]
and la Martiak, with covered waggon 6
travelling forges, &c. &c. In regard tc
the attack upon Mons, the Auflrian ac
counts arc as follow : that besides five foui
pound pieces of artillery, and a ten poun
der howitz, with their carriages &c. there
uere taken from the French fcveral forces,
for the purpose of heating their balls red
hot, to be discharged agaiufl MOll3 ; a
large quantity of hay and oats, and war
like flore3 of every kind : the/piifoners
were one lieutenant-colonel, two other of-
Nums. 77.
ficers, and eighty-nine men. The whole
loss of the French was ellimated at 4cO
men killed irv the attack and puifait.
Extrall of a leit:r from IVarfiw, Vlpr'il 25.
" Our political horizon becomes more
and more dark, and the machinations of
our enemies at the courtcfPeteifburg have
given us an uneasiness, by no means ill.
founded. The information wchavereceived
from our miniiler at Vienna, and the Em
press's declaration to that court, fully con
firm ouiapprchenlions. At a meeting of
the Diet pu the 2lit inft. the king com
municated the dispatches he had received
from our trrinifter at the court of Russia,
which have changed our doubts into a difa
greeablecertainty. Our mmifter writesfiom
thence, that Counts Potocki, Brewulki,
and some other of our principal opponenta
and mal-contents have fully succeeded in
their attempts to engage the court of Pe
cerlburg to arm againlt ouf new conltilu
tion. The courts of Vienna and Berlin
have endeavored to negociate in our favor,
though ineffectually ; the reply of the
Empress was, that (lie was determined ri
gidly to adhere to the guarantee /he had
formerly given to the old form of govern
ment eitablifhed under the auspices of Po
laNd. The leafon for warlike operations
being now at hand, every thing pioves that
the French revolution will accelerate the
holiilities of Russia."
Manhe'tm, May 2 The greater part of
the Hates of the empire are very mucli
disinclined to wir. The ecclefiatlical
princes, who have nothing to lofe,and give
theinfelves little trouble about the general
prosperity of the country, feeia alone to
Jefire it.
Berlin, .April 28. Four days are now
elapsed since the troops, dedincd againlt
France, were assembled. The reginunrj
to march are as follow ; Waldeck, Bn-s
derberg, Duke of Bninfwick'?, Thadden,
Schoenfield, Ivarnitz, Kleilt, Hohenlohe,
Willinghoven, Wolframdorf, Her{zberg,
Borch, Renouard, Legat, Ernft-Mufllfng,
Forcade, Schoenk, and a regiment of light
hoife men—Cavalry,—llou, Weymar,
; fquadror.s of dragoons:Schmettau,i>chir
lky, Bayreuth, Nortnann, Lottum, each
| o squadrons :—Hujfars, Eben, Wolfrath,
Kochler. The artiilery confilla of thirteen
batteries of great guns, three batteries of
field artillery, besides what belongs to each
regiment. It may be depended 011 that
the King will head the army in person,
and the Prince Royal will accompany him.
St. Peterjburg, April 20. Armies are
rafingand fleets equipping, which wiil a£t,
it is said, according to circumltances,
either againlt Poland or France, or both.
In cafe of invading the latter, a Swedish
fleet is to join the Ruffian, in order to
convince the French patriots, that the al
liance, or concert of powers is not a plan
tom. The French have been doing all in
their power to engage Denmark to fide
with them, but their elfort9 were ftuitlefs.
It is now well known that the court
of Copenhagen i 3 too prudent to inter,
meddle iuthe concerns ofother nations and
neglect their own, Discontented refugee*
from Poland are daily coming in here*
They do not appear much in public, and
with good reason, for notwithstanding we
Ruffians are called fiaves, we view with in
effable contempt these traitors to their
country, who come to alk our affulaocc
againlt the liberties of their nation.
Our court has at length had intelligence
of captain Billings, who is employed in
continuing to make discoveries for Russia
in the South Seas. This navigator du
ring the year 1790, surveyed those duf
fers of islands denominated the Kourllit
and Aloutes, where he has discovered
many new species of plants, proper fortho
fultenance of man and bealt: happy disco
veries ! and a thousand times more ufeful
to man than those political fyltems which
diftuib, and will for a long time dillurb
the peace of this little reltlefs quarter of
the globe, called Europe." Tlic river Neva broke t:p ont!is I2t?i t'n-
Hant having been fail frozen e .xr Once the
6th of December. Indeed, ail our purs
a e now open ; and 'twece to be widicd,
for lbe happiness of Rullia, that only com
mercial movements would take place the
ensuing season : peace is much wanting to
repair the mifchiefs conltantly attendant
upon war.
Gener a, May I. "We learn from
Turin, that the court has ordered four of
the newly taifed regiments to march into
Savoy, amongst which is that of the
guards The militia are to be aflembled
on the fourth ; so that the Duchy will
have 10,000 men to defend it in cafe ol
an attack from France. All this military
parade, however, does not alarm the inha
bitants ; and an uneasiness exists in the
towns, particularly, which may becomc
fatal to the authority of the king of Sar
dinia. As to Switzerland, the canton oi
Zurick is for the most absolute neutrality-
At Milan it is reported that the king oi
Naples is advancing with ten thoufanc
men towards Nice. Whoever reads Mr
Salis' travels through Naples and Sicily,
will be convinced that the king in endea
vouring to help ext!ngui!h the flame it
Trance, will set fire to his own nest.
Paris, May 2t. The Aulbrian mani
fejlo published by the Governors-General o
the Low Countries, excites more and mori
indignation, as the despotic principles of i
are more and more investigated. It i
probable that if Leopold had been living
it would have been better adapted to aftua
circumstances In quality of despot hi
might have said a great deal'againil liberty
and the mifebiefs that attend it ; he migh'
have greatly exaggerated the momentan
difordsrs which it bringswiih it in a court
try that pasTes suddenly from one extremi
of government to the contrary extreme
He might have stigmatized the Frencl
nation, the immense majority of that na
tion, legally represented, as a band off/c
tious wretches, or even a club of Jaco
bins. He might have dwelt upon th.
excellencies and bleflings of nobility an<
aristocracy till he was tired, as the mairi
feftos do; but he would not have been si
much off his guard as to have mqntionec
the obligations, which, in various refpefts
the French nation lies under to thefeclafTe
of citizens. He would not have dared t(
recal to the minds of Frenchmen tha;
their obligations to the nobility confiftet
only in the melancholy recollection tha
they had been opprefTed by them for man;
centuries, without rights civil or political
groaning under the weight of feudal ant
sacerdotal slavery, without remedy or com
passion. Leopold would have been cau
tious how he mentioned monks, priests
and their confifckted property. He woulc
have been afraid to recal to the memorj
of the Belgians the conduct of Mari;
Theresa in this refpeft, and especially thai
of joseph the I Id, who banished the priefb
and monks from their churches,and expel
led them from their convents, and pofTeffec
himfelf of their property, afterwards con
fcrring pensions upon them much less con
siderable than those allowed to the Frcncl
priests by the National ArTembly. Thi:
seizure of the church-property by Joseph,
was under pretence of establishing a religi
ous fund, that is to fay, putting it into hii
own purse—-We mull, however,do the ma
nifefto justice in one particular. It is 1
proof, of itfelf, that the age of philofophj
is rapidly advancing, when tyrants find
themselves under the necefiity of aidrefT
ing their arguments to the reason of man
kind. In th s instance they either reason.
or pretend to reason. Only listen to one
of the arguments which they make use oi
to fortify the Brabantines againfl the de
luiions of French liberty. The French
ast (fay they) " under the deceitful colour
of an equality of chimerical rights, not ex.
ilting in fact, and annihilated if it could
for a moment exist, by that variety of cha
racter, imposed on all mankind at their
birth, by which they share in very unequal
proportions, moral faculties, the dispro
portion of which has always determined,
and will ever determine the ascendancy oi
genius, strength, patience," &c. &c.—We
grant that there is a natural and necefTary
inequality in mankind, which, in a state of
nature can produce nothing but injustice
and violence, the conquering of which
malignant propensities is the business of
every civilized society. But the philoso
pher who composed the manifefto, infers
from the nature of man in a savage state,
that this natural, this precious inequality,
null be supported and maintained in so
ciety : The prerogatives of tyrants are ad
mirably adapted to (his purpose, as weil as
the emoluments and cnciufive honors af
i.by inferior orders ; not to mention
other good tiFcdts which are produced by
the preponderance of the " better fort"
i:i the vari ius ranks of society. Such is
the reasoning addreffedto the people of the
Brabantine provinces !—'lt may be proper
to add that the mercenaries from Hunga
ry have orders to kill the citizens and
peasantry of the Brabantine piovinces,
witness a second manifefto publiflied by
general Bender, from which it appears
that the sword and bayonet are cloathed
with judiciary power in the Low Countries
during the whole campaign, and that hos
tile measures are to be adopted against all
ill designing persons, whether in cities,
towns, or villages.
Proclamation and Information from the
Commanding Powers of his Apoftoli
cal Majesty's army in Aultrian Low
Countries.
HAVING been compelled to aflembk
an army againlt an enemy which has pre
sumed to declare war, in a manner the
molt unjuftifiable, against his Apoßolica
Majesty Francis the 111, King of Hunga
ry, and it being apparent that in conse
quence thereof many fortreffes and pods
are diverted of their garrisons, it is expert
ed that in this situation of affairs, all citi
zens and inhabitants of the Austrian pro
vinces in the Low Countries, will fuppori
ti perfedt harmony amongst themselves, a;
well as public order and tranquility, noi
only out of regard to their own private in
terefis and the public welfare, but to ena
bie the atmy the better to unite all it;
Itrength against the common enemy, anc
to repel them whenever they dare to ap
proach.
If neverthelefs,contrary to our expedta
:ions, there fliould be found any persons ;
who, forgetting the duty that they owe tc
their sovereign and their country, and whe
should be so badly advised as to make an)
attempts againlt the sovereign and lawfu
authority,which protedts and defendsthen
by its army, or who fliall dare to moldl
those fubjedts, who continue faithful tc
their sovereign, either in their duties 01
employments, or who shall be found spirit
ing up the people to disturb the publi<
?ood order ; if any should be found thu
tranfgrefling, the public are hereby in
r ormed, that the military is not only au
thorized, but is ftridtly enjoined, not tt
tiefitate a moment in repelling force bj
Force, and to make life both of fire-arm
ind fide-arms against all military afTem
blages ®f the people, if they do not imme
diately disperse at the firft word of com
mand.
In cafe any should be taken, adting a<
g-ainft their sovereign, as above fpecified
the military are ltriftly commanded to put
:nto execution the laws of war against ene
mies, without allowing the persons, thu:
taken, to challenge a hearing before th(
ordinary civil judge; and to announce ir
public, that the military power has order
to treat persons thus seized upon as ene
mies of the king and (late, and that in cafei
)f urgency,that mode of execution shall bt
nfliftcd upon them, known by the title oi
Stand-recht.
If excesses of the kind above mention'
:d should be committed in places when
here is no garrison or troops, the ill.
lefignintr are not to flatter themselves that
he warlike preparations of an enemy, whe
:annot intimidate us, will prevent our de
taching a fufficient number of corps a-
Jain It such cities, towns and villages, ir
arder to punish them, and to adopt every
neans in our power which the laws of wai
■vill petmit us to adopt againlt such hollilt
.ities, towns, and villages.
1 o the end, however, that peaceable anil
well meaning p;ople may not fubjedt them
.elves to punishment along with the mu
tinous and rebellious, the present mani
elto is ordered to be publiflied in the two
.anguages of the country, so that no per
ton may pretend ignorance, and that faith
ful citizens may be warned carefully to a
void all riotous afTemblies, and to confuit
their own fafety in cafc the army fliould bt
under the neCeflity of adting against the
refradtory ; unless they fliould prefer to
aid the cause of their lovereign, in seizing
and delivering up to the military, the ene°-
mies and disturbers of the public peace, in
which cafe, and in which duty, the armv
(hall countenance and protedt all honelt
and peaceable citizens.
Signed Baron De BENDER,
Marechal.
Brjflels, April 30, 1792.
Rome, April 20. " The departure of
the Pope for the Marflies ofPontini took
place on the 26th inft. It is his faftcm
once a year to visit those works, which
have now been a long time carrying o::,
in order to feltore to fertility and. culti
vation an in-.menfe extent of marflly and
unhealthy territory. His Holiness had
taken care previously to order there the
soldiers of the Corfican battalion, who are
to remain at Terracina, as long as he
thinks proper to continue at the Marshes;
this precaution evidently (hews, that his
Holiness is not without fears of some po
pular commotion.
The new Archbishop of Thebes, the
Abbe Maury, is busy in making prepara
tions, on his million to Frankfort, to affilt
at the election of the Emperor. He has
already expended the 60 thousand Italian
crowns (which were allowed Jiini to sup
port his mifiion) in purchasing a magnili
cent equipage. It is to be attended by
forty liveries ; and in the number of those
that wearthem are reckoned twenty noble
men, and as many villains [orflaves.]
Basil, (Switzerland) May 3. The arif
tocrats of this country are conitantly giv
ing the reins to tfceir invagination in or
der to render odious the patriotic spirit in
France. The words propagande and Ja
cobins have, through their influence, a fort
of talifmanic effect, and entirely fafcinate
the eyes as well as the underllanding.
They contrive a creed of the French pol t
ical faith by their own fire-fides, and ther, ;
set about abusing it as if it was the rea
constitution. But what do they hope tc
gain by all this ? Supposing they had ut
terly detached us from the interelts oi
France, what is then to prevent the Ger
manic bodyfrom matriculating us intothcii
empire ; and when once incorporated intc
that confederacy,who will proteftus againf
the claims of the Houfeof Aultria. Tht
ane'ent pretensions of that House are bj
no means forgotten, and without doubt
they will endeavor to turn the present cir
cumftancesto our difadvantagc.
May 4. The French declaration oi
war againlt Hungary has effe&ed a great
change in this place. The disposition ol
the people at large is favourable to France,
which has so alarmed the aritlocrats, that
they are every where emigrating from the
canton.— The fierce and imposing ait
with which France has declared war again(t
the king of Hungary and Bohemia, has
prodused an allonilhing effect in Switzer
land. The party-ariltocratic of Berne,
who also gave the tone to Fribourg and
Soleurre have found all their counter-revo
lution plans wholly deranged. Th: Can
ton of Basil has declared itfelf neutral,
and has lent in a demand for the afTem
bling a Diet extraordinary, to enforce 1
llrid neutrality throughout the Helvetic
body.
Manifejlo of the Kings in Concert againjl France.
WE call God and all nations to wit 11 ell
that we have no other intention in the con
cert we have formed, but to repress in eve
ry kingdom that wicked and outrageous spi
rit of liberty, which under the falfe, but
specious, pretext of meliorating the condi
tion of men, ftrikesatthe root of all royal
and legitimate government, and tends tc
annihilate the julf influence and authority,
which being derived immediately from
Cod, is superior to all rights merely hu
man. United for this ufefnl purpose, we
are fenlible that every thinking and loyal
heart will approve ol the principle upon
which, we ait, and that constituting our
selves the guardians and watchmen over
the happiness of every people in Europe,
we (hall be supported in interfering in the
internal proceedings of every kingdom, and
in directing,, ordering, and commandite
whatever we may judge to be neceflary for
their particular good government, peace,
and tranquility.
Animated by these salutary and whole-
Tome principles, the kings in concert cannot
fee with indifference a measure taken tip
and supported by the minister of his Britan
nic majesty (and which has received the
concurrence of one of the three estates ol
that kingdom) that propofesto extend th:
chimerical liberty, to which some of the
white nations insolently aspire, even to the
blacks of Alrica. A measure so pregnant
with danger to the ancient order of things,
and which in its consequences would
eilablilh the romantic and diabolical notion
oi equality among men, their majesties,
with the blefling of divine providence, mull
withstand and repress. They have there
fore given iuftru£tions to their respective
ministers at the court of his Britannic r.ia
ielty, to represent to their beloved brother
and con'in, their jult alarms on the fubjecl
of the abolition of the (lave trade—their
confidence in his well-known love of order
gives them thelfrongeft a.Turances, that the
liappy underllanding which now fublifts be
tween the court of Great-Britain, and the
courts in concert, will not hereby be inter
upted, and that they lhall not be'obhged to
employ the force which God has put into
their hands, to prevent the overthrow of a
trade, which they consider as indifpenliblv
eiiehtial to the-mainlenance of the dignity
and power of the crowns, as well as of the
prosperity and happinefo of the people of
wreat-Bntain and of Africa. It 'is for
those great interests alone that they have
taken this step ; and if a categorical answer
(hall not be given, in twenty-four hour,,
they have directed their several minister*
to quit the said court without taking leave.
If they should be driven to this alternative
(which God forbid) they have the utraoft
i eliance in divine providence, in the justice
of their cause, and in the good dispositions
of the people of Great-Britain and of Afri
ca, for whose interests alone they fliall un
dertake the war !! !
[London Chronicle.']
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
r T^ H " constitution of the United States
A begins, we the people. The ad
vocates of the system have plumed them
lelves on having, made a notable discovery
in government—that the lovereign power
of tree states rests with the people*-and yet '
these very men appear jealous and condemn
with the most insolent abuse every attempt
made by the people to inquire into the mea
sures of government. If it was even con
lirtent with the principles of the general
government to suppress t'he opinions of the
citizens respecting public affairs, would it
be fafe ? would the legislature ast with
greater circumfpeaion, justice and wisdom,
enveloped in the dead silence of a despotic
government, than having its measures con
stantly canvafled by free citizens, who are
to be afiefted by its measures ; legislatures
must either have designs inimical to the lib
erties of the people, or must be puny politi
cians indeed, who wifli to make every act
of government amyftery of state.
In civil society force is not to be used e
ven against unjust laws, except as the ultima
ratiopopuli. What then must we think of
those men who wish to suppress eyerv kind
of candid investigation respecting public af
fairs, or who thro' the medium of a venal
press give them a falfe coloring, only in
tended to deceive ? there is no (late of in
difference with refpeft to public measures ;
they are either calculated to promote the
private interests of the well-born few, or to
secure the prosperity and happiness of the
people. The choice between the two is
certainly a matter of importance. But in
what manner is the choice to be made if a
candid investigation into public measures is
to be suppressed ? A government that sin
cerely desires to do good will encourage a
free and public inquiry on every fubjeft, in
order to come at the truth. The melan
choly silence which prevails in Turkey,
Ruiiia, and other despotic governments,
neither proves the security of those em
pires, nor the happiness and contented situ
ation ofthe people. It is true that you
hear no complaint of the ministry, no dil'-
refpectful word uttered refpefting the af
fairs of government, and yet the oppressed.
fubjefts are frequently roused from the
most timid state of fubmiflion, to afls of tha
utmost outrage and violence. You may*
for a time retain men in the most abject
state ofoppreffion, and you may dignify it
with the name of government,but it has ra
ther the appearance of a secret ming which,
however apparently quiet, yet is every 1110- •
ment in danger of explosion.
July, 18. A FARMER.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Detached Thoughts on Elective
Govern'ment.
SUPPOSE the United States were, like
Poland, surrounded onalllidesby jealous,
ambitious, powerful neighbours, what in
:ereft could any of these have in embroil
ing the country by their intrigues, to pro
cure the election of any one particular per
on ? they could not place a ftrangerin the
Pi elident s chair : for though at present a
foreigner may ftiil beelefted, that foreign--
?r must be a resident citizen, of 14 years'
landing ; and after the lapse of a few
rears, none but " a natural born citizen" will
Je eligible. Behdes, how could they, in
-eturn for their millions spent in bribery
ind coi ruption, ever hope to derive equi
valent advantages from a man, who is elect
ed, not for life, as was the cafe in Poland, but •
.01 the short term offour years, and who is
noreover liable at ali times to be impeach
ed arid removed from office for the fmallelt
instance of mal-adminiftration ?
Had Charles 11. of England expected to
be caded to account for hiscondutt, would
he ever have ventured to betray the inter -
efts of Britain, by felling Dunkirk to the
: 1 rench, for less than the value of the very
stores and ammunition contained in its ma
gazines at the time of its firrrender ? had
George 111. been liable to impeachment,
would he have dared, in opposition to the
wiflies of a majority of his lubjefts, to in
volve Britain and America in all the hor
rors of a civil war?-No: neither ofthenV
would have been so fooLhardy. But the
misfortune is, that kings, who are vested
with sovereign power for 999 years if they
happen to live so long, area fort of poldicol
At/ieijts, who, not expecting an
ox 1 etribution, think themselves entitled to
aa 4* they gleafe, especially as it is wellknown, that " kings can do no torot>g n —
Whereas the man, who if entrusted vvitl
power only for a. Short time, and win
knows that he is Habit to do wrong, rouil
firmly believe in a future (late, where hi
will be rewarded with praise or impeach
ment, according to his deeds : and by fuel
belief, he will regulate his conduct.
When the candid, honed American con
templates the enormous abuses, that have
invariably attended hereditary power ir
every country of the world : when he re
flects, that all the evils, attendant on tin
election of a chief magistrate, are obviatec
by our happy constitution, whilst all the be
nefits are secured to us ; he cannot but ac
knowledge, that our form oi" government
is infinitely superior to any that has evei
yet been eftablilhed in the known world.
It mnft therefore be his ardent wish tc
guard it agaialt all encroachments or inno
vations ; and he ought to be cautious how
lie gives ear to the doctrines of any man
who recommends alterations in ir, excepl
for the fple purpose of erecting, if poiiible.
still Stronger bulwarks to Secure the liber
ties of the people, not only from actual dan
ger, but even from the very appearance oi
p pollibility of it.
CHARLESTON, July 5.
Yesterday being the anniversary of the
Independence of America, the fame wasob
fdrvecl with the usual demonflrations oJ
joy. The day commenced with a discharge
of cannon from the incorporated battalior
of artillery, and a peal from the bells of St.
Michael's church. About five A. M. the
different uniform corps and militia parad
ed to the State House, from whence a de
tachment of the Charleston cadets marcher
to Mrs. Jamefon's, where they' were pre
sented with an elegant Stand of colours,
finifhed by the young ladies of that Semina
ry,, upon which occaSion, lieutenant Mitch
ell, delivered a short, but well adapted ad
dress. The Poreftevs, at the fame time re
ceived a like favor from the young ladies
at Mrs. Colco';k's—From the parade thdj
marched a short wav from town, where
they were reviewed by the hon. General
Pinckney, Moultrie, Read, See. The uni
form corps furpafTed the mod Sanguine ex
pectations. About eleven, the Cincinnati
marched to church, where an oration was
delivered, Suitable to the occasion, by
Charles Lining, Esq. one of the members.
A nlunber of companies dined together,
and the day concluded with that hilarity
and regularity for which the citizens ol
Charleston have ever been remarked.
NEW-YORK, July 20.
Yesterday arrived in this city, his Excel
lency Mr. Hammond, the Britifn AmbafTa
dor, from Philadelphia.
A letter from England fays, " The affaf
fniation of the king of Sweden has struck
an alarm into several European Sovereigns,
almost incredible 5 and the sportive Spirit
of the times Seems difpoled to jest a - good
deal with royal credulity. The EmpreSs
of all the Ruffias has Shut herfelf up in the
interior of her palace—the king of Pruflia
has been nearly mad in consequence of a
Roflecrufian vision. The Stacltholder of
Holland is opposed by his own son, and re
ceives daily letters not to appear at such
and such places, if he values his life ; and
even our own dear king, whom God long
preserve \Cith all his faults, has received a
letter warning him not to go to the Totten
ham-street concert,for there were Jacobins even
in England."
That France will maintain its consti
tution we have not a doubt. The nation
mult be annihilated before kings can ex
tinguish the Sacred flame. They cannot
make them unlearn their knowledge. The
Frenchmay be beaten for want of disci
pline; they may be made rafli and intem
perate by malignant Suggestions ; they may
be driven to the last ditch by force or treach
ery, but the lalt man of twenty-four milli
ons, who has tasted of the cup of liberty,
will not return to his ancient potion."
Yesterday upwards ot two hundred
friends to liberty in this city, gave an ele
gant entertainment at the city tavern, to
the hon. John Jay, chief justice of the
k United State;-, at which several gentiemen,
as well from the city as the country, who
•were particularly inviteN, were all pre
sent.
It was thefeaft of freedom and friend
ship—-each eye sparkled with pleasure, in
beholding the diltinguifhed patriot, whom a
free people had lately honored with their
Suffrages—while an honest indignation rose
in every bosom, when the thought occur
red, of the vile attempt to rob him of that
honor to which those fufFrages entitled
him.
A band of music played at intervals dur
ing the entertainment, and the following
toasts were drank under a discharge of can
jiou, accompanied by the shouts and huz
zas of the people.
[Here follow 15 /00/Zs. ]
Mr. Jay then gave the following toast.
May the people always refpeft them
selves, and remember what they owe to
folterity.
Mr. Jay then retired, faying, gentlemen,
I Willi to you a|l prosperity and
He was escorted to hi.-, houle by a com
mittee.
Volunteer.
After Mr. Jay had retired the company
drank.
JOHN JAY, GOVERNOR BY THE
VOICE OF THE PEOPLE THREE
CHEERS.
When the committee returned,tlje whole
company broke up, and went in pioceflion
to Mr. Jay's houSe ; and after giving him
three cheers, they diiperfed.
PHILADELPHIA.
JULY 25, 1792.
The latest advices received from France
are by the way of Boston. These slate thai
Ihe armies of France had not come to any
engagement (incethe repulse from Tournay
and Mons; the failure of which had pre
vented M. de la Fayette's army from com
mencing its operations. His army (Sa>
these accounts) is under the bell discipline,
and they request those who have aflaffinat
ed General Dillon, may be brought to pu
nifliment. Part of three regiments of ca
valry have deserted. They put great con
fidence in the national guards, and each
corps arc burning with delij-e to diftinguift
thenifelves. They fay that Ofrend is to be
garrisoned by Dutch troops, and An vers b)
Prussian, and that the king of Prussia hat
declared himfelf against the French nation,
and had lent into Auftriau Flanders 42,00 c
men, and had set oft'for Colbert. Private
periods had demanded permillion to lit out
privateers from Oftend, which was refufec
them by which it appears that the merchanl
(hips would not be interrupted by either
party ; in consequence the premium of in
surance in France and in England was the
fame as before the war.
" The canvaflers of the vetes for govern
or (fays a letter from New-York) have
kindled a flame which will not be soon ex
tinguiflied. The people are forming com
mittees in every county, and mean to pe
tition the legillature for redress."
Advices from Cape Francois, and other
parts of French HiSpaiiiola, to the beginning
of July, are as unfavorable as ever. A Spi
rit of discord seems to have taken pofleflioi
of all descriptions of people, which threa
tens, we may fay has nearly ensured the
total ruin of the colony. The people of
Port-au-Prince, Cape Nichola Mole, and
Port Jeremie, have refufed to accept the
decree of the National Alfembly, granting
certain privileges to the mulattoes and free
negroes. At Port-au-Prince, they fitted
out five cruisers, to prevent Supplies from
being carried into any of the out-ports ;
they likewise feut a twenty gun ship, and
four Smaller veflels, armed, to the Mole, to
bring down a general to command them.
He accordingly embarked with 300 volun
teers, joo stand of arms, and- every thing in
proportion. On his way down he was ta
ken by a 74 gun ship, and carried into St.
Marc, with one of the (loops ; the other
three escaped. The day after, the gover
nor of Hifpaniola arrived from the Cape,
with another 74 gun ship ai;d a frigate,
when the captive-general, Borel, was or
dered into close confinement, and all his
men. The governor then received on board
400 volunteers of St. Marc, and on the 22c!
inflant, failed for Port-au-Prinee, with the
two 74 gun (hips, a frigate, and a 20 gun
fliip ; at the fame time 2000 mulattoes
marched down upon the back of Port-au-
Prince, with the French Commillioner,
who had arrived from France, a white
general, and a commander in chief of the
mulattoes, in order to enforce the decree.
On the 24th, in the afternoon, was heard a
very heavy cannonading, for about two
hours,fuppofed to be at Port-au-Prince,from
which it was probable that a total destruc
tion of the remains of that town had taken
place.
" A considerable additional number of
labourers (Says a Virginia paper) will be
wanted at the city of Wafiiington, and the
little falls of the Potowmack. It was ex,
pefted the foundation of the capitol and
President's palace would be entered on by
thefirflday of next month, and prosecuted
with great activity. The cut at the little
falls is nearly dug out, and every effort
will be made to get it walled ; and the ri
ver improved to the great falls this season,
So that by Shifting the loadj at tlfe great and
little falls, there~\dllf)y next spring be r.u
occalion for wyggdTMug the produce down
the Potowmack-
According to '
Sachem, Mr. Gardiner, has -
cept the Rev. Mr. Thayer's cliaßßP' to
theological diSputation, ac leal! ifin-ing the
preSent SeaSon ; alledging Several important
reaSons for declining it.—lt is obServable
that Mr. G. continues obstinate in under
valuing the fathersofthe church,particular
ly St. Jerom and St. Anguftin. "We are
not uSed, nor do we mean, (Says lie) to a
buSe language, to caH good evil, or evil
good ; we connot, therefore, call an Ojjlrr
an (Jrap<;c ; but if a filly, or an impudent fel
low will publish a notorious falfily to the
woMd, we will Speak the truth and Say, he
is a liar, although mother church mav admit
him to Be a Saint-, and, therefore, when
Jam: has the foolifh impudence to Say the
I.or<! sent two Alltel", to flagellate him for
Undying Cicero or Virgil, the voice of truth
compels us to fay, he lies."
On the 6th instant a man named William
Johnlton was executed near Winchester,
iii Frederick county, Virginia, for horse
Healing. He corifeffed Ire had followed the
]-r:i£licfc Upwards of twenty years. This
manjias left a number of children to la
ment the unhappy consequence ofdilhoneft
pttrfuits.—John Crane was executed at the
lame time for the murder of \braham Van
Home.—Jofhila Abbott, of Berwick, Maf
fachnfetts, was condemned to futfer death,
at .the late supreme court in that Hate, for
the murder of Moses Gubtail.—Cnbtail in
consequence of being refufed the loan of a
flax brake,uttered a number of provoking
expreflions and threats of cuffing, &c. which
to irritated Abbot as to induce him to pur
ine Gubtail with a piece of ail ox-fed, three
or four inches thick at the largelt end.
With this he (truck Gubtail on the head
and knocked him down ; he however gol
up, and alter utterin.. another volley of a
bnle, went home. Within halfail hourht
loltthe use of his<Jeft arm, then of hi; le!'i
leg .after that of his right leg, and ther
bee inie I'peechlefs, and expired ill 36 hour:
after the ltroke was given.—Abbot is be
tween 60 and 70 years of age, and has ?
wife and fix children.
The ship Ann, is arrived at Boston fron:
Dunkirk, which place (he left the 29th ol
May. Information has been received bj
his velfel, " that no material engagement
had taken place since General Dillon' , de
feat ; that several persons, accessary to hi•
leath,are held for trial, audit wasexpectec
ivould fuffer, as it was generally believet
:he suspicion of his treachery is ground
less—That the inhuman massacre of this of
:icer was much reprobated, and had great!)
discouraged the other officers, who fear t
limilar late as they cannot restrain the li
tentioufnefsof the fokliery. That affairs
did not wear the 1110 ft pleasant appearance;
And that it was the prevailing opinion, ai
Dunkirk, that 110 further attempts woulc
ae made to enter the Emperor's domini
ons, but make it an object to prevent the in
»alionof France."
[Ft cm Albany.]
The directors of the western and north
;rn inland lock-navigation are fummonet
to meet in this city on the 27th instant, for
the purpose of commencing their opera
tions immediately.
As refpefts the western, it is confidently
expected some important part of the canal;
ivill be accomplished this season. The pre
mailing idea now is, that instead of 10 ) ears
this .great and important Work will be ac
complished in three or four years. It is
iippofed by spirited active operations, that
the work will be better and cheaper done
in four years than in ten; and it certainly
will be greatly to the benefit of the proprie
;ors.
The legislature having granted 300 CI. to
.mild a bridge over the Sprouts of the Mo-
Hawk river, whenever the sum of ioool.
Ihould be fubferibed and paid.—A fubferip
.ion for this purpose is going forward with
piritin this.city—we are told Gen. Schuy
er has fubferibed 2001. This bridge will
3e one of the longest in America, and will
:>pen a dire£t communicatic.n to a very ex
tensive country, progreding fact into fettle
inents, in the north-weft part of this state.
Albany being fortunately situated at the
head of the navigation of one of the finelt
rivers in America—once this bridge and
the canals are completed, it mult incrcafe
with an unexampled rapidity.
The Bank of Albany will commence its
operations this week; there can be 110
iloubt but it will tend to enliven and invi
gorate trade and manufactures, and above
ill to eltablilh a habit of punctuality.
Several French ifiands in the Weft-Indi
:s are said to be in a Hate of anarchy and
"onfufion, in consequence of attempts to
re-establish the old form of government.
Reports fay, that in Martinique a counter
revolution is absolutely effected, and that
several of the leading patriots in Gauda
luupe, had escaped with difficulty to odier
I (lands.
I lie Prince of Conde, according to tlic
French gazettes, is to ast in the combination
agaiuft his country at the head of twenty
thoufimd forces, conlilting of emigrants
from France, and German recruits. ' The
relt of the exiled family seem equally ini
mical, and if the report of the second at
tempted escape of the King fliould prove
true, we may fay with Mr."Gray,
" Weave the warp anil weave the woof
The winding (heel of Bourbon's race-
Give ample room and verge enough
The charaiSers of hell to trace."
T he Bolton Tontine is dissolved, and the
fund appropriated to the Union Bank, a
new inflitution incorporated by the legisla
ture of MafTachufetts at their late fellion.
Sometime since we briefly mentioned a
Brig being boarded off the coafy of North-
Carolina, and afterwards brought into the
Chefapeak, with only a woman on board.
The Crew, who had left the Brig off Ocra
cock bar, and escaped to thefliorc have since
been apprehended and committed
bern jail. It appears from their examina
tion that the failed from Savannah on
[th- roth of Jiuie, bound to BourdeauK.
On the lSth'at night they killed the captain
and mate, and threw them overboard': on
| the ?2d. they discovered land, when the
murderers took to the boat and rowed on
Ihore ; soon after which, they wi re appre
hended, upon information of fonie of their
companions wjio had been (worn to secrecy.
The Bn>; was named Le Bailli de Suffrein"
Capt. Clairet.
1 here are a few, who seem greatly alarm .
ed at an idea that has been lately started rf
cjlablijhng conjlitutionalfccictics in every part or
tlie United States, lor the purpose of
watching over the rights of the people, and
giving an earlv alarm in cafe of govern
mental encroachments thereupon! Y e t
inch focicties seem absolutely neceflary in
every country, where the people wifli to
preserve an uncorrupted legijlation■ It is a true
laying, that what is every man's bvfinefj soon be
comes no mail's bufwefs; and those who are not
alarmed at finall encroachments do not
conlider that the reign of tyranny in all the
eahern world has been molt cautiouj'y gra
dual in its approaches. The people under
every new eltabliflied government, and freih
from a revolution, may be compared to a
company of men (landing on a bar or ihoal,
which has become dry by the ebbing of the
lea. They, in general, pay no attention to
the return of the Hood, and when it has
(welled so far as to cover only their feet,
or ancles, they still remain as thoughtless
as ever, and are sure in a few hours to be
overwhelmed fathoms deep, unless there
are some friendly monitors, who will give
them notice of their danger before it be too
late.—And this, in governments, is the part
of those focicties denominated Friends of the.
people.
A writer in a New-York paper propos
es the following alterations in the constitu
tion of that state ro prevent eleftioa-Ikiga
tions in future. First, That the govern
or and lieutenant governor ought to be e
lefled for only three years, and at the expi
rationof the said term of three years, the
person holding either of the said offices
then to be difqualified for holding the fame
offices for the next three succeeding years.
That no governor or lieute
nant governor fliall have a feat or vote in
the council of appointment. This will pre
vent any undue influence or creation of
party.
'I hirdly. The governor to commission
ftich qs the council of appointment may
choose to offer.
Fourthly. That no (lieritf fliall be elect
ed for more than one year, and then to be
incapable of holding the office for four years
succeeding.
Fifthly. The council of appointment to
conlift of one member from each -county in
the state, and they to choose their preiident,
and president pro-tempore, at the meeting
of the legiUatures
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERFATIOXS,
Jui.Y, <792.
D. II liar. Tker.llVind. IVea'.h.
Wednesday, n. 5 30. 1 72 IW, 1 Fair
~ 30. s 88 JN. Jo.
Thurjday, 12. 6 30. ic 71 S. W. Fair.
2 30. 1 86 do. 1 do.
Friday,. 13, 6 30. o 73 S. W7Cltudy.
2 go. O 82 tlo. 1 110.
Saturday, 14. 6 :> O , 0 73 ,Cloudy.
2 gq. 1 86 do- -lair.
Sunday, 15. 6 30. j 68 N. Fair.
- 30. 1 86 S. \V. do.
Monday, 16. 6 go. 74 s.s.w. Rain.
~ 29. 95 90 do. Fair.
Tucjday, 17. 6 29. SC. 75 S. VV. 1-ain.
2 29. 9 80 w.s.wlCloudy.
Wedhefday, 18. 6 qo. o 68 N. lair
-2I 30. o 8, do. do.
Thurjday, 19. 6 29.95 67 ]\f. F.J/'W.
2' 21;. 9 8j v.M.E.j do.
Friday, 20. 6, 29.75 71 S. W. Fair.
21 29. 8 86 W. do.
Saturday, 21. 61 29. 9 70 N. Cloudy.
2' 29. 95 75 N.W. tlo.
Sunday 22. 6: 30.07 66 Calm. Fair.
2! 30.05 80 S. W cloudy.
Monday, 23. 6 30. 1 67 S. K. cloudy.
• 2 1 30. 1 70 N.E. do.
Tuesday, 24. 6. 30. o 63 N. E. \Rain.
2 29. 95 66 do- \Cloudy_
George Town, June 2, 1792.
A NUMBER of LOTS in every lituation
which may bedefired in the city of Wash-
Migron, will be offered for sale, by the Commis
sioners on Monday the Bth day of O&ober next.
One fourth part of the purchase money to be
paid down, the residue in thiee equal annual pay
ments, with yearly interest on the whole princi
pal unpaid. JOHN M. GANTT.
Clerk to the Commiflioners.
July 25.
11 ■ 1 1 ■ 1 1 r*
TO BE LET,
A DWELLING HOUSE, containing
three rooms, with a kitchen, cellar,
and garret, in North Sixth-street. To be
let for live months, upon very reasonable
terms, and when that time is expired may
be had from the landlord.—Apply to My.
BafcherotNo. 96, North Eleventh-flreet.
Ju'y 25, g t,[Continuation and cmdufen of forms, &c. refrrcd
to in the Fw oh PaUnl Law.J
No. 111.
'Turner and form to be observed in
JL tiaoslcrring a Brevet of Invention.
No. department of this
day of the month of 179 Mr. N.
or MelTieuts N. N. has presented, ortheyhave
presented to our Secretary's office, to require the
legilletir.g of a conveyance that they have, or
that has been made to iVIr.N- or Messieurs N.N.
by . n ast of before Mr. N. notary
of the whole, or of part of the brevet of inven
tion, granted the for the term of j or
10 or 15 years for the reasons (here (ball follow
an explanation of the objetU of the brevet)
which regillcring we have granted to him, or
them; and he has, or they have paid us the sum
of for the duties, as fixed in the
cufiom-houfe, annexed to the iulcs of
upon the law of the 7th Januaiy 1791. And
the (aid Mr. N. or Meflicurs N. N. have figneil
with us.
Done at of year
Signed, N N N .
N. IV.
Cu'ftoms which are to be paid to the Dircftor ol
Inventions Ltvrcs,
Tax of a brevet for 5 yearj 30c
Do. do. 10 do. Bcc
Do. do. lj do. tjL'C
Do. for ordering a brevpt £C
Certificate for perfecting, alteringand adding '2}
Right of prolonging a brevet (oc
Jtegitlering do. do. 1"
Transtcning all or part of a brevet lS
Searching and communicating of a descrip
tion - - l-
Customs to the Seccetary's office of the de
partment.
Placing the verbal process of a description,
or of perfecting, changing and adding of
all the pieces relating the whole expenle 12
For reg.llering a conveyance of a brevet,
or part of a brevet, for communicating ol
a oajalogue of inventions, and the light
ol search - "
The National Afiembly decree the following
change ffi til take place 111 the law of the 7111 Ja
nuaiy 1791.
To the 10th article has been fubflituteci thi:
new alteration. The inventor ihall be obliged,
to obtain the f.iid patents, to address hiinfelf tc
the directory of his department, who (hall prole
cute the object. The patent (hall be sent to tht;
directory, and beth? e regiflered, and there (hal
at the fame time be given advice of 11 by the mi
niftet of the interior to the direciu.iesol he othct
depaitments.
The all inbly have decreed ih?fuppreJjion ol
the following words—
Article 12th—" In giving good and Sufficient
bail, re quiting the seizing the objects counter
feited."
Article 13th—" After which feizuie {hall
have taken place."
Given and ordered to all tribunals, govern
ments, corporations, that these prefects they (hall
tranfciibe on their regiflers, read, publilh, poll in
their refpeftive jurifdiftions and departments,
and execute them as the law of the realm.
In faith of which, we have signed, 2nd had
counteifigned the said prcfents : to which
w have had put the seal of the State. At
Paris the 25th of May, in the year 1791,
and 18th of our reign.
Signed LOUIS.
Lower,
M.L.F.Du Port.
And sealed with the seal ps the State —Certi-
fied conformable to the original.
From a late Dublin Paper.
PERPETUAL MOTION.
(on philosophical PRINCIPLES.)
The following is an account of the Piece of Me
chanism which has so much excited public cu
riosity ; the fubflance ot which was received
from the inventor.
THE POWER
Is at present applied to the machinery of aclock.
This clock, unconnected with the power, is cal
culated to go for two years without winding up,
by the weight of a fiagle pound, that gives mo
tion to a pendulum of twenty pounds, which
moves through the space of 518,400 inches
in 24 hour', while the small maintaining weight
(a (ingle pound) descends only 1- 10th of an inch.
The internal-work of the clock consists of three
wheels. In order that the superiority of this
movement may be obvious to every understand
ing, as well as tothofe t;onverfant with the more
difficult parts of mechanics, it is neceflVy to men
tion, that the common eight-day clock requires
a weight of 14 pounds, when this only requires
a weight of one ; is wound up once in eight days,
and moves a pendulum of three pounds and an
half, where this moves one of twenty, and is
wound up only once in two years.
In 24 hours, the maintaining weight of the
common clock descends lix inches —in this, it
descends only l-loth of one inch
The lead weight which we at present recollect to
have heard ofbeing uLd by thefirft artill in Lon
don's j or 6 pounds,where this requires only 1,
in consequence of the diminution ol friction. So
far it has been thought necelfary to describe this
clock, in comparison with the common one.
We now come to that part to which extraor
dinary merit is to be alcribed.—The faculty of
winding itlelf up, without the inteivcntion ol
human power. This faculty is derived from the
weight of the aunofphcie, an si can never ccafe
Villi ihcprovifors after mentioned) while the
machine lasts, and while a column of air either
loses or gains one 150 th part of its common
wcii'ht, five times in the fpacc of two years ;
the time which the clock. goes without requiting
aflillance. Or in other words, as long as tiie
change of t!ie weight of the .nr, 5 times in the
space of two years, lhall be such as to cause the
mercury either to afccnd or fall 2-loth's of an
inch in the Barometer, above or below its mean
height. ,
The wearing out of wheels, or of any kind 01
machinery, by fritlion, can never be prevented.
Accordingly, it has never been required in the
Jifcovery of a Perpetual Motion, It is there
"ore fufficient, on that lubjetf, to lay, that tht
jrefent machine, upon a t.nr companion of it:
ritlion with that of the common clock, woult
probably move for live c.lll utr s a [niiod lui
ticient 'or any purpose that can be required..
From late Paris papers.
Situation of lht Frtiiih finances.
Economy, fays an aucient author, is <
revenue ; order is the baiis of econo
my ; calculation is the balis of order
then let 11 calculate and compare wiha'
we. owe with what we have, Each pot
t'ioil of our debt Ihonhl be anKvered by .
particular resource. It will be seen thai
:his comparison will not prove To difadv.nl
rageous to 11s as it is altecled to be believ
ed, and as it is laid to be.
The National debt is divilible in three
'arts. .
1 ft. The debt in annuities, perpetual ant
for life.
Confining in annual interest on irre
leemable capitals, which are as fol
low :
Perpetual rents, 76,845000
Annuities, 102,255,000
[ntereit on debts of cities, 6,000,000
Ecclesiastical pensions. 66,000,cc0
Gratuities and peniions. 25.291 ,oco
276,391,000 liv.
The receipt of public contributions i>
infwerable for the payment of this sum.
uid the faith of the nation is pledged foi
its regular discharge. The engagement
which gurantees this debt is as sacred a
[he constitution of which it is a part. K<:
lower has a right to destroy the obligation.
2d. The debt in affignats.
The emillion of affignats on the ifl ol
March, amounted to, 1,950,000,000. De
luding the amount of affignats burnt, ny
:o that period, there remained in circula
tion 1,531, coo, coo.
The evidences of this debt are, in the
lame of the law, scattered among the
>oorer class, and accumulated in the cof
fers of the wealthy. Every man with one
uindred pence of afEgnats in his posit Ifion
s a creditor of the nation ; on the value o:
this paper, the public fafety depends ; a:.i
he public domains are pledged to redeem
t. The value of the public domains, is —
1,244,000 ; from which must be deduclec
he sum paid on their value, which wa:
employed to redeem the amount ot allig
lats burnt. The national domains, there
fore, now may be ellimatedas a relourct
if—1,832,000,000. Almost the i'
herefore mortgaged lor the redemptioi
if affignats ftili in circulation. Ihe re
mainder amounts to a sum of upwards o,
100,000,000 unappropriated, and whicf
nay be set a part for the extraordinary ex
lenditnres of this year, (1792.)
3d . The debt named exigible f demand
ible] because it is redeemable either now
ir at fixed periods.
'oi tion already liquidated 192,000,00 c
To be liquidated , gt7,ooo,oo(
Yt fixed periods 419,000,00 c
Total, 1,528,000,0 cc
The resources for the payment of thi:
Vim are certain : They conlifl of
. 4,500,000 acres of national
wood;, efti mated at 1,350,000,00 c
:. Salt-works, estimated at 50,000,00 c
The sum expected from
the re-sale of national do
mai lis engaged ' 00,000,00 c
4. Sundry credits ioo,oco.ccc
Total sum responsible 1600,000,00 c
Thus the debts exigible paid, a furplusol
up v. ards of So,coo,oco would itill remain-
In the number of these resources, the re
ceipt of arrears of taxes is not included.
Nor the sequestration of the property o:
emigrants.
Nor what may soon be saved by the re
du&ion of public expenditures.
AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft Seflion,begun and held at the city ol
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania,
on Monday the twenty-fourth of OtSlober, out
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT rcfpcUtng the Government of the Ter
ritories of the United States North Wejl qnc
South oj tke River Ohio.
EE it enatted by the Senate and House of Re
presentatives of the United States of America,
in Ccngrfs aJJlmbUd, That the hwsot the ten i-
torv north-weft of the river Ohio, tint have
been or hereafter may be cnatled by the gover
nor and judges thereof, (hall be printed underthe
diredlionof the secretary of state, and two hun
dred copies thereof, together with ten sets ot the
laws of the United States, (hall be delivered to
the said governor and judges, to' be dillnbuted
among the inhabitants tor their information, and
that a like number of the laws of the United
States shall be delivered to the governor and
judges of the territory south weft ot the rivei
Ohio.
And be it Jm ther enabled, That the governor
and judges or the territory north well of the river
Ohio shall be, and hereby are authorized to re
peal the'r laws by them made, whensoever the
lame may be found to be improper.
AM be it further enatfed, That the official du
ties of the fecreraries of the Faid territories shall
be under the control ot luch laws, as are or may
be in force in the f.nd territories.
And be it further entitled, That any one of the
fuprenie or lupcrior judges of ihe laid territo
ries, in the ablence of the other judges, lhall be
ind hereby is authorized to hold a court.
And be it further enaded, Thatf the fecrctary
;)f Hate, provide proper leals for the several and
refpe&ive public offices in the laid territories.
And be it further entitled, '1 hat the limitation
ict, passed by the governor and judges of the said
erritoiy, the twenty-eighth day of December,one
.houfand leven hundred and eighty be and
hereby is di(approved.
And be it further enaded, That the expenfc:
'nrun ed by John Cleves Symmes and George
Turner, two of the judges ot the laid territory,
n lending an exprel's, and in purchasing a boal
:o go the circuit, in the year one thousand fever
nindred and ninety, lhall be liquidated by the
){liccrs of the treasury, and paid out of the trea
sury of the United States.
Approved by the President, May Bth, 1792.
An ACT for making Cowpcnfaticns to the commif
mi (/loners of Loans for extraordinary expences.
BE it enabled by the Senate and Houft
of Representatives of the United States
>f America in Congress assembled, That the
:ommifii6ners of loans 111 the several slates lhall
)e allowed, in the settlement of their accounts,
übh sums as lhall appear to have been neceflari
y expended by them in the purchale of liatiou
iry for the use of their several offices, and alfc
or the hire of cleiks to assist in executing the
duties of their relpeftive offices, from the firll
iav of Otlober lad, until the firft day of March
me thousand seven hundred and ninety-three.
Approved by the Prefident,May Bth. 1792.
To be published by Subscription,
THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER.
OR
Proceedings of the Old Congress,
Troiii their firll Meeting in September 1774-,
to their final diffolutioii in March 1789,
COMPRISING at full length, every impor
tant resolution, order, address, declaration;
See. contained in the thirteen volumes of then
loornals —a concjfe summary of the less interest
mg parts, —an alphabetical lift of appointments,
promotions an 3 reflations —acollettive viewin
the public expenditures, &c. &c.—the whole in
tended to serve as a lacisladtory substitute tor the
3rig in a I journals, which are now out of print, ani
of which the entire lubltance, un incumbered with
L'fficial formalities and repetitions, will here bf
men in about one fourth of their present bulk;
accompanied with one complete general Index
To which will be added, a copious and valuable
:olle£tion of
ORIGINAL STATE PAPERS,
from the Records and Files of Congress,
Containing (either verbatim,or in abftradT
as the cases may severally require) such intereft
ng pieces referred to in the journals, as may with
propriety be permitted to be made public, viz.
Letters from the different officers employed ir
:he public service during the I.«te war—intercept
ed letters of the enemy—communications from
jovernors, state legislatures, conventions, anc
:ommittees—difpatches from agents and com
niflioners— reports of committee;
>f Congress j and various other authentic docu
nents, tending to throw a light on the important
events, to which America owes her present inde
pendence.
In the course of the work, will be introduced,
in their proper places, such parts of the
SECRET JOURNALS,
as no longer require secrecy.
As soon as 500 copies ate fubferibed for, the
work to press, to'be delivered to iub-
of 304 o&avo pages each,
O m ar, in blue boards. The Sub
will net be required- for the fi-rii
the publication is begun j and
on the delivery of each number, half a dollar wil
be expected in advance fjr the succeeding one.
To non-fubferibers, the price will be raised.
Suescp. 1 ption & will be received prin
cipal booksellers, throughout the Union, and b\
the Editor.'
JOHN CAREY.
r.o. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
*,* Three handsome Editions of the Lam
of the United States for /'ale at this ojfic
(No. 209 Mar Let Jlreet) in folio and oSa
•vo, either full or half bound— N.B. Th,
Laws of the lafl SrJJion, in oSavo only, >"jy
be hadfrfaratt, prui.tbree eighths * diUar,
Society for eft ail)fling Ujtful Manufactures,
PROPOSALS to Contract for the following
purposes, will be received at New-York by
Nicholas Low, at New-Ark by Eliiha Boudinot,
at New-Brunt'vvick by John Bayard, and at Phi
ladelphia, by Charles Pettit—viz :
111. To cut a canal from the river Paflaick,
beginning at a point near a llation, where stands a
ttake marked No. i, and continuing thence to
the brink of a .precipice at or near a rock marked
No. 3. This canal mult V thirr y fcet wide ' and
mud be funk to a level with the furface of the wa- •
ter in the driest season.
2d. To eared flood-gates in the said canal near
the brink of the precipice.
3d. To ered a dam on the river Paflaick above
the Great Falls, and below the place of the canai.
Ti,e dam to be foui feet above the level of the
fjiiace of the water at the driest season.
4th. To ered a dry wall across a gully adjacent
to ihe abovementioned precipice, in a diredioa
from the said llation No, 3, to another station be
ing a ltak marked No. 6, on or near the summit
of a hill, extendiug from theone to the other j
and to make a wooden trough upoh the laid wall
sixteen feet wide by seven feet deep.
sth.To extend a trough of the lame .
from the laid station No. 6, to another station
being a tree marked No. 7, with a-dry wall on
one lide, thewhple length thereof,of the thicknela
Df fix feet,
6th. T# ered at the town of Paterfon, near
ihe Falls of the Paflaick, a stone building, fifty
live feet long by thirty-two feet wide, tour stories
high,exclulive of a cellar the whole len&tfy thereof.
7th. Tu'ered anotherfeone building at the said
town of Paterfon, seventy-eight feet long, by
thirty-one feet wide, three stories high, exclusive
of a cellar the whole length thereof.
Btli. To ered another stone building at the laid
Lwn of Paterfon, thirty-eight leet long bv twen
w-feven feet wide, two stories high> exclusive 01 a
itllar the whole length thereof.
9th. To ered another stone building Ijxty-eiglit
feet long by thirty fix feet wide, two stories high,
ixclufive of a cellar the whole length thereof.
loth. To ered fifty houses of stone or wood*
as may be afterwards determined, each twenty
four feet long by eighteen feet wide, in he-ghc
from the lower "floor to the plate twelve feet, with
Stellar and a garret. Two houses to be un
der one roof, with a party wall. Ihe proposals
i/villfpecify severally the rates at which these build
ings will be undertaken in flone and in wood.
Descriptive plans of the feverai objects above
Specified, No. 2, 3, 4, 5» 7» l 0» ma y
seen in the polTeflion of Nicholas Low at New
ark, Eliiha Boudinot, at New-Aik, John Bay
ard, at New-Brunfwick, Charles Pettit, at Phila
delphia and William Hall at the said town 01 Pa
terfon. The said William Hall will give luch
feipl a nations as may be neceflary.
A descriptive plan of the building above fpecified
No. 6, may be seen in the polfeflion ol the four
lirft above mentioned persons and of Thomas
Marshall, at the town of Paterfon who will give
such explanations as may be necelfary.
A descriptive plan of the buiiding above fpecified
No* 9, may be seen in the pofleflion of the tour
firft abovementioned persons, and of V/iliiam
Pearce at the town of Paterfon, who will give such
explanations a 6 may 6e neceflary.
All materials are to be found, brought ,to the
Tpot, and ereded bv the contractors, to whom li
berty will be granted under certain reftridions to
use the (tones or timber which may be on the
ands of the society.
The proposals may comprehend either the
a hole or any one or more of the foregoing objeds.
The proposers may accompany their proposals by
the suggestion of any other methods which ftiall
>ccur to them for conftruding a competent wall
lcrofs the gully from station No. 3, to station No.
j j and for conveying the water from thence to
Nation No 7, and the terms upon which they may
je disposed to contract according to thole
All the works for conveying the water mult be
warranted for seven years.
Proposals mult be in writing, and under seal
iddrefled to the society for establishing uleiui mi
-1 utadures } and delivered to one of the laid per
ons firft mentioned, on or betore the twenty lixih
)f July initant.
July 10. 4"*
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Subscriber has it in contemplation foen
to decline his present bufineft — and having on
land a considerable quantity of fuperfioe lecond
md elastic cloths, together with a variety oi other
u tides in his way, piopofes to fell them at the
ollowing reduced pees, VIZ,
Belt Superfine navy blue 34/.
Ditto, ditto. Scarlet 36/,
Common colours fuperfine 32/.
Elaltic stripes *jf*
London tuft* and white caflimers 15/6.
Ditto, coloured do. 15 C,
York (hi re do. do. J 3/6*
Striped toilenets 14/•
Rattinets 3>J»
Striped Nankeens : 3/4.
A variety ofwaifteoat shapes proportionably low
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London best silk hose, from 22/6. to 24/.
The above goods have been mostly imported from
one of the firft mercantile houses in London, and
.•re of an equal quality o any imported intoAmc
ricaj they will be fold per piece or fm iller quantity
s may best suit the purchafcrs , by the public*
most humble servant, JOHN SHEPHERD.
perfen dilpofed to puichajfe the whola
of the above stock, may a!fo have on leafonable
terms his present dwelling house together with
the store, a more eligible lituation for business in
the tailor's line is not to be found in this city.
The advantage <?f this business being.so well efta
blilhed by the proprietor will be very grat, aa<l
from well known fads, needs no comment.
A lease offix years may be had of the house..
May 2aw.tf.
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE NO. 209, HIGH-STREET*
NEAR FIFTH-STREET,
PUIfcAPELPHIA#