Vol. I.
authentic.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft Ssffion,begun and held at the city of
Philadelphia, in the State of Penr/.ylvama,
sr. Monday the twenty-fourth of O&ober, oru
thousand lcven hundred and nir.ety-oue.
yf,. ACT to alter the thr.e fir tbt next annual
Meeting of Corgrefs.
~i ~i E ;> ena&cd by the Senate and Ihuft of F.e
pvcientatives of tit United State: oj strteruc,
u i'oitPi S afar, bled, 'i hat after the a-joutntoo.
, , liic present liiTmn, the next annual meet,,* oi
Congiels f»ail be on the fitft Monday m Nuyem-
by the President May $tb, 1792.
An ACT concerning the Outlet on Spirits 'jiftlled
tie United States.
TiE it enacted by tic Senate and Hcuff "f Repri
jh fatatioet »/ the United States of A:.: crua ir.
C-r'rtH c;.emt,lti, That from and alter the
hit day Of J ui'.e next, the r refent dunes upon
("pijits di (tilled within the Unitid btates, and on
(tills fliail ceale, and that in. heu tl>e . re ° f ' ' J P° n
all spirits which after the fatd day lhall be diltil
led uithin the United States wholly or inpa.t
from moUfles, fu-ar or olhcl foreign matenals,
there lhall be paid the dunes following, that is u
l3 For every gallon of those fplrits of thcfii ft class
of proof, ten cents ;--for every gallon of thole
fuiritscf the second class of pioot, eleven ,
for every gallon o. those fp.rit, of the third cU I,
of proof, twelve cents furevtry gallon of those
foirirs of the fourth clals 01. prool,lourtcen
c, „ts !—for every gallon of those Ipints 01 the
fifth class of proof, eighteen centsror every
pallon of those Ipirits of the sixth clals of proof,
twenty-five cents—And upon r.M (pint, which a,-
te r the u,i day ihall be ..iltilled within tue Unit
ed States from materials of the growth or produce
of the United Scares, in any city, town or village,
at aov diftillerv »t which there (hall be one pi
ftiortftttla wh,ch linply or together (hail be of the
caratity of four hundred gallons or upw.-ros, ittcrc
ihall be paid the duties following ihat is to lay ;
For everv gallon of those fpi.nts of the hilt clal:
of proof, feveu cents for every gallon of thole
spirits of the second clal; of proof, eight cents |
for everv gallon of those spirits of the third clals
cf proof, nine cents;—for every gallon of thole
spirits of the fourth clals of proof, eleven cents ,
for every gallon of those spirits of the fifth c,a s
of proof, thirteen centsfor every gallon of thuit
spirits of the filth class of proof, eighteen cents.
And upon (tills which after the said day iha.l bt
employed in distilling spirits from materials 01
the growth or produce of the United -
any other place than a ciry, town or village, or ai
any ciftillcry in a city, t-vn or village »f »h.ci,
there lhall be one or more ft 1 lis which iirtgly 11
only one, or together ir" more than one lhall be 01
Ids capacity than fcur hundred gallons, there llian
be paid the yearly duty of fiity-four cents tor eve
ry gallon English win'.; measure of the capacity 01
content of each and every ftich (till including th,
head thereof: Provided, That it .hall be at tin
option of the proprietor or poflellor of any lull
flill, infttad of the laid ye.v.ly du»y,_ either t.
r.av seven cents for eveiv gallon of spirits by him
or'her d'iflilled, or to pay at the rate of ten cent
.per gallon of the capacity for each and ever;
month of the employment of any uich 111 > an
in cafe the fa'itl proprietor cr po(T< flw lhall cleti
to pay either the laid rate of (even cents per ga,
h.n, of the spirits by him or her di'ftilled, cr th.
laid monthly rate of ten ccnts, according to th.
capacity of his or her ftiil or (tills, he or in
at'lhe time of making entry ol" his or her fliil pi
dills in manner herein after dirtied, ihall by
»riling under his or her hand, left at l ie olhet
of ioipeflion where such entry (hail be made,
notify the said election, and if the lam
(ball be to pay the said monthly rate of ten cents,
/hall demand a licence for the term of time, syce,
fying the day of commencing and the day of end
ing, during which he or (be (hall intend to wort
his or her (till or (tills, which licence (hall with
out delay or expeni'e to the said proprietor or poi
ftfi'or be granted, and (hail be fignca by 111 -
fuperviforc of the revenue and coun'erligned by
the officer a: uhofc ufikc application for the lam,
shall have been made. 11 din the c?fe of «n
election to pay the said monthly rate often cents,
it lhall not be lawful for any person by whom the
fame (hall have been made, to work his or hci
Hill or (tills, at any time, within the year froo
the date of his or her entry thereof, other
that for which a licence fiiall have been
j ranted, unlel's he or (be (hall have prcvioully
obtained another licence for such further time,
which upon like application (hall, and mav be
granted, in like manner, and it any such person
fiiall woik his or her ft ill or stills, contrary to the
direction or provision afjprefaid, he or (he (hall
forfeit and pay for every fufh ofience, two hun
dred dollars, And in every cafe in which any
proprietor or polTciTor of a still or stills (übjedl to
the payment of duty according to the capacity of
Inch (lill or stills, fnall not make cleftion to pay
iccordirg to one or the oth.cr of the alternatives
By P. FRENEAU: Published Mondays and Thursdays, ai Itfr.t,:-. Doli.ars per _
VI O N D A Y, June n, 179-
...furefnid ; or (hall not duly comply therewith,
; ;e orUic fnallbe liaMi to pay, ami lha!| pay the
Mid yivly rate of fifty four cetui lor every gallon
I the capacity or capacities of hib or her ltill or
be it furtktr ettaSed, That there be in
ach county comprehended within any diitrut,
.1 lead one office of inspection, at which every
•erlon having or keeping a still Hhl» ,"'' hin
uch county, shall between the lad day > > May,
„,d the ft,lt day of July in each year, make entry
such ltill or (fills, and at which every per: m-.,
>,io beinf a reliienc within the county, Ihjll
• tocure a (till or stills, or who removing within a
.uunty, (hall bring therein a (till or Hills, Oral!
.vuliin thirty days after (uch procuring or rem"-
jl, and berore he or (lie (hall begin to ule loch
; till or lt-ll') is»ke entry thereof. And every
■ntry beliJes delcribing each ltill and the capacity
Ciciejf, lhall (pecify the place where, and the
erlon in whose pollelnon it is, ano the purpole
,or which it is intended, as whether for (ale or
ile ill dift.lling; and in the cafe of removal,
ill all fpecity the place from which every such ftiil
hail have b-en brought.
And be it f urther taaßtJ, That every proprie
poll ,",vr oi a ltill lhall be jointly and le
\erally liable for the duty thereupon; and thai
ve.rv owner of land upon which any ltill (hall be
worked, lhall be liable for the duty thereupon,
unlets the fame (hall be worked by a lawful ant.
jona :ide tenant of the land ot an eltate, not leh
than lor the term of one year, or unless fuel
uwntr can make it appear, that the pofleffor ot ;
ur perlon by whom luch (till (hall have b-ei
worked, was duriug the whole time of woiknij;
the lame, a trefpalfer oi intruder on his land.
And be it further enaSed, That every officer ot
.nipection within wnofe (urvcy any diltillery ot
,:eijeva ur Iweet cordials, fubje£t to the pa) me n
.1 outv by ;he gallon ol the Ipirits diltilled therc
jn may be, lhall forbear to vilit or inspect (or a
(pace not exceeding two hours in each day, such
part of the faij diUillery as he may be required b>
me proprietor, poilellor or manager of luch dil
trliery to torhear to visit and infj cct, (or which
urpole it fli all be neceflary tor tne laid pic
pnetor, poficflor or manager, to give notice
in w.itingto the (aid officer, delcribing theiein
aiticulaily the part of such distillery, which a
lhall he his delire that the said officer may rVtbet
to vilit and iniped, anl fpecity the time ot eac.i
dav for which luch fotbearance lhall be d^lired.
And be it further cnali-.d, That it (hall be in
the difcietion of the secretary of the rrealury ti
regulate as well the marks, to be let up m i;u
calks, veC'els and packa-s containing diltillc
(pints, as the forms of the certificaus which aic
to accotr.; ..ny the fame, and that wh-'ii . r> ok
,>r veiiel ill which diltilled I] irits have been c;n
tair.ed, (hall have been em, tied ot its content,
it fiiall be lawful for the marks thereupon to be
effaced by, or in the pr.l'ence of an officer ot in
ipettion,' and if the said calk or veficl (hall after
wards be ul'ed for putting therein other ('pints,
the fame may be marked anew.
And be it further mailed, "Ihatinftead of a
notice of twenty-four hours heretofore lequireu
to be given of the intent to export diltilleJ spi
rits in order to the benefit of the diawbackof the
duties thereupon, fix hours (hall oe lufficient.
And be it further enailcei, That there be an a
batemcnt for leakage at trie rate of two per cent,
in every cafe in which the duty (hall be paj abu
ay the gallon of the spirits diltilled, to be (low
ed at the diltillery where such Ipirits lhall In
in ade.
And be it further enabled, That the office;
of inipe&ion within whole lurvcy any still ikal>
be, the duty whereupon is payable according t<.
the capacity of the still (hall identify by pro
.relTivi numbers and other proper marks, ever}
.uch still within his survey, and the dut) there
•jpon lhall operate as a fpecific lien upon the fan.
.'till.
And be it further cna£lid, That every dlftille.
if, and dealer in spirits, who may have in his oi
'.ier pcfieflion, distilled spirits not marked or cer
tified, pursuant to the att intituled " An are
galing after the last day of June next, the duties
heretofore laid upon distilled Ipirits imported from
• broad, and laying others in their stead, and also
ipon spirits distilled within the Unir»d States,
and for appropriating the fame," fiiall prior to
lie last day of Septembernnet,x t, report the fpiiits
n his or her pcfieliion, in writing at fomeoftict
>f infpedtion, to the end that luch spirits may b:
narked and certified as old stock. And that from
ind after the said last day of September next,
calks and vefTeli of the capacity of twenty gallons
md upwards, containing diliiiled spirits, which
hall be found in the poliefti n of any distiller r<s
.ealer in spirits, except at a distillery where the
ume were made, or in guing fiom one place to
mother, without being marked according to law,
>r without having a certificate from some proper
officer, fiiall be liable to leizure and foifocuie.
and that it lhall be the duty of the feyeral oflicers
of upon request of any dealer or distil
ler to take measures for the maiking of calks,
veflels and packages containing dibilled spirits,
and to furnifti such dealer or distiller, lice lro:n
expense, with certificates to accompany the lame 5
Provided, That it fliall not be incumbent upo.i
any such ofticer to mark or entity any culk, ves
sel or package which 10 have been belo:e
marked or cer;:I»-J according to any Jaw of the
United States.
A-J be it further er.-Z.-d, That from and after
the lJ It day of 4pril t ont thousand levcn hun
ilied an'l mnrtwtiu.-?, no elicited spirit. enC.-pi
arrack and Iweet cardials, fliall be broa;ht into
ll,c Ur.itrd Mat. i fr •>.> any foreign poit or place,
l-xoi c ijj cn.'!;-. or VL'i'.eU oi the capacity ot nine.}
. a.l>>ns ind upwards.
And b-.> it 'further c:u:-fi ?, Thnt no drawback
of the duty on :; i;; I --1 i; • i j v. !i.c!"a •' " cx '
ported afu-r the i , t day of June / ext, iU ill be al
l ,ived upon any rnjnii'V l-'-S than wi'.c hund'.ed
c " 1 i v •
jl-Jhi :t fur >::?jf?-;d t That after ihr. Jail
.1 ty oi innc ij( v , ii'» di.iilied fpiritj liiall be
oriit!:;itt into the > nited States, l'ro:n a-»y foreign
port or place in any ca.'k or vdlcl, which (bill
ha»e. been niarkfd poriu.int to any i aw of t.i-'
united Srat'.": concerning drilled lpirits, on pain
forfeiture of the spirits so brought, and of lire
>.iip or vessel in wh eii they (hall be brought*
And be it further era Sled; That if the owner or
polfefTT of any Itiil or stills, frail neglect to make
entry thereof, within the time and in the manner
prescribed by the iecond feftion of this ast, Inch
>wncr or poiicllor ihall forfeit and pay the I urn vt
iwo hundred and fifty dollars ; and if any diitilled
lpirits, except arrack and sweet cordials shall,
,it:r the 1a ft day of April next be brought into
he United cates in calks or veiTels of h:~ capa
city than ninety gallons, all such fpiiits, and the
casks and veiTels containing the fame, (hall be
to seizure and forfeiture, and every such
penalty or forfeiture ihall be one half to lhe uli
f the United States, and the other half to the
use of the per ion who shall firit aiicover and m. k
•cirown the matter or thing whereby the lami
shall have been incurred.
Sine, be it further cr.aEled, and declared, Thai
>hc duties hereby laid (hall continue in force, tot
iiv fame time, and are hereby pledged and appro
bated to and for the fame purposes, as those, in
,ieu of which they are laid, and pursuant to th(
jIX intituled " An ast repealing after the lalt day
it June next, the duties heretofore laid upon
.lill.lL'd spirits imported from abroad, and laying
otheis in their stead, and also upon lpirits diltil
led within the United States and for appropria
ting the lame."
A>:ii 'eit f> * toer enaH.J, That to make good
anv di-ficirr'v which 'may happen in confequenct
> ::c. r e u v made in the rates of the
luties on fpiiiis diitilled within the United States,
ana on ffilis, so much of the product ot the duties
i .ij by the 3ft intituled 44 An ad for raising a
farther sum of money for the protection of the
fr of. tiers, and for other purposes therein mention
ed, 11 a J may be netelfary, ihall be and is hereby
. ieJgtd and apprep:iau Jto the lame purposes,
j and for which the duties, hereby reduced,
were pledged and appropriated.
And be it further euacled, That the Prefidenl
of the United States be authorized to make such
jllowances for their rcfpe&ive services to the fu
ervifois, infpeftor# and other officers of inlpec
lion, ?s he Ihall deem reasonable and proper, fc
js the said allowances, together with the inciden
,al cs | enk-s of colleftmg the duties on spirits dif
• illed within the United States, (hall not exceec
i\. n and an .halfper centum of the total product
•fine duties on diitilled spirits, for the period tc
which the said allowances shall relate, computing
irom the t>ir» - the act intituled *' An ast repeal
,!j . iter ihe lad day of June next, the dutiej
. ctofore laid upon distilled spirits imported from
u iv.!.!. aid la . ing others in their Oead, and alfc;
. ;i lpirits aidil'cd within the United States,
nd f->i appropriating the fame, took effedt : Ana
yrcv'u'tn nlfo, TKat such ailowajjce shall not ex
ceed the annual amount of feveiity thousand dol
lars, u/jtii the iame Ihall be further ascertained
!)v law.
And be it further enafledy That the ast entitu
lec, " An r.Ci repealing after the last day of Junt
icxr, the duties heretofore laid upon diitilled fpi
ri;s imported from abroad and la\ing others in
their ilead, and also upon spirits diti:Jled within
he United States, and for appropriating the
fame," shall extend to and be ill full force for the
collection of the several duties herein before men
tioned and for the recovery and distribution ot the
penalties and forfeitures herein contained and ge
nerally for the execution of th:s ast, cs fully and
'■ifv.v-tur.lly a 5 if every regu!;»tjon,:eftii£ »on, penalty,
provision, matter and thing therein con
iair/wd were inserted in and re-enacted by this
efent ast, fubjeft only to the alterations here
by made.
Approved by the President, T»lay Stb, 1792.
CHESTER TOWN & BALTIMORE
STAGES.
npIlE Eaftern-Sho-re Stage, by way of Chef-
tertown to Baltimore, starts regularly from
James Thompson's, Indian Queen, Fourth-street,
Philadelphia, every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday, mornings, precisely at 7 o'clock, and
on the fame mornings at 4 o'clock, from Mr.
Grant's in Baltimore. The cultivation of the
country, and goodness of the roads, togethei
with the attention that shall be paid by the pro
prietors, will, it is hoped, be a fufficient induce
. uent for a preference being given to this route.
1 AMES THOMPSON,
ROBERT HODGSON,
N. B. Light Waggons for hire by James
Thompson, at the Indian Queen..
Numb. 65-
In the House of Rep rel'enutivea,
Monday, April 30.
Mr. STEELE'S Remarks on the EXCISE
LAW.
"The report of the committee of the whole,
concerning the modifications of the fcxcjz
Law, under confiderauon.]
Mr. STEELE moved to strike out
eight cents and infertftx, upon the tirft
class of spirits difkilled from fruit or
grain within the United States. 1 his
motion, he laid, had failed in commit
tee, but upon reflection the house might
probably exprels a different opinion,
and with that hope he was induced to
renew the motion. When a proportion
has for its balis justice as well as policy,
it cannot lofeadvocates by conhderation,
and several days having elapsed ftnee
the former dilcuffion, a well grounded
aflurance is entertained that the prelent
attempt will not be wholly unfuccclsful.
Tha object of the prcfent bill is
to remove objections and, if pollible,
render that mode of taxation more
palatable to the community. If
therefore it can be proved that neither
of thele delirablc ends can be attained
without reducing the duty, common
sense suggests the propriety of doing it.
The manner in which this law is now
executed has difgracefully committed
the dignity of the general government,
and a lcnTc of national honor requires
that one of two things should be done;
either that the law be totally repealed,
or fully executed. If the latter be the
determination of the government, it can
not be productive without reducing the
rate, Amplifying its operations, and, in
many rclpects, rendering if less excep
tionable to the people. It has been en
aCted now near twelve months, and in.
that time it cannot be said to have been
well executed in all, or productive in
any part of the United States, in the
degree which was originally expeCted.
The Secretary of the Treasury has
propofed,in his report, that in certain
instances the proprietors of stills should
be allowed to discharge the amount of
their refpeftive duties in the producc
of the distilleries. This, fir, will be an
accommodation to the diliillers, but
while it answers this beneficial purpo
se to them, it operates as a flrong ar
gument in favor of a reduChon of the
duties. If reasonably reduced, an in
dulgence so unfavorable to the public
would not be demanded or expeCted.
The present motion is made under a
conviction (resulting from a confidcr
able knowledge of the nature of grain
diftillei ies, and of the circumftanccs of
Ihe country where they are molt in ulc)
1 hat the treasury win ifcccive more
money from a duty of fix than nine
ccnts upon the gallon.
Mr. Steele then begged the house to
rccolleCt that this is the firft attempt to
introduce a system of excise into the
U. States ; that it is too the firft attempt
to tax any article of American growth
or manufacture ; that the law requires
a surrender of at least one fourth part
of the value of the thing excised, and
that not only the justice of the measure
is denied, but its policy is doubted.—
The neccflitics of the government are
so interwoven at this time with its po
licy, that it is not easy for this, or any
other measure relating to revenue, to
undergo the proper c«nfideration, or to
be decided fimplyupon its merits. The
opposition to this law has not proceeded
from a restless and disorderly spirit
among the people, but from an averiion
which freemen in all countries everhacl
and perhaps ever will have to this
mode of taxation. Andbt ingenious
rheorifts refine as they please upon the
nature of indireCt taxes, it mud always
be admitted that exciles retrench the
liberty of the citizens on whom they
operate, and that they are fubjcCt to so
lid as well as plauftfcle objections. Ithasalready been the fubjgcl of much com
plaint in many parts of the unidi), and vvi'.l
be productive of furious consequences if
these complaints be not redrefled by the le
gislature, in the present feilion. Among the
causes of diflatisfaCtion are the following:
ift, Excite la\es are novel in the United
States, andodiofis in their nature ; 2d, Ar
ticles of American manufacture are no:
proper objefrs of taxation, and if they were,
the rate of duty ill this instance is too high;
"d, The proportion which was efiabHhied
between the rate of duties on molasses, rum,
and spirits distilled from fruit and grain,
tends to the encouragement of the former,
at the expence and depreliioli of the latter ;
4th, Because it operates, and is in fait, r.
tax upon this occupation and agriculture,
as they stand connected in one part of the
union, while manufactures in other part
are not only rewarded by high protecting
duties, but in fame instances-even by fpeci
iied bounties.
The agricultural interest has experienced
the unfavorable influence of this iaw like
wile, and it operates ii'.oft opprcflively too
upon that class of farmers whose e/tates are
fituatcd in the interior country, and whose
interests have thus far passed almost unno
ticed, in the policy of the genera! govern
ment. That class of citizens, though they
have not been moll folicitotis, are hever
tiielefsnot insensible of their burthens, and
the neglect with which their interelt has
been treated.
The value cf our lands has been station
ary lor fume time : their produce not 111 de
mand, and where it is, at depreciated prices:
and notwithstanding this, taxes are impo
sed, evidently calculated in their operation
to render agriculture tributary to the more
favored branches of business.
No argument can be advanced that will
justify the imposition of burthens upon the
cultivation of the foil, for the aggrandise*
ment of manufactures,' or the emolument
of those concerned in thym.
Mr. Steele then said he would put a cafe,
which is a familiar one in the date which
he represents, and might be so in others. 11
a farmer is poffelTed of a given quantity of
rye ior <aie, money cannot be obtained for
it at any price—he fends it to a diltillery.
where one half is given in the lirft instance
for mantifafruriiig the other. The duty is
then to be paid out of ttie farmer's part,
which reduces the balance to less than one
t i:rd o! the original quantity. If this is
■j:ot an oppressive tax. I am at a Iof; to tlef
cnbe what is so ; and if a proportion had
been ma.le to lay ailmilartax upon Ameri
can porter, na:ls, paper, (hoes, or any other
article of this kind, we should not ihortly
have heard the last of it. And here let me
alk, what is in the nature of these manu
factories which entitles them to fucli priori
ties and preferences :' It may fairly be an
i-ver.d, that they are nearer to perfection
that they are aided by more capital, that
they are therefore better able to bear taxa
tion, and that the advantages which they
now erroy have been derived from the ge
nerality of members representing the agri
cultural parts of the country. It is moll
iincerely to be wulied that the manufactur
ing dates would fix some bou ids to their
expectations and that they will not conti
nue to insist upon unreasonable lacrifices
from those who are engaged in different
juii'fu;ts, and little able to make them.
The tendency of this law has been, and if
not differently modified, will continue to
be, to build up the rum distilleries upon the
ruins ot those employed by farmers for do
mestic uses. These are not suggested to be
the motives which actuated any part of the
majority in palflng this law originally, or
which now influence the zealous oppolition
to the present motion ; but as the reduction
of the tax is objected to principally by gen
tlemen, who on Other occasions have been
anxious to aifdrdlegiflative aid to American
manufacture , it is not uncharitable to fay
that their lingular conduit now might juf
tify such an imputation.
If this has not be ,'n the policy, my mo
tion for the proposed reduction will indu
bitably prevail.
Mr. Steele then called the attention of
the house to the system of federal taxation
ingene aland instanced several duties which
operate unfavorably to the landed interest,
in the (outlier!) parts of the Union. Parti
cularly the high duty on fait, nails, shoes,
■and other eflential articles in husbandry,
with which the peopie of those Hates are ai
molt \\ holy Supplied from foreign markets.
The enhanced price of fait and nails are
seriously complained of in tho.fe frates, be
en re tii? one is efieatial to the improve
ment of their large stocks of cattle ; and
the article of nails is in very extenflve use
becaulie the country is improving in build
ings, and yet to be improved. The tax up
on these articles cannot be felt in an equal
.degree in the northern and eastern states sot
very obvious real'ons.
It has been frequently aflerted in the
conrfe of this debate, that distilleries in the
eastern states have flourifiied and are grow
ing up under the operation of this law,
which, if true, is an unaufwerable argu
ment in proof of its inequality. 111 the
foutheru states they sre cramped, in many
initances annihilated, and the secretary,
fenlible of this, has in his report proposed a
temporary expedient of allowing (he dif
jjllgrsfhe privilege of discharging the du-
tie~ on the (pint-: difhlied ' t cer'.a.n ftjpnla-
ted prices. Tnis is pl-ilnly admitting the
truth of an aliertiou which has of cen heen
repented, that the law, in its operation,
won id he found unequal and opprefiive.
In order to vote Underflandingly on the
present queltion, we ou;j;ht to have been
iiirnii'hed from the trei.fury, with a (tatc
ment of the neat amount of revenue ac
cruing from nioiaficG diflillatlon, after de
dll fling the drawbacks upon the motafle?
dilHUed and the rum export*:!. 7 his, com
pared with the amount accruing from the
tifhliacion of American produce, on which
d drawback is seldom demanded, wc.ld be
placing the fnbje£t in a proper point or view
for a lati factory decision. This statement
ihopld now be called for, if the late hour of
the feJion cl. cl not render it impracticable.
A gentleman from Maflachufefcs, (Mr.
Ames) in the course of his remarks, ha-
Rated, that the existing proportion is fuf
nciently favorable to the distilleries em
ployed in grain and fruit. For that the
American made rum now pays, including
the duty op. niolafies, thirteen cents per g«l
--lon, while its rival liquor of common qual
ity, is oily (abject to nine tents. 'i'his is
true, :is it relates to the consumers within
tne United States, and, if none was expor
ted, might be lefsexceptionable :—but how
does it operate upon the American distil
lers ? Ole in Maflachufetts makes a certair
quant ty of rum for exportation ; it is ex
ported, and of course pays no duty ; while
another, in North Carolina, makes/an equal
quantity of spirits, from fruit and grain,
wholly from home cor.fuuiption, and it and
chargeable for the full amount of the du
ties. But admitting them both to be arti
cles of American manufacture, and alike
entitled to legifiative prote&ion ; is there
any colour ci jtiuice in taxing rum, (which
by the ettimation of the gentlemen them
selves, is wo"th, in the market, at leaf! twe
thirds of a dollar per gallon) only ten cents,
when you propose to tax spirits made from
grain, which is worth in the market, bu!
halt as much, eight cents ? The inequality
is so glaring, that if the motion is decided
on principle it mull succeed, and if it do;:
there is good reason to b'tlieve that the peo
pie will be disposed to give the law a fair
experiment, even in places where it lia
been hitherto least palatable.
Fms, Sir, may not improperly be termed
a between two dalles of citizens,
whoie mrerefts are, and will be for some
year;, diilimilar ; the agricultural and ma
nufafturiijgparts cf the United States. I.
is not the firlt conflict of the kin i, and may
not, perhaps, be the lail— and if we mr,
j'.idge experience, it will not be diia
cult to predict how it will terminate.
However, vrh:le facts and principles are
-ii or of the motion, we lhall be ittfii fir.'
ill contending for w ? hat we have nothereto
tore had, " coinlitutional equality, and im
partial legislation."
11 may once ior ail be remarked, without
expecting it will have any influence on the
house, that a great majority of my confti
tuenta hold in deteii.ition the name as well
as the nature of an exc'.fe la-.v, and that
they would have been among the fir it to re
monltrate, if they had not been fully fenii
ble that their representatives would speak
their sentiments and describe their feeling;
whenever a proper occalion fiioald occur.
This is deemed to be that proper occa
lion, these are their sentiments, delivered
in the language of sincerity ; if they are dis
regarded, the members from thattlate have
dil'charged their duty, and will not be an
swerable for the con.equences.
But it has been said by a gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzfimons) tiiat if the
duty be reduced to fix cents, agreeably tc
my motion, it will not be worth collecting,
i o this it may be plainly answered, thatli
'he duty be not reduced, it cannot, njr will
not be collected.
FOREIGN NEWS.
Berj.iN, March 31. The eleCtor o:
Mentis minilter at this court has no ificd
the vacancy of the Imperial throne to hi
Prussian Majeity, and summoned him to ap
pear at Frankfort on the 3d of July, to a:'-
ilt in the eleChon of a new emperor.
London, April 10. —Dr. Priclilev\. c cuf.
for damages, committed 011 his property in
the riots at Birmingham, was tried on
I hurfday la!t. In about nine hours after
thebeginning of the trial the jury returned
their verchctfor 2501/. 18/ I being 1610/. Iss t
lei than f>r. Prieltley's claim, which was
Fvfcli, the celebrated Italian painter, ha;
not drawn the portaits of Dr. Prirjllcy, nor
Mr. Paine, nor!iorntTcohe, as aflertedinfo.ne
of the papers : but what will do him more
honor, he has painted Satan, Sin, and Droit.
;.n a style of ft;bl Imity which modern art ha;
[ong been a ftrangerto.
Paris, April 16. M. Durnn thon, av
eminent lawyer of Bourdeaux was appoint
ed minilter of ju'tice on Lhe 14th instant.
M. Gouvion, formerly colonel in the arißj
of the American United States, and deputy
to the National A (Terribly, has sent in his if
lignation to the president, of that ,'tn JV.
"It is too painful to me (fays he, in "his
etter of relignation) to live any longer i n a
city, where feme nug-f'tate: of t;> ~c -•.
rejoicing in'the triumph of the nutri.crt:-.-
of my brother f>nd his feijuw soldiers have
humbled the Isatioial Guards, who were
fieppiiig. forward to .the execution of the
law. Let me be placed with :h true-friend,
to the constitution, and then it will be fee.i
who deft:t btfV, we, or il.eJrc.x-us."
PHILADELPHIA.
June 11, 1792.
On the 30th ult. vas held a meeting at
the Hate house, in Boston, for the election
of senators and representatives iii the ge
neral court of that Hate. — The senate made
choice of the honorable Samuel Philips.
I'.i'q. for their prehdent, and the honorable
David Cobb, l-'fq. (pinker. After the
election a fcrmon, adap'cd to the occ.-.fior,
was delivered by the Rev. David Tappan,
from the words, " The:; leddeft thy peo
ple like a flock, by the hands c/Mtfes and Au
rcn ■"
1 he Roman Catholics in Ireland, if one
might judge from their petitions, remon
llrances, bec. in the Irifli papers, are begin
ning; to speak a language not at all to the
rehlli of the high flying court party of the
nation, liy threats and menacing intima
tions they have recently obtained four
points.; the right of intermarriage with pro
teflants ; pleading at the bar ; of taking
any number of apprentices in their com
mercial departments ; and eftablidiing any
number of leminaries for the education of
their youth.—These, however, they conli
cleras mere t.atural right;, and as much
their inheritance as air, light, and water —
they now importunately infill: upon what
they eileem an unalienable privilege, the
''S^ l of voting-, and have petitioned the par
liament for that parpofe.—This seems to
agitate the minds of the oppollng parties,
?.nd to fuchadegree as to make manydread
the moftferious confeqnences; both (by the
last accounts) seeming determined to carry
their points.
l etters from France, to the latter end
:>f March, fay, that "the sudden death of
die emperor will no doubt operate a great
shangein the affairs of that country, and
it least procrastinate a war, if not wholh
prevent it.—Previous to the death of the
cing of Sweden, the diet refilled granting
lim any subsidy, and h:id he lived it wa
heir determination to put him under an ar
-efi for tiie immense deficiency in the trea
ury, in consequence of the exorbitant fup
slies that had been lavilhed out to the
'rench princes and emigrants ; which re
ource is now entirely dried up to those e::-
s crable parricides and enemies to the right,
ind liberties of man. These accounts fur
:her fay, that Spain is renewing her former
)ol;cy of entering into the clofeli alliance
)o:!ibie with France- 7he Count Florida
31anca is in the completed merited disgrace,
l iving through his whole administration
howed hmfelf a tool to the Fnglifli, tiie
liveterate enemy of France, and the d.abo
ical projector of the horrid infiirreftion in
>t. Domingo. -The king of France ha
lifmifled the only two patriotic miliiflers
le had, Narbonne. and Cahierde Gerville.
Je Leilart has been arretted by order of the
lational aflembly, his papers seized, and
limfelf sent to Orleans to be tried by tiie
ligh national court, for obnoxious conduit
n a variety ofjv-irticuiar.i. Oiher ministers.
t is said, are al;b arrested. and tiie queen
lad become so odious to tiie nation, that
ter head had been demanded, in Paris; and
hat file had been >• tbiiclv accused by tile
Vtarquis de Condoreet—The army of th.
ine had a deficiency of 52,000 me:;. Ko
boner was t-vs publicly known, aiid that
he country was in danger, th in four ban
Ired thousand citizens voluntarily eniilled.
.ind hurried with the uttnoft rapidity r
:heir standards — this omens well to tiie
:aufe of liberty, and renders it highly pro
sable, that in a (hort time at lest twenty
snflaved nation:-, will b? restored to a Hate
if liberty, and with it, to the ordinal dig
nity of man."
We hear, that on Tu?f:!ar l-:l tli? Pre
sident of the United State ; and his Lady, at
tended by the Secretary of State, and tV"
Secretary of the Treafi.rv and his I.ady, ho
nored Mr. Pearce with a visit at his c-itton
manufactory.—The Preful: it attentively
viewed the machinery, &c. andfav,- thelni-
Gnefs performed ia its diifcrei't bra aches,
which met with his warmelf approbation.
Few fubjeeh have ever received a great
er (hare of public notice th 1:1 the F.xciiV
Law; and none has ever been more gene
rally disapproved of. T.ie inhabitants of
a city accustomed to enjoy tvery luxury
which money can p rot-tire, and unaaqu tint
edwith the labour aid trouble attending
the ciilltllation of brandies, may perhaps
conceive tiie cxcife a jnffc and wholesome
tax. But the farmer, far removed from
any seaport town, and enjoying 110 luxury,
other than the produce of his labour, an !
who by great toil and trouble has made a
few galions of brandy, only fufficient for
his family confnmption, will no doubt con
ce.ve the excise an iniquitous and opprpf
five tax. Oppressive, becaule it is a tax
on laboi;.-, and extorts moii.ey frojii the
poorer class of people :—And iniquitous,
bccau r c its effects will be severely felt by
t nr a trt of i':e (into", while, at t!w fame
tin... ; will ....a beneiit to rile other.
Law was not repealed
at t;t !ei!;on oi Congref,, is no proo of
it - goodner-. \\'h it occasioned the altte -
atiotts wli.t.'i were made but the murmurs
or ihe people : -id it • greatly to be ho ■
ped, tna; when the additional representa
tives come forward, and the fenle of t'.c
people is better known, that this much re
pi obated law will be wholly repealed.
[Al>. .-\dv.~J
On the iSthult. the Mavor, Recorder,
Aldermen, and Inhabitant' of the borough
of Norfolk, in Virginia, addrefi'ed his ex
cenency, Ken:iv Lee, governor of that
live, who arrived there the day preceding,
ex p : ' " ll g tiieir tnanks in the warmest man
ner ior his attention to their iatoreilr.. a;s«l
expatiating on the gratification thev felt ; :i
the recollection of a charafter.fo di!i*i:i-n.!i(h
ed for pan-iotic exert.ons both in the cab:-
net ami hi tiie field, being at the hecul oi"
the commonwealth. The°Covenior return
ed a polite aniwer to this add refs, thanktno
the borough for this instance of their eneeio
and ' ooci opinion, and alluring thenti th il
che jjojwr and prosperity of'the United
Stat2> (and the borough of Norfolk in oar
ticalar) ihoald ever connitin.l his mJ;t
faithj'jl s.\\;Ttions and endeavors.
A recruitingoflicer in the country, writes
clnii to his friend in this city—" Where I
am, the reeruitmg budnefs goes on heavily
none but the refufe of the creation to be
picked up—gallows looking fellows (like
Sirjohn Fid tail's regiment) who only enliit
with a delign to desert—and when colleacd
will, I fear, be pronounced
t>o worn, so wailed, so deio s'd a crew
As even die Indians might with pity view."
" Die people of Virginia (fays a letter
iron. Richmond) are disposed to put the
worst conftruclion on the law imposing a
pollage on newspapers ; arid, I expect, will
certainly rcmonflrate againll it, at the next
lellion ofCongrefs."
According to a late Hartford paper, the
finances of that Hate are in such a favoura
ble iituation, that the Hon. the General
Alifcmbly, at their late felEon, determined
that it was " unneceflary to lay any further
tax, for the present, on the inhabitants of
the Irate oi Connecticut."
Benjamin Wrfl, Esquire, a native of New
ngh'nd, is appointed President of the roy
al academy of Painters, See. of England,
vacant by the death of Sir lofliua Rey
nolds.
ihe late Governor Wentv.-orth, of
New-Hampji ire, iv appointed Lieutenant
, overnar of Nova Scoisa.
A manufacturer at Sprint;ireld,' Mafia
.luiierrs, has difcovercii a method of "(pin
ning liemp, hitherto unknown in this coun
try. His fail duck is now entirely manu
f'ashired from that article (instead of (lux,
as heretofore) and is pronounced by good
indges equal to any in the world. li i- ilid
to have every advantage over fail cloth
made from flax, being whiter, more dura
ble, and not fubjeftt to mildew.
It is nilerted in a late English paper, that
the new government of France had declar
ed war against the King of Hungary, as
the molt elleidual means ot securing perma
nency to the couftitution.
The following calculation may afford
some idea of the miserable (ituation of the
mafsof the people in England. There are
many thousands in that country ho ttec
no more.than one (hilling a day (sterling j
wages for their labour. "In the present
Hate o things (fays Mr. Paine) a labouring
mtt.iin England, with a wife and two or
three children, does not pav less than be
t iveen fcvc.n and eight pounds a year in tax
es. He is not (enhble of this, because it is
'lf.uyd to limin the articles which he Luys and
■'ie tiJiijKs only of their dearnefs ; but as
the taxes take from him, at lealt, a fotrlh
part of hi-, yesrijj earnings, he is conse
quently disabled from providing for a fa
intly, especially if himi'elf, or tiny of them,
are u.incted with (ickoels. I —Here il is evi
dent Mr. Paine is speaking of titofe who
earn two (hillings a day, the number of
whom are few in companion to the cncjhil
'ittg men—What then mud be the fuft'eriiKs
of this latter class—and what wender is it,
d out oi ft veil millions of persons that En
gland co:;:ttt.! , no ieis than fourteen Hun
dred thousand are left to be supported by
the public, and perhaps as many more beg
gtng aim , pocket-picking, or high way
robbing through the nation !
Several add t onti 1 (hip; offeree have re
cently been fe.it to the liritiih Weit-Indie ,
from a fufp'.c'tot! that the violent difcuili
ons in their parliament refpefling the (lave
trade, (liould occasion an ii.fnrrjtito.i in the
I Hands.
Letters from Barcelona fiiy, that "Teat
importations of wheat have been made in
to that port, Marseilles, and other places
in the south of France and Spain, in confe
rence of the preceding (Varcity. The
markets were Co entirely" glutted, the be
ginning ot April, as to preclude any future
sales of cargoes for several months to
come.—Great complaints were lmde of
the unfairnefs of the Virginia measures;
the cargoes from that (la-e falling much
ihorter of measure, than from any other
part of the union.