rNu M B r-6 of V"OL. 11. J
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
PARIS, Sep. 17 —25.
THE enemies of France are every day
becoming more formidable. All
the advices from Germany, Spain, and
Sardinia, agree in the accounts they give
of the expensive preparations which art
carrying on against us, The king of
Great Britain, in his German charadler
of Elector of Hanover, has not merely
avow ed his intentions of taking part with
the two great courts, but has been itioil
conspicuous and forward in engaging
others to coalesce. His Hanoverian mi
cifter, as we havcfeen officially notified to
the assembly, has tiavelled over Germany,
to make converts to the cause of the
Princes. The king of Spain has thrown
off the flimfy disguise of neutrality, and
assuredly declared liimfelf for holti it leg.
Sardinia, at the fame time, no longer
occasion for jesuitism, but threatens de
termined war.
The general idea of the plan of the
crufadii against France is as follows.
1. " The united armies of'Piuflia, and
Auftriahave no hope beyond the reduc
tion of the northern departments, in
which, if pofiible, they mean to plant
themselves for the winter, not entering
Paris, but holding the chief quarteis ot
the camp at St. Denis.
2. " The whole of the southern fron
tier to be menaced and held in check by
Spain and Sardinia, whik a diverlion may
be made by the Swiss Cantons.
3. " Thus invested to the Souih and
England, for they cannot fepai ate
she King of England from the Elector
of Hanover, is to. threaten thedepavtments
opposite to the Channel, that the panic
ftiay be general: and thus assailed on all
fides, the mediation of England is to be
offered for the establishment of a limited
monarchy."
We have the omens of new massacres
in Paris. The minister of justice h s
found, that lince the maffjere, between
four and five hundred persons have been
imprisoned in Paris by the municipality,
the fe£tions, ar.d individuals; some of
them upon crimes alledged, but most of
them on mere undefcribed suspicion.
The assembly knowing well that the i nil -
Tiuations of these ruffians are signals for
execution, have taken meaft'.res to save
these poor wretches from the fu y of the
mob.
During the night of Sunday and Mon
day lad, the mob here broke open the
jewel-office belonging to the crown, and
Hole out of it all the jewellery and rega
lia.
The treasury deposited in this place,
comprising diamonds and other precious
ilones, the r:ch presents made by foreign
princes, &c. was by far more valuable than
that belonging to any other cro-ned
head in Europe. The total value of the
diamonds, pearls, coloured (tones, and di
amond ornaments of the king's dress alone,
is estimated at about one n illion sterling.
Merlin, member of the commit
"tee oFtrfearcheSj has given the following
account of the robbery :
At at night, a patrole of the sec
tion of .the- Thuilleries perceived a man
who wa» descending the lamp post of the
jewellei/ office. On seizing him his poc
kets wtre found full of jewels, diamonds,
gold atid fiiver. Another robber in at
tempting to escape by throwing himfelf
fiom the top of one of the pillars, was
■wounded in the head and taken; he was
covered with brilliants, and had a handker
chieffuH of gold and fiiver, diamonds, sap
phires, emeralds and topazes. The nati
onal assembly has this morning named
four of its members to be present at the
iuformation of this affair. Two confi >-
erable diamonds, one named the Regent,
worth 500,0001. sterling, and the Souci,
sre carried off, with ail the most precicu s
By P. FRENEAU: PuUiJhcd, Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Tij ree Dollars per annum. .
S A T U R D A Y, NovpirNr i". 1702.
brilliants. The value is estimated at feve
ral millions sterling.
In consequence of this depredation, ar
order was issued instantly to (hut the bar
ricrs, and search every person who at
tempted to pass. At the fame time cou
riers were dispatched on every road lead
ing from the capital with orders to (lop
every carriage they met. Two of tht
thieves were taken into Custody.
The pearls of the crown are in number
five hundred arid thirteen, of which four
hundred and eighty are not Jet, and thirty
three are placed in !ome ornaments worn
by the queen, whieh were shewn to the
commiffionrrs.
The rubies are two hundred and thirty
of which number an hundred and ror.y
five are noi mounted, and eighty five are
placed in the epaui'ette, golden fleece,
ind coloured cross of the order worn by
ihe king.
The Topa2es are seventy one, of which
anly three are mounted, and these are pia
:ed in the coloured cross worn by the
iing.
There are an hundred and fifty eme
-alds, of which number only seventeen are
et and these are placed in the coloured
:hain of one of the king's watches.
There are an hundred and th rty-fbur
"aphires,three oriental amethyfts,and eight
ayrian granates.
Of the diamonds, one called the regent,
if the weight of 146 carats, is estimated
it 12 millions of French livres, or more
:han 500,0001. llerling.
The belt ruby is estimated at 50,000
ivres, and the worst at 50 livres ; the best
opaz in estimated at 6bc© livrcc, and the
.vorlt at 150 j the heif emerald at 12,000
ivies, and the worst at 150 ; the belt fa
ahire is estimated at 100,000 livres ; the
Second at 6000, the third at 3000, and
he worst at 120; the best amethy il at 6000
ivres, the Worst at :oo :t'ne beftgranate
it 12000 livres, the worst at 200 ; the to
:al value of the coloured stones is 360,604
ivres, or about fifteen thousand pounds.
The diamonds above mentioned arefe
jarate from those made up into different
irnarnents lor the king's ufej the value of
which latter is 6,834,4-9° I'vrcs, or m ire
:han twohundred & fifty thousand pounds.-
riu total value of the diamonds, pearls,
:oloured stones and diamond ornaments of
:he king's dress, is 23,922,197 livres, or
»bout one million llerling.
The following letter was read from the
.ommiffioi-.ers sent to t e trtr ies.
" Maubeuge, 14.
" We cannot delay informing the as
sembly of the situation of thistdwn. The
?nemy, who aie numerous, hover round
tUe glacis, and plunder and lay waste the
neighborhood. Every thing announces
thai we (hall soon experience a ficge. The
inhabitant's antl garrison have no confi
dence-ia-lheir (foffimandant. As this ob
;-;£tion does not come within the limits of
our powers, we have written to thef com
missioners to the artny of the north, re
quelling two of t' em at leaf!, would re
pair hither. The camp under Maubeuge
has been too much weakened: that of the
enemy encreafes daily and we have sent
notice of this to the minister of war. The
enemy have done every thing in their
power to seduce manufacturers here, bot
have not succeeded ; they are advancing
in two columns.
A dispatch from M. Moreton, late
commandant of the camp at Maulde, con
firms the breaking up of that encampment,
and the distribution of the troops into
thel= different garrisons, to flielter them
from the puffuit of the Auftrians com
manded by general la Tour. Ihe num
ber of killed and wounded on the part of
the French, at the time of the retreat is
not yet known.
The Auftrians arebefieging Maubeuge,
one of the best fortified towns in French
Flanders.
The city of Lille is still furr unded b;
the Auftrians, who are in poftelfion of al
the vi lages and small towns in its vicinity
By letters from Givet it appears thai
that part of France is in a mod unpro
tcfted ilate Notwithstanding the all Jet
forces are advancing, there at e only 300
men to defend Charlemont,Givet, &c
The king of Pruflia is making new
levies in Brandenboiirg, as well as in the
other states. A contiderab'e train o!
Pruffiau artillery is on its way toward!
the French frontiers.
The Prince of Naffan reached Luxem
burg on the 4th in It. and brought the
ne.vi of the near approach to the French
frontiers of 25,0ca Ruffians
General Mcntefquieu, it is said, has
received orders to commence hoitilities
against the king or Sardinia, at the head
of the viflors of Aries, Mantaban, and
the camp of Jolis.
The French ambassador has received
orders to qnit Madrid, where, we are as
sured a war against the French revolution
is decided on.
German Empire againjl Francs.
The mimiler for foreign affairs has sent
the folio win s letter to the assembly :
*' Mr. President, I informed the affem
blyyelterday morning, of certain circum
stances which indicated that we Ihoulc
loon be involved in a war with the Gcr
man empire. I am now informed of i:
officially by dispatches. The decree o
the cotnmiffion has jufl appeared. A
tranflatio.i of it is now making in my of
fiee. In the mean time I fend you ar
aDKiafit of eight articles which it contairrs
" His imperial majelfy cxpe£ls that tht
diet will deliberate on the following
points :
1. " That a formal declaration of war.
in the name of the emperor arid empire-;
in opposition to that war already begur
by France againil the empire, by invafi
ons and holh e irruptions, be made.
2 " Thar what has been granted tc
France by the treaty of Munfter and sub
sequent treaties, ought not in future l<
be considered as obligatory.
3. " Whether it would not be proper tc
raifeihetripleof the common contingencies
in order to employ them againil France ?
4-. " What regulations oaght to In
formed re pefting the establishment of ;
war treafuiy and refpefting the contribu
tior.s neei ilary for fupplyi ig it ?
5. u Whether it would not be prope
to recall, by imperial letters, all the sub
je<3s of the empire, who are either in th<
military or civil service of France ?
6 " Whether it would be proper t:
forbii, by penal l.iws, the exportation o
arms and ammunition ?
7. " What regnlations ought to b(
made in regard to the commerce wit!
France ?
8. ' Whether it would not be prope,
to forbid all the members of the empire tc
remain neutral ?
" Such are she proposals made? to the
1 diet by the emperor. All the minister:
nave already received their inftrtiftions on
this point. The resolution of the diet
! will therefore be speedily formed. The ex
ecution of it rtiuft however experience
c'onfiderable delay. On a mature examin
ation of the situation of the circles, I think
I can positively afTert, that the empire
will not be able to diflurb France before
the end of this year."
. It it should be decided in the diet of the
empire, that the king of England, as elect
or of Hanover, shall furnifli his quota oi
men to a£t against France, they mufi. cer
and maintained by the purse of the em
pire.
M. Bernaidiri ce St. Pierre has been
chosen depu!y to the national convention
by the department of Loire and Cher, and
Dr. Priestly ha? bee'rj chof?n by that of
Orni.
I Tntal No. Jio. ]
The duke of Brunfwick is ported with
an army ot 50,000 men between Verdufl
nil Clermont. Fifteen thousand emi
grants, wi;h 5000 other troop 3, are behirtd
LuJlg ■ y.
G n ral Clairfayt, with 30,000 Austri
a s is in t e neighborhood of Carignan.
. here are about 2 ,000 Aullrians be
tween Sarre Louis and l.ot'gwy, wh cii
together with othei small bo'.iies, make in.
al! 1 32,003 men, without including thft
troops of Brifgaw and Flanders, who arc
said to amo nt to So,coo.
Several persons i;ave fallen victims to
their imprudent zeal in digging tip leaden
coffins, in order to convert them into bul
lets.
M. Burruvcr has been fvVorn into the
office, befo e the national assembly, as
commander of the camp under the walls
of Paris.
On the 2i ft of September the national
aflemb'y, after an existence of one year»
closed in a cheerful and truly patriotic
stile, by addrefftng the national conven
tion, of whom a fuflicient number had
that day convened, and resigning the great!
trust of the nation, the reins of authori
ty to their charge. In this address they fie*
hcitate thenifelves on the happy recepti
on of those menfures which they were dri-'
ven to (by the perfidv of one man) for
the preservation ot 24,000 000 of
Thev mention the perils which Francs;
had experienced finer the loth of Aug'tft#
and the perplexity of their fit ; «ati >n yolt
are, fay thtj, inverted with the tnriirfiifed
confidence of France ; commifficned by is
to let itSexternal enemies hearth; voictf
of its independence ; authorized to chain
at home the moniltrs of anarchy, and
make every head bend under the protec
ting and aveng ng word of the law—
The nation wishes for liberty aru3 equali
ty'—by the aiJ of heaven you can l'oori
give to Frenchmen, liberty, law's, and
peace—These three emphatical wordi
were inferibed, by the f .reel:?, on the walla
of tlie I emple ot Delphos—print them,
with indelible characters, on the whole
fur face of the territory of France, and
confidence, due submission and durable
happinrfs will be the bieffed Confequente.
The assembly decreed, that they would
proceed in 3 body to the Thuilleries, and
ast as guard to the convention. Ye funs
it def otsfay, is not this a tell of patrio
tism, and does it 'not remind you of the
great Cine matus at the plough ?
The convention entered convention
hall at half part one on this fame day 1 amid
inceffaßt plaudits, aftd proceeded to bafi
nefs. M. Petiori, Prefiderit of France, to
refute in the national palace. After'orga
nizing the house, they proceeded to cere
monies, but they seemed all of opinion
that equality (hould be observed; that their'
great bufmefs was to free the people, by
hurling monafchs to deTlruftion : they fi
nally declared, that there could be no Con
stitution but that which is a«cepted by the
people ; that law tnuft resume its empire ;
that territorial propeny and the fruits of
induflfy are sacred ; that they will con
cert the mode which the French people
at large shall pursue, to nvanifeft their opi
nions refpedting the conrtitution which
fliall be pieferrted to them ; they decreed,
that those laws and powers which had not
been abrogated or suspended, shall be prc
vifionally prefevved and fupporte'd, and
that existing ta'tes fliall b£ collected :
M Collet d'Herbois jurt as they were a
bout adjourning, rose and said, " I here is
one declaration which ought not to be de
ferred even until evening'—it is,the eternal
abolitrcn of royalty in France"—Some
debate arose, but finr.lly, the following de
cree was obtained, "The National conven
tion decrees, that royalty is abolifited ia
France Vive la Nation, &c. was voci
ferated from every quarter.In the evening 3 commissioners were
appointed to infpeft the works at the camp
of Paris, M. Condorcet was appointed vice
prelident. Officers of departments appear
ed attheb;".r,exprefl'e:l fathfa£tionatteeing
France delivered from the scourge of ty
rants, and swore to discharge their duties
with fidelity and pimftuality. Three com
mimoners were appointed to infpeft the
ex. fundi and treasury—-Several deputati
ons were admitted, who congratulated and
promised support.
On the 22d decreed—l That all pub
lie a£ts {hall he dated, '-The firft year oi
the French Republic." 2. That the state
seal {hall be changed, and have for legend,
"French Republic." 3. That the nationa.
seal (hall represent a woman fitting undei
a bundle of arms, and having in her hand
a pike, with the cap of liberty upon it.
and on the exergue, " Archieves of the
French Republic." 4. That petitioner:
lhall riot be admitted at the bar, but du
ring the evening fitting. Three commis
sioners were sent to enquire into the dis
turbances at Orleans, and to assist to quel,
them. It was decreed, after much de
bate, " That all the ndminiftrative ant
judicial bodies should be re-ele£ted'
" That all judges may be chosen without
diftindtion, from among the citizens. The
following letter; from Gen. Dumourier
was then read " Last nigjit, after making
an attack ofß hours, on the post of Keller
man, the Prussians, who loft many men
continued their march on the left. I fhal
iiot remain long in my present post, bin
Follow the enemy, and if they advance to
wards Rheims, I shall hem them in. 1
am perfectly fatisfied with seven battalli
ens of federates who have just arrived :
they are perfectly obedient, and love disci
pline, Signed ; Dumourier. A lettei
was read, announcing, that the enemy'
force seemed bent towards Valencieunes.
On the 23d commiflioners reported fron
Orleans, that order was restored. De
creed, that the military committee fboulc
have access when they pleased, that then
lhall b? a committee of war in two fefti
ons to concert together. The conduit o:
Spain was difcuifed, and cominiffioner,
proposed to be sent for information. Ge
neral Montesquieu's conduit censured foi
having sent falfe information, &c.
On the 24th threats from the Diet o:
Aran, were'received by letter, to invade
France. General Dumourier, has evacu
ated Chalons, by way of precaution. Th:
day terminated by these two decrees
1. The French Republic no longer ac
knowledges Princes. 2- The national
convention, in confequen:e, suppresses all
appenages.
Longwi, Aug. 5. His Prussian majeftj
palling by a village near this place, escort
ed by some dragoons, the inhabitants ma
nifelted a great joy on feeing him, but al
on a sudden the found of three or four muf
kets were heard, and his majesty and hi:
horse both fell. His suite, furious at fee
ing this treason, fell on to m&lfacre thf
people and destroy their houses; but thf
king, recovering his fall, called out to ltoj
their vengeance, faying, I am not wound
ed, spare lheddinghuman blood. However
this accident induced the king to fend >
courier extraordinary away immediately
ordering thirty thousand more of his troop:
to march towards the frontiers of France.
Lyons, Sept. 13. In imitation of the ex
ample set by the Parisians, the prisons it
this city were forced open, and the prison
ers, though defended by the municipal of
ficers, were all slaughtered indiscriminate
ly ; nothing could exceed the fury of tht
populace, and the effefks it produced art
too lhocking to relate ; several heads were
carried through the streets. One of the
prisoners had escaped from his murderers
and came to the hall of the magistrates, tc
implore protection ; but even his judge:
could not save him from the monsters whe
were in pursuit of him, and who cut hiii
in pieces, with several more unfortunate
citizens and prisoners, in the very presence
of the officers of jurtice.
At night the bloody scenes increased ; e
very moment the prisons were opened ; ;
great number of priests were murdered :
one of them was disguised in women':
cloathes : the {laughter did not cease til!
the streets were covered with dead bo
dies.
An infurreftion has ulfo taken place 21
St. Martin, near Lyons ; seven perfous, a
mong whom were four priests, were favec
from being mafl'acred by a party of nati
onal guards.
London, Sept. 21. The corporation ol
Dublin, in Common-Hall, on the 24th
inft. took into consideration the petition oi
the Roman Catholics, who claim a right tc
equal immunities and privileges with the
Protestants. This petition the corpora
tion have rejected, as tending to overturi:
those principles on which the conftitutior
is founded.
The question between the Proteftanti
and the Catholics in Ireland is agitating
with much vigor. The appointment ol
delegates, by the latter, having been treat
ed as illegal by some persons of considera
ble weight, the opinions of Mr. Butler and
Mr. Burfton, two of the leading counsel
there have been taken upon it, who have
declared the measures to be one of the un
alienable right; of the nation.
Since Monday lafc, er.trier, for goods fpr
different parts of America, to the amount
of i 60,0001. have been made at the cus
tom-house.
Extraß of a letter from Dublin, Sept. 13.
"It is find thatinthecourfeoflafl week
a subscription, amounting to ifcretf millions
fteriing, was completed among' the Roman
Catholic gentlemen and merchants of Ire
land, for the purpose of purchasing lands in
North-America.
The obje£t of this purchase is said to be
two-fold ; firft, that these lands may serve
afe an asylum to which those people may
retire, should they fail in obtaining what
they now seem to consider as cffentiaLto
the being of freedom—the elettive fran
chife. The second object is, that they
may be a source of profit, should their situ
ation in their native country be made such
as to induce them to remain in it.
This measure of the Catholics, should
it be carried into execution, must very
deeply interefl the national welfare. No
thing has occurred in Irifli politics, within
the present century, more worthy the at
tention of the politician and the flatef
man.
Brufels, Sept. 22. After. the events of
the 14th infl. the news of which you pro
bably have heard, the armies under the
command of the Duke of Brunfwick, ha
ving turned the mountains of Clermentois,
found the armies of Luckner, Dumourier,
and Kellerman, very advantageously polled
in a chain of mountains parallel to the ri
ver of Ainfe.
The combined armies offered battle tc
the French, which they refufed. It thei
became necessary to turn a corps of 20,00 c
men under M. Dumourier, who occupied
a height which is considered as the key tc
the pafles. The intrepidity of the troop:
conquered all obltacles; they"attacked and
took a battery of cannon, arid M. Du
mourier, perceiving they would turn his
flank, took flight. The two other general:
followed his example, and the French ar
my passed the Ainfe in the greatest distress,
and fled towards Chalons, where it is
thought they did not flop.
In this retreat, from four to five hun
dred prisoners have been made, and they
loft a great number of people, four piece;
of cannon, sixty waggons, and an infinite
quantity of baggage.
M. de Sombrueil, aid-de-camp of the
Prince of NafTau, has gained great credit
in this action by his valor and intelligence.
It is understood that the king of Prussia de
corated him with the military orders on
the field of battle.
All the difficult paflage.s are now forced,
and the combined armies have the keys to
Paris, except the battle which the patriots
are to fight in the plains of Champagne,
behind Chalons ; but it is feared their cou
rage will not await the Auflrians and Pruf
iians.
The combined armies bewail Prince
Charles de Ligne, whose courage was the
cause of his death.
LONDON.
To write now in favor of the people is
deemed seditious, and a libel on govern
ment. In the name of common sense.
what would soon be the people's conditi
on, if they were left to the will of govern
ments, with no friend of spirit to plead
for them.
According to the modern definition of a
libel, every new fpaper which is not in favor
of miniflers, is liable to information daily,
by the attorney-general ; for if to abuse
government be to libel it, do not all prints
of the above description abuse it ? Point
ing out its corruptions and deformities, is
abusing it to all intents and purposes.
" Reprobate and vilify the friends of
the people," is the cry from a certain
quarter. 'If we can frighten John Bull
from encouraging any salutary reform in
parliament, and make him terrified at the
appearance of his real friends, wc then
may pick his pocket at our pleasure.'
The advocates for despotism, though
they lose their arguments, will not lose
their holds, while .their patrons have the
treasury in keeping. Take that away, and
down goes the zeal of their adherents at
once.
If Mr. Secretary Dundas should go to
the Eafl-Indier this funimer, inflead of his
uninviting spot near Edinburgh, we advise
him not to touch at Botany Bay; his popu
larity is no greater there than in Scot
land.
We slated in our lafl the combined ar
mies flationed before Thionville having ta
ken the height of St. Michel,neas that place,
after an obflinate aftioil, in which they loft
five hundred men. It now appears that
the prince of Hohenlohe was killed in the
contest. He was an experienced general
and the commander in chief of one of the
three great armies, deflined to ait againll
France.
A flratagem of General Wimpefn, the
commander of Thionville is much praised.
On the nth infl. he made a prodigious fire
in the market place, the flames of which
were mistaken by the enemy, for a fire a
mong the lioufes, kindled by their bombs.
They immediately made an assault. A de
tachment from the garrison took them in
flank, while the cannon' of the place play
ed upon their front, and they were prefent
lv routed yrith the loss of three hundred
men, left dead upon the spot. Upon the
whole, Thionville has already coftthe ene
my a thousand men, belideo an irumen le
quantity of cannon and bombs funk in the
Morelle.
Riont, September 8.
" Thomas Payne, the Electoral Afiem
b!y of Puy-de-Dome. in its fitting has cho
sen you a member of the national conven
tion. Your love of humanity, of liberty
and equality, the ufeful works, which have
issued from your heart and your pen, tc
defend them, have determined this choice.
It was received by universal and reite
rated plaudits. Come, friend of men. in
crease the number of patriots in an afiem
bly, which is to fix the fate of a great peo
ple, and, perhaps, that of the human race.
" The time of happiness, which you
have foretoldfor nations, is arrived. Come,
do not deceive their wHli.
" Signed The Members of the Elec
toral Afiembly of the
department of Puy-de-
Dome."
Letter from Brujfels, Sept. 8.
" A private account received yesterday
from Luxemburg, said that the operations
of the army were far from having beer
attended with the success that had beei:
expe&ed ; that the Hungarian grenadiers
had been very roughly treated, the van
guard of the Prussians repulsed, and thai
the army, instead of marching straight or
to Paris, was intrenching itfelf on the fron
tiers of France. It was further said, thai
the king of Prussia shewed already some
marks of disgust, and had repeatedly re
proached the emigrants for having afihrec
him, that half the army would come ovei
and join them ; that the towns would oper
their gates, and a considerable party make
head in the interior of the kingdom. Ye
sterday the account was that Thionville
had been at last taken, but it is now con
tradi£ted.
" Saar-Louis, Metz, and Verdun, have
been reported to be taken, in order, nc
doubt, to keep up the spirits of the ariito
crstic party, and the report found after
wards falfe. Longwi wasfaid to be taker
before it was in reality, no doubt for the
fame purpose ; the allied armies have now
been a month opposed against the enemy,
and if they have taken Thionville, it Is the
only conquest yet reaped by their arms, foi
Longwi was the fruit of treason, not ol
valor.
" The king of Poland, it is said, not onlj
means to resign his crown, but to exile
himfelf forever from his native country
This iliews a mind weighed down wits
grief.
" The Duke of Bourbon has quitted hi:
enmp at Ardenne where the patriots had ar
intrenched camp during their war with the
Auftrians, to attack the French frontier 01
the fide of Givit.
" The Prussians occupy the advantage
ous post of Tiercelet, where the Frencl
£rft encamped at the beginning of the war ;
They have made the peasants furnifh a mar
from every hcrufe in sixteen villages rounc
about, whom they force to work at theii
intrenchments.
" The king of Prussia gave the other da)
a dinner to the Count D'Artois, it consist
ed only of twice three dishes. After the
repast his majesty iufinuated to the royai
emigrant, that if he had always made fuel:
frugal meals he would never had occalior
for his assistance.
" The emigrants may have deceived the
courts that espouse their cause, in promis
ing a powerful internal co-operation o:
their party on France, which probably con
fills of no more than the adherents ox the
late civil lift and the fanatic clergy, inwhicl
doubtless they were wrong, but the morti
fications they at present meet with are no;
excufeable to men under misfortunes. T<
give a man four rye bread with all the brai
in it is hard enough, without infuiting hi:
delicacy. This treatment had nearl)
brought about the other day an engage
ment that might have rid France of t«i
enemies."
■ ■■ — ~7 •
For the National Gazette.
Short Remarks of: the present unpopular In
dian War, and pointing * out the means ti
vegociate an honorable Peace, much dejirec.
by a majority of both parties, on terms oj
reciprocity.
THE merits and demerits of the present
very unpopular Indian war have been
much difcuifed during the late session ol
Congress and in our daily papers; but in
no instance more thoroughly or justly than
in a small pamphlet lately publilhed, and to
be fold by William Young in Philadelphia,
entitled, " Minutes of Debates in Council, on thi
batiks of ' the Ottawa river, November s - 91, fa:d
to be held there by the chiefs of the seve
ral Indian nations, who defeated the army
of the United States on the 4th of that
month."
Owing to these discussions, and to the
sense of the nation, the executive of our
government have adopted various means
to induce a treaty, but \\ ithout any good ef
fect ; because the superstitions and preju
dices of the nations we are at war with
have been ignordnce
or inattention in those who have been en
trusted with the proposed negociations;
and our ambaft'adors h: ve not been allow
ed to enter into the enemies councils, to
deliver their embattles, but it is said have
been put to death. Hence, some, and
particularly the .tirft promot of the war,
and-thofe who have an immediate interest
in its continuance, wifii uj to believe, that
war alone, and not peace, is the objeil of
our enemy, and therefore, that we ought
to redouble our forces and our expe • js,
to reduce them to a proper sense ol their
perfidy, as their noble spirit is improper l y
called.
The causes of the war, pointed out by
the Indian nations in the above mentioned
pamphlet, and particularly ourdifregard to
their ancient customs, manners, and pre
judices, are the occalion of their invetera
cy and hatred: and our pride, insolence
and falfehood, displayed in some of our
publications, and our contemptuous treat
ment of thern on various occasions, as
pointed out in thac pamphlet, ought to be
removed, before we can expect them to
place any confidence in us.
It may perhaps new, after our several
defeats, be kon'Jlly ajkcd, how we are to in
duce the natrons with \\ hom we are at
war, to listen to our propositions for peace ?
I know that nothing, of equal importance,
is more eaiily to be accomplilhed ; a pero
ral of the above mentioned pamphlet will
point out the means, and our former mis
takes; but if it does not do this so fully as
might be wiihed, there are, no doubt, ma
ny among us, who are acquainted there
with ; and whose patriotism wouid induce
them to awe undertaking, were they to be
called upon : or, they would at lead give
the necetfarv information. All with whom
I have conversed on the fubjeft, who are
acquainted with the Indian character and
politics, do declare, as I do, from an inti
mate knowledge of them, that peace with
the United States, upon just and honorable
terms, is their firlt and most deiired object;
and easily attainable by us, on principles of
reciprocity.
How strange soever these observations
may appear to those among us, who
ior a war of extirpation, or perfect cort
queft, or however dilfonant from their
doctrines these positions may be found, yet
I judge they are the best principle® to build
our reliances upon, for a permanent peace-
This accomplilhed, upon true principles,
we Ihonld fee the nations haftehing to em
brace us, as they did our ancestors; and
and then ihould we fee superstition combi
ning with inclination to implant in the
minds of the rising generation, on both
lides, the most friendly sentiments; such
sentiments and difpoiitions having once
obtained, will be the Itrongeft barrier for
iheir own preservation. Opposition to the
"uperilitions and prejudices of a people ;
railing at them for periidy which they
were never guilty of; and insolent threats
of chastisement they know it is not in our
power to inflict, are not the means from
which to expect fuccefsful negociations, or
:o produce mutual confidence and good
faith.
TAIMENEND.
November 16.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Tuesday, Nov. 13.
Several petitions were read, praying
compensation, &c. and referred.
Mr. Boudinotof thecommittee to whom
was referred the letter from the Secretary
of State, relative to the northern bounda
ry of the territory of the United States,
reported a resolution, viz.
" That the President of the United
States be requested and authorised, -with
the concurrence of the states of Virginia
and Kentucky, to cause the line to be ex
tended from the western termination of the
line formerly run by Fry and Jefferfon on
the part of Virginia, and by other furyev-
on the part of North-Caroiiria, by a
urveyor of fufficient abilities, in.the pro
per latitude; whereby the northern boun
dary of the territory ceded t0 the United
Spates by the state of North-Carolina, may
be determined, and that CoAg/efs will pro
vide ror the necelfary expence attending
the fame."
The house took tip for confide ration
the motion which had been laid 011 tj'ie'tS*-
ble relative to notifying the Sccreta.y of
the Treasury and the Secretary a L War of
the intention of the house to take up the
consideration of the report of the commit
tee on the causes of the failure of the ex
pedition under Gen. St. Clair, and requi
ring their attendance to what information
might be wanted in the course of ,the in
veitigation.
After much debate the question \Vas put
upon the last proposition contained in the
motion, and loft. The firft part conse
quently fell to the ground.
The following was then agreed to—Re
folded, that the committee of the whole
house, to whom is referred the report of
the committee appointed to enquire into
the causes of the failure of the expedition
under Gen. St. Clair, be empowered to
:'er.d for persons, papers and records, for
th ei r information.The honfe then came to the following
resolution—That the Secretary of the
'"reafurybe directed to cause to be laid
before the honfe, a Statement of the Seve
ra! difbur foments of money made by the
department of war in the years' 1790 and
1791.
Adjourned.
Wednesday,. Nov. 14.
On motion that a committee be appoint
ed to prepare and- bring in a bill to
late trade and intercoarfe with the Indian
tribes---It was agreed to. and a commit
tee appointed for the purpose.
Petitions from several refugees from Ca
nada, were read and referred.
Mr. Murray's motion for appointing a
committee to take into consideration that
part of the President's speech relating to
the tranfmilfion of newspapers, and whe
ther any and what alterations may be ne
ceSTary in the poll-office law---%vas refer
red to Me firs. Murray, Baldwin, Oilman,
Ames and Barnwell.
Two petitions were then read and r?fer
red.
A letter from the Secretary of War, ad
drefled to the Speaker, dated War Depart
ment, Nov. 14, was presented and read, as
follows :
5 I R,
" After the clofepf the last feffio'n of Con
gress, I saw with much concern the report
of the committee appointed to enquire in
to the causes of the failure oi' the expedi
tion under Major Gen. St. Clair, of the
Bth of May, 1-921; which having been pre
sented to the house in the 1 alt moments of
the session, was ordered to be printed, and 1
has iince circulated in the public newfpa- i
pers throughout the United States, con-'
taining suggestions molt of tliem founded
upon exparteinvefligation, which have been
underltood in a sense very injurious to my
reputation.
Learning tliat the present day was ap- '
pointed for taking into consideration the I
above-mentioned report—l have waited
with anxious expe£tation for some act of
the house enabling me to attend the pro
gress of the examination upon which they
are about to enter, for the purpose of fur- ;
nilh'ng such information and explanations [
might conduce to a right understanding
of facts, in which I am so materially im
piicated---The failure of a proposition
which I am informed was made to the
honfe with that view, has added to my so
licitude afld regret.
Thus (ituatcd, I feel myfelf called upon
to aSk of the juSlice of the honfe that some
mode may be devised, by which it will be
put into my power to be present during the
course of the intended enquiry, as well to
hear the evidence on v, hich the several al
legations tontained in the report are foun
ded, as to offer the information and ex
planations to which I have alluded.
To this Step I am impelled by a persua
sion that an accurate and fatisfattory in
stigation cannot otherwise be had with
equal advantage, if at all. And my entire
reliance upon the equity and impartiality
of the house will not permit a doubt to
exist 011 mv part, that such an investigation
will be exclusively the object of their de
lire and pursuit."
A letter to the fame effect from Major I
Hodgdon, quarter-master-general of the
late army, was presented and read.
A motion was made to rtfer these let
ters to a committee of the whole house ;
which was superseded by a motion made
by Mr. Madison to-difcharge the commit- j
tee of the whole from tile consideration of
the report of the select committee, and >
that the fame, with the documents rela
tive thereto, be re-committed to the fame !
committee—This motion was carried in
the affirmative.
A Statement ♦is presented, from the
Treasury department* of expenditures ne
ceflary for the year 1793.
Thursday, Nov. 15.
The bill for registering and recording of
Ships in the United States, &c. was twice
read, referred to a committee of the
whole, and made the order of the day for
next Monday.
A letter was communicated from the
Secretary of War, inclosing one from the
agent of the United States to the Creek
nation, giving information refpeclin'j; In
dian affairs in the fouthpm department
An inclofeu letter from Gen. M'Gillivray
was partly read---but Slopt, and ordered
to lie on the table.
A motion was made to refer the petition
of Henry Bowes to the Secretary of the
Treasury, which was negatived. It was
then moved to fend it to a feiect commit
tee. On this motion the petition, and ac
companying vouchers, received a reading,
by which it appeared, that a house belong
ing to the petitioner in Fredericksburg, had
been used in the war as ahofpital and bar
racks, for about two years, and during
that time had futfered much damage.
The petitioner applied to Mr. Turner,
a commiSlionerforthef.-ttlement of claims,
but was unfuccefsful in the application. A
second commissioner was appointed who
fettled Similar claims ; but the petitioner's
ill health, owing *0 his services in the ar
my, having cause his absence from home,
he learnt of the appointment too late to
apply. This second motion was alio loft.
The petition of Richard Cheivvvorth
was, on motion, referred to Messrs. Hart
ley, Greenup, and Gordon.
A petition from the door-keeper of the
house was read and laid on the table.
The galleries \vere then cleared.
PHILADELPHIA.
November 17. "
The general affcmbly of Delaware met last
week at Dover, and have appointed Gun
ning Bedford, James Sykes, and William
Jiiil Wells, electors of the President and
Vice-President of the United States.
On the 30th of October 1 ast a violent gale
from the eastward did some damage to the
Shipping in the harbor of Charlelton, S. C.
fortunately, it being low water on the bar
during the height of the gale, the Shipping
did not fuller so much as might have been
oiherwifeexpe£ted. Some wooden build
ings were blown down.
Considerable difuirbances have recently
happened in Cape-Francois; in which the
patriotic party have been prevalent. One
officer of the counter-revolution party was
put to death, and about fifty other obnoxi
ous persons snipped off to take their trial
in old France, on a charge of having fo
mented the rebellion of the negroes, yn
cepcert with the anti-revolutioiiifts in the
mother country-
It is mentioned in a letter from Paris,
dated September 14, that Gen. Dumou
rier Still occupied his old polt ; with an
army suddenly increased from 9000 to near
60.000. The forces under Gen Keller
man. and feme other Generals were ex
pected to join these in a few days, after
which there was little doubt but a general
attack would be made upon the com
bined army of the despotic powers.
Oil the 15th ir.lt. the deputies from the
several counties ot the State of New-York,
(appointed to Seek redress for the outrage
supposed to have been committed by the
decision of a majority of the canvaflers for
governor) waited on the afi'enibly, to the
number of Bo,perfons, to deliver in their
respective memorials. These were pre
sented to the Speaker by a member, and
finally referred to a committee of the whole
Honfe, to be taken into consideration on
the 22d instant
A letter from LiSbor. to a gentleman in
Petersburg, Virginia, dated September 7,
mentions the great profpeft there for the
sales of wheat and Indian corn ; " The
cfops having turned out far beloV expec
tation, and the greatest part of the foreign
grain in the wa.-e-houfes in a perishable
condition. Upon an ordinary calculation
it was thought there was not grain enough
in Lisbon to supply the inhabitants three
months." Vnother letter favs, " The
greater part of the wheat at present in our
(lores is damaged, and the harvest of the
country has been but indifferent ; the fame
having been the cafe in Spain, there will
be a considerable demand there for foreign
wheat ; and Italy which used to furniSh a
great deal both to Spain and Portugal, will
this year supply little or nothing, the ex
-1 porta'.;mi in Sicily'oeiilg prohibited ; nei
ther do we e::pe£V much will come from
the north of Europe the "rices there not
being inviting, and many people deterred
from venturing on account of heavy
: lofles fuffered for some time pull."
j The legislature of the state of Rhode
| Island have very lately palled an act, fixing
j the value of gold coins agreeably to the
| ndard of the United States, viz. the gold
i coins of France, England, Spain, and Por
i tugal, and all other gold coins of equal
rinenefs, at 89 cents for every penny
weight ; by which, r ounce of gold is
worth 17 dollars. So cents; 1 penny-wt.
39 cents ; 12 grains 44 1-2 cents ; 6 grains
22 1-4 cents; 3 grains 11 1-3 cents; i
grain about 3 2-3 cents.
Letter from James Seagrove, Efq (agent of fa
cial! affairs i.i the southern department of the
United States) to the citiiens of the Jlate of
Georgia
" IT being (in my opinion) of some con
-1 Sequence to the citizens of Georgia to'know
I the"dilpofition of the Creek Indians to-
I wards them them at this time, I have
1 therefore taken this mode of aSsuring them,
j that, from the v hole of my late commur
j nidations, and the investigation of matters,
, I do not find any difpoiinon in the chiefs
of the Creek nation to be unfriendly to
any part of the United States. On the
contrary I have reason to think it.the wiSh
of nine tenths of that nation to be in ftrift
friendship with us.
Many and base have been the attempts
of late to mislead those unfortunate people,
notwithstanding which, I will venture to
aSTure the citizens of this country of a conti
nuance 01 peace, and a friendly intercourse
between them and the Creek nation, un
lef; the restless, vicious disposition of some
of the white people among us. Should ob
lige the Indians to adopt a different line
of conduct.
All attempts from any foreign quarter
to mislead them I consider of little or no
confequer.ce ; much more mifchief is to
- dreaded from the ill difpoft'd ainorg
ourselves. Ic therefore becomes incum
bent on every good man in this country,
-U he values peace, a:;d the prosperity of
eorgia, to a 1 e every exertion to prevent
any outrage or injury being committed on
the Indians, or their property Herewith
I fend, for immediate publication in the
azette. three Talks which I received a
Jew days pall: from chiefs who ai'e wei\
known to be of the firft consequence in the
nation. lam in poflefiion of many other
ilrong proofs that we stand well with the
southern tribes, but those I now fend will
serve to convey the willies of the Creeks."
£The talks above referred to, are from
the head men of the Upper Creeks, Lowr
er Creeks, Culfetahs, and Cowetas ; and
are all exprefiive of peace and amity, and
a desire to maintain a good underitanding
with thefubjects of the United States, j
ExtraEl of a littei from a gentleman in Londonder
ry, dated iept. 4.
" The Jacobins, or Republicans of
France, having overturned the former or
der of things, a bloody contest is begun,
in which it is hard at this diftarke to fay
which is right. It is certain the friend
of liberty have had many obstacles to
encounter ; among their greatest and most
dangerous enemies are the priests, but they
arc now to be all sent to South-America to
till the earth. Fayette has fled from
France-, and it is f.iia is going to Ameriea.
At home Paine his fairly overcome Pitt
and his colleagues : in Ireland Napper
Tandy has conquered the whole force of
government."
Extiafl of a letter f'rem Hfyanida, dated OSlo
ber Ij.
" A Ihip is arrived at Cayes, with 3jq
men of the battalion of Aube. These
troops, v ho were much abused by the ene
mies of the public good, appear to be well
disposed, perfe&ly well disciplined, and
shew great impatience to be led agaiaft the
revolted.
The Ihip St. Aine, which brings the re
mainder of the battalion, appeared for a
moment, but has been again driven out to
sea by the currents.
It is time France Ihould think of us.—
Fifteen days more and all was loft.
We wiih much for the arrival of M. de
Montesquieu, to re-eftablilh good order and
enforce that obedience which is due to le
gal authority.
We just now hear, and the intelligence
may be depended on, that Cavillon, Jere
mie, Cayemittee, Petit-Trout and L'Anfe
a-veau have furroundedthe rebelsof Petit
-1 rou, had pursued them for nine days
and k:llpd almni'tthe whale of them ; the
survivors prayed for mercy, and all is re
stored to order; it Ihouid be observed.
that they had as commander no agent of
the old executive."
■AbflraEl 0/ further intelligence by the late arrival
at New■ Yotk.
The minister of the home-department,
in Paris, had written to the commander of
the Parisianmilitia. M sar.terre. in the name
ol the nation, to use all lawful means to
prevent any further violences being done
to persons or property in the capital. On
the 13th of September,, a part of the Prus
sian army attacked the right and left wing
of the army under M. Dumourier, but
were repulsed with confsderable loss. The
Prussian army; near Verduiv were block
aded by Dumourier and Kellerman,
having only Longwi open for a retreat,
-"he main strength of the enemy's force
was preparing for the liege of TllionviJle,
which was expected, in a few days to begin
in form ; a part of the Anftrian army was
also expected to fall upon Lisle or V alen
cienr.es. A fleet fitting out at Brc-ft, for
the Mediterranean, confuting of five Ihip
of war, from 80 guns to 18. Though the
republic of Holland had determined to
take no part in the war against France,
their merchants were neverthelfcfs afford
ing them every aid in their power in 1 "up
plies oi ammunition, and every species of
military stores. Accounts had been re
ceived at Brullels, which were believed
authentic, that the king cf Prussia's troops
took poflefiion of the town 01 Chalons (95
miles miles ealt of Paris) on or about th£
acth of September. The Marquis de la
Fayette Was not admitted to a parole, as he
w:lhed, but was ordered to be confined to
the citadel of Wefel, in Westphalia. En
listments were gping on rapidly in France,
but were a good deal delayed by a want of
muikets : a I rge fifpplywas however con
tracted for both in England and Holland;
the orders on Birmingham alone amounted
to one hundred thousand stand. The hasty
surrender of the fortrefs of Longwi was
deeply r'efented by the National Afl'embly
aild patriots of France ; the aflembiy pafl
a decree on this ocCasion, enacting that
the sums due from the national trocfary to
the inhabitants of Longwi and Verdun
should befufpended ; the liquidating com
missioner was also forbidden to give them
any bonds, or orders on the national treu
fury ; and the agents ordered not to pay
any such bonds, either already delivered or
tv be delivered ; and every receiver of the
diftricl ii also forbidden to receive in pay
ment for national property, any such bonds
or order:, under the penalty of r?fpcr..i»
bility. The Ruffian squadron, which by
many had been supposed to be destined for
the Mediterranean to ast against France*
had returned to Cronftadt, in all proba
bility to lay up for the winter.
ExtraCl of a letter from a rcfpeElable house in LiT
bon to a gentleman in Maryland, dated. Sep
tember 11.
" We take the present o'pportunity of
informing you, that there is a very flatter
ing profpcct of grain being in demand, in
our market, during the ensuing winter
andfpring.
" Kefpecting wheat, the greater part at
present in our {lores is damaged; the har
vell of our country has been but indiffer
ent ; the advices of our correlpondents in
Spain are to the fame effect ; and Italy
which tifed tofurnifh conliderablytowards
the confimiption of both Spain and Portu
gal, will this year supply little or nothing,
the crop having fallen so Ihort as to occa
iion the exportation from Sicily to be pro
hibited : Neither are we apprehenflve that
mUch will come from the north of Eu
rope ; the prices there, particularly in
Holland, being upon the rife, and many
people deterred from venturing to this
place by the heavy lofles fuffered for fonie
time pall.
" Indian corn is likewise scarce in Na -
ples, and on the borders of the gulph of
Venice, from which parts we received so
abundant a supply, in the beginning of the
present year, as effectually to prevent the
advantageous file of that from America ;
our advices are, that this will certainly not
be the cafe in the spring of ner.t year, and
we are, in consequence, persuaded that
your corn will find here a favorable mar
ket."
■ ' -
f From the Daily Advertiser ,~\
I tAMKNT that the'writer under the
signature of Solon,in the [National Gazette
of Wednesday] was either uniformed, or
overlooked another connection betweea
the national bank and the general govern
ment, which only requires "to be known, to
be universally pronounced improper.
I am informed, that the gentleman who
fills the laborious office of is aKb
one of three commiflioners, appointed si
.ally to fettle the accounts between the
United States and the individual states, for
their whole disbursements during the late
war. Objections of a two fold nature
present themfeives against this arraiigs
ment with irrefiftable force The falaiiea
to each of these appointments rtre liberal,
and proportioned to the importance of the
office. The bank we know mnft, and
will be served ; and after that duty is dis
charged, whether time can be impropriated
to the duties of the committor-, Sufficient
to merit a salary of two thoufanrf two
hundred and fifty dollar's, the public have
a right to judge ; and every man, not in
flated with foily or prejudice, mull deter -
i mine in the negative. It will then follow,
■of consequence, that the mod important
trull in the gift of Congref,, malt be made
a secondary conlideration wish the cashier
|of the United States Batik.
But viewing this fr.bjeft in aridther point'
|of light, the objections appear ytt stronger
and more conclusive ; —but delicacy for
b.ds here what duty does not powerfully
enforce, especially as the gentleman refer
red to, as far is I arn informtd. ftandshigh
in public and private eftec-m : It will
thereforet>e fumcient I hope, to hint, with
out enlarging on the imp.'opri ty of any
man (for there arefrailtir common to ali)
receiving at the fame t me a fulary from an
inflitutionfo rnuth foftered by the United
States, and arbitrating for millions where'
the union is a party, and where the Hates
friendly or inimical, may ft and in (ftfferent
relation to the int'ereft of that inftitEtioa.
SOLON, Jnil.
November, 10.
Ft the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
GOVERNMENTS are the more perfe£t
the left room they leave for the eXercifsof
venality and corruption.
The belt government is inadequate toi
the purpofe> for which it was instituted,
uXilef the officers thereof be men of unfiia
ken integrity.
The citizens of the.several United States
of America, agreeably to their cor.ftitu
tion, elect to represent thern in Ccngrefs,
men, as they fuppefe, of integrity and abi
lity. To them they entraft all their poli
tical concerns. .
This being the cife—Qucre. Is it jufti
fiable in the delegates, or is it acting agree
ably to the fpirlt of their or
the wNhes of their coriftittients, that the
rnoft important concerns of the nation,
nay, proportions on which depend the lia
bility and prosperity of government, be
referred to the determination of an indi
vidual? I fay determination, from reflect
ing on the well "known infiuc-nce great
names have on Come minds.
Did the good people throughout the uni
on, in their elections, contemplate thff
transfer of their delegated right?
Is the mode confiitutional ?
In fine, is not the legiiiative body fully"
competent to all the purposes for which
they have.been appointed ?' 1 ' iVi'inn'i aww iWMin'ivr
From the American Daily Advertifcr.
A S it appears by the public prints
J~\ that there will be a contest for the
olrice of Vice President, which becomcs
vacant on the 3d of March next, and
which must be suppled by the free fuf
frage of the people, it may not be deem
ed improper, in relation to those princi
ples which fhonld be held sacred, to
make some comments on the relative
pretentions of those who aie fjid to be
competitors for this important station.
This trait in the executive department of
uur government, is among the mcft impor
tant of those which distinguish it from the
monarchies of Europe ; and as its prefor
mation must in a great meafare depend
upon the political condud of those who
fill it, a candid enquiry into the charac
ters of the competitors becomes a matter
of public right. It belongs to a free peo
pie to guard themselves from injury ; and
to this great principle the forms of cere
mony or complaisance for perfens must,
upon all occasions, yield, liven the com
petitors, therefore, however painful the
scrutiny might be, should console them
selves under the refledion, that upon the
preservation of the principle, the fafety of
their country depends.
In particular circles several gentlemen
have been spoken ©ffor the office in ques
tion, but at present all others seem to be
withdrawn from view, and the contest to
reft solely between John Adams, Esq. and
Governor Clinton. To their compara
tive merits, therefore, as the only compe
titors, I (hall confine these observations.
To trsat of them in the affirmative line
would be useless, as it could lead to no
fatiafa£ftry conclusion ; for every person
will admit that, in some refpedi*, they both
poffe:s the requisite qualifications: that
both, for instance, possess an adequate 9a
pacity for the difchargeof it 3 official func
tions—are of fufficierit 3ge and standing in
America l —and have likewise rendered
important services to their country. To
fix the preference, their merits must be
viewed from a difFerent ground. The
objedion3 which apply to each must be
fcanrrcd, and he ag inft whom the more
weighty app'y> rejeded.
To Mr. Adams it has been objeded,
that he is attached to a government of
king, lords, and commons ; and that the
allegation is true, it is to be prefuir.ed,
will not be controverted. His writings,
entitled, "A Defence of the American
Constitutions," and " Discourses upon
Davilla," fully demonstrate it. If it
could be supposed that doubts existed up
on this point, extrads from those publi
cations should be now furnifhed ; they
shall however immediately, if any intima
tion of the kind be given. And to Mr.
Clinton, an objedion of a difFerent kind,
his opposition to the present constitution,'
before its adoption, has been urged.
These, I believe, arc the principal ob
jedions made to either : they are, how
ever, those only upon which I shall make
any comment. To whom, then, does the
stronger one apply ? On whose political
principles, at the present moment, would
the good people of these states with
greater propriety bestow their fandion'?
To form a found decision upon this
inteiefting question, two others, on which
it depends, should be previously fettled,
First, Which of these gentlemen's politi
cal sentiments wander fartheft from the
present constitution ? and secondly, On
which fide does the greater danger lie, in
the progress of the government, of an un
due inclination towards the form preferred
by Mr Adams, or that ascribed to Mr.
Clinton J
With refped to those of Mr. Adams,
it will be readily perceived, that they de
pait, in all the great outlines, frgm the
pi efent constitution. The establishment of
a government of king, lords, and commons,
would entirely subvert the present one,
which rests on the free fuffrage of the peo
ple. Two diftind orders with hereditary
rights, would be ereded over them, and
they reduced to a limited portion of au.
thority only, forming a kind of balance
against those higher and hostile orders.
With refped to those of Governor Clin
ton, it is to be observed, that they have
always ranged within the republican theo
ry. His maxim has been, to keep the go
vernment, in all its departments, essentially <
conncded with the people. The question
about the constitution involved only a mo
dification of this principle. Besides, it is
to be presumed that many of his objedians i
have been done away by the amendments;
so that, in fad, it must be deemed, in all
its parts, as nearly correspondent with his
own theory, as the contrariety of senti
ment, always difpbyed on a fubjed of
1 such importance,could reafonab'y admit of.
The charaderiftic difference, then, in
their political principles limply amounts
to this, that these of Mr. Adams vary ra
dically froiti the constitution, in the main
1 features of the republican system : whereas
those of his competitor harmonize with it
in that elfential point. In addition to which
' it is of importance to observe, that upon
1 the establishment of the constitution, and
prior to the adoption of amendments,
Mr. Clinton's opposition ceased ; and
' that, on the contrary, since that event,
Mr. Adams has, in the discourses above
' alluded to, endeavoured, by all the argu
ments in his power, to inspire, in the minds
of his countrymen, a diftrult of a govern
' ment founded on the people alone, and to
prepare them for the gradual introdudion
of hereditary orders in the (late.
In regard to the other quefcion, On
which fide doe's the gre-ter danger lie, of a
more probable inclination towards the sub
version of the republican system, by the
: introdudion of a government of an higher
tone, or too great a relaxation of its prin
ciples, I am persuaded that so person can
seriously entertain a doubt on the fubjed.
He muit be little Ikilled in the political
balance, and the true complexion of the
' times, who fufpeds, in any degree, a pre
ponderance of the latter evil. That the
government may {land on its present
ground, is certainly the wish of those to
whom a contrary i'entiment lias been at
tributed: for let the objedionsof those who
' were opposed to it, where opposition was
made, be examined, and it will be found
1 that the space which separated the body of
• the opponents from that of its advocates,
was a narrow in fad, the dif
ference, in many in fiances, vuas but trifling,
1 and that this has beeu generally acccm
' modated by the amendments .The truth
of this position has been so well eftablilhed
by events, that to doubt it, argues a mind
so inveterately blinded by prejudice or in
terest, that the force of truth cannot reach
it. No danger than of a vibration back
need be apprehended ; for, in truth, no
. person wilhes it. On the other hand,
it mult be admitted, that the evident len-
I dency is in the opposite diredion. A
particular enumeration of those measures
| which contribute to give this bias, is at
present unnecessary, and would certainly,
in their developement, exceed the bounds
of these obfervatiens. For the truth, how
ever, of the remark, I beg leave to appeal
to the judgment of every impartial and
well-informed American.
If, then, the good people of these states
wish to preserve their government as at
present, eledive in its form and limited
in its poweis, can they hesitate in deciding
to which of these gentlemen the prefer
ence should be given ? An unequivocal
declaration of their sentiments upon this
point, thus exprefled, would hereafter be
felt by the candidates for public favour,
and refpeded. It would give a republi
can tone to the American charader, that
might tend to preserve their liberties
forever. No cor.fideration of local attach
ment, should interpose to defeat a mea
sure, which their interest requires and
their judgment didates. For the securi
ty of thole great principles upon which
their revolution was founded, and their
present government rests, their union
fhomld be firm, solid and indissoluble.
■, LUCIUS.
METEOROWGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
October, 1792.
D. H. Bar. T/ter. Wind. Weath
Tucfday, 30. 7 30. 1 53 Calm. Fair
2 30- J s'S I
tVcdncfday, 31. ? 30. 2 54 , N. Fog.
2 30. 2 58 N. E. Cloud.
Thurfday,~Ho\i 1 7 29.. 7 60 s.s.w .Cloud.
2 29. 8 62 | W. Windy
Ftiday, 2. 7 29. 8 53 W, 'Ram'.
2 29. 7 61 S. W. Cloud.
Saturday, 3. 7 29. 8. 52 jN. W. Fair.
£ 3Q- e 58 | do. Cloud.
Sunday, 4. 7 30. 15; 4! js'.W.l Fair.
® 30-15 63 f do.
Monday, 7 30. 00 3? N-W . p alT
e' 30.00 67
Three handsome Editions of the Laws
of the United Ftates for [ale at this office
(No. 209 Market Jlreet) in folio and octa
vo, either frdl or half bound— N.B. The
L,aivs oj the lafl Sefjion, in oflavo only, may
he had fe[.arate, price three eighths of a dollar.
K I D, and Co.
PERFUMERS, £sV.
Havejuft imported in the PIGOU, and other
lata arrivals from Europe, and now open for
Sale, at their (lore, No. 222, in Market above
Sixth-street,
A Mineral a (Tor tine fit cf the following
GO 0 D S, vizf
LADIES' and Gentlemens* japaned drefiin
cases complete, of all forts
Gentlemens* (having cases, powder bags, boxes
and powder pall's of all fores
Tortoiihell, ivory, and horn combes, of all kinds ■
Tooth brushes, dragon roots and tooth powder 1
All kinds of the best cloaths brushes (
Ladies' tortoiihell Aiders for the hair
Best Vftndforfoap, all kinds of walh balls
Powder maflcs and court-plaifter
Silk purses and gloves tops
All kinds of raifors, warranted
Pocket, pen, and fporling knives
Settlors'of all kinds
Pinchiug, curling and spring irons
A general afibrtmeut of pocket-books, ladies '
thread-cases and etwes
Heft Englifli, Chcfhire, an.l Gloucester cheeses j
Wax, wax candies, and lealing-wax
MelTage .caris of all kinds
All kinds of ha r powder
Englii?-, French, a d other pomatums
Tamboured, Cafiimier ana muflinct wtiftcoa
patterns.
An elcgar.t ajftn tmcnt cf
Ready made Mili-nary,
Confiding of full dress, Caps, Hat:, and Bortneti.
Fine chip hats
Black and coloured beaver hats, best quality
An afTortment of the most fafhionable ribbons
And beads for trimmings and other ornaments.
'Have likeivife received a f*ejb sup ply of
MILK of ROSES.
They beg leave to inform the ladies, that the\
continue to make all kinds of ornamental falfe
hair upon an entire new method, and of so light
and easy a conftru&ion, that they look better than
when a lady is dressed by the most expert hair
dretTer.
An affcrttnent of elegant cut Steel Watch
Chains, Seals, Watch Keys, &c.with a variety of
' other goods, too tedious to enun crate.
November 10. 4W. 2a\v.
"CHARLES BITTERS^
No. 12c, South Market, near Fourth-Jlmt,
Has received from New-York, and ma
nufactured by Lot MerAei,
A large and general aflortment of
Muffs and Tippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
GreatCoats, Caps, Mitts and Gloves lined
with Fur, which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lowest prices.
Nov. 14. 22\Vtf
New-fork and Philadelphia
STAG E S,
A D
Bordenton, Turlington, and Trenton or
Lamberton
PACKETS.
THE proprietors of the New-York and Phi
ludelphia Land and Water Scyges, beg leave
to mention, that for the better accommodation of
the they have removed their different
packet boats from their former fta-nd, at the
Crooked Gillet Wharf, to the wharf or dock im
mediately next be'low Arch-fcieet j from whence j
a convenient packet boat ffarts for New-York,
as usual, on every Sunday, Tuesday, Wednefdai
and Thursday, and returns on ev-ry Tuefdav',
Thursday, Friday arid Saturday. The paH'age to
be made either by the way (if Rordrnto't) or Bur
lington j e?ch place taken alternately.
Fare for paiiengers from Philjd. to N. York j5/
For goods pe< • Cw: • do 6fi
' Van Emburgh and M'Kean,
David Williauifon,
proprietor los the ime cf New York and Philadel
phia jlagcs, by the rout of Bordenton.
Jacob Myers,
•Amos Hutchfn,
Nicholas Schenck,
PrsprieTors of the line of Netc York and Philadel
phia fiages, by the rout of Burlington.
Bordenton, Oft* i,
I'or freight or passage apply to the matters on
board, or to
M'Kean and Van Emburgh;
Who have for sale at tneir (tore on said wharf,
immediately next below Arch-lbeet,
OSe Madeira, ~i Muscovado, 7
Tenerilfe, and SWinis. Loaf, and J-Sugars
Mountain L ump j
Jamaica Spirits, Molafi'es,
Antigua, ') Coffee,
Montferat & J-Rom. Chocolate,
Newbury J Bohea Tea,
Rochelle Brandy Burlington Pork,
m pipes, cafe# and Hams,
demijohns, Flour,
Gin in pipes and cafer, Bar Iron, osc. &c. &c.
Orders for Grain, Staves, Bills of Scantling, or
other I.umbei, punctually attended to.
For freight or paflage to Lamberton or
Tienton, apply at laid wharf to Thomas Afh
moore, William John Afhmoore or
Alexander Pouglafs, (Matters on board) or as
above, to M'Kean & Van Emburgh.
Philadelphia, Odtober 6, 1792.
V/ A N T E D,
A Journeyman Book-binder,
To go to Carlijlc.—
A PERSON who is capable of petforming
neat Binding and Lettering, vviH receive
good wages. The particulars to be ascertained b\
LEWIS WEISS, ifquire, Arch-ftfeer, 159, Phi
ladelphia, Noy. 13* 41, raw
GEOGRAPHY.
Mathew Carey.
Refpefifully fubrnits to the Citizens of the Uni-'
ted States, the following
PROPOSALS
FOR BY SUBSCRIPTION,
An AMERICAN EDITION of
Guthrie's Geography
impro v t D.
of which tbefe are the terms :
I. TT fhail be published in 48 weekly numbers,
X each containing three sheets, or twenty
four pages, of letter press, in qua to, printed
with new types on fine paper.
11. In the course of the work be deli
vered about thirty large maps, of the fame size
?s those in the European editions viz. mod of
them sheet maps on polt paper •
Besides the maps in the Britijh editions,
this work ivill contain maps of as rtar.y of the
i United States as can be readily procured, executed
by the beji engravers in the United States.
111. The price of cach number will be a quar
ter dollar, tp be paid on delivery.—ad
voice req: i ed.
IV. The work wi 14 he put to press as soon as
700 copies are fubferibed for.
V. Subscribers who disapprove of the
work, on the publication cf the three firft num
bers, are to be at liberty to return them, and
(hall have their money repaid.
VI. The fubferibers' names /hall be prefixed as
' p2troijs of the undertaking.
Perhaps there is no science more entertaining
and uleful than geography. It reveals the dis
coveries of travellers—the remarkable curiosities
of all countries, in nature and art—the fituari
on of provinces, cities, towns villages, rivers,
and mountains—in fine, the history, manners,
customs, laws, farces, revenues, and government
of different nation**
It is an old observation, that si there is not a
fen or daughter cf Adam, but has some concern
with geography," and that a knowledge of this
science is indilpenlable towards the ffudv of his
tory with advantage or fatisfa&ion. Indeed a
man unacquainted with if, cannot discourse on
t! e nmoft common newlpaper topic of the day
without betraying his ignorance.
So much for geography generally* With ref
pstt to the prel'ent plan, let it fuffice to remark,
thatGuthrie's Geography has been long acknow--
Judged to be the best in the English language;
however, the account of America in it has, fiom
obvious reasons. been very erroneous and defec
tive. The errors of former editions will be cor'-
re&ed, and the defetfs fuj.plied, by gentlemen of
abilities, who have engaged to superintend this
undertaking, and to "avail of all th«
information that can be procured, to render it
the most complete edition extant.
The Printer earneltly fjfidts the support of
his fellow citizens throughout ihcf-United States :•
and as no deposit is required, and every fubferu
berwill be at liberty to withdraw his name, if,
on trial, he fiiould disapprove of the work, he
hopes the friends of science, and of Americamarts
and manufactures will cheerfully aau early pat
ronize this ufeful work, the greatest and jnoft
ex pen five., probably, ever yet attempted inAme
jica, in the tipograpical line, the Encyclopedia
excepted.
Phila. Nov. 9th. 1792. iawtf
Terres a Vendre
Dans un pais b-icn peuple
S AVOIR, foixante cinq milie, trois cens, fo>x
ante et quatoize Acres, en une feale piece,
dans le canton le mieux peuple de la Caroline Me
ridioßale, le Diftiidt de Ninety -Six. Ces terres
font lituees dans une contree aureable, et falubre,
ou les fievres font inconnuesj a environ vingt lieues
de Colombie, ]a Capitalc, et contigues ala ville
de Cambtidge, cu il y a College, et Cour fuperi
eure. A environ douze Jiev.es, ily a bonne navi
gation ; et il ell ties probable, que dans quelque
tems on rendra navigable le Grand Saiude, riviere
qui arrofe ies terres memes. El les font agreable
ment diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons charmanfc
propres a ;a culture du tabac, du coton, du mais
et du petit ; et dent une proportion confioer
able fe peu-t aiicment convertir en prairies fertiles,
ii n epeut-etre gueres po/lible de rencontrer une
pare!!!e picce ce terre a dans aucun autre
des Etats Unis ; et pour les conditions de l'achat,
on les rendra ties commodes.
S'informer a J'imprimerie de la Gazette Na
tional. Sept. 5.
LANDS for SALE,
~-J"N T a well fettled Coontrt'. SIXTY-FIVE
JL THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY-FOUR AOt£S OF LAND, in one
body, in the nioft populous part (if the state of
South-Carolina, in the <ii!hi'a of Ninety-fix---It
is fuuatcd in a fine healthy climate,freefiom fever
& ague.afioot sixty miles i'rom Columbia, the feat
ot government. '1 he lar.J is contiguous to the
town of Cambridge, where are a feu,;, r iaiv for the
inftru&icm iff youth, and a fuperiur law xourf, it
is at present within about thifty-ifivfe miles of good
navigation, with a prffbaWKtyof having the river
called the Great Saluaa, that flows along one f;da
of the land, made navigable. The land is bea-jti
fuJly diverlifwd into swells and vafcs, and is per
feilly well calculaSed for the culture of tobacco
cotton, Indian-corn, and small grain; a great
proportion of it may be made meadow ground.
There is not, perhaps, lush a body of land, focil
cumftanced, for sale in any otherof the U-. Sfates.
The terms of payment v . iH be made convenient to
the purchrrfer or purchafsis. Apply to the Print,,-
A u-guft 29. , awtf
PRINTED BY
G HILDS and, SWA IN E
AT THEIR OFFICE NO. 209, H ICH-S TR EI T
NtAR FI?TH-STRIE T ,
PHILADELPHIA.