: f I,
Vol. I.
i,r the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
(Sidney concluded.)
On the Injuflict ej the EXCISE LAVv
and the Secretary's REPORT.
r^~ IIIEl lIE aniinadverfions which I have
A made upon the Report refpeftin?
the exCile afford unanl werable proofs
in of the o't fervations that 1
formerly presented to the public, upon
the evil ot referring the bulineis of ori
ginating revenue lyltems to the iecrcta
ry of the treasury ; lor, although i will
admit that there are few men more ca
pable of discharging that task, yet nc
individual ought to be entrusted with a
depolit, wmch is of such high eftima
lion in the opinion of the people, that
its polleilion and exercise are veiled by
a constitutional provilion, exclusively
in that member ot the legislative body
that flows immediately from tiiemlelves,
and is luppole.d to be molt completely
iniprelfed with a fenfeof their interests,
and aknowlcdgeof their circumstances.
i'lom the statement of fa£ts that I
have made, it will be evident, that the
public debt, even after the hnal lettle
ment with 1 c ltates, would piobably
haye been .nirty mill ions Jess than it is,
and that at the lame nms the constitu
tional ob.igation would have been ful
filled, and the contracts equitably fatis
fied, agreeably to the reaionabie wilhes
oi the creditors of the union, if inltead
ot inviting the fabucation of an artifi
cial lyftem, by a general reference to
the lCcretary, ihemeaiurc oijufticehad
been originally fettled and diftubuted
in the house of representatives, accord
ing to the trust repoled in them. Had
that been the cale, the principles would
have been publicly dilcuifeu, and uni
verlally known, 111 all the stages of the
bulineis ; and that monstrous and dif
graceiul scene ot 1 peculation, by which
individuals were lwindled out of their
property, and a foundation laid for lalt
mg dilfention between the different
paits of the union would have been ef
fectually prevented. It is an undenia
ble fatt, that the lpeculators travelled
from the leat of government to the molt
diitwint parts of the union, as soon as the
members of Congrels leturned to their
homes at the dole of the leffion, in
which the bulineis was referred to the
secretary ; indeed there was something
very cruel in the speculations made on
the Itate debts ; for as, the original
holders had no claim upon Congress,
and as their cafe was not relerr , , o the
secretary, they could have no a jprehen
fion that provilion was to be made for
them by the general government : the
tran'aftion, therefore, being condjfted
under an evident deception, the bar
gain was void, in equity, it not in law.
The blame, however, would lie entire
ly on the house i t representatives, if
, the secretary had undertaken to make
provilion lor no more than the domeltic
debt, which was fairly included in the
reference to him ; and from the difficul
ty with which the alfumption palled in
Congress, and the lmall majority with
which it was decided, it is highly pro
bable it never would have iucceedcd,
if the speculations which had been
made with a view to that atrangement,
had not procured votes in its favor, and
if the paltry question of the relidence
• f Congress had not been connected
with it. Even the recent debates on
the excile law, afforded an instance of
the degradingeffefts of referring the re
venue bufinels in this fafhionable mode.
"Wash not beneath the dignity of reorc
fentatives in Congress to rife with the
report of the secretary in their hand,
iind repeat again and again, the alfer
tions it contained as faQs ; and that too,
after those aflertions had been contra
<h£ied by the concurrent teflimony of
many members who spoke openly, and
fiora perfonai knowledge, end who in
By P. FREN EA U : Publijhtd Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum,
THURSDAY, May 24, 1792.
vain called for the vouchers, for the
truth of the secretary's assertions ! I»it
just to their trust that members of Con
gress should implicitly adopt, without
previous information or confirmatory
documents, all the affertionsof a person
who had no legislative relponfibility !
that they fliould pertinaciously adhere
to his doctrines against the clearest tes
timony of the fallacy and mifckicf with
which they are fraught !
I am willing to concede that the de
cifion which eniued was not of the firfi
importance, a.-, the law can yet be re
pealed or rcvifed, without breaking the
faith of government ; but, I hope, tha
the manner in which the bufmefswa:
conducted, will afford a lading lelfor
against any future references, for limi
lar purpoles, to an executive officer.
Before I conclude, let me suppose the
excise law to be repealed ; that spirit:
from home produce fliould be left on
the fame footing as cider, or any othei
produce of the farm (as it is equally en
titled to the prote&ion of government'
that the tax upon rum of all forts should
be continued, or even encreafed, and
that Ipirits of domestic produce and
manufacture might then be so much en
couraged, as to be made in greater per
fection, and wholly fuperlede the uie
of rum in the United States ; I ask.
even under this fuppolition, would
any bad confluences affect the people
j of the United btates P—No—for, on the
contrary, I maintain, the result would
be, that industry would be promoted
more grain would be raii'ed, and if the
liquor, thus brought to perfection,found
a demand in foreign markets, it would
hp ; n a more portable £oi ui. WirO evel
knew a country injured by manufactur
ing its own materials to the best advan
tage, either for domestic consumption
or exportation; especially when the
manufacture requires so few hands, in
proportion to the quantity that can be
prepared, as the di I tilling bulinefs does ?
Besides, such an event would alio en
courage the mills, the coppei-fmiths,&c,
When the affairs of Europe are fettled
into a calm, and their own crops area
gain fufficicnt to funply their wants,
which from the prevalence of liberty
and the improving taste" for agriculture
that prevails there, must soon be the
cafe, the manufacturing grain into spi
rits may become an important object
both to the agricultural and commercial
interests ; and th .n, when perhaps toe
late, a facrifice of the interests of the
fanner apd aiftiller of whiskey in the
United States to the sugar and rum ol
the Weft-Indies, will be found impoli
tic and unjust. If'government did noi
| receive as much revenue in imports oi
excises, the citizens could the better af
lord to pay taxes, in a way more con
genial to their liberty, and more suita
ble to the principles of the government.
I am led into this train of thinking by
observing, that when the house agreed
j to lower the excise upon spirits prepar-
I ed from home produce ©nc cent, belo-:v
| what the secretary had dictated, some
gentlemen were as much alarmed, with
j the dangerous confequenccs which they
j apprehended would ensue, as if the go-
I vernment were to be dissolved by the
; iate of that question. Some may, in
j deed, alledge, that if the manufactuie
jof whiskey was encouraged, drunken
-1 ness would be encreafed ; byt this ap
| prehension is not fupportcd by a know
j ledge of mankind. I have found from
tan attentive experience, that no people
I are more free from drunkenness than
jthofe who keep spirits in their houses
conflantly. and none more subject to
| it, than those who can get it but occa
sionally: the drunkard will have it, if
jhe fliould want his shirt. Who does
not know that the extra appetites are
not to be fubduedbv partial restraints r
nothing less than a total prohibition wili
| produce the effect. In the parts of this
j country, where tobacco can tc had frosr
I 6d to \f-3. pound, few use it in any man-
I ncr ; while in European countries,
where a man labours for 4<i or 6d a day,
and where the rulers have by taxes rail
ed tobacco to 3fg a pound, and fnuff to
15s. almost every man indulges an arti
ficial taste for InufF or tobacco. It is
well known thai drunkenness has great
ly increased in Britain and Ireland,
under the restraints of exorbitant ex
cises. Government has enough to do
without attempting to regulate people's
appetites with respect to the use of the
produce of their farms ; an object which
mull be more effectually accomplilhed
by example by coercion.
I think that it mult be apparent to
the observation of every candid mind,
1 that the import (for the levying and ap
plication of which, theconftruction and
powers of the general government, were
well adapted) would have been more
than fufficient to pay the interest of the
foreign and domertic debt, which was
the only object that claimed from Con
gress an immediate provision; while
the large sums that were due for lands
which had been a&ually fold, and the
produce of contrasts then daily offered
by individuals for the purchase of ex
ten five tracts, must have furnifhed an
important auxiliary rcfource. But this
foundation was incapable of sustaining
the magnificent and ponderous fifcal fa
bric,which it was deligned to erett, and
could not admit that ample range of au
thority, to which the genius of the mi
nister aspired. Thus limited, the a&ive
principles of avarice and ambition,
could not have been enlisted under the
banner of the revenue department ;
nor could that department have arro
gantly affected to be called the govern
ment itielf, or insidiously railed against
the cenl'urers of its measures, the charge
of being enemies to the eonftitution.
Hence we trace the motive, and on
the records of Congress we cftablifh
the fact, that the secretary proposed
and procured the afTumption of the slate
debts, and the revival of the obsolete,
if not fatisfied, claim of the facilities to
the amount of near forty millions of
dollars ; an event which was not con
templated by the holders of those kinds
of certificates; which was not provi
ded for by the eonftitution ; which is
not founded in the contrast; and which
could not upon any legitimate conftrup
tion of the relolution, be generated by
the reference from Congress.
It is true, that about a seventh part
of the state debts, dated in his propor
tion, was left unaffumed ; but it is alio
true, that he and iiis friends have, with
unwearied diligence and perseverance
endeavoured to extend the alfumption ;
and that too, at a period when the final
settlement of the accounts between the
union and its leveral members, is at the
eve of being completed, and will leave
nothing to chance and corijefture.
The uncertainty of the operation, mud,
indeed be obvious, and consequently its
iujuftice. A large proportion of the
revenue that is paid from the public
tieafury to the individual states, is, in
fa£t, bestowed on account of debts which
have already been discharged, agreeably
to the principles of the confederation
and the terms of the contrasts ; or for
which competent internal funds were
appropriated. The money therefore,
is taken without necessity, from the
pockets of the people, to be paid per
haps to such states as will, upon the
final settlement, be found in debt to the
.union. And what was the o,jje£t of
this rapid and unnatural extension of
the revenue system P The design is best
explained by the effect,
It was neceftary to enable the mini-
I iter to try his hand upon the admini
stration of internal powers, and to buoy
up rjnnifteiial influence by an exten
i five patronage ofappointmcnts to office.
: for it is well known, that internal r<~-
| venues require a much S r v.ter number
Numb. 60.
of officers to fuperintei d and enforce
their colledlion, than thole revenues
which are colle£ted at the ports of trade ;
and if thole officers could be rendered,
relpcctable, they would naturally ac
quire gieat inlluence among the people.
Kvery office, belides the occupant, is
lour.d uniformly to attach a number of
expectants to the minister's interest ;
and, consequently, as I have already re
marked, the passions of avarice and
ambition will be prompt to succour and
support his views. To use the Secre
tary's own language, it will prevent a
competition with the ftategovernments.
Let the states receive their fubliftance
like pensioners, from the minister; and
let every kind of revenue be in polfef
fion of the general government : and
then, no doubt, the state governments
themselves will become agents for that
ministerial influence, on which they
must be as dependant, as the place-meii
and pensioners that encircle the Britilh
throne. Thus the federal constitution
may continue to guarantee the forms of
republican governments to the reipec
tive states, when the powers and uses
are annihilated ; as the imperial tyrants
prelerved the form of the common -
wealth of Rome, aft;r its energy and
freedom were destroyed. The states,
upon a similar policy, may individually
be permitted, like the Roman Senate,
to convene ; but not, alas! as princi
pals in the political drama—as tools of
state, to prop up usurpation, and
gull the people with ideal conference.
But let us reflect, for a moment, upon
the structure of the government, under
which such unbounded powers are.
to be exercised. I have already obferv
cd, that the federal judiciary, according
to its present organization, is by no
means calculated to sustain so vast a do
minion ; and every judicious politician
must anticipate the remark that even
the House of Representatives must ne
celfarily be too limited in point of
numbers, and in point of information,
will poflefs too little knowledge of the
citizens, and too feeble a participation
in the particular circumstances of the
lubjects of taxation. This was, in fact,
evident in the cafe of excise, which was
recently debated in Congress : and,
therefore, on such occasions the mem
bers will depend upon the official infor
mation of the minister, who must like
wile be often ignorant or misinformed,
rclpecting those interests and circum
stances with which hecan havenoprac
tical acquaintance,and which has also
been deinonftrated by the report that
has given rife to these strictures. When
we consider the extent of territory, the
variety of circumstances and the inter
ference of interests, which are cmbra
:ed by the general government, we {hall
3 e tempted to believe, that a rcprefent
ation, fufficiently numerous, could not
deliberate in one house ; that the prcv
aominant interfering interests would
icize the proper opportunities to op
press, and that th« ministerial inllu
-nce would lend its too powerful aid
n tavor of the stronger faction.
If the House of Representatives is
to the purposes of internal
legifl.ation, what will we fay of the Se
nate ? 1 his branch, on the firft impref-
Qon, appears to be too small in number
to poflelsthe interests, or to contain the
information neceftary for internal legil
lation ; but even if it were more nume
rous, the extraordinary inequality of
the distribution of its members, is total
ly destructive of every principle of a re
presentative govefnment for internal
purposes. The local interest and infor
mation of one half of the people of the
United States, are not, in any proper
sense, represented in that body, nor is
there any practicable principle laid
down in the constitution, by which it
can be reformed. Thus, we fee from
one part of the union a member of thefenalft reprcfenting lei's thah 30.000;
and from another part, a member re
presenting more than ten times that
number. If we had no other proof,
this is lufficient to demonflrate, that the
federal government never was intended
to embrace extenlive internal powers ;
and that the.powers of that kind which
it poifelles, were only intended for em-
in which the prelervation of
the government itfclf was at nfque ; but
ought ever to be cxelcifcd with a fpa
j-ing hand, and only in cases juftified by
extreme neceflity. Surely, it Congrels
had not been fur.>rized into the mealure,
if too many of the members had not
been unduly influenced by speculating
interells, and if the House of Represen
tatives had not unfortunately been a
very unequal, consequently, a very par
tial reprelentation of the people, (as
the census lately taken has proved be
yond contradiction) those impolitic and
t njufl exertions of internal authority,
■which dilgrace and repudiate the records
of two or three fefTions of Congress,
would not have been exercised for ages.
Though a powerful party, combined by
a common band of union, may clamoui
in support of the minister's measures,
by means of which their table is madt
plentiful and their cup overflows ; ant
though those who fuller in this fatal
career of a triumphant faction, may al
prelent, be unconnected and difperled.
yet the impartial page of hiflory will
present the flory to posterity, in and its
native treachery and deformity, all the
offspring of the very men, that now
glory in success, (hall execrate the bane
ful policy, and blulh at the remembrance
of their anceflors.
I am confident, indeed, that an equal
representation will prevent, thof? un
due exertions of internal power; bul
who alas ! shall cure the ills that have
already been introduced ? Government
011 some particular occasions, has the
power of sanctioning measures the mif
chiefs of which can never be counter
acted, nor the remembrance of them ob
literated.
But here let me pause :—Whcthei
Iliften to the volatile chit-chat of pri
vate circles ; or to the solemn debates
of public bodies, I am equally appre
hensive, upon a review of these elfays,
that all the guards of language, all
the profeffions of sentiment, will not
protest me from the detestable imputati
on of being an enemy to the govern
ment, and a foe to public credit:
but I deserve it not ; and as far as a
scanty fortune, and a life that has alrea
dy passed the meridian, can promote the
welfare of my country, I will provoke
thetcft. I feel myfelf bound, indeed,
by every tie of private and of public
hope, to refpeft and to support the con
ilitutioa; and were I even of opinion,
that that work, partaking of the nature
of every human composition, is imper
fc£t. vet I would never desire to purify
and reform it bv the flame of popular
resentment, or the forceof political con
vuliioti. The means of amendment arc
incorporated in the instrument itfclf ;
and the exigency of our affairs, or the
corruption of our officers, mud be great
indeed, before a good man can with, or
a bold man will attempt, to remove a
(odftitutional grievance, in any other way.
Ir is not, however, the constitution that
ha; given rife to these publications; but
the conduit of the officers who have been
fele.-ted to adimnifter the public affairs. It
is alike arrogant and absurd to confound
object; that are in themselves so perfectly
dtitinit. I there any thingin the conltitn
tion th it prefenbes the fanciful ftru&are ot
the prov uon or the public debt? thatcom
mand an ailuinptioa of the obligations
which the (late-, individually have contract
ed > that functions a transfer of the leg illa
tive truit to :tie executive department?
that juitlies the imposition of an onpre'live
excifo upc:i ai article of dome't.c produce
arid manufacture, merely to discharge a
deb t created by an act of supererogation ?
—I i fa£t, is there any one of the minister's
m ?afures, in its form and operation, that is
the neco'i'ary offspring of our frame of go
vernment? a'o: one ! fcvery plan that he
ha pro io.ed is not what the constitution
d'rt e but what he thinks is the belt mode
he public bnfinefs; and surely we
tii iv, as free agents entitled to theexercifc
or' !tir own judgment, and as free men in
terfiled i tne exercise of his judgment
de .'i 1 trate that he has t ought wrong
w :i out being itigmatifed as traitors to the
con i v.t,on. What is there in the Station 01
c r of thebecr'.tary, that (ball confe •
this monopoly o* perfection, this inviolable
la., edaefs of opinion and 6ondact! Is he su
perior to the Sovereignty of the union, to
:he organ of the government:
Who thall be bold, or base enough to fay.
hat his meai'ures are removed from all scru
tiny, from all fulpicion of error, when, da
ring a single feiiion, we find CongreO
the representatives of the people, the great
depositary of our social intereltsand happi
net's twice told that their acts are incoaipa
tible with the constitution, injurious, tin
jult, and nugatory !
Nor will my objection to the excise sup
port an imputation, that I am an enemy t<
public credit. If this tax had aril'en frou
an unavoidable neceflity; if an artificial
debt had not been created, in order togivs
a piaulible pretext for laying it; and if nc
relburce, more eligible, more productive
ahd more congenial to the fpiric of the peo
ple, could be discovered; I should hav<
been lilent ; for, I am fenlible, I am anxi
ous, that the faith and honour of the unioi
should at all events be maintained- But J
have demonstrated that the state of th<
question is far different; and candor wil
readily acquit me of a wifli to injure pub
lie credit, merely because I disapprove o
the means which the Secretary has employ
ed, has he alledges, to preserve it. So far
indeed, am I from entertaining that diflio
norabie delign, thiit, even hostile as thof<
means a r e to the virtue, the property ant
the indultry of the people, I Jlia.ll endea
vor to inculcate obedience, with ail the lit
tie influence of my example and advice
Inftruitive time may produce official con
vktion, and temperate perseverance wil
obtain popular relief.
To tne Secretary of the Treasury fom<
apoiogy may be proper for the freedon
and latitude of my remarks : but, I trust
when my opinions are weighed by their re
lative facts, it will be thought fufficient tc
request, that my language may be appliet
to the subject, and not to the author of tin
Report. S'fDNEi'.
■■wmimwi:■ . ■■ . —
From th: American Daily Advertiser.
A COMPARISON between the Prom'.fes am
t'ie Effects of the lunuing System, fub
mittcd. to :heJcrious attention ojthe CiUzim of th
United States.
XN the report of the Secretary of th<
Treasury fp;' the supporting public cre
dit, and the defence of it wh'ch was mads
by many members of Congress, we ar<
told, that tne funding fyltem would pro
duce the following effects:
Fir't— That it would put a flop to fpecu.
latioii by railing certificates to their nomi
nal value.
Has this been the cafe ? On the contrary
has it not encreafed the number of fpecu
lators in our country, an hundred foitl ?—
has it not drawn merchants, lawyers, doc
tors, parsons, tradesmen, farmers, women
and even apprentice-boys, from their ordi
nary occupations, to dabble in the flocks
to the disgrace of our country, and to th<
ruin of many thousands, once valuable ant
ufefnl citizens ?
Secondly—We were told that the certifi
cates, when they rose to par, would be
come a medium of trade, and that house.
and farms would be bought and fold foi
them.
This prediction has not been verified ir
a single intaace.
Thirdly—We were told, that the capitals
acquired by funding the debt, would
employed in extending our commerce and
and manufactures.
This is so far from (jeing true, that both
have lessened during the last year. Our ex
ports amounted to three million dollars less
in the year 1791, than in the year 1790.
Fourthly—We were told that the fund
ing fyitem would reltore public and private
credit, particularly that it would beget
confidence between man and man.
Has this been the cafe ?—if it lias, how
tlo we hear so much of ufur oiis and frau
dulent contracts, and why are the epithets
of l\vindler, rogue, villain, See. so freely
handed about in our newspapers and at e
very corner of the streets of New-York
and Philadelph'a ? So far from begetting
confidence between man and man, :t has
entirely destroyed it.
Fifthly—We we e told that the funding
fyitem would eftabiiihour credit abroad.
'1 hat Ij, obtain us a fine character among
the Jew-brokers in Loudon and Ainlter
dam. If it has produced this effect for a
few months, it will be only to fink our 11a
uonal credit and character into deeper* dis
grace than ever, as soon as the infamous
transactions in New- 1 ork, .which blew up
and burited the late swindling bubble, shall
be known in Europe.
Here ;t is worthy of notice that an a
larm was lately lpread leit our certificate.
ihould get into the hands of foreigners.—
Why tiien did our Congress take so much
pains to recommend them to a foreign mar
ket by prolonging tlie time of their redemp
tion, or by making any part of them irre
deemable '.
Sixthly—V. e were to'd that the funding
lyftem would lower the interest of money
to live and tour per cent*, per annum.
Has it had thiseifect ?—On the contrary,
has it not raised the mtereft of money to 2,
4> 6, 7, and even 8 per cent, per
month {
Thus have I briefly ftarcu fix f.tifr.oor!
which, by being obtruded 01 tia: _ood ••
pie of-the United States huw .preciprau •!
our country in two short years, from r!;-
height of national joy and profuerity to
the brink of ruin.
Had an interefi been voted on the debt
only for two years, the whole of that part
of it which had been alienated, might have
been brought up by the taxes of five yeirs.
aided by a land office. But if the taxes and
land-office had failed, money enough might
have been borrowed in Europe at four pet
cent for that purpose. Happy for the Ig
nited States would it have been if fuel:
measures had takei\ place ! It was in the
former of tho r e ways that the flares fun:-
the debts they contracted by war, w'lilt
they were British colonies. But our ruler;
had other views than to pay the debts o:
the United States. The fame spirit whicl
led them to debate a week about a fuita
ble title for the President of the Unitec
States, led them to adopt, a the furefi modi
of preparing our country for British mo
narchy and ariftocracv, all the corruption
of the British funding fyi'tem-
I know that it has been i'a : d that it i
wrong to reason agairift the life of an;
thing from its abuse. But funding fyltem
never had any life in them, but were crea
ted every where for abides of every kind
They have created nothing but wars, pen
fiou-lifts, expenfiye offices, ldienefs, prodi
gality, and slavery, in every nation ia Eu
rope. They sap the foundation of all pub
lie and private virtue, by making Lyin<
universal : for the profits of dealing in al
flocks arise out of Falsehoods.
How many rumours of peace and war,o
attachment and difaffeftion to the genera
government, of intended refigmuions, am
of the extravagant prices of our liocks ii
Loudon, have been invented, circulated
and then contradicted by ihe fame perfo.is
for the fa'-'.e of railing or finking the Arneri
can funds ? But no vice travels by itfelf
This practice of Lying has bee;i accompa
nied by fraud, chicanery, and villainy o
every kind, in all our cities and tradinj
towns.
How changed is our country from wha
it was in the years 1775 and 1776 ! Littl
did the patriots and heroes who eftablifnei
our liberties and independence with so mud
toil and blood, dream, that all their exploit
of virtue would so soon be rendered abor
tive, by the introduction of the mo!t cor
rupted part of the corrupt government o
Great Britain into our country.
There isone fact in the history of this vi
fionary, falfe, and definitive funding fyf
tem taat ought to be generally known, am
that i , that the outlines of it (as is now cur
rently said) were the o '\spring of the fcheni
ing brain of Mr. Duer.
I wish some person who is pofleSed o
the means of information, would iuforn
the public what funis of money were hei<
by the members of the lirft New-i'orl
Congress, who voted for perpetuating th
debt of the United States, and thereby so
annihilating the liberties of their country.
A Citizen of Philadelphia.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
A mew GRANT 10 AMERICA!
Mr. FRENE Au,
A ft ERG ATOR, in a late New- Jersey pa
per, aflerts that " the p/ivilege if wn
ting and Jpeaktng without reserve mas
to the people of America \l-By tohimt was i
granted ? who had the power of granting it
was it the old Gongrei's ? or the new Con
grefs ? or the Convention ? As well nigh
any of those bodies boa:t of having grante
us the faculty of speech, or thej ouero
using our hands, as the privilege of writinj
and {peaking; As well might a bJby boai
of having begotten his grandfather ! Th
privilege existed, before they exiited : i
gave birth to them, not they' t:> it. 1.0
before the world ever dreamed of a Con
grefs or a Convention, the citizens of Ame
rica enjoyed the privilege of writing aoi
speaking without reserve ; and if they hat
not boldly exercised it 111 the mollperilon
times, there would not at this day be :
Congress in existence.
The People themjifacs have thought prope:
to retain the privilege, as their inherent right
not as a boon granted to them by then ox< 1
Jirvants. Thole servants of the public nevei
ventured to meddle with it, btcaijc they wcl
knew they had 110 more authority to de
priv<S their employers of the freedom offpeecl
and writing, than to pluck out their tongue,
and cut oft'their hands.
It, when the Federal Conftitutron *va
in embryo, any man had aliened in Merca
| tor's words, " thai it would be beneficial to la
rjlriflions on the prejs," would the Conven
tion have adopted his advice? would the\
have dared to make the attempt ? would tin
present Congress, omnipotent as they ap
pear, venture to make it ? If ever they do.
■it will be by indirect means, such as, taxing
the neufpapcrs ; increaling the tax so as to jlcj.
their circulation \ introducing a Jlamp 011 lome
one article ; affixing it by degrees to others,
till they finally set it upon the neafpapers ; anti
iaitly enabling arbitrary laws respecting li
bels.
T ,;1 neplla-. already been taken, that
of taxing the papers : a r i<i uti attempt has
V-l'h made* to introduce itaraps. Playing
c.trtls (the Sc.'spe-goat marked out for the
Itainp/ were already fubjeel lo a duty ex
ce -u the original value of the article :
and duty has'been more than doubled
by a late act. I r the title had been "An
a I encourage fwggUng,'" nobody would
have been furpnfed at the encreafe. Time
however will tell, whether the duty will
be lowered, to remove the temptation, 01*
the fmugglilig again alledged as a pretext for
the introduction of {tamps. But if once
they are introduced, who know; how soon
they may be laid on the newspapers ? and
whodofs net know that such ameafure would
give an immediate check to the liberty of
the prels, by railing the price of the papers,
diminilhing the number of readers, filer,c
ing many of the presses, and cutting bit so
many of the channels of information ?
This might be agreeable enough to some
peopie : it would certainly please Merca
tor, who thinks " that it would be bin final it)
lay rcjlri:litns on the prfs, and to make it crimina'
far mm either in anvejalion or in print, to an
fure the government, cr to calumniate its officers."
1 agree with him, that it is criminal to
calumniate an officer of government , but !
mult add that it is equally criminal to c -
lumniate any other citizen. And \\ hy not:
Every odier citizen pol'.efles equal rights,
and is entitled to etjual protection, with
Mercator h:mfelf,.or an, of his beloved of
ficers <>f government. I hope Merca
tor does noc with' to introduce mutual laws
granting peculiar privileges and immunities
to any one class of men above their feliow
citizens. If not, the existing laws are fuf
ficient, and alford immediate redress to e
very citizen, without diltinction, against a
ny man who calumniates hm. The officers
of government are therefore secure from
calumny: but why i'creen them from censure ?
why not censure them, when they do wrong?
and if they are obltinate, and not
ed by gentle reproof, why not censure them
again and again with encreafing feveriiy,
till they acknowledge their errors, and re
turn to their duty f
Tell me, Mercator, were those men set
up, to lord it over the land ? Did the citi
zens of America, while wading through
seas of blood to reach the mount of inde
pendence—did they ever dream that it
would be deemed criminal in them to censure
the misconduct of their ftrvants y What
greater lengths could a Portuguese inquisi
tion proceed to, than you have recom
mended ? What ? abridge even the free
dom of private convcrj'ation ? Were you in
jest, Mercator ! or were you feriotis r if se
rious, why not advance one Jlep farther, to e
fablifh an inquisition, where every citizen fliall
be obliged to declare on oath his molt pri
vate thoughts refpeifing the officers of govern
ment, and be punifhedif he even thinks unfavor
able- of them ?
But you tell us, as the chief reason, why
" it would be beneficial to lay reltriction<
on the prels" that u some individuals have net
fuj'jicient rrfolution to refrain from alufing their
rights, ' T rue, Mercator 1 you, for mltance,
have abuled yours*. A few others also
have done the fame, who have reviled with
m tidied hariiincfs of language, every writer
that pointed out any error in the adminif
t ration of tiie government. They have u
led invective inilead of argument,imitating
ill their foberfenfes the sutrageous conduct
of maniacs jn a mad-house, who for want
of other weapons, di charge their perfumcrv
in the facts of those they dislike
But the abuses committed by three or
lour printers, and by you, Mercator, are no
more a reason lor dflroying the liberty of the
prrjs, than the intemperance of a few indi
viduals is for prohibiting the distillation of
fp-.rits. The abule, in either cafe, is onlv
taken up a; a cloak, to cover a design of a
nother nature. It may be remembered
that the or ginal tide of the Excise Law
was" An ail (among other fine things) to
difeourage the excrjjivt use of Spirits, and to pro
vide for the genet uL welf are." Theie pompous
profeflions at firlt a.ifwered a ufeful pnr-
P°fe to those who prefied them imo the ser
vice : they were afterwards discarded as
useless servants ; and it proved, after all,
to be nothing more than. An act to take
money out of the people's pockets, " and to
appropriate th.fame" In like manner, if Con
gress (in open violation of a solemn oaths)
lliousd adopt your ideas, and carry them in
to ala a l , whatever oothing title they may
give it at tint, it will m the end prove "An
#8 tctti/ceura-r the reading if new papers, and to
drjlrty the libei t y cf the press."
(iougrels may infringe the liberty of
the pref in any one instance, why not in
every other : why not abolish it entirely if
they choose ? and if the liberty of thepreft
is (.nee deitroyed or fettered, what check
u ill then remain on those who ad'minitter
the government ? May they not ast as they
pleate, when nobody will dare to censure
■if Mercator has defended to harsh language,
and calling names, such as" enemies to public
quiet, &c.
t The third article of amend :<nt, now a part oj
the cor.dilution, fays, " Ccngrefs ihall make no
law abridging the freedom cf speech, or of the
press."-They cannot pass any such law, vithcxi
venuruttinr wilful perjury.s r expose their mTconducl ? Responsibility
is mentioned ! but what is refponjibility ?— A
fine founding word, of lis. Ty 11 able..
The British nation taik of refponlibility :
yet a corrupt parliament and a corrupt mi
hiiJrv lead them by theno:.-:, and oppref
and plunder them at pleasure.
If the fe'rvants of the people in this coun
try are permitted to ast as they please,
without being liable to cenfire in print or tven
in private conversation, what security will we
then have for our liberties, our properties,
or our lives ? —The fame that the French
nation had, when liable, at the nod of their
monarch cr his mmifter.-:, to be torn from
their families, and plunged into the dun
geons of the Baftile, withoutevm knowing
of what crime they were fufpe&ed.
May 22. CORRECTOR.
rv«;.. —-— ' r.'.ix— —— 1
PHILADELPHIA.
MAY 24, 1792.
Appointments : —Joseph Howell, Accoun
tant to tiie War department; and Calei
| Pr.y-mafter toti.e army in the western
tet rilory.
Repor'.s h-ive been in circulat'on that the
Bank of the United State , had fullered hea
vy lofies from the many failures in New-
Y : :.d 1 few in this city. It. is said.
however, that the Bank has not fultainec
ti.'e loss of a single dollar —forefreing the
evil tendency of the late wild speculations
the directors took early precautions, andb;
prudent management have secured the ban!
completely.
The old American company of Come
dians are arrived in this city from New-
York; and, it is said. intend opening the
theatre in Southwarkfome time next week
We are informed that very large sales oi
lands, the property of the fiate of Pennsyl
vania. have been recently made—and folc
on such principles, and in fach quantities a:
will induce a (peedy population of the fame
Such is t;;e present fuuation of affairs ir
molt of th ; European dates, that we maj
reafont.bly expect great emigrations to this
afvlum of freedom.
The Grand jury of the Circuit Court oi
the state of l eorgia h->.ve recommended tc
Congress a total repeal of the Kxc'fe Laws;
" conceiving chem opprefiive and dangerou:
in a free country, and the word mode oi
taxation that can pofllbly be devised by anj
government."
A Virginia paper mentions an incnrfior
of a pirty of Indians to t!?e head waters o'.
Duukc" Creek, about the a;th of April,
when they committed several murders ii
The lettlements about that part —a Mr. Leg
v as taken off by the party, with two of hi:
children —as also one Honfacre, his wife, <
young woman, and fire children —Mr- an<
Mrs. Honfacre were both killed, and theii
young child; not being : b'.e to keep Us
with the savages on their march.—A parrj
of militia went in purfnit next day but conic
not overtake the Indians—they howevei
buried the unfortunate Honfacre, his wist
and child.
On the 19th instant the Delaware pilot'
chose a committee of three of their body
to deliver up their branches at the War
den's office. 011 the fame day another com
mittee of pilots was chosen to inform the
public, aijd those more particularly con
cerned, that they would 011 the 2 ift instant
meet and confer with any number of gen
tlemen in this city, appointed by the mer
chants, to fettle the price of pilotage.—Foi
fear, however, a Speedy accoaimodatior
lhould not immediately take place, the mer
chants and wardens have directed fevera'
leading marks, beacons and buoys to be sta
tioned in different parts of the river and
bay.
On the 3d instant a commencement foi
degrees in the Arts \va« held at Dickinfor
College in Cariife. Thirty four gentle
men were graduated Bachelors of Arts ,
the degree of Matter of Art, was conferred
on ten ; and of Ooftor in Divinity 011 four.
In the answer of the king cf the French
to the letter of the emperor of Germany,
(dated March ift) the former positively re
fufes-to " enter into any discussion on fub
jecls which concern only the internal situa
tion of the kingdom, as being i.oconliftent
with the dignity and independence of the
nation." —" He cannot fee, without pain,
a concert of powers which ha>; no juftifiable ob
ject. and therefore demands a prompt, frank
and categorical answer relative to the de
figtis of the present preparations : —and as
a pledge of reciprocal good faith, he pro
mises that as soon as the Emperor {hall en
ter into an engagement to desist from all
warlike preparations in his dates, and to
reduce the military forces in the Nether
lands and in Brifkaw, to the footing on
v. hich they were on thefirft of April 1791,
his Majesty will equally desist from all pre
parations, and will restore the French troops
on the Frontiers to the ordinary ftateof the
garrison. It is by agreeing to this deter
mination, the only one which bccomes the
dignity of two grtat powers, and their ref
pe&ive intererts, that the king will recog
eize the sentiments which he has a right to
expect from his brother-in-law, and from
the ancient ally of France. In fine, aftei
an invitation so sincere and precise; the king
:annot find in any answer which does not
>ear the fame characters, any other than ;
tefireto prolong a fit nation in which France
'.either can nor will remain much longer.'
"Scarcely anything (fays Mr.Paine) pre
ents a more degrading character of nation
.l greatness, than its being thro wnihto con
iillon by any thing happening to, or a£fec
iy, an individual; and the ridiculonfnefi
if the fceneis often encreafed by the natu
al infignificance of the person by whom il
s occalioned. Were a government so con
tracted, that it could not go on untefs ;
;oofe or a gander were present in the fe
late, the difficulties would be ju(t as greal
md as real on the flight or fickuefs of tht
;oofe, or the gander, as if it were called ;
:ing. We laugh at individuals for the fillj
lifficulties they make to themfelres with
>ut perceiving, that thegreateft of all ridi
ulous things are aCted in governments.''
It is related, that in the canton of Berne
n SwilTerland, it had been customary. f/on
inie immemorial, to keep a bear at th'.
>üblic expence, and the people had bee:
aught to believe, that if they had not ;
>ear, they should all be undone. It hap
>ened some years ago, that the bear, thei
n being, was taken sick and died too fud
ienly to have his place immediately fuppli
r d with another. During this interregnum
:he people discovered that the corn grew
ind the vintage flourifhed, and the fun am
noon continued to rife, and every thin,
iveut on the fame as before, and, takin;
:ourage from these circumstances, they re
olved not to keep any more bears : " so
laid they)a bear is a very voracious expen
ive animal, and we were obliged to pul
Jut his claws, left he should hurt the citi
lens."
On Friday last, arrived here in eigh
.veeks from Sierra Leona, the brig Catha
'ine, Capt. Nicols, one of the fleet whicl
a:led from Halifax in the month of Febru
iry last, with about 1100 free blacks, deft
ned to form a settlement on the Coast o
Africa, under the fuperintendance of Lieu
enant John Clarkfon. agent of the Sierr;
Leona Company in England. Thewhoh
:>t the fleet, thirteen fail, arrived fafe at tht
jlace of destination, though numbers of tin
jlacks died on the palTage. The iandin;
)t these people was at firft opposed by tht
latives, but they were upon peaceabh
:erms when Capt. Isicols failed from th<
The country appeared very fer
:ile, and the new inhabitants were emplo;
.'d in clearing the ground and making the
leceflary preparations for the acfommoda
.ion of their wives and children. Upon tin
ivhole, the settlement bore a very promif
ng aspeCt, and the enterprise, so far, ap
leared to answer the expectations of its be
levolent projectors.
" If we look over the measures purfuec
vith respect to our revenue laws (fays th<
>ofton Independent Chronicle) we fh;il
ind, that the principal part of the fyften
idopted, is a mere eopy of British aCt:
>f Parliament. The FUNDING SYS
TEM, that source of perplexity, lias fervee
10 other purpose, than to create a host o;
peculators ; who, bv their wanton nego
:iations have ruined thousands of widow:
md orphans, and thrown commerce, ant
.'very other beneficial employment, intt
he grcateft distress and embarraflment.—
peculators have swarmed like locusts in e
isry part of the United States ; our sea
iorts are particularly infeP.ed with tliem
md the exchanges of New-York, Philadel
phia, and Boston (those ancient places o
ommerce) arc now become in a great de
cree, the difgraceful residence of stock-job
)ers.
By engrafting into the government oi
he United States the pernicious principle:
)f the British nation, we have introduced
?ven at this early period, all the evils whicl
or centuries have been growing and ripen
ug among that people.
There is more ftock-jobb'ng praCtised i:
\merica, upon our funding system, than ii
he oldest country in Europe. The capi
al failures which have taken place withir
i fpw months, evidently prove the fata
endency of its operation. The system it
elf has generated the bubble, and produc
ed these destruCtive consequences, beinj
alculated altogether upon uncertainty anc
ntricacy, those genuine parents of Specula
:ion."
A gentleman jutl arrived this city fron:
Mew-Orleans, v.liich place he left about «
xionth ago, informs that five hundred men hat!
urived there fiom the Spanish i[lands, and tiial
Dne thousand more were expected.
An advertisement appears in a daily paper ol
TueQay, dating that '• the friends of Mr. Hodg
son, the late quarter-mafler-general to the wcfl
:rn expedition, request ihe public to suspend
ihcir judgment upon the Report of the Committa
jfCongrys, that has been lately publilhed—the
fiiends of Mr. Hodgdon conceiving they have
i jaft right to make this requell, when they af
firm, that neither Mr. Hodgdon, nor any per
lon in his behalf, were ever examined before
the said committee, he being at Jort-Wafh
ngton,"
F.xtraEl of a Utter from Maryland, May 16.
" At the commencement of the present
government I fondly hoped it would dis
play to the world, in its operation an un
exampled amelioration in the situation of
the great mass of the people, and although
I believe their condition at present is and
will for a time continue superior to what
any other nation has enjoyed—yet Ido not
think this is to be attributed to any benefit
derived from the adoption of the prefeut
Constitution. Comparatively speaking, few
of the citizens of the United States feel any
alteration in their situation— I am sorry to
hear of the distressing (late of affairs in
New-York, and cannot help thinking Mr.
Madison's discriminating proposition would
have prevented, in a great measure, t'ne ex
orbitant rage for speculation that has so
fatally influenced the minds of thousands
in this country."
Extrafl of a Utter from a gentleman at Gibraltar,
to his correspondent in this city, dated March 1.
" The emperor [of Morocco! Yezid, ha
ving made a forced march, and eluded the
army commanded by Ben Aftar, pulhed or
to the city of Morocco, where he arrives
about the second of February, but the gate'
being shut aga'nft him, he attacked the
place, and "carried it on the 6th, when he
committed the greatest excefles, and oncf
more gave up the devoted Jews to plunder
many friends as well as enemies fufterei
from the rapacity of the army.—On th<
12th Muley Ifhem reached the plain of Mo
rocco, with a considerable army, said t<
coniift of thirty thousand men, where th<
emperor with about half that number me
them, and after an engagement which con
tinued from ten to two o'clock, obtainee
the viftorv. Of Ifhem's army thirteen hun
dred were killed, and eight hundred takei
prisoners, some dispersed themselves, bu
the greatest part retreated towards Jaffe
The emperor's loss was inconsiderable, bu
he was himfelf wounded in two or thre;
places, and the use he made of his fuccef
was to put the prisoners to death, not om
of whom did he pardon. He ordered then
to be nailed up against the walls, and upoi
the floors where they happened to be, anc
prohibited ail perfo:is from administer
ing any kind of relief to them. He a!f<
put to death, without any apparent reason
two Chrilnans that had been several year
employed by his father as llone-cutters, anc
two Frenchmen who had parted into tht
country from Ceuta. In short, from thi
12 th to the 16th such afcene of {laughter wa
exhibited as, in Morocco, has seldom beei
heard of. On the i6rh, however, it pleafet
heaven to put an end to it, for on that da;
the emperor dud of his wounds."
ExtraQ ofanother letter from the fame gentleman
dated March 16.
" Slerna. (or rather Selima) who I thin!
will govern at lafl: in the kingdom of Fez
has, upon the whole, an amiable character
He is humane and temperate, religious anc
uperftitious, a dutiful son to his mother
md a lover of peace. He has declared him
elf a friend to commerce, and an enemy tc
n-ery thing cruel or treacherous. An Al
:aide, who had attached himfelf to the late
rinperor in adiftinguifhed manner, upon the
leath of his matter retired to a fanftuary
>ut Slema sent him a meflage applaudins
lis conduct, telling him he had nothing t<
ear, and exprefiing a wish that, if ever him
elf lliould be reduced to cliftrefs, he migh
lave a few such faithful adherents, as th(
Vcaide had been to his brother.—" By tht
and most moderate accounts the num
jer of people \ ezid (the late emperor
.aufecl to be put to death from his arriva
jefore the city of Morocco, until he died
.vhich was about two weeks, exceeded
wenty thousand; among whom were
.vithout refpeft to age or sex, all who hac
my connexion with the late Effendi."
LOAN' OF THE UNITED STATES.
By the " Ast fupplemcntary to the ast foi
naking ptovifion for the debt of the Unitec
States," it is provided that the term for receiving
311 loan that part of the domeflic debt of th<
United States which hath not been fubfcribcc
pursuant to the above ast, shall be extended, or
the lame terms as in the above ast is provided.
:o-tlie firft day of March 1793 —Books to b(
opened by commifiioners of Loans in each Hate
3n the (irll day of June next.
Non-subscribing c editors to receive an inter
equal to the fubferibing, on interest and prin
npal of so much of their refpeftive demands, a
or before the firft day of Match shall be re
ndered.
The term for receiving the unfubferibed par
of the state debt, agreeably to the fame ast, i:
,-xtended to firft of March, 1793 —ihe books tc
be opened as above, on the firft of June next.
The commitTioner of loans for North Caroli
na is not to be allowed to receive any certificate
ifTued by Patrick Travers, or by the commillion
;rs of army accounts at'Warrenton.
The debt due to foreign officers, the interefl
•v hereof is payable in Europe, to be paid off and
jifcharged, principal and interest.—The reft of
:he ast relates to the finking fund.
The direfforsof the New-Jersey manufactur
ing society, attended by the secretary of the
treasury, met at Newark or. the 14th inft. and
:aking into consideration the pretensions of dif
fcrent places for the feat of ilic manufactory,
unanirooufly determined that the Pafaick River,
or some of the fli earns that empty therein, Ihould
be the permanent feat of the institution —It is
further said, that the hufinefsof the manufac
tory is to be immediately put into effective ope
ration.
The Hon. George Leonard is chosen Repre
fentaiive in Congress for Brifiol diftri£t, in Mas
sachusetts.
A Society has been tecently eflablifbed in
Culpepper County (Virginia) for the promo'ion
us agiiculture and domeltic manufactures. Their
conilitution was published a few days ago in the
Frederic/fturgh Advertiser, under the title of
The conilitution of the Culpepper CountySSocietyy y
for the pron.otien of Agriculture and dom/Jiic Ma
■mfaßures.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE#
Mr. Freneau,
3y inserting the following in one of your paferi
yen will oblige a Cuflomtr.
A SONG—inferibed to Laura.
FAREWEL my love, farewel my dear !
Thou source of all my joy and care :
What have I left to tempt my flay,
Now my Laura's gone away ?
iweet lovely girl, my joy, my pride,
Vlore dear than all the woild beside
since Laura's bid us all adieu,
What will love-ftck Strephon do ?
Hark ! methinks the queer, of love,
speaks in whispers from above,
Cease, fond Strephon, to complain,
Thy Laura (hall return again.
Then adieu, my dearest dear !
Vlay you be heav'n's p culiar care,
Till you return, toeafe my pain,
Unto my longing arms again.
1 Snow-Hill, May 17,1792.
PRICE or STOCKS.
Six per cents, per £. - zif
Three ditto - - ia/8
Deferred .' ix ditto, - 13/1
Indents Jz fl
Final settlements, IS/6
[-2 ihares Bank Stock 50 per cent premium.
Siiaies Bank N. A. 15 ditco.
Meteorological Observations
May, 1792.
D. H Bar. Ther. Wind. Weatk.
Monday, 14. 6 30. 1 62 N. W. Fair.
2 go. 2 74 do. do.
Fuefday, 15. b go. 2 58 S Fair.
_ ' 3°- ' 75_ s• W. Hazy^
Vednefday, 16. 6 29. 8 6j S. Rain.
2 29. 7 , 76 S. \V. Cloudy.
Fhurjday, 17. 6 29. 7 50 N.E. Clovdy.
2 29. 8 55 E.N.E Ccudy.
Friday, 18. 6 go. 1 50 n.n.w Fair.
2 go. 1,5 62 N.W.do.
Saturday, 19. 7 30. 3 45 SW. Fair.
2 30. 3 67 do. do.
Sunday, 20. 6 30 2 52 S.W. Fair.
2 go. 1 70 s.s.w. Cloudy.
—
PROPOSALS
For Printing by Subfcripticn,
PUBLIC Ve PORTS
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
or THE
Government* cf the United States
CONGRESS,
Commencing with the prfent Government, and end
ing with the close of the Sejion of May 1792.
THIS work is intended to be printed in one
volume octavo, eftimatedto contain between five
md fix hundred pages, and will be delivered to
übferibersin boards atOne Dollar and a half.
A complete colleflion of the Reports into a
onvenient and portable volume has been fug
;e[led to the publishers by several Members of
Dongrefsand other gentlemen, and they are now
letermined to proceed on with the work, provi
led a competent number of fubferibers appear
o patronize the undertaking.
Subscriptions are received by CHILDS and
iWAINE, the publishers-, No- 209, Markct-
Ireet, Philadelphia, and by the principal Book
ellers in the United States'
May 24.
This day is published, and to be fold by
•"RANCIS BAILEY, No.i i6,Market-flreet,
and JOSEPH CRUKSHANK,
{Price One Dollar)
A number of
GEOGRAPHICAL CLOCKS,
Exhibiting at one -uie-w the time of day or night In ■
■very fart of the glolie ; •with the longitude East or
Weft, -wholly calculated for the meridian of this ci
y, -with a full defcriftion in letter prefi, and a ct>.
iiout Index of alt the principal Kingdoms, Islands,
xnd Cities in the 'world.
Pbilade'pbia t May 4f.1<7.w.
*** For fait at this Office., Sermons by
•he Rev'd Dr. William Linn, of N. York,
Price 5/7 1-2.The VILLAGE MERCHANT.
[Continued from No. 58J
HARD by the road a pigmy building flood,
Thatch'd was its root', and earthen were its floors:
b > small its size, that (in a jeiting mood)
It might be call'd a house turn'd out of doors
Yet here, adjacent to an aged oak,
Full fifty years old dad his hams did smoke,
Nor ceas'd the trade, till worn with years, am
spent,
To Pluto's smoke house hehimfelf was sent.
Hither our merchant turn'd his curious eve
.And mus'd awhile upon this fable /hell—
Here father Jmcak'd bis bogs (he laid) and iuhy y
Jti tru'b, may not our garret do as •well /*—
S:> down he took his bams and bacon flitches,
Refolv'd to fill the place with other riches :
From every hole and cranny brulh'd the foot,
And fix'd up shelves throughout the crazy hut:
A counter, too, most cunningly was plann'd
Behind whose bfeaft-work none but he might stand
Excepting now and then (by special grace)
Some brother merchant from some other place.—
Now, mufter'd up his cafli, and said his prayers,
In Sunday suit he rigs himfelf for town .
Two raw-bon'd steeds (defign'd for great affair*)
Arc to the waggon hicch'd, old Bay and Brown j
Who ne'er had been, before, a league from home
But now are doom'd full many a nrle to roam,
Like merchant ships, a various freight to bring
Of ribbons, lawns, and many a tawdry thin e '.
Molasses too (blest fwee:} was not forgot,
And 1 i)and rum, that every taste delights—
And teas, for maid and matron, rnuft be bought
Rosin and cat-gut fttings fur fiddling wights—
But why (hould I his invoice here repeat ?
'Twoula be like counting grains in pecks of wheat
lialf Europe's lift was on his invoice found,
And all was to be bought with—-forty pound !
Soon as the early dawn proclaim'd the day
He cock'd his hat with pins, and comb'd his hair
Curious it was, and laughable, to fee
The v't lage-merchant mounted in his chair :
Shelves pil'd with lavvr.s and JineDs, in his head
Coatings, and fluffs, and cior hs, and scarlets red—
A'l that would suit man, woman, girl, or bov,
Mullins, and mullinets, jeans, grograms, corduroy
Alack ! faiJ I—he little, little dreams
That all the cash h? guards with mickle care—.
His <a(h ! — the mother of a thousand schemes,
Will hardly buy—a load of earthen ware!
!But why Ihould J excite the hidden tear
By whispering truths, ungrateful to his ear?
Still let him travel on, with heart elate,
Jr. s Dif appointment never comes too late•
[To be continued. J
Mav 21.
To tbe Editor of the National Gazette.
y I newspapers have, of late, given us fre.
j quent details of the Jcenes of carnage aix
Wic.'chednela which have been exhibited in thi
"Welt indies. The pathetic manner in whicl
they have described their luft'eriogs is fufficient t<
excite pity in the most unfeeling breast. Tha
thot.fands fliould be icduced to unexperienced po
verty from the most affluent circumstances mul
be painful in the extreme, and the pungency is
perhaps, heightened when it is received at tin
hands of those who were wont to perform thei
menial services.
Were a true statement of the origin of thefi
commotions to be-given, and a full detail of th<
causes from which they have originated to be ex
hibited, there would not perhaps appear mud
reason for the whites to expett a different modi
of i rocedure from men who have be«*n uniformly
conversant all their lives with scenes of barbarit)
anj upon whose minds no ray of knowledge hath
fallen—from such breasts revenge is not ealih
eradicated. What a long catalogue of the black
c!t crimes are recorded in the hiftoriesof these let
tlements ! nor can it, ] think, be accounted won
d°.fal if the utmolt detestation for white people
ihvuiJ be unalterably fixed in the fable race.
I'he delcr . , oa of the government of a Weft.
In plantation in o»se of your papers, a ftiori
time lince, i • a Hi >cking detail of despotism in
private life, and lutficient to urge on persons ol
no lefleitiow c«» deeds of the greatest cruelty.
Is it not paradoxical, that pejfons who wen
Jong accuft >med to view without remorse theij
Jlaves furte.'i under ftvere torture, can now iv.
feelingly talk of the fuilerings of humanity ? Bui
it is not improbable that rhey are permitted by th<
all-wife Ruler of the universe as a retribution foi
the cruelty they have cxercifed in their treatmer:
of theie unfortunate peop.e, placeu under their au
thority.
Evfincethe existence of these 'roubles I fell
impisfiions different from most of thole whose sen
timents have appeared in the public prints 5 but j
hope no one will infer from hence tha r my feeling:
are steeled against human wretchednels. I la
rnent with the sons of philanthropv the devafla
tion made among the human race by wan anc
maflacres, and hope the light of realon ana the
xays of pWilcfophv may scon exclude them fron;
the earth.
Jt would, perhaps, conduce to human happinef
3f no body of men could be found that would tame
ly endure oppretfion — but rather turn from ipwi.i
a firm resolution to suppress it by the deftrattioi
of those who make the attempt, or gloriously
jt by their own death.
I sincerely wifli the scenes of anarchy in Which
the inhabitants of Hifpaniola have been so lon.
involved may speedily ceaf •, and that the fiavc
3nay return in peace to their matters. But at the
iamr time i'hope they may be taught wisdom b
-experience, and never transgress the laws of hu
- jnan'tty in their condudt towards those whom pro
vidence has permitted to be under their autho
*ity.
SAVJLLON.
Maryland, April 16.
Pi ices Cur rent at Philadelphia.
[ Uoiiars ci.jual 10 jooceius.j
ASHEb Pot per tun 90 Dols. to low
A Hies Peari j3 7 — — 140.
Udcon flitches per lb. 7 cents.
Bacon ftiouiders — 6 do.
Llees wjx, per lb. 25 cents Co 27.
Brandy, Coniac, pergl. 1 dol. 50 c 4 to
Brandy, common, 1 do). 26 c.
iiutter, in kegs, per ib. jo c. to 12.
Coals, per bujhel, 20 c. to 22
Coflve, per lb. 20 c.
Cotton, per lb. 30 c. 1042
Flax, per lb. jo c.
Flour, luperrine, per barrel, 5 dols. 6 c.
Common, 4 dols.
Burr middlings, bv.ll, per uil. 4 dols
ivieai Indian 2 dob. 67 c.
Rye 3 dols.
Siiip ftuff, per cwt, 1 dol.
Gin, Holland, per cale, 4 aol:>.
Ginleng per lb. 20 c. to 24
urain, barley, per bushel, 90 c.
— belt Hulled, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per bulhel, 40 c.
Indian com, 44, c. Oats 26 c. pr. bulb.
Rye 50 c. to 54, Wheat 95 to 1 dol.
Hams, per lb. S c. W 9
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67c.
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9 c. to 11
l.idigo, Carolina, per Jo. 40 c. to 1 dol.
iron, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
Caitings, per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nail-rods per to* 96 dois.
Pg, per ton, 24 dols. to 2% dols. 67 c.
Sfteety per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
Lard, per ib. 9 1". to 10
Lead, in ours, per cwt. 7 dols.
in pigs, 5 dols. 33 c. to 5 dols. 67 c
Red, 6 dol:. 40' c. to O dols. 67 C
White, ——- 10 dols. lo jo dels. 67 c.
Myrtle wax per Ib. jSc*
Mo)ailes, per gal. 44 c. to 4S
Pitch, per barrel, 1 dol. c. to 2 dol?.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 11 dols 10 11 d«33c
Lower County, do. jo dots.
Carolina, do. 9 dol*.
Rice, per 100 ib. 2 dols. 67 c.
Rosin, per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 dols. 67 c.
Rum, Antigua, per gallon, j dol.
Barbadoes, do. do. 77 c.
New-Engiand, &c. 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. 12 c.
Windward island, 86 to 90 c.
Snake-Root, per ib. 20 c. to 42
Sugar, iiavanna, white, per lb. 17 to iS c.
Brown, per ib. 15 c.
Muscovado, per cwt. 14 dols. K> 16 dols
Lump, per lb. 22 c.
LoaJ, Ungle refined, 25 e.
Loaf, double ditto, 30 c.
I allow, refined, per lb. 9 c.
Tar, Ncw-Jerfey, 24 g ii. to the brl- 1 d >!.
Carolina, 32 gal. I dol. 33 c. to 1 dol. 67 C.
Tea, H) lon, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
Hy ion Ikin, 53 c. to 67
Sou/hong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohe.*, 30 c. to 34
Tobacco, James River, best. per cwt. 3 dols. 60
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 2 dols. 67 c. to 3 dols.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 2 dols. 50 c. to 3 dol
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl, 33 c. to iS d
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, 2 dols. 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dols. 23 c
Carolina, new, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 do's.
Carolina, old, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 d -ls.
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. 67 c. to 2 dols.
Wine, Madeira, per pipe, 106 dl. 67 c. to 200 dl-
Lisbon, 96 dols. to 100
Teneriffe, per gal. 51 c. to 60
Fayal, 44 c. 49
Port, per pipe, jo 6 dols. 67 c. to 120 dol.
THIS DAT ARE PUBLISHED,
[In Oclavo—Price 2Jg.
the
LAW S of the United States,
Pa(Ted at the
First Session of the Second Congress.
PUBLISHED BT AUTHORITY.
To which are added the Ratifications of the
Amendments to (he Conflitution, by the several
ratifying States; the Armiflice between the Uni
ted States anu Gieat-Biitain ; and the Treaty ol
Peace and Frier\d(hip with the Cherokees, which,
with thoft in the other octavo volume completes
all the cxilling treaties.
Philadelphia, printedby CHILDS 6?SWAINE,
Printers of the Laws of the Unit d States, ant,
fold by them, at their office, A'o 209, Market-
Street ; afo by the principal Bookftilers in tht
city.
*** Laws are sewed in blue paper, anc
are intended to be bound up with thole of the
next ft-Hi on, lo as to make one volume, corn
prifing all the Laws pal Ted by the Second Con
grel'., when a complete Index will be added foi
both sessions.
The LAWS of the
Three Selfions of the First Congress
With a complete Index, in one volume"oflavo,
may be had as above.
Philadelphia, May 17th, 1792.
*** A few Copies of the Report of a Com
miitee of Congress on the causes of the failure
of the Wefiern Expedition, -under Major-
Central St. Clair, for sale at the Office Xo.
209, Market-Street.
li'Jl imported in the fidp Molly, CaUain
Jrom UJion —
A few Pipes and Quarter Casks of
LISBON WIN E;
Far fupertor in quality to xitkcl •is generally nrrpor*
ted ■, and a Jew 1 ales of the very bjl CORKS,
To be Sold by
GEORGE MEADE,
Who has alfofcrfale, Choiee three andfive years old
Bill of Exchange Madeira Wine,
By the Pip., or Quarter Calk,
LONDON MARKET MADEIRA WINE
five years old by the pipe, r Cjik.
Choice old Sherry WINE by tbe quaitercafk
Mess BEEF o a superior quality and lath as ib
fit tor an East India Voyage put up in
this city.
Choice firfl quality BEEF do.
Do Second do.
BOSTON BEEF equal to any from that
country.
Burlington Pork of the firft quality,
undone hundred and fourteen hhds of
F I. A X SEED, &.c.
May 16 2 a. w. tm.
BOOKS, ~
Printed, and fold by
matheW CAREY,
No. 118, Mar kit-Street, Philadelphia.
1• American Muleurn, from its rr.men cement
in 'January 1787, to December 1791, in ten vo:s.
Price, neatly bound and lettered, fxteen dollai».
This work, which is notv conducted on an un
proved plan, containing the bejl pieces pablifhedfor
and a gain (I the proceedings of government, toil! be
found to contain at leaf as great a variety of poll-.
tica/ t agricultural, andmijcellancous ejfays, as any
ever publifhcd in America. Perhaps v: r.o one work
are Jo many valuable documents reJpißtir.g the hifio
ry of this country, eollefied together. His excel
lency the President of the Uviiea Stales, ha. de
clared of it, that " a more uleful literary plan
iias never been undertaken in America, nor one
nore dtferving of public encouragement." The
übfeription is two dollars and a half per am urn.
Gentlemen in the country who wifo to be fup/.lied
zvith this work, are. reqyejied to give ccmn:]iicn tc
friends in the city to JuuJcribe for and receive it.
2. La Pocket Library—containing :—Mj\
More's Lfjays j Gregory"s Legacy ; Lady Pen.
11 t;gton's auvice 5 Marchior.ejs of Lamberts ad
vice j [Swift's letter to a Kewly married lady j
Mrs. Chapene on command of temper j Tvluresfa
lesfor the ladies Price 6jG.
3. Smith's History of New-York, f-om itsfrf!
ettlement to the year 17 3 2-. To which is au.iexea',
: dejeription of the com.try, with a Jhort accorr.t
■f the inhabit a r.iSy their religious and political flute,
aid the cor.fiitution of the courts of juflice—■Price
1 dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Bear
ie, L.L.D. profefjor of moral ph'i'oj ;phy and logic
n the Manjchal College, Aberdeen — Price three
c ourths of a dollar. Of this book the Critical Re
viewers (vol. 69. p.bz'SJJay: "Wc have fan
ivthing on theje fi,,'-jecls more plain, more perfpicu
•us, or more genera ly ufeful
5. Beautifj of Poetiy, Briiifh and American,
ontamingfelett productions of the mojji eminent Bri
ifh and Amcncan f oets»rPrice four fftbs of a a<A.
0. Blair'* Sei containing the w'ho.e of Ihi
hree volumes of the britftj edition, m two. Pt'uc
wo dollars.
7. Neckcr's Treatise on the importance of reli
gious opinions. Price four fifths cf a dollar.
8. Examination cf the objurations of Lord Shef-
Ud son American Commerce Price, on very fun
lapcr, fve eighths c.f a dollar.
9. '1 he Conjiituthns of the fever al United States,
wtth the federal Corjiitution, &Y. a rice fiv,
•;gb'bs of a dollar.
10 M'Fingal, an epic poem, * new edition ';>
12mo. Price three eighths of a do'lar.
11. American Jelt Book., in two parts, will,
two very neat engravings. Price uound, tire,
fifths oj a dollar.
12. Garden f the Soul, by Bifkcp Chalenor
Price, bound plain, ha f a dohur, in ca>f and let:
red, three quurt,rs of a dollar, plain l-idol.
13. The T/arJlution cf the vulgate Bi
>le, in quarto. Price, e.egar.tly uour..: ami uttered
50/2 —plain, fix dollars.
Said Carey has for sale, a large ajjlrtment u
■ ooks, European as well a< American eiiumns
which he will difpoje of on the moji reafaiubU terms
'Ount ry gentlemen, who favor him with command•
nay depend upon being Jup.plied in the mJJ fatisfac
ory manner. A liberal allowance to Juch as pur
hafe quantities for public libraries, or to jell again
THE JubJcribex begs leave to acquaint hi
frienai and the public in general, that h
has removed from Pennington t 0 that noted taver
md ferry fland opposite to Ecflon, on the J erf
fide of the Delaware, lie fas provided hurfj
with a good and Jafe Jet of f e r r y-crrfts % and pu :
fifes keeping the o<Jl entertainment fjr man
iorfe. Every attention shall be paid to gentienu
travellers and others by the public's tnfl obcdicr,
und very hun.b e servant,
THOMAS BULL PA AN.
May %th, wlaw
CHESTER TOWN & BALTIMORE
STAGES.
THE Eaflcrn-Shorc Stage, by wav of Chef
tntowu to Baltimore, ft arts, regular I) nor
J nines i bom plon's, i nciiao Qjjeen, Fcurth-itreei
Philadelphia, every Monday, Wednesday an,
r riday, mornings, precisely 7 o 4 c4ock, an
•n the lame mornings at 4 o'clock, from Mi
Grant sin Baltimore. The cultivation of th
country, and goooßtfs of the roads, togethc
with the attention that ftJ! be paid by the pro
prjecors, will, it is hoped, be a fufficient induce
mei)t lor a prelerence being given to ti.is route.
JAMES THOMPSON,
ROBERT HODGSON,
N. B. Light Waggons for hire bv Jame
Thompfen, at the Indian (^een.
FOR BRISTOL,
-I 11 " sIIIP
Binningham Packet,
I-EESON SIMMONS, Mailer ;
iciiiJhKahic tail fuller, her cargo is all reaHv ;
neyeniieleiai to ac\oinmod.-ite those who may be
disposed to put | n i ; . ht on board, it will he taken
i . She w,i iai! in a feu r days. jhe owners
are ducrmincd (hat the ihip (hall leave Bnftol
wifhjln' fit II jal! flups.
lor freight or i-uW apply to the Captain on
board at Walnut ftrcet WharK, or
G OKGE MEADE.
I hofc who have goods on hoard are earneftlj
r> uu. Ued to enter take out their permit,
ai.d give; the n' cefiary dire, ions to their porter
to attend the lhip. May 16. 2 aw
ff cjhington, m the Territory of Columb.a.
A PREM IU M
500 dollars, or a medal of that value,
j ac t ' le option of the party, will be giv
?n ay the Commissioners of the Federal
omrdinjjs to the perfo:i who, before the#
ifteeiicn(lay of Juiy next, (hall produce tot
t leni tae moil approved plan, if adopted bv »
'■ ni, iai a Prelideut'j house to be erected
ii! this city. _ Phe lite of the building, if
ttie artiii will attend to it. will of courle
influence the aspect and outline of hisplsn,
audit., defoliation will point out to him
the number, lize, a ::d diitribution of the
I t will be a recommendation
1 a;l - v 'f the central part of it may be
aetached anil erected for the present, with
me appearance of a complete whole, and
J-capable o admitting the additional part-.,
in future, if they ihall be wanting. Draw
ings will be expected of the ground pi
elevations of _ each front, a'.d fectioiu
through the building in such directions as
may be neceflary to explain the internal
.tructure ; and an estimate of the cubic feet
of brickwork, conipoiing the whole mas, of
the walls. The Commissioners.
March 14.
IVaJhingtoa, in the Territory of Columbia
APRE M I V M
Pv a this City to be designated by
impartial judges and joodoilars ; o- a
iiiedal of that value, at the option of the
?artY, will be given by the Commissioners
f Federal Buildings, to the person,
ivho, be,ore the fifteenth day of Juiy j : <, 3 ,
hall produce to thtm the most approved
3 • adopted by them, for a Capitol r,
Je erected in this city, and 250 do.iar.-.. or
i meual for the plan deemed next in merit
o the one they ihall adopt. The buildiny;
0 be of brick, and to contain the following
lpartments, to wit.
a conference room 7 to "
1 room for the Re- at - c °mmodate
prefentacives ( 3 co persons
■ 11, eac!l
. lobby or antichamber to the latter r
1 Senate room of 1200 fuuare feet
area.
5,11 antichamber or lobby to the lafo
2 room, of 600 fijuare feet area, each, "for
loimmrtee rooms and clerks offices, to be
> naif the elevation of the former. Draw
ngiw.Ub, expected of tlxe ground plats,
elevations of cach front, and sections
■hrougn the building in such directions a,
nay be neceflary to explain the internal
truttur.?, and an estimate of the c i bic 'feet
if brickwork compoiing the whole mas of
.lie walls. Ins Commissioners.
March 14.
T O THE PUBLI C.
j Tit. Subfcrtber b-s it in contemplation loon f
. kit prejest bufintjt—and hivtr.-'c n
band a conji.urable quantity efjyperfine fecondand
•Iti/.ic ficit, together -With a vjnety of "other arti
; >n bn icy, prepojei to fell then a /the folUvir. r
r.Mte.,l?, Htt . VIZ
Hilt Suptrfitte navy bile 34,,
Oirro. ditto. Starlet 30,.
Common caloi.n f,. per fine - 2 .
fMjhcJlripct 3 9 „.
I,u:J',n uujf arc ivbite CdJJimers 1 c/o.
Ditto, coloured do, ics.
Torkjku e Jo. do. i{j i.
Striped tv'iUr.cit i:s \
2l.it mitts
Striped Naitieetts -f<,
A'. .iriety of loaijlicat Jbctpet proportion.ii y lorn),
1 ancy butters and trimmings ao.
London btfljiil b'J\ from 22/6 to 245,
Ibe above goods ave been mostly oj.ted from
me eft me f ,si Mercantile boufet in Li-dtn, and
are of jr. , , u.il quality to any imported into Amtri-
C" } mey Wtil re Jold per piece or Jmaller quantity
ii ik ay to it futt tie purchasers ; by th'publics mi'ti
Lt.n l icj.rvant, JOHN SHEPHERD-
No. 3 South Fourtb-jlrect
& An y person dsipufed to purchalc the whoJe
01 the jouve (lock, may also have on reafonabJe
terms his present dwelling house, together with
the ltore, a moie eligible situation for buHnefs in
the tailor's line is not to be found in this city.
1 he advantage of this business being so well eltd
bliftted by the proprietor will be very great, axii
trunt well known fa&s, needs no comment
A ieafe of fix years may be had of the house.
A/ay 14, 2 aiv. tf.
P RINTED BY
C II I L D S AND SWAINF,
AT 'Ih£lß BFFICE, KO. 209, HIGH-STREET
NEAR Flf JH-STR EE Tj
PHILADELPHIA.
z ?.
~ -s
h' *