f'O f/ li"2/ly k/ir
[Numb. i of Vol. 11. j
Exposition of tlie motives on which the
French National Assembly have pro
claimed the Convocation of a National
Convention, and pronounced the sus
pension of the executive power in the
hands of the king.
[Continuedfrom our lajl c.ni concluded. ]
A DECLARATION of the Gene
ral of the enemy, which doomed to
death all freemen, and promised to cowards
and traitors his difgraceful protection,
could not but add to theft suspicions. In
It the enemy of France seemed to attend
to nothing but the defence of the king of
the French. Twenty fix millions of men
were nothing in his cftimation, in compa
xifon of a privileged family ; their blood
ir.uft wet the earth to avenge the flighted
insult ; and the kinjr, instead of exprefling
his indignation against a manifefto intend
ed to take from him the confidence of the
people, fremed to oppose to it, and that
reluilantly, a cold and timid disavowal.
Who then can be aftonifbed that dis
trust in the supreme head of the executive
powr should inspire citizens with the de
iire of no longer feeing the forces intended
for the common defence at the disposition
of a king, in whose name France was at
tacked, aDd the care of maintaining her
internal tranquility, confidcd to him,
whose interests were the pretexts of all
lier troubles ? Tothefe motives, common
to all France, werejoined others, particu
lar 'o the inhabitants of Paris They
saw the families of the conspirators at
Coblentz, forming the habitual society of
the king and hisfamily. Writers paid by
the civil lift, endeavoured by base calum
nies to render the Parisians odious or fuf
the ey* of the r.'fl of France
Attempts were made to sow division be
tween the poor citizens and the rich ; the
national guard was agitated by perfidious
manosuvres, in order to form in it a party
of royalifls. In fine, the enemies of liber
ty seemed to be divided between Paris and
Coblentz, and their audacity incrqafed
with their number.
The constitution enjoined the king to
give notice of imminent hostilities to the
national assembly ; and long solicitations
were necessary to obtain from the ministry
the tardy information bf the march of the
Pruflian tioops. The constitution pro
nounced abdication against the king if he
ilid not, by some formal ast, declare his
opposition to enterprises undertaken ir
his name against the nation ; and the emi- i
grant princes had opened pubiic loans in
the king's name, hSd hired foreign troops
in his name, had levied French regiments
in his name, had formed a military house
hold for him out of France ; and these
fadls were known for more than lix months
before the king, whose public declarations,
whose remonstrances with foreign powers
might have hindered the fuccels of these
measures, had discharged the duties im
posed upon him by the constitution.
It was on motives thus powerful that
numerous petitions, sent from a great
number of the departments, the wish of
several fe&ions of Paris, followed by the
general exprcfiion of the vvifh of the whole
commons, solicited the forfeiture of the
king, or the fulpenfion of the royal power,
and the national assembly could no longer
fnrink from the examination of this grand
question.
It was their duty not to decide but af
ter a mature and well-confidcred examina
tion, after a solemn discussion, after hav
ing heard and weighed all opinions. But
the patience of the people was exhausted ;
all at or.ee, they appeared united as one
man in the fame will ; they marched to
wards the place of the king's residence,
and the king came to seek an asylum in
the afTembly of the representatives of the
people, whose feat he knew that the fra
ternal union of the inhabitants of Paris,
with the citizens of the departments,
would always render an asylum inviolable
and fasred.
By P. FRENEAU: Publifieci Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Fitree Dollars per annum ,
WEDNESDA Y, Cflober 31, 1702
National guards had been charged with
defending the refideace which the king
had abandoned, but with them Swiss
soldiers were stationed. The people had
longfeen with painful surprize, Swiss bat
talions (haring the guard of the king, al
though the coftHitution did not allow him
to have a foreign guaid. It had long
been easy to forefee that this diredt viola
tion of the law, which by its nature con
itantly obtruded itfelf on evtiv eye, would
sooner or later occasion great misfortunes,
The nationr.l afieinbly had no
thing to prevent them. Reports,difcuffions
motions made by individual members snr
referred to committees, had zpprifed tin
king several months before of the necefiit)
of o'ifmifilng from about his person men
whom every where else the Frcnch alway;
regarded as friends andbrothers>but whon:
ihey could not lee retained about a con
flitutionslking, in direst contradi&ion tc
the conrtitutiori, without lufpefting thai
they had become the instruments of the
enemies of their liberty. C&
A decree had ordered their removal
their commander, supported by the mi
niftry, demanded changes in the decree
the national assembly consented to thoft
changes, A part of the lolditrs was tc
remain near Paris, but without doing an)
duty that might renew disquiets; and
it was contrary to the fenfeof the nationa'
assembly, contrary to the law, that on tht
loth of Augull they were employed on o
service, from which every motive of hu
manity and of prudence ought to have
kept them away, they received orders tc
fire on the armed citizens, at the inftanl
when the latter were inviting them tc
peace—when, unequivocal sims of ca
nity announced that peace was going tc
be accepted—at the instant when a depu
:ation of the national assembly was feet
advancing in the midst of arms, to speed
the words of peace and conciliation, and tc
prevent carnage. Then nothing could
[lop the vi-ngeance of the people, whe
had thus proof of a new ast of treachery,
at the very moment they were coming tc
cumplain of those of which they had long
been the vi&ims
In the midst of these disasters, the na
tional assembly, sffli&ed but ca'm, took
the oath to maintain equality and liberty,
or to die at thsir poll, they took the oath
:o save France, and they fought for the
means.
They saw but one, which was that of
recurring to the will supreme of the peo
pie, and inviting them to exercise imme
diately their unalienable right of fovercign
ty, which the conftittition has recognized,
and which it could not fubje£l to any ref
tituiion. The public interest requireH
that the people {hould manifeft their will
by the sense of a national convention,
formed of representatives invested by them
with unlimited powers ; it required no
less that the members of this convention
(hould be elected in each department in a
uniform manner, and according to a fegil
i r mode. But the national assembly
coul i not reflrain the powers of the fove
rcign people, from whom alone the mem
bers of that assembly hold all the powers
they possess. They were bound to con
fine themfelvcs to conjuring the people, in
the name of their country, to follow the
(imple regulation traced out for them. In
these, the forms inflitiited for elections
were refpe&ed, because the eflablifhment
of new forms, even fuppofmg them to
have been better, would have been afource
of delay, perhaps of division. They pre
served in them none of the conditions ef
eligibility, none of the limitations of the
right of electing or being tlefted, estab
lished by the former laws, because these
laws, which are so many reftriftions on the
right of sovereignty, are not applicable
to a national convention ; in which this
right ought to be exerdfed with complete
i«dependence. The diflinftion of active
citizens appears not in these regulations,
l>ecaiif; t is also a reft rift ion of the law.
i'he t;; ly conditions required are jhoft
which i aicre has prescribed, such .s the
necefiit' of being connected, bv a fixed
refiden. ?, virli the territory, for which
the rip. l of citi-xnfhip is exercised, of
having the age'r.! wkich men are
held bjjj'ie laws of the nation of which
they r/i .iea part, to be in a condition- to
exer.i.e .heir personal riqrhts ; finally, of
having re ,:ived absolute independence ol
-vill.
But to alfemble new reprefeatatives of
the people required time ; and altho' the
national aflem'bly have made as short as
poflible the peri 3 of the operation!
which ' le convention made liecefTtiry ;
ilthoug; they accelerated the period at
.vhich tuey mull cease to bear the burden
<f the p.ibhc Wta'i, in such a manner as
:o avoid the lea.t fnfpicion 6f ambitious
.•isws ; the t ,rm of 40 days would still
rave exf >fed the country to great misfor
unes, a d the people to dangerous corn
notions if (o the king had been left the
:xercife cf the powers conferred Upon
nim by the conftitutiort ; and the fufpen
ion of t" <?fe powers appeared to the repre
sentative" of the people, the only means of
■aving I'rance and liberty.
In prcnouticing this necefTary fufpen
ion, th» assembly have not exceeded their
jowers. The constitution authorizes
hem tc pronottnee it in the cafe of the
tbfence f the king, when the term at
vhich tl s absence incurs a legal abdica
ion is mt yet arr.ved, that is to fay, in
he cafe n which there is not yet ground
:or acl nitive refalution, but in which
1 prov.fi nal ast of rigour is evidently ne
•-(for*. 1 u 1 r
eave tilt pswer in hands,. which could
10 longer make a free and beneficial use
>fit. In the present inflance, then, these
renditions are as evidently united as in
he cafe provided fcr by the constitution;
md in conducting ourfelve3 by the piin
'iple which the const tution has pointed
>ut, we have obeyed it—far from having
nfringed it contral-y to our oaths.
The constitution foiefaw, that all ac
:umulation of powers was dangerous, ane
night change into tyrants of the people,
hose who ought to be only their reprefen
atives ; but it judged also, that his dan
rerfuppofed a long exercise of tliis extra
jrdinary power, and the term of twe
nonths is that which is fixed for all cases
n which it permits this union of powers,
vhich in all other cases it has so rigorous
y prescribed.
The national aflfembly, far from ex
ending this term, has reduced it to foity
lays only ; and far from exceeding the
>eriod fixed by law on the plea of necelfi.
y, they have brought themselves with
n the narrowed limits.
When the power of fanftioning the
aws is suspended, the constitution has
pronounced, that the decrees of the legif
ative body (hall have of themselves the
eharafter and authority of laws ; and since
iej (o whom the constitution gave the
:hoice of ministers, could tlo longer exer
:ife his functions, it was necefTary that a
new law should put the choice into other
hands. The afftmbly conferred the right
on themselves, because this right could not
be given but to electors who belonged to
the whole nation, and because they alone
have that character at present. But tl iy
were careful to avoid giving ground for
the suspicion that, in conferring this powei
on themselves, they fought to gratify am
bitious personal views ; they decreed, that
the election fnould be made aloud, that
each of them should pronounce his choice
in presence of the national representation,
in presence of the numerous citizens who
attend thrir fittings. They took care that
each of their own body should have his
colleagues for h:s j -'ges, the pubiic for a
witness', and should answer for his* choice
to the whole n:t;oir.
.Total No. ioc.
Frenchmen, let us unite all our forces
ngainit ihe (oirign tyranny which dares
to threaten with its vengeance twerity-fi*
millions of freemen. Within fix weeks a
powe**, which every citizrn acknowledges,
will pronounce on ourdivifioa : woe to the
man who liltening, during this fliort in
terval, to personal fehtiments, shall not:
devote himfelf wholly to common de
fence, who shall not lee, that at the mo
ment when the Sovereign " ill of '.he peo
ple is about to speak) we have no enemies
but the conlpirators of Pilnitz, and their
accomplices.
It !3 in the midst of a foreign '.var, at
the moment when numerous armies are
preparing for a formidable invasion, that
we call upon the citizens to discuss in a
peaceable assembly the rights of liberty,
x hat which would have appeared rash
among any other pe pie) seemed to us not
above the courage and the p.itriotifm of
the French ; and undoubtedly we shall •
not have the misfortune cf finding our
;elve< deceived in judging you worthy to
forget every othS- iiHereft, but tliat of
ifcerty, of facrificing *ev«Vy other fehtiment
:o the love of our country.
Citizens, it is for you to judge, if your
eprefe.n>atives have exeicifed for your
rood the powers you have confided to
hem, if they have, acted according to
four wifiies, in snaking a use of their
jowers, which neither they, nor you could
forefee to be .necefTary. For us, we have
lifcharged our duty in seizing with con
"age on the only means of 'prefeKing li
berty that occurred to out conlideration,
i' :ady to die for it, at the poll in which
t 'ou have placed us, we shall cirf y with
is, at leaf!, on quitting that post. the can
ohuon oi naving maintain? d it l&tlftrmy.
Whateverjudgment our contemporaries
>r posterity may pass upon us, we shall not
lave to dread that of oik confcience-s ; to
vhatever danger we may be exposed, the
lappiriefs will remain to us of having spa
ed the torrents of French blood, which a
:onduft more weak would have made to
low : we shall be spared lemofe at lea!t ;
lor shall we have to reproach ourselves
vith having seen a means of laving our
country,and not having dared to embrace it.
(Signed) GUADET, President.
30UJCN, G. ROMME, MARANS, CRESTIN,
ARENA LECOINTRE fUIRAVAUX,
Secretaries.
Paris Aug. io.
Or -r- -
Mr. Freneau,
AMERICANUS (in your Gazette
of the 24th inft.) thinks he has
ound some errors, which he has ftigma
ized misrepresentations in my ftatemerit
)f October 10; He fcts out with calling
>n me to point out the clause of the ast
which gives the exciie officer an authority
o enter ori the domains of individuals and
icarch them, Jcc. I answer —
1. That I argued from the nature of
the fubjeft, not from any statute relating
.0 It, and of course he has no right to call
3n me for a statute wtiich 1 have no where
referred to or said any thing about i but
2d. Notwithfhnding this, 1 am willing
Lo comply with his ca'l, and refer him to
an ast of Congrefis of March 3, 1791,
left. 3 2 —the Words and meaning of which
are very express in cafe of concealmerts
" in any place whjtever." —Theofficeisof
infpeftionatid others are authorized " to
enter intoa'l and every fucli place orpUices,"
&c. and all the provisions (which are to be
found in the feftion just quoted, and in
lundry other clause. cf our laws) against
the abuse of this odious Iniulting power
of the exciie officer ; all these provisions I.
fay clearly prove and fupp9rt the actual
existence of that power, while at the fame
time they alleviate but very little of the
asp rities of its execution.
If I must moet an excise officer at my
loor with his plenary powers to enter and
icarch every part of my house, I conceive
that tjhe warrant in his pocket or the con-ftaols at his heel?, would afford very little
lenient composure tr> my harrowed feel
i tgs ; indeed I would rather the excise
officer vould corae alone than with his 1
conftabk ; if I mr.ft receive insult, I would
rather take it from one than from more ;
from few than from many.
I know very well that such liigh pow
ers, in cases of high necessity mud e:;ift in
every government, but I (Irongly object
to their being made common or being ever
introduced without such high necessity as
alone can make them admissible.
He next complains of my objection to
the t xeffe, grounded on the great expense
of col'efting it. The iinmenle number of
officers and implements which mull i e pro
vided and scattered over every part ef the
Ur.ion, mnit unavoidably create a very
er.ornious expense, the actual amount of
which, mad in its nature be a matter of
cenjtftuial calculation, till a llatemeut of
' rafts car. be mr.de.—Some people in their
calculations, or guesses, if youpleafe, have
estimated the annual expense of collection
of the excise at 45,000 dollars, and the
gross amount of the tax at 400,000 dol
lars, which makes the expense of colkc
ti n I2f percent. on the nett proceeds of
it, and I believe this calculation very mo
derate, because Congress in their ast of 1
May 8, 1792, limited the whole allow
ance for this service, so that it (hall not
exceed "0,000 dollars for the time bei:>g,
2. e. tilt a future law shall be made to alter
it. In the fame ast it is Hated, that the
allowances to officers, together with the
incidental expenses of collecting the duties
shall not exceed per cent, of the total
product of the duties, which is something
.more than 8 pet Cent, on the nett p o
ceeds ; but I conceive this is not designed
to include all the expenses of the excise ;
if this was the cafe, it would not amount
to half the sum which is provided and ap
prop ia'cd by Congress to that service—
but when a statement of facts can be made,
I fiiaH be very well fatisfied to find this
expenle of colleft'ion reduced lower than
k expected, for I never yet feared an ap
proa hing calamity but I was very gad to
find when it came, that it proved not quite
10 bad as I apprehended.
Bat what has all this to do with"mifre
presentations," which Amer canus charges
on me- I heard a calculation was made
o f 1 2 per sent, for coilefting the excise ;
I told if as 1 heard it ; I made no misre
presentation of it, and [ am not accounta
ble for the truth of it, nor have I any
more right to be called on to verify that,
than a thousand other calculations on pub
lie measures, which are made every day
through all the states ; and 'ti3 happy
that our people are disposed to examine
and calculate, for it not so, our go
vernment would ioon lose its principal
checks, and we fhouid have but a feeble
barrier left against a very speedy tyranny
3. Americanus goes on te another
charge of naifreprefentation, viz. my as
sertion that the public faith was pledged
in the oft solemn manner to the original
public creditors—and pray was notthis the
plain fact? or have I misrepresented in the
least? But he fays there was a fubfeqjtsnt
plighting of the public faith to the as
lignees or holde s of the certificates, which
mull not be violated.
1. I aflc, was payment ever made to
the original creditors, according to the
pbphted faith of the public to them I
You mull fay, No! they never receiv
ed any thing but depreci ;ted paper,
worth, fay, one tenth of the sum due to
them.
2. I ask, were the original creditors
ever party ta the certificates ? You must
answer, No! the certificates were not
thought of when the contrast was made
by the firft authority of the nation with
the pubiic creditors—the certificates were
fabricated and impofedon them long after,
and without their free consent, When a cer
tificate was offered to them, it was that,
or nothmg. Such an impoiition in any in
dividual, would be deemed by every body
impudent injuflice, as well as (hamelefs
meanness : and can you call the fame
thing in ana it n, an empire, publicjuftice
and national honor ? Or can you think
such a forced rick can be deemed euher
payment t> those creditors, or a
of the nation, from their promise, or faith
solemnly plighted
But as to this second promise or faith
plighted to the speculators or bearers of
certificates, which Americanus ta ka a
bout, if such a thing ever really existed,
(which 1 deny) it must follow t;.at as far
as the demands of the speculators extend,
there must have beer, twopromifesor faiths
plighted for the fame debt, and the fame
money, witch he thinks can't both be
paid, and I think so too, and of course one
of them is to be preferred, and the other
facrificed.
This naturally leads us to coiifider the
original merits, earnings, and valuable con
siderations, on which the two promises were
at firft grounded ; and to prefer that
which appears to have the best original
foundation, and to reject the other, the
original balls of which (to fay do worse)
was but a delufi«e vision.
To ap;ilv all this to the present cafe :—
1. The promise or public faith plighted
to the original creditors, was grounued on
their most acknowledged merits and earn
ings, granted for supplies and services ren
dered by them to our country in extreme
diltrefs—to whose virtue and efforts we
are indebted for all the money we now
enjoy, yea, for the very walls of the house
in which we have fat deliberating whether
we would pay them or not.
2. The promise made to the fpcculatore
(if any was made) was grounded on no
original merits, earnings or valuable consi
deration paid or rendered to any body, or
so much a« held up or pretended by them.
Th'-'v firft wriggled themselves into the ob
folate purview of a public ast, and by the
most shameless fophifiry which everinfult
cd the underftandir.g of a nation, set up a
claim to wages which they never earned,
to kire, when they had not laboured, and
to rewards «it hout any pretensions to the
virtues and merits to which they were
due.
I leave the reader to make his eleft'on
which of the e two faiths or promise? he
will prefer, and only stop to declare that
I offer these things in the face of the
world, as matters of public notoriety, and
challenge any American, who has either
conscience of right or feelings of humanity,
to deny an iota of them, or to differ from
me in the sentiments of his own heart, if
he can*
I suppose it will be objected to all this,
that the thing is done and cannot be
mended—This is, indeed, an old plea, and
a pretty good clincher for runaway
latches ; but I don't think it will apply to
the present cafe—it will be said that the
speculators are in possession, they arefo ong
and numerous, and it will be difficult to
oust them ; but truth an i right are (b onger
than they. I know they have got hold of
great sums of our public money, under
the name of. inter eft* which I suppose
they will keep : for I don't expect that
refunding will ever make a part of our
funding system. But the great capital is
unpaid, and dill remains in the bank and
in the nation, and may be disposed of yet
as national honor, faith and right /hall re-,
quire But as things go on, this great
capital will not reft with us long, but will
soon be drained from the extreme parts
into the great cities, and from thence will
take its departure for Europe, never to
rettlrn.
We have indeed one comfort left, that
as long as our fields supply corn and flax,
and our flocks and h<?rd* yield butter,
cheese, milk, meat and wool, we cannot
starve or want clothes.
On the whole matter, let what difficul
ties soever lie in our way, i pray God that
the doleful cruel adage—Let the Jlricken
deer go mourn- may never be the motto of
our Union.
A Citizen of Philadelphia.
Oft. 26. 1792.
FOREIGN NEWS.
LONDON, Aug. 20 —31
The French, by burning the pedigrees
of their nobility, have deftroved many
beautiful specimens of art, that would have
produced a larger film than those who pro
posed this inealure were perhaps aware of.
Many ot the genealogies were illuminated
with drawings exquilitely finifhed, highly
coloured, and superbly ornamented with
burnished gold.
The revolution in France, counteracted
by a confederacy of potentates, and foa
larming to mankind, forms an era in civil
history, intimately connected with the fu
ture destiny of the world. Give stability
to this revolution, and the other govern
ments will emerge into freedom, and pub
lic felicity become progrefiive among na
tions. Subvert this revolution by the in
terference of foreign powers with the ar
rangements of interior government, all na
tions must tremble, defpurifm will triumph,
and the world move retrograde for a<*es.
In future, then, the anniverl'ary of so great
an event, so interesting to the feelings of
humanity, ought to be celebrated in every
region of the world, by every people who
are virtuous-enough to be free.
It] all the characters of Tippoo Sai'a,
with which the public have been favoured,
his zeal for religion has»been wholly omit
ted It is however well known, that he
enn'iders liimfeif as one of the legitimate
fucceiiors of Mahomet, adds that of the
prophet to the catalogue of his titles, and
makes converts to the muffiilmen faith by
the orthodox modes of persecution, irapri
fonment. mutilation, and death.
France, we are told, has' been brought
by the revolution from the highest pitch of
national prosperity to the lowest abyss of
political eonfufion. What was the Hate of
f'rauce before the revolution ? an over
grown clergy, a difaffecte*! army, an ex
hausted treafnry, a public expenditure, for
which all the expedients of three fuccef
fiive mi (lifters could not provide; a popu
lace reduced to despair by the enormous
-weight of faxes, and in danger of Ihirving
for want of bread. Such was the Hate of
things which the (ycophar.ts of power re
present as the highelt pitch of national
prosperity. From luch grinding prosperity,
may heaven fhieid the people ofthis country.
Abjirati of late French intelligence,
Paris, Aug. so. ' Several of the ladies of
the court have b:en arr-eited and sent to
prison for conveying notes, libels,- and o
ther trea r onable effulions against liberty,
to the king and queen iince their con'i le
ment in the tower of the temple. Seven
of .those ladies were summoned before the
general council of the commons on the
r Sth, but refuting to give any, except
vague answers, they were put tinder arrest, ;
and transferred ro prison. When the queen
was informed of this event, she wept bit- ,
terly for them all, particularly maiemoif
felle de Lamballe, her conltant companion .
in the. days of royalty. (
M. de Biron in order to encourage defer- .
tion among the enemy's troops, sent them (
the tranfla.tion.of the decree, which is Co
well calculated to allure them to the ;.
! standard of liberty, on account ofthelin- j
j gular advantages it holds out to them—
The decree is conveyed into the allied
: camps in' dottles of itrong Nantz brandy,
a powerfull bait for a northern faldier ! j
I Ob Thursday the special tribunal, efta
blifnedby the law of the 17th of Attguft,
palled feutence on Louis David Connot, ,
alias d' Anglemont.—After a trial of, 39 ,
hours by a jury of his own countrymen,
he was convicted of debauching the alle- ,
giauce of several Frenchmen,a-nd condemned
to die in expiation of his crime.
When judgment was pronounced, M.
Offelin, Prelident, thus addressed tfie cul
prit : —"Condemned by a levere, though
just law—go bravely to death : your life
and sincere repentance are all that your
country requires of you 1"
During the trial, the prisoner at the bar 1
urgod very powerful and some f:btil argu- :
ments in his defence. He appeared with j
elegance, ease, & spoke in clafljcal language; ,
but his fortitude abandoned him, when his 1
doom w&s pronounced. He was executed
at half after ten at night, on the square of ;
theCarouzel, by light of torches—Gen. Ar - ,
thurDillon has been accused of difalfeflion !
to the national alterably caiife, and of being
theaccolllpliceofM.de la Fayette; and
has been declared by the assembly unwor
thy of a further public confidence—All su
spended general officers, and superseded
officers are forbid being within ten leagues
of any of the French armies : and to be re
moved 20 leagues from the "frontiers. A
report has been made to the national assem
bly on the Swiss contrast of 1764, by which
the Cantons were to furaifh near 14000
auxiliary troops to France ; and declaring
that the .Swiss regiment ought to be no lon
ger in French pa}, and that the aforefaid
treaty be conlidered as void.—The Jacobin
society in Paris have drawn up an address
to the national aflembly, on the following
heads, proposing ill,to eftablifti aprogreflive
value in the paper currency from the most
conliderable to the lowest sum. 2. To
lay a duty on all notes, payable to order.
3 To forbid the circulation of geld or
lilvercoin, but to encreafe the copper and
bell metal currency. 4. To work the 1
gold and lilver mines belonging to the nati- ;
on, in order to keep up the balance of trade I
with foreign countries. 5. To charge a 1
committee to examine the political rights 1
of women. 6. To repeal the decrees that ;
Confirm slid guarantee the royal loans. I
7. Totally to suppress all expenditures for i
secret services, as a disgrace to a free peo- ;
pie who should be candid, open, and with- I
out disguise. 8. To suppress every species t
of operation in finances for the national t
treasury. The address concluded with an z
improved affortion, " that the trade with
the two Indies, and the pofieflion of the
colonies were infinitely more detrimental
than ufeful ro the French nation. The
king is not in ftich deep despair as some
■nay imagine ; for notwithilanding the
vigilance of those who guard him, he car
ries 011 a correspondence, and he is {fill
called his majetty ; the letters are handed
to him in different ways fonietimes in an
almond wash ball, sometime* in the fold of
a fhi.rt, sometimes in a balloon cake, which a
municipal officer buys for the prince royal;
there have been above twenty letters in-
tercepted in that manner; all whichgoesto
prove that the Royahfts, who hitherto
have been tyrants, are now become fer
vancs, who.sleep with one eye open, watch
ing for the favorable inlhmt to rtiih upon
us. We inn ft, therefore, be resolute and
circumfpeCl, and not fuffer ourselves to be
led into the lhares iaid, otherwise we Ihsll
soon tye on new fetters, heavier than t.'iole
we have so lately thrown off."
[ From the Ley Jen Gazette of Slug. Io.J
ExtraSl fom a Report, made to the National As
sembly on the dijfojition of fcvcral powers to•
wards France.
Extraordinary efforts have been made ta
re-ani-nate the patriotism of the French,
and raise an impassable barrier against the
attacks of her enemies. Countenanced
and aided by the princes of Germany, they
; have row fixed themselves on the frontiers.
The French armies were disquieted at these
profpefrs, and would more than once hava
oppoffd their progress, had they not been
nicely fcruptilous in regard to violating the
dependent territory of the empire. But it
if. time to put an end to this inactivity, and
no loiigfF to fuffer the enemy to occupy
polls, and establish garrisons ansi camps in a
. country whose neutrality is openly violated
by the enemies of France. By renouncing
conqneft and offgnlive war, France assured
Europe that her fyftern was pacific. By
thisltep it was, doubtless, the intention of
the nffembly to put an end to the mifchiefs
.that had so long defoiated Europe, to de
stroy those jealoulies and that reciprocal ha
tred which it has ever been the policy of
governments to excite among nations, ti»
make them the instruments of their ambi
tion or their avarice. But such as
this, founded upon juflice, and alike ac
knowledged by humanity and general in
terest, was not to the reliih of
defpot-s. Hardly were the rights of mat*
mentioned, when those who hold them in
chains fron; the Baltic to the Mediterra
nean, united themselves against France on
| ly ft"" having declared, that flu had no right ta
■ ufurpthe 'territory of her neighbours, nor to declare
roar in any cafe except for lawful defence. At this
declaration Austria was irifti.ntly routed,
and pnt on foot her battalions ; foe threa
tened that ihe would dictate !a\Vs. and ever*
prescribed the mode of despotism tinder*
which France was to groan. All France
cried for Vengeance, at this outrage upon
the Rational independence, anil declared
war, which the enemy had, in fact, previ
oufiy -declared by their hoiftile arrange
ments. Thi., ast accelerated the difco.verjr
oTathoufand frcret conspiracies, which in
! time would have proved fatal to the gene
ral l iiherty. By a strange cevolnuop in >v»—
litics the fncceffbr of the great Frederic de
clared in fa. our of our "enemies, and tha
mailer of Silesia is at this moment among
the allies of the hortfe of Ar.ftria. The
Germanic body, whose independence is na
turally guarantied by France, which can a
lone lave i. from the never-dying, ambition
of Austria, has seen with fati faction ths
league formed to destroy the free govern
ment of France. Already the hofiile ar
mies ha' ; e inundated their terr.tory, and
under cover of neutrality, they are not a
.armed at the encampments, the magazines
and other military arrangement.- of the foci
ot the f rench. The time, however, will,
come, when these powers as well as some
others who are now blind to their true in
terefls, v. ill fee their mistake in fuppoiintr
the downfall of French liberty will be to
tjaeir advantage. The present northern
league has noticing less in view than the en*.
(laving ali Europe, and on whatever fide it
is examined, discovers a menacing r.ipecl*
The prelude to the exacutiqu of. this fyf
tern is the facrifising the independence nf
Poland. Even the liberty of Germany is
dellroyed by the change that has taken
place in the politic, of Prussia. France is
now doomed to ail the horrors of civil war
and fubjecfed to the swords of foreign inva
ders, wiio expert Ihe must yield to the tor
rent that is preparing to overwhelm her t
and when reduced to an abjectftate of sub
mission, that Ihe will then be at the direc
tion of her new protestors. The P ' lineal
balance being then overturned, the fate of
several other powers will be in. their hands
and by the aid of their numerous soldiery'
loaded with spoil and fattened with (laugh
ter, all usurpations whatever will become
easy to them. It belongs, then, to France
to preserve mankind from this dreadful
scourge, to awaken the world to a view of
its situation, to rouse into action those dc
graoed loms who ihamefuliy inattentive or
bafeiy perfidious, can fee with indifference
the delti u£tion of the infant germ of li
berty upon this earth. A brave naf.on am
wifely governed, are the providence of this world :
and tne French alone, in opposing the com
mon enemies of the human race, will hav
the glory to re-eftabliih that political hat
niony which (hall preserve Europe from u
uiverfal servitude. Whatever may be the
number, whatever the strength of our ene
mies, it can hardly be pollible that such a
nat.on as France can fink in the contest
that is before her. An immense peonle
thatteel their strength and dignity, re-!mi
ted by a (enfe ot mutual interefl, and un
der their own laws; protected by a power
ful army, and pofleffing fortrefes impretr
liable ro : " :*»by the contiguity and happy cot*refponfl£nce
of its parts, exhibits a solid mass of power,
can never fall a prey to the kings that are
combined against them. It nnilt be conli
dered that they, as well as we, are fubjeft
ed to the uncertainty of events, to the inevi
table expenditures of war, beyond all cal
culation ; and having an enemy to fight,
animated with every noble sentiment of li
berty, It is evident that the lead shock inaft
overturn this powerful confederacy, and
change their purposes ; lince a firm and
Jailing alliance cannot take place between
powers merely ambitious, who support the
cause of injnftice. The true French have
no desertions to fear. The dangers of
their country will encourage her children.
We have contracted an immense debt with
the whole world—the pledging ourselves to
eftabiifh and put in practice the rights of
man upon the earth. Liberty, fertile in
virtues and talents, will enable us to pay
it to the last farthing. Our enemies have
conceived great hopes from the liitle dif
fentions that have happened among us ;
and from thence they argue the difTolution
of our government—No !—we well tinder
ftand. that in the afihir.l condition of things,
a change in our political iriftitutions would
nectffirily be attended with an inter reguum
of laws, the fufpeafion of authority, licenci
oufnefs, and disorder. But our vigilance
shall preserve liberty without destroying it;
the power of doing milchief {hall be taken
away from traitors; and with the growing
liability of government, we (hall deprive
the ambitious of every chance of profiting
by the perpetual changes and revolution
of empires; and by uniting energy of ac
tion with sagacity of underftamiing, we
shall crown our revolution with (uccel's and
glory.
PHILADELPHIA.
October 31.
i he following geiltlemen are chosen bv tbf
freemen of Connecticut to represent them it:
the next Congress : Jonathan Trumbull,
Jmies Hilthoufe, Jonathan Sturges, Je'reirhaf
Wadfwoi'th, Amafa Learned, Benjamin Hun
tington, and Stephen Mix. Miichei, Etqrs.
Information is received from Amsterdam,
that an additional duty ha. taken place, in Ho!
land, of one halt per cent ad valorem on all
goods exported from (hence to the Uniter
States of America ; and one per cent oil al
foods imported into laid Netherlands from the
United States.
The Creek Indians have lntely receivec
two vcfit'l load;, of presents from the Uni
ted:>tates, which were lauded atColdrain 01
,-the river St. Mary's. The prefects conlVfl
of plotigjifs, hoes, and other implements o
Ifulbandry. Another veflel, laden as above
was daily expected at the fame place ;
where the Creeks were to meet the com
miflioners, receive the prefentu, and ratifj
the The running of the frontier
Hue was to be left entirely to the commif.
fioners.
i fie following lift of the votes for mem
bers of Cojigrefs for the state of Pennsylva
nia, is taken from the official returns, ex.-
cept the counties of Berks and Dauphin
authentic returns from which are not yei
received : _ Findley , 33,158, Mahu ibere
32,341, Heifter 32,147, Irwin 30,968, Kit
tera 29.835, Hartley -8,4)3, P. Muhlen
berg 21 -'84, Fitztflijons 17,997, Qregc
17. ;' A: niilroiig 17,31.., Montgome.-\
Srfiilie 15,754 Scott 16,657, Sit
g'eaves 15,58°, Sergeant jj',c<i6, Barclay
14,053, Tiioinion 14.8*74, Bingham 14,482,
Wyiikoop 14,548.
By a return pnblV/hed in the " AUS lift a
Chrdnicl: ' of the 6th inft, it- appears that
Abraham Baldwin and Thomas P. Carhes.
Elejio. are eleCfcd members of the House of
Representatives of the 'United States for
that state.
" Capt. Bhf: of the fh:p Roebuck, failed
from Bristol the Ift of September, and ar
rived last Saturday evening. When
ht left Briit'il, the latest acciiimt'i from
Fi; j i, e, menr.oiied the escape of ; J\'ll r
quis de la Fayette with thirteen of hi offi
cers, through the Austrian Netherlands,
and that they were taken and carried into
Nanuir. 7 his information was not con
tradicted by any other account up to the
nrft of September. The idea of the mar
quis having arrived in England was 110;
credited.
Mr. Ricket's Circus, in Market-flreet,
near the Centre-Square, is now completed,
and will, we hear, be very soon opened for
the entertainment of the public, and for the
inftruftion of ladies and gentlemen defirou*
Of acquiring the elegaiit accon:p:i:r.ment of
horsemanship. The Circus is fitted up in
a commodious style. so as to be capable of
containing a large company of fpetfator:.
and it is to be presumed the citizens of this
metropolis will experience cwnhdevable
gratification from this new field of rational
amuferr.ent.
1 huriuav, 11th, failed from Pittsburgh.
under the command of Major Rudolph, a
detachment of part of two troops of dif
mounred horfemeii, and infantry. We
nnderftand the liorfemen are to proceed to
K- ntuckey to train the horses purtnafed
there by Mr. Belli, tfi£ deputy quarter-
maftcr-getifral The infantry arc to be
itationed at Galliopolis.
Mefiieurs Wignell and Reinagle hav
pUblilhed proposals in Boflon for erecting a
theatre in that capital on a similar plan to
ihe new one now finifhing in this city. A
Liiphiet, 0:1 the subject <•' a the 'tre, i
iliortly ro be publillied i n 801 l on. enthled,
" An estimate of the effects of the ftage'ot]
the manners of a people, aUtl the poillbility
of in. being rendered a source of national
wraith." It is said the Hate rtprefenta
tives and clergy are to be complimented in
dividually with a copy of this pt rfonii
atice.
The difunlon that has bee/! so much talk
ed of 111 France appear; to have aril'er
w holly from the schemes and artifices oi
the royali'ls and retainers to dcfpotifm, ac
tuated by the king and his family. Sine;
the suspension of the monarch, and his con
finement, the molt authentic accounts re
preferirthe nation as UNITED against al
its enemies. Should this really be the cafe
when the amazing Urength of the nation i:
considered, it is evident it will be at then
own option to adopt what form of govern
ment ®ht)f f*e fit. The number of person:
capable of bearing arms, in France, is fij
millions, seven hundred thonfand, wherea:
the whole combined force that can bi
brought to ait against them cannot exceec
two hundred and fifty thousand.
Letters from St. Kitts mention the arri
val of fix French transports at that island
with troops, who had not been fullered tc
land at Martinicp, having been driven ofl
3y the royal party. The troops were lan-
Jed at St. Kitts, and the fix veifels violently
:akenout of the harbour by an armed force
from Martinico —four other transports oi
:he fame squadron, under convoy of a fri
jate, had gone to leeward, supposed for
Francois.
Accounts from Paris are received a
is the 4.tft of September, and from Lond'oii
:o the ioth. The heads of the molt uiat*:-
"iai intelligence are as follow : The Duke
:>f Brunfwick had taken Longwy, aflrong
own on the French frontiers, containing a
"ew hundred troops : according to others
:here were in it a garrison of 263k men, 3S
jieces of cannofl, and 415,000.wt. of pow
ler. The duke then advanced towards
Verdun, and on the 30th of Atignil f'um
noned that place to fnrrender ; but it-was
letermiued by the council to hold out to
he last extremity : —upon receiving this
lews at Paris, a decree was palled to the
bllowing effect—" that the barriers be
hut ; all horses seized for military service ;
ill suspected petfons to be disarmed. and all
.itizens to hold themselves in reading's to
iiarch at the firft notice : and that 60.00 c
!ivtt be immediately raised for the defence
if the country." These 60,0c0 men were
ilmoft immediately raised, but upon a fug
:ellion that it would be dangerous for such
1 body to leave Paris while so many arifto
;rats and counter-re', o'nitioniits remained,
t was proposed to disarm and put then! to
leath. Upon this 130 priells were toitanr
,y m'aflacrecL, who had been confined in the
convent of the Carmelites: The people in
:he Atbave were next put to death, with
many persons in other places-—Oll the 3d of
'September eo more priells were killed —
About 12 o'clock on the 3d the tumult cea
i'ed, by "wh cii time 4000 (ibme lay-7000;
had jo'.l their lives—during ail these vio
lences the king and his family remained un
iifturbed, as well as the offices of every
Hiblic department. By this time news had
irrived that Verdun Was taken—No other
rruption into France had been made by the
Duke of Brunfwick ; the army ot ?i. Bi
o<i kept the Priijce de PJohenloe in awe.
W. Dumourier covered the north —10,oco
men were under Gen. Kcllertnan ; and
' 5,000 watched the motions of the Duke of
Brunfwidc—a decree had parted, feque.-
tnngthe poflellions of the Auftriaft clergy
in France —Lnckner was re-instated Gene
ratiiiimo of the three French frontier ar
mies.
[From the Pittflurg Gazette]
Whs! has produced the present war with the
Indians? Is ii not tile claim of the United
Stales to the country well of the Ohio? Cede
this, and we have peace. Shall it be said, i'i 1
the object of the forces raised is the protcflion
of these I'eitlements ?—The fadi, is, if at the
treaty of ort M'lntofh in the year 1784, the
rommifTionershad said, we relinquish ail claim
beyond our former purchnfe, and art fatisfied
with the Ohio as a boundary, we Ihould have
had no war.
The contrary was the language—it was said,
that territory is ours ; we claim it by coiiquell
and you'niull give it up, allowing vou only ;i
small corner as a fronting g>ound and iettJe
:nent, and a few goods as a bounty, not as a
price.
Survevs and", ff ttlemrnts under the United
States, of this territory; has been an infOree
jment of the claiofr, and has provoked the Indi
ans, and has engaged them in continual war.
The older'riflemen?,s have been the victims o(
ihis claim of the public. Shall it then be said,
thai it is topiou ci the weilern country that the
a 1 iry i - on foot ? Let the Congress in&tntly
announce to the . Indians a relinqmih merit oi
claim to this territory, and wefhallafk no, troops
to prote3 us, \ve\fhall have no trouble.. But
the Congress ckim it ; and have niaae, an '
wilh to make (ales ; and the frontiers mud
bear the incuffiAns bf the fat - ages provoked or
ac: o;nt cf tins ; tb-tv nuili be ! jnzli.J with
militia lervice , taken fiom the labour of their
fa: m; at p.me, un: c .'.fonable ; and vet lie "lulc!
by utiiiorffted i>t:i!,,ns abioa ! , tint tbev' con
rn'ouif nothing towards d;e expellee of a war
whicTi is thus brought on them by the public.
Y\ hat P because they do not fubniit to an ex
cite ; when by fubmittino to it, tbev would pay
more than ten rimes the proportion of the reve
nue.
We have seen the President's proclamation,
which is all right ; and. he has seen ours;
v.ni'h is, that we will neither eat nor drink
with an excile oh"icer. Let the President dc
nis duiv, and we will dooms. It is his to en
force; apd it is ours to defeat. We hopfe'tohavc
no difference on the occasion, but each to car
ry Hlspojnt if he can. We flatter ourfelve
the power of opinion is {tronger than the
itiws , andwhena taxis unequal, unjull, un
popular, oppteHive, m a free government, ii
annot exiit long, or be carried into complete
sfftd.'
We arc requeued to ir.fert the following
• note to the " Defence of
Mr. Jefrer&ti'.s political chara&er," &.c.
in onr paper of Oftcber 13.]
WHEN the extracts explaining Mr. Jef
ferfon's political principles, refpefting the
conftitut!9n, were sent to the press, with an
intimation that the originals should be made
aqcefjible, if ueceflary, it .was with reason
concluded that ho man of candor would
entertain any doubt of their authenticity.
A writer, tmder the signature of Catullus,
f-.vho, notwiihft«ndiiig JiU ridiculous tranf
<vr of his anchor!',jp, is evidently the Origi
nal writer under the iignature of An Ame
rican) has been so far wanting in this vir
tue, as to contradict, To rational a fuppofi
l'on. To put an e:.d to all poflible cavil or
this fubjeif, notice is now given, that anj
r.eatleman of known honor and delicacy,
who fnaiibe named to the Kditor of the A
iricrican Daily Ad.vertifer, sna 1 have an op
portunity of .examining not only tile paflage;
but the entire contents of the o
-rgjual letters. It fortunately happens
that from the writer's practice of mention
ng i :i every letter the date of the preceding
t>ne, it is dempnltrated by the letters them
elves that they form the whole of this cof
efpondence within the neceflary period.
The propriety of requiring a witness in thi;
:afe of tire above dcfcrjption accounts foi
tfelf. In the freedom of an extenhve cor
-efpondence with a confidential frfepd. ii
:ould not but happen that many things mnfl
t>e included not only irrelative to the sub
eft in queflion, but to any other of a pub
ic nature, and which tlio' unexceptionable
n their place, should never leave the depo
itory of private honor. With refpeit tc
.fie !eser of Jnly6, j ;B&s"pubßflied in yotn
t>aper of the 13th inflant, this fagaclou:
:ommentator lias been as unlucky, as in al
lis other inferences from preemptive cir
aimftances. It is neither the letter fpoket
t>f by Mr. Pendleton, nor written toxin
ame person. Had the critic, however
>een pofiefleu of less faga<;ity, with ih<
"...alletl particle of candor, he might eafti;,
lave reconciled the flatement given b\
Mr. Pendjet-.m with the extract in, qsief
ion. Tne bill of rights mentioned in -I;j<
atter might furely_be called, either by Mr,
[eiferfort, in another letter, or by Mr. Pen
ileton, flat',rig, in his own language, tilt
:ontents of the one he saw, ail enumerator
d the amendments wished to be secured
Every particular right secured is, in faff
in amendment, and is so designated in the
lmendatory tupplement to the conflitution
[t is pains ul to waste a moment in explana
tion . v. hich seem to be so unneec fi'ary ; yet
is.a specimen of the manner in which the
jttack on an illuflricms patriot is conduct
ed, it may not be unworthy of attention.
V 5 The second volume of the Nation-
J C. a ette commencing with thi-. day's
publication, the Edijor embraces the op
portunity briefly, to rejitind Itis reader;
and the public that it is his intention tc
jerfevere in his ordinal plan of publifliinp
:i free paper in this city, open to animad
veriions of any and every party upon jfub
,ic measures, and influenced and dictated tc
by Inonk. If hitherto, in the prpfecuti
tm of this very juftiiiable pl an it has Kjen
his lot to experience no small share of ca
lumny and r. Treprefenmiou ti ;>wi iuteref
ted or characters, who may havs
apprehended danger to tliemfelve;, to their
friends, or to the government, from at
impartial cfifcuflion ol' queffions of public
concern, in a free Gazette ; it has been hu
consolation 011 the other hand, that by e
generous fubfcripi'ou themeyu? ha\e beer
alfordecf of maintaining in fonie degree
the dignity of a free paper, and convincing
the enemies os-open and liberal discussion
that the press cannot be fhsckled in thefc
there exitls a spark of reptib
lican or re'volutional vilrlue among the peo
ple.
Original communications, if decently
[Written, and having any reference to the
public welfare, or public information, will
be thankfully received and duely inferred,
as Miuai.
A brief history of the proceetiings of the
K<-ti!'e of Reprclentative::, will be faith
fully compiler and infei ted durir,g the fef
iiou ; with the lifts of yeas and nays upon
every important qttefttoo.
Foreign and domestic intelligence will
be pi'en without deviating into tedious
prtohxicy, or relating every inconlidera
ble incident of the day ; which, would be
incompatible with thg bounds to which
rlic Gazctt? is r'eftrlfh-d.
The advertising department shall at no
time exceed the quantity of one page.—
Advertifemeuts, not exceeding a square,
for the iirlt inftrtion fifty cents ; for every
filbfeqcent insertion 25 cents.
In future one dollar and an half will be
expected at the time of subscribing, and
tiie.reniairiing one dollar and an half at the:
comnlencemeiit of the following fix
months.
Subfcrihers in arrears for the whole or
part of the 1 ast year's fubfcriptinn are re
quested to make payment without delay
either to the pott-.matters in their rcfpec
tive ; to fucli gentlemen
as have interacted themselves in collecting
subscript-ions ; or to the Editor by.private
conveyance. Punfttialky in this particu
lar will alone enable the editor to conn
nue the National Gazette upon the plan
proposed.
For the NATionAt (Jazhtt.s.
Mr. FrEneau, " /
A FUR THE It imprudent attempt
has been made by F. .CT (which,
owing to accident,! hnvejuft seen) to ex
plain azuay the opinion of the Secretary
of the Trcsfury concerning the llejjtngs of
a public debt. The beftanfwerto ail such
fop'hiflical comments, is a careful pcrufai
of the printed reports of that officer, where
every candid reader will find the doctrine
undeniably maintained, sometimes more ex
plicitly, foroetimes more guardedly; fome
tinles in one fliape, sometimes in another ;
that public debts in a certain latitude, and
except in particular situations ,are public
blessings ; and that the esifting debt is so.
This cannot be explained away ; and the
Secretary's known opinions (and hitherto
undented) (hould prevent his friends ftynn
trying at it.
As to the want cf candour in account
ing for the apparent inconfitiency of the
Secretary in other remarks, Truth need
only to refer to his unmulilattd text; wheie
two rematksof the Secretary are set down,
and two fol'jtions giveny one referring to
one only of the remarks. Fafl by a muti
lated quotatioTi refers it to ths other, and
then complains of want cf candour. I
hipprefs the epithet that might be applied.
Bi;t co' luff ;s called in to explain ths
real sentiments of the Secretary ; but at
•what time : whilst the public mind was
unroufcd ? No. At the lajl fcjfjon only, when
the public prints were the g<?r.tral conver
iation, a#o the walrt < f Congrtfs proclaim
ed the alarm excited by the doctrine.-—
It is not improbable that further explana
tions of a similar nature mav now come
forward under the exiiling impressions of
the public.
As to the flexibility or inflexibility of
rhe secretary that can avail little. There
may be a great inflexibility as to the
jbjeft, arfd as great a flexibility 'as to
the means —Right ends are but too
commonly pursued by flexible, inconfifter.n
means: but when a wrong one is in
view the pursuit thereof usually pro
duces a very Proteus as to t!ie means.
TRUTH.
Oftobcr 30; 1792.
m ■»
FOR sale,
A good MILL SEA T,
And an excellent (land for a country ilore,
SitHitfih Mil/tone-Creek, eltut /even nttcs frtut
Hide?i Toibn or Cranberry, cn the %reat read,
leading from Hide's 1 >.«:«» to M-jr.mouih
' etui t-hovfi, in Neiv- JerJey.
THERE are one hundred and fiav-feven acres
and rfn half of good l and in the above men
.ior.eo trad j a new mill .hereon 2.8 bv 40 feet.
just bfoiit; an excel.ent stream r/f water 5 the
.nil! enjoys a head of .water between 6 and 7
feet 5 has 2 pair of (tones. and water fufTuicnt
to drive 4 pair 5 abcut2s acres of excellent mea
dow, and about 20 acres more to be made ivfth
convenience ; two good frame dwelling
houses thereon, built about 4 yeais since, with
kitchens to both j a barn and tables 5 excellent
water close to the dorr, and including about 25
acrps of excellent wood land. For terms apply
c ' "J°f e ph J turtle* on the pemifes, or at M'Kean
an-i Van Ewiurgb's ftrre.pri their wharf immedi
ately next below AroJi-ftreer, to
ROBERT M'KEAN s
Who has for Sale,
Five Grants of Land in Franklin county , in
the ft ate of Georgia, of lOCO acres each ;
Situate on Bioao Rivci,* and taken up
J une'laii. One grant in the fame county and
itate, of one thousand acies, da'ed 25th May,
1790. One of ■ tvC'o hundred And eighty-seven a
cres and an half, in the and state, da
red 23d April, 1789, and t hn Trail Creek j and
one grant of two hundred ar\d eighty-seven acres
and an half, in the fame coithty and (late, on the
Ccconce River.
PhiUd. Cd. 31. 4t e. w.To tbe Editor of tbe National Gaacttt,
Sir,
THE Profc/Tor of Botany has done an honor
to a correspondent in your paper, under the
signature df Med/cus, which he could not have
Cxpc&ed from a man of bis figure.The courtly
-language of his * Calm Observer' seems to give a
)>roof to the aflertions of Medicus that 44 all is
ignorance which does not immediately emanate
from him"—But, fir, 1 hope the contest will reft
here, for the honor of medical fcienee, for the
fake of hurfianity, and in tenderness to the pro
feilbr's friends ; for it appears to me that a pro
lecution of the allegations any further must ter
minate in a way highly to his disadvantage—let
him derive that profit from an ignorance of his
character, which inveftigatioti might dcftroy—l
hope Medicus will withhold a multiplicity of
fadts, which are but too well known in this city,
and observe a silence, which in him would be com
paflion, but in the profefTor Would have been a
virtue—The man who provokts a public enquiry
into his character ought to be free from reproach,
and what dzemon could have urged the profefTor
to expose himfelf to public -view, is to me a pro
blem insoluble j certain it is that he must have
been ignorant of the moil elTential of all know
ledge, knowledge of himfelf, or he could not,
with an unrefiedting t&merity, have challengedan
enquiry, from which he could neither derive honor
or. reputation-—This is the Jecond attempt that he
has made to pass himfelf upon the public for a
man of honor ; but it is only a credulous mind
that will believe a man to be sincere, who has
once been publicly convicted of ialfhood —appeals
to heaven, or to honor, avail not when circuni
tfances speak convitfion strong as proof of holy
wrir, or when the sacred principle of truth has
been often facrifrced on the altar of dishonor. I he
profefl'or of Botany will pardon the liberty ot s
lew questions, as they may serve. perhaps, to
throw some light upon the fubjeft i» contest—did
the Printer of the Daily Advertiser publith the
extradt of a letter from the. New-\ ork Journal
unfollicited > was the Editor of the National Ga
zette not applied to to republifc it ? were you not
ore of the five who were present at the philoso
phical society when the lapsus lingua was maae,
which has been so fhamefully peAerted to the
prejudice of the profefTor of the materia medica .
did he not immediately correct himfelf ? is i: not
a common thing with you to depreciate the medi
cal reputation of every physician in this city how
ever exalted his charader ? have you even lpared
the reliable profefl'or, who laid the foundation
of vour medical knowledge, and who patromxed.
>ou both hire at*»d abroad ? I could continue my
interrogations, but as 1 wish not to torture you
too much by putting too many questions at once,
I will suspend them till they lhall be more necel
lary j the " tenderness find affeflicn" of the pro
fefl'or of Botany, as aflerted by a worthy ana ref
pe&abte character, for whom I have the highest
veneration, is a refle&ion more severe than any of
fered by Medicus ; the benevolent divine, who
cftimates the feelings of others by his own, and
•whose philanthropic foul delights in the happi
jicfs of mankind, was unacquainted with the
£*ofto*'? 44 ivalkt," or he would not have hazard
ed such an opinion—with refpedt to the profef
for's medical talents I will offer no opifiion, left 1
ihould be called a 4i bottie>wa[her," for it is a
physician only, who can judge truly of the abili
ties of his brother—as a botanist I mean not to
arraign him, I will depend upon the foreign pro
felTor's opinion, who has confined himfelf to bo
tany and natural history only——an eminent ob
f-rver of human nature fays that « men and things
have their point of <vie<w, j%/ne -ive should Jee near
to judge well of j of others toe judge best at a dif
t*ince" th? foreign profeftor viewed an American
object across tbe Atlantic !as a man—out let me
forbear —1 hope the 4 recording angel will drop a
tear upon many of his actions, and blot them out
forever.* A Friend to Truth.
O&eber, 29.
F u r the National Gazette.
To the Profejfor of Botany in the Mftfque of
44 a CalniObfeTver.' y
Sir,
MY reply to your calm andfinifhed efTay shall
not take op much of that precious time,
which you can devote to more ujeful purpofes—lt
would be well for you "if the scouring and scourg
ing which you have had would give you half the
purity that I have given to "bottles—it requires an
ingenuity and labour beyond the reach ot man to
wash an Ethiopian white—the confeflion of an ig
norance of yourfelf, is the only candid thing
which has marked your progress in this diflionor.
ablebufinefs—you fay that you are 4 unacquaint
ed with either of the gentlemen,' and that you are
disinterested ; pray how came you in pofieflion of
the extract from the private note, written by the
profelTor of the materia medica ? If you are un
acquainted with either of the gentlemen, how do
you judge that one is 4 worthy of the confidence
of the world' ? how came you to know that Doc
ter Barton had 4 too much honor to be guilty of so
base an act, as to write the extract of a letter,
if you are unacquainted with him ? who inform
ed you that a 4 private 4 was the cause that
Medicus took up the cudgel' ? really for a « dif
ir.teref.ed and ignorant man' you are won'drous
knowing—fye, fye Dodfcor ; even a bottle-washer
w. uid disdain such flimfey and dishonest artifice—
But, fir, I have only sketched the outlines of your
jChara&er, and to prove to you that 1 am not
your enemy, I shall forbear finiihing the portrait,
\inlefs lam provoked to it—my facts are numer
ous, and tho' exhibited by a bottle washer, they
will not be destitute of energy—believe me I do
not' envy' you, neither do 1 aspire to 1 your rank j'
it is an eminence, which, \ hope, Heaven will
keep me from ever >\fcending—J feel contented
with the humble ftatio.i that you have allotted mes
for I find myfelf placed by you in the fame class
In which ycu have pi iced the mod eminent char
ters in this city—learn modesty and charity
Dodlor, they will do you as much, if not more,
than botany— cease from dftraSiion and con
| fider the chaftifemffnt of Medicus as designed for
I your benefit ; as a teflon of humility
4 Which like the toad, ugly and venomous,
| Wears yet a precious jewel in its head."
Otto. 29. MEDICUS.
| LONDON.
TheTollowing comparative statement of the for
ces of the concerting kings, oppoled to the num
bers which France may bring into the field, is ex
tracted from an efTay on that fubjeft, lately pub
lished at Paris, by an ingenious gecgraphic *vri
-1 ter, M* Fraff'enfrat.
I 44 France contains twenty-seven millions of in
; habitants.
j 44 The number of male citizens between 16
1 and 20 years of age, is ten millions ; that of its
1 adtive citizens, and sons of a&ive citizens,
4,300,000, which leaves 5,700,000 inactive citi
zens.
Xt The number of persons capable of bearing
arms is 6,700 000—2,880,000 of whom are ac
tive citizens-—5,820,000 ina&ive.
f< The regular army of France consists of
it 50,000 men* j
44 If the French, who will defend their liberties, ;
were to decimate themselves, that is, if one in ten'
capable of bearing arms, marched against the com-1
mon enemy, France would have an army of
men.
44 The 4 actual forces of the powers coalesced
against France are,
Austria - «. 200,000
Pruflia - *. 183,000
The contingent of the empire 40,000
Naples - 50,000
Sardinia - - 3^,000
Tufcany • - 6,000
Total - 509,000
44 Supposing these powers have occasion to
guard their immense territory, of which the extent
is 21,562 square German miles, 15 to the degree,
and to keep in awe from 38 t6 40 millions of peo
ple, the inhabitants of this"country, who are rea
dy to revolt. . <
" Supposing that they are obliged'to keep at
home half only of their troops, it will follow, that
all the force which these powers can bring against
France, will be 250,000.
44 The department of Paris also contains
100,000 adVive citizens, and 140,000 inactive ;
among whom are jBO,OOO men capable of bear
ing arms, 80,000 a£iives, and 100,000 ina&ives.''
Prices Current at Philadelphia.
[Dollars equal to 100 cents.]
ASHES Pot per ton 90 Dols. to 100 <3 <
Ashes Pearl 1.37 — — 140.
Bacon flitches per lb. 7cents.
Bacon Ihoulders 6 do.
Bees wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27.
Brandy, Coniac, pergl. 1 dol. ji c
Brandy, common, 90c.
Butter, in kegs, per lb. 9 c. to TO.
Beef, Boston, per barrel 7d to Sd.
-—"•Country ditto 6d to yd.
Coals, per bushel, 20 c. to 22
Coffee, per lb. 18 to 19 c.
Cotton, per lb. 16 c. to 40
Cheele, country, per lb. 8c to 10c.
— Engliih 19c.
Chocolate, per lb- 17c to 18c.
Codfifh, per cwt. 3d. 50c.
Cordage, American, per cwt. 7d 67c. to Sd.
Duck, Eng'iih No. 1. per yd. 28c.
I cent iefs for every number
■ Pruflia, per bolt nd. 33c.
Dutch fail duck, ißd. to 2od.
Sail cloth, Boston No. 1. per yd. 30c.
Flaxfeed, por bulh. 751085 c.
Flax, per lb. j 1 to 12 c.
Flour, fuperfine, per barrel, sdol.
Common, 4 dols. 67 c#
Burr middlings, best, per brl. 4d.
Meal Indian 2 dols. 52 c.
Rye 2 dols. 40 c.
Ship ftuft', per cwt, 80 c. to 1 dol.
Gin, Holland, per cafe, 4 dols. 67 c.
Ginseng per lb. 20 c. to 24
Grain, barley, per bufliel, 73 to Sot.
■ ■ best shelled, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per buihel, 40 c.
3ndian corn, 51 c. Oats 35 c. pr. fcufh.
Rye 44c, Wheat 91c.
Herrings, per barrel 3d.
Hoops, hogshead, per M. Isd.
■ Barrel, 7d to Bd.
Hams, per lb. 8 c. to 9
Hemp, imported, -per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67c.
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9c. to j j
indigo, Carolina, per lb. 1 deU to 1 dol. 10 c«
Iron, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
Cartings, per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nail-rods per ton 96 dols.
Pig, per ton, 24 dols* to 26 dols. 67 c.
Sheet, per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
1 Leather, foal, per lb. 14c. to 17c. 20c:
j Logwood per ton 24d.
Lard, hogs, per lb. 30c. to 11
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
In pigs, — — 5 dols. 33 c. to 5 dols. 67 c,
Red, ——6 dob. 40 c. to 0 dols. 67 c.
White, —— jo dols. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Mackerel, best, per bbl. Bd.
| Madder, best, per lb. 16c. to 20c.
j Myrtle wax per lb. 16 c.
Molafles, per gal. 44 c. to 50
Nails, Bd. iod. i2d and 2od. per lb. ioc.
Mi*tmeg's, per lb. 7 to 8 dollars
Oil, Linseed, per gallon, 65 to 67 c*
— Olive, 87c.
per cafe 2d. 50c.
Sweet best in baskets, 12 bot. sd.
30 flafks, in boxes lod 50c.
Spermaceti, per gal. 48c.
———Train 24c. to 27c.
■ Whale, 22c. to 2/jc.
Pepper, per lb. 30c .
Pimento, 18 c. to 20c*
Porter per cask, sd. 33c.
Porter, Loudon, per dozen, 1 dol. 60 c»
American, do. 1 d. 4 c. to 1 d. 60 c.
Pitch, per barrel, 1 dol. 73 c. to 2 dols.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 1 idols to II d 33c
Lower County, do. 10 dols,
Carelina, do. 9 tois.
Raisins, Mufcatella, per box -jd,
Jar do. per iar 2d. 50c.
6un do. per keg 9d.
Rice, per 112 lb. 2 dols. 50 c. to 2 dol. 67 c.
Rolin, per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 d 015.67 c.
Rum, Antigua, per gallon, 1 dol.
Barbadoes, do. do. 83 c.
New-England, &c. 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. 7c.
Windward JfJand, S6c.
Salmon, per bbl. 6d. 50c. to 7d.
Scantling, heart, per M. 23d. 33c.
Sap, Sd. to 8d 67c.
Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 2d. 33c. to 2d 67c.
2 feet, s<i 33c. to 6
*3 feet, drefied, 13d.r0 i^d.
Salt, (Allum) per bufheJ, 24 to 27 c.
Cadiz, . 23 to 24 c.
LUbon, — — 25 to 27 c.
Liverpool, 29 c.
Skins, Deer, in hair, per lb. 20 to 30 c.
Red, ditto, ——— 26 to 33 c.-
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
Havanna, whire, per lb. 17 to 18 c.
Brown, per lb. 11 to izc.
Muscovado, per cwt. 13 d. to 15 d.
Lump, per lb. 24 c.
Loaf, single refined, 26 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 c.
Tallow, refined, per lb. 9 c.
pe»r box 13d. 33c. to 67c.
Tar, New-Jerley, 24 gal. to the brl. 1 do].
Carolina, 32 gal. 1 dol. 33 c. to 1 dbl. 67
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. 67 c. to 2 dols.
Tea, Hyson, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
H)fon skin, 53 c. to 67
Soufliong, 50 c'. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 31 c. to 33^
Tobacco, James Rivfcr, best. per cwt. 3 do to. 60
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 3 dols. 33c.
'Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 3 dols. 33 c.
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl, 33 c. to 8
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, ?. ools. 40 c.
East em Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dols. 23 c.
Carolina, old, 3 dols. 33 c
Carolina, new, 2 ools. 7 c. to 3 dols.
V#"infe, Madeira, per pipe, 176 dl. to 226 dl. 67c;
Lisbon, —— 120 to 126
Teneriffe, per gal. 63.
Fayal, « 52
Port, per pipe, 33 c.
Sherry, per gal. 90 c. to id. 20c.
'bo
Printed arid fold by
MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. Americ-an Museum, from its commencement
n January 1787, to June 1792, w eleven volvnte.
Prize, neatly bound and lettered } Seventeen dcliarsj
and three fifths.
This work which As now conduced at an im
proved pi an, containing the heft pieces publijhedfor
and again/I the proceedings of government, will'bt
found to contain at leajl as great a variety of poli
tical, agricultural, and mijcellaneous ejfays, as any
ever publijhed in America. Perhaps in no one wi>rk
are so many valuable documents reJpeHing the hijio
ry of this country, colleßed together. His excel-
Uncy the President of the United States, has de
clared of it, that *' a more ufeful literary plan
has never been undertaken in America, nor one
more deserving of public encouragement." Tht
jubfeription is two dollars and a half per annum.
Gentler en in the country who wish to be fuppliea
with this work, are requefied to give commijjion tc
friends in the city to ftibjcribe Jor and receive it.
2. Smithes letters to married women, on nurjing
Ijfkd the management of children, "We recommend
these letters to theperufal of those to whom they are
particularly addtejJ'ed.' Monthly Review, Vol, 38,
Page 101. Price bound Jive eighths of a dollar,
Duncan s elements of logic. three fourths of a
dollar.
4. Beauties of Fielding, 50 cents.
5. Beauties of Blair, 50 cents,
6. Ladies' Pocket Library— ccnteining :—MiJi
Ejj'ays sGGregorysy y s Legacy ; Lady Pen-
advice ; Marchionejs of Lambert*s ad
vice j Swft y s letter to a newly married lady j
Mrs. Chapcne on command of temper j More s fa
bles for the ladies—--Price 6/6.
- 7. Smith's History of New-Yprk. Price a dol
lar and a quarter.
7. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, 1.1.d. profejjor of moral philosophy and logic
in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen-—Price three
fourths of a dollar* Of this book the Critical Re
viewers (vol. 69. p. bz%) fay :" We have seen
nothing on these fubjetfs morep plaitn t more perfpicu
us, or more generally ufeful
9. Beauties of Poetry,Pricefour fifths of a
dollar,
10. Blair's Sermons,-- Price two dollars,
11. Neckar's Treat ife on the importance of reli
gious opinions. Price four fifths of a dollar.
12 Examination of the obfervatiens of Lord Shef
field on American Commerce. Price, on very fine
paper, five eighths of a dollar.
13.7 he Confiitutions of the several United States,
with the federal Conjlitution, &c. Price five
eighths of a dollar•
14 M'Fingal, Price three eighths of a dollar,
15. American Jest Book, three fifths of
dollar.
• 16. Garden of tfce Soul, half a dollar,
17* The Douay Tranjlation of the vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto. Price, elegantly cound and lettered,
50/2 —plain, fix dollars.
Said Carey has for sale, a large assortment oj
books, European as it ell as American editions,
which he will dispose of on the mojireafonable terms,
Country gentlemen, who favor him with commands,
muy depend upon being J'upplied in the moji fatisfac
tory manner. A liberal allowance to such as fur -
chafe quantities for public librariei, or to fell again.
May 17. 6m.la.w.
*,* Three handsome Editions of the Laws
of the United States for sale at this office
(No. 209 Market fireet) in fslio and oSa
vo, either full or half bound—N.B. The
of the lafl SeJJlon 9 in oElavo only 9 may
be hadfef urate, price three eighths qf a dohat4
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE subscriber returns his most refpe&ful
compliments to his friends, and the public
for the many favours he has received, and btgs
leave to inform them that he has upon hand, a
few fine toned FORTE PIANOS, which he will
warrant luperior to any imported, 2nd which he
will dispose of on reasonable terms.
The great number of For t e Pi an os lately
imported from London and Dublin, induces the
lubfcriber to caution the public against the artful
infinuatious of perfofta, commifiioned to vend
them, who for a very trifling compensation re
commend instruments that are nothing but the
refufe of European mufic-lhops, and imported a:
a mere trifle, and fold for the fame price as a good
instrument, to the great disappointment of the ig
norant purchaser, who generally pay as much for
repairs in a year or two, as the original cofc of a
■t>od instrument.
N. B. Musical instruments let out by the
month or quarter, likewise mutfcal instruments
tuned and repaired in the best manner, and on the
inoft reasonable term?, by
CHARLES TAWES,
No. 60, Walnut near Third-ftredt*.
October 10. 4c
TAKE NOTICE.
WHEREASa mulatto mannamed LUKE,
the property of the subscriber living in
Accomack county, Virginia, ran away from
him on the firft day of September lad, and was
taken up and committed to the gaol of Newcas
tle county, in the State t>f Delaware, on the 14th
day of September, where he remain'd until the
4th of this inflant, Otlober, when a Mr. Jonesj
who said he lived in Frederick Town, in the
county of Cecil, in Maryland, appeared and pro
duced a Benjamin Fergufon, who made oath
that he fufpefcted the said Have to be a freeman,
named John Wright, tvho had failed with the
said Fergufon in a ichooner belonging to the said
Jones, and had committed a burglary on board
of her in July test, in consequence of which the
said slave was delivered by order of the hon.
David Finney-, a supreme judge of the said state
of Delaware, to Ihe said Jones, to take his trial
for the said supposed 'offence. As lam fully
convinced from the description of the said
slave, given to me by the gaoler, that he is my
property, and that the said Fergufon has iniftaken
him for Wright, I do hereby direst thefaid Mr.
| ones, and Fergufon, to return the laid slave to
the place from whence they took him, and to
inform me thereof, otherwise I shall proceed
according to law. ,
JOHN CROPPER, Jun.
08. 16th. t)9». aa.w.jw.
Terres a Vendre
Dam un pai's bicn peuple',—
S AVOIR, foixante cinq mille, crois foix*
ante et quatorze Acres, en une feolt piece,
dans le canton le mieux jxeuple de la Caroii' e Me
ridionale, Je Diftii£fc de Ninety -Six. Ces terres
font fituees dans une contree agreable, et falubre,
ou les fievres font inconnuej j a environ vingt lieues
de Colombie, la Capitale, et contigtes ala ville
de Cambridge, ou il y a College, et Cour fuperi
eure. A environ douze lieues, iJ y a bonne navi
gation jet il eft tres probable, que dans quelquc
terns on rendra navigable le Grand Saiiide, riviere
qui arrofe les terres memes. Hi les font agreable**
ment diverfiliees de coteaux et vallons charmanr»
propres a la culture du tabac, du coton, du mais
et du petit grain 3 et dont une proportion consider
able fe peut ailement convertir en prairies fertiles,
il n'eft peut-ctre gueres pofiible de rencontrer une
pareilie piece de terre a vendre dans aucun autre
desErats Unis ; et pour les conditions de
on les rendra tres commodes.
S'informer a Timprimerie de la Gazette Na
tional. Sept. 5.
LANDS por SALE,
IN a well fettled Country. SIXTY-FIVE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY-FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in one
body, in the mo ft populous part of the ftatp of
South-Carolina, in thediftrift of Ninety-fix—lt
is situated in a line healthy climaf,free from fever
& ague,about sixty miles from Columbia, the feat
piC government. The land is contiguous to the
town of Cambridge, where are a seminary for the
inftrudtion of youth, and a superior law court. It
is at prelent within about thirty-five miles of good
navigation, with a probability of having the river,
called the Great Saluda, that flows along one fide
of the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
fully diverSfied into swells and vales, and is per
fectly well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
Itton, Indian corn, and small grain j a great
proportion of it may be made meadow ground.-
There is noc, perhaps, such a body of land, focir
cumftanced, for sale in any other of the U; States.
The terms of payment will be made convenient to
the purchaser or purchafeis. Apply to the Printer.-
August 29 ♦ iawtf
NOTICE.
THIS is toforwarn all masters of veflels and
others, at their peril, not to take a certain
mulatto Boy, named Lewis Boget, formerly of
Cayenne, out of this city, he being lawfully bound
and apprenticed to me, untill 16th Nov. 1793 5
as I have reason to fufpeft he is endeavouring to
leave this city. JAMES ROBERTSON.
New-York, O&ober9.
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and SWA IN E,
AT TJiEIR OFFICE Noi 209, HIGH-STREET
f
NEAR FIFTH-STf.EET,
PHILADELPHIA*