Vol. I.
To the Editor of the National Gazette.
S I R,
SHOULD any individual attempt tc
call in question the right to repre
sentation in the people of the lower dif
tri£l of Georgia, if luch a query did noi
fpringfrom despotic principles, it woulc
only be termed ignorance in the ex
treme ; but it being universally and in
dubitably granted that the people o
the lower diftrift of the-(late of Georgi;
have a right to representation, so b)
viriue of that right, two persons are in
dividually presented to them as candi
dates for election. The people convenec
gave in their votes, but some time aftej
( ongrefs declares one of these two can
didates to be unduly elected : now le
us fee what will folldw. The people
have a right to representation ; two can
didates only offer, one of which the)
have a right, and one of which they afe
to choose ; but Congress declares thai
the votes of one of these two candidates
are illegally given in, thereforethe othei
must be the person legally elected : the
people having a right to representation.
coni'equently one of these candi
dates must be constitutionally fcoffeflec
of the' right of representing by choice o!
the people. If not, the people's righi
to representation is totally fubvertect—
If any gentlemen will shew, that Gen
Jackion's right to a feat in Congress i:
not a light, founded on a right of the
people of the lower diftrift of Georgi;
to representation, it will be a grand dif
covery ; it will bea short way to arifto
cracy, which has been hitherto unex
plored on this fide the Atlantic.
Can the citizens of the United State;
be so blinded by federalifrn, as not tc
peixeivo the dangerous Kndorfcy oi
such a precedent ? certainly not.
But the conflitution fays, each House
fhallbethe judgeof theele&ion returns,
& qualificationsof its own members, and
therefore that the House of Represen
tatives might the more ftriftly and pro
perly ast in the capacity of a court oJ
judicature, while in its Legislative au
thority, entered into rcfolutions which
were to be to them laws to guide anc
direst them, so that in the course of the
approaching trial they might not con
found the legislative with the judicia;
authority. Yet, was it ever known ir
a court of judicature in a cafe of righl
and wrong that the plaintiff by produc
ing incontestable evidences to prove the
illegality of the defendant's claim, did
not thereby establish his own ripht r
And what do we next behold P Con
gress ading in the character of three
diftinft persons. If any gentleman wili
deny it, then must he allow that the
proceedings of Congress in the cafe ©J
Generals Wayne and Jackson to be
more ariftocratical, and more arbitrary
than ever the British Parliament was ir
the cafe of Wilkes and Luttrel ; yet the
British Parliament too well knew the
right to representation in the Freehol
ders of Middlesex county to seclude
both the candidates, which would toe
glaringly cut off their right to rdprefen
tation, and thereby alarm the whole nati
on, but that they might get the man (foi
no other they could get) whose princi
ples they knew would more uniformk
harmonize with their own, they magni
fied the obje&ions made again ft Wilkes,
his principles being then obnoxious tc
their measures ; and perhaps some have
veryjuftly apprehended that a fimilai
motive was an actuating principle in
the precluding General Jackson from a
feat here.
By aggravating the objections made
against Wilkes, they endeavoured there
by to have some pretext, however tri
fling, topalliate their arbitrary proceed
ings in hauling in a man over the heads
of the people whose principles they ab
horred : but the cafe as to the candi
dates here, is not applicable, for Gene
ral Jackson has evidently proved the il
legality of General Wayne's elc&ion,
By P. FR E NEA U : Publijked Mondays and Ihursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
MONDAY, April 16, 1792.
and Congress lias as evidently confirm
ed the validity of his testimony. But
Congrefsgoes farther than the British
Parliament, by declaring, that neither of
the candidates have a right to a feat
with them, and so by the word of theii
power cuts off the right to representa
tion in the lower diftritt of Georgia
yet how it comes they are both fecludecl
and the lower diftriti remains unreprc
fented, I'll leave to the political philofo
pher to account for. Should any gen
tleman endeavour to confute what ha:
been here iaid, we will proceed to the
firft, and fee how far Congress has aftec
in the charatter of three diflinft per
sons, and thereby flopped beyond th<
limits of the constitution.
ihey in their judicial capacity paffec
judgment on General Wayne's ele&ior
by declaring its invalidity, yet the ide;
of seven eighths of the people annexed ti
lucli a declaration, was, that by Con
;jrels' declaring the illegality of the
one, it established the right of the other
a right existing, and that only betweer
the two candidates ; but the wifefl ar>.
liable to mistake, and the people fel
their disappointment.
In all cales coming before a court ol
judicature there mufl be at lead foui
persons concerned ; a plaintiff, defend
ant, testimony, and judge: And now.
in the proceedings of Congress againfl
the valMity 'of General Jackson's eiefti
on, whom do we behold as plaintiff r
why, Congress—whom do we fee as tes
timony ? why Congress—and who the
judge P why who but Congress ? But
the contlitution fays, Each House fliali
be ihe judge of the ele&ipn, &c. Ye;
truly : yet in that article the conllitu
tion never said nor never meant, to invou
in Congress a power to etiter intojudg
ment againfl the ele&ion of any candi
date without some allegation being firfl
made to them by a citizen of the Unitec
States. But who petitioned againfl th«
validity of General Jackson's election i
why none, and might not Congress b)
the fame authority witlr which the>
precluded General Tackfon expel j
member from Virginia
or Pennsylvania ; nay, even the wholi
minority might be expelled!
Awake ! arise ! ye Freemen of Geor
gia ; ye citizens of the United States
for it equally concerns you all ; anc
learn, that you may teach your chil
dren to despise and shun the man or fei
d! men who would wish to propagate
the pernicious principles which arc
taught in the fchobl of British ariflo
cracy : anitocracy, an hydra which ij
ever grasping to devour the defencelel:
poor man's rights. ANTHERO.
April g.
' • BSWP~Tr r—» .1.1
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft Session, begun and held a- thc'clfy o:
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennfjlvani;
on Monday the twenty-fourth of October, 0111
thousand leven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT for finifiixg the Light-House ei,
Baldhead at the mouth of Cape Fear ri
ver in the State of North-Carolina.
BE it matted by the Senate and House oj
Representatives of the United States oj
America, in Congress affee,tiled, -That the
Secretary of the I reaiury, under the di
rection of the Prefidcnt of the United
States, be authorized, as loon as may be
to cause to be finifhed in such manner
as shall appear advifeable, the light
house hitherto begun under ihe autho
rity of the slate of North-Carolina, on
Baldhead at the mouth of Cape Fear
river in the laid slate : And that a lum.
not exceeding four thousand dollars,
be appropriated for the fame, out oi
any monies heretofore appropriated,
which may remain unexpended, after
fatisfying the purpose for which they
were appropriated, or out of any other
monies, which may be in the Treasury,
not fubjeft to any prior appropriation.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of the
Hoiife of Representatives.
John Adams, Vtee-Prcfulent us the
United States, and President
of the Senate.
Approved, April tkefecond 1792.
17 G. Washington, President of the
United States.
* ■ -X.. .
PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Tuesday, April 10.
A bill refpeiting Consuls and Vice
( onluls ivaj read a third time, with the
amendments, palled, and returned to
the Senate.
4.n engrossed bill, to extend the time
h. etoforc g'i anted fc/* tlit: payment 01
the duties on certain teas, imported in
fo he United States, alter the 3d oi
1791, was read a third time/and
passed.
An engrossed bill, for apportioning
tjsprefentatives among the (everal Rates'
a. cording to the firft enumeration, was
read a third time, passed (yeas 28; nays
1;) and lent to the Senate lor their con
currence ; —and
In about an hour after, Mr. Secreta
ry Otis notified theHoufe, that the
Senate had palled the said bill.
Mt» Otis delivered a second message,
irfiormiiig that the senate had toacui -
red sn the amendments, proposed bv
the House, to the bill for altering the
time for holding the circuit courts in
certain diftrifts of the United States, —
and to the bill concerning Consuls and
Vice Consuls.
Mr. Seney reported a bill to direst
the settlement of a certain claim of the
state of Maryland , which was twice
read.
Mr. Speaker signed the following
enrolled bills, viz.
A bill fixing the compensations oi
the door-keepers of Congress.
A bill fupplemenrary to the ast for
the establishment and support of light
houses, beacons, buoys, and public
piers.
A bill to ercft a light house 011 Mon
tock Point, in the Hate oi' New-York—
and
A bill to afccrtain the bounds of a
tract of land, purchased by J. C.
Symmes.
In committee of the whole, a bill to
indemnify the estate of Major General
N. Greene, was conlidered and amend
ed.
Being reported with the amendments,
and further amended in the House, it
was ordered to be engrolfed for a third
reading. Yeas 37, Nays 23.
Yeas—Messrs. Ames, Baldwin.
Barnwell, Benfon, S. Bourne B. Bourn.
Findley, Fitzfimons, Gerry, Giles.
Gordon, Gregg, Griffin, Hartley, Hei
fter, Huger, Key, Kittera, Laurance.
Learned, Lee, Livermore, Madison,
Mercer, Muhlenberg Murray, Page.
Parker, Sedgwick, Sheredine, W.Smith
Sterret, Thatcher, ' Venable, Vining.
Wadfworth, Willis— 37
Nays—Messrs. Alhe, Boudinot.
Brown, Clark, Goodhue, Grove, Hill
houfe, Jacobs, Kitchell, Macon, Moore.
Niles, Schoonmaker. Seney, J. Smith.
I. Smith, Steele, Sturges, Sumpter,
Tredwell, Ward, White, William
fon—23.
The amendments, proposed by the
Senate to the militia bill, (thirty one in
number) were taken into conlideration.
and all agreed to, except the last, which
was thought of too serious a nature to
be adopted without mature deliberati
on, and was under difcuflion, when the
Iloufe adjourned. It is, to add, at
the end of the bill, the two following sec
tions :
' And be it further enacted, That the
Prefidcnt of the United States is here
by authorized to call out the militia, or
such part thereof as the exigence may
in his opinion require, to execute the
laws oi the union, suppress infbrredlions,
and rcpei invai-.ons,. And v. en mi
litia are employed in the fervics of the
United States, they shall receive the
fame paj- and 4]« wages' as are now
made to the troops in lervice."
'And pe it further cnafted, That if
any officer or private soldier of the mi
luia, being ordered into the lervice of
the United States purfuarit to the t-ou -
cis herein given, ihall rcfufe obedience
to such orders, he shall forfeit, to theufe
of the United States, a lum not exceed
ing t;ic amount of one year's pay of such
officci or loidier refpe&i vely, as herein
eltabliihed. And the rnditia while in the
i>.rvice6jf the United States, fliall be
l ubjiett to the • ulcs and articles of war :
fi.>.-:ded, i h..t -J>e C,iurts Martial,
by v. hom tli y fiiali be fab;e£s to be tri
ed. shall bs ccmpofcd entirely of mili
tia officers, of the fame slate with the
pfieudo
:
W-e.dnf.sday, April 11.
The memoriarl©f;T. Fielder, inventor
of an apparatus fwfaeilit'ate navigation,
praying the aid of Cortgrefs to°carry
his project into executronj- was read
and ordered to lie on rHe fable ; as was
also a memorial from the commissioners
of the city and county of Philadelphia,
refpcfting : .daiic.n for the life of
the city jail, heretofore ceded to Con
gress ;—and a memorial from the mer
chants of New-Yoriq rremonftrating a
gainst the proposed augmentation of'ihe
impofl duties.
A memorial.Jfom the inhabitants of
the towns of Cincinnati, and Columbia,
on the little Miami, was referred to a
feleft committed.
A memorial was read, from Signor
Giufeppe Ceracchi (the artist, who ex
ecuted (lie bufl that /lands over Mr.
Speaker's chair) letting forth that lie is
ready to enter upon the execution of a
design for the national monument,
which he some time ago laid before
Congress. Referred, togetlier with his
former memorial, to Meil'rs. Gerry,
Benfon, Lee, Murray and Tucket?.
Presented by the committee of enrol
ment and figued by Mr. Speaker, the
Reprelentation bill, and the bill for al
tering the times for holding the Circuit
Courts in certain diftrifts of the United
States.
Mr. Secretary Otis delivered a mes
sage notifying the House, that the Se
nate had concurred in palling the bill
to indemnify the truflees of Wilming
ton academy.
Mr. l'itzfimons, from the committee ap
pointed, reporteda bill for raising a fur
ther lum of money, for the protection of
the rionticrs; which was twice read, &
referred to a committee of the whole,
on Friday next. [This bill is to carry
intoeffeit the Resolutions, reported bv
the committee of the whole on Ways
and Means, and adopted by the Iloufe
on Saturday last ; and belides, contains
sundry regulations, not contained in
the said relolutions.]
An engrofTed bill to indemnify the
estate of the late Major General N.
Greene, was read a third time, and af
ter a debate of some length, passed—
yeas 33—-nays 24.
Y eas—Mclfrs, Ames, Baldwin, Barn
well, Benfon, S. Bourne, B. Bourne,
Findley, Fitzfimons, Gerry, Giles'
Gregg, Griffin, Hartley, Hcifler, Key'
Kittera, Lau ranee, Learned. Lee Liv
ermore, Madison, Mercer, Muhlenberg
Murray, Page. Parker, W. Smith, Sterl
rett, rhatcher, V enable, Vittin (j . Wadf
worth, Willis— 30.
Numb. 49.Nays—Meflr?. Afhe, Boudinot, Brown,
Clark, Goodhue, Gordon, Grove, Hill
houfe, Jacobs, Kitchell, Macon, Moore,
Is'iles, Schoonmaker, Seney J. Smith, I.
Smith. Steele, Sturges, Sumpter, T red
well, Ward, White, Williamfon— 24.
The House proceeded to the further con
federation of the two additional fefliou;
proposed by the Senate to the Militia
Bill.
The unlimited power which this amend
ment would confer on the Prefiilent, ol
calling out the citizens of the United States,
and fubjeftiilg them to Martial Law,
was the ground of a warm opposition,
which was supported to a late hour, when
the House adjourned without taking the
question.
Thursday April 12.
The memorial of John Gibbons, treasurer
of the Hate of Georgia, was referred to the
Secretary of War, to examine, and report.
Two enrolled bills, viz.
A bill, concerning confnls and vice con
fids,— artd
A Kill to compenrtite the trustees of the
public grammar school of Wilmington in
the state of Delaware, —were signed by
Mr. Speak?p, andt j>re£ented to the Prefi
cent of the United States for his approba
tion, together with a bill to alter the tiflief
for holding the circuit courts in certain
diftrifts of the United States, and the re
presentation bill.
Mr. Secretary Lear delivered a mefTage,
notifyiug the House, that the President hac
approved and signed an ast to ascertain the
bounds of a trad of land purchaled by J.
C. Symmes.
A bill from the Senate, for regulating
procefies in the courts of the United States
&c. was (together with the amendment:
thereto, reported by the feleft committee
referred to a committee of the whole, anc
made the order of the day for to-morrow.
The House resumed the consideration o:
the two additional feclions proposed by the
Senate to the militia bill, vesting the Pre
sident with a perpetual and unlimited pow
er to call out the militia at anc
fubjeft them to martial law, &c. &c.
The fubjeft Was again Warmly debated :
and among other arguments in favour ol
concurring with the Senate, it was said
that, in cafe, for infhmce, of an infiirrec
tion in the city of Philadelphia, it might
perhaps be expedient for the executive tc
lead an army of Jersey militia across the
Delaware, te qtlell it; and the conduct of
fbme people in the back parts of Pennsylva
nia, (who, it was said, refufed to pay cer
tain taxes, and had insulted feme of the
officers of government) was mentioned a;
a proof of the neceffiw ps tiling compulfon
means to enforce obedience to the laws oJ
the union. It w-as said on the other hand
that nothing could have a stronger tenden
cy to create jealoilfies and disunion betweer
the Hates, than to empower the Prefidenl
thus to make the militia of one state the in
struments to be employed 111 subduing the
citizens of another ; and that the power;
which the Senate meant to confer on hiir
by this amendment, would be tonfiderabl)
greater, than are poffefled by the King oi
England. See, See.
Mr. Kittera moved the following a
mendment :
'Provided neverthe'efs that they [the
militia] fliall not be obliged to march be
yond the limits of the United States; nor
ihall any person, enrolled in the militia a<
aforefaid, be compelled to serve thereir
more than two months in fix : and thai
this authority be continued, in the Prefi
dentof the United States, for one year
from the palling of this law."
A division being called for, three separate
questions were taken on the several clauses
of this proviso ; and all palled in the nega
tive,—several gentlemen voting against it,
who declared that they would vote in the
affirmative, if there was any probability
that the Senate's amendment would be a
greed to.
Mr. Fitzfimons then moved the follow
ing amendment : —
•Provided always, and be it further en
acted, that the powers herein given to the
President of the United States, for calling
out the militia, be and continue in force
till the end of the next session of Cengrefs,
and no longer.
Some gentlemen thinking this motioii
out of order, Mr. Speaker declared it to be
in order ; and on an appeal to the House,
and the question being taken, the decifioti
of the chair was confirmed.
The queltion being then taken on Mr-
Fitzfunons's proportion, palfed in the af
firmative yeas, 37, nays, 20.
\ eAs— Mefli-s. Ames, Barnwell, Ben
fon, Boudinot, S. Bourne, B. Bourne,
Clark, Fitzfimons, Gilman. Goodhue,
Cregg, Griffin, Hartley, Heifter, Hillhoule,
Huger, Kitcheil, Kittera, Laurance,
Learned, Lee, Madison, Moore, Muhlen
oerg, Murray, Niles, Seney, Sheredine,
J.Smith, Sterrett, Sylveiter, Thatcher,
Tredwell, Tucker, Vininp, Wadfworth,
Ward-37.
Nays—Meflh. Afhe, Baldwin, Gerry,
( les, Grove, Key, Livermore, Macon.
Mercer, Page Parker-, Schoonmalfer, I.
Smith, W. Smith, Steele, Sturges, Sump
ter, Venable, White, Willis, —20.
The question was then taken on the
firfl of the additional fe&ions, thus amend
ed andpalTed in the negative—yeas, 24,
nays, 37.
Yeas—Meflrs. Ames, Barnwell, Ben
ton, S. Bourne, B. Bourne, Findley, Fitz
(imons, Gilman, Goodhue, Gordon, Gregg,
Hartley, Hillhoufe, Kittera, Laurance,
Learned, J. Smith, W. Smith, Sylvester,
Thatcher, Vinirtg, Wadfworth,Ward — 24.
Nays—Meflrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Bou
dinot, Brown, Clark, Gerry, Giles, Grif
fin, Grove, Heifter, Huger, Key, Kitchell,
Lee, Livermore, Macon, Madison, Mer
cer, Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray, Niles,
Page, Parker, Schoonmaker, Seney, She
redine, I. Smith, Steele, Sturges, Sumpter
Tredwell, Tucker, Venable, White, Wil
liamfon, Willis— 37.
The other of the additional feftions was
negatived almost unanimously.
A committee was then appointed (or
[notion of Mr. Gerry) to prepare a bill or
bills for calling forth the militia, when ne
ceflary, to execute the laws of the union,
0 suppress insurrections, and repel inva
[ions.
Some gentlemen wished, that (until the
Dufinefs entrusted to this committee
(liould be in some degree of forwardnefs
the militia bill should be detained in the
House, and no meflage sent to the Senate,
to notify thein of the proceedings and de
cision on their proposed amendments.
No order however was given 011 the
"übject ; and the business was left to take
its ordinary tourfe.
A bill to direst the settlement of a cer
tain claim of the state of Maryland, wa
taken up by a committee of the whole
House, who, after some time spent in de
bate, rose and reported progress.
Friday, April 13.
A meflage from the Senate, by Mr. SecrcLirj
Otis, informed the House, that the President o
:he United States had notified the Senate thai
ie had approved and signed the following Ails ;
An adl supplemental to the adl for the eha
blifhment and support of light houses, beaconsjuit!
iiuoys—Ana<stfor fining the compensations of th<
foor keepers of bothHoufes of Congress—And ar
idl for building a light house on Montock point
n the state of New- \ ork.
In committee of the whole on the report of tht
secretary of the Treasury refpe&ing alteration:
,n the excise law. Mr. Seney in the chaii.
Mr. Fitzfimons laid on the table sundry refolu
:ions for modifying the law—these resolution
were read by the chairman-a motion for th<
rommittee to rife in order to referring them to ;
eletff cpmmittec ior the pnrpofe of reporting :
>ill, occafiontd some debate, and was at lcngtf
negatived— the committee then proceeded ir
he difcuflion of the resolutions, and agreed t(
he fame with sundry amendments— which wert
■eported to the House—A motion was ther
nade and carried, that these resolutions fhoulc
:>e printed for the use of the members.
A meflage was received from the Prefi
ient of the United States by Mr. Secretarj
Lear, transmitting to the House the copy oj
1 communication from the minister Pleni
potentiary of Great-Britain to the Secreta
y °f State, relative to the commerce o:
he two countries.
Several letters that palled between the
Secretary of State and the Britifli Minister
efpefting a determination on the part o:
he Britifli government, to carry their na
vigation ast into execution, were read—tht
"eiult was an explanation on the part of tht
'■ ritifh Minister, by which it appears thai
.heprohibition of American veflels from en
uring the ports of Guernsey and Jersey, i:
llone contemplated by his government.
The Secretary alio informed the House.
hat the bill to compensate the trustees oi
he public grammar fchool,and academy oi
vVilmington, for damages sustained during
he late war, had received the Prelldent';
ipprobation and signature.
A petition of William Heyburn, an inva
id, was read—stating that an applicatior
nadebyhim to the Circuit Court of the
United States, agreeable to a late law, had
:>een rejected by the court; and praying
•elief.
Mr. Boudinot informed the House that
he court considered the law lately palled
tor the relief of invalid pensioners, so fat
is it refpefts the Judges, as unconftitution
—and therefore refufed to execute it.
On motion of Mr. W. Smith, after con
iderable debate, a committee of five was
ippointed to enquire into the state of facts
et forth in the petition of William Hey-
Jurn, and to rep- to the House.
Adjourned till Monday.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
On the originating Revenue Bills by the
Secretary.
[In continuation from our lajl. ]
IT is alio asserted that members, or even
select committees, convinced of their
want of capacity, will have recourse to the
Secretary for information and assistance,
and that it is better to bring that informa
tion and assistance into the House openly
ior the equal benefit of all the members,
than to have it introduced in the way of
private influence. This argument is also
delusory. If the Secretary's reporting fyf
tems and efl'ays, would prevent private in
fluence, it would at lead be one recom
mendation : but so far from this, it gives £
much greater inducement and facility tc
private influence. The minister will na
turally form a union of views and senti
ments with some influential members, whc
will understand his systems previous to theii
being reported, and be prepared to fupporl
them ; hence some local interests will be
comparatively opprefled or overlookec
more than others, to secure the support ol
a party on the floor. The minister's cha
racter being at stake, he and his friends wil
make greater exertions ; from fuel) afource
we may expeit to hear of bargains, combi
nations, deception, and all the arts of ;
ttrookeel and mysterious policy. Therefore
the influential power of originating system
and transmitting arguments, is much th<
more objectionable because of that private
nfluenee, and even corruption to which i
is an efficient stimulus.
Though from the infancy of our govern
ment when thispra£lice of originating re
t'enue bills was introduced, we may reason
ably conclude that the novelty of our fitua
tion and the urgency of our affairs diftatee
the measure, yet we know from the expe
rience of all governments, that it is not ne
cefl'ary to open avenues for corruption, no
make apologies for indolence and inatten
tion in public bodies. It is too soon to in
Julge a suspicion relpecting our virtue, ane
yet, young as our government is, there art
not wanting those who fufpeft that fron
the superior knowledge some persons hat
of the funding system, while in embryo
enormous and uncandid speculations wen
made : it is alio iuggefted, that an encreafi
of the debt of th: union, and the molt ob
noxious of all taxes, could never have fuc
:eeded, if it had not been for the influence
irifing from other causes. But public ere
lito :s, too many of whom get their wealtl
Without ufeful industry, complain, that i;
-he Secretary doth not continue to origi
nate the fifcal arrangements, they would ge
nto confuiion, the credit of the Unitec
States would fail, that we would reduce
.he Secretary of the Treasury to a meii
:ommiftioner ol the revenue, and that he
would not be responsible for the meafur.es,
*c. This is alio proving too much, if ii
jroves any thing.
That information of the actual ftatc oi
.hmgs, respecting the execution and effici
ency of the laws, is to be derived throng!
executive officers, is admitted ; but if th<
irrangement of the revenue laws and the
'redit of the United States depends upoi
he minister's power to originate the fyf
eins and fettle the principles, it depends or
i {lender thread indeed ; certainly he can
lot originate revenue systems without the
Jermiliion ot the House ; therefore they car
with the fame ease reject this mode oj
>ringing them forward, as they can rejetl
lis systems when reported. With refpe£ttc
educing or degrading the Secretary, it me
"its no answer ; the Seci etary's office wai
nltituted for the use of the government,
ind not the government for the use of the
secretary's office.
This method was introduced in the infan
cy of the government by a reprefentatior
low known to be very unequal. The ven
general odium that even the appearance o:
minilterial influence has among the mass o!
Jie citizens, will certainly produce a rejec
tion of that mode of doing bufmefs, as foor
as an impartial representation takes the
floor, if not fooner—therefore it would be
wiser for the public creditors to put theii
ttonfidence in Congress, and support the
. efpeCtability thereof among the people
than pin their dependence upon the influ
:nce of a minister. I expect there will al
ways be found wisdom and iultice enougl
n Congress to provide honestly for the dif
harge of her debts ; but less extravagance
Hid lolly among the public creditors woute
•ender them more rel'peftable. They cer
tainly have a common interest with the
toinmunity, with this they ought to have
jeen contented, anel not to have erected oi
ought after separate and diftinft moniet
nflitutions, intcrefts and influence. If the
•evenue laws being originated by the Se
tretary occasions them to be such as thej
would not otherwise be, or disposes mem
jers to vote for them that otherwise wouk
lot, an undue ministerial influence is in
troduced. If the systems and argument:
•eported by the Secretary are not calcula
ted to influence the proceedings of the
louse, they are of no use. If they are cal
:ulated for this purpose, they ought not tc
>e permitted.
But there is another circumstance attend;
this mode of conducing business which v
ughly objectionable, if not unconflitution
al—l mean not only the references of the
ways and means, to the minister, but alio
the petitions of the citizens. That claim
of a judicial nature should be referred to a
suitable officer, in order to have the facts
Itated and arranged, is perhaps not impro
per, as public bodies are not well calcula
ted for personal invefligations. But thai
the raoft important public business or the
memorials or remonltrances of the citizen:
refpefting the principles or operations ol
general Jaws should t>e sent for any fhortet
or longer tune out of the power of the
House to which they are dire&ed, is impro
per and disgusting to the citizens. How
;ame the Representatives to have a right to
jut the proper fubjefts of legislative deli
beration out of their power, perhaps for
nonths together ? The Legislature are the
.-onftitutiopal judges of the time of doing
nifinefs, as well as the fubje&s, and it is
:hey only that are responsible with refpeft
:o time, as well as principles.
I will feleft one dangerous effect this
>raftice might produce, if ever we fliould
lave an artful minister ; he might keep the
noft important bufmefs back till the end
>f a session, when the members being anxi
jus to go home, would not have leisure for
erious and critical invertigation —This nnv
>e thought an undue reflection, but I will
kv'V'j-" members of
jublic bodies, if it is not juftifiec! by the ex
perience of almost every adjournment, and
ht'.nnlTfa-" 06 ° f 3 law bein g pasTed at
he end of a session, is not frequently men
.ioned as an apology for its defects. Th
langer of this IS encreafed by the minister
ilways having it in his power to combine
us views with that of foine influential mem
)crs of the Legislature.
That a Secretary who is pofTeffed ofta
ents, pays constant attention to the business
>. finance, and has the materials for calcu
atiori and estimates among his hands, (hould
ligeft revenue systems with greater facility
indtheoretic ingenuity, I will readily grant;
laving out one will to accommodate, mull
ontribute to this. But that he will digest
ifyftemmorefuitable to the interests and
vill of the people, I deny. He doss not,
rom his iituation or manner of life, par .
ake of the fame interefis with the mass of
he people ; he has not a practical know
edge of their circumstances, and therefore
san imperfea judge of their will. He is
inder the ne effity of receiving information
rom the particular class among which he
noves, or from the under officers who are
he creatures of his own appointment, and
vho, n the law which they execute is an
ibnoxiops one, will be of the dregs of the
>eople or hated by them; and such as these
lave been the friends of oppression in all
ountries.
Perhaps the excellence and success of the
irefent funding law may be adduced in
jroof of the wisdom of ministerial revenue
yft ems. For my own part, I think the
uncling system much the worse for the ar
lficial refinement for which it is eminent
certainly since the original obligation was
lot adhered to, the interest might have
)een uniformly lowered, or a part of the
irincipal rejected in such a manner as to
lave been of equal advantage to the credi
ors, and as light upon the revenues as the
jrefent complex system. It is certainly
ounded on theory rather than a knowledge
>f the circumstances of the United States,
surely no body but the minister and those
nterefted in, or dazzled with speculations,
hink that preventing the debt from beina
M.d, other wife than in small and distant in
tallments, gave it a value equal to one
third of the annual interest. What person,
who is poflefTed of 10001. in certificates
upon the interest of which he designs to
upport himfelf or family, will think the
irredeemable quality a fufficient equivalent
for being obliged to live upon ac\. a year
lnftead of 601. I am not here deciding
the public were able to provide
b per cent on all the principal of the debt,
or whether since the contrast was not coml
plied with, the mod meritorious ought not
to have been firft or best served ; these en
quiries are now too late- but I believe the
irredeemable quality and variety of parts
only give them a capacity of being a fitter
liibject for speculating combinations, which
lometimes buoy them up to a fictitious va
lue; &whenever the artificial bubble bursts
they fink to the level of their real value a
gain,& instead offupplying the place ofmo
ney, as they might have done under a more
(miple arrangement, they give greater de
mand tor it and raise the rate of interest.
There can be no doubt but that Congress
might have done equalj uftice to their credi
tors without such ministerial refinements
and much less injury to theftate of society'
One further observation, and I shall con
clude at this time. —It is already observed
that the Secretary ©f the Treasury is an
officer appointed by and dependent on the
pleasure of the President; his sole business
is of an executive nature, and it is a fun
damental principle in government, that the
legislative and executive powers should be
kept dilhnfl and feparate—therefore dele
gating the power of propounding princi-
pies, originating fyfterhs, and bringing ar
guments officially before the House, is con
trary to the principles of a free govern
ment. It is unreasonable to entrust any
person with a power of dictating to the le
gislature the rules by which he himfelf shall
be governed, or the principles of those laws
which it is his duty to execute—Certainly
lfthe Hou.e of Representatives are incapa
ble of originating revenue bills, and must
employ an officcr for that purpose, it ought
to be a person chosen by, and dependent on
that House. If th,e canftitution will not
permit this, much less can it permit an ex
ecutive officer to be employed.
. ~ SIDNEY.
April 12.PHILADELPHIA.
April 16, 1792.
A loan has recently been made in Amster
dam, for the United States, of fix millions
of Florins, at five per cent—another has
since been made in Antwerp, of three mil
lions, at four and one half per cent.
On Tuesday last the Legislature of Penn
sylvania finttied their session, when the Se
nate adjourned to the firft Tuesday of De
cember next, and rhe House of Represen
tatives, without fixing upon any particu
lar day.
We hear that General Anthony Wayne
is appointed commander in chief of
the army intended for the westward ; and
that Col. Morgan, of Virginia, General
Brooks of MafTachufetts, General Wilkin
fon, of Kentucky, and Col. Willett. of
New-York, will be appointed Brigadier
Generals.
Sir John Temple, British Consul for the
United States of America, on the 9th inft.
notified all merchants and others concern
ed in commerce in this country, that in fu
ture the clause in the British navigatipn
ast, prohibiting productions of foreign
countries to be imported into certain parts
of the dominions of the King of Great-Bri
tain, except in British bottoms, is to be
llriftly enforced against all thole who shall
be found trading contrary to the tenor of
the said act.
Mr. Samuel Green, of New-York, has
invented and taken a patent for a machine,
that fafely conducts persons and effects from
houses when on fire. This machine, a mo
del of which is advertised to be seen, it is
said, will deliver ten people, or effects in
proportion, from any height, every minute,
with the greatelt fafety.
On the 26th of November last a Court
Martial was held at Fort Wafhiugton, by
order of Major General St. Clair", for the
trial of Major Hamtramck, charged with
" unofficerly and unfoldierly behaviour, in
fhamefully retreating from, or for fear of
the enemy, on the fourth of this month—
also, for scandalous behaviour in endeavor
ing to prevent a guard from going with pro
visions to relieve Fort Jefferfon" —To these
charges the Major plead not guilty— after a
full and fair trial before a court martial, the
court gave it as their opinion that " the se
veral charges exhibited against MajorHam
tramck are not supported, and therefore do
acquit him with honour. —The prosecuti
on was at the instance of Col. Darke.
Several companies of militia have march
id from Pittfburg, to cover the western
Frontiers of this state : By the latest ac
counts, there has been no discovery of In
dians in those parts, except at or near
Wheeling, 150 miles below Pittfburg,
from whence they had ftoleu four or five
horses.
Landholders in Hampshire are cautioned,
in one of their late papers, to be on their
guard against swarms of southern specula
tors who have been lately attempting to
make large purchases of uncultivated lands
in that state. The harvest of paper specu
lation being over, it is thought these nim
ble gentlemen are now turning their atten
tion to landed property.
The two following paragraphs are from
a New-York paper of last Thursday :
'• Electioneering discussions seem so totally
to absorb the attention of our citizens,
that they take no notice of the progreflive
accumulation of burdens which the general
government is imposing on our commerce.
An augmentation of the present rates of du
ty, as proposed by the Secretary of the
Treasury, mult inevitably tend to oppress
the mercantile, and with it every other
class of interests in this country. That the
present system of import is prefied beyond
its natural bounds, must be obvious to eve
ry person engaged in commerce—that it
far exceeds any commercial impoiitions by
the states, previous to the ratification of the.
federal conflitution, is indubitable."
" Experiments have been made in vari
ous parts of this country to erect and sup
port manufactories of certain fabrics—with
what success let the present situation of the
greater part declare. Strenuous efforts
were made to raise one in the city of New-
York ; but notwithltn'nding every endeavor
of tile reputable characters who patronized
and supported it in its infancy, it has been
gradually declining,& is now alrnoft extinct.
The fame result may be predicted with ref
peft to that proposed to be established in
ISew-Jerfey. Ihe notoriously embarrassed
lituation of its pecuniary funds, as far as
they have been collected, and of the man
(Col. Duer) with whom the projeCt often
hbly originated, are strong indications that
the period of its ultimate difl'olution is not
Very remote."
The fpeculatingtribe in this city (fays a
New-York paper) are funk into the abyss
of inextricable confufion, yet seem to be in
sensible of the dreadful labyrinth in which
they are entangled—instead, however, of
exerting themselves to preserve some kind
of manly character, they are endeavoring
to lower themselves flill mot-e by descend
ing to the mean level of filh-women and
common street boxers !
A correfpondcnt remarks, t hat the late decifior
of the Judges of the United States, in the circuii
court of Pennf Ivania, declaring an a£l of the pre
sent feflion of Congress unconjlilutional, mult be
matter of high gratification 10 every republicar
aid friend of liberty : fir.ee it allures the pcoplt
of ample projection to their constitutional righ :
and privileges, against any attempt of legiflativf
or executive oppreflion. And whilst we view
the exercise of this noble prerogative of th- ju ge:
in the hands of such able, wife and independen
men, as compose the present judiciary of the Uni
ted States ; it affords a jull hope that, not only
fu ure encroachments will be prevented, but alio,
that any exifling law of Congress, which may be
supposed to trench upon the constitutional light:
of individuals, or of Hates, will, at convenieni
seasons, undergo a revision : particularly thatfoi
cftablilhing a National Bar.k; which being an
incorporation a d cxclufive charier of privileges,
violative, as it is conceived, of the independeni
lights and sovereignty ofthe Hates, is deemed by
many of the enlightened citizens of Aincnca, tc
be repugnant io the spirit, meaning and letter ol
the Constitution, and is regarded as a mere ftalf
engine of ministerial contrivance ; on the pre
tence to aid fifcal operations, but in reality, tc
introduce placemen, pensioners, corruption, ve
nality and mtrigue into Congress: of the happ)
effeftsof which, letthofe, who fee, {peak.
Capt. Howell, of the ship Sampson, or
liis passage from this port to China, pick
ed up a wreck in the Chinese seas wit!
fourteen natives of that country thereon,
being all that remained out of (ixty-ninc
chat were on board the vefiel when the dis
aster happened to them. Thole saved b>
the Sampson had been thirty days upon the
wreck when the ship fell in with them,
tiaving subsisted all that time on boobie;
and barnacles, with the pittance of frefli
water that was supplied from the clouds. —
Two of these persons died of joy soon af
:er being taken on board: the reft were
anded fafe at Macao, in China.
On the nth of 'March, the insurgent
French negroes rose at Leogan, (weft end
as Hifpaniola) marched into the town,
and set it on fire ; but fortunately it was
;xtinguifhed with the loss of only 3 or 4
louses. An attack then commenced, when
:he negroes were beat off with the loss of
ibout 1 jco men, and of the whites and imi
iattoes about 500. The negroes burned
nany plantations on the plains, likewise on
:he night of the 16th several large fires were
een about four miles from Port-au-Prince,
ind the inhabitants were daily afraid of the
nulattoes taking the town.
A letter appears in a Halifax paper from
Bowles, the pretended Indian chief, dated
Sf. Providence Aug. 31, 179 1. Inthislet
:er he gives a pompous account of the at
:ention paid to him by Lord Dunmore
Governor of the Bahama Islands) while
here ; and mentions a project in contem
>lation,to build a new town (or feat of
rovernment for an independent state) at
:!ie torks of the Apalachicola, a river run
ling through part of Florida, from the
jiifph of Mexico.
Oj l the 1 ft. instant a boat in crofling
..hriftiana creek (near Wilmington, Dela
ware) unfortunately overset; when through
he inattention of a Mr. Crawley, the con
iuftor, the boat overset and filled with wa
:er. Mr. Crawley was drowned, as were
also four young ladies (the Mi'fs Patter
sons) who were all lifters.
Letters from England mention, that be
lles the Sierra I.eona company, another is
forming for effecting a fettlemeilt in a dif
irift of country called Bullam, on the river
Gambia, in Africa. All free negroes that
choose it are to be sent thither at the es
sence of the company, with the means of
procuring a livelihood. -If these attempts,
md others which are projeaing. should iuc
eed, the gradual civilization of Africa may
je hoped for, which will eventually put an
:nd to the slave trade.
A dispute took place, some months since
L>ir the Cape of Good Hope, between a
french, and an Englilh frigate, called the
The Frenchman had several of
lis men killed and woundedbv a broad-fide
-eceived from the English velTel -Further
particulars are not come to hand.
Extratt of a letter from New-York, April 10.
" Many melancholy reflections would
irife in the breast of an honest man, who
hould now tike a view of the city of New
\ ork, and compare its present situation
ivith what it was ten months ago. Induf
:ry was then prevalent—honest labour was
encouraged, and this city was universally
allowed to be the most flourilhing, in a
commercial view;, on the continent. A
few dengning men have strangely altered
the channel of business ; the unguarded
nave been led into visionary schemes of
amassing immense fortunes in a moment;
the harpies of avarice and lucre have be
guiled the ear of credulity, and have not
3een alhamed to rake the kennels of (lews
and brothels to filch the wretched wa?es of
iniquity from the miserable Rahabs of the
day - wretches who were heaping up im
mense fortunes from the neceflities of the
unrortunate, by privately Jending money at
the enormous interest of 60, j o, and 100
per cent (and even beyond this) not fatisfi
ed with such unconfcionablegaiu, but thirst
ing with the avidity of Tantaius for still
niore, mud needs engage in (peculating
schemes, to add to their vastly accumulated
principal through another channel ! —ls it
not furprifipg that one swindler, of no es
tate, With the affiltance of a few unprinci
pled emissaries, have (in partnerflilp,)
plundered not only this city, but a conlid
erable part of the United StPtes, of their
circulating cash ? To avoid the payment oi
'lis debts, and procure fafety for his life, this
Arch-Swindler has flint himfelf up within
:he walls of a prison, and laughs at the pub
ic calamity ; while the blood-fucking Bro
kers in his employ are dill hovering round
as, like Milton's devils, pimping, soothing
is, and promising redress, without any in
:ention either in him or them, of ever per
forming.—But the day approaches when
ilelays and proposals will not circulate in
stead of payment, and when even a rem6v
al to the dominions of the tyrant of India,
will r.ot protest certain characters from the
Uierited vengeance of an enraged and de
frauded public."
ExtraElof a letter from Savanah of the 14 th oj
March.
' I have the pleasure to inform you, that there
is a profpecS of the Indian line being Ihortly run.
and of our continuing in peace with the Creeks
this summer. A person from the Rock Landing
has just been with me, and fays that Mc. Gilliv"
ray, with a number of Indians, was expe&ed there
this day, determined to comply with that part ol
the treaty. My !aft letters from that place also
speak of it as certain."
The Pittsburgh Gazette of the -th inllant,
mentions, that at a small station between Belpree
and Belville, on the weft fide of the Ohio, the
Indians had killed the wife and three children of
Mr. D. Brown ; who, being at a distance from
the house, with his son, both made their efcapc.
The scalp of the woman was only taken
1 hirty miles lower down, the house of a Mr. M'
Cullough was burnt by the Indians two or three
days before ; the frontier inhabitants had every
reason to think that these were only tITe beginning
of their troubles for the present season
■ Idntei'j people having been fufpeited of these
and other outrages, that chief had written a iet
er to exculpate himfelf and them, as follows :
" My people having been charged with com
hiitting depredations on the frontier inhabitants
near Pittsburgh, I hereby contradiil the assertion
as it is entirely without foundation, and pledge
myfelf to those inhabitants that they may reft
pcrfeif! ly secure from any danger from the Sene
cas residing on the Alleghany waters, and
that my people have been and ltill are friendly
to the United States.
CORNPLANTER."
COMMUNICATION'S.
A paragraphia in the Gazette of theUnitetl
States, whose remarks have been copied
into some of the public prints, would gravely
persuade us, that those, who write againfl
the measures of government, are no more
than ' a dozen pefons!' 1 It is well he is can
did enough to allow there are even twelve
honest men in America, who still preach up
found doctrine. But it is asked, whether
the apostles of the contrary doctrine a
mount to half that number?— From the
dull sameness of the style," it may be pre
sumed, that small indeed is the number o
those worthy gentlemen, who employ theii
leaden pens in eking out those drowsy ful
fome panegyrics upon government, which
every body now begins to smoke, and the
high-fliers themselves can hardly read with
-1 out a sneer.
If the cxcife law has not promoted tem
perance, it has prevented fraud. Doleful
complaints are made of its operation in
this way ; and the manufacture of Gin,
to the east ward, mull soon go to pot, un
less Congress kindly interfere : for it seems
the purchasers of that article in other
parts of the union are not now so ealily
unpofed on, as heretofore; but can, hy
the brands on the calks and cases, at once
deleft home-brewed Jlingo, when offered
to them as foreign Geneva. The Secreta
ry of the Treasury however, has, with his
usual ingenuity, deviled a plan so relieve
diflillers from the hardlhips they fuffer in
consequence of being thus branded: and
accordingly, in his elaborate report on the
Excise, he recommends to Congress to
screen them from detection, by ordering the
fame brands to be affixed to foreign spirits
as to those of domestic manufacture. But
it is to be hoped the southern members
will not consent to have their conltituents
cheatcd and poisoned, loi the benefit of a
few distillers.
OJIKHETA, the INDIAN.
IT was mentioned in the National Gazette
of March 26, that the Indian Peter Jaquttte or
[Otfequetce] alias, Ojikbctaone of the Oneidi
Indian chiefs, who lately died, and was buried
in this city, had been complimented with the
former of tnofc names by the Maiqu de la Fa»-
eite, wi»h whom he went to Fiance, and conti
nued several years. —It is certain that there have
been inlttinces of many Europeans giving a
name, peculiar to their own country, to fava?es
adopted and befriended by them ; as likewise is
1 le cuflom among some of thelndian nations, with
regard to foreigners living with them or under
their proteffion. In the present indancc, howe
ver, the peifon who fuggelled that idea seems to
have laboured under a mifiake, al will appear
from the following of a letter to the Edi
tor, dated Chrijliana Ferry, March 30, 1792.
" In your paper of the 26th we saw an ac
:ount of the death of an Indian chief of the O
neida nation, known by the dime of Peter Ja
juette, who was buried with great pomp in jour
City on the 2lit inft.—We arc inquisitive to
enow how said Indian came by his name, as it is
lot likely that the Marquis de la Fayette would
if he had named him) called him by any other
lame than that of hisownfamily, which is entire-'
y different from the one in quellion, as we well
enow, having had the honour to bear commif
ions with him in the late war. If you Will give
is leave, we will mention a more piobable rea
on how this Indian came by the name of Peter
[aquette. Please to take notice, that one of us
erv?d in the Eritith army in the former French
var, and was well acquainted with many of the
hiefs of the Oneida nation, then under the di
etlion of Sir William Johpfon ; and as the In
lians made it a custom to call their children
liter militaiy officers, we suppose he became en
itled to the name of Peter Jaquettc, bv that
neans. At any rate, wc would be much obliged
otheperfon thatcouljl ascertain from whom he
eally received the said name, as we have travel'*
cd many miles within the United States, and
lever have heard of any who had a right to it
xceptourown family.
Peter Jaquett, Capt. in the old French war.
Peter Jaquett, Maj. Del. Reg. in the latewa-*
Peter Jaquett, linlign Delaw. Reg. Levies.
THE committee of Congress tc* whom the peti
tions of sundry tanners in New-York, New-
Jersey, and Pennsylvania, were com
mitted, beg leave to report,
THAT having examined into the fa£ts
nenlioned in the said petitions, the fol
owing appeared to your committee to be
atisfaftorily eftabliihed. <
That the manufacturing of leather, is a
■ery extensive and important branch of
he manufactories of the United States.
'I'hat the different kinds of bark, are
■ffential raw materials in this manufac
ture.
That the average price of bark for some
'earspaft, has been from three, to four
tnd an half dollars per cord.
That a patent has lately been granted by
he government of Great-Britain, to an
ndividual for the importation of bark, into
hat kingdom, where it is used both in dying
tnd tanning.
That the patentee has employed agents
11 the different states, to purchase and pre
pare bark for exportation.
That the average price given for bark
)y these agents, when shaved, is stated to
je from ten to thirteen dollars per cord.
That great complaints are made by the
anners,that this rife in price, will greatly
njure, if not prevent, the manufa&ure of
eatherin the United States.
On a careful examination into the state
if this business, your committee are of o
>inion, that the fubjeil is of high national
mportaiice, and worthy the attention of
Jongrefs; but as the demand for bark is a
ircumftance of very considerable impor
ance to the landed interest of the U. States,
is well as that of the manutafturers of lea
her, and your treasury (from the proper
eports oftheyear, not haviitg yet in)
s unable to furnifh proper and fufficient
locumcnts herein, so as to enable your
ommittee to form a decisive judgment on
■he whole fubjeft ; viewed in all its cou
equences, they are of opinion, that the
übjefi. matter of the petitions referred to
item, should lay over to the next lellionof
-ongrefs; and in the mean time, your
•'"nmittee beg leave to recommend the
ollowing resolution, as the only present
neafure, necellary to be adopted.
Resolved, That from and after the day
'f next, the following additional
luties shall be laid :
On all (addles and leather tanned or taw
d, two and a half per centum ad valorem,
except such as is, orfhall,be otherwise ra
ed.
On every pair of boots, ten cents.
)n every pair offhoes, flippers,or golofhoesj
nade of silk, fluff, or leather, five cents.
Reported the 23d of February.
PRICE or STOCKS.
Si* per cents, per £. - . xo [.
Three ditto "1 . , 1/6 r. ,-2/.
Deferred is ditto, . 12 yl , 2 j6
I inal settlements, &c. -
indents - - - 11/3
Halffharcs Bank Stock 25 per ccnt advance*
Mackintolh's Defence.
This day !s publifted, by William Young, Book
l.'iler, Nd. 52, Second-llreet, the corner of
Chel'nut-ftreet, price 2-3ds of a dollar in boards,
A DEFENCE
OF THE
French Revolution.
ENGLISH ADMIRERS, against the ac
ulations of she Right Honorable Etimund Burke j
"eluding some ftridfurea on the late prudu&ion of
Vlonf. Du Calonne—
B; JAMES MACKINTOSH.
N. B.—Ditto with the French Conliitution, ?'
iccepted by the King, 13t.11 Sepiember 1701
>rice in boards 3-4ths dollar.
April J 3.The following letters between the Prefi<ieni
of the United States, afid Major-General St.
Clair, on the fubje3 of the latter resigning hi:
command of the army.
Philadelphia, March 26, 1792.
Sir,
I BEG leave to offer you my unfeigned thanlci
for the honor conferred upon me, by the ap
poinfment to the command of the army of th<
United States the last campaign. Though tha
campaign was unfortunate, i am not confciou
that any thing within my power, to have produ
ced a more happy iU'ue, was negle&ed. As I wa:
prompted to accept that command by no motive:
of either ambition or interest, but by a ferven
wifli to be offervice to my country, and a belief
perhaps too fondly entertained, that I could be f<
— 1 hat I am led to decline it in future, proceed!
neither from disgust nor disappointment.
Having been much afflitted with sickness dur
ing nearly the whole of the campaign, though ]
flatter myfelf the public interests did not futfe,
by it, and though my health is now tolerably re«
stored, my constitution has received a very seven
/hock, and I might not again be able to go thro
the weight of business which necefi'arily follows thi
command ol an army.
Altho , fir, I am myfelf peifuaded that ever]
thing was done, in the coui fe of the la ft campaign,
that could be done on my part, fully to anfwei
the public expectation, yet it is denied by some
doubted by many, and known to but few out o
the army. A wish to reGi'fy the public opinion
and a duty that J conceive J owe to myfelf, induce
me to request that an inquiry into my conduf
may be instituted ; when that is over, j may hopi
to be permitted to resign the cummifiion of Ma
j or-General, which 1 now hold. Should the re
iult of the inqu.ry be that, in any instance, tin
o'uties of my itacion were negletted, or that I die
not improve every hour and every opportunity f<
the beil advantage, or that the operations of thi
army, after it was in a condition to operate, wen
delayed one moment in consequence of my illness
1 shall patiently submit to the merited censure.
1 o whoever may be appointed my successor,
fliall be happy, fir, to give every light and infor
mation my lituation, as General of the army, o
as Governor of the Weftem Territory, put in m :
power to obtain, and to evince to you, fir, and i<
the woild, that the confidence you were pleased t<
iepofe in me, was not misplaced.
V/ith every sentiment of gratitude, of refpe#
and, allow me to add, as alfe&ion, 1 have ch<
honor to be, Sir,
Your molt obedient fervanf,
ARTHUR St. CLAIR.
The President of the United States.
United States, March 28th, 1792.
Sir,
YOUR knowledge of the country North-wel
ps the Ohio, and of the resources for an army if
its vicinity, added to a full confidence in your mi
litary character, founded on mature experience
induced my nomination of you to the command 0
the troops on the frontiers.
our liefire of replying any errors of the pub
lie opinion, relatively to your conduit, by an in
veltigation of a court of enquiry, is highly lauda
ble, and would be readily complied with were th,
rneafure practicable But a total deficiency o
officers, in a&ual service, of competent rank t,
form a legal court, for that purpose, precludes th,
power- of gratifying your wiflies on the occasion.
J he intimation of your readiness to afford you
fucceflor all the information of which you are ca
pable, altho' unnecefl'ary for my personal convic
tion, mull be regarded as an additional evidence o
the goodness of your heart, and of your attach
ment to your country.
I am, Sir,
With esteem and regard,
Your mod obedient servant,
G. WASHINGTON
Major-Gencral Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, March 3 \Ji, 1732.
Sir,
I HAVE had the honor to receive your lette
cf the *Sth inflant. While I lament that cir
cumftances prevent an investigation into my con
dudt, by a court of enquiry, I cannot but acqui
efce in the reasons you have afligned why it can
not take place j and I beg leave to present nv
thartks for the define to have gratified me, had i'
bren practicable, which you have been pleased t(
Hianifeft.
In my letter of the 26th, I expretfed an inten
t.oo of retiring from the army, when the enquin
ftould be over The only reason 1 had for wilh'
ing to retain my commilfion until that time was
that if any mifcondufl (hould appear in the courf
of the enqmry, I might be amenable to a cour
martial, which a resignation would have preclu
ded. The Houfeof Representatives, fir, have di
■ eaed an enquiry into the causes of the failure o
.he lafl campaign to be made by a committee o
their own body the fame reason that influence,
me when a court of enquiry was contemplated
operates now with equal force, and therefore i
may be proper that I Ihould flill retain m c ' om
million; but, as it will soon be requisite tha
iome person Ihould be at the head of the ar mv
who is to continue to command it, it is necelTary
fir, that I Ihould inform you explicitly, which
now do, of my fixed resolution to resign the mo
ment the enquiry is finilhed, fiiould r,o fault b,
found, that any embairafTment which may exist
with refpedt to pioviding a successor for me, ma,
be removed.
Be plealed, fir, to observe that my sole obieft i
to give eftedt to public justice, in ihe usual wa,
by a court-martial, ihould it appear that, an-
what/oner, the misfortunes of the lat
campaign can be attributed to me ; and it is th<
proper, and I believe the only tribunal, where mi
litary crimes and mifconduft can be enquired in
o and p-jiiilhed ; or where an officer's reputation
infinitely dearer than life, can be vindicated —
Should the public service, however, require thai
another officer of the fame rank with me be aP
pointed immediately, I am ready to,make the re
signation forthwith, notwithstanding that it may
leem to proceed, and at a distance will be suppo
sed to have arisen, from a sense that the volume
of calumny and defamation, invented by malioe*
which is daily pouring from the press into the
public ear, has coo much foundation for me to
meet it, —that I fhrinlt from the conferences,
and chufe to flielter myfelf in a private station : —
I am ready, fir, upon this occasion, as I have
bren upon all others, to facrifice every private and
personal feeling and consideration to the public
good.
I have the honor to be, fir,
Your most obedient servant,
ARTHUR St. CLAIR.
The President of the United States.
United States, April 4, 1792.
Sir,
I HAVE read and duly considered your letter
of the 31ft ultimo.
The reasons you offer for retaining yourcom
miflion, until an opportunity should be presented,
if neceflary, of investigating your condudt in every
mode prescribed by law, would be conclusive with
me, under any other circumstances than the pre
sent.
But the eftabli/hment of the troops allows only
of one Major-General. You have manifefted
your intention of retiring, and the efientral inter
ests of the public require that your fuccefl'or ihould
be immediately appointed, in order to repair to
the frontiers.
As the Koufe of Representatives have been
piealed to institute an enquiry into the cauftfs of
the failure of rhe late expedition, 1 should hope an
opportunity would thereby be afforded you of ex
plaining )our condud, in a manner fatibfa&ory to
the public and yourfelf.
1 am, fir,
With esteem and regard,
Your most obedient servant,
G. WASHINGTON.
Major-General Arthor St. Clair.
Sir Philadelphia, April 7, 1752.
J HAVE the honor to receive vour letter
of the 4th instant.
Although I ws very desirous, fir, to hold the
commillion of major-general until the enquiry by
the committee of the House of Reprefentativ*
Ihould be over, /or the reasons I afligned, and
which you are pleased to think have some weight,
—yet the necelhty of the officer being ai,pointed
who is to command the troops, in order 10 his re
pairing to the frontiers, is certainly pre/ling, and
ought to silence with me every wi/h of a mere per
sonal nature : I do, therefore, fir, now formally
rehgn the appointment of major-general.
1 have never, fir, entertained a doubt that an
enquiry into the caufrs of the failure of the late
expedition, whether directed particularly to my
conduit, or to that connected with other cause =
that may have operated in whatever way it might
be conducted, would not prove honorable to me,
and fatis/aftory to the public, as far as ] was con
cerned with it ; but setting, as I do, a due value
upon the public opinion, and desirous not to lose
that place in the esteem of the virtuous and intel
ligent ot my fellow-citizens which 1 have long
held, you will not wonder that, under exi/ting cir
cumirances, a degree of anxiety, not only that
there Ihould be an enquiry, but that every thine
capable of being misconstrued, ftould be avoided
on my part. 1 will own to you, fir, that the de
hre of honejl fame has ever been the ftrongelt pac
tion in my brealt ; 1 have thought that 1 had me
rited it,—-and it is all that 1 have to compeAfate
tor the facrifice of a very independent situation,
and the bed years of my life devoted to the public
service, and the faithful application of my talents,
luch as they were, in every situation in which 1
have been placed, with a zeal bordering upon en
thufiajm. I trull, fir, 1 /hall ttill enjoy it, while
thole who hive attempted to disturb it, will be
forgotten, or remembeied with indignation,— and
in their bofonjs, if they have feeling, sensations
may a rife something similar to what Milton has
delcri bed to have seized upon Satan when he dif
cov6red our firft parents in Paradise.
With every sentiment of refpecft and duty,
1 have the honor to be, fir,
Your most obedient servant,
T , „. , , , ARTHUR St. CLAIR,
1 he President of the United States.
TO TFIE PUBLIC.
THE scurrilous publication in the FederalGa.
zette of this day, addrelfed to me, under the
fignatureof fohn Morgan, Ensign in the firft U.S.
fegiment, merits no attention, and will meet with
none from me : but 1 think proper to declare
that the papers signed a Speflator, were not writ
ten by me—that I do not know the author nor
ever saw or heard of them until I met with them
in the Federal Gazette.
ARTHUR St. CLAIR.
Philadelphia, April 9, 1792.
J?flN away on Wednesday night lajl, a Negro
Matt, about fwenty-three years old, had on a
light-coloured port coat : took with him a fair of
leather breeches and a fair of green fluff do. a bea
ver hat half •worn, narrow brim and deep crown •
a fair of boots ; Jlriped cotton and ftlk Jtockings—
he isjlim made—reads and writes a legible hand
has, lam informed, procured a fafs and a certifi
cate of his being ast ecman. It is probable he will
endeavor to get on board some vejjet, either at this
place or New-York. He has ajmall fore under his
chin, occasioned by cutting out a wen. / will give
lev Dollars reward for Jecuring him, if in this city :
f-wentj Dollars if taken in New-York, or any
other place of thejame distance, and fay ail rea-
Jonable cxpences.
ANDREW MOORE, Spruce-flreet, No. 112,
Philadelphia, March 9, 1792.
%* A few Copies of the Report of the
Secretary of the Treasury on the Ail for
laying Duties on Spirits, (3c. for sale cH
this Office.
This day is publijhed Price 6/0.
By MATHEW CAREY.
iVo. 118, Market-Jlreety near fourth ftreety
The Ladies' Library ±
Containing
l« JVlifs More's E flays
2. Gregory's Legacy
3. Lady Pennington's advice
4* March:onefs of Lambert's advice
5. Swift's Letter to a new marriea Lady
6. Miss Chapone on Command of temper
7. More's Fables for the Ladies.
Said CARET has lately publijhed
1. M' Fingal, an epic poem, 2/9 1-2
2. EJair's Sermons, complete in two vols
3. Neckar's treatifeon Religious Opinions, 6f.
4. Examination of Sheffield's Observations, 4/8
5. American Constitutions,
6. Douway Bible— neat, 6 doi., elegant 50/2
7. Vade Mecum, 1/10 1-2
8. Charles Grandilon abridged, 1/3
9. Humphrey's poems, bound 2/6, in blue pa
ber 1/10 1-2
10. American Jest Book, in 2 parts, bound, 4/6
11. Select Poems, j/3
12. Think Well On't, i/jo i- 2
13* Beauties of Poetrv, British and American, 6j
14. Beattic s elements of moral science, $fj 1-2
15. 1 he Christian Economy, if 10 i r z,
*** Sets of the American Museum.
AS fevera! gentlemen in different parts of tht
United Stares, have been beret'fjre disappointed
n their applications for complete Jets of the Ame
ncan Museum, the printer informs the public, thai
he is engaged in reprinting the deficient numbers oj
the work, and has now and will henceforward
have a confant flip ply op Jets on hand j ju. h gtn
tlrmen, therefore, as pleaj'e, may be furm/bed with
sets neatly bound, in ten volumes, at ftxteen dollars.
This -work -will be found to contain at lea/1 a:
great a variety of political, agricultural, and mij
cellanecus ess 'ays as any ever publijbed in America.
Offaid Carey may be had, wbolefale and retail
Bibles, Testaments, Spelling-Books, Primers, Quills
Ink-Powder, IVriting-Paper of various kinds
Bonne'-Paper, Pocket-Books, Ink-Stands, Meffag,
and playing cards, &c &c. btlaw
Sales at Audlion,
By M'FARRAN & DUNLAP,
At the Merchants' CofFee-houfe, in New-York,or
Wednesday the 25th of April next, at 12 o'clock
j-"HAT valuable and well known Grift Mill an'
Farm, late the property of Abraham De Peyfler
leceajed ; near Fish-kill landing, in Duichefs coum
y,Jeventy miles from this city, upon the Hud/on 0,
North river, The mill-bouje is 32 by So feet, ha
"ie pair treneb burr, and one pair Efopus ft,nes
lew and of an approved quality ; a reeling fereen
annmg mill, and a complete fee of four bolts, turn,
ng y water, all of which are r.cw and in petftfi
rder ; as also every other part of~tbe work, bavine
ately undergone a thorough repair. The stream, 0
lever failing one, capable of turning in addition ti
the prcfent,a fuilery andfaw mill, for which thi
ituanon affords proper conveniences, and very ad
vantageous, the waters of the Hudfo'n flowing up n
the mill-tad, at which a vessel d,awing 6 feet wa
ter, may load and unload, and in the belt wheat
country in theftate. The dwelling is larre, commo
dious, and well finifhed, built of brick and flone, V
by so feet, pleafamlyfttuated within Jixty yards 0)
the mill, 101 th a handsome garden in front, and at,
excellent spring of water, and a new well bf.il,
Dutch barn-, also a small house at a convenient dis
tance from the mill, calculated to accommodate a
tradesman The farm consists of 274 acres, inclu
dingthe null stream, about 140 acres of which is an
excellent grove of growing timber, lying in a body
•lot more tban half a mite from the mill, and a gooa
pot of mowing ground, all prof erly fenced-, a small,
)ut good orchard) producing abundance of thehef
ipplei, with a number of other fruit trees, dijperfea
near the house.
This is truly a Valuable and advantageouflf fitu
sted property, which renders it an ebjea worth-) tbi
■mention of a man of business, when it may be ex
ended to any length. Vne half of the furchafe me.
ley will be required on delivery of tbe deeds, (when
•>ofJeffion will be given) the other half in one year,
with inter eft, secured by a mortgage on the premise.
/in indisputable title will be given—for futth'r
Particulars enquire of M-ffeurs M'Farran am,
Doinlap, Peter A. Schenck, New-York jor of Ifaa,
De Peyfler, feller, on the premises.
New-York, March 31. ' j.a.w.
Wajhington, in the Territory of Columbia.
A PREMIUM
too dollars, or a medal of that value,
W at the option of the party, will be giv
?n by tlie Commiifioners of the Federal
buildings to the person who, before the
itteenth day of July next, shall produce to
hem the mod approved plan, if adopted by
hem. for a Prelident's house to be er e a e d
.n this city. The site of the building, if
the artist will attend to it. will of course
TJ Vt? C A af ? Ca and outline of his plan,
and its definition will point out to him
the number, hze, and distribution of the
apartments. It will be a recommendation
of any plan, ,f the central part of it may be
Jetached and erected for the present, with
the appearance of a complete whole, and
be capable of admitting the additional parts,
in future, if they shall be wanting. Draw
ings will be expeaed of the ground plats
elevations of each front, and feaion
mav he n *£ ildin £ in fllch direaions as
may be necessary to explain the internal
, ' u !" e • a " d a;l estimate of the cubic feet
of brickwork, Coaipofiiig the whole mass of
the walls. T he Commutiokbks.
Maith ?4, 1792,
Wa/hington, in tie Territory nfColvir.Ha.
A PREMIUM
OF a lot in tlii's City to be designated by
impartial judges and icodollars; or a
medal of that value, at the option of the
party, will be given by the Commissioners
of the Federal Buildings, to the person,
who, before the fifteenth day of Juiy 1792,
fliall produce to them the molt approved
plan, if adopted by them, for a Capitol to
be erected in this city, and 250 dollars, or
a medal for the plan deemed next in merit
to the one they lhall adopt. The building
to be of brick, and to contain the following
apartments, to wit.
A conference room 7 Sufficient to ~
A room for the lie- i accommodate
prefentatives f 3 CO perfpns
J each.
A lobby or antichamber to the latter, r
A Senate room of 1200 square feet
area.
An antichamber or lobby to the last.
12 rooms of 600 square feet area, eacii, 'for
committee rooms and clerks offices, to be
of half the elevation of the former. Draw
ings will of the ground plats
elevations of each front, and factions
through the building in such directions a;
may be neceilary to explain the internal
(tructure, and an estimate of the cubic feet
of brickwork composing the whole mass of
he walls. The Commissioners.
March 14, 1792
R TWENTY DOLLARS REWARD.
AN away in August 1790 from the fub
fenber, living in Queen Ann's coun
ty, eastern shore of Maryland, a country
born Negro woman, called GRACE. She
is about middle aged, very low of stature
round face, remarkable small feet, for a
negro, and has loft several of her fore-teeth.
The lapse of time since Ihe has abfcondect
renders it unnecessary to describe her
cloathmg. She is artful and talkative, and
I make no doubt has passed for a free wo
man, and got into Pennsylvania or Dela
ware states. The above reward lliaU be
paid to any person securing said negro, and
giving information thereof to her mailer
and reasonable charges if brought home. '
EDWARD HARRIS.
Feb. 23. Bvv law.
LOTS AND LANDS FOR SALE.
THE Subscriber wishes to fell fur,dry Lots and
Houses in the town of Alexandria, in good
Situations for business ; some of them are unimpro
ved. Alft several trails of Land in the counties
0/ Fairfax and Loudoun ; the Fairfax lands are
from one and a half to four miles from Alexandria
the Loudoun lands 45 to 50 miles, A credit will
br given for a conJi,/erable part of thr value ,f re.
qtiired by (he purchaser ; and as no person will buy
■without-viewing the property, a description is un
necejjary. I wilUlf. fell several tracts of land
on the weflern waters, in the inhabited part of the
e £"" r y> containing from 300 to 2000 acres cacb.
Those lands -will be fold low, either on ton? credit
or for money, as may bejl fun the furchafer. /
baveafo a trail of 500 acres of low lar.d in Acco
mack county, on the Eajlern Shore of V.r. ~:ia ■
about ,0 acres of which are cleared, on the waters
of MaJJango River, navigable for boats through tht,
land. The land is of an excellent quality, ar.d hea
vily timbered, with White-Oak and Pine, ar.d lies
within 4 miles of a landing that a veflel of a to 10
feet water can load at. Mr. Walter Bayne, who
lives near the land, willfhew it to any who may
incline to purcbaje,
„ , 70SlAH WATSON.
A.exatidria, Feb. 20 1792.
6t. law,
WHEREAS a certain GEORGE STILL,
who formerly went by the name of Geor»e
Howard, late of Speedwell iron works, in Wfl-
JerJey, abfeonded on the tth of April, 1792, and
took with bim the wife and child of the fuhf ribcr ;
the child being about sixteen months old, and a fe
male. Said George Still is a man of light comtlex.
ion, with far.dy hair, black eyes, marked with the
I mall-pox, ab.utjUfeet two inches high, and hare
in his make. Had on when he went away, a' hot
'le-grecn coat, ribbed velvet breeches, a [potted
waif-coat, mixt coloured brownish I,locking's, [hoes
ratoer old, with square plated buckles, He may be
/even or eight and thirty years of age.—The woman,
Mary Hunfinger, wife to the fubferiber, is of a
fair with light blue eye:, brown hair,
and middling fixe : had on when she went away a
dark Jpotted caUico short-gown, with a finped
homejpun petticoat, and check apron, with half
worn fhoes,and a pair of old fquareft/ver buckles-,
the a/Jo took with her a new hotr.efpun broadcloth
ctcak, lead coloured, bound with b.ueftlk binding,
the hood lined with pale blue silk, and an old fa-
Pnoned hat. The child had or. a callico frock, and
a green bonnet. The woman took more clothes with
her, and fifthly might change her suit : the aUo
took with her fix large flvtt tea-spoons, varied
I. Jj M Weoevcr takes up said George St: '
with tee woman and child, Jhall have Six Pour.,,
r ft"ard, with every reasonable charge, said !„ ri,
lupferiber ; «• Three Pounds for the man only ] and
l f° r a "d child. 1d»
hereby forewarn all ferfons net to trust said Mary
Hunfinger on my account, as I will pay no deb ■ c;
bir contra&ing. '
PETER IWN.SINGER.
Lo*er Freehold, Monmouth County,
East New-Jerjey, April 5, ,75,2. lato. 3 (.
-» .
PRINTED Br
CHILDS and S WAINE
at T»i: e »rn C E, NO . 239, R ,c R . i T» I "' T
2S" Z A.R "SIXTH-STREET,
'^UADEIPHU.
0T
2.3
ft O
g 3
So
r- cr
ct>