Vol. I.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
ON THE IN JUS TIC E
Of THE
EXCISE LAW
AND THE
SECRETARY'S REPORT.
r T"'HAT the Excise Law has a tenden
X dency to contravene the princi
ples of liberty, to deprave the morals o
the citizens who live by farming ; anc
that it injures industry and interfere:
with the business of distilling, I pre
fume the scope of this investigation ha:
abundantly proved. That it will ra
quire a veftiture of powers, and an ex
ertion of force, arbitrary reftrittions
and excessive penalties, to give effe& tc
the operation of the law, experience
has already evinced to the candid anc
disinterested, and mud be impreflec
even on the mind of the inflexible Fi
nancier, and the whole tribe of his de
pendants, by the future progress of the
system.
To proVe that the excise is unjust.
impolitic, and contrary to the design ol
the constitution, is the object which 1
shall now attempt ; and, I am persuad
ed, that to demonstrate how inequitable
and partially oppressive it is, I shall on
ly have the trouble of applying the fadli
which I have already stated.
The produce of the foil in all the old
settlements, and especially in the east
ern states, (except in fomeplaces a small
quantity of brandy) is free from excif
esi; and this immunity extends to all
the manufactures of the foil. Rum
made from molafles that is imported
"from the Welt" 111 dies, an excise
of ten cents per gallon, on the lowefl
proof, and fells, by wholesale, in this
city, where much of it is stilled, at the
calh price of 5s per gallon ; the demand
for it is so extensive, and the consump
tion so great, that the manufacturer is
able to incorporate the payment of the
excise with the charge, upon the consu
mer, notwithstanding theprefent adven
titious scarcity and high price of molas
ses in the islands. Whisky, however,
is wholly extratted from grain, which
is both railed and diltilled by the farm
er ; it is prepared in situations remote
from the market, and it makes a part ol
the tubfiftence, not only as a substitute
for other ardent spirits, but also for cy
der and beer, for these rarely exist where
whisky is mod generally manufactured.
I have already {fated that it is also used
as an article of barter, as a kind of cir
culating medium or substitute for mo
ney, for where it abounds, money i:
exceedingly scarce, though even there
rum will procure it.—But I shall for
bear to recapitulate, and will refer the
reader to the statements I have already
made on this subject. I will here ad
mit the calh price of whisky to be 3s.
or 40 cents, at the place of diftillatior
(tho' I cannot lupport the
anexcife, at eight centspergallon, woulc
be rating the whisky at one-fifth of it:
price. Without claiming therefore
though I justly might, a preference ir
favour of whisky, as it is drawn from the
produce of the foil, and as not beinj
generally a cash article ; but putting the
two kinds of fjjirit on terms of per :
feet equality, when the whisky pays the
proposed tax of 8 cents, the rum oughl
to pay about 13, ellimating the rum al
the present calh price in Philadelphia,
•viz ss. or 66 2-3 cents, so that there is
3 bounty of three cents per gallon in fa
vour of rum: is not this going far tc
give it a monopoly in the market ? Bui
I will state the companion still more
favorably for the rum, and admit that it
fells at 4/6 or 60 cents, and the differ
ence in its favor will be one-sixth of the
excise, which is more than one and one-
Jialf cents of a bounty ; but admitting,
what I am lure is not true, that the com
mon felling price of whisky is raised to
56 cents, and tiding the rum at 5/3, or
By P. FRENEAU: Published Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
THURSDAY, May 10, 1792.
■jo ccnts, which was the actual whole
sale price since the petitions for a revi
fion of the excise law were laid befon
Congress, and the rate of excise is equal,
viz. one-lev'enth on each.
How deeply engaged to serve a parti
cular interest mull the secretary hav
been, and how hard pulhed to find tin
means of doing it, when he committer
his reputation so far, as to state, for
fact, what he h»d not vouchers to sup
port ; —the most favorable conftruci,
on I can put upon his conduct, is, tha
he has fuffered himfelf to be impoib<
upon by lomc whose interest it was t<
deceive him. Upon a careful enquin-
I have found one house which hat!
purchased some choice whisky brougk
into the city, at gl/9 or 50 cents, an<
that solitary instance is the only one ,
can find ; how could he then in his re
port state, that the common rate, when
it was in grcateft abundance, diftillcc
and excised, was 56 cents, or 4_/i
gallon? Even if he had designed to im
pose on Congress the price of a choic<
quantity hauled into Philadelphia, whicl
is a very falfe rule, yet even that doe?
not appear to be true. Even though ii
has been rendered scarce by so many
farmers ceasing to diftill, and tho' sub
ject to the cxcife, it is now fold even in
aid settlements, within seventy or eigh
ty miles of the market, in small quanti
ties, at 2/9 a gallon.
I will make another comparative
statement nearer the truth than any ol
the former. I will suppose whisky at 2/6
or 33 cents, and it has more frequent
ly been fold below than above that price
when*, it abounds most. and where
excise must be paid ; and I will estimate
rum at 4/10, or almost 65 cents ; on this
estimate it would pay towards the ex
cise two thirteenth parts of the calh
price, and the whilky would pay almost
□ne fourth ; consequently, the owner of
whisky would, on the sale of 100 gal
lons, receive 121. 1 of. and pay to gov
ernment 31. and the owner of rum, on
the sale of 100 gallons, would receive
241. 3/4, and would pay to government
31. Igf or the rum would almost pay
3/9 on the pound, and the whisky near
4/5, consequently there is a bounty still
of near 3 cents to the gallon in favour
of rum, but I will admit it to be but 2-f,
and the amountof preference, in gohhds.
would amount to 137! dollars, and it is
fold in such, or perhaps much larger
quantities at one sale ; but who ever
saw forty or fifty hhds. of whisky fold
at once ; the owner of that despised li
quor must wait long, in most places, and
have good fortune if he gets money at
all. The partiality of this measure in
favor of the distiller of rum, and the op
preflion of the farmer, is too evident to
need a comment : if this is justice, that
cardinal virtue must Have changed its
nature and degenerated into corrup
tion.
I have said, the whisky does not
spread the fail of commerce, and that it
is not in demand in the feats of elegance
and wealth. I would not however be
understood to mean, that there were no
instances of its being carried abroad, or
drank in the capital of America. Pro
bably some of it may have been trans
ported to the Weft Indies as a curiosity;
and I have said, I believe that some
choice samples of it are used here in the
houses of the opulent as a rarity; but
this occurs upon the fame principle that
yams from the Weft Indies are exhib
ited, with other exotic dainties, on the
tables of Philadelphia, not because we
esteem themequal toourown vegetables,
but because they are a novelty.
I have not brought brandies distilled
from fruit into the comparison ; because
they are made in small quantities, and
are rarely, if at all, to be met with ve
ry far from market. Peaches make an
excellent spirit, which can command a
price both from its goounefs and its rar
ity ; but thf fruit must be gathered in
the busy season of the year ; and peact
orchards, from their hasty decay, thei
uncertain bearing, efpccially in lime
Hone lands, and their being much or
the decline throughout the country
would rather call for a bounty to encou
rage the diltillery of spirit from theii
fruit, than juftify the impofttion of at:
oppreflive tax. Although apples ma)
be chiefly made into cyder or prefervet
for food, yet there is a certain propor
tion of them that is fit for no other uff
than making spirit ; but I have alway;
underltcod that the labor and expenct
of preparing it was nearly equal to the
profit.
The injuiliee and oppreflion of th(
excise are ftili more evident, wher
we take into view the relative fituatior
of those pe: sons who are concerned ir
it. There are more than 100,000 in
habitants of Pennsylvania, nay, I fup
pole that I may fafely alledge that one
fourth of the people contained in the
Rate, which extends to the Alleghany
and Ohio waters, (and in a short time
of peace the proportion will be greater)
who have neither beer nor cyder ; and
consequently to them it is an excise up
on those liquors, upou every restorative
or exhilarating draught, or,ifyoupleafe,
upon every liquid that will intoxicate.
The Secretary (who too frequently pro
claims his ignorance on this fubjeft,
when he would be thought to express
the most accurate information) whilst
dictating to the legillature of the molt
extended and various empire that ever
was governed on the principles of re
presentation, takes his data for internal
taxation from as limite l a scale of in
formation, ob If he was reporting upon
the finances of the little republic of Ge
neva, or the canton of Bern. In the fir ft
age of new settlements, whilst they have
their land to clear and their buildings
to raise, which require the ex
ertions of bodily strength ; (and it is
well known that persons, while enga
ged in those exertions, can consume,
with a salutary effett, much larger quan
tities of spirits, than people otherwif:
employed can do without danger of in
toxication) I fay, while such labor is to
be performed, and not a draught even
of cyder is to be procured to save the
whilky,the secretary's 16 gallon average
is, to luch laborers, a short allowance
indeed. The new settler firft raises his
buildings with the affiftanceof hisneigh
bours, inthecabbinform, with clapboard
roofs : and, as he is able, proceeds to
clear his land ; in doing which he dea
dens or girdles the large timber ; so that
in the western country, where timber
greatly abounds, and is exceedingly lof
ty, what is called a new field, is in fafl
a towering foreftof dead trees, the very
roots of which take up a great portion of
the foil. After the firft period of a
few years, in which only the smaller
limbs of the trees fall, the settlers have
annually to procure the afTiftance of
their neighbors, to roil the logs in heaps
for burning: and thus 1 have fcen a
field, containing perhaps little more
than 10 acres, for the cutting, rolling
and burning the logs with which it was
covered, the Secretary's 16 gallons
would certainly be no unreafonabie re
frefhment. There are yet but few
shingle roofed buildings within 100
miles of the extreme fettled parts of
Pennsylvania. I once attended the rai
sing of a barn and I found that 2 men
were employed on each corner, until it
became so high, that ropes were neces
sary, when three men were required.
This process, therefore, demands from
16 to 24 on the corners : and to felcft
the timber, diredt the business, carry
and push up the logs, a number of work
men from 30 to 40 will be pretty labo
riously employed. The raising of a
double barn or a good house will occu
py two days. I cannot then suppose,
that during such exertions, andexpofed
to the fcorehing fun, the allowance of
Numb. 56.
a pint of common day, to
each man, can be deemed extravagant
and, consequently, I conclude that the
Secretary need be under no apprehen
tonsofdrunkennefs. eventho' the family
hould consume more than his 16 gallons
it a raiiingwhich continues two days ;
ind certainly some rcfrernment was ne
.effary and proper at the time of felling,
lewing, and hauling the timber. The
number of hands at a raifmg may vary
according to the size of the timber. A
larmer, with whom I once lodged, in
formed me that he had jud corne from
the thirty firft rolling at which he had
affided that spring, and I think that the
Secretary himfelf might very civilly and
fafely have drank one fourth of the six
teen gallons average, during so conficler
ible a period, at so fatiguing a service.
[ have not brought reaping and mow
ing into the account, because the far-
Tiers in the old settlements likewise
:onfume fpiritson those occasions, but
with a greater abatement if they have
:yder.
I repeat, that I (hould be ashamed of
detailing this fubjeft so minutely, were
t not rendered necedary by the igr.o->
ance of circuindances, and mifreprefen
ation of fa£b, that are applied by others
o their shame and compunction, to sup—
sort injudice. But it mud not here be
orgotten, that the people rcfiding 011
he western waters, have no other pofii
)le method of reducing their grain to a
jortable form, by which they can be
mabled to bring it to market, of to im
prove it as an article of barter, fupply
ng the place of money in paying for
or labour. The fair and candi d
:iy}clvifion therefore, is, that the exif
:ing excltc taw" has, Irin. >- - 5-—
proportion of the citizens, the faitie C>~
peration, as if a rate of excise, equal to
sne fourth or one fifth, of the value,
ivere laid upon beer orcyder, consumed
iy the farmer, or upon the flour, tobac
;o, rice, indigo, pot-ath, horses, lum
ber, onions, &c. exported.
If thefefafts be true, and the infer
ence which I have drawn be just, there
lever was, in any country, under any form
jf government, a more partial, opprel
five, and unjust inftrur.ient of revenue.
The constitution of the UnitedStatej,
with a delign to afford security againlt
partial combinations and undue influ
ence in the legiilature, has declared
that direct taxes fliall be levied, equal
ly, throughout the territory of the union:
but by the construction given to tb.it
claule, in support of the excise law, it
has been rendered (instead of a reduc
tion calculated to maintain the equal
rights of the members of the confedera
tion, and to restrain the hand of pow
er by the honorable limitation of equi
ty and impartiality) an instrument of
opprefiion and injustice ; at the fame
moment blading the fair prospect of
that freedom, which the triumphs of a
ten years war pictured to our hopes ;
demming the wholesome current of do
medic indudry, and prostrating. forthe
purposes of an inlidions and fordid poli
cy, the genuine and only permanent
props of a republican government, pub
lic confidence, and private virtue. Re
garded in the light in which I have
fairly placed it, the fame principles will
apply as properly to raise an cxcife of
one fourth or one fifth upon the indigo
or tobacco of the southern dates, and
upon the potash, the horses, the onions,
or the manufactures of New-England:
(hould the middle dates, or either the
eadern or southern dates, combine with
an influential minider, who has a facil
ity of making datements suited to such
dcfigns, the one part, may, in this way,
go free of direct taxes, whild the other
parts of the union are oppressed.
It is as easy to change the nature of
things, or to change truth itfelf into
error, as to dedroy the force of this con
cluiion, if luch principles are admitted
to govern the legislature.To f.iy that the v.-eflern people contri
tmte through "no other channel to the sup
port of go vernment, is a wmto 1 afoerfion,
or a gross mifconcepcion. In the .western
pert of alone there i? proba
bly, from fifty thoufanct to iixty thousand
buljlets offalt confuted, from v.Mirh a more
extravagant impo't is levied than from ar
ritles of the highefl Insury—md those who
by such affiertions, in
ferring likewise that our western citizens
-■iy nothing upon the consumption of Kuro
pc-an, Fa-tor Weft-India goods, ought, for
the fake of candor and truth, to co.iect in
formation from the merchant-j of Philadel
phia, Baltimore, ?ic. whose accounts would
at once corre t the nrita'ce, remove the
prejudice, and confound th» malice of the
si-g-iment.-. dra .vn from this source in favor
or'the excise.
But it is to be lamented, that few will
arch for a truth wii ch the* dread or dis
like tod.fcove ", nor while measures are
pursued, «.vh'ch dare not be avowed, can we
be furprifpd to trace all tl.e machinations ot
n.i inventive genius, directed to amuse and
perplex not to inform and convince. Some
politician - li ve said, " if the people will be
r ccivkl let them be so " But to the ci
tizen--' o- America, the desire of knowledge
i hub coal, and such men never will, not
can be deceived.
SYDNEY.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OP REPRESENTATIVES.
rniDAY, May -
A bill (from tin- -iena e) to continue 11
force a i aA to provide for mitigating 01
remitting he fore.titres and penal:ies ac
cruing under the revenue 1 ws in cert.i .
cafe , and to make further provision for
fh; payment of pcnio.i; so invalid , —wa
lead three times fuccefiively, and paffec
with an amendment.
The Senate agreed to the said amend
rnent.
A bill for the relief of the river and
h ";.ei ies. wa . reported by a l'eleft committee
and read a firlt time.
Mr. S. Bourne, from the committee o!
enrolment, presented to Mr. Speaker, vlr
Spell er signed, and the committee present
ed to the Prelldent, for his approbation
three enrolled bills, viz.
A bill for the relief of perforis imprifotlec
for c bt :
A bill authorizing the grant and convey
since of certain lanil~ to J. C. Symmes, ant
iiii ailociates ; —and
l-'ll tn t>m«> for t.\e an
Ximr* 1 meeting of Congress.
The House proceeding to the confidera
tio.i of the report of a felett committee, oi
a meflage from the President and a lettei
fronj the Secretary of State, on the accoun
of J- B Cutting,
The galleries were ordered to be cleared
A committee was appointed to bring in :
bill to al:ow J. B. Cutting a certain furr
for expenditures and Cervices to the Unitec
btates.
After the opening of the do"or% the com
jn.tt.v reported a bill to that effect, whicl
was twice read, and referred to a commit
tee of the whole House to-morrow.
A bill for fettiing the demands of A. W
White against the b'nfttd States, was con
fideied in committee of the whole, reportec
without amendment, and ordered to be en
grofitd for a third reading.
The following resolution was agreed to
and sent to the Senate for their concurrence
viz —
" Kefo'ved. That the resolution of the
24th ulr. authorizing the President of the
Senate a,.d tile Spea.-.er of the House o1
Repreentatives to elo e the present feition.
by adjourning the r respective Honle- on the
s'ii of May. be repea.ed ; and that, inlteac
thereof they be authorized to ad.ourn theii
refpeit.ve Houlps on Thursday the loth, tc
meet aga n on such day as {hall by law be
appointed.
Tile Senate returned the resolution with
an amendment, fixing Tuesday the eight,
for the day or adjour ment.
The House concurred in this amendment
The committee o the whole was dif
charged from the further conlideration o)
the bniinefs of the couuniffioners of loan:
in Ncw-Hampfhire'and Rhode-Iflaiid ; ant;
A feledt committee was appointed tc
bring in a bill or bills to provide for the
payment of the hire of clerks, and for sta
tionary, in th: offices of the several com
roillioners of loans.
A motion,, made by Mr. Seney, for the
appointment of a committee to bring in a
bill to compeufate Dr. R. H- Coates, was
ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Secretary Otis notified the House,
that the Senate had passed (with amend
ments; two b lis, viz. a bill concerning the
<lutie> on spirit diltiJled with li the United
States; and a bill relative to the compenfa
tioas of certain oihcers employed in the
collection of the duties of iinpolt and ton
nage.
The bill fupp'ementary to the act making
provilion for the public debt, was again
confideied by a committee of die whole,
rod reported w'.th arr.-?:jd.aents ' which be
ing taken isto conlideration by the House,
were, with some raodifici'tiofr, agreed to ;
in coiifequeuce of which, the fixtii and fe
ventll sections {land 3; follows :
Sec. 6 BeitfurthertnaSied, That the inter
est o:i so much of the debt of the United
>tates, as has been, or (hi 1 i be purehafed or
redeemed for or'by -the United State l , or
a, halt be paid into the ereafitry thereof,
in fati faction of any debt, or demand, an.,
che surplus of any film orfum- appropriated
for the payment of the interett upon the
"aid debt, which (hall, remain, after paying
"nth interett, lliali be a id hereby are ap
propriated and pledged, firmly ar.d inviola
bly, for and to the purchase and redemption
of the said debt ; to be applied under the
direction of or any or
them, withthe approbation of the President
■jf the United State-:, for the time beinj
and m manner following, that is to fay,
First, -'To the purchase of the several
"pecies of {tock contlituting the rli-bt of the
United State-:, at their refpeilive market
prices, noc exceeding tlie par or true value
thereof, and ai nearly as maybe, in equal
proportions, until the annual amount of the
said fund", together with any ot'ier provi
sions which may be made by law, ihall be
equal to two per cc.lt. of the whole amount
of the outflanding funded ltock, bearing a
present intereil of fix per cent."
" Thenceforth, feconah, To the reduction of
the said ta.lt mentioned stock, according to
he right for that purpose referred to the
'Jnited State* ; until the whole amount
.hereof (halt have been redeemed ; and,
" laHy After filch redemption, to the
purchase, at it - market price, of any other
ltock, confiding of the debt of the United
States which may then remain unredeem
ed."
And uich purchases, a: far as the f md;
hall a: any time exte id, ihall be made with
in thirty day - next after each day on which
the quarte ly interest on the debt of the
United S ues'ftiall become due: and (hall
t>e made by a known agent, to-be named by
he said commissioners."
" Sec. 7. Avibe it further enaFted, That all
future purchases of public deb:, on account
of the United States, fliall be m3de at the
overt price, at which the fame Can be ob
.ained by open purchase, or by receiving
ealed proposals. to be opened in the pre
enccofthe commiflioners, or per,on, au
thorized by them to make purchases, and
theperfons making luch proposals."
Tne queit 011, on the engroilinent of the
bill, wa called for : but
Mr. B. Bourne aga;,i ileclarlng fiis inten
tion of bringing forward his motion tor a
further afl'umption of theftate debts.
The bill was ordered to lie 011 the table.
Saturday, May 5.
The amendments, proposed by the Se
late, to the " bill relative to the compen
ations of certain officers employed in the
:oUettion of the duties of import and ton
lage," were agrsed to, as u ere likewise
heir amendments to the " bill concerning
he duties on spirits diltilled within the
United States."
Mr. Madifon,from the committee of con
ference 011 the lubje£t of the disagreeing a
nendments ot both houses to the process
Bill, reported, that the conferees had a
jreed 111 part.
Mr. Goodhue informed the House. that
:he leiiate had little or no business to do,
md fuggeltcd that it might be expedient to
iillharge the committee of the whole from
lie coniideration of the " b. II for the regif
ering and recording of Ihips or vessels,"
md iend it to the Senate that thef might
>roceed with it.
This being objected to. as an improper
md uncongreflionai mode of proceeding,
ne prdpoial was dropped.
An engrolled bill authorizing a fettle
nent of tlie demand of A. W. White againit
he United States, was read a third time
indpafled ; yeas 30, nays 23.
Sundry petitions were presented and laid
in the table.
A meilage was delivered by Mr. Secreta
ry Lear, informing the House, that the
Preiident ofthe United States had approv
ed and ligned two a£ts, viz.
" An ast authorizing the grant and con
veyance of certain lands to J. C. Symnies,
md his allociates " and
'• An ait to alter the time of the next an
lual meeting of Congress."
Mr. Secretary Otis notified the House,
i hat the Senate had palled a " bill for
regulating foreign coins, and for other pur
pol'es, ' in which they requelted the concur
rence ofthe House :
That they had considered the " bijl au
thorizing a fetileruent of the demand/, of A.
VV. Ythite againit the United-State ," and
resolved thac the further coniideration
thereo be poiiponed until the.ilex/ fefiion
of Congrefsand
That they had refolvedjtliat a committee
should be appointed 011 their pap't to meet
such commute as the Houte might ap
point, te wait on the President of the Uni
ted Slates, and inform him of the intended
recess of Congrefi on Tut (day nextin i
which they requeued the concurrence of
the House.
The bill supplementary to the ast mi
king provilion for the public debt, being ta
ken up,
Mr. B. Bourne, moved for a further at
fuajption of the state debts, to the amount
of lix mil lions, fix hundred and forty four
thoufaßd, live hundred andTorty tioilafs,viz.
j n the debt of Dollars.
Isevv-Hampdiire 150,000
Mafi'ichufef ts 1,838,540
Rliode-Illand 500,000
Connecticut 313,000
New-York 2;,ooo
•New-Jersey . 30 000
Maryland 400,000
Virginia' 225,000
Noi-ili-Carolina 800.000
1,965,000
Georgia 400,000
Total 6,644,540
After a lengthy debate, the subject was
wholly ft t alide by the previous qurjlion,
which palled in the negative; yeas 23,
nays 35.
IZAS — Meffienrs Ames, Barnwell, Ben
foil, S. Bourne, B. Bourne, Fitzlimons,Ger
ry uoodhue, Gordon, Huger, Laurance,
Learned, Murray, W. Smith, Steele, Ster
ret, Sumpter, Sylvefler, Thatcher, Tucker,
\ ming, Wadfworth, Ward.
Nays—Messieurs A(he, Baldwin, Boudi
not, Brown, Clarke, Dayton, f'indiey,
ijiies, Gil man, Gregg, Gritfin, Grove,
Keifter, Hillhoufe, Jacobs, Key, Kitchell,
Lee, Livermore, Macon, Madil'on, Moore,
Muhlenberg, Niles, Page, Parker, Schoon
maker, Sency, J. Smith, I. Smith, Sturges,
Tredwell, Venable, White, Wiilis.
Motions were then severally made by Mr.
B. Bourne, and Mr. Baldwin, for a further
affjmption of the debts of Rhode-Island and
Georgia, not to exceed in eitncr cafe
300,000 dollars—Negatived.
An amendment was added to the bill, ex
cluding the certificates ilfued by Patrick
Travel's, commiliioner of Cumberland
county, in the Itate of North-Carolina, and
thole liiued by the coii rniflioners of army
accounts at Warrington in the fame Itate in
the year 1786, from being received the
coimiin'Jioiiers ol: loans, on account of the
frauds practiced in ilfuing the fame.
1 he bill was then ordered to be engrolT
ed for a third reading ; and
A motion, made by Mr. W. Smith, tkat
the House Ihould'meet 011 Sunday, being ne
gatvtd, the House ad,aurned.
Monday, May 7.
Mr. Speaker lit led ri oH th? rnmmiftcs
ohment prtlented to the Preiulent ot
tha Unit d States, the roliowing enrolled
bills, viz.
'■A bill to continue in force the Ail to
provide tor mitigating or remitting the pe
nalties and forfeitures accruing under Lhe
revenue laws in certain caie;, and 10 make
further provilion for the payment of pen-
to invalids :
A bill relative t > the compenfaticns to
certain o.iicers employed 111 tne collection
of t.ie duties of impost and tonnage ; and
A bill concerning the duties on fp.rits
dillilled within the United S.ates.
Aneugrolied bill supplementary to the
Act making provilion tor the debt of the
United States, was read a third time, pas
!."d, and lent to the senate for concur
rence.
A bill (from the senate) to regulate fo
reign coins &c. was twice read, and order
ed lor commitment.
A bill for making compenfatjcins to the
commiilioiiers of loans, for extraordinary
expenses, was read ahrit and fetond time,
engi oiled, read a third time, and palled.
A committee was appointed, to join the
committee appointed by the senate, to wait
011 the Prelident of the United States, and
notify hiin of the intended recess of Con
gress.
a bill concerning the claim of J. B. Cut
ting against the United States, was conhd
ered in committee of the whole, reported
without amendment, eugrohed, read a third
time, end palled—\ eas, 23 ; Nays, 22.
Yeas—Mellrs. Ames, Barnweii, Ben
fon, Boudinot, B. Bourne, Clarke, Fuzli
lnons, Gordon, Griffin, Heilter, Huger,
Laurance, Learned, Lee, Livermore,
Madifou, Muhleiiberg, Murray, Page, W.
Smith, Steele, Sterret, Tucker— 23
Nays—Mellrs. Alhe,Baldwin, S. Bourne
Brown, Giles, Goodhue, Key, Kitchell,
Macon, Moore, Schoonniaker, J. Smith, I.
Smith, Sturges,Sumpter, Sylveiier/i natch
er, Tredwell, Venable, Ward, White,
Williamlon, —22.
A bill, making alterations in the Treasu
ry and war department, was conlidered in
committee of the whole and reported with
amendments. The amendments were a
greed to by the House, and the bill palled.
The report or the feleft committee 011
the memorials of Mr. Ceracchi refpedtint,
the national monument, being recommit
ted to the fame committee, tney reported
(and theHouleagreed to the report) that
it appears at present inexpedient to go to
the expense pi opof d.
| The report of the conferees, on the a
'mendments to the Process Bill, being taken
into confutation, tile house agreed with
tbefenate iri fame pflrticv lars j but' d'/n
----grred ;h CTvo, oj.e of which* was a cluufa
*uthorityng the creditor to Jiurfue a capias
idfatisfaciaidum, until a tender be made of
debt and colts, in and lilver."—The
house resolved to adhere to tlieir amend
ment for linking out this clauie :—1 eats
30 ; Nays, 17.
Y EAs —MelTrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Brown,
Clarjce, Findley, Giles, Gregg, Griffin,
Grove, Heiller, J cobs, Key, Kitchell,
Lee, Liv'ennore, Macon, Mad,ion, Moore,
Muhlenberg, page, Parker, Seney, I.
Smith, Suuipter, Tredwell, Tucker, Ve
nahle, White, Williaiiil'on, Willis—jo.
Nays— Messrs. Ames, Barnwell, ben
fon, Boudinot, S. Bourne, Fitziimons, Gil
man, Goodhue, Hiilhoufe, Learned, Mur
ray, J. Smith, W. Smith, Steele, Sturges,
Sylvelier, Ward —17.
Mr. Secretary Otis notified the '-souse,
that the Senate had palled the bill for mak
ing conipeufations to the cormmffioners of
ioans for extraordinary expenfcs ; and th:
bill fupplenientary to the A:t making pro
viiion for the debt of uie United States.
The b 11 for regulating foreign coins &c.
was conlidered iii committee 01 the whole,
reported vyithout amendment, amended in
the floul'e, read a third time and palled,
Mr. Speaker iigned two enrolled bills,
viz.
A bill making conipenfations to the com
missioners of loans for extraordinary ex
penes ; and a bull fupplenientary to the
Act making proviiion lor the deLit of the
United states.
A b 11 making certain apppropriations,
was coniidered 111 committee of the whole,
reported without amendment, and ordered
to be engrOlied for a third reading.
Mr. Otis notified ihe Home, tnat the se
nate had (with an amendment') agreed to
the amendment? propoied by tne ltoufe t»
the b 11 making alterations in Uie Trpafury
and War departiiieiKS.— fiie amendment
was agreed to by the House.
Tuesday, May 8.
After a felfion of fix. months and twenty
three days, the Spenker of the Hou'e of Ke
prefentatives, and- the Pre'.ident pro tem
pore of the Sena.e, this day adjourned their
relpeitive Houl'es, about e ght o'clock
P. M. to me it again on the firlt Monday
of November next.
[The minutes of this day's proceedings
shall appear in our next.
PHILADELPHIA.
May io, i:p2.
Extrafl tf a letter from a gentleman in Marfrillet
10 tit's correspondent in this city, dated March xx.
" \ ou will receive this by the American
(hip Louisa, of Baltimore, Gapt. Birkhead,
wljo arrived here on January 24th with 383
hogilieadsof loba.co to my addrefs,of which
1 have already fold 220, from sixty toilxtjr
three livres per quintal, marked weight,
tare 12 per cent, free of the duty for the
owners. Ihe ship now lies ready to fail
with the firfl fair wind, with a fine outward
cargo conlifting of brandies, refined brim
ftc ne for making gun-powder, Smyrna and
Syria wool-cotton, Caliile ibap, olive oil
tor fallads, capers, olives and anchovies,
almoin and black prunes, Smyrna raisins,
confectionary, gloves, umbrellas, fans, (ilk
flocking , occ,. ixc. These articles, taking
one with another, have almofl doubled 111
price 011 account of the loss 011 the allignats,
wh.ch are now our only current money,
and are offered this day at 40 per cent, lot's
French crowns ; but notwitnfland
ng tobacco and all kinds of imported com
modities have risen in proportion to the ex
ports, it is more eligible to tai<e goods in
return than ie,.d veflels back in ballalt and
make remittances in bills 011 London, which
are now at fifteen and three-fourtlis to fif
teen pence for a three livre allignat, and
likely to fail ftiii lower. As to other mat
ters, I will briefly mention what has occur
red here durng Gapt. Birkhead's ttay in
tliia port. —One uight tile arms of the Spa
nilli Gonful were taken out from the out
ward door of his house, avid hung at the
irqn collar of tiie pubfc market, where
they icinained till nine o'clock in the morn
ing In the afternoon they were returned
by order of the municipality to his house ;
but he having in the mean tanefent an ac
count of this insult to his court, they were
not replaced. He has since departed, whe
ther by order from his court or not, is un
certain. The municipality, however, iiid.
Ed a proclamation, forbidding iuch illegal
ixsefles, whatever might be the national,
complaints againlt the conduct 0:' certain
powers.—A fortnight ago about 1200 of
national guards arrived here, with guns
mounted, inc. and took their departure a
jain for Aix (lixteen miles north of Mar
seilles ) without any orders except from the
club of Jacobins. At Aix they were joint a
by about 6000 others from the country, and
mounted 18 pieces of cannon round the
jarracks, where the br?ve Swiss regiment
of Heraeft had been ltationed 'by order of
ihe commander in chief of the military de
partment. A fort of capitulation enlued,
and in conference of orders from thefame
department, the whole regiment, officersand folder', mirched off, leaving a'l their
fire-arms, swords, Sfc. (which became the
prey of the co:i-.;.u.erors). They proceeded
■without halting, to Roquiva re, where tlie\
•were received as if they had cLcßroved tht
nation, an-i were obliged to go to the Beatll
set, where they paflVd the night in the oper
air, and were scarcely able to procure vie
tuals for their money. They were not per
mitted to come iiuo Toulon at all, and are
new at a vill 'ge in the vicinity of that place
The only crifle alledgetl them is.
their havinsr ajways remained subordinate
to their offtcc'rs, and during tiieir ft:ty ii
Marfei'les prevented the merchants froir
being p!nndcred of the' r property. On tht
return of tl'e army a hucklter woman. or
t' - course. having" fid it confided o!
brigands (banditti), was dragged by the
people to the municipality, and thro *n in ■
to prison ; bnt the populace, not ia;i fled
with thi -. about four o'clock in the after
n->oii, forced the pyiibu door, wre'led het
from the hand o i municipal officer, v.'hc
<i : d al! In hi power to prevent these exc fTe-,
':v;d in tile preferee of her hu'band, Jmno
her up at the municipality** lantern,; —'the
fill female v.itiin to the re oLit>.o:i in
J-ance.
" We are, in great '.rant of wheat
aid flour, wti'-ch I fear wll be ie cale for
a ok' 11mi■ the c o > ■ o-.v in the ground
a'o diigav r i n avt>-a >ie p'olpe t. Ame
rican v i . vvouul no v b ng -ifty livre
.per c'-urge and iiper :ie ffour sixty livre;
pe • bar el, wh-eli von in iy calculate o.i a
the it r- .1 ee nr o ir market lor those ar
ticle.. deducting lo'V on- remittances fron
tlie pet" proceed Those who may under
take to sappy hW place with wheat am
flour may therefore expert to find them
leive.-. amply benefited by their adventures.'
By a late arrival at Norfolk, in Virginia
fiom London, Eighth papers are received tc
«hr 6ih ol Mdic l. Nothing very material hac
si that time taken place upon the political
tif Eu'ope. G'rmany and i>s levral petty
tiependencics were riowded with troops, pre
pared to a£t as orcalion and ciTtimlantrs fhoulri
/equi"; butlhe ahfolurr certainty that the Bel
jfic piovincei would join Fiance the moment
any like hoflrlittes were declared againll
Xii i by the Emperor, and his allies Items lo have
thrown a damp upon the piojef-.led exertions ol
this monarch tn favor ol rhe difjlfefcted part ol
the French Nation.
Arco:i;'ts by the fame vrfT-1 fiv, that tht
Pinch. E.i 11 and Well India companies appear
to be in the lad of a I'pi edydiflblurion, and
that the commerce itfelf of the republic is on the
*vc of r-.-in.
On the ?7th February lat the Trifh Se
nate Mouse at Dublin (said to have been
oae of the irioft elegant and bell accommo
dated of any in Europe) took fire and in ?
few hours was reduced to ashes. The li
brary and papers of importance were saved.
We hear that afpecial meeting of the di
rectors of the manufacturing Society are
called to meet at Newark, on Tuesday the
.15th inllant, for the purpose of fixing up
on the permanent feat of the said fac
tory.
7 he pilot-boat which failed from New-
York some time since for London, and
Which created so much conjefu e a ; to the
cause o ! " her departure, was feilt by the di
rector; of th New- t erfey manufacturing
Society, to ferule the 50.000 dollars, a-
Bient oned in their report.
We hearths rs bridge Indian is ar
riveu in town from < ad 1, with informa
tion that a general meeting is fliortly to be
Jleid itrYemh C.ek, to conlilt of twe
Sachem, and tv o v-irriors of each of the
tribes of Indians now at variance with rhe
United States. The objects of this meet
ing are said to be—to con-lilt on their gen
eral interellr—the several deputies to lav
before the meeting a ftaremcnt of thecauf
es of the existing holtilit'es ; and finally tc
endeavour to bring about a treaty with the
general government, for the purpose of ef
tabliflung a permanent peace.
Mr. Paine's second part of the " Right!
of Man," combining principle and practice,
isnowtn theprefs in this city. The co
py wa b ought by Dr. Winlhip, jufl arriv
ed from London.
The American interconrfe bill had,
when the late accounts left England, un
dergone a feeond reading in their parlia
ment ; but 110 commercial prohibition:
whatever had taken place, except the en
forcement of the act of' Charles the second,
sorb.tiding American produce to be im
ported tn foreign bottoms into the islands
©fGuernley and Jerley.
French p >pers of a late date inform that
M. de la Peyroufe. the celebrated French
•ircumnavigator who was wrecked in the
Indian Teas, ha at length returned totlie
Cape of Good Hope, with about one third
of his crew. They are said to have under
gone crery thinjr, in the line of fuffering,
that it i.; poflible for human nature to bear.
Ij.+ The Report of the Committee of
Con reft appointed to enquire into the
e." 'Ic of the tai ure of tile late expedition
tintler Ma or-f eneraiSt.' Clair, was intend
ed >or this day'« paper, but is unavoidably
deferred for want ol room, till our next.
THE bf Coljjrefe just closed has
been tliftitlgmfhed by feverai circtunftances
highly intereftlng to the Unittd St i',e
The rtegative put by the President 011
the bill for apportioning repreleiitarives
being the firft exercise of that power, and
being interposed in defence of the constitu
tion, is worthy of particular regard, hoth
a: it illustrates the wisdom of that check
in the government, antl the dignified and
patriotic firmnefs of the Chief Magistrate.
It must confeqtiently be viewed with n« in
couliderable mixture of fatisfaftion, even
by those who did not concur in the con
ftruftion which prevailed.
The decision of the judges ngaiuft the
conflitutionality of an ast in which the ex
ecutive had concurred with the legislative
departments, is the firft instance, also, ii)
which that branch of the gov ernment has
xvithftood the proceedings of the others ;
a id being another refourie admitted by the
i onftitution for its own defence, and for
security of the rights which it guarantees
to the leveml states, and to individual ci
tizen-, it In ly b ? contemplated under some
ve-y p'ealirig afpefts, without undertaking
to lecdt on the merits of the particular
cpielHon.
A militia system, the true and equal
gu Tvl an of freedom and a free country,
.Nhlch a : several preceding feilion . ex
perienced'nl'urtjiountable obilacles, has at
the prefen*. been at lat accompli hed.
Whiltt Congress have reaibnubly kepr
the door open for all non-fubferiber to the
public debt already bound upon them, they
hive made a fuccef ful stand aganft the
alarming policy of swelling the public debt,
by further and umieceffary afl'umptions.—
'1 hey have alio in several provirions and
unfimflied proceedings, exhibited a difpo
fi lon. which prefaces moi e effectual ef
forts for re ling public credit on its true,
unartlficial and natural for
rescuing us from the evils of a public deb:
as fact as the public faith and refnurces will
permit, and for discouraging thole mis
chievous (peculations and abules which
have been no less mortifying to the virtu
ous pride, than they h.ive been injurious
to the true interest' of a republican people-
In general it may be oblerted that the
fentimeuts and proceedings of the Jegifla.
tive body are aflurning a complexion more
in conformity with the republican princi
ples of the government and genius of the
people. In what degrees the change is to
be ascribed to the force of truth operating
on involuntary error, to the new fund ol
abilities and sentiments added to and min
gled the antecedent mas., or to the
salutary refieftion and re-action from an
enlightened and awakened public mind, i
a calculation that might be curious, and
not without its use, but which it is neither
neceflary, nor perhaps as yet practicable,
to execute with exaftnefs. It is of more
immediate importance to draw from the
fact the consolatory hope that the aberra
tions nf the government in any instances
from the plain and direst path of republi
can policy, will be gradually corrected by
the influence of reason and refponlibility,
until every great public measure lliall be in
due accord with the tone of a virtuous and
well-informed public mind, and tend to
the accoinplilhment of the beneficent pur
pores which a free people had in view w hen
they planned and adopted the present na
tional government.
Tkcfollouirtg is a lijl cf the /CTS paffi at th e
latefjjion of Congress.
1. AN ACT granting farther lime Tor makin;:
return of the enumeration ol the inhabitant! in
the dilliiti of South-Carolina.
2. An A 8 tor the relief of David Cook and
Thomas Campbell.
3. An Ast making appropriations for the fnp
port of government for the) ear one thoofand fc
ven hundred and ninety-two.
4. An Ast for carrying into rffrft a rontiafl
between the United States and the (late of Pain-,
fvlvani*.
5. An A£l to extend the time limited for fet
tling the accounts of the United Stoics with the
ii.J vidual (lates.
6. An At\ concerning certain fiflirries of ihe
United States, and for the regulation and govern
ment of,(he filhermen employed theiein.
7. An Ast toeltahlilh thepod-olficeand pod
roadi within the United States.
8. An Ast relative to the election of a Prefix
dent and Vice-President of the United States,
and declaring the officer who shall ast as Presi
dent in cafe of vacancies in the offices both of
PreGdent and Viee-Preficient.
9. An Ast for making farther and more effec
tual provision for the protefton of the.frontiers
of the United States.
10. An Ast declaring the alien' of Congress
to a certain ast of the (late of Maryland, and to
continue for a longer time an ast declaring the
alleni of Congress to certain acts of the dates of
Maryland, Georgiaand Rliode-Mhnd and Piori.
dence Plantations, fofar as the lame iclpctts the
dates of Georgia, and Rhode liland and Piofi
dcnce Plantations.
>i. An Ast to provide for the fettlcment of
the claims ot widows and oiphans baircd by the
limitations herrtofoie edablilhei), mW to regulate
the claims to invalid pcnfions.
J!>. An A& provider,' for ttije flmlement ftf
(ht eUjuls of peilons under particular ciicUruHaii
ces b.irrcd by the limitation* heieroforc cfla
klirticd.
13. An Ast Tor the relief of certain widows
orphans, invalids and other pet lons.
14. An Ast fuppUmental 10 the ast for ma
king farther and more effectual provilion fur the
prottdionol the frontiers of the United States.
15. An ast for finifhing the Its ht-houfe on
Baldhead, hi ihr mouth ps Cape-Fear river, in
1 he Oa:e of North Carolina.
16. An Ait eliabltdiing a mint, and regtilatihg
thf coins ot the United Slates.
17. An Ast fupplemcniaiy to the ast for the
eftabhflrmrnt and lupport of light-tioules, bea
cons, buoys and imhlic pieis.
18. An Ast 10 erect a light-lioule on Mon
:ok-Poini, in the Hate of N w-York.
19. An Ast for afeertaining the bounds of a
tract ol land purebred by John Cleves Si unties
20. An Ast for fixing the compenlation of
the door-keepers of the Senate and Houleot Re
ptefentatives in Congress.
21. Att Ast foraltrnnpthe times of holding
the circuit courts, in certain diOriftsof the Uni
ted States, and for other purpofrs.
22. An Ast to compensate the corporation of ■
ttuneesof thf public grammar Ichool and acade
my of Wilmington, in the flateot Delaware, for!
the occupation of) and damages done to the said'
school, duiing the late war.
13. An Ast for apportioning reprcfentatives
, mong the leveral dates according to the fiift
enumeration.
24. An Ast concerning consuls and vice
confuli.
sg. An Ast authorizing the prant and con
veyance of certain lands to tile Ohio Company
us Allot iatfs.
26. An Ast to Ind'ttiniTv the cflate of the
lite majof-general Nathaniel Gtten, for a cettain
bond entered into by him during the late war.
27. An Ast for railing t farther lumof money
for the pro cftion of the frontiers, and for other
purpoles therein mentioned.
28. An Ast to provide for calling forth the
militia to execute the laws of the Union, fup
p .ess inlurrfftioni, and repel invasions.
29. An Ast for the relief of peilons imprison
"d for debt.
30. An Ast authorizing the grant and con
ire; ance of cert iin lands to John ClevesSymmei,
irid his afTociatrs.
31. An Ast to alter the time of the next an
nual meeting of Congress.
32. An Att concerning the duties on fpiiits
litlilled within the United Stales.
33. An Ast relattve to the compensations to ;
:ei tain officer! employed in the collettion of the
duties ol impod and tonnage.
34. An Ast 10 continue in force the ast inti
uled, " An Att to provide for mi'.igating or re
mitting tile penalties and foifeituresacciuingun
der the revenue laws 111 cettain cases, and to
make farther piovifion for the payment of pen
lions to invalids."
3,5. An Att supplemental to the ast making
provilion for the debt of tht United Slates.
36. An Ast for making compensations to the
commiffioneis of loans for extraordinary expen
ds.
37. An Ast making alterations in the Trealu
ry and War departments.
38. An Att making certain appropriations
therein Ipectfied.
31) An Att to provide for a copper coinage.
An Ast for regufating piocefles in the
courts olthe United States, and provtding iom
penfations for the officers of the laid courts, and
tor jurors and witnesses.
41. An A<fl concerning the claim of John
Brown Cutting again!) the United States.
4«. An Atttocompi nfatc the leiviccs of the
l.ite colonel George Giblon.
43. An Ast moie effetlurilly to provide for the
national defence by edablilhing an unifotm mili
tia throughout the United States.
44. A.i Ast icfpetfing the government of the
icrmorn s of the United States 1101 th well and
loath of ihe river Ohio.
RESOLVE, directing the Se-cretary of the
Ticjlury to fuinifh the several collectors with
uiintc'd Clearances,.'dating the accounts of the
methods thai have been used to obtain f(cQi water
lioni lalt, &e.
" Mad dogs ! mad dogs I mad dogs I
Enemies to the goev nment I
Mad dogs I mad dogs / mad dogs I" *
QUCH is the hue and cry 1 <11 led, by three
ij or -tour writers, again!) every man who
writes on the mealures of government, without
dipping his pen in molatfes, to Iwecten every
line with panegyriek. But if thole impor
tunate clam iiiiiWs will only fuffcr me to be
heaid, I will tell a (hut flory, that will set
this matter in its proper light.—
A pack of rogues, Mr. Editor (no offence 1
hope to anv hone It man) a pack ot rogues once
look polleffion of a ebuich, famous foi miraclcs,
* " the attack upon the government
•! renewed ——~thefc enevnes of the government
they wifli ] to make the resentment of the people
\he means of its diflruflion —thfir dejlruflive pnn
:ipUs— they are enemies— audaciousfcribblers—they
attempt to unite down a republican government —
'heir own diford-red imaginations —thry rave about ,
monfiers brtauje thry are out of their wits."— \
Alt thefc courtly compliments are extraßedfrcrm ,
one Jingle publication, the Gazette of the United ,
Slates of Wtdnfday May the 2d, printed by Mr. ,
/11/ in Fcnno, (from Bolton) living at No. 69, ,
Market -Jlreet, Philadelphia. I
anS held in high veneration (>v the 'ntiabitanti
jf thelurrounding diflrift. Fiointhis fanttuaiy
• hey Tallied out eVery night. tohbed and plun
d. r.-d all the ahd when pursued,
took (belter within the hallowed walls. If any
mar. attempted to molrfl ihcm there, they de
tened hnn from the enterprise by crying outJa
cril'gi, and fweatihg they would denounce him
to the inquifiiiori as a haetic and an encftiy to
holy mother Churcll.
Companions are fometirries bilious, but they
jre often ulelul; ahd when there happens to be
my thing odious, difgra'ceful, Or improbable in
.bein, they arn tHen to be fsnmued, not in a
itcial ferile, but in a Liberal one, as the woidj
if the couftitulion fiequetitly are. Thds wheti
Hbrner compares one of his heroes to an a (it,
« are not to (inderll'and tfint (he hero was all ass
tp to the ears, 6r that the ass was a ht:ro that
ould Hiut upon two legs and peitorm the ina
lUal exeicile with a hall pike or a javelin ; but
imply that the ass and the hero resembled each
«her in some one paitiertlar, no matter what,
[tithe fame manner when I compare .* tain
viitersto certain i«sues, God forbid I should be
ttjdeillood to jfccule luch writers of being down
ight bonafide rogues, or lueh rogues of having wit
nollgh to varnilh over their roguery by writing '
n a newspaper I X only mean there is a (Irong
efemblance between the wiieis and the rogue s
n one particular inHance of thrir condufl, and
[bans the lailingluch » hue and cry offaci i/ege,
■nemies, and mad does. However, left any ma -
icious perfou (hould wilfully miflake my tnein
ng, 1 will further illiterate it.
The people of Jifteen v itd paripies. in a
rertain part of Anreriia, have a.uerl on one
:otnmon religion, and errfted to thnnfelves
\ temple, which ihey hold in as high
veneration as the church afotelaid. Thev
nave entrusted this temple iO the rdie of a set of
jriefls chosen and paid foi the exptefs puipofe
jf petlorming service in it, keeping it in repair,
tnd Writing catechifmj and boots of tifeful in
trusion to promote ' thegeneral wefare'' of the
ifteen united pariflieit
But if a number of those jjriefis form a cdnfpi
aey against the others who aretooT. w to male
>ppo(ition— overpower them, hind them hand
uid foot, and gag them to prevent their crying
)ut; it then the victorious party, instead of wri
iuggodly books, employ their pens in fcribbhng
icenttoits pieces to corrupt the morals of their
><iri(hoticrs; if inllead of keeping the temple in
epjir, they break the doors and windows, and
onveitthe altar into a gaming table) if instead
)t performing divine service, they gooutonfro
icktng parties aerols the inountaihs, to dfink up
he bjckwoodfmen's tvhijkey without paving'for
t, an 3 cut down their apple and peach uees io»
'(hi their own pots •, if they break into the negro
mis in 10b the poor (l ives of their fait; if bv
windling tricks (hey cheat old soldiers of their
■rutches and wooden legs; it they (end out pilot
toats to drip and plunder tbrpwrecked Lilors who
ire endeavoring to (win ashore ; if they afters
ward, to'ce the parilhtoners to buy tip their
vhu\cfiock of crutches, » oorlen legs and tailor's
ackets at more than the o iginal value— and in
jrder to complete the purchase, oblige them to
ign an irredeemable mortgage of the bread of tH: r
joflerity tor a hundred years to come ; if thev
urn Mounte-i?aw4i and hocus-pocus-mm. eort
rerting the gold and silver of their parishioners
nto wafiepaper, and their own waste paper into
s°ld and lilver; if they pull down the fences and
joundaries of the fifteen parilhes, to erect palif
idoes and fortifications all round the temple ; if
■hey pick quarrels in the woods with people wha
)tily come lo pick blackberries that they may
lave an excuse for fwaggenng about with fworrl
ind piflol, and bullying the parillnoners into paf
lve obedience and non-refi/lance ; if thev do all
hefe things and a tboufand things more of the
ame oraworfe kind—what are the parifliionerj
o do ?
Nothing at all, I trow ! for if tve (nit
'pen our lips against one of those priefls,
hough we catch him in the very ail of get
ing drunk on our wbifky, breaking down
»ur fences, ravaging our orchards, or hocus*
>ocujjing eurodollars,'the writers I have men
joned (like the rogues I have mentioned)
will cry out facrtl ge\ that we want to de
ieflroy temple, and that every honest man is
bound in conclence to lend a hand to hang
us up for a pack df atheists and rebels,
rnemies to the temple, the religion and the
ftvernment of the United p'arifhes.
I would not afFrOnt t iofe writers by cal
ling in qdeftion their flock of honesty ; for
they do not appear to speculate vety deep
ly in that kind of fiock, they are perhaps not
prepared tor the question. But i-'they wish
to get any credit for their wtfdom, they
would do well to hold their tongues and
burn their pens, unless they cart prove, ei
ther that the priefls do not commit such.
actions, or that such actions are lawful, con
lillent with the eltablilhed religion of the
united parilhes, and conducive to the
general welfare of the parishioners. Other
wise, if they continue to call us mad dogs,
why nt ty not we in turn call them fad.
dogs and arrant hypocrites, who with all
their pretended zeal for the temple and the
:flablifhed religion, are at bottom rank
lieathens, who have no more sense of reli
gion than a herd of buffaloes, and only flat
:er the priefls and encourage them to go still
;reater lengths, in hopes of feeing the tem
)le at last fairly converted into a temple of
nammon, and there profitably exerting their
ceal and industry in the general fcralnible for
:he loaves andfifes'- LNCOKt.-The PARTING CLASS.
[Written at an Inn.]
THE man that joins in life's career
And hopes to find some comfort h'ere 5
To rife above this earthly mtfs,
The only way's to drink his glass.
But still on this uncertain stage
Where hopes and fears the foul engage ;
And while amid the joyous band
Unheeded flows the meafur'd sand,
Forget not, as the moments pass,
That Time shall bring the parting glass.
In spite of all the mirth I heard
This was the glass I always fear'd—
The glass that would the reft destroy,
The farewell cup—the close of joy.
With you, whom reason taught to think,
1 could, for ages, fit and drink :
But with the fool, the sot, the ass,
1 hade to take the farewell glass.
The Ju.klcfs wight, that still delays
His drink of joy to future days-
Delays too long—for then, alas !
Old Age steps in, and breaks the glass.
The nymph, who boasts no borrowed charms,
Whose sprightly wit my bosom warms, .
What tho* she keeps this country inn, *
And mixes grog, or deals out gin }—
With such a kind, obliging lass
1 sigh to take the parting glass.
With him who always plods on scrip»
Nor throws off care to take a sip,
The wretch who thrives by others woes
-And scatters grief where'er he goes j—
With people of this knaviih class
The firft is still my parting glass.
With these that drink before they dine—•
With him that a&s the grunting swine,
Who fills his page with low abuse
And strives to a£l the gabbling goose
Turn'd out by fate, to feed on grass—
Boy, give me quick the parting glass.
The man, whose friendship is sincere,
Who Jeels no guilt, and knows no fear :
3c would require a heart of brass
With him, to take the parting glass !
With him, who loves a pot of ale j
Who holds to all an even scale,
Who hates a knave, in each disguise,
And feais him not—whate'er his size—
With him, well pleas'd my days to pass,
May Heaven forbid the parting glass.
May 2.
Mr, Hartley's SPEECH in the House of Re pre
fevtatiscs of the United. States, on the further
ajjumptian cf the State Debts,
March 31.
In committee of the whole, upon the State
Debts.
Mr. Hartley-
After so long a difcufiion my attempting to
take up any great length of time, would not be ex
cufeable ; but I consider it my duty to fay a word
or two, in answer to some charges and observa
tions, used against the constitution and operation
of this government $ and give a few reasons, why
I shall, at this time, vote for the resolution un
der confederation.
It will not be neceflary for me to- take into
View the principles upon which the constitution
was framed—they were fully examined in the gen
eral convention as well as the fcveral state conven
tions, and flood the test of the ftri&eft scrutiny—
they are favorable to liberty and justice.
As to the operation of this government, we
tray best understand it by contrasting the state of
Amsrica at the adoption of the constitution with
the present day. At the former period, our cre
dit, as United States of America, was at a low
ebb. Few of the individuals of foreign countries
would give a credit to the individuals of this.
The capitals of Europe would not be trusted in
America. They doubted our justice as well as
•ar government.
There was scarcely any credit given among in
dividuals here. A universal distrust prevailed.
Agriculture languished—the farmer diffident she
had loft his confidence. The great spur to indus
try was wanting.
No (hips on your stocks; few veflels in your
harbours ; -commerce decayed j the vital spirit
loft. I might fay more.
What is our present state ? The ciedit of our
government is as good as that of any country.
The individuals of all nations will trust the
individuals of America. Individuals (until a late
unfortunate bubble or abuse of credit, arising from
bad men or bad management, and which poflibly
may only hart for the moment) gave full credit to
each other as far as their capitals extended ; as
well in the city as in the country, and confidence
prevailed.
Agriculture, where the people are industrious
and apply their attention to the raising of those ar
ticles which are most in demand, is in the highest
improvement ever known here before. ] can
speak with confidence of the state I live in. The
idle and indolenr can expect no great foccefs in
any art orprofefiion which depends upon the stea
dy hand of industry.
There are (hips on the stocks in every port
where there are ship-builders and materials. The
tonnage lift will shew the vast increase of the Ame
rican (hipping. It has far exceeded the most san
guine expectation.
Several of the firft merchants state your com
merce in a most refpe&able situation, far beyond
any other period. Indeed, the returns from the
Secretary of the Treasury shew how great our im
ports, and how vast our exports are.
In point of justice, our reputation stands high
with the world—Our courts will do justice.
Pray what foundation fox those strong aflertions
which have been made against the constitution
and the government?
As to the funding fjftem, I shall fay little at
present. I much doubt if it deserves the Lad
names which have been given it. Abuses will be
:ommitted i» all countries j no human plan can
be secure against them.
The aflumption of the state debts was fully con
lidered upon a former occasion.—Several of us
jvifhed to fund the debts of the union alone.
Many gentlemen of the fbuth, when we came to
ook for ways and means, voted against us, and
;he eastern representatives were always ready to
oin in defeating us, unless the aflumption of the
late debts also took place.
The bill pafl'ed the House of Representatives
r or fundine the debts of the union alone ; but the
Senate sent it back with an amendment, assuming
he state debts to a certain amount. After much
argument, the amendment of the Senate was a
jreed to by the House of Representatives. Jus
tice was nearly done to some states, others do com
plain, and I think Rhode-island with strong rea
son.
I could have wished that the accounts between
:he United States and the several States had been
ettled : but I will give the gentlemen, who com
>lain so much, an opportunity of fatisfying the
louse, if they can, when the blanks are to be fil
ed up in the bill, that the lums they demand are
•eafonable, and are intended to give relief to the
>eople of their states.
1 will vote for the resolution.
To which Mr. FINDLEY replied :
IF I am not altogether so elated with our pre
"ent prosperity and resources, as my worthy col
eague who is just fat down, (Mr. Hartley) I af
"ure you I am not desponding—l think our re
ources are competent, and our circumflances not
leprened,—the great industry of our citizens, and
he great demand and high price for our produce
n foreign markets, which took place about two
fears ago, gave a spring to our wealth and indul
ry, and furnished ample resources to government;
>ur feelings have not been pierced with the cries
>f general distress, until very lately, thrgugh the
ibufe of the novel principles introduced in the
unding system.
But though I rejoice with the gentleman in the
"ufficiency of our means, yet I consider ourselves
n the situation of an unexperienced heir, newly
ome to the enjoyment of a great estate, who, be
ng dazzJed with his own splendor, and con
ident of his means, lets about spending without
yftem or principles, and gets embarralted before
le is aware.
We are told, that the principle of afluming the
late debts is already admitted by the last Con
;refs, therefore it ought to be compleated now j
ve are just told, too, that it was fully considered
here.
I alk then, Why was not the business fully
:ompleted at that time—if it was not, then what
reason can be given for carrying it further
iow ?—ls there any new discovery of better rules
;o apportion by, or is the distress of the states who
lave yet some unaflumed debt, as prelfing as when
hey had to bear the burthen of three or four mil
ions more than now ? Gentlemen knew that the
ength this business has gone already, has given
jreat uneasiness to those states who made the
treateft exertions to extinguish their own debts,
ind to whose circumstances and feelings the re
ources applied to (he afiumed debts of the states,
we diftrefiing and disagreeable.
For what purpose are the commifiioners em-
in adjuftingthe accounts between the indi
vidual states and the United States, if the whole
>f the state debts were to be afiumed previous to
;hat settlement ? We know the government is not
irefted with powers to compel delinquent states to
lo justice , and that if ever justice is done to those
states who have extinguished their own debt, it
must be by increasing of the general revenue in
proportion to the money Congress will have ro pay
to those states, and it is an unjuftifiable and dan
gerous policy to draw the money from the people
•vith the one hand, to jay it to the state govern
ments with the other.
1 havefuch information as I can depend upon,
[hat the commiflioners will report upon the final
settlement of the state debts, in the courfeof next
winter j and the resolution before the committee
makes no provilion for interest until after the year
1792. Why then take this further leap in the
iark, when those states who will be attually enti
tled to it, will be as soon relieved according to the
principles of justice, as they would by diihibuting
;he public property in this manner by rule of
thumb.
1 always thought the aflumption of the state
jfebts a measure which the constitution did not
:onlemplate, and which had a tendency to sow the
feeds of discontent in many parts of the United
States, and now it is argued that the precedent
being set by the Jaft Congress we ought to copy
itl admit of no principles of infallibility in
Congress—and if precedents produce an obligation,
Me ought to be th; more careful not to strengthen
them by repeating such as are improper or doubt
ful. The only plausible reason for afluming the
state debts in the last Congress so far, was to ease
the burden of such states as had been most backward
in providing for their refpe&ive debts, so as that
they might be able to provide for what remained
until the accounts would be fettled, and to make
some pr»vifion for the states who had done much
to extinguifti their debt as a security that the
debts would be brought to a final settlement.
Certainly those states, at whose desire, and for
whose conveniency so much has been do*e, ought
to have a little more moderation.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Dulce eji internum dejipere•
THE etymology of the following four wordi
appears to me to be much more modern
than is commonly supposed. They are evidently
ind radically of Engliih origin, as every one
learned in thathiftory and language will readily
perceive.
1. Sycophant,—was the nick-name of a man
that lived in the reign of James thefecond. He
bad an old aunt that resided in the family, in a
great measure as matter of favour. The o!
woman having lived to an extreme ase, and like
Iy to live much longer, and the nephew, fceinj
quite tired of her, would frequently exclaim, 1>
Jlck of aunty ivderd t Vm very Jick of aunt. Not
withstanding this, wilhing to heir - what {he pof
felled, he always carried a fair face to her wher
present. Hence arose the word Jycophant, oi
one who flatters for feifilh purposes.
2. Go/pel,—An ignorant man, about the mid
die of the left century, took a notion all at onc<
to learn to read. His fchool-rnaiier, after teach
ing him the firft elements, soon after, and rather,
prematurely, set him to, and kept him constant
ly reading the four The fellow, a:
might well be expelled, made continual blunders
and the matter would as constantly cry out, " A
pretty fellow to read, surely ! —go, you block
head, go spell I^—The perpetual r< eurrence of th<
cry of go fpell'in the fcliooi, occalioncd these booki
at length to be called gospel.
3. Bombazine— A thin India fluff, in which
the natives of that hot country were so dressed
frequently without any under garment. Tin
Englilh, upon their fir It visiting India, said it wa:
a lhame for people to wear such fluff, which wa;
so very thin that their bums might plainly be fee;
through. Their constantly talking of the in
dians bums beingf.cn, at length inlenfibly gave ;
name to this kind ot flimly frabric, at prelcm
written bombazine, bur originally bum-be-feen.
4. Ariflocracy This word is, by so.me, tho'i
to be of Greek derivation. I deny it. By righi
it ought to be pronounced 11 hariftocracy," ant
for the following reason -During the ufnrpa
tion of Oliver Cromwell there lived a printer ii
London, who wa3 a violent republican. Hi
name was Harry Hullfifh. Some time before th<
restoration, feeing their newfangled republic wa:
nearly at an end, he turned fairly about and be
gan to print furiouliy in favor of kingly fuprema
cy, hereditary fucceflion, titular dignities, See
All his old republican friends, upon this, criei
out, 41 Harry''s took crazy," certainly " Harry*,
took crazy"—His condudt _ comporting so wel
with the venal and servile government which wa
soon after eftablilhed, and has ever fines beei
continued in that country, has, as it were, ap
propriated the name of barijlocracy } or, arrflocra
cy, to leveral governments in liurope, where th
liberties of the many are to thii day retained ii
the hands of the lew. Yours, &c.
May 7. DLMOCRITUS.
BOSTON, April 26.
THE curiosity of the public is again excited t
enquire, when and on what terms, the officers 0
the late army will think their merits» their Aiffer
ings, and services properly rewarded : They hav
aifumed a diftin<stion of fupeiiority to their fel
low-citizens ; and by the inltitution of the focie
ty of the Cincinnati, implicitly told them, " w<
are better men than you are, and delerve to ftani
on better ground than jou do." Their countr;
has given them five years extra pay in commuta
tion for half pay during life : The larftentatioi
over the ingratitude and injustice of the countr
towards them is still kept up. They now com.
forward with a petitiou in effect, for a difcrimi
nation in their favor, which has been denied t(
their fellow-citizens at large 5 and if granted now
must be at the public expence, instead of coming
out of the pockets of those harpies, who firll de
preciated the public currency, then plundered thei
honest fellow citizens, made their own fortunes
and eftablilhed an influence, which screens then
fiom justice.
It it be not too late for the arm 0/ jullice t<
extort from thole wretches, the spoils 0/ their op
preflion and wickedness, for the purpose of ap
plying, without any diftin&ion, equity and joftic<
to all, it would be happy for the country, to havi
done new, what would have been done before, i
Mr. Madison's motion, (founded on the best prin
ciples, and sup ported by the faireft reasons) ha<
succeeded in the last Congress ; and in that caf't
that the late army /hould fliare with their fellow
citizens in the benefits resulting from it.
I feel no difpofttion to detract from the merit
and services of the officers of the army—the;
were undoubtedly great j so were those of man]
others in different departments : They have ha
zarded and fuffered much j so have many others
quite as much : They have had some confidera
tion j 110 other man or description of men hav*
had any, not even their brethren of the navy—ii
whofecafe the most metaphysical casuistry canno
make a diftintf ion.
Most oj the officers of the army (after all tha
has been said) were in better circumltances afte
the war, than they were before it: and some o
them better off than they probably would hav
been if they had not gone into the army j whill
most of those who served the public in differen
lines, could boa ft that they were poorer at the en
than they were at the beginoing of the war.
Justice is a noble comprehensive virtue, and ap
plies equally to all men.—Favoritism, or a par
tiality for any man or class of men, is a narrow
contra&ed vice. The firft exalts a nation—th*
last disgraces a government.
CHESTER TOWN & BALTIMORE
STAGES.
THF. Eaftern-fliore Stages, by way of Chefter
town to Baltimore, start regularly froir
Jamei Thompson's, Indian Queen, Fourth-street
Philadelphia, every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day mornings, precisely at 7 o'clock, and on thi
fame mornings, at four o'clock, from Mr.Grant'!
in Baltimore. The cultivation of the country,
and goodness of the roads, together with the at
tention that lhall be paid by the proprietors, will,
it is hoped, be a fnfticient inducement for a pre
ference being given to this route.
JAMES THOMPSON,
ROBERT HODGSON,
N. E. Light Waggons for hire by Jame:
Tiiompfon, at the Indian Queai.
March 30, 1 ; W ,
P, ices Current at Philadelphia.
[Dollars equal to joo cents. J
ASHES Pot per ton 90 Dols. to 100.
Aflies Pearl 13.7 — 140.
Bacon flitches per lb. 7 ccnts^.
Bacon shoulders — 6 do.
liees wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27*
Brandy, Coniac, pergl. j dol. 50 c, to I d. 65 c»
Brandy, common, 1 dol. 26 c.
Butter, in kegs, per lb. 10 c. to 12
Coals, per bulhel, 20 c. to 22
Coffee, per ib. 18 c.
Cotton, per lb. 30 c. to 42
I'iax, per lb. 10 c.
Flour, fuperfine, per barrel, 5 dols. 6 c.
Common, 4 dob.
Burr middlings, best, perbrl. 4 dola
Altai Indian 2 dols. 67 c.
Rye 3 dols.
Ship ftuft", per cwt, 1 dol.
Gin, Holland, per cafe, 4 dols*
Ginseng per Ib. 20 c. to 24
Grain, barley, per bufliel, 90 e.
— -■■■■ best (helled, per lb. 3c.
Buck-wheat, per bu(hel, 40 c.
Indian corn, 40 c. 44, Oats 26 c. pr. buflw
Rye 50 c. to 54, Wheat 95 to 1 dol.
F-fams, per lb. 8 c. te 9
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67c#
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9 c. to 11
Indigo, Carolina, per Jb. 40 c. to 1 dol#
Iron, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
CaitingSj per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nail-rods per ton 96 dols.
Pig, per ton, 24 dols. to 26 doh. 67 c«
Sheet, per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
Lard, hogj, per lb. 9 c. to 10
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
in pigs, — ~ 5 dols. 33 c. to 5 dols. 67 <*•
Red, —— 6 dols. 40 c. to 6 dols. 67 c.
White, —-—10 dols. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Myrtle wax per lb. iS c.
Molalfcs, per gal. 44 c. to 48
Pitch, ptr barrel, 1 dol. 73 c. to 2 dols.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 11 doU to II
Lower County, do. 10 dols.
Carolina, do. 9 dols.
isice, per 100 lb. 2 dols. 67 c.
llofin, per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 dols. 67 c*
Run), Antigua, per gal'on, 1 dol.
Barbadoes, do. do. 77 c.
New-England, &c. 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. j2 c.
Windward illand, 86 to 90 c.
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
Sugar, Havanna, white, per lb. 17 to 18 c.
Brown, per lb. 15 c.
Muscovado, per cwt. 14 dols. to 16 dols
Lump, per lb. 22 c.
Loaf, Tingle refined, 25 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 c.
Talio w, refined, per lb. 9c.
Tar, New-Jersey, 24 gal. to the brl. 1 dol.
Carolina, 32 gal. 1 dol. 33 c. to 1 dol. 67 C.
Tea, H>fon, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
Hyson /kin, 53 c. to 67
Soufhong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 30 c. to 34
Tobacco, James River, best. per cwt. 3 dols. 6©|
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 2 dols. 67 c. to 3 dols.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 2 dols. 50 c. to 3 dol
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl. 33 c. to 8 d
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, 2 dols* 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dols. 23 c.
Carolina, new, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dols.
Carolina, old, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 dol?.
Turpentine, per .barrel, 1 dol. 67 c. to 2 dols.
Wine, Madeira, per pipe, 106 dl. 67 c. to 200 dl*
Li(bon, ■ ■ ■■■ 96 dols. to 10c
TenerifFe, per gal. 51 c. to 60
Fayal, 44 c. 49
Port, per pipe, 106 dols. 67 c. to 120 dols
r> AN away on JVednefday night la ft, a Negrt
Man, about twenty-three years old ; bad on a
■igbt coh ured jhort coat : took with him a pair of
leather breeches and a pair »f green fluff do. a bea
ver hat half 'worn, narrow brim and deep crown ;
j pair of boots j firiped cotton and fitk Jlockings-- •
be isJliw made—reads and writes a legible hand
has, lam informed, procured a pass and certificate
of his being a free man. It is probable he will
sndcavor to get on board some nejj'el, either at this
place cr New-York* He has a small fcarr under
bis chin occafioncd by cutting out a wen. I will
jive Forty Dollars reward to any per/on who will
lelivcr him to me at this place, and pay all reasona
ble expentes,
ANDREW MOORE.
No. 11Z Spruce-Street*
April 23.
MACKINTOSHES DEFENCE.
This day is publifticd, by William Young, Book
seller, No. 52, Second.street, the corner of
Chelnut-ftreer, price 2-3ds of a dollar in boards,
ADEFENCE
OF THE
French Revolution.
And its ENGLISH ADMIRERS, against the ic
culations of the Right Honorable Edmund Burkej
: including some ftri£tures on the late predu£fcion of
iMonf. De Calonne—
1 By JAMES MACKINTOSH.
I N. B.—Ditto with the French Constitution, as
(accepted by the King, 13th September 1791*
Price in boards 3»4ths dollar.
Ajril 15. 3t.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAINE,
;.\T THJKJP. «FFICE, NO. 209, Ml G lt-S TRSJS T
N2AR FIFTH-STREET,
PHILABILFHIA.