Vol. I.
[From o late London paper. ]
PAINE's LETTERS t 9 bUNDAS.
Sir,
AS you opened the debate in the house
of commons, May 25th, 6n the
proclamation for fupprefling publications,
which that piailamation (without naming
any) calls wicked and ieditions, and as
you apply those opprobious epithets to the
works, entitled, RIGHTS OF MAN, I
think it jjecefTaiyto offer any other ftsfau
for addressing this letter 10 you.
1 begin then at once, by declaring, that
I do not believe there are to be found in
the writings of any author, ancient or mo
dein, on the fubjeft of government, a fpi
ritof greater benignity, and a ftror.ger in
culcation of moral principles than in those
which I have published. They come, fir,
from a man, who, by having lived in seve
ral countries, and under different systems
of government, and who, being intimate
in the conftiu£tion of them, is a better
judge of the fubjedl than is poiTible that
you, for the want of those opportunities,
ean be : and besides this, they come from
a heart that knows not how to beguile.
1 will further fay, that when that mo
ment arrives in which the bell consolation
that shall be left will be that of looki
back on some pail actions, more virtuous
more meritorious than the refl, I (hall then
with happiness remember, among oilier
things, I have written the righ s of man.
As to what proclamations, or profeciitions,
or place men, or place expe&ants — those
who poflefs, or thofi who arc gaping for
office, may fay ».f them, it will net alter
their chara&er, either with the world or
with me.
Having, fir, made this declaration, I
/hall proceed to remark, not particularly
Upon your own speech upon that occalion,
but on any other speech to which your
motion on that day gave rife ; and I shall
begin with that of Mr. Adam.
This gentleman accuses me of not hav
ing done the very th : ng that T have done,
and which (he fays) iff hid done, he
Ihould not have accused me.
Mr. Adam, in his speech, fay'?, "That
he had well conlidered the fubjtft of 'lon
ftitutional publications, and was by no
jneans ready to fay (but the contrary) that
books offcience upon government, though
recommending a doctrine or fyltem dif
ferent from the form of out constitution
(meaning that of Euglimd) were fit objects
of prosecution : that if he did, he mult
condemn (which he meant not to do)Har
lingtoH for his Oceana, Sir Thomas More
for his Utopia, and Hume for his idea of
a perfedt commonwealth. But (continu
ed r. Adam) the publication of Mr.
Paine wa* very different, for it reviled
what was mod sacred in the constitution,
deflroyed every principle of subordination,
and ellablifhed nothing in their room "
I readily perceive that Mr. Adam had
not read the second part of the rights of
mail, and I am put under the neccffity, ei
ther of submitting to an erroneous charge,
or of juftifying myfelf against it; and I
certainly (hail piefer the latter. If then
I shall prove to Mr. Adam that, in my rea
-lonrng upon fyflems of Government in the
second part of the Rights of Man, I have
fl-ewn, as clearly, I think, as vVords can
convey ideas, a certain fyflem of govern
ment ; and that not existing in theory on
ly fct:t already in full and eftabhflied prac
tice, andfyftematically and practically free
from all the vices and defects of the Eng
lish government, and capable of producing
more happiness to the people, and that
also with an eighteenth part of the taics,
which the present fyftemof theEngiifh go
vernment consumes: I hope he will do me
the jufticewhen he next got s to the house
to get up and confefs, he had been mista
ken in faying, that I had eflablifhed no
thing, and that I had deflroyed every
principle of subordination Having thus
opened the cafe, I now come to the point.
By P. FREN EA U : Pu.blifh.cd Wednesdays and Saturdays, al Three Dollars per annum.
S A T U R D A Y, September i, 1792.
In the second part of the Rights of
Man, I have diflingiiifhed government into
two .classes or systems ; the one the heredi
taiy system ; the other the representative
system.
In th'r firft part of the Rights'of Man,
I have endeavoured to shew, and I chal
lenge any man to refute it that there does
not cxrft a right to establish hereditary go
vernment ; or, in other words/ hereditary
governors ; because hereditary government
always means a government yet to come,
and the cafe always is, that the people who
are to live afterwards have always the fame
right to choose a government for them
selves, as the people had who lived before
them.
In the second part of the Rights of
Man, I have not repeated those arguments,
because they are irrefutable ; but have
confined myfelf to shew the defe&s of
what is called hereditary government, or
hereditary succession, that it mud, from
the nature of it, throw government into
the hands of men totally unworthy of it
from want of principle, or unfitted for it
from want of capacity. James the J Id. is
recorded as an instance of the firft of these
cases ; and instances are to be found almost
a 1 over Europe to prove the truth of the
latter.
To {hew the ab'funjuty of the hereditary
system flill more ilrongly, I will now put
the following cafe : Take any fifty mert
promifcuouflv, and it will be very extraor
dinary, if out of that number, one man
fhou'd be found, whose principles and ta
lents taken tog ther (for some might
have principles, and oihets have talents)
would render him a person truly fitted to
fill any very extraordinary office of nation
al trull. If then ftich a fitnefs of charac
ter could not be expetted to be found in
more than one person out of fifty, it would
happen but once in a thousand years to
the eldgll son of any oite family,' admitting
each, on an average, to hold the office
twenty years. Mr. Adam talks of some
thing in the Confiitution which he calls
mod facicd ; but I hope he does not mean
hereditary fucc ffion, a thing which ;p
---pears to me a violation of every order of
nature a;id of common sense.
When I look into hitlory & fee the mul
titudes of men, otherlvife virtuous, who
have died, and their families been ruined,
in defence of knaves and fools, and which
they would not havt done had they rea
soned at all upon the system ; I do not
know a greater good than an individual
can render to mankind than to end -4vour
to break the chains of political superstition.
Those chains Are dissolving fact, and pro
secutions will serve but to hasten that difTo
lution.
Having thus spoken of the hereditary
system, as a bad system, and fu ; je£l to
fcvery possible defrdt ; I now come to the
representative system ; and this Mr. Adam
will find Rated in the second part of
Rights of Man, not only as the best but
as the only theory of government under
which thelibertks of a pecjlecan be pei
inanently secure.
But it is needlefo now to talk of mere
theory, since there is already a government
in full practice ; established upon that theo
ry, or, in other words, upon the Rights
of"Man, and has been so for almost twen
ty years. Mr. Pitt, in a speech of kis,
some short time since, said, "that there
" never did, and never could exill a go
" vernment established upon those rights,
" and that if it beean at nooJi, it would
" end at night." Mr. Pitt is not yet ar
rived at the degree of a fchocl boy in this
species of knowledge. His practice has
been confined to the means of extorting
revenue, and his boast h?s been—how
much ? Whereas the boast of the system
of government that i am speaking of is,
not how much, but how little.
The system of government purely re
presentative, unmixed with any thing of
hereditary nonfevfe, began in America.
I w ill now compare the effetts of that fyf
tem of government, with the fyltem
of government in England, both during
and since the c'ofe of the war.
So powerful is the rcprefentative fyf
tem ; full, by combining and confo'ida
ting all the parts of a country together,
however great the extent ; and fecond'y,
by admitting of none but men properly
qualified into the government, or difmif
ling them if they prove to be otherwise,
that America vfas enabled thereby total
ly to defeat and overthrow all the Ichemes
and projects of the hereditary government
of Engl.i. d againll her. As the tftablifh
rnent of the revolution and independence
of America is a proof of this fa£t, it is
needless to enlarge upon it.
I now come to the co nparStive effect o!
the two fyllems since th- close of the war,
and I rcqueft Mr. Arfain to attend to it.
America had internally fuflained the ra
vage of upwards of seven ) ears of war,
which England had not. l-'ngland fuf
•ained only the expence of the war;
whereas America fu(tained, rot only the
expcnce, but the deltruftion of property
committed by both armies Not a house
was built during that period, and many
thousands were deftroved—The fiims and
plantations along the coast of the country,
for more t :sn a thousand miles, were laid
wafle—Her commerce was annihilated
Her (hips were either taken or had rotted
within he own harbour—The credit ol
her funds had fallen upwards of ninety pel
cent, that is an original hundred pounds
would not fell for ten pounds. In fine,
she was ap arently put back an hundred
years when the. war elofed f which was
not the cafe with England.
But such was the event, that the fame
representative system ot government,
though since better organized, which ena
bled her to couquer, eoabled her also to re
cover; and /he now presentS a more flourifii
ing condition, and a more happy and har
monized foci ty under th t lyitem -of go
vernment, thrn any country in the world
c.m boast tmder any other. Her town:
are rebuilt, much better than before ; het
farms and plantations are in higher improve
ment than ever ; her commerce is spread
over the world, & her funds have risen froir
lef3 than ten pounds the hundred to up
wards of one hundred & twenty. Mr. Piti
and his colleagues, talk of the things that
lnve happened in his boyifn administration,
without knowing what greater things havt
happened elsewhere, and under other fyf.
terns ofgovernrhent.
I next come to state the expence o!
the two systems, as they now Hand in eacf
of th? countries ; but it may firft be pro
per to observe, that government in Ameri
ca is what it ought to be, a matter of ho
nor and tract, and not rr*dc a trade of foi
the purpose of lucre.
The whole amount of the nett taxes ir
England (exclusive of the expence of col
lection, of drawbacks, of seizures and con
demnations, of fines and penalties, of feet
of office, of litigations and informers, vvhicl:
are some of the blefied means ofinforcing
(hem) is feventeeii millions. Of this film,
about nine millioni go for the payment o]
the interest of the national debt, and the
remainder, being about eight millions, is
for the current annual expenees. Thus
much for one fide of the cafe. 1 now come
to the other.
The tfxpence of all the several depart
ments of the general repref. ntative govern
ment of th- United States of America, ex
tending over a space of country near
ly ten times larger than England, ij two
hundred and ninety four thousand, five
hundred and fifty eight dollars, which, at
4/. 6d. per dollar, is 66,2751. 11/. furling
and is thus apportioned :
Expence oj the Executive Department.
1 he office of the presidency,
at which the President re
ceives nothifi? for himfelf, 5&2 C o
Vice President/ f I2 / 0
Numb. 88.
Chief Justice, 900 o
live affocla'te Justices, 3937 to
Nineteen Judges of diftrffia,"
and attorney general, 6873 15
• Legiflatrve department.
Members of congress, at 6 v
dollars (11. 75.) per day;
their secretaries, clerks,
chaplains,' meffsngers,
doorkeepers, &c. 5 d
7"reafury Department.
Secretary, assistant, comptrol
ler, auditor, treasurer, regi
fler and loan office keeper,
in each state, together with
all necefTary clerks, office
keepers, &e. , f C
Department of Stale including F. /fairs.
Secretary, clerks, &c. &c, 1 406
Department of IVdr.
Secretary, clerks, paymas
ters, comm-ffioners Sic. \\6i i 6
Coir.iritftoner for fettling Old Accounts.
The whole hoard, clerks, &c. 2568 15
Incidental and Contingent Expentes.
For fire wood, ftationaly,
printing; See. 4035 ,<y
Total, £>6,275 11
jll account of the inctir,ions of the In
dians on the back fettfemer.ts, Congress
are, at this time, obliged to keep 6000
militia in pay, in addition to a reg'ment
of foot, and a i>attf.ll on of ai tillery,- which
it always keeps ; and this fncfeifes the
expence of the war depar'mcnt to 390,600'
dollars, which is 87,7951 sterling, hut
when peace shall be con-ludcd with the
Indians, the greate.l part of this eipence>
wiilceaf, anJ the total amount of the ex
pence of government, including that ftf thd
srmy, wil) amount to one hundred thou
sand pounds sterling, Ahicht, as has been,
already stated, is but an eighteenth patt of?
the expence of the English government.
I rcqueft Mr. Adam and Mr. Dundaj,
and all tliofe who are talking of confiitu
'ions, and blessings, and kings, and Lo<-ds;
the Lord knows what, to look at this
statement. Here is a fc-t-m and fyrtem
government, that is bett< Organised and
better adminillred than any government in
the world, and that for less than one hun
dred thoufanjpounds per annum, and vet
every member of Congress reteives, a's a
compenfatidn for his time and attendance
on public business, one pound seven fhil
i'.ng per day, which is at the rate of nearly
live hundred pounds a year.
This is a go-Jernmcnt that has nothing
to fear. It needs no proclamations to de
ter people from writing and reading. It
rreeds no political fuperltition to support it.
It was by encouraging difstiffion', and ren
dering the press free upon all fubjefts of
government, that the principles of govern
ment became understood in America, and
the people are now enjoying the present
hi effing under it. You hear of no riots,
tumults and disorders in that country ;
because there exists no' caufc to produce
them. Those things are never the effe£fc
nf freedom, but of restraint, oppression
and excessive taxation.
In America there is not that class 0/
po6r and wretched peop'e thit are so me
meroufly dispersed all over England, and
who are to be told by a proclamotiOny that
they are happy ; and this is irr a great
measure to be acconnffcd for, no: by the
difference of proclamations, but bv the
difference of governments and the differ
ence of taxes Set v. eon that country and thisj
What tilt labouring people of that coun
t'y earn they apply to their own u/Y, and
to the education Of their children'; and do
not pay it away i:i taxes as; fail as they can
earn it, to support court extravagance,
and a long enormous lift of placemen and
pensioners ; and besides this, thty liave
learned the manly doctrine of reverencing
themfeivc, and confcquently 6f fefpefting
each other j and, they bugh St those itna
g nary beings called Kings and Lords,and
all the fraudulent trunipary of courts.When placemen and penfioncrs, or thcfe
who exptft to be such, are lavifli in praise
of a government, it is not a sign of its be-
a good one. Ihe penfion-!i[t alone in
England (fee Sir John Sinclair's hiliory
of the revenue, page 6 of the appendix)
is one hundred and seven thoufaud four
hundred and four pounds, which is more
than'the expences of the whole government
of America amounts to. And lam now
mo: e convinced than before, that the oflcr
that was made to me of a thousand pounds,
for the cupv-right of the second part ot
the Righo of Man, together with the re
maining copyright of the firlt part, was to
have effe&ed, by a quick suppression, what
is now attempted to be done by a prose
cution. The conne&ion which the person
who made that offer, has with the King's
printing-office, may furnifh part of the
means of enquiring into this affair, when
the miniflry fiiall pieafe to bring their pro
se ution to iflue. But to return to my
fubjeft—
I have said in the second part of R'ghts
of Man and I repeat it here, that the fei
vice of any man, whether called King,
President, Senator, Legislator, or any
thing else, cannot be worth more to any
country, in the regular rotine of office,
than ten thousand pounds per annum We
have a better man in America, and more
of a gentleman than any king I ever knew
of, who does not occal'lon even halt that
expence ; for though the salary is fixed at
56251 he does not accept it ; and it is on
ly the incidental expences are p«id out ol
it. The name by which a man is called,
is, of itfelf, but an empty thing. It i:
worth and character alone which can ren
der him valuable, for without these, kings,
.and lords, and prelidents, pre but jingling
names
But without troubling myfelf about
conllitutions of government, 1 have fhewi
in the second part of Rights of Man, thai
an alliance may be fotmed between Eng
land France, and America, and that iht
txpenfes of government in England may
be put back to one million and an half,viz.
Civil exper.ee of government 00c
Army 500,00 c
Navy 500,00 c
1,500,00 c
And even this sum is fifteen times great
cr than the expences of government are in
America ; and it is also greater than the
whole peace establishment of England a
mountea to about an hundred years ago
So much has the weight and oppression ol
taxes encreafed since the revolution, anc
especially since the year 17 14.
To shew that the sum of 500,000!. i:
fuffici. Nt to defray all the civil expences o:
guvernment, I have, in that work, annex
ed the following eilimate for any country
of the fame extent as England.
In the firft place, 300 reprrfentatives,
fairly elected, are fufficient for all the put.
poses to which legifl tion can apply, ant
preferable to a larger number.
If then an allowance, at the rate ol
5001. per an. be made to every representa
tive, deducing for non-attendance the ex
pence, if the whole number attended fix
months, each year would be 75>°®-
The official departments could not
possibly exceed the following
number with the salaries annex
ed, viz.
Th'ec officers at io,oool. each, 30,00 c
Teo do. at 5,000). each, 50,000
Twenty do. at 2.0001 each, 40,00 c
Forty do. at lyoool. each, 40,00 c
Two hundred do. at 50C1I. each, 100,000
Three hundred do at 20 1. each, 60,000
Five hundred do. at tool, each, 50,000
Seven hundred do.at 751, each, 52,500
_ £-4-9?>S OO
If a nation chose, it might tleduft
four per cent, from all the offices, and
make one of twenty thousand pounds per
annnm, and ttile the perlon who should
fill it, King or Majelty, or Madjefty, or
give him any other title.
Taking, however, this-fum of one mil
lion and an 'half, as an abundant supply
for all the expences of government under
any form whatever, there will remain a
surplus of nearly fix million and a half
out of the present taxes, after paying the
int<reft of the national debt ; and I have
shewn in the second part of the Rights
of Man, what appears to me the best mode
of applying the surplus money ; for I am
now speaking of expences and savings, and
not of fyllems of government.
I have in the firlt p ; ace estimated the
poor rates at two millions annually, and
tt ° ff "ifual (!:•*> would be
to abol fh the poor rates entirely (which
would be a favmg of two millions to the
house keepers) and to remit four million
out of the surplus taxes to the poor to be
paid to them in money, in proportion to
the number of children in each family, and
the number of aged persons.
I have ellimated the number of persona
of both sexes in England of fifty years of
age and upwards at 420,000. and have ta
ken one third of this number, viz. 140,000
to be poor people.
To save long calculations, I have taker
70,000 of them to be Upwards of 50 years
jf age, and under 60 ; and the other tc
be 60 yeats, and upwards : and to allow 6
pounds per an. to the former class, and ic
rounds per an. to the latter. The ex
pence of which will be.
70,000 persons at 61. per an. 420,00 c
Do. do. atiol per an. 700,00 c
£.1,120, 00c
There will then remain of the four mil
ions, 2,880,000. I have Hated two diffe
ent methods of appropriating this money.
The one is, to pay it in proportion to the
lumber of children in each family, at the
ate of 3 or 4 pounds per annum for eacli
,-hild ; the other is, to apportion it accord
rig to the expence of living in different
:ountries ; but in either of these cases ii
ivould, together with the allowance to bi
made to the aged, completely takeoff taxe.
from one third of all the families in Eng
land, besides relieving all the other fami
lies from the burthen of poor rates.
The whole number of families in Eng
land, alotting five fou'.s to each family, i
1,400,000. of which I take one third, viz
466,666 to be poor families, who nou
pay four million of taxes, and that the
poorest pays at least four guineas a year 1
and that the other thirteen millions art
paid by the other two thirds. The plan
therefore, as dated in the work, is, ill. tc
remit or repay, as is already stated, thii
film of four millions to the poor, because il
is impoffihle to separate them from tht
others in the present mode of
taxes on articles of consumption ; and, 2d
to abolilh the poor rates, the house ani
window light tax, and to change the com.
mutation tax into a progressive tax,on larg<
estates, the particulars of all which are set
forth in the work,and to which I desire Mr
Adam to refer for particulars. I shall hert
conteqt myfelf with faying, that, to a towr
of the population of Manchester, it wil
make a difference in its favor, comparec
with the present slate of things, of upward;
of 50,000 pounds annually, and so in pro
portion to all other places throughout tin
nation. This, certainly, is of moreconfe
quence, than that the fame sums should be
colkdtcd to be afterwards spent by riotoui
and profligate courtiers, and in nightly re
vels at the Star and Garter tavern, Pa!
Mall. •,
I will conclude this part of my lettei
with an extract from the second part o
Rights of Man which Mr. Dundas (e
man rolling i luxury at the expence o
the nation) has branded with the epithel
of "wicked."
"By the operation of this plan, the pool
law 3, those inftrument# of civil torture,
will be fuperceded, and the watleful ex
pence oflitigation prevented. The hearts
of the humane will not be (hocked by
ragged and hungry children, and persons
of seventy and eighty years of age beg
ging for bread, The dying poor will not
be dragged from place to place, to breathe
their last, as a reprisal of parish upon parish
Widows will have a maintenance for their
children, and not be carted away on the
death of their husbands, like culprits and
criminals, and children will no longer be
conlidered as encreafing the diltrefTes ol
their parents. The haunts of the wretch
ed will be known, because it will be tc
their advantage, and the number of pet
ty crimes, the offspring of poverty and
distress, will be lcfTened. The poor, as
well as the rich, will then be interefled in
the support of government, and the cause
and apprehension of riots and tumu'ts will
cease. Ye who fit in ease, and folate
yourfelf in plenty, and such there are in
Turkey and Rnflia, as well as in England,
and who fay to yourselves. are we not well
off? Have ye thought of these things?
When ye do, ye will cease to speak and
feel for yourselves alone."
R.ghts of Man. Part 11. pap-e 136.
As er this remiflion of four millions be
made, and the poor rates and house and
window light tax be abolilhed, and the
commutation tax changed, there will (till
remain nearly one million an i an half of
surplus taxTS ; and as, by an alliance be ■
tween England, Fiance and America, ar
mies and navies will, in a great measure,
be rendered unneceffafy,|and as men, who
have either been brought lip in, or long ha
bited to, those lines of life, are it ill citi
zens of a nation in common with the relt,
and have a right to participate in all plans
of national benefit, it is stated in that work
(Rights of Man, part II.) to apply annu
ally 507,0001. out of the surplus taxes to
this purpose, in the following manner :
To 15,000 disbanded soldiers 3s. per week,
clear of deductions, during life 117,000
Additional pay to the remaining sol
diers per annum - - 19,500
To the officers of the dif«anded corps,
during life, the fame sum of 1.17,000
To 15,000difbanded sailors, 3s. per
week during life - - 117,000
Additional pay to remainingfailors 19,003
To the officers of the disbanded part
of the navy, during life - 117,000
£. 507,000
Tile limits to which it is proper to confine
his letter, will not admit of my entering
uto further particulars. 1 address it to
Vlr. Duhda.% fcfecaufe iie took the lead in the
lebate, and he wlfhes, I suppose, to appear
:anfpicuous ; but the purport of it is to ju,'-
:ify rayfelf from the cliarge which Mr.
Adam has made.
This gentleman, as has been observed in
he begin ding of this letter, conliders the
writings of Harrington, More, and Hume,
as jultifiable and legal publications, because
they reaibned by comparison, though in so
doing they shewed plans and fyftem< of go
vernment, not only different from, hut pre
ferable to. that orEngland ; and he accuses
me of endeavoring to confufe, instead of
producing a system in the room of that
which I had reasoned ajjainft; whereas the
fait is, that 1 have not only reasoned by com
parison of the representative fyliem against
the hereditary fyltem, but I have gone fur
ther ; fori have produced an initance of a
government established entirely on the re
presentative system, under which greater
happinefi is en oyed, much fewer taxe; re
quired, and much higher credit is eftablilh
ed, than under the system of government
in England. The funds in England have
risen since the war oily, from 541. to 9 1.
and tney have been down, since the procla
mation, to 871. whereas the funds in Ame
rica rose in the mean time from iol. to 1201.
His charge againlt me of '• destroying e
very principle of subordination," is equally
as groundless, which even a'fingle para
graph from the work will prove, and which
I fliall here quote :
" formerly, when divisions arose reflect
ing governments, recourse was had to the
sword, and a civil war ensued. That sa
vage custom is exploded by the new system,
and recourse is had to a nat.onal conven
tion. Discussion, and the general will, ar
bitrates the question, and to this, private o
piniori yields with a good grace, and order
is preserved uninterrupted." Rights o;
Man, Part 11. p. 173.
T hat two different charges fliould b«
brought at the fame time, the one by a mem
ber of the legislature, for not doing a cer
tain thing, and the other by the attorney
general for doing it, is a strange jumble ol
contradictions. I have now jultified my
felf, or the work rather, against the firft, bj
stating the cafe in this letter, and the justi
fication of the oilier will be undertaken 11
its proper place. But in any cafe the wort
will go on.
I lhall now conclude this letter, witl
faying, that the only objection 1 found a
gainlt the plan, and principles contained ii
the second part of the Rights of Man whei
I had written the book, was, that they wouli
beneficiallyintereft at least n ; nety-nine per
sons out of every hundred througlvout the
nation, and therefore would not leave fuf
ficient room for men to ait from the diret
aud dilinterefted principle of honor ; bu
the prosecution now commenced has ftjr
tunately removed that objection, and thi
approvers and protestors of that work nov
feel the immediate impulfeof honor, addei
to that of national iutereft.
I am, Mr. Dundas,
Not your obedient humble servant,
But the contrary,
THOMAS PAINE.
Foreign Intelligence by. a late arrival at
New-Tori.
PARIS, June 13.
A letter li om Rochelle, dated the 2d in
ftant, state;, that the preceding Monday wa
the day fixed upon by the Proieftants, th
Jacobins, and the constitutional priests, ti
drive from that piace all the priests who hai
not consented to take the oaths. 111 th
morning tw u battalions of national guard
arrived, and every thing remained prett
quiet tiil three o'clock, \\ hen a mob aflem
bled in the Rue des Augujhns. By degree
the people became inflamed, and at length
armed with sabres, aflailcd the church
Those within fide, endeavoring to fly, wc-r
feverelv handled, and two men were tro
to death. They afterwards went to tii
house of Mr. Trimoulle, whom they wou'.i
have killed, had it not been for the Mayoi'
interposition.
The municipality formed a decree, b
which it was ordered, that every prieit vvhi
had not taken the oaths, fhoulcl leave the
department in three days, or to be driven
from thence by public force.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
Monday, June 11.
Rer.gnations.—The minister at war inform
ed tlie Assembly by letter, that when the
regiment of infantry, cidevant, Newcaftrie,
palled through Lyons, fix officers gave in
their resignations, and demanded pafl'ports,
which had been granted by the municipali
ty, who, however, took care to record on
the face of them, " that they had abandon
ed their country, during a moment of dan
ger."
The soldiers of the regiment had seized
on this occasion to teftify their patriotism,
and hadrenewed the civic oath.
AN ACTION WITH THE AIJSTRIANS. -
Letter from La Fayette to the Minis
ter at War.
Enlrenchcd Camp at Mauieuge, June 11 —Fourth
Year of Liberty.
" I now fit down, fir, to fend you an ac
count of the affair near Maubeuge. The
day before yefterriay, our light troops had a.
skirmish with those of the enemy, in which ■
the latter loft three meu, and a few on both
fides were wounded.
" The enemy attacked my advanced
guard this morning, which they doubtless
hopsd to surprize : but M. Gouvion, who
was informal of their intentions in good
time, sent off the ba'ggage towards Mau
beuge, and began a fkirmith during his re
treat, in which his infantry was continually
covered with hedges, and the enemy's co
lumns fuffered greatly frpm our artillery,
, and particularly from four pieces, d' Artili
erit a Chevat. under Captain Barrois.
" The 3d and nth regiments of Chas
seurs, and the 2d of HufTars, manoeuvred
most admirably ; the latter cut up a de
tachment of Hulans which advanced against
it.
" A violent storm, that prevented us
from hearing the signal guns, retarded our
knowledge of the attack. The moment
intelligence of it was received in our camp,
a column of infantry under M. Ligneville,
and another of cavalry under M. Tracy,,
were conduced by M. Narbon, towards
the enemy's left flank, while the reserve,
led on by M. Mauberg, advanced to the
succour of the advanced guard.
" I immediately ordered nine troops to
advance, and the enemy, after abandoning
the field of battle to us, and also part of
their killed aud wounded, retreated to their
former camp.
"We marched upwards of a league be
yond the ftatio 1 Formerly occupied by the
advanced guard, which lefumed all its for
mer polls.
11 t fliould have felicitated myfelf with
the little success accruing from this attack,
if it had not by a most cruel fatality been
the means of fnatchingfrom his country one
of the best of citizens, from the army, one
of the molt ufeful officers, and from myfelf,
a friend of no less than fifteen years stand
ing. f mean M. Gouvion, whose virtuous
life was terminated by a shot from a cannon.
He is bewailed by the foldiers,and by all the
army, and indeed by every body conscious
of the value of pure patriotism, an unalter
able faith. and tiie happy union of courage
and abilities. I speak not of mv personal
chagrin on this occasion, my friends will pi
ty me.
" The loss of two lieutenant-colonels of
the department of Cote d'Or, also call for my
just regret ; one was M Cazotte, aged 75,
who had seen 50 years of service : he was
killed ill the late affair, while assisting M.
Gouvion to save a difmounfed cannon.
" Tl>e remainder of our loss consists in
25 wounded ; the number of the killed is
inconsiderable. The en ;ny has fuffered
much more conftderably than 11s. We have
made some prisoners. and 1 have received
no account of any being taken on our fide.
" This is the most exact relation that I
am able toranfmit you, previous to the re
. ceipt of official and authentic accounts.
(Signed) "LAFAYETTE,
" General of the Army."
The AflemMy inflantly ordered the com
mittee of public inftrli&ion to bring in a
report, in what manner the efleem and gra
titude of the nation might be teftified to
wards the memory ofM. Gouvion.
—mi . ■
WORCESTER, Augtfft 23.
ExtraEl of a Utterfrom a patriotic and difiinguifh
ed literary character, near London, to his corref
p;ndcnt in the fate of Nexu-Hampshire, dated
May 2, 1792.
; "It gives me the most sincere pleasure to
• 1 hear, as I frequently do, of the growing
1 prosperity of the United States. Long may
I that prosperity continue; and lo:;g may
• your re'peftable seminary of learning, with
every Similar in North-Ameri
■ ca, continue to participate in the general
welfare of that country, to which I have
! ever been a most ardent \v&R 'wittier.
, " Let me no* not clcrfe this letter without
congratulating you, as a friend to the best
• interests of mankind., on the great fiep that
I hath been taken in France toward the dif
■ ftifion of general freedom over every liabi-
I ; n:ble part of the globe. May no unfortu
, j uateturn ut affairs, 110 miurrpuc pre
vent this glorious blofi'om of the fat red tree
• of liberty (from perfecting its choicest
1 1 fruit !««It pains ff», *lo1W»*r, H» add, tliM f
am not without foine appreheufious, from
the powerful union of the neighbouring
despots, who are brcathin;-, out th>r<itrnw/;i
andJlaughter against a brave people, who arc
struggling for the maintenance of thofc
bleflings which all men have an undoubted
natural and unalienable right: In aflerting
which, Americafet them so noble an exam
ple !"
BALTIMORE, August 24.
To the Public.
On the (irlt Monday of October next von
are to appoint your Delegates toCongrels:
This may be a matter of more confequencc
than perhaps you may imagine; and it be
hoves every voter to guard ;igain(t a particv
larftt of men, generally known by the appel
lation of Spkcui.ators. You will find
there is one of those characters put up for
every DiftriQ in the Union. Invidious tompa
rifoiis arc odious to me ; therefore I hope
thi Hint will be I'uflicient wah Hinc ; (or,
believe me, their interrjl is not with yours.
A PLANTER.
) PII 11. AI)EL i* H lA.
Septkmbkr I, 179 a.
" On Tncfilay the ".i(t inft. arrived at Bof
tou, the fthooner Harmony, Capt. Drew,
from lioifrdeaux. By letetrs received pei
this arrival, dated June 19, we are inform
ed that the young king of Hungary and B«-
hemia was dead, (uppofed by poise
there were commotions in PrilSa, which ii
was thought would operate in favour of tilt
French revolution —That aflignats have ap
preciated from <>;, to .40 per tc.it. dilcouiu :
that, notwithstanding, bulinefs was alinoll
ftagu ited, and the nation fecnied in a ttau
of anxiety for some great event—That de
letions from the old troops of Franc* hat;
become more common than heretofore,
owing to bad management in the conimifla
ry and Biiarter-mauer'u departments; but
that the spirit of the people was very far
from being in the lealt depreflcd.
Doctor Joseph PrielHy. so well known b>
his valuable writings, and efpccially for hi:
attachment to the French couftitutioil, fenl
his foil, in June lalt, to preftnt his relpeCt'
to the National Aflenibly of France, with i
request for his foil's adoption as a citizen ol
Franae. The young man was admitted tc
the bar, and in a discourse written with e
nergy, alked to be adopted by the natior
and become a French citizen. He was ;ul
mitted to the honors of tl:e fitting amid!
loud plaudits. A motion was then mad<
in purfimuce of the requi lt, and the com
mittee of Irgiflation were ordered to repor
in three days, the draft of a decree for tha
purpose
We hear from North-Carolina, that pre
par at ions are tnakinj to ercft a univerlity
near the centre of that Hate.
The libel bill, in England, has at lengtl
been determined on in their parliament
The right of deciding 011 all cates of libel
is now taken from the judges, and left t<
juries; so that Peter Pindar, Mr. Paine, aiu
others in their lituation, will probably conn
off better than has generally Lten expected
A writer in a Vermont paper, in an elec
tioneering piece, lays, "I remember, wliei
the judges of the county court s were fir<
to be appointed, a certain would-be judge
in one of the counties, was alked, Wh<
would be appointed judges ? He 1 citdlly no
minatedfour (there were to be Jive at tha
time)—he could not name a man qualilici
for the fifth. Being alked, If he vvouUl no
himfelf accept the appointment? betreel;
consented—but the people did not appro\
the nomination. This fame man would
no doubt, have thought, thai many of thof
who were nominated, were fit for gover
nors —generals—any thing, which did no
interfere with his present ambition."
The Grand fury of Baltimore county
after having examined the jail, observe
" That they found the prifoneri (debtors am
criminals) thrust in together in one promif
cuous croud without diltinftion, or refpfi
to perfou or character ; that a cultom pre
vails in this unhappy manlioii (as well as ii
molt others of the fame kind) of piuliliu|
each new guell with a sum of money, term
ed garnish, and on failure of payment t<
(trip the unfortunate stranger ot hi cloath
ing, which, ill the told season of the year
may prove an evil of a veryJatous nature
and if poflible, ought to be fupprcifed.
" The jury observe with plcalnre, tha
V thgaol i: kept as clean as the nature o
the cafe will well admit ; and that there i
no complaint among the prisoners on at
count of (hurt allowance, or ijnwholefoun
food.
"The jury also conceive, that the pre
sent gaol i:> too (mall to admit of a fuitabW
diltributlon of the unfortunate prisoners
agreeable to their (ex, characters, and can
fes of confinement. They therefore bri
leave to repreient it as an objeit worthy o
legiilative Attention."
Extra/1 oj a letter from Amjlentam, June it.
V. An express ai 1 vccl tin ■ 11101 ning at oni
of our prim: pal commercial houses, bring
the news, a: interelting as unexpected, ol ;
revolution 111 one of the principal courts.o
Germany. 11l consequent eof the difcon
tents that broke out against the fyllcm pur
filed for some time, the (bvereigu diliuijlei
two miyilters who enjoyed his confidence
on a foot'rna, of* thf trtoft intimate friend
(hip. A third perfoi), honored with hi . af
fection, has, it is said, quitted the capital.
Till s event, if it Ihould prove true in all ii"
circuinftances, would be favorable for Po
land, who I'eemed to be left to herlelf; and
the league against Franc* would be conli
clerably weakened."
On this article we have only to observe,
that the Leyden Gazette, from which it is
taken, cautiously avoids naming the court
of Berlin, the court certainly alluded to,
which is ealiiy accounted for by the con
nexion between the king of Pruflia and the
Stadtholder : that the revolution mean, the
removal of Bilhopfwerden, and his party,
from tiie administration , and that the prin
cipal consequence will be a complete change
in the lyftcin of politics, the protection of
Poland against Ruilia, and the diflolutionof
the concert with Auftrin against France.
It was not likely to be inserted in the
Leyden Gazette without fonie foundation ;
but we have no direst affiirai.ee of its au
thenticity.
The court of Vienna is said at length to
have granted permifllon to the French emi
grants to embody them(clv<againft their
country, and to have advanced tbein a sum
of mom y for that purpose, on condition ol
submitting their military operations to the
direction of the Austrian commander in
chief.
During the march of La Fayette's army,
two of the private foldicrs attempted to
excite a mutiny, by crying out that they
were betrayed, and requiring to know whi
ther they were inarching. They were in
stantly l'ei'/.fd, tried by a drum head court
martial, condemned, and executed in light
of the army.'
A writer in a Virginia paper make; the
following observations in an adclrfcfs to Mr.
Hanks, of Richmond :—" 1 am equally a
larmed with yonrfelf at the proceedin sol
the federal government ; and here, 1 fear,
neither the voice of the people is attended
to, or their intercUs confultvd. The ru
lers appear to me to possess a quite different
interell from tha. ol the penple ; if this be
the c»l'e, (and I fear 1 am not deceived)
tyranny mud inevitably enliie. The evil
we fuller from the general government,
hive become infbppoftttble; an excise is
laid, an iniquitous and Qppreflive tax ; op
preffivr, because :is a tax on labour; and
iniquitottl, because it is a partial one : A
funding system is edabliflied calculated to
enrich a few (peculators on the small pit
tance of the soldier, who had aright to ex
peit from Gongrefs fonie sympathy, and
from whoft li i'pofed integrity, he could
apprehend no wrong—An assumption of the
state debts has taken place, an unjust law,
as the remonstrance of the Virginia afl'enibly
will evince. Lib frty dwells not in that
country, where an excise is fuffered ; where
a national debt Is looked upon as a national
blelling ; and where the liberty of the pref
is rdtriited. Our taxes luve now become
hurtheufome, and rendered perpetual ; not
withstanding this, were the causes which
produced thnn just, there is too much vir
tue in Americans to complain : Submiflion.
however, to wicked and unjust laws, doe
not prove a right to pa(s then). Of two e
vils it is molt ndvilcable to choose the teaft :
submission is fomctimes a Idler evil rliau op
polition ; but when our fubmiflton is incon
sistent with the liberty and interest of the
country, our duty commands us to oppose.
In such a fitu-ition, the condui! of a people
ought to be influenced by a regard for their
freedom and happiness. The experience
of every country clearly deinonltraies, that
arbitrary power once eitablllhed, even ovei
the bravell of nations, they quickly degene
rate into mean and wretched Haves."
Intelligence of the devth cf th- King of Hun
gary is received both by flic way of l.ondon and
Prance. Wc cannot, however, give it to oui
r^adi-vauthentic hut as an cvuit extremely
probable.
From the St. Chrijlophcr's Gflxctte.
M A I) R A S, March i.
This moment the important Ibtclllgentc
of a iieace with Tippoo Inr. been announ
ced to tl - public under a discharge of si
guns from tl".' wall of the fort—a peace that
w hilll it rcliores the long wiOicd for tran
quility of our pofleflions in India, feenres
rile moll honorable advantages to the Bri
tilli empire.
The following particulars arc said It:
form the preliminary articles : Tippoc
cede:; to the alii.' , one half of li'; -domini-
ons, the ('election to he left to their o\\ u
choice, and be made from t! >fc ;•••; t'. thai
lie contiguous to the territories or the rel
peflive parties ; ami all below the '.haur,
both on this fule the J'eninlula and un the
Malabar coafl, to be poffefTed by the ccni
pauy.
Tippoo to pay 3 Crores, and 30 lacks o1
rupees to the allied urmie , a-, a reimburse
ment of the expeuce ol the war, ami to re
leal'e all prison, 1 s in In. polli-ilii'ii of ev > 1 y
dclcription, fulqetts of Great-Britain, w itli-
OUt reserve.
Hia two foils are to remain as hoftagc in
the (i'arnatic for the due oblervance of the
treaty in all it, parts.
On the niorniii;; of the the yowic
princes arrived in camp, in purl'tiaiicc ol
the preliminary articles of the treaty. —
The* were conducted to the ttnts pitched
for their reception.
Captain Weill with his battalion lias the
charge of the young princes.
The following are the general orders tf
fued by Karl Cornwallis mi this great occa
sion.
CAMP. SERINGAPATAM,
1 tbruary 24, 1792.
Lord Cornwallis has great pleafnre in an
nouncing to the army, that preliminaries of
peace have been fettled between the con
federate powers and Tippoo Sultan, con
taining conditions highly honorable and ad
vantageous to the Company, and the Bri
lilli nation ; and in confitleration of the un
common valor and liimiiels that ha", been
Ihewn manifeftly by the ollicers and soldiers
of the king's and company's troops, during
the whole course of the war, it is his lorcl
(liip's Intention to take upon hiinfelt to ol -
der a handsome gratuity to be distributed to
them in the fame proportion apprize mo
ney, from the sum that 'l'ippoo has bound
himfelf to pay to the company. It has been
agreed that from this day hostilities fliall
. cafe on both fides, but the army is not on
ly to retain its prefcnt pods till further or
ders—but his lordlhip likewifc enjoins in
the (trongeft mtitmer, that 110 troops nor
persons belonging to Tippoo fliall be allow
ed to pais the piquet and approach the en
lampment without apallpon or perm'dlion
regularly notified, and in general, that the
fame vigilance and ftrirtneft that has been
cullotnary during the war, lhall be observed
by all officers and soldiers in the execution
of eve ry military duty, until the troop
fliall arrive at the poll that lhall be allotted
10 them, in the company's territories. His
lordlhip thinks it almost unneceil'ary to de
lire the army to advert, that moderation in
luccefs, is no left expected from brave men,
than gallantry in ait ion, and he trulls that
Ihe oliicer and foldler in his army, will not
only be incapable of committing violences
in any intercourse that may happen between
them and Tippoo's troops, but that they
will even abstain from making use of any
kind of an infnlting exprellion towards an
enemy now sUbdued and humbled.
To the Freemen of Pennsylvania.
FELLOW CITIZENS,
THILKK ate ccitain duties which we all owe
to our country—among thole duties is the
one which now operates upon me, that of d dar
ing my obi nion, with a republican 11 cedom. on
the present great political concern. The questi
on before you embraces every thing important,
incllimable, and dear to an American, and is <>l
a nature, extremely dillinfl from that, in which
it lias hitherto been viewed —It docs not appear
to me to be a quellion of federaltjm or an'/Jedcr
cdlfm ; bat it is the. Trrajm yof the United Statci
a -ainjlthe pecpu—lt is, whether the TreafurJ
th.il! lie paramount to the people, or whether 11
fliall it's proper Jlatiim allotcd it in the govern
ment of our 1 oniitiy'. I lay paramount to the
people ; for by making reports, ptevioully to
the origin of a bill, draughting bills, and entail
in;; for ever an enormous debt upon the citizen!
of tlii United States, the Treasury is exalted a
bove youthio' your reprcfentalivei and mar
flial'it under it's banners,a phalanx of fpeculatori
who are uflifling in torgrng endlcls chains lor
pulleiity—you lurcly, my Icllow citizens, will
not subscribe to that more than machiaveliar,
maxim, that " a public debt, is a public bltjjin
and content to drainyouifelvel of the vital Huh:
of rite nation to prepare a draught of perpetual
cafe lor fpeculatori and llrangeis to your coun
try, Tlu- influence which the treasury has on
our government is truly alarming! it already
forms a center, around which our political lylleni
is beginning to revolve; and lhall we give 1111-
pulse rotlii:. attra&ion by delegating men to C»n
gtefi, who fliall give energy to the present cor
-1 upt principles ? The fUte of our country ii cri
tical, and the prelent moment big wiih the mol
important conftqucnccs. 'I bo' in tile infancy
ol a government we hav< begun, and arc Icckin,
10 engraft upon 1) all the vice ol profligate anc
debauched age. We aio said to b ■ a tree peo
ple ; but can that people be tree, who have bonne
themfelvcs and their pollenry jut' ever ? If, a:
has been Minted, ,1 public debi is " .1 public blel
sing," Grcat-lJiiuin 111 oft be the h.ipp 1c 11 nut 10r
uponcariiii but 1 believe it wili scarcely be de
nied, that hoc debt is like a mill-lion* arount
the neck ot her citizens, which will linally tir 1 1<
tire in 10 the bottom of dellrufclion Jo noneis thr
prefen 1 period ol more consequence tb.in to lln
mecbame ; alrc.irly have monopolies beeiicll.il)-
lilhed at his expencc, and lliould the plain ol thr
Secretary of the frealury be executed, t hey wil
t ngulph within then dclli uMive bolom every
bfeful art. Tho 1 he might not piopole amo
1 ojjoly of thought, 1 should not let 1 lurprue.
Ihoulil the prelent meafuics be pursued, at ;
monopoly, at lr all, ol the publication ol tl.ein.
What will be the fate of any private manufac
tuier, who (ball fee a national manufactory riling
!■(• exillcntv, whole woikmrn fliall leceive the
fmiltsol government, and have exclusive privi-
I , In. h.r 1 ' mptn hi 1 111111 militia <1111 ■. .■'■ e.
Js not this finking at the rootofhis fublillence ?
Fellow-citizens, beware—beware 1 repeat how
you marflial yourlclves under iheJbUttditlb.m
ncrs of 1 lie lie.tlury by .111 ele.'lioii ol men, who
lhall adopt the opinions of its iccrolaty iij.'on hiifl,
who lavor the pit'icnl pernicious lundin,-, fylleio,
and w I o .i, e (In klci:. 101 moiiopoht s ; but let
your choice lall upoii lut:h ay im> nor intcrefledin
Ipcculatinri, who air independent and lepublic.in
in piinc aei! wi I not be the ciratoics ol .1
minilt 1 ; v bo are enemies to exr lulive piivile
ge ~lb . (1 . iii.ihiN, and will pu, tile eveiy
iuII mi ■ 1 10 i:..ike \eu piulpcious and h 'ppy.
Aug. ;,t. ' iiUU'l US.
Fot the National CAzrrTt'.
REMAKKS on a late authentic Document, pub*
lifted by the Treasury Department, under
thefignutureof ]oSV.\>H Noußsk, Re/sister.*
Ttlr. object of this publication seems to
be, to impress the public miiul with a
belief, that utuler the present aclminiftra
tion of its fifcal concerns, the public debt has
been afttially reduced to the amount of
1,8.15,2r7 dols. and 4J cents ; and that the
sum of 397,024 Jols. and 15 cents remain*
to be applied to the fame object. That this
is not the cafe, but that the public debt, in
(lead of being diniiniflied one farthing, lias
been really augmented to the amount of
upwards of one million and a half dollars, lince
the present adminiltration commenced, will
1 think manifeftly, appear by a reference to
a few plain facts and documents not less au
thentic than the one ligtled by Mr. Nourfe.
The Secretary of the Treasury in a re
port to Congress, dated 23d January, 1792,
(hites that the whole expenditures or de
mands against the government from the be
ginning of the year 179.1, to the end of tile
year 1792, amount to dols. 7,088,197. 74
That the amount of the nett
prod ufl of tile public revenues
during the years 1791 & t"/y2 is 7» 0a 9»755-
Leaving as a deficiency against
the government dols. 52,442-
It apears by Mr. Nourfe'sdocument, that
the whole amount of the revenues of the
United States from the time the firtt impost
law took elfeit, which was the ill «t Augult
1789) until the 31ft. Dec. 1790, was
dols. 3,026,070. OS
That the total demands up
on that, agreeable to the ap
propriations made byCongrefs,
exclusive of any interest 011 thtT
public debt, was - 1,687,194.81
Leaving a surplus in favour of
the revenue, of dols. 1,3381875-84
It appears too, from Mr. Nourfe's docu
ment, that the treasury department claims
credit for having disposed of the laid surplus
of 1,338,875. 84, so as to purchase and re
deem to the amount of 1,845,81 7- 4 ■ of the
public debt, and to have left 397,024 dollars
and 15 cents to be applied to the lame ob»
jett.—He it so ; I admit the faftin itsfullelt
force—but what follows ? That it the trea
sury claims credit lor the tile and whole a
niount of the revenue of the United States,
from its sommcnccment 011 the Ift of Alia.
1789, to the 31 ft of Dec. 1790, towards l<M -
fening the public credit ; so it ougjit to be
debited with the whole amount of ihe in
terell, that accrued ou the public debt, du
ring the fame period, which by the treasury
returns amounts to 4,036,959 dols. and 19
cents. lam aware that in objection to this
it will be laid, that agreeable'to the ast of
Congress. no interei't was payable 011 the
public debt until January 1791 .—Granted j
but what became of this interelt lias ic
been paid ? No.—Does it remain to be
paid ? Yes.—Was it added 10 and made a
part of the principal of the public debt,
thereby encreafing that debt to the amount
of 4,036,359 dols. and 19 cents, iu addition
to its former principal? Yes. —Did nor.
the Secretary of the Treasury himfelf
propose that it fhotild be so added ? Yes.
—Is it not therefore an efficient ast of
his administration, and can he now claim
credit witfi the public, np'>n the fallaciou
idea of Having bona Jidt reduced the pub'a
debt upwards of two millions, when, as J
have fliew 11 above, he has produced an ac
1 nal addition to the public debt of mor
than one million and a half ot dollars :
A fiinple Hate of the cafe with the 1 rca
fury department (lands thus —
I) F. 11 I T. dols. cts.
For the amount of interest
Which accrued on the public
debt between the ill of Aug.
1759, Hiul 31 fV Dec. 1790 4,oifv3s<>- '!>
For the deficiency of revenue
to answer the demands of go
vernment in 1791, mid 1 52,412• 4'
Dollars 4,088,801.6
(: R F. l) 1 T.
By the amount of public
debt redeemed and difcliarged
out ofthe surplus of the reve
nue ariflng between iff Aug.
1789, and 31ft Dec. 1790 1,845,217. 42
By balance of surplus re
maining on hand of dollars
397,024. 15. and which may
probably redeem - 500,000
By a deficiency against the
treasury department, lince its
efkabliflunent, which form an
actual addition to tin public
debt - - i,743>3*4- 4/
Dollars 4,0^8.801. 6 f
That the farts and conclusions above men
tioned are just, and iliat it is 11 fad and fen
oil: in.ill tii.it die public debt !i r c-ricreafrd,
and is encrealing in the hands of its present
admiiiiftraKU" , i' alio niauifell so two ini
porl ant classes of men in Ihe coinftltinlt], 1
mean tin' MEKCH ■' I 5 and FAitMI'RS,
by the jivefrnt amount and eucrealiflg
weight ofthe duties of Impost and l'\cifo.
Auj'.. 30, 179!. MKKCATOK r
* Set tbr Lajl Page.PHILADELPHIA,
A U O U S T 29,
TflE following r.uthent:.: Documents refpeft
ing the Piogrefj which has been rate by the
ptrefent Government of lie United States, to-
Vdi ds extin Mtifhirig the Debts contiafclcd un
dfer the former Government, will, it is pre
fum.ed, be very acceptable 10 lire people of
•he United butts; and ii is hoped, that the
different Editors of Newlgapers will give the
Information.the general Circulation which its
Importance menu.
1.
Tieajury Dipartmefit,
Office, 14th Augufl, i 792.
SIR,'
I HAVE the honor to enclole an aiffrafc't
flaiement of the debt incurred by the late.gov
etnmeru, ;.nd which hat been paid off'from the
funds ol the present government,- amounting to
one million eight hundred and fortv-live thou
iaud two hundred ard feveuteen dolllirs fouy
twoccnti ; but this lum will be cncreafed, when
the balance ot three hund«ed and ninety-seven
ihouland twenty-four dollars thirteen cents re
maining to be appropnated in the farther pu.-
chafeolthe public debt, shall bi applied, and
Which more particularly appears by the fubjoin
cd ffatenienr.
With every fetttiment of the higheff refpefl,
I have the honor to be, Sir.
You: moll obedient,
And nio(l humble feivant,
JOSEPH NOURSE, Reg.
Honorable Alexander Hamilton, Efq ;
Secretary oj the Treajury.
11.
Statement of the Balance which remains to be appli
ed, 111 the Jhrther Purchofcs of the Public D^bt.
By the ast palfed j 2th August, 179 c, making
provision for the reduction of the Public
Dc-bt, fefction id, it is enatted, that all such
lurplus of the produtft of the duties ariling
fiotn impofland tonnage to 3 111 Decembti,
1790, after latijfying the feveial appropriati
ons therein lliail be applied to the
purcliale ol the public debt:
the p rpduct of lai.i duties,
were, Dci/ars, 3,026,070 65 1-3
The total appropriations were* 1,687,194 81
Tht surplus fund to 3 iff De
cember, 1790, Dollars, 1,338,875 84 1-8
Deduct the amount paid for
dollars 1,456,743 38-100
of the public debt extin
guished as per abft; a£t, 941,851 69
Leaves a balance which re
mains to be applied to the
iarther purchafcs ot the
public debt, 397,024 15 i -3
in.
Analjlrafl. Jlatemclitof the fnm of th:
Public Debt, atfooj the payment from th Funds
of the pnjintgQternment oj certain claims,
which incut red by the late
Government.
Purehafesof (he Public Debt : Dollars.
Amount thereof excinguilhed 1,456,743 38
Warrants drawn by the Board
of treasury under the late
government, and which have
been dilcharged in purfu—
ance ol the att of Congress
of 29th September, i ; S g . 157,789 94
Civil hit : for various pay
ments made upon accounts
which originated under the
late government, 25,768 50
Wai Department, being for
arreaiagts ol pay due to sun
dry officers of the army, uud
for provifionsfurnilhi-.d, 7,308 40
Abraham Skinner, late Com
miflary.Geneial of Prifori
crs, for the boaid of Ameri
can prifoneu of war, at
Long-Hland ; appropriated
by Congrtft, pet then att
pated 12th August, 1790. 38,68313
Old accounts, viz.
Rcprcfentativfs OT
Mons. Debou
dray, balance of »
pay, 2,977
Do. Hon. John
Lawrens, his (al
ary on an embas
sy to the Fiench
Court, 6,017 3/
Francis Dana, sala
ry on an embassy
to the Court of
St. Peteifourg, 2,410 3
Ben lon, i';nith and
Barker, their ex
pcnl'cs attending
the embaikation
of the Britilh
li oops at New-
York, i,OCd
His molt Chriflian
Alajelly, formili
taryaudordnance
ilores supplied
the Anieiicau
lljips of war 111
the French Weft
indies, a), 029 68
Olivet Pollock for
balance due him
for {'applies at
New - Orleans
with intcred there
on, 111 conformi
ty with the lev-
Cral acts ot Con-
108,605
Mons. Gardotjni &
Son, balance due
ior I'upplies fur
niihed in Spain, 502 86
— 150,14
Bills o." exchange, which had
been drawn on foreign
coimniflioners,and not paid
by them, 4> I ®s 5°
Timothy Pickering,late quar
tcr-niaiter-geneial, being on
account ol the appropria
tion of 40,000 dollars, paf
ied July 1, 1790, 2,077 89
Grants of Congrcfs, viz.
John M'Cord,, per
a6l of
of ift July,
*79°> 7*
Jehoiakim M'Tock
fin per ast of
Congress of the
&6th March
1790, 120
Baionde Glaubeck
per ast of 29th
September, 1789, 140 26
Seth Harding, per
ast i lth August,
1790. 200
Caleb
to, ditto, 348 57
« t,i 18 54
Dollars, 1,845,217 42
Trcajuiy Department,
Regiftei's Othce, August jjj, 1792.
JOSEPH NOUK.SK, Reg.
GIBRALTAR, May 10.
Affairs in B.nLary still wear an uhfettled ap
p«arance«
iiix oi the l?l" EmperorVfons have been |'ro
c .aimed in vaiijus parts of the empiie (Sidi Ma
nomets) each aUaid to llnke the fn lt bl -w, while
llieir rniteraDie country is tailing a victim to the
wild lanaticifm brutality ot an uncivilised una
ungoverncd multitude. The roadb have been in
felted vwth affiiiinaanu robber6that tiavclling vvas
totally impracticable j and even Tangiers the con
luis hardly think thcmfclveb faft-* in their houfc*
and uudif t!ic protection ot iheir color?.
The cruelties which have been excrcifed b)
Muley Yciid were so numerous,- fa enormous, an J
so unprecedented,* that the people are become
very cautious about the choice ok anoiher Sover
eign, and perhaps chey never will have lo favora
ble an opportunity aa the present of actompliihing
a revolut on in their government- iiut they au
too blind and ignorant to avail thenfelvea or ic—
it is fortunate ror this garrison that their troubles
do not alfv'dt our fuppiy* We still continue t<> re
ceive pro\ .fions from Birb'aryj and thote tolera
bly reaio „bie.
v When he iound that his wound* Were mortal,
and tha; he mull die, he ordered his black guaid
co put to death "7*ol 000 of his fubjeCis in tu a
bioou i 10/rie weie naile.d to the walls alive j to then
tneir eves torn out, uther their Helh cut out,
and afterwards were ac, like so many biids>.
The cries of the women and children enraged him
the more, for ali that went to him weie ki.kd.
CONSTANTINOPLE, May. 20a
On the 3d inft. the Grand Vizir Juffuf Pafliaw
was Jepoied from that office } and is succeeded by
Melek Mehemmet Paihaw of Canea, in Gandi^.
The plague has manhefted itfelf in every pari
of this residence, arid the neighbouring villages.—
Accidents of the Contagion happen daily in Gala
ta and Pera : It has alio made great piogiefs in
the Archipelago, and many parts of Afu, particu
larly at Smyrna.
„ I I | , , |
BRITISH NAVY.
ALFRED is mentioned as the founder of the
Briiilh navy, f»om his having oppoled the incui
lions of the Danes on their favorite element with
success, but the reign of Elizabeth; was the fnft
period in which the tnglifh power became res
peCtable at sea. In the reign of Henry VIII. that
piince, in order to ft: out 0 navy, wa* obliged to
hire Ihips from Hambutgh, Lubec, Dantzic, Ge
noa, and Venice. ElizaLetn, howevei, builr
some Ihips of war hcileif, and ehcouraged the
merchants to conftrudt larger trading velfels than
were then used, which, on occasion, were eafi!)
converted into fighting ships. 1* J 509, on the
alarm of the Spaniih invafton, the Qneen equip
ped a fleet and levied an army in a fortnight
to oppoft them. This sudden armament gave fo
te'igners an high idda of the resources of England
at that period;
At Elizabeth's death, the nurhbef of (hips of
war amounted to forty-two. This appears a na
vy of lome consequence, but. compared with the
importance it has lince attained, was very con
temptible, especially when it is considered that
none of the above vefTelt carried maie than foi ty
guns, and four only were of the number. There
vwere but two of a thousand tons burthen, twenty
three below five hundred, forme of filtyj and a lew
of not more than twenty tons, the whole nutnbei
of guns ' elonging to the ffret being only levei
hundr id feven.ty-foun In 15 12 the learner
of Enj, were computed at 14,295, the number
of vefl 1232.* of which there %tere but 217
eigh tons.
J ' i the British fleet confined of 83 (hips,
befiu.. thirty on the flocks. At the revolution
:hc to 173 vessels of different
.•atesj and requiied (tzmen to ir.an i-t.
Tbe fdlUiv'ing Remarkable jiJ'vrrtlfcmerit appear*
in a Linden Paper of May 28.
Speedily to be published, price One Shilling,
SPEECHES of the Right Honorable WILLI
AM PITT on PARLIAMENTARY RE
h ORM, a* delivered in the House of Commons in
the years 1782, 1783, and 1785
Mr. Pitt may, with propiiety, be called the
Father of Parliamentary Reform , in his lpceches I
j are found the strongest arguments on that impor
tant fubjedfc j it was he who firlt awakened the
'd':a in the minds of the people, convinced them
of the neceflity of the measure, and called upon
them to support it. Being therefore indebted to
iim foi every county meeting, and every affjeia
;on si nee formed, for the purpose of carrying his
,)iinciples into effect, the Editor flatters himfelf
til at this pamphlet wiil be favourably received by
the public at large, and by the friends of the
mini tier in particular. He thinks it however ne
celTary, for his own fafety, to take the opinion of
Counsel j and if they should determine, that he
may print tbffe fpeecbes, without becoming liable
to the penalties and prosecutions threatened
j.»ainft all wirked and feditiou* writings, tending
,0 e>#cire discontent in the minds of the people
lefpedting the present mode of governing, he will,
in a tew days, give further notice of the time 0/
üblicatioii.
LANDS for SALE,
JN a well fettle.l Cnuntrv. SIXTY-FIVE
Tl-iCL SAND THRKE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY . J'(3UR ACMES OF LAND, in uue
ody, in the molt populous part of the state of
South-Ca»olina, in the diltriil ot Ninety-fix—lt
is si uated in a fine healthy climat*,fret from fever
& ague,abcut lixty miles from Columbia, the feat
of government. The land is contiguous to the
uwij of Cambridge, where are a ieminary for the
inftru&ion of youth, and a superior law court. It
i.. a' pr< lent v ithin about thirty-five miles of good
av.gaii n, with a probability >f having the r»v#r,
•jal.eU the Grcru Saluua, that fl >ws along one fide
<.f the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
tuliy diver hnsd into Iwet'la and vales, and i* per
;t£Uy well calculated for the culture ®f tobacco,
sotton, li»di4n coin, and final! grain ; a great
topoition tff it may be made meadow ground,
i here i<> not, perhaps, fu.ch a body of land, focii
> am (lanced, far sale in any other . f the U; Scales.
The terms of payment v-ill be made convenient to
he purchaser or ptirchalcis. Apply to the Printer.
Augult 29. lawtf
NEW-YORK & PHILADELPHIA STAGES*
Via Bordenton and Burl'inpton,
And SHREWSBURY & PHILADELPHIA
STAG E,
V\a Bordenton•
THE proprietors of the New-York and Phi
ladelphia land and water Stages beg leave ro
mention, that for the better accommodation of
r »aHengers, they have thooght proper to remove
ine different packet boats from their former Hand,
at the Crooked Blilct wharf, to the wharf or dock
immediately next below Arch-street, from whence, '
on the firlt day of July next, aiul afterward*. a <
convenient packet-boat will ftait for New-York,
ai ulual, on every Sunday, Tuesday, Wednefda>
and Thursday, and return on every Tuesday,
I hurlday, Friday and Saturday. The to
be made either by the wa < of Bordenton or Bur
lington, each placet© betaken altcrhat lv. Fa
for pa Mongers from Philadelphia to Ncw-Yor
15s.— For Goods prjewt. 6a.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
DAVID WILLIAMSON,
Proprietors of the line of New-York and Phi
ladelphia Stages, by the route of Bordenton.
JACOB MYERS,
AMOS HUTCHIN,
NICHOLAS SGHENJC,
Proprietors of the line of N. York and Phila
delphia Stages, by the route of Burlington.
The Shrewsbury Stage will leave Philadelphia
in the months of July ajid September, on every
Sunday and Wcdntflday, and return on ever.
1 uelday and Friday. In the month of Augufl,
it will leave Philadelphia on every Sunday and
Thursday, anu return ou every Tuesday and Sa
turday.
VAN EMBDRGH k M'KEAN,
DAN'IiL LOT,
Proprietors of i'iac Shrewsbury and Phi lad. Sta^e.
Bordenton, Jur.e 5.5, 1791.
For freight or pafl'age apply to the mailers on
board, or co M'KEAN & VAN EMBURGH,
at their store on laid wharf, immediately next be
low Arch-Street ; by übom orders for the purcbaje
of all kihdi of grain, slaves, or other toitntry pro
duce, are punctually attended to.
For freight or palfage 10 Lamberton or Tren
ton, also apply as above. tf.
Philadelphia, "June 27.
To be publijhed by Sub/cribtion,
THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
or (
PROCEEDINGS Of THE
Oti C^omfic^dj
From September 1774, to Marcli 1789 —an au
thentic and original collection of
Official -£e,6ttr<i Sfc.
Written during the late war; —and Ex
tra&s from the
ifecret ,
[F*r particularly fee the Proposals at la'ge.~\
Subscriptions aie received by the principal
bookfeliers, and by the Editor,
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pcar-I*tiee£j Phila
delphia, j
fcecrgt Tcztin, June a, 1792.
A NUMBER of LU i o in every fiuutiort
which may be desired in the city of Wafh
mgton, will be offered for Tale, by he Commis
sioners on Monday the Bth day of October next.
O.ie fourth part of the purcb&f: money ;.o Le
paid d ;wn, the residue in three eqyal annual pay
ment,, with yearly interest on the whole princi
pal unpaid. JOHN M. GANTT,
July 25. Clerk ro the Commi®oner.s.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for faie by the Printer.
JohnM'Gulloch,atNo, 1. North Thir
d and by most of the Book-
Sellers in this city,
(Price 3/9)
MODERN CHIVALRY:
Containing the
Adventures of Capt. John Farrago*
and
league O'Regan,
his Servant.
VOLUME 11.
By H. H. BRACKENRIPGE^
Quicqtiid a gum Hoihincs nqfiri, Farrago libelli.
Juvenal.
Society for ejtablifljing ufeful manufacture,
NOTICE is hereby given to the holders of
ff ;ck in the laid lociety, that the Allowing
anap t ement hai been made by the Deputy Go
trtior and Directors thereof, by a refolutian of
the eighteenth day of May, 1)92.
The fecund inflalmfcnt for the payment of ftmes
in the flock of this fociery, mav be made in the
following martner, via
The amount of the said second instalment, be
ing 20 13-100 dollar* each /hare, may be paid in
three payments, on condition that tbe lawful in
terest 0/ 7 per cent, per annurrt, be calculated
and paid with each proportionate part of the said
payment, that is to Jay, 011 or before the thir
teenth day of Augjil next, the sum of 6 71-10,0,
with the addition of 12 cents, being the intarc£
of one month 00 2013-100 dollars—on or
lore the 13th of September next, the sum Qf
1-100 dollars, with tjie addition of 8 cents, be
ing tiie interest Jl. one moijth <?n 13 42-100 dol
lars—and on or before the 13th of October next,
the sum of 6 71-100 doJars, with the addition of
4 cents, being the intcre'.l on the fame for ojif
month. Tnc said payments arc to be maiie at the
following places, viz. In the city of Philadelphia,
at the bank of the United btates— it Ne«v-Brunf
wick, in New-Jersey, to John Bavard, or John
N'eiifon, Elqis—.tnd in tile city of New-York, a.t
the bank cf Ncvy-Voik, 01 either of the said
places, which may be moil convenient to the
lfcock hojd 'rs.
By oider of the direction,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerk:
July 24. t f,
FOR SALE,
BOU r 100,000 >4cres nt i.ana, lying jiejr
Xl VThiteftjwn, in the rt»te ps New-Vork, «■
tnc north fide of the Mohawk river, adjoining
No' .'-borough, an/, will ue fold either in parcels
or tog-ichcr, as may suit the purchalcrs.
N.B. The fihrovc tract 01 land is of the firft
' quality in the \\< te, chiefly timbered with beach'
n i maple, weil watered, and contains many mill
lats. 1 he peculiar advantages of this trad, fhu
af.d wichin a few mi.es of Whitiftown (which
contains upwards of five thousand inhabitants)
with an easy and convenient water carriage to
Schenedady, Albany, and New-York, make it an
object for any pcrfoos inclined to fettle it, and ren
der it an exuemejv advantageous purchase for
persons inclined to realize ;heir money in land as
an encreafing value. The whole tract or any part
of it, will be fold very low fqr cash, or for
pafli, and the remaining payment# at distant peii
odi. Enquire at No. 229 near the
Fly-market New.York.
July 19.
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. Oswald,
(Price Eleven Pence)
FIVE LETTERS,
addreflcd to the
[Yeomanry of the United States:-
CONTAINING some Observations on the
Schenit 01 Governor Duer and Mr Secreta
ry Hamilton, to eftahlini National Manufactures j
by a FARMER. This pamphlet, so highly in
•ereAing at uhis period, may be had at the follow
ing places : it Mr. Olwald's Printing -Office, No.
. 156, Markct-iireet j at No. 209, Market- ilreet-'j
at Mr. DoUfon's, 41, South Second-ftffet ; at
I Mr. C uklhank?, Maiket-ftrei't j at Mr,
•\itken's, 22, M:-l:cr-i>rcetj and at Mr. Young)*
S. W. corncir of Chefnut and Secoiwi-ftreeti.
August 21.
—
•*,* Th ree handfomc Editions of {Is I a<ws
of the United States for fate a. this office
(No. 209 Market Jlreet) in folio anil alia
■vo, cither full or half bound—N B. The
I-liivs of the ItJl Seffiuti, in oft/ivo only, may
le hadjej.arste, price three eighths of a dollary
*** For fa.ie at this Office., Sermons by
the llcv'd Dr. William Lain, of N. York
Price 5/7 1-2.
PRINTED BY
C 111 LD S AND SWA IN E,
AT TH IK OFFICE -MO. HIG H^STKIiT
!>' FIFTH-ST UEET,
ADKLPHiLFHIA,