Vol. I.
OBSERVATIONS
On the folicy of keeping Jbut the ,doors ojth"
Se'iaie of the United Stutzs*
[From the Universal Asvium.]
THE Senate having hitherto prefever
ed in their doors fliut, the
publi must not expect much information
refpe&irg the deliberations of that branch
or the federal legiflnture. Like the my
steries of free masonry, the reasons ofthei>
condnft, it seems, are never to be divulg
ed. Even the arguments agaiuft opening
their doors, (if any such arguments have
leer. uf-u ) have not been ma 'e public ;
a the' tr i. ou!d seen proper, for thefatil-
Fadli .i of that numerous ciafs of citizens,
■wlit hrve publicly exp.effed their difap
p, V, a t,on of the secret manner in v.hich
).:'.(Etive q-.efti 1 • are decided upon in
tl it house May not a greater parr o!
tlu <• rii.'.rniur: >s, and of that want ef
confidence in the government, which
have,' for foir.e tme ; ail, been gaining
y ~ i sunor.gft •s, be juflly afi ribed to
thio mv lerious condudt of the Senate
W' a prehend they may—And, if so
the evil v probably increase, while it„
cause if fuffered to exist. It is indeed,
itnpofiible that a free government should
long be maintained, in any country, the
citizens of which are kept in the darK,
with refpeft to public measures. If rulere
will cx;:< 3 obediencc from the people,
they must not treat them like Haves ;
they mull convince them of the reafcna
blenefs and propriety of 'lie laws, or they
will not continue to refpeft and obey them.
BUfcey (1-ould, they would be unworthy
of freedom. If, like the idolaters, who
er;Sed an altar ' To the unknown God,"
a people are content ignorantly to obey,
they are fiaves, in the worst sense of the
word—fiaves, of their own choice. We
feel too deep an interest in the freedom
and welfare of our country to suppress
these sentiments. We, however, advance
them with the more confidence, becauie
we are convinced that they are not ou;
lentiments alone, but those of a large ma
jority of our fellow citizens, throughout
the United Stares. If, as it has been con
tended by many, the ilate-governments
are likely to have th-ir powers encroached
uprn, by that of the union, it would be
an injustice to the state-legislatures, to
suppose, that they will be so negligent
of their own or the people's rights,asto re
elect any of their federal senators, who
have voted againit opening the doors ol
that body. The house of reprefenta
tives might, with equal propriety, fliut
their doors also ; but this they will fear e
ly attempt, while they are immediately
responsible to the people, by being ren
dered dependent upon them for their feats,
at Uie end of every two years.
ON GOVERNMENT.
IT is very singular that any discussion
cr difficulty couhi ever have arisen among
moral or political reafoners, concerning
the natural equality of man, or that the
promulgation o* a p'-opofition fx evident,
ffiould ever have been necessary of the
•one pait, or should ever have given oil ,-c
fcf the ether , fmce the slightest view ot
this fubj,-a fhou'.d have determined that
the very idea o! government includes th.
idea of the equality of man, as of a firfl
principle.
"It is admitted that no government 01
no society, even among bands of robbers,
could subsist tor a moment, if Jufiice were
entirely baniflied ; and, that with jullice
though every other virtue were proscribed,
as is generally the cafe among lawless
confederacies, society may yet be fuftam
ed : the great principle then of the fo<-i
al union or government, is Jufiice ; with
out it none can fibfitt, with it, • all may
But if we look into the nature of this
principle, so efTei.tial to society, we (ball
By P. FR E N F. AU : Puhlijhtd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
WEDNESDAY, August 8, 1792.
find it to be neceflarily connedled with
tlie equality of man ; insomuch, that e
quality is the cause, without which, justice,
the eff.ct, could not possibly have place.
Why is Caius just to Titus ? or why does
society compel him to be io, ii he is not ?
it is because there is a natural equality be
tween Caius and Titus : but you fay, the
iuterefts of the community require that it
should be so, and not the natural equality
o{ the persons ; to this I answer, that the
interests of the community are only an in
termediate cause, which itfelf depends
on the equality of the persons; there
can be no interelts where there i< no Veci
procity, and there can he no reciprocity
where there is not equality ; else, why is
the idea of Jufticie common only amcni
the human species ? Why is it not extend
ed by men to the birds of the a r and the
beails of the field ? It is because the boun
daries are here clearly diftingm(hed, and
the natural inequality of t'.efe parts of
the animal creation to man, would ler. er
the idea of justice, as between man and
(uch parts of the creation, too absurd to
he entertained ; and as it ;s the natural
inequality of fiich dillintt fpec.es, which
prevents them from ever coalescing ar.d
uniting in a commonwealtu with man ;
To it is the natural equality of man, which
giving birth to Juflice enables the human
[pecies to unite, to form commonwealths,
;nd to reciproca' e hanpinefs.
"All men then are equal: this every
government mull suppose, or none could
[land, for none could fland without juliice,
which has for its basis equality. But
men cannot be equal in some refpefts, and
i".ct equal in others i therefore, they are e
:::ial in all refpefts Therefore, what
.■ver government eftabhfnes
among men, or grants privileges to some
which it withholds from others, departs
Trom its true principle. 'I his, indeed, is
;he cafe with moR existing governments ;
the fpnrk of life which has kindled them
into exiflence, is quite extinguished, or,
faintly glimmering in the obfeure recess,
is discovered only by the keen eye of phi
losophic research. \_Morn. Chron.~\
CHARLESTON, July 17.
Saturday last, being the anniversary of
the French revolution, The members of
the French Patriotic society, with several
other French gentlemen, descendants from
French families, and other friends of
liberty and the French constitution, agreed
to celebrate that auspicious day, by dining
together in public ; in order to unite, by
that means, themselves, their sentiments
and aflfe&ions, with their brothers in
France. —At noon they went to the
church of the French poteftants, to af
fi(t at the TeDeum, which was sung there-
After the Tc Deum, Mr. Code preached
a very eloquent ferraon. When the cere
mony was over, they returned to the ex
change, where Mr. Luby delivered a dis
course well adapted to the occaiion.
At 3 o'clock they fat down to an ele
gant dinner. Good humour and chear
fulr.efs prevailed until the moment of fe
paration.
A number of convivial and patriotic
songs weie sung; and during the enter
tainment the following toalls were gi
ven.
1. The memorable 14th of July 1789.
2. The national alTembly of France.
3. The federal army.
4. The ■ agriculture and commerce of
Fra> ce
5. The United States.
6 The American Congress.
7. The President.
8. The heroes, la Fayette, Washing
ton, Rochambeau, and Luckner, defend
ers of liberty.
10 The memory of the worthies who
have fallen in support of the rights of man
kind
10. May the alliance between France
and America be eternal.
ir. The English nation.
i:. The Polish nation.
13. To 'he memory of Montesquieu.
Volt 1 .c, Ro-iffeau, Franklin, and Mitu
beau
14. Paine, M'lntofh, the author of the
leflbr o a young prince, and all other
advo«£' ' "• ' '■
Ic. Ihe ilate oi South-Carolina.
It>. May the bountiful genius, which
snlightened the French people, cn
ighten in like manner all the people of
:he earth, (who f ; roan under rlie yoke
if kings) and give them a fufficient de
cree tif energy to produce their rcgenera
:ion.
17. May liberty and peace forever
eign unbounded -on the globe.
18, All the patriotic fooieties.
\fter sunset a transparent piece of pain
ing tvy Mr. Gdin, was exhibited, which
:onti ns the following alh-gories.
ill Which is at the right hand of the
>ifture, teprefents France js at the foot
>f the national altar, led l>y wisdom, who
r.'c i.if-s tofupporther liberty and mpire.
2.1. Mars on the right hand of France,
.vi'b his insignia, offering his protection.
3si. Liberty above the national altar,
;xte,iding her arms over the two hemif
ihews. holding in her right hand a cap of
iberty, and in her left the French nation
,1 colours.
4. Betweeji Liberty and the altar, the
ive nations who have preserved or acquired
heir liberty, viz. America, England,
•mi'zerland ,Holland and Poland, repre
sented by their tutelat geniuffes each hold
ng'he colours of his relative nation: they
ip; 10 cor-grifJ.lte I cc ;i !;cr fu
:efs, and swear, in the name of their ref
pedtive nations, to live flee or die.
5. At the right hand of the altar, the
of equity, consuming with fire the
aooks of the ancient arbitrary law. the
:itles cf nobility, and other abuses which
:xifted in France.
6- At the top of the piflure, thegeni
uffes of France and America, holding in
:heir hands the tre'aty of alliance buvtixt
:he two nations.
'/th. Gn the left of the picture truth,
,vhich from the one hand throws on the
ground the fanatic monfler, holding in his
lands the book of the dark science, which
"o many centuries have not rendered more
rlear, and which, instead of enlightening
men and rendering them better, did no
thing but didraft their minds more and
more, and cause them to commit the mod
dreadfjl crimes. The snakes which sur
round fanaticifm, are the emblem of the
enfnarjng and venomous discourses which
the fanatics used in order to feducd the
people and to incline them to civil war, to
support their interests and their ambition,
under the pretence of supporting the cause
us God and religion. The bloody poig
m:rd which it holds in the other hand,
calls to our minds the affafiinations, parri
cides, and murders committed during the
crusades, the league, the revocation of the
edict of Nantz, and St. Bartholomew's
day ; and to give us, by that means, an
idea ot all the infamous crimes which it
has inclined men to commit. The light
which is placed on the head of Truth, is
designed to direct France and all other
nations to avoid those fatal rocks.
Bth. Above fanaticifm appears the
shade of Mirabeau, who resorts to the F.ly
fian fields, where he is kindly received by
Ktnry the fourth, Voltaire, RouiTeau,
Franklin, &c.
9th. Gn the feme fide of the p'chire,
appear the fliades of some aristocrats, who
beg of Charon a place in his boat, in order
tocrofs the river Styx, & resort to the Ely
fian fields ; But Charon havinglearnt that
they had been ariilocrats, drives them out
with some strokes of hisoar, fromhis boat,
and casts them into the river as unworthy
to enter the Elyfian fie'ds.
The society believes itfelf obliged to
render public the patriotism which Mr.
Fe/aud, captain of a French veff.l named
Numb. Br.
bt Boisde Cery, of Marfei!les,&Mj GuiTa
tau, captawi ft e brig Les Trois Amis, of
Nantz, have displayed on this occasion ;
they falated the day with a discharge of
cannon on board of their vessels, and hoift
o,l the three different colours, American,
Englilh and French ;at noon, when the
... tubers oi 1 r ftfciety v."tth tliie fubfcrib
crs, were rep tiring to the French church,
they gave another discharge, they fired at
the toalts, and terminated the day & the
(eafl with repeated vollies.
The society was the more fatlsfied, at
M. Charles Pinckney, governor, and the
other chief officers of the state, having
honored the company with their pre
sence.
We are happy to add, that no untow
ard accident happened to damp this scene
of gaiety ; but that the day closed with
f hat harmony and decent mirth and felli
pity, for which the French arefo remarka<"
ale.
■uiLi'J
AUGUSTA, (Georgia) July 14.
Green/borough 'July 7. Wednesday last
aeing the 4th of July a number of gen
lemen and ladies convened at the town
"pringto celebiate the smr.!/erfary of A
uerican independence. At three o'elock
hey fat down to an elegant c!i .n.:i. Col
onel Henry Karr, President, and Doctor
lilihu Lyman, Vice President, when thd
following toads were given under a dif
aharge of a c?nnon viz.
Tne fifteen United States.
The President.
The Senate and Hoafe of Reprefenta
:ive<> in Connie's,
May this anniversary be remembered
,vith honour to the latest ages
May Congress relinquish their opprcf-
Ive grasp upcin the territorial rights of
:h s itate.
The commander in chief of the w;ftern
irmv.
The governor, State, and fair daugh
ters of Georgia.
Louis 16th and national aflembly of
France.
The Marquis de la Fayette.
The author of the Rights of Man.
The memory of General Warren.
The memory of General Greene.
T ie memory of Doctor Franklin,
The memory of all those brave heroes
,vho have fallen in defence of Liberty.
The county of Greene.
The day was spent with feflivity and
Tiirth.
The following is an extraS of a letttr front
a person whoferved in the affair of Moris
to his father at Havre de Grace, It was
dated Valenciennes, and ttf insert it as
throwing fume additional light cn that un •
fortunate days icarfirc.
" On the 28th of April we received
orders to march towards M'>ns—Nine
thousand of our men were ordered to mak<
an alttck upon the town ; we e.teaissped
about a quarter of a league frota the ene
my, and the next morning, at day :ight»
the army was divided into three divinons :
upon cur march through the firft Geraiian
village, called Q_aicvra;c, we p;an"ed the
tree of liberty, alter having turned o'it the
enemy ; —we were weil received by the
inhabitants, and the Germans on our paf
fng through, shouted " live tiie French
libertv, live the nation," and warmly en
couraged our attack upon Mors. At three
o'clock we began the attack, and contim.- 1
ed until night, when the firing on both
fides ceased. Early the next. morn : ng,
the attack was renewed, but an unaccount
able terror had seized the dragoons of the
Queen's regiment—they fired fo'eiy three
putols, and running off, cried " lave them
ielves who are able —this cauicd f »
much difordtr in the army, th they im
mediately retreated in the utir.oft conftt*
fion, but kept up a fir.all running fire, ex
pofing-the battallions upon the left,.who
wiere dctacued near the woods; t.ic bat-Ot'lion of P<iris, in which I am, was also
expjfed to the fire of the enemy, and fome
wiiat iijured. Wc had four pieces of
canrron, with which we refilled their
whole force, tho' they surrounded us upon
evr-y q'urter. The spirited behaviour of
our soldiers upon this occasion, secured
the retr«at of the French army, who re
turned the fame day far Valenciennes.
M. Rochambeau, who commanded our
army, has been charged to have caused
this defeat—many of the soldiers upon
their retreat, cried "treafon."—lt feeing
a limilar misfortune has happened to the
small army commanded by M. Dillon, who
was the fame day making a falfe attack
upon Toil may, to facilitate taking o!
Mons : —The soldiers enraged at being
betrayed by tficir commander, cut him in
pieces upon the spot, and burnt him. to
ashes. Trom that time wt! have made no
further attempt. We are now assembling
an army of greater force. The German
troops Jaily enter our small villages bor
dering upon the line. Our army will con
fill of fifty thousand men, and will march
in a few days—this second attempt will
110 doubt fuceeed, M.irechal Luckner
will have the command of this army, as
M. Rochambeau has gone to Paris, in or
der to resign his commission, on account
of private orders given to M. Dillon, up
on the firfl attack, by the king and mini
ster, without the knowledge of M. Ro
chambeau, who was commander in chief."
Extratlsfrom Engli/h papers to June 10.
LONDON, June 9.
Party cabal is bulily employed in endea
vouring to turn Count D'Aranda out oftiie
Ministry. The under-ftrappers of Count
Florida Blanca have encreafed the number
ofthofe enemies, that ignorance and l'uper
ffition formerly railed against D'Aranda ;
great pains are taken to inculcate the idea,
that his chief reason for adopting a pacific
fyltein with respect to France, is because
the new constitution abolilhes the clergy
and the monks; and that he intends to do
the fame thing in Spain. Absurd as these
insinuations are, there is reason to fear,
that when artfully enforced by intriguing
courtiers,and by certain fanrtified charaflers,
they will produce their effert, and deprive
Spain of the ferviAjs of the only man who
is capable of fuccefsfully promoting her
prosperity.
The new regulations for the French ar
my are, in many particulars, very severe.
Whosoever, within reach of the enemy,
speaks a word, or utters any exclamation
contrary to order, is condemned to be put
in irons for 6 years. Marauding is rigorously
punilhed, and also the harlh treatment 0/
prisoners. Death is the punilhment of any
fold:er, who cries out "we arecut cjf y " "We
are betrayedor any thing of limilar tenden
cy. No man in command is to he after
wards queltioned fur arts offeverity, which
may become necessary during an engage
i»< nt. This article is thought hard but
it is thought indispensable in the heat of
artio I.—Officers are fubjeft to double the
punilhment incurred for any fault which
they neglert to repress, or any art of diso
bedience to which they give way.
F.xtraEl of a letter from Madrid, May 7.
" Monsieur de Bourgoing has been re
ceived as Mmifter Plenipotentiary of the
King of the French. He was well received
at court, and has received and paid all the
cuftornary visits. The admiffioii of that
minifler is equivalent to a formal recogni
tion of the new constitution : wherefore
the refugees and their adherents loudly
complain of having been deceived in their
expectations. This success is owing to the
■wifdoin of the Spanilh miniflry, as well as
to tlie prudent conduct of M. deßourgoing.
and "o the delicacy for some time part ob
served by the French government, towards
the court of Madrid. We cannot howe
ver conclude from the admiflion of a mini
fler plenipotentiary, that Spain is disposed
to perform all the conditions of the trea
ties by which file is united to France : but
at lead we may expert ftie will remain neu
ter, and that a perfect harmony will fnbfift
between the two nations.
" Every mind here seems flruck with afto
nifhmsnt to observe how deep an interest
the court of Prussia appears to rake in the
ailairs of France : nor can people conceive
-why Prussia thinks herfelf obliged to exert
her whole force. It is (ufperted that the
Prussian monarch is only the tool of
another power that (kulks behind the cur
tain, butis'much more interested than he,
in the ruin of France. So generally preva
lent is this opinion, that even Spanifii loyal
ty itfelf could not refrain from demonflra
tioils of contempt for those Frenchmen who
rejoice at the league formed against their
native country. It is certain, that the re
fugees, who have, called in alliltance even
of the enemies ot France, have proved
themselves iijfamous traito s, and that the
irregular conduct of the factious citizens
(to which rhey themselves had given rife)
cannot potfibly palliate their guiic."
i.etter from Marflials Luckner and Ro
chambeau, read before the National Al
fembly of France, relative to the repoi
teilmg ot the French frontier town of
bavay.
On the r 7 th of May, at day break, the
patro.es of ?he polt at Bavay returned, re
porting that they had not observed any
tiling. Not long after a body of the enemy,
Of about three thousand men,- made its ap
pearance in three columns, coming out of
the toreif of Sarthe ; —one column march
nig towards the road to Maubeusre, the
other towards the road of Valenciennes,
and the third keeping between the other
two, oppolite to the centre of that part of
the town of Bavay that fronts the sorest ot
bai the; their cannon were brought to plav
upon the town, which hoisted national co
lours.
The French detachment of 80 men, sta
tioned at Bavay, liiewed much courage,
ana killed and wounded some of the ene
my : but, according to the. declaration
made by the municipality to Marshal Luck
thfy deviated from the express orders
of Marshal Rochainbeau, who had directed
the 111 to, occupy the centre of the to.wn, tc
tall back before a fu'perior force, antP .-on
nder themselves limply as a patrole. The
detachment 011 the contrary, attempted 3
vigorous opposition, inltead of withdrawing
by the gate of Louvigny, 011 the fide of
Quelnoy, and were made prifonersof war
An oihcer and some men of the third r e~i.
mentconduaed themselves with more pru
dence and propriety. They fell back, only
after the surrender of the town, waited for
the infantry behind Louvicny, but finding
that they did not arrive, fell back through
Qiiefnoy upon Jail in.
As soon as the Marflials were informed
01 the movement of the enemy, they p-ave
oia'ers to M. Noailles to march immediate -
.y with a vanguard, conipofed of 3 fn,,ad
ions ot huflars, 3 companies of the ift regi
ment of chafTeurs, 2 of the fifth, 2 pickets,
and 2 pieces of artillery. Marflial Luckner
went forward with the van guard and M.
Noialles.
At the fame time, Marlhal Rochambeau
determining to take Bavay, whatever forces
the enemy might defend it with, put in mo
tion the battalions of the sth, 27th, and
74th regiments of infantry, 2 squadrons of
the 17th regiment of dragoons, anil 4 eight
pounders. The marlhal ordered at the
fame time, a detachment to move from
Maubeuge and one from Quefnoy : the
fir ft with artillery. They took an advan
tageous fitnation before Jallin, whils the
troop; that were to co-operate moved for
ward.
I he Marshal gave orders to the van guard
to reconnoitre the position of the enemy,
to enter Bavay if evacuated, and tofummon
it to surrender if otherwise.
Marlhal Luckner informed Marlhal Ro
chambeau, byM. Montpenlier, as an ex
press, that the van guard Had entered Bavay
at 11 o'clock—two hours after the enemy
Imd left it; that they (the enemy) had ta
ken with them 6 carriages full of wounded.
The enemy entered Bavay 2,300 m number,
with 6 pieces of artillery.
TOO much praise cannot be given to the
(Hence and rapidity of the movements of
the van guard, under General Luckner, as
well as of the troops immediately under
General Rochambeau.
N. B. The enemy wilhed to pillage Ba
vay ; but the Austrian officers opposed with
threat severity the wilh of the l'oldiery.—
I'hey took with them the arms of the inha
bitants. They fell back with expedition
behind the sorest of Sarthe whence the>
came. The Marshal left a Imall body ol
troops at Bavay, which will be reinforcec
as circumstances may require.
(Signed) Marflials Luckner and Rochambeau.
[from France, June I.]
It has been proposed to reinforce the
F rencii armies with interior camps, cover
ing and supporting those which are advancet
towards the enemy's frontier. This ma\
be ealily done : as f ranee has now not lefi
than four hundred thousand men in arms.
The French have much to hope from the
jealousies of their enemies : the Auftrian
and the Prullians are not only diffident cl
each other, but decline Siting with the emi
grant princes and their troops. This fic
tion prevails among the arillocrats as weli
as in the heart of the National Aflembly.
Political, like religious institutions, flou
rish by persecution. Thus it is with the
friends of the people, who augment dailv
111 numbers.
The tranfaftions of the French National
Aflembly have presented very little that is
intereftirtg for this few days, pall. The an
swer of his Britannic Majesty, affertine in
the mo ft positive terms tile absolute neu
trality of England, and the strict adherence
of that court to the terms of the exiftinn:
treaties was read in the Aflembly, on Thurs
day 1 ast, and gave great and universal fa
tisfaction.
From all partspatrioticcontributions are
coming for the support of the war. The
city ot Bourdeaux has sent 77,000 livres,
chiefly ill specie ; the 46th regiment of in
fantry, 2,608 livres in specie, and 6jo livres
in aflignat-s. In its address to the Aifemblj ,
this corps gallantly declares, that it depolits
its silver on the altar of its country—-its
Heel it reserves for the enemy.
In about weeks, it is reckoned that
the emigrant army will be ready to make
nil irruption into 1" ranee. Xt i their inten
tion to penetrate by the Black Forest, which
joins that of Ardennes ; and to endeavour,
through Campaigue, to force their way to
Paris.
j ' le v,a '' ona ' Aflembly,on Saturday,fet
tled the future salaries of the Ministers. It
was decreed, that the Minister for Foreign
• nairs should have an appointment of 75,000
ivres (about three thousand guineas) a year,
the other Ministers 5 0,000. This, though
an ample allowance, does not exceed the
emoluments of the chief clerks in the pub
lic offices of England.
In the course of this fitting, the War
Minister laid before the Assembly the plan
ot anotlier federation, to be formed in a
camp to the-northward of Paris. Each
canton to fend five men, clothed and armed,
to renew the oath to live free or die, 011 c
or these men to be a horfenian ; thus a na
tional cavalry might be formed, and a camp
of 20,000 men, which would cover and pro
tcft Paris.
The French paper money is now at as
great a discount a it has been at any period
lince the revolution ; the patriots, howe
ver, have no cause to def'pond. It should
be remembered, that the paper money oi
the Americans was under a depreciation at
least ten times greater ; and they, instead
of only failing of their purpose in two or
three (light skirmishes, were beat in every
successive engagement for two years toee
ther. 6
Copy of a letter from General Fayette to thi
hjinijlcr of War, dated Hamptinne, near Floreu
ncSj May 24.
Si!.
When I left camp for Valenciennes,l gave
°"^ rsto •*> body, detached under the orders
of Camp-Marfiial Gouvion, to take poflef
lion of Come forage intended for the ene
my, but to make lure of a retreat upon Phi
lippeville.
The oiay before yesterday upon my re
turn, I learnt that this expedition ha per
fectly succeeded. Colonel Lallemand com
manding the foraging detachment, had the
(aine day been followed, but not interrupt
ed by the enemy.
Yesterday at' day-break, M. Gouvion
was attacked at Hamptinne, r.ear Floren
nes by a force greatly superior, that had
collected from several quarters.
He had only under hi-; command here,
the firft battalion of National Volunteer'
ol the Cote-d'Or, the second of Maine, the
Sith and 85th regiments of regular infan
try, the 9th of light infantry, fix squadrons
ot the 3d and nth of mounted Cliafleurs,
a company of the 6th regiment of Huflars
and 8 four pounders; in all lei 3 than 4000
men.
The enemy more than double the num
ber, had with them aformidable train of ar
tilleiy but, notwithstanding this
i'liperiority, AT. Gouvion declined retiring
without firft making some opposition.
I (übjoinan extract of the account this
General officer has given me;—it follows :
The Austrian vanguard was at firft, twice
driven back by a detachment of light infan
try, grenadiers of the 55th and one fqir.i
dron of the nth regiment, the whole under
the orders of a lieutenant colonel, who on
ly gave way at die third attack, and then
formed a junction with two companies oi
vomntecr grenadiers polled in ihevillase 01
St. Aubin. a
While the defence of that village was
pnrfning, M. Gouvion. feeing that the ene
my displayed a superior force, put his camp
111 motion towards Philippeville, leaving
behind about 20 tents, which could not be
taken lor want of a lufficiency of carriages.
1 he cannon of both bodies played for a
considerable time 011 each other ; and a co
lumn of the enemy having dil'played on the
right of our troops and there eftablifned
batteries, M. Gouvion, to prevent their
eroding a hollow road, placed upon his
wing th- 11 th regiment of cliafleurs under
Col. Lallemand; the 3d under Col. Yiclor
L,atour-Maubourg and the company of the
th regiment under Capt. Blondeau. These
troops were exposed to the fire of the ene
mies artillery, but stood firm and Ihewed
the mod cool courage. But as the enemv
were preparing in great force to cross the
hollow road, which separated them from
the infantry, the volunteer battallions oi
Cote-d'Or under Lieut. Col. Cazote ; of
la Marne, under Capt. and the
iith 83d under Col. Devilione, and
Lieut. i„ol. Champolon, were formed in
columns, by half battalions and retired cx
aftly in the order intended ; each body pre
serving its proper distance,—the cavalry
covering the infantry while performing this
manoeuvre, and the artillery making nfe' ot
every advantageous situation to anuoy the
enemy.
During this retreat of half a league, three
pieces of cannon did execution to last
moment (one of which fell into the hollow
1 o id, but v ere taken, their horses having been
Killed. A fourth was saved under a heavy
hre by artillerymen, and a few volunteers
Cote-d'Or. The enemy having then
fallen back to the place from which they
darted, were !'o closely followed, that their
cavalry oi the rear guard attacked three
times the detachment that pursued, and the
field ot battle was occupied by our detach
ments two hours after the action.
i he artillery of the van guard was com
nianded by lubaltern officers M. cte Manne
court, commanding at Philippeville, ma
naged with much /kill four pieces of cannot*
belonging to that place.
1 incloie an account of our killed and
wounded. The enemy's loss is greater than
ours, because our advanced detachments
were defended by hedges and villages, that
our artillery was admirably managed, and
that it was thought best, rather to° rifle its
being taken, than to diminiffi its execution.
Sir, tlieaccou.it given me by M
Gouvion. I cannot fpcik oo highly of his
condua in the command of the corps under
him. The head officers, Col. Deinottes,
the officers, subalterns and soldiers all de
lerve great credit,
I have the more pleasure, Sir, in com
municating to you an account of this affair
as, lor five hours, not one man left his
ranks, and as the-troops preserved perfect
lilencc, comppfure, and (hewed all the coil
i age that could have been expected from
veterans.
I brought here yesterday evening a body
of reserve. composed of some companies of
grenadiers and squadrons, under the com
mand of Camp-Marflial Mauboiirg. The
armies have not renewed the attack, but
nave withdrawn.
(Signed) Fayette.
London, June io. A patent is making out
to create Lord Thurlow an Earl of Great*
Britain.
11l Poland there prevails a spirit of the
greatest ardour and unanimity. Every
thing is put upon a warlike footing. All
the regiments which are not yet employed
are preparing to join the great armies, and
by a late decree of the Diet all the militia "
are incorporated with the troops of the line.
The inhabitants of Guernsey have sent a
formal declaration to the French National
Aflemblv to contradict the reports of their
intending to fit out privateers under the
Austrian colours ; and solemnly afibring
t hem the very contrary is the cafe, and that
they have not only their warmest willies,
but that whilst England and France are at
peace, they wilh to live on the mod friendly
terms.
A letter from Warsaw, dated May 15
fays, "in the lalt feflion every thing was
decided refpefting the indemnification of the
ci editors of the loan for 30 millions
ciated to defray the expence of the war.
The present and future revenues of the
Staroities are to be appropriated to that
purpose. The Polilh Lords who have pro
tested againftjhe constitution and who are
at Petcrfburgh, have returned to Molda
via."
His Royal Higknefs the Duke Regent of
Sweden has declared to M. Dumas, the
Envoy from the French emigrant Princes,
that Sweden, in the present circumstances,
cannot interfere in the differences between
the French nation and those Princes, unless
an attack is made 011 the Germanic empire,
which the Duchy of Pomerania will require
him to protect.
ExtraElof a Utter from Berlin, May 22
_ " Yefterday-and this day, the king re
viewed the regiments lately arrived from
the neighbouring garrisons, when his ma- '»
jelty made many promotions, both in the ca
valry and infantry.
i'he Court is going into a three weeks
mourning for the death of the Empress
Dowager of Germany.
'' Elie general bank has furnifhed 200,c00
golden Fredericks to the army which is to
a£t on the Rhine ; next week, 300,000 more>
will be delivered.
Prince de Hohenloe, general of
artillery in the Austrian service, arrived
here yesterday from Potsdam.
" '1 he equipage and horses of the Prince
tie Sacken are gone to Frankford on the
Main." ,
STATE PAPER.
Tr(inflation of an official note lately presented by
M Chauvelm, the French Minijler at the Court
of London, to Lord Grenville, on the 24th ult.
THE under-signed Minister Plenipoten
tiary from the King of the French to his
Britannic Majesty, has the honour to inform
Lord Grenville, Minister of state for the
I oreiga department,
" That the Royal Proclamation published
:)n the 21 It of the present month, and com
municated to the two houfesof parliament,
contains fomeexpreffions, which appear (110
:loubt contrary to the intentions of the Bri
:ifli miniliry) to give credit to the errone
ous opinions which the enemies of France
drive to propagate, relative to the inten
tions of Great-Britain.
" If individual* of this kingdom have en
tered into a foreign correspondence, tend
ing to excite troubles, and if, as the procla
mation feerrls to insinuate, some Frenchmen
nave |oined into their views, this is a cir
cumstance unconnected with the French
nation, the legislative body, the king and
-lis minifterr: it is a fa£t entirely unknown
o them, entirely repugnant to all the prin
ciples of juilice, and which, 011 being fliewn,
will be universally condemned throughout
France.
"Independantly of those principles of jus -
-ice, from which afree people ought ne
i-er to depart if any one is anxious to re
ileft candidly on the true interests of the
French nation, is it not evident that thev
mult be, wxiaus for the imertal peace, andthe source and duration of the coiiflitution
of a country which they already look upon
as a natural ally ?
"Is not this the sole reasonable wish
which a people can form, who pcrceive so
many efforts exerted againlt their liberty ?
" The minister plenipotentiary of Fra ice,
profoundly penetrated with these truths
and maxims of universal morality, has al
ready developed them in an official note
presented to the British ministry by the ex
press order of his court, on the 15th of the
present month.
" Thehonourof France, the desire which
she entertains to preserve and augment the
good intelligence between the two coun
tries, and the neceflity of obviating all
doubts on this fubjea, requiring that it
should acquire all possible publicity, the
under-flgned minister plenipotentiary,
begs Lord Grenville to obtain permission
from his Britannic Majesty to communicate
the present official note to the two houses
of parliament, before they deliberate on
the proclamation of the 21ft of May. He
also seizes this opportunity to renew the
teftiinonies ef his high eiteem and refpea
for his excellency.
« CHAUVELIN.
" Minister Plenipotentiary of France."
of the Kingof Great-
Britain, &c. forbiddinghisfubjefts taking
lany part in the war between the King of
France and the King of Hungary.
" WHEREAS hostilities have broken out
between the Most (Christian King, and the
Kingof Hungary; his Majesty. _ for the
preservation and continuance of friendfhip
and amity between him and their said Ma
jesties, doth, by this his royal proclamation,
(with the advice of his privy council) pro
hibit and forbid all his fubjeas whatsoever,
to take any conimiflion at sea, from any fo
reign prince, against any other foreign
prince or state now in amity with his Ma
jesty, or their fubjeas, or by viotue or un
der colour of any such commission already
taken, or hereafter to be taken, to set out
or eniDloy any velfel or fliip of war, or to
serve as marines in any fliip or vefl'el which
fliall be employed against any prince or state
now in annty with his Majesty, or their
fubjefts, during the present war : and all
his Majesty's fubjeas are required to take
notice of his royal command, and to con
form themselves to the fame, upon pain of
incurring his Majesty's high displeasure, and
of being purtifhed with the utmost feveritv
of law and justice. And whereas the Moll
Christian King hath caused application tu
be made to his Majesty, that his Majesty
would, conformable to the third article of
the treaty of navigation and commerce,
concluded at Versailles the twenty-sixth of
September, one thousand seven hundred
and eighty-fix, renew and publifli, in all hi
dominions and countries, the strict and ex
press prohibition contained in the said arti
cle : His Majesty doth hereby ftriflly forb'u
all his fubjeas to receive any commission foi
arming and aaing at sea as privateers, 01
letters of reprisals, from any enemy of the
Most Christian King, or by virtue or under
colour of such commissions or reprisals, tc
disturb, infect, or any ways damage hisfub
jeas; or to arm ffiips as privateers, or gc
out to sea therewith, under the fevereftpu
nifhment that can be infliaed on the tranf
grelfors, beside being liable to make ful
l eftitution and fatisfaaion to those to whon
they have done any damage.
Given at our court at St. James's, the
twenty-fifth day of May, one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety-two
in the thirty-second year of oui
reign."
VIENNA, May zG~.
It is a lingular circumstance, that the
Hungarian nation has made an offer tc
march an hundred, thousand. men, and, fhoulc
there be occasion, to support them several
years at their own expellee. One Hunga
rian Gentleman has offered to furnifh alone
100 men, 1000 measures of oars, and 20,00 c
florins. The King returned him thanks,
and created him a Baron.
On the arrival of dispatches from Tnrir
and Milan, the Aulic council of war order
ed 400 gunners to be detached, and sent
immediately to Piedmont. For the fake of
expedition they were sent in carriages.
The troops of the King of Sardinia will
be aflembled by the 25th of June, and will
be in a state for aaion about the fame time
with our own, and those of the King of
Pruflia. Before this period no great ope
ration can take place, unless the French
anticipate us, which does not ap
pear probable, even according to accounts
of their own generals.
WARSAW, May 20.
The grand blow, which we have so long ex
peaed, isftruck. Ruflia,feeing war declared be
tween Auflria and France, and finding herfell
likely to be called upon to fulfil her engagemrnt
with the former of those two powers, has now
avowed her intentions ; which are to "verturn
the present confiitution of Poland, and give to
it government which may best suit her
felf. An official declaration has been declared
to our government on this fubjea, dated the 18111
of this month, and filling 12 pages in three lan
guages, Polilh, French, and Ruffian. It an
nounced therein 'he entrance of the Ruffian
ft cops on the tcri- Cory of rolled, and the for
mation of a hew confederation. War is there
fore declared. The republic, allured that ?
Europe is fully convinced that it neither m ■ ti
led nor provoked such a step, has taken fucii
meafurej as may lupply the deficiency in point
of forces ; and among other resolutions adopter!
by the diet, a decree was ilftled the i ltli of th's
mouth, en citled, "a measure for a just concur
rence of citizens sot the general defence of the
Country; the substance of which is, that who
ever n the present war fuifers by the inroads o!
the enemy, shall be indemnified by a fraternal
contribution of the whole nation, agreeably to
report of an extraordinary commiifion, which
(hall be appointed to examine their claims ; but
those Poles who prove rebels and traitors to then
country, (hall foifeit their foi tunes, and fuffei
the death they deserve.
PHILADELPHIA.
August 8, 179::.
Copy of a letter from Germantown, Augujl 6, 1792.
" The Editor of the National Gazette
will oblige his friends he»e by inserting the
following account of the blowing up of the
powder-mill at Lower Merion ; —the ac
counts hitherto published being greatly
mis-stated.
" On Thursday morning last, a little af
ter 9 o'clock, this town was alarmed by
a molt tremendous explosion, -from the
blowing up of the powder-mill, lately
erected by Meflrs. Frailey and Keyfer in
Merion, near Schuylkill. The people rar
from all quarters, and, ihocking to relate,
found four persons killed on the spot, and
two wounded, one of whom is lince dead ;
the other was Mr Frailey's daughter, who
had her leg broke by a piece of wood
thrown from the buildings to the distance
of near one hundred yards. —Mr. Joseph
Evaus, who was the only one in the mill,
saw the fire catch in the mortars, and threw
himfelf flat on his face, hoping to escape
the slash, but was so much burnt, that he
languished till Sunday afternoon, and then
died. The persons killed were, Mr. Key
fer, one of the proprietors of the works ;
a Mr. Carr, and a Mr. Miller, both young
men; and also one Mr. Bloom, a married
man, who has left behind a wife and five or
fix children, the wife being pregnant
The three persons last mentioned were in
the drying-house at work, where were
two tons of finifhed powder, which also
catching from the mill, although at a great
distance, blew up the whole building, darn
ed the people to pieces, burning them al
most to cinders, and not leaving a vestige
of the building on the spot. Mr. Keyiei
was at a spring near the mill, when a
piece of timber from some of the works
came and nearly took off his head. Mr.
Frailey was standing in the of a
fniall building near the centre of the whole,
and providentially received no hurt. A
coulin of Miss Frailey was close by hei
when she was struck, but received no in
jury. Thus, in a moment, as complete a
sett of works as any in the United State
were levelled to the ground—five perfon>
hurried into eternity, and the fixch in a ve
ry dangerous situation. The wife and
family of Bloom being left in the molt in
digent circumstances, any charitable dona
tion for their life will be thankfully receiv
ed by Thomas Forrfl, F.fquire, in German
town, Mr. Nathan Levering, in Roxborow.
or Hilary Baker, Esquire, in Philadelphia.
" The Printers of the Daily, and othei
papers, in Philadelphia, will render an el
t'ential service to the distressed and be
reaved family of Bloom, by republifhing
the foregoing true state of facts, that the
charitable and benevolent, by being ac
quainted with their situation, may be in
duced to relieve them."
Other European advices, additional t;
those under our foreign heads, are reduccc
to the following abltract. Prelimina
ries of peace have been (igned between the
republic of Venice and the regency ot Tu
nis—A fleet failed from Lift on about the
middle of June to cruise against the Alge
rines in the Mediterranean, having 0.1
board the Portugucfe ambaflador to the
court of Tunis —The National Afiirmbly hrx
decreed the transportation of all the non
juring clergy, as a matter of public —
The enemies of France were collecting fafl
toward the frontiers, and artillery anil eve
ry species of military stores were daily ar
riving, and every appearance of a serious
attack upon France in a lliort time—The
Ruffian ambafTador to Poland had delivered
the Empress's declaration to the Diet on the
18th ot May, stating, among many other
things, that the Kmpi'ef had ordered part
of her troops to enter the territories of the
republic, as friends, for co-operating in the
re-establishment of the rights and preroga
tives of the republic—The Dutclj were
drawing their tro&ps from the *arrifons to
form a body on the Austrian frontier, to acl
only 011 the defeniive, the state of parties in
the Seven Provinces not allowing the Stad:-
holder to join in the royal concert againli
France.
The supreme couit of the United States met
in this city on Monday lafl. It is said several
questions of magnitude arc agitating before the
courtat this time, aud such as include very ex
tensive importance.
[From Baltimore.]]
" THE time is fad approaching when
we (hall be called upon to fay, who lhall
represent us in the great national aflembly.
ro some this may appear a matter of small
moment, but to others it appears a matter
of the greareit importance, as in it our
welfare, as a nation, our respectability both
at home and abroad, nay our very liberties
as exilting in. our ltate government, are
materially involved.
If then it is a matter of such consequence
that we Ihould have virtuous and wife re
presentatives, let us diligently inspect the
abilities, wisdom, and integrity of those
who may offer themselves as candidates for
that high and honorable station.
The ltate of Maryland has hitherto been
fortunate in the choice of her representa
tives; abilities and virtue have hitherto
had a great influence upon the voice of the
people ; but how far or how long they may
continue to have their weight, is not in the
power of any man to fay. The great dan
gers arising from the powers veiled by the
conflitution in the executive branch of our
national government, are chiefly to be ap
prehended from the ignorance and corrup
tion of the representatives of the different.
Itates. If ever it once happen that the ma
jority of them are so weak in understand
ing, as to be led away by the artful and de
signing lchemes of the aristocratic few,
who, under the mail; of extending the pri
vilges.of the people, are laying the founda
tion of their own greatness ; or, if ever
once they become so venal, as that their
votes are capable of being purchased, fare
wel to American liberty ! Encroachments
on the Hate governments will immediately
ensue, and a confo'idation of the different
governments will be thedireft consequence.
These things may be objected to as scarce
ly pofflole of ever happening in this free and
enlightened country. Ala.. ! happy would
it be for mankind in general, if the hiltory
of patt nations (once as free and as enlight
ened as we are now) did not teltify the
contrary. Great-Britain is even at this ve
ry moment labouring under all the curses
of a government afflicted by the venality erf
its representatives. No sooner does an ac
tive, aspiring and ambitious man appear
on the popular fide, than he is immediately
darted at by the court party, who seldom
inifs their object, except he be something
mot e than mortal.
The great leading qualities of a repre
sentative ought to be wisdom and integrity.
If either of these are wanting, nothing can
compensate the loss. Riches, in a country
where all men are conltitutionally equal
(and where he who has no other quality to
recommend him ought to be despised even
111 common life) ihould have no weight in
the scale of a representative. When we
fee men possessed of this qualification, unac
quainted with any other, Italking forth and
offering themselves as proper objeßs of the
confidence of the people, I would ailt what
heart throbs not svithin ? who can contain
himfelf? with how much propriety might
we cry out, in the language of Cicero,
0 Tcmpora, 0 Mores ? Nothing would ope
rate with me as a Stronger argument to
p: ove the degeneracy and low ltate into
which a nation was fallen, than to fee men
of the call I have above described, meet
wig with the least countenance from the
people.
l Y.efe sentiments, however absurd or im
proper they may seem to some, have yet
llovved from a pure and honorable source,
Amor Patrice. 1 have no other object in view
but to put you, my fellow-citizens, on your
guard agamft Jucfi men, if they do offer ;
and I trull that in so doing, you will {hew
that honelt indignation which has hereto
iore chara£terized the citizens of this ltate,
ill : ejecting ihole who offer riches inltead of
merit or atj.lities, as a qualification for the
uac.onal legillature."
Copy of a letter fom James MAURY, Esquire,
Conjul of the United, StaUs at Liverpool, to thi
Seer eta y of State, daiecl Bth May, l 792.
6' / R,
I requeit vou to have it made known,
that no tobacco-laden vefl'el whatever, un
der one hundred and fifty tons regilter, can
enter an Irish port without being Subject,
with cargo, to confilcation, even if only
touching fbr orders to a market. This is
precil'ely the predicament of the Defiance,
capt.Ratton,touching atCork the 26th past,
or the otdei s of the conhgnee here —undct
Seizure for being under lize; but I hope
will be soon liberated.
I have the honor to be. See,
(Signed) JAMES MAURY.
[Intelligence from Baltimore, Augvfl 4.]
A gentleman of veracity, who arrived in
town late last evening, from Fort-Pitt, has
furmfhed us with the following melancholy
intelligence :—That on Sunday lait a faith
ful Indian, that served under Gen. St.
Clair, and was taken on the 4th of Novem
ber last, had arrived there—who informed,
that all the c.miniiffioners (Major Truman,
of this state, Col. Hardin, of Kentucky, and
others sent out to invite the Indians ;u
treaty, were mafl'acred by them ; —that a
Sergeant and 12 men, employed in making
hay, in the neighbourhood of Fort-Jefvr-
Son, were all cut offand that two light
horfeme , who were with them, barely es
caped into tbe fort,
It is mentioned In a letter fiom Columbia,
in Kentuckey, that the Indians continue to Heat
horses fiom the inhabitants, to as greatly to dis
tress the agriculture. Upwards of 3,000!. value
in horses is said to have been stolen since the fet
tling of this new country.
Venality and corruption are already Co
far advanced in this country, that, with
certain characters, it is thought impoffiblt:
lor a man in any the least degree connect
ed with government to ast, in other re
fpefts, from disinterested motives. Judging
from themselves, and what would be their
own conduct in a (imilar situation, they
luppofe every ast, word, and thought of
such a man must be rendered hypocritically
conformable to the ideas-os a fnppofed ma
jority in the government, which, according
to them, ought to maintain a complete so
vereignty over the minds of tho!e who may
have been appointed to the performance of",
r onje of its duties. When places and posts
are held 011 such conditions, and servility
becomes the leadirlg qualification, it may
easily be judged what will be the com
plexion of a government, and how far the
principles and motives of its various officers
are confident with the purity of a republi
can admiuiftration.
For the National Gazette.
THE melancholy howlings that have sots
Come time pail been heard through ths
dreary regiotH of the Gazette of the United
States, are a full and clear proof that all is
not right with certain lofty minded person?
chat fondly imagined their ambitious career
was to proceed, without check or interrup
tion, to the summit of their wilhes.
" The detil rageth when his time is
ihort." Tiie ensuing elections in many
places present profpefts not at all to the
liking of thole who will probably be difap—
pointedirt their plans for influencing them
as they expected. The hackneyed cry of
" the government is in danger," has been
too often repeated to have much efifeft, the
people by aftiug for themselves, feeing with
their own eyes,_.,-nd hearing with their own
ears will,it is hoped,keep in proper fnbiefti
an influence that has long been gathering
strength to the prejudice of the country at
large.
It is forefeen that the word mti federal will
be artfully used to prejudice the uninform
ed. Be it known then that 110 Inch party
as the antifederal exifls in the United States.
It is a word without a representative in so
ciety, and only to be found in the mouths
of interested characters, or their humble
servants, who fear a change in certain mea
sures, in which they fuppole the ruin of
their own importance will be involved.
The funding fyflem has had its day, and
it would be Itrange indeed if those who
have been benefited by such a fyftein would
not exert their tongues and pens in favou?
of that, and other degrading and pernicious
systems, 110 matter with how little truth,,
temper, or decency. It will be the part of
future legislatures, individually the rea!re*
preventatives of the people, try develops the
system of iniquity that has robbed the soldier
of his just dues, anfl in its various disguises
and consequences,hasnot spared to the or
phan, the widow, the halt or the blind, the
iielplefs or the infirm, the wretched pit
tance that opportunity presented a chanccj
of filching from their unsuspicious hands.
Philadelphia, August 6. L,
SUNDAT SCHOOLS<
THE Society for the inflitution ?.nd fuppo't
of Fiill-Day, or Sunday Schools in the
city of Philadelphia, and the dilliitb of South
wark and the Northern Liberties, having ellab-.
lifhed two schools for boys, under the care of
Mr. John Poor, and Mr. John Barry, and one
for girls, under the care of Mr. John Ely; the
Board of Vilitors do hereby earneflly solicit all
their fellow-citizens, who cannot otherwise avail
themselves of educating those under their care,
to fend them to those schools, to receive that
mfliuftion which is lo necelfary to qualify them
for ufefulnefsin civil society.
Firmly puifuaded of this great truth, that to
dill'eminate knowledge, isprepaiing mankind for
virtue, freedom, and happinels; the Board do
therelore also earnelily request, that all their fel
low-citizens who have experienced the advan- x
tages of education, will use their influence >vilh
those whose circumstances prevent the inftruftion
of their children, to fend them to thole schools,
that they may thereby derive the advantages
intended by the society.
Philadelphia, sth July, 1792.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS,
August, 1792-
D. H \ Bar. Ther. Wind. Weath.
Wcanefday, 1. 5 29. 75 67 IS. W. Cloudy,
c .29- 8 81 do- liain.
ThurJday, 2. 6 29. 9 69 N j Fair ~
2 30. o 79 N. E.| do.
Friday,. 3. 6 3°- 1 63 N. E. Fair.
4 3°- 12 "3 do. j do.
Saturday, 4. 6 30. i 64 N. W.'.Fair.
3°' ' 77 N. E.| do.
Sunday, 5. 6j 30. 1 66 E. ICloudy.
2 3"- ' S. E. j / clo.
Mcnday, 6. 6 30. o Jn.n.E. OVudy.
I _£ y_9 73 j do. j do.
Tuefdav, 7. G| 30. c 70 Calm ITor ,*
aj $ o. 1 S 7 ]S, W.I Fair:'CONSTANTIA,
SICK of the world, in prime of days
Conftantia took a serious fit—
Jiefolv d to fiiun all balls and plays
And only read what faints had writ—
To Bethleh walls (lie would repair
And be a jenfive fitter there.
A Tailor, loitering from his crew
As chance would have if, pafs'd along—*
She told him what /he had in view,
And he reply'd—" Fair maid, you're wrong)
4< Let faded nymphs to Bethiehem go
" Where kifi'es freeze and love is snow.
<f The barren oak and clufter'd pine ~"
<£ Afford a gloomy, fad ;
" But why that bloom of health resign*
I he mingled tint of red and white :
i( In cloifler'd cells the flowers expire
<( i hat on the plain all eyes admire.
cc With such..a pensive, pious train
\v ho, but a hermit, could agree—*
4C Ah, rather /lay to grace the plain,
* Or wander on the wave with me :
" For you the painted bark /hall wait
And I would die for such a freight."
No wandering seaman [/he replied]
Can tempt me to forego my plan j
No barque 13) at wafts him o'er the tide.
Nor many a better-looking man :
Go, wanderer, plough your gloomy sea,
ConflantJa must a filler be.
<f To gain fu fair a flower as you,
| The Tar returned] who would not plead ?—
J\or /hall you, nymph, to Bethlehem go
While love can write what you must read J
Come, to yon' meadow let us stray,
1 have some handsome things to fay'*—
Love has hiswi/h when reason fails—
In vain he figlTd, in vairi he strove :
" Forsake [said she] those fweliing fails
If you would have me—think of love .-
Great merit has your failing art,
But abl'ence would diftraft my heart."
What else war said, we secret keep ;
The Tar grown fonder of the /hare,
Negle&s his profpeCtson the deep,
And she of Bethlehem talks no more : •
He slyly quits the coasting trade j
She pities her—that dies a maid*
July 30.
rfdd'efs 1f the Constitutional Society of Mancbefttr
in Engiand, to the Club of Jacobins in France
by their Deputation delivered on tbt lyb ci
Jpnl. J J
" Brothers and Friends,
_ <c E feci a lively fatisfa£lion in communicat
ing to you the refulution by which our brethrer
Of the constitutional society of Manchester havi
appointed us their deputies to the patriotic socie
ties of Fiance. At the very moment when al
the despotic powers of Europe adt in concert t<
dertroy the cause of liberty, and to annihilate the
l ights of men, it will, no doubt, afford you plea
lure to know, that there exist every where (ever
in (hat country which the intrigues of Icings and
of courtiers have too often falfeiy represented a:
your enemies) men who ardently intefeft them-
Selves in your cause, not only as the cause ol
Frenchmen, but as the cause of all mankind,
" The lights which you have diffufed over the
true principles of politics, are the natural right!
of men, lights, which, from the judicious pofiti
c-n you have exhibited them in, 'begin to fnine
more brightly in England, and which ought to
convince us, that the time is come to abolish all
national prejudices, and to embrace as brothers,
free, men of all nations. Too long have the arti
fices of despots opposed themselves to nature, they
have falfeiy taught men to regard each other as
enemies.
" Addrefling the club of the Jacobins, not
merely as friends to the French conflitution, but
under the still more refpeftable name of frier,ds to
mankind, we fo.icit on behalf of the constitution
al society of Manchester, an amicable communi
cation and correspondence with them, as the con
tinuation at least, if not as the commencement,
of that general federation amongst the patriotic
societies of Europe, whose sole objefl is the pater
nal union of men. Our society will rejoice to
unite its efforts with yours, to spread abroad those
important principles of oniverfal liberty, which
alone can fix, on a firm and immoveable basis,
the empire of peace and the happiness of man
kind.
" We congratulate the Jacobin club on the in
voluntary homage which one of the despotic
courts of Europe has already rendered them, by
pointing them out as the most determined enemies
of arbitrary power.
_ " Pursue, gentlemen, your glorious philanthro
pic cause, and continue to deserve at once the ex
ecrations of tyrants, and the bleliings of the reft
of the human race !
(Signed) Thomas Cooper,
James Watt."
•' This address was received with unbounded
applause at every paragraph ; and the Prefidei.i
(M. De Carra, who tovk the chair as Vice-Prefi
dei.t, in the ablence of the focietj's Preliden:)
returned the following answer :
" Brethren and Friends,
" It is juff a century fn-.ce the English afforded
a glorious example to the universe, in humbling
the despotic piide of kings, and exhibiting the
iii ft glimpse of a declaration of the rights of mar
in their constitutional charter. At that time tin
other nations of the globs were surrounded with
the thick clouds of ignorance, and bent down un
der the galling yoke of the mofMhameful slavery.
At this day the Fiench have imitated it with a
degree of perfection, which it was certainly not
then poffiDle for you to attain ; their fuperioi
lyccefs arising from the natural and successive
projjrela of liuman reason.
<c Atthis day, it is th; English again, who
commence the general alliance of all nationj, an
a..iance which, we may reft aflured, will shortly
make one family of the whole human race. Yes,
brethren and friends ! the Englifli and the French
henceforward, and forever, united by the ties oi
justice and humanity, and the most tender affec
tion, will fight together as brothe.s, for the sup
port of their common liberty, and for the amelio
ration of their refpedive governments.
tf In vain the ebullition of despotic rage, a
mong the tyrants of Europe, flatters itfeJf as for
merly, to fee nations against nations, thereby to
augment the number of their slaves, or to gratify
their revenge. Ihe hour of these errors, and of
illusion, has patted away. National animosities,
fomented by the intrigues and imposture of courts,
are beginning to be extinguished. The French
people, the french loldiers, and the sailors, now
behold none but brethren among the fame clafTes
of the Engliih, whom they earnestly desire to em
brace, and contradl with them upon the pure gos
pel of the rights of man, an eternal compadt oi
concord and peace. Already the Englifli flag, re
united and entwined with the three-coloured
of France, and the starry flag of the brave Amer
icans, is fulpended from the roofs of almost eve
ry patriotic locieiy in France j already numerous
civic feafts have been ceiebrated, in almost ever)
department of this empire, consecrating the alli
ance which we have sworn to observe with all th
patriots of England, in the person of the deputici
of the celebrated town of Manchester.
<l Friends ! tell your fellow citizens —tell youi
countrymen—tnofe men whom the genius of in
dustry and of patriotism have rendered so praise
worthy, and fodear to every jover of the arts, of
commerce, and of humanity—tell them ! you
have here beheld Frenchmen, whose natural char
acter has long been kept under by slavery, but
now arisen and displayed bv the most energetic
sense of their lights and of "their liberty—breath
ing philanthropy, looking upon all mankind as
brethren, upon every people as their iclations-
Tell them, that our courage, and our perfeverancc,
are not to be surmounted, andrthat we are detei
mined to aup to the oath we have taken, to
LIVE FREE, OR DIE.
" Tell them again, though the tyrants of Eu
rope redouble their rage, that the politics of ths
true patriots of France, of the Jacobins, to dread
ed by the traitors and enemies of liberty, do no'
consist in desiring the glory and the prosperity ol
the countries which gave them birth, but'the
profpfrity and the liberty of every nation upon
earth. \ es, this is the perpetual unremitting ob
jett of the French Jacobins, that is, of a very
great majority of the whole nation ; and in virtue
of this happy disposition, the friends of the con
stitution at Paris, in this our name, arid in the
name of all the patriotic societies of the Frcnch
empire, tie themselves bj- an invariable promi ft
to the conft:tutionaJ society of Manchester.
" 1 his aflembly invites you to aflift at their
fittings during the whole of your stay at Paris.
The society, on ordering these two fpeeehes to
be printed, also ordered copies of them to be sent
to all its affiliated societies, as also to the consti
tutional society at Manchester, the 13th of April,
I 791, in the fourth year of liberty.
(Signed) Carra, Vice-Prefident.
Ducos and Saladin,
Deputies to tTie National Aflembly.
Dz Perry Rot and D'Oppet, Secretaries.
"" mmmtrr ■ ■ x-nrrmjc-wt
To be pullijhed by Sulfcription,
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR
proceedings of the
Oid
From their firft Meeting in September 177/],
to theii final dilFolution in March 1789,
C COMPRISING at full length, every impor
j tant resolution, order, address, declaration,
contained in the thirteen volumes of their
journals—a concile summary of the less interest
ing parts,—an alphabetical lift of appointments,
promotions and resignations—a collective viewin
the public expenditures, &c. &c the whole in
tended to serve as a fatisfadtory fubrtitute for the
original joWnals, which are now out of print, and
o which the entire substance, unincumbered with
official formalities and repetitions, will here be
given in about one fourth of .their present bulk,
accompanied with one complete genera! Index:--
To which will be added, a copious and valuable
collection of original
Cstate
from the Records and Files of Congress,
Containing (either verbatim,or in abftraft,
as the cases may severally require) such inteiert
n.g pieces referred to in the journals, as may with
propriety be permitted to be made public, viz.
Letters from the different officers employed in
the public ferv.ee during the late war-intercept
ed letters of the enemy—communications from
governors, ftate.llegidatures, conventions, and
committees—dispatches from agents and com
mfffioners—inftruflions--- reports of committees
ot Congress; and various other authentic docu
ments, tending to throw a light on the important
events, to which America owes her present inde
pendence. *
In the cou.fe of the work, will be introduced,
in their proper places, such parts of the
Oecret J^oarnah,
as no longer require secrecy.
As soon as 500 copies are fubferibed for, the
work will be put to press, to be delivered to fub
fctibers, in numbers of 304 octavo pages each, at
One Dollar, in blue boards. Th- Sub
fcription wcncy not be required for the firfl
Number, until the publication is begun; and
on the delivery of each number, half a dollar will
be expectedl in advance for the succeeding one.
0 non-fubfcr.bers, the price will be nifed.
• wi " be received by the prin.
cipal booksellers throughout the Unior,, and by
vT d o J° HN CAREY.
Ao. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
THIS DAY is published,
And for Sale at the Printing-Office,
No. 20~>, Market-Street,
and at Thomas Dobfon's Book-Store ii
Second-Street,
Price Three-Eighths of a Dollar,
ADVICE
TO THE
PRIVILEGED ORDERS,
in the
SEVERAL STATES of EUROPE
Resulting from the neceflity and pro
priety of a General Revolution in
the Principle of Government.
By Joel BArlow, Efljuire.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale by the Printer,
JohnM'Culloch, at No, i. Nor;h Third
Street, and by most of the Book-
Sellers in this city,
(Price 3/9)
MODERN CHIVALRY:
Containing the
Adventures of Capt. John Farrago
and
Teague O'Regan,
his Servant.
volume 11.
By H. H. BRACKEN 11IDGE.
Ouicqmd agunt Homines, nojlri, Farrago libelli.
Juvenal
BO O K
Printed and fold by
MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
J. American Museum, from its ecmmencemen
in January 1787, to December 1791, in ten vols
Price, neatly bound and letteied, flxteen dollars.
This work, which is noio conduced on an im
proved plan, containing the best pieces publifoedf'ol
and again/1 the proceedings of government, will b
found to contain at leajl as great a variety of poli
tical, agricultural, andmtjcellaneous ejjays, as an]
ever publijhed in America. Perhaps in no one won
are so many valuable documents reJpeßtng the hiflo
ry of this country, colleßed together. His excel
tency the President of the Vr.itcd States, Las de
clared of it, that " a more nfeful literary p|ji
has never been undertaken in America, nor oni
more delerving of public encouragement." Th,
fubfeription is two dollars and a half per annum
Gentlemen in the country who wish to b: fufpliet
with this work, are rcquefled to give commiffton t
friends in the city to fubferibe for and receive it.
2. Laoies 1 Pocket Library—containing \—MiJ,
More's Efj'ays ; Gregory's Legacy ; Lady Pen
nmgtons advice-, Marchioness of Lambert's ad
vice ; Swift's tetter to a newly married !ady :
Mrs. Chapcne on command of temper ; Mire's fa
bles for the ladies Price 6/6.
3. Smith's History of New-York, fom itsfirl.
r ettlcment to the year 1732. To which is annexed,
1 dc/cript ton of the country, with tz snort -accourji
f the inhabitants, their religious and politicalftatc,
md the conjlirution of the courts of juflice Price
1 dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by fames Beat
ie, L.L.D. prefefjor of moral philofopby and logic
1 the Marifcbal College, Aberdeen—Price three
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Critical Re
viewers ( vol. 69. p. (,1%) fay : « V/e lave jeer,
tithing on these fubjecls more plain, more perfpicu
is, or more genera ly ufeful."
5. Beauties of Poetry, British and American,
ontainingfcleE} productions of the mojl eminent Bri
ifh and American poets. Price four fifths of a dol.
6. Blair s Sermons, containing the whole of the
hree volumes of the Briti/b edition, in t wo. 'Price
wo dollars.
_ 7- Neckar's Tteatife on the importance of reli
\ions opinions. Priclfour fifths of a dollar.
S. Examination of the cbfervations of Lord Shef
ield's on American Comma ce. Price, on very fine
taper, five eighths of a dollar.
9. The Constitutions of the several United States,
ivtth the federal Conjtitution, &e. Price five
igh'hs of a dollar.
10 M'l ingal, an epic poem, a new edition in
Imo. Price three eighths of a dollar.
it. American Jed Book, in two parts, with
■wo very neat engravings. Price bound, three
fifths of a dollar.
12. Garden of the Sou!, by Bi/hop Chajcnor
Price, bound plain, half a dollar, in calf and let
red three quarters of a dolltt, plain „ -2dol.
13. The Douay Translation of the vulgate Bi
':le. in quarto. Pi ice, elegantly bound and lettered.
50/2 —plain, fx dollars.
Said Carey has for sale, a large assortment oj
books, European as well as American editions,
which he will dfpofe of on the mofireafnable terms.
Country gentlemen, who favor him with commands,
may depend ufor. being J'upplicd in the mejl fatisfac
tory manner. A liberal allowance to fucb as pur
chafe quantities for public libraries, or to fell again.
May 17 1 . 6m.la.w.
NEW-YORK & PHILADELPHIA STAGE S
Via Bordenton and Burlington,
And SHREWSBURY & PHILADELPHIA
STAGE,
Via Bordenttn.
THE proprietors of the New-York and Phi
ladelphia land and water Stages beg leave to
mention, til a t for the better accommodation of
paflengers, they have thought proper to remove
the different packet boats from their former stand,
at the Crooked Billet wharf, to the wharf or dock
immediately next below Arch-street, from whence,
on the firft day of July next, and afterwards, a
convenient packet-boat will start for New-York,
as usual, on every Sunday, Ti»:fday, Wednesday
and I'hurfday, and return on every Tuefda},
Thursday, Fiiday and Saturday. The paflage to
be made eithci by the way of Porder.ton or Bur-
ungfon,each plac? to be taker/alternately.
or pafiengers from Philadelphia to
15s. —For Goods pr. cwc. 6s.
VAN EiMBURGH & M'KE AN,
DAVID WILLIAMSON,
Proprietors of the line of New-York and Phi
ladelphia Stages, by the route of Cordenton.
JACOB MYERS,
-AMOS HUTCHIN,
NICHOLAS SCHENK,
Proprietors of the line of N. York and Phila
delphia Stages, by the route of Burlington.
The Shrewsbury Stage will leave Philadelphia
in the months oI July and Septembar, on every
Sunday and Wedneflay, and return on every
TuefJay and Friday. Jn the month of August,
it wiill leave Philadelphia on every Sunday and
Thursday, and return on every Tuesday and Sa
turday.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
DANIEL LOT,
i roprietors of the Shrewsbury and Philad. Stage.
Rordentcivn, June 25, 1792.
*or freight or paflage apply to the raafters on
u( ard, or to M'KEAN & VAN EMBURGH,
at their ftoreoniaid wharf, immediately next be
low Arch-Street ;by übom orderjfor the purchase
of all kinds of grain, Jiavesy or other country pro
ducey are punctually attended to.
For freight or pafiage to Lamberton or Tien
ton, also apply as above. law t
l J bi/ade/f>bia, June 27.
SocUty for ejiabhfiing ufeful Manufactures»
N O7 ICE is hereby given to the holders oJL
liock in the said lociety, that the
arrangement has been made by the Deputy C I
crro" ano Directors thereof, by a resolution of
he eighteenth day of May, 1792.
The second intfalment fox tne payment of ihare*
in the stock of this focigty, be made in the
jollowiug manner, viz.
The amount of the said f;cor,d in/talment, be
ing 20 13-ico dollars each (hare, may be paid in
three payments, on condition that tbe lawful in
terest of 7 per cent, per annum, be calculated
and paid with each proportionate part or the laid
payment, that i> to fay, on or before the thir—
t;enth day of Au c -uft next, the sum of 6
with the addition of 12 cents, being the nuereft
one nr.nth on ao 13-100 dollars—on or be
fore the 13th cf September next, the sum of 6
71-100 dollars, with the addition of S cents, be
i.jg tne inte eft lor one month on 13 42-100 dol
lars—and on or before the 13th of October next,
ihi sum of 6 71-100 dollars, with the addition of
4. cents, beirj tne interell on the lame for one
The said payments are to be mane at the
following places, viz. In the city of Philadelphia,
u the bank of the United States—at New-Brunf
wick, in New-Jeriey, to John Bayard, or ]oha
Neillon, Elqts—and in the city of New-York, at:
the bank or New-York, or either of the said
places, which may be most convenient to the
Itock holders.
By order of the dire&ion,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerk.
J"'y 2 4- tr.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Subscriber has it in contemplation soon
to decline his prefern business — and having on
hand a confiderabJ t quantity of fuperfine fecoud
and elastic cloths, together with a variety of other
articles in his way, piopofes to fell them at the
following rcduccd pees, VIZ.
Best Superfine navy blue
Ditto, ditto. Scaiiet gg
Common colours fuperfine - 2 "/;
Elastic llripes _
London buff and white caffimers 15/6.
Ditto, coloured do. j
Yorkshire do. ' do. i?/S.
Striped toilenets j
Rrttinets A'
Striped Nankeens : *[._
A variety ofwaitlcoat fliapes proportionably low
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London best silk We, from" 22/6 to 24/".
The above goods have been mostly imported from
me ot the firit mercantile houses in London, and
ire ot an equal quality o any imported intoAme
ica; they will be fold per pieceor smaller quan-ity
is may best suit the purchalers , by the publics
■noli: humble servant, JOHN SHEPHERD.
CfpAny person dilpukd to purchase the whole
>f the above stock, may also have on reasonable
ermS his prefertt cwelling house together with
lie a more c!ig:b.e lunation for business in
:lie tailor s line is not to be found in this city.
The advantage of this business being so well eft
..lifted by the proprietor will be very grat, ami
nom yvell known fa£ls, needs no comment.
A lease of fix years may be had of the house.
'4. Ir . tf-
A George Team, June 2, 1702.
. UMoER ot LOTS in every /ituation
Wnich may be desired in the city of Wafii
logion, will be offered for sale, by the Commif
-1 loners on Monday the Bth day of Oaober next.
One fourth part of the purchase money to be
paid down, the residue in three equal annual pa"-
ments, with yearly interest on the whole princi
pal unpaid. JOHN M. GANTT,
July 25. Clerk to the CommtiTioners.
-
*t* Three handsome Editions of the Latv
of the United States for sale at this ojfic*
(No. 209 Market Jlrect) in folio and ofia e
vo, either full or half bound—N.B. Th
Laws of the lajl SeJJlon, in ofiavo only, ma»
be price three eighths of a dollar,.
** For fait at this Office, Sermons by
the llev'c Dr. William Lin:i, of N. York
Price 5/7 i-2.
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S AND SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE NO. 209 . HI C H-S TRE E T
MAR FIFTH-STREET,
4'HIL ADEEPii J,A»