V-
Vol. I.
Report on MancjactWes.
(Continued,)
THE continuance of bounties on ma
nufa&ures long eftabhfhed, muftalmoft
alwavs be of questionable policy : Be
cause a presumption would arise in
every such cafe, that there were natu
ral and inherent impediments to fuc
cess. But in new undertakings the)
are as juftifiable, as they are ofrentime 1
necessary.
There is a degree of prejudice againfl
bounties from an appearance of giving
away the public money, without an im
mediate confideratioiij and from a fup
poiition, that they serve to enrich par
ticular classes, at the expence of th<
community.
But neither of thef: sources of dislike
■will bear a serious examination. There
is no purpose to which public inone)
can be more beneficially applied, thar
to the acquisition of a new and ulefu
branch of iaduftry ; no confideratior
wore valuable than a permanent, addi
tion to the general stock of produitivt
labor.
As to tbe second source of obje£liori
it equally lies against other modes o
encouragement which are admitted tc
'be eligible. As ofren as a duty upon ;
foreign article makes an addition to it:
price, it causes an extra ex pence to the
community, for the benefit of the do
meftic manufacturer. A bounty doe:
no more. But it is the intereftof tbe
society in each cafe to submit to a tcm
porary expence, which is more thai
compensated, by an encreafe of indul
try and wealth, by an augmentation o
resources and independence ; and b\
the circumitance of eventual cheap
ness, which has been noticed in ano
titer pUci. —
It wou}d deserve attent ; on, however
in the employment of this ipeciesofen
courageroent in the United States, as;
icafon for moderating the degree of ii
in the instances in which it might bf
deemed eligible, that the great diftanct
of this country from Europe impofei
very h;avy charges on all the fabric:
which are brought from thence, a
mounting from 15 to 30 per cent, cr
their value, according to their bulk.
A question has been made concerning
the conthtutional right of the govern
ment of the United States to apply thi:
species of encouragement, but there 1:
certainly no good fouudation for fuc!
a question. The national legifiatun
has express authority "To lay ant
collect taxes, duties, imposts, and ex
cifes, to pay the debts and provide so:
the comvion defence and general welfare,'
with no other qualifications than tha
'■ all duties, imposts, and exciles, fhal
be uniform throughout the United States
that no capitation or other direst ta>
shall be laid unless in proportion t<
numbers ascertained by acenfusor enu
meration taken on the principles pre
scribed in the constitution, and tha
no tax or duty shall be laid on article:
exported from any state."
These three qualifications excepted
the power to raffe money is plenary an<
tndefnite; and the objects to which i
may be appropriated are no less compre
henfive, than the payment of the pub
lie debts and the providing for the com
mon defence and general welfare. The
terms " general welfare" were doubt]ef'
intended to fignify more than was ex
pressed or imported in tliofe which pre
ceded ; otherwise numerous exigencies
incident to the affairs of a nation wouk
have been left without a provision.
The phrase is as comprehenlive as an\
that could have been used ; because it
was not fit that the constitutional au
thority of the union, to appropriate it;
revenues should have been reftrifted
within narrower limits than the " gene
ral welfare and because this neceTa
rily embraces a vast variety of particu
lars, which are susceptible neither oi
fpecification nor of definition,
T H U R S D A Y, i 79 2.
It is therefore of necessity !,-ft to the
• lifcretion .of the national legislature.
0 pronounce, up<in the objetts, which
concern the genet al welfare, and foi
which, t'tidcif thjt dcteription, an ap
propriation of moiiev is requisite anc
proper.—And the;.: fcems to be n'
room sot a doubfc that whatever con
rrrns f'hc genet,-d i.-.teru-fts' of r eait>:
1S«, of AtRtCV I.TU RE, of MAN UFA C
TVP.P.S, and of Commerce, ara withir
i le sphere of the national councils, c
Kir as regards an afiblscation of money.
1 lie only qualification of the gene
rality cf the phraie in queflion, whicl
seems to be admiitlblc. is this—Tha
die object to which an appropriation o
money 13 to be in.'uie be general and no
'"'■rd; Its operation extending in fad, 01
iv pofiibility throughout the union, ant
:iot being confined to a particular spot
No o'ojeftion ought to arise to thi
-011 (trufition from a fjppdfition that i
.vill imply a power !o do whatever el it
hould appear to Congrcfs conducivt
0 the general welfare. A power to ap
jropriate money \yith this latitude
A-hich is granted too in express ttrms
-vould not carry a power to do am
nh'cr thing,. not authorised in the con
1 itution, eitlier expressly or by fair im
jlication.
V. Premiums.
These are of a nature allied to boun
ies, though distinguishable from then
n lome important features.
Bounties are applicable to the whoh
juantity of an article produced or ma
mfaftured, or exported, and involve ;
orrefpondent expencc Premium
erve to reward some particular excel
er.ee or fuperioritv, lome extraordina
v - : tion or fkiil, and are difpcnlif
>n!y m a 1: i;;TI number of cases : Bu'
heir effect is to flimulate general ef
011—contrived so as to be Doth hono
■ary and lucrative, they address them
elves to different passions ; toucEin;
,iie chords as well of emulation as o:
nfrercft.—They are accordingly a very
economical mean of exciting tiie enter
prileof a whole community.
1 here arc various societies in differ
;r.t countries, whole object is the dif
penfationof premiums for the encou
ragement of agriculture, arts, manufac
ture, and commerce ; and though they are
for the moil part voluntary ali'ociations
with comparatively slender finds, theii
utility has been immense. Much ha<
been done by this mean in Great-Bri
tain : Scotland in particular owes mate
rially to it a prodigious amelioration bi
condition. PYom a similar eftablifh
merit in the United States, supplied anc:
supported by the government of the
union, vast benefits might reafonabl)
le expeftcd.—Some further ideas or
this head, shall accordingly be submit
ted, in the conclusion of this report.
VI. The exemption of thi materials' o J
nanufaElures from duty.
1 he policy of that exemption as a ge
neral ride, particularly in reference it
new establishments, is obvious. It car
hardly ever be advisable to add the oh
(tru&ions of fifcal burthens to the difii
culties which naturally embarrats a nev\
manufacture ; and where it is mature<
and in condition to become an obje&o
revenue, it is generally speaking bettei
that the fabric, than the material, fhouk
be the fubjeft of taxation.—ldeas o:
proportion between the quantum o:
the tax and the value of the article, car
be more easily adjusted in the formei
than in the latter cafe. An argument
for exemptions of this kind in the Uni
ted States, is to be derived from the
pra&ice, as far as their necefiities have
permitted, of those nations whom wc
are to meet as competitors in our own
and in foreign markets.
1 here are however exceptions to it :
of which some examples will be given
under the next head.
The laws of the union afford instan
ces of the observance of the-policy here
By PHI LI P '■ REN E A IT.
recommended, but it will probably be
found adviiable (o extend it to some
other cases—Os a nature, bearing (ome
salinity to thatpohev, t-s the regulafior
which exempts f :<vtn duty the tools an<
implements, as we.'l as tiie books,
and houfhold furniture of fo
artiks, who.comc to rcfide in the
lotted States; an advantage alreach
(• cured to them .by the laws of flu
u:iion, ana which, it is, in every view
proper to continue.
VII. Drirrrba'i r rf th> duties zuJ.iJ
" rf i'Hp'lf 'd on tne vtcfettals vj- vtanufac
(ires.
It has already fc.ecn observed as age
n.ittl r • ilc, that outies on those inatcri
3'S, ought with ccjtain exceptions tc
o'* foroorns. Of these exception:;
three cases occur, which may serve a:
- am pies—One, where the material 1:
it/'-lf an object of general or extensive
ronfumption, and a fit and productive
oarce of revenue—Another, where ;
r mufacture of a simpler kind, the corn
-3; tition of which with a like domeftie
micle is desired fobs retrained, par
a ies of the nature of a raw material
toot being capable, by a-further pro
"e!s to be converted into a manufactur;
> f a different kind, the introduction oi
;rov.-th of which as desired to be encou
r -A third, where the material it
elt is a production of. the country
in'lin fufficient abundance to furnilh ;
rheapand plentiful supply to the na
.ional manufacturers.
Under the firfl dcfcription comes the
Miicje of molasses. It is not only i
! .i: r object of revenue, but being a sweet
;t s ju ft that the conlumers of it fhoule
i.' a duty as well as the consumers o
■ V & r - ; • V
C ottons ar.d linen in their white Rate
all under the second dcfcription—A
iuty upon such as are imported is pro
:>er to promote the domeftie manufac
■ure of limilar articles in the fame state
t drawback of that duty is proper te
:t courage the printing and fiaining a
lomfc of those which are brought fron
ibi oad. Vv hen the firft of these manu
d£tares h.as attained fufficient maturity
n a country, to furnifii a full fuppl)
"or the second, the utility of the draw
jack ceafcs.
The article of hemp either now doe
>r may be expected soon to exemplify
he third cafe in the United States.
Where duties on the materials of ma
lufactures are not laid for the purpoft
>f pre venting « competition with form
lomcftic production, the fame rcafon
vhich recommend, as a general rule
he exemption of those materials fron
iuties, would recommend as a like ge
leral rule, the allowance of drawbacks
n favor of the manufacturer : Accord
ugly, such drawbacks are familiar it
rountries which fvftematically pursue
he business of manufactures; wftic!
"urnifhes an argument for the obfer
vance of a similar policy in the Unitec
States j and the idea has been adoptee
ay the laws of the union, in the instance
)f fait and molasses. It is believed tha
t will be found advantageous to extenc
t to some other articles.
V 111. The encouragement ofnerv invert
'ions and discoveries, at home, and of ih
introduction into the United States cj fuel
is may have been made in other countries.
Particularly those which relate to machinery,
This is among the moftufeful ane
unexceptionable of the aids which car
>e given to manufactures. The ufua
neans of that encouragement are pecu
-liary rewards, and, for a time, exclu
r ive privileges. The firft must be em
ployed, according to the occasion, anc
the utility of the invention, or discove
ry. For the last, so far as respects " au
thors and inventors," provision has beer
made by law. But it is defirabl? in re
gard to improvements and secrets of ex
traordinary value, to be able to extend
the fame benefit to introducers, as well
as authors and inventors; a policy
which has been r practifed with advan
tage in other countries. Here, howe
ver, as in some other ca r es, there is
caule to regret, that the competency of
the authority of the national govern
ment to the good, which might ho done,
is not withe it a question. Many aids
might be given to industry ; many in
tf r j ia I improvements of primary magni
tude might be promoted, by an authori
ty operating throughout the union,
which cannot he cilected, as well, if at
.ill, by an au-.horitv confined within the
limirs of a fmgle l>'ate.
But if the legiijature of the Union
cannot do ail the good that might be
wifiied. it is at leal! ddireable, that .ill
may be done which is practicable.
Means lor promoting the introduction
foreign improvements, though lei's
• fficacioufly than might be accoinplifh
d with more adequate authority,' will
orin a part of the plan intended to be
übmitted m the clo£e of this leport.
It is customary with manufacturinp
nations to prohibit, under severe penai->
;ias, the exportation of implements and
machines, which they have either in
dented or improved. There are alrea
dy objects for a similar regulation in the
United States; and others may be ex
pected to occur from time to time. The
idoption of it seems to be dictated by
he principle of reciprocity. Greater
iberality in such respects might better
comport with the general spirit of the
country ; but a felfilh and exclusive po
uicy in other quarters will not always
permit the free indulgence of a spirit,
which would place us upon an unequal
footing. As far as prohibitions tend
to prevent foreign competitors from
teriSTng-the benertTS~Of the improve
ments made at home, they tend to en
-lcale the advantages of those by whom
hey may have been introduced ; and
operate as an encouragement to exer
:ion.
IX, Judicious regulations for the irfpec~
iion of manufallured commodities.
This is not among the least important
i)fthe means, by which the prosperity
d! manufactures may be promoted. It is
indeed in many cases one of the most
:lfential. Contributing to prevent
frauds upon consumers at home,
portersto foreign countries'—to improve
:he quality and prelerve the character
ihe national manufactures, it cannot
fail to aid the expeditious and advanta
geous lale of them, and to serve as a
against fuCcefsful competition
from other quarters. The reputation
d 1 the flour and lumber of some
and of the potash of others, has been
sflablifhed by an attention to this point.
A.nd the like good name might be pro
:ured for those articles whereloever pro
duced, by a judicious and uniform fyf
em of infpeftion, throughout the ports
)f the United States. A like system
night also be extended with advantage
0 other commodities.
X. The facilitating of pecuniary remit
'ances from place to place—
is a point of considerable moment to
irade in general, and to manufattures in
particular ; by rendering more easy the
purchase of raw materials and provifi
3ns, and the payment for manufa&ured
supplies. A general circulation of
bank paper, which is to be expected
from the institution lately eftablilhed
will be a moll valuable mean to this
nd. But much good would also ac
-1 rue from some additional provisions.
refpefting inland bills of exchange. If
those drawn in one ftatepayable in ano
ther were made negotiable, every where,
and interest and damages allowed in
cafe of protest, it would greatly promote
negociations between the citizens of
different states, by rendering them more
Secure; and, with it the convenience
and advantage of the merchants aacl
manufacturers of each.
(See UJI page.)
Numb. 20.£x,t p.acts Jrovz t)i' Levdf n Gazette.
&c.—Sept. 9-*-°c-^-30.
THE proceedings of the national as
f-mbly in oppOsition to flrict republi
<anifm, have 'plainly manifested then
intention that the confutation shall Iran:,
or fall with Jhe revolution. They have
elfo determined seriously to restore tr
the executive, if not its former Iplen
dor. at lead a fufficiencv of energy tc
preserve the public peace and good ol
der. In leaving out of the conflitutioi
the article concerning the right o
granting pardons, they showed a propc
deference to the wish of the t ing, whon
the nation is willing to consider the de
finder, as well as the restorer of the li
berries of France. Three circun-illan
res occur at present in efiablifhini
the baopinefs of the nation upo:
the success of the conflitution : 'J he!<
?Te, the king's acceptation thereof
the j-i-neral pacification abroad ; aiu
the judicious choice of members for th
rew legislature. The queen and ma
<iime Elizabeth have made the bell o
matters, but have fullered much in part
ing with some of their fparigles of roy
f,l,y—[he king seems to carry oh th
iol's of absolute authority with a cole
indifference; and from hence it ma\
be inferred, that women, in general
find it much harder to part .with powe
than men, if their external behaviou 1
on such occasions may be admitted a
a tefl of their feelings. Previous to tht
king's acc-ptatioh of the conlVitution
the queen saw rr any difficulties in th
vuvof the combirted princes from coin
ple'telv restoring the old government
If they had failed, the circumstances o
the royal family would have been mrcl
v. orfe than at present ; had they fuc
ceeded. they would mod atFuredly have
governed Francc themielves. or at leaD
obliged Louis 16th to become thei:
creature. Mort si 'ur (the king's brother
it is said, would have been regent, and
the count d'Artois, lieutenant-genera
of the kingdom, and commander ir
chief of the land and sea forces. M. dt
Noaill.es' report on the state of the ar
my is publilned, and is very alarming
it is, however, much exaggerated ir
point of their bad state, and therefore
not regarded with much attention. A;
to the View representatives, they arc en
l'ghtened characters, virtuous, and
of moderation, and may therefore b<
expe&ed to reap the fame success frorr
their labors as their predecessors in le
giflation.
Berlin, Sept. 8. It is generally fup
poled here," that at the late conference:
held at Filnitz, where the affairs oi
Poland were discussed between tht
king of PrulTia, the king of Poland, anc
the°e!c£lor of Saxony, there was lef.
said in opposition to the new conilitu
tion which Poland has given nerfeli.
than some ha.ve imagined. The rca
object of this particular conference was.
a reciprocal renunciation of any pre
fences to the crown of Poland, in cafe
the elcftor should die without leaving
male issue ; which pretences, if the;
fnould take effcfl, would have some in
fluence in causing a war, to prelervi
the balance of power in Europe. A?
to the French affairs, the presence oi
M. d'Artois and M. de Calonne are i
fufficient proof that they have not beer
palled over in silence. Advices fron
Dresden positively assure us, that a re
l'olution has palled to attempt nothing
at present by force of arms with a view
to overturn the new conflitution, full
consideration having been taken on tht
uncertainty of the event, the difficulty
of nroceeding on such an expedition
and the danger that would inevitably
attend even success itfelf.
Warfare, Sept. 15. Previous to the
emperor's leaving Vienna for the con
ference at Filnitz, h h i flipulated
with his Prussian majesty, that their re
fpeftive courts should recognize as firm
and valid, the hew conflitution of Po
land, ratified on the third of May, 1791 ■
particularly that article relative to the
i'accefiion. It v.- »•; further agreed, that
both the foverrh-ns should renounce, in
the name of then 101:3, all views of ap
pending the crown of Poland to their
own families, by means of the Princefi
of Saxony, infanta of Poland. The
empress of RulliatoK alio invited to
make the fame flipuiation for her de
fendants. It is thought by some that
certain neighboring powers will de
mand some explanation on the subject
of fuccefiion, as well as on the armed
forcc kc::I up L> t' ■ '-'.0, mount
ing to an hundr:dthpufan<i men. It i
hoped the prudence o! Stanillans Au
gustus. added to the wiidom of lu>
counf dlors,' may overcome every ob
(lacle to the permanent and cpmp'letc
lie ppiiefs of our country.
-t-cyden, Sept. 29. It is fomewbat
O range tb.at the Declaration ligned b)
the Emperor and the King of Prussia, a
Pilnitz, which is, in fad, 110 more thai
merely conditional* lhould have beer
counted upon bv the l'rench Princes ;v
u> absolute pro-nife to restore the ok
government in 1 ranee. 1 hey speak thus
;ntheir letter to their brother, the Kinj
of Franfe —" In conl'equence of our re
monftranccs, the powers of Europe havt
determined to fTrjjlov the:!' colleger
strength againfi the Wench nation ; the
Emperor and the King of Prussia, it
particular, have entered into a recipru
cal enya'jement for this purpofc. —
With what -face can these Princes eVei
return to France, under faVour ol t i
general amnesty, after having done ;lr::i
utmost; to lay waste their country, mere
ly to gratify a rcfentinrnt a-*ainlt ttie na
tion for having recovered its liberties !
When men will go lach lengths to re
gain the lols of power ana family Confe,
qnence. it is no wonder that all well re
gulated governments begin to lay it dowr
as an essential principle in politics, tha'
no man Hull be entr.lfted in any degree
with a species of power that renders hirr.
independent of the will of the people,
The letter of the Princes to the King,
their brother, will rem lir. a lading mo
nument of family-folly.
Pcrfons of curiofily, and fuc:i ar. arC
Fond of reading trefh news from forergfl
parts, will regret, that through a great
part of the north of Europe, there is
not a fmgle Gazette in existence. to aF
tord them even a limited detail of the
various interesting events continually
taking place in those parts. At \v ar
faw it!elf. there is never any thing oi
the fort published except some obfeure
paragraphs, almost always contradicto
ry and proved falle by succeeding ac
counts. Hence we are wholly in the
dark, on the affairs of the regenerate'!
kingdom of Poland.— lo obviate tin;
fhameftil defect. two gentlemen have
let out for Warsaw v.'i'h ?n intention te
publish a newl'paper four time- a week
in that city, to begin the fifteenth ot
September. The editors are determin
ed to support the liberty of the prefsto
the utmost (one of the privileges grant
ed by the new Polilh conftituuon) and
to publish every species of information
that can be ufeful to mankind, without
falling into that Ijcentioufnefs, so com
mon in our days, which almost juftinos
the severe measures some governments
take in restraining the pi els altogether.
The restoration of the' Jews to the
rights of free citizcnfhip in France is
one of the mcft shining a£Ls in the whole
proceedings of that celebrated body,
the national affemhly. It must be con ■
feffed, however, they are po'.lelled ol
unexampled effrontery, in daring to
proceed in direst opposition to certain
ancient prophecies relative to the Jew
ish people. Many begin to think, that,
if these prophecies be authentic, they
are to be understood in a figurative ra
ther than a literal sense :
Thus, the promile to the Jews that
they should be restored to their original
country after a certain number of ages
spent in wandering up and down the
world, means in all probability, not that
they shall be sent back to the miferablc
rocky territory called JudeaorPalcftme,
but in after times (which times, it may
be supposed, are now beginning) that
mankind in general should become fuffi
ciently enlightened to set a fide partial and
cruel laws enabled in barbarous ages:
and be convinced, that the supreme
power created all mankind brethren,
and sheds his natural bounties alike up
on all, whether Jews, Chriftians,Turks,
Indians, or Chinese. If the Supreme
Being has been thus impartial and, his
bencvolence univcrfal, man therefore
ihould imitate him in thisrefpeft, andnc
longeruphold those odious di ftinct-.ons.
and countenance those doubtful prophe
cies which have been kept in credit foi
so many ages past merely by the policy
of pri'.-fts and despots, whose custom it
has constantly been in the great game
for the rights of mankind, to play intc
each others hands, and to arcompLiJh al
most whatever predictions they pleased,
of this kind, bv a union of their forces.
PHI LADELPHI A,
C ONG'RESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, Jan. z.
The bill for extending the time limi
ted for fettling the accounts of the Uni
ted States with the individual states.
was read a third time, and lent to the
Senate for their concurrence.
The petitions of Jimanual Ebbs and
William Haffell were read, praying
covnpenfation for iervices renocr-d
during the war, in the army ot the
United States.
Alio a memorial of Benjamin Lin
"oln. for hunfelt, Cyrus Griffin, and
IJavid Humphreys, late commissioners
Nil" treating of peace with the Indian
tr b sfoutii of the Ohio, praying for the
fettle men t of an account of author. ?xo
eynences, incurred on their million,
)ino mting to the lum of sixteen, hun
dred dollars over and above the allow
ance made them. —Relerred, together
with the petitions, to the Secretary at
war.
A message was received from the Pr;
firlent of the United States, by Mr. Lear,
accompanied with an official ftatemcni
of the expenditures to the end of the
year 1791. from the fumof lo.opodollau
granted to defray the contingent expell
ees of government, by an ast palfed the
',16th ot march. 179c —which flatemeni
was ordered to lie 011 tfi2 table.
The House then went into cotrnvttc
:i f the whole on the bill lent from the
Senate, providing'for the cleft on of 1
President and vice President ot the Uni
ted States, in cafe of vacancy by deatf
ar resignation.
After some time spent on the bill
r', e chaii man of the committee reporter,
two amendments, which being read, one
was agreed to and the other dilagreed to,
Several amendments were propofeci
;.o the ninth feftion of the bill, which
provides, that in cafe of resignation 01
.liability both of the Pre.fident and vice
President of the United States, liie Pre
lident of the Senate pro tempore, and ir
cafe there shall be no prelident of the
Senate, then tlie fpc„i;er of the Hot.it
-if Representatives for the time be-ins
[hall act asPrefident ol 1 he United States
until the difabilitv be removed, or ;
President shall b p eh ' ied.
The question being put for flrikin;
out the words," the prelident of the Se
nate pro tempore'" —it palfed in th<
negative, yeas—24, nays—27.
i'he qiefcicn being put for flrikin;:
mt the words, "and in xiafe there flial
je no President of tde senate, then tht
(peaker of the House of representative:
for the time being" —it pa'.Ted in the
atermative, yeas —26, nays :>r.
Several amendments to the bill, were
oiopofed, which being gona through b)
the committee, was ordered, togethei
with the amendments to lie on the table
ill to morrow.—Adjourned.
Tuesday, Jan. 3.
The flatement received yeflerday
From the President o: the United States,
relativeto theexpenditure of 10,000 dol
larsfor governmental contingencies, was
read from which it appeared that there
was (fill a refidiic in his hands ot eight
thousand (even hundred and thirty-foui
dollars, and thirty ninetieths of a do!iai
—Ordered to lie on the table.
The committee of enrollment report
ed, that the ,r had presented to the Presi
dent of the United States, for hisaffent.
the bill for carrying into effect the con
trast entered into between the Unitec
States, and the ffate of Petir.fylvania
for thepurchafe of lands on lake Erie.
A mellage was teceived from 'he Pre
sident that he had figncd the said bill '
by which it is palled into a law of the
United States.
A petition was read from Christiana
Ruth, Cyrus Pierce, and Michael M
Clary, severally praying compensation
for services &c. during the late war-
Referred to the Secretary at war.
Mr. J. Smith, from the committee of
reference on the 17th and 18 th feftions
of the post office bill, made his report,
which was read, and the House pro
ceeded to take the fame into confedera
tion.
After difeuding several amendments
and alterations, it was proposed, and a
greed to by the House, to infer; a clause
•n the oi". d,rcf!.r.g tlid Fc.u-iAaPi'T
General to aavertife for contrasts for
c irrviin' the mail—The Bouse soon af
ter rofs, without criming to any further
rhcifion on the bill.—Adjourned.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At t'.ie firfi: Session, begun and held .1 the city of
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennlylv.mia
- Monday the twenty-fourth of O&cber, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT j-jr carrying into effeß a Con
traEl between the. United States and the '
State of Pennsylvania.
FOR duly conveying to the state of
Pennsylvania a certain tract of land.the
right to the government and jurisdic
tion whereof was relinquished to the
said state by a resolution of Congress
of the fourth day of .September, in the
year one thousand seven hundred and
eighty-eight, and whereof the right of
foil has been fold by virtue of a previ
ous rsfolution of Congress of the sixth
n.-.y of June in the faiti year ;
I~} E i: enacted by the Senate aWHousp,
jj of Representatives of the United
States of America in Conrrefs cf'tvbl'd,
That the Prefiderst of the United States
:ie authorized, on, fulfilment of the
crmsftipulatedon thepartof the flatcof
I'etmfylvania, to i'.fue letters .patent. in
he name and under the (eal of the Uni
eJ Siatcs. granting and conveying to
he said State forever the said tract of
and, asthe fame was afcertaincd by a
r urvev made in pursuance of the refolu
'ion of Congress of the sixth 'lay of
June one thousand seven hundred and
■igh'ty-eight.
jon at han Trumku i. l, Speaker of the
House of'Reprefentativs.
John Adams, Virc-Prefident of the
United States, and President
of the Senate.
Approved. Jav.va.ry the third. 1792.
G. Washington, Pref.dent of the
United States.
BALTIMORE, D-cember 0?.
A French Gentlemen, who came paffen?erm
he Schooner Bee. Captain Snyder, arrived here
Yom Port-au-Piincc, furrifhes the following
nclancholy intelligence : —That "on the czd of
November, a negro soldier, belonging to the
orps of armed mulatto citizens, who were quar
efed in the old Governtnent-Houfe, having
luarrelled with a white soldier, of the company
~>f At illery, ihe mob inftanllv feired the negro,
md hung liim on the Municipality Lantern.—
The day following, one of the mula'toes, be
longing to the Barracks, fired on one of the Ar
illery, which occasioned great diflurbmces in
he town. —The municipality aff.'mbled, and of
fered the regular national troops 10 m ■ rch aeainfl
he mulatto's. —When these troops anpmached
;he barracks, the rr.ulattoes put themf.-lves into ;>
flurof defence, and immediately dispatched
several deputies to know the rcafon of the me
naced hoflility. Thev received for answer, that
,t wis ;o demand fatisfa£bor, for the insult above
mentioned. The Deputies offering to deliver
.in the cffenif rs, the principal officer of '.he
while corps e pieffed their entire fatisf.ftion,
md tranquility appeared hkelv to b l ' rePored ;
nit. as the deputies %vere returning to their Quar
ers, some of the white people rashly fired on
hem. The uuilatto-s returned the fire, and a
harp engagement immediately commenced be
:wcen the white and mulatto troops. —Tbelorm-
■r prevailed, and took pofT'fiion of the Polls of
he latter. Several of both parties lofl their lives
n itiis unhappy ronfiift. among whom are M.
I'aillefer, a refpeft'ble elderlv Gen'lemen
'merchant of the town) and one officer of the re
:imerit of Artois. The mula' toes, inthei' flight,
t fire to everv thing in their power, and a drcad
"ul conflagration took place in every quarter of
he town. The damage, as vet, cannot be efli
■na'ed, as the richefl and mod capital quarter of
hat ill-fated fonce flourifhing) town, is now a
icap of ruins."
BENNINGTON, December 06.
A ptntlemen from Canada, lately arrived in
town, informs, that when he pasTed St. Johns,
lie cbferved three veffelson the flocks; which on
"nquiry he was informed, were designed forvel
clsof force; one of them to mount 28, one
t! the other 18 guns. The poP.s on our
.veflern frontiers are yet in the hands of Britain :
everal Indian Chiefs have lately b»en to I .ondon
—:>nd reports of their returning with sentiments
infiicndiy to the United States [perhaps more
han bare reports] are circulating : when we add
o this, that the mod hoflile tribes are near ihe
neighborhood of theweflern pods, withheld from
ashy Biitain, ar.d that they have lately fought
with a degree'of regularity unknown before to
Indians, tlu surmise appears probable, that they
have not only received supplies but afliOance
from that quarter.
A few Copies of the Report of the Secreta y
of State on 'the fabjetl of the Cod and IVliale-
Fifheries —may te had at th; office, No. 239
High-Jireet.PHILADELPHIA,
JANtJ A?. Y 5, 3 79"-
On Tnefviay th" ice entirely
in the D r * fa ware. —The fame <h\\ faveial vcf-
Ms failed on their rcfpefVive deliinations ; and ;
number have since a;rived, who had been do.
tained at Reedy Island by the obiliufctions com
mon to the feaion.
A l" tf er from Bermuda mentions the Prriv.i
there of a yawl about fourteen feet in length
with Hie Captain and crew of a Frcnch fn»r which
foundered in lat. -2, 15. lon. from London, 41
de»-. • c rain. V/- anout lioo miles to the call
ward of Bermuda. The number of persons ir
the vawl was fi!';eeen, who upon the Hiip*s goinr
down, took to this small boat, with a compass, c
ftil.akeg ofbifcuit, a trifling sup 1 -}* of provifior
and water, and a little brandy. During thirteer
days they fleered a wed course, in which time
they failed about 700 miles. They then fell ir
with an English bri; - fmm to Grena
da, who bore awaf with them for Bermuda. Ha
vivr arrived in of that ifiand, the people
again tool: to their boat, and fetched in or><
or the harbors of this friendly cluster, which altho
but afneck in the immen'e expanse of the ocean
lias been a refuge to thousands of unfortunate
wretches in similar cifcurrtftances.
There are at prefant in the United Stages 24c
regular itinerant Mfrhodift preachers, one fuper
infendant, flxty-one and seventy two cea
Apnc all others of thefa ranks are utiordained —
regular members of their church are eonipu
ted at 6", 10 . There are -< large number oi'iora
ted and lay-preachers not included in the abor:
estimate.
Letters frem Jamaica mention that' 4 the spirit o:
re volt anions the negroes had at tergth reacher
that island ; tlint the white inhabitants were fe
rioufjy alarmed for their fafety, ha ' prcclaift.ee
martial Jaw, and were taking every precaution ir
their power to prevent a general infurrc&ion
The lid me is spreading, rnd threaten? the Weft-
Lidia ifiands with ruin and devastation, uhlefs 1
powerful effort of European strength is made tr
j educ<f thole miscreants; and, what would ne ftil
j tore desirable, to devise some better method o
ftipp lying the world with the tropical commodi
ties, than from the labor of wretches, whom 11a
t nre seems to have deigned only lor the inhofpita-
Me defarts of Arabia."
Mr. Pner Zacharie, of Baltimore, has invent
ed a machine o clean the clocks and harbours,
vhich is said to be to any other in use
for that purpose. All the machines we "have
hitherto seen for effe&ing the design, require
one. two or more horses, and men. Mr.
Zacha»ie's machine requires only one man, who
bv walking in a hollow wheel, is enabled to
laifea ton of mud, during the time another re
reiver (or spoon as it is called) is let down to
take in a like quantity. The inventor has ob
tained a ;ot' nt from government for the ma
chine, and offers his services to the leveral offi
cers concerned in the police of vhe different har
bours of the United States.—lt has been menti
oned that one of the fiifi efforts of M;. Zacharie's
{kill is to be tried in the Bdfon ol Baltimore,
where the water has become (o {hallow as scarce
ly to admit a veiTel of nine feet draught, fuilher
than Fell's Point.
11 There (Veins to be a war of colours the world
over, (fays an Albany paper.) The Bririrn
whites, under Lord Cornwall's, are at war in In
dia. with the tawny Afiatirs, under Tippo Sultan.
Jn the Weft-Indies, the French whites and the
African blacks are now in open hoflility— and in
the United States, our white countrymen, are
engaged in a bloody war with the copper-colour
ed Aboriginals of th° country.
44 The Indians, in their furious on our
artillery, appear Hill to polfefs their former ideas
of its effects —and literally to have fulfilled the
command of a far-famed Sachem, in his funeral
son j :
44 Remove those Gods who vomit fire."*
* The whole pajfagc alluded to runs thus —in the
supposed words of King Tammany :
4 4 Jlage and revenge inspire my foul,
Andpnfjicn burns, without controul;
Hence, grangers, to your nativefhert!
Far from our Indianfkades retire,
Remove the ft gods, that vomit fire,
Aniflain with blood these ravaged glades no more
[From a correspondent
As without breath we cannot exist, so witbeu
liberty we cannot enjoy any degree of happiness.
Tlk wrerch who groans beneath the load of op
preilion, without any cheering profpedt to him
Jets or descendants, is tru'v miserable, if poflefled
of fenfibi'ity, and inftrufted by education. Should
he he ignorant, he is so far not unhappy with re
fpedt to mental feelings ; but his corporeal fuf-
are undoubtedly great. He toils without
hope, and is consigned to the grave without com
panion. His body is emaciated by tyranny j and,
to make ufc of a scriptural phrase, the iron has
entered into l-iafoul. The period however will short
ly arrive, when philosophy and religion fliall deli
ver a fuffering race from those evils, j and when
the gradual progress of reason will unite nation
with nation, and colour with colour, blending the
rights of man with the expectations of policy and
commerce. But let us not be premature in our
hopes. This happy event mull he the work ot
deliberation and time. War mud firft relinquish
his fury, and the operations of avarice be refrrain
ed j humanity must prove triumphant, and the
ptireft religious system be more generally adopted
than at prcfent. Till this glorious period (hall ar
rive, let us exercise that greatest of virtues, 44 Cha
rity,ana mildly lament an evil, which cannot
be fuddenlv removed without convulsing a confj
derable part of the world. i
6/ ? rr*\i-n >trsti * o-' tn • infant to the go
vrnor of this T te, fiom Mr. James Read, in*
peftor of Horn tor the port of Philadelphia, the
jmritity of flour (hipped therefrom during the
ear »7oi. amounts to 315,785 barrelsoi fl oar
md 5733 of middlings.
Five r-fohitions h#te pafT-d the Georg.a H'oufo
)f Rcprelentativcs [in conleqnence of a motion
nadebyGen. [ackfon on the 24th. Novem
ber] to the following effe£t : That as the liber
ies and properties of the citizens of Georgia dc
>cnd On uninfluenced ekftions, eithet for genera!
>r particular re orefenutives, so it was tne duty
>f that House to intereff themselves in maintain
ng that great bulwark of liberty, to the extent o!
heir power, and thata violation of the privilege
)f ele&i jn in any decree ought to be considered
ty them as a crime of the deepest dye, and tend
ng to annihilate the rights ot pofierity. That 11
1 p pea red to the House that there is fufficient
a le for an enquiry into the elefhon held on the
Irft Monday in January last, for a member fc
eprefent the lower diflrict of Georgia in the
Dongre sos the United Stat-s, andthatall proofs,
•nd other documents mdanve thereto be referrcc
:o nine members to report their opinion thereoi
o the House.
Lad Saturday afternoon Lieut. Devin, of the
Levies, arrived in the Weflern Conn
ry. He left Fort-Wafbinpron the 2<>d of No
vember, at which t me Foris Hamilton and Jef
Peifon were well supplied with men and provi
'ions, and there W.<s no apprehension for then
"afetv. General St. Clair continuedin badhealth
Vloft of the remaining Levie-. were returning
lome, except such as had enliOed in the
service. The wounded had been brought tc
port Washington, and were moil of them in ;
tair way .of recovery. No account of the Indi
ans since the action.
Lieut. Dev.nmet General Scott, with a part)
:>f militia,' Within 00 miles of Fort Walhington
>n the 23d of November.
FOnE GN APPOINTMENTS.
Pierr" Francois Barbe de Marbois—Vice
Consul from his mofl Chiiflian Majtfly withir
he (lates of Connecticut, New-York and New
Jersey, to res.de in N w-York.
Charles Gottfried Palefke—Conful Genera
: rom the Kin;* of PrufTia, within the Unitec
States of America.
From the Albany. Gazette..
Bv a gentleman from the Gencfee country, we
earn, th :t previous to his departure, the Indiar
■fount of the defeat of the American arms or
he Miami, had reached there, both from De
roit and Buff aloe creek, and is by them (fated a:
"ollows: That they killed 1200 Americans, anc
00k 7'pieces of cannon—foo oxen, and a grea
lumber of hcrfes, but no prisoner that theii
ofs was only 56 warriors kilted.
Our informant adds, that the number of In
lians in the battle was not exactly afeertained
nit supposed to have been between 3 and 40CO
ind this opinion is confirmed bv a gcntlem-n whe
vas at Detroit when the Indians left it on theii
a ay to the Miami— who fays, they were so very
numerous as to create serious alarm in that garri
i'on, and that every precaution was taken for it!
afety—as the Indians were exceedingly irritatec
vith the British government for not having coun
enanced them in their warfare wi-:i the Unitec
itates—That the Indian army was compcfed o:
ome from aim oft every tribe from the Miami tc
Lake Miche- an, Michellimachanac, and proba
cy even to the Miflifippi—That it was com
nanded by one of the Miflafago Indians, whe
lad Keen in the British service, in the late war
hat he planned and conducted the attack, whicl
.vas even contrary to the opinion of a majori \
>f the chiefs—and, that alier the Americans be
jan their retreat, he told the Indians tfiey hac
billed enough, and that it was proper ro giv(
v/er the pursuit, and return and enjoy the beot\
hey had taken—That their account of the corn
mencement of the atlion and its continuance
agrees with Gen. St. Clair's letter to the fecreta
ry at war.
The'principal part of the above "informatior
3ur informant had from the FarmerVßrotber, ar
Indian of that name, an intelligent person, anc
Chief of the. Senecas.
Our informant further adds, that Capt. Brand
is friendly to the United States, particularly iotc
ihe inhabitants of the Genefec settlements: Tha
the unfriendly Indians have (ent him a mcflage
:hat as they have conquered the Americans (a;
they term it) they intend paying h>m and the Se
necas a vilit, on account of their not having
joined them in the war.
We are told, the Seneca tribe of Indians are
ibleio furnifh 305 of the firft rate warriors, and
-ire. friendly to the United States, as are all the
other tribes of the Six Nations —who would tuir
Dutwith aljcrity to join an American army against
the Weftem Indians.
/
It is said, when the deputation of WeOcrn Jn-
Jiiins. waited on the Gov. Gen. of Canada, Lord
Dorchester, la(l spring, that Capt. Joseph Brandt
appeared among them, and a&ed as their spea
ker, in their conferences—that his Lordship took
ro inform Capt. Joseph, that as he was
an officer in the British service, it became neces
sary for him to lay alide the Indiun dress and al
fume that of his corps ; for, if he infiOed on re
raining the former, his pay as a British capta'n
mull cease, and his name be struck off f:om the
lift of officers.—lt is adtled, the captain wiftlv
□referred the British pay and uniform, to the f:o
nor of remaining an Indian.
lIAHTFORD, H--. If".
Extra CI of a letl, r rrnlttn ike I
'Editor of this paper, dated Nov. 19, 17g l.
' The day before yeflerday, a seventy four gun
[hip and one frigate arriv'd ~t this port, to aftift in
quelling the dill urban ecs, but h-ave only it de
them greater- the officers beinnf the Arilto
:r itical party, the afiemMy have demanded them
—and f am jniormed that the feaniett have rih*n
and delivered them to the guards of this place,
that tlv-y may be sent to France."
Adtice&by the Camilla, Capt. Burn Ia », arri
ved yl New-York on Sunday lajl, in 4 daysf r om
Bnjtol.
LONDON, Nov. 8 -15. •
On the 31ft ult. Mi de Montmorin went to
[he N»tional Afletnblv, in obedience to orders,
:o inform them how the King's acceptance of
he constitution had been received by foreign
jowess.
The letters written in ansWer to the King's no
ification by the Emperor, by the Kings of F.ng
and and Denmai k, by the States Gerer; 1 ofHol
and, bv the Recublic of Geneva, bv the Electors
>f Treves arid Saxonv, and bv the Dukes de
Deux Porits and B-unfvick, simply wish the wel
fare of the King of France and his sub efts.
The Elector of Treves (ays formally, that " as
:o any thing else, he has no anlwcr to give."
The King of Spain fays in plain terms, that
the King was not free when he accepted the
:onftituiion."
The King of Sweden " refufed to receive the
packet which was officially sent to him." And
he assigned, as the motive of his refufal " his own
will and pleasure not to receive any million from
France."
M. de Montmorin observed, that as soon as
Louis XVI was informed of this answer, he had
ordered his ombaflador 10 renew his application
10 his Swedifi, Majesty ; and that if Gufiavus
fliou'd berfift in his refufal, to quit Stockholm
without taking leave.
This resolution of the King was highly and
loudlv applauded.
The Empress of Russia, the court of Rome)
the King of Sardinia, the Queen of Portugal, the
Swiss Cantons, and the Eletlor of Mayence have
not yet returned any anlwer.
The National Aftembly of France have just
palled the following decree relative to Louis Jo
feph-Xavier, the King's next brother upon whose
conduct that of the other French Princes is sup
posed 10 depend.
It having been before resolved, that theperfon
entitled to the Regency would forfeit his right
by remaining absent from the kingdom, it was de
creed, 011 Sunday the 30th of October,
1. That proclamation Ihould be made within
three days in Paris.
2. That the requisition should be notified to
the Prince by no other mode than that of procla
mation.
3. That, conformably to the constitutional de
crees the promulgation of the law shall be made
by the executive power.
4. That the fuppleant of the regency shall be
houfld to return within three mounths, or (hall be
held to have abdicated his right to to the regency
The National All'embly have paired a decree,
againll the emigrants in which, amongfl leveral
others, are the following articles—
" That the French assembled beyond the fron
tiers of the Kingdom, shall be declared lufpc£ted
as a confpiracv againll their country. That if,
oa the liifl of Jan. 1792, they be found in the
fame fituaiion, they will be declared guilty of
confpiiacy, profectned as such, and be putiiuied
with death. That after that period all the French
Princes and public functionaries (hall be conliii
ered as engaged in a conspiracy against the consti
tution, &c. That the revrnuesof tbofe convic
ted of conlumacy shall be forfeited to the nation,
during their own lives only; and, that the reve
nu;s of the absent French Princes shall be con
filcated from the date of the promulgation of
the decree."
The Fiiendfiiip, Capt. Wright, from London
and Gibraltar, for Mogadoie, has been taken by
two Spanilh frigates, of 40 guns each, the Flo
lentine and the Pearl, on account of having arms
and ammunition on boaid, and was leen convey
ing into a Spam Hi pott.
Vailem, ihe Bookleller at Amsterdam, who
has been confined in prison leveral weeks, with
his wile and children for having fold a publica
tion in which the Uadtholder was not treated
wiih proper refpeft, is condemned 10 be whipped
and branded,and to be impriloned for the Ipace
of 25 years.
iV r.Burke is talked of as the successor of the late
Bamfer Gafcoyne. Esq. in the office of receiver
General of the Cufloms.
WARSAW, (Polainl) Oflober 24.
Yellerday evening intelligence was received
here hy M. de Belgakow, the Ruffian minister
10 this court, of the death of Prince Potemkin,
which happened at Valfy, on the i6thinli.
M. GARDETTE, Dentiji,
F* ESPECTFULLY informs the public, that
he has removed from No. 88 to No. 127,
>Jbefnut, near Fourth ltreet, nearly oppoficc the
[Sank of the United States. Dec. 19.
This Day are publijhcd,
SERMON S,
Historical and Chara&eriftical :
By WILLIAM LINN, D. D.
Ine of the MiniJlers of the Reformed Protejlant
Dutch Church, in the city of New-York.
>old by T. DOBSON & R. CAMPBELL.
[ Price Three Quarters of a Dollar.]
The COUNTRY PRINTER.
[Concluded] ■
THOU, who art p'ac'd in fofne more favour'd
spot,
Where fr ires ascend, and nips from etfery clime
Difchnrge their heights—despise nor thou the lot
Or ma.i-r Ty?r, who here has pafi'i his prime
At cafe ant! ores has lab uir\i many a day
But now, with j?irs, is verging to decay*
He, in his timp, the patriot of his town
W.ith Pr<fs and Pen attacked the royal liue.
Did what he could to pull ibeir Linn down.
Clipped nthis ta:!,-?nd twitch'd his facrcd hiJe,
Mim»ck*d his roarings, trod upon hii loes,
Pelted young whelps, and tweak'd the old
nose.
Roos'd by his page, at church or Court-House
read,
From depths of woods the willing rustics ran,
Now by a priest. and now Tome deacon led
With clubs and Ipirs to the rights of man ;
Lads From the spade, the pick-ax, or the plough
Marching afar, to fight Burgoyne ur Bo'we*
Where are they now ?—r'ne Village asks with
grief,
What were their toils, their conquests, or their
gains ?—
Perhaps, they near some State-House beg relief,
Perhaps, they sleep on Saratoga's plains j
Doom'd not to live, their country to reproach
For (even-years pay transferred to Mammon's
coach.
Ye Guardians of your country and her laws !
Since to the pen and pceli so much we owe
Still bid zherrr .avour freedom's sacred cause,
From this pure source, let flreams unsullied flow ;
Hence, a new order grows from reason's plan,
And turns the tierce barbarian into—man.
Child of the earth, of rude materials framed,
r»-lan, always found a tyran: or a ilave,
Fond to be honoured, valued, rich, or fam'd
Roves o'er the earth, and subjugates the wave ;
Despots and kings this reftleis race mav share,—*
Eut knowledge only makes them worth your care !
ROBERT SMOCK,
Woollen Draper Is" Mercer,
las jufi received by the foif> Pigou, from Lor.dcr.,
and for.Jale at his Store, on the north eaji corner
of Market and Third ftrcets, Philadelphia,
AN ELEGANT ASSORTMENT OF
SUPERFINE and super broadcloths, in almoti
every colour.
-adies fuperfine habit cloths,in the most fafhion.-
able colours.
Juperfine calfimers,
Do. and luper elallic flriped cloths.
Vlilled drabs and hunters cloths.
\ variety of fancy waiftcoating, in silk, silk and
cottan, silk molelkiji, cafliniers printed and
tamboured, and fuperfine striped bpanilh toil -
nets.
Wens black fartins, florentine?, and silk pruneil.is
of superior quaiiees
iilk, silk and cotton, cotton and worded hose,
aflorted.
iattins and rfiarituas, a beautiful variety.
> uperrine ratcinets, with a large collection of best
trimmings for cloths, &c. of every quality.
Moreens, joans spinning, durants and caliman
coes.
Ifiirbines and camblets, 3cc»
j-S wide fuperiine Marseilles quilting with bor
ders.
Marseilles bedquilts and cotton counterpanes, 9-4
to 12-4.
Flanders bedbunts and bedtickings.
A beaotiful variety of chintzes and cottofts.
An elegant aftbrtment of yard wide furniture
chintzes, in beautiful colours and patterns,
with a large variety of furniture cottons.
Velveteens, velvets, cordurovj, thicksets. fancv
cords, (lockinets, royal ribs, fattinets, hair
plufiies, &c. &c.
Striped and grfcy, twilled and plain Bath coating?.
R.ofe blankets aflorted.
ROBERT SMOCK has also for Sale, a great
Variety of GOODS of the best quality in their
everal kinds. He presumes it is unneceifary to
more particular in the enumeration, and that
t is fufficient to fay the aflbrtment is very gene
a! and ex'enfive, consisting of alrnoft every arti
:le in his line of business.—Being dsfirous of giv
ng entire fatisfa£tton to those who may be pleased
o favour w their custom, as well
15 cf meriting a continuance of those cuf
omers, whose favours he has hitherto experien
ed, he flatters himfelf the ckeapnefs of his Goods
vi 11 be the best means of effecting his wiflies.
Just published,
and for sale by
THOMAS LANG,
No. 21, Church alley ;
An Eflay on
COMMERCE and LUXURY,
le-printed from the London edition—Price Iso
The merit of this work will be 2cknow
odgec by every judicious reader. The re-publi
ation of it in this country, at this time, has been
idvifed by several enlightened patriots. Thefc
\ifti to promote our national commerce, on the ba
is of agriculture and industry, ar-d free from the
)afe alloy of imposition and gaminsf. They set a
M - oper value on the conveniences and ornaments
-f civilized life ; but detest that luxury which is
he offspring of a frivolous taste, and the mother
>f profligacy, difiionefty, poverty, of number
efs priyate and public vices and misfortunes.
Nov. 28. e.t. t.TCI. The fact 'itdtlr.g of tie tranff*rtation ef
commodities.
improvements favoring this objeCt intimately
concern all the domeltic interests of a communi
ty ; but they may without impropriety be men
tioned as having an important relation to manu
factures. There is perhaps scarcely any thing,'
which has been better calculated to assist the ma
nufaCtures of Great-Britain, than the ameliora
tions of the public roads of that kingdom, and rhe
great which has been of late made in
opening canals. Of the former, the United States
stand much in need j for the latter they prel'ent
uncommon facilities.
The fymptomsof attention to the improvement
of inland navigation, which have lately appeared
in some quarters, mult fill with pleafur'e every
brealt waim~d with a true zeal for the
of the country. These examples, it is to be ho
ped, will stimulate the exertions of the government
and citizens of every Hate. There can certainly
fce no ohjeCt, more worthy of the cares of the lo
cal alrniniftrations ; and it were to be wished,
that there was no doubt of the power of the natio
nal government to lend its direCt aid, on a com
prehensive plan. This is one of those improve
ments, which could be prolecuted with more effi
cacy by the whole, than by any part or parts of
the Union. There are cases in which the general
jnfereft will be in danger to be facrificed to the
coliifion of some iuppofed local interests. Jea
)oufies,'in matters of this kind, are apt to exist,
as th*>y are apt to be erroneous.
The following remarks are fafficifently judicious
and pertinent to deserve a literal q-iotation :
il Good roads, canals and navigable rivers, by di-
Ttiiniihing the expcnce of carriage, put the remctt
farts of a country more nearly upon a level with
those. in the neighborhood of the town. They
arc uton that account the greatest of all improve
ments. They encourage the cultivation of the re
mote, which must always be the most extensive
circle of the country. They are advantageous tc
the town, by breaking d vvn the monopoly ol
the country in its neighborhood. They a e
advantageous even to that part of the country.
Though they introduce some rival commodities
into the old market, thry open many new markets
to its produce. Monopoly besides is a great enem"
to good management, which can never be univer
sally eftsblifhed, but in confequencc of shat free
and universal competition, which forces every bo
dy to have recourse to it for the fake of felf de
fence. It is not more than fifty years ago that
font? of the counties in the neighborhood of London
petitioned the parliament again ft the extension oj
the turn-pike roads, into the remoter counties. Those
remoter counties, they pretended, from the cheapness
(J labor, 70 uld be to fe I thei" grajs and com
cheaper in the London market, than themfelves> ana
they ivould thereby reduce their rents and ruin their
cultivation. Their rents however have risen,
and their cultivation has been improved, fincc
that time."
Specimens of a spirit, similar to that which go
verr.ed the counties herefpoken of present them
selves too frequently, to the eye of an impartial
observer, and render it a wish of patriotism that the
body in this country, in whose councils a local or
partial spirit is least likely to predominate, were
at liberty to pursue and promote the general inter
est, in those instances, in which there might be
danger of the interference of such a spirit.
The foregoing are the principal of the means,
by which the growth of manufactures is ordinari
ly promoted. It is, however, not merely necefia
ry, that the mcafures of government, which have
a direCt view to manufactures, Ihould be calcula
te a Gift and protect them, but that those which
tioly collaterally affeCt them, in the general course
of the administration, should be guarded from any
peculiar tendency to injure them.
There are certain fpe.cies of taxes, which are apt
to be opprefiive to different parts of the communi
ty, and among other ill effeCts have a very un
friendly aspect towards manufactures. All poll or
capitation taxes are of this nature. They either
proceed, according to a fixed rate, which operates
unequally, and injurioully to the industrious poor;
or they vest a discretion in certain officers, to make
estimates and affefYments' which are necelTa*ily
vague, conjectural and liable to abuse. They
ought therefore to be abftaincd from, in all but
cases ofdiftreffing emergency.
All such taxes (including all taxes on qccupa
tions) which proceed according to the amount of
capital supposed to be employed in a business, or
of profits Juppofed to be made in it are unavoidably
hurtful to indu(try. It is in vain, that the evil
may be endeavored to be mitigated by leaving it,
in the firft instance, in the option of the party to be
taxed, to c'eclare the amount of his capital or profits.
Men engaged in any trade or business have com
monly weighty reasons to avoid aifclofures, which
would expose, with any thing like accuracy, the
real state of their affairs. They most frequently
find it better to rifle oppreflion, than to avail them
selves of so inconvenient a refuge. And the con
sequence is, that they often fufrer oppression.
When the disclosure too, if made, is not defini
tive, but controulable by the discretion, or in other
words, by. the paflions and prejudices of the reve
nue officers, it is not only an ineffectual protec
tion, but the pofiibiiity of its being so is an addi
tional reason for not resorting to it.
Allowing to the public officers the most equita
ble dispositions j yet where they are to exercise a
discretion, without certain data, they cannot fail
to be often'mifled bv appearances. The quantity
of business, which seems to be going on, is, in a
vast number of cases, a very deceitful criterion of
the profits which are made ; yet it is perhaps the
best they can have, and it is the one, on which
they will most naturally rely. A business there
fore whicft may rather require aid, from the go
vernment, than be in a capacity to be contributory
to it, may find itfelf crushed by the mistaken con
jectures of the assessors of taxes.
Arbitrary taxes, under which denomination are
compTifed aH those, that leave the quantum of the
tax, to be raised on each person, to the discretion of
certain officers, are as contrary to the genius of
liberty as to the maxims of industry. In this
light, they have been viewed by the most judicious
observers on government; who have bestowed upon
them the severest epithets of reprobation j as con
stituting one of the worst features usually to be
met w.ih in the praCUce of dfefpotiS governments.
it is ccrtain at leafl, that such taxes aie parti
cularly inimical to the success of manufacturing
industry, and ought carefully to be avoided by go
verumenr, which defifes to promote it.
The great copiousness of thei\rbjeCfc of this re
port has insensibly led to a more lengthy prelimi
nary d i feu Hi on, thah was originally contemplated,
or intendeds It appeared proper to inveftigatc
rinc ples, to consider objections, and to endeavor
to eftablifn the utility of the thing proposed to bt,
encouraged } previous to a fpccifrcation of the ob
jects which might occur, as meriting or repairing,
encouragment, and of the measures, which might
be proper, in respeCt to each. The firft purpofi
having been fulfilled, it remains to pursue the se
cond.
In the seleCtion of objeCts, five
seem entitled to particular attention: The ca
pacity of the country to furni/h the raw material —
the degree in which the natu.e of the manufac
ture admits of a substitute for manual labor in ma
ciiinery—rthe facility of execution—the extenfive
r.els or the uses, to which the article can beappli
■ d—its fublerviency to other interells, particular
ly the great one of national defence. There are
however objects, to which these circumrtances
are little applicable, whiclf for some special rea
fjns, may have a.claim to encouragement.
A deflgnation of the principal raw material of
which cach manufacture is composed will fcrvc
to introduce the remarks upon ir. — As, in th
firft place
IRON.
The manufactures of this articic arc entitled to
pre-eminent rank—None are more efieritial In
their kinds, nor so extensive in their uses. They
confiitute in whoic or in part the implements or
the materials, or both, of almofl every ulefui occu
pation. Their iiiil'romentality is every where con*
fpicuous.
It is foitunate for the United States that they
have peculiar advantages for deriving the fulL be
nefits of this mo ft valuable material, and they have
every motive to. improve it, with systematic c?re.
it is to be found in various parts of the United
Siates, in great abundance and of almofl every
quality } and fuel the chief instrument in manu
facturing it, is both cheap and plenty.—This par
ticularly applies to charcoal ; but there are pro
ductive coal mines already in operation, and strong
indications, that the material is to be found in
abundance, in a variety of other places.
The enquiries to which thefubjeCl of this report
i as led have been answered, with proofs, that ma
nufactories of iron, though generally underflood to
be extenfjvCj are far more 10 than is commonly lup»
[>ofed. The kinds, in which the greatest progress
has been have been mentioned in another
placc, and need not be repeated j but there is lit
tle doubt that every other kind, with due cultiva
tion, will rapidly succeed. it is worthy of remark
that several of the particular trades, of which it is
the basis, are capable of being carried on without
the aid of large capitals.
iron works have very greatly encieafed in the
United States, and are profecutea with mueh more
advantage than formerly. The average price "be
fore the revolution was about sixty-sour dollars
per ton, atprefentit is about eighty ; a rife which
is chiefly to be attributed to the encreafe of manu
factures of the material.
The ft:li further extenSon and multiplication
of such manufactures will have the double effett
of promoting the extraction of the metal itfeif, and
of converting it to a greater number of profitable
purposes.
Those manufactures too unite in a greater de
gree, than almost any othertf, the several requi
sites, which have been mentioned, as proper to be
consulted in the fcieclion of oDjeCtff.
The only further encouragement of manufacto
ries of this the propriety of which may pe
Confidsred as unqueitionable, I'eems to be an en
creafe of the duties on foreign rival commodities.
Steel is a branch which has already made a
considerable progress, and it is ascertained that
some new enterprises, on a more extensive kale,
have been lately let on foot. The facility of car
rying it to an extent, which will Jupply all inter
nal demand, and furnifh a considerable lurplus for
exportation cannot be doubted. The duty upon
the importation of this article, which is at present
feventy-five cent? per cwt. mav, it is conceived,
be fafely and advantageoully extended to ico
cents. It is defirahle, by decisive arrangements,
to second the efforts, which arc making in so very
valuable a branch.
The United States already in a great measure
supply themselves with nails and spikes. They
are able, and ought certainly to do it entirely. The
firft and most laborious operation, in this manu
facture, is performed by water-mill r . j and of the
persons afterwards employed a great proportion arc
oovs, whose eari) habits of indufrry are of impor
tance to the community, to the present support
of their families, and to their own future com
fort. It is not less curious than true, that in cer
tain parts of the country, the making of nails is
an occasional family manufacture.
The expediency of an additional duty on tJieft
articles is indicated by an important faCt. About
1,890,000 pounds of them were imported into th'
United States in the course of a year, ending- tht
30th of Sept. 1790. A duty of. two cents pei
pound would, it is presumable, (peeJily put anend
to so considerable an importation. And it is ir :
every view proper that an end should be put to it.
The manufacture of these articles, like that o!
Lome others, fuflfersYrom the carelelTnefs and dif ]
honesty of a part of those who carry it on, Anj
;nfpeCtion in certain cases might tend to correCt'
the evil. It will i.eferve confiderarion whether aj
regulation of this fort cannot be applied, without
incon vcnience, to the exportation of the articled
either to foreign countries, or from one state to a
nother.
The implements of husbandry are made in
lev eral states in great abundance. In many place. 1
it is done by the common blacksmiths. Anc
there is no doubt that an ample supply for the
whole country can with great ease be procured
among ourfeives.
Various kinds of edged tools for the use of me
chanics are also made ; and a considerable quanti
ty of hollow wares ; though the business of cart
ings has not yet" attained the perfection which
might be wifiied. It is however Improving, anij
as there are respeCtable capitals in good hands,
embarked in the prosecution of those branches of
iron manufactories, which are yet in their infan
cy, they may all be contemplated as objeCts not
difficult to be acquired.
To ensure the qnd, it seems equally fafe anc!
rudent to extend the duty ad valorem upon al.
manufactures of iron, or of which iron is the ar
ticle of chief value, to ten per cent.
Fire arms and other military weapons may it i:
conceived, be placed without inconvenience in thi
clals of articles rated at fifteen per cent. Then
exilt already manufactories of these articles, w'nicf
only require the stimulus of a certain demand t<
render them adequate to the supply of the Unitei
States.
It would also be a material aid to mannfaCtorie
of this nature, as well as a mean of public fecun
ty, if provilion should be made for an annual pur
chafe of military weapons, of home manufaCtur
to a certain determinate extent, in order to thi
formation of arsenals j and to replace from tim
to time such as should be withdrawn for use, so a
always to have in store the quantity of each kind
which should be deemed a competent supply.
But it may hereafter deserve legillative confi
deration, whether of all the necef
(ary weapons of war ought not to be eltabiifhed
on account of government itfelf. S-ich eftabiiih
ments are agreeable to the usual practice of nu
:10ns, and that praCtice ieems founded on fuflicien
rcafon.
There appears to be an improvidence, in leav
ing these elfential instruments of national de
rence to the casual peculations of individual ad
venture ; a resource which canlels be relied upon
in this cale than in mod others 5 the articles ii
quertion not being objects of ordinary and indif
penfable private consumption or use. As a gener
al rule, manufactories on the immediate accoun
of government are to be avoided j but this seem
to be one of the few exceptions, which that ru><
admits, depending on very special reasons.
Manufactures of steel, generally, or of whici
steel is the article of chief value, may with advan
cage be placed in the clals of goods rated at fevej
ana an half per cent. As manufactures of thi
kind have not yet made any considerable progress
t is a reason for nut rating them as as t'nof<
>f iron ; but as this material is the basis of them
ind as their extenfjon is not less practicable, thai
mportanr, it is deferable to promote it by a some
vhat higher duty than the present.
A question arises, how far it might be expedien
o permit the importation of iron in pigs and bar
ree from duty. It would certainly be favorabii
o manufacturers of the article ; but the doubt i
vhether it might not interfere with its produc
ion.
Two circumstances, however, abate if they d<
lot remove apprehension, on this score ; one is
he considerable encreafe of price, which has beer
ilready remarked, and which renders it probabli
hat the free admifilon of foreign iron would no
>e inconsistent with an adequate profit to the pro
;rietors of iron works ; the other is, the augmen
a:ion of demand, which would be likely to atten<
:nc encreale of manufactures of the article, ir
:onlequence of the additional encouragements pro
)o!ed to be given. But caution nevertheless in «
natter of this kind is mod advisable. The mea
ure fuggefled ought perhaps rather to be contem
tlated, lubjeCt t;> the lights of further experience
han imoituiati iy adopted.
COPPER.
The rr:anufailures of which this article is fuf
:t.{>tible are also of great extent and utility. Un
ier Xliis ciefcription, those of brass, of which it i:
:he principal ingredient, are intended to be in
C 1 ud-rd *
The material is a natural production of thi
:ountry. Mines of copper have aCtually beer
vroiight, and with profit to th- undertakers
hough it is not known, that any are now in rhii
:ondit»on. And nothing is easier, than the intro
luCtion of it, from other countries, on moderau
:erms, and in great plenty.
and brass founders, particularly
he foimer, are numerous in the United States,
r ome of whom carry on business to a reTpcCta'uli
sxtent.
To multiply and extend manufactories of thi
materials in question is woithv of attention ant
effort. In order to this, it is desirable to facili
rate a plentiful supply of the materials. And ;
proper mean to this end is to place them in tin
clals of free articles. Copper in plates and bras
are already in this predicament j but copper ir
pigs and bars is not j neither is iaph calamivaris
which together with coppcr and charcoal, confti
tute the component ingredient* of brass. Thi
exemption from duty, by parity of reason, oughi
to embrace all such of these articles, as are objeCt:
of importation.
An additional duty, on brass wares, will tent
to the general end in view. These now stand a
five per cent, while those of tin, pewer and cop
per are rated ;;t seven nr.d an half. There appear:
to bp a propriety in every viiw in placing bras:
wares upon the fame level with them j and it mer
its con si deration whether the duty upon all of then
ought nut to be iaiicd to ten [>er cent.
LEA D.
There are numerous proofs, that thi* materia
abounds in the United States, and requires little
to unfold it to an extent, more than equal to ever}
domedic cccafion. A prolific mine of it ha:
long been open in the fouth-weftein parts of Vir
ginia, and under a public administration, ourini
the late war, \ielded a considerable supply for mi
litary use. This is now in the hands of individu
als, who not only carry it on with fpiric, but have
eftablifiied manufactories of it, at Richmond, ir
the fame Hate.
The d.ujies, already laid upon the importatior
of this article, either in its unmanufactured, 01
manufactured state, ensure it a decisive advantag<
in the home market—which amounts to consider
able encouragement. If the duty on pewter ware:
fiionld be railed, it would afford a further encour
agement. Nothing else occurs as proper to be ad
ded.
FOSSIL COAL.
This, as an important instrument of manufac
tures, may without impropriety be mentioned
amoDg the subjeCts ©f this report.
A cop".-.!;? {•;pply of it would be of confe
quencc to tne iron branch : As an article of hou/e
---liold fuel alio ic is an interesting production ; the
utility of which must encreafe in proportion to the
of wood, by the progress of i'ettJeraent
and cultivation. And its importance to naviga
tion, as an immenle article of tra.nfportation
Lualt-wife, is signally exemplified in Great-Liri
tain.
I is known, that there are several coal mines
in Virginia, now worked, and appearances of their
exigence are familiar in a number of places.
The expediency of a bounty on all this species
or coal of home production, and of premiums, on
the opening of new mines, under certain qualifica
tions, appears to be worthy of particular examina
tion. '1 he great importance of the article will
ampiv jufiify a reasonable expence in this way, if
it (hall appear to be necefiary to, and ihail be
thought likely to answer, the end.
WOOD.
Several manufactures of this article flourifli in
the United Stales. Ships are no where in
greater perfection, and cabinet wares, generally,
are made little if at all inferior to those of Eu
rope. Their extent is such as to have admitted
;>f considerable exportation.
An exemption from duty of the several kinds of
'Vood orornarily used in these feetns
obe all, that is req ui site, by way of encourage
rnent. Jc is recommended by the consideration of
i fimiJar policy being pursued in other countries,
ind by the expediency of giving equal advantages
o our own workmen in wood. The abundance
>f timber proper for (hip building in the (Jniied
States does no: appear to be any objection to it.
rhe encreafing icarcity and the growing import
:ance of that article, in the European countries,
idmoniih the United States to commence, and
y(tematically to pursue, measures for the prefer
/ation of their flock. Whatever may promote
he reguiar eftabiiflrment of magazines of ihip
iinber, is in various views defireable.
SKINS.
There are scarcely any manufactories of rrra-er
mpwrtance, than of this article. Their direct
«nd very happy influence upon agriculture, by pro
moting the railing of cattle of different kinds, is, a
'ery material recummendation.
It is plealing too, to observe the extensive nro
;rels they have made in their piincipal brandies j
vhich are lo lar matured as almost to defy foreign
ompetition. Tanneries in particular are not on
y carried on as a regular bufinels, in numerous
nltances and in various parts of the country ;
)ut they constitute in lome places a valuable
tem of incidental family manufactures.
Representations however have been made, ;m
--->orting the expediency of further encouragement
o the leather branch in two ways j one by en
reafing the duty on the manufactures of it, which
ire imported ; the other by prohibiting the ex
>ortation of bark. In support of the latter it is
[Hedged, that the price of bark, chiefly in confe
rence of large exportations, has risen within a
"ew years from about three dollars to four dollars
*ad a half per cord.
These suggestions are submitted rather as into
nations, which merit considerations, than as mat
ers, the propriety of which is manifelt. It is
ioc clear, rhat an encrrafe of duty is necefTary ;
rnd in regard to the prohibition defiied, there is
»o evidence of any considerable exportation hi
herto ; and'it is most probable, that whatever
lugmentation of price may have taken place, is to
>e attributed to an extension of the home demand
rom the encreafe of manufactures, and to a dc
reafe of the supply in consequence of rhe pro
ofs of fettlcment, rather than to the quantities
vhich have been expoited.
It is mentioned, however, as an additional rea
on for the prohibition, that one species of the
>ark usually exported is in some fort peculiar to
he country, and rhe material of a very valuable
Ive, of great use in some other manufaCtuies, in
vhiih the United Scates have begun a compe
ition.
(To be concluded in our next.)
GEORGE MEADE
HAS FOR SALE,
At h'rs Stores on V/alnut-Strket Wharf,
A FEW pipes of 3 and 4 years old bins cf ex
change Madeira WINE, which he wit Uif
'?oJe cf by the p : pe, hogfloead or quarter cajk.
London market MadeiraWlNE ,5 and (tyears old.
Old Sherry WINE of the firjl quality, by the
hog/head or quarter cajk.
'Three and 4 years old Lijl'on WINE, of a fa-
Verier quality to what is generally imported) by the
five, quarter cajk, or larger quantity.
Choice old Coniac BRANDT, by the pipe, tierce,
ir larger quantity.
Ajew quarter chefs of firji quality Hyfrn TEA,
He has jujl received by the Prgtu, Lcxlcy, majier,
Wkm London, a few quarter calks cf old Madeira
WINE—And
By the brig Mercury, (apt. Stevens, from Dub
lin, a few boxes of Irijh LINENS, loio priced
wd ivell ajjorted : a few bales of Red aind White
FLANNIiLS, and jome GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDI ES of the
trfi quality, and But lington PORK ofprime quality
lie has also to difpeje cf a quantity cf drejfed
Viatic Oak STAVES.
He means to keep a constant supply of Firjl Qua
lity Madeira and Lifaon WINES, and whoever
is pleased to favor him with their cujiotn, may be
ifjured of being well served.
He will through the W'inter ai d Spring, buy
undrefjed HANDSPIKES. He is pur chafing
FLAXSEED aud BEES-WAX, and will give
the highest Price for them.
N. B. A few Hampers of excellent London
PORTER and Taunton ALE, juj} arrived and
to be disposed of. *f
PRINTED BY
C II I L D S AND S W A I N K,
AT THEIR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIGH-STREI Tf
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA.