Vol. L
Report on Manufactures.
... ' ( Centlr.u cd.)
CUT it is revei thelefa true, that during the
whole of the Wterval, between the »he
capital of 100 dollars, and it* reduction to a fart
n.>t greater than that of the annual revenue ap
propnated to its redemption—thpre will be i
greatef active capital ii) exigence than if no deb
had been comradted. The sum drawn froiT
other capitals in cry pneyear wjll net exceed
doiUis \ Vu: there vv.;l pe at every ixfiaftt of i'ivi
during tile period in queftivn, a sum coir
TefpotnJing 'with Jo much oj the f» tmip*il, as re
mains unrtdeermd, in the hands of some person o
other, employed, or leatW to be employed ii
some profitable undertaking. I here will there
fore conttanHy be more capital, m t6 hi
employed, than capita! taken from employment
The e'xeefs for the fi:it year has been (tared to b
r.inety- two dollars } itv\ill dimini(h yearly i bu
there always will be an excess, until the principa
cf the debt is brought to a level with the re
15EE MING annuity j that is, in the caf
which h.;s been aifumed by way of example, t<
EIGHT DOLL ars . The reality of this excel
hfcomek palpable, it it befuppofed, as often hap
pens, that the ut»7en of a foreign country im
ports into the United States joo pilars for thi
purchctie of an equal !um of public cicb:—here i
*n abfolu'e augmentation of the ir.afs o* circula
ting coin to the extent of jgo dollars. At thi
tno of a year the foreigner is j-iefuUQcd to drav
back eight dollars on account of his principal an*
interest, but «, .oill leaves, ninety two of hi
Original ciepofit as be in irtee man
ner leaves eighty-four at the end oi the ffcohl
vear, drawing bai k then alio the annuity of eigh
dollars : Ana thus the matter proceeds j the ca
pita! left in circulation diminilhingeach year, ant
coming neardr to the level of the annuity draw,
back. There are however some differences in thi
ultimate operation of the part of. the debt, whicl
is purchased by foreigners and that which re
mains in the hands of citizens. But the gene
ral erte& ijx each cafe, though in different degrees
it to add to the a&ive capital of the country.
Hitherto th« reasoning has on a con
cefiion of the position, tnat tfiere is a dtitrudboi
of some other capital, to the extent of the annu
ity appropriated to the payment cf the intetcf
and the redemption of the principal of the debt ;
hut In this, too rt>uel\ has. L-een-cuneeded- -Tmh
is at mod a temporary transfer of some other capi
tal, to the amount of the annuity, from thof
who pay to the creditor who receives 5 which hi
again rertores to the circulation to resume the of
sices of a capital. This he docs either immedi
atcJy by employing the money in forac branch 0
industry, or mediately by lending it to some othe
person, who does so employ it, or by spending i
on his own maintenance. In eitlrer supposition
there is no deftru&ion of capital : there is no
thing more than a fufpenlion of its motion for ;
time 5 that is, whiie it is palling from the hand
of those who pay into the public coffers, am
thence through the public creditor into fomi
other channel of circulation. Whrn the payment
of interest are periodical and quick, and made b;
the inftrumentaiity of aanks, the diversion o
fufpeniion of capital may almost be denominate"
momentary. Hence tie deduction on this ac
count is far less, than it at firlt fight appears to be
There is evidently, as far as regards the annu
ity, no deftruftion nor transfer of any other ca
pital, than that poition of the income of eacl
individual, which gees to make up the annuiry
The land which furnilhes the farmer with thi
sum which he is to contribute remain's the fame :
and the like may be observed of other capitals
Indeed as far as the tax, which is the object 0
contribution (as frequently happens when it doc
not opprels by its weight) may have been a mo
tive to greater exertion in any occupation 5 it ma;
even serve to encreafe the contributory capital
This idea is not without importance in the gene
ral view of the fubjeft.
It remains to lee, what further dedu6lior
ought to be made from the capital which is crea
ted, by the exigence of the debt, on account 0;
the coin, which is employed in its circulation.
This is susceptible of much less precise calcula
tion than the article wbich has been jufldifcufled,
it is impofiiole to fay what proportion of coin i:
receflary to carry on the alienations which an}
species of property usually undergoes. The quan
tity indeed varies according to circumstances. Bui
it may still without hesitation be pronounced,
from the quickness of the rotation, or rather oJ
the transitions, that the medium of circulatior
always bears bur a Imall proportion to the amouni
of the f.) operty circulated. And it is thence fa
tisfaftorily deducible, that the coin employed ir
the negociation9 of the funds, and which serves tc
give them activity, as capital, is incomparably
less than the lum of the debt negotiated for th«
purpose of business.
It ought not, however, to be omitted, that the
negociation of the funds becomes itfelf a diftind
business j which employs, and by employing, di
verts a portion of the circulating coin from other
pursuits. But making due allowance for this
circumftaiKe, there is no reason to conclude, thai
the effett of the diversion of coin in che whole
operation bears aay conficerable proportion tc
the amount of the capital to which it a6ti
•vity. The sum of the debt in circulation is con
tinually at the command of any ufeful entcrprifcj
By PHILIP b RENEAU.
M O N D A Y, January 2, 1792.
• . ■. . .
he £c:n itfetf wlaich circulate? it, is never (port
,lian mcnien riiy lulponded . from its ordinary
<ua6\ion>. It experiences sn incclTant ard rapid
fi'wx and r<*fl*X''to and from the'channels of induf
trv co'thofe of Speculations in the funds.
There are !>rong cireutnftances in confirmation
of this theory. The force" of rr\onied capita!
*hjch ha-s been, displayed in Great-Britain, 3nd j
the height to which every.species '6? fhdutfrj ha*;
frown »p under it, defy a solution from the quan-j
111y of coin which that kingdom has ever pW- •
ieifed. it has trcen with \\i>
funding fvifc ni, tlx; prevailing opinion 01 the
men of bufmefs, and. of the generality of the
most fugacious theories oi that counciy, that tfat
operation of the j»\rt»Jjc funds as capital has coi>-
tribuced to the effa& in question. AnjQrij our
'ftlves appearances tlwu far favoV the fattlt con
clusion. induftrv in general fe'.ms to have teen
reanimated. There are symptoms indicating an
exteufion of our. commerce. Our navigation haj-;
certainly cf late had a considerable j
"there appears to be in many parts oi the timon a.
command of capital) vhrch,' rill Irftelj', finccthe
revolution at least, was unknown. But 1t .is ui
the fame tirne to be acknowledged, that othej
circuroftances have concurred (and in a great de
gree) in producing the present state of things, and
that the appearances are not yet fufiiciently deci
sive to be relied upon.
In the quell ion under difcufiian, it is impor
tant to d.fHnguifh between an abjilute encreafe c/'
tftiial 3 orpnaccejjionofreal iveu:tb and an
filial ettcrfaje of capitaly as an engine of buljnel$ 3
or as an , instrument of iriduttry "'"and commerce.
In the firft sense, a funded debt has no preten
tions to being deemed an encreafe of capital} in
the last, it has pretentions which are not easy to
be cyntroverred. Of a fim'ilar nature is bank
credit, and, in an inferior degree, every species
of private credit.
But though a funded debt is not ir. th« firft in
stance, an absolute encreafe of capital, or aa aug
mentation of real wealth j yet by Ifrving as a
Uew power in the operations of industry, it has
within certain bounds a tendency to encreafe the
real wealth of a community $ in like manner
money borrowed by a thrifty farmer, to be laio
out in the improvement of his farm, m«y, in tiv: '
end, add to his stock of real riches.
There are refpediahie individuals, who, from a
juA aversion to an accumulation of public deb:,
lity, who can discern no good to alleviate the il!
with which they suppose it pregnant j who can
not be that it ought in any sense to be
viewed as an encreafe of capital, left it fliould be
inferred, that the more debt the more capital, the
greater the burthens the greater the bleiiings of
the community.
But it ijiterefls the public councils to ertimate
every object as it truly is j to appreciate how far the
good in any measure i; compensated by the ill j
r»r the ill by the good j either of them is seldom
unmixed.
Neither wi!! v. follow, that an accumulation of
debt is desirable, becau»e a certain degree of ir
operates as capital. There may be a plethora ir
the political, as in the natural body j there ma)
be a ft ate of things in which any such artificial
capital is iinnecelfary. The debt too may be
swelled to such a size, as that the greater! part or
it may cease to be ufeful ai". capital, serving on
ly to pamper the difiipation of idle and diiTolute
individuals ; as that the sums required to pay
the interest upon it may Lecotue oppreflive, ano
beyond the means which a government can em
ploy, confidently with its tranquility, to raift
them ; as that the reJqurccs of taxation, to face
the debt, mav have en drained too far to ad
mit of extensions adequate to exiger.cies, which
regard the pubiic fafery.
Where this critical point is, cannot be pro
nounced j but it is hnpotftble to believe, that
there is not such a point«-
And as the viciJlitudes of nations beget a per
petual tendency to the accumulation of debt,
there ought to be in every government a perpetual,
anxious and unceasing effort to reduce that,
which at any time exilts, as fafl: as shall be prac
ticable, confidently with integrity and good faith.
Reasonings on a fubjett comprehending ideas
so abftraft and complex, so little reducible to
precise calculation as those which enter into the
question just difcufTed, are alvVavs attended with
a danger of running into fallacies. Due allow
ance ought therefore to be made for this polli
bility—But as far as the nature of the fubjedt ad
mits of it, there appears to be fatisfa&ory ground
for a belief that the public funds operate as a re
source of capital to the citizens of the Uniter
States, and, it they are a refoutce at all, it is an
extensive one.
To all the argument's which are brought so
evince the impracticability of success in manufac
turing establishments in the United States, it
might have been a fufficient answer to have re
ferred to the experience of what has been alr,ead\
done—lt is certain that fsveral important branch
es have grown up and flourifhed with a rapiditj
which surprises; affording an encouraging aflu
rance of success in future attempts ; of these it
may not be improper to enumerate the mod con
siderable.-—
I. Of Jk'mt. Tanned and tawed leather,
drefied ikins, rtioes, boots and flippers, harnefsj
and fadlery of all kinds, portmanteaus and;
r i <ks, leather gloves, muff s and tij.
p;.:-, parchment and glue.
'i. Of Ircr. Bar an J sheet iron, Heel, nai
| ro s and nails, itflpVemjefi'iS of" hufb indjw, stoves,
po's and other houflwld u tenuis, the steel anc
iron work of carriages, and for ship building
aC'hors, scale beams and weights, and variou:
taoU of artificers, arms of different kinds ; tha
.!) manufacture of these last has of lale dimi
nj/Siici for want of demand.
*11. Of IVocd. Ships, cabinet wares, an<
wool and cotton cards, and other ma
'chinjfry for manufactures'and hufbandr),
m rical instruments, coopers wares of every kind
V. OfFiax and Hemp. Cables, lail c lot h
cc "Jage, twine and pack thread.
*/". Bricks and coarse tiles, and potters wares
•'I. Ardent spirits, and malt liquors.
r ' 11 Writing and printing paper, ihearhinj
1 wr-apping paper, paste boards, fullers or pref
kvi paper hangings.
F in. Hats of fur and wool and of mixture
r- orh. W'omrns fluff and iilk fhoe6.
' \ K.. Refined fuga-rs.
. Oils of animals and feeds, soap, fpermace
ti : id tallow candles.
I. Copper acbrafs ware?, particu larlv utensil
fV fifti Iters-, sugar refiners and brewers, andiron
a 1 othei articles for houfhold ufe—philofophica
aj. Katus>.
, ;/JI. Tin wares for mod purposes of ordinary
\u&
2'JJI. Carriages of all kinds.
511 V, Snuff, chewing and fmoaking tobacco
},V. St-arch and hair powder.
y.YL Lampblack and other painters colours,
Gunpowder.
Lefides manufactories of these articles whicl
arv Carried on as regular trades, and base attain
ed 'b a considerable degree of maturity, cherc i
a vfcene of houfhold manufacturing, whicl
cor ributes more largely to the supply of the com
uiuiiry, than could be imagined j without hav
;ngt made it an objeCt of particular enquiry. Thi
ouJcrvation is the pleasing result of the inveftiga
tia.\, to which the subjeCt of this report has led
. jni'it is applicable as well to the southern as t
he middle and nenhern states j great quantity
' f oarfe cloths, coatings, serges and fianneb
j*,. y-woolfeys« hosiery of wool, cotton 2c thread
CO* fr fuftians, jeans and muslins, checked am
cotton and linen gr>ods, bedticks, cover
V ;e-ss;j coarfc fUvtiiws
sheetings, toweling and table hnrn, anxi varioa
mixtures of wool and cotton, and of cotton am
flax, arc mads in the houfhold way, and in ma
ny instances to an extent not only fufHcient so
the supply of the families in which they are made
but for faie, and even in some cases for exporta
tion. It is computed in a number of distriCt
that two-thirds, three-foarths, and even four
fifths of all the cloathing of the inhabitants an
made by th<*mfelves. The importance of ft
great a progress, as appears to have been madeii
family manufactures, within a few years, bod
in a moral and political view, renders the fad
highly interefling.
Neither does the above enumeration cofnpre
j hend all the articbs that are manufactured as re.
gular trades. Many others occur, which an
eqeally well eftabli/hed, but which not being o
equal importance have been omitted. And then
are many attempts (till in their infancy, whicl
though attended with very favorable appearances
could not hav been properly comprized in ai
enumeration of manufactories already eftablifned
There are other articles alio of great importance
wlich, though ftriCt'y fpeaJcing, manufactures
arl omitted, as being immediately conneCtei
husbandry : such are fiour, pot and pear
ail, pitch, tar, turpentine and the like.
'There remains to be noticed an objection t<
ttreencouragement of manufactures, of a natun
different from those which q.ueftion the probabili
ty of fucccfc—This is derived from its fuppofei
tendency to give a monopoly of advantages to par
titular ciafles at the expence of the reft of th<
i community, who, it is affirmed, would be abli
to procure the requisite supplies of manufacture*
articles on better terms from foreigners, thai
i from our own citizens, and who, it is alledged
I aie reduced to a necefiity of paying an enhance<
price for whatever they want, by every measure
which obftruCis the free competition of foreigi
commodities;
It is not an unreasonable supposition, that mea
fures which serve to abridge the free competitor
of foreign articles, have a tendency to occasion ar
enhancement of prices, and it is not to be denied
that such is the efieCt in a number of cases ; bui
the faCt dees not uniformly correlpond with the
theory- A reduction of prices has in several in
(lances immediately succeeded the eftablifhmcnl
of a domestic manufacture# Whether it be thai
foreign manufacturers endeavor to supplant, b)
uuderfelling our own, or whatever else be the
caufc, the effeCt has been such as is Sated, and
the reverse of what might have been expeCted.
But though it were true, that the immediate
and certain effeCt of regulations controuling the
competition of foreign with domestic fabrics was
an encreafe of price, it is univerfaily true, that
the contrary is the ultimate effeCt with every fuc
cefsfui mnnufaCture. When a domestic manu
facture has attained to perfection, and has enga
ged in the prosecution of it a competent numbei
of persons, it invariably becomes cheaper. Be-
free from the heavy charges, which attenc
Numb. 19.
che importation of foreign commodities, it can
oe ast" rled, and accordingly seldom or never
fjila to be fold cheaper, in process of time, than
was tl e foreign article for which it: is a substitute.
The internal competition, worth takes pl-ee,
soon does away everything like monopoly, 'and
by degrees reduces the price of the article to tl e
minimum of a reasonable profit on the capital enr
ployed. This accords with the reason of tl t
chinp and with experience.
Whence it follows, that it ij thjs inrereftcf a
Community, with a view toeventual and perma
nent ceccnomy, to encourage the growth of manu
aCtures. In a national view, a temporary
enhancement of price rr.uft alw: y , be well com
perrfafed by a permanent reduction of it.
Jt is a reflection, which may with propriety bi
indulged here, that this eventual diminution of the
prices of manufactured articles, which is the re
pslt of internal m&nufaCturing effabUfhments, has
i direCt and very important tendency to benefit
igricuiture. It enables the farmer, to procure
A'iih a fmallet quantity of his labor, the manufac
tured produce,of which he stands in need, and
confpquently encreafes the value of his income
md property.
The objections which are commonly made to
lie expediency of encouraging and to the probabi
icy of succeeding in manufacturing pursuit*, in
he United Scaces, having now been difcufTed, the
onliderations which have appeared in the course
>f the discussion, recommending that species of in
lultry so the patronage of the government, will be
naterially strengthened by a few general and some
►articular topics, which have been naturally re
"erved for subsequent notice.
I. There seems to be a moral certainty, that the
rade of a country which ii both manufacturing and
igricultural, will be more lucrative and prolperous
ban that of a country, which is merely agjicultu
?!.
One reason for tlis is found in that general ef-
Fort .of nations (which has been already mention
ed) to procure from their own foils, the articles of
wume neceiiity requisite to their own consumption
Mid use ; and which serves to render their demand
for a foreign supply of such articles in a great de
cree occasional and contingent. Hence, while the
neceflities of nations exclusively devoted to agri
:ulture, for the fabrics of manufacturing states are
:onftant and regular, the wants of the latter for
he produ&s of the former, are liable to very con*
IderabJe fluctuations and interruptions. The
a. /iu»ar Crfl#rcece 01
feafors, have been eifewnere remarked : this uni
formity of demand on one fide, and unsteadiness
sf it, on the other, rr.uft necessarily have a tenden
cy to cause the general course of the exchange of
commodities between the parties to turn to the
djfadvantage of the merely agricultural states.
Peculiarity of situation, a climate and foil adapt
jd to the production of peculiar commodities
may, fomctiines, con • adiCt the rule j but there
s every leafon to believe that it will be found in.
:he main, a just one.
Another circumstance which gives a fuperiori
:v of commercial advantages to states, that manu
facture, as well as cultivate, consists in the more
icnaerous attractions, which a more diverfified
market offers to foreign cuttomers, and in th£
;reater scope, which it affords to mercantile en
srprife. It is a portion of indisputable truth in
commerce, depending too on very obvious rea
sons, that the greatest resort will ever be to those
marts, where comrn6dities, while equally abun
dant, are most various. Each difference of kind
kolds out an additional inducement: and it is £
position not less clear, that the field of enterprise
must be enlarged to the merchants of a country,
in proportion to the variety, as well as the abun
dance of commodities which they find at home
for exportation to foreign markets.
A third circumstance, perhaps not inferior to either
of the other two, conferring the superiority which
has been stated, has relation to the stagnations of
lemand for certain commodities which at some
time or other interfere more or less with the sale
»f all- I ——The nation which can bring to market
but few articles is likely to be more quickly and
fenllbly aft'eCted by such stagnations, than one,
which is always pofiefTed of a great variety of
commodities : the former frequently finds too great
a portion of its stock of materials, for sale or
sxchange, lying on hand—or is obliged to make
injurious facrifices to supply its wants of foreign
irticles,' which are numerous and urgent, in pro
portion to the fmallnefs of the number of its own.
The latter commonly finds itfelf indemnified, by
the high prices of some articles, for the low pri
ces of others—and the prompt and advantageous
sale of those articles which are in demand enables
its merchants the better to wait for a favorably
changr, in respeCt to those which are not. Ther e
s ground to believe, that a difference of fitua..
ion, in this particular, has immensely different
'ffeCts upon the wealth and prolperity of nations.
From these circumstances colleCtively, two im
portant inferences are to be drawn ; one, that
there is always a higher probability of a favorable
balance of trade, in regard to countries, in which
manufactures founded on the basis of a thriving
agriculture flourifh, than in regard to those, which
are confined wholly or almeft wholly to agricul
ture ; the other (which is also a confequenceof the
firft) that countries of the former description are
likely to pofiefs more pecuniary wealth, or room**
than ihofc of the latter.
(left page.)The following description is annexed to the
plan of the city of Washington in the
diftnEl oj Columbia, as sent to Congress
by the Prejdent Jome days ago.
Plan of the tity intended for the per
manent feat of the Government oi
the United States, projected agreea
bly to the direction of the Irefident oi
the United States, in pursuance of ar
AG: of Congress, pasTed on the i6tl
July, 1790, " establishing the perma
nent feat on the banks of the Potow
mack"—By Peter Charles L' En
fant.
\Obfervations explanatory of the plan.']
I. ' J positions for the differenl
A grand edifices, and for the seve
ral grand squares or areas of differenl
shapes as they are laid down, were firfl
determined on the moll advantageous
ground, commanding the most exten
live profpetls, and the better iulceptiblf
of such improvements as the variou:
interests of the several objects may re
quire.
11. Lines or avenues of direst com
munication have been devised to con
ne£l the and moll diflant obje£l
with the principals, and to preferv<
through the whole a reciprocity of fig'i
at the fame time. Attention has beer
paid to the passing of those leading a
venues over the most favorable grounc
for profpeftand convenience.
111. North and south lines, interfeft
ed by others running due east and wef
make the distribution of the city intc
llreets, squares, &c. and those lines have
been so combined as to meet at certair
given points with those divergent ave
nues, so as to form on the spaces " firl
determined," the different squares, oi
areas, whichare all proportional in mag
nitude to the number oi avenues leadins
to them.
Breadth of the streets.
Every grand transverse avenue, anc
every principal divergent one, such a
the communication from the President'
house to the Congress house, &c. an
160 feet in breadth, and thus divided
10 feet for pavement on each feet
fide, is 2<
30 -i" gravel walk, planted with
trees on each fide, 6c
80 i the middle for carriage way 8c
16c
The other streets are of the following
dimensions, viz.
Those leading to the public build- feet
ings or markets, 13c
Others, 1 ' 1C
J 9 C
In order to execute the above plan
Mr. Ellicott drew a true meridian lin:
by celestial observation, which passe:
through the area intended for the Con
gress house; this line he crossed by ano
ther due east and weft, and which palfei
through the fame area. These line:
were accurately mcafured, and made the
bases on which the whole plan was
executed. He ran all the lines by z
transit instrument, and determined the
acute angles by actual measurement.
and left nothing to the uncertainty oi
the compass.
[References.]
A. The equestrian figure of George
Washington, a monument voted in 1783
by the late Continental Congress.
B. An historic column—also inten
ded for a mile or itinerary column, from
whose llation (at a mile from the federal
house) all distances of places through
the continent are to be calculated.
C. A naval itinerary column, propo
sed to be erected to celebrate the firfl
rife of a navy, and to stand a ready mo
nument to consecrate its progress anc
atchievements.
D. A church intended for nationa'
purposes, such as public prayer, thanks
givings, funeral orations, &c.and affign
<ed to the special ule of no particulai
fefclor denomination, but equally open
to all. It will likewise be a proper
shelter for such monuments as were vo
ted by the late Continental Congress,
for those heroes who fell in the cause
of liberty, and for such others as may
hereafter be decreed by the voice of a
grateful nation.
E. E. E. E. E. Five grand foun
tains, attended with a constant spout
-of water.
N. B. There are within the limits ol
the city 25 good springs of excellent
■water, abundantly supplied in the driest
leafon of the year.
i". F. A grand caff ade, forme dos thl
A'atcr of the sources of the Tiber.
G. G. Public walk, being a square of
icoo feet, through which carriages may
ifcend to the upper square of the federal
"louse..
H. A grand avenue 400 feet inbreadth,
md about a mile in length, bordered
with gardens ending in a slope from the
r.oufes on each fide ; this avenue leads
'.o the monument A. and connects the
Congress garden with the
I. Prelidcnt's park and the
K. Well improved- field, being a
partof the walk from the President's
rioufe of about 1800 feet in breadth, and
hree fourths of a mile in length. Eve
ry lot deep coloured, t-ed with green
slots, defignatcs some of the situations
«vhich command the moll agreeable
jrofpects, and which are bed calculated
or spacious bouses and gardens, such
is may accommodate foreign minifteis,
&c.
L. Around this square, and all along
he
M. Avenue from the two bridges to
he federal house, the pavements in
:ach fide will pass under an arched
inderwhofe cover fliops will be m, 1
:onvenicntly and agreeably fituat', .
his street is 160 feet in breadth, anr
nile long.
The fifteen squares coloured yelk- ,
ire proposed to be divided among ' e
everal states, in the Union, for each; ,f
hem to improve, or subscribe a 1
idditional to the value of the land | ;r
hat purpose, and the improver,s
■ound the squares to be completed 1 a
imited time.
The center ofeacn square will adin.t
statues, columns, obelisks, or any o
her ornaments, such as the different
fotps may choose to erect, to perpetuate
lot only the memory of such individu
als whofc councils or military atchie!v
nents were conspicuous in giving lilier
y and independence to this c-ountry ;
jut those whose ufefulnefs hath ren
dered them worthy of imitation : to in
cite the youth of succeeding generations
o tread in the paths of those sages 01
lieroeswhom their country hath thought 1
proper to celebrate.
The lituation of those squares is ft dftv
that they are the molt advantageously
md reciprocally fe£%£fim each oijcr v
and as equally duTributed over the
whole city diftrift, and conne&ed by
[ pacious avenues round the grand fede
ral improvements, and as contiguous
to them, and at the fame time as equally
distant from each other as circumflances
would admit. The settlements roiind
these squares must soon become con
lefted.
The mode of taking pofleffion of, and
Improving the whole diftritl at firft,
null: leave to posterity a grand idea of
:he patriotic interest which promoted
it.
The small spaces coloured red, are
ntended for the use of all religious
denominations, on which they are to
:reft places of worship, and are propo
ed to be allotted to them in the manner
is those coloured yellow are to the
iifferent states in the Union ; but 10
>urying- grounds will be admitted wi h
n the limitsof the city, an appropriati in
>eing intended for that purpose witn
>uti
N. B. There are a number of squares,
>r areas, unappropriated, and in fituati
>ns proper for colleges and academies.
>f which every society, whose objctl is :
lational, may be accommodated. j
Every house within the city will
land square on the streets, and every;
ot on the divergent avenues will run'
quare with their fronts on the most a-j
:ute angle, will not measure less than 'i
36 feet, and may well be above 140
cet.
Some of the streets running north and
outh, and east and weft, are about 1200
soles, and the transverse Itreets abojt!
1300 poles.
Latitude of Congress house, 38. 53. N.
ong. o. o.
X. Tiber Creek. The water of this i
:reek is intended to be conveyed on the
nigh ground were the Congress house
[lands, and after watering that part of
:he city, its overplus will fall from un
der the hafe of the edifice, and in a cas
cade of 2a feet in height, and 50-m
breadth, into -the -fefervoir below,
thence to run in three falls through the
gardens into the grand canal.
The perpendicular height of the
ground where the Congress hoiue'
stands, is above the tide of Tiber creek
78 feet,
Perpendicular height of the wed
branch above the tide in Tiber creek
115 feet, 7 inches and t v., eighths.
This branch and that of the '1 ber i:
intended to be conveyed to the Preii
dent's house.
From the entrance of the river Po
towmack up to the second, the depth ol
water is from 5 1-3 to 4 fathomr—the
deepest all along the shore where
wharves are marked.
PHILADELP H I A.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE.
Wednesday, December 28.
A memorial was read from the Legis
lature of New-Hampshire, rc'prefentin?
the inequality and injustice of the ah
for the alfumption of the slate debts, and
praying redress for the injuries fullain
;d thereby in the said flate—Referrec
.0 the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Otis delivered a message from the
Senate, that they had passed the bill,
lent to them by the House for concur
rence, tor carrying into effett a contrafi
3Ct.ween the United States and the slate
Df Pennsylvania, for the purchase o:
ands bordering on Lake Erie.
A petition was read from Williarr
Bailey, late a major in the flying camp
praying compenlation for services ren
dered &c.—ordered to lie on the table.
A petition of Ebenezer Cowel, for re
million of money advanced to him, dur
_ng the war, on account of a contrafi
or gunsmiths work—Referred to a pri
vate committee,
A petition of James Watson, praying
ndemnification for loss of certificate:
ind paper money, deltroyed by fire—
deferred to the Secretary of the
ury.
A message was received from the Pre
ident by Mr. Lear, his Secretary, ac
companied with the copy of a letter re
.eived from the Attorney General of the
.Jnited States, complaining of certaii:
lifficulties in the execution of his of
ice.
The House tbon resumed the confd
■ration ot the amendment reported b)
he committee of the whole House tc
he Poll-office Bill—After some discus
:ion, the amendments were, in part
agreed to, and others disagreed to. The
privilege ofJranking letters was agreec
obe continued to the members of both
Eioufcs, and conferred on the Sccre
ary of the Senate, the Clerk of ths
louse of Representatives and some othei
officers. An amendment was also agrcec
o, fubjefting newspapers convoyed ir
the ma:l to a poflage of one cent for ar
hundred miles, and a cent and an hal.
for any greater diflance—and that the
Post-masters of Portsmouth (N.IL) Bos
ton, Providence, New-York, Philadel
phia, Baltimore, Annapolis, and Charles
ton, (S. C.) be authorised to fend letter:
to the houses of the persons, to whoa
addressed, and to charge for such con
veyance, one cent on each letter, in ad
dition to the poflage.
Thursday, December 29.
The written message received yeflcr
day from the Prelielent. together witl.
the Attorney General's letter therein
referred to, was ordered to be referred
to the committee for considering the At
torney General's report on the Judicia
ry lyftem.
The petitions of Adam Gib'nart and
William Langley were read, praying
compensation for services in the army
during the war—Referred to the Secre
tary at War.
The petition of James Rumfey wa;
ordered to be referred to the committee
for promoting the progress of the ufe
ful arts.
The House then proceeded to the fur
ther confederation of the bill for ella
blifiling a Poft-office and Post-roads, to
gether with the amendments.
Several other amendments beingmade
and agreed to, and others disagreed to,
the further consideration of the Bill was
ptrflponed till to-morrow.
Friday, December go.
Several petitions were read, praying
relief for services rendered, &c. in the
army of the United States during the
iati war—Referred to the Secrefary at
U ar.
A petition of Abraham Darlirigtan,
praying paytnent for impressed property
: or the use of the armv, during the war—
Referred to the Secretary of the.'JTreafury.
Mr. Bourne, from the committcetfor
mrolled bills, reported the bill for " car
i ving into etteft a contract between the
United States and Pennfylvarna," and
:hat they had found it truly inrolled—
H'hereupon the Speaker signed the bill,
»nd the Clerk was ordered to acquaint
:he Senate therewith.
A memorial was read from Mr. John
-hurchman, requeuing government to
Datronize him in undertaking a voyage
0 Baffin s bay,for making dilcoveries to
.infirm his new theory of the variation
>f the magnetic needle—Laid on the
able.
A mefTage was received from the Pre
ident bv Mr. Lear, with a copy of the
, itification, by the commonwealth of
Virginia, of the articles of amendment
iropofed by Congress to the Conftitu
iou of the United States; and a copy
if a letter accompanying the fame from
:he governor of Virginia.
A petition was read from fundrv in
habitants of Northumberland countv. in
Pennsylvania, praying the repeal of so
much of the act. palled at the la ft session,
aying a duty on spirits distilled within
.he United States, as refpefts the duty
Dn spirits distilled from materials the
jrowth of the UnitedStates—Ordered tD
lie on the table.
The lioufe then, in committee of the
.vhole, took into conlideration the bill
or extending the time limited for the
_ettlement of the accounts of the United
States with the individual states—aster
"ome time spent therein,! the committee
rose and reported the billl with an addi
tional feftion, for increasing the salary
sf the chief clerk in the commissioner's
office," so as to be equal so the salary of
he principal clerk in the Auditor's of
ice—which was agreed to by the House,
md the bill ordered to be engroifed for
\ third reading, on Monday next.
The House proceeded to conlider the
report of the committee, refpefting the
obtaining from the Treasury annual and
regular statements of the receipts and
;xpenditures of all public monies, and
:he due examination of such llatements.
One of the refoluiions reported by
he committee was adopted, viz. Tliat
t shall be the duty of the Secretary of
he Treasury to lay before the House on
he third Monday of October, if the
1 louse be then in session, or if not, with
n the hrfl week of the session, a regular
tatemeat of receipts and expenditures
Or the preceding year.—Adjourned.
[From a late French Paper.]
Present State of Affairs in ROME.
I HE Pope, who is, like many other
overeigns, a merv slave to the caprici
>us jealousy of his court, at present may
)e compared to nothing so aptly as a
nud turtle, who upon any alarm of dan
ger, contrasts all his parts within the
hell, and lies snug till the danger is o
/er. The Holy Father now pays the
nod scrupulous attention to the pro
reedings of other powers, keeps his eyes
vide open, hears every thing, and fays
ittle or nothing. Every paper, howe
. er, that is puhlifhed under his authori
y, diicovers his deep chagrin at the near
srofpeft of eccleliaflical influence in po
itical afFairs being banished from Eu
ope. That other world, upon which
le has for so many ages fixed his engines
or his own emolument, seems to be dif
tppearing, and the mod uninformed of
lis fubjefts begin to fufpeft that neither
lis palfports to Paradise nor his bills
Irawn upon the house of St. Peter, will
ie duly honoured. It is generally be
ieved by the vulgar people of Rome,
for, nearly 15 centuries have elapsed
incc there existed in reality a Raman,
itoplt] that, from the present coarse of
:vents, the consummation of all tilings is 4
it hand. To confirm this idea, the Re
flations and other unintelligible books
ire continually quoted by some ; while
Jthers support an opinion somewhat
different, from the oracles of the Abbe
Joachim. This holy perlon has care
fully (luiied the prophecies of Mala
chi, and infers from thence that after
the derr.ife of the present Pope, Pius the
lixth (whose fruitlefs journey to Vien
na has got him the nick name of the
Apojlokcal Pilgrim) there will only ap
pear sixteen more.and then the last judg
ment will come. He averages the reigncfeach cf those 16 Popes at ten years, so
that the year 2000 the present
system of nature, as far as regards this
earth, may be expetted to be at an en
tire end.
People of better information liftento!
these follies and fay nothing; they are!
however not the leis convinced that
this is a piece of church (peculation :
the holv mother hoping, no doubt, that
while her fubjefts arc held under such
delusions, they will be no lels willing
now, than in former ages, to depolit
that wealth upon her altars, which must
be useless to them, at the approaching
conclusion of all things. Such as think
for themlelvcs, like other men offenle
in all countries, wish well to the en
creafeof knowledge, horielty, morality
and benevolence, as the only means to
dillipate the milts of ignorance and the
abule of laws : and the practice of
which will at leafl render the iituation
of marikiad tolerable during their Ihort
abode in this valley of milery.
Tranjlalionfrom the Leyden Gazitte,
of a late dzte.
r If we may give any credit to the re
ports of a counter revolution in France,
there now exists in Euiope a combined
army fulficient to attack tlie frontiers
of the kingdom with a prafpefct of suc
cess. According to tneie reports, this
army is every day vilibiy encrealing,
and the allied princes have put things
in such a train, that they would meet
with little or no opposition to the very
gates 01 Paris ; where, it is expected, the
internal dilputes of the citizens would
complete what panic had begun. There
is no doubt but this is exaggeration, but
it is nevcrthclefs too certain, that a spi
rit of discord has taken polfeiiion of the
capital of France, The ill humour, oc
caiioned by the high price of bread, is
without end ; and only a few days ago,
a reinlorcement of troops was lent lor
to prcierve order in the market houses.
All exceifes of this kind may be conii
dered as the effect of the manoeuvres ol
the anti-revolutionifls, who delire no
thing so much as to fee the people in a
irate of turbulence and discord, in order
to have a pretence to fay, that the king
was ccnftrained to accept the conltitu
tion. The anti-revolutionifls are, alio,
much spirited up by M. de Noailies
late report to Che National /kiiciiibiy
on the actual itate of the French army.
Indeed, if the negligence of the war de
partment has left ttie kingdom in such
an indefenlible itate as this deputy re
ports it to be, there areiuflicient grounds
lor uneafineis. But when we call i<j
mind that only a few months are elapsed
since M. de Noailies made a very favor
able report on the fame fubje^t—it may
i>c asked, which report mult we gi\ e
credit to P—it is our opinion that lie
has laid too much on both occalions ;
having too much praiied the army in hi;
fir ft. report, and too much depreciated it
in his last. It is certain that the pre
sent establishment of the French army ii
not so refpettable as it would be, il un
der the most perfedt subordination. But
their want of discipline is not so glaring
as many would perluade us. It is the
fan e with the troops on the frontiers ;
altho' not in the belt pollible ihate ol
defence, they are very far from beinc
either neglected or ruined.—They are
kept at work day and night ; anc
many of the old fortifications nave beer
repaired with incredible celerity and ,
degree of resolution, that could only bt
inipired by true patriotism. As lh<
particulars mentioned by M. de Noaille
are upon the point of being either veri
lied or proved falfe by letters and tra
vellers, —his report has not as yet hat
any eiteil upon the public credit.
BOSTON, December 22.
T he late unfortunate defeat of the army at th
veftward, :t is hoped will cauiion us from prole
cutmg any longer a war in that country —With
out dovbt many plausible rcalons will be advan
ced by thole v. hole ' dignity depends on a " wa
cftabiu'hment," urging the necclfity of recruitinj
for a similar expedition ; —But the present Con
grefs, it is prelumed, will not wantonly plunge th
United States into all the horrors of an Indian wat
merely to gratify the pride of a few ambition
' over grown'individuals; and to enable them t<
live in all the grandeur, pomp, and parade of Na
bobs, 'i lie principles ol the war it is hoped, wij
be thoroughly investigated, that the revenues o
thd States fliould not be wantonly expended i]
lifgraccful campaigns. Americans having jul
freed themfelvet from an expensive war, it is ou
iitueft to promote friendlhip and harmony wit!
all the world, and not to facrifice our young mei
and our money, to acquire territory by war, whil
la much land remains unsettled, and which court
our cultivation under the auspices of peace.
The ill policy of the measure miift be evident
for us to depopulate our own territory, to fettle 2
country which must for centuries remain entirelj
useless to us. The brave men already fallen on thii
expedition, were of more value than all the lands
provided we fliould finally poilcfs ourlllves o
them. The expence of conquering and fettling
them, is far beyond any advantage arising frorr
the acquisition. .Let us content ©urfelves witl
such bounds as we can manage with fafety.; an<
not explore regions, to fcek. an enemy, which as
Jer we have found, our army, though composed o
pur molt veten-n troops, fall an immediate facrific
—The blood of our countrymen is too preci
oua, to moifteu the foil of the wilder ness.
BALTI MOR E, Dec. 26.
Extrasl of a Utter si 0-n Car!i.fle, to a gentleman i
this town, dated Dec, 29.
" I join with you in lamer*dns the unhapp
fate of our little and particulaily that c
our friend general Butler—His lot, as at'firft re
presented, had been indeed tender mercy to him
when compared with what actually took place
Alter receiving his wound he was removed ti
the centre of the camp and placed between twi
meal sacks ; m tins fuuation he remained fom
time, lurrounded by fotne officers and a few sol
diers, whose number soon becamc reduced b
the enemy's fire. Perceiving this, and that th
main body had retired, he begged of those tha
were with hun not to remain longer on his ac
count, but to eicape, if poflible; observing that
few minutes mufl terminate his exigence,
that his was then leaving him. He gav
his ring, Iword and watch to one of the gentle
men, and; in exchange, requeued a loaded pistol
that he might, as long as poflible, defend himfeli
which was accordingly cocked and put into hi
hand—the party then fled, and left him to hi
Fate—'l his lad information was given by a gen
t!eman who was in the action, and palfcd yefiei
day, on his way to Philadelphia.
" If any thing more horrid is left to be told
it is that an unfeeling monster related the whol
toJGcn. Butler's diQiacicd wife."
< »' t*- J'•? \ ,V. -V-* 'as JSBI
PHILADELPHIA,
January 2, 1792.
The following refolmion was unanimoull 1
adopted in the house of representatives of th
Hate of PctinfylVanij, on Thursday lal!—" l'i
hived, That it is unnecellary to continue by an 1
legislative provision the objefci of the gd feflioi
ot a law, intituled, " An ait to repeal so muc]
ot an ati ol the general affemblv of this com
monwealth as prohibits diamatic entertainment
within the city of Philadelphia, or the neighbor
hood thereof, which expires on the 2d of March
1792, by its own limitation."
A leeo.id memorial has been received, ad
d relied to the governor of this (late, from a num
her of persons in hehalf of the inhabitants 0
VAA W-tlliingron, F-iyetVi, v<-id A 1
leghahy counties : the memorial, among otho
bings, dates the ablolute neeeiiity of forward
ng an immediate supply of arms and ammuni
1011 to the leveral county lieutenants, to be dil
ributed among the militia oi the country.
A numberof gentlemen in N.York have sub
eribed for a poitrait of Alexander Hamilton, Kin
ecretaryoft'rie treafuryof the U States. This nor
rait is to be executed by Mr. Trumbull, and pla
ed ,11 one of the public buildings of that city
riiefdbictiption paper still remains open at th
:oitee-houle.
On , huifday afternoon lafl anived in thi:
:ity, fix Indian chiefs from the Cheiokee nation
>ne fquew, and an interpreter. Ttveir 11 : mes an
is lolloi.s ; lmnnetua, or, liloody Fellow : age
leral: Otaaiau,Ot,K ngFiihei; a colonel : Katta
uego, or ,the North Nation ; a general—Kutta
]uj!a, or, the Prince ; an old warrior— Teyefiifky
>r the Utfiurber a captain—Shucwegtc, or
Jaiitain George—a Squaw, J.s. c
l'he interpreter, Mr. Carey.
On Friday last, the fix Indian chiefs, with tb<
nterprotei, paid a visit to the lederal hall in thi
:ity. /.Iter the house adjourned, they falutei
he speaker and leveral 01 the members, witl
hatnatuial, unattested polilends peculiar to ih;
indent inhabitants of this continent.
Or, Friday morning was prcfented to the Prefi
dented the U. States, a Box, elegantly mountei
.vith lilver, and made of the celebrated Oak Tre
hat iheltered the Washington of. Scotland, th<
arave and patriotic Sir William Wallace* afte
us defeat at the battle of Falkiik, in the begin
ingo! the fourteenth century, by Edward tlx
ift. This magnificent and truly characleritlica
irefent is fiom the Earl of Buchan, by the hand
jl Mr. Archibald hohertjen, a Scots gentleman
md portrait painter, who arrived in Americ;
ome months ago. The box was prelented tc
Lo.d Buchan by the Goldlmiths' company a
Edinburgh; from whom his lordfilip reijueiled
lud obtained leave to make it over to a mat
whom he deemed more delerving of it than him
self, and the only man 111 the world to whom In
.hought It jultly due. We hear further, thai
* Sir Wil'iam Wallace, at firjl a private gen
'■lemon, tojkcj.jt,/!y attempted a revolution i>.
Scotland, nearly on the Jur.e grounds with thai
more recently accompljhtd in America, to expel thi
Enrhf: and their adherents, who had vjurpedtk
government. Having gained a victory over Oh
'orces of Edaa< dthefiJt, at Stirling, heuiasfcoi,
■jfter attacked by Edward at the head of Bo,oic
to u t and 7,0-0 hoifc; whereas the whole force oj
Ml Wiltar.i did not exceed 30,000^foot; and t/u
main division of this army was tampered with by a
traitor, and rendered ojnovfe to the patriotic party.
Not long after the batttle oj Ealkirk, Sir William
was mad' prisoner by fme of Edward's bartizans
carricd to England, and beheaded* ' '
lojd Buchan has, by letter, requeued ofilie pre
fidi'nt, that, on the event of his decease, he will
coiifign the box to that man, in this country, who
shall appear, in his judgment, to merit it befi
upon he fame considerations th.it induced him to
fend it to the prefrnt poffelfor.
Ihe inlcriprion upon a silver plate, bn the
i nfie!e of the lid, is as follows . Prefnted Ix
the Go'.dfmiths cf Edinburgh, to David Stuart
Eyitine, Earl oj Buchan, with the freedom of their
corporation, bythxirdeacon AD. 1782.
On Monday tb<- -31b of December, hij excel
lenccy Alexander Martin, Esq. governor of ihc
commonwealth of North-Carolina, addrcded
noth hoiifes of the generr 1 alfembly, at the open
ing of their ledion. The great obje£U recom
mended to ihe legislature in the governor's
(perch are, an attention to the agriculture
and manufaflures of the slate, of which latter
the raw materials of htnip, cotton and silk, are
mentioned as moll congenial to the climate and
foil of North-Carolina, and such as claim cer
tain bounties for their better encouragement.
Th'.' internal navig tion of the Date is also re
commended as an objc£l Handing in need of le
giflaiive atfiftance particularly in regard to the
Roanoke, Neus, and Cape-pear rivers. The
Ipc h further contemplates a mitigation of
their criminal law, so far as to change the fen
fence of persons c jpitally condemned to hard
I-t. lor limited terms—Education and the
iniverfity are recommended as clatminga
pa alar support, fioin the edablilhment ol
i' * productive revenue—A proportion was
likii .e made, that the quedion for a permanent
fea:b.' government in the slate be submitted tc
aic convention, in consequence of the dif
fer of sentiment that prevailed in both
ho' . of the legislature on that fubje£l—and,
iaii iome further amendment and improve
me of the judiciary system of the slate.
lew days ago, a provifioi.al lupplemeni
wa: i.ade by the legislature of Maryland to tht
att ;ai!cd at their last feflion, " Direfiing tht
tinus, places, and manner of holding election:
for rcprefentatives of the slate of Maryland ir
the Congrcls of the United States."—'The sup
plemeat provides, that if the slate should be en
titled to nine members in the next house of re
prel'entatives of the Um ed States, in that cafe
the Hate lhall be divided into eight fpecifiec
diflritts, seven of which diflritis are to fend ont
member each, and the eighth (confiding of Bal
timore town, Baltimore and Hai ford counties
to be entitled to two members : The fupplemen
further provides,thatifthe slate lhall continue t(
be entitled only to eight members, then it fhal
be divided into eight diflricls, each diflriti ti
(endone member.
l(ie President of the United States has ap
pointed, by and with the advice and conlent of £ h
Senate, Lemuel Reddick, to be surveyor of th
port oI SuHolk, in the slate of Virginia, vice Ben
jamip Bsiilett, leligned.
ExtraH of a letterfrom Cape-Francois, Dec. 4.
" I writ to you on the 29th ult. mentioning th
disagreeable intelligence that had recently bee
received from Port-au-Prince relative to a difput
between the mulattoesand whites, wherein man'
lives were- fccrificed. Fire was fc-t to the towi
111 several places, and 27 squares out of 44
whereof it confided, are totally consumed. Th,
flreet called rue des capitaines, where the prin
cipal magazine of provisions and merchandiz:
were situated, fell a prey to the flames. In fine
we are told, that only four merchants house
have escaped the conflagration. 1 have seen ai
extract of a letter to one of the firfl commercia
houfej in this city, which dates the loss at 50-
r ; lions of livres-—the mulattocs immediatel
re; 1 fated to their camp at Croix des-Bouquet<
aiid '>e are told that the commandant of th
v. r 1 didncf, M. C'-outard, is with them
1 : . r .ame of civil discord seems to rage in thi
el:n.-..e with a degree of inveteracy unknown ii
o;! r countries. Nothing fcems to farisfy
p <an bat the facrifice of his opponent's iif,
an ! property. Thewoikof d.flrirtfioii havin;
ti"-; recommenced, omniscience onlv can tel
wiiie it will-terminate. Advices received lal
ei v 'i g from les Cayes mention, that one or tw<
chit's of the mulattcesatCroi des Bouquets hav.
p< hid inter the foutbern diSriQs, have fparitec
up uieir pajly in the vicinity of Cayes, taken po
ffe irton of several batteries, and threaten the towi
of Les Cayes itfclf. The planteis in that quar
ter it (hould seem, have taken refuge in the town
The victorious mulattoes proclaim, that unlef
they depart immediately, each to his habitation
& liirrer.der the town, tliey v.-ill deliver it and it.
inhabitants to fire and fwoid—what a diftrdfini
situation !— It is difficult, I find, to determin<
who is right and who is wrongin the fifll prin
ciplesof this tragical business—doubtless there i.
blame on all fides—l fear the result will be thi
ium of the colony."
Extract cf a letter frc,:i d gcnilertian in the tVefleri
country to hisfrit nd in Philadelphia, Dec. a 2.
" The disastrous fate of our little army strike:
a damp on every mind here, but when viewed ir
is natural confeottences, is inexpreflibly alarm
ing - God knows what (hall next be done !—Wi
had formed some expectations from the Kentuc
ky militia that were said to have gone oil; bu
I believe there is nothing in that.
" There is no doubt but that the pay mufl bs
raised at leafl to fix dollars, or no men worts
having can be got. The plan of retaining of pofl:
detached from the settlements and each other. I,
lioin the beginning, thought a visionary one, um
less connected with the idea of forming lettle
ments round cach of the pods. Donations cl
land ought to be made to the firfl families thai
would fettle round them. Strong gamfons
ought tobe placed in them to d:fead them; bribe
line Indians to Lily cut in cafe of an at lack,
on the settlement, and keep themselves and fet
iL'rs (afe. Companies of the be ft woodsmen
;md marksmen, of honed pride hat lavage man
ners- and as much Indians poflible, ought to be
retained in the iorts to prowl abroad among the
Indians in parties ot'ten, twenty, and thirty ; fur
>rife th. ix towns in alj quarters, and kill and
Him without difhnfclibn. This idea, so repug
iant tb the'feelings of a civilized mind, .and so
locking to a Pht»adelphian ear, I hesitate not
0 rxprcfs, from a pcrfcft convitlion that it is ne
-1 Ifa r y for our fafety, and is the onlv shield we
an place efi'<:6lual!y before us. Their minds
mifl be kepi in agitation at home of we can ne
erbelii'.'. Itis invain, I tJiinL, t& attempt
o bind Indian nations by treaty. Where is
>ur fecunty in men without govemrpe'nt. Ten
nen in every nation are fullicient t6 harrafs the
roriuers incefTantly. And we can find an hun«-
!reci favaor ruffians in every county amoit '
lurfelves '.hat wauld do as much fbr ; gain if tbey
lad no fear of laws.' li we had no European ri
■a]s we might do all by treaty, because their own
nterefls would oblige them to be at jK-ace for
he fake of our traeffc, if they could not do with
nit it. But till they have no other market than
Kir's fcr European articles, it is idle to imagine
hat we can secure our peacc from them but by
orce and fear. My scalping plan is liable to
ms objection, that if we have any friends
he Indians, our scouts, for the fake of gain, (for
o make them vigilant they ought to have addi
ional pay according to their fe; vices) would nor
icfitatc much to attack our friends. There will
herefore be a necelfity to eftablilh forts at
■"rclque Isle, &c. and make a chain between the
ix nations and other Indians; this might secure
he ofleniible fricndfliip of the fix nations, which
could be something, and if we had their real
riendfhip, would keep them in countenance,
nd fuinifii them with protection against the
itliers. In the forts near their friends they ought
0 have no scouting party, but a garrison and
•tilers. These garrilons would protest the fet
lers. The settlers would feed the garrison, and
11 together would form a good barrier for this
ountty."
GOVERNMENT.
IN monarchies there is a two fold danger—id,
1 liat the eyes of a good prince cannot fee all
ha' he ought to know—2d, That the har.ds of a
)ad one will not be tied by the fear of combina
10ns against him. B@th these evilsincreafe with
he extent of dominion; and prove, iontrary to
he received opinion, that monarchy is even
note unfit for a great ilate, than fora'fmall one,
lotwithflanding the greater tendency intheform
■r to that species of government.
Anftocracies. on the other hand, are generally
een in finall ftatcs: v. here a concentration of
he public will is required by external danger,
tnd that degree of concentration is found fufiki
'• t- ' 1-- many,.in such ran??ot govemc. ■
iccountof emergencies which require the prornp
ilude and precautions of a Jew, whilst the few
heinfelves, refill the usurpations of a f.ngle tv
ant. In Theflaly, a countrv interfered by
nountainous barriers into a number of small can
ons, the governments, according to Thucydidcs,
veie in most instances, oligarchical. Switzer
and ltlrnifhes hmilar examples,-—The Imaller
he slate, the less intolerable is this form of go
vernment, its rigors beingtcmpered by fhc facility
ind the fear of combinations among the people.
A republic involves the idea of popular rights.
K representative republic chujs the wisdom, of
which hereditary ariflocracy has the chance; whilst
it excludes the opprelfion of that form. And a
confederated republic attains the force of monar
chy, whilst it equally avoids the ignorance of a
■?6od prince, and theoppreffion of a bad one. To
lecure all ihe advantages of such a fyllem, every
citizen will be at once a centiael over the
rights of the people; over the authorities of the
-onfederal government; and over both the
rights and the authorities of the intermediate go
vernments, Dec. 31.
PRICE o.f STOCK.
t anted Debt.
oii per cents, per £. - - IT,}] I-l
Three per cents, ... tifi.
Deferred fix per cents, - jqj.
Unfunded Debt.
Final -fettlemeiits/ - - 2r/6.
Interest due previous to 17S8, jj/8.
Indents, - 12/5.
Bank Stock 1 2 Shares IS7 1-2 per cehr.
advanae for cafli.
Do. at 4 months 97 1-2 per Cent, advance,
flank Sc ipt 176 to 179 dollars.
Full (hares Bank Stock payable in May, ess
per cent, advance.
Deferred % ,r/ 7
MeTeo'r o log ic a l Observations,
December 1791.
D. H. Bar. Ther jlVmd. Weather
Monday, 26. 7 29. 85 28 s.w. Fair.
2 48 do. ditto.
lutfday, 27. 7 2§. g3O s.w. Fair.
~ 29. 9 46 do. Hazey.
IVednefday, 28. 7 29. 8 33 s.w. Fair.
j. 2 9- 75 5° (i °- Cloudy
Thurjday, 29.730. 1 33 n.w.Fair.
2 30. 12 41 do. ditto.
triday, 30. 7 30. 25 26 calm. Fair.
2 3°- J4 1 5 -w. Cloudy,
Saturday, 31. 7 30. 15 calm \Fair.
a 30. 1.5 48 n. e'.iCloudy.
Sunday, Jan.x. 7 30. 1 35 n.e. \Rain.
039 do, [ditto,Fa&s appear to correfpon.i with thisconcltUion.
The importations of manufactured supplies feerr
invariably to drain the merely agricultural peopli
of their wealth. Let the situation of the manu
facturing countries of Europe be compared in thi:
particular, with that of countries which only cul
tivate, and the disparity will be striking. Othe
causes, it is true, help to account lor this difpari
ty between foine of them ; and among these causes
the relative state of agriculture j but between o
thersof them, themo ft promhasnt circumftasice o
•<Ji flimi 1 it ude arises fiorn the comparative state o
manufactures. In corroboration of the fame idea
it ought not to escape remark, that the Weft-In
dia ifiands, the foils of which are tht most fertile
and the nation, which in the greatest degree sup
plies the reft of the world with the pitcious me
tals, exchange to a loss with aimoft every othe
country.
As far as experience at home may guide, it wii
lead to the fame conclusion. Previous to the Re
volution, the quantit) of coin, possessed by the co
Innies, which now compose the United States, ap
peared to be inadequate to their circulation j an<
their debt to Great-Britain was progreflive. Sinci
the Revolution, the dates, in which manufacture
have most encreafed, have recovered fafteft fron
the injuries of the late war j and abound most ir
pecuniary resources.
It ought to be admitted, however, in this as ir
the preceding cafe, thac causes irrelative to th<
state of manufactures account, in a degree, so
thephenomena remarked. The continual progref
of new settlements has a natural tendency to oc
caiion an unfavorable balance of trade j thougl
it indemnifies for the inconvenience, by that en
crease of the national capital which flows from thi
converlion of waste into improved lands : ant
the different degrees of external commerce, whicl
are carried on by the different states, may maki
material differences in the comparative state o
their wealth. The firft circumfta/ice has referenci
to the deficiency of coin and the encreafe of deb
previous to the revolution ; the last to the advan
tages which the most manufacturing states appea
to have enjoyed, over the oihers, fmce the termi
nation of the late war.
But the uniform appearance of an abundance o
specie, as the concomitant of a flourishing state o
manufactures, and of the reverse, where they d<
not prevail, afford a strong presumption of thei
favorable operation upon the wealth of a country.
Not only the wealth but the independence an<
security of a country, appear to be materially con
ncCted with the prosperity of manufactures. Eve
ry nation, with a view to tnofe great objeCts
ought to endeavor to possess within itfelf all thi
efl'entials of national supply. These comprise thi
means of Jubfijience, habitation, cloathing, and de
fence.
The pofiefiion of these is necelTary to the perfec
tion of the body politic, to the fafety as well as t<
the welfare of the society ; the want of either, i
the want of an important organ of political life an<
motion ; and in the various crises which await ;
state, it must severely feel the effeCts of any fuel
deficiency. The extreme embarrassments of th<
United States during the late war, from an inca
pacity of supplying themselves, are Hill matter o
keen recoll'Ction : a future war might beexpeCte<
again to exemplify the mifchiefs and dangers of;
situation, to which that incapacity is still in to<
great a degree applicable, unless changed by time
-ly and vigorous exertions. To effeCt this change
a3 fait as (hall be prudent, merits all the attentioi
and all the zeal of our public councils j 'tis th
next great work to be accompliflied.
The want of a navy to proteCt our external com
merce, as long as it ihall continue, must render i
a peculiarly precarious reliance, for the supply o
cflential articles, and must serve to strengthen pro
digioufly the arguments in favor of manufaCtuies
To these general considerations are added fom>
of a more particular nature.
Our distance from Europe, the great fountaii
of manufactured supply, subjeCts us in the exist
ing state of things, to inconvenience and loss in twi
ways.
The bulkinefs of those commodities which ar
the chief productions of the foil, necefiarily im
poses very heavy charges on their transportation
to distant markets. These charges, in the cases
in which the nations, to whom our produCts an
sent, maintain a competition in the supply ef thei
own markets, principally fall upon us, and forn
material deductions from the primitive value o
the articles furniflied. The charges on manufac
tured supplies, brought from Europe are great);
enhanced by the fame circumstance of distance
These charges, again, in the cases in which ou
cwn|induftry maintains no competition, in our owi
markets, also principally fall upon us j and are aj
additional cause of extraordinary deduction fron
the primitive value of our own produCts j these be
ing the materials of exchange for the foreign fa
brics, which we conl'ume.
The equality and moderation of individual pro
perty, and the growing settlements of new dif
triCfcs, occasion, in this country an unusual de
mand for coarse manufactures j the charges o
which being greater in proportion to their greatei
bulk, augment the disadvantage, which has beer
just defcrit. 1.
As in most countries dom°4ic supplies maintaii
a very considerable compet- on with such foreigr
productions of the foil, as *re imported for sale
if the extensive eftabli/hment of manufactories ir
the United States does not create a similar compe
tition in respeCt to manufactured articles, it ap
pears to be clearly deducible, from the confidera
tions which have been mentioned, that they muf
sustain a double loss in their exchanges with so
reign nations 5 strongly conducive to an unfavora
ble balance of trade, and very prejudicial to thei;
interests.
These disadvantages press with no fmalf weight,
on the landed interest of the country. In feafoni
of peace, they cause a serious deduction from.tlx
intrinsic value of the produCts of the foil. In tlx
time of a war, which ihould either involve our
selves, or another nation, pofTefitng a considerable
ill are of our csfrrting trade, the charges on the
transportation of our commodities, bulky as moll
of them are, could hardly fail to prove a grievous
•burthen to the farmer j while obliged to depend
in so degree as he now does, upon foroigr
markets' for the vsnt of the surplus of his labor.
As far as the prosperity of the frfreries of the
United States is impeded by the want of an ade
quate market, there arises another special real on
sol cicfiring the extension of manuh>Ctures. !>e
fides the filh, which in many places, would be
likely to make a part of the subsistence of the per
sons employed 5 it is known that the oils, bonr:
and /kins of marine animals, arc of extensive uf<
in various manufacture*. Hence the ptofpeCt ol
an additional demand for the produce of the fish
eries.
One more point of view only remains, in which
to consider the expediency of encouraging manu
factures in the United States.
Jt is not uncommon to meet with an opinion,
that though the promoting of manufactures, may
be the inter eft of a part of the ifoion, it is contra
ry to that of another part. The northern and
foothern regions are sometimes represented as ha
ving adverse interest? in this refpeCt. Those are
called manufaCtui ing, these agricultural dates,
and a species of oppoirtion is imagined to fubfin
between the manufacturing and agricultural in
terejls.
This idea of an opposition between those two in
tereft® is the common error of the early periods 0/
every country, but experience gradually difiipates
it. Indeed they are perceived so often to luccour
and to befriend each other, that they come at
length to be conli-dered as one ; a supposition
which has been frequently abused, and is nor uni
versally true. Particular encouragements of par
ticular manufactures may be of a nature to facri
fice the interests of landholders to those of minu
faCturers j but it is nevertheless a maxim well
eftabli/hed by experience, and generally acknow
ledged, where there has been futficient experi- ice,
that the aggr'gatc prosperity of manufacture? and
the aggregate prosperity of agriculture are Ulti
mately connected. In the course of the difc< fion
which has had place, various weighty cons ora
tions have been adduced operating in fupp tol
that maxim. Perhaps the superior fteadin ol
the demand of a domestic maiket for the 1< >lu<
produce of the foil, is alone a convincing gu
ment of its truth.
Ideas of a contrariety of interests betwee the
northern and fo-uthern regions of the union are
in the main as unfounded as they are miichie ? jui.
The circumstances, on which such con
trariety is ul'ually predicated, authorises a direCtl)
contrary conclulion. Mutual wantsconfticute one 01
the strongest links 'eft* political connection, and the
extent of these bears a natural proportion to th<
diversity in the means of mutual supply.
Suggestions of an opposite complexion are evei
to be deplored, as unfriendly to the steady purfuil
of one great common cause, and to the perfeCt har
mony of ail the parts.
In proportion as the mind is accustomed tc
trace the intimate connexion of interest, which
fublifts between all the parts of a society, united
under the fame government ; the infinite variety
of channels which serve to circulate the profpeiky
of each to and through the reft, in that propor
tion will it be little apt to be disturbed by folici
tuues and apprehensions which originate in Joca!
discriminations. It is a truth as important, ai ii
is agreeable, and one to which it is not easy to
imagine exceptions, that every thing tending tc
eftabli.'h Jubfiarrial and fetmanent ord.it•, jr. *
fairs of a country, to encreafe t|ie total mals of in
dustry and opulence, is ultimately beneficial t*
every part of it. On the credit of this greai
truth, an acquiescence may lately be accorded
from every quarter, to all institutions, and ar
rangements, which proniife a confirmation ol
public order, and an augmentation of national re.
source.
But there are more particular confederation!
which fervfe to fortify the idea, that the encourage
ment of manufactures is the interest of all parts 0!
the union. If the northern and middle state:
ihould be the principal scenes of such eftabliih
ments, they would immediately benefit the mori
southern, by creating a demand for productions
some of which they have in common with tin
other states, and others of which either are peculiai
to them, or more abundant, or of better qoality
than elsewhere. These productions, principal!}
are timber, flax, hemp, cotton, wool, raw silk, in
digo, iron, lead, furs, hides, /kins and coals 9 o
these articles cotton and indigo are peculiar 4o the
southern states $ as are hitherto lead and coak, flax
and hemp are or may be raised in greater |bun
dance there, than in the more northern flftes 1
and the wool of Virginia is said to be of sjetiei
quality than that of any other state j a cirirum
ftance rendered the more probable by the refl|.3io"
that Virginia embraces the fame latitudes wijh the
fineft wool countries of Europe. The climite 01
the south is also better adapted to the prodtKtior
of silk.
The extensive cultivation of cotton can perhap*
hardly be expe&ed, but from the previous efta
bli/hment of domestic manufactories of the article :
and the surest encouragement and vent, fcr thf
Dthers, would result from similar eftabli/hments in
■efpeCt to them.
If, then, it fatisfaftorily appears, that it is the
interest of the United States, generally, to encou
rage manufactures, it merits particular attention,
that theie are circumstances which render the pre
sent a critical moment for entering with zeai up
[>n the important bufineCs. The effort cannot fail
to be materially feconAed by a considerable and
increasing influx of money, in consequence cf fo
reign (peculations in the funds—and by the disor
ders which exist in different parts of Europe.
The firft circumftanCe' not only facilitates the
execution of manufa&ui ing enterprises : but •.in
dicates them as a neceflary mean to turn the 'h'.ng
itfelf to advantage, and to prevent its being even
tually an evil. If ul'eful employment be not found
for the money of foreigners brought to the coun
try to be inverted in purchases of the public debt,
it will quickly be re-exported to defray the ex ■
pence of an extraordinary consumption of foreign
luxuries j and diftrefling drains of our specie may
hereafter be experienced to pay the interest and
redeem the principal of the purchased debt.
This ufeful employment too ought to be of a
nature to produce solid and permanent improve
ments. If the money merely serves to give a tem
porary spring to foreign commerce 5 as it cannot
procure new and " : ng outlets for the products of
the country ; there will be. no ical or durable ad
vantage ga'r.ed. As far as it fliall fiad its wav in
agricultural ameliorations, in opening canals, and
in fimiiar improvements, it will be productive of
fubftaniial utili y. But there is reason to boubt,
whether in such channels it is likely to find fuffici
ent employment, and (tiil more whether many ofj
thole who pofi'efs it, would be as readily attracted
to obiects of this nature, as to manufaCturing pur
suits j which bear greater analogy to th >fe to
tWiich they are aCCustomed, and to the i\ i 1: gen
erated by them.
To open the one field, as well as the other, vl
at least secure a better prospeCt of ufeful employ
ment, for whatever accession of money there
been or may be.
There is at the present juncture a certain fer
mentation of mind, a certain activity of foecula
cion and enterprise, which if properly directed
may be made subservient to ufeful purposes j but
which if left entirely to itfelf, may be attendee
with pernicious effects.
The disturbed state of Europe, inclining its citi
zens to emigration, the requisite workmen will be
more easily acquired, than at anorher time j ano
the effect of multiplying the opportunities of em
ployment to those who emigrate, may be an en
:reafe of the number and extent of valuable ac
quisitions to'the population, arts and induttry oi
the country*
Tdfind pleasure in the calamities of other nati
ons would be criminal j but to benefit ourfrlves,
L>y opening an asylum to t-hofc who fufFer, in con
lequence of them, is as justifiable as it is po
litic.
A full view having now been taken of the in
ducements to the promotion of manufactures in
the United States, accompanied with an examina
tion of the principal objections which are com
monly urged in oppojition, it is proper in the next
place to confide* the means by which it may be
effected, as introductory to a fpecifieation of the
objeCts which in the present ft2te of things appear
the moll fit to be encouraged, and of the particu
lar measures which it may be advifeable to adopt,
ki respeCt to each.
Jn order to a better judgment of the means
proper to be resorted to by the United States, it
will be of use to advert to thole which have been
employed with success in other countries. The
principal of these are—
I. Prote&tr.g duties—or duties on tbofe foreign
articles vub'uh a*e the rival: of the domejlic ones in
tended to be cnccuraged.
Duties of this nature evidently amount to a vir
tual bounty on the domestic fabrics, since by en
hancing the charges on foreign articles, they ena
ble the national manufacturers to under fell all
their foreign competitors. T.hc propriety of tnis
fpeciesof encouragement need not be dwelt upon j
as it is not only a clear result from the numerous
topics which have been fugpefted, but is fanCti
oned by the laws of the Unifd States, in a variety
of instances J it has the additional recommendati
on of being a refour.ee of revenue—lndeed all the
duties imposed on imported articles, though with
an exclusive view to revenue, have the efFeCl in
contemplation, and except where they fall on raw
materials wear a beneficent afpeCl towards the
manufactures cf the country.
11. Prohibitions of rival articles, or duties equi
valent to prohibition
This is another and sn efficacious means of en
couraging national manufactures, but in general
it is only fit to be employed when a manufacture
has made such a progress, and is in so many hands
as to ensure a due competition, and an adequate
supply on reasonable terms —Of duties equivalent
tcrprohibitions, there are examples in the laws of
the United States, and there are other cases to
which the principle may be advantageouily extend
ed, but they are not numerous.
Considering a monopoly of the domestic market
to its own manufacturers as the reigning policy of
manufacturing nations, a fimiiar policy on the
part of the United States in every proper instance,
is dictated, it almost be fa id, by the princi
ples of diftri'outive justice } certainly by the duty
of endeavoring to secure to their own citizens a re
ciprocity of advantages.
111. Prohibitions of the exportation of the mate
rials of manufactures*
The desire of securing a cheap and plentiful
supply for the national workmen, and, where the
article is either peculiar to the country, or of pecu
liar quality there, the jealousy of enabling foreign
workmen to rival those of the nation, wirh its own
materials, are the leading motives to this fpecres
of regulation. It ought not to be affirmed, that
it is in no instance proper; but it is certainly one
which ought to be adopted with great circumipcc
tion, and only in very plain cafe*. It is seen at
once, that i immediate operation, is to abridge
the demand and keep down the price of the pro
duce of some other branch of induftrv. general!)
speaking, of agriculture, to the prejudice of those
who carry it on ; and though if it be really efTen
tial to the prosperity of any very important nation
al manufacture, it may happen that those who are
injured in the firft instance, may he eventually
indemnified, by the fu peri or steadiness of an ex
tensive domestic market oe-pending on that pros
perity : yet in a matter, in which there is so much
room for nice and difficult combinations, in which
such opposite confidrrations combat each other,
prudence seems to dictate, thzt the expedient in
tjueftion, ought to be indulged with a Iparing
hand.
IV. Pecuniary bounties*
This has been found one of the most efficacious
means of encouraging manufactures, and it is, in
some views, the best- Though it has not yet been
praCtised upon by the government of the United
States (unless the allowance on the exportation of
dried and pickled fifli and salted meat could be
confidcred as a bounty) and though it is less fa
vored by public opinion than some other modes—
Its advantages are these—
1. It is a species of encouragement more positive
and direCt than any ether, and for that very reason,
lias a more immediate tendency to ftimulat; and
uphold new enterprises, encreafing the chances of
jrofit, and diminishing the risks oflofs, in the firft
attempts.
2. It avoids the inconvenience of a temporary
augmentation of price, which I* Inc! r* fomfl
ather modes, or it produces it to a -*fs degree j
either by making no addition to the charges on
the rival foreign article, as in the cafe of protect
ing duties, or by making a fma-ller addition. The
ririt happens when the fund for rhe bonoty is de
rived from a different objeCV (which may or may
not encreafe the price of some other article, ac
cording to the nature of that object J the second,
when the fund is derived from the fame or a si mi -
lar object of foreign manufacture. One per cent,
duty on the foreign article converted into a boun
ty on the domestic, will have an equal efreCt with
a duty of two per cent, exciofive of such bounty ;
and the price of the foreign commodity is liable
to be railed, in the one cafe, in the proportion of
one per cent, in the other, in that of two per cent.
Indeed the bounty when drawn from another
source is calculated to promote a reduction of
price ; because without laying any new charge on
the foreign article, it serves to introduce a compe
tition with jr, and to encreafe the total quantity of
the article in the market.
3. Bounties have not like high protcCHng du
ties, a tendency to produce Icarcity. An encreafe
of price is not always the immediate, though,
where the progress of a domestic manufacture doe«
not counteract a ri-fe, it is commonly the ultimate
effcCt of an additional duty. In the interval, be
tween the laying of the duty and a proportional en
bltrafe of price, it may discourage importation, by
interfering with the profits to be expeCted from the
sale of the article.
4. Bounties are sometimes not only the best,
but the only proper expedient, for uniting the en
couragement of a new objeCt of agriculture, with
that of a new objeCt, of manufacture. It is the in
terest of the farmer to have the production of the
raw material promoted, by counteracting the in
terference of the foreign material of the fame
kind—lt is the interest of the manufacturer to
have the material abundant and cheap. If prior
to the domestic production of the material, in fuf
ficient quantity, to supply the manufacturer on
good terms, a duty be laid upon the importation
of it from abroad, with a view to promote the rai
sing of it at home, the interest both of the farmer
and manufacturer will be dii-erved—By either de
stroying the requisite supply, or railing the price
of the article, beyond what can be afforded to be
given fpr it, by the conductor of an infant manu
facture, it is abandoned or fails, and there being
no domestic manufactories to create a demand for
the raw material, which is raised by the farmer,
it is in vain, that the competition of the like fo
reign article, may have been destroyed.
It cannot elcape notice, that a duty upon tie
importation of an article can no otherwise aid the
domestic production of it, than by giving the lat
ter greater advantages in the home market. It
can have no influence upon the advantageous sale
of the article produced, in foreign markets ;no
tendency, therefore, to promote its» exportation.
The true way to conciliate these two intcrefts,
is to lay a duty on foreign manufactures of the
material, the growth of which is defiied to be en
couraged, and to apply the produce of that duty
by way of bounty, either upon the production of
the material itfelf, or upon its manufacture at
home,or upon both. In this disposition of the
thing, the manufacturer commences his enterprise,
under every advantage, which is attainable, as to
quantity or price of the raw material : And the
farmer, if the bounty be immediately to him, is
enabled by it to enter into a fuccefsful competition
with the foreign material ; If the bounty be to the
manufacturer on so mucn of the domestic materi
al as he consumes, the operation is nearly the fame;
he has E motive of interest to prefer the domestic
commodity, if of equal quality, even at a higher
price than the foreign, so long as the difference of
price is any thing short of the bounty, which is al
lowed upon the article.
Except the fi'mple and ordinary kinds of
houfliold manufacture, or those for which there
are very commanding local advantages,pecuniary
bounties are in most cases indifpenfible to the
introduflicm of a new branch. A flimulus
and a support not less powerful and direel is,
generally Ipeaking, eflential 10 the overcoming
of the obstacles which arise from the competi
tions of superior (kill and maturity elsewhere.
Bounties are especially cflential, in regard to ar
ticles, upon which those foreigners who have
been accustomed to supply a country are in the
practice of granting them.
[To be continued.)
This day is Published
By CHILDS and SWAINE,
In one Volune Octavo ;
[Price Ore Dollar and a half, the ImalJ Edition,
and One Dolleir and three quarters the large, J
THE
LAWS of the United States.
Collated with, and correOed by the original Rolls
in the Office of the Secretary of State.
With a copious INDEX ; or
A complete DIGEST of the LAWS ;
(Making 56 pages :)
Executed by an eminent Law Cbarafter.
To obtain this ufeful and necessary Part of the
Work complete, has retarded the Pub';cation.
Ibis Volume ccmpriz.es the ABs of the Three *
Sefpons of the firfi CongrtJ's 5 alj'o, the Federal
Covjiitution, and the Treaties between the United
States and Foreign Nations--Together ivith an Ap
pendix, containing the Declaration of Independ
ence) and sundry Ordinances and Resolves of Con
grejs under the Confederation.
Sold by Childs and Stvaine, No. 239, High
flreetf Thomas Dobfon, Jojeph Crukfiank, and
Robert Campbell, Philadelphia*
October 25.
PRINTED BY
CKILDS AND SWAINE,
AT THZJR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIGH-STKEIT>
JC IA R SIXTH-STREET,
PHI LADELPHIA.