[Numb. 8 of Vol. ll.]
From the American Daily Advertijer.
TN my la" I urged it as a fnfFicien;
JL reason why the public fuffrage (hould
be withheld from Mr. Adams, at the en
suing election for the office of Vice Pre
lident, that he was the known and avow
ed friend to a government of king, lords &
commons and had, since the adoption ol
the present one, endeavoured by his
writings to inculcate this pernicious doc
trine upon the ainds of his countrymen,
thereby impairing the foundation on which
it tells. And altho' I cannot suppose
that any person acquainted with his wri
tings, will undertake to -indicate him a
gainst this high chatge, yet it neither
iuits the importance r.or the propriety ol
the enquiry, that any doubt on the fab
jeft should, at the present moment, arrest
the public mind, His defence of the
American constitution's, and discourses
upon Davila, the documents referred to,
tho* forfome time pail in print, may not
have been generally perused. To place,
therefore, the merits of t; is charge upon
their true ground, I shall now fnrnifri
irom those publications, such brief ex
trails, as will, I presume, fufficier.tly dc
monftrate it 3 truth.
In Vol. i, —page 3, of the preface we
find the following palTage : " Without
three orders, and an effectual balance be
tween them, in every American conllitu
fion, it fflift be destined to frequent tin i-
Voidable revolutions ; if thiyaie dtlayea
a few year;, they mujl ccrne in time.—
The United States are large and popu
lous in compnrifou of the Greci
an commonwealths, or even the Swif
Centons; and sre growing evefy day
more disproportionate, and therefore lef;
capable of being held together by limt.lv:
governments Countries that encreafe in
population so rapidly as the itates o!
America did, even during such an impc
venll.ing and deftrudlive war as the lad
was, are not to be bound together by
silken threads ; lion?, young or old, will
not be bound by cobwebs. It would b;
letter for America, it is nevertheless
agre d, to ring all the changes with tlit
whole set of bells, and go through ail the
revolutions of the Grecian states rather
than eftab'ifh an absolute mmarth
among them, no- withstanding all the great
and real improvements made in that kind
of government."
Again, page. 22. "If Cicero anc
Taciuscould revisit the earth, and learr
that the Englifli nation had reduced th;
great idea to practice, and brought ii
nearly to pe feftion, by giving each divisi
on a power to defend itfelf by a negative:
they had found it the rr.oitfoh'd ft duiablt
government, as -well as the mojl free."
Again, page 25. "What is the ingre
dient which in England has prefevved tf:t
democratical authority ? The balance
and that only"
In page 1 16. " The sources of inequa
lity, which are common to every people,
and can never be altered by any, becaufs
they are founded in the conllitution of na
ture : this natural aristocracy among man
kind has been dilated on, becaute it i:
a fa& efiential to be conlidered ifr the in
ftitution of a government. It is a bod>
of men which contains the greatest collec
tion of virtues and abilities in a free go
vernment : is the bti ( ;htell ornament and
glory of the nation ; and may always bt
made the greatest blessing of society, ii
it be judiciously managed in the conlli
tution."
And in the next page, " There is bui
one expedient yet discovered to avail tb<
society of all the benefits from this bod}
of men, which they are capable of afford
ing, and at the fame time to prevent them
from undermining or invading the pub
| lie liberty, and that is to throw them ali
• r at leUt the mod remarkable of them,
into one assembly together in the legil
lature ; to keep all the executive power
entirely out of their hands as a tody ;
By 1 . FR E N EA U : Publijhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
C 5 ATUR DA Y, November 24, 1792.
tocrc?te a firft magillrate overthem,inveft
fdv.'ith the whole executive authority; tc
maxe their, them dependent on that
executive magistrate for all pui,!:c execu
tive employments ; to give that firft ma
;; ir-'c a negative on the legislature, by
v. Inch he may defend himfelf & the ptoph
from all their enter Drives in tli -i legisla
ture; and to crcft on the other fide ol
them an impregnable barrier agairft them
in a house oj commons, fairly, fully, and
adequately representing the people, who
ihali have the power of negativing all th<,ii
attempts ;,t encroachments in the leg; (1 a -
cure, and of withholding both from them
and the crown, a!! supplies by which they
miy be paid for their fervicts in execu -
tive offices, or even the public service
.-arried on to the detriment of the nation.'
Page 224. ''From this example (I'pe::lt
rig of the Roman empire) as from ail o
:hers, it appears that there can he no
government oj tail's without a l.zlance ;
:nd that there can be no balance without
hrse orders, and that even three orders
:::.i never balance each: oi her; unless each
•' department, is htdepcndint arid ab
■uluU."
Vol, 3 ,_-pnge 296. The Americana
iave agreed with this writer in the fenti
l.ent, '• that it is but rcafon that the
)'".>p!e should fee that none be intere'.ted,
■ ' the supreme authority, but perfens of
.neir own e'efti.-n, and such as must, in
1 (liort time, return again into the fame
condition with themfelvcs." This ha
tarda::s experiment they have tried ; and
i elections arc soberly made, it may an
wervery well; but if parties, factions.
:lrunke:>nefs,bribes, armies and delirium,
:ome in, as they always have done (oouer
)r later, to embroil and decide every th'iiW.
:he people multagain have reconrfe to con
venconsy &!ind a remedy. Neither philo
fophv nor policy has jet discovered any
cure, than by pretending the duration
' J l ''/ 1 »'"gjft r 'te and fixators.
Ihe ev.l may be lessened &poiiponedby
sled tons for longer periods of years, till
they become Jor life ; and if this is not
found an adequate remedy, there will re
main no other but to make them heredi
'dry. The delicacy or the dread of un
popularity, that should induce any man tc
conceal this important truth, from the
lull view and contemplation of the peo
pie, would be a weaknefe, if not a vice.
As to reaping the fame benefit or bur
then, by the laws enadted, that befalls the
reft of the people," this will b£ i'ecured,
whet! er the firil magillrate and fen ate b;
;!edive or hereditary, as long as the peo
ple are an integral part of the legislature :
-an be bound by no laws to which the\
have not conlented ; and can be fubje&ed
to no tax which they have not agreed tc
lay."
Page 367, The people are the foun
tain and original of the power of Icings
ind lords, governors and senates, as well
js the house of commons, or assembly ol
representatives; and if the people are
fufficiently enlightened to fee all the dan-
Ten that ftirround them, they will alwpya
be represented by a diftind personage
to manage the whole executive power ;
a dillind senate to be guardians erf proper
tv, against levillers for the purpose oi
plunder, to be a repository of the nation
si tradition of public maxims, culloms,
and manners ; and to be controllers in
turn, both of Hug: and their minillers on
one fide, and reprefevlatives of tht
people on the other ; when either disco
ver a difpofiti.on to do wrong : and a dif
tinft house of reprelentatives, to be the
guardians of the public fwrfe, and tc
prated the, people in their turn, againlt
loth 'kings fc? nobles A science certain
ly comprehends all the principles in
nature which belong to the fuhjed. The
principles in nature which relate to go
vernment, cannot all he known, without
a knowledge of the history of mankind.
Ihe EngHJh conftituSon is the on!
one iVhich has considered and prov; '.;
for all cases, that are known to have ge
aera!! y, indeed to have always, happened,
in the progress of every nation ; it is
therefore the only fcientifical voi'eriimcnt.
June 2 i 7 9 0 : -
i>o. eight, on the discourses on Davi
la. « There is a voice within us, whicl
seems to intimate, that real merit fhoulc
govern the world ; and that men ought
to be relpe&ed only in proportion to thei:
talents, virtues and services, hut the quel
lortclways has been, how can this ar
rangement be accomp'ifhed ? how fhali
:he men' of merit be discovered ? how
fail the proportions of merit be afcer
:r.ined and graduated ? who (hall be the
udgc 5 when the government cf a great
lation is in question, (hail the whole nat:-
>a ch ;ofe ? (hall tlie whoJe nation vote
or senators ? thirty millions of votes,
or example, to each fenatar in France:
't is obvious that this would be a lottery
>f miilroris of blanks to one prize, and
hat the chanee of having wil'dom and
ntegrity in a fenato'r by hereditary de
cent, would be far better* tic*
July 7, 1790, No 12.
Speaking of rivalries of different kinds
n foei-jty, and especially in America, he
idds " -.vhat is the natural remedy againll
he inconveniences and dangers of theft
ivalvies ? whether a well balanced confti
ution, such as that our purports tc
ought not to be coidially ft'ipporied
ill its deft els, it it has any, cart be cor
edted, by every good citiVen, as our or.-
y hope of peace and ark of fafety : but
t ir.ul. tie ie:t to the contemplations r.t
>ur -late physicians to' discover the catttes
md the remedy cf that " fever whereof
Hi- power is lick," One question only
hail be refpedtfully insinuated : whether
qual laws* the rcfult only of a balanced
'ovcrnment, can ever be obtained and
preserved without some ftgns or ctner
it diflinßion and degree ?
July 2!, 1796,
Americans.' rejoice, that from experi
:nce, you have learned wisdom : and in
'.ead of whimlical and fantailical projed
'ou have adopted a promijing ejfay to.
yards a Well ordered government, inffead
)t following any foreign examples to re
urn to the legislation of confufion, con
template the means of refloring decency.
lOneftyand order in society by prtfe rvino
md contemplating, if any thing should
' und necessary to complete, the balatit,
31 your government.
November 30, 1790. No. 23.
"We fee in this inuance* that the tre
ble balance is so efiablifned by providenct
:n the cr nftitution of nature, that crdei
without it, can never be brought out ol
anarchy and confufion. The laws there
fore should efta'clifh this equilibrum a;
the dictate ol nature, arid the oidinane:
sf providence. "
By the foregoing passages, ar.d man;,
others which are omitted for the fake ol
brevity ; indeed by the just and found
;oi'ftru<ftioii of both performances, 'tit
nbviouHy the doctrine of this gentleman.
that a government of king, lords, arid com
mons, isthat only, under which mankind
can enjoy, with certainty or duration,any
degree of freedom & happineis. That even
the experiment of a morepopular one,orone
depending elTentially, on the fuffrage o!
the people, however, wife the modifica
tion or dillribution cf its powers, is ha
zardous, ai d that the focner we become
convinced of its folly, and adopt the great
itandard which headmiies, the sooner we
(hall attain to perfeft'on.' The people ap
pear throughout, t<) be the sole objeil ol
his terror; from them, unless excluded
(rom all irflucr.ce upon the executive,
and retrained to one third portion of tlx
legiflatttre only, balanced in the other two.
by an independent and hereditary king
and order of nobility, he seems to appre-
[Total No. 11 2.}
fiend all those calamities, which an uncur
bed liCentioufnefj can infl & upon foeietv.
i ne moll turbulent ages oT the world, the
moll calamitous teras of antient and mo
dern nations, have been resorted to, for
documents to color the odious picture,'
and to demonstrate that mankind cannot
govern themselves. But to the outrageous'
abuse of power, in the hands of a few, he
thews' the mod benevolent indulgence,'
and whilst the dread of popular authority
hlunts his mincf he labours foV language',
to express his horror of it, he (peak's of
tlie highe-- orders of government, of
a .cmg and nobility, in terms of reverence
and veneration, fcaiceJy ever used bv anv
other writer.
, Th "" e » however one other trait in tIW
cnaiacter of these tradts which merits at
tention. Mr. Adams has hereto/ore been
represented as exemplary for his candour,
and the frank exposition of his podiicaf
fcntiments upon all occafior.s; Freelv as
1 have censured his do&rines, as pernici
ous to his country, and highly reprehen.
hble fbra per.'on in his station", it w. uld
give me pleasure ff I could subscribe to
this opinion cf his Candour. But altho".
lam psrfuaded, an irnpai tia'l crfticifia of
his woi-i will lead every other pevfcn to
the Concision I hare formed, yet it is a
fad which mud strike the mind 6f the
molt inattentive observer, that n rfiany
passages, he has appeared so fh'rinfc from'
che ground he had fairiy taken, and even'
to contradidt what he had air ady said.
Av.\ re of the pr-c pice on which he
dood, he trembled at the proipedt T .vhich*
menaced before him !*
Jn tny Lift I dated it as a pronofuioK
•vhicli could not be Contested,- tor it could
je easily denv. Crated, that the only dan
gers to which we were exposed in the
operation of the government were those
ivhich threatened the exiftertee of the re
publ can fydem itfelf. If this idea i 4
well founded J if it is even probable,'fhould
iot the goocf people of these Gates guard
themselves against it by every poliible and
wi e precaution ? should they not in any
event, exclude from their councils;, those?
who entertain sentiments to radically ho
(tile to their government, and to those
principles of equality opori which it lV
founded ?
LUCIUS.
* The English reviewers sum up the'
true character of his defence of the Ame
rican conititutions in the words follov>,\g?
" the great and leading idea which run?
through the ingenious arid learned work
cf Mr. Adams is, that a mixture of the
three powers, the regsly the cirjftocratual
and the dernocratlcal, properly balanced,
composes the mod perfect form of go
vernment and secures the greated degree
of happiness to the greatelt number bf V in«
diifiduals-"
[From the Neiv-Tnrk Diary of Idjl JVect'
nefJay.~\
THti mannfaftory now at
the Falls of PaiTairk has of late becofifie
more the object of conversation than for
a considerable time pad. The opinions
of people, as tct the probability of its
Succeeding,' are extremely discordant
Some do not heCtate to pronounce it si
visionary projedt, engendered in the per
verted brains of calculating fpcctilatorsj
and cf a piece with all their Other abor«
tiv? schemes, Others are more san
guine, and afi'ert, that to narrow minded
Iceptics a'one it can appear doubtful, E3
to the iflue. The former class oftheorifts
ground their opinion, on pa't experience,,
and the present-unpromising afpedt cf its
affairs. They fay, this maflufadtory ori
ginated in a hope of extending the sphere
of Ipecu ation. '1 hot those who appeared
its ftrcrgeft advocates, whatever their
arrowed intentions nssyhave been, meant
nothing mors than to pgffefs thertrifeHalof a great number of snares, raifc t-t-m to
ail extravagant price, f.-il, out, and altei
realizing a handsome fortune, caic v_i ;
little if the whole system went to the te
vil—T-hey advance a variety of realona a
to the Improbability ol ultimately effecting
the oltenhble object, if even us patron
were Sincere ; and some, not delpicabk
for want of sagacity, feenl to be fenouii)
impressed with an idea that our worthy 1111-
j.itier at the head g.* the finances advocatcu
this plan, in hopes that by it*. eventual
, itabiiannent he might, with more plain.-
bilitv, propose a:i augmentation 01 fete
• rtr , .Vnt'ttifj:u:!.ing "ate-* ot iinpoit, unoc-i
tae colorable pretext of encouraging do
mestic manufactures. _ It any one objects
that inlinuations o this nature are unwar
ranted and discountenanced by the wnole
ten..;- of the Secretary \ conduct, tneyre
fer him to the elaborate report on the lub
jeft of •nmura-turei, predated to v ongrd>
at the lali leSßon, the greater part ot v. tnui
isexpresfly andavowedly-directed to o.»vi
ate ob,ections to anyfcheines ot this naturt
on the ground of prematurity. A politi
cal infidel of this tuft .vill triu.nph.int.y
enqu.re, h>w i:id> pr.bh- opinion : -n
what price i". the m t.iu ; l-tniiug fenp at
mar :et ? This can be die only lure baro
metrical criterion by which to afcertam
the fluctuations of popular confidence o.
i'ufpiuon. They will tell you that mares,
the original d epofit oa which v, as twenty
five d jliars, had once risen to up v. ards > 1
fifty, but are now funk to eight or ten mil
ling, that this deprcffioii'tnuft be owing
to n opiii on by no means favourable
:h it the g nerality of p. ople, who antiei
pate the future from experience ot the pan.
although deliroiu of commercial indepen
dence, eon: eive we are not yet ripe to:
ob e its offuch magnitude ; — that this city
Philadelphia and Baltimore, havefeen \e
ry aromiiinjj experiments ialiilr, in ikc.;
a >rtion ; —and although the Secretary
b. 11 effort of ingenious fopliiltry, lias en
d. /oared to d: inouftrate the reverie, th<
pi -of labour i t'n's country is such, am
th npollibinty of engaging and retainin.
an adequate number of experienced am
faithful artisans, is so evident that to be
lieve the contrary argues either an lmpli
cit credulity, or a bli jd unreasonable ac
quie cence in the proposals of ( fanatica
theories Fro a a cO.mprehenfive furve;
of the whole matter, it is inferred, tha
however p itaaotic theo.ienlible and vinbi<
. parts ofthis plan may appear, it is a true!
but too lamentably pr ibable, that tn
great, the ultimate end, in originating in,;!
patronizing it, as far as o.iicial and finan
cial co-operation extends, was to faciiitatt
■additional impclitions upon our foreig
commerce Thi opinion, whether wel
or ill founded, has no very happy tendency
in atta.hingth : a,reel-ions ot our citizen
to the government. Those who with fuc
cels to federal raeafiires, imagine they per
ceived a deep for ,'cg o danger in the impo
litic extension of our impolt laws. Thej
apprehend that by grasping at all, we thai
risque the loss of all and indeed, con
lidering the extreme delicacy of a repub
lican government, —grounded on the llip
pe -y balls of opinio*, our rulers ould be
peculiarly cauc.ous to prevent, by avoiding
opprcliio n. the ruin o 1 our hope., ot poli
tical happiness. These are lome of the
fentimenl which pervade a considerable
class of the community ; —whether well
or iil founded, they are it lea'i lpeciou
and will be either refuted or Jancdonec
by the event. • D
FOREIGN ADVICES
London, Sept. 21 ■ The only port in Chi -
na, to which the India company's ships are
permitted to trade, is Canton,in nearly tilt
souther imoft part of China. It is wel
known that tee tea. their great article ci
commerce, grows chiefly in the northern
and mountainous parts of that vast em
pire : so that the India company, beside;
tile adulterations the tea may fufer on the
way, are fnbjcct to the advanced price
which mull naturally arise from carrying
an article some thousand miles, from that
part of the country Where it grows, tc
Canton, where it is (hipped for England.
And, added to this, our woolen Iti inn pic
tures, which are in high repute, and chiefly
adapted for the northern parts of Cluna,
by being obliged to be landed at Canton,
are fubjecied to the damage and expence
of an aftonithing length of inland carriage,
so as almost on' many articles, to amount
to a prohibition. The intent of Lord Ma
cartney's emb iffy is, it pollible, to obtain
permiliion from the 1 niperor for our {hips
to trade directly to some port in the north
ern parts of the empire, where the tea can
be had on the spot where it grows, and
where our woolen would
find a ready market from m llions of peo
ple,
Lord Macartney is further dire£ted, if
pollible, to obt iiii leave to mike a settle
ment on a fninll iflanii on the Co alt, where
we may eftabl :■» a factory for the con pa
ily's agents, without their laboring under
the extreme inconveniences they are at
present fubjett to at Canton.
It is supposed. however, that the Chinese
will iiardlv grant the latter part of this re
nueft. The firft and great obje£t it i$ lik^-
iy they may, ar. felf-i;itcTcft invites them
to ;t.
His lor.d'''ip amongst other preftnts, car
rier f i,ght accompanied by Un
oir'cei anil io artilleriUs to work them
rhere is l.kewife a a o.iicer and 20infaatr»
.'olaiers, with ten dilinoupted light-horu
ien ; the wholetq be commanded by ma
;or Beaton, and to form a guard for lord
Macartney.
11 is supposed it will be two years and a
half before he returns.
Or. Priealy has declined tit-ting in the
French rational convention, though he ha
been c'vifcn for three places
Antwerp bept 14. The people in theft,
provinces are in general far from viewin;:
v. .ill fatisfa£tion the progrefsoi the Auitri
an arms in the French dominions A:
Br\:ges. in particular, cli;b are held, where
the nobility and their adherents are o'pe.il)
turned into deriiion. and betts o'v.'-. c tna!
the enemv will not arrive at Paris in tun
months!
, iQLksof disconsolate French pi'iefts fly
ing tney" know not, where, from the dag
-1 fs of their irritated countrymen, arei.ai
'v pouring. by every avenue into the ui-
Itrian provinces, which are already e'er
run.with their brethren. The abbeys aiu
monalieries on the road afford them a i cm
jorary refuge, while the general render.-
i'ous is appointed at Brui'iels, v. nere is -7
will be acquainted with their further cki
.inatioa.
The French refugees at Brutish cav.fec
1 solemn mass to be celebrated a Jew day:
igo, with a rcqni'.-iii for 'the fouls of tnt-u
.ountrvmen, aflallin 'ted at Par.s on t.it
night of the third of September.
For the National G zette.
PRO and CON.
Arguments against the re c!e&iori of
Adams.
FIRST. The federal constitution anr
the fpirir of the people are rep;tl!i>an
Mi. Adams is for a government of King
Lords, and C'.mmcr.s
Second Since the conditution was a
Jopteri—Since hia e e<ft!on and oath t:
lupport it, h-3 writings ha e laborioufl;
endeavoured 'o difa'ill Ins co;iitt: 11 e:;t:
with republican governments, and pre; •
their minds f. a government of King.
Lords, and Commons
Third. In his hi eft writings h; hr.i
declare 1 the federal coti/litution io be but «
brottafwg ejf.y t >war"s a wei l r.':Et
c ovbrnmeWt, by which, the whoie lcop:
<>f Kis wri'.i.i ;s, ti ce lie vifiled the co rti
of Europe, (hew means a <;cvern
ment of King, L-jfds, and ommons.
These obji.'ftions, mor particularly a'
the prcfent jundire, when Ihe 1 pirit o
monarchy is ei-cry where waging open 01
C'cret war on the spirit of freedom, mull
link deep in the mind of every true Ame
rican. That they are founded in truth u
well nown to all who hav.-.read the (eve
ral publications of Mr. Adams, on tin
fu jecf of government. ihe eyaotation
front these works in the excellent piece:
signed Lucius have demonftr ted from
Mr. Adams'l own mouth thai he is a de
cided advei fary to re üblican ' govern
ment ; «nd if'he cyi/litulivn is to be deem
;d the criterion of federaiifm, that he i:
mor of a real 'per antifedereiliil, thai
inv C tixen of 'he hinted States, out o!
the party a taclieu to the faifie mona clii
cal tenets.
Arguments for the re cleft.on of Mr.
Adaa-s.
First. The name of .Jams fas 1•e ■ n
"uhferibed long v. itli the name of Wcjit
ngicn, to the laws of the Union; a cir
:umftance of more real weight w th an c~-
ightened people, than any litile difference
act ween the ref-Mic*. -up inciples ot the
jne, and the monui chietu principles of the
Dther
Second If he is not re-elcfted it msy
be owing partly to votes in Virginia, who
having, the good fortune to furmlh the
citizen elected i y 1 11 the fta'c ; 1 >r Prcfi
d nt, ought to have ho voice in the e'ec
tion f a citizen of some other llatc for
Vice President
'Third If he is not re defied it may
!>e owing partly also to the votes of Noith-
Carolina aod South Carolina Now it
lias been very dearly as well as verv k:nd!y
(hewn by the lej} friends to t e fgnity ai d
magnanimity of those dates, that the.
ought te> vote again!! their own republi
can opinious, left they (h.« uld be fallely
and ifnpiidently taxed with conforming to
the opir.ici.3 of othef ft Sites.
F urth If he i; 1.6! it elected, it will
etray what every tr.an v'.ho con'iders the
federal constitution fts $ promifm s ejjay TO
WARDS a higher government, ought molt
carefully to Imothcr, namely, that the peo-
pie arc in their hearts attached to free re
publican government, and cannot le
rouiht by any art or management what
ever *to give a difeft or indirect counte
nance tcf the flaviih principle, of monar
chy and ariftociacy.
These arguments in favor of Mr. .' dams
re deduced, from f. veral late ftriftures in
ihe newspapers, and particularly from a
very curious publication tigned Map.cus
They will doubtless have all the influence
they merit on the fuffrages x huh are tc
decide (he cc'mp lition for theVifce-Prefi
ilencv of the L nited State .
Nov. 23, MUT.IUS.
CONGRESS.
IiCTJSE OF Ri:PRESENTATIVES.
Tuesday, Nov. 20.
A motion wy made by v ir■ Murray foi
appointing a i»ian.i£tt. to )>•'« par*-' a :'f
bring in o- bill fuppleinentury to the nnli
ri 1 lav.', :v.:. ..1 at the law feiiio.i—A«to
"ante debate this motion was loft. Mr
Murray then moved that a committe;
1;.-11.!.■ be appointed to report a bill loi
repealing so much ol the firil section or tin
militia law, as relates to arming the Djili
ti .i—Laid on the table.
The following resolution, in fubflance
tojjS made, on the report of the Secretary
of the Treasury on the pet tion oi . o
Hei:c! jrfou—K tfol ved, tnat there be al
lowed to Joflph Kenderfon the a.;au&
rum of for his services as nava.
p ,y. na Icr to the navy board, for the
ea.tern department, from Aug. j, ! ""8, tc
f-82. 1 his resolution, Widt the
Secretary' report, was referred to a com
mittee of the whole house to morrow.
After referring a petition, a memoria.
was read from Win. (lonllable and Co.
merchants, New- York, respecting a cargc
of teas imported from China, and sgair
exported to France, where they v. ere en
tered and landed ; but owing to the r.e
---•-L-ci of the captain and mate, in net re
tarnin;; their affidavits, the cclle-Hor at
New- 1 ork objected to refunding tie da
t: c - —refe 'red to the Secretary of the Trea
sury.
After reading two petitions, the. houfc
went into c, mmittee of the whole on th«
Frelident's speech—When the conlideratior
of the resolution fubjnitted to the haufs
ycitei day by Mr. Fitilim-ms, was renewed.
Further debate was had on striking out
the latter part. viz. " that the Secretary ol
the Treasury be direc.ed to report a pbs
for redeeming f'o much of the public debt,
as by l.uv the government has a right to re
deem." Oa the cjueftion jito agree to tlm
motion, it was negatived ,r to nj—Several
amendments were then proposed, but re
jected, and the resolution p opofed by Mr.
FiLi.inijii.s lirtaily carr; d -The paragraph
of the President's speech r dating to tac
loan of the bank iff the United States being
read, Mr. Dayton proposed the following
resolution—". That the Secretary of the
Freafury be directed to report a plan rot
re-imburiing the loan of the bam; or the
United States, agreeably to the nth lee
lion of the law for incorporating that com
pany."—Agreed to.
The houte having gone through with the
Preiidcnt's speech, the committee role and
reported the resolution they had come te
thereon, which were laid on the table for
further coriiideration. —Adjourned.
Wednesday, No-?. 21.
Mr. Murray renewed his motion ior the
appointment of a committee to prepare and
b.'Hig in a biil for a repeal of the firft fec
tio.i or that part of the militia law which
relates to arming the militia—This motion
o.:caU led some debate; after which the
qlieftion being put, it was decided in the
negative —yeas o—nayso—nays jo.
Two petitions were read and referred —
a third irom the dealers in oil paint in Phi
ladelphia, reflecting the duties on dry co
lours and those ground in oil, praying that
meafu. es may be adopted for encouraging
the manufacturing the latter, by an addi
tional duty 011 imported colours ground in
oil—Referred to the Secretary ol' the
Treasury.
Mr Boudinot renewed his motion for
establishing a complete fyliem of bankrupt
laws for the United States. This motion
was carried..and a committee appointed to
bring in a bill accordingly.
The several fefolutions reported yester
day by the committee on the Preiident's
speech were taken up—the firft, which re
lates to a prcrvifron for the widows of such
persons a-, were killed by the Indian l -; while
under* the protection of a Ha? of truce, was
t -reed to—as likewise the second, lor fap
porting an intercourse with foreign na
tions— the thii d relative to the reduction
of the public debt. c. cafioued some debate
on amotion to tfrike out that part which
contemplates a reference to the Secretary
of ;h> Treafury —»n calling the yea ar.-.!
nays on th(s question, there appeared 25
fur and U ngainft it. The queKiGn • ■
th'n put on the resolution, as reported, and
agreed to—The whole of the resolves b. -
i.-3 agreed tOj the house adjourned,
PHILADELPHIA.
November 24-
We are informed from good authority
(faj'sa Vermont paper) that about two
months p-..1. the Indians at Niagari receiv
ed from tne Britiiii commii'.ary i.xty thou
sand rations of proviiions.
It is mentioned .n a letter of a late date
from Charleiton (S. C.) that the laft-.ac
coimts trom the Indian nations in the
neighbourhood of that (late are favorable,
ancf that it i not probable there will be
any trouble from tiiat quarter, during tne
ensuing winter.
On the Bth inft. the Governor of Maf
fachiifetts add.effedthe two honfes of the
legiflatufe of thatftate, met in aflembly at
the town of doiiKord. Among other ob- {
jecls contemplated in this speech, is the
lifcountenan'cing l heatrical exhibitions,
which have lately been openly held and
resorted to in Bolton under the appellation
of "Moral Lecttires."
The felecrmen or Boston have notified
the citizens and others that the capital is
at length rid of the small-pox, except only
three or four in a hospital, who were to be
difchnrged in a lev. days.
Upon a careful review of every article
tvs • uropean intel!;eerice, yetreceived.it
iloes not appear that t!:e ijuke of Brunl
vVick, at the head of his army, can ever
reach Paris. ,-.u and »c, however, arrive
there, his total drfrat v. ill be the more cer
tain. He need net prca fe to hinielt in
Paris, even the fa;n;nc of Burgoyne at Sa
ratoga . life i lift atone tor histen.eri
ty, and his armv, ..n all human probability,
w ill fall by the (V. or:!.
Many per fen - are e.t a lcf>for the- mean
ing of the word Ja a. implied to a ce
lebrated republican foeiety in France ; and
not a few execr. r i e . . rpon a 1 appor
tion of their being foir.e way related to
the old Englim Jactu trs, rroni tne lnnila
rity of name. The folio wing explanation
will be ful?.cleat - 1 :::s iuh tv vwhich
takes its name from the accidental circum
rtance of meeting in a church, formerly
belonging to a convent of Jacobine Monks)
Uandr'at the Ik ul or, sr.d is c.olely con
nected with, about r?,cco fociet.es cf a
llTKllar nun:re, • ■■■-' over every part cf
the nation. All public ar.d constitutional
queSiion.; s>iv i.e.. 1.-b ted in the fullc!:,
the moil free, and open manner When
a nie.t'..rc- ..f pi.llX nrportur.ee is Mi.en
into ccniideracion, a motion is firu made
on the fubjecr ; it i. then referred to a
committee, and tlieir report is imn cdiate
lv trunfj.i!tt«:i to a'.! other focietie who ill
the like manner take the affair into conli
deration, and tran i: it their resolutions
; hereupon to the (bciety at Paris. If the
majority cf e,-. .le-.j are in favor of the
iileal'ure 1 , it is then proposed to the Nation
al Aiiembiv as -irapcr t ) be fanflioic-d by a
decree, and the'r>. preventatives of the peo
ple give in a heal a:..', fa! :mn difeuflion."
The Prttlbui-gh resolutions, relative to
the excise, are lUlich resented at the town
ofStockbrid/.c, in .Mai'.aehnfetts. " i hefe
refutations (lays the paper printed at that
place'; cannot fail to cxcite the indignation
of every boneft well wither to the dignity,
peace, iiappincfs a: d profp. rfty of our
country. Some late publication- have (ra
ted many cf the inhabitants of the eftern
Territory to belli ' rct'ufe of the Furope
an work!— : br the liwiror of An.erica, we
hope the ftatemer.t 1* founded on fact.—
Surely no dais < f a people who have
fought and bled, who have waded through
difficulties and dangers to attain to their
present enviable lira alien, could be guilty
of lb dari übpid'.; .i-le end re. U»>..b;e
an attempt agaiait the laws of the Union.
If a vagrant 'iu rd c.ho have fought re
fuge in the bosom of our country, think the
prefeni. a le.a'oii .... c vn,.i-oul the authority
of government, be iknfe the savages of the
w iulernefs. are boftilely difpo ed towards
the Union, time may, and undoubtedly
will, coiivini e '.item ol heir miliake. The
great body o~ theti thens of America vene
rate the conn a: .ion, and approve olthe
laws ; nor will ul.fcv tamely fuffer an un
just infringement of them. The lirong
arm of the nation is yet competent and
willing to fc coral dae operations of legally
exercised power, and to chastise the inlo
lent temerity of a vile combination ofindi
viduals, who hav? dared to insult the ma
jelty of a free and independent people."
A party of Indians consisting of 197 Che
rokees, Sj Creeks, and 300 Shawanefe,
tiie latter end c: C.'eiaber attacked Bilcha
r. an's station fin t"'ie territory south of the
Ohio) the whole .ommanded by John
Watts, a half-breed Indian. They were
lYpi.lfed v. ith .'arable loss. Watts
\v as (hot through both thighs, and it was
thought'could iiot recover; a Shawanefe
warrior, or Cree-kchief, and many r.thers
were killed—Several of the leaders in this
attack were fg: v t: sos the treaty of Hol
lton, and had-n r: ray previous occa
sions (hewn tbenjfelves firmly attached 10
the United States- The only way to ac
count for their fddden change of fenti-j
merit, is their late . .. t to the Spanif.i go
vernor of Per.'acola. from whom they re 1
ceiyed present?, a ! it is said, were inc •
te<l to break with the United States. ,The Governor of M.aT.i'.l:n ins
address to tiie horde of re i ,r- : ■...: '■<' , ha;
fnbiiiitted to tht conlirierauoirof the
lature oi tha: state, t.ie ; r>w. ot the
coumoß',v.r»:h fcvccrar.; jßti-rcitfd in tt:e
Union Bank; oil the princ pi' 1 , ■•that it
advantages are to be derived troiii inltitU
tioiu of this nature, a participation ox the if i
by the Itate will - be tor tile nuerelt oi all
the citizens; and because, as it is ot • rea
importance to the community to have a
pi per regulation of the artificial medium,
cu. i ent 'wiuhin it, the public lalety will be
the better guarded by having the burnt
more under the eve of the legiiiative pow
cr."
J\ fb.tement 11''s ! :en published. n : la r e
paper, of the oia... .ait ilidran tribes and
nations from the lakes of Canada to the
Gutph cf Mexico. A'l.ordmg to that
ftatethehr, there t-xift on that pace, and
Moilg the vel-.ern hde of the Mdii.'ippi, fift}
Y the total amount ot the men
' belonging.to which (fit for bearing arms
is tfty-e.ili;t J .'iivji;i..iHi, poie hundred, an.l
thirty ; bf which tliere may be about thsr=
tv-five thousand warriors."
' A fiumber r.f French people are now
forming a fcttlement and building a town,
011 or near the Chenango river, in the north -
weltem parts of the itate of New-\ ork.
The C,h mango river falls into lake Onta
rio. it i faai, one hundred homes are to
be built the er,filing fcafon. ;
There are now in the press at New -
York, and m a few days t.. be publilhed by
Mr. Thomas Allen, No. 12, Queen-Street,
in that city, Memoirs of the life ot lb? late
General CHARLtS Lit, ]• fijuire, tjeHr
tenant Ccloael ot the Britiih 44-b ie g* l ~
njsnt— -Coionelin the Portuguese fer\ ic. —
Major- ...enerai, and Aid-du-camp to lin
king of Poland, and fejeond in command in
the service of the United States of Ameri
ca during the revolution: To which will
be added, his Political and Military 1 slays;
alio Utters to and fr m many di!tinguiiiied
characters, both in ■ mope and America
Th.- following persons are declared by
the governor of this state, (by proclama
tion > duly elected as 1 lectors for Prelident
and > iae-.Prelidept of the United States—
William Henry, jofepli Heii.er, Thomas
M'K.an, hii'iy i.iiiie., John Wiikins
junior, Robert Coleman, i nomas bull,
Cornelius Coxa, Robert Johnlton, John
Boyd. David Stewart, George Latimer
Hv;h Lluyd, Jamet Morris, and Robert
Hare.
Captain Paul, in the ('lll3 Amiable, on his
paif .gv fr«m Charlelloa to tins part, alew
tSaj . .inae, fell in with the wre< k ol a ilnp
from the Weft-Indies lor France, from
which he took the captain and crew, and
brought them to this city, with a quanti
ty of indigo, part of the (hip's cargo.
Extract of a letter from Bvjlon, dated Nov- 13-
'• It is-oblervable that ail high-flyingfe
dvraiiils are mightily for a fhsatre in this
town, which is as vehemently bppofed by
the moderate men, and if I am not very
wrong in my opinion will be ultimately
dilaountenanaed by the legiflafure. It
has always been the policy of arlllocracy
to encourage public lhews, and such like
fol.ies, to divert the people's minds from
politics and government aiiairs ; and rhis
is one great cailfe of a Theatre being, op
posed here By God's help, we nope to
continue ftedfaft in watching all public
proceedings, notwithstanding the tempta
tion.' to turn alide, and will not be led a
fvray by the songs of Syrens. To make the
pill go down the better, plays have been
introduced among us under the fpeeious
title of Moral leßures ; " thereby infringing
upon the duties of the clergy, and, as far
as can be done, fubitituting the play-house
for the church, and collecting from giddy
and deluded people the reward due to the
latter It was not without reaCtm. that
our reverend friend -lately exclaim
ed (upon hearing of their crotlded hou
ses) "forty years have I been preaching
morality, and could never a 1 that time
make more than a scanty living by my la
bours, andherearea set ot fellows whoc n
pick up hundreds of dollars in an evening
from •• moral lectures, 1 ' that in realuy
have no more morality in them than my
walking-dick '."—Another trick of theft
moral lecturers, is. to ofter beuefit-nignts
for the poor, and for the children of the
clergy; thinking thereby to get the law re
pealed against theatrical entertainments.
Whatever they may think, few people
here, even the pi)ol'elt would with to have
their children supported by the earnings
of the stage."
The following is the inb'tance of remarks
made by Mr. Balcjwin in the House ol
Representatives, on Tuesday Nov. 20,
on the subject of referring to the Secre
tary of the Treasury to report a plan
" for redeeming so much of the public
debt as by law the government has a right
to redeem."
" THIS mode of calling for plans from
•_,*r.e heads of departments, he feared, would
Toad further than the hou'fe would with to
go. It was too common, he said, when a
certain rtb' eai was to be attained, to avoic
a defeat, which a direct attack mi. ~.ii pro
duce, and wind round", in order to make its
attainment more certain, by gradual ap
proaches. By one motion, made on doubt
ful ground, supported by arguments apply-
Ing to.lt: particular nature, keeping out
of view the doubtful nature of its tenden
cy, one step, by the success of this firft mo
tion. is made over the true line ; —another
::lotio : follows, —baciced by the lirlt as a
precedent, and a further encroachment is
—till, when it becomes evident,
1 , flu !igradual encroachments, th it dan
gerous ground is reached; —but then, to
excuse a further trespass—precedents in
numerable, the general nature of which
i before xept out of fight) now become a
Strong argument against receding. _
Gentlemen wilhed light and informa
tion, it was alio hi-: wi!h to obtain it from
every proper source. It had been made
the duty of the executive departments to
!v r information to the legislature but this
information f.iould relate merely, in his
opinion, to ftateinents of facts and details
:,j buiineis, —the with tne m
:'e.rmario:i acquired, Should frame the lav.'.
He wilhed it explicitly and finally deter
mined. how f.:r l.ve Initiative ouliaeU
li euld be solely by the legisla
ture. u: d how much niijht l>e referred to
executive departments. He conceived
there was a folid'diaerencc of opinion, on
this point, in the house. as well as out of
doors. Some conceived, that the more af
lairsof society were thrown into the hands
of individuals, the greater Was tne fecu
::;y error. Others, on the other
l and, were of opinion, that clashing in
tercfts in large bodies kept them more
free from partial and improper bias.
Such a latitude was given to the expref
fi.ons in the law eftabidhing the treafuiy
department as to give room (he did not
mean tc criminate that department'for the
intrcdui-'ion of new fvltems and taws not
expected by the legislature.
When a motion for referring to the Se
cretary of the Treuibry the-petition of the
public . red.tors was made to report a pkm,
but little idea was entertained, he said,
that ftsch a law as the funding would be
the result, or that the excise fy'tcm would
have been the cordequeilce. ,
The impoh fyfteni was framed in a very
diaerenc manner, he remarked : —firft prin
ciples were adverted to—information was
collected from all parts with great labour.
Had the treafuiy department been eStab
iilhed then, this information might nave
been procured withlefs trouble : but this
once ca'l acted, the legiliaturc made use or
it, a d framed a law, the formation 01
which has not been looked upon as bad.
He then -dwelt on the diflinction oe
tween receiving information 011 which to
form a law. and receiving a pian of tne
law ready formed. He Warmly opposed
L'i* c > ijicdc c! ? receiving information, us it
was called from the Secretary. Gentle
: ten had said, that we might reject what
was proposed ; cut there was a great en
tire ue between a legislative power and a
revifionary power;—a very great differ
ence. as contemplated in the constitution
a difference bet'v. ten originating and pof
(eliuig, only the right ; 1 a negative.
The houle had'as much power, he re
marked, over theprocediugs of the Senate,
as over the plan of a law rep rted by the
Secretary. There is but this difference
bet ween them, that the plans or the Secre
tary are well fupprrtctl by argument.
He Slated the difficulty of mending a de
fective part in a corny!*'. at :d (y item, with
out indangering the uniformity of the
whole. It was less difficult to put toge
ther the parts from collected materials,
and to amend a plan before matured.
His objections to calling for matured
plans from the heads of departments had
arown stronger Since he firft entertained
them.' He held a; a principal niaxim in
governments, that the legislative, judicial
and executive powers Should be as dillinct
as pcfib'e. The propriety of this diftinc
rion was founded, in his opinion, in good
sense. It was-dangerous to entrnfl those
who had a profptct" of deriving sortie ad
vantage in the execution of a law to have
any hmd in framing it. It was as impro
per for the executive to meddle in the bu
inef4 of legislation, as for the legislature
to Utend to the execution of laws.
His high sense, he said, of the importance
of keeping the executive and legislative se
parate had had great weight on his mind
in objecting the other day, to bring an ex
t'cutive officer to an! ver m
the house. Such a precedent, he feared,
might pro re a dangerous one and lead to
an interference tif the legislature in more
important points. . . .
He owned that in some instances the dif
ferent departments of government mull
neceiTar*ly, rtj fame degree, be blended ;
but, he iniifted, they ihouldbeke.pt tepa
rate as much as polfible. Gentlemen, on
another occasion intimated, that the barri
er between them was chiely theoretical,
was a paper barrier. If it was a neeef
fary barrier, he hoped it would be as ef
fectual as U it wis a mound.
F.xperience was ilrocgiy hi favor, he
said, of the principles he 'I ne
house had tried both modes of originating
law?. That fvftem, which was originated
in the house, in,the sense in which he un
derllood the expreSlion, had set well on the
feelings 6f tlie people. Their inteieus,
nvi."re rere'ea.ted, their fears and
'.ov< understood by those who originated it.
This was not the cafe, as other laws had
been origlwted j on; person, licwovi
great his information and abilities, could
not be expected tc. be : ,ri, .anted with th
interefts of every pare of rt> exteniive a
country. If this mode had net been a
dopted in originating the excil? law, and
the other pursued, lie thought it might
have been rendered move consonant to the
feelings of the people.
His conftituenti, he contend;'!, had a
right to hive their feelings represent
ed, and if he found it impracticable
to nuke chsir voi.es heard, and fen
timeflt understood with effect in the htmfe.
he ihould confjder it his duty to try ano
tli *r mode of forwarding their intereit;
He would go, he said, to where fyltem
!>! ijjiiiated, there he would thrult in u!) it
i lfurntationan aequainnarice with his co:i
iiituents put him in poffHiion of, and de
mand it as a right that their feelings Ihould
be consulted. 1
Information he knew, and he fuppoed
it would be mentioned is received from
riiffererit quarters at the treasury, by pri
vate letters and, private conversations.
These often conveyed falfe information,
to his knowledge, and persons w}to ' ,at '
given it from the quarter from which he
came would not readily have owned it a
mong their neighbors, who might coniider
that their legal reprefsntatives were tne
aitly true sources from which information,
loncerning their wants or deiires, ihould
be derived."
To the Editor of tbi rf i lON AL 1 Fii-
S i R,
THE ful leers now under consideration
of the committee of Congress in regard to
the late expedition, are of too much im
portance to the citizens at large, and to
the honor of the United States, to require
apology fv a fr« mail's requesting
von to oabii'h the incioft-d queries relating
thereto. Matters of this nature ought not
jo" he ftnotiiered, but full invelligatien
made without favor, affection, or malice.
No information or hint.., for th.N pu.rpaie,
Ihou'.d be rejected, ir.tnely becacfe theyare
anonymous, and more especially when they
relate to fa.'ts placed within the power of
the committee" to investigate. A commit
tee might reject an anonymous paper hand
»d in to them w hen they would be induced
to refoett it if cow-eyed through the pub
lit eye for freemen will fcruthnze the con
duct of their fen tint.;, when iacls ai e laid
jefore them.
I am, fir, your humble servant,
J. S.
X—T is ftfp'efitfully requeued of the Ccm-
mittee of Congress on the late weitern
expedition, to fatisfy themselves find the
Public (now they have an opportunity of
information) reflecting the foliewi. g par
ticular:, viz. _ . ,
Fir It. Did the Commander in Clnet
cultivate a good underltanding with the
second in command, and with the other
principal officers ? or did he not ? It is ge
nerally aliened that he did not.
Second. The Commander in Chief in
his letter from Fort- Washington, Nov. 9,
informed the Secretary at War, that he
was, or supposed himfelf to be, oil St. Ma
ry's river, about fifteen miles from the
Miami village, when he was defeated. It
ii now aflerted that he was three or four
.imes that diitance ; far too much weft
ware! from his object, and on the waters of
Wabach'e. It is vvifhed to have this cir
:u initar.ee cleared up, tor the committee
rave not noticed it in their report^
Third. It appears from the Coraman
ierin Chief's letters, that at this place,
'Xuppofed to be fifteen miles from the Mi
ihii towns) he had retolved to throw
flight work in which to deposit the men's
knapsacks, S.c. and to have moved on as
lightly accoutreed as pdffible, those tiiteen
miles, in order to attack the towri.
011 the presumption that the army was
i.e, sc, or 60 nine;, iniiead of 15, from the
Miami town", it is allied what would have
been the consequences had tl.e enemy per
mitted his Excellency to have marched
that 15 miles, lightly accoutred as he pro
poled, or even twice the diiiante ?
Fourth. Did the Commander in Chief
ever call a council of officers lor their ad
rice in this respect, or in regard to any
transaction whatsoever on tlie campaign .
11 is aflerted he did not.
Fifth. The committee, in their report,
State, that in their opinion, the Comman
der in Chief was not at liberty to let tne
army move on without him, or to this ef
fect, notwithstanding his extreme infirmi
ties, and that ( with extreme pair/ to hhu
felf) he was carried 011 a litter: It is aik
ed what can excuse such an order to the
Commander in Chief ? Would it be im
proper to make this order from the War-
Office public j for it appears to be one
great cause of the defeat ?
Sixth. It has been afl'erted that the
Commander in Chief knew that there
were no provihons on the road betwee:
Fort Washington and his encampment, ai
the time he detached the firft regiment. anc
weakened his army thereby, m a mod: ei
fential manner : It is afl*erte<d- that he hat
official information to this effect from Col
Hodgden, the quarter-mafter-gtneral—
for it seems that all the flour e> pefled
did arrive with Capt. Kenham. at the en
campment cf the army, oii-the very day.
and. at the very hour Major HamtramtX
marched the firft regiment off. These
matters, are too important not to. be mi
nutely endnbed into,' after tlif3 hifb'fna
tlon j and ittdre efpecfally $S th£ cofelnit
tee of Congress have slated hi their report
that u the lit.,,,regime.:* detached jo
cover A convoy of provisions expected to
arrive."' , ,
It "is find that Cel. Hodgdon. Major
Thomas Butler, Major Gaither, and many
others can fatisfy the committee ori thel'c
heads. . • i
It hi.3 been aflerte.i by every
officer ?rrcoriverfatien with tßefr fellow
citizens, \vh.eo. ashed, and it is said it has
been given in testimony s o the committee,
that the Commander in Chief had neither
; econnoitered around the ground l:e or
dered the army to encamp upon v. lu re the
defeat happened, either before or alter
encamping there :
Did he or did he not so reconnoitre ? T
Eighth. It is aflerted that thefecond in
command, remdnftrated to the Comman
der in Chief again)! the rout he was pur-,
linns; and declared to him that he would
lose, or lead the army into the Leather
wood Swamp?, on the Wabafh liver, far
weft ward of h?s true rout to the Miamh
town; and yet the Commander in Chiri
perfirted : Have the committee any fuclt
information ? • ...
Ninth- It is aflerted that Genera?
Harmar marched his army in October and
November 1790 front Fort Washington tc
the Miami town ~ deilroyed tho<e town?,
and returned with fiisarmy to Fart Wilm
ington in 33 days . and that' he had as large
an army, and as jrreat a nun ber cf hcrie*
to support, with forage at as kte a feafotl
ef the year, as Gen St. C lair had : ai.vt
that his arrangements werefojuft as never
to have experienced want of proviliona or.
I'orage. Itis alfoatferted that the diflance
from Fort Waft ington by Ge'"> Karmai';
wc'l known and easy ror.t, v s no more
:ha:l i~o miles : Indeed this he mentions
11 his own journal : and it is now aflerted
9 be proved, that the diftahce by Gen.,
>(, Clair's difficult and before Unexplored
cut b if-o mile.., in advarfcinj t>s miles of
A'liich he was jo days. Are thefe!'afl>rti
:ions founded '.1 truth, or are they not ? r
Tenth. The committee in their report
late " That 011 the 31ft of October. about
So militia deserted in a body, and the < firlt
-eoimerit was detached %\uh a vie\<" to
:cver a convoy of provilicns which was :
"xpected, an:! -t v.n v< as
in danger from the deserted militia. '
Tt b since that the convoy ot
jrovilions, alluded to, had actually arrived,
.n camp at the time of the firtt regiment'.-:
marching, & this the commanded b> thbfV
J wit journal "Teems to prove, in fheie
■.vo'rth—"SNovember ill Benhsrn arriv'd
raft night."- It is also (aid, the ftrfl <"<?gi
nei.t marched but .1 little before fur-t 4 cwn.
Hid proceeded only two or three miles
.hat nig-ht. Are these things so or are
;hey not ? They are worth;' alien'-on.;
or a regimen so long, and to tvell chfe,-
>11 lied in the western service, and so v.-c-.'5
ifficered, was very capable of having tur 11-
■d the fate- of the day !
Eleventh. The committee report that,'
' the whole order of march appears _o j
lave been judicious, and the g.ourd, : 1
■ tlion well chosen." 11 is aficrted that the
lrft was prescribed by th~ feeond in com
nand in the absence of the .Commander i.-f
ohief,whofe order of march was ijrpracti-.
.able ; and that the Commander in Chief
m his return;, never altered it. - Was if,
31* was it not so ? And as to tile lecond, it,
.ever was pretended that the ground of
mcampnieiit was chosen by the
:r in Chief, or b'v any body but the one
is u the ground for action.'' Ita.s said by.
Major Butler, that C-apt. Po.vers and cthi r
afiicers, that the Commander in Chief had
!Veejuently infilled 011 the army 's c-icalnp
jt; oil v.vy b.-.,l grounds, long before ic
reach. il the plat e of aiiion ; bitt from the
prudence of particular ofticers the Com-,
;nax.derin Chiff was dragged on to good
Tjfoumls.—Was it, or; was it not so ?.. . _ .
Twelfth. The report lUtesj thai in the.
opinion of the committee ''the failure ot
.he iate expedition can in no rt'f he im
puted to the conduit of t!ie Commands. r
m Chief: And that during the action if
fnrnilhed firing tellimonies ot his cool
ness and intrepidity. ::
It is aflerted that U h'as been given in tcft'mony
bv vfte tl ee or foer ii J rviving r a- ; ce; s r.ext in.
con minJ, that the Commander in Chiet never
re nnni ierect die u:ouaas iroinid the entJp.i} '."nenr r
t! »t lit Was fufpiifed by the enetr.y, and that he
gave nil or,e orcer during t.'ie engagement, f.'vfft
for d rttreat, nor made a Tingle marauvre of any
line part of the army o fui>,ert the other.' It is
v.ifli.-d to draw the attention of the coir.rnittee
to these circomflaniei, it true. . The king of
: relTia in his m:tiio:,s f.tvs, 4< I an -v -1
who was on the ground where the .-.irg of cop
land flood (during the battle of at the:
head of his Han. verian battalion," with ies lef?
foot behind his ri b ht, his I'wurd in his JianJj and
his aim extended, nearly in the faint atiiturfe ai
a' fencing mal er would put htmfelf when he
, rer-anng to make a lunge in quartt. He gc'JC
'n-arks >f Ira vet 1, but no ordeistlat related wtl i
battk.'' - - - S'
PRICE OF STOCKS:
Six per cents. a \Ji
Three per cents, ia/v
Deferred, 1
1n t . Bank stock 4^Some particulars relative to the Manufac
tures, Productions, life, of several interior
parts of the United States. Ex'.raciea
from the cnrrcfpondev.ee of a gentleman thai
formerly removed to those parts of the com
try.
business of sugar making is mofl
-A ly managed bv women a.id boys ;
the men generally living nothing more tc
do with it than to tap the trees, prepare
the flieds, and different apparatus. Sc
that bur agricultural employments are ve
ry little obllru'£ied by tl)is business which
produces so important an ar icle for dff
medic nfes Tli perfe£lion to which w<
havebtought our sugars ha- induced rax
ny people in the upper parts of the (late:
of New York and Pemifylvania to make z
business of it during the season of thf
juice running; and considerable qtianti ici
have been sent to the markets of P ila
delphia & N York,not inferior to the bef
clayed, French, ar,<i Spanish fugan.
The fait springs which have been foam
n the fi'i le state of Kentucky, tinner pr 6
per management, would be lufficient t(
produce fait for all the inhabitants whicl
the wcllern country could support. Then
are at lea ft twelve of those springs betweer
Great Sandy and Cumberland ; the prin
cipa: of which are the upper and low,"
blue licks, on Licking creek ; r.e on tin
Great Bone crtek ; one on Drimnon'
lick Creek, about a mile and a half frori
them. ~i ot the Kfntucky; and Bullit'
lick, on Salt river, 20 miles from the ra
piiis of the On o This (pring I*3 the fiH
that was worked in the.ountry. Thi
si' • yi i" 'bis brilln fs were also imper
fed, rnich, however proceeded more fron
poverty than ignorance. The great prifi
eiplr by which the saline particles an
ch-yll:i iz d, s univerlaily known to be b)
the evaporation of the humid; and tht
gren er the fuperficia' furface of that eva
poration, the more rapidly the chryftali
will form. But the fir It settlers could noi
procute fait pan -, and wer*; obliged to uf<
a 9 a iubliiture the pots and k.ttles whicl:
they had brought out for dcmeftic purpo
ses.
Such was the commencement <-f ma
king fait in this country; which, fr ill it:
scarcity and high price, in some measure
discouraged the settlement of the coun
try. However, the gn at improvements
since tiiat tera have done away all those
fesr»y and flt is now manufactured xi
plenty, and fold tolerably cheao.
The water i 3 t-y no means so strong as
sea water. It requires nearly four hun
dred gallons-to make one bushel of fait,
which is more by one half than would be
wanted of sea water to produce that quan
tit .
The water is not colle&ed immediate
ly from the spring. An area of from five
to ten acres round those springs is found
to be impregnated with this mineral, fc
that by digging wells in any part of that
space fait water is discovered. F onl this
citcumllance I afn of opinion, that by dig
ging pits a body of earth w< uld b. founc!
ilrOngly impregnates with fait, from which
the saline pa ticks might I e more eafilj
separated thn from water; and it isi cer
tain, that it the water receives its par i
chs of fait, from the earth which it passer'
th. ough, such earth null contain a large
proportion of fait, otherwise the ftrengt
cfthe water would not be so considerable.
However, it will require some time to do
ten ire this matter, as the infancy of oui
ecunt y wil not permit us to speculate toe
largely in experiments which would be at
tei ded with heavy expences, were they
not to prove fuccefsful.
Salt springs have be n found in every
part of'.he wcllern country which has
been well explored; and I have no do >bt
that time will prove t hat evety part of it
is well fuppbed wthth em The manner
by which they are mostly found in unit,
habited places is_ by the large buffalo roads
which lead to them. Wheneter the ra
mification of those road§ begins t con
centre, it is almolt an infalli !c iign I at a
fait lick is near Those animals refeSrting
to them throughout the temperate part oi
the year for the benefit of the sal , makt
large roads, which leading frcm the lick,
branch different ways into the country.
We have various other minerals, such
as iron (which is the moll ufeful) copper,
lead, sulphur, m;re, &c. &c. iron ore
is found in great plenty upon the nor'herr
branches of Licking reek, and likewise
upon the waters of the Great Kanhaway
There is another between the Cumberland
■ I and Tenafee rivers which is said to be very
valuable, and its ore is more pure than any
other which has been difcovercd in Ame
rica. But the lead mine on the Mifiilip
t pi mult nrove in. xlnuftihle It extends
from the mouth ol Rock river more thar.
j JOO milts upwards. Besides these there art
fever?,l others some of which lie on the
Spanish fide of the Miflifippi, and have
! been used for years palt; copper mines
3 have been discovered in several pi ces, but
- the mine on the Wabafh is, peihaps, the
' richest vein of native copper in the bow
• els of the whole earth ; and no doubt will
1 fender all the others of little or no value,
Sulphur is found in several places in abun
: dance; arid nitre is made from earth
" which is collected from eaves and other
3 places to which the wet has not penetra
-1 ted Ihe making this sal', in this coun
- try, is so common; that many of the fet
-5 f tiers manufacture their own gunpowder.
i uis earth is difc6vered in greater pie.n
---' ty on the waters of Grten river hari ii
: is in any other part of Kentucky ; bul
1 perhaps (till farther southward it will be
• found in greater plenty. However,' it ii
> so common in every part of the country
! that it might be made i confide' srble at
ticle of tjtportation; I have heard of tfi<
' black lead mines upon the head qua ten
of the Kentucky, but I have not been a
, ble to procure any certain information re
■ fpeding them. But I should conceive
1 that these can be little doubt that, whei
1 the country, and particularly the mountainous
■ tainous p its of it, are well exp'orcd, al
the ufeful minerals will be found in a
bundance.
I have already mentioned the coa
mines in the upper parts of th? Ohic
country ; btfidesr which there are greal
quantities of coal upon the upper bran
ches ol the Mifliiippi. It is particularly
favorable that this mineral lies at thi
heads ot our larger r vers, ffs it can b<
sent down with the great.-ft facility ; anc
it is very certain that the great body ot ii
which tiie Ohio country alone contains, i:
equal to anl'wer all the purposes for w : id
it may be wanted throughout this ex;enfiv<
empire.
I hough the champaign part of thi:
country has fio stone on its furface, ye
every where limefton'e is found from fix tc
fifteen feet below it. Molt of the bottom
of o.ir rivulets and ftrcrfms are paved witl
this stone. ft is' very easily calcinecf
when it becomes excellent lime. It is all;
convenient for building, by reason of it:
peculiar fmocthn.fs, and the ease witl
which it may be worked into any form
Besides this stone, which is th mof
common, every other kind of stone i
found wh eh is l'ther ufeful or orriamen
tal, such as flint, grindstone, and millstone:
of a very go< d quality, which have beei
reckoned equal to French burrs. Ther
is the great;!! plenty of marble upon thi
banks ot the Kentucky, particularly a
Letlburg. I have not seen any which ha:
been poliflied ; but judges in that bufinef
gi*e us the most fluttering ideas of it:
qualit^.
Cla\ is very common in every part o
this country which is proper for bricks
and there is a superior kind on the Beecl
fork i f Salt river, which no doubt miyh:
be manufactured i to good porce Sin —
Carver has mentioned a clay o; this fori
which lie saw sb ve St. Anthony's falls
Marie, chink, and ochre;, ar<
found in various parts.
Mr Jefferfon h s described the midici
naf, iuflammable, bituminous, and othei
Ipfings, very accurately; and as there
have been no discoveries or light throwr
upon the fubjed since he wrote, I shall re
ler you to his book for a particular account
of them. Indeed, his account of the na
tural history of t is country is generally
to be depended upon, so that it is scarce
ly pofhble to make any improvement upon
it, until farther discoveries shall have an
fen ; I therefore confine niyfelf to such
objects as he has not taken notice cf, and
to luch as ha»e prefentcd themselves since
he wrote, occasionally making some stric
tures and animadverfior.s upon his opi
mons and information.
I have observed that the climate of
this country is various. But, as climate
is frequently different in the fame para!.
lels of 1. titude, I will endeavour to o-ive
you forte idea of the difference between
the climate on the upper parts of the O
hio, Peniifylvania, and Maryland, of Ken
tucky and Virginia, and of Cuniberianc
and North-Carolina, which lie in nearly
the fame parallels one with another.
It is well known that the climate upon
he Atlantic coarf: of America is in the
extreme of heat and cold, and that it is
more va iable tnan when it was firfl: fet
tled by Europtans; but the winters are
milder. The extremes pioceed no doubt
from the immerife continent, which lies
to the northwefl, and which is inter
f erfed with frefli water lak.es. The ra
rified air of the torrid zone rufhin in
currents through the upper regions to the
Av&ic circle, leaves a vacancy for the
cold air, which; in supplying its place,
causes those frequent chills or v<tria ion;
■n the spring and autumn, and alternate
froft, rain; aod n ild weather in winter
which are so common in the middle part:
as that country The cold is more ilea
3y to the north of Hudson's river; bul
the power of the fun to thefcuih of 41
Ty countera&ing the influence of the
northern winds, occasions those fudder
changes rom he;.c to cold. Opening the
:ountry has greatly tended already to lef
ien the cold, f>y con'fequence of the greate;
:)(-iwer of the fun upon the earth ; and ;
general cultivation, by producing a warm
er atmosphere, through which the nortl
wind passes, mult tend to moderate the
dima.c generally on the Atlantic sea.
METEOROLOG !C AL OBSERVATIONS.
! Nov MBe , 1792.
D. H.j Bar Ther.WmJ. Weal!
Tuesday, *3.'7 29. <; 35 W Fair.
3 29. 8; 50 S.W. do
Wthief day, 14. 7 29. 8 40 N.W. Fair
, 29 87 53 jN.W. do
Fhurjday, 15. 30. 1 J<7 W. Fair
n -joo; 53 S.W. do.
Friday, 16. - 29. C 48 w.s.w Cloud•
, 2 29- S 57 3W. Fair
Saturday, }y. 7 30 04 39 NW. Tair
si 30. 0 55 NW. do
Sunday, 1,1. 29. 9 46 i.s.W. Cloudy
2 29. S 60 w.s.w do.
Monday, 19. - 29. 76 55 calm. Cloud]
2 29. 6 61 N. 1" Raw.
K I D s and Go.
PER FUME RS, &c.
Ilavejuft inipu.ieJ in the P 1 G O'U, and other
late jrrivjls from Europe, and nnw open r 1
S'Jie, at their store, No. 222, in Market abofc
Sixth-rtreet,
A neral ajjoftment cf th». fo!!c<tpin<r
G 0 0 D S, viz.*
LADIES' and Gentlemens' japanea drefiing
/ cases complete, of all forts
Gentlemens* ihavin® cases, powder bags, boxes
and powder puifs of all forts
1 ortoifhell, ivory, and horn combes, of all kinds
iooth brui/ies, dragon roots and oowdef
\ll kinds of the best cloaths brushes
ladies* tortoiihel! Aiders for the hair
>tlt Windsor soap, ail kinds of walh balls
Powder masks and court plailler
S Ik purses and gloves tops
A.IJ kinds of raif >rs, warranted
ticket, pen, and (porting knives
•>cifiors of all kinds
aching, curling and spring iron:.
V general ad'orcmeut of pocket-books, ladies
tnrtMd c.-les <ind et\v~s
eft English, Chtflj e, and Gloucester cheeses
Nax, wax e^nd)- s , and sealing- wax
Meflage cards of all kinds
\il kinds of hair powder
Engliili, French, and other pomatums
J amboured, CaHimier and mufiinet waiftco a
patterns.
An elegant ajfortment of
Ready made Milinary,
Confining ot twit diefs, Caps, Hat:, a..a Btnttin.
Fine chip fiats
Black and colouretf beaver hats, best quality
\n alfortment of the molt fafhionable ribbons
And beads for trimmings and other ornaments.
Have likeivife received a f r e(h fupbiy of
MILK ef ROSES.
They leave to inform tne ladies, that tK'ey
contioue to make all kinds of ornamental sal/i
nair upon an entire new method, ancl of f6 light
ind easy a conltruflion, that they lookbetter than
Ahenalady is drefled by the melt expert hati
ireiTer#
An afTortment of elegant cut Steel Watch
Chainr, Seais, V\ arch Kcjs, &c. v\ • r |j a variety of
ther goods, too tedious to enumerate.
November 10. 4 w. iavv;
Manufactured and for Sale,
At No 11, North Sixti-Jlreit,
Fafllionable Round Top and Fist
BUTTON S,
Warranted superior to any imported of
equal price.
Country Store keepers fupp'tied either in
Hnall or large quantities, By
S. POST & Co.
N.B. Conklhel Buttons, Buckles, See.
Oft. 17. aawtf
Three handfom; Editions of the Lazjj
of the Unite 11 *tates for [ale at this office
(No. 209 MarketJlreet) in foFw and oßa
vo either full or half bound—N.B. The
Laws of the lajl Scffion, in oilavo only, may
be hadfyarate. price three eighths of a dollar,
G E .0 G R A P H Y.
Mat hew Carey.
Refpefifuily luorn s Co the Citizen; of the Un
ted - ir***, T hf* following
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
yin AMERICAN EDITION of
Guthrie's Geography
J M H R O V !i D.
of ivhich tcefe are the terms :
IT /hall be publilh -d in 48 weekly number?,
each containing three Iheets, or twenty
' >ur pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed
til new types on fine paper,
11- In the . ourfc or the work will be deli
vered about thirt) large maps, of the fame size
' ; thole vn the European ediriuns viz. molt of
hem iheet maps on pnlt paper
Be/d, s the m'aps in the Bi Itip edition,
■bis lvork ivll contain maps cf as mjny of the
United States as can be readily procured, executed
'<y the beji engravers in the United States.
Jii< Ihe pr.ee ot c« c h number will be a qua r
dollar, to be paid on delivery.—fdj-No ad
vance required.
IV. The work will be put to press as soon as
70i; copies are lubf.ribed for.
V. Subfci ibers who dilapprove of the
work* on the puolication cf the three fir it num
b-i>, are to be at liberty to return tr.cm, and
Hiall have their money repaid.
VI The fubferibers' names ill all be prefixed as
;rat: ns the undertaking.
Perhaps there is no science more entertaining
-nJ ufeful than geography. It reveals the dilT
coveries of travellers—the remarkable curiufitiea
as ail countries, in nature and art—the fiiuari
on of provinces, cities, towns villages, rivers,
and mount •' n-— in line, the IVisTorv, aia.iners,
cu'loms, laws, force.-, revenues, and goversment
'I different nations.
It is an old oble vation, that " there is not a
fan or daughter of Adam, but has some concern
with geography," and thai a knowledge of this 4
Icience is indifpei ( a ble towards the study of his
tory with advantage or fatisfrfion. Indeed a
man unacquainted with it, cannot discourse on
the nmoft coihicm i.ewfp;-per t,pic of the da«
without betra- ng hi- igriorance.
ho much f r geography generally. With ref
pedt to the prei'ent . 1 an, let it fuifice ta remark
that ?L''t Vrit i C o Uphv has be: 1 long acknow
ledged to be rile bel? hr ,he Englilh language:'
however, the iccour.t of America in it ha,', ;,om
obvious reasons, been very erroneous and defec
tive. The errors of fot.mf'r eoir„jns will be cor
tefled, and the defefls supplied, b. gentlemen of
lOllltles, wh . have engaged to superintend this
undertaking, and ro avail thrmfelves cf all the
"format,un 'hat can be procured, to render it
:;re moll co o, ie.e edition extant.
The Printer earnestly solicits the support of
"* throughout the United States :
•nd as no depoiit is required, and every fubl'cri
;erwiil be at lib rty to withdiaw his name, if,
>n tr.yi, he fliould disapprove of the woik, he
•opes the friends of science, and of American arts'
:r.d manuiaOu.es ..ill cheerfully and e»i*l, pat
omze: this ulefu. work, the greatest and most
:it pen five, probably, ever vet attempted inArne
'C r, in the IV rograpical line, the Encyclopaedia
excepted. ' r
Pfula. Nov. pch. 1791. lawtf
CHARLES BITTERS,"
No. 120, Sout/i Market, near Fourth ftrtel
Has received from New- V ork, and ma
/ by Lot Merkel,
A large and general alTortment of
Muffs and I ippets, Trimmings
and Edging?,
"reat Coats, Caps, Mitts and Gloves lined
with Fur. which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,'
at the lowest prices.
Nov. 24. rawtf
"% — "
Bank United States.
, Phi adelpkia, Nov 2cth. 1792.
pHE stockholders of the hank of the
* United St tes are hereby informed,
hat according t0 t j, e ft atU te of incorpora
lon, a genei-91 ele&ion for twenty-five Di
'eftors will be held at the bank of the
Jmted States, in the city of Philadelphia,
>n Monday the seventh day of January
iext, at ten o'clock in the forenoon.
And pursuant to the eleventh fedtion of
he bye-laws the stockholders of the fait!
>ank are hereby notified to aflemble in ve
jeral mectinp;, at the fame place, on
I i.nriday the eighth day of January next,
it nve o clock in the evening.
By order ctf the Prelidentand Direaors..
JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
t. J. 5.
WANTED,
A Journeyman Book-binder,
10 go to Carli/le. —•
A PERSON who is capable of petforming
nea B ndmg and Lettering, will receive
; ;°. u "c S , e ,VV,o T . he P aftic " l: " s so be ascertained bs
; V ' ElSs , Jilouire, Atch.ftreet, 159, phi
rldetphls; Nov . , 3 . 4^uw
Forfeit, at the printing off.ee, a few copies
>/ the firjl •oo.'vrrie of the National Gazette
PRINTED BV
CHI LD S AND SWAIN!
AT TU t!R OFFICE NO. 209, KICH-STUIf
NEA3 rir TH-STRIET,
* HIt.ACKI.rHI Ai