~4r*
"1/ I /
IC I /if¥T /I|'lHr i fL ><A f/% /$ ifi 7 /silt
ilt 'Ik/ £t CfeyfLk/ fw ¥/ ft H / ;$/ I i A/
Q f yy y •?' yy f -y K,
[Numb. 9 of Vol. 11. j
£ Frcrp Mr. IVt/liarn/on'f Speech in the
» Hnufe of Repr/fntati'ves, on Monday
Nov. 19, on his motion to prepare Bills
"for the relief of infirm seamen" ; ana
"for pr muting commerce fy inert ast
the r.urr.ler of native slmericun f.'umen."^
*1\ % EAST TREShave already'been tak
xViL e'nb; Congress, for irtCie?.Gng ih<
number of on shipping ; but-to effeiiu
al and general ruealurehas be»r adopter
for cncrct.ling the number ct native A
mericati feamon. Every gentleman ir
my hearing knows, that there are al
ways a cor.lidi rat !e numbet of foreigner'
011 hard American vessels ; bui
none of uscoult! have expected, and fomt
of us may not have heard of the injur}
and insults to 1 vhich our commerce ha:
been exposed, from having British feamei
on board our ships.
A fcliooner ca I ed the Divid and Georg*
belonging to Poi.tfmouth in Virginia, anc
commanded by captain Gofngan, latel)
touched at Sierri 1 Leona on the coalt o:
Africa ; {lie was navigated by elever
persons. Three of that number wht
Itad been on , fi* ; ore, informed captain
Wickham who ci immanded an armed vef
fel, that they were Britilh f,ibje£ts. Cap
tain Wickham wi nt on board the Ame
rican vessel and cl-limed the three seamen,
he also claimed wages for them. Cap
tain n Tcfttfed to deliver the men,
and declared with truth that nothing was
due them. Cap. Wickham took the men
by force, and by the fame regulation he
wen into the hold , and took as much of
the cargo as he thought fit, under the
cov/'r of f bftitute for wages. Captain
Goffi; ~n complained of this violence and
x©.>bc. ail, . wno is
or of the province; Th« governor replied,
That he should hr.ve done the fame thing
and that he had o ders from his Superiors
so to act in such cases
'1 he ship II ufhunts Prefidcnt belong
ing to Virginia commanded by captain
Butler, touched some time ago at Maclei
ra in her paflag-e to the Enlt Indies. The
British frigate Hyena,commanded by cap
tain Htrgood, lay at that time in tln
road. Seven of Captain Butler's sailors
by letter or otl.ier means informed captain
Hargood that they were ritifh fubjedts.
cap. Ha good sent to take the men by
force from on board the American ship,
and he wou (1 infallibly have taken them
with him, unltfs the governor of the island
rememberin/r what he o ed to the honor
of his nation and to every ship under his
pro e&ion, had interrupted his authority
The ship Fame b?l aging to Philadcl
phia, commanded by Wal er Sims on her
way to th- East Indies, lately touched at
Table Bay, the Cape of Good H'-j;c
Captain Blith who commanded a (hip of
20 guns, then lay in the road. .One of
captain Sim's sailors, a native of Scoiland,
offered his ferv ce to captain Bliih,calling
himfclta British fubjeft. That very man
in Philadelphia, had taken the oath of al
ligiance to the United States : but the
British claim was belt; for-captain Blith'.
ship was Itrongeft. He took the man,
sent an officer on board the American
(hip, who took the liberty of opening the
after hatch, searching the hold and look
ing cut a chetl and cloaths. Captain
Blith juftified those acts oi violence, by
faying, That he had printed \njlrutiions to
take ail who called themselves British fub
jeCts.
These are a few out of the tiumberlefs
cases in i&hich our ships have been robbed
of their seamen, and they are samples of
the manner in which we (hall be conltanu
]y treated, while we depend on foreign
ers to navigate our (hips. If these cases
I had terminated in threats and abufivelan
gusge, to which our flag is too much ac-i
cuftcmtd, it mightl.ave been queitioned
whether the nation of the offending par
ty was to blame. When you are told by
one officer and another, that :;e isi-ftruc-
By P. FRE r: £A U : Pui'iJlic.t Wednesdays an! Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
W E D N E 3 D A Y, November 28, 1*792.
ted t,o cii *r. ft our trade, we should, f pof
lible, deprive them of tlie present excuse
It is not our buiinsfs to eoqure the cause
or those ftranje phenomena. By a vi iated
prffio'i tor Bnliih goods, vv; ?.re univer
faliy cloat'ned in the manufactures of that
nai'on. C:ir debts increr.fc every vca v ,
end "■ -* ' -:r to rr.ah' her .ieh white vv
"re b.-. «">g penr We ;> ;r f.ar trea
lures •. ,j» her lap • -sre t v .3. .. ;y .-ithe
nation under th? fun. C)b r .*r.e the r-j
---■vards ' I Ly m.'hing a> o-.it her measure:;
on our wel'tern frontier, but our trading
(hips are boarded arid plundered at disc e
tion by her Hups or war. Such marks
of contempt ! and Great Britain, whose
commerce we cherish, is the only nation
that tr,::.ts us in this manner. Perhaps it
is ce.i.jeftured, that Amer cans arc of that
species of animals w'lofe favour is incveaf
ed by rough treatment : he this as ii
it is our duty to conlider of tlie iafell
and illreft mode of extending ou*' com
inetce. After we have been told, thai
an American veflel having fadorson board,
who chance ti: have been born in the B i
tifh dominion, is fubjedl to be deprived
of her hands, robbed of her property, and
turned adrift without help, it can hard
ly be neceflary to adduce other arguments
in favour oi native American (eamen, but
other strong and conelufive arguments in
favour of the meal'me, present themselves.
The merchant's property in critical fitua
tioijs, or in diftaut or obfeure parts of the
woild, is always moll fafe when his (hip is
navigated ny men who uniformly drive to
return to their native hoir.e, and whose
hopes and happiness center in that coun
try to which their flip be!oug3. The
ercw of i French bricjfome tnor.thf
mtmiered their captain aiid mate on our
coift 5 that misfortune, in all probability,
would not have happened, if the seamen
bad been natives of Franco. Two of
them only were of that kingdom. Is it
nece riar y to add, that a powerful body of
I amen, at some future day, may save us
'rom the vast expence and danger of a
iLanding army. Upon this (ingle argu
ment of native Ira men, we might reft the
question. It needs neither (upport nor
illullration. 1 (hall [h cfore prelutne,
that it is our duty as soon as possible, to
provide agairift the daily operations of
pride or injiaHice—To furnifli the mer
chant with seamen, of whom he cannot be
robbed except by open declaration of war
With seamen in whom he can trust—
with men, who adlnated by those passions
which are infeparalvle from the human
breast, the pride of nation & the love of
country, may serve him in every part of
•,'l two rid To furnifh the nation with a fa'e
un J strong bulwark against foreign tyran
•".y and itivafion.
[Remainder in our next.)
[IT has been an observation of some
Handing,that if the Western Indians bad a
printing office among them, many truths
would be brought to light, that for want
offuch a medium of information on
their part, mull remain in obfci.iity. As
an inflame of what Indian Writers might
produce, we copy from the Kncxville Ga
«ette of October 22. -the address of the
Cherokee Indian chief Hanging Maw,
to his friends and brothe s, the Printers
of that paper, containing a talk to Mr.
Will: cm Cocke, of Mulberry Grove—pre
voufly addrtffing the printers as folic hs :
l " J have no money to fend you, but I will
give you t'luo pounds of beaver for it, i 'yon
■will put this talk upon paper, like Wiliam
Cocke's,that it may be heard a great Wi.y off
.7,r well as his.'~\ William Cocke of Muloerry
Crete I lam going to give yon a talk,
and it fhaii be short, for thole who talk
much do not tell the truth, I suppose
voa wiih it to be thought tint von are a
man an.i a warrior, and you make long
u'r.SySnd get them printed in the Knos
ville Gazette, that they may be leen and
heard a -great way otf. 'l'he talk yon
have roads is sq: ycur own talk—you
r eit ; B-nckenridge had the fame talk
! "tare II C'jci:t 1 Vv !iat have you
$ ' ta '- c about treaf-.s \ You know no
l'k»g aW them ; I have heard your
1 I'ks before ; they are' 1 like'nothing.
ou flip,, >fe the goods given at the
•'<=*}'» and tii fe which were to be paid
ery year to my people, weiv given to
■•■■-'■ vou f-iendfhip. I told you that you
*■ tw nothing abc:t the. matter —
- .')• were the price of pur lands, protr.:-
1! in i.nr and <>p c n treaty You got a
eat quantity of lands, worth an hun
•• ec ' tines as much as.von gave f r then:
You have a heart like a squaw, an;!
!. Ik like one : You fay fear is the be ft
3 W only afTurai.ee of the friend/hip of an
I -'iiati. This :s the language of a ba.'
' art : Why i,\ :an Indian ? The Great
a-i above made us all of one clay, both
r , and white peoi !e, aad gave to sonic
■ hearts of men, and to others the heart:
Squaws. Youi sis of the latter fort, oi
/• 1 would not talk such hard talks, nr.d
i all the Cherokees mint be killed, be
.l fume of them are bad men, and go
l- war.
lam glad to hear you talk hard of
V--," i'" 1 "-* -a-hcr/.iic Prelident,& of the
l\ ::e.:! States with refpedt to Indian af
fa s. He wfll fee you talk like a fquav.',
»- . that you know nothing about v.-.at it
; 'd for him to do
''on tell i he little talks of yourbad men,
<o . ta'k when they ought not, a, you do,
. ■ riake their.ielves-g'-eat men, as if they
e- ;e the head men and councils of the
iv dc nation, and you add a number r-i
hi. to your taks out if your own head :
iik! you have put them upon paper, and
; . <.. n i thl"i i orre.-t i-.n of to make
'itbeloved father, the President, and aii
ai:> beloved men think that all the Chero
iees, men, women and children are bad,
ir.d ought to be laid on the ground.
lou are not a man and warrior ; but tc
nake people believe you are, you talk ol
laving killed Keanna. You iaid you did
t by good fortune ; bnt remember it wa:
n the time of pea-.e, and you dl i noi
men 1 but he was a man when yon
■tilled him You alio murdered my belo
■•ed brother, the i'affel or some of youi
people, with hearts like yours, did it ; ir
:ime of peace too , these are not the ac
ion; of men and wariiors.
I suppose you will put more of youi
:alks on paper. I will not answer then
tn-y ir.ore.
You are but a boy and talk for your
r elf. Our great father, the President
did not tell you to speak to us, and he
•Vill not hear your t-i:_, nor .'. ill we heai
■ hem any more ; they are like the ta k:
as a Mush man.
We understood that your governmen!
ivas a good one, and your laws just, anc
that.your father the President, and the
men whom he appointed as warriors ant
coiii.fel'ors, were to fee thole laws exeert
ted. We never heard that y -u, Williatr
Cocke, have been chosen a warrior or a
eoi.n feiior, fiace the battle oftheLon-
IllauJ, and I know he will not lift, n u
my of your talks. He has sent a belovee
rryn to hold ta ks with us This man i:
ike himfelf and has a good heart and ]
kapw our great father wi 1 Men only ic
i:s talks. nor does he allow me to heai
any other.
This taik I have delivered in the belo
i-ed town ofChota, October ,1792.
HANGING MAW.
FOREIGN NEWS.
—4 —
LOND-ON, Sep 29.
There are few cases in which a conceal
ment of truth can be even of a teir.port.ry
advantage ; and under the conviction ol
this trttt has been conceale :by 1:e
■>J the enormities praclife-'l in Pari3, where
the <afc was well anl fairlyj..fupoorte .i.
That in oft of our public prints,, however,
Rotal No. 113]
abound with accounts of {hocking- exccflVa
in France which never exiiled, &crueltics
purely- t!ie creatures of slanderous inven
tion, is but too tiuel There are French
emigrants at this hour in London, to the
amount of several hundreds, among whom
there are many, it can be inconteftiblv
proved, that are hired (by whom we j'hall
not fay) to biacken the cause of France,
and by representing the patriotic party as
a set of lufernals, to make them odious
to the freemen of this island, the king,
a,-id the g vernment, for purposes that
none can be at a !ofs to develope.
A proposition has been made to the
jacobin aflembiy, that in cafe Lou's the
16th, and his wife, Maria Antoinette,
uiould upon trial be found guilty of the
crimes they are ch rged with, that they
hefentenced 10 die on the fcalTold ; but
that inflead of carrying the sentence into
>- -•- "i- uos, it (hail be left to thtir own
choice to name the country to which
they would prefer being lent to pals the
remainder of their lives in banifhmer.t.
1 ins it is thought, wiilbe a fufficient pun
.-nment for the royal traitors, without the
nation lubjeaing iifeJf to the odium a-.-;,
(lug from a prejudice in weak nunc?, that
there is fortieth ng sacred in royalty and
that the blood of a crowned traitor cinnot
be shed without a crime.
A court martial commenced on board
the Duke, in Portsmouth Harbour, OTI
Wednesday ills 12th inilant, on ch;;r<-e
jf mutiny on tie 28th of April, 1 -87,
on board the Majctiy's arm-d ve/Tel Boun
ty, iOi running away with the ship an* 1 !
defertini; his majedy's ferv : ce
Jofcph Coleman, Charles Nurmr.ri, Tiio».
Feter Ha-- id/}, Ilaac
Morris, John Milwaid, Wilhafcn Mufpratt,
i homas Lirket, i homas and
Michael Byrn. Ihe for the
profectitiou closed on Friday nii>ht the
14th instant and the court indulged the
prisoners till Monday to give in their de
fence, and on Tuefaay took the whole
into their confileration, when they were
pleased to pa s sentence of death on Hay
wood, Morris, M ilward, Mufpratt, Bir
kettj and Ellifon, the two firft of wliom
the court recommended to mercy. Cole
man, Norm an Mackintosh, and Byrn,
were acquitted and discharged. Mr.
Haywood is an accomplished younn- <»en
tleman, genteelly connected, with a for
tune of 30>cool fallen to him since he
has been in confinement.
Upwards of five hundred French refu
gees arrive ! last week from France, at
and near Lewes; near eighty of them
priests, and among them tlte bishop of
Avranches,who, with some ofhij brethren,
escaped out of France with 'great difficul
ty, having been hunted from place to
I laee, and hardly efeaped the fangs of the
irritated people.
The kin v. during the tumult in Paris
on the 2d of September was placed in an
interior apartmentof the Temple, that the
populace might not be irritated by the
light of him, and was attended conilantly
by one national guard. The people once
approached the temple, the guard of
which unloaded their guns, reversed theif
bayonets and contented themfJves with
placing the barrier of a blue ribbon up
on the gates, \vith an infeription,
ing that it might be refpeftcd. Some o£
the populace, a ter killing this ribbon, and
declaring their refutation, not to vio ate
that barrier, obtained per million to carry
the of Madame Lamhalle under th<r
window of the queen, to (hew as they
said, " the dreadful result of all plots a
-1 ainft the people- "The crowd then
withdrew, and the Temple has not been
lince mei -iced.
In Paris,the women as usual, are among
the moftar.'cut in the display of patriotic
attior.s. From five hundred to a thoulihd
diotkdvring tic whok day, in public
pl-cea, p-eparing knapfacks*nd other ar
-1 'ties ftr the array. This 'srvire is eatir '.y voluntary cr'l t*sey purfV :♦ '-'/ftv
fteafflHcfs, wliic'j even the irequent ap
jrfaitlV: cf the popular donot divert. ...
wives of many refpei'tubfe perrons are thus
"cotinKC, Sept. 2.—" The emigrant
Freii. ii prir.i-os *.n ain or a,r, " ill ' J
fon-.wd adqfignr to hire ruffians to atteinpt
an iaatirectio?! at Paris, and to afi'uiunatc
Loiu tie i fall and >.i -'..Tilly. Sachaitc-p
they r.ur.gi v.-, by tw blame being tin owe
on tEe patriotic party, will roiile evcrj,
power in F.irrop; to attack Vranee, In i
general combination J and tliat e'■ri Lng
land will throw aiide the mafquc-, and be
come a party."
. Paris, Sept. 17—The enemy are now
pian.ii :g,by their emWaries, to plunder ant
let lire to Pans. By fomenting hatred be
tween individuals, they with to bring, a
bout a general ftfcte of confusion. Let 11
ee our main object then to prelcivt- •-
inculcate unanimity, by which we may
give liberty to }'urope. In this capaa,
are live 'or lix hundred men in th.
pa'y of the Duke of Brunf\vick and the
French princes. Severe measures are ta
king agai ift them, and their persons wil
fuon be k aired.
The Eugiiiii rainiftry have taken nn
i . n;mnp.ii to iev. to their country,!'.".: 1
Mr. Tlio n:i: Paine wn- tliepeculiar objea
;:kk':e:r are :.: : ■ but whether the idu r
tie, that were taken with his person anc
property did not as grefsly violate the
wnneiples or iheir constitution, as the inoii
d.iri :g doctrines ot me rc-publican \\ I*l.-1
J'knle-l'f, is aiqUe.Tioa likely to comeverj
i'pcedi'y to ik'ie. It certainly was not the
:e way of giv-ng the lie to his ob
ieftfons agalnft their fyfte'm.
' St. Sebaltian, (Spuin) Oft. I.—"Anar
jny of twenty thoufar.d men is expectec
lure ina t'cw d.tys; and large bodies oi
men, bslide;, are to be Rationed in the
neighbourhood of ulis place; their objeti
'is an: generally Known, batfuppofed mere
ly :o be in ' eackeefs in cafe or an invaiion.
Vad ..ambers ps French non-juring prieit:
are daily arriving here, generally destitute
01 every thing but the cioaths on theii
b ..a'i.,l find prot; ction and support
from the inhabitants.
Pari j, oept 23 —Tranquility is refioree
at Orleans, after the disturbances tliat had
like to Iv' vl taken place 011 account ot the
export.it.on ot grain. One cart was only
p. .1 jere iby :ae populace, and the drivet
kiii.'d. M„rtial i!tvv was then proclaimed,
V.iji-h re'tored order.
The intentions'of Spain with regard to
France are no longer doubtt ui, and there
is no doubt we ihall soon be attacked from
Ina: quarter.
it has been unanimously decreed in the
!Naftjp:ili Convention, that Gen. {vlontef
tni'ien Siou ,:1 b deprived ot his command,
and for having clandestinely
tranrmit'.edJt) tlie court of Turin a plan
of the deiiyfchrough which an invaiion ol
France be attempted ; and for re
porting the king of Sardinia's army to con
fiit of (.0,900 men, when it was 110 more
than thirty thousand.
Sept. 24 —-The enemy on the frontier
are in a date of starvation. Gen. Du
mourier has evacuated Chalons, by way
of precaution, as lie was certain ot more
t'peedy and greater success. He was well
fatbfied with his present position, when
the lall accounts came away.
The Swiss in revenge for the maflacre of
their guards 011 the 10th of Augnft, it is
said, mean soon to invade France.
Several of the royal jewels, &c. have
been recovered. It appears that many
persons of n ;te were concerned in carry
ing them oft'. Two men that were con
demned to death for being concerned in
this theft, have made several discoveries,
on condition of being pardoned. _
Nouvithftanding the Duke of Orleans,
with affected humility, has afiiimed the
name, Moniieur L'J galite (Equality) the
nation will never trust him, from a con
viction, that a man who has once been a
nobleman, or his veins infected with royal
blood, can never be a sincere friend to the
people.
London, Sept. 27.,—The empress of
Ru'iia, having obliged king Stauklaus to
renounce the new constitution of Poland,
and leaving him no alternative but that, or
to be overwhelmed with her forces, that
phiiofophical prince, and friend to mankind
has thought proper to comply, rather than
that his fubjefts (houki be itaughtered by
the forces of the northern barbarian. Of
the precise terms iniifted upon by the em
prel'o of Ruilia, we are not yet.fully ap
prised ; but we know,-with some degree
of certainty, that flie has not loft light of
private interest, and the future aggran
disement of her own family. Sheltates as
a principal article, thaU the succession of
the throne of Poland ihall be fettled'on
Prince Conftantine Paulowitz, second son
of the Grand Duke of Ruflia, and his heirs
male. This plan, if it takes place, of
vfhich there is little doubt, will free Po
land from the dread of being dismembered
by a second partition ; and if the coiiftitu
tion be nnt entirely annulled, but subjected
to certain modifications, the Poles, provi
ded their future fovere.gn imbibes their
political principles, may yet enjoy some
lhare' of tnat freedom which their present
enlightened prince wilhed to fecur-e to
them. They will, at any rate, have the
jJ. ; r ■■ f rcf. -In-, '■ - c f' he '
; iti* is of c>..:Oiie i'. not beheut
• ..isl'ortv.cs " til ir. to ity 5 and il- .t
i id fit y UJerrable t j c...i'.v..... their rom
ance, tney woiiivi na* t m-rt with .u< tiiut
support froin the getierekty c: it ri -
which was in their power us individosila to
give.
The Empress haviacgained her point o
ver Poland, will nov. be enabled' to join
the confcderacv termed against the i r. tJcft
nation. That this is her intention, ap
cears from her recent orders tothe r rencn
• barge des afiaires at Peterlburgh to qui.
her dominions as soon as pofiible. It ms;
be expe&ed, ther-. fore, that ihe_w;ll join
her troops to re-inforce thole of the > m
peror and the king <>t PrUhia, who have
hitherto been rather dilatory in their op?
rations, end who perhaps have retartiu,
them, either from ;.n apprehenlion oi e.e
desertion of their troops, or in hopes <;
this ai'iiflance. The moment, how ever, a
now arrived, when it becomes them to
prosecute mere vigorous cfpeci
ally as they may, a; present, attack;.' ran e
with more colour ol ju.V.ce than they
could have done afew months ago.
Pais, Sept. 24. The following is the
accouv-t given of the metnod the Kojai a
mil*: take to pass their tanefti the Temple
X.ouis XVI- takes a book, quits it, take;
another : makes notes with a pencil, ant
...••pi hns latin paifages to his (011, chtianj;
cfjjccially such paflages as are analogous tu
lii's present circumstances.
Maria Antoinette makes her chifdrer
read and recite dialogues with intonation:
and gestures, which fnew that listener:
w ere known to be at the doors. Withn
the laftfew days, the valet de chambre o:
the ci devant &uke de Ccigncy was at he;
door in the disguise of a Sans Cullort;.
Elizabeth teaches cyphering and draw
ing,to her niece ; afterwards each takes £
book, and then they have dialogues. __'t i;
family is very fond of dialogues, j he)
dine, and the dinner is always exqnifite.
After dinner, some parties at piquet anc
Tome stratagems to talk to the conumikn
:rs, in order to interrogate them, which
interrogations are intermittent. i he;,
then take up books, and sometimes -\valk
with airs of majesty, and with the greater
indifference as to little mortifications.
At night the wife of Louis XVI. read;
aloud ; amongst other things the letters o!
Cecilia ; sometimes flie reads of an un
happy count, with the daughterof a princt
of a great family, who lhares his unhap
pinefs, and will ally herfeii to him in 01 del
to revenge it- Enigmas are prepofed.—
Those of Mcreury are guelfed at. Equi
voques are made. They draw cards anc
ee sometimes rain, sometimes storm, some
times cairn weather.
l:i general they talkin cyphers ; ' I t'lvi
seen !. ; and 111 ; and I even 19.' lilt
widow of the Civil Lift said, four ilay:
lince, to her lifter Elizabeth. ' V 011 tolc
this morning, a great story with reflection.
Elizabeth replied, 'You would talk b)
multiplying 10 by 10.'
A decree has passed, that the asylum o:
every citizen {hall be inviolable during th<
night. Fromfun-fet to fun-riling no per-
Ton can be arretted except ior capita
crimes, and no execution can take_ place
without the prefenceof the jufticeol p act
of that diftrift.—Should these formalize
be violated, every citizen may use fuel
means of defence as are in his power.
The commons of Paris have addrelTec
the female citizens in the following man
ner i
Yetr.alt Citizens,
" The council-general of the common:
think it their duty not to leave vcur patri
otism in idleness. Your hands will no:
tiifdain to concur in the deliverance ol
t our country. Tents are necellary for the
tamp at Paris. These tents are not ye:
made. The time preiies. V. ill you re
ife to hallen the fafety of the capital ?
It is to the men that is reserved the talk
jf defending you—To you we give the
glorious offer of participating with them.
Hasten in preparing the tents and equipage
for the camps. It is by this means that you
will serve your country—that you will dc
yourselves honor, and contribute to the
t'alvation of the public cause."
In consequence of this, tens of thou
faiids of women, of all ranks, are in the
churches, and making tents, knapiheks.
gaiters, and other articles. And the v. crl,
is animated with songs sacred to liberty.
London, Sep. 2). Thelaft accounts iron
major Houghton, the undaunted traveller ir
the interior of Africa relate, that after avoid
ing a con "piracy formed againll: his life, anc
recovering from a fever, caught by sleep
ing in an African sorest, he was upon hi:
road to Tarubuctco. From thence he wil
proceed to search for the mysterious cit\
of Houffa, the population of which is faic 1
tu equal that oi London or Paris.
A young child has been presented to tht
Jacobin society in France, that repeated,
before them, from memory, the chaptei
of the Declaration of the Rights of Men.
A member of the alfembly took occa'ior
therefrom to propose a mode of educatioi:
for youth wholly inimical to tyrannical
and kingly government—and recommend
ed that the children of all citizens should be
obliged to take an oath, by every means in
their power through life, to defhoy ty
1 ants, wherever found.
13 the of France, whc.ver
»i?.s had ten children in lawful wecuoek,
-..hcther the be alive or n~t, .s ex
e united iroin tax.es
Several htir.drtusof French pr'tefts. arid
r.obili:have arrived at Jer-ey *vitn'..t tiui
ibrt::; o ;:t. oi' shun are reduced t'J
that decree of poverty-, ihst they are ooh
>i_ee'i to ts.-.cli ; :vr.-:h ana F.elles Leches o.
iix ib.us a i :hon,. and others are forced t.
hire themselves out as gardners. _
The Spaoi.h government have it in con
teinpkU'on to er.cour-tgc-n.eni.andfup
port to such French emigrants as may re
tire into the dominions of Spain, and \vil.
undertake to cultivate aa exteniive rrafi
of ground called sffci ra Molehos. Weleari
chat tlicy are to be supplied with neceifa
ries for a year, and to be furn.iued witi
materials for bniiding, and tools tor hui
baadry; but that, alter the expiration c:
the above period, they are to maiiitai:
themselves with the produce of the lands
which, however are to be exempted Iro..
all taxes for a limited number oi years.
T(/ the Editor of the National Gazette.
S i R,
FOR some time part 1 haVe breri rruct
tlruck with the different manner t
which the monor.rals and republican in cu
city speak of the 1 te commotions in Pa
ris, and of the probable ilTue of the Fren 1
revolution. The monocrats make no al
lowance for the relentments of a great
people, suddenly emerging from the accu
mutated oppressions of three or four hun
dred years. In their sympathy with th<
king and queen, "they feel for the plu
mage (so use one of the Hi iking simile
of Mr. Paine) but have no pity on th<
dying bird " To abate a little of tbi
sympathy with their royal cot/Jins, it jin,;
not be improper to ilate the folic
circumftanees :
That the history of the outrages com
mitted by the republican party in Franc
comes to us chiefly through the chant.;! o
iinglifh or Auftnan newspapers.
That the vindi&ive spirit of the Frenci
mobs was derived from the monarchy o
France, which knew no mercy towards e
ven the suspicion of treason.
That the outrages complained of, hav<
arisen from that ignorance among the com
mon people, which is an essential ingredi
ent in monarchy.
That the balance against monarchy i
almott beyond calculation with respeCt t(
murders. The whole" number or person
who have been killed by the mobs ii
France do not amount, from the mo{
piobable accounts, to more than 5000
where.-s the murders perpetrated by thi
monarchy of France, in cold blood, b;
means of the baftile,gaols, gi- bets, racks
wheels, gailies, &c. have amounted, at s
moderate computation, to J 0,000 a year
for several hundred years, and to 100,00 c
every fifteen or twenty years by means o
war. To encoutage the republicans o
our country to continue their fympathj
with their fufFering brethren, and (to uf<
the words of Judge Peters in his late ex
cellent charge to a grand jury) to im
plore the aid of heaven in their favor, ii
may not be improper to Hate the follow
mg circumstances :
That the late outrages in France hav<
effeftuaby removed the only came of tin
divisions in the nation, by dellroying the
sources ofjealoufy and treason.
That they have encreafed the ftrengtl
of the na.ion an hundred fold, by -annihi
lating the monar hy of the country
'1 iiat they have laid a foundation for £
great nation's asserting the original right
of men to govern themselves.
That they have furnilhed an illnftriou:
precedent to all the nations of Europe :
not only to extirpate wicked kings, but tc
annihilate those abiurd things called limit cl,
monarchies, and those most dangerous ani
mals called go-jd kings.
That the annihilation of the monarchy
of France has cut the only sinew of hope
to the American monocrat3 of cllablifhing
a limited monarchy in the United States ;
after it fliall please God to take our belo
ved Prefidtnt to himfelf, or after the pub
lic debt is unfortunately paid.
1 shall conclude this address by point
ing out the craft of the friends of heredi
tary power in our country : They have
lately discarded the idea of forming them
[elves into an aiitlocratic corps, but have
united their influence to prepare the mind;
of the people of the United States for he
reditary monarchy \y connecting as much
monarchical fpleudor, and as many mo
narchical forms as p. flible with the adtni
initiation cf the government, and by ex
citing the most gloomy apprchenfisns oi
tL: j dangers and cOnvuTions vliicli sre to
attend ti.c future elections of a chief rria
giftrate. A monarch, when thus folded
fnta. our country, can create as many no
bles as he pleases, and a house of lords,
when thus formed, will be better scented
than if they had f'prung out of a hot bed,
prepared.by tbemfelves. One word more,
and I fha.lL have done—The fiiends of
monarchy suppose kingly government to.
be necessary, because mankind arc too bafc
to bear a republican government. If they
mean themselves only when they use the
term b fc, we will believe them ; but if
they do not, it is no forced conftrii&ion
of a monocrit's principles to fay, that he
considers all the citizens of the United
States (himfelf excepted) as knaves or
Fools. SIDNEY.
Nov. 26.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Nov. 22.
The House having proceeded on, and a -
.1 opted the rcfolutions agreed to by t!.e
.ou:m tte'e of the whole 011 the Prefideiit's
"peech, they were referred to fele£t com
mittees, cxcept the lad resolution (refer
•ed to the Secretary of the Treasury) for
the redemption of the public debt, and for
re-iniburfiug the loan made at the bank
as the United States.
The Houii. then, in committee of the
whole, took into confider-ation, and debat
ed by paragraphs the bill pro\iding for the
registering and recording of Ihips or ves
sels—Aster some debate, the bill was re
ported without amendment, and ordered
to be engrofied for a third reading'oll Mon
day next.
A meilage was receivedf from the Presi
dent of the United States., with an abftrait
of a fupplementai y arrangement made by
him for carrying into execution the law
for collecting duties imposed on spirit dif
tilledfrom foreign and domestic materials
within the L : nited States ; also refpe&ing
the fub-divifious of the fitirveys, and an es
timate of the amount of cdrnpenfatious,
contingent c-xpences, and charges for col
lecting the aforefaid revenue , the amotint
of which was about 45,000 dollars. These
p 'pers were read, aild ordered to he print
ed.
The report of the Secretary of the Trea
sury, with the statement of the public ac
counts of the receipts and expenditures of
the public revenue was referred to a com
mittce of the whole House on Mc-nday
next.
TheiHoufe, in committee of the whole
refuii-i d tli conlideration of the petition
of Joseph Henderfon, naval pAv-matter of
Maifachufetu —which, after some debate,
was referred to a fele-Ct committee
Mr. Ames moved that a committee be
appointed to bring in a bill for allow ing
dollars, as extra expences of
Gen. Lincoln, Mr. Griffin, and t .ol Hum
phreys, while employed as commitloners
to fettle a peace with the foutheru Indi
ans. The motion was agreed to, and a
committee appointed.
A letter was read from the Secretary of
the Treasury. inclosing fundrv reports on
a great number of petitions referred to
him during the last session. Ad
journed.
Friday, Nov. 23.
The bill for re-imburiing certain extra
expencesof the commissioners tothe fouth
eru India u, was read the firft time.
Apet.tion was presented from the in
habitants of Tarborough, Washington, &c.
in North- 1 .. olina, praying that an altera
tion m ; ght be made in thepoft-road thro'
a part of that state ; which was read, and
referred to a committee on the poft-omce
law.
According to the order of the day, the
House, in committee of the whole, took
into confederation the bill received from
the Senate, for regulating foreign coins,
and for other purpose Sedgwick in
the chair—After agreeingto feveralamend
ments, the committee rose and reported
pr ogre fa.
A petition, praying the renewal of loft
certificates, was read and referred to the
committee on that fubjeft.
Monday, Nov. 26.
A memorial was read, from Capt. John
Manly, late of the navy, and referred to
the Secretary of War.—Several petitions
were read and referred tothe Secretary of
the Treasury.
A petition was presented from a num
ber of periens, matters and owners of ves
sels employed in the coasting trade, com
plaining of the high duties and heavy ofhee
fees to which they are fubjefted, as being
extravagant—and praying relief. The pe
tition was read, and referred to the com
mittee on the bill to regulate the coaftir<-
trade. f
The bill for compensating the forme 1
commiffioncrs, Messrs. Griffin, Lincoln and
Humphreys, to the Creek Indians, was
read afecc/ld time,referred to a committeeof the whole, and ma J:; cf the
day for to-morrow.
Tlvebill providing for the fagifterfrig awl
recording of {hips <■ nd velid- %va? brought
in engroiicd, read a third the blanks
filled up, and ,pafied.
The Haute then, in committee of the
whole, according the oiv.er ot the qh- .
took into eonlideratioa :•-* b ivr rege
lating ion>n coins, an-1 for
fes. Sundry proposed mpemdmenjs were
reported, agreed to, and adopted. ahe
bill Was ordered a third reading to-tnoi
row; _ _ f
A petition was read. from Warner
flin, on the fubjett i i negro {lave<), am
recommending it.; abolition Oiue»eo
lie on the table. , c
A motion was msde, that t.ie Ci
the lioufe be directed to purchaie, tor the
life of the House t J Repreftves, e
parate maps of the United StaV s. ...<d tie
individual Hates—Ordered to tie en the ta
ble. _ r ,
On motion, a resolution was paiieci, as
follow, :
Resolved. That the commviiToncrs ior
fettling accounts between the li mted States
and the individual Hates, report «..»e »ai
when th°' will be rc~.. "• to mr.Ke a nru.i
report; and whether .l. t; e xns re
main to prevent such final rope ri.
PHILADELPHIA.
Novemsek ;8.
The persons enpointed by the legiflaturr
of the f ate of New - ort; for eieciors of
President and Yice-Preiident of the United
States, are as follow : Sainuil Ofgood v
'Edward Savage, Stephen Warii, Johnßay,
Jefie Woodhu.l, pa\'id van T-, ef , Jdhan
jies Bruyn, Voikert Veeder, Abraham:
Yates, Samuel Ciarae, and /.branain . en
Eyck.
On the thirty-firfl: of October was expe
rienced at Wilmington, N. C- one o, the
molt violent gales of wind known tor ma
ny years. Several vefl'els were c.rove a
'fhore at Brunfwick, the Flatts, am. at
Wilmington. Ail the pilot boats at the
fort were beat to pieces, or drove vei 5 -a.
above the high water mark, the tioe ha
ving risen more than five feet above tne
level of the spring tides.
m3s;e was done to the wharves at \v 11-
mington. many trees torn down, hemes
much injured but,happily, r.o i ves 1011.
The persons chosen for elefteis ci Pre
sident and Vice-President o. the United
States in the (late of MaO.aciiuiett'. aVf as
follow—Azor Otne, Francis Dano, In
crease Sumner, Thomas Dawe*. - emu 1
Hoks- *) • •»:
Dwight Foster, Thoinpfon J Skinner, E
benezer Mattcon, Walter Spooner, Sulo
r,on Freer"an William Seaver. Daniel
Coney, Peleg Wadfworth, Nathaniel
V7 t -lh' "art of the returns of Repre
fenVati'ves to the next Congress from the
fame Rate : Fisher Ames. Beni. Goodhue,
Samuel Dexter, jun. Artemas YVard, 1 he
odore Sedgwick, Peleg Cofr.n, David
Cobb.
The following paragraph is copied from
the Portland (Matfachuletts) Eadern He
rald, of the 12th inftanc •> ' ship has
lately arrived at Wifcalfet in 29 days from
I mrland. She brings an account that the
Duke of Brunfwick had advanced so iar
towards Paris, a:, that he had filtered the
armies of France to furrour.a h.m ; and it
was expected that he would never be able
to return—without their leave.
" Nations that are awakemngfrom their
flumbcrs, ar ! are anxious to emerge trom
that (late of uncertainty and mi ery into
which they have b-en plunged by tanati
cifm and tyranny, ought to enoeavotr
thoroughly to comprehend the principal
idea?, contained in that faiutary, that ia
cred word, Conllitution 1 -This wora,
v.-hether understood in a good e.r an evil
f.-oiV, always has a proiiig.ous influence
upon the deftinv of mankind. Ihe eon
fiitutic.i c? a government :s frenuenuy
3" red to the coallitntion of the-hum.m
bod • -.nd the abettors of a: iIW .cv are
fond of telling us that as there is a head,
so t!:ere be feet —' Tins is douotlcis
true, in one lenfe ; -but would you, a.ei
{ieurs Aritlocrats, always be at the heac.
and make the people eterna.ly t.ieteet.
It is the'people that give life to the ccnUi
tr.tion of anv country, as the blood that in
vigorates tlir body, mud, for that pnrpofe,
pass through every part thereof, ar.cl be
found in al! by turns.
" Take heed, ye friends of ruth, that
ye do not inifmid jriland the coaitituticn
of nature, which is complete ; which
move's—and fnall move-ar.d move eter
nally, holding up the pattern of the greal
firft cause to all true legislators—above ad.
be particularly careful nt to confound uiu
Jtion of n.-tare
coniVitutional modes or acts of human go
•. at -a fae.ies ot g-. vernment \ i.. -.
ha ever been various, according .o ch
education, manners, a mumpl-ct,
of peribn .1 intcrcfts, abitf- • 1 -*-d by
time, and plans adopted by ignorance, b)
idolatry, or-by in Ccndorcet.]
Mr. Will Kim of Auguua in
Georgia, propria to the puolic <»n -----
■ rove,.-I_-lic u,' -■ ■ ■ it aa a, wiaia
by, irtfteafi of fro:n So to 90 itrokes 1.1 a
riiinu'.'e, it- wi 1, iYcra'che aiterationi n-a
:;.is ;i"'nr.. 155 ..roiic- 1" -i---y 1 ■— 1
He has alio invented a method oi cu.i
.a 1 .aa '' all. Y.aiarcby aal able
i;, :, ;.: of a 5 feet ui c,le ipace of an hour—
th/ p'.i'.iip, t > iai't as long as any otner
wooden pumps whatever, and not wti£.i
lag more than 2cclb. when complete.
[.From the Harrijbvrgh Qraite, of Novem
ber 19.]
t( A gentleman oi veracity that leit ]ve
troit the jotli of QSober, a.sd an lved hetc
i.ili v. l mi-,t:i .t the vail leap.: -•
brought to the garrlions of Detroit an*
Mi, t i;; -, ,T a.irir. J.tenii 1 ia". aa o.
the fritii i ccua >ltl ta* fc po 3 1 - p--»
,'c.iion, u< ;?{i <-.r.:v.ci!ed to give them uj;
;■ y iorc-a ; ' a conflant and ri.gu.cM
lommnuication with the Indiana 1 t-opi
up, by which they are iupphed with tvc.)
neceilary in abundance ior carrying on th<
t . j}j» tribes in tontui v.tn t.!-
United car . ua.:a?rllundirfg the ci:<poii
tio:i of lhe A.n :no::r.: v. .:iv iorp-act.
were r 1 iidc, to came noon teriTin r - r~'
concii ion; for'this purpolc, a cran-ii
ivas to have been heid on the ift of O clo
ser, at the V. aniees-tc.wn, aoout • 0 urne.-
•rom Detroit; but the determifffflioa o!
.lie .our. ii had not arr.scd whentru £■-*'-
fleman left that place.
He further fays, that it was the general
loinion, that the Indians would ma.ee
jcace on no other terms, than fixing t .
jDUiid.irles of the frontiers the
;ourfe or the Ohio. He had hoind
;onvifr*3:ian \wth Co. Erandt, on t
übjetl, who, with ab mt thirty warriors
jf the Six nations, were on their way to
he council; but were del i/ed'tome t.—
jy the iac'.tfpolition of CcJ *;»»-
iy of the warriors or the diuerent U'w;-,
ie was informed, were w'.hmj tiuttne
j-.:un line fcionld i>s so run r~ -•» m
;iude the towns of alliopo'.is and M in
jiica. and :h? country immediately defen
dant on th- n; but it Vv '* l f he
former opinion vl'ould prevail ia tiie coun
.U. •
[ From a North-Carolina paper.]
The ele&ion of the Prelident and Vice-
Pref'ient of the Un.t-d States, it :.• expec
ted will engage the earliest attention 'A
oor legiflaiitre—the dignity of the state,
and the interests of the foutherri Hates, are
rj i. y conctrnecj in tiii> buimefs Th
can be no division as to the President, in.-
fVir. Adams and Governor Cliruoi _i»e
rn^«n.o;v rt cs m tb- as
Southern nates as proper of the
public ("ulfrage—the conduct of the present
Vic?-Prefident is so completely covered,
iv the fetrrecy and darkneisoi the tranfic
:lons of t!>e Senate, from the public eye.
that we have no fafficient opportunity 01
forming a fatisfaftory judgment of him a ;
a \ ice-Prefident —Governor Clinton has
been long di.nnguiuied as a mail ot tali .its
and patriotism.
Extract of a lette" from New-York, No
vember 23.
" The choice of eladtors for President
and Vice-President of the Unit d :v ,
in this rtare, having falLn._ wsthont sv
ceaiiion, uponch e.inne;:..y repub
lican, caßnOt but be highlv agreqabk to
th friends of equal in ail pi - •
the Union, who for a long time past have
cbferved v ith regret the hlsnt progress o.
a certain set of well known ambition 1
ch racrer. towards the great trieti
wi aes, a monied ariaoci acy. iiiecc-i
---titution of this state U by far too repuul.-
can for cKaraders of such a cair, who, i
forefse, will never be it reft,_'tdi oy
mean" cr cthrrthey can give it a fort or a
twiit toward:.- monarchy ; which >;at usft
one principal end to be answered in pulling
do v'p the Governor, if tr.at great and w r
thv ob'eel could have been fuccefdefe ac
-.p i' ] yjd One would clunk a ri*- n n.uii
in cvL'; v free coantry is in ci cap.i-iiy. to
foetid is time in a way perfectly agreea
ble to hinifi-ii, and yet Inch as v. omc. liof
injure t.;? well-being of his ney.b-Hir.~--
(' .if•:>r 1 unteiy, tl\e nnittd*, v - 4i , r
fpeaki ig, is otherwise, 'and no foonei 10
feiftain people, by cunning or good luck,
aihaft exorbitant wealth, than the firrt
tliiiv" they think of is mountuiii. o:\ c.:e
li.obtders"of their fellow creature^
while they harrafs them almolt out of
i'.lence. fooiiflily conceit theiufelves a fu
periorrace of beings "
f'xtraS; of a letter from an eminent
in Liverpool, to a gentleman in Balti
more. dated 'aepttn ber _6, 1 a --
'• A good deal oi the crop 01 giain in
the northern counties is yet on the grourt..
and so very unfavorable has been the '.vca
ther, that a coniiderable part of the har
ve!thas b-en much injured I—» ha ac.-
vancd the prues of prime wheat K. -J.\
,v f, oer -cibs and iromthe pic..-» - >
pearar.ee with refpeft to our w n ha. vt -'
ofirl he state of European politics (a- re
ibedinc- France) we think it po'llble
the wheat may be aduutted here at tl*v
10-.vji'l" at or,;- n?Jtt.qiiar:?r'y period,
v/ li. .3 i ttli "ri j v_*:ia "<d
:h : . :;.o; be the ensh,'there »•
roStalaivy oi Its bein~ so on th.
: , :: . cr. a-V ;i i There a; .• en.fairer
A.. - *. to pfbeeed to .Vaierica to
i„ i .1 , ..nat it• •f. obable that
■ i.--. :,. . :r: ;hat a:.a.L wul turn to aa
ceua:. :
' '.""ACT of an Eftiraate. of the ex
, . ! for the Civii.Liit oi the SJiii
-tates, together with the incident.il
ca ihur at •exjjc.ltea Oi the U.ver<.i
tLjjertmeht.; and ottices, for the year
■ .os c ported by the secretary of the
'!'re '.fury to die iaoufe oi I'Up/elenta-
C'.-.a
r. ..dent 7 .-; .'Jary, 25000 dollar: — . ice-
Fv .»<!* .it'sditto, S Joo—Oief Juici e oi tut
U: ...d Slates, /;oco—Five Alienate jju.ges
• . -,o dol.. oac.v j-i i! .L. —-'unoui.t
fiUrtesto the judges oi tiidfevera! diitrici
•4 ttc U ii.ted States. 21/00 do4lars-~A
m u.it of ccuu to ti:e meuioei s
of the Senate, Houie of Keprefentative.,,
.. .: their oliiccri, 143'. 59.'. dola —Treasury
partment, 51,050 d-stiars—Departm.-i.t.
j fcico doiLiv.i—Bepaitnnpt ox war,
: ; , doll ira—'.oard oi co.iniilliom ;rt
••-'tUe fetti !i;ent of accounts b-'tween the
"r.ad St.it, ; ant" individual hates, 1 3,3,00
J.a'dars—'Amotant of competitions to tne
.j-Gtfccer, do.* 13 ii 'S ~s° d-liar
■avernors salary jut'jes' Salary, coui
ausfationr. to tae other oincera, and con
ices or th-j government of tlu
t. .-r.to. v. 1 i,cc? dollars-Amou-it
-,f pensions', intiudir." that of the Baron
- -auben, 5267 dollars 73 cent* —lor mci
.; ',t.U and qontiugent'expenftr. > dative to
j rjivii-liit .■-.labiuhviieut, uallait
~ .-,m .— Total of the .inmate oi ex
pires for the civil-lilt ior 1793.
dollars, and 39 cents.
\dditional eftimrte for making good de
;: truies for the support of the-civil-U-'-
: übitinuient ; ior aidiag tne fufld appio
•> atcd for the payment oi ce tarn olhceit.
jf the courts, jurors and witaefles ; tor
support of'iclst-boui'fcs 5 an:! lor tat
jTtbliih-nent of ten cuturs, aad tor ot'iet
•*. ii'pofes— l'otal 92,599 dollars, 66 v-ciits.
"ieneral edimate of the eripenfes of the
•• department :or the year 1793 —P ; 7 °-
f'-0 le'>ion of the United States,
a U:Ci^—SubJiiceiice, '~ 5
l it.s — r'or l "... 34.85' d uiars—Cloatill.ig,
1 • a,coo dollar.--—Equipment > for cavalry,
j dollai s—rlorfes lor cay airy, j_ooot.ru
la--—Bounty donars.-i-etea:i-e
... vteition of the froatierr. by the m.u-.ia,
jcodoliai'o—Hofpital d-part-aent aj 000
. :.. M Quarter maftsr'j dspartme u,
too.bccdoiilrs —I.uiicai oepai-L.:'.a r -.T s >..r c
doUars—Ordnansed-.p.u tint at. jsctol
.ars 32 cents—lnvalids, 8?,245 dollars -ii
L - He of the building, occiipi- d to.
the war-dike, &c. 1,660 doilars 66 cent:
—Conti agencies of the war departp.-iu.
3,000 dollars—Total expenlt, of tiu:
ivar departuientfor 1793, i,i7i,7'9 d3"ar
vad 5 ..eats.
Coraoaratlv? 1 itement of expenditure ant.
revenue to the eiid'of the year 1793' & °
reported by the Secretary of t.ie ! iea
!'aiy to the rioufe of
EXPENDITURE.
Amount from the coir. ' e-a e
rfient of taeyear 1791,10 the
end of the year i 79 2 < ri f
ted in, a report to trie i-ioale
or Representatives of the Dols. Cts.
a;d of January laic - . 7, 7.
Additional appropriation for
the war department per act
of the and of May i' ..a. tear
reihng a further fuiripi mo
ney ior the protecUoii of the
frontiers, kc. - - 673,500.
Appropriations by an act .of
rheSthofMay 1-92 ,intitl..d,
63 ast makihg certain ap
pjv oriations tiiereia fpeciti-
Cff-' - - - 84.4.97-9 c
"liouies rcquh'ite by eftiir.ate
for the cur/eat lervice of
r , 03 . - - 1,616,-85. ic
Intt. eft 01. tin public debt:or
the fame ye ir - - 4.
Total expenditure 12, io,', 1- 5 j
Ways and Me ns.
Tact prcdu-'t of dutie. on im
ports and tonnage for the
year ! -91. a. f- -rta.r,. d 3,403v19S- ■<-
fiittofor the year 1792, as tf
tbrated - 3,900,000.
D-vtto for the year 1-93, 4,coc,c eo.
Ditto of duties on home made
'Vrits *br one hi>if year of
I 791 . " * " 150.000.
I ato for 1772, - - 400 c.co.
O.tto for : 9 - - 400,000.
"urpi'j- wli'k'i will probably
remain unexpended of the
funis appropriated ior trie
war department :or 1-9-1 14c coo.
Toielv'-ys ;aa:o 1; a-
Fo, the National Gazette.
M• • 1-':: ' ' " U
A OUtKIS'i wiflicis ro be in-' rn: J
Whether 'any intimacy'exjlls between s'r.b- •
lius of iJ-& aad-CkUiHu.; of 1792 ? I- so,
.vh-tber t.'. ay-have or have not iou;p red .
iiocej refp-Ciing the vbi-rai.er.ti iVrr.
revfon ? -is C. tuh'-i;. was in pel'dhon of
mforuiatio.i in 1 Sy, v hUh is 1:0\v 1 .d to
aab: :i Uiguia on x slr jenerfon's cliai?.i:er,
v.iittnev it was. or why it was not com
niunicated lo hi . f.aend Pubiiu; ir. iylt '
Mr, Jeherfon was honorably ment-.ohed
by Pubiius in 17£8,- as a jreat po.uical au
tndrity—an encomium m hick no otner in
dividual 6f America ha; received hem the
difecrriing psn of Pubiius.
In eh nter 43, p:.o,f 104. of the fettivl
pnrt of thahedcralht, Jar. jciurfon is ;I:ws
ip.iken of, in treating of the : .-'t
.. hi. a requires a reparation of tiie d«p;.; •
ai nts of pawer—'• The firit exairpl-e ->
that oi the ilate of \ irghiia, a Hateviru-ei ,
as v.ehave seen, has exprtf Iy declared :n
its coniiitution, that the three great de
partments ough, not to be intermixed. - •
The authority i. s .tipport of it is Mr; J a:-
ferfon, who, besides his other -advantagf s
for remarking the operat'n :i o!' the rev rn
ment. was hinifelf the chiei magitirate of
it. In order to convey fully the idea;- v. 1211 j
vvhiJh hi* experience had iinpreffed hirJv
011 this fubje£c, it will be r.eceflary to quote
a pafl'age of some length from hi* very lc
tereiling notes 011 the state of Virgii la,-',
(page-,195) and in the next chapter, p v.a
so-,, he is again spoken of in tbe follow
ing terms, " The author of the
the Hate of Virginia, qjndted in tl:-e lafv pa
per, has fuujoiccd to that valuable work,
a draught< f a eoniiitutiOn which had been
prepared in order to be laid before a con
vention expected to be called in 1 S3 ty
the iegiflature. fop the eftabiiihn ?nt cf a
confutation for that cbmmonwc >lth. Vhe
plan, like every thing from the fame per.,
narks a turn of thinking Original, c.orapre.-
iieniive, and accurate j aad is the r.icre
worthy of attention a-; it equally dfplays
1 fervent attachment to republican so. tn
me it, and an enlightened view of tbt dan
gerous prepeniities again which it ought
to be guarded One of the p..c ntiens
which he propofgs, and on which he appears
jltimateJyto rely as a pallad:>,iii tu t".e
weaker departments'of power rg-'inftthe
nvaiions of the stronger, is perhi p- :f 0 -
jethsr his ovn and as it hninedh te'y re--
atesto therfu'ojecc of oi-.r prcftat enquiry,
Slight nOtXO be O'VerllJoil.d "
The Qaietid conclude ; that the defer
ence of char:.iter af.ribtd t >M:. jelt-- > t-'ix
by Pubiius of 188 and l. itulkts or 1 z
(who has said with true Jefu.tr... 1 d<-
ty, that he was not •• h> in of-ict. !< ■
ed npon the fame and af.ri. . unit; :r.::ty of
conduct, ari e from one of these tv. o 11-
i'es, or par hap. > frttm bqth»ijli d
.nbwii r;ga>ttfo.'. r./vh'. v i_7 *,
was not so otfenlive to Pubi.iw, as it 1 .s
aow become to Catiillu. <Mj 2 The
other is, that tire people 1 per
fe.yering in the opinion which Paohus then
entertained of hfc greatrc fc, conceive- him
to have better pretentions to a cerc ;.n
liigh office in the United States, in caie of
ica ident ~ than Pubiius of 17-8 or C;>
■ illus cf 1792. An aaperta. 1 . e Hai-!-.
iias just remarked, that all thrs c:at:n;ny,
aiif-reprcfentation, an:'v r; 1
vtr. Je&'erfon, will produce no eft'ei. upon,
rhe opinions of the peeve or Avv ..
irticularly when tifne ihall have perform-- ,
edhis-ufuai olfice» and prefentc-d to j
.vorld a naked state of facts ; a fecOsd'..as
remarked,that the calnmn.: tcrsor i>lr. je... ■
fjrfon couldnothavehad t.;e / ear of . e:' be
fore their eyes; a third, that they rmin have
been promoted and iniligated by the De\ 11,
.1 fourth, that there is full ev,J..ne- r . -
liceprepenfe'j audit is net doubted
a. .r tbe . t jury *./; al /; ;ra • ai
render verditt agaiuft the calpr.ts—O ••
PY. M^v
<_st &Darg<ciin !
For C.\ t E HUNDRED DOI.L.IRS,
WILL B E SOL D,
A Private LIBRAR f,
Of two hundred and tivcniy- ever, v> :umes,
(.Chiefly tireek and Lat::f;)
Among - a.eh ate ; feveial fc re" and vas
able editions o! the Classics.
Further particulars may be learned, on
periona! application at No. 26, ivar-ilrc'ct.
TO BE £ OLD.
BY pub! c /aie, on Fridav the .h of Df
c«rrii>f 1 uext, m th.re o'clock P,M. >t the
house of Mafecl Mills in R< aj? Tv/ .We|-
TorleJ, Cumbtiianu"county, a h;.ul'e and loi c.t
Ground, laic the property cf /Anar.i-.s Savre, de
ce..ied, containing about riine fitpatcJ a
place kno-A-n L> tlu- nsur.c of S* re's cT&f -roacis,
Welt- jersey' 1 , Cumberland county. 1c is in a ve
r, plentiful piit 'be cou.j.r;y, rrd
very bkwiUaU) f.. ja:c-i ar n-rth wtfft comer
croifs roads, Ic is pa; ticu-arly well fit
ted for a (toie, o r 2 tracieTrn-in oi any defenj».ion»
M re need nor be Ijid in dtfjci ;Uing 1 ,ICC >
a;, it is prefuriK'd any ptrfon to
vitoUlu fl.il l-e the prtn.il: j Terms o( ■>-
1 : ; to be k:.. . i. at 'he time and pia-ce
•f" sale — The laic to fc:; m. oe by
LIONARD SAYRE.
Expcator to rhe estate of j ed;
. ?.i.. .'.792, " w cwTo the Editor of. the l Tational Gt.sette.
"V* 017 will oblige mauv of you;' sub
A fc. i">trs by rc-publilliing frcm r
Claypoole's MAIL, the th ce different
pieces that have appeared i.2 that paper,
vti .tiveto tilt visit ot'the Stipervifor otthe
Escife to the v/eftern counties.
NUMBER I,
P'TTSB'URG, Oaober 13
A Correfpoudetit thinks it no rnal! dif
grace to th police of this country, that j
superior officer of government is obligee:
to come ii.to it in oifguife, as was'he c.if
lately with Mr GEORGE CLYMER,
o' Phila itlphia,'he Supervisor General vj
Kxafe for the lla'e of Pennsylvania. Un
til he carne to Bedford, to prevent any ru
mour of h s approach, he j»-.iF d for Gen
Knox, about to pay a visit to the Wedern
Polls; which by the bye mi ght not be a
riifs for the minifler of war, tiiat he mi ht
the better underfland he geography ol
the country, if poffihle ; fiom Be fore
Mr. Clymer took ihe name of Mr. Snith
until lie came to M'Derinet's in tht
Glades. There leaving his horse for hi:
ieivant to '-■ring on at liis leisure, he him
i'elf m tinted the fe.rvait's horse, a d rode
behind the p rtmanteau, as the waiter oi
M'Dermet, who accompanied him tc
Pjttiburg, undei (landing him to be a pay
master co.i ing in disguise with money c
payoff tlie troops. On the journey no
thing material happened, save at Civatt's
where acting as a servant and ru bine
down M'Dermet's horse and his own, he
was ill treated by the holt'er who caller
him an ill looking ellow, and fatd he dii
not ki.ow how to rub down a horse
Arrivin at Pit fba >(, nd putting u,
a-t the sign of the Indian Qj en (AittUew
WaJo i'i,) wearing a douched hat io a.
to paU for .in ordinary person, he thenex
Jnoming by times wen to Head-Quarters
at the Qnrter M--ler General s, and flai:
unil eve nig, when returning to the ta
Tern, accompanied by the Commander ii
Chief to protedl him with his presence
some officers being in the hotife afte
night, contrary to gener.il orders, and i
bting wli f,;ered th t general Wayne wa
doming, a hu-ly-burly, overturning chairs
k: enfhed, which the hi e'vif >r mifta
jkng fir a banditti about to f.i Jy out upoi
him, retreated to head Qj-iriera. Th<
riex-t night hefent for his horses and chan
ged his lodpngs to the Bear ; but 11
tnnfpiring that he was an excise officer
the landlord not thinking it fate to enter
Ui him, wss obliged t,»,give him a him
and again he went to Head Quarters, 1111
ti! a secret lodging was provided for him
at Major Kirkpatrick's, the brother-,in
law of the deputy excise officer for this
diftrift.
When an outrage on the dignity of tht
United States is come to such a head ai
this, that a gentl man in the execution o:
his trull is ieduced to fuc humiliating
circum fiances, it is high time to look a
bout and a&, who governs, theiabbleoi
the laws?
NUMBER 11.
Mr Clymer's an fiver to the above.
THE conduit of a revenue-officer o
the United S: ites, on a late joumej
through the western-country of Pennfyf
vania, being' grossly misrepresented in t
Pittfbu Gazette-, as that he palled for
a personated other charedters, &c
to avoid being known ; .he begs leave tc
Hate some incidents, freely fj.,oken of by
hir.r. when in that town, which mull hav,
given birth to the said m freprefentations
H brought his own po tmanteau, wi h
his cloth s and pap rs, into Pittlburgh,
late on a Sunday night, leaving his f'cr
vant a tew miles behind, to follow in the
morning, w th a horse .disabled from the
loss of a fore shoe. The servant, after
finding a smith, arrivd th: next morning
about eleven o'clock, am) not till ; fter his
mailer had drefTed, and paid a visit. This
was not to ast the servant, for which
there could be no occasion so near Pittf
bnrgh, and where the people are reputed
to b the moll temperate of any in that
country Being in company with Mr
William M Dennot of the Glades, he ap
peals, in this inflance, to him.
The name of Smith, was once mifiak
enly applied to him. He recollects, par
ticularly, to have mentioned the occasion
to Mr. ifpey, of Bedford. He had au
nprn introduction from Mr Efpev °n
. Ir. M'Deftnot, withwh m he rrave h '
about fisty miles, and docs not kt;ow or
believe, "thai h's name was one? )t!k • ! to
the follt try road between the Glades '.n i
Pittfbargh.
Ki>iirlt lodgings at thetown of Pittfb'ngli
iv re taken in. the night, and takert With
out choice ; but b ing represented, an-1
really found to lie infuitable, they v. ;r;
immediately changed for others, take 1 ) ir
the company of General Wayne ; botl:
these were in public houses. In the 1 ttei
he wi.ui 1 have continued altogeth r, lia I
not Major Craig, (not Mr Kirkpatrick'
politely prefled him to take a bed at hit
house, which he declined until within twi:
>r hree days of his departure from thai
town.
These changes were not made with s
view to privacy, which he did not afifeil
n any thing ; on the contrary making
l formal communication < f ail his public
ibjeCts, to moll of the principal inhabi
:a ts of P:i:(burgh, as he considered
:hem, afle ibl 4 for that purpose ; and
dp; ;ired in all parts of that town in co
pany and alone, at a!' hours from 7 in the
rn rn' guru.l ioa't night :—for this he
may appea' to all P ftfburgh.
As to the tale o his personating Gen.
ilnox, it is only to be accounted for ir
! his way A gentleman of the name o!
Knox, cle.k in the office of the Secretary
of War, charged with money for the paj
f the army, pissed through the coisntrj
on the fame d lys, though by anothei
roue, & was mistaken for the Secretary o:
War.
He does not pretend to dirtemble his
ipprehenlions of danger to his person, ir
paffi ig through that Country ; a d.ingei
which would have jultified to any one m
his predicament, any devices what ver tt
efeape the rage of a people vehement }
excit d against the authority of Cong ek
in the inllance of the Etfcile, and inlli
>,at d to a ilate of adlusl infurtjsncy a
ainft the government of the union, open
!y, by a dangerous confederacy, compofec
if al 110 ft all t e magiflratt s, ot er pub
lie officers, and clergy ; but covertly, ai
is pprebended, though with greater ef
feft, by a character in Weflmoreland
no re influential than all the relt A
country, where some persons c ricernec
in the evenue, had been barbarously an-,
ignominioufly handle 1, by bands of arm
ed meri, and wher , as is in proof, ever
a military officer of the United States
ha ing but a flight and accident 1 con
nexion with the excise, had been
tlireatened, by men of some conlideration
with being scalped ; where the prefiden'
>f a state circuit court, expelslv gave a:
one reason for declining to take the depo
lit ions of wi nefles, pointed out to him it
the cafe of a riot, the " odium" to b<
incurr dby it. And finally, whe e tin
faint animadversions of the state court:
upo offences committed a ainft the lawi
of the union in such cases, have afFordet
a real encouragement to th m. Hethinh:*
to have adventured t all through a coun
try so 1* cumltanced, was more hazardou
perhaps, than to have taken an honorablt
chance in an Indian war.
The protedion of an escort, which hac
been ordered to Bedford to take chatg
of a sum of money, deftinedfor the o
the -roops, was ut in his option, u.iafk d
of which he did not avail himfelf. T i:
escort was threate ed with an attack oi:
t l 'C road, upon his account ; his coming
bei g exp tied : Cornet Taylor is appeal
dto here His friends, Mr. Woods a d
Mr Efpey, of Bedford, urging iiiin 1: .t
ut keep with the escort, their advice was
followed.
General Wayne, without the knowledg,
of this offair, and befote he had mention
ed his own apprehensions, ordered party
to rittend his return The party had or
iers to proceed with him as far a-;
Bedford, but was difmifled after palling
the liifh settlements of Wellmoreland,
forty miles short of Bedford.
These circumftanees (h w, that danger
was contemplated by others as well as by
him
He concludes with faying, that finer
the day he put h's hand to the declaration
of Independence, none have been f > base
as to accuse him of any want of spirit in
thediieha ge of any of his public duties
or trulls
[_A r o. 3, tu II appear in our next,']
i< °r sale, at the printing office, afw copies
of thejirjl -ooiume of the National Gazetie.
': IT ARLES BITTERS,
AO 120, South Mi)kri near Fourth Jireet,
Has received h'o ...i \ ,v oh, "ad nia-
HUi red by Lot MerkeL,
A large and c leral ailbrtiuent of
Musts and 1 ippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
Great Coits Gap.-, Milti a.icj Gloves lified
with ~ huh he will fell,
Wrtolef-ile and R.-tail,
at. the lowest prices.
Nov. 24. 2a\vtf
Bank of the United States.
Phi 'adelphuL, Nflo 20th 1792.
rHF. ftcckhol.dero of the bank of thi
United itites are hereby informed
that according to the statute of incorpa.'a
tion, age;e.-al elqclio.l for twenty-five Di
reitors will b,e held, at the bank of the
United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the feveuth day of Januarj
next, at ten o'clock in the forenoon.
And pursuant to the eleventh section oi
the bye-laws the llockijolders of the faic
bail'; are hereby-notifie<i to assemble in ge
neral meeting, at th-.s fame place, or
Thnrfdjy the eighth da v of January next,
at five o'clock in the evening.
By of the Prefidentand Directors..
JQfIN KEAN, Caihier.
WANTED,
A Journey-man Book-binder,
To go to Can 1 fie.—
A PERSON who is capable of petfirmin;.
neat Binding and Lettering, will receivt
wages. The patcicttlars to be ascertained b
Li WIS WEISS, Jifquire, Arth-ftreet, 159, Phi
aldelphia. Nov.. 13. 41, raw
GJQGRA PdV.
Mathew Carey.
Refpe&fully lubnaits to the Citizens of the\£n-<
ted Sratos, the so • !o •.ing
PROPOSALS
FOP. PUBLISHING BY SU 31SCR%TfON,
An AMERICAN E-OITION /
Guthrie's Geography
J M 1' r u v D.
ofiwhich- ttoefe *re the terms :
"XT be pubJi/hed in 4$ weekly numbers,
i each containing three fh.cets, or twentj
four pages, of letter press, in quarto, printei
with new types on fine paper.
11. In the course of the work; will be deli
vered about thirty large maps, of the fame fi£<
as thole in the European editions viz f mod oi
them fr&et maps on post paper* '
BtJlch s the maps in the- BritiJA editions,
this work ivtil contain maps cj- as many of thx
United States as can* be readily procured, executes.
by tic Left engravers in tb.2 United States,
111. The priceofeach number will be a quar
ter doilar, to be p«*id 011 delivery.—ad
njance requi, ed.
IV. The, work will be put to press as soon a
700 copies are lubferibed for.
V. Subfcribcrs who disapprove of thi
work, on the publication cf the three firft num
bers, are to be at liberty to return them, an<
lliall havs their money repaid.
VI The fubferibers' names (hall be prefixed a
patrons of die undertaking.
Perhaps thsrc is no fciencc naore cnteft^ji f inj
anJ ufeful than geography. It reveals the ~dii
■ overies of travellers—(he remarkable curiofttir
•f all countries, in nature and art—the fiiuati
on of provinces, cities, towns villages, rivets
and mountains—in fine, the hiflory, manners
cu'toms, laws, forces, revenues, and governmcn
f different nations.
it is an old obfeivation, that " there is not .
son or daughter of Adam, but has some concen
lath geography," and lha. a knowledge of th
Icience is indilpenrlable towards the (tud\ of h:l
fury with advantage o» fatisfa&ion. Indeed .
man unacquainted with ir, cannot difcoujfe -u
the nmoft ci mmon newlpaper topic of the da>
•viihout betra.ing hii ignorance.
So much for geography generally. With ref
■ett ,to the pri'fent et it fuffice to remaik,
hatGuchrie's Geography has been long ackiiuw
edged to be the best in the Englith language,}
lowever, the account of America in it lias, hom
bvious reasons, been very erroneous and deiVc
;ive. The errors of former ecinons will, be cor
eded, and the defers supplied, by gentlemen oi
loiiities, who have engaged to fuperjntend this
indertaking, and to avail themselves of all the
"formation that can be procured, to render it
.lie most complete edition extant.
The Printer earnestly solicits the support 0'
is fe'low citizens throughout the United States :
md as no deposit is required, and every
be at liberty to withdraw his name, If
>n trial, he fliould disapprove of the work, he
lopes the friends of science, and of American arts
md manufa&ures will cheerfully and early pat
onize this ufeful work, the greatest and most
:x pen five, probably, ever yet attempted inAme
ica, in the typograpical line, the Enc)
excepted.
Phila. Nov. gth. 1732. iaivtf
*„* Two neat Editions of the Laws
of /he United for [ale at this office
(No. 209 Market Jireet) in folia and ofia
vo, either full or half bound—N.B. The
J nius oftheldjl SeJJion, in otlavo only, ma\
be hadjetarate, price three eighths of a dollar,
Terres a Yendre
Dans un pais Lien feup/e,—
CA/OIR, 3 :xante cinq mJle, trois cens, foix*
„J? ante et qiiatqize Acris t en une feaie piece"
4-afrts Je canton le mfc ux -tipiede la Caroline Me»
'dioaalc, le Piftiittdc Ninety-Six. Ces tern;*
.it fieuees dans one contrce et falubre
i les (levies font inconnuesj a environ vingt lieuei
- Coiombie, et contigues ala villS
Cambridge, ou ii y a College, et Coyr fupcri
are< A environ douzr lilies, iiy a bonne nav}-
ition i et il eft treq ; rotable, que dans auelquo
ems Oil rendra navigable Grand Saiude, rivier«
-ii arrofe les terres memes. Elles font agrcable
rent diverfifjees de coteaux et vallons charman*
opres a. i a culture du tabac, du coton, du njai>,
<du petit grain jet dont une proportion confider
•■le le pent convertir en prairies fertile*,
i) eft peuc-e'ie gucres po/fible de rencontserunc
'■ille ;<?cce de terre a vendre dans aiuua autre
E ais Un,is ; et pour les conditions de i'ach at
• i s rendra tres commodes.
'•'informer a Fimpumerie de la Gazette Na
-0 Sept. 5.
LAND J for SALE,
a well f-'lci Ci nr.. SIXTY FIVE
A I'HOUS AND THREE HUNDRED A ND
> EVLiM i V KUU ~ JCRES Of LAND, in one
d>, in t:~,e nioit populous pare of" the stat e of
< nnh-Carolii>a. in tbe'diftrifl of NMrty-fix-'-lc
Iruated in j fine healthy climaf,tree from f e ver
:'c ague,ab ut l.xtv miles from Columbia, th feat
>• govei Th.- land is contiguous te the
own of Cambridge, where are a len.inary to" the
lift Utli nuf * .I,tl), and a Inner; >;awcouit It
sat prel'e t ith . athirty-live miles of 'good
avij-at.Jn, -vi,r, a probability or the i ver,
al ed the Great Saluda, that a ,'..n S one fide
i 'ie land rnade nav jble. she land is beauri
uiiy divei in d into I wells and vales, and is per
t iy wtjl calculated tut the culture of tobacco,
. 'icon, Indian corn, and ftnall grain; a
jroportion of it may be made meadow grottfuU
1 he e is nor, pe haps, Inch a body of land, I ■ cit-
tor folt in any other Y the U. States.
Tne terms of payment) will De madsconvtnitnc to
.he or puichaleu. Apply to the Printer.
Auguit 19. lavvtf
KID, and Co.
PERFUMERS, fcfc
Have.just imp -ie :n the r* IG O XJ, and othe C
late arrivals from Europe, and mtov open to*
Sale, at tjieir store, No. 222, in Market above
§ixth-(treet,
A f neral .7fT.rtrr.ent of th<? following
G Q Q jQ S, viz.
LAQIES. and Gentu mens' japaned drefling
cases complete, of <ij| foris
■te .ilcmens' Ihaur.g caies, powder bags, boxes
and powvd-r pulfs oi all torts
fen r .tat Jl. iv, ry, aud ,) n i < mbes, of aU kinds
i' i; I '' ,-.i roots and tooth powdsf
vi -the L'l. c! >aKlis bruO.es
idics' tort 111eIi il.derifor the hair
3elt WindT< r jap, a l kinds ->f walk hal.'t
l-owder and court
••.li-: purTes an I Kloveo t ps
A.II kinds of rail r;, wai; anted
?.»cket, pen, ai d 1 porting knives
■u iJt >rs ot an icmos
"inching, c i i:r.g «nq Cpring irons
r\ general afloiimeut of pocket-baoks, /aire
thread-cases an "t;v s
Ted Eirgli(h, Ch {li.re, and Glouceiler checfes
ax, wax candle*, *nd sealing wax
■eO'age cards of all kinds
r\lJ kinds of ha r powder
Eivgiiili, French, and other pomatums
j. ambomed, Caflimier and mulliuet waiftcoas
patterns.
An elegant ajjbrtrnent of
Ready made Milinary,
?onfiftij)g ol lull dress, Caps> hatSy a..a Bonnets*
'ine chip hats
Siack bfaver hats, best quality
atTortment of (he most fashionable ribbons
And beads i r trimmings and other ornaments*
Uavs ikeivifr receive# a f-efb fuppty of
MII/K of KOSSS.
They beg leave to inform tht ladies, that fhey
onti :ue to make a!i kinds of ornamental falfe
iair upon an entne new method, and of so light
nd easy a con.'tru-diion, that they look better than
vtien a lady is dieted by the moit expert hair
re I'm: r.
An assortment of elegant cut Steel Watch
Chains, Seais, ath &G\s s &c. a variety of
iher goods, too tedious to enumei^e.
November jo. 2 aw.
Manufadlured and for Sale,
At Vo ii, North Sixth Jtre*t,
Falhionable Koinid To t ) and Flat
BUTTON S,
Warranted superior to any imported of
equal price.
Country Store keepers supplied either in
small or large quantities, By
S. POST & Co.
N.B. Conkfhe! Buttons, Bucklt s, Szc.
r 17. aawtf
?i:s?3D BY
CHI LI)S an j SWA 1N £
AT THT'S OFFICE NO. 209, HICH-ST»£IT
NEAR Flf TH-STJIIT,
rillL-AOZLtttlAt