Vol. I.
AVTHE N T I C
A CONSTITUTION
Or Form of Government for the
State of KENTUCKY.
We the Representatives of the People of the State of
Kentucky in Convention ajfcmbled, do ordain and
eftahlifh this Conjlitutionfor its government.
[Continuedfrom our lajl and concluded.J
ARTICLE 111.
Sec. I. TN ekaions by the citizens, all
J_ free male citizerts of the age
of twenty one years, having resided in the
state two years, or the county in which
they offer to vote one year next before the
eleaion, shall enjoy tht rights of an elec
tor, but no person shall be entitled to vote
except inthecounty in which he shall actu
ally reside at the time of the eleaion.
Sec. 2 All ekaions shall be by ballot.
Sec. 3. Ekaors shall in all cases except
treason, felony and breach orfurety of the
peace, be privileged from arrest during
their attendance at ekaions, and in going
to and reluming from them.
ARTICLE IV.
See. 1. THE House ofßeprefentatives
shall have the fok power of impeaching.
Sec. 2. All impeachments "Thall Wtried
Ky the Senate; when fitting for that
purpose, the Senators shall be upon oatli
or affirmation : No person shall be con
viaed without the concurrence of y,vc
thirds of the members present.
Sec. 3. The governor and all other
civil officers shall be ;iab'.e to impeachment
for any misdemeanor in office ; but judg.
ment in such cases (hall not extend further
than to removal from office and difquaiifi.
cation to hold any office of horror, triril 01
profit under this commonwealth ; but the
party conviaed shall nevertheless be liable
and fubj:a to indiament, trial and pu
sifhment according to law.
ARTICLE V.
Sec. I. THE Judicial power of this
commonwealth both as to matters of law
* and equity, shall bevelled in one Supreme
Court, which (hall be (liled the Court ol
Appeals, and in such inferior courts as the
legislature may from time to time ordain
and establish.
Sec. 2. The Judges both of the Su
preme and Inferior.courts shall
offices during good behavior : but for any
reafonabk cause which (hall not be fuffi
cient ground of impeachment, the govern
or may remove any of them on the addref
of tw®. thirds <f each branch of the Le
They shall at stated times re
ceive for their fences an adequate com
penfation to be fixed by law, which lhal
not be diminished duringtheir continuant!
in office.
Sec. 3. The supreme coHi t shall have
original and final jurffdiaion in all cases
refpefting the titles to land under the pre
sent land laws ofViiginia, including those
which may be depending in the present
Supreme court for the diflria of Kentuc
ky, at the time of ellablifhing the laid Su
preme court; and in all cases concerning
contraa« for land, prior to tie establish
ing. of those titles. And the said court
shall have power to hoar and determine the
/ame in a lummary way, and to direa the
mode of bringing the fame to a hearing,
so as to enable them'to do right ancf juf
ticeto the parties, with as little delay and
•at as small an expence as the nature of the
business will allow; butthe said court shall,
in all such cases oblige the parties to state
the material parts of their complaint and
defence in writing ; and shall on the con
clusion of every cause, state on the records,
the whole merits of the cafe, the ques
tions therefrom, the opinions ol
the court thereupon, and a summary ol
the reasons in support of those opinions.
Sec. 4. And it shall be the duty of each
judge of the Supreme court, present at the
Rearing of any such cause, and differing
By P. F R E.N EA U : Publi/ked Mondays and Thursdays, at Thrf.s Dollars per annum
THURSDAY, June 28, 1792
froff! a majority oj; the coijft, to deliver
liia opinion in writing, to be entered as
aforefaid ; and each judge shall deliver his
opinion in open court. And the fa d
co.ut shall have power on the determina
tion of any such cafe, to award the legal
colls against either party or to divide the
f me among the different parties, as to
them shall seem juit and right. And the
laid court shall have full power to take
such steps as they may judge proper, to
perpetuate teflimony in all cases concern
ing such titles. Provided that ajury shall
always be impanneled for the finding of
fu h facts as are not agreed by the parties ;
unless the parties or their attornies, shall
ivaveiheir right of trial by jury, and refer
the matter of fafl to the decision of the
:ourt. Provided also, that the legislature
may whenever they may judge it expedi
;nt, pat 3 an ast or a£ts to regulate the
mode of proceedings in such cases, or to
ake away entirely the original jurifdidt on
hereby given to the la:i»court in such
:afes.
Sec. 5. In all other cafcs the supreme
:ourt shall have appellate jurifdiftion only,
ivith such exceptions and under such regu
ations r as the legislature fh?ll make; and
:he legislature may from time to time vest
!n the fuprem^and inferior courts, .or ei
.her of them, such powers both in law and
:quity, as they shall judge proper and ne
cessary, for the due adminiflration of jus
:ice.
* Sec. 6. A competent number of juflic.es
Df the peace (hall be appointed in each
:ounty, they shall be commissioned during
good behavior, but may be removed 011
:onvi£lion of misbehavior in office, or of
any infamous crime, or on the address of
aoth houses of the legislature.
Sec. 7. The judges shall by virtuvof
their office be conservators of the peace
throughout the slate. The flyle of all
process (hall be, " The Commonwealth
of KENTUCKY," all prosecutions shall
be carried on in the name and by the au
thority of the Commonwealth of Ken
Lucky, and conclude against the peace and
dignity of the fame.
ARTICLE Vt
Sec. 1. SHERIFFS and Coroners,
[hall at the times and places of elections of
representatives, be chosen by the citizens
of each county, qualified to vote for repre
fentatives. They shall hold their offices
for three years, if they shall so long be
have themselves well, and until a successor
be du'y qualified ; but no person fha Ibe
twice chosen or appointed Sheiiff in any
term of fix years. Vacancies in either of
the said offices, shall be filled by a new ap
pointment to be made by the governor, to
continue until the next general election,
and until a successor fliall be chosen and
qualified as aforefaidf.
Sec. 2. The free-men of this Common
wealth fhall-be armed and disciplined for
its defence. Those who conscientiously
scruple to bear arms, shall not be com
pelled to do so ; but fliall pay an • equiva
lent for personal service.
Sec. 3. The field and flaff officers of the
militia fliall be appointed by the governor
except the battalion flaff officers who shall
be appointed by the field officers of each
battailion refpedtively. ~
Sec. 4. The officers of companies shall
be chosen by the persons enrolled ;n the
lift of each company, and the whole fha.l
be commissioned during good behaviour,
and during their residence in the bounds of
the battallion or company to which they
shall be appointed. *
Sec. 5. Each court shall appoint its
own clerk, who (hall hold his office during
good behavior ; but no person shall be ap
pointed clerk, only pro who shall
i»ot produce to the court appointing him,
a certificate from a majority of the judg
es of thfeourt of Appeals, that he hath
been examined by their,clerk in their pre
sence, a*nd under their direction, and thai
they judge him to be ftell qualified to exe-
cute the office of clerk to any court of the
fame dignity with that for which he of
fetshimfelf. They shall be removable
for breach of good behaviour,by the court
of appeals only, who shall be judges of the
fadt as well as of tie law. Two thirds of
the members present mull concur in the
fenteice. m
Sec. 6. All commlffio«ns shall be in the
name and by the authority of the ftatc of
K itucky, and be iealed with the flare
feiilj and iigned by the governor.
Sec. 7, The state treasurer shall be
appointed annually by the joint ballot of
both houses.
ARTICLE VII.
Sec. I. Members of the general Af
femhly, and all officers executive and ju
dkial, before they enter upouVhc execu
tion of their refpe&ive offices, fl>all take
the following oath or affirmation. " I do
solemnly fweqr ( or affirm as the cafe may
be) that I will be faithful and true to the
commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as
I con; in u a citizen thereof, and that I
will faithfully execute to the bell: of my
abilities the office of accordiag to
law."
ARTICLE VIII.
Sec. 1. Treason against the common
wealth, shall co fill only in levying war
against it, or in adhering to its enemies,
giving them aid and comfort. No person
shall be convicted of treason, unless on
the testimony of two witnefles to the fame
overt ait; or o'n his own confeffion in open
court.
Sec 2. Laws shall be made to ex'
elude from office and from fuffrage, those
who shall thereafter be convicted of bri
perjury, forgery or otVer high
crimes or misdemeanors. The privilege
of free fuffrage, shall be supported by
laws regulating eledtions, and prohibiting
under adequate penalties, all undue influ
ence thereon from power, bribery, tumult
or other improper prailices.
Sec. 3. No money shall be <Jrawn
from the Tueafury, but in consequence of
appropriations made by law, nor shall any
appropriations of money for the Support
of an army, be made for a longer term
than one year, and a regular statement
and account of the receipts and expendi
ture? of all public money, shall be publish
ed annually.
Sec 4. The legislature shall diredl by
aw, in what manner and in what courts,
'uits may be brought against the com
nonweaith.
Sec 5. The manner of administering
in oath or affirmation, shall be such as is
noft confillent with the conscience of the
deponent, and shall be esteemed by the le
jiflalure the molt solemn appeal to God.
Sec. 6. All laws now in force in the
State of Virginia, not inconsistent with
this constitution which are .oT a general
lature, and not local to the eastern part
sf that state, shall be in force in this ftatc,
until they shall be altered or repealed by
the legiflaturc.
Sec. 7. jl'be compadt with the state
as Virginia, fubjedt to such alterations as
may be made tSerein, agreeably to the
mode prescribed by the said compact,
[hall be considered as a part of this con
ization.
ARTICLE IX.
Sec. 1. The legislature, shall have no
p*wer to pass law's for the emancipation of
(laves without the consent of their owners,
or without paying their owners, previous
to such emancipation, a full equivalent in
money, for the slaves so emancipated.
They shall have no power to prevent emi
grants to this state, from bringing with
them such persona as are deemed by
the laws of any one of the United States,
so long as any person of the fame age or
description, shall be continued in slavery
by the laws of this state. That they shall
pass laws to permit the owners of flave3
Numb. 70.
to emancipate them, favir.g the rights of
creditors, and preventing them from be
coming a charge to the county in which
they reside. They shall have full power
to prevent flaw*3 being brought into this
flatc as merftiandize. They shall havf
full power to prevent any Haves being
brought into this from a fo'.eigu
country, and to prevent those from being
brought into this who have been
fines the fir ft day or cue thousand
seven hundred and eighty-nine: or may
hereafter be imported into any of the U*
nited States from a foreign toumry, And
they shall have full powar to pass fi'.ch
laws as may be neceflary, to oblige the
owners of slaves to treat them with human
ity, to provide for them aeceffary cloath
ing and provision, to abstain from ail in-,
juries to the.n extending to life or limb,
and in cafe of theii ncgle£l:,'or refufal to
comply with the of such laws,
to have,fuch (lave or llavcs fold for the be
nefit of their owner or owners.
ARTICLE X.
Sec. I. Tii? 1 place for the feat of
government shall be fixed in the so low
ing 'Vianner -The House of Repre
sentatives, lhall, during their fefilan, which
(hall be held in the year one thousand se
ven hundred and ninety-two, cluife by
ballot, twenty one persons, from whom
the representation from Mercer and Fav
ette counties then present, (hall alternate
ly llrike out one, until the number (hall
be reduced to five, who, or any three of
them concurring in opinion, (hall have
power to fix on the placc for the feat of
government, to receive grants from indi
viduals therefor, and to make luch condi
tions with the proprietor or proprietors,
of the land so pitched on by them, as to
them shall seem fight, ;.mj •?; b' .-greed
to by the said proprietor or proprietors ;
and lay off a town thereon, in such man
n£r as they shall judge moil proper.
Sec. 2. The general afTembly and the
supreme courts shall within (iye years, hold
:l|fir sessions at the place so pitched upon
Dy the said commiflioners and the feat of
government so fixed,(hall continue until it
hall le changed by two thirds of both
jranches of the legislature. The com
nifiioncrs, before they proceed to ast,
hall take an or make affirmation that
hey will discharge the trull reposed in
hem, in such manner, as in their, i udg •
nent will be raeil beneficial to tla- (late
it large.
ARTICLE XI.
Sec. i. That the citizens of thir.
late, may have an opportunity to amend
>r change this constitution in a peaceablc
manner, if, to them it fiiall ieem expedi
ent ; the persons qualified to Vqte for Re
urefentatives, shall, at the general eledlion
;o be held in the year one thoiltand seven
hundred and ninety-seven, vote also, &y
aailot, for or aginft a convention, as they
hall severally chufe to do ; and if there
upon it shall appear that a majority of all
he citizens in the (late voting for Repre
sentatives, have voted for a convention,
h» general afTembly shall direst that a
!milar ballot (hall be taken the next year ;
and if thereupon, it (hall also appear that
i majority ot all the citizens of the ftatc,
voting for representatives have voted for a
convention, the general afTembly shall at
their next session, call a convention to con
sist of as many members as there shall be
in the Hrufe of Representatives, to be
chosen in the fam<*itianner, at the fame
places and at the fame time that repre
sentatives are, by the citizens emitled to
vote for representatives, and to meet witii
in three months after the said el.ftion,
for the purpose of re-adopting, amending
or changingthis constitution. If it fiiall
appear upon the ballot of either year, that
a majority of the citizens voting for re
presentatives is not in favor of a conventi
on being called, it (hall not be done until
two thirds of both branches of the legiflu
ture shall deem it expedient.ARTICLE XII.
That the general great and essential principles of
liberty and free government may be recogniz
ed and established ; WE DECLARE,
Sec. l. That all men, \*Jien thev form a fa
cial compafl, are equal and that no man or set 'of
men, are entiiled to cxclufive separate public
emoluments or privileges from rhe community,
but in consideration of public services.
Sec. 2. That all power is inherent in the
people andall free governments are founded on
their authority and infiituted for their peace,
fafety and happiness. For the advancement of
( hefe ends, they have at all times an unalienable
a nd indefeafible rigbt 10 alter, reform or abolish
,hcir government, infuch manner as they may
{ hink proper.
Sec. 3. That all men have a natural and in
defeafible right to worship Almighty God,ac
cording to the dictates of their own consciences ;
jhat no man can of right be corjpellcd to attend,
cretf or support any place of worship, orto main
tain any miniflry againfl hisconfent ; that no hu
man authority can in any cafe whatever, control
or interfere with the rights of confcicnce ; and
that no preference ihall ever be given by law, to
any religious societies or modes of worship.
Sec. 4. That the civil rights, privileges or
capacities of any citizen (hall in no wife be dimin.
ifhed or on account of his religion.
Sec 5. That all elections shall be free and
equal.
Si cT6. That trial'by jury shall be as hereto
fore. and she right thereof remain inviolate'
Sec. 7. That-printing presses shall be free to
every pprfou who undertakes to examine the
■ proceedings of the legislature or any branch of
government ; and no law shall ever be made to
refttai 11 the right thereof. The free communi
cation of thoughts opjnions is one of the in
valuable lights of man, and every citizen may
freely speak, write and print on any fubjeft, be
ingrefponfible for the abuse of that liberty.
Sec. 8. In profecution<Uor the publication
of papers, invefligaling the official conduttof of
ficers or men in a public capacity, or the
matter published is pioper for public informati
on the truth thereof may be jiven in evidence.
And in all inditlments for lißels, the juiy fliall
have a right to determine the law and the facts,
under the direction of the couit as in other cases.
s ec. p- That the people (hall be secure in
their persons, houses, papers and pofTeffion?,
from unreasonable seizures and searches; and
that no warrant to search any place or to seize
any persons or things, shall ifTue without 'describ
ing them as nearly as may be, nor without pro
bable cause lupported by oath or affirmation.
Sec. 10 That in all criminal prosecutions,
the acculVd hath a right to be heard by hirnfelf
and his counsel : to demand the nature and cause
of the accusation againfl him, to meet the wit
nefTes face to face, to have compulsory process
for obtain., j wit. :: ..,, :j: 5 favour: and in pro
secutions by indi&ment or information, a speedy
public trial by an impartial jury of the vicinage ;
that he cannot be to give evidence a
gainfl himfelf, nor can he be deprived of his life,
liberty or property, unless by the judgment of
fiis peers, or the law of the land.
See. it. That no person shall for any in
diflable offcnce be proceeded againfl criminally
by information ; except in cases arising in the
land or naval forces, or in the militia when in
a£lualfervice,in time of war or public danger,
or by leave of the court for oppression or milde
ineanorin office.
Sec. 12. No person shay, for the fame of
fence be twice put in jeopardy of his life 01
limb, nor shall any man's property be taken 01
public use without the consent of hi:
representatives, and without jufl compenfatior
being previously made to him.
Sec. 13. That all courts shall be open, ant
every perlon for aninjury done him in his lands
goods, petfon or reputation, shall have remed)
by the clue course of law ; and right and jufticf
adminiflered, without sale, denial o> delay.
Sec. 14. /That no power of fufpendiTrg law
shall be exercised, unless by the legislature or it;
authority.
Sec. 15! Tliat exceflive bail shall not be re
quired, nor excessive fines imposed, nor crue
pumfhmenis inflifled.
Sec. 16. That all piifoners shall be baila
ble by fulficient sureties, unless for capital of
fences when the proof is evident or prefumptior
great; and the privilege of the writ of habea;
corpus, shall not be fuipended unless when in caf
cs oi rebellion or invasion, the public fafety fha)
require it.
Sec. 17. That the person of a debtor where
there 13 not flrong preemption of fraud, shall
not be continued in pnfon after delivenng'uf
his eflate for the benefit of his creditors, in fucf
manner as shall be prescribed by law.
Sec. 1?. That no ex pojlj'aflo law, nor any
law impairing contrasts fliall be made.
Sec. 19. 7 hat no person fliall be attainted
of treason or felony J»yKhe legislature.
Sec. 20. That no attainder fliall work
corruption of blood, nor, except during the
life of the offender, forfeiture of eflate tc
tile Commonwealth.
Sec. 21. 1 hat elfates of such persons as
fliall deflroy their own lives, shall descend or
veil: as in cafe of natural death, and if any
person shall be killedby casualty, there fliall
be no forfeiture by reason thereof.
Sec. That the citizens have a right 111
a peaceable manner, to assemble together
for their common good, and to apply to
those inverted with the powers of govern
ment for redress of grievances or other
proper purposes by petition, address or re
monft ranee.
23. That the rights of the citizens to
bear arms in defence of themselves and the
state lliall not be queifioned.
*Sec. 24. That 110 fhiuding army shall in
time of peace, be kept up without the con
lent of the legislature, ftd the military
/hall 111 all cases and at all times be in ftriit
subordination to the civil power.
Sec. 25. 1 hat 110 soldier mail in time of
peace, be quartered in any house, without
the consent of the owner, nor in time of
war, but in manner to be prefdribed by
law.
Sec. 26. That the legislature not
grant any title of nobility or hereditary dif
tinition, nor create any office the appoint
ment to which fliall be for a longer term
than during good behaviour.
Sec. 27. That emigration .from the state
fliall not be prohibited.
Sec. 28. To guard against tranfgrefllons
of the high poweivs which we have delega
ted, WE DECLARE, that every thing in
this article is excepted out of the general
powers of government, and fliall forever
temain inviolate ; and that all laws con
trary thereto or contrary to this constitu
tion fliall be void.
SC-HIDULV
That no inconvenience may arise from the
establishing the government of this state,
and in order to carry the fame into com
plete operation, it is hereby declared and
ordained,
Sec. 1. THAT all rights, actions, prose'
cutions, claims and contracts, as well of in"
dividuals as of bodies corporate, shall com
tiilue as if yie laid government had not been
established
Sec. 2. That all officers civil and military
now in commission under the state of Vir
ginia, fliall continue to hold and exercise
their offices until the 10th day of August
next and no longer.
Sec.*3. That until the firft enumeration
fliall be made as directed by thefixth feftion
as the firft article of this constitution, the
county of Jefferfon, fliall be entitled to elect
three representatives; the county of Lin
coln four representatives; the county of
Fayette nine representatives; the county
of Nelson lix representatives; the county
of Mercer four representatives; the coun
ty of Madison three representatives; the
county ot Bourbon, five representatives;
the county of Woodford, four representa
tives ; and the county of Mason, two re
presentatives.
Sec. 4. The General AfleAibly fliall meet
at Lexington on the 4th day of June next.
. Sec. 5. All returns herein directed to be
made to tiie Secretary, fliall, previous to
his appointment, be made to the clerk oT
the supreme court for the diftri£t of Ken
tucky.
Sec. 6. Until a Seal fliall be procured for
the state, the governor shall be at libecty to
use his private sea!.
Sec. 7- The oaths of office herein direct
ed to be taken, may be administered by any
Justice of the Peace, untiL the legislature
shall othertvife direst.
Sec. 8. All bonds given by any officer
within the diftrift of Kentucky payable to
the Governor of Virginia, may be prosecu
ted in the name of the Governor of Ken
tucky. *
Sec. 9. All offences against the laws of
Virgihia, which have been committed with
in the present diftria of Kentucky, or which
may be committed within the fame blfore
the firft day of Juile next, shall be cogniza
ble in the courts of this state in the lame
manner that they would be, if they were
committed within this state, after the said
firft day of June.
Sec. 10. At the eleflions herein dire£ted
to be held in May next, the fheriff of each
county, or in cafe of his absence, one of his
deputies shall preside, and if they neglect or
refufe to ast, the said elections fliall be held
by any one of the justices of the peace for
the county where such refufa/or negleci
fliall happen ; each officer holding such elec
tion having firft taken an oath before a jus
tice of the "peace to conduit the said elec
tion witn impartiality, shall have power to
administer to any person oifering to vote at
fuc;i election, the following oath or affirma
tion " 1 dofwear (or affirm) that I am
qualified to vote for representatives in tlie
county of the confii
tution formed for the state of Kentucky,"
and such officer fliall hav* a right Jo refufe
to receive the vote of any person who shall
refufe to take the said oath or make affir
mation when tendered to him. And the
said elections shall be at the several
places appointed for holding courts in the
different counties.
Sec. 11. The government of the com
monwealth of Kentucky, fliall commence
on the firft day of June next.
DONE in convention, at Danville, the
nineteenth day of.. April, one thousand
feveri hundred and ninety two, and of the
independence of the United States of Ame
rica, the sixteenth. >
BY ORDER OFTHE CONVENTION
SAMUEL M'DOWELL, P. C.
Attelt. Thomas Todd, c. c.
*** The publication vf this paper on Mon
days and Thursdays, has been attended with
several unexpected inccnventencies. The Editor
therefore, proposes to change his days of publication
ti Wednesdays and Saturdays, so that our
next paper [A 'umb. 71] will not appear till Wed
nesday Jply 4//},
DUBLIN April 30.
The following is an extratt froiq Mr. Tandy's let
ter to his fellow citizens.
"In the month of February lall a mem
ber of the House of commons did, in that
house, take very unwarrantable liberties
with my name. I thought it a duty I ow
ed myfeil" to enquire if they were meant as
personal insult. The enquiry was answer
ed, (or avoided,) by a complaint of breach
of privilege, which produced a warrant to
drag- me before the House—The melTenger
to whom it was directed, reported, that I
had escaped the execution of it—-and the
dignity of the people's representatives be
comes degraded, and the laws molt inde
cently infultesl by prefixing an add rets t«j
the viceroy for iHuing a proclamation to
apprehend me, without taking the exami
nation or oath of a (ingle person whereon
to found the proceeding. The conduct of
the Keprefentative of Majesty, and his pri
vy council in the ridiculous gal'conade of
their proclamation is diflinguifhed by equal
geodfenfe and temper, and with equal regard to
the legal feirms required by the co'nftitution;
foi- upon no better evidences are jullice:
and constables, and captains of lhips enjoin
ed to appreherd and secure me ; and when
I come to be arrefled under this fictitious
representative of legal process, such is its
folly, that even a police magistrate hesitates
to give it force and validity :
The creatures of power and corruption
Hy, and are afraid or alhamed- to support
their creators ! the proclamation having
thus loll; its King, the warrant of the com
mons is again tried, Slid under its authori
ty I am dragged to their bar, and from
thence by ..■eir order to Newgate.
Having given this brief flatement, it 15
only necefl'ary to add a few observations :
It appears, tljat among the rights compre
hended in the privilege of free debate in the
Irish House of Commons,is that of mreflram
ed Billing/gate again!! every citizen who op
pores or exposes, the profligacy of a cor
rupt court. — 1 he dignity of parliamenta
ry proceeding, and the correct delicacy of
(enatorial language, are delerted by admi
niffration for puerile petulance, the low a
buse of an illiterate dsbatin£fociety. The
citizen who dares to think or speak, mull
be run down "as bankrupt in charafterand
fortune, ' and then perhaps his person * be
comes the butt of the meanness of unmanly
ridicule. I his is, surely a noble and gener% i
privilege to exercise ! yet woe to him who
has spirit to resent or refill it !—Admini
(tration holding the majority of Parliamenl
by the beard through corruption, become
at once his judges and persecutors ; auc :
then warrants, sergeant at arms, and pro
clamations, hunt him to the very sea ports
of the Illand.
TSvery man acquainted' with parliamen
tary hiltory knows that the privileges of
the commons were originally permitted
and exercised, in opposition to the crown,
for the benefit and protection of the peo
ple, when they had Representatives ol
their own particular choice ; but now, un
retrained privilege and undefined preroga
tive are alike hurled with vengeance againfl
the people, | who, instead of being everj
thing, are—nothing.
1 hefe observations describe and ac
count for the conduct of adminillration. —
In refpeft to myfelf. if I had submitted to
their usurped authority, in February lall.
I mull have gratified the malignity of theii
malice, in long and aggravated confinement
with much personal inconvenience ; where
as the occurrences ofthis week afford am
ple matter for beginning the important
quellions involved in them, with all the ne
cessary force and effect, before the proper
legal tribunal, whilfl their pailions are bill
half satiated, and yourrijdars have not beer
in any degree by your fellow
citizens."
* Alluding to several abusive ballads
againll Mr. Tandy, "one of which begins
thus :
"Is this the nan we held in awe,
" IVho loctCd a Jright I—whose nod was law\ u
And another thus :
'AS Sapper fat rueful alofie
Debating twixt patience and flrife,
His face in convulsions was thrown
And he long'd to get rid of this life :
!■ ax fighting no flomach he had,
(Sad reproach to a volunteer chief)
And kilbng himfelf lie thought bad,
And a damnable way of relief," &c.
TEN" POUNDS REWARD.
BROKE goal at Monmouth court-house on
Sunday evening, the loth inft. a Negro
Man, named SAM, sometimes calls himfelf
George ; is of a yellow complexion, high cheek
bones, large white eyes, and impudent look ;
said negro is about five feet ten inches high, had
on and took witn him when he went away, a
Iheeting fhirt-dhd trowfers, oznabrigs frock, and
an old felt hat. Whoever will deliver said run
away to his matter, or lodge him in any goai, so
that his master may have him again, ihall be
entitled above reward to be paid by me
ELISHA JEWEL—.
Freehold, Monmouth county, June 22, 1792.
I. a. w. 41
*** Three hanafome Editions of the LawsoJ
the United Statesforfale at this office (A3 209 Mar
ket Street)in folio andiOctavo, either full or ha!)
bound- — N.B. The Laws of the lajl Session, in Oc
tavo only, may k fad feptrtk, pr'.Ct thneeiehthi
<f* dctlgr, *
PHILADELPHIA.
June 28, 1792.
A few clays since arrived at Wilmingtor
from Belfalf, in Ireland, a ship with up
wards of four hundred paflengers, wh
have come to feyle 111 the United States.
The Englifti have lately re-inforcedthei
strength at Jamaica with several addition
al ships of war on that station, as well i
/hips from England. Two regiments ar
also ordered there from Halifax. Thi
seems to have given the Frdfcch at Hifpa
niola many uneasy apprehensions, fuppo
ling themselves, in their present weak state
to be the probable object of attack. I
conference preparations the go
vernor of French Hifpaniola has given or
dels to put the sea coast in the bell state o
defence poflible ; and a line of signals ar
eltablifhed quite Mown from the Gape t
Nicola, Mole. Orders are fakl. to hav
been received in Jamaica from Englam
not to Inpply the French at St. Doming'
with provilions of any kind.
The people of Savanna, in Georgia
were lately much duped by an impostor
who had advertised to exhibit many ex
traordinary feats of aflivity. After wait
ing an hour and an half for the rising o
the curtain, the audience had the mortifi
cation to find the wonder-monger and hi
associates, his dancing horse, his fpeakim
pigs, his .whittling pigeons, &c. &c. all flee
with a very coniiderable sum of mone
that he hadcolleited from the unfufpeftin:
citizens.
The following paragraph, copied fron
an Irish paper, affords the cleared inform
ation we have yet seen about the arrest o
Mr. 1 andy.—lt appears he never submit
ted to any process until a judiciary one is
sued • —
u On Saturday last, 21ft April, a war
rant was issued from the court of king
bench, for apprehendiug James Nappei
1 andy, Eftj. inforrmtion on oath havin;
been*driven before the honorable juftic<
Hewit, that Mr. Tandy had written letter
to Mr. f oler, with intention of promrf
ting a duel, and committing a breach o
the peace ; and on Monday Mr. Tand;
waited on Mr. Justice Hewit, accompani
ed by Hugh Crothers and Henry Jackson
esquires, to give bail; and were bound ii
one recognizance in the penalty of 200!
that Mr. Tandy fhoukl attend the court o
kings bench from day to day, to anfwei
such charges as ma«y be brought againl
him ; and also in another recognizance o
the fame penalty, that Mr. TandylhouU
keep the peace with all his majesty's fub
jefts, and in particular with John Toler.
Elq. Ihe cafe of Mr. Tandy, as we un*
derftand he intends to bring foms late
tranfaftions relative to himfelf before the
tribunal of the courts of law, will mate
rially interest the public attention, both
as involving a question as to the extent of
parliamentary privileges, and as to thefe
curity of the fubje£t from undefined, and
thetefore unknown authority: however
moderate the exercise of power, it mull
always be deiirable to have its boundaries
ascertained ; and however temperate the
authoritative claims of any branch of the
legillature, it must ever be eligible to have
thc«t defined."
We are further informed by a gentle
man who was in Dublin during the whole
ot these tranfaftions, that the words used
by T oler (who in private to be a
friend of Mr. ; Tandy's, but in tlje house
of commons made u(e of this
ible and probably falfeexpreffion) were,—
that he was bankrupt both in character
and fortune. ' —Mr. Tandy, hi consequence
demanded an explanation, and fait! if it
was refufed he would have recourse to
the public papers ; in other words, that he
would publifli Toler as a coward. —The
wretched servant of the crown took fhfel
ter under his privilege, and engaged the
whole parliament to resent his pitiful cafe.
The ferjeant at arms was dispatched to ar
rest Mr. 7 andy, but he would not gratify
the childish malice of the house, to submit
to their officer—and when the filly tool ancl
representative of majesty was so ridiculous
to iflue a jfroclamation to apprehend Mr.
1 andy,_ and when he attended at several
of the city magistrates, in consequence of
the ignorant proclamation, none of thole
city magistrates, nay, not even the caftle
liacts amongst them, would take their
mock-majesties' proclamation for a fuffi
:ient authority to commit Mr. Tandy—so
.hat he was not committed until a warrant
1 flueel from the king's bench—and he was
amy one night in prison, to which place he
was attended by upwards of 6000 citizens,
who were joined by many thoufandsin the
evening, and, Bad it not been for the feli
citations of Mr. Tandy and his foil, there
would have been a rnoft dreadful scene of
blood filed, for the citizens wer? well in
clined to destroy the prison that night and
every house belonging to the government
junto.—The moderation and good sense of
Tandy prevented this dreadful catastro
phe ; and we hear that it is expefled he
will be able to humble thole members of
the house of commons who had forgot that
they were the servants of the people, and
'i3Y? Ivflg 0 afTunjijig fyjt yfprop?rt?in the of their unhappy and
diftrefled countrymen.
gentleman who favored its with the
particulars, has given it as his un
prejudiced opinion that a complete revo
lution, in favor of the liberties of the peo
ple,' will take place in Ireland in less than
two years.
. r
ThejWfefts which have been generated
within To short a time, in the members of
the national government of the United
by the management of a great pub
lic dlbt, is an irrefiftable demonstration of
the'baneful influence of public debtjt on
public virtue : and it may be numbered
among the many striking indications of the
penetrating mind of our chief magistrate,
that in the midst of the fafhionable fallacie;
on that fubjeft, his speeches to Congref
have uniformly recommended and prefled
a vigorous attention to the means of rid
ding his country of so great an evil.
Itis a hopeful sign of political reforma
tion, When the known abettors of hereditary gov
ernment and orders of nobiljty are represented
by their humble Servants in the public pa
pers, as having undergone a conversion to
the.true principles of the revolution and
republicanism. The world, (the Ameri
can world, at least) has been much deceiv
ed, if there has not been in several" instances a
deviation from certain principles, a lemblance
of which were neceifary in dark hours for
purpofesnot difficult to be guessed at. —If
the conversion of fucli characters be sincere
(which shall be judged by their works) con
fufion be to the man that ihall pen a line
againlt them in future !
No sooner had the news arrived at
Kingston (state of New-York) that Mr.
Clinton was re-ele£ted governor by a ma
jority of 108, after the rejection of the re
turns from Otfego, than the inhabitants
met, and went in procession to Bogardus's
tavern, jvhere a number of toasts were
drank under the discharge of cannon.—A
mongthe toasts, and lirit in order, were,
John Jay, govehw, by the voice of the people ;
and, Stephen Van R[njfdaer, luut. gov. by the
loice of the people. —it, was aflerted, at this
meeting, that the ballots from Otfego alone
♦would have carried Mr. Jay's election by a
majority of 300.
Accounts from Jamaica fay, that about
thi'ee score iron and steel bedstead* ha\fe
been imported into their capital (King
ston) for the use of the invalid holpital.—
They were fabricated, it is (aid, at the
Charrom (possibly they n van Charon) foun
dery, and are thought to be a valt improve
ment both for convenience and economy. 11 is
further said, " they harbour neither bugs
lior vc-rmin, & will la ft forever ."[Quere, whe
ther it is not better to endure the nibbling-;
of a few bugs, &c. and tofleepon abed- i
fteadthat will not last forever, than to run
the immediate risque of being kHled with'
lightning, to which a person is Jmoft daily
exposed, at Kingston, who reclines on filch
tedfteads ?— If it be rfieant as the means of
ridding the nation of the charge of inva
lids, not Efculapius himfelf could have re
commended a muctjfurer method,efp: cially
during the months of August and Septem
ber.] ,
The citizens of Charleston, at a late'
meeting of the inhabitants, palled a num
ber of resolves, to adopt effectual mea
furesto prevent in future a
has Ibng prevailed in the northern states.
41 of (hipping off to South-Carolina those of
their Haves condemned for crimes, and
otherwise guilty of offences."
A fubfeription is going on in Virginia,for
opening the navigation of Quaatico creek
(a branch of jhe Potawmack) as far up as
to the town of Dumfries.
The Norwich (Connecticut ) Gazetie makes
mention of/how squalls to the eafVward of
that place on or about the <flrWdle of June,
instant. It may be recolleftedthe weather
was extremely cold in this city about the
faftie time, the thermometer having flood
not many degrees abovefreezing.
About the middle of April a white mail
and his son were killed by Indians, 011 the 1
Georgia frontier, who were discovered to
be three in number. No alarm seems to
have taken place in consequence thereof
among the settlers. Gen. M' .illivray was
expected down in a short time to Rock-
Landing ; and at the above date, about one
hundred Indians were in the neighbour
hood of that place, " all of whom seemed
perfectly disposed for pe";pe.
The constitution of Kentucky finally
ratified by the convention at Danville on
the 26th of April, 1792. Thefirft legisla
ture was to meet at Lexington on the- 4th
inft. lfaae Shelby Esq. is elected governor.
A Bank is established at Salem,Maffachu
fetts, known by the name of the EfTex
Bank, with a Prelident, fix directors, and a
Cafiiier.—they allure the public that spe
culation, that bane of industry" and integ
rity, is no part of the system on which this
bank is instituted.
The terms stipulated by the government
of Great Britain, for stationing troops in
the idand of Jamaica, is 011 the following
terms, viz. that the island should be ref
.ponfible for the established regular pay of
the troops, belides the island pay."—The
inhabitants have pafled resolutions,
purporting that the government has taken
an ungenerous advantage of these alarms
which the infurre&ions in St. Domingo has
necefl'arily occasioned, &c. j
On Monday last arrived at New-York
the Britilh packet Chefterfield, in 49 days
from Falmouth, —London papers are re
ceived by her to the 4th of May, which
contgin very little in addition to former ac
counts •, the mod material yitelligence is
as follows :
That the reigning duke of Brunfwick,
! destined to command tl>e army of the citt-*
pile on the Rhine, has been aflaffinated—
Thp three grand armies of France were iii
motion, but had, not yet committed any ast
los hostility— That France had proposed a
tntpe for ten days with Hungary—Thajthe
'.i7gli(h ministry were .determined not to
inf&rfere in the war on' the continent if
could poflibly avoid It.—Troops tc the
uuinber of 4000 were to martjh to Dunkirk
to reinforce the garrifoji there—An attack
from the French on Oftend was expected,
btjing in an indefenfible state—A motion
had been made in the national alfemb!j' to
tranlport all the non-juring priests out of
the kingdom— 3000 Prussian engineers with
14.000 infantry, and (ix regiments of ca
valry were in motion, to defend the Prus
sian frontiers— the ele£tor of Bavaria had
put his army on the war eftablilhmenc, and
all his rigiments had received orders for
marching.
We are told in a paper ofyefterday, that
, " great pains were taken to afiertaiti the lowefl
r.'te ofpofiage, which wouldie competent todefray
ingt e expenee" of the carriage of newspa
pers. Circumstances however w«u'd lead
us to suspect, that the proper enquiries were
not made, till a, ter the law was pafled : for
a majority of that House, in which the bill
originated, havefince acknowledged in fact
that they had aEled wrong in rating the pos
tage so high ; and before the close of the
fellion, they endeavored to correct tlwi r
former error, by palling in due torm a new
bill, to reduce the rate one half. After
this unequivocal declaration of the senti
ments of a Mhjority of the reprefentatiics of the
people, would not a man be juftifiable, in fay
ing, that the present rates of Newspaper
postage are sanctioned only by the authority
of the Senate, who, by rejecting the hew
U«l, fentto them from the other house pre
vented the representatives and the Pretident
from reducing the rates, in consequence of
the enquiries that were made with so much
"pains" and diligence ?
From the Knoxville Gazette May 3
On the ,sth of April, as a Cherokee, with
four squaws, was passing peaceably, near
the house of James Hubbard, on French
Broad, he had two gun's discharged at him.
One ball grazed his cheek ; the other pas
sed through his fide, giving him a flight
wound. This Hubbard is one of thole peo
ple who went down the Tenefee laftfpriug
to attempt a settlement 011 the Muscle'
Shoals ; and there are ftrofig reasons to
suspect that the guns were fired by his two ;
foils, -minors who live with him. By the
Indians helscalled the Fool Warrior, from
the Similarity of his character to that of an:
Indian fellow, thus distinguished by his
killing people in time of peace, and decli
ning such acts in time of war. Left it
should be supposed, by such a-, are unac
quainted with the frontier settlers, that
such conduct meets their approbation, it is
thought neceflary to observe, that it is by
them generally hel Ift abhorrence*. They
are perfectly pitafed with the ate treaty
ofHolfton, and are determined to pielerve
it inviolare 011 their part, firmly relying <
that, in so doing, they will ever receive the
support and protection of government
On the fifth day of April last, a party of
Indians, fuppoled to be Cherokee,s, stole a
number of horses from Cox's station, and
the neighbourhood thereof, in Powel's val
ley, Virginia.—They took the Kentucky
trace, thro* Cumberland mquntain to V el -
low Creek, to which place they were fol
lowed by two men, who returned without
overtaking them. Col- Cox then set out
with 9 party of men down Powel's valley
to a gap in Cumberland mountain, where
he wa per/uaded they mull: pass in recrof
fing the mountain to reach their' towns, if
Cherqkees. 011 li« way down, about 2
o'clock in the morning of the 6th, near the
Indian old towns, and thl*land known by
Henderfons survey, he fell in with an In
dian camp, he fired on, and killed a
Cherokee chief, calle-d Hoolaqah ; or, the
Big Acorn, and wounded two others, who
made their elcape—Among the articles
found in their camp were a number of hal
ters, fonie childrens apparel, and some cot
ton in quills.
The Kentucky Gazette, of the 12th of
May, contains the following information,
viz. A prisoner that was taken by the Indi
ans the week before lalt, has made his
elcape. He informs that he was taken by
fiCfcen Indians, and kept several days in the
settlement, during which time the Indians
obliged him to call families out of their
houses, while they lay in ambush, to mur
der them whenever they should appear ;
happily it had not the intended effect—part
-of the Indians were Delawares and the ba
lance Shawanefe they told him they
did not intend taking prisoners, except ne
groes, which they could fell at Detroit for
two kegs of tatfey, and wilhed him to con
duct them to where they could get negroes;
but informed them he knew of no place
where there were negroes, but what was
also strongly defended with white men —
they informed him that a number of their
men were encamped near the Ohio, on the
other fide : When they got near the Ohio
they (hewed signs of fear, the Ken
tuckians, had gone forward to the Ohio
to intercept them, and (top a few miles on
this lide to wait till night and cross before
day—in the courft; of the night whilst the
Indians were asleep, heloofed himfelf, by
chewing the cords.with which he was bound
an which were made of raw leather, and
made his escape.
MANOR BILL.
An Attempt is making in Ireland to efl:a
blilh Ma nor-Laws, for the benefit of the I
poor, and for the more convenient judgjpg
of petty suits at law. At present, in that
country, upon everfofinall a fuit,the plain
till' is obliged to go to the aflize court. —
The object of the bill is, that all suits un
der 40s. lhall be tried within the manor —
The observations of the Archbishop of
Caifiel on this occalion afford a linking
view of the difficulties a poor fellow la
bours under on these occasions,
"I will suppose (fays he) that a sum of
five (hillings is disputed for by two neigh
bours. It becomes necessary to resort to
a distant town where the assizes are held,
to fettle the dffpute as to the- property oi
the five (hillings : there are several days
spent in preparations for the journey.—
The suitor, after the loss of a week's time
in preparing for and performing the jour
ney, arrives in the aflize town, where he
finds (after long and difficult fearcl\) an ho
nefl attorney, ; who, notwithstanding his
integrity, knows full well the value of his
time—and the suitor is obliged to pay him
certain fix end eight fences f<}r his trou
ble. The attorney, who at firft saw a
very clear cafe, now discovers some lit
tle difficulty ; which, to overcome, it is
neceflary to have the aid of a lawyer ;
and, fortunately for the client, the attor
ney can recommend him to a very honest
and able gentleman in that profeflion ; two
guineas are, however, an indispensable pass
port to his acquaintance. Every previous
Hep to a trial is at length taken—when the
judge, to have a prodigious deal
ofheavybufinefson hand,is obliged to lay a
side suits of less weight,among which is that
of the suitor in queition, who after a loss of
many days,and fix or seven pounds, returns
home to wait for fix months more, when,
perhaps the fame occurrence again involves
the fame expences, with the fame success.
On his return he meets a friend, and they
repair to a whiskey shop ; there the consti
tution of Ireland is the fubjeft of discourse ;
and its perfection, no doubt, the theme of
his. friend's praile : in its commendation
however our suitor is not willing to join.
! don't (fays he) pretend to judge of the theory of
the conjhtution, but as to the executive fart of it, I
declare I havt no cause to celebrate it, and I'll tell
youaflory tojuftifyny ajfertion." He accor
dingly relate, his calamitous attempt to re
cover five (hillings ! —Now, my lords, were
the cause to be decided in a manor court
the sole expence incurred would not ex
ceed fiveihillings and eleven pen«e half pen
ny' ,
On the present slate of the poor in England.
VERY few poor labourers, See. can now
spare so much money from their fcauty
weekly earnings, as to buy a little malt ;
iwnfequently their general liquor, in their
1 families, is water ; or. if nature sometimes
craves and is indulged with fomthtng stron
ger.by luchas labour hard, it is purchased
at a dear rate from or at public houses.
It was formerly the common custom of the
of labourers and artificers toyurchafe
on market days, t\vo or gallons of
malt, wh.ch would'perhaps brew tolerable
good table beer for the week ; but the in
creased duty, and the advanced price of
barley, now generally render this imprac
ticable. Here it may be acknowledged,
that there is tap much occalion for a re
mark, that their poverty,
many of thelabourers,&c. spend mucli of
their timeand money in public houses ; but
admitting that "the wicked will do wick
•' edly," and add, "drunkenness to their
thirst," of strong liquors, although their
fanmies may be in,, a starving condition ;
is that a reason againfl the wants and mise
ries of the industrious virtuous poor being
deeply pondered, and A'ery proper rational
effort made to alleviate their tliftrefiesf
The labouring man who now wants a mu"
of malt liquor, has this excuse for
to drink it in a public-house, ' I cannot af
ford to keep it for my family, and- if I
'• drink it at home it is very painful to me
41 to with-hold a flwre of it from my wife,'
&c. and thus perhaps many more are intro
duced to fitting in public houses, and be
come more habituated to drinking, than
would be the cafc, could they have beer of
a middling strength in their own. But to
return to my fubjeit.
Except in counties where it is very poor,
and therefore fold at .a low price, cheese
can now scarcely be tailed by the poor, al
though it was a principle article of their
food within the time I have tQgntioned.
} At tins period, wheat was from three
(hillings to three killings and pence - '
barley, eighteen pence to two and twenty'-
some lower than either ; malt, twofhillingS
and fix pence. I have known gbod new
milk cheese bought from r 2 to 14s. per cwt
and it was commonly fold in the hucksters
hops for seven farthings or two pence per
lb.; now .t is more than double, and forte
forts more than treble that price, retail.
Butchers meat upon an average, is nearly,
(if not quite) doublets former price ; the
!*>or may look at it and figl, f or it in the
markets, but very little of it mult fall to
the iharff ofmany of thfm. I know what
I fay, when I assert.that iinlefs it be given
them,fome and I fear man;, do not taste a
moriel of butcher's meat for many months;
yet these are the poor of rich Kngland ! In
what other nation lhall we find more mise
rable ? %
tf the poor are considered as the feet of
a nation, (qpportjng its weight, every wife
government will attend minutely to their
t-afe and support, confidently with the ilate
wherein providence has placed them ; and,
while by lahitary laws, well executed, it
re I trains them from, or punishes them for,
vice in its varied forms, wilf endeavour al
so that they lhall be placed<in a capacity to
lupply their own wants. In whatever
Hate this found policy is wanting, it mult be
.tuowed to be alio deficient in wisdom and
hurrfuuty, as well as in chriftiani'ty. This
unexpected remark naturally leads to some
others which I am about to make, refpec
tir.g the causes of the high prices of provi
lions, and I wijh it may make way for their
cordial reception.
t Perhaps it would notkamifs to colder toht
j therthe firefent high duty on malt for home use, be
not both oppiejjive and impohtich. Opfireffive it
certainly is to tb.owfo heavy a tax on the boulders
oj thelabouringpoor; andit seems equallympo
htick to aaopt anyfyflem o ffinance uhichtends in
its deration, as this unqvefhonably does, to decrease
the quantity of labour, by driving the men to the
ale house, and of cowje to lejen the export of our
own mannfoßures.
Thefollowing is the celebrated
French revolution song,
with A translation.
Ca IRA.
AH ! ca ira, caira, ca ira,
Le peuple, en ce jour fans celfe repet' ah !
Ah I caira, ca ira, caira,
Malgre inutftis toutreuffira.
Nos enemis confus en res-tent la
, Et nous all-ons chanter Al-le-lu-iall,
All . ca ira, ca ira, ca ira,
Quand Boileau jadis du clerge, par la,
Comme un propheteil a predit ce la,
En chantant ma chan-fonnet avec plaifir on
enra,
Ah 1 ca ira, ca ira, ca ira,
Malgre mutins tout-reu-ffi-ra
Ah 1 ca ira, ca ira, ca ira.
translation.
Ah ! this will do, this will do, this will do \
1 he people lhall for e'er repeat,
Ah ! 'twill do, 'twill do, 'twill do,
In fpiteof trafaof.} we'll fu'cceed.
Our enemies, confus'd lhall (land,,
\\ Hallelujah chants our band,
Ah . 'twill do, 'twill do, 'twill do I
In days of yore so sung Boileau,
His prophecies of Gallic church,
VV ith pleasure lhall my strain repeat."
Ah ! 'twill do, 'twill do, 'twill do. *
In spite of traitors we'll fncceed !
NEW-YORK & PHILADELPH IA STAGES,
Via Bordcntown & Burlington,
And SHREWSBURY & PHiLADSLPHIA
STAGE,
Via. Bordenroivrt,
THE proprietors of the Ntiv-York Pbila
delfbia land and -water Stages beg leave to
mention, that for the better accommodation of
p , e "?' rs > y haVe t,lOu B ht prooer to remove
', ie . P ackct boats f'om their former
ttand at the Crooked Billet wharf, to the 'wharf
or dock immediately next beiciv Arch-Street, from
whence, £ » the frfl day Juy next, and after,
■wards, a convenient packet-boat will flare for
New-York, as usual, on every Sunday, Tutfday,
Wednefdayand f bur/day, a„d return on every
Tuj-Jday, Thurjday, Friday and Saturday, Tire
paiiage to be made cither by the way of Borden
town or Burlington, each place to'be taken al
ternately. Fare for Pajengers from Philadel.
phia to New-Yoik T s s.-Kor Goods pr cut. &s
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
DAVID WILItIAMSON,
il r ,' s ," rs of the lineof Nsw-York and Phi
ladelphia Stages, by the route of Bordentown.
JACOB MYERS,
AMOS HUTCHIN,
NICHOLAS SCHENK,
Proprietors of the line of N. Yo.k and Phila,
delphia Stages, by rile route of Burlington.
The Sbre-wjbury Stage will leave Philadelphia
in the months ot July and September, on every
Sunday and Wednesday, ar.d return on every
TuefJay and Friday . In the month of August,
it will leave Philadelphia on every Sunday anJ
Thursday, and return on every Tuesday and Sa
turday.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
DANIEL LOT,
Propi ietorj of the Shrewlbury and Philad. Stage.
Bordentoivv, June 25, 1792.
For freight or paflage apply to the matters on
board, or to M'KEAN & V. EMBURGH,
at their stores on said wharf, immediately next
below Arch-ftreef.
Philadelphia, June 27.
For .freight or pafl'age to Lamberton or Tren -
ton, alfg apply as abtfvc* jaw ifJ The VILLAGE MERCHANT.
[-Continuedfrom No. 66.]
\'^^^ r ELL—strange it is that fools will still ap-
Vrhings to themselves, that authors never meant;
Sach country shop-man a(ks me, " Is it I
<J\iuhcm your r hinting ridicule is [pent ?
Friends, hold your tongues—Such myriads of
your race
Adorn Columbia's fertile, favour'd dimes ,
A man might rove seven years from place to place
Ere he would find the of my rhymes—-
Perhaps in Georgia is this creature kn^vn,
Perhaps Rhode-lfland claims him for her own :
And if from fancy's world this wight I drew,
What is the imagin'd character to you ?
NOW, from all parts the rural people ran
With ready cafli to buy what migljfbe bought ;
One went to chufe a pot, and one a pan,
And they that had no caih their produce brought,
A hog, a calf, fafe halter'd bf the neck,
Potatoes (Ireland's glory) many a peck J
Eacon and cheese, of real value more
Than India's gems, or all Potofi's or#.
t
Some questions afk'd, the folks began to stare- —
Ns foul wou'd purchase pipe, nor pot, nor pan ;
Each fhookJhis hsad---hung back—year goods so
* dear !
In fan (said they) the devil's in the man"
«' Rum ne'er shall meet my lips ("said honed Sam)
" In fhapc of toddy, punch, grog, fling, or
•< No cash of mine you'll get (said pouting Kit?)
" While gauze is valued at so dear a rate."
Thus things dragg'd on for many a tedious day,
No custom came, and nought but discontent
Gloom'd through the fliop " Well let them
have their -way,
(The merchant laid) Li!fell at cent per cent;
By which 1 fearce myfelf fhallfave,
lor cent per cent is jull the price I gave."
«< Ay**faid the 'squire, who still had kept his
pence) .
" Now, fir, vou reason like a man of sense ! /-
" Cujlom will now from every quarter come ;
" In cealeiefs streams (hall flow the infpiringrum,
"Till every foul in pleasing dreams is funk—
" And even our Sptrtf/es—-himfelf—-is drunk .
Soon were the fltelves dilburthen'd of their load ;
In three lhort hours the keg of wine ran dry—»
Swift from its source even dull molafles flow'd—
Each saw the rum-calk wafting with a sigh : —
*' Here lies a worthy corpse (Sangrado said)
" Its debt/o drunkards now, no doubt, is paid —
«' Well-—'twas a vile disease that kill'd, it Aire ;
" A quick consumption, that no a*rt could cure !
" Thus shall we all, when life's vain dream is out,
" Be lodg'd in corners dark, or kick'd about !
" Time is the tapster of our race below,
"That turns the key, and bids the juices flow—
" Quitting r>/ books, henceforth be mine the
task
" To' moralize upon this empty cask—
« Thank heaven, we've had the tafte---fo far
'twas well—-
" And still, thro' mercy, may enjoy the smell !'
»##»#*
[Ccetera defunt.]
— i. ■uMii.uwja i >m ——
On the probability of the moon being inhabited.
A Mulberry leaf is a little world, inhabited
'frequently by a multitude of invisible worms,
which to them is a country of vast extent. What
mountains, what abysses there are in it i, the
infects on one fide of this leaf know no more of
their fellow creatures on the other, than you and
I can tell what they ate now doing at tlie Anti
podes : Does iyiot appear reasonable, therefore,
that this great pianet, the moon, fliould be inha
biteetf—ln the hardest ftcnes, (in marble for in
' fiance) there are an infinity of worme which fill
up the vacuums, and feed upon the substance of
the stone ; fancy, then, millions of living crea
tures to subsist many years on a gfain of sand ;
so that were the moon but one continued rock,
1 would'fooner allow her to be gn.vye i by these
invilible mites, than not to be habited. In
short, every thing is animated ; imagine then
those animals which are jet undiscovered, and
add them and these which are but lately disco
vered, to what we have always seen, and you
will find the earih swarm with inhabitants, and
that nature has so liberally furnifhed it with ani
mals, that she is not at all concerned for our not
feeing above one half or them : Why then ihould
nature, which is fruitful to an excess here, be so
very sterile in the moon and other planets as, in
the opinion ol some, to produce qo living things
In them ?
All human faces, in general, are of the fame
model ; and yet the Europeans aad Africans
have two particular moulds ; nay, commonly,
every family has a different afpeft ; what secret
then has nature to shew so much variety in the
single face ? Our world, in refpefl of the uni>
verse, is but a little family, wherein every face
has some resemblance to cach other ; in another
planet is another family, whose faces have a dif
ferent air and make : the difference, too, en
creases with the diftanc, for whosoever should
fee an inhabitant of the moon and an inhabitant
of the earth would soon perceive they were nearer
neighbours than one of the earth, and one of Sa
turn : here, frfr example, we have the use of
voice ; in another world they speak by signs ;
and at a greater distance they do not, perhaps,
speak at all ; here our reason is formed by ex
perience j in the r.ext world experience contri
butes but little towards reason j add in the next
to that, old men know no more than children.
Here we are troubled more with what is to come,
than with what is past. In the next world they
are more troubled for what is past than what is to
come ; and farther off they are not concerned
with either, which by the bye, I think is much
the better : here, it is thought, we want a sixth
sense, that would teach us many things, of which
we are now ignorant ; this sixth sense is appa
rently in another world, where they want one of
the five which we enjoy ; nay, perhaps, ihere is
a much gieater number of senses, but ia the par
tit*on we have made of them with the inhabi
tants of the other planets, there are but /all
en to our fliare, with which we are well content
ed, for want of being acquainted with the reft :
Our sciences have bounds which the wit of man
could never pass j there is a point where the)
fail us on a fuddenj the reft is reserved for other
worlds, where somewhat which ive know is un
known to them. This planet (the earthy enjoys
the pleasures of k>ve, but lies desolate in several
places by the fury of war 5 in another planet they
enjoy perpetual peace, yet in the midst of that
Wace, know rfot any thing of love, and time lies
heavy on their hands. In jpwofd, that which
nature pradtifes here in little, irt distributing her
gifts among mankind, she large in other
worlds, where /he makes use of that admirable
fccret {he has to diversify all things, and at the
fame time makes them equal, by compensating
for the inequality. . \Fonttnelle.\
On the AGE of MAN. v
WHEN the constitution of the body is found,
it ppflible perhaps, by moderation in the po
tions, temperance and sobriety, to lengthen out
the period of life for a few years. But even of
[his there seems to be an uncertainty ; lor, if n
is neceflarv that the l>ody fhonlH employ its whole
Strength, that it (hould consume whatever it is
:apable of consuming, that it should undergo
; veiy pollible exercise, whence could any benefit
accrue from regimen and from abstinence ? Men
no doubt there are who have furpafi'ed the usual
period of human existence, an apple will now
and then be found hanging on a tree the latter
snd of November, long after the.others are dis
appeared and rotten. Not to mention Parry tae
englishman, who liv'd to the age of one hun
dred and forty four, and Jenkins, to that of one
hundred and fixty-five, as recorded in the philo
sophical tranfaftions ; we have many usance*
of the prolongation of life to one hundred anti
ten, and even to one hundred and twenty years.
Yet this longevity was occasioned by no peculiar
art or nvnagement. On the contrary, it ap
pears, that the generality ot such long livers were
peasants accustomed to the greatelt fatigues j
huntsmen, or labourers 5 men, in fa£t, who had
•mployed theif whole bodily strength, and even
abused it, if to abuse it is pollible, otherwiie
than by continual idleness and debauchery.
If fn the duration of lite there is any difference
to be found, it ought fecmingly to be ascribed to
the quality of the air. In elevated situations, it
has been obferved,there are commonly found more
old people than in such as are low. In general,
however, the period, of human existence may be
said to be the fame Iti every country. If not cot
offby accidental diseases, mankind [in Europe] is
found to live to the years of ninety or an hun
dred* Beyond that age the rac%)f man has in
never lived. 1
From a careful infpe&ion of the Registers of
burials in a certain number of country parishes in
France, compared with the mortality of Paris,
:he following table has been made out, of the pro
bable duration of human life.
Y. Y. M. Y. Y. M. Y. Y, M.
0 8. c"| 29 28. 6 j 158 12. 3
1 33. o 30 28. o 159 11. 8
2 38. c 31 27. 6j ;6o 11. 1
3 40. o 32 26. 11] 61 10. 6
4 41. e 33 26. 3 1 62 io- o
5 4i- 6 34 25. 71 63 9.6
6 42. o 35 25. o 64 9. o
7 42i 3 36 24. 5 65 S. 6
8 41. 6 37 23. 10 66 8. o
.9 40. 1 3S 23. 3 67 7. 6
10 40. 2 39 22. 8 63 7 • O
11 39. 6 40 22. 1 69 6. 7
12 38. 9 41 21. 6 70 6. 2
13 38. 1 42 20. 11 71 5. 8
14 37- 5 'i 43 2 °" 4 72 5. 4
15 36. f 44 J 9* 9 73 5* 0
'16 36. o 45 19. 3 74 4. 9
17 35. 4 4<> 9 75 4* 6
>8 34. & 47 18. 2 1 76 4. 3
19 .{4. <• 48 17. 8 77 4 1
20 33. 5 49 ! 7» *| 3* 11
21 32. ij 50 16. 7 1 79 3-9
22 32. #4 51 16. oj 80 3. 7
23 31. ic 52 15. 6 jßi 3. 5 /
24 31. 3 53 15- 0 3-3
25 ic, 9 S4 *4* 6 8.3 3. 2
26 30. 2 55 14. o; 84 3. 1
27 29. 7 56 13. 5 JSS 3. o
28 29, C 57 I 2« 10 J
From this table it appears that it is reafonabl)
[0 be expe£Us, or, in other words, that we may
lay our bet one to one, that an infant nfwly
born will live eight years ; that an infant if one
lear old will live thirty-three years longer 5 that
an infant of two years old will live thirty eight
>ears longer j that a man of twent/ will live
lhirty-three years and five mOniite. longer j that
i man of thirty will live twenty years long
er j and so proportionally of every other age.
[Buffon.
Dean Swift's CANDID CONFESSION.
v DEAN SWIFT, who is well known
peen the principal champion of monarchy during
the greater part of his life, was, in the latter
part of it, compelled by his own experience to
change his mind, and Jive his teftimcny in favor
of republics'. Having, used some exprefiions in
The Pre/byter;atis y Plea of Merit," written in
| 31, whicn might seem to reflect on republican
governments, he obviates such a conftrudtion by
the following words : " I do not fay this in di
minution or difgracc to commonwealths, wherein I
cdnfefs I have much altered many opinions under
which I was educated, having been led by some
observation, long experience, and a thorough de
testation of the corruptions of mankind: insomuch
that I am now justly liable to the censure of Hobbs
who complains that'the youth of England imbibe
ill opinions from reading the histories of ancient
Greece and Rome, those renowned scenes of li
berty and every virtue."
Such a confeffion, extorted by experience and
observation from a man no less di/tinguiihed for
his knowledge of the world than his profound ge
nius, in contradiction to the prejndices of edu
cation, the piide of former opinions committed
to the public In various Works of his pcn» ob
an uccadon where his religious animosities and
personal interest conspired with other motives to
favour his original impressions, is a severe satire
against the corruptions of kingly government, and
ought r» be an antidote to all
tendL to p&l'on the republican chara&er ana oon
(Vkunons ps America.
V '792. V . \
S-l.
_ rr
* B S, '
• Printid andptid by
\ MAT H|W -CM. 11 EYA
' No. 118, Philadelphia)^
1. American MufounK from its rommencMlent
in January 1757, toHJecember 1791, in tenuis.
reat b bound a<iy lettered, sixteen dollai\
t J his 'work, wbu&Js now conducted on aMK
proved pian, contanung the befl pieces
and again/1 tbe profydings of government, -will bi
favnd to contain as as great a variety of
agricultural, andmijcellaneous usftuiy
ever published in America. Perhaps in no one
are Jo many valuable documents reJpeEling tbe £&!!-
this country, colle&ed together. His JR/-
Prejident of tbe United States, has de
clared of it, that " i more ufcfuj literary plan
has never been undertaken in America, nor one
more deserving of public encouragement." Ibe
fuifcriptiott is two dollars and a half per annum.
Gentlemen in the country <wbo ivifh to be supplied
with this ivork, are requcjied togivecommiffion to
friends in the city to fubjeribe f or and receive it.
2. Ladies Pocket Library—— containing
More's EJj'ays ; Gregorys Legacy ; Lady Pen
nington's aavice ; Marchionejs of Lanibei t's ad
vice 3 Swift's letter to a newly married lady :
Airs. Chapone on command of temper j More's fa
bles for the ladies Price 6/6.
3. Smith's History of New-York./-cm its fir h
settlement tb theycar 1732. To which is annexed,
a description of the country, with a Jhort account
of the inhabitants, their religious and political Jlatc
and the cmfliiution of the count of juftice—Prict
a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, 1.1.d. profefjor of moralpbilofophy and logic
in fke Marifchal College, Aberdeen — Price tbrei
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Critical Re
viewers (vol. 69. p. 628 J fay : " We have fee,,
nothing on tbefe fubjecls more plain, more perfpicu
lus, or ye generally ufeful»" ,
5. Beetles of Poetry, British arj American,
containing fileci produßions of tbe mofi eminent Bri
r tfb and American poets. Price four fifths of a dol.
t>. Blair s Sermons, containing the whole of tht
free volumes of the British edition, in twtr. Price
f ivo dollars. -*»
7. Ncckar's Treatifi on the importance of reli
rious opinions. Price four fifths of a dollar.
. Examination cf the observations of Lord Shef
field son American Commerce. Price, on very fine
taper, five eighths rf a dotlar.
9. she Conflitutions of the several United States,
wttb the federal Conffhution, &c. Price five
ugbtbs of a dollar•
10 M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition in
12mo. Price three eighths of a dollar.
u« American Jest Book, In tivo parts, nvith
two very r.cat engravings• Price bound, three
fifths of a dollar.
12. Garden of the Soul, by Bi/hop Chalenor.
Price, bound plain, half a dollar, in calf and let
'red three quarters of a dollar, plain 1-2 dol,
1 3* Douay of the vulgate Bi
ne >in quarto. Price, elegantly bound and lettered
$0/2---plain, fix. dollars.
Said Carey has for sale, a large assortment oj
iooKs, European as 'well as American editions.,
which ue ivill dispose of on the mofl reasonable terms,
country gentlemen, <wlo favor him 'with commands,
ma y de P end upon being /applied in the mofl fatisfac -
ory manner. A liberal allowance to such as, pur
:bafe quantities for public libraries, or to fell a vain.
Ma M7. 6m. 1 a.w.
This day impublijhed,
And to be fold at No. 54, S. Second-flreet
By ROBERT CAMPBELL,
And BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147. Market-street,
\_PriCt tenJhill'n\gs, neatly bound]
The New Art of Cookery,
According to the present pra&ice ;
Being a complete Guide to all Housekeepers,
on a plan entirely new—
Confining of thirty,eight Chapters.
—Containing—
PROPER diie&ions tor marketing, and trus
sing of poultry j The making soups and
broths ; Drefiing all lorts of fith j Sauces for eve
ry occasion : Boiling and roasting j Baking, broil
ing and fryrng j Stews and ha/hes ; Made dirties
ofeyery fort j Ragous aryi fricafees j Diredlions
for drefiing all forts of rbots and vegetables} All
forts of aumleti eggs; Puddings, pies, tarts,
fee; Pancakes and fritters; Cheesecakes & Cuft
ardsj Blancmange, jellies, and syllabubs j Direc
tions for the sick j Preserving, syrups, and con
serves 5 Drying and candying 3 All for ts of cakes 5
Hogs puddings, sausages, &c 5 Potting, and little
cold dishes ; The art of carving ; Collaring-, sal
ting, and foufmg ; Pickling *, To keep garden
vegetables, &c 5 Made Wines; Cordial Waters 3
Brewing; English and French bread, &c.
By RICHARD BRIGGS Many years Cook
at the Globe-Tavern, Fleet-street, the white-Hart
Tavern, Holborn, and now at the Temple Coftee
houf«, London.
*J* Subscribers to the National Gazette, who
wifli to have their papers sent by any cither con
veyance than the public mail» are desired tfo no
tify the fame to the editor (their letters on this
fubjeft to be post-paid by themfclves.)
*** For fait at this Office., Sermons by
the liev'd Dr. William Linn, of N. York.
Price 5/7 1-2.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Subscriber has it in conremplalio^hoh.tt
decline bis present bufincfs —and
band a considerable quantity of J'uperfine fecoruhlM
elafiic cloibs, together with a variety of
cles iruhis way, proposes to fell tbem at the
reduced prices- VIZ. \ ,
v Bejl Superfine navy blut 34*> \f \
Ditto, ditto. Scarlet s. \ \
Common colours fuperfir.e 1
Elafiic firipes
V. London buff and white cdffimers I \
Ditto, coloured do.
l Yorhjhire do.
Striped toilenets 14 s '
Rattinets x 3s.
Striptd Nankeens 3/4*
A variety of waificoatfiapes prcportionably lew,
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London bejiJiik hop, from 22/6 to 245.
The above goods have been piofily imported from
one of tbei firji Mercantile houses in London, arid
are of an equal quality to any imported into Ameri
ca ; they will be fold per ficceor smaller quantity
as may befi suit the pur chafers ; by th-publics most
humble servant, JOHN .SHEPHERD*
No. 3 South Fourtb-ftreet.
\ (C 5" Any person difoofed to purchase the whols
of the above ft'ock, may also have on reasonable
terms hit present dwelling house, together with,
the stores a more eligible fit'uation for bufmefs in
the tailor's line ii not to be found in this city.
Th%advantage of this business being so well elta
blifhed by the proprietor will be very great, ani
from well known facts, needs no comment,
A lease of fix, years may be had of the houfc.
May 14, tf.
PROPOSALS
For Printing by Svbfcription,
PUBLIC REPORTS
FROM THE
executive departments
OF THE
Government of the United States
CONGRESS,
Commencing with the present Government, and end
ing with the close of the Scffion.ofMay 179 a.
THIS work is intended to be printed in one
volume o&avo, efiimated to contain between five
and fix hundred pages,'and will be delk'ered to
fubferibers in boards at One Dollar and a half.
A complete colleflion of the Reports into a
convenient and portable volume has been fug
gelled to the publilhers by several Membey of
Congress and other gentlemen, and they are now
determined to proceed 011 with the work, provi
ded a competent number of fubferibers appear
to patronize the undertaking.
Subscriptions are-received by CHILDS and
SWAINE, the publilhers, No. 2C9, Market
flreet, Philadelphia, and by the principal Cook ,
fellers in the United States.
May 24.
THIS DAY ARE PUBLISHED,
[In Octavo —Price 2/9.
the
LAWS of the United States,
Faffed at the
Firfl Seilion of the Second Con^/efs,
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORttr.
To which are added the Ratifications of the
Amendments to the Constitution, by the several
ratifying States; the Armistice between the Uni
ted States and Great-Britain ; and the Treaty of
Friendlhip with the Cherokees,'which,
with those in the other otlavo volume completes
all the exifiing treaties.
Philadelphia, printedby CHILDS & SWAINE,
Printers of the Laws of the United States, and
fold by them, at their office, No- 209, Market
street j also by the principal Boohfellers in the
city.
* # * The Laws are in Mue paper, and
are intended to be bound up with those of the
next fefiion, so as to make one volume, com
prising alKhe Laws pasTed by the Second Con
gress, when a.complete Index will be added for
both sessions.
The LAWS of the _ *
Three Seflions of the Fi*ft Congress,
With a complete Index, io one volume o&avo,
may be had as above.
Philadelphia, May 17th, 1792.
A FARM FOR SALE.
%
be fold chcap for cash, a Farm situated cn the
Banks, and on the north fide of the river Rari
fan in the fiate of New-J e>fey ; eight miles from the
tity of New-Brunfwic, and one from the town of
Bound Brook, 191 acres, and 40 acres,
about a mile difiant apportioned to it for woodland:
tri this fat* has lately been ereEled a neat and
convenient house 28 by 34 feet neatly finifhtd,
built on a cellar the dimenjions of the house, iviti*
a kitti en firming awing 24 by 18 feet completed :
50 acres of it being meadow renders this place tru
ly -valuable 5 the healthy airy and pleasant situation
makes it an agreeable feat for a gentleman • the
meadow and fertility of the foil, an objeEf so r the
farmery its being furrour.ded by the mofl wealthp
and opulent farmers in the fiate, a very eligible
stand for afiore. "The ride to and from Brunfwic t
on either fide of the river, is delightful: for the'
price apply to the editor of the National Gazette.
j 6w iaw«
PRINTED BY
CHILDS AND SWAINE,
AT THIIR OFFICE, NO. 209, HIGH-STRE&T
WEAR FIFTH-STREET,
fHII.A9Zr.PK PA.