Vol. I.
Mr. Freneau,
A Correspondent requests you to
insert the inclosed from the Independent
Gazetteer, of Sept. 15. —
To the Philadelphia Sccicty for the Promo
tion of Agriculture and domcjlic Manufac
tured
Gentlemen,
HAVING cultivated Fi.ax with con
siderable profit and advantage, I
\vilh to recommend it as an ohjeft merit
ing greater attention from our Farmers,
r The use of flax is as nocefl'iry in our
cloathing, as wheat in our nounihment—
cmr foil and climate are as well adapted
to raise the one as the other. Why then
should we remain under obligations tod ilia nt
foreign nations for this valuable article ?
It is fuggelted that it is cheape. - to pur
chafe imported linen than to raise flax,
and manufacture for ourselves. I always
entertained doubts of the truth of this opi
nion, and am now convinced from the
experience of fcveral yeais that it is totally
without foundation.
Some good husbandmen object to flax,
because they fay tt exhaufls the £ oil more
than any other crop : I have not found j
this to be the cafe; during the lail sum
mer I cultivated flux and potatoes ia the
fame field ; each crop had an equal quan
tity of manure; on gat hering an excellent
crop of flax in July, the ground was irri
mediately plowed, and sowed with turnip-;
produce, one hundred bushels of good tur
Dips per acre ; on removing the crops of
potatoes and turnips, about the middle ofj
October, the g-ound was put into wheat :
the wheat on the fl ix and turnip ground
thts-bsrreftnvas fuUyeqiial, if not superior,
to the wheat on the potatoe ground.
Another objection to flax is, that it is
a very uncertain crop : on good ground,
under proper cultivation, no'crop will bet
ter anfwtr the expectation of the farmer.
Flax will grow and flower on anv foil, but
it requires a rich loam or clay to bring it
to perfection for the use of the farmer
The liilh, who for many years have had
gre-.t experience in the cultivation of this
valuable plant,generally railed it in ground
manured and planted with potatoes the
preceding year. They sow on such ground
three and four bushels of the bell Riga or
American feed to the acre. May not the
fintnefs ofthelriih flax be owing to this
thick towing, rather than to their flax be
ing pulled btfoie it is ripe ? It is said the
Flemings never pull the flax intended for
their fin cambrics and linen until the feed
is ripe. - The quality of the flax may aifo
depend very much on thefutare operations
of rotting, breaking, and hackling.
In America, flax is for the mod part
rotted, by being laid thin on a graf3 field :
The time required in this operation de
pends on t>>e drynefs or wetness, heat or
cold of the season : Flax is judged to be
fnfficiently grafled when its bark is a little
blistered towards the extremity of the
plant, and when it parts easily from the
reed, which at this time becomes very
brittle: but no written description car
pofiibly convey a knowledge of this point
at all equal to that wl ieh is acquired by
experience. I have exposed flax in tht
months of August, September, and OISO
ber, and ha e aiwayi found that it rottec
in August the best ; and am informed, by
of experience, that the injury
the flax is said to receive by the
heat of the midsummer fun, is by no means
equal to the benefit it receives by being
quickly maturated.
When the flax is exposed in a variety
of weather in a cold season, the putrefac
tion necessary to loosen and destroy the
cohesion of the fibres of the flax from the
reed, is so tedious as frequently to injure
the fibres themselves. Mills have been
ercfted for breaking ivf flax, but. the fuc
.cifs attending them hath never warranted
their g< neral use - ; recourse is flill had to
the Dutch hard-brake. I have seen n foot
By P. FRENEAU: Publijlicd Wednesdays add Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum .
WEDNESDAY, October 24, 1792.
machine for swingling or scutching, by
which one man can scutch fifty weight
per day : this is double the quantity that
can be performed by one perfo by hand in
the fame time. The labour and expence
of dressing flax lVwithout doubt the great
est objection to its cultivation j but in
these po nts Europeans have no advantage
over us, as they, in every initance, are fub
jeft to the fame difficulties.
Flax is certainly one of those neceflary
articles which we should cultivate in fuf
ficient quantity to enable us to supply our
selves with every kind of linen, because our
country is as well calculated for it as any
other. Whatever other nations, on ac
count of climate or situation, can raiieand
fell cheaper than we can do, and are wil
ling to exchange for the pioduce of our
farms, or indnftry, let us import from
abroad. This is the basis oijujlpolicy, true
economy, and genuine liberty.
I am, Gentlemen, with great refpe&,
Your's, &c. GEO. LOGAN
Read before the Society, Sept. 3. 179 2
[_From the Gizctte of the United States
oj Oftoler 20 1
Mr. Fevno,
I REQUEST you to inform the " Ci.
tizen of Philadelphia," through youi
Gazette, that he has made some very ma
terial errors and misrepresentations, in his
statement, which appeared in your paper
of the loth of Odtober.
To the duty on spirits distilled within
the United States he objeAs, because the
nature of its co!le£h'on requires an autho
rity in the excise officer, to enter the do
mains of every individual ; to infpeft his
private btitfnefa -and cr.nccrns, and even
search his molt retired apartments, bed
rooms and closets. —Now, fir, as we natu
rally look for the extent of that authority
in the a& of Congress, let the " Citizen
of Philadelphia" point out the fpeeiah
clause of the adl where this extensive pow
er is given—and if he is well minded, let
him also rectir to the provisions that have
been made against the abuse of any official
power.
The " Citizen of Philadelphia," has
been told, as he informs us, the colleflion
of the excise coils at present about 12
per cent. lam told that according to
positive regulations, it cannot exceed 7|
per cent. I have also been informed,
there is a profpeift that the proceeds of
this branch of the national revenue, if it
shall go fairly into operation, will amount
to more than has been calculated upon,
and that of course it will fully answer the
end for which it was intended. It appears
then that our Citizen and myfclf, are as vet
equally in the datk with regard to this
tax. Would it therefore not be prudent
to submit the iflue of it to a fair trial ?
The " Citizen of Philadelphia" will
permit me to take notice of another mifre
presentation he has made. In his plain
(latement of fact , which he offers in the
face of all the world, and challenges every
body to controv:rt, he aflVrts, that the
public faith was pledged in the moll solemn
manner, to the original public creditors.
Does he not know that the securities of
the United States were made payable to
Ihe fit ft holder, or his aflignee ? And for
what reason ? Undoubtedly to enable the
proprietor to make uie of his property, by
felling it for what it would fetch ; and
that the purchaser might at the fame time
be fafe in his bargain. Thus the public
faith was no more pledged to the firft hold
er, but to his affignec. And can it now in
juilice be violated ?—lt was altogether
upon this principle lhat Congress proceed
ed in the funding system ; and wkoevei
has attended to the debates of Congress on
thedifcrimination business—whoever is nol
actuated by sinister views, mud be fully
convinced, that in rejecting all djferimina
t on, Congress acted upon the broad bafn
of public justice, as becomes » nations'
legiflaturc.
Hence the idea is insulting to common
seise, that the Original creditors should he
ch.vged with the certificates they iiave re
ceived, at a lout 2J6 in. the poundj and the
balance paid in good money. How is it
:o he ascertained who f >ld out, and -who
Jii not ? After a certificate has changed
Dr. etors fifty, a hundred t mes ; palled
'' the progressive pi.ijes from 2/6
to ,*n Hie in what pianuer is
:!ii account to be adjulled ? Or does our
Jitiz£n mean that the government Ihould
aaf the supposed loss of 1 "jfb in the pound,
.ipon the whole mass of the original debt ?
[f hi can provide for an adequate revenue
jy a bare impost upon luxuries, a la bonne
heure, let reparation be made to tbofe ci
izens who iuffered by the public defici
:ncy. The author of such a icheme would
le-high y deferring of public praise. But
:he f aijfc is, it is an exhausted fund, and
ve in-e under no obligation tbthe " Citizen
>f Ph lacelp'nia" for his discovery, it ha
'iug long lince been a maxim in finance
o fciy high taites upon luxurious articles,
ven long before his iixth eflay was pu6-
ilhed. Metirife rjuemque fuo modulo cicpe
te, •Denim eji,
AMERICANUS.
October 15, 1792.
* •*
FOREIGN NEWS.
\_Exlracls from French Paper s.~]
Paris, Aug. 13.
Future times, dilinterefted in the con
mlfive movements of the prefect day, and
entertaining a temperate sense of liberty,
-viij no doubt be curious to examine by
what gradations Inch a natron' as France
Ranged her system of despotism for the
upremacy of laws. It may be said that
['"ranee has become free without fighting
or liberty : (lie has vindicated herfelf into
jeace and tranquility, after having utter
y destroyed the tyrannical inftitu' 1 ins that
lad preva led for more than 800 years.
iVhat a profpeft does she exhibit to the
lefpots of the universe ! Her example will
nfallibly work a reformation in the po'i
ics of every nation on the globe, and;
jlace the French at the head of the bene
attors of the humankind.
The PrulTian nation, for a century part,
las been little better than a compadt ar
ny. No other power has had an equal
weight, in the political balance of Europe,
vith great guns and bayonets. Pruflla has
.-ompelled all other powers to copy her ex
imple and to keep up well disciplined ar
nies. Through her me->ns Europe, even
n times of peace, has been overrun with
oldiers ; and it is principally owing :o
hem that France has, in a manner, loft
he character of a butchering nation, be
ng fupplantcd by these traders in human
jlood.
The son of lord Chatham (Mr. Pitt)
s the mortal enemy of France. He had a
land in fomenting our early divisions; and
.here is not a doub[ that he has been an
iftive inftrumeut in endeavouring to de
:ach our Weit-India colonies. He and
'lis friends have alio tried to al enaie the
iffe&ions of Spain, and break the alliance
between 11s. His plans were so well la d,
that at one time we were upon the point
us abandoning Spain forever In short,
the war we arc ,ow engaged in, maybe
imputed to the English, anj the
only, their government, and tiieir emissa
ries. A French alliance with England is
a political monster. She is, and always
has been our rival j and did we not Hand
in the way, (lie would be absolute mistress
of the sea. Abftra&ed from us, (he is the
enly rich and industrious nation, the only
one eil ghtened and free Hiitory is full
of her quarrels with Franee, and if Hie he
fitates a moment to attack us, it is only
to defer it to a more favorable time, when
she can do it with less danger to her
felf.
Numb. 103.
The effetfts of the revolution upon the
manners of France—lt has been observed
that it was scarcely worth while to make
a wife conllitution for such a people as the
French. That levity, which has always
liiigraced the national charaftc, if was
thought, would soon dedroy the mod pro
miling- hopes. The t uth is, the French
pian was always light and tnS'ng, because
hayipg nothing to do with affairs of le {il
lation, the natural animation of his foul
was compelled to evaporate in the imper
tinent fal'lies of imagination, chit-chat with'
women, and romantic extravagance. But
this was all for want of the solid food of
rhe mind. Frivolity will now vauifh be
fore that habit of reflexion which is nam
rally generated by aliir6 of confequcnce.
We fhail lose somewhat of our amiable
qualifications, but the fruits will be fu>>-
llituted for the flowers : ph:l ifophy has
apened ail eyes; truth has only to fhovr
ltrfelf to be embraced ; prejudices difap.
>ear, and reason, wliich has i'cattered at". J
iiffipated a thousand idle phantoms, re
vives the empire of liberty.
LlßEaty was conquered in Fiance, by
France universally ar ning herfelfagair.lt
t It can now only be fuppovted I; / the
:omplete humiliation of regal power ; a
uimiliation which (liall convince the world
hat the French as a nation are w'orthy
)f the place to which they have a'pired in
:he rank of rational bein£. If our armies
ire unfuci efsful in t::eir nril attempts, we
lave to fear the juration of ftveral other
-ourts with those air ady united against
is, who are no.v watching our motions in
ilence ; we will not even except those
wretched, beggarly princes, those delpi
:able apes of royalty, whose territories are
\nt vifiUc upon the chart of the world.
>ut whose mercenary slaves mny be
Drought forward to finite the sick lion,
tnd prove to the world that such wretche#
;xift. In every great revolution of na
:ure, millions of ftrangt animals ft art into,
rxillence ; the cafe is the fame in the con-,
/ulfions of nations : nature is never mora
.igorous, never more fertile in heroes than
n revolutions like this of France, where
:very paQion of the hum in heart is thrown
nto fermentation, and where every fpting
jf the machine of government tends in it»
jperations to a single point, to counteract
the attempts of enemies from without, and
traitors within, and thusrtnder everything
Fubfervient to the public will Hitherto,
all was slavery, and man was nothing ; now
:very one fufta ns the two-fold duty of
soldier and citizen : freemen and French
men are fynonimous terms; and under
that character they will oppose every ene
my 5 they will swear, like the Spartans of
aid, to return from battle either •with their
lueldj ox upon their (hields ; to penfh tin
ier the auipices of the tliTee-colouro! flag,
>r return conquerors, to receive the palms
that their grateful country awards them.
Lonrfon and Liverpool n6wfpapers are receiv
ed to the joth oF ' ugull from w..ich
the following articles are cxtrafted.
London, Aug. 28
All the cudcm-houre cutter-, at Portfmouih
were yelleday put under the command of ad
miral Loid Hood, and several other difpoiuionj
made, which are never adopted but for the pur»
poles of a general imprels ot seamen.
Whether iheie Heps indicate an intention in
our court to take an a£tive pari in the continen
tal di(|.utes. orwhether they are merely
nonary measures to enable us to a . as circum
flancesand found policy may afteiwaids dictate,
a little time will probably determine.
It is conftffed in Paris that the advanced
guaidof'the main army atFontenov has fuflaiiied
an attack by the Auftriaus, in which 400 men
fell on the fide of the French, though the ene
my was repulsed
The Di ke of Brunfwick was at Limemberg
for a few hours on the r 4th of this rnoaih.
On the filteenth came the king of Piuffia on
hoife back, whom the governor received at the
entrance of the town, and accompanied with
great form toil! the remarkable pasts us thefortiefs. After taking lome refreshment, he i
icturned on the fame day to the camp at Mont
fort.
Extraß of a letter brought by the Dutch mail yes-
Urday.
" The general M. de la Fayette, and twelve
officers of rank, who were making ftie best ot
their way 10 Holland, were flopped neat Liege,
and taken prifotiers by the Liegois legion ; ihe
general claimed the right of nations, being on
neutral ground, but he was given to enderftanc
that he mult submit to the right of arms, and
he was made piifoner with all his followers.
MUH'i
PARIS, August 13.
Address transmitted to the Jacobin club by
the merchants of Beauclair, 27th July.
" Legislators 1 Trade brings us together
at this prelent moment; but every kind of
interefi has made room for patriotism.
Every man, worthy of bearing the title of
French citizen, (hotild facrilice his very
exigence to it. You proclaimed the State
in danger. We immediately asked one an
other, how it was possible that 25 millions
of freemen could entertain an idea of being
■conquered, while a thoufaiid of Satellites,
led 011 by an Asiatic despot, fled before 300
free Spartans ?
"You fay we are in danger. Well I
who has brought us to the present crisis,
a crisis that exposes our liberty ? represen
tatives, you cannot be Rt a loss to know
the executive powef is the cause of all the
evils we labour under. Had the constitu
ent afTembly been well perluaded that tlcf
pots were incorrigible ; they would have
known that neither the English nor the Ro
mans would have succeeded in throwing off
the yoke of oppreflion, if the former had not
.changed the reigning dyiiafty, and hail riot
tlie latter banished Tvrquin for ever from |
.his vicious court. It was in vain that the
Tarquins at Rome, and Stuarts ill-London
swore to their fellow citizens that they
would refpeft public liberty. No Briton,
no Roman believed a fyllab'e of it; and the
Romans, still more severe, punished with
death the least correspondence With such
traitors.
" And yet the condiment aflembly could
have forgiven Louis XVI. a king who is
become an execration of all freemen, t»n
account of his guilty flight. Louis XVI,
who by an ast of the molt horrid dissimula
tion, exceeded in baseness the moll abhor
red despot.
"The constituent aflembly believed the
perfidious man was lincere ; they thought
they might confine by loading him
with wealth and prerogatives; the very tygers
lick the hand that carefies and feeds them
—there was no reason, then for despairing
to tame the monster we allude to with fa
vours ! such was the fatal prejudice that
hurried the constituent aflembly into the
senseless laws they enacted, laws injurious
to liberty, injurious to the holy rights of
inan.
" The die is cast, representatives, we can
consider Louis XVI. but as the moll crimi
nal and the mod dangerous ef our enemies.
" Who has fomented, who Itiil excites
trouble ?—Louis.-"-Who is the cause of
anarchy in France ?—-The executive pow
er, Louis.
" Who has countenanced, who still coun
tenances all the refractory priests ; all those
who might rebel against the general will?
Louis the child of executive power.
" Who has aflifted the rebel French,
those mor.fters who are coming to fight a
gainst their country and their relatives ?
" Who has armed the tyrants of Europe
against a free and peaceable nation ? Louis,
the executive power.
'• We deiire you to dethrone the traitor.
Open the volume of the law, and pass Sen
tence. Strike him, and you save your coun
try —Then, only then, we Shall have nei
ther unjust nor base judges, 110 Cromweils,
no Arnolds in our army.
Translation of a note tranlmitied from the Sm
ith court to the proviiionary council.
"In the absence of Lord Grenville, Mr.
Dundas declares that his Britannic mnjeliy is
afflicted with the deeped grief for the events
•hich have lately taken place at Paris, both on
account of the inttreft which he takes in every
thing , which concerns their mod chnftian majel
ties,and of his defirc to fee the kingdom of
France tranquil and happy. As it appears that
the e ercife of the executive power has been
■withdrawn from the hands of the king, his Bri
tainic majefly is of opinion that his anibaflador
has no occasion for remaining any longer at Pa
ris, this step being proper to manifeft his inten
tion of remaining neutral as to what concerns
the internal government of France. He is com
miflioned to expiefs his Britannic inajefty's soli
citude and auxiety for the fate of their moll
chrillian majelties. He expefls that their per
sons will be procefted fiom every kind of vio
lence ; the commiflion of which would excite
universal indignation throughout Europe."
Aug. 23" You will find by a letter from
M. jervan, that in the night between the 19th
and sotn, M. la Fayette went over to the ene
my. The manner is differently related. It
is said that he was made piifoner while recon
noitring ; by others, that he is gone to Holland,
in order 10 pais over 10 England.; but wuh
moie probability of truth, that tinder the pre
lice of opening the gates of Sedan to the earn- :
niiflioners of the national assembly, he and fe
vemeen of his eiat majors, among whom were
M. Altxandcy.Lanieth, M. Beauhamois, and
M. Gouvion, the brother "6f the general that
fell To gloriously, took the opportunity o!
throwing themselves into the hands ot one of
the advanced pofls of the eneiriy, and by which
they were made prisoners of war. There cer
tainly was no other way by which he could
save his life againll the decree of the Aflembly ;
which inftigatt'd every one to hunt him down.
" We have this day accounts that the coinmif
fioners have suspended M.Luckner. This fee
ble old man, whole Germanic thirst of money
would make him yield to every poilible con
dition, however foibid, the coinmiflioners, up
on enquiry, did not chufe to enlruft with the
late of France.
" You will fee that M. Montmorin was tak
en at the house of a washerwoman in the Fau
bourgh St. Antoine. His examination at the
bar of the aflembly wasvery interesting. His
dexterity in replying ra the members was admira
ble. He said, the letters found in the Thuil
leries were not addrefled to bim. He had no
apartments in the palace. There was another
Montmorin, Governor of Fontainbleau, and to
him poiiibly these letters might have been direc
ted. On feerching hirrt <fe*tiial<iofes of
were found m his pockets; but so perteft was his
address, that rt is tho't they will not find ground
for accusation in his conduct."
The dellitution of M. Luckner, and M.
Dillon, has followed the flight ol M. de la Fay
ette. The inaretchal has of late begun to
think his power somewhat independent ot the
legislative body, and M. Dillon's firtt letter,
after the ibth inftam, certainly indicated an
intention to support the king agamlt the nation
al afTembly, if any flruggle could have been
maintained between them. M. Kellerciann
has the command ofM. Luckner"s army.
The three commissioners lately impri
soned at Sedan, are now relcafed.
The king and queen continue in thea
partments of the temple., and from some
myfterions conduit of themselves and ser
vants, have, for these few days, engaged a
conliderable lhare of the public attention-
Ttleir security is accordingly to be further
provided for by the erection of a wall on
the Outlide ofthe fojfc now digging round
their garden, and only those persons are to
attend theiH, who are appointed by the mu
nicipality for that purpose.
The king appears to be by no means af
fected by this or any other circumllance ;
anitlfes himfelf tranquilly by walking iu the
long allies of die garden, and observes the
workmen, who are fiilging patriotic songs,
whether he is there or not. Sometimes he
isfeen in one of the balconies fronting the
garden, with a book in one hand and a
Small glass in the other, hit hair not drefled,
but rolled up on the fides and tied close.
No perfun, except the domeltics, can
to him, btit in the prefetiee of a municipal
officer.
The queen is considerably altered in fi
gure, and declined in beauty of counte
nance. The king is diftinguilhed as before
for excellence of appetite.
When the royal family enter the garden,
every other person leaves it, except one
municipal officer. On Friday fe'ennigljt
the queen was offended that this officer
walked evenly with her party, tho' at a
conliderable distance. " I have not agreed
upon this (said Ihe) with M. Manuel."
The officer apologized*— 11 1 could not walk
behind, madam, for that is the place of a
lackey ; before you 1 would not walk—
there seemed to be no other line for me."
The queen then went to the prince royal,
who was playing with a ball ; inadame Eli
zabeth, after some hasty expreflions, joined
madame Laniballe; the king with much
indifference, continued his walk.
Aug. S4. —All violences here have ceafeti,
and the operations of the conftittited autho
rities are daily encreahng in vigor, diltincl:-
ness and popularity. Except a petition,
offered to the national aflembly from the
community ot Paris for dire&ing all the de
partments of the kingdom to take new de
nominations, and, in some measure new du
ties, there seems to be no question, upon
which the populace thi'ik they have any
thing to require from the legislature. The
aflembly passed to the order of the day upon
this petition, and seem to have excited no
discontent by the measure.
Now that the people have confidence in
the executive power, there are no longer
appeals to the aflembly by armed or rumul-f
ttious bodies, and the meetings in the Pa
lais Royal begin to decline. The populace,
except the federes, are returning to their
employments, and the latter will soon be
disposed of in the camps of Soiftbns and
Paris.
All the superior persons of the king's
household have been examined before com
missioners from the community. Nothing
new transpired from the examinations of
madame Lambelle and the other ladies.—
Hue, the king's second valet de chambre,
related, that his majesty held a council at
five o'clock, on the morning of the toth, at
whieh all the ministers and several ofthe
municipal officers aflifted. From thence he
went to review the troops in the garden,
who all shouted vivc le rot, except the can
noneers. The latter shouted live la nation.
The aunts of Louis XVI. now at Rome,
are diicovcred to have had a perilion from
I him ever lince their departure. The Pope's
affettion for the royal persons will, doubt
lei's, prevent their fuftering any inconve- ,
ilience by the cessation of it.
Spire, Aug- n. The Auftrians began to
bombard Landau on the Bth inft. about 4
o'clock in the morning.
The Marquis Bouille has joiued the Im
perial army.
Manheim, Aug. 4. Last night, about 8
o'clock, a detachment of Anftrian horse at
tacked the French cavalry near ESington,
and drove them back with great loss, un
der the cannon of Landau.
The skirmishes between the two armies
are frequent, and from the superior disci
pline of the Imperial and Pruflian troops
victory generally crowns their arms.
Prussian head-quarters, at Contz, in the en"
virons of Treves, Aug. 6.
Yesterday, the sth in ft. the ariny entered the
camp. The van-guard, under the command
of Prince Hohcnlohe, lies encamped between
Graverwnach and Tavern.
The king's quarters are in the monastery of
the Carthusians, and those of the duke of Brunl
wick at Contz. Hostilities are immediately to
be commenced, but at prelent both patties are
nearly ina&ive.
The French patriots at Landau have fem an
address to the Jacobine clubs in France, in
which they declare their refoluiion to perish in
the ruins of ihe fortrefs rather than to farren
der.
The garrison confifls now of 10,000 men.
Stockholm, August 3. It has been notified
by a circular letter to all the provinces of
Sweden that petitioners to the king shall
not, in future, kneel down, as fubjetlion of
this kind belongs only to the supreme Be
ing, and when observed towards men, is
quite unworthy the dignity of a free nati
on, and of human nature.
Several of the prints lately aristocratic
have begun to appear under new titles, and
the populace offer them no interruption.
The Gazette Univerfelle is become the Ga
zette Nationalde France, and has the words
! " liberie, rgalite, in the title.
j At the temple, the works for the fecu
Tity and for the accommodation of the
royal family proceed with equal vigour.
No persons even of (fee household are now
admitted without tickets from the commu
nity, and each service has a colour, by
: which its tickets are diftinguilhed. All
the kiig's servants are in future to be ap
pointed by the community.
The gates of St. Dennis and St. Mar
tin are to be pulled down, for their offen
cen in bearing the emblems of royalty,
j There hasjuil arrived from Chantilly, a
; cargoe of ftatuea, beginning with that of
I the constable Montmorency, which are to
•be melted into-cannon. . ,
I Four French lines are how inscribed
j ovet the door of the maifon de la commane,
fignifying as follows:
" Obey the people } refpeft their de
crees : there were citizens before there
were mailers. The people after being,
lor a long time abused by kings, grew
weary of the lceptre, and broke it on the
loth of August, in the fouith year of
liberty, and the firft of equality."
M. Montmorin, the late minister, will
probably escape, another person of that
name having been found to own the papers
imputed to him. The latter M. Mont
morin, formerly governor of Fontainbleau,
is now in the Abbaye.
The death ofM. D'Avenhoult, a mem
ber of the national assembly, has been no
tified by M. Thtiriot. It appears that he
was upon the point of leaving the kingdom,
when some peasants met him and asked to
fee his passport. He had none, and, in
an endeavor to force his way, his servant
was (hot. M. D'Avenhoult, being then
within a mile and an half of the Austrian
frontiers ran towards it j some other pea
fant«met him, and, jufl as they began to
question him, lie fired a piltol through bis
head.
Of this wound lie did not die, till about
an hour afterwards, in which time he had
been removed to a neighbouring village.
Great numbers of deserters continue to
arrive at Valenciennes,
M. Lebrun, the minister for foreign
affairs, presented to the national assembly
a view of the present situation of France,
with refpedt to foreign powers It stated
that Sweden had already declared its in
tention of not entering into the league of
powers against France, and manifeftsd a
desire of forming a commercial connexion
with that country. Several Swedifli offi
cers likewise, had requested permission to
serve in the armies of France, and to fight
in defence of liberty,
Russia had never disguised her hoftjle
intentions, but for some time she could do
nothing but threaten.
The southern powers were in tie fame
situation.
The German empire had teflified its re
pugnance to take up arm» againfl France,
excepting some princes, who might be
coil tillered in a date of hostility.
Holland and England always promised
a perse.a neutrality. The Dutch ambas
sador (till remained in Paris, that of Eng
land was recalled ; but the note which
communicated this order to him, did not
exhibit any hostile intentions. The Eng
lish miniilry only observed to him, " that
the executive power having been taken
from the hands of the king, his creden
tials were no longer valid, and that, conse
quently, he ought to leave the country."
In short, hii Britannic majesty continues
to entertain the fame sentiments of perfect
neutrality, but he is of opinion that he
does not infringe this neutrality, by claim
ing every fafety for Louis XVI. and his
family. He teftifies, that he expects to
fee these personages sheltered from every
violence, the commifilon of which he adds,
would not fail to excite universal in.
dignation.
The republic of Venice, by a resolution
of tlie 24th of July, have forbid French
vessels from entering the Gulph of Venice
during their present troubles. The above
resolution was notified to the French am
bassador, adding, that it was taken in order Y
to observe the llricteft neutrality.
■■ 1 iu.HL. 11 —
PHILADELPHIA.
October 24.
The public are informed, in the Nev»
York Journal of the 20th inft. that the
name of Governor Clinton was annexed by
mistake to the circular letter of the offi
cers of the line of the late army, residing
in the state of New-York [See National
Gazette, of o£l. 10] " As Gov. Clinton
has publicly renounced all claims on the
United States for liis military services,
there would have been a riianifcft impro
priety in his signing that letter. At the
meeting mentioned, in it, the Governor
was not present, but his name was added
to the committee from a well founded con
fidence in li? 8 disposition to co-vperate in
any meafurcs, consistent with his ftalion,
to procure jultice to the officers and sol
diers of an army with whom he so long
and so honorably served."
A letter from a refpe<S?.Me house at
Nantz, dated Aug. 18, his tire following
paragraph :
" The late disturbances in Paris will
likely be much exaggerated on your fide
of the water, as all the incidents of the re
volution have been here. Thank God,
we continue to enjoy perfect tranquility,
and, united as we are, we hope to main
tain it.
" Those of your merchants who have
not been credulous on the idle (lories made
them of the situation of this kingdom,
and who have sent us their vessels, have
made much money, fay 30 to 50 per cent,
and more."
The (hip Kitty, that arrived here or
Sunday last from Liverpool, brings news
to the 30th of August. The intelligence
brought by this vessel may be summed up
as follows : The Englifn were fitting out
a fleet, and on the ere of prcffing, with a
view, it was supposed, to the motions o£
Rulfia. M. de la Fayette had been re
taken at Liege, and re-conducled to Paris
under a strong escort. He had not reach
ed the city at the date of the last accounts.
The British cabinet in a note to the French
executive council and national assembly,
mentioning the recall of their minister,
express a determination to prelerve a ftrift
neutrality as to the internal government of
1* ranee, ihe depolition of the king is
thereafon they give so: i!;e recall of their
minister —1 he duke ot Brunfwick had
entered Fiance, but not made much pro
gress.
A general eleflion in the county ef Ot
ftgo, state of New-York, has lately been
held, at ten different place? in said coun
ty, when a committee was elected, to join
deputies from other counties, to solicit re»
dress of the representatives of the
for the outrage committed by the majority of
canvajfers, in the late ckd/iar. for gover
nor, See.
Yeflerday the legislature of New-Jersey
assembled at Trenton, agreeably to law.
Extraß of a Utter from a citizen of Cincin
nati, Sept. 9 1792.
" The day before yellerday general Wil
kinfon returned to this plfice, from avifit
to the out pofl, and an exteniiveexcurfian
to general St. Clair's fieli of daughter, and
around the head waters \f the Big Mia-mi—l am in%med that he has di (covered
two pieces of the brass ordnance 101 l on the
fourth of November ; that he explored
the country in front of the field of
battle, within eight miles of the old
Miami village, which turns out to be sixty
miles from the field : He has also explored
the country to the east of general St.
Clair's trace; from whence it appeared
that the governor bore much too far to
the westward. We are told ihe general
patTed through fevcral extensive encamp
ments occupied by the savages about the
month of May on the head waters of the
Miami, but that he was not able to disco
ver any part of these ; indeed it
it is probable, that was not his object, as
he does, lam informed, ft ill 'consider hlm
felf restrained from offenfive operations.
It is a melancholy consideration, that
the plan for civilizing being given over,
the extirpation of the Indian tribes seems
now the great object in view on the part
of the enlightened citizens of these Hates.
But what is their great crime Love of
countsy, an attachment to their origina
manners, and a determined spirit to defend
the foil upon which they were planted by
the hand of nature.—lt is hoped the time
y,is not far distant when the idea of deftroy--
ing them for their property will be held dif
gi aceful, when the peaceful calm spirit of
philosophy (hall pervade their territory,
instead of the feverith delirium of fanati
ciftn snd myfterjr. It is by convincing
the reason oily, that these rude Iketches of
nature's workmanlhip can be transformed
into man ; but as long es it is cciifidered a
more eligible matter to kill them, and
heir their lands, than reform them, no
doubt the present spirit of animosity will
be kept up :
On minds that thus untaught, thus darkling
stray
To pour the radiant beams of cheerful
day;
To point where nature the great outline
draws,
Where truth severe gives fanition to her
laws ;
To explain their being's date, its aim, and
end.
And to immortal life their hopes to extend,
More blefl the talk !
7o the Editor of the National Gazette!
S I R,
TO cirag a private charafler into public
view to expose it 10 injury or con
tempt, to draw it from the peaceful, unambi
tious, and tranquil (hades of private life, into
the glare of day to hold it up to scorn, is
high treason againfl humanity, and charac
terizes a savage and an unmanly soul —Eve-
ry effort to acquire fame or fortune by ho
norable means is laudable, as every endea
vour to build a reputation upon the ruin of
another's, marks a little and ignoble mind.
When a man is obliged to become his own
panegyrist, or in common language, is obli
ged to be the trumpeter of His own fame, it
may be fairly inferred that his worth is
known only to himfetj\ and is of little value ;
for it rarely happens that the light of a m3n
of genuine merit is hid under a bufhel—T rue
merit, tho' accompanied by tiuemcdejiy, is
seldom loft for want of gathering ; Ameri
ca is not the foil where the valuable piant of
science " wastes its sweetness in the defart
air" —It requires not a botanical eye to diflinguifh
its gender, its refdence, or its class. I have been
Jed to the above reflexions by ■ i " extract
of a letter from a gentleman - in this city to
his friend in New-York?" pubi idled there
ard republilhed in your paper. The inten
tion of this letter mult be obvious to the
least observing eye, and as the writer of it
has thrown the gauntlet, it is in the option
of any one who feels the desire to take it
-up ; I feel a pride in volnnteering it 011 filch
an occasion, and entering the lifts in defence
«f injured and insulted merit— I am Dot ignorant
that in so doing 1 expose myfelf to much
danger by combating with an author ; but
tbejufticeof my causa will animate and
sustain me, and I will boldly meet this Go
kah. tho' it be only with a fling. Although
I am not a botanist, & cannot diflinguifh the
sexes of plants, (a very important branch of
medical knowledge indeed !) it is not diffi
cult to diftinguifli the flerling bullion of the
Profeffor of the Materia Medica from the
tinfel'd dross of the hero of the letter. 'Tis
true that the Profeffor of the Materia Me-
does not imagine himfeif theyLa of all
medical, as well as every other science, and
that all is ignorance which does not imme
diately emanate from him ; but this must
be ascribed to his modesty, and might, per
haps, be cured by an attendance on a fevi of the
iotamft's leßures, and a proper attention to his ge
neral converfatien. 'Tis alio true that he has
not the names of most authors of note by
rote, and that he has not derived an inti
mate knowledge of them from Reviews,
&c. but this defeit may be remedied by a
few lessons from the botanist, whole prin
cipal merit confilts, not in originality, but
in retail and amplification. 'Tis equally true,
his humility is fucb that he allows there are
gentlemen of science 2nd sense here as wall
as in Europe, and that not all of his brethren
of the pulse are errant blockheads ; but this
excels of diffidence might be »vercome by
a Utile of the overflowing from the phial of
the botanist's confidence. Reputation is a
delicate tiling in the hands of the Profeflor
of the Materia Medica ; he blights not a
fair fame by the poifonotis breath of detrac
tion, but like a good christian and a man of
feeling he covers the weaknefles, nay, even
the vices of his brethren with the mantle of
chanty. His honest and upright foul, like
the sensitive plant, (hrinks from the pressure
of calumny, difhemor, or inhumanity; he
neither boafls of his own merits, nor does he
seek to enhance them by detiaQing from his
neighbour's—Well informed in his profef
lion, and entirely competent to the chair
which he was appointed to fill, he proclaims
not in the high ways Or in the bye ways his
ozvnjkiii. or the ma mtude of his own informa
tion ; his tongue is never employed but 011
some ufeful subject, and is not like
" Delia's o'er her cup
" That runs whole ages without wind
ing up."
Tho' unable to class the Hefliau fly, or re
pea: the names of several thousand plants. Or
expatiate with wonderful learning 011 their
generation, he has attended to the utile of
medical science, and his lectures on the
Materia Medica will convey more real bene
fit, will contain more J,olid information, poflefs
more pcrfpicmty and method, and will be deli
vered Widi more regularity than the profeffor
ol botany, with all his labour, is fnfceptible
of- W ill the nomenclature of plants, their
sexual dilliiiftions. or the clarification of
Heilian or any other kind of fliesj aifift in
curing a fever, or mitigating a fit of the
stone I Will botany teach the medical vir
tues of plants, and inform us that jalap is
purgative, and that the poppy is an opiate ?
Will it inform us that bark will cure an in
termittent, and that mercury is a fpecific
for syphilis ? I trust there is too much good
feufe among the younger part of the medi
cal faculty to be deluded by found. The [
stream of information which will flow from j
the Profeffor of the Materia Medica will
amply fatisfy every rational thirst, will fully
compensate students for every trouble and
expence, and will furnilh an ufeful source
of information to them, when he and his
detractor are numbering in the dust.
Oft. 22. MEDICUS.
y —> For the National Gazette.
ODDS boddikins 1 Mr. Printer, why
all this pother concerning the medi-,
cal lectures of late ? why not save the ftj
dents of medicine the trouble of travelling
three or four hundred miles, especially
when it can be done at once, by a fmgle
stroke of the pen ?
In turning over the old newspapers of
thisftate, I have frequently seen receipts to
make epic poems, receipts to write antifoe
detal elTays, but I do not recollect ever to
have read a receipt to compose a course
of medical lectures.
As no gentleman has tifrned his attenti
on to this subject, and as I look upon my
felf to be a kind of a medical epicure, I
have with the afliftance of a friend tossed :
up the following, which from the excel
lency of the method, will not fail to pro- |
cure me the warm approbation of every
friend to science.
Recipe.
ift. If from an ignorance of the Englifli
grammar, a certain muddinefs of the un
derdanding, or a literal weight of brain,
you are not able to eompofe an introduc
tory lecture, a few pages on the impor
tance of health, tranferibed verbatim from
Sir William Temple's eflay on health and ,
long life, will answer the most sanguine !
expectations of your numerous auditors.
2d. As the theory of fevers will employ I
a large portion of your time, and as it I
would be unfafhionable to detail the whims j
ef Dr. Boerhaave, and for the fake of va
riety, it would be improper to copy from
the printed edition of Dr. Cullen, you
may retail the twelve manuscript lectures j
of this celebrated profeffor.
As the book is scarce, and as two thirds
of your hearers will not bo greatly diltfn
guifned for a retentive faculty, you will
run little clanger of being detected.
3d. As there are some favorite topics '111
medicine, which engage the attention of
the student, as the effects of opium, and as,
they will be generally, pretty well acquaint
ed with the opinions of Dr. Cullen, you i
can translate Dr. inaugural d flirta
tion, which with two or three experiments,
and a few words on the irritability of the !
heart, will have the effect you deilre, —;
If there are any refraflory spirits amocr '
your colleagues, who teach a different doc
trine, or have the presumption to tliiuk j
for themselves, appeal to your experience, ,
which never fails to confound your auta-;
gonifl, who is content to aflail you with ;
the flimfy arguments of reason and know- j
ledge. An appeal to experience, is a knock!
me down argument; in its eflefts it is like a
twe ve pound Ihot receiv'd between wind j
and water.
4th. As to the cold bath, you can tranf-'
late a thesis publilhed at Edinburgh in the!
year 1 -67, " de lavatione figida" to which is
annex'd an epiflle from JLinnocus, which
the ignorant compilers of the Thefaurns
Medicus, impertinent coxcombs, as if infenlible
to its merits, refufed togive a place in their
celebrated work.
sth. The doctrine of cancers is too dry
a fubjett to interest your hearers, but as
your course would not be complete with
out a few words concerning them, and as
the be!l difl'ertation, twi this fubjeft, has ap
peared in the German language, you can
translate it verbum verbo, which with an
extract or two from Guy and Juftamond,
will g,ve your lecture an air of originality.
6th. As to the great body of the course,
be sure tolet it be afecond edition of Dr. Cullen-,
as this eminent phylician has commanded
the admiration of his contemporaries, you
can give nothing better. Leave all innova
tion in science to your dull colleagues,
laugh at the fcientific production of the mo
derns, as the whims of an overheated ima
gination; do this, and altho'you fha.ll not
acquire the petty character of a man of
genius, you will be denominated " a J'clid
jellew," which is as much superior to the
former, as legal tender is to depreciated pa
per. Never publish your opinions to the
work), better is it to be infeited with the
plagUe. than with a cacoelhet fcribenoi, it has
beefc the.Ktiiaof many a weil diCpofcd
lor it is the touch stone of abilities.
Never alter your opinion, ifeverfd ful
ly convinced you are in the -vC-rong; it is al
ways the sign ofa weaknlind; be inflexible,
for an old error is better than a new truth.
In company be not communicative: re
member the wordsof Solomon, that a pru
dent man concealeth his knowledge, and a
close mouth is the sign of a wife tongue ;
take the advicc of this wife man, and the
expression of Angus Sutherland, when he
favv ?t huge owl painted upon a lign, will be
applied to you, "what it 10/es, said he, in/peak
ing it makes up in thinking."
Above all things, be grave : never mind
the opinion of Shaftfbury, who fays, gra
vity is the very efl'ence of iinpoflure, or
HochefoucauH, who declares, gravity is a
[ mysterious carri age of the body, invented
|;o cover the defects of the mind ; those
j men knew nothing of mankind and your bu
siness is with the great body of the people.
Havingcollecfed these materials together,
make them into a halh, and serve it up a»
occasion may require ; instead of the insi
pid taste of a dilh of the fame ingredients,
it will have the exquisite relish of an Olla
Podrida, which will not only please the pa
lates of the guests, but refleit infinite ho
nor on the abilities of the cook.
J PETER PLAGIARY.
October 20, 1792.
V. ■ ■ —
Fr the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Mr. FreneAu,
THE publications against Mr. Jefferfon
since the author has been dete&ed in
his base fallhoods and foul designs, are more
like the ravings of guilt in despair, than
like the reasonings of a man in his sober sen
ses. The pretence of proof is now given
iup ; and rancour, and an aukward filly
buffoonery* has been substituted : or, if any
attempt towards circumstantial deduflion
be made, it is remarkable, thatit fall; back
with redoubled weight on the accuferhim
felf. Thus, for example, because Mr. Jef
ferfon thinks public debts no public blef
fmgs, and speaks his mind freely against
measures framed 011 that and other perni
cious and unwarrantable grounds, it has
been falfely inferred that he is an enemy to
! the government; and because the National
Gazette, being a free paper, has printed stric
tures on such measures, it is further affirm
ed, with equal malignity, that he instituted
the Gazette, and that for the destroying of
! the government. But, Mr. Freneau, if it
I is criminal in Mr. Jelferfon to disapprove
; public measures—not with a view td illegal
j oppolitioii, but to amendment where prac
■ ticable, and to prevent further mifchief
where the evil is rivetted on the public,
! what is to be said cf his calumniator whose
principles are notoriaufly and undeniably monar
chical, and whose convefations (as unreserved
as those of Mr. JefFerfon) against republi
can government, are a constant libel on the
constitution hypocritically held up to the
I public as an obieft of attachment. Further,
fir, if Mr. JefFerfon i,; to be considered as
. having bribed the editor of the National
[Gazette, because fame of the publications
in that paper are confident with his "opini
ons j or, taking the matter the other way,
because the editor receives 250 dollars a
: year as a fixed faiary for certain business in
j his department, therefore Mr. JefFerfon is
| the patron of your paper and all its publi
| cations, then let the following facts (peak
"j for themselves :
1 "The remarks that appeared on Mr. Jif
x ferjon's Chair [fee a -writer ftgned Scourge,
jin the Gazette of the United States of
, Sep!ember 22] may have more meaning as
'■ ""ell as further malice than Jlrikei the Jirjl
•view. It is said that it is the Prefi icnt that
u/ls such a chair : if so, the calumniator furc
!y knoius it; and,from ivhat the public <wns
. reminded offome time ago, this indired fir ok e
of ridicule at that venerableperfonage may be
I accountedfor. The mcfl pra&ifed hypocrites
j -will fomc'imes let the majh fall, or flip aside
so as to betray themselves in their true pi vfl
j ognotny.
firji, That the Gazett-e of the United
States was set up, ds has ever been taken for
certain, under an anti-republican patron
age.
Secondly, That from the (Inftrine of titles,
and the blejjings of a public debt, down through
the laboured arguments lor hereditary go
vernment, and unconstitutional powers,&c.
unto the reprobated obftruftion of newlpa
pers, the laid Gazette has uniformly and
indefatigaMy laboured to spread the prin
ciples and views of the anti-republican
junto.
Thirdly, That the said junto, and the ca
lumniator in particular, is known to pa
tronize the editor and his paper, to make
it the vehicle of his anonymous effuftons, as
well as official publications, and to encou
rage this monarchical press by aids (having
the full effect of being dealt out from time
to time so as to keep uj> a conjlant sense of de
pendence on favour) with which the paltry sa
lary of 250 dollars is unworthy to be com
pared.
Must not the calumniator admit, accor
ding to his own logic, that the charge falftly
brought against Mr. jefferfon, as being an
enemy to the constitution, lies in truth againit
himfelf as a friend to monarchy ; and, fur
ther, that the monarchical press he patron}-'
zes is the corrupt instrument made u(Yof
by the enemies of republican government,
to sap the canftitution of their country ?
CAMILLUS.
Philfid. 08. 4 s!, 1792.
For the National Gazette
d/it. Freneau,
HOWEVER the public may detest the
motive of the slanderous attack on a
high and illustrious charafterj they must re
joice at the consequence that has issued out
ol it. It is thus that by the wife and bene
volent dispensations of Providence, the ma
lice of a wicked heart is fruftrated and re
torted by the weaknel" and folly it produc
es in the head. The private letters of
Mr. Jeiferfon extorted into public view by
a raging envy of his splendid abilities, and
a depraved and restless rancour againiV
his republican and virtuous principles,
whilst they explain a public character in its
true light, conllit'.ite a repofitarv of wif»
dom and true patriotism. that will be high
ly prized by every independent citizen In
these letters, written as appears at a time
and under circumstances when they cotiid
speak 110 language but the genuine uubiaifed
language of the foul, we fee a mind highly
illumin ed by the science of government,
a heart warmly devoted to the liberty of
mankind; and a dutiful love to his coun
try, withal, that must kindle an afleflion
ate sympathy in every disinterested breast.
In these letters is equally evinecd
and substantial attachment to tile Conftitu
toin he has been basely charged with de
siring to overturn ; keeping ahvays vigi
lantly in fight, nevertheless, a further pro
viiioiifor the eflential rights of his fellow
citizens, those rights which the voice jt his
country was at the very time (tiro' at firft
unknown to him) loudly caliing for, and
which its a£l has since carefully feeured by
tlie amendatory fupplenient to the Con
stitution.—Ye monarchal and artflocratical
pretenders to a love for our republican Con
stitution, hide yonr diminilhtd heads 1 ye
convicted slanderers of superior merit co
ver yout blufliing faces. JUSTICE-
The sixteenth Ode of the second book of
Horace's Odes, imitated.
Otiurfi divos rogat in pcicnti, &c.
To Pompor.iui Atticus.
THE fa lor, tofs'd on stormy seas,
Implores his patron god for ease
W hen Luna hides her paler blaze,
And liars obscurely dart their rays.
For ease the Yankee, fierce in war,
Hisftores of vengeance points afar ,•
For ease the toiling Dutchman sighs,
Which gold, nor gems, nor purple buys ;
No treafur'd heaps from India trade,
No doctor's, or the lawyer's aid
Can eai'e the tumults of the mind,
Or cares to gilded roofs affign'd.
The lot of man he best completes
Whose board is crown'd with frugal treats,
Whose sleep no fears nor thirst of gain
Beneath his homely roof refirain. °
Why then with wafting cares
Weak reptiles of so frail an age, "
Why thus to distant climates run
And lands beneath another fun ?
For tho' to China's dimes we roam
Ourselves we ne'er can leave at home ;
Care, fwift as deer, as tempests strong
Ascends the prow, and faiL along. °
The mind that feels an even state
And all the fan.re leaves to fate,
111 every ill £ha!l pleasure (hare,
As every pleasure has its care.
Death early feal'd Montgomery's doom,
111 youth brave Laurens found a tomb,
While Arnold fpenda in peace and pride
The years that heaven to them denied.
A host of votes are at your call,
A feat—perhaps—in Coiigrefs-hall ;
And v„ ftments dipt in Stygian dye
Where'er you go attrafl the eye.
On me, a poor and small domain,
YV ith fometfting of the rhyming vein
The mlife beftow'd ; and fhareof pride,
Tofj, urn a-ftoutidrelfrcni my fide'From the Bofion Independent Cukonicle.
The CRISIS,—No. 111.
Cttrforv Remarks on the Speculations, antecedent and
Juhfcquent to the Funding System—monopoly of
the National Bank, —with a protojal to raije a
ii:-venue frsm thi fame.
To the Independent Federal ELECTORS.
IT was observed in the lad Crisis, that a
funding system, rather than a comrne/cial sys
tem, had been the p incipal object attended to by
Congress.
It is granreJ that the public credit of the Unit
ed States, should be honourably lupported j but
whether the measures pursued to accompiiih this
bulinefs, have had this salutary tendency cannot
be so readily admitted. Our national reputation
ought to be reared on th; firm bafts of public jus
sice j unless it is thus founded, i: -will soon be-
like the baseless fabric of a vision. It is
not fufficient for this purpose, that a few decla
matory paragraphs should appear in our public
papers, declaratory of our national honor and dig
nity j but the reputation and welfare of our coun r
try depend altogether, on adopting such measures
as will diffufe among the citizens at large, the
JBoit equal and permanent Wettings.
This principle was never more m cefiary to be
attended to, than in our attempts to maintain our
national credit. The fituaiio.i at" this country,
with reflect to our public debt, was peculiarly
circumstanced. The original creditors having for
the most part disposed of their no'.es, a large pro
portion ot them fell into the hands of a particu
lar clals of men, reliding in different parts of the
United Stares emphatically called Speculators.
By th° mode of negotiating their bufjnefs, they
secured to themselves, at a rate vastly below their
real value, the evidences of the public debt. I
confecjuence of which, the various emiiiions of
npte9* became a species of such exter.five Specu
lation, that many persons laid 4sde every other
employment to pursue it. From the number en
gaged in this occupation, and the methods prac
ticed among them, the public flocks were ren
dered so precarious, that no citizen, who was en
gaged in any other business, could ascertain their
real value. Thus circumstanced, the notes were
under the immediate management of this del
cription of men—and the body of the people lay j
wholly at their mercy. Agents were employed to
explore every crevice of the country—and every!
art and fiaefls were used to dispossess, ac the low
cft price, the unfulpicious citiz.-n of his proper
ty :
This was the real state of our pecuniary afr'aiis
before the adoption of the funding system j a fa£
with which Congress was well acquainted j and
therefore ought to have ftudioufty guarded against
further evils, by adopting a system framed upon
the moi\ simple principles : Instead of which, the
system as adopted, beinj so intricate and perplex
ing has given the utmost latitude for the conti
nuance of the greateit im partitions.
Az the time the funding system was debating
in Congrtfs, the whole body of Speculators were
collected at the focus of intelligence! -Having nc
other er/iplaytntr,;, they were constantly hovering
round the key-bole of the Cabinet. Being pof
fe/led with the minutia of information, they
were enabled to pursue the business through all its
windings j and always on the floor of Con
grefs, became acquainted with the sentiments of"
every member.—Thus circumstanced, they cou-1 J
compute almoftto a certainty, the decision of any
important question, relative to the fubjett.
At this interesting period, they were fendin»
their cmiflaries to instill doubts and perplexities
into the minds of the people. The indubious
part of the community* not knowing the real
state of the business, were easily per funded to part
with their notes. The public roads were throng
ed with exprefies—AflumptUn and non-ademp
tion were alternately diftia&ing every man's brain,
who was not within the vortex of secrecy. The
system when publlfhfd was so perplexing, that
neither the merchant, tradesman or manufacturer
could fathom it, unless they gave up every other
employment to unravel its intricacies. The
plough and ax must have been laid aside, to study
the science of ftock-jobbiog. The principles of
the system being so vastly the widow
and soldier were obliged to puc them'ftJves into the
power of a negotiator, to tranfacl their mod iim
ple concerns. In fliort, the intricacy of the fund
ing system, on one hand, and the mode pursued
by this class of people on the other, has thrown
the greatest part of the public debr, comparative
ly, into the hands of a few persons*
Tne foregoing narration must be allowed by
evei7 candid man to be a real (late of fads, as it
refpetfs the conduct of a certain class of men
(with few exceptions) antecedent and subsequent
to the adoption of the funding system. The spi
rit of speculation began however to subside in a
small degree, by the notes being contracted toitb
in a small circle ; bat it was again revived, in the
eflablifhment of the National Bank. Though
this institution may be cqnfidered as beneficial in
theory, yet its operations were attended with mod
pernicious, and in some instances, ruinous confe
qnences. Immediately on its eflablifhment, sun
dry persons who had amafTed immense fortunes by
tFieir former speculations, repaired to Philadelphia,
and in a clandestine manner, £( assumed" to
themselves the whole nurriber of shares, notwith
standing the provision of Congress to prevent a
monopoly. By this ungenerous and illtgai mea
sure, hundreds (who had deposited their money
in the MjfTachufetts state bank, agreeably to th'
request of Mr. Hamilton) were wholly excluded,
and became exnofed to the most horrid impositi
ons, provided they were desirous to become stock
holders. Thousands and tens of thoufinds of
Hollars-were, by this monopoly, acquired by a few
individuals within the short space of one month.
If t'n's immense property had been obtained up
on the fair* principles of negociation, no objeftin
could be made to it ; but it cannot b;t excjte th
greatest indignation, when ic is considered tha'
this acqu'fition is the result of a most avaricious
monopoly, and a notorious violation l of the aci of
Congress. A breach of law of infinitely left mag
nitude', would fubjeft a merchant to the lofa 01
his vefiel and cargo.
The Bank as it now stands, may operate rather
as a political machine, than as a system of public
anu general util u. The directors of the national
bank being principally members ot Congress, it
may become subservient to the purposes of gov
ernment. The dire&ors of the leveral branches,
being also so largely inteiefted, it is prelumed
they will be ever ready to a ill (t in luch plans as
will extend their undue influence. In time there
fore, every man in business may become so com
pleady under the controul of this Herculean mo
nied ftrengfh, as to be obliged to submit to what
ever terms may bi imposed on him.
From the foregoingobfervations, it appears that
the bank, however calculated in the firft instance
for the benefit of the public, has by a monopoly,
become almost intirely the property of men (with
few exceptions) devoted to the business of specula
tion- This being the cafe, it must be considered
unjust and nnrealonable, that they should by
mere ait and finefTe, enjoy the immense advanta
ges arising from the institution. No pexfon can
point out, why they are incitied to such exclusive
privileges, from any benefits government has ever
experienced from them, either during the war, or
since the peace.
The dodlrine of discrimination was advanced in
Congress, while the funding system was debating ;
but on this fubjett, the speculating interfjl was so
interwoven with the original creditors, it was dif
ficult, and even ofliole ro lej arate it. But in
the institution of the bank, this /peculating in&cr
eft may be considered as brought to a focus. The
ftcckholders being detached from every other class
of citizens, or creditors, it iff an easy matter for
government to avail themselves of f >me particu
lar benefits. It is but reasonable* that those who
have taken to themselves such exdujive advantages,
ihouid be fubjeft to some exclusive taxes. it is
therefore propokd, that the dutus of impoji and ex
cise (which bears so hard on the body of the peo
pie) should be lefj'tned, and a tax of y at leaf, three
and a half per cent, be laid on all negotiations at
the dank—to be appropriated for the dikharge of
the public debt, and to carrv on the Indian war.
Should this meafuie be adopted by Congress,
the flockholdcrs would have no reason to com
plair, as they would then receive an interest of 6
or 7 per cent, on their capital. And as a fur
ther inducement to the measure, when these peo
ple feel the operation of duties to carry on the In
dian war, it is probable it would soon subside.
It may be thought by some, that such a tax
would be unreasonable ; but if we consider the fub
jefton fair and equitable principles, I would ask,
whether it is not more jujl, that the stockholders
illould pay three and an half fer cent, out of the
profits of their oifcounts, when in the firft in
stance, the property was unlawfully obtained, and
which cost them through a long ferics of 'pecula
tion, about 7/6 in the pound—than that a mer
chant should pay from five to fifteen per cent, du
ty en articles which coil him the. full amount of
tiuenty Jbillings ? Can it be thought more reason
able to tax a merchant extravagantly, who is em,v
ployed in a buiinefs beneficial, not only to him
lelf, but to the whole community, than a person
whfffe property is confined to vaults and cclls, and
only permitted to be issued therefrom, for his
own particular emolument, to enable him to live
in affluence on some neighbouring eminence, upon
the labors of the induftiious ? Is it more reason
able that a merchant should be exceJiively taxed
in his merchandize, on which he can obtain but a
trifling profit, than a person whose property has
arisen since his fiift purchase, 3or 400 per cent ?
but the unreasonableness of the measure must va
nish, when we consider that the revenue of import
and excise, is deposited i 1 the branch bank, and the
stockholders are enabled to loan to the amount of
this sum, and thereby receive an intcreft of at leal!
9 per cent, on the identical money paid by the
merchant. By this mode, the stockholders are re
ceiving an unwarrantable interest, not only on
their oivn funds> but even the taxes of th: merchant
become a capital for their private emolument.
With their deposits, they may attempt to co:in
teratt everv other bank within the several states,
in order to monopolize their negotiations, as they
have already their shares. The various mrthods
used to defeat the late institution of the Union
Ban k, is a proof of this observation j though
founded upon the most liberal principles, and sup
ported by a numerous class of citizens of every oc
cupation, yet it had to encounter throughout its
various llages, a most formidable opposition : But
by exertion and perfeverar.ee, ic is now in opera
tion, and from the largeness of its capital, am
the hearty support it receives from " the people",
it now stands on a Itafis too permanent to be ever
shaken.
If a tax of three and a half per cent, is in future
laid on all negotiations at the branch banks, for
the purposes mentioned, the people will fay that
Congress, in this instance, (l iuork it right."
A REPUBLICAN.
New-Jersey Confiscated Lands.
WHEREAS the firft purchaser did not
comply with the conditions of sale ;
this is to give notice the following tradt of
land, containing fifty acres and thirty nine hun
dredths, ftricl measure situated in Hardifton town
ship, near the road that leads from Elijah Col
lards, deceased, to Paulinfkill, lace the property
of Oliver De Lancey, will be fold at public vendue.
The sale to begin on Wednesday the 28th day
of November next, at 2 o'clock in the afternoon
at Sufl'ex courthoul'e j and besides caih, the fol
lowing state obligations will be received in pay
jiient, to wit, —Officers and foldie'rs notes given
for the depreciation of their pay— notes given to
the militia of this Itate for the arrearages of their
pay—certificates liquidated by Silas Condi£t—and
notes given by the Treasurer of this state to per
sons who had demands against the confifcateci
estates of New-Jersey.
JOSEPH GASTON,
Agent for SulTex county.
Oft. 24, 1792* 4w.iaw.
*,* Three handsome Editions of the Laws
of the United ? tales for sale at this ojjice
(No. 209 MarhetJlreet) in folio and otfa
vi, either full or half bound— N.B. The
Lotus of the lafl SeJJion, in octavo only, may
b: hadfeparate, price three eighths of a dollar f
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. Oswald,
(Price Eleven Pence)
FIVE LETTERS,
addressed to the
Yeomanry of the United States:
CONTAINING some Observations on the
Scheme of V/m* Duer Esq. and Mr Secreta
' v Hamilton, to eftabiifti National Manufactures ,
by a FARMER. This pamphlet, so highly in
teresting at this period, may be had at the follow
ing places ; at Mr. Oswald's Printing-Office, No
156, Market-street j at No. 209, Market-lheetj
at Mr. Dobfon's, 41, South Second-street $ al
Mr. Cruklhanks, 91, Market-street j at Mr,
Aitken's, 22, Market-street j and at Mr. Young's
S. W. corner of Chefnut and Second-streets.
August 21.
NOTICE.
THIS is to for warn all masters of vefTels and
others, at, their peril, not to take a certain
mulatto Boy, named Lewis Eoget, formerly of
Cayenne, out of this city, he being lawfully bound
and apprenticed to me, untill 16th Nov. 1793 ;
as I have reason to fufpe£t he is endeavouring to
leave this city. JAMES ROBERTSON.
October 9. tf
1
T O THE PUBLIC.
fublcriber returns his molt rel'pe&ful
compliments to his friends, and the public
for tpe many favours he has received, and beg*
leave to inform them that he has upon hand, a
few fine toned FORTE PIANOS, which he will
warrant superior to any imported, and which lie
will dispose of on reasonable terms.
The great number of Forte Pianos lately
imported from London and Dublin, induces the
subscriber to caution the public againlt the artful
inlinuations of persons, commiiVior.ed to vend
them, who for a very trilling cotapenfation re
commend inilruments that are nothing but the
refufe of European mufic-ftiops, and imported a:
a mere trifle, and fold for the fame price as a gooc
inftrumeot, to the great dilappointment of the ig
noiant purchaser, who generally pay a* much tq;
repairs in a year or two, as the original «©il of a
good instrument.
N. B. Muficai instruments let out by the
month or quarter, likewise muficai instruments
tuned and repaired in the beit manner, and on the
most reasonable tern v, bv
CHARLES TAWES,
No. 60, Walnut near Third-ltreet.
o£kober 10. 4c
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale at the Printing-Oflice,
No. 209, Market-Street,
and at Thomas Dobfon's Book-Store in
Second-Street,
Price Three-Eighths of a Dollar,
ADVICE
TO THE
PRIVILEGED ORDERS,
in the
SEVERAL STATES OF EUROPE,
Reflating from the neceflity and pro
priety of a General Revolution in
the Principle of Government.
By Joel Barlow, Esquire.
Terres a Vendre
Dan un pat's b\en peuple\—
S AVOIR, fcixante cjnq mille, trois cens,fo»x
ante et quatorze Acres* en une fenle piece, i
Jans le canton le mieux peuple de la Caroline Me
ridional?, leDifttidtde Ninety-Six. Ces terrej
font fituees dans une contiee agreable, et falubre,
ou les fievres W)nt inconnuesj a environ vingt lieues
de Colombie, la Capitaie, et contigues ala viJle
de Cambridge, ou il y a College, et Cour fuperi
eure. A environ douze lieues, iI y a bonne navi
gation ; et il eft tres probable, que dans quelque
tems on rendra navigable le Grand SaJude, riviere
qui arrofe les terres memes. Elles font agreable»
ment diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons charman
propres a la culture du tabac, du coton, du mais
et du petit grain jet dont une proportion consider
able fe peut aifement convertir en prairies fertiles
il n'eft peut-etre guercs poilible de rencontrer une
pareille piece de terre a vendre dans aucun autre
des Etats Unis jet pour les conditions de l'achat
on les rendra trcs commodes.
S'informer a rimprimerie de la Gazette Na
tionale. Sept. 5.
*r
LANDS for SALE,
TN a well fettled Country. SIXTY-FIVE
i THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY.FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in one
body, in the most populous part of the state of
South-Carolina, in the difbifl of Ninety-fix--.lt
is situated in a fine healthy climat»»,frce from fevei
& ague,about sixty miles from Columbia, the feat
of government. The land is contiguous to the
town of Cambridge, where are a seminary for the
inftru&ion of youth, and a superior law court. It
is at present within about thirty-five miles of good
navigation, with a probability of having the river
called the Great Saiuaa, that flows along one fide
of the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
fully diverfifisd into swells and vales, and is per
fectly well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and fmalJ grainy a great
proportion of it may be made meadow ground.
There is not, perhaps, such a body of land, focir
cumftanced, for sale in any other of the U; States,
The terms of payment will be made convenient to
the purchaser or purchafeis. Apply to the Printer.
August 29. law tf
BOOKS,
Piinttd and fold by
MATIIEW CAREY,
No. 118, Markel-Strest, Philadelphia.
1. American Museum, front its commencement•
n 'January 1787, to June 1792., /n eleven volume*
Price, neatly bound ant* lettered) Seventeen dollars
and tbr tefifrb:.
This loork which is now conducted on an im
proved pian, containing the.be ft pieces pubHfhedfur
and a gain [I the procaeaings of government, will be
found to contain at leafl as great a variety of poli
tical', agricultural, andmijcel'laneous ejfays, as any
ever published in America. Perhaps in no one work
are Jo many valuable documents rtJpeEl.ng tbe bijlo
ry of this country t col letted to7ether. His excel
lency tbe Preftdent of tbe United States, bas de
clared of it, that " a more ufeful literary plan
has never been undertaken in America, nor one
more deserving of public encouragement." Ibe
jubjeription is two dollars and a half per annum*
Gentlemen in the country who wish to be supplied
with this work, are requejled to give Commijjion to
friends in tbe city to JubJcribe Jor and receive it.
2. Smith's letter* to married women, on nursing
and tbe management of cbi dren. "We recommend
these letters to tbeperufal of th<fe to whom they art
particularly add* efjed.' Monthly Review Vol. 9
Page 101. Price bjund five eighths of a dollar•
Duncan en tj of logic, three fourths of a
dohar.
4. Beauties of Fielding, 50 cents.
5. beauties oj Blair, 50 cents.
6. LaJies' Pocket Library-— tent lining \—Mij»
Morels Ejj'ays j Gregory 'j Legacy j Lady Pen
nington s advice j Marcbionejs of Lambert s ad
vice -j Swfe s letter to a newly mar tied .ady 5
Mrs. Chapone on command of temper , Mora's fa
bles for the ladies Price 6/6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Price a dol
lar and a quarter.
7, Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, 1.1.d. proffjtr of moral pbilojopby and logic
I'i tbe Alar if chat Co-lege, Aberdeen—Price three
fourths of a dollar• Of this book tbe Critical Re
viewers (vol. 65. p. 6zß J Jay :" We have Jeen
nothing on these Jfbjefls more plain, more perfpicu
us, or more generaly ufeful. *
9. Beauties of Poetry, Price four fifths of a
! dollar,
iq. Blair's Set mous,-- Pricetivo dollars.
11. Neckw's Treatije en tbe importan. cos reli
gious opinions. Price four fifths of a dohar.
12 Examination of the objervations of Lord Shef
field on American Commerce. Price, on very fine
paper, five eighths of a dollar.
15. The Qon/litut ions of tbe fever al United States t
ivitb the federal Conflitution, &~c. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14 M'Fingal, Price three eighths of a dollar• %
15. American Jelt Rook, three fifths of
dollar.
16. Garden of the Saul, ha f a dolar.
17. The Douay Tranfistion of the vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto. Price, elegantly oound and lettered,
$ofz —plain, fix dollars-
Said Carey has for sale, a large affr-rtmewt of
bocks, European as well as American editions,
which be will d fipofe cf on tbe mo ft reajonable terms,
Country gentlemen, who favor bun with commands,
may depend upon being Jupplied in tbe mcfl Jatisfac
tory manner. A-ibera a.lowance to Jucb as pur
chase quantities for public libraries, or to fell again.
May j7. - 6:n.ia.w.
TAKE NOTICE.
T^. r HEREAS a mulatto man LUK 5- ,
V V the property of the fublcnber living in
Accomack county, Virginia, ran a-.vay from
him on the firft day of September last, and was
taken up and committed to the gaol of Newcas
tle county, in the State of Delaware, on the 14th
day of September, where he rcmain'd until the
4ih ot this inliant, Oflober, when a Mr. Jones,
who said he lived in Fredeiick Town, in the
county of Cecil, in Maryland, appeared and pro
duced a Benjamin Fergulbn, who made oath
that he fufpetted the said slave to be a freeman,
named John Wright, who had failed with the
laid Fergufon in a schooner belonging to the said
Jones, and had committed a burglary on board
of her in July last, ?n consequence of which the
laid {lave was delivered by order of the hon.
David Finney, a supreme judge of the said {late
of Delaware, to the said Jones, to take his trial
for the said supposed offence. As lam fully
convinced from the deffription of the said
slave, given to *ie by th; gaoler, that he is my
property, and that the said Fergufonhas millaken
him for Wright, I do hereby direst the said Mr.
Jones, and Fergufon, to return the laid {lave to
the place from whence they took him, and to
inform me thereof, etherwife 1 {hall proceed
according to law.
JOHN CROPPER, Jun.
Oti. 16th. 17512. 2a.w-3w.
Manufactured and for Sale,
At No. it, N&rth Sixth-Jircet,
Fafliionable Round Top and Flat
BUTTONS,
Warranted superior to any imported of'^|
equal price.
Country Store-keepers supplied either in
small or large quantities, By
S. POST & Co.
N.B. Conkfhel Buttons, Bucklcs, &c.
Oft. 17. eawtf
riINTED bv
CHI LD S AND SWA IN E,
AT THEIR OFFICE NO. 209, HTGfI-4T RE£ T>
NEAR FIFTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA*