t : , 0 | y /
'lyi ff • \ *>/
Vol. I.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
An invefliiaiion of the Causes, which pro
duct tL Bilious and Ramttent FevtrS.
Add re (Ted to the Medical Society of
Delaware State.
r-r-»ms f-.:bjeft, as easy as it may ap
\ X pear, cannot, I conceive, be ia
tisfaftorily explained, but upon an ex
tensive Scale of realoning, and a tiritt
observance to a correspondent accuracy
in the chain of investigation, which
will, I pr:i'umc, indisputably a fail me
to trace the causes to their origin, tc
cftabliih firm prernifes, and enable me
to deduce just conclusions.
Sdlun i. 1 fliall endeavor to give a
r , -ieral an dytic-ldeferiptiionof the com
ponent pans of that t ran ( parent elastic
tl'-iid, which immediately lurrounds ti:.
terraqueous globe, and is called the at
mosphere.
Sec. 2. I shall point out the change,
the atmosphere undergoes at certain lea
fons of the year from the combined ope
rations of certain fpecific cautes ; ane>
in
Sec. 3. I flvdl endeavour to prove,
upon the principles of inductive rea
soning, that the effe&s resulting from the
combined ope ration of th c-(
thcfaond fechon, are the causes, which
produce those fevers fpecified above.
Sec. I. I shall endeavor to give a gene
ral analytical description of the compo
nent parts of that traniparent elastic
fluid, which immediately lurrounds the
terraqueous globe, and is called the at>
inoiphcre.
The volume of air which encircle;
our globe is the secondary property in
the order of nature, and which may just
ly.be called the Secundum Mobile 111 the
rreat machinery of this planetary (yftem.
It is bv this that all animated nature ex
ists ; it is what we breathe, it is pene
trable to all bod : s ; it is the medium
through which light, heat, moisture.
found, &c. are conduced. "It was
formerly supposed to be a homogeneous
fluid, but from the ingenious invc(liga
tions and experiments of philosophers
and chemists of the pre'ent age, it has
been clearly si.own to be a compound
heterogeneous body, con(ifling of twe
' kinds of airs elfentially different from
each other in their properties.
These airs may be obtained in sepa
rate states by chemical procelTes, and
when obtained in those states, thc\
were supposed by the ancient chemists
to be Ample elementary bodies," but
modern chemists have proved there is
another component part highly elfential
and very different from the other pro
perties of the atmosphere, denominated
by M. Lavoisier, the Caloric principle:
this principle, when combined with the
other component parts of the atmos
phere, keeps it in solution and reduces
it to the aeriform state in which we
breathe it.—l conceive the caloric prin
ciple to be wholly dependent on the Sun
lor its exiftcnce, and if there were a to
f . tal fubduction or abftratlion of the Calo
ric from the other component parts ol
the atmosphere, it would be converted
into a fclid mals, produce a confufion in
the revolutions of the planetary fyflenfts.
and Eruftrate the very delignsof nature.
This Caloric principle, for the mofi
part, exists diflufed wi;h the other pro
perties of the atmosphere in a quiekent
or latent state, but may be rendered fen
hblc both by natural and artificial pro
cefTes.
•• These component parts may be de
compoiccl, i'ep,-rated from each other,'
and compounded with other bod es,
and made to aii'ume very different forms
and properties from those which the*
pvOeifrd in their original state of com
bir.ation.
Tho different airs that ccmpofe the
ataiol-phere are ekplilogillicated an<
ir.ephitic air. which are always found tc
FRENEAU: Fublijhed Mondays and Thursdays, at 1 iir i.e-Do> ..
T H-U R. S D A Y, May 31, i 79 2 -_
exist in a combined state, in the propor
tion of 27 parts of dephlogifticated and
r > parts of mephitic or impure air, in an
hundred parts of atmospheric air. nc
proportions here fpccihed are boweyei
frequently varied by the combination
of certain causes and circumftani.es
ducing different results. It is this de
phlogifticated part of the air, calleu by
M. Lavoisier and other French chemiits,
the oxygen gas, that supports animal lite,
combuition, &c. the mephitic or azotic
gas, is that part which kills animals,
extinguilhes flame, and is remarkable
for its levity ; this, in respect to its Spe
cific gravity, is as one to twelve wiLh the
former.
The position I presume being granted,
that the density of the atmospheric an,
is in the direst ratio to the preilure cf the
(aper-incumbent volume, conlequenily,
the quantity of the oxygenous principle
in a given (pace, is mathematically (qua
red by the above proportion ; therelore
the nearer we are lo the furface of tire
earth, the more of this oxygenous pait
we breathe : This obviously llluftrates,
how wifely the creator has disposed all
things for the conveniency of animated
nature. This analysts of the atmoi
phere by M. Lavoisier and others, if it
be just, may perhaps help to resolve ma
ny phenomena in the arcana of natui~,
open a w ide avenue to the clear percep
tion of truth, and enable us to .travel
with increafmg pleasure "Crooki-a
paths of Icience.
Having given a general (and perhaps
a true)defcription of the atmofpl.ei e and
its component parts, I proceeu. to
the investigation of the tecond head.
Sec. 11. I P.:.'ill point out the chan>
ges the atmolpliere undergoes at certain
leafons of the year, lrom the combined
operation of certain fpecilic cauies.
The annual revolution of tae earth
round the 'Sun clearly reiolves the cauies
of the various seasons on the c! Cerent
parts of the globe, and as this planet in
the summer season is delcendmg in its
orbit, at the fan-,e time in conjanthon
with the inclination of the Sun, it pro
duces what is called the lummer Sol
flicc* —A little before this period the
effe&s of a change in the (late ot the
atmolphere is observed to take place, in
consequenCe of an accumulation of the
caloric principle or matter of hi c, 1 are. \ -
ing the air. which rarefaction occaiion.
an extension of that part of the atmol
oliere which immediately encircles us.
that is, the extremity oi the atmolpliere
(if I may be allowed the expression) is
at a greater didancc from the furface ol
the earth, than when this matter oi (lie
is withdrawn, or when it is converted
into a latent or quiescent (late by any
other cauie, therefore there is leis rei
pirable dephlogifticated air in a giver,
space at the period of the partial zenith
of the Sun with refpeft to the latitude ol
•o N. than at its deelination. We
find the rarefaction of the atmospheric
air varies according to the degrees of la
titude. together with other concomitant
circumstances and htuaiions favoring tin
change.
These diseases, mentioned above,gene
rally make their appearance at tins sea
son of the year, when the air depend:
alone on the aceumuia: ,cr, cf the calori:
principle or matter cf lire, for its change,
independent of any other efiential can
l>s, hut there are lend jitun!ions ana hcc
, irruniftawcs, (as ihe ieaii-n advances
that concur to produce a partial decom
position of the atmolpliere, and whicl
* Mr. Martin in his tree!f\on natur
philosophy obferv(kit at ?. of the clock
pod meridiem, the < !■■• ret: vearvae
than r.t the mci idiem in the furmner season
this pofti.ri by actual exfe
rivaii, will juHljy vs. it: extending tl ' idu
a little ■ -irtl.er, that is, th.e fare part of lit
month Of Aupifiit warmer than at the fun
vicr Solfiice, 'in the'faraz degree of lalitud-
■rve to encrcafe the virulence of tncfe
;!;feafes.
i his partial dccompofition of the at
nofphere may be explained under the
;caas of local ktuatiou and local ciicum
dances.
id. There are many fxtuations in A
; erica and in other parts of the world
hat particularly favour this change ; a
ew of those mod favourable I shall
:ame. Thele are the countries on the
anks of the Delaware river from Tren
on to Cape May ; the Eastern Shore of
Maryland, many parts of tlie state ot
/lrgmia,South-Carolina, and Georgia ;
,-reat part of South America : beiides
hefe there are numberleis situations in
4Jia and Africa that conspire to.destroy.
he balance of the atmosphere.
2d. The circumstances attendant on
hefe situations are the vast trails of low
narfhy grounds partially cultivated, on
vhich there are great quantities of flag
rant water and vegetable rubbish. It is
n the latter part of July and the firft
>f August in this latitude (40-N.) that a
argc part of the low ground-vegetables
;ave their fir ft growth and fall to the
•arth, but this progreflive advancement
f vegetable life is varied in proportion
.0 the degree of latitude, and kind of
oil, in which these local situations may
jo. It appears evident that the balance
if the atiTiofphere aiuft be materially
ffe&ed in confcquence of tlie finifhed
rrowth of a great part of the vegetable
in-dom : for M. Foarcroy obierves
hat the " use of vegetables appears to
•. from Mr. Ingenhouz's experiments,
j abfoibthe phlogiftiCated air by their
.-tenor lurface and to emit dephlogifti
its. ;i sir from the J': >crior, wr.cn they
X 2 expuieii Cu uii>y iu.i
lie atmosphere is renewed," and re
stored to its natural equlibrium. Bc
(ldes these causes mentioned above
which destroy the equilibrium of the
itmofphere, there are others equally
conducive to that effcct. These are
those vegetables, which fall into the
stagnant waters and undergo the differ
:nt fiages ot fermentation. The cir
jumftances neceifary to promote the dif
ferent procclles ot fermentation, are the
;hree following—l ft. A certain degree
:>f moillure, 2d. moreor lefsof heat, and
jd. the contact ot air.
The inteibine motion which is occasi
oned in all the stages of fermentation, is
excited by the above conditions, and
which totally changes the properties of
:hofe vegetables. In thio elaborate pro
ofs there is a considerable degree of
heat generated, a different l'ubftance
produced, the oxygenous principle of
;he atmosphere is ablorbed, which is one
jf the ci: ,-ntial component parts of the
new prod jced fubilance : In the time
of fermentation there is a decomposi
tion taking place, and a considerable
quantity of fixed air evolved ; this air
does not ascend like inflammable air in
confcquence of its great weight, confe
qucntly circulates over the fermenting
body, and is very pernicious to animal
life, extinguishes flame, &.c.
An atmosphere impregnated with this
fpccies of air, may be dilcovered by the
dullness of the burning of tapers, flam
bcaus ":c. it is observed that tapers dc
not burn with that livelynefs in low
iv.arfky situations at certain seasons oi
the year, as they do in higher and dry n
filiations,J this is a fait direclly in
point, that the balance of the atmos
phere is destroyed.
Over these extensive low grounds
where the process fermentation it
continuing in its progreflive advance
ment, the dephlogiflicated principle oi
the atmosphere mud be greatly dimi
nished, and a large quantity of fixed ail
generated. These cables affigned,ma;,
I: if obfevged thatftkc -lamps bckzi
Market firutfjß not appear Jo luminous h
the/urn ;;nrjeafen r.f th>\< do above Mar
kct-Jtreel.
Numb. 62.
perhaps help to resolve the causes of the
vast exhalation of moisture from the
earth in the day, and the sudden fall of
the dews on the withdrawing oPthc fun.
in all hot climates ; also this may per
haps juftifv a conje&ure, thcit the rai
ny seasons in the warm latitudes of the
glebe, depend for their existence upon,
the fame causes, and it will be well to
remark,that the great floods of rain com
mence in those months, when there is
the greatest want of balance existing
in the atmosphere. jJ/jfk
An accumulation of the calorie prin
ciple or matter of fire, and a dense atmos
phere are highly incompatible with each
other, and cannot poflibly both exist in
the fame place at the fame time.
[The remainder irv our next.J
.
Subjlance of Mr. GERRY's Speeih on
Mr .Bourne'smotion of M >y)for
ajfuming iherefdue of the State Debts :
Mr. GERRY observed, when
this question was last under considera
tion, he had followed gentlemen who
were opposed to it in their arguments
through the extensive field of the consti
tutionality, policy and equity of the
meal'ure, and that he now should con
fine himfelf to the datemcrit of some
facts and a few observations thereon.
It appears, he laid, by official re
ports, that the unaffumed deljts of the fe
deral dates, are as follows :
dollars.
Of New-Hampshire 4 3 5° i
MafTachufetts *8385.0
Rhode-Island 349 .59
Connecticut 3*3766
New-York 23878
New- Terfey - 73.51
Virginia 2^5126
South-Carolina 1965756
Georgia 40~ooci
Total 5166177
It also appears, that the following
fittitious debts have been aii'umed, viz.
Dols.
For Pennsylvania 10 1 >
Delaware 1 ■ 1
Maryland 7'. 74
North-Carolina 20; ,-j
Total 1262818
From this statement it is inanifed that
u-hildf -veralofthe states are exonerated
of the debts contrasted for the support
of the war, and others have but a small
proportion of them unaifumed, the
dates of South Carolina and Muffachu
i'ctts are pressed wiih a heavy debt of
nearly two millions of dollars each.—
This, he laid, is a grievance that re
quires immediate redress, and should
Congress rife without providing it, they
would forfeit that confidence in their
generosity, honor and justice, which had
been ever entertained by the citizens of
MafTachufetts —No gentleman, he said,
could deny, that the exertions of that
state in support of the independence of
the United States, had equalled those of
any other state in the union ; the do
cuments would prove that MalTachufetts
had not been exceeded by any of her
sister dates in the amount of her advan
ces, or in the economy of her expendi
tures ; and her exertions to fink the
debt, which commenced with the debt
itfelf, were finally so great as to have
produced convulsions in the state.
The unaffumed debt of that state, from
the bed information which he could ob
tain,""was in the hands of the substantial
yeomanry thereof, who, having never
{"peculated in the funds, were original
holders. —Most of these, either by art,
or by accident, had been mifinformed
relative to the time for receiving sub
scriptions to the loan, and had thus been
prevented from having a pari of their
debts assumed. It will be, therefore,
peculiarly hard, whild Cor.grcfs aro
calling on thisclafsof citizens, for theii
proportion of contributions to pay the,deuis tl.ua to r/,.ier?, th ' no provision is
Kiade for the payment of their just-de
mand : and tha cafe is aggravated, when
it is c< : "red that their contributions
arc net confined to rnal, but are extend
ed to fictitious debts, and that whilst
they are uni iftly required to pay inter
est on >he latter, their just claims arere-
Je&ed for interest on the former. It is
-till more grievous, when it isconfider
cd that whilst government refufe to re
imourie the sums ad"anced by Mafl'a
chul;tts for the defence of her filter
states, ten or fifteen years past, she is
called on for large fuins to defend their
frontiers against favagc incursions.
What mult be the feelings of the citi
zens of MalTachufetts, when they are in
formed, that Perinfytvania, whole fron
tiers are now invaded, and who is re
ceiving; the interest of an imaginary debt
OO _ .
of above a million of dollars, is calling
on them for supplies to carry on the
■war, and at the fame time refufes to dif
ch trge their advances for her defence,
during the late war P Indeed , some of
the members ttf\this flats have been al
ways liberal on the great question of
a ''umJt:o:i, and nave uniformly lupport
ed it, b.;t others have opposed it, and
t.ie votes of the former have been ren
dered ineffcdtual by those of the latter.
Under such ci:cam{|atices, would not
the members of South-Carolina and
MalTachufetts have been juftified in re
fusing aids for support of the Indian
war, and in defeating this measure, by
joining in the opposition to it ? Would
they not have been warranted in thus
compelling Pennfylvaißa to have de
fended herfelf by her Jbwti resources,
and to have exhibited her claims for
fupportfng this war, to be adjusted
with those of other states for supporting.
the revolution P True it is, that in such
an event many of the innocent citizens
of the weltern frontiers would have fal
len a facrifice, and some of their own
representatives would have been charge
able for the consequences ; but so far
were the members of South Carolina,
MalTachufetts, and other creditor States
from adopting such policy, that they
have advocated the measures fir defend
ing the weltern frontiers, and arc now
to be sent home in disgrace to their
constituents, for having spent a great
. O 1 O
part of the lemon in pursuing rational
measures to promote the welfare of those
slates. who have had no disposition to
dojufticc to the creditor Itates. Could
he have rorefeen, he laid, such an event
he would not have taken his feat in the
house this leflion but he Itill hoped,
as it was well known and ascertained
beyond 5 doubt, that MalTachufetts
would have a claim against the Uni
•ted States far exceeding the fumpropo-j
fed to be afTumed for her, that the house
would consider the fub;e£t in a candid
ipanner ; that the members would di
-veft themfclvcs of local conhderati
ons, and that they would adopt mea
sures confident with liberality and jul
tice. Indeed, he laid, it was for the in
terest even of the debtor states to al
fume the debts, because, when the ac
counts arc liquidated, the debts due to
the -creditor dates will not be due
from the union, but from the debtor
slates, and if the union is to be taxed
for those debts, the creditor states will
be obliged.to contribute to the reim
buricment of advances, which they
have made for the other Itates. This
cannot be done confidently with justice,
and will therefore be a source of great
uueafinefs and embarrassment to govern
ment : whereas, if the debts of the citi
zens of the states are now alTumed, and
.the claims of the states are thus dimi
nished, the cause of the embarralTment
will in a great measure be prevented.
Jle hoped therefore, the motion would
be adopted, and that the refiduc of the
ilatc debts would be now alTumed.
FOREIGN NEK'S.
(By the Pigou, and other late arrivals.)
Lo.voo::. Apul i—3. The opinion of
the nation feerns never to hare been fo'ge
nerally fixed upon the abolition of the Afri
can Cave trade, a> at the present period of
time. The ortler of this day in parliament
v,-as that the House. in committee-os the
whole, take the African {lave trade into
consideration. —The princip 1 speaker in
favor of; he abolition of the {lave trade was
Mr. Wilberfofce : fever T :'joke again it,
among whom was Col. Tarleton. Tow
artl? the end of the debat?, Mr. Dundas, .
(who in the main agreed in his idea: with |
vV «b -; force bat as to the mode
of abolition) tiiacle an amendment to tii
motion for abolition " that it i. •he o'pinior
of the committee that tile trade hi flakes be
tween the coast ( f,Africa and the Weit
'ndia island : should gra hially be abolished.'
On taking the queuion there, was out c!
318, who voted, a majority of fcß in favor
>f the amendment —and on the queflion
" that the motion thus amended do pais.'
t>ut of the frme number (318) that voted,
there appeared a majority of 145. —In the
rourfe of the debate several {hocking in
tances were produced by Mr. Wiiberforce
jf cruelties and other excesses committed
n the trade—on the recital of which the
10life was {truck With inexpressible horror.
And the names of the captains were voci
ferously denanded. who could thu; ait con
trary to every dictate of honour, honefry,
snd justice. Those who spoke against the
lbolition juftified it, for til? nioft part, on
the plea of neceliity—" take away the flavc
trade (said they) and you involve in itsruin
i refpefiabli? part of other branches of trade,
md the manufactures of the kingdom."
Accounts have been received from India
via St. Helena) {lating that Lord Corn
vallis had blocked up Tippoo Sai'o in Se
'ingapatam, the beginning of December.
Vo credit, however, is given to this ac
count, any more than that brought by the
h'p Earl Cornwallis, that Tippoo's capital
.vas taken.
The High Chancellor of the German em
fre has written to all the eleuoral courts
>f the several circles, iuforming them of the
leceflity o*" proceeding without loss of time
o the election of a chief of the Germanii
>od>— the month of July is mentioned as
he latest period of the eleition of Emperor.
Notwithstanding the continental newf
'apers declare that the Austrian troops are
low upon the march for the Low Coun
ries, all our private letters contradict the
{fertion ; not a (ingle regiment is in fact in
not'on, and wecan confidently declare that
he German papers arc paid by the emi
;rants to keep France in a ferment.
A rebellion (if it may be so called) has ta
:en place in Helte Caffel, in Germany, and
he Prince of that place has been obliged tc.
ly his territories to avoid the vengeance of
iic people. There is not one of the tyrants
if Germany To justly abhorred by hisfubjeciS
nd even by his army as this prince. Tin'
vas the wretch who fold his troops to
jreat Britain to carry despotism and slave
y into America ; and made a traffic in hu
nan blood, to fiil his coffer-, while he fuf
ered the face of his country to become a
Ireary waste, thro' his inattention to agri
iulture—ln his whole dominion mae-;fac
ures are unknown, and the people are \:i
he greatest misery. It would not be be
ieved that tyranny could have been carried
vithout punishment to such excesses as it
las been in Caflel. In every family there
las been a spy. No gentleman could give
.11 additional dilli at his table, v/ithoat he.-,
ing it reported to the prince, and in Tome
vay or another the strong hand of power
[ iieezed him of what was called his fuper
.bundance.
The injufcice which he practised to t'nefe
■ery troops, which he fold to the Englilh.
;s a grazier fells steep to the butcher, and
vhich were used up in America, was so
narked and inhuman, that it has fixed a
ooted enmity in the hearts of his army,
vhich only w aits for a proper time to bur'it
nto open indignation.
Such was the alarm of this prince that he
led all the way to Hainau, [50 milesjwith
>ut flopping forrefrelhment or re{t.
A veflel, jufl arrived from India, brings
he disagreeable account of an engagement
>etween an Englilh and a French frigate
lear Tellicherry road, in which the latter
vas taken after a warm engagement, with
he loss of a number of men on both fides.
The engagement was in consequence of an
>rder from commodore Cornwallis to
' arch every veflel in those parts under Im
lerial and French colours, it having been
onjeftured that several such were employ
■d infupplying Tippoo Saib with arms and
ammunition. The French frigate (called
Refolu) had two merchantmen under
ler convoy, which made off whiie the two
Hips were engaging. The .French frigate,
ifter {h iking, was towed into a French
>ortand abandoned. It is much feared thi
■vent will be attended with disagreeable
:onfequences.
We can {late with certainty, that the
lew king of Hungary has made a declara
tion importing, that the lituation of things
ivould rot permit him to interfere in the
'•fairs of France ; that he could give no af
iftaoce to the French emigrants, nor even
mter into the views of the German orinces
•elative to their rights in Lorraine end Al
ace. I 1 consequence of this declaration,
the troop.- who were upon the march have
eceivqd orders to return.
The news of an ir.furrection at Hefie Caf
fel is confirmed. Tjie Landgrave, wifhins
1 regiment to befent to Sangeweht, a fmaii
own on the Rhine,' v here he has othefs,
irdered it to appear on the parade. Beinc
ere drawn soldiers came out o
ne ranks, and elefired to speak to the cap
ain. They obtained the permission, and
n the liurne of their comrades demanded to
be'pv.id r• in time of war. The Frlne: o.
Hells was informed of this immediately
and in answer ordered the five fold er:; tc
run the gauntlet (pafier aux. verges) in
. i:uitly. jfhfe re;\ : ften»;hearing this order,
declared they would not fufter the execu
tion of'it. The noise'(Dreading, all the gar
rison c' CafTel ran to tne Parade, and the
people followed in multitudes, threatening
that the prince iiimfelf ilionld undargd the
puiiii'hment. if he dared to carry his orders
into execution.
The Landgrave retired to his castle. and
proceeded the following night to Kanau,
near Frankfort, where he was when the let
ter-, came from thence;
Exchange has taken a very favorable turn
in France, and has gained from 15 to ao per
cent, within a few days past, with every
appearance of a continuation in the rife.
—Some new appointments have taken
place iri the miniftr*, viz. M. Grenice,
keeper of the Seal. M. Roland de la p la
tiere, minister of the home department;
and M. Claviere, minister of Finance
The sixteen hundred millions, in allignats
(national notes) voted by the alterably were
10 be iffiied by the flrft of April.
By the last accounts from India, Tippoc
Saib had come out of Seringapatam, and
had entrenched hirnfelf strongly about ten
miles from it. Lord Cornwallis ar.d the
grand army were advancing towards him
and it is probable their meeting has been
deciflve; his Lordship having determined
on an immediate attack.
The last letters from Coblentz announce,
tfiLt the emigrants are aifembiing there in
greater numbers than ever, ail those from
Worms and its neighbourhood, and alfu
from the Netherlands, repairing thither
as to a place of a general rendezvous. —
Within fifteen days they are expected to a
mount to 14,000 infantry and 6coo cavalry.
The Princes had concluded a treaty with
the Prince of Hbhenloe, for all the troops
he can . urniih. This treaty is worded be
tween Sovereign and Sovereign, the French
Princes negotiating in the name of the
King of France detailed in captivity.
On the 1 7th of March, dieri at Worms,
the Chevalier de Blois, who was much em
ployed by the emigrant Princes, without
obtaining any recompence for his fcrvices-
Incenfedat their neglect, he declared on his
death bed, that they were the authors oi
the malfacres at Avignon, Aries, Nifmes,
and St. Domingo, and of the mutinies in
the regiments; that supported by the Ita
lian and Spanish clergy, they had money e
nough to desolate the earth ; that havinp
been ill used by the Prince de Conde, and
1 ■ co indant M. de Grenole, he repented
; eartily of the many journies he had made
to France, and the evils of which he had
been the instrument; and that his last
breath would be to beg pardon of God and
hi country.
An account was received 0:1 Wednesday
-"tiling that the insurgents in the city of
Aries had surrendered, and marched out to
receive the troops fentout againlt them.
Advices from the Fail-Indies fay, that
General Chalmers, a"ter a noble defence,
in which he displayed tlje greatest bravery,
joined to an exertion of eqnal ab'lites. has
at length been obliged to surrender Coim
barore to the forces of Tipooo Sa,b.
The following is the answer given by
Prince Kaunitz (fint minister to Leo
pold 2d. ) to the rrquilition of the
King of France, That the late Fmperor
(hould recognize the sovereignty of the
French nation, the freedom of the King,
and the legality of his acceptance of the
constitution. (This requilition was to have
been presented to the Emperor on the very
day he died. ) " The King of Hungary,
having fully adopted the political system of
the late Fmperor, he will explain himfelf
with the franknefs that becomes a great
power. The King of France complains of
the afi'embling of troops in Germany. No
aifembiing of troops there i known, that
ought to be considered as an indication oi
holtility'. Troops are afiembled in much
greater numbers in France. The King of
Hungary and the Princes of Germany
may perhaps think it proper toaflenibic ttii'i
greater numbers to maintain the internal
peace of their several states, dilturbed by
the examples of the troubles in France,
and the criminal machinations of the Jaco
b n party ; but these Princes will never
ronfent to t : e up their own hands in this re
[peJt, which no power has a right to re
quire of them.
" With respect to the engagements and
concerns between the court of Vienna and
the molt refpe£l.able powers of Europe,
that court will continue to maintain them,
till the French nation, adopting a milder
course, (hall repel the insinuations of afan
guinary faction that excites tumults and
acts of violence against the liberty 9f the
king and the faith of treaties; butftiould
the deiigns and the arts of that faction.pre
vail, the king of Hungary
that the found and principled part of the
nation will consider as a consoling profped
of support the of a concert, the
view; or which are worthy of its confidence,
and the molt important trifis that has evei
afecred the common interests of Europe.'
~—' his answer was treated with a degree
of contempt by the aftembiy, particular!}
'■ . rifjj *- :!;? J.'cobi" % and thtf
"PP ' - to.'thefnttndpart tf the nation—mean
in; tile ariftorrats.
omits from Ind' - far. rhat General
Chalmers farrentiered the fortrefs of Co
imbatore to" the forces 'of Tippoo Saib, on
the faith of articles of capitulation, bv
which he was to be allowed to march wi: h
his garrifori to Polligatcherry: but contra
ry to the rules of war, and in open viola
tion of public, pledged faith, after having
been in confinement some days, and fuffer
inginany insult", he and his garrison were
lent prisoners to Seringapatam : Such is
t ie reliance to be placed on treaties with a
savage !
KotwithflanfiiiTr all the surmises ant! re
ports of the emperor of Germany having
been poisoned, it is now uaiverfally be
lieved by all (exc?pt those who believe
that kings and emperors cannot die like
common men) that his whole disease pro
ceeded from a dysentery too fuddcnly {top
ped lad \ear Upon opening hi-; body£.tbe
two lobes of tne hings were found to be
covered with a thick phlegm : in the richt
lobe was a quart ot-' water. Vienna mea
sure, and a spoon full in the left lobe. The
heart was flaccid : the reins dry ; the sto
mach and l lie brain in as good condition as
in the ftxmdeft body.
From the ft .re in which it appeared, the
vomiting by which the emperor was fuffo
cated'could not have been occasioned by
the floniach. From all the circumstances,
it is imagined, that his death was occasion
ed by a i inflammation of the lu.igs and the
viscera of the lower beliy. It is still in
comprehenfib e how his physicians could
have mistaken the fymptops of approach
ing death for recovery. 7 heir alfurances
on the morning of the ift. inft. that theJr
patient was out of danger, inspired the
imperial family with a degree of confident e,
whi<?h rendered the fatal reverie still mop
afflicting.
Various letters from Paris all agree that
fmce the appointment ofthenew minister -
every thing in that capital is reftorcd to
tranquility and good order : and it was
expected the disorders in the southern parts
or the kingdom would loon be at an end.
_ The recruitment of the army (fay Pe
rifian accounts) has amounted already to
1 to,coo effective men, inltead of 51 roo.
Patriotism is not a mere idea in France ■ &
though many good citizens seem to dread
war as not very distant, notwithffand'ne
the deat.i of yet a comparative
view of the formidable force of France
with that of her supposed enemies, is fuf
fkientto destroy their fears.—To remedy
in feme refpe£t the enormous expence.t
which have been totally caused by the cori
duft of the emigrants, the national assem
bly have decreed, that an indemnity {hall
he made from the general mass of their
property lor the difhurfements hitherto
made by the nation in warlike prepara
tions. The emigrants still continue flock
ing home in hundreds ; the Fauxbonrg ft.
Dennis, and St. Martin, are, alive from
dune in the evening, as thele gentry cliuft?
to arrive in the dark. The r equipages are
then washed, the arms neatly varnished
and painted out, and thus equipped, they
make their morning entries, like'honeft ci
tizensinto the capital, unefcutcheoiicd, and
unemblazoned.
Too much has it become the fafhion iir
modern times, and particularly in our own
day, rom a momentary slash of pntrjotifrs
(most frequently the cover for felfiSh pur
po:es; to compare a popular speaker, or
leader of a party, to some one of the re
nowned sages of antiquity, the <!urabil : ty
o-whole fame is due onlv'to the difinireref
ednefs of their public liv'cs. This idea ap
plies, not unaptly, to the celebrated B- ' L .
lately placed by the empress of Russia be
ween thoie of Demosthenes and Cicero.
Nothing is more dangerous than to praise
too soon —j. ime ftampsthe value of preat
characters with an unerring hand, and ne
ver fails todo justice to the defen ing—The
virtues, however, that gained immortality
for the ancients, we are lorry to fav, are
not so much in vogue at prefe'ntas could be
wifl.ed ; and, on this fub : e£t we will take
the liberty to repeat a few lines:
The Grecian orator of old
With scorn rejected Fil lip's laws,
Indignant fpnrn'd at foreign gold,
And triumph'd in his country's cause.
A foe to every wild extreme,
'Mid civil ltorms the Roman fate
Reprefs'd ambition's law'cfs scheme.
And check'd the madd'ning people's
rage.
Do,medic peace, external fame,
V; ith pa'riot 7. al their labours fought;
And Rome's or Ather. 1 sacred name"
Infpir'd and govern'd every thought.
Yi ho then, in tl > prefnmptuous hour
Aspires tofha-ith' Athenian's praise '?
The to: ! conftfs'd of foreign power,
The ila 5 ciiin.es of modern days.
Whatchofen name, to Tulle's ioin'd,
Is now anndune'd tq distant clii . s?—
Behold to lasting fh.ame confign'd
TAc Ccichnc cj later times /$-rATE PAP IR.
Xttfivtvlionft.' n:rd at Virvva the I Piih of 'ttbrua y.
• between his < xerlltncy jffu Count Coioredoi cor:
mifiovrd for th< purptlfe by his imftnnl
am! '•• Baron deßi.fikojlsvjr'der, Mi ifter Ple
nipotentiary of his MajrJly the lung of Pi "j/iu.
t. It is agreed t'r.at t;!iere fliall fublift be
tween !n« Majesty the Emperor, and his Ma
•efty the kin"'of Pruflia, a (inn* and Ming
co-iter. a i well in behalf of themselves as
of their'rufpeftive allies, for the purpose oi
taking fnitable m-afures at all time ;, when
ocrafion may require, to support the ho
nor anil dignity of crowns, againlt any at
tempts made by wicked persons in re'iel
lion, whether they be their own fulv<?£h,
or those of their friend :, or allies, or o!
any Prince or potentate whatever, in whose
person the sovereign dignity may be expo
led to insult.
r?. The two high contrasting pnrtic*.
guarantee to each other in their refpe "live
ellatc", well a' to their different allies,
the poflefion of all the rights, prerogatives
and powers which they enjoy in the laid
estates, or which by ancient law, and ufa
pes arc found to belong thereto, again!!:
any change or innovation whufoever.
3. Their said niajefties promise for them
selves and their allies, not t» t ike part in
any rebellion or revolt which may break
out in any neighbouring States, but on the
contrary, to life their utm<> * endeavors to
fuppref if, for which purpose they will not
receive any fubjeft of other states into their
territories without the knowledge and ap
probation of the fovc r.ign of tirjfe states;
they will apprehend and deliver them up
when required, and prevent asmtich as in
them lies, arms and ammunition from be
ing exported out of their dominions, or
from being fold in them to strangers.
4. The two high contrasting partie'
agree to use theirutmod endeavours to rc
ftore to the crown of France the ancient
rights and prcrc;atives which juflly belonj
thereto, and for this pivrpofe they will em
ploy, as soon as the season will permit, the
following force : —His imperial tna;efty and
his allies eng v;e to bring into the field
120.000effciflivc men, and his Pruilian ma
jesty and his allies engage to furnifi:
£o,cco cffcfljve men, their contingents ir
the army of the empire not included.
Tliefe troops to ast fr. hereafter fliall be
agreed upon between the parties, and tc
be paid by their refpeftive soVereigns, hii
Imperial Mujefty reserving to hnnfelf tilt
liberty of concerting with his allies con
cerning the different quota ro be fufniftied
by each, as well as his P-ruffian Va;elly ft
concert with Ins for the fame purpose. I
contrary to all reasonable expectation, t'li:
force flioul.l prove infufricienr, their Im
perial and Pruflian Majesties will furthei
agree together on such augmentation o
troops as may be thought necellary.
5 A Congress fliall be cuablifhed.. tc
which their Imperial'and Prufiian Majeft'es
as well as their refpeflive Allies, will sent
Miniders forthe purpose ofcnquiring iiu<
the nature and extent of thqfe prerogative
belonging by ancient right to the Crotfn o
France, and whicj) it is found neteffary t(
reltore, for the fake of re-edablifliing tie
digtiitV of that Crown. If nnyinformatioi
fliould be communicated to'the Congrtb;
which the high contracting, parties, or an;
of their allies, lliall appear to have fui!ere<
ii:';ury or iiitreHchment, with respect t<
their just authority in the domains in tin
present polleffion, the discussion of the Con
grefs fliall be heWl iinal and conclulive bj
ail parties, and they-will use the fame forei
mentioned in the preceding article, or a lefl
er or greater one as occaiion may require
but always in the fame proportion, for tin
purpose of reitoiing to the injured party(i
milder measures l'a:l) his due authority, a
well for maintaining, in all cases whatever
the sovereign dignity from v.olation, insult
and incroathment.
A FARM FOR SALE.
C7-J If fold cheep for rofh, a 7 . rm Jitvatcd on tl
J- Bunk s, a< dor the n'-.rtb fide of th river Rari
inn in theJlate of 10 -'J ' r fty ; eight mi.'et fnm tl
city ef Ncnc-Brunjivic, and cnefrrrr the toicn 0
Jintmd Drook t eontaitiii jr 1 c;,[ aires, and 40 ocn
shout a mile liijiuni a] portioned to it for woodland
•n this I'/lrtn hus lately bten cr,£l.<l a neat tint
convenient honfe 28 by 34 Jett rent>y Jinijbtei
built on a cellar the d.nunjioni oj ti : llouJe t tvitl
0 kitchen forming a lumg 24 ly iS feet completed .
50 acres of it bjirg mtadczv renders 1 lit place tru
Jv malt/able ; the Lea-rly airy and plcajiint Jitua'i >
makes it an agreeable jut jor a gentleman : r'l <
meadow and fertility of the foil, an objefl fr th
farmer, its being Jo 1 rt.undid bv tie moji lucaltby
and opvlctit fartnon in the Jlate, it very ehgibr
Jland f>r ajlore. 7l e ride to and from Jlrutjwii
on either fide of the river, is delightful : for tb t
price appiy to the editor of the National Gazette.
6w 1 aw #
"** For fuLc. al this Office., Sermont by
the Rev'd Dr. IVilliam Linn, of N. Yorh_
1-2,
P 111 LADELP II IA.
May 31, 1792.
According to accounts from t!io weftcrh
< ountry (fia. North- Carolina) the hostile
Indian; seem more difpoled, than at any
' onntvp. riod. towards|v te •. \ treaty is
to lie hold at NafhvUlr with the ShSwanefe
and Chickafaw tribes ol Indians on the firll
of [line.
Died, ori Thursday the 17th inft. at New
rown, Sll (Icx county. N. Jerfev, in the 38th
year ps bis age, Major R iciIAUD Lt.gyd, of
the late American army, and member of the
Cincinnati ol laid (late. .
Ex'ratt of a ill r from Germantoum, May 29
"An Kxcife officer in this place, forne
ftort time since, put over his door a lign,
notifying that, there was rHK OFFICE of
Inspection. A number of citizens took
the liberty however, next day, to pull down
the Infpeeior's fin. —Three or four days
afterwards, the four quarters of a carrion
were hung up in the place of the board
tit :t contained the notiftfcfition".
E traCl of a letter from Cape Francois, cf the gtA
of May.
" Altho' we have nothing to fear, this place
being fortified in filch a manner that there i'
not tlie least probability of an attack, the
whole country is infef cd with had in'enti
oned people, and the Negroes on deftroyirg
what is left. Lately they attacked, to the
number ofSoOo, a poll: near Fort Panphin,
where they were faced by a body of 3H re
gnlar troops, a body of 200 niubtoc, and
some Volunteers who after an obftinnte bat
tie. made them retreat with great loss
On the field of battle were found some
white men and three guns.
" We heat' lately from France the ngtcc
ible new , tint the Vice-Count of Mailly
•s eir'. arked wsth 10.000 troops, and failed
the 25th of March : so that we may expt?fl
them every day ; we are indeed in great
want of them, and in hopes that at their ar
rival peace will be restored here. It is only
to be pitied that this afliflnnce comes font'
months too late, as much valuable property
might have been Paved.
" Business dull, flour (■, to 6 1-2 dollars."
The people of the United States are in
pofl'effion of a government of their own
choice; and had its principles been at
tended so, every man would have reaped
and enjoyed the fruits of his labour, with
out moleftatiofl. Were this the cafe, i:
would be d indeed to rail agninO
government. Hut it become; every friend
to his country, boldlv to come forward,
and cxpref his sentiments whenever he
fees the constitution infringed ; and that
laws have been p'(Ted, that W'll tend to
1 the injury of the great JTiaf of the people,
to promote the intercft of the few ; or
that taxes have been imposed. whose ope
ration will be partial, and will bear hard on
the poorer tlafs of It i not only a
few " authors of that con
demn the funding fyftt m and the excise
■ law, but a majority of tf>e people of the
union, who feel as great a delire for the
prosperity, dignity and freedom of the
United States, as the wrmeft advocates
of those jrieafures. The freedom of Ame
rica, so long as the conftitntion is ftrifHy
attended to, reft ; secure : Liberty was the
reward of our facrifices during a long and
bloody war : The establishment o'' a free
government completed the revolution, by
the voice of the people, who are bound
to support it, and the promotion of whose
infereft ought to be its (ble view ; but when
this is not the cafe, it is incontinent with
the character of Americans to be silent :
. All oppolition to the will of the rulers is
not yet annihilated; but every man is free
to declare his opinion on any occasion
whatever ; and it is to be Hoped, will do it
notwithftanxlirg he tmybe accused byfouie
interested pcrfons of tiling every itlfldiot)'
attempt to blast the profpefls <>' his conn
try. [Daily Adv.]
From a view of the preftnt condition of
royalty in Furope (fiys a correspondent)
who would be a king ? — Certain it is, that
. for a few years pad more attacks have been
made upon persons of royal description
than for a whole ccntnry before. -Age,
idiotifm, and female imbecility have alike
felt a preternatural impulse to defiroy
them. Rnfty cafe-knives, air-guns, blud
geons, and brick-bats, are constantly cm
ployed against them with so much invete
racy, that the poor crown-holders have
aimofl as pitiful a life of it as cocks were
wont to lead 011 Shrove Tuefday---Super
added to all this is the deplorable misfor
tune of royal which is become al
most as common as the hydrophobia.
A writer in the South-Carolina State
Ca/.Ettf. ( f the 3d. inft. speaking of the
free animadversions publilhed in some of
the Philadelphia 011 the; pro
ceedings oi'Congrefs dnring the late fc(Hou,
takes occasion to vociferate in the follow
ing manner: " Congref- '< wisdom, as a
legislative body, is attacked, ferocioufly
attacked '.---as fiercely as the ttwft inimical
Tiber, oflndiaai vonui attack tlicittj lh«
feat of government w< fixed on the fron
tier l-.-Wfll such an attack he left taipvnifh
'd ? Will no method be adopted to prevent
Inch attacks "for the future ?— If To, yor
civilized Americans and f.ivage Ind ...i
---may go—go, and herd it together. !! )"
A Virginia paper ol' the 24th ind. hasthe
following ft range paragraph.---" On the
night of the lath of April, seven ho'rf .
Were taken by tne Indians from the vici
nity of Tilton's Station, below the mouth
of Short Creek, and on the 16th ultimo
attacked some men and boys that were
Q;oing to mill, and killed one man, and
took one prisoner."
This news, on my word, is the word we
have heard.
New allies are join'd with the Indians, 'tis
fear'd—
" Seven Horses, aflemblcd in battle array,
' Attacked mm and boys in the open high way:
11 One wretch they ttohprfener, another they kill'd'
And drove all the reit, like poltroons, from
the lield.
Among liiany other inflances that might
-eadily be produced to prove that a spi
rit ps genuine repv.blicanifm is silently per
vrding ; 11} mope, th; t of the fuccefl'or to
Leopold tile 2d. is not unworthy of atten
tion. Immediaiely after his investment
with regal powers, lie ordered the public
ronfor of the press 'to b: particularly care
ful that no panegyric: fhou'd be published
on h's clvi.'.n tcr: it beiri'i his opinion, that
time alone ought to clciCe whither he Jh lildbe prai
i:d or reprobated". The ceremony of his
1 oronation was also to be conciufled. free
10111 that splendid, noisy ponipofitv which
had always been considered before as in
it'parabl e from such occasions.
■ww.iW.HMllltfWWrWitlHiw 1
[From Painf.'s RIGHTS or MAN.]
OFF CM I. COMPENSATION.
AS to the offices of which any civil go
vernment may be composed, it matters but
little by what names they are described. In
flie routine of bufinef whether a man be
(tiled a prefidcnt, a king, an emperor, a
lenator, or any thing el lie, it is impoflibie
that any service he can perform, can merit
from a nation more than ten thousand
pounds a year ; and as no man fl.ouid be
paid beyond his services, so every man of a
proper heart will not accept more. Public
money ought to be touched with the molt
scrupulous consciousness of honor.' It is
■lot the produce ps riches only, but of the
hard earnings of labour and poverty. It is
drawn even from the bitterneO of want and
misery. "Not a bept ar pafl'es or perishes
11 the streetS, whose mite is not in that.
niaf>. —Were it poflibV that the ( ongrefi
of Anicrica. could b;' so 101 l to their duty,
ind to the intcrelts of their conltituents, as
10 offer General Walhington, as President
of Anicrica, a million a year, he would
not, and he could not accept it, Hisfenfe
of honor is of another kind. It has colt
1 ngland aim oft ftventy millions sterling to
maintain a family imported from abroad,
of \ery inferior rapacitv tothoufands in
the nation ; and scarcely a year has palled
that has not produced follie new mercenary
pplicaVion. liven the physicians' bills have
been Cent to tlie public to he paid '. No
wonder that jails are crowded, and taxes,
and poor ratesincreafed. Under such sys
tems, nothing is to be looked for but what
has already happened and as to reforma
tion, whern ver it comes, it mult be from
the nation, and not from the government.
On TAXATION.
WHF.N - V' R nixes are proposed, the
country is nmufed by the plauiible language
nf taxing luxuries. One thing is called a
luxury at one time, and something ell'e at
another ; but the real luxury does not
conlift iu the article, but in the means of
procuring it, and this is always kept out
of fight.—l know not why any plant or
herb of the field fliould be a greater luxury
in one country than another, but an over
grown eflate in either is a luxury at all
times, and as such is the proper object of
taxation.. It is, therefore, right to take
tliofe kind tax-making gentlemen upon
their own word, and argue 011 the princi
ple themselves have laid down, that of tax
ing luxuries. If they, or their champion,
Vlr. Burke, who, I fear, is growing out of
date like the man in armour, can prove
T hat an eftatc of twenty, thirty, or forty
thousand pounds a year is not a luxury, I
will give up the argument. Admitting that
any annual sum, fay for instance, one ijw
laud pounds is nectflary orfufficient Wfwe
support of a family, confequ#ntly the fe
coud thousand is of the nature of a luxury,
the third ftillmorefo, and by proceeding
on, we shall at last arrive at a sum that
may, not improperly, be called a prohibit
■ ble luxury. It would be impolitic to set
bounds to property acquired t>y industry,
arid therefore it is. right to place the pro
hibition beyond the probable acquilition to
which induftrv can extend ; but there
ought to be a limit to property, or the ac
cumulation of it by bec)ucit. Itfhouldpafs
'n some other line. The richest in every
nation have poor relations, and tliofe often
very near in cphfanguinity.
CHROXOMCy or FACTS.
[C'ircroio ( ?y, altht>u;,h a fciencc at prcfcllt
litt!? llutlltvl, i'i. ijcverthelel's, not without
its life • By Chronology we are taught
how to afK\ a proper date to all historical
events, without which knowledge history
itCelf is 1 me and defe&ive,' and produ&ive
of little fatfcfitfMorf to tlie fhident. For
'.'.ant of due and faithful npplicsit on to
this.ev.rellent fciencc, it is. that 1 urope.m
and Aliatic account of distant even'' <1 >so
Widely disagree in point < f date, J 1 not to
je reconciled by any ingenuity or earning
:if the prefest rge.—To prevent >\uicrican
•hronoiogy from fufl't ring in li' f manner,
I have bestir t6 keep a regular lift of Ame
■ican Chronological Occurrences of which, pru
de reader, be pleased to take the following
pecimcn :]
17-5 —176,1. Liberty cftabllflicd in Amc
ica by the blood and property of her pa
triots.
1783— )"°Q. Patriots pet for their fer
f ttcc in the pound.
1789T-1-' o. Speculators receive without
ervices two f ounds on the (billing.— About
:his time the proftltutiop o< the prcfi. is gt
icmptecl with feme degree offliccefs.
1790. The millions of dc-llar:* flowing
into the hands of fpe«iilau>rs produce
glare of health, which is mifhyrciefced
for general prosperity.
'I he people asleep, and fpecti'.atoivt forg
ing the chains of monarchy and ariltocracy
for them.
1791. Thepeoplefeill asleep. Therein
of speculators. ——«—A JreSpft of fxty
ler cent. added to the capita;:, o. (peculators,
:iy means of the back, alidßther govern
mental douceurs. Tmks, burmlc-, tontine:',
lotterie: ni< iioi>q;l i<". usury, forgery, ly
ing, gambling, iwindl : ng. &c. Sec. abound
—Poverty in rljie country —Itixunj' in| tjy
capital:-—corruption aud ufurpatio.: in the
nat'onal councils. V
1797. Bubbles tfjirl.— The clian-v'rns
of public faith tunrnnt fencers—Plem
bersofC—ng—s detected and expoi'ed in
their speculation:. and combinations.
The waste of luxury turning the stream
of our wealth to foreign countries; and
making us tributaries for four millions a year
to the brokers of London and Anilterdam-
The people begin to awake. — Speculators
are alarmed---their reign totters.
1793 March. [A >i w /EkA.] The
people thoroughly awake. The national
councils purged of ilock-jobb'ng. monar
chy-jobbing. bankijobbing.and ariftocracy
jobb.rig—Li eflual mealures taken to fe
l nre public credit by paying off t!ic public
debt, and to support the energy of the go
vernment by regaining the confidence of
the people.
Indulkry, order, and virtue eftabliflied.
Kepublicanitm tlourilhes, and is again iu
falhion.
The people rejoice in their freedom, and
art determined to maintain if.
May 28.
TIUS DAY are pullifiedbj ANDREW BrowN^
And fold by the firin ihal hoah fellers in the city of
Philadelphia,
THE L A \V S OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
PASSED A T THE
T.ASr SESSIOM OF COAGRESS ■.
Collated with and corretfrd by the original rolls
in thr ofluc of the Secretary nf State.
Price One Quarter of a Dollar.
The a£ts of this I'cfiion, agreeably to the plan
of this edition of the laws of the Unitfd States,
will be c >nttcicred as th"fi'Jl Part of tlr frond
Volume } so that the aits of each Cungrel- (the
duration of which is limited by the c< nftitution
.0 the term of two years) will be compiilcd in
ane volume.
To the adts of this feflion will be annexed the
ratifications of the amendments to the Conftitu
non ; the confederation between the United
States and the Delaware nation of Indians ;
the treaty between the United States and the
Wjandot, Delaware, Ottawa, Chippewa, l*at
tawatima, and Sac Nations ; the treaty be
tween the United Si.ites and the Cherokee
Nation j and the armistice, declaring the cefluti
"n ofhfftilities between the United States and
Great-Eritaifl : These wirh those in the fnft vo
lume ot the laws, are all theexifting treaties.
A copious index will accompany the second
volume—when completed, at the end of tile next
leflion of Congress.
11 As it is dcfirahle that cop'es of the lawi
fliould he so multiplied throughout the States,
and in (uch cheap forms, as that every citizen of
,he United States may be able to procure them,*
it Hal b' en thought advifeable, in this edition,
to omit the fignaturti of thcFrefident ot'the Uni
ted State', the Prelident of the Senate, and the
' p.'>leer nf the H«ufe of Representatives. Thei*
lignatures wonld have increased the size of the
volume, and consequently have rendered it nv>re
rxpenfive, without adding to its ufefulnefs or au
thenticity, inasmuch as the Secretary ot Stele's
rertifict'e is to be prefixed to th" volume.
This edition of the laiut of the Vnitd State* is
ilfo to be fold by MeJJrs• 'Thomas [urtft Andreros,
Hcflon ; John C»rt,r. Ffcj. Providence, Rhode.
tjd ; MtJ/'f. Jiudfcn and C'.adicin Hartf-.rd,
Mr. V !': ra\ Crecn'aaf t NenvYcrk ; / ' !]r: God'
.li d ScAngel/, Jia/tin.nre j /Jugi/lline Danjis, FJ] :
Rielnrond, and Mr. ll'. P. Yvung, Charhjlon, .9.
?.arcliha»
t& Tlc Printers tf Nrws-fnf ers in the United
Statti, are to irfert tl-is advertiftmenc.Tac VILLAGE MERCHANT.
(Continued front No. 6o 4 J
THP.OUGH woods obscure ana Jul! perplex
ing way s
!i! y-r and a. ae lie urg'd the clumsy wheel j
N ■/ ttoj-ping fliort, to J.-t his horses graze,
treating them with llraw and Indian mea! :
At length a lofty steeple caught his eye,
" Higher (thought he) than ever kite did fly -
" Hut so i: is, these churchmen are so proud
Ki They ever will be tip-toe with a cloud :
ki Hound on a f-..-b!ue cruise, they al ays rig
<( The longest fteeplc and the large :t v-'j."
Nofv fafe arrrv'o upon the pebbled way
"Where will-born steeds the rattling coaches trail,
Whuv fiiops on (hops are seen—and ladies gay
Walk, with their curtains Tome, and some, their
veil j
Where Tons of art their various labours (How,
And oneccrt\ t fjJj / and one cries, muffins, bo !
Amaz'd alike, the merchant and his pair
Oi scare-crow Heeds, did nothing else but dare 5
So new w.vj all thefcene, that, fmif with awe,
They grinned, anj gaz'd, and gap'd at all they
saw,
And often (topp'd, to a fie at every door,
" Sirs, can ycu t:l us whete'i the cbeapcjl Jlore f
" Tnifiii.a: ftoreJ (a fly retailer said)
ja; I.:ian chea, , guidfaith, I have to fell :
:i. -are i'.-.n; cmpui 0 cloths that never fade :
No otr.cr (hoc . ; icrve you half so well.
' Wa ring fo;::e money,'now, to pay my rent,
I'll fill them at a lof-- of ituper cc::t.—
" H., 1 r. rlLhere, —ariH muslins—what you
<l Bandanas, baf:pull-cats,—lndia teas
il 1m rov'd by i girown very old,
" given depend—no:fold! ,,
L r d by the bait the wilejtrad'jr laid,
i)is steeds their mess ofpraw and meal,
T ven, gazing round the Ihqp, this, cautious, said.
" We,!, it you fell so cheap, I think we'll deal.
<{ , ray renumber, 'tis S s i come,
r home '
" i all */ ty pyWdct l'm^Pih—and that in gold,
<f »ugVs© make a trading man look bJld)
" Unrig your (helves, and let me take a peep j
" 'Tis odds 1 leave them bare—you fell so cheap/'
The city-merchant ftooa, with lengthened jaw?,
And (lar'd awhile —then made this short reply—
" You clear my shelves ! (he faia) —This fhelf of
gauze
" Is more than all your forty pounds can buy
" On yonder board, whole bui then Teems so small
41 That one man's pocket might contain it all,
*' JMore va ueiies, than you, and all your race
t( From Adam down, did purchase or poflefs."
Convinced, he turn'd him to another flreet
Where humbler (hop-men from the croud retreat:
7 . -ve, caught his e\e coarie callicoes and crape,
1 --•> and tobacco, ticlclenbergs, and tape,
Pitchers andpots—of value not so high
But he might fell, —and Forty-Pounds would
buy.
[To be continued]
May 26.
AUTHENTIC.
* SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft Sflion, begun and held at the city of
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania,
on Monday the twenty-fourth of O&ober, one
thousand ieven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT for the relief cf perfor.s Irrprifntd for
Debt.
T)E it enabled by the Senate and House of Rtprc
jentatives of the United States of America in
Congress afjembled, That persons imprisoned on
executions ifTuing from any court of the United
States for risfaction of judgments in any civil
actions (hall be entitled to like privileges or tin
yards or limits of the refpedlivfe goals as persons
confined in such goals for debt on judgments ren
dered in the courtsof the several Gates are enti
tled to, and under the like regulations and re
ftri&ions.
And be it further cnaßcd, That person im
prisoned .as aforefa'd, may have the oath or af
firm aiion herein after exprt (Ted administered to him
by any judge of theUnitedStates, or of the general
or supreme court of law of the (late in which the
debtor is imprisoned, the creditor his agent 01
attorney, if either live within one hundred miles
of the place of imprisonment, or within the dis
trict in which the judgment was rendered having
had at lead thirty days previous notice, by a
citation lerved on him, illued by any such judge,
: > appear at the time therein mentioned, at the
said goal, if he fee fit, to (hew cause why the
said oath cr affirmation should not be so administ
ered j at which time and place, if no fuflicien'
cause in the opinion of the judge, L e (hewn or
doth from examination appear to the contrary,
he may at the request of the debtor, proceed to
admin; > r to him the following oath or affirma
tion, as the cafe may b- 1 , viz. f< Vou
solemnly f.vear(cr afnrm) that you have nntcftate
real or pcrfonal, nor is any to yoiif know.ej-;
holden in trust for 30 ) to the amount or valuv
of twenty dollars, nor fi.i..>-ii'nt to pay t,'.?- b
for which you are imprisoned. '* Which orh or
affirmation being adminillerid, the jud-e shall
certify the fame under hi 3 hand, to the. piifori ,
keeper, and shall fix a rejtfonable allowance for
the debtoi' . fnpport, not exceeding one doilar p..
week ; an 1 if the creditor (hail thereafter ah
.veek fail to furniih the debtor with such week!
iunjgjrtj 6y paying or advancing the money r<.
iim, or to tlie prlfon-kej-pcr, !' r his i f.-, tiir t
lebier fluil L- -««i harged !.is imprifortmen; I
on ft ;ih . ju rr.en'r, an J fh; 1\ n-ot he 1i- b!e to
b2 imiii.i i;d tor the faiJ d- - L>: $ but the
Hrall remain good ani fufikrent in low,
ana may be fatisfi'ed out ot any filiate which may
:he.n*or at any time afterwards belong to the :
debtor;
Atrd be It furtlev enaEled, That if any person
(hail falfely take the oath or affirmation aforefaid,
iuch'perlbn fliall be deemed guilty of perjury,
and CuffiSt the pains and penalries in that cafe
provided.
And be it further cna£led t '\'\\it this ast flial!
continue and be in force, for tiie space of one
year from the pailing thereof, and from thencc
to the end ot the next fefiion of Congress, and no
lon^ci.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of the
Houjc of Representatives.
Richard Henry Lee, President
pro tempore of the Senate.
Approved, May fifth, 1792.
G. WASHIN G T O N,
President oj the United States.
The TKAVELLiNC CAT.
"The fofluwihg account ( fays a Maryland
Correspondent) I received from a person oi the
ftridtelt veracity, and tho' it appears f mewhat
extraordinary, it may be depended on as a t'a<3."
Late in the \ ear 1791 a cat was taken on board
a vessel in tiie river Potomack, and brought round
through'Ghefapeak bay in;o'th- Patuxent, a cir
cuitous distance of more than fifty mile?. Upon
being landed file was conveyed co a hotjffi three
or four miles distant from tlie last mentioned rjvei
in Calvert County, where }he continue! fcveral
weeks. While here, the cat incurred her own
er's oifpleafure by regaling hcrfelf with fomechoice
provisions that had been let apart for his own use,
in conl'ecjuence of which ihe was fentenccd to re
ceive a whipping, which was accordingly execu
ted. Not reliihing this affront, (he forfpok the
imuf', and returned to the place from which
she had been originally taken, a distance of be
tween twenty and thirty miles in a direct line,
in the prosecution of which jaunt the ftomachful
animal mult have pafl'ed the Patuxent river, at
lead two miles wide, but then frozen over j it
being in February when the fait occurred.
The manner in which the animal was convey
ed, and the distance of the place it left from that
to which it returned, evinces the exigence of a
faculty in the brute creation, which, tho* rarely
exercised by them,cannot be controverted or de
nied. I cannot persuade myfe fit can be wholh
attributed to inftindh Man endowed with supe
rior faculties in other refpe&s, mull, in this,
yield to the superiority of irrational animals, as
similar fads have occurred with regard to other
tribes of that part of nature's* animated creation
we take upon ourselves to call brutal.
Calverc County, Maryland, May 16—1792.
Jufl imported in the Jhip Molly, Captain Pitt,
Jrom Lijbcn —
A few Pipes and Quarter Casks of
LISBON WINE,
Far fitpcrior in quality to what is generally impor
ted ; anda few lales of the very befl CORKS,
To be Sold by
GEORGE MEADE,
Who has also for/ale, Choice three and five years old
Bill of Exchange Madeira Wine,
By the Pip., or Quarter Cash,
LONDON MARKET MADEIRA &INE
five years old by the pipe, or quait r Cask,
Choice old Sherry WINE by the quartercafk
MeTs BEEF o. a superior quality and filch asis
fit for an Kail India Voyage put up in
this city-
Choice firft quality BEEF do.
Do Second do.
BOSTON BEEF equal to any from that
country.
Burlington Pork of the fir ft quality,
and one hundred and fourteen hhds of
flax s eed,&c.&c.
May 16 2a. w. lm.
THIS DAT ARE PUBLISHED,
[111 Oclavo —Price 2fg,
THE
LAW S of the United States,
Pa{Ted at the
Fir ft Seflion of the Second Congress.
FUBLISIIED LY AUTHORITY.
To which are added the Ratifications of the
Amendments to the Constitution, by the fever:'.'
ratifying States; the Arniiflicc between ihe Uni
ted States and Great-Britain-; and the Tre ity of
Peace and Friendship with the-Cherokees, which,
A ith those in the other o£hvo volume completes
ill the exifling treaties.
PhiU/tlqlnia, printedby GUILDS OSWAINE,
Priw%i oj the I.aws of the United States, and
fold by than, at their office, No. 209, Market-
St/r.t ; also by the principal 800 kje tiers-in the
city.
The Laws are sewed in blue paper, and
ir;: intended to be bound up wiih those of the
.t lei'.on, so as to make one volume, com
r ifing all the Laws pafl'ed the Second Con
it Iwhen a complete Index will be added for
:oth fefiions.
T he LA W S of the
Three Scllionsof the First Congress
Viih a complete Index, 111 one volume o6tavo, j
i«".y be 1) las above.
Philacl- Iphia, May 17th, i"92.
B O O K S,
Pan: d ar.itfold by
MATH 'E W CAREY,
No. ii 8, Mametibtrcet, P ■
1. Ajrnericai? Muleum, ft ■>.: its « >> ..cnccw.:
n January 1787, to December 179', a- tet: vols.
Price, ntatly bound ami lettered," J-Jlais.
'This work, which is njfitu 'conducted on an /'•:
roved plan, containing the left pieces pubTjhcs J -■
and againli the proceedings cf gcvfrr.n.a.t, will bt
found to contain at leajl as great a variety of pu! -
tic at, agricultural, andmijcellaneous tffays, a: jr.)
ever published in America. Perhaps mno one ivor*
are Jo many valuable documents rejpecl.ng the -
ry of this country, coll tiled together. His c\iel
Icncy the Pre/idem of the United States, has. de
clared of it f that i( a more ufeful literary plai
rias never been undertaken in America, nor on<
more deserving of public encouragement." Yi,
(übfeription is two dollars and a half per annum
Gentlemen in the country who wish to be fuppliei
with this work, are requeued to give commijjicn t
friends in the city to JubJcribe jor and receive it.
2. Ladies' Pocket Library -—containing : —MiJ
More's EJJ'ays \ Gregory's Legacy ; Lady Pen
nir.gtons advice j Marchionejs of Lambert's ad
vice j 'Swift's letter to a newly married ady
Mrs. Chapcne on command of temper } A lore's fa
bles for the ladies Price 6/6.
3. Smith's History of New-York. f"cm its fin
fettlen::nt to the year 1732". To which is annexed
a dejeription of the country, with a Jhort acconn
of the inhabitants, their religious and political jiatf
and the constitution of the courts of jujtice—Pric
a dollar and a quarter.
4. Llements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, 1.1.d. pwfefjor of moralphi'ojcphy and logi
in the Marijchal College, Aberdeen—Price thre
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Critual Re
viewers ( vol. 69. p. bzZ ) Jay : " IVe have fee,
nothing on these fubjecls more plain, more perfpicu
ous, or more genera ly ufeful
5. Beauties of Poetry, Britijh and American
containing felefl productions of the mojt eminent Bri
tif? and American poet s. e P ricefur fifths of a dol
6. Blair's Sermons, containing the whole of th
three volumes of the British edition, in two. Pric
two dollars.
7. Necker's Trcatife on the importance nf reli
gious opinioni. Pr 'u. four ffths cf a dollar.
8. Examination of the cbjervations of LordShef
field's on American Commerce. Price, on very fin
paper,five eighths cf a dollar.
9. The Confiitutions of the fever a! United States
wtth the federal Conjiitution, tSc. Price fv
eighths of a dollar.
10 M'Fingal, an ' epic poem, a new edition ii
I 2mo. Price three eighths of a dollar.
ir. American Jett Book, in two parts, with
two very neat engravings» Price bound, thrc
fifths of a dollar.
12. Garden of the Soul, by Bishop Chalcnor
Price, bound plain, ha f a dollar, in calf and Ictt
red, three quartos of a d'/llat, plain 1 idol,
13. The Douay Tranjlaticn *f toe vulgate Bi
ole, in quarto. Priec, tugantly bound and lettered
sojz- -plain, fix dollars'
Said Car. v has for sale, a large ajjerintent 0,
books, European as well as American edition:
which he Will dispose of on the mojt reaj nable terms
Country gentlemen, who favor him with commands
may depend upon bang Jupplied in the mcji Jatisfac
tory manner. A Hera, allowance to J./ch as pur
chaje quantities for public libraries, or to Jell again
P R ° PJp S A L s
For Printing, by Subfeription,
• h
PUBLIC REPORTS
executive departments
OF THE
Government of tie United States
CONGRESS,
Commencing with the present Government, and end
ing with the close of the Sfjjion of May 1792.
THIS work is intended to be printed in on<
volume oclavo, estimated to contain between fiv<
and fix hundred pages, and will be delivered t(
fubferibers in boards at One Dollar and a half.
A complete collection of the Repoits into ;
convenient and portable volume has been
gerted to the publifliers by several Members o
Congress and other gentlemen, and they are now
determined to proceed on with the work, pi o\ i
ded a competent number of fubferibers appeal
to patronize tj:e undertaking.
SUbscriptions sre received by CHILDS anc
SWAINi' , the publishers, No. 2:9, Maikct-
Ilieet, Philadelphi a and by the principal Book-
Iclleis in the United States.
May 24.
CHESTER TOWN if BALTIMORE
5 T A G E S.
THE Eaftern-Sh re Stage* toy way of Chef
tertown to Baltimore, ftar;.s regular!) from
/ imes Thomson's, Indian Queen, Fourth-itrecf,
Philadelphia, every Monday, Wtdncfdny anc?
Erida.y, morning, precifcly at 7 o'clock, and
>n the fame mornings at 4 o'clock, fr m Mr.
- r rant"sin Baltimore. The cultivation of the
country, and gooontfs of. the roads,
A 'i f h the attention that shall be pa:.! by the pro
'necors, will, it is hoped,' be a fuffui nt induce
«ej,t for a preference K : ; g given to this route.
J AMES FHOMPSO.N,
ROBERT HOD'GSON,
N. E. Light Waggons for hire by Jima
rhompf.in, at th? Indian Queen.
Afno Copies of the Report of a Cqm
ruttee of Congr-js on the 1 caujs's of the faiiur.
<f the n eftern Expedition s under Major-
General St. Clair, for sale at the Office No.
og, Market-Street.
T O T Ir. PUBLIC.
' (p'H Stt! K r:, r bits !in coi*?:»tyfj'. '• J >» **
ic'k. L i f. refcut luftncjs—a. . 1 -rv ,::s.on
Hjhd a ret ierabit quantity of fvperf, [ccfir-d and
iiajtu. rlcn - , tc. tb'er -with a variety ' other arti
cles in in ■ . ,j; ippje* toJe ' tl><:n at the
rcduced prices- V 1 Z t
J"ji Si/fer lite navy biui 34J,
iMtto. f ditto-.. ScaJct 3
cohuri J. {•erjine 32 s.
ElajiiC flripes O' -
L»ndon buff and white cafiimers 15/0.
J i'i, , coloured , . 1 ss.
3" rij'/lre do. do, 13[/O.
Si. ijjtd telle nets I4 J *
/: ci 31.
httyped Nankeens 3^4*
./? variety of.ll afccatjbtjpes proportionally Liu,
1 . >y oa Hons and 'Hir/a ,ng.s c...
l.or.diu bfjl jiik I f:, frcrn 22/6 to 245.
c i it abovt g. ds Lave been tnojliy imported from
one t>'the ffjl Mercantile bouses in London, and'
are of an equal quality to any imported into Ameri
ca \ ~' cy ivjll be fold per piece or Jmaller quantity
as may beji J'uit tbe purtbajers j by tb' pub ii:s tn'Ji
%umble Jir*vant y 'JOHN SHEPHERD.
No. 3 South Fourtb-Jlrect'
Any person disposed to purchase the whole
of the above (lock, may alio have on reasonable
terms his present dwelling house, together with
the store, a rftoie eligible lituation for bulincls in
the tailor's line is not to be found in this city.
The advantage <.f this business being so well eila
bliihed by the pro; lietor v.ill be very gieat, ai»<l
from well known fudis, reeds no comment
A lease of fix yeais may be had of the house.
May 14, laiv. tf.
FOR BRIS TO L,
jk,? rHE SHI,>
Birmingham Packet,
LEESON SIMMONS, Matter ;
4 reniJikab'e fafl sailer, her cargo is all readv ;
nevertheless to accommodate thole who may be
dilpoled to put freight on board, it will be taken
1 . She will fail in a few days. The owners
are determined that the ship shall leave Biiftol
with the fiift fall {hips.
For freight or paflag apply to the Captain oa
board ly.ng at Walnut street Wharf, or
GEORGE MEADE.
Those who have goods on hoard are earneft'y
requeued to enter them, take out their permits
and give the necessary dire. ions to their porter
to attend the ship. May 16. 2aw
Wajfiington, in the Territory of Columbia.
A PREMIUM
OF 500 dollars, or a medal of that value,
at the option of the party, will be giv
en by the Commiffioaers of the Federal
Buildings to the person who, .before the
fifteenthday of July next, liiall produce to
tuem the molt approved plan, if adopted bv
them, for a Prelident's house to be erected
1:1 this city. The lite of the building, if
tlie artiit will attend to it, will of course
influence the aspect and outline of his plan,
and it's destination will point out to him
the number, size, a.id distribution of the
apartments. It v. ill be a recommendation
of any plan, if the central part of it may be
detached and erecfed for the present, with,
the appearance of a complete whole, and
be capable of adpi tting the additional parts,
in future, if they shall be wanting. Draw
ings will be expected of the ground plats,
elevation.-, of each front, a::d feclions
through the building in such direOions as
may be necefiiiry to explain the internal
ftrufture ; and an elt imate of the cubic feet
of brickwork, compoling the wholemafsof
the walls. The Commissioners.
March 14.
Wajlnngtcn, in the Terr itory of Columbia.
A p R E M 1 U M
OF a lot in this City to be defitrnated by
impartial judges and 500 dollars ; or :i
medal of that value, at the option of the
party, will be given by the Commiflionsr*
of the Federal Buildings, to the person,
who, before the fifteenth day of July /795,
'hail produce to them the moit approved
plan, if adopted by them, for a Capitol to
be ere. Ed in this city, and 250 dollars or
a medal for.the plan deemed next in merit
to rhe one they lhall adopt. The building
to be of brick, and to contain the following
apartmeacs, to wit. „
A conference room 7 Sl:fficient , to 1£ i '
A room for the lie- ! accommodate o 3
prefentatives 3co persons «
each. . g >
\ I .bby or antichamber to the latter, f ?~Z
A Senate room of i2co ftjuare feet v —
area. g
An antichamber or lobby to the last. j
12 rooms of 600 fqtfare feet area, each, for
cornnf.tee rooms and clerks offices, to be
of half the elevation of the former. Draw-I
ings will be expected of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and feirlioiis
through the building in such direftjpns as
may be necellary to explain the internal
ftru&ure, and an eifimaw of the cubic feet
of brie :\vorkcompolingthe wholemafsof
the \vali-. The Com?,iissioners.
March 14.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS AND S\VAI NE,
AT THEIR OFFICE , jc 0. 1 CI), HIGH* UIIT
NEAR FIFTK-STREET,
**1 I LADE LP KI A-