Vol. I.
AUTHENTIC.
(Never before printed.)
COPIES of the LAWS
Passed in the
TERRITORY of the UNITED STATES,
North-'.veil »f the River O* :o,
By the Governor and Justices thereof
Agreeably to the Ordinance of Cougrefs of Jul;
15, 1717, and made out from the Original Re
cords in the Olficc of the Secretary for the fait
Territory.
A LAW reflecting Crimes and punijk
ments. Pajfed September, 6th, 1788.
VI.
(Continued. J
Riots and Unlawhjl Assemblies
IF three or more petfons shall affem
Me together, with intention to do an;
unlawful ast, with force and violeno
again ft the person or property of ano
ther, or to do any other unlawful ast
aginft the peace and to the terror of th<
people; or being lawfully aJTembled
shall agree with each other to do an;
unlawful ast as aforefaid,and shall mak<
any movement or preparation therefor
the persons so offending, and upon con
vift:on thereof shall pay as a fine, each, t<
this territory the sum of iixtcen dollars
and find surety for their good behavio
refpeftively for the space of fix months
and stand committed till sentence bi
performed.
Whenever three or more persons fhal
be assembled together as aforefaid, an<
proceeding to commit any of theoffen
ces aforefaid, it shall be the duty of al
judges, justices of the peace, and fne
riffs, and all ministerial officers, im
mediately upon attual view, or as foor
as may be upon information, to maki
proclamation in the.hearing of such of
silence can be abtairfd, com
manding them in the name of the Uni
ted States, to disperse and depart t(
their several homes, or lawful employ
ments ; and if upon such proclamation
or when silence cannot be obtained
■such persons so assembled shall not dif
perse and depart as aforefaid, it fhal
then be the duty of fuchjudges, justice
of the peace and fheriffs, and other mi
nifterial officers, refpedtively to cal
upon all persons near and of abilities
and throughout the country, if neceffa
ry, to be aiding andaflifting in difperf
ing and taking intocuftody all person
assembled.as aforefaid i And all milita
ry officers, and others, called upon a
aforefaid, are hsreby ordered and di
reftcd to render instant and full obedi
ence in this behalf upon the penalty o
ten dollars each, for every neglect o
refufal herein, and commitment in caf<
of non-payment. If any of the person
so unlawfully assembled shall be killed
maimed, or otherwise injured, in con
sequence of refilling the judges, o
others, in dispersing and apprehending
or in attempting to disperse and appre
hend them, the said judges, justices o
the peace and fheriffs, and other minis
terial officer', and others acting by theii
authority, or the authority of any o
them, shall be holden guiltless.
If any person or persons shall forci
bly obftruft any of the authority afore
said, or if any three or more person:
shall continue together after proclama
tion as aforefaid made, or attempted tt
be made, and prevented by such riot
ers, or in cafe of no proclamation, an\
three or more persons being affemblec
as aforefaid, shall commit any unlaw
ful ast as aforefaid, every offender up
cn conviction thereof, shall be fined ir
a sum not exceeding three hundred dol
lars, and be whipped not exceeding
thirty nine stripes, and find surety foi
good behavior for a time not more than
one year, at the discretion of the courl
before whom the conviction may be had,
And upon a second conviction, each
and every offender shall be whipped
and fined as aforefaid, and find surety
for good behavior and the peace for a
time not exceeding ten years, and may
be cottimitted to any gaol in the territo
ry till sentence be fully performed.
By PHILIP FRENEAU.
MONDAY, January 30, 1792.
PERJURY.
If any person lawfully called upon to
give evidence before any court re
cord, or other authority in this teAitory
qualified to administer oaths and solemn
declarations and affirmations, (hall wil
fully dcpofe, affirm, or declare any mat
ter to be fact knowing the fame to be
falfe, or shall in like manner deny ar
fatl knowing the fame to be true, < >
shall refufe to depose to, affirm or dc.-
clare such fact knowing the fame to I"
true, the person so offending shall U
deemed guilty of perjury, and upoi
convittion thereof, shall be fined in ;
sum not exceeding sixty dollars, or Li
whipped not exceeding thirty-nir.
stripes, and shall moreover be set in th<
pillory for a space of time not exceec
ing two hours, and be ever after inca
pable of giving testimony, being a jure:
and of fuitaining any office civil 01 ii.i
litary, in this territory.
And if any person or persons fha]
porrut tedly procure any other perfo;
to commit the crime of perjuiy, as L.
fore defined, he, she, or they, so offend
ing shall upon convi&ion thereof fuf
fer the fame punishments and dilabili
ties as iii the cafe of actual perjury.
LARCENY.
If any perfen or persons shall ftcal o
purloin from another person or persons
any money, goods; wares or merchan
dize, or any other perlonal property, o
thing whatever, he, she, or they, f<
offending, fliall be deemed guilty of lar
ceny, and upon conviction thereof
shall for the firft offence restore to th<
owner the thing stolen, and pay to hin
the value thereof, or two fold the valu<
(hereof, if the thing stolen be riot re
Sored, and shall be fined in a furri no
exceeding two fold the value of th<
thing or goods stolen or shall be whip
ped not exceeding thirty-one stripes
at the difcretionof the court. Upon .
second conviflion, restitution and pay
ment shall be made to the owner as a
forefaid—a fine shall be set arid paid t(
the territory not exceeding four fob
the value as aforefaid, and the offender
(hall he whipped not exceeding thirty
nine stripes, and in like manner upoi
svery succeeding conviction. And ii
cafe such convict shall not have proper
ty, real or perfoßal, wherewith to dif
charge and juftify the fcntence of th<
court, it shall be lawful for the fheriff
dv dire&ion of the court, to bind fuel
person to labor for a term not exceed
ing seven years, to any suitable perfoi
who will difchargc such sentence.
And if any perlon or persons shall re
ceive any goods, or other thing, as a
forefaid, knowing thi fame to be stolen
fie she, or they, so offending, shall b<
deemed principally guilty, and upor
convi&ion thereof, fliall be puniihec
accordingly.
And if any person or persons fhal
apree or compound, or take iatisfa£tior
for any stealing or goods stolen, luc!
person orperfons upon conviction there
of, shall forfeit twice the value of th(
fumsar thing agreed for or taken.—
But no person shall be debarred frorr
taking his goods again, provided h<
prosecute the thief: Provided alio, tha
nothing herein fliall be construed so a:
;o oblige a parent to prosecute a child
being an infant or in a state of minority,
FORGERY.
Whoever shall forge, deface, corrupt
or embezzle any charters, gifts, grants,
bonds, bills, conveyances, wills, teila
ments, or written contracts of any na
ture or kind, or shall deface or falftfy
any enrolment, registry, or record, or
matter or instrument recorded, or shall
counterfeit the seal or hand writing of
another with intent to defraud, eVcry
person so offending shall, upon convic
tion thereof, be fined in double the sum
he shall thereby have defrauded or at
tempted to defraud another, one-half
thereof to the party injured, or intended
to be injured, and shall rooreovtr fore
ver after be rendered incapable of giv
ing testimony, being a juror, or inflam
ing any office of trull. and be let in the
pillory not exceeding the space of three
hours. And all persons wilfully aiding
and affifling in the commission of these
crimes, or whb shall cause or procure
the fame, or any of them to be perpe
trated, shall be deemed principals.
USURPATION.
No person shall take upon himfelf, 01
excrcife or officiate in any office, oi
place of authority in this territory
without being lawfully authorizec
thereunto ; And if any any perlon fhal
presume so to do, he shall upon con
viftion thereof, be fined in a fun no
exceeding one hundred dollars.
ASSAULT and BATTERY.
If any person shall unlawfully affauli
orthifeatcn another in a menacing man
tier, or shall flrike or wound another
re shall, upon conviction thereof, bi
ined in a fu:n not exceeding one hun
ired dollars: And the court befor<
whom such conviction shall be had
may at their discretion, cause the offen
ier to enter into recognizance witl;
surety, for the peace and good beha
viourfor a time not exceeding one year
FRAUDULENT DEEDS, &c.
All bonds, bills, deeds of sale, gifts
irantsor other conveyances, orobliga
;ions whatever, made with intent U
deceive and defraud others, or to de
Feat creditors of their jufl debts or de
mands, shall be nu3l and void ; and th(
person or persons so offending shall, up
an conviction thereof, be fined in ;
urn not exceeding three hundred dol
irs, and pay double damages to th<
.arty or parties injured.
DISOBE b I r.NCK of CM I h DREN <S
SERVANTS.
If any children or servants shall, con
trary to the obedience due to their pa
rents or maflers, refill or refufe to obe)
their lawful commands, upon com
plaint thereof to a justice of the peace
it shall be lawful for such juflicc to fenc
him or them so offending to the gaol o:
bouse of corre£lion, there to remain un
lil he or they shall humble themfelve
to the said parents or maflers fatisfac
tion. And if any child or servant shall
contrary to his bounden duty* prefumt
:o assault or flrike his parent or mafler
tipon complaint and conviction thereo
jefore two or more juflices of the peace
he offender shall be whipped not ex
seeding ten (tripes.
DRUNKENNESS;
If any person shall be convicted o:
Irunkenncfs before one or more jufli
res of the peace, the person so convic
ted shall be fined for the firfl offenci
in the sum of five dimes, and for ever}
succeeding offence and upon convi£lioi
in the sum of one dollar ; and in eithe
:a'fe, upon the offender's neglecting o
refufing to pay the fine, he shall be fe
in the stocks for the space of one hou
—Provided, however, that complain
t>c made to the justice or juflites withir
:wo days next after the offence fhal
rave been committed.
IMPROPER and PROFANE LAN
GUAGE.
Whereas idle, vain and obfeene con
verfation, profane curling and swear
ing, and more especially the irreverent
ly mentioning, calling upon, or invo
king the sacred and Supreme Being b)
•my of the divine characters in whicl
he hAth graciously condescended to re
i-Cal his infinitely beneficeht purppfes
o mankind, are repugnant to every
noral sentiment, subversive of every
civil obligation, inconfiflent with the
arnaments of polished life, and abhor
rent to the principles of the mofl bene
volent religion—-It is expected there
fore, if crimes of this kind should cx
ifl, they will not find encouragement,
countenance or approbation in this ter
ritory.—lt is firiftly enjoined upon all
officers and miniflers of justice, upon
parents and others, heads of families,
Numb. 27.
and upon others of every description,
that they *bftain from pradtices so vile
and irrational : and that by example
and precept, to the utmoftof their pow
er, they prevent the necessity of adopt
ing and publishing laws with penalties
upon this head. And it is hereby de
clared, that government will consider
as unworthy its confidence all those
who may obstinately violate these in
junctions.
FIRST DAY of the WEEK.
Whereas mankind in every stage of
informed society have consecrated cer
tain portions of time to the particular
cultivation of the social virtues, and the
public adoration and worship of the
Common Parent of the universe : And
whereas a practice so rational in itfelf
ind conformable to the divine precepts
is greatly conducive to civilization as
well as morality and piety : And where
is for the advancement of suCh impor
:ant and interesting purposes, most of
he Christian world have set apart the
First day of the week as a day of reft
rom common labours and pursuits, it
s therefore enjoined that all servile
abor, works of necessity and charity
)nly excepted, be wholly abstained
r rom on fa id day.
Continuation (from No. 2of the Me
morial upon the bejl means of improving
the Commerce and. Manufactures oj tfu
United States.
Translated from the Author's original manil.
Icript.]
THE firft requisite in all countries
hat wish to establish extensive manu
"actures, is plenty of the raw material,
which ensures a lownefs of pt-icc, and
:onleq-c: >2y ruLvcfs to the eflablilh
nent. I heneceflity of procuring such
Materials in abundance begets an atten
ion to the moll proper methods of raif
ng the various articles which are the
übjects of manufactures, such as flax,
lemp, silk, &c, &c. the. exportation of
which, in their raw state, ought to be
prohibited by law, and the importa
tion rendered free of duty.
One great object in every manufac
uring country, is a careful attention to
he cultivating of those plants which
furnifh the several dyes for the fluffs
manufa&urcd; According to the va
lue of these, the value of the articles is
frequently increased in a double, if not
in a threefold degree.
As I feel myfelf warmly attached to
the eftablifhroent of manufa&ures of
sVerykindin America, I forefee that
a question on this fubjett will very
frequently occur—How long will it
take to establish all kinds of manufac
tures in a young country ?
Many will fay, it requires a century s
sthers suppose it will require two, and
all agree that a considerable length of
time is necelfary'to bring such establish
ments to any degree ef maturity. As
sertions, however, are not solid proofs,
and common opinion is by no means a
eft of truth, either phyhcal or moral.
To determine matters of this kind,
fcaufes riiuft be enquired into, and pof
[ibilities calculated. My opinion is,
that the manufacturing importance of
America is not at such a distance as ma
ay are willing to suppose. What will
lonfiderably advance it, however, arc
new modes of industry and the procu
ring of able workmen in every branch
from foreign parti. To effect these
wo points will require, no doubt, &
ong time, it being a matter of difficul
y to divert old modes of industry into
lew channels. Neither are artists of
real abilities to be easily drawn from
their own country, to seek a precarious
subsistence among strangers.
But to obviate this unwillingness, we
should imitate the conduct of the Czar t
Peter the firft, of Russia, Joseph the
second, emperor of the Romans, and
Henry the fourth of France, who fea
red no painsaor expence to procuretifts from foreign Countries, and after
they had procured them, paid them ge-
Jicroufly, and made it well worth their
while to remain in their several king
doms.—Should these plans be followed
here, I have no doubt that, in the state
of Connecticut, at least, manufactures
of every ufeful kind might be fully esta
blished within ten years.
Supposing it was asked, how long it
•would take for a designer or a dyer from
London or Paris completely to establish
and prosecute thole profeflions in Ame
rica ? It is evident, that little more
time would be necefTary, than that fpenl
on the palTage, and both might set u;
their bufinelfes immediately after theii
arrival with a good prospect of success
provided fufficient employ was fecurec
to them by alfociations, or other public
means—The fame observation hold:
good in regard to other workmen anc
artiftsof all kinds of ability.
PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Sketch of the Debate in the House of Representative
on Tuesday lajl, on the Rtprejcntation Bill.
THE House, in committee of the whole, ha'
ving before them the Report of the Sele£l Com
mittee on the apportionment of representation
together with the proposed amendment " thai
no greater ralio be reported than thirty thousand
inhabitants for one Representative," Mr. Gerry
rose to observe, that as the ratio of thirty thou
sand had already received a fanftion, the propos
ed amendment became neceftary for the fake ol
consistency, and to obviate the possibility of the
fele£l committee reporting a different ratio —
Mr. Livermore was for flriking out the claufc
refpe&ing the ratio of one to thirty thousand ;
and considered the non-concurrence of the Se
nate in the former Enumeration Bill as a fuffici
ent reason why the House should not eftablifl)
the principle in the amendment, U'llefs it were
difcovercd that the Senate should have changet
their fentimcnts on this head : neither could he
fee any reason for mentioning the ratio of thirty
thouland unless the House meant particularly tt
fix upon it : if a difculfion of the question was
intended, he wished it pievioufly to take place,
as the decision of the House would be a leading
principle to the committee in drafting the Bill,
and it would afterwards require a majority tc
make any alteration.
Several other observations being made, the
question was at length taken on flriking out the
amendment, which passed in the negative, aftei
which the committee having agreed to the reso
lution and amendment [S« cur lajl] rose and re
ported accordingly.
IN THE HOUSE,
Mr. Dayton moved to strike out the words
11 and making provision for a second enumerati
on, and for an apportionment of representative;
thereon, to compose the House of Reprefenta
lives, after the third day of March 1797;" — as
he saw noneceflity for burdening the people so
soon with the expence of a second enumeration.
Mr. Wiliiamfon observed, ihat although some
complaints were made of the fraftiona) parts nol
being represented, he never could conceive thai
the framers of the conllitution entertained ai
idea of a representation of the people diflinfci
from the states, but contemplated the representa
tion of the peopleof each (late,according to some
given ratio :—no ratio could be adopted, thai
would not leave fiattions ; and thole fraction:
would be greater in some states than in others
the ,slate which he represented would fuffer ir
that particular as much perhaps as any other (late
in the Union : but those states that'wiH fuffei
the moll in the firfl instance, will be the foonei
relieved, as the fraftiona! parts will probably
then be in their favour, provided Congress pro
ceed upon some general rule. In order to re
move all complaints o inequality on account ol
fractions, and to give those slates which have
large portions of people unreprefentcd, the fame
advantage hereafter that other states will now en
joy, he withed to fee a second enumeration take
pl,ice before the expiration of ten years.
Mr. Gerry remarked, that there would have
been no dispute about fractions, if the ratio hac
been fiift eftabliftied, and provision afterward"
made for carrying it into execution ; but when ii
vas once known how the principle would apply
and leave greater or lesser fraQions, gentlemei
then took the one or the other fide of thequef
tion, and widled to vary the ratio, as would bell
suit particular states this (he said) was tht
cause ot that difference of opinion which prevail
ed in the House and in the Senate : the evr
ought to be remedied, if polfible : and the onl)
remedy he knew, was the proposition under con
lideration ; —the principle would be thus efta
bliflied at a time when its future operation can
not be lorefeen ;and the members fiom particu
lar slates cannot potfibly know what number will
rcfult from the ratio they fix upon.
Mr. Smith (N. H.) observed that if the re
prelentation was apportioned every ten years,
with as great equality, as circumflances would ad
mit, this would be amply fufficient for the gener
al fecuHty;
Mr. Madison infilled on the propriety of pro
dding before-hand for the census which is next
:o take place, in such manner, as to render it
mpoffible for local calculations to intrude on the
Juiinefs". If the principle of equality was of one
enth part of the importance that some gentle
nen contended lor, surely some precaution;
>us,ht to he t,:ken to :uard againd those ineuu di
te* that will every day take place, and will by
,ir exceed those which have already agitated the
-ioufe so much :—if it be an evil that one date
hould have greater unrepresented fractions than
mother, it would be a much greater evil, that ar.)
me Hate Ihould be deprived of perhaps three ci
our members, to whom Ihe has a r'ieht. Gen
lemen seemed to think t 1 at the larger ftjte>
"ottld not fuller lo much from thole inequalities,
is the smaller ones ; but he would ask, whethci
he people in every part of the United State;
Mere not to be considered as equal on the floor o!
Mongrels : ten or twenty thousand citizens ol
Mew-York, No: th-Carolina, or Virginia, when
onfidercd in relation to that House, were of as
nuch consequence, as tbefame numberin Rhodc
.Oand or Delaware; it is not to be considered,
vhcther such a surplus rises from ten Reprefen -
a'ives or from a single one.
He could fee no ohjeftion to the measure but
he expence attending it ; but he did not think
he expence ought to be put in competition with
he advantages that would result from it : he
bought even that there would be a considerable
aving of expence, in fettling the matter before
land, when much lefstime will be spent in de
late : —had the quedion been determined at the
afl session, it would not have coll the commit
ntv one tenth part of what it has cod them.
Mr. Boudinot said there was a great differ
:nce between the surplus of a smaller flare re
irefrntedhy a fingla member,and that of a large
>ne whose reprefentarion is more numerous
s the wants, the willies, the intentions of th.
or.flituents are better represented in the lattci
ale, than, in the former.—He wilhed the com
nittee might be left at liberty to d vise whate
er means might seem mofl likely to unite botl
ides ol the House; and wilhed to flrike out al
he latter part of the relolution, from the word
' fird enumeration."
Mr. Daytori thought it by no means proper
hat the present Congress fi.ould undertake to le
;iflate not only for their conflituents, but also so
heir 1 utcelfors in the House, especially in a poin
vliich the future Congrels will be more compe
ent to decide upon.
Mr. Livcrmore remarked, that if the ra'io be
pplied to the people of particular dates, it wil
•eeyer produ£iive of inequality although ;
raclional number may remain as well in a large
s in a small (late, yet it will not affett the large!
o much as the smaller one :—the latio of thirts
houfand gives Virginia twenty-one Reprefen
aiives, ar.d if there remained even a surplus ol
wenty-nme thousand, that slate could not feel
ier in<er«fl« y ery ft-nfiblv aHVacd, and would
lave little real'on to complain ; whereas that ra
-10 operates moie fl.ongly against the slates ol
/erinont, New-Hamplhire, New-Jersey and
Delaware, whose Reprcfentatives are (o much
nferior in number : —Delaware, for indance,
laving but one Representative and a fiaflion oS
bove 25 thousand. would be represented in the
atio of only one to fifty-five thousand this in
quality might be remedied, unless gentlemen,
lecaufe the scale was now turned ia their favor,
\ 1 shed to take all podible advantage of it, and,
s far as in their power, to give perpetuity to the
aw, and make the ratio apply to every future
enfus for ever but could gentlemen fay ther
s now more wisdom in the House, than ever can
lecollefled into it at any future period ? Gen
lemen had adcrted that 120 Repierentatives will
lodefs double that fliare of wisdom, which falls
o the lot ol sixty ; and this very argument had
>een flrongly urged for encreaftng the reprefen
ation to the utmod exten; allowed by the con
litution, because the House is then to pejlT, fs
wtce or three times more wfdom, than is now
ontanie'd within its walls : poderitv, he hoped,
night be truded to pass laws that will affect thcii
>wn time.
After some further remarks bv Mr. Gerry,
Vlr. Xs.lies, and Mr. Barnwell,
The queflion being called for, and divided, it
,vas fiid taken on driking out the provision for a
ccond enumeration and apportionment * and
laving paired in the negative (Yeas, 22 ; Nayj,
Jo) the clause was retained.
Yeas Medrs, Boudinot, S.Bourne, B. Bourne,
Jarke, Dayton, Fit/simons, Gilman, Gre.?g'
hartley, Heifler, Jacobs, Kite hell, Learned, Li
'ermore, Niles, Schoonmaker, Seney, J. Smith,
Irael Smith, Sylveder, Tueker, Ward.
Nays-McflVs. Ames, Afhe, Baldwin, Barn
veil, Benfon, Brown, Findlev, Gerry, Giles,
joodhue, Griffin, Grove. Hu'ger, Key, Kittera.
L,auiance, Lee, Macon, Madison, Moore, Muh
enberg, Murray, Page, Sheredine, Steele, Stur
;es, Sumpter, Thatcher, Tredwell, Venable
Wadfworth, Wayne, White, Williamfon, Wil
is.
*1 he quedion was then taken on finking out
he clause refpeflins the ratio of 30,000, and be
ngcarried in the affirmative (YeasggjNays 26J
ihe clause was accordingly struck out.
Medrs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, Bou
dinot, S. Bourne, Clarke, Dayton, Fiizfimons,
Gilman, Goodhue, Gregg, Grove, Hartley,
Heifler, Jacobs, Key,Kitchell, Kitteia, Learned,
Livermote, Macon, Madison, Nile's, J. Smith.
Israel Smith, Steele, Stuiges, Sylveder, Thatch
er, Tucker, Wadfworth, Ward, Willis.
Nays Medrs. Adie, Baldwin, B. Bourne,
Brown, Fir.dley, Gerry, Giles, Gordon, Griffin!
Huger, Laurance, Lee, Moore, Muhlenberg
Murray, Schoonmaker, Seney, Shere-
Hine, Sterret, Sumpter, Tredwell, Venable
Wayne, White, Williamfon.
Thereport was then agreed to as amended,
md a committer appointed to b'ling in a bil!
onformably thereto.
Weenesday, January 25.
A .petition.of Richard Henly Court:
was read, praying compcnfation for ler
v ices as surgeon's mate in the hofpita!
)■ the Uuitcd States, during thclate wai
—deferred to the Secretary at War.
Mr. Sterret laid on the table a motior
for the appointment of a committee tc
nring in a bill to continue in force ar
tct, declaring the assent of Congrels tc
jcrtain acts of the states of Maryland
Georgia, Rhode-Island and Providence
Plantations.
On motion, it was resolved, that the
President of the United States be re
pefted to cause to be laid before thi<
House, copies of the official communi
rations, which have taken place be
ween the governor of the slate o.
Pennsylvania and the Secretary at War
■vith refpeit to the railing of troop.'
.vithin, and under the direction of faic
late. Ordered, that Mr. Dayton, Mr,
smith (S. C.) and Mr. Brown, be j
-ommittee to wait on the President with
he foregoing resolution.
I he Houic resumed the consideration
)f the amendments reported by the com
nittee of the whole House on Monday
ast, to the bill to ascertain and regulate
he claims to half-pay, and to invalid
mentions, wh'ch being twice read, anc
urther amended, was ordered to be en
rolled for a third reading to-morrow.
Mi. Madison from the committee ap
pointed, presented a bill for makint
urther and more effectual provifior
or the protection of the frontiers o
.he United States—which was read ;
11 ft and lecond time, and committee
o a committee of the whole house to
riorrow.
Thursday, Jan. 26.
A petition of David Tappen was
read, praying compensation in certain
rales—alio a petition of Mary Jackson.
administratrix to the estate if Charle;
Jackson, to the fame effect—Referred
to the Secretary at War. to examine and
report shercon.
A petition of Hugh Cunningham,
praying to be compenfatcd for fervicei
as waggon-master in the United States
iervice, during the late war—Referred
to the Secretary of the Treasury.
An engrossed bill to alcertain and re
gulate the claims to half-pav, and tc
invalid pensions, was read the thire
time, palled, anci lent to the Senate foi
their concurrence.
Mr. Boudinot laid on the table the
following motion :
Resolved that the dignity, grati
tude, and justice of the general govern
mcnt require, that a suitable provilior
be made for the widow and orphar
eh.ldren of the late major-genera]
Greene, in consideration as well of hi<
very great and meritorious fei vices in
he field, as of his patriotic exertions
ind pcrfon d influence in promoting
ind supporting contratts for supplying
he southern army with cloathing and
rations, at a time and crisis when in
Jangerof difbandmg for want of thole
-•Tential neceilaries-—and that a com
mittee be appointed to bring in a bill
lor that purpo/V'
Mr. Macon laid on the table the fol
lowing motion :
" Resolved, that the prayer of the pe
:ition of Catharine Greene cannot be
granted."
ihe House then resolved itfelf into ;
committee of the whole—Mr. Muhlen
berg in the chair—on a bill making pro
vision for the protection of the frontiers,
[ Ihe bill, belides completing the re
giments already on the continental
•ftablifhment, contemplates the raifina
Df three additional regiments of infan
try, each to consist of 912 non-commif.
ioned officers, privates and musicians,
ixclufive of commissioned officers ; and
>ne lquadron of light dragoons (to fcrvc
'ccafionally as infantry) consisting ol
504 non-commissioned officers and pri
vates, belides commissioned officers. J
After some debate on the increase ol
he mihtaryeftablifhment, thecommittec
rose, and obtained leave to fit again—
md a reading of some of the confiden
tial communications from the Prefideni
l ieing called for, the galleries were or
dered to be cleared.
Friday, Jan. 27.
Several petitions were read, praying comptK
"'t'on foriervices rendered-which were refer
red to the Secretary at War.
The Speaker laid before the house a letter
from the treafurerof the United States, with an
account of indents of inten d received, and ilTu
ed by him from the firlt of October, to D -c.
179 1 ' mclulive; which were read, and
ordered to lie on the table.
The House then, in committee of the whole,
took into consideration the bill foi makin" fur
ther provision for the protection of the fron.iers
0 the United States. After fomenine Ipent
therein, the committee rose, to take the fami
into consideration again on Monday next.
4i. Sheridine moved, for the appointment
Of a commmce to wait on the Prefidem of .he
United States, to enquire of him, wh 11 it will
be agreeable to him that his confidential com
munications refpefting the western frontiers
(hall be publicly difculTed in the hpufc.
The following motion, by Mr. White, was
3lio laid on the table :
Resolved, I hat it be a (landing order of this
loule, that whenever confidential communica
10ns are received f,om the President of the Uni
ed States, the HouL- fliall be clea,ed of all per.
ons, except the members and the clerk, and so
•ontinue during the reading of such communis
nations, and during all debates and proceedm s
obe had the eon ; and that when the Speak„r
k any other member, fliall inform t. e house
hat he has communications to mike, which he
■onceives ought to be kept secret, the house
hall in hke manner be cleared until the com
munication be made ; and the house (hall then
letermine whether the matter communicated re.
luires secrecy, or not, and take order accordingly.
U NII ED ST AT ES, Jan, 16, 1792.
S I R ,
AS the circumstances which have engaged the
Jnited States in the pretent Indian war may tome
■t them be out ot the public recoiled,on, and
•thers perhaps be unknowr, It may appear advifd
that J 0 " prepare and publish, f,„ m authentic
iocuments, a flatement of rhofe circumstances, as
veil as ot the mca.u es which have bren taken,
rom time to time, for the re-cftablilhment of
Jeace and friendihip.
When the community are called upon for confi
icrable exertions to relieve a part which is fuffer
ng under the hand of an enemy, it is desirable to
namfelt that due pains have been taken b; those
■ntrufted with the administration of their aftUiis to
ivoid the evil. (S -d)
G. WASHINGTON.
The Secretary for the
Department of It'ar,
The Cauff? of the existing Hjftilirres between the
UNITED S'TATES, and certain Tribes of I ,V.
DIANS North-Weft of the OHIO, fi,ted.,ni
explained from .-.JgiUut and authentic documc
and pubhjhed in obedience to the orders of the P.e
lident of the United States.
A RECURRENCE to the Journals of the
United States in Congrcfi alfembled, of th«
ally If ages of the late war, will evince the ,1. blic
olicitude to pteferve peace with the Indian tr bes,
ind to prevent their engaging in a contest, i.i which
:hey were no wile interested.
But ajthough partial treaties or conventions were
ormed with some of the northern and weltera
ribes, in the years 1775 and 1776 ; yet those trea
les were too feeble to refill the powerful impullVs
>( a contrary nature, arifmg from a combination
if circumstances at that time ; and accordinglv all
he various Indian nations (the Oaeidas, Tufcaro.
as, and a. few individuals of the Dela.vares ex
cepted) lying on our frontiers, from Georgia to
Canada, armed against us.
It is yet too recent to have forgotten, that
;reat numbers of inoffenlive men, women andchi 1-
Iren, tell a facrifice to the barbarous warfare prac
ifed by the Indians, and that many others were
Iragged into a deplorable captivity.
Notwithstanding that these agg'refiions wereen
irelv unprovoked, yet as soon as the war ceased
vith Great-Britain, the United States, inftedd of
ndulging any resentments against the Indian na.
ions, fuught only how to etlablilh a liberal peace
villi all the tribes throughout their limits.
Early measures were accordingly taken for this
>urpofe. A treaty was held, and a 'jeace conclu
•'d, in the year 1784, with the hortiie ps-t of the
lorthern Indians, or Six Nations, at fort Sranwix.
In January 1785, another treaty was formed
vith part of the weltern tribes, at Fort M'lntoflv,
>n the Ohio ; to wit, with the Wyandots, Dels
vares, Ottawas and Chippewas.
During the fame year, treaties were formed at
rdopeweli on the Keowee, with all the powerful
ribes of the louth, excepting the Creeks $ to wit,
he Cherokeees, the Chatfaws and Chickafaws.
In January 1786, a treaty was formed with the
s.iawanefe, at the confluence of the Great Miami
vith the Ohio.
It was not long befo.-e certain turbulent and
na.ignant characters, redding among some of the
lorthern and western tribes, which had formed the
reaties of Fort Stanwix and Fort M'lntofh, ex
ited uneasiness and complaints again ft those trea.
ies. In consequence of representations upon this
übje&, on the sth of October 1787, Congress di
eted, " That a general treaty ftiouid be held with
he tribes of Indians within the limits of the Uni
ed Srates, inhabiting the country north-weft of
he Ohio, and about Lake Erie, as soon after the
irft of April next as conveniently might be, and
it luch place and at such particular time as the
liovernor of the WefternTerritory ftiould appoint^
or the purpose of knowing the cause of uneasiness
imong the said tribes, and removing their com
plaints - y of regulating trade, and amicably fettling
ili affairs concerning lands and boundaries between
;hem and the United States."
On the 2d day of July, 1788, Congress appro,pri-.
" the sum of twenty thousand dollars, in ad,
" dition 50 fourteen thousand dollars before au-." propriated, for defraying the expenccs of the
" treaties which hud been o.dered, or which
might be ordered to be held in the then present
" year with the leveral Indian tribes in the Nor
" thein Department, and far extinguifliing the In
'' dian claims ; the whole of rhe said twentv
tl ti.'♦biand dollars, together with fix thousand
€i dollars of the laid fourteen thousand dollars, to
* l be applied folcly to the purpose of extinguifliing
" Indian claims to the lands they had alreadv ce
Si ded to the United States, by obtaining regula
conve)antes for the fame, and for extending a
4i purchase beyond the limits theretofore fixed bv
4< tieaty j but that no part of the said lums should
*• be applied for any purpose other than those
t( above mentioned.**
Accordingly new treaties were Held at Fort Har
mji the latter part of the year 1788, and conclu
ded on the 9th day of January, 1789, with a re
presentation of all the Six or Northern nations,
the Mohawks excepted—and with a representation
of the following tribes, to wit : the Wyandots, the
Delawares, Ottawas, Chippawas, Pattiwat3mas,
ana Sacks. —By these treaties, nearly tiie fame
boundaries were recognized and established by a
principle of purcbafe, a* had been fiipulated by the
10. '.ner treaties of fort Stanwix and fort M'lntofh.
Thus careful and attentive was the gcvernmtnt
of the United Slates to fettle a boundary with the
Indians on the basis of fair treatv, to obviate the
diflatisfa&ions which had been excited, and to efta
biilh its claim to the lands relinquiihed on the
principles of equitable purchase.
in does not appear that the right of the Nor
thern and Weitern Indians, who formed the sever
al before mentioned treaties to the lands tlierebv
relinquished to the United States, has been quei
ti ned by any other trioes j nor does it appear
that the prelcnt war has been occalioned by an;
dispute relatively to tlie boundaries eftabhlhed b
the laid treaties-
But on the contrary ir appears, that the unpro
voked aggreliions of the Miami and Wabafh In
diansupor. Kentucky and other parts of the fron
tiers, together with their alfociates, a banditti,
formed of Shawanefe and outcast Cnerokeea,
amounting in all to about one thousand two hun
dred men, are folety the causes of the war. Henc<
it is proper that their conduct lhould be more pai
ticularly adverted to.
in the year 1784, when messages were fen? to the
Wyandots ana Delawares, inviting them to meei
the Commilli' n rs, firft at Cayahoga, and after-
Wards at f rt M'lnto/h, their neighbors the Mi
ami Indians w ire also included in the laid invita
tions j but the) did not attend.
in the year 1785 these invitations ivere repeated j
bui the messengers upon their arrival at tne Mia
mi vi Jage, had their hoi-fes stolen, were other wife
treated with infoience, and prevented fulfilling
their mfjion.
in the yea's i7S7and 17SS, new endeavors were
used to b.ing those Indians to treat: they were
urged to be present at the treaty appointed to be
.heid a: Fort Harmarj but these endeavors oroveti
as fruitlefs as all the former.
" At a council of the tribes, convened in 17SS3
at the Miami river, the Miami and Vf'abafh In
dians were prelTed to repair to the treafy w 4 th grea
earnestness by the chTefs of the Wyandots and De
Jawares : the Wyandot chiefs particularly prefeiu
cd them with a large belt of wampum, holding
one nd of't themlelves, and offering the other to
the hoilile Indians, which was refufed. The Wv
andots then laid it on the {boulders of a principal
chief, recommending to him to be at peace vv:t-:
the Americans ; but without making any anlwer.
he leaned himfcif and let it fall to the ground :
this so difplealec the Wyandots, that they imme
diately left he council houle."
In the mean time the frontier settlements were
disquieted by frequent depredati ns and murders,
and the complaints of their inhabitants, (as mighl
fce expected) of rhe pacific forbearance of the
vernmenr, were loud, repeated, and —
their calls for protection inceflant—tilJ at length
they appeared determined by their own efforts tc
enoeavor to retaliate the injuries, they were conti
nually receiving, and which had become intolera
ble.
In this (late of things it was indil'penfioie for th<
government to maJce some deeiiive exertion foi
the peace and security of the frontiers.
Bui notwithstanding the ill success of former ex
periments, and the invincible spirit of anirnolit)
which had appeared in certain tribes, and wh cf
was of a nature tojuftify a persuasion that no im
preUion could be maoe upon them by pacific ex
pedients, it was still deemed advileable to mak<
one more essay.
Accordingly, in April 1790, Anthony Gamelinj
an inhabitant of Post Vincennes, and a man oi
good character, was dispatched to all the tribe!
and villages of the Waba/h river, and to the In
dians of the Miami village, with a ineffage pur
porting, that the United States were defiious 01
eiiablilhiog a general peace with all the neighbor
ing tribes of Indians, and of treating them in al
xcfpe&s with perfect humanity and kindness, an
at the fame time warning them to abstain fron
further depredations.
The Indians in some of the villages on the low
er part of the Wabafh, appeared to lillen to him
others manifefted a different difpoihion, other:
confelted their inability to retrain their youn;
warriors, and all referred the messenger to th<
Indians at the Miami village. At that villag<
some appeared well disposed, but the chiefs of th<
Shawanefe returned the messages and belts, in
forming the messenger however, that they would
after confutation, within thirty nights, fend ar
answer to Post Vincennes—The promised anfwej
•was never received. While the messenger was ai
the Miami village, two negroes were brought ir
from our settlements, prisoners; and upon his re
turn to L'Angu'lle, a chief informed him that «
party of seventy warriors, from the more diliani
Indians, had arrived, and were gone against the
settlements.
In three days after his departure from the Mi
ami village, a prisoner wa* there burnt to death.
Similar cruelties were exercised at the Ouittanon
towns, about the fame time ; and in the co.urfe oi
the three months immediately after the last men
tioned invitation, upwards of one hundred periom
were killed, wounded, and taken prisoners upon
tht Ohio, and in the diftri£ of Kentucky.
It is to be remarked, that prevsoufiy to lh?
lift invitation, the people of Kentuckv, who, ir
> onfequence of their injuries, were meditating' i
liow againftthe hostile Ind ans (as before intima
ted) were retrained by the President of the Uni
ted Staies, from crofting the Oiio, until the ef
fedt of the friendly overture intended to be mad*
piould be known.
It is also to be observed, that the Wyandots arr
DeJawaiei, after having frequently and fruitlefsh
endeavored to influence the Miami and Wabajj.
Indians to peace j upon mature convidtion final
ly declared chat force only cculd effedt the objett
As an evidence that the condud of the hottil<
Indians has been occasioned by other motives thar
i claim relatively to boundaries—it is to be ob-
Icrved, that their depredations have been princi
pally upon the diftridt of Kentucky, and the coun
;ies of Virginia, lying along the fcuth fide o,
the Ohio, a country to which they have no claim,
Ic appears by refpedtable evidence, chat frorr
the year 1783, until the month of Odlober, 1790
the time the United States commenced offenliv*
operations again It the said Indians, that on tin
Ohio, and the frontiers on the fouch fide thereof
they kiiled, wounded and took prisoners, aboul
one thousand five hundred men, women, and chij
3ren ; besides carrying off upwards of two thou
sand horles, and other property to the amount o
fifty thoulancl dollars.
The particulars of the barbarities exercised up.
on many of their prisoners, of different ag?s anc
(exes, although supported by iiioifputabk* evidence
are of tjo ihocking a natu.e to be piefsnted to th<
public. It is fufiicjent upon this head to obfe. ve
that the tomahawk anj fcalping-knife have beer
tiie mildeli 1 Jlruments of death. That in fonw
cases torture by fire, and otlier execrable mean
nave been uied.
But tne ouc, a c es which Were committed upor
tile frontier inhabitants were not the only injurie:
ttiat were (attained : repeated attacks upon de-i
'uenments of the troops of the United wen
at ditfe.ent time a made. The following from ..
peculiar en: unit) deserves recitai.—in April
1790, major Doughty was ordered to the friendh
Cmckalaws on public oufintfs. He performed
this duty iu a boa:, having with him enii o n Se
dam, and a pa.ty of fifteen men. While afcend
>»g the Teneli'ee river, he was met by a party o;
1 jrty Indians in four canoes, conlifting principally
of the aforefaid banditti of Snawanefe, and out
ca'i Cherokees. They approached under a whit<
Hag, the well'known emblem of peace. The]
on boaid the major's boat, received his pre
lents, continued with h.m neaily one hour, anc
then departed in the molt friendly m.nner. But,
they had Icaicely cleared his oars, before the)
poured in a fin: upon his crew, which was return
ed as f)On as circumstances would permit, and «
moll unequal combat was luftained for fevera
hours, when they abandoned their design, bul
not until ihry had ki led and wounded eleven oui
jf 15 of the boat 3 crew. This perfidious conduct,
in any age, would have demanded exemphr pun
• ihment.
All overtures of peace failing, and the depreda
tio s (till contutu'Dg, an arrempt at coercion b-.
1 ame indifpenlible. Accordingly the expeditior
under brigadier-general Harmar, in the
of Odtober, 1790, was diredted. The event i:
known-
After this expedition, the governor of th<
vVeftern Territory, in order that nothing migh
be omitted, to effect a peace without further con
Aid, did, on his arrival at Fort Harmar, in De
cember, 1 fend through the Wyandots anc
Deia.vares conciliatory meflages to the Miamies
but Itill without eftVdt.
i he Cornplamer, a war chios of the Senekas,
and oth r Indians of the fame tribe, being in Phi
ladelpnia in the month or February, 1791, wen
engaged to undertake to im -fefs the ho:tiie In
d awith the conferences of their ir
lollilities, and alio of the jultice and moderatiot
of the United States.
in pursuance of this design, Col. Prodtor, 01
t« e fourteenth of March, was lent to the Corn
p alter 10 haftrn his departure, and to accom
"airy him to the Mi imi v llage—and meffagt
w re lent to the Indi ns of the paci
•ic fen iments o 1 the United States towaidsthem
out ooih Col. Prod >r and the Cornpiancer, al
th.ough zealoully desirous of ex< curing thei
million, encountered difficulties of a par'icula
narure, which were insurmountable, and preve v
ed the execution J'their oiders.
Major-general St. Clair, in the month of April
lent mellages from tort Harmar to the Delaware
exprellive of the pacific designs of the Unirei
Slates, to al) the Indian tribes.
A treaty was he d at the Painted Post by Col
Pickering, in June, 1791, with a part of the So
Nations, at which the humane intentions of thi
general government towards them particularly
and the Indian tribes generally, were fully ex
plained.
Capt. Hendricks, a refpedtable Indian refi.iin|
with the Oneidas, appearing zealoufiy aifpofed t<
attempt convincing the hoitile Indians of thei
mistaken condudi, was accordingly fe-nt for tha
purpose, tut was fryftrated by unforefeen obfta
des, in his laudable attempts.
The different measures which have been recite*
must evince, that notwithstanding the highl
culpable conduct of the Indians in question, thi
government of the United States, uninfluenced b :
refantment, or any falfe principles which migh
j|#iJe from a consciousness of superiority, adopter
every proper expedient to terminate the Indiar
loftilities, without having recouife to the las
extremity , and, after being compelled to resort t(
it, has Itill kept steadily in view the re-establish
ment of peace as its primary and sole objedh
Were it neceflary to add proofs of rhe pacifi<
and humane dispositions of the general govern
ment towards the Indian tribes, the treaties wit*
the Creeks, and with the Cherokees, might b
cited as demonstrative of its moderation and libe
rality.
The present partial Indian war is a remnant ol
the late general war, continued by a number o|
separate banditti, who, by the inceflant prattice
of fifteen years, seem to have formed inveterate
2nd incurable habits of enmity against the frontier
inhabitants of the United States*
To obtain protection against lattlefa violence,
*as a-ma'n object for which the present-govern
nent was instituted. It is, indeed, a main objt-c
>sal 1 governments. A frontier citizen pofiefle
is strong claims to protection as any other citizen.
The frontiers are the vulnerable parts of ever
:ountry ; and the obligation of the governmer
jf the United States, to afford the requificc pro
:eftion, cannot be less sacred in reference o th(
nhabit3nts of their Western, than to those O'
hrir Atlantic frontier.
Ii will appear from a candid review of this sub
eft, that the general government could no longet
nbftain from attempting to punish the hostile In
dians.
The ill success of the attempts f«r this purpose,
s entirely unconnected with the justice or policv
)f the measure. A perseverance in exertions tc
nake the refraftorv Indians at last fenfibie, thai
hey cannot continue their enormous outrage
jvirh impunity, appears to be as indilpe/ fible, ir
:he existing posture of things, as it will be aovife
able, whenever they {hall manifeit symptoms o
a more amicable difpftfition, to convince them
f>y decisive proofs, that nothing is so much defi.
red by the United States, as to be at liberty t
treat them with kindness and be eficence*
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
IVar- Jan, 26. 1792.
PHILADELPHIA,
January go, 1792.
Late letters from Birmingh am mention
:hat M,'. Taylor (who had his house anc
jther property destroyed by the mob) an;
several other refpeftable d (Tenters, wen
preparing to embark for America in th<
ourfecf the present year. Mr. Taylor
alone, it is fa:d, is worth near 200 000 l
lerling.
A coiltrafl: has been palled at Cape-Fran
:ois, the 6th of D cember last. between th<
administration officer.; and M M Girand
r'or the supplying of 30 000 barrel of super
Sne flour, and 15 coo fine ditto, to be deli
vered at the Cape, part in March, and th<
remainder not iater than June, 1792. Thi
prices are, ten dollars for fuperfine, an<
nine dollars for tine, per barrel. Sundr;
:ontrafts have since been made, of whicl
10 information is yet come to hand, bu
sv'll s hortly be advertised
The Ne>v Conftitutioa of Canada tool
trlace on Monday the 26th of December.—
Thi event was celebrated by the F. - encl
Find E igliih inhabitants with the grearei
Jemonftrations of joy. the public rejo cing
jeing continued through the week. Th<
province is now divided into two govern
merits, Upper and Lower Canada.
We are mtorn ed that a committee arc
to meet to view the Raritan on the 20th o
February next —and that Nehemiah Hub.
bard, Esq. of Co mefticut, is appointed ;u
perintendant-general, with a salary of tw<
thousand dollars a year.
We are farther informed that the manu
society expeit from Lyons ii
Prance, early in the praig, a company o
ir.tnufacturers for the R.bbon and Win
department.
Extraß of a letter from a Gentleman now ri
f'dmg at Quebec, to his corrfpondertt 111 N. York
d ted Jan. g, 1792.
" Our humanity was deeply affected by th
dreadful carnage made by the Indians. Yo
may be allured that the number of Indians dn
not exceed 1000, and that nothing laved Gen
Sinclair, and the remainder ol his army but th
great quantity of plunder he left to the Indians
they were composed of various tribes, and'threi
fourths of them remained in the camp to plun
deritandto take scalps, the trophies of thei
vitlorv ; and he that got mod when he return
ed to his nation, acquired the greatest (hare 0
glorv ; hence only about 200 pursued. Th
lofsofthe Indians is under 20 killed and 31
wounded. The victory they have obtained a
so easy a puichafe and the riches they obtainei
by the plunder, and the proviftons they found
will make them a more terrible foe than the
have ever been; they boast of taking an a
mazing quantity of powder and arms, whicl
rhey wanted; many of them were only armei
with spears and hatchets, and I have no doub
bui if another expedition should be let on foot
that they will be met by thiee times the numbe
of Indians. The Indian tribes of nations whi
live manv hundred miles back have all tnteret
into an alTociation, and made the present war ;
cijnmon concern ; they have made peace amonj
to enable them to oppose what the;
call the common enemy. The warriors of th<
different tribes so united, are not less than 15 o
20,000 , —numbers of the Chiefs ol loor I2nu
merous nations were here the last summer.—
Lord Dorchester advised them to make peace
and offered his mediation . He told them tha
he was at pcace with the United States, ant
could give them no afliftance. Their anfwe
was, that the enemy was in their country, an<
would not make peace with them, but on term
dilhonorable, and at the expence of their coun
try, and that they had determined to die befori
they would accept of luch terms. They left u
much diffatisfied with the answer they received
and with a full determination to defend thei
countrv with the last drop of their blood."
BRITISH GOVERNMENT.
TH S boafled equilibrium of this government
(so far as it is a reality) is maintained less by thi
distribution of its powers, than by the force o,
public opinion. If the nation were in favour o
ibfolutc monarchy, the public liberty would foo„
be fnrrendcrcd by their representatives. If a re
publican form of government were preferred,
how could the monarch refill the national will t
Were the public opinion neutral only, and the
public voice silent, ambition in the House of com
mons could wrefl. from him his prerogatives, or
the avarice of its members, might fell to him its
privileges.
Theprovifion required forthe civil lift, at every
acceflion ot a king, Ihewsat once his dependence on
the representative branch, and its dependence on
the public opinion. Were this establishment to
fee made from year to year, instead of being made
for life (a change wirhin the legislative power)
the monarchy, unless maintained by corruption,
would dwindle into a name. in the present
emperolthc nation, however, they w\ u d ob
[tru*£t such a change, by taking fide with their
ting, againfi: their representatives.
Those who ascribe the preservation of the Bri
:ifh government to the form in which its powers
ire distributed and balanced, forget the tvoluti
ns which it has undergone. - Compare its primi
:ive with its present form.
A king at the head of 7 or 800 barons, fitting
:ogether in their own right, or admitting another
lyjothefis) some in their own right, othe-s as
representatives ot a few lesser barons, but ftili
fitting together as a single House ; and the jud
ges holding their offices during the pleafur.* of
the king ; such was the British government at one
period.
At piefent a * ing; is seen at the head of a legis
lature, consisting of two Houfcs, each jealous of
the other,one fitting in their own right, the other
representing the people; and the judges forming
a diftindl and independent department.
In the firfl cafe the judiciary is annexed to the
executive, and the legislature not even formed into
separate branches In the second, the legisla
tive, executive and judiciary are diftincSfc ; and
the legislative subdivided into rival branches
What a coniraft in these forms ? If the latter
be lelf balanced, the former could have no
balince at all. Yet the former subsisted as well
aj> the latter, and lasted longer than the iatter,
dating it from 1088, has been tried.
The former was supported by the opinion and
circumflances < f the times, like many of the
intermediate vaiiations, through which the go
vernment has parted ; and as will be supported,
the future forms through which it probably re
iiains to be conduced, by the progress •*' reason,
ind change of circumflances. an.
[From th L yd n Quzcii<~ —T.anirated.j
Vienna 081. 14. Government has ju'l pub
ifhed an ordinance, enjoining all its magistrates
'* ftridly to observe the conduct of the Fre ch
?migrants in the provinces of Auflria : to prevent
all unlawful excelles and dangerous enterprises 011
their part, and to be particular careful that they
Jo not enlist any Austrian fubjeds— and even to
compel al' such Fienchmeo to quit the country,
who are under suspicions of that nature— <• leize
upon their persons, if neceflary, to examine th m,
and ro lee that they be fu niihed with no l uppiies
whatever bv the fu'njedis of Aufti'a, that might
: nable them to adt orreufively agamft their coun
try.
PRiCE o S 1 O - C
Six per centfor cafli, - 2;j2.
Three per cents, - - - 15/2.
Deferred fix per cents, -- - - i£/4-
Six percent notes at 90 days, 2^/ii,
Three do. - 60 - 1 5/7 m
Deferred do. ----- I SJ ]O '
Bank Stock 1 2 Shares 108, to 109.
— at fix'y days - - 112.
— paid and deliv. 1 ft' June, 116.
Full lhares paid and delivered on Jan. io,
1793, 84 to 85 advance.
Fi lals, interest paid to 1788, 23/".
Back interelt due, - 14/.
Prizes in the Tul;e' e'een canal 75 to 80 dl.
Meteorological Observations.
January, 170°.
D. H. Bar. Tker. Wind. IVeath.
Monday, 23. 7 30. 1 — 5 n.w. Fair.
230. 18 15 do. ditto.
Tuesday, 24. 7 30. 1 5 ~w7 Cloudy,'.
£ 30. o 24 do. Fair.
Wednesday, 25. 7 30. 5 5 s.w. Fair.
2 30. 1 26 do. ditto.
Thurjday, 26. 730.15 3 w. tairT
2 30. 15 28 do. ditto.
Friday, 27, 7 .30. * 2 3s. w. Fair.
so. 25 29 do. I ditto.
Saturday, 28. 7130. 25 9 w. Cloudy.
2'30. 2 20. do. I Fair.
Sunday, 29. 7J30. 25 4 n. IFair.
2 30. 2 29 do. [ditto.
During this week of extreme ccld, the air was
generally clear, and always calm. On Monday
morning the Thermometer was ,5 belcw o. All the
ither numbers are to be undt jiood abovt o.
H O W E L L's
Small MAP of Pennsylvania,
MAY be had of Mr. Bailey, and Mr.
Crukshank, Printers,in Market-street;
or of the author in N. Fifth-ftreet, No.
88, who has the said maps pasted on can
vas, cut, folded and cased for pocket
carriage.
Philadelphia, Jan. 30, 1792.
WANTED immediately, a JOUR
NEYMAN BQOK-BIADER,
to go to Lancajier. Enquire*of Francis
Bailey, printer, No. lib, Higk-Strcet.Various STRICTURES cn Mr. Pitt's SINKING]
FUND : With tbe befl means of alleviating the
NATIONAL DEB'l. From Capt. Newti's
tour in England and Scotland, lately publijhed.
THE fchemc of paying the National debt by
taking from one hand and giving to the
titlier, may justly be considered as a political fo
philm. The public is at once debtor and credi
tor. T0 impose taxes for the difchargeof the pub
lic debt, puts one in m:nd oi the covetous man in
Molicre, who, chagrined beyond measure at the
loss of his money, and ignorant whom to accuse
of the theft, or where to apply for restitution,
Seizes his own left hand with the right, and cries
outin a praoxytmof paflion, "and m;.felftoo! i
will charge myfelf with the robbery !"
As this is an important fubjedt, and either un
touched, or little infitted on by financiers and po
liticians, let us endeavor to illustrate it.
First, It is univerSaliy allowed that the wealth
of a nation conliits in its industry.
Secondly, 1 hat the cxerciSe of ingenuity and
enterprile in large undertakings or cuncerns, can
not have place without a capital.
Thirdly, The finking fund may be qonfidered
as a capital laid out by the nation at vei v -iow in
terest, inltead of being employed in trade and ma
nufactures.
touithly, Defines the difference between ex
tremely low interest, and the immense returns of
trade, there is, in the finking fund, the expence
of collection.
Fifthly, rne objedt of the finking fund is two
fold : firft, the ftabiiity of public credit J Second
ly, the benefit of posterity.
With regard to public credit, it will never be
ihaken while we can pay the interests of our debts,
though we Ihould never diminish the principal :
even towards the end of the American war, go
vernment was able to b»rrow more money than it
wanted.
But, without a finking fund, the very progress
of time, if our manufactures and comm«rce con
tinue to flourifh, would alleviate the public burden
by a gradual depreciation in the value of money.
At the fiift establishment of a standing army, the
pay oi a common soldier, fix pence a day, was cal
culated and fix'dd, on the principle that the soldier
would be placed on the fame footing, with regard
to income, with an ordinary mechanic, as a flioe
znaker, a taylor, Sec. who, from J 63 3 to 2660, the
period when the two oldest regiments were railed,
earned per diem, on an average, sixpence. But an
ordinary mechanic, at this day, in any part of the
kingdom, can gain more than triple that sum 3
and in the capital, and other places, more than fix
times. The medium, therefore, is, that from the
period jult mentioned to the present, the value of
money has decteafed three fourth parts of its value.
Now, as commerce continues, where it is prosper
ous, to encreafe in a kind of geometiical propor
tion, the future decrease in the value of money
may be expeCted to be extremely rapid ; so rapid",
indeed, as to elude calculation.
Even if it were certain that a finking fund, tho'
oppreflive to the present race, would nevertheless
prove a blefling to posterity, the queition oi the
liilhman might fairly be put <l I pray you, what
did ever posterity do for us?—" Sufficient for the
day is evil thereof." But, in just calculation, a
finking fund, Squeezed out of the people, is not a be
nefit, but a Joss to posterity. It transmits to our
successors a depreciated sum of money or capital,
inltead of the fruits of the labour which this capi
tal would now purchase. It is as if an Englilh
manufacturer ihould fend to his friend in Tom
budtoa or Acapulco, guineas or other golden coins
instead of British manufadtures. It is, as if a
landholder or farmer, instead of improving his
estate or farm, should lock up, for the benefit of
his grand children, his guineas, crowns, and half
crowns, in his strong-box. The conclusion to be
drawn from all this reasoning is, that we ihould let
this weight of the public debt alone. It is a max
im in physics, that the momentum of bodies depends
on the quantum of their velocity multiplied into
that of their matter. Dead preiTure is next to
nothing. This maxim holds, in Some degree, in
moral concerns. 1 here is neither genius nor
foundjenli in harrafiing the nation for the etta
blilhment of a finking fund. It would be wife po
licy, instead of impoling unneceflary burthens to
remove taxes, wherever their weight affedts indus
try. If there be a Surplus revenue after this, ap
ply it in bounties, or in any way that may belt
promote general and productive exertion. Be
careful of one thing, never to add to the national
debt. Let the supplies, even on new and great
emergencies be tailed boldly within the year ; from
which this great advantage would arise, that no
adminiftrationcould carry on any projedt, whether
of peace or War, without the general concurrence
of the nation. Itjs not the debt already contrac
ted, however great, that is the evil we. have most
reason to dread ; but the aptitude of all ministers
to impose new taxes on every fubjedt, that we
ought to watch with a jealous eye. They lie in
wait, on various pretences, to catch that money
which, if left as a capital in the hands of the people,
would Serve as a Spur to general industry. Sound
policy, therefore, adopting the langua 3 e of Spen
tcr, Speak to the British nation thus :
The very bed that I can thee advise
Is to remove the occasion of the ill;
For when thecaufe, whence mifchief doth arise,
Removed is, th' effedt furceafeth Hill.
It is unnecessary to observe, that in quoting
these observations, it is not the prcSent'intention
to enter into the qutftion, whether vpc have in re
ality a Sinking fund or no; or, in other words,
whether our annual expenditure, ail pnobable con
tingencies being taken into the account, is not
equal to onr annual income; nor yet into that
ether queition, whethr r the present mode of liqui
dating the national debt, supposing that our income
really exceeds our expenditure, is "n6t as eligible
as any ot those that were thrown out on all hands
to the public, when the minister made an opcion.
The simple question here proposed to liberal finan
ciers and politicians, is whether, since Grea,
Britain has not jet come near to the ultimatum at
its improvcability, the whole, or part of tlwt jno
ney which is employed by the public, in buying up
Itockfor the public, might not be more advantagc
oufly laid out in such plans of general improvement
as contribute to alleviate the national debt,
by dividing it among a greater number of' hands,
and leilening more and more the value of money r
Whether the whole, or part of the Surplus revenue,
if there be an), might not be more happily em
ployed in the eacouragement of agriculture and
manufactures, than in being laid out at three and
a hall per cent, in the public funds ? Nay, and
whether that lurplus revenue would not, on the
whole, be more produdtive, left as a capital in the
bands of indultrious individuals, than drawn forth
into the ihape of a linking fund, to the difcou
ragement of Several branches of trade and manu
u&ures? it may farther be observed, that we nei
ther have, nor can have, any security that the fink
ing fund will always be preserved (acred and invi
-late. The fame authority that created may an
nihilate it : and a time m«y come, when it ma\
jnly serve as a tempting bait to the rapacity us
Some unprincipled miniller, who may even bribt
a majority in parliament-by a participation in tht
public plunder.
To tbe Editor of the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Sir,
HAD Verus, in your paper of yefterJay, read
Cardinal Bellarmine or any other Catholic
writer on indulgences, he would not itill conceive,
that there is a good deal of reason in a late aiTertion,
(< that lotteries were like the pope's indu gences,
forgiving and permitting fins, to raise money."
Nay, had Verus, who refpeS far the
good intentions of many Roman catholics in this and
every fart of the world, had he, who considers them
as woi Slippers of " the man of fin, the son of per
dition," even read their catechism, he would have
seen the absurdity of the comparison. Such ig
norance in a man, who undertakes to write againit
the tenets of catholics, does not indeed provoke
their indignation } but it excites their pity. T hey
charge this imputation and many others equally
calumnious, to the credulity of weak rr.cn, who
devour eagerly every accusation, howsoever absurd,
againll thufe who profefs a different religion. The
surprise of Verus mult be great, when, on exami
nation, he lhall find, that neither Bella,mine nor
any other catholic divine, ever understood bv an
indulgence, a permiflion or licence to commit fin,
or even the forgivenefs of fins already commuted.
Yet while Verus was endeavouring to impiefs his
readers with the contrary notion, although un
doubtedly be supposed bimfelf doing what -was right,
he was only retailing a ffale calumny. But, lays
he, there arc people now living in America, who have
purchased indulgences for their fns of tbe p pi.
WhereasPf) us tells us, that tbe price current bjsbeew
often altered, he would undoubtedly gratify public
curiosity, were he to learn from them, what are
the modern rates. These reformed offenders will
not probably ftcp forward and declare, for which
of the lint mentioned \a the price current, they ob
tained an indulgence by purchafa. Verus there
fore calls up Guthrie's geographical grammar to
Support his charge. This, Mr. Editor, is one of
the barefaced calumnies, which have been pioujly
invented to cry down popery. Jt would be equal
ly inconliltent to learn the tenets of chriflians from
their pagan adversaries in the firft ages, as thofc
of the catholics from their prejudiced opponents.
A hook, fays Verus, was piMijhed fomc-what less
than two hundred years ago, by toe then pope, with
a long lift of indulgences, and tbe prices affixed to
them, it is (trange indeed, that within tiiel'e two
hundred years, amidst the light, which the refor
mation so aftunifhing in the eyes of Verus produ
ced, no protectant hiltorian, no cotemporary writer
remarked the publication of such an extraordinary
book. Qutre. When any system of religion is
attacked by calumnies, does it not form a prepol
leliion in its favour ?
To prevent further misrepresentations on this
Subject, let Verus learn through the channel of
your paper, that the catholic dodtrine concerning
indulgences, neither means the remifiion of fin,
nor a licence to commit fin, but a release from the
canonical penances, which cannot be obtained by
any not already juftified from the guilt of fin, by
sincere repentance and the sacrament of penance.
By an indulgence, the truly pious may obtain re
mifiion of temporal punilliment, which often re
mains due, after the guilt of fin is forgiven.
The application of the text of St. Paul, con
cerning •' the man of fin, the son of perdition"
to the pope, is of a piece with the notions o(Verus,
concerning indulgences. To avoid bein;; tedious
to you, Mr. Editor, 1 refer Verus lor inltrudtiun
to the celebrated proteitant divine, Mr. Thorn
dike, in his treatile of jay? weights and measures,
ch. 2. Let not them, fays he, nubo charge the pepe
to he antichriji, and the papi/ls idolaters, lead the
people by tbe nose to believe, that they can prove their
Juppalition, when they cannot.
VER.AX. '
January 24th, 1791.
P. S. Verus would be happy, if a temperMHm
velligation of the dodtrines of popery, were entered
into through tiie ncwlpapers. The catholics be
ing m long pofl'eliion of their tenets, are Satisfied
10 niton the defet.live. If Verus think proper
topurfue the invelligation, we hold ourselves bound
I 'J faiisfy every one, who ajketh us a reason of that
hope, which is in us, that they may be a/haned who
)ajey atcufe our gr.od convocation in.CtiJt. We
will reply with temper, hoping, that our antagonist
will adt with candour, and with a Sufficient know
■ edge of our tenets.
From a late London Paper.
PAINTING UPON GLASS
This very fafcinating and brilliant branch of
the Arts, was lome years since Suppufed to be loft.
It is now not only recoveied, bu. materially im
proved. The few old Specimens which remain in
antient Cathedrals, &c. are almost invariably ill
drawn, added to th's tbe figures are eirher put in
ittitudcs to ftiit the (hapes of the glass, or ciit to
pieces by the lead and iron work with which it is
■leceffarily -interfiled. Mr. Pearson, with
wh*fe produffions the public ire well acquainted,
haiadopted a method by which this inconvenience
is removed. ?1 - has palmed a full length por
trait, as large as life, of Bis Royal Highntfs the
Prince of Wales, in the character of St.
George, from a pitture by Mr. Barky $ in which,
tnaugb the circumference paiate-4 upon is 8 feet
by 5, the lead and iron is wholy concealed, and
the whole appears without joining or divilion, ai
one entire plate of glass.
A smaller figure, copied from the fame Artist,
representing the Birth of Venus, from Lucreti
us, has a molt enchanting effect $ and a cop*
from one of Wright's Blackfmitb'i jhopx, ha.-
an etfeft of lire, that aimolt deceives the e\ e.
For invention, dignity, grace, and greatnefsj
che leven Cartoons by Raphael have evei been
elteemed the firlt productions in the world. Sir
James Thornhill made l'eveo adrrtirable co
pies as large as tne originals $ these copies wert
soon after Ms death purcbafed by the Duke 01
Bedford, who built a room purposely for their
reception. For engraving them Queen Anne
conferred the honour of Knighthood on Dorig
ny, the Engraver $ besides his set, there have
teen made ftom them, tolerable, and many
intolerable Points* With a pexfe vera nee and tally
! tliatdoes her great honour, Mrs. Pear eon ha s
I now transferred these chef d' oeuvret of the great
est A r tilt that existed, to seven of the large It pie
j ces of glass that ever palled through the iicry or
deal of the furnace. Conlidermg the lubjedh,
| the painter, and the manner in which thev are
| copied, it is not easy to imagine any set of paint
ings that would be more appropriate ornaments
lor a private chapel.
PARALLELS.
The Civilized the Savage.
From the European Alagaxine*
THE Savage rises in the morning, and takes
his bow and runs through the forelt, and returns
loaded With animal food for his family : vegeta
bles spring up lpontaneoufly under his feet.
The peasant gets up with the fun to serve hit
matter s cattle, waters the foil with the sweat of)
his brow, and reflects that all this is not for him
felf.
The Savage has in abundance the viands thai
please him, the drink which he prefers, and re
ceives every thing as it is prepared the hands oi
nature.
The Civilized man has but a scanty pittance
of unsavory food, is obliged to Itruggie with his
wants, and to quench his thirll with an unwhoie
fome beverage.
The inhabitant of the woods conliders his da
fires as the bleliings of nature, lince he can chufe
and vary his pleasures at his will.
The Civilized man is obliged to concenter his
happiness in one objedt $ it sickness or accidents
incapacitate him, there remains to him nothing
but uneasiness and imbecility.
Ihe one depends only upon the ordinary pro
gress of events, which carries us on along with it.
The other is encompafled with chains, kings,
government, laws, society : prejudices adt every
instant even upon his very thoughts. -
The former feels no anxiety for the future
welfare of a family, however numerous it may be,
is tormented by no tributes, no burthens, the ap
pendages of social life.
The latter has continually before his e>es the
wretchedness that threatens his family, hears eve
ry instant the voice of the tax gatherer at hit
door, and is frequently at a loss how to provide
cloathing which conventions have rendered necef
fary.
The one feels no fatal effe&s from storms,
droughts or inundations j his houl'e is a tree, his
field is every where, and nature is his country.
The other, a vi&im to the inclemency oi the
seasons, fees his provisions consumed b> the burn
ing fun, or carried away by impetuous torrents.
The being whose destiny we lament, is chear
ful, alert, courageous by nature, lives contentedly,
and dies without regret, because he conceives he
Ih all soon revive.
The being whose lot vv e boast of, bears in bis
emaciated and furrowed visage the traces of mi
sery, is never sure of to-morrow, and dies in the
midst of troubles, fears, and uncertainty.
Tranjlatlonsfrom the Leyden Gazette, &c t OOu
- ber 28.
PARIS, October 21.
It is remarkable, that in the various tumuli.'.,
that have been exfcited among the populace on ac
count of the proreftants being allowed to preach|
their dodtrines without hindrance, women havi
been t)"ie sole a&ors ifMPnd on several occaf.ont
have gone to such mif®ievous lengths, that even
the loWefl vulgar amonathe men, have voluntari
ty the city gua«is in reducing these prielt
ridden-Viragos This ungovernable
temper in our wgYnen is not difficult to be ac
counted for. In times past it ha-> been the poJic\
of the teaching clergy, always to make lure of the
mistress of the family. No pains having been
previously spared to make them sincere converts t<
che tenets of bigotry and fanaticifm, the men, o?
consequence, became an easy prey, and were not f<.
mnth tp._, fji he principles of intolerance
h thele means t.ken such deep root in the
minds ofthe lower class of our females, no won
der that the laws of equity and justice find it dif
ficult to inspire them with a tolerating spirit il.
matters of religion.
The firft feflions of the second Legislative As
sembly of France have been marked with that
fame inltability and want of good order as the for
mer Afi'embly. The public, however have gain
ed one advantage in this which they had not in the
I alt, that is, the complete eltablifhment of comin'tt
rets. These preparatory alfemblies infinitely ac
celerate the labours of the general aflembly, ii,
arranging the matter, and fitting every fubiedlfo:
methodical difcufiion. The capital question was,
how to Iteer clear of certain abuses with which
the committtees of the conflicting aflembly had
been jnllly reproached. The organization oi
those commiuecs was, in many refpedfc#, faulty $
particularly in this, that a single individual couM
be a infmber of fevers! committcs at th- fame;
time ; that their duration was permanent ; and
that they could decide upon questions v.\thoup
consulting the aflembly—'The legillature now in
feflion, (enfiblt of those abuies, have decreed, i,
That no member can be of more committees tnai>
one at the tame lime. 2. That previous to pre
lenting their reports, each committee (hall take
care to have them printed and diilributed among
the general aflembl.y, at leait eight days before
they are delivered in for a&ual legidjtive confider
atiun. 3. The committees (htill not diredly
receive memorials, addrelles, or petitions ; but
toat every document of this nature mart come
to them through the aflembly, at whose op
tion i; lli 111 be to refer them to committees or
not. 4. Committees (hail not In any cafe make
answers to questions, nor decide thereon, whether
provisionally or definitively. 5. Their fittings
and deliberations (hall be open to all the members
of tiie alTembly, who (hail choose to attend or af
iiU therein.—As to the mode of organizing com
mittees, it is decreed, that a paper (hall be provi-
Jed* diltributed into as many columns as there are
committees; each member of the afiembly to
write h s name, employment, department, and
place of abode, in the column appropriated to that
part of the public bulinefs which is alfigned to him,
or to which he thinks himfelf equal. The mem
bers of each committee (hall then be chosen by
limpie balloting, one half of which to be changed
alternately every three months.—The number of
committees to be 22 ; the members of each to be
24, except the committee of legislation, which
(hall conflfl of 48, the whole to be changed every
fix months.—The following is a lift of the com
mittees, and the name proper to each. 1. The
committee of the diftri&s of the kingdom; 2, of
civil and criminal law; 3, of liquidation ; 4, ex
amination of accounts ; 5, public expenditures;
6, certificate and money matters ; 7, public con
stitutions ; 8, the national treasury ; 9, the pub
lic debt , 10, agriculture and internal communi
cations ; it, commerce, manufadJurcs, and arts ;
12, matters relative to the feudal law; 13, for the
military; 14, for the marine ; 15, for domain? ;
16, diplomatic, or foreign employments ; 17, for
the colonics ; 18, for public aids ; 19, public edu
tation ; 20, petitions ; 21, decree's; 22, for the
infpedtion of the secretary's books and the print
ing-office.— According to this lift, five commit
tees are abolilhed by the second alTembly, viz. that
for the clergy—penlions—refearch— report—and
the constitution.—A member flood up, at a late
fitting, and gravely proposed a committee rf vigi
lance ; i. e. to watch over the proceedings of tns
afiirmbly, and prevent any thing being done to
wound the constitution.—His colleague got
and proposed in his turn, that, " of this commit
tee, every individual in the house (hould be a mem
ber."— It is evident that the second legiftative as
sembly may claim great merit from having thus
made a pri per distribution of the immense labours
before them : the public now hope that they will
expedite bulinefs, as a malevolent spirit seems to
be gathering ftreng'.h amongst us, and every thing
announces it high time to put a stop to the emi
gration of the noblesse and priests, as well as to the
incredible desertion of the officers from the fron-.
tier army ; in regard to whom a motion has been
recently made in the afiembly, to declare them in -
famous t and traitors to their country.
A few Copies of the following REPORTS and
ACTS may be had at the Office, No. 239,
Market-Street.
REPORT of the Secretary of the Trea-
Jury, relative to a provision for the
Jupport of public credit.
Pla.ifor the general arrangement of the
Militia of the United States, by the Secreta
ry at IVar.
Report of the Secretary of State for efla
blifhing a uniformity in the weights, mea
sures, and coins of the United States.
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury
on eflablifhing funds for paying interefl on
the debts assumed by the United States.
Attorney General's Report on the Judici
ary System of the United States.
Report of the Secretary of State on the fub
jecl of the Cod and Whale fj/ieries.
AbflraEl of the Exports of the United
States for one year.
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury
on a National Bank.
Secretary of State's Report on Weflem
Lands.
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury
on Manufactures.
An Ad to incorporate the Subscribers ti
the Bank of the United States, with the Sup
plement.
An AB to provide more effeStually for ths
Collection of the Duties on Goods, Ware, t3
Merchandize imported into the United
States, and on the Tonnage of Ships or Ves
sels.
The Act commonly called the Excise Law.
The JOU RN AL of the House of Repre
sentatives for the three frfl fejfions, with In
dexes complete, may be had separate, or half
bound in one vol.
The LAWS of the firfl threeJejfions of
Congrejs (publijhed by authority) in folio r
half and whole bound, with a complete In
dex.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAINE,
AT TKEI* OFFICE, NO. 239, HIOH-STSHT,
MAR SIXTH-STREET,
rhlLAPifctHIA.