Vol. I.
Copy of the French PATENT LAVv.
The Law relative to ufeful discoveries, nd to
afiure the property to those that (hl ll be known
to be the authors.
Given at Paris, Jan. 7, 1791.
Louis bv the grace of God, and, by the con-
Jlituiional law of the jlate, Kin? of the
.French, to all present and to com: ; Greet
ing ;
The National AfTemb'y lias decreed, and j
we will and order what follows : —
Decree of the National Affcmbly of the 31J?
of December, 1791.
National AfTtmbly;conjidering
.-5. all new ideas, ot which the rnani
le flat ion or improvement may become ufe
ful to society, as belonging originally t;>
those who have conceived them ; and,
that it would be to attack the rights of
men in their ejjence, not to regard a diicu
very as the properly of the author, and
conlidering at the lame time, that tiie
want of Inch a pjfitive and authentic
truth until the present time, has much
cont ibuted to discourage the French m
dullry, as it has occalloued numbers oi
our moll diltinguifhed artists to emigrate
and has been the means bf numbers ot new
inventions being carried into foreign conn
tries, of which th s kingdwm ought to
have had the firlt advantages ; in line,
considering that every principle of jullice,
public order, and national intcreit posi
tively commands to fix ior the future, the
opinion of evcty French citizen on this
fort of property by law, which fnall be
facied, and which iliall be protected ; —
[Decree what follows :
Article ifi. ALL discoveries, or new
inventions in every kind of genius are the
property of their authors, conlequently,
the law will ensure the full and entire en
joyment of such inventions or discoveries,
following the mode, and fjr the time
which Iliall hereafter be determined.
2d. Ail means that may be added of a
new degree of jerf.-Ction to any fabrica
tion, be it wiiat it may, shall be rega.ded
as an invention.
3d. Whoever shall be the firfl to bring
into Fran e any foreign Qifcovery, shall
enjov the fame advantage s as if he had in
vented it.
4th. Those thatwifh to preserve, oraf
fuie aproperty on works of ;;enius, such
a,s have been already mentioned in tlie
preceding articl s, shall be obliged firjt to
apply to the secretary's office of his de
partment, and there declaie by writing,
it the object tiiat he presents 13 an in
vention, an improvement, or only an im
portation. Secondly. He mull give a seal
ed packet of the exact oefcription of the
principles, means, and proceedings which
conllitute the dilcovery , likewise the
plans, cuttings, drawings, and models
which shall thereto belong, that the said
packet may be ready to be opened the
moment whin the inventor shall receive
iiis title to the property.
jth. When any obje£t of general uti
lity, but of an execution tco plain and
ealily imitated to be of exclusive advant
Age to the invent r, and in every cafe
when an inventor would prefer to treat
dire&ly with t:ie government, he shall be
free to make his address, either to the ad
miniflrative afTembly, or to the legislative
hodv, if they are fitting to confide his dis
coveries in lTiowing the advantages, and so
liciting a recompense.
6th. When an inventor will prefer to
</lie personal advantages, assured by the
law, the honor of letting the nation di
rectly enjoy the fruits of his di covery, or
invention ; and, when he fliali prove by
public notoriety, and by legal attentions,
that the discovery or invention is of real
utility, he (hall be allowed a recompence
from the fund deflined for the encourage
ment of industry.
7th. In fine, toenfureto every inven
tor the enjoyment of his property in his
invention, he fnall have delivered to liim
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhed Wednesdays and ' atup.day;, at Three Dollars per aatiu-i.
WEDNESDAY, July ii, 1792.
a patent according to such form as shall;
be pointed out in the rules for the execu-i
tion of the present decree
Bth. The patents fhail be given for five, j
ten, or fifteen years, at the choice of the j
inventor, but the lad term cannot be j
prolonged without a pai ticular decree of j
the legifiative body.
9th. Any discovery or invention im |
proved, fh::Il oniy be for the term of years <
that is given to the original inventor in |
the country from whi_h it is brought.
Jo h The patents upon pa'chment, j
and ftal d with the feai of the na'ion t
lisall be regiflered in the fecp-etarv's office j
-f the i'i e&ories of all the departments |
n the kingdom, and it {hall be fufficient!
to obtain, to address to thcfe dire&or es, f
who shall be charged to procure them for
the inventor.
lull. It fliall be free for every citizen ■
to go and copfiilt at the secretary's office
of his department, the catalogues of all
: vv inventions ; it fliall be, likewise, free
f r all citizens that r.re house-keepers, to
ronuilt at the general depofite, eftabliflied
for this purpose, tlie Ipeeifications' of the
.afferent patents r. flually in use ; notwith
(landing, the descriptions fliall not be
c mmunicated in such cases where the in
ventor, having thought that wife and
commercial reasons required fecrefy in his
.iifcovertes, he fliall have prtfented to. the
legifiative body, his motives, and fliall
have obtained a particular decree for that
purpose : In a cafe where it fl all be de
claredthata description shall remain secret,
there fhail be n med commiflioners to ex-;
amine the exactitude of description : The
author remaining flill responsible for this j
exactitude, as much as if the thing we ej
open to general infpeftion.
12th.. The patentee fliall cniaz. cxclu- i
fitcly the use and fruits of 'his difcftVery, j
invention, or perfed' ion for which the .pa j
tent shall have been obtained ; cons q\ient-[
Iv, tb said patentee, on giving gtwi ;.nd i
fufficient surety, fliall seize any objects j
that are counterfeited, and bring the per |
son ; I.at has counterfeited them before the
tribunals.
When any person i 6 having
counterfeited the p operty of a patentee,
he, (the counterfeiter) fhail p?y to the
inventor according to the vnlite of the
things counterfeited ; and over and above,
a fine to the poor of the pari";;, amount
ing to the fourth part of what fliall have
already been recovered for the things
counterfeited: Provided, that the fine
Hiall not exceed 3000 livres, and dou
b!e in cafe of the repetiti n of the offence
13th. In a cafe where an information
has been put in force, end the person so
informed against proves his innocence, the
patentee shall be obliged to pay all damages,
proportional to the trouble and tftifchief
he may have done to the party, and like
wise, a fine amounting to the fourth part
of the damages, unless that should be a
bove 300 livres and, double in cafe of re
petition.
14th. All patentees fliall have theright to
form and establish in any part of the king
dom, or impower others to employ the
means granted to him, and, in all cases
the patentee shall be free to dispose of his
patent right as of any other property.
15th. At the expiration of each patent,
the discovery or invention fliall belong to
the community ; the dcfcrip ion fliall be
made pir lie, and the use permitted in any
part of the kingdom, to the end that eve
ry ci izen may be free to enjoy and use
them ;at leaf!, such a3 a decree of the
legifiative body has not prolonged, or
may have ordered to be secret, as in cases
provided for by the 1 Jth article.
16th. The description of a discovery,
as announced in a patent, fnall be made
public, and th 1 " life of the means and
proceedings relative to this discovery fliall,
also, be.declarcd free in all parts of the
kingdom, whenever the patentee fnall have
101 l his rights : which can oniy happen in
tlie ctv~ p s hereafter mentioned ; firft an
inventor shall be deprived of his rights on
bein;; :onvitled of concealing the true
means employs in his dcfcriptions.—
Secondly, all proprietor- who {hall be
convitt .•! of using any fecrct in their fa
brications, that they have not frown in
thtir dcfcriptions, or have not made a
declaration thereof, that it might have
been jo; ed to the d; fcrlptions that they
had j,.' .n, (hall be deprived of their
rights- . i'ii>" v, All in*enters or fnc.
as call t!;e. 1.1.es so, that fl,;dl be convic
ted of l.avii. • : otr.ined a patent of difco
verics, for ii 'ii :.s ave been deposited, or
pul'ljhed in p: nud,works, shall lose thtir
patents Fdurt..l/, All inventors who in
the coi:,fe|of two years from the date of
their patents, h. ve not put in force their
inventions, or assigned any reason for their
in afticn, Ihallbe deprived of their rights
Fifthly, All inventors who have obtained
a patent in France, and afterwards one
for the fame obieEl in any foreign country,
on being convicted, (hall forfeit his right
to bis • atent in France. Sixthly, Every
one tlia! acquires the right to exercise a
Jifcovf y announcedinapateiif,mu(tfubmit
to thel» .re obligations as ?.n inventor ; and
ifheobj:<fts, the patent willbe revoked, the
lifcovery made public, and the use be
:ome free throughout the kingdom.—
171! The nationa aflembly inten s
not t-o i::]tire such exchtf.ve rights, as were
lereiofure allowed to inventions or disco
reries ; when a ! l the legal forms have
been otiftrved for 'these privileges, which
shall hr ve their full effedt: but the pofli(Tors
:>f privileges formerly granted, dial) be
held to comply with this decree the au
triors,, who had th =ir privileges from an
r.rrct of council, or on betters patent not
regiltrred (hall have them converted, with
i)nt any expense, into patents, but only
for the term which is to run, by proving
that the said privileges ave been obtain
ed for discoveries and inventions, such as
!; tve been announced in he foregoing ar
tic es, when the proprietors of the said an
ci nt privileges already registered, and,
likewise, r.f those which 'hall be changed
ivito patents, shall be free to dispose of
them according to the r4_t h article.
18th. The committee of agriculture
and of commerce, joined to the commit
tee of impohtions, will piefent to the na
tional assembly, a Rule that (hall fix the
duties on patents of inventions, according
to the term each is to continue, winch
(had inciude all the different articles con
tained in the present decree :
Given and ordered to all tiibunals, go
vernors, and corporations, that, these
presents they (h dltranfcribe into thtir
regillers, read, publish, post in their
refpe£tive jurisdictions and depart
mcn s, and execute them as the law
of the realm ; in faith of which, we
have signed, and had counter-signed
the said presents, to which we have
put the seal of the State at Paris, Ja
nuary 7th, in the year i/9i> and the
17 th of our reign.
(Signed) LOUIS.
M. L. F. du Port.
[The following Extraßfrom Mr. Peine'>■ Rights
of M an, will give a tolerable idea whether ex
clusively privileged societies tend to the
general benefit of a country or net.J
On CHARTERS and CORPORATIONS.
IT is a perversion of terms to fay, that
a charter gives rights. It operates by a
contrary effect, that of taking rights aw?y.
Rights are inherently in all the inhabi
tants; but charters, by annulling those
rights in the majority, leave the right by
exclusion in the hands of a few. If char
ters were conftrufied so as to express in
direct terms, " that every inhabitant, who
is not a member of a corporation, (hall
not exetcife the right of voting." such
charters would in the face, be charters,
not of rights, but of exclusions. The ef
fect is the fame under the form they now
Numb. 73.
(land ; and the only persons on whom
they operate, are the persons whom they
exclude. Those whose rights are guaran
teed, by not being taken away, exercise
no other rights, than as members or the
community they are entitled to without a
charier ; and, therefo e, all charters have
no other than an indirect nega ve opera
tion. They'do not give rights to A, bui
they mike a difference in favour of A by
taking away the right of J', and cjL.e
quentlv are iufltumen o: injudicc.
Bui chart: >-s and corporations have a
more extensive evil effect, than wliat re
lates merely to elections. i hey are sour
ces of endless contentions in the places
where they exist ; and tuey leficn the
common lights of national Society. A
native of England, tin del the operation of .
charters and corporations, cannot be said
to be an Englishman in the full sense of
the word. He is not free of the nation,
in the fame manner that a Frenchman is
fret of France, and an Am erica'n of Ame
rica. His rights aie circumscribed to the
town, and, in iome cases, to the parish
of his birth; and ail o her parts, though
in his native land, are to him as a forei n
country. To acquire ; rcfidencein these,
lie mult undergo a lucal natural zation by
purchase, or he is forbidden or expelled
the place. This species of feudality is
k pt up to aggrandize the corporations
at the ruin of towns ; and ttie effedt is vi
iib'le.
The generality of corporation towns
are in a state of solitary decay, an,l pie
vented from further ruin on.y by fame
circumstance in their situation, such as a
navigable river, or a plentiful furiounding
country. As population is on ■of the
chief fotirces of wealth, (for without it
land itfelf has no value) every thing which
operates to . rcve:U it ro. Jcfifsn the va -
lue of property ; and as corporations have
not only this tendency, but circtii y l] i* s
effedt, they cannot hut be injurious. If
anv policy were to be followed, instead
of that of general freedom to every perfou
to fettle where he cliofe (as in Fr nee and
America) it would be more confident to
give encouragement to new comers, than
to preclude their admifiion by exa&insj
*. r i
premiums from tnem.
The perfms moll imme iintely interest
ed in the abolition of corporations, are
the inhabitants of the towns where corpo
rat ons are established. The inltances of
Mjiichefter, Birmingham and Sheffield,
(hew, by contrail, the injury which those
Gothic inttitutions are to propert ad
commerce. A few examples may be found,
such as tiiat of London, v.hose natural
and commercial advantages, owing to its
situation on the Thames, is capable of
bearing up agamfl the political evils of a
corporation ; but in almost all other ca
ses fatality is too visible to be doubted
or denied.
Though the whole nation is not so di
rectly affected by the depreflion of pro
perty incorporation towns as the inhabi
tants themfeives, it partakes of the con
sequence. By leder.ing the value of pro
perty, the quantity of national commerce
is curtailed. Every man is a cullomer iu
proportion to his ability ; and as all parts
of a nation trade with each other, whate
ver affects any of the parts, mult necessa
rily communicate to the whole.
As one of the houses of the EngliiTi
parliament is, in a great measure, made
up of elections from those corporations ;
and as it is unnatural that a pure flream
should flow from a foul fountain, its vices
are but a continuation of the vipes of its
origin. A man of moral honor and good
political principles, cannot submit to the
mean drudgery and difgraceful arts, by
which such elections are carried. To b?
a fuccefsful candidate, he mud be defli
tute of the qualities that constitute a just
leg';flator ■. and being thus disciplined to corrup
tion by the mode of entering into parliament, it
is not to beexpe&ed that the representative faoulJ
be better than the man.tor the National gazette.
i
TO THE PRINTER.
As you have published several ex'traib from 1
the New-York papers, refpe4ting the (
eleition forgovernor,andasfoine ofthofe .
Cxtraits relate to the conduit of the com
mittee appointed to canvals the votes,
you are re> piefted to publilh the following
circumfta ices, to prevent the readers 0}
your, or any other paper, forming erro- '
neou.i opinions by having only seen and j
■considered one fidp of the question.
IN the New York Journal of the 16th ult. 1
the builnefs of this election is fairly laid |
open and explained, particularly of Otfego ,
county, and it clearly appears that instead
ofthe privileges of freemen having been vi
olated and their fufFra3.es discarded, " for I
want of inere/orm. to answer sinister mo- |
lives," as has been asserted by a junto in 1
that slate ; the fails will convince every ra- .
tional reflective inind that these privileges, ;
so much valued and esteemed, as the birth
rights of freemen, have been-infringed and i
perverted by fotne of that very junto, whose 1
conduit will fta'n them with perpetual in
famy. The fails are simply these, that un
due influence towards the weak, threats
towards the debtor, and impositions upon
the ignorant, have been grofi ly praitifed by
certain lead ng characters in the county of
Otfego, to gratify private resentment, and
if pofiible, to answer completely the purpo
se, of party. In order to prove these fails,
a firing of affidavits is subjoined, which al
though too voluminous for one day's pub
lication, may be fuminoned up in the fol
lowing order :
ill. An aiiidavit of James Butterfield, a
collector of taxes in said county, dating,
that he received from Jacob Morris, super
visor, a b ;ok ei'timating the value of pro
perty, real and personal, apportioning the
ta ;es, &c. —that the whole number of tax
able persons wa; 521, of whom only 18 per
sons were rated as being worth icol. and
upwards, and no more than tweuty-feven
persons whole real or personal estates
amounted to-iool. although the deponent
being present at the closing of the poll,
heard that upwards of ;oo persons had vo
te 1 at the said poll for governor and lieute
nant governor.
2d. William Garrett, one of the clerks
cl the eleition swears that 527 votes were
taken.
3d. John Mayall, an ancient inhabitant
ami afleflbr for the town of Otl'ego last year,
a-;d several years previous thereto, having
been present at the eleition, did fee many
persons voting for.governor and lieutenant
governor, who were- not entitled by law so
to do— t.iat he informed the infpeitors,who
a Iked him why ht did not challenge them ?
He replied, that it was their duty—that fifty
vojed on that day which he attended, of
whom not more than nine or ten were
qualified.
4th. Phinehas Hill, atranfient person and
under the age prescribed by law, swears .
that he went to said eleition, in order to
make an experiment with the infpeitors,
and knowing that he had no right to vote
for governor, &c. But that Richard R.
Smith, late fheriffaud supervisor for said
town of Otfego, who knew the deponent
to be difqualified as aforefaid, took hold of
him by the arm, and endeavored to make
him vote—that the depdnent then declared
he feared the coufequences ; but that Smith
said he would be his security from all harm,
whereupon the deponent tlid give in his
ballot.
s'h- John Cally fawfifty persons deliver
in ballots on the 28th of April, of whom
not more than ten were qualified. He in
formed the infpeitors, and said it was their
duty to challenge the votes; to which the
infpeitors replied, that the law was altered,
and that William Cooper, firft judge of Ot
fego county had told them, that every per
son who was a resident, and had paid taxes,
might vo'e at that eleition ; that the depo
nent challenged the vote of one John Hard
grove, but that William Cooper took hold
of him the deponent by the breast, and
drove him away from the table.
6th. Benajah Church, deposed, that on
the 27th day of April, he saw William
Cooper take the vote of a young man, who
informed the deponent that he was under
a.-.i: : he aifo saw Cooper lay hold of seve
ral persons who were not entitled to vote,
and oblige them to give in their ballots.
-tli. Jehiel Jackson, swears, that the
fa ts contained in the foregoing are true,
but that fearing leaf! Cooper might injure
his father, who is indebted to him, he da
red not come forward to make a particu
lar affidavit.
Bth. Andrew Cannon, swears, that Wil
liam Cooper declared he had heard that the
deponent came there to challenge votes—
and said, if he attempted it, he would fend
him to jail, and /hewed him a mittimus
ready written for that purpose.
9- 'i- James Abbey—under age—swears that
R. R. Smith, late flier iff, forced him to
vote, although the deponent told him he
wa; difqualified. '
loth. Adolphus Wabradt, swears he was
present when judge Cooper threatened Ja
cob G Fonda, that if he the said Fonda did
nor fubferibe a certain paper refpeiting an
affidavit taken by Fond:;, he (Cooper)would !
line fatisfaclion, if it ihould coll him
3,0001.
nth. Demih M'CaJfaty, April 27, was
seized by judge.Cooper, and obliged to vote,
although a transient person, and 110 way en
titled.
t2th. John Hardgrove, swears that judge
Cooper took hold of his the deponent's arm,
led him to the window, and put a ballot in
to his hand against his will, which he obliged
him to give in.
13th. JcfephWhitford, saw judge Cooper
draw in several tranlient persons who, witE
great reluitance, were induced to give in
ballots". Cooper also declared, that if he
heard any person speak in favor of governor
Clinton, he would take a fire-brand and
put fire to his barn. Cooper likewile threat
ened the deponent.
Having so far ilated this scene of open
villainy, which is not equalled by even Of
borne's conduit in Georgia, I might here
produce letters written by Cooper to his
friends, for corrupt purposes; and which
are at once the criterion of his scholar/hip
and intcgi itv.
After pending the foregoing summary,
it will scarcely be necelfary to submit the
determination to the public, whether the
votes of Otfego county did not meet the
fate they justly merited.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Mr. Freneau,
I HAVE long been disgusted by a mode
of expreflion, which I find is rapidly en
creafing, as well in public as in private writ
ings.
In the firft paragraph of your paper of
this day under the Philadelphia head, you
fay, " The Bank of the United States
HAs NOTIFIED the Stockholders, &c. u
Why not notified to Stockholders &c. ?
How would it read—" the bank of the
United States has made known the Stockhol
ders''' 1 ?
If the mode of expression complained of,
is not to be supported upon juftinable prin
ciples, you will not advocate it—if other
wise, I iliall be glad to fee your vindicati
on of it.—Attention to our language is ne
celfary, as well as to our government.
Your ftriitures upon the above would be
pleasing, to one of your friends and
A SUBSCRIBER.
July 4. 1792.
[To this it may be answered that the
phrase, " notijiedthe bank,'" or " notified any
thing else," may be considered as elliptical
and the preposition to, in this cafe, omitted
by the law of citllom—or, the word iiotficd
may be considered as fynonimous with ac
quainted, and in that cafe 110 man would thia':
of fuperadding the word to. Or, lastly, why
may not notified be considered as including
the wor"d to, as an implied preposition ? fq
" cere te notum or facere te certiorem, is a classical
Latin phrase, exaCtly equivalent to the t n
glifh word notified, or, to notify, and evidently
includes the preposition to ; as, I acquaint
you, or, I notify you.)
ELK.TON, July 4, 1792.
The memorable anniversary of our in
dependence, was celebrated by a number
of the refpeftable Inhabitants of this town,
affcmbled at the Franklin Inn, where an
elegant entertainment was provided for
the occafiori. During the feftivity the fol
lowing toasts were given under the firing of
cannon.
1. The Independence of America.
2. The virtuous and, firm Patriots who
declared our independence.
3. The United States.
4. The President of the United States.
5. The memory of the brave soldiers
who facriaced their lives for our Inde
pendence.
6. May the officers and soldiers of the
late American army, never feel distress.
7. The National Afiembly of France.
8. Permanency to French liberty.
9- l)e la Fayette.
10. The memory of Mirabeau.
11. The friends of freedom throughout
the globe.
12. The agriculture, manufaitures and
commerce of America.
13. The state of Maryland.
14. The rights of man.
15. The fair daughters of Columbia.
The feftive scene was conduited with the
utmofl decorum and closed in the evening
with the exhibition of fire works, display
ing a variety of emblematic figures, invent
ed by Mr. John Baptifte Allies, an ingeni
ous French gentleman of this place.
NEW-YORK, July 6.
IF the decree of the canvassers is resisted
by popular violence, it may eftablifli a dan
gerous precedent, subversive of all law and
good government. If any question, inter
esting to the Hates, should be determined
by the federal court, which should displease
a powerful party, the decree may be resist
ed with equal propriety. The present at
tempts, to refill legal authority, may prove
dangerous to the federal government : the
federalifts are now setting a bad example
to a refpeilable party of men, who are dis
contented with the perpetuity of the debt,
and the gambling introduced into a young a
gricultural country by chimericalfyflems) men,
who opposed the American revolution, and
who preferred the tranquil adminiltration
of an arbitrary fyfiem to the licences and ir
regularities of populaf opposition — men,
whowifhed, at any rate, to enjoy their estates
and cafe, and who diflinguifhed themselves
as friends to government, ought to recollect",
that opposition to Jaw and government on
doubtful occajions, weakens political authori
ty, and commits every political blessing of
law, property, and justice, to the violent
palHons, and irregular caprice, of the peo
ple.
If the habits of fubmiflion are destroyed
on trivial occajions, by the inflammatory elo
quence, and letters, of ambitious partizans,
the best members of society may lose their
attachment to republican governments,
which, in practice, seem too impotent to re
strain faction, and controul ambition. The
violences of the people, when incited by
chiefs, and when impelled by personal mo
tives, may produce a revolution in the pub
lic mind, and the distance between licenti
ousness and despotism is not great. If they
are iincere and uniform in their political
principles, they will not, 011 an occasion
so doubtful, appeal to the people : if they
continue their inconsistency, and persevere
to.nflamethepeople.it is not illiberal to
lufpeft these ialfe patriots of base designs.
When the proved enemies to republican forms
aflume, with new and violent zeal, t.'ie lan
guage of liberty, their treachery becomes fuf
pefted. It may be the object of these new
patriots to convulse the state, and to erect,
over the dlfgufted and harrafled people, a
government more congenial to their character
and principles.
At a refpeftable meeting of the Officers of
the late American army, the 4th of July,
1792, atthehoufe of Captain Baldwin,
of the city of New-York, i# confeqijence
of a public notification to this effett, and
by adjournment continued to the next
day.
Col. EBENEZER STEVENS, in the Chair
»
IT was resolved, That the services ren
dered by the army of the United States, al
though the public faith was thereto pledg
ed, remain imremunerated ; that the pub
lic engagement to the officers and soldiers
was for a certain sum in specie, so be paid
them for certain military services, to be
rendered by the said army ; that the United
States have in the most full and unequivo
cal manner acknowledged that those ser
vices have been faithfully performed by the
army ; that the demand for their services
has neither been discharged in specie or in
any property equivalent thereto; that
certificates given to the army being unsup
ported by funds, had no other value than
what public opinion (tamped 011 them.
It is therefore resolved, that a commit
tee be appointed to co-operate with such
committees, or agents, as are or may be
appointed by other states in a petition to
Congress at their next fellion. expressed de
cently, refpeftfully, and manly, for what
by the unalterable principles of justice re
mains yet their due.
Resolved, That Col. Ebenezer Stevens,
Col. Marinus Wiliett, Captain George
Leacraft, John F. Yifcher, l.aac Ledyard,
joleph Brow n and N. Laurens, be and are
hereby appointed our committee, who, or
a majority of them are authorised to pursue
such active measures, appoint such agent or
agents, as to them shall seem conducive to
promote the obje£t and produce the effect
of this our most reasonable claim.
ReJ'oived, That the above proceeding be
pubiifhed in two of the newfparers of this
city, by order of the meeting'. '
(-igned) EBENEZER STEVENS, Chairman,
(Signed) GEORGE LEACRAFr, Secretary,
On the 25th of June, the Brig Washing
ton, William Smilley, master, from Eden
ton, (N. C.) arrived off Ocracock barr ;
Capt. Smilley was informed by the pilot
there, that seven men and two boys had
landed there 011 the 20th, and the next day
hired a Pilot boat to carry them to Wash
ington, leaving the 'wo boys behind them.
Upon being questioned, the boys informed
the people that they had murdered the
Captainj. the mate, and the cabin boy, of the
Brig , and having attempted to scuttle
her left her, and also that they had left a
woman passenger on board :
Whereupon, Wallis, with a party of
militia, took a boat, puifued them, and
lodged most of them in Washington jail.
The veflel was loaded with tobacco, indi
go and rice, from Savannah, bound to
France.
On Monday the 45th June, the above
mentioned veflel was taken up in the Capes,
by a schooner and pilot boat, and was, on
Wednelday last fafely conducted into this
port, where she now is. The account the
woman gives is nearly ffcnilar to the above;
(lie fays—lhe saw them throw the Captain
overboard, and saw hiin afterwards astern,
in the sea, but does not know what became
of the mate, and the reft of the crew, that
she could not perceive any blood in any
part of the veflel, after was deserted,
that some exprefled a desire to destroy her,
the woman, while others cursed her, and
laid she might stay there and starve, and af
ter treating her in the most brutal manner,
left her to the mercy of the winds and sea.
%* For [ah at this Office., Sermons by
the Rev d Dr. William Linn, of N. York.
Price 5 /" 7 1-2. '
FOREIGN NEWS.
DUNKIRK, May i.
" Ail account is arrived, stating that the
French have been repulsed at Tournay.
The commanding officer, the Count de Dil
lon, led the French trdops into an ambus
cade, where were 15 pieces of cannon ;
about 400 were killed besides many wound
ed. They had him apprehended and tried
by a court martial, as knowing of the
scheme. He was hanged on a gibbet, and
burned half alive. The French troops were
6000 men. The remainder returned to
Lisle, from whence they went, which was
about 18 miles.
Ltjle, May 3. Four thousand French troopj
including three regiments of cavalry, led by
Count Dillon, went against Tournay, ex
pecting the gates of the town to be opened
to them, and that they should become mai
lers of the place without the lealt difficulty.
The garrison, who had been apprized of the
intentions of the F'rench, fix and thirty
hours before they attempted to put them in
execution, made a vigorous refinance ; up
on which the three regiments of French ca
valry, being suddenly f'e'ized with a panic,
galloped away to Lisle, where they spread
a report that their whole army had been
surrounded by thirty thousand Auftrians,
and three tholifand of them had been left
dead on the field. The next day the main
body, who had made good their retreat,
arrived, and upon the mufler, not
than fixy-one were fonnd to. be miffing,
twelve only of whom could be proved to
have been killed. The French troops, con
ceiving that their reception before Tour
nay had been owing to some treacherous
conduct on the part of their leader, seized
Count Dillon, cut off his head & legs, and
carried his trunk*o the Grand Place, Where
they burned it to allies. A French Abbe,
curate of St. Margaret's, who happened
accidentally to be palling this scene of (laugh
ter, ?id was fufpe&ed of having corres
ponded with the enemy, was also seized by
them, and facrificed upon the spot. They
afterwards murdered their chief engineer,
and two or three other officers, and roast
ed three German soldiers, whom they had
captured in their march. The next day,
those of their troops who had been taken
prisoners, returned to Lisle from Tournay,
having been released by the Auftrians, and
declared that they had been treated by their
vi£lors rather as friends and brethren, than
as enemies and opponents."
Brujjr.h, May 4. The loss of the French
at their attack of Tournay, was, two dra
goons and several horses killed, fgrtv fold! -
ers of different regiments taken prisoners,
iour pieces of artillery, some provisions,
baggage, arJ d implements for intrenching.
011 the fide of the Auftrians, there are none
either killed, wounded, or miffing. This
happened on the 29th of April. °On the
fame day another body of French troops en
tered the Austrian territory by Quievrain
who were opposed by 1800 Austrian infan
try, and 14 or 1500 cavalry, and were oblig
ed to retire with the iofs of 20 men kiiied
and several wounded. Thev halted at
Bouflur, Avhere they remained in fight of
the Auftrians. Ihe next day an adfion took
place, whichendedin the complete route
of the French who loft on this occasion 250
men killed, a considerable number taken
prisoners, and five picces of cannon left in
the hands of the enemy. Ihe main body
of the French then retreated over the fron
tier line towards Valenciennes.
• May 10. Large bodies of French
troops are on the march to reinforce their
northern army. La Fayette's army is dai
ly receiving reinforcements. He seems by
L.s motions to be meditating some impor
tant attack, As to the troops hostile to
F 1 ance, it is computed, that the number of
troops in the Netherlands from Luxem
bourg to the sea, from the several German
powers, amounts to sixty thousand. T n
order to whet the appetites of these soldi
ers, and encourage them, all the plunder
taken from the French is to be distributed
amongst them-
An attack, limilar to that on Tournay,
was made on Mons, also on the 29th of
April, by M. de Biron, at the head of 8 or
9000 French troops. The place had been
reported to be badly fortified and its inha
bitants difaffefted, so that an easy conquest
was expected. Six or seven thousand Auf
trians, however, werefound to be in de
fence of it, and after a very little firing the
Queen's regiment, which was in the centre
of the French army, gave way, and the com
mander in chief fled. Reports fay that be
tween 7 and 800 of the French were killed
by the Austrian cavalry, who pursued them,
among whom was a foil of Gen. Rocham
beau.
London, May 15. The brother of the tin-'
fortunate Count Dillon, who was hacked to
pieces by his own soldiers, has petitioned
the National Aflembly, for what redress is
in their power. They have determined to
employ the most effe&ual means for the
discovery and punifhmtnt of the aflaffins.
The king of Prussia has issued orders for
70,000 men to march, of which he was him
felf to take the command. The advanced
guard, when these accounts came away,
was already in motion. Their object is
said to be a junition with the Austrian ./ar
mies, to combine in an attack upon France.
4. considerable force is arming at Brest,
to protest the French trade in the MediterParis, May r7. M. de Grave, mini ft er at
war, has re iied. The following is a
tranfUtion ot his letter, on this occailon, to
the king:
u Si p°e, Paris, May 8.
' In the present difficulties of the"king
dom, nothing cou'd induce me to quit the
place w huh I hold from your maieft v's con
fidence', bat my power? being exhaufte4, and
my conviction thaf I can'not be iifj.'ul in the
ministry, your majesty, I hope, does'juftice
to the m itives that have guided my condu -1
hitherto, as well as to those under which I
now act. For me. Sire, I carry with me a
profound recollection of your virtues ; and
I regret that all the citizens nave not had,
like myfelf, an opportunity of witneffinc
your rrfajefty's tender solicitude for, and at
tachment to the glory, th? happiness, and
the liberty of the nation.
(Signed) GRAVE."
He is to be succeeded by Mr. Servan,
Colonel of the 1 c4tli regiment.
A person has offered to the National As
fembly the difcpvetv of a balloon, that will
carry joo men, farnifhed with 4S pounders.
He has been referred to the committee of
arts.
The new government of Sweden has re
solved to declare to all the courts of Europe
that Sweden adopts a pacific fvftem.
The conduct ot the Count D'Aranda, firft
minister at the court of Spain, is more and
more favorable to the French. Repara-
lion is now made to such of them a. had
been injured by the former minister.
On the Bth of May, in the National Af
fenibly, an address wasvoted entitled, "The
fteprefentativesof the French people to the
citizens armed for the defence of their
country. It recommends difc'pline in verv
carneft terms to the soldiers, and add
" For ourselves, unshaken in the mid ft o'
political tempests we will be on the watch
against all plots and all the enemies of the
«iripire. The world lhall fee whether we
are the reprefentytives of a great people, or
the timid fubiefts of some of the ki vr< <
Europe. We have fvvorn never to capitu
late with pride or tyranny. We will keep
our oath—Death, death, or victory and
equality."
Ordered, That the executive power in
form the a {Terribly, every ei"ht days, of the
enquiries made into the afjaffiiations com
mitted at I.isle, of general Dillon and other
officers.
Nine person" are already in cnftody, on
account of the aflaflination of Coijnt Dil
lon.
On the 13th inft. the minister of war in
formed the aflembly that the whole regi
ment de Saxe, had deferred and ;one over
to the enemy. Three f madrons o ' the re
giment of de Barcina li ve also deferred.
The soldiers h'd taken w 1 them two gui
dons (standard-bearers) one of whom was
retaken.
Alarming accounts are continually re
ceived of the number of troops that conti
nue to desert. Certain information is re
ceived that 80,000 men. of the enemy, are
daily expected intheneigbourhood of May -
ence, who mean, ifpoflible, to force their
way into the centre of France, anjl there fix
their headquarters.
The aflembly decreed vefterday that the
three hundred million of afEguats lately is
sued shall be exclusively appropriated to
defray the expenses of the w. r.
M. de Rochambeau has religned hi-com
mand, and i succeeded by "1. de Eftaing
Cablencz The Count d'Artois is prepar
ing his camp equipage, and the prince de
Conde will shortly make his appearance at
the head of go,oco of his countrymen.
The Pairs au Royaume and the Parlia
mentarrans have their rendezvous at Cob
lentz, where the princes have ordered a con
vocation of the Pairs, whose intention is to
put the King under Cur:.;e!le fas incapable
of managing the affairs of the kingdom) and
to appoint Monsieur Regent of "the king
dom and Count d'Artois GeneralPffimo ox
the forces.
Thefollowing are the refolvtions entered into by a
committee of the inhabitants ofCha'leJlon, on the
II of jvnr ult. relative to the itn ortation of ne
groes, so- fa.le,from other States. ]
WHEREAS a practice of (hi.: > ; ng to th's
state forfale, from the other state", such of
their slaves as have - been condemned for
crimes, or have been o'herwife guilty o:
offences, has for many vears prevailed and
such a practice cannot fail to be productive
of pernicious eflv - to th; l state ; and
whereas it is imioffib'e to discriminate in
cafe of fiaves so sent for file whether or
not they are of the above.description :
lft. Therefore resolved, as the unani
mous opinion of this meeting, that the i'n
trodufton into this state of slaves transpor
ted or sent forfale, fron) the other states,
-ought no longer to be permitted—and that
the citizens of this state will be juftifiable
inoppofing such introduction.
sdly. Resolved unanimouflv, and we do
bind ourselves, to oppose, to the utraoft of
our ability, the introduction of all such
slaves sent for sale into this state, and we
pledge our most sacred honor, each to the
other, not to fell, purchase, possess or em
ploy such slaves. or to have any iiatercourfe
whatever, with any person who may intro
duce such slaves into this state, or fell, pur
chase or employ them when imported.
3dly. Resolved urianimoufly, that if any
©aptain or commander of any veflel, com-
ing into this port, shall have orf board his
veirel, any slaves transported from any
other (late on account of any offence tliere
committed, or sent for sale, ami shall, after
being furnifhed with a copy of the forego
ing resolutions, offer for sale, within this
state, any such flaveor slaves, the faidcap
tain or commander shall be deemed inimi
cal to the tranquility of thisftale, and (hall
be dealt with accordingly.
4thly. Resolved, that a committee be ap
pointed to prepare a petition io the legisla
ture of this date, praying that a law under
certain modifications may be palled, making
it highly penal for any person to introduce
into this state, (laverffoni other states.
sthly. Resolved that thepilots of the bar
of Charleston, be fnrriifhed with copiesof
these resolutions, and that they be required
to deliver to any captain of any veflel
bound to this state from any of the other
states, having slaves on board, a copy of
these resolutions.
6thfy. Resolved unanimously, that a
(landing committee of nine citizens be ap
pointed, who lhall fuperiuti n 1 the execu
tion o $th e foregoing resolution, and who
on the arrival in this state of any vclfel
from any of the other states, with negroes
or other slaves, shall furnifh the captain with
a copy of the foregoing resolutions, and
111 at in cafe he shall not give fatisfaftory as
surances to the committee, for the fafe
keeping and transportation without delay
out of this state of such negroe or negroes,
ilave or slaves, that the committee iliail
forthwith publish the name of such captain
and of his veflel, and the place where flie
liein order that the citizens may take such
meatures a< they,may deem most expedient
for the public fafety.
7 thly. Resolved, that it be the duty of the
committee to have a fufficient number of
the foregoing resolutions (truck off", and
tranfihit the fame to the different parifhe
and counties in (his state, and invite the
citizens thereof to join with the citizens as
sembled at this meeting, in the foregoing
•eTolutions ; and that they invite the citi
zens ot North-Carolina and Georgia to con
cur in fimilarmeasures.
Bthly. Resolved, that filch negroes of the
>bove description, as may be no v in this
•late, unfold, are deemed and considered
is comprehended within the spirit and in
tention of tiie above resolutions.
9thly. Resolved, that it is hereby recom
mended to the city council to eftablilh a
more effectual nightly guard.
lothlV. Resolved, that the committee be
authorised to convene the citizens of
Charleflon, whenever they (hall think there
is fufficient cause.
JACOB READ, Chairman.
PHILADELPHIA.
July 11, 1-92.
Trie Pilot boat Yo;.k. performed her
European voyage in twelve weeks— ihe
Mad 25 days paifage from Smdy Hook to
Liverpool, and was 35 days on her return.
The object for which '■ be failed is (aid to
navebeen answered by her arrival in Bri
tain previous to the packet, that failed some
days before her.
Concurrent accounts of Frcnch alf.irs, receiv
ed by the lafl vessels fiom England, repre
f*nt the patriotic troops of t at kingdom as great
V defe&ive in military difciphne, and impa
tient of any kind of fuhordinaiion. This opi
nion, in England, has probably taken us rife from
the partial ill success lome bodies of the ration
al foices have met with in their earlv, a. duous,
and impetuous attempts, where they had to cone
with some of the bed difciphned troops in the
world, the soldiers of the Austrian armies. We
impatiently expefl intelligence of these matters
dircßly from France, which no doubt will fct
maav matters relating to that kingdom in a very
d 'flercnt light from what they are represented to
be in several of the Englilh papers.
European accounts, lately come to hand, in
addition to those u ider our foreign heads, are
briely as follow:—The coronation of Francis
[fl, as Emfieror of Germany, was to take place
on the 6th of July—the forces of ihe combined
despotic poweis to ast against France, were com
puted at 250,000 men—Sentence was palled
a ainft Ankeiftrom, the aflaffin of the King of
Sweden, on April i&h, as follows : he is Ad
judged to be infamous, and unworthy of anv Sf
the rights of a citizen: to be put into the pillory
for two hours in the forenoon for three successive
days, ani whipt with fix pair of rods—that his
head shall be fevered from his body, his right
hand be cut off, and his thus mutilated body to
be impailed (hung on iron hoolts) and an inferip
tion to be placed on the pillory to this effect,
John Jacob Anktrjlrom, ajfujjin of the Kino. He
was pilloried and flogged on the 19th of April
for the firft time.—The National Aflembly had
ordered a levy of thirty-one battalions of gu'-rds
—Stores of grain were laid up at Valenci
ennes alone for 135,000 men for 16 months—
36,000 spare mufquets in the arsenal —a de
cree had been passed, dire Sing the mod libe
ral treatment to prisoners ot war Mr. Pitt,
had given assurances of the neutrality of G
Britain- The Duke of Wertemberg and the
elector of Bavaria had avowed then- inten
tion to continue only on the defenfive, and
Sweden entirely neuter—M. de la Fayette
had taken the Abbey of Orval, a rich maga
zine of arms and money helonging to the
emigrants, after a fkirmifhin which 32 Aul
ti ians and fix French fell—Thurlow, lord
chancellor of England had been difmiflet
om his office, in coafequence of an avow
<d hofti'ity to Mr. Pitt's tneifure —Lord
' -ornvvallis had taken the forcrefsof Nundy
•'Jurrgum, the garrifo.i however ina.'lly ef
c®iied—his lordtbip was expected to be be
; >re Seringa,oatam about the 25th of Jana
■y— rheriotsat Birmingham on or about
the 2 lit of May were qUelled by tlie inilita
ry, who after an appointed hour cut and
wounded all they met or overtook in the
streets.
Frequent complaints are made in the eaflern
counties of ?/larylaud of their run-a-way slaves
b ing harboured bv Certain philanthropic people
in the (late of Delaware A gentleman in Ma
ryland who lias frequently fuffered by desertions
of this kind, and has had lljves concealed for
years together in the last mentioned Date, pub
licly advertises in the Delaware Gazette, that to
ease the consciences of thole who execrate this
kind of property, he will dispose of his slaves to
those who wilh to have them fct free, at three
ourths of their real value, to be ellimated by
men oi judgment and impartiality.
By a vcflel that left Cnpe Francois the 25th
ol June, we learn, that the negroes* were ftili
de ; oying with as much fury as eVer, and no
pxofpe6ls of pe.'.ce being made with them. The
governor and several principal office s gone
to St. Marks, with a view to bring about a ne
goriaiion with the niulattoes, but the event was
unknown.
Accounts from South-Carolina and Georgia,
with rejard to their prospeCt of the enfuino
crops, are very unfavorable, no rains of any con
sequence having fallen in the more eallein dif
tricls of those Dates since the beginningof April
at which time the low country was, in a manner,
inundated. The Indigo plantations, when the
lall vcffels failed, were almost despaired of, foi
the next crop, and the rice swamps promised noi
much better.
Ext r aß of a letter fxom an American who has ben
some time in Europe, and is lately returned, to hi.
own country.
•• Having concluded the private objects
of this letter, permit me, my dear friend,
to touch on public matters, and to expref
the extreme lurprife and mortification pro
by some changes in our situation.
which I never could have apprehended at
the time of my departure. Previous to
that date, it had been the proud and pleas
ing hope of every true American, that his
country was to be an example to the world
oi all the dignified virtues of republican
Simplicity, that It was to be the asylum ol
merit and liberty, persecuted in almost eve
ry other part of the globe, that it was' en
tering a career of glorious improvements ir
the ihade of peace, which would be the pro
p \r sequel to its fplendtfl ajid. patriotic «t
---chievements in the field of war, that it wa
to be diftinguiflied by the unrivalled blef
lings of an untainted and artless govern
ment, of a spirit of legislation equally fret
from mysterious concealment, an artificia
management, and a servile imitation, and ol
a ftyie of manners congruous to the purity
offuch a government, and to the honefl
imphcity of such a code of laws. Theft
were the sentiments which, you well know
animated us to the boldest conflicts, theft
were the sentiments which supported u:
under the severest calamities; and were noi
heft the sentiments aifo which confecratec
the motive and enforced the adoption 01
our present national government ? How
soon, ala- ! have clouds been thiown ovei
these bright and glorious Whc
could have believed that, in so short a space
of time, an aitive and influential factior
could havf been formed (pardon a harfn
nefs of language, which my indigpatiori wil
not permit me to (often) which by its doc
trines and ei deavors. would reverse om
sublime policy and flattering hopes, anc
make us retrograde in every path that lead:
to ufeful reformations, and a just provifioi
ror equal rights and general happiness. Yot
cannot, my friend, dojuftice either to mi
feelings or my reflections, without making
my situation in all refpe£ts your own. 1
have feeu in Europe kings tottering on theii
thrones, and nobles tumbling from the
haughty elevation from whence they have
for ages insulted the rights of their injured
fellow citizens, and the firft tidings that a
waitmv arrival in my own country are the
attempts; of her degenerate sons to write and
talk and intrigue those antiquated usurpers
into fafhion. In Europe I have seen the
moll enlightened of its nations sick at length
of their enormous and perpetual taxes, and
ftrucrgling to get rid of them. Here, I find
that we are pursuing the mad policy of in
creasing- and perpetuating both. In Europe
t.iey are banilhing monopolies, and lotteries,
and all other tyrannical and gambling con
trivances, as fact as their crepuscular light
and corrupt governments will permit.
Here, in the meridian blaze of day, and in
the very childhood of our government, we
fee these pefcilent institutions patronized
and pampered, as if they were the nurse of
V'rtuc and the food of liberty. In Europe,
it is the effort of every pretender to politi -
cal science, to unshackle commerce from its
exccflive burdens and its galling restrictions:
Heie, we appear to be overloading it with
duties, and forcing ourselves into all the
impolitic regulations which oppress the ho
ned: merchant, impose on the tributary ton
(timer, disappoint the exchequer of its reve
nue, and generate frauds and forgeries and
perjuries, as liumberlefs as they are cala-
mitous. InFurope, it is considered as of
all things most delirableto fimplify and re
lax the general ijrftein of tlleir taxation,
and more particularly to diminift the vexa
tions resulting from the nature and number
of their excises. Here we are alreidy
pufliing them into the rt cefi'es of domestic
employment, and it i, not concealed, as I
am informed, that the polity is to be syste
matically followe ! up as fait as other articles
of manufacture artfefficiently matur d for the f ur
pcfe. In Europe, I have heard amo ; all
the molt enlightened statesmen and founded
patriots, but one opinion on the expediency
of dlminifhing the interference of govern
ment, with what rightfully and properlv be
longs to individual management. Here,! find
is an eagernt fs and laborioufncl" beyond ex
ample to multiply and complicate the ob
jects of government, to extend the grafp'iig
and griping hand of power to every pi \ ate
pursuit and every indi. dual occupation.
In Europe, my friend, be allured, that the
natidns infpirtd with the dignity of human
nature, and inftruited in the rights of men
are riiin\ from the pro Orate condition to
which they have been heretofore chained by
the ancient tyranny of feudal barbarism,
and the rapacious tunning of modern fif
cality : and car. any American, my friend,
who has seen the long benighted a:.d deba
sed nations of the old world preparint." to
cast olf the usurpations of kings and nobles ;
and to purge away the political cor ruptions,
the vices, thefoiiies, and the error,., which
have for ages opprefled the m ; can an Ame
rican, I fay, who has seen ether countries
beginning to knock oft'their galling chains,
behold an attempt to pick them up and faf
ten them on lfis own, with lei's Ldgnation
than I have exprefled ? —No, my frier,d, it
is impofiibie. I know that y, u \\id believe
so ; that rou think on the fubjecV as 1 do.
But I mull tell you at the fame time, that
you cannot feci as I feel \ unlef }or will
cross the Atlantic, and fee what I have seen."
Extratt of a letter from Jamaica.
" From Poit-au Punce vvc learn, the number
of rebels that have been taken piifoneis and
killed amounts to 3,500 , of thole 50 have dif
fered by the hands ot the executioner ; two of
them (a mulatto and a negro) who arc f'aid to
have murdered fevcral white people, who wcie
broken on the wheel in the Place d'Aimes," in
the afternoon of the 28th September:—The mu
latto expued on receiving tin thud {lioke upon
the breast, his aims being si 10 broken ill
ti-o places. The ticgro survived the coup de"
grace upwards of forty minutes, and feemcd'fen
(ible of his situation, when he was ftrangied in
mercy by some of the fpeftators with the thong
of a whip. The negro received the full Hioke
upon his limbs v ithout uitfting a groan, it it
not quiie alcertained how many white people
have been murdered by the rcvolters. They
Inppofe three bundled, but it is reported, irv-ir.y
of them were put to death with extreme cruelty .
" Amidll this scene of horror and carnage, it
is pleasing to relate an instance of negio fidelity
and attachment equally wonderful and affeciing.
Mr. and Madame Baiilon, their daughter, and
son-in-law, and two white servants, redding on
a mountain plantation about thirty milts bom
the Cape, were apprized of the revolt by one of
their own Haves, who was hin.felf in the coulpi
racy ; and having no other n,cans of draping,
were by him Conducted into a neighboring wood'.
Afterwards the negro joined die revolters. He
found means, however, the following ni»ht to
brim, provisions.
" The second night he returned with a fiedi
supply of provisions, but informed them it would
be out of his power ogive them any further af
fiflar.ee. After that they heard nothing moie of
him for three days at the end of w! ich time
became again,and directed them how to in.ake
their way to t'he river which led to Port M;' :iol,
w here he laid they would find a canoe. They
followed hisdireflions, found the canoe, and got
lafe into it, but were oveifet by the rapidi.y'of
the current, and compelled to return' to the
mountain. The negro, anxious for their lately,
again found out their retreat, and directing them
to march 10 a broader part of the river, where
he aflurcd them they would find a be at, said.it
was the lall effort he could make to save them.
1 hey went accordingly, but not finding the boat,
gave them ft Ives up for 1011, when the faithful,
generous n gro again appeared like their guar
dian angel; with liijn pigeons, poul
try and biea-l, and conducing the family by
flow marches in the night atong the banks of ths
river, till they were within reach of the wharf al
Port Maigol ar.d out of danger, took bis leave
of tbem forever, and returned to join the rebels.
They were in this terrible situation in the wocdi
nineteen nights."
METEOROLCGICAL OBSERVATIONS,
July, 1792.
D. 11. Bar. 1 Ther.'Wind. jll'eetk
Wednfdcy, 4. 6 29. 9 65 N. E. Rain.
- a - 9 t 'i 65 do. do.
Thufday, j. ' 30. 1 59 Is.\\ . Fair. ~
2 do. <io.
Friday,. 6, 6 30. 27/ (o Fair ~
2 HQ- 3 7* N- E do.
Saturday, 7.6 30.24 < 4 Calm ' CfoudT.
. £ | 30. 1 - 7 j do.
Sunday, B. 6; 30. 4 t 4 C ,udy.
a! go- o so j do j do.
Monday, 9. (\ 29. 8 -.5 's.s.w \Clciidy,
*j gsj 85 j W \Fair.
Tuesday, 10. 6j 29. v| 73 ;N W. j F*atr?
"\ 3°- of ¥9 Jw.N'.w j do.authentic.,
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft Sefiion, begun and held at the c-.ty of
Philadelphia, in the State of Pcr.nfylvania,
on Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thottfand ieven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT to provide for a Copper Coinage.
BE it enaßed by the Senate and Houft
of Reprefentaiivei of the united State<
of America in Congress ajferjibl d, I hat the
director of the mint, with the approbation
of (he President of the United State?, be
authorized to contr?.& for sud purchafo
a quantity of copper, r,at exceeding one
hundred and fifty tons, an 1 that the said
dire&or, as soon as tht* needful prepara
tions f;.ai> be made, cause the copper by
him purchased to be coined at the min.
into cents and half cents pursuant tc
" the ast eftablilbing a mint,?.! d re
gul ting the coins of the United States;'
r.nd that ihe said cents and half cents,
as they (hall be coined, be p: id into th<
treasury of the United States, thence tc
iffiie into ci culation.
And be it further enaßcd, That after the
r;:pir:ition of fix calendar months from tlu
time when there ftiall have been paid intc
tiie treasury by the said direflor, in cents
and half cents, not less than fifty
thousand dollais, which time (hall forth
with be announced by the treasurer in at
h-afi two gazettes or news-papers publilh
cd at the feat of the government of the
United States, for the time being, no cop
t■ v coins or pieccs whatsoever, except t t
said cents and half cents, (hall pass current
as money, or (hall be paid, or offered to bt
paid or received in payment for any debt,
demand, claim, matter or thing whatfoe
ver ; and all copper coins or pieces, except
the said cents and half cents, which (hal
be paid or offered to be paid or received ii
payment contiary to the prohibition afore
said, (hall be forfeited, and every per on by
whom any of them (hall ha\e been fc
paid or offered to be paid or receivec
in payment, (hall also forfeit the furr
of ten dollais, and the said forfeiture
and penalty fnall and may be recover
ed with cods of suit for the benefit
of ;'i*y person or persons by whom infor
nation of the incurring thereof ihail have
been given.
A- r >ved by the Pi: Is I den T, May Sth, 179 2 "
Extrafl of a letter from the learned and il■
ivjirious Priticefs of Dafchkaw, Privy
Counsellor to the Empress, Pre/ident of the
Imperial Academy of sciences at St. Pe
ter four gb, &c. &C.
" Sir,
"YOURletter dated loth of Novem
ber lad, I received some days ago, and by
as fpcedy an answer as poffiblc, I wilh
to flitw you the phafure I felt to fee the
zeal and ardour, witfrwhich you are pur.
suing the further improvement of a fci
cnce so ufeful to mankind. It will al
ways give me a peculiar fatijfaflion, if I
can contribute something towards the ad
vancing so interesting a branch of know
ledge. For this reason I will endeavor to
answer to the queflions proposed in your
letter, in as (atisfaftory a manner as lies in
my power.
In the Nov! Commentarii Academ'iac Pe
tropolitanae you will find a set of very in
teresting observations, that have been
made for a long series of years in Rufiia,
concerning the declination and inclination
of the magnetic needle. Being uncertain
whe her you have at hand these.commen
taries, I intend to order those observations
to beextrafted for your use. But as they
would be too voluminous to be sent with
the post, I have put it off till another op
portunity : wherefore I desire you to af
iign, in your next letter, somebody here
at St. Peterlburgh, to whom I may deliv
er a copy of these observations, as well as
any thing else which may serve your pur
pcfes and enquiries. However, for the
present, I hope the following notice will
not be diiagreeable, to you : I. Obferva
liones circa deciinationem el inclinilionem
magneticam, Peckini, Petropoli et in variis
Siberiae Iccis faciae, recenfente Bratinio.f Nc
in Commentarii Tom V. pag. 396.) 2
Expofitio declinationis magneticae in Imperio
Ruflico ejufque vicinia obfervatae, by Mr.
Kraft. [Nov. Comment. Tom XVII. pag.
c 95)
I iubfcnbe heartily to your wish, that
p. series of observations might be made at
St. Peterfburgh. concerning the tide-wa
ters ; and the fame idea was, a year ago,
already an objed of debate in our academy,
though not in the fame view.
Vineta, on the coafl of Pomerania,
was, some centuries ago, one of the moil
flourifhing mercantile towns in Germany ;
at present its ruins which are not seldom
to be seen under water, are the ruin cf
many a fn'p. It is universally believed,
that the fame revolution, by which Vineta
isms overwhelmed, fevered also, the Isle of
ilr-cn from the German continent, of
ivhich it was, till that time, the northern
mod point.
The author of that memoir, in the Me
moires de I'academic royale des fctences dt
Berlin, is the famous Leonard Euler, fa
ther to him who is now secretary to our
academy.
The copy of your ingenious work, you
have sent to Sir Richard Sutherland, is not
arrived. That gentleman himfelf being
dead, some months ago, I sent to his comp'
loir ; but there 110 one knew any thing of
your papers. I wish, therefore, you might
nave here or in London, a trudy commil
fary, through whose hands will fafely pt'.fs
every thing that (hall, hereafter, be sent
between us both. You will oblige me ve
ry much by giving me some notice, whe
ther the books are arrived I sent to the
philosophical society at Philadelphia, of
■.vhich I have the honor to be a member.
The printed paper, annexed to your last
etter, concerning the cause of gravitation,
is now circulating amonglt the fellows 01
□ur academy, and I hope will give them
110 less pleasure than your former disserta
tion on the magneiical poles.
Each new flep made by you towards
the improvement o! learning, will give me
\ peculiar fatisfaftion , and it is with the
treated elteem that I am your wet!
of DASCHKAW.
S/. Peterfburgh, the 31ft Jan. 1792.
Mr. John Churchman*,
North-America."
A Remarkable Circwnfiance of Escape.
THE latter part of November, a imal
Schooner Tailed from }lho.ic-!fland v. ith a
cargo, bound to Georgia. Being in lat. 40®. 3-
v Hook by account ring abo'jt thirty-'>>
leagues weft, but not perhaps in reality quite I
.ar to the caltward as tiiey imag'n.i, they we r t
over taken by a severe gale at E. N. E- and Eafi
Finding ii impradTicable to lay-to, v.itnour . .
Tijft imminent danger ot periih'ng, they v.ert
ompelled to put before the wind and sea, ana 1
his condition made their way weltward (the or.:,
rcfource lelt them) without carrying an;
aii. A 1 ing dreary night came on, and it tn:
torm continued thus violent till morning, t
ooked tor no better fate than (if they efcapec be.
n (wallowed up by the mountainous waves thai
!ulfueJ them) t-> be stranded on the coast of J tr
ey or Long-llland, and mod probably perish in th:
breakers. By fume neglefl in securing the deep
en lead, it was carried overboard by the break oi
3 sea with the line, and loft, so that they wer<
jrcvented from all chance of founding, to knov
Ahen they neared the ISnd. In this fixation t:.cj
:oi.tinued fcudciing in one of the dai keft nights tha
;ver gloomed upon the face of the ocean, purluev
-J, hail, rain, a hurricane of wind ; ana every mo
-nent anticipating deftrudtion. Anout midnight,
;o their inexpreflible surprize, after having foi
ome time peiceived the sea shorter than before,
unning wilder, and more like breakers, they all a!
mce found thcnafelvcs in water perfe&ly smooth
ho' the (torra continued as violent as ever. Ha
ng luffed theveffel up to the wind, they cast 0-
/er the hand-lead, and had only nine f -ec found
ngs, but no appearance of land, on account of
hick haze that enveloped them. They then le
;o an anchor ana waited the leturn of day. The
norning discovered to tnem the land on all fides,
ind their vefl'el in a river, behind a point of beach.
It feerns they had passed over the bar of Shrtwf.
)ury river in fafety, about the time of high wa
er, which had fuelled three or four feet higher
han usual in consequence of the storm. Ha>
rotchance thus directed them, or had the vr-ffel
;one two hundred yards on either fide, north 01
juth of the aflual course ihe made, it may be rea
"onably said their entire loss would have been cer
:ain and inevitable.
A FARM FOR SALE.
rj-Q be fold cheap for cajh, a Term situated or th
■L Banks, and on the north fide of the river Rar
'an in the ft ate of New -J e>fey j eight miles from the
city of New-Brunfwic, and one from the town oj
Bound Brook, containing 191 acres, find 40 acres
ibout a mile diflant apportioned to it for woodland:
jn this farm has lately been ereftcd a neat ane
convenient house 28 by 34 feet neatly fnijhrd
i,7i/t on a cellar the ctimerjions of the Houje, with
a kitchen forming awing 24 by 18 feet completed :
asres of it being meadow renders this place tru
ly valuable j the healthy airy and pleasant fituatia:
flakes it an agreeable feat for a gentleman ■' the
meadow ar.d fertility of theJoil, an objcEi for th
farmer, & its by the mojl wealthy
and opulent farmers in the flats, a ucy t !-?ib, ■
ft and for a fore, the ride to and from BrunJ-vic,
on either fide of the river, is delightful : for the
price apply to the editor of the National Gazette.
£w ■ aw.
Prices Current at Philadelphia.
[Dollars equal to 100 cents.
ASHES Pot per ton 90 Dols. to 100
A Hies Pearl 137 — — *4®*
{Jacon flitches per lb. 7 cents.
Bacon (boulders — 6 do.
iJces wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27.
Drandy, C miac, pergl. 1 do). 20 c k to 1 d. 33 c
Brandy, common, 1 dol. 26 c.
Butler, in kegs, per lb. 9 c. to 10.
Coals, per buihel, 20 c. to 22
Coffee, per lb. 18 to 20 c.
Cotton, per lb. 26 c. to 40
Flax, per lb. 11 to 12 c.
Flour, luperfine, per barrel, 5 Dol. 13 C.
Common, 4 dols. 80 c.
Burr middlings, best, perbrl. 4 Dol. 67 C.
Meal Indian 2 dols. 52 c.
Rye 2 dols. 67 c.
Ship fluff, per cwt, 1 dol. id. 33c.
Gin, Holland, per cafe, 4 dols. 67 c.
Ginseng per lb. 20 c. to 24
Grain, barley, per buihel, 90 c.
best fhellcd, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per buihel, 4c c.
Indian corn, 41 c. Oats 26 c. pr. buih.
Rye 54, Wheat 93 to 95 c.
Hams, perlb. 8 c. t® 9
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dolsi to 146 67c.
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9 c. to 11
Indigo, Carolina, per lb. 60 c. to 1 dol.
Iron, bar, per tan, S2 dols. 67 c.
Callings, per cwt. 3 dels. 47 c.
Kail-rods per ton 96 dpls.
Pig, per ton, 24 dols. to 26 dolfc. 67 c. .
Sheer,'per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
Lard, hjgs, perlb. 9 c. to 10
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
In pigs, 5 dols. 33 c. to 5 dols. 67 c.
Red, 6 dols. 40 c. to fa dols. 67 c.
Whice, 10 dols. to loxiols. 67 c.
Myrtle wax per lb. jßc.
Molasses, per gal. 44 c. to 50
Nutmegs, per lb. 7 to 8 dollars
Oil, Linieed, per gailon, 65 to 67 c,
Pepper, per lb. 40 c. t; 50 c.
Pimento, —— 16 c.
Porter, London, per dozen, j dol. 60 Ct
American, do. 1 d. 4 c. to l d. 60 c.
Pitch, per barrel, 1 dol. 73 c. to 2 dols.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, ji dols to 11 d 67c.
Lower County, do. 10 dols.
Carolina, do. 9 dols.
Rice, per 100 lb. 2 dols. 50 c. to 2 dol. 67 c.
Rolin, per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 d 015.67 c.
Rum, Antigua, per gailon, 1 dol. 11 c.
Barbadoes, do. do. 87 c.
New-England, See. 67 c.
Jamaica, j dol. j3 c. to id. 22 c.
Windward Island, 03c. to id.
Salt, (Ailum) per bushel, 24 to 27 c.
Cadiz, 23 to 24 c.
Liibon, 25 to 27 c.
Liverpool, — 29 c.
Skins, Deer,.in hair, per lb. 20 to 30 c.
Red, ditto, 26 to 33 c.
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
Havanna, white, per lb. 17 to iS c.
Brown, per lb. 1 5 c.
Muicovado, psr cwt. 14 d. to 16 d. 67 c.
Lumiw per lb. 24 c.
Loaf, finale rcf.-i-d, 26 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 c.
Tallow, refined, perlb. 9c.
Tar, New-Jerley, 24 gai. to the brl- I dol.
Carolina, 32 gal. 1 dol. 53 c. to 1 dol. 67 c.
Tea, IMon, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
Hylon skin, 53 c. to 07
Soufiiong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 30 c. to 33
Tobacco, James River, best. per cwt. 3 dols. 60
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 2 dols. 67 c. to 3 dols.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 2 dols. 50 c. to 3 dol
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl. 33 c. to 8 d
Society for efioMiJhing ufeful Manitfaffures.
AT a meeting of the directors of.the Society for
establishing ufeful manufactures, held at New-
Ark, on Friday the eighteenth day of May
1792, at which time was pafied the following
SUPPLEMENT to an ordinance, entitled 4< An
ordinance for securing the punCtual payment ol
the monies due on the fubferiptions to the soci
ety for eftablifh'ing ufeful manufactures. **
WHEREAS by the third feftion of the ordi
nance, entitled " An ordinance for secur
ing the pundtual payment of the monies due on
the fubferiptions to the focjetyjfor eftabli/hing ufe
ful manufactures," it Is ordained, that if anv
(üblcriber or his afligjns, fliali negleCt to pay the
second third or fourth pa\ ment of his, her or their
respeCtive fubferiptions for the space of three days
after the expiration of the time limited by the law
of incorporation for thfe said payments that is to
fay, the fecund payment, on the thirteenth day oi
July. 1792 : that then and in thar cafe, all and
every share or (bares, of such person or persons i )
negleCtin'g to make such payments as aforefaid,
and the monies by them previously paid, shall
forfeited, and forever thereafter vested in the said
directors and their fuccelfors for the common be
nefit of the said society. t
Ani whereas circumftanccs render it inexpedient
to exaCt full pajment of the second instalment on
che said thirteenth day of July next, or within
thee days thereafter.
Be it therefore ordained, by the deputy Gover
nor and directors of the society for establishing ufr
ful manufactures, that if the said second payment
fliail be made in manner following, that is to fay,
one equal third part thereof, on or before the
thirteeenth day of August next, one other equal
t,,;rd part thereof on or before the thirteenth day
of September next and one other equal third part
thereof, on or before the thirteenth day of OCto.
ber next, with lawful interest computed thereon
from the said thirteenth day of July next, that
then andin such cafe, the said penalty mentioned
in the laid seCtion, shall not be exaCted, any thing
in the ordinance to the contrary notwithftani
ing.
A. MERCER, Deputy Governor.
ExtraCt from the Minutes,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Cllc.
JUS T IMPORTED,
From London, Dublin, and Scotland,
A large and, general ajfortment of
BOOKS,
For sale by ROBERT CAMPBELL, No. 54>
South Second-Street.
VINER'S general abridgement of law and
equity, alphabetically digested under pro
per titles with notes and references to the whole 5
4 volumes are received. Price to fubfcribers4
dollars per vol. neatly bound.
* # * This worlc will be comprised in 24 royal
odlavo vols. 8 or more of which will be puijlilhed
every year until completed.
Lord Raymond, Douglafs, Vefey, Cowper,
Strange, Crooke, Ambler, Salkeld, Peere Wil
liams, Durnford a~nd East, Dallas, Comyns, Bur
rows, Kelyng's and Aitkin's Reports in odiavo—•
Hargrave and Butler's Coke upon Littleton,
London and Dublin editions.—Comyn's aigeft ot
the laws, 5 Dodtor and Student, or dialogues
between a Do&or of Divinity and a Student., in
the laws of England Eunomus or dialogues
concerning the laws 3nd constitutions of Engtoiid,
Foftcrs crown law Leach's crown law—Gil
bert's practice in common pleas Hinds and
Harrifons pradlice in chancery—New law £72m~
mar---Mallory's entries, 2 vols.—Newman'*
conveyancing, 6 vols. — Williams's do. 2 do.
Highmore on bail — Hatfels precedents in the
houte of commons—Powel on contra&s---Do.
on powers—Reeves's history of the English law-
New fyltem of pleading — Sheppard's touch
ftone—Kyd on A wards — Richardson's common
pleas---Travels of Analc'narfis the younger, in
Greece, during the midde of the 4th century be
fore the christian era, 7 vols, with elegant maps, m
Cowper's tranfiation ot Homer, 2 vols. — Gilles's
history of Greece, 3 vols. — Gibbon's Roman his
tory, 12 vcls. do. do. complete in 6 vo! c .—.
Ruffels history of modern Europe, 5 vols
Humes's history of England, 8 vols.—Rolling's
ancient history 8 vols. 8 vol. fame book 10 vols.
12 mo Bolwell's life of Dr. Samuel Johnson,
with an elegant head—King 0/ Prulfia's works,
1 3 vols.-- Bruces travels, 6 vols—Elegant extracts
prose, verse, and epistles—Domestic divinity by
Knox—Mofheim's ecclesiastical history, 6 vols.-—
Soame Jenyn's works, 2 vols. Tower's life of
Frederick the 3d. late King of Prufla, 2 vols.—
Shakespeare's dramaiic works complete in one
vol.—— Spallanzani's difiertations, relative to
the natural history of animals and vegetaWes, 2
vols. The European and literary magazines
forthelaft6 months of 3791 The univeffal
and gentleman's do. fordo. -Lately published
Smellies philosophy of natural history, price two
doJla r s, neatly bound.
N. B. Country ftorekeepcrs may be supplied
at the above place with family, common, and
pocket Bibles, Testaments, Spelling-books,
Watt's Psalms, Hymns, Playing Cards, Quills,
Wafers, Sealing-Wax, Writing-Paper, Blank-
Books, &c. &c. on the lowest terms. iaw.
"NEW-YORK & PHILADELPHIA S'i'Abi:,
Via Bcrdentcivn and Burlington,
And SHREWSBURY & PHILADELPHIA
STAGE,
Via Bordtntoivn.
THE proprietors of the New-Yovk and Phi
ladelphia l?nd and water Stages beg leave to
mention, that for the better accommodation of
they have thought proper to remove
the different packet boats from their former stand,
at the Crooked Billet wharf, to the wharf or dock
immediately next below Arch-street, from whence,
on the firft day of July next, and afterwards, a
convenient packet-boat will start for New-York,
as usual, on every Sunday, Tuesday, Wednesday
and Thursday, and return on every Tuesday,
1 hurfday, Friday and Saturday. The pafTage to
be made either by the way of Bordentown or Bur
lington, each place to be taken alternately. Fare
for passengers .from Philadelphia to New-Yurk
15s.— For Goods pr. cwt. 6.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
DAVID WILLIAMSON,
Proprietors of the line of New-York and Phi
ladelphia Stages, by the route of Bordentown.
JACOB MYERS,
AMOS HUTCHIN,
NICHOLAS SCHENK,
Proprietors of the line of N. York and Phila
delphia Stages, by the route of Burlington.
The Shrewfbary Stage will leave Philadelphia
in the months ol July and September, on every
Sunday and WedjiefHay, and return on every
Tuesday and Friday, ln the month of August,
it will leave Philadelphia on every Sunday and
Thursday, and leturn on every Tuesday and Sa
turday.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
Daniel lot,
Proprietors of the Shrewsbury and Philad. Stage.
Bordentoivn, June 25, 1792.
For freight or paiTage apply to the masters on
board, or to* M'KEAN & VAN EMBURGH,
at thtir store on said wharf, immediately next be
low Arch-Street ; by ivkom orders for the purchase
of all kinds of grain, Jiavcs, or other country pro-
Cuce, are punctually attended to.
For freight or paHage to Lambcrton or Tren
ton, also apply as above. law tf
Philadelphia, June 27.
CHESTER TOWN &? BALTIMORE
STAGES.
THE Eastern-Shore Stage, by way of Chef
tertown to Baltimore, starts regularly from
James Thompson's, Indian Queen, Fourth-ftreer,
Philadelphia, every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday, mornings, precisely at 7 o'clock, and
on the fame mornings at 4 o'clock, from Mr.
Grant's in Baltimore. The cultivation of the
country, and goodness of the roads, together
with the attention that shall be paid by the pro
prietors, will, it is hoped, be a fufficien' induce
ment for a preference being given to this route.
JAMES THOMPSON,
ROBERT HODGSON,
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE, NO. 209, HIGH-STREET
NEAR FIFTH-STREET,
PHILAWEtrHIA.