[Numb, i o of Vol. ll.]
Conclujlon of Mr. IVilliamforSs fp::ch from
our Injl.
• * | 1 HIS conclusion, however, is drawn
JL upon the supposition, that foreign
commerce fhoull be encouraged, but I
am aware, that obje&ions have been made
to every measure that has foreign com
merce for :t s ofcjedt, and similar objedti
ons woukffall with additional weight a
gainfl any plan for supporting foreign
commerce by native seamen. We are
told, that in a country where land is
plenty and inhabitants few ; where little
progress is made in cultivating the foil,
the legislature fliould consider agriculture
as the primary object of their attention.
This is a position that will not be difpti
ted, since w.e know, that the hope of our
fpec'e» must prosper or perish ; that our
numbers mutt be many or few, according
to the abundance or scarcity of provisions.
Thefefa&s being granted, we are only to
enquire, what are the moll certain and
efTe&nal means of promoting sgriculture ?
To this I reply, that we can promote
agriculture by extending foreign com
merce, and bvno other direst means what
ever. Bounties can never prove effec
tual, they may serve to introduce a so
reign plant, but they cannot produce in
duflry nor plenty. The general demand
for any article never fails to increase the
manufacture of that article. The great
demand for provisions to be exported,
will not fail to produce abundance of pro
visions in the country.
The fimplc calls of nature ; the mere
necessity of supporting life is not a fuffici
ent spring to aSive induflry ; it feidoai
gives birth to persevering diligence. Ar
tificial w'ants and pafiions mud come to
our affiilancei before we can {hake ofF • he
indolence of nature, and apply ourselves
fleadily to work. Let a man discover that
industry will procure him the luxuries as
well as the neceflaries of life, and he will
not fail to work Let the farmer fee a
ready market for all the produce that is
Dot confomed by his family, and he will
commonly have something to fell ; let no
such market prcfent itfelf, and his family
will frequently fuffer by the want of neces
saries. Every man who considers the ef
fects of frequent and long embargoes, must
discover that they generally produce a scar
city of provisions. The late war operated
in this country as an embargo. What was
the effect 1 The spirit of agriculture be
came torpid ; the plow slept in the furrow.
Let us for a moment call an eye on the
liifloryof cities and nations. They have
tifen into greatness or funk into obfeuri y
according to the measure of their com
merce. By the creative power of foreign
commerce, Palmyra and Alexandria arose
out of sandy deserts, and Venice out of the
sea. By the fame power we have fecn
nations become wealthy and numerous
If we are rgreed that induflry, popu
lation, and wealth are promoted by foreign
commerce, it will certainly be granted that
our commerce fliould be managed bv na
tive citizens. In order to secure a fuffici
ent number of seamen, we should make it
theintereftof every mafler or owner of a
veflel, to have one or more apprentices.
For this purpose it may be proper to im
pose a small additional duty of tonnage
on every American bottom, perhaps one
cent, per ton may be fufficient. A draw
back of 90 per cent, of this duty may be
allowed, to such vessels as are navigated
by a certain number of apprentices, native
citizens of the United States, according
to their several burdens. I have nuntiontd
90 per cent, because it may be proper that
a small portion of this duty fliould pass to
a separate account that shall presently be
mentioned. The amount of domeflic ten •
nage for the last year was 504,900, at fix
cents per ton, this giving 30,294 dollars,
lierce it will follow that one additional
rent, per ton would produce 5049 dol
lars The amount is small, perhaps it
should be doubled.
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhed. Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
While I am recommending the increafi
of American seamen, I should not do jus
tice to my own feelings, if I did not re
comment another measure that is eqaallj
conne&ed with commerce, I mean a gen
eral provlfion for sick and infirm seamen
I do not contemplate the building of twe
or three great houses in fomc of ourprin
cipal cities ; houses that might adminis
ter to the vanity of a nation, rathei than
to the general comfort of sick and infirtr
sailors. I would consult of hu
manity, not of pride.—Wherever it i
probable that sailors may be sick, there 3
would make provinon for their fuppor:
and comfort. Hospitals (hould be erect.
Ed, or lodgings hired, as the cafe may be.
at every port of entry in the Unitec
States, for sick and infirm seamen, where
they may be properly attended during
their fev.ral indispositions. The money to
be colle£\ed at the several ports as hospital
money and should be expended at such
port. and at no other place, under the care
of fvich persons as may be described for
that purpose. Let a small dedudlioa be
made from the wages of every seaman, to
be paid at the several ports of entry for
their use. I have mentioned a dedu&ion
from their wages, because this mode o(
railing hospital money would probably be
mod acceptable, and because it is certain
ly the mod equitable tax that can be le
vied.
It will readily be perceived, that the
two fubjefts I have mentioned, are nearly
allied—While we attempt to increaf* the
number of native seamen for the extension
of commerce and general profpeiity ot
agriculture, we (hould be solicitous to pro
tc£l and cherish this ufefnl class ol our fel
low citizens. The direst tendency of the
additional tonnage, is to inertafe the
number of apprentices and if this mea
sure should have the desired efft-ft, the
greater part of that duty will be dfcharg
ed in drawbacks A small portion of the
duty will be retained according to the plan
mentioned, and some owners, less careful,
will occasionally pay the whole duty. Per
haps the product of the additional cent,
may be ioco dollars per annum. This
balance may very properly be applied to
wards a fund for sick and infirm seamen.
This fund however, being contingent, and
at mod very inadequate to the geneial use
of seamen, it may be necefiary to make a
small (I'ppage of their wages as a uni
form and certain fund for the support of
those very persons when th; y are sick.
Such aie the outlines of two bills that
I would recommend to the attention oi
this honfe. If I have viewed these sub
jests in a more serious light, if I have
been more anxious than other members to
luring them before the lioufe, the fituatior
of my conflituents, and the laws ot out
(late will be my excuse. That part of
North-Carolina, in which I live, abounds
in navigable waters, many of my fellow
citizens are owners of vtffels, and many
go to sea.
The legislature of North Carolina at
tentive to the wants and desires of the
people, have lately pasTed a law to raid
money by a tax on the wages of seamen,
for the support of sick and infirm seamen
This is a fufficient proof of their desire tc
cherish commerce, and give particular as
fiflancc to those ufeful members of th<
community."
Fromthe American Daily Advertissr
of November 27.
THE late difcufiion of the political
principles of the two candidates for
the Vice Prefidency,has prelented a view ol
the fu':je£l extremely interesting to tlu
public.—For forne time pad, gre3t pain;
have been taken to revive' the exploded
names of federalijl and c.nt'ifedcraljl, and
turn them at the present crifia into signals
for el.ftioneering purposes. The artifice
has rot, in some intlances been without
fucccfs; tho' not in the degree expe£l;d.
S A T U R D A Y, December i, 1792.
At length it bi 1 s fair to r"cuil oil the an
thors with a force as great as it was uh
forefecn. I am, Sir, if the term am- ftii
be used, afcderalijl--, I wish th s co-iltituti
on, to be fapported r.u the palladium o.
liberty and order r.t. for that very reason
as well a others, I think,on a full view o
the cafe, Mr Adami less fit to receive thi
fufFrage of the people, than Governoi
Clir.ton.
Although Governor Clinton's theor)
of national government, may not havt
squared exaftlv witli the con!ti ution ; yel
no man of candor can deny that on a fail
comparison, it difFers much less than the
theory of Mr. Adams, which embrace!
principles alien to the essential principle:
of the constitution —As a friend to the
conltitution, as a federalill, therefore, I air
compelled to prefer Governor Clinton t<
Mr. Adams.
Governor Clinton is univerf Ily held tc
be a found and uniform republican. Mr
Adams is a zealous, active perfevfring.ad
vocate for a limited monarchy. As are
Publican, therefore, I cannot withh- li mj
preference of Governor Clinton to Mr. A
dams.
Th» fentitiunts of governor Clinton
in relitio'i to the spirit, in vvh ch govern
men' ought to be administered, are agree
able to ihafe of the people at large. Th<
complexion of Vr. Adams's politics suit:
those of a particular class only. At <
friepd, therefore, to a faithful reprefen'v
tion of the public fentimeiit in every dc
p,irtm :nt of the government, my preference
n;ufi • o< be given to Mr. Adams, but tc
Governor Clinton.
Whatever diversity of speculation may
have been afloat, at the adoption of the
conflitution, refpe&ing its energy and o
peration, it is evidenced by trial to contain
'p incipleof felfcontinuation fuffioiently
i gorous to make its mo.t ardent friends
;afy on that head. It is a truth held up to
:llc polit• cal observer, by universal experi
ence, that the tendency of all efficient go
vernments, is rather towards a growth
:han a decay of its powers. This import
ant leffjn has, as is plain to the candid and
■veil informed, received as much Corifirma
:ion f.om the hiflory of our own experi
ence, as the fhonnefs of the time can afford.
As an enemy therefore to dangerous inno
nations of all forts, I mud rcjedt Mr. A-
whose whole bi.a is on the fide oi
the molt probable danger.
Among the pofiibk dangers to be prof
in'&ed, may be numbered tfie dreadful/con
sequence of some sudden violent fliock, tc
the principles and feelings of the great bo
Jy of the people. 1 . looking for fac'n ;
danger it can be discovered no where, b\i
in the enter prizing views of those whe
think mankind cannot govern themfelve
md who wish by an all!fieial process it
Diing in ultimately, heredit-ry difiinSion.
;nd orders. If there be such a pirty ii
the UiiitedS ates,as seems generally agreed
the dangei to be feared from it, mud
be incrcafed by the political doctrines o.
Mr. Adams, and in proportion to the pre
tended countenance, given thereto by hi.
political elevation. As a frlnd io the bub
lie liability and tranquility, therefore I mud
adhere to my opinion that G.ivei nor Clin
ton, rather than Mr. Adams ought to be
preferred to the Vice Presidency of the
United States.
A Republican Federal
Strictures on Mr. Adam's political char
after.
r From the American Daily Advertiser. J
A WHITER under the signature ol
" A Confident Federalill," sirs! re
marks refpefting Mr. Adams, that all the
antifederals :n Amcricaliave applied them
selves to depreciate his character, with z
vi.-w to deprive the general government o!
the aid of his talents ; and that writer as
fe£is to be of opinion, that the perfens
defijnated by him anti federals, would v.il
[Total No. 114.]
' ,n s'y destroy orleflcn the proper and ne.
ceflary influence of th'c general govern
ment.
The canfe, which gave rife to the terms
federal and anil federal, is known to be the
quellion which agitated America in 1788,
refpe&ing the adoption or rejection of the
no.v existing constitution ; upon the final
d-cifion of that question, there was, as
there ought to have been, an end to the
legitimate nfe of these terms : there real
ly did not cxift such adiftindtion amongl
the citizens of America.
The then anti federals at lead teftified
the;r patriotism, by peacefully submitting
to the decisions of a majority of America,
fair'y pronounced, in conventions chofeu
by the p?ople ; and, by forgetting the ir
ritations, wheh sprang from the heated
dtfeufiions of that momentous question.
I, who then was, and Hill am, federal,
in the ftti& sense of the term 33 at present
used, but who then willed, and 11:11 wish,
to fee the government administered fairly
and openly, with the fulleft information
to the people, can find no good reafoa
why those who also profefs to be federal,
(hould infill upon the existence of an anti
federal party, when the cause of the dif
tinftioii has ceased, and when it may be
with fsfety pronounced, that there is not
at this time a man of common sense and
common virtue i:i America, who can be
f?.;d to be anti fed.ral, if by that term is
meant a wiflj to dtftroy the ex.Uin* gov
ernment.
One reason only fiiggefts itfelf f. r this
condu£fc, and although it may seem to some
a little Uncharitable, yet truth compels a
discovery of it. It is an existing defr;n
of a particular party, to work upon the
Prejudices and p ifions of the people, by ob
juring from them the truth, which are
ieeme 1 more favourable to the prime ol>-
jeds and intereftg of the party, than ho
nest nddreftes to their judgments, enlight
ened by a plain and naked state of fails.
The 'Consistent Federalist' next afTerts,
that " Mr. Adams is as firm and uniform
a patriot, as America can boast to have
reared in her bosom."This fad I positive
ly deny. And as we are now at ifiue upon
its verity or.falfehood, recurrence mull be
had to the evidence on each fide.
In fopport of the afiertion, the"Consist
ent Federalist" h-s had recourse to Mr.
Adams's ferviccs in the early part of, and
during the American revolution ; the vari
ous honours conferred upon him in confe
quenre -of those fervlces,and his conduct in
vari us irrfilons abroad, which is f i 1 to
have been produSlive of great good to A
menc.i; fume mutilated extracts Hon foir.c
of his early writings on government have
been fumifhed, and hence a conclusion is
drawn, that Mr. Adams is at this time the
devoted advocate forthe American govern
ments," vhere reign fupe ionty cf righrs
with perfonalequality, and diJlir.Siun oi o!7ic;
without noliii'y oi birth."
As! am in quell of truth I will furnifti
anoth. r extrad from Mr. Adams's politi- '
cal writings.of 1756 ; it is token from a
letter of his addrefl'ed to Wythe, the
present chancellor of Virginia, andunder
rt*ent the press probab.y on account of the
luppofed excellence of the dodrines is
:ontained.
Speaking of free governments, and the
means of securing freedom to the people,
Mr. Adams makes the following remark:
1 Atid as it haß become nectfiary to ;.{Tums
government for our immcdia'e fecuritvj
[he governor, lieutenant governor, fecre
tary,treafurer, commifFarv, attorney gen
era', fbould he chosen by joint bal lot of
both h.ouf s. Ana these anti all other elec
tion?, especially of leprifer.tatives and
counsellors, (houl! be annual ; there not
biing, in the whole circle of the sciences,
a maxim more infdliible t'v.n this,"
" Where i.nnual elections end, there fia
very begins "
\ t ß(iiia.r,ds3r in our ne::t.Substance of the Observations of Mr. Find
ley, in theHoufe of Representatives of
the U. States, on Wednesday Nov. 21
on the motion of Mr. Parker tor lin
king out fuchpart of the third resolution
reported by the committee of the whole
on the Preiident's speech, as respects a
reference to the Secretary of the I rea
fury, on the Reduction of tile Public
Debt.
Mr. Speaker,
I AM one of those members described
. by the gentleman from New-York, who
seriously with to pay the public debt as fait
as poilible, and receive the neceflary infor
mation even from the Secretary of the
Treasury ; but I make a material distinc
tion between feekingfcr information, and
transferring the power of originating sys
tems.
To give information of the state of the
Union, to recommend such business as the
President may judpje expedient; and to
exercise a limited negative 011 the laws, ic
certainly all the part which the constitu
tion authorises the executive to ast in le
gifiation.
The existence ofheads of departments,
is authorised in the constitution, and hath
been erected by the acs of the legislature ;
these departments are the inftrunients ot
colle£ting information, and repositories ct
it, as it refpefts the execution and effect 01
the laws ; and this information we have a
right to command. This, with the more
general and important information which
the members of this honfe possess, are ail
thai is neceflary to enable us to give the
tint form,and complexion to our revenue
plans. To prevent the necessity of refer
ring the bulinefs to an executive officer,
we will avail ourselves of the information
deposited in the Secretaries' offices.
This we have unanimously aflerted, and
yet the gentlemen on the other tide ot this
question, constantly argue in favor ot re
ceiving information, as if we were aga;n!t
it. We with for it as much, and for more
important purposes than they.
The gentleman alledges that the right of
the Secretary's origin ating plans is impli
cated in the constitution, and call; upon
us to prove the contrary ; no luch thing is
mentioned in the constitution. It is con
felFed that it does not appear on the firlt
impression, therefoie the burden of the
proof falls on the gentleman himfelf.
The nature of the government, as it pro
hibits the other branch from intermed
dling in the firlt formation of money bills,
and expref4y describes how far the exe
cutive power may interfere with the legii
larive. is fufficiefltly expreflive of the de
llgn of the constitution. Legillative au
thority is in its own nature incommunica
ble, and cannot be transferred ; a member
of the legislature cannot appoint a deputy
to fervc in his place ; it any power is ex
clusively vested, it is that of giving the firii
complexion to revenue systems , this is the
lpecial trust of that branch which pofleffes
within itfelf the greatert knowledge of the
people's circumstances, and participation
of their interests; and this influential pow
er is thus guarded for obvious reasons.
But the constitutional principles involved
in this question have been explained with
so much ability by several other gentlemer
who have been up before me, that it is not
neceflary to detain the house longer or
that headv. .
However, another argument which ha:
been frequently repeated, and particularly
urge-el by the gentleman last up (Mr. Ger
ry) requires some further auimadverlions.
It is, that by the law which defines the
power of the Secretary, we are bound tc
refer the revenue bulinefs to that officer,
and to receive the original pi from him ;
that if we do not att according to this law.
we will set a dangerous example of diso
bedience to the citizens.
Mr Speaker, I alk, had the House of
Representatives a right to originate in the
fait instance revenue systems, before this
law was made ? This I presume will not
be denied; if that house had the powei,
are not the powers of this house equally
extensive ? Can one House ot Represen
tatives abridge or alienate the powers of
another ? If this can be done, we may
give away the constitutional powers of fu
ture homes to any extent. In short fir, I
have as much power now in this house, as
any member tver had in any former house ;
my conduct as a member is only reftri&ec
by the constitution, and by the temporary
rules of the house, which we may change
at pleasure by a vote. I have a right now
to move on this floor, an original plan, for
the very purpose in question, or for any o
ther revenue purpose : this is a power vest
ed with every member, consequently with
the whole ho'ufe, and they cannot transfer
it to a secretary, to the senate or to any
officer, or public body on earth.
The law in question gives a capacity tc
the secretary to prepare plans vyhen we
direct him to do so ; it makes it his duty,
(how far that law is proper, is another
question.) But the law does not, nor can
not, oblige us to call upon him to do that
duty, or°reftrain us from doing it our
selves.
Gentlemen talk much of our power tr
alter or reject his systems; but this is not
to the purpose j it has been already ob.er-
ved, that we might -liter or reject a plan
propofeel to us by the Senate, or by the
Preiident ; but it is our peculiar duty to
generate or give the original complexion
to the systems, and this by univeriai
consent, esteemed the moil important and
influential part ot the bliiinels.
Our own discernment and virtue, is by
fame gentlemen urged as a fumcient
rity against any influence or danger, that
can poflibly arise from transferring this
part of our duty to an executive officer;
I coxfefs I have no doubt ol our virtue,
and entertain a pretty good opinion of out
discernment j it is an agreeable tiling e
nough to have a good opinion ot ourtelves.
However, I apprehend, the mott vena
public body that ever exitted, would have
boasted of their own integrity, as well a
we ; but it is enough for us that the con
ttitution has provided other securities thai
our wisdom and virtue; our felt-conn
dence never ought to induce us to bt ear
over, or despise the conttitutional guards.
But, palling other things, I (hall m«e :
few observations upon the advantages anc
d;i advantages ariling from both (ides o:
the quettion. Some of the diUal'- ant ige
mentioned are, that by originating the re
venue systems in the house our measure;
will be fluctuating, public credit will bt
impaired, or 1011, and a ltop put to the na
tional prosperity ; and, as the gentlemai
Lift up, Mr. Gerry, has repeatedly Uu
che confuiions of the old government wil
be introduced. It is admitted, that the
constitution puts it in the power ot tiu
representatives to give thefirft fonn to re
venue plans, if they choose to do it ; a;
ieatf, thst it was optional with them pre
vious to the law : if, therefore, they can
not do it themselves without all those mil
rhievous consequences, it is time to change
:he government itfelf—it is much better tc
Ho so, avowedly and deliberately, than ,i
this infidiotis and ic:.rect manner. Howe
ver, I wish we would firft try the expert
ment in a few inftanies, and if thoie b,.e
-cts are produced, the gentlemen s ar
Tiiments in favor of their plan will receive
rxperimental aid. , , .
With refpeft to the confuiions of the olt
rovernmenr, I am at some loss to kno\\
what the gentleman means; it is true, the
■M Congress was vetted with a confuhor
if powers, viz. legislative, executive, &c
3lit this is not the cafe with us ; the ok
Congress had alfb a confufed manner o!
loing business; they feldoni had a*u
]OUl'c : this circumstance laid them undei
:he necessity of referring much ot then
•jufinefs to the heads of departments ; a
raintt doing whi*-h, the conrederat;on hac
provided no such express guard, -us oui
:onttitution does; 1 have always appre
hended, that, from that confufed habit o
ioing bulinefs, the present method of re
ferring legislative atfairs to the heads u
departments, found its way into this house
and it is against, and not tor, that old con
rufion, that I contend.
With refpea to the advantages arifmi
from the Secretary of the Treasury inj
:he firft principles, and original complex
,on to our revenue systems, they are ftatee
:o be great and numerous ; but they ar<
well summed the gentleman fron
New-York (Mr. Lawrance) who fays
that to this method of doing business, w<
ire indebted for the retrieved state ot oil
national affairs, for all our wealth and prof
perity. Surely if this proves any th'mg. i
proves too much ; if the Secretary's influ
ence and abilities can do so much good, i
is that if he is either mittaken, oi
wants virtue, he may by the exercise o
this power, do much harm. Accordingte
:his way of re; 1 i'oning Congrels mutt bt
tefponfible foi all that is wrong, and the
Secretary have the credit ot all that i
:!one we'll; will any person who support:
:liis aflertion, pretend to fay, that if en
trusting the Secretary with originating the
Principles of money bills, produces fuel
important effects, that it does not vest hi it
u ith the means of an undue and dangerou;
influence ?
But does the gentleman believe that the
Drefent government, vetted with such ex
:en(ive and effective powers, and pofle(fec
>f such ample means, would have lefi
;hofe powers unexere'ifed, and those mean;
anapplyed; that Congress would have
paid no refpefct to the c ontracts, and made
no provision for the debts of the Unitec
States, if the Secretary had not originatec
the pbns ? surely this is not a fuppofablc
cafe ; nor is it very confident with ano
ther observation made by the gentleman,
hen he told us, that the Secretary's pre
paring apian was attended with no vnort
inlluence than would be produced by the
cierk of this house inferring a clause in a
bill—both inttances being equally fubjefi
to our controul. I would not consent.
nor do we permit our clerk to originate
f stems ; but if we cannot do it ourselves.
it woulcl be much more consistent aiui
fafe, to trust it with our clerk, who is
wholly dependant on the house, and ma\
be djfmiffed by it at pleasure, and has nc
patronage connected it!i his office, than
to entri-.ft that power with an executive
officer, chosen by the President, and de
pendant or, him for his continuance in of
fice, and having an encreafmg patronage
connected with his office. Certainly, fir,
if an officer mutt be paid to originate our
revenue systems, we ought to provide that
he should be appointed by, 2nd dependant
upon the House of Representatives.
When we reflect upon the fiibje£t, and
look round us, we will find no example in
the state governments to countenance our
conduit, and these were the models after
which tlie government of the Union was
formed ; nor is it pretended that the con
stitution under which we act, and have
i\vorn to support, expressly gives any luch
power, and I am perl'uaded that the gene
ral convention which originated the gov
ernment of the Union, not the (late con
ventions who adopted it, contemplated no
such implication, as is now contended for
in support of our practice.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Tuesday, Nov. 27.
A bill was reported, from the commit
tee appointed for the purpole, to afceftain
the fees demandable in the admiralt;
courts of the United States, and partly tc
amend the act for the government of Tea
men employed in the merchants'lervice- —
Read twice, and referred to the commit
tee of the whole on Monday next.
A bill was reported, from the committee
appointed, for licenling and enrolling vef
feb, employed in coaiting and the fiilieries.
and for regulating the fame—Read twice,
add referred to a committee of the whols
on Tuefdaynext.
The third reading, of the bill lor regu
lating foreign coins, and for other purpo
res, was begun ; but, at the request of ;
member, deferred till to-morrow for fur
ther consideration.
Read, the Secretary's report on the pe
tition ofjohn de Neufville —agreed that nt
part thereof ought to be granted.
A petition was presented (communicatee
by Gov. St. Clair) from the inhabitants o:
Poft-Vincennes, on the Wabalh, prayinj
exemption from charges of furvey —Reac
and referred to a felecf committee.
A petition was read, from Duncar
Campbell, praving to be put on the pen
lion lift—Read and referred to the com
mittee appointed on iimilar applications.
The motion of Mr. Mlirray, for au
thorizing the clerk of tlie House to par
chafe maps for the use of the fame, beinj
renewed by him—was, after some debate,
agreed to.
The House then went into comrir.tte<
of the whole on the report oi the Secre
tary of the Treasury, respecting 101 l 01
destroyed certificates —After some debate
the motion was loft, and the cominittet
obtained leave to iit again.
A motion was made by Mr. Giles, thai
a committee be appointed to prepa. e an<
report a bill for making further compen
sation to certain receivers of continenta
taxes. —Ordered to lie on the table.
On motion, the report 01 a com
mittee, on the petition of Moses Y ounj
(formerly secretary to Mr. Laurens, whei
in Holland) for arrears, was read, nnc
made the order of the day for
the sth December.
The report of n committee on the pe
tition ofCharles and Louis Garranger (for
merly belonging to the artillery of tht
United States) for compensation% wa.
made the order of the day for next Thurs
day.
Another report, on the petition of tht
executors of Edward Carnes, for the pay.
ment of sums due for services rendered,
—was referred to a eomniitttee of tht
ivhole on Friday next.
Wednesday, Nov. 28.
A petition was presented, signed by nine
rxcife collectors of the state of New- \ ork,
bating the rcceipt of only ninety dollar;
-or 15 months services, and praying riliei
—Referred to the Secretary of the Trea
sury.
Several petitions were read,viz,from Lo
iowick Kuhn, praying settlement of ac
counts, and compensation for fuppbes fur
lifhed the army during the war—referred
to the Secretary of the Treafury—f rom
Samuel Shaw, American Consul at Can
ton, praying remission of duties on a cargo
of tea imported from China, by way oi
Oftend—referred to a committee of three
—From Abigail Hart, praying a penlion,
as widow of the late jVlajor an offi
cer in the army of the United States le
t'erred to a Co nmittee—From Willian
Lockaway, a soldier in the late \ apray
ing for a full penlion—referred 10 the
committee on final applications.
Mr. Clark moved that the Secretary ol
the Treasury's report on various petition:
be referred to a committee of the whoU
on next Thursday—which was agreed to
Mr. Giles's motion, for appointing :
committee to bring in a bill, granting fur
ther compensation to certain receivers 01
continental taxes was taken into consider
ation, agreed to, and referred to Meflrs
Giles, S. Bourne, andSylvefter—read, also
a second time, and referred to a commit
tee of the whole on Monday next.
The report of the committee on th.
boundary line between Virginia and th
territory south of the Ohio, was read, a
dopted, and the fame committee appointed
to report a bill.
A bill was reported by Mr. Parker for
making compensation to the widows and
orphans of those killed by the Indians,
when under the fau&ion of flags of "1 ruce
—Read twice, and referred to a committee
of the whole on next Monday.
On motion of Mr. Steele, the attention
of the House was called to the memo
rial, of Warner Mifflin, prefer.ted by Mr-
Ames on Monday last, recommending the
abolition of llaveryin the United States —
Mr. Steele moved, that the clerk of the
House be directed to return to Warner
Mifflin his memorial ; and that the entry
thereof be expunged from the journal—He
further observed, that after what hadpafl
ed on that fubje£t in New-York, he had
hoped the house would have heard no more
of it ; but to his surprise, he found the
buiinefs was flarted anew, and had been
introduced by a fanatic, who, not content
with keeping his own confidence, under
took to be the keeper of the confidences
of other men, and in a manner which he
deemed not very decent, had obtruded his
opinion into the house. Had such an ap
plication been made to him, in cafe he had
food in a similar relation to gentle
men holding the species of property refer
red to. he thought he fliould have avoided
a compliance \\ith it. Gentlemen in the
northern states do not realize the mischiev
ous confequeuces which have been taken
by certain perf'ons in relation to that pro
perty : and he said, if a flop was not put
to these proceedings, the southern itates
would, ere long, be compelled to apply to
the general government for their inter
ference.
Mr. Ames rose to explain the motives of
his conduit in presenting the petition. He
laid it .va his opinion, and this opinion he
bad exprcfled in the House a long time
lince, that the government could not, with
propriety, take any steps in the btrfinefs
referred to in the petition ; but on the ge
neral principle, that every citizen has a
tight to petition the legislature, and to ap
jiy to any member as the vehicle to con
vey his request to the house, be had hancied
it in. The petitioner is a citizen of De
laware ; had the member from that state
oeen in the House, he fliould not have
thought himfelf obliged to have introduced
it : but the member from Delaware being
absent, the petitioner had a right to apply
to a member from Maflachufetts, or to any
jthe,' member. His mind,he said, hacHong
"incebeenmadeupin regard to the iiibjett
of negro fiavery, but he had no idea of fnp-
Dorting the present application : he had
uniformly been opposed to these made to
Congref the firft feflion ; and was decid
edly against an interference, considering it
as totally inexpedient.
IV - Smith exprefled his disapprobation
of the memorial in very pointed terms ;
he reprobated the measures pursued by
persons of a fanatical difpofltion. in rela
tion to the negro fl; very, as tending to fab
vert the peace of the country destroy
the union, fie supported the motion ; he
thought it was high time for the House to
sxprels its opinionin tuch a manner, as to
put a flop to all such applications in fu
ture. Remarks were made by ftvcral o
ther gentlemen ; and then a motion to di
vide the qi:eftion being agreed to, the firft
oart oi' the resolution, refpefting returning
of the petition, -was carried in the affirma
tive.
The bill for regulating foreign coins was
-end a third time—re-committed, and made
the order of the day for next Monday.
The bill was then read, in committee of
the whole House, for re-imburfing the
}_nces of the comiflioners to the southern
Indians—After some debate, a motion to
ill up the blank with 1200 dollars, was
tarried. The committee then report
ed the bill without amendment —Laid on
:he table.
Thursday, Nov. 29.
A bill, from the committee appointed
:o prepare a bill for regulating a trade
with the Indians, was brought in, twice
-ead, and committed for Monday next.
Mr. Willitimfon notified the House, that
lie \Vonld move for a committee to bring
in a bill for regulating the copper coinage
of the United States.
A letter was read from the Treasurer
of the United States, with his specie ac
count for July, August, and September,
1792. \
The House then, according to the order
of'the day, in committee of the whole,
took into consideration the Secretary of
tiie Treasury's report, containing estimates
of the requisitions neceflary for the civil
lift expenditures,&c. for 1793 —being, in
the sum total, one million fix hundred and
lixteen thousand seven hundred and eigli
tv-five dollars, —After some debate there
on, the committee rose, to take the fame
into consideration again to-morrow.
On Motion of Mr. Fitzlimons, a resolu
tion was pafl'ed to request the President of
the United States to cause assays and ex
periments to be made at the mint of the
United States, for ascertaining the quanti
ty of pure metal, and of alloy, in the gold
and Over coins ofFrance, England. Spain,
and Portugal ; and to report the fame to
tS e House.PHILADELPHIA.
December i.
Between the firft and the fifteenth ol
o£lober, considerable damage Was done by
the Indians in and about Cumberland, in
the territory fonth of the Ohio. Several
persons were tired at, when travelling the
roads, one killed and another shot through
the thigh. On White's Creek they burnt a
diltillery—lofs computed at near five hun
dred poundi : Several dwelling house
were alio burnt, hogs killed, and horfei
driven off; part of which were recovered
by a party of men, and one of the Indians
killed.
It his been the policy of the wifelt le
gislators to employ the paitions of mankind
infupportof their different fyltems of ju
:ifprudence. Pride and fuperilition have
j?en made fabi'ervient to this end with
jreit effect. Nor have the legislators oi
the republic of America neglected to en
gage the paflions on the fide of the govern
ment of the United States. The princi
ple of fear i ho wever, thot which they
have generally made use of. 1 ndeed so great
is the attention they have paid to it, and
their anxiety to court it, that it is the foun
dation stone upon which many a very
elaborate speech has been built. In the
late debates in the House of Representa
tives upon the motion for examining the
Secretaries of the War and Treauiry de
partments, fear was the leader of an ar
my of arguments. One member feared
the influence which the honorable Secre
taries might acquire over the House. An
other feared, the precedent their examina
tion would eftabliTh, by which future le
gislatures might encroach upon the admi
nistration of the executive. A third fear
ed, that the dignity of. the House would
be lelfened. A fourth feared, that it would
transfer the talk of legislation to the Se
cretaries! and in short, fear was so much
employed, that the honorable members, it
was inlinuated, began to fear their own
shadows. In the Senate of the United
States fear has been as much used as in the
House of Representatives. The Senators
have feared the democratic influence too
predominant in America and therefore
wished to give the President a title.
They feared our present illustrious chief
magiitratc • vould be forgotten, and there
fore wanted to place his effigie; upon th?
federal coin But in no inftauce has their
fear arifenfo hig : as upon thequeftion for
opening thei -do jrs Thereafons for (hut
ting thein .'ives up. have been, a., far as we
can guess. ill The fearof long speeches,
2d. The fearof a mob. and 3d The
fear of appearing ridiculous. In short,
this passion has been of the greatest ser
vice in furm hing tne honorable Congress
with reasons for unreasonable things, and
the member; with long speeches when they
would othevwife have had nothing to fay.
Sl ice then,thisp nil j.vr foufetul in our go
vern nent, we would propose that an aca
demy beinftituted u .derthe immediate pa
tron ige of the majority of the Senate and
House of Representatives, for instilling feai
in a higher degree into our youth ; and
we have no doubt but it would contribute
much to making good citizens. It would
also save many a valuable soldier in
cur indian wars, for if our military were
no ? under the influence of fear, the}
wjuid notftay to be shot at like woodcocks,
but runaway, and thus flop the furthei
effufion of human blood. [Gen. Ad.
T • superior court of New-Jersey, helc
<■: rentoii last month, conferred the de
jj.e; of Sergeant at Law on Flilha Bou
chnot and Joseph Bloomfield, Esquires.
The eel Nrated THOMAS PAINE, jufl
before embarking at Dover for France, ir
consequence of his being elected a membei
of the national convention, had not onl;
liis travelling trunk and baggage, but ever
his pockets learched at that place by the
collector of the cuftouis, for prohibited
articles. Mr. Paine has written a long
letter of remonstrance to Mr. Secretary
Dundas on this fubjeft, chiefly grounding
his complaint on the powers claimed by
the officer of examining private letters and
papers.
The question in America is no longer be
tween federaliiVn and anti-federdiifm, bat
between republicanism and anti-republi
canifin. The censures which have abound
ed, have ilfued as much from the uniform
friends as from the former opponents ol
the constitution, and have been directed a
gainst particular laws and proi ? dings on
ly. The constitution itfelf is seen and felt
to be firmly eftablifned. Part of the dis
like to it was extinguiflied by the amend
ments. Many acquiesced, as good "citizens,
out of republican refpeft to the fair deci
sion of the majority ; and are now anion?
its best supports. Tooppofe the consti
tution, would be every where as unpopu
lar as it is otherwise to blame certain often
five proceedings. It is a fuft not to be
queltioned, that the government is disco
vered, on experiment, to pofTef, an effici
ency and ftreilgth equal to the ufmolt hopes
of its sincere friends According to the
opinion of many,it has gained; accordingtc
the opinion of none, 101 l power, iii the
, r -i'o''reiv of its operation, f£ is now fuffi
ciently clear, aiio, that some wlio have
pafled under the name of federalilts, have
views far beyond those Of the friewds
to the constitution in its present form.
Thev have embraced it, because they look
ed on it as a promising efl'ay towards a
fyllem of anti-republican orders, and ar
tificial balances. To this ultimate object
the politics of a certain party areunquef
tionablv pointed. The progress ot its
leaders, in inculcating their doctrines and
maturing their councils, is become too se
rious to be disregarded. A language in
praise of monarchical andariftocratical in
flitutions, and in derogation of our repub
lican fyltcms, which would ltot have been
whispered a few year:, pad, is becomingfo
familiar in certain scenes as scarcely to call
forth observation. In this posture and
profpeet of things, all true friends to li
berty ought to be on their constant guard
against iniidious attempts to divide them
byan abuse of names, and to unite firmly
in checking the career of monarchy, by
bearing tSitimony against its advocates,
keeping continually in mind that it is not a
question now between federalifnt and anti
federalifm. but between repubiicanifm and
anti-republicanism. [A. Daily Adv.[
It is evident (fays a correlpondent) that
not a few are treating the " Defence of
the Constitutions of the United States,'
in the manner a certain well known boo!;
has been too often treated in times past ;
both fides making it a nose of wax, to fui
their own purposes. While one endeavor?
to m ike out the author of the Defence
an arrant aristocrat, or even monarchic,
from certain paflages quoted—others at
tempt to prove him a rtaunch republican
on the of fentencefeie-Tied per
haps only from the next page. Amid.lt so
much contrariety, how shall we come at
Truth?— For my own part, I have read
" this celebrated Defence" with some at
tention, and, from the contents, hold the
Title Page to be atotal Misnomer.
By English papers, received by the lalt
Packet, all was quiet at Paristhe latter end
of September. Some disturbances had agi
tated Orleans and Lyons, but by the exer
tions of the Affemoly, the firft were quell
ed. and iteps were taken to restore tra.il
quOity in the lalt mentioned place.
It is mentioned in the North-Carolina
Journal of the 14th inltan', that depreda
tions are daily committed by the Indians
in the vicinity of Nafhville —and that a mi
litary force was collected under General
Sevier, who was about to march into the
Indian country, from whose exertions an
important blow was expected.
—
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
The following extratt of a letter from
Thionville was read in the convention
on the 27th of September.
" While our enemies Were firing upon
us, the citizens were wonderfully cooi
and composed ; not a woman was heard
to fay a single word. The persons whe
fuftered molt were the lafl to- complain-
On the contrary they considered it as an
honourto receive damage from the bombs.
Our enemies are itill encamped below the
wood of Vineranche, but we are not a
fraid of them. The inhabitants will fuf
fer themselves to be buried under tlie ru
ins of the place, rather than fiirrender.
A magazine of forage was taken from the
enemy a few days ago. The troops as
they returned sung the air of Ca ira.
The belieged placed a wooden horse or
the ramparts, with a bundle of hay in its
mouth, with this infeription. When the
iiorfeeats this hay, Thionville will fiirren
der. Though our artillery is constant!)
employed in diffcnarging bombs and bul
lets at the enemy, gaiety still prevails a
mongst us. On Sunday our wives anc
daughters danced around the batteries.
So much che irfiilnefs and tranquility ne
ver prevailed in any town. We know
not who informed your printer so badly,
when he inserted in his journal that the
firing continued only one quarter of ar.
houi", and that three bombs only fell in
the town. It commenced at midnight,
and was not over at two. We receiveci
more than a thousand bombs, and found
Soli ot of 11 pounds weight-each.
"This morning the general returned with
fifteen waggons loaded with flour, fait,
meat, soap, iL'c. carried off from the ene
my. Not having waggons enough to bring
all the proviliods away, he ordered the
reft to be thrown into the river. This
capture is estimated at more than a milli
on."
Abflra't of the late intelligence received
at New-York on Wednesday last by the
British October Packet.—(This Packet
brings Englilh accounts to the 4th ol
October.)
ON the 28th of September the National
Convention of France received a 1 ester
from General Montefquiou, dated Cham
berry capital of Savoy) Sept. 22. In
thai "iet.er lie informs the convention, that
he had made himfelf inafter of the whole
coimtrv from the borders of the I fere to
the Lake of Geneva- The flight ot tne
despotic troops was so rapid that he found
it impoflible to come lip with them. The
booty taken from them, however, was im
mense, and all this gained with 12 battal
lions againrt ij,coo men. He had taken
poflelfion of Anneci, Carouge, Touron,
and in about eight days more expeifed to
make Bimfelf mailer of the whole coun
try frcmi Geneva to Mount Cenis. The
French were every where received v. itli
an ecftacy of joy by the people, who had
for Co many ages bowed under the yoke oi
arillocracy and tyranny, and who inrtant
ly aflumed the three-coloured cockade —
Orders were given to receive taxes in the
name of the French nation—the people
were every where dilpoled to bring about
a revolution in Savoy like that of Fraflce —
the booty taken from the enemy, was an
immense quantity of tents, kettles, and e
very species of camp baggage ; jooo muf
quets, 3000 sacks of wheat, 10, 000 cart
ridges, a large quantity of powder, grena
dier hats and caps innumerable, an "mi
ni-'life quantity of fait, and about 30,00 c
livres in money. It was thought Savoy,
being thus rescued from defpotii'm wouk
be £lUblilhed by the people into a repub
lic tinder the protection of France. —The
city of Lisle had received a summons tc
surrender, bot answer was made to the
German General, that the inhabitants hac 1
iuit renewed tlieir oath to be faithful tc
the nation, and were determined to main
tain the cause of liberty or die at their
ports.—On the 20th of September an en
gagement took place between General
Kellerfnann, commander of the French
Middle army, and the combined forces oi
:he Auftriaiis and Prussians. The eneinj
made ths attack at break of day on the
advanced guard of the French, which fel
>ack, at the Came time making a relolute
iefence. The enemy was in great force,
ind marched in several columns. Not be
ng able to make an impression on the ar
:ny, they extended their line on the right
A Gen. Kellermann, under cover of ar
inmenfe artillery. The French then ran
ged in order of battle, and not wit hit and -
ng a ra her disadvantageous position, the
3attle was maintained from 7 in the morn
ing till the fame hour in the evening—The
tannonade 1 ailed 14 hours, in which the
French 101 l many gallant men, in all 250.
killed and wounded—the enemy's lots 111
tavalry and artillery was said to be prodi
gious.—The besieged garrison of 1 hion
i'ille Oil! held out, on the latter end oi
-September, occupying the attention c:
:8,000 Aurtrians and Heliians: the garri
"on had recently Tallied out and taken ij
waggon loads of proviiions from the ene
my.—Lisle was beiieged by 20,000 men.
Sut not likelv to be taken; as it \ve7uki re
quire at least 100,000 to invert it com
pletely. The garrison conlirts of 5500 fool
and 800 hdrfe. " The inhabitants and gar
rison in the highest spirits, and prepared tc
Tacrilice every thing in the caule of liber
ty.—M. de la Fayette had been openly in
tuited by the people in palling through Co
logne, and had it not been" for his gtiard,
would probably have been maflacred. He
was on the point of removal from the state
prison of We fel to that of Spandau, in up
per Saxony.—A fleet had failed from Tou
lon on an expedition againrt Pieamoni
(Savoy) and a land army had also march
ed to iecond their attack.—On the 30th o:
September the pofitiom of the hostile ar
mies on the French frontiers were the
fame as iince the engagement on the 20th
Private conferences had taken place be
tween commanders anel officers on bot!
lides : The PrufiJans were in the utnioi
diftrrfs for want of proviiions and forage
and there was 110 doubt but they had of
fered to ascertain the liberties of Franc,
ort the basis of a limited monarchy ; whicl
was not lilfened to —Divilions fublifteel
tween the Pruflians, the .aurfrians aiul the
French emigrants : the latter were despi
sed by the" former—A negociation fm
peace was said to be carrying on betweei
the king of Prifffia anel Gen. Dumourier-
The French had at sea, when these ac
counts left Europe, 102 velleis of war,
in lhips ofthe line, frigates, packets, &tc.
refitting, 53 (hips of the line, 43 frigates—
Marlhal LUckrfer was at Paris, bttt order
ed net to leave it till the military com
mittee ihoulel deliver in their report rela
tive to his letter to the convention. Hit
conduit in Brabant, in general, would it
was thought induce th? convention to im
pend him, as Generaf HiniO. Hi- letter tc
the convention is as follows :
" I have come to Paris on the invitation
of the executive council, in order to be
consulted relative to the operations of the
war. ....
" Do not doubt of the eagerness which
I had to repair to the National Conven
tion, not in order to pay my compliments
to it, but to teftify my fati&facfioft at it;
labours.
" You u a ve conflituted yourklvcs a re
public very well : but it is necessary that
every onelhould have a liable and Honora
ble port.
"Calumny has environed and punned
all my actions. I have l.ot _ the urt oi
speaking, but I know how to fight.
They forget what I have done for the
commonwealth; they forgot my conduit
with refpeft to La Fayette ; my pohtioi:
was such in refpeft to him, that he could
have put rne into the greatell embarrafl
cisnc.
" They do not mention what I did id
regard to the affair of the icth of August.
It "was I who prepared the minds of the
army, previous to the arrival of the com'
miffioners from the National Afl'embly ;
and they must render me the justice to
that they but compleatsd my work.
"I haVe been ridiculotifiy reproached
with an intention to march the army a
gainst Paris; but what wiH serve as a re
ply to such calumnious reports, is my pof*
terior nomination as Generalifliino, in or
der to aid all the chiefs of the army with
my advice and counfei.
" Ir has been aflerted that I have a foii
in the Emperor's service; the truth is,
that both my ions are in the service or
Denmark, and that France has never had
any occailon to complain of them.
It is time, 1 acknowledge, that all
doubtful characters (hould disappear ; but
is is also proper to environ vi. tnous men
with that confidence without which they 1
cannot do any thing.
•' I have grown old under arms •, honor
is every thing with me—l have pafied
through all the military gradations ; my
heart is French—l wilh to live and to die
for the canfe of liberty—receive my oath
offidelity and obedience to everypoint of
view.
(Signed) " LUCKNER."
The armies of Gen. Dnmourier and
Kellermann conlifl: of 69,000 men ; and at
different towns between Paris and Chalons
were stationed Bo,cco volunteers Ihe
blockade of Montmedi continued, w ithc
little aition on either fide—The generals
of the northern and central asm es of
France having notified the executive coun
cil that overtures had been made to themy
on the part of the king of Prussia, desiring
to enter into a negociation ; the follow
answer wasdecrecd by the council—" The
French republic will not hear any prt.po
fitiotls before the Prnffiart troops have en
tirely evacuated the F'rench territory."—
The remitter at war had fsnt in his resig
nation, declaring that the state ofhis health
would not permit him to remain longer in
office.—The Duke of Brunfwick had pe
remptorily refufed any liberation of th«
Marquis de la Fayette, or his companions
on parole ; and there was every reason tcf
"uppofe, that they would all be bronght ;
in a ihort time, to trial.
[From the latejl London papers~\
A Ruflian lieutenant.gjeTn al is at this
moment, at the head of a bed) Of Poliftl
troops, in the grand Duchy of Lithuania s
The ambaflador of that nation regtla es
sfrery thing in the capita). Tfc • and
(lis tfmiifters have been obliged to i.gn all
the declarations preferrted to them, and
Poland is now, to all intents and purpo
ses, a Ruffian province.
The ideif among the confederates
France, is by no means that of
the ancient despotism. I hey are well a
ware that such it prejeft would be vain
snd chimerical ; that the temper of the!
times, and t!ie state of political knowledge,
ivoiild render it impracticable, if it were
?ven desired. If they therefore were ta
succeed, and of course fumlnon a free
parliament, the measure Would be to of
fer them a conflitution, which has been
planned by characters we are not at liber
ty tonaine,the basis of which is monarchy,
and perhaps the amended restoration of
the old States general
ftice, a fine city on the Mediterranean,
belonging to the king of Sardinia, is the
object of the French fleet from Tojdon.
Gen. Anfejme has marched against the
fame place at the head of 6oco -choice
troop;. The king of Sardinia will proba
bly io'fe tiie far greater part Of his domi
nions by joining in the confederacy of def- -
pots agaittff France. s
A new camp is going to be established
nnder the walls of Paris. Sixty-four tliou
fand men are demanded for the camp.—
On the 29th of September an ar'reft was
ferv'ed i:pon the king, for trial, and sous
comttihTiorier's named. A bloody t;iix pre
vailed iii the Prliflian army, which carried
off vail numbers, from their having lived
much on raw vegetables, and their only
allowance a pound of bread in three
days'.
The following nnnnifhed letter was
found in the pocket of the Prince de Ligne,
who was killed by the French 011 the 14th
of September. "We begin to be dilp'.eaf
ed With the war. The emigrant', prtiiaif
ed us more butter than bread.. We nave
to fight with troops of the lir.i, w ho never
desert, and with national guards who refill
our utmost efr'orts. We every where find
armed peafailts, who fire on our troops.
The bad weather renders the roadifii
paffable ; v, e cannot drag oor cannon thro'
the mire ; add-to all this famine. We
have great difficulty to procure bread ft?
the soldiers ; they seldom tw never eat
fiefh ; we were fix or fei>en days without
-1 a ting any thing hot. Our (hoes and clothes
are nothing.-'-Sometimes we have the 1
pleasure
PRICE OF STOCKS'
Six per cents. 21j~\
Three per cents. 12/7
Deferred, i3_/4
N. American J3NUMBER 111.
[Continued from our last. J
To the Honorable Supervisor of the Excise,
for the diJlriS of Pennsylvania.
IN Mr. Claypoolc's Mail, a very cu
rious publication appears, without ad
dress or iignature ; yet clearly expressive
of the author. It leems to be intended
r.s a reply to the descriptive account o!
George Clymer's, Esq. journey to Pittf
burg, which was publiihcd, some time
ago in the Gazette of that p'ace. The
defer! ption, indeed; was so indiscriminate
ly fati ical, that I thought it, at lead, a;
great a reflection upon the character o:
us plain western folks, as upon the cha
radier of the honorable Supervisor of the
Excise. But Mr. Clyr.er will, perhaps
not agree in that opinion : for, although
the Pittsburgh writer intimates, that a
mong us, the rabble rules, and not the law
he, no doubt, conceives an aspersion of thai
kind to be trifling,in comparison with the
heinous olTence of exposing his fears 01
his foibles, to public dfrifion.
The Supervisor has attempted to vin
dicate his fame : and we mult be allow
ed, likewise, to deny the imputation call
upon us in the original publication, ai
Pitt(bur;r ; and fir.ee mod virulently re
newe.l, in the juflificatory memorial o
Mr. Clymer. Ido not mean, by way o
retaliation, to furnifh a narrative of thai
gentleman's never-to-be-forgotten peregri
nation (the ludicrous events of which
far exceed any thing that has yet beer
related) for, where folly and weaknef
merely are exhibited, I am content witl
laughing at the ore, and pitying the o
ther. By the malevolence cf his attach
upon the reputation and virtue of the in
habitants of the western counties, my at
tention is attracted ; and I cor,f;fs, thai
feeling, not only as an individual involv
ed in the odium of the charge, but as <
man interefled for the honour of humnr
nature, I blush at so unmerited, so in
discriminate, so uncommon a flar.der.—
That [ have not kaftily, or improperly
applied those epithets, will be fatisfafto
rily evinced, by a perusal of the feventl
paragraph of the Supervisor's counter
memorial: he there lays, "That he doe,
not pretend to dissemble his apprehension:
of danger to his person, in palling througl
that country: a danger which woulc
have j.iftified, to anyone in his predica
ment, any devises whatever, to escape tht
rage of a people, vehemently excited a
ga;nft the authority of Congress, in the
instance of the excise ; and inlligated tc
a state of actual insurgency againll the
government of the union ; openly, by e
dangerous confederacy, composed of al
most all the magistrates, other public offi
cers, and clergy ; but, covertly, as is ap
p-ehended, by a character in Weflmore
land, more influential than all the reft
A country, where some persons concern
cd in the revenue, had been barbaroufl)
and u nominioufly handled, by bands cl
arrr.ed men ; and where, as in proof,
even a military officer of the Uniter
States, having but a flight and accident
al conneSion with the excise, had beer
actually threatened, by men of some con
fideratton, with being scalped ; where
the president of a state circuit court, ex
prefsly gave, as one rezfon for declining
to take the depositions of witnefles, point
ed out to him, in the cafe of a tiot—the
odium to be incurred by it. And, finally
where the faint animadversions of tht
state courts, upon offences committed a
gainst the laws of the union, in such ca
fes, have afforded a real encouragement tc
them
Heavens ! what a flood of crimination
What a torrent of abufc! But frorr
what source do they proceed ? Is there
in fair reason, and candid observation
a cause to juftify them ?—No!—I wil
venture to assert, that they are nothing
more than the offspring of a cankerec
heart ; the visions of a perturbated fpi
rit ; the fpeftres and goblins of a d>f
ordered fancy ! Weak minds are ealil)
intimidated ; but the weakest mind may
have cunning enough to excuse its fears
by exaggerating the obje&s that excite
them. The Supervisor acknowledges
that he was terrified, himfelf ; and it was
therefore, to be expected, that he woulc
endeavor to terrify others. But, surely
it was trefpafling too much upon the pre
cepts of truth, religion and morality, tc
conjure all the ministers of the gospel, the
conservators of the peac?, ar.d, in fliortj
all the refpedtable citizens that inliabit the
weflern quarter of the state, into demons
of discord and sedition, for the sole pur
pose of excusing the farcical panic of a
colledtor of an odious excise.
There is something incongruous in the
diction of Mr. Clymer's signing the decla
ration of independence, at the fame time
that he acknowledges, that he would stoop
to any devise, to avert danger from his
perlon; for surely, fncli sentiments did
not dictate that inltrument ; nor was such
condudt the means of supporting it. Per
haps, indeed, the hon Supervisor was one
of those patriots who signed the constitu
tion, but did not vote at the decision ot
the momentous queflion ; a periodical
change in the delegation ofthisftate, be
fore the declaration of independence was
ready for formal attestation oi the dele
gates, having ccnferred, on several mem
bers, the honor of signing the deed, who
certainly had no (hare in the vote of the
ever-to-be remembered fourth of July,
1776. This is very properly called, (ac
cording to Mr. Clymer's exprefiion) put
ting his hand to the inltrument : The
heart might not be employed on the occa
flon.
To cr minate an individual falfely, is
pumfhable by municipal law ; while, by
the laws of honor, a severer penalty is in
flidted, that brings even the person of the
slanderer, not only into contempt, but
danger. To criminate a whole people, is,
surely, however, a crime of a deeper dye :
and when perpetrated by an officer ol
high r;nk, whose peculiar duty it is, U
conciliate the affections and obedience o!
the citizens, and to communicate true in
formation to the government ; languag<
affords no terms lufficiently energetic, ti
describe the infamy and turpitude of th<
offence.
Has the honorable the fupervil'or de
ervfd a charge of this heinous nature
A short examination of the fadts whicl
he lias (tated in support of his horrid de
fcripticn on the weft fide of All-ghan)
will evince He fays, that in that coun
try, some persons concerned in the col
ledtion of the excise revenue had been bar
barously and ignominioufly used by band*
of armed men ; that one officer had beer
threatened with the loss of his scalp, anc
that cornet Taylor had been menaced or
account of the protection which, it was
supposed, he designed to afford Mr. Cly
mer. Of the lad incident I entertain form
doubt ; but I admit, that there may be 1
/light foundation for the other aflertions
Where, however, is the pure region, ir
which the passions and vices of mankinc
do not occalionally produce outrages upor
the peace and order of society ? Are no:
the laws of the land incessantly violatet
in the city of Philadelphia ? I am told
indeed, that a robbery was once commit
ted in the house of the chief juilice of tlx
commonwealth, and that even the manfior
of the supervisor has been the fubj dt of <
midnight burglary—But shall it be infer
red therefore, that the city of PhiLdel
phia is in a state of insurgency, and-thai
its inhabitants, clergy and laitv, judges
and juries, are one notorious band ol
thieves and outlaws I Surely not. In botl
placesjuftice should be done; the inno
cent should be unreproached ; the guilt)
should be punished. Have the guilty dif
turbers of the peace escaped with impuni
ty in the weflern counties ? Mr. Clymei
knows, and I can prove, that in every in
stance they have been indidted, convidted
and punished according to law. lamat a
loss, indeed, to conceive what the honora
ble supervisor means, when he speaks oi
the faint animadversions of the ftaie courts,
because the power of our judges is limi
ted by the laws; and, I hope, he does not
wi!h to introduce new and extraordinary
penalties, the torture, and the inquisition,
to secure the executors of his darling ex
cise, or to protect Don Quixote excise
men.
I am aware, however, that it will be
urged that the persons who assembled at
Pittsburgh to petition Congress for the
repeal of the excise law, went beyond that
objedt, and resolved, in the mean time, to
avoid the society of excise officers, and to
adminifler nothing to their wants or to
their happiness, If I had exercised my
judgment on the occ lion, I should cer
tainly have dissuaded the members of the
meeting from a declaration of this design.
But what is the nature of the offence,
which is so much reprobated ? The duties
of hofpita'.ify, the courtesies of social life,
are regulated only by the laws of discre
tion and policy; and, admitting that
"ound discretion and good policy would
Slave prevented the obnoxious measure al
iaded to, or, acknowledging that it was
Lincanne&ed with an address to the federal
legiflatnre, and in fact, calculated to ob ■
ftruft the accomplishment of the end for
which the meeting was convened, tlill on
ly the characters of the men who a&ed
were refpor.fible ; their discretion, and not
mine, was the guide ; their reputation,
and not mine, (hould be impeached, Far
Lfs Ihould the irregular proceedings of a
few men, chosen with a legitimate view to
petition Congrels, be considered as proof,
that those who chose them were incendia
ries and insurgents ; that the church and
the forum, our pallors and our magistrates
w re aflociated in a traitorous combination
with the people of all ranks to subvert the
government! The very appointment ol
the meeting demonstrates a refpeift and o
bedience to the laws.
[VRemainder in our next.']
New-Tori and Philadelphia
STAGES,
AND
Bordenton, Burlington, and Trenton 01
Lamberton
PACKETS.
THE proprietors of the New-York and Phi
ladelphia Land and Water Stages,
to mention, that for the better accommodation o:
the pafTengers, they have removed their difreren
packet boats from ihtir former stand, at thi
Crooked Billet Wharf, to the wharf or dock im
mediately next below Arch-ftieet ; from whenci
a convenient packet b.>at starts for New-York
as usual, on every Sunday, Tuesday, Wednefda;
and ThurfJay, and returns on every Tuef«la|
Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The pafiage ti
be made either by the way of Bordenton 01 Bui
lington ; each place taken alternately.
Fare for pafl'engers from Philad. to N. York 15
For goods per* Cwt* do 6J
Van Emburgh and M'Kean,
David Williamfon,
P oprieton of the line of JSFeiv Totk and Pbiladel
pbia JJagcs, by the *out of Bordenton,
Jacob Myers,
.Amos Hutchin,
Nicholas Schenck,
Proprietors tf the line of Netv York and Phifadtl
fhia stages, by the rout of Burlington.
Bordenton, Oft* 1.
For freight or pafFage apply to the mailers 01
boars, or to
M'Kean and Van Emburgh;
Who have for lale at their store on said wharf,
immediately next bel">w Arch-ftieet,
0!e Madeira, 1 Muscovado, *>
Teneriffe, and >Wines. Loaf, and [ Sugar
Mountain J Lump J
Jamaica Spirits, Molailes,
Antigua, 1 Coffee,
M ontferat & >Rum. Chocolate,
Newbury J Bohea Tea,
Rochelle Branny Burlington Pork,
in pipes, cases and Hams,
demijohns, Flour,
Gin in pipes and cases, Bar Iron, See. See. See.
Orders for Grain, Staves, Bills of Scantling, o
other L umber, punctually attended to.
Fur freight or pafiage to Lainbsrton Oi
Trenton, apply at said wharf to Thomas Aflv
moore, Wil'iam Douylafs, John Afhmoore <>:
Alexander Pouglafs, (Matters on board) or a
abov?, to M'Kean Sz Van Emburgh.
P. id Ipliia, O&ober 6, 17c 2.
CHARLES BITTERS,
AV 120, South Market, near Four'.h-Jlrcct,
Has received from New-York, and ma
nufactured by Lot Mcrktl,
A and general afi'ortment of
Muffs and Tippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
'Jreat Coats, Caps, Mitts and Gloves linet
with Fur, which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lowest prices.
Nov. 24- 2awtf
Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, New. 2Cth, 1792.
THE stockholders of the bank of thf
United States are hereby informed,
:hat according to the ilatute of incorpora
:ion, a general election for twenty -five Di
-eftors will be held at the bank of the
LJnited States, in the city of Philadelphia,
)n Monday the seventh day cf January
lext, at ten o'clock in the forenoon.
And pursuant to the eleventh fettion oi
:he bye-laws the stockholders of the said
jank are hereby notified to aflemble in ge
neral meeting, at the fame place, on
Thursday the eighth day of January next,
it five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the Prelident and Direftora..
JOHN KEAN, Cathier.
t- J- J-
W A N T ED,
A Journeyman Book-binder,
To go to Carlijle.—
A PERSON who is capable of petformlng
neat Binding and Lettering, will receive
good wages. The particulars to be ascertained by
LEWIS WEIS% Atch-ftreer, 159, Phi
aldelphia. Nov. 13. 41, taw
*~yl &ara ain /
For ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS f
WILL BE SOLD,
A Private LIBRARY,
OF two hundred and twenty-seven volumeS|
(Chiefly Greek and Latin ;)
Among which are, several fcarcc and valu
able editions of the Classics.
Further particulars may be learned, on
personal application at No. 26, Pear-street.
TO BE SOLD.
BY public sale, on Friday the 14th of De
cember next, at three o'clock P,M. at the
house of Malkel Mills in Roads town, Weft-
Jersey, Cumberland county, a house and lot of
ground, I<ite the property of Ananias Sayre, de
ceased, containing about nine acres situated at a
place known by the name of Sayre's crofs-roaos,
West-Jersey, Cumberland county. Jc is in a ve
ry healthy, plentiful part of the country, and
very beautifully situated at the north weft corner
of fa'rd cross roads. It is particularly well fuit
ted for a store, or a tradesman of any description.
More need not be said in describing the place,
as it is prefum» d any person wanting to purchase
would firil fee the premifcs. Terms of pay
ment to be made known at the time and place
sale—The laic to be made by
LEONARD SAYRE.
Executor to the estate of Ananias Sayre tfeceafed;
Nov. 28. 1792, iiw.ew
KID, and Co.
PERFUMERS, &c.
fiave just imported in the P I G O U, and other
late arrivals from Europe, and now open f.>r
Sale, at their store, No. 222, in Maiket above
S«xth-ftveer,
A Z' neral ajfortment of the following
GOODS, viz.
LADIES' and Gentlemens* japaned drefling
cases complete, of ail forts
Geiuiemens' shaving cases, powder bags, boxes
and powder putTs of ail forts
Tortoifhdl, ivory, and horn combes, of all kinds
Too'h brufli*s> dragon roots and tooth powder
All kinds of the best cloaths brushes
Ladies 4 tortojDiell Aiders for the hair
Best Windfojr soap, all kinds of wash balls
Ponder milks and court-plaifter
Silk purses am! gloves tops
All kinds of raifors, warranted
Pocket, pen, and sporting knives
ScilTors of all kinds
inching, curling and spring irons
A general aflbrtmeut of pocket-books, laiic
thread-cases and etwes
Best Englifli, Chtfhire, and Gloucester cheeles
Wax, wax candles, and sealing- wax
Ir'efTage cards of ell kinds
All kinds of ha'.r powder
Engliih, French, and other pomatums
Tamboured, Caflimier and xnuflincc waiftcoas
patterns.
An elegant effort merit of
Ready ma-de Milinary,
Confiding of lull dress, Caps, Hats, aui Bonnets.
Fine chip hats
Black an J coloured beaver hats, best quality
An afTbrtmentof the moll falhionable ribbons
And beadi f r trimmings and other ornaments.
ilj'r • 'ikewifc received a f'cjh fvpply ef
MILK of ROSES.
They 'org leave to inform the ladies, that they
:onti,iue to make all kinds of ornamental falfe
la : r upon an entire new method, and of so light
ind easy a conftrufiion, that they lookbetter thaa
■vhen a lady is drefled by the most expert hair
irrlTer.
An aiT-irtment of elegant cut Steel Watch
Chains, Seals, Watch Keys, &c. with a variety of
goods, too tedious to enumerate.
November 10. aaw .
Manufactured and for Sale,
At No. IX, North Sixth-Jlre-et,
Fashionable Round Top and Flat
BUTTONS,
Warranted superior to any imported of
equal price.
Country Store-keepers supplied either in
small or large quantities, By
S. POST & Co.
N.B. Conkftiel Buttons, Buckles, &c.
OA. 17. eawtf
*»* Two neat Editions of the Laws
of the United States for sale at this office
(No. 209 Marketflreet) in folio and oda
vo,&price 22/gy 15/ bound—N.B. The
Laws of the Infl Sefjion, in octavo only, man
be hadfeparate, price three eighths of a dollar,
For sale, at the printing office, a few copies
of thejirfi tyolume of the National Gazetle.
PRINTED BY
C HILDS and S WAI'TE
AT THEIR OFFICE NO. 209, HICH S 7 EtT
FIFTH-STREET,
PXILADEIFHIA.