[Numb. iBofVoL. ll.] SATURDAY, December 29, 1792.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
On Sunday lajl arrived at New-? ori
the ship Ncjior, Cap. Colquhoun, in
nine weeks from Clyde. Ihe account
Irought by this vessel relative to trench
affairs fully confirm those in our pffl num
bers—As every article of intelligence from
that quarter is now become in the highefl
degree interejting, we copy from the papers
Irought by ths Nefior the fallowing detail
of affairs down to the I 2th of OSober.
French National Convention.
Wednesday October 5.
Letter from the council of the diftr:£l of
Lisle, to the council of the department
of the North—dated Lisle, October 1.
" Since the departure of the National
Gendarmes, whom we dispatched to you
yederday, the enemy have kept up a hea
vy fire upon the city. They have fired
cold and red hot bails, befxdes bombs,
which have destroyed and set fire to a
number of houses, particularly in the pa
rifli of St. Saviour. Every pofiible af
iiftance has been given to that quarter.
We wiffi here to lileiice the calumniators
of the people, and to show them with
what calmness, tranquility and cotidancy
those of Lille support the inevitable mis
fortunes of the situation in which we are
—In one place we behold a father who
loft a child—in another, a husband who
has 101 l his wife, and who, without mur
muring, pays a tribute to fuffering nature,
by faying, " Notwithstanding all this, the
villains (hall not have the city." In a
third place people are seen carrying with
them whatever thiy can snatch from the
flames It mud undoubtedly be allowed
that the enemy carry on a villainous war.
They make use of the inhabitants of the
country, and by beating them with their
sabres and Hicks, compel them to work
on their fortifications. If they endeavour
to run away, they (lop them by firing af
ter them. When (hall we be avenged on
these monflers ? It is ten o'clock and the
fire begins to slacken ; the fire in the
night time will be terrible ; the enemy
have changed their batteries, but depend
upon us, we (hall never yield ; 200 hou
feg have been burnt, and 2000 are more
or less damaged."
Lisle Oft. 3, See.
" Citizen President, we beg you to in
form the National Convention, that the
enemy have not ceased, since the 29th of
Sept. to throw into the city a (hower of
bombs and red hot bullets, which have de
ilroyed a great part of our mod beautiful
edifices. Nothing can be more capable of
inspiring courage into the mod timid,
than to fee with what conflancy our fel
low citizens, who are deprived of their
property and habitations, support their
misfortunes. The love of their country
excites their courage, and diipofes them
to resignation. We know, that the na
tional convention, seconded by the execu
tive power, will do every thing they can
to relieve us. Individuals afiift U3 with
their purses and their fortunes, but these
means will soon be exhausted. Hasten
then to give us your aid. We will fuffer
ourlelves to be buried under the ruins of
our walls rather than surrender."
On a proposition made by M. Manuel,
the convention decreed, that the commit
tee of war should immediately concert
with the ministers, and during the present
fitting, devise some decisive means for the
affillance of Lisle.
Letter from Gen. Cuftine to Gen.
Biron, head quarters general at Spires,
Sept. 30. Sic.
" My dear General,
" You know, that, agreeable to the
plan you adopted, I was to attack Spires,
in which there were 4000 Auftrians, or
troops of Mayence, and magazines said
to be of some consequence. I wi(hed to
execute this plan as soon ae the army I
By P. FRENEAU: Published Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum..
command was organized ; but being pre
vented by bad weather, I took advan
tage of the firll moment it was pofiible
for me to march to collefl my army at
Landau. The roads however, being
spoilt by the rains, rendered my march
very fatiguing, especially that of the bo
dy which I conducted, and which was
deftinedto cut off the retreat ofthe enemy
towards Worms. Having set out at
nine in the evening 011 the 29th it was
two o'clock next afternoon, when I ar
rived at the entrance of those roads which
lead from Spires to Worms and Manheim.
I found the Auftrians drawn up in order
ofbattle before Spires, having on their
right an eminence, which is above the
gate that looks towards Worms, a ravine
before them, and there left extended, a
mong some gardens surrounded with
thick hedges.
'• I did not hesitate a moment to at
tack them in this position, and dire&ing
against their line a heavy fire of artillery,
which protested my own line while for
ming, I marchcd at the fame time upon
their left four battalions, destined to take
poffefiion of the eminence which comman
ded them. They soon determined to re
treat within the walls of the town.—
Having tried for a moment to force the
gate by my cannon, I preferred, when 1
saw the ardour with whi :h the troops
were animated, the making an attempt to
cut them down with their hatchets. Ha
ving proposed this method, it was eager
Iy received, the fire gate being demolilh
ed, and then that of the inner wall, the
Auftrians were repulsed in every quarter:
but taking (helter in houses, in which they
formed port-holes, when our troops were
engaged in the (Ireets, the enemy com
menced a moll terrible fire on them. As
I, however, had taken the precaution to
place at the heads of the columns some
howitzers and eight pounders, I was ena
bled to rally my troops, who were at firft
a little intimidated , and soon afur the
Auftrians thought of nothing but retreat
ing.
"Colonel Houcfiard, who had been
prevented by a great inundation from ap
proaching the banks of the Rhine, has,
however, been able to execute a coinrnif
fion I gave him with the regiment which
he commands, and he has taken 400 pri
soners. I resolved to pursue the enemy
in their retreat, and having come up with
them at the Rhine, they laid down their
arms. When in Spires they amounted to
more than 4000 men, Several colours,
standard, cannon, howitzers, and above
3000 prisoners have been taken in this
expedition—The Auftrians loft, beiides,
a great number killed. The magazines,
which we found here are immense.
•' I cannot at present give you any de
tails refpetling them. I mull concludc
my letter, for 1 am ready to drop down
with hunger and fatigue, having been
twenty-two hours on horse back, and the
troops as long under arms.
" I cannot conclude this dispatch, with
out commending the firmnefs of the soldi
ers. the paticnce with which they suppor
ted the fatigues of so terrible a march, the
discipline they observed, and the bravery
they displayed. I art? extremely happy
in having this day seen the cause of liber
ty triumphant. It adds to my pleafurc
that I have been able to moderate and
check the fury of the soldiers. 1 have
the fatisfaftion of faying that in a town,
taken by dorm, and where a firing took
place in all the streets, a single a£tion has
not been committed which I need blush
at.
"It gives me great happiness, my
dear general, after having found an op
portunity of inspiring my troops with con
fidence, aftet having carried away the
magazines of the enemy, and destroyed
their forces, to be able to join you, in or
der to save the departments of the Rhine.'
CUSTINE."
Saturday, O&ober 6.
Letter from the Mmijler of IVar.
Paris, Oftobcr 6, 1792.
Citizen President—The convention
will, doubtless, with pleasure fee, by co
pies of and extracts from, the letters of
gen. Cuftine, details of his ufeful and
glorious expedition; but you will learn,
not without pain, that the good conduct
of the troops, has been ltai'ned for a mo
ment by emiflaries mixed among the brave
defenders of their country, who have at
tempted, with a momentary success, to
introduce among them a system of plun
der and irregularity, which appears to be
the lad resource, or rather the lalt conspi
racy of the enemies of liberty and equali
ty —I hope the convention will approve
the severe but necessary condu& of gen.
Culline. The severity which he has em
ployed he thought necessary for the glory
of the French republic.
" Gen. Dumouiier informs me by letter
of some military operations, and that to
morrow he means to fend a fnfficient
force to drive the enemy from the de
partment of the North,
" I have this moment received Intelli
gence that, on a proposal made by gen.
Lamorlier, in conjunction with the mu
nicipality of Amiens, 400 or 500 of the
pick-men of the National guards of that
tawn, were to set out for L.i(le, on the
3d or 4th of this month.
(Signed) LeeKun,"
Letter from Gen. Cuflinc lo Gen. Biron*
" Spires, October 2.
" I promised you some details, and I
(hould have sooner discharged my promise
had not the difordera which prevailed here
yesterday and this morning prevented me :
this unhappy place was on the point of
being plundered, and to prevent this, as
well as the like events in future, I was
obliged to make an example of some of
my men, and to employ all the rigour of
military law. You will soon fee two
thousand nine hundred prisoners arrive.
lam going to fend immediately to the
national convention five standards.
Near 400 of the enemy were drowned ia
attempting to cross the Rhine. 1 hree
pieces of cannon were also loft, as also
two standards belonging to the division of
the dragoon 3of Tufcnny. 800 men
were killed : their wounds are dreadful,
as they were made by our cannon (hot
fired at a very (hort distance. A bank
of earth permitted 11s to place our batte
ries in such a manner as perfedlly to com
mand the enemy's line, while ours was
flickered from their cannon. Our batte
ries were erected under the shelter of this
natural parapet, and the column destined
to support them was luckily covered by
a riling ground. We loft, in consequence
very few men ; we had 20 killed and
wounded, among whom were two of
ficers. With regard to the magazines, I
have not yet been able to learn the state
of them. Four hundred waggons have
set out to day for Landau, and it does not
yet appear that the magazines are much
dimiaifhed.
(Signed) CUSTINE."
Lctle-r from the Jame.
Spires, October 3.
" Citizen Prefident—T have the ho
nor to inform the convention of a dispo
sition which I thought it my duty to
take refpeftlng the officers of the Aus
trian ticops, and those of the empire,
who laid down their arms on the 30th of
September. .:fter employing the usual
formalities, and having made them sign
an obligation not toierve till they are ex
changed, I furTered them to pass the Rhine
for two reafons—Firit, that they might
publish in the empire the vigorous manner
in which t'ney were attacked by the French
troops—-Secondly, on accouut of the fa
cility theii sbfence will give us of making
their soldiers our brethren and friends.
[Total No. 122.]
The reception which they met with on
their entrance into France will doubtless
change in the minds of these soldiers the
unfavourable impressions which had been
given them refpeding us. These impres
sions were such, that when they arrived
at Landau, they refufed the refrefhments
which were brought to them. Permit
me to embrace this opportunity of alfuring
the national convention, that my refpett
for the laws, and the representatives of
the people, is equal to the zeal and nrm
nefs with which I (hall defend liberty.
"P. S. I fend you, Citizen President,
some of the letters found on the offieers
who were taken prisoners. I think they
may be ufeful to the committee of fafety;
one of them in particular which appears
to have been written by thecidevant duke
de Bourbonne. The (tyle of it is enig
matical, but it may serve, by comparing
it with the fame kind, to afiifl in decy
phering them.
(Signed) CUSTINE."
These pieces were referred to the com
mittee of lafety.
Another letter from gen. Cuftine was
also read, stating that lie had imposed up
on the canons and bifl-.op of Spires, who
were great friends to the emigrants, a
contribution of 450000 livres.
The minister at war tianfmitted to the
convention a letter from gen. Montefquiou
in answer to an accusation made againO.
him, of having exaggerated the state of
the forces of the king of Sardinia. The
genera! founded his juftification on an ac
count found among the papers of the
Prince de Cordova, from which it rcf'jit
ed that the Sardinian troops between Nice
and Milan, amounted last year, though
in time of peace, to 74 battalions, 37
squadrons, forming 506 companies, 46,83b"
men, 3,470 horses.
The minister of justice sent to the con
vention the seals of the state in gold with
the Maces which wete carried bv the
Mace bearers of the chancery.
convention decreed,"" That these
articles, as well as the scepter and the
crown of the ci-devant king, and other
insignia of the like kind, (hotild be bro
ken and carried to the mint.
Everting.
Roux. " Citizens, I hnften to make
known to you the happy state in which
the armies of the republic arc in respect
to diseases. What lam going to read is
an extract of the report made to the mi
nister by Cofte, Parmentier and Sabarier,
three phylicians sent by the minister Ser
van to the armies and fortified towns,
" It is a very fatisfaflory observation
for the republic, that the proportion of
the lick, conndering the number of each
army, proves that it never was less ;
Such doubtless is the influence of liberty,
better and more abundant nourifliment,
and, above, all, the moderate use of wine.
'• The abfer.ee of the iifual heat has
exempted the armies from those maladies
which generally afflidt them in summer ;
and 89 the greater part of those of autumn
are owing to the heats of the preceding
season, the infpefting phyiicians have a
firm confidence that they will experience
none of 'this kind. The dysentery has
been less common than in some years of
peace : It has never afi'umed an invete
rate nppearaticejand the sick lifts announce
that there are not above one fiftieth part
of our armies in the hofpitais.
Thehofpitals are as e attentive and as
well disposed as wai requisite : They are
abundantly provided with every neccffary,
and those of cities threatened with a
siege, have a fufiiciency for fix months.
" On comparing the state of our armie
with that of the enemies you fee, citizenss
that every thing concurs to protedt our
I armies againll those of the tyrants, who
with to subjugate a free people."Letter from the Minister at War.
" Paris, October 6.
Jl Citizen President—l have received no
i ntelligence thi3 morning either from Ge
neral Oumourier,,or from the city of Lisle.
" General Kellerman informs me that
he continues to pursue the enemy. He
gives an account, at the fame time, of the
measures he has concerted with General
l >u:nourier, to secure mhre atld more the
triumph of tiie armies of the republic.—
News were eagerly expetted from General
Anfelm, charged with one of those expe
ditions so well planned under the miniltry
of the patriotic Servan—The fuccefsofit
has been equal to those in Savoy and at
Spires. I transmit to the convention a co
py of the dilpatches which I have received :
they contain an account of the capture of
Nice and Montalban.
(Signed) LEBR.UN, Minister at War
per interim.
Strnmafy of other news from France.
ExtraCl of a letter from the Minister of
War, to the i rejir'ent of the hcaici.i l
Cinvention, dated Ortober 9.
" Citizen President, I have no official
news from Lille ; the only dispatches I
have 1 eceived from our armies are from
General Biron, who fends me two letters
from General Cuftine. of which I subjoin
extracts; you will fe? by them that the
success of the armies of the republic is
what it ought to be. The city of Worms
is a new conquelt made by our troops for
liberty."
ExtraCl of a letter from Gen. Cuftine to
Gen. Biron, dated Spire, OClober 6.
" We have this night made a new cap
ture from the Auftr. as on the other fide
of Rhine, by carrying off all the boats from
Guineniieim to Manheitn. We also took
some hundreds of mufquets, 12 casks, and
8 chests of shoes, shirts, &c. with thirty
prisoners, and some horses. My soldiers
are animated with extreme ardor, and I
begin to hope that I shall eftablifii among
them a discipline nervous and ; folid. I
hasten the evacuation of the magazines.—
Two thousand nine hundred prisoners are
marching from this place for Strafburg.—
The officers have taken with them some
what more than 100 men, for whom they
are to answer ; and besides all these, 1200
were killed and drowned, and a few es
caped."
On the 10th of Ofto'oer a letter was read
in the national convention from the mini
ster for foreign affairs, in which he related
the proceedings between the French resi
dent and the council of Geneva, in conse
quence of which he withdrew abruptly
from that republic 011 Odtober 4. —The
difference arose, from a requisition on the
part of the Frcnth to punish filch of the
Genevefe magistrates, as had been active
in drawing Swiss troops into the republic
of Geneva, contrary to an existing treaty
which was disregarded. Gen. Montef
quiou, however, had orders not to employ
force in obliging these troops to depart,
but, for the present, renionftrance only.
The minister at war, on the fame day,
communicated the following extract of a
letter from General Dumourier :
" Vouziers, October 9.
" Patriot Minister,
" I have just divided into two parts the
army under my command ill the Ardennes.
The brave Kellerman my companion in
arms, and my intimate frieud, (notwith
standing all that has been said, done, and
written to excite aniniofity between 11s)
undertakes to chafe from our territory the
enemies who I aflure you will never enter
France again by this terrible frontier.—
Consternation and rnin contribute to watte
the army of the enemy, and Kellerman
will easily accomplish their destruction.—
The king of PrufJia is departed for Berlin,
where his army follows him. He lias had
a fnocking converf.ition with the two ci
devant princes of France. Pie reproach
ed them with having deceived him : he
told them that they had expoSed him to be
ill received in his own kingdom, and that
he would remember it to them all his life.
After this conversation, the truth of which
I guarantee to you, the two French princes
went to the cattle of Vouziers, from which
1 now write to you.
"We took such quantities of equipage
as to enrich our»foldiers. Yesterday the
carriage of Monsieur was brought in. We
avoid taking the waggons loaded with tick,
to save our army from contagion. In short,
I answer, particularly after the diversion
made at Spire, and after that which I have
planned with Kellerman, that the Ger
mans will not again penetrate into France.
I ihould be wanting to my duty of a Ge
neral, if I loft ten flayi in marching at the
head or the tail of the columns, and if I
did not on the contrary, employ them in
arranging with the council all the opera
tions which may give prosperity to our mi
litary affairs.
DUMOURIER."
Letter from General Dumourier to the
President of the Convention.
" Citizen President,
" The honor of the French nation has
been fuliied by two battalions of the Fe
derates of Paris. The minister ofwarwill
give you account of the measures which I
have taken to punifli the guilty. Our li
berty would be soon loft, if such a£ts were j
not suppressed.—l (hall deliver up to you
the dilturbers unarmed—do you appoint
judges for them.
DUMOURIER,"
The conduct of these two battalions
Manconfeil and Republican, was explained
in a letter from General Chazot, command
ing at Rhetel. Four Pruflian deserters had
bee 1 taken prisoners, who, according to
the report of the municipality, were delir
ous of entering into the service of the Re
public. These two battalions fell upon
them in the mod inhuman manner,and not
withstanding the tears and supplications oi
their own General, like ruffians and but
chers, cut them in pieces. The orders of
General Dv.mourier were, that these two
battalions Ihould be surrounded by the ar
my, and forced to lay down their arms,
standards and uniforms. That they thould
be forced to deliver up the criminals who
committed the inhuman mnfiacro at Rhe
tel, who, under an escort of too men,
(hould conduct them to Pari,, and deliver
them up to the national convention—That
the reft of the battalions Should be broken
—their arms and habits laid up in the mi
litary (tore, and their colour.) sent back to
their diltriits, to be by them confided to
men more worthy to bear them. This
measure was highly applauded by the con
vention,
Communications read in the French Na
tional Convention, on Friday the 12th of
October.
Letter from the Municipal Officer* of the
city of Lijie.
" We are at length delivered from the
presence of the enemy, and are now Ihel
tered from the effects of their rage and at
trocious attempts against liberty and equa
lity. They carried with them the execra
tion of the universe, and the certainty of
paying dearly for the evils which they have
done, and intended to do to us. Two or
three thousand of their men killed or
wounded in this expedition of cannibals,
and all their heavy artillery entirely dis
mounted, or unfit forfervice, are the fore
runners of our vengeance, and have been
those of their retreat. We hope, Citizen
Prelident, that you will learn this intelli
gence with the fame pleasure as that with
which we announce it."
One of the Secretaries read tlie follow
ing letter from the minister for foreign af
fairs.
" A letter from Berlin, addrefled to the
Prufiian minifter,Bifchoffwerder, has fallen
into my hands. The convention will
doubtless learn with Satisfaction the efl'ect
produced in the itates of our enemies by
the plans which they have formed and are
executing against us :
Letter to the Prussian Minister.
" The removal of the money sent to the
army has made a deep impreflion on the
minds of the people here. It is much to
be wilhed that the Pruflian government may
be more circumfpeft in future, and that
those employed in the war department may
be more prudent in their operations.—
When the citizens saw the savings of the
great Frederic rolled towards the banks of
the Rhine, they (lied tears. It is supposed
that twenty-four millions have been sent
off already. Prince Henry, on his return
to Carfbold, said to M. Munckkouzer, that
rj millions had already palled through
JVlerfbourg. The general opinion is, that
the treafurv is exhauftcd. This whim of
the prince deprefies the courage of his fub
jeits,and produces a bad effert in foreign
countries. The declaration of the duke
of Brunfwick is much blamed. Prince
Henry, who detests the duke with all his
heart, does justice however to his abilities;
"but had any one a fin red me." said he,
" that such a manifefto would appear, I
would not have believed it." Profeflbr
Kheftner, at Gottingen, has written a moll
Severe epigram on the part which the king
ofPruftia has taken in this war. The epi
gram, which is circulated here, is in Sub
stance as follows :
' God one day wished to spare a city, on
account of one just man who was in it. At
present, a German prince wifhesto destroy
all France, for one crowned fool who is in
it.'
" Hiltory shudders, and tbe German peo
ple call the prince, as they formerly called
Atilla, the scourge of God. It is gene
rally doubted whether this enterprize a
gainst France will have a happy iflue. It
was previously known that Longwy and
Verdun would open their gates. When
the news of the siege of the latter place
arrived here, Count de Schmettau said, —
' they will throw a few bombs into it. as
they did at Longwy, in order that they
may be able to tell us that they took it.'
Signed, &c.
" Such, Citizen-President, are the news
sent from Berlin to the Pruflian minister,
by a man who was doubtless charged to in
form him refpefting the disposition of that
capital. Such a Source ought not to be
suspected. The different letters which I
have received from Germany, announce
to me that our fuccefTes have, with great
rapidity, given the public opinion a turn fa
vorable to our cause : They prove, above
all, that we are as much indebted to the
conduct as to the courage of our soldiers
for that esteem which we inspire into the
people of different nations, and which
will serve to throw a little reliraint upon
the combination of courts.
(Signed) LEBRUN."
The President announced a letter from
General Dumourier, in which he requeu
ed leave to come and present his respects
to the national convention. The conven
tion having immediately decreed that the
General should be admitted, he appeared
at the bar, accompanied by fevera't of his
ftaff-officers.
General Dumourier's Speech.
" Citizen-Legijlators,
" LIBERTY is every where trium
phant : Guided by philcfcphy, it will o
verspread the univerl'e, and it will ei'ab
lilh itfelf on all thrones, after having crufli
ed defpotifin, and enlightened the people.
" The conflitutional laws which you are
about to frame, will form the balls of the
happiness and fraternity of nations. This
war will be the last, and tyrants and pri
vileged orders, mistaken in their criminal
calculations, will be the fo'e viflims in this
struggle of arbitrary power against reason.
The army, which the confidence of the
nation entrufled to my command, have de
served well of their country. Reduced,
when I joined them, on the 28th of August,
to 17,000 men, ami disorganized by trai
tors, whom punifliment and shame every
where pursue, they were neither intimida
ted by the number, discipline, threats, bar
barity, norfirtt fuccefFes of Bo,oco fateliites
ofdefpotilm. The defiles of the sorest of
Argon were the Thermopylx, where this
handful of soldiers of liberty made a re
fpeftnble refinance, for fifteen days, to that
formidable army. More fortunate than
the Spartans, we were supported by two
I armies, animated by the fame spirit, whom
i we joined at the impregnable camp of St.
Meqehouid. The enemy, in despair, wifil
ed to attempt an attack, which adds new
victory to the military career of my col
league and friend Kellerman.
" In the camp of St. Menehouid, the sol
diers of liberty displayed other military
virtues, without which courage even may
be hurtful—confidence in their chief, obe
dience, patience, and perseverance. That
part of the republic conliflsofa dry foil,
deflitute of wood and water. The Ger
mans will remember it; their impure blood
will perhaps fertilize these barren plains,
which are now drenched with it. The
season was uncommonly rainy and cold :
our soldiers were badly cloathed ; were
destitute of straw to lye upon ; had no co
vering, and remained sometimes two days
without bread, because the position of the
enemy obliged our convoys to rake a long
circuit, by cross-roads, which are very bad
at all seasons, and which were then spoilt
by the long rains; for I mult do justice to
the purveyors of provisions and forage,
who, notwithstanding all the obfhicles of
bad roads, wet weather, and the secret
movements which I was obliged to < on
ceal from them, supplied us with abun
dance, as far as was possible ; and I am
happy in declaring, that we are indebted
to their care for tiie good health of the sol
diers. [Applaufes.'J I never heard them
murmur. Songs and joy would have made
one take this formidable camp for one of
those camps of pleasure, where the luxury
of kings formerly embodied automata, for
the amusement of their miftrefTes and chil
dren. The soldiers of liberty Were sup
ported by the hope of conquefl ; their fa
tigues and fufferings have been rewarded;
the enemy have funk under famine, mise
ry, and disease. This formidable army,
diminished one half, has fled; the roads
are strewed with the carcafles of horses,
and dead bodies ; Kellerman is in pursuit
of them with more than 40,000 men, while
I (hall march, with a like number, to the
afiiftance of the department of the North,
and of the unfortunate and refpedable
Belgians and Liegeoife.
I have come to spend four days here,
' only for the purpose of fettling, with the
executive council, the plan of the winter
campaign. I embrace this opportunity of
presenting my refpe£ts to you. I fiiall not
take any new oath—l lhall (hew myfelf
worthy of commanding the children of li
berty, and to support those laws which the
sovereign people are going to establish for
themselves, by you their representatives."
[Loud applauses]
The Prefident''s answer.
" Citizen General,
" THE reception you have met with
from the national convention, will express
to you much better than I can their fatis
faflion with your conduit, and that of
your colleagues, and the opinion they en
tertain of you. Continue to dire£t the
courage and zeal of the army; continue
to guide your soldiers, and your brethren
in arms, in the path of honour and of vic
tory ; continue to serve your country with
fidelity, and you will have new claims to
the esteem and gratitude of the republic.
The convention invites you, as well as
your brethren in arms, to the honour of
the fitting."
The general was then introduced into
the hall, together with the officers who
attended him, and deposited his papers 011
the table, as did also Lieutenant General
Morton, his- military decorations.
Lafource, — 11 I move that theconventi
on will request General Dumourier to give
i them Tome information retpectirg the let
i ter of General Dillon."
Prefiiient, —"General, do yen know any
thing of a letter written by General Dillon
i to the Prince of Heffe-Cafl'el ? and do
■ yon know what was the intention of the
; General in writing it ? The National Con
vention expects some information from
; you, as the executive council informed
I them that they hoped you would be able
i to fatisfy them in this refpe£t."
Dumourier, —" I received a copy of that
letter, but I considered it a mere bravado,
and thought it of very little importance,
especially as Dillon,two clays after purfu
e<l the Hessians with the utmost vigour.
I am of opinion, therefore, that it is not
worth notice."
An Adjutant General of Dumourier's
army p'-efented to the convention the firft
standard which the emigrants had displayed
and which the soldiers of liberty had cou
rageously taken from the enemy.
The convention decreed, that this signal
of rebellion, instead of being hung in the
hail as a trophy, (hould be put into the
hands of the common executioner, to be
publicly burnt.
After some other bulinefsof little impor
tance, the fining rose at five o'clock.
German ascounts of ti'ar.failions in the
Low Countries.
The Leyden Gazette contains an account
of the progress of the Pruflian army on the
14th, 15th, and 16th of September, as pub
lished at Berlin.—This account, far from
imitating the (tile of the Brussels Gazette,
which never mentions the French troops
but With contempt, expressly fays : That
in the various actions thattook place on the
14th and 15th the Prussian troops were re
pulsed, and (hews, that although they al
ways carried their point in the end, every
inch of ground was warmly disputed. To
this account is subjoined a letter from the
army of General Clairfayf, dated Septem
ber 26th, written in the fame flile, which
makes the loss of the Prnflians, in carry
ing the height before the village of Wal
my 500 men, and that of tile French, at
tempting to defend it, J2CO. The conclu
sion of it fhevvs, that the distress of the
combined armies, has not been exaggerat
ed :—" Since the 17th, we have been un
der the open Iky, without tents or bag
gage. The weather all the while has been
dreadful; conlta.,;: and excellive rains, tem
pefttious winds, and cold uncommonly se
vere for the season. The armies on both
fides have fuffered severely; the latter fea
foil cannot be more unfavorable for tiie
operations of the campaign. According
to all the information we receive, the ene
my is still more diflrefi'ect than we. We
art? in the midll of Champagne Pouilleufe
(the lousy) a country arid <k j:-oorin the ex
treme, unprovidecl-&f every thing ; with
out water, without wood, almofta defart,
and entirely abandoned by the native in
habitants. We mult seek water more
than a league from our camp ; add to this
that the French have taken care to throw
lime into almost all the wells. They make
war with all the resources, not only of the
military art, but of the molt virulent ha
tred. It is not from the ordinary dangers
of a campaign that we mult guard our
selves but from treachery and perils of e
very kind. The transportation of provi
sion is thus rendered uncommonly difficult,
while the army must carry every thing
along with it, the country furnifhing no
thing. Y efterday,the 2jth, the enemy de
liianded'a truce for 24 hours, which was
granted and expires at midnight.
Luxembourg, Oct. 5. Since Monday,
September 24, numbersofFrenchprifoners,
the greater part of them national guards,
have been daily brought in here. A large
body of them was brought hither on the
twenty-ninth from Verdun, and about
100 hundred have arrived to-day. The
greatest part of these poor wretches are
in a molt deplorable situation, having
scarcely Ihoes or (lockings. They were
taken in different Urinal;;.es, which have
not however tended jiibih to advance the
operations of the combined armies. TUe
accounts which we have received from
Verdun are of the lr.oft diftrefllng nature.
The Prussian army has been in want of
bread for several clays ; and what they
have been able to procure by fending to
a great distance 'or it, did not reach the
camp until it had become green and moul
dy
The AuUrian army is in no better con
dition. The country around Verdun is
laid waste, ruined, and become almofta
defart; as it has not leafed to rain for 4
weeks, the roads are deltroyed and impas
sable ; they are belides covered with hun
dreds of dead bodies. By these disasters
the soldiers are difiouragec), and the offi
cers themfelvcs despair of feeing the cam
paign happily terminated.
Such being the situation of affairs, it is
expected that a Congress of ministers from
different powers will be opened here on
the 20th instant ; government has already
ordered lodgings to be prepared for some
of the ministers, and it is probably on ac
count of this Coi'grefs that government has
just pufclifhec! the following"" PROCLAMATION.
" Tho governor, preiident and members
of the sovereign council of the emperor
and appointed for tile country and
duchy of Luxembourg, and the county of
Chiny. AS it is important for the service
of his majesty, that this town and fortrefs
fhoukl be evacuated by all French people,
whether men, women or children, who
have taken refuge litre iince the com
mencement of the revolution in France,
and who hold no particular office, we, in
consequence of" the resolution of their
royal bigh.ieli'es the Governors General of
the Netherlands of the v.venty-eighth tilt,
order all the French people immediately
to quit tiiis town and fortrefs; informing
them, at the fame time, th;it they may re
tire to the country of Limbonrg, or into
any other place where they may throw nc
reltraint on the operations and march of
the troops —nor impede their communica
tions and their supplies ofproviiions ; and.
in order that they may not plead ignorance,
we charge the magistrates of this town, tc
cause thel'e presents to be publiihed anc
ported up in the usual manner.
(Signed) GF.RDEN.
"Luxembourg, OcL «, 1792."
LONDON, October 12.
Some harsh measures I»ave been used, ii
is thought, to oblige the king of Poland tc
lign his recantation. Nothing but the
threats of the torture could have forcec
him to ast so inglorioutly. Probably tilt
Empress will urge him also to recall the
medals prefentcd to thole perfems in thi:
country, who intererted themselves in the
Polilli subscription.
The Roman Catholics of Ireland, whe
have been divided with refpeft to the peti
tion to parliament, to grant them the right
of elective francliife, are now united, anc
young Burke, for what reason we know
not, continues their agent.
Of the truth of the Ruffian invasion, anc
the winter campaign they are to make ii
France, we may judge by the account of
their march. It has been (aid at Vienna
that they are palling through Poland, ai
the rate of 14 and 16 leagues a day !
A report prevailed yelterday infonie o:
the biflt circles, of tumults in Ireland be
tween the Catholics and Protertants, i:
which much blood had been shed. I;
cones indiftinftly, and, we hope, untruly
but was so far believed, as to be, at lealt
worthy of mention.
The Empress of Russia has got the mof
complete poffeflion of Poland, where fhs
means to support a very formidable mili
tary ertablilhment.
The ambali'adors from Prussia and Auf
tria, have each of them transmitted a r.ot<
to the Elector Palatine, fignifying thy
their imperial and royal majeflies expect
ed that, in comideration of the actual htu
ation ot the king of France, the Count d
Affigny, -minirter from that court, ihouli
be ordered to retire from the electorate
the was complied with according
ly-
Oct. 16.—The thrpe thousand men com
manded by General Winckelman, at Spire
have almort all eitlier been killed,or drown
ed in the Rhine, after a very gallant de
fence againfl: seventeen or eighteen thou
sand of the enemy's troops. The Frenci
were dirtant a league only from Kirch
heim-Pohland, from whence the Prince o,
Naflau Weilburg had haltily retreated t(
Weilbourg, carrying off the moil: preciou
ot his effects.
By advices from Cologne, dated the 6tl
inllant, it appears to be the intention o
the French General Curtine, to pulli 011 te
Mayence, Darmstadt, and Frankfort, ant
even to penetrate into theHeflian territory
Ihe inhabitants are all collecting tiieii
1110 ft valuable effects. A yatcht has con
veyed to Coblentz the Prussian military
chelf, the archives, church ornaments, &c
Letters from Lisle mention, that it w.t
M. Rualt, the commander, and M. Andre
the Mayor of that place, who perfuadec
the inhabitants, that it rather became then
to be buried beneath its ruins, than to sur
render. This advice, and the example
they set, had so great an effect, that the
Auftrians were obliged to raise the liege,
after having set fire to a great mimber ol
homes, ravaged the plains and environs,
and having themselves fuflained a verj
conliderable loss.
Letters from Manheim politively state
that an army of from 25 to 30,000 Ruf
fians will be before Landau, by the com
mencement of the ensuing month, and thai
the firft column, consisting of 6oco men.
has already reached Bohemia. Theft
troops will unqueilionably be joined by the
body of 2j,000 Hungarians, which is ex
pected to reach the borders of the Rhine
within the above period.
By the above advices it appears, that the
princes ot the empire arc to furnifh double
contingencies, and that the king of Prussia
has ordered the levy of frefli troops. Ir
this cale General Dumourier has formed e
very falfe opinion of the sentiments of this
monarch, whom, with the whole of hi:
army, he has sent back to Prussia.
OJ. 18. 1 he Duke of Brunfwjck, anc
his army, are ported at a place called Reg
near \ei dun—a very applicable port
for a baffled tyrant.
Prince Poto:ki has given an entertain
ment at Warsaw, in which the health of
Catharine of RulSa was drank, under a
(lifcharge of three hundred guns. The
accompanyment would have been more
fnitable to the toast, if every gun hadkilled
an hundred thousand persons.
At a meeting, called by the Lord Mayor
of Dublin, at the exchange there, on the
lothinlt. a proposal was made by his lord
thip, that Come public means should be tiled
to obtain subscriptions for the relief of the
French emigrants in Ireland. The mo
tion was negatived almost unanimously;
lor, though the company were willing to
promote private subscriptions for the fame
purpose, they would not, by any public
measure, leem to express a censure of the
French revolution.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, Dec. 26.
A petition was read from James Morri
fon, praying renewal ofaloft certificate : —
from several soldiers of the late 4th Maf
fichufetts regiment, for payment ofa ba
lance due from the paymalier of the regi
ment, for Cervices rendered—which, with
the petition of Anthony Hamm'tl, the pay
master aforementioned, were referred to
a committee.
A bill was brought in, and read the firft
time, providing for the payment ofa sum
due to Udney Hay—laid 011 the table.
A letter was received from the Secreta
ry at War, incloling a return of officers,
non-couiminioned officers, and privates, in
the service of the United States—laid 011
the table.
The house then took into consideration
the biii providing for repaying the money
loaned from the bank of the United States.
A motion by Mr. Steele for striking out
the flrft feihon, was negatived—ayes 17 —
noes 34 —A motion by Mr. Madison for
inserting in feclion r, the words "two
hundred thousand dollars," infteadoftwo
millions, wasalfo loft—ayes 27 —noe3 26—
the lpeaker voting in the negative. A mo
tion was ciis'i made by Mr. Williamfon to
amend the section, by adding a clause to
reltritf the premium on the loan to 5 per
cent, a year, including all charges—unani
mously agreed to.—Adjourned.
•-■m-.wjai
PHILADELPHIA.
Decembf.h 29.
Mr. Blanchard, the celebrated aero
naut, now in this city, having succeeded in
Ins fublcription, has fixed \y ednefday the
ninth ot January, if the weather is favora
ble, for alcending with his Balloon. He is
to take his al'cent from the Prison court, at
ten in the morning.
Perdomita tellus, tuniidacetjerunt freta,
[>iferna nojlros regnaJ'snJere impetus ;
Immune caelum ejU—digitus Alcida labor,
In alti rnnndijpatia Jublimes feremur."
We are informed that Mr. Blanchard's
fubferiptiou (tickets ats dollars each) re
mains open till the 3d of January.
The returns of votes from all the ltates'
for Prelident and Vice-Preflrlqjit, are now
received, except from Kentucky. From
what are received, it appears that the Pre
sent is unanimously re-eleited, and Mr.
Adams by a majority of twelve.
James Kent, Esq. is nominated by a
number of citizens of Dutchefs, to serve
-s a representative in Congress for that
district, in the room of the ilon. Egbert
Benfon, who declines.
We hearfrom Sagg-Harbotir, Long-Isl
and, that a (pot of land has been Purveyed
on Montank-Point, on the south fide of
that island, designed for the purpose ofa
hght-houfe. The coait hereabouts is ex
tremely dangerous from the body of (hoals
that extend some diftar.ee to sea, and which
have every year proved fatal to more or
iefs or the and other veflels.
On Wednesday last arrived in this cityi
fifteen Chiefs, or Head Men, and three
women, of the Wabalh nation of Indians,
i .vir' errand is said to be a vilit to the Pre
lideilt of the United States on a conference
relative to peace with their nation. On
this occasion, they were saluted by the ar
tillery as they came into town.
By the schooner Charlotte,Capt. Schenk
ariived at Charleftou on the jit ins! in 0
days from St. Mary's, we learn that the
commiflioners appointed for that ourpofe
had concluded a treaty with the Creek In
ilians, to the mutual fati faction of both
parties; and that the commillioners had fat
out to run the boundary line.
It is defireable (fays a correspondent)
that other capitals 011 this continent ihould
imitate Baltimore, in her convivial meet
ings to celebrate the glorious fuccefles of
trance over the despotic combination—
At entertainments no friend to uni
versal liberty would refufe the following
toall—May the king of PruJJia, the Duke
of BrzmjTvic:; and their abettors, Joon be
at the Diet ot Worms !
We learn from Poughkeepfie, that wheat
-ias fa..en in price more than o'le
perbufhel. * " °
lii pnblic borlies where the members are
lioneSt ant! independent, a difference of o
pinions is the natural consequence. It is
the tax which liberty pays for its defence
againlf internal danger. There are some,
however, who undervalue the object so
much as to be unwilling to hold it under
this incumbrance. The admirers of the
prelent Britiih fyrtem conlider as a less
evil, thatminhlerial corruption which u
uitts and Je cures a ready majority on all
questions. In the United States such a re
medy lor the dil'eafe would be premature.
It is necefl'ary that some further evacuati
ons of republican bile Osotild be premised.
In the mean time a good hint may be ta
ken from a paragraph ill the lart Gazette
of the United States, in the chapter of
COMMUNICATIONS, which al'cribes
the happy union of the majorities in the
House of Representatives on fubjedls of
finance to the management of the bulinefs
by one person, and contrails therewith the
discordant Opinions of the oppol'ert of the
system, viiu presume to think for them
selves. It would be curious to examine
into the mode by which the opinions of the
majority are thus refe'ued from t!.e difa
*reement under which the minority'labours.
but it is of more importance to improve
oil the example as Hated, by extending the
advantage to all other cases as well as that
oi linance. For this purpose it is humbly
prop:;fecl that the bufiuefsef legillation be
divided into the fever 1 diltinct dalles el
subjects which compose it, and thatthe ma
nagement of each ciafs.be put on a like foot
ing,andfoas tohavethe like effect with that
.ifcribed to the provilion already made.
Thelegiflative body, or a majority at lead",
might then free themselves altogether
from the trouble of thinking, the public
bulinTs would go 011 more systematically,
expeditioufly, ar.d (Economically ; the dif
ferent plans conceived by the individual'
of the minority would gradually disgrace
them.oppoiition would cease within cfoors
and the calm there would lead to that de
licious serenity and sweet repoi'e through
out the community, which distinguish the
governments where the natural right ol
thinking is extinguished as a neteflary fa
criiice to the objects for which man enter:
into civil society.
The Grand Jury of the United State;
for the diltri£t of Georgia,have preferred a;
grievances, i. the want of a Bill of right:
prefixed to the federal conflitution—2. the
treaty of peace with the Creek Indians—
and, 4. the excise law, so far as it refpeci.
the diftiliation of spirituous liquors iron:
American produce.
The (hip Montgomery, for New-York,
left London on the 23d of October. and i
not yet arrived. Mr. Wignel, with hi.
company 01 comedians, for the new thea
tre in this city (now nearly liniihed) is or
board.
The number of convicts nowinthejai
of Philadelphia is, twenty-eight men anc
ten women ; a proof that the prcfent sys
tem of solitary punifliment for capita
crimes fully answers the purpose intended,
The number of convicts on the 4th of Ma;
1791, was 134.
The breaking-lip of the French crown
mace, and other trinkets and badges o:
royalty, by order of the National Conven
tion, is a good hint to republics to lay afidt
.:!! follies of a kindred nature that may havt
been adopted, by the influence of delign
ing perrons, in the hour of titular madness.
"Having grown to man's eliate, let u:
put away childilh things."
" We are now (fays a letter from Lon
don of a iate date) persuaded that the
French have got their independence, as the
All (Irian and Prussian troops have been o
oliged to evacuate the country. We be
lieve all the powers in Kurope cannot, re
-flablilh the old government, or any other
out a republican, agreeable to the general
"enfe oF the nation."
It is mentioned in a London paper, that
the queen of England is afflicted with a
disease in her feet, occalioned by a fettled
humour, which affects the foals of both tc
filch a degree, as to prevent her from con
tinuing in a stationary attitude for any
length of time, without extreme pain.
Intimations are made in several letters
from Europe, that "great difcontentspre
vail in Pru'iia (particularly Berlin) rela
tive to that country having made itfelf a
member in the combination against l'raiKe.
it is there loudly said, and complained ot
in the bitterest terms, that the treasures
which old Frederick the Great had amaifed
with so much care, are squandering in a
war without end or object, and which can
not but be ruinous to the Pruilian govern
ment. It is certain that the late'king of
Pruiaa 1eft7,000,000 ofpounds fierling in his
public chefc, the greater part, if not the
whole of which, will be irrecoverably ex
pended in the Quixotic expedition againfl
prance, with the mortification at th/fame
tinieofnot making theleaft inipreflioo. upon
that powerful and animated' rer.uh-lic
Could the ghost of Frederic the Great re
turn to earth, it would, no doubt, lament
sadly to fee those funis expended so wan
tonly, for the fake of hoarding up which,
when living, he a'moft denied himfelfa
second suit of cloarhes, fought some of the
bloodied battles that modern hiflory ha<.
recorded, and squeezed his subjects till
they became as poor as c"ppre;! : en couH
pcffib'y :r::'.ke them."
"It is diverting (fays a correspondent'
to observe the change the lme fucctiies.of
the French have already produced in the
tone and physiognomies of a certain de
icription of persons (inimical to their re
volution) in this country. We were :i
few weeks ago continually Warned, in a
strain of hypocritical cant, against the hor
rors of anarchy, from the supposed exam
ple ot France, and seriously leiloned againli
the Iree discussion of any measure of go
vernment, left (as pretended in regard to
them) it should lead to a difiolution of ail
lawful authority. When the Britilh-ma
nufaSured news arrived of Dumourier's
army being on the point of surrendering,
joy was as visible in a number of counte
nances,that shall be nan,clefs, as deject ion,
disappointment, and vexation is plainly ap
parent (nice the contrary accounts came to
hand. f he extirpation of liberty in France,
and the renovation of monarchy, titles,
and nobility, would, no doubt, have fee
the few retainers to royalty and arifto
crafcy in this country, on (lilts—May disap
pointment continue to be their lot; and
altho' they now solace themselves with aa
opinion, that a mnrerfal combination will
take place next season, and that -French
liberty and republicanism will be eventu
ally cruihed, we may Venture:to predict
that no combination whatever of this kiid
can incceed, and that mojlprobably feven
teeil hundred and ninety-three will con
clude at least as fortunately for the glori
ous cause of France as, from the concur
rence of accounts, icspredecefior feventefefl
hundred and ninety-two, is now doing."
Extrad rf a letter dated New-York, the 2
in J}, to a gentleman in this city.
" A vell'el is just arrived here in 60 davi
h| 'om Clafgow, with news to the 17th Oc
tober from London. The French go 011
charmingly— they killed Bcco of the com
bined 1 ufuans in one action, and 1200 in a
aother—they have taken 2400 prisoners,
with all the baggage of the hirelings—the
Duke is clear out of France, and the French
oldieis itiJl pursuing—they expe£t to Eur
;oyne him and all his army."
Extract of a letter from Paterjon (N. J.)
December 19, 1702.
" \ aiious paragraphs having appeared
in different papers refpetting the invention
of a machine at tiiis place, for the purpose
of cleaning the cotton of its feed, and as
most 01 those accounts are erroneous, aud
unauEhenticated, uB are authorised to in
form the public, that a Cinn for the above
purpose is now cornpleated uoon a con
struction entirely new, and to work by wa
ter ; one of thpfe engines occupying a (pace
of not more than 12 feet by 4, will pro
duce very hear 3001b, of cleaned cotton
per day, and requires only the afliftance of
children. The usual and hitherto great
impediments arising from the ::inazil)«;
friction and consequently great wear and
tear is so nearly removed in this engine as
to be of but very iittleor no importance.
The machine is divided into separate and
diitirict movements, any given number of
which may be instantly ft opt by the atten
ding child, without being the least impe
diment to the remainder. An application
is making to government for a patent, be
ing the production and joint invention of
Mr. William Fearce and Mr. Thovat
Marjhall, conductors of the cotton (pin
ning and -weaving departments b-elo.nrinrf
to the National Manl,fa£lory.
On Wcdnefday the nth inft. died at Ur
banna, in the county of Middlesex Virgi
nia, ARTHUR I.EE, f fq. after a fl.cr:
illness. The loss of this virtuous and en
lightened patriot, is no less to be deplored
by united America, than by hisnative* state.
The long and faithful services rendered to
his country, during her arduous firuggle
tor independence, in the alternative cha
racters of j.inbaflkdor, and llateftr.an, are
uniterfally known and acknowledged.
DIED at his feat Key Crone, in the
county of Monmouth ai.d state cfNew
(erfey, the 21ft i;.ftanf, Major ThoMAs
Kearney, agentleinaii of Itrictprobity ar.cl
integrity, whose affability, gentroliry, hos
pitality, and general deportment through
life rendered him uniyerfally respected ;
and his death is as universally regretted
and lamented, efpeciallv by the indigent,
who were confhmtly i t Sieved by ii:s bene
volence, liberality, and munificence,which
were truly his charaiteriftics.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
National Back Stock 42
N. American ? ,-
Six per cents. 2cj)
Deferred, j zf(,
Three per cents. 1 ij'to
N O T I G E«
per Tons Uaving aemaiios against fli e ertata
ct GcdJtry Var.dertn,i jie of' Bucks Counrv
decea/d, are lecjueiieJ.to txiiiLir their accounts
properly authenticated, in order for Ic-etleißerit
And thofft who,are indebted to said eitatc to maUc
immcd ate payment-, to
JOHN HOUGH, -Adoilnidrafor.
B u «k»Ccaafy, Dcc. ;8, J792. «j.t. ia-.v.French National Convention
October 7.
Letter from General ylnfelm, to the Prefl
dent of the French National Convention.
Sept. 29, Isfc.
ITIZEN, being uncertain in what
part of Savoy Citizen Montefquiou
may be at present, I think it my duty to
give you immediately an account, that on
the 28th uli. being' employed in making
preparations for palling the Var, I receiv
ed different advices, dating, that the troops
of the king of Sardinia were making dif
pufitions to retire towards Sofpello on the
road to Coni.
" I immediately ordered all the grena
diers of the army, supported by two bri
gades, to make ready for ci offing the Var.
" I placed myfelf at the head of this
column, with which I passed the river, and
advancing with rapidity to the city of
Nice, entered it without resistance. Af
ter establishing my military po(b ; my firfi
care was to fend a body of troops !o at
tack the foi tress of Montalban. I si m
moned the Governor, and threatened hirr
with an escalade, for which I w«s making
preparations. He then lurrendcred pri
lower of war, with the whole garrison, con
fiding of Swiss troopi. I found the artillci)
in excellent condition.
" Our grenadiers at present occupy tliii
poll, which is of the grcateft importance
as it will enable me to maintain u.y pofi
tion in Nice should I be attacked by ;
very superior force, and as it gives me ven
great advantages toget poflefTion ofthe caf
tie of Ville-!'ranche, which I hope to tak<
to-morrow in some way or other : it is de
fended by five pieces of cannon.
" I have found between the Var anc
Nice a great number of cannon, several o
which have been spiked up in such hade
that I think it will be easy to make then
soon fit for use. The enemy had not tim
to carrv away the ammunition belonginj
to these guns. 1 am already provided wit!
a great number of nuifkets, and with am
munition and proviiions of every kind.
" 1 must bellow the highed praises 01
the zeal (hewn bv ihe troops whom I hav
not yet been able to reinforce with othe
brigades, as I wish to get pofTeffion o
Nice as soon as possible.
•' 1 am aiTured that the enemy amoun
to 8000 regular troops, four regiments o
which are Swift, besides 12,000 militia, al
well aimed. lam in pursuit of them
but they climb the high mountains.
" I think I shall to-morrow plant th
tree of liberty in the town of Nice, am
111 the fortrefs of Montalban : and th
day pfter to morrow in the town and for
tress of Ville-Franche. I cannot com
prehend the reasons which determinate!
the troops ofthe king of Sardinia to aban
don with so much timidity such itnportan
polls, and such great means of defence
It must have been through a panic terro
of which I shall take advantage. Thi
prevents me from entering into farther de
tails at present, but this deficiency I fha'
afrerwards supply.
(Signed) " ANSELM."
Letter from the Commifiioners sent to the ar
my 0} the North.
" Bethune, 061. 5, £SV.
" Citizens, the Auftrians continue tc
desolate, by their plundering, the rid
country which furroundsthe city of Lisle
the place, however, will never fall intc
their hands. General Labourdonnaye ha*
thrown Teveral reinforcements into it, fc
that at present its defenders amount to al
lead 16,000 men. The citizens difplaj
the greatest courage, and their flcill an®
activity have hitherto prevented the pro
grefs of the flame, occasioned from time
to time by the red hot balls, which the
barbarians who belieged it make use of tc
reduce it to ashes.
" We are now going to set out for thai
place, and shall do every thing in our pow
er to render our presence, which is vvifliec
for there, ufeful to the republic.
" But that our commissioners may b<
as serviceable as possible, it may not per
liaps be improper that you should autho
rize your commissioners to ast in that qua
lity beyoud that narrow tongue ot lane
■which forms the department of the north
■which, above Lisle. is only three quarter:
of a league in breadth, and which in n<
part comprehends the whole of the fron
tiers. A part of the department is in th<
powerof the enemy, and it is through tin
Pas-de-Calais that a communication i<
kept tip between the Head Quarters Ge
leral of the army of the republic and the
nefieged place. It is from the neighbor
ng departments that we procure ailiftance
>f men, and such supplies of provifion3 and
: orage as are neceflary to afiilt us in de-
Fending the frontiers,
" The Pas-de-Calais, like the North, a
bounds with aridocrats of every kind,
ivhofe correspondence with the Audrians
is as dangerous to our country as prejudi
:ial to good order.
" Spies and emifiaries are at present the
noil dangerous of men. To deprive them
:>f the means of doing us hurt, would be
rendering an eflential service to the repub
lic ; and it was with this view that we
:aufed the ariftociat Genevive-Vielfort tc
ae arrested, whose ci-devant castle was de
flounced to us as an asylum of conspirators
and a rendezvous of spies. He refilled
with armed force, & by these means we hac
time to learn the proofs of his correfpon
dence with our enemies, both without ant
within the kingdom. He has just beer
condlifted hither : we have saved him frorr
ihe fury ot the people, who wished to fa
crifice him to their vengeance ; and w<
liave lent him to Douay under an escort
commanded by citizen Lecuvier.
(Signed( " DAULCET,
DELMAS,
BELLEGARDE,
DUQUESNOY,
DA OUST."
P.S. Three national guards of Ee
thune, and one of Douay, were killed ii
the attack on the castle of Vieifort."
The following letter from the commil
fioners sent to the army of Gen. Dumou
rier was read in the National Conventioi
on the Bth of October. It is dated St
Menehould, Oftobcr 7.
" Citizens—the enemy continue thei
retreac towards Stenay, and notwithftand
ing the rapidity of their march, our troop,
incessantly harrafs them. We take grea
numbers of them prisoners every day ; anc
if they had not taken the precaution tc
cause their baggage to file off three day;
beforehand, they would have saved none
of it.
" We know that the miftinderftatiding
between the king of Prussia, the emigrant!
and the Aullrians, is carried to the utmofl
extent. Ths king of Prussia, when he
began his retreat, sent for the cidevanl
Monsieur, and General Clairfayt, anc
iddreffed them as follows: "You have
both deceived me; I will still extricate
you from the bad iituation in which you
jre, but yon will remember me."
" The army of Dumourier is advan.
;ing towards the defiles of Grand Pre, anc
General Kellcrman, who lad night took
jp his quarters at St. Menehould, will fel
3Ut to-morrow with his army for Do;nbcl
General Dumourier has reinforced the ar
my of Kellennan, which amounts to aboul
men. His advanced guard, 1111
Jer the command of Dillon, is at the dif
:ance of two leagues from Verdun, an J
we expect, that if attacked, it will not
;iold out above two or three days.
The minister at war sent a letter frorr
Gen. Beuernonville, and one from Gen,
Labomdonnaye.
The former was still in pursuit of the
;nemy ; the weather had been dreadfully
33d, and if it Ihould so continue, the ene.
Ny would be obliged to leave their horses ;
Daggage, and artillery in the mud.
The latter dated, that the fire of that
:nemy at Lisle had ceased, and that he
sxpefted they would soon retreat.
The minister at war announced, the
ace-admiral Trugnet, by an energetic
Fummons, had obtained the release of the
French consul at Nice, who had been ar
-efted by order of the Piedmontefe gene
ral.
The fame minister communicated ex
:ra£ts of letters from General Labourdon
laye, and General Bournonville. The
Former dated, that the Auftrians had cea-
Fed firing upon Lisle, and wers preparing
:o raise the liege.
Gen. Bournonville's letter is addrefled
to Gen. Dumourier, dated March, Octo
ber 5. The material parts are, " The
weather is very bad ; I have not been able
to make use of my infantry ; they were 38
hours in going two leagues ; they had 110
bread to eat these two days ; we have ta
ken 30 horses from the enemy, two pri
soners, and 121 of their lick.
" I have declined burdening myfell
with so great a plague; and have sent
them to their homes ; if I had heai'kened
to the wish of my volunteers, we Ihould
have buried them ia the mud ; if this dif
order continues raging, the enemy will not
get back either horses, men, or cannon :
they are much in want of the former for
their artillery.
" The king of Prussia and Monsieur
pasTed this way ; the former yesterday, and
the latter the day before, appearing to be
very much frightened. However, the re
treat of the Pruflians is conducted with
the greateil order ; the van-guard passed
Tiern at 12 o'clock lad night, and Grand
Pre at 2 o'clock with sixty carriages full
of their sick, and I let them carry the
plague farther on—but am in readiness
expe&ing you.
BOURNONVILLE.
Tuesday, O&ober 9.
A debate arose on the decree refpefting
the emigrants ; and it was finally decreed,
that such of them as are taken with arm;
in their hands (hall be executed within 2_
hours, after being iirft proved to be emi
grants before a military commillxon of five
persons, to be appointed by the etat majoi
of the army ; foreigners who have quittec
the service of France since the 14th of Ju
ly 1789, and joined the emigrants, or tht
enemy, to be treated in the fame man
ner ; the powers at war to be refponfibh
for all violations of the law of nations bj
any reprisals made by the emigrants.
Extract of a letter from Gen. Cufiine t'.
Gun. Biron.
Spire, OA 5.
" Dear General,
" The letter I received from you yes
terday and the news it contains, caufec
me to lefledt deeply 011 our situation, anc
the means we have of doing the moii
ufeful service to the public weal. Th<
following is the result :
" M. Derbacb, lince the 2d instant hai
received orders to come and cover Worm:
and Mayence, with a body of 12,00 c
men. He will arrive rather late for tin
former, as I am in pofleffion of it. M
Nouveigntr, with a detachment of 4,60 c
entered it. He found j,Boo tents, anc
a magazine of 3,200 loads of corn anc
draw, which I dire&ed to be moved im
mediately and sent to Landau. I ha7e de
manded a contribution of 1,200,000, viz
200,000 of the molt noble Chapter
400,000 of the Bishops, and 600.000 o
the magirtrates. This operation will b<
finilhed before the arrival of the Coun:
Derbach, and 1 shall also have evacuatec
Spires. (Signed)
CUSTINE."
[From the Baltimore Evining Post o
Dec. 22]
The combined armits under the com
mand of the Duke of Brunfwick, hac
efFe&ed their retreat as far back as Ver
dun. The enemies of the French repub
lie appear to be completely difconcertec
in the obieft of the campaign. They ex
peeled to have been joined by large num
bers of the French, but on the contrary
few or none flocked to their standard
They were promised supplies of provision
from France, and depending upon them
they were for some time in a ftarvinf
condition. The Prufiian magazines havi
been exhausted, &the provisions carried t<
the invading armies proved so unwhoie
some, that sickness and disease were tin
confequencet of using them. This add
ed to incessant rains for many weeks
were the immediate causes of the retreat
The French army under the command o
Dumourier and Kellerman harrafled thei
rear and captured numbers of their sol
diers, and larger quantities of baggage anc
(lore?. The siege of Lisle and of Thion
ville were certainly abandoned. Th<
late king and queen of France were pri
foners, but it was imagined would not be
brought to trial, or injured. The city ol
Paris and the whole nation was in a flats
of tranquility. The national convention
conducted themselves with propriety, and
pofTefTed the confidence of the people, and
110 doubt exilled that the new republic
would be eftablilhed, notwithflanding the
opposition of the allied powers.
General Cultine, of the northern French
army had invaded the Imperial territories,
and reduced Spiers, Worms, and several
other places, and taken large magazines
of provisions. General Montefquiou had
completed the conquell of Savoy.
The unfortunate La Fayette was a clofc
confined and cruelly treated prisoner at
Wefel, in the Prulfian territories.
The Empress of Russia was marching
an army of 30,000 men to join the ene
mies cf Francc, and it wa3 expected the
Spaniards would also unite with them in a
(hort time.
meteorological observations.
December 1792.
D. Hi Bar. \Tber. Wind. Weatb.
Tuesday, 18. 7 29. 83/ 32 S.W. Cloudy.
2 29. 6d 37 S.W. do.
JVcdnefday, 19. 7 29* 4 42 W. |Fa;r.
2 20. 45 47 W. Cloudy.
Tburjday, 20. 7 29. 76 30 N. Cloudy.
2 29. 8 33 N. £0*
Friday, 21. 7 29. 65 23 NNWiFair.
2 29. 46 37 W I do.
Saturday, 22. 7 29. J 35 S.W. ; Cloudy
1 29. 4'j 42 calm I Cloudy.
Sunday, 23. 7 29. 5 31 S.W. Fdir.
2 30. c 47 S.W.
Monday, 24. 7 30. c 44 N.E. Rain.
2 30. o 46 calm
if 7'// be published
THE SYSTEM OF
<tf/i ort-
Ufcdby Mr. Lloyd, in faking down the Debates of
Covgrcfs-,—
ASV STEM Co eafv, that any man, of ordina
ry capacity, may clearly comprehend it in
halt* an hour, and soon pra&ice it, in its ftflleft:
extent, without any further 3nftru£tion, than what
will be conveyed in a few pages,—the whole ART
being comprised in eighteen Jimple cbaraSlers, with
out any of those perplexing, arbitrary marks, with
which the learners of other systems are obliged to
burden their memory, and embarrass their prac
tice.
Piice, to Subscribers, Or.e Dollar \—to Non-
Subscribers, a Do 4! ar and half.
Subscriptions received by Mefirs. Rice. Book
sellers, Market-ftre<*t, an 1 by
JOHN CARE V, No. 26, Pear-ftreer,
Half a Dollar to be paid at the time of
fubferi Ljing.
Philadelphia & New-York
S T A G E S,
BY WAY OF
BURLINGTON, BORDENTON, £? SOUTH
AMBOY—
start from Samuel Cooper's Ferry, oppo
fire to Philadelphia, every Sunday and Wed
nesday morning, during the winter season, and
air'.ve at South-Amboy on Monday, and Thursday
evenirigs—where a good boat wilt be ready to con
vt-y Goods and PaflVngers to Ntfw-Yoik.
The Stage b .>ats will leave New-York every
Monday and Thfirfdav, so as to meet the Stages
Irorn Philadelphia at Amboy, to proceed for Phi
ladelphia next day. All Baggage belonging to
palf-ngersto be at their own risque.
Ail Goods forwarded by the Stages on bill, ro
be under the particular care of the Proprietors of
the Stages ; but not warranted airninft robbery or
damage—And all entering, dealing and permits,
to be paid by the owners of goods.
Price of a paiTage from Cooper's ferry to New-
York, - - - £0. i?. 9.
2colb. r-f Goods, to pay the pr:ceof a paflage.
All Way pafTangers, 3d per mile.
AMOS HUTCHIN, and } For Burling".
NICHOLAS SCHENCK, <> ton line.
VAN EM BURGH & M'KEAN, ? For Borden
and DAVID WILLIAMSON, 3 ton line.
December 24, 1792. [law.ew.n
"C~H ARL E 8 BITTERS, "
No. 120, South Market, near Fourth-jlrcct,
Has received from New-York, and ma
nufactured by Lot Mcrkcl,
A large and general afTortment of
Muffs and Tippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
GreatCoats, Caps, Mitts and Cloves lined
with Fur, which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the loye't prices.
Nov. 24. 2awtt
Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, Noy. 2zth, 1792.
r T" , HE ftockholdsrs of the bank of the
1 United State? are hereby informed,
that according tn the statute of incorpora
tion, a general election for twenty-five Di
re£tors will be held at t e bank of the
United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the seventh day as January
next, at ten o'clock in the forenoon.
And pursuant to the eleventh feition of
the bye-laws the ftockhoiciers of the said
bank are hereby notified to nievnble in ge
neral meeting, r.t tee place, on
Thursday the eit'heit jay «>:' .uary next,
at Hve d*cloc;k in the » .euii! ■■
By order of the Pr.'ii'yiK and directors..
JOHN KKAN, Calhier.
t- J. 5-
THEperfon who borrowed aSILVER WATCH
lalt August from a per foil near this city with
the letters M.T. ('i.iiciais oi the owners name) in
cypher, on the outiide cafe , the number 4452, is
desired to return it to the prinrer of this paper,
or be will be adverrifed in a manc-r that will be
digraceful to himfelf.
4t. 2aw .
For file, at the printing ojfia, a few copies
of the firjl Dolume of the National Gazette.
PRINTED BY
C HILDS and S WAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE no. 269, UTCH-STKE-ET
NEAR FIFTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA*