Vo L . I.
authentic.
(Never before printed.)
COPIES of the LAWS
Puffed in the
TERRITORY of the UNITED ST AT ES,
North-weft of the River Ohio,
By the Governor and Justices thereof
Agreeably to the Ordinance of Congress of Jul]
13, 1757, and made out from the Original Re
cords in the Office of the Secretary for the laic
Territory.
VII.
A LAW regulating Marriages.
MALE perrons of the age of seven
teen years, and female persons o:
the age of fourteen years, and not pro
hibited by the laws of God, may be join
ed in marriage.
It {hall be lawful for any of the judg
es of the general court or of the coun
ty court of common pleas in their re
fpeftivc counties, ministers of any re
ligious society or congregation withi*
the diftrifts in which they are fettled
and the society of christians callec
Quakers in their public meetings to joir
together as huffcfand and wife allperfon:
of°the above description who may ap
ply to them agreeably to the rules anc
usage of the refpe£tive societies tc
which the parties belong.
Previously to persons being joined lr
marriage as aforelaid the intention o
the parties shall be made known b)
publishing the fame for the space of fii
teen days at the least, cither by the iamt
being publicly and openly declared thi ct
several Sundays, holy days, ©r othci
days of public worship inthe meeting ir
the towns where the parties rcfpc£tivc
lv belong, or by publication in writing
under the hand and seal of one of tht
judges before mentioned, or of a jufticc
of the peace within the county, to be
affixed in some public place in the
town wherein the parties refpe&ivel)
dwell—or a license shall be obtained o
the governor under his hand an 4 sea
authoriling the marriage of the partie:
without publication as in this law be
fore required.
Male persons under the age of twen
tv one years, and female persons undei
the age of eighteen shall not be joinet
in marriage without firft obtaining the
consent of their fathers refpe&ively
or (in cafe of the death or incapacit)
of their fathers) of their mothers 01
guardians, provided such parents o:
guardians live within the territory.
Where persons not resident withir
the territory apply to be joined in mar
riage, the consent of fathers, mother:
or guardians shall be obtained in lik;
manner as if they were citizens of th(
territory.
A certificate of every marriage so
lemnized as aforefaid, signed by th<
judge or minister celebrating the fame
or in cafe of Quakers by the clerk o
the meeting, fnall be by such judge
minister or clerk refpeftively transmit
ted to the Register of the county where
in the marriage lias been folemnizec
within three months thereafter to bt
entered on record by such Register, ar
exemplification of which shall be evi
dence of such marriage.
If any judg£, minister or others b)
this law authorised to join person:
in marriage shall perform the celebra
tion thereof contrary to the true intern
and meaning of the fame, the perfor
or persons so offending shall upon con
viftion thereof forfeit the sum of on<
hundred dollars to and for the use ol
the territory.
And if any judge, minister or clerk as
aforefaid shall neglect to transmit a cer
tificate of such marriage to the Regiftei
as aforefaid he shall upon conviction
A jfcereof forfeit twenty dollars to and
the use of the territory.
By P. FRENEAU: Publijkcd Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
MONDAY, February 6, 1792.
VIII.
A LAW in. addition to a law entitled "a
law for regulating and ejlablijliing the mi
litia in the territory of the United States
north wejl of the river Ohio," passed Nov.
23 d, 1788.
officers of the militia are re-
X quired, and it shall be their dut)
to cause all persons who by law arc
obliged to do military duty to be enrol
led in the companies of militia.
Any person who by the aforcfak
law is obliged to do military duty, anc
shall neglect to furnilh himfelf witl
arms, accoutrements, and aminunitioi
agreeably to the requirements of fait
law by the times herein after mentioned
lhall pay a fine for each month he ilia!
neglect to provide the articles by fait
former law required in the sums hereii
after fpecified, that is to lay for a nnif
ket bayonet or rifle not provided withii
thirty days after the publication of thi
law, or next after such person (hall b.
enrolled, five dimes. For every pount
of powder and four pounds of lead o
forty rounds of cartridges, not providet
within fifteen days next after the pub
lication of this law, or after such pei
son shall be enrolled, two dimes ant
five cents. For every cartridge bo)
and pouch or powder horn and bullc
pouch, not provided within fifteei
days next after the times before hereii
fpecified, two dimes, lor eveiy fij
flints not provided within ten days nex
alter the times before mentioned, on.
dime and five cents. For every prim
ing wire and brush, not provided with
in thirty days as aforefaid, one dime.
And the military officers arc hereby
required and dire&ed to mlpetl th<
arms, accoutrements and ammunition o
lijc TT.cn b-lorrging to their re'pe&ivf
companies, on the firlt sabbath day lr
each month. And the officers of th<
companies of militia are authorised anc
diretted to colled the fines by this law
inllifted, in the fame manner as othci
fines are by the said former law to bt
colle£ted.
XI.
A LAW appointing Coroners. Paffec
December 21, 1788.
A CORONER shall be appointee
in each co-unty within this territo
ry, who shall be sworn to a faithful dif
charge of his office, andlhall give bond:
in the sum of two thousand doliais.
with two sureties for the due perform
ttnee of the fame, before he enters upor
the duties thereof.
And it shall be the duty of the coro
ner by a jury of the county to enquire
concerning the death of a perlon ilain
who dies suddenly or in prison, and hi:
inquisition so taken, he shall certify tc
the next general court holden withir
the county, or to the court of genera
quartcr-feffions of the pcacc holden fci
the county.
And it shall be the duty of the coro
ner to execute process of every kind
wherein the fheriffis a party or intereft
cd in the suit, or for other just cause 1:
by law rendered incapable to execuu
the fame.
And in cafe the fheriff for any cause
shall be committed to gaol the corona
[hall by himfelf, or such person as Ik
[hall appoint be keeper of the goal du
ring the time the flieriff shall remain a
priioner.
X.
A LAW limiting the tints of commenc
ing Civil AElions and inflituting Crimi
nal Prosecutions. Passed December z&th.
1788.
ACTIONS of trespass, trespass
quare claufum fregit, cafe (othet
than for slander) debt upon limple con
trad, or for rent, detinue, trover, waftc
and account, other than such account:
as concern the trade of merchandize
between merchant aud merchant, theii
factors and fervar.ts, shall be comracn
ced within Hx years next after the]
•aufe of a&ion shall have arilen and
:ct afterwards. ,
Actions of trespass for aflault and
battery wounding and impnlonment
with in four years next after the cause
of a£t.ion, aft'ion on the cafe for slander
within two years next after the cause ol
a£tion; aftionsof debt upon fpccialty and
matters of record, and covenant with
in tin years next after the cause of acti
on, r.nd not afterwards* Provided
however that if any person entitled to
any of the actions aforefaid shall at the
time of the cause thereof accruing be
wiriain the age of twenty one years,
feme covert, non compos mentis, 01
imp. ifoned, then and in such cases the
actions may be commenced within the
spare of one year after such difabilitiet
ihall refpe&ively be removed.
Ail prosecutions for crimes othei
:han for capital offences, forgery, per
ury and larceny shall be mllitutec
wifhin two years next after the crirnc
shall have been committed, aud prose
:utions for the crimes of forgery, per
ury and larceny shall be inftitutec
within four years next as er the crime
ihaii have been committed and not as
crwards.
'titer'/ling ExtraSJs, tranjlatedfrom French papen
OElcber 20—25.
Paris, Oft. 25. —The following is an ex
tract from a speech of a member of the Isa
tional Alfembly, (spoken Oft. 23) on tht
übjeft of reducing the refractory non-jur
rig lergy to order. " Fanaticism is at thi
nqtrent laying her plans to deluge thi
;our;try with blood, and wants nothing bu
1 rigorous law to acquire full strength foi
.he retention of her designs. Persecute
isr, aud you instantly give her an advantage
".'F'j/oti: tre it with contempt the
:>le bickerings between the non-juring cler
gy and those that have taken the oath, be
tween the proselytes of the one and the par
tizans of the other, and (he immediately be
tomes weak and harmless. It is a fad trutl
that the two fanatical parties, I may fay
armies, are now met and ready for combat
It is no less certain, that if the Nationa
Assembly does not ast the part of mediator
and that without further delay, if they d<
not fall upon some means to quench thi
mutual hatred, the nation will be abandon
ed to all the miseries which religious dif
putes have in all ages been known to pro
luce— Let us conlider, firft, the cause of tht
mifchief, which will best inftruft us in pro
I'iditiga remedy. On one fide I fee illibe
ral fanaticifm, on the other an intoleran
ir.d persecuting spirit. The profpeft i
gainful. lam far from thinking that theri
ire no men in the world who do not ast fim
>ly from virtuous motives, but give m<
leave to fay, these men are members of n<
tlub, of no party —unless I except the part;
nf peace and good order—l return to m;
fubjeft.
111 taking a view of the disturbers of na
tional felicity, I observe, frfl, Hypocrites
who care not how much trouble they occa
lion to mankind, provided they themfelve:
can fatten upon the spoils; wretches whe
:over themlelves with the garb of religion,
with a view to turn the credulity of the su
perstitious multitude to their own emolu
ment. These are the men who are wont tc
conduct the blind to the verge of a preci
pice, under pretence of ensuring their falva
lion and future felicity!
In thefecond group I fee pretended pa
triots, intriguing characters, ambitious des
pot j, icheming how to subjugate* mankind
and afluming the cloak ofpatriotifm to pro
lecute those who dare to be of a differenl
opinion, who refufe to bow down before
them,and have the modesty to belefspofitive
t>r less noisy than themselves. Hence arift
:hofe disorders that interrupt the public re
jofe: hence those profcriptions,refentments.
ind heart burnings which are ever more at
tendant upon religious schisms and the efta
ilidiing of fefts : Hence come a thoufanc
lbufes, all originating with the men, whe
nppofe the religious exercises and preaching:
of the non-conforming clergy. If the firll
duty of man is to worftup the eternal Being
certainly his firft-right is to worship the Dei
iv in his own manner. Liberty in matter;
of religion is as much a man's property a:
any other pofleffion, and it is the duty of so
ciety to yield it unlimited protection.
11l order to deltroy all party spirit on thi.
Numb. 29.
fubjeft, and to disappoint the malevolent,
w ho hope, from the ftiock of opinions, and
the opposition to religious liberty, to find
their own ends answered, the forego.ng
principle mult be constantly kept in view
Would you disarm the well meaning enthu
fiaft—?—Do it not by violence, but by en
deavoring to persuade him that the civil
constitution of the clergy is by no mean;
their religious constitution ; that religion
lias nothing to do with exclusive privilege?;
ind that every one is at liberty to choose his
own religion and his own ministers. But
bew are of rigorous and opprefiive measures.
ir'anat: ,-ism grows Itrong in proportion a»
von attempt to cru.'h her, and persecution
inspires a spirit of keen resentment in those
who are the objects of it, When you fee
men renounce every worldly consideration
tor what they esteem the rights of confid
ence, beware of disturbing them in the pof
effion of this imaginary treasure, becauie
jerfecution has in times past rendered fa
red the molt infamous tenets. Why
hould the old nonjuring clergy be reckon
ed enemies to the constitution and rebels to
;he law because they choose to adhere to the
indent modes of worlliip and articles of be
ief, and retain their livings ? Those who
10 not infringe the political laws of the
ommunity, in disturbing the public peace,
night to be left in c]uiet, and not involved
n a general proscription.
I owe you the whole truth and nothing
Hit the truth ; and I have the courage to
ay so in the face of the world. No man
an be a rebel to the law but by overt a£ts,
learly and unobjectionally proved. But,.
11 turning adrift the old non-conforming
lergy, I fee no proof of fails, none of tho{e
egal forms which ought always to precede
uinifhment. —Shall we surrender to the ex
ecutioner of the law persons whose only
:rimes are fanatical opinions ?—I fay, let
uftice rather bedone to them, in being pro
e£ted, while they continue faithful fubje&s
:o the ft ate, however monstrous their te
lets in points of religion.
I call the turning otf the old non-juring
:lergy frourtneir livings a tyrannical mea
ure —a measure that will provoke refift
uice and reprisal.—The law itfelf, for this
jurpofe, is the signal of civil war—(hould
t be adopted, I will beg leave to propose
jne amendment—that it lhall be written in
:haracters of blood, and publithed by the
Tiinifter of death (the public executioner)
through all the departments of the king
lom !—The spoiling of the old clergy will,
I forefee, be the fame thing as planting a
joifonous feed, which will soon swell into a
tree and extend its branches for our de
traction.—To obviate these disastrous con
sequences, I, therefore, offer the two fol
owing heads as the groundwork of a de
:ree. —ift, The not having taken the oatU
:o the new government lhall not operate to
irevent any priest- from faying mass in a
■hurch or chapel, ad. All, and every priest
nay open public chapels, for any mode of
.vorfhip whatever, provided he conforms to
he laws of the police."
[To be continued..]
For the National Gazette.
farther and concluding THOUGHTS on the In
dian War.
By H. H. BrAckenridge, ofPittlburg.
I CAN easily excuse those, who, from
motives of humanity, call in question
:he justness of our cause in the war against
:he Indians. But could I make my obser
vations their's with refpeft to the ruthful
lifpofition of a savage, that is not soothed
continually by good offices, or kept down
by fear ; could I give my knowledge recol
lection, and impression of the accumulated
instances of homicide committed by the
tribes with whom we are at war, the hu
mane would be more humane, for their
feelings would be more awake, not in fa
vor of these people, but of the persons butch
ered by them in cold blood, or dragged to
that pole seen by the foldiersunder Gener
al HarMAr, by the Miami village, where
the ground was beat like a pavement by
the miserable victims moving round the
stake to avoid the still pursuing tortures,
which the circle of black coals, at a dis
tance from the piles burned, ftiewed whence
they brought their brands or heated gun
barrels to afflict the obje£t. All this, tho'
there have been but three instances since
the conclusion of the war with Britain,
where an Indian has been hurt on our part;
one on the Sufqhehanna, and two 011 the
Ohio ; with refpeft to one of which instan
ces, that of M'Guireand Brady, it is adoubt <vhether they were hostile or peacea
ble-
I consider men who are unacqnaintn
with the savages like young women wh<
have read romances, and have as impropei
an idea of the Indian character in the ont
cafe, as the female mind has of real life ii
the other. The philosopher, weary of tht
vices of refined life, thinks to find perfec
virtue in the simplicity of the nnimprovei
state. He fees green fields and meadow
in the customs and virtues of the savages
It is experience only can relieve from thi
calenture of the intellect. All that is gooc
and great in man, results from education
and an uncivilized Indian is but a little waj
removed from a beast, who, when incensed
can only tear and devour, but the savage ap
plies the ingenuity of man to torture anc
inflict anguish.
Some years ago, two French gentlemen,
a Botanist and Mineralift, Monsieur Sograir
and M. Pike, the Botanist a very learned
man, and truly a philosopher—but his brair
turned with jean Jaques Roufleau's, anc
other rhapsodies—the man of nature wa:
his darling favorite. He had the Indians wit!
him at his chamber every day. Fitting out
a small boat on the Ohio, with only three
other persons, aid without arms, he de
scended. It was in vain to explain the
d mger,. and dissuade him. Hewasconfci
ous to h imielf of loving Indians, and
doubtless they could wilh him no harm-
But approaching the Scioto river, a part>
came out in a canoe, as he thought, to pay
their refpefts to him ; but the firft circum
stance of ceremony when they came on
board, wa ; to imp»efs the tomahawk and
take off. the fcalp'of the philosopher.
A great dependence seems to be placed
on Cornplanter and his party. I know
Cornplanter, and Big Tree, and Half-
Town ; they are good, as Indians, and are
well disposed to us, because they can be of
little or no account on the other fide.
Brandt treats them with contempt, and ad
heres to the British. Instead of bringing
them down iat a great expence, and pre
senting them in Philadelphia, and appro
priating 800 dollars for their maintenance
and veltment, were things put upon a right
footing, and Prefq'ifle garrisoned, we Ihould
have no more occasion for Cornplanter, or
Big Tree, or Half-Town, than they would
have for us ; and if we gave them goods,
the.y would give us furs.
As to Cornplanter's speech, I have known
myfelf, a speech made for him, that he ne
ver heard. I know a little of the mystery
of agent-craft, and the mummery of In
dian fpeechifying. An Indian chief in the
hands of a good interpreter and agent, is a
more profitable property, than a tame bear
or a lion presented for a fliow. I have
seen Indian princes in Pittsburgh, as plenty
a. in the time of Adonibezek, who had
three score and ten kings under his table.
Many a chief I have seen driven out of a
kitchen by a maid with a broomstick, left
he should ileal a tin cup or a table spoon.—
I have seen a certain blind Sam, so called,
because blind of an eye, taken down to this
city, pal Ted for a warrior, dining with clubs,
and have heard of him presented at a ball,
on his way down ; the favored ladies look
ing upon themselves as beatified in re
ceiving the salute of a king. When he re
turned, with a laced waistcoat, the vulgar
Indians that before thought him one of
them, laughed immoderately at the farce.
I fay, the business with the Indians is war
and reduction, and after that, away with
the system of agents and interpreters,
and leading Indian", down to your capital-,
like pet-beasts. Let them stay in their
woods aVid negociate an equal trade. This
trade may certainly be a very great object.
When the line of savages, that are at pre
sent hostile, is removed, our way is open to
peaceable and remote nations. I have con
versed with those, who, in behalf of great
trading companies, had been four years on
discovery so. thepurpofesof trade, had pe
netrated many thousand miles, traversed
the country beyond the source of the Mis
souri, but were delicate in their communi
cations of the route and advantages of trade
with the myriads of the natives in those
woods : they, however, gave me to under
stand, that molt of the trading companie
of Britain were turning their attention to it
Of the vast nations of Indians that are
ready to trade with ns, were the Miami and
Wabalh Indians peaceable, there is no con
ception. It will cost but one effective ar
mament to accomplish this object, and why
employ years in doing that which may be
done at once ? No longer any starved cam
paign ! —but I am disposed to believe that
Frelq'ifle is the route. Let others calculate
and explain the of expense by this
route, I only touch the advantage of begin
ning with the Six Nations in our rear.—lt
is said, that the persons interested in our
funds are against an effective armament, as
it may turn away the revenue from the
payment of their interest. I could g've
them a small hint on this head. Be careful
not to check the spirit of the pecple. It is
electrical, and if confined may burst. Let
it have an egrefsin acquisitions to the west
ward, and you may reitfafe.
It is lonfidered as a great facrifice to pub
lic credit, to have provided for the dif
•fearge of tke publi« -ci»bt, without difcri
mlnfttior, And it is a prevailing opinion, that
the monied interests thus constituted, are a
lead Weight, by their extracts of letters
ind paragraphs in the papers, on the wheels
)f government, and ail this t'3 secure the
>ayvnent of their interest. But the maxim
5, ne qudthimis, nothing too much : they
nay ovedhoot themselves and cause the
>eople to revolt, and call in queltion the
l-iginal juilice of their claim.
As these ar&defultory observations, I remark
ind conclude that some think me rather rash in
jrefuming that the king of Britain has given anv
ounter.ance, dire&ly or indirectly to the Indian
lepredations or armaments. 1 {hould be sorry
o do injustice to any power, and it was with
difficulty that I admitted the idea, but 1
lave been convinced of it, and can have nc
loubt, bccaufe that government could not bui
lave heard of the hostilities, and by one fimplt
vord of the commandant of Detroit to M Kee
ind Brandt, we should have had a perfect peace
3ut M'Kee and Brandt, when mcflengers were
ent to call the Indians to the treaties at Mufkin
rum and at the Miami, advised them not to go
\itncfs 1 (hall suppress my authorities. 1
nay perhaps injure thele men in their futun
rade with the Indians or connexions at Detroit
Sood God ! that an island where 1 drew my sirs
wreath, where a Mihon and a Hume have lived
where a Howard has facrificed to humanity—
here can be those who can aid, at leaf! not dif
nm, what may be in their power, the savage o
bis axe, battered on the skulls of their fpccies, ii
he cottage or the field of the settlements ad
oining their province —they could do this b 1
he surrender of the posts, for at that moment .
)roc!aim peace to the westward, and enfur:
afety.
But the polls are not surrendered, and th<
Indians are supported.—Nay more ; I wouh
lot wonder if the British gold has found its waj
nto our states ; and some of these sentiment
igainft effe&ual measures, that are thrown out
nay come from this source. We are thus be
ween two fires, fedu6tion at home and invjfioi
rom abroad !
The chiefs of the weflern nations, elated witl
heir victory, are at this moment at the rnoutl
>f Buffaloe-Creek, which empties into lfekt
Erie, at no great difiance from the pod of Nia
>ara, tender the auspices of the government o
Canada, soliciting and convening the chiefs o
he Six Nations to a c uncil. The chicfs an
ctually convening, and the populace are cla
norous for a war. They talk with irony anc
aicafm of the attachment of Cornplanter, Half
Town, and Big-Tree to these Hates. They ex
ilt in the vi&ory obtained : For Indian loves In
lian, and like a bone out of joint, they with tc
ind their proper place, and coaleice with l
ike people. It is true, the northern and weO
:rn Indians l ave been formerly hostile to eac!"
xher ; but it is well known that the Six Nation;
vere reduced by the campaign under Gen. Sul
ivan, and ever since submit. It is in
lature ; and could they have the lead chance o!
uccefs in revolt, they would join their brethren
ind the long confined indignancy of their re
entment would burst f rth. I think this is the
>ccafion, and I am disposed to believe they wil
hink so. A force in their front, a garrison ai
3 refq'ifle is the talifmanie charm in this cafe,
t will intercept the communication of the In
iians, who are at prefentopen and avowed ene
nies, and we (ball hear no more of council fire:
it Buffaloc Creek, or talks sent to Cornplantei
:nd his people, of shaking him by the head, ant
he like, unless he joins them in their warfare
Prcfq'ifle, Prefq'ifle is the obje£t, and ough
to be seized inflantly, and made the foot
bold from whence, as with the mechanism ofai
Arcs imedes, the whole fvfiem of the western as
airs may be moved and directed.
It may be thought that lam inhumane In mj
en iments towards the savages : it is a mistake
t am inhumane to no man or men ; but in o de:
obe humane, let me have it in my power. Le
nyfelf firft be fafe, and then I can {hew wha
lumanity dilates. The question is, Whethei
*/e {hall submit ourselves o the savages, or the)
0 us' P 1 fay, let us conquer because we canfioi
lepend upon them, f r the weaker ever diftrufti
he mightier, and the unenlightened man, the
enfible ; but when we shall have it in our pow
•r, let us di penfe treaties on principles of reci
procity (to use the term of t>ie diplomatifls)
n let them know that we are not about to pur
hafe a treaty, but to make one and preserve it,
f iiefe principles, founded in nature and truth,
vill ftnkc the mind » f the savage, that we a{k nc
nore than he oug- t to give, or tint we give
nore than he has a right to a{k. By the im
nortal gods ! (a Roman oath, but sworn uith
Chriflian devotion) if t is principle could be
nade the basis of our n gociations, we should
govern not only these people, but all the world
vith whom we have to do. When 1 fay govern,
. mean command of" them all, that is our right or
>rinciples ot the laws of nations or of nature,
Silt in our affairs with the western Indians, we
lave for a feriesof ye rs pursued a sickly tam
>e ing system of half peace, half war, from
vhich nothing could result but half success. A
) Id and decisive ast of cfff£Hve hostility at the
onclufion of the war with Britain would have
ompofed h fe Indians and preserved in exift
nce the countless numbers that have fallen vie
-1 ns to torture or death on the bourne of the
Anldernefs. It was therefore inhumane not tc
jave adopted this system, which would have been
But I law, and lamented thecircum
iance of the Congress besieged with candidates
or agencies and commiflionfhips, and melfrn
*ers, and runners, to negociate with these tribes.
There was nrtt a thing that liaclever seer
i squaw, or a half king, or a chief, or had
teard the guttural found of a Kickapoo, or
a Delaware, but would have it that henn
lerftood fifty Indian languages, and coult
nterpret, and could draw all the tribes af
:er him just as a boy would whittle pige-
Dns. Hence, treaty and not war. Itisnol
:o be supposed that men at the helm know
everything; they are just as ignorant,
,vith refpeft to affairs beyond theii
•each, as other people. It is the man or
he extremity of any government, as I have
:>een, that lees the most absurdities. 1
"hall fay no more atprefent : for I wilh al
hings conducted well, and would rathei
lelp forward what ought to be done, thai
jlame what has been tranfa&e d.
Phi lad. Feb 4.
To the Editor of the
NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Sir,
OF the many newspaper advocates so
the Indian war, 1 think there is n(
:>ne who has stated the principles of it niori
andidly than Mr. Brackenridge in youi
ait paper—hejuftifies it upon two grounds
First, that the Indians never had an;
•ight to the foil; and secondly, if they eve
aad filch right, itisdeftroyed by our treat;
with Great-Britain.
Whatever colouring we may attempt t(
give the subject, I fufpeft we lhall iinall;
se obliged to depend, for our juftificatiou ii
: his war, upon the one or the other of the':
jrinciples.
Mr. B. seems indeed to infinusvte that thi
Indians have relinquifhecl their lands to u
jy treaty, and that the Secretary of Wa
las ltated the whole tranfaftion. But witl
lis pretended knowledge of facts, Mr. B
mght at least to have known that the Se
;retary does not, and could not, pretenc
:hat the Miami or Wabafh Indians witl
ivhom we are at war, have ever relinquifh
d any lands to us. The Secretary onl)
suggests that a treaty was holden for tha
purpose. and the abovementioned Indian 1
were urged to attend the treaty, but the)
■efufed.
Have the Indians, then, no other right tc
:he foil than the Bulfaloe who has run ovei
t? Where did Mr. B. learn the doctrine
:hat a right to the foil is acquired only bj
igricultural occupancy ? If this doftrim
s true, what right have the United State'
:o an immense tract of uncultivated land
jetwe en the Atlantic settlements and tin
:ountry claimed by the hostile Indians :
In those stages of society, when men wet<
lunters and ihepherds, was there no pofli
jility of their acquiring a right to the land'
:hey lived upon ? The idea is quite new
:o ine—Mr. B. confefles that he lives ii
-he western country, and that he is intereft
-d. I can readily believe him, and I pre
ume no man will adopt his opinion whe
does not fall under the like description.—
The truth is, we have an undisputed tith
:o a much greater quantity of land in pro
portion to our wants, than is poffefled b'
the Indians ; while that continues to be thi
cafe, we can have no pretence to encroacl
upon their territory.
In the next paragraph we are told, tha'
the Indian right is destroyed by our treat;
with the king of Great Britain. But wa*
it pollible for the king to alieuate what h<
never owned ? The king never claimed;
right to the foil in question. Had the In
dians all engaged in the cause of Great-Bri
tain (which was far from being the cafe
the treaty instead of forfeiting, would havi
secured their rights, for it expressly stipu
lates, that there lhall be no future confirma
tions made, nor any prosecutions commenc
ed against any person or persons, for or b'
reason of the part which he or they ma :
have taken in the war, and that no perfoi
(hall on that account, fulfer any future los
or damage, either in his person, liberty o
property. Can there be any colour thei
to suggest that the title of the Indians t<
their lands, was destroyed by this treaty
Mr. B. avers, that except a few chiefs
the Six Nations are in difpolition hoftih
to us— I am convinced there is no reason so
this averment, but I fear the cpinion h<
entertains will produce a scene like tha
exhibited in the Moravian towns on thi
Mulkingum in the year 1782. Have wi
not enemies enough, without increafir.<
the number ? Or do the people of Pittf
burg covet the small tract that is still po{
felled by the Six Nations ?
The Indians are denominated " beasts o
prey" and we are encouraged " to pene
trate the forefts where they haunt, and ex
tirpate the race." Good God ! is this 0111
temper towards these unfortunate people :
Sentiments like these have in former age
rendered man a savage to man—lt is sup
posed they have given birth to the prefem
war ; and if these sentiments continue tc
operate, we may perhaps effect our purpose
and extirpate the whole race of Indians.
But if we do so, and God is just, we lhall
surely receive for the wrong that we have
done, of Him, with whom there is no re
spect of persons.
Philadelphia, Feb. 3, 1795,
PHILADELPHIA,'
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Thursday, Feb. 2.
A petition was read, from Uduey Hav,
praying payment of a claim against the li
nked States for advance of money to twtf
American officer?, prisoners in Canada, du
ring the war—Referred for examination
and report to the Secretary of the Trea
sury.
A resolution was laid upon the table for
the appointment of a committee to enquire
into several particulars relative to the ex
pedition against the Indians; and the caules
of the late unfortunate defeat
The House took up for confederation the
amendments proposed by the Senate to the
poft-office bill, and concurred in them all
except one or two, vvhich refpeft the
cross-posts.
One of the amendments proposed by the
Senate, and agreed to by the House, is in
favor of the newspapers ; inasmuch as it
permits any person whatever, without au
thority from the port master general, to
" take up, receive, order, dispatch. con
vey, carry and deliver" newspapers for
hire on the established post-roads, without
being fubjeft to any fine, penalty, or for
feiture for so doing.
By another amendment, it is enaftedthat
if any person employed in any department
of the poft-office (hall unlawfully detain,
delay, or embezzle, or destroy any newspa
per, with which he fnall have been entrust
ed, such offender shall, for every such of
fence, forfeit a sum not exceeding fifty dol
lars : and the postmaster, in any contract
he may enter into for the conveyance of the
mail, may authorize the person, with
whom such contract is made, to carry
newspapers, other than those conveyed in
the mail.
Friday Feb. 3
Sundry petitions were presented to the
House, which were read and referred to
the proper departments.
A message was received from the Senate
by Mr. Secretary Otis, notifying that the
amendments made by the House of Repre
sentatives to the amendments to the poft
office bill, were agreed to.
Mr. Goodhue moved that the House
should resolve itfelf into a committee of
the whole on the fifliery bill; this motion,
after some opposition by Mr. Parker and
Mr. White, who urged the superior im
portance of immediate attention to the
militia bill, was agreed to—and Mr. W.
Smith took the chair ; the bill was then
read by the Clerk, and on the firft Section's
being repeated by the Chairman—Mr. Giles
moved that this section should be struck
out; this motion being seconded, a debate
ensued, in which Mr. Giles and Mr. Mur
ray spoke in opposition to the bill—and Mr.
Goodhue, Mr. Ames, Mr. Gerry, Mr.
Laurance, Mr. Fitzfimons, and Mr. Barn
well, in favor of it : the committee rose
without coming to a vote, and had leave
to fit again.
The House adjourned till Monday.
Tt
PHILA DeTp Ii I A.
February, 6, 1792.
Samuel Powell,, Ffquire, was 011
Tuesday laftchofen Speaker of the Senate
of the State of Pennsylvania, in the room
of Richard Peters, Esquire, who had re
signed.
The general court of New-Hampshire
have pal Ted an act incorporating a company
of gentlemen, for the purpose of establish
ing a Bank at Portsmouth, by the name of
the New-Hampshire Bank.
The Quebec Herald, of Jan. 2, contains
accounts of the celebration of their New
Constitution by four different companies,
viz. By the " friends of the Constitution," at
Frank's Hotel—" The late Committee and a
number of inhabitants,'''' at the Merchant's
CotTee-Hou'fe—" The Garrifm Club"—and by
a number of Gentlemen, at Lane' 3 Tavern.
Lord Dorchester is among the toasts
given by the three latter companies.
The SierraLeona company, in G. Britain,
have notified to all free negroes at prelent
resident in Nova Scotia, their intention of
receiving into their African colony such of
them as can produce teflimonials of their
moral good character, and are inclined to re
move and fettle in Africa. Every approved
emigrant is to have 20 acres of land for
himfelf, ten for his wife, and five for every
child, subject to the company's charges and
iegulations.—To iufpire the blacks with
the ful left confidence, the company have
re-published the incorporating act of Parli
ament, whereby they are prohibited, d : .-
reftly or indireaiy, from dealing or traf
ficking, or being any way concerned in the
execrable slave trade.
In the New-York Journal of the.2Bth
ult. appears a private address to the legis
lature of that state, including a plan for
opening the navigation several thousand
miles inland from the Atlantic, by way of
the Hudson, the Mohawk, the Lake
c<c. The following is an abftradt of tfcWriter's idea? on the fubje£t. " The natur
al commercial advantages of the State of
New-York are vastly superior to those of
any other state in the union, and yet there
is no part cf the world advanced to the
fame stage of maturity that has done le)s,
in its public capacity, lor opening the n?-
tural channels of acceO to its interior and
remote part-:. A rivalfhip subsists, and must
subsist between Pennsylvania and New-
York for diverting the produce of the im
mense northwest territory to their respec
tive capitals : it is a consolation, however,
to reflect that New-York can accomplish
the object for one tenth part of the expense
that must be incurred for the fame purpose
by her neighbour.—By opening a canal of
one mile in length at Fort Stanwix a water
communication is at once formed between
the main ocean and the great lakes. The
other obstacles are, some impediments in
the .Mohawk rirer, Wood-creek, and the
western waters, which at present confine
the navigation of these firearm to boat
carrying only ten or twelve barrel,
with an expense and delay barely equiva
lent to any advantage. From an attuaJ
survey of fkilful persons these impediment?
can be obviated by three or four locks al
the little Falls.—The writer supposes the
sum neceflary to effect all the improvements
he contemplates will not exceed feventy
five thousand dollars." It is doubtful, (fays
he) by establishing reasonable tols to per
petuity, if the state could invert their fund
in any mode so advantageoufly —as, upor
the lowest computations on the aggregate
etpenfe, it will not yield lei', than trom 12
to 15 per cent, per annum."
[The following letter from Gen. St. Clair to t/i<
Secretary of War. is explanatory of these/
script to hit letter cf Dt c. 9. —See Naliona.
Gazette, number 14.]
Philadelphia, January 29. 1792.
Sir,
TO the letter of the 9th of November, which
I had the honor to address to you from Fort-
Washington, a podfeript was added, relating tc
information communicated by Capt. Slough tc
Geneial Butler, and not imparted bv him to me,
and that did not come to mv knowledge till aftei
the army got back to that fort. As the nature
of the information was not mentioned, the poil
fcript must have appeared myflerious, and it is
proper that 1 should explain it.
C.iptain Slough, fir, was intended to have
been the bearer of the letter, and so it was en
dorsed upon the cover, and therefore I thought
it needleis to insert the particulars; and had he
piefented it, you no doubt would have inquired
into it fully, and all ambiguity would have ceal
ed ; but at the moment he should have set off,
some ccour.t of thefituation of Colonel Gibfon
(who is his uncle) induced him to delay his jour
ney, and the packet was put into the hands ol
another person, thengoingto Lexington.
You will be pleaffd, fir, to recollefl it was
fiated in the letter, that in the night preceding
the 4th of November, the militia were in ad
vance of the red of the army.— For greater se
curity, and to intercept any (mall parties of In
dians that might be approaching, with predatory
views, it was thought fitting that a party of regulai
troops should be advanced, f roma quarter to half 1
mile in front of the militia. The party was ta
ken from the right wing which formed the front
line, then under the immediate command ol
Genet al Butler, and Capt. Slough was the officet
ordered out by him foi those purposes. In the
night, it fecms, he discovered the Indians ap
proaching in such numbers, that he thought it
ncccffary to draw in his party, and immedi tely
made report of what he had discovered to Gen
eral Butler, from whom he had received his or
ders. He proposed to the General to make
the fame report to me; but the General replied
to him, that as he mud be fatigued, he had better
lay down to sleep, aad he himfelf would give the
information.
This is, as nearly as I can recollefl, the ac
count Captain Slough gave me at fort YVafh
ington.
The cdeis given to Colonel Oldham, men
tioned also in the poflfcript as not executed,
were, that he should fend out, from his com
mand, an hour at leaf! before day, and as much
earlier as poflible, four or five parties of 20 men,
with an officer 10 each, in different direffions,
for the purpose of making discoveries. I was
very anxious on this point, and not without some
doubt that it might not be punctually attended
to: the Adjutant-General was therefore, about
the dawn of day, but rather before it, sent to
Col. Oldham that I might be certain of that pre
caution having been taken. Colonel Oldham
was met by him at some difiancc from his en
campment, and informed him the parties were
not then gone out, but would be di(patched the
moment he returned.—Unhappily he never re
turned.
I have thehenor to be, Sir,
Your most obedient servant,
A. Sr. CLAIR.
The h ncrrabl,; Major-Gen. Knox, Secretary oj IVar.
ExtraEl of a letter fom a memb r of Cong ess, tc
his friend in Richmond, dated Philadelphia,
Januarys, 1792.
" 1 was yefleiday evening favored with yoursoi
the 27th ult. 1 have heard of the ast ofaflembly
alluded to, but had feenno copy of it, nor has J
copy been received by any of the delegation :
the letters in which it has been noticed pals it
Tver so fljghtly, that we scarcely know bow tc
unde:fia n d it; some mentioning it in general
terms as a law, and others, as conditional, de
pending on an ast of Congress expected to pass.
" The bill apportioning reprefentativesamong
the people of the several states, was brought in
with a clause providing tor an election of additi
onal members to take their feats in the present
Congress, but that clause was expunged with
little or no deba.e. Ido not recollect that the
committee said any thing in support ol it, but
that they conceived it to be agreeable to the
order of the house. If in this we eired, it was
not owing to the cause fuggetted ; we are as an
xious to give our country her Full weight in the
political scale as any of our constituents, and
would mod cheerfully have provided for the ad
miflion of additional members, had we conceiv
ed the conllitution authorised it. Sett. 2d.
Art. 10, declares, that the House of Representa
tives (hall becompoled of members cholen every
second vear, &c. That representatives, &c.
shall be apportioned among the several Hates,
See. according to their refpeftive numbers, &c.
The actual enumeration shall be made within
three vears &c. The number of representatives
shall not exceed one for every thiity thousand,
&c. And until such enumeration shall be made,
the ftate~of New-Hampthire shall choose three,
&c. Yet this provision cannot take immediate
elfeft, a legislative ast must intervene, if it were
only to fix the ratio of representation, by which
the number of members would be ascertained ;
and as no provision is made in the constitution
for the admifiion of additional members, or for
lefleningthe numberof members from those states
whole census will not authorise their present
numbers (which by the constitution is equally re
quired) until the next biennial election, we con
ceived that this conflitutional right must be polt
poned till that period. These reasons were con
clusive with me ; but surely the time when the
additional members should take their feats ought
to be so regulated as to give all the states an op
portunity of coming forward at the fame time,
otherwifc very unequal advantages would accrue
to those near the feat of government, and whole
legislatures might be in ieflion. And this can
only be done by ast of Congress, and was pro
vided for in the clause of the bill abovemention
ed. But as this matter appeared so clearly in
a different light to you and to the Assembly of
Virginia, as not to induce a suspicion that Con
gress would ast on the principle which theyhave
embraced —and as the bulinefs is again taken
up, and the whole ground I pretume to go over,
1 (hall be extremely obliged by a communication
of your reasons, and will if poftible become a
convert.
" Will the people of Virginia proceed to
cleft membets-without any ast of Congress on
the fubjeft ? Though the r bufinel's is again ta
ken up and a resolution for bringing in the bill
made the order of the day tor next Thursday, I
have no expectation that a law will finally pass
in any fliape beforethe second Tuesday in Fe
bruary —certainly not in time to be promulga
ted.
" Should Virginia bring forward a measure
which cannot be'fupported, it will afford matter
of triumph and malignant pleasure to vauous de
scriptions of men, while her most affectionate
sons will feel a chagrin scarcely to be endur
ed," '
The River Nile.
[ExtraCtedfrom an original letter, written by an
American traveller, who not long /nice died in
Grand Cairo.)
Having left Alexandria, where there is
little to arrefl the curiosity of a stranger
except a few melancholy lhattered reliques
of antiquity, I proceeded in a boat up the
celebrated river Nile. Of all the disap
pointments I ever experienced, the fight of
this river was the giealeit. It was now
late in the month or August, when it was
near the height of its swell, consequently
my imagination, and the accounts of
former travellers, had led me to expect an
inuridated country in the lower Egypt, with
houses, villages and towns upon artificial
mounts surrounded by water. Be not sur
prized when I tell you, that the European
travellers into Egypt have been universal
ly, liars. The iSlie (you may rely upon
my word) is not an inundating river : 1 saw it
at its height, or very nearly so, and the lur
face was no where let's than four and five
feet from the top of the banks. If the
parched foil of i gypt depended upon a
natural overflow of tlie Nile, for its fertility,
the country would soon be deserted by the
inhabitants. To answer this purpose, ca
nals and ditches are cut in all directions
through the plains, which upon its rife are
Supplied by the river ; and by this means is
fertility conveyed every where to the farms
and settlements. I was deceived also in
another refpett ; from the eulogiums of
ancient, as well as modern times, I ex
pefted to find an immenfel} majellic river,
rolling in awful pomp to the oceah.—No
such tiling, my friend —It is but a dirty
puddle, comparatively speaking, not so
wide in general as Connecticut river, and
to fay the exact truth, but little wider than
the Thames in most places.
Indian Antiquities.
Never was a more abfurcl supposition
than that of certain philotbphers or natur
alists who have ascribed the curious re
mains of antiquity in the Indian country to
Ferdinand Soto, a Spanith military adven
turer in America, about two centuries ago.
Soto had but a few men, and even from
his own accounts, rather ran the gantlett
among the American savages, than made a
ft*y in anyplace Jong enough to erect the
superb works, the ruins of which are fd
much talked of by travellers. Certain
nieroglyphical inscriptions upon rocks, still
remaining in the immense western regions,
have been thought by some to be the work
of S oto and his followers ; and have been
brought as an argument to prove the reali
ty of his visits to those remote regions. Late
travellers, however, have discovered that
tho'/e inscriptions are totally unlike any
tiling of the kind everfeeniu Europe. Had
they been the work of Soto they would 110
doubt have pfefented us some remain.;, or
Similitude to the Roman character : where
as, this is by no means the cafe, and the ve
ry Eagles which are said, by some, to have
been engraved on the rocks by the Spanish
soldiers, are discovered to be nothing more
than the rude refemblantes of wild turkies,
done by the hands of Indians.
Government of the United States.
POWER being found by univerfil expe
rience linble to abuses, a distribution of
it into fepirate departments, has be
come a firft principle of tree governments.
By this contrivance, the portion entrusted
to the fame hands being less, there is lets
room to abuse what is granted ; and the
different hands being interested, each in
maintaining its own, there is less opportu
nity to usurp what is not granted. Kence
the merited praise of governments model
led on a partition of their powers into le
gislative, executive, and judiciary, and r
repartition of the legislative into different
louses.
The political system of the United States
claims (till higher praise. The power de
legated by the people is firft divided be
tween the general government and the state
governments ; each of which is then subdi
vided into legislative, executive, and judi
ciary departments. And as in a tingle go
vernment these departments are to be kept
eparate and fafe, by a defenfive armour for
;ach ; so, if is to be hoped, do the two go
vernments pofTefs each the means of pre
senting or correcting unconstitutional en
:roachments of the other.
Should this improvement 011 the'theory of
"ree government not be marred in the exe
:ution, it may prove the best legacy ever
eft by lawgivers to their country, and the
)e!t lefl'on ever given to the world by its
ienefa£tors. If a security against power
ies in the division of it into parts mutually
;onti ouling each other, the secUrity must
ncreafe with the increase of tlie parts into
.vliicli the whole can be conveniently form
ed.
It must not be denied that the task of
'orming and maintaining a division of pow
?r between different governments, is great
er than among different departments of the
ame government; because it may be more
?afy (though fufficiently difficult) to fepa
•ate, by proper definitions, the legislative,
-xecutive, and judiciary powers, which are
nore diftinft in their nature, than to difcri
nfciaie, by precise enumerations, one class
>f legislative powers from another class,
>ne class of executive from another class,
tnd one class of judiciary from another class;
\ here the powers being of a more kindred
lature, their boundaries are more obfeure
tnd run more into each other.
If the task be difficult, however, it must
>y no means be abandoned. Those who
vould pronounce it impollible, offer no al
ernative to their country but schism, or
onfolidation : both of them bad, but th
atter the worst, since it is the high road to
nonarchy, than which nothing ( worse, in
he eye of republicans, could result from
he anarchy implied in the former.
Those who love their country, its repose,
md its republicanism, will therefore study
o avoid the alternative, by elucidating and
,uarding the limits which define the two
'overnments; by inculcating moderation
11 the exercise of the powers of both, and
larticularly a mutual abstinence from such
is might nurse present jealoulies, or engen
ler greater.
In bestowing the eulogies due to the par
itions and internal checks of power, it
>ught not the less to be remembered, that
hey are neither the sole nor the chief palla
lium of constitutional liberty. The people
,vho are the authors of this blessing, must
Iso be its guardians. Their eyes must be ever
-ady to maik, their voice to pronounce, and
heir arm to repel or repair aggreflions on the
uthority of their conflitutions; the higheil au
hority next to their own, because the immediate
vork of their own, and the mod sacred part of
heir property, as recognizing and recording the
ltle to every other. Feb. 4.
On the Origin of Nobility.
THE most attentive observers of human
lature have found it to comprize within
tfelf a vast variety of virtues and vices,
<very individual of our species having cer
ain qualities, or a certain general tem
lerament of his own, in the lame manner
is every degree of latitude from the equa
or to the pole (or, as far as vegetation
■xtends) has one or more productions al
noft peculiar to itfelf, ftourifhing in its
>wn parallel, and gradually declining in
;rowth or quality as they are removed
'herefrom to the Northward or Southward.
There being thus, fram nature, different
grades of virtue in the human ipecies, up
on viewing the ifiatter in theory, it would
seem proper enough that the moil virtuous
(hould be the real nobility of every nation,
the fathers and instructors of the rude po
pulace, the examples atid patrons or moral
it /, the promoters of peace, a::d the mofl
> c >i,-e agents in t. ' I 'ppinefs. peace and
prosperity of the g eat tciily of mankind.
There can be little doubt that such was
the firft idea upon which a diftinit nobility
was* founded, which, from its patriotic
harafter, served at once as a guard against
:he ambition of monarch': and to moderate
:he tumultuous impetuonty of the multi
aide. , Unfortunately, virtue proved to be
lot heffcditary, and when men were once
nduced to count upon a parental tranfmif
lon of the virtues that do real honour to
rtan, they soon experienced the fatal con
equences of such a belief. Hence, the idea
}f virtue itf'clf became changed, her true
lature was mi (laken, and among the Ro
nans, in particular, for many ages, the
iVord imported nothing more than courage
ir brutal ferocity.
One or the other of two interests, it is
aid, for the moll part prevail in every gov
ernment, the monied interest, or family in
:ereft. In the present age, when all ro
nautic ideas seem to be obliterated and
equal rights are coming more and more in
:o vogue, the latter of these two interests
ias become extremely weak, unlef> con
lefted with or included in the former. 1 lie
French Count, who was descended from
Charlemagne, gained very little refpeit
when people fouud he climbed up a fig tree
ance a day to make his dinner 6n figs; and
:he Swifspeafant must have been rather ri
diculed than otherwise, who, upon the
Trength of his ancient nobility, every day
aid to his son, Duke ! do me the honour to go to
'he Jtye, and feed the hogs.
lr amily interest then, at the present day,
nay be fairly considered as one and the
aiiie thing with the monied interelt of a
:ountry, (ince this interest will in future be
he foundation for family, and confequent
y the probable mother of dofpotifm. Eve
•y atttnnptto counter-aft the efforts Of the
•ich by instituting an hereditary order, de
riving their importance, exclusively, from
he virtues or merits of their ancestors, will
10 doubt, prove abortive.
Moftofthe present real nobility in F.u
ope, as well as Asia, may be called the pof
eritv of invaders and plunderers. Their
tnceilorshad discernment enough to know,
hat what were called heroic actions, var
lilhed over by the hand of historical fame,
vould not be fufficientto enfiire the future
niportance of their descendants, uncon
lefted with substantial domains. Hence
>riginated the peasantry of those countries,
vho are no other than vallals to the heirs of
jlundered property.
The only effe£tual check upon the monied
ntereft (which ever lies among a few) must
n-oceed from the efforts of the popular inter
jl. —When the people, however, become
b inattentive as not to know what those in
erefts are, or are artfully precluded from
>eing acquainted with them by the virtual
irohibition of a free circulation of know
edge and information, those efforts must in
hat cafe be of little or no avail, as that
nan would appear superlatively ridiculous
,vho came to demand a right; and from ha
>its of neglect, mif-information, or 110 in
brmation at all, had not a lingle rational
dea, what those rights are. Feb. 3.
PRICE of STOCK.
Six per cents, for cacti, - 2.5/0 i-2v
Three per cents, - - 1 Sf3'
Deferred fix per cents, -- - - 1 5J4*
Final Settlements, &c. - 22f.
indents, -
Sank Stock 1-2 Shares 105, to 109 pr. ct. prem%
Prizes in the Tulpehocken canal 68 to 70 dl.
Meteorological Observations.
January, 1792.
D. H. Bar. Ther. WindjWeath.
Monday, 30. 7 30. 25 8 n. e. Cloudy
2 30. 15 28 do. Snom.
lutjday, 31. 7 29. 538 s. w.Rain.
2 29. 5 39 do. Cloudy.
Wednesday, 7 29. 731 w. Cloudy.
Feb. 1. 2 29. 75 32 do. ditto.
Fhurjday, 2. 7 29. 826 w. iair.
2 2q. 830 do. ditto.
Friday, 3. 730.15 21 n.w.iair.
2 30. 7 39 s. w. ditto.
Saturday, 4. 7 29. 930 calm. Cloudy.
2129. 839 do. ditto.
Sunday, 5. 729.75 36 n.w .Fan.
2,29. 847 w. Cloudy.
WANTED, to go to a healthy flounlhing
town in New-Jerl'ey, a DISTILLER,
:hat can be recommended for knowledge and a
bilitiesin his profeflion, as well as sobriety and
jenera) good character. Any person, so quali
fied, will meet with the mod generous encou
ragement. The works are entirely prepared for
the dillillation of grain, and the perlon engaging
will be put into immediate employ. —Enquire of
the Editor of this paper, at No. 239 Maiket
ftreet, or at 58 North Fifth-ftreet
Feb .6. law. tf-MARRIAGE A-LA-MODE.
[Occasioned by a quarrel between a wearer and j
ditcher j the latter having supposed his famih
consequence disgraced by the clandestine mar'
fiage of his son with the weaver's daughter. J
BORN in the woods, in neighboring cabbin
bred,
'S wo lovers long a mutual passion fway'd,
hen vex d with lice, file fondly comb'd hi
head ;
He often help'd her with the hoe and fpadfe
Her spinning wheel if accidents befel,
He strait with joy repaired the rude machine,
And once a week (not led by found of bell)
At country church was each'fond lover seen.
Amidst these joys ambition had no (hare,
■No hope of Ipendid domes, no wealth had they ;
Amid ft these jojs, this loving, lounging pair
Wiiat could have tempted to have run-a-way ?
To gofiip Joan's (he hardly knew the road,
He to the market and the mill had been ;
Their names unknown beyond the adjacent wood
He had no towns, and lhe no cities seen.
At midnight hour, when troubled ghosts patrol
He, silent, to her bed-room window came $
She from her nest of straw to meet him stole ;
He, mounted on his nag, bore off the dam^.
A (haggling parson tied the sacred knot—
A quick pursuit the trembling couple fear'd.
Then mov'd again, and fore'd the steed a-trot,
Her father's voice in every breath (he heard.
By break of day be-devi)'d and be.fwamp'd,
Oeep in the mire, this couple and their nag
Were fix'd—-(he fnuffled, while he swore anc
ftampNJ,
Horfe-whip'd thehorfe,and call'd his bride a hag
Slow, asd on foot, with shame returning home,
Both trom their angry friends forgivenels pray,
Then to his spade he turns, and (he her loom :
And when they're a(k'd thereafon of their flight
He answers strait, (as many other's might)
Z.urs, tis the talhion, now, to run-a-way !"
Feb. 2.
from the American Daily Advcrtijcr.
c a i us, No. nr.
IN the review already taken, it will be seen
that republican principles are not less endan
gered from ambitious, latent defigos, cloaked it
the garb of ministerial fvftems, than from th.
more open and avowed attacks of a bold and per.
fevering aristocratic junto, which exists amongf
us ; and (hould the silence and success whicl
have hitherto marked the progress of those fyf
tems, induce a confidence, that the further pur.
luitof t/.em will be equally fuccefsful, it wouU
perhaps be wife in those who patronize them, t<
pause and refle&, that there is a point at whict
further adherence to a pernicious system become
treason against the rights of the people : that thi
principles of the lall glorious revolution, whid
was pillared on republicanism, are still dear to th<
hearts of Americans : that the public mind, a],
though seemingly indifferent or inattentive to tlx
present progress cf things, is not insensible, no:
the fpiritof the people extinfl—and that howe
ver minute the instance, or subtle the approacf
of opprefiion, yet, when manifeft, a commor
sense of danger will unite the people in oppolitior
to it. Let it be remembered too, that this i;
not the cause of party or of faction, or of any in
dividual, but the common interest of every citi
zen $ and moreover, that it is no exaggeration ol
evil, or evidence of disposition to caulelefs com
plaint, to ask, " Why are members of Congrel:
permitted to hold and exe.-cife the office ofbank
direftors, under the authority of a law enaded b;,
themfclves ? when it is provided by the fame law
that these diredtors may receive any emolument;
which the ftnckholders (hall vote, and when th;
constitution of the United States has exprefsl)
provided " that no pcrfon holding any civil offict
under the authority of the United States, (hall bi
a member of either house." As a man of plair
understanding, my faculties cannot diftlnguifti.
why, under fanftion of this precedent, the Secre
tary of the Treasury himfelf may not be eligibJc
to a feat in Congrifs : nor can 1 discover, how
any enieavor to juftify so direfl a violation of thi
constitutional rights of the people, will not be re
garded as aa attempt to trifle with the public
mind, and the addition of insult to injury Ji
will not be forgotten that one precedent create,
another, until by accumulation they conftituti
law, and that while examples are quoted to jufti
fy the moll dangerous measures, there is always
a mode of reasoning by analogy to fuppiy anj
supposed defeiSt in each new assumption of power.
Thus it will not be remote, (hould the precedenl
remarked on be fuffered to remain, before undei
the power of Congress to grant exdufive charter;
of incorporation, we may hope to fee land jobber;
as well as (lock jobbers, manufailuring, com
reercial and filhing companies, severally incorpo
rated under the management of direflors, mem
bers of that honorable body, receiving fix dollar;
a day from the people, and as many thousands pei
annum from their refpeftive companies, by which
all the great interests of the union being confoli.
dated under the care and managementof one wif<
and immaculate body of men, the people will bt
contented and the nation happy And will ii
still be a(ked, Where is the instance of dangei
from ministerial systems ? x Or will the public Lit
longer amused with the contemptible puffings ol
ministerial sycophants, or of intercfted and pros
titute flatterers ? It will be well for fjch tore
member, that the political reputation of theii
principalis built on the balis of an humble and
iervile imitation of British systems of finance, and
all their baneful concomitants of debt funded and
unfunded, annuities, chances, lotteries, tontines
and schemes from British authors and Britifli sta
tute boots, without steu the merit cf originality,
and tinder the miferablf, mirtaken policy of en
grafting upon the American constitution, health
ful, young and vigorous, all the weaknefFes, vice:
and infirmities of the decayed and expiring confti-
Nation of Britain* And I trust the public wil
never be at a loss, how justly to appreciate thi
-nerits and endeavors of the daring and
unto I refer to, who may not, inaptly, be thu:
:hara£tcrized : " unanimous and cilijentin in
:rigue, variable in principles, constant to flattery
alkers for liberty, but slaves to power."
CAIUS.
From the Maryland. Journal.
On thepropojed TAX t» NEWSPAPERS.
f" CANNOT help lamenting, when I confide]
jL the great injury the people will derive from ft
inprecedented and partial a tax, as that propofec
>y Congress, on the cairiage of newspapers-—un
precedented, because I believe no such thing wa:
ver heard of before, uniefs it was in countries
vhere the government wifli to prohibit the circu
ation of newspapers ; and partial, because it i:
>aid by one particular profeflion only. It is cer
ainly a tax, and, for my part, I believe it liuli
liort of a stamp-— and I wifli it may not provi
note deftrudive to the profenion, than any (lamp
could poflibly be. I have always underftooc
t as one grand principle, in our political creed
' that the freedom of the press ought not to b:
eftrained and I well know that the citizens o
his country are so fully imprefled with this idea
hat any fleps which might be taken to obftru£
t, would be considered in a very unfriendlv poin l
>f view. The people are not without their jea
oufies and fears, and ] hope they never wilt be
is it is that alone which can prevent the arm o
luthority from encroaching upon their rights ant
iberties. The liberty of the press is the gram
palladium of our political freedom—the peopli
lave a sacred regard towards its preservation, anc
hey have too much penetration not to feel alarm
d, when they fee any measures taken to clog it
t is the only channel through which they can bi
nformed of the proceedings of their rulers. Thei
ire already but badly informed of them, whicl
las given rife to many mifapprehenilons $ ant
hey will be much worse informed, flioula the pro
iwfed enormous tax, or postage, take place.
There are now publifned in Virginia, nim
lewfpapers, and more than two-thirds of them en
irely depend upon fubferiptions, for their sup
>ort. Now, is it poflible that a printer, who
jerhaps, does not receive more than one or twi
idvertifements a week (for this is aftuaily thi
:afe with many of them) can afford to pay thiei
>r four dollars a week postage ?—His fubferip
ions will barely support his papers, and they ari
>aid annually. A printer, therefore, thus situated
nuft give up his business—and this will be th«
:afe with a great many of them. Here is an a<£
)t government, retraining the press, by whicl
he people are debarred of that ufeful source o
nformation. Will they not, then, have fear
ind apprehensions ? I know it is suggested, b'
ome, that so many newipapers are a burthen t<
he Community—but, if there was one printed a
:very court-house in Virginia, I believe the
vould greatly tend to preserve our internal trail
luilitv, and would prove a biefiing to the commu
lity j and I will not harbour the idea, that an 1
me can be so great an enemy to his country, a
o wifli to destroy a profeflion that has proved f,
leneficial to it.
In Nurth-Carolina, there are but two newfpa
iers published, and which afford but little profi
o the proprietors of them. Here, in my opinion
.overnment ought rather to contribute toward
he support of the press, than do any thing whicl
night tend to destroy it. The printers of bot!
hefe newspapers derive little or no profit from ad
'ertilements—how, then, are they to pay thepoft
ge ? and, if they do not receive the papers froiT
heir brother-printers, how will the people of thi
tate be informed of the proceedings of govern
nent?—This state is worse off than any othe
late in the union, in the circulation of newspapers
ind 1 do firmly believe, that the enmity still pre
'ailing in this state to the federal government, ma'
ie attributed to that cause. How, then, will thi
)eoplc be informed, should these two printers bi
ibliged to give up ?
In South-Carolina, there are three newspaper
lubliflied, two of which are printed in Charleston
he other, I expert, will meet the fate of the rd
if his unfortunate brethren, whole paper is no
mply furniihed with advertisements.
In Georgia, there are two. Both in South
-arolina and Georgia, the news-papers circulati
ladly, and will much worse, when the people fine
hemfelves heavily taxed to receive that knowledgi
't the conduit of their rulers, which ought to b<
onveyed to them upon the moll easy terms poffi
Now, situated as the printing business is, in thi
euthern part of the United States, is it policy, v
s it lafe, in Congress, to abridge the number o
lews-papers .'—and, if they lay that heavy poll
ige, or tax, which they have at present in con
emplation, the downfal of some of them will bi
he natural consequence.
The printers of the United States have alway
hewn th-mfelves to be men of liberal and inde
•endent sentiments ; and, I am well convintcd
vould cheerfully pay a compensation for their pa
>ers being conveyed in the mail-coaches—but so
jovernment to attempt to derive a revenue fi-orr
hem, is a nieafure so partial and impolitic, that,
latter myfelf, a majority ofour representatives, on
eviewof the fubjert,will be more favorably dispose,
owards them. ?>y the proposed poft-office plan, i
ran ejfily be proved, that from the pointers aloni
[if they were able to pay it) upwards of sixty thou
'and dollars would be annually paid to governmen
-a sum fully fufficienr, with proper management
:o support the poft-ofEce establishment—and tlii
:o be extracted from the vitals of the poor printer
jI the United States !— A circumstance they littli
-xperted while struggling, with their fellow-citi
tens, in the late glorious contest, and, since thi
germination of that happy period which gave u
iberty, have less reason to expert, in our prefer!
louriihing and prosperous situation. Thepoft
-nafterS appear to have been txtrtmely anxious ii
this bujinefs, anJ they really have completely ef
fected their purpofe—for, they are to receive one
half of this portage, for their additional trouble ;
and the fatt is, they will have no more trouble
then, than they have now.
But, have not the mail-carriers carried the prin
ter* papers, lor these seven years part, without
a/king one shilling more for so doing ? And would
they not have done it again, if Congress had not
interfered in the buiinefs ? Then, why fhouid Con
gress Caddie the printers with a tax that is unne
cefl'ary ?—or why should Congress tax them more
than what is necessary to pay the carrijge of their
papers ? The fadl is, Congress ought not to have
interfered in this matter at all. They might,
with equal propriety, lay a portage upon the bag
gage going in the mail-coach. The printers* pa
pers are, indeed, part of the baggage, though they
have been admitted in the mail. The carriers of
the mail had a right to refufe to carry newspa
pers j and, if they had done so, the printers would
have compensated them for their additional trou
ble, rather than pay government an enormous tax,
unparalleled in the proceedings of any political bo
dy on earth.
I hope, however, that Congress will permit the
printers to exchange their papers with each other,
free of portage, as it is of material consequence,
both to them and to the citizens at large, in the
mean time, the printers had better associate to
gether, and adopt some plan, so that their papers
may be conveyed, through their friends and bre
thren, in the places where their papers circulate,
to their fubferibers, without troubling the post
masters with the business. Their papers may be
conveyed in the mail-rtage, from one end of the
continent to the other, at a considerable less ex
penle than that proposed by Congress-—and they
may lave the fifty percent, by getting their friends
and brothers to deliver their papers to their fub
feribers. In this they will be countenanced j for
there is not a citizen but reprobates the proposed
tax, or portage, on newspapers.
PHILANTHROPOS.
Virginia, Jan. 1792.
Remarkable Appearances in Nature.
['Tranjlctedfrom the ivcrks of a late French Tra
veller,]
NATURE always gives some presage propor
tionately great to the danger /he intends.—This
oblervation may be particularly applied to the
temperts about the Cape of Good Hope, which
are much more terrible than any we are acquaint
ed with in these parts of the world. It may be
remarked here, that every kind of tempert is cha
racter; (tic of its latitude j the storms in the neigh
borhood of the Cape of Good Hope are different
from those about Cape Horn j those of the Bal
tic are not like those in the Mediterranean, and
the temperts upon the banks of Newfoundland do
not resemble those on the coast of Africa. And
in all these places they are different again in dif
ferent seasons, and in different hours of the day.
I remember to have been in two severe florms in
doubling the Cape of Good Hope, and in both the
Hey was perfectly clear, of a delightful blu®, and
the sea, all the while, of an azure colour. There
appeared, indeed, over head, a thin mist, some
thing, in point of colour, like polirtied brass, ri
sing from a particular point of the horizon, and
flying with the rapidity of an eagle.
In one of these gales, about midnight, a severe
clap of thunder rtruck our main-mart, founding
in our ears precisely like the discharge of a C2nnon
at a small dirtance. This was in the month of
June, which is their firft winter month in the la
titude of the Cape of Good Hope.
I was in another gale, when re-pafling the
Cape in the month of January, which is the
height of their summer. The sky was perfectly
clear, as before, except five or fix clouds in the
horizon, of considerable size, which resembled
broken precipices, or the fliarp crags of moun
tains suspended in the air. In this storm we had,
as before, the thin mist, or feud flying over our
heads ; the sea perfe&ly azure-coloured ; and
upon the comb of the waves there was a constant
succession of rain-bows, delightfully variegated
with the most pleasing colours.
Severe temperts and hurricanes, blowing amidst
a glare of light, are more frightful caneafily
be imagined. The mind becomes troubled, to
find a raging ocean amidrt all the usual £gns of a
calm, and the clear blue of the heavens, and the
rain-bow itfelf serving only as a prelude to the
rudert convulsions of nature. In thtfe phenome
na the principles of harmony seem to be disturb
ed. Nature assumes a perfidious character, and,
under the appearance of benevolence, is secretly
Loiling w:th all the violent emotions of the most
irritated resentment.
GLASGOW.
We have been favored with a copy of a letter from
David Dale, Esq. Glasgow, to Colonel Dalrym
pie, of Fordell, which breath 9 such a spirit of
phflanthrophy that we give it entire :
October 20.
" SIR,
ft I AM jurt favored with your esteemed letter
of the 19th current, and I have already done all
that you suggest with refpeft to the Highland emi
grants. So soon as I learned that they wi/hed to
temain, if they could find employment to them
selves and families, I sent two friends to Grefnock,
and invited ©Id and young to come to this place,
and I would give employment to them all. I have
lent up in waggons several families to Lanerk, and
the reft are now in my house waiting the return
of the waggons to take up the whole.
if I have, for some time part, been devising eve
ry method I could think of to contribute my mite
towards preventing these emigrations, which are
not less hurtful to the poor people themselves than
to this country j and I have been making attempts
to introduce a branch of the cotton manufactory
into the Highlands, which I find will soon spread,
and employ a number of people; but I wish to
fee a plan executed that wouid enable the people
in the Highlands and in the lilands to work up
their own wool, and I do not despair feeing an
ertabliftiment of this kind, which is better suited
(or the Highlands than any other manufa&ure.
nut though such a plan were already
ic would be too flow in its operations to produce
that immediate relief to the poor people that their
prefenc situation requires j for I have informatics*
that there are now persons traversing the
to entice the poor people to go to America, I
have, therefore, wrote to several persons, to en
deavor to fend information to all the places where
the people are proposing to leave their native coun
try, to advertise them that they may ail have em
ployment in the Lowlands, particularly in Glaf-
Eow, Paisley, and the towns and villages round
them j and I have pledged myfeif to build houses
at Lanerk for 200 families, and to give them em
ployment.
" Several gentlemen in this place are forming
a society to prevent emigrations, and your sub-
Icription will be thankfully received. lam con
fident that not a single person in Scotland, who is
able and willing to work, has any occasion to leave
their native country for want of the means of a
comfortable subsistence j and the design of the so
ciety now forming here is, to diredt the people in
the Highlands, who are under the necefTity of leav
ing their own country, where to find employment
without going to America. Could the people find
employment in the Highlands, it would be much
better for them to remain there j but, as this is
not the cafe, the best thing that can be done for
them, and for this country, is, to invite all th3t
cannot find employment to come here, and they
will be provided for.
(t I am, dear Sir,
44 Your humble and obed'ent
" DAVID DALE."
[The following is a copy of the report of the com
mittee on Mr. Churchman's memorial, the
substance of which was given in our laft—fes
No. 28 for Wednesday's minutes.]
1 he committee, to whom was referred the me
morial of John Chuichman, have had the fame
under confederation, and report as follows : .
That the said Churchman having puriued his
enquiries into his theory of the variation ©f the
magnetic needle, has found a number of observa
tion?, made in different parts of the world, which
confirm his hypothecs J—-that, animated by this
-ii cumftance, and applauded for his ingenuity,
by several learned societies in Europe, which have
looked up to him for the profccution of his plan
ror eftablifiiing the truth of his theory, he has been
-mboldened to ask again the aid of the general go-,
7eminent of the United States, to enable him to
gratify the expectations of the philosophical world,
and to put his theory to an immediate and the
Urifteft scrutiny.
The committee are free to declare it as their
opinion, that Mr. Churchman's ingenuity dis
played in proposing and supporting bis theory, and
his labors in prosecuting his examination thereof,
entitle him to the applause of the enlightened
world, and to the encouragement and support of
his country. And it is the opinion of the com
mittee that as a more perfedi knowledge of the
laws of magnetism, and the variation of the mag
netic needle is greatly to be desired, as it would
furnifli a ready means ofadjufting and preventing
dilputes refpefling the boundaries of ancient sur
veys of land, and of correcting many inconve
niences in geographical chart*, and in the journals
of the courses and distances run by veffeis at sea,
rvery poflibJe encouragement ought to be given to
all persons, who, by their theories confirmed by
abfervations, contribute the perfc&ing
this desirable knowledge j and that as the United
States are peculiarly interested in whatever can
adjust or prevent disputes between their citizens,
and can improve geography and navigation, the
Congrefsof the United States may with great pro
priety patronize such a person as Mr. Church
man, and grant him such aid as may be necessary
to enable him to prosecute his laudable enquiries
to good effe<st. But the committee submit it to
rhe wisdom of the House to fay whether in the
prefenr cireumflances of the United States such
jrant shall now be made.
As to that part of the memorial which states,
that in the a£t for the encouragement of learning
by securing the copies of maps, charts and books
to their authors and proprietors, the penalty an
nexed, to the offences of copying such maps and
charts was too small, and by no means adequate
.<> the offence, and praying for an a£t to amend
the fame, the committee are of opinion, that the
prayer of the memorialist is readable, and that
copy right of map?, charts, tables and print?, ought
to be secured to their refpeftive authors or their
affigos, by greater penalties than those declared in
the a£t aforefaid, and that a committee ought to
be appointed to bring in a bill far this purpose.
H O W E L L's
SMALL MAP of PENNSYLVANIA.
May be had of Mr. Bailey, and Mr.Crvkjhanh
Printers, in Market-street; or of the author in
Nr. Fifth-flreet, No. 88, who has the said maps
pafled on canvass, cut, folded andcafed for pock
et carriage.
Philadelphia Jan. 30. 1792.
This Day are publijhed,
SERMONS,
Hiflorical and Chara&eriftical:
By WILLIAM LINN, D. D.
One of the Minijlers of the Reformed Pratt fan!
Dutch Church, in the city of New-York.
Sold by T. DOBSON, R. CAMPBELL, &
M. CAREY.
[Price Three Quarters of a Dollar.]
PRINTED BY
c H I L D S AND S W A I N E,
AT TH £IR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIGH-STREE
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
*HILA9E L P H I A .