Vol. I.
FOR the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
RULES
For changing a limited Republican Govern
ment into an unlimited hereditary one.
[Continuedfrom our lafl.j
IX.'T' H E management of a great
X funded debt and an extensive
fyflem of taxes will afford a plea not to
benegle&ed, for eflablifliing a great in
corporated bank The use of such a ma
chine is w'l und rilood. If the coafti
tution, according to its fair meaning,
should not authorize it, so n uch the bet
ter. Pu<h it through by a forced mean
ing, and you will get in the bargain an
admirable precedent for future m.lcon
ftruclions. In falhioning the bank re
member that it is to be made particular
ly instrumental in enriching and aggran
dizing the cleft f v/, who are to be called
in due season to the honors and felicities
of the kingdom preparing for them ; and
who a»e the pillars that mull support it.
It wil be easy to throw the benefit en
tirely into their hands, anJ to make it a
solid addition of 50, or Go, or 70 per
centc to their former capitals of 800 per
cent, or 900 per crnt. without colling
them a shilling; whilst it will be so
difficult to explain to the peopl • that this
gain of the few is at the colt of the many,
that t'"e contrary may be boldly and fafely
pr tended. The bank will be pregnant
with other important advantages. It
will admit the fame men to he, at the
fame time, members of the bank and
mem ers of the government. The two
inltitu 10ns will thus be foldere i togethei,
and each midethe stronger Money will
he out under the direction of the govern
mem, and the government under th • di
rection of money. To crown the whole,
the bank will have a ptoper interest in
fuelling and perpetuating the public debt
and public taxes, with all the bh flings of
both, because its agency and its profits
will be extended in cxaft proportion.
X " Divide and govern" is a maxim
consecrated by the experience of ages,
and should be as familiar in its use to
every politician as the knife he carrie s in
his pocket. In the wotk here to be ex
ecuted the bed effects may be produced
by this maxim, and with peculiar faci
lity. An extensive republic made up of
lesser republics, nectffarily contains vari
ous forts of people, diflinguifhed by local
and other interefls and prejudices. Let
the whole groupe be well examined in all
its parts and relations, geographical and
political, metaphysical and metaphorical ;
Jet there be firll a northern and a south.
ern fedtion by a line runnir. east and weft,
and then an eastern and western feftion,
by aline tunning north and south. By a
suitable nomenclature, the landholders
cultivating different article.? can be dis
criminated from one another, all from
the class of merchants, and both from
that of manufacturers. One of the sub
ordinate republics may be represented as
a commercial (late, another as a naviga
tion (late, another as a manufacturing
state, o hers as agricultural slate-,; and
although the great body of the people
in each be really agricultural, and the
other charafteis he more or less com
mon to all, ftili it will be politic to ta.ie
advantage of such an arrangement. Should
the mem! ers of the great republic be of
different size , and fubjeft to little jea
lousies on that account, another impor
tant division will be ready formed to your
hand. Add again the divisions that
triay be carved out of personal interejls,
political opinions, and local parties.—
With so convenient an aflortment of votes,
especially with the he'p of the marked
enes, a majority may be packed for any
cjueftion with as much ease as the odd
trick by an adroit gamcfter, and any
measure whatever be carried or defeated,
es the great revolution to be brought
By P. FRENEAU: Pu.bU.Jhed Wednesday.? and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per aanum.
SATURDAY, July 7, 1792.
about, may require. It is only necessary
herefore, to recommend that full use b:
nade of the resource : and to remark
■ hat, befidcs the direA benefi: to be
drawn from these artifl ial divisions, they
ill tend to [mother the true and natural
one, exilting in all iocieties between the
L-w who are always impatient of political
equality, and the many who can never
ife above it; between thole who are to
mount to the prerogatives, and those
who are to be saddled with the burthens,
of th.- here iitary government to be in
troduced ; in one word, between the ge
neral ma's or the people, attached to
heir republican government and repub
lican interetts, and the chosen band de
voted to monarchy and mammon. It is
of infinite importance that ihis distinCtion
should be kept out of fight. The fuc
cess of the project absolutely requires it.
XI. As soon as fufScient progress in
the intended cha ge (hall have been made,
and the public mind duly prepared, ac
cording to the rules already laid down, it
will be proper to venture on another and
a bolder step towards a removal of the
conilituti nal land-marks Here the aid
of the former encroachments, and all the
other precedents and way paving ma
noeuvres wiil be called in of course. But,
in order to render success the more cer
tain, it w 11 be of special moment to give
the molt plausible an.l po ular name that
can be found, to the power that is to be
usurped. It may be called, for exam
ple, a power for the common fafety or
the public good, or, " the general wel
[are." If tht people fhou'd noi be ton
much enlightened, the name will have a
molt irapofing effedt. It will escape at
tention that i: means, in fa£t, the fame
thing with a power to do any thing the
government pleases " in all caf s wlutfo
ever." To opp >fe the power may con
sequently seem to the ignorant, be
called by the artful, opposing the " gene
ral welfare," and may be cried down un
der that deception. As the people, how
ever, may not tun so readily into the
snare as might be wifhe I, it will be pru
dent to bait it well with some specious
popular interelt. such as the encourage
ment of manufactures, or even of agri
culture ; taking due care not even to
mention any unpopular object to which
the power is equally applicable, such as
religion, &c. &c. See. By this contri
vance, particular clafTcs of people may
poffibiy be taken in, who will be a valu
able reinforcement. With refpeft to the
patronage of agriculture, there is not in
deed much to be expected from it. It
will be too quickly seen through by the
owners and tillers of the foil, that to tax
them with one hand and payback a part
only with the other, is a losing game on
their fide, i'Yom the power over manu
factures more is to be hoped. It will no;
be so ealily perceived that the premium
belloweJ may not be equal to the cir
cuitous tax on consumption, which pays
it. There are particular realons, too,
for pushing the experiment on th s clals
of citizens. I. As they live in towns
and can ast together, it is ci vast confe
q'lence to gain them over to the interest
of monarchy. 2 If the power over them
be once eitablifhed, the government can
grant favours or monopolies as it pleases ;
can raifeordeprefs this or that place, as it
pleases; can gratify this or that individual,
as itpleafes; in a word, by creating a depend
ence in so numerous and important a class of
citizens, it will increase its own indepen
dence of every class, and be more free to
pursue the grand object in contemplation.
3. The expence of this operation will not
n the end colt the government a shilling ;
for the moment any branch of rr.anufac
ture has been brought to a {late of tolera
ble maturity, the exciftmm will be ready
with his conltable and his search-warrant
to demand a reimbursement, and r.s much
more as can be squeezed out of the r.rti
cle. A.ll this, it 13 to be remembered
luppofes that the * -.amifaflßrers will l»c
we a k enough to be cheated, i:i f,me re
spects, out of their own interefis, and
wicked enough, in others, to betray ihofe
of their fallow citizens ; a luppotition
that, if known, wouid totally m»r the
experiment. Great care, therefore, must
be taken to present it from leaking out.
XII. The expediency of seizing every
occasion of external danger for sugment
; ••ni perp?ti>:it ng the (land ing milita
ry force, is t»p obvious to escape. So
important is this matter, that for any loss
t>r dil.ift.er whatever attending the na
tional arm 3, there will be ample consola
tion and compensation in the opportuni
:y tor enlarging the ella dilhment. A
nilitary defeat will become a political
/i&o y, and the loss of a little vulgar
Mood contributes to ennoble 'hat which
lows in the veins of our future dakes and
narquiffes
XIII. The fame prudence will im
prove the opportunity afforded by an in
;reafe of the military expen litures, for
serpetuating the taxes required for them,
if the inconfiften :y and a'ofurd ty of eft« -
bflifhing a perpetual tax for a temporary
ervice Ihould produce any difficulty in the
«uinefs, Rail 10 mull be resorted to
Throw in a; many extraneous motives as
will make up a majority, and the thing
is effected in rn inltant. Wlia: was be
fore evil will become goad as easily as
ilack coul 1 be made white by the fame
magical operation,
XIV. Throughout this great under
taking it wilt be wife to have some parti
cular model constantly in view. The
A-ork can then be carried on more fyfte
naticallv, and every measure be fortified,
irt the pr grefs, by apt illu(lration3 and
mthorities Should there exist a parti
cular monarchy against which thete are
ewer prejudices than against any other:
Should it contain a mixture of the repre
ntative principle so as to present on one
ide the semblance of a republican aipeft ;
hould it moreover have a great, funded
complicated, irredeemable debt, with all
heapparatus and appurtenanccs ofexcifes,
janks, &c. See. &c upon that a steady
tye is to be kept. In all caf.s it will as
ill, and in mod its statute book wi 1 fur
nifh a precise pattern by which there may
t>e cut out any monied or monarchical
jrojeft that may be wanted-
XV. As it is not to be expe&ed that
he change of a republic into a monarchy,
.vith the rapidity desired, can be carried
through without occasional suspicions and
jlarms, it will be neceflary to be prepared
"or such events. The bell general rule
t>n the fnbjeft i 3 to be taken from the
example of crying " Stop thief" si 11.—
Meither lungs nor pens must be fparcd in
charging every man who wiiifpers, or even
thinks that the revolution on foot is me
dilated, with being himfelf an enemy ti:
the ;ltablifhcd government, ar.d meaning
to overturn it. Let the charge be re
tcrated and reverberated till at lad fuel
:onftrfion and uncertainty be produced,
that the people being not able to find ou!
nrhere the truth lies, withdraw their at
tention from the contest.
Many other rules of great wisdom and
efficacy might be added : but it is con
ceived that the above will be abundantly
enough for the purpole. This will cer
taiuly be the cafe, if the people can be ei
therkept afleepfo as not to difcovcr, or be
thrown into artificial divisions, so as not
refill what is silently going f rward —
Should it be found impoffible,however, to
prevent the people from awaking and
uniting; Ihould all artificialdiftin&ions
give way to the natural div/iion between
the lordly minded few and the well-dispo
sed many ; (hould all who have common
interest make a common cause and (hew
an inflexible attachment to republicanism in op
position to a government of monarchy and vl
money ; why then * * * * *
rhdud. Jcr,e 30.
Numb. 72.
On the Disadvantage of CANALS.
[ From an Englijh Publication.]
AMONG other causes of the great
advance in the price of provisions, ot late
years, may be justly reckoned the many
long and large canals which are continu
ally cutting through this island, whereby
very much land is occupied, and a large
part of it the best arable or pallure land.
It is true the keeping of many horses is
Lved'by this method of conveying goods ;
but whether so m ny as cwrrpenfate for
the land employed in them, and the in -
jury done to improved lands through
which they are digge 1, is a queflion wor
thy of attentive enquiry. Dotibtlefs, by
means of canals, the price of land-carri
age is greatly lowered, and, in a mode
rate number, they mnft be a national be
nefit ; but wha:, under proper restric
tions, may be great national benefits,
may become evil* if injudiciously indul
ged. It is no trifling matter to cut up a
fruitful country in canal?, efpeciaily
where the population is increasing, and
where large manufactures demand much
land for their support, as do its inhabi
tants for neceflary food, firing, &c. nor
fliould it be allowed for trifling ccnfider
ations or the interelt of individuals who
may adventure their money in these
greit undertakings. It is not only the
loss of the land taken up in the ca
nals, and the roads for the draft horses
on their fides ; but so far from their banks
as cultivated land can be drained by them,
it mud be less fruitful, as is observable on
the fides of rivers. Brooks also being
sometimes diverted from their natutal
courses to supply the canals, rauH he pre
vented from overflowing the land through
which they run, which may render it
!cfs fruitful ; and water from fpn'ngs may
be so drawn away as greatly to injure dai
ry or grazing farms. The streams of
some parts of >ivers may also be so weak
ened by brooks which were wont to uia
in to them being turned to feed the ca
nals, as to hurt the navigation upon them.
In these national works every circum-
Piance which may be injurious, as well as
:hofe which may promise to be advan
tageous, fliould be well conlidered, and
rood land not be fuffered to be cut up
aut for valid reasons.
FOR the NATIONAL GAZETTE*
Mr. Fr PNEAtT,
SINCE the existence of the federal go
vernme.it, I have not ceased to solicit of
:he representatives of the people an effec
tual system, conformably to the Conftitu
:ion, for promoting the progress of ufeful
irts, by securing to original inventors, pro
oerty in their refpefcive discoveries.
The justice, policy, and utility of fecur
ng mental, equally with local property, I
have long urged.
Notwithstanding all my effort?, added to
to the efforts of others, relative to the fub
e£t, the obje£t is not yet obtained.
Whether, from the novelty of the idea of
i system for feturing mental property ;*
jr, from a want of right information rela
tive to the mental rights of men, or their
igiits in the prcdufts of their genius ; or,
rom a too zealous disposition to do right,
hey have done wrong, or in other words,
'ejl they should secure too much, they have
lot, determinately, secured any property in
discoveries; or, partly from the Whole, or
from other latent causes, 1 am, indeed, loft
in conjecture ; —But, it is, not only, an ac
knowledged fait, by all enlightened men
who have attended to the object, but too
dearly experienced by some on whom it
operates, to wit—that the effect of the ex
iting patent system is, indeed, infinitely
worse than none.
Being determined to porfevere in solicit
ing the deputies of the people, so long as I
am capable of speaking or of writing, till
the object flia.ll be obtained ; and, also, in
the meanwhile, to diffufe as nuich as pofli
ble, any ideas, or matter which occurs to
me, or of which I may from time to time
be poffefled, which will tend to throw light
on the fubjeft ; I am, of consequence, hap
py in having it in my power, and cheerfully
* Or property in the produds of %eniu}.'?*ilirace the enrlieft period, to lay before
public, through :he means of your Ule
:'ul p:t:»er, a cup,- o: the Fiewch Patent Law,
n- ov.'ie-in : which, ti.ough it is exceptiona-
Az :'i ionic of it. parts T (perfection v. ith
: .-n o-.:!g iDi;>r-idie:i le) Jet,, is much the
Mr, - per/eft or any iy(tem H't extant; and
wi.-ch, (be'.ir;tbe a :L of one of the greatest,
molt ii .e a.:il enlightened nations on this
s: ii.be, " iio of ail, nave ascertained and fix
ici ir, liei. Coni'.itution and laws, the civil,
loci a d menial rights of men, the molt
clearly and fully) will, 1 Hatter myfeif have
the elfeT, in operating on-the minds of the
peopl .-, to facilitate tiie eitabliihing of a lyf
licui equally, or more perfecl, relative to
tit.: object, in tiie 1 inted States.
For , N with tiie French nation, in the pre
amble to laid law, 1 fuily coincide, to wit —
" I'liat it vvouid be to attack the rights of
men in their edeuce, not to regard a dif
coverv aj the property of the author."
JOs. BARNES.
Philntl. ,'nly 4th 1792.
t The oily exceptions which have imprejed me.,
are ji si, gianting patents for difcai aies importe :
Jccondiy, prohibiting any per/on, whoJhai! have ob
tained a patent in Fi ante Jt om obtaining one in any
other country , under penolty oj Jufeiting his
Frir.ch right.
[The French PATENT LAW (lull appear in
our next.j
Tor tie NATIONAL GAZETTE.
J HOL D myfeif not to be one of those,
Iligmatized in the Gazette of the bmud
btahs <if Wednesday, who, wiii.e they fei
up trreir own dogmas as tiie infallible creed
of polit.cal oiihodoxy, yet condemn all,
who differ from them, as fools or knaves."
Such conduct would be highly irrational and
liable t>> merited reproach. But when I de
liver my opinion freely oi> the various
abides of the eoniiitut'on.letme not be con
sidered an enemy.o it, or a foot or a knave, and
reprobated a.id abused lucli by writers
who feeni dilpoied to flatter any and every
measure of government, provided some
rich individuals, au influential man, or a
great man ia o.lice, may be ill favor thereof.
Since tne ph.ale " Enemies of the conftitu
tion'' I'eeiiis to be the watch-word of abuse
\v>th some ; let us, for 011 c?, enquire who,
1:1 reality, and what are these enemies of
tiie conftitiition ?
It is anlwered, enemies to the conftitu
t,oll of the United States may be of two
forts ; Oil one fide those who are enemies to
tne union, and wilh todeftroy the conllitu
t:ou which lupports it ; 011 the other fide,
enemies to republican government who
v. iih to deitroy the constitution by ltretch
ing and twilling it into a monarchy. Hap
pily for ir , if there be any enemies of the
In k fore, they are so few and of so little
weight tha: they do not avow therufelves.
Uifunion and anarchy are doctrines both
unpopular and unfa.hionabie. They are
no wnere, nor by any body allowed to be
right and good They are equally con
demned by tne language at a country ta
vei 11 and a city feait.—Much is il to be de
plored that the fame cannot be laid of the
danger 0.1 the other iide, and that a fac
tion is in being, some of whom openiy,
onier.! more coverrty. preach doctrines that
ftnke ai tne root oi ad republican govern
ment. Ii tiie fact be doubted, took Lack tc
a train of pubneation and paragraphs for
.Several year., in a certain n ujpaper, which
having lately taken an alarm bawling ic
iti horns, and trying, at times, to stammer
otic a few repu 1 eanphrafe ; orgo, if you
pieafe, into tiie faihiOnab.e circle.-, where
government is the free ftibjea of eon. erfa
t:on,and yon will wonder what unparalleled
effrontery men of this stamp mult have to
call them eives the true fr.ends of out re
publican fonltitution, and to represent the
opponents of the. 1 iniid.ous holtilities to it,
a, enem as 10 Lberty and the government.
Ii : uey cnufe to praile a id preach up the
Brit.iii monarchy or tiie defpoti.m of Tur
key, .11 the name of liberty let them go 011
without inoleitation; but in the name oi
■ mode'ty E. them cease their hypocritical
can pietennons to a purer zeal for the
republican government orthe United States.
it is ail evalion, and a very fiily one,
not a'i aufwer to the charges which have
teemed agannt (peculating members of the
government, to -plead that there are some of
tae executive no wile involved 111 paper-job
bing ; as if we had already got the Britilli
government among us, wnere government
means that over-ruling branch of it only,
a,id nor, a> here, the whole jrovernment;
or, as if ,t ha.l ever been supposed that all
the men/oers of any part of tne government
had gone astray.
Tiioie who desire to put their finger on
the particular members of the government,
who have Speculated in their own measures,
if tiiey cannot make the discovery by more
o.enable mark;, may consult the books in
the public othces, but particularly the Jub-
Jcription books of the bank■ Should the brokers
be civil enough to open their books also and
explain th ni, it is probable further light will
be '.11. own on the enquiry.
1 ' the opnient Speculators in the public
debt aad tne bank nave a peculiar itch, as is
commonly supposed, to feature our govern
" meiiL 111.0 a lucenefs of the Britiih monar
cny, it doe. not Seem difficult to Solve the
phenomenon. 1. A touliderable number
of ruem are now Britiih Subjects, and of
eumfeprefer monarchy to a republic. 2.Ha
virig made fortunes out of measures copied
from theSritlhadininUtration,their attach
ment ealily links their gains with that ad
m niitration, and proceeds from the admi
nistration to the government. 3. In the
Uritiiii government the moneyed intereit is
the favante a.id the ruling intereit. The mo
med interest here may consequently expect,
by likening odr government to the Britiih,
to get a itronger tenure than they begin
now to have, to theirfavorite and ruling cha
racter with the government. So that ava
rice and ambition n ay not claih, but con
cur, in tiiis cafe. 4. Sudden and fplendic
wealth is but too apt to generate vanity anc
nfolence, a state of the mind very unfriend
ly to republican ideas. 5. Where fuc!
rortunes happen to be made without an)
ufeful industry or laucWole purluit, anc
(till more if made by unjust or rapaciou
means, the pofielibrs become obnoxious tc
popular odium. Hatred begets hatred.
And those who hate tue people are preparec
.0 hate a government of the people.
These observations may account for ar
extraordinary biafs in the great certificate
and scrip-dealers, to favour measures fub
verlive of the constitution. They are tc
be conlidered as enemies to it, not in fa
vor qf disunion and convullion,which woulc
not 111 it their purpofrs : but in favour ot ;
progredive adminijlration of it into a monarchy,
which would ticicle all their palfioas.
A government and its measures (houlc
never be confounded. As a man may be •
friend to a government, and an enem;
to its measures ; so he may be a frienc
to the measures and an enemy to th<
government. If the government be re
publican, and the measures tend to changt
it into a monarchy, a friend to monarch;
mult be an enemy to the government in ex
ast proportion as he is attached to its mea
fures. G.
July 3, me- ___
KNOXViLLh., June 2.
On Sunday, the 17th of May, the go
vernor of this territory arrived at Fay
ette. On his approach he gave the chief:
notice. They instant y determined tt
receive him with all the honors they couk
demonstrate, and requelled that he woulc
hah 'till they should be in readiness to re
ceive him. In a Ihort time they informer
him of their readiness. The chiefs anc
Indians of every description, fuppoled tc
be about two thousand in number, were
drawn tip in two lines, each extending a
bout three hundred yards, leaving an opet
space, through which the governor anc
his honorary escort, commanded by majm
Craig, palled, to the house erefteii for his
temporary residence. Oh his nteiingtm
lines, a firing, in manner of a ft u dt joy
commenced, which was kept .ip till hn
palled through. Shouts of joy immedi
ately fuccecded from all quarters, and in ;
few seconds after he had alighted, unde
the llandard of the United States, display
ed from a pole, erected similar to thoft
formerly er. cted for liberty poles, he wa:
furrouiided by tl e whole number, will
countenance! demonstrative of the utmo't
joy. '1 he governor stayed with tl em 'til
l'hurfday hoi ing public and private t ilk:
with the chiefs, of which many were fron
the lower towns, who unanimously ex
prcffetl great contrition for the depreda
tions committed since the treaty of Hoi
Hon, and their firm determination to pre
vent it for the future.
.The governor then, left them under th<
moil favorable impressions towards the
United States, and of confidence i« hin
as fuperintendant of their affairs. It is tc
be hoped these plcaiing profpedts of peace
will be realized.
The Bloody Fellow, who lately visited
Philadelphia, and who is now diflinguifli
ed by the more honorable title of General
Elkequa, with a deputation from his de
partment, and C::ptain John Watts, who
;.re really the leaders of the nation, ap
peared as the champions of peace, and fin
cerely desirous of concerting measures
with the governor for the better restrain
ing of their unruly young warriors.
At the close of the conference, Genera!
F.fkequa finifhed a very animated speech,
with a d claration to his people, that ii
they committed any more atts of violence
and escaped punifiiment fiom the white
people, they (hould iaeet it at home.
On the 16th inllant, as two sons of Mr,
Wei s, in Hinds's Valley, within twelve
miles of this place, were picking ft raw
berries, fix Indians came up, tomahawked
and scalped them, in his view, and went
off without making further attempts 01
the family. What Indians they were i;
uncer ain, but fulpicioris fall on tlu
Creeks and Cherokees.
On Sunday the 13th of May, a man
and two g'rls were fired on by the In
dians, within four miles of Nafkvilie. The
man and one giil tfcaped ; the other girl
was tomahawked by the Indians.
Early on the rrorning of the 17th ult.
his honor Judge Campbell, and his party,
en their re;urn from Cumberland, about
four miles east of Emmery's river, were
stacked by a party of Indians, who fired
on their front, and killed Mr. William
Clark This party had only one gun to
defend t'nemfelves, and that was lendered
useless, by having the wiper broke in the
barrel.
PHILADELPHIA.
July 7, 1-92.
Wednesday, the 4th instant, being the an
niversary of the Independence of the Uni
ted States of America (completing sixteen
years fincethe declaration of independence)
was celebrated in this city with every de
monstration of joy suitable to the occasion :
12 o'clock the Minister of France and
:he Ministers of other foreign nations, the
afficers of the city militia, and many ref
jeftable citizens, waited on the President
jflheU. States, and congratulated him on
:he day—The (late society of the Cincinm
'ijpreceded by the Governor and Chief Juf
;ice of the S-ate, (their President and Vice-
President) went also in proceflion, nearly
ibout the fame time, to pay their refpefts
to the President of the United States.—A
number of cannon were discharged on the
occasion, and an entertainment in honor of
the day was given at Oeller's Hotel by the
Cincinnati, to which the heads of depart
ments and foreign ministers were invited,
who favored the society with their company
—Fire works were to have been displayed n
the evening, but the badnefsof the day, be
ing almost a continual heavy rain, prevent
ed. This exhibition is postponed, we hear,
to the 14th of July, the memorable anniver
sary of the French Revolution ; on which
day, it is expected, there will, in future, be
a general rejoicing in every part of the Uni
ted States, by all who are friends to the
French Revolution, and consequently reai
friends to the revolution in America.
The following, among other patriotic
republican toasts, was lately drank at a mi
litary exhibition in the state of Vermont.
" May the American states be long defend
ed from the inundation which is threaten
ed by the increase of aristocrats, who wish
for a rich metropolis and a poor peasantry ;
want a great personage's head 011 the cur
rent coin ; and are advocates for keeping
shut the doors of the Senate."
On Saturd y last some boys bathing in a
pond near this c'tv, one of them wandering
from the refl, funk into a deep hole and dis
appeared. After laying under water about
twenty minutes he was at length taken up,
to all appearance dead. By rubbing him
with fait, however, in less than twenty mi
nutes the body exhibited ligns of reanima
tion : in about three hours more he wasfo
far recovered as to turn himfelf in the bed,
and in a day or two was perfectly well.
Our accounts further fay, that before the
usual methods of recovery were tried, the
body had every appearance of being lifelefs;
and many fuppoled that a total suspension
of the animal functions had taken place.
A letter from Cape Francois, dated June
19, contains the following paragraph—" It
is my opinion that this colony is infallibly
verging to total ruin and destruction : the
infurreftion f'preads daily, ar.d the troops
that have arrived are under no command,
and die very fall. Of 350 of Dillon's bri
gade that were Tent to Fort Dauphin, there
now remain only 30 able to carry arms, and
about 150 are dead.
The final abolition of the African slave
trade is determined on by the government
of Denmark, as far as concerns themselves.
To avoid the disadvantage, however, of too
udden a change in that trade, its final abo
lition is not to take place for ten years, that
is t.II Jan. 1, 1803: during which time eve
ry means is to be used to encourage breed
ing negroes in their colonies, and to eftablifli
such laws as may be of mutual benefit to
the blacks and whites. After the expira
t on of the time above mentioned, no Da
niihfubje£l will be permitted to carry on
the slave trade in any shape whatever.
" Upon a late occasion a worse than F,n
glifhelechon took place in the towns of Ot
fego and Milton. The number of freeholder?
was by some miraculous power increased
beyond credibility. Boys were converted
into men—the transient stranger acquired
a sudden residence, and the pauper became
in an instant a substantial freeholder. "A
fa£t transpired on the canvass, which is a
remarkable instance of the wicked arts prac
ticed to destroy the freedom of fuffrage. It
is this—Mr. V. R. candidate for the office
of Lieutenant-Governor, was one of the
infpeftors of the election in the town of
Water-Vliet, chiefly inhabited by his te
nants. In order to prevent them from vot
ing against Mr. Jay and himfelf, and to mark
out for vengeance those that had the auda
city to oppose his inclination, he procured
a peculiar kind of silk paper, with which the
ballots were formed, by which means, and
his official station as infpeftor, he was able
to teli immediately whether his unfortunate
tenants had voted their landlord for Lieu
tenant-Governor. N. York Journal■
The {ticklers for the perfection, infalli
bility, and immaculate purity of govern
ment (hould bear with some degree of pa
tience the opinions of those who are not so
entirely convinced as themselves, and ex
cuse thein if now and then they seem a little
disconcerted at observing what all but blind
men must observe, the farce, or rather the
tragedy, of certain European systems, en
deavoring, by some, to be afred over again
in this country : systems which have, in the
old world, bowed down the mars of the peo
ple into the dull, and will, mod: certainly be
attended with the fame effects in America,
by gradual advances, if the people are not
conltantly awake to the preservation of
their rights.
A squall visited New-York last Sunday
afternoon at nearly the fame time as here ;
near thirty persons were drowned in conse
quence thereof, men, women, and children
that were taking their pleasure on the river.
Repots were in circulation of many other
persons being loft, by the oversetting of
boats. Much damage, it is said, was also
done to houses and orchards. "Itis a me
lancholy reflexion (f:.ys a New-York paper)
to consider the number of persons drowned
every year in taking their pleasure on the
Sabbath."—Possibly with the person that
made this pious reflexion, Sunday is the
only busy day in the week.
In the months of April, May nnd June,
1792, there have been (Vippcd from the
port of Philadelphia, one hundred and fix
tv-one thousand, three hundred and forty
four barrels of flour ; and during the fame
period, fourteen hundred and eighteen bar
rels of middlings.
Capers have been thought only capable
of growing in warm climates. A tree is
now growing near New-Lordon, full of
that fruit; and equal in appearance to any
imported from France, Sicily, or any other
foreign country.
English papers as late as the 30th of April
(received by Captain Norton, from Liver
pool) mention that the declaration of war
agaiuft the King of Hungary and Bohemia,
was formally proclaimed throughout Paris,
on the 21ft, amidst the greatell concourse of
people ever seen on such an occasion—That
the Ruffian fleet would pass the found in a
few days, and rendezvous either in the
Downs or at Torbay ; but none of the Bri
tish ports wereexpefted to be open for iheir
reception—That the French commerce was
likely to futfer in the contest, as privateers
from various states would rendezvous at
Oflend, and failing under Brabant colours,
would pick up the merchant (hips of France
—but that great preparations were making
in France, for the immediate capture of
that place.
Every recent letter from Spain brings
some new instance of the growing spirit of
revolt in that country. It firfl manifeftcd
itfelf in Catalonia, where the hardy disposi
tion of the natives is proverbial. Catlille
and Arragon have followed the example,
and if the recita's which have reached us,
be well founded, Despotism and the Inqui
lition have both seen their day.
[Bojlonpaper. ]
The following Orange ndvertifcment ap
pears in the Middlrftx Gazette, printed at
Middletown, Connecticut. " Strayed from
a French gentleman in Middletcum, a red. fhort
tnil d Dog—he nnderjlands the French language.
Whoever will bring Ike dog, [hall receive one dollar
for their trouble, by Joseph Smith, ofjaid Middle
town, who has forfale French Brandy."
Captain Joseph Brandt, the celebrated
Indian Chief from Canada, departed a few
days since from this city on a journey to
westward. It is said his object is to endea
vor to conciliate themindsof thehoftile In
dians, and lay the foundation for a perma
nent peace between those tribes and the
United States.
The different conduct ofFrance and
America, at this time, with refpeft to the
general communication of knowledge is too
striking to pass unnoticed by the observing.
The one, encouraging newspapers and other
periodical publications to a degree of pro
fufion ; the latter, which owes so much to
the press, making evident encroachments
upon the general diflemination of literature
and that knowledge of the proceedings of
government, with which every freeman has
a right to be acquainted. While the state
papers can be kept in afquabble about cor
poration matters, and matters of little mo
ment to the great interests of the union ;
and while such impositions can be laid on
free papers printed at the feat of govern
ment, as in a great measure to prohibit
their general circulation, the public can
have little else to expect, than a continua
tion of that dark policy which to this day
keeps {hut the doors of the Senate, and has
(hewn an inclination 111 many inflances to
make the constitution speak a language to
which it is an utter stranger, for purpofej
not difficult to be developed.
By the arrival of a veflel at New-York
from Lisbon, we are informed, that Do£tor
Willis has not met with the fame success
in curing the lunacy of the queen cf Por
tugal as formerly attended his efforts upon
her good brother, the king of England.
The Doctor (fay these accounts) has de
clared the queen incurable, and had takea
his departure for London.The cultivation of the fujf*r cane in the
Ea!l-Tndies lu\s for some years been a
dopted, and is laid to be now carried on
with great success and to a great extent.
Sugars are become a common cargo, and
are {hipped, particularly from Calcutta, for
America, Oftcnd, France and England.
Soft sugars of the bed quality, limilar to
Weft-India clayed sugars, can be bought
in Calcutta at nine current rupees per hun
dred weight (including expences of pack
age, putting on board, &c.) which is
exactly equal to 37/6 Pennsylvania cur
rency, or five dollars.
A London paper of May I, contains
the following ridiculous paragraph—"The
French having infuited the Swiss Can
tons, will lose, in consequence, the onl)
good troops lemam'ng in their service."—
Yet such ridiculous paragraphs are con
ftandv c pied into Amsr can newspapers :
and believed by thousands, who never fuf
pe£t the molt barefaced faHfhood.
The whole country From this city tc
New-York is said to be marked with the
effects of the momentary, tho' violent,
on Sunday last A gentleman lateU
from Northampton county mentions its
ravages there to have been terrible, tear
ing up trees by the roots, and afiailing tht
largest' oaks with inllantane us deftruo
lion: its ii'it appearance (!:e adds) ir
coming westward over the ridges of tin
blue mountains was truly trtmen.ious
being a long projected angry looking
cloud, a id so impregnated with
darkness, that when it had prided to th<
eastward of the mountain, the a'mof
phere for some minutes was so overfprca
with gloom, that objeils ever so little re
mote, became nearly invisible.
By Englfh accounts from Botany-Bay
the convicts transported thither seem on!)
to have taken their passage to be hangec
on the other fide of the globe, num
bers being daily executed for mutiny.—
Governor Philips, they relate, has beei:
dangerously wounded in the neck by «
Ipear from one of the natives. From his
unenviable filiation one would think there
is no danger of his losing his next ektiion.
In the report of the committee appoint
ed by the English house of commons tc
enquire into the effect of the laws relative
to imprisonment for d-bt, an instance ii
produced ot a man having been confinet
forty-fWe years for a debt originally a
mounting only to fix pounds.
The inhabitants of Lanfingburg, in com
mittee, addreifed the honorable Chief Jus
tice Jay, who arrived in their town on the
30th ult.—Among other sentiments, thej
express their " regret and rc-fentmcmt ai
the evident prostitution of virtue and pa
"triotifm displayed by a majority of the can
vassing committee in favor of Governoi
Clinton." The Chief Justice returned c
polite anfvver, but from " motives of deli
cacy" declined any particular remarks witl
refpe£l to the late election. " Our citi
zens know the value ot their rights (fait
he) and it is hoped their efforts to maintaii
them will always be marked by temper anc
jtiwlleration, as well as by constancy ant
zeal."
A Quebec paper of May 14, fays—" Oi
Tueftlay the fir ft inft. the Court of King'
Bench was heltl in this city- —During th<
term three of ind Omeni were fount
against Jean Baptifte Caron, of St. Jofepl
De la Bauce. The one for a rape 011 hi
daughter Judith Caron. The other twi
■ were foraifaults with an intent to commi
rapes on his daughters, Jofetta and Gene
vieve Caron.
" He took his tria! on the bill for the rapi
on Judith and was convicted.
"Nothing could excetd the horror ex
cited in the b. eaft-i of a large audience, du
ring the trial. Three daughters brough
forward to convict a father of a crime a
which human nature revolts.—He is tin
firft instance .in tjie province, and for the
honor of humanity, we hope it will be the
last that will stain the records of the court.
Acalf wa lately driven through the towi
«f Worcester, in ?.tajlachufeits. oniy elevei
months and an .half old, which weighed fe
ven hundred and an half, gross weight.—
® Few are such calves in these degent rale days,
Yet lighter call es than this have had their praise.
F.xtraß of a. letter from New-York.
" The whole bulinefs of the late contest
ed election veils upon this question—Was
Richard R. Smith Sheriff of Otfego county
when the balPads were delivered at the
Secretary's office'—Upon this point en
tirely depends the rontroverfy. If he was
fheriffthen, the canvassers v. ere wrong in
reiefliog the votes ; but if it should be
proved that he was not, then all .will agree
that they afled with propriety. A number
' of individual - have uniformly endeavored
by every means in their power to bring
about a change in the office of chief magis
trate of the state. No artifice has been left
untried to bias the minds and prepoliefs the
Judgments of the electors againd an old
and (launch servant of the public. Num
bers are led away by idle dories ; one in
particular, which ought not to have met
with the lead credit from the moll credu
lous, " tiiat the governor had bought up
several millions of acres of land at an in
adequate price, and had in contemplation
to surrender up the (late into the hands o;
foreigners."
The following paragraph is communica
ted as authentic Some Ihort time since
ajuftice of the peace, residing on Lakt
Champlain, in the date of Vermont, iflu
cd a warrant againfl aperfon residing i;
said date, a few miles within the lines ai
present held by the Britilh ; return \va:
made 011 the Tame, judgment granted, ex
ecution illued, and a horse of the defend
ant's taken by the constable: The defend
ant thereupon made complaint to the offi
cer commanding the Britilh poll at Point
s-Fair, who sent an officer and party of men
and took the judice and conllable prison-
L-r , and two horses from the latter. The
prisoners they conduced to the said post,
.'• here a:'ter being detained a fliort time,
they were parolied by the commanding
officer, the justice for twelve days, the con
stable till called for. [Albany paper.
Both the profellions of law and physic
(fay a daily paper) are at present so muci
"doneove." in the United States, as tc
produce nearly the fame number of ufelef.
members of society as are produced by mo
na.ieries in European countries. To re
duce this number, in future, the belt me
thod will be to increase the price of a col
lege education. Mailers and profeffors
will thereby be not only better paid, bill
government relieved from conllant felici
tation for endowments for sinecures, 01
unneceflary profeflorjhips.
The governor of the Hate of Georgia ha:
ilfued Ins proclamation requiring the citi
zens of that (late, relident in the lowei
iidrift to elect on the 9th of July one re
arefentative in Gongreis, in the room oi
Anthony Wayne. —Gen. Jackson has abfo
lately declined an election.
Extrad of a letter from Kings on, Jamaica
May 30.
" A ferjeant in the 13th repiment of foot
low here, is to be (hoi on Tuesday morning
lext, for attempting to affalTinate one of his offi
:ers while on the parade. The lerjeanthad
or impertinence to his officers, been lentenced,
yy a garrison court-martial, to be reduced to tht
'anks, and rcceive 200 lalhes. The battalior
fas ordered out to fee the punilhment infli£ted.
ommanded by Ensign Hilton. Mr. H- order
:a h.m to Itiip, which, when he was preparing
:o do, he ran up to Ensign H. and flaljbtd him
wice ; and, in making the third, h.s arm wai
eized, and the knife fell from him."
Revolution FrAncAise.
AVIS.
LES FRANCAIS \f,wsdela li eerte ,et
outes au res perfo ines qui preiiiient pait a
a revolution effechiee en France, font pries
le fe trouver IVlardi prochain, le locourant,
idixheures du matin, a l'hoteld'Oellsrs,
jans Chefnut-dreet, pour defberer fur la
naniere de celebrer le jour memorable du
14 Juillet.
French Revolution.
SUGH natives of France and other per
sons, residents ofthiscitv, as, feeling an in
tered in the glorious cause of l'berty, wilh
to commemorate the memorable epoch ol
theedablifhment of the French conditution,
are requeftedto meet at Oeller's Hotel, on
Tuefdaynext, the 10th indant. at 10o'clock
in the morning, in order to agree upon a
plan for the celebration of the 14th of J lily.
*** The Printers of the different daily papers
in this city are requelled to insert the above.
J«iy 6.
Governmental Combinations, and Abuses.
[From Mr. Fame's Rights of Man. ]
AS a new fydem is now opening to the
view of the world, the European courts are
plotting to counteract it. Alliances, con
trary to all former fyllems, are agitating,
and a common intered of courts is forming
againd the common intered o! man. Thi.
combination drawsa line that rims through
out Europe, and presents a cause so entire
ly new, as to exclude all calculat.ons from
fonner circumllances. While despotism
warred with despotism, man had no inter
ed in die conted ; but in a cause that unites
the soldier with the citizen, and nation with
nation, the despotism of courts, though it
feels the danger, and meditates revenge, i
afraid to drike.
No qttedion has arisen within the record
of hidory that prefied with the importance
of the present. It is not whether this 01
that party (hall be in or out, or whig or to
ry, or high or low fljall prevail; but whe
ther man (hall inherit his rights, and uni
versal civilization take place ? Whether the
fruits of his labours (hali be enjoyed by him
felf, or consumed by the profligacy of go
vernments? Whether robbery ihall be ba
nilhed from courts, and wretchedness froir
countries ?
When, in countries that are called civil
ized, we fee age going to the workhouse
and youth to'the gallows, something mtifl
be wrong in the fyttem of government. It
would leem, by the exterior appearance o*
such countries, that all was happiness ; but
tli"relies hidden from the eye of common
observation, a mass of wretchedness that
has scarcely any other chance, than to ex
pire in poverty or infamy. Its entrance
into life is market! with the prefageofits
fate ; and until this is remedied, it is in vain
to punish.
Civil government does not consist in exe
cutions ; but in making such provision for
the ihftru&ion of youth, and the support of
age, as to exclude, as much as possible, prof
hu, cv from tfce one, and despair from the
other. Instead of this, the refourcesofa
country are lavilhed upon kinrs,upon courts,
upon hirelings, impostors, and prostitutes ;
and even the poor themselves, with all their
wants upon them, are compelled to support
the fraud that opprefles them.
Why is it, that scarcely any are executed
but the poor ? The fa£t is a proof, among
other things, of a wretchedness in their con
dition. Bred up without morals, and cast
upon the world without a profpeft, they
are the exposed facrifice of vice and legal
barbarity. The millions that are fuperflu
oufly wafted upon governments, are more
than fufficient to reform those evils, and to
benefit the condition of every man in a na
tion, not included within the purlieus of a
court.
The following Iketches on the present mi
serable condition of the poor in England
are extracted from the Journal of a sen
sible Quaker; who has lately travelled
through that country, and whose veraci
ty may be relied on.—
"A TRAVELLER through those po
pulous counties wherein the iron, and
other manufafloriesare eftabliihed. observ
ing the very great number of cottages on
the fides of commons which lie contiguous
to them, cannot admire at the riots occa
lioned by enclosing them. Many of their
inhabitants, perhaps their predecefiors for
ages back, have been accustomed to look
upon them as their own, exclusive of a
finail rent paid to the lord."; and to be at
once deprived of them, and be obliged to
seek an habitation they know not where,
and if procured to give an high rent, is
cruel. Small tenements, in many parifl es,
are now become scarce, divers families
live in one house, yea, a single room inuft
serve a large family ; so that the health of
the poor is endangered by so many of them
being crowded together ; and when putrid
disorders attack them, probably many lives
are loft by it. It is (hocking to humanity
for the dead corpse of an husband to lie 011
the fame bed (if it may be called a bed)
with a sick wife, and perhaps several chil
dren. Yet many such instances there are
in this rich and proud nation ; and x.vhere
is the humanity (it may jnftly bequi ricd)
jf the government, when they pass e nclo
ing laws, without prctefting the pojrcot
:agers ?"
" The estates are generally in the hands
jf farmers, and it is no uncommon thing
:or one farmer to rent from three to five
iiundied pounds per annum. As the plarifh
;s are mostly small, three or lour capital
farmers frequently occupy almost all the
?ftatesin one of them : and as by tl.e tenot
;>f their leases, they pay all parish ra'rs and
:axes, they conclude it their interest that a<
ew poor labourers as may be, dwell in theit
efpe&ive parishes ; and therefore, as forne
jf the labourers have told me, they have
ufi'ered as many small cot-houses, which
ivere on their estates, as they coul'J, to sal
own, rather than they Ihould be occupiec
jypoor families : always chufingthat theit
abourers Ihould live in an adjoining parish,
•ather than their own, giving for a reason.
hat if any misfortune Ihould happen tc
:hem, their estates would not be burthenec
with supporting them."
" In most parts of England, the people are
ibfolutely in a state of vallalage to their
•igh and mighty mafterv, for whom they la
jour for about fix /hillings pir week. I
jelieve the farmers, at least some of them,
ell corn to their labourers for what they
rail reasonable prices. They scarcely taste
1 bit of animal food, except bacon, which
hey buy of their masters for seven pence per
lound, and every other article'of life is pto-
Dot tionabiy dear. The best produce of the
..ountry is carried off to the towns, or ex
ported ; even their fuel, though in many
parts plenty, is dear. The milk, that r.e
:effary food for poor families, is chiefly
made into cheese: the poor have seldom
my. The best of the cheese is sent away,
and an inferior fort made for thein, and
fold at a high price. There fjemed to me
to be a visible depreflion in the countenan
ces of these poor creatures. I have seen
them approach their masters with all
the appearance of abject fear and flattery ;
but could never discover any thing like af
fection, or an attachment to their master's
person or property, further than outward
(how, the effect of slavish fear. In fhort,the
Engiifh peafantrv appeared to me almost
every where, to be in a very uncomfortable
state. >'—[The American reader will make his own
TeJlctUons-i
A new fort of an Allecory.
GOVERNMENTS and states have fome
thinginthem so analogous to a ship and
her crew, failing on the high seas, that from
the earliest ages, the refemMance has af
forded conflar.t occasion of allegorical com
parison. Horace, in his time, compared
the Roman empire to a veflel tofied in a
storm at a sea, and intimates it would have
been much better that Hie had continued
in the quiet port of republican] fm, than
have ventured out on the boisterous ele
ment of royalty.—l do not recolle£t, how
ever, that any author has considered the
comparison in the following point of view.
There is no (hip, nor veflel of any kind but
is more or less peftercd with leaks, which
are in some degree necefl'ary to keep the
(hip fweet; —neither is there any govern
ment but isconftantly infected with abuses
and encroachments of a nature more or less
considerable, and more or less dangerous to
the liberties of the people.—The leaks in a
ship, tho'ever so trifling, became fatal in a
tew days faiiing, if the pumps are not duly
jogged : if these be neglected'f'ie soon be
comes water-logged, and perilhes in the
next gale of wind with all her crew—go
vernments are liable to the fame danger, of
political foundering, if free printing prefles
(like the pump on Clipboard) are not work
ed more or less brilkly, according to the
degrees of political leakage. But whether
the fliip leaks or not is for the founding rod to
clifcover, and this is the business of the
people. July 6.
NEW-YORK, July 4.
As much pains has been taken 10 irnprclsan
opinion upon Ihe public mind, that the failure of
~ir' 1,1 'he election for governor, is entire
y afcribable to the lols of the Otfego votes, it
nnay not be improper to submit the following
latement to the public :
1 f all ihe votes had been canvsifled, it is highly
probable, that Gov. Clinton would have had a
larger majority rhan he now has : He loft 300
rotes in Orange and Richmond. From the belt
nlormation, two of the rejected counties, Clin
:on and Tioga, would have, at leaff, turned out
i majority of 10c in his favor.
Two of ihe rejefled towns in Ontario, Jeru
alcm and Genelec, which gave seventy votes,
ivere also supposed to affo:d him a majority oi 50.
The aggregate of which lofles would be 450
Mr. Jay, it is said, lofl 15 vote" in Ulfler county
40 do in WeficheOer.
25 do. in Reiifielaer.
350 at the highest, ac
oiding to Mr. Jacob
Ylorris's* calculation
n Otfego, but fay 4CO
Lofles 480 total of Mi. Jay.
To 450 ofMr. Clinton's
lofles, add 108 the majority by which
lefucceeded. 558 the amount
10m which (übtraft
Mr. Jay's lofles 480
78 majority in favor of
Mr. Clinton, if all the votes had been counted.
1 his flatement has been made upon the pre
umption, that all the votes, given, in favot of
Mr. Jay, were fair and bona fide—The contra
•y, however, is mod evidently the cafe. Ifiin
>ofition had not been pia£lifed, in Otfego, there
s no doubt Mr. Clinton would have had a
majority in the county of that name. That
own has bee fettled only within a few yeais,
ind upon the moll liberal calculation it cannot
produce more than 3CO votes, whereas by ini
quitous fraud it turned out nearly 6co.
The town of Harper's Field was almofl:
unanimously in favor of Mr. Clinton, and
it'furniihed two hundred ele&ors.
The town of Cherry Valley also contain
ed a considerable majority for him, which
added to Harper's Field, and a diver/ion in
his favor, in the town of Otfego, would
have given Mr. Jay, only about a.majorify of
joo, notwithstanding the three hundred dis
honest votes in the town last ment oned.
But after the town officers h 'd been re
gularly chosen, in Cherry Valley, Mr. Eli
Parsons (one of the leaders of the infur
ients, in Maflachufetts, and who is a warm
fayite, and the intimate friend of the virtu
wjudge Cooper) followed by a small fac
:ion, occasioned the choice of others, by
which mean ; there were two sets of town
officers, and inspectors of the election, in
hat place. The few fuft'rages taken at
Parson's poll, being favorable to Mr. Jay,
acre depolited in the box by Smith, the
pretended fherifF---Thofe taken at the le-
Jularpoll, beingforMr. Clinton, were put
on the out lide, by which fhameful partiali
ty, if Parson's ballots, and not the others,
had been canvafled, Mr. Jay would, per
haps, have had a majority of 4CO, in Otfego
county. If, however, the election had
been fairly managed, Votes.
Mr. Jay might have had a majority,
in the town of Otfego, of aco
Mr. Clinton, in Harpersfield and
Cherry Valley, 300
* Member of Ajp.ir.bly from that county.
PRICE of STOCKS.
6 Percents . . 21f\
3 Percents . J 'f\ 12/6
Deferred . . 12/10 if
Indents .... if
Final Sett. . . . 2Cf
1-2 Sliareß j nkU.S. 6f to 64 per cent advj
Whole Shares ditto; ej do. da.THE DISH OF TEA.
LIT Tome in grog place their delight,
O'er butled por'.er waste the night,
Or sip the rosy wine,
A dift of tea
More pleases me,
YielJs fofcer joys ,
Provokes less noise,
And breeds no base defrgn.
China's clime, this present broughf,
Enlivens every power of thought
Rigs many a (hip for sea,
Old maids it warms
Young widows, charms,
And miifes' men
Not one in ten
Cut courts them for their tea.
When throbbing pains afTai 1 my head
And dullness o'er my brain is spread,
The muse no longer kind,
A single sip
Dispels the hyp :
To chsfe the gloo m
Fresh spirits come
The flood-tide of the mind.—
When worn wirh toil, or vext with care
Let Susan but this draught prepare
And I forget my pain j
This magic bowl
Revives the foul,
With gentle sway
Bids care be gay,
Nor mounts to cioud the brain.
If learned men the truth would speak
They prize it far beyond their Greek,
Mor* fond attention pay :
No Hebrew root
So well can suit,
More quickly taught,
Lei's dearly bought,
And studied twice a day-
This leaf from distant regions sprung
Puts life into tbe female tongue
And aids the cause of love.
Such power has tea
O'er bond and frer,
Which priests admire,
Delights the Yqutre
And Galen's sons approve.
On Partial Attachments to Country.
TT has often been remarked by travellers who
_|_ have visited this country, that the Americans
a; j less national than any other people j which ob
servation is undoubtedly pretty generally true.
There leems to be a natural propenlity in almost
every human being to think more favorably of
himlelf thaa of his neighbour ; of ascribing to
himfelf virtues and qualities the pofiefiion of which
he is unwilling to allow to others j and ofdetraft
ing from them exc elleßcies in which he is norori
ouov deficient, and to which he can never hope
to aVpire by any fubfeqaent exertions. This in
clination predominates in the mind in proportion
a3 thecaufes of it are more or less powerful, more
or less numerous. It reaches not only to indivi
duals ana private society, but extends its influence
to dates and nations. Thus we frequently fee
a foreigner so ltrongly prejudiced i n favour of his
country, from which perhaps he was transported
for crmes that are a disgrace to humanity, redden
with anger at a supposed afperfton against his coun
trymen, 6y whom he had been treated with the
greatest contempt, which he very justly merited.
That the Americans are exempt" from national
prejudice is far from being the truth. The inha
bitants of al mo ft cvei y '.late in America are diftin
guithe l by some particularities, either ot speech
or behavior, peculiar to thcmielves. The mofl
apparent national diftin&ions appear to exist be
tween the natives of the New England states and
the inhabitants of all the others, from their fre
quently stigmatizing each other with the satirical
appellations of Cracker, Yankee, Lovers of Pork
and Molalfes.* bad Pror.ouncers of their own
tongue, and many other l'uch like elegant epi
thets. si Particular instances ought not tojuf
t'-fy general conclusions." Therefore that beha
viour which chara&erizes a few in any (late ought
not to be indiscriminately attributed to all, noi
stamp their national character. To judge of a
whole people by a few individuals argues want ol
experience, an unacquaintance with men and
manners, and a mind clouded with prejudice and
absorbed in ignorance. "There are good as well as
bad in all societies." If a pariallel were drawn
between the northern and southern states, by bal
ancing the advantages and disadvantages on both
fides with regard to the use or cant words and
phrases, the scale might preponderate in favour
of the former, for there the greatest attention it
paid to learning, which is conspicuous from the
number and diversity of excellent literary instituti
ons established in every part.
The conversation of many of mv fellow citizens
at certain seasons especially, turns entirely on
the meetings and exploits (past, present, or tc
come) of the sons of St. Patrick, St. Andrew, or
St. George. I could wifli to observe to those
who have been born in countries under the sup
posed patronage of atfy of the a foresaid right
worfliipful personages, but have left them to
take their final residence in America, that it
would better become them to acknowledge their
new father St. Tammany, who is a father to
them bv the fame rule that "a friend in need
is a friend indeed," and who is so far from the
ftrittnefs of their foimer patrons that he has ne
ver attempted to enforce any other rule than
that «» every man /hall do as he pleafes/' But,
if there is any excuse for the natives of Europe,
what are we to think of those who* as well as
their fathers and grandfathers before them, were
born in this country, and yet have searched their
pedigrees to find out which of the European
* Which is derived from the cvjlcm, common in
Neiu Englands oj curing fork with molajfcs, not
from eating them together
faints they belong to ! there is Christopher Bog
herry, a pretty equal mixture of German and
rifh, but perceiving that the Germans seldom
rolic for their faint, and reconciling his Irifli
lame, he, in the dialedt of his mother's family
wears that he will join the sons of St. Patrick,
for he has been drunk with t jem more as two
:imes areaty. And my neighbour Jonathan
Gregor, descended on b>th fides from the fir it
fcttlera of New England, is determined to join
HIC Sons of St. Andrew j for, "odds fvamp it,
as sure as snakes, it mu(fc be tarnation ciever
fun though the mixture in honest Jonathan's
blood is such as would puzzle a good Jockey,
a th all his knowledge of quarters, eighths, fix
tcenths, and thirty seconds, \o ascertain what
proportion of it is Scottilh. But enough—i he
countries of Europe were alj peopled by emigrants,
and as wc are now a nation , let us not be aflia
med of our name, nor the station we have ta
ken—"Where liberty is there ihould be our coun
try but if, unwilling to acknowledge the coun
try that gives us bread, we ought not, in purluit
of our origin, to stop in Europe but proceed to
Asia, whence we are descended from a pair who
might have continued in the enjoyment of a pa
t'adife, had t icy known how to prize i~, when
there. Georgia Gazette.
Prices Current at Philadelphia.
[Dollars to 100 cents.
ASHES Pot per ton 90 Dols. to too
Aflies Pearl 137 — — 140.
Bacon si tches per lb. 7 cents.
Bacon flioulJers — 6 do.
Bees wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27.
Brandy, Cuniac, pergl. 1 dol. 20 c k to 1 d. 33 c*
Brandy, c&mrnon, 1 dol. 26 c.
Butter, in kegs, per lb. 9 c. to 10.
Coals, per bu/hel, 20 c. to 22
Coffee, per lb. iS to 20 c.
Cotton, per lb. 26 c. to 40
Flax, per lb. 11 to 12 c.
Flour, fuperiine, per barrel, 5 Dol. 13 C.
Common, 4 dols. 80 c.
Burr middlings, best, per brl. 4 Dol. 67 C.
Meal Indian 2 dols. 55 c.
Rye 2 dols. 67 c.
Ship ftufif, per cwt, 1 dol. id. 33c.
Gin, Holland, per cafe, 4 dols. 67 c.
Ginseng per lb. 20 c. to 24
Grain, barley, per bushel, 90 c.
best {helled, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per bulhel, 40 c.
Indian corn, 41 c. Qats26c.pr. bufli.
Rye 54, Wheat 93 to 95 c.
Ham? r per lb. 8 c. t9 9
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67c.
.American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, j aw, per lb. 9 c. to 11
Indigo, Carolina, per lb. 60 c. to 1 dol.
Iron, bar, per ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
Cali ingSj per cwt. 3 dols. 47 c.
Nai.i-rods per ten 96 dols.
Pig, per ton, 24 duls. to 26 dolt* 67 c.
Sheet, per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
Lard, he gs, per lb. 9 c. to 10
Lead, i.i bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
In pigr, 5 dols. 33 c. to 5 dols. 67 f.
K cd, 6 dols. 40 c. to 0 dols. 67 c.
\/hite, 10 dols. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Myrtle wax per lb. iSc.
Molafles, per gal. 44 c. to 50
Nutmegs, per lb. 7 to 8 dollars
Oil, Lit.feed, per gallon, 65 to 67 c,
Pepper, per lb. 40 c. to 50 c.
Pimento, 16 c.
Porter, London, per dozen, I dol. 60 c.
American, do. 1 d. 4 c. to 1 d. 60 c.
Pitch, \ er barrel, 1 dol. 73 c. to 2 dols.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 11 dols to 11 d 67c.
]Lower County, do. 10 dols.
Carolina, do. 9 dols.
Rice, pfcr 100 lb. 2 dols. 50 c. to 2 dol. 67 c.
Rosin, per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 d 015.67 c.
Rum, Antigua, per gallon, 1 dol. 11 c.
Bartadoes, do. do. 87 c.
New-England, &c. 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. iS c. to id. 22 c.
Windward Island, 93c. to id.
Salt, (Allum) per bulhel, 24 to 27 c.
Cadiz, 23 to 24 c.
Lisbon, 25 to 27 c.
Liverpool, 29 c.
Skins, Deer., in hair, per lb. 20 to 30 e.
Red, ditto, ■ 26 to 33 c.
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
Sugar, Havauna, white, per lb. 17 to iS c.
Brown, per lb. 15 c.
Muscovado, per cwt. 14 d. to 16 d. 67 c.
Lump, per lb. 24 c.
Loaf, lingle refiaed, 26 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 c.
Tallow, refine j, per lb. 9 c.
Tar, New-Jersey, 24 gal. to the brl. 1 dol.
Carolina., 32 gal. 1 dol. 33 c. to 1 dol. 67 c.
Tea, Hyson, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 c.
Hyson fk'.ii, 53 c. to 67 n,
50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 30 c. to 33
Tobacco, James River, best. per cwt. 3 dols. 60
ta 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferioi,2 dols. 67 c. to 3 dols.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 2 dols. 50 c. to 3 dol
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl, 33 c. to 8 d
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, 2 dols. 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 dols. 2j c.
Carolina, new, 2 ools. 7 c. to 3 dols.
Carolina, old, 2 dols. 7 c. to 3 del
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 dol. 67 c. to 2 dols.
Wine, Madeira, per pipe, 106 dl. 67 c. to 200 dl.
Litbon, 96 dols. to icc
Teneriffe, per gal. 51 c. to 60
Fayal, * 44 c. 49
Port, per pipe, 106 duls. 67c. to 120 d.
Sherry, per gal. 90 c. to jd. 20c.
-X- -X- Three handsome Edit ons of the Laws oj
the United Statesforfate at this office (No 209 Mar
ket Street" in folio and Octavo, either fill or halj
bound■ —N D The Laws of thelajl Sr/fion, in Oc
tavo only, may be had separate, price three eighths
of a dollar.
BOOKS,
Printed and fold by
MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. American Mufeupi, from its commencement
in "January 1707, to December 1791, in ten vols.
Price, neatly bound and lettered, fix teen dollars.
This work, 1 obicb is r.ow conducted on an im
proved plan, containing the befi picces publijlicdf jr
and a gain (I the proceedings of government, will be
found to contain at leajl as great a variety of po/;-
tical, agricultural, andmijcellancjus ejfays, as any
ever puohjhed in America. Perhaps in no one wcrk
are Jo many valuable documents rejpefting the bijio
ry of this country, coll*fted together. His excel
lency the Prejident of- the United States, has de
clared of it 9 that li a more ufeful literary plan
ii4S never been undertaken in America, nor one
more delerving of public encouragement." The
fubjeription is two dollars and a half per annum.
Gentlemen in the country who wiflj to be Jupplied
•U)itb this ivorky are requejtcd to give commijjion to
friends in the city to Jubjcribe Jor and receive it.
2. Ladies* Pocket Library—containing :— Mijs
More's Efj'ays j Gregory's Legacy j Lady Pen
nington's advice \ Marchionejs of Lambert's ad
vice j Swift's letter to a new'ly married ladj j
Mrs. Chapcne on command of temper j Mere's fa
bles for the ladies Price 6/6.
3. Smith's History of New-York.f"om itsfrfl
lettlement to the year 1732. To which is annexed,
1 description of the country, with a Jbort account
f the inhabitants, their religious and politicalJiate,
jnd the conflitution of the courts of jujiice—Price
1 dollar dn.i a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
.ie, 1.1.d. profefjor of moral pbilojcpby and logic
n the Marijchal College, Aberdeen—Price three
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Critical Re
viewers (vol. 69. p. bi% J fay :" We have seen
nothing on tbefe Jubjefts more plain, mere perjpicu
)us, or more genera ly ufeful
5. Beauties of Poetry, Brtfijb and American,
: ontainingjeleft productions of the moji eminent Bri
yifh and American poets. Price four fifths of a dol.
6. Blair's Sermons, containing the whole of the
three volumes of the British edition, in two. Price
rwo dollars.
7. Neckar*s Treatije on the importance nf reli
gious opinions, Price four fifths of a dollar.
S. Examination of the objervations of Lord Shef
field's on American Commerce. Price, on very fine
baper, five eighths of a dollar.
9. The Conjiitutions of the fevcral United States,
zvtth the federal Constitution, &c. Price five
tigb'bs of a dollar.
10 M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition in
I 2mo. Price three eighths of a dollar.
11. American J eft B >ok, in two parts, with
'wo very neat engravings. Price bound, three
fifths of a dollar.
12. Garden of the Soul, by Bifoop Chalenor.
Price, bound plain, half a dollar, in calf and let
tred three quartt-s of a dollar, plain \ -ldol.
13. The Doucy Tr (inflation cf the vulgate B.
hie, in quarto. Price, e 'egantly bound and lettered,
tfjjl —plain, fix. dol!a rs ■
Said Caiey has for sale, a large assortment oj
books, European as well as American editions,
which he will di/pof* of on the mofl reajcnab'.e terms.
Country gentlemen, who favor him with commands.
may depend upon being Jupplied in the mofl fatisfac
tory manner. A iberal allowance to fucb as pur
chafe quantities for public libraries, or to fell again.
May 17. 6m.la.vv.
A FARM FOR SALE.
Jo be fold cheap for cash, a Farm Jituated on the
Banks, and on the north fide of tie river Ran
ran in the Jiate of New-J e>fey j eight miles from the
ity of New-Brunjwic, and one from the town of
Bound Brook, containing 191 acres, and 40 acres
about a mile dijiant apportioned to it for woodland:
>n this farm has lately been erected a neat and
convenient house 28 by 34 feet neatly finifhtd,
built on a cellar the dimensions oj the House, with
a kitchen forming awing 24 by 18 feet completed :
50 acres of it being meadow renders this place tru
'y valuable j the healthy airy and pleafar.t situation
<nakes it an agreeable Jeat for a gentleman •* the
r.eadow and fertility of the foil, an object so r th.
farmer, its being fur rounded by the tnojl wealthy
ind opulent farmers in the Jiate, a very eligible
}and for ajlore. The ride to and from Bruvfwic,
in either fide of the river, is delightful : for the
brice apply to the editor of the National Gazette.
6w law.
T G THE PUBLIC.
T'HE Subscriber has it in contemplation soon 1*
decline his prcjent bufntjs—and having on
hand a considerable quantity effuperfne second and
:lajiic cloths, together with a variety of other arti
cles in his way, propofei to Jell them at the following
reduced prices- VIZ.
Eejl Superfine navy bluz 345,
Ditto. ditto. Scarlet 365.
Common coloursfuperfne 32*.
Elajlic Jlripes 9s.
London buff and white cajfimers 15/6.
Ditto, coloured do. 15 s.
York/hire do. do. 13J6.
Striped toilenets 145.
Rattinets 33.
Striped Nankeens 3^4.
A variety of waificoatjhapes proportionably low,
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London btjlfilk boje, from 22J6 to 24 s.
The above goods have been mofl ly imported from
l>ne of the frj} Mercantile houses m Lor.don, and
are of an equal quality to any imported into Ameri
ca j they will be fold per piece or Jmaller quantity
as may beji Juit thepurcbajers } by tb"publics moji
bumbleJcrvant, JOHN SHEPHERD.
No. 3 South Fourth-Jlreet.
Any person disposed to purchase the whole
of the above stock, may also have on reasonable
terms his prefent l dwelling house, together with
the store, a more eligible situation for business in
|lhe tailor's line is not to be found in this city.
The advantage of this business being so well elta
biiflied by the proprietor will be very great, and
fyqm well known fa£ts, needs no comment,
A lease of fix years may be liad of the house.
May 14, 2 £w. tf.
PROPOS ALS
For Printing by Subscription,
PUBLIC VE PORTS
FROM THE
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
O V THE
Government of the United States
CONGRESS,
Commencing with the present Government, and end
ing with the close of the SeJ/ion of May 1792.
THIS work is intended to be printed in one
volume o&avo, estimated to contain between five
and fix hundred pages, and will be delivered to
lublcribers in boards at One Dollar and a halt.
A complete colleßion of the Reports into a
convenient and portable volume has been fug
gefied to the publifliers by fcveral Members of
Congress and other gentlemen, and they are now
determined to proceed 011 with the work, provi
ded a competent number of fubferibers appear
to patronize the undertaking.
Subscriptions are received by CHILDS and
SWAINE, the publishers, No. 209, Market
street, Philadelphia, and by the principal Book •
fellers in the United States.
May 24.
THIS DAT ARE PUBLISHED,
[111 Oftavo —Price 2/9. %
THE
L AW S of the United States,
Pafll'd at the
Firfl Sefiion of the Second Congress.
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY.
To which are added the Ratifications of the
Amendments to the Constitution, by the several
ratifying States; the Armifiice between the Uni
ted States and Great-Britain ; and the Treaty of
Peace and Friendlhip with the Checokees, which,
ivith those in the other o£tavo volume completes
ill the exilling treaties.
Philadelphia, printedby CHILDS £?SWAINE,
Printers of the Laws of the United States, and
fold by them, at their office, No. 209, Market-
Street ; also by the principal Bcokfellcrs in the
city.
The Laws are sewed in blue paper, and
ire intended to be bound up with those of the
next session, so as to make one volume, com
arifing all the Laws pafied by the Second Con
uefs, when a complete Index will be added for
30th sessions.
The LA WS of the
Three Seflions of the First Congress,
With a complete Index, in one volume ottavo,
may be had as above.
Philadelphia, May 17th, 1792.
This day is publifhcd,
And to be fold at No. 54, S. Second-ftreei
By ROBERT CAMPBELL,
And BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147. Market-street,
f Price tenJhiihngs, ne itly bound]
The New Art of Cookery,
According to the present pra&ice ;
Being a complete Guide to ali Housekeepers,
011 a plan entirely new—
Confining of thirty,eight Chapters.
—Containing—
PROPER dlre&ions for marketing, and truf
fmg of poultry ; The making soups and
broths ; Drefling ail forts of fi(h ; Sauces for eve
ry occasion ; Boiling and roasting ; Baking, broil
ing and frying ; Stews and hashes ; Made difiics
of every fort ; Ragous and fricafees ; Dire&ions
for drefling all forts of roots and vegetables; All
forts of aumlets and eggs; Puddings, pies, tarte,
&c; Pancakes and fritters; Cheefccakes & Cow
ards; Blancmange, jellies, and syllabubs ; Direc
tions for the sick ; Preserving, syrups, and con
lerves ; Drying and candying; All for tsof cakesj
Hogs puddings, sausages, Szz ; Potting, and little
colu dilhes ; The art of carving ; Collaring, sal
ting, and foufin'g ; pickling ; To keep garden
vegetables, See ; Made Wines; Cordial Waters;
Brewing; Englilh and French bread, &c,——
By RICHARD BRIGGS Many years Cook
at the Globe-Tavern, Fleet-street, the white-Hart
Tavern, Holborn, and now at the Temple C
house, London.
HOWELL's LARGE
MAP of PENNSYLVANIA.
THIS work isengfaved in the tnoft elegant
style, and will be ready for delivery early
this rummer. It is 63 inches long arid 36 in
ches wide, and for the molt part very full of
work (except some small places of which mate
rials were not to be had) and wholly com
piled rrom aQual rurveys, acquired at great ex
pence of money, and more than four yeais
labour, and from its manifeft public utility,
the Legislature has been pleased to grant the
proprietor the Turn of three hundred pounds.
This map exhibits the County and Townfliip
Divisions, and those of the Surveyors Difiri&s
in the New-Purchase, Donation and Deprech
tion Lands; the waters, portages, and the Ca
nal, mountains and valleys, roads, towns, &c,
He thanks the Public for their very liberal
fubfeription, and informs them that it is yetkepe
open. He fells his SMALL MAPS, on can
vass, folded and cas'd for pocket carriage, at
10/6, and plain at 8/4.
READING HOWELL
No. 83, North Fifth-flreet.
June 11. law. 6w.
PRINTED BY
C PI I L D S aii D S W A I N E,
AT THEIR OFFICE, NO. log, HIGH-STREKT
NEAR FIFTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA.