I i v I\ :
Vol. I.
authentic.
SECOND CONGRESS
UNITED STATES.
At the firft Session, begun and held a the city ol
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennfylvams
on Monday the twenty-fourth of October, ont
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
.An ACT for the relief of Widows, Or
phans, Invalids, and other persons.
BE it enaßed by the Senate and Houf
of Representatives of the United States
of America, in Congress ajfembled, 1 hai
the Comptroller of the Treasury adjul,
the claims of the widows and Orphan:
refpeaively, as the cafe may be, of the
late Colonel Owen Roberts, captair
William White, lieutenant colonel
Bernard Elliott, major Samuel \\ ife
major Benjamin Huger, lieutehani
John Bush, and major Charles Mott.
deceased, all of whom were killed 01
died in the service of the United States,
for the seven years half-pay stipulated
by the resolve of Congress of the twen
ty-fourth day of August, one thousand
seven hundred and eighty ; and thai
the Register of the Treasury do illue
his certificates accordingly.
And be it further enacted, 'lhat the
Secretary of the department of war be.
and he hereby is required to place on
the invalid lift, Timothy Mix, difablcd
in the late wai, by the loss of his right
hand, while in the service of the Uni
ted States, at the rate of five dollars per
month, to commence on the fourth day
of February one thousand leven hun
dred and eighty-three. 1 !ut the said
Secretary place on the invalid lift, Abel
- Tarncy, M«uiCCV, drfsWrd—ui
the lervice of the United States, at the
rate of one dollar per month, to com
mence on the firft day of January, one
thousand seven hundred and eighty-
And be it further enaßed, That the
arrears of the said pensions be paid as
the laws direst in fimiiar cases.
And be it further enaßed, That the
Comptroller of the Treasury be, and he
hereby is required to adjust the accounts
of Joseph Pannila lieutenant-colonel in
the service of the United States, as a
deranged efficer upon the principles ol
the ast of the late Congress, of the third
ofOftober one thousand seven hundred
and eighty, and to allow him the ulual
commutation of the half-pay for lifeor
a lieutenant-colonel, and that the Re
gister of the Treasury be, and he here
by is required to grant a certificate foi
the amount of the balance due to him.
That the Comptroller adjust the ac
count of the late brigadier general De
Haas, admitting to the credit of the laia
account, such sums as by evidence shall
appear to have been advanced for the
public service, and which have been
charged by the United States to the ol
ficers who have received the lame for
the public service, and that the said Re
gister do grant a certificate for the bal
ance due on such settlement. 1 hat
the said comptroller adjust the account
of Thomas M'lntire, a captain in the
service of the United States, during the
late war, and allow him the ulual com
mutation of the half pay for life of a
captain, and that the said Register grant
* a certificate for the amount thereof ac
cordingly.
And. be it further enacted, That the
Comptroller of the Treasury be, and he
hereby is required to adjust the ac
count of Francis Suzor Dcbevere, a
mate in the service of the U
nited States during the late war, and
who remained in captivity to the end
thereof, and that the Register of the
Treasury be, and he hereby is required
to grant a certificate for the amount
which shall be found due for the ser
vices of the said Francis Suzor Debe
▼ere. That the said Comptroller ad
just the account of Robert King, as s
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhed. Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
THURSDAY, April 5, 1792.
lieutenant, deranged upon the prin
ciples of the ast of the late Congrels.
passed the twenty-fourth day of No
vember, one thousand seven hundred
dnd seventy-eight, and that the fa d Re
gifler grant a certificate accordingly.
That the Comptroller adjust the ac
count of Lemuel Sherman, as a failing
ma fterof a gallev on Lake Champlain,
and as luch taken vrifoner;pnd that the
laid Register grant a certificate accord
ingly.
And be it further enacted, That
there be granted to Nicholas Ferdinand
Weflfall, who left the British service
and joined the army of the United
States, during the late war, one hundred
acres of unappropriated land in the weft
em territory of the United States, Iree
of all charges, and alio the sum of three
hundred and thirty-fix dollars, out of
any money appropriated to the contin
gent charges of government.
Jonathan Trembull, Speaker of the
HouJ'e of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United Stales, and President
of the Senate.
Approved, March the twenty-seventh 179-
G. Washington, President of th(.
United States.
An ACT providing for the settlement of the
Claims of Perf oils under particular cir
cumflances barred by the limitations here
tofore cflablificd.
BE it enatted by the Senate and Hovfe of
Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress ajfcmbled, I hat the
operation of the resolutions of the late
Congress of the United States, patted on
the second day of November, one thou
fovea h mdrcd and eighty-five, and
the twenty-third day of July, one thou
sand seven hundred and eighty-seven,
lo far as they have barred, or may be
construed to bar the claims of any of
ficer, soldier, artificer, tailor, or marine
of the late army or navy of the United
States, for personal services rendered to
the United States, in the military or na
val department, shall from and after the
palling of this ast, be suspended, for and
during the term of two years. And
that every such officer, soldier, artificer,
sailor and marine having claims for ser
vices rendered to the United States, in
the military or naval departments, who
shall exhibit the fame, for liquidation,
»t the l rcafury of the United States, at
my time during the said term of two
/ears, shall be entitled to an adjustment,
md allowance thereof on the fame prin
ziples, as if the fame had been exhibit
;d, within the term prescribed by the
iforefaid resolutions of Congress: Pro
vided., That nothing herein shall be con
strued to extend to claims for rations or
,'ubfiftance money.
And be it further enacted, That no ba
lances hereafter to be certified, as due
from the United States, shall be regifter
:d in any other name, than that of the
original claimant, or of his heirs, exe
cutors or administrators ; and luch ba
ances shall be transferable only at the
Treafurv, by virtue of powers actually
ixecutcd after such registry, exprefling
ihe sum to be transferred, and in purfu
ince of such general rules, as have been,
or shall be prescribed for that purpose.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of the
Houft of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United States, and President
of the Senate.
Approved, March the twenty-seventh, 1792
G. Washington, President of the
United States.
An ACT supplemental to the AEI for mah -
ing farther and more effectual Provifon
for the proteSion if the Frontiers of tht
United States.
BE it ena&ed by the Senate and House oj
Representatives <f the United States oj
America in Congress ajfcmbled, That il
shall be lawful for the President of the
Uni.'-'d States by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate to appoint
such number of Brigadier-Generals as
may be conducive to the good of the
public service. Provided the whole
number appointed) or to be appointed,
shall not exceed foiir.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of the
House oj RepreJ'cntatives.
JOHN Adams, Vice-Prejidcnt of the
United. States, and Prfident
of the Senate
Approved, Much the twenty-eighth, 1792.
G. Washington, Prefidait oj the
United States.
\jVe are requcjled to xnftrt, from the Inde
pendent Gazetteer, the following piece,
addrefftd to the YEOMANRY of the
United Statcs.~\
176kI 76k a government to interfere in the
occupations, or in the private ac
tion.'. of citizens, where such actions are
not injurious to the community, is not
only unjust and impolitic, but is highly
dangerous to the liberties of the peo
ple. All partial regulations tend to
crease separate interests in focicty, and
therefore occasion jealousy and diffenti
on among citizens, whose true interest
con fills in being united. On this
fubje£t the sentiments of the great bo
dy of the people in the United States
were clearly expressed during the ardu
ous contest to establish their liberties :
The constitutions of the several Hates,
formed during that period of public
animation and attention, manifeft the
strongest disapprobation of monopolies
and > exclusive privileges. Although
these just and honorable sentiments
hava been lately fuppretled by the in
tluei- o of ambition and avarice, yet
they are not extinct, but will re-apye*r
with an additional lustre, reflc&ed from
the glorious revolution of France.
The Americans will adopt the poli
tical principles of that enlightened peo
ple, and like them will consider, that
the prosperity and happiness of citizens
conjhtutcs the realJlrengtkoj nations. If,
under a vague undefined idea of sup
porting the general welfare, Congress
is permitted to enact partial laws in fa
vor of a few wealthy individuals, and
to grant them excluhve privileges in any
occupation in which their unbounded
avarice may prompt them to engage,
such regulations will inevitably destroy
the infant matiufaftures of our country,
and will conlign the uletul an d relpeftu
ble citizens personally engaged in them
to contempt and ruin. All confidcnce
of procuring an honorable support from
any mechanic or manufa&uring employ
being at an end, no citizen will think of
giving seven years of the prime of his
life to acquire the knowledge of any
profefTion in which he may be fupplant
sd by a junto of monied men, under the
immediate patronage and protetlion of
joveinment. Whatever may be the
plauiible pretext of such inflitutions.
they always promote the opprelfive and
injurious drudgery of the manufaftur
srs, and the indolent luxury of the
principals.
Men educated in a profefuorl which
exists by the indiscriminate defcnce of
right and wrong, will naturally support
their opinions with all the art and so
phistry of acute logicians ; but rea
soning in proportion as it extends and
becomes complicated, does not owe
its triumph always to truth ; mental
fatigue, or implicit faith, frequently
Succeeds in procuring it admirers. A
variety of stratagems may be made use
of to deceive the people, but a miniftct
who knows nothing more, will nevei
lay the foundation of a great empire ;
the fabric raised by his duplicity and ex
travagance, mud fall and bury its sup
porters in its ruins.
The fucccfs of American manufac
tures will not depend on financial cal
culations, or legislative interference,
but on the patronage and encouragemeni
Numb. 46.
they may receive from patriotic citi-
I ens. It is certain that the powerful
Imd encreafing mercantile intcreft, lias
always suggested doubts refpe6ting the
propriety of giving encouragement to
American artilts and manufacturers.
As agents, it is the immediate interelk
of the merchants that every raw materi
al, and every manufactured article,
should pass through their hands : But
no real citizen ever had a doubt of the
expediency of every independent com
monwealth being as much as polTiblc
supplied within itfelf with all things
necefl'ary or ufeful in common life. A
chain does not derive its strength and
utility from being composed of a few
heavy links, and the remainder weak
and ill conditioned, but from every link
being as much as poflible of equal pow
er. The fame takes place in civil soci
ety ; a state is rendered more refpefta
ble and powerful by the prolperity of
all its citizens, than by the over-grown
wealth of the few. By giving ufeful
Employment and comfortable support to
the weakest and moll miserable fellow- ■ ,
citizen, you promote your own confe-'.>
quence and fafety ; therefore, duty as
well as intsreft oblige the members of
the fame society to aflift each other.
Those who use foreign manufactures, in
preference to such as may be procured
in their own country, receive protecti
on from the government, of which they
are members, without complying with
their duty in supporting its citizens—
An injustice that in its increase must be
theruiuofany Commonwealth. This
principle, however, should be carried
no further than is confident with the
real proiperity of the state, as conned
sd with-the fwU employment, the hap
piness and independence of all its citi
zens.
We ought not to desire the cftablifh
ment of any kind of manufacture in our
country, which cannot support itfelf,
without government granting to its a-*
gents, bounties, premiums, and a vari
ety of exclusive privileges, in violation
of the rights of the people,
A FARMER.
March 15, 1792.
PHILADELPHIA.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Saturday, March 31.
Abillin addition to the ast providing
For the government of the territory,
north-welt of the river Ohio, was
twice read, and made the order of the
day for Wednesday next.
Mr. Vining, from the committee
appointed, reported a " bill, to compen
sate the corporation of Trustees of the
public grammar school and academy o?
Wilmington in the state of Delaware;"
which was twice read, and made the
order of the day for Tuesday next.
A resolution, for indemnifying the
state of Maryland for a certain sum of
money advanced to discharge a con
tract made by N. Ri Moore for the pur
chase of a number of horses for the ser
vice of the United States during ths
late war,—-was referred to a select com
mittee.
The amendments, proposed by the
Senate, to the Militia bill, were read,
and the bill, together with the amend
inents, ordered to be printed for the
consideration of the House.
Mr. Speaker laid before the House a
memorial from the Legislature of Mas
sachusetts—and Mr. W. Smith a copy
of inftruftions from that of South-Ca
rolina to their Delegates in both Houl
es of Congress, refpefting a further as
sumption of the debts of those ftates—>
Referred to the committee of the whole,,
on the public debt.The House again resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole, on the report of
the Secretary of the Treasury on the public
debt—Mr. Seney in the chair.
The sth, 6th and 7th of Mr. Fitzfimon's
resolutions were agreed to, as follows:
" Refelved, That a subscription for a far
ther loan in the debts of the individual
states, be opened and continued to the firll
day of next, not to exceed in the
whole millions of dollars, in the
proportions following, that is to fay :
In the debt of New-Hampshire,
Massachusetts,
Rhode-Island,
Conne£licut,
New-York,
New-Jersey,
Maryland,
Virginia,
North-Carolina,
South-Carolina,
Georgia,
Provided, That the interest on such loar
shall be payable before the — day of —— :
And previded, that when the sum, to be as
sumed for any state, shall not be fubfcribec
by the holders of any of the evidences 11
which the fame is made receivable, the state
shall not be entitled to receive interest or
the residue."
"That the fubferiptions to the aforefaic
loans in state debt, be payable in such cer
tificates, bills, notes, and evidences of debi
whatsoever, as shall have been ifTued b>
the refpeftive states, and by the fevera
commillkmers of loans of the United State?
on account of the excefTes of the sums sub
scribed in certain states beyond the sum:
heretofore afiumed for such states. Pro
vided, That no such certificates, bills, notes
or evidences of debts of the refpeftive
'states shall be receivable upon the said loan
■which, from the tenor thereof, from an)
public record, a£f or document, shall appeal
or can be ascertained to have been ifTuec
for purposes irrelative to compenfatior
and expenditures for services or fupplie:
towards the prosecution of the late war
and the defence of the United States, or ol
some part thereof during the fame ; bui
this shall not be construed to exclude ail)
certificate, bill, note, or evidence of deb
which shall have been iflueel in lieu or or
account of any other certificate, bill, note
or evidence of debt which was itfelf ifTued
in relation to such compensations and ex
penditures."
" That the debt due to certain foreigr
officers, the interest whereon is payable ai
the house of Le Grand, in Paris, be dischar
ged out of any monies obtained on loan, b)
the President of the United States, in vir
tue of the act making provision for tlu
public debt; —which may now be unappro
priated.''
The eighth resolution was the fubjeft oi
a lengthy debate, which continued to the
usual hour of adjournment, when the com
mittee rose, reported progress, and afkec
leave to fit again.
Monday, April 2.
The report of a feleci committee 011 the
"Abftraft (received from the Secretary o:
the Treasury) of the returns of the duties 01
imports and tonnage, and the amount oi
the exports of the U. States to foreigr
countries,"being taken up,—Ordered thai
the said abstract be printed ; —and also.
that the Secretary of the Treasury be di
rected to report to the House, during the
course of the present fellion, the quantity
and value of the exports from each state.
A meflage was delivered by Mr. Secreta
ry Lear, informing the House, that the
President of the United States had this dav
signed an u act for finifhing a light-house or
Bald head, at the mouth of Cape Fear ri
ver, in the state of North Carolina."
A meflage was delivered by Mr. Secretary
Otis, informing the House, that the Presi
dent had notified the Senate of his having
approved and signed an " ast to establish a
mint, and regulate the coins of the United
States."
The House pursuant to the order of the
day, again resolved itfelf into a committee
of the whole, on the report of the Secreta
ry of the Treasury on the public debt:—Mr,
Seney in the chair.
The Bth of Mr. Fitzfimons's resolutions
was amended, and agreed to, as follows :
" Resolved, That the interest
on so much of the domestic debt as has
been or may be purchased for the United
States, or as shall be paid into the Treasury,
and so much of the sum appropriated for the
payment of the interest on the foreign and
domestic debt as shall be over anei above
what may be fufficient for the payment of
such interest, shall be appropriated " fir the
ndemption of the public debt." The said funds
to be applied to the purposes aforefaid, by
the comtniflioners hereafter mentioned, un
der the approbation of the President of the
United States."
The 9th and last of the resolutions was
also agreed to, as follows :
M Refoived, That be
commidioners for the purposes aforefaid ;
and that a precise account of all the debts
redeemed, and of all purchases by them
made, be laid before the legislature within
months after its fij-ft meeting in every
year.
The committee then rose, and reporter
the resolutions, as amended ; and the Kouft
immediately proceeded to conlider the fame
The firft resolution being read, as follows
Resolved, That the term foi
receiving on loan, that part of the domes
tic debt of the United States which yet re
mains unfubferibed, be extended to tht
, on the fame terms as was provided b;
the ast making proviiionfor the public deb
□f the' United States
Mr- Giles renewed his motion for a
mending it,by the addition of the following
" Except that condition in the ast, whicl
renders the debt so far fubferibed, fubjef
to redemption by payments not exceeding
n one year, on account of both principa
md interest, a proportion of eight dollar;
jpon the hundred, on any certificate whicl
hall be iflited according to the terms there
11 fpecified ; which condition, so far as il
-elates to any part of the debt which ma;
>e hereafter fubferibed, shall be abolished.'
The question being taken on this amend-
Tent, pa(Ted in the negative ■ yeas 27 ;
lays, 30.
YEAs.—Meffrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Brown,
Giles,Gregg, Griffin, Grove
Heifter, Jacobs, Kitcheli, Kittera, Lee
Vladifon, Mercer, Moore, Murray, Page.
Parker, Seney, J. Smith. Sumpter Tred
ivell, Venable, White, Willis. —27.
Nays.—Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, Bou
linot, S. Bourne, B. Bourne, Fitziimons.
jerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Gordon, Hart
ey, Huger, Key, Laurence, Learned
Livermore, Macon, Muhlenberg, Niles
Sedgwick, W. Smith, Steele, Stefrett,
Purges, Sylvester, Thatcher, Tucker,
W'adfworth, Ward—3o.
The question was then taken on the re
"olution, and palled in the affirmative.
The two following resolutions were
ilfo agreed to, viz.
Relolved, That provision ought to be
nade for payment of the interest on the
uifubfcribed part of the domestic debt ol
the United States, to the firft day of
■79 ■> on like terms as was provided b\
the ast aforefaid.
" Resolved,. •. -. That the term for re
viving on loan that part of the debt oi
the individual Hates, aflumed by the Unitec
States, yet unfubferibed, be extended to the
irft day of next, cn the fame termi
js is provided by the ast making provifioi
for the public debt."
The next of the resolutions providing sot
1 further aflumption of the state debts, wa;
tinder coniideration, when the Houit
Adjourned.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTfE.
BRUTUS, No. V.
On the FUNDING SYSTEM.
HAVING made some observation» or
the perpetual system of taxation which
has been fixed like a mill stone around the
necks e>f us and our posterity, and havinc
-raced its cause to the funding system, lei
us now proceed to take a general view o(
itseffefts— And we shall, inthe firllplp.ee
behold hosts of foreign and domestic (pecu
lators living in foreign countries, or withii
the purlieus of the treafury,drawing a con
tain tribute from the mass of tile people
who, living remote from scenes of fpecula
ion, have neither had time 01- opportuni
■y to acquire this species of property : bul
~ m the contrary have been plundered 01
:liofe which they so dearly earned by gree
ly Ipeculators, to whose artifices they have
jeen wantonly exposed, by the sudden and
urreptitious manner in which the fundins
yftem was palmed on them. It is not here
ifferted thai this was the result of a deei:
aid scheme of speculation ; the etfefts flow
?ver have been the fame, and have proved
tqually Unjust and pernicious. It is a no
orious fact that the unfufpefting soldier ha?
>ecome a prey to the knowing (peculator,
md that the certificates which in times of
lifficulty and danger, were received as cadi
or personal services, have been purchased
ip at four and fix pence in the pound ; and
>y a variety of arts have been since ftimu
ated in the hands of the purchaferr to
•wenty-five (hillings • a cirtumftance the
nore aggravating when it is conlidered that
he people who have been thus manoeuv
red, are now obliged 10 supply the taxes by
.vhich the evidences of their pad services,
jf which they have been so fhamefully plun
dered, have been thus raised in the hands of
oreign 8c domestic (peculators to five Ihil
ings in the pound above their nominal va
ue.
It has been hinted at in more ways than
ine, that some of our representatives, their
riends and agents, have had a share in the
profitable speculations which ensued from
he funding system ; while the great temp
tation they were exposed to by the facility
if purchasing certificates, and the extraor
dinary exertions they have since made to
aife them in value, are circumstances
which give a colouring to the fuppolition
-hat cannot fail making some impreflion on
the molt unsuspicious mind. They had no
thing to do but purchase at four and six
pence in the pound; vote for the funding
system, the import, and exrife laws ; make
the one permanent,and mortgage the other;
for the payment, & their bundles of paper,
formerly the representatives of the loldier,
and the patriot's services, but now of their
poverty and negle£ted Hate, become valua
ble property in the speculators hands. To
answer these ends have our ears been din
ned with the prostituted cries of public
faith, national honour, and unviolated con
tracts; or how happened it that these high
founding terms, slept for a term of years,
when alone they could have been used with
propriety, when justice, gratitude, policy,
md every obligation, moral as well as poli
tical, required them in favour of a merito
"ious class of citizens, whose health and for
ties have been ruined by extraordinary
:xertions to serve their country.
But let the Secretary of the Treasury
md his adherents beware how far they
proceed in their fuccelsful attempts to in
:reafe the national debt, and add to the
jurthens of the people, by loans, funding
yftems, and perpetual taxes ; let them re
member, that altho' the republican jealou
y of the people may sleep for a time, that it
s not extinit, and that when they begin to
eel the prefiure of opprellive and perpetual
axes, and the numerous impoiitions which
it tend them, that they may, by one exer
tion, overturn that complicated fabric the
unding system, the cause of all these evils,
snd bury the enormous fortuneswhich have
3een made under it in its ruins. It would
>e well for them to reflea that altho' them
elves may have been led on from mea
ure to measure by an artful combination
)f principles, not in their nature connected
.vith each other, and have been induced to
uftify one evil and unconstitutional act by
1 preceding! one llill worse, that the peo
ple will form an opinion of these measures
jy their individual merits, and not follow
heir financier in his labyrinth of fophifticai
-eafoning. Let them further reflect that
lowever the immense profits which have
jeen made by these fyfteins may cafl a mill
aef ore the eyes of those who are interefled.
md obtain them the applaufc and adulati
on ot a few greedy speculators hovering a
jout the treasury, that the great body ol
:he people, whose interelts will be affectei
n a different manner, may be as prejudict i
igainft these speculating measures, as them
"elves have been partial in their favour.
1 hey may perhaps think they could havt
Deen better employed in counteracting tht
injurious restraints imposed on the product
afthe country by the severe navigation law
of Europe, particularly of Great Britain
that they should not have fullered them t(
continue pouring in their fuperfluous luxu
ries without limitation, while even oui
grain and other valuable productions thi
fruits 01 hard labour, are either not admit
ted into their ports, or subjeCted to the mof
partial and limited conditions.
L If they have done a single act whose ob
ieft was,to promote the interest of theyeo
tnanry of the United States, by securing t<
:hem better markets for the fruits of theii
nduftry, let it be made known ; that like ;
jleain of light, it may shine through th<
lark catalogue of imports, excises, loans
runds, banks and bounties ; about whicl
:hey liave been so exceedingly busy for th»
profefled purpose of rising stock. A gree
:iinefs for revenue and a desire to perpetu
ite and fecureit, to speculators in the pub
lic funds, has marked all their proceedings
n this favourite object they have entirely
oft fight of the agricultural interelts : fc
much so with regard to those, who fron
heir locality & distance from a market, ar<
jbliged to convert their grain into arden
pints,that they have actually facrificed thei
nterefts, by means of an excise to the ipe
uilators in that part of the funding fyfteir
:alled the afiumption, of which the excifi
san immediate offspring. In this inftancc
t might be shown that this greediness foi
•e venue has led them so far from the line o:
:heirduty, as to facrifice the interests o!
:he farmer and distiller of whisky in the
United States, to the sugar planter and dif
:iller of rum in the Weft-Indies.
It is not here afTerted that agriculture,
ind consequently commerce, have not ii
"ome degree flourifhed for two years part,
nit this has arisen from causes entirely un
.onneCted with the general government, or
iny of its measures. The dearths, the
.vars, the dilfentions, and the revolutions
vhich have convulled Europe within the
>eriod mentioned, have been the real cauf
;s, that have given a temporary stimulus to
)ur agriculture and commerce ; hence the
lemand for our produce has been so great,
is to raise wheat to 12/6 in the bushel; and
•his again has ftimtilated the farmer to en
-reafe his exertions, and at the fame time
ias supplied him with the means of doing
t fuccefsfully.
Advantage has been taken of these fortu
tous circumstances, and with great fuc
.efs, to reconcile some people to measures
»vhich are palpably wrong. But when the
iffairs of Europe become fettled into a
:alm, and their own crops are again fuffici
;nt to supply their wants; and when, in
:onfequence of these events, the produce of
Jiis country shall be reduced to its former
'alue, for want of purchaiers to take it oft
Jtir hands, and the farmer meets no encou
agement to pursue with vigor his ufeful
occupation, we /hall then fee agriculture
languishing, and the yeomanry of the Uni
ted States dwindling into infignificance, be
cause in addition to all the difadvantaees
they will labour under for want of markets
to dispose of the fruits of their industry, the
little surplus that will remain to them,
\yhich ought to be appropriated to keep up
the neceflary improvements of their farms,
will be drained away by heavy taxes to sup
port the funding system, and supply the
wants of an expeniive government. The
merchant also, when from the fame causes,
he finds the balance of trade continually a
gainst him, will soon feel the ill effects of
paying heavy duties into the treasury to
lupport the encreafing wants of govern
ment, and to supply the demands of public
creditors. In short every class of citizens,
except those immediately engaged in fpecu
[ation, _or in adminiftring the public af
fairs, will feel the dire effects of a languiih
ng commerce, and a declining agriculture
mended with encreaftng burthens. When
•ve consider the scattered situation of the
People of the United States over an immense
:erritory, we shall find that this system of
Perpetual taxation to support a public debt |
jy paying the interest only, will be pree
iant with every mifchief. Because, added
0 the annual interest which will accrue
here will be an expenfire civil lift, all of
ivhich mtift be supplied by taxes drawn from
he most extreme parts of the union to fup
'!y the wants and extravagance of a few
hones living at the feat of government, or
a the large maritime towns. Evils which
fill be doubly pernicious, because they vi ill
leprefs the great body of yeomanry who
ire the ornament & support of their coun
:ry ; and serve to nurse up an aristocracy,
ivho will be the willing tools to undermine
tnd deltroy our free republics.
DI.-1 ai u- , BRUTUS.
Philadelphia, April 3d, 1792.
FOR the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
On the INDIAN WAR.
the prcfent confiitution of the
t? United States ceased to be a fubjeft of
nvefligation, by being adopted and put in ope
•ation, those who had opposed its adoption
without considerable alterations, manifeflcd
heir patriotism, good sense and love of order,
JV a prompt acquiescence in the decision of their
rountry, and concurrence in the execution of
his confiitution according to its genuine princi
ales. Several adventitious circumflances com
3ined to bless the country with a full gale of
prosperity under its earliest operations. Almost
1 perfect as to political controversy took
n cc - * complaint was to be heard except
;rom lome of those ardent spirits, who were ac
uated by a warm and inconsiderate zeal in pro
curing the adoption of this government, and
who expefled more happiness from it, than any
loimof government can produce; these were
3f course greatly dilappointed v and were the
hilt and loudefl in complaining of wages, grants,
See. 1 hole, on the contrary, who were prompt
- to oppose the adoption of the government,
:10m a lerious apprehension that their liberties
would be endangered by its establishment, ha
vingindulged their fears rather than their hopes,
heir duappointments were of a more agreeable
jind, and therefore much of their iealoufy fub
lded. '
1 hefe partial murmurs arising from the inevit
-1 confcquerice of the chimerical expectations
which were !o fondly chenfhed by the former
elcription persons, were of transient con
muance, and gave way to the sober reflections
Dt reaion.
But the misfortune of the Indian war, the in
rcalcd exposure of an extensive frontier to the
ncuihons of the savages, and the extraordinary
-xpence of defending it, have produced nor
Tiercly popular, clamour, but serious and nearly
lniverfal difcentent, and advantage has been ta
<en of this diipofition of the public mind, to
nake improper and in some instances indecent
ittacks upon adminiflration. Even the boafled
md unexampled success of the complex fund
nglyllem is not without its evils, and has had
10 imall share in souring the community.
My principal object is not to advocate the ad
nin IH ration in the military department, aitho*
I believe the difaileis of the late campaign are
lot wholly imputable to that quarter, but may
)e traced to a higher source. As far as I was
icquainted, which was pretty generally, want
jf success last campaign was no surprize, as it
was not expeaed. However the completeness
Jf the defeat and the magnitude of the slaughter
would have occasioned aflonifhment under any
irrangement. Nor is it my deGgn formally to
ittack the funding system. I am of opinion t
hat the public ought to make provision forthe
layment of its debts, with the greatest pun&u
ilitv and dispatch.
My intention is to examine more particularly
nto the condua of Congress itfelf. It lays con
litutionally with the legislature of the union, to
jriginate the national bufinels, and therefore it
s here our invclligations ought to begin.
Here then we have to regret the inefficient
neafures adopted for bringing the Indian war to
1 speedy and honorable issue. Had there been
1 iecond regiment raised and put under the com
mand of General Harmar previously to his ex
pedition, it would have been in his power to
have chosen his time of going out, to have
srected forts and (food his ground when out.—
He would have taken the Indians unprepar-and uncombined, and in all probability an im
mediate peace would have been the consequence,
Whilst the British hold theweftem polls, anc
their traders (and perhaps others) supply and sti
mulate thefavages to go to war, with lo exten
five and expoted a frontier liable to their attacks
and even the friendly Indians in out neighbor
hood Handing in need of conflant prote&ion
who could, with any truth or reason have said
that 2000 soldiers, properly organized and dif
ciplined, would have been too much, or tha
they would have been dangerous to the libertie:
of so extensive a territory, inhabited by a people
so well informed, so independent and enterpri
zing. I said that our own extensive frontier, a:
well as the friendly Indians in our neighborhood,
even in time of peace, fiand in needof piotettion
Conflant experience and the nature 01 the cafe
convince us of the truth of this.
Whilst the Indians are under so inefficient ;
government; whilst they are fupphed by, anc
under the influence of traders inimical to us :
whilst the memory of former injuries stimulate:
the violent and ungovernable individuals of botl
the Indians and the United States, to embrace
opportunities of revenge ; whilst the Indians ex
perience that the sure way of getting valuable
presents from us is to kill a number of people
thus spreading a general terror in order to r nde
anew treaty, and perhaps a journey to Philadel
phia to enjoy the luxuries ofihe capital, necelfa
ry ; and whilst the numerous temptations whicl
are held out to their lawless rapacity by the emi
grants descending the western waters for Ken
tucky and other diftrifts, with all their propert;
colleited in a boat, and which fall an easy pre;
to the savage free-booteis, and afford them mori
property, with scarcely any risk, in one season
than they would receive from us at treaiv
1 fay, whilst these unpropitious circiimftance
continue, a permanent foice of at least two re
giments will be neceffaiv for our proteflion.
It is painful to refleit how this business ha
been condu&ed. Without a law, 01 any lega
means of compelling the service of the militia
they were called upon late in the season to gc
on an expedition so distant that it could not be
accomplilhed in the time limited by the state
laws for a tour of militia service, confequentl)
the greater pa it of them refufed to go, and the
few who did go were very badly armed, 01
etherwife equipped for the service. Their lega
term was expired before the objeit of the ex
pedition was accomplilhed, so that if Genera
Harmer had succeeded according to our mof
sanguine wishes, he must have retreated with al
moil equal precipitation as if he had been de
feated. Certainly such a plan of conduit wa
merely calculated to irritate end combine the
savages to wreak their vengeance on afarextend
ed exposed frontier. Such were the apprehen
sions of the people on the frontiers ; those higl
in government deemed their feac»_gr«afcsi»«hai
their danger, but time and dear-bought expert
ence have convinced ibem of the contrary.
Another evil effeif of this improvident plai
was the militia being discharged in the wilder
ness without getting the trifling pittance of pa;
to which they were entitled. In consequence o
which many of them were delayed on their re
turn from Kentucky, and were afterwards killee
by the way coming up the river; nineteen were
killed in one company.
But, fay fonie writers, the fault was in admi
mflration, as the expedition was not necessary
and was provoking a war. Thevmuft have beer
inattentive indeed who did not know that the
Indian war on that quarter had not ceased wher
peace was made with the Britilh. That robbe
lies on the Ohio, with the mof
shocking murders, were continually perpetra
ting. From the frontier of Pennsylvania dowt
the Ohio, fear and devastation had their annua
reign ; in fonie instances Pennsylvania was pene
trated, and the blood of the peaceable inhabi
tants mingled with their haiveft. It is wet
known that the one regiment, altho' always acl
ing on the defenfive, was marched from ftatior
to flation, and scattered along an immenle dis
tance to afford all poflible protection. The
peoplea!fo made great and oppreflive exertion!
for theirown defence.
When things were in this distressing si I nation,
the old Congress were not poflfeffed of fufficieni
fifcal refourccs even to pay the one regiment,
orto difchargc the expences of the civil lift.—
To enable government to afford protection anc
to do juflice were the motives which influenced
the community to organize anew their nationa 1
conllitution. When the new Congrels founc
itfclf vested with the power of the purse and the
fwordin the most ample manner; when the re
fpeflive slates were constitutionally divested ol
both power and means for adequate military
operations; and when the new Congress was in
partcompofed of a great many valuable member!
who had been in the old, surely neither igno
rance of the danger and distress of the frontier
inhabitants, nor want of power and resources,
could be pretended. Thus favorably circum
flanced, and loudly call'd upon for efficient ar
rangements, what was their conduit p Why a
short law was pasTed empowering the Prefideni
to order out the militia, without providing sot
either organizing, &c. the militia so draughted,
or considering that fonie of the slates had no mi
litia law exifling, or giving authority to compel
the obedience of those thathad militia laws, or
without giving suitable encouragement to go out.
Who could expect men to undertake a service
at three dollars a month, wheiein every article
they had to purchase must be obtained fiom the
contractor at three or four times the usual price,
and where the ordinary piice of labor was from
ftven to eight dollars per month.
Equal protection to the citizens is the firfl
iuty of a government, it is that on whicli
the right of lubjection and obedience is founded,
And to fay the leall of it, Congress did not pay
lufficicnt attention to the protection of tholeci
:izens who were exposed to the horrors of lavage
boflility and rapacity. The President was in
deed required to adiriinifler protection, withou
Jung veiled with adequate means for that pur
jofe.
The result was answerable to the provision
[n addition to the former vail field of depreda
ion, the wellern frontier of Pennsylvania wa:
lttacked for near 150 miles of circuitous extent,
ind the miserable inhabi.ants who escaped till
omahawk drove from their habitations too ear 1}
n the spring to have put crops in on their owr
arms, and too late in the leaion to provide ant
prepare land in the interior lettlemenls; and ever
■vhere the nulitia went out to protect the peoph
Afho returned to their plantations with a dcligr
0 reap their harvell, they iound it had been del
royed by cattle in their absence. These peoph
lad been ruined by the tormer war, were bu
u(l got back to their long delolated habitation:
n extreme poverty, and were beginning to rnakt
1 living, when they are thus again reduced tc
lie greatest dillrels.
II those who meanly insult the fuffetings o
:hefe devoted people, by charging ihem witl
provoking the Indians to war, were but to takt
j transient view ol their situation; if they confi
tiered how licredible it is that a people thus ex
poled could wilh to lliinulate an Indian war, b)
which they would be the leverell lutlerers, or 1
they were acquainted with the friendly conduc
as thele people towards thole lavages; the)
would reflect with remorle on their injustice ant
:iuelty. The newlpaper writeis perhaps know
do better, bu; if it is true that luch language ha:
been used by members of Congrels, 1 wilh lucl
to reflett that the blood that has been Ihed botl
3f our own people and the Indians, since th<
general government has been veiled with fuliici
:nt powers to prevent it, lays in the full inllancf
it the door of Congress.
That fotne inllances of provocation have beer
Ttvento the Indians by the inhabitants of Penn
ylvania since the peace and before the attack!
nade by the Indians lall spring is admitted ; bui
hat it was done by any ol thelettlers 111 the well
;rn counties is absolutely denied. Thele peo
ire not so flupidly ignorant as not to know thai
hey would be the firft vifliras of the vengeancc
jf mcenfed savages. A revengetul murdei
:ommitted in Northumberland county about twe
.rears ago wa» atoned for to the fatisfattion ot the
Indians by the government of Pennsylvania, anc
iccordingly no retaliation has taken place ir
:hat]county on the part ot'the Indians. The per
petrators of this murder have fled the Hate, ont
person who was present at it but not a£tually
:oncerned in it, was tried and acquitted. S(uc<
he Indians were killed at Beaver Creek, b)
Bready and others, wkich tranlaftion occafionec
i proclamation to be ilfued by the governor, i
s ascertained that these very Indians upon whoir
:he outrage was committed, and who we prefu
mcd were peaceable and friendly, were making
ivar upon us previoully to the attack made upor
hem by our people; this has been difcoverec
jy the lureft of all proofs, viz. the return of tlx
prisoners whom they had taken before that time
nut alas how few were luffered to return ! Th<
omahawk aud the scalping knife arc tendc
mercies compared with the lingering fiery tor
tures under which the agonized frames of tot
many of thole are devoted to lulfer, who liavi
jeen tenderly raised and carefully -educated, ant
:iad the dreadful misfortune to fall into the hand
jf the savages.
Is it true that even members of Congress hav<
said that if the Indians had orators, nevvl'pape
,vriters,orfecretaries ot war to Hate their grievan
:es, that the provocations which they have receivet
.vould make a more numerous detail than the out
hey have brought forward. Such an aifertiot
s not deferring of serious refleilion ; but
vilh to know for what purpose it is designed
lot certainly for the intcreft of humanity.—Com
jared with the corresponding circuniltances i
lolds out this, language—the people on the fron
iers have committed depredations on the Indian
o a very great amount, although we confefs wi
ire ignorant of the fat9s, but we will believe ant
iffert it, without knowing any of the inllances
>eaufe it is a, theory suitable to our plan, which i
o let the people on the frontiers and the Indian
ight it out, and exterminate one another ; wi
vill call out for peace, but will withhold th
neans of procuring it. But the genuine lan
juage of humanity calls loudly for such efliciea
ind energetic mtafures as will put peace in ou
>ower. I fay, humanity diilates this line of con
iutft, whether we consider the whites or the In
lians. SIDNEY
[To be concluded in our next.]
CHESTER TOWN £? BALTIMORE
STAGES.
THE Eaftern-fhoie Stages, by way of Chcfter
town to Baltimore, ftarc regularly Iron
James Thompson's, Indian Queen, Fourth-street
Philadelphia, every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
lay mornings, precii'cly ar 7 o'clock, and on th
Tame mornings, at luur o'clock, from Mr.Grant'
q Baltimore. The cultivation of the countrv
and goodness of the roads, together with the at
tention that jhall oe paid by the proprietors, will
tis hoped, be a fufheient inducement for a pre
ference being given to this rout.
JAMES THOMPSON,
ROBERT HODGSON,
N. B. Light Waggons for hire by Jatr.e
Thompson, at the Indian Qyfen.
March 30; law.
I For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
IN answer to Lucius upon the Representation bill, nothing more is neceflary, than
insert the following table, which will lliow a fair comparative fcaJe of the Re-re
fentation of the free people of the United States—lts truth will bid defiance to all ino-e
---nuity, and no fubtilty of reasoning can refill its force.—As to the conllitution and the
conflruftion upon it, the public wiil judge as well as Lucius, and p rliaps with equal ca
pacity—l a!k how by the ratio of 1 1 for 30,000 in any other possible way than by the prin
ciple of the present bill, 20,000 freemen of the llate of Delaware are to be represented,
either ad.ua.Uy or virtually, the consequence mull be, that the Hate having the lead furpius
above 30.000, mult repreftnt them or they wil: not be represented at all.—How fair or equal
this would be in a government Where the liberties of the people mull be guarded by a
numerous representation, and where representatives and dired taxes are to be apportion
ed among the several states cccord.ng to their refpeftive numbers, an imp irtial public
will determine. Flain Sense.
TABLE of the numbers of free persons in the several States*
States.
Vermont
New-Hampshire
C Maine,
i Maflachufetts
Rhode-Island,
Connecticut
New-York
New-Jersey
Pennsylvania
Delaware
Maryland
Virginia
Kentucky
North-Carolina
South-Carolina
Georgia
Total
PHILADELPHIA.
April 5, 1792.
On Monday lafl the chiefs of the five
Indian nations, now in this city, met the
governor of the state in the council cham
ber, and returned a formal answer to his
address delivered to them in the fame place
;on the 26th of March. Two of the chiefs
only spoke 011 this occasion, viz. Sagoye
| watha, or Red- Jacket, and Agwelondong
was, or Good Peter.—Both these speech
( es contained their expreflions of goo . will
I and wishes for a continuance of peace with
I the people of the United States, end a
| treaty of f>;end(hip and alliance; in fV>r
| warding which, however, it was intimated
j that their nations were not completely un
animous, some of their young men not
having attended the late councils.—The
governor, in reply congratulated them up
on the profpeft of a speedy alliance, and a
mutual exchange of good offices between
the inhabitants of the United States and
the Indians of the five nations.
Perfectly risible, in one refpeft, was a
late address to the Indian chiefs in this
city, delivered in a certain aflembly. Ev
ery time they were mentioned it was un
der the pompous appellation of Princes —
It is well known that all the tribes of the
more northern parts of this continent are,
I in reality, republicans ratlur than aristo
crats or monarchy men. Calling our taw
ny visitors Princes (in the common accepta
tion of the word) is a little like the mistake
of Lord Hawkefbury's ploughman—who
having brought abafket of fine apples to
his Lordship's house in t»wn, left them
(landing in an exposed entry till he could
find the great man. In the interim, the
were mangled and destroyed by two
fine drelTed monkies, belonging to the
house. The countryman, to excuse him
felf when the nobleman appeared, whined
out, / did indeed bring the apples, my lord but they
were eaten up by the two young gentlemen, your ions.
" The National company of comedians, so cal
led, (Jaysa Paris paper) who had hereto
fore been always reckoned amongst the
dregs of the community, but have been re
cently ere£ted into something like a poli
tical existence, by the liberalitv of the na
tional assembly, seem already to have for
got their benefactors. Before the revo
lution, like the vilest and mod loathsome
of animals, they were forbidden the rites
of burial with other citizens, ; and their
bodies, when dead, were thrown into
drains and dung-heaps, there to rot with
other base, bestial carcases to whom no
refpeft was due, but now, forfooth. wh.n
they are advanced to the honorable rank of
citizens, they begin already to fall in with
the arirtocratic faction, and aft'eft to ex
hibit on the stage only thoie pieces which
have been calculated to idolize royalty,
fuchas Gaflon and Bayard, Athaliah, the Chafe
Party, Richard Coeur de Lion, (Sc. instead of
Boble energetic pieces, like Brutus, the death.
ofCeftjr, the preservation of Rome, Charles gth,
and ifierty regained; which (to mention 110
iDOrt) contain sentiments that would che
rilTia love of liberty in the people, and
check that bafefpirit of idolatry which has
been in times past the perquilite of defpo
| tic royalty.
Q O ! ; I cr j
3. s < I s -• J 3 ?
a <"D « f T> ST> < _ >—' co c
p 3 & i-. si '° Si 12'
a ■?" S " " o 'Jo §■
s 2 , i? 3 £g |s g>
>->5 cr r-H O- rt r» £. w C-!
o 1 o 1 1 >< -<- w ? = "
n o„ s"> a
. - "i 4? • a » 3
•ajuo H I( uipuaui v s 6 < c
J° Il'.a U 1 s 4 ajenas • !" 3
85,523 3 *Bis°" 3 28,507 2 42,;62
141,727 j 28,345 5 28,345 4 35,431
96,540 3 33,i80 7 , j
378, ,87 ,2 29,137 1 l6 j 2 9,7°7 |■ 5 31,688
6 7,8->- 2 33,938 2 33,938 2 33,938
235,182 8 29,39' 8,29,397 7 33,597
318.-96 10 31,8-9 11 28.981 11 28,981
172,-16 6 j 28,-86 j 6j 28,786 534,543
430,636 14 30,759 14 30,759 14 30,759
5°,2°- _ 2 25,10- j 2 25,107 I 50,207
216,692 7 30,956) 9 24,0-6 9 24,076
456,983 15 30,4651 at 21,-61 2121,761
61,247 2 30,623 2 30,623! 2 30,623
293,179 10 29,31-1 1224,431! 1126,652
H',979 5 28,393 720,9891 623,663
53.284 2 26,642! 226,642! 226,642
Uur.fracl I
3,201,355 106J 21,355/* 120 j 112
On the i ith ultimo, a pilot boat, bs»
longing to Charleston, was overset a little
to the eafhvard of that bar, in fevenfathom
water. The accident was owing to a.
fuddenand heavy squall of wind by which
the boat was overset, in which among o»
thers were eight of the belt branch pilots
belonging to the port, every one of whom
periflieil. Their names, Paul RipUy, Tho
mas Rice, Ettas orry, William Farrow, David
Rawer, John Gordon, Neil Gilkjfit Malh'zu
Dial', Samuel Waldrcn, and three other
persons Nmium conffe coelo fercno ;
Kudus in ignota Palmure. jacebis arena f
Incredible a s it may appear, it is neverthi
lefs an abfblute fact, that all the world
does not know where every merchant lives,
Witness ! On Friday evening I ast,
a r rench gentleman had to enquire at per
haps twenty ditferent places, without
meeting any one person, who could direst
him where to find a certain very respec
table aflociation of merchants in this city.
Every one could indeed tell him what fliips
they own, and what they have to fell,—
because all this is told in the newfpape^s:
but as to their place of abode, —that, net
being designated in their advertisements,
might as well have been in the moon.
Now if our citizens are so fhamefully neg
ligent, as not to cram their pocket-boo&s
(lor the benefit ol enquiring ftraugers)
with memorandums of the names and
dwelling places, even of capital wholesale
merchants, how mull puny retailers hope
to tare ? —Quere, therefore, whether it
would be nmifs in merchants and fliop
keepers, although known to all the world,
to inform nevertheless the rejl of the world
where they live, especially as the Printers
do not charge' one farthing more for an
advertisement delignating the street and
house, than tor another, which does not
tell, whether the person lives in Philadel
phia, Canton, or Constantinople.
The States of Holland have made over
tures fbr an alliance with the House of
Austria. How these propositions will suc
ceed does not yet seem to be certainly
known in } ur ipe, as it is thought the F'm
peror of Germany is rather averse to such
an alliance. Holland, itisfaicl, has become
extremely weak from her being obliged to
fend home the j6oo German troops that
garrisoned her ports, and fending out the
tiovver of the national troops to crush
the growing ipirit of revolt in the poflef
lions ot the republic in the Weft Indies.
Lieutenant furrier, who was captured by the
Indians in the late engagement under General St-
Clair, is, we hear, arrived in town, Leing close
ly pursued in the engagement by two Indiang
and f«eing death inevitable if he attempted fur
to fly or te resist, he turned about and offe.ed his
hand. he Indians not only spared his life, but
protected it fiom the vindictive madnefi of their
companions. After the engagement they thought
of conveying him to the scene where the savages
were revelling over their spoils ; but firft, one of
them took the precaution of paying a visit to the
camp to the vidors, and feeing trfem much in
toxicated took him to the tents of their particular
tribe. Thence he was sent to Detroit, where a
private English Gentleman paid his ransom, rc
leafcd him and took his note for the amount.
•if J BRUTUS, No. VI. ( is received, and
Jhall appear in cur next.The SHELBURNE THREAT.
£ A (lory founded on fait.-—'The captain of a No
va-Scotia Bank veflel, in attempting to land hi:
fifh at Boston, without paying the foreign duty
bad his vefTel and cargo seized. The captain
in a fit of irritation, swore, that if the Boftoni
ans were reduced to a starving condition, hi
would never again bring a fifli to their port !]
Shelburne's boasted town, o'erFundy'
ba - v >
(To puthimlelf in madam Fortune's way)
A Scotite came,—'tis worthy of remark,
Matter and owner of a painted barque $
Fish made the whole t-totum of his load,
With filh was every hole and cranny ftow'd,
Even in the cabbin, where he made his bed,
Bundles of fifh were for his pillow spread :
In every corner heaps on heaps lay slain,
'Twas filh on fifh—and cut—and come again !
At length to Boston's haughty port
There, many a scheme to run them he contriv'd j
For benr, by law (we scarcely need to fay)
All foreign fifh a heavy impost pay.
To save this duty was the captain's wish
And land, unseen, his long imprison d fifli s
Vain were his plans !—no scheme could he devifi
To cheat old Argus, with his hundred eyes,
(That wight who, ceaseless, ivaits the coming tides
Peeps in the hold, or through the cabbin glides) —
Vain were his plans, the unlucky sequel shews,
Striving to cheat the customs of their dues,
Ere he was able to complete his wish,
The Port-colle&or feiz'd them—evwy fifh !
" 'S blood, death, and wounds (the angry cap
" tain cry'd)
" What vile, ungrateful wretches here reside ! —
" May I be d——d, (this dreadful oath he swore
And ftampt, indignant, on his cabin floor)
" May Jbe d—— d, if at some future day
" When famine marks these Yankees for her prey
" When pinching wants their growling guts as
" fail,
<c If prayers or tears fliall o'er my wrath prevail
t{ Starve and be d d> shall be the word—that":
" plain 5
(t Sbslburne, nor I—will aid your wants again !
April 3.
From the American Daily Advertijer of March 31.
Notwithstanding ail the foiemr
frenzy which appeared in the piece [in the
National Gazette of Monday last] under the sig
nature of Federalist, upon the fubjedt of the Re
presentation bill noiv before the President % yet ht
may be aflured that however misrepresentation:
may, for a time, deceive the citizens of this coun
try, the voice of truth will at last be heard and at
tended to. The people of the United States an
neither to be milled by sophistry, nor can decla
matory dogmas, however loud or plausible, perveri
the plain principles of common sense. It is to b<
wished, that those who abuse measures of govern
m«nt, and venture upon the turbulent ocean of po
litical controversy, would adopt the previous cau>
tion, of annexing definite and precise ideas to th<
terms they use ; this is almost as necefi'ary to s
fair investigation as a true statement of facts,
Words are too often taken upon trust, and thoft
who are to judge upon public fubjecb, are some
times the dupes of a term j and more particularly
so if that term happens to be of factious import,
Take, for instance, the awful word, Confolidatior
—it is a word of dire fignif cation, as used by th<
Federalist. But as he applied it, I confefs to mi
it is altogether unintelligible. It is intended tc
convey to the citizens of the United States an ides
of the total deftruftion of that liberty and of thofi
rights for which their blood has fopr'ofufeJy flow
ed, and for which the treasures of this country
have been exbaufted. How this word can be thui
applied to the representation bill I am yet to learn
and it is for the genius of the Federalist alone, tc
reconcile things fooppofite in their nature and ef
feds. Does equality of representation imply con
solidation ? Is an equitable distribution of repre
sentatives among the several states, a confolidatior
of the union ? Ought then a numerous combina
tion of the general interests of the United States
to be stigmatized with an odious epithet, becauf
a few individuals are disappointed. Has the pow
cr of a single state been either diminished or ab
sorbed by the measure ? Does it operate as an en
croachment upon the liberty of the people of thi
United States, either in their individual or aggre
gate capacity ? What right is refrained, or wha
power has been enlarged by the principle of repre
fentation, which has been so loudly deprecated
The very calculation and table which this autho
has introduced, proves that he has either mifap
or misunderstood the term he has used. Hi
seems to argue that the whole unrepresented num
her of reprefentable inhabitants of the Unitei
States, by this bill, will amount to 50,981 —a ve
xy finall number indeed, when compared with an'
other scale of representation which can be brough
forward. By the table which he has producei
there appears to be at the ratio of one for 30,000
a frattionable number left unrepresented o
150,000. Now what will go with his doctrine o
virtual representation, as he calls it, which seem
so obnoxious to him j it would be at least as eligi
fele if true, as the doctrine of no representation a<
all, which would certainly be the caie with th<
surplus inhabitants by any other mode whicl
could be pra&ifed by the scale of one for 30,000
It is alfoto be remembered, that the bill had beer
before loft, in the dispute between 30 and 33,000,
There is equal injustice in imputing the success o
this bill to the casting vote of the Vice-President:
In this he has been mifinformed j the Vice-Pre
fident has never given a vote upon it. It had i
fufficient majority without such an appeal. A 1
to the ficknels of the Southern members, and theii
consequent absence, if it proves any thing, ii
proves too much j if it eftablilhes the inference
drawn from it, that the foutbern members, had
they been present, would at all events have voted
against the measure, it certainly shews that they
would have been governed by local reasons and not
by the real merits of the fubjeft. The man who
jJTeits without fa£, calumniates, and no person
dare determine how gentlemen would vote who
had not attended the difcuflion of the question.
It is not impoflible for northern and southern
members, I trull, sometimes to agree, in their
votes—they have done it in this very business.
It is unfortunate for us, and very feriouily to be
lamented, that four of the eight representatives
are to come from the east of the Hudson. This
is the poisoned fhaft which leaves the incurable
wound—a wound whose anguifti no pa liative can
afluage, nor can any balsam on earth check its
malignity—fix eastern states fend four members,
Jersey, Delaware, North and South-Carolinas
will furnifii the reft. Hard indeed is the fate of
the United States. Much indeed is it to be re
gretted that the state of Virginia has not been al
lowed 22 members,—the equilibrium of power
might then be better fupp#rted, and if a few ob
noxious funding systems, bank plans, and Reports
of the Secretary of the Treasury could be by any
means annihilated, the government might yet be
saved from the dark impending cloud of threaten
ing diAblution—but I mean not to make painfui
reflexions, —I acknowledge the wisdom, and ref
pett the virtue of that state, and only hope fli<
may consult her true and permanent interest, and
will wait for the prosperity that will attend herj
until the blefiings of the present government, by
a natural progress, may reach her. The time 1
do not contemplate as very distant when this evenl
will take place,—as soon as truth shall be more
powerful than declamation, a few old fafhioned
prejudices removed, and one or two local laws re
pealed, money will be plenty, credic restored, and
the people contented and happy.
A true FEDERALIST.
March 30, 1792.
[The following is copied from the Massachu
setts Spy. It is said to have been written
by a perl'on, who retired from the world ill
disgust many years ago j and has ever since re
sided in a solitary recels, lome miles from Wor
cester, which he has not discovered to any per
son.
As, in all probability, my fate would be otherwift
enveloped in as great obfeurity for years to come,
as it has been for maty paji y you, Mejficurs
Printers, are rcquefied to publijh the J'ubjequent
piece of writing. Jt may furnijb bints to a few
Jurviving friends, and fcrve to contradiEl an
opinion that gained credit from the manner and
suddenness of my disappearing.
TO wander up and down this pilgrimage of
life, Heaven's awful mandate J obey ! Ye
fuccefsful votaries of happiness, who dance the
giddy round of pleasure, until every adtive power
>f gratification is exhausted, and the senses dif
olve into a deliquium of repose, pass not un
leeded by the wandering Solitaire!— Time was,
*hen like you, his senses inhaled the fragrance
)f the feftivc board—when, like you, his eyes,
with pleasure, surveyed the fparkling cup—when
"rienr's promised, and ambition flattered; but
)f these things he has seen an end. He now
irinks from the chryftal spring, and gathers food
from the sorest. The wild beafls of the wilder
lefs Ifave found a ftielter in the fame cave, and a
efuge from their destroyer man. No sooner did
[ forego the company of the cruell-ft and most in
idious of all heaven's animated works, than I
vas resorted to and carefled by the innocents ol
:he sorest, not one of whom but a&s up to the
lefjgn of nature. To behold the countenance ol
nan, my former associate, I ramble forth once eve
•y year into the busy world. With astonishment
I witness the creative power of induftrv and art
he rugged face of the world is changed j and na
:ure, like an antiquated matron, appears beau
tified and adorned by her children. An added
:emple in this place, would tell me, that piety
ind virtue had doubly encreafed, and chat tht
»olden age was fact returning, did not the neigh
boring ftru&ure of mafiy stone correct the mifta
ken opinion. In the still solemn hour of night,
[ pass the costly mansions of the sons and daugh
ters of fortune : While you, my fellow beings, are
funk in beds of down—while foft /lumbers refrefr
your weary limbs, and fancy sports in airy vi
sions, I pass unheeded, save by the angry maftiff,
that, with open mouth, threatens to l'wallow mc
up alive. Many of you have been eye witnefle.
of my distress.—When pinching hunger compels
me to enter your houses, and supplicate lelief,
humanity fometime6 opens her generous stores,
and bids misery and wretchedness, for a moment
forget their triple load. At other times, a refufaJ
is imbittered with language of cruelty and re
proach. But the ftozk »f charity is no way fuffii i.
ent for the many great claims, which are hcurly
made upon it\ And, perhaps, the stinted alms
which were annually bestowed, had been alreadv
anticipated by the idle and diflolute. I often re.
ceive the taunts of the proud, and endure tht
contumelies of the hard-hearted and profane.—
Just God ! how have I merited this more thar
brutal treatment from niy fellow men ! The pur
ple current, that ftiil animates this shrivelled
frame, is impelled from a heart that never bid
the fuft'erer go unfatisfiea away. My time and
substance have not been wafted at the table of ha
zard—l never joined in the noon-day riot, nor
were my senses ever steeped in the midnight de
bauch : But Heaven's ways are just, and it is noi
for man that finnetb to complain.—SixUcn lont
years have rolled down the current of tia*e, finc<
I bid adieu to the world, and chose my obfeurc
retreat. The sword of civil war was jult un
flieathed—friends armed against friends, and
brothers were ftaiaed with brothers' blood ! But
1 forbear, left I touch the cord that vibrates an
guish to my foul. This is the last visit I shall
ever make to the habitations of man. My sands
are nearly run--the pulse deadens—the arteries
collapse—-and my feeble limbs will scarce beai
me to my friendly cave. Should chance ever di
rect to the place of my retreat, my story will be
found faithfully recorded on sheets of slate, with
lan inscription for my monument j it contain;
the initials of my name, with blank spaces fv
the dates. It may pofiibly add a melancholy p
to some future history j and after-generations,
pointing to the place, may fay, there once lived,
and there nowlies interred, the
1 - 1 79 I * SOUTAIR};.
THE JURIES OF FRANCE.
[From a London paper*]
It may be pleasant to our readers to fee the pre
cile manner in which the French have determin
ed to arrange their juries for the trial of crimina
pauses, and how it differs from ours.
The municipality of Paris, in obedience to the
law, have iftued a decree concerning the forma
tion of juries. It recites the Jaw on the subject,
which ordains, that they /hall commence from
the ift of January, 1792.
1. The procurer of the commons /hall make a
lift of thirty proper persons to compote the jury
of accusation, which answers to our grand jury.
2. That every a&ive citizen, who has the qua
lifications of an eledtor, /hall, before the 15th
of December in each year, write his name on a
register, to serve on the jury for judgment,
3. That out of this register, the procurator
general Syndic of the department /hall choose
;very three months, 200 persons, who /hall fo:n.
the jury of judgment for that time.
4. Eligible citizens neglecting to inferibe thei■
names on the register in the month of Decembei
[hall be deprived of their fuffrage for two years.
5. No citizen can be put twice on the lift oi
icojurymen, in the course of one year, withou
[lis consent.
The decree concludes with an animated appea
:o the citizens of Paris on the great duty of com
ng forward todifcharge the fun&ions ofjurymen,
»nd states that a double register is opened lor th<
nfcription of citizens in each of the forty-eigh
e&ions of Paris.
Thus in reality they are to have a (landing jun
or three months, nominated by the procuratoi
syndic, who again is nominated by the people.
When a prisoner comes to be tried, he has thi
"ight of objection, as in England, and the offena |
s tried by twelve jurymen. The reason of thii
nanner of ftricking a jury was, that in the be
ginning of a popular system it was thought tha
:he people were not fufficiently enlightened to be
:aken indiscriminately, as in England j but it h
lot fubjedt to the feiious objedlion of setting up .
mall number of individuals to be canvafied on
>articular occasions, and of course it is not liable
o the fame imputations as lie against our own
pecial jurymen in crown causes, namely, thai
he dearest fun&ion of a free man, that of
uftice, is turned into a profitable trade.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Address to the Citizens of Holland, or
Considering the accounts of the Periodical In
undations, which have destroyed that country
agreeing with the late accounts of the en
croachment of the ocean there.
JF we believe what heretofore
Has happened to this hallowed shore,
Shall we next age prognosticate
An inundation for your fate ;
Then Holland's citizens beware
Of what you can avoid with care,
Columbia's sons would you befriend,
Should you unto their voice attend,
Eehold with open arms they stand,
Upon the margin of the land,
Proclaiming welcome to these plains
Where Liberty triumphant reigns.--
Come listen to their timely call,
Thus from the deep prevent your fall.
Or will you disregard their cries,
Clofeup your ears, (hut to your eyes,
And on your brittle banks depend
Against the billows to defend ?
Can you the troubled sea command,
W hen building bulwarks on the sand,
Saying that "we will be obey'd,
" And here Jball thy proud waves be
April 3d.
Sales at Au&ion,
By M'FARRAN & DUNLAP,
At the Merchants Coffee-houfe, in New-York, 01
Wednesday the 25th of April next, at 12 o'clock
• r'HAT valuable and well known Grift Mill ani
*■ Farm, late the property of Alrabam De Pcyjler
leceajed 5 near Fiftj-kill landing, in Du* chefs coun
y y jeventy miles from this city, uptn the Hudson 0
North river, The mill-bouje is 32 by 80 feet y ha
me pair French burr y and one pair Efopus stones
>iew and of an approved quality ; a reeling screen
fanning milly and a complete Jet of flouv bolts, turn
ng by 'watery all of which are new and in perfei
irder j as also every other part of the ivork, bavin
lately undergone a thorough repair. The ft ream,
never failing one, capable of turning in addition t
the present, a fullery and saw mill, for which tb
Situation affords proper conveniences, and very ad
vantageousy the waters of the Hudson flowing up t
rbe mill-tail, at which a vejfel dt awing 6 feet wa
ter 9 may load and unload, and in the best whea
:ountry in the ft ate. The dwelling is large, comma
iiousy and well finifhedy built of brick andftone, 31
ft 50 feety pleafatuly situated within sixty yards o J
y he mill, with a handsome garden in front, and a;
excellent spring of water, and a new well buil
Dutch barn ; aljo a small bouse at a convenient dij
y ance from the mill, calculated to accommodate e
'radefman. The farm confijis of 274 acres, inc'.u
ding the mill stream., about 140 acres of which is a 1
excellent grove cf growing timber, lying in a
not more than half a mile from the mill, and a g<~,ci
spot of mowing ground, all properly fenced; a Jmall
but good orchard, producing abundance of the hrj
ipplesy with a number of other fruit trees > difperja
uar the houfc.
This is truly a valuable and advantageoujly fttu
Jted property, which renders it an sbjeti worthy tb
attention of a man of bufinejsy when it may be ex
'ended to any length. One half of tbe pur chafe mo
iey will be required on delivery of tbe deeds, (whe,
toMion will be given J tbe other half in one year
with interejl, secured by a mortgage on the premijc
An indijpu table title will be given—for furth-\
particulars enquire of lVlejfieurs M. l Farran a>u
Dunlapy Feter A. Schenck, New-York j or of Jfaa
De Fejfter, feller, on the premijes.
New-York, March 31-
W ajhtngion, in lie Territtry of Columbia.
A PREMIUM
OF a lot in this City to be designated by
impartial judges and 500 dollars ; or a
uedal of that value, at the option of the
sarty, will be given by the Commissioners
jf the Federal Buildings, to the person,
vho, before the fifteenth day of July 1792,
hall produce to them the most approved
'lan, if adopted by them, for a Capitol to
)e erected in this city, and 250 dollars, or
1 medal for the plan deemed next in merit
o the one they (hall adopt. The building
obe of brick, and to contain the following
ipartments, to wit.
\ conference room 1 Sufficient to
room for the Re- I acc °mmodate
prefentatives f 3°° persons
J each. .
\ lobby or antichamber to the latter, r
\ Senate room of ijco square feet
area.
in antichamber or lobby to the last.
2 rooms of 600 square feet area, each, for
:ommittee rooms and clerks offices, to be
>f half the elevation of the former. Draw
ngs will be expected of the ground plats,
•levations of each front, and feaioiu
hrough the building in such directions as
nay be necellary to explain the internal
trufture, and an effimate of the cubic feet
if brickwork composing the whole mass of
le walls. The Commissioners.
Marsh 14, 1792.
IVaJhington, m the Territory of Columbia.
A PREMIUM
OF 500 dollars, or a medal of that value,
at the option of the party, will be giv
:n by the Commissioners of the Federal
buildings to the person who, before the
ifteenth day of July next, (hall produce to
hem the mod: approved plan, if adopted by
hem, for a President's house to be erected
11 'his city. The site of the building, if
.he artilt will attend to it, will of course
nfluence the afpeft and outline of his plan,
md it's deftinatiou will point out to him
he number, size, and distribution of the
ipartments. It will be a recommendation
}f any plan, if the central part of it may be
letached and everted for the present, with
he appearance of a complete whole, and
)e capable of admitting the additional parts,
n future, if they fliall be wanting. Diaw
ngs will be expected of the ground plats,
flevations of each front, and feftions
hrough the building in such directions as
nay be necessary to explain the internal
truCture ; and an estimate of the cubic feet
)f brickwork, composing the whole mass of
he walls. The Commissioners.
March 14, 1792.
TWENTY DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN away in Augult 1790 from the sub
scriber, living in Queen Ann's ceun
;y, eaflern shore of Maryland, a country
lorn Negro woman, called GRACE. She
s about middle aged, very low of stature,
•ound face, remarkable small feet, for a
legro, and has loft several ofher fore-teeth,
rhe lapse of time since she has absconded
enders it unnecessary to describe her
:loathing. She is artful and talkative, and
! make no doubt has parted for a free wo
nan, and got into Pennsylvania or Dela
ware states. The above reward (hall be
>aid to any person securing said negro, and
jiving information thereof to her mailer,
ind reasonable charges if brought home.
EDWARD HARRIS.
Feb. 23. Sw law.
LOTS AND LANDS FOR SALE.
THE Subscriber wishes to fell sundry LotJ and
Houses in the town of Alexandria, in good
Htuat'uns for bufnefs ; fame of them are unimpro
ved. Atfo several tra&s of Land in the counties
•f Fairfax and Loudoun ; the Fairfax lands art
from one and a baf to four miles from Alexandria ;
he Loudoun lands 45 to 50 miles. A credit will
>r given for a conflderable part of the value if re.
ruired by the pur chafer } and as no person •will buy
without viewing the property, a aefcription is un
tecejjary. I will aljo fell Jcveral trails of land
1 n the iveficrn -waters, in tie inhabited par t of the
ountry, containing from 300 to zooo acres each.
Those lands will be fold low, either on long credit,
r for money, as may beji suit the purchaser. 1
>avealfo a traElof 500 acres of low land in Acco
nack county, on the Eaflern Shore of Virginia ;
\bout 90 acres of -which are cleared, on the waters
f Majj'ango River, navigable for boats through the
and. The land is of an excellent quality, and hea
lily timbered, -with White-Oak and Pine, and lies
vithin 4 miles of a landing that a vfel of 9 to 19
~eet water can load at. Mr. Walter Bayne, ■whr
ives near the land, will she w it to any who way
icline to purchaje•
JO SI AH WATSON.
Alexandria, Fib. 10 1792.
6 t 1 a t».
A few Copies of the Report of the Secretary
f State on the fubjeEl oftheCod and Whale
'■'ifhtries —may be had at the ojjice, No. 239
High-jlreet.
%* The Report of the Secretary of the
Treasury on the Excise Ail, for sale at this
IJfice.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS AND S W A I N E,
\ T THEIR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIGH-STREET
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA.
f?
£= a 1
£.3.
ro O
2 3
rt w
S*o
r - cr
a>