Voi. I.
AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft Section, begun and held at the city o!
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania
©n Monday the twenty-fourth of October, on«
thousand leven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT to continue in force, the Ast, inti
tuled, " An atl to provide for mitigating
or remit ting the Penalties and forfeiture!
accruing under the Revenue Lazes in cer
tain Cases," and to make further provi
sion for the Payment of Penjolis to In
valids'
BE it enacted by the Senate and House o)
Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congrejs ajfcmbled, That the
act, entitled, '• An act to provide Jot
mitigating or remitting the forfeitures
and penalties accruing under the reve
nue laws in certain cases therein menti
oned," shall be, and hereby is, conti
nued in full force for the term of three
years, from the palling of this act, and
no longer. Provided, That nothing in
the laid act shall be construed to limit
or reflrain the power of the President ol
the United States to grant pardons for
offences again ft; the United States.
And be it further enacted, 'i hat the
yearly penlions which have been, ct
may be, allowed by, or in pursuance of.
any act or law of the United States, tc
pcrfons who were wounded and diia
blcd in the public service, shall for the
space of one y?ar from the fourth day oi
March last be paid out of the treasury
of the United States, under such regu
lations as the President of the United
States may direst.
jffproved ly the President, May otb 3 1792.
— ■■■
At a meeting of the committee appointed b)
the American Priilofophical Society for th:
purpose oj collecting and communicating
to the Sonety materials for forming th,
Natural History of the Inject calLd th,
Hejfian Fly, as aljo information of thi
beji means of preventing or dejtroying tht
lnjeft, and whatever elje relative to th
jame may be interefling to Agriculture.
ESOL\ ED that, few obtaining m
formation of the fa£ts necessary
for forming the natural history of this
infefct, before itsentire evanifhmer.t from
among us, it be recommended to all per
sons whose situation may have brought
them into acquaintance with any such
facts, to communicate the fame by letter
addrelfed to Thomas Jefi'srfon, Esq. Se
cretary of State to the United States.
And that the proper objetisof enqui
ry and information may be more parti
cularly pointed out, the following ques
tions are proposed :
§ t.
In what year, and at what time of
the year, was this animal observed for
the firft time ? Does it seem to have
made its appearance in this country on
ly of late years, or are there any reasons
for supposing that it was known in any
part of the United States previously to
the commencement of the late revolu
tion ?
§ 2..
At what time of the vear has this in
fett been observed in egg-state ; At what
time in the worm-state ? and at what
time in the fly-flute P How long does it
remain in each of these fevcral slates P
Does it pals through more than one ge
neration in the course of a year ? If it
does, which generation of the infect is it
that proves molt injurious ?
h 3-
What kind of wheat does this infect
prove mofl injurious to? Has it ever
been fcen on, or has it proved deliruc
tive to the Spelts ? Does it ever injure
the roots of the wheat, &c. Has it ever
been seen in the flowers ? Doesitaffeft
the leaves ? What part of the stalk is it
By P. FR E N EA U : Publified Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
THURSDAY, June 14, 1792.
chiefly confined to ? Has it ever beer
known to attack the grain, orto be tranl
polled with it ? In what manner doe;
it seem to operate its injurious effects r
At what lea Ton are these effects firft ob
served to commence ?
§ 4-
Does it ever injure the Spring-wheat,
[he Barley, the Buckwheat, and the
Oat? Does it injure the Rye or the In
dian corn ? If it dees, on what part of
these several vegetables does it chiefly
reside ? Does it inhabit any of the grafif
es or other smaller vegetables which we
cultivate in our fields, our meadows,
gardens, &c. If it does, what are the
names of these graties, &c. and on what
parts of theie vegetables does it chiefly
reside ? Has it ever been observed, in
any of its stages, in their flowers ? Has
it ever been known toinjuretheirfeeds?
Does it appear to be moil deftruftive to
he Grailes, &c. of the more wet, or to
hole of the more dry foils ? Has it ever
neen observed upon any of the larger
;rees or fhrubsof the sorest, garden, &c.
11 it has, what are the names of these
:rces and shrubs ? And what parts of
:hcm docs it commonly affect ?
{ 5-
Docs this infect ieem to have commit
:ed greater depredations on the different
grains, but particularly on the wheat,
when sown in one foil than when sown
n another? Thus, for instance, is it af
.ertained whether this animal lias pro
zed mod deftruftive to wheat which has
jcen sown in a light and loose foil, or to
:hat which has been sown in a strong and
leavy loil ? Do its ravages appear to be
jrcater or lels upon the wheat of land
vhich has been recently manured, than
ipon the wheat of land that has never
3een manured at all, or which has not
jeen manured for a considerable length
jf time ?
N.B. All the Queries of this feftion
nave also a reference to the Rye, the
3at, the Barley, &c.
§ 6.
How far has the Bearded-wheat esca
ped the injuries of this in left ? which
variety of the Bearded-wheat, the Yel
ow, the Red or the White, has been ob
eyed to be most exempt from its inju
ries ? Has any variety or species of the
vheat entirely escaped the ravages of
:his infett ?
§ 7:
Is it poflible to ascertain, with anv
legree ot certainty, the extent of coun
ry which this infect has traversed in a
t 'ear, or in any other given period of
ime? Are its movements rapid ? Does
it appear that the progress of the infect
has been, in any degree retarded, or ob
(trufted, by rivers, by mountains, &c.
Does it appear that it has pursued any
general or fixed route through those
countries in which it hasbeenobferved,
as to the north, the louth, &c. How far
to the north has it been observed ? How
far to the south ? how far to the weft ?
§ 8.
Have any experiments been made to
demonstrate the degree of cold which
this infect, in the different stages of its
cxiftence, is capable of supporting ? Is
it food for other animals ?
§ 9-
What means have been found most
fuccefsful for preventing the injuries
committed by this infect ? How far has
thcprafticeof rolling the Wheat and
the Rye in the autumn and in the fpiing
been found of service ? Have any good
confcquences resulted from the prac
tice of feeding the grain close in the
spring-time ? Has the burning of the
stubble ever been tried ? If it lias, what
has been the elfeft ? Has the practice ol
steeping the grain of the Wheat, &c.
(previously to its being sown) in infu
iions of the elder, and of other vegeta
bles, been/ound of any service?
And while the Committee ask, with
eamcftncfis. information from every per-
Ton who can answer any one or more of
the preceding queftioris, they addreL
ihemfelves in a particular manner to
thole on whose farms this infcct has ap
peared, praying that they will give them
Inch details as they can give with cer
tainty, regardless of the ffyle or form oi
their communications, since it will be
the duty of .the Committee to reduce all
ihc facts received from different pnfeni
into an orderly narrative, to be report
ed to the society.
Thomas Jefferfon, 1
Benjamin Smith Barton, (Commit
James Hutchinfon, [ tee.
Caspar IViflar, J
[A few copies of the above queries
printed lo as to leave room for answer:
to each, are left at the office of the Gen
:ral Advertiser, to be disposed of gratis.
Such persons as have information tc
:ommunicate, or intend making fuel:
sbfervations as may lead to the informa
:ion wanted, by applying, will be fur
lifhed with copies.J
%* The republication of these Que
ries throughout the United States may
iffentially promote the intereffs of agri
:ulture.
Jane 7, 1792.
[From a London Paper.]
The following paper was read by Mr. Grey,
in the Houjc of Commons on the 29th 0)
lebruary, the Ruffian Amendment under
confi-:trahon. Tin member whoprefented
it, fialtd it to be the answer of the Turkish
Grand Vizier to Sir Robert Ainjlie, the
BritifhMiniflcr at Conjlantinople, daring
the Ruffian Negotiation.
" THE Grand Sigr.ior wars for him
elf, and for himfelf makes peace—he
:.:i truss his own slaves, servants and
übje&s—he knows their faith, has ex
aerienced their virtue, and can rely up-
Dn their fidelity : a virtue long since
oanifhed your corner of Europe. If all
other Christians tell truth no reliance is
.0 be had on England, she buys and fells
ill mankind. The Ottomans have no
:onnexion with your king, nor your
country —we never fought for your ad
vice, your interference or friendfliip ;
we have no minister, no agency, no cor
respondence with you ; for what rcafon
offer ye then to mediate for us with
Russia : why seek ye to fervean empire
.of infidels as ye call us Muffulmen P
we want not your friendfhip, aid, or
mediation. Your Vizier of whom you
Ipeak so highly, muff have some pro
ject of deception in view, some opprel
live scheme to amuse your nation,
whom we are told are credulous,fervile,
and adorers only of money. Avarice,
if we are well informed, is your chief
charaaeriftic—you would buy and fell
vour God—Money is your Deity—and
all things is commerce with your min
iftrv, with your nation. Come you then
to fell us to Russia P No, let us bargain
for ourselves : When fate has spun out
the thread of our good fortune we muff
yield ; what has been decreed by God
and the prophet of men muff and will
come to pass. We Ottomans know no
fineffe. Duplicity and cunning are
your cfiriffian morals. We are not
affiamcd to be honest, downright, plain
and faithful in our slate maxims. If
we fall in war, we submit to the will of
heaven decreed from the beginning.
We have long lived in splendor the firft
power on earth, and we glory in having
triumphed forages over Chriffian infi
delity and depravity, mixed with all
forts of vice and hypocrisy ; We adore
the God of nature and believe in Ma
homet . You neither believe in the
God you pretend to worship, nor his
Son, whom you call both your God and
your prophet. What reliance can there
be uponfuch a sacrilegious race ? Truth
you banish as you do virtue, from all
your conduct and actions with each
other j read the catalogue of the com-
Numb. 66.
plaints, manifeftoes, declarations, and
remonstrances of all the christian
kings, monarchs and emperors, who
have lived and warred with each other ;
rou find them all equally blasphemous,
equally perfidious, equally cruel, unjust
md faithlefs to their engagements. Did
he Turk ever forfeit his promise, word,
>r honour? Never! Did ever a chrif
ian power keep an engagement but
ivhile it suited its own avarice or am
otion P No ! How then do you think
u-earo to trust you, a nation at this mo
ment, if told truth, ruled by a perfidi
ous administration, without one grain
:)f virtue to guide the machine of state ?
The Grand Signior has no public inter
rourfe with your court; he wants none.
If you wish to remain here either as a
py, or, as you term yourfelf, an am
:>affador for your court, you may live
.vith thofc of other christian nations,
while you demean yourfelf with pro
priety, but we want neither your aid by
ea or land, nor your council or medi
ition. I have no order to thank you
or your offer, because it is by the Di
*an deemed officious. Nor have I any
:ommand to thank you for the offer of
/our naval assistance, because it is what
he Porte never dreamed of admitting
nto our seas. What you have to do
vith Russia we neither know or care ;
>ur concerns with that court we mean
o finifh as suits ourselves, and themax
ms of our laws and state policy.
If you are not the most profligate
Christian nation, as you are charged to
>c, you are undoubtedly the boldest, in
>resumption and effrontery, in offering
o bring such a power as Ruffiato terms;
uch as you, and some other trivial
hriftians united, fancy yourselves e
jualto command—we know better, and
here fore this effrontery of yours amounts
ather to audacity, and to an imbecile
liftation, which must render your coun
:ils at home mean and contemptible,
ind your advice abroad unworthy o£
ivifdom, or attention from any power,
nuch less the regard of the Porte, which
>n all occasions wherein its miniftera
lad listened to you, have experienced
:vil, either in your designs or in your
gnorance—His Sublime Highncfs can
lot be too much upon his guard against
he attempts and presumption of a nati
on so perfidious to the intercfts of its
übjefts (or colonists) —but it is the ufu-.
il way of christian princes to fell and
:ede over their subjects to each other
or money. Every peace made amongst
,'ou, as we are well informed, is made
avourable to the king that best bribes.
The Ottoman Ministry have too long
ind too often given ear to European
:ouncils, and as often as they so did,
hey either were betrayed, fold or Be
:eived—away then with your interfer
ence for the Porte with Russia.
" It has been your aim to embroil all
mankind, and thereafter to profit by
four perfidy. We ask not, want not,
nordefire your commerce, because our
merchants have been facrificed to your
double dealings—you have no religion
but gain—avarice is your only god,
and the christian faith you profefs is
but a mask for your hypocrisy—we will
hear no more from you—therefore you
are commanded to make no reply."
[ It is to be lamented that, in addition to the
absve, it was not noticed that, to the dijhon
our of t he Britijk, and feme other christian
powers, they, to this day, are tributary not
only to each other, but even to the contempti
ble Jlate oj Algiers.—Nations pretending
to decide the fates of empires and continents,
and at the fame time meanly truckling to a
nefl of Barbarians, could not have failed
adding a ludicrous feature to the gloomy
pidure drawn by the indignant Turk.J
*| # Subscribers to the National Gazette, who
wish to have their papers lent by any other con
veyance than the public mail, are desired to no
tify the fame to the editor (their letters on
l.ubjeft t» be post-paid by tbs%felvcs. Jforeign ixtell&ience.
London —March 31. —Among!} the ma
ny improvements in finance which occupy
the mind of our able and perfeveringmini
fter. we hear he has it in contemplation to
eftablifti a separate fund of ten millions to
_serve as a reservoir in cafe of war, or any
other public emergency. This regulation
will be of the greatest benefit to the nation,
as it will not only support its credit and au
thority, but prevent deep fpeculatioa in
the alley.
The 4 per cent fund will likewise come
under regulation immediately, which will
bring in i 60,0001. per year to government;
and which added to the 400,000!. already
tacked to the annual million, will put our
public debt (hitherto the dread of Engiifh
inen) iato the happiest train of liquidati
on.
A letter from Lyons in France, mentions
the rapid progress of the methodist fee"!
in that place ; their number amounting
already to some hundreds ; insomuch that
the house taken by them lalt year for divine
vorihip is found too small, and a large and
convenient meeting-hotife will becommen
ced.early this spring to accommodate their
numerous congregation.
The name of the perlon that killed the
king of Sweden, is Ingelftrom ; and hi
motives for this aflaflination are varioul!)
described- Some said he had undergone ;
long and severe imprisonment, for attempt
in" to oppose the king's afurpation ; other:
that his grievance was only a difmiflior
from the army, in which he had served a
an ensign ot the guards.
This event, whatever may have been the
regicide's motive, mull have consequence:
so favorable to the cause of the French,
that, like the death of the Emperor, the
Jacobines will notgo unsuspected.
It was on the 16th of lalt month that the
was perpetrated ; and not till the 19th
that messengers were dispatched with
the account of it to the ainbalfadors oi
Sweden, resident at the several European
courts,
Those whose minds are flrongly impres
sed with ideas of the sacred Majesty oi
kings, may, in what terms they please, ex
press their abhorrence of thii murder, bui
if it fbould prevent the meditated at
tack 011 France, the preservation of man)
thousand lives may be thought more than a
comnenfation by ahumane puilofopher, and
th.:t' the attack 011 the infant liberty o!
the French may be disconcerted by the
death of Guftuvus, seems not at all impro
bable. His Majesty's .011 is only in the
fourteenth year of his age ; and of course
during the minority, intrigues for power
may be apprehended both from the nobles
for the recovery of their former overbear
ing afcendancy,from the people for the efla
blifhnient and extension of the rights the)
have recently obtained—and from the em
press in the prosecution of the plan (he hac
fofuccefsfullybegun. Itisprobable that the
firfl consequence of these intrigues will be
to relinquiih the projefl of fending a Heel
into the Mediterranean ; for it is not like!)
that the Empress will be able in the firft in
flance, to carry a point of such consequence.
The king of Prussia will not tamely fee hei
become the guardian and dictator of the
kingdom ; and therefore it is probable thai
the intended operations against trance wil
not be carried on.
There seems in this a£t as in the deatli oi
the emperor, to be a'concatenation of event;
favorable to the eflablifhment of freedom
in France, and through France, in urope,
and the world. No sooner has the policj
of courts conceited a scheme for the attack
of this new etliiice, but the vilitation of
Providence arrests the affailents and pre
vents the effufion of blood.
The reports concerning a war between
the Monarchs allied for the protection oi
their refpeftive crowns and France, gain
daily strength and credit. The French mi
nilter of war has declared that an army of
Auflr'ans, five and fifty thousand ilrong, is
now upon the French frontier. The emi
grants, encouraged by this pofifion of the
Jmperialifts, and the march of the troops
of other powers towards the Rhine, have
aflembled in the neighborhood of Coblentz
to the number of fifteen thousand, it is said
in arms. These things seem to denounce
war ; yet what can we think when we rc
fleft on the posture of affairs in the Austri
an Netherlands, particularly Flanders and
Brabant ? The standard of Liberty and
France, raised up inoppoiition to the Cross
and German pride, would ihrow the bulk
of the Belgic or Flemish nation into the
hands of the National Aifembly ; the spirit
of liberty would prevail in other parts of
Germany : the thrones of different German
princes might be subverted by a change of
fentimgnt introduced among the troops in
tended to support them. While diflention
and revolt would be thus scattered through
out Germany, and other parts of the conti
nent, the different departments or districts
in France would be united by foreign at
tempts to divide and desolate them. Per
haps, therefore, the allied princes have no
thing more in view than to keep up a pow
erful curb on internal uifurreilion, as well
as a bulwark again!! foreign irruption,
which French vivacity has not heiitated to
threaten.
sl/>rtl 6. M. d? Chauvelin is appointed
Mir.ifter Plenipotentiary at tjie court of
London from France ; he will be here next
week, accompanied by M. de Talleyrand.
M Bonrgogne is appointed Minilter Ple
nipotentiary at Madrid.
Thefociety of the Feuillans is about to
be re-eflabli(hed. M- AJrien Duport is to
be the President, and M. Barnave the Se
cretary. They are to hold their meetings
in the church of St. liogore.
A Ruffian fleet is talke'. of it Stockholm,
as soon to appear on the coaits of France,
probably in'the Mediterranean. This ac
cords with a rumour lately circulated here,
that the Empress had fignified to our cabi
net her intention of fending a fleet of obser
vation into the Mediterranean ; and ex
prefied her hopes, that as all difptltes be
tween Great-Britain and Rnffia were now
happily terminated, herfhips would be ad
mitted into the Britifn ports as those of an
ally.
Accounts from the Italian ports mention,
that orders have been received to prepare
for the reception of a Ruffian fleet early in
the fnmmer ; and letter.; from Copenha
gen of March 13th Hate, that the court of
Denmark had received official notice that
twenty-two (hips from Cronftadt, and se
ven from Archangel, were to rendezvous
near the Sound.
M. DelefTart, the late French minister
for foreign affairs, has undergone his firft
examination before the HighNationalCourt
at Orleans, and is no longer in solitary con
finement.
The troubles in the south of France, in a
great measure.are brought to a conclusion.
The city of Aries has submitted, and that
of Avignon has been obliged to receive
within its walls a body of patriotic troops.
There can be little doubt, that the Ruf
fian fleet designed for the Mediterranean, is
intended to aid the Counter-Revolution in
France. Much trouble and expence have
been bellowed by the emigrant princes and
their patrons to create insurrections in the
south of France, 011 the coal! of the Medi
terranean, and the recent unhappy occur
rences at Avignon and Aries, prove too well
how such machinations have succeeded.
That part of the country is at a great dift
aiice from the capital ; the minds of the
people have been poisoned, and the Aristo
crats expert to find them ready for their
purpose. It is therefore extremely proba
ble, that while the Auftrians and Prussians
are attacking France on the North, the Ita
lians affiiied by the Ruffian Fleet, may land
in the neighbourhood of Marseilles, where
they hope to find a welcome reception.
Pari', April 26. The decision of the national
aflembly of France has accordcd precisely
with the general anticipation. In the fit
ting of Friday evening the important de
cree was palled which fanftions the hoddi
ties of France with the king of Bohemia
and Hungary.
It was at the fame time resolved, that a
manifefto Ihould be immediately published
and distributed through the continent, Ha
ting the provocations and the motives by
which the nation was induced to enter on
a war. It was also proposed that both the
national guards and the troops of the line
(hottld take the oath to the conftitutiou as
prescribed on the 14th of January last ; but
this new ceremony was deemed fuperflu
ous.
The empress of Russia, it is said, will
fend a fleet this summer into the Mediter
ranean. It is supposed that it will convey a
number of troops to the south of France,
and co-operate with the Court of Spain in
affiftmg the counter- revolution in France.
EVENTS IN SWEDEN.
The Dutch mail, which arrived on Sa
turday, brings less intelligence than might
| have been expected from Stockholm, the
advices from that place being of little later
date than those last received.
They concur in confirming former reports
of theprefence of mind (hewn by Guftavus
during his iilnefs. It appears that, while
he waited for the arrival of his surgeon in
an apartment adjoining to the saloon of the
| opera house, several of the foreign minis
ters presented themselves, to whom he
fa:d, " I have given orders, gentlemen,
that the gates of the city shall be (hut. You
will therefore not take it ill, if you (liould
be unable to fend couriers to your courts,
until after three days. Your advices will
then be more certain, since it will then
probably be known whether 1 c.an survive
or not." His conversation ffien related to
the effects which the accident might pr»-
duc-c in Europe; and the love of fame,
which was always his predominant paffio'n,
was perceptible in his remarks.
General baron D'Armfelt, one of h:<
moll affeflionate friends,entered the room,
pale with sorrow, and unable to utter a
word. As he approached, the king stretch
ing out his hand to him, said, " What's the
matter my friend ? Be not so alarmed up
on my account. You know by experience
what a wound is thus flatteringly allu
ding to a wound which the general had
received in Finland,
At eight o'clock c:i the morning of his
death, he received the sacrament. Tiie
iji'.esn had taken leave of him the evening
before. At half,, past ten lie died in great
agonies in the prcfence of the firfJ phylician
Danlberg, of the grand almoner Waliguift,
ot the chamberlain Borghenftiera, anti of
two pages.
The will was opened the fame day at
noon, in the apartment of the young Ling,
by Lafthom, the secretary of revision ; the
two princes his uncles and the chiefs of all]
the regiments and of the department, to-ok j
the oaths to him ; and the usual proclama- j
tions were made.
The reports in Stockholm were, that
the conspiracy was formed by an hundred
and eleven persons all noble, and residing
partly in Stockholm, partly in the provin
ces ; and that the plan coniifted of 36 arti-j
cles, one of which was, that, "as soon as
the king fliould be dispatched, the duke of
Sudermania, and the persons most attached
to his majesty, as the generals Taube and
baron D'Armfeldt, the baron Ruuth and
M. Hakanfon, fliould be attacked ; and
their heads Ihould be carried in triumph
through the streets that Lieut. Col. LUi
enhorn major of guards fliould immediately
take the command of the troops in Stock
holm ; that when the public force was
won over, the constitution fliould be re
stored to the ancient principles of a limited
monarchy ; that the prince royal fliould be
entirely executive, and committed to the
1 national sovereignty."
I The persons arretted are chiefly young
] men. Several nobles, who were moll for
-1 ward in the opposition to the king, but who
j were incapable of meditating his death, re.
| paired to the palace, fo'on after the attempt
was known. The king being
that the Count De Brahe, one of these, was
in an anti-Chamber' making enquiries con
cerning his situation' delired that he might
be admitted' and laid to him, " that,
though he was under circumstances much to
be lamented, he regarded that day a< happy
for himfelf, since it had given him an oppor
tunity of reconciliation with one of his old
est friends.
I RANCE, April 25.
Mr. Noailles, the French minister to the
Court of Vienna, on the sth instant noti
fied Count Cobenzel, Vice-Ch:'ncellor of
the German Empire, that he had received
orders to demand a declaration by which
tl.e court of Vienna fliould renounce its ar
maments ar.d coalition ; and to announce
that, in default of this declaration, the
French king will consider himfelf to be in
a state of war with Austria ; in which he
will be supported by his nation, who wifli
only a deciiion. In answer to this, as
had been expected, the Count Cobenzel on
ly made the following requisitions.
1 Thatlati'.faction fhou:d be given to the
princes pofleflioned in Alface —2 That fa
tislaction fliould be given to the pope for
the County of Avignon That the
neighbouring powers fliall have 110 rea'.on
for the apprehensions, which arise from the
! present weakness of the internal govern
ment of France.—This and another notifi
cation from M. de Noailles, containing the
answer of the king of Pruilia 0:1 the affairs
of France, agreeing in all refpefts with the
sentiments of the king of Hungary, produ
ced the following letter from I.ouis the 16th
to the Prelident of the National /iflem-
I bly :
" Mr. President,
"I entreat you to make known to the
Aflembly that I fliall come there to-morrow
at half part twelve o clock.
'I-ours.'
On Friday his Majesty came to the As
sembly, the members of which rose and
were uncovered as he entered, and took
their feats when he had reached his placc.
The king then spake as follows :
KING'S SPEECH.
"Gentlemen,
" I have come among you for an objeci
of the highest importance iri the pfeient
circumstances. My Minister of Foreigri
Affairs will read to you the Report which
he made to me in the Council on our situ
ation with regard to Germany."
The Minister offoreign affairs, then went
up and Handing by the king's fide read the
report, which the king had notified to the
Aflembly.
Minute of the Cabinet Council of France addrefftd
to the King.
"Sir,
"When you took an oath of fidelity to
the Constitution, you became the ob'ecT: of
the hatred of the enemies of liberty. No
natural tie could flop them, 110 motive of
alliance, of neighbourhood, of property,
could prevent theirenmity. Your ancient
allies erased your name out of the lift of
Despots, and from that moment they forgot
your Majesty's fidelity. The Emigrants,
rebels to the laws of their country, are gone
beyond the frontiers to prepare a guilty ag
greffiou against France, 'l hey wilh to car
ry into its bosom fire and sword. Their
rage would have been impotent if the fo
reign Princes had not fecombd and encou
raged their criminal manoeuvres. The
Houft* of Austria has clpae evey thing to en
ccr.rage their audacity. — Th: House of Au
stria, who fin.e the treaty of 1756 has fount
us good anil faithful allies.—This treaty.
Sire, sub cited us to the ambitious views 0
this House. She engaged us in al! her war
to which Ihe called us as her aii'es. W
have been prodigal of our blood in the cri'
el tragedies cf despotism. The inftam
tnat the House of Austria saw (he couli
no longer govern us for her purposes, fh>
became our enemy.
"It was Austria that has stirred np again!
r ranee the reltlefs northern potentate
whose tyrannical phrenzyhas at last mad'
him fall under the 1 word of a*i aflafiin—l
was Austria who in office, of which Enrop
'hall judge, advised one party of French
men to take np arms against the other
1 he note ofthe court of Vienna, of theiSt
feb. was in truth a declaration of war.
nl. Kaunitz there avows the league of th
powers against Trance. The death of Lec
pold ought to have made some change i
the ambitious system, but we have l'een th
contrary.
' 1 he note of the 18th of March is the u!
matum of the Court of Vienna. This not
is more'provoking still than the former
Ihe King of Hungary wishes that w
(hould submit our constitution to his re
yifion ; and he does not difTemble the pre.
jest of arming Frenchmen against French
men.
"Sire"' continues the minister, "in char
ing me with the adminiflration of
affairs you have imposed on me the tellin
you the truth : It refultsfrom this explo
lure, thatthe treaty of 1756 is broken, i
fait, by the House of Austria ; that th
maintenance of a league of the powers
an act of hoflility against France and th
you ought this instant to order M. Noai:
les, your Ambassador, to quit the Court
Vienna without taking leave.—Sire, —tl
Austrian troops are on the march —tl
camps are marked out, fortreffes are buil
ing : the nation, by its oath on the 1 4th
July, has declared that any man who flit
acceed to an unconstitutional negociati<
is a traitor. The delay granted to Auftr
is expired—your honour is attacked—t
nation is infulted—Therefore there remai
for you no other part to take but to ma
to the National AfTembly the formal pr
position of war against the king ofßohen
and Hungary."
The uiinirier having read this minut
the king refunied his speech.—
Conclujion of the King's Speech.
"You have heard, Meilieurs, the delib
"ationandthe decision of my council.
idofl their determination. It is conformal
:o the wish, many times expreiTed, of t
National AfTembly, and to that which h
jeen addrefied to me to be the wish of ;
:he French people. Frenchmen prefer v
:o ruinous anxiety, and to a humiliatin
Ure, which compromises our Conftituth
mil our dignity. I have done every thi:
:o avert war ; but I judge it illdifpenfabl
1 come, therefore, in the terms of the coi
btur on, toprojiofet you formally to declare u.
igamjl the king cfßohe la and Hungary "
A burst of applause broke from the ga
eries.
The AfTembly maintained a dignified
lence.
The President answered :
"Sike,
"The aflembly will proceed to delibera
un the great proposition which your M,
jefty lias made to them. They will a(
di ets to you, by a meilage, the result of the
"
The King then retired with hisMinifle
md conducted with the fame deputation 1
Members.
The Hall rung with acclamations of tl
people.
'i he afl'embly was adjourned to five
:he .evening.
April 19. [Evening)
Read a letter from Gen. Luckner, cam
Jlainiug that the war Miuifter had mad
)übl',c a letter of his, which was of a con
idential nature.
Read a letter from MefTrs. Beaux, mer
•bants at Marseilles, containinginformatio
diat M. Marchand, mailer of the fliip L
>olide, has discovered four islands in th
.ndian seas, which are fully peopled, an
tbounding in hogs, birds, herbs, 8:c. an
hat he had taken pofleffion of them in th
lame of the French nation, and of Lou
XVI. This letter was accompanied b
• harts ofthe lllands. The charts were ac
.epted, but the raafter of the ship wa
jlamed for .having taken pofleffion o
:he Islands, as the French nation hav.
-enounced all conquests.
THE fubferiber legs Lave to acquaint bis
friendi and the public in general, that b,
has removed from Pennington to that noted la-vert,
md ferry Jtand ofpojite to F.aflon, on tbe Jersey
fidt of tbe Delaware, tie has provided bimfelj
with a good and fafefet of ftrry-crafis, and pur
'jofes keeping the be'fl entertainment for man an,
jorfe. Every attention Jhall be paid to gentleir.ee
f rav:'llert and ethers by tbe public's inoji obedient
2nd very bumble jervant,
THOMAS BULLMAN.
May Bth, 1792. OvjiaiuPHILADELPHI A.
June 14, 17 92.
A S. Carolina paper of May 20th, averts
that ''en. Jackson has declined serving asa
representative of the state oi Georgia, 111
Congrefi.
The late refolutiofl of the house of com
mons (fay the London prints) S
the (lave trade, fcems likely to end merely
in a,5 nbftraa proportion— that it tra 0 M to
be abolished.
Verbal accounts arc said to have been
received in London, about the ™ "
April, from Bengal, intimating that 1-|
poo Saib was furrounoei. 011 a.l qti. y
the Fn?liih armies ; his troops ducrt
great numbers, and ail
from him. Should these "rcuml arces be
true, it is probable we may have he nesv
of his capture by the next arm a ■
A theatre, it is said, is ifaortly to lie
.MM*. Ch„le!>.n (S, C.J <V;«"
Ai^e r 'caii Company of Comeci.
cxpeiled to be ready for exhibiting the en
faing winter.
A cause was lately brought before the fe
deral court ot South-Carolina, ftatu.g
claims of a certain British mercantile house
(in London) against the furx-'ving ■
of an American house in The
e-eat question for decision is whether
cl 'bts due from merchants m America to
those resident in England ihoukbear >n
tereft during the war ?—1 he plaintifc has
obtained permilfion of the cpurt tofend ro
England to examine witnefles, to fub.tau
tiate the claims.
. An officer (of the firft regiment) and a
soldier, being lately at a short d.fWfrom
Vo-t FetTerfoii, were killecPand scalped by
the Indians -small parties of v. hom u
seems, are continually hovering about that
port.
On the jth ult. Gen. Anthony Wayne
had reached as far as York (90 miles we:
of this place) 011 his way to joji the weKei 11
army.
The President and Directors of the bank
of New-York have tendered the fennces
of their bank to the bank oi Aloany, offer
ing to receive the paper of the latter, and
exchange, without any particular limita
tion.
" Twelve hundred (hares (fays an Alba
ny paper) are subscribed to the northern
and western' canals, in the city of Jew-
York only ; which added to the other sub
scriptions, the amount is 1425 ~a r, e s
whereas one thousand fhareswould ha\ e
been fufficient to set the whole o. ootft ca
nals in motion."
We learn by accounts from the wefl
ward, that seven hundred rifle-men have
eroded the Ohio, at the nioutn 01 Buftaloe,
above Wheeling, about the 22d ot ..lay,
to make a dafhat the Indian settlements,
at and about Sandufky.—Several Indian de
predations have been committed in and
about Reed's Station—the predominant
rai'e amongil them, feeins to be the ca.ly
ing off horses, in which they are but too
luccefsful.
That deftru&ive infe£t, the Heflian fly,
has made its appearance about Elk-Kidge,
in Maryland, where the crops of wheat
have generally fallen before it. In \v elt
lerfey, considerable damage has aifo been
done bv the fame infect ; many farmer:
having found their crops already io lar ru
ined, as to induce them to_ turn in their
cattle to feed upon the remains.
The accounts lately published in several
Marylmd papers, and from thence into
the Philadelphia prints, of lue death o.
Gen- M'G;llivray leem to be without foun
dation. A letter received :rom a gentle
man in Augulla (Georgia) dated May 23.
mentions his arrival at Rock-landmg with
a number of the upper chiefs; but, iii con
feqncnce of two white men who v ere mur
dered, some little time back, they have
all returned to the Creek nation, in order
to hold a grand council to decide this bu
siness, which will in all probability detain
the running of the lines for thc!e ti.iee
months."
The extreme cold weather, for the fea
fonand the vast quantity of rain which has
lalien within a few days part, we have rea
son to apprehend will do injury to crops in
every part of the country. The oldeit in
habitants ofPennfylvania do not remember
weather in the month or June equaLy un
seasonable.
ExtraS of a letter from a gentleman at Wheclen,
dated the of May.
" It is now near two months since we
have had any alarm of the Indians in our
quarter; what they can be about we can
not suggest ; we have had two parties of
scouts out thro' the Indian country, but they
have not yet returned, being away two
weeks. 1 here has been an expedition a.
gainst the Sandufki Indian towns attempted,
but has fallen through by reafonof men not
turning out to a fufficient number ; about
300 rendeveuzed at this it w as con-
ilucu'ci that £ or 600 men would be the least
hat coul.l venture in hopes of fnccefs, li
is now concluded on by our county lieute
units to apply to our government for aflift
uice, as well as to tiis government of the
L! iii ted State ;, to enable us to carry the plan
11 to execution."
A pretence to divine inspiration h3S bet!!
:he ltale trick of inipofture ;n all ages.-——
1 he learned rem!will readily recogniic
i striking resemblance between the con
.'iil'ive ravings cf the Heathen priests wher.
>iaced Oil the sacred tripod, and the inco
lerent rapfodies and grimaces offome mo
.lent declaitners. —V et they have to boafl
Liieir popularity a:id their crouded audien
ces. I'.'any reufons, which have no col
lection with genuine chrillianity, might
be aligned for this : but brevity will con
fine us to one. Uncultivated minds cleric
liieir greatefl pleasure from violent c 111 o
t:ons. Multitudes will pass the molt ir.-
(Irnftive lecture with indifference, anc
crowd to an execution. There the tra
gical end of the criminals excites a mix
ture of terror and pity, which they indulge
far a v. iiile, and afterwards retire to the
banquet of the brothel with unabated avi
:':ty. The fanatic preacher builds his cele
brity on thifJdifpofition;D)' degrees/te wot k
tip his imagination to a pitch fumctent tc
throw the animal spirits into a ferment .
then expatiatiug on the henioufnels of In
thunders forth the threatnings of the law.
The audience catch the contagion, and are
agitated with all the emotions of terror
When the preacher thinks the storm ha
taken fufficient effect, he dispels '.he cloud;
ai:d presents a clear !ky : T he proniifes o
the gospel are now thrown out with a ra
pidity and irreverence (hocking to think or
at his magic word the passion is inftantlj
changed, unci the well difciplincd flocl
become diliolved in floods ot joy and ex
i.! avion. To close the scene, they art
difmifled with afliirances (taken from scrip
tnre allesrory) that tlio 1 poor and defp.fec
in this world, in the woi Id to come the;
(hall receive palms of viilory and crown:
ofglory," The transported congregation
■fter extolling thegreat good fcpa
rate, and con'ider the work of religion at
an end, ti l the next joyful meeting , wher
tne lame rough flrain:, dumbly tranipofcc..
are again played over, and the fame lidicu
i jus nu:r...nery re-atteu. Is it poffib'.e thai
, .iv person can discover the fmallefl analo
gy'b-.-t-.v-cen fanaticifro, and that compofec
. ational devotion which ought to prevai
:ii a christian afl'embly ? can that lincert
contrition offpirit, which proniifes a de
parture from lin have place m the frantic
ravings of a disordered mind i can latum
refolvesof reformation be formed ami'.li
the tumult of pailion ? L Virginia Gazette
It is equally happy and honorable foi
America, that among the difcordaut fee
lions into which society may be throw n
•lie has nothing to apprehend, and ever;
tiling to hope, on the score ol Religion. Ihe
Rights of opinion are not only eftabiil ied it
our charters of government, but are \\ i it
ten in the hearts and minds of our citizens
If a difference in religious creeds exik;
among us, it is no longer a torch ot clilcorc
inflaming the evil pallions ot human nature
and consuming every benign fentimeni. o
religion itfelf: It has been converted b;
the enlightened policy of our country, uu;
a mutual and benevolent tolerance, which
thourh among the latest virtues that have
rc-vilitcd the earth, is one ot the noblcf
that can adorn society, or cement the af
fections of its members. Perfection i.
extinct; and whether patriotism or pietj
were to pronounce on the man who coulc
wish to re-kindle it in any form whatever.
he couid only have to chufe between the
sentence of a contemptible bigot, or a hypo
critical incendiary. —Such is the genius ol
American Liber rv —Let the boaters oi
European liberty blush at the contrail 1
From a Correspondent.
We hear from Georgia, that General jack-
Ton has declined serving as a Representative ir
Congrefsfor the Eaftein diftritt of that Gate.
It fircms hard upon Georgia that the people
should not have been duly reprc-fented during the
moll interelhng part ol the lall fcliion wiicn Ic
many laws of the utmofl importance were pas
sing : It mutt also have produced a degree of
chagrin in the government of that slate to find
thei°r official communications toCongrefs reje£l
ed, declaring their opinion that Gen. Jackson
was their true Reprefer.tative ; and it mull have
increaledthat chagrin to the highest ciegree to
find, that they fliould lose their weight and con
sequence in the scale of legal representation by
only the vote of an individual unattached, anci
by them fufpefled to be inimical to their inter
ells. —Thai there was an evident bias ir. the
House of Representatives, of a moll singular na
ture, in the vote given ihe 2 ill of March lafl,
muflappcarto every impartial examiner, who
will take the tioub'.e to call his eye over the
Yeas and Nays, where it will cleaily appear that
the northein members generallyjvoted in the ne
gaiive on the qucflion for declaring Gen. Jack
lon entitled to a feat. Whatever might have
influenced members to advocate northern and
fouthcrn mtereft, upon the great queflicjns of al
fumption, permanent residence, impofls, or the
like, full it mull appear fliar.gc tp unbiased
meu lhat those f-parate inicrcfls fiiould be op
pofeclon a ijueilia'n of a legal nature, Inch aslh.it
of a contelled election ; and it it is to be lament
ed by the people ot the United States that theie
ftiould already fpvin<| up under the present gov ■
ernment a species ot intrigue v.hich must, if it
ir.creafes, piove extremely noxious to the har
mony of the union,
General Jackson's condufl in checking the
firft corruption that was attempted 10 be piaftil
ed against the freedom of election In ice the efii
blithment of the present constitution, has been
justly admirca by every true republican in Amer
ica, elpecial ly, when it must now appear that he
was actuated by no other than the most patriotic
motives : for, he Ihewed no fort of refentmcnt
against his opponent, neither was he anxious foi
a feat in Congress. Ihe true motive was, thae
of fcrving his country, by holding up to the pub.
lie delegation a corrupt judge, and making an
example of him, to deter others from attempting
the like infamous conduct, in futuic and, m
doing this, Gen. jackfon has evinced great abil
ities, expended a considerable sum ot monev,
rifqued his life and h»alth at an inclement feafoo
of ihe year, and having completed the bufinels,
has been again called on by his fellow citizens to
represent them. Indeed, he has received the
public thanks of the government of his own
slate, and is well defcrving of the thanks of all
the freemen in the United States. His mde
pendent cor.dust, and his abilities, may have
proved irkfometoa parly in the legislature of tr.c
union, who have cxpofed their Mibcrality on ma
ny occasions ; buthifc merit, and spirit will not
be futfercd to remain in obfeurity, whilQ there
is an honed printer on the continent, to record
it ; whilst the slate of Georgia can remember the
insult it has received, and whilst it yet remains in
thcirpowerto resent it, by electing this man
their Governor, which they will molt assuredly
do ; thus holding him up in their highest place
ofhonour, whilst they will Jeave the j un A C
of Bankers and Speculators and arrr.y-contratt
ors, a group of living" fgurcs,for the handy
time topoint his fiow, fcornunmoving fnger at.'
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
ONCE MORE,
Ye foreigners, attend!
QUppofe I (liould , by found of trumpet,
t3 proclaim through the streets, that al
foreigners deserve to be baniflied, as danger
ous men, would you think it a fufficient ap
ology, if, in 4 or 5 days after, when tallet
to account for my conduit, I should fay, the
words were net mine, but that I haei heart
a drunken sailor utter them in a grog-shop :
Suppose again, a man who has wil't/Uypoijon
cd his neighbour, should plead in excuse.
that it was not he, who prepared the dole,
but some obfeure apothecrry; —wcuid fuel
an apology save him from the gallows :
I hope not : though I fear, that on this point
I differ in opinion from Mr.Pernio, who ha
ving publillied in the Gazette of the Uni
ted States (under the Philadelphia head,an
qualified, and without quoting his authority) a pa
rai/aph reflecting on foreigners, tin .ik i's
fufricient apology, to inform us, fever aid, w
after, that he had copied it from the Newarl
Gazette. But why did he copy it at all ? ant
how are we to know that he really did to
py it, unless we fend to Newark for a com
plete file of the papers, as he has noi
told us, when the piece appeared, wbethei
before the revolution, or iir>ce ?
Must a foreigner, whenever he finds him
felf, ill common with all otiieiforeigners, in
cited orjlcindered in the Gazette cj the Unitet
States, write off to all the printers in the
Union for their papers for two or three
months back, and spend as many months ir
teadinr them, to find out the source of the
(lander", before he can venture an answer :
It seems he nmft, if I understand Mr. Fen
no's publication of this morning : and c
more ready mode could not pcfnbly be ta
ken, to establish aristocracy ; since no mar
could then venture to answer a paragraph
unless he was rich enough to fubferibe lot
every paper in the United States, and coult
spare time to read them ail. A poor re
publican, who cannot spare money or time
for more than one paper, must be silent
because he cannot trace a paragraph whicl
perhaps originally appeared in some cb
lcure paper printed at Wifcafl'et, Mulkin
gum, or in the back parts of Georgia : ant
tiien, how easy for a designing printer, tt:
,'end obnoxious paragraphs to distant, ob
fcure parts,merely for the purpose of copying
them afterwards into his own paper at the
feat of government! how easy to fcreec
himfelf from censure, by giving his own
original pieces under the cautious title ol
•EttraEls, ' Communications? See. The varioui
tricks of this kind, praftifed by jobbers and
speculators, have taught merchants to be
cautious with refpefr to mercantile para
graphs : and why should we not be equal
ly so, in reading political paragraphs, which
may be fabricated in the fame manner ?
Allowing however, that the paragraph
in question was net fabricated in Philadel
phia by Mr. Fenno, or any of his friends
(which indeed I don.it mean to insinuate)
can Mr. Fenno deny, that he has hrmflf of
tenthrownout injinuatwns agamjiforeigners,
as being the writers agninjl government, and
consequently "enemies to the govemmeni'' as
he commonly calls fuqh writers? If he
does, I can prove the charge against him,
by recurring to the tiles of Uis paper. Nay,
Uc has saved me the trouble : for in his Oa
iette of this morning, he declares his '■'foil
:onvi(lion that the infmuation is well founded."
But I would ask Mr. Fenno, was it 3
pack of foreigners, and runaway Jlaves, who,
as grand jury, in Georgia, presented the
Excise as a public nuisance ? Was it a
pack of ragged foreigners, who assembled
in Richmond, to remonstrate . gainst the
tax upon newl'papcrs ? Is it foreigners
who write againfl the measures of govern
ment, in Boston, New-York, Philadel
phia, every part of the union ? Was it a
trew of discontented foreigners, whole
patriotic eloquence lias, for three years
past, thundered in Congress against every
□ne of those measures, that are reprobated
in print ? Was it a band of foreigners,
sviio declaimed against the assumption
luring the last session, and triumphantly
irove the AJfumptioneers from the field ? —
Was it a ho.: 01 foreigners, who, with the
President of the U.S. at their head, kick
ed out of doors the fraEliomzing reprefent
itionbill, to intioduce a csnjl tutional one.?
[s it a pack of foreigners, who , after the
jth of March next (when the reprcfenta
ion is equal) will gratify the people, by
-cpealing every obnoxious law ?— If it be,
then " the infmuation is well founded" as Mr.
and all foreigners ought to
tie banished, especially those foreigners, who
lave tftablifhed various manufactures in the
"outhern states, and thus spoiled the trade of
N. England ; and those others, who are
"ettling the back lands, and raising the
price upon the emigrants from the east
ward.
Mr. Fenno seems displeased at the u per
lite and candid manner," in which he has been
quoted. If 1 had (as other writers have)
railed him " the ariflocratic printer,"" " Pompo
fo's printer,'' 1 or J— A—s'sprinter," he might
have some reason to complain : but he has
none, when, without any difgraceful ad
dition, he is designated by the nairSe of John
Fenno, which he prints at the head of liis
paper. If however he thinks the name of
John Fenno a disgrace, I humbly beg his
pardon for having ufedit : and hence for
ward, if ever I have occalion to mention
him, I will, if he thinks proper, designate
him by the name of Jack the Giant-Killer, or
any other name he chufes to adopt.
I will hereobferve, by the way, that nei
ther Mr. Fenno, nor any one of those few
printers who accord with him in sentiment,
has any reason to complain on the score of
politeness and decorum ; as they have, for
months pail, loaded every republican print
er and writer with the moi. virulent abuse,
which has escaped the knowledge of the
public in general, only because the persons
who were abused, disdained to take notice
of it.
He complains, that " none but mutilated ex*
'racis" of Ilia are publiflied. Doe he
that any man, for the fake of re : 'utir n
lingle afiertion, will take the trouble of co-
I ying out the whole p>ece that conta'n. " ?
I'his would be a mafter-flroke in diflemi
i.ating his principles thro' the union and
liaking all the papers in the U." States
ling the fame tune with Mr. Fenno. If it
is 110 affront to mention Mahomet in compa
iiy with Mr. Fenno, Mahomet has asserted
in his Alcoran, that women have nofouls■ Now
suppose I wifli to refute that position in a
newspaper, must I pay the printer for pub
ifiling the entire Alcoran,chapter by chap
ter, for whole months together, before I
:an venture to reply. ? lam afraid I must,
eft Mahomet and Mr. Fenno should complain
jf the publication of " mutilatedextrafls —
[ hope however, that men offenfe and can
dor would not listen to the complaint of
;ither Mahomet or Mr. Fenno in that cafe ;
mt allow, that when a writer only under
takes to refute a particular afiertion, ei
.her in the Alcoran or Gazette of theU. States,
t isfufficient to quote that aflertion, with
mt republilhing all the farrago of fluff that
icccmpaniesit. OH LA !
"3-
This day is pullifhcd,
■\nd to be fold at No. 54, S. Second-street,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL,
And BF.NJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147. Market-street,
\Price tenJhillngs, neatly bound~\
The New Art of Cookery,
According to the present practice ;
Seing'a complete Guide to all Hoafekeepers,
on a plan entirely new—
Consisting of thirty,eight Chapters.
—Containing—
PROPER diiettions for marketing:, and truf
fiog of poultry ; The making loups and
troths ; Drefling all forts of fifti J Sauces for eve
y occasion j Boiling and roasting j Baking, broil—
ng and frying; Stews and halhcs ; Made d.fhss
fevery fort j Ragous and fricafees j Piredlions
or dreiiing all loris of roots and vegetable!; All
ores of aumlets and eggs j Puddings, pies, tarts,
cc * Pancakes and fritters} Cheesecakes & Cuft
rds j Blancmange, jellies, and fvllabubs } Dirtc
ions for the sick j Preserving, syrups, and con
nives ; Drying and candying j Allfortsot cakesj
logs sausages, &c j Potting, and little
n ld diHies ; The art of carving ; Collaring, faU
t i„<r, and fouling ; Pickling jTo keep garden
See j Made Wines; Cordial Waters 5
Brewing j Englifli and Freach bread, &c,-—eTh£ ViLLAGE MERCHANT.
[Continuedfrom No, 64. J
ALACK-a day ! on life's uncertain road
How many plagues, what evils mult befal j
Jove has on none unmingled bliss btftow'a,
JJut dilappointment is the lot of all :
Thieves rob 1 ur stores, in Ipi te of locks and keys ;
Cats steal our cream, and rats infelt our cheele,
The fineffc coat a gre ale spot may afl'ail,
Or Sulan pin a dith-clouc to its tail !
Our Village-Merchant (trust me) had hisfhare
Of vile mil-haps—for niw, ihu gosds unaack'J
Difcover'd, what might make a deacon swear,
Jugs, cream-pots, pipes, arid grog-bowls fad!j
crackt.—
A general groan through all the crowd was hearc
Molt pitied him, and some his ruin fear'd :
Poor wight ! 'twas fad to fee him fret and chafe
"While each enquir'd— 4 Sir, is the rum-cojk fafe ?
Alas ! e*cn that some mifchief had endur'd—
One rascal hoop had ftarced, near the chine !—-
Then curiously the bung-hole they explored
With Hem of pipe, the leakage to define,—
ft Five gallons mujl be cbatgd to loss and gain f % '
—Five gallons!" (said the merchant) writh'd
with pain—
tl Now may the cooper never fee full fiafk
" But still be driving at an empty calk—
4< Five gallons might have inellow'd down th
'squire,
" And made the captain strut a full inch highe
** Five gallons might have prompted many
song,
" And made a frolic more than five dayskmg—
44 Five gallons now are loft—and, lad to think
44 That when they leak'd, no foul was there t
drink !"
Now (lightly treated with a proof-glafs dr.im,
Each neighbour took his leave, and mov'd to bed
All but the merchant ! —he, with grief o'ercome
Revolv'd flrange notions in his scheming head —
44 For Jofles, such as these, ('thought he)'ti
meant
"Thatgoods aie fold at twenty-five per cent--
44 (No doubt, your trading men know what i
just;
(t 'Tis twenty-jive times what tbey ccfl at firjl, "
So rigging of)* his fiiclves by light of candle,
The ancient fraoke-houfe walls began to shine :
Here flood his tea-pots ('some without a handle)-
A broken jar—and there a keg of wine,—
Pipes, many a dozen (ordered in a row)—
Jugs—mugs-—and grog-bowlj.-lefj for sale thai
Jbo'iv —
The leaky cask-- replenifh'd from the well,
Roll'd to its birth — but w« no tales Will tell——
Catching the eye in elegant di/play,
All was arrang'd, and foug, by break of day :
The biue dram-bottle on the counter plac'u,
iitood, all prepared for hint that buys to tafle---
Sure bait ! by which the man of cash is taken,
As rais are caught by cheese, or scraps of bacon
[To be continued. ]
On the prolongation or the polar ax
IS OF THE EARTH.
[Tranjlated from a new ivork, lately f>ubliJ7:ed a
Paris.]
UPWARDS of a century ago it was universal
ly believed that the earth's polar axis was pro
iongatcd, and at present people are as thorough);
parfuaded that the earth is flattened about thi
poles j or, in other words, that the cquatoria
diameter is longer than the polar. I shall not
in this place, enter into an examination of th<
principles upon which this latter hvpothefis i
io»nded, or of the observations which have beer
brought to support it. The earth's being flat
tened at the poles is supposed to be occasioned bj
the centrifugal power, which is also made to ac
count for its progrcllive motion in the heavens
altho' this imagined power, which, it is pretend
cd, has added so much to the equatorial diame
ter of the eartn, has not in reality the ability t«
raTe a single straw from the furface. It has beer
said, that the notion of the earth's being flatten
ed at the poles is amply proved by the differed
mealurements of two degrees of a terreltrial cir
cle, procured at an immense expense, one in Pe
ru, near the equator, the other in Lapland, ir
the vicinity of the polar circle. These experi
mentswere, no doubt, made by men famous foi
their knowledge in such matters. But others a:
wife and as famous as themselves, have undenia
bly proved from other principles and other experi
ments, that the earth is, like an egg, prolonged
towards the poles, a fufticient proof of which ii
the incrcafeof the quantity in a degree of latitude
as you advance towards the poles. The polar ax.
is of the earth, according to Cajjini, is ellimatec
at fifty leagues more than the equatorial diame
ter, which gives cither pole an elevation of twen
ty-five leagues above the perfectly globular cir
cumference of the earth. I confefs myfelf a con
vert to the opinion of the last mentioned cele
brated philosopher ; for the truth of which, also,
we have ocular demonftiation in central eclipses
of the moon, at which times the shadow of (he
earth appears of an oval figure at her poles, at
both Tycho Biahe and Kepler have observed ;
whose names may here stand in flead of many
others.
This image of the earth, when thus presented
to our view in the heavens, is so plain and ftri-
Jcing, that her rotundity is lenlibly and visibly
altered.
Many naturalists have supposed, as I do, that
the earth is covered with ice at the poles, to such
a height as to render her figure fenfibiy oval. And
this hypothesis serves admirably well to resolve an
important difficulty, which not a little embar
ralled both Tycho Brahe and even the fagacrous
JCepier, in their observations upop central (or to
tal) lunar eclipses, when she was on or about the
equator ; as in that observed by Tycho in the
year ani by £ep)er in 1624, of which he
thus fpeaks--*" It is to be noted that thiseclipft
of the moon (meaning that on Sept. 26, 1624]
very much deceived uu in our calculations ) t"
the duration of toi.il davknefs was not on!/ verj
fliort, but the remainder of its duration of muel
Shorter continuance than we expected, as we!) a
Che time preceding the total darkness J juti as i
the earth was of an cliiptical forin,and having be:
Jiametcr under the equator /horter than thatex
ending from one pole to the other.*'
Cut, without having recourse to the authorit;
if any names whatever for the support of our fyl
:cm, «s may conclude from analogy only, tha
the axis of the earth is the diameter.
The mountains (Cordilleras) of Peru, whicl
ire mere mole-hills in companion to the two he
yiifphercs, and the rivers flowing from which an
nere brooks in gcomparifon to the vail ocean
lave (olid ridges of ice upon them from 20 to 31
eagues in breadth, iaterfperfed with pyramids o
ce and snow in their center from 12 to 1500 fa
homs of elevation. If these are so immense
vhat ought then to be the height cf the valt coin
if ice at either pole, which in their refpedivt
vinters have a circle of ice about them aimol
[200 leagues in diameter ? For my own part,
lave no doubt, th.'t the prooigious thicknels 0
hefe cones, at the poles, is one cause of thi
arth having appeared < f an oval form in the cen
iai eclipses of the moon obf.ived l\y Tych.
3rahe and Kepler.
From such a configuration ps the globe rcfult
tlf • another conference. If the elevation of th
>olar ice is capable 0/ altering the foirn of th
(lobe, as in in the heavens, its weight ough
o have some influence upon tiie earth's inotioi
n the ecliptic. '1 heie is, in fad, a remarkabl
inalogy between s the motion by which the eartl
iltcrnately prefehts its two poles to the fun ii
me year, and the reciprocal melting of the j>ola
ce which happens in the fame spice of time,
tonceive the motion of the earth to be afl'eflei
>y these alternate meltings of the ice in the so!
owing manner: Admitting, with aitronomers
he laws of reciprocal attraction amongst the stars
:!ie earth ought certainly to present to the fun
>y which (he is attracted, the heavicfl part of he
)ody. But the heavieit part ought to be one 0
ler poles when surcharged with a cone of ice
ibove two thousand leagues in circumference
ind of an elevation far exceeding the highest parti
jf all continents. But, id proportion as the ic<
>( this pole melts, whe» the fun becomes men
vertical; and, on the contrary, as the ice of ih<
>ppofite pole increafcs, as the lun recedes fron:
t, it must follow that the former pole becoming
and the latter heavier, the centcr of gra
ity pasTes alternately from one to the other j and
rom this alternate preponderance must necell'arilv
efult the movement of our globe in the ecliptic,
vhich gives us summer and winter.
It would foilow from this alienate change ol
veight from one pole to the other, that our he
nilphere, having incomparably more land than
he louthcrn, and consequently being m<-re heavy]
>ught to be inclined for a longer time towards the
un than the other. This actually happens, finct
ve have live or fix days more of summer than ol
vinrer. Hence it follows that our pole cannot
ofe its center of gravity till the opposite pole has
oaded itfelf with a weight of ice greater than the
vcighc of our continent and the ice of ©urheiriif
)here. This also iz proved, from experience, to
)-i the cafe ; for the ice towards the south pole is
mere high, as well as more extended than that
ibout our pole ; navigators never having been
J bl *to advance to more than 70 degrees of south
latitude, whereas it is common to fail beyond
$2, north. This at once explains the reason why
he power called Nature has thought proper to
iifcinguifh this globe into two hemispheres, the
)nc including within itfelf the greater quantity of
and, and the other the largcll portion of seas,
:hatin its motion it might partake of the two
jroperties of versatility and steadiness. Hence
no we fee the reason why the south pole is placed
n the midst of immense oceans, far away from
my land, that it might load itfelf with a greater
juantity of marine evaporations, accumulated
• round it in the form of ice, and thus balance
he weight of those immense continents which ex
end over the noithern hemisphere.
June 11.
The following letter of the late Dr. Samuel John
foil, may give a tolerable idea of the peuantiy of
that author. It was written to an acquain
tance, upon his having fallen into the river Lif
fey, in Ireland j where he narrowly escaped
drowning.
" WHILE I was admiring the fantaftical ra
tifications ot some umbelliferous plants that hung
>ver the margin of the Liffey, the fallacious
>ank, imperceptibly corroded by the moist tooth
>f the fluid, gave way beneath my feet, and I was
uddenly submerged to some fathoms of profundi
y—prelencc of mind, in constitutions not natu
ully timid, is generally in proportion to the im
ninency of peiil j having never learnt to move
hrough the water in horizontal progreflion, had j
lefponded, I had periftied ; but being for a mo
ment raised above the element by my struggles,
■by some felicitous casualty, 1 was sensible of
he danger, and instantly embraced the means of
extrication ; a cow, at the moment of my lapse,
»ad entered the stream within the distance of a
protruded arm, and being in the adt of tranfvcrfc
|i*vigation to feck the paflure of the oppofitc
>ank, I laid hold of that part of the animal which
s loosely pendant behind, arid is formed by a con
:icuation of the vertebrae j in this manntr 1 wai
fafeiy conveyed to a fordable pallage, not without
some delegation horn the frnfe of progress with
out effort on my part, and the exhilarating ap.
proximation of more than problematical deliver
ance. Though, in some .refped, I ref-mbled
the pilot of Guv as, 'yet my companions, unlike
th'i barbarous Phrygian fpetflators, forbore to a
cerbitate the uncouthnefs of embarraiTment by
thf insult of deiifion ; shrieks of complorance
Certified sorrow for my submersion, and fafety was
made more pleasant by the felicitations of fyin
pathy ; as the danger was over, I took no um
b*rge at a little 1 jibility excitcd by tha fcculenc
of my upon winch the cow bad discharged
her gramineous digcition in a very ludicrous abun
dance : About this time the bell summoned us t(
dinner, and as the cutaneous contact of' irrigated
gaimeuts ij neither pleasant nor salubrious, 1 was
easily persuaded by the ladies to divest myfelf ol
mine , Colon:l Marley obligingly accommodates
me with a lc.ofc covering of camblet 5 1 found ii
commodious and more agreeable than the man)
compreliivs ligatures or modern drapery 5 tba
there might be no violation of decorum, 1 too*
care to have the loose robe fattened close befort
with small cylindrical wires, which the dainty fin
gers of the ladies removed" from their own dref?
and inserted into mine at such proper intervals a
to have no aperture tiiac could awaken the iuf
ceptibillty of temperament, or provoke the cachi
nations of levit). '
BOOKS,
Printed and fold by
MATIIEW CAREY,
No. li 3, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. American Muf-um, from its remmencemen,
in Jar.uaiy 1787, to December >791, in ten vo.i
Fri, e, neatly bound ar.d lettered, ftxteen dollars.
This work, which is now con dueled on ar. im
proved plan, containing the befl pieces publijhe* for
and againfl the proceedings of government, will b>
found to contain at leafi as great a variety of poli
tical, agricultural, andmiJctUaneous tfj'ays, as ar.)
everlpublifhed in America, Perhaps in no one tvor
are Jo many valuable document} refpe&mg tie bifio•
ry of tiis country, collected together. JJis cxlcl
itney the P> efidcnt of the United States, has de
clared of it, that " a more uleful literary ptai
has never been undertaken in America, nor on
mo e defcrving of public encouragement." 7b
fubjeription is two dollars and a half per ar.nutn
Gentlemen in the country who wifjj to be fu ;pliet
'with l his work) are requefied to give conm tijjton t
friends in the city to fubjcribe Jor and receive it.
2. Ladies* Pocket Library—containing :—Mi)
More"s EJJ'ays ; Gregory's Legacy ; Lady Pen
nington s advice \ Marchioness of Lambert's ad
vice j Swift's letter to a newly married lady
Mrs. Cbapcne on command of temper j Mores fa
hies for the ladies Price 6f6.
3. Smith's Hi (lory of New-York, fom its fir!
Settlement to the year 1732. To which is annex, d
1 (left.ription cj the country, with a Jhort accoun
f the inhabitants, their religious and political Jlate
ind the confutation of the courts of jvJlice—Pric
1 dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, 1.1.d, profefjor of moral philofopby and logi
'n the Marifchal Cot lege, Aberdeen—Pricc thre
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Critical Re
viewers (vol. 69 .p. 628; fay : " }Ve have fee,
nothing on tbcfe fubjcßs more plain, more perfpicu
ous, cr more genera ly ufeful."
5. Beauties of Poetry, British and American
containing fcleft productions of the mojl eminent Lri
'ifh and American poets. Price four fifths »f a dol
6. filair i> Sermons, containing the whole of tb
three volumes of the Btitifb edition, in two. I'ric
fwo dollars.
7. NeckaSs Treat ife on the importance of reli
gious opinions. Price four fifths of a dollar.
8. Examination oj the objet vations of Lord She f
Held's on American Commerce. Price, on very fin
taper, five eighths of a dollar.
9. c i he ConflitutioM of the several United States
with the federal Constitution, &c. Pr ice fiv
iigh'bs of a JJlar.
10 M'Kngal, an cp-c poem, a new edition i
12mo. Price three eighths of a dollar.
11. American Jefl Book, in two parts, win
wo very neat engravings. Price bound, thre
fifths of a dollar.
12. Garden «<f the Soul, by Bishop Chalcnor
Price, bound plain, ha f a dollar, in calf and let
red three quarters of a dollar, plain \-zdol.
13. The Douay Tranjlation of the vulgate lii
tie, in quarto. Price, elegantly bound and lettered
50/2 —plain, fix dollars.
Said Carey has for file, a large offortment oj
looks, as well at American editions
vhich he w.lt dispose of or. the mofl rcafonable terms
Country gentlemen, who favor him with commands
nay depend upon being Jupplied in the ptofi fatisfac
ory manner. A liberal allowance to si h as pur.
hafe quantities for public libraries, or to fell again,
May 17. 6«n.ia.w.
T O THE PUBMC.
T'HE Subscriber has it its contemplation soon t.
decline his preftnt bufintfs — and having ot
land a considerable quantity of fuperfme fe{,ond ani
lafiic cloths, together with a variety of other arti
les in his way, propofesto fell them at the J'olLwiir,
educed prices- VIZ.
Bejl Superfine navy blue 341,
Ditto, ditto. Scarlet 365.
Common colours fuperfine $zs.
Elajfic firipes 9s.
London buff ar.d white cafjimers 15/6.
Ditto, coloured eio. 151.
Torkjbire do. do. 13/6,
Striped toilenets 14J.
jR arti nets -^s.
Striped Nankeens 3 so.
A variety of waiflcoatfhapes preportionably low
i'ancy buttons and trimn. ings do.
London brjiJilk hose, from 22/6 to 245.
7he above goods have been tnoflly imported froK
■tnt of the Jnft Mercantile bcufet m London, atu
are of an equal quality to any im ported into Ameri
ca } they will be Jold per piece or Jmaller quantit
as may I cji suit thepurchafers j by tb'publics moj
bumblefervant, JOHN SHEfHERD>
No. 3 South fourth-fircet.
Any person difpoled to purchase the whole
as the above stock, may also have on reafonabli
terms his present dwelling house, together wit I
the ftorc, a more eligible situation for bulinefs ii
the tailor's line is not to be found in this city,
The advantage of this bulinefs being so well ell;,
blilhed by the proprietor will be very great, am
from well known fa£3, needs no comment,
A lease of fix jcars may be had of the house.
May 14, 2?iv> tf.
JuJl imper ted in the flip Molly, Captain Pitt i
Jrorn I if ton—
A few Pipes and Quarter C?.fks of
LISBON WIN E,
Far fuptrior in quality to what is rally impor
ted ', anda Jew Bales oj th: very Of: COKKS,
To be Sold by
GEORGE MEA DE,
Who has also forfale, Choice three an i 'e years cL
Bill of Exchange Madeira Vv'ine,
By the Pitt., or Quarter ('■/ It,
LONDON MARKET M J .DEIK A W!KE
five years old by thr pipe, or quarter Calk
Choice oM Siicrry WINE I>y the quartercafl
Mcfs BEEF o a superior qua!:i\ and Inch ' as i.
lit for an Eall India Voya e put uu it
.Jo 1 »
(his city.
Choice firft quality BEEF do.
Do Second do.
BOSTON BEEF equal to anv from tha
country.
Burlington Pork of the firft quality,
and our hundred ani fourteen hhd.> of
Fi.AX SEED, &c. &c.
May 16 aa. w. lm.
PROP O S A L S
For Printing by Stdfripticn,
public" Veppo t a
FROM TII X.
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
o y THE
Government of the I mited States
CON GR E S S,
Commencing with tU pnfent Government, and end
ing with the clofc of the Sejisn of May 179-.!.
1111S work is intended to be printed I 1 one
volume octavo, eflimated to contain between five
and lix hundred pages, and will be delivered to
fubferibers in bos,ds at One Collar and a half.
A complete colleflion of the Reports into a
convenient and portable volume lias been fug
gefied to the publifliers by several Members of
Congrcfs and other gentlemen, and thry are now
determined to proceed 011 with the work, provi
ded a competent number of fubferibers appear
to pationize thi undertaking.
Subscriptions are received by CHJLDS and
SWAINE, the publifliers, No. 209, Market
llreet, Philadelphia, and by the principal book,
fellers in the United States.
May 24.
THIS DAY ARE PUBLISHED,
[In Octavo—Price 2/9.
T II E
LAWS of tie United States,
Pis/ed at the
First Seflion of the Sccond Congrcfs.
PUBLISHED BT AUTHORITY.
To which are added the Ratifications of the
Amendments to the Constitution, by the several
ratifying Slates; the Armillice between the Uni
ted States and Gieat-Britain ; and the Treaty of
Peace and Friendlhip with the Cherokees, which,
w'nli thofein the other octavo volume completes
all the exifling treaties.
Philadelphia, printed by GUILDS & S WAINE,
Printers of the Laws of the United States, and
fold by them, at their ojjice, No. 209, Market-
Street ; also by the principal Bookjellcrs in the.
city.
* # * The Laws are sewed in blue paper, and
are intended to be bound up with tliofi: of the
next feflion, lo as to make one volume, com
piilingall the Laws palled by the Second Con-
C,reffi, when a complete Index will be added fur
both feilions.
The LAWS of the
Three Scfiions of the First Congrcfs,
With a complete Index, in one volume otlavo,
may be had as above.
Philadelphia, May 17th, 1792.
A FARM FOR SALE.
be fold cheap for cash, a Farm Jituated on tie
Banks, and on the north Jide of the river R,,i 1-
ui>! in itl slate of Neio-Jefey ; eight miles from the
dry ps Niw-Brunfwie, and one from the town of
Bound Bi eot, containing 191 aces, and 40 acres
about a vide diflant apportioned to it far ivoodlar.d:
on this farm hat tart y been creSlcd a neilt ai d
convenient b-ufe 2ii by 34 feet neatly fnijhrd,
built on a cellar the dimenflous of the lloufc, -will*
a kiti hen forming a -wing 24 by iS feet completed :
50 acres of it being meadow renders this place tru
ly valuable ; the hea'tly airy and pleafar.t ftuatioit
makes it an agreeable Jc.it for a gentleman : the
meadow and fertility of the foil, an oljeE} for he
farmer, (J its being surrounded by the mofi •wealthy
and opulent farmers tn the ftatc, a very eligible
ftana for afiore. The ride to and from Brunjwic
on either fide of the river, is delightful : for the
price apply to the editor of the National Gazette.
6w law.
%* For faU at this Office, Sermons by
the Rev'd Dr. William Linn, of N. York.
Price 5/7 1-2.
PRINTED JIY
C H I L D S AND SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE, NO. 209, HI G H-fcT UE E T
NEAR FJFTH-STREET,
fHILASEI-PHJA.