\
Vol. I.
Forte Nat ional Gazette.
Mr. FrenEau,
Please giv& the following a place in youi
National Gazette, and obi ge aeonitant
reader.
1 To the Jndcpenutta EleSort c ile Covnty oj
Montgomery.
Frißnds and Fellow.Citlzens,
YOU are now about to be cabled t-pon,
to exertife one of your mult iacred
constitutional privileges ; that or electing
your own i iprefentatives in ( ongreis, or
to give it up to a set of as ignorant arbitra
ry nabobs, as ever disgraced a country-
Can you, my fellow citizen 3, view with
calmnefa their late proceedings ar cour.ty
and toarnfbip meetings, without expref-
Gng your disapprobation and abhorrence
thereof? The firlt county meeting at
Tyfon's, (Edward Shipperi jun. in the
chair) was called in a clandeitine manner
by private letters directed to none but the
well-born "junto ; they, indeed, attempt
ed to seduce your honest i.nator to join
tliem in their diabolical proceedings, but
he is too good a friend to the rights of
man, to do any thing that has a tendency,
to destroy the right of free elections.—
This meeting cnnfilted of the chairman,
the recorder of the county> and his clerk,
Mr. Wh....r, their magpye Secretary,
and three of their laquies, These few
would-be-nabobs hatched the infamous
plan of recommending township meetings
to ele£t committees to meet at Tyfon't
the 20th of August, to chufc conferree's
to meet at Lancaster, to ele<£t elc£tors and
fix a ticket for Reprefentaiives in the
Corgrtfs c-f the United State?. Some
few individuals in different townlhipi thai
were tinder the influence of the nabobs or
t eir tools, met, & fen t forward committees
some cf which were voted b.y thri-e persOns
only; eleven committees thus chosen, met,
(out of 38 which the county carditis of,
Jon?than Roberts in the chair) and voted
as if they were a majority, conferrees to
go to Lancaster, and recommended town,
fliip meeting* on the 22d, to meet at their
refpedtive places of choosing township of
ficers, there to chufe three persons to at
tend a general county meetings to be held
at John Wentz'sthe 29th, to fix a ticket
for representatives in assembly tic. for
iaid county, at the ensuing election.
Can you, my fellow citizens, fuffer
' yourftlves to be duped and led by the nofc
by such a set of wou'd bee's, the- profcll
tools of yourlo'rdly and arbitrary Pro-- yr
lit me ask you, do you mean to resign
your liberties into the hands of three base
usurpers, and thereby establish ariltocracy,
or do you mean to hand down to pofleritv
the invaluable privileges which God and
nature have given you, inviolate : If the
latter, unite as a band of bsoihers, to de
feat th; wicked machinations of this felf
created junto, and by every confutations!
ificans in your power, counteract, and en
p'ofethem in the light they deserve. I
\;V. ild ask ymi where some of these well
born, fkn'.ked, from the year 177610 1780?
wer£ they seen at county meetings form
ing committeestofave the liberties of their
'country, and the forces of an infnlt
-1 »ng ;...d victorious foe I No ! They were
fecictly exulting at their success, and e:;
claiming againit these firm patriots, who
had fpiril to serve their country faithfully.
T\ nt now with the molt confun mate im
pudence they co • e forward and tell you
as plain as language can exptefs, that ycu,
.la r.oi 11.010 hotv to make use of your liberties
you rr.ujl andJhall five •will even compel you.
fay they, to) delegate them to us. And will
yon my friends and fellow citizens fuffer
yourselves to be duped and d'itaterf toby
this junto of felf created, ariltocratical 11a
fe>bs,or will you with manly firmnefr,
ihewthem at the county meetings, and
at the enluing eledtion that you are ce
t'ermined to be free ?
AN Independent Farmer.
Montgomery County S~t>, jo, 1*92
By P. FRENEAU: PuMijked Wednesdays Saturdays, at Tiirei; Dollars per annum. ■
S A r U R D A Y, September 15, 1792.
[Frc:?!,he Virginia Gazette.]
To Mr. HENRY BANKS.
Sir,
IN a free country, c-ery citizen fharc>
»' t!.e f.on an i the we'l being of the
govern Kent and is at liberty to retnonftrate
1 :«>:'{( ' t :>!>lic ads as are injurious to
he interests of the people—dangerous to
. !n-ir liberties—or derogatory to the ho
nour of the nation. In tlie character of a
•nan wlio is anxious fir the profp<*rity of
his country you have adlreiTed your fellow
citizens on an important occasion* -pre
dided the fatal cor.feqtienees of some ads
nf the general government—and itepped
forth as tie champion of American liberty
"'d happiness. In theexercife of this right
you fliotrd be careful- that you do not in
ure tlie caufeyou espouse. There may
jtf men in Virginia as weli aa myfelf, who
ire citizens, and as yet flran ;ers tc
ts conditution ; you (hould therefore sup.
)ort your aflertions by mentioning fads,
ir illulliate them by argument. To con
once me of the Heredity of reviling ou:
:onftitution you mult (hew in what refpedl
)ur present system of govern.nent is not
:ongeni.il with republican principles— vot;
milt convince ine that we are deprived oi
hat inestimable blessing a free reprelerita
ion—affei t Ons alone will not do it. The
'oice of the people ought ever to be the
foice of a tree government ; when this ia
lot the cale liberty is endangered —
By a numerous and an equal repreferitati-
M) alone, the evil can be rectified, and it
t exilts, our Hate constitution ought, a.id
[ trult, will be changed.
I am equally alarmed with yours if, at
he proceedings of the fedeial govern
nciit ; and here, I fear; neither the" vo oc
at the people s at ended to, or'their inter
.'ts consulted. i. e rulers appear to me
o poff fs a quite different iuierelt from
hat of the people; if this be- the cafe,
and 1 fear ] am not deceived) tyranny
nuft inevitably ensue. The evils wc fuf
:er from the general government, have be
■ome insupportable, an excise is laid, an in
quitous and oppreihve ' • ; oppressive,
Decaufe it is a tax on labou. j and iniqui
:ous, because it is a partial one ; a fund
ngfyftem is eftablilhed,calculated to en
ich a few fpeculatore 011 the small pit
ance of the l'oldier, who had a right to
xped J otn Congress some sympathy, and
rom whose fijppofed integrity he could
jpprehend no wrong. An assumption of
:ne (Lite debts 11;; 3 taken place, an ui just
aw, the retrionflrance of the Virginia
Assembly v.'iii evince. Liberty dwells not
11 tliit country, where an excise is fuffcr
td ; where a national debt is looked upon
ts a national blessing,—and where the lib
*rty of v, press is reltrided ; our taxes
iave now beeotne btvrthenfome and render
ed perpetual ; uotwithftanding tlu'3, were
the causes wh.rh produced them jult, there
is too much virtue in Americans to com
plain : submission, however, to wicked
and uiijufl laws, does not prove r. right to
pah. them , of two„evilsit is molt advilea
ble to choose the lealt. Submiffiori i:
fometirnes a lesser evil than oppo)iti< n ;
but when our submission is inconfiltent
with the liberty and interest of the coun
try, our duty commands us to oppose.
In fitch a situation, the coridud of a peo
ple ought to be influenced by a regard
lor their frtedorg and happiness.' The
i-xperience of evtry country clearly de
mon Urates, that arbitrary power once
eftabliflfcd, even over the bravelt of nations
they quickly degenerate into mean and
wretched Haves.
AMERICAN US.
*Stt National Gazette, No. Ba.
A T a G.neral Meeting of the inliabi-
J_ ji. tants of Montgomery county, agree
able to public notice given, at the house
of Edward Parker, l'ti k-iomin creek) 011
Saturday the i'th of September 1793,
John Richards. Elq in the chair, alter
due deliberation and debate the following
ref.dves were agreed to and ordered to be
publifeed, viz
11', i hat in the opinion of tills meeting
the i habitant:; of the county who formed
a aifinjv :t Archibald Dsrrah's tavern,
on the 3 Gt .h day of lair month, Benjamin
Rittc'-.ihou!., Ef(j in the chair, acted with
a fpiri: becoming free citizens, in cenfu>-
the proeej.l :'.;", «,fa fr:r,.-r meeting)
held a i joiepli TyVon'a the 20 i why of fail!
month, jona.iian Rober*s v Etq, in tile
ciuir ; because they were or an alarming
nature, and co::dttite'd by a meeting t.io
tiltri an'.! partial for "any important bufinefi.
_ That tjis procct lings of the afore
aid meeting, which were read to us, were
jropir and iKccffary to warn the inhabit
ants of tii: co nty again ft dangerous
tncroac'.imertta made upon their rights as
■ eemen, by the aforcfaid t'.i.i and pirtial
neetL.g, who njfumid to thetr.felves the
>rivilege of chafing conferee! to meet a
tommittee of-conference at Lttncafter, and
inderto -k to publish their proceedings as
:n art ot the freemen of the county, be
ore thcyobtainedtheconfent of a majority
there ,f, or tv. n a refpeciahle meeting ol
lie inhabitants, as to numbers.
3d. i iiat in the opinion of this meet'
ng no conferees'ought to be chosen, but
1 nominal ion of members for Con<*refs.
ind eleflors ft r a President and Vice-Pre
(ident ot the United States, be entered in
o immediately .and publifhe'd for the confi.
lerr ion of the inhabitants of the county
The following names were then agreed
o for Repr fentatives in Congress, viz.
Pete; Muhlenberg, Charles Thompson,
Wilha-i Findley, I' A. Muhlenberg, Ah
"•' '' - -■' ■■!, Ji.jici Rofi, o':
"n, j.i.Kifi Hutehinfon, Daniel Heiitcr.
fohn Siniley, Jared lugerfol, John W
Ivittera, William Mont comer v, Marx
Wilcox.
hleciors for the President and Vice Pre
fident ofthe United States.
1 homas M' Keaa, Samuel Potts; Da
:id Rittenhoufe, Henry Miller JOIII
Irndt, John Montgomery, Betijamii
Ittteuhoufe, Alexander Addifon, Wil
iain A. Atlee, Samuel Miles, Ger. Win
• oop, Thomas Proftbr, Jofepli Heiller
Jon. B. Smith, George Wood, Jun.
By order of the meeting,
JOHN RICHARD j, Chairman'
■\tfett. JOHN CAUFFMAN, Sec.
The ft hr.i-'ng y'.t'Jrfs ivas circulated nmoni
the troops of France from ihs Prinas n,
Condi and D' Artois ; imvitinv them t
quii the finndard of ths National AtTcnlly
aodjoin th' emigrated French trocp> in the
Netherlands.
BRA\ E Soldieis ! The moment '
low arrived when the king's trqops, faith
11J to God and to the path they have vo
untarily taken to obey no one except tin
<ing, may, guided by honor, fly to t?»*
the French p inces, ar.' ; . qui
:hat of those rebels, who haveduring thrci
pears held your king a captive, who havt
,-overed France with crimes and ruins
ivlvo have rendered *the French name odi
nns to ail Lurope, and have fhuken yon 1
h delay. Recover the chara£ler of French
fulditrs, formerly so dreaded by our ene
micr, and now vilified and despised finci
they have forfaken the paths' of honor.
Hearken, dear comrades 1 .to the vuice ol
your chief;, to ti;e vo:er of vfiitr kind's
brothers, to the voice of that Conde, wh;
has covered you with gloty at Landevort,
an<i at Frideberg—to the voice of Mar
fnal le Broglie, whom you used to cail
our father, the con"., tor of Siitderhen
fen and Berghem, who invites you to join
him 1:1 retrieving rhe French 1.e.,,!,:, if
ed by your error (lilt more than by (};4
crimes of your feducern.
His Apoftol'c majesty the king of Hun-
Miy and Bohemia, gm> you leave to come
-Mums. 92.
into his territories. Your arras (hall (e
ient to me, and I will again deliver them
to you in your refpetfive cantonments.
, u ;l & wilder French general', un
der the brothtrs of your king, to whom
alone during the king's imprifonnient, you
owe fealty and obedience. You (I,all re
ce.ve the ia-ne pay that you had in Franc
you w i r c
•T ' your UpWPS ••• and* deliver
his tyrant ...i re-cliahi.M, the
religion of your ancrftprs.
Already the regiments of Herchiay,
Saxe, and iloyal Alleraande, have set you
the example. Came, ifly cbrrradrs ! .nd
rem mbcr that i have acted with you dur
ing the seven ye .ra war. lam k .own to
many among you, and vhey know
sm incapable of deceiving the-r. H t
r ';'PPy Ihould Ibe to prtfetv you wiJi
Henry IV'i plume of feathers !
(Signed Le Marquis dS la Queuil
lik, Marechal dts Camps, and of the
armies of the King and Adjutant Ge
neral to Monfcigoeur Count d'Axtois
CommifTary for the Princes and t 1 c
French nobility in the Low Countries.
June
P S I approve the contents of of the
nrefent address, and acknowledge no o
ther as coming ft om me. By order of
the Pi'ir:ces.
London, July i 6. To fuffer Poland to
he over-vim and reduced to a (kte of the
moil ahjedt depend-, nee on Rufiu, 0 - a
r.ew partition of it by its three powerful
neighbours, is contrary to all that has ever
y-et been contended for by the men of the
.ward on the b:,lance of power ; to foffer
At>(*na to gam any m of ter i or;
it tiie expense of France, is equally con
trary to the fame system ; .-.nd in aiding
:he views of Auilria, or conniving at th./c
i>f Russia, Prussia leems to be adting e
qually againit her own inteceft as forr.i-rlr
un.iefllood, and to be strengthening the
hands of a rival.
The probable result of these extraordi
nary comb-nations will be, either tha the
designs of the three gre;* military powers,
now apparently acting in concert, wdl be
fruflated by their mutual j-aloufiet, and
the recurrence of Prussia, to former princi- ,
pies of ast ion ; or that the pther powers
of Europe, particularly Great-Britain and
Spain who cannot f e with indifference a
ny material change in the political divifi \
of Europe, will interpose with their media
lion, and put an end to the mischievous ca
rter of ambition and bloodshed.
Aniinmenfe traift of land fituatcd in
Pcnnfyh-ania, has lately been fold by Mr.
Moi l S,' of Philadelphia, partly r, Hol
land a-rd partly in Engl., ,d. Mr. Pulten
-y, ol Piccadilly, ha 3 speculated in this
. od to the amount of nearly too'oo 1 ar„J
it is his plan to invite settlers to" live upon
it, rent free, for five year ; f.;„- wlrt'ch term
he expedts it will be worth their while to
put it into a state of cultivation ; and th.'.t
they will afterwards be induced to make'
purchases at an a<K inccd.pnc-.-, by railing
the money on mortgag- and ctherwife,
rather than emit it.
It appear.: to have been a misftatemei.t
in the public pints', which repreffnte-d
that the States General had Signified a dis
position to join the cause of Auilria and
Prussia again ft France, and that in this
the province of Holland flood molt for
ward : on the contrary, the prevailing
politics of that province are more difaf
fefted towards the ex'.ting government
of tne state.;, tiian those of any other. '
Hence we may conclude, that tiie wish
ot"that quarter wort .I rati, -r bein favour
of the French, however, the fait seems to
be, that tlie ftadthchftr and l;b friends
have to ceftgn to concern themselves at
til Pin the affair. of France, fcnt unite in
feniimeti't with England, and prefervc a
flrict and honot reutrality; at ihe
i«me t me, tins co-n 1 net \, ' i best an -
fv-er the pttrpofe of their own internal'politic?, as, tclleep the difaffe&ed in Hol
land in awe, requires all the vigilance or
government.
The Queen (f France, though at the
tve of every misfortune, which file has not
already experienced, is as gtntle arxl pati
t-r>t as ever : she docs not allow a sigh to
tica efrom Iter fwoln heart A few days
back, as lict' Miijeity was con veiling at one
ot the palace with one of the
ladies in could
Co: baniftl from her, a m'ol) fathered
Tour.d, and utrcrcd
injurious to the Unfortunate, ilfuted prir.-
cess ; ihe queen, without appearing affect
ed, i cntly pulhed the fhuUer to, and
continued the conversation as before; the
ladies unable to a trait of fueh hero
iimj ipelted into tears.
Her m<tjelly 1 tely presented her pidlure
to a f ivoiirite lady ; (he is 1 prefentcd in
it with the alterations canfed by her mif
fortunes ; the colour of her hair is chang
ed j under the portrait is this true, though
lingular i'a
Henohie." Scrro-w has mailt mc grey.
The king, who knows his fate, waits
for it unmoved } but he is wretched on ac
count of his royal consort and lovely
children. His majesty was blooded on
ThurfJay.
The Dauphin's little countenance has
a great alteration too ; he was
accuflomed to run about , now the fight
of p;kts deters him from .that exercise so
tieceffaiy for his health, snd so natural to
a child of his tender years.
WARSAW, June 9.
OUR court has demanded the mediation
die king of IVuffia and the king of Hun
gary, with the Ruffian court, in behalf of
Poland, but without effect ; both courts
having absolutely refufed to take any part
in such a^tep—on the contrary, they have
both given their advice u> she Polilh repub
lic to abandon its new constitution, and as
semble a diet for the purpose of re-adopt
ing tile old constitution, being the only
means (fay they) now left to conciliate the
J:'jrbprefs,and prevent the evils that threaten
its. We can promise ourselves noth'tng
from the court of Vienna, conlidering the
ancient connection between them and pruf
fja. Being thus left to corfelves and our
o.va flrength, depending upon the justice
of our cause, the utmost energy of the na
tion will be exerted, as our motives are
the purest that can inspire the human
bread.
BRUSSELS, June 24-
The early fuccefles of the Ailftrian arms,
put our troops in high lpirits, but within a
few days events h;>Ve confiderabiy changed,
and the tide o? fortune seems to have turn
ed in favour of the French. It was more
to the want of discipline among the French
troops than cowardice, that their misfor
tunes on the 29th and 30th of April are t<
be attributed. Sfiice subordination hr.
been established amongst [hem, and confi
dence in their generals has taken place, it i>
viiible that their manner of fighting has beei:
wholly changed. On the 17th of June a
valt body of them entered our territorie
Oil the fide of Flanders, and 011 the km
day poflefled thtmfelves of Menin and
Ypres, where were garriloned fonie Tyro
lefe chafl'eurs, who retired at their ap
proach, so that both places were gainec;
without a fiiot.
When Ankarftrom was just about to re
ceive the coup de grace after his throe Hog
gings, and after his right hand was cut otr,
he exerted all his remaining flrength, and
addressing himft If to the furronnding mul
titude, he (hid, " I now touch the minute
of deliverance, and of everUftitig reward.
I rejoice in my deed—l have rescued my
country from a tyrant by the only mean
left to slaves —X know that you will blel"-
me for the ast, anil my memory will be fa
ored in Sweden. Let your gratitude to me
be (hewn in kindnel- to my ch Idren."
The ilf-fated kingdom of Poland feenr
(leflined at all times to fate the rapacious
cruelty of its neighbours, and to experience
a depredation unprovoked by any offence.
It has fcarce'y yet recovered from the very
fyecies of oppreflion which it ex
perienced in tile year 1770, from Prufiia.
its present fa'ithlefs ally. Every town and
of Poland was at that time compel
led ta furniih a certain number of marri
ageable girls, with houleirold neceflaries,
and to each three ducats of gold as a por
tion. These wretched brides were sent to
flock the PrufTian dominions. Obliged to
abandon their parents, their country, their
friend?, and their religion, .they were trans
ported to an unknown country, married to
men whom they never saw, and doomed to
live in mutual hatred with a people, whose
language they could not underiland !
The number of Ruffians who have enter
ed the l olilh territory augments every day,
as frelh detachments are continually sent
for that ferv ice. Itiij, 110 doubt, the in
tentions of the Emppefs to overrun the
country by the numbet of her troops. The
Polilh anuy, which at prelent amounts to
ioo,ooc effective men, keep close together ;
they have flittered nothing by deferticti ;
the citizens ami soldiers all display the fame
ardour and unanimity. Patriotic gifts pour
in from every quarter.
The regent of Sweden, though he ha
declined taking an elective part in the
combination againlt France, has not yet
thought it prudent, in cijifequence of the
treaty entered iiKo between the F.mprefs
and die late king, formally to acknowledge
the French conftitutiou. The order Puii
remains not to receive the French flag/ami
the envoy of Fiance has not been yet pub
lickiy prefenttd.
PARIS, July i 7.
M. La Fayette has, by his dep 1r; nre fron:
Paris, continued the good Opinion which
the true friend ; of the constitution enter
tain of him, for though they acknowledge
the necelKty of a ftroug step, tiiey did 110:
admire the rrieafuftf of a Jeneral' ; dictating
to the legislative body. IT• s continuance
in Paris, even without followers, would
have been con.'idered as an attempt to inti
midate, from, the influence which he had
over tile naiio 1.11 guard, and therefore his
return to the army is aufpicimis to tile true
march of the co iiiitution. The Allembly
will now deliberate 011 his pfopolititlit,
without being overawed, and it is to be ho
ped that such a check will be given to the
republican societies as w ill reliore vigor and
tone to government.
The conduct of the king on the aotli
June has done more to invigorate the con
ltitution rii.m all the acts of rhe present le
giilature put together. It pronounced him
to be truly animated by the principles oi
tiie new fyitem, and sincerely anxious for
its eitabliiimient. For if he had been deii
roil., oi confirming anil making nianifelt al
the afi'ertioii . of the emigrant French, anc
of the united courts, he would have yield
ed to the torrent that alia.led him—he
would, when called upon by an armed b 11
ditti, have granted ali that they demandec
—withdrawn his veto —recalled the Jacobir
nilniiters —and complied with every other
mandate. This would have been the true
political course for his majelty to have pur
l'ued, if he had wilhed to declare to ail Eu
rope that he was 110 c free, an.l that in se
cret he lighed lor the return of the ancient
urder of things.
Inltead of this he manfully supported hi;
royal dignity—refilled the unconltitntional
demand—and in thus maintaining his own
branch of the new constitution, pronoun
ced in the inoit unequivocal tone, his lovs
and respect for ttie whole.
It is so conlidered by every fenliblsfrient'
to the new constitution; and acco dinglj
declarations from all quarters are Comioc
up to the Atltmbly. The petition of the
active citizens of saris is already sighed bj
many thousands, and there is 110 doubt bui
the emigrants will be deprefi'ed as much a
the Jacobins, who have been hitherto thei!
b.*lt friends.
It would be wrontr, however, to imagine
that the truefriends of the constitution wifr
to extirpate the clubs. No such thing i:
meant. They know their obligations ti
the clubs ; they know that thry have beer
the great foui ce of national knowledge :
for in the societies, the acts of the Aflembh
were made a series of political iriltruction
beginning with the declaration of the right:
of man, and following tile course rf the na
tional proceedings, every principle was ex
plained, every decree was promulgated
and men who could not read were fount
to lillen, and learn their lbcial rights, anc
their duties. The public liund, thus gene
rally illuminated by these societies, was a
gain exprclled by the fame organ—and thu
the irreliltible voice of the nation resound
ed from all parts of tile iuimenfe empire
with the velocity of an electrical explosion
In 1 ngland they would be astonished at the
rapid I'enfe of the people here on every
question, for even to this clay they have no
effectual means of making certainly knowr
ro the people of Great-Britain the statute:
by which they are to be bound. Poor illi
terate perfbn:, though they are left to
grope out their duties without light 01
guide, are not to be exctii'ed committing
any of the rrefpafles from ignorance, altho'
rt.afon could 110 c warn them on the subject.
for alnioft all the race of English revenue pe
nalties, mult be abandoned by reason. But
here it is not poiiibie for a man to be igno
rant of any law, and 10 these societies a>
much as to the means eftabiifhed by the
constitution, they are indebted for this
great good. ' To maintain these social con
nexioiu is therefore the delire of everj
man ; it is only wished that the hot and
inflammatory fpiriis "may be taught that
they shall not with impunity turn them in
.o armed corporations, and excite them to
rife up against the autnorities conltituted
oy law.
At no moment since the dccifion of the great
Ijueftiori, whether France should he an heredita
ry monarchy or a republic, has the public mind
been so convulfrd as now. The Jacoliins have
utterly, and 1 dread nally, ftifled the voice of all
conllitutional men ; and a total fulpenfion in pub
lic office has, of course, taken place. Initead of
Hemming the torrent, which the rebels on the
frontiers aie jult preparing to bear down upon
their devoted country,thole hot and intemperate
men are employed only in denunciations, in inc n
diary motions, and in febemo wf vengeance and
blood,
PHILADELPHIA.
September 15, 1792.
The Chrjftian Indian' :ingregation who
were fettled near the . quehannah, an'i
afterwards at MuUtingun. after fuffering
much nneafinefs of mind fro : the jealoufie
and suspicions of the various. tions of wild
Indians in the vicinity of, a, . rt enmity
with, the United States, agn ;d in April
last to remove to Retrench . .ver, which
empties itfeif above Detroit it: o Lake Su
Clair. By accounts from this religious
congregation (who, in refpeft to war are
Quakers in principle) their troubles have
been chiefly owing to a demand made up
on them by the wild Indians to become a
! party in the general league again!! the Uni
ted States, in which they have-deciared they
will nor join, or have any thing to do.
" The Indian nations favs an authentic
narrative from that quarter) were never so
unan mous i;i all their wars before ; jevevv
one that has a brown ikiu will alliil to de
fend his country,ajjd every Indian is forced
to appear whenever it comes to a battle.
When the i'everal hostile nations of Indi
ans inlilUd upon the Christian Indians join
ing t!iein in war, colonel Joseph Brandt,
a Moiiawk, made the following address to
the council : " Why (hould we force the
believing Indians to join in the war ?—there
are even enough without them, who do it
willingly—What ! could a handful of be
lieving Indians help us much in war ?— 1
they have iometn ng else wherewith they
are occupied, of which we know nothing.
1 hey have the word of God, and will live
and do according to Lhat : let them ail
thereby, and do not disturb them ; they are |
in the right way, and have chosen the bet-j
ter part : it is to be wiflied that we all to
gether would make this our chief concern.
Look out a place for them where they can
be for themfclves—the time may come that
we ihall be in diltrefs, and lhail not know
whither we ltia.ll bring our wives and chil
dren in fafety. If the believing Indians
have alafe place, we can in time of need
take ourretuge with them ; they would at
lealt leave a placefor our women and chil
dren near them, where they could plant
and preserve their lives."
The two grand canals which are to con
nect the Delaware, Sehuylkill and Sufque
hannah together, will be begun this tail.
These canals will furnifh employment for
several years to many hundred labourers.
They will double the value of all the lands
on those rivers in Pennsylvania. They will
encreafe the commerce and wealth of the
city of Philadelphia ; and laffly, they will
encreafe thfc population of this ffate, by
giving to the utpport of human beings the
immense quantity of provilions which are
now contained in feeding waggon-horses.
The small-pox by some unknown means
having been introduced into Boston, and its
found impodible to be arreted, the
inhabitants have agreed upon a general in
oculation : in consequence of this deter
mination upwards of eight thoufaild per
rons were Inoculated the latter end of
August and beginning of September.
The latell advices from Hifpaniola con
firm the former accounts of a treaty of
peace having taken piace between the
whites and the mulattoes. The negroes,
however, (fill continued in open rebellion,
particularly on the north lide of the island,
and seemed determined never to be redu
ced tc their former (fate of fubjeifion. A
small fort had been (formed by them near
Atix Cayes, and the garrison put to the
sword, except a very few who had the good
fortune to escape.
On Saturday last arrived here the ship
Canton,capt. M'Kee,from Newry, with 260
pailengers, all in good health.—This (hip
had 61 days paflage, during which two chil
dren died and two were born.—Also ar
rived, the fliip Alexander, from Ki'lybegs,
with 257 pailengers : this ship had 52 days
paflage.
Extract from Mr. Paine's letter to Lord
Onflow (dated June 21) on his attempting
to influence the county of Surrey to address
tke king, and exprels their approbation of
the late proclamation to suppress fcditious
writings, &c.
" When it was reported in the Englifli
newspapers, some Ihort time since, that the
Empress of Ruflia, had given to one of her
minions a large trafl of country, and seve
ral thousand peasants as property, it very
jullly provoked indignation and abhorrence
in those who heard it. But if we compare
[ the mode praffifed in England, with that
which appears to us-fo abhorrent in Ruliia,
it wilt be found to amount to very near
the fame thing ; —for example—
" As the whole of the revenue in England
is drawn by taxes from the pockets of the
people, rhofe things called gifes and grants,
(of which kind are all pendons and sine
cure places) nre paid out of that flock.
The difference, therefore, between the
two modes is, that in England the money
is collected by the government and then
given to the pensioner, and in Ruflia he is
left to call lor it himlelf. The smallest
film which thepooreft family in a county
so near London as Surrey, can be fuppoftd
rio payaunudllf oi •, is not less than
five pounds ; and as your sinecure of onrf
thouland, and pension of three thonfand per
artnum, are made up of taxes paid by eight
hundred finch poor families, it comes to the
lame thing as if the eight hundred families
had been given to you, as in Ruflia, and
you had collected the money on your own
account. Were you to fay that you are not
quartered particularly on the 4 people of Sur
rey, but on the nat.on at large, the objec
tion would amount to nothing ; for as there
are more pensioners then counties, every
one may be conlidered as quartered on that
in which he lives.
What honor or happinefis yoti can derive
from being the principal pauper* of the
neighbourhood, and occasioning a greater
expence than the poor, the aged, and the
infirm, for ten miles round you, I leave you
to enjoy. At the fame time I can fee that
it is no wonder you should be Itrenuous in
fuppreiEnc; a book which itrikesat the root
of tliofe abuses. No wonder that you (iioulJ
be again!! Reforms, against the freedom of
the P refit, and the Right of investigation.
To you and to others of your description,
these are dreadful things : but you Ihould
also conlider.that the motives which prompt
you to ad, ought, by refle&ioii to compel
you to be. lile»t„" ' i
* LorA Ovjlou) is a Redcftambrr-lordat a tl: n~
[and a year, and a peafimer at 3000/. ajear?nort.
Concise view of the 1110't material foreign
intelligence by the Adriana, William
Peun, .and other veflets lately arrived
from Europe at this port and New-York.
The F.leftor of Saxony has done his ut
niolt to prevent the kings of Prussia and
Austria from intermeddling in the affairs of
Poland, but without success ; a league
having been entered into between , Ruflin,
Pruflia.and Anltria,, whereby they engage
by a union of force to take poiTefiion of
Poland, form it into four partitions, three
of which to be appropriated refpeflively to
those three powers, and the fourth to be
given to hit present majesty. and after hi#
death to his nephew, under the title of an
hereditary Duchy.—The French army hav
ing taken several places in the Austrian
Low Countries, had evacuated them and
retreated to the frontier line, where they
remained 011 the defenfive, which it was
thought would be the future complexion
of the war on the part of France.—The
queen of Portugal had not yet received any
permanent benefit from the endeavors of
do&or Willis, but remained, as usual, very
much shattered in her intellects, and only
rational 011 particular fubjefts. —Peace had
been made between lord Cornwallis and
Tipp >0 Saib, the latter having furrendcred
one half of his territories for the preserva
tion of the other, and given his two funi
as hoilages for rhe performance of the con
ditions 011 his part. —On the 10th of July a
rattle was fought between a body of the
Poiifh and Ruilian forces. The Latter were
obliged to retire with the loss of 1 jo men
left dead on the field On the nth there
was another engagement, in which the Po
landers were fin rounded by the Rullians,
but made a retreat by dint of their artillery, with
so r.e loss, although great numbers were slain on
the Ruffian fide by the well direfled lire of tho
artillery.—The k : ng of England had declined
mediating with the powers on the continent
leagued against France, but protnifed for his own
part to observe the ftrifteft neutrality.—lt was
thought not improbable that the Marquis de la
Fayettr would march his forces immediately to
Paris, and that he would either there rcfign the
command, or declare himfelf, at their head, the
enemy of the late legislative proceedings : it
was thought by many that he had much too soon
declared himfelf the enemy of clubs.—lt was
said that Holland had determined to take part in
the war against Fiance, in concert with Austria
and Prufii i: the profpefl of anarchy in Paris had
induced the province of Holland to this resolu
tion, w ich it was feared by the frie ds of the
Frcnch cause would extend to the other provin
ces of the Dutch Netherlands: the defenfive
plan, however, which the French have since a
dopted, was not then known : this alteration in
the Frcnch war system may therefore prevent
the intended alliance.—The Emprelit of Ruffi»
had formally discharged all Frenchmen from liejr
dominions, not looking upon her goveinnu nt-or
heiftlflafe while one of that nation remai eti ie
her territories.---A peace had been con -ded
upon between the Swedes and Algerir. by
which is secured to the Swedilb comsie
free navigation of the Mediteirar.ean.- The \
moil impartial English papers state the success of
the British arms in the Eafi Indies to have been
brilliant and decisive, but the advantages greatly
over-rated: Tippoohas indeed surrendered half
his doinininions to save the other half, but tney
are said to be generally barrep and mountainous,
and his whole yearly revenue not to excec i two
millions and an half (lcrling annujdly.- -1 ?
French emigrants at Coblence had publiflied an
appeal, in which they invite all persons of cha
racter to contribute in proportion to their fortunft
and their honour to the ie—flablifhment of the
French monarchy.-—The celebration of the
fourteenihof July at Paris, pal Ted over without
any dangerous corifcquenCes, as had been uppre*
hendrdby ihe atiflocrats and fanatics; " and all
would be peifctl quiet in France (fays one of
their gazettes) \yefc ii not for the diabolical con
spiracy of the despotic powers, thole friends of
infamy, of raping, and of blood, who make wars
abroad to be predatory with taxes at home !"-—
Lord CofhV.jllis, having concluded the w#r inIndia, was, by the last account, prepurihg to
proceed to Bengal, from whence he was to em
bark for England with all poflible expedition ;
to be Succeeded in chief command by general
Abercrombie.— lnflead of India flock fifing in
London at the news of peace with Tippooj it im
mediately .ell 6 per cent. The nation had let
their hearts upon Setingapatam, and peace being
made withou this impoitant capture, bicd a Se
cret difgufi: monied men began to fee that the
principal advantage of the peace "■tin Tippoo
was the getting nd of an impolitic war: the
whole advantages were grratlv inadequate to the
expenfc; hence the fall of India flock.---The
present alpetft of Europe was thought to be such
as «o confound all reafoningon any of tile prin
ciples formerly admitted as axioms in politics :
" to futf-v Poland to be overrun and reduced to
a (late of the molt abject dependence on Riillia,
or a new partition of it by its three powerful
Jieighbours, is contrary to all that has ever yet
been contended for by the pen or the (word on
the balance of power; to fuller Auflria to gain
any accefuon of territory at the expence of
fiance, is equally contrary to the fame fyflem ;
and in aiding the views of Aullna, or conniving
at those of Kuliia, Prullia seems to be acting
equally againfl her cwn interefl, as formerly un
deiliood, and to be (lengthening ihe hands o' a
rival." The probable rcluh ot thole extraor
dinary combinations, it was thought, would be,
either that the deligus of the great unlit ry pow
ers, now app rently a£ling in conceit, would be
frufliuted by thei mutual jealcufies, and the re
currence of Pruflia to former principles of acti
on - t or that the other powers of Eutope, prll -
culaily Great Biitainand Spain, who canno lec
wuh indifference any material Change in tlie poli
tical divilion of Euiop , would inlerpofe with
their mediation, and put an end to the mischiev
ous career of ambition and bloodflied.—On the
ij'hol July the celebrated Paul Jcnes died at
Paris. Oil the day following the National Af
fcmbly sent a deputation to attend his funeral. It
was objected that he was a Calvtnifl, bat the ob
jection was over ruled.— Thefituation of France
with Klpett to foieign powers as rfprelerued by
their own in 1 111 Her. is by no means favourable.
Pruffiaand Aultiiaare in arms againfl her; the ma
jority of the petty Hates ol uermanv waitingonl/
lor an aiiurance of protection to declare open
hostilities : Ruilia avowedly hoflile, but too
intent on the furtigation of Poland toftirnifh
men, thipi, or money, till that object be ac
compiuhe d : Swedki»and Denmark neutral;
Sardinia armed, watching the motions of
the French a. nnes, and certainly hoitiie 011 j
the firit proipect of the success of the com- j
buied dclpotic forces: Venice, an armed
neutrality, with a fleet to defend the en- I
trance ot the Adriatic, which is in fact pro- '
tecting the Amfrian ports ot Funics and \
Trieu iiom any.attack by France : Ge-I
noa, tlorence and Malta neutral : Spain, j
retuuug to accede to the royal convert, but ■
not expected to furnith the luccour.. due to
France as her ally : The Swiss cantons di- j
vitleci in opinion, but the 111 a ority inclined
to neutrality • Great-Britain neutral, from 1
tile general feufe of the nation j the go
vernment and court less favorably dispo
sed : The United Dutch provinces'neutral
hitherto, but will probably furnifn secret
aid to Auflria and Prullia: The United I
States of America friendly and grateful, but \
only capable of furnifhing relief to the
Wefl-lnd.a French colonies : Poland em
barked strongly in the cause of France, but
scarcely able to defend herfelf: Turkey,;
the ancient ally of Poland, and the ally of,
France for two centuries, lately too much
neg>ected, but (till capable of being roused
to act againlt Aultria and Rullia. One of 1
tite afl'afiins of Count Dillon had been exe
cuted at Lille on tne 13th of July. The
expences ot Lord Macartney's fpleudid eni
b-uly to China was eftirnaied at 200.0001.
/teriing, half to be paid by the Eait-India
company, and halt by the Bntifh govern-j
jnent.
It is mentioned in a London paper, under
the Paris head, that " The celebrated i
Pauj. Jones died in Paris about the mid
d.e of July, in the utmolt poverty. A Col. ■
Blackilen was obliged to raise a small Cum I
of money by way of subscription, in order
to bury h m." Should this be true, there
is only one \vi,y of accounting for such
a strange everfe of fortune, by l'uppo'ing |
ttiiis celebrated cliaraster had made him- !
■;lf obnoxious to the popular parly in Pari*, j
P y tiding in fentinu-iu with the ariltocratic j
taction.
By accounts from Sierra Leona,
in Africa, the negro colony that have been j
transported from Great-Britain and Ame- i
l'ica to tliat place, amounted in number to i
>ipVvards of fifteen hundred. They were 1
in tolerable good health, confideiing the
infsltibrity 01 the climate, and busily em- j
ployed in clearing land and building hou- |
lee. The cultivation of the sugar cane is ,
laid to be on" of tLeirfirfl objects iirview ; 1
in which, if they ftieceed, it is not improba
ble tnat Africa may in time furnifh sugar to
the world in abundance, inflead 01 mil'era
ble (laves to cultivate it in that hell of the
negroes, tile Weit-India islands.
»ly died at Lancaster, in England,
Mrs A-n Gill son, a maiden lad}-, aged
feventy-tw< years. She has leit 16001.
fterlinsto ju'i.d and endow haufes for eight
diftrefi'ed old males-
On Wednesday Lift arrived here from
JCillebegs (No - , y 'Ireland) the (hip Mi
nerva, Csft. v, ojd, with neatly 4CO paf
fy&ers.
Tiie felectdr of Saxony is said (in th<
London papers) to have joined the leagtii
againfl France, and furnifhed the alliet
powers with twenty-four thousand auxili
ary troops.
About ico Indians lately riiade an attacl
on Galliopolis, a French I'etilement on tin
Ohio, opposite the mouth of the Great Ka
nahwa, which continued for fonie time
The Indians after deftroymg the (landing
corn, killing four or five persons, and do
ing other mifchief, retreated—About th«
fame time two young women named Mor
ris, of Kanahwa county, were killed.
[Virginia Gazette. J
Mr. Paine'a firft part-os the Rights of Mar.
has lately been re-publiihed in London, un
der his direction, at a low pi ice, for the
benefit of ttie poorer ci.'fs of readers, viz.
at 30s. per hundred, which is less than 4d.
each, and fold singly at (ix-petice. The
work had already produced one thoufaud
pounds profit, of which money-Mr. Paine
has made the society for constitutional in
formation the tr 11 flees, to apply it to ftich
purposes as they lhall fee proper.
" Rufiia, Spain, Portugal, and all ancient
monarchies, at e wading through infinite
evils, mi ['cries and dugrace, by their relist
ing a salutary reform ! 1 he moment they
could give up lucre, ill It of domino.!, and
ja \\ at system, a new creat 011 w.iil arii'e
j forthwith ; man would cease to be a wolf
i —the lamb would not fear the lion, nor the
I lion the lamb ' —man would become the
: title friend, and not the avowed enemy 01
j his own llefk 1"
! On Tuesday last a .young man was com
| milted to the jail of this city >.n fiifp cion or
: his having been concerned in the murder
|of Elizabeth Reeves. [See National . az.
I of August 18.]
The constitutional society, in F.ngla'id'
have opened a ftibfcription for paying the
expences of Mr. Paine's defence againSt
I the pending prosecution. They have alfd
ordered that twelve thoufaud copies of his
[ letter to Mr. Secretary Dundas be printed
and sent to their correspondents.
j The famous George Barrington, (the
noted gentleman pickpocket, who so long
j infilled his native city London, and whose
oratorial abilities at the bar so often saved
I him from an ignominious death, but whose
j crimes at length doomed hiili to perpetual
j banishment at Botany Bay) was fonie time
j ago appointed by governor Phillips high
constable at Paramatta, a new feltlement
about fourteen miles from Sidney Cove,/
in which, (fay the Engliih papers) he con
duits hiinfelf with great propriety, and dis
tributes juflice in the most impartial man
ner, discovering in his decifipna lingular a
bilities and humanity."
We learn that art attempt is now making
to render the north branch of the river Pn
towmack navigable for boats, from Fort-
Cumberland to Old-towft. Thar the work
is carried on under the infpe£t ; on of Capt.
Thomas Beall, who has iixty hands con
stantly employed, and when compleated,
boats with produce can pass from Fort-
Cumberland 10 George-town.
011 Monday the 3d of September, (fays
ail Albany paper) the commiflioners f or ma
king roads and bridges in the weltern dis
trict are to meet in this city, and 011 Tues
day proceed to explore the Mohawk river,
below the Cohoes, for a suitable place to
build a bridge across that river, and are to
be accompanied by Mr. Heardfley, the cele
brated bndge-builder, who built Chace's
bridge, and one across the Mohawk river,
at the Little falls—and on Wednesday they
proceed to explore the Country, for a road
and bridges, from Albany westward— to be
gin at the house of llaac Tmax, junior, and
continue through Duandburgli to Cherry
\ ailey, and from thence to the outlet of
Lake Otfego, Which will shorten the rout
to that place about twenty miles. ThelV
two objects of the law, if effected, mult
prove highly pleating to every class of citi
zens in this diftrift.
A gentleman who was lately in Sliel
burne, Nova-Scotia, informs, that there
are upwards of three hundred very elegant
built houses in that place unoccupied.
Tliofe houses were cliieiiy built by the loy
alists, who left New- York in corifequence
of the impolitic measures adopted bv that
slate in the year 1783, —when so much
money was carried away by those persons,
under the harsh denomination of refugees,
and who would have gladly remained to
expend their money in New-York, had
they not oeen alarmed, and, in fact, forced
away. The reason alledged for so many
houses being empty at Shelburne, is, that
the climate and 10.l of Nova-Scotia is deem
ed altogether hoflile to the constitution*'of
human beings, uho were certainly never
intended, agreeably to the Hale of nature,
ro inhabit unfruitful rocks and baritii
earth.
" We are? now end then, (fays a writer
in a daily paper of last Week) told of new
loans made, for the United States, in Hol
la I .d, or from the Bank ; and the facility
with which these loans are made, as well
as the loans themlelves, are cited as proof
of public credit ; whereas, uniefs applied
to pay off other debts, they ought rather to
leflen the credit is th<»fum
owiilg is. increafetU Th*- ti utfek, public
; credit, I ke every thing else, has lis
* and its evil : let it be our study to fecuri
1 ! the one and to avoid the other. Thegoo<
- j of public credit conlids, in the fettled or
der it supposes of payment of the debts o
the {late, whereby its creditors are bene
i utetl , but the evil conlilts (and a very for
unliable one it has proved 111 other coun
tries old in the science) in that it admini
r Iters to the officer at the head of the trea
fnry, an easy facility to borrow ; this i'
. connected with a conilant readiness in th«
government of a country to enter into an)
war or adventure, however absurd in it
felt and deihuftive to the human race :
where the head of the trealurycan ealil)
' obtain the nectfidry loans ; these again arc
never paid off nor meant to be, but are on
ly to be put on inteiell, and taxes imposed
on the people in the molt pluulible and least
obnoxious manner, to raise the funis ne
ceiiitry to pay that interest ; ftmh has been
the h.ftory of public credit in England, and
luclj it will be here, unlefi guarded agaiilft
by a vig lance on the part of the people, al
moit beyond what it is to be expected they
-■ ill exeri. In luch a {late of things, pub
lic credit means public taxes, the more
debt, the more impults ; arid
'J'i fhoui 1 there cuine into government,
men, admirers of the fyffem, fond of pro
j v >ug to their confiiuitnts the excellence of
j their credit, by the free life they make of
I it ; such men will be for war, because war
1 oi any kind create: deb:, debt creates tax
es taxe.i create ollices and officers, and so
' 'I goes 011 till the poor are saddled, as in
I thgland, with unfupportable burthens,
j contributing to the enriching and aggran
-1 <hziiig only of a few ; hence, you will fee
in their papers on the one ride, the qu?en
; ornamented at a ball, with a dress and jew
jel worth 100 oco guineas, and 011 the other,
11: lery and wretchedness ats nding the
| common people, and reducing many of
them to want the neceflaries of life : in
one part of the picture, you behold the
ip'endor of opulence existing in the caitles
of the noble and the affluent ; in the other,
| the wretched peasantry abandoning the
1 country —here, a poet laureat linging his
birth-day ode, and there a Goldfmitk la
: inenting over his deserted village."
] The army of the United States, now at
Pittfburg. conlifts of one thousand infantry,
I four hundred riflemen, and two hundred
light horse, under the command of General
Wayne. They were expected to go down
the river about the middle of September,
1 if not delayed by the lownefs of the wa
ters.
On the 9th inft. the fliip Britannia arri-
I ved at New-York, in 37 days from Glas
gow This veflel brings European accounts
to the latt of July.
Letters from Georgia represent the peace
between the United Stares and the Creek
Indians to be upon a very precarious foot
ing. "It is apprehended the Spaniards
have been but too fuccefsful in lowing pre
judices to the disadvantage of the United
States, aud it is even said ihat Gen. M'Gil
livray has been inceflantly aflaiied from
that, and perhaps amit/icr quaiter, to break
with us. Should the Itrength of the Creeks
be joined to the general Indian league that
seems to be forming again!! us, from an
ai-prehenlion that their country is in dan
ger, the confequcnces may prove seriously
dillreffiug to the whole frontier; and it
may be lound, perhaps too laie, that regu
lar armies are by 110 means calculated to
lepreti Indian aggrelfions."
It is mentioned with confidence in a late
English paper, that there is every reason to
luppofe Lord Cornwallis's soldiers in In
dia, after all his promises of independence
and reward, will not iliare twenty joufidt a
man, the pitiful compensation of their long
and laborious lervices.
On the 12til of July an address from the
community of Marseilles was p'reflented to
the trench National Aflembly, demanding
the abrogation of the law which declares
the crown flcrediiary in the family of
Bourbon.
A gentleman lately from Paris informs,
that me t-ftairs in France wear not so gloo
my art aspect as is held forth by many of
try? Britilh prints. Trade and manufac
tures were continued with their original
vigor, and the populace seemed to enjoy a
| liate of peace and tranquility.
About the firfl infta'm, three foldicrs belonging
to ihe Federal Army, under General Wavne,
wert (hot on the commons near Pittlburgh, for
defrrtion. —Seteial additional detachments of
troops had reached l'itdburgh when the la!l ac
counts came away.
011 the sPtli of Augufl was held the Afiniver
fary Commencement at Dartmouth c6llege, in
N. Hampthire, when a number of degrees were
conferied 111 the aits, medicine, and divinity.
At the commencement was preftnt the Indian
chief O nondeyo, of the Oneida nation, who cx
prt (fid hiv great approbation of the variou; exer
c-.ies. jhe Preftdent made him a hs'ndfofhe
addicfs in the name ot the uuftecs, which was
re urned by the chief aftci the manner of his
nation, with few words of advice t(J the youth
who had iu'fl taken (heir degrees, and were i.rc
paihig to enter upon the world.
The En'gliih ministerial prints are uni
form in representing the affairs of France
to be in the lad fta°e of desperate iitaacion,
the nation torn by- intcftine divisions, and
upon the point of becoming a prey to anar
chy within, a.id the combined and emigra
ted forces without. French papers, parti»
cularly the Leyden Gazette, are rece.ved
by some late arrivals, which by no means
pourtray the nation in those dismal color*
ihat delignate the London minifttfrial newfc
papers, and would lead an unfiifpecting
reader to iuppofe ihe revolution in d tnger.
A writer, A Traveler, in the Diily
Advcrtifer of yeftei, iv, propofci the following
ticket lor tfis feriousconiideration of the public ;
and w.hictl he supposes will be agreeable to the
c tizens of ihe wetlcrn and middle
Thomas Fitzfimons,
CharloS Thornpfon,
Frederick A. Muhlenberg;
William Biagham,
Ifiael Jacob , '
Daniel Heifler,
John W. Kittera,
Thomas Hartley,
William liwine, of Cumbcrlar.dj
William M'Clay,
William findlev,
John Woods, of Wafliington.
L 0' N I) O N, July 21.
The refufal of the king of France to
an&io'n the decrees of the Aflembly for
"orming a camp round Paris, and against
he refractory clergy, has given fucii of.
'ence to the populate, that nothing but in
urreftion in and about I'aris has b&en the
onfequence. The palace has bee:) ftveral
imes inverted, and once a itab was made
it the king, which would doubtless hav*
>roved fatal had not one of the national
rtiard, feeing the attempt, ru/hefl between
he aflaffin and his inajtliy and received the
iVound.
The ghost of Banqud did not terrify
Macbeth snore than the appearance of Mi
!e la Fayette has frightened the Jacobins
n Paris. They could scarcely believe their
■yes. So unexpected a vilit has pot a flop
o their wicked purposes, and may perhaps
>rove the fneans of totally extirpating that
lefperate band of lawless rebels. His per
on, as they regard their own, will be fa-
Ted ; for the arniv to a man would re-»
enge even the fmalieft indignity offered to
lim.
A new invention of making a cable by
iieans of a piece of machinery, just erected
n Portsmouth yard, the conftruftion of
•vhich is very curious, has been fubmitred
o the board of admiralty, by means of
his engine, which is pat in motion by fix -
een hurfe?, twenty men wholly unlkilled
n works, will be enabled to make a
:ab!e of dimehfions for the iargeft ship, in
time than two hundred make
>ne according to the Qfual methods.
*#* ljibttvriterund.tr iheJig nature of
' yf Freemanin Mejfrs. Hall and Sellers*
toper of Augujl 29, had sent his ObseAvA
ri NS, originally, to the National Gazette,
'•where the extracts from the Farmer's Lit
ers Jirfl appeared) they fliould have been i,U
r trttd. The Editor oj lit A r tional Gazette
\y no means confidcrs hirtife/f obligated to
'tpubUfi, in any injlattce, tubal m y have
ilready been conveyed to the public through
'he mediutn of another Press ; efpccial/y at
'he requisition oj-an anonymous NdTJC.
ItETEORO LOGICAL :OBSERVATIONS^
September, 1 2.
£> H. Bar. Ther.W'mi. WeatA.
'Vednefday, j. 6 30. 4 50 N. E Fair.
2 30. 4 "> do. do.
Thursday, 6. 30. 3 58 N-E. Fair.
2 30. 3 70 do. Clcudy.
Friday, 7. 6 30. 2 64 N. E. Clovdy.
N . 2 30. 1 77 S. W. Fair
Saturday, 8. 6j 30. 1 67 S. E. Fogvy.
ii 3°- 1 [S. W. Fair.
Sunday, 9. 6 Jo. 05 <>5 IN. E. Chudy.
2; 2<)- 82 IS. F. Ram.
Sunday, ial 6 _,o. 2 52 N. Cloudy.
2 j;o. 2 (.6 N. E Fair.
'uefday, ji. 61 30.25 46 M. Ftur.""
2' 30.2 ,; "69 E. I Fair.
SOCIETY FOR ESTABLISHING
USEFUL MANUFACTURES.
NO J ICE is hereby gtvtn to the Stockholdcri
ot tiic Society for fltablii'hing ufeful manu
acturc, that the annual elt&ion for Directors as
he lard focicty will be held at the Ccurtfioule in
*lew-Ail,' it', the county of E/fex on the fir ft Mon
lav in Oftol»er next, between tHe hours of twelve
ind two in tn£ afternoon of the fame day.
A. MERCER, Deputy Governor.
New-Ark July, 17th
P LANS "
of tuf. City of Washington.
FOR SALE BY
MESSRS. IJ'iblop, Cmlclhanky and
Carey, in this city.
Sept. 15. ' 6 C ,
v ,* Three hanJfomt Editions of ihe Lotus
f the United "talcs for fait at this cjfice
r Noi tocj Market ftrert) in folio and oSa
vi, either fall or half bound—N.B. The
Laws oft\:lafl Scjj'tm, in olavo only, may
Vehadji• tarate, prim throe eighths qf a dollar,i.. .• //; . r ' • i' •-
-.1 \ .. '• . "-'j'- .
.V - c ' c, j ■'
* ,\ T ?, ! )'• >" * ;J ';M *
.L A V. . i ; :V; : ,:i ' w 1 J = 1
'! .t . j M •' 1 1 " :jl 1 : :;i U
:Ci 1.1 .1 f!i n
•.-1 i ;. . M '. 1 ; • -.Vi i--
i, r,: ' I : •• . - . , i - f-.i'i:
- i ' ■ ■i,■ <■ . ■ • ~: [:■ M".r
, -c.;.; : ■, cji -i
:. - i . ■■ ■ ■
• : ■ • . .., ..n • .
r -l :_ivc *
"• :r ' : ' : '
J!:.:"'.:;.:. ; v :-■./
v.;::.
*■ ! L; ■' ' 71 »'1 • ■'-■■■ 1 ■ 1 ;'1 - 5
• r v -'' - r ' : '' :r i
•-i '• -. r> .1 - ; " ' ' : ' i'' I*i »
I ir, i' ■ i > j ■: ! ' -
£i i C 'CU :.:i- - ~ j iI •' :
n -rs .; J 1 : 1 1 ■.!:.
V 1 .. 1
tr- ;; 1 ' '•' I■• ' ' ' ' » :>' '■ " •
L ...ii 1 i C: : I 11 ! . :r. j
y r n 1' r:. '. :1 ; u■■ / , .t.. .1 |
- ! ! J ] i
.1; . • :i ■ r • c■ ' | :• i
ir;. 1 11.. i ..v: .1 1 1 :!-[■•.• . i ; !• i
j k' '. j. ■ ■ . '. ; !
r, 1 L - : — . • < '
Ti.L'. •: t . " f If o: . S' n ;
1 n ;,;? ■ : *(• :• •.i> .• i.■ ■ . i. ,-ic k
1. ■"■! r.... '- . ; 1•y c i cii J Li • -
!i. "..I' 'i • t 1
•' i ■ i . iin 0 : c '■■■■*•<• -i
' , ■ ': ! 1 f.. c - 1)' J i - ■'::
t'-. 1 y ; io. : i ,;i. jiT i: ■ ■ i is
V.I 'i 'i..'";. : ' • ~l" . 1 CaCIU'J I.J .. :.'I
' i ■
'' i -/.it i>" i■ . - i' : 11.. t ■! v. : II ■. i":.i-
V - .vi. ?!, - • : t'. l u..■ 1 ■'r .j'i
L . :,I ;: .I.' !.- .. ic 1 m: •<' u 1 •1 I
r..',r--Nl - 1 1 * v : 1.. •. :!"C -' J _-i .1
j \ w . ■ *- -•
iir.-' i , ;'i 5 v.i'', ; /-no r •
:r, i i M (Ir :■ i 3 1! J ;'s >: i ri -
r,': ' ' 1
t"• • • . • 1. i* i::.i :j : ■■ ■ - ; ..1 ; !
I -A': ■, -.'-j: 1 i r ' i' y - ... : - ■ . i !
1 ■-/'> i : -,v •' 1 ■ il. . ' ; 1- : ; <i
; ' - : 5 — • : • r . ; 1 ' "J
2■ •' . 1' :1 -A i.' :.c i ! •'. '
rr.M' n >.> I.i. ; • • -.v-'/r :->■ r.--- '.i;- - ; -
i"i IM ~.;r ..I .■ 1 t, • ■■ . i. ■
Ii ■*v 10 i-."'.i. J. R.i ' • r;r r ' . "
; V ~ K, I ..._ ■ 1-
til- II , I ; !. c ■ !'i - E-": ,t A ,
r : iT- .: ' : ..■ ' • C: '' J ;
1 j .;i 1 .1 n;• u ! :■! ■; '•" - ■ ■ ■'1 :■ 1i . i
m i 1 ■ ' 1 '■' : •i" I''. '■' v' f -
tii .1 ' (>■; '.'•••.■ • •;
isMo o:'i\ ii.-'j... -i : 1 iit i i—
o* ,• v :• - r.u '
4 • u i ji Lv. -'i ■■ v lot | l" ! • , ai: - V :
i. ,:i :'I ;ii :;i ,il■; ■. ii .'u . ' 'pS t > C. .jj. i,. i: •
-!■ •: ; ,'v
Ir' v.;, i; t 1 ■. 1 1: i :i 1 ■ ■
\r. : -;b \ : . •. '' i : 1 1 r . i
! ■ :: ■.... =
w -• 1 ,
: l i i. • 1 .
t ■ 1 ' '' i- '■ •■■
c. . •
, 1, . 1 >
II aHi : 1 : . :. •:• '• 1 '
i.i .v .. v j I*' t - - 1 '■ • : ? m;) .'y
ri .• •, - ,s - . ''. , -
,-.V 1 . iJ i. tl; 'S
- .t".
" % ; :' ;• . '1 ■ ..1
.An;'." : ' 1: : " " I'l'' -' }' '.
?C. ii•- • •' •' '' ' ' ' ' v ' > ' " ■ 1
ii. " i ... .1 IIT ;1; i 1 y- , ■ : .
JCIV e .i ; i. ">•- "iy, -■ M fl■ .• : X| .;r. • . ( •■,..
viv\ .1 «-•" * 11 - J :■ 11 • . . . .
ir v; :o ny c j '.11 > .
*/, !i ,f" 11 "f Cl. -I (f
iii '!i.- ju:i:c m .1 1.-, f v j ; r;;r t■ ,*
cov.Miui v.lu uik-.: ir, ~:..i ■/! .u^n
t!i« traitors w'u> w<v.i!d foil/ !c ; I conns tIJ <lv i
ciafc that the French n?.tion, it' {he is n-t i • ;
mod vile in the universe, may and ought to refiit
the confpifacy of kings formed ainfb 1 icr«
11 1c is not, undoubtedly, in the midic of my
brave army, that timid f ntiments are ni*«ited i
patriotilYn, energy, difciplioej patience, mutual
confidence, all the civil and military virtues i
have found in it. Jnit the principles r-i
and equality are chtrri.licd, the law* refpfedied, pi < -
pjity facrcd jin it neither calumnies noi rati -
ons are known j and when I recolftit'that Franc
has several millions capable of becoming fuc.i 1 -
dicrs, i aikmyfsif to what pitch" of debdie.neni
would auimmenfe people be reduced itlll (trouper
in their natura' resources than in the afefi-ncc of
art, opposing to a monltrous confederation to?
advantage <-.1 combinations dirediu to a firgie
cbjedt, for the base i lea of facriucwig their sover
eignty, of convenanting for theii libc.ty, of re
mitting their declaration of rights to ntgociatloii,
to ;;ppcar one of the poilibilitics of iiie lfiue til a
is rapidly advancing upon u-,.
if But in order that we, I .'dicrs of liberty, may
fight with efficacy, or cnc w:th pr. lit our cause.
it is jKceflary that she number of the
of our country be foetdily proportioned to that of j
their adversaries ; that stores cf all forts be mul
tiple t, t,, facilita-all our moti-mi : that th
comfort of the troop., their equipage* their pa>,
the provisions for their health, be no longer ex
:-o:"eu to fatal delays, or pretended livings,
n aich al'vva. s tyfo out the diredt rever fti- of uk-0
oi jedt.
li Above al!, it is neceflViry that tha citizen,
ral'ied around the conllltuthm be assured thatine
rights which ii guarantees will be refpetted with a
rrligious fidelity, that drive its enemies, con
cealed or public, to def^air.
" R.-jcdt not this will* : it is that of the sin
cere & faiihfu( friends of your legitimate autho
rity. Assured' that no unjuit confcqucnce ear
flow from a pure principle, that no tyrannical
mcafures caitfejve a cause which owe* its' force
and its glory to th". facrcd balis of liberty anc
equally, make criminal justice resume its confi i
tutional course j make civil equality an<i
■»os liberty e-; y the entire appiic..:ion of thsi;
'iue principal.
" Let the royal pew r be. untouched, for it is
guaranteed by the constitution j let it be infle
i■«*!»• »ent, fir its independence is one of the springs
of out liberty ; let the king be revered, for be ii
inverted with the national majesty 5 let him
ii.ave the power of chuling a ministry chat wears
I.at thechainJof a faction j and if there be con
-1 ;;ij ators, let them pen in by. the iwurd cf the
i a w.
" In fine, let the of annihilated by
vou, give jilace to the i eigu of the law, their usur
pations to the firm and independent exercile of
the constitutional authorities, their oiforganizing
maxims to the true principles of liberty;, their de
lirious fury to the calm and fteaoy courage of a
nation that understands its rights and defends"
them : in fine, their factious combinations to the
true interests of our country, which, in this mo
rnent of danger, ought to unite all thole to whom
her subjugation and her ruin are not objects of ac.-
trocious ioy, or infamous peculation.
•' Such, gentlemen, are the repi dentations and
'he petitions fubrnitted to the national aflembly,
as they are to the king, by a citizen, whofs 1-e or
liberty will never be honestly questioned j whom
the different factions would hate left, if he had not
raised himfelf above them by his diftnterefred
nefs j whom silence would have better become* if,
like lb many other?, he had been indifferent :o the
glory cf the national assembly, and the confidence
with which it is of importa~ce that it lhould bv
lurrounded ; and who cannot better teltify his
own confiuencc, than by laving, before it the
truth without disguise.
" Gentlemen, I have obeyed the dictates ef
my conscience, and the obligations of my oaths.
I owed it to my countvv, to you, to the king, and
above all, to inyfeif, whom the chances of war do
not allow to po.lpone cbfervations that I think
ufeful ; and who wish to bel-eve that the afl'crnbly
•.vill find in this addiefs a new homage of my
tion to its constitutional authority, as well as of
my pejfonal gratitude, and of my refpett.
• (Signed) FAYETTE.
Letter from M. La Fayette to the King.
Entrencbcd ca;»p of Maubeuge, jfune 16, 1792,
year oj Liberty."
« SJRE,
<c I HAVE the honor to fpnd wur Majesty the
copy of a letter to the National Aflemb! , in
which youc m ijefty wi I iiod the Irprefii n * f fen
riments that have animated my K ole life. The
king knows with what a-dour., v. f what conitai;-
cy, I hav- been at al! timi« devuted to the cauix
of libei cv, to the fitted' ny'. so f humanity,
equality, »ndju(iiCe. ' • that 1 wa; ai
wa, 1 the ,-.!t _ , rfi: v y t>f I'\ : Y\- ■ enemy. of\k< e •
tioufnefs, 3r,t. that n » power,- ii'i I thought un
lawful, was ever acksvjvw d by i.e. lie knows
my cevoiion to his conliifutional authority, and
my attachment to his peil n. Such, Sire, are
the basis of my letter to >e national afTeanbly }
such will be those of my conduct towards my coun
try and )our rft<ijelcy, amid the itorms wh'ch so
miff combination#, hottile or factious, (trive to
draw upon Os.
uJc belor not to me, Sire, to give to rfty
opinions cr my meafurea a higher degiee of im
pOrtance than the .unconnected adts of a ftfnple
citizen ought to pofT-.'s j but the exprelfion of my
ih.cu-hts Was always a and on this occafibir
becomes a doty ; and although 1 might hive ful
filled t! a doty sooner, if, in Dead of bein>» to be
hinrci f 1 rn the mid ft of a camp, my voice ha
been t iilu: from the reticat from which I was
itawnby t:ie dangers of my country, I do no
ihink lhat public function, or any peifonal confid
eration'jiejcafes mc from exercising tiiis dury of a
citizen, this right of a freeman.
4< Perfiit, Sirp, firong in the authority which
chc national will has delegated to you, in the gen
etous resolution of defeaJing the principles of the
coriflitutio>j .lgainit all their enemies. Let this
resolution, fu.pported by all the adts of your pri
vate life, as by a (i* m and fulbcxercife-of the roy-
I al power, become the of harmony, which,
above allin ihe ntomcnU of cnii., canuot fail to
be efhtblilhcj bcv.vecn rhc :2 r .cfc.jtativei l
by the people and their hereditary
1* is in this lefolutioii, Sire, that lor your country
ami for yourfelf areglory and fafety.—There you
will find the friends of libeh., all gooJ French
j men, ranged around vourthr<me, to defend it
| the machinations,of the rebellious, a J
'■lie e/itfrprilcs of the faiftioiis. And I, Sire, who,
: > their honoiahle hatred, have found the recom
pcnce of my perfeveriug oppofition—-J vvi'l always
merit it by rii / zeal to serve the cause to w.i cii my
•vholji life is devoted, and by my fidelity to the
>arh wh>ch i :ave tal;*.n to the nation, the law
and the k.':ng^
1 ' Such, S're, ire my unalterable fentimcnts
co which 1 fubjoiii the duty of homage and that
■if my refptft.
(Signed)- " Js\ FAYETTTE."
Te'rres a Vendre
Dans un pais bun peuple',—
S AVOIR, foixante cinq mille, trois cens, foix
ante et quatotz? Acrej, en une fenle piece,
dans le canton le rmeux people de la Caroline Me
ridional*, leDirtiitt-de Ninety-Six* Ces tcrres
I pit fiijces daris one contiee agreable, et falubre,
u leo [jevres fo'ncinConnueFj a environ vingt lieues
de Colombie, la Capita e, et contigues ala vilie
ic Camblidge, ou ii y a College, ecCour fuperi
eure. A environ douie lieues, ;l y a bonne navi-
•, et il cit tres probable, <frue dafts quelaue
temson rtftdra navigjble le Grand Saiude, riviere
tui arrofe les terrcs fciemes. Elles font
mePyt • iveififi:~'s ce coteaux et vallons charmans,
jnopris a ia culture du tabac, du coton, du Rials,
et du petit gr.iin jet dont one proportion confider
a'de le peut aifemcnt convertir cn prairies fcrtiles.
il n'ctt peut etre guci > pollible de rencontrer une
pare.;ie piece de lerre a vendre dans aucun autre
desErats Ui : »s jet pour les conditions de l'achat,
on les rendra tres Commodes.
iTiofcrmer a i'in»piimerie de la Gazette Na
tioiidlc. Sept. 5.
LANDS tor SALE,
JH a iv.il fritied Country. SIXTY-FIVE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
btVENTY FOUR ACRfi.S OF LAND, in one
nod}, in the most populous part of the state 01
South-Carolina, in the dittridl of Ninety-fix—lt
is li tu a ted in 11 fine healthy climat**,frce from fever
& ague,about lixty miles from Columbia, the feat
government. The land is contiguous to the
.own 01 Cambridge, where arc a seminary for the
iriik'u&ion or youth, and a superior law court, if
is at present within about thirty.five miles of good
navigation, with a probability of having the river,
calieJ the Great Saluoa, that flows along one fide
<»r the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
fuiiy divetfill'd into swells and vales, and is per
fectly weil calcinated tor the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and small grain j a great
1 proportion ox it may be made meadow ground,
fheie is not, perhaps, such a body of land, focii
curnftanced, for sale in any other of the U. States.
The terms of payment will be made convenient to
the pure ha tier or purchafeis. Apply to the Printer.
Augult 29, iawtf
To be publijhcd by Subscription,
the
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Old y
*'rom «Septev: :).;-r 1774,10 March 1789 —an au
thentic and original collediion of
Official better 4 Sfc.
Written during the late war ; —and Ex
tracts from the
<ljccrct journal).
[For particulars, fee the .Propo/ats at largtS)
Subscriptions are received by the principal
bookfeliers, and by the Editor,
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Strfcet, Phila
delphia.
JCJST PUBLISHED
By E. OsWALk>,
(Price Eleven Pence)'
FIVE LE TTE RS,
addiefTed to the
Yeomanry of the United States:
I'AibMNG lome Oofervati ons on the
Schcmc of Governor Oner and Mr Secreta
ry Hamilton, to eibb/uli Njtional Manut'adlures ,
by a FARMER. This pamphlet, so highly in
lereiling at chi.; period, may be bid at jhr follow
■ng pl j-.es : at Mr. OUild'j Pri:iting-Office, N.<
15C, M;: ket-fireet; at No. 209, Market-street;
at M - Dobfon's, 41, South Secdnd-ftreet j at
Mr. C. uklhanks, 91, Ma ket-ftreet; at Mr,
Aitkin's, s», Mai ket-ftrect; and at Mr. Young's
S. W. coiner of CiitiViuC and Second-streets.
Au .uft 21.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale at the Printing-Office,
No. 2ot. M irket-Street,
and at Thomas Dobfoa's Hook-Storein
Stcond-Street,
Price Three-Eighths of a Dollar,
A'DVI C E
TO THE
PRIVILEGED ORDERS,
in the
SEVERAL STATES or EUROPE,
Refiilting from the necessity and pro
priety of a General Revolution in
the Principle of Government.
-* - ,
■ By Joe i. Bah how, Esquire.
fur ejlablijbiuz ufrful ftfjnufacturet*
NOTiCE ! 9 hereby given to the holders of
flock i.ithe 'YM society, that the following
arrangement has been made by the Deputy Go
vernor i d Directors thereof, by a refoiution or
(he eighteenth day of May, 1792.
The f-cond iniHlment for the payment of fharei
in the Hock of this fuciety, may be made in the
following manner, viz.
Tiie amount of the said second Pnftalment, be
ing 20 13* 100 dollars each snare, may be paid in
three payments, on condition that tbe lawful in
tere't of 7 per cent, per annum, be calculated
and paid with each proportionate part of the said
payment, that is to fay, on or before the thir
tseiuh day of August next, the sum of 6 7t-ioo»
with the addition of 12 cents, being tbe inceteffc
of one month on 20 13-100 dollars—on or be
fore the 13th of September next, the sum or 6
ii-ioo dollars, with the addition ot 8 cents, be
ng the imereft for one month on 13 42-100 d >i
ar?—and on or before the 13th of October next,
the sum of 6 71-100 dollars, with the addition of
4 cents, being the interest on the fame for one
month. The laid payments arc to be made at the
following places, viz. In the city of Philadelphia
at the bank of the United Srates—at New-Brunf
wick, in New-Jersey, to John Bayard, or John
Neilfoli, EftjrS—and in the city ot New-York, at
the bank wi Now-Yoik, or either of the said
places, which may be jnoft convenient to the
(lock holders.
By order of the diredion,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerk.
J u] y 2 4- tf.
JUST PUBLISHED, "
And to, - fait; by the Printer, I
John M'Cullock, at.No, 1 .North Third-
Street, and by ii:o!t of the Book-
Seller;- in this city,
(Price 3,/ql
MODERN CHIVALRY:
Containing the
Adventures of Capt. John Farrago,
a-id
Teague O'-Regan,
liis Servant.
VOLUME 11.
B? H. H. BR AC KEN RIDGE,
Puicquid agunt Homines, nojtn, Farrago libclli.
Juvenal'
PUBLIC REPORTS
4 from the,
EXECUTIVE DE PAR TMENTS
OF THE
Government cf the United STATEi
TO
CONGRESS,
Cemntencin with the prefmt Government, and end
ing with the cloje oj the Scjfion of May, ij)2.
1 Hli> work « intended to be printed tu ons
volume ofiavo, efiiniated to conta n betwecnf
five and fix hundred p<yes, and will be, deliver
ed to fubferibers in boards at One Dollar and s
naif.
A complete collefliorrof the Reports into a
.onvenient and portable volum? hasboeen iug-
to the pubhlh ers by several members of
L.wgrefs and other g'entiem n,and they are now
leterimned to proceed on with th work, provi
ded competent number ot fublcribers appear
.0 patronize the undertaking.
Subfcriptionj are received by CHILDS and
iWAINE, the pabliihers, No. 209 Market-
Ireet, Philadelphia, and by the principal Book
.ellcrs in the United States. May 34.
FOR SALE,
AFOUT 100,000 acres of Land, lying near
Whiteftown, in the Itate of New-York, on
e '• "i th fide ot the Mohawk river, adjoining
Joblebotough, and will, be fold cither in parcels
r together, as may suit the purchasers.
N. B, The above rrati of land it of the firfl
quality in the late, chiefly timbered with beach
nd ma le, well watered, and contains many mil!
leafs; The peculiar advantages of this tract, Cru
sted wi.hin ifu miles of Whiteftown (which,
>nU'uis upwards of five thousand inhabitants)
•i'h a» ify and convrn'-nr -./.iter carriag- to
chencct .Jj, Albany, and New-York,,make it an
<bje<t for any persons inclined to fettle it, and ren
sr it an extrcmclv purchase for j
■Clivrr t p rCJIfM their money in land ofj
i 1 encreif:n(( value. The wltole tracft or any paM
>fir, wii! be fold very low for ca/h, or for pail
afli, and the remaining payments at distant
ids. tiv;t,ire at No. :.zc\ Q_iegn.ftreet, near thfe
/1,-market New-York.
July 19.
George Town, June 2, 1792.
A NUMBER or LOTi in every situation
f\. Which mav be d'fi: cj in the city of Will,
ngton, will be offered tor fsJe, by the Comrnif
ioners on Monday the Sth day of Odtober next.
One fourth part of the purchase monev to bs
paid down, the residue in three eqtial annual pay
ments, with yearly interest on the whole princi
pal unpaiJ. JOHN M. < \NTT,
July 25. Clerk to the CommilTiors.a.
_ %*" For fate at this CZo, Sermons by
the Rcv'd Dr. William Linn } of Jf. fk
Price sfy 1-2.
PRINTED ,
CHILDS and S WAIN E,
AT THJETIK OFF JCE NO. HI G H-5 TA£ L T
J\.LAR FIFTH sr'RF % T,
AS'LI.PHILV lllA't