rNumb, ii of Vol. ll.] WED NESD AY, December 5, 1792.
Stri&ures'on Mr. Adam's political char
acter.
[Continuedfrom our lafl.~\
IN denial of the fact, I offered in evi
dence, the whole tenor of Mr. Adams
pretended defence of the American con
ilitutions. his discourses on Davila, and
o;her political writings of later dates, and
those abil rafts in particular whi-ch have
been judicioully fekfted by Lucius, and
have lately appeared in this paper, ane
republifhed in the National Gazette, ad
d-d to this testimony his own unequivo
cal, ja.ol declarations of every day.
From this conclusive and undeniable
evidence, it appears that Mr. Adam:
conceives, an hereditary monarch, poffef
ling ihe whole executive influence, apo
fnive negative upon all laws, with othei
difiinft privileges, eiTeutial to the propei
formation of one half of Ins political ba
lance. The people pofT-ffing a eontrou
b/er money, the other half, and a ci
nobles with superior and diftinft
lcTe« from the people, the prop and pivot
of this balance ; That no government
can long exilt without all and each ol
tl.ffe rt'quifites. Andfr.ee the adoption
of the present government, he has pubfa ly
and in writing exprefled a joy, that A me
rlca has advanced one Jlrp toinaras tits
favourite, fanciful government of balances,
"hence I irrefnlibly infer, that Mr. Adam's
is not a firm and uniform patriot ; that
liis patriotism of 1776 to the tin.,
of his million to the British court, con
lifted in a love for the conllitution of A
merica, and a readiness to render her fer
-vices ; that from that time to 92, hi!
fpurieus patriotism has confined in a con
tempt or distrust for the American con
ilitutions, and an avowed preference foi
that of Great' Britain. I infer too, that
I\i is not the devoted advocate foi
the equal rights of man, norcf difiinftioi
of office, "without nobility of brth•
The real difference between our au
thor and myfelf confiftsm this . tie ha.
taken up Mr. Adams's political charaftei
and opinions in 1776, and pursued then
to the tims of his million to Great Britain
J have taken up his political character anc
opinions from that time, and prefentec
them to the world as they now are.
The date of his political apofaiy com
menced during his residence at that court
his present opinions germinated and ma
turated there, he did not breathe the pui<
political aether of America, when thi
wonderful conversion of opinion wa
wrought.
Here let me panfe and ask you, Araert
caes Whether our author, who feenv
{o accurately acquainted with the eailj
pan of the hiltoiy of Mr. Adams's poli
character and opinions, should not
alio be supposed to know the important
change which then took place, and at
present exists ? and what confidence car
you, or ought you to have in tiie venc.
writers of a party, who attack youi pre
judices, refute ail appeal to your judg
ments, who furnifh you with mifrepr<Men
tations, who endeaveur to obfeurs from
you the truth, or if the semblance of it be
presented to you, it is truth mutilated 01
cliilorted !
Some have been so hardy as to enquire,
admitting Mr. Adams should possess these
heterodox opinions,how will they affect the
stdminitlration of the government ? Al
tho', to one acquainted with the conititu
tion of the United States, this mull ap.
pear a flrange enquiry, I will nevertheless
Hate my ideas of their probable operati
ens and effects.
There exiit at present in the world twe
species of government : the one growing
out of the discretion of the individuals
composing it, antl founded in actual con
sent or agieement ; the other the mere ef
fect of accident, produced by the casual
operation of the turbulent and militant
interell of parties, without any iyitematic
principle tf consent or agreement. To
dift'-i.' k:iQ r JaUdge l v;rtue and hatyinefs a-
By P. FRENEAU: Publified Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum. •
mcngft the people, is the prime principle
and the great objeA of a wife admimib .i
tioa of the former, and its fuunity is al
ways commensurate with the viifdom, vir
tue and purity of its adminulr<ition.-
Fraud, violence, and deception to a ccr
tain degree, ate cffentia'i to the anmini
ftration of the latter; and the prime ob
jed, in facilitating their operation, is the
ignorance of the people at large. The
liability of this species of government,
proportioned 1o the degree of corruption
u fed in it, and the judgment ufeJ in its up
plication. From the former fptcies of go
vernment re It. Its freedom, huppinefs, equul
law, and equal rights, to individuals ; ffCW
the latter Slavery and arbitrary diicrimi
riatio'ns : htnee, every principle which
would facilitate the operation of one spe
cies ofthefe governments, would militate
'g.r-nil the operation of the other. ihe
mei icaiii fu nifh the on.y example in the
world of the fir 11 fpeeie* of government ,
ill the civilized v.oiLi beiide groan
ing under the latter. It has long been
doubted in the politic-1 world, whether
,lu discretion of than be c ; nr. pett nt to his
Tovernmcnt, or whether lome degree of
■qfee, fraud, or deception, be not effenti
il to the comple ion of that objetl ? A
nerica is anxiously looked up to by the
.voi Id to at cert <i in the truth of this
political que it ion.
Mr. Adams has declared h>mfe!f against
:he ability of man to govern hmfelt from
lis own discretion, and has avowed him
".lf the champion for a different species
-jf government :—Hen e, I conclude with
rrefiilable reason, th .t Mr. Adams will
afe his formidable talents to aflimilate the
idminiltration of the government of the
United States, to that form species of
government for which ne has oecL.eJ a
decided pieitrence, and for which he has
pledged himfclf, as an author, to the
world.
Americans, be confident ! If you be
prepared to fay* with Mr. Adams, that
upon fair experiment, the discretion of the
people of America, is found incompetent
to tiieir government ; if you be dilfatisfi
ed with your prefer.: c-nllituticn ; if you
be so wedded' to the beautiful theory of
Mr. Adams's dottrine of balances, that you
prefer it, to con!rad:Sh>g experiment*, faff;
if, like him, and the fooli/h people of lfra
el of old, you wiih for a hii-g to ride over
you, anil to judge you hie other nations,
then will you do right to place him in the
molt conspicuous offices of you, govern
men:;ihen wi ! l yu«do light tochauntyour
ilaudits to r.iin in your public and your
private worlhip ; tin will "you do right,
to canonfe him as theJi r f tw defilt. from
tht fooljh attempt of administering a go
vernment founded upon content, as t ie
fir/l to d fcover and the jir/l to glory in
avowing it to the wo.ld, tli.it tnc Ame
rican people, upon fan cxpeitnient, ...e
incompetent to govern themselves ', and
diminifii not the honor and glory of a dil
covery, so confnnant to the dignity and
Oleajmg to thejeelings of human nature, and
so honourable to its author. But if )ou
be not prepared to go ail these lengths
with Mi. Adams; if you wish to persevere
in the happy and honorable experiment
of governing yourselves ; if you wish not
a k ing ; if you be not prepared to open
your purses to pay his ordinary and extra
ordinary revenues, his church, his armies,
his placemen, his pentioners &c. &c. and
in short, to defray the cxpences of your own
(la-very ; then, abandon Mr. Adams ; an
nihilate his political existence ; stigma
tize him as the calumniator ps your wit
dom and your virtue ; liigmatize him as
the full innovator upon the sacred and fun
damental principles of your constitution
and laws ; ftigmalize him as a man intox
icated with props and checks and ba.aiues ,
liigmatize him as an apcjlatcUoxa his owr
political ere ".1 ; and, what is worse as a
apoilale from your political creed and th«
political crecd of ycur constitution.
Perhaps those who have been accultom
ed to fee Mr. Adams move in an exalted
ftstion, may at firft conceive these denun
ciations too severe : for their juilitication,
I appeal to fadls. Is Mr. Adams the
avowed champion for a ling, lards and
commons ? Does the conltitution of the
United States proscribe the idea or kings
lords a.i*l commons ? Does Mr. Adams
rejoice that the United States have advan
ced one Itep towards this fprcies of go
vernment ? Would he not rejoice at their
moving another step ? and to proceed, step
by Rep until they had effe&ed his wifhets:
Dnes Mr Adams prefer the superior and
d llinCi privileges i f a certain hereditary
titled ie.e, to the equal rights of ail ? If
these q lections can with truth be anlwcred
in the affirmative,then no political dilgrace
canbetho't a sentence unjiift, unmerci
ful, or severe.
The gratitude of Ameiica has been
challenged in favour of Mr. Adams, and
his former services held up as objefls
which demand the exercise of this grati
tude. If Mr Adams fhail have tendered
si >nal services to America, which I will
not deny, becatife I know nothing to the
contrary, acknowledge them, and remu
nerate them amply ; but to place him ir
the highest office of government, when
the greatest mifchiefs may be wrought by
the improper cxercife of his talents, when
he boldly aflevts, that his opinion* mili
tate jgainft its firft and most effentia!
principles, would lose the name of grati
tu !e ; it would be the excess of folly, ol
madncjt of tnconftflcncy. It has been the
oh' :' jf this to oiT'T to the pubhe
fo.ne conude'rations again It t lie proprieu
of ele&ing Mr. Adams to the next vice
presidency. It willoethc object of another
t;> (late some fadls refpe£(ing the politica
;hara£ter of governor Clinton, with form
additional remarks refpefting Mr. Adams.
A Uniform FcderaliJ.
D.J'.r Prieflly's two letters ;the firJl to tht
Electoral ujfembly of the department rj
Qrne, which hud elected hitn as ttjeu dej u
ty to tht national convention ; the other,
addrejfed to tht national convention.
Sep 21, Fourth year of Liberty
" Gentlemen,
« J HAVEjult received, and confidet
as a very distinguished lienor, the invitati
on of your department to fit in the ap
proaching national convention of l 1 ranee
Such an office is certainly at this time, ol
the utmost importance on the theatre o;
the world ; as the peace and b ppinefs
uot only of your country, but of all Eu
rope and perhaps of the whole hurr.at
race, tire very particularly inteielled i
every thing which may be decided in that
affenibly ; but my inSbtrfed knowledge oi
your language, local circuo'iftances, and
the important duties of my present fituati
-011, prevent me from accepting your :nvi
tation. r-cfides, my studies having been
principally directed towards philosophy
and theology and not particularly to
wards lefifiation, little could be expeited
from me in refptft to that fciencc ; but
in everv cafe in which my abilities win
permit me to advance an opinion cf any
weight, it shall always be at their service
through the medium of my _ friend and
corvefpondent Francais, who is also cho
sen a member of the conventional aflembly.
«'As a miniftcr of religion, the objed
of my most earned defues is your happi
ntfs. I sincerely pray, that the fuprcme
being, the 1 father and friend of mankind,
whose providence directs ail events; may
deftro", the machinations of your enemies,
and put an end to the troubles with
which vou are nov.' agitated ; c.nd may lu
give a fpetdy and happy eitabhfhment it
your affairs.
" I offer up this prayer both as a
Frenchman and an Fnghfhman, since we
have at length made the happy diicqver)
so long kept a secret only by the ambiti
on of courts, that France and Engkcc
[Total No. 115.]
(neighbouring nations) have an equal ia
terelt in being fridrds with each other.
" I am, &c.
« J. PRIESTLEY."
" Gentlemen.
" I have just received from M. Fran*
cais the information of my being admit
ted a citizen of France by the late aflem
bly, and of my nomination to tlie nation
al convention, by the department of Orne.
Both these appointments I consider as
the greatest of honours that can be confer
red On me, whiift France in conferring
them on itrangers (though in my cafe she
ias been led to over rate the meiit of an
individual) has fhowo a generous difpofi
:ion, to associate all nations in the com
mon cause of liberty, and the rights «£
man.
" The honour of citizenfkip I grateful !
y accept for myfelf, as I did for my son '
We will both endeavour to difeharge the
duties of good citizens of France, without
violating any that are due to our native
:ountry, which I trust will henceforth be
united with you (as it is our best intercft)
in the (Iridteft bonds of paternal concord.
But the honour of the important appoint
ment to the national convention, I mult
beg leave to decline, from the full convic
tion that I have of my incapacity to dif
:ha>ge all its du : ieß. In tie lift of these
deficiencies I might enumerate, my im
perfect knowledge of the language, and
my ignorance of the local circumstances
jf the country, and molt of all, that by
my acceptance of the office, I shall ex*
:'itde some o.tur prfon, who must be
"o much better inflrudted than myfelf ia
.hefe, as he raay be in other essential and
molt important refpedts.
«* Whiift then I am compelled to de
fine the acceptance of this dignified fitn
ition, raay I presume to take the advan*
:age which my ra?.k of citizen gives me,
to offer to you occasionally, my opinion*
an some cf the intercfting fubjefts which
inuft r.eceflarily come before y<.u. As a
•itizen of the world, your liberality wou'd
■mbol ienme. As a citizen of France,
pur adoption invites me. I cannot re
main an uninterested observer, and as myj
iiftance will allow me to view fomet mes
r. itli more calmness those scenes in which
I'ou will be bufiiy engaged, permit me,
.hrough some channel, to suggest hypo
th-rtically the refsilt of my observations,
i, hich (hall be offered in the true spirit cf
iffedtioii and partiotifiYi, howevet ciefec
ive '.hey may be in information and
udgment.
" Considering your revolution as a new
ind moll important sera in the hillory of
nan, I cannot fufficient'y cxprefsthe con
:crn which I feel at this eventful moment
"or its fticccfs. The national convention
s not going to legislate for France alone,
out for Europe and the world. On its
uccefs the happiness of mankind is fuf
tended. It were fupelfhiov.s to urge
any other motive than the extent and fa
•redhefs of the trust. This savage con
piracy oflyrants cannot inflict a wound,
hey will rather ferVc to hasten the pro-
Mess ofliberty, which sedition, lawless
noler.ee, and internal discord only can
iow arrefl, and if continued, mud inevi
tably deitroy. J.PRIESTLEY.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
Paris, Sep 26 General view of ike
State ifEurope as it refpeßs the French
t-epubiic [addrejfed ly the mir.ifier of so.
reign affairs to the national convention.']
"The principles adopted among us have
brought upon us the hatred, of all kings
and of all governments, but the people are
our friends. The crisis in which the re
public now stands is tot the mo ft dange
rous } it: the t ; n iit;>;, all the king! sf Eu»
:ope will U leagued aga/nft us." If we have every thing to fear from
their hatred to our republic, their mutual
jealousy and niiftruft, as well as a variety
of other circum'.iances which may happen
in the course of fix months, ought- to tree
us from every uneafmefs.
" That woman of the north, who, for
twenty year., has disturbed the peace ol
Europe, Itill threatens uS ; ihe tIHI an
nounces the arrival of her troops, and yet
ine (Hll detains them through a dread ol
feeing herfelf oppressed by her neighbours.
'■ We are told that thirty thou fane]
Ruffians are coming to join those armies
which are now fighting again ft our liber
ty—those thirty thousand' men have nol
yet palled the frontiers of Poland. We
have been told of ihips in the White lea :
those Ihips have returned to the port o]
Cronfhult, because they had neither pro
visions nor ammunition. A fleet wai like
wise laid to be corning from the Blae!<
sea, but this fleet, folong announced, ha:
not yet appeared. Belides, to fend a fleei
through the of Conltantinople woulc
be violating every kind of treaty with tla
Ottoman Porte, which is not much dispos
ed to grant favors to the heroine of th(
north.
"Poland, a prey to infeftine divisions
can undertake nothing abroad.
" Denmark, its interests require thai
it (hould observe the ftriftefl neutrality.
"The court of Vienna has at lengtf
prevailed upon the German empire to de
clare war again'.t France. We may ex
pect that the Diet of Ratslbon will foor
formally notify to us this resolution.
" The union of the courts of Berli;
and Vienna has been blamed by all pow
ers. The war which they carry oh again!
us cannot fail of being prejudicial to them
selves.
" A secret fermentation which increafe
every day, prevails at Berlin. Frederic!
has demanded a reinforcement of 30,00 c
inen; They cannot be sent 16 him with
out incurring the danger of an insurrec
tion. He can hope for no further affiit
ance in money, and the treasures accumu
lated by Frederick the Great, are exhauit
cd.
" There is a secret intelligence betweei
the cabinet of St. James and that of the
Hague. Those two courts seem to follov
the fame fyrtem, and they have declarec
that they mean to observe a ftri& neutra
lity. All their protestations, however
ought not to inspire us with N con ; idence
Holland has not taken up arms againll us
but itfurnilhes certain supplies to ourene
lilies ; and though England has but a ver<
small fleet in it has such refour'
ces as may enable it to equip a very for
midable one in a moment.
"Spain has "only 25,000 men ready tc
march against us. We need not doub
that this court will take a very active pari
in the war against the French republic. A
Bourbon is upon the throne of Spain, anc
he wishes to avenge the Bourbons.
" The petty princes of Italy always fol
low that plan which is dictated to their
by the strongest party."
London, Sept. aB. The fubfeription foi
the relief ol the Polanderj, which wa:
open only a few days,amounted to 40161. is.
Since receiving the news of the unfortu
nate iflue of their rtruggle for liberty, the
money has been refunded to the fnbfcri
bers. Previous to the resolution for re
funding—at a general meeting of the sub
scribers, he following declaration was b\
them made public :
" We had hopes of being able to contri
bute, in some degree, to the afliftance o:
the people of Poland.—These hopes have
been defeated by the fuccefsful operation:
of afuperiorforce, which the Polifhnatior
exertingtheu- utmost unafliftedettortsinde
fence of their country, had no power t<:
reiift. Our oniy duty now is to declarc
our opinion of these transactions. The
only coniolation left us is to reflect, thai
we have done every thing that dependec
on individuals, to rescue the character oj
the.Britiih nation from the scandal and dii
ho.iour of affecting a. base neutrality, o:
of 100 .ia - 0:1 with indi.Te.-euce, wniie the
independence of a great kingdom, and the
freedom of a considerable portion of man
kind, were facrificed to lawle.s violence
and cruflied under the dominion of a fo
reign tyranny.—The fact is atrocious:
but the precedent is alarming. In the ru
in ofonehelplef inofFcufive nation,the othei
States of Europe and this country in par
ticular, ought to fee an example, and war
ning of the principles and ppame'e of aci
bition, which they may experience in theii
turn.
We cannot be perfoaded, that the ra
pid progrefa and approach ofmilitarypow
er, that the apparent resolution of a great
confederacy to divide the continent of Eu
rope among them are objects and events ir
which the nation hai no concern. Is it a
thing to be believed, that the king of Po
land would have been deserted, as he ha
been, by the natural enemies and rivals oi
Rullia, h th-.s couqiieft had not made part
of a more extenlive system, concerted a
mong them, of which Poland is only the
firft vi-tim, and which is to furnifh the
meansofequalaggrandizementto the other
contracting parties. We may rely on OBt
interna! ftreugth, or we may confide in
our lituation. But what solid fecuritv
have we, that thu powerful confederacy
may not be able to create, or collect a ma
ritime force, fuflicientto contend with the
navy of' Great Britain ? If that should ever
happen, a (ingle event might lay this illand
open to the fame armies ofdifciplined bar
barians, to which die reft of Europe may
have been compelled to submit. When
the force is fufficient, the pretences never
fail. In the cafe of Poland, there was
none. All we have heard is, that it did
not suit the views ofßuflia, that a limited
monarchy, an hereditary crown, or a rea
sonable constitution of any kind, (houie!
have a law to appeal to, or a government
to protect them.
We submit thefc reflections to the wis
dom and generosity of the nation, with *
thorough conviction, that on this subject,
their wisdom and their generosity will leae'
them to the fame conclusion.
We have no doubt of the success of out
former addrefles to the public, and that ;
fnm would have been collected, which ii
would have been honorable in us to offer,
and to the Poiifh nation to have accepted.
But the objeAis gone. We have there
fore determined, that the several films sub
"cribed frail be returned to the subscribers.
deducting a small per centage to defray the
;xpentes incurred."
fFrcm tie Leyden Gazette.2
Leyden, Sept- 27. A people, like thf
French. w!io have mafl'acred several of the
ncit zealous partizansof their own revo
.ution. because they thought it would be
:o the interest of France to establish a li
mited monarchy, will hardly ip.tre the
ivesof those august personage.», \\ honi tin
eaders of anarchy will always coniider.
while they live, as Handing in the way o!
heir imaginary republic. The French
lowever, therafelves seem sensible of the
mpolicy of any step against the life of hi:
najefty. England (fays one of their pa
pers) will never intermeddle in the wai
:ga;uft France, if the French only confide]
:he lives of the king and queen as sacred
DUt should the ast be committed, they wil
molt I'ffiiredly join in it with all theii
Trength. It is 110 less certain that the
eaders of the present party, that have
nade trance a theatre of blocd and car
luge, begin to think e>f ensuring them
elves an asylum at all events, as well a:
Halting it agreeable by holding in pofTefiioi
1 great part of the riches of the nation
:hat have been lately pillaged. On thi:
abject we have received a printed paper
:o the following effect, (but for the au
:hent:city ot which we do not vouch : )—
' Secret inftru&ions to M. deSemcinviUe
" rench ambafiador at Court antinople, frou
:he alfembly of the nation It is evi
lent that in the present disposition of the
everal European powers towards France
here is a despotic combination against oui
iberty. The moil important members o
his combination are the empress of Russia
he king of Hungary, and the king ofPruf
ia, and under their banners are united fe
'eral weaker powers, foes to our confti
ution. It therefore becomes our duty te
lifTolve the league by all means polfible
incl to fuw diviiions among the coniponen
nembers. The allirtance of the Turkifl
nnpire would be imnienfely serviceable
>ut such afliltance must be indirect, by ex
-'■ting 1 urkeyto intermeddle in the trou
bles of Poland. !':«• this purpose twe
Millions will be furnifued to M. Semou
/:lle, from the national treasury, belide;
ix miilions he has already received, ta be
at his own elifcretionary disposal. The
.wo million:; are to be expanded in bribing
.lie \ izir anel the Reis F.ifendi to favor the
lemands eif Poland : another sum is to be
expended in paving spies te> be employee
about the Rullian minister, the Nuncio, ane
i : ie_ Engliih ambaflador. If. the Crane
' is tor war, ?>I. Semonville is te> otic:
him four frigates, with guns, and ammu
nition, sis alubfiely. The declaration is tobe
maele with ali pollible expedition, in favoi
ot Poland, in-order to divert the whole
:orce of Ruilia to that quarter ; and a:
there is an appearance of Poland beinr
partitioned between the three above nam
ee! powers, a diversion on the title of Tur
key will oblige them to unite their whole
tome pgjinft Poland, and thereby afford u:
an opportunity tei fettle our constitution
or foment lalhng diviiions among the three
iio_t:!e powers.—lt will be a matter o]
fbuie consequence. too, to know from the
Turks, whether, in cafe of things not suc
ceeding with the French patriotic party,
they will grant them an asylum in the if.
lands of Candy and Cyprus, if the purchase
d! one of the Archipelago islands lliouhl be
reiufed, for which purpose presents are tc
be maele to the 1110 ft influential ininifters.
If the patriots may depend upon such ar
asylum, they will, in cafe of elifafler, retire
thither with all their immense riches, which
v, ill be no (mall acquisition to flie interefh
of the Porte."
M. Petion, late mayor of Paris, is now
m fas Preiident of the national con
vention) President of France. M. Con
elorcet is \ ice-President, by a large majo
rity ot votes.—From the 21ft of Septem-
L'.-r jII oifici-tl aits whatever in France are
to I-.p ciat -ei from t'le iirlt year of the re
public. Ihe great seal of the nation is
fleered, being i o a the Roman fafecs f::r
mounted with the cap of liberty. On >'r--
reverse is the legend, "La F.rpublique
I Franjaife,"—The decree again!! choohng
judges from among lawyers only, and
making a person eligible from any'clafs of
citizens, has given great fatisfactibn to the
people, and effectually checked the arillo
cracy of •the law.
TltOVGlirS ON CONSTITUTIONS.
[Tranfluted from the writings of the Mar
quis de Condorcet. ]
_ i ft. THE constitution of a state, or s
city, ancl the constitution of the human bo
dy are comparatively one and the fame
thing. The principles that render both one
ant! the other durable, are the fame. Bui
if you imprudently attempt to confoune
the conlhtntion of the human body witl
the direction or government of that body,
the lame evils are to be apprehended thai
always follow the application of the bel !
principles, when badly understood. In
itead of advancing by repeated efforts tc
perfect immutability, fiinplicity, and uiii
verfaliry of legifiation, you. will fall fron
precipice to precipice, remote, and alway:
itp Hated from the important whole. At
tached by a superstitious regard to a go
vernment which may have some tranlien
charms, you feel 110 elelire to change it
which nevertheless mud change with th<
increase or diminution of your strength
Children ehoofe the government of ful
grown men ; men advanced to years o
discretion do nevertheless prefer to be go
verned by the aged, while the aged in thei.
turn are fond of iubmitting to the domi
nion of boisterous and unexperiencee
youth.
ad. Man has a body (and what parti
cularly constitutes him man, is a head ele
vated towards the heavens) bones, feet
hands, and a prodigious variety of vein
or channels for the general circulation c
the fluids. But in the human constitution
the divinity called by us nature, has form
cd 110 part detached or separate. She ne
ver vet made a human head diftin£t fron
the body, arms disunited from the cartafe
or the organs of perception unconnettei
wHh the corporeal frame. What mad
lief:;, then, is it in the political conftitutioi
of a state or country to privilege any par
with being the head and fentencing'ano
ther to fsrve eternally the purposes of thi
feet !
3;:. Theconftitution-politic and the con
flitution-natural are an inelivilible whole
which does not depend either for its lorn
or powers of action upon any system o:
government whatever. It either exist
pjlitive'y, or exil'.s not at all. Let th:
political constitution-have in like mannei
an immutable system of superior and infe
rior fun£tions, with all the proper chan
nels of circulation. It will be perfect, i
will be eternal, if it only takes it patten
from the original constitution of nature
But let us not go astray by pursuing ai
absurd and jarring system. Governmen 1
is notconilitution. The government ol
a state, like the management of the body
is more or 1- f. perfect when every indivi
dual particle offpirit. belonging to thegrea'
whole, circulates unprivileged throughout
the body, a:;d arrives in its turn with thf
blood, when fufneiently filtrated, to the
(eat of the purer ipirits, productive of sub
lime ideas, grand and excellent contem
plations. Herein is formed the will, tha
gives motion to the body, and which pre
pares for it its various enjoyments—anc
this volition will always incline to virtue
when it proceeds from the general confeni
of the gre it t onliiturional whole.
4th. The spirit of a nation, in a rea
revolution, vibrates through all its parts
and reels, as it were, the shock from ai
electrical machine. They have but on;
sentiment in general, but thisfer.tinient i 1
awakened by the exercise of reason. 1
it he the care then of enlightened nier
gradually to dillipate the reign of igno
rance, to extend the horizon of thought,
to inculcate the lupremacy of reason, anc
leave the reft to time, that brings all
to maturity.
jth. Governments, like the individual:
that go to compose them, have at all time:
been fubjeft to error. But henceforware
let us follow nature (which is never re
trograde) in our path to universal light,
All that is perilhable, or liable to change,
in the constitutions contrived by man, i:
not copied from the constitution of nature,
Friends of truth and of the fupremacv 01
reason, lose not your courage I There i
now in th° world a free and generous 1 act
of men who are every where planting th>
feeds of truths, which in due time lhal
produce a new creation in government ;
a constitution, whole universality lhall be
the proof of its excellence ; and which ir
beiug JUST to all alike, (hall prove itfell
to be the constitution fit for man: whicl
lhall be perpetual because the nations wil
find their common in continuini
it; and nations never die. Let the cp
prefled, then, not fink under the prefeal
weight of European, Asiatic, or America?
tyranny. i lie people, when thorough!)
awakened, will themselves cooftitute the
rbpremc civilpoy.cr of the world.
Mr. Ames's Speech in the House of Re
presentatives, on the 21ft of November,
on the motion for striking out that part
of the resolution, &c. refpecling a re
ference to the Secretary ot the Treasu
ry, on the reduction of the Public
Debt.
ITisfo fafhionable to introduce the
fupding system upon every occufion—it
would perhaps appear strange to fay, that
it is out of order upon any. To my mind
and probablv to most gentlemen prefeot,
it will be difficult to perceive, that the
question before us bears any relation to
that fubjeft, or to the frontier-bill, the ex
cise, the perpetual taxes, the encourage
ment of manufaftnres, and many other to
pics, which, somehow or other, have bee',
interwoven with the debate. At this 1? :
hour of the day, and in so wearisome a'
stage of the question, I may be permitted
to decline any further notice of these aux
iliary fubjefts.
The great end we have in view, is the
paying off the public debt—This objett,
truly important in itfelf, unites the best
sense and strongest wilhes of the country.
It is our duty to provide means for the ac
comp'ifhmem of this end. All agree that a
plan is neceflary. 11 miift be framed with
wisdom and digested with caie, so as to
operate with the greatest effect, till the
whole debtlhallbe extinguifhld. Thetrue
question is, which is the best mode ps fra
ming this system ? Several modes have
been preferred by different persons—some
advocate the appointment of a feleft com
mittee of this house, others insist that the
house in committee of the whole, is the
only proper mode, while others who de
fend the original motion, desire to have a
plan prepared, and submitted by the Se
cretary of the Treasury. It may obviate
the lorce of many of the arguments we
have heard, to remark, that it is not as
serted that either of the several modes is
intrinsically incapable of effecting the pur
pose. Itwpuld be improper to fay, that
a feleft committee could not be formed
who would be.able to collect the materi
als for an exact 'knowledge of the fubjeft;
and who, after acquiring that knowledge,
would be able to form a found judgment.
Neither would it be jtift cr refpectfi'i to
deny, in the abftraft, the capability of the
house in committee to digest such a plan.
But the question ftiil returns, which of the
three methods is the best to "begin with ?
Neither this house nor a feleft committee
are pretended to be already poflefl'ed of
the knowledge which is requisite to the
training a system for a finking fund. The
very materials from which this knowledge
is to Tje gleaned, are not in the pofleffion of
this house—they are in the treasury de
partment. Neither the curiosity nor the
legislative duty of members leads them to
resort daily to the treasury to investigate
official details ; and even if it were so, the
officer at the head of the department, ha
ving his mind incessantly occupied with his
official business, must-be admitted to pos
sess a more familiar and ready, if not a
more ample, knowledge of the subject.
Indeed the situation of the Secretary of
the Treasury is so evidently favorable to
his digesting the plan of a finking fund, that
it seems iinneceffary to urge it even to
those who are opposed to the referev.ee.
For their objections. imply the preference
of the mode in point of expediency as
strongly as those who explicitly recommend
it. They fay, the plan of the Secretary
will come forward with too much advan
tage.
Members, fay they, not having the aid
of those means of information which the
Secretary poffefies, will not be able to re
ftft the train of reasoning with which he
will introduce his plan. It is even ex
prefily admitted, that the information of
the treasury department is neceflary and
must be called for j but they would not
receive it with the rcafoning of the Secre
tary. Without wafting time to prove this
point, the most common sense will decide
inihiittly, that the knowledge of our financial
and of the means of improving
thern, is to be obtained the mod accurate
ly from the officer whose duty it is made
by our own law to understand them ; who
is appointed and coiuniiffioned for that ve
ry pnrpofe, and to whom every days prac
tice in liis office must afford some addition
al information of official details, as. well as
of the operation of the laws. The argu
ments on both fides end in the fame point,
that the information of the Secretary
would be ufeful. Our object being to pre
fer that mode of preparing apian, which
is adapted to present 11s the best ; the ar
gument might end here, if it were not
that the conftittition is alledged tofoibid
our resorting to the Secretary.
I reverence the constitution, and I rea
dily admit that the frequent appeal to that
as a Standard proceeds from a refpeftful
attachment to it So far it is a source of
agreeable rtfleclion. But I feel very dif
ferent emotions, when I find it almost dai
ly resorted to on questions of little im
portance ; when by strained and fanciful
constructions it is made an instrument of
caluiltry, it_ is to be feared it may lose
[omething in our minds in point of cer
tainty, arrd more in paint nf dignity.
And what is the claufeof the constitution
oppefed to the receiving a plan of a fink-ing fund from the Secretary ? Bills for
raising revenue (hall originate in this house.
I verily believe the members of this house,
and the citizens at large, would be ver\
much surprised to hear this clause of the
constitution formally and gravely ft a ted at
repugnant to the reference to the treasury
department, for a plan, if fhey and we had
not been long used to hear it.
To determine the force of this amazing
constitutional objection, it will be fufficieiu
to define terms.
What is a bill ? it is a term of technical
import, and surely it cannot need a defini
tion ; it is an aSt in an inchoate Itate, ha
ving the form but not the authority of u
law.
What,is originating a bill ? our rules de
cide it. Every bill lhall be introduced by
a motion for leave, or by a commit
tee.
It may be said the plan of a linking fund,
reported by the Secretary, is not in the
technical, or even, in popular language, a
bill—nor, by the rules of the house, or
thole of common sense, is this motion the
originating a bill. By resorting to the spi
rit of the constitution, or by adopting any
reasonable conftru£tion of the clause, is it
poilible to make it appear repugnant to the
proposition for referring to the Secretary ?
The oppofers of this proportion surely
will not adopt a construction of tlfe consti
tution. They have often told us, we are
to be guided by a Strict adherence to the
letter; that there is no end lo the danger
of conftruflions. The letter is not repug
nant ; and will it be seriously affirmed,
that, according to the spirit and natural
.meaning of the constitution, the report of
the Secretary will be a revenue bill, or a
ny other bill, and that this proposition is
originating such a bill ? If it be, where
iiiail we stop ? If the idea of a measure
which iirft * passes through the mind, be
confounded with the measure subsequent
to it, what confuiion will ensue ? The
President, by suggesting the proportion,
may as weli be pretended Lo originate a
revenue bill; even a newspaper plan would
be a breach of the exclusive privilege of
this house, and the liberty of the press, so
justly dear to us, would be found uncon
llitutional. Yet, if, without any order of
the house, the draught of an act were
printed, and a copy laid before every mem
ber in his feat, no person will venture to
fay, that it is a bill, that it is originated or
can be brought under the cognizance of the
house, unless by a motion in conformity to
the rules and orders. The report of the
Secretary in regard to manufactures, so
often adverted to, has not yet been acted
upon. Does that appear on our journals
as a bill ? Language has not yet been per
verted to such a degree, as to allttrt any
such thing ; and yet the constitutional ob
je£tion implies opinions no lels.
I rely upon it, that neither the letter of
the constitution, nor any meaning that it
can be tortured into, will support the ob
jection which has been so often urged with
solemn emphasis and persevering zeal.
If the constitution be admitted, there
fore, to authorize the reference to the' Se
cretary, why (hould not the mode which is
proved to be the most expedient be imme
diately adopted ?■ Here we meet another
objection. It is said that the legislative
and executive branches of government are
to be kept diftinft, and this reference will
produce an improper blending of them.
It is 3 truth that these departments are to
be kept distinct; but the conclusion drawn
from it is altogether vague. The execu
tion of every trust requires some delibera
tion, and many of them cal! into action the
highest powers of the human mind, and
the most intense and persevering applica
tion of them—yet these trusts are to'be ex
ecutively performed, and it by no means
follows that the officer charged with them
invades the deliberative functio '.s of Con
gress. On the other hand, many laws are
the result of plain principles or parts ot
the constitution, and Congress, by enact
ing them onfy execute the constitution.
Yet here is no encroachment upon the ex
ecutive branch. The truth is, the consti
tution has allotted powers to the several
branches of the government, and by that
rule we are to judge of their several li
mits. The President proposes measures to
the legislature in conformity to the consti
tution—yet no one ever supposed that his
doing so is a departure from a just theo
ry ; nor has it, as far as I know, been ever
insinuated till of late, in this or any other
country, that the calling for information
from officers, any more than the calling
for teftiinony from witnesses amounts to a
transfer of our legislative duty. It is ve
ry easy to conceive how much increased
information may aid us in deliberating, but
it is hard to discern how we are to profit
by the want of it. It is true it is our pe
■ culiar province to deliberate, but neither
the letter of the constitution, nor the law
eftablilhrng the treasury department, nor
the reason of the cafe have restrained n.
from calling for official information. It
is not true in faSt that the deliberative and
executive departments are blended by re
ferring to the Secretary. Any objection;
deduced from an over-refining theory, and
not warranted by the constitution, might
need an anfwfer if we were now framing
government, but can have no force in the
admjmltrstion of one. Indeed, it is -a vp
ry fchoiaftic, and very imposing mi flake to
abandon the letter and meaning of the
plan of government we ast under, and to
undertake to r'eafon independently, as if
we were now fettling the institutes of a
political treatise.
[Remainder in our next.]
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, Nov. 30.
The House, in committee of the whole,
took into consideration the Secretary cf the
Treasury's report on the petition of the
executors of Edward Carnes, for the pay
ment of the balance of an account against
the navy board of the United States in
Maflachufetts, for work done, &c. during
the war. After some debate, the follow
ing motion was agreed to, " Thar a feleft
committee ought to be appointed to en
quire and report whether any, and what
measures maybe necessary to facilitate the
"ettlement of claims against the United
States, not barred by acts of limitation,
founded upon certificates granted, or fet
:lements made by any officer or officers
leretofore authorized to ifi'ue certificates,
ir make settlements on their behalf, and
ivho have not fettled thciraccounts". —A
:ommittee was accordingly appointed ; and
rhe Secretary of the Treasury's report
referred to the fame committee.
The following motion (by Mr. Dayton)
was laid on the table—" That the
secretary of War lay before the House
1 lift of the names of the invalids return
sd to his office by the judges of the circuit
rourts —also, to report the caules ot the
liability of such persons, and the state of
the invalid penlion lift."
The House then went into committee of
rhe whole on the estimate of appropriati
ons, required for the support of govern
nen-L for 1793. After a debate of coml
jerable length; relative to detailing the
Particulars of the expenditures either in
:he journals of the House or in the ast, it
was determined by the committee that the
particulars fliould be entered on the jour
nal.—After some further proceeding, the
rommittee rose. reported progress in the
-eport, and alked leave to lit again on Moil
lav.
Mr. Page, Mr. Williamfon. and Mr.
SCittera were appointed a committee to
prepare and bring in a supplementary bill
"or amendingtheaft foreltabliftiinga mint,
md regulating the coins of the United
Jtates.
' Monday, December 3
The petition of W. and J. Si nuns, some
timefince presented, relative to the remif
(ion of duties on goods loft on the coalt of
Jersey, in coming round from New-York
Co this port, was referred to a feleft com
mittee.
A petition was read from a number of
citizens of Charleston, S. C. praying a
bankrupt law to be pafi'ed—referred to
the committee already appointed.
A letter was read from the Secretary of
theTreafury, incloling a plan for the re
duction of the public debt—Two hundred
copies ordered to be printed for the use of
the house.
Mr. Dayton renewed his motion, That
the Secretary of War lay before the house
a lift of the names of the persons returned
to his office for penlions by the circuit
courts, in pursuance of the ast for fettling
the claims of widows, &c. barred by the
limitation law, and to regulate claims to
invalid pensions. See. This motion was
grounded on the idea of the revenue being
fmpofed 011 by the admitting of improper
persons to pensions—Aster some debate,
the motion was agreed to.
A bill was brought in, dnd read the firft
time, for determining the northern boun
dary of the territory ceded by the state of
North-Carolina to the United States.
The house then, in committee of the
whole, resumed the consideration ef the
Estimate of appropriations for 1793- 1 ' le
ertimate of contingencies for the war de
partment for 179"; (50,000 dollars) was
Itruck out, and a blank left. The Esti
mate being gone through with, several re
solutions were moved pursuant thereto.,
read, and laid 011 the table. The com
mittee then rose, to fit again to-mor
row.
11l committee of the whole, some amend
ments were made to the bill for ascertain
ing the fees demandable on admiralty pro
ceedings in the courts of the United States
—when the committee rose, and reported
progress.
1 iiuiuawimam— ■
PHILADELPHIA.
December. 5.
The light-house on Cape Henry, in Vir
ginia, is now completed, and the lamps
were lighted for the firft. time on the nfghl
of November the 17th ult. The founda
tion of this building stands about fifty feel
above the level of the high water mark,
and the 'amps in clear weather may befeei
to the distance of 30 miles. The precift
latitude of the spot is 36. 56. 45. —Savan-
na Light-House, on Tybee island, took fire
about a month since, when the wooden
work was entirely consumed. Notice will
be given in the public prints when it isfo
far repaired as to be re-lighted.
The situation of France and her com
bined enemies, when the last accounts left
Europe, may be fammed up in the follow
ing ihort statement, —Li fie belieged by
20,000 men ol the enemy; Thionville by an
inferior number, but from its immense
strength no probability of its surrendering.
The French armies on the frontier,under
GeneralsMoreton,Dumourier, and Keller
mann, maintaining their ground and coun
tcrafting every eiFort of the enemy, daily
receiving additional strength, and lince the
degradation of the royal family, beginning
to be well Supplied with every requisite o{
ammunition, arms, and provilion.—Gene
ral JUontefquiou making a rapid progreSs
over Savoy, having planted the French re
publican standard at Chamberry, the capi
tal, and the Savoyards almolt every where
revolting to the cause of France.—The
French nation more and more unanimous,
and so confident of the SncceSs of their
new republican System as plainly to have
(through their general 3) rejected the offers
of the Duke of Brunfv/ick to make peace
Lipon the nation's adopting a limited mo
narchical form ol government. —The deS
potic forces, on the contrary, every where
diScouraged,/a mortal dyfefftery wafting
the Prussian army ; tlie soldiers in a man
ner starving upon a pound of bread in
three days, and filch vegetables as could
be filched from the familhed cavalry ; and
the only remaining hope of the enemy to
effeftthe refforation of deSpotiSmin France
was the" expe&ation of a universal com
bination of despots the next year, to enter
upon a crnfade against the liberties of the
French and mankind.
Yesterday (December 4th) waspubliihed,
Number I. of LE COURIER DE L' A
MERIQUE, a French gazette, of news,
politics, and entertainment, to be continu
ed twice a week (Tuesdays and Fridays)
jy the editor and printer, Mr. John Par
ker, at No. 2J9, North Second-street, in
Philadelphia.
Yesterday, at 3 P. M. the Legislature of
the (late of Pennl'ylvania met at the State-
House in this city.
On November 10, General Sevier left
Knoxville, with a troop of horse, to take
command of the frontier army, amounting
to near 1500 men.
The following are Some of the observa
tions of Mr. Smith (S. C.) in the House
of Representatives, on Wednesday last,
relative to Warner Mifflin's memorial re
commending the abolition of Negro Slave
ry—"He admitted (he Paid) in its full ex
tent the right of every citizen to petition
for aredrefs of grievances, and the duty of
the house to consider them, but the paper
ill question was not of that defcrlption ; it
was a mere rant and rhapsody of a med -
:Uing fanatic, interlarded with texts of
"cripture, and concluded,with no Specific
prayer. He observed that it was the prac
tice of legislative bodies in general to have
the contents of petitions l ead by the mem
ber in his place who presented them, in
order to judge whether they ought to be
received ; but the house had gone into a
loose practice of fullering every kind of ap
plication to be received and read at the
clerk's table—the consequence was that
the purport of them was entered on the
jouVnals; in this particular inltance the
practice was attended with real danger ;
the citizens of the southern states finding
that a paper of this nature had been re
ceived by the house, and formally enter
ed on their journals, might justly be alarm
ed, and led to believe, that doctrines were
countenanced deftruftive of their intcvefts.
The gentleman who presented the paper,
and who he observed with pain had not on
this occasion displayed his usual regard for
the southern states. had stated it; contents
to relate only to the slave-trade ; had he
stated in his place its real purport and ob
ject, namely, to create disunion among the
tates. and to excite the most horrible in
furre&ions, the house would undoubtedly
liave refufed its reception. After the pro
teedings at New-York on this fubjeft, he
aid his constituents had a right to expect
:hat it would never be stirred again ; for.
lis part, he allured the house, that while
le continued on that floor, he fiiould upoa
every iiinilar occasion, pointedly express
his abhorrence of these applications, which
were pro.du£tive of no kind of good what
ever, and had a moil mischievous tenden
cy : They were not calculated to melio
rate the condition of the perSons who were
the object of them, who are at present
happy and contented with their Situation ;
but, on the contrary, had a tendency to a
iienate their affeilion from their masters,
and by exciting a Spirit of reftlcll'nefs. to
render greater severity nt-ceffary on their
part. He therefore earnestly called upon
the house to agree to the motion, and
thereby convince this troubleSome enthu
iiaft, and others who might be diSposed to
communicate their ravings ar.d wild e!Tu
(ions, that they wiil meet that treatment
they juitly deserve ; as the prefer.t applica
tion was ciifrefpectful to the tyoufe. insult
ing to the Southern members, and a libe.
011 their constituents, it ought no longet
to remain on the table, but returned tc
its author with marked disapprobation.
CAT-ISLAND.
THIS island. one of the Bahamas, is re
markable as being the firft land on whiclr
Columbus let foot in America, and where,
for the firft time, the nations of two dis
tant parts of the globe were introduced ta
each other. Cat-Iflarid, called by the ail
cieiit native Indians Guanihani, lies
between the twenty-fourth and twenty
fifth degrees of north latitude, and in a
bout the 76th degree of wefterri longitude
from the meridian of London. Such tra
vellers as visit Providence, frequently take
a trip from thence to Cat-Island, ninety
miles distant, to gratify curiolity, and fealfc
their eyes with a scene, which tho' other
wise unimportant, commands every token
of enthufiaflic refpe£t from the memory
of the Hluftridlif marine hero that firft
rlropt a European anchor here three hun
dred years ago.
Cat-Illand is long, and generally nar
row, the 1110 ft easterly of the northern Ba
hamas, and lies clear of the Bahama Bank.
In length it is about forty-three miles, fe
yen in breadth on an average, and extends
from north to louth. The ihores are in
molt parts faced with reefs of lharp rocks
lying about half a mile, frequently less,
From the land, and on the wellern fide ex
rending to a much greater distance. Be
:ween tliefe reefs and within them there is
;ood anchorage on a sandy bottom, and
:he landing is not very difficult, particu
larly on the western ihore ; except there
lias recently been strong northwesterly
Tales, a circumstance »ot lb common here
is in higher northern latitudes.
This lirft discovery of Guanihani could
lot have inspired very elevated hopes in
'.he crew of Columbus. The foil is gene
rally barren, being a loose dry sand cover
?d with (mail woods, in some places almost
impenetrable, and infected with millions
jf lizards, some guanas, and several fpe
:ies of land-crabs, which, with a few goats
ind wild hogs, might have beenjuftly de
nominated the lords and sole pofiefiors of
he foil till the pirates, and latterly some
ettlers from Providence, planted them
elves on these barren Ihores. In other*
jlaces of the iGand there is tolerable goxid
:iinber, and towards the centre several
"mall woody hills that have not an unplea
ant appearance from the sea ; but in ap
>roaching these you are not unfrequently
nterrupted with salt-ponds and inundated
ihickets of brulhwood. To make amends
7 or the barrenness of the foil, there is good
idling and turtling on the coasts, and this
null have been the principal resource, for
"ood, of the ancient Indian inhabitants.
There are several ruins of buildings
lere which lhow fornething of antiquity—
hey appear to have been rude walled edi
ices, coaftru£ted from broken rock* and a
oft white Hone found in many parts of
he illand ; and are generally supposed to
>e the ruins of chapels and other ftruc •
urea ere£ted here by Columbus and his
:iews. I am rather' inclined to think,
lowever, from an attentive infpettion
ome years ago, that they are either the re
nains of Indian antiquity, or of forts, &c.
milt by the pirates; tho' the latter is not
cry likely, as it is well known the princi
>al reforc of the pirates, or bucanneers was
it Providence.
Altho' Columbtis firft discovered it from
he eastward, it is to be presumed, from
everal circumstances, he landed from a
>ay 011 the fouthsveftern part of the island.
■■uture times may poilibly deem it worth
heir while to eretl some conspicuous mo
lumcnt on this, or some other part of
juanihani, in commemoration of one of
he greatest events that perhaps ever the
ivorld witnefled.
The following lines, from Drydert, are
inely descriptive of the ideas that may be
uppofed to have palled in the mind of ail
Indian, upon firlt viewing Columbus's
quadron from the lliores of Guanihani:
'• I went in order, (ir, to your command,
ro utmost limits of the land ;
Fo that rude coalt, where no more world
is found,
3ut foaming fnrges btirft upon the ground :
There for a while my eyes no object met
3ut distant ikies that in the ocean set,
ind low-hung clouds, that dipt themselves
in rain
To lhake their fleeces on the earth again :
At last, as far as I could call: my eyes
Something, methought, did on the billows
rife
Like blackKh spots, which still approach
ing more
Tock dreadful forms, and mov'd toward
the lhore,
The obje£ts I could firft distinctly view,
Were tall, straight trees that on the wa
ters flew,
Wings on their boughs, instead of leaves,
did grow
That gather'd every blast the winds could
blow,
And at their feet full many a palace lay
Guided by men that fail'd the watry way."
PRICE OF STOCKS,
Six per. cents. 2jf\
Three per cents. 12/6
Deferred, 13/3
N- American 35
Bank U. S. 45Manongahela's address to the Supervisor of
the JLxcifejor the dijlriti of
Pennsylvania.
[Continued from our last and concluded.]
WAVING for a moment the ques
tion, whether their combination
was right or wrong, the honorable Super
visor's memory may readily supply him
with a precedent Recently after the de
claration of independence, and the eftab
lilhnaent of the constitution of Pennsylva
nia, an affociatiotv was cemented, not by
the remote and uninformed inhabitants,
but by the refpedtable, the enlightened,
the influential citizens of Philadelphia,
with the express purpose of preventing
the operation aud deltroying the exill
ence of our government; and this, too,
at a crisis when the Hate was exposed to
all the dangers of an hollile invasion.—
Those who deemed themselves bed able to
serve their country, thus combined to de
sert her in her dillrefs, they declared that
they would accept no offices under the go
vernment, nor alfociate with, or aid those
who affilted in it 3 adminiltration. The
conditution of Pennsylvania could not be
altered, without having recburfe to the
people, (the laws of Congress have not
that quality) and, after all there wa3 no
fuggellion, that in iis principles it was
partial, unjull oroppreffive ; but only that
it was defedlive, according to the con
ceptions of its opponents, in fabric and
political arrangement. To the itiftruments
of association here mentioned, as well as
to the declaration of independence, the
honorable Supervisor put his hand. What
then, let me a(k, was the (late and cha
radter of that society, if the refoluti >ns
of the committee at Pittfburg conilitute,
throughout the western counties, insurgen
cy and revolt ; and not only those who
entered into the resolutions, but every man
who chances to breathe with them the
fame air, or cultivates the fame foil, mull
be doomed to one common ignominy and
punishment ? Far be it from me to entct
into a vindication of either of those aflb
ciations ; but if precedent can at all avail
to vindicate what is wrong, the Philadel
phia scheme excuses the Pittlburg resolves ;
which indeed is so much the less culpable,
as it is only an irtegular opposition to an
oppressive law, while the other was a di
redl attack upon the government.
But if every outrage on public officers
conllitutes insurgency, in what predica
ment was the city of Phi'addphia a few
years ago, when the representatives of the
people attending at the capital, to dis
charge their legislative fundtions, were
mobbed by the citizens; their lodgings vio
lently broken intoin the dead of the night,
and their persons forcibly and ignomini
oufly dragged through the public flreet3 ?
The honorable Supervisor was at that
difgraceful period a member of the gene
ral assembly ; and, though he did not af
lid in the adtual violence that was com
mitted,the rioters,(for I may not fayinfur
gents) were classed among his friends, and
their objedt was to promote a favourite
measure—a measure which he himfelf had
introduced at a time, and in a manner cal
culated to stimulate and jullify oppoiit/on
thereto. But perhaps in the present or
der of things, the legislative reptefenta
tivesof the people are less refpedtable than
the officers of the excise ; and, (a differ
ence in the place making a difference in
the fin) what is called a breach of the
peace in the city of Philadelphia, becomes
an adt of insurgency and rebellion in the
counties near the Ohio.
It is time to refledl seriously on the con
sequences of the petulant conduit of the
officers of government. It surely cannot
be the interetl of the union, nor is it the
duty of its officers, to interpret adts of in
d'ifcretion into crimes ; or to rrtuhiply ar
tificially the magnitude, and numbers of
offences and offenders. lam certaia that
a difaffedtion to the government of the
union does not exist in any part of the
weltern counties. It is well known in
deed, that the moll refpedtable characters
who were foremoll in their zeal and adli
vity for the adoption of the federal conlli
tution, are likewise the moll solicitous for
the repeal of the excise law ; upon the in
jullice of which (let Mr. Clymer fay what
he will) an opinion remarkably unanimous
prevails, founded on fadts and experience,
and not on theories and conjectures. But
that the opposition to the execution of
the law, and the abuse of the officers act
ing under it, are fomented, or in any de
gree countenanced by the magillrates, the
clergy, and the refpe&able inhabita nts > is
an assertion equally malicious and unfund
ed. These gentlemen, at whom the Su
pervisor particularly aims his fhafts,
ought, I am well informed, to be peculi
arly exempted from any imputation of vi
olence in their own conduct, or encoura
ging it in the condudt of others. The
president of the diftri<ft is so publicly call
ed upon, that he will probably think it
proper to explain and jullify the part
which he has adted ; and, I am greatly
miilaken, if his explanation will not be as
much to his own honor, as to the discre
dit of his aflailant's fortitude and candor.
With refpe<?t to the person in Wellmore
land, who is exhibited to the public eye
as the great-eft, though the moll covered
enemy to the government, and its laws,
he may appeal with confidence to his pri
vate correfponderice, and more general
conversations for an acquittal. It has
been his fate indeed to be charged, in the
Pittfbui-gh Gazette, with having been a
promoter of the excise, while the Super
visor diltinguilhes him a3 its mod power
ful adveifary. Neither of the flander3,
however, will do'him any injury; parti
cularly the latter, while it relts on the so
litary assertion of Mr. Clymer, without
quarrel to provoke, or evidence to support
it. The paramount influence ascribed to
the Weftmorelaod character, is another
proof of the Supervisor's ignorance of the
habits and manners of the people whom he
has traduced. No man is there so eleva
ted above his fellow-ciiizens. The es
tates are so equal, and the modes of life
so similar, that influence depends upon
merit alone ; and thank heaven ! good
sense is not so rare, nor other species of
merit so uncommon as to be the monopo
ly of one individual.
i I cannot close my animadversions with
out a few remarks upon the less excep
tionable paffagesof Mr. Clymer' memorial.
He lays', that " to have adventured at all
througli a country so circumltanced, was
more dangerous, perhaps, than to have ta
ken an honorable chance in an Indian
! war.' How callous mud be the bread
j that is capable of insulting the calamities
! of his fellow-citizens with such a compari
son ! Ihe horrors of an Indian war who
| can describe, that has not felt ! Buc let
, that pass : Mr. Clymer may fettle it in
the account with his conscience and his
feelings.
Can the supervisor tell us what were
these circumstances of terror which so
llrongly agitated his mind, and from which
; he happily found devices to rescue his per
son ? He acknowledges that near Pitts
burgh the people are reputed to be tem
perate ; and he certainly was apprised,
that in his way to those temperate peo
ple* he pallid through the county of
Wellmoreland, whose inhabitants had
made no attacks upon excise officers ; had
threatened no man's scalp ; had formed
no resolutions to llarve collectors; and
J though equally averse to the excise duty
had fought for its repeal only in a consti
tutional way.
The Supervisor fays, that he difraiffed
his guard when he palled the Irilh fettle
tlements. Irish settlements !—There are
no settlements in the parts where he tra
velled, known by that name. It is an in
vidious reflexion calculated to convey the
idea, that the liifh are the only inhabi
tants of that diftridt, who iire opposed to
the excifs ; and could only be Uttered by
a man who on the floor of Congress at
New-York was capable of comparing all
the citizens on the well fide of the Alle
ghany mountains, to the rude inhabitants
of Siberia.
Is it j)offible that a person concealing
his name, or palling under a feigned one
for days together, a3 Mr. Clymer did in
Bedford; or leaving the road and enter
ing the woods, when a peaceable travel
ler approached; and also refufing to call
at the moil decent and rifpedtable houses,
even to have his horse fed, &c. &c. as he
did on the road with M'Dermot, in a part
of the country too, where danger had
not been threatened—l fay is it peffible
that in this way a person could execute a
ny office ? Mr. Clymer has done more to
defeat the execution of the excise law, and
irritate the people against it than the
Pittlburgh committee with all their re
solves.
Upon the whole, I lament the tendency
more than the drfamothn of the Supervi
sor's elTay. It is calculated to inflame the
passions of the moll discreet and orderly
class of citizens on our wellem frontier;
and if it Ihould be the means of fedu;ing
any of the principal departments of go
vernment into similar sentiments, the moll
fatal discord may ensue. These eflefts
however, will, I trust, be prevented j and,
when Mr. Clymer discovers that concili
ating manners, as well as energy of con
du£t ; that the confidence of the people,
as well as the authority of his commission,
are necessary to the execution of his of
fice j we may hope that his seasonable re
treat from public life will gratify the wi(h
of the people, and render unnecefTary a
salutary exercifc of ths President's prero
gative of remotal.
MONONGAHELA.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
November I 79 3 -
D. B Bar. Tber. W.nd. Weath.
Tue/day, 20. 7 29-. 7 45 N. Cloudy.
2 29. 8 r <;i NJ. W. Fair.
JVcdncjday, 2i. 7 30. 5 37 N.YV. l air.
1 30. 7; M.W. do.
: Tburjday, 22. 7 30* 3, 35 L. Cloudy.
1 -Ot 2c 36 N.E. Snou.
briday, 23. 7 29. 3 34 N.E. Ram.
? 29. 6"? 36 do. do,
'Saturday, 24. 7 2c;. 5 33 N. E. Cloudy.
" 2Q. c; 37 N. do.
Sunday, 25. 7 30. c 32 itf.VV. Fair.
2 T.O- 0£ 42 do. do.
Monday t / 26. 7 30. zc 30 6.W.
2' 30. 1 50 ] do. do.
geography.
Mathew Carey.
RefpC&fiilly lubmits to tile Citizens of the Un- !
tea States, the following
PROPOSALS
TOP. PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION)
An AMERICAN EDITION of
Guthrie's Geography
impro v t D.
cf nubicb tbefe are the terms :
I. "TT fliall be published in 48 weekly numbers,
JL cach containing three fteets, or twenty
four pages) oi* letter press, in quarto, printed
with new types on fine papei
-11. In the course of the work will be deli
vered about thirty large maps, of the fame size
as those in the European edSrions vifc. most ol
them (heet maps on post paper .
{Cjp Eejides the maps in the Rritijb editions,
this ivork ivill contain maps cf as many of tbc
United States as can be readily procured, ekecuttd
by the beji engravers in the United States.
111. '1 he price of each number will be a quar
ter dollar, to ,be paid on delivery.—ad
vatic required. ,
IV. The woilt will be put to press as scon as
£00 copies are fubferibed for.
V. Subscribers who disapprove of the
vtfoVk, On the publication cf the three firft num
bersj are to be at liberty to return them, and
lhall havs their money repaid.
VI. The fubferibers* names shall be prefixed a;,
patrons of iitc ujjoeitaking.
Perhaps there Is bo science rrtore entertaining
and ufeful than geography. It reveals the dil
coveries of travellers—the remarkable curiosities
of all countries, in nature and art—the situati
on of provinces, cities, towns villages, rivers
and mountains—in fine, the history, manners,
customs, laws, forces, revenues, and government
of different nations.
It is an old observation, that ct there is not a
son or daughter of Adam, but has fume concern
With geography, 1 ' and that a knowledge of this
science is indifpertlable towards the ftud\ of his
tory with advantage or latisfa&ion. Indeed a
man unacquainted with it, cannot discourse on
the nmoft cpmmon newspaper topic of the da)
without betraying his ignorance.
So much fi/r geography generally. With ref
pe<st to the present plan, let it (office to remaik,
thatGuchrie's Geography has been acknow
ledged to be the best in the Englirti language}
however, the account of America in it has, fiom
obvious rcafons, been very erroneous and defec
tive. The errors of former editions will be cor
reded, and the defects (up* lied* by gentlemen of
abilities, who have engaged to superintend this
undertaking, and to avail themleivcs of all the
information that can be procured, to render ii
the moll complete edition e»tant.
The Printer earnestly foliciu the support of
iiis fellow citizens throughout the United Stat«s :
and as no deposit is required, and every fubfcii
berwill be at liberty to withdraw his name, if,
on trial, he fliould disapprove of the work, he
hopes the friends of science, and of American arts
and manufactures will cheerfully and early pat
ronize this ufeful work, the greatest and mod
expensive, probably, ever yet attempted inAme- '
rica, in the typograpical line, the Encyclopedia
excepted.
Phila. Nov. 9th. 1792. iawtf
Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, Nob. 20th. 1792.
THE stockholders of the bank of the
United States are hereby informed,
that according to the statute of incorpora
tion, a general election for twenty-five Di
reiftors will be held at the bank of the
United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the feventli day of January
next, at ten o'clock in the forenoon.
And pursuant to the eleventh section of
the bye-laws the stockholders of the said
bank are hereby notified to aflemble in ge
neral meeting, at the fame place, °on
Thursday the eighth day of January next,
at five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the Prelident and Directors..
JOHN KEAN ; Cashier.
t. J. 5.
TerresTa Vendre
Dans un pais lien peuplc)—
S AVOIR, foixante cinq mille, trois cens, foix#
ante et quatorze Acres, en une feale piece"
dans le canton le mieux peuple de la Caroline Me>
ridioaale, leDiftiidtde Ninety-Six• Ces terre s
font fituees dans une contree ayreable, et lalubre
uU «cs Hevres font inconnuesj a environ vingt licues
Je Colombie, la Capitale, et contigues ala villc
de Cambridge, «u iJ y a College, et Cour fupeii
eure. A environ douze Jieues, ii y a bonne navi
gation $ et il eft tres probable, que dans quelqut
terns on rendra navigable le Grand Salude, riviefft
qui arrofe les terres mimes. Elles font agreablfi
rnent diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons charmari*
propres a la culture du tabac, du cofon, du mais«
st du petit grain $ et dont une proportion consider
able fe peutaifement convertir en prairies fertile**
il n'eft peut-etre gueres poflible de rencontrcrune
pareille piece de terre a vendre dans aucun aalre
des Etats Unis $ et pour les conditions de l*ach aC
on les rendra tres commodes.
S'informer a rimprimerie de la Gazette Na
iona,c - Sept. 5.
LANDS for SALE,
IN a well fettied Country. "SIXTY-FIVE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED A ND
SEVENTY FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in one
bod/, in the nioft populous pare of the ftat e of
South-Carolina, in the diftrifl of Ninety-fix-"-lt
is fhuated incline healthy climate,free from fever
& ague,about tixty miles from Columbia, th feat
of government. The land is contiguous t® the
(own of Cambridge, where are a seminary fo° the
inltiudtion 0/ youth, and a fu peri or law court*" It
• s at prefect within about thirty-five miles of -good
11 wiih a probability of having the river,
called the Great Saltioa, that flows along one fide
Ot the land, made navigable. The land is beaut,-
fully dive.Cfied into swells and vales, and is ner
fedtly well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and ftnall grain; a great
proportion of it may be made meadow ground.
There is not, perhaps, such a body ofland, focit
cumftanced, for sale in any otherof the U-. States.
I he terms of payment will be made convenient to
the purcbaf'er or purchafeit. Apply to the Printer.
Augult 29. law!f
/
For ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS,
WILL BE SOLD,
A Private LIBRARY,
Of two hundred and tiuenty-feven volumes,
(Cliieily Greek and Latin ;)
Among which are, several scarce and valu
able editions of the Classics.
Further particulars may be learned, on
personal application at No. 26, Pear-llreet.
CHARLES BITTERS,
Ao. 120, South Market, near Fourth-Jiriet
Has received from New-York, and ma
nufactured by Lot Mirkcl,
A large and general affortmtnt of
Muffs and Tippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
Great Coats, Gaps, Mitts and Gloves lined
with t ur, which he will fell,
Wholcfale and Retail,
at the lowed prices.
Nov. 24. aawtf
TO BE SOLD.
BY public sale, on Friday the 14th of De
cember next, at three o'clock ?,M. at the
hfful'e of Malkel Mills in Roads town, Weft-
Jerley, Cumberland county, a house and kjl of
ground, late the property of Ananias Sayre, de
celled, continuing about nine acres situated at a
place known by the name of Sa. re's cross-roads,
Wetl-Jerfey, Cumberland county. }t is in a ve
ry healthy, plentiful part of the country, and
very beautifully (ituatcd at the aorth weft corncr
us said crufs roads. It is particularly well fuit
ted for a (tare, or a tr.dcfnian of any description.
Mute need not be said in describing the place,
as it is prefamcd any person wanting to purchase
would Hi il fre the premises. Terms of pay
ment tn be mau: known at the time and place
of sale—The lale to be made by
LEONARD SAYRE.
Executor to the estate of Ananias Sayre decealed •
Nov. 28. 1792, law.ew"
Manufadured and for Sale,
At No. 11, North Sixth-Jlreet,
Falhionable Round Top and Flat
B U T T O N S,
Warranted superior to any imported of
equal price.
Country Store-keepers supplied either in
small or large quantities, By
S. PO S T & Co.
N. 3. Conkfliel Buttons, Buckles, &c.
l - eawtf
For sale, at the printing ojice, a fetv copies
of the fit jl volume of th; National Gazette
—
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAINE
AT TBii.ornci NO. 209, HIGH-STR£it
JiEAR FIFTH-STREET*
?HII AOILPHUi