Vol. I.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
Eitrafts from the Leyden paper to May
12th, and from various other Trench
papers, to May 18.
PARIS, May io.
The fahfequent obfcroations have a retrofpetl
to the Manifefloes tjju:dby the house of
Aujlria and their G'rterals in the Bra
bantine provinces, to jujltfy the combination
of that and certaik other continental powers
againjl the reformed Government and Con-
Jlitution of France.
"X TOTHING can afford a cTeaterproof
jj%| that governmental reformation is
far beh nd national reformation, than the
principles which the Governors general in
the Low Countries have dared to publjfh
and disseminate in their proclamations. We
there find aflertions the moit ralie, ii.ipUi.a
tions the mo(l {laiirierous, ar. denial
of fa&s the inoft notorious. They deny,
for instance, that the emigrant ■ have either
been protected or tolerated in Germany ?
and that French travellers and residents in
those dominions have been infintcd, abuled
and plundered. This audacious impu
dence 'hat can coolly deny f.ifts known to
all Europe, is not new in their fyflem of
politics. What is mo'.t a(toni!:.:ng is, the
delibera'e coolness with v/l::ch delpoufm
publishes the catechism oi its laitn, and
repeats the ancient creed, r.t the present
period, £3 it would have dene thirty years
arro. The sacred name of God is intro
duced to f<i nation their worie than Gothic
abul'es of true government, the perpetuity,
we may fay, the eternity of the moll ab
surd institutions. couched under the rcfpcc
table appellation of fundamental laws,
but in fact, annihilating the right, of men,
who have tacitly renounced thoie rights,
merely foe the benefit of affaciating toge
gether, and living under a depot.fm, that
lias made them its absolute poifefiion and
property. And these are the b.:fo princi
ples which are preached up to Europe at
nearly the close of the eighteenth century
These proclamations leave not a doubt,
but that there is a combination amongst
the despotic powers of Europe against the
cause of liberty and human nature. Ihe
war then, will includ in its issue a cause
more interesting to m:.n than ever the an
nals of man have witnefied. It is tne war
of reason against prejudice ; it is a confi'.ft
between all that is great and generous in
man, and those hate-ful paflions which de
grade him to the nature of a bru e ; it is
the spirit of liberty adlin£ against pride,
rage, and superstition. Upon the event
of this war depends the rapid advancement
or the retrograde movement of civilization.
The annals of no nation whatever, that we
know of, has presented jfiich a profpeft as
is now before us Art thou a Frenchman ?
—thy name is written iu the firft pa es of
the book of renovated man—be if thine,
then, to support and extend the glory of
your nation. Situated almost in the midst
of Europe, here is the luminary l hut mud:
dart its rays from the eentre to the circum
ference ; be it our part to fight, and ra
therdie than fufFer't to be extinguished !
Rome, dpril 24. In the vicinity of
Frefcati, have been lately discovered the
remains of the ancient city of Gabii,
which was overwhelmed many ages ago by
the eruptions of Vesuvius. In the firll
digging many fragments of marble pillars
have been discovered, the ruins of temples,
and mutilated (tatties. This fortunate dis
covery promises fair to enrich ou/cabiaets
with precious antiques, the invaluable re
mains of the genius and arts of ancient
Italy.
Strasbourg, May 8. The declara
tion of war, by the AfTembly, has produ
ced here the mull lively emotions of joy.
Our troops are in high spirits, and eager
to engage the mercenaries of Auflria.
This, in a great measure, is due to the
flcilful arrangements, zeal, and patriotism
«f Marechal Luckner. This officer pof
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhed Wednesdays arJ Saturday.-, at Three Dollars per annum,
WEDNESDAY, July i 3, 1792.
feffes in the higheil degree the confidence
of the army, and if conduced by him,
will do every thing that men can do. He
is one of those few men who can derive ad
vantages even from misfortune. The late
difaftroivs events at Mons and Tournay,
have determined him to enforce the mod
rigid discipline, to prevent such disasters in
future, and ensure success. The following
is theaddrefs he made to his army on this
fubjeft, on the £th instant.
" Marechal Luckner informs the army
and the citizens that have taken up »rm3
for the maintenance of liberty, that the
whole amount of the .killed in the repulle
from Mons and Tournay, is about one
handled and fifty men. The Marechal is
fa ly fenfihle that this failure of fucceis
cannot but rc-animate the courage of all
tire Frenchmen. He well knows they
are worthy to be a free nation, and as such
capable of struggling against the blasts of
ndverfc fortune. By a fteadineis and re
solution, charafterii'uc of brave men, who
are fighting for their rights, they will soon
learn how to carry off the victory from
hostile mercenaries.—As to hiir.felf, (the
General said) his duty as a good citizen,'
was to use his authority and experience, to
inftruft those under his command in those
rigid duties of discipline, by which alone
victory couid be purchased—to guide
them, to habituate them to the arduous
toils of war, and to teach them all, that it
is only by submitting the energy that ani
mates them to the direction of their chiefs,
that they can acquire or preserve the
ascendancy that should characterize the
soldiers of liberty.
Stockholm, April 26. Yefierday ar;
end was put to the life and torments o!
Ankerftrom. His right'hand was cut ofT
firft, then his head. His body was then
quartered, and his limbs transfixed upon
(lakes. This, however, was not the day
of his greatest torments ; he h id become
much weakened by the torturesof the pre
ceding days, and his refulal to take any
kind of nouri/hmer.t, mu'.t have entirely
blunted his nervous sensations. Daring
O
the tnree days preceding his execution,
he was cruelly tortured with rods, so that
when he went to his execution he was ra
ther dragged along, than walked. His
sentence included confifcation of property,
but the duke rege nt would not allow the
exercise of this barbarous right, and re
nounced it in favorof Ankerllrom's chil
dren, who are to change their name, as
well as every other family in the kingdom
that went by the name.
Wax saw, April 21. Orr revolution
is far from being completed. We have
however nothing to fear in our own terri
tories: all the danger is from without ;
and we are more appreheniive than ever of
Ruffian and German troops being fern a
mongst us.
Frankfort, May lo Since war has
been declared by France against Austria,
the German courts have throvm of the
masque, and juftify the suspicions long en -
tertained by the French, that the pro
feffions of neutrality and friendlhip, by
some of them, were altogether hypocriti
cal. They now speak openly, and the
ancient policy of the Germanic body is ne
cessitated to yield to the peculiarity of cir
cumllances. Some of the members of that
body greaiy fear the dissemination of
French principles in the'r states ; others
are the vile tools of more potent princes,
to whom they have always bowed—a fmali
number, who are wife, wifil to take no
part in the quarrel with France, but are
forced to furnifh their contingent, whe
ther they will or not.
Valenciennes, May it. General
Rochambeau has not yet received official
notice of his lefignation being accepted by
the King, or that Marshall Lilckner will
succeed him. Hia army, who lincerely
love him,are on his account greatly alarm
ed. The Aullrian enemy, having infor
mation of our intestine divilions, and the
difcontcnt of a part of ths troops, leem
disposed to press hard upon our northern
army. Our forces, however, are brave ant:
ivell disci' lined, "nd those who have erred]
are impatient to repair their fault.
Pari':, May 14. The Minister for home
affairs has exprefied rears for the fafety oi
this capital. Paris is become the theatre oi
intrigue, and the resort of counter-revolu
tioni'.ls, end designing milcreants. A pro
f (it;on v > ir.r.tle in tie Af:r»r.\*/ o(
}e. ;rd-: r, by M. Ifnard, to banish all
p Weil 3 and others, who underreligious pre
texts continued to disturb the peace of the
kingdom. To this it was objected, that an
c jrefs law could not be enacted against
\ ..iefts, without an outrage upon renfon and
piiilofophy. The legislature knows neither
leligion nor minillers cf religion, and can
fingie out 110 fe& or body of men
eiiher to be persecuted or prote&ed. Any
law that on'y inclines the word pr'iejl re
calls the idea of corporations, which are
wholly incompatible with the spirit of the
n ;w laws.
At the Assembly's fitting of yederday,
u ■ were gvatioca with the news that
• n
p ice and quiet were completely reitorej
at Avignon Several dispatches were
.ev/ife received from the minister for fo
reign affairs, announcing the declared
n<. itraiity of several powers during the
present war. In these are included Eng
land, Spain, Sweden, B.ivaria, and the
Duke of Wirtemberg.—Thefe would be
il"! more worthy of praise, if they had de
clared, actively, in our favor. Letters
from Valenciennes are cor.flantly coming
fc i nd, exprcfling the regret and sorrow
o! the French soldiers belonging to the
northern army, for_ what has happened
a: p'.omiling to spend the lad drops o)
their b'ood in repairing the fault that has
been committed, in giving too much heed
to traitorous insinuations.
Brussels, May 7. The prefi.lertt ol
the council of Namur (Austrian city) has
fled here, with some other royalists, or
account of anonymous threats of the
people. In moil of the towns of the
Austrian Low Countries, the fermen
tation i 3 visibly increasing, and the fe
verity of the military discipline centri
butes not a little to foment infurreftions
The Governors General have orderec
Mru fliall Bender to present their thanks te
Marfhalls Beauliou and KappoTicourt, foi
their zeal and bravery in repalfing the
French at Mans and Tournay. Ger.era
Brown has left Mons to command the re
inforcements sent to Namur. The ma
gazine of (lores' on the frontiers, fa:
the greater fafety, are to be removed tc
the interior country. The troops Francs
w !1 have to cope with, are 258,000 men
of which Auflria furnifhes 120,000, Pruf
fia 60,000, the Emperor 38,000, anc
Rllflia 30,000.
Warsaw, April 30. Evefy difpatel
from Ruflia brings us more and more dif
quiet. The court of Russia wiil not heai
a word cf our new constitution, and theii
intentions are without doubt hodile te
Poland. They have already non,inatec
generals Sottilkow, Michelfon, and Koffa
korowlky, who are to enter Poland at the
headof6o,OOOmen, supported by abody 0]
20,000 on the borders of Kiovia, and the
army of general Kothoufky, at Moldavia,
consisting of 70,000 men. Our eourl
has held an extraordinary fitting \on this
alarming news : the King, in confquencs
thereof, has exhorted the Hates to remair
firm to the constitution, and that if ne
cefiTary he would march at the head of the
national forces to oppose invasion. The
dates have authorized the King to put or
foot instantly an army of 100,000 men,
M, de Bulhakow, Ruffian minister, if
making preparations for his departure.
Strasbourg, May 12, The French
foldicrs here of all ranks are importunate
for the fevered military laws, to prevent
misfortunes in future fimiiar to those at
Mons and Tournay. The Austrian force?
increase every day at Brifgaw ; 80 pieces
of artillery arrived yesterday at Fribourg.
Numb. 75.
Rome, April i 3. Strict measures are
taking here,againft the French emigrants
( vagahondi Francejt). Letters from Lo *
retto advise that the emigrants resident irf
that city, had frequently requeued to be
favored with a fight of the trer.fures of
Santa Madona, in the holy house in that
city. This being refufed them, they at
tached the holy house in forcc, with a de
sign to carry off the Lreafnre. They were
repulsed, their leaders taken, and thrown
into priicn. The government has ordered
a body of troops from Ancona to be Ra
tioned at JLoretto—The Abbe Maury is
named by the Pope, Nuncio at the court of
Frankfort, for the of a new Empe->
ror«
National Assembly, Mayli.
M. Servant, the new minister r.t was,
presented himfelf to the National Afftm
bly on the I ith inflant, and made the fol
lowing address. " I have accepted the
place to which the King has been pleafcd
to nominate me. I have accepted it in
the persuasion, that with pure motives,
every man ought at this moment to plactf
himlelf at the most perilous port, particu
larly as he has the hope cf being supported
by the representatives of the people.-—I
enter the lifts, and I shall not quit them,
until I am convinced that my powers are
unequal to r.iy constant deiire of doing'
good. [7/jh AJfem'oly applauded.~\ I have
the honor to inform the Aliembly of the
arrival of M. Luckner at Paris. This
patriot general did not hesitate inuantly
to quit the command of an army vVcIl di
sciplined, by whom he was adored, and of
a department of which he had the entire
confidence. Solicited to take the com
mand of tha.Ticitherr! army, he said in re
ply, that he *would propose a thing more
important for the service. He would go
to \ alenciennes, to re-animate their con
fidence, and to exert all hi; efforts in the
name of the King to persuade Marshall
de Rochambeau, whose great talents he
knew, to continue in command : [afioul
of applaufe.~\ Pie wifl.ed to encourage the
deluded troops. Hi tv'fhed to fcrvs under'
M, Rochambeau, as a simple uii'-dc-camp,
until the time that he should return to his
own army—The King's mini Hers have
supported this proposition, They have
seized with eagerness the occafum of
proving, that, strangers to all perfunality,
they look only at the public good. They
doubt not but the pubiick good will be
consulted in the union of all those who,
like Messrs. Rochambeau and Lnckner,
have the power of giving vi&oty to their
country—lt is but a few minutes
that M. Luckner, freaking to the King,
said, Sire, my foldie rt 'will follow me l:ka
(heep. This was his precise expr. ITion."
M. Dumas then moved, that theprefi.
dent be diredtcd to write to General
Luckner, that the nation thafik him
Decreed by acclamation.
M. Dumas then made 3 report oft thd
means of punifning the cowardly condutt
of the traitors at Mons, " The cgmmit
tee cannot fee, without admiration, thar
in the midst of the confufiort occasioned
by tne treafan and ejpionagecf our enemies,
many'courageous folders supported in their
retreat the attack of an enemy, who had
gained no advantage but from our unhap
py error."—After a preamble, the de
cree on this fubjedt was as follows ; i*
The executive power is charged to form z
court-martial in the city that the genera}
of the northern army fliall point out, to
try the criminals, who, in the sth and 6tft
regiments, cried out Treason, and excited
a desertion in the affair of Mons, 2. The?
general fliall summon the sth and 6th re
giments, who were the ringleaders* If
they do not make the difcovcry within a
time to be limited, the regiments ftal) bef
broken. 3, If the? fliall be broken, their
colours fiiail be torn and burnt at the head
of the army, and the numbefscf the two
regiments fliall forever remain vacant 11*
the army.- 4, The executive Jower fiia3may be f>und guilty of exciting the troops
to mutiny.
Yefiterday the Prussian roinifter inform
ed M.Du.nourier, that the King of Prussia
had notified him, that 42,000 men of his
army, were to ast in concert with the
troops of his ally the King of Hungary
and Bohemia.
Strasbourg, May g. M. d«.Arem
bt'ce is to command the army of France,
011 the Rhine, during the absence of M
.Luckner. The defiles of Portentru are
defended by 7,000 men. Ten thoufnnd
menaie on the marc'i to defend the two
departments of the Rhine. Every day we
have volunteers pouring in upon us. O'.ir
firfl line is complete, and amply supplied
with provisions anc'Jltores. [Stralbcurg is
a large city of Germany, taken by the
French in 1681, and Hill in their poffu
fion.] _
London, May 17. Some days ago
we stated a3 an important fafl, that Ruflia
and Prussia meant to attack Poland, and
todeft-roy its new eonftittltion, The mails
of yesterday confirm the account, and
bring us the following paper, which fhew3
the confidence they have in the King, and
the unanimity of the Diet. On the 16th
of .April the Diet raffed a preparative of
public defeHce. The preamble (tans that
■>' taking God, and ail the people of the
earth to vvitnefs, we do not mean to
declare war agsinft any power ; that we
hold in the greatest regard the/riendfliip
and go 1 d underilanding that has fubfilled
between 113 and our neighbours, and that
we arc occupied only in maintaining our
liiierty and independence—and cOnsider
ing that the negotiations be tween foreign
courts require Irom us, for the guarantee
of the territories of the repub ic, of the
nation, and of our happy constitution, tiiat
we fhoujd prepare for our defence, we de
cree.
1. That the King (hall exert the power
inverted in him by the laws, with the
greatell atlivity and efficacy, in pioviding
for thedeieiice of the nation.
2. 'We authorize the King to engage
two or three foreign generals, and to place
them at the hea.l of the army, with the
lank of commandants in chief, as -.veil as
experienced officers of arti lery and engi
neering.
3. We charge the treasury to negoci
ate a loan, at home or abroad, for 30 mil
lions, on a mortgage of th: produce of the
sale of ftaroftiej.
4.. We authorize the King to difpof
ot all the money arising from this loan, as
well . 9 v.'.iat may be in the treasury, if war
Ihould take place, which God forbid, in
the necessary defence of the republ'.-, un
der the responsibility of the miniiler.
5. In two months from this date, th*
miniiler (hall give an account of the issues
of money.
The Faffes of Portentrui, are now
guarded by 7,000 French, The Bilhop
of Basle, who quitted hio bilhoprick on
their appro ich, jh endeavoring to excite
the Swiss Cantons againu them. The
council of Berile has ordered 1,000 men,
with fix pieces of cannon, to cover the
country near Bienne, but have yet taken
no rneafures that indicate any thing but a
lind neutrality.
Bengal is in a very difordertd and ex
h.Milled "ate. The particular bankrupt
i.-s at Calcutta, the immediate confe
.j.i.-nce of the scarcity of money, we for
r to particularize, from the respect due
to the delicacy of commercial eredit.
Where there is a chance of recovery there
- ought v not to be a glimpse of imputation.
Vv'e are sorry however to fay, that the
avowed bankruptcy of the houses of
Graham, Mowbray, and Skirrow, and of
Ryder, I lee, and Gregory, are likely to
draw rlong with them very general conse
quences. Agf l-V mohur was hardly to be
seen—and it was thm scarcity < i money
which had brought on those failures a
mong the banks, that have recently arisen
ao plentifully in Bengal as in England.
r ] he French will undoubtedly penetrate
without lols of time into the Auitrian Ne
therlands. wheie the people are all ripe and
anxiou3 for their reception. Determined
ar.d prepared as the French are to pay
their troops, and to buy whst they mav
want with money, they will carry with
them temptations to revolt, which the fub
je&s of de potifm can hardly refill ; and
wherever they rppear, the fiandard of hu
man r wnl draw around it the gener
ous utid the tuinking—the men who have
seise 'O eilimate the blessings of liberty, 01
; f}i'li r ons b secure them for their kindreJ
sua What a reverse for the eyes
of EnglifLmen ! Their ancient enemy no
longer engaged in blocd at the caprice of
a king, a miniller, a priest, or a ilrumpet;
no longer facrificing the human race
for territory, for a job, for intolerance or
for a whim, drawn forth on the fide of li
berty, and opposed to the f .me cruel sys
tem of which they have been so long the
victims, is a fpeclade worthy the eyes of
Freemen. It ftifles in the Engliih bosom
every latent of enmity. We remem
ber their meddling and rcftlefs spirit as the
principle of the giant govcrnmentthatihey
havectiifhed, and v.e hail in their prefept
conduttthe generous feelinjjs of men who
Jdire only to ascertain their juitclcvation
in the scale of lational being.
AUSTRIAN MANIFESTO
Perhaps there never was a mere oftr and complete
avowaloj despotic avd tyrannical principles, than
are objervablt in this ccleb'oied Slate paper,
akek we! drawn up in anfverto the declarati
on of war on the part o J France. For the bet
terJatiijtu'hcn of. cur readers ue give U at full
length- by tfUircuaiioti.
" i\ FACTION, by which the kingdom
/ X of France ha-, for 4 years been torn
a filmier, has tuft prevailed on his mod
Ghriftian maiefty, to fajifVion a declaration
of war against His Apoflolical in jelly, nnr
molt honoured lord anil nephew. The
firft ai ; h of hollilities seem to he directed
against these provinces; and ili<? enemies
of all order and power, who are medita
ting an aggression so trjiuft, fotwd their
'tope; of fucce f; on the spirit of party which
was unfortunately diffeniinatcd during the
lite troubles.
"We will carefully attend to the de
fence of those provinces with the govern
ment of which we are entrusted, reljjng
with confidence on the protection of the
lord of It oft.', who is jdeafed . imanifeft the
elf&cts of his omnipotence ir favour of these
who itc inspired with a secret refpeft for
the law.;, and for all power*by hiin ordain
ed 011 the earth for the govermnenc of hu
man foeieties.
"We flatter ourselves that every class
of citizens will he animated with one spi
rit, and (hat they wtli vigilantly attend to
the mairitainauce of internal tranquility
and the prefervatio.il of propc rty, while we
order to the frontiers part of His majesty's
troop . full of glory, and crowned by vic
tory under the two last reigns, until the
league, formed between fev era! great pow
ers. (hall oppose a mound to the torrent
of Gnifter projects which menace the over
throw of Europe.
"We owe it to the faithfuL-fubjecls of
hi niajefty, to Inform them of the measures
wMch we have adopted, during a whole
ear, in hopes of remaining at peace with
franee; and to warn them of the innume
r •': 1 e calamities which our eremies are
eager to spread and perpetuate, under the
fpeciou • veil of a chimerical liberty, offer
d to a credulous multitude, by an impious
feet of innovators, pretended phil' fophers,
a;, the infallible result of their mad pro
jecto. Their>'is not to war with the prin
ces of tiie earth, 'cut again!! the religion of
our.atlceftors, agaiitft .'ocial 01 der, against
prosperity, & against all the comforts which
naturally flow from it. They have aire a -
Jj, by the adoption of their a'ofurd systems
plunged their country into alt the horrors of
inarphy. Je.tlous ofthe prosperity of those
nations who still enjoy the fruits of foci a!
order, they have formed for their own pre
tention the barbarous project of icfpirhsg
them v.-ith a similar delirium, of propagat
ing their erre-rs, and with them all the ca
lamities with'wh ich the kingdom of France
is at this time afflicted.
'• They have been, during a whole«year,
meditating and inventing preterits for the
aogrefaon on which they had resolved.
Having tfriven away from the bosom of
France, by dint of ] erfecutions all these t i
t:z?ns who were attached to the eftablifli
ed religion, and to the prerogative hitherto
held sacred by the fund.unenial laws of the
kingdom, they have attempted to prevent
them from enjoying in any part ox the
world, the sweets of hospitality which men
reciprocally owe to each other. We have
been extremely careful not to afford the
flighted grounds of complaint, resolved rot
te meddle in the lealt degree, with the poli
tical government of any neighbouring dates.
We have taken care to prevent that any
thing {hould be attempted or even written,,
in those provinces, againlt the constitution
just eftaiiiifhedin I ranee ; and as a reward
ior our ftrift attention to the laws of good
neighbourhood, a horde of factious vaga
bonds have been on our frontiers, resolved
on the execution of the most infernal plots.
The moil infamous writings against religi
on, and against the constitutional authority
ofthe sovereign, have been dispersed in theie
provinces. These writings were substan
tially the fame as the speeches delivered
111 the midst of authorized societies, in
which the most atrocious crimes have been
recommended aslvirtues, with a view to
flatter the criminal propensities of a set
of men, in hopes of reconciling them to a
system, which in history will be tie disgrace
of the present generation,
"All our remonstrances on this fubjeft
have been made in vain ; and whilst we
paid the greatest attention to complaints
relative to armaments which had exigence,
& to pretended insults offered toFrer.chmen,
all kinds of excesses have been multiplied
the fubjefts of his majesty, and com
mitted on hir territories, and we have ne
ver obtained on so many objects of com
plaint, any thing more than promises of
fatisfaftion, which have in tin instance been
performed, and when we have, on our
part, exercifetl that vigilance, which was
become neceflary oil the conduct of emis
saries, who it wa boasted openly, were
lent into thole provinces, oil purpose to
excite insurrections and to create anarchy,
>ve have been infultcd for havfcig taken
those precautions which were construed
into attempts againll rhefafety and the li
berty of French travellers. On the other
hand, we were applauded for having given
orders to prevent the aflembling of the un
fortunate French gentlemen who had emi
grated from the kingdom, and to o'olipe
Ehem to conform mo!! ftriftly to the laws of
iimple hospitality, iu order to preclude
[he poffibtlity of their arming and forming
tjiemfelves into a military corps.
f Remainder in our neat]
P H 11. ADELP HI A,
July 18, I 79= •
Saturday la.fl. the 14th of July, theAnrii
yerfaryof the French Revolution, wascele
jrated in this city, with every demonftra
:ion of joy and congratulation.
The vctlels in the harbour were drelTed
11 their celour . and a French veliel falutrd
:heday by frequent firings. m '
Several select companies celebrated the
Jay in a convival manner. ."tndthe even
n;* w i closed by a brilliant display of rock
ets and other fee-works, which met with
lie greatelt applause from a vast concourse
yffpectators —The following toalh were
'rank by die Gentlemen a/Teir.bled at Oel
er's Motel, after partaking of a fp'.endid
epaft.
i. The French Nation ; their conftitu
:ion, and King.
. May the freedom which dawned on
his day. encircle the globe.
3. Victory to the French ar: '.ies over the
"oca to liberty.
4. Liberty or death.
5. The President of the United States.
6. Agriculture, parent of virtus an-' In
lepcndence.
7. Commerce and mannfa&ures.
S. The fair of F'rar.ce and America:
nay each weave a cap of liberty foi a huf
:and. 1
q. Peace to ail the world : may it learn
:o prize anil preserve it.
10. The King Stanislaus Au
;uftus.
11. The United States : may they prove
in alylum to Patriots of every part of the
world.
12. The rights of men.
13. The political virtues ofMirabeau:
may they covcr his foibies.
14. The old thirteen. May the number
sacred in every American mind.
Ij. The memory of Jhofe who have fal
len in defence of liberty.
16. The two new States:, May they be
1 blefing in the Union.
17. I.e Jour. —The day.
18. Universal liberty to mankind.
19. May the memory of Walhington en
lure with time.
;o. The. 4th of July, i"6.
21. A revolution upon just principles
hroughout the world.
23. The (late of Pennsylvania out of
lelt.
23. Ihe national colours of France.
24. May reason and virtue pervade the
Universe,
25. Honor to those who have the impu'fe
:incl spirit to exert it in the caule of lib
erty.
26. France—Success over all her ene
mies.
Accounts down to the last of May re
ceived from Londonderry, by the ship Ma
ry Capt. Campbell, arrived at Baltimore,
represent Ireland as at the eve of a revolu
tion. The C atholics and Dissenters have
joined intereftin the common cause, the re
covery of usurped rights. The above ves
sel brings 250 passengers . It was expected
that from eight to ten thousand persons would
leave that one port for different parts of
America, during the present season.
A long lift of some of the mcft refpefla
b!e names in the British nation, appear in
their papers to countenance the two fol
lowing constitutional objects, which if pur
rued, they make no doubt will furnifh the
power and means of corre£fcing the abuses
which have arisen from a neglect of the
acknowledged principles of their constitu
tion. Fir ft. To restore thp freedom of e
leflion, and a more equal representation of
the people in parliament. Secondly, To se
cure to the people a more frequent exer
cise of their right of electing their repre
sentatives.
The fuin of ready money (lays a Lon
don paper) which the French have succeed
ed in buying up in England ana in Holland,
will tfesai to carry cp tl),k year's
campaign wtth vigour. It is worth obfer
vation, that with all their fitppofed confufi
on, they have no: ceased one day to lay up
for the floiin. In all their Dock-yards,
building, repairing and equipping have
gone on without a moment's jfitermiffion ;
and they have-at this time an unexpected
number of frigates ready to put to sea to
protect their own trade against cruisers.
They do not mean, however, to commit
depredations on their enemies, by sea.
The despotic combination in Europe
seems directed not merely against France,
but against Poland also, whose new consti
tution was framed without violence or
bloodfned, and with perfect consent of all
the constituent orders of the republic. It
is a war of brutal force against philosophy.
We lhail fee, by the result, whether mail
lias yet attained to years of discretion.
Notw Hhftanding the deprefled fituatioa
of Tippoo Saib, according to Fnglifh min
isterial papers, others allert that he has
found means to fend a body of his irregu
lar cavalry if,to the Carnatic, who have
carried havoc and deftruftW n to within a
few miles of the gates of Madras. —From
the tenor of India new , it is move than
probable Lord Cornwall) .'s next difpatch
e-- w ill contain the term-.' of a treaty, ra
ther than the capitulation of Seringapatam.
" It is one Aire symptom of purity and
justice in the French government, that pub
iications concerning it are under noreftric
tion, and the liberty of the Press is not a
iiftion, which a Lawyer can explain away.'»
Engiifh papers concur in mentioning, that
Lcrd Cornwaliis had not marched on the
iSth of January. He was then with his
army, about seven miles from Severn
D.-oog, and was to march towards Tip
poo's capital on the 2jth. Tippoohad made
proportions for peace, which the allies
thought worthy of consideration. It was
expected, and little doubted in England ;
the latter end of May, that the next letter*
from Lord Cornwallis would contain
terms of a treaty. —The citizens of Ant
werp have refuted to p.iy subsidies to Aus
tria : they have proceeded so far as to nail
up on trees and ports the names of the per
f'ons, who, they alfert ought to be ha: v 'd
for betraying the public canfe. —the (Visit
of desertion, in some degree, prevailed a
mong the Austrian troop> 01; the frontiers :
i jo and upwards had come into Lifie in less
thai) eight days—Charles Lameth had fuc
ceedcd to the command of the army lately
und e/ Count Dillon-r-Mr. Dundas having
in the British House of Commons, oppofect
a reform in the Scotch boroughj, by v bid*
the bill was loft, and having affertect that
Scotland has no grievances and needs no re*
chefs, the Scots in a fit of irritation burnt
his effigy in due form at Dundee on the 2d.
of May, and fopn after at Brechin, and o
ther place —that the Londoners, &c. were
most completely duped by the fabricators
of the Seringapatam capitu'a ion news ;
General Abercrombie was for a whole day
believed to have landed in England with the
news of the and Mr. Dundas was
filly enough to lide to the king a: Kew, post
haiie, to congratulate him on the agfeeable
event —Paine's crisis, or third part of the
Flights of man, was not published on the
2:d. of May, but in the press: it was a niif
take that the king's proclamation was rim
ed atPaine's writings : it is in reality point
ed at the reformation society, called friendt
of the people, at the head of whom is Mr.
Fox —England is certainly making military
preparations with a view to favour Franee ;
and whatever might be the wilhes or opi
nions of the court party, tiie spirit of the
nation was decidedly for the defenders of
the rights of man : The French Ambafia
dor in England, was negotiating for a ma
rine force, to oppose the Ruflian fleet, which
was looked for in the Mediterranean—The
long trial of Mr. Hastings was drawing to
a conclusion, and it was generally thought
he would be acquitted—A camp been
marked out, near London, on Bagfliot
Heath, under the command of the Duke of
Sforke, consisting. of 2 regiments of light
dragoons, the 2d. 3d. 14th and 29th regi
ments of foot, with 30 pieces of artillery
and 900 artillery men,, to take the ground
on the 2d of July, and continue r6 days;
the whole deligned toprevent any illegal cx
cesses of the people in celebrating the French
re«. olution on the 14th of July, —the Lord
Chancellor of England, Thurlow, had tak
en leave of the court of chancery on the
2d. of May, and resigned the seals the fame
afternoon: a cabinet council was held the
fame day at Buckingham-House, when the
seals were put in commi!£on, commifiioners
are. Chief Baron, Judge Buller, Judge
Wilson—Letters, by way of France, had
been received in London, confirming the
accounts of the alTaffinalion of the Duke of
Sudermania, fuccefTor to the king of Swe
den—the Prussian army destined for this
years campaign had received their last or
ders on May 7th, to march on the 3®th —
the fatnouslibel-bill had patted the house of
Lords, in London, on the 21ft of May, 57
to 3s ; General Noailles was detained as a
holtage at Vienna, in the place of M. Blo
mendorff, Austrian charge des affaires at Pa
ris, who is nevertheleis at perfect liberty,
andhadfent a declaration to his court that
he is so—supplies of every kind for M. de
la Fayettes' army, began to be forwarded
ou the i4tiji of JJay j deputations of LockJcxeswerepoiirlng into Paris from every
diftricl in the kingdom, with to the as
sembly to carry 011 the war againlt the des
potic powers ;neither army had yetrefumed
their operation; • the Aultrians had fallen
b:<ck between Mens and Narour, a~> if a
fraid of infurreiiVton in the country beliind
them ; Fayette was enforcing the molt ri
gorousdifcipline in his awiy, aud, copying
the great example of the AmcricanFAßrvs,
fceioed deftrous of accuftdming his troop
to evolutions in the face of an enemy, by
Ikirmifhing with the enemy, before attempt
ing any thing of conliderabfe impor
tance.
A paragraph in a London paper of May
18 dated Peterfluirgh, April 6, atfert , that
" the lioufe of the decealed Baron Slither
land, Hanker to tlie Kmprels of Rultia, h i
been obliged 10 (top payment for the lum of
i,j00,000 roubles [a rouble (tcrliag]
owing to it by the court.
The advocates for the buckle in London.
«nd those foe thefho*flnn%, have fettled 111 r
differences, and are about to unite .1 a
clalp.
On Wednesday afternoon lafl the Presi
dent of the Unircd States, with his Lady,
Jet out for V irglnia.
" In the three great diftrifls of the ftatc
of New-\ oik, where tlie people were left
tojln ey f;i< il'e of rhoir own judgment,
. nor Cli iron had a majority of 1 velv •
hundred and ninety seven vote . In tli
•weiterndiftri. t we find a lat'ge majority op
jiofed to the governor, and c 1 ealily trace
the cause, vi.e. th.-ir the rreaiefl landlord
in the (late live in that dif rift, aud have
-many hundred of votes, of their own ma
mifai iuring, at their controul and call."
{N. York Journal.)
Col. Pickering, Post Maftcr General of
the United States, has been 'abfeut some
time 011 a tour to the northern and eaiteru
flares, to visit and regulate the several post
offices on tliofe routs.
It does not eH:ape notice (ftys a corres
pondent) tint the old i;ickof the artful
fntcrefh-d few, to sow divifioiv amor .
the many, who have a common '.nterefl,
Jno'd' i to rule and I - p them under, i
dilii>'".' Iv foingon in (several ouarter3. We
have Lively seen parafraplir, in the New-
J'nf.l tnd papen, a 1 well as elfewl.ere, hint
ing and trying to persuade, that the com
pluints ai-.iinfi cert.'ii.: nieafj ei of the gp
vcr."iuem and the jobs, fnecula
tions, and t'elf-interefted proceedings 01'
Congref;, ifiiii merely from a
party in :i;' foiith.in ftaii':, arid ought
c(v;i'.'.,i. :ilv in > '\v Kuglapd to"be disre
garded ai despised. 'I is misfortune
enontj ■ iat lm al prejtidic- : ilmiild prevail
•t it v. ill bi 1 dreadful calamity if
tlie people fuller tli -mfelvei to be played off
-■ in otii !>art of the un 011 againlt another
part, till they are completely duped in :<ll
by a t'u-tio v liiei) the people every where
delj' ("e . I ■■■•: a common wifti, and a
common ; 1 ■ to difai 111 of it present
fubtU, "in.r il n'lii 11. >• on public affairs.
Thi fa. 'on ijirnng up as soon as the go
verning " 1 'xtjtiienecd it 4 operations. I:
i's made up of the p otid St vjin v oi'fli'ppers
of ariftocracv and monarchy, and of a (i If
interefted ajul enti-rpriling brood, engen
dered by fpecidation and ovarii It ha
hid the government almolt <.oniir..u!y un
der its intriguing f.vay. The life mad •oi
it* power so heaping trraltli 011 its mem- 1
bers, tmd it 1 'ts in and out of Congreft;,
and for piiving the xvav to hereditary . yran
ny on ic <iy cl. ftrn*. 1'.0:1 of popular go-j
veruinent is fi;>T.eic , ly known to .'ll who;
hive attended to tiie hiltory of the
times (ince the year i- 8". One 1 at a los
whiili nioft to ndiniiv 4 the me nu by which,
the faction acquired, or tie nd :to which
it has employed its ovei-ruling influence.
Certain ic is, they were neve nior. luify
than at this moment, when the g.entail,
pain: b taken to calumni : e all republican
endeavours for reforming abuse;, and to
varnifli the misdoings of the
which thepeople hsve bei«un to open th ?ir
eyes upon ; when it is notorious that the
member.: of the g< *. 1 nment: not content
with the liberal wage ci -y have allowed
theinfelves, have m . !.e fortune out of their
proceedings, havi turned .he ah;.:, of the
temple j. h be n feveri ly and truly said,
into a gaming table, m.d have liicr'niced the
true principles oi republic e.t policy, anil the
just int.'relts of 1 cry other c!af: of the
community to the i; erelt of dealers in pa
per, and the plan of 1 o rying on govern
ment by infill in e and intrigue ; is not this
a crying-evil ? ...not this . common con
cern? Aud docs it in lit T-frot.i ho nor
fjoin whence the warning i: ft unded,
though it is certain it doe. not proceed
from the fouthmore than from oti r.jtiar
ters. O,light,not thefi iend 0/liberty and
virtue, Of order and good government and
of tlie public good, who must all be ene
niiesoffuch e« . to join in driv
ing from the temple, the money changer
and the paper jobbers, and thu idohitcis of
strange and falfe governments, who may
have found the way into tlie national lei/uV
lature ? Ought the people, in'any p: rt of
the union, lobe diverted, like the whale
by a barrel, from enquiring into the cargo
01' their own (hip, and ihc conduit of tlie
crew they have themielves put 011 board ?
*y i» the enquirer to be perpetually vilified
as plotting " to the harmony,
peace, and happineft of the United Stales,"
as alferted in a paper oflaft week, which
also take. occasion to make an obfervaiion,
| (in itu application utterly fatfe) that "every
in in in the United States (its quietly
under hi:; own fig-tree, and has none to
make him afraid ?"
It would be well to mark how the
ftfiion ast anion ; Ihemfelves, when they
have a common interell in view oppofetl
to the rights and interests of tlic peo
ple. Do they fuffer themselves to be
iplit and set against each other by any of
those local prejudices which they lion
preach up to the people, in order to di
vide and dupe them ? Not they, indeed.
They understand their game better. For,
from the dealer in scrip down to the lew
eft liuckfter of foldiero' certificates, and
fioin the mod lorJly advocate for monar
chy down to the puniest retailer of flan
ders on the friends of republicanism, the
whole fmiernity, without regard to north
or foutli, e.iR or weft, or city or country,
or to profeflion, occupation, trader or cm-
I ;!(iyit:-nt, cling together like a hive of
been, teady to lling every one who ap
proachee, after having rifled the whole
country of i'.s honey ; neither fp.n in>j the
liumblell (In n!), nor the mod tender flowero
Thui, they pradtice union among them
felves,again ft the people, wliilfl they end a
vor to disunite the people in their common
defence j that is, however, only in cases
when; tlieii views are answered by it:
for when any high point of prerogative is
to be carried, and union is thought to be
a good JlAUthtb, you are fui c to hear
enough of it then. But candour and
confillcncy arc not the faults of thefc men.
On many occasions they make gocl the
rutting reply in a late fpocch of a repre
sentative, that they require you to forget'one
hulj thii,• dollrinet riij arguments, Itforc
tie j can exf eft your qfe.it to the other half.
Two incendiary newspapers have been
for some time published in Parin, entitled
, The Ft lend oj tie People, and 7be Frienil
\of the King. Although apparently in op
pofilion to each other, they had the fame
joojeft in view (fays Gazette de I'rancc) to
; conduit the nation to anarchy, and from
; anarchy to despotism. The Aflembly baa
i ilTued a decree of prosecution against Ma
: rat and Royou, the editor* and authors,
who are both ariftocrates.
" Mr. Bolton ot Birmingham, has tip
plied the (l< am engine to coining. By his
machinery,four boyi of ten years old can
(Like off 30, c guineas in an hour. The
machine keeps an unerring account of the
pieces (truck "
" The queen of Portugal is better (May
21) though mending very slowly. Her
age,' ivliiih is near three fcors ; her habits,
Ifedcntary und dull} her temper, sadly fu
perftitiout; all are against her."
"A letter from Coblentz, dated May
5, fays, the two brothers of the King of
France arc more a&ive than ever. The
Prince of Qonde is now at the head of
.io.coo ofliis countrymen." [_Lond.Pap.~\
The " Examination of Lord Sheffield's
Obfervatiom on the Commerce of the
United States," is reprinted in Loudon ;
.ilfo, Dr. Ruth's account of the fugar
m.-ple tree.
F.xtraElof a letterfrom London, dated May 20.
" Dcfpotifin and fuperllition will, from
all appearance!, contribute at lealt half
their property, to work the downfall of the
reformation i.i France. Even in this
country, Mr. Fox hat publicklyfdeclared
in the 1-loufe of Commons, that the lords
fpiritnal are eneinieo to the repeal of the
laws operating against the equal rights of
the people. What then are we to expedt
from the clergy of the Italian, Spdnifh,
German, tfcotherbigotted nations,but that
:hey will club almolt to the la ft farthing to
support the old game of political and re
ligious delusion, and arm a crufale a
gainst Fiance. Nothing is more certain
than that the abides of religion and the
abuses of government will continue to
cxilt or be annihilated together."
Certain corps of Mountaineer! are men
tioned to be in the Auflrian army, who
making their live] hood in peace by hunt
ing goats amongfl the precipices of the
Alp:, are so exceedingly expert as to
bring down those animals at the distance
of 500 feet, with their fLort bar
relled guns. It is queried whether-a re
giment of our back woods riflemen,
raised and sent to France at the expense
of the United States, would not be pro
per antagonilb to the Tyrolcfe, and other
f'oldiera in the Auflriun army, who arc
laid to excel In carrying the winged deaths
wiili certainty to I'o conlidtrable a dif
t a rice.
The commander of a British ship of
war in Fonchal Road, Madeira, about
tlie middle of May, took two feamcn
from on hoard the lliip llluftrious Preli
dent, 6f Richmond, capt. Butler, lying
in the fame road, and on her way to In
dia. Through the exertion* of John
Marlden Pintard, Esq. American consul
at Madeira, and the demand of the Go
vernor, the two sailors wee given up ;
but the man os-war (die Hyena) failed
without rellorlng to them their chcfli and
bedding. British man-os war captains
di fire fling American merchantmen in this
manner in becoming very common, and
ferrr.s to require* fpcedy renionllrar.ee on
the part of the United States.
" We arc c nvi«crd (fays a letter from
Denmark of May lo,) that to encourage
the American trade, we mull reduce our
duties. Mr. Saabye is appointed Danish
conlul to the United Statce."
[From a CorrcfponJent at Eltlon.']
ImprcfTed with an idea of the manyfu
pei or adrantapen we enjoy, in this young
and flourifhing Republic, from the cflab
lifhment of political and religions free
dom, and defuin g thofc ineflimable blcff
ings to br communicated to all mankind,
a number of gentlemen of Cecil county
met, n.t Capt. Scan's Hotel, in Elkton, on
the 14th inflant, to commemorate the
#nniv«rfary of the eflablifhment of the
French Conflilul'tan. Feflivliy and fiiend
fliip chsrail.rlzed the day, with the war
mer wifiies of success to the bleeding pa
1 riots of France, who so pllly deserve
our moll gr;.!cf,jl remembrance. After
dinner the following toalls were dranK,
accompanied with every expreflion of joy,
that could Jo honour to so important an
occasion.
1. 'i he National Aflembly of Francc.
2. The United Slates.
3. May the prcfent alliance between
France und America, be p.iodu&ive oi
happy confequencea to both nations.
4. May France prove as fuc efsful in
her ftruggla for liberty ao America.
5. Themajefly of the people.
6. The Prefldcnt of the United States.
7 Gen Wayne and the Western army.
8. '1 homr.s Paine, and the rights oi
man.
<). D TiruAion to Mt. Burke's "Corin.
thian Capital of Polilhcd Society."
10 The promoters ~nd supporters ol
the French revolution.
11. May l.h Fayette be asrenowned and
victorious in France as Wafliington in A
merica.
u A revolution and freedom to tin
nati.es of South-America.
13. May the spark of lib rty, at firll
kindled in America, become a perfefl
bhzeto illumine the whole world.
14. May the kinj.s of Europe exchange
their cn.v/na for the cap of liberty.
15. Many days like this,
DETACIIKD THOUGHTS "
ELECTIVE GOVERNMENT.
V/ HE N the friends of hcre.litar)
power allege the experience of Polarn
m a proof of those evils, which (tiij
fay) mud ever attend the appoint
merit of a chits maijiflratc by eledlion
they lake carc not lo mention, that al
thoi': disorders arose from the fadtious
turbulent difp< fition of an ungovernabh
iirifloct'acy, and were fomented by the jea
lousy and ambition of the difFetent Euro
peart despots, each of whom wifltcd to set
one of his own family on the throne, tc
which unhappily t'. - laws permitted so
reign rs to afpirc. When fueh a door lay
open for briber y and intrigue, we need nc
longer wonder at the convulfionn caufcd in
Poland by every election.
HAI) the Pol ill peasantry heretofore
enjoyed the lame privileges, which thcit
late revolution hai conferred on them.—
ihat ii to lay—had they enjoyed some o!
tnofr rights, to which, r.s men, they were
entitled, and which the rneanell American
farmer enjoys,—they wou'd have been able
in some mcafnre to check the turbulent
spirit of the ari/locracy, and prevent much
o! that confofion, that usually attended
the eie&iou of their monarchs. And had
there been a law expressly prohibiting the
eleflion of a foreigner, the kings of Eu
rope would have had very little temptation
to squander millions againfl millions, to
procure the cledlion of any one maiij in
prcfercn e to another.
O D*K 11,
AddrclTed to Cn/pinO 1 Conner, E!q. aback woods
Planter.
WISE was your plan when forty years ago
From Patrick's Ijlc you firll tcfolvcd to dray,
Where lords and knights as t'lick as rulhet
grow.
And vulgar ibl! s arc in each other's wayj
Where mother-country aOi the
part,
Cuts OiT, hy aid of hemp, each petty (Inner,
And twicc 01 thrke in every fcorc of year*
Matches fad wars to make her brood the thinner.
How few afpirc to quit the ungrateful foil
That (laivcjthe plant it had the llrcngtb to hear *
How many flay, to grieve, and fret, and toil,
And view the plenty that they mull not (hare.
This you beheld—and weflward set your nose,
Like lonic bold prow, that ploughs the Atlantic
foam —
And left less vent'rovs wights, like familh'd
crows,
To feed on hog-peas, hips and hawi at home.
Safe landed here, not long the coafl detain'd
Your waiy llcp.i—hut, wand'iing on, you fouttJ
I ann the well, a paltry spot ollan'cl,
'l'hat no man envied, and that no mat; own'd.
A woody hill beside a dismal bo,-; —
1 his was your choice ; nor were you much t»
blame:
And here, refponfivc to the croaking frog,
You gtubb'd, and flubb'd, and fcat'd no land
lord's claim.
An axe, anadie, a hammer, and a Taw ;
1 hefe were the tools that built your humble flicds
A eqck, a hen, a maflilf, yul a cow j
I hefe were youryito this deleit led.
Now times arc chang'd—and Labour's nerv
ous hand
Riils harvefls rife where cluflering tushes nrew }
'1 he difmnl bog by lenjjihy fluiees drain d,
Supports no more hoarlc captain Hull Frog's
crew.—
Prosper your toil !—but, friend, htd you re"
main'd
[p lands, where llau and garter'd nobles fliine,
V/iien you had thus, to lixty years attain'd,
What dilleieni fate, 'Squire Ciifpin, had been
thine I
Nine pence i day, coarse fare, a bed of boards,
I he midnight loom, high rents, and excU'd beer;
Slave to dull fquiies, kings' brats, and hull:111
lords,
1 hanks be to Heaven) not yet in fafhion here f
July 16.
RANAWAY from the fubferiber, livinff
near George town, Sufl'cx county, Deli
vers Su:e, the 3d of thh iiiftant, a negro man
:amcJ IS AAC. He is about twenty one yeari
>f :i|jr, l.vc feet ten inches, or thereabouts high )
k ftrait-lin<b d, likely fellow, 1; 1 a pleasant coun
tnance wbtn btlaugbi j is very artful and cun
ling ; hr» a fir over one eye j and fore teeth
vije ipart. Had on, when he went away, a li
len Ihirtand trowlers ] a j.cket without llecves,
It is not unlikely, however, thr.t he may chings
til drrfi, and also his narr.r. Whoever takes
Inm up, and fecurri iiim.in snyj»!l, or otlierwife,
"0 that rhe owner ma< lilve hiin again, llull re
ive FIVE I'OUNDS reward, and all itafonable
:hijrgei by me the fukli liber.
EBENEZER GJTICHEN.
July 3d. 175 a , t .
FIFTEEN DOLLARS REWARD,
Iy t N AW A\ from the tubferiber in Ncvem
>. ber 1791 a negro woman by the name
,'i A If' about ?.j years of age ; (he is .1 I n well set
wench I metliinj nn the yellow complexion witli
» bufliy hcitl of hair fomethiij related to the
Raf} India molattoes,broad ovc r the lliou'derf, has
noles in her tun and ring* in them when went
tway, the can spin ami wrave tollbrably well, (lie
ia* been at work In Milfprd and as high ak Do
/rr- 1 own in the Del avare dote, in the month of
"•lay 1791. 1 expect flic has made higher up.
5n ■ at that time went l;v the .lame of Blake.—
Whoever takei up and secures said Negro weneh,
O as the awncr m.-y get her again, dial) have the
lbove reward—Living in Accomack county, Vir-
S'nia.
CHARLES TURNSELLt
4 times, 1 aw:
lIOWELL's LARGE
MAP of PENNSYLVANIA.
THi lIS work is engraved in the moll elegant
J Uyle, and will be ready for delivery early
his summer. It is 63 inchci long and 36 in
:hes wide, and for the mofl part very full of
work (except foinc small places of which mate
rials were not to be had) and was wholly coin
piled from actual surveys, acquired at great cx
pence of money, and more than four yenia
labour, and from its manifeft public utility,
the Lcgillature has been plcafed to grant the
proprietor the sum of three hundred pounds.
This map exhibits the County and Township
Divilion's, and those of the Surveyors DifliiOs
in the New-Purchase, Donation and Deprecia
tion Lands j the waters, portages, and the Ca
nal, mountains and valleys, roads, towns, &c.
He thanks the Public lor their very liberal
fubfcriptioii, and informs them that it is yet kept
open. He fells his sjviAM, MAPS, on can
vals. folded and cas'd for pockct carriage, ac
10/6, and plain at si/4.
KKADING HOWKLL
Ai>, ildj A'erth Fifth-Jlrut.
J'>le 11. * liiw . Cw.Continuation of the French LAW'S relative
to PATENTS.
L A W
Refpe&iilg the Rules on the Property of
Authors of Inventions and Difcoverits
in every work of geniu3.
Given at Paris, May 25, 1791.
Louis by the grace of God, and, by the con'
flitutional law of the Jlate, King of th e
French, to allprefent and to come ; Greet
ing ;
The National Aflembly has decreed, and
we will and order what follows :—
Decree of the National AJfembly on Marce
29tb, 31ft. April ith, and May 14th,
1 79 1 *
Rules for the execution of the law of the
7th January 1791, on property of au
thors of inventions and discoveries in
every work of genius.
RECORD 11.
. . A NY one who wi/hes to obtain a
Artie e 1 brevet of invention, shall be obli
ged, conformably to the 4th Article of the law
ofjanuary 7th, to apply to the Secretary's office
of the dire&pry of his department, to convey his
Petition to the king, with the descriptions of alj
the means he propoled to employ j likewise, the
drawings and models relative to the obje&s of his
petition, conformably to the third article of the
Ift Record ; to which (hall be joined, a duplicate
of the lift of all the different pieces contained in
the packet, Signed by the petitioner} one of
which duplicates fhali be sent to the Secretary'e
office of that department, by the director ; to
which the said {hall give his receipt, at
the bottom of the said lift, for all the different
pieces therein mentioned.
Article 2nd. The petitioner shall, have aright,
before hefigns the verbal process, to have a ca
talogue of all the different Brevets th3t have been
granted, to the end that he may be able to judge
if he ought to persist.
Article 3d. The petitioner shall be obliged, con
formably to the 3d article of the ift record, to
have a receipt from the Secretary's office of the
department, for the duties of the brevet according
to ;he tat if annexed to the patent rules, under
the 4th number ; but he shall be at liberty to
pay onJy one half of the duties when he presents
his petition ; but he must give a promifiory note,
that he will pay the remainder at the expiration
of fix monthi,
Article 4th. If the recognisance Is not fulnl
led at the time prescribed, the brevet which shall
have been delivered, shall be of non-effeit, hi»
light shall become free for any one to make use
of ; and advice of its being free, fiiall be lent to
all the departments, from th# directory of bre
vets of inventions,
Article sth. Every person holding a brevet,
shall be obliged to pay, over and above the afore
faid duties, a patent tax ; which shall be annually
imposed on all profefiions, arts and trades, by
the law of Jan. 7, 179'•
Article bih. A proprietor of a brevet, who
would make any change of an object declared in
his tirft perition, lhall be obliged to make his de
claration of it and remit the description of his
new invention, to the Secretary's ofiice of thai
department ; iri the form and manner prescribed
in the ift article »f the id record; and there
shall be observed, in this cafe, the fame formali
ties betwixt the directors of the department, and
those of th? brevets of inventions.
Article)th* If such patentee wishes rtot to en
joy exclulively the exercise of his new invention
longer than the time of his brevet, he shall have
granted him by the director of brevets of inven
tion, a certificate, in which his new declaration
shall be mentioned i likewise, the placing the
packet containing the description of his new ex
pedient : he shall be free, alio, to take successive
ly a new brevet for the.above mentioned changes,
cr to unite them in one brevet, when he shall pre*
sent them collettively* These new brevets, shall
br dispatched in the fame manner and with the
fame forms, as brevets of invention, and they
ihall have the fame effett.
Artie,lf any person shall. announce the
means to make perfett an invention, for which a
brevet has already been granted, he shall obtain
by his petition a brevet for the exclusive exercise
of the said expedient, without his being per
mitted, under any pretext whatever, to execute or
make or occasion to be executed the principal
invention ; and vice versa. The firft inventor
ihall not be allowed to make use of the improve
ment; nor, fnall the changing forms or proporti
•«j, no more than that of the originals, in any
fort whatever, be placed in the rank of inventi
ons.
Article 9th. All grants of brevets obtained for
any objedt, which the tribunals shall judge contra
ry to ,the law of the kingdom, to the public se
curity, or to rules of the police, shall be deprived
of its rights, without being able to pretend to any
indemnification ; the pubiic minister shall be at
liberty to take such "taeafures, according to the
Importance of the cafe, as he shall judge proper.
Attitle 10th. Should the proprietor of a bre
vet be troubled in the exercise of his private
right, he shall be able, by the forms prescribed
for other civil causes, to cause to be condemned
the offending party in pains and penalties pro
nounced b> the law ; when the offender shall have
been brought before a justice of the peace.
Article nth. A justice of the peace shall hear
the parties, and their witnesses, shall order the
proofs which shall be necrffary ; and the judge
ment he fliali pronounce, shall be executed, pro
visionally, notwithstanding an appeal.
Article I'Zth# In a cafe where a feiiure shall
be made according to law, but not being able to
discover any objedl fabricated, fold, or made for
" sale in a fraudulent manner ; the informer shall
bear the penalties in the 13th article cf the law,
l«3ft> 'tillhe can make appear the information
by legal proofs ; in which cafe, he shall be ex
empt from the said penalties $—-without neveithe
lels pretending to any damages.
Article 13th, The proceedings shall be the
fame, in cafe of a conteji between tiffo Brevets for
the fame object ? if it be declared there is an ex
a£l resemblance, the Brevet anterior shall be the
only one valid 5 but, if there is any part that the
relemblanee is not, exatt, the Crevet pofterio r
(hall be converted into - a perfe&ionating Brevet
and shall be exempt from any other duties,'
in consider ation of the expedient, which had
not been announced in the firlt Brevet.
Article 14th. The proprietor of a brevet, shall
be free to contract with any society, he (hall
chufe, to exercise his right conformable to the
usual modes of ttaoe 5 but, he is absolutely forbid
in the penalty of losing his light to his brevet,
to eftablilh his enterprize by i&ions.
Article th. When a proprietor of a brevet
shall part with all, or only a part of h'l3 right in
his brevet, (which he shall not be able to do but
by a deed drawn up by a notary) the contracting
parties shall be obliged to have this conveyance
registered, (according to the sth number) under
the penalty of the lofsof brevets at the fecietary's
office of their refpe&ive departments, who shall
fend information to the direOory of brevets of in
ventions 5 to the end, that tbi\ may fend inform
ation to all other department*.
Article 16th. In compliance with the 17th ar
ticle of the law of January 7th* all the poiTeflors
of exclusive privileges supported by the said arti
cle, lhall be obliged, at the end of fix months af
ter the publication of their rules, to have register
ed at the dire£tory of inventions, the titles ot their
privileges, and thereto place the description: oi
the privileged oojetts j conformably to the firfl
article cf the present record j in tte penalty
of the loss of'their privileges.
R E C*o R D, 3d.
Article 3ft. The National AfTembly wi!! refer
to the minister of the inner department, the pro
per measures to be taken for executing the rules
of the law of the brevets of invention ; and, a
charge to present, forthwith, to the atfembly,
the disposition that he shall judge necellary to
make this bill of public utility.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
To the PRINTER.
HILST our American ar!ftocrr.ts
V 1 are anxious to adopt the spirit
and principles of the British government,
they will no doubt, think it n;ceflary to
publish the moll flattering accounts of the
prosperity and grandeur of that Country.
Some of the Clergy* a few of the Nobili
ty, pensioners and placemen enjoy every
comfort and luxury, at the expense of the
laborious part of the community ; but the
miiery and opprfffion of the moll nume
rous and moll ufeful class of Citizens has
been llrongly pictured by many late wri
ters. 111 addition to the accounts given
in forne of your late papers, I beg leave to
communicate one from a late publication
on agriculture. Mr. Marshall, in his" Mid
land Counties, " Vol. 2. Page 217, ob
serves, "It having always appeared to me
incomprehensible how a common farm la
bourer who, perhaps, does not earn more
than fix or seven shillings a week, rears
a large family, as many a one does with
out any affiflance, —I desired old Gtorge
Barwell, has brought up five or fix
ions and daughters, to clear up the mys
tery—he acknowledged, that he has fre
quently been hard put to it. He has
fometimcs barely had bread for his chil
dren : not a mcrfel for himfelf : having
often made a dinner of ran> hog p:as"
Again p. 364 " I lately fold a parcel ol
cord wood to a Jersey comber, who em
ployed a poor old man to burn it for him.
on the spot, at eight pence a quarter, ant]
board ; which however did not cost him
much. The poor devil had fometimei
bread and sometimes cheese, and feme'
times neither, with seldom any thing but
water to drink. His lodging cost hirr
nothing. He built himfelf a hut with
flubs and Tods, a cone seven feet wide al
the base, on the inside and four feet higli
in the center. The floor divided by a long
log : one fide littered with flraw for a
lodging room : the other furnifhed with a
loose log as a fitting room."
Phila. July 13.
Society for eftablifhinp UJeful Manufacty.res.
TJROPOSALS to contra& for the folloWing
purposes, will be received at New-York by
Nicholas Low, at New-Ark by Elifha Boudinot,
at New-Erunfwick by John Bayard, and at Phi
ladelphia, by Charles Pettic—viz :
ift. To cut a canal from the river Faflaick,
beginning at a point near a station, where stands a
stake marked No. i ( and continuing thence to
the brink of a precipice at or near a rock marked
No. 3. 'This ctfKa/muft be thirty feet wide, and
m uft be funk to a leve (with the furface of the wa
ter in the driest season.
sd. To eredt fiood-jrates in the said canal near
the brink ol the prccipice.
3d. Tocreft a dam on the river Paflaick above
the Great Falls, and below the place of the canal.
The dam to be four feet above the level of the
fuiface of the water at the driest sea/on.
4th. To erect a dry wall across a gully adjacent
to the abovementioned precipice, in a direction
from the said station No. 3, to another ft ition be
ing a ftak milked No. 6, on or near the summit
of a hill, extendiug from theone t>« the ether;
and to make a wooden trough upon the said wall
sixteen feet wide by seven feet deep.
sth.To extend a trough of the fame dimensions,
from the said station No. 6, to another station
being a tree marked No. 7, with a dry wall on
one lide, the whole length thereof,of the thickness
of fix feet.
6th. To ere£ at the town of Pater foil* rear
the Falls of the Pafluick, a stone building, fifty
live feet long by thirty-two feet wide, four ltories
high,exclusive of a cellar the whole 'length thereof.
7th. To eredt another (tone builcfing at the said
town cf Paterlon, seventy-eight feet long, b)
thirty-one feet wide, three ftorie3 high, exclufivc
Oi a cellar the whole length thereof.
Sth. To ereCl another stone building at the said
town of Paterfon, thirty-eight feet long bv twen
ty*feven feet wide, two ftoric j high, exclusive of a
ellar the whole length thereof*
9th. To ereCt another flone building fixty-eighl
feet long by thirty fix feet wide, two iiories high;
exclusive of a cellar the whole length thereof.
loth. To erec> fifty houses of ftonc or wood,
as may be afterwards determined, each twenty
four feet long by eighteen feet wide, in height
from the lower floor to the plate twelve feet, wilt
a cellar and a garret* Two houses to be un
der onr rocs, with a party wall. The propofai 1
will fpecify severally the rales at which these build
ings will bs undertaken in ftonf and in wood.
Descriptive plant of th: Jevcral obje&s abovi
fpecified, No. 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, S, >0, may b<
seen in the pofleffion of Nicholas Low at New-
York, Elifha 15oudinot, at New-Ark, John Bay
ard, at New-Brunfwick, Charles Pettit, a: Phila
delphia and William Hall at the (aid town cl" Pa
teri'on. The said William Hall will give suel 1
explanations as may be necefiary*
A descriptive plan of the building aboVe fpecifie<
No. 6, may be seen in the pofleffion of the sou
firft above mentioned persons and of Thoma
Marihall, at the town of Paterfon who will givi
such explanations as may be necelTary.
A descriptive plan of the buiiding above fpecifie<
No- 9, may be seen in the pofleffion of the sou:
firlt abovementioned perfq/is, and of Willian
Pearce at the town of Paterfon, who will give fuel
explanations as may 6e neceflary.
All materials are to be found, brought fd th<
spot, ana erected bv the contractors, to whom li
berty will be granteJ tinder certain reflrriCtions tc
use the llones or timber which may be on the
lands of the focicty.
The proposals may comprehend either the
whole or any one or more of the foregoing objeCts.
The propofcrs may accompany their proposals bj
the suggestion cf any tther methods which /hal
occur to them for construCting a competent wal
across the gully from flation No. 3, to station No.
6, and for conveying the water from thence tc
ftaticn No 7, and the terms upon which they ma\
be dilpofed to contraCt according to those method*
All the works for conveying the water mull bf
warranted for seven years*
Proposals mufl be in writing, and under sea
addrefied to the society for eftabli/hing ufeful ma
nufactures ; and xltlivered to one of the said per
sons firft mentioned, on or before the twenty sixth
of/July initant.
July 10. 3:.
To be pulUJhed ly Subscription >
THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR
Proceedings of the Old Congress,
From their firft!Meeting in September 1774,
to their final dilTolution in March 1759,
COMPRISING at full length, every impor
tant resolution, order, address, declaration.
&c. contained in tile thirteen volumes of theii
journals—a cor.cife summary of the less interert
ing parts,—an alphabetical lift of appointments,
promotions and resignations—a collective viewin
the public expenditures, &c. &c.—-the whole in
rended to serve as a fatisfaCtory fubfiitute for th<
original journals, which are now out of print, anc
of which the entire substance, un incumbered witl
official formalities and repetitions, will here b<
given in about one fourth of their present bulk
accompanied with one complete general Index :•-•
To which will be added, a copious and valuabl
collection of
ORIGINAL STATE PAPERS,
from theßecofds and Files of Congref:,
Containing (eit'ier verbntim,or in abftraft
as the cases may severally require) such interest
ing pieces referred to in the journals, at may wit!
propriety be permitted to be made public, \\z
Letters from the different ofiicers employed ii
the public service during the late war—intercept
ed letters ot the enemy—communications fron
governors, state legislatures, conventions, an;
committees—dispatches from agents and com'
miflioners—inOruflions--- reports of committee
of Congress; and various other authentic docu.
ments, tending !o throw a light on the importan
events, to which America owes her present inde
pendence.
In the course of the work, will be introduced,
in their proper places, such parts of the
SECRET JOURNALS,
as no longer require secrecy.
As soon as joo copies are fubferibed for, t he
work will be put to press, to be delivered to sub
scribers, in numbers of 304 oilavo pages each, al
One Dollar, in blue boards. The Sub
scription mcney -will not be re-quired for the firfl
1 Number, until the publication is begun; and
on the delivery of each number, half a dollar wil
be expected in advance for the succeeding one,
To non-fubferibers, the price will be raised.
Subscriptions will be received by the prin
cipal booksellers throughout the Union, and by
the Editor*'
JOHN CAREY.
26, Pur-Strut, Phikddphi*,
NEW-YORK. & PHILADELPHIA STAGES
Via Sordentciun and Burlington,
And SHREWSBURY & PHILADELPHIA
STAGE,
Via Bordentoivtt,
THE proprietors of the New-York and Phi
ladelphia land and water Stages beg leave to
mention, that for the better accommodation of
passengers, they have thought proper to remove
the different packet boars from their former ftanc >
at the Crooked Billet wharf, to the wharf or dock
immediately next bslcw from whence,
on the firft day of July next, and afterwards, a
convenient packet-boat will start for New-York,
as usual, on every Sunday, Tuesday, Wednesday
and Thursday, and return on every Tuefdavy
Tnurfday, Friday and Saturday. The pafTage to
be made either by the way of Bordentown or Bur
lington, each place to be taken alternately. Fare
for pafl'engers from Philadelphia to New-YorJc
155. -••For Goods pr. cwt. 6.
VAN EM BURGH & M'KEAN,
DAVID WILLIAMSON,
Proprietors of the line of New-York and Phi
ladelphia Stages, by the route of Bordentown.
JACOB MYERS,
AMOS HUTCHiN,
NICHOLAS SCHENK,
Proprietors of the line of N. York and Phila
delphia Stages, by the route of Burlington.
The Shrewibury Stage will leave Philadelphia
in the months of July and September, on every
Sunday and Wednesday, and return on every
Tuesday and Friday. In the month of Auguit,
it will PhiladeJphia on every Sunday and
Thursday, and return on every Tuesday
turday.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
DANIEL LOT,
Proprietors of the Shrewlbury and Philad. Stage.
Bordentoton, June. 25, 1792.
For freight or pafTage apply to the matters on
board, or ,to M'KEAN k VAN EMBURGH,
at their ftoreon said wharf, immediately next be
low Arch-Street $ by ivbom orders for tjoe purcbafe
of all kinds of grain, Jiaves, or other country pro
duce, are punctually attended to.
For freight or palTage to Lamberton Or Tren
ton, also apply as above. law t
Philadelphia-, June 271
i -
TO THE PUBLIC.
v "■ Subscriber has it in contemplation foou
to decline his present business—and having on
hand a considerable quantity of fuperfine second
and elastic cloths, together with a variety of other
articles in his way, propefes to fell them at the
following reduced pees, VIZ.
Belt Superfine navy blue
Ditto, ditto. Scarlet 36/,
Common colours fuperfine 32/.
Elastic stripes qf %
London buff and white caflimera 15J'6.
Ditto, coloured do.
Yorkshire do. 13/6.
Striped toilenets 34/.
Rattinets
Striped Nankeens : y'q,
A variety ofwaiftcoit fli ape's proportionably lovr
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London Left lilk hose, from 22>.f& to 24/".
The above goods have been moftiy imported from
>ne of the firlt mercantile hcufes in London, and
ire of an equal quality 0 any imported intoAme
icaj they will be fold per piece or smaller quantity
is may best suit the purchasers , by the publics
noft humble servant, JOHN SHEPHERD.
person difpoled to purchase the whole
>f the above {lock, may also have on reafonablc
errns his present dwelling house together with
he store, a more eligible iituation for business in
he tailor's line is not to be found in this city.
The advantage of this business being so well efta
>3ifhed by the proprietor will be very g r at, and
rom well known fa£ls, needs no comment.
A lease of fix years may be had of the house.
May 14, aaw.tf.
PROPO S A L S
For Printing by Subfcripticn y
PUBLIC REPORTS
FROM THE
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
OF THE
Government of the United States
CONGRESS,
Commencing with the pi rfent Government, and end
ing withtheclofe of
1 HIS work is intended to be printed in on.
rolurae octavo, efiimated to contain bet-ween five
md fix hundred pages, and will be delivered to
übi'cribers in boards at One Dollar and a half.
A complete colletlion of the Reports into a
ronvenient and portable volume has been fug
2,efled to rhe publilhers by several Members of
Congrefsand other gentlemen, and they are row
determined to proceed on with the work, provi
ded a competent number of fubferibers appear
to patronize the undertaking.
Subscriptions are received by CHILDS and
SWAINE, the publifiiers, No. 209, Market
llreet, Philadelphia, and by the principal Book •
fellers in the United States!
May 24.
_ i.
*»* Thret handsome Editions of the Laws
f the United States for sale at this office
''No. 209 Marketflreet) in folia ar.d 08a
vo, either full or half bound— N.B. The:
Laws oftkelajl Session, ia odavo on\y,may
be had separate, price three eighths of a do!.
PRINTED BY
C HIL D S AND SWA IN E,
AT THEIR OFFICE NO. 2UQy HIGH-STREET
NEAR FIFTH-STREET,
rMILA»*IfHIA,