Vol. I.
DEFENCE
Of Mr. Jefferson's political CharaStr.
in reply to fevtral Pieces which have
appeared againjl it in the Ga
zette of the United States.
[Continued from Number 96.]
From the American Daily Advertiser,
BY the extra £ls from Mr. JefFerfon'i
letters lately published, his lentiments
sir. the confutation have been unbosomed
• > his countrymen. The circumstances
under which they were written, already
noticed, furnifh the mofl fatisfafiory de
monflration they were the genuine diclate;
of his heart. That they became at the
time, the ftibjefl of pu'ilic difcufiion, mufl
have given him surprise; but that they
fnould now be resorted to for the purpose
cf crimination, even if his judgment, upon
that great fubjeft, had wandered ftom e
leund decision, is flill more extraordinary.
They a<-e however fully before the public,
and whether they deserve commendatior
or censure, hti fellow citizens will deter
mine for themselves.
Ift he political querist fought, as an ob
ject of curious speculation, a more conciff
«nd summary exposition of them, I am
persuaded he would concur with me in the
following, founded on the'e extracts
»' That he bad become sensible the wife
and happy direction of the afTaii s of his
country required some great change in hei
political, inftitutio'ns ( and when he firfl
saw the cor.ftitution, the result of thinfe
able and experienced councils, to whose
care the modification had been committed,
lie considered it like all other human pro
ductions, containing much good, but not
without a considerable alloy of evil. That
he prized its good qualities too high to
urge any step that might pofiibly tend to
hazard the fyltem, and therefore wished
its immediate adoption by nine Hates and
establishment as a jovernmenti That he
wished the four other dates to holdout,
and thereby form on each fide an indepen
dent head, between whom the necessary
amendments might be amicably adjusted,
Thai afterwards and for the fake of great
er lafety, confiding in the virtues and pa
triotifm of his countrymen, he even ad
vised amendments in the mode proposed ir
the instrument itfelf.*
Let the "American" shew the paiTageir
these or any other letters written by him :
whieh should give offence to the most ac
t ve republican fupporterof the conltitu
tution, in that or any fubfequcnt ltage :
which denounces him the foe to good go
vernment, the frit dos anarchy and licen
cioufnefs. Let him point out the fenti
ment which has not in a great meafurc
been verified, by the President in his in
troductory speech to Congress, the fubie
quent ads cf that bod,, and those of the
several ilates. Unhappily for mankind
the annals of all nations prove, that per
lens in his Ration tpo often err in the op
posite extreme. That those who possess
wealth and power, and even where these
gifts have been conferred by the confidence
*The following extract has been since
furnifhed me by the gentleman from whom
I obtained the former. It was overlooked
upon thjt occasion, or would have beer
then inserted.
Parts, July 6, 1788.
" I am glad to hear that the new con
tution is received with favour. I fin
cerely wish that the nine firft convention:
jnay receive and the four last reject it. Tlx
former will secure it finally, while the lat
tcr will oblige them to offer a declaratioi
of rights in order to complete the union
We fhallthus have all its good, and cure it
principal defefi. You will of course be fc
gqod as to c.oi\linue to mark to me it:
progress- I wdl thank yeui, alio, for a!
exact a Hate as you can procure of the im
predion made on the sum of our comeftic
del t. by the sale of 1 ands, and bvy federate
and flatc exertions in any ether manner.
By P. FR E N EA U : Publijhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars ptr annum.
SATURDAY, October 13, 1792.
and favour of their countrymen* are toe
apt to feel for themselves a difFtrent inte
rest, separate from, and look with an eye
of jealousy and fcom upon those of their
fellow men, to whom the goods of fortune
have been dtfpenfed with a less liberal
hand. In this refpeft indeed the tone ol
charadter displayed in these letters may be
deemed in some measure peculiar to theii
atuhon Such an unfeigned and benevo
lent regard for mankind in alf their clafies :
such an anxious folicittide for their wel
fare, and vigilant atterttion to. their rights,
are rarely to be found united in any oik
person. With feelings and sentiment;
like these, if I mistake not the man, the
felfifh, narrow, and vain-aspiring heart ol
Tb- American never glowed.'
The charge then of hoftiltty to the go
vernment in that early ftnge, so far as it
depended on the Secret operations of hi
mind, has been (hewn to be without foun
dation. His subsequent conduit has been
; raced for further evidence of difafteition, &
however light and contemptible the cir
cumftances are on which it rells, I will
pursue it, the more fully to demonllratt
the impurity of the motives which dicta
ted the attack.
The freedom with which he has spoken
of some public measures, being a principal
servant in the executive department* ha;
been relied on as a circumstance ofunequi
focal proof of fueh hollility. The object
md extent of this position, perhaps Ido
rto't fuliy comprehend : does the authoi
ifiean, that a wifely framed government
:annot in its adminiilration adopt an inju
licious and improper measure ; or that a
nan cannot be friendly to the oneand difsp
irove the other ? If this is the idea anc
he principle should be recognized, thf
Beld of enquiry upon any future occaGor
ivoiild be much abridged, and the labou:
jf all parties proportionally diminifned,
Let it 3 measures be what they might,
lowevcr repugnant to the authority under
which it acted, or f'.tbverfive of the tight:
jf those who made and for vshofe benefit
t should be adminillered, no controvcrfy
ipon t l efe points could be fuflained ; nc
critical Comparison could be made, no line
jf partition drawn between the one and
the other. If this doctrine fliould be efla-
Dlifhedj the people of these states would
ind themfehes reduced to a strange di
ernma : the constitution they had adoptee
3nd planned with so ; much cire, as the
boundary of a limited authority,-would be
:onfidered as the absolute surrender of all
ih'jir rights. By legitimating every pof
ible measure which in the progress oi
:ime a venal and unprincipled majority
might carry, its a&s would become more
spprefiive than those of any exifling ty
ranny, becatife its'adminiflration would be
more daring, uncjer the delusion pradtifed
an the people, by seeming to rell on their
fuffrage.
Or does the author mean that a person
by accepting an office in the executive
department, should lose in the spirit of the
™rp3, the native rights of a freeman ? that
he (hould abandon his own sentiments,
except at private consultations, and cling
:o those of the majority ? that a man of
jreat worth', in whom for pall services his
:ountrymen reposed an high confidence,
hould throw the weight of his character,
uto the scale, to support a measure which
n his conscience he disapproved and in his
lation had opposed ? that the members of
lie adminiilration fliould form together
i close and secret combination, into whose
neafures the profane eye of the public
hould in no inflance pry ? If this is
lis idea, Itt it be avowed ; it involves
i principle which upon public confider
itions should be difcufTed ; for I con
ider itfubverfive of those upon vhich the
government ltfelf was founded. The mask
as fccrccy adopted in arbitrary govern
ments, for the mod oppreflive purposes,
and which by some good men has been
deemed necessary to cover executive ope
rations, has ia moll instances when ap
plied to us bfen over-rated. Few cases
only, and those purely executive, and for
which the chieftain himfelf should be held
responsible, can require it. In general, if
it does not cover gross and fhameful mal
versations, and which should be exposed
for vvholefome corredtion to the public
view, the most favourable light in which it
can be held, is that of an empty, frivolous,
and pageant Ceremonial of office* But it
m?j be positively affirmed, that whenever
it interferes with the spirit of refponitbility,
the life and foul of republican government,
its tendency is vicious; and fliould be aban
doned. bo far then from deeming him
:enfurablej for the freedom of his d:fcourfe
upon public measures, to the extent that 1
im persuaded he has carried it, I honor
irid refpeft him for it. It marks a firm
uid virtuous independence of chara&er,
which assures me I may still confide in
lim with fafety. The principles he ac
cucwledges> and the language he uses, are
lis own ; not formed upon those of the ma
ority of the corps to which he may occa
lonally belong: they are the fame I
snow that he possessed before he commeri
:ed the career of public trust.
— t
FRANCE.
M. Br is sOt's account of the permanent fit
ting of the night of the 9 </j, and day of the
loth rfugufi 179 Z.
" THE wickedness of the court was at
ts height, as was also the indignation of
the people. A grand conieft vas prepa
'ing, which was at length to terminate the
war waged by the head of the executive
Power, the nation to whom lie
* O
awed all. The people had long been
ready, and ftiade no secret of their refedu
ion ; the preparations of the cotlrt were
"hrouded in darkness.
" At midnight the found of the alarm
sell refounced in all parts, the drums beat,
ind the citizens flew to arms. On this
Ignal the national assembly met. It was
Toon informed that M. Petion, always hu
■nane, was exerting himfelf to avert the
lorm—that he was at the palace—and
hat he was in danger there, because
wretches detained him, ar.d pretended to
;eep him as an hoftagc against the ven
geance of the people. The assembly or
dered the virtuous magistrate to the bar ;
le spoke with firmriefs of the approaching
:rifis ; with modesty of his efforts ; with
:oolr,efs of his dangers. He was applaud
ed, invited to the fitting, and then restored
to his functions
" In the mean time, if guilt was on the
watch at the palace, patriotifin was every
whereon the watch in the city. Citizens
md feftions cartic to deposit in the bosom
jf the representatives of the people, their
Solicitudes and. their sentiments. They no
onger considered the court but as the focus
as a counter revolution ; the palace of the
rhuilleries but as another Coblentz. If
:he people were firmly resolved to punifn
:heir enemies, it was because their enemies
;iad compelled them to it. If they die
lot wait for the vengeance of the law, il
was because the law is flow to punish, ant
:onfpirators prompt to ast ; it wal because
ill laws muff: be silent in the prcfence o
[he supreme law—the fafety of the coun
try.
"It was day : the minister of jufticc
repaired to the assembly. He came thi
ther to implore for the king that protec
tion which he could not expett frsm th<
love as the people so ofu-n betrayed—
which lie durst not hope from their cle
mency so often rewarded by a&s of perfi
d) r . The national assembly, however, for
getting both the grievances of the natior
and their own, remembering only theii
constant generosity, thought of means tc
form a rampart for the king, of the confi
dence which they enjoyed, in place of that
which he had loft.
" During this difcufiion, municipal
officers announced that a new provisional
Numb-, ioo.
adminillratiori was formed at the com
mon hall. Ihe people assembled in their
fedtions nominated commissioners, who,
by virtue of their powers, constituted
themselves council generalof the commons.
The municipality had been suspended du
ring the continuance of this revolution
authority—M. Petion, M. Manuel, and
M. Danvon alone excepted. Butthe peo
ple unwilling that their beloved magittrate
[liould (hare their dangers, wilting, if £
may sb express it, to deposit the law nnd
Its most refpefted organ, had surrounded
Mi Petion with a numerous guard, and
sorifined him in his own house The pro*
visional administration had put M. San
terre provisionally at the head of the pub
lic force, and forbidden this force to ac
knowledge the etat major.
" The difcufiion being resumed, after
litis communication, was loon interrupted
i second time by the news of fcveral events
if which Paris was the theatre.
" The night had not been disturbed,
jut by the funeral found of the alarm bell
ind the noise of drums. A falfe patrol,
lad however been arretted, as it was re
sailing to the palace ; and in it were
ound courtiers, king's guards, and even
in abbe. Since day break, all the armed
.'itizens, the battalions of Marseilles, and
he federates of the departments, filled
he avenues of the palace and the national
iffembly- An immense multitude dem2nd
:d the punishment of the traitors appre
lended ; they had been legally interroga
ted, and nothing was wanting to their
:onviction of guilt; they were put to
leath ; and their heads borne on bloody
aikes, exhibited a striking lelfou to the
:nemies of the people, that if their patience
be long* their vengeance ia terrible. Suleau,
well known by his counter revolution li
iels, and journals, met the fame fate. He
bad been apprehended in arms, and the
jniform of a grenadier of the national
iuard, although not enrolled in it; he was
repairing to the palace.
'* Terrified by these examples, with Ut
ile confidence in the courage of his friends,
the king was come to fcek an asylum in
the tnidft of the representatives of the na
tiom He was followed by his wife, by
his children, and his filler. At firft he
took his feat by the fide of the president, ■
and afterwards withdrew to the bar with,
his family ; but by the terms of t}*e con
llitution, the assembly could not debate in
his presence, and he was made to retire to
i place ufuallv occupied by the reporters
for a newspaper. Ten commilfioners were
then nominated to go and appease the
people.
'■ The two parties were in fight of each
ither. The Swift, guards, and abundance
t>f the valets of the court, disguised as na
ional guards, occupied the palace. Diffe
rent detachments of the national guards,
:itizens armed with pikes, the Mai feillois,
the federates, were ranged in battle array
n the fqudre or the Carousel. 1 hey knew
not that the palace was filled with troops ;
hey were under apprehensions for the
lational aflembly, from the ptoximify of
this palace which was aow become a place
t>f arms ; th< y feared it might soon become
the point of rendezvous for the coun
ter revo'iutionitts, and the cradle of a civil
war. They wiflied to take pofieffion of it ;
they could not be reproached with de
liring to violate the fafetyof the king, for
they knew that he was in the national tf
fembiy. T'ie garrison of the palace cou
ftantly refufed to let them become matters,
of it, aftd liad made preparations for de
fence. The gates, however, were opened,
the firft rank of the Swiss had grounded
their arms, the reft were waving their hats
on the point of their bayonets. Some
national guards ran Up, holding out .their
hands to them, and were received by a
volley offhot. This ast of treachery ferred
only to exasperate the outrage of the pa
ti iota. A long and cruel combat ensued.
Swords glitter, canr.on thunder, and pour
forth dceth: on both fidei the fire is keptup with moll fatal activity. The Swiss han
dled their arms with more dexterity and a
finer aim ; the patriots fought with more
ardour and intrepidity. 'i'hcfe are all he
roes ; The Marfeillois are lions. At
length courage aird the better cause tri
umphed : the Swifsore broke in upon, and
a g-reat carnage puiiijhes their peilidy and
their obltinate refillance. The vidtory
cott us much blood ; about fifty patriots
fell, and a cm'-.-at number were .wo«Bded
We rr.nft not forget to mention, that the
commillioneTS of the alTembly were in the
confufidn, i ut the citizens made a rampart
fur them of their bodies.
*' The national assembly difphyed no
less courage; the members deliberated
a.: id the n-oife of cannon j leveral mulket
fliOt entered the windows—Vine la Liber
ie J Vive I'egaiilcl exclaimed all the mem
bers, and ail liiing at once with their
hands llretched out towards heaven, swore
to die for the fafety of their country.
" Scarce a fourth part of the Cote
Droit (the Anti Jacobins) attended the
fitting ; all the patriots were at their poll
It was efiential to ascertain, by callii*.;;
oyer the names of the reprefeutatives ol
the people who did not abandon then
funitii.ns ,>i the moment of danger. Tht
-call was d creed, and every member pre
lent, as he anlwered to his name, look the
following oath :—ln the name of the nation.
JJkusar to maintain liberty anti equal ty, 01
to die at my p'Jl.
'* Seve ai refjlutions were then pasTer
to invite the people to confidence, and tc
requelt tiiem to remove the arrest undei
which they had put their beloved mag if
trite; it was thn. that the nitional as
frtr.bly named M. Petion.
The provisional administrators of the
commons were admitted to the bar, and
by the organ of M. Leonard Bourdon,
prefsftted their homage to the aftembly,
and took the oath of fidelity, to the law.
and the fafety df the people. They were
tntrt (led with the care of making known
to the citizens the resolutions before paiTed,
" After the victory, the crowd entered
the palace, and soon was feena great num
ber of those citizens whom the infolenl
ariftocracv call Jans culottes, brigands
bringing to the aff.mbly the queen's jew
els, articles of great value, money, anc
papers of impor anee. A schedule of th<
property was made out at the table, an
the papers were feut to the committee oi
fafety.
*' Many Swiss foidi rs ar.d ofKcers we:t
prisoners. The assembly put them undei
the fafeguard of -the law, of the people,
and -French A n addixf. drawr
up by Lamsrfjui, on the events oi the day
was ordereii t6 be sent to the depa'tments
In it tiie tnftiweftion of the people is re
presented a confequtnce of th<
treasons with wlmcli they were firrrounded
and tl.c departments warned flgainll ca
lumniius or exaggerated accounts of it'
T «*>■*■ ~
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
P a a i s dug. 8.
The miniii-er .it war yesterday annotinc
ed co the ailembly, that the Auftrians, t<
the nun,ber of _;0,000, had crofled thi
Rhine auc] entered France.
Tlie pafiage was effected at fi-veral differ
ent places at one and tile fame time
Tlsre;- thtotifafld of them immediately cool
post at Guermerfheiiu.
i he citizens are ijyi.ig frnra ewcry pari
of the ngdom t the frontier , and ail th<
departments are exerting ihemfelves wit!
unexampled and unabating zeai.
That of Vofges being required to furr.ifl
(-.000 national guards, obeyed the requifitiot
by fending 9000 men.
In another part of the kingdom, 6co<
armed citizens were raised ill a few hours
and in fix days afterwards arrived at th:
frontiers.
A number of deserters with their arm
and accoutrements, arrive daily at Valen
ciennc in large bodies.
Landau has received a large reinforce
ment from the army under M. Biron ; it;
garrison now amounts to 7,400 men.
Some recent disputes concerning the de
nial kation of the Frontiers, are likely tc
involve the hou e of Austria once more in a
yar w.th the Ot.oman Porte.
111 France the impolition oftythes is for
evei aboliihed : tlie people have already
experienced the happy eft'ects of being re
leased from oppteliion.
During the last autumn, the hutbandmen
'In leveral pari tlies began their harvelt in a
manner exprellive of their gratitude, both
to jod and to the national alfembly.
1 neir pallors accompanied them to the
field; Te Dtum and other anthems were
performed ; and the grateful elfufions of
the he »rt attended to heaven in praises and
tjiaiikfgivings.
The mod thankful acknowledgments
were made to their legislators, by whose
wife and merciful decrees every one was
about to reap the fruitiof his labor ; happy
that he could now call the whole produce
of his fields hi-> own.
Millie and dancing and innocent feftivi
tv, di(played through the parilh the felici
ty of its inhabitants.
Aug'. 13. —The citizens killed at the cas
tle have been interred with military honors
—All the newspapers in. oppolition to the
Jacobins, or ruling party, are suspended :
The" printing materials of forne of them
burnt, particularly of Journale tie Paris, ant!
Gazette Univerfelle.
Two letters are already found, and pub
lilhed; exhibiting proofs of the correspon
dence that has been held between the royal
family, the court, and the enemies of
France.
Sixty of the Swiss who had escaped in the
general mafl'acre of the guards, and were
conducted to the community, were fcized
by the populace and torn to pieces.
The free citizens of the fifteen fonthern
departments of France have circulated a
hand-bill, offering the following rewards
to any perfoVi that fliall aflaffinate, or fc ng
'.he heads of the under-written person
the head Of Francis the ad, Emperor of
Germany, 400.000livres (30.000 l Pennfyl-
Vania currency)—fur the head ofFreder'ck
William, king otPruffia, 400,000 iivrcs ;
the duke of Brunftvick, 400,000; Monllenr,
the king of France's brother, 300.000 ;
Charles Philippe d'Artois, 300.000; Louis
J'-jfeph Conde, 200.000; Louis Henri Joseph
Bourbon, 200,000 ; Gen, Bouille, 200,0c0 ;
Lainbelo, 100,000; Broglio, 100 000; Mi
rabcauTonneau, ioo,ooo;Calonne, 30,000;
the furphi Aim to he appropriated tis a fund
to reward those who thai I facritice any of
file lei's conliderable adherents of the aris
tocrats or combined po\\er3. The lub
icription is already filled.
Ceremonial in prefacing lie petition for dethroning
the French Mbnarc/i.
A deputation from the citizens alien)bled
at the Champ de Mars, appeared at the bar
of the National Afl'embly [Aug. 6] and
were admitted. They were preceded by
a man bearing a pike, with a woolen cap,
representing the cap of liberty. In the cen
tre of the pike was placed a piece of paste
board, ufcriJjed with the uor.ls, Duckaznce
iu Hoi {Depolition of the king]— After the
writing had been taken away, by order of
the afi'embly, the orator of the deputation
was permitted to advance—He then spoke
as follows :
" The country is in danger : we have ac
|uired the right of speaking bold truths, and
■on will doubtless have courage enough to
hear them.
" Despotism has only changed its afpeS,
not its principles: we are betrayed; and
yotj have neither pointed out the origin of
our misfortunes, nor Tile means of prevent
ing them in fu tire.
"A perfidious court labours to deflroy
us. Its plots are d.(covered ; and French
men, now become free, will <?nter into no
accommodation with their enemies. It is
'lot the B iih!e that is mow to be overturn
ed ; it is the Caltle of the Thuilleries [Plau
dii.]
A perjured, a traitorous king, is at the
lead of government. The favorites of the
court have found means to corrupt tome of
the member > of this afi'embly ; conspirators
are scattered over all the kingdom ; and as
yet the law has not smote a (ingle culprit.
" The people are become indignant ; and
they declare to you, through'me, that they
have rejourned the vengeance to which
.hey are entitled, by the law of nature, on
ly, in order to commit its execution to the
laws of society.
"Vie demand reparation in behalf of
he nation, whose sovereignty has been bar
tered away. If the decrees of the conlli.
tneat bodyafter the the 2 ift ofjune, 1792,
are examined, any one will be tempted to
krgue their utility. The fovereigity may
well t 'ciajin the laws which it hath not
enacted.
" As the ancients at certain awful peri
ods threw a veil over the llatues of the
jjods, we demand that you mayalfovel
the Rights ot Man ; that you cause an ac
count to be tip of all the crimes com
"inted in the king's name ; that Louis XVI
may be decreed to have abdicated the roy
alty ; and that primary afiemblies may be
convoked, in order to form a national con
vention, to which every citizen who can
prove his relidence and payment of impolls,
fliall be admitted.
" We further require, that all the gene
ral officers of the army may be reformed ;
that La Fayette be put in a lhue of accu
sation; that the levies of troops be aug
mented ; that the patriotic miniilers be re
flacedjthat the executive power be confined
o them ; that all our anibafladors be re
called , that a clear ltatemenc of the finan
ces be published ; and that the sale of mo
ney be 110 longer permitted."
Fifty pages of lignatures w ere annexed
to this petition.
M. Dumourier has made two forties
from the camp ot Maulde, in one of which
he has dislodged a body of Tyrolefe sol
diers- in the tecond they furpnzed and cut
to pieces a detachment of the enemy polled
at Moi les. On the 4th of Augult four hun
dred Hungarian dragoons were cut in pie
ces in a (kirniifli, hi which the French lofl
only 25 men.
The crime of the three old priests, thai
were executed at Cauderan, near fiour
deaux, was forging of affignats, and hol
ding a treasonable correspondence with the
enemies of France.
The following is the petition-os the jacobin foctet)
in Paris to the national assembly•
" Legislators !
" Wearied out by long and irksome op
predion, the people of France rose up thf
I 24th of July 1792, and the Baftile disap
peared ! Victim of the corruption and kna
very of the majority of the Conltitue nt As
fembly the 10th of Augnft 1-912, the;
flood up once more to annihilate an unjuf
power, a rock against which their fove
reignty split. Frenchmen now a days de
ftroy the very effigies of their tyrants
which is publishing to the univerie thai
they aim at being free ! attend to that ter
rible voice, legislators! it is the voice 0:
nature ! of reason ! and of power ! lent
an attentive ear to it; and, until yon Oval
have made room for a national conventi
on, let all your decrees be dilated by th:
genius of freedom ! ... Be what the time
require you to be ! —Adopt vigorous, po
tent, and efficacious measures, and withou
prejudging any thing relative to the opera
tions of the national convention —exer
yourselves in rendering ii as perfect aspol"
lible. Such is the talk you have toper
form. The people are up; nor will they si
peaceably down until their rights, too Ion;
invaded and usurped, do take place of th<
pretended duties insolently imposed upoi
them ; they will not fit peaceably down un
tii their enemies be reduced to a ihamefu
inability of doing further mifchief, am
until the traitors of the country (hall havi
been brought to condign punilhnient so:
their pertkiy.
" We, therefore request die national as
fembly, in the name of the forty eight lec
tins of the capital,
" In the firft place, withoutenumeratinj
the long lift of La Fayette's well knowi
crimes, that they do declare him irtfaniou
and a traitor to his country ; that they d<
allow any fold er or citizen to fall upon
and bring him dead or alive to the bar 0
the national aflembly.
"2dly, That they dodifmifstheftaffofficer
(1' i.tat Major) of the army and all th<
public officers appointed by Louis XVI
I'he French people in their turn, declari
war againfc nobles and against tyrants—
they cannot, therefore, conlide in nobles
nor in the creatures of Louis XVI.
" 3dly, that the public officers appointee
by the king, being in his interest, can nei
ther be admitted into the primary Afl'em
blies, nor be chol'en by such.
"4thly, That the primary afiemblies dt
name their own reprefenratives, and tha
therefore there be no electoral bodies.—l
will be ia vain objected that this mode is te
dious, on account of the population and ex
tent of each department.—To do awaj
that argument, we ihall iliuftrate what we
advance, by quoting the city of Paris as a:
instance. —1 lie capital is more populou:
than a whole department, flill the mayoi
and the municipal officers are named by the
p. unary ailfiiiblies of th; sections ; in fliort
all the objCittons against election by prima
ry alieinblies mcli yield to this grand prin
ciple.
•' The sovereign people fhotild alienate
their sovereignty as little as puffiblc.
'5.1i1y, in si. e peiitioneil e.jueft,that the
national affimbly do, without lot's of time,
repeal the decree concerning a governoi
for the prince royal : because the natio;
willies to be entirely free ; and because il
is anticipating 011 their will, and the pro
ceedings ot the national convention, tc
think of a fucceiibr to the throne. Such,
legiflators,is the will of the people of Paris!
who do not fear being contradicted by the
department; the sacred flame of libertv
blazes m their bolbms. Paris began the re
volution iu the year 1789—Paris will bring
it to a ror.clulion in <792. We repeat it ;
the people rose up to re lift oppression—-and
the people will not fit down uftpeace, until
they arc certain there exilt no more opprui*
fors."'
national assembly.
Monday, Aug. 13.
At an eatly hour in the morning M. Anachar
(is Clootz, accompanied by fevcral Prussians
his countrymen, came up to the bar; he thu
utltircijc A the legillative body.
" 1 here would be no slaves, if mankind un
derftood your decreei. The throne of amo
naich is nothing more in the eyes of him whi
has peiuled the seventeen articles of theri rights
ot man, than 11 mountebank's stage. A ciowi
bearer (mi Porte Cauronrre) a crowned execu
tive power is an unhin st ing power.
We are Prussians, we offer to levy a Pruffiai
legion. We have at our head a colonel, whe
has long been the favorite of ,vißory ; th<
great Frederick acknowledged his merit j ant
prized it 1 Frederick's lucceffor, not equall)
ju:t, not equally dilcern ng, has neglefled him.
1 he indifference of Frederick William 1:
not the sole caule of our attachment to France.
Our hereditary avei Iron for the house of Austria'
our hatred for oppieffion, and our love foi
french laws, lead u?. to your prelence. Gen
tlemen, miflake not th« djlpofitions 0/ all true
I'iuffiansi
Berlin and Paris agree better than mod pjtipJe
are aware of. It is impossible that the league
between Pruflia and Austria can be of long du
ration ; a league entered into for the impious
end ol eflahlifhing Machiviaiiftn and Popery on
die banks of the Seine !
The king of Piutfia, more gallant than his
great predectflor, may continue to ruin himfelf
for two women, Antonietta of Austria, and
Catharine of Ruftia. The Pruflian>s, however,
will ftnke but feebly ; for -the imperiahlls they
ha;e—tor t he emigrants they despise."
The President allured the pet,tioner», that
the alLnnbly accepted their offer with gratitude,
and would 'ay he object of it before the proper
committee, w.thinjunctions to bring lip the re
pott without loss of time. Thev were admit
ted within the bar.
A member eagerly converted the oiler into a
motion ; he wilhed the new corps to be called,
"The legion of universal fraternity."
M. PnytalvauU thought " the Vandal'iegi
an" would be the mofl proper na:ne, decieed:
iM. Bazire informed the assembly, that seve
ral letters had been found in the king's apart
ments, among which was the correspondence of
he Jacobines of Maifcilles to their brethren of
Pari - Those letters had been intercepted by
U. Blancgilly memberofthe National AfTem
>ly, and handed to the king. He added, that
VI. Blancgilly had previoully written notes in
he margin descriptive of fcveral persons friend
y to the Jacobines, consequently the king's ene- a
mies. 4
The commiftioners sent to summon M.
Blancgilly to appear in his place, and answer to
he charges made againfl him, returned and
arought word, that he was gone to the country.
ThefTcmbly decreed, that his papers Ihould
ae fealcd up.
M. Quinettc,, in the name of the committee
•xtraoi dinary, proposed, and the afleinbly de
:ree J, the following articles.
1. The hotel of the keeper of the seals, in
he-place Vcndome, is the dwelling appointed
ior the king and his family.
2. Thofc who guard the king and his family
ire under the command of the mayor of Paris
mrl the commander in chief; they aru anfwer
»ble for their pei foils.
3. The sum of 500,000 livres is granted to
he king for hisdomeftic expences, until the na
ional convention shall decree otheiwife; that
um is to be paid bv weekly inllalments, out of
he extraordinary fund. Proper receipts to be
liven bv the per Con appointed by the king to
receive the fame.
4. The neceflary furniture to be sent to the
ioicl for the king's use.
The minilter for public contributions is to
uperintend the domains, lately dependant on
he civil lift, and the sums ariling from thence
ire to be paid into '.he public trealury.
,5. Nobody can go into the king's apartments
without a written permission from the munici
pality.
M. Le Jofne mentioned the logographic.
print asbcinga faithlefs vehicle of the Allem
bly's proceedings.
The committee of infpeflion received orders
io examine that paper, and bring up a report in
:onfetjuence.
The commiflaries of the commons of Paris
in the state of the capital—peace, as ihey
did, was peifeflly refioied— all the ariflocratic
3rcfles had been deilroyed—the ftaff officers of
he Gens ci'Armes were in cufiody—the aflaflins
•vho threatened the mayor's life were in irons;
.V court martial to judge the Swiss was aflem
jlcd. The z* :mbly beftbwed much 2pplaufe
in the conauftofthe commons.
M. Thuriot moved, that all the demolilhed
latues fhouldbe converted to cannos.
M. La Cioik conceived it would be a patrio
ic decree, that wouldoider all the brazen mo
lumems in the churches to be melted intoartil
ery.
Not only in Pfris, added M. Thuriot, but
.hroOgliotit the whole empire—whatever is me
al in ihechuiches, nationalhoufes,in the dwel
ings formeily in the king's polfeffioß, Ihould
3e melted down and made cannon of.
M La Croix's motion was decreed.
M. Francois moved, that the lands called
'ominon Ihould be eq;ialiy divided among the
nhabitamsof the neighbourhood in which such
'houid be found.—Decreed.
The fame member moved, that the property
of the emigrants (hould be fold in small lots—
Decreed.
Sifting ofTwfday night.
A member read a pallage from a letter he
had received from Bred:—" The toth of Aug.
the citiireiis of Brell transported 72 priefls who
had not taken iht oattis —Thefhip the people
ot Breilchofe lor their conveyancc had been
tormerly a Gmneainan ; and the good people
ordered the captain to make the full Spanifli
port.'—(The allembly applauded.)
M- Genfonnet, in the name of the committee
ofgeneial fafety, proposed, and the allembly
decieed, the following articles :
1. The fix Secretaries of State,
by the assembly, are to compose the executive
power.
2. 1 hey arc charged to seal and promulgate
the laws of the llate.
3. Each Secietary in his turn, and weekly*
is to prefideat the council board.
4. A double copy of each law is to be made
out ligned by the keeper of the seals, and sealed
with tnefeal of (late ; onecopy to be depofitcd
iii the keeper's archives, the other in the nati
onal ailembly's.
5. 1 he laws ate to be promulgated.—The
decrees of the national allembly are entitled laws,
and are to be publilhed without any previous
formula they arc, hgwever to be conclude^thus:---" In Ifce name of the ration, the exe
cutive council, adinterim, order the admimllra
live bodio and the courts of juflice to tranlcribe
tliefe prefcnts, &c."
6. The feai of Hate {hall be changed i hence
forward itfhall bear the figure of liberty, arm
ed with a pike, with a cap of liberty at the top,
with this inlcription. "It! the name of the
Frcnch Nation."
7. The fentencesof the court of juflice (hall
begin thus: "In the name of the French Nati
*!!."
8. The officers ofjnftice, formerly called the
king's commitlanes, shall for the future be na
med national commilf.iries.
M. B*irein the name of the committee de
Surveillance, presented several letters and me
morials found in the king's library. T lie let
ters were written from Coblentz to M. Noaillcs
de Poix, to obtain pay for the king's guaids at
Coblentz. It appeared, that the king had paid
them even after the month of January 179-*
M. informed the aiiembly, that the
Prince de Poix had been taken intocuflody, by
prder of the Commiuee de Surveillance.
To the Editor of the National Gazette.
sir,
AS there are many devoted to opinions
for no other reason but becaule fa-
fhionable, so there are some no less fond of
whatever is Angular and unfafhionable. —
Whether this lalf weakness be mine, and if
so, to be accounted for by the peeyifhnefs
of old age, the caprice of a particular tem
per, or an obstinacy in adhering to wrong
idea, taken up at hazard, or in any more
probable way or manner, I fliall leave to be
fettled by other?. Butfo it i-s, Mr. Editor,
that notwithstanding all the reafoniug, rail
ing, and flourifcing we have had against the
following opinioni, I cannot, for my life,
bring myfelf to flrike out a finale one oi
lliem from my present political creed
/believe, that a man may, in very deed, he
a sincere friend to the government as laid
down in the conftttution ; and an enemy tc
principles on which the government is car
ried into practice ; as also, that a man may
be a dccidcd enemy in his heart to the re
publican principles of the conflitution, ant
a zealous friend withal to meafnres and ob
jects purtued by the government.
I believe that a charge on the policy of
the government as favourable to luxury,
which is the fruit of wealth, is in no wife
inconliftent with another charge thereon
of not pursuing the real and general inter
est and prosperity of the country. For, the
Ivealth that produces mod luxury is thai
which isunreafonably thrown into the hand,
of a few, to the impoverifhmcnl of the many ;
whereas the true prosperity of a country
conlifts in the grealejl practicable dijfufion of thi
lawful gratifications of life, througn the great
body of the foeiety. There never was t
country where fuperfluity and luxury were
enjoyed by the generality of the people ;
nnlefs among the Romans, who lived 01;
the plunder of the whole world. This i:
not only, in ordinary, impollible, but the
tendency of things is quite tlu- contrary
way, namely, to heap upfuperfluous wealth
qn a fin all part of the foeiety. made lip oi
the comforts of life abflrafted from the ge
i»erality. In so far as this tendency (tvliict
is very much favoured and increafedii c
vast extended country by various rank
cannot be checked and controtile rb; the
jnft rules of civil foeiety, the evil fnonld ot
Submitted to, like all other unavoidable e
vils, with patience. But when this ten
dency is favoured by public mtafure;, hai
been the cafe in molt governments, bui
wnich ought never to have appeared i;i sue.
a republican one as ours, then evtrygoo;
citizen Should berth' hinifelf to remedy the
evil.
I believe that a system may be nothing
more in the gross than a copy or imitation
and yet may contain therein particular novel
ties ; and also, that a fcrvile imitation oi
monarchical meafnres may be proper!)
deemed, held, and called a new-l'angled po
licy in a republican government.
I believe that as it is plain the meaftire
sf the government have obferred and con
formed to neither the substance of public
juflice, nor the ftriflnefs of public faith,
that those who profefs to be warm friend;
to the one or the other, and yet launch
forth into universal and unqualified praifc
on the measures of the government, arc
more likely to be gainers bv such measures,
than to be sincere in fa : d profelfions-
I believe it to be more probable that the
guilty (liquid deny the truth, than that ew
senses flioukl deceive us; consequently, when
Jjte outward signs of wealth, and the visi
ble ftibfcriptions of large funis to the fund
and the bank are observed in a number o!
Our rulers, who, I fore the year 1789, were
Uotoriqijfly destitute of such wealth, that s
denial of the fa£t is no proof of their 1101
having enriched themselves out of theii
own plans, proceedings, and measures.
I believe, that if the mal-prafiices char
ged on our rulers were well founded, th<
gu Ity actors and partners therein wotilc
naturally endeavour to turn oif the atten
tiqn of the people therefrom, by the vert
means now pra£tifed, to calumniate theii
deteAorj. to pijiTecute and obftrutt truth
telling, le vTp',l to make a mock of al
pairmtifii -.vaatever, as mere pretence
1o the monarchical, miniftfrial
jnd corrupt doflrine, that power alone n
the feififh object of ail; yet :hat the people
would not be right once in a kundad. nay, c
million of tinu u supposing thai Uk • - tiler
abufe their power, and eonlequently ough
ui run the rilk of'ioling their liberties, ra
ther than prefumc against so many chance,
to examine, decide, and interpufe as to
their proceedings.
I am, yours, &c.
Oftobern. PARADOX.
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
I Congratulate, Sir, our worthy fpernla
tors on the laudable pleasure admini
(tered to them by the Secretary of the Trea
sury, as denionltrated by a writer in vou.
Gazette of Wednesday last, which ill ul:
give full frtnftion to the humane afid cha
ritable reflection, that they are enjoying fe
deral millions a year for the benefit sue!
blejfing of the people, Whose pockets are dis
burdened thereof; and I sigh and mourn for
the ingratitude and stupidity oi rile people,
who think it enough to pay a debt, becaule
they owe it 5 and do not fee, confefs, and
acknowledge, tiiat such an artificial national
wealth, would be cheaply pnrchafed by an
import which can only burthen their tradi
and agriculture, and an excise, that can at the
worlt, only endanger their liberties : nay,
who are so wickedly perverse, that they will
not underfland thf obvtctts myjlcry of an arti
ficial capital, but rire opening their ears to
(liggeltioiis, that artijicial capital is artificial
influence-, and thatfeet et manauvres are already
011 fait to work off this injtuertcr, throughout the
union, ai an engine for com
binations. MONIIOR.
Philad. October 10.
wiann.«i»..
PHILADELPHIA.
October. 13.
Samuel Smith, Esq. is el. fted a repre
Tentative In Congress for the state of Ma
ryland, for the diftrift of the town and
county of Baltimore.
How unlucky it is that Congress did
not let federal years run on after the col
lection of revenue began, before the pay
ment of intereit on the debt was to be
made. The intereit for the whole delay
would then have been consolidated into
the principal, the a-rears of revenue would
have increased some millions ; and being
applied to difchaKge the consolidated interefl,
might have been pompously held out to
the public as a reduilion of the principal of
the debt.—What a pity, likewise, that the
money appropriated as a finking fund to
reduce the debt, had not been used at such
times and in such manneras to buy up the
debt at the lotuefl rate to be had, instead of
being dealt away at the highcjl rata going ;
or speaking more truly, in the bighefl lids
at cr.cc : hot the law woul 1 allow. There
woula have been better ground then to
talk of a fvving spirit in lie public manage
ment : nd the approving voice of a re
lieved pe.iple might come in the
piace of the clcpi and acclamations which
he -action room resounded with from the
pampered gamb'ers 111 the public funds.
On "I ue "day last wa3 held at the llate
house in this city, the election of numbers
of the state legidature, and representatives
in Congress. The number of free citizens
that attended 011 the occasion was very
great, and riotwithllanding the variety of
tickets, an ! the difference of sentiment
whici. appeared on this occalion, the elec
tion was closed in harmony and good un
derftanifing foil wing is the return
of the number of votes given in at the elec
tion, for the city and county of Philadel
phia. F. A. 3344. T.
Hartley 3333 J. W. Kjfctera 33 19. W.
Fiifdley 3319. D. 3310. W. Ir
rtfk 3V'5- Mifilenberg 3rgi. T.
Scott 1890. T. Fitzfimons 1878. W.
Bingham 1762. J. Armltrong 1 752. H.
Wynkoop 1708. S. Sitgreaves 1064. C.
Thoi/ipfon 1776. J Bifrclay 1642. W.
Montgomery 164:. I. D. Se/geant 1610.
A. Gfegg 1598. J. S/iilie 1469.
It is a fad, that the demand for print
ing-paper has become so exttnfive in this
city and Hate, and from oiher Rates that
depend upon the Pennsylvania mills for a
supply, that it can no longer be answered.
It is hoped that a regard to the intercih
of literature in the United States, will in
duce the legislature to take some step to
wards remedying this evil. Perhaps it
will be found, that the taking off the pre
sent duty on foreign paper will be the onlj
means, for feme time to come, of procuring
a fufficiency of this very necessary, anc
indispensable art cle.
Many persons lately arrived from France,
cannot help expressing their alloiiifhmeiii
to fiad the accounts of French affairs,
co,' •<-; r. '1,1 l>iti(h prints, so generally
credited as they are ; particularly those
narratives of the horrid barbarities fa d to
have been committed in Frar.cc, and of
the powerful oppolition to the national
proceedings. " They assert in the moll
p: (i;i*e terms, that the people are every
• here united—That notwithstanding the
king has been proved to be a traitor, the
tumults in Paris have never been of conse
quence enough to draw off the tradesmen
and manufacturers of that city from their
daily occupations — that »he city was never
in a more flourifhing situation, and that
the whole kingdom of France never expe
rienced more profnerous days.
" Such was the situation of the frontiers
of France, that the duke of Brunfwick,
with his army of 60,000 men, would not
be able in a iiege of fix months to carry a
finglc town ; and if he fhouldbe so impru
dent as to march but fifty miles into the
country, his whole army must inevitably
be facrificed—or Burgoyned."
. Late received returns of elcftions in the
Rate of Maryland. For the second diltri6t,
John F Mercer, Efq—For the fourth
| dillri<st, Uriah Forrcjl, Efq —Forthefixth
J diftridt, Gabriel Chriflie, Esq.
i On the 18th of August, a number of
I the sol tiers of M. dela Fayette's army ap
peared at the bar of the national aflembly,
informing, that the general and chiefs had
endeavoured to seduce them from their
duty to the liat'on ; in consequence of
which they had with difficulty made their
escape from the army. From this and
other treasonable charges, strongly proved
and corroborated, the assembly palled the
following decree :
I. It appears to this assembly, that thei'e
isjuft ground for accusation againlt M
! La Fayette, heretofore commander of the
I army of the north.
I 11. The executive power (hall in the
molt expeditious manner possible, put the
present decree into execution ; and all con
llftuent authorities, all citizens, and all
soldiers, are hereby enjoined, by every
means in their power, to secure his person.
111. The assembly forbids the army of
the north any longer to acknowledge him
as general, or to obey his orders) and
ftridtly enjoin that no person whalfoever
(hall furnilh any thing for the troops, or
nay any money fcr their use, but by the
orders of M. Dumourier.
We shall be informed before-hand of
the part that the assembly will take on the
question of the forfeiture ; for, in the in
termediate time, they are by deputations
to collect the opinions for the yeas ot noes
I A large, commodious and elegant ftate
j lioufe has been lately erected at Trenton,
| in New- Jersey, for the accommodation of
the legislature and public offices of that
[late. It is said to be almost. finifhed, at
! leatl so far as comfortably to receive the
! two Houses at the October session. Ihe
building is 100 feet long by 50 wide, with
a semi-hexagon at each end, over which is
to be a ballultrade.
Mr. John Churchman, author of the in
genious new Magnetic Theory, having
failed in his applications, in this country,
i for the means of enabling him to prosecute
"j his difcoveriee, by making a voyage to
' Baffin's bay, lately embarked at Baltimore
.! for London, it is said, with a view to apply
to the Literati Societies there, to counte
nance him in his future endeavour! for
. the above ptirpofe.
Extraß asa Utter from Paris, July 3 1 •_
" The honours (hewed by the national affem
blv to the memory of admiral J. P. Jones mor
tified the English here to a great degree. 1 o
get a liule heart's ease or. this orcafion, they
' | wrote leveial narratives of his lite, ituffed with
• ' falfhood and low abuse, and calculated to mislead
• the public in regard to this celebrated and heroic
. \ character. The patrietic French however,
have done him full justice; and nothing fecmed
to furpriie them more, than that any Atne
' rican (hould be found to participate in Koglifh
national prejudice on this occafioo."
TThe following letter from an officer in
8 Lord Cornwallis's army, in the ha(t-In
t dies, represents the motives ofßvitaisfor
a making a peace in that country, in a very
I different light from those accounts which
have appeared in the minifteria'i prints.]
3 Extract of a Utter from an officer vn the 7 \JI regi
mint, dated Camp near Seringapatam, Fcbru
]' ary 24, 1792.
it "The whole army is amazed and deject
ed at this extraordinary peace j even the
y countenance of the comnr.Ynder in chief can
' r not conceal his difappoinUnent. Itiswhif
j pered that he has received positive order:
from England to put a period to holtilitie
on any terms ; and indeed we cannot all)
other way account fop so unexpetted a niea
it fore.
" Our victory of the 6rh inft. was very
:learly earned ; eleven officers were killed,
»n<J a proportionate number of privates,
rhere was particularly a great carnage in
:he right wing, commanded by Gen. Mea
iows.
"From that specimen of the difctpline
md courage of the enemy, we (hcruld cer
:ainly have found much more difficulty in
a king Seringapatam than has hitherto been
njagincd. But there scarcely is one man
n the army who does not firmly believe
:hat we would have taken it, although at
he expence of much blood. The place is
'ortified with wonderful art, and is one of
he strongest iu India ; but there never was
uch an army as ours in India before ; the
>fficers and men are all zealous in the
:aufe, and they look upon themselves as
nvincible.
"The country powers, our allies, inltead
>f afiifting us, have been like a miH-ftone
ibout our neck. They make a scarcity of
trovifion;, ?md boast of their courage; yet
hey are always absent in danger, and fore
110ft in the moment of viflory, which they
hen pretend is obtained by them. Capt.
little's victory is a flrong inllance of this,
n (hort, they refute to do any thing, but
hare the plunder ; and the articles of the
leace are made entirely to please them.
They will have all ; for as to the territory
eded to the company, it will cost more to
:eep and protest it than it is worth ; and
s to the mare of money which will be di
ided, it will not enable Lord Cornwallis
0 keep his word, of making the officers
nd men some compenfatioil for not plun
lering Seringapatam, much less to reim
mrfe the company.
" We are mostly of opinion, that it would
ave been better for the company to have
aken nothing at all, than territory which
nuft incur more expence than it is worth,
nd a promise of money which will never
e paid, for none of us place 10 much faith
11 Tippoo as to think he will keep his wo-d.
Veal! believe that his design is to tiiie
vith us until the monsoons set in, in order
hat they may oblige us to do what he can
ot—retire.
" Ail my brethren of the blade, as well
s myfelf, will be great losers by this war.
Vhen I return to Madras I shall just be
iree hundred pounds worse than when I
left it. Lord Cornwallis, whom we all
efpect, is very feniible of this, and there
jre proposes dividing a part of the money
1 be paid by Tippoo, among us ; but as
te do not expect any of that money will
ver be paid, we place 110 dependence oil
ur pfomifed shares.
It is laid, that the inftruflions sent frornt
ngland to Lord Cornwallis, commanded
im to make peacc on any terms, and that
' there is an opportunity for liim to make
uy kind of peace after receiving them, and
e does not embrace that opportunity, he
mft be answerable for the ccnfequences.
"his rs what we believe has deterred his
>rd!hip from attempting to cake Seringa
atam, as there is a poffib l;ty that iie
light have been unfnccefsful. We are all
onvincetl of his lordthip's ardor and brave
y, and we believe he will equally acknow
■dge ours.
Such is the effect of this peace upon our
'oops, that we (hall leave the Myforeroore
ifpiriced than if we had been defeated, and
riven out of it. Many of my brother of
cers declare, that it would have been bet
:r for them they had died under the walls
f Seriiigapatani, than to turn to their dif
;rent peace elfabiiftimeuts deeply in debt,
nd without a profpeft of paying it."
There is now living in this city a gentle
woman by the name of Barbara IVidener, a
Jerman by birth, who is now in her
ear. She enjoys health remarkably well,
nd pofletfei her light ill so great perfection
hat (he can read the smallest print, and
liread the tinett needle without the aid of
peflacles.
PRICE or STOCKS.
Six per cents ... <f-Jl
Three do. - - -
Deferred - - - i Ji_/i>
g-4lhares B. U. S. Co per cent.
Whole shares 48 1 -2. per cent
Erratum In Tv o. 85 of this Gazette, third
4th column, line 7 from the top, ::ftcr the
vord manufadures pieafe to insert ihe following
omitted through hurry and not garbled)
'and will enable htm and his friends to feleSl the
nr.fl firefitab/e mativfafhers
jSew-Jerfey Confiscated Lands.
WHr.REAS the tirft purchaser did not
Comply with the conditions of sale ;
:his is to give notice tfuc the following rraCi ot
l.ind, con'aining fifty acres and thirty nine hun
d.edths, Itrict mcaluie lituated in Hardirtnn town-
Clip, near the road that leads frnm Elijah CbF
lards, deceased, to Paulintkitl, late tl.e property
of Oliver De Larcev, will be fold at pubiic vendue.
The sale to begin on Wednefojy the 28th day
. f November next, at 2 o'clock in the afternoon
at Sussex courthouse 5 and besides calh, the tot
lowing Hate obligations will be received in pay
ment, to wit, —OScers and soldiers notes given
for the depreciation of their pay — notes g'vrn ro
the militia of this tlate for the arrearages of their
pa\ ——certificates liquidated by Silas Condid—and
notes given by the Treasurer of this state to per
sons who had demands against the confifcatcd
cftates of New-Jersey.
JOSEPH GASTON,
Agent for Sufax county.
oa. 24,1-91. 4W.14W.Mar cell a in a Consumption*
SMIT by the glance of thy bright eyes
When I, Marcella, fondly gaze,
Strange feelings in my bosom rife
And piflion all my reason sways :
Worlds 1 would banish from my view
And quit the god*—to talk with you.
The smile th?t decks your fading cheek
To me a heavy heart declares 5
When you are silent I would speak
But cowardice alarms my fears :
All must be sense, that you do prize.
All that-I fay, be grave and wife.
"When wandering in the evening /hade
1 (har'd her pains and felt her grief,
A thousand tender things I said
Bat she would grant me no relief;
When f'om her hair 1 brulh'd the dew
She li^h'd—and said, tii not for you !
When drooping, dull, and almost dead
W»th fevers brought from sultry climes.
She would not hold my fainting head,
But recommended me some rhymes
On patiewce and on fortitude,
Aud other things, less understood.
When aiming to engage her heart
With verses from the muses' stock,
She fate, regardless of my art,
And counted seconds by the clock :
" And thus (lhe cry'dj shall verse decay
And thus the world shall pass away."
When languishing upon her bed,
(No longer fond of India gowns)
I came—and while the patfon read
Of chryft'al skies and coral crowns,
She bade me at a distance Hand
And lean'd her head upon her hand.
So drooping hangs the fading rose
When fumfiner fends the driving shower,
So to the grave Marcella goes
Her whole duration but ar hour :
Who (hall oppose the fad decree
Or what, fair maid, recover th.»e ?
Such virtue in that ff/irit dwells,
Such fortitude amid such pain-
That now with pride my bosom fwelli
To think I have not liv'd in vain j
Since, flighting all the sages knew,
1 learn philosophy from you.
Ctnfideratiom on cjlablijhing a College far Old
Maids,
[Continued from our paper No. 97.]
Por the immediate government of such an insti
tution, I would recommend the following con
cifc code of ccnftitutional laws : —
THE patronage to be vested in a committee of
twelve ladits, felcfted by Parliament frora the
principal nobil'»t> of the kingdom ; and the power,
of nominating the treasurer, fecretarv, and other
ofiift ts, to be lodged in their bancs.
The name of each candidate, with her place of
abode and connexions, to be delivered in writing
and propeily vouched, to the committee ; and a
month to be allowed to consider r.er claim.
N j cino 10 be admitted without the writ
ten 01. jr of, at! ;cait, fix of the committee.
Eacii candidate to deposit two hundred pounds
in the han, s of the freafurer on admiifion j and:
at the fame time, a i'olemn promise of a i
Arid observance ess rules of the col- ■
lege—binding herfd:>o pay a ftipuiated fine fo> '
each offence againtt chdfe rules, or patiently sub- j
niit to expulsion.
No lady to apply for admilTion, whose
js not irreproachable, and who has not reached the j
fortieth year of her a^e.
The me-nbers to be at liberty to withdraw!
whenever they may deem it agreeable or ex.edi- ,
enc j for it is not intended that these celebrated
words of the Italian poet should be inferibed over j
the portal: <Laciatt ogn'i fperanxa, vo'i cbe'ntrate. y I
Leave hope behind, ye girls ibat enter here !
With refpeft to the oomeftic police of the col
lege, 1 will only offer a few hints ; to form a pro
per code of rules must be left to the wisdom of the
committee.
A principal or prioress fliould be eledled annu
ally by the committee, from the sisterhood, and
Implicit obedience 10 her orders be required from
iach member 5 an appeal, however, to be open
against her before the committee, in cafe of an
abuse of power.
A feleit committee of fix to be chosen from the
sisterhood by the gatronefles, to afiift the prioress,
and to audit accounts of the college.
The whole sisterhood to breakfait and dine in
common in the refedtory, except when incapacit
ated by age or ficknels from quitting their apart
ments.
Neither evening tea nor supper to be considered
as eftablifhsd meals.
A salary to be allowed the nearest clergyman of
the established church, for officiating every Sun
day and /eftival day in the chapel of the college.
the evening and the morning femce to be
read in the chapel every other day, by one of the
sisterhood.
Besides a butler, porter, cook and the feverai
offices of the kitchen, tiiere (hould be a certain
number of chambermaids} and this number to be
3n the proportion of one maid to three members.
Each member, however, to be allowed a maid to
attend on her own person, on the condition of her
coutributing 10/. annually to the funds
To encreale the comforts of the institution, and
to give the sisterhood an opportunity of enjoying
that degree of exertife which is indispensably nr
cefi'ary for the preservation of health, a number ci
Jiorfes and carriages fliould be provided, according
to the ability of the funds, and rclolution of the
committee, together with the necefiary attend
ants.
A certain proportion of the annual income, 01
a fubfeription railed amongst the members, to be
appropriated each year, for the purchafc of books
for the libraiy j butnobooksto.be u « haled or
feceived as donations, without the approbation of
the domcilic committee* ]
No visitors to be received before nine o'clock in
the morning, or after three o'clock in the after
noon j nor before fix o'clock in the evening, or
after nine o'clock at nighr. The gates to be
closed at ten o'clock precisely every night, and the
&eys to be deposited with the Prioress.
in defining the building it ihould' be observed,
r hat there ought to be a number of parlours pro
portionate to the number of bed chambers j also,
a music room, and a common fitting-room. Tins
room should be of considerable extent, fitted
up for the library.
An institution thus constituted, besides meeting
the proposed object, must be prodadlive of many
other advantages Here declining age might find
a foft pillow whereon to relt her head. Here un
prote<fled females might pass down the stream of
life without apprehension ©1" awaiting dangers.
Here, in the absence of care, and the fiience of
solitude, fancy might produce bright ettufions,
and valuable accefiions be occasionally made to the
stock of polite literature : tor within this pale of
f emale virtuej a Carter; a Montague; a Moore j a
Williams; a Brooke: or a Seward — (all old maids)
might arise. And here the arts of elegant ingenu
ity might be cultivated with fafety and iuccels.
But these are not the only advantages that would
result from such an institution. It would afford a
sure and comfortable asylum for those Old Maids,
whole lender stipend should be reduced to afcanty
pittance by the redaction of the national interest,
whenever parliament fball deem such a measure
expedient And, further, by opening a rich,
though distant protpeft of fubhuoary haprinefs to
f the 1 Voting fecnale, it would serve, in some degree,
; to defeat the dark arts of base seducers j and an
old age of neglect would no longer, by its visiona
ry terrors, precipitate the timorous virgin into the
indifloluble bands of matrimony.
But though 1 have thus briefly, and I trust,
clearly ftiown the many benefits which mull result
from the instituting a college for old maids,
1 have not the vanity to think that my feeble
voice, iftVing from the lhades of obfeurity, will
be honoured with the attention of mv country
men. 1 ftiall not then solicit it further. But 1
entreat that the Senate of this nation, —to whom
this plan is particularlv addressed, —will turn their
eyes to a fpe&acle now at their bar.—
—Behold a trembling group of am table females !
examine them narrowly, and perhaps )Ou will
nnd an aunt, a filler, or a niece amongst them.
See ! they kneel, and present to you, with down
cart eyes and melancholy countenances, a petition
.vhich contains the substance of these pages. D -
not disregard it j nor avert your eyes from he
lovely suppliants. Approach and raise them.
And with philanthropy beaming from your brows,
address them in words to thisefteft Be com
Jorted. We are sensible of your grievances, and
will redress them in the manner you desire. We
confefs we have too long lavished the wealth of
the nation in ere&ing sumptuous edifices, and in
creating establishments for the comfort, advantage
and convenienceof our own sex, while we have
ungratefully negk&ed yours, to whom we are not
'>iil\ ind«bted for ourexiftence, but for the tew
sweets which are mingled in the bitter cup we re
ceived from our firft parents. We eagerly em
brace the opportunity which now offers itfelf of
compensating for our negledl and ingratitude.
We owe you too some reparation for the misery
we have induced on many of your sex. But you
have hastened the day of retribution. —Retire in
full confidence that your prayer has been propiti
'uifiy heari "
~~METEOROLOGICAL GBSEHVA'IIONS y
Oflober, 1:92.
DH\ Bar. T/ier. Wind. Weath %
| IVcdntfday, 3. - 3c. o 36 Calm Fair
o 29. 0 60 S W do
' Thurjday, 4. 7 29. 85 43 Calm flazey.
2 29. 9 63 __W. do
Friday, 5- * 3° 12 45 S. W. Fair?
N 2 30. \( 60 1
Saturday, 6. 7 30.07 40 N.N.W. Fair.
_ 2 3° N. E- do.
Sunday, 7. 7 30. 3 43 N. E. fair.
2 30- 2 63 ■ do. ;Hazey
Monday, 8. 7 30. 2 41 ) Fair
Odober 2 30. 1 62 I Hazey
Tuejday, 9. 7 30.05 50 n.n.e• |~7w7
2 29. 95 65 |N. £.| do.
"""thiTday"is pubushed: "
And for Sale at the Printing-Office,
No. 209, Market-Street,
and at Thomas Dobfori's Book-Store in
Second-Street,
Price Three-Eighths of a Dollar,
ADVICE
TO THE
PRIVILEGED ORDERS,
in the
SEVERAL STATES of EUROPE,
Refiilting from the neceflity and pro
priety of a General Revolution in
the Principle of Government.
By Joel Barlow, Esquire.
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. Oswalu,
(Price Ehven Pence)
FIVE LETTER S,
addressed to the
Yeomanry of the United States:
CONTAINING some Observations on tht
Scheme of Governor Duer and Mr Secreta
y Hamilton, to ertablifh National Manufactures ,
o\ a FARMER. This pamphlet, so highly in
.ereftmg at this period, may be had at the follow
ing places .* at Mr. Oswald's Printing-Office, No
1 56, Market-street j at No 209, Market-ftreeti
at Mr. Dobfon's, 4T, South Second-street; at
Mr. C ukfhanks, 91, Market-street} at Mr,
Aitk. n'sj 22, Market-street; .ind at Mr. Young's
S. W. corner of Chefnut aad
21*
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE fuolcr.Dt-r leturns his mjit rcfpcdlful
compliments to hi? friends, and the public
fu the- many favours he has received, and begs
leave to iiform them that he has upqn hand, a
few fine toned FORTE PIANOS, which he wili
warrant superior to any imported, and which he
will difpole of on reaionabte terms.
The great number of Forte Pianos lately
imported from L >ndon and Dublin, induces the
subscriber to caution the public against the artful
insinuations of persons, commiflioned to vend
them, who for a very trifling campenfation re
commcnd instruments that are nothing but the
refufe of European mufic-lhops, and imported at
a mere trifle, and fold for the fame price as a goo.;
inltrumenf, to the great dilappointrnent of the ig
norant purchaser, who generally pay as much toi
repairs in a year or two, as the original colt df a
good instrument.
N. B. Muiical instruments let out bv tlv.
month or quarter, Kkewife musical inltrumerus
tuned and repaired in the belt manner, and on the
moll reafonabl" 'errr«, bv
CHARLES TAWES,
No. do, Walnut near Tnird-ltreet.
October 10. 4t
N O T I C E.
THIS is to foiwarn all malters of veflels ano
others, at their peril, not to take a certain
mulatto Boy, named Lewis Boget, formerly ol
Cayenne, out of this citv, he being lawfully bouna
and apprenticed to m » uncill jfah Nov. 1793 .
as I have reason to fu'ped lie is endeavouring t
leave this city. JAMES ROBERTSON.
October 9. tf
New-Tori and Philadelphia
STAGES,
AND
Bordenton, Burlington, and Trenton or
Lamberton
PACK E T S.
THE proprietors of the New-York and Phi
ladelphia Land and Water Stages, beg leave
to mention, that for the better accommodation ci
;he passengers, (hey have removed their different
packet boats from their former stand, at t!
Crooked Billet Wharf, to the wharf or dock im
mediately next below Arch-ftieet ; from whenc.
a convenient packet boat ftaits /or New-York,
as usual, on every Sunday, Tuesday, Wednefdas
ind Thursday, and returns on every Tuefiav.
Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The pall'age to
be made either bv the way of Boidenton or Bur
lington ; eaah place taken alternately.
Fare for palfengers from Philadelphia to New-
York - - 15s.
For goods do. do. per cwt. 6s.
Van Emburgh and M'Kean,
David Williamfon,
Profrictor j tf t'oe hr.e of Neiu Tcrk and PbiUdel
phia Jlages, by the rout of Bordentin*
Jacob Myers,
/mos Hutchin,
Nicholas Schcnck,
Proprietors of the line of New T rk and Thiladil
] bia flaggy by the rout of Burlington.
Bordent«>n, Odt* i.
For freight or apply to the matters on
board, or to
M'Kean and Van Emburgh ;
Who have for lale at ttieir ftjie on said wharf,
immediately next bel -w Arch*ftreet,
Ole Madeira, ~j Muscovado, 1
Teneritte, and vWines. Loaf, and >Sugars
Mountain j Lump \
Jamaica Spirits, M lalTos,
Antiguay 1 Coffee,
Moniferat & >Rum. Chocoiare,
Newbury J Bohea Tea,
&ochelle Branay Burlington Pork,
in pipes, cases and Hams,
demijohns, Flour,
Gin in pijies and cases. Bar Iron, See. &c. Sic.
Orders for Grain, Staves, Bills of Scantling, 01
idler Lumoe , pundtually attended to.
For freight or pafljge to Lamberton or
Trenton, apply a' fa d wharf to Thomas Alh
"noore, Wil'iam Douglafs, John Alhmoore or
Alexander Douglafs, (Malters on board) or as
to M'Kean & Van Emburgh.
Philadelphia, October 6, 1792.
BOOKS,
Printed and fold by
MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. American Museum, from commencement.
n January 1787, to June 1792, //j eleven 'volumes
r'rice, neatly bound and lettered, Seventeen dinars
and three sis ths*
This wcrk which is tpw Cmdu&cd on an im
proved pian, containing the bej} pieces publijbe a fur
and again/} the proceedings of government, will be
found to contain at leaji as great a variety of pnl—
cica/y agricultural, andmjcellaneous cJJ'ays, a: any
tver published in Anxrica. Perhapi in no ont work
arefo many valuable documents the' tijlo
yof this count)y, c'dlefied together. "His excel
lency the Prefdent 0, the United States, de
clared of it, that li a mote ulefuj literary plan
'las never been undertaken in America, nor one
nore deserving of public encouragement." 7he
JubJcription is two dollars and a half per annum.
Gentlen.en in the country who tvijh t&bc juppUed
with this work, are requcfefl to give comrrujJi'jn to
friends in the cay to fubjeribe for and receive it.
2. Smith's tetter> to married xuoineu, on ntir/ing
and the management of chi dren. li We r eeomm > d
theje letters t. tieperujal 0/ th'fe to whom ticy a-t
particularly acidrejled.' Monthly Review, Vol. 3 ,
Pag, 101. P riie bcundfive eighths of a dollar.
Duncans elements of logic. three fourths of a
do I ar»
4. Beauties of Fielding, 50 cents.
5. beauties oj liluir, 50 ccr.ts.
6. Ladies' P. cket Library— containing :—7vljs
Mere's EJJays j Gre^ory y s Legacy j Lady Per..
■ ington s auvice ; Marchionejs of Lambert's ad
vice ; Swft s tetter to a rewly viarried ad, j
M> s. Chapcne on command of temper 3 More s fa
bles for the ladic: Price 6/6.
7» Smith's History of New-York. Price a dol
lar and a quarter.
7> Elements of" Moral Science, by James Eeat
tie, 1.1.d. profefjor of moral pbilcfophy and logic
in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen—Price three
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Crit'ual Re
viewers (vol. 69. p. 628 J Jay : " IVe have seen
nothing on these fubjeSis more plain, more perjpicu
us, or more genera ly uj'eful, y '
9. Beauties of P otti\ t Pricc four fifths of a
dollar,
10. Blair's Sermons,-- Price two dollars,
11. Neckar's Treatise on the importance of reli
gious opinions. Price four fifths of a dollar.
12 Examination of the objervations of Lord Shef
field cn American Commerce• Price, on very fine
paper, five eighths of a dollar,
13. Toe Con/iitutions of the fe-veral United States ,
with the federal Conflitution } (Sfc. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14 M'Fingal, Price three eighths of a dollar,
15. American [eft Book, three fifths of a
hilar-,
16. Garden of the Soul, half a dollar,
17-. The Douay Tranfiation of the Vulgate Bi
ble, in qn trto• Price, elegantly bound and lettered,
5 Qfi—J,. ain, fx dollars-
Said Garev has for fait, a large aff(.rtment of
books, European as well as American editions,
which he will dispose of on '-he mop reajr.nabic terms,
Country gentlemen, who favor him with commands,
may depend upon being Jvppiud in the mo J} fatisfac
dry wanner. A ii'lfera. allowance to such as pur
chase quantities for public libraries, or to fell again.
May 17. 6m.la.vv.
,
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale by the Printer,
John M'Culloch, atNo, 1. North Third-
Street, and by mod of the Book-
Sellers in this city,
(Price 3/9)
MODERN CHIVALRY:
Containing the
Adventures of Capt. John Farrago,
and
Teague O'Regan,
his Servant.
VOLUME 11.
By H. H. BR AC KEN RIDGE.
Quicquid agurit Mmim ncjlii, Farragd libdli.
juvena
Terres a Vendre
Dars un pa'is lien peuple\—
S AVOIR, loixante cinq xnilie, trois cens, foix
ante et quatdize Acres, en une fe®le piece,
,;ans le canton le mieux people de la Caroline Me
ridioaale, leDiftiiftdfc Ninety-Six. Ces terre3
font fituees dans u*ne contrce agrcable, et falubre,
ou les tievre* font inconnuesj a environ vingt lieue3
ile Colombie, la Capitale, et contigues ala ville
de Cambridge, ©u il y a College, et Cour fuperi
eure» A environ tlouze Jicues, iJy a bonne navi
gation 5 et il eft tres rrobable, que dans queique
Jemson navigable le Grand Saludc, riviers
qui avrofe les tevres memes. EMes font agreable
men? diveiiiflees oe CoteauX ec vailons charmar.s*
propres a ia culture du tabac, ou coton, du mail
et du petit yrain \ *t dont une proportion consider
able le ptiut aifcrtient convertir en prairies fertile!,
il n'eft peuc-chre gueres poflible de rencontrer un®
pareilie piece de terre 4 vendre dans aucun autre
v!C' E-ats Unis 5 et pour les conditions de l'achat p
on les rendra tres commodes.
S'informer a i'imprimerie de la Gazette Na
tionals. Sept. 5.
LANDS for SALE,
TM a well fettled Country. SIXTV-FIVE
1 THOUSAND THREE FUNDRED AND
SEVENTY FOtJR ACRES OF LAND, in one
bodkin the molt papulous part of the state of
South-Carolina, in theoilhift ofNinety-fix—lt
is fiuated in a si ne healthy clima f, free from fevei"
ague,about iixty miles from Columbia, the feat
ol government. The land is contiguous to the
cown of Cambridge, where are a feminarv for the
inftruftion of youth, and a fuptriorlaw court. It
is at present within about thirty-five miles of good
navigation, with a prob ability f >t" having the river,
cal.ed the Great Saluda, that flows along one fide
of the land, made naviga'oie. The land is beauti
fully diversified into swells and vales, and is per
fectly well calculated far the 1 ' culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and frnaM grain ; a great
proportion of it may be made meadow ground.
There is not, perhaps, loch a body of land, focii
cumftanced, for sale in any oth s erof the U; States.
The terms of payment will be made convenient ta
the.purchaser or purchalifib. Apply to the Printer.-
Augult 29. Jawtf
*Three handsome Editions of the Laws
of the United o 'Uiles for sale at this office
(No. 209 Market street) in folio and ofta
either full or half bound—N.B, The
JLaws of the lafl Sfjion, in oclavo only, may
be had fefaratey price three eighths of a dollar %
PLANS
OF THE CITY OF WASHINGTON.
FOR SALE BY
MESSRS. Dobfon, Young, Cru!dhank, and J
Carey, in ihis city.
Sept. 15. 6t.
PRINTED B3T
C H I L D S and S WAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE *0.209, HIGH-STREET,
I*' EA R FIFTH ITRLETj
f HILAD .LPtilA»j